 

\X/omcn’s Soccer off to

Check out Homecoming _
rousing start

events in our supplement

f U112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlii

VOLUME 94, NO. 4

CD

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA SEPTEMBER 30, 1994

J.

, Tear Night brings drunks, arrests

A One of Sigma Phi Epsilon’s 15 pledges tears on Saturday. There

 

Photo by Daniel Tipton, special to’ The Ring-tum Phi
were 23 student arrests during the course

 

of the evening, and five students were admitted to StonewallJackson hospital for alcohol related injuries.
This year’s shorter Rush was generally favored by upperclass students .

Bludworth identifies aspects
of SCC needing to be fixed

  

 

By JESSICA ANTONICH
Phi Staff Writer

Tear night: Washington and
Lee’s biggest night of debauch-
ery is ﬁnally over.

Unfortunately, some did not
make it through unscathed. The
inﬁrmary reported that although
the alcohol related incidents they
see now are not as bad as
they used to be, the number
is increasing.

Over the weekend they treated
approximately twelve students
who were either there because of
alcohol induced states or from
injuries received while drinking.
Only one student had to be taken
to the hospital. Four students went
directly to the emergency room
instead of going to the
infirmary ﬁrst.

On the legal front, Washing-
ton and Lee Security reported that
23 students were arrested over the
weekend by the seven Lexington
Police Department officers and
eight Alcohol Beverage Control
officers on duty.

These arrests ranged from be-
ing drunk in public to noise viola-
tions to urinating in public.

ABC agents also seized 13
cases of beer purchased for a mi-
nor by a 21 year-old student. The
minor received a minor in posses-

sion and the 21 year-old received
a contributing to the delinquency
of a minor.

Mike Young, Director of
W&L Security, says that there
seems to have been more alco-
hol consumed this year, but the
level of arrests remained the
same as in previous years.

“We shouldn’t have anybody
arrested over this weekend, but
it still happens every year,” says
Young.

How was tear night for the
students? Most freshmen had
expected it to be a lot wilder
than it actually was. Scott Wein
said that it wasn’t as bad as he
had thought it would be. Ac-
cording to him, most of his
pledge class just got drunk early
and passed out.

Todd Ellingson seemed to
agree with this statement, but
called it the “best time he
couldn’t remember having.”
Matt O’Brien said that it was a
“wonderfulconclusiontoaweek
of worry and anticipation” where
he “spilled his guts to his broth-
ers — literally.”

Gordon Meeker told a story
many people can relate to about
his friend getting arrested. Ap-
parently his friend was drunk in
public. The next morning when
he was picked up from the po-
lice station, his friend “thought

it was really cool that he had
been arrested.”

Aside from the drunken
events, most freshmen agreed that
the brothers were rather nice dur-
ing tear night.

One freshman reports that the
brothers repeatedly told them that

‘it was their night and they should
enjoy themselves. Another fresh-
man said, “The brothers were
really cool; they didn’t force us
to do anything we didn’t want
to do.”

Now that tear night is over,
how do people feel about this
year’s Rush calendar? Dean Man-
ning feels that this year’s Rush
was more competitive and selec-
tive. Typically, approximately

_90% of the freshman males enter
Rush. This year there were 258
men in the class with 248 men
entering Rush. Thirty three fresh-
man who rushed did not tear at
any house.

Manning says that he has
heard favorable comments about
the shortened Rush.

He also commends Kevin
Batteh, president of the IFC, for
managing Rush and taking time
to help individual freshmen with
their problems concerning the
entire Rush process.

Mark Crider, Rush Chair of

to See TEAR, page 8

Cable 2 News
gets upgrades

By JENNIFER LATHAM

in the order that we want,” said Albert. “(There will
be) somebody speaking on the newscast, and when

_ Phi Staff write’ it’s time for the package, we just push ‘play’ on the
By BETHANY BAUMAN from break‘ °h3"ma"- Bludworth personally got in- _ high-8 tape player. Then when it’s done, we go
phi Staff Writer "18 PTOPCHY ,Th° °°m‘ volved with the SCC two years The Studio Ofcable Chamlel Zcantnow P’°d}’°" back to the anchors, just like a real newscast.”
9’ Verbal 35‘ mm“ hears ago while serving as sophomore 5h°W5°°mPa1’3bl°‘0th°5° °fPr°f°55‘°“al5t"d1°5a Senior Cathy Gartin, production manager for
53"“ 07 an)“ on average class president. thanks *0 Salelllwfed news and 3 new 591 Cable 2, agrees that CNN footage will add profes-
Between the honor violations thing up to twenty cases He says ho remains active in Video footage and sound bites from CNN in sionalism to the newscasts
of lying, cheating, and stealing actual physi- per year, the committee because, “i just Atlanta can now come to W&L via a satellite uwotll be able to have the story, then ‘so..and-so
that are managed by the Execu— cal assault.” most of enjoy npholdingtho traditions of hookup. Sound bites are short statements taken said this,’ and have that sound bite come up, and
tiV¢ Commiﬁee, andthe iﬂsiaﬂces The 0010' Whicths 3°‘ W&Land I feel like (gentlemanly from audio OT Vide° MP“ to be insened into “CW5 then go back to the story,” Gartin said. “It’ll be a lot
of sexual assault attended to by pletely stu- cording to conduct) is something that’s re- broadcasts. Although W&L pays for the satellite more realistic)’
the Student Faculty Hearing dent admin- Bludworth, ally important at w&L and 1 hookup, CNN sends footage to colleges at no The sophistication ofsound bites is one ofmtmy
Board, lies a vast expanse of un- istered SCC “ . . . involve think that somebody needs to additional cost. The Leybum Library receives col- benefits of receiving CNN news packages Cable 2
gentlemanly conduct for which is composed stupid things uphold it_n lectionsoffootage, known as packages, by satellite can now also use voioo_ovets in which an
students at W&L need to be held of the presi- people have This year Bludworth, who is at 9:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. daily. A machine called anohorporson may describe a scene in video foot-
accountable. dents and . . done When also a dorm oounsoiort active fra- a high-8 recorder tapes the footage so Cable 2 can ago as it appears
According ‘O its Chairman: Vice PT°5i' t h e Y ’ ‘' ° ternity member, and part of the “S9 it Aside from voice-overs, Cable 2 may now also
senior Whitney Bludworth, the dents from Bludworth drum‘-” Interfratemity Council, has iden- 3°Ul0T Chris Albells Pfoglam dlfectol f0’ Cable use the sound that comes with video footage. in the
Student Conduct Committee ex- each under- Bludworth til-iod two problems that he would 2, said the process for accessing CNN news is time— past’ Cable 2 used only video footage from tapes of

ists to bridge the gap between
these two extremes, claiming that,
“(the SCC) covers everything

graduate class, the presidents
from each of the law school
classes, and a separately elected

cites the freshmen as the worst
offenders of gentlemanly
conduct.

Catherine
Robb visits
campus

D See SCC, page 8

By ALEX CHRISTENSEN
Phi Staff Writer

night.

various issues.

issues and education.

nel Oliver North.

Catherine Robb, daughter of Senator
Chuck Robb and granddaughter of
former President Lyndon Johnson, was
the guest of honor at a reception held by
the College Democrats Wednesday

About thirty-ﬁve students came and
went during the evening.

Much of the event was informal. Ms.
Robb met with attendees and discussed
the campaign and Robb’s positions on

Midway through, Ms. Robb gave a
short speech, stressing involvement and
urging young people to vote, regardless
of party. She also presented Robb’s vot-
ing record and positions on women’s

“When you think that this person will
be taking us into the twenty-ﬁrst century
— that’s really scary,” said Ms. Robb,
referring to her father’s Republican op-
ponent, former Marine lieutenant colo-

Ms. Robb again took questions after
the speech, defending her father’s posi-
tions on crime and the Crime Bill and his
vote to confirm Justice Clarence Tho-
mas to the Supreme Court. She called

consuming but worth the effort.

“We’ll go through and take what we want and
edit it from one high-8 tape to another hi gh-8 tape

ECDE

I» See CABLE, page 9

B911

<I)K‘I’

CDKE

Graph by Phil Carrott, The Ring-tum Phi

1993

1994

The Snag

I» See Robb, page 9

The fraternities wrapped up rush on Saturday with Tear Night. The pledge classes tended
to be more even this year than last year. The biggest class was Sigma Alpha Epsilon with
2 1 pledges and the smallest was Chi Psi with seven. The outer circle is this year’s graph and
the inner circle of the graph is last year ’s snag .

 

PAQE 2

THE BLUE RIDGE
AND BEYOND ‘

 

The World

Clinton pushes for more troops 
Herzegovina

President Clinton pressed the United Nations to add forces to its
peacekeeping efforts already in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The UN has hesi-
tated to increase its forces in the area, in spite of the Serbs’ recent cutting
off of power and water to the Bosnian capital and ﬁring on UN observers.
NATO has taken some minor military actions, such as the bombing of an
unmanned tank last week.

Indian plague may have killed 300

The plague spreading through India may have killed up to 300 people.
Though the plague can be treated with common drugs, pharmacies in India
are running out of the antibiotics, while some are selling them at black
market prices. An estimated 400,000 people have ﬂed since the plague
struck India a week ago.

Jordan renounces West Bank claim

Jordan renounced its religious claim to the West Bank on Tuesday to
avoid further conﬂict with the PLO. In a statement issued by its prime
minister, Jordan relieved hundreds of employees of religious sites in the
West Bank, but maintained its spiritual link with the city of Jerusalem.

First U.S. soldier dies in Haiti

The ﬁrst U.S. soldier to die in Haiti was killed apparently by his own
hand. The body of a soldier whose name has not been released was found
shot to death. The death is being investigated as an apparent suicide. U.S.
marines killed eight Haitians when confronted by a group of armed men
outside a city police station Saturday. So far, the U.S. has taken Haiti's
military and parliament without resistance.

Yeltsin arrives in Washington this week

Russian President Boris Yeltsin arrived in Washington this week to
meet with President Clinton. This is their ﬁfth of 20 such meetings. The
two leaders discussed the war in Bosnia and Russian arms sales to Iran.
Also being discussed are business deals between the two nations. The U.S.
promised $525 billion in ﬁnancing investments in Russia. Talks this week
are expected to up the investment to $1 billion.

The Nation

   

 =.~.
Health care dead for this term of Congress

Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell officially laid the issue of
health care to rest Monday. Congress will not pursue one of President
Clinton’s greatest goals of national health care reform any further this year.
Clinton and other democrats vowed to resurrect the issue in Congress next
year.

Search for Simpson jury begins

The search began Tuesday for 12 people who can fairly try O.J.
Simpson on murder charges. Prospective jurors received a preliminary
questionnaire warning them the trial may last up to six months and that
jurors may be sequestered. After 119 prospective jurors were excused,
Judge Lance Ito gave the remaining 97 a more in-depth, 75 page question-
naire. The judge wants to pick the jurors from a pool of 250.

College tuition rises faster than inﬂation

College tuition is growing faster than the inﬂation rate according to
ﬁgures released Tuesday from the College Board. The average tuition at
four-year colleges rose 6 percent, or twice the inﬂation rate. Average
tuition for four-year private schools is $11,709 and $2686 for four-year
public schools. Other statistics show that colleges are spending more on
public relations, marketing, and fund-raising instead of on instruction,
libraries, and maintenance.

Mays recants testimony of sexually abuse

Kimberly Mays, the teenager switched at birth, recanted her testimony
Monday that the man who has raised her, Robert Mays, sexually molested
her for years. Kimberly spent six years in a custody battle between her
biological parents and Mays. A judge granted her wish in August 1993 to
sever ties with her biological family. She later ran away from Mays’ home
to a shelter. Kimberly may face a charge of ﬁling a false police report
against Mays.

The State

Opinion of Proposal X divided along racial
lines

Whites and blacks are divided on Proposal X, Governor George Allen’s
plan to abolish parole. A Roanoke poll found that 58 percent of whites
favored the plan, while 57 percent of blacks opposed it. Black Legislative
Caucus leaders say Allen’s plan provokes fear in white Virginians. The
General Assembly resumed debate Tuesday on the issue

The Campus

Three houses lose Homecoming bands

Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta, and Pi Kappa Alpha all received a week
of social probation because of Tear Night noise violations. This means that
the houses will not be able have band parties or any other type of parties
over Homecoming weekend. As for their scheduled bands, the house must
either find another house willing to pick up the band or just cancel them.
The social probation ends on this coming Tuesday.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily
Baker.

 

 

And they’re off!

The Foxfield Races were  past Sunday. Because it was the day after Tear Night, fewer W&L students attended than
normal. Those who d1d rise early enough to get there enjoyed six fine races and near perfect weather. Students also
tailgated in typical W&L fashion. Students from many other area schools including University of Virginia, Hampden
Sydney, _ Virginia Polytechnic University, and James Madison University were in attendance. The Student Bar
Assoclatlon of Washington and Lee’s Law School reportedly took two bus-loads of students.

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, l& k

    

File Photo

  

Edward Cleary speaks on campus)

about freedom of expression

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

The lawyer who successfully de-
fended a cross burner visited campus
this past Monday.

Edward Cleary, the St. Paul, Min-
nesota Public Defender who defended
the juvenile Robert A. Victoria in the
R.A.V. case before the Supreme Court
spoke at the Law School in the Moot
Courtroom ‘on September 26. The
R.A.V. case involved a minor who had
placed a burning cross on the front
lawn ofa black couple who had moved
into a all white suburb. Instead of being
charged under trespassing, vandalism,
and terrorist threat laws, he was charged
under the Bias Disorderly Conduct
Ordinance, passed in 1982. This law
prohibited any kind of speech or action
that “upset, angered, or irritated” any-
one. This was, in Cleary’s mind, a clear
violation of the First Amendment. He
decided to ﬁght for the overturning of
the law. He succeeded in January, 1992.

Cleary did want to make it clear that
he thought the action his client com-
mitted was “heinous.” He was also
frustrated that the prosecutor “decided
to make a political statement” by using
the hate speech law rather than slap-
ping Victoria with a felony prosecu-

said that we must protect the fringes of
free speech in order to protect the core
of it. This means protecting such ac-
tivities as the burning of a cross or an
American ﬂag, as offensive as we may
find them, according to Cleary.

“I feel that the Court was well ahead
of many legal scholars,” when they
overturned the speech code, said Cleary.
He said the censorship of one topic can
become enforced silence and it must be
stopped before it happens.

Cleary said, “racism and
homophobia are wrong but the
govemment’s role in changing those
views is limited.” Cleary would have
the people change these viewpoints
through education and understanding,
as long as the ability to express these
views is not limited.

Cleary was randomly assigned the
case one morning while doing cases for
indigent youth. “There are those who
feel I should have slept in,” he said.

portion of the talk, Politics professor
Mark Rush questioned if we should
ever allow government to determine
what kind of speech was threatening or
harmful and should be prohibited, be-
cause we allow the government to de-

Cleary

termine what other kinds of actions are
harmful and should be prohibited.
Cleary felt that we should never trust

During the question and answer '

tion.

Cleary, who recently published Be-
yond TheBurning Cross, a book about
the case, felt that the case was essen-
tially “political correctness on trial.”
He said the case was especially impor-
tant because it headed off a trend of

speech codes spreading across the coun-
try. The Supreme Court must have also
felt something needed to be done about
speech codes because of the 91 cases
asking for an appeal to the Supreme
Court at the time, the Justices took only
the R.A.V. case, according to Cleary.

Cleary said “we (often) confuse free
expression with threatening conﬂict.
This confusion is why Cleary felt the
law must be overturned. He said we
could not allow government to outlaw
speech and expression that is offensive
because of its subject matter. Cleary

government with the Bill of Rights and
“we can’t trust the majority to decide
what’s harmful,” lest they prohibit
speech they do not want to deal with.
“If government gets into (censor-
ship and politically correct thought),
we are in danger, serious danger.”

IFC plans for
Homecoming

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

Members of the lnterfratemity Council met on
Tuesday to discuss Homecoming ’94 and
other topics.

With the arrival of Homecoming this weekend,
IFC President Kevin Batteh reviewed fraternity guide-
lines for a responsible weekend. Representatives of
the thirteen fraternities present were reminded to
pick up permits for their respective parties at the
Lexington Police Station, and to registertheir parties
at the Dean of Students’ ofﬁce.

In addition, each fraternity is expected to follow
such practices as providing a guest list, designating
a sober ofﬁcer, and offering alternative beverages
for those not drinking alcohol this weekend.

Batteh further cautioned brothers to “keep an
eye” out for excessive drinking on the part of both
fraternity pledges and alumni caught in the excite-
ment ofliomecoming and eager to create new memo-
ries or recapture old ones.

On another note, Habitat for Humanity co—founder
Jackie VanVliet addressed the fraternity representa-
tives about the organization’s goal for each graduat-
ing class to build a house for a needy family in
Lexington. Halfway to their goal for this year, they
still need $5000 and any fraternity contributions
could make a crucial difference. Batteh encourages
all houses to participate in this project.

Dean of Students David Howison expressed his

desire for the IFC members turn their attentions to
“the freshman who wanted bids” but due to a variety
of reasons did not receive one. He encouraged any
fraternity interested in expanding its pledge class to
work with him. To this end, a list of those men who
participated in Rush, but did not receive a bid is
currently being prepared.

Finally, a Coca-Cola representative offered the
company’s services in bringing Coke products to the
fraternity houses. Pepsi is currently the only soda
available at W&L facilities. Plans are already under-
way, however, to replace Pepsi with a Coke fountain
at the Sigma Chi house.

CRC report
with Wilson

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

The long awaited results of the Coeducation Re-
view Committee’s report are almost ready for public
disclosure.

The committee put the results of its year-long
study into President John Wilson’s hands last Friday.
It will be available to the public after Wilson reads it
and decides how best to present it to the community.

“We asked that he make it available to the com-
munity by putting a copy of it on reserve in the
library,” said committee co-chair Pamela Simpson,
Professor of Art History. “But it’s his prerogative
how he goes about doing it.”

Wilson commissioned the group of both students
and faculty “to look at the university and its opera-

tions and determine how coeducation had changed
us,” said Simpson.

“When we first looked at this thing, we were
absolutely overwhelmed,” she said. But much like a
student at the beginning of a new term, she added,
“We saw we had to take it one step at a time and break
it down into different tasks.”

Thus the study was divided into categories of
admissions, academics, athletics, student life (which
was subdivided into smaller categories of housing,
security, social life, and political life), faculty and
administration, and community opportunities.

The committee met with different departments
and student groups, such as Admissions, the Minority
Students Association, the Executive Committee, and
the Women’s Forum. The committee also solicited
results from the student body, but was disappointed
with the number of responses, Simpson said.

After all the research was completed, it was com-
piled into a 196 page report.

Though not yet at liberty to disclose the results,
Simpson did report that “we conﬁrmed that coeduca-
tion has improved the university, and we identiﬁed
some problem areas. We hope that one of the results
of this study is that these problem areas will be dealt
with.”

  

1
A

.45

Y’ain’t from around here, are ya?

 

photo by W. Patrick Hinely

From left, direction Eva Sereny, author Philippe Labro, and actor Marco Hofschneider on the Washington and Lee campus during the

ﬁlming of the Foreign Student in May 1993.The ﬁlm opens at the State Theater on Friday.

Courtney Love rocks Crossroads C

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

Courtney Love and her band Hole whipped
re crowd into a frenzy on Tuesday at their
row at the Crossroads Concert Hall.

Hole play at the club formerly known as
rax as part of their East coast tour. Two of my
atemity brothers and I decided to go to the
row at 2 p.m. Tuesday afternoon. We got a late
zart because one of our group had to attend the
ring quartet concert at the Lenfest Center for
music class. We hit the road around 10 p.m. in
n old RX-7 with no back seat. That meant one
f us had to lie in the hatch. I now know how
ncomfortable riding in the hatch of a RX-7 can
e.

Upon arriving in Charlottesville, we
Ianaged to get lost. All this time, we kept
raying that we would not miss any of Hole’s
:t. We ﬁnally got directions from some guys in

low rider at McDonald’s and made it to
Yrossroads. As we walked inside we were met
'ith Nine Inch Nails’ Downward Spiral album.
ortunately, Hole had not started yet. We did,
owever, miss the opening act, Madder Rose.

As we mingled in the back of the club, we
iscussed the chance of Hole covering some
Iirvana songs. It seemed possible. The stage
>oked like a typical moderate budget punk
rage: big amps and a decent sized drum kit. On
)p of the amps were a bunch of plastic dolls
nd other stuffed animals. We guessed that
fourtney had something twisted planned for
re toys.

About ten or ﬁfteen minutes after eleven,

Ciel.»

er ‘V1.2

By KIRK SusoNG
Phi Movie Reviewer

The Color ofNight — {kt} 1/2

The Color of Night was a refreshing sur-
prise, which, though heavy on the psycho-
analysis, creates moods and atmospheres with
relish.

Willis plays Dr. Bill Capa, a successful New
York psychologist. However, after he tosses
off a harsh comment, a suicidal patient jumps
out his ofﬁce window in front of his eyes. He is
extremely traumatized (the sight of her blood
makes him color-blind to red), so he quits his
job and goes to Los Angeles to visit an old
college buddy.

Scott Bakula portrays that friend and fellow
psychologist, Dr. Bob Moore. But things are
not so rosy at Bob’s practice either.

Dr. Moore holds sessions of group therapy
for ﬁve wackos: Sandra, a nymphomaniac and
a kleptomaniac all in one; Buck, whose wife
and daughter died violently; Casey, a snide

' molested artist; Richie, a violent, stuttering boy

who wishes he were a girl; and a buttoned-
down lawyer who’s an obsessive compulsive
about cleanliness and order.

One of these ﬁve is making death threats

Hole took the stage. Love set the tone for the
night when she grabbed the microphone and
said, “Good evening. We’re Flock of Seagulls.”
Hole then released a barrage of noise. We could
not recognize the ﬁrst song, but the second one
was “Beautiful Son” from the DGC Rarities,
Volume 1 album. The lyrics of this song show
why Hole is not a widely popular band on
campus:

You look good in my dress.

Get your friends to clean the mess.

You look good in my clothes.

...My beautiful son.

For those unfamiliar with Hole’s music, the
majority of it tends to have a very fast chorus
with a slower verse. This lent itself well to the
crowd’s desire to mosh. My only problem with
the mosh pit was that it was not really a mosh
pit. Instead, it was a lot of people bouncing up
and down and pushing forward towards the
stage. I was able to move within ﬁve feet of the
stage by pressing through the people standing
in the back and shoving my way through the
bouncing throngs.

Most of the songs were from Live Through
This, Hole’s new album, and tended to be fairly
true to the studio versions. The band ripped
through incredible versions of “Violet” and
“Rock Star.” They also performed a poignant
version of “Miss World.” During “Asking For
It,” Love seemed ready to explode with anger.
Love’s strong feelings on women’s rights were
very evident during “Asking For It,” a song that
deals with rape. Her lyrics tore apart the typical
male defense that “she was asking for it:”

Was she asking for it?

Was she asking nice?

Did she ask you for it?

Did she ask you twice?

Several other songs did not sound familiar at

all and may have been from
Hole’s ﬁrst album. The last
song of the set was a new
song which had a lot to do
with death and loneliness. We
assumed that itwas written
sometime after Love’s hus-
band, Kurt Cobain of N irvana,
killed himself last April. Love
also made reference to Cobain
when she put on a ﬂannel
shirt that had been thrown onto
the stage. She said, “Grunge
is dead. I killed it and now I
have a little black hole in my
heart for it.” She then played
one song, took the shirt off,
and threw it to the ground.
Several times throughout
the show, either Love or the
new bassist identiﬁed only as
“Michelle from Quebec” who
replaced Kristen Pfaff, Hole’s
original bassist who over-

 

oncert Hall

 

dosed on drugs, grabbed a doll
and threw them to the audience.

The dolls were immediately torn to pieces.
Two guys standing right in front of me had the
head of one, but could not agree on who should
get it.

They asked me to flip a coin for them in the
midst of the mosh pit to determine who would
keep the head. I did, and the loser relinquished
the head to the winner. They then went their
separate ways. It was amazing to see such
understanding the middle of all that mosh pit
aggression.

Love also displayed a razor wit when one
male memberof thecrowd criedout, “Courtney,
give me head.” She turned to the crowd and

explained her sexually frustration was evident
in the one cigarette per song she was smoking.
She then said, “So I’ve decided to get it all out
right now, and you are the lucky guy. Yeah,
right!”

As part of the encore, Hole played one verse
of Duran Duran’s “Hungry Like A Wolf.” After
the ﬁrst verse, Love said, “We played that too
well.” A pumped up, fast version of “Plump”
from Live Through This, wrapped up the en-
core. Then they turned on the overhead lights
and it was over.

The energy and intensity of the show made
it well worth the $11.50 ticket price. Besides,
Hole is just a cool band.

ilel: well Filmed; well

against the good Dr.
Moore, and shortly
into the movie, he is
found dead at his of-
fice, stabbed thirty-
eight times.

So, the assigned
police officer,
Martinez, played re-

yourself.”

The Rating Scale

7Q’i‘r'i3r7’lr - Go buy this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an instant classic.
“You’ll laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something about

ikririr - Go see this film now, while it’s still on the big screen. It’s worth a few
Oscar nominations and the seven bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside
Lexington. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

overt sexuality sim-
ply detracts from the
dramatic content of
a work. That is the
case with The Color
of Night, which
originally drew an
NC-17 rating before
being toned down.

markably well by - - - Even toned
Ruben Blades, mes to trek - Okay, so there have been better films. Nevertheless, it is a good ezfample down, Ofcourseﬁhe
pumpjnformatjon and of its genre, and you should probably see it on videotape. Still, probably Better movie Still Spends

professional opinions than Cats!”
out of Capa about the
group, even though the
doctor has known
them for only a few
days.

And, despite
Capa’s own trauma
and recent arrival, the

7’): - It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off tomorrow’s reading.
Although your time would probably be better served on your education, its free
and you’re bored, so go ahead and watch it.
@ - Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed harder, trust

me, this one sucks. Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste it on this.

(There’s always MTV.)

much footage on
Bruce Willis and
Jane March swim-
ming nude, shower-
ing together, etc.
They are languor-
ous and beautiful
shots, but those
scenes simply

group persuades him
to take over the therapy
sessions. As a result Capa ﬁnds himself trying
to unravel a very confusing and dangerous ball
of thread as he probes the minds of the patients.

— But wait! There’s even more! A seemingly
random fender bender leads Capa into a roman-
tic relationship with a mysterious woman named
Rose (Jane March) who comes and goes with-
out telling him a thing, and whose features are
so intense they become caricatures of beauty.
As you might guess, this mystery woman be-

comes the linchpin to the movie’s very sketchy
lot.

P There are two big flaws in this movie. One
is the absurd sexual content. Apparently Holly-
wood has gotten the idea that sex will necessar-
ily contribute to a ﬁlm, thanks, no doubt, to
successful ﬁlms which used sex as a focal
point, like Basic Instinct, 9 I /2 Weeks or even
Like Water for Chocolate.

Unfortunately, in most films, poorly done,

lessen the psycho-
logical intensity and
dramatic tension which the rest of the movie
works so hard to establish.

The other great ﬂaw in the movie is the very
sketchy plot. When the movie is over, it is clear
what happened, but we are not at all sure why.
What would make someone act like the charac-
ters do in this ﬁlm? Although the dialogue is
good, the notions underlying the script are
shaky.

One reason for this is that the whole ﬁlm

 

PAGE 3

Love defined:
Ackerman

tells all

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Romeo and Juliet. Aeneas and Dido.
Michael Jackson and Lisa Marie Presley. What
do they have in common? They’ve all been
touched by the magical, irresistible, insa-
tiable potion of love. Love makes men fumble
for words and makes women’s hearts ﬂutter
with nervous anticipation. Love provides both
calm and calamity in our lives; yet, we would
not be human without it. Throughout the ages,
man has struggled with this basic question:
What is love? Diane Ackennan provides some
interesting answers in her book, A Natural
History of Love.

Ackerman takes the reader on a wonderful
journey through time and explores different
cultures to better understand the mystery and
the attraction of love. She starts with Cleopatra
( immortalized by Elizabeth Taylor) and her
status as the ultimate love goddess. She
chronicles her love affair with Antony. From
there she explores Egyptian love poems and
how they perceived love in all of their art. She
traces love even in the rampant homosexual-

ity in Ancient Greece and Rome. In these
ancient cultures, love manifested itself in
strange ways. For instance, the penis became
a symbol of love; people often wore phallic
symbols around their necks or surrounded
their houses with them. She shows the reader
the joys and the tragedies of love in the stories
of Romeo and Juliet; Abelard and Heloise;
Aeneas and Dido; and Orpheus and Eurydice.
In each story, love leads to the suicide of the
lovers. Ackerman shows how love causes
both pain and pleasure, both joy and sorrow.

One of the most interesting things I learned
was the idea of courtly love. This occurred in
the medieval ages of Lancelots and damsels in
distress. In this scenario the woman had the
power. The woman would allow the knight to
court her and woo her. The knight could even
look upon her nakedness and even engage in
sexual intercourse. Yet, it was more of a game
where the woman had the upperhand. Usu-
ally, inﬂuential and educated women engaged
in this creative adultery, which is remarkable
considering the anti-woman sentiments cus-
tomary for this period. The theologian Tho-
mas Aquinas considered women “defective
and misbegotten.”

She compares the rampant escapades of
the world’s greatest lovers, Don Juan and
Casanova. Ackerman analyzes Casanova’s
promiscuous behavior as resulting from his
mother’s desertion while Don Juan was sim-
ply a cold—hearted aristocrat. She even dis-
cusses one of our Founding Fathers, Ben-
jamin Franklin who was also quite a woman-
rzer.

She further explores the ideas of Aristotle,
Freud, Jung, and psychologists in order to
ﬁgure out why love is so important to us. Why
do women feel such a connection to horses?
Why do men feel such a attachment to their
cars? What role does hair play in this on-
going struggle with love? Throughout the
book she attempts to answer these questions
and more.

In her exploration of love, Ackennan writes
with deft and clever strokes. She brings a
certain freshness to her writing. Her insights
about love in all of its forms, whether it be
romantic or simply altruistic, ring true. She
struggles with the basic issues that ultimately
make us human. Why is love such a scary
thing? Why is man so cruel? She tackles them
with such keen intelligence and sharp wit that
one is never left bored. From Aphrodite to
Madonna, she leaves the readerwith a greater
understanding of what love is.

written

deals with psychologically confused characters
— but this is part of the movie’s attraction.

The pace of the ﬁlm is almost perfect: there
wasn’t a moment when the ﬁlm lost my atten-
tion, but it refrained from being hurried. The
director, Richard Rush, does an excellent job of
exploiting the paranoia and drama inherent in
the characters and the situation.

A good example is the scene where Capa,
unable to see the color red, is unaware that he is
standing in a pool of blood. The director shows
us the pool in a neutral color, so we don’t know
it’s blood, either. Finally, the pool turns from
black to red when Capa realizes it’s blood, and:
the audience becomes aware at the same time,
and in the same way, as the character does.

Overall, the movie was very reminiscent of

Alfred Hitchcock’s movies (right down to the.
climactic ﬁnal scene, where the female lead
tries to leap from a tower, a la Vertigo). Whereas;
Hitchcock explores the sordid and terrifying.‘
minds of seemingly normal people (eg, Rear’
Window), Richard Rush here explores blatantly .

abnonnal people.

The result is less powerful, but nevertheless
impressive. The film reminded me very much.

of such recent thrillers asshatteredz well-ﬁlmed,

decent enough acting, and a plot with an in-I
triguing twist or two that will keep you inter-I
ested. This is deﬁnitely worth a trip to the dollar 1
theatre or the video store, and, if you (like me) i
are a fan of Bruce Willis, perhaps also to the:

State Cinema.

 

  

PAGE 4

 

NON QUITUK

BY

  
 
     
   

       
    
  
  
 

\\IlL'-:;’[/:9/974 wen. Poef wR\T22s 92:09 1.21 1 v 1

Li

ME

  

l 31*; 
R   if:

\

 

   
  

 

   
 

  
 

‘h , ‘\-
ELLEN ‘?E\<tEcTs we mg.
EARLY RRRMNR ;*<q:;N\
r  \ 4. .\ 
J\l\<\§\’KL\DENCE   ‘(E4.‘(°\\K l\°NoK.\NE um: :43 
R 4» N\w\Eé.-- “ft ‘*1   “  E



_.n:____, -s_~.-—.._-_;«.: ;TM'\°N\DENT\F\CKV\°N:--

—j ”?j“j"a’
‘W ' IILTII
T l
 | I
/r._—‘«  1 4*‘
1 .0 lllllll
J
m’
‘J K‘\
 -R xg
/e)/;.  g3;1_y3

" ' " new TPN cure. DEAR?
Tl-\\'-Y‘RE E\I<>Lv\NE mo A

\‘ “
cN\L\ZED é.oC\E'\’Y... "

/‘

0/974 \NI>$HlPK—;1’oN ®5\' NR\’\"a‘=% @200?

Washington and Lee :
Public Interest Law
Students Association

a First Monday Conference
Monday, Oct. 3rd 12:00 - 1:30 p.m.

Moot Court Room, Lewis Hall
Pizza will be served

Panel Discussion to Follow

Those interested in Public Interest
Law should attend

Fall Mountain Bike Specials

Diamond Back Ascent: ‘94 list price $579 IEXWETUN
full STX group, beautiful emerald black: 
Save $100, now $479 
Cannondale M300 : ‘94 list price $479
aluminum handbuilt frame : Save $80 now $399 . f,?:,‘,‘,'§',{’ 
'* Gin t0 Sale 8: Service
Trek 850 : double butted chromemoly frame, . p5¢|;.up E ogliygfy Available
front suspension, ‘93 list price $629, ' 430390“ 3393 5 93¢”
save $130; now $499 Hours MOI1 - Fri 9 -5 381 9 - Noon
130 South Main St. A

OFFER Goon ON IN STOCK BIKES
WHILE SUPPLY LASTS

 

FALL

20% OFF ENTIRE STOCK -

HOMECOMING SPECIAL

The College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

Since 1926

MASTERCARD AMEX STUDENT CHARGES

by Steve Moore

IN THE BLEACHERS

M2? ©;?:‘%.L::’::.'..'::°.‘:$' '''''''' °v
*- ..ANDEl:Pi\ERE’5
v‘*‘;§§‘s§9»?~ \/IEW FRoM

“X OUR CAMERA

 
   

V NCE
SENTENCE ,

    

THAT5 \T\ BOB‘.
DONT CHOKE U

ADIECTIVES 1
ADIECTI VES F
ADIECFIVES‘. '.

     
    
  

 
 

 
 
  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1994 A

*¢“o“"’¢-‘-.
9 6 .9»


4

    

   
    

ME.MOP\1AL {9T7\DlUM
WELCOMES

NAWONAL SOUETY OF
ORTHOPEDIC. SURGEONS

l\/WARS I/.1

  

- HAAAA ‘J
ATTA WAY,

  

   
   
 

 

HIT ’EM IN
THE RNEE, HIT
’EM IN THE KNEE, so 5, , C
 HARDER, HARDERH *3‘; 

    

100% COTTON THROW

M e........-.... .. .

I

a.

w t//mi/A‘ \» W“ F "  ”" ’ 3”./’.! Ix

‘  . ..

,!/i  14:?‘ ‘ ‘  

Era _(1__s  mu. V
“;x‘t“‘\ ‘

Eanlyingtnn 2; I12: mxingrﬁity

LEXI l\2G'l'()N ‘.'lRGlNl.~\
FOUf\‘ OED 174‘)

Virginia Born & Bred’s
Exclusive

16 West Washington St. Lexington
463-1832

  

The Ring-tum Phi, september 30. 1994

§

 

ADVERTISEMENT

"I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

HOW TO HANG ON TO YOUR DOUGH.
(WITHOUT CRAMPING YOUR STYLE.)

£39 Separate “needs” from “wants.”
l-lint:A bed is a need.A Mr. Microphone
is a want.

£1) Split the bill but only pay your share.
Why put in for someone else’s swordﬁsh
if all you got was soup?

Set aside money for emergencies.
Unless you’d rather call your parents
for it instead.

£0 Keep your eye on your wallet.

Have a Citibank Classic card in case you
lose it.The Lost Wallets” Service can get you
emergency cash?" a new card usually within
24 hours and help replacing vital documents.

“Based on available cash line. .

WE’RE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU.“
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.

_______....___.._...____........._____...._....____.....___..__...___..___...I

  

© l994 Citibank (South Dakota), NA.

 

 

PAGE 6

@112 ilting-tum iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A new perspective

Autumn at Washington and Lee University.

Cooler days.‘ Football. And the annual debate about
whether or not women from other schools should be
nominated as homecoming queen candidates.

Well, we at the Phi would like to know, what about the
men?

Many schools (my high school, for one) choose both a
homecoming queen and king. Why can’t we do this at
Washington and Lee?

Think about it. It would give those mostly-female stu-
dent organizations a chance to get back at all those frater-
nities who traditionally choose girls from other schools.

A strapping cadet nominated by the Preston Society,
perhaps...or maybe a nice Hampden-Sydney student (after‘
all, they were ranked 13th in the Princeton Review for
“Reefer Madness.” They must have some fans at W&L).
I am sure they could use the love and attention.

Perhaps the Men’s Panel could take up this idea as their
platform from which to operate. Everyone needs a cause,
and this would be a great one.

I suppose, in the dark past of all—male W&L, the queen
was a nice decoration for the football game and a great
reason to bring women to the campus for the homecoming
weekend.

But these dark days have brightened with the addition of
women to our great campus (face it, I’m a little bit biased),
and the times they are a-changin’. ,

Escorts emphasize the frivolity of women, to take a
purely feminist standpoint. But king nominees would add
to the regality of the whole affair. Perhaps the homecom-
ing coronation could be more like a coronation, instead of
a debutante ball.

A part of the controversy around homecoming each year
is the idea that the W&L men are not showing the proper
respect for the W&L women by choosing candidates from
other schools.

But if a sorority was forced to choose a nominee for king,
perhaps the respect question could be a reciprocal one.

The Phi does not wholly support the idea of homecom-
ing queens, but we thought it would be germane to the
annual, and rather pointless, homecoming queen debate.
It’s something to think about.

Quote of the Week:

“Kelly Dyer has some girl doing his laundry for
him...how do you think I could get someone to do my
laundry for me?”

-—A Washington and Lee freshman obviously
oblivious to the charm of blonde hair and blue
eyes.

, writing on the wall: he pulls

Clhe iaittg-tttm ilﬁhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrew Schneider

The Ring-tum. Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

221450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

 

OPINION

you Metal,

 Fooreu. L
-'. amt ?

The Ringtum Phi, September 30, 1994

    

Give police a chance to do their jobs

Imagine it: three men, drunk, pile into theirHyundai
for a night of reckless driving in a major American
urban center. Not surprisingly, the police catch up
with them and begin what the driver turns into a

drawn-out, high—speed pur-
suit, endangering the lives
of everyone involved. Even-

tually the driver sees the

oven

But he resists arrest, as-
saulting the officers that
have converged on the scene.
Twice he fumbles in his
pockets, giving the police
the legal right to shoot him;

they do not. His excited state convinces them he is on
PCP; an attempt to subdue the suspect with a “stun

gun” has no effect.

It is police procedure not to wrestle with a suspect.
He is to be subdued by overwhelming force; all this is
in the training. The police make the fatal mistake;
they do what the City of Los Angeles has entrusted
them to do — they take their truncheons in hand, and
they strike the suspect until he is handcuffed and no
longer a danger to others. They take him to the station,
do their paperwork, and go home to their families;

they go to bed.

Of course, we all know the conclusion to the story.
The officers, principally Lawrence Powell and Stacey
Koon, awake the next morning to find that their arrest
and beating of Rodney King has become the premier
The fateful video-
recording is played again and again. The Simi Valley
trial is held, clearing the officers. A riot ensues. A
second trial is held within Los Angeles; this time the

news item across the nation.

jury returns a correct verdict.

Two years later, the policemen are in jail, and
Rodney King is a multi-millionaire. Justice is indeed

sweet.

 
 
   

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

fashioned enough to be-
lieve that criminals do
not deserve cash allot-
ments of $3.8 million;
they deserve to go to jail.

But this is all old
news, you say. Not re-
ally. It was all brought
back to me these past
few days, during which
the American press has
been agitating for
American troops in Haiti
to put an end to the “bru-
tal” treatment of “inno-
cent civilians.”

My point is not that
the media is, in this case,

necessarily wrong. I was more interested in how they
went about proving their point.

The beatings were said to be unreasonable, un-
necessary, inhumane. And how was this proved?

I realize that many people -— most, I should say —
will differ with my characterization of the events in
the case of Rodney King. It was, after all, a “savage”
beating, was it not? I am willing to concede the

possibility that some sort of
_ disciplinary action may have
been called for; Lawrence
Powell may have gone too
far. But that should not over-
ride an even more basic fact:
a man who drives while
drunk, leads the police on a
high—speed chase, and at-
tempts to assault the officers
trying to arrest him, is not a
hero. He is not a symbol of
how the black man has been forever oppressed by
whites. He is, in fact, a criminal. And I am just old-

Pictures, of course! We were treated to a few
pictures of Haitians being hit on the head with
truncheons. Case closed. Background was not ,r
required. The comment of one American soldier
said it all: “It was like Rodney King. It was bad.”
I agree. It was bad, but for a different reason: it
showed up our delusions as a society about police
violence. We no longer need the facts about why
someone is being beaten with a policeman’s baton;
we intuitively know that it is an outrage and must be
stopped. Implicitly, we have decided that no one
ought ever to be hit.

The wider point I am aiming at is this: as Ameri-
cans, we have become soft and stupid. We no
longer live in a world (nor did we ever) where the
bleeding-heart, Sesame Street assumption that “what
everyone needs is a little love” can work. We must
be willing to admit once again that there are hard

edges to the human con-
dition, and that some-
times these edges have

(6

...As Americans, we have become
soft and stupid. We no longer
live in a world (nor did we ever)
where the bleeding-heart, Sesame
Street assumption that “what
everyone needs is a little love”

can work.

pretty.

to be smoothed out, not
by therapy, not by cash,
not by support groups,
but by the naked use of
force by the police.

If this society of
rampant crime and even
more rampant social de-
cay is ever to be patched
up and put back to-
gether, we must be will-
ing to make a hard-
nosed, tough determi-
nation — we must be
willing to give the men

who keep law and order in force the means to get the
job done; and we must set aside our squeamishness
and realize that their task is sometimes less than

An inside look at the legal process

Unless you have been in a coma for
the last four or five months, all of you
should know (whether you want to or
not) that jury selection began forthe OJ
Simpson trial this week. Never fear,
this column is not about OJ; instead,
it’s about juries and jury selection. I
feel somewhat
qualiﬁed about

still the State Attorney for that circuit).
I knew several state attorneys, the two
I actually interned for and all of their
friends.

Both the prosecution and defense
started to interrogate me about that
experience: Had I ever had a personal

relationship
with a state

this, having
been on a jury
this summer.
The case was
nowhere as ex-
citing as OJ ’s,
just a simple
case of larceny.

As a pro-
spective juror I
was told to report at 8:00 a.m. to the
jury pool courtroom at the criminal
courthouse. At about 11:00, after I had
watched “Father of the Bride” and about
half of “City Slickers”, my name was
finally called for a panel. Since it was
so late in the morning the bailiff sent us
to lunch. We were supposed to be back
at 12:30, at about 1:45 we were led into
the courtroom. Everyone had to an-
swer a set of written questions that are
used by all the judges in jury selection;
these ranged from years of residency in
Dade County to whether we had ever
been the victim of a crime. The ques-
tion that focused attention on me for a
while was whether I was acquainted
with any State Attorneys.

During my senior year in high
school, I interned at the State Attomey’s
ofﬁce in Miami (while Janet Reno was

 

at to r n e y
(No); had I
ever satin on
juryselection
(Yes-bor-
ing); and
could I be
impartial to-
ward the de-
f e n d a n t

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

(Yes).

Finally, they moved onto other
members of the pool. At about 3:00 we
were told to wait outside while the
attorneys argued over which j urors they
wanted. At 4:15 we were led in and the
jury was installed in the jury box. I was
surprised to be selected. I had dis-
cussed the likelihood of my being on
the jury with two other women (who
were also selected) and we had decided
that the possibility was nil. The trial
eventually started at 4:30—we never
did get to decide on a verdict since the
state attorney dropped the charges the
next day. V

So what does this have to do with
OJ? A lot. There has been a lot of talk
about jury consultants and what type of
people each side will want on the jury
to get a favorable verdict. I believe that

the only criteria should be that a juror
be fairly educated and citizens without
any outstanding biases. The 7th amend-
ment guarantees a trial by a jury of
one’s peers; not a trial by a jury of
people who do not ﬁdget, or have to
hunt down the ﬁve dollar discrepancy
in the checkbook, or look at the defense
attorney more than the prosecution.
These were some of the things listed in
a recent article that jury consultants
look for. A jury of heterogenous citi-
zens is all one
should ask for.
These people
will more then

guilty or innocent. I do think we would
have reached a verdict that reﬂected
the evidence.

.I think the judicial system in all the
furor over picking the “ideal” juror is
discounting the abilities of you and me,
as well as taking away one of the fun-
damental rights of a citizen.

I will mention one or two other
problems I had with the court system
although these may only be applicable
to the case I was on. First, starting a
trial at 4230, after
the jurors have
been sittingaround

likely come up bad idea. Even
with a fair ver- There has been a lot of though time is
dict. . money,weweren’t

Thejurylwas  ab0utJur.y consult‘ concentrating on
on was com- ants and what type of the testimony as

posed of four
women and two
men. Both men

people each side will
want on the jury to get a

we should have
been. Second, ju-
rors should be al-

were in their late favorable Verdi‘-t_ I be, lowedtotakenotes
twenties;andthe . . . during the trial;
women included (‘eve that the only cntena but,somekey point

one in her mid-
twenties, one in
her late forties,
and another in
her late sixties. I
do not know how
we would have
decided. When
we were sent to the jury rootn while the
lawyers argued a motion, we talked
about how annoying it was that the
lawyers went sidebar every ﬁve min-
utes and not whether the defendant was

should be that a juror be
fairly educated and citi-
zens without any out-

standing biases.
 

that may have hit
you during testi-
mony could have
been forgotten
bythe time delib-
erations start.

When you are
called for jury
duty, remember it is a privilege to live
in a country that still believes its citi-
zens capable of delivering justice; and,
be thankful you weren’t called for
theSimpson trial.

A7

)1

for8 1/Zhoursisa . -

 

    

4

ii Interviews and Photos

4.

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1994

OPINION

PAGE 7

Staying awake opens your mind.

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

In the tine tradition of humor col-
umnists everywhere, I have decided to
experiment with what an utter lack of
sleep will do to my well-being. It’s for
science, really. To make the whole
thing seem more scientiﬁc, I’ve been
popping vitamin pills because that
sounds really official. I’ve also tried to
gauge my alertness by playing Mo-
nopoly with Richard Weaver. It would
probably be a lot less surreal if it weren ’t
all true. Here are the results:

Day One: My insomnia is quite
upsetting because there is no good rea-
son for it. I want to sleep. I’m tired. I’m
feeling no more stress than usual. I
spent a lot of time tonight staring at the
ceiling in my room, pondering noth-
ing. Maybe all that sleep I was doing
was a waste of time. My alertness must
not be seriously compromised because
I beat Richard Weaver at Monopoly
already. He seemed mad when I woke
him up this morning to play. So be it.

Day Two: Not sleeping at night is
one thing, but not sleeping during the
day is quite another. My professors

’ have not seemed too appreciative of

the experiment so far. To appease them,
I have tried to stay awake by drinking
massive amounts of Mountain Dew
and Jolt from the Co-op. In the past, I
thought that these things were a silly
waste of time when you could be drink-

ing something fun like coffee, or better
still, a full Colonnade cup (The Offi-
cial Beverage Holder of Insomnia) of
espresso. Unfortunately, what with all
of the naps I ’ve needed to take, I haven’t
had time to grind my own beans and
make a truly worthwhile cup of coffee.
The coffee from the Co-op only de-

Richard Weaver at Monopoly again.

Day Six: I have been spending a lot
of time at Lee-Hi because, hey — it’s
open. I see Richard Weaver there a lot.
He shrieks and runs away when he sees
my Monopoly board.

Day Seven: My life signs are fail-
ing fast. Even though I have not been

presses me. sleeping, I have
Defeated Rich- been having
ard Weaver at Mo- dreams. I
nopoly once again. m-— ‘ C —:__j dreamed that I
Day Four: Be- was one of the
ing awake all night M i g h t y
has become dull. I I dreamed {hat I was Morphin Power
decided to make One ofthe  Rangers,thered
::::°;yl;::n;>f)uftna¥t Morphin Power Rangers, °"°- d1 '1
aroun e
night to ﬁght crime the red one‘ I ran_ar0und Chapel shoot-
in the great me- Lee Chapel shootlng at ing at other stu-
tropolis that is Lex- - dents with a Su-
ington, The City other students with a per Soaker. Ev-
That Never Sleeps. Super S oaker. Everyone eryone thought
My superhero oos- thought it was really it was really
tume consists of my I cool.
black opaque tights coo ' Day Nine:
(80 deﬂﬂiefe   SP9!“ f0U1'
microfiberfrom Ex- hours staring at
press), a matching my hand, gig-

black bra, and red running shoes, and
of course a mask. Fighting crime in
Lexington proved less fruitful than I
had hoped. Some kid in front of Sharks
yelled demeaning things at me, so I bit
him in the shoulder. The rest of the
crime that I had to deal with involved
illegal parking. Sadly, my fellow crime-
ﬁghters Baner and R.H. Smith beat me
to it. I cheered myself up by trouncing

gling manically. In spite of this, I beat
Richard Weaver at Monopoly. He
seems depressed.

Day Seventeen: I tried to take a
twenty minute power nap on the ﬂoor
of the Phi darkroom (my secret lair).
Not only did I not sleep, but years of
accumulated spilled chemicals have
seeped dangerously into my body.

Richard Weaver refused to play Mo-

nopoly with me. He does not appreci-
ate science.

Day Twenty: I spent a lot of time
tonight watching Infomercials on TV.
I can hardly wait for my new purchases
to come in the mail. My Susan Powter
tape and Ginsu steak knives will change
my life. I know they will.

Day Twenty-two: My cat’s imagi-
nary friend Myron appeared to me. I
never believed in Myron before. I am
‘considering therapy. Regardless, I think
Myron could beat Richard Weaver at
Monopoly.

Day Twenty-ﬁve: Maybe it’s not
insomnia. Maybe I am becoming noc-
turnal. I will try napping during class
by hanging upside-down from the
rafters of the C-school. I hope this is
does not prove distracting.

Day Thirty: No one knows this,
but I am the master of all. I can ﬂy like
Sally Field in The Flying Nun. I can
read my Economics book in one sit-
ting. I can touch my toes without bend-
ing my knees. Sleep is for the weak.

Day Forty-two: Delirious? Not
me, boy. Hahahahahaha. “Why are you
laughing, Darl? Is it because you hate
the sound of laughing?
Yesyesyesyesyes!”

Myron and Winona Ryder. The rain,
the rain. Why snake phlegm?

Coffee. NOOOO.

I thought you were holding a Blow
Pop. Okay. Hee, hee.

Nope, no delirium here. Final note:
beat Richard Weaver at Monopoly once
more.

F

By Hans Yao

Scott McKeIvey ‘98, Millersville, Md. -
“Another beer, dude. Retox!!”

 

hit.”

Eric Dour “98, Middlesex, N. J. — “A bong

“Gatorade.”

TALKBACK

 

 

Doug Panzer ‘98, Bala Cynwyd, Penn. —

Letters can be written to the Phi
by either mailing them to

The Ring-tum Phi at 17.0 . BOX 8 9 9,
Lexington, Va 24450 or by

submitting them to Carol Callrins

in the   University C enter.

1

\

 

Fulbright

Seniors interested in apply-
ing for Fulbright Fellowships for
1995-96 should contact Profes-
sor Herrick immediately in his
office in the Commerce School,
Room 212, to learn about proce-
dures and scheduling. The fel-
lowships pay for a year of study
abroad.

Bicycle

If you lost a Schwinn bicycle
recently or if you suspect it was
stolen, please call the Lexington
Police at 463-2112 to identify.

1 Calyx

Sign up for your senior pic-
ture appointment in the Co-op.
All senior pictures must be taken
before Fall Reading Days, Oct.
20. Reminder: a $20 fee is
charged for each senior who ap-
pears in the senior section, no
matter who schedules the ap-
pointment or places the senior
picture in the Calyx.

Phi

If you are interested in writ-
ing for the Phi, orworking on the
business side, please stop by our
weekly story board meeting on
Tuesday at 7 p.m. in in the Uni-
versity Center Room 208. We
are also looking for an Ad Com-
position artist.

First Monday

The First Monday panel dis-
cussion will be held on Monday
October 3, from 12:00 to 1:30,
in the Moot Courtroom. Pizza
will be served. The discussion is
sponsored by the Public Interest
Law Students Association.

CDP

There will be a Career Test In-
terpretation on Monday, October 3,
at 3:00 in room 108 of the Univer-
sity Center. Sign up with Ms.
Saunders in the CDPO if you have
taken the Meyers Briggs and Strong
Campbell and not yet had yourtests
interpreted.

Resumes

There will be a resume work-
shop on Wednesday, October 5, at
4:00 in Room 109 of the University
Center. All students are invited.

Internships

There will be an internship work-
shop on Thursday, Ocober 6, at
4:00 in room 109 of the University
Center. All students are invited.

Film Society

The Film Society will be pre-
senting Of Mice and Men on Fri-
day and Saturday, September 30
and October 1. Friday night’s show-
ing will be at 8:00, and Saturday’s
shows will be at 7:00 and 9:00.

Pre-Law

The Pre-Law Society will meet
in room 321 of the Commerce
School at 7:00 on October 6 to
discuss activities for the year. All
undergraduates interested in Law
School are encouraged to attend.
Further information is available
from Professor Lewis John in room
125-B of the C-School.

Rhodes

Seniors interested in Rhodes
scholarships should contact Pro-
fessor Evans immediately.

 

Tim Scott ‘95, Baltimore, Md. —— “Brunch in
the D-Hall with sunglasses.”

What is your best hang-over cure?

\
\

Subscribe to The Ring-tum Phi for only $30 a year. It’s really a small

price to pay for such Big News.

Name

Address

 

Layout by Phil
Carrott

AI Tkacik, W&L Secuirity Officer -
“Moderation.”

 

 
   
 

  
 

 

  

 

   

 

 

   
 
  
    

 
  

 

 

  

PAGE 8  S The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1994
b
  t tS . t .
assistance training ’
lead 75 community education sault is not a women’s issue, it’s an
B DAN ODENWALD
y _ wﬁ programs. everybody issue.” . )
P," Staff ‘er The volunteers, who go through a Coffey also pointed out that
33-hour preparatory program, are RACASA volunteers are educated
“Think of the six women oiosest to trained as counselors who deal ﬁrst- about date rape on college campuses.
you. Now guess which one will be handWitgsiexualassaultv£cgms.Their She stresses that college is not the ﬁfrst
ra ed this year.” responsi iities are vane . me vo — time at which people are at risk or
PTMS grtiim itatistic is thmgfgg unteers Woglzoﬁlal'0tdtlf)n1;S:!{iCdug3t;)f ﬁexgal assgult, séffiierpl is an exhtreikiliely A
mossa et at egins most A manninga - ourcnsis 0 me. - ig num er 0 res man w o ave
]iteiatEie_'1‘heRockbi-idgeAreaCoa1i- ers senée as counsellprshin support been sexually assaulted before they
tion A ainst sexual Assault, founded groups or persons w o ave experi- even set foot on a college campus,”
‘ in 199g(), is a community group of enced sexual assault. Some serve as says Coffey. She cited alcohol, while
Rockbi-idge area residents who have patient advocates and accompany the not the reason for sexual assault, in- X
untiedtooduoatethepubiioaboutsexuai victipi todthe hlotspital, pC(l)_lice départ— creatses tlhe i1ikleliho1o_d that lpiay hap-
it’ ff 'ot'm ass‘sta , d men , an cou procee ings. iven pen oraco 0 inte ereswi commu-
ifiginsig iifttoi-‘:en:ion_ RlAcI,::§A2i:a the sensitive nature of the duties of a nication. “When alcohol is involved
satellite operation of the Blue Ridge volunteer, RACASA pamphlets call people are not as aware as they should
Sexual Assault Center of Staunton, (fior P°:P:)°l “W0 are m3t“1’¢,S13b1€,3nd b9,_}:3Y; (l:]°_1i“f¢)f-i S _ f th_ ‘
Viiginia_ epen a e. p e a raining ession or lS
 Each year RACASA leads 3 F31] Kimberly Coffey, a member of the year began on Monday, September 26
Vo]unteerTrainingP1-ogram,Theyseek Blue Ridge Sexual Assault Center of and runs through. Saturday, l_*Iovember
Voiunteeis to train who win provide St2:junton,V:‘rginia,urges,“liothvléogien 12atthe Mi_nt_SpringMethodistChurch.
Photo by Damel Timon’ Special to The Ringwm Phi direct Yictnn sci-Vioos and oominunny an men w 0 want to ma e a 1 er- The training sessions will be held
Freshman Matt O’Brien, left, and Dan Rushing, right, enjoy the end of three-week Rush. Ed“°_a“°“ Pl'(°§“’ms' I“Pih‘fj °°'<’:‘P’°' ﬁg:$1Egrlgggéfghdcsgﬁiezéﬁrgaﬂs 3f‘3r(‘;I;:';:a¥r‘:;::‘;‘£s£$)T£63ga%JTd2:‘; /k’
ensivewor s o , rou ea ers over - « - --
re   0 0   N i t topics Such as myfhg and facts, medical unteers tend to be people who are very sessions on October 29 and November
I i ' , d ' k reduction issues 3 concerned.” 12 from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m..
fl] y h H ‘d h h 1 giléisax esrtlismates, last ydarthey as): While a<iCmiit1tingdr(ijio:t“\éolunteers RACASA urges interested people
-» mm. from page 1 ...§.?:;:.:.:::‘.:::';.“::;°.:::.:::‘:..:: .:‘:i...*.:;.: .:..::: :::*.:’.“:::        °  ° ’  ‘°   -
The resounding adjective was “te- centered around the times freshmen  d  t t h  1
Sigma Nu, liked Rush this year be- dious.” Todd Ellingson describes it as had the least amount of work, i.e. u   S 0 0  e
cause he felt that the Rush activities hectic, boring, but useful. Scott Wein Wednesdays nights and weekends. He . .
were finally in the correct order: open would have liked more open contact. was also pleased that the idea of a dry t  f  t
houses before open contact. Last year, The freshmen also didn’t like the sud- Rush was better enforced.  a e     I
he says,when there werea lot of parties den adjustment they had to make. “After all, this is an important deci- . .
before formal Rush, freshmen would Many agreed that it was difficult to sion for freshman men. They shouldn’t D, SCC, from page 1 ffsimd Problem which Bludworth hopes to address dunng
come to the open houses pretty much have to Rush within the first month of base it on who gets the drunkest,” 1 ,,%r:"‘ a 6318 d . ht d ,t I
knowing which houses they were in- coming to college. Although a lot of Batteh said. 1.k t dd .th. th fr k f th SCC fair bicgugg basgcgﬁocctsggtggentnow 0:3 (hfifgsg 130
terested in already‘ This way’ the fresh’ the freshmen would Saythatthey didn’t 1 ?l”li)eaﬁrsrteiSsSawlrob1iemeof:Id:ovii?iltab(ilit eBludworth said Deaii (of Students Daz/id) Howison (:1l’lI:iatI\)l50 or tliree other 5
men could get a better idea of each like visiting every house and shaking thatoftenin case}; thatare bro“ htbeforeﬁe SCC ﬁ_atemi_ deans Then an that the can do is if the feel like the
“‘‘“‘’i‘’“‘‘1 “°“S"‘ “Very b’°”‘°”““"“"’“‘°S‘“’°““"’g’°° t' d th ‘ b bl g d r t th t if b a alhas some merit they can se d "tb cktb the scc and
However, Jim Wilson, from Pi Phi, that it had its benefits in allowing one 165 an." deg [Peg] .3“ flue mm of ac S a ave em tggfwe can decidea Qnwyh th gr lot ‘aha. a ealhas’ an
feelsthatthereweren’tenoughparties. to see which houses he liked and corgrglsagd ..y lf?a::r1n;iae:'and sororities are held“) ahigher merit” g I 6 er n II pp y
A.repre?°‘ematwe from Pm De" agreed ‘’‘‘’2 t ‘Ike’ . . . standard at’W&Lthan individuals are...They have to answer Although they have a far-reaching domain over which 3
with Cnder and feltthatthe new Rush Rush was effect“/em anowmgthe to the facult Interfratemit Council and Panhellenic the mustwatchandafew minorobstacleswhichthe must
calendar was much more effective. “It students to get to know each other C .1 dyfth. k th t. d.y .d I ’ d t b h Id dea); with Bludwonh and th other members of mg SCC
was quicker, shorter, and better with outside of the party environment,” °unclt"lj3nf “:11. a m ti" "3 Snee 0 6 6 more Seem read’ to face the ch 1] 6 Sm tth ,94_95 cademic
the open houses ﬁrst.” Most people stated Matt O’Brien. am"? . C or fetlg own acllons‘ d f th SCC, th ear W.“ yresem a enge a e a
preferred this year’s shorter Rush over Kevin Batteh, IFC president, is 6 “mess 0 e app“ 5 pmce “re 0 e 15 e .y I P '
the previous years. pleased with the way Rush went this y
r T W T W T T w W T W W
' l VARNER 8! POLE  
I Specializing in Unfinished "
' t t Furniture and Shades
l by Marie, Robin, Kim & Barbara ,
, 19 S. Randolph St. i
, Cgllfor , MARIE’S I Lexington, VA 24450  
l 4g§,g$°8" 11 South Jefferson I
I ._ __ I;exLr:9t9_n-.Y*_r9.*9'e_%4459t 453-2742
— A
0 11 ' ‘
The BEST in 4 *
Vi;  Sports W ear. g__QU[;_:)TRiAN \
. . cl_oTlJlNc: -TAcl4..l;\vL:_L.lzY- qIFT:> Featuring W ,_
Visit us Downtown or , V. l    . 
P C ac Serving Breakfast, Lu _ . er. All you can eat
AT  G buffet Wed., F ri., Sat. — F-_ ts All Day Sunday
' C 200M. Beer on Premisis. Catering & Banquet Facilities.
_ lTl;_M:> N G000 ca~DlTl0N \Vl;l._c0tvi;. Sororities & Fraternities Welcome. Menu everyday. #
15 W. Washington St. Mail Order i t \\/_\\/A;,i_hNqTpN ;,Ti2_;_t:;_T Rt. 11 South at Fancy Hill
464-3000 1-800-474-0056 tunxr T0 LNVE.lz.bfTY :>PaIzT\vi;mz) I-81. exit 1803
705 464-9500 1020 Oﬂ when you mention this ad
-0
  W ?   K6" ’S COITIGI‘
Can eDa More For You. V
. , , _ _ . OnRt.6o elsonSt.,2.5mlleswestofLe)dngton ‘
The answer is YES! Ifyou would like to review our directories, newsletters and disk/CD-ROM “ (N _ _) _ '” »
products for a FREE 30-day trial period, please check below and return: The tf ad] t [On COI1 tlnues
D standard Periodical Directory ......................................... .. $495 Famous hot do s w/ chili 99¢ ea., .
l:i spoon (Publications on co-non) sass ”“"‘° - - - - p
..u.........................      .
D Oxbrldoe Directory of Newsletters ...................................... .. $395 Title
0 National Directory of Magazines ......................................... .. 3395 C 7'UPs A&W "°°t been Rcv Cream 5°da'
D OXMODE (Magazines on Disk) .............................. .. $1,500 °"“""’ 3 cans / $1.00
D National Directory of Catalogs ............................................ .. $295 Address ti
0 oxcooe (Catalogs on Disk) ..................................... .. $995 . . . . ’
0 National Directory of Mailing Lists ..................................... .. $345 my’ State’ 2”) Nat “gm suns ' $959
CI The College Media Directory 3145 Telephone Bud suits - $11.99
El Publishing Trends & Trendsetters (1 ox per year) ............... .. $245 40 lb ice . $4 99
CI Who's Printing What (Newsletter) $195 D Please send me information on ' ' ' ' I T”
...................................... .. your directories on disk! .
Cl List Leads Newsletter—0bscure Direct Marketin Leads  14 0 PI (1 me int ‘ ' ' ' ' ' A5 Alwa S We Prawde The Best
0 ) 5 ease sen ormation on advertising in your dlrectones. _ 1 _
Service For The W&L Community
0 - 7 D — 3 ‘
. . QQQQQQQQQ-Q-QQQQQQQQQQQQua 
- -' - 9 ' - LLYWOOD FL 33022 '
DO YOU Want Credit Cards . ' UNI CARD.BOX 220645..-H0 . t 1 1‘ ‘ pa‘ p
| V p I 1.Pe(sonis unconsclousormmb /\
.N°“' Y0" 0.3" MW “"3 '."°3‘ "°°8'“”~‘d » ' 0 ‘want MASTERCARD’ mm‘°dIatdy° ' 2 cCt(:‘l(§ci:‘i:rsTl?T:Y'dpc::,I9n:))fl;h|iliSl1Sklfl.
credit card In the mud EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I may. qugngutggm I ‘_ 3jcm;kmsee}fb,ea,,,ingis,.o,,,.ess
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! | | l than eight tirnes perminuie, or
" Moon.-rcaroo the credit card» you I I 1 '|"°9“'a;;‘g"r;';,f§ ‘°°°"“‘°’"‘°'° K
desenle and need for-— ID-—BO0KS——D!-ZPARTMENT | NAME . r 4 V .‘. Wm .'| . Wpassed .
EM ERG  NM EN!‘-— ' D I  oimahrdgnot ii/fakisngeiiilinzgﬂer vomiting.
H(ITEl.S—MOTi-ZLS-—GAS--CAR RENl‘Al.S— ' '  naper_sonhas_-nit;-"tnI:~esem_=wrli=&‘-rorllmhe
RI-:PAlRS—AND ro BUILD YOUR cneorr RATING! I CITY STATE _ ZIP A : i §_':;9c':ﬁ*""°"on "9 3° ° °
I - " ; . ' -
I Y N i 1.GtheI.CIl , taff x
11:3 :urer(I;if:::csl'(s' I STUDENT? es 0 S's’ ' mimbeﬁ a‘lr‘:ha3l:lLi))rlrlit£a|3?\r(:2:, gjblic safety,
_ - | someone ocan ep.
uwsﬁ En\S5“" No security deposit! : SIGNATURE ' 2. Do not leave the the person alone.
vhnisﬁgéq 359‘ Kilt: Masluthid Is I registered Indennrli of Maternal Intcmntlomi. Inc. turn him or her on their side to keep
0 \~A0 S UPON TODAY I U them from choking in case of vomiting. -
END THE CO v v - 3 Alwa sbe "better safe than sorry" if
.  YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING; I MAIL 1 ms NO RISK COUPON 1 ()DAY I ~y0ua¥emurewham dmwcan l.
 . ‘Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q. Yourfrlendbe3”9'Y3b°UtY°UC3"i”Q

 

for him or her?

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30, 1993

Cable 2 News now able to

use CNN sound

III» CABLE, from page 1

Roanoke’s Channel 7 news and CNN
morning news.

Gartin said the old method of using
taped footage instead of satellite-fed
news was inconvenient and inadequate.

“Only two or three of the stories that
we were running in our newscast were

. run on tape, and then we had to go
v through and ﬁnd them,” Gartin said,

“whereas here, it’s already listed for us
(by computer), so we know where to
find it. It’s a lot easier to access, a lot
easier to put into the newscast effec-
tively.”

Albert agreed that the new system is
more efficient.

“We get the tape and we look
through it and see what they have,”
Albert said. “Today they had footage
of Haiti, they had a couple of people
interviewed...they had (O.J.) Simpson
(updates)...and we can use allthatstuff.”

In addition to getting satellite-fed
news, the journalism department paid
for changes in the studio set. Commer-
cial artist Karen Crenshaw of Lexing-
ton painted the Colonnade, a mountain
scene, and downtown Lexington on
the set backdrop. Mike Gorman of the
W&Ltheaterdepartment also designed
an awning, new desks, and risers for
the set, which Buildings and Grounds
workers built. .

With all of the new capabilities,

"Cable 2 producers and cameramen

might have a hecticfirst week of broad-
casting. The news show is scheduled
for broadcast from Monday through
Thursday at 5:30 p.m.

Problems in using the new footage
might come from a lack of student
journalists who understand how to in-
corporate it into broadcasts.

“We don’t have enough manpower,”
said senior Tricia Coughlin, Cable 2
news director, “and the writers have to
write (a story that lasts) a certain amount
of time before the sound on the tape
comes on.”

Cathrine Robb suggests
public forgets her
father’s record of service

 

Broadcast journalism professor Rob-
ert de Maria agreed that the station
needs more writers and student-pro-
duced shows.

“More and more TV professionals

an ide

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi
Part of the new set in the Cable 2 News studio on the third
ﬂoor of Reid Hall. The new set is part of an effort to upgrade
the studio for broadcast journalism majors.

are coming out of college TV,” de
Maria said. “College TV now is at the
vanguard of production, and we at
least have the facilities to get people
interested.”

II» ROBB, from page 1

non-speciﬁc character charges against Robb “ridiculous”
and unfounded, saying that many voters had “short memo-
ries” when it came-to her father’s record of service to
Virginia that allowed charges of marital inﬁdelity and pos-
sible involvement with drugs or drug users to gain a foothold
in the public mind, even though unsupported by any credible

evidence.

She also predicted that the withdrawal of the independent
Democratic candidate, former Governor. Douglas Wilder,
from the Senate contest would allow constituencies which
had been conflicted on whether to support Robb or Wilder to

move solidly into the Robb camp.

“This was the biggest Democratic gathering ever, except
for Mock Convention,” said senior Andy Wright.

JOURNALISM
MAIORS:
EXPAND YOUR
CLIP FILE AND
WRITE FOR THE
PHI. WE ALSO
; HAVE EDITORIAL
E POSITIONS OPEN
§I=OR ANY EXPERI-

: ENCED PEOPLE
§wHO ALSO HAVE
EFLEXIBLE FRIDAY}
SCHEDULE.
COME TO OUR

3 MEETINGS EVERY

{TUESDAY NIGHT}
 IN THE UNIVER- °
ESITY CENTER, UP
THE STAIRS
STRAIGHT ACROSS
FROM THE OLD
SIGMA CHI

HOUSE AT

0 C
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

“Ike ‘FDR;

97 gcarS..O.Id.-

we still come OIICC
a WCCR

and

WHEN vou RIDE
nnumi ONE MORE run
THE rlonn cm HAVE
AN ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT MEANING.

Alcohol quickly affects your judgment,
balance, and coordination. Don't

drink and ride. Or your last
drink might be your last drink
‘ MOTOIIOYOLE SAFETY FOUNDATION 6)

VI SA

 

Many undergraduates here at
W&L hardly even know that there is
a law school here on the campus, but
in fact a vibrant community exists
right over the footbridge at Lewis
Hall, home to the W&L School
of Law.

A driving force, both socially and
academically, at the law school isthe
Student Bar Association. Shawn
Copeland, president of the SBA, de-
scribed his organization as “like the
Student Activities Board” on the un-
dergraduate campus, but with some
additional functions, which Copeland
explained as “quasi-academic.”
Mostly, this involves working with
other organizations, such as Con-
tact, to bring speakers to the law
school campus.

The SBA has already sponsored a
number of both social and academic
events. last Friday, the SBA spon-
sored a “Night Under the StarS” out-
side of the law school, where law
students had a chance to display their

talents (or lack thereof). The SBA
was also represented at the Foxﬁeld
Races in Charlottesville, with two
buses of tailgaters reveling in the
day’s activities.

The SBA has also sponsored some
speakers and symposiums on the law
school campus. On September 23,
the SBA hosted a law symposium
discussing the legal ramifications of
new reproductive technology. Last
Monday, Edward Cleary, an attor-
ney and author, discussed freedom
of expression and political correct-
ness at the law school.

Upcoming social events at the
law school include tailgating at
Homecoming this weekend, a
“Bridge the Gap” party, where law
school students and seniors on the
undergraduate campus get together
for an evening of food, drink and
socializing on the last weekend in
October, as well as a Halloween party
at Zollman’s Pavilion.

Upcoming speakers, whose dates

Pto b Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Law Notes

of arrival have yet to be determined,
include Jay Sekulow, an attorney
who has argued before the Supreme
Court on issues such as freedom of
expression and religion; Frank
Bolden, a Wall Street corporate at-
tomey for Johnson & Johnson (also
sponsored by the Black Law Student
Association); as well as the chief
legal counsel for the CIA.

W&L undergraduate students
may wonder what these activities at
the law school have to offer to them.
As Copeland puts it, “these speakers
touch on issues other than strictly
academic issues,” and can also pro-
vide undergraduate students “with a
whole new perspective.” They have
already been through college, along
with all the experiences (good and
bad) that a college student goes
through. They also know what life
after college is like, and can provide
an undergraduate student with
some valuable advice on life
after graduation.

Law notes are compiled by Eric Swensen

Bored? 

Nothing I0 (10 on a Thursday night ?

Then come work for the Ring,-tum Phi

We have openings our layout
and ad composition departments

 -

Lexington Hair Design

Mon. - Fri. 8:30-5:00, Sat. 8:30-12:30
Haircuts: Men, 36 Women, $8
Perms:
$25 , spirals extra

463-3344

ALVIN-DENNIS, INC?

jj

 

 

E. Nelson St., Lexington

7/Zae"I/zfae

HARDWARE STORES "“‘

    

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

463-2186

102 W WASHINGTON ST.

463-5383

- Woolrich

- Duckhead

- Ra -Bans

- Red ing Boots
- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos
- Fancy Cummerbund and ’I‘ie Sets
- W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars
- Embassy Boxers

Alumni Special
Suits and Sportcoats

20% Off

Open This Sunday at 10:00 a.m.

MASTERCARD

WELCOME W&L ALUMNI

STUDENT CHARGE

 

  

ADVERTISEMENTS

WELCOME
BACK
ALUMNI!

   

  For once, a cut in  
educational spending that
actually helps students.

     

 

Maa'nIa9l2' Pe7'orma' 6368/250 PowerMacinIasb' 7100/66 8/250 ..

with CD-ROM, Apple‘ ColorPIus 14'  will; (ID-ROM Apple‘ Mulhple Sam 15 
AppleDes1gn'I@baandandmouse. ow it1,624.oo. AppleDas1'gr1' Keybomzand mouse. Only ,r2,4ao.oo.

With Apple’s special low student pricing, you can get a terriﬁc deal on Macintosh‘; Macintosh"— the world’s fastest Mac." And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com-

the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford— puter, you won’t have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac
able Macintosh Performaj’ which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to  .’

get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple” PowerBook° or the Power discover the power all college students need. The power to be your best?’

   

Apple’ PowerBook‘ I50 4/120. one 31,201.00.

 

For further information visit University Computing in
Tucker Hall and ask for Ruth Floyd or call 463-8847

*Price does not include sales tax

©I994AppIeCorr4>uler, Inc. AIln'gbmwermi Apple, Ibe/apple logo, Macinlaslr, Macinlotsbguadm, Pejorma, PowerBoat and Wbepouaerlo beyourbm!”arervgr'sleraIIrademarIzsoj'AppIeCo»1pwer, Inc. Applebesrgn, MacandPowerMaa'nIasbare!rademarIzs of/tpple Campuler, Inc.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30,1994}

b

/,

5,,

t

A

‘I

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 30 1994 PAGE 11
’ SPORTS

    
 
  
  

   
 

 
    
 

 
   

F N
THE NUMBERS GAME
VOLLEYBALL
Kill Err Att. Pct. Chad Dobbins 2 1 5
Hilary Martin 110 22 248 .355 Bill Sigler 1 2 4
  EA NS    PRMES Elizabeth Bahn 75 30 207 .217 Paul Wright 1 0 2
Holly Thomsen 42 14 128 .219 Judd Allen 0 1 1
Chrissie Hart 42 29 143 .091
.  W  Jennifer Garrigus 41 23 144 .125 GOALKEEPING GA SV Pcr
 Iii“   It 1?‘ ““:“.§‘“ 3 33 ‘Z32
’  ...,. .— ' FOOTBA’ L ernan o ravo .
* REGULAR on LOW SALT  - . I,  . y . make .  RUSHHNG YDS/GAME
_  I ‘ Matt Mogk 36.5 W0MEN’s SOCCER
‘I B J .P. Josephson 10.5 G A TP
‘ pg Aaron Wilkinson 7.5 Erica Reineke 8 5 21
‘ Brooks Fischer 25 Michelle Bauman 6 7 19
I 9 Kait Barton 2 5 9
I I6 PASSING Arr. COMP. YARDS Anne Spruill 4 1 9
4, 02, Brooks Fischer 49 24 162 Jen Lynch 3 2 8
Tommy Rueger 2 2 18 Christy Meade 2 0 4
Leighton Kirby 2 0 4
RECEIVING R Yns YPR
'.( William Propst 13 118 9.1 GOALTENDING GA Sv Pcr.
Lows RICH Hayne Hodges 3 16 5.3 Beth Mozena 4 13 .765
CARVING BOARD Matt Mogk 3 20 6.7 Anne Spruill 4 10 .714
J.P. Josephson 2 5 2.5
DEFENSE TACKLES SACKS Ga) A Tp ppg
ROW“ H1111 30 2 Peter Sorenson 13(0) 14 27 2.7
, 5 - 5 OZ» Stuart Hogue 26 0 James Silberstein 21(0) 5 26 2.6
I "‘~ Travis Wisdom 26 0 Rich Cober 12(2) 4 20 2.0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Jason Chartrand 23 1 ’ Derek Devries 5(0) 9 14 14
s Butler Ball 20 0 Frank Braden 9(0) 3 12 1.2
‘ V  . Reuben Munger 7(0) 4 11 1.1
" ' "‘_‘_‘ I Tony Diederich 6 0 2 8 0.8
' -  PRESIDENT S CHOICE MEN’s SOCCER Bryan Drum 6E0; 0 6 0.6
. ,   G A TP
R ° . :7 “ 2 Gordan Meeker 1 1 3 GOALTENDING GA Sv Pcr.
 I  Shag Drewry 3 0 6 David Silvester 121 111 .489
. $5  _. Jeb Wofford 2 2 6 Tom Donnelly 4 0 .000
A : ‘"7 “
‘ _ K ‘ J

   
 
  
  

I I:

5 7.1 E

HARRIS TEETER
PREMIER SELECTION

‘ TOMA

 

REG. OR THIN PEPSI OR
* SKINNER SPAGHETTI DIET PEPSI

.2/ on

t 16 OZ.

WEEKLY SPECIAL WEEKLY SPECIAL

HARRIS TEE-I-ER BUY ONE 5.5-6 oz. BAG
NQNFA-I YOGURT EAGLE THIN CHIPS

‘ 4! O 0 AND GET ONE
3 HARRIS I'EEI'ER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALI. ABOUT

1 REGULAR on FAT FREE IN THE DELI-BAKERY

NABISCO ‘I99 MACARONI

 

2*

I2 PK.
I2 OZ.
CANS

 

 

   

homecoming
A NEWTONS ‘6z'.° SALAD use concert

CHICKEN OF THE SEA

3'i'i'Kiﬁ'EE°z‘" °“”""”°"‘ 2/ 29 at The Pavilion
« 5'-"CE <‘>i-  WIIIAEIII ‘<’s‘z‘7‘ I   doors o en at 8:30,
Prices Effective Through Oct. 4, I994 Beer garden ' ID required

W 'all;%v6.:‘.E.‘:::$:tnW.t.alg :‘*.:m?.*:r2s:".E’:.2..%§: .L’:::%*;.II~I;dsz..:i:t°at; 2‘;..1.i3‘1.';‘.§:.It2“.::Er?E:;9si,°.:;'z 

 

 

Last Week:

CC- (M)- 2nd of six at Dickinson Open

(W)- 2nd of six at VMI Invitational
SOCCER (W)-lost to Va. Wesleyan 3-2; def. Hollins 10-1

(M)-lost to Roanoke 4-1; def. Guilford 4-0

VOI.LEYBALL- def. Roanoke 3-0; def. RMWC 3-0
WATER PoLo- 1-3 at Navy Invitational

FO0’I'BALL- lost to Centre 17-0

PAGE 12

3

(I112 iﬁing-tum ilﬁhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL

«it;

This Week:

CC- Frostburg St. Invit. (M); at F 8: M (W)
Soccr-zn (M)- vs. Randolph-Macon and Bridgewater

(W)- vs. Randolph-Macon; at Sweet Briar

VoLu:vnAu.- at Emory Tournament; at Lynchburg
WATER PoLo- at Richmond EWPA Tourney
FOUl'BALL- vs. Randolph-Macon (Homecoming)

SEPTEMBER 30, 1994’

Women’s soccer gets off to fast start to 94 season -—

/we’re playing a game. It doesn’t

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s
women’s soccer team suffered
their second setback of the sea-
son at the hands of The College
of Wooster 4-0 last Saturday,
dropping the Generals to 3-2 with
eight games remaining.

Coming off their 10-1 explo-
sion against Hollins College, the
Generals found themselves at a
loss for offense Saturday.

Their defense remained
strong, largely controlling the
College of Wooster’s attack, de-

spite missing the experience of
sophomore goalie Beth Mozena.

Coach Jan Hathom declined
to cite Mozena’s absence or the
extended travel as excuses for
the ﬁnal result, saying, “I don’t
think it was the travel. I don’t
think it was one thing really. We
weren’t conﬁdent without Beth
in goal, and we weren’t ready to
play our game.”

That sentiment was echoed
by senior forward Anne Spruill,
who ﬁlled in for Mozena against
the College of Wooster, saying,
“We never found the rhythm. We
just didn’t connect.”

The team is looking forward

to Mozena’s return, which may
be Thursday against Mary
Baldwin.

However, Coach Hathorn
stated that, “We’re not pushing
it, ” and she expects Mozena to
be 100% this Saturday for the
game against tough ODAC rival
Randolph Macon.

For the duration of Mozena’s
absence, freshman Delia Coyle
is expected to use her past expe-
rience to take over as goalie.

Indeed, one of the General’s
greatest strengths is their young
talent. As one of the team’s se-
nior co-captains, Spruill empha-
sized the nature of the relation-

ship of the more experienced
players to their younger com-
rades,saying,“'I'heyoungerplay-
ers have an incredible amount of
skill. The older players just try to
show them the focus that they
need game by game.”

Fellow senior Kait Barton
agreed, observing that ”I think
that in the young players is where
we have most of our potential.”

Yet, as the Generals move to
a series of games that Coach
Hathom has labeled critical, all
sides agreed that eliminating the
negatives of inexperience was
the primary focus.

Coach Hathom cautioned that

BY STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee
water polo team visited An-
napolis for the second time in
as many weekends hoping for
better fare in the won-loss de-
partment.

The team came out of the
weekend with a 1-2 mark in
NCAA games and a close loss
to the New York Athletic Club.

In the first game, W&L ex-
acted a measure of revenge by
beating the Navy ‘B’ team by
the score of 14-12. The second
game, however, saw the Gen-
erals lose to Brown 12-7.

In the third game of the
day, the W&L squad played a
team of former college play-
ers in the New York Athletic
Club. Originally, the team
went into the game with the
intent of just playing every-
body and resting for the mar-
quis game against 15th ranked
Bucknell.

However, after watching a
four goal lead go by the boards,
the W&L team really got into
the action, ﬁghting it out to a
close loss in overtime.

Against Bucknell in the ﬁ-
nal game, the Generals took
the 15th ranked giant to the
wire, losing by the score of 13-
12 in overtime once again.

One of the stars for the Gen-
erals was sophomore James
Silberstein, who tallied ten
goals in the tournament.

Despite the 3-7 record for the
season to date, team coach Paige
Remillard was optimistic about
the team.

“We’re playing top teams in
the country,” said the coach.

The team has dropped a num-
ber of extremely close games to
powerful opponents this season.
One example of this was the over-
time loss to Bucknell this past
weekend.

When asked if he was both-
ered by the sub — .500 record
despite the close losses,
Remilalrd responded by saying,

Water Polo headed North

“Losing doesn’t upset me; play-
ing poorly upsets me. We’ve got
the athletic ability. We’re going
to reverse these scores. I really
believe that.”

The team has maintained a
consistent level of play through-
out the season and eventually the
close games should begin to go
the other way.

Remillard summed it up suc-
cinctly, “There’s a train coming
down the track And I don’t think
a lot of people see it.”

“We’re a young team, and people
haven’t learned to balance work
and things and take care of them-
selves yet,” but added that lead-
ership was one of the team’s
strengths. “Our captains and se-
niors are doing a great job.”
From the players side, Barton
remarked, “Because they’re
young, it’s tough for them [the
younger players] to be mentally
ready all the time because it’s
their ﬁrst experience with col-
lege soccer. They need to know
that we ’re human and that ’s OK.”
Spruill also showed resolve,
saying, “As a team, we’re all just
ready to focus on the fact that

matter who we play, we just need,
to be ready each time.” "

Following Randolph Macon
on Saturday, the Generals will
travel to the women’s college of
Sweet Briar, and then enjoy three
successive home games against!
the always tough Guilford,
Roanoke, and Swarthmore.

Coach Hathom remarked of
the challenge, “Every game’s a
tough game when you play [those
schools], and we have all those}
coming up.”

Note—The Generalsdefeated
Mary Baldwin by the score of 7-
0 after this article was written.

Atheletes of the Week

Special thanks to the W&L Sports Report

r.

The W&L volleyball program
has been making huge strides over
the last two years and freshman
Hilary Martin isapart of thisyear’s
strides. In W&L’s only match last
week, a four -game loss to Eastern
Mennonite, she led the team with
seven kills, seven blocks and 14
digs. Martin is among the top hit-
ters in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and currently leads the
team in kills(86), hitting percent-

7'
The defensive unit of W&L’s
football team had three goal line
stands in last week’s 17-0 loss to
Centre, one of which was due to 9‘

a leaping interception by senior
comerback Jon Wagner. The pick
was Wagner’s second of the game
and he also contributed six tack-
les and two pass break-ups.
Through the Generals ﬁrst two
games he already has four pass
break-ups, the same number he

    ,

 

2  

 

  

   
 

 

*By the way, Steve did
not lay out this page this
week.

Tory

and J aso rec A exciti ,
end of football and talk about other sports , ;

age(.324), blocks (31) and digs
(70).

‘,2, HM“

e

BY TORY Noro AND
JASON Trarmzns

To our loyal readers, we are
sincerely sorry we have been on
hiatus.

Unfortunately for the authors,
our favorite teams the Giants and
the Eagles, respectively, had a
bye week. As a result, it was not
one of the more interesting weeks
in the NFL.

The most interesting matchup
of the week involved two Super
Bowl contenders, the Miami
Dolphins and the Minnesota Vi-
kings.

To the chagrin of the many
fair-weather Dolphin fans we
know, the Dolphins fell behind
early and were unable to stop
Warren and the Vikes. After an

ugly ﬁrst half, Dan Marino ral-
lied the Fins and tied the game
but his superior performance
went to waste as the Vikings won
with a late charge.

For the ﬁrst time in his illus-
trious career, the aging Joe Mon-
tana was shut out. The Chiefs
fell to the lowly Rams, who were
led by a typical solid performance
by Jerome “Bam-Bam” Bettis.

Never during the much an-
ticipated battle of the Bays was
Tampa accused of being a stellar
football team.

The Northern version dis-
mantled the Bucs with a relent-
less attack led by the rejuvenated
Brett “INT” Farve and a feisty
defensive performance.

The Cincinnati Bungles were
dispatched by the non-threaten-

ing Cody Carlson and the Hous-
ton Oilers.

For those local fans, the Wash-
ington Redskins fell prey to the
Atlanta Falcons in a ghastly con-
test. The Redskins are not com-
mitted to one starting quarter-
back, and this dilemma has been
costly to Washington’s winning
potential.

The most exciting and rivet-
ing game was between two four
time Superbowl losers, the Buf-
falo Bills and the Denver Bron-
cos. Elway and his expensive
receiving corps have not lived up
to their potential, as the Broncos
lost due to a failed last minute
drive.

Due to the dearth of interest-
ing football last week, we will
move on to hockey. As loyal

hockey fans, we hope that the absence (the longest such ab-
season will start as scheduled. sence in the NHL)the Flyers will
We only see three teams that follow the leadership of Eric
have the capability to win the Lindros, Rod Brind’Amour, and
Stanley Cup this year: the New Mark Recchi.
Jersey Devils, the Philadelphia For emotional support, the
Flyers, and the Vancouver Flyers have brought back Ron
Canucks. Hextall to tend the pipes. The
The Devils come off a banner Flyers hopes hinge on Ron re-
year, asthey reached the Confer- gaining his 1987 form when he
ence Finals. was the best goaltender in
Scrappy Claude Lemieux, hockey.
All-Star defenseman Scott Othercontenders in the East-
Stevens, Stephan Richer, and em Conference include the de-
outstanding rookie Martin “the fending champion Broadway
prodigy”Broduerlooktoavenge Blues, the Boston Bruins, and
their heartbreaking, seventh- the Buffalo Sabres.
game loss in OT to the mercenar- However, the only two teams
ies known as the Rangers. in the East that can be safely
Fighting the Devils for the excluded from Cup contention
Eastern Conference title will be are the New York Islanders and
the Philadelphia Flyers. Un- the Washington Capitals.
daunted by their 5 year playoff The Western Conference fa-

had in 10 games last year.

 

vorites are the Vancouver
Canucks. Pavel “the Russian
Rocket” Bure and “Feisty” Jyrki
Lumme lead a strong core of re!
turning players that fell one goal
short of winning the Cup last
year.

Other strong teams in the
Western Conference are th
Toronto Maple Leafs led by the
undaunted Doug Gilmour and
Felix “the cat” Potvin, and the St.
Louis Blues (now coached by
Mike Keenan, ex of the Rangers
led by W & L law student Curti
“the chimney” Joseph.

We hope you all enjoy this
coming week of football and the
start of the 1995 NHL Hockey
season. I)’,

 

