The Stage Is Set
for Upcoming
Lcn"cst Events

Men's Basketball loses
heartbreaker to
Hampden-Sydney

in

he 'i;ting—tum lﬂhi

2 /.
VOLUME 94, No.11!’

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

mm»

Al

 SHOULD mow 
» .-at

E vs riy 5%! <’s<&*‘=

52:23.9.-..\;s4»»a tmmim‘ _

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Observing Global AIDS Day A

Global AIDS Day was December 1 this year, and the AIDS Education Project sponsored an information center
outside the Leyburn Library. Numerous information pamphlets about making sex safer, options for protection
from sexual transmitted diseases, condoms, and AIDS awareness ribbons were place out for people to take. In
addition, there were large charts with information about AIDS and how it is transmitted.

Former W&L dean dies at 84

Law professor, security officer, and bookstore employee also mourned

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee lost a former dean, a law
school professor, a security officer, and a bookstore
employee over Thanksgiving Break.

William Webb Pusey III, a retired dean, profes-
sor, and acting president of W&L, succumbed to
pneumonia at the age of 84 on Friday, Nov. 25. J.
Timothy Philipps, a professor at W&L’s School of
Law, died of cancer on Sunday, Nov. 27. He was 54.
Clarence A. Miller Jr., a W&L Security Officer, died
as a result of a heart attack on Friday, Nov. 18. Ruby
Clemmer Earhart, a W&L Bookstore employee died
on Saturday, Nov. 26, of cancer.

Pusey was a S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor of
German Emeritus and dean emeritus of W&L, in
addition to serving as acting president of the univer-
sity during his 42 years of service to the school. He
joined the faculty in 1939 as an associate professor of
German and was made a full professor in 1947. He
served as a dean of the college, W&L’s arts and
sciences division, from 1960 to 1971. Pusey was
appointed acting president of the university from the
time Fred C. Cole resigned in 1967, until his succes-
sor, Robert E.R. Huntley assumed the office
Feb. 5, 1968.

While acting president, he continued to serve in
the dual capacity of dean and chairman of the depart-
ment of German. From 1971 until his retirement in
1981, he returned to his first love: teaching.

During his 11 years as dean, Pusey directed a
series of changes that had a profound effect on W&L.
Faculty salaries were doubled, enabling the univer-
sity to attract and keep top-notch teachers; research
opportunities for both students and faculty were
expanded; the Robert E. Lee Research Program was
established and has since allowed hundreds of under-
graduates to engage in advanced research normally
undertaken only on the graduate level; the entire
university curriculum was reorganized; the academic
calendar currently in use was adopted; the number of
courses in arts and sciences was nearly doubled; a
program for honor students was developed; and the
faculty advisor system was reworked.

A 1932 graduate of Haverford College, Pusey
received his A.M. degree from Harvard University
from Harvard University in 1933 and his Ph.D.
degree from Columbia University in 1939. Pusey
was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta
Kappa. During World War II, he served 39 months
in the United States Naval Reserves, reaching the
rank of lieutenant commander. He was cited for his
work as an interpreter in interrogating the German
Naval Command at the end of the war.

Besides his duties in the German department,
Pusey taught Russian Language and comparative
literature and was responsible for developing W&L’s
East Asian Studies Program in the late 1970’s.

A noted scholar, he wrote extensively on the topic
of German language and literature. His major ﬁeld
of study was German Impressionism, particularly the
writing of Eduard van Keyserling. His doctoral
thesis, Louis-Sebastien Mercier in Germany: His
Vogue and Inﬂuence in the Eighteenth Century, was
published by Columbia University Press in 1939, and

in 1943, he co-authored a textbook, Readings in
Military German. He was the author of numerous
reviews and articles in scholarly journals.

He also was the author of a comparative historical
examination and critique of W&L’s curriculum in
the period of 1850-80, and a study of the Ann Smith
Academy, an all-female school in Lexington during
the 1880’s.

Aside from scholarly pursuits, Pusey was an avid
baseball fan and once served on the board of directors
of the Lynchburg Mets, a Class A farm club of the
New York Mets. He also enjoyed walking, garden-
ing, and playing bridge.

At W&L, Pusey won two Ring-tum Phi awards
from the newspaper in 1968 and 1971. In 1981, the
student body established the William Webb Pusey III
Award, to be given annually to a member of the
faculty or administration who has given outstanding
service to the university. Pusey was the
first recipient.

He is survived by two daughters and
two grandchildren.

J. Timothy Philipps, a native of Wheeling, W.Va.,
had been a professor of tax law since 1980. Prior
coming to W&L, Philipps taught at Loyola Law
School (1977-80) and West Virginia University Law
Center (1966-76). He was a visiting professor at
Duke University in 1976.

He received his B.S. from Wheeling College in
1962, J .D. from Georgetown University Law Center
in 1965, and L. L.M. the following year from Harvard
Law School. At Harvard, he was a Ford
Foundation Fellow.

Philipps taughtcourses in individual income taxa-

tion, business taxation, and tax policy. He lectured
frequently on tax policy and was the author of numer-
ous articles on the subject. He spent a sabbatical
leave in 1993 as a law to U.S. District Court Judge
Frederick Stamp Jr. in Wheeling, W. Va. He also
served as a member of the ABA Section of Taxation’s
committees on attorneys in small firms and problems
of low income tax payers.

He is survived by his wife, two daughters, his
mother, two brothers, a sister, and several nieces and
nephews.

The family requests that in lieu of flowers, memo-
rial donations be made to the Rockbridge Area Hos-
pice (146 S. Main St., Lexington, Va. 24450) or the
J. Timothy Philipps Scholarship Fund (c/o Washing-
ton and Lee School of Law, Lexington, Va. 24450).

Clarence “Sonny” Miller, 57, spent 17 years work-
ing as a W&L Security Officer. Assistant Director of
Security Stephen T. Tomlinson characterized Miller
as “someone who never complained.” After being
diagnosed with lung cancer, Miller underwent sub-
stantial radiation treatment, but “never missed a day
of work,” said Tomlinson. The day before he died of
a heart attack, his doctor had informed him that his
attempt to overcome the cancer had been successful.

“He was an inspiration to [the Security depart-
ment] and to the university,” said Tomlinson.

He is survived by his wife and daughter.

Ruby Clemmer Earhart, 61, had worked for the
bookstore for almost 30 years when she died. A
native of Rockbridge County, she lived in Raphine.
She is survived by her husband, three daughters, son,
sister, three brothers, three half brothers, and
eight grandchildren.

File Photo

Pusey was instrumental in forming the modern W&L while serving as dean.

U»... .— «.ut......_.._....- .... ...._._.., ..... 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

DECEMBER 2, 1994

Heatley suit
against W&L
tossed out

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

Judge Duncan M. Byrd, Jr. dis-
missed the $1 million lawsuit against
Washington and Lee University Nov.
15, granting W&L’s motion for sum-
mary judgment.

The decision is a victory for Wash-
ington and Lee University, and is the
culmination of a year-
long battle former
professor Nathan
Rick Heatley has been
waging in the hopes
ofbeingcompensated
for what his lawyers
called “wrongful dis-
charge” from the uni-
versity in May of
1993.

Heatley’s lawyer,
Charles Smith III of
Gentry Locke Rakes
& Moore in Roanoke,
said they would de-
cide whether to ap-
peal the decision
“within the next
couple of weeks.”

In oral arguments Oct. 19, W&L’s
lawyers made a motion for demurrer
and summary judgment. In otherwords,
they contended that, though the facts
that Heatley presented may have been
true, they did not support his premises
of wrongful discharge and breach of
fiduciary duty and the case should
be dismissed.

Heatley’s lawyers quoted a clause
from the Virginia Code which they felt
should create a new cause of action, or
a new basis on which civil suits could
be brought.

In his decision, however, Byrd cited
cases from the Virginia Supreme
Court which he said supported
W&L’s argument. ,

In response to the three of the counts
of Heatley’s suit, I, II and IV, which
allege that W&L “terminated Heatley
without just cause and without follow-
ing it own procedures,” Byrd brought
up the Virginia “at will” employment
clause. This states that the term of
employment is indefinite an may be
terminated for any reason, unless some
contract exists between the employer
and employee.

Heatley’s lawyers insisted that the
personnel manual, the faculty hand-

Heatley

book and the student handbook consti-
tuted a contract between Washington
and Lee and its employees. But, be-
cause the contract was not “signed by
the party to be charged,“ as the Statute
of Frauds mandates, it was not holding.

Byrd used the Falls v. Virginia State
Bar decision as his basis on these
counts. In the Falls case, an employee
of the Virginia State Bar argued that,
since the Bar manual bore the Bar’s
logo, the signature
requirement was sat-
isfred. The Virginia
Supreme Court said
it did not.

On count III of the
suit,whichalleged“a
wrongful discharge
under Virginia’s nar-
row exception to the
employment-at-will
doctrine for retalia-
tory discharge in vio-
lation of public
policy,” Byrd
brought in the deci-
sion of Miller v.
SEVAMP, Inc.

This count-means
that Heatley’s law-
yers tried to establish a new cause of
action under a part of the Code which
states its purpose is to “protect citizens
of the Commonwealth against
unfounded charges of
unlawful discrimination.”

However, because the Supreme
Court decided in Miller that the excep-
tion was “not so broad as to make
actionable those discharges of at-will
employees which violate only private
rights of interest,” and Byrd felt that
the discharge of Heatley was a private
interest and not a matter of public policy,
he dismissed this count.

The ﬁnal count, IV, inwhich Heatley
alleged a breach of ﬁduciary duty, Byrd
wrote “Virginia does not recognize the
tort of breach of fiduciary duty.”

Heatley’s lawyer said the lawsuit
should be negatively received by many
people to whom it relates.

“I would imagine that the employ-
ees of Washington and Lee would be
surprised to find that the personnel
manual and faculty handbook which
ostensibly secure many contractual
rights are meaningless,” Smith said.

Washington and Lee’s lawyer was
out of his office this week and could
not be reached for comment.

Nicaragua trip planned
for Washington Break

cause she is a romance

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

If you’re looking for a
place to go for February
break, you might
try Nicaragua.

Junior Jennifer Beam
has begun organizing a
group of Washington and
Lee students to travel to
Nicaragua from Febru-
ary 10-19.

Beam said she went
to Nicaragua in the sum-
mer of ’93 with Bridges
for Community, a non-
profit organization based
in New York City. She
planted trees and con-
structed a school.

She said she had a
good time.

“I thought it was an
experiencedifferent from
the normal W&L experi-
ence,” she said.

She said she went on
the trip to improve her
Spanish. She had been to
Mexico and Yonkers,
New York to do mission
work. Her church raised
money for her to go.

Students will have to
raise money for the trip
on their own. The trip
costs $1200, and a $500

deposit will be due on
January 1. The money
will pay for airfare, trans-
portation and food. Stu-
dents will be provided
housing, probably tents.
She said the students will
probably be working on
a school or housing
project. Beam said the
students would be
going with Bridges
with Community.

Beam said twenty-
ﬁve students have al-
ready shown interest in
the trip.

“I was overwhelmed
at the number of people
who have shown inter-
est,” she said. “It looks
pretty good.”

Junior Phaedra
Cianciulli said she
liked the idea of
helping people.

“I think it’s a good
project because it actu-
ally does something with
the people involved,” she
said. “You actually live
with and work with the
people you’re helping.”

Junior Lisa Smith said
she became interested
when she heard
about Beam’s trip
to Nicaragua.

She said the Nicara-
gua trip intrigued her be-

languages major. She
thought it was a way to
help people.

“We have a lot of op-
portunities to help out
within the Lexington
community,” she said.
“This is just an opportu-
nity to take that to an
international level.”

Beam went to Spain
last spring but has never
been to Central America.
She said she expects to
get a lot out of the trip.

Freshmen David Fos-
ter also thought the trip
was a great opportunity
to help people. He said
the school construction
project attracted him to
the trip.

“I think spreading
education and helping
people is a positive ex-
perience for those who
are going down to help
and those who are re-
oeiving the help,” he said.

Beam said the trip is a
rich, well-rounded edu-
cational experience in
that students can learn
things in any field.

“We’re trying to
heighten awareness
about developing coun-
tries, especially Central
America,” she said.

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World

UN threatens withdrawal, seeks cease-fire

 

The United Nations has decided to withdraw its peacekeeping mission
in Bosnia unless the country reaches a ceaseﬁre. The ultimatum comes
after a week of Serbian agression towards the UN, including taking UN
personnel hostage and stopping supply convoys. The UN hoped that a visit
by Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali will result in a cease-ﬁre of
at least four months.

Yeltsin to declare state of emergency

Russian President Boris Yeltsin threatened to impose a state of emer-
gency in the warring region of Chechnya if ﬁghting does not stop by
Thursday. Chechnya has tried for the last 100 years to secede from Russia,
who is not willing to forfeit the Caucases Mountains and oil deposits in that
region. It is assumed that if the ﬁghting does not stop, Yeltsin will send in
troops to control the area. A

North Korea quit nuclear program, says UN

UN inspectors have veriﬁed that North Korea has halted its nuclear
program and stopped building nuclear reactors in compliance with its
agreement with the United States. A statement from the International
Atomic Energy Agency confirmed that work at the nuclear sites had been
stopped. North Korea agreed to stop its program in return for Western
resources to replace the reactors with other models that produce less
plutonium.

III-fated Achille Lauro sails no more

US naval vessels and merchant ships rescued almost 1,000 people from
the cruise liner Achille lauro as it burned off the coast of Somalia. A ﬁre
that began in the engine room travelled to the sun deck killed two of the 979
people on board. The Achille Lauro made headlines in 1985 when
Palestinian terrorists hihacked the ship and killed a wheelchair bound
passenger from New York

The Nation

Dahmer killed in prison

 

Serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer, infamous for necrophilia and cannibalism
of his victims, was killed Monday in the Wisconsin prison where he was
serving 15 life terms. A prison guard found Dahmer bleeding on the ﬂoor
in the shower area of the prison. A bloody broom stick was found nearby.
The suspect in Dahmer’s death is a convicted murdererwho claimed he was
the Son of God.

Quayle treated for blood clot

Former Vice President Dan Quayle entered an Indiana hospital on
Monday for treatment of a blood clot in the right lung. Doctors say they
are optimistic about his recovery and that the ailment should not affect his
political plans. Quayle is expected to announce a bid for the 1996
Republican Presidential nomination in the coming weeks.

Researchers find fat gene

Scientists have discovered a genetic mutation thought tobe responsiblefor
some types of obesity. The mutation is believed to disrupt the signal that
tells the brain when a person has had enough to eat. Without this signal,
people continue to overeat. This discocery may eventually lead to a
therapeutic drug designed to mimic thehormone so that people can eat less

food and feel satiated.

The State

Farris decides not to run

Michael Farris, the losing Repubiican candidate for Lieutenant Gover-
nor in 1993 said Wednesday he will not run for US Senate in 1996. The
possible remaining candidates for the Republican nomination are incum-
bent Senator John Warner and either James Miller III or Oliver North.

Developers to modify plans for Parkway

In compliance with requests from the Coalition for the Blue Ridge
Parkway, Roanoke County land developers agreed to change plans for a
housing development planned within 200 feet of the Blue Ridge Parkway.
Owners of the four tracts of land have agreedto attend workshops with
architects next year in order to lessen the impact of the development on the
view along the 470 mile parkway.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Emily Baker.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1994

qqpqmumm,-Mmxw.

VMI’s libary closing

     

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

VMI’s Preston Library will be closed beginning in January due to renovations. During the twelve month renova-
tion period, library services will be moved to Lejeune Hall, the Ball Room on the second ﬂoor. Services and collec-
tions housed in Lejeune Hall will be circulation and reserves, reference; current periodicals, current government
documents, videotapes, CD’s, and microforms. Most of the book collection will be stored in a warehousein Lexing-
ton and the VMI library staff will retrieve items from storage daily. W&L students and faculty may call the VMI
circulation desk at 464-7228 to request items from storage to be picked up at Lejeune Hall. VMI’s online catalog can
be accessed for searching via Liberty. VMI faculty and cadets can continue to use the W&L libraries. Cadets must
sign out for a two hour period to use materials at W&L that are not available in their own library.

Webb informs freshmen about ﬁnal exam policy

Webb outlined the basic procedure

Webb went on to outline the EC
violations

going to be hell,” said one student.
honor

By PATRICK WILLIAMSON
Phi Staff Writer

This past Monday Executive Com-
mittee President Kevin Webb met with
the freshman class in Lee Chapel to
inform them of the procedures involved
in exam week.

Because the meeting was manda-
tory, the chapel was packed with first
year students eagerly awaiting what-
ever words of wisdom Webb might
impart to them regarding the week all
students dread.

The meeting actually turned out to
be a short one, because, as all upper-
classmen know, the process of sched-
uling exam periods is really

for the students, explaining the process
of obtaining envelopes, ﬁlling them
out and turning them in to the profes-
sors. In addition, he passed out infor-
mation sheets and sample envelopes to
all present which served as a reminder
of what he had just explained. After
passing out the sheets and folders Webb
proceeded to expound upon the honor
code and its place in the exam system.

“The"opp'oitunity to schedule your
own examinations is a direct reﬂection
of the honor system,” he said.

“Because of the faith the adminis-
tration and the faculty place in the
honor system and in you, you’re al-
lowed to schedule your own exams,
whenever you desire, within the
exam times.”

policy on
during exams.

“Self-scheduling of examinations
opens the door to temptation of dishon-
orable conduct,” Webb stated. He es-
sentially stated that students should be
responsible for their own actions and
that no aspect of any exam should be
disclosed by students to their upon
taking .the exam. He added that if
students ‘continue to uphold the honor
system and act in an honorable man-
ner, “the policy of self-scheduled ex-
aminations will continue to be a W&L
tradition for generations to come.”

Freshman students were naturally
not thrilled at the prospect of enduring
their ﬁrst exam week.

Another student had only good
things to say about the W&L
exam policy.

“If you need time to study for a
particular course, you can schedule the
time for yourself. I think it works
great. . . . For the most part, people
generally seem to care about the honor
system. Many of them came here for
that reason.”

As for themeeting, freshmen were
supportive but tended to agree that
they ’ d rather be spending their evening
doing something else. “The meeting
was helpful in a way. It was needed.
But ten minutes, come on. It was kind
of a waste for them to drag us all out
there for such a short meeting,” re-
marked a student.

quite simple.

“I ’ve got four exams and they are all

Students, Howison discuss mandatory sophomores housing

By Joanna Soto
Phi Staff Writer

Students voiced their opinions on the possible
change in the university housing policy at an open
forum Wednesday night.

Dean Howison organized the forum to get student
reactions on issues that currently face the university.
The main topic of discussion was the possibility of
requiring sophomores to live in campus housing.
The class of 1999 will be the first class to be affected
by the policy.

The idea came about at a Budget and Audit
committee meeting last spring. The administration
wants to create an environment that balances resident
and financial life. Dean Howison told students that
the change in policy was not the university’s way of
raising money.

“Washington and Lee’s budget is as rock solid as

it ever was,” said Howison.

As it stands now only 75 percent of Gaines and
Woods Creek are occupied. If Sophomores were
required to live on campus it would bring an addi-
tional $200,000 in revenue.

Howison said that the money would be used to
improve student life. One possible use for the money
would be the construction of a student center. How-
ever, no new construction will take place until the
science center is completed.

Howison also said that by taking one hundred
students out of the housing market would put pres-
sure on landlords and real estate agents to lower
prices or improve conditions.

Dean Manning sees the change as a way to im-
prove relations between the students and
the administration.

“I think we need to put more emphasis on institu-
tional loyalty and building community,”
Manning said. .

The students at the forum expressed some con-

cern over the notion that you must sacriﬁce freedom
for community. Other students felt that a sense of
community could not be forced, but must
be voluntary.

One student even went as far as to say that a sense
of community was not worth having to live in Gaines.

“I’d rather live in a dump than in Gaines,” said
junior Andy Olmem.

There were students that felt that it was not unrea-
sonable for the university housing policy to
be changed.

Senior Noelle Parrott thought that sophomores
would appreciate not being rushed into having to ﬁnd
a place to live their sophomore year.

“You shouldn’t have to Worry about signing a lease
when you need to be concentrating on your studies,”
Parrott said.

“Besides, I don’t think living one more year on
campus is too much to ask of students.”

For those students that didn’t get to voice their
opinions, another open forum will be held in January.

Christmas weekend plans to keep students busy

By PETER WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

From Santa hats to gag gifts, Washington and Lee students today begin the
festive rituals of Christmas weekend.

While standard fraternity activities include cocktail parties and bands tomor-
row night, some houses will celebrate with their own traditions.

At Pi Kappa Alpha, sophomores will read a Christmas poem that pokes fun at
the brothers, said president Allen Gillespie. At Sigma Phi Epsilon, pledges will
mock the brothers in a skit and challenge them in a football game. Pi Kappa Phi
president Alan Christensen said the brothers will entertain underprivileged
children Friday afternoon. Phi Kappa Sigma will hold its annual formal dinner,
and Sigma Chi will have its annual semiformal. At Sigma Nu, the brothers are
having their annual formal and plan to keep their fireplace burning from Thursday
to Sunday.

“Whenever people come in, there will be a ﬁre going,” said president
Stephen lnman.

Professors will also have a chance to enjoy W&L’s last Saturday before ﬁnals.
Chi Psi, SAE, and Sigma Nu will host faculty receptions.

Christmas activities are not limited to fraternities. The Pi Beta Phi sorority
will hold a faculty reception Monday. Kappa Kappa Gamma will take pictures
with Santa outside the Co-op for the United Way Wednesday, said philanthropy
chairman Ashley Matthews. Senior Sarah Gilbert said that Xi Pi Xi, “W&L’s
newest sorority,” will hold a Christmas formal next Saturday. The Minority
Student Association will host a party for Lexington children at the Chavis House
Saturday afternoon, said MSA secretary Nova Clarke. Service fraternity Alpha
Phi Omega will initiate seven pledges Sunday and go caroling next Saturday, said
APO president Josh Cook.

Tonight, the Student Activities Board will begin Christmas Weekend with the
band Hootie and the Blowfish at the Pavilion.

“I think we’ve caught a band that is on it’s way up,” said SAB entertainment
director Drew Denbo. “If you like rock and roll, you’ll like these guys.”

SAB President Michael Weinfeld said that tickets have sold well, thanks in
part to extended sale hours and interest at nearby colleges.

Students of drinking age should bring identification to enter the beer garden,

said assistant W&L Security director Steve Tomlinson.

“It should be a good time for everybody although I’ve never heard of Hootie
and the Blowﬁsh,” Tomlinson said.

Law enforcers are also preparing for the big weekend.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard said students should watch out for
underage drinking, drinking in public, and public intoxication.

“We will have the force beefed up for the weekend,” Beard said. “I
recommend that [students] stay inside and keep the music down.”

Alcohol Beverage Control ofﬁcers won’t be on campus because they were not
requested, said ABC Public Relations Coordinator Robert Chapman.

W&L Security and Lexington police can handle the job, Tomlinson said. As
in recent years, security ofﬁcers will visit fraternity houses.

“We’ll have somebody dropping by if time permits,” Tomlinson said. He said
that students should use common sense and not congregate outside parties.

With a wide variety of social traditions, W&L students have many reasons to
look forward to Christmas Weekend. PiKa’s Gillespie offered one reason.

“To ﬁnd out who’s been naughty and nice.”

Scheduled bands for
Saturday Night:

Chi Psi, B, S, & M,

Kappa Alpha, The Stegmonds

Kappa Sigma, Southern Legends

Lambda Chi Alpha, Doug Clark & The Hot Nuts
Phi Delta Theta and Beta Theta Pi, Uncle Mingo
Phi Kappa Psi, The Press

Pi Kappa Alpha, Fighting Gravity (formerly Boy 0 Boy)
Pi Kappa Phi, Jupiter Cayote

Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Jimmy Smoothie

Sigma Chi, Curiosity Shoppe

Sigma Nu, Red Hot Smoothies 1
Sigma Phi Epsilon, No Small Feat

 
 

A

 

 

R
The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1994

W&L ife 

‘Passion and con roversg color Come Down Burning

’ Plagwrighl Kia Corthron eloquentlg wrestles with the abortion issue in Lenfests latest production

By DAN ODENWALD
‘E Phi Staff Writer

  

Kia Corthron believes that important and
valuable theater needs to have passion.
This would explain why the widely ac-

" claimed playwright focuses on current contro-

versial political issues. Political debates stir
emotion and feeling, and that is precisely what
Corthron wants.

“I consider my play a success if just one

A person leaves the theater differently than he

came in,” said Corthron.

Come Down Burning , a 1993 play written
by Corthron, will be part of the play reading
series offered by the Lenfest Center this week-
end.

The work focuses on three black women
growing up in poverty in a small Southern
town. The play deals with the emotional issue
of abortion. Moreover, the work questions the
plight of poor women faced with matters of

‘ choice.

“The central political issue was that of choice.
The play is about overcoming barriers. I focus
on sibling rivalry and health issues,” said
Corthron. Corthron also examines the contrast
between female characters, one of whom is
paralyzed.

“I wanted to compare the power between the
women in the play. The main character is
physically handicapped, but is the most psy-
chologically powerful,” said Corthron.

Theater professor Tom Zeigler sought
Corthron after their mutual agent recommended
her work. After reading her play, he decided
that as a member of the Glasgow Committee, a
group with access to an endowment fund that

pays for visiting performers, he "
would invite Corthron to Wash- ’
ington and Lee.

“The play was exciting be-
cause it’s controversial. The
characters are forced to make
extreme decisions because of
the economic pressures on them
which is a result of their race,”
said Ziegler.

Zeigler is also interested in
audience reaction, especially at
W&L. .

“I’m very interested in see-
ing how the students will re-
spond,” said Zeigler.

Corthron was unable to pre-
dict how W&L audiences will
receive her play.

She did comment, however,
on a similarly conservative
Connecticut audience who had
recently seen her play.

“Some people were visibly
moved by the play, while oth-
ers were quite hostile,” said
Corthron.

Corthron expects varying
emotional responses from au-
dience members when they see
her plays.

Politically, she classifies
herself as more liberal than
Bill Clinton.

Therefore, she is met with
some disagreement from the
more conservative elements in
her audiences.

Her stands on political issues come out in
her plays because she chooses to write about
them.

“A lot of theater is passionless. It doesn’t
make you think, and while entertaining, it’s
mostly mindless sit-com,” said Corthron.

A 1992 MFA graduate from Columbia University, Kia
Corthron‘s works have won numerous awards, including the
1993 New Professional Theatre Play Writing Contest andthe
Delaware Theatre Company's contest.

Given the new hostility to the political-
correctness movement, it would seem that
Corthron’s ideas would be subject to attack.
The playwright doesn’t believe in political cor-
rectness as an idea.

“Personally, I believe the term came from

conservatives as a way to im-
ply that one’s beliefs are both-
ering someone else. Every
person should be allowed to
listen to their conscience,”
said Corthron.

Corthron is currently
working on a play that deals
with the death penalty. The
plot centers on historical ﬁg-
ures Nat Turner and Crazy
Horse, both of whom
Corthron considers remark-
able people, who are on death
row.

Undoubtedly, the play will
spark an interesting debate
on capital punishment.

Ziegler chose C omeDown
Burning because he wanted
to involve more students in
Lenfest productions.

“We look for every op-
portunity to get more students
involved in the department.
For this play, we looked for
more minority students espe-
cially,” said Ziegler.

In fact, the entire cast is
made up of members of the
Minority Students Associa-
tion.

“It’s a disturbing play be-
cause it deals with abortion in
a time before Roe v. Wade.
It’s more about a relationship
between two sisters than about
abortion,” said Michael
Hewlett ’96, one of the play’s performers.

The play reading series is an experiment of
Lenfest, and the staff hopes to get a positive
response.

Students in Zeigler’s play writing class
will have their original work presented Satur-

Publicity Photo

‘Dam/vire tetfs a mystifying tafe

C.

     
 

2
1 4" J 1' 1'
"-I: By KIRK SUSONG
— -

Phi Movie Reviewer

Interview with the Vampire — rﬁnfr

Interview with the Vampire is a very
interesting ﬁlm, but it leads a double
life. For all the fans of Anne Rice out
there, it is surely a work to be savored,
a splendid, beautiful and gilded movie
that finally brings all those readers’
personal imaginations to the big screen.
But for the rest of us who haven’t
read her books, it is merely a gaudy,
confusing and thoroughly sordid tale.
The premise is that a young re-
porter, Malloy (Christian Slater), is

I interviewing a vampire, Louis (Brad

Pitt), whom he has met on the streets of
San Francisco. His recollections
form the body of the movie. M .. 3,
He begins in 1791, in New
Orleans, as a rich, young, re-
cently widowed, plantation ..
owner. He is approached by the '
vampire Lestat (Tom Cruise) who  .

offers him the chance at immortal- 5.

ity and a new life.

Louis accepts, only to quickly dis-

cover that he is still too in touch with
his human side: he hates killing people
just so he can feast on their blood.
Instead, he must suck the life from rats,
chickens, poodles, etc.

Lestat ﬁnds this absurd, and re]-
ishes the death of at least one fresh, ripe
maiden a night. The tension between
the two steadily increases, and Louis
considers leaving behind his
compatriot’s wicked ways.

But, Lestat won’t have that, so he
creates a family for them, by vampire-
izing a young girl, Claudia (Kristen
Dunst). The three become the best of
friends as they go on theirnightly quests
for that red, red wine.

Over the years, tensions come up,
and the three become increasingly tired
of one another.

Claudia is especially resentful be-
cause she will never grow up and be-
come a fully-bosomed woman; when
Lestat turns a deaf ear to her problems,
she decides to kill him.

First she has him drink blood from
a corpse (apparently quite bad for a
vampire’s constitution), then she slits
his neck and has Louis throw him in the
swamp for the alligators to prey upon.

But killing a vampire is no easy
task. Lestat comes back with a ven-
geance, and ﬁnally Louis must set him
aﬁre to stop him. Louis and Claudia
decide to leave America to search out
other vampires around the world.

They search futilely for many years,
but ﬁnally come across a whole horde
of them in Paris, led by the graceful
Armand (Antonio Banderas).

It turns out that Armand is looking
for a vampire in touch with the modern
age, and he thinks Louis is the best man

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    

for the job. And, Louis discovers that
Armand is willing to answer all those
questions about vampires Lestat
wouldn’t touch.

Unfortunately, the other vampires
have all heard about Claudia’s attempts
to do in Lestat and are quite upset she
tried to kill one of their own kind. _

They capture her and expose her to
the sunlight, crumbling her to dust.
Since Louis was her accomplice, they
decide to lock him in a cofﬁn for a
hundred years, walled up in the dark
depths of their catacombs.

Armand comes to the rescue, and is
able to get Louis out of the cofﬁn, but
too late to save Claudia. Louis is so
heart-broken over the death of the girl,
whom he had always considered a
daughter, that he decides to burn all the
vampires to death as they sleep in
their cofﬁns.

The result is lots of gore,
and the only

people 1 e f t
standing from the
mess are Armand and
Louis.

Armand hopes that Louis will join
him in a new beginning, as two thor-
oughly modern vampires learning to
love life again. Louis rejects this idea,
and instead moves back to New Or-
leans on his own.

Then one night, after having
watched Tequila Sunrise at a movie
theater, Louis begins to poke around an

old, deserted house.

Inside, he ﬁnds none other than his
old friend, Lestat, now quite weak as
far as vampires go, but rarin’ to get
back out to the killing, if only Louis
will help. Louis refuses, and walks out
of Lestat’s life.

By this point the story has ﬁnally
returned to the present day, and so at
the end of the interview Malloy is left
absolutely stunned by all that he
has heard.

He wants Louis to make him a vam-
pire, too. But Louis is still a discon-
tented vampire, and realizes he has
utterly failed to convince Malloy of the
psychological hell that being a vam-
pire is. Louis storms out angrily.

The movie ends as Malloy drives
away (to a Guns ‘N’ Roses version of
“Sympathy for the Devil”); in the very
end he is caught by a feeble Lestat, who
is willing to give him the same chance
he gave to Louis two-hundred years
previous, and thus start the cycle all
over again.

This movie is marked by a tremen-
dous richness, a wealth of fabrics and
colors and music and sets.

Director Neil Jordan does an ad-
equate if uneven job telling the story,
occasionally lapsing into long, slow,
tepid shots before jumping back into
sudden, harsh, quickly clipped shots.
The difference is unsettling and not
appropriate to the luxury of the scenes.

But the acting is pretty good consid-
ering the bizarre characters the actors
are performing.

There is a certain melodrama about
the way the lines are delivered, either
shouted in anger or whis-

fulness;

perhaps that
is unavoidable
when playing these noble, evil crea-
tures of the night.

The big huff over the choice of Tom
Cruise for Lestat seemed overblown to
me. He neither butchered the job, nor
did he excel particularly; on the whole,
Antonio Banderas and Kristen Dunst
have the strongest performances,
though Brad Pitt does a ﬁne job as well.

The biggest drawback is the screen-
play of the movie. For someone who
has actually read some of Anne Rice’s
works, this movie might seem totally
different, but I was confused through-
out.

It is clear that Rice wants to address
not just the romance and mystery of
vampires, but also the everyday prob-
lems they might face, and even the
deeper metaphysical problems they
would consider.

So some silly, mundane things get
emphasized way too much. For ex-
ample, there is astrong veinofbloodlust
running through the ﬁlm, focusing on
where Louis will ﬁnd his next meal;
blood runs constantly and plentifully

pered in feigned  mg“ 

day night, along with Corthron’s play on Friday
night. Zeigler points to the beneﬁts of play
reading as opposes to full scale productions.

“The play reading focuses on the writer.
The audience sees the script alone. With full
scale productions, many people inﬂuence the
work from the director to the actors. The script,
itself, may be lost,” said Zeigler.

Time constraints also was a factor in choos-
ing to do play readings. With the short time
available between the close of the fall produc-
tion and the Christmas Break, play readings are
ideal for they require less preparation than an
elaborate production.

Louise Uffelman, Lenfest Center Assistant
Manager, said, “The play readings offer some-
thing different and provide for a different kind
of theater. It’s more informal and ﬁts into the
schedule.” I .

Audience members are invited to remain
after the performance to discuss the plays.
Audience members can voice their opinions
and share any thoughts about the presented
work.

Uffelman expressed concern about the
plethora of other activities planned for this
weekend that would compete with the play
readings.

With the Hootie and the Blowﬁsh concert
sponsored by the Student Activities Board and
the fraternity Christmas formals scheduled at
the same times as the play readings, audience
turnout may be limited.

Nonetheless, the Lenfest crew is hoping for
a healthy showing.

Come Down Burning will be presented
Friday night at 8:00 p.m. in the Johnson The-
ater. Original student works by Megan Duncan
’95, Ashlie Kauffman ’95, Frank Christian Olah
’96, T. Jason Shaffer ’97, and Daniel Tipton ’97
will be presented on Saturday night at 8:00 p.m.
Uffelman is uncertain if the play reading series
will become a regular event at the Lenfest

in most of the shots.

Conversely, some very interesting
points receive attention that we might
not normally think would be addressed.

For example, the fact that vampires
never age means that Claudia will never
grow up, a point of anger for this forty-
year old pre—pubescent.

Similarly, Louis is very much op-
posed to taking human life, the most
natural thing in the world for a vam-
pire. The result is a sort of twentieth-
century existentialist vampire, one
caught up in a struggle against his
own nature.

Movies are fun when they construct
a fabulous, imaginary world we can
escape to for hours. But they also must
not create a world with question marks,
and that is what Interview with the
Vampire does.

We are ﬁlled with numerous unan- of Forrest Gun-9%
swered questions about the characters  ,

and vampires in general. ”<f»§§
How does the ’
feeble Lestat live
V since hecan’tleave
his house to eat?
Why sleep in
cofﬁns and not just
dark rooms?
Where do Louis and
Lestat get their fabulous
= ' wealth? Can vampires have
children? Why is Annand so
fascinated by Louis?
The subject matter is exotic
and mysterious enough for a thou-
sand questions to leap into your
mind, and it is frustrating for them not
to be answered.

Interview with the Vampire is a
sumptuous film, with plenty of blood
and lots of cool-looking characters.
There is a healthy dose of humor, not
enough to detract from the drama of
the plot.

But we are left with many questions
about what is going on. Unless you
have read the novels, you are likely to
be left mystiﬁed by this glittering, con-
fusing ﬁlm.

It’s probably worth seeing at a dol-
lar theatre, but I think it’s too serious to
be much fun as a rented video on an
alcohol-soaked Friday night.

Rating Scale

ﬁrﬁrﬁrrfz - Go buy this as soon as it comes
out on video. It is an instant classic. “You’ll
laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you'll
learn something about yourself.”

rm-rt -Go see this film now, while it’sstill
on the big screen. It’s worth a few Oscar nomi-
nations and the seven bucks you'll pay if you
see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better
than Cats!”

{H}-Okay,sotherehave beenbetterﬁlms.
Nevertheless, it is a good example of its genre,
and you should probably see it on videotape.
Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

*1‘: - It happens to be on HBO, and you’re
blowing off tomorrow’sreading. Although your
time would probably be better served on your
education, its free and you’re bored, so go
ahead and watch it.

0 - Even if its free and your best friend said
he never laughed harder, trust me, this one

sucks. Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t
waste it on this. (There's always MTV.)

3. Forrest Gunip,

6. Like waiérf,
$5.99.) Life  ‘

 

7. Embraced by elnght,

a child’s mysterious death.

New mi

(Pocket, $6.50.)

imagine.

them apart.

(’&A,(p «.45 F9?
Beiiieiiefi

1.Disclosure, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $6.99.) Sexual harass-
ment in a West Coast electronics ﬁrm.

2. The Shipping News, by E. Annie Prouix. (Touchstone, $12.00.)
Newspaperrnan returns to his childhood

byiWinston Groom. (Pocket, $5.503} Simple Alabama
man journeys through three deca A

4.   _

by
$5.99.) A wom2fn=isﬁng;€ar-death“e%Vrietice. V

8. Without  Tom Clancy. (Be
prisoners held in Nortlrélietrig W"

""f(<7n9”¢...y,....‘.-,«.1.:$3;¢'ae\!‘M

Inf

9. Smilla ’s Sense ofSnow, by Peter.Hoeg. (Dell, $6.50.) Investigation of

 A History of God, by Karen Armstrong. (Ballantine, $14.00.)
History of monotheism - from classical philosophy to today’s skepticism.

A Cry in the Night, by Mary Higgins Clark.

When Jenny MacPartland is whisked away into a life of luxury by a
wealthy artist, she knew she’d grow to love living on his Minnesota farm.
Until shattering events reveal the link to a past more horrifying than she dared

Slow Waltz in Cedar Bend, by Robert James
Waller. (Warner, $4.99.)

Poignant tale of bittersweet love - not even continents and oceans can keep

Everything you Need to Know About Latino
History, by Himilce Novas. (Plume, $10.95.)

A complete, fun-to-browse history of Hispanic American culture.

Center.
ack

home after death of his wife.

4.;
~" “.. ‘N.
‘‘\.{57.‘

American History.»

   
  
 
 
    

  (Bantam,


..:i. “
 The rescue of
. _m.»a9*"‘*“""

(ea MMQKJEJ  

r

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1994
W&LIFE 9

MIXED MEDIA
bY Jack Ohman V q

 

   

 

  

   

   
 

       
     
      

 
 

 
 
    
 
  

 
 

     
 
 

 
     
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
 

  

   

  

Pou11(Aw/ (oRRE(1’ MORTAL ‘ %AT§Q:E§vE;Iy€    ~ ’
V'°‘° S’-“‘“"‘5 KONSENSUS .. WAS A MART|AN..’{’ MAY um new 5”” ‘$'5,“.-’{$"
rep me BUILDER  I _, cg encounrensz THE HIDDEN mum (cc)  "0"
Wm ®  ‘TTREET Hfegziiggoingffniiliﬁﬁ Monroe was killed to I 3
FACILIIATQR in cover up her knowledge of extraterrestrials.
mi --FROM TV Guioe, 10-23-94...
°199‘rmbu"°M°dias°M°°s' Inc‘ "44 @1994 Tribune Media Services Inc. G
”'R’°m‘R°‘°"°d‘  l Allﬂightsﬁeserved. '
Specializing in Unﬁnished included with Spring nmmp  ~' ' A ’ V L11 COIFO
Furniture and Shades   , , ,
_ . *3’  ffﬁe sotution to ﬁoftoay gift
19 S R d 1 h St Leave your bike before ’
Lexin'gt “’)Ap2445'0 Christmas break - pick up by ,Pr°6(em5~ G'1,ftWT“P. S sﬁtpyiﬂg. gift ‘I
' Mam“ 10 voucﬁers, advice and ﬁefp - Amex, ‘Uisa, and
463-2742 130 South Main St. Mastercarb Wetcome
...,,..,..[ regular U-1flC'1lp $28, parts or 1 wasrwasmncrou STREET LEXINGTON VIRGINIA 24450 3
' “ ' ' ' damage repair additional "”“"°“"“‘“’ '
 Kll’ c 52 3 

y maowtne stones *3’ e y  O r n e r :    co’ E

I ., . n  On Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington : :

HaI‘dWare- Paint, and Related.I‘.tems "The tradition continues” : ; ~ ‘

‘ G Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea., : o

I Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. .~ S_IiIri;:..1_ur5=p.nn.‘ d°"°i°U5 330 Sandwiches 51-39 3 B O r 0‘ I I I
i E. Nelson St'., Lexington 4'63-'2i"8‘5'“ mp’ MW '3“ bee/r’$l1q%0cream s°da' ' it \ '
1} , ~ — -I cans . o ( ) ;.ﬁ> ( G M 3

’ Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .069/gal. 2 ‘OX /6 ' ‘”':‘w‘,7.‘» Gil <’<'\\ /pl’ r{%\j:y’- ' - V
K / l t’ / T l 1 F A.‘  ’»
Unleaded Plus - $1.129/gal. : (jiggle; 34. d“—/_s/ {{y’;‘;jf=. e ?«f{;";”: 5°52‘-:93  3
Natural Light  :
$4.29/12 pack - $8.50/case . C D   DEC 6l3l’l : ’
cﬂemsmgezdl/(om,$ac[, 4° 'b- ‘°° ' $4-99 3 1 00 Z
0 . .
B1Otg£_LA~L,1m As A_Iways, We Provide The Best ; ' P°m- 5 ,
Service For The W&L Commumty 5 25 s. Jefferson 464-4050 :
Open 7 Days 463-5452 Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprletors cl: l.l.a'.m.' ‘fig ZT:'T'.N£°."‘.ia.y  Friday» Sat“TdaY 11 a-m- ' 5 P-m~ :
Pick up W&L hats, sweats, &  ‘es
tees before you leave . a .. . .
Lexington for the holidays. 3)‘)  AlV1n'DenT11S9 Inc-
! 102 W. Washington St.
‘ I
from - 9 -
' 1‘.h.i§Jl¢&l<_s§D_¢.c1_al
9Lz1tg£a,né‘PO1tﬁ' / /, ) Outerwear Suits, Sportcoats and Dress ‘
1 15 W. Nelson St.      . , T01’ C°at5 20% °ff
Lexington’s Complete Sporting Goods Store 9/ /   & * Duckhead _W&L Belts’ Ties, ‘
-Red Wing Boots Dog Collars

lllllllll Illlllllllllllll llllllllll lllllllll lllllllllllllllllll HAIRSTYLIST & TANNERY

  

-Ray Bans -Xmas Ties & Boxers 
_ _ . -Shoes by Bass & -Flannel Shirts
Winter is here but the rays are shining brighter than wanmver xruxedos
H R I I ever here with our new tanning beds. -Cotton Sweaters -Flasks
Cg!‘ GHT' ' ’ ONLY IN DECEMBER - 10 visits for $35 ‘W&L Kn“ Shim am’ S‘”ea‘~°"‘i"S l T

          
    

 
   
    

 
  

So RIGHT!

Send the rrrr

Starlight" Bouquet \ .

This star- topped centerpiece . :

makes a perfectly elegant FREE GIFT WRAPPING &

Sm T0’ 50039 0'' 075°‘! GIFT CERTIFICATES AVAILABLE
Stop by or call for an appointment. 463-5383 ,
25 N. Main St. , Lexington 4 6 3 -6 o 03 ‘SA MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE

 

MINORITY JUNIORS & SENIORS:
Get your resume to the nation’s
top employers! FREE!

There is absolutely no cost to you. Simply send or fax your
resume.  to:

Crimson & Brown Associates, Inc.
1770 Mass. Avenue, Suite 332

Cambridge, MA 02140
(617) 868-0181 phone (617) 868-0187 fax

Deadline: December 2

P,\R'i‘I.\i. (Vlll-'.i'\"l‘ Lisr
.\Icrrill l._\nch - ("miipuq ' |'\'lcl\'in.sc_\' ° Time ' Pli/.cr ' (‘iiilrmk - (;.\l
(i«>ldm.'in Siiclis ' (‘amid NiI.\l ' The l’c(lcI';i| RL‘St.‘l'\'L.‘ ° lizsinc ° l’iml«_~nIi;il
so I.\.\ Bllllk - Arthur /\ll(lL‘l'.\'L‘Il ° and mzmy niurc!

$FoR LOWEST AIRFARES CALLS '

TLC TRAVEL

Your ' I
Airline Reservation & Ticketing Center ‘

463-2 197

    
       
    

Amtrak - Tours - Cruises - Hotel/ Car

   
   
 
 

Student Discounts May Apply
Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Saturday 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
All Major Credit Cards Accepted

16 W. Washin on St.

      

-j'g»---bu-aid-I..o'Inr'u‘u-u-I‘:---I--

I
uiII—c1iRD. BOX 220645 . HOLLYWOOD. FL 330-22

7.  [want Immediately.

100% IIIIIIIINTEEDI

   
 
  
  
   

_Nov_I'»you an luv: the IP09! R°°E““°d -
Cledll an! In (ﬁe SOIHEVENIFYOUARENEWIN
CRED|Tu'HAVEBE%'IURN1&NBEl'OREI

Miisteicudo the credit card‘ you

deserve and need foI— lD—wOKS—DBPARl‘MEN1'
. S1‘ORES—1‘UI'l'ION-—EN'l‘ER1‘AlNM EN!‘-
BMBRGEMZY (‘ASH--TDKI-‘.1S—RESTAURAN1‘S—
HO.TEl.s—M(Tl1-ZLS-G\S—CAR RENTALS-
REPAtRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RA11NG|

YOU SAY
YOU CAN RIDE?
PROVE IT.

Unlicensed riders account for 80%
of the fatalities in some states.

3%?
El‘!

sruoarm !.e§_._L>_. ssv

 

So get yoiér mxtpdrcycle operator No tlInr:'do:lIsI!“! X
license to ay. prove ‘ No I: t c ecv
that you are a better rider “§Y  No security deposit! 
Mm-oncyclg SAFETY Fouﬂmtiou : vhﬁbﬁﬁié‘ ,,,cIk - I0!!! MCQM II I Iﬁmcd tndeunlk d Ilataﬁtd lnhmdlorinl. In.
C’ o\\"‘° SENDTHE COUPON TODAY

MAIL THIS N0 RISK ('()lll‘()N T()I)x\Y

 

YouR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING!

I
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

' I
STAT!-:_.ZlP____*- :
I

I

I
I
I
J 5:

 

   

The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1994 "AI"-'3 5

ADS

I
© I994 Citibank (South Dakota), NA.

"I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

..I

CHEAP FLIGHTS:

>-)- Fly standby.
It's like camping out for concerts,
but the people bathe.

*)- Buy your tickets in August.
That's when airfares are lowest.
Consider reserving a vegetarian meal.

>-)- Look into courier flights.
Ask what you'll be delivering. So you
don’t end up in aThird World prison.

>-)- Organize a charter.
Bring your friends. lf you have none,
classmates and relatives will do.

>-)- Get a Citibank Classic card.
You’ll get discounts off domestic and
international*‘ ﬂights.

*Get an ISE International Student ID. card to qualify for international
ﬂights and other travel related savings.

WE'RE LOOKING OUT FOFI YOU.‘
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.

I
--n--:—-11111111111111:-—1x111;1--11-11111¢—1-—111111111:u——-—-—-
111111:—:n—-1—u-—uu——-:1111:1-11-—u—1111111:1—--u-u——n1—--nu----111-—-u-an

   

  

PAGE 6

(‘I112 iﬂing-tum lﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

 

All we want for Christmas...

We have come once again to a time redolent with tradition.
The Ring-tum Phi cannot escapte its Christmas editorial tradi-
tion; that of the long-awaited Ring-tum Phi Christmas wish
list.

Washington and Lee University—A successor for Presi-
dent John D. Wilson who is half as charismatic and innovative
as our current president.

Dean Dennis Manning—Students standing in line to cap-
ture coveted spots in Gaines Hall. ’

Washington and Lee Athletic Department—Verne
Canﬁeld, II (How about the “Verne Canfield Gymnasium”?).

Andrew Schneider—A glow-in-the-dark diploma.

The staff of The Ring-tum Phi—Careers outside of jour-
nalism (except, of course, Keith and Emily, who would rather
have high-paying jobs inside (?!?) journalism).

President John D. Wilson—-Greener pastures.
retirement!

W&L Student Body—Classes on Saturday....Wait, we
already have that!

Executive Committee——A really nice dinner sponsored by
anyone but the student body (I’m a really good cook, Kevinl).
They really work hard. Seriously.

Fancy Dress Committee—To be left in B0 Thorpe’s will.

The Trident—A publications board of their own.

The Calyx—Photos of every student at Washington and
Lee, and a few women’s college students thrown in for good
measure.

Melissa Cox-—Tenure. (We won’t stop until we get what we
want.)

Live Drive——Sober drivers.

Freshman Pledges--Hazing policy enforced.

ACLU—The Delt house.

Mock Conventi_on——Jesse Helms (and bodyguard) for the
spring kick—off.

W&L Students—An unlimited supply of personalized
“Dubynel” license plates.

Our friends at women’s colleges-—Lamar Villere’s head
on a platter.

College Republicans and College Democrats-—A Dou
Thiessen/Nova Clarke match on the Dating Game. '

Dean David Howison—-Some new balls. Bocce balls, we
mean.

Dabney Stuart and Edwin Craun—Anonymity.

Alcohol survey—Some alcoholics who care.

Carol CauIkins—A nice bottle of Chianti.

Harb’s——Polite and helpful waitresses.

The City of Lexington—Taxes on excessive noise.

Dean Anne Schroer-Lamont—An office in Washington
Hall.

Michelle Richardson—A tall dark handsome stranger.

Officer R. D. Clark—The 1995 model of his golf cart.

Happy

Quote of the Week...

“Do you go to Ho1lins?”

——0ne Washington and Lee man to another.

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1994

 

‘Loos, I'M qonU'15Acl< To Tile £0155. Wt qotm qt‘! some 31Up\ﬂpq pom! '

Cllii: ‘tiling-tum lﬂlii

Ilaizicaiitliye Egiﬁpr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert
~...%.i... . ."_'.‘::.'.'.':::.'.:1:111::1:1:::::::::::::;g.;.;.;‘.;;i;; '.§ii‘.i.'..°.ZI‘.°“
Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .,Anne Alvorﬁip

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer Bunn Won

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , Betsz Greergi

gixoriﬁll Eartozrist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

i on age istant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

 lglanager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Ad‘/1: ulslilness Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Adv nising A anager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Cimql ipingMssistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

a‘ ion anager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-mm Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does

not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

Keep your god out of my public school

THE FAR MIDDLE

Alex’ Christensen

Prayer in school has become a hot
issue recently, due to Newt Gingrich’s
miscalculated, Clinton-gays-in-the-
military-esque sop to the extremists in
his party, declaring that a constitu-
tional amendment to allow voluntary
prayer in public schools will soon see
the light of day in the new
Republican Congress.

I believe in prayer in school. There
were many times when I was in the
public schools when I would stop and
say a little prayerto Thor, asking him to
destroy one particular enemy or other
of mine with his mighty thunder ham-
mer, Miolnir. It was important to me.
I wore a silver thunder hammer around
my neck almost every day. Religion
was a part of my daily life, at home and
at school, or wherever I was. Yet not
once in my entire career did I suggest
that everyone shut up while the teacher
or myself or another student stood up
during class time and prayed aloud or
silently to the god of thunder.

This was and is a pretty basic idea to
me. I won’t bother you about not
worshipping Thor, as I do, and you
won’t bother me about not worship-
,ping Jehovah, Jesus Christ, Allah,
iBeelzebub, etc. We can all study to-
-gether and work together without the
bother caused by bringing religion
into everything.

Of course, had I chosen to attend a
Lutheran school or a Catholic school, I
would have had no choice but to go
along with whatever prayers or cer-
emonies they required of their students.

- But I didn’t.

I went to a public school, and if
anyone had tried to pray aloud during
class, to my god or any other, I would
have asked him to remain quiet, or

leave. I would have been perfectly
within my rights. I did not attend
school to be proselytized or forced into
any denominational or
nondenominational worship. I attended
school to learn.

So why are some people (a great
majority if you believe the polls, which
I tend not to) so
insistent on ei-

attention was not demanded by
classwork, between classes, at recess,
at lunch and after school. Nothing has
to be enforced, no one has to be forced
to endure another’s religious practices.

Let’s see. ..it’s not to solve any prob-
lem, it’s not a free speech
issue...hmmm...maybe if we all think

they cannot. School is for learning,
and I don’t have to pay my tax dollars
to respect your prayer when I am there
to learn. Just to make it fair, you don’t
have to respect mine either. The Con-
stitution very much carves out a place
for freedom from religion as well as
freedom of religion. I’ll respect your
religion when
you practice it

ther teacher— or
s t u d e n t - l e d
prayer or a “mo-
mentofsilence”
in which
s t u d e n t s
may “reflect”?

It’s not be-
cause things
started going
downhill in this
country when
prayer was
taken out of the
schools. As
Madalyn Murry
0 ’Hair, founder
of American
Atheist and the
plaintiff in the
Supreme Court
case which took
prayeroutof the
schools has said, people have been
praying everyday in churches and
homes across America, despite the de-
cision on prayer in schools, and the
problems we faced are still with us. So
why force little Jewish, Buddhist and
Norse pagan school kids to pray every
day to Christianity’s god? If this pray-
ing were going to solve our crises, it
would surely have done so by now. It
obviously has little effect.

It’s not a free speech issue. As long
as it does not disrupt the class, a student
could pray nearly all the time in a
public school without being punished
or bothered. If parents chose, they
could teach their kids to pray before

   

A school, in the classroom whenevertheir

...wl'xen it comes to school

Yrayer, I think a moment of

silence is like kissing
your Sister‘...

yourself and

  

      
    

hard, we could come up with a
reason...thinking?...think hard...

Hey, I’ve got it! It’s pretty simple,
actually. They want your children.
They want them as a captive audience,
forced to either participate in or watch
others participate in worshipping some
arbitrary deity (whichever one has the
most adherents in a particular school
district, presumably the Christian god
in most of the country). In some less
polite circles, it’s called “brainwash-
ing.” lt’s practitioners have been re-
ferred to as “the Thought Police.”

Couldn’t students who don’t want
to pray just be quiet and respectful for
one moment while those who do want
to pray do it silently? My answer is no,

lllin) other words, sure,
lm in favor of ii.

 

don’t try to force
it on anyone
against their
will.

The very ex-
istence of a mo-
ment of silence
suggests that
praying is a thing
for which author-
ity ﬁgures, who
represent the
government and
who presumably
command re-
spect among stu-
dents, have set
aside a special
time. No atheist
students or stu-
dents whose reli-
gions forbid pub-
lic prayer or require elaborate praying
rites feel comfortable having their be-
liefs denigrated by the state in this way.

To you Christians who still are not
convinced, go back to Matthew, to the
Sermon on the Mount, and find out
what Jesus said about prayer in public.
He called those who do their good
works or pray in public hypocrites and
he told his followers that their prayers
should be private, between them and
their god. Ostentatious or enforced
displays of piety are not Christian.

Prayer is wonderful, in school or
out, as long as there is no coercion, or
even implied endorsement. Let’s just
leave it out of the daily curriculum of
our public schools.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1994

G

OPINION

. A Guide to Christmas in Lexington

DREAM LAND

‘ Richard Weaver
This Christmas season has arrived,

and with it comes this very special
Christmas News Capsule. It’s designed

.‘ to make you just a little bit more infor-

mation about the structured, organized,

Green, in that she has the same dispo-
sition and grasp of humor as Lt. Data.

But, of course, Christmas is not all
gift-giving. Flashing ambulance lights
and airborne candies are involved. I’m
talking about Christmas parades. Sev-
eral weeks ago I picked up a copy of
The Rockbridge Weekly out of my
mailbox and read
that this year in

ers, I thought, hey, what else could
symbolize the Yuletide season in Buena
Vista better? There deﬁnitely were
some close runners-up.

My personal favorites of the parade
included the U.S. Postal truck. Postal
workers tossed our pieces of mail to the
crowd. Just kidding-——they threw candy

at the crowd,
s o m e t i m e s

assume thatwinter-weather-hardiness
was a key talent needed to win their
respective crowns, with the swimsuit
and gunmanship competitions far be-
hind.

Some of the dressed-up little
women in the parade weren’t even
human. A group of ﬁfteen or so women
marched in the parade carrying their
dolls, dressed up in their Christmas

and mandatory holiday spirit you will Buena Vista the with pretty ﬁnest. The dolls did not throw candy.

endure this month in Lexington. Pay Christmas parade 6 € go0d_ alm. Speaking of stiff part_icippcp:,"a

 W°:‘d:W,:°";  2si::2“.:::s::::‘é:..:?:.;*‘;1:....;..;
' ' h t' fth tes or es ,

1  Znilmlieg stufleliietgrgliilthi-ll Decorated Farm There ‘.903 "0 _deC?"ated there were also lion overlooking Sarita’s shoulder. I
around a warm ﬁre in their hearth (ior, Eqliéplment. th_ farm equipment 1" S;ght_ It :ihl;););)fa%jl;nS at itfIti%orIri;:)ﬂtezi]ilrlicl:prli)0v;i(l)lrrgaﬂccsa
if they live in the dorms, aroun a ‘ 0W1ng_ 18 all a clever ruse. In_ ~_ '
trashcan ﬁre near the dorm counselor’s in f o r m a t 1 o n waﬁd h Ch _ A °°I:jl}n' f“_3Yb° 9"?“ Yogi‘ Parents! ﬁlls‘ chefclk
room) and desperately thinkofwhat to would be realtly sted ,t e d r;stnza:pa- gpélststifjsplllczlﬁtzs :1t(1)pn21es'aP1eceo uggagew enyou y
give their loved ones for Christmas. interes ing 0 ra e eature t ree ra - ~ _ ,

‘ It’s an unfortunate fact that Christmas readerswhowarit racinfcars decorated witﬁ o u f I a g e The BV CllflSlIl':1aS palraiiﬁ wasnt
comes at a time when students’ bank to decorate their g marchedcarry- all fun and games,t oug . ere was

accounts are functioning only on money
fumes, not actual cash.

But great, inexpensive gifts for the

“ family are within an arrn’s reach if you
know where to look. For example,
W&L belts from Alvin-Dennis make
great headbands. Parents also love take-
out from Letitia Pate Evans Dining

p Hall.

For those of you with money, my
survey of stores in Florida during my
Thanksgiving break revealed there is a
large amount of merchandise suitable
for gift giving, at a reasonable price. At

I a Hallmark store I found a Star Trek
series Klingon Bird of Prey Christmas
ornament with ﬂashing laser lights.
This would be a great gift for Betsy

own farm equiP- Christmas lights. “'8 “Whine
merit at home for guns. One Of
the holidays, I de- them hﬁld 3 ba-
cided, hey, let’s z00ka-

make the BV Thesoldiers

Christmas parade a stop on the Dream
Land World Tour. I left for BV with
Phi Reader Greg Hunt in tow.

But, boy, were we in for a surprise.
There was no decorated farm equip-
ment in sight. It was all a clever ruse.
Instead, the BV Christmas parade fea-
tured three drag racing cars decorated
with Christmas lights. Two of the drag
racers, one of which was called “Danc-
ing Death,” were pulled by 4-wheeled
Honda motorcycles.

When I saw the Christmas drag rac-

LETTERS

APO congratulates Rockbridge County students

did not sing any songs, nor did they
have any decorations, which led me to
the conclusion that they were in the
Christmas parade for one reason only:
to protect the beauty queens from crazed
fans.

Quite a few of the dozen beauty
queens in the BV Christmas parade
were under age 10 and had such titles
as“Mini-MissVirginia”and“Pre-Teen
Miss Raphine and Efﬁnger.” All of
them rode in convertibles in weather
that made my note-taking pen freeze. I

a major injustice in candy distribu-
tion. The Big Red cat denied Greg and
I candy. Even the middle school cheer-
leaders wouldn’t throw stuff at us.
Who says college kids don’t enjoy
receiving food hurled atthe road some
show horses just walked on.

Greg and I learned an important
Christmas lesson that I’ll pass on to
you: 1) Never take for granted those
things thrown at you 2) Never doubt
the power of tinsel and blinking lights
to make even the most common house-
hold item look really foolish and 3)
Never, ever think you’ve had a Christ-
mas in Virginia until you’ve seen the
EV Christmas parade.

Merry Christmas.

To the editor:

The Brothers of the W&L chapter of Alpha Phi
Omega Service Fraternity would like to extend
hearty congratulations to members of the Rockbridge
County High School APO (A Project Outreach)

' Service Club for their recent accomplishments.

~‘ The RCHS APO Service Club, which is spon-
sored by W&L’s Alpha Phi Omega, ofﬁcially formed
on October 31 when the twenty club members
ratified their Constitution and elected thier
club officers.

Under the leadership of President Amanda
Merrill, First Vice President Mary Madven, Service

Vice President Katie Marlowe, Social Chairman
Tanja Schwieger, Treasurer Brooke Macnamara,
Secretary Thom Mol, and Public Relations Chair-
man Annie Howison, the APO Service Club con-
ducted a canned food drive during the week of
November 14, collecting over 240 cans for the
Rockbridge Area Relief Organization (RARO). They
also provided a free breakfast to the students in the
first period Psychology class for being the class
which donated the most food.

Now the members are in the midst of planning
andorganizingaspecialcollection to supportthe US

ber 12 and lasting through December 21, the club
members plan to collect monetary donations during

lunches and at special locations throughout the high ‘

school. The money collected will then be used to
purchase new toys to be donated to the Toys for Tots
campaign and numerous other projects.

For those reasons, the Brothers of Alpha Phi Omega
applaud the efforts and achievements of the members
of the RCHS APO Service Club, and wish then the best
of luck in all their future endeavors!

Paul D. Saboe,

To the editor:
For a score of years, this Roman
l Catholic has been asserting that Catho-
lic pro-abortoin politicians should be
excommunicated. Conﬁrmation of this
discernment was given by Christ to a
woman named Margarite on
January 6, 1968.
The Son of God declared: “What a

To the editor:

The Executive Committee has re-
cently received numerous queries re-
garding student conduct during exami-

‘ nations. In response to those concerns,
the Executive Committee would
like to review
regarding examinations.

After a student has begun an exam
(e.g., Art 202 on December 10, at 2:00

its policy

responsibility forthose to whom I have
granted all power to do and undo. Woe
to those who are able to act and yet do
nothing. For if my need of love is great,
it does not blind me and the reckoning
demand of them will
be terrible!”

Jesus is speaking about the bishops
of the Catholic Faith which includes

p.m.), that studentshould not discuss
any aspect of the exam until the
completion of the entire exam period
(i.e., December 16, at 5:00 p.m.). Stu-
dents should not even comment on
whether the exam was easy or hard or
on how long it took. To discuss such
matters would give the listening stu-
dents an unfair advantage over stu-
dents who were not privy to this infor-

Marine’s Toys for Tots campaign. Starting Decem-

the bishop of Rome, the pope. This
proclamation is found in the wonderous
bookMessage ofMerciﬁ¢lLove toLittle
Souls, published by Pope Publications,
P.O. Box 6161, San Rafael, California,
94903.

An lmprimatur was issued by Vale-
rian Cardinal Gracias of
Bombay, India.

mation. This rule should be followed
even when the listening student will
not take or has already taken the exam.
Others who have not yet taken the
exammay overhear the conversation.

Additionally, before entering the
exam, students should have a clear
understanding as to what may or may
not bring into the exam. Please contact
your professor if he/she has not clari-

Alpha Phi Omega Service Fraternity Vice President

“Abortion accomplices” should be excommunicated

The prelates’ decision 0 not bind by
exoommunication all accomplices to
abortion, including voters is a mortal
sin of ommision and reﬂects their
desparate need of prayer, especially
the Rosary.

Joseph E. Valley
Washington, Connecticut

EC advises campus on exam week conduct

fied his/her instructions regarding
this matter. ‘

Questions regarding this or any
other matter concerning the Honor
System may be addresses to any mem-
ber of the Executive Committee.
Thank you.

Kevin S. Webb
President, Executive Committee

 

Interviews and Photos
By Andrew Ruppar

   

TALKBACK

I GENERAL
NOTES

Flu Shots

Inﬂuenza vaccine is available at
the Student Health Center for$5 .00.
The vaccine helps prevent ﬂu and
has minimal side effects. Stop by or
call Student Health at 8401 for
further information.

Ariel

W&L’s literary arts magazine is
seeking student submissions of po-
etry, prose, and artwork for publi-
cation. The deadline is December 9,
1994. Please call Susan Deutsch at
464-3029 for more information.

Essay Contest

The theme for this year’s Elie Wiesel
Prize in Ethics Essay contest is
“Creating an Ethical Society:
Personal Responsibility and the
Common Good”. The awards for
this contest total $10,000. The
contest is open to junior and senior
undergraduates, and the deadline is
January 13, 1995. Essays must be
3,000 - 4,000 words in length. Only
three essays will be accepted from
each school. The winners will be
determined by a panel of
distinguished. For entry forms and
guidelines, contact:

The Elie Wiesel Foundation
for Humanity

1177 Avenue of the Americas
36th Floor

New York, NY 10036

(212) 221-1100

Library

Students should remember that
all books checked out of the Leyburn
Library during-the fall term are due
by Friday, December 16. Please re-
turn them to the circulation desk
before leaving for break. If you
would like to use the books longer,

bring them to the circulation desk I

for renewal after December 2. Stu-
dents will be billed for any books
not returned promptly, and there is
a billing fee of $5 for each book not
returned promptly. See Jo Ann Wil-
son, Circulation Supervisor, per-
sonally if you have a problem.

Phi

If you are interested in working
for the Phi, come to our weekly
meetings. They are held on Tues-
days at 7:00 in the Univeristy Cen-
ter room 208.

Class of 1998

There will be a pre-game pizza
party for the Class of 1998 Wednes-
day, December in Doremus Gym.
The basketball game agianst Emory
and Henry will follow at 7:30 p.m.
with entertainment by the members
of the FLC. ‘

Seniors!

Seniors have until Friday, De-
cember 9, to choose and order Sc-
nior pictures. This may be done
next to the GHQ1::This will be the
last chance to charge home your
orders and your unpaid Calyx fee.

University Housing

Before leaving for the weekend
or holidays, please take the
following preventative measures to
insure heating systems will func-
tion properly and that there is no
freeze damage when you return:
Don’t turn the heating system off;
turn the thermostat back to maintain
a 55 degree temperature; be sure all
doors and windows are closed.

Student Composers

The 43rd annual BMI Student
ComposerAwards competition will
award $16,000 to student compos-
ers. There are no limitations as to
instrumentation, style or length of
work. The prizes will range from

$500 to $3,000, and will be awarded
by the ﬁnal judging panel. The con-

test is open to students who live in
the Western Hemisphere who are
under age 26 on December 31, 1994.
Compositions will be judged en-
tirely under pseudonyms. Rules and
entry blanks may be obtained from:
Ralph N. Jackson, Director

BMI Student Composer Awards
320 West 57th Street

New York, NY 10019

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s ﬁnal presentation of the
Fall Term will be Shadowlands (En-
gland, 1993), directed by Richard
Attenborough. Screenings will be
at 8:05 p.m. on Friday, December 2,
and Saturday, December 3, in the
Troubador Cinema, at the corner of
Main and Henry Streets. There is no
charge for admission, though con-
tributions are welcome. Also, sig-
niﬁcant improvements in the sound
in the Troubador.

Corrections

A mistake was made in the November 11 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, in the

story about Washington and Lee’s new trustee on page four. Pamela J. White was
the ﬁrst female alumni trustee.

A mistake was also made inthe November 18 issue of The Ring-tum Phi. The

story about the Phonothon on page one was written by Peter Weissman.

What is your best study technique for ﬁnals?

 

4 Raymond Hall ’96, Rosedale NY -
“Don’t even think about sleep until
it’s all over.”

 

Stephanie Sterling ’97, Glastonbury
, CT - “As much sleep as possible the
night before, or as little sleep as pos-
sible... if possible.”

 

Aaron Spanik ’98, Halifax, Nova
Scotia - ‘‘I like to try and relax --
picture funny things in my head like a
rhinoceros walking into a teacup or a
tree growing out of the side of my
head. I just ﬁnd it helps me to... what
was the question again?”

Chris Blythe ‘96, Bexley, OH - ‘‘I
don’t study.”

Amy Fernicola ’97, Pequannock, NJ
- “Wait until the last minute and cram;
take naps during the day.”

   

Brian White ’98, Wilmington, DE - 

“I get the work done now so Ican relax
before the finals.”

 

 

W&LIF E

The Ring-tum Phi, December 2,1994

The Hot Zone combines drama and science

Richard Preston creates a story about a virus frighteningly echoing AIDS

By MICHAEL Hr~:wLr:'r'r
Phi Staff Writer

Everyone knows about the HIV vi-
rus. Oommercials and advertisements
abound in popular culture, stressing
the importance of safe sex.

Use a latex condom or practice
abstinence, they say.

Recently, Pedro Zamorra, who be-
came famous on MTV’s Real World,
died.

AIDS has ravaged Africa and caused
devastation in the United ates. It takes
approximately ten years or the victim
to develop full-blown AIDS.

But what if there was a virus that
could kill you in a matter of three to
eighteen years.

What if a virus caused symptoms so
frightening that you would rather blow
your brains out than suffer.

What if this virus could wipe out the
entire human population—a biologi-
cal nuclear bomb.

And what if this virus appeared in
your own neighborhood.

Well, according to Richard Preston,
author of The Hot Zone, this virus
exists along with others that could pos-

sibly mark the end of the human race.

The ﬁrst chapter presents a harrow-
ing scenario. A Frenchman named
Charles Monet travels to Mount Elgon
in Africa.

A couple of days later, he begins to
get severe headaches. It could be the
flu or malaria or any other obnoxious
disease you get in the jungle. But it’s
not.

And he gets worse and worse as he
attempts to make it to the Nairobi Hos-
pital.
He has a “hot” virus named Marburg.
It has killed countless numbers of
people. It literally eats the host inside
out until the victim is nothing more
than a mess of blood and virus.

Worse still is the Ebola virus, espe-
cially Ebola Zaire. “Ebola Zaire at-
tacks every organ and tissue in the
human body except skeletal muscle
and bone.

It is a perfect parasite because it
transforms virtually every part of the
body into a digested slime of virus
particles.”

It destroys the brain, causing
depersonalization.

You cease being who you are. Your
emotions, personality, intelligence—
all of these things disintegrate.

This sucker kills nine out of ten

The BEST in
W&L Sportswear.

featuring

15 w. Washingitort st.‘

464-3000

   f    of 5  
  
  

   
      

I iccetniwer    pm.

  

Mail I Order
1-800-474-0056

   

 5:52.;
'tt'iegae. .I:it;§.}i3;(E;t_3}_ ‘9§
.5-‘s..sl2iic §§ae.:i?Et3za.:i 
F:‘a.:tl< Cilelt 
]£3S£‘}if‘t 5itit..ifi3.li” ‘9?
Bait Tipton 

victims. In other words, if you get it,
you can count on dying and dying
violently.

It only takes one person to allow
the virus to spread. Because of extreme
ampliﬁcation, tons of virus could ﬁt
onto the period at the end of this sen-
tence.

It can go anywhere in the world,
including the United States.

In 1989, monkeys that came from
the Philippines start dying in huge num-
bers in Reston, Virginia, which is out-
side of Washington, D.C.

It starts in Room F, but it starts
killing monkeys in other rooms in this
monkey house.

How? Could it travel through the
air? And what would happen if this
virus gets into the human population?
Only one monkey worker would have
to contract the disease to completely
wipe out every living person in Reston.

Preston contends that Ebola and
AIDS are part of a pattern. As human
beings continue to clear away the rain
forests, dormant viruses are being
awakened.

“In a sense, the earth is mounting
an immune response against the hu-
man species. It is beginning to react to
the human parasite, the ﬂooding infec-
tion of people, the dead spots of con-

crete all over the planet, the cancerous
rot-outs in Europe, Japan, and the
United States, thick with replicating
primates , the colonies enlarging and
spreading and threatening to shock the
biosphere with mass extinctions.”

This seems to be a specious argu-
ment, and I had a somewhat hard time
swallowing it.

Is he promoting a political agenda?
I doubt it, but it does make you wonder.

Nevertheless,Preston writesascary
book. What this disease does to human
beings frightens me.

This virus exists and could come
back. I omitted some of the more sick-
ening aspects of the symptoms.

You should not read this book while
eating a Dominos’ pizza.

Preston writes in a clear language
so the average reader can understand
the how these viruses work. He pre-
sents a compelling mix of drama and
scientific fact.

From the first chapter, he draws the
reader into the story and characters and
does not let go.

Preston gives new life to the notion
that fact is often stranger than fiction.
This book will stay with you a long
time.

And you just might have a little
trouble sleeping, but it will be worth it.

 

       
   

_.___.__..___._._.__._____._____,_____________’_

egg‘

   cf”: Knitter ii In his

  
   

 
 
 
 

4ilE<li=ﬁ4iTZ41-

 

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

-._-

‘s’

I. -12121121.

STOP Al(0|l0l. P0|$0ll|llG I

Synqptolrn of alcohol poisoning I
1. Person is unconscious or semi-
conscious and cannot be woken.
2. Cold, clammy, pale or bluish skin.
3. Check to see if breathing is slow, less
than eight times per minute, or
irregular, with ten seconds or more
between breaths.
4. Vomiting while “sleeping“ or passed
out. and not waking up after vomiting.

I
I
l
l
I
I
l

Itaporsonhaaanyoftlrasasyrmtoniaho :

or she is sulforing from acute alcohol

intoxication. I

1. Get help. Call someone, a staff I
member. an ambulance, public safety, I
someone who can help.

2. Do not leave the the person alone, I
turn him or her on their side to keep I
them from choking in case of vomiting. I

3. Always be "better safe than sorry" if
you are not sure what to do. How can I
your friend be angry about you caring ii
for him or her? |

.%.m// mm
5ﬂ.m. - 1 a.m..°
20¢ Ways, 50 ﬁmymi  
 

099090990’

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

 
  
 

(703) 463-598

 

% .

DISGDUNYS

0 cm FOR MORE
IIIFORMAIIOII

Call 5'“

TR

TP—IE

 

A ‘"1"’;-:-::x'«r xx ;.--‘= Y x N (i ;— xx: 1...: rs s:.~';"‘1:'“(:.:)’R:és.r'

RICHARD PRESTON

ZQNE

GIFT BASKETS

The PerfectAnswer ”

   
 

Virginia Born & Bred

16 W. Washington 463-1832

 

463-9730

17 S. Main St.
Hours: Mon-Sat 10-5:30

     
   
 
       
        
     
   
       

“AN AFFAIR TO RE|‘1El‘1BER”

Spring and Summer 1995
Bridal Fair and Exhibition

Saturday, January 28, 1995

12:00 noon until 5:00 pm
Natural Bridge Hotel

Route 11, Natural Bridge, Virginia

Bridal and Formal wear Fashion Show
Cake Sampling
Give-a-wags
AND MUCH MORE
Free Admission

    

»

1 HGITI G

COIIIGIAII
P .COI'|‘l31'S
8 ICTIVIIIS

". lﬁ I“ it

-

 

  

  

I

I The Ring-tum Phi, December 2, 1994

f Harrisfeete

~ J -. 5»,
.~ ' -‘ - zr.
. in
. . . ,-. .;n.  
; V
‘I ... 55» 
-  :..  u
n ' ,~_ 
_u “  g .,__.H '1 H
I " ."-  I ...--., .
I “I ..
’ I - " ' - .v.
‘ —\\ 4. ‘ 's~., ‘ V
1, ‘I I :':‘\‘'-'‘~-- »<._.
__ . '='._'

\ “ . .'
\ .. <
I ‘ .'I I. .
4. _ . ‘  .
s ‘- '. 
\ , I __‘  .-1.: , <
n\ ‘  - - . .‘
\   - ‘I  ‘. .
.‘. .,_._ " ;_ -' A ' ._\k,_
\ .-'- ’ - ‘~ ‘.
\ 3 »-_.. §.., _ ‘-
.  q Y . g ..
\ A ~._,. . I 3 .
\_ :i~._.. t5« 1-3‘
“ I ' "I.-s. "‘..
». \ . . . » -v -
-'~~-... '._ ; .,,_ »_ .
\ I «V _ ._ V ¢..~_._ “:3
. I-.’ --s. . 
 »... k 4,
-  -~-I x-

‘ ﬂ _  ,_

\ \’_ ‘ «.

A

|

.

A'\ ‘ ’: ~
,' ..u'.',I ‘
\  .-.

, ‘ ‘  . ~'‘‘

I ~ j.~.-

‘ . I . H

4-
‘ I
L ‘F
I 4
\' T ‘J T I 
‘ o
3

SELECTED VARIETIES

 

I

Chiquita

  
    
 

WITH CHEESE OR

ﬁﬁ

 
 

  

SEAFOODLB%‘VE‘&$9

"IA .....I.29

BREAD ........ ..
SELECTED VARIETIES

SNAPPIE
BEVERAGES

SALAD-.. .... ..

 
 
   
     

 
 

I 6
OZ.

6 PK. I 2 OZ. CANS

P.C. SOFT

  
  
  
  

I . SELECTED VARIETIES

KEEBLER
6,  .....eo .0

 79

.~ ‘W:  1",...

  

      

HARRIS TEETER

ICE CREAM

  

                   

        
    
 
    

         

 

      
   
    

 
  
  

 

      

III. I III "II

III #2» '_‘ ....   I I I
||;I.»:'-_‘_.  “ , f"?  :.g..-

     »  IIIIIIIII
IIII|IIIIIiII'« "  ‘ "IImiIIIII!IIiIIIIi
-- er...:2!IIIIIIIIII:III!| « .:II~;I||II|I|I;II:I

    

  

          
 
 

    

GREAT VALUES

     

  
 

   
 

* CAFFEINE FREE COKE
WHITE COTTONEL CAFFEINE FREE DIET COKE,

BATH TISSUE COKE OR DIET COKE

88 I LER. 

TROPICANA PREMIUM

L g

I‘

I 54
SQ. FT.

ACT. SIZEAA

\

EVEREADY 9 ORANGE HOO,,IfIE§’IT'}’fELbR 1 
'    C

JU
I602. 20 CT. FAMILY PACK

  .......  
Prices Effective Through Dec. 6, I994

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday, November 30 Through December 6, I994 IN OUR LEXINGTON STORE
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To I.imiI Quantities. None SoI To Dealers. We Giodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

  

I I

DRINKS .............. M99

      
       
    

  

   
 

   

  

    

===:¥...====ﬁ

T!‘

E

1 =:lllll W

I I I I I ll
IIIII

PAGE 9

/ Fall Athletic Honors 1
FOOTBALL . 2nd Team All-ODAC IT‘
1st Team A]1_ODAC Michelle Bauman‘(’97) ‘jig.
‘Ii:I::.".:;:eS;,S§;> WATER Pom ?’E;?
Robert Hull (’96) 2nd Team All-EWPA
2nd Team AIITODAC Pete Sorensen (’97)
’f)sr:‘:vC1I.',f:;;“Sd(,(;95§) EWPA Co-Coach of the Year
Robert Turner (’96) I “.11:
Stuart Hogue (’96) Paige Remillard 
Seth McKinley (’98) cm’
Stephen Cox (’95) VOLLEYBALL
If:
GTE Dist. III Acad. All-Americans 1st Team All-ODAC .33
iii)
Marc Newman ('95) Hilary Martin (’98)
Drew Thomas -eh
Ryan Jander (’96) gge.
Aar§;03;ir1tk'iFnI1s:)nn°r(,97) 2nd Team All-ODAC J"-
Cheryl Taurassi (95) "$2:
MEWS SOCCER CROSS COUNTRY *'*'
2nd Team All-ODAC “*7?
Alan Christensen (95) All-ODAC . U
Jeb Wofford (’96) Amy Mears (’96) -All-American; 
, ODAC Runner of the Year

WoMEN s SOCCER Nat Messmore (’97) 

1st Team All-ODAC ,§;a,;13;;;::,hg,g§>( I
Erika Reineke (’98) Carson Flowfrs C98) -ft»?
Marina Jackson (’95) Men: “*7”

Jenny Gm“ Jason Callen (’98) I  "3

Will Olson (’98) ~ I

J  I

r %

OPEN H0 U SE gt

Saturday December 10 Sunday December 11 

Holiday Sale _ I ‘ . _  Jewelry 

O11 _ 2
.All Blankets Gxfts I»
R ho Christan

'm?ms  sum? . 

W’UNDERWEAR  L 

I%*r:Fc9‘gif§gg ‘ Australian Outback 

Clothes ‘$3? Dark Horse Chocolate 

PRESENT THIS CARD  ma‘; 3;?-’°°,§‘ ‘§°“‘"“"’ 

FOR 10% DISCOUNI‘ ‘H.   m‘;‘,fv‘—"¢. 3; 235;}, 

 . - y _ A -:%::.:2  $03 46-1~ soo 

T‘-—. w I : . ‘ 4

JOIN US FOR HOLIDAY Cl-IIEIEAR  g

" =====E= =====5=== [1 = = = 

ii

, E ..

'W&L CAMPUS BY DAVID
KEELING - S/N LIMITED EDITION

'W&L CAMPUS COPPER-
PLATE, HAND-COLORED

'd.W. BROCKEBROUGH -
I 868 SIGNED CHECK

°R.E. LEE SIGNATURE ON

W&L LETFERHEAD

'W&L COLONNADE, PEN/INK
BY D. BLACKWELL

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450 v
(703)464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
Sunday 11 a.m. - 3 p.m.

     

   

r_—\~t‘

 
      

-1. er‘.- Ihxau-‘~a-‘1.« in. .1 ‘.3

     
 
   
  
     

7 9. 1. :."£.-‘i<: . .. r.‘ﬁf'iE'1vE"§f"?:'3%T‘¥i\"%'}‘T: ‘I- 

 
   
       
    

   
   

   

   

<-'r&‘..". . - € . , .
2., J?;‘V‘W*€‘_§’a_®;$‘lg:U1\‘s‘vo}9’‘6«;Qff)''1ﬂ;‘;!1..s? , ,_ » ﬁe.‘-23 ,’ Lay r~i¢":‘»I,‘,,r,:’\J,-‘gtj, . ,~.c ~2-

 
  

.,,, __
§A4‘,_V.,

2'-s¢*.vz~., « . ,_< . V . L
.»......:..w-.««::.:»;é.!;et-.a%%i:%a

   

   

   

- -.~: 4 V» 9‘: .;:
<.-vonv.-xv.-w*.-u

   

Ia uni}. <\ 9;

   

   

   

   

 

 

     
   
 

 

 

Last Week:

BASKE'n!ALI..- (M)- W&L 85, Amherst 72; Tufts 80,
W&L 74, W&L 80, SUNY-Oswego 56;
Alma 66, W&L 55, W&L 99, H-S 99
(W)- Albright 58, W&L 49; W&L 82
Chestnut Hill 21; Roanoke 75, W&L 41;
W&L 99, Randolph-Macon 99
SWIMMING (W)- W&L 142, Sweetbriar 79

 
   
  

PAGE 10

S

Ellie ﬂting-mm ilﬁhi

PORTS  

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

This Week:

SWIMMING (M&W)- UVa Invitational
Mr:N’s BASKETBALL- (Home) vs. Guilford (Sat. 7:30)
WOMEN'S BASKE'I'BALL- (Home) vs. Emory & Henry

(Sat. 4:30)

Wm:s'ruNG- at Lebanon Valley Tournament

DECEMBER 2, 1994

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

Lately the W&L men’s bas-
ketball team seems to be emulat-
ing the U.S. Postal Service’s Pri-
ority Mail campaign. Just count
it: 2 tournaments, 2 wins, 2 losses,
and a career-high 29 point game
for junior forward Cam Dyer.

The team opened their season
with the Washington and Lee Tip-
Off Tournament, facing Amherst
in the ﬁrst round. Led by Dyer’s
29-point effort and double ﬁg-
ures from 2 other players (Mark
Connelly’s 16 and Chris
Couzen’s 11 points), the Gener-
als were in command for most of
the game.

Amherst managed to cut the
lead to 2 points at 67-65 with
nine minutes remaining, but like
the Postal Service, the Generals
delivered late, as Freshman
Jimmy Schweer hit the glass for
a putback that marked the begin-
ning of the 9-0 run that cemented
the 85-72 Victory.

The Generals then faced the
Tufts Jumbos in the champion-
ship game, but fell just short in
the tough 80-74 defeat. Tufts
grabbed a 14-4 lead early, but
Cam Dyer cut the lead to 2, and

during the year.

Thus far, the senior captain has responded with
a 16 point, seven rebound average in the opening
tournament of the year. To follow that, he added an
11.5 point, 5.5 board average at the Carnegie-

Mellon Tournament.

Connelly’s consistency helped the Generals
notch two wins in four games between the two

tournaments.

Senior Mark Connelly knew going into the sea-
son that he would be called on to lead the Generals

the Generals trailed by only 2
with one minute left in the ﬁrst
half.

Tufts answered with a shot
from downtown in the ﬁnal sec-
onds, and then scored the ﬁrst
eight points of the second half to
cement their lead.

Connelly tallied 16 again and
Dyer added 14, but poor shoot-
ing hampered the Generals’ at-
tack, as they hit only 40 percent
from the ﬁeld and 56 percent
from the foul line.

For his efforts, Connelly was
named to the all-tournament
team, posting averages of 16
points and seven rebounds a
game. 6

The Camegie-Mellon Tour-
nament next greeted the Gener-
als, and once again, it was Dyer
and Connelly that led the way. In
the opener against Oswego, Dyer
recorded 23 points and 11 re-
bounds to help the Generals cruise
to victory, 80-56. Connelly con-
tinued his strong efforts with 10
points and ﬁve rebounds.

In the next match versus Alma,
the shooting slump again hurt the
Generals early, as they shot only
26 percent from the ﬁeld in the
ﬁrst half. ,

Connelly had a team high 13
points and Derek Carter hit the

Athletes of the Week

boards for eight rebounds, but
Alma deﬂected the Generals’
second-half comeback to win
66-55.

Next up for the team was the
beginning of their season in the
ODAC, with a home opener
against Hampden-Sydney
Thursday night.

The Generals once again got
off to a slow start, shooting only
39 percent from the ﬁeld in the
first half.

Poor free throw shooting by
Hampden Sydney and a late
three pointer kept the Generals
close at the break as they trailed
only 43-37.

W&L opened the second half
hot and tied the score at 46
before Hampden Sydney went
on a run to put the Generals
behind by as many as 16 mid-
way through the half.

The Generals fought back,
narrowing the margin to one
twice at 75-74 and 85-84 in the
ﬁnal minutes.

A time-out call with no time-
outs left and the Generals trail-
ing by three sealed W&L’s fate
as they ﬁnally succumbed 88-
84

The next opponent for the
team is the Guilford as the Quak-
ers come to town on Saturday.

 

Sandra Holmes

Junior Sandra Holmes has kept her momentum
from last season going through the start of the 94-
95 season as well.

In the Haverford Tournament, Holmes aver-
aged 16.5 points and a little over seven rebounds a
game, including a 17 point 10 board outburst, on
her way to taking all-tournament honors.

As an encore, Holmes tallied 13 points and 17

Roanoke.

rebounds (eight offensive) against the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference’s top ranked team,

Swim teams open season strong

File Photo

The Generals have gotten off to a fast start on both the men’s and
women’s side. Both squads won their first meet, and the women came
back and won again this week against Swee
coming off strong years last year.

tbriar 142-79. Both teams are

File Photo

This season will be the last for long time Washington and Lee coach Verne
Canﬁeld, as he retires at the end of the year.

The W&L women have opened the year with a 2-3 record after playixi‘g‘e:}1) tough

 
   

' oto

early season schedule that included Roanoke, the top ranked team in the

ODAC.

-.5

¢-<"

Basketball nets early wins in touramets’

H

Women get off to slow start .

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team
dropped their second straight
conference game of the season
Thursday night at Lynchburg.
The Generals were beaten 70-55
by the Hornets, falling to 2-3 on
the year, 1-2 in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference.

Lynchburg opened the game
with 15 unanswered points and
held off the Generals the rest of
the way. W&L had closed to
within 41-38 in the second half,
but could get no closer.

Junior Stacey Williams scored
13 points to lead W&L, and added
nine rebounds. Junior Sandra
Holmes and senior Amy Vogt
registered eleven points each.

The Generals had evened their
record at 2-2 Tuesday night in
Lynchburg with a 60-54 come-
from-behind win against
Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-
lege.

Trailing by as many as eleven
in the second half, the Generals
used a decisive foul shooting
advantage to reclaim the lead in
the final seconds. Freshman
Rachel Read (9 points) hit four
clutch free throws down the
stretch.

For the game, W&L went to
the foul line ten times more than
the Wildcats and converted 24-
of-39. That helped overcome an
8-for-32 second half shooting
performance that dropped the
Generals from a one point half-
time lead to the eleven point defi-
cit.

Holmes was the game’s high-
scorer with 22 points. She also
grabbed 14 rebounds in her 33
minutes of work, eight off the
offensive glass.

Williams had 20 points and
nine rebounds, while Allison Hull
dished out four assists.

The Generals opened their
season during the Thanksgiving
break with third place ﬁnish at
the Haverford Tournament. They
dropped the first game to

Albright, 58-49, despite forcing
31 turnovers by the Lions.
Holmes topped W&L scorers
with 16 points.

In the consolation game,
Chestnut Hill was held to six
second half points as the Gener-
als marched off to an 82-21 win.
Williams netted 22 points and
Holmes registered 17 points, 10
rebounds and seven steals.

The team’s ODAC season
began with a home loss to
Roanoke the Tuesday before
Thanksgiving. Despite Holmes’
13 points and 17 rebounds, the
defending conference champs
posted an easy 75-41 victory over
the Generals at the Warner Cen-
ter.

Though the Maroons went on
to a 34-point win, Roanoke coach
Susan Dunagan felt it necessary
to continue to apply full-court
pressure late in the game, believ-
ing the win was not yet secured.

The Generals will be home
again Saturday at 4:30 for an-
other ODAC contest as they host
Emory & Henry.

Thanks to Keith Grant for
great job. Good Luck
next term, and if you ever
feel like writing some-
thing, and you're In

town...

9:

.—-

 

