      

-. .r"r.x:i;- ~-

xvaeifrirmécre .\ i..§'§ r,aewvas5it~.:*Y

 i_!‘r\'i’l‘»}QF{)rJiY vi‘ 
\/.»"l
« ./ .. M.
’” 3 .J/as  

Weekend Weather

FITNESS OPTIONS
FOR JACTIVE
srudENTs

Men & women swim
into full gear

 

 

I"

he ‘Etta -tum {ﬂirt

VOLUME 94, No,1~2’

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

But, is it fattening?

Photo by Betsy Green, The R‘ g-tum Phi

Parliament.

Sophomore Sasha Hartman wrestles her opponent in the muck that was the chocolate pudding wrestling contest
Wednesday night. Sponsored by the SAB, this fmger-lickin’ good time drew a large crowd. Contestants wrestled
for free FD tickets. Second prize was free tickets to the Thursday Night hand during FD week, George Clinton and

1995 FD won’t have fireworks

Committee plans special surprise instead to coordinate with later ball

By PETER WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

This year’s Fancy Dress Ball will please night
owls, disappoint fireworks fans, and surprise
everyone.

The ball will be held 30 minutes later than usual,
from 9:30-1:30 am, instead of from 9 -1 am. It will
conclude with a surprise event instead of the tradi-
tional ﬁreworks display.

Students had mixed reactions to the changes.

“I like the hour changes because I always felt that
12 o’clock made fora short night,” junior Robin King
said. “I’ll miss the ﬁreworks. I’m a little skeptical
about what they’re going to come up with [instead].”

“No one gets to the ball until 10:30 anyway,” said
Senior Frost Bush.

“You’re going to see more people in advanced
stages of drunkenness because of the late hours,”
sophomore Christina Petrides said.

FD Steering Committee chairman Joe Framptom
said that the 40 members of FD subcommittees
decided on the changes for several reasons. For one,
students tend to arrive at the ball late.

“It’s a shame for [FD] to do all that work, and
people only see it for two hours,” Framptom said.

“We’ve decided to start it up at 9:30pm to give
everyone achance to enjoy a nice dinner, and [we’ve]
extended the hours later for those who don’t arrive
until later,” said FD Auditor Kathy Boozer.

The City of Lexington would not allow ﬁreworks
at 1:30 am, the ball’s new ending time, Boozer said.
She said that fireworks are expensive at more
than $3300.

Framptom said that few students see the ﬁreworks
and that those who do are scattered around campus.

“We’re going to try to do something this year that
kind of brings everybody together a little more,”
Framptom said. “The band is going to end, and we’re
going to do the deed. [lt’s] going to be a bigger deal
than the ﬁreworks because it’s going to be right in
[the gym].”

The 88th Annual Fancy Dress Ball will be held
March 3. The Bo Thorpe Orchestra will perform in
the Warner Center, and another band will play in
Doremus Gym. The second group, whose contract is
in the mail, will be “a very danceable band that plays
music the students will like,” Framptom said.

“It’s not a country band,” Boozer said. “People
will be excited about that.”

The bands and decorations will make for a suc-
cessful event, Framptom said.

“The committee has worked hard for what I think
is going to be a spectacular ball,” he said.

As auditor, Boozer has her own expectations.
Last year’s ball ﬁnished $2000 in the red because bad

weather weakened ticket sales, she said.

“We plan on not having a [ﬁnancial] loss, and we
look forward to strong support from the student body
through ticket purchases,” Boozer said.

Tentative prices for couples are $45 for a ticket
and $75 for a memorabilia package of two t-shirts,
posters, shot glasses, a new item, and 4 cups, she said.

University Historian Taylor Sanders said that
there have been ﬁreworks at virtually every FD since
he came to W&L in 1969. They were not part of the
ball in 1992 because of budgetary constraints.

Although last year’s ﬁreworks may have ended a
tradition, many students, including Yabiz Sedghi
and Frost Bush, did not see them.

“They were having the ﬁreworks while the band
was still playing, which was not a bright idea,”

I

Sedghi said.

“If the event they have planned measures up,
maybe it will be an even better treat,” Bush said.

Sophomore Cathy Merritt said that changing FD
will not alter its effect on students.

“Whatever they do, people are still going to have
fun at Fancy Dress,” Merritt said.

Another person happy with the change: Lexing-
ton City Manager Jon Ellestad, who approved last
year’s ﬁreworks request. He said they were set off
after 1 am, later than the request had indicated.

“I think it’s too much of an imposition on every-
one who’s sleeping.”

How does he feel about a surprise event instead?

“Oh boy. That word ‘surprise’ worries me. You
guys have inventive minds.”

File Photo

Expect a surprise at Fancy Dress instead of the traditional fireworks.

LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA

JANUARY 20, 1995

B&G to take
over fraternity
house cleaning

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee Buildings and _
Grounds will not renew its contract”

Wm‘ St°“°W3“Maﬂagementsewicesfi‘ regularly ﬁnes fraternities for dam-

the fraternity house cleaning service.
The decision was made earlier this

year primarily for ﬁnancial reasons,

according to Calvin Elswick, Director

' of Buildings and Grounds. Elswick’s

staff decided the business arrangement
was no longer cost effective for the
University.

University Treasurer Lawrence
Broomall would not disclose the amount
of money that will be saved. However,
he did say that the unused funds would
help pay for Fraternity Renaissance.
Currently, the cost of Fraternity Re-
naissance is distributed among each
male belonging to a Greek organiza-
tion in the form of Greek dues. Despite
the release of the cleaning service, Greek
dues will not be reduced.

Another motivation was the dissat-
isfaction with the work being done in
some fraternity houses, although
Elswick pointed out that the work in
others was adequate. Also, hiring out
independent companies to clean the
fraternity houses did_n’t mesh with
Elswick’s personal philosophy. . He
believes that Buildings and Grounds
should be responsible for cleaning the
houses themselves.

The announcement has caused an
uproar in certain segments of the W&L
community, especially from some fra-
ternity members.

Fraternity house residents are upset
to see some Stonewall employees leave.

Sigma Phi Epsilon Treasurer Matt
Mazzucchi said, “Our cleaning lady
does a good job and works hard. The
brothers in the house have developed a
good rapport with her.”

Currently, Stonewall cleaning per-
sonnel spend four hours in each house.
Fraternity members are concemedabout
the problems B&G might have due to
the lack of manpower.

Mazzucchi said, “We are worried
that B&G might not spend enough time
cleaning. Also we’ve heard that B&G
workers will spend only two hours per
day cleaning the house.”

Elswick has said he is “studying”
hiring more B&G personnel.

Not all members of fraternities are
apprehensive about the upcoming
switch.

Lambda Chi Alpha President Bob
Ferris said, “As long as the house gets
cleaned, we have no problems with
who does it.”

Another cause of concern is wage
compensation for the B&G employees.
Elswick said that there will be no pay
increase for the added responsibilities.

B&G workers are well compensated

j bers was the issue of ﬁnes.

for the work they do, according to
Elswick. He added their wages were
similar to the national average for all
cleaning personnel.

Another concern for fraternity mem-
B&G

ages and failure to clean after parties.
Occasionally, fraternity residents ne-
glect to sufﬁciently clean their party
rooms. Often, the cleaning ladies will
clean before B&G crews arrive and
assess ﬁnes. Some fraternity members
believe ﬁneswillskyrocketwhen B&G
takes over the cleaning. _

Mazzucchi said, “We avoid ﬁnes
by staying in touch with our cleaning
lady and working closely with her.
With B&G, you’ll see a lot more ﬁnes.”

Jeffrey Laborde, the President of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, agreed.

“We’ve had a problem with B&G
ﬁning us in the past,” Laborde said. He
was concerned with the possibility that
excessive ﬁning would once again
present a problem.

Elswick readily agrees that prob-
lems will be encountered in working
out the new arrangement.

“Transporting the crews to the Era-
ternity houses presents a problem,”
said Elswick.

Additionally,formulatingschedules
and determining the cleaning needs of
each fraternity house also present chal-
lenges for B&G.

Despite these obstacles, Elswick is
confident that B&G will perform well.

“You will see a difference in our
service level. We want to maintain the
quality level of service that students
are used to,” said Elswick.

Director of Stonewall Management
Services Billy Hall was disappointed
with the decision, but was not angry.

“The decision was purely economic.
W&L said it had nothing to do with our
performance or our price,” said Hall.

Hall also said the decision will not
affect community relations with W&L.
In fact, he hopes to have an opportu-
nity to work with the University again.

Hall also pointed out the six ladies
who currently clean the houses will not
lose their jobs when the contract with
W&L expires. He intends to offer
them positions elsewhere.

Fraternity house mothers generally
agree they will regret to see their clean-
ing ladies leave, but they have no prob-
lems with B&G.

Kappa Sigma house mother Brame
Spessard said, “We feel sorry for the
ladies who will lose their jobs.”

Despite concerns that B&G will not
perfonn up to par, Elswick is conﬁdent
that they will come through.

“We are excited about taking on the
new responsibilities and will support
the fraternities at quality level,”
Elswick.

 

  

1|
The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1995 1 E

xgrcisz options abound at W&L

By ANNE ALVORD
Phi Staff Writer

Now that several weeks have passed
since New Year’s, many of those who
resolved toget ﬁt in 1995 ﬁnd them-
selves losing enthusiasm for their exer-

 
   

Photo by Besty Gn

Sophomore Lin Fitzenhagen
gets his muscles in shape in
the Doremus gym weight
room.

Solid, free-spirited Legends of the Fall

cise regimen.

According to Patty Colliton, one of
W&L’s assistant athletic trainers, there
are many beneﬁts to be gained from a
regular fitness program. The ﬁrst
major beneﬁt is improved cardiovas-
cular health. Improvements in cardio-
vascular health can be especially sig-
niﬁcant for men. A regular ﬁtness pro-
gram can also help maintain a healthy
body weight, and increase strength, as
well as be a tremendous stress man-
agement technique. Regular ﬁtness
can also help women prevent
osteoporosis.

The activities W&L students par-
ticipate in vary greatly, from those
who have daily aerobic work-outs, to
those who take P.E., to those who
participate in intercollegiate and club
athletics. Weights, intramural aerobics,
and pick-up basketball seem to be
among the most popular activities, ac-
cording to Colliton.

Senior Carrie Brown, who works
out for an hour a day, six days a week,
says “I’d like to think I work out the
same as [other students], but I always
see the same people...” Many other
students, however, seem to think that
they lag behind their peers in the ﬁt-
ness game. Because many students
don ’t like others to know they exercise,
it is difﬁcult for one to compare his or
her own fitness program to that

of others.

The reasons students exercise are as
varied as the exercises they enjoy. For
some, it is appearance. Colliton says,
“At this point, [students exercise] to
look good. There are a lot of tight-
dress forrnals out there.” Another sig-
niﬁcant motivation for exercise is the
feeling of achievement it can produce.
This is especially true of exercises such
as weight-training, where a person can
actually track his or her progress. In
addition, many students find that exer-
cising is a great method of relaxation.
To some, exercise is just something
they enjoy.

There are many facilities available
to W&L students interested in working
out, both on and off campus. Fitness
options offered on campus include the
Gaines Hall exercise room, which has

‘ four exercise bikes, three stair climb-

ers, free weights, a rowing machine,
Nautilus equipment, and a cross-coun-
try ski machine. Doremus Gymna-
sium also offers a plethora of ﬁtness
options. The weight room offers free
weights, weight machines, and three
exercise bikes. There are also twelve
racquetball/squash courts, two gymna-
siums, and two pools.

There is some criticism of the re-
sources available on campus. Senior
Lisa Florentine, who has her own step-
per at home, says that there are not

enough exercise facilities provided by
the school. Brown agrees, saying,
“There aren’t enough facilities for the
number of people who [work out]. For
the cost of the school, we should have
a larger facility.” Brown admits, how-
ever, that “it’s improved since we got
the stair climbers.” Many students
agree with Colliton who says,“ltwould
always be nice to have more room,
[but] for the size of the school, and
being Division III, it’s pretty good.”
She admits, however, that the weight
room does get crowded. While cer-
tainly more facilities could be useful,
most students agree there’s not a big
problem most times of the day. The
exercise facilities seem to be most
crowded around 10:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m.

For those who ﬁnd the on-campus
facilities inadequate to their needs,
Lexington has two health clubs. The
Lexington Fitness Center has been serv-
ing the Lexington community for the
past ﬁve years. About twenty percent
of the members of Lexington Fitness
are W&L students. Ray Cohen, owner
of the center, says that the benefits of
their Lexington Fitness come from the
philosophy of their family—owned and
operated club, which is to serve and be
a part of the Lexington community.
Many of their programs are geared for’
beginners, and the staff discourages

competitive mentalities. “We see our
job as helping [people] improve their
lives...if you choose to become a mem-
ber, we pride ourselves on excellent
service,” says Cohen. Rates for mem-
bership at the Lexington Fitness Cen-
ter range from $30 to $40 per month,
depending on the length of member-
ship, but many special discounts are
available. Anyone interested in these
discounts may call for information.
Omega Fitness Center has joined
Lexington’s ﬁtness scene since the new
year. According to manager and trainer
Amy Puyear, Omega’s staff is “conﬁ-
dent that we have great equipment and
a great facility.” According to Puyear,
Omega has already received a great
deal of student interest. One student
said she wanted to join because she
couldn’t work out when she wanted on
campus. The enrollment fee is waived
for all W&L students, and a free screen-
ing by the staff doctor is offered with
every enrollment. Memberships start
at approximately $35 per month.
Winter can put a damper on an out-
door ﬁtness program. However, win-
ter can also be a great time to try a new
activity. Some options are running on
the track in the gym, inter murals, and
sports equipment which can be checked
out from the gym. There are also some
great exercises that are available only
in the winter, including cross—country

PAGE§

skiing Anyone interested in cross-coun-
try skiing should contact the Outing
Club for information. W&L also of-
fers several winter club sports. These
are men’s’ and women’s’ fencing,
men’s’ ice hockey, men’s’ racquetball,
men’s’ and women’s’ downhill skiing,
men’s’ squash, and men’s’ volleyball.
Club sports director Joe Lyles is also
looking for women interested in form-
ing women’s racquetball and squash
teams. Any students interested in any
of the club sports should contact Lyles
for information.

Colliton offers special advice for
specific ﬁtness goals. For those inter-
ested in weight loss, she says that low
to moderate exercise, coupled with a
balanced diet, is the best solution. For
those who want to maintain theirweight
and increase muscle tone, Colliton rec-
om mends aerobic exercise and strength
training to add tone and firmness. To
liven up a dull work out, cross-training
is the best remedy. “Adding another
exercise to your program or bringing a
friend along can help keep you from
losing interest,” Colliton advises. For
those who would like to start working
out, or who would like to get back to
working out, Colliton recommends
starting slowly.. Colliton urges those
who have never worked out before to
see a physician for a check-up
before starting.

meanders through

By KIRK SUSONG
Phi Movie Reviewer

 

Legends of the Fall — itirﬁ

Legends of the Fall is a most unusual type
of movie, a sort of tale of masculine emotion, in
the tradition of Lawrence of/irabia.

It fearlessly treads on very dangerous ground,
trying to probe the male psyche without scaring
men away by being “touchy-feely.”

The story opens on a Montana farm at the
turn of the century. Anthony Hopkins portrays
Col. William Ludlow, who has raised his three
sons far from the cares of the world, and also far
from his separated wife.

The eldest son is the responsible one, Alfred
(Aidan Quinn), followed by the long-haired
rebel, Tristan (Brad Pitt), and the young vision-
ary, Samuel (Henry Thomas, of E.T. fame).

Samuel returns from Harvard with a beauti-
ful young ﬁancee, Susanna Fincannon (new-
comer Julia Ormond); she immediately be-
comes an object of desire for Samuel’s brothers
as well.

But Samuel has brought back from the East
more than a ﬁancée; he also has all the news of
the war in Europe and a youth’s desire to
crusade for a good cause.

So, against his father’s wishes, he goes over-
seas to ﬁght the Germans, pulling along his two
brothers with him.

He is shot to death right before Tristan’s
eyes.

After being discharged, Alfred asks Susanna
to marry him, and she very reluctantly agrees;
however, when Tristan returns home, he se-
duces her, then proceeds to leave Montana,
roaming the world, in search of adventure and
‘himself.’

After many years, he writes that their love is
dead and she should stop waiting for his return;
so, she returns to almost-cuckolded Alfred, and
they marry.

Alfred continues to rise in the business
community, and eventually becomes a Con-
gressman.

When Tristan ﬁnally returns home, he mar-
ries the young daughter of the farrnhand, settles
down and raises a family, maintaining the farm
by running liquor across the border of Canada.

This runs him afoul of the local mob, who
proceed to kill his new bride (albeit acciden-
tally).

There follows a few rounds of vindictive
killings on both sides, and a great deal of soul-
searching by everyone. In the midst of it all,
Susanna commits suicide.

Finally, the enfeebled Col. William Ludlow
and the distant Alfred come together to save

the male psgche

Tristan from the mob, thereby reuniting the rent
family.

What really stands out in this ﬁlm is the T
excellent character development by all the lead-

ing actors.

Brad Pitt does a marvelous job of keeping
Tristan very human, not allowing him to be-
come a stereotypical rebel relishing in his ma-
chismo. _  j p _ ,

With similar depth Julia Onnond and Aidan
Quinn present all the subtlety that “boring”
people are full of.

Strangely enough, considering his stature as
an actor, Anthony Hopkins has the most difﬁ-
cult time.

In part this is because his character suffers
a stroke which paralyzes part of his face and
body, but it is so fake that he looks laughable
instead of fatherly for a large part of the movie.

The directing from Edward Zwick is decent,
despite occasional, severe lapses into melo-
drama. He wisely utilizes the amazing Montana
landscape whenever possible.

Certainly the ﬁlm’s greatest weakness must
be the plot, which is tedious, winding, and
slightly aimless; then again - not to get too
philosophical or anything — that is what life is
really like, after all. Because of this we focus
more on the characters and their interactions
than we do the events in their lives.

The total effect of the ﬁlm is to leave us
slightly saddened,'but asking all sorts of ques-
tions about our nature. Considering that W&L
is a bastion of the Establishment will make the
tension between the surviving sons very inter-
esting and relevant.

On the one hand is Alfred, who is a paragon
of duty and conformity but also of pent-up
resentment. Opposing him is the wild, uncon-
trollable, irresistible Tristan, a sort of Marlon
Brando meets the Marlboro Man meets Ernest
Hemingway.

The conﬂict between the two is handled well
in its own right, but made even more interesting
by the memory of young Samuel and the future
of young Samuel’s wife-to-be Susanna.

The movie seems to come down on the side
of Tristan’s virility, independence, and other
Nietzscheanqualities. Though Alfred has the
money and the power of government, it is
Tristan who has the affections of the ﬁlm’s
women and takes life for all he can get. After
much wandering, Tristan is still able to re-
discover his home, stability and family.

At any rate, it will be a troubling movie for
C-School majors and others ready to jump on
the fast-track to peaceful, afﬂuent anonymity,
and an uplifting movie for the free spirits and
beatniks who populate Payne and Newcomb.

Legends of the Fall has excellent acting in
all the main roles and is ﬁlmed warmly and
solidly, reminiscent of Chariots of Fire.

Despite the melodrama, it is a grand, sweep-
ing, meandering ﬁlm which will not satisfy a
thirst for action or adventure, but might make
you wonder why you’ve got that thirst. (Still,
what is the meaning of the title?)

than Cats!”

ahead and watch it.

Rating Scale

1frs’.‘.rs’.‘n’.‘r — Go buy this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an instant classic. “You’ll
laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something about yourself.”

aaa - Go see this ﬁlm now, while it’s still on the big screen. It’s worth a few Oscar
nominations and the seven bucks you ’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better

as - Okay, so there have been better ﬁlms. Nevertheless, it is a good example of its
genre, and you should probably see it on videotape. Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

{Er - It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off tomor'row’s reading. Although your
time would probably be better served on your education, its free and you’re bored, so go

0 - Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed harder, trust me, this one
sucks. Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste it on this. (T here’s always MTV.)

Photo provided by Holly Layman

Sophomore Holly Layman does her routine on the balance beam during a high school competition. The
balance beam and the uneven bars are Layman's favorite events.

Ggmnasl Lagman balances past and future dreams

By RACHELLE Rows
Phi Staff Writer

Did you know that a major competitor and
star of the United States Gymnastics Federa-
tion goes to our school? With her modesty, you
probably didn't.

' Sophomore Holly Layman, a mix of ambi-
tion and friendliness, started gymnastics at age
SIX.

Layman’s best friend, a gymnast since age
three, sparked her interest. After noticing the
strength and flexibility layman had attained at
such an early age, her sister suggested it might
be a good sport for her.

At age eight, layman was competing in
and winning competitions at the thirteen and
older age level.

At age nine, Layman and her parents faced
a difﬁcult decision. She was asked to move

Olympic gymnast Bart Connor.

    

Photo provided by Holly Layman
Nine-year-old Holly Layman gets a hug from

away from her home to live with coaches and
other elite gymnasts to train for the Olympics.
At such an early age, Layman was too young to
understand the implications of this decision.

Her father knew about the inescapable un-
happiness so many young athletes are faced
with after having their childhood taken away
from them at such an early age. Many never
recover to lead a normal life.

Layman ’s fatherthought it best for his daugh-
ter to live as normal a childhood as possible.
Although she feels this was the right decision,
she still will always wonder what life might
have been like had she chosen that path.

Layman won an abundance of awards com-
peting. She won her individual events, she won
the all-arounds, and she not only competed in
the compulsory division but also the optional.
Most gymnasts usually compete in one or the
other because two 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. days in a
row is too tiring. She did both and still won.

In high school Layman continued to com-
pete with her USGA team for at least ﬁve hours
a day, practiced and competed for her high
school team, played for the ten-
nis team and excelled in ad-
vanced placement classes at her
public high school.

Layman got home at 10 p.m.
and did her homework before her
early morning practices. Sleep
was not a priority or much less an
option. Layman says this sleep
deprivation preparedher for col-
lege. Talking with Holly Lay-
man would give the President an
inferiority complex.

Amazingly, Layman gave up
gymnastics last year when she
came to W&L. She gave it up to
become a doctor, another dream
of hers.

Most importantly, Layman is
happy. That’s not to say she
doesn’t miss gymnastics. Last
year was the ﬁrst time in her life,
since age ﬁve, that she didn’t
spend at least ﬁve hours a day
with gymnastics.

If you’re interested, you might
try and sneak a peek in Howe
Hall one night when Layman re-
' lieves stress through her acro-

 

Photo rovided by-ll-Iolly Layman
Layman illustrates her strength
and ﬂexibilty during an uneven
barsroutine.

batic study breaks. I hear Professor Uffelman 

does front handsprings as well.

Layman admits it was tough at times last 2
year. However, thewords“fear,”“I’m scared” 1
and ‘‘I can’t’’ are not allowed in a gymnast’s 1
vocabulary. It is a very common trait among 1
gymnasts to be perfectionists,'and Layman is. 
Every minute of her life is mapped ‘out with a 3
purpose and, at the same time, she manages to g

be down-to-earth.

 

 

PAGE 4  The Ring-tum Phi, Janaury 20, 1995 ‘I9

MIXED MEDIA I

 

by Jack Ohman
1:5 Cc)ICIq +
LI Ml I5") MA41‘
HE!/L, C-snoeum 6 ’
INTERVIEW “E ’°" “ “""""‘"~ Y.i‘22..‘:‘:_ *’°° WW‘ 33§ZE€§§f2§E.E;¥% I

  
  

  
    
   

IT ears use
on THE SACK
Adv annex

rm ‘"~ FQREMAN on I-II
W A -2   
3-BEAR-OLD 4 IE

 
 

  
  

 

 ’.,l,~/..,;«.a§i?rr..waa...,4..=-e2i'¢..='tw»-

'" "5 -- BIRTHDAY, 
on "me. mom-.   X f
VAMPIRE .. _     I V
Srnaame
  Ase 
'“ (‘I . I3’ , II‘ lg“ x ‘ r‘ I 5"‘=;~ 3'
w“A_‘_ Do 300 u‘€_m  WH3 13  90 gm) UKE WHAT DO Sou D0 THERE?     

:45

       
    
  
 

ARE-I-“Egg gqgg vgyapmg. WHAT po 1-H33 Do? Do VAMPIQES EAT WHERE DO 300 SLEEP ?

coma‘ CHOCULA ILEEEAL?

no PROBLEM... Ir‘; " ’
ON“ BtP~<I< Corset... ‘

or-u-39:19 Jurvv La +.».u@ 3Lv>IoIvﬁS rivnvaa amv V-hbl -1"?-I

     

    

 
    
   

VAMPIRES
JUST S I) CK
Save, OAD.

0.15-?94T’b M ' ' , I
AnnIg'hémneese°rvd:i.s°~w”"m 0~<~w- I2-no

 

  
     
 

     

    
 

 

  

 
     

 
   

 

(ouptes web  WANTTO Don-Is RIGHT
UK‘ To see," 11-IIN6? LOSE we (oNreocI2AI'¢ _
Is soup. coI=I=Iu soup. Is IT coMF‘;3 In 5002 was Dom’ sou LIKE JUST ONE MOQE " ARMY. ‘°“  ’
gg°p_°°M'2 coccm? me oAsTI~Ie? I F3‘ MW’, i/ \ U I / - A_____€
M MORE 83;?‘ E13; Bt=.A0.vFAcr—.! SP'KE ’/(I Egzg ' .;
°°‘I>’.§{a°."‘’ °AV- ' AN" _ ,
ROBERT E. LEE... _ i 1 .
:';-‘—_ ’:':——§$__:> : _—f:S'* I
_oL.»w./>~ ‘,§'I?%l;l'2:II°e2‘e°£ . ”'°°"'"°"="‘"— —_ ‘ —:—
I‘
I--——-—-—-— m T =' W&L STUDENTS fl I ﬂ Z
I Self—storage units now available ositions available monthly. BA '  
r BS required. $18,000 - 24,000 ‘ ‘ yr
\ I’ Think Reserve your Se1f_StQrage area r. Accom. provided, other ben- BEARED CROSS VOLUNTEER
for the summer months fits. Send resume, copy of di-
S 25 South Jefferson Street 1°1:“Ja. ‘gm “pf. °f §[*'SSP°gh‘°‘ American
P . . , ‘ O 1 OI'pOI'8 1011, ang llfﬁl Re d SS ‘i
Behind Domino s Pizza .O.Box8YangChunGu,Seou
_ 1 Korea TEL: 011-822-242-5627 . ._
 can Mrs‘ Brown 463 30 3 AX: 011-822-242-4329. ‘m
I E TGIF   I
» 7? Fwaouarie‘ stones "' ’

Travel Jnlimited Mid‘Wi“te’ Clearance 55113 Hardwam;i*aint,.anaReIatea;:1ts:ms
4 Thursday - Saturday .

  

Open Mon;-:*Sat28:39da;m;.-,-:6.p.m. SIm.._ '
17s. Main St. 463-9730 Hours: Mon-Sat10-5:30 E'N°1S°“ Se‘°’1""m"-'°“ _ .. 453,-‘In-86$’

Are you looking for an exciting and rewarding summer job?
I g : The A Bar A Guest Ranch is on 140,000 private acres of . I,
O M GA southern Wyoming, surrounded by national forest and wi1der-    1 a 1 ‘
0 ness area. We have openings in all areas of guest services. If

I    you are available from approximately June 1 to early or late at
Summit Square, Lexington (ACTOSS from DMVD September, we would like to talk with you about the possibility

of working with us this summer. The manager, Bob Howe, will
   be interviewing on campus February 1. To arrange an interview K I
time, sign up at the Careers Office in Blow Hall. Questions? .

Saturday, January 21st C H 303 6701323
9a.m.-5p.m. a( ) ' '
N0 enrollment fee for students!

   
       
    

 
   
  

     
       
   
   
   
     
   
  

’ 2 L Ch I
Now through Saturday Only! I  S C O I‘ I1 9 f Pizzlfsefor $35999 , p
on Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington .
-1,, "T he tradition continues”
' Don’t Wait Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea., Reg‘ Calzone ‘.01.

Another Minute

   
  
  
 
 
  
     
 
 
 

delicious BBQ sandwiches $1.39
7-Up, A&W root beer, RC, cream soda-’
3 cans / $1.00
Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .069/gal.
Unleaded Plus - $1 .129/gal.

Natural Light
$4.29/12 pack - $8.50/case
40 lb. ice - $4.99

CHECK FOR OUR DAILY PRICES

$2.50 "

Saturday, Jan. 21
WREL Live Remote
Door Prizes, Free Sweatshirts,
Free T-Shirts, Free Balloons, ’ _
Free Refreshments ‘ PICK Up A
' Free Prizes while they I st FREE Day Pass ‘
Saturday Only Z
(One only per person) 

For I day only - "
Ialre Advantage -
’ Call Early

  
   
        

_ 24 North Main St.
As Always, We Provide The Best 464-5800
Service For The W&L Community ~
Open 7 Days 463-5452 Miles 8. Sandy Nye, Proprietors FINE ITALIAN CUISINE ’

 

CAMPUS CARD. Box 2206115. HoLI_YIIooI). FL 33022 '

z I want VISAO/MASFIEICARDO Credit

(hrdsapprovcd Immediately. 100% GUARANTEED!

THE PHI:
Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards In the world...Vlsa® and Ma.stcrCard0
crcdlt cards..."In your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BER)REI

VISA0 and MasterCard0 the credit cards you

DOCTOR RECOFIHENDED
AND FDA APPROVED

 

T‘ T a
deserve d ccd I" -— lD—BO0KS—DEPAR’TMENT
""s,';,RES‘jjTUm0N_ENTERmNMEm_ NAME _I:I_I 
EMERGENCY U\sH—-TICKETS-—RESTAURANTs— Men/Women earn up to $48

    

REPAIRS-AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! CITY .______.__._ STATE _. ZIP

PHONE __.__j_ SS.”
SIGNATURE

NOTE: Masterﬁlrd Is a registered trudermrk d Mmtercmi lntematlonnl. Inc.
Vlsa Is a registered tradermni ol VISA l1SLInc. and VISA lnttmational

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

weekly assembling circui
boards/electroniccomponent
at home. Experience unnec
essary, will train. Immediat
openings your local area. Call
1-602-680-7444 Ext. 102C

v

.I_ SERVICES’

 

‘NC. gnﬂgiﬂﬁm No turn downs!
. ‘ﬂcmug No credit checks!
g\sI'::=?¢t:;‘.f._‘ A No security deposit!
00 ‘"5 SEND THE coupon room
YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE IIIAITING!

 

I ue"‘Q_'card

7
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
HOTELS—M0’I‘ELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS— : ADDRESS
I
I
I
I
I
I
L

 

 

i -I.

  

PAGE 5

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂltt

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

ﬂ .
 When alcohol becomes a problem...

, "  The Ring-tum Phi has never been a particularly voluble

{opponent of alcohol. We recognize that, hey, students at
Washington and Lee drink. A lot. We have even been known

1 I to be somewhat proud of the fact.
‘ Most students at W&L can attest to drunken incidents which
: they would rather they (and their friends) forget, and the Phi
staff is certainly not immune to this malady.
Very few colleges, even those who miss the Princeton

V

Review alcohol ratings altogether, can boast that they are free
of alcohol misuse.

But there comes a time when one must seriously re-evaluate
one’s opinion of alcohol use and abuse. During a visit to view
the police arrest docket recently, some members of The Ring-

. #1 tum Phi happened on the name of one of their fellow students.

Unfortunately, we realize that it is not unusual to ﬁnd
students’ names listed next to charges of “Drunk in Public” or
“Minor in Possession” or even “Driving Under the Inﬂuence.”
All of these seem to surface during “big” weekends, late at
night, and we generally ignore these unless they involve close
friends-—and we laugh about it.

But someone caught our attention this week, and we won’t
use the name because we have no desire to drag a W&L
student’s name through the mud. This student was arrested for
* DUI at 7:45 p.m. on a Monday. Alone, this would be disturb-

ing.
But we already knew of another incident in which this

I g ‘ student had been involved, which was simply too sensational-

ist and damaging to blazon across the top of the front page of
the Phi. We turned back the pages to a few weeks before,
where the same person had been arrested at 9:20 a.m. on a
Thursday for the same offense.
Once, it was disturbing. Twice, it indicates a serious prob-
lem. The frightening part is, this is the one who was caught in
"‘ . the act—we all know people who have managed to suffer from
alcoholic problems undetected and unbooked.
We can only hope that, when someone is arrested for an
x alcohol-related offense, that person will take a close look at his
or her patterns of alcohol use and recognize that they may have
a problem. In this case, it obviously did not happen.

If anyone is reading this, and knows someone to whom
similar behavior is common, please try to find a way to help
them.

We have no desire to ban alcohol; we can even understand
that drunkenness can sometimes be a way to relieve the
pressures of academia. But please, don’t let it be taken this far.

' Quote of the Week

“Why the hell can't we just eat?”

-- A W&L student in Evans Dining Hall
during the Founders’ Day celebration, obviously not
, impressed with the festivities

“ @112 iatng-tum lﬂlit

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

at Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bunny Wong

Assistant Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Dan Odenwald

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

, -‘ ‘Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

‘ Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi

R comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but TheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
q Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
‘ Telephone (703) 462-4059
-. Fax (703) 462-4060

““'"\

,...._.._. .1‘-¢  I

OPINION

rm 5 PUODING
Looks VERY
r=;tMIuAI°. 

The Ri/rag-tum Phi, January 20, 1995

EVANS
D~HALL
-LHtt.$.EN
~PbTAT0i:'$

. coud
- puaom‘
J sumuss

RPF

Artichokes inspire zealous living

MELISSA SAWYER,
’97

I ate artichoke hearts out of the can

the other night, and they were not“as"s“*

good as the real thing — the ones you
take apart piece by piece until you get
to the center. There is something in the
act of taking the bud apart that makes
the eating of an artichoke far more
interesting than eating bits of sterile,
canned vegetables with a shelf-life
longer than my eighteen years. Like-
wise, I think that it would be far more
interesting to cross the Yukon in a dog
sled or to sail the Atlantic in a twenty-
foot skipper, than to grab the next USAir
ﬂight from Roanoke. I learn many
things from my little daily adventures,
just as I learn patience in the face of
anticipation while eating an artichoke
heart. My physical trials, though cer-
tainly not as fearful as a solo voyage
across the ocean, have taught me en-
durance and independence. How then
in a world of canned artichokes and
Boeing 747s — in a world of biweekly
fraternity parties and pre-paid dining
hall meals — can we learn how to
survive? We learn because we are hu-
man; the little pieces of our days add up

in our minds. We study Adam Smith so
that we know why Tide costs more
than Brand X at Walmart; likewise, we
study our feelings when our friends
forget to call, so that we know what it
is like to be lonely.
So often stu- .

dents are told that 
‘college is not the “
real world, that
we have it easy in
everything that
we do, and that
our successes are
simply handed to
us on our silver

 

CC —“
Oﬂen students are
told that college is
not the real world,
that we have it easy

beginning of June , so will we plan for
retirement in our mid-sixties.

We will all follow the syllabi of our
lives just like we follow our daily plan-
ners here at W&L. The ever-critical
onlooker might suggest that there are
too many vari-
ables in the real
world with which
we have no expe-
rience with here.
However, any-
body who has ever
sat down to take a
pop quiz in an
early morning

spoons. Yes, we . . politics class, or
are given syllabi In everythlng that who has suddenly
by which we we do’ and that our received a call
h d l 0
iaclanenelise fullo hf successes are slmp leragrnrli t1h(z)1‘tmt:heti(i
date functions and handed t0 US on our very best friend
trips to the Baha- ' from high school
mas. Canwe sup- sllver spoons‘ has been in a car
pose that the so- 1  crash, is familiar
called real world with those vari-
willbeotherwise? ables. We are not

Perhaps it is naive to think that man
establishes completion dates for his
goals, but our lives will undoubtedly
be a series of important events. Just as
we hope to go to Fancy Dress on March
4, so will we expect to have children by
age forty. Just as the seniors have
planned for their senior party at the

LETTERS

immune to the accidents of daily life,
even if they may be somewhat con-
densed and simplified, like my arti-
choke hearts. Their flavor is there
where a close friend is rushed to the
hospital for alcohol poisoning, or we
are invited to be part of an honor soci-
ety; when we go through rush only to

be denied a bid at our ﬁrst choice or
when we find that we cannot afford
groceries for the rest of the month
because tuition went up; when we find
ourselves lying face down in the gutter
because the bottle was a little to big,
and the night a little too short. .

For some students more than oth-
ers, W&L is the real world. There is a
surprising subculture here of people
who are alien to the ease of college.
These are the people who eat the arti-
choke apart leaf by leaf until they get to
the center. These are the people who
work part-time jobs to pay for their
books,orwearwhite high-heelsinJanu-
ary because they do not own bone
colored ones; these are the people who
have suffered emotions and
made friends who are not afraid to
share a bathroom.

Maybe we are stronger than we think
when we graduate from W&L. Out
experience here is perhaps just the con-
densed version, the easy-access canned
artichoke.

We already know how to set goals
and how to reach them. We know how
to cry and laugh and love;we know
how to win and to lose. Someday, as
the cynics say, when the real thing hits
us full force in the head, we will al-
ready know what the artichoke tastes
like, and we will just have to work at
getting to its heart.

Lee Chapel no place for sex

To the editor:

I wanted to point out an upcoming event which
disturbs me. On January 26, Suzi Landolphi will
deliver a commentary entitled “Hot, Sexy, and
Safer”. I am not disturbed ‘about the topic, but the
location of its delivery. I do not think that I am
alone in this, but it seems to me that there is
something wrong about holding a presentation of

No qualifier
needed for
‘Generals’

To the editor:

In the January 13, 1995, issue of the
Phi a headline at the top of the sports
page referred to the “Men’s basket-
ball” team,while a headline farther
down on the page referred to the “Lady
Generals” basketball team. There are
no “Lady Generals”. There are no
“Gentleman Generals”. All of W&L’s
teams are just plain “Generals”. Keep-
ing the teams straight without calling
them by an inaccurate name will make
it harder for your staff when it comes to
crafting headlines, but anything else
wouldn’t be right.

James M. Phemister

Head Coach Women’s Cross Country
Assistant Coach Women’s Track
and Field

this nature in LEE CHAPEL. There is a dignity and
an aura to Lee Chapel that invites such speakers as
William F. Buckley Jr., and enables us to hold
such serious forums as open trials or Honor

system orientations.

Joining, as the publicity says, “America’s most
outrageous SEXpert in a frank and funny celebra-
tion of great sex — with audience participation ”
(emphasis added) debases such dignity. I feel that

Mark Tobias

lo¢ll¢i’S to the editor mag be submitted

to the Phi in our University Center
l mailbox. or they mag be mailed to:
The Ping-tam Phi

P.O Box 899

loexington, Virgina 24-450

 

L_._.._...__________

Ms. Landolphi ’s presentation ought to be moved to a more
appropriate location, like Northen Auditorium. I ask the
organizers of this event to take this into consideration and
please move the location.

I know that if it is insisted upon that this be delivered in
Lee Chapel, I will not be present, and I would hope to as
that other students not be as well.

 

—?

 
 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1995  PAGE 3 ' .
‘I
et c 1c en pox, urn pin , an 1e
G h’ k t   ' k d d’
floor and fanned myself with a copy of face in public and then possibly spread 1) shouldn’t there be a law against —
DREAM LAND Thté:‘nR0.(‘,':Ilc(bridge Weekly. I was the (V:/}l]l;l‘l::.enpox ispretty resourceful in zélloyvttng W(i:llar<tl ?Scott to live in Loans Safe Sex
- gelgsl . _ _ _ ' oc rige ouny. it
“‘°““"“       ti W°      In a     
ercwas U , y . ge er once a year 0 urn ris mas E L0
My first joke of 1995 is: This past old gum. _ _ like Kurt Loder on MTV News.  trees and a picture of it ends up on the gggsgﬁtféugsinraelgﬁliﬁzgcai1] it All students are invited to join
week I l'lad23l1lCl(€l'1 ticéxiljow, latpgh. I wentléo theﬁiprirrnary, wherle ‘tbs is ltiut Just opebof trll’_1':]Il’IIa‘IL){ S‘l(Ctl;VlfJ\’lS/‘RI’ front pa of the local newspaper. _ View yourcase and hand youschsck Suzi Landolphi’ Ameriaps leading
es, 1 am years 0 . 0 not ang nurses to me a , yes sirree, a op ions on a e . in e 3) P ably as many people in this can Paul wright at 463 4360 or

around first graders on a ular basis,

chicken pox. My prize was my own
thei

 

network is totally dependent on view-
ers

 

town own tuxedos as own shotguns.

 

‘Adam Branson.

“Sexpert” in Lee Chapel on Thurs-
day, January 26, at 8:00 p.m. for

andldowashmy handsa playing in room in nfir— who are too 4) lt’s been a lon time since l’ve “ ,,
public playgrounds. And, boy, did I mary equipped ' weak to change thought about my gbetta fish, Betta fﬁﬁit’ S::3(;’u;:d Safgl a frank;
. . . . geous iscussiono
get it. with a TV with the channel. Theta pi, Safe

ltallbegan in class, as all pain does. remote control, ——-—-— C C Bein ' bedall when l returned to my a mentl Free Dance LGSSOH '
I sat doing my work when all of a my own sink, and . day ma me so checked on Betta Theta Pi found in ‘
suddenIstartedtosweatandfeelchills, a closet with the I found that calamlne bored that I actu- out he was dead in his shipwreck. I Free Dan lasseswillbe avail- C do
like I do when I see Lynda Carter as word “closet” you-on turns yourface the ally visualized my snspeetsome ﬁsh form ofchicken pox_ able to an W ington and Lee sm_ 01118 1311
Wonder Woman on the fX network. stenciled on the , , . UPC0ml m€31S, I think roommate is next. dents_ The classes will teach Fox
Following the Golden Rule of College door. I want to C0107’ Of your sister S pmk kind _ ike the Che 'ngoutoftheinﬁr-mary means Trot’ waltz, jitter-b Tango, .
Studentliealih Carealdﬁcidedlshould make C163’ "OW, plastic doll house. I think ff _ ”‘ ‘he that you eventually have to go back to Rhumba,and Cha—Cha. eclasses Comedlaniohnny lnmperifrosn ,
go to bed. _ before I on, th. eﬁect is used to kee . ”bles and class_ Encouraged by one professor wmbetaughtby Frank R0“ of New York will be perfonriing in

This is probably a good time to that the ses ls _ _ . P 3135 C0mm€r- whoshallremainnameless-—hisexact Roanoke on January 24, fro :00 General Headquarters 011 Saturday,
explain my devotion to my blue el - and doctors in the male chicken pox victims cials. Nothing words were «you iook like hen” _ 1 to 9:00 The lessons will last half January 21, at 9:00.p'.m. Admission
tric blanket. My mother bought it infirmary were from wan"-n to Show made me h ier returned to my daily Schedule. I he and hounand wmbe . on the hour will be free. In addition to Lampert,
me when I was 10 so I could make it top-notch and . _ g _ than vege "an back of the mind was the pose‘ ' - and halfhotm All st ms are web the even will also feature Master
throughtheharshFloridawinternights. reall helped thetrface in public and lasagna delivered ity of e ing a phantorn of the come to mend, with or without of Cars mes Matt O,Brien and .y
I used to crank it up whenever the me. _ rn not then possibly spread the str." ht from Opera ask to wear while the apartner, ' C0m€d13n Betsy Gwen-
temperature fellbelow 50 degrees. One Just kidding. . Le Pate Evans pox healed,
momingwhen my mothertriedtowake To deal with Vlru-53 Dining I~lall. But Getting chicken pox at age 20 is a
me up for school, she jumped back the chicken pox then again,Idon’t little scary, especially kn ing that]
when she touched the blanket because itching and swell- have to be sick to face the possibility ofrub when l’m ,.
it was so hot. I got to sleep in an extra ing of my face, feeithat way. 25 and maybe even mumps when I’m '
15 minutes. the told me to ying moti - 30. Scarletfeverwhenlretir erha . __ ,

Well, getting back to the paragraph cov)er myself with calamine lotion. less in bed with chicken pox, ful If you’re like me and yo e ne T H E R I N G T U M P H I .
before last, I went back to apart- After a day, I found that calamine lo- dining hall food,while pletely pink, had a childhood disease, the only way
ment, got under my electri anket, tion turns your face the color of your and under the inﬂuenc prescription you can prepare yourself is to pick out K I D T E S T E D
and for the next several hours shifted sister’s pink plastic doll house. I think drugs, offers you the opportunity to clothes which match the color pink_ 7 F
my heat dial from 10 to 1 to 10 to 1 to this effect is used to keep male chicken pondersomethingswhich,well,hadn’t And STAY AWAY FROM
10 and then I threw the blanket on the pox victims from wantingto show their crossed your mind recently, like: Tl-[E PLAYGROUND, M O T H E R  P R O V E D

TALKBACK ,.

If you could wrestle in any type of food, what would it be, and why?

       

   



 

Emily Framptom ’98, Paducah, Crissy Donnelly ’96, Wayne,
KY - “Mashed potatos, because of their PA - “Jello, because it’s jiggly.”
viscosity.”

Sarah Ferguson ’97, Rocky
Mound, VA - “Spaghetti, because you
could tie up your opponent.”

Michelle Bauman ’97,
Shawnee, KS — “Gak een
slime), because it’s cool.’ ‘

Lauren Guthrie ’97, Lansdale, PA
- “Frozen yogurt, because it’s not fat-
tening when you lick it off.”

y ,

Congratulations to ttlliic  Chi Ghrncga pllccillgc Class

/éac/Le/lg" 7/lulu/fa gar-cia I We} elil A

meta" ﬁwier Jot, gut. /eat.//92.4

«4mw/a Knwllwcl W/;~.s</...t...,zz ,4.,..,../.. /et..,, »
Siepéwzeﬁmwer ;.,.,..»t,;...t.,,... /a../..//; 12...,

C"/....-iii.-W 6../Z./W. /4/;,,J(,//es ogmm gm“

/are C/MIA» 3.,,,J<.~,t,.., :z>,.,..~./e smelt, *

., J(e,..la// Ci...-ct./.....l.t /4",? Jomm gm ‘M/a/4,,
grin ibouaiwlr .j(a[/terine modéaine Jéwn '1/l/am .

/44* jenneff jaunt/gr We/Qnrzcl WW. 7/l/rig/tt

{mi/it jmmrfom Sign; page Caro/ine yam

Dave Lupo ’96, Kinnelon, NJ -
“SPAM - ’nuff said.”

1

  
      
      

 

and TRAVEL FREE! Call for our finalized 1995
Party Schedulesll (800) 95-BREAK

Summer Jobs  

at Washington and Lee

-Counselors for Summer Scholars
June 28 - ]u1 29, 1995

Summer Scholars is a four—week cademic program for 100 rising
high school seniors. Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10
students in Graham—Lees dormitorq and plan evening and weekend
activities. Ten positions are available. Application deadline,
Februarq 28, 1995.

-Special Pro ams Resident Assistants
June 2 - August 31, 1995

The Office of Special Programs emploqs 4 W&L students to serve as host/
hostesses for a wide varietq of Special Programs including Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities management
and housekeeping, receptions, and transportation.

Application Deadline, March 17, 1995.

For further information, please contact the Office of Special Programs,
Howard House, 463-8723

Love, the Phi staff

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

Winter Clearance Sale

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

(703)463-5988

  
   

 

x9

  

I
"(<-

\\\\§

  

/I ‘/1
\\\(

l""'il|||||(i"" -vmullllr-" "III

’_ ‘ The Ring-tum Phi, January 20, 1995

IIIn""Itl|i|1" uuuv A

La Fronteriza

Flour 5%..

Tortillas

        
    
   

 

Harris Teeter

Butter-Me;
Nots Brscurts

PAGE 7

The W&L men’s swim team avenged last season’s
loss to Catholic with a 113-92 victory.

David Stillman and Nathan Hottle led the Generals in
the contest.

Stillman turned in record performances in both the 50
and 100 frestyle whil Hottle contributed meet records in
the 200 IM and 200 breast.

The win, coming off a 132-54 pounding of Buffalo
State provides the Generals with momentum going into
this weekend’s tough matches against Emory University
and Johns Hopkins in Chapel Hill.

Indoor Track

Both the men’s and women’s indoor track squads
opened the season at the Lynchburg Invitational this past
weekend.

All seven women that went picked up a win in the

Megan Weidmaier

Yet another freshman sensation, Weidmaier has come
on to be one of the Generals top performers this season.

In wins over Buffalo State and Catholic, she set two
meet records and was a key part of two record setting relay
teams.

Against Buffalo State, she won the 200 ﬂy in a meet
record time. Against Catholic, she followed up her
amazing perforrnanc b winning the 500 free and setting
another meet record ' he 200 free. Her ﬁnal achieve-
ment of the week was teaming up for a piece of the new

(Men ’s swimmers defeat Catho1ic\

contest. Senior co-captain Sue Deutsch led the team
with personal best times in her wins in the mile and two
mile runs.

Sophomores Stephanie Sterling and Erin Gneidziekjo
each turned in wins in the 60-yard hurdles and long jump
respectively.

Senior co-captain Kim Herri
440 yard dash and sophomore
the 880

ulled out awin in the
alie Messmore won
yard run. W&L also took first in the 440 yard

relay.

The men’s team was led by its freshmen. Omar
Moneim placed second in the shot put and Seth McKinley
took sixth in the long jump.

Senior James Mab was right behind Moneim
with a third place ﬁni in the shot, and Kingsley
Chukwu took home a sixth place mark in the 440 yard
dash. '

Both teams compete Saturday at Virginia Tech.

Athletes of the Week

Nathan Hottle

Hottle led the Generals to victroy against Buffalo
State and Catholic.

In the two meets, Hottle set four meet records while
notching two wins.

Against Buffalo State, his times in the 200 IM and
200 back are now new meet standards. A ' st Catho-
lic, Hottle tore ﬁve seconds off the previou cord in the
200 breast mark. That time put him in consideration for
National Qualifying.

His final meet record of the week came in the 200 IM

records in the 400 and 200 free relays. against Catholic as well,

L

J

‘ .
“ \\\||\\‘

"°‘   * = \1[S»$.li.A3Vu?.§L‘§.‘E.§{¥“R’?.LA 1;

V T

" Selected Var’ieties 8 01' Harris T9919!‘
Tma s

Nonfat
~ Burritos Yogurts

 

    

A
prunun --"'
ﬁlls“ ‘

t
it 
tr. :-
‘/41
l
\s
i\
r

  
 
  

  
 
 
    
 
       
    

Let us
combine all
your debts into one
_ easy-to- e pa ent.
Bad credit no problem. ALLaccepted based on ab ty to pay.
FAST lleun Is Just A Home CALI. Awnrl
Caudaym.mght1_305_537—3517, (21: HR RECORDING)

for‘. our FREE APPLlCA'l‘ION or write:
. BOX 645» HOLLYHOOD. FL 33022

W&L Art

‘W&L CAMPUS BY DAVID

   
 

   

   

Veriiieigeﬂili Or
SP

Oz. Hormel

Corn
Dogs
2 Liter Bgttle
Be sr Or _
Dre Peps:

   
 

S

KEELING - S/N LIMITED EDITION

  
      

‘W&L CAMPUS COPPER-

A

,,,,,, The ,=,,,,a,p,,,,,_ PLATE, RESTRIKES HAN D'COLORED

Single Stem
Carna trons

 

A ~ 12 Pk. 12 Oz. cans
« Diet Pepsi Or

Peps: ___j 339

‘J .W. BROCKEBROUGH -

I 868 SIGNED CHECK

'R.E. LEE SIGNATURE ON
W&L LETTERHEAD

Vintage Sgltzer

3/ O0

Designer/Decorator

Scottowels

' it
A §3:’n. .

‘W&L COLONNADE, PEN/INK
BY D. BLACKWELL

 

0 1 L11‘.
4 P k Selected Varieties
Whit‘; _ 199 Tropr_cana  0 . .. I

I    46 Oz. 4 East Washington Street

‘ ' _ Selected Varieties — L’“”‘"‘g‘°“’ VA 24450

' gftraliano Presidents choice 2/ 0 (7°3)464'6464

Dressmgs_m Oz.

09
Bread 16 02.1

Prices Effective Through Jan. 24, 1995

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, January 18 Through January 24, 1995 IN OUR LEXINGT0NdS'Sit0RE
rm, we. Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladiy Accept Federal Foo amps.

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

 

 

Last Week:

BASKETBALL- (M) L-to R. Macon and Emory and Henry
(W) L- to Va. Wesleyan and R. Macon

SWIMMING—(M&W) defeated Catholic 113-92; 109-96

Wru~:s'ruNc- 0-3 at W&L Quadrangular

INDOOR TRACK- at Lynchburg Invitational (Individ.)

  
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

After completing a successful
three-game homestand last week,
the W&L men’s basketball team
ran into stiffer resistance on the.
road this week, dropping the ﬁrst
two games of their road trip to
Randolph-Macon and Emory &
Henry.

On Sunday, the Generals lost
a tough 74-59 decision at
Randolph-Macon.

Poor shooting on all fronts
plagued the Generals, as they shot
only 37% from the ﬁeld, includ-
ing 5-22 from three-point range,

S

@112 ﬂing-mm ilﬂhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

and hit only two of seven from
the foul line.

Junior Cam Dyer, the Gener-
als’ season scoring leader, led
the way with 15 points and eight
rebounds.

Senior Mark Connelly con-
tributed 10 points and ﬁve re-
bounds, and Derek Carter and
Chris Couzen recorded eight
points each.

Wednesday took the Gener-
als to face the Emory and Henry
Wasps. Poor shooting hurt the
Generals again in the ﬁrst half,
leading to a 52-44 halftime deﬁ-
cit.

The Wasps threatened to put
the game away by scoring the

ﬁrst six points of the second half,
but the Generals came roaring
back with a 20-5 run to take a one
point lead with a little over 13
minutes to play.

A pair of threes for Emory &
Henry opened it up again, but the
Generals made one more run to
cut the lead to 89-87 on a Jon
Coffman 3-pointer with 2:15 to
play.

However, the Wasps re-
sponded with six straight points
from Shannon Scott in the final
1:30 to clinch the 96-89 win.

Coffman posted a team-high
24 points, including seven 3-
pointers, tying a W&L school
record.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Hobbled by injuries, Washington & Lee’s
women’s basketball team dropped its fourth game
in a row Thursday night in the Warner Center.

The 67-49 defeat to Randolph-Macon was the
Generals’ tenth loss in 14 games this season and
leaves them 3-9 in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

W&L played its second straight game without
injured freshman Rachel Read, limiting the squad
to just seven players.

The Generals trailed by eleven at the intermis-
sion due to six-of-20 shooting. They also turned
the ball over 17 times in the half while being
outrebounded 24-16.

The Yellow-Jackets (10-3, 8-2 ODAC) took
advantage of W&L’s problems with scoring runs
of seven and nine to lead by as many as 13.

Freshman Tonia Dean kept the Generals in the
ball game with six ﬁrst-half points on 3-4 shooting.
Junior Sandra Holmes, who has been bothered by
a sore ankle, was held to four points and four
rebounds. However, a Holmes bucket with two
seconds left in the half kept W&L hopes alive
going into the ﬁnal 20 minutes.

After a Randolph-Macon three-pointer by Jenn
Kohler (19 points) opened up a 14 point Yellow-
Jacket lead, Dean sparked a 10-4 run with a tum-
around shot in the lane and a put-back of an
offensive rebound.

With six points in the W&L run, Dean helped

The women’s basketball team has endured a rough season to this point. Injuries
and some tough losses have dampened the mood for the Generals.

Women suffer rough week-
end; fall to Randolph-Macon

File hoto

close the gap to 32-24 ﬁve minutes into the second
half.

Kohler, though, nailed another three-point shot
to spoil the run. W&L never got closer than nine
and trailed by as many as 18 in the ﬁnal six minutes.
Even a tape of the “W&L Swing” was eaten up
during the Yellow-Jacket onslaught.

Kohler tallied 15 second—half points for R-MC,
including three three-pointers. Sandy Krispin to-
taled 12 points, six boards, and six steals.

For the Generals, Dean had 12 points and ten
rebounds, Holmes added eight points and nine
boards, and senior Amy Mihal tallied seven_ of
each. Freshman Michelle Hicks hit three-of-six
shots and totaled nine points in 21 minutes of work.

Reduced to seven players, W&L head coach
Terri Dadio used everyone for at least 19 minutes.
Only fourof the 12 Yellow-Jackets who entered the
game stayed on for that long.

Tuesday night, the Generals dropped a tight
contest to Virginia Wesleyan, 64-59. Down 60-47
in the ﬁnal minutes, Washington & Lee went on a
14-4 run but did not have enough time left to get
closer.

Dean had a huge game against the Marlins,
wracking up 14 points and 15 rebounds. Holmes
came off the bench, shook off the sore ankle, and
scored 17 on 6-for-11 shooting. She and Dean are
now tied for the team’s rebounding lead (8.0).

The Generals are on the road for their next two
games, beginning at Guilford on Saturday. Tues-
day, the team travels to Eastern Mennonite for
another ODAC game before returning to the Warner
Center, where they are 1-7, next Thursday to host
Randolph-Macon Women’s College.

If you are interested in
sports, try writing for the
Phi. Get in touch with us

at 462-4060,
What are you waiting for?

or 462-4059.

Connelly hit for 22 points and
grabbed nine rebounds, and
sophomore Chris Couzen hit four
from 3-point land for a career-
high 18 points.

The two defeats leave the
Generals at 6-7 overall, 3-5 in the
ODAC, with four out of the next
ﬁve games on the road, begin-
ning today at Catholic.

Head Coach Verne Canﬁeld
continued to emphasize the need
for improved team defense, hold-
ing one all-defensive practice.

“We’re going to keep work-
ing at it,” he stated. “My philoso-
phy is you’re not supposed to
have an off-night playing defense.
We need to have all ﬁve playing

This Week:

SWIMMING- (M&W) vs. Johns Hopkins, Emory
BASKETBALL-(M) at Catholic; (W) at Guilford
WRES'l‘LING- W&L Invitational

INDOOR TRACK- at Virginia Tech Invitational

together, because when you have
weaknesses on offense, you need
to make up for it on defense.”

Overall, he praised the team’s
work ethic, saying, ‘‘I am very
pleased with their effort. They
can’t play any harder. Play more
consistently? Yes, but not
harder.”

He cited the many difﬁculties
players face at W&L, from rigor-
ous academics to lack of peer
approval to a condensed sched-
ule due to winter break and ex-
ams.

“1 think it’s tougher for a Di-
vision III athlete, and W&L is
unique. The academics, the hours
of practice, and the sacriﬁce —

JANUARY 20, 1995

Randolph-Macon snaps W&L win streak at three

it’s tough for any student-ath-
lete. This is tough on these guys
and you have to be careful that
fatigue doesn’t build up, because
once it does, it rears up and bites
you hard.”

When asked about motivation,
Canﬁeld declared, “We take pride
in the fact that we really prepare
these guys, but it still has to come
from within. You can get used to
winning, and you can get used to
not winning, and you have to be
careful of that last one. It’s tough
to motivate when you’re losing,
but the kids really care. We really
work over there, and these little
things are going to pay off down
the road.”

Quadrangular rough for W&L

By ERIC SWENSEN
Phi Staff Writer

Last Saturday at Doremus
Gym, the Generals had a rough
time in the W & L Quadrangular
meet, losing to three talented
teams in Davidson, Pensacola
Christian and York.

Whilethe Generalsstruggled
as a team, some individual wres-
tlers turned in excellent perfor-
mances.

In their opening contest of
the day, the Generals were de-
feated by Davidson 25-16.

Rob de Clerk took an 8-4
decision in the 142 lb. class , and
Robert Hull (Heavyweight) and
Colin Looney (177 lb. class)
picked up the other Generals
victories.

Next, the Generals faced

Pensacola Christian and came up
a little short, losing 33-24. Hull
earned respect as he was the only
one of four Generals wrestlers to
pick up his victory in this match
on the mat.

He dominated his match from
the beginning, and was well ahead
on points when he recorded a pin
at 6:09.

In their ﬁnal contest of the
day, the Generals faced a very
tough York team and came out
on the losing end of a 47-0 deci-
sion.

A bright spot for the Generals
was in the heavyweight class, as
Hull battled to the end against a
qualiﬁer for the national touma-
ment, but eventually dropped an
11-5 decision.

Hull’s excellent early season
performance is even more im-
pressive considering he has not

wrestled competitively in two
years.

While he was a state cham-
pion as a heavyweight his senior
year in high school, he chose to
play lacrosse his ﬁrst two years
here at W & L.

Coach Gary Franke is pleased
with Hull’s early season perfor-
mance, but notes that Hull can
improve further. “Hull is still
making fundamental mistakes,
but that is true of ourwhole team.

About the meet, Franke said,
“Overall, we were a little disap-
pointed with the meet. We’re a
little disappointed with the
middle weights.” Franke noted,
however, that “They are working
hard to improve.”

This Saturday, beginning at
9:30 a.m., the Generals will host
the W & L Invitational at the
Warner Center.

File Photo

The Generals exacted a measure of revenge for a close loss last year as they
defeated Catholic 109-96 on Saturday. With the win, the team improves to 5-0
on the year. The Generals travel to Chapel Hill this weekend for a tough tri

meet against Johns Hopkins and Emory University.

Swimmers topple Catholic

By Soorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
women’s swimming team sent a
tough Catholic squad packinglast
Saturday by hanging on for a
109-96 triumph at Cy Twombly
Memorial Pool.

The victory enabled the Gen-
erals to remain perfect with a 5-
0 overall mark.

Coach Kiki Jacobs was ex-
tremely pleased with the result.

“It was a big win for us,” she
commented.“Itwas the ﬁrst meet
that we knew would be tough.”

Freshman Megan Wiedmaier
dominated the meet by triumph-
ing in two individual races, in
one of which she established a
new meet record. She also as-
sisted the relay team in carving
out another meet record.

Unlike the previous meet with
Buffalo State, the Generals shot
out to a hot start against Catholic,

winning the ﬁrst four races.

Sophomore Laura Marshall
got things rolling with a victory
in the 50 yard freestyle with a
time of 26.59.

Sophomore Jen Miller fol-
lowed that up with a conquest in
the 100-yard freestyle by ﬁnish-
ing in 58.41 seconds.

Wiedmaier then took center
stage as she swept both the 200
and 500 yard freestyle. Her meet
record was established in the 200-
free with a log of 2:04.75, and
she finished the 500-free in
5:29.35.

The Catholic women rared
back to post victories in ﬁve of
the ﬁnal seven events, but it
wasn’t enough to overtake the
Generals.

Junior Rebekah Prince was a
key factor in holding off Catho-
lic as she broke a meet record in
the 200-back with a time of
2:21.12.

Also, W&L picked up crucial
points by placing second, third,

and fourth in both the 1000-free
and 200-breast.

The team of Wiedmaier,
Miller, Marshall, and senior Stacy
Coﬁeld smashed the meet record
in the 400 yard freestyle relay
with a mark of 3:55.29.

“Overall, we swam pretty
well,” Jacobs remarked. “A lot
of people contributed.”

A meet at Mary Baldwin
scheduled for this past Tuesday
was postponed due to illness on
the Mary Baldwin side. The meet
was rescheduled for Wednesday,
January 25.

Next on the agenda for the
Generals is a road trip to the
University of North Carolina on
Saturday foran imposing tri-meet
with Emory and Johns Hopkins,
who were both top 20 ﬁnishers at
the 1994 NCAA Division III
Championships.

‘‘It will be a real tough meet
for us,” Jacobs stated. “We’re
just going down there to swim
well.”

5-

t‘

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, J anugig 20, 1995

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

  

The World 
Quake kills 3000 in Japan

About 3000 people died Tuesday in Kobe, Japan after a earthquake
occured. One thousand and people are still missing, and 6,300 are injured.
The 7.4 quake was the worst for Japan since 1948 when a 7.1 earthquake
killed 3700 people in Fukui Prefecture.

Russian Prime Minister discusses
cease-ﬁre

Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chronomyrdn and a delegation met
earlier this week for peace talks that could lead to a cease ﬁre. Fighting
remained intense. Previous attempts at ceace ﬁre have failed.

Christopher threatens to halt aid

Secretary of State Warren Christopher warned Tuesday that US.
foriegn aid for Russia could be cut if ﬁghting continued. He said the United
States will wait before any summit meetings occur between the U.S. and
Russia.

Judge finds Tribune in contempt of
court

A Singapore judge found an American professor and offﬁcials of the
International Herald Tribune newspaper guilty of contempt of court. He
ﬁned them more than $14, 500 over an opinion piece critical of Asian
regimes. The case is the latest in a series of legal actions that have put the
island state in opposition to Western countries.

The Nation

 

House approves workplace laws for
Congress

The House approved and sent to President Clinton legislation that
would bring Congress into full compliance with eleven workplace laws.
Congress had exempted itself from major labor, safety and civil rights laws
passed in the past 50 years.

G.O.P. slows down on Contract

House G.O.P. leaders began backing away from their ambitious time-
table. They wanted to adopt their “Contract with America” in the ﬁrst 100
days. Cutting spending and taxes while balancing the budget may take
longer than they had expected.

The State

Democrats criticizeAllen’s proposed
cuts

Several Democratic budget-makers blasted Allen administration ofﬁ-
cials, charging that Governor George Allen is paying for his proposed tax
cuts by borrowing money for prison construction. Allen’s proposed tax
cuts have been criticized as being too harsh.

J MU President angers faculty

Key faculty members at James Madison University are calling fora vote
of conﬁdence on President Ronald E. Carrier’s ability to lead the school.
The president angered some faculty when he proposed drastic changes at
the school. Whether the vote will be allowed will be decided by the 35-
member faculty senate.

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
  

Chocolate pudding wrestling draws a crowd

I . our friends at the SAB for being a wee bit

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum‘ Phi

_ ginia. What to do, what to do? This week, we

- one had to represent the Phi and we were glad
, to do it. We decided to exploit the gentility of
" the event by wrestling as Miss Betsy Ann and
. Miss Lori Dayle as the notes of Madonna’s

i wrestling is an interesting event. It’s sloppy,

. vidual matches, and they have our heartfelt

Lori Dayle’s Phi pudding awards.

. Dunlap, with his amazing purple cape and
' gold lame-clad ladies. This is a man who truly
, appreciates the dignity of chocolate pudding

standing display of inebriation. It seemed a

to the very large gent in the very small Speedo.

. goes out to Eric Swenson. Eric wins our

- showed up. We were afraid to wrestle in

By BETSY GREEN AND LORI RAMSEY
Phi Staff Writers

It’s a Wednesday night in Lexington, Vir-

came to a rather an usual conclusion: choco-
late pudding wrestling.

Chocolate pudding wrestling is less than
typical for Washington and Lee women, or
even temporarily visiting Randolph-Macon
Women’s College women like Lori. But some-

“Like a Virgin” wafted through the gym.
We have to say that chocolate pudding

smelly, and it doesn’t come out easily in the
wash.
There were several winners of the indi-

congratulations. However, we have a few
awards to add to the list. So, without further
ado, we present Miss Betsy Ann and Miss

The Showmanship Award goes to Robert

wrestling.
The “Lost My Left Shoe” Award goes to

disorganized. Miss Lori Dayle and Miss Betsy
Ann had no one to wrestle against but each
other! Imagine our distress.

The “This Bud’s For You” Award goes to
Ruth Henry and Susie Prevost the most out-

miracle that they could stand up, much less
wrestle.
The Keep America Off Crack Award goes

He showed so much ﬂesh he made Miss Lori
Dayle blush. Miss Betsy Ann would like to go
on the record as being opposed to visible butt
cleavage.
The Most Attractive Female Wrestlers
Award goes to us, of course. ‘Nuff said.
The Most Attractive Male Wrestler Award

affection for having the sense to dress appro-
priately, even if it was in a Santa suit.

The What Are You Doing In Our Pudding
Award goes to the two random townies who

pudding that townies had been in.

Finally, the Tapioca Pudding Award for
Blandness goes to the lack of attractive men
showing off their bods. Miss Lori Dayle espe-
cially needs this because she is on exchange
from a woman’s college. Miss Betsy Ann will
take whatever she can get.

Wrestling in food is an opportunity not to
be missed. Hey, SAB, we’re ready for the
next level. Bring on the Jell-O, the mashed
potatoes, the whipped cream, the tossed salad.
You put it in a ring, we’ll wrestle in it.

University unveils

new hazing policy
for W&L Greeks

u->From HAZING, page 1

Gamma Delta guilty of violating the university’s
hazing policy. FIJI was then suspended from cam-
pus; it returned this year, only after completing a 10-
step program demonstrating changes in attitude and
action. .

The IFC will continue to exercise its power if any
new complaints prove legitimate.

As to whether any complaints have actually been
lodged, IFC President Kevin Batteh prefers not to
comment.

At last Tuesday's IFC meeting, Batteh reminded
fraternity representatives of the university’s new
hazing policy.

Batteh especially underscored an excerpt from
the policy reading that, in the view of W&L faculty,
any form of hazing “violates individual dignity.”

“All such transgressions,” the policy concludes,
“will continue to be prosecuted vigorously.”

If hazing is indeed a menace on campus, so too are
the consequences._

(Arch
Nil-I FEVER

The l'“.ing—tum Fm

ODK taps 32 at
Convocation

BY Mrcrurzr. I-Ir-zwu-:1'r
PHI STAFF WRITER

 

When he learned that Alabama was last in public
school education, William E. Smith ’63 said he was
shaken from his comfort zone and compelled to do
something about it.

Smith spoke Thursday in Lee Chapel on “The
Origins of Leadership: A Liberal Arts Perspective”
during the Founders’ Day/Omicron Delta Kappa
convocation. He talked about how a liberal arts
education can provide the foundation for leader-
ship. A Washington and Lee graduate, Smith is
chairman and CEO of Royal Cup, Inc.

Smith became involved with Leadership Out of
Bounds where he started studying public education.
At the time Alabama ranked in the middle of south-
eastern states. In 1990, the states that had trailed
Alabama were now ahead.

“We had more portable classrooms than in any
state,” he said.

Many schools didn’t have any foreign languages
offered in the curriculum, and in some high schools,
the most advanced math was called general math,
he said. Two-thirds of food stamp recipients and
prisoners were high school dropouts.

To correct the problem, Smith founded a
grassroots organization called A+. The organiza-
tion has over 12,000 corporate and individual mem-
bers. He said they traveled across the oountry to ﬁnd
working programs and to reform education in Ala-
bama.

He credits his education at W&L for providing
him with the tools for leadership. He said W&L led
him to discover what is right and wrong. He said his
interaction with James Leybum and other great men
changed his life.

Smith lived with Leyburn for two years as an
undergraduate. He said Leybum expanded his mind.

“I can still hear in my mind’s ear the notes of his
music coming into my room,” he said.

He said these experiences created an atmosphere
for leadership to ﬂourish.

“It’s been my opinion that a liberal arts education
is the source of social leadership,” he said.

Smith said, in recent years, there have been too
many poor leaders and too few good leaders.

He cited two types of leadership: transactional
and transformational. He said transactional leader-
ship concerns itself with the management and effi-
ciency of an organization. A transformational leader
unites separate interests to pursue higher goals and
seeks justice, liberty and equality, he said.

Smith believes a liberal arts education shapes
this perspective and provides moral literacy. He
said it engenders a tolerance of diversity and starts
a conversation that continues for a lifetime.

He cited Plato, Aristotle, Socrates and Leyburn
as examples of good leadership.

“We do not do our world any favors if we do not
know who they are or for what they stand,” he said.

In the ODK initiation which followed, 28 stu-
dents and four honorary initates were tapped. The
honorary initiates were Dr. Jane Horton, Captain
Robert Peniston, Frederick Schaeffer ’64 and Wil-
liam Smith, Jr. ’63. The students were Khristopher
Ahrend, Jeff Chapuran, John Earnhardt, Barbara
Jane League, Elizabeth Misiaveg, Randal Noe, all
law students; seniors Chris Albert, Kelly Brotzman,
Elise Brown, Alan Christensen, Mark Crider, Alex
Cross, Robert Eison, Jennifer Hickes, Marina Jack-
son, Ashley Kauffman, Timothy Kinsey, Noelle
Parrott, Julia Podlas, Beth Provanzana, Duane Van
Arsdale and Jonathan van Dyke; and juniors Justin
Dardani, John Morrison, II, Josephine Schaeffer,
Jesse Taylor and Robert Turner.

Hot, Sexy and Safer in Lee Chapel

J‘

propriety of having the presentation in Lee Chapel.

I “It’s totally disrespectful to Robert E. Lee,” said sophomore Hunter Armstrong. ,,
“Up until a few years ago, men weren't allowed in the chapel without a coat and tie,
and women in dress. Now they’re letting some skanky masturbation lady come and
speak.”

Student Activities Director Michelle Richardson said Landolphi is speak ing in
Lee Chapel because it is the only available facility.

“The Lenfest Centerwas our ﬁrst choice,” said Richardson, “but it’s not available
because they’re preparing for She Stoops to Conquer. The only other choices, such
as the Black Box Theater, are too small for a speaker of this nature.

“I understand the concern people have with this. Captain Peniston is going to
close the door and put up a divider to separate the crypt from the speaker.”

“Hopefully people will not be too offended,” said Richardson. “She’s pretty I‘
blunt, but it’s necessary information.”

After the presentation there will be a reception in Fairfax Lounge where
Landolphi’s book and pamphlets will be available.

FROM PHI STAFF REPORTS

“Guys! Wake up! Nobody cares how big your d*** is!”

Suzi Landolphi, the sex expert speaking in Lee Chapel next Thursday,
begins her book Hot, Sexy and Safer with this message.

Landolphi began lecturing on AIDS and safe sex in 1982. Because of the
demand for her performance, she founded the company Hot, Sexy and Safer.
She takes her performance to colleges and high schools across the country.

Her book, which the W&L Bookstore will carry, presents facts, plus
Landolphi’s own experiences and observations.

According to Landolphi, there are 2,862 ways to have an orgasm without
having intercourse. Men fake orgasms, too. And women never complain about
not ﬁnding a big enough penis.

The bluntness of these statements is causing some students to question the

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Michael Hewlett

 

