   

—;f 31:?  ";_?}:3

 G. '_.l7:_‘v ;,,fN.'.'lf~i = i; '-‘F gag:

; ,.-.. [V

WAwme';~;»~r a i..=.a.v 1,.-:,m3,,.,,  ..

 

  ‘—*"-“|VVeekend weathel 3 Ex QU RU '5 book Men S basketball
“ REV, EWECI drops game to
, 9 Hampden-Sgdneg Q;

 

i   W   U112 iRing—t11m iﬁlri

VOLUME 94, No..ﬁ

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 Kemp to speak at Mock
Convention Spring Kick-Off

BY MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

Possible Republican presidential candidate Jack
Kemp will speak on Tuesday, April 25 in front of Lee
Chapel.

“The real group responsible for bringing Kemp is
Contact, “ said Mock Convention Chairman David
Stewart, “because of their generosity of their decision
to co-sponsor this with us.”

Amidst growing concerns from Executive Com-

mittee members over Contact’s inability to bring ~

speakers, the committee voted Wednesday, Jan. 18 to
contribute $15,000 to the Mock Convention to bring
Jack Kemp for the Spring kick-off.

Contact president Andrew Schneider and repre-
sentative Jim Pike voted against the proposal.

Mock Convention tried to get Kemp before but he
declined because of money, said Contact Vice-Chair
and Mock Convention Speakers Chair Jason Bearden.

In an EC meeting two weeks ago, student president
Kevin Webb and Vice-president Alex Cross said
Contact had failed to bring enough prominent speak-
ers to the campus. At Monday night’s EC meeting,
Webb said Contact should look into whatever oppor-
tunities are out there to bring good speakers.

Schneider wanted Contact to bring a speaker on
their own to prove to the EC that the Committee is
doing their job.

Mock Con chairman and Contact member Bob
Ross disagreed.

“We have to be concerned with what’s best for the
university,” he said.

Contact representative Trey Copeland said getting
a good speaker for the Spring kick-off was essential
for a successful Mock Convention.

“Mock Convention is a big deal,” he said. “If the
kick-off doesn’t go off, it will make it harder to get
other good speakers.”

Catherine Bassett said Mock Convention will prob-
ably not get a big speaker like Kemp without Contact’s
support. '

Junior Andrew Olmen said with Contact’s sup-
port, Mock Convention will be able to raise more
money from other organizations.

“The Hill will recognize that other groups will
want speakers,” he said, “ and if they don’t give us
money, they’re will be less funds available.”

Schneider said Monday that Contact is no more
behind than previous committees.

“I’ve been on two other committees,” he said, “and
I know how fast and how slow things move.”

Jason Bearden said Contact needs to spend the
money on a big speaker. ,

‘‘I don’t think we can blow $20,000 on small

BY PETE WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

The pledges of Kappa Kappa
Gamma wanted R—E-S-P-E-C-T Fri-
day night, and they got it.

« Five girls in black boots took first
place in the 9th Annual Lip Synch

4 Contest mouthing the words to the

Aretha Franklin standard. Another
Kappa act, took second place for “Step
By Step” by the New Kids On The
Block. Sigma Phi Epsilon came in

,, third with a rock medley of three
songs.

Mary New, one of the winning
Kappas, said their victory shocked
her.

‘‘I about had a heart attack because
we weren’t out to win,” New said.
“We threw the thing together. Up on
stage, it fell into place.”

The contest, sponsored by Students
Against Rockbridge Area Hunger
in (SARAH), raised $2800 for local food
pantries, said eventvfounder Jerry
Darrell, director of University Food
Services. The winners will get Fancy
Dress tickets and cash. More than
500 people watched 21 acts.

I “If you stand up here and look out
at the crowd, everybody’s psyched,”
Darrell said. “It was the best show
we’ve ever had. There was not a

' flaw.”

The acts ranged from the provoca-
tive— Phi Delta Theta’s rendition of
“Strokin”’ featured shirtless guys
gyrating— to the innocent, Kappa
Sigma’s version of ‘‘I Got You Babe.”
It Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s act had
three opera singers in tuxedos mouth-
ing “O Sole Mio.” Two singers pulled

 

W&Lsdens n synch

 

the pants off their fellow singer, fresh-
man Jonathan Gorab. Gorab, now in
a pair of tiger-skin bikini briefs, main-
tained his serious air as the audience
roared.

Gorab said his act required diligent
preparation.

“I spent most of the night stripping
[on] the first ﬂoor of Graham-Lees
testing people’s reactions,” Gorab
said.

Several acts had gender themes.
Females in the audience cheered a Pi
Beta Phi act that showed women lead-
ing Washington & Lee men around.

“We were working off the stereo-
types of the W&L girl and guy and the
Hollins girl,” said freshman Dana
Hood.

Phi Kappa Psi pledges kicked a
Lisa Loeb look-a-like off the stage.

“It looked to me like it was a rape
scene,” said freshman Nicole Rich-
ard. “I was booing.”

About 20 student volunteers helped
put on the show and picked up empty
beer cups afterward, Darrell said.

“Years ago, charity was done door-
to-door,” Darrell said. “Now, there’s
a better way.”

Darrell said he would buy food at
14 cents a pound from a food bank in
Verona and distribute it to local food
pantries. Because the food bank has a
limited inventory, Darrell said, he
would make monthly trips to Verona
to buy the food. He may also buy food
from W&L suppliers.

The contest, which until last year
benefited the National Multiple Scle-
rosis Society, will give 10 percent of
the proceeds to NMSS this year.

u->See LIP, page 2

speakers,” “he said.

Va. area code to change

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
Phi Staff Writer

As of July 15, 1995, the area code for
Lexington and surrounding regions will
change from 703 to 540.

Presently, the 703 area code also shared
by Fairfax, Arlington, and Prince William
counties, as well as western Virginia. Af-
ter the switch in July, Fairfax, Arlington,
and Prince William counties will keep the
703 code.

The switch is a manifestation of the
growing need for phone numbers. The
increased use of fax machines, cellular
phones, pagers, computers, and Identi Ring
has created a general shortage of phone
numbers in general, and a new area code

seems to be the answer.

“The growing number of local ex-
tensions such as the 570 extension prove
the growing need for phone numbers,”
commented Dana Camper of the Wash-
ington and Lee Telecommunications of-
ﬁce.

However, not informing your par-
ents of the new code isn't an instanta-
neous solution for avoiding their phone
calls.

The phone company will allow a
grace period of a year in which the 540
and the 703 area code will put the call
through. This “Great Schism” of the
area code will be in effect mainly to give
people enough time to change their busi-
ness cards.

JANUARY 27, 1995

P obo y etsy reen

Sex is cool, butnot in Lee Chapel

Sex guru Suzi Landolphi spoke in the D-Hall after protests
caused her talk to be moved from Lee Chapel. A reception in
Fairfax Lounge followed, featuring lemonade, cookies, and
condoms. Story on page 2.

Student leaders, faculty discuss alcohol

BY MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Over a dinner that featured iced tea, 60 well-dressed Washington and Lee
student leaders and faculty members agreed that W&L does have an alcohol
problem, but they disagreed about how to solve it.

Most students thought education would be the best policy, but University
psychologist James Worth said afterward that education is not enough.

“Education is necessary but not sufficient,” he said. “I think we will never have
a change until student self-govemance takes the position that truly dangerous
levels of alcohol consumption should be discouraged on this campus.”

Selected student leaders and faculty attended the dinner sponsored by the
Student Health Committee on Sunday in the University Center. Reporters were
allowed to attend on the condition that they did not directly quote anything said in

the discussion.

“An education program that continues into the fratemity and sorority pledgeships
would be valuable,” said sophomore Executive Committee representative Amy

Gorham afterward.

Junior Kim Gartrell thought alcohol abuse was part of a deeper porblem. She
said some of the reasons given for alcohol use during the dinner dealt with students

feeling uncomfortable not drinking.

“For somebody to feel unaccepted unless they drink says something about they

feel about as a person,” she said.

Worth agreed. He said too many students do not feel free to abstain from alcohol
or to drink at healthier levels. He said students feel pressured to drink to ﬁt into the

W&L social scene.

“My perception is that the campus needs more freedom——not less—in regards
to alcohol consumption,” he said.

Junior Thomas Keman thinks stricter enforcement of Virginia state law that
prohibits underage drinking would help.

“I like the idea of not serving [alcohol to] people under 21,” he said. “It is
certainly not going to be an absolute, but it’s going to help.”

He said stricter enforcement would reduce the availability of alcohol and
provide an economic check. He said if more people had to pay to consume alcohol,
then they would buy less of it.

Keman said more alternative social functions like the acoustic coffeehouses
student activities director Michelle Richardson has organized would help. He said
a student center where students could socialize without the pressures to drink
would reduce alcohol abuse on campus.

Worth also pointed to the lack of social options and the scarcity of role models
for alternative ways of behaving. He said students must free themselves of the
notion that in order to have fun, they must drink.

“We say that our tradition is work hard and play hard,” he said. “The truth is
that we work hard and drink hard here. Hard drinking is risky drinking.”

Dean of the College John Elrod said there needs to be a clearer understanding
of what kind of drinking problem the school has. The issue of alcohol consumption
should extend to the entire student body, said Elrod.

.“I think that one of the most effective thing we can do is to get lots of students
to go through the exercise we went through [Sunday] night,” he said.

Kernan agreed.
“I think [the dinner] is a good beginning,” he said, “but the process needs to be
continued because the problem is not going to be solved by a bunch of student
leaders sitting around and discussing it.”

‘Flesh-eating’ disease strikesRockbridge

From Phi staff reports

Eight cases of a dangerous strain of strep have been
reported in the Shenandoah valley.

The group A streptococcal infection has killed ﬁve
people and hospitalized three in the past six weeks.
Three cases occured in Augusta County, two in
Rockbridge County, one in Rockingham county, and
one from the city of Lexington

Phyllis Parker, wife of W&L professor David
Parker checked into Stonewall Jackson Hospital on
December 31.

“After realizing the severity of her condition, the
doctors here transferred her to the hospital at the
University of Virginia,” said Donna St. Clair, director
of Commmunity Relations at Stonewall Jackson Hos-
pital.

Mrs. Parker has recovered and returned home
Thursday.

“Everyone is delighted to have her back here,” said
her husband. “We’re a family again. She’s home.
That’s a big, big step in the right direction.”

Normally an area the size of the Shenandoah

Valley would average nine cases in 12 months. The
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates
that 10,000 to 15,000 severe infections occur every
year in the United States, causing 2000 to 3000 deaths
a year.

Most Group A Streptococci bacteria are found in
the throat and on the skin. GAS usually results in the
non-lethal strep throat.

Other life-threatening infections caused by GAS
include septicimia, or infection of the blood, cellulitis,
or infection in and underthe skin, necrotizing fasciitis,
or destruction of fat and muscle, and sometimes
streptococcal toxic shock syndrome. These lethal
forms are called “invasive GAS.”

Cases of the disease have risen over the past
ten years.

Strep infections are usually treated with antibiot-
ics. Some forms of invective GAS are resistant to
antibiotics. In these cases, surgery is sometimes
needed.

infective GAS can occur in people with open
wounds or an underlying disease. The disease is
spreadthrough direct contact with infected people or
those who carry the virus. People can carry the virus
without even knowing it.

There is no vaccine to protect against the
disease. For prevention, people with wounds
should keep them clean, and watch for signs of
pain, swelling, or discoloration around the
wound.

The disease can also be spread through dis-
charge from the nose and throat, and by con-
taminated blood, so family members of those
infected should be particularly careful.

Spread of the disease can be reduced by
frequently washing hands, particularly after
coughing or sneezing, and before preparing
food.

GAS became infamous this summer when
“the British tabloids started calling it ‘the flesh-
eating disease,”’ according to Assistant State
Epidemiologist Suzanne Jenkins. “There was
an outbreak of it in Britain, and the media
created the hype.”

Everyone should be careful of their health,
said St. Clair, but the disease should not cause
a panic.

“It’s a cause for concern,” she said, “not a
cause for alarm.” '

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

' -n’~.:, A

U.S. pulling troops out of H

  
    

aiti

President Jean-Bertrand Aristide’s government is increasingly con-
cerned that the United States is pulling its troops out too fast with
inadequate preparation for the imminent turnover to a United Nations
peacekeeping force. About 6,000 troops of the original 20,000 remain in
Haiti. By March 31, the number will drop to 3,000 and the U.S. troops will
make up half of the U.N. forces that will remain in Haiti through Feb. 1996.

Air Force officer and son found

A U.S. Air Force ofﬁcer and his 10-year-old son were rescued in the
mountains of northeastern Turkey. They had been missing for nine days
and disappeared on a ski outing. They took shelter in a cave and ate snow.
Forest rangers reunited them near the town of Bolu in western Turkey,
about 18 miles northeast of the ski resort where they disappeared Jan. 15.

Yeltsin fires official

President Boris Yeltsin ﬁred his privatization chief, who had alarmed
investors home and abroad withplans to renationalize Russian industry.
The chief criticized the director last week for statements he had made. Free
market advocates inside the government celebrated Yeltsin’s decision,
which followed months of a general slide by the president away from
refonn and toward hard-line positions.

The Nation a

._,

Clinton speaks of leaner government

     
 

.

-\

President Clinton spoke about a new social contract committed to civic
responsibility and a leaner—not meaner—government to newly elected
Congressmen in his annual State of the Union address. Although had
admitted to making some mistakes, he said the country has beneﬁted from
his policies. He challenged Republicans to cooperate with him on welfare
reform and to protect Medicare and other programs from cuts to pay for
GOP tax reductions.

Simpson trial begins

Prosecutors opened their case in the O.J. Simpson trial by outlining in
vivid detail what they called “devastating proof” that O.J. is guilty. They
showed graphic color photographs of the bodies of Nicole Brown Simpson
and Ronald L. Goldman. Just as the defense team prepared to respond to
the opening statement, Judge Ito halted the proceedings after learning that
the sole television camera had turned on an alternate juror’s face. Judge Ito
decided to keep cameras in the courtrooms.

N. Carolina killer put to death

A North Carolina man was put to death for raping and killing a
cheerleader, becoming the second white person executed for killing a black
woman since the death penalty was reinstated in 1976. Kermit Smith, Jr.,
37, was convicted in the 1980 rape and murder of Whelette Collins, who
was kidnapped from North Carolina Wesleyan College along with two
other cheerleaders. Authorities say he smashed her head between two
cinder blocks while the other cheerleaders were locked in the trunk.

The State jg:

First execution by lethal injection

Dana Ray Edmonds was executed at the Greensv“'e Correctional
Center, the first man in Virginia history to die by lethal . .'tion. Edmonds,
32, was sentenced to death for murdering John Elliott, a 62-year-old
Danville grocer, during a robbery in 1983. Elliott’s head was smashed with
a brick and stabbed in the neck.

Allen seeks Republican support

Governor Allen sought to rally fellow Republicans around his package
of proposed budget and tax cuts. General Assembly Democrats seem likely
to kill or change the budget. Allen said he will ﬁght the Democrats plans
to kill his budget and tax-cut initiatives over breakfast in the Executive
Mansion.

Sixty percent vote against Carrier

James Madison University faculty hit President Ronald E. Carrier with
a vote of no conﬁdence. The vote was 305-197, more than 60 percent
against Carrier. The vote is considered a statement of opinion to the J MU
Board of Visitors, which released a statement last week supporting him.

The Campus

 

A freshman was kicked out of Graham-Lees dorm on Sunday for having
marijuana in the dorms. Omar Vannoy was charged with possession of
mariguana Thursday

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
Michael Hewlett

The Ring-tum Phi, Janu§._ry 27, lﬂ§

Super Freak

Photo by Betsy Green

A Lambda Chi Alpha grooves to the music at last week’s Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger Washington and Lee
University Lip-Synch competition. Kappa Kappa Gamma won the competition, taking home both first and second prizes.

The event raised about $2500 for area hungry.

Write to the Phi

Cable 2 plans new shows  

BY PETE WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

Unlike the dark, casual coffeehouses
in which they usually play, Brian Boland
and Tommy Esposito sat in the bright
studio of Cable 2 to tape a new televi-
sion show.

“I certainly had the willies,” Esposito
said. “There were two giant cameras
staring at you. You gotta block every-
thing else out and focus on the music
and what you’re saying in the songs.”

“Cable 2 Unplugged,” a new student
production, marks a different direction
for Boland and Esposito and for the
station that created the show. The mu-
sic program premiered in Northen Au-
ditorium on Jan. 21 at 7pm and will
aired on Cable 2 Jan. 23 at 8pm.

Like MTV’s show, the student pro-
gram features acoustic performances in
an informal setting. The group played
originals on the show in addition to
covers of Peter Gabriel and Dave
Matthews. Boland and Esposito also
commented on their songs in segments
that were ﬁlmed outside. Chris Albert,
Frank Olah and Catherine Gartin di-
rected the program.

“It’s a neat way for the people who
are in a band to get some exposure,”
Gartin said. And “for us to get some
experience.”

Since Boland and Esposito met last
Spring, the pair have played at Harbs,
The Raven and Crown, and W&L’s
acoustic coffeehouse.

“I think they have a lot of talent, and
they’re very entertaining,” said
Michelle Richardson, the Student Ac-
tivities Coordinator who has booked
the group for the GHQ.

Their music draws on blues roots,
and their repertoire of original songs is
growing. Unlike the Pearl Jam they
cover, their music does not have social
messages. “ W e ’ r e
not pissed about stuff,” Esposito said.
“We’re just trying to have a good time.”

The increased exposure has not
weakened Esposito’s modesty.
“There’s not a big ego problem in our
group,” Esposito said. “I’m always so
nervous, and [Brian’s] always laid
back.” '

For Cable 2, the production is a
break from its “Rockbridge Report”
and “Dating Game” shows.

“It’s very freestyle and directing it
you get very creative,” Olah said.

For the show, they used a new stu-
dio design and lighting scheme, Olah
said. The set featured stools, pedestals
wrapped in red and blue velvet, and
candles. Albert said it took 10 to ﬁf-
teen hours to prepare the studio. Gartin
said that each song requires about an
hour of editing. They also used ﬁve
cameras instead of the usual two and

employed new camera techniques. But
Albert admits, “the equipment certainly
is not what MTV uses.”

“They’d never done anything like
this and neither had we, so it was a
learning experience for everyone in-
volved,” Albert said.

Esposito agreed.

“When we do a show like this again,
we’ll know what to expect and how to
prepare for it,” Esposito said.

The station plans to introduce other
new shows including “W&L Genes,”
a public affairs show that proﬁles W&L
personalities, “The Hills House of
Style,” “Saturday Afternoon Beer
Party,” and monthly interviews with
the Executive Committee.

“These are all student productions,”
Albert said. “A lot of schools don’t do
stuff like this.”

Boland and Esposito are evolving
quickly. Since the show, they have
changed some of their original songs.
The two have formed a somewhat
louder band with Pat White and hope to
perform at fraternity houses. The pair
will play at the Raven and Crown on
Jan. 27th.

Olah, a junior, said he would like to
produce “Cable 2 Unplugged” in the
future when seniors Albert and Gartin
graduate.

“I think it’s interesting to see
the talent that’s out there and going to
school right next to you,” Olah said.

 

Lip Synch

I->From LIP, page 1

this year.

Darrell had not received serious
complaints about the use of profanity
by emcees John Turner and Greg Lynch
and did not stop the Kappas from jump-
ing onstage during an encore.

Once change planned for next year;
moving the judges‘ table away from a
large speaker and into the beer garden.

Judge Mark Rush said that his ears
were ringing Saturday morning. Rush,
a politics professor, said moving the

judges would have another advantage.
“It’ll make it more enjoyable. The
beer will be more accessible.”

Landolphi urges sexual responsibilty

BY MICHAEL Hswuzrr
Phi Staff Writer

“Why don’t we have a group safer sex experience?”

That’s how Suzi Landolphi opened up her “Hot, Sexy and Safer” program
Thursday night at Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall. Landolphi, author of Hot, Sexy
and Safer, is a nationally known speaker who has taken her one-woman show to
high schools and colleges around the country. She has appeared on talk shows
such as “Donahue,” “Rolonda” and many others. .

Originally, she was scheduled to speak in Lee Chapel. Some students criticized
her speaking there because they thought the topic of her presentation was
inappropriate for Lee Chapel. ~

The speech was sponsored by Panhelenic, Contact, the AIDS Education
Project, the Health Education Committee and the Interfratemity Council.

Talking to a roomful of students, she deﬁned two things: safe sex and safer sex.
Safe sex is when someone has a sexual experiencewith himself (masturbation).

“You cannot give yourself anything but a smile,” she said. Safe sex gives
people the right to like themselves, she told the audience.

Safer sex is when a person has a sexual experience with another human being
and both people are drug and alcohol free, she said.

She said people have been misled by the alcohol industry to believe that alcohol
loosens them up or eliminates their inhibitions. Actually, alcohol simply turns off
the part of the brain that prevents people from engaging in risky behavior, she said.
Landolphi said alcohol makes it easier to risk one’s reputation, dignity and life.

Most bad sexual experiences and rapes occur while people are under the
inﬂuence of alcohol.

But the biggest problem in this country, said Landolphi, is the inability of
people to talk honestly about sex.

“When we talk about sex in this country, we talk around it,” she said.

Women are brought up to not love their private pans while men can be proud
of theirs.

“We bring up half our population to believe they don ’t own their private parts,”
she said.

Women and men need to know they are of equal value, she said. She said what
is needed is not a change in behavior but a change in attitudes. Women grow up
not knowing how their bodies work and are sent out into the world to hook up with
some man, she said.

Young men and women grow up without learning how to properly use a
condom. She said a condom is not 100 percent effective, but it can offer better
protection if used correctly. For example, a man should pull out before orgasm
during intercourse, she said. She demonstrated condom use with a male volun-
teer. The student unrolled the condom, stretching it to show its strenth. A female
student came up and put the condom on his head. Holding his nose, Landolphi,
said sex does not equal intercourse. She said a woman’s orgasm resides in the
c1itoris—not the vagina. Once people realize this, the whole idea of sex is
redeﬁned, she said. She said they realize that people can have an orgasm without
removing their clothes.

In fact, her ﬁrst sexual experience occured when she was 15. It happened in
gym class when she climbed a rope and had an orgasm. She didn’t have,
intercourse until she was 21.

She emphasized that sex does not have to mean intercourse.

“It angers me that we use only one word for sex,” she said.

Sex can be a step process to intercourse, she said. She said the process helps
build a sexual foundation and can make a person feel comfortable with his
sexuality. Landolphi said a woman should not feel obligated to have intercourse
with a man if he gets an erection.

“I’m responsible for my own orgasm,” she said.

The 44-year-old praised the younger generation as one of the best in this
century while warning them that they will face the problems her generation failed
to solve.

“You’ve got to get rid of all the things our generation told you they would get
rid of and copped out,” she said.

She said she doesn’t want this generation to make the same mistakes hers
made.

“I’ll be damned if I allow to let what happened to my generation happen to
another one.”

V‘

 

K

I

I

The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1995

Higher
Learning

Flaps

By KIRK SUSONG
Phi Movie Reviewer

 

Higher Learning — ikrﬁr

John Singleton’s first ﬁlm, the excellent
Boyz ’n’ the Hood, was about the travails of a
young black man growing up in Dos Angeles.
With his latest, Higher Learning, he hopes to
expand his scope to bigger, more broadly rel-
evant issues.

He chooses as his microcosm the fictional
Columbus University, a large, respectable, West
Coast college, perhaps patterned after Stanford
or Berkeley.

At the beginning of the term we meet three
young freshman, Kristin (Kristy Swanson),
Malik (Omar Epps), and Remy (Michael
Rapaport). All three are having difficulty adapt-
ing to the pressures of college life.

Kristy is cute, naive and a bit dazed by
everything. She gets drunk and is ‘date-raped’
by a lecherous fraternity man. (Curiously
enough, it’s not that she minds having sex with
him —just having sex without a condom.) As a
result she ﬂees to the lesbian embrace of the
campus feminists’ group.

Malik is on a partial track scholarship and
has trouble balancing his running with all the
work expected of him by his professors. How-
ever, he gets a beautiful female runner to teach
hi in about comma splices, run-ons, and so forth.
All the while, he must fight the oppressive
forces of racism all around him.

Remy is a geeky engineering student from
Idaho. His roommate, played with delightful
malice by Ice Cube, is a huge, offensive and
inconsiderate sixth-year senior who smokes a

lot of marijuana. Angered by this black man,
Remy quickly becomes caught up in the

‘ skinheads on campus.

I After various encounters between the differ-

~ ent characters, the racial tension explodes in a

horrible climax, as Remy shoots at people at-
tending a peace festival, and eventually kills
himself and Malik’s girlfriend.

Boyz ’n’ the Hood was such a success that
this film was greatly anticipated. However,
despite the high quality of both its acting and
directing, the movie fails as a result of the sad
script.

John Singleton makes the screen expressive
and keeps the film moving along very well; he
also throws in a few clever camera tricks to
make it seem a bit more interesting and arty
(such as Kristy’s two, simultaneous romantic
encounters).

Thank heavens, he also avoids lingering for
too long on any of the typical set-up scenes we
always see in ﬁlms set at large universities,
such as shots of busy cafeterias or green lawns
filled with hackey-sackers.

The cast is quite large, so it is impressive that
there are such solid performances from most of
the characters. Leading the way is Omar Epps,
who does a great job as the resentful, troubled
Malik Williams. Though he adequately handles
all the emotionally charged scenes, he is also
careful and dignified in his appraoch to the
‘normal,’ calm scenes Malik has.

A nice surprise was the amount of screen
time Laurence Fishbume has as the crusty,
mentoring politics professor, Maurice Phipps.
He again does exceptional work, displaying the
talent and versatility which began as a young
soldier in Apocalypse Now and has recently
seen something of a comeback, as with Ike
Turner in What's Love Got to Do with It. This
is yet another distinguished, poised and tightly
acted role for a great actor.

Some of the actors and actresses tend to let
their characters slip into silliness and carica-
ture, but is that their fault or the fault of this
horrcndously bad script?

Written by John Singleton, this script is full
of absurd stereotypes, empty sentimentality,
and dreadfully predictable plot ‘twists.’

The dialogue is bland and pointless, the
characters are embarrassingly fake, and noth-
ing happens which surprises the audience or
even really gives us pause to think.

There are scary black men, wacko white
men, and cute, peaceful feminists.

The fraternity men are a stereotype as far
frmn the truth as Animal House, but presented
with complete seriousness and objectivity.

The whole movie is fake, and transparently
so at that. It is truly a testimony to the actingthat
this film is bearable.

John Singleton goes to didactic extremes to
ask, “Why can’t we all just get along?” So it’s
Curious that Higher Learning made me appre-
ciate even more the sense of community and
intimacy provided by W&L’s homogeneity .
Whatever the whiners might say about our lack
of diversity, the campus faces few of the prob-
lems that poor, fictional Columbus U. encoun-
ters in this film.

Essentially, Higher Learning is not a very
good movie.

It has fine performances from a number of
actors, but the entire script is so stale and
preaclty that the film becomes difficult to watch
seriously.

()r.-cc again, Laurence Fishbume and Ice
Cube have given John Singleton good charac- '
ters, but in this film he has wasted them.’

 

PAGE 3

 

Chargers meet 49ers Sunday

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The question comes up at this time every
year, just before the biggest Sunday of them all.
It’s decision time.

Just how can one have fun and stay inter-
ested for three-and-a-half hours in what
isinevitably a one-sided, unentertaining blow-
out?

In the ‘NFL’s 75th season, the league (and
sponsors) were undoubtedly hoping for a more
marquee match-up than two west coast teams
that don’t match up.

A Pittsburg-Dallas Super Bowl meeting
would certainly have brought minds back to

. those teams’ glory yearsof the seventies, an era

of both dynasty-building and leagueparity.
Yet, fans are left with no voice in determin-
ing Super Sunday ’s attractions and must decide
how to put up with an eleventh straight NFC
triumph. I’d love to predict something else, but

How he amt

it just is not go-
ing to happen
unless Stan
H u m p h ri e s ’
helmut receiver
is hooked up di-

    

the game at the
same time.
TheD—Hallhas
movedtheserving
time for Sunday
up to between

rectly to Joe 5;0()-5;()0 pm
Namath on the Also, the op-
back I1i|'|€- tion to carry-out
HOW *0 one’sfoodbackto
spend the time? the lounge of
Well, f01' whereveryou plan
“I056 Who in to watch the Joe
Years Passed , .. Robbie massacre
have Spent a late Photo Courtesy of SI is being Offered-
°V°"i“8Wi_‘h‘h° San Diego's Junior Seau and San To add S0m6
Evans Dming Francisco's Jerry Rice will be in the holiday ﬂai”°‘h°
Ha11’S big- tli ht S d meal, the D-Hall
Screen h00kUP, SP0 g un 8y’ will be serving
forge! it (No joke!) Stan Humphries’ chicken sticks

However, since our dining services crew is
well aware of what a big game can do to the
appetite, they want you to enjoy your meal and

feat

(Chicken? Stan? Nah!), Deion’s bagel hot dogs
(kosher, no doubt), Steve Young’s taco bar, San
Diego’s vegi sticks, 49ers chips’n’dip and, of

course, JerryRice’s touchdown pretzels.

For Gaines Hall residents looking for a bit of
community, and Charger fans looking for com-
fort, Gaines’ fourth ﬂoor lounge will be having
a Super Bowl party.

Rising sophomores may want to check this
one out.

You’re going to have to get used to it.

By the way, did I mention the D—Hall’s
Pupunu cookies and Junior Seau nachos and
cheese sauce?

Speaking of cheese, Frank’s Pizza (the clos-
est thing to New York this side of Al D ’Amato’s
D.C. office) is offering two large cheese pics
for $10.99. .

Of course, San Fransico might have already
covered the virtual three-touchdown spread
before you ﬁnish the first.

Here’s hoping Stan Humpty can do a Joe
Willy and give us allsomething worth sitting
through. I 

If not, at least we've got hocky to watch
again.

52%

By BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

Let’s face it: all of us want to have
one very special thing. Great sex. As
if that weren’ t complicated enough, in
the modern age, great sex also has to
be safe sex. It might seem impossible
to achieve both, but the book Hot,
Sexy, and Safer by Suzi Landolphi
proves that safe sex can be great sex.

Last night, Landolphi also proved
that she’s an excellent speaker. In this
book, she proves that her honesty and
sense of humor transfer well to print.
Her tone is blunt, frank, and very
funny. Landolphi addresses every
possible aspect of sex and sexuality.

Hot, Sexy, and Safer deals with a
variety of subjects. She discusses
homophobia, masturbation, sexually
transmitted diseases, the proper use of
condoms, and sexism. Landolphi’s
scope is large, but she manages to give
sufficient attention to all of her sub-
jects.

One of the most important issues
that Landolphi tackles is the attitude
that women have toward their own
sexuality. She writes, “We women
need to like our private parts more.
We need to be aware we were brought
up to dislike our own bodies. That we

let others use our private parts before ‘

we do. That we allow sexist beliefs to
govern our sexuality and sense of self
worth...Women won’t make better
choices about sexuality until they be-
lieve they own their own private parts.”
Landolphi explains that when women
consider their bodies to be “beautiful
and unique,” they will recognize that

“we deserve orgasms.” Sex wil be
better for both women and men.
Landolphi’s crusade to destroy the
myth of the vaginal orgasm deserves
the attention of both sexes.

To Suzi Landolphi, safer sex also
means better communication between
sex partners. She emphasizes alterna-
tives to intercourse so that couples will
know each other better. “Two human
beings who give each other physical
pleasure is sex. In my book, sex and
sexual intercourse are not synony-
mous.” According to Landolphi, the
best tum-on is “honesty and trust.”
Sobriety is vital to safe sex—as Hot,
Sexy, and Safer explains, “Four hours
of getting bombed with someone does
not create the basis of an honest, trust-
ing relationship. The only thing you’ll
have in common the next day is a
headache.” Landolphi also emphasizes
all of the possible problems that could
be associated with sexual intercourse,
from “Hair get[ing] pulled or caught
on something, “ to the risk of preg-
nancy or disease. In

treat it?” She then explains what sexual
activities are riskiest and what pre-
cautions should be taken. The proper
use of condoms is explained. The STD
and safe sex chapters could be te-
dious, but Landolphi is never preachyj
She gives the information that is
needed in the simplest way possible.

Maybe you feel like you know all
there is to know about sex. Maybe
you’re in a long-term, monogamous
relationship. Maybe you simply can’t
see yourself sitting down and reading
a book with a title like Hot, Sexy, and
Safer. If this is your attitude, you are
missing out. Who couldn’t stand to
have better sex? Who doesn’t need to
learn more about their sexuality? I
would recommend Suzi Landolphi’s
book to anyone. I read it and I want my
children to read it some day so that
they will have healthy, and, yes, hot,
sexy, and safe attitudes about sex.
Read Suzi Landolphi’s book. You’ll
laugh, you’ll cry, it will change your
life.

short, sex is a very
difficult thing to do
well. It is easier if
done with someone
you care about.
Hot, Sexy, and
Safer includes de-
tailed information
about sexually trans-
mitted diseases. For
each STD,
Landolphi lists
“What is it?” “What
are the symptoms?”
“How do you treat
it?” and what hap-
pens “If you don’t

 

./-"”tlI"ll|\‘\\\_ I

ublicty Photo

 
 

c°VV\»;.V\g
‘§.t..-V...-t, :3
O 1—2¢V\F¢$t

W4, '4t1u;r|lt\\\\‘\~ \
"'r§"'4v.rtttvuIM“«r .t~t
V.‘u“"ll[fI|.\|\‘l|'."‘r .
,’ .‘i‘¢“'ﬁ\‘I9'

Sophomore Denis Riva plays Mrs.
Hardcastle's (Phaedra Cianciulli '96)
oafish son in She Stoops To Conquer.

Fatheralang explores thesearch for father figures

historical father.

By MICHARL HEwLE'1'r
Phi Staff Writer

In many ways, human beings search for

father ﬁgures, whether they are biological or _

heavenly.
John Edgar Wideman searches for his fa-
ther on the backrouds of his past.
Why are fathers so important? What role do
they play in society?
Widemanattcmpts to answer these ques-
tions in his new ‘book, Fatheralong: Medita-

_ tions on Fathers and Sons, Race and Society.

Wideman travels to South Carolina to improve
their relationship. I

In his book, Wideman tries to understand his
father’s life and way of thinking. Along the
roads between Philadelphia and South Caro-
lina, he takes the reader into his painful family
history.

In a flashback to his hometown, he remem-
bers how he searched for his father.

“If I sensed I might run into my father, over
there in the disreputable, darker streets of
Homewood, then crossing Hamilton must have
been a way of seeking him.

"Not his person, but all the power and privi-
lege I associated with his person.”

In a larger sense, Wideman writes that all
men are searching for a physical, spiritual, or

Religious people search for their Heavenly
father.

Even authors such as James Baldwin sought
a literary father.

Some African American men seek fathers
like Nelson Mandela, Mao Tse-tung, Ghandi,
and Karl Marx from other continents.

Stylistically, Wideman, like William
Faulkner, uses stream of consciousness to weave
the many voices from his past.

His writing is lyrical and ﬁerce and original.

Never have I read a writer who expressed
his feelings so honestly and intelligently and
powerfully.

“A motherf*"er, ain’t it.

"This Daddy search. booking under every

brick orrock orcoal pile and me signifying such
a search is the very brick—and-rock foundation
of various political philosophies, survival strat-
egies from integration to separation to bum-
baby-bum incineration to self—annihilation and
starting all over again." _

"Maybe the search for fathers is finally only
a trope, a ropa-dope trope containing enough
rope to hang you up terminally, you black
bastard.”

I hungrily read every word, discovering a.

new insight or a vivid image.

I agree with Village Voice writer Nelson
George that Wideman is one of the most excit-
ing, unrecognized writers out there.

Now that l’ve read his book, l’ve discovered
all the fathers that I never knew I had.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, Janaury 27, 1995

W&LIFE

LlFE llxi Jag; *
 égogwmle

 
    
     
     

    

 

 

      
 
    
    

   
 

 

 

   
 
    
 

 

     
 

   

 

 

    
  
 
  
  

 
   
   
 
   

   
  
   

      
   
   

 
     
      
    
     
    
    
    
   
       
 

 

    
      
   

b J k  R A In one o? +50. mos+ obscene. eFFo«+:§
'1' r i 1' ’ ‘9
V 3° °“ma"  °° "~"M.3'°°**- :e\:~.:::l:“:::::.f “:i::‘;:::t.°:.:.:, 5». *
Ago HSTLQSS Send. Q“-‘+v'S‘mP‘°ng m'mui'aS of in’? ni?3(‘¥S "SiMP$‘on§“ If
":'L‘?E\"‘%:;”"“" Read new Messages. gpisoaé perv. deal: +o €xpr'QSS3n3 3
90‘ var Ad ; - xi ml
. _ *1 cl Se 0 _ In I 59 -n
 rmsre 'ese.+«+m. or as Qepvblican '§
. par'i'\7 ever cregied in, E ’
 ‘ :’''T a %Iv\ocf*:Vl'cfspir\ 3
’~ s cc 0/‘. 5
' _v_, ‘ | r'\
(ApTAlN$ Lo(.~,,. Ii
AN ALIEN IJFE ?
FoRM"THR€P3PN5m , X \ \ 2
l . I‘
‘ ~l
_ ‘ . You have no clue how riled uplqml Tkere. is noﬂinq q,.,.,g;,\9‘,\°$Q+;/t’ Degpift. +ke besf 9#oF*§ oF +\\e, 3
bx}?  compo/\'\G$ H~q*€ponso/gd, lnqﬁimpifag +0 Smear ﬁt Q2p.,l.l;(n-s Greening; 04‘ ‘Hm world (not ~l-he losuf 4‘
+\xe_ pile o+‘ garbage, ins‘? nigki" misin‘ p¢r*\) \.;.’-H-l -we dd-uql and vQr\’ w\..o g.,Pporl- ‘HnQm)+c slnncler +I.p;r g
begeﬁiqg a he-.+ _+k-‘s week. Virl-3 set-.'ovS grime; lmoan +o kam. been OPpcn€'V’i‘S even, chance +4.2», get, '3
/ [ding Ccombagi‘ ‘W2 Gfoevﬁcxg I\Q¢c\ commiiieoi B-1 -the Demon-a*l'¢_ Rviy ‘Hie-j're Lgusi’ 'FiV€ Sin0P+ WQ€\<S at-M‘1 3-, ~,
. _ p  — / | +0 be (°1\P(°¢\+QA bx, ‘\‘\-‘ﬁr ?°‘n'9\, ‘From ‘Find iﬁg OJ‘ "ﬁ\€ HGFA wag 'i"NiT
 ’;ﬁ%9§l%"bU/nfldlrecif-iaservices Inc )’ i i i i i i i °"‘°‘ Si‘? erg. Pe°P“" “'3 “""° "'° +“°" "°‘P'
‘ ‘i-5:‘ ' Al|Righls Reserved. ‘ ’ lO W [
\\ \ ‘
\ \
. \ L
(HIP PROBLEM HERE,
g PHIL... V03" id’ ‘W9 S\€n‘Li¢§’€, iensi Eﬂihi I woo\d 36' Svdn a kxlk r igki‘ abmrf
E; €i€m&n‘_’$ 0'? Jr‘-it’. ‘QR’ V_°"\j 3" now in $0€i Groea-‘n3 mi-.‘+l.\; i-\ ’
E +e\€\h'§t°~\ <36 at-’°t‘1 °~"““§ ‘V-"¢*9'*‘ PAM as kedcngiﬂzi B», an sedrio» o llic
W; -Hue Qepoblicqu Pofig «A -1‘: new-bear. '|v\+€S‘i’i4s£ -From ghee. A-l -He ms, 1 peg,
§§ Miami-.9 on ou «Ml we vi.-J-19$ you lead 1:». kopzng For a slooaoooow go guoqbguq
3; re preset»-r g wlal not go unancuaered. P°;,,f\,\ dea+L, via some hon-’.\°\e_ QEFQESHW 7
E; illness o+‘ his newovi S‘1d'QN\,0'Q '
3‘; +\m+ al\oxJ§ lame an
1‘ " re-nu‘... 4-uuu’ auuale
uyd-i\ his V9:-1las‘i
I ' inren+L.
5 r
‘ / 
¢E‘$2:".;""e ’
”" DAVE
1-+ IS eieeeamu Mam says E _ _
KATRILLIOM I9 9 by David Miller
'rl-Ir. el66EST 5
Wmeelz, SW ‘ wt
sue‘; Jam’. ‘f
M
.1‘
5
S
ﬂ
£1 5 ISN'T IT . fl 5
{ -2 £23 HEY, BuooY, WE'RE A _ nkomc? were
3 lib couw You SPARE "‘TT‘—E VOW” °N ,_ 2’\9'<‘NCv F05
ASHE BKDGECT “A H“ “A “A “A G “ QOME CHANGE ?_l OUR LUCK.’ HANGE Now-
Meee I am 3 f, 4
Tl-\l:J\< oi:--Auo HA HA HA HA HA ; (
1‘V\ NOTJok".)'-— \-‘Q HA \-\A “A 9 3,
THE. BIGGEST \-XA HA HA HA 2  . "
Nuneuus... 9 . “A \—\A;l\A HA HA 5 1 ‘K - 1 1.,  
\.\F\ \'\q‘ \'\°\H‘":\A _'a'J’3I.‘1.l"-‘Y -“ins xx w-':rI. la_..\l4I:._'-'i .\  e  1" v ~ 71». 
“A .,.; 1.—-_a V2‘ -..,...‘J‘_ .... . .~ 3'_‘ ., *,- 
\8\9“§AV H4 9 ‘_ 4- / \\ 
Hg H4 6'9 :  E
.% _% M “*1 x 5 2 VI
H5 I _ 
Tueeés earn; wEu.,n"s MORE ‘vs BMW
BE A NUMBEQ OF AN’ lVEAT|'U.W ~ Lrke 1-He
Bleeeemau Ixwtmgee. u-9 uumgga 3
M
iiisr te<pE$? 0” ‘TS SW8’ ’\
W€\—L,THEO.E Gerrmc, el(,6c2_
IS. IT'S (AHEO
lh)F|I~)'T‘1. T
l:§._“$‘;“ A CLA§9lC EXAMPLE OF
Looxuuce? \ owe HAND NOT KN0WlN&
% % \\ WHAT we omen is ,
ARE ‘sou TELLN’ gg
°12::2*arza;*:’ i 
BKIGEST BlGGEST -ag
nomaez? W  ,
° e E5
as
‘ $3
mm :1 -as 9
j ,
{ M. Q Q Q _

  

‘SUPER BOWL

__     
enema &. sums '

Kelly’s Corner

On Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington

“T he tradition continues”

Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea.,
delicious BBQ sandwiches $1.39
7-Up, A&W root beer, RC, cream soda-
3 cans / $1.00
Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .069/gal.

   
 
 
   
  

Unleaded Plus - $1.129/gal. _ I . V “
Nam, Ugh, 2 large cheese plzzas - $10.99 5
$“'2°i’.},2..',’_ai‘§,'.§I$$.§'_Z§’,’°“s° Hot and Cold Subs, Calzones. .

 A CHECK FOR OUR DAILY PRICES

cw As Always, We Provide The Best PICK UP OR DELIVERY "9
giiiiniiinit iii ijn in

onepday only u
511 E. Nelson St. 463-7575

Service For The W&L Community

Open 7 Days 463-5452 Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

   

  

   

 

Single Black and White : Do You Want VISA & Masterca rd Credit Cards? arcmpus cum. Box 220515. HoLLvwooD. FL 33022 ' 3\
I I
Newspaper Seeks creative Now you can have  of the most recognized and’ ' i I 5  - '
1nd1V1dua1S for 3 meaningful accepted credit cards In the world..Vlsa0 and Ma.sIcICard0 I  . "'3mV'5A°/M55"‘3R°‘RD° C'‘’‘"‘ I
working relationship. CR4" Cards»-"In Y0"? mm-" EVEN ,"’ YOU ARE ”5‘"''" ' (hrdsvapptovcd Immediately. 100% GUARANTEED! I
TURN R
includelate °“'3°v'."sZ1'Z‘.X'i.‘Z’§.'i".c.....’i‘.?.'i°..“§I'. 33$ El l I '
Thursday nights, black deserve and need for—-: lD—BOOKS—I)l-ZPARTMI-g;T . NAME .
<=°ffee’suziLand°1vhi» mm::eR:.::.**i22';::~T.::a:,"Ru:.": - -
imported been and 100g HO,TELS—MOTELS—GAS-CAR RI-ZNTALS— ' ADDRESS ' _
walks in the country, Ready RI’-:PAlRS—AND TO BUIID voun cm-zon RATING! : CITY STATE _ ZIP :
to commit to a life of love gu PHONE 353::
and happiness. Contact the o\I5‘”“‘ ﬁg "0 tum dams! ' : - :
Rm _tum Phi at 462_4060 s‘t‘gL No credit checks . SIGNATURE
g ’ “spllﬂﬁgu “"5 "0 $€C|"'itY d€DOSit! ' worn: Maslaclrd Is a nzglstr.-ltd trademark cl’ Masmun: International. Inc. ' y
462-4059, or come see us in guA|;"°,¢1 9’ S I Visa ls . lcglslerul Indcnnrk 0! VISA us; Inc. and VISA lnltrmuonal I
the University Center‘ YOUR CREDl‘[i:N:A;:: flit“:-gpgiiritiggi : :

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, Janaury 27, 1995

ADVERTISEMENT

'1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

.I

HOW TO KEEP PEOPLE’S
HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY.

6 Carry only enough cash to last the day.
Anyone who tries to borrow your last ﬁve spot
isn't a friend, anyway.

6 Label your spare-change jar “beetle farm.”
Then, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled
“spare change.”

6 Mark up every space on checks.
Don't leave room for someone to ﬁll in their
name and extra zeros.

6 Keep your wallet in your front pocket.
lt discourages pickpockets. So does wearing
really tight pants.

3 Put your picture on your credit card.
A Citibank Photocard is tough for anyone else
to use, unless they look just like you.

WE'RE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU.“
To apply, call |—800—ClTlBANK.

  

© l99S Citibank (South Dakota). N.A.

PAGE 5

 

I I I:I-Iliiﬁ-IIIICIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

PAGE 6

   
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
  
     

over another’s head.

Far right, a Kappa Alpha Theta pledge
acts out, “The Homecoming Queen’s

Got a Gun.”

Below, a Phi Delta Theta pledge croons
to the delight of the female audience to

“Strokin’.”

 

Right, a Sigma Phi Epsilon pledge ﬂips

.--.-.-.-.-.:.
' 3:4/ezt 31¢! 5zatc{4¢

at

Sa1erno’s
Subs & Pizza Deli

WFlSh]

  



The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1995 ,

NGTON
FIND Lee

Fill photos by Betsy Green

 

.' GIVE US TIME TO REPAY
YOUR LOAN.

After just three years in
the Army, your college loan
could be a thing of the past.

Under the Army’s Loan
Repayment program, each
year you serve on active duty

   

t
I

Rt. 11 North

 
 
   

BROUGHT TO
YOU BY
TWO BEERS
AND SOME
OOLO
MEOIOINE.

Alcohol and medicine can affect your
balance, coordination, and vision.
Alter drinking or taking medication,

<lon't ride. That's the best
Jiresgriiition for your safety. 

    non»: at 
and watch the gaps

 0 Pizza 0
K  O 0 Subs 0
r I 0 Wide Screen TV 0

I V,’ Open 12 noon til 10p.m.!

“"_"”‘”““"“'“““"“.-.- .-.-.-.-.-.-.-..-.-.-.-I

IEA H 1

Positions available monthly. BA

or BS required. $ 1 8,000 — 24,000

yr. Accom. provided, other ben-
fits. Send resume, copy of di-

loma and copy of passport to:

.0. Box 8 Yang Chun Gu, Seou
Korea TEL: 011-822-242-562

Bok J i Corporation, Yang Chugl

AX: 011-822-242-4329.

reduces your indebtedness by
one—third or $1,500, whichever
amount is greater, up to a

‘ $55,000 limit.

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans
and certain other federally insured loans which are not
in default.

And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army
will give you. Get the whole story from your Army

0 463-2166
ARMY‘. BE ALL YOU CAN BEE?

  

  

'u'u'-'u'n"u'-'-'n'u'-'u'u'u"-'-

463-5757

The Ring-tum Phi: Oh what a
feehngl

 

[M//W

for FANCY DRESS T-Shirts

with up to 5 colors between 2 locations

FRATERNITY & SORORITY
Sports Wear Party Favors
Stadium Cups

Come by and see us at:

Dondero, Incorporated

17- 1/2 South Randolph Street
Lexington, Virginia

463-26 18

We’ve Made It Easier For The Class Of ’95 To Drive The Class Of ’95.

THE ALL NEW YOTA TERCEL

Dual Air
Bags

More Power

More Safety
Features

 

Side Door
Impact Beams

Better Gas
Mileage

AND THEITOYO LEEADPROGRAM.

There’s no better way to enter the work force than behind the wheel of the all-new, always dependable Toyota Tercel. .
And it’s easy with Toyota’s special college graduate program... you get Toyota’s premier rate*, no down payment, no payments for 90 days“,
and a year of free roadside assistance. Just see your participating Toyota dealer for all the details.

WE’RE MAKING IT EASIER FOR COLLEGE GRADS.

' COLLEGE GRADUATE PROGRAM FINANCED THROUGH TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATIONS 60 MONTH PREMIER RATE. " TOTAL FINANCED CANNOT EXCEED MSRP PLUS OPTIONS. TAX
AND LICENSE FEES. FINANCING AVAILABLE WITH APPROVED CREDIT THROUGH TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT CORPORATION. DEFERRED FINANCE CHARGES ACCRUE FROM THE CONTRACT DATE.

SEE PARTICIPATING DEALER FOR DETAILS.

@ TOYOTA

I Love VVhat You Do For Me

11

X

 

» nu

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1995 PAGE 7

 

 

5YNCh

 
   

 

:%- "

To the left, a pledge from Kappa
Alpha Theta grooves to “I Will
Survive.”

Above, “The Shady Ladies” strut
their stuff in their act, “Creep.”
The contest raised about $2,500,
which will be donated to local
food pantries. Students Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger raised
the money by charging a $30
entry fee for each act and a four-
dollar admission fee for
spectators. Traditionally, the
event has also raised funds by
selling video composites of the
acts after the completion of the
event.

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   

Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger hosted Washington and Lee’s 1995 Annual ’
Lip-Synch contest Jan. 20. Above, a Sigma Phi Epsilon pledge rocks to “Run DMSpe.”
Women from Kappa Kappa Gamma won the contest, $150 and four Fancy Dress
tickets with their acts, New Kids on the Block’s “Step by Step,” and Aretha
Franklin’s “Respect.” ‘ 1“-‘iii

Are you looking for an exciting and rewarding summer job?

 

E  E ThehA Bar A Guest Ranch is on 140,000fprivate acres of p
. , , , , 0 sout ernW omin ,surroundedb national orest and '1d -
:  m 2£“{““4’ée4 : ness area. We haxi openings in all areas of guest servivclesflf "““°"““‘E 3T°*‘E5 5'
:  ma  : you are available from approximately June 1 to early or late -
: : September, we would like to talk with you about the possibility Hardware’ Paint’ and Related Items
0 o of working with us this summer. The manager, Bob Howe, will
I /95. St. 3 b't " Fb 1-T ' ' T
- zmw - .i§.‘§,Z§§Lel;"§i3E§Z"§§§§..‘isiﬁiiym BfI,$."§1’2§ff Open Mon - Sat 830 am - 6 pm Sm 1—5 pm-
: 463-2742 : can (303)670_1323. E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186
Wanted!!! Individuals, Student Or anizations and
Small Groups to Promote SPRIN BREAK ’95
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
INTER-CANIPUS PROGRAMS
1-800-327-6013
— Check out
| g 5 r ‘ ‘ this teehg ting
    t   weird s|$nng
_ bo;:. ou
102 W. Washington St. came,
I « imagine how
h d is ' f
'W&L CAMPUS BY DAVID GET ‘R€ﬂ®”Lj FOR 
A 0 out wags to
- ‘ h
KEELI NG - S/N LIMITED EDITION F«ﬂ1\.iC‘g ®’R€eS§ “‘w;::* 2:39
know what
would make
° W&L CAM PUS CoI=>i=>ER- - Tuxedos for Rent . in whose
- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos For Sale thing a Ylot
- easier? ou..
PLATE RESTRI KE HAN D'COLORED ' Fancy Cummerbund & T16 Sets We would
7 .
— Flasks not just sag
. L that. Peallg.
LJ .  B ROC KE B RC U G H ' Also - Winter Clearance Sale in Progress he‘::dh<;::m
1 things about
| 8 6 8 5 I G N E D C H EC K VISA MASTERSARD STUDENT CHARGE 90,, com,
' 463-5383 work for us.

‘RE. LEE SIGNATURE ON
W&L LETFERHEAD

Summer Jobs

at Washington and Lee

-Counselors for Summer Scholars
June 28 - July 29, 1995

Summer Scholars is a four—week academic program for 100 rising
high school seniors. Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10
students in Graham—Lees dormitorq and plan evening and weekend '
activities. Ten positions are available. Application deadline,
F ebruarg 28, 1995.

-Special Pro ams Resident Assistants
June 2 — August 31, 1995

The Office of Special Programs emploqs 4 W&L students to serve as host/
hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities management
and housekeeping, receptions, and transportation.

Application Deadline, March 17, 1995.

For further information, please Contact the Office of Special Programs,
Howard House, 463-8723

'W&L COLONNADE, PEN/INK
BY D. Bi_Ac:KwEi_i_

i”iiti"”imniuis
  an HRH

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

 

    

PAGE 8

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Think about impacts of  
Winter Rush

Last night, the IFC conducted an open forum between fraternity
members and facultymembers to address the problems surrounding
the fraternity rush process.

Each side presented its point of view and arguments for the system
it thought was the least evil. The faculty, some of whom have been
at W&L for twenty-plus years, enlightened the students as to the
history of changes that the rush process has undergone over the years.
As a student and fraternity member, this was helpful because it
revealed the reasons some things were tried and were scrapped and
perhaps why the faculty is concerned at all with the fraternity rush
system (and why they are interfering in our student autonomy).

There were a number of reasons the faculty members gave as
reasons for change, whether to winter rush or pre-school rush or just
something else.

As one might expect, their primary concern was their students’
academics and the fact that we should not have to compete too much
with rush. They obviously want what is best for the academic life of
every student (on both sides of the rush process): freshman, sopho-
more, junior and senior. But many of their reasons ended in similarity
at that. It seemed as though each member of the faculty had a different
anecdote pointing to a fault with the rush system or the IFC’s
handling of its autonomy. With each story of a troubled freshman
year experience or sophomores in grade trouble because of rush
commitments, the problem seemed to have its root in that the
student’s fraternity came before his academics. Additional factors
seemed to include historically ineffective guidance of freshmen
during their transitional fall term and basically too much “necessary”
partying when students should be studying or, at least, not hurting
themselves.

From this standpoint, winter rush loses and a shorter pre-fall term
rush would solve the problem.

Other aspects then came into the equation of rush, which compli-
cated the discussion a little. The strongest argument for a winter rush
— better bonding among the freshmen — is a valid concern.
However, it was brought up that the freshmen do not splinter into
fraternity groups until they are split physically when they become
sophomores.

This reasoning, however, is outweighed by the starker reality that
if winter rush was implemented, it would last all fall term whether
contact rules are enforced or not. Perhaps in a perfect world, where
all alumni gave money and all W&L students had 4.0 GPAs, winter
rush could work, but sadly, the reality cannot physically support this
type of system.

In support of winter rush, a large part of the argument is the
comparison of fraternity winter rush systems at other schools (and
even the sorority rush system here) to W&'L’s, which is largely like
comparing apples to oranges (with the exception maybe of Hampden-
Sydney).

The other schools do not have a Greek system which is the
principle social activity, and since freshmen do not have false
identification to go to the Palms, etc. as with other larger universities,
they will want some social outlet (way to drink), which is the perfect
dirty rush tool.

What we should look at is improving communication between the
freshmen and the IFC and the hill (including spelling out in big letters
that pledgeship is deferred until winter term and that they should
study)! in their free time during rush — not get behind and catch up
later .

This year’s rush probably worked better than any of the three
different rushes of which I have been a part. It was short and to the
point. Besides that, it interfered as little as possible with school as
most of the final week of rush was closed contact, and the week
previous to that was the ﬁrst week of classes and principally closed
contact. Ideally the party/open contact aspect of rush should be out
of the way as quickly as possible while there are no conﬂicting
academics.

Quote of the Week...

“What’s with the ﬂak jacket? Where does this guy
think he is, El Salvador?”

4ohnnyLampert, comedian, keeping the GHQ
crowd wildly entertained as he discussed a
certain male photographer of a campus news-
paper

'1

@112 ‘ﬂing-mm iﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bunny Wong

Assistant Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Dan Odenwald

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity. 1

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1995 1‘

K“

Great Britain highest civilization

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 
 

h

This is Part Three in a series on the
many virtues of Western Civilization.

And so the end has finally come.
Now I have only to complete the circle
— to lay down the deﬁnitive vindica-
tion of the time and place we honor
with the distinction of Highest Civili-
zation: 19th-century Britain.

The reasons for this choice are var-

ied, and I effort to sup-
would be the ply brightand
first to admit C C slowstudents
thatprejudice , withthesame
and intuition When our interests are generalized‘
gig“ hag: threatened by events in 'c°aVt$n°fs°f1‘;:
ever-so-tiny the  World; we jcidedly un-
role inmyde- rarely think twice about civilized, as
cision, but I o well asdisas-
am nonethe- uslng_whatever means trousinitsef-
lessconﬁdent we think necessary t0 re- fects. In this
‘hm my P°S" establish the Pax Ameri- '°SP°°‘’ 3‘
tion can and . least, we can
will be ad- cana wherever it may be feelconﬁdent
equately ex- threatened. thatwhatever
plamed be'   defects the
low. Know- British edu-
ingasldothat cational sys-

my readership prizes intellectual con-
sistency, I will try to conﬁne my argu-
ments to the three-tiered model of civi-
lization I articulated in Part One.
Learning is the most ambiguous of
the three categories of civilization
where British primacy is concerned;
that is, it is by no means obvious, even
to me, that Great Britain, in the 19th

century or any other, has possessed a
decided and obvious advantage in terms
of its educational and scholastic ad-
vancement. Partisans of French, Ger-
man, American, or Italian intellectual
achievements, for example, might have
an equally strong case. Nevertheless,
one thing is clear: the importance of
hierarchy and class divisions, which
we mentioned in Part Two, has over-
tones in the sphere of learning that
necessarily disqualify the contempo-
rary American educational system from
any reasonable claim to high achieve-
ment. Today’s American system, and
the systems of all too many other na-
tions, are based on the same facile
notions of human equality we criti-
cized so justly two weeks ago. Any

tem may have had in the 19th-century,
egalitarianism was not one of them.
Insofar as charity is concerned, I
will remind the reader of Joseph
Chamberlain’s conﬁdent assertion that
Imperial Britain was “the greatest force
for good the world has ever seen”.
Times have changed since Chamber-
lain put forward this analytical gem, of

course. The United States, because of
its unique contributions during both
World Wars and because of its leader-
ship in the anti-Communist crusade of
the Cold War, can now lay, I think,
very plausible claim to the title of
history’s most benevolent power. In
one crucial respect, however, Britain’s
role as a Great Power was played with
greater “charity”. Here I speak of co-
lonialism. I realize it may be unpopu-
lar these days to speak of colonialism
in anything like a positive light, but this
prejudice rests on a fallacy that is all
too easy to expose: that colonialism is
a thing of the past — that we enlight-
ened Americans have no part in it to-
day. This is, of course, nonsense; even
now the United States and the other
Western powers consciously maintain
a de facto control over events in virtu-
ally every comer of the globe. When
our interests are threatened by events
in the Third World, we rarely think
twice about using whatever means we
think necessary to re-establish the Pax
Americana wherever it may be threat-
ened. The crucial differenceis that
British imperialism admitted it’s own
existence —— a proper tribute to intel-
lectual honesty — and the British were
more willing to admit that with power,
fonnalized or not, comes responsibil-
ity. British imperialism was a none-
too unsuccessful exercise in noblesse
oblige. Some may quibble, but that is
my view.

lastly, I must address the role played
by order in human civilization. The
social and political order current in
Britain during the 19th-century was, to
my discriminating eye, very nearly
perfect. Socially, Britain had the ben-
efit of a ‘well-defined and healthy
class system.

Egalitarian and Socialist agitation
did not become a major factor in Brit-

ish politics until the turn of the century.
What is more, while Britain possessed
just the kind of hierarchical social struc-
ture that I favored in Part Two, hers
was.not so rigid as to prevent worthy
individuals from rising above the cir-
cumstances of their birth. Men like
David Lloyd George and Alfred Milner
were able to rise from the low end of
British society to become two of its
leading lights, albeit at the close of the
period in question. In short, individual
progress was possible, but the social
order was nonetheless held intact.

Politically, Britain was still pos-
sessed of that most ingenious and prac-
tical of all governmental systems: the
mixed constitution. Monarchy, aris-
tocracy, and democracy each occupied
a central place in the British system
(though by this time the actual power
of the Monarch had become danger-
ously inadequate).

The House of Lords continued to
act as a respected and powerful compo-
nent of the British government, articu-
lating the legitimate concerns of that
country’s historic ruling and landed
classes. The House of Commons,
elected throughout most of the century
by a small minority of Englishmen,
proved eminently capable of govern-
ing both Britain and the Empire effi-
ciently, prudently, and (within limits)
magnanimously.

My defense of the primacy of Brit-
ish civilization must end here. I could
speak at length about British achieve-
ments, or about British decline for that
matter, but that will have to be for
another day. Let me only add that I
hope any of my readers who disagree
with my views on this most important
of subjects will avail himself of the
opportunity to respond. As always,
the battlefield of ideas awaits’ a
brave recruit...

DNC must be rebuilt from grassroots up

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

 

As some of you may know, the Democratic Na-
tional Committee has just appointed Christopher
Dodd, a Connecticut Senator, as General Chair of the
DNC, and Don Fowler of South Carolina as National
Chairman. This demonstrates a deﬁnite change in the
orientation. and focus of the DNC. The past chair,
David Wilhelm, did not have the necessary personal-
ity to be an effective chairman. Both Dodd and
Fowler are at home in the company of politicians.
This is an important asset in managing the various
factions and egos within the Democratic party. Dodd,
as a Senator, is used to both building coalitions and
dealing with politicians as individuals. Fowler, a
veteran of South Carolina, is versed in the changing

* dynamics of the South. Both of these qualities are

necessary for the Democrats not to be totally wiped
out of the picture in 1996. An article deﬁned him as
a ‘visceral’ Democrat. One definitions of visceral is
“proceeding from instinctive rather than intellectual
motivation.” I can hear the groan now; Democrats
acting from the heart and soul instead of from the
brain is precisely what got this country into trouble.

For me visceral doe_sn’t ‘imply the big-hearted
liberals, but the Democrats who are emotionally tied
into the country as a whole. They weren ’t Democrats
because that is the party they could win the election
with. They were Democrats because that is the party

they felt a connection to. As a Democrat, I can totally
understand this sentiment. There is great appeal for
me to abandon the Democratic party for the Green
party, whose speciﬁc policies and goals are more in
line with my ideals. A larger part of me, however, is
attached to the Democratic party. My mother’s family
has always voted Democratic. My

mother will not vote for a Repub-

them, becoming professional politicians. Though
the idea of politicians being controlled solely by the
special interests is misinformed, it is the perception
not the truth that often matters. Dodd’s desire to take
the party back to the grassroots is even a better move
under these circumstances.

Personally, I would like to see
the Democrats articulate some

lican. If she doesn’t approve of
the Democrat, she votes for the

(C

positive goals. The Republicans
have taken over the conversa-

independent. I’m not quiteasada- Tlzere is grea£ap' tion, and are dominating it with
mant about this; I voted for a ea or me toa an- their Contract and their goals for
Republican in last year’s Florida $0" tfyle Democratic the future. Democrats are left
Senate race. There is also a senti- responding to the Republicans,
mental tie to the great traditions party f0?‘ the Green and appear as obstructionists

of the Democratic party, and a
spark of hope that the party can
now return to it’s roots of being
the people’s party, instead as the
party of big government.

Dodd is aware of this need to
communicate with the people. In
an interview shortly after his
nomination he stated his desire to rebuild the party
from the grassroots up. Another Democrat stated it
even better. Senator Barbara Mikulski, in an editorial
in the Washington Post said, “Democrats must figure
out what works. We must be advocates for people and
not automatically defend every government program.”

Another thing that Democrats must realize is that
people are alienated when they think politicians are
basing their actions purely on the calculation of their
re-election chances. Disgust with government origi-
nates from the idea that politicians never descend
from Washington to see what the rest of the country
wants. They stay in DC and let the lobbyists inform

party, whose spe-
cific policies and
goals are more in
line with my ideals.

since on many occasions they
don’t have a cohesive alternative
to offer.

When asked what the Demo-
cratic party stands for, I often
respond with what I wish it would
stand for, since what it stands for
is not really known. I hope that"
President Clinton articulates some goals for the
Democrats. He has two more years during which he
will the single most powerful person in America. It
is imperative that those two years count. There has
often been a relunctance to use the veto because it is
perceived negatively. Clinton needs to use the veto
to stop legislation which goes against the stated
goals of the Democrats. In doing so, however, he

must provide a justification and suggestions so the .

veto does not take on the airt of a partisan weapon.
Clinton’s most important role is to take control of
the debate and reassert himself as chair of the
Democratic party.

 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1995

PAGE9

Presidential Search, look no further

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

I’ve been doing a lot of thinking
lately about that whole search for a
new President of Washington and Lee
and I’ve come up with the perfect can-
didate: me. At thistime I would like to
throw my hat in the ring.

I would make one excellent Univer-
sity President. It seems like the perfect
job for me. I can schmooze with trust-
ees, hit people up for money, and live
in the Lee House with Mrs. Wilson.
She comes with the job, doesn’t she?

My past experience will be sure to
help me. Really, it would. My job
detassling corn when I was a junior in
high school, um, taught me a lot about
corn, and...I’m sure it will come up
somehow. And then I know my job in
the Exciting World of French Fashion
(sales associe at Express) will help me
out. My work there has given me tons
of skills for sucking up to wealthy
people. I can ﬁnd some way to compli-
ment anyone. Instead of saying things
like, “That’s a really slutty outﬁt you’ve
chosen,” or say, “That’s a really ugly
building you want us to build,” I can
come up with something that would be
tactful yet get the point across. I can
also serve as a wardrobe advisor for the
many wayward professors we have
here. I can give advice like, “Maybe
you should own more than one tie.”

Just think of all of the fun contro-
versy that having me as President would

cause. W&L has been a pretty contro-
versy—free place, with the notable ex-
ception of the Suzi the Sex Girl (I love
her) in Lee Chapel thing. With a woman
as President of W&L, any alumni who
were opposed to co—education but
maybe sitting on the fence as to whether
or not to donate money will have
a much easier time making up
their minds.

My ﬁrst act as W&L president would

posed Washington and Lee Naked Day.
Go to class naked (don’t worry, kids——
you can still wear your pledge pins
somehow). Get served your potatoes in
the D-hall by nude FIJI ’s. They ’ll prob-
ably have some kind of special Nude-
Themed dinner with open-faced sand-
wiches or something. Think of how
great it would be...for one thing, W&L
students are all good-looking -- almost
eerily so. And think of how your rela-

be to refuse to park tionships with
my car in the ﬁnal your professors
homeofTraveller.I C C would change.
just could not bear “Go ahead and
to park my beloved M give me that
Subaru in such an Wrst qflt as ‘C.’ What do I
historic place.Iwill pres‘ ent care? I’ve seen
icnsteald lplark in the would be to refuse éou nak:d.]:
orra 1 e every- - ome to t in
one else. Granted I to park my car ln of it,Naked Day
will probably have the ﬁnal home Of might conflict

a hard time getting
a spot...unless of
course I use my
power. I think all of
you will eventually
realize that putting
your Jeep in the
President’s parking
space is simply not
a good idea. I can
see to it that after you graduate, the
Capital Fund people call you at least
three times a day. You can run, but you
can’t hide. '

As President of the University, I can
also try to start fun new traditions. One
of them, amazingly enough, was sug-
gested by_ Richard Weaver. He pro-

Traveller. I just
could not bear to
park my beloved
Subaru in such
an historic place.

with my other
role as Faculty
F a s h i o n
Advisor,but
that’s okay.
Dinners and
receptions that
the President
has to throw
could be spiced
up with my own special brand of enter-
taining. Who wouldn’t love to do a
beer slide with Thomas Wolfe? If that’s
not enough, I could have W&L Cater-
ing serve food that exempliﬁes all that
is Washington and Lee. No, it would
not come from Andrew Schnieder’s
book. Instead, it would come from

Sarah Gilbert’s upcoming book Cook-
ing with Alcohol. Wealthy graduates
and their checkbooks can come to the
Lee House for dinner with me and the
results will be amazing. If we put
enough white wine in Sarah’s Sword-
ﬁsh with Roasted Yellow Pepper and
White Wine Sauce, enough bourbon in
the Mashed Sweet Potatoes With Bour-
bon, and then ﬁll them up with Sarah’s
Secret Recipe Irish Creme Fudge for
dessert, we can have that science build-
ing paid for in no time.

Probably the my most lasting legacy
will be when I make an improvement
on an aspect of W&L life that is noto-
riously bad. This is a problem so hor-
rible that it made me seriously recon-
sider coming here. I am referring, of
course, to the coffee served in the co-
op. This vile excuse for coffee will be
rapidly phased out as soon as I take
office. Instead we will drink freshly
ground gourmet coffee from Lexing-
ton Coffee Roasters. All the wimps
who put stuff in their coffee (cream and
sugar) will be charged extra.

I have to admit, though, that I want
to be W&L’s President for some fairly
selﬁsh reasons. The Lee House would
be great for parties. I’d have the whole
parking problem, the biggest challenge
in Lexington, all wrapped up. Most
importantly, I remain conﬁdent that
my grades will improve in spite of the
long hours I’ll have to spend doing
presidential stuff. All I’ll need to say is,
“Perhaps you should rethink giving
your boss such a low grade. Besides,
I’ve seen you naked.”

90 College ‘Honor Codes Make a-‘ibifference?

There will be an Honor System program entitled “Do College Honor Codes Make a
DﬂhmméﬁnkmCmmdm7ﬂ0pmxmWkmmwmgRbmmyl l

The panel lor this program will include:
Professor Donald l\'lcCal>¢, Rutgers University

Dean ol Students David Howison

Professor Louis Hodges
Professor Lamar Cecil
Professor Roger Oroot

Executive Commttte President Kevin Wchh
Carol Pierce, 395
David Stewart, ’96
Cassius O'ue:m;“’96 ”

A reception will follow in Fairfax Lounge

To the editor:

The Ninth Annual Lip Synch Contest is history. Once
again this event, sponsored by SARAH (W&L Students
Against Rockbridge Area Hunger), was a huge success.
Twenty one acts and 503 paid admissions grossed $2643 for

p the purchase of food for local food pantries.

Thanks go out to so many who volunteered their time for
this worthwhile, charitable event: our esteemed judging
panel - Dennis Manning, Kevin Webb, Sam and Julia
Kozac, and Morgan Warner Fuller (a 1992 SAMS commit-
tee member), the emcees John Turner and Greg Lynch, the

LETTERS

SARAH thanks ninth annual Lip Synch volunteers

SARAH committee, chaired by Lawson Brice and Beth

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Hamlet

Tickets are on sale in the Lenfest
Center Box Office for the
Shenandoah Shakespeare Express
performance of Hamlet on March 9.
The show will begin at 8:00 in
Johnson Theatre.

Twelfth Night

Tickets are on sale in the Lenfest
Center Box Office for the
Shenandoah Shakespeare Express
performance of Twelfth Night on
March 8. The show will begin at
8:00 in Johnson Theatre.

Open Auditions

Open auditions for Washington
and Lee’s annual Festival of One
Acts will be held on Wednesday,

‘ February 8, fro 4:00 p.m. to 6:00

p.m. and Thursday, February 9th,
from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. in the
Johnson Theatre. This year’s plays
are Hopscotch, Graceland, The
Other Side, and Self Torture and
Strenuous Exercise. There are parts
for six women and six men. The
Festival of One Acts will run from
March 23 through March 28.

Phonathon

Have you seen millions of people
with “Do it for W&L” or “For a

, good time call 1-900-Phonathon”

T-shirts? Are you dying to be in on
this fun? The fall Phonathon is ap-
proaching rapidly, and we need your
help in soliciting donations from
alumni. The Phonathon will run
from January 29 to February 2, from
6:30 to 10:00 p.m., in the Develop-

. ment office in Washington Hall.

Calling shifts last only half an hour,
and you will receive a free T-shirt,
drink, and a free five minutephone
call anywhere in the United States.
If you are interested, please call
Maureen Levey in the Development
Ofﬁce at X8487.

, Naked

The Film Society will present
Naked on Friday, January 27, and
Saturday, January 28 at 8:05 p.m. in
the Troubadour Cinema, at the cor-
ner of Main and Henry Streets.

Interviews

There will be an Interviewing
Workshop on Monday, January 30,
at4:00 in Room 109oftheUniversity
Center. All students are invited
to intend.

Video Practice

CDPO will be conducting vid-
eotaped practive interveiws all day
on Friday, February 3 in Room 109
of the University Center. Prior sign-
up is required. Sign up in the CDPO.

Coffee House

Tom Acousti will be playing in
the GHQ at 9:00 p.m. The event
will be sponsored by Student
Activites. Admission will free.

Last Lecture

On Thursday, February 2, Pro-
fessor of Economics John M. Gunn
will present a talk entitled “Preserv-
ing the Core of Goodness in Ameri-
can Civilzation” as part of the Last
Lecture Series.Following dinner in
the GHQ at 6:30, the lecture will
begin at 7:00 p.m. in the fonner
game room of the W&L Univer-
sity Center. The lecture is open to
the public.

XiPiXi

Xi Pi Xi will be conducting for-
mal rush beginning February 20.
Contact Sarah Gilbert at X4559
or Betsy Green at X4236 for
more information.

The Ring-tum Pl) 1' maintains a policy that all

letters to the editor must include a name in

order to be printed.

 

members of our campusB&G staff who do so much in
assisting us, W&L Security and the student security volun-

teers, and Rachelle Rowe and T.J. Wiley who worked
behind the scenes. Thanks to the members of the
twenty-one acts who worked hard in putting together some
dynamite performances.

Congratulations to the winners: 3rd place - Run DMC
SPE, who performed a medley of pop hits; 2nd place -
KKG1, with their rendition of the New Kids On The
Block’s Step By Step , and 1st - KKG2 performing Aretha
Franklin ’s Respect.

The greatest praise, however, goes to the members of the

Photos and Interviews

' TALKBACK

‘By Darcey Livingston and Yen Nguyen

 

Provenzana. Lawson and Beth are the ﬁrst members to chair
the committee for two years. Consequently, they have been
working unselfishly for the past three years to raise money
to feed the hungry of Rockbridge County. If you were at the
Pavilion on Friday night, you know they succeeded. All of
those mentioned here (and my apologies to anyone who may
have been overlooked) ashould be proud of their
contibuations. Thank you for this monumental effort.

Very Sincerely,
Jerry Darrell, SARAH Advisor

 

Things just

aren't the same

without you.

If you choose W&L’s new president from the cast of Melrose
Place, who would it be and why?

Peter Burns, because we wouldn’t need the ‘On the

Shoulders of Giants’ Campaign.”

cable.”

 

‘V Annemarie paulin, Honolulu, H1, ’95 _ “Dr. Debbie Munson, Wyckoff, NJ, ’96 —“Rikki the
I porn star because her sense of humor is impec-

 

CarolineAmason,Birmingham,AL,’95—“Jake Yabiz Sedghi, Houston, TX, '95 — “Amanda
because he’s hot!”

because she symbolizes the school.”

 

    

> PAGE 10 I NEWS The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1995 "

UFE N   _ ©m-+9-9 )«  
HELL . MM-(zeoawi

6

DRO! W€‘RE HAVI-J6 THE '

       
   
      
  
 
  

       
   

   

    

   

 

W|LL AND ABE Fmm. 8Am.e‘ro see Tmg M0945-1-Ea 1-ms MWSWR  
in WHO '9 W6 0F \s... (moon. \S... Mx=.c~.A— ¢ 2 “
MOWER ‘9L‘-W-’ mectooss vnzus ZoM8lE! 5 2
KING OF  ;
,1 m
ONSTER ; :
3 2
I 5 LAND 1; § , .
g E
i THi‘i:l91‘PHEE3I%U REAUZE <  E
TH\S MONSTER ‘nus Mons?-3611 '\"H\9 f:_°'°5TER 3 aevusuctws HA1-E355 3.3% 8§i'E;L:>.2«uc. S?
‘S...    S .. . . . .   you.‘-L  To STA! ‘_ 
3590 F90" WE § IN THE oapununee. 3
Owner zeeo! _n_ g 3
g D
. - . f g
. .. 5 g
2  '
‘#~

I'M NOT PLAVMG THl§
(aAMe WITH 1400.’ you

   

  
 
   
 

TNA\S KNC-,

Oo~'T even) Kruow How oi: MONSTER

TO PLN9 IT QI(,~HT.’ usumo, ,~\

we

r

')K

A

.»

“"3 9 wdl 'l(nA wn

(ac? PR1? lrke 0‘

  
Haw lne$l"UAl(.'v\ﬁ

SAB Presents... ‘A

c¢MpuS of‘ym.‘21'

 7"“ ”°’ TANNING SPECIAL

u$ ’Tuc$J1>~1$ alr _
 M am up", ,$4O - Unlimited visits for one month ..

vefﬁlwj Cemlwf 0 l V
y N 11 s. Jefferson St. a 463-9588 - .

 WILLIAMS

N0b0dy Thursday, February 2 i
does it General Headquarters "
better. Doors open at 8:30 p.m. »

 

-. -.~. Aw. -. cw. ~:~1 '4.-«V.-mun:-m-v_ 4,4-any-1.”; -.«-n- I: « ~.'e.‘v‘-1-ﬁgXEfa;-.f.‘—;Tg',_?._'e.'g'v,'w_‘5.'.{-.7g'.7.}.7.7o::'{§p7.7L'

15 W. WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON
800 474-0056 703 464-3000

,2.-. --.‘~.:n‘r.

    
 
 

1} i
.-4' _
ff 0 _ 0 3
.:   @122 office has always been a place to get . ‘V A   $ 2
I ahead. Unfortunately, it's also .1 place where natural xi
' 1»

resources can fall behind. 50 here are some easy ways to

  I  E reduce waste at the office. Tum offyour lighm when you la.‘

if leéve. Drink out of a mug instead of throwaway cups. And

Beer ladled out with
  proper identification *

to cut down on trash, use both sides of a memo. Doing

M TI_‘ "'l these things today will help save resources for tomorrow.

Which is truly a job well done. I—800—MY~SHARE.
IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. D0 YOUR SHARE.

  i"7="m75i°' ﬂlliarth Share

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 27, 1995   ‘  PAGE It
 Hams teeter  r Atttttttttt Pht A

ACCEPT AND
zaaiee EANS Low PRICES! e’,z'e*;A,2'=;2

  

E RP All Natural Readers:

 Hunter   IF Y0U AHE SUPPOSED T0  
 '99 cream RECEIVE A STACK or PHI’s

on WOULD LIKE T0 HAVE

THEM DELIVERED SOME-

 

 A 1/2 gal. WHERE 0N CAMPUS, GET IN
Mama Mary’s Selected Varieties T0U(:H WITH STEPHEN
Pizza 49 Pappaios I
‘Crust 12 Pizza  WILLIARD AT 463-7296. I

Selected Varieties AMt THE DISTRIBUTION

’ .
Lays MANAGER Eon THE PHI,

T   AND THE BEST , QUICKEST

D
63 /I
JP’: :’=.'.

{J}. J. ‘too I‘ t ’ .——z

. .J— L * ' 6

Oz.

 

WAY T0 GET PAPERS IS BY
CALLING ME.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
    

x J
Orville I;edenbacher’s   All Juice    A  A It  /  . I  . > _. __t
Microwavtgetttd  APPIG  B   .  4 I .
Popcorn _ux_e._rge;:.e_21 oz. Juice __s4 oz.l t t v 1 commfg an
your debts into~«'one

  

. I easy-to-manage pa  Sent’.
Badcred1tnoproblem.ALLacceptedbasedonab tyttopay.
FAST llzur Is Jusfrl Pnou: 
candayot-mghttl-305-537t—3617t<24 HR Rsconmue)

for your FREE APPLICATION or write :
. BOX 645. HOLLYWOOD. FL 33022

 
   
     
     

      

Kisses, Hugs, Nuge Coke Or Diet

Hersh? Candies Coke

2$

    
 

Caffeine Free
Or Caffeine
Free Diet Cake

9  

 

I ». 13- 6 Pk. 20 Oz.
8 14 0 . . NHB
  Selected Varieties Pantene tttt .%&ma/¢/ 7 6‘ lo 7 90/4 7 re 8 WW4 axe 8 lo 9 92/7!
‘ Gardetto’s  Pl'O_-V f’a£"e't"°g  ea/25/ma/cg 24 6'l0 7 914 7w 8 ?//4 8 re .9 93/7!
Snacks___1e Haircare_1§'Z.2t geeeeme, 22 6'lo 7 92/74 we 8 82/74 8 lo .9 82/71
,, Vintae _ .ieémme/28,6re79M4 7108.?//48re9.?/ll
Seiqtzer 3/$ Ch_IP \ 
Water me, Clip___e ct. I tg Mt gewe %tmyee Jzmeeeegee 8%  
Prices Effective Throu h Jan. 31 1995 W 0”‘ WW “/“””“”' ‘%”Y“”‘” m " “’ %‘”"#‘/’
Prices In This Ad Effective nesday, Januaryt2t\i'>o1t;it;r<é1t1)|gt:1+JoarI1DLiea?; t, gglagtt t(t)t:t|t:ptLtEeXdl:l:gT:go  047’ 919%  £20 00/5%/0%40Wﬂ/3 W k440M4-

0nIy.We Reserve The High Limit Quantities

4 V i

 

 

Last Week:

BAsKr-:'rBA1.L- (M) def. Catholic, B’dgewater; lost-H. Syd.
(W) lost— Guilford, Rand. Macon
Swnvrmnc-(M) lost- J. Hopkins; def. Emory
(W) lost- J.Hopkins, Emory; def. M. Baldwin
WRESTuNG- 7th out of 8 at W&L Invitational
INDOOR TRACK- unscored meet at Virginia Tech

PAGE 12

S

@112 ‘ﬂing-mm iﬂhi

PORTS  

F This Week:

Sw1MM1NG- Richmond and Dickinson (M&W)

Hollins (W)

BA8KE'l_'BALIr(M) at B’dgwater, Guilford; vs. Va. Wes.

(W) at Catholic, E&H; vs. M. Baldwin

WllES'l‘LING- at Swarthmore Invitational V
klrmoon TRACK-at E. Tenn. St. Invitational (W)-

BASKETBALL, SWIIVIMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

JANUARY 27, 1995

By JosHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

The men’s basketball team
ended last week’s two-game los-
ing skid last Friday night with an
81-75 winover Catholic in Wash-
ington, D.C.

The Generals grabbed" a 34-
28 halftime lead and fought
Catholic to a draw the rest of the
way to preserve the six-point vic-
tory.

Junior Cam Dyer converted a
critical three-point play with0:54
to play to seal the game, record-
ing a career-high 31 point effort
to go along with his game-high
11 rebounds.

Fellow junior Derek Carter
grabbed 10 rebounds and added
17 points, connecting three times
from downtown, and senior Mark
Connelly contributed 16 points
in 19 minutes.

On Monday, the Generals con-
tinued their recent successes at
home, raising their home record
to 6-3 by coming from behind to
defeat Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rival Bridgewater 78-
74. ‘

Bridgewater held leads as
large as 14 points, but the Gener-
als pulled to within two late in the
second half.

After Bridgewater rallied for

 Airight.:_it—imé§rb__¢.e

 clans, career min;

g, .$l..mil1i0n

a six-point edge with less than
two minutes to go, sophomore
Matt Clark hit the boards for a
putback and a foul, and Carter
followed with a score to cut the
lead to one.

Junior Jon Coffman com-
pleted the turnaround on a go-
ahead three-pointer with 29 sec-
onds remaining. Coffman posted
18 of his 21 points in the second
half to lead the Generals come-
back drive, along with Carter’s
17 points. Leading-scorer Dyer
added 15, and sophomore guard
Chris Couzen hit for 12.

Head coach Verne Canfield
commented, “I was obviously
pleased to come back from 14
points down to win, and the kids
are continuing to re-leam what it
takes to win.”

Wednesday took the Gener-
als to face the South ’s top-ranked
team, ODAC leader Hampden-
Sydney. The game was tied 8-8
early when Hampden-Sydney
racked up a 24-4 run to take com-
mand with a 56-30 halftime ad-
vantage. '

W&L cut the lead to 17 on a
three-pointer from Coffman early
in the second half but couldn’t
draw any closer, losing by the
score of 96-79, as Hampden-
Sydney remained undefeated in
the ODAC.

Freshman Jimmy Schweer

- . 
.9 {papers are filled

had a career-high 21 points to
lead the Generals, and Dyer and
Connelly each had 10 points in
the losing effort.

The 2-1 week leaves the Gen-
erals even with a 8-8 record, 4-5
in the ODAC.

. When asked if progress had
been made on improving team
defense and addressing other
concerns, coach Canﬁeld equivo-
cated, “Yes and no. lt’s a matter
of consistency and sustaining an
effort. We need to stop those
lapses, but I see good progress.
As long as they’re playing hard
and playing together, we’ll be
ﬁne.”

Consistency continues to be a
problem for the Generals, who
have experienced several ups and
downs so far this season.

“There’s no so much you can
do to address that,” Canﬁeld re-
marked. “You just keep working
in the direction you set out at and
keep people focused on the goal.
It’s always a problem when you
have two or more losses in a row.
It’s called momentum. Most
people think of momentum as a
positive thing, but it can go the
other way too.”

The Generals now face
ODAC rival Guilford in Greens-
boro, N.C. on Saturday, before
taking to the road against
Bridgewater.

 

 

 his stance;.
  iiaehigmy

A informat

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee men’s swimming
team left the University of North Carolina last
Saturday with a split following an intense tri-meet
with Emory and Johns Hopkins.

The Generals routed an excellent Emory team
83-39, but were edged by Johns Hopkins 65-57 in
a meet which came down to the ﬁnal race.

Washington and Lee won eight individual races
in the meet, but Hopkins accumulated enough
points to stick with W&L and force the winner of
the meet to be decided in the ﬁnal event, the 400-
freestyle relay. Hopkins prevailed in 3:12.63, a
scant .48 of a second faster than the Generals.

Despite the tough ﬁnish, head coach Paige
Remillard remained upbeat over the meet.

“We beat a top ten team in Emory, and we’re not
depressed that we lost to Johns Hopkins,” he stated.

Numerous key individual perfonnances facili-
tated the Generals’ effort. Sophomore Nathan Hottle
stormed his way to three victories, and junior Frank
Braden garnered two individual wins.

Braden captured the 200-freestyle in a time of
1:46.97, and senior Tony Diedrich finished behind

Following an impressive victory by Emory’s
Peter Hommer in the 100-back, the Generals reeled
off four consecutive triumphs.

Hottle led off the streak and scored the ﬁrst of
his three individual conquests in the 100-breast,
finishing in just over a minute at 1:00.02.

Senior Grant Holicky took third in 1:01.09.
Freshman Erik Holbrook prevailed in the 200-
butterﬂy with a time of 2:03.05, and junior David
Stillman followed by triumphing in the 50-free in
48.73 seconds to complete the victory string.

Junior Craig Sears posted a personal best time in
the 200-back by ﬁnishing third in 2:03.39.

Hottle and Braden outswam the competition in
their victories in the 200-breast and 500-free, re-
spectively, and Hott1e’s conquest in the 400-IM in
a time of 4:15 .95 set the stage for the dramatic ﬁnal
event

“We can’t be upset over the finish,” Remillard
remarked. “We have no control over what the other
team does. We can only control what we do. We’re
excited about the times we ran, and we’re pleased
with where we are now.”

The Generals tote a record of 4-1 into this
Saturday’s home meet against Radford at Cy
Twombly Memorial Pool.

Photo by B-E-T-S-Y Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Allison Hull takes control of the ball against Randolph Macon last night. The
Generals dropped the game 63-48, however, as Randolph Macon outscored
the Generals 18-3 to end the first half and start the second.

Sophomore Chris_ Couzen defends a Mary Waghin

  

Men knock off Bridgewater; fall o ampden Sydney

‘Elizabeth.A. Green, The Ring-tum Phi
gton player in one of Wash-

ington and Lee’s most notable victories. The Generals set three NCAA records,
mcluding 51 total points in a five minute overtime between two teams and 28
points by one team (W&L) in an overtime.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Having clobbered Mary Baldwin College on
Wednesday, Washington & Lee’swomen’sswim
team is off to a strong start with a 6-2 overall
mark.

The Generals took ﬁrst place in all 12 events
in the 139-66 win. Senior Brandi Henderson (200
& 400 free) and junior Rebekah Prince (200
breast & 200 IM) had two wins apiece in the
romp.

Overall, the Generals are looking at one of
their best seasons ever.

“We’re doing pretty well on the year as a
whole,” said head coach Kiki Jacobs. “So far
we’ve had some real good swims, and the big win
against Catholic.”

The team has two weeks to gear up for the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Championships,
to be hosted by W&L, and seems to be approach-
ing peak form. ’

Jacobs was pleased with her team’s perfor-
mance last Saturday at UNC-Chapel Hill al-
though the Generals were beaten by perennial
NCAA powers Emory and Johns Hopkins.

Emory topped W&L 101-20, while Hopkins
posted a 95-23 victory.

Jacobs said the Generals were not expecting to
win the meets, but were looking for experience
against some top competition.

Prince was one bright spot for the Generals in
the meet, taking second in the 100 backstroke in

1:03.52, and third in the 200 back in a time of
2:15.27. Both are the top times in the ODAC so
far this season.

wimmers face tough foes at UNC meet
Men successful in Chapel Hill Women falltwi

him in 1:48.00.

cc to top squads

W&L also got a third place ﬁnish from freshman
Megan Wiedmaier in the 500 free (5229.65).

Wiedmaier and her classmates are a significant
part of the Generals’ success this season.

“[The freshmen] have added variety and depth to
the team, and a lot of spirit,” said sophomore Danielle
Burghardt. “They’re a great group of girls.”

Jacobs feels its Burghardt’s own class that is still
the Generals’ strength as they aim to repeat as
ODAC champions. The group of ﬁve sophomores
has continued to impact as they did as freshmen a
year ago.

“They’re still doing real well,” Jacobs said. “lt’s
our strongest class, besides our biggest.”

Burghardt says the group has come together in
their season and a half of competition.

“We started out not knowing each other much,
but we’ve bonded as a group,” said Burghardt. “I
think we’ve really progressed.”

The Generals host Radford at the Cy Twombly
pool Saturday beginning at 10:00 am in a meet that
Jacobs expects her squad to have no trouble with.
W&L’s toughest competition is likely to come in
the season’s ﬁnale, the Southern States Champion-
ships in late February.

This will be the ﬁrst trip to this meet for the
women, who usually conclude their season with the
ODAC/Atlantic States Championships.

“We needed a more competitive meet to end the
season,” Jacobs said.

She also pointed out that W&L’s men and women
both seem to perform better when competing to-
gether. Therefore, by joining the men at the Davidson,
NC meet, Jacobs believes her swimmers will be at
their best, and her team tends to agree.

“lt’s harder competition,” said junior Jill Sheets,
“but I think it’ll help everyone swim their best.”

it

Women lose sixth in a row i

By ERIC SWENSEN
Phi Staff Writer

Coach Terri Dadio remains
pleased with her squad’s im-
provement this year, only the
second for W&L women’s bas-
ketball, but the improvement
didn’t translate into victories last
week as the Generals dropped
contests against Randolph Ma-
con and Guilford to extend their
losing streak to six games.

In Greensboro last Saturday,
the Generals were able to hang
close for a half against Guilford
before fading early in the second
frame, losing 69-52.

In the Guilford game,

Michelle Hicks concluded a
strong week in which she aver-
aged eight points and six re-
bounds per game with nine points
and ten boards.

Last night Randolph Macon
took on the Generals for the sec-
ond time in a week as they visited
the Warner Center.

The result was much the same
as the Generals came out on the
short end of a 63-48 score.

Sandra Holmes led the way
with 14 points and 12 boards as
W&L dropped its sixth consecu-
tive game.

The next home action for the
Generals comes this Tuesday as
they take on Mary Baldwin Col-

lege in the Warner Center.

The Lady Generals take to the
road against Catholic on Satur-
day as they look to end their )\
current slide.

Even with the apparent lack
of success, head coach Terri
Dadio remains upbeat as her
Generals look for a strong ﬁnish
to the season in order to qualify
for the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament.

“I think we are getting better
each game,” said Dadio. ~“If we
play as hard as we have been >“
playing and if we show any more
signs of improvement we are
going to have a strong ﬁnish to
our season.”

Athletes of the Week

 

 

Amy Mears

Jon Coffman

\

 

