 

Y

A‘

A

 
  

mu,‘ -

WI A uni tnwetncmr‘

Lﬁttzmzouva I-Mar

She Stoops fl'o Conquer
o/oens toniglit

FEB ll  1995

nears
9

Canfield em

end Cm

/trcfvx.
e e“It?.1£~r3’
N55; 21
v. *1 
W‘) . 

(«*1

=5

U112 ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

VOLUME 94, No.).r

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

‘K . .,.,. .

A long nters np

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Robert E. Lee wandered out of the chapel Tuesday to enjoy the first major snowfall of the season. Bob Nelson,
Bob Ross, Malcolm Burke and David Stillman, all of the class of ’96 sculpted the replica of the Reposing Lee.
The area received 6-10 inches from the collective snowfalls of Saturday and Monday.

FEBRUARY 3, 1995

Arrests
made

in gun
incidents

BY MICHAEL H1-zwusrr
Phi Staff Writer

Freshman arrested for marijuana possession

BY MICHAEL Hswrerr
Phi Staff Writer

A second Washington and Lee student was arrested after a
W&L security officer found marijuana in his room.

Freshman Omar Vannoy was arrested on Jan. 22 and
charged with marijuana possession, a misdemeanor under
Virginia state law.

On Dec. 2, 1994, freshman Eric Daur was arrested and
charged with possession with intent to distribute 6 ounces of
marijuana valued at $1,100, which is a felony.

Police said Vannoy had three ounces of marijuana valued
at $540.

Vannoy said he was watching a movie with his girlfriend
when W&L security knocked on his door. Security told his
girlfriend to leave, he said. He admitted to having marijuana
when security asked him about it.

Security evicted him immediately and told him to wait

there. Vannoy then went to Dean Howison’s office, escorted
by dorm counselor Adam Plotkin.

He said he got the marijuana in Texas during winter break.
Vannoy paid $320 for it. Officer Gary Coleman who arrested
Vannoy said that had a dealer sold it on the street, the
marijuana would have cost $540.

Vannoy contends he was never arrested, but Coleman
said that in Virginia, the moment a suspect is served with a
warrant, he is arrested.

“Any time you have a warrant where the suspect cannot
leave, he is arrested,” he said.

Coleman said because the charge was a misdemeanor, he
had the choice of whether to release him or not. He believed
Vannoy would not ﬂee the country.

Vannoy was told that he had to be out of Graham-Lees
dorm by Monday night. He said he stayed at the Holiday Inn.
On Tuesday he said he talked with his lawyer, H. David
Natkin. Vannoy said on Thursday, Jan. 26, he went to the
Lexington Police Department and was officially charged
with marijuana possession.

Vannoy suspects his roommate, freshman Douglas Bryan
Hesney, tipped security off. He thinks his Hesney turned him

in so he could have the room to himself.

Plotkin and Hesney both refuted that charge. Plotkin
declined to say who told security about Vannoy.

Director of Security Mike Young also refuted Vannoy’s
suspicions.

“I think it’s unfortunate that Mr. Vannoy would say things
like that.”

Vannoy said he originally had four ounces of marijuana
before he smoked it. He said he had at most two ounces left
when security found it. Coleman said it was three ounces but
he will not be sure until the marijuana comes back from the
lab where it was tested and measured.

Vannoy said his court date was February 14 but has been
changed to February 21. He said he will probably join the
Marijuana Offenders program for first-time offenders. He
said the program lasts 10 to 12 weeks, and participants are
subject to urine analysis. His license has been suspended for
six months, he said. After the program, Vannoy said he will
be under unmonitored probation and after a year the charges
will be dropped. The school is waiting to see how his case
goes before the Student Conduct Committee.

Presently Vannoy is living at the Dutch Inn. Police are still
investigating.

Women and Leadership Samples to play
promotes unity among
female leaders

BY DAN QDENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

Carol Pierce ’95 and Karlene Jennings ’96
want to make Washington and Lee a friendlier
place for female student leaders. Last spring
the turned their hope into a group called
Women and Leadership.

Women and Leadership is a loosely bonded
group of female student leaders dedicated to
“contributing to the success and self- esteem
of women leaders on campus.”

They hold special events throughout the
year including receptions and dinners that
promote unity among women leaders. The
events also serve as opportunities for “affir-
mation, education, and the exchange of ideas,”
between those leaders.

For example, a post-Women’s Rush

   

reception was held Wednesday night for fresh-
men women. Class of 1998 Vice—President
Mary Jo Mahoney and Katherine Steuart ’98
led the event. It was intended to unify the
freshmen women after a divisive Rush.

The group is currently planning a plethora
of events. On January 31, Women and Lead-
ership hosted a reception for Helen Thomas,‘
the former UPI White House correspondent.
They are also working on a newsletter detail-
ing what women leaders are currentlydoing
on campus. In the Spring a women’s leader-
ship conference will be held at Skylark.

“There is a need for more communication
between the women’s groups on campus,”
said Co-founder Carol Pierce. She sees a
need to “encourage campus involvement,”
among female students.

to See Lip, page 2

Superdance tonight

BY PETE WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

By dancing at the Samples concert tonight
in the Pavilion, Washington and Lee students
can raise thousands of dollars for the Muscu-
lar Dystrophy Association.

Big Hairy Posse, a band that includes
recent W&L graduates, will kickoff the 16th
Annual Superdance for MDA at 9 p.m. Last
year, the event raised $12,000 for wheel-
chairs and special services. Superdance co-
chairman Trey Block hopes the event will
gross $30,000 this year.

The Samples concert has sparked calls
from across the state for tickets, said co-
chairrnan Tina Hand.

“They’ve really established themselves
as a great band,” Hand said.

BHP’s performance will be a welcome
ﬂashback for many W&L upperclassmen.

“The fact that they’re coming back to-
gether after some of them have graduated is
really exciting,” Hand said.

For Superdance, students collect dona-
tions and pledges and attend a concert. Last
year, about 800 students attended the David
Allan Coe concert, and about 50 of them
collected contributions.

If W&L donates $25,000 to MDA, W&L
can send a representative to Las Vegas to
present the check to Jerry Lewis on the Labor
Day weekend telethon. In 1985, when the
minimum was $20,000, W&L sent a repre-
sentative, said Fontanne Bostic, University
Services administrative assistant.

Through the years, the event has evolved
from a battle-of-the-bands to a dance—a—thon
to its current format as a single night concert,
Hand said.

Past acts include Drivin’-n-Cryin’ and the
Dave Matthews Band.

Prizes will go to the fraternity and sorority
that raise the most money. Last year’s win-
ners were Phi Delta Theta with $2000 and
Chi Omega with $700.

Black History Month: Check out the independent supplement, Crossroads

Two Lexington teenagers were arrested Thursday
in connection with the attempted armed robbery of two
Washington and Lee students.

The two students were held at gun point at different
times on Friday night.

Lexington Chief of Police Bruce Beard said one
teenager was charged with attempted robbery, grand
larceny and entering a dwelling with the intent to
commit larceny. Police charged the other suspect with
attempted armed robbery and use of a firearm in the
commission of a felony. Beard said police are still
investigating and other arrests will be made.

A sophomore was walking north on Randolph Street
with two friends near the coin laundry around 8:30
p.m., said Beard.

A group of eight male teenagers confronted the
student and asked him for money. The student and his
friends kept walking until one of the teenagers pulled
out a gun and pointed it at the student. At that time, a
police car passed by and the teenager put the gun away
and fled with his friends.

Beard said the student walked to a house at the
intersection of Randolph Street and Massey Street.
After a short time, the gunman knocked on the door and
someone let him in the house. Police said that the
teenager went upstairs and returned with a stereo.
Beard said the student asked the teenager to put the gun
away and turned to walk away. Another teenager
apologized and said his friend who pulled out the gun
was drunk.

Lts. Wayne Straub and Torben Pedersen
are investigating.

later that night at 11 p.m., a freshman was walking
north in the 100 block of Randolph Street.

Beard said a group of three males followed the
freshman. One of the men approached him and pointed
a gun at him, asking for money. The freshman told him
that he didn’t have any money, according to Beard.

The man fired a gun at the freshman, but did not hit
him. Afterward, the man told the freshman that his
friends made him do it. The other two men told him to
empty his pockets, Beard said. After they determined
that the freshman had no money, they walked ahead
north on Randolph Street.

Both students’ descriptions of the gunman matched.

File photo
David Allan Coe played at last year's
Superdance

The $10 admission can be paid at the door. People
who raise $100 in donations will get in free.

“It promises to be an outstanding evening,” Hand
said.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World  f

Europeans ﬂee from ﬂood waters

More than 120,000 people across northern Europe ﬂed their homes
because of surging ﬂood waters this week, mostly in the low-lying
Netherlands, where water levels continued to rise and river dams threaten
to burst. Twenty-six people have died and 85,000 people have been
evacuated since Monday. Dutch authorities told another 140,000 to
prepare for evacuation later this week. -

Death toll in Algiers bombing
reaches 42

The death toll from a suicide bomb attack on Algiers police headquar-
ters rose to 42. President Liamine Zeroual vowed to “exterminate the
monsters” who carried it out. Another 286 people, many of them children,
were wounded, according to state radio.

Xiaoping misses New Year message

Chinese senior leader Deng Xiaoping failed to deliver his traditional
greeting for the lunar New Year. In recent years, Deng’s televised
appearance has become an annual event during the holiday. His failure to
appear underscored growing concerns about his health.

The Nation 

Americans support caps on baseball
salaries

     

In a recent Washington Post-ABC News Poll, the majority of Ameri-
cans want President Clinton and Congress to stay out of the ballpark. The
poll also found many Americans supporting the owners. Many believed
the players were making too much money and agreed with the owners that
a cap on team payrolls was necessary and supported the use of replacement
players if the strike is not settled by the start of the new season.

AIDS leading cause of death for
young adults

AIDS has replaced accidents as the leading cause of death of young
adults, experts said. New ﬁgures released Monday show that in 1993, HIV
infections became the number one cause of death among Americans 25 to
44 years old. Harold Jaffe of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta said more than 441,000 Americans have gotten
AIDS since 1981, and more than 250,000 have died.

Lawyer says FBI orchestrated ter-

V rorism case

A defense lawyer in the case of the World Trade Centerbombing argued
that the FBI orchestrated a vast terrorism case against 12 Muslims to save
its reputation. The attorney said the FBI was embarrassed by its failure to
heed warnings of a plot to bomb the World Trade Center. Sheik Omar
Abdel Rahman, a 56-year-old blind Egyptian cleric, is accused along with
11 alleged disciples of plotting to blow up the New York bridges and
tunnels, the United Nations and an FBI office.

The State

Norfold Southern trains collide

The two Norfolk Southern trains that collided at a switch point near
Radford’s Bisset Park on Monday were both moving, said a railroad
spokesman Tuesday. A train headed west was supposed to be waiting for
an eastbound train to move past it, but both trains were moving. The
collision is still under investigation.

Report gives guidelines for religious
activities

School divisions in Virginia should try to preserve the religious
heritage and pluralism of the United States without resorting to indoctri-
nation and proselytizing, according to a report on proposed guidelines for
school religious activities. Prepared for the state Board of Education by the
state attomey’s office, the report recommended the prohibition of school
activities designed to inspire religious devotion but not the banishment of
all religious expression in schools. The report suggested that religious
activities be treated like other extracurricular activities and religious
groups be treated like other student groups.

New restaurant to open

The Phoenix Bar and Grill is scheduled to open Tuesday, February 7th.
The Phoenix is located where The Bone used to operate, and is owned by the

owner of Hunan Garden.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Michael Hewlett

The Ring-tum Phi. February 3, 1995

White House correspondent speaks I 
about experiences with six presidents 

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

“All roads lead to the Oval Office,”
Helen Thomas declared in her speech
in Lee Chapel Tuesday evening; one
might add that for the last half century
she has traveled most of these roads.

In her speech co-sponsored by Con-
tact, Women’s Forum and Women in
Leadership, Thomas reflected on her
impressive career as a journalist, span-
ning five decades and six presiden-
cies.

Hired by United Press International
in 1941, Thomas firts conducted radio
interviews dealing with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, the Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Wel-
fare, and Capitol Hill.

In 1960, Thomas covered the presi-
dential campaign of John F. Kennedy
and followed him to the White House
the following year.

In covering presidential personali-
ties, Thomas soon became a personal-

ity herself. Her “Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent” at the close of a press conference
has become a White House tradition.

Thomas’s presence has not been
limited to the arena of White House
interviews, however.

In 1959, Thomas became president
of the Women’s National Press Club,
later being named the first female
officer of the National Press Club it-
self.

In her speech, “Inside the White
House,” Thomas first highlighted the
current achievements and problems of
the Clinton administration.

Thomas credits Clinton with play-
ing a significant role in the stabiliza-
tion Haiti, the end of apartheid in South
Africa, the continued suppression of
Saddam Hussein, and talks recently
begun to end the violence of Northern
Ireland.

To this list of foreign accomplish-
ments, Thomas added such domestic
measures as the Motor Voter Bill,
NAFTA, the Brady Bill, Goals 2000,
the Family Leave Bill, and the Na-
tional Service Act.

Even with both the House and Sen-
ate now under Republican control, and
his unimpressive public approval rat-
ings, Thomas doesn’t “count Clinton
out.” (She points to Bush’s 90 percent
approval rating in 1991.) The presi-
dent, Thomas quipped, “has many miles
to go before he sleeps.”

Turning from Clinton’s career to
her own, Thomas spoke of her impres-
sions of the office of the presidency in
general, and over time.

“So many presidents and their
wives,” Thomas said, “have mourned
the goldﬁsh bowl they live in,” yet she
does not sympathize with them.

In her experience, presidents actu-
ally enjoy “lots of privacy and much
privilege.” Thomas cited such privi-
leges as private helicopters and Air
Force One.

The close scrutiny of the press which
accompanies these luxuries is a fact for
which Thomas does not apologize: “Ir-
reverence is the way we play this game.”

Jefferson, after all, once said that
“eternal vigilance is the price of lib-
erty.”

“People can handle the truth,” Tho-
mas emphasized, “and deserve no less.”

Expressing her disappointment in
the increasing tabloidization of the
mainstream press, Thomas neverthe-
less intends to play under the newest
rules, instead of wishing for “the good
old days.’

Thomas sees other important devel-
opments in the media as well, owing to
technology.

“With CNN bringing the world’s
pain into our living rooms everyday,
we do live in a global village.”

The chief responsibility of the press,
for Thomas, remains the same, how-
ever: “to keep the people informed and
democracy alive.”

In her impressive career, Thomas

I

V .4

‘F

has adhered to this purpose, even as the. .5 ii;

press and the world beyond evolve.

Thomas’s dedication to this prin-
ciple, the basis of her career, can be
glimpsed in her own words.

Asked by a member of Tuesday’s
audience how long she intends to be
doing what she does, Thomas instantly
replied, “Forever.”

Women and Leadership unites W&L females

I->WOMEN, page 1

The group was organized last Spring Term after
a dinner for female students and faculty was held in
which over 200 women attended.

“There was a desire for female students to get to
know the female faculty members and to find out
what their life was like,” said Dean Anne Schroer-
Lamont, Women and Leadership’s faculty advisor.
Female students can boost their self-confidence by
emulating female faculty role models, said Schroer-
Lamont.

Since freshman men were meeting upperclass
men through Rush,Women and Leadership hosted a
freshman reception in October to give freshman
women a chance to meet upperclass women, said
Pierce.

“We want to see freshmen women use the lead-

ership potential that got them into W&L in the first
place,” said Co-founder Karlene Jennings.

Women and Leadership receives funding from
many different campus groups including the Women’s
Forum, the four sororities, Panhellenic, the Deans,
and the E.C.

While the group was founded to solidify bonds
between female student leaders, it was also created in
response to statistics which reﬂect a discrepancy
between the numbers of male and female leaders.

“Women are not well represented in the top stu-
dent government slots,” said Shroer-Lamont. She
added that in ten years of coeducation at W&L the
E.C. has never been 40% female.

Schroer—Lamont also believes women are at a
disadvantage in student elections because male stu-
dents tend to vote in blocks.

“Males in fraternities tend to support each other
and vote together for other males. Femalestudentsare

more individualistic in their voting behaviors and
often suffer as a result,” she said.

Despite this trend, Pierce, Jennings, and Schroer-
Lamont said Women and Leadership will not be a

lobbying group for female candidates during student I 

elections.

Schroer—Lamont also believes that women are '

if .

under-represented in the faculty and administration ‘ j

as well.

“Some female students go through this University "' 

without ever taking a class with a female professor,” 

she said.

She pointed out that no women are represented in 

W&L’s top administrative echelon.
“Not one woman is involved in making the really
big decisions,” she added.

If Women and Leadership succeeds in its goals,  _

these sitautions may change.

Symposium to discuss plays

By JENNIFER LATHAM
Phi Staff Writer

When she directs a play in French,
Domnica Radulescu begins rehears-
als by asking her student actors to
make animal noises in unison.

Radulescu, a Washington and Lee
French professor, thinks the warm-up
helps students forget their inhibitions
and improves their acting in a foreign
language.

“It takes them out oftheir routine,”
said Radulescu. “It forces them to
take risks, to express themselves.”

Radulescu will share these kinds
of ideas with other professors who
direct foreign-language plays in the
First National Symposium on Theater
in Academe. The symposium will be
held at W&L Feb. 4 and 5.

About 50 students, professors, ac-
tors and playwrights from more than
10 states will give speeches on direct-
ing and acting in foreign-language
plays. The speeches will highlight the
benefits of theater as a pedagogical
exercise and the challenges that stu-
dents encounter as inexperienced
actors.

A group of W&L students will
present skits in German. And French
students will perform a scene from
Eugene Ionesco’s “Rhinoceros,”

which they staged last spring.

Radulescu said symposium partici-
pants seem excited about sharing ideas
about foreign-language theater.

“lt’s as if people were waiting to
express what they’ve gathered from
their experience,” Radulescu said.

W&L senior Ginny Guthrie, who is
helping Radulescu organize the con-
ference, will talk about her acting ex-
perience in “Rhinoceros.”

“Not only do you have to under-
stand what’s going on [in a foreign
language], you have to make other
people understand, too,” Guthrie said.
“Seeing it all played out and doing it
ourselves...takes regular literary analy-
sis a step further.”
Guthrie said she had worried that
Radulescu’s class could not learn lines,
gather props and rehearse enough dur-
ing spring term to make “Rhinoceros”
a success.

“In six weeks instead of 12 weeks,
there are so many different pieces that
have to come together,” said Guthrie.

Radulescu agreed. She and other
directors at the symposium will discuss
the ways they solved students’ prob-
lems in acting.

“The hardest part [of directing “Rhi-
noceros”] was to get the feel of the
characters, the nuances...the spirit of
the people, of the language, the ges-
tures,” said Radulescu.

As a director, German Professor

Roger Crockett said he also focuses on
helping students develop
stage presence.

“I find it very difficult sometimes to
get students to come out of their shells,
to stop speaking in monotone and to get
the woodenness out of their voices,”
Crockett said.

Actors and directors at the sympo-
sium will share performance success
stories, as well.

Crockett said students who have acted
in the German plays seem to have more
energy when they perform
for audiences.

“All of a sudden it just spills out of
them,” said Crockett. “When the chips
are down, it comes out.”

Radulescu said she also wants to talk
with other directors about the acting
skills students sometimes hide until
opening night of a play.

“The most thrilling part is when I see
a spark that comes from the student,”
Radulescu said. “Something comes out
of the student that I never saw in class
and conversation, sort of like a
little epiphany.”

The symposium will begin Saturday
at 9:30 a.m. and Sunday at 8:30 a.m. in
room109 of the University Center. Af-
ter 6 p.m., foreign-language theater
workshops will be held in the Lenfest
Center’sJohnson Theateruntil 9:30 p.m.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 3, 1995

‘X

i.VV\-G985

i.v\F'Lu:rai:e

‘Ctme.-tea

By BROOKE KEMPER
' Phi Staff Writer

. The images bombard American society -
6‘n the front page of the newspapers, on the
cover of magazines, on tradable cardboard pic-
tures, in the movies, on the television screen,
even on boxes of cereal on the supermarket
shelves.

1 These are the images of celebrity sports
player, a new breed of hero which has perme-
ated all aspects of twentieth century American

3 society. Gone are the latter day heroes such as

Henry Ford or Paloma Picasso, aptly reveled
f r paramount breakthroughs such as techno-

ogical advancements in transportation or inno-
vations in the arts. Modern day America has
ushered in a new era, an era in which those who
sparkle on the recreational playing fields earn

' huge salaries as well as acclaim.

‘It With the passing of time the evolution of the
American hero and the forms of reward for

' these heroes has been drastically altered. Now

that sports ﬁgures have won the acclaim of
America they have also earned the spotlight.
American fascination with the outstanding ath-
letic qualities of these ﬁgures has lead to a
constant scrutiny and publication of the lifestyles
of professional athletes.

How do they do what they do? What makes
them so special? Americans’ wonderment has
ﬁroduced a barrage of journalistic recognition.
It is this attention which can elevate sports
celebrities to their eminent status, yet it is also
this attention which can prove debilitating to

. the glamorous lifestyle of famous athletes.

yr Would Pete Rose make national newspapers
headlines after receiving a jail sentence for tax
evasion if he were not an All-Star professional
baseball player? Would the drug rehabilitation
of professional tennis prodigy Jennifer Capriati
be featured on newscasts if she had remained a
ﬂedgling amateur tennis player?

Surely the alleged double murder of Nicole
Simpson and Ronald Goldman would not make

 

intema- t i o n a l
headlines if it were
not linked to former
football phenom,
O . J . Simpson.
The hype surround-
ing this murder is

n exem- plary illus-

ation of thelinkbe-
tween ce- lebrity sta-
tus and p u b l i c
scrutiny.

Soci- ology pro-
ﬁe s s o r D a v i d
Novack offered his
feelings regarding
the exten- sive pub-
l i c i t . """""“""""‘“’""'  “There is a

ultur)al A110-J-doll fascina-
tion with -- coming p o p u l a r
heroes soontoa andO.J. is
One Of store near those he’
roes.” Novack
also at- you tributed

Che lack of positive news stories and the publi-
cation of the O.J. story to society’s bizarre
fascination with violence and death.
The public scrutiny surrounded the trial of
this superstar is unbelievable. Even intema-
‘onal audiences are opening their local news-
papersto view headlines telling OJ. Simpson’s
woes. Radio talk shows are now devoting

A themselves entirely to public conjecture con-

cerning the guilt or innocence of O.J. Televi-
sion networks are devoting huge time slots to
five coverage of the trial. Bookstores are filled
with a selection of newly published books
chronicling the incidence. Even O.J. himself is
featured as an author of one of those narratives
of the circumstances surrounding the trial.

-1 In the informational black hole of Lexing-
ton, students are voicing opinions about the
publicity of the O.J. Simpson trial. Most stu-
dents convey a general feeling of distaste for
the continued comprehensive coverage of the
issue, yet some students voice genuine concern
about the events surrounding the trial.

One student said, “I think all the hype is
ridiculous. Doesn’t America have anything
better to do?”

Law students Dave Payne and Rob Grant
Questioned the fairness of the trial when asked
their feelings about the publicity of the OJ.
trial. Grant fears that the televised presentation
of the pretrial events and the trial itself has
created an environment which is not conducive
to the existence of an unbiased jury.

Sophomore Vivian Stone took matters into
her own hands. The night Fox aired its T.V.
movie of the O.J. story she attended an 0.1.
party. Guests were required to bring appropri-

te cocktails, of course. “You have to bring a

rink with ‘o.j.’ or some kinds of ‘juice’ in it,”
said Stone while the party was still in the
planning stages.

While many feelings are ambivalent and
subject to change with the revelations to come,
Gne thing will remain constant—— the coverage.
The coverage of the Simpson trial reflects more
than mere curiosity on behalf of the American
public. The publicity represents the malleabil-
ity of public opinion and the continued evolu-
qion of the American hero.

  ‘I/l/cﬁife

.

PAGE 3

Mrs. Hardcastle (Phaedra Cianciulli ’96) is vexed with the antics of her son Tony Lumpkin (Denis Riva ’97) in She Stoops to Conquer, Oliver G3l)d:1iiiptﬁ’;
rollicking classic comedy of love and highjinks. The show opens tonight, February 3, and runs through the 7th in the Keller Theatre. Tickets are free
to W&L students, faculty and staff. Reserve your ticket by calling the Lenfest Box Office at (703) 463-8000 Monday through Friday from noon to 4 p.m.
and two hours before each show. 3

comedy.”

ébrz <5 oops o Conqapene onig

 

Other cast members include W&L gradu-
ates Mark Daughtery (‘74), playing Mr.
Hardcastle, and Rob Mish (‘76), playing Sir
Charles Marlow and Landlord.

Written by Oliver Goldsmith in 1773, this

By KATHRYN MAYURNICK
Phi Staff Writer

Today brings a break from the same old
weekend — the critically acclaimed play “She
Stoops to Conquer” makes its debut at the
Lenfest Center on Friday, February 3.

The seventeen talented cast members will
perform through Tuesday, February 7.

Jeff Tibbals, playing the role of Young
Marlow, and- Mandy Irons, playing Kate
Hardcastle, lead what is called “a sentimental

satirical play was a little too much for some
eighteenth century people to stomach.

It was referred to a “very wretched comedy”
with “no moral” and “no ediﬁcation of any
kind.” (This sounds a little like some W&L
students’ reactions to Suzi Landolphi.)

However, this narrow view of the play is
overshadowed by its timeless vitality and lon-
gevity.

In the ﬁrst year of its production, Dr. Samuel
Johnson said that “it makes the audience merry.”

Filled with oulandish practical jokes and
cases of mistaken identity, the show promises
to keep the audience in a constant state

of laughter.

    

Jeff Tibbals ('95) as Young Marlowe ﬂashes a
mischevous smile at Mandy Irons (’95) as Kate

Hardcastle.

Publicity Photo

Mandy Irons, playing
the lead role for her se-
nior thesis describes the
show as “really, really
funny.’

“The highlight of the
show is when everyone’s
plans backﬁre and ram
headlong into each
other,” said Irons.

The most ironic thing
about the play, however,
is that even though Oliver
Goldsmith wrote it as a
way out of debt and to
releive the pressure from
his creditors, the cost for
W&L students is free.

“When else in life are
you going to be able to
see live theater for free
rightoutyourbackdoor?”
said Irons.

Publicity Photo

Lovers Hastings (Aaron Brotherton ’98) and Constance (Adrienne
Bryant ’97) plan their elopement. Meanwhile, Constance ﬂutters her
eyelashes at Hastings.

 permission £6 make \N\O\/25 \M!\A€Y' like CO.\/QVS

By LORI RAMSEY
Phi Staff Writer

In 1992,Antioch College,
located in Yellow Springs,
Ohio, passed its “Sexual Of-
fense Policy.” The policy has
since spawned much discussion,
criticism and publicity.

The policy was founded in an at-

 

tempt to combat the problem of date
rape at Antioch. 
Antioch also

 
 

 
   
  
 

threat to individual freedom. It has
been parodied on SaturdayNightLive.
However, few people realize that

founded the ‘TD  the policy was drafted by students.

policy based on  .:.-.~. Many of them are happy withthe

the assumption ’ rules they have created.

that many stu-  “lt’s made me feel 100%

dents had been  m 0 r e comfortable, more

v i c - , respected and
, « more em-
. A‘, powered,”

  

sexually related violence before com-
ing to Antioch, and that Antioch should
provide an atmosphere that promotes
healing.

The policy requires the initiator in
a romantic situation to obtain consent
from the other person before moving
on to another level of physical inti-
macy.

Consent is deﬁned as “verbal and
willing,” and the policy applies to
heterosexual and homosexual couples
as well as groups.

The policy has been criticized as a

. -Lstefalihww 1 av: w ‘ ~

said

Antioch junior Claire Mills.

The policy also requires students
to take responsibility for what they
say.
Karen Hall, Antioch’s Director of
Sexual Offense Prevention and Survi-
vors’ Advocacy Programs, said,
“Antioch is not in the business of
‘legislating kids.’ Respect and com-
munication start early in a relation-
ship; under the covers is a little late.”

Antioch’s policy may be an ex-
ample of the consequences of the per-
missive society in which we live. Once

things such as pre—-marital sex, ho-
mosexuality, promiscuity and por-
nography were not tolerated by the
mores of society. The sexual revo-
lution changed morality.

Today teen pregnancy, child
abuse, acquaintance rape and do-
mestic violence are major social
problems. Sex scandals such as
Packwood, Fisher/Buttafuoco and
Bobbitt stories carry the news.

Traditional social codes no longer

exist. Women are afraid of social
violence, and men are afraid that
they might be misconstrued as mon-
sters.

Maybe both sexes might beneﬁt
from a few guidelines. Antioch has
tried a new policy in an attempt to
deal with changing social mores.
maybe it isn’t perfect, but has Hall
said, “The policy is humanizing -
it brings both people actively into a
sexual relationship.”

0

.Ws l%E(}‘RIa‘."I‘ T0«ANl:IOU'I:1CE§£‘HAT PH’2'MQVlE
RESIIEVVIER Igmx‘ SUSONG Hits ﬁrs CHICKEN Pox
mrs wrilzx AND, mtisy 1's UNABEE io w1!1'1;E HIS

-COLU'Ml\l"I‘HISlV‘i<3IjK.‘ ", ' * "

us
as
’ Q ..

nu

 

 

 

MIXED MEDIA
by Jack Ohman

‘ l The tang-tum rm men“ aryo :1 '
W&LIFE , ’ “‘ " ""
_ _/K I‘ T J
O‘

   
    
  
  
   
 

      

   
      
   

©}‘%9S‘gl"|1'PsUB:Slﬁ:3vl1elg‘5€|'Vl cccccc c.  I A (
..BUD6ET FIGURES MD Mm' "A5;
5’'‘°“' “W” RJBI!l(lST LET ME ' " -- -11‘ 0
WH'CI-I ' g;,",’,:,\ / SET me iz'e<oszo
- STATEMENT ‘ $1'RAl6|-|Tj/ #-_. . .n , . —= \

0,43» 61‘;9‘|9?‘_Tr;‘l:ur::Med::aSeNices.l c. / \\:
ups rue / - '“ ’ W ' ii? ~ ___PoPE pun PAuL11’,(OUl-D , :»
LE A51 __ P I ' ' ' you §uMMAR|'lE ‘lO0OYFAR3
C EDI ILIT ?  ' OF ("m"°u< mouem “ME

R B Y , v - '5  WE HAVE LEFT?

        
 

 

 
  

   

1 ‘ BAD Bum“
1 Aficionado C‘R‘f‘9N_\CllmEss
lC\0t\ado

*—*~l .. eaoov wasro
 «N NE"

  
 
 
   
  

CIGAR
Aficionado

'
O-



     

 

     
   
     
    

 

 

IN THE BLEACHERS
by Steve M00|'e

hhbl O-|hII'tl'b

I oseo To 82 IV '\I5\‘\\v.\E Am) I HATED L\f—E 1 Bout»-x-r A
Demzesseo A LOT Pout Aw MOPE M80 Ru. rrs 9l2\T-E Htxueme (1095. 0
. _ - 9

I \ l
S
5

  

go B) 0 A ﬁe BUT 1 .\\)ST TAUKEV M3 NQEVQ ‘AK-RE :
’(r\H‘Fl{dHF,IRAPl)S1? \tl)\;l\0€‘g.S:A?\\§))\& G, Adv SQU OMKE9 Q\)\TE vewmom G. 5
MO MOQKEO ‘; _ _
- - ;=’. rtimi2e°lt°&.;:8."a":.*:.°:;:.*-*»'~-
R M sun as rt cumaoeo M") 1'M no Loneee NOV’ I'M ‘ ‘S ‘ ‘ ~ 
(:1:-xveatxexe gen/lie u)\lo\,E Ll?-E GEMM 809 l-lUrJ\<*9 002%. ’° . 1 ,
PQDZAC Stow ,. , , A 2 —  \’
u l . ' ' 1/ ft‘  (1
' ‘ E I ‘ A Ls   ‘ :: ' :1 '
-. L ‘i A »’!=-:‘.’—;<':;;"" ,' ‘ ,.-,7 9  .
_ ,‘ K  __ ax ; ; lv% é,;/ ’ ” r//2
. __ — — Z .1 / / V —;  .
B I6 0‘ . ~  . , . E  *-mrx I  l-"‘ ‘l : ‘ill /
‘ 0 -— - §. .1" ‘ , 2, V '1 4/
K l\ '7- _A_ —‘ ‘ :1 :- -—»—\  / ax ’  ' ))
sranneem I BUT n- Seems lJoS‘T wtst-t M‘! BUT SHE u)or.)"t‘. M. 3* ‘ - ,_ a‘   __
ccwr STOP NOTHING TO 38 swim: woven 1 Guess‘ I_'M N‘ \v - ~ A ~ __ _ ‘ — — “ ' . , , a
an Mme. vewzeo TALK TO Me U‘; ”“~~ _ _\- ; ,,, ti
‘1 ‘ C ED, _  _ __ _’I_‘.. / ,
- \\ «A. \\x\ *~~?~== - :~. ' /- ;”‘'t ‘N  
' . ‘ /, ;=a_ﬁ
, - ' . “Judging by the tracks, l’d reckon three, ma four _ ///’ -r /,%-:5; .
linebackers did this.  And after some k‘ of c bratory ’%/"
dance, they ran off toward them i yonder.” “I hate dodgeball.” .

 
 

     
 
  
         
   
        
     

***SPRI BREAK 95*" ’ _ '-
America’s #1 n reak Company! The Ring fwn Phi’
. Cancun, Baha , or Florida! DCIFTWD, we're
110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 fri ,
L and TRAVEL FREE! for our ﬁnalized 1 . 900d-
Party Schedu1es.. 00) 95-BREAK

Summer Jobs

at Washington and Lee

—Counse1ors for Summer Scholars
June 28 - Jul 29, 1995

Summer Scholars is a four—week cademic pro am for 100 rising
high school seniors. Counselors serve as resi t advisors for 10 8
students in Graham—Lees dormitor nd plan even’ and weekend

' activities. Te ositions are a ‘able. Appli a ‘on deadline,
F ebruarq 28, 1 . ‘

-Special Pro ams Resident Assistants _
Iune 2 - August 31, 1995 .

The Office of Special Programs empl 4 W&L students to serve as host/
hostesses for a wide varietq of Speci rograms including Alumni Colle ,
Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities managem

and housekeeping, receptions, and transportation. * ~

Application Deadline, March 17, 1995.
For further information, please contact the Office of Special Programs,

 \

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
‘ andAccess0ries

Winter Clearance Sale

23 N. Main St.’ (703)463-5988
Lexington, VA 24450 .

/
 

 

 

Howard House, 463-8723 ’ V
: cmus cm. Box 220615. HoLLYwooD. FL 33022 " THEM
  -=~.:::° 2 YES! --WWW cw-=  ~
Itm s.." ur name."
° CREIN mm BEEN EDDOWN BEFORE! ' (hrdsappruvedlmmcdlalcly. 100% GUARANTEED!
VISAO and tcrCard9 rtdlt cards you I 1 -~-
deserve and need -—|D—B0O DEPARTMENT | NAME 1,
STORES—TUlTl0N—ENTERTAlNMENI‘- ,  
EMERGENCY CASH—T|CKE1S-—RESTAURANTS— ADDRESS

ositions available monthly. BA
r BS required. $1 8,000 - 24,000

r. Accom. provided, other ben-
fits. Send resume, copy of di-
loma and copy of passport to‘;

Hon-:Ls—Mo'rEr.s—ci\s-CAR RENTALS— ' 7
RI.-‘.PAlRS—AND T0 emu) voun CREDIT RATING! I CITY ______._._._ STATE _. ZIP

I
“”“g£9‘ no t dung! . PHONE _E___.___ SS.”
cmﬁ No c t c ks! ' SIGNATURE

“5..ivI*5§.o  "0 59C“"it¥ 005'“! ' mm acud Is a regime uldcvnark or «am: lnttmalloml Inc.
H‘ and ' ' I sa is a registered in man of VISA u Inc and VISA lntcmauonal
SEND rm: coupon room .

Youn cmanrr CARDS ARE HAIIING! . Ofea TEL‘ 011‘322'242'562
— - . - u - n - - - — u - - - - u u - - up. u - -  

Bok J i Corporation, Yang Chu
.0. Box 8 Yang Chun Gu, Seou

 

 

'1‘he mug-‘tum Phi, February 3, 1995

‘Sn.../[ate 5.4. /..m..'i

onmy

KAUE 0

  
  
  
        
       
        
 
    

._‘_‘

    

Scenes like these, taken from around the Washington
and Lee campus early this week, may become familiar as
snowstorms are expected throughout the next week, and
possibly longer.

1'

All Photos by
Betsy Green

, , ’ You caught my
The lRI1IrIIg=ItI1IIIIIm plhnz eye_ Yes’ you_

lltvs not jiustt ilor hrealkilast anynnore. You know, the

- d L st -
W L t H Washington
,. &  UNIVERSITY FLORIST f',I,‘,,t, ﬁfe ,',‘,a..,

165 SOUTH MAIN STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

V «   'W&L CAMPUS BY DAVID <703>463-6080 I """"""""‘*”"""‘

one with a re-
fined sense of
style. Your
brilliance was
clear to me
right away by
PLATE, RESTRI KE HAN D'COLORED FISQWQ-¢R§ FQR the fact that

you were read-

'd.W. BROCKEBROUGH-f ﬂlsls OCC*ﬂc§lOHc§ ingacertain

good looking

KEELING ' S/N LIMITED EDITION

‘W&L CAMPUS COPPER-

 

campus news-

. I. I 8 6 8 S I G N E D C H  K A       .  . paper witlol a

  . Global Internship f:;’;“B;l°l‘i’;

. R. E. LEE SIGNATURE ON and Language Single Mack
and white

W&L LETTERHEAD

newspaper is
interested in
you. Come join
us for a mean-

'W&L COLONNADE, PEN/INK

 

BY D. BLAC KWELL MW,,,Ma..h..h ingful working
;( i _ Unive4I':;)i(:)I/)n(1Ienter  : relationship.
 Fairfax Lounge :—‘=*- We can stay up

late together on

BOSTON T_"“"S“"-"
UNIVERSITY ~ I‘ nights: Play

‘EIEIDIN

, 4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)464-6464

V'SIl

 
 

International Programs  141' b""°i “’g°“‘°'°’
I’ .
Bﬂl  Open Monday - Saturday  E3 and be happy’
10 a_m_ - 5:30 p_m_ 232 Bay Stalek ,BoxQ, Flon,M 215 - 617/353-9888 52 Work for 
An equal apportuniIy.a xmmlive aclioniruf ' ’
‘ : I 5 ii  .85 I Phi.

 

    

PAGE 6

  Ellie lliing-tum   lﬁlli

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Our Bubble Has Burst...

Crime has always been something Washington and Lee
students treat as what happens to “someone else.” They tell
us that we, here in the peaceful little quaint hamlet of
Lexington, live “in a bubble.” Once we get out in the real
world, they tell us, things will be different.

Washington and Lee welcomes the real world to Lexing-
ton. Not with open arms, perhaps, but the real world has
come, and we must accept it.

We refer to those recent criminal acts which have shocked,
or at least startled, our fair campus. Guns pulled on...and shot
at...students. Pretty scary stuff, but not unusual in a city-type
situation that we will soon be thrust into.

Students at Washington and Lee are starting to lock their
doors more regularly. Bikes are always locked up, now.

The honor code is as strong as ever, but we have been
unfortunately bombarded with members of the community
who were never required to sign little white cards pledging
not to lie, cheat or, most importantly, steal.

Late—night worries on the streets of Lexington are begin-
ning to go further than avoiding police officers when carry-
ing open containers. .

At least we can now argue that no, we do not live in a
bubble.

A Word About Ethics...

Several recent issues concerning corrections, mistakes
and the omission of certain facts have brought the question
of journalistic ethics to the forefront at The Ring-tum Phi.
We have been considering the question of what, exactly, is
the journalist’s responsibility? To whom does the newspa-
per have to answer? How is a campus newspaper different
from a “regular,” or commercial, newspaper?

As a campus newspaper, more is expected of us in the area
of responsibility and ethics, but less is given to us in the realm
of remuneration. We are expected to be very careful of the
“feelings” of those about whom we write, but at the same
time, we are less well trained, monitored and paid than our
less emotional professional counterparts.

As hard as we at the Phi work to get our facts straight, and
to deal with our subjects fairly and objectively, sometimes
unavoidable errors appear. Some things which we could not
possibly have known or been expected to know have brought
us a great deal of stress and hurt feelings.

Though we have fewer resources available, a greater
standard of care is expected of us. Legally, we know that
nothing we have done or are likely to do has violated the First
Amendment in, the slightest. We are safe in this regard. But
we cannot be safe from the violent emotions of our readers;
the majority of which, ironically, are younger and less
mature, and thus, much more volatile, than the average
reader of commercial newspapers.

We have a high expectation of morality and careful
reporting at the Phi, and we do our utmost to fulﬁll it.
Unfortunately, it is not always possible to do so.

We can only hope that our readers will understand when
they are older and wiser...for now, we will continue to work
harder than you know to bring the news objectively.

Quote of the Week

“ Savage man would have flushed his own
toilet.”

--A W&L student discussing
infrared toilet ﬂushers

@112 may-mm lﬁhi

OPINION

J

Er/ll. ggilllrhlithithgci/lg/it

$oME KID
tum: A GUN
STOLE THEIR
INSTRUMENTS

\

The Ring-tum Phi, February 3, 1995

    

Republicans kiss ’96 election good-bye

THE FAR Mﬂ)DLE

ALEX CHRISTENSEN

Hmm...Mock Convention’s Spring
Kickoff is coming up soon...I wonder
who we could get to speak here for that
once-in four-years occasion. lt’d have
tobe someone with revolutionary ideas.
A Republican, of course. Maybe even
someone who has been willing tostand
up against momentary swells of popu-
lar opinion to try to actually exert his
leadership. I know what you’re think-
ing, and I agree it’s pretty obvious:
Barry Goldwater.

What? Oh, I know he doesn’t have
the inﬂuence to shape his party’s poli-
cies anymore, despite leading a con-
servative revolution in 1964 that was
the ideological as well as practical pre-

p cursor to the Reagan Revolution, such
as it was.

If he did have that kind of inﬂuence,
maybe the Republican Party could leave
out its infamous pledge to work for a
constitutional amendment to ban abor-
tion, since it has never been paid much
attention, anyway. Maybe there
wouldn’t be such a silly, pointless de-
bate about gays in the military and so-
called “special rights” for minority
groups, which are really just rights
denied by a majority unwilling to label
itself as bigoted.

But alas, those who claim to be
Goldwater’s ideological descendants
are not so much concerned with first
principles as with gaining power. So
Goldwater’s opinions have lost. their
weight among Republicans. But hey, if
we like the guy why not bring him in?

I am making this argument because
in many ways, it is just as pointless to
bring in Jack Kemp to speak at the
Kickoff as it would to bring in Barry
Goldwater. They, the two revolution-
aries who ﬁrst invented practical con-
servatism and who translated it for
Ronald Reagan, and then shaped it
again for a new era, have been aban-
doned by their party like so much bad
seafood. And so, Jack Kemp, weary of
ﬁghting the good ﬁght alone, has bowed

out of the '96 presidential race. Unfor-
tunately, this means he has also bowed
out of relevance in the near future of
the Republican Party.

But hey, as“a highly placed source”
asked the other day, why run for Presi-
dent when you can make $30,000 a pop

just threatening to run? This is face-
tious, of course, but the point is, there
is very little reason to have an irrel-
evant player in ’96 kickoff Mock Con-
vention. That is not to say that it’s
not a tragedy that he has been
made irrelevant.

Dick Cheney and Jack Kemp have
both been make irrelevant by their dec-
larations of non-candidacy. Cheney
would have been a sharp, competent,
competitive candidate for the Republi-
cans. Kemp would have been a leader
who would have been able to transcend
party and create a new Republican
majority. But you don’t get ahead in a
party by transcending it. Not these days.
These non-candidates can say they will
be engaged in the debate all they want,
but the reality in politics is, if you’re
not willing to put it on the line, your
part of the debate is over.

The fact of Kemp’s sudden plum-
met from the most popular candidate
among delegatesto the‘ 92 convention
to idiosyncratic oddity has not been
Kemp’s doing, but the result of an
ideological drift among Republicans,
not the right, but to the fringe. It's been
several years in conling.

And now we have a crop of candi-
dates largely composed of crass politi-
cians lined up to exploit that drift to the
fringe. They say they are pro-life; this
depends on how you define it. They
say they are for cutting government;
only a few have actual ideas to make
government smaller and more respon-
sive, something at which Bill Clinton
has actually made a ﬁne start. The say
they are conservative; in reality they
are moderate in the way only career
Washingtonians can be: it’s the mod-
eration of creeping bureaucracy.

Let’s take a look at the ﬁeld as
it stands:

°Fonner Vice President Dan “Wavy
Lays” Quayle: Please! Besides all that
(you know what 1 mean) we’ve had a

rocky history with vice presidents. Be-
sides Adams, Jefferson, and Teddy
Roosevelt, Van Buren, Coolidge,

- Lyndon Johnson, Nixon, and Bush ex-

emplify the vice-president elected presi-
dent. And those guys were smart...
°Senator Phil “Prairie Earthquake”
Gramm of Texas: Nixon with a South-
em accent? This megalomaniac is wast-
ing valuable PAC money to buy off all
of the preliminary straw polls so he can
look like a contender. Bereft of ideas
and appealing to the lowest common

°Senate Majority Leader Bob “Hey
I’m hip, l’m hip: Twenty-three skidoo”
Dole: Dole would be the oldest person
elected president for the first time. He
would be a Republican LBJ,
kicking...uh...teeth and taking names.
This might or might not e good for the
country in the long run, though Dole
trying to keep Gingrich in line would
be a modern political soap opera.

So with these somewhat dim pros-
pects, how can the Republicans win?
Clinton is really not doing what could

denominator, he becalledabad job,
describes himself . though it is
as “ugly”. You confused and
might add ‘ C often seems
“mean-spirited” directionless. The
and “shady.”  \only way the only way the Re-

°Commentator ' publican party can
Patrick “America Republlcan party win is to nominate

First!” Buchanan:
Protectionist and
isolationist, but
lovable. Sort of a

can win is to nomi-
nate someone who is
pro-choice, socially

someone who is
pro-choice, so-
cially moderate,
and fiscally con-

°‘Zr'.'.. .-.‘r’.‘.’.l£‘°“i "‘°d°"“‘e’ ‘W’ ﬂ" ‘§;’rlf"l-2°.‘ r§r'.“i§I.i
wi u I ,ou o ri ,

jousting at wind- Cally con‘servat"’e° the brightest
mills ina“cultural prospects: Gover-
war” that doesn’t nor William Weld
exist. Just as slick as Gramm, but with- of Massachusetts: This Republican has
out the folksy charm. rescued his state from high taxes, stag-

“Representative “B-1 ” Bob Doman
of California: A loser. Pat Buchanan
without the folksy charm.

-Govemor Pete“Green-Card Pedro”
Wilson: A leader of the Fascist wing of
the Republican party that Jack Kemp
tried to overcome by opposing the na-
tivist, big government, Proposition
187 (If you think illegal aliens are
annoying now, wait till they're illiter-
ate and tubercularl). Re-elected gover-
nor by promising to cut taxes in a state
that used to be able to offer higher
education to all high school graduates
—— before Pedro Wilson was governor.

°Former Governor and Education
Secretary Lamar “Who?” Alexander:
He tries to look cerebral and outsider-
ish, but a man who sat through his term
as Education Secretary quietly and only
now calls for the abolition of the De-
partment of Education is always sus-
pect. Panders to the fringe as well, but
in a nice way.

nant unemployment, and
overbudgeting. He is pro-choice, pro-
gressive, and fiscally brilliant. Weld is
probably the only Republican besides
Bob Dole who can win and make it
stick for more than the modern politi-
cal honeymoon of about a week.

There are others who ﬁt Weld’s
qualities: former Senator Paul Tsongas
of Massachusetts, a Democrat who
placed well in the Republican New
Hampshire primary in 92, former Rep-
resentative and Labor Secretary Lynn
Martin of Pennsylvania, and Governor
Christie Todd Whitman of New Jersey
all spring to mind, but they have less
fund-raising ability and less stable po-
litical bases from which to launch suc-
cessful campaigns. All would balance
a Weld ticket in ’96...if the Republi-
cans want to win.

All would be better choices to kick
off our Mock Convention than
Jack Kemp.

Deﬁcit spending overburdens future

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp _
Editorial Page Editor ......................................... . .Anne Alvord context ofthe time, the West was becoming increas- sacriﬁces forced on them may eventually drive
Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard ingly devoted to the ljbemj democratic regime, and future generations away from a liberal society.

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Scott Bookwaller   some academics had even predicted an end to When they no longer have control over a. gov-

Il~;eat'u:”es‘E}l:dit<‘)r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bunny Wong , ideological conﬂicts. The conﬂict was not to end so errlment budgeted decades before, the people

PlSSlS an eaélr-es iror . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dan Odenwald MELISSA   easily, however, as our economic problems esca- Will be driven to seek freedom  the debt .__.

lotography ditor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . ‘Bets-y Green ‘med in proportion ,0 our increasing sphere of inﬂu_ a debt for which they W1“ have received none; of

Editorial Carloonists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Alex Cl'IﬂSt¢llS¢n, “Ill Fllcklllgﬂ‘ - h- h 1- d h -I it ‘he benefigs and an of the costs_ Pgfhaps 

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Hewlett ence‘The pohcy uponw .'c were le so can y’o - - ~
Fourth grade was easy. Two plus two equaled four and borrowing from our children to pay for our own Will ﬁnd thc fehef thf‘-)' 5001‘ in 3 °°mm3hd
Business Manage, . _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , . _ _ _ , _ _ , , , , ' . , . _ _ ' , _ _ ' _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Ransom hm“ there were no such things as negative numbers. Now, re.tirements.and defense, fundamentally conflicts economy. 8 dIC::t03h}:3.d0§t:t|;°3::’l:l;);;ff‘2:_|2
Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke however} bemg 3 Polmcs malor has changed my whole wnhalzremlse ofhberahsm: asTh°'  . mle rk th I f ‘h
Advertising Manager .......................................... . . Frost Bush perspective about algebra. Two plus two equals approxi- mas Paine Wrote. “the <Il‘e3‘:_¢3_ﬂ haV° -  v'vi‘;" tn: ffmeﬁe
Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson mately enough to let you borrow six back. I thoughtl might no authority over t e lvlng or -—-—— ‘ ‘ —j— - _ '
Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias remind myself how to do pure algebra by also majoring in the unborn.” C3“ °°°"°mY °xP_°“°“F° ﬁ‘f°‘
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Stephen Williard economics, but as I watched Senator Phil Gramm (a In burdening future generations E - t hllﬂdfed Pelcem _'"ﬂ3“°“ h_k°
professional economist and presidential candidate) reply with the debt of a society too cow- _c0 n om 1 8 ,8 “!3“_)’ L35" Ameglca“ °°““m°5
The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at to questions about the deﬁcit, I realized that the purity of ardly to effect Social Security and point to today 3 did in the 19805. _ ,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The m,.3-run. phi our calculations is highly relative to the percentage of the Medicare reform, too dependent on college 8 tu_ "EC0ll(:l1’;lStSt pOlltl't‘et(}t0:l:lv);‘ s X
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee Vote that we seek its military for the international ln- C0 98° 5 U 3“ 3 as "5 0

dents as the
ﬁrst who will

will suffer from past deﬁcit

ﬂuence, and too inexorably caught _ _
spending patterns. As fnghten-

We have been toying around with potential balanced
up in a web of welfare politics, we

Publ" Bodl h 'd‘ db’ ,b '- ' . .
ications ar e ectst eexecutlvee itoran usiness manager utTheRmg tumPht budget amendmems In ‘his coumry for years’ and of late

is °"'°“"ise i"d°p°"d°"" our fervor in ursuin that end has culminated in the are rohibitin those generations ing 35 the Pl'°3P°°'5 Oflhis mall

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Republican c¢,',,,,a¢, gym, America and like promises, fromp exercisingg their freedom of 8uﬂ'€rﬁ‘Om be, Generation X will still have
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and '-My Nonetheless, the details of the proposals are still shaky; choice. They are forced to assume deﬁcit spend_ continued to enjoy_sorr_ie of the ,

. . . . . . . .. - - - -- f M; 1 [ beneﬁts ofthe pollcyinawa

Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advemslngdoes nobody can decide whose portion of the budget to balance responsibility or our c Ices, 68 ing patterns ma‘ will soon be im 5 mg
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observe, mm“. first. Understandably, no class, race, gender or age group allofthelrtenuous economy crumble ' P0 5| -

The United States has fought
the wars against hunger, Com-
munism, drugs, and immorality by borrowing

beneath them. They will no longer
have the option of cutting out so-
called pork programs, inefficiencies,

is willing to be the ﬁrst to refuse government handouts, and
the debates over controversial deficit spending have not yet
yielded a fully damning critique of its policies.

court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

7'" R"'3"“’" PM This policy of borrowing from the future to ﬁnance tax and counter-incentives. from the future. but We ¢8mI0t assumethal those
P05105106 BOX 899 cuts and entitlement spending of the past and present While the government certainly serves a useful in the future Will SUPPOT1 these Same Causes. ’
Lexington, Virginia became a standard aspect of each new budget after World purpose in providing a pump, a safety net for poten- Rather, we ‘must ﬁnd a Way to strengthen our

24450 ‘ War II. Initially, few questioned the policy because it tial disaster and despair, if you Will, the Well I5 5°¢'°‘)' Whlle llmmng 0*" debts ‘O Short ¢X°
seemed to be naturally derived from Keynesian economic slowly running dry. We are left in conflict, Selﬁsh‘! P305“ ‘mime: the 103'“ m“5‘ beslgned with W'-
Telephone (703) 462-4059 theory — theory that appeared to have helped to pull refusing to sacriﬁce ourselves, but knowing that in understandingthatrepaymentwillbeduewithin 7»
F""(7°3) 4624060 America through the Great Depression. ln the political doing so we demand our children sacriﬁce. The just a few years from their inception.

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 3, 1995

OPINION

PAGE 7

Instant wealth from your P.O. Box

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

I would like to state right now that I
am a winner. How do I know? I re-
ceived word in the mail this past week
from American Family Publishers. The
really big writing said: “Richard
Weaver. It’s Conﬁnned — You’re Our
New $10,000,000.00 Winner!” I didn’t
read the small writing, because, hey, if
it’s small writing, it must not be
very important.

Underneath the bulk rate stamp on
the outside of the envelope was a row
of stamps I could tear off to indicate
how I wanted to receive my payments.
I chose, naturally, 360 monthly pay-
ments of $27,777 each. Fancy Dress is
coming up soon and I want to hire my
own band to bring to the ball with me.
I also owe Columbia House
some money.

The funny thing is that I received
another letter from American Family
Publishers a few days later that said
that 1, Richard M’weaver (!), would be
receiving “ONE THOUSAND DOL-
LARS A DAY EVERY DAY FOR 30
YEARS — Right into the year 2025 to
be exact! You could sleep till noon
every day of the week and still draw
one of the biggest paychecks in the

entire State of Virginia.” Kind of
like the contractors who built
Fraternity Renaissance.

And then I got a big envelope from
Publishers Clearing House. I didn’t
read all of the stuff inside -— it looked
complicated — but I did see a form
where I could indicate what color Jag-
uar I wanted

tuce for salads, etc.. There will be a
plaster statue of me next to the salad
bar; diners can get more chick peas
from my hands.

Next item to buy: a helicopter to get
me from my apartment to class. l’ll
build a heliport on top of the library;
probably no one will notice. Military

helicopters from

them to send me. VMI Will 68001’! me
I’ve chosen  ' whenI’mairbome.
British l’llpaythe
Racing Green, ' , W&L Film Society

Now the Next item to buy. a to Show Richie
question arises helicopter to get me from Rich (starring
— What am I my apartment to class_ Macaullayj Culkipg

oing to do with o - every fl ay mg

fny guaranteed I ’ll build a heliport on ,,,,he T,0uba_
$20 million and top of the library; pr0b- dour Theatre.

a new Jaguar?
My first pur-
chase will prob-

ably no one will notice.
Military helicopters from

Next will come
the bribes. This re-
minds me of my

ably be to give VMI  escort me when highschool history
enough money , . b teacher, Mr.Stem.
to W&LthatI’ll I "1 0"’ 0" '19- Mr.Steinsaidifwe

be allowed to re-
name Letitia
Pate Evans Din-
ing Hall in honor of myself. Pasta Bar
and Wok Night will be replaced with
monthly “Deep Fryer Madness Daysz”
the menu will include deep fried veg-
etables covered in breading, cheese
and salt; deep fried chicken patties
covered in fried cheese; deep fried let-

wanted the answers
to a test that he, in-
deed, did have a
price. It was a new grey Mercedes
56OSEL. No questions asked. We’ll
just say that there’s a new British rac-
ing green Jaguar waiting for that spe-
cial professor who’d like to do some
“new math” in their gradebook.

And then there’s the matter of a new

LETTERS

career for myself. Forget broadcast jour-
nalism. I’m considering purchasing the
services of the less successful mem-
bers of the Jackson family and putting
the Jackson 5 back on tour, with myself
as lead singer. Though I’m not techni-
cally a part of the Jackson family,-I’ll
spend some of my money on sequins
from Wal-Mart, so I’ll fit in. Doug
Clark and the Hot Nuts will open for us
every night.

Every wealthy person needs an en-
tourage. I’m going to hire a personal
stenographer to take notes in my classes,
someone to cut in line for me at the Co-
op, someone to put cheese on my Stop-
In hot dogs, etc. My bodyguards will
pummel anyone who takes the last sau-

sage without telling the clerk to put

more on the rolling grill. In addition to
performing, Doug Clark and the Hot
Nuts will also have to follow me around.

Probably the most important thing
I’ll do with my money is plan my
upcoming Lee Chapel wedding to
Lynda Carter. I figure she's not been
doing much since she stopped being
Wonder Woman, and, hey, I’ve got
$20 million dollars. Something can
deﬁnitely be worked out.

I plan to be pretty charitable with
my money, too. I’ve already hired a
team of scientists to find a cure for the
chicken pox I gave my roommate. For
$20 million, I can be generous.

Donations needed for relief in Japan

To the editor:

Although the news of the recent earthquake in
Kobe, Japan, has moved off the front pages of the
newspapers, rescue work still continues, and complete
recovery and rebuilding, from all accounts, will

take years.

Donationﬁ to help the rebuilding may be mailed to

the following addresses:

°The American Red Cross has established a fund.
Please make your check out to the “American Red
Cross” and note “For the Japan Earthquake” on the
memo line. Mail them to : The American Red Cross,
P.O. Box 37243, Washington, D.C. 20013.

°Kobe Steel USA Inc. has contributed $25,000 and
invites donations. Founded in 1989, USS/Kobe Steel

Company is a Lorain,
between USX Corporation and Kobe Steel, Ltd.
There are 20 Kobe Steel USA Group companies, all
of which are supporting the relief effort. Contribu-
tions to this fund should be made payable to the
“Kobe Relief Fund” and addressed to: Lorain Na-
tional Bank, 457 Broadway, Lorain, Ohio 44052.

°The Japan Society has also established a fund to
aid victims of the disaster. Please make your check
payable to “Japan Society, Inc.” and indicate “Kobe
Earthquake Fund” on the memo line of the check.
Address: c/o Japan Society, Inc., 333 East 47th
Street, New York, NY 10017.

°Many churches have established funds forwhich
you may already have addresses. Contributions to
the Episcopal Church fund may be made out to “The

Ohio based joint venture

in Japan.

Presiding Bishop’s Fund for World Relief,” marked
“For Kobe,” and mail to: The Presiding Bishop’s
Fund for World Relief, 815 Second Avenue, New
York, NY 10017.

°The “Asahi Shimbun” (Asahi Newspaper) will
also channel funds to Japan. Please make your
check payable to “Asahi Shimbun International
Inc.” note that it is for the “Earthquake Rescue
Fund” and mail to: Asahi Shimbun International
Inc., 757 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017.

Donations to any of these groups will be for-
warded to the appropriate relief organization

Ann T. Rogers
Director, East Asian Studies

W&L Students unfriendly to Cadets

To the editor:

On Tuesday evening, a cadet friend
of mine needed to useLeybum Library;

The treatment he :received.tl'le'resl‘eft-=,

him feeling angry and humiliated.
When he politely asked some stu-

dents for help locating a book in a

strange library, some rudely refused,

some laughed and pointed, and one girl
actually ran away as if she thought he
would attack.

- ~ This« type of behavior really upsets

~ :me:~Cadet,s"hre no--differen‘t.than‘us. In

fact, many of them would fit in quite
well at W&L.

I heard the vicious rumors that cir-
culated about them when I was a fresh-

man, but I took the time to get to know
some cadets, and found out that they
are not all psychos or rapists. Would
fman like that?”" , . .
VMI's library is temporarily closed
for renovation, so we will most likely

be seeing more cadets at ours.
I hope that most students will

these students have treated a lost fresh-_

be polite, if not friendly, to
our neighbors.

To the students who treated my
friend” so poorly: I think that President

"I_.‘ee~wb”u'ld h‘av‘e been deeply ‘ashamed f,

of your behavior. I know I am.

Lisa Greenhouse
President, Preston Society

Landolphi ignores several important issues

To the editor:

Perhaps the saddest thing about Suzi
Landolphi’s presentation, “Hot, Sexy,
and Safer,” is that I sensed that she
genuinely believed that she was help-
ing her audience. Regrettably, how-
ever, her talk, due to several critical
omissions, was seriously ﬂawed.

While Landolphi did say that no
precaution was 100% effective, she
said nothing whatever about the extent
of the physical risks involved even in
protected sexual activity. When a chief
concern is the feared transmittal of a
deadly disease, it seems that the audi-
ence should be told, for example, ex-
actly what the failure rate for a condoms
is. Landolphi also said nothing about
the failure rate of contraceptives in

preventing pregnancy.

Landolphi presented a simplistic
vision of the emotional component of
sexual involvement. Based on her talk,
an undefined “love” plus consent ap-
pear to be the only relevant
criteria. I recall no mention of
genuine commitment.

There was no recognition that sex is
emotional dynamite and no discussion
of the point at which a person is ready
to handle sex emotionally. Landolphi
did acknowledge a right not to be sexu-

ally involved, but her program was '

hardly an encouragement to contem-
plation of this option by individual
students.

Landolphi several times ﬂatly as-
serted that sexual expression was “spiri-
tually” proper. She said not one word

about the sources of her view of spiri-
tuality. She said nothing about any
religious teachings pertaining to sex,
even though most of the students un-
doubtedly have some type of
religious heritage.

Landolphi stated that, while stu-
dents should feel free to engage in a
variety of sexual activities with one
another, they should wait before en-
gaging in sexual intercourse. Nothing
was said as to why they should wait, or
until when, or how. The latter omission
is ironic in view of Landolphi’s use of
“hot” in her title. She totally ignored
the fact that passions aroused by sexual
activity short of intercourse tend to
lead to intercourse itself. Given that
Landolphi is also in the business of
selling condoms (which she did dis-

Photos and Interviews
by Darcey Livingston

TALKBACK

 

close), I find her counsel of restraint
difficult to take seriously.

My position is not that
Landolphi’s presentation was com-
pletely without merit.

Herstrong condemnation of mixing
alcohol/drugs with sex was particu-
larly worthwhile. Still, the foregoing
omissions, together with the camival-
like atmosphere of the event, convince
me that the program as a whole was
more damaging than beneﬁcial. If W&L
believes that it has a responsibility to
foster meaningful discussions on is-
sues relating to student sexuality, Suzi
Landolphi’s talk failed to accomplish
this purpose.

Sam Calhoun
Professor of Law

Careers

There will be a Career Focus
Workshop on Tuesday, February 7,
at 4:00 p.m. in Room 109 of the
University Center. All students are
invited to attend

Interviews

CDPO will be conducted will be
conducting videotaped practice in-
terviews all day on Friday, Febru-
ary 3, in Room 109 of the Univer-
sity Center. Prior sign up is re-
quired. Sign-up in the CDPO.

Open Forum

There will be an open forum
with Dean of Students David L.
Howison to discuss delayed rush,
the alcohol policy, the drug policy,
Sophomore housing, and Choco-
late Pudding Wrestling, on Wednes-
day, February 8, at 7:00 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Barcelona

The next presentation of the
Washington and Lee Film Society
will be Barcelona, directed by Whit
Stillman. Screenings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, February 3, and
Saturday, February 4, in the
Troubador Cinema, at the corner of
Man and Henry Streets. As always,
there is no charge for admission.

Internships

There will be an Internship
Workshop on Wednesday. Febru-
ary 8, at 4:00 p.m. in Room 109 of
the University Center. All students
are invited.

Loans

The Student Loan Committee can
help students who are low on cash.
Call Paul Wright at 463-4360
for information.

Misprint causes dismay, 

. questions” of credibility

To the editor:

During my two and a half years at
Washington and Lee, I have been im-
pressed with the many improvements
and innovations The Ring-tum Phi has
adopted. However, there still exists a
problem which raises serious concerns
about the Phi ’s credibility: the careless
attitude adopted by the editing staff.
Last week I was dismayed to learn that
my interview in the “Talkback” sec-
tion was incorrectly written — not only
was the connotation erroneous, but the
words were not mine! Perhaps more
disturbing, the interview was altered
after it was submitted by the reporters.
How can the Phi be trusted when the
reporters are undermined by their own
staff? Unfortunately, this is not an iso-

kl . Iated incident: tales abound of students
being misrepresented by the Phi.’ At an ‘ "

institution where honor remains the
strongest tradition, I challenge the Phi

to implement better policies to ensure  '

trustworthy reports. With the capable

leadership exhibited by the executive I '7"
editor, I believe the Phi can meet this  ‘

higher standard.
Deborah Munson

Editorial Response:The Ring-tum Phi
apologizes for any confusion that may

have arisen from the misquote in 
Talkback last week We offer our as- ‘

surances that “Talkback” and every

other submission we receive is thor- ‘ “;

oughly edited and proofread When
possible, facts are checked against the
reporter ’s notes. This was possible with

“Talkback ” last week, and it was done.  "' '
The notes read as the publication did. ’ 2

Because the quote made sense, we had

no reason to believe it_was incorrect.  1

We have advised our reporters to make

sure their notes are correct, as to avoid _j. ;- .

any such confusion in the future.

Leyburn Library

Washington Break Hours I995

Friday, February IO
Close at 6:00 p.m.

Saturday, February II
Open 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.

Sunday, February I2

Closed
Monday - Friday, February I3-I7
Open 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Saturday, February I8
9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.

Sunday, February I9
Open at |2:00 p.m. and resume 24-hour schedule

If you had to choose a topic for The Ricki Lake Show,
what would it be?

 

Steve Frame, ’97, Stone Moun-
tain, GA—“Fat men in love with prom
queens.”

R.H. Powell, ’95, Virginia Beach,
VA—“Something with UFO's or
paranormal activity.”

 

 

Suzanne Sharp, ’96, Lafayette, CO, and Lucy Cavett, ’95, Roanoke,

VA—“A Brad Pitt, Mel Gibson, and Kevin Costner look-a-like contest!”

  

Q

Jennings Jones, ’95, Lascassas,
TN—“Transvestite nuns and their ille-
gitimate children.”

 

 

Kim Gartrell, ’96, Powder
Springs, GA—“A day in the life of a
Sesame Street Puppet.”

 

   

The Ring-tum Phi, February 3, 1995

(Wave heard that reading other campus publications
causes itchg rashes.)

  

Ke|ly’s Corner

On Rt. so (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington

“The tradition continues”

     
     
   
     
     
      
 
        

 
 

As Always, We Provide The Best
Service For The W&L Community

Open 7 Days 463-5452 Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

     

State Chairmen Applications
1996 Mock Republican

Convention

° Applications for State Committee
Chairrnanships will be posted outside
Carol Calkins Office in the

University Center Wed., Feb. 1st.

° Completed Applications are due no
later than Friday, Feb. 10th.

— Openings for:
» State Chairs
- Responsible for Executive Coordination of all State
Activities

— Research

—— Finance and Fundraising

— Parade

» Positions available for all 50 states and
the territories
— Other Positions to be chosen by the state chairs at a later
date:
» State Political Chairs
Responsible for coordinating extensive individual state
political research for the 1996 Republican votes of the
state.
' » State Treasurer
° Responsible for fundraising for your state. The
treasurer will also be responsible for coordinating the
budget of the state delegation.
» State Parade Chair
° Executive responsibility of the ﬂoat design and
execution of the state de1egation’s ﬂoat for the
parade.
» State Social Chair
° Responsible for coordinating social events of each
state delegation.
° Applicants need to complete the" application handbook, attach a current
resume, and sign up for an interview time.
— Questions? Call the Mock Convention office at 462-4057

 

 

SPRING
BREAK

CARA

    
     
     
 
   

HAIRSTYLIST & TANNERY

    

 
 

  

I‘-'1a|;I_1<>_us hgtsdoogs vg c_hir|‘i 99§1e§é, SHORTS

e ICIOUS san Wlc es . .

7-UP»A&W'g‘§a*:,‘;°,g§“§,;,°'°am5°“ SUNDRESSES The winter may be bleak, but the

Reg. Unleaded Gas 1 $1.069/gal. TANK TOPS rays are brighter than ever at
"'°ad:::r‘: l'_i$1h':29/9"" VALENTINES Marlene’s with our newly installed
$4.29/12pack-$98.50/case  tanning bulbs. Get your tan for
40 |b' ice - $439   I   
CHECK FOR OUR DAILY PRICES LOTS 0fSTuI_.1_. ‘I O ViSi1.S for 

"71-1» Stop by or call for an appointment.

25 N. Main St., Lexington 463-6003
H 
Valley  Men/Women cam up to_ $48

weekly assembling circui
‘ ‘boards/electronic componen
at home. Experience unnec
essary, will train. Immediat
openings your local area. Cal
1-602-680-7444 Ext. 102C

umowaaa STORES “'

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Sun. 1 — 5 p.m.

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
463-2186

E. Nelson St., Lexington

     
 
    
    
         
      

Letus
combine all
your debts into one
, easy-to- e pa ent.
Badci1:d1tnoprublem.Al.Lacceptedbasedonab lYl0PaY-
Fusr lieu» Is Just A Home tau. Anmrl
Caudaym.mght1_3g5—-537»-3517,(2n HR RECORDING)
for your FREE APPLlCA'l‘l0N or write :

. BOX 645. HOLLYWOOD. FL 33022

  

   
 

   

1 . L (Tl ‘Thur5—
Alvin-Dennis, Inc. day is
102 W. Washington St. ) Official
GET 1261490 FOR l W"
karaoke
F ﬂhlc 1} aaeee I W
- Tuxedos for Rent Come to
- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos For Sale ma UH-|_
- Fancy Cummberbund & Tie Sets V 4
J - Flasks V6V5'W
Also - Winter Clearance Sale in Progress i Cam”
and aim
VISA MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE l _
463-5383 With US.

PAGE 8

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 3, 1995  

Hatrlsteeter

Athletes of the  

  
  

   

  

  « MEANS LOW PRICES!

      

     
  

     

      

  Harris Teete

 M“ §‘.',';~,i‘:£t   .

   
    
 
 

 
   
 

   

       

    
  

      
  

 

   
     

, __ ram!" <    5  
        Ice 
... .. ,. , - 
‘ I.W|l"|M |||W;';;_“ _@':h' :4  
 .l||lIw— cfeam \_ 

.  Robert Hull Br Henderson
~’-‘ In-:  -

i'Z',’i '3'"

    

Go Watch them play

Men’s Basketball Men’s Swimming
February 4 =_—.==—_-==> Eastern Menonite February 4=====> Mary Washington

‘/ February 6 ====='==> Randolph Macon _

Harris Teeter . KeIlq%q’s_ Wresthng

Fr°z.en Orange ¢ Nut," ran‘ 29 Women’s Basketball February 12====> Virginia State Tourn.
»— Juice 12 oz Bars 194.,

V “’_ ' ‘—“— ' ' February 9 =======> Hollins
Indoor Track

5 d V ' '
e’ ' Womenss ing February 25====> ODAC Championship
’ February 4 =======> Mary Washington
February 10-12 ===> ODAC Championship
é?—""“—~§
ll 5;
ii.

is Vggeta Ies ‘ ’

tokclys   ' t
 14.25-
15.25 oz. .

C b I!’ '
rZ'.’n"5’t..".‘  ¢ ft’.-'éi»'}'""      79¢
r _, Soup_1o.75  Crackers_1£‘;z.

53.7 sq. ft. White Or Designer

     

    
   
  
  

    

   

maize WAYS to  
we emzt-H, CALL  

V800’ 

Advanced Design 5 pk, 20 oz, N33

~ Reach Qoke Or              
. Toothbrush Diet Coke         t   

X A 9 9 TG I F The /?ing—Ium Phi:
ct Catalog Outlet %[O 
' ' ' O C CI‘.
£99. Or With Bleach President’s Choice Just in time for 9
Surf 99 G.i_‘u’.E.E.N. Bath 79¢ . . B k  ~ ~ N  
 93.103 oz_  _154 sq_ ft    Positions availaéale monthly. BA
' J ' - - ' ' or BS required. l8,0()0~24,000
—‘c‘$Tﬁ?:'s‘.'Efll.‘L‘-’«’:'»‘c":»°":3/ o ‘E’?a‘é"E'l5"r‘§'é?$f° 2/ a9 Lal%Z,?";d&B$3§$i§‘L‘§’f»‘§§I;°‘§ﬁiﬁihﬁiiiiim tr /“:0”;  2::
- '. ' ' ' ' - , , , its. en resume, copy 0 i-
Napkins _14o ct. TISSUe___175 ct. Skirts, Dresses, & Jumpers   
A if Prices Effective Through Feb. 7, 1995 Come See! §;‘f;:'ef“"1i‘I§1f"(;‘f1f§§§_:;’f5°§;;
, '5Z2°.fw'2E'§§e’?5’§l?§l§3$3lﬁlféuZi%i?;i7rJol2’§%?d“{fB$§}Z§’vlZ9é’.§5ly33£pﬁ5§L§§l%§d‘§3§§s. 17 3- Mai" St 463-9730 “°"'S= M°"'5a‘ ‘°'5=3°  "“‘8m“"-'432"‘

 

  

Last Week:

BAsxi:TBAi.L- (M) lost to Guilford 75-70, Va. Wes. 73-72
(W) lost; to Catholic 47-43
SWIMMING- (W) def. Diskinson 116-87
(M) def. Dickinson 106-79
WRES1UNG- Individual Scores Only

PAGE 10

S

@112 ﬂing-mm iﬁlii

PORTS

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

This Week:

SWIMMING- (M&W) home vs. Mary Washington
BAsn:'i'nALL-(M) homen-Eastern Menonite,
Randolph Macon; at Lynchburg
(W) at Emory and Henry; vs. Hollins
WRES'I'LlNG- at Apprentice Invitational
INDOOR Tiutcir- (M) VMI Relays; (W) Dickinson Inv.

FEBRUARY 3, 1995

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

  
  
 
   
  
   
  

A long chapter in Washington
and Lee sports concludes this
week as Verne Canfield coaches
the final two home games of his
31 year career as head men’s
basketball coach.

The 8-11 Generals will take
the floor Saturday night versus
Eastern Mennonite in their con-
tinuing ﬁght for a spot in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference

Yet, with each added losing
year, the coach felt increasing
outside pressure to step down.

“It’s been a struggle. At times
I felt very isolated,” said Canﬁeld.

The pressure apparently
reached a climax last May when,
as Canﬁeld says, he was forced
to resign. He admits he wants to
continue coaching and would
have preferred to stay on at W&L
until he felt ready to move on.

“This is not the way to go. A
man should have the right to pick
his time.”

* Devilswere raj
as seventh. »

 : quires‘ surgery; 1

 Dynasty has £aIlen.oa;h

, emes. The,DeVi¥§ 
F in‘ thei"in,_te,rver1ing’i.v
— span; ,and.?'il?i11'

. locking *¥P’3$l
;.is-n0W,—sideIi,_

Vrecii :n=-mam
3 ‘ tionai doesnft coax;
- conference.stendin

—j  gjDespite. t,
 em, and the 

 

, ..Iniiddle,the

' go-tolead hat
Duke teamstlcff
There {is no
Bobby Hurley
i.aettner;‘Di%%1nyt
Johnny" Dawk ‘
current our
'wtiile‘ITraja/ii

“ t“:l1tt:a_:;vo'

 

. always had‘ histe

, to -perforrnﬂ

I miracle. Just. 
 tuclty; Connect ’

   

' éviniess in rtzén
_;Ace:.;::e.y   

4 have matured;
>D0n’t B6718

hasonty an cuts} ’
at making the NCAA
iiamcnt attizis 

    
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
  

Tournament.

Then on Monday, Canfield

will pace the Warner Center

bench for the 340th and final
time as W&L head coach.
“Next Monday, I’ll walk off
the ﬂoor with my head up,” said
Canﬁeld, the winningest coach
in Washington and Lee sports
history.

Adding to the drama, the Gen-
erals willbe meeting Randolph——
Macon College in the home-—
court finale. The Yellow Jackets
have beaten W&L 12 straight
times dating back to February 9,
1977.

The eighth——place Generals
wrap up the regular season with
three away games, the ﬁnal ob-
stacles on the road to their ﬁrst
ODAC Tournament berth since
1990-91.

It has been an odd time for a
coach that has averaged 15 wins
per year during his tenure. Eight
conference championship ban-
ners were raised in a 14 year span
that included four trips to the
Division III national tournament.

Canﬁeld’s 458 victories are
nearly half of the win total of the
program’s 87——year history.
W&L’s second—winningest
coach trails Canﬁeld by 369 wins.

The three-year playoff
drought is the longest any ODAC
team has suffered.

Emory and Henry head coach
BobJohnson remembers the pow-
erful Generals of the seventies
being a boost to the newly formed
ODAC.

“[Canﬁeld] gave the confer-
ence some credibility in the early
years,” Johnson said. “He’s been
highly respected _nationally, and
lended a level of class and re-
spect to the league.”

After taking three of the ﬁrst
four ODAC titles, W&L has
weathered 14 banner—less sea-
sons. The frustration has worn on
Canﬁeld in recent years. For a
man who suffered only four los-
ing seasons in his first 26 years at
W&L, four in a row has been a
difficult experience.

“I’ve worked through it,” he
said. “I think I’ve grown as a
person because of it.”

Johnson believes Canfield,
who he calls a mentor, has held
up well during a difﬁcult season.

“He’s maintained his dignity
and class, I think,” Johnson said.

Although Canfield will argue
that the time to step down had not
come, he leaves behind a legacy
few coaches can match.

When he arrived in 1964, the
UC-Santa Barbara graduate in-
herited a squad that had suffered
seven straight losing seasons.
W&Lwas 26 years removed from
the Blue Comets’, as they were
known, last Southern Conference
championship.

Since leaving the Southern
Conference five years before
Canﬁeld’s arrival, the Generals
totaled 29 wins. The new coach
had quite a task ahead.

“I’ve got to do more selling
than coaching this year,” Canﬁeld
told the Ring-tum Phi before
opening his first practice in 1964.

With a fast—break offense, a
pressing “goulash” defense, and
a Dixieland band to entertain the
crowd, the first—year coach
promised his team would sur-
prise, but did issue a warning.

“It’s going to take time,” he
told the Phi. “We’re not going to
end ten yearsoflosingovemight.”

W&L would wallow through
a 2-17 campaign that season,
but the real surprise came two
years later.

The 1966-67 Generals
marched to a 20—5 year and the
first of four College Athletic
Conference titles in five seasons.

That quick of a turnaround
meant a great deal to Canﬁeld.

“The players started believ-
ing in themselves,” said Canﬁeld.
“They even carried themselves
differently. You could see it in
their eyes.”

It was not the first time
Canﬁeld had turned around a los-
ing program. At Groveton High
School in Alexandria, VA, he
took over a team that had won
four games in two years. In his
six seasons before coming to
Lexington, Canfield’s teams
posted six consecutive winning
records.

The winning tradition contin-

Canﬁeld bids areel to arnr ntr

 

File Photo

Scenes like this will soon be only Warner Center memories as men’s head basketball coach Verne Canﬁeld
prepares to coach his last game in an arena that didn’t exist when he began his tenure. Canﬁeld will take
a sabbatical next year, but will remain as a tenured Physical Education instructor.

ued at W&L as the Generals
rolled to 13 straight winning sea-
sons. Along the way, W&L
picked up four CAC titles, a Vir-
ginia small college champion-
ship, a Virginia College Athletic
Association championship, and
two ODAC crowns.

W&L’s Doremus Gymna-
sium was as intimidating a place
for a visiting team as any. The
Generals dominated their home
games there and, later, at the
Warner Center.

Since the Warner Center’s
opening in 1971, the Generals
have won 70 percent of their
home games.

Even the season that finally
broke W&L’s run of winning
records brought a trophy to Lex-
ington.

The 1979--80 squad went
14———15,butwontheODACtour-
nament with victories over
Emory and Henry, Eastern Men-
nonite, and a last——second 58—
56 win at Hampden Sydney for
the championship.

Basketball suffers skid;
Men drop fourth in a row

By JosHuA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

Couzen and senior captain Mark Connelly led
the Generals with 17 points apiece. Dyer added 15

points, and Carter reached double figures again

with 11.

The Generals looked to break the three-game

In sports, a week is often a lifetime, and that is
certainly how the past week must seem to the men’s
basketball team as the Generals find themselves
caught in the throes of a four-game losing skid.

Just last Monday night, the Generals knocked
off Bridgewater to raise their record to 8-7. Since
then, it has been a story of heartbreaks and heart-
aches.

After last Wednesday’s crushing run—in with
Old Dominion Athletic Conference leader
Hampden-Sydney,the Generals traveled to Guilford
Saturday night.

The Generals trailed early and looked as though
they were folding when Guilford took a 14 point
lead in the second half. But in a repeat oftheireffort
against Bridgewater, the Generals came storming
back and took a 64-63 lead with 3:44 to play, after
back-to-back three-pointers from junior Derek
Carter.

Carter scored again from inside to put the Gen-
erals up by three, but this time it was not to be. The
Quakers came back to tie the game at 68 and sealed
the 75-70 victory with 7-8 shooting from the foul
line in the ﬁnal minute.

Carter led the Generals with 19 points. Sopho-
more Chris Couzen hit for 15 points, and junior
Cam Dyer added 13 points and 11 rebounds.

“We outplayed ‘them in the second half, but
we’re still learning what it takes to win and what
not to do in the last minute,” Head coach Verne
Canﬁeld commented.

Monday took W&Lto Bridgewater for a rematch
with the Eagles. This time the Generals couldn’t
repeat their late-game performance, falling 83-
72.

The Generals were down 38—37 at half time
and played competitively for most of the second
half, taking their ﬁnal lead 65-64 with 6:50 left on
a shot from downtown by Couzen.

The Eagles responded behind a game——high 33
points from Dan Rush to pull away in the ﬁnal five
minutes for the win.

hex Wednesday night as they returned to the Warner
Center with a four-game home winning streak to
face the Marlins of Virginia Wesleyan.

Things looked grim early as the Marlins took a
41-31 lead at the half, but the Generals executed
another second half tum-around to take a 58——54
lead late in the game, only to have the Marlins
manage to tie it at 58 and send the game into
overtime.

Junior Jon Coffman hit a pair of free throws to
give the Generals a 65—62 lead with 24.seoonds
left in the extra period. But the Marlins hit a three
to tie the game again at 65, and when Dyer’s shot
at the buzzer for the Generals fell short, the game
went, to a second OT.

The Generals led again 72—71 in the ﬁnal
minute of the second overtime, but W&L couldn’t
hold the lead again, as the Marlins’ Sean Blackwell
scored with nine seconds left and then blocked
Connelly’s shot to end the game in a 73--72
double OT heartbreaking loss.

Connelly led the Generals with a stellar 18
point, 18 rebound effort, and Dyer contributed 15
points and 13 rebounds.

Freshman forward Jimmy Schweer also tallied
13 points for the Generals.

The streak leaves the Generals reeling at 8-1 1,
4-9 in the ODAC.

They face Eastern Mennonite Saturday night in
the Warner Center, where they will look to break
out of the slump, and then take on Randolph-
Macon in their ﬁnal home game of the season, and
the ﬁnal home gameof head coach Verne Canﬁeld’s
illustrious 31-year career.

Every game for the Generals takes on added
importance as the ODAC tournament approaches.
The Generals are looking to make their ﬁrst ap-
pearance in the ODAC tournament since the 1989-
1990 campaign.

“The kids are continuing to play extremely
hard, sometimes not as intelligently as they should,
but that’s coming,” Canﬁeld forecasted.

“I have fonder feelings for
this squad than any other team I
have coached,” Canﬁeld said fol-
lowing the victory.

The Generals have advanced
to the ﬁnal game three times since
that season, but have come away
empty each time.

Their most recent trip came in
1988-89, when a group of sopho-
mores led the team to a 20-7
mark and a first——-place regular
season ﬁnish.

However, the following year
would be Canfield’s last trip to
the ODAC Tournament unless
the ’95 version can get there.

At whatever point the 1994-
95 season ends, W&L athletic
director Mike Walsh says a na-
tional search will officially be-
gin for the school’s ﬁrst new
basketball coach in three decades.
Walsh hopes for a decision by
April 1.

“We’ve received many inquir-
ies already,” said Walsh. “We
have 20 applications, though the
position is not officially open,

yet.”
Walsh believes that, despite
the distractions, the Generals will
ﬁnish up the season strong and
make a return trip to the ODAC
Tournament.

“I hope the team continues to
play well and the season ﬁnishes
on a good note for the players
and Coach Canﬁeld,” Walsh said.

Canfield has earned the
NCAA Division III Regional
Coach of the Year three times,
and garnered the ODAC’s
equivalent honor three times,
also.

He is planning a sabbatical
for next year, before returning as
a tenured physical education in-
structor.

Although he would like to
keep coaching and will listen to
offers, Canﬁeld says he also plans
four more years of running his
Lexington youth basketball
camps that he has operated for
over a quarter-century.

One thing he does not intend
to do next year is appear in the

Warner Center.

‘‘It won’t be the right thing to
do,” he said. “I want to see [the
players] mature, though, whether
I see it on the road or read about
it.”

At this point, Canﬁeld says he
has lost all bitterness over the
resignation. He says he has
“purged himself” of it because of
how it can consume a person.

One thing he does appear to
be bothered by, though, is the
pressure in society put on ath-
letes to win.

“It’s a shame there is so much
pressure to win. There’s got to be
something said forkidswho play
really har .”

The coach who has never
missed a game or a practice in 31
seasons believes he has done
more for his players than teach
them a game.

“This job has been special
because I touched some lives,”
Canﬁeld said. “My fondest hope
is that I taught something besides
basketball.”

Men win at Dickinson mid-
week matchup 106-7 9

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

It was not an ordinary week
for the Washington and Lee
men’s swim team, but the out-
come of it cannot be disputed.

After last Saturday’s meet
with Radford was snowed out,
the Generals were faced with a
midweek three and a half hour
road trip up I—81 to face
Dickinson College in Carlisle,
Pennsylvania.

Despite leaving several swim-
mers behind due to academic
conﬂicts, W&L still managed to
return to Lexington with a sur-
prisingly easy 106-79 triumph in
its pockets.

The victory raised the Gener-
als’ season mark to 5-1.

Sophomore Davis Reed led
the way for the Generals with
two of the team’s six event victo-
ries, and assisted in a third place
ﬁnish for the 400-medley relay
team.

Head coach Paige Remillard
expressed satisfaction with the
Generals’ performance 200 miles
away from home.

“We’re glad to swim a school
such as Dickinson,” Remillard

commented. “We’re very fortu-
nate that we got strong swims
from everyone.”

He added, however, that next
year’s Dickinson meet will be
held on a weekend.

Washington and Lee wasted
no time in the starting block, as
the Generals’ men put away the
Dickinson men early. This was
due in large part to the 400-med-
ley relay team of junior Craig
Sears, freshmen Jacob Garrett
and Erik Hollbrook, and Reed,
which touched the side in a time
of 3:54.70.

Reed captured his first indi-
vidual victory in the 1000-
freestyle in 10:52.62, with fresh-
man teammate Dari Gurnon ﬁn-
ishing second. Sophomore
Nathan Hottle got his name back
in the victory column after his
1:48.23 in the 200-free, and se-
nior John Rowe dashed off to a
strong time of 4:30.69 in win-
ning the 400-individual medley.

\Only .49 seconds separated
four Generals in the 100-buttcr-
ﬂy as W&Lcaptured the top four
spots. Junior Frank Braden won
in 56.35, and was trailed by
Ilolbrook’s 56.44, freshman
Robert Mayhew’s 56.82, and
Hottle’s 56.84.

The Generals placed the top
three in the 100-free, with junior
David Stillman paving the way
in 48.69, which gave them acom-
manding 93-32 lead in the meet.

Dickinson rallied late, but to
no avail. Reed’s second victory,
in the 100-breast with a log of
1:04.97, helped W&L secure the
win.

Next on the agenda is another
tough opponent in Mary Wash-
ington, who will pay a visit to
Twombly Pool on Saturday.

Since Mary Washington and
W&L are the only Division III
programs in Virginia, and intense
rivalry has formed between the
two schools.

“It will be a very difﬁcult
meet,” Remillard said. “It will
come down to the team which is
the most focused.”

Besides being a meet the Gen-
erals desperately want to win, it
will also prepare them for the
Southern States Championships
on February 17-19.

“We have fared well against
Division I programs in the past
and it will provide us with a chal-
lenge,” Remillard mentioned.

“But right now our focus is on
every individual getting the best
time of his life.”

Join the fun: write
forms /’h//

‘K

It

 

'l2IQD§§IQl)A\|D§

 
An Intercultural news supplement in honor of Black History Month

VOLUME 1, NO. 1

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA

FEBRUARY 3, 1995

3.   »

rdi Grs is more than a party

BY JACK THORN
Crossroads Staff Writer

For sixteen hours, I traveled
to get there. Well, actually that’s
how long it takes to get to Shreve-
port. It took another five hours to
get to the most talked about place in
the country during February.

My trip was stalled forty min-
utes because my tire blew out forty-
three miles outside of the city lim-
its. Suddenly, a man walked up to
offer his assistance. I wondered
from where he came. To my right,
there was a slimy ditch that led to
miles of swampland. To the left, I
could see nothing but my hand which
was barely three feet in front of me
and extended it to the kind man.
Before he left, he asked me one last
question. In a dialect I hadn’t heard
in months, he asked, “Are you go-
ing to New Orleans?” 1, with a
smile on my face, shook my head in
afﬁrmation.

The great spectacle I am re-
ferring to is Mardi Gras. And last
year the opportunity arose to go
during February break. The chance
only comes around every few years,
so I had to go,. Mardi Gras happens
to be one of the few times that
Northemers and Southerners, blacks
and whites, young and old party
without discrimination. Everyone

is too involved in having fun to hate.
However, this time for urbanization
is more than an excuse to drink
unlimited amounts of beer and con-
sume as many illegal drugs as you
can ﬁnd. Visitors and spectators
sometimes fail to remember that
Mardi Gras has deep religions and
seasonal significance for the people
of the Gulf Coast Region.

Depending ‘on the year,
Mardi Gras is a two-week celebra-
tion period before Lent. Mardi Gras
literally means “Fat Tuesday”, the
last day of the party season fol-
lowed by Ash Wednesday, the first
day of lent.

During the celebration pe-
riod, the streets overﬂow with ﬂoats
throwing beads, dublorms, cups, and
the like to a crowd that reaches into
the millions. You have Brouchers,
Endymion, Rex , and the Zulu
Krewes, to name a few, that annu-
ally masquerade themselves and
open the doors to their secret societ-
ies to the patrons of New Orleans.
Each of the Krewes have a ball
where the elite of the city come out
and display their wild sides. I
couldn’t begin to count how many
ﬂoats I saw. People pushing and
shoving, stretching their ﬁngertips
to the end to grab a plastic bead
necklace.

The first alleged Mardi Gras

occurred in 1705 at Fort Loris de la
Louisiana.

The soldiers and settlers at the
fort celebrated by eating, drinking,
dancing, and singing. Some wore
masks and painted their faces red to
show their festive souls. It was
almost six years later that the first
parade was incorporated to the car-
nival.

By 1718, Mardi Gras moved
to the present-day market squares in
New Orleans by order of Bienville.
The eighteenth century wasn’t com-
plete before the population of New
Orleans doubled. Remarkably, the
population was made up of nearly
60% Blacks. More free blacks were
migrating to the cities and towns
where the social life was less re-

..strictive and economic opportuni-

ties were greater.

Behind the mask, a person ’s
race couldn’t be distinguished.
Slaves, free blacks (light-complex-
ion and dark) and whites took the
Mardi Gras season as a time to over-
look social differences.

The social tension during
Mardi Gras always seems to de-
crease. Even today, blacks and
whites parade down the streets arm
in arm, laughing to an old tradition.

The festive masks and party
antics are the contributions of blacks
from Louisiana, Cuba, Trinidad, and

other Caribbean countries. Blacks
added a new ﬂair to the parade sur-
rounded by the Zulu Krewe. The
Zulus perform first on “Fat Tues-
day.” They stroll down Bourbon
Street black-freed and adorned in
wigs, grass skirts, and umbrellas.
The members of the group try to
perform traditional African songs
and dances. Mardi Gras day isn’t
the only day this Krewe comes out
from hiding. They perform through-
out the year to benefit blacks in the
area.

So for all you party goers,
take the time to go down to the
richest cultural event the south has
to offer.

Taste the food and listen to the
music of a world few think of yearly.
We Louisianaians are more than
welcome to invite you to our back-
yard and dance and party without
letting the music die.

Stores, restaurants and bars
open their doors without closing
early for three weeks to insure that
the temporary residents of New
Orleans can enjoy their stay in the
land of carnival.

Don’t forget your cigars, bal-
loons, and party hats and maybe 1,
Jack Wesley 'I'horn, will see you
dancing the jig in the middle of
Bourbon Street, letting the good
times roll.

PEG 2

CIDSSIDEUS

Women's Lib is still an issue

BY PAULA Er-1-"us
Crossroads Staff Writer

The following excerpt from a
1950’s vintage home economics
textbook was obtained off the
Internet and posted on a bulletin
board in the law school. According
to the sender, “The page this text
was lifted from featrues a picture of
a ‘June Cleaver’ type-of-gal unload-
ing a full oven of food. Of course,
she is in a dress, apron, and has a
huge smile.”

“Have dinner ready: Plan
ahead, even the night before, to have
a delicious meal—on time. This is a
way of letting him know that you
have been thinking about him and
are concerned about his needs. Most
men are hungry when they come
home and the prospects of a good
meal are part of the warm welcome
needed.

Prepare yourself 2 Take 15 min-
utes to rest so you will be refreshed
when he arrives. Touch up your
makeup, put a ribbon in your hair
and be fresh looking. He has just
been with a lot of work-weary
people. Be a little gay and a little
more interesting. His boring day
may need a lift.

Clear away the clutter: Make
one last trip through the main part of
the house just before your husband
arrives, gathering up school books,
toys, paper, etc. Then run a dust
cloth over the tables. Your husband
will feel he has reached a haven of
rest and order, and it will give you a
lift, too.,

Prepare the children: Take a
few minutes to wash the children’s
hands and faces (if they are small),
comb their hair, and if necessary,
change their clothes. They are little
treasures and he would like to see
them playing the part.

Minimize all noise: At the time
of his arrival, eliminate all noise of
washer, dryer, dishwasher or
vacuum. Try to encourage the chil-
dren to be quiet. Be happy to see
him. Greet him with a warm smile
and be glad to see him.

Some don’ts: Don’t greet him
with problems or complaints. Don’t
complain if he’s late for dinner.
Count this as minor compared with
what he might have gone through
that day.

Make him comfortable: Have
him lean back in a comfortable chair
or suggest he lie down in the bed-
room. Have a cool or warm drink
ready for him. Arrange his pillow
and offer to take off his shoes. Speak
in a low, soft, soothing and pleasant
voice. Allow him to relax and un-
wind.

Listen to him:

You may have a
dozen things to tell
him, but the mo-
ment of his arrival
is not the time. Let
him talk first.

Make the
evening his: Never
complain if he
does not take you
out to dinner or
other places of en-
tertainment. In-
stead, try to under-
stand his world of
strain and pres-
sure, his need to
be home and re-
lax.

The goal: Try
to make your home
a place of peace
and order where your husband can
renew himself in body
and spirit.”

In the backlash against “politi-
cal correctness,” I have been told by
a few individuals——men, women,
and members of Congress (via the
media)—that we need to return to
the “family values’’ the 1950’s rep-
resented. Whether you respond to
the “family values” with disgust,
outrage, wistful sentimentality,
laughter, or the thought “scary” (as
was written on the bulletin board
next to the article), by now it should
be clear that as a society, WE CAN-
NOT GO BACK!

The women’s movement has
been condemned by some as the

source of nearly every social ill the
country currently faces. The con-

servative elite claim that the sky-
rocketing rates of illegitimacy, abor-
tion, teenage pregnacy, and divorce
directly result from the fact that
more women have left the world of
home and entered the world of work
(and home). The radical feminist
elite feel that women who choose to
stay home, taking care of the house
and children, are somehow contrib-
uting less than their share to society.
They claim that men are still “bad”
and women are
“ g o o d ” ;
whether you sit
or stand to pee
d e t e r m i n e s
one’s value in
the community.
Somehow in the
middle of this
political rheto-
ric, the real
value of the
women’s move-
ment has been

missed.
Thebegin-
nin g of the
women’s move-
ment is com-
monly marked
as 1963, when
Betty Freidan
published The
Feminine Mys-
tique. Although Ms. Friedan, Gloria
Steinam, and others pushed the en-
velope on sexual and gender equal-
ity, women throughtout history have
made tremendous contributions in
every field. Afew examples: Harriet
Beecher Stowe writing Uncle T om ’s
Cabin just before the Civil War;
Rosa Parks refusing to give up her
seat on the bus, sparking the Civil
Rights Movement; Susan B. An-
thony leading the fight for voting
rights; Amelia Earhart crossing the
Atlantic Ocean; Margaret Sanger
heading the Planned Parenthood
Foundation, after combatting the ini-
tial hostility of the medical profes-
sion (in the 1920’s) to birth control;
Jane Addams winning the Nobel

Prize for peace in 1931. What’s
important is not knowing these in-
dividuals and their accomplish-
ments, but rather what they repre-
sent—a refusal to be pigeonholed
by societal expectations and limita-
tions. The lesson to be learned from
these examples is that each of us has
the capacity to drastically affect our
community.AsMargaret Mead said,
“Never doubt that a small group of
thoughtful, committed citizens can
change the world. Indeed, it’s the
only thing that ever has.” The
Dictionary ofCulturalLiteracy de-
fines the women’s movement as
one “to secure legal, economic, and
social equality for women.” At the
beginning of 1995, most of the resi-
due of the previous generation’s
thinking—that equality means be-
ing just like a man, in everything
from the way we dress to our atti-
tudes toward sex and relationships——
seem to be fading. What our genera-
tion has yet to do, however, is to
define equality for ourselves.

I must admit that when doing
this article was suggested to me, I
hesitated because 17m not sure where
I fit on the spectrum of possible
labels. At the same time, however, I
think I am representative in some
ways of most women.

I believe that the true of the

women’s movement comes from
increasing the choices available to
both men and women, without judg-
ing those choices.
Whatever combination of career,
marriage and/or family an individual
chooses, it is the “right” choice, so
long as the decision is made by the
individual, in his or her own best
interest, without any outside soci-
etal pressure determining the path
to be taken.

Artificial barriers, regardless
of what stereotypes and prejudices
create them, disadvantages us all in
the long run.

We must become educated,
and offer our knowledge to others;
our genius for sitting idly, watching
injustice and prejudice fester be-
cause “it’s not my problem” could
also be our great destruction.

CIDSSIDBUS

Guinier on the majority.

BY NOVA CLARKE
Crossroads Staff Writer

Unfortunately a campaign
begun by right-wingers and carried
through by moderates in Congress.
Ended Guinier’s chances for con-

In 1993, president Clinton ﬁrmation and eventually led to the
nominated Lani Guinier to be Assiss withdrawal of the nomination. This

tant Attorney General for
Civil Rights at the Justice
Department. She ap-
peared to be the perfect '
candidate. Guinier was
an African-American
woman, a former Justice ;
Department official with '
an excellent record and she
had been a litigate with
the NAACP Legal De-
fense Education Fund. Ev-
erything seemed to be on

track for her nomination. She was a

 Guinier

campaign was based on I

a misunderstanding of
Guinier’s position on
the rule of the majority.
As the right-wingers
explained it, Guinier
writes in the tradition
of the anti federalists.
Her goal not to under-
mine democracy but to
protect people from’ the

1ty’.
In an article in the National

respected scholar, had a lot of expe-  (SPﬁn8 1993)stiﬂ°da

rience, and no skeletons in her closet.

eWomen leaders, take charge

. given $1400 by the Executive Com-

BY CATHERINE IAWRENCE
Crossroads Staff Writer

Already hard at work with
different events, Washington &
Lee’s newest female organization,
Women & Leadership, co-
sponsored Helen Thomas‘ speaking
in Lee Chapel last Tuesday night
and held a yogurt and coffee social
last month. And this is only the
beginning.

The organization wanted to
bring the freshmen back together
after women’s rush. The reception
for the social included a perfor-
mance by the Jubilee singing group.

Women & Leadership came
together last year when several
underclass women were invited to a
dinner for law school women stu-
dents and faculty. The underclass
women thought the dinner was so
rewarding that they hosted their own.

“We wanted to bring women
who are interested in improving their
leadership skills together to share
ideas,” said junior Karly Jennings,

“Second Proms and Second Prima-

one of the group’s members.

Just before Spring Tenn last
year 120 underclass women and sev-
eral female faculty members met
for dinner. The dinner was spon-
sored by the deans’ offices and or-
ganized by Jennings and several
Women’s Forum members.

The role
of women at

‘tyranny of the major-

ries: The Limits of Majority Rule,"
Guinier outlines her arguments for
proportional rather than majority
based voting. She cites the case of
Whitﬁeld. etal. v. StateDemocratic
Party. This case from Arkansas
illustrates the problems of majority
rule. Phillips County is a rural area,
and the majority of its residents are
black; however, the majority of
voters are white. In primaries, a
candidate is required to get a major-
ity to win. If there are two white
candidates and one black candidate.
Even if the black candidate receives
a plurality of the vote, he is required
to participate in a run-off with the
person with the second highest num-
ber of votes. Whoever gets the
majority in this case is the winner

See GUINIER , page 9

Page 3

Tea with Helen
Thomas

BY LAKEISHA Townes
Crossroads Staff Writer

A mixture of charm, grace,
and intellect sprinkled with a whole

' » lot of wit and topped with unforget-

mittee just before Christmas break.
Associate Dean of Students
Anne Schroer-Lamont and Mich-
elle Richardson, Student Activities
Coordinator, are helping the group
get a strong start on campus.
Jennings said group mem-
bers Missy
Curtis and

W&L and their
place as leaders
on campus was
the main topic.
T h e
group has grown
to about 60 mem-

other. ”

“It is a great way
for W&L women to
get to know each

Carol Pierce

Christina
Petrides

a newsletter
for campus
w o m e n .
Women &

bers in the past‘
year, a minority
of which are campus leaders.

“It is a great way for W&L
women to get to know each other,”
senior Carol Pierce, a group orga-
nizer, said. . ‘

Pierce said she sees Women
& Leadership as a special events
group that brings all campus
women’s groups like Panhellenic
and Women’s Forum together.

Women & Leadership was

Leadership is
also plan-
ning a Women’s Alumni Directory,
which will make it easier for
seniors to talk to women alumni.

In the next couple of months,
the group has several activities
planned.

On February 28, Women &
Leadership will host a dinner in the
D-hall with faculty and students,
and a Skylark Retreat is planned in
March.

are publishing’

table experiences - that’s what Helen
Thomas presented at the tea and
discussion held in her honor last
Tuesday. V

The tea, sponsored by
Women & Leadership, was an in-
formal question and answer period
with the White House Correspon-
dent.

Giving insights on every-
thing from former presidents and
their times in office to the plight of
women today and discrimination,
Helen Thomas provided only a look
at what was instore for her evening
lecture in Lee Chapel.

She highlighted several
presidencies she once covered as a
part of the Washington Press Corps
and entertained with her own edito-
rialized additions.

All in all, the day with Helen
Thomas was a valuable learning
experience.

Lanl Gulnler
"Don't Ask, Dorrt Tell":
CM! Rights
Thursday, Feb. 24

7171"
LEE 013%’

riassroaas

Page 4

Learn from a Butterﬂy

BY KANDICE DURDEN
Crossroads Staff Writer

butterﬂy
in cocoon

sunshine beaming
heat thrusting, pulsating
sensation
butterﬂy awakens
shifts in his cradle
yearning for the light
L beckoning and calling
imminent light

butterﬂy free,
emerge in the light.

I wrote this poem to symbolize
yearning for a passion. Any passion
that drives you through physical
and mental struggle. A passion’s
empowerment so strong that you
take up the struggle for it made you
what you are—B1ack butterﬂy. It is
the struggle that made you stronger
and gave you the inspiration to per-
severe. Black butterﬂy free. And
freedom prevails at what cost? You
lose your old self, the inching cater-
pillar and become a butterﬂy whose
boundaries are unlimited.
Through the struggle limi-

tations are to be broken. You are a
beacon of determination. You, like
the caterpillar, are transfonned into
something more wonderful. It was
Frederick Douglass who said it
best, “Without struggle there is no
progress.”

This progress is exempli-
fied by African American artists.
Edward Mitchell Bannister
struggled to overcome the claim
that “while the Negro may harbor
an appreciation of art, he is unable
to produce it.” This statement em-
powered him and the struggle pur-
sued. It was this inspiration that
gave him determination and made

him the great artist he became. Like .

the figure inApproaching Storm, he
is not “overwhelmed by the forces
of nature.”

I agree with Henry Tanner
that race can be “a ghetto of isola-
tion and neglect,” but only if you let
it. Like the butterﬂy who forces the
walls of the cocoon to break away
so that he may become his true self,
African-Americans must exude de-
termination and break the bound-
aries set by racism and prejudice.
You must follow with the same at-

titude and perseverance of these Af-
rican-American artists. You must
not be overwhelmed. In keeping with
Tanner’s motto, you must “get it,
get it better or
get it worse.”
What you be-
come and
your great-
ness do not
rely upon
where you are
from orwhere
you go. It is
not Africa,
America or
Europe.‘ It is
what you
choose to
\ makeofyour-
self, how you
choose to ex-
cel and
achieve. And it is what you do for
yourself that speaks for others. The
\ artists we studied were fulfilling
personal goals. It is their personal
achievements that we celebrate, not
what they did for someone else, but
themselves. It is their accomplish-
ments despite obstacles that make

"Banjo Lesson" by Henry Owassa Tanner

them great. g
Yes, there are obstacles, but

it is up to you to decide not to be ‘

overcome. You must become a bea-
con of faith, faith
in yourself and
your abilities. You
cannot become
impeded by the
opinions of the
next man. What
counts is what you
think of yourself
and what you do
to make yourself
worthy of respect.
Life is not fair but
there is no excuse
to giving in to it.
Your will must su-
persede that which
strives to oppress
you.

You must not lose the
struggle and wastefully live the life
God gave you. It is not a matter of
choice. It is your destiny to succeed.

The walls of the cocoon were
made to be broken. Black butterﬂy,
spread your wings~—emerge into the
light.

If you haven't seen it, Go see it

FROM THE COCHRAN L
COLLECTION

JANUARY 10 —MARCH 3, 1995 ,

"(HIE Qlft Offﬂfl <ﬂfl2|Cf|Il-<ﬂMtD|Cﬂr| <ﬂl2T|ST“
By Mildred Thompson

Wednesday, February 8, 5:30 p.m.

Reception Following

duPont Gallery

CIDSSIDMS

P3995

I too sing Arnerica

BY Ronanr T/m.on
Crossroads Staff Writer

Why should there be
a black history month? All
that stuff’s in the past and
has no real place in modern
sociey. And if blacks are a
minority in American so-
ciety, why should there be
a whole month dedicated to
that race? And finally, why
be so open about black his-
tory month? It’s fine if
blacks celebrate within their
race, but why involve the
whole world or even the
whole nation for that mat-
ter when not every one is
black and not every one
cares about black history?

Well, the answers to

those questions can be
summed up in one very
simple word that every one
knows but few wish to ad-
mit they possess: ignorance.
Ignorance continues to dis-
rupt harmony both within
the race and between the
races. It causes one to ac-
cept, without questioning,
what is told to them, by ru-
mor or otherwise. Igno-
rance makes us fail miser-
ably where we might other-
wise succeed. It can darken
an otherwise bright future.
So let’s not be ignorant; let’s
learn. This February, let us
learn about that which we
know so little. We can no
longer afford to let igno-

about something so impor-
tant and so crucial as how
we feel about another per-
son or a whole race of
people. We can no longer
rely on the news and other
sources of biased media to
paint us a picure of an evil
and greedy black America,
just because we lack the
initative to find out the real
story and to get a glimpse of
what the real black person
has been doing, is doing,
and will do. We can longer
rely on the bigoted propa-
ganda of riotous, divisive
hate groups who incite.
What’s more, we can’t al-
low the visionary dream of
a black man to go fruitlessly
down the drain.

So to answer why
there should be black his-
tory month, it’s resound-
ingly obvious that it is now
more than ever that the ig-
norance of black history
must be challenged. And
it’s now more than ever that
every one, of all races, must
participate in black history
month; ignorance, like
death itself, is never selec-
tive. But if we engage in
the struggle together, we’ll
see that the success we
achieve against it is not se-
lective either.

Then maybe we ’1l see ’

all races as equal, Ameri-
cans with hopes and ambi-
tions as real as the Ameri-

can dream itself.

rance guide our decisions

Reﬂections on Black History Month

BY MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Crossroads Staff Writer

I look back and wonder how we got over. Images of Africans
chained together in slave ships as the stink of death ﬂoats in the air.

The Middle Passage. Sixty million and more, said Toni
Morrison in her novel, Beloved. Those who made it landed in a land
unfamiliar to them. Questions rambled through their brains.

“Why are we here and why did they bring us here? Who are
these strange pale people.”

I’m reminded of Kunte Kinte when he arrived in America,
looking at these tuobab, or white people. In Roots, Alex Haley took
Kinte’s experiences to represent the struggles and the pain of the
black experience in America, from past to present time.

Four hundred years of struggling to become educated, to
succeed, to progress. This is why we celebrate Black History. This
is why we remember.

We remember the slaves who picked cotton and sweated in
a strange land, trying to figure out their place in a culture alien to
theirs.

Remembering Frederick Douglas who learned to read at a
time when an educated black man was a threat, a time when a black
would be punished if he dared to free his mind.

Slaveowners knew once a slave learned to read, he learned
the broader possibilities of his life.

We remember all of them, from Fannie Lou Hamer to Mary
McLeod Bethune to George Washington Carver to Marcus Garvey
to Malcolm X to Martin Luther King, Jr.. Yet, listing names
isn’t what black history is about. Black history emcompasses more
than that. Black history is my grandmother who worked wherever
and whenever to give my mother and my aunt a better life than she

had. Black history is all the black women who graduated
from historically black colleges such as Fisk but were forced to mop
ﬂoors and clean kitchens to put their children through school. Black
history is black men lynched but like Claude McKay “pressed to the
wall yet fighting back.”

That’s what black history is about. Despite slavery, Jim
Crow, lynching, or whatever obstacle, black people have surpassed,
overcome and succeeded.

The accomplishments of Daniel Hale Williams and M. J .
Walker and my hometown heroine, Maggie L. Walker speak of the
strength and the endurance of black Americans.

The soulful stirrings of jazz, blues and rap have enriched
American culture. The names of James Baldwin, Zora Neale
Hurston, Phillis Wheatley, and Ralph Ellison have taught us about
the complexities of black culture.

But more importantly, black history teaches us that these
things are possible. When I think back on my history and the
struggles I must go through as a black student on a predominantly
white college, I realize that my sojourn is a joke compared to what
my ancestors experienced.

I begin to appreciate the sacrifices they made so that I could
partake of this opportunity to expand my mind and to better myself.
It strengthens us and sustains us in the face of what seems to be
overwhelming odds.

It tells us that despite everything, we can achieve anything
through faith and determination. It gives us reason to achieve and
contribute to society.

So this month and every month afterward celebrate black
history. Not to memorize a bunch of meaningless names, but to
think about their contributions and their struggles. And how these
things relate to our life and our struggles.

CFOSSTOBUS

Brazil is not the only place
Carnival is celebrated.

"Carnival is celebrated throughout
the Islands. It's a two week long
party."

-- Nejma Petit '98, Palm Harbor,
Fl (Trinidad, West India)

Children get money for New
Year's.

"Parent's give their children red
packets filled with money [to
symbolize wealth] because they
want them to have money through-
out the year."

-—Rita Yeung , Lam Tin , Hong Kong _

International overvievv

BY MELBA MERRITT
Crossroads Staff Writer

Aside from attracting top
students from all across America
due impart to its prestige of being
ranked one of the best liberal arts
schools in the country, Washington
& Lee has also attracted a number of
students from foreign countries. As
a matter of fact there are approxi-
mately 60 students on this campus
who have some sort of international
background. This group includes
exchange students, here for one year
and no more than two years and
students here for four years. Such a
vast array of cultural backgrounds

should be an invitation to learn more

live in America and who does not

about a different culture that could
be vital to your line of work simply
by taking the time to get to know
them.

In fact odds are that you will
encounter someone who does not

live as Americans do in the work-
place.

Exchange students come
every year from Rikkyo University
and Kan Sai Gai Dai University in
Japan, which are two universities

that Washington and Lee has an
exchange program with. '

Some are majoring in stud-
ies that deal with America such as
American literature and others come
here to have a different experience
and learn about American culture
first hand. This year there are ex-
change students from China and
Moscow and a German student at
the law school. International Teach-
ing Assistants also attend W&L for
a year. They are short term employ-
ees who assist in teaching various
classes and also have the option to
take classes.

See INTERNATIONAL page 9

Divergent paths in our future

BY TIM Soorr
Crossroads Staff Writer

The National Black Lead-
ership Conference has become
as much a hallmark of the New
Year as fireworks and confetti.
This past Ianuary 8th members
of W8LL’s Minority Student As-
sociation, along with three ad-
ministrators, joined over one
thousand participants from a
myriad of higher education in-
stitutions across the nation in
the Ninth Annual NBSLD Con-
ference at the College of Will-
iam St Mary in Williamsburg,
Virginia.

The three day confer-
ence, entitled “ Divergent Paths:
Who shall Determine our Lead-

ers and Who Shall Chart our
Course? A Wake—Up Call”, con-
sisted of speeches and work-
shops on various topics ranging
from networking, graduate
school, and self—esteem to chal-
lenging racism, mentoring pro-
grams, and multiculturalism.
Freshman Nejma Petit attended
a workshop entitled “The Role
of Black Women in Society.”

“I left [the workshop]
feeling very inspired,” said Petit,
“I now have a greater sense of
what my purpose is on this
campus.”

The conference was
kicked off by motivational
speaker and talk show host Les
Brown, whose dynamic mes-

sage was to set your goals high
and perservere in pursuit of
them.

Student Activities Coor-
dinator Michelle Richardson
was particularly motivated by
Brown's statement, “someone
else's opinion of you does not
have to become your reality.”

“ The universal appeal of
the message was particularly
memorable for me," said
Richardson.

Dr. Dennis Kimbro, au-
thor and educator, rivaled Mr.
Brown for the honor of most
captivating speaker with his
speech, “Blueprints for Success."

Kimbro urged the stu-
dents to ignore the distance

between where one is and where
one wants to be.

The conference also fea-
tured speeches by talk show
host Bertice Berry, Newsweek
contributing editor Ellis Cose,
and USA Today columnist Dr.
Barbara Reynolds.

In additon to the winter
conference, the College of Wil-
liam 8:: Mary sponsors a more
intense program during the
summer which resembles the
three—day weekend. Each year
schools are invited to nominate
one student leader to attend the
Black Student Leadership

Insitute. The university spon-
sors the student if the Insti-
tute accepts that nominee.

Cmssraads

P396 7

].\/Iy Visit to the King Center

BY LAKEISHA Towmas
Crossroads Staff Writer

Interviewing for a job
was the only thing on my
mind when I went to At-
lanta in early January. Sure,
I’d take in a few sights, find
out what the city was like,
and concentrate on that one
thing alone. But then I did
something I hadn’t planned
to do - I Visited the Martin
Luther King, Jr. Center for
Nonviolent Social Change
in downtown Atlanta. I got
more than I expected.

Yes, I’d heard about
the Center and yes, I thought
it would be nice to Visit.
And I was prepared to be
historically enlightened.
That I expected. What I did
not expect was the emo-
tional reaction I later fought
hard to contain.

Walking outdoors at
the Center filled me with a
sense of awe - seeing the

eternal ﬂame that burned in
Dr. King’s memory, as well
as his tomb and the reﬂect-
ing pool that surrounded it.

Then I walked indoors.
“A Letter for Bir-
mingham Jai1”was playing
from a screen. I was moved
listening to the words. I
then walked further into the

Center and saw his legacy.
Pictures of Dr. King speak-
ing with dignitaries and
presidents, of him giving

Photo by Lakeisha Townes

speeches and sermons, and
of him standing with such
key civil rights’ figures as
Ralph Abernathy and Jesse
Jackson. I turned the cor-
ner to see a picture of

Coretta Scott King clinging
to both her children’s and
Ralph Abernathy’s hands
after her husband’s death. I
saw the pain on her face;
the agonizing look of a
struggle she’d only begun
to fight. Behind the sad-
ness and pain lurked an in-
ner strength. I felt tears
come to my eyes.

Moving on further to
a wall where King’s life is
outlined in detail, includ-
ing childhood and family
photographs. Opposite this
wall were relics from his
life - his clerical robe from
his co-pastorship at
Ebeneezer Baptist Church
(which still stands next to
the Center), several ties and
shoes he wore along with a
business suit, a suitcase con-
taining personal belong-
ings, a sermon he wrote,
and his Bible. All of these
things were awesome from

Continued next page

 

Russian Army Day is February 23.

Women don't get gifts onValentine's Day.

In Guyana there is a special
parade.

"It celebrates the day in 1918 when

"Women don't get anything in

the newly formed Red Army stopped return until March14_..

German troops from entering
Petrograd (now St. Petersburg)."

-- Sergei Karamaev, Moscow,
Russia

-- Akiko Yabe, Shizuoka, Japan

"Women buy chocolates for the
men."
- Akiko Tada, Yokohama, Japan

"Valentine's Day is celebrated by
having a festival called Mashimony,
people dress in costume and parade
in the streets all night long."

--Colleen Thompson '96
Riverdale, Maryland (Georgetown,
Guyana)

1, P5038

KING CENTER, from page 7

a historical perspective, but
for me at this point it had
become more than that. I
realized these things were
part of a great man - a man
who fought for my right to
sit at the front of a bus, for
my right to shop in any store
I choose, to eat in any res-
taurant I choose, to work to
become anything I choose
to become, to study at a
school like Washington and
Lee.

Dr. King fought for
equality - my equality. He
fought a struggle so I
wouldn’t have to fight that
same segregation today.

I also realized he
fought for love and unity
not just among African-
Americans, but among all

people, no matter their na-
tional ity or the color of thier
skin.

We should all be
proud to finally have the
opportunity to set a day
aside in honor of this man.

He is not merely
someone African-Ameri-
cans should admire and re-
spect, but all people should
at least honor, respect, and
admire what he stood for.

Sadly, this is a key
point that many people to-
day seem to have forgotten.

I cannot describe to
you how culturally, so-
cially, and historically en-
riched I feel from one short
visit to this Center.

It was not only a look
into his and my past, but an
inspiration and hope for the
future.

Minority Student/lssaclatlan

Presents

Miss Virginia, Culle 

"Importance of Multiculturalism "

February 28, 1995
7:00 p.m.
Northern Auditorium

CIDSSIDMS

Facts on Affirmative Action

BY Anmu-:w Hrznon
Crossroads Staff Writer

Few issues in the an-
nals of American politics
have provoked as sharp and
diverse points of views as
affirmative action. In the
United States, affirmative
action is a series of steps,
procedures, policies, and
programs designed to pre-
vent effects of past discrimi-
nation on members of mi-
nority groups due to their
age, race, religion, national
origin, or sex. It also seeks
to remedy practices that do
not intentionally discrimi-
nate but have an adverse
impact which results in mi-
norities and women being
underrepresented.

“Freedom is not
enough. You do not take a
person who, for years has
been hobbled by chains and
liberate him, bring him to
the starting line of a race
and then say ‘You are free
to compete with all others’
and still justly believe that
you have been completely
fair,” said President Lyndon
B. Johnson as he celebrated
the degree to which racial
barriers were knocked down
after the passing of the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965.

Beginning with
Lincoln’s Emancipation
Proclamation in 1863, the
thirteenth and fourteenth
amendment to the Consti-
tution, which abolished sla-
very and granted blacks citi-
zenship, and the fifteenth
amendment in 1870, which
allowed all citizens to vote
regardless of “race, color,
or previous servitude.”

Nevertheless, racial
discrimination still pre-
vailed as these new rights
were often viciously with-
held from blacks by local
governments, industries,

and organizations such as
the Ku Klux Klan. All of
this resulted in the forma-
tion of our nation’s ghettos
as blacks converged in low
income areas of major cit-
ies in search of any job they
could get.

In 1920, seventy-two
years after the birth of the
women’s suffrage move-
ment at Seneca Falls, New
York, Congress passed the
nineteenth amendment,
which allowed women to
vote. The Equal Pay Act of
1963 required equal pay
rates for both sexes but did
not legislate against dis-
crimination that prevented
women from acquiring the
same jobs in the first place.

The 1950’s and the
1960’s brought about re-
markable progress for the
Civil Rights Movement. In
1954, the Supreme Court
ruling of Brown v. Topeka
Board of Education over-
turned Plessy v. Ferguson,
which made segregation on
the basis of race legal in
1896.

The Civil Rights
Movement became affirma-
tive action, however, when
John F. Kennedy initiated
the landmark Civil Rights
Act of 1964, subsequent ex-
ecutive orders and judicial
decisions, and Lyndon B.
Johnson passed the Voting
Rights Act of 1965, which
required certain businesses
and educational institutions
that received federal funds
to develop affirmative ac-
tion programs.

The Office of Federal
Contract Compliance and
the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission
(EEOC) was established to
monitor them.

See FACTS, page 10

CTOSSTOBHS

Page 9

Gay Rights

BY STEVE Powau.
Crossroads Staff Writer

As we celebrate Black His-
tory Month this February
we reﬂect on the courage
of the African American
civil rights advocates of the
1960’s. While those civil
rights leaders’ immediate
goal was to achieve equal
rights for racial minorities,
the principle they advanced
was one of freedom and
equality for all Americans.’
In doing so they played a
major part in setting the
stage for the lesbian and
gay civil rights movement.
The modern lesbian and gay
rights movement began in
1969, when patrons of a
New York City gay bar, the
Stonewall Inn, rioted
against police who had rou-
tinely harassed them. By
doing so, they brought na-
tional attention to the idea
that America’s lesbian and
gay citizens deserve equal
protection under the law.
Since the Stonewall riots,
lesbians and gay men have
made a great deal of
progress in the area of civil
rights. TWenty—eight states
have abolished their sod-
omy laws, another seven
states have adopted legis-
lation barring discrimina-
tion based on sexual orien-
tation, and voters in the
states of Idaho and Oregon
in November rejected pro-
posed state constitutional
amendments that would
have legalized discrimina-
tion against lesbians and
gay men. Legislation to le-
galize same-sex marriages
is currently pending before
the Hawaii state legislature,
and there are currently
three openly gay members

See FACTS, page 10

GUINIER, from page 3’

even if the number of votes garnered by the winner to
get to the majority is less than the number of votes that
the plurality winner of the original election received.
This happens every time since the third place ﬁnisher
switches his backing to the other white candidate. Due
to the poverty and lack of public transportation, it is
extremely difficult to get the black members of the
county to participate in the runoff. In Phillips county

‘the person who gets the most votes is not necessarily the

winner.
The District Court that heard the case rejected

the arguments of the plaintiff. In their opinion they

stated, “[A] majority vote gives validation and credibil-
ity and invites acceptance; a plurality vote tends to lead
to a lack of acceptance and instability.” This is patently
untrue. Our presidential election system is on based on
plurality victory and not absolute majority.

Guinier’s support for plurality rule is what ended
her chance for conﬁrmation. Her arguments for propor-
tional elections raise some of the issues that the american
public is concerned about. In the cases of proportional
representation, voters are forced to get involved. In
recent years, we have heard much about the apathy of
the voters. In the case of proportional representation,
interest groups have an opportunity to be heard because

"THE YEAP or THE PIG"

FIPEWOPKSI

CELEBPATE CHINESE NEW YEAP

wlTH THE |NT'L CLUB
TONIGHT!

8PM. LAW SCHOOL FIELD

they can group behind a candidate that represents their
views and not depend on a candidate that represents
their views and not depend on the two official parties.
There is more room for debate since there are
more candidates. Witness what happened in the 1992
election with the entrance of Ross Perot. He mobilized
a group that obviously wanted alternatives and debate.
Another beneﬁt of proportional voting described
by Guinier ‘is the requirement that groups cooperate.
Currently in a Republican District, a politician does not
have to listen to the arguments of the other side because
he is secure in his knowledge that he will get a majority.
If there are multiple candidates that represent diverse
interests, he will need to work to build consensus in
order to win. Proportional representation would end
much of the complaints about partisanship and gridlock
in Congress. _
' Her opponents distorted these ideas about pro-
portional representation to make her appear a “quota
queen”, wanting more votes for blacks at the expense
of fairness. At the end of her article she states,
“Ultimately, however, representation and participa-
tion based on principles of proportionality are political
equality, and so the ideal of democracy itself.” She is
not an advocate of quotas, rather she advocates a voice
for all that takes into consideration all people whether

they be or majority or minority groups.

INTERNATIONAL, from page 4

Washington and Lee stu-
dents, faculty, and administrators
are usually the first Americans that
some exchange students and teach-
ing assistants are exposed to. Lex-
ington while not a booming me-
tropolis, is enriched with a lot of
southern history as is the surround-
ing area. Furthermore, Washington
D.C., being only three hours, is a
place that can give a good intro-
spective on American History.

In addition to taking regular
classes international students are
also involved in extracurricular or-
ganizations such asthe International
Club, a social organization that is
here to introduce for both Interna-
tional students and American stu-
dents to one another. During meet-
ings and events, the students learn
about each others culture and soci-
ety. Some events planned for the
rest of the year include ﬂyers being
posted to recognize different
country’s holidays, shopping trips,
hikes and in the spring picnics at
Goshen and trips to Natural Bridge.

CIDSSIDBUS

Page to

FACTS, from page 8

As a result of this ac-
tion to provide minorities
and women with such safe
guards in employment and
education, affirmative ac-
tion has readily been criti-
cized as “reverse discrimi-
nation” (usually against
white males). Yet, in a so-
ciety where there is prefer-
ence in government jobs for
veterans, or in colleges for
the children of alumni, why
is the use of affirmative ac-
tion for minorities and
women so resented? After
all, it is naive to think that
after centuries of racism,
America — can just adopt
color-blind standards and
expect the vestiges of rac-
ism to disappear. As a
former U.S. Supreme Court
justice stated in a case dis-
puting affirmative action,
“In order to get beyond rac-
ism, we must first take ac-
count of race. There is no
other way.” Affirmative
action appears to be our only
significant counterweight to
the institution of racism.
Without it, women and mi-
norities, especially minori-
ties in the inner city, worry
that their chances for im-
proving their situation will
be lost. In addition, the
“victims of reverse dis-
crimination” can hardly ar-
gue that they do not in any
way benefit from pass dis-

A crimination against other

races and should, therefore,
reap the ill consequences of
these same benefits. Fur-
thermore, for every
opporutnity that they may
have been denied because
of affirmative action, mi-
norities and women were
denied more because of
their ethnic and/or sexual
orientation.

Regardless of the

battles for equality that were
fought and won, racism and
sexism still exist. Until an-
other applicable safe guard
is created, affirmative ac-
tion should remain, but
without the use of quotas.
Even if the benefactors have
not been suppressed by this
government in the pass, di-
versity should still be en-
couraged in all institutions.
Supreme Court Justice,
Lewis Powell confirmed
this when he stated “A farm
boy can bring something to
Harvard College that a
Bostonian cannot offer.
Similarly, a black student
can usually bring something
that a white person cannot.
The quality of the experi-
ence of all the students in
Harvard College depends
on these differences in the
background and the outlook
the students bring with
them.” However, this goal
for diversity should focus
more -on the economically
disadvantaged than it does
now on those of the middle

class.
Most important, we

need social policies that are

committed to two goals: the

~ education and economical

development of disadvan-
taged people regardless of
race, and the eradication
from our society-—through
close monitoring and sever
sanctions—of racial, ethnic,
or gender discrimination.
The disadvantaged then will
have to know and seize their
own opportunity to better
themselves, and the need
for affirmative action will
be no more. Then one day,
the dream Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. revealed in his up-
lifting “I have a Dream”
speech, of an America
where his children will be
judged solely by “the con-
tent of their character,” will
become a reality.

GAY RIGHTS, from page 9

of the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives.

In spite of these achieve-
ments, most lesbian and gay
Americans do not enjoy the
same freedoms as other citi-
zens. In many states, includ-
ing Virginia, gay men and
lesbians may legally be de-
nied housing and employ-
ment based solely on their
sexual orientation. Lesbian
and gay teenagers are still
three times as likely to com-
mit suicide as

gay men and lesbians, de-
spite the fact that many hate
crimes against gay men and
lesbians are reported in Vir-
ginia each year. A Virginia
judge in 1993 denied a
Henrico County woman

I custody of her son because

she is a lesbian. She was
later awarded custody by
the Virginia of Appeals, but
the case has been appealed
to the Virginia Supreme
Court. Only the municipali-

ties of Ar-

their hetero-
sexual coun-
terparts-, and
verbal and
p h y s i c a l
abuse of gay
men and les-

bians remains ‘ion-

In many states, in-
cluding Virginia. gay men
and lesbians may legally
be denied housing and
employment based solely
on their sexual orienta-

lington and
Alexandria
have en-
acted laws
to protect
lesbians
and gay
men from

c o m m o n -
place” in our
society.

Additionally, our own state V

legislature and courts have
too often served to promote
bigotry, rather than to dis-
courage it. When the 1994
Virginia General Assembly
enacted hate crimes legis-
lation it deleted language
that would have protected

and em-
ployment discrimination.
As with the African Ameri-
can civil rights movement,
the struggle for equal rights
for gay men and lesbians is
ongoing. It is our duty to
use our courts and our votes
to promote equal rights for
all Americans.

érossvoacls stain: vvoulcl like to extcvsal
Special jkovslss to:

 (“\3

cjkc ’QI.*v\g-:T\4v~\.-<pl~'L

Doors o£ minority and Q1r\t¢v'v\o—
I-.;..\..1 $m=.z.-, <3ccz.=.

minority stualcvst association

Ike uwivcrslty Bookstore

housing.

CIDSSIDBUS

Page 11

Letter on Tolerance

The typical W&L student would be more inclined
to condemn a new idea than to seek its merits. Why?
Because it is easy. This is an immature attitude, and it’s
tragic to see such laziness on a campus which supposedly
contains many of tomorrow’s leaders.

Almost everyday I hear someone slight another
because of what fraternity he belongs to. How can a

person be judged solely on a decision he made hurriedly ’

his freshman year? The fact is that the

Americans, surely, we believe that all men are created
equal. We form a more tightly knit community; we all
share a common pursuit—education; and we are free
from many of the stresses that irk people in the real world.
What stands in our way? Intolerance. There are those
among us who insist on judging others by their color of

their skin. To me, this is the mark of immaturity.
The most puzzling thing about the lack of intoler-
ance on this campus is that it practically

decision was probably made by an unin-
formed kid who was away from home for
the first time and was looking to pledge
with whomever would be nice to him.
Then again maybe it was made by some
calculating, power hungry, freshman who
wanted status and signed with the “coolest”
fraternity, putting him above the rest of his

[5 ﬂI£'I7'£5.

Ine typical W&L
tudentwauldnenians
ncl/ned to condemn a
W Idea than to seek

vanishes in the classroom. In an aca-
demicysetting students question their
beliefs and challenge age-old hypoth-
eses. They tolerate their classmates’
viewpoint in class, but their open-
mindedness vanishes once off “the Hill”.
Has no one here studied the Enlighten-
ment? It is considered “good” to ques-

classmates. Neither situation seems to be
an ideal one by which to judge a man.

Next I come to the issue of race. W&L students,
like many college students across the United States, are
not tolerant of those persons of another race or culture. I
do not blame the students themselves for their blindness,
but instead I blame the framers of our Constitution.
When TJ and company failed to deal with slavery, they
condemned posterity to a hideous fate—the Civil War.
Out of our Civil War grew more hatred and intolerance
and generally led to the proliferation of racial inequality.
Racial inequality abounds in our society and is a problem
of Herculean proportions. With all the ignorance in our
country, racial equality seems like a little more than a
dream which some great man (whose birthday, embar-
rassingly enough, we did not celebrate) dreamed. How-
ever, while at W&L we are part of a unique society,
composed of people who are intelligent and educated.
Here racial equality should be easy to attain. After all, as

When I first thought of
the idea of a Black History
Month newspaper, my main
concern was producing a pub-
lication that would attract the
attention of the entire campus.
People tend to reject holidays
such as Black History Month
because they feel they are be-
ing forced to participate in
ideologies that they might not
understand. Many times too
much of one thing turns people
off. That is why I wanted to
incorporate more than just
black issues in the supplement.

There has been much
controversy between black
and white students on this cam-

Crossﬂoads

Executive Editor
Ayanna Brady

Layout/Design Editor
Melba Merritt

Editorial Assistant
Michael Hewlett
I_.akeisha Townes

pus regarding the icons from
our history. The argument

tion tradition. You do not have to auto-
matically accept what your father and grandfather be-
lieved. You can argue with your professors and dispute
their teachings. Hell, someone might even reward you
for coming up with something original. But if you
denounce an idea, do it only after careful contempla-
tion— not out of ignorance.

I suggest that W&L students translate some of their
intellectual maturity into social maturity. Use the cogni-
tive skills you learn in class in your life. Secondly, I ask
that some students think before they speak. This alone
may avoid much of the conﬂict caused by intolerance.
Finally, realize your self worth; you do not need to
criticize someone else to make yourself look good.

This letter is not intended to offend. It’s purpose is
to encourage thought. If you are offended by its contents,
look within yourself to ask why. If you do not know why
and wish to debate with me, I welcome it.

—Jesse A. Taylor, ’96.

Letter from the editor

relies on the meaning of an
“X.” For most blacks the con-
federate ﬂag symbolizes ha-
tred of our people, while for
most whites it symbolizes
“southern pride.” The two
issues are in constant debate,
not only on our campus but
across the country. Many
people don’t see the confeder-
ate ﬂagsas being any different
from Malcolm X parapherna-
lia. According to some whites,
Malcolm X represents a ha-
tred of the white race, even
after his trip to Mecca. There
is a popular T-shirt that has
raised debate. It pictures a
confederate ﬂag with the cap-
tion “You wear your X, I’ll
wear mine.” The debate is

endless and perhaps pointless.

These racial debates
among our students is why I
naxned the supplement “Cross-
roads.” Each Washington and
Lee’s student body is more
culturally diverse. It is time
we stop fighting and strive to
meet each other at the “Cross-
roads.” “You call it an X, I
call it a Crossroads” - Partricia
Rusell-McC1oud, J .D.

I would like to thank
the entire “Crossroads” staff
for their time and effort spent
on the supplement. I’d also
like to thank the Ring-Tum
Phi for opening their publica-
tion to new ideas from the
student body.

-Ayanna Brady

 
3
1
l
l
E
S

— February 1995 —

Sunday

Monday

Tuesday

Wednesday

Thursday

Friday Saturday

Library

-5- CELEBRATE BLACK HISTORY MONTH . . .
Exhibition: “African American Works on Paper” in DuPont Gallery
Exhibition: “Kenya” Photography by Jon Branam ’96 in Leyburn

 7:30 p.m.
 Men’s Basketball
3 vs. Va. Wesleyan

SAB Band

8:30 p.m.

GHQ

“Keller Williams”

8:00 p.m.
“She Stoops to 3
Conquer” . . . Lenfest

2:00 p.m. M & W
Swim.vs Mary Wash. 4

7:30 p.m. Men B'Ba1l
vs. East. Mcnon.
“Barcelona" 8:00 p.m. .
Troubadour  p.m. “S116 SIOOPS [O
Conquer" . . . Lenfest

Superdance — 9:00 p.m.

_ _ 8:00 p.m. “Barcelona"
Pztvillion

Troubadour

2:00 p.m.
“She Stoops to

Conquer” . . . Lenfest

8:00 p.m. 6
“She Stoops to
Conquer” . . . Lenfest

7:30 p.m. Men’s
Basketball vs.
Randolph Macon

8:00 p.m.
"She Stoops to
Conquer" . . . Lenfcst

-tr 5:30 p.m.
“KARAMU"
feast in Dinning Hall

Poetry Reading

Lee Chapel 8:00 p.m.
Prof. Dabney Stuart
Cameron Howell '94

Lecture: Mildred
Thompson
DuPont Hall

9:00 p.m.

Coffeehouse VI-I-r
w/'I‘om Mason '94
GHQ

9

Hollins

Women's Basketball vs.

10 @111

Women's Swimming ODAC Championship

BREAK!!!!!!!!! - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
YAAA!

9:30 am.
Wrestling

YAAA!

12

VA State Toumy

BREAK!!!!!!!!! -

13

Valentines
Day

14

15

16

17

3:00 p.m.
Concert Guild:
Empire Brass
Lenfest

19

BREAK ENDS
BOO H00!

26

20

8:00 p.m.
Richmond Symphony
Lenfest

 28

Miss VA. Cullen Johnson.
Northen Aud.

-3- 7:30 p.m. African Art in
Dupont w/N.O.W.

8:00 pm. Shuko Watanabe.

Piano Recital. Lenfest

8:00 p.m. 

Society for The Arts
Play Reading
“Angels in America"
DuPont Hall

-9 7:00 p.m. 2 3
Speaker: Lani Guinier
Lee Chapel

8:00 p.m. Dining Hall
Women's Leadership
Faculty Dinner

8:00 p.m./GHQ

SAB Bingo

Exhibition of Student Art in Leyburn Library

Society for the Arts

M & W
Indoor Track 
ODAC Championship

24

8:00 p.m.
Murder Mystery
GHQI?

‘S BANG

~:~ 12:00 p.m.
“Ujuzi” Workshops
Chavis House

18.

Call Student Activities
(Michelle X4111) with ???’.7?

