  

 
  

 

EXCITING WINTER
FASHION REPORT

Men's and Women's

Cross Country

Sweep ODAC

U112 ’4l’ting—tum Iﬂhi

VOLUME 94, N0.47

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 11, 1994

KA robbed, Lee portrait taken

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

Robert E. Lee disappeared from the Kappa
Alpha house on Wednesday night.

A large portrait of Lee and a framed copy of
an old KA Ritual chant were removed from the
first ﬂoor living room, according to Alan
Schoellkopf, president of KA. In addition, food
was scattered and smeared around in the dining
room of the house.

Schoellkopf said at about 12:45 a.m. on
Thursday morning, he heard a number of people
downstairs on the main ﬂoor of the house. He
soon heard “several of the sophomores talking
on the upstairs hall about the picture
being missing.”

The group of roughly 20 people who
Schoellkopf heard were students visiting from
another chapter. lt is not clear whether these
students are responsible for the theft, but Mike
Young, Director of Security for Washington
and Lee, said he “got a lead pointing to students
from an area college.” Young declined to name

the college.

KA Housemother Mary Taylor said sopho-
more Richard Thomas “heard people leaving
through the front door and saying ‘We better
run. We better hurry.”’

House Manager Whit Morris said he and
Schoellkopf went out and cruised around Lex-
ington looking for the group that had been at the
house. Unfortunately, the group could not
be found.

“The portrait of Lee was a [modern] copy of
the painting in Lee Chapel. [It] was valued at
$1800 dollars,” said Schoellkopf. The other
item stolen was a “nicely framed copy of an old
KA Ritual chant.”

The chant had “recently been given to the
house by an alum[nus],” said Schoellkopl‘.‘Tay-
lor said the chant was from “1977 when the
house reopened,” after being dormant for sev-
eral years.

Taylor said “food was smeared, and bread
scattered around.” She said there was no real
destruction to the dining room, just a big mess
made.

Right now, the KAs iust want the picture and

chant back.

“Our number one concern is to get the prop-
erty back,” said Matson Roberts, KA Housing
Corporation President. He and Schoellkopf also
alluded to the theft of KA’s charter last
spring term.

“This is the second time in six months we’ve
had something stolen from the house,”
Schoellkopf said.

The original charter of the Alpha Chapter of
KA was stolen last spring term, most likely
during the course of a sorority formal held at the
house according to both Schoellkopf
and Taylor. .

Roberts and Schoellkopf expressed the hope
that the theft was merely a prank and not a
real theft.

‘‘I would hope it is not someone who has
something in for the KAs,” said Roberts.

Schoellkopf said the theft does not seem that
unusual because minor theft sometimes occurs
at the house.

“Being the Alpha Chapter, we get visited by
so many chapters. lt’s not unusual to get people
taking souvenirs.”

l

 

 

 

 

A portrait of Robert E. Lee was stolen from the KA house.

Cars Vandalized,
bicycles stolen

File Photo

 

Photo by Betsy Gn, The Ring-tum Phi

  * Sig Epwins first

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi_News Editor

Freshman cars were vandalized this
past weekend, and the number of bike
thefts has been rising.

Five cars parked in the freshman
parking lot were vandalized between 7
p.m. on Saturday, Nov. 5, and the fol-
lowing Monday morning, according to
Mike Young, director of security for
Washington and Lee University. All of
the cars had either radio antennas bent
or broken or windshield wipers bent or
broken. One car was also entered and
suffered damage to the turn signal and
the gearshift.

Freshman Megan Johnson’s car, a
classic 1964 Rambler, suffered the
most damage.

“On the outside, the radio antenna
was broken off and a windshield wiper
was bent way back,” said Johnson.
Since the doors of her car do not lock,
the vandals entered her car and
“wrapped the turn signal lever around
the steering column.” She also said

 

“[the vandals] kicked the gearshift so it
jammed up the gears and her transmis-
sion shaft.”

She estimated the damage to her car
to be at least $200 to $250, but also said
it may be much more by the time she is
done having it repaired.

She did not discover that hercar had
been vandalized until she went out to
drive it at about 12 noon on Tuesday,
Nov. 8. When she went to W&L Secu-
rity to report the vandalism, she dis-
covered her car was already on a list of
damaged cars.

“It made me a little upset,” that
security did not inform her of the dam-
age to her car.

Young said the ﬁve cars damaged
were in “close proximity to each other,
but other than that, there is
no connection.”

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard
said at the present time the police have
no leads or suspects. He also said, “it’s
a shame no one has anything better
to do.”

Recently, an increasing number of
bicycles are being stolen, both on cam-

pus and around town, according to
Young. In the past several months, six
to eight bicycles have been stolen.

“Recently, we’ve had a rash of bike
thefts, so lock your bike up,”
said Young.

He said those bikes locked up are
generally not messed with.

Beard said the series of thefts may
be related to a similarseries of thefts
that occurred last spring term. He ad-
vised students to “please secure the
bikes or take them inside.”

He also asked that students notify
the police and security when their bi-

cycles are stolen, so if the bicycles are '
recovered, the police can return them. ~

Beard said the police currently have
several bicycles in their possession,
but they do not have reports on them, so
they can not contact their owners. If
your bicycle was stolen, please check
with the police.

Anyone with any information con-
cerning either the vandalism or the
bicycle thefts, should call either the
Lexington Police Department at 463-
2112, or W&L Security 463-8999. ~

  tin Gong Show

$.~\

By Jessica Antonich and

Dan Odenwald
Phi Staff Writers

“A lot of ‘drunk pledges doing
goofy stuff.”

That’s how the emcee, Greg Lynch,
characterized Kappa Alpha Theta’s
fifth annual Gong Show.

The acts ranged from Theta ’s parody
of “it’s a Hard—l(nock a Day” from the
musical Annie to Beta Theta Pi’s ren-
dition of Salt n’ Pepa’s “None of
Your Business.”

The Gong Show benefits the

Rockbridge Area Recreation Organi-
zation and Court Appointed Special
Advocates, Theta’s national
philanthropy.

Sigma Phi Epsilon captured first
place with their medley of popular al-
ternative music tracks. They enter-
tained the audience with such hits as
“lt’s the End of the World” by R.E.M.,
“Alone” by Pearl Jam, “The Sweater
Song” by Weezer and “Everybody
Hurts” also by R.E.M. Second place
went to Phi Delta Theta with their
version of Michael Jackson’s
“Beat It.’’

The fastest Gong Award went to

Kappa Sigma for attempting to per-
form “99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall.”
They were gonged off stage before
they could ﬁnish the song title.

The judges were Michelle
Richardson, the Student Activities
Coordinator, Dennis Manning, Dean
of Freshmen, and Brian Richardson,
Professor of Journalism.

Door prizes were awarded through-
out the night with gifts ranging from a
Wilson Walker dinner-for-two coupon
to a gift certiﬁcate from T.G.l.F.

Theta’s Gong show is a yearly ritual
in which most fraternity pledges are

P’

 

“strongly encouraged” to participate.

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

Four Washington and Lee students were
charged with open burning, a Class
One Misdemeanor.

The charge resulted from a ﬁre lit at some
point during the Penthouse 500, a bike race
by freshman on the cheapest bikes they
could find, according to senior
Walker Mitchell.

Mitchell, along with John Rowe, ’95,
Marcus Rayner, ’97 and Compton Biddle,
’95, were all charged because of the ﬁre.
Mitchell said the police charged the four of
them since they were the only residents of
the “Penthouse,” a student residence at 206
N. Randolph, present at the time. In addi-
tion, no one came forward to accept

Four PiKas busted for  
burning bicycles

responsiblity for the ﬁre.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard said
when the police arrived in reponse to calls
from neighbors of the Penthouse, they “found
some type of bonﬁre burning and a group of
students on the sidewalk in front of
the yard.”

“The bonﬁre contained wood, gas, and
the piled—upbikes fromthe race,” said Beard.

Both Rowe and Rayner said they were
not present when the ﬁre was lit. Raynersaid
he saw the ﬁre and “ran all over the apart-
ment getting ﬁre extingushers and water” to
put the ﬁre out.

Rowe said he came outside as people
were trying to put the ﬁre out.

Mitchell said since those responsible for

3->See FIRE, page 4

MW

 

it

 

Phot by Betsy Green, The mg-tum

The freshman parking lot was the site of vandalism to student cars this past weekend. A
total of ﬁve cars were damaged

Students approve of Dean of Fun

After last year’s controversy, no seems to mind Richardson’s presence

By JOANNA Soro
Phi Staff Writer

With the semester already half over, the new
coordinator of student activities seems to have
given Washington and Lee students lives a little
more pleasure.

Michelle Richardson has been hard at work
s that we might play. She has offered an
alternative to the basements of fraternity houses
and the movies.

When the administration proposed hiring
someone to organize social activities most stu-
dents believed that it was unnecessary and
waste of money. There was also some concern
that fraternities would lose popularity if there
were other social options. That has not been the
case. Fraternities are just as strong as before,
but now there are more options to choose from.

It appears now that the general opinion has
swayed to favor Richardson’s impact. Students
who have attended the events are pleased-with
the variety that is offered.

Looking to years past, most students agree
this is long past due. The Greek organizations
were not meeting all the needs of the students,
and Lexington is not big enoughto support
clubs or other places to unwind.

Richardson has managed to do the impos-
sible. She has organized events that appeal to
all factions of the student body. The events are
attended by fraternity and sorority members,
independents, and faculty members. The Acous-
tic Coffeehouse on Friday nights has been a
tremendous success with attendance around
100 people. It features student and professional
musicians performing as the audience lingers
over their favorite coffee.

Junior Chris Buford commented on the ben-
eﬁts of the Acoustic Coffeehouse.

“I think it is a really good idea because it
provides good music that’s not a loud frat-party
basement band,” Buford said.

Sophomore Sasha Hartman applauded the
administration for hiring Richardson and being
sensitive to the students’ changing needs.

“I think it’s important to have an individual

who is solely responsible for student activi-
ties,” Hartman said.

Senior Lise Brown used her perspective as a
dorm counselor to shed some light on the issue. I
“There are a lot of freshman who want an;
alternative to fraternity parties. They are al-f

ready tired of the same things every weekend,”
Brown said.

“lt’s nice to have other options for people.

who are not really into the fraternity ordrinking

scene,” said freshman Katharine McFall.
Junior Gray Hancock thinks that having

some of the activities in the GHQ is a good idea.
“Utilizing the Pit is a really smart thing to

do. It’s purpose was to be a social center

outside of the fraternity system, but it was never
used until now.”

‘‘If you put together good music and good
drinks, people will come,” Hancock said. “lt
seems that people really want a change.”

“As an independent, I think it’s great that
they’re organizing something as an alternative

I->See MICHELLE, page 4

 

  
    

PAGE 2

 

    

The Ring-tum Phi. November 11. 1994

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World   

...«z.....  

 

Serbian plane ﬁres on Bosnia

A warplane ﬂown either by Bosnian or Croatian Serbs fired a single
rocket into the Bosnian town of Bihac on Thursday. Bihac is in one of the
regions designated by the United Nations as a safe area. It is not clear
whether the plane was in Bosnia or Croatia when it ﬁred the missile.
Ofﬁcials will not speculate on how NATO or UN forces may respond to the
attack.

Iranians bomb base in Iraq

Iranian jet ﬁghters bombed an Iranian Kurdish Base in Iraq on Thursday.
At least one person was killed and three wounded. This was the second in
recent attacks from dissidents working out of Iraq. This weekend, Iranians
ﬁred missiles into a camp operated by another Iranian opposition group. It
is not expected that Thursdays air strike will draw retaliation from Iraq.

Haiti swears in new Cabinet

Haitian president Jean-Bertrand Aristide finally has a Prime Minister
and a full cabinet, after a month of consultations. Tuesday morning, Prime
Minister Smarck Michel and his Cabinet took oaths of office and pledged
to begin work on their plan to rebuild their country. The plan emphasizes the
establishment of democratic institutions and the rebuilding of the economy
with market forces and foreign aid.

   

The Nation

Republicans win big in Congress

 

%=.

Republicans rejoiced this week at winning control of both the House and
the Senate for the ﬁrst time in 40 years. Republicans across the country won
landslide victories in Tuesday’s election. The GOP gained 49 representa-
tives, raising their total to 227, compared to the 199 Democrats and one
independent. The gains were most dramatic among governors, raising the
total to 31 Republicans, 18 Democrats and one independent.

FAA bans autopilot for planes ﬂying into ice

The FAA on Thursday barred airlines that ﬂy planes similar tome one
that crashed in Indiana last week from using autopilot during icy conditions.
Officials say if the plane that crashed had been under manual control, the
pilot would have noticed the icing problem. Last week’s plane crash killed
all 68 people on board.

Astronauts lookingfor ozone clues

The astronauts aboard the space shuttle Atlantis for the third time this
week monitored the Sun to look for clues to the diminishing ozone layer and
global warming. The astronauts must track the naturally occurring solar
energy changes, which can be tedious. So far the astronauts have made no
new discoveries, but are gathering information to use with future ozone
measurements. The Atlantis is scheduled to return on Monday.

Ito eases juror restrictions

Judge Lance Ito told the 12 regular jurors in the 0.]. Simpson case, as
well as the 15 prospective alternates, that they could now watch television
and, with caution, read newspapers. The only unrestricted television pro-
gramming jurors can watch is channels of old movies, home shopping
programs, _and wildlife shows. Those who watch any other programming
must be prepared to mute the volume in the event that information about the
Simpson case is relayed on the television. Under Ito’s relaxed order, jurors
and candidates must avoid radio, all newsprograms, talk shows, an enter-
tainment magazines.

The State

Robb defeats North; 10 reps are re-elected

Democratic candidate Charles Robb won election to a second term in the
US Senate in Tuesday’s election. Television networks declared the victory
about 90 minutes after the polls closed. Robb received 47 percent of the
vote, Republican candidate Oliver North received 41 percent of the vote,
while the independent candidate received 12 percent. Ten out of 11 Virginia
representatives were re-elected to the House on Tuesday.

Forest fire jumps containment lines

A forest ﬁre thought to be under control on Monday jumped containment
lines early Tuesday morning and forced the evacuation of houses in Stanley.
The ﬁre from Monday consumed about 250 acres and had been declared
under control. Winds caused the ﬁre to jump its containment lines. The ﬁre
spread so easily dueto a 30 percent drop in humidity and the quality of fuel
it fed on. The area is loaded with dead pine trees, killed recently by a
plague of beetles.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

Please don’t let me get gonged!

. ﬁz
Photo by -Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

On the left, the Phi Delt entry for the Theta Gong Show won second place. They performed Michael J ackson’s “Beat
It.” On the right, the Sigma Chi group performed “Little Bunny Fu-Fu.” They were gonged soon after they started.

Robb Win proves campus polls Wrong

By MICHAEL HEwLE1T
Phi Staff Writer

Although 13 mock elections at vari-
ous Virginia colleges went to Oliver
North, Virginia voters chose incum-
bent Sen. Charles Robb. On election
night Robb won 46 percent of the vote
over North’s 43percent. In a mock elec-
tion a couple of weeks ago, North beat
Robb with 59 percent of the vote.

Many Washington and Lee students
thought Robb won because he was
perceived as the better of the
two candidates.

Senior Paul Wright said he was sur-
prised about the results.

“Either one of them would have
done a good job in Washington,” he
said. ‘‘It came down to ‘who do I
hate more.”’

, > Junior Jennifer Fern thought‘ the
lesser of the two evils was North.

“As our honor system at W&L says,
we do not tolerate lying, cheating, and
stealing,” Fern said, “but I feel that’s
what both candidates did.”

Fernthoughtathirdcandidate added
to the campaign.

“Given that they were so close to
Washington, it was so gratifying to see
the presence of three political parties as
opposed to two,” she said. ‘‘It demon-
strates the variety of thought that exists
in American society. It should be a
great wakeup call to Bill Clinton who
can no longer rely on one party to pass
legislation.”

College Republican president Dou-
glas Thiessen said he was upset at
North’s loss but believes North de-
serves credit for his campaign.

“I think Ollie did a good job and
deserves to be commended for bring-
ing together many people on issues that
so many Virginians care about,”

he said.

Thiessen said Robb supporters in
Northern Virginia, Richmond and Tide-
water came out in extraordinary
numbers.

“Geographically, North won over
75 percent of the state but the numbers
of those areas were not enough (to elect
North),” he said.

Nova Clarke said North’s reputa-
tion as a liar contributed to his defeat.

“I think people couldn’t deal with
Oliver North,” she said. “They couldn’t
deal with someone without
any principles.”

Junior Richard DiDonna said the
Republican Party would have been in
trouble if North was elected.

“I think it’s good for the Republi-
cans not to have North, considering it
could cause the Republican Party

-trouble in 1996 in terms of ideology.”
 .. Sophomore Elizabeth Cox believed

the race would be close.

“I really think it could have gone
either way,” he said.

Although she was excited for Robb,
she said she was turned off by the
politics.

“I like Robb,” she said, “but the
only thing that bothered me was last
night watching him gloat over his vic-
tory. I guess that’s just the politician
in him.”

Sophomore Rachelle Rowe said it
would have been a mistake if North
had won.

“I think a lot of people would real-
ize after having North in Senate fortwo
years that it was a bad idea,” she said.

She said American voters are frus-
trated with the government.

“People are fed up with government
and for good reason—so they’re ready
for change,” Rowe said. “But just elect-
ing a new candidate doesn’t necessar-
ily mean things will get better.”

Photo by Betsy Green, ThciRiing-tum 1'
Local Lexington residents vote on Tuesday. Rockbridge
county went to North, but did little to sway Robb’s victory.

Both kids and tutors benefit from Adopt-a-School

By JENNIFER LATHAM
Phi Staff Writer

Last month 39 students at Mountain View El-
ementary got treats that will last longer than those
from their Halloween bags.

The “treats” are Washington and Lee students
who began tutoring the students through the Adopt-
a-School program in early October. The Adopt-a-
School program is a nationwide organization of
volunteers who help students at rural primary schools.

Tutors not only help students with schoolwork,
but they also become “buddies” to them. Teachers at
Mountain View especially encourage the “buddy
system,” because most students whom they choose to
get tutors have difﬁcult home lives.

Mountain View became one of more than 90
primary schools nationwide to participate in the
program after Adopt—a-School representatives spoke
with Principal Lewis Straub last summer. Straub then
signed Mountain View up for the program after
discussing it with W&L senior Kit Dodds
in February.

Dodds told Straub she would recruit volunteers
forthe program as chairman of campus and commu-
nity involvement in Pi Beta Phi sorority.

Adopt-a-School representatives told Dodds that
Mountain View needed tutoring help more than any
other Rockbridge County elementary school. But

Straub worried that Mountain View’s distance from
W&L would discourage potential volunteers.iMoun-
tain View is about a 10-minute drive from East Lex
grocery store on Route 11.

But the drive has not stopped W&L sophomore
Winston Chapman from visiting Casey, a ﬁfth-grader,
every Thursday. (Casey is not the student’s
real name.)

Casey said he looks forward to “going outside and
playing” with Chapman each week. Last week the
two played on the playground swings and slide as
they talked about the “Lion King” soundtrack Casey
ordered through a Scholastic book sale.

Chapman said the visit went smoothly until he
asked Casey about his Halloween plans. Casey told
him he could not go trick-or-treating at his
grandmother’s house because other family member
had found his uncle using cocaine there.

Casey also said he hadn’t carved a pumpkin this
year. He said his dad refuses to buy a gourd only to
throw most of it away in removing the pulp.

Pumpkin or no pumpkin, Chapman said Casey is
lucky to have a father who seems to take good care of
him. Casey’s father is physically disabled, and his
mother lives in a mental institution.

Chapman said taking a developmental psychol-
ogy class helped him understand Casey’s behavior
resulting from his family situation.

“He really has a hard time laughing, smiling, and
expressing himself,” said Chapman. “He needs

_ . __Phi Staff Writer

     

  

   

somebody that he can come out of his shell with.”

Chapman said he wants to help Casey deal with
his emotions but has trouble talking about Casey’s
home life with him.

“[Casey] is coming from a completely different
world, and I’m having to respond to this,” said
Chapman. “He brings up a lot ofsubjects that I’m not
sure how to deal with.”

But Straub said as long as Adopt-a-School tutors
do not react negatively to students’ concerns, the
“buddy system” benefits the students.

“These children are going to be introduced to
people from all walks of life,” Straub said. Straub
said Mountain View students see W&L students as
role models after getting to know them personally.

“I always feel that one-on-one tutoring is benefi-
cial,” said Straub. “[W&L students] are spending
time with the kids, not just running in and out.”

Dodds said Mountain View teachers and staff
show appreciation for the volunteers and recognize
the challenges of tutoring.

“The school has been great about realizing that the
program may be a little rocky at the start,” Dodds
said. “They’ve been fantastic about helping us out.”

Straub said he wants to continue the Adopt-a-
School program at Mountain View indefinitely.

“I think [students] need to see that giving of your
time and talents is an important part of life, not
something you lose before age 21.” Straub said.

Gill’s driving charge reduced
from Reckless to Improper

By EMILY BAKER

fell offthe ﬂoat Gill was driving during

   
  
 

’I‘IteEXecutive Cornmittee granted $300 to the Washington and Lee
Presid, maul Howe requested the funds to ooverthe $200 entry feeinte ‘
collegiate ski ciub,,$50 foratearr_i___he d ‘.1 .. - ‘ ,.

    

  

r.’s1;i:;%c1;;b;w:;i“s;sonsor»a 5-1ri'a‘ii?f f§‘°éin s .1" -~ -  - V V . . . --
.' tiers; Anorganizational meeting will be held between Thanksgiving and
ristmas breaks. For more information contact Paul Howe at 462-4419.

Phi News Editor

The reckless driving charge given

 Atticus Gill has been reduced to

improper driving, a charge that will
carry fewerpointson hisdrivingrecord.
Gill received the charge after a student

the Homecoming parade. ‘‘I’m still an-
gry about it,” said Gill. ‘‘I don’t feel I
did anything wrong, but I don’t have
the time or patience to pursue it further.
lt’s better than reckless driving, I sup-
pose, but I’m still pretty upset.” Im-
proper driving carries a $100 ﬁne. Gill
also has to pay $26 in court costs.

‘I

J»

 

' N

By

Washington and
Lee prides itself on
its sense of tradition,
and W&L trademarks such

as the collonade and the
honor code never change

radically, but evolve and-

adapt slowly as time passes.

So it seems with W&L fashions —
the basicswill always prevail, and while
students look good, they generally shun
the cutting edge in styles.

Forthe Washington and Lee gentle-
men, this is especially true, as fashions
for them change so little anyway.

And for all but the trendiest women
at W&L, tastes vary, but styles change
slowly — they prefer a classic look
-tested overtime to look good.

From the feet up, here is a look at

Tasteful skirt and sweater combinations
frequently grace the figures of W&L women.

94

what W&L women can expect to see in
the coming months, but there are no big
surprises.

For the feet, shoes like loafer-style
ﬂats, bucs, penny loafers, and lug-sole
oxfords are a good choice, both cute
and practical. Boots are a must as well:
cowboy styles, duck boots and hiking
boots are all good choices. Running
shoes and sneakers reminiscent of
growing up in the ‘80s, like Tretoms
and Converse All-Stars, are a natural
choice. Mary Jane styles or strappy
pumps (for a sleeker look) are cute
shoes to watch for. The time,
however, is coming to put
away woven mules
and sandals a
t h e
weather
starts
t 0
turn a
little
t 0 0

cold.
Shoes,
of course, need socks to go with them.
Perennial favorites are argyles and plain
white anklets — stock up at home over
Thanksgiving to eliminate needless
wasted time doing laundry around exam
time!
Trouser socks are obviously meant
to go with pants, while tights and ny-
lons can keep skirt
wearers a little
warmer and look-
ing great. Knee
socks are a cute
new sight, and
while the style
may not be here
to stay, they cer-
tainly look fun
with short,
pleated skirts.
Pants are a
wonderful choice
~ whenchoosingan
outfit on a cold
winter morning
— warm, good
looking and com-
fortable too.
Wool trouser-
styles look put to-
gether and wintry
in many colors,
while khakis and
corduroys (in
shades ranging
from very light
stone to dark ol-
ives, forest
greens, chocolate
browns and char-
coals) are great
for casual wear.
Twills and prints
are popular
choices, too. And
as a reminder, all
of these pants
look great as
walking shortsias
well.
Anotherpopu-
lar option is the

Dglan leaves different

wide-leg style, often in rayon or other
light fabric, usually a sophisticated
print.
Jeans are, as always, a staple in all
c 01 - ors and shades of blue, as long as
they do not look too “chemi-
cal,” as the goal
of most

W & L

women is

to look natu-

ralandatease

in what they
wear.

S k i r t s
provide just
as many op-
tions, from

very casual to

quite dressy‘.

They can be

straight or full

(pleats are popu-

lar), long or short,

traditional or wrap-

around. And skirts

come in many fun fab-

rics: blanket, plaid,

denim, khaki, corduroy,

equestrian and other prints, corduroy

and much more. The skirts to avoid,

however, are those that are Melrose

Place—short, slit up too high, or hang at
odd lengths.

For tops, the choices are many, but
ﬁne gauge sweaters are even more
popular than ever because of all they
offer: they are wann but not smoth-
ering; they are fitted but notclingy;
their style is classic and time-
less; and they come in so many
colors to ﬂatter everyone.

Especially great this sea-
son will be heathery
neutrals, rich fall
shades of red, navy

and dark green, and
basic white and
black. Twin sets are

a cute option, but
crewnecks, v-necks, car-
digans, and turtlenecks all
look great this season.

Pretty blouses will al-
ways be popular; lately
styles include big collars,
embroidery, and mandarin
collars. Denim and cham-
bray shirts always look good,
especially with so many west-
ern style skirts, jackets and
sweaters available the past few
years.

Turtleneckswill

. neverleave the win-

ter scene because they are good both on
their own and for layering with vests,
sweaters, blazers and buttondowns.

Flannel plaid, oxford cloth, and
brightly colored twill are all popular
buttondown shirts — especially good
when dressing in layers for parties or
off—temperature classrooms.

Tunics show up a lot lately in rough
silk and textured sweaters. Other good
sweaters are heathery wool and cute
“Eagle’s Eye” — type designs. Blaz-
ers dress up jeans nicely; when the
weather is colder, Patagonia-style
ﬂeece shirts, barn jackets, anoraks and
longwool winter coats keep students

<=::::;’VWCIINLl<—£3\4L£5i:E3EJV\. l¢3<3lC-E5 f31‘C>\ﬂV\»i£5£3

‘I/l/e‘ﬁ“L i e
ermy oafers artb ﬂea tﬁy ﬂair receive iiigli marks
\\7&Jf.'s 1994 .'Fat(- Winter fashion ﬁigﬁtig

looking good.
Cocktail
dresses and
f o r m a l s ,
mostly in
black, show
off the W&L
girl’schoiceof
simple el-
egance over
anything too
splashy.
Beads are still
popular, as are
sequins in
moderation,
perhaps ac-
centinganeck-
line.
Chiffonhas
been ﬂowing
recently in
s c a r v e s ,
sashes, and en-
tire slip

dresses. Tank
styling will
stay around,
and spaghetti
straps are back
as girls choose
party dresses for dancing and having
fun.

Not all

Weather.

dresses need be black;
reds, greens, and blues
will be popular this

year too, and other

col- ors can

“Cocktail dresses and
formals, mostly in
black, show off the

W&L girl‘s choice of

simple elegance over
anything too splashy.”

very fun. Simplicity, though, is key, so
shoes are best in black or another neu-
tral color that blends away and does not
compete with the dress.

For more casual dresses, a-lines are
back and promise fun times ahead,
while suit styling reﬂects sophistica-
tion and the shunning of dowdy styles
with an emphasis on clean lines and
good fabrics.

For their hair, W&L women choose
simple, natural styles, findingwhat best
suits them rather than what is the latest
cut. Chin length and a little longer are
quite popular, but emphasis is on hair
being shiny, swingy, squeaky clean,

Versatile and relatively attractive, duck boots

and healthy (not big).
This love of clean and traditional
must be one reason why so many girls
seem to prefer clean-cut and clean-
shaven looks fortheirW&Lmen. W&L
also seems to shy away from the return
to layers on television shows like
Melrose Place and Beverly Hills,
90210.
Jewelry is again always classic,
like pearls. And in the past few years,
monograms and antique spoons have
gained popularity, while most every-
thing plastic has fallen out of favor.
Fashion magazines, apart from
their trendiest offerings,

PAGE3

ﬁts tﬁe classic took

Phot by Betsy Green

work well in inclement

buttondowns in denim, chambrav, ox-
ford cloth, plaid broadcloth and ﬂan-
nel, and chamois, all usually worn with
t-shirts.

When the temperature drops, sweat-
ers will look good in heathery wools,
ﬁsherman cables, and dark, “manly”
patterns. A few years ago, ﬂeece was
the newest development in the W&L‘
man’s wardrobe possibilities, and it’s‘
certainly here to stay. 1

Change comes slowly to W&L, but.’
when it does, it is usually for the best,‘
especially in the closets of tradition-'
minded students. ‘

show much that would
fit in on campus:
military styles,
neutrals empha-
sizing tex-
tures,chic
manda-

rin ‘col-_
l a r s ,"

mm strappy

mm Pumps-
-,_, andtweeds and

heathers for a
warm country look.

W&L men have life

much easier, as their

clothes seem hardly to

change year to year.

Their basic

staple is

pants, and it

matters little whether they

have many pairs or only a
few.

Khaki and blue jeans are
their mainstays, but corduroy
is even more popular than last
year, especially in foresty col-
ors. They often wear these
pants with boots (hiking, cow-
boy, or duck) or shoes such as
bucs (dirty, saddle, or choco-
late), loafers, bluchers or run-
ning shoes.

'/
‘\II II’,
\\‘ I I (1

Shirts are traditional ——
nothing radically new in this
year’s collection

Photo by Betsy Green ;

Khakis are a staple for W&L men. 

impressions on cities

By JUSTIN ST. CLAIR
Special to the Phi

It has been argued that Bob Dylan is the most
inﬂuential musical artist of the latter half of the
twentieth century. More than thirty years after
the release of his ﬁrst album, Dylan is still
going strong. Currently on the Eastern U.S. leg
of his 1994 tour, Dylan recently played to sold
out houses in both Washington, D.C. and
Roanoke.

The venue for Dylan’s stop on Halloween
was the picturesque Warner Theater in down-
town D.C. Dylan and his band took the stage
promptly at eight and hurriedly tore through
two songs before ripping into a blistering ver-
sion of “All Along the Watchtower.” Dylan, as
he does with most of his songs in concert,
deviated from the original, firing off the lines to
the song in pairs. The band promptly changed
genres, delivering a version of “I’ll Be Your
Baby Tonight” that sounded as if it were straight
from Nashville.

Highlights of the show included an amaz-
ingly bitter acoustic version of “Masters of
War.” Dylan seemed to direct this harsh con-
demnation of‘govemment to the town itself.

Returning to the electric format after a brief
three songs, Dylan performed several more
tunes, including “Highway 61,” before ﬁnish-
ing with “Maggie’s Farm.” As he left the stage
he appeared a bit tipsy, mockingly pointing at
the crowd.

The crowd didn’t seem to mind Dylan’s
antics, and stayed on its feet until the band

m%V‘\

reappeared. Dylan played an amazing version
of “Like A Rolling Stone” before pausing once
again to mimic the fans cheering wildly from
the ﬂoor. He then returned to the acoustic
format and delivered an incredibly harsh ver-
sion of “It Ain’t Me, Babe.” Vocally attacking
his own audience, Dylan grated out a bitter,
sardonic end to the evening.

Two nights later in Roanoke, Dylan per-
formed an entirely different show. Not visibly
intoxicated as he had been in D.C., he changed
the playlist, including such hits as “Mr. Tam-
bourine Man,” as well as his concert standards
“Senor” and “Gates of Eden.”

The highlight of the Roanoke show oc-
curred near the end. As Dylan again closed
with “Maggie’s Farm,” a girl from the audience
jumped onstage and began to dance. Soon
others followed, and by the end of the song
nearly thirty fans, mostly teenage females, were

to Continued on page 4

By Kmx SUSONG
Phi Movie Reviewer

Mary Shelley ’s Frankenstein - 12775:’ 1/2

Despite this Halloween’s Mighty Morphin
Power Rangers, one of the most enduring crea-
tures in our collective imagination is that lum-
bering semi-human, Frankenstein.

Most of us remember him as a tall green guy
with a crew cut and bolts sticking out of his
neck. .
By now, this image is probably likely to
inspire humor instead of fear.

But Kenneth Branagh’s new movie, Mary
Shelley ’s Frankenstein, takes a different tack,
more faithful to the original text. Here the
monster inspires neither laughter nor fright, but
pity.

As expected, the young Victor Frankenstein
(Kenneth Branagh himself) goes off to med
school and begins asking all the wrong ques-
tions.

After the unfortunate death of his mother,
he wants to bring the dead back to life, to re-
animate the dead, to create life anew.

This he unfortunately manages to do, creat-
ing an absolutely hideous creature (which looks

more akin to an evil Raggedy Andy than to the
Addams Family’_s Lurch).

Realizing the mistake he has made, Fran-
kenstein leaves the creature to his own wits and
hopes he will die in the plague sweeping the
country-side.

Naturally, the Monster (Robert De Niro) is
more than a little annoyed at this lack of pater-
nal love; things only get worse after he discov-
ers how much the world abhors him, since he’s
so ugly. '

He pursues his creator to exact vengeance
and demands a wife of equal ugliness to be his
companion.

Frankenstein and his Monster end up chas-
ing each other around, ﬁnally winding up on the
Arctic Sea. -

This ﬁlm will not live up to your expecta-
tions, but it’s sort of difﬁcult ﬁguring out ex-
actly why.

For one thing, the movie attempts to incor-
porate too much plot into two hours.

The ﬁrst twenty or thirty minutes are spent
telling of Victor’s early life, his initial experi-
ments with electricity, the death of his mother,
and other semi-interesting material.

That leaves barely enough time for the story
of the Monster.

In the end, the movie seems very rushed,
hectic and sketchy.

What becomes the movie’s saving grace (to
the extent that it has one), is the acting. Branagh
goes half the movie without a shirt, which
makes him look slightly ridiculous, but other
than that his acting is ﬁne.

The supporting cast is quite good, including
Helena Bonham Carter (A Room with a View)
and Tom Hulce (Amadeus).

One person to look for especially is John:
Cleese, who does a surprisingly good job as Dr.;
Frankenstein’s mentor, Dr. Waldman. 3

But the man who takes the cake is Bobby De;
Niro himself. ;

He is absolutely coated under layers and
layers of makeup - but still manages to express
the tragedy and sorrow of his character. 1

This ﬁlm really isn’t so bad, but it could
have been so much better. I

The trailer makes the ﬁlm look more excit-l
ing than it is; its biggest problem is that it’s a let
down.The story is rushed and the directing
melodramatic. '

But the underlying story-line and the decent
enough acting make it interesting. And, the
sumptuous costumes and sets make it a visual
treat .I wouldn’t suggest that you rush off to see
Frankenstein, but it’s worth at least a video
rental or the drive-in. 7

Rating Scale

‘A'*:}i‘:{r - Go buy this as soon as it comes out on video.
It is an instant classic. “You'll laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe,
just maybe, you’ll learn something about yourself.”

ﬁﬁﬁ - Go see this ﬁlm now, while it’s still on the big
screen. it’s worth a few Oscar nominations and the seven
bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall,
“Better than Cats!”

ﬁﬁ - Okay, so there have been better ﬁlms. Neverthe-
less, it is a good example of its genre, and you should
probably see it on videotape. Still, probably “Better than
Cats!”

13' - It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off
tomorrow ’s reading. Although your time would probably be
better served on your education, its free and you’re bored, so
go ahead and watch it.

9 — Even if its free and your best friend said he never
laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks. Don't waste your
time, or at least don’t waste it on this. ('l1iere’s always
MTV.)

  

.i>AGE 4

 
   

.99‘! ‘ '~

By JOHN Cox
Special to the Phi

Everyone that saw the show on
1 Wednesday night now knows. We all can say
1 congratulations to The Dave Matthews Band.
. Seeing Dave on Wednesday night conﬁrmed
what many in the Class of ’95 said our freshmen
2 year: these guys will make it. Well Boyd and
7 friends, you made it.
7 You hear it almost everyday in certain
vcircles: “We can say we knew him when.”
1 Dave’s music just seems to mean a little more
7 to the students from Lexington and
' Charlottesville; from the lyrics to the live shows,
it is just that much more personal to us.
You can see it from the bumper stickers and
T—shirts that have circulated campus these past
- years, W&L loves Dave. And for those of you
 that complain that all you ever hear about is
3 Dave, give him a listen, go see a show. This
; many people can’t be wrong; the music

By PAT WILLIAMSON
Phi Staff Writer

The coffee was hot and good to the last drop.
It was like an old friend, bittersweet and re-
freshing. Although it may have singed a few
tongues, it was an integral part of the atmo-
sphere; had it been absent, the function would
practically havgggﬁsed sgggggtist. Some took it
with sugar,’othqa~wI~itli~ ereaim, still others took
both. The ‘real"me'r‘I, however took it straight
black.

We are speaking of course of yet another
GHQ acoustic coffee house sponsored by stu-
dent activities and the society for the arts. The
scene was ripe for soulful back to back perfor-
mances by student performers Cooper Harris
and the trio of David Olympio, Dan Vesay, and
Todd Bryan.

The show commenced last Friday evening
within the dark pit of the GHQ approximately
ten minutes after its scheduled starting time of
nine o’clock with a unique introduction of the
ﬁrst performer, Cooper Harris. The impromptu
announcer, whose identity was never discov-

as. .. _M,,.

proves it.

When complaints about the new al-
bum like “you can’t hear Boyd” are heard, the
reply is always “you’ve got to see them LIVE.”
For all of those who had never seen the show
until Wednesday, now you know what we meant.

And to all of you who were disappointed for
whatever reason with Under the Table and
Dreaming , take it for what it was meant to be:
a studio album. One thing that makes the band
so great is the different sounds they have. The
studio can make the songs sound a little differ-
ent. Dave said himself that they got some great
screams onto the album, and they did. How-
ever, the screams from the Horse Center were
heard all the way back at RCA.

On the anniversary of the release of
their ﬁrst album, Remember Two Things, The
Dave Matthews Band returned to us here in Old
Virginia where it all began only three short
years ago. We all know that Wednesday nights
at W&L mean something special, but this week
was a little different: Dave and his band were
back. The greatest part is, is that they knew that

*C3oFFee, wxuslc Free

ered, delivered a rambling tirade that essen-
tially made no point but nevertheless set the
stage for an emotional opening number by
Harris.

Playing an acoustic guitar, Harris tenta-
tively crooned his way through the ﬁrst couple
of songs, warming to the crowd and gaining
conﬁdence with each note. Though the hall
was sparsely populated at ﬁrst by friends and
acquaintances, gradually it began to ﬁll as
interested parties sporadically wandered in,
drawn by the allure of the music and the aroma
of freshly brewed coffee. Soon Harris was
wailing and moaning his way through a set of
blues and classic rock standards, covering the
likes of Dylan, Elvis, Robert Johnson, and even
U2. The set also included ﬁve original songs.

Of his first solo performance, Harris, who
has been playing for three years and partici-
pated in a rock and roll band in high school,
conceded that overall he was pleased, despite
some glitches such as forgetting words and
breaking a string while playing slide. He also
wanted to stress how much he appreciates his
fans.

As Harris wound down, audience response

’E>._,1m\ kits cities

It Continued from page 3

Dylan finished the song without saying a
word, before leaving the stage, quite unlike
3 what his reaction would have been twenty —
1 five or thirty years ago. As soon as his crew had
5 cleared everyone offstage, Dylan reappeared,
3 and again without saying a word, delivered a
~ touching response to the audience in song:
What good am I,
If I ’m like all the rest?
If I just turn away,
When I see how you ’re dressed?
If I shut myself oﬂj

3 onstage dancing with he band.

0

So I can ’t hear you cry?

What good am 1?

He again closed with “It Ain’t Me, Babe.”
However, instead of the bitter, berating version
he sang in D.C., the song almost became fa-
therly advice. “lt ain’t me babe. It ain’t me
you’re looking for,” Dylan chided his fans who,
climbing back onstage, seemingly took no no-
tice.

Dylan finished the song and paused for
several seconds as if, even after all this time,
mystified by the entire scene. then, he calmly
walked offstage, and presumably onto his tour
bus, heading down the road to play another
show and leave his mark as he has been doing
for so many years.

Lambda Chi Alpha
collects food for needy

Their annual food drive is a success

By DAN ODENWALD

Phi Staff Writer

Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity is busy helping Lexington’s needy. They recently conducted a
week-long food drive that assisted Total Action Against Poverty (TAP). TAP is a Rockbridge
county group that is committed to helping the area’s poor. Fraternity members placed donated
Harris-Teeter plastic grocery bags on city residents’ doors and solicited donations.

lambda Chi Vice President, John Bator, organized the event. Each year Lambda Chi Alpha

, fraternity chapters sponsor a nationwide North American Food Drive that assists the poor. They
, solicit canned items and non-perishable goods from the community’s residents.

, TAP intends to distribute the collected items to members of the community along with
j donations from other non-related food drives. The Lambda Chis also asked local businesses to
" support their philanthropy effort by donating cash contributions. They were successful in their
?drive and received over 1700 pounds of canned foods. This amount exceeded the national
: fratemity’s projected goal for their Washington and Lee chapter.

p Sophomore Hank Cosby believes the food drive is worthwhile because it helps the fratemity’s

2 relationship with the community.

Cosby said, “The food drive was an important way to give back to the Lexington community.
i Most people were receptive and familiar with the project.”
Cosby also said that the Lambda Chi food drive will continue next year and hopefully become

i an annual event.

Some Lexington residents used the food drive as an impetus to clean out their pantries. Included
’ in the standard cans of tuna and peas were some rather strange items. Perhaps the strangest of these
donations, donated by an overly enthused participant, was a jar of crayfish sauce.

  levee Dave

2.5.» 3 -‘as:

W&LlF E / NEWS

they were back, they knew they were home. To
quote the man himself “Virginia is cool.” The
show itself was one of the best many of us has
seen. How many times do we get to hear “Say
Good-bye” and “Cry Freedom Cry” anyway?

For all of us who remember that the
lyrics for “Satellite” started out as a song called
“After Her”, or saw him play with Tim Reynolds
in a place called TRAX, we’ve kept passing on
the word about this one band from C’ville;
every time we take someone to their first show
the look on their face says it all.

From the performances at Zollman’s to the
Pavilion, from the UVa amphitheater on Dave
Matthew ’s Day to this Wednesday night’s show
at the Horse Center, we all know that they are
great, and they had what it takes. Dave himself
summed it up best: “Would you not like to be,
sittin’ on top of the world with your legs hangin’
free?” Well friends, we are, and we can here
Boyd and all the rest, playing the music that
makes us smile.

Thanks Dave from all of us, and we’ll see
you soon.

was quite favorable, but nothing compared to
what would follow. Billed as a funk and jazz
trio, Olympio, Vesay, and Bryan opened with a
strong acoustic set, letting various jazz stan-
dards loose from their deep bag of tricks, in-
cluding the ever popular “Kansas City.”

But it was their second set that truly
punctuated their versatility. Electric in both
senses of the word, the set was propelled by a
ic  beat which paved the
.~ ~ r diverseﬁriumbers including samples
from several popular theme songs and
soundtracks. Often the three were content just
to jam away, sweet music protuberating from
their instruments. One member of the audience
later described the playing of the three as phe-
nomenal.

The music was of excellent quality. The
coffee was hot and free-flowing. What more
could the typical W&L music aficionado ask
for? Undoubtedly the student activities asso-
ciation and the society for the arts have a good
thing going. So long as there are students who
want to be heard and other students willing to
listen over a mug of joe, the success of the
acoustic coffee house will continue indefinitely.

 
   

The Ring-tum Phi, November 11,1994

Bell explores protesting

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Martin Luther King, Jr. once said that if
someone is willing to die for something, he
isn’t ﬁt to live.

Throughout history, people such as King,
Ghandi and Nelson Mandela have risked their
lives to protest an unjust system. Yet, to protest
oftentimes means alienation and ridicule.

When King protested the Vietnam War,
civil rights leaders such as Roy Wilkins and
Bayard Rustin criticized King harshly. King,
however, refused to temper his protest because
he simply believed the war was wrong; he
believed he had an obligation to stand up against
all injustice.

As Derrick Bell argues in his book, Con-
fronting Authority: Reflections of an Ardent
Protester, doing the right thing can be difficult,
dangerous and lonely.

In the 1970’s Bell became the first tenured
black professor at Harvard Law School. Hardly
comfortable with his position, he pressures the
law school to hire more minorities.

Bell argues that the process Harvard used to
select faculty gave an unfair advantage to appli-
cants who graduated from elite schools such as
Yale or Harvard. Harvard ignored the achieve-
ments of an applicant after he graduated. For
example, Harvard would takes someone who
went to Yale over someone who went to Howard
Law School regardless of what practical expe-
rience he had.

Bell argues that this type of selection gave
minority applicants a difficult time.

“The standards for hiring and promoting
faculty at Harvard Law School (and in fairness
at almost every major law school in the coun-
try) erect almost unassailable barriers of class
and race.

Bearing little correlation to effective teach-
ing or signiﬁcant scholarship, the criteria’s
most uniform effect is to produce a group of law
professors whose backgrounds, education, in-
terests, and writing most closely resemble those
of the wealthy white men who have dominated
law faculties since their beginning.”

Black woman have an especially- hard time
being hired by Harvard.

Regina Austin and Anita Allen come to
Harvard Law School, but they are never offered
a position. Bell tries his best to pressure Harvard

to promote diversity and supports student pro-
tests over faculty hiring. When Harvard fails to
offer either Austin and Allen a position, a
frustrated Bell decides to take an unpaid leave
in protest Harvard’s failure to hire a black
woman.

His friends and colleagues desert him, urg- :
ing him to quit this foolishness. People distance ’

themselves from him, perceiving him to be

some insane radical. He wonders if his protest 1

is making things worse or better.

' These are the things that a protester will I

face, Bell argues.

Confronting authority is not going to make ii,

you popular or win you millions of dollars.
Oftentimes, challenging authority will make
you an enemy instead of a friend. .

Bell provides the example of Paul Robeson,
an outspoken activist for global human rights.
He protested African colonialism, Jim Crow,
lynchings, the Korean War and discriminatory
immigration laws.

By the end of his life, he had only $6000 in
his possession. Luminaries such as Jackie
Robinson openly viliﬁed him. He paid the
ultimate price for challenging those in power.

Interspersed with the main narrative, Bell
weaves an allegorical tale about the barriers
between the Citadel and the lowlanders.

The lowlanders protest their treatment, and
the Citadel must seek ways to include them
while maintaining their power.

The story exempliﬁes something King said
once: Those in power never willingly give
freedom and equality, but these things must be
demanded by the oppressed.

Overall, Bell writes intelligently about pro-
testing. He draws on his and others experiences
to show the risks a protester must endure. Yet,
he also shows why we must protest.

If we don’t, then who will? What if Rosa
Parks had never refused her seat to a white
man? What if no one ever opposed Adolph
Hitler or the Vietnam War?

Protesting is an important facet of American
history. Bell makes usthink about our everyday
lives and the number of slights we take without
any reaction. We often think it easier to ignore
rather than confront a wrong. It certainly is.

Yet, Bell makes us wonder where we as a ,
people would be if we didn’t confront author-
ity—whether collectively or individual.

Bell ultimately proves that protesting has an
integral value that surpasses the risks involved

Photo by Lerone Benett, courtesy of Ebony

In 1954, NAACP officers (1. to 2'.) Roy Wilkins, legal counsel Thurgood
Marshall, Walter White and attorney Robert Carter toasted the future.

By MATT O’BRIEN
Phi Staff Writer

This weekend Habitat for Humanity, a
recent addition to Washington and Lee,
will be sponsoring a six man
volleyball tbumament.

_ Student Activities Coordinator Michelle
Richardson, the F.L.C, Dean Manning, and
Habitat for Humanity all played an integral
role in organizing this event.

Habitat’s primary purpose is to provide
shelter for low income families that need
assistance. This weekend’s tournament is
just one of the many fund raisers planned
throughout the academic year. Presently,
they are amidst a campaign to raise $10,000
to fund the restoration of a house here in
Lexington. Each dollar raised will be
matched by a private organization until they
reach their goal.

Registration for each six person team
costs $18, which will go directly towards
Habitat’s cause.

The tournament will be held in the
Doremus Gym on Sunday from 1-5 p.m. As
an added bonus, participants will receive

Habitat for Humanity
sponsors volleyball tourney

free pizzas and soda for their efforts. Pres-
ently, the bulk of the registered players has
come from the various fraternities around
campus.

Kappa Alpha, Phi Kappa Psi, Pi Kappa
Alpha, Phi Kappa Sigma, Beta Theta Pi, and
Sigma Phi Epsilon have all submitted at least
one team into the competition. However,
teams do not have to be afﬁliated with any
organization on campus.

“Anyone who has the time to spare for a
good cause are encouraged to participate”,
said freshman leadership council member
Matt Graves, “and free pizza— how can you
go wrong?”

To register for the competition, contact
Michelle Richardson at 4111 up until 12
noon on Sunday.

“We’ve extended the deadline as late as
possible so we can register as many people
as possible for this event.

If anyone is interested, just leave your
name and telephone number on my voice
mail and bring the $18 registration fee to the
tournament.”

Participants are advised to arrive at least
twenty minutes before the start of the com-
petition to receive their court assignments.

Two new Trustees chosen I

By JOANNA Soro
Phi Staff Writer

The Board of Trustees appointed two new
members, including Washington and Lee’s first
female trustee.

Pamela J. White and William R. Johnston
were appointed to the board during the trustees
meeting on October 28th and 29th. They both
will serve a ﬁve year tenn on the board with the
possibility of being elected to another ﬁve year
term.

Pamela White is a member of the 1977 law
class. She is a partner in the Baltimore law ﬁrm
of Ober, Kaler, Grimes and Shriver. White is
the former president of the Law Alumni Coun-

cil. She also sits on the national steering com-
mittee of the university campaign, On the Shoul-
ders of Giants.

White was awarded the Distinguished Alum-
nae Award last May and the Order of the Coif
by the law school this October.

William Johnston is a member of the class of
1961. He is chairman of LaBranch & Co., a
New York Stock Exchange specialist ﬁrm.
Johnston is the chairman of the Commerce
School advisory board. He is also sits on the
national steering committee of the university
campaign, On the Shoulders of Giants. Johnston
is the son of alumnus H. Reed Johnston, class of
1928.

White and Johnston will be sworn in at the
February meeting of the Board of Trustees.

Richardson
well received
I->MICHELLE, from page 1

to the typical W&L social scene,” said junior
Jay White.

Richardson’s ideas are not limited to the
acoustic coffeehouse. Several bands have
already performed in the Pit and Shannon
Worrell performed this past Thursday. A trip
to Washington D.C. also has been planned for
November 13. The trip costs $20 and includes
a ticket for the National Symphony Orchestra.
A dinner theater is scheduled for the 13th of
January in the GHQ. A speaker will give a talk
on male and female sexuality on January 26.

It appears that Washington and Lee stu-
dents are enjoying the new variety of social
activities, and are eagerly awaiting what
Richardson can give us next.

4 charged for
open burning

u>FIRE, from page 1

the ﬁre did not come forward, someone had to
be responsible. According to Beard, since the
person who lit the ﬁre could not be found, the
ofﬁcer present charged the house's residents
for the ﬁre. _

Some residents of the house disagreed
with this.

“I’m not reponsible. I was in my room at
the time,” said Rowe.

The race was “a Penthouse event,” accord-
ing to Rayner, who felt that people present
“went out of control.” According to Mitchell,
the participants are required to do 500 laps
around the house in a series of relay teams.
This year, the second year the event has been
held, it was stopped early for some reason.
The bikes were piled up and set on ﬁre after
the race was stopped.

The ﬁre was put out by those present,
according to Lexington Fire Chief Kenneth
“Butch” Hall. ’

“I was notiﬁed of the ﬁre, but not called out
to it,” he said.

ft

‘V

J’.

 

I.

 

The Iﬁzg-tum Phi, November 11, 1994 ' W  ‘ PAGE 5

_uFe IN N emit
Ham, 4 ga.“£.S‘?I%

SHOE

 

    

   

I REPLACED THE LIGHT N
MY REFRIGERATOR W
AN ULTRAVIOLET 

  

’{(/;/‘/,7a 3

  

up-n-nu

I _
Oﬂhnknlhﬁkvinkkl

 

    

9:-~5va9 AV” 58 wu@ ilhloﬂﬁt sauna, avnv q.w\-n-u

       
    
 
    
   

NON EQUITUIK
% 
 vom  we've
 Accoumev Fox EVERY
c°N‘r\Nc~ENcY.

IF we wxu. wen. 301.1
cmmee ova Nme Tb
TF5 FRO-\\~\C—0N~B‘-NT

: I'[[|«E,:~’li: 2%?-"!Jf'1:;;;.;a
vi ’_,..'   L
[95
,,

MIXED MEDIA ’ II’  p
1 rum“
.1, « _

by Jack Ohman

VARNER 3: POLE  

Specializing in Unﬁnished
Furniture and Shades

"19 S. Randolpiist.

.~s '
,.

-g fr’ '

a- ~-- , I
u.~..:?t.a.sa._.en a .4

 

 

 

 
      
         
     
     
     
       
        
    
 
 
 
 

Lexington, VA 24450
463-2742
_  tists ts‘
  . x  in Catpo
‘ > /_ ’ ....  .......  Valley
All Coats, Jackets and Blazers  gm? s0(uﬁo,, to ﬁoﬁbay gift 5 55$? 4
25% off beginning today » P'°5‘°"‘5~ Giﬂwmﬁ» ‘W5 5“‘PP‘“9~ iii‘ Hardware, Paint, and Related Items
TGIF Catalog Outlet voucﬁers, advice cmb ﬁefp - Amex, ‘Disa, and
17 south Main street 453-9730 ? Mastercarb Wefcome Open Mon.- Sat. 8330 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
Hours: Mon. _ Sat. 10 - 5:30 1WI£STWASHINGTONT9;{R7%!;‘T‘g.‘~8ig1EGTON.VIRGINMM450 E. NCISOII St., Lexington 

Inventory Reduction Shoe Sale

Kel|y’s Corner

On Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington

   

"T he tradition continues” 20% of all Regular Priced
ANNOUNCING Zing::;*B‘::2:.:m:i::L'e:°:.?;s shoesinsrock
N 7-Up. A&W root beer, RC. cream soda- Large Selection Men’s and Women's
THE RETURN OF 3 cans / $1.00 _
4 0 (3, Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .039/gal. Basketball shoes

« cl:

Unleaded Plus - $1.109/gal. Up to 50% of
V TO I Miller Reserv_e.Bottle§ - $10.99/case
, UNIVERSITY SPORTWEAR. :3us'é”i.”Z".§’:i“§."’-""s?’s».so Sale Rm“ ‘’‘’‘’"8’‘
L SWEATS, SHORTS, ETC. °"° "'99" °"’’’ N0V3mb€T 19

40 lb. ice - $4.99

As Always, We Provide The Best
Service For The W&L Community

463-5452

COMING SOON!
LOOK FOR SPECIAL SALES TO MAKE ROOM

15 W. WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON
800 474-0056 703 464-3000

 

<.7£ut geam cs/Jozta

Mlles & Sand N e, Pro - rletors

   

__-_--...-..-_.........---------‘

      

 

 

    

«Do You Want Cfedlt Cards? i-UNI—CARD.BOX 22o645.no1.mrwoon.r1. 330221

. I

Nowyou can have the most rccognﬂed « '  'wam.MAsrD‘cARD.  '

‘man can! in the wand EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN 3 1mm oualtamslm I

cnnorr or Have BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . :

' M53.”-cuue the credit card you I
w=-n;.g~d...;s_'°~,..,,.">-a:’.°°.;‘..*a-t..%:.*.';,':*.:-:" - NAME :
—- - u

I-zmenosncv CASH—TlCKE'lS~RESTAURAN1'S- . ADDRESS |

HOfl‘El.S—MOTELS—GAS-CAR RENTALS— ' Cm STATE __ Zn, ______ .

REPAIRS-AND TO BUILD voua cm-zorr RATING! ' __ _ .

' No turn downs! ' ‘STUDENT? -' I§§__!9_.. SS.’ .

7aa:6aee 5;éecc'¢Z¢ - ‘B W‘ N0 °'°‘“‘ °"°°““' 1 I SIGNKITJRE '
5 - _ I , 2 — u\h5‘,m.e°‘5?;\c N°s°°“ﬁtyd°p°sit ' uaIt=mscao-noun-eguomacnaen-auduunuonsauuueununoc-I.Inu-. '
/hm‘ cum" 04 G“o%°ﬂ‘» SEND THE coupon TODAY ' :
2g‘-4%,’ $3.53 gwwm YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING! : MAIL nus N0 Risk um 05. lu1>.—u '!

I.-------‘--.---"-".-: t

 

 

    

PAGE 6

@112 ilting-mm ilﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Housing options:
one of our best traditions?

From the standpoint of fraternity males, the proposed
housing policy is no more than a validation of a common
practice. Nearly every sophomore member of a fraternity
already lives in fraternity housing.

But for the 40 percent of the student body that is female, the
mandatory sophomore housing is rather unfair. Yes, we
know all’s fair in love and war, but this is neither. It could
even be called sexist.

Until sororities have their own houses, a requirement for
sophomores to live in University housing would be targeted
solely to the women on campus.

The University argues that sophomore housing would
keep the students closer to campus and the opportunity for
studying. But, in my four years in Lexington, I have lived in
two different off-campus apartments and in Woods Creek.
Both of my off-campus abodes were closer to the University
Center (my usual place of late—night school work) than the
University housing. One was closer to the library than Woods
Creek. With a plethora of housing available within five
minutes of the Colonnade, this has never been a problem.

Another argument the University is making for the new
plan is that sophomores would have more time to form strong
friendships. With the overwhelmingly social nature of our
student body, this has never been a problem; sophomores
would still have to choose with whom they wanted to live in
suites and apartments, and many off-campus houses and
apartments provide more opportunities for integration into
the community than Gaines or Woods Creek could. Think of
the legendary activities at the Bordello, Aqua Velva, Munster
and the Penthouse.

Also, off-campus housing can provide a very inexpensive
option for those who are under tight budgets. A shared
apartment can be as cheap as $150 a month, including
utilities, and some will give one the option of a nine- or 10-
month lease, for a total which is less than $1500, more than
$300 cheaper than the least expensive on-campus housing.
This is more important for some students than many realize.

v Washington and Lee is well—known for its ﬂexibility and
generous allowances for student life. Many schools ban cars
for freshmen and require housing arrangements much more
stringent than W&L. But that is what we love so much about
our school; its faith in the maturity and responsibility of its
student body. This new proposal would take away from that
basic measure of trust and respect, and would do more harm
than good.

Quote of the Week...

“To whoever folded my laundry...This Bud’s
for you.” '
—A sign in theWoods Creek Apartments
laundry room under a full can of Bud light.
Only at W&L.

OPINION

 

No Roowtras ‘.

The Ringtum Phi, November 11, 1994

    

I O‘{X’

U1-lEl£‘S
THE

/ KEG?

No FUN‘.

@112 ‘itlittg-tttm lﬂlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist. . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

Republican sweep bodes we11for1996

DOUG
TH1EssEN,’95

The Tuesday elections this week
show that America is becoming more
and more conservative, and a
conservative revolution is brewing. Bill
Clinton was elected in 1992 because of
many factors, including opposition to
Bush, but Clinton was still elected on
many conservative ideas, for he was a
“new kind ofDemocrat.” Many voters
in 1992 were indeed upset with the way
Washington was working under Bush,
but even Democrats still opted for a
supposed moderate conservative can-
didate, and since then the American

_ public has been turning the tide toward

conservative candidates. The massive
Republican wins on Tuesday are an
example of this conservative turn.

For several decades, voters have
been electing mostly conservative
Presidents. Finally, with Bill Clinton
giving in to the liberal establishment in
Washington, voters are now even
turning the Congress into a politically
conservative institution.

Throughout the 1980s, many voters
could tolerate their liberal incumbents
because of the pork they brought home
or the power they provided, but in 1992
Bill Clinton was elected as a new kind
of Democrat with new, conservative
and moderate ideas that could
presumably put America back on track.
In 1994, however, voters realized that
re-electing these liberal Democrats
meant more of the same.

Back in 1992, Bill Clinton claimed
that an end to gridlock in Washington
and an end to so-called “divided gov-
ernment” were the answers to
America’s ills. Well, gridlock in Wash-
ington nominally ended, but people are
still dissatisfied with the way the

"'9.

."_,

‘in"cumlie'nts were"

federal government works. The new
kind of conservative Democratic ideas
that Bill Clinton promised did not
materialize, and voters received more
of the same. Amidst all of the political
rhetoric, and,decegti_on,peopleaﬁnally
realized t,ltat,the_s‘e entrenched liberal
the voices they
wanted in Washington, and they
opted overwhelmingly for conser-
vative candidates.

Congress has been politically
conservative for several years now, but
it has remained in Democratic hands
with a liberal leadership. Many of the
Republican wins in both the House and
Senate show an example of the public’s
desire to change this leadership. For
instance, House Speaker Tom Foley, a
long-time liberal Democrat, faced
probably the toughest re-election bid
of the year from newcomer George
Nethercut, a fresh conservative face
that promised real change in
Washington. The race was so close
that many hours after the election, a
winner had not been determined.

Big losses for Democrat incumbents
were House Ways and Means Chair-
man Dan Rostenkowski, powerful
Chairman Jack Brooks of Texas, eigh-
teen-year incumbent Jim Sasser of Ten-
nessee, the most popular Texas Gover-
nor in history, Ann Richards, and the
orator of the left, Mario Cuomo. And
of those liberal Democrats who man-
aged to hold onto their seats in Con-
gress, Majority (soon to be minority)
Leader Dick Gephardt, and perhaps
the biggest symbol of the liberal
establishment, Senator Ted Kennedy,
all squeaked by on Tuesday. Kennedy
won narrowly in the most liberal in
the nation, the People’s Republic
of Massachusetts.

Many pundits say that these races
were tough for these entrenched
incumbents because of the prevailing

“throw the bums out” attitude around
the nation, but these incumbents lost or
faced tough challenges because the
public’s shift towards conservatism.
It is true that somelraces were about

<=<.>r.wp.tpoliti9:anst2tet.themaioritxet   . . .
 V g 5 V ' V‘ X‘ ."‘c_o'nservati,sm‘. Fiscal conservatism,
Bill Clinton and the liberal establishi P

these eté;‘cti'<ms‘v'were 'refer‘eridun'ts'.;ofn’

ment in Washington. Even if the throw
the bums out attitude was prevalent in
the election, it was a throw the liberal
bums out.

Not one Republican incumbent in
the House or Senate lost his/her
re-election bid, in sharp contrast to the

general could offer their ideas in
sharp contrast to the ideas of the
liberal establishment.
During the 1994 campaign,
Republicans and Democrats alike
, campai nedjwith, economic and social

“family values, and less government
were some of the most popular ideas
advocated by both Democrats and
Republicans. On Tuesday, November
8, 1994, Americans cast their ballots in
an extraordinary election that is just
one more step in the direction of
conservatism for America. It is clear

hu e losses the Democrats that as Bill Clinton courts the new
8

incurred. Republi-
Moreover, can ma-
in open jorities in
seats, Re- -T-T-'—  b o t h
publicans houses of
315° SWCP‘ The fact is that Repub- C°"8‘°SS’
the nation , . . hetoowill
in large licans did not win on react to
““"‘‘’‘"§- Tuesday because of anti- ‘his °‘?"‘
The fact 1S _ servative
that Re- mcumbency fever or the shift, and
publicans - g o v e r n
did mm,“ lesser of two etnls, but with the
on Tues— because Americans voted N e w
d b - - - A D

.235. if for Republicans and tdZ‘.I‘s°§i§ZI
anti- in- their ideas over the lib- got him
cumbency bl. h elected. In
me, 0, eral esta is ment. 1996,“-
the lesser ers will
of two decide if
evils, but B i I 1

because Americans voted for
Republicans and theirideasoverthe
liberal establishment. With the
possibility of winning one or
both majorities in Congress,
Republicans no longer had to run
their ideas against the power of
majority candidates. Without the
blurring arguments of political power,
Republicans and conservatives in

Clinton has kept those conservative
promises, and they will vote accord-
ingly. Even if Republicans do not
keep their majorities in Congress or
win the White House in 1996, the coun-
try will havekept on itsconservative
course. Conservatism has been the trend
over the last several decades, and with
the recent elections, it appears as if it is
here to stay.

you.

SPEAK YOUR MIND.

Bring letters to the editor or my views to the Phi
Office, Room 208 of the University Center. You
decide what you want to say, we'll make the space for

    

r+4£ RIN6- rum P+-II.IT’S A Houset-tow NAM-E.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1994

 

 

Andrew Vardaman ’98, Portland,

 

 

OPINION

 

 

 

 

 

 

theme. Directly across from us was a Sonento” in neat dot letteringin differ- day by waitresses lacking most of their
DREAM LAND massive painting of an aerial view of ent colors of paint pen. I personally teeth who speak a language distantly
the Vatican, can't think of a better place to spend a related to English in that the words .
Richard Weaver Other walls in the restaurant were blizzard than in a building decfjirtated “Cheesy W]6SI:im”la[etll(I3] szliime and thte Senlorsll Calyx
decorated with hu e murals of things with oil paintings that you coul urn rest vague y ea s wit ow muc
In conjunction with my favorite like cows in the ltarian countyside and to keep warm. Change Y9" 8°‘ fmm 3 fl“ d°“ar bl" Last cnanceilsenior pictures Calyx make-up photo day will
activity (eating) I decided to make two ascene of anltalian ship surrounded by Where Villa Sor‘r;:¥tXIs<¥e’amshout WhC‘li1:‘)ay‘I‘n%e);(l)1llli1’nCeI;ts‘.C,l(. They have no Wm end on November 13_ Sign up pe ”l}“]uesday, Novembedr 15, fjor all
restaurant stops on the Dream Land what looked like _W 9" W0’ 0’ °_  h T I n in the co-op. F95 ma“ W0me'}a 1" 8P9" 91115,
World Tour this week.ldined at Villa thousandsofants. YOU Walk 1“ the The Wanfefsl-_’v5l° fr ° h €335 ﬁrs FIJI, D6"; andPh1Ka.PP-M3k°‘UP
Sorrento in Roanoke and the Texas Inn Our waitress, ‘ ‘ door, 111:6 Texﬁits Inn Sp::lll( a S[l)l6((2)I:lde(:laae<C3:lh;)e1’St ealgptoérn. p;l(t)1t1OSUWlIl betakén ltl; Room 108
in Lynchburg h f wh?Yasap§§°x" sidreamzndut  ‘bjveforeyyrou even finish sayying those: 0 e mvem y en L
Villa Sorrento is in t e part 0 ma e yage ,ar- , _ , Housin
Roanoke that would be called “the rived at our table The Texas Inn is (l_3IFTTv‘\Il.EI:€S   8 L_b
ghettt‘:;,., ‘r.5“.°r‘1‘;‘r‘,‘1“g;”;,'f,‘,,°d,,,',',‘,f,‘i’:';t,,'ii E:-lgda B|?:k:(t)00I£ smﬁed  waitresses who GINIA RIGHT such an angry tone that you’d think Before leaving for the weekend 1 rary
wes irginia. er ap _ - _ _ . _
the area “the pasture.” Villa Sorrento our pizza orders. speak a language dis '  SOI\J/Ill‘ Ehdrrsytwtaslthihatlvgirrfasriigidiggrsvdgd  her£31:afiireearirerildlierdldrlcfrirgirre r“’yb"rrr Library wr" rrrarrrrarrr
has yourstandard concrete-block exte- A few minutes tantly related I0 English GINIA ,, A trip ,5 thaenr$r:c:::he:' can I thinkgthey do hegatrlfng Systems will function pr0p_ the following hours for Thanksgiv-
nor (a prod?“ of the Schouol of arch’- met shﬁeturnifd in that the words the Texas Inn can this to make the cooks ﬂustered. erly and that there is no freeze dam- ‘"3 break‘ Frrdayi November 18’
recrrrrar desrgr‘ known as The B°'."r’ to meta own 3 “Ch W I ” mean onl one The Texas Inn is best after 3 a.m. age when you return: Don’t turn the close at 6:00 P'rr"; Saturday’ N0‘
Shelter Lookv), Once you stepped in- worried look on eesy 8S 8"! are th. _ on age hum when the hi hes, crass of Lynchburg heating system off tum the them0_ vember 19, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.;
side’ though’ whoa’ there was atotany herjlafce. e er      g1’lyngf:0)l" 8 Cheesy WIDOS has  their  Ill l0WI‘l stat back to mainfain a 55 degree Sunday! November 20: Closed;
' ' Ou V 0
dlff\‘lrreﬂ\;:zfltl:)¢:2l,inthefrontdoor,andwe coine”yin here vaguely deals wrth how We_s'the_m_i‘ mm“ :1I‘lgu(l3g:l]:.df:)::g:]:ié§3e;:.:::-fzfllﬁi; ::;l(L[:‘eAl':lt;1rI‘ee;Clli))eseS(;ll‘C all doors and ‘r>:‘r::1:;Y£1Eg31SI§);'(f<:fl:d:ig,41:r;>6
were immediately struck by an over— again, she said, much change you get . its; efx: ham- there fl min with some Hampdem , . p'm‘;ThurSday and Friday,NOvem_
whelming sensation: we were sur— and order plum d "a b'u_ °°"5r5 ° 3 3 ber 24 and 25, closed; Saturday,
 by   lots of W    4',‘,”" 7... " " '.{,.,;  §z.:'::z.s"i:.:.:;' :;:.:,g:::.':..“:.:.:*::   moo  to we
Huge bunches of white and purple and thte waitress: “ ey ‘V8 Il0”W0f :0mefn_edegg,an& also be there sailing thin mint Gm p.m.; Sunday, November 27, open
gT3P°510°m°d m°“3°"‘3r3,' rr°rr,‘ every °°s" 3' , 3' cleanlmess. some aged relish Scout cookies. Se1f.Assessment noon, resume 24-hour schedule.
nook and cranny. It was just like _the bread, dont say "onahambur C; so if cu,” like me and you,”
‘r"‘° arr“ “W had ma‘ mg °h°""°a' anyu"-"3 '° her :un—andit'so§iy tired or egting things like the roll of Ther will be a Self-Assessment B» ‘ 1
sprrr at Hams r°".‘°' and the iabomét’ bcffa $1: $1.45 (anold-fash- Mentosyou’ve had nexttoyourbedfor Workshop on Tuesday, November lcyc es
rk grapeS- Strmed amckmg customers. gay y ‘ k ” ioned lassbottleofcoke isextra). But a month for dinner, because it doesn’t 15,at4:00 p.m. in Room 109 of the _
Just klddmg - bread by mma er ' ' tﬁ food which I heard some- re "uire etting out of bed make a University Center. All students are There are marry b‘°Y°r°5 in the
we were seated '9 the ba°k.°rrr'° we agrgedm “mam S-‘lent’ f h even lle“ d —-w'th food isonin ” chrzlin e gGet in your car drive past invited to attend. Secrrrrry °rrr°°' rr °rr° Orrrrer“ rs
restaurant (in the designated “HIddel'I- Our waitress, alon_8 with all 0 t e once: ab alllfeeatlin amacppvenessgo Lemiga .Pate Evans Dining Hall and yours, please come by and pick it
AwaC<]))llumpi[S% sdrotttsrr  23‘°§;I.1i§§§‘.f.§i§l§“‘§§°“§§’$'“{i¥.‘I§'§ Eezmrrpsldyztfs ifnd diners inthe restau- make it down the road for some real “P-
en . v . -
" Iggked afgtrie vyalls and every single sweatshirtemblazoned withthephrase rant itself. _ f00d- M3)’b¢ Somﬂhlng 3 rrrrre
one of them had a distinctly Italian “I Survived the Blizzard of ’93 at Villa The Texas Inn IS staffed 24 hours a Cl-IEESY. Loans Flu Shots
, Influenza vaccine is available at
, In S binddandéieed cash 8:8"? the Studentllealth Centerfor$5.00.
4. C311 I 5 5"’ em mergency 3" Th acc'ne hel s revent ﬂu and
L 211‘  a1 Id  O    aSh1I1 OI1 Commit“ f°r “'19- They will W base nrininlzai sidepefacts. stop by or
3 9 View your application and hand call Student Health at 840] for fur-
. you a check. Call Paul Wright at the, information
TIIE F BIIDDI E on disallowing insurance companies from estab— crats with George I3us_h, that is, passing, over and 4834360 Or Adam Brarrso"
1 AR lisl.ing disqualifying pre—existing conditions, mak- over, legislation which is perfectly reasonable Just so
ing health care more portable and limiting ma.l;li‘ral<‘:— the presidﬁnt hasfto y’eto it_.dThte president then be- _ C t.
Alex Christensen tice awards, even without pnorconsu ting wit t e comesa o~not ing presi en. . onstruc Ion
n... ., . "'°:.'.:‘°'.:‘-.*:°%=‘:":-"-'°.:° ....E";.:::’:.::::.‘**:';;2“::::‘.:.':'::’.:::;*.;::.::°.:;:'.t’.; D-C-mp
Well, I don’t know about you 0 , ut was wo w le egls 3 l0ﬂ.¢SP°°_13 Yw . . ’ - - The new Science Center Project
4 extremely pleased with the results of this election. it would be all he would be likely to get. h ‘ theirfnominee.}You.:go‘ulg::l:o)Ib:per1f/fgély jllsllfled Student activites is Sponsoring Construction site is active and be_
True, I would prefer a different Speaker of the The Larry Scenario would mean thatt e presi- in re emng o resi . « amp“) Washington D_C_t0 Seethe coming more active everyday. Ex-
House than Newt Gingrich, but I think that in spite of dential campaign, or at least_much of it, could be 3. The Curly Scenanlcw. h M Sc _ b t National Symphony Orchestra at Heme Caution Should be taken in
hissometlmesoutrageouspublicremarks,hehasshown foughtsepaiatelyfiomthebusinessofgovemaiice— _ This scenario is simi artcli) e oe enano, ii] the Kennedy Center on Saturday the area Ofthe bridge by the de”.
a talent for keeping the Republicans in line and could always, in my opinion, a good thing. Detenmning it starts with a Repu ifcan COIfl:rgI‘eSSIO:ll:l November 12. The Cost is only Students Should avoid being on the
- work well with President Clinton on important issues, whether the Larry Sce- 51¢‘; §Ctl0_“ _ Om _ ° $20 00 Tickets are on sale in Room bridge during normalworking hours
r‘ as he did last Year wrrrr NAFTA‘ There are also a few nario is "1. effect. win ‘"133 blpagia-Ir~]%mp' d 103.of‘the University Center on a as there are trucks moving through
races I wish had gone the other way, Such 35 T¢X8S f10”3¢P°55|bI¢ “migrate ‘ ‘ -'——'j""""— lrer. d ’ Em‘ ﬁrs, come, first Served basis this area_
Governor Ann Richards’, California State Treasurer in lIih99.5. _ id 333?]: livnilgi 3:te‘3"\‘3h5it“:
Kathleen Brown’s and Massachusetts usinessman isscenanowou . . - 1 _
Mitt Romney’s, but I can suck it up [and move on, all}? also mean that \;'then- ....while lH1llary Clmton 8 vl~:Eil:ls(¢i:,sttl;tRFe:pSi;li:l£zi£s
h full th Democrats and Re ub icans canaswe . ever you sawapa icu- now ' _ '
r ergo, wrliatrs next in Washingtgn? The way I see it, larly reasonable ex- Ic, agit of the tally ‘right-wingzjvvtackty
there are three possibilities, which I will call, for the ample ofbipartisanship P . , y . , 1f‘«g15:111;>" 3_|('jn9t,3 8:’ ‘
Sake of clarity, “mm,” «Moe,» anq ¢ClII'ly_” occur ii:dWashtington, quesﬂon, off the table, tIIlgCllif"0I':SlwgIllleOI;
1. Th La Sce rio. you cou urn 0 your - _ _ _
President rCrl{intonI:aSpeaker Gingrich and Majority companion and say, agnd past savlng’ both begin _h1S Wh1S‘1¢‘§I°P
W Leader Dole meet before January and plot a strategy “lfldyé how Larry 8lde8 sould ﬁnd the areas $u1é,‘:i;’Irt)lIt:’>2V:\":Il1($zI::=‘:|rn%[j
- o u I ‘ .” C I
forlrleal blPamSa'nSh“Co Id vote Clinton the O 2 "I“he Moe In whlch they agree and Amcfica, 10 argue ‘hill
-P0“ convening’ Pgresr 00“ - « ° ' ' work from there Senator the Democrats areaDo-
line-item veto as promised in their Contract with Scenanon . , ° _ _ Co Th_
America.” This would mean {hat the Coliiigress woutlld h _Blill Cli¥on decide: Dale 8 proposals, whgch iI‘sr(t)|:l;I(l;§ly wr;g’rt¢:lsiss.stmis
‘_ cutout the left-wing pork,Cinton wou cut outt e eis airy 'ruman,an. he backed awa om
P°rKwt=m*8h'P°rP°*"a*°bv1°=Ps and we aewm-W “"5 1, the 1 £2‘ r’ he  5:2:
bounds the progress Clinton has started on decreasing wogld be a mistallée. _ orel de ﬁfe on w n alien concept in pomics
the budget deﬁcit. Ah, the joys of divided government. . inton_wou , in rea ize it made _ a
The GATT trade agreement could sail through the this.scenano, pose 8_5 w0Uld an to be s“T_°. but 1" Cilﬂtnog
Congress_ with no tension whatsoever (take that, willing to embrace. bi- sense: . gate “and §v*:)r‘]3(“ 3 °
* Fntz Ho1Imgs!). panisansiup._He might excellent starting place. Thai C I Sc- .
Welfare refonn could be worked out between the get_the line-item_veto, M9 “LY 99?“?
President and the Republicané, probably inla Ii‘/tlary wolgﬁh woulgl still tr  Cl?[’1<:(f)n t:r;’»i':;ve‘:)‘:
sensible compromise between linton’sjust-s ig ty- g news. e wou _ _ 2
left-of-cemerpmgmm andthe Repubﬂcansrwayrﬁgmr Pmbablygressmen wg2r'l'I' d h ther diocrea roval ratin Ongﬁdglgitdlgse filfrtrlftrlfaxrilsrfr
. . . am _ _
r s)ifrriciIi[i1iEietieFs:rt(l)iri)i?$i’ildvliiecbllgifdletllelerlyapiroflﬁildirvrarryfirf igtdie Sir" two rbgfore :: stai1erder at): become ence of scenarioﬁthat, even now, you can feel
boil, sides were willing, - publicly belligerent. free to call Newt Gingrich “Curly.” _
On the health care front, while Hillary Clinton’s Gradually, he would stop communicating with . _All of this is of course compligatedby. the Lpeosjsb
proposals are now completely out of the question, off Congress and would start to veto Republican initia- bllllly that Sbpfﬁker G;ngnch ag tN[3]r(l)JItt);1e naaaer
of the table and past saving, both sides could find the tives withputlworkiiig WIth.:ll‘le(I:Ill.a: all. Yoiawggld lc)o1:_ni:i)ayhm E H £1011“ loerliré Election but if
i 'n which the agree and work toward some see aw ist e-stop our wi in on an re . e I _ - _ 3
gfiirblehealthrefonri.SenatorDole’sproposals,which asdestmctive. they let that deter them from bipartisanship, W_e
he backed away from before the election when he The Republicans, however, would not,roll over. should boot them all out and draft ColinPowell. This
realized they actually made sense, would be an excel- Though they could not ovemde Clinton s vetoes, would be known as the Shemp Scenario...
lent starting place. Congress could pass aseriesof laws they would adopt the strategy used by the Demo-
1
O
i Interviews and Photos
By Hans Yao
I
0 o 0 9
Do you consider yourself politically aware and why .
I
I.
4.
I

Bridget Mc Coy ’97, Aston, PA -
“For the most part. I keep up with
the news and I read the papers.”

Aaron Brotlierton ’98, Charles-
ton, WV - “Sure, I'm just not as
active as I’d like to be.”

Melba Merritt ‘ ’97, Radford, VA
— “Yes, I try and keep up with
political issues, especially during
election years.”

Nova Clarke ’96, Miami, FL -
“Yes, I’m the president of the
College Democrats.”

Professor John M. Gunn, Wash-'
ington and Lee University,retired-
“Yes, I’m an economist by trade and
the political scene affects my job.”

TX - “No, I haven’t watched the
-news since I’ve been here.”

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1994

OPINION

PAGE 8

New mailboxes installed, will increase campus communication

LETTERS

To the editor:

I want to take this time and space to
infrom the W&L community about the
NEW MAIL BOXES FOR ALL
CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS
which are located outside of my office,
Room 103 of the University Center. I
had these mailboxes built in an effort to

you who take the time to use and check
them...PLEASE USE AND CHECK
THEM!!! Stop by to look at them and/
or ﬁnd your club/organizationmailbox;
there are additional mailboxes so if you
are a University sponsored club/orga-
nization and I have forgotten you, let
me know by stopping in or calling

open up communication on campus. I
realize there is a need for student mail-
boxes as well, but that will come in
time, I hope! These mailboxes will open
up communication, at least amongst
the clubs and organizations, for all of

462-4111.

Thank
Michelle Richardson,
Student Activities Coordinator

y0ll,

STUDENT BODY NOTICE

from the Executive Committee

A member of the Student Body has been found guilty of a violation
of the Honor System in that the student lied regarding the investigation
of an automobile accident. That student has chosen to withdraw from
the University.

Christensen detracts from rational debate, feeds name calling

To the editor.

It always hopelessly muddles rational de-
bate when liberals call conservatives Nazis and
conservatives call liberals Communists. In fact,
these terms have become almost meaningless
through their misuse. In his article, “The Far
Middle,” Alex Christensen calls Oliver North a
“faux-Southem Hitler wannabe.” Come now,

W&L lacks adequate policy on homosexual discrimination

Alex, aren’t we exaggerating a little bit? In the
same article, the author calls Oliver North,
Jerry Falwell, and Pat Robertson the “new
vanguard of intolerance in America.” Intoler-
ance. This is a word leftist politicians like to
throw around in order to curry favor with the
media, and the media like to throw around in
order to preen themselves on their self-pro-

claimed “progressive” viewpoint. Typically,
those who call others “intolerant” do not debate
the slandered persons on particular issues; they
just like to call names. And here in this article,
the author offers no evidence as to the supposed
intolerance of these three men.

I myself am not speaking form a necessarily
conservative viewpoint. Many would call me

far right, some would call me far left, I’m sure,
and others would call me a radical centrist.I dub
myself libertarian; in other words, a proponent
of, “Get the government out.” Liberals wonder
what will happen to the poor, and conservatives
wonder what will happen to morality, without
government interference. Some form of tyr-
anny, in my viewpoint, is not the proper method

for achieving one’s social goals.But back to the 3
original point, I am criticizing those who throw
labels around irresponsibly. We need to stop
criticizing certain personalities and start dis-
cussing specific policies. Otherwise, all politi-
cal debate is virtually useless. ;

Jason Sorens ’98

    
   
   
   
   
     
     

To the editor:

I am writing in response to the article in the October 14
Ring-tum Phi regarding The Princeton Review Student
Access Guide to the Best 306 Colleges.

While the Princeton Review survey identiﬁed many
traits of which Washington and Lee can be proud, the fact
that W&L ranked fourth in the nation in the category of
“Gay Students Ostracized/Discriminated Against” is a dis-
grace to this University. Equally disturbing was the compla-
cent response of Dean of Students David Howison that “On
such a traditional campus there is a reluctance to accept
other lifestyles.”

Dean Howison’s characterization of gay or lesbian sexual
orientation as “other lifestyles” suggests that he does not
understand that being gay or lesbian is not a lifestyle choice.
Gay men and lesbians constitute an extremely diverse
segment of society and lead an equally diverse array of
lifestyles. In fact, some gay men and lesbians are Washing-
ton and Lee students. Their lives are no different from those

‘ of other students here except for the fact that they live in an

environment in which they must either conceal an important

part of their lives or risk facing ostracism and abuse. By
saying that it is “other” lifestyles that this “traditional
campus” is reluctant to accept, Dean Howison implies that
being gay or lesbian pertains only to the lives of people
outside this University and has played no part in the institu-
tions that make this campus a traditional one. He is
doubly mistaken.

J eb and Dash:/l Diary of GayLife, 1 918-1 945 is a book
published last year detailing the true story of two gay men
who met as Washington and Lee students in 1918. While it
is probable that these two men and the gay students they
knew at W&Lwere not the first to attend this University, my
point is to illustrate that the presence of gay students here is
at least as old as many traditional aspects of life at W&L. Jeb
Alexander's diary sheds some light on what it was like to be
a gay Washington and Lee student in 1918, but the difficul-
ties faced by gay men and lesbians at W&L are not unique
to that era.

I have personally talked to several gay and lesbian
alumni of which this University can and should be unquali-
fiedly proud. Yet nearly all of them were forced to either

keep their sexual orientation a secret while at W&L or face
ridicule and persecution.

If the presence of gay men and lesbians at Washington
and Lee is nothing new, forcing them to remain “in the
closet” also seems to be a tradition at W&L. It is one of
which we should all be ashamed.

When gay and lesbian students at Washington andLee
are not treated with the same respect and dignity as other
students, the University has a duty to address the problem.

In fact, the undergraduate college of this University has
done relatively little to ensure fair treatment of its gay and
lesbian students. ‘

While the law school has a commendable policy of non-
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in admis-
sions and all other policies and programs, the undergraduate
college has done nothing to stop harassment of gay and
lesbian students and does not include sexual orientation in
its non-discrimination policy statement.

Some would respond by saying that a non-discrimination
policy is unnecessary because they see no evidence of anti-
gay discrimination on the campus, but that response ignores

To lrnow everything that ‘
goes on in Lexington (and
maybe a little more) ,

subscribe to

The Ring-tum Phi.
It's only 25 dollars for the

rest of the year.
Call us at (703) 462-4060

l'0 5Ub5CI'lDE.

the fact that hate crimes and harassment of gay men and ;
lesbians often go unreported. They do exist. But why would
gay and lesbians students at W&L seek to bring attention to
the fact that they are harassed?

In this environment, acknowledging the victim’s sexual
orientation is itself dangerous to that victim. Just as the
University has sought to address the problem of date rape,‘
whose victims are also often reluctant to report the crime,
the best way to prevent harassment on the basis of sexual
orientation is through education. Only by educating its
students on sexual orientation issues can this school effec-
tively change the attitudes that make bigotry toward gay!
men and lesbians socially acceptable. For the University to
ignore the issue and wait for students to risk coming forward
to report abuse only continues to send the message to gay
and lesbian students and their would-be harassers-——that
Washington and Lee tolerates such behavior. ,
Steve Powell, ’96L
Co-Founder, Washington and Lee
Committee on Gay and Lesbian Legal Issues

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 11, 1994

  Hams1eete

MENS Low PRICES!

IN THE DELI
PREMIUM

PIZZAS

:1.

 
  
     

    

M
I P

 T‘   PEPPERONI
‘  =  vE<3(E)TRAgE
I   DELU

I     EA. 0

  WH'TE_0“_ 9  PIEXZLEOOR2 
  CHEESE...Y.E.L.L.CiYa.3o CHEESE cRIsI=s§SE .

  HARRIS TEETER

4. ,
4' * ""' x
4 .»I"~
.'5j.¢..M :E:jr’r'.~?'
‘ R  W“ J1 C 

I r‘

N
"N

HALF
GAL.

1.99

PHILADELPHIA REGUSLARSA    
CREAM CHEESE...s oz.

 

lTRoRICANAIRRENIDNAEI

, ORANGE ]U|:cE...6\ﬁR|é(::..

1.69

 89 J

  Athletes
of the Week

  

   

Cheryl Taurassi

Drew Thomas

Junior setter Cheryl Taurassi has broken most of the
assist records that exist at Washington and Lee. She
broke the school’s match record with 47 in W&L’s
semiﬁnal loss to Bridgewater last weekend.

Last year Taurassi brok the single season mark with
526 assists and set the career record earlier this year, and
after this season, she has 1,437 assists.

Football kicker Drew Thomas came up to the chal-
lenge against Guilford College, nailing the school-record
47-yard ﬁeld goal in the second quarter. He also added a
43-yard ﬁeld goal to give the Generals a six-point lead in
the second half.

Thomas earned the honors for ODAC Offensive Player

4 of the Week for his efforts.

EDD |]T‘ESETlTS

ETQQTIE and Th: DIQIIIFISIT
]7EI:EIII|JEr ZnLI,1E|ULI

S5 in ELTIIEREE
S1|] ET ThE[|.Q.QF

SARA LEE

BAGELS

   

17OZ. “

Uttrgnrdtn EUEIIEIJLE Fer 11195: with |JI‘9|J§l‘ 1.17.

  
  

THE RING-TUM PHI. $FoR LOWEST AIRFARES cALL$

 
     

   

G

   

REAT VALUES
En/oy

ware‘

. Tnuleumrlns (I37 ’

    

   
 

   

 

.E'“.‘'. ‘ LEA. ' .
" ““s"I'.i,'.‘§.',if,'E.“' Igoistvttgggg
‘ SELECTED VARIETIES OOIEE
J H I  K -CAFFEINE FREE
COKECIASSIC
' 6 PK.
I ‘ 7-II oz. 2TII?sZ' .
_KLEENEX PRESIDENTS’ CHOICE Iu~cEo~ 3 5
  DOUBLE RoII3.H.l.99 G.R.E.E.N. NAPK|NS.4ocI./ 2
I<EERLER-ASSORTED ~ PRESIDENT'S CHOIUCUEEW   3
  WHEATABLES....6.702.1.69 COOK|ES.f??.%‘@s-sE.‘.2oz.T. 9

 ‘ PRICES IN THIS AD EFFECTIVE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9 THROUGH TUESDAY, NOVEMBER T5, 1994 IN OUR Lexington STORES

ONLY. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO LIMIT QUANTITIES. NONE SOLD To DEALERS. WE GLADLY ACCEPT FEDERAL FOOD STAMPS.

HGIIISTBBIBI

 

V WE STILL COME

97   TLC TRAVEL
Airline Reservatigglélizr Ticketing Center
YEARS OLD AN D 453-S2 197

   
    

Amtrak - Tours - Cruises - Hotel/ Car

 
    

Student Discounts May Apply
Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Saturday 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
All Major Credit Cards Accepted

16 W. Washinton St.

ATTENTION SENIORS:
YEARBOOK PICTURES END

FRIDAY
NOVEMBER
  18TH

 
    

ONCE A WEEK

    

 

 

   

Last Week:

WATER Pouo-def. Queens 15-14, lost to Navy 18-4,
Brown 10-5

CROSS CouN'rBY- (W)- let of 4 at ODAC Championships

(M)- 1st of 6 at ODAC Championships
F00lBAI.L- defeated Guilford 13-7
VOLLEYBALL-def Emory & Henry 3-0; lost: to
Bridgewater 3-2

PAGE 10

one mug-mm iﬂlri

SPORTS  

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL

This Week:

CC- Southeast Regional at Emory (M&W) (Sat.)

SWlMMING- Centre

F0o'rBA1.L- at Swarthmore

u

November 11, 1994

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

So much for scheduling
Washington and Lee on
Guilford’s Homecoming.

The powerful Quakers, with a
record of 7-1 entering the game,
ﬁgured the ﬁfth place Generals
would be no problem, and, as a
result, sceduled W&L for Home-
coming, assuming the large
crowd would be sent home happy.
They did this despite the fact that
the Generals poundedthe Quak-
ers on Homecoming the last time
they visited Greensboro, North
Carolina.

Who says lightning can’t
strike twice in the same place?

The Generals stunned
Guilford and the crowd of 5,300
with a thrilling 13-7 victory,
W&L’s ﬁfth straight triumph in
the state of North Carolina over-
all and second this season.

“It was fantastic,” said junior
defensive tackle Robert Hull. “It
was something we knew we could

be doing.”

“It felt great,” said freshman ~

defensive tackle Omar Moneim.
“It was the best football game
l’ve ever seen.”

Head coach gary Fallon
agreed.

“It was the most exciting game
l’ve seen in my 17 years here,”
he said.

Washington and Dec evened
its record at 4-4 (2-3 in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference)
with its third consecutive win,
and fourth in the last ﬁve games
after three straight losses to open
the season in which the Generals
scored a grand total of two points.

To make the defeat even more
bitter for Guilford, the Quakers
were eliminated from the ODAC
title hunt with the loss, handing
the title to Emory and Henry.

Three times Guilford drove
inside the W&L 20 yard line in
the last four minutes of the game,
only to have the Generals’ de-
fense thwart the penetration each
time.

“I expected it (the defensive

stand),” Hull commented. “The
defense has been playing well
for two years now.”

Fallon congratulated the de-
fense for its effort.

“All eleven guys wanted the
ball to come to them,” he said.

With the Generals clinging to
a 13-7 lead, Guilford drove down
inside the 20 with under four
minutes left, but the Quakers were
halted by Stephen Cox’s fumble
recovery.

Following an interception, the
Quakers plunged all the way
down to the Generals’ three with
less than two minutes to play.
However, quarterback Santes
Beatty was picked off by junior
Rich Achee, which appeared to
seal the game.

The Quakers were not throw-
ing in the towel yet, though. De-
spite being out of timeouts,
Guilford got the ball back and
covered nearly half the ﬁeld in-
side the ﬁnal minute.

The Quakers ‘reached the
W&L 15 before Beatty’s pass
intended for wide receiver Jun-

Water Polo gets best ﬁnish

This third and ﬁnal contest would not

ior Lord fell incomplete in the
end zone on the game’s ﬁnal
play.

“Guilford hung in there and
kept coming back,” said Fallon.

Kicker Drew Thomas was
named ODAC Offensive Player
of Week, thanks in large part to
his school record 47 yard ﬁeld
goal in the second quarter, which
put the Generals on top 3-0.

Guilford returned fire on
Beatty’s 11 yard touchdown pass
to Dan Montgomery to give the
Quakers a 7-3 advantage late in
the second quarter.

As it has happened so often in
the past few games, the combi-
nation of quarterback Brooks
Fischer and wideout William
Propst clicked again midway
through the third quarter.

Propst, who had another ter-
riﬁc game with ten catches for
133 yards, reeled in a 34 yard
toss from Fischer to propel the
Generals back in front, 10-7.

Fischer, who leads the ODAC
in completion percentage at 52.6
percent had another solid outing

with 17 completions in 30 at-
tempts for a total of 179 yards.

Proving his first ﬁeld goal was
no ﬂuke, Thomas blasted home
a43 yarder early in the fourth
quarter, extending the margin to
13-7 and setting up the ﬁnal fran-
tic minutes.

W&Lsweptthe ODACPlayer
of the Week category, as Hull
was named the Defensive Player
of the Week after dominating the
Quakers for 12 tackles, ﬁve of
them for losses.

Defensive back Stuart Hogue
and linebacker Butler Ball each
added 10 tackles.

Senior Jon Wagner inter-
cepted his fourth pass of the year
to compliment his six tackles.
Wagner also leads the Generals,
who currently are in second place
in the league in scoring and pass-
ing defense, with eight passes
broken up.

W&L opponents are averag-
inga mere 13.75 points per game
this season.

Washington and Lee voyages
up to Swarthmore, Pennsylvania

Football continues to roll; surprises Guilford

this Saturday for their season ﬁ-
nale to wage battle with the 3-6
Swarthmore Garnet.

The only time the Generals
and the garnet have previously
faced each other was back in
1914, when W&L whitewashed
Swarthmore 10-0 in Lynchburg.

That 1 914 W&L football team
went undefeated at 9-0 and
outscored its opposition 324-12,
including the whopping scores
of 103-0, 72-0, and 69-0.

Fallon wants the Generals to
concentrate on this season, how-
ever, and he cautions against a
letdown.

“We need to come back down
to earth,” he said. I “They
(Swarthmore) are a capable team
and have great team speed. It’s
going to be a pretty good game.”

Hull hopes that the Generals’

. momentum will continue into the

final game, as well as into next
season.

“Obviously, we want a win-
ning season,” he said. “Hope-
fully, we can carry it into next
season and a conference title.”

 

By Kern: Gruwr
Phi Staff Writer

When your team concludes its best
season ever as the fourth best team on the
Eastern -Seaboard, two words best sum
up the feeling.

“We're back.”

The W&L water polo squad made
head coach Page Remillard’s decision to
compete for the Eastern Seaboard Cham-
pionship pay-off with a fourth place ﬁn-
ish. The Generals defeated Queens 15-14
in the opening round, before falling to
Navy and host Brown.‘

The win over Queens clinched W&L’s
best ﬁnish in school history, making the
team’s ﬁrst-ever losing record nearly in-
signiﬁcant.

The Generals (10-13) earned a num-
ber-20 ranking nationally, proving, as

Remillard said, “Washington and Lee‘

water polo is back.”

The Generals were the two-time de-
fending champions of the EWPA Divi-
sion III tournament and would have likely
added a third straight title had they cho-
sen to compete for it this year.

However, W&L’s third place finish at
the EWPA Southeast Regional Playoffs
two weeks ago earned it the right to
compete for the Eastern Seabord title,
with the possibility of going on to the
national championship tournament.

The Generals opened the tournament
tied with Queens at number 19 in the
nation. The squads had met twice on the
opening weekend of the season, with
W&L winning 11-10, then losing 19-7
that same day.

be decided until the very end.

The game was so tight that the scores
for each quarter were even in all but the
second, when W&L took a 9-8 lead to
halftime.

With the game knotted at 14, the Gen-
erals’ Bryan Drum scored the winner on
a counterattack play that Remillard had
put into their scheme that very week.

“That win was a good indicator of our
season,” said Remillard.

Sophomore James Silberstein netted
four goals to lead a balanced Generals
attack.

Juniors Frank Bradenand Drum scored
three each, while junior Rich Cober and
sophomore Peter Sorenson added two
apiece. Senior Ruben Munger rounded
out the scoring.

In goal, senior All-American David
Silvester was as solid as ever in stopping
19 shots.

With 25 more blocks in the losses to
Navy and Brown, Silvester set a school-
record in reaching the 300 save mark for
the season. ‘

“[Silvester] was a major force in our
success,” Remillard said. “Had he not
risen to the occasion, this ﬁnish wouldn’t
have been possible.”

Just as big in the tournament was
Sorenson. The second-team All-East se-
lection scored seven goals in the three
games, including four of the Generals’
ﬁve versus Brown.

The defensive star added four steals in
the Queens game and three against Brown.

“In the big wins [Princeton, Villanova]
be shut their stars down,” said Remillard.

Sorenson was W&L’s leader in scor-

ing, assists, and in what Remillard calls
“hustle points.” These are computed by
subtracting points given for negative plays
from points for positive plays.

Another player who stepped up his
play, especially versus Brown, was se-
nior Derek DeVries. DeVries defended
Brown’s top gun for much of the game.

According to Remillard, he was one
of the few Generals who wasn’t worn out
and really came through in that match.

s“[DeVries] did the job,” he said. “De-
rek owned that guy [he guarded].”

In addition to their fourth-place ﬁn-
ish, there are two things the Generals can
be proud of.

One is that W&L jumped higher in the
rankings than any school. The Generals
were not listed in the top 16 in the East at
the start of the season and wound up
number-four.

Along the way, they defeated ﬁve top-
20 teams, and ﬁve teams that they had
previously lost to.

Queens, Richmond, Princeton,
Bucknell, and Villanova all beat the Gen-
erals before later falling victim to them.

The other is that they achieved their
place in school history through a total
team effort. Rarely does a team succeed
without a solid “go-to” top scorer.

“Generally, teams have go-to people,”
said Remillard. “We knew we didn’t have
one.”

Instead, the team focused on assign-
ments and game plans.

‘‘I can think of no time that anyone
disappointed,” said Remillard.

“We knew what to expect from every-
one and took pride in our ability to play as
a team.”

Cross country sweeps men’s,
Women’s titles at ODACS

Volleyball ends season
with Bridgewater loss

By KEITH GRANT

Phi Staff Writer

What had become one of the most popular spectator sports on campus saw its

By ERIC SWENSEN

Phi Staff Writer

For the ﬁrst time in Old Dominion Athletic Conference

history, the conference cross country team titles were swept by
the Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross country

teams.

The men tallied 49 points, eight points better than runner-up
Eastern Menonite, while winning their ﬁrst title in ten years.

The women set an unbreakable record, sweeping the top ﬁve

positions and compiling only 15 points in winning their third

straight ODAC title.

The men’s team was led on this day by a trio of freshmen who

have supplied steady performances all season. Jason Callen was
a very competitive third overall, a mere ﬁve seconds behind the
overall winner, and Will Olson and Taylor Shultz also ﬁnished

in the top ten.

Tucker is betting on a strong showing for his team.
“There is no pressure on us, and if we have everyone there,
healthy, and running up to potential, we have a shot at
ﬁnishing top three,” said the coach.
Callen also sees this race as important for next year.
“This race will show us how much we have to improve,”
said the freshman. “If we ﬁnish strongly, it will give us a lot
of momentum to carry over into training for next year.”
The women’s team turned in a dominant performance on
Saturday, sweeping the top ﬁve overall places for a record for
team score that can’t be broken — 15 points.

This accomplishment is even more impressive consider-
ing the team competed without two of its top runners — junior
Josephine Schaeffer and freshman Maren Wright.

Without question, the rest of the team picked up the slack,
as junior Amy Mears, the overall champion, led a pack of ﬁve
All-ODAC runners from W&L, including sophomore Nat
Messmore, seniors Sue Deutsch and Kim Herring and fresh-

man Carson Flowers.

Olson and Callen also earned All-ODAC status for their

performances.

Women’s coach Jim Phemister couldn’t have been more

satisﬁed.

Junior co-captains Tom Fink and Jeff Zeiger also turned in

solid performances. Fink and Zeiger finished 14th and 17th

overall.

Coach John Tucker was happy with his team ’s performance,

saying, ‘‘I told the guys that if they ran like they had been, they

would win it.”

Top finisher Callen echoed his coach’s sentiments.

“I was veryproud to be on the team. There was a lot of

pressure on us, most of it self-imposed,” said Callen. “We had

a few guys run with some injuries, and while I don’t think we
ran our best race on Saturday, I was proud of how the guys

pulled through.”

“Obviously I am very pleased,” commented Phemister.
“This our third straight ODAC Championship and by the
widest margin yet and ‘the lowest team score ever, and
forever.”
Mears, while not pleased with her individual performance,
was also somewhat surprised by her team’s performance.

“We were really happy with our performance, considering
who we had missing,” said Mears.
The women will also head to Atlanta this weekend with a
deﬁnite chance of qualifying for the National Champion-
ships. Theirtoughest test will come from host Emory Univer-

sity. -

Next up for the team is the NCAA Division III Southeast

Regional at Emory University in Atlanta.

Only one team from the region qualiﬁes for the NCAA

National Championships, and Christopher Newport is the over-

whelming favorite inthe team competition.

Other top contenders include Mary Washington, Emory, and

Eastern Mennonite.

Both Mears and Phemister like their team’s chances to
qualify, especially with a full squad.

Said Mears, ‘‘I think we have a good chance, a very
realistic hope of qualifying for Nationals.”

Phemister agreed, commenting, “We didn’t run with
Josephine or Maren Wright, but they’ll be ready to run at the

Regionals.

The Generals, however, ranked number two in the region,

-_ could pull offthe upset with a strong team effort.

“We’re set, we’re psyched and we hope to do it all at the
regionals.”

season come to an end Saturday at the Warner Center as Washington and bee’s
volleyball team lost in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference semiﬁnals.
The Generals were beaten by Bridgewater in a breath—taking ﬁve-game -

marathon, 3-2 (11-15, 15-6, 15-9, 9-15, 18-16).

“It was a great season,” said head coach Tern’ Dadio. “We basically accom-
plished everything we had hoped to achieve at the start of the season.”

The Generals (19-8) ﬁnished the regular season tied for second with
Bridgewater, one of only two ODAC opponents to defeat the Generals.

Entering the tournament as the number-three seed and the host school
provided W&L with an excellent opportunity to reach the championship match.
But after whipping Emory and Henry in the opening round, the Generals fell in
a tremendously emotional contest to the Eagles, who had beaten W&L 3-1 in the
ﬁrst week of the season.

Dadio’s second year at the helm was still a landmark season for the Generals.
The school-record 19 win season included win streaks of four, ﬁve, and six.
W&L also posted a nine-match win streak versus ODAC opponents.

Even in the defeat, 1994 continued to be a record-breaking season as junior
Cheryl Taurassi picked up a school single-game record of 47 assists against

Bridgewater. W&L as a team had just 50. She now owns the game, season, and

career W&L assists records, and was named W&L’s Athlete of the Week.

The semiﬁnal with Bridgewater will long be remembered by those who were

a part of it. After the Generals won two strai
forced a fifth and deciding game.
Playing in a rally scoring format, Bridgewater took an early lead and seemed

ght games for a 2-1 lead, the Eagles

in control ahead 14-11, one point from the match. W&L responded by pulling

within one point of a ﬁnals berth, but the Eagles came from behind again for the
18-16 victory. ,
Freshman Hillary Martin had 20 kills to lead the Generals. Sophomore

Elizabeth Bahn had 11, while junior Chrissie Hart and Freshman Holly Thomsen

Generals.

had 10 kills apiece, plus a team-leading 18 and 20 digs, respectively.
In her ﬁnal game at W&L, lone-senior Jennifer “Goose” Garrigus
recorded eight kills, a team-high four aces, and 17 digs for the

In the opening round, the Generals crushed Emory & Henry in a match that

barely lasted 45 minutes. The win (15-6, 15-1, 15-2) extended to ﬁve a win steak

in which the Generals did not lose a single game.
It was all-the-more crushing when considering just three weeks earlier W&L
topped the Wasps in a competitive three-game match (15-13, 16-14, 18-16).
Bahn, Martin, and Thomsen led the Generals with seven kills each, with

Taurassi adding 18 assists. Junior Allison Hull had three aces.

With the exception of four-year starter Garrigus, the entire Generals’ squad

returns next year, giving hope for another historic season.

  

’,

2

1'

3

¥

