we 1. use Lirawu-1-.'r‘(
:..z~e/r:':~nt rt-:>-=, an ,.
9' i‘ -Eu.’
ta’ J

till? a 

 

  

     

|Wéekend Weather]
ostiy sunny. High 75°.-t. t

 

COFFEEHOU

SE

number two

Nudes ARRIVE um Lex Men's Lax readies for
ANCI plAy W&L
  Page 3 Gettysburg

Page 8

 

44% 2?.

he Et1tg—t11m lﬂht

 

VOLUME 35, N0. ,1?

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

     

MARCH 17, 1995’

~ keep Rush
0
~ 111 3 term
have taken.
By MICHAEL HEWLEIT Batteh said he wanted communica-
i“ Phi Staff Wm" tion between faculty and fraternities.
K The swapping of views between frater-
Fraternity members will lobby nity membersand facultycanonly help
Washington and Lee’s faculty in an matters, he said.
effort to save Fall Rush. An English professor, who asked
IFC President Kevin Batteh asked not to be identified, said the faculty’s
4 fraternities Tuesday night to talk to main concern is that Fall Rush takeson
faculty about the merits of Fall Rush. an exaggerated importance. He said
Batteh passed out a list of voting and during rush, freshmen forget that their
non-voting faculty members to frater— primary reason for being at W&L is
nity house representatives. getting an education. Winter Rush
The action comes in response to last would allow freshmen to see fr"atemi-
Y ,week’s non-binding faculty vote in tiesassecondary in importancetotheir
support of Winter Rush. The faculty education.
voted 83-3 after Professor Tom Will- Professor of English George Ray
iams moved to adopt a deferred rush. agreed.
The Student Affairs Committee had “We do have the long-standing tra-
tt requested a sense-of-the-faculty vote dition of self-govemance,” he said.
to see how faculty members thought “When conditionsexistwhichimpinge
about deferred rush. on students’ academic performance,
IFC and the majority of fraternity the faculty should and has an obliga-
members oppose Winter Rush. Last tion to intervene and provide direction
week, Batteh said Winter Rush would for the students.”
4 hurt fraternitiesﬁnancially because the Although many students have la-
houses would have to pay more for mented a loss of student autonomy,
_ A rush activities. He argued that Winter Ray refuted that argument, citing a
' t — -~‘=‘_ Rush would keep freshmen away from passage from the faculty handbook:
P"°‘° by 5°53’ G’““’ The R”'3"“’" H" their activities because they would feel “The faculty shall be responsible
. . . . ressure to s nd time at their favorite for the academic re ulation of students,
‘I A llttle blt of Irlsh Llt for St. Patty's  iiouse. Fratefneity members would ex- forentranceandgrzﬁluaterequirements,
, _ r en more energy to attract students to for the approval and supervision, of
" ‘ ‘ ‘ V - _ t ’ I J I _ ' their housesin order to maintain’house courses of study, for the recommenda-
The Washington and Lee University Bookstore displays a wide variety of Irish-related books for St. Patrick s Day. numbers’ he satd_ Batten Said during non ofstudents for degrees’ and forthe
Any of the books would be perfect for reading while drinking some green beer. pan Rush, unnetolasstnon conic give “S RU SH 2
V ’ freshmen advice on the classes they ee ’ page

. Sig Ep, Phi Psifight  

One Phi Psi pledge is arrested after scufﬂe

I
By MICHAEL “W” 3$?£§dr‘£’..§'i°EZc‘i‘?n”2“J§§e?‘2.’.§l I‘.l"c’a‘..“"y°§‘.’f. Eh‘Z.§.'Z"§.ii§“‘.§§‘} himciiﬁi S§‘J§’T"i?.§li‘i‘i’.§£’w“if2iL‘
Phi Staff Wm“ rushed the group; began arguing, he said. off and swung at him. Then the
Thrall said he arrived sober at Thrall said he doesn’t know police arriiijed. d k f
the Si E party around 11:30 how the argument started, but he Cox sai he oesn’t nowi
‘ I Afreshman spent the nightin p.m. Aifterphe hadafew drinks of began ﬁghting with one of the Thrall was drunk when he ar-
jail after being involved ina ﬁght grain alcohol, he became intoxi- pledges. rived at the party or not. He said
at Sigma Phi Epsilon Saturday cated. Thrall said he talked to After hitting someone, he be- Thrall resisted Six Ep members
night. some of the Sig Ep pledges for a came disoriented and started asked him to leave. He threw
Lexington police arrested while and then moved to the swinging at people, he said. punches at anyone who was near
V. freshman John Thrall last Satur- dance floor. Some Sig Ep mem- Freshmen Matt Graves said him, Cox said.
day and charged him with public bers asked to move away from Thrall was on the ground scuf- He said someone punched
drunkenness. the speakers. fling with an upperclassmen who Thrall and he fell. .
Lexington police officer Fred He said he ended up laying on had broken up the fight. Thrall Graves said he holds no hard
Smith said he arrived at Sig Ep at a near-by pool table and stayed hit former Sig Ep president John feelings against Thrall.
3 approximately 2:30 a.m. there until 2:15. After people Cox and about five other people, “Itwas just him being drunk,”

He said Sig Ep members had

Student

started clearing out of the frater-

he said. '

he said.

puts together

record of W&L fight songs

From STAFF REPORTS

ton and Lee Hymns.”

Weaver said.

    

EC redoes freshman
Honor Code video

"‘ The impetus for the OVCF 2,000 Copies Of
The most popular football ﬁght song in project came from a men— For W&Ll Yellhave been
American college history ﬁnally hasachance tion in the Summer 1994 pressed and will be given B R H beingtumedin byaprofessor. lttracked the process
to hit the Top 40 charts. W&L Alumni Magazine to Vlsllmg alum“ °‘{°' _ y “T” , ENRY_ that the Executive Committee would follow in any
Richard Weaver, a junior from .Vero about a collection of 78s Alumni Weekend. Copies Phlcoﬂmbulmg WW’-T honor violation circumstance, but used this sce-
ir Beach, Florida, has put together an album and LPs donated to the uni- will also be sold at the nano as an examnte_
called For W&L I Yell: a collection of re— versity bythe Hon. Bleakley W&L b00l<St0ff3 ‘and at The Executive Committee plans to have a new The new video would also include a simulation,
cordings of “The Washington and Lee James, ’50L. In October Night Owl MUSIC In l-€X‘ Honor System video prepared for the end of this but instead of having a professor turn in the of-
SWi”8- ” The albllm is being released 0“ W9-3VCT thought that 019 mgt0n- EVCU lhough he academic year. fender, Gorham said they wanted a student to turn
compact disc and cassette. Weaver Was 38- time was right for a C0mPi- W°"’l5eeaP°“")’ fromlhe The student body supports the idea of a new in the offenderbecause “the student realizesthat the
V sisted in his project by the Washington and lation of the best of James’ fl1bUni,W<’-3V€FhaSll1f’«S3l‘ honor system video. Sophomore Susie Prevost community of trust has been broken.”
Lee Alumni Association. collection. isfaction of p.reS€l'V1hg 3 feelsthat “the new video is a great idea because the In addition to this simulation, students and pro-
For W&L I Yell contains versions of the Given the go-ahead by bit of history- other one is so outdated.” fessors would discuss what the HonorSystem means
instantly recognizable tune done by such big professorof journalism Bob “Unlike 3 n€W5P3Pe|' Freshman Byron Burns commented “a new to them, as well as any positive experiences they
band era names asTex Beneke and the Miller de Maria and associate di- lh3l’5 thrown away after‘ video is needed because many students are con- have had.
0fCh°Si1’3aG€n€ K1'"Paa K3)’ KY5" and Rudy rector of alumni programs bﬁlngff-ad OT 3 TV Sh°W fused or do not know about the new Executive The aim of the video is to focus on the positive
4. Vallee and his C0nI1eCliCU1Y8hl<€€S« Wash‘ Rob Mish, he PF0C€€d€d l0 013‘ d153_PP°3f5 35 500" €15 Committee additions to the White Book.” aspects of the Honor System, rather than solely the
ington and L655 male V0931 group, 30Uih€l'h remaster the old vinyl " - " ' Y0“ _5¢° ‘la 0115 album Wlll Amy Gorham, the EC Secretary, said that the negative aspects of the EC process. Students who
C0mf0f1, Cul 3 5PeCi3l Version of ‘he Swing T930“-l5 0"“) DAT ii’-Ch“°l' we3VeT be llslened 10 for "lany EC “wants to focus more on the positive aspects of are interestedin acting in this new video, or want to
especially for the album There are alS0 VCP ogy Under lhe dif€Cli0T1 Of Years ‘O Come,” M 5‘“d- the Honor System.” The previous video featured a share what the Honor System means to them, please
sions of “College Friendships,” the Lenfest Center technical director Gary As for the follow-up album, Weaver says Student getting caught for an honor vioiationt and contact wmiatn 'r01es_
wr university’s alma mater, “VMI Spirit,” and Humiston. he’s already got a title.

two recordings ofthe old and new “Washing-

“I couldn’t have done it without them,”

“More Yelling,” he said.

U.S. News ranks W&L Law School#21

From STAFF Rraroms

The Washington and Lee
University School of Law has
been ranked 21st in the country

,, by U.S. News & World Report in

the magazine’s March 20 issue
listing “America’s Best Gradu-

ate Schools.’

Forthe sixth consecutive year,
Yale Law School earned the top
rating among the nation’s 177
accredited law schools. The top
five law schools, Yale, Harvard
University, Stanford University,
University of Chicago, and Co-

lumbia University, retained their
rankings from the last year.
Law schools were ranked us-
ing ﬁve criteria: student selectiv-
ity, placement success, faculty
resources, and two separate mea-
sures of institutional reputation.
Overall rank was determined by

converting into percentiles the
scores achieved in each category.

W&L was ranked tenth in the
category of faculty resources,
which was based on the school’s
total expenditures per student for

uvSee LAW, page 2

UVA prof. speaks about Israel

From STAFF REPORTS

David Novak, the Edgar M.
Bronfman Professor of Modern
Judaic Studies at the University
of Virginia, will deliver a talk
titled “The Concept of the Cho-
sen People” at Washington and

Lee University on Wednesday,
March 22, at 7:30 p.m. in the
Leyburn Library’s Northern
Auditorium.

The public is invited to
attend.

Novak is an internationally
recognized scholar in the fields
of Jewish Law, ethics, and
theology.

He has lectured widely in
North America, Europe, and
Israel.

He was a pulpit rabbi for over
20 years, and has taught at Old
Dominion University, the New
School for Social research, the
Jewish Theological Seminary,
and the City University of New
York.

 

  

PAGE 2

IFC Wants

faculty support
of Fall Rush

I->See RUSH, page 1

discipline and government of the students and all student
organizations. The faculty may adopt such rules and regulation
as may be necessary for the discharge of its obligation.”

Ray said given the bylaws, the faculty must address this
issue. This is not the ﬁrst time Winter Rush has been an issue.
A few years ago, the faculty and the fraternities agreed to keep
Fall Rush with some provisions. During Fraternity Renais-
sance, the steering committee not only spent money to renovate
the houses but also drew up a set of standards for student
behavior, he said. Ray, who was on the committee, said the
faculty thinks the fraternities have failed to live up to those
standards.

“The faculty would not be addressing this if the fraternities
were living up to the bylaws of the IFC, “ he said.

Phi Kappa Sigma junior Mason New said faculty will
probably not change their minds about Winter Rush. He said it
will get faculty talking to students and getting their opinions.

‘‘I don’t think many students understand the faculty’s rea-
sons for having Winter Rush,” he said. “They think the faculty
is not really listening to their position at all.”

Pi Kappa Phi senior Whitney Bludworth agreed. He said
most faculty members know that fraternities support Fall Rush,
but they may not know all the reasons.

Although the faculty won’t vote formally on Winter Rush
until May, IFC are preparing for the worst. Batteh said IFC will
begin to discuss a Winter Rush plan that would work for the
fraternities.

Survey ﬁnds 91%
of law school
grads employed
after six months

I->See HARVEST, page 2

instruction, library, and supporting services during the school
year beginning in fall 1993 (65 percent); financial aid, indirect
expenditures, and overhead per student (10 percent); total
number of volumes, microﬁlm rolls, microfiche, and titles in
the law library (5 percent), and the current student-to-teacher
ratio (20 percent), which at W&L is 12 to 1. W&L also scored
favorably in the employment category, with 91 percent of its
graduates employed six months after graduation.

“The real measures of a law school are the quality of its
faculty and students, the rigor of the learning that goes on, and
the professional competence and integrity of its graduates,”
said Barry Sullivan, dean of the W&L law school. “If you know
our faculty, students, and graduates, you know the kind of job
we are doing at W&L. lt’s reassuring when others recognize
that, too.”

Fifty join Phi Beta Kappa at annual convocation

I-> PBK, from page 1

others may ask, ‘What about children
with Down’s Syndrome, who still have =
some level of happiness and ability in
their lives?”

“Some claim this may lead to a
generation of Big Brother trying to
create a brave new world of perfect
people.”

If genetic engineering is to be em-
ployed, Tong said, it should be for the
sake of prevention of terminal diseases.
The thing to ponder, Tong said, is “who
we want us and our descendants to be.”

After urging the soon-to-be-mem-
bers to ponder those responsibilities,
the fifty initiated.

Senior initiates are Robert Temple
Cole Cone, Elizabeth Lee Daugherty,
Kerry Anne Egan, Allyson Lynn
Gardner, Matthew Bryant Gilman, _
Rebecca Walker Herring, Tamara __
Denise Hopkins, Lisa Marina Jackson, 5
Hollie Loren Kessler, Matthew Mark
Koerlin, Bradley John Meier,
Alexandra Catherine Miles, Sara

Melinda M°T83n, Stacy Lynn Nﬁwlini Phi Beta Kappa initiates stand for recognition in front of their peers during Wednesday's
annual Convocation in Lee Chapel.

Sarah Louise Lawrence Newport, Julia
Maria Rose Podlas, Beth Marie
Provanzana, Jane Axtell Shows, Sarah

The Ring-tum Phi, March 12, lﬂg

 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

 

Sunbathers, frisbee throwers, and volleyball players could not resist the lure of the sun as the spring weather imitated
summer. Students had class outside, slept in the sun for the first time since October, and got a little closer to that sought-

The Pub Board is W *
pleased to announce: ~ .

Emily Baker and »
llan lldenwald as the new
Executive editors of the Phi,
and Jessica Antonich and
Susie Stowell as the new ~

Calyx Editors .

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

English Tune, Duane Matthew
VanAsdale, Jonathon Jeremy Van
Dyke, Mariecken Avivou Verspoor,
Jessica Lonholm Willett, and Andrew
McCanse Wright.

Beam, Kelly Rae del Campo, Peter Wil-
liam Dishman, S.R. Evans Ill, Graig
Alan Fantuzzi, Megan Melhope
Femstrum, Kimberly Anne Freeman,
Christa Lynn Kirby, lstvan Ajtony

Majoros,Amy lsabel Mihal, Lisa Maria
Murphy, Joshua Franklin Nitsche,
David Dominick Olimpio, Hilary Jane
Rhodes, and Katherine Tucker Wood.

1994 graduates initiated are Timo-

thy Killen Adams, Stephanie Brown,
Elizabeth Anne Dettmar, Nicole
Suzanne Eden, LutherCameron Howell
IV, Jennifer Jo Peszka, Scott Thomas

Congratulations!

Junior initiates are Jennifer Leigh

Lip Synch buys 4.5
tons of food

From STAFF REPORTS

The $2600 the Lip Synch
raised this year bought 9125
pounds, 4.5 tons of food

The Lip Synch began as a
fund-raiser has been so success-
ful that students decided to use
the event to raise money for local
food pantries as well.

Jerry Darrell, director of din-
ing services at Washington and
Lee and founder and advisor for

the event, drove a truck to Verona,
Va., to purchase the food from
the Blue Ridge Area Food Bank,
a branch of Second Harvest. The
shipment included everything
from canned fruits and vegetables
to pasta and beans.

The food was distributed to
Community Share in Buena
Vista, TAP, the Natural Bridge/
Glasgow Community Pantry,
RARA Food Pantry, and Neriah
Baptist Church.

Sykes, and Henry Van Os.

_ V: 4; From SrAr~r_RnPoms

A i¥i'I'heiWashington and Lee

University~Rockbridge Sym-
phony Orchestra and Sonoklect
‘will present a concert featuring

pp ,_wprksby.tizree composers from
i Eastern Europe on March 25 at
» ’ 8 pm. in the Lenfest Center.

, The concert is open to the
pubiic free of charge.

There wiil also be a seminar
on Friday, March 24, at 1 pm.

in duPont Hall.

onoklect perform in Lenfest on 

The orchestra is conducted
by Barry Kolman and includes
students from W&L as we 11 as
area musicians.

The com posexs whose works
will be performed are Victor
Kopytsko, Arvo Part, and Henry
Gorecki.

Kopytsko is a Russian com-
poser who is rapidly becoming
a key figure in the musicai iife
of the republic of Belarus.

His music is known for its
stylistic boldness and unique
approaches to the production of
new sounds.

Hiscomposition“Adagiofor
Adolf’ wil! be performed.
Part, a composer residing in
Berlin studied with Estonian
composer Heine Eller and at
the Conservatory at Tallinn.
Mostof his compositions
since 1968 have been vocai
works heavily inﬂuenced by
chant and the music of the
Renaissance.
' Part’soomposition“Collage
Uber Bach” will be performed.
Goreclri was born in 1933
and studied with Boieslaw
Szadlsld at the Conservatory of

Katowice where, in 1968, he
was appointed to its faculty. ,

S His “Symphony No. 3,” sub-
titled, “Symphony of Sorrow-
ful Songs,” will be performed
by the orchestra.

Christine Schadeberg, so-
prano, will sing the texts of la-
ment under the direction of
Andrey Boreyko, guest
conductor.

In recent years, this com-
pelling oornposition has been
the most popular classical work
among audiences throughout
the world.

9 TV, to name a few

  
    
   
  
 
    
 
 
 

It is currentiy .
:heBi1§boardcharts
over two rmiiiio
woridwide. , .

Boreyko has been
guest conductor ” ‘
Eastern European) , V
inciudingthe   ,
phony Orchestras, are
burg Symphony»,-_1’ri 53'

He is now theres
ductor of.the_Po‘z
Philharmonic.  

 

ii

I

lies -paced
 ion eludes

  

 

 

l;  5

l
2
.

The liun ed

     
 

By KIRK SUSONG
Phi Movie Reviewer

  

The Hunted — 1/2
I Occasionally one comes upon a genuinely
bad ﬁlm. I have found one in The Hunted.

The story is standard. Paul Racine (Christo-

: pher Lambert), an American businessman, gets
caught in the centuries-old feuding of two Japa-

.nese warrior cults, the ninja Makato, led by
Kinjo (John bone), and the samurai, led by
Takeda (Yoshio Harada). Basically this in-
volves a lot of swordplay, bloodshed and an-
cient Japanese castles.

If you go see an action ﬁlm, you’d be willing
to forgo character development or exciting cin-
ematography in favor of pure action — exhila-
rating, forceful and heart-pounding. This ﬁlm
provides none of that.

The action scenes are poorly, quickly shot,

as if in ‘Confuso-Vision.’ This is probably for
the better, though, since the actor’s choreogra-
phy is also dreadful. Some of the swordplay
looks interesting, but it becomes so highly
ritualized, formalized and brushed-over it ends
up resembling a mating dance more than pulse-
quickening ﬁghting-to-the-death.
A The treatment of the ﬁghts is so standard I
{often found myself — quite literally — yawning
through the most important action scenes. In-
stead of focusing on the athletic grace and
strength necessary of the actors (as in a good
Van Damme ﬁlm), we get blurry shots of fast-
moving pant legs, a quick ﬂash of steel and long
close-ups on the actor’s face.

This might work if the acting were decent,
but it fails terribly. Christopher Lambert made
his ﬁrst big splash as Tarzan in Greystoke. He
seems to have used the same approach in this
film — as a strong, silent misunderstood man
given to sudden outbursts. Unfortunately, his
character in this ﬁlm is supposed to be a suc-
cessful, articulate, urbane New York business-
man.

Despite their credentials, the rest of the cast
fails similarly. Work must be getting scarce for
the high-brow John Lone (M. Butterﬂy, The
Last Emperor), but after this disappointing per-
formance he shouldn’t expect any more calls
soon. Joan Chen (the mill owner in ‘Twin
Peaks’) has a rather minor role, but even that is
flubbed. Yoko Shimada was Richard
Chamberlain’s love interest inShogun and here
plays the exact same character, only three-
hundred years later in modem Japan.

Despite the dismal acting, I wonder how
much we should blame the actors. Rather, let’s
blame the script, because it is as predictable,
empty and trite as any l’ve ever seen. The
screenwriter is J.F. Lawton, who also doubles
as director. Lawton is better known for his work
as writer on Pretty Woman and Under Siege.
Considering the (relative) quality of those ﬁlms,
one wonders what happened to make this one so
very bad. Maybe he’s got some sort of distract-
ing ‘personal problems.’

He wasn’t able to redeem his script through
his direction, either. Now and then, Lawton
tries to do something daring with the camera,
but it ends up looking only silly and preten-
tious. There are several dream sequences which
are incredibly absurd - mostly slow shots of
swirling colors and mystical, confused faces.

Overall, the ﬁlm’s tone is very reminiscent
of Highlander — full of swords, costumes, an-
cient feuds, and Christopher Lambert. But this

ﬁlm is not even close to the level of Highlander ’

(or even Highlander 2.‘ The Quickening). If
you’re looking for a good sword ﬁght, rent
C yranodeBergerac. Avoid this ﬁlm at all costs.

Rating Scale

ﬁﬁﬁﬁr - Go buy this as soon as it comes out on
video. It is an instant classic. “You’ll laugh; you’ll
cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something
about yourself.”

ﬂﬁﬁr -Go seethis ﬁlm now, while it’s still on the big
screen. It’s worth a few Oscar nominations and the
seven bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexing-
ton. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

ﬁt} - Okay, so there have been better films. Never-
theless, it is a good example of its genre, and you
should probably see it on videotape. Still, probably
“Better than Cats!”

it - It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off
tomorrow's reading. Although yourtime would prob-
ably be better served on your education, its free and
you’re bored, so go ahead and watch it.

Q} - Even if its free and your best friend said he
never laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks.
Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste it on
this. (There’s always MTV.)

'3», Dew C3al¢nwalJ.

Pm

FEATURES

Emron

Some of you may be already dreading those
horrible and obnoxious St. Patrick's Day par-

ties.

You know, the ones where you think you’ll
shoot yourself if one more person approaches

/A\an  Keyes

By MICHAEL
HEwLE'1'r
Phi Staff Writer

 

Alan L. Keyes is becoming a fa-
miliar face in politics today. The
former Reagan appointee to the State
Department has become renowned
for his powerful speeches.

I saw him at the law school a
couple of days before Lani Guinier
spoke. Although I disagreed with his
politics, I was impressed by his intel-
ligence and his ability to articulate
his ideas with clarity. That’s why I
decided to pick up his book, Masters
of the Dream.‘ The Strength and Be-
trayalofBlackAmerica. In this book,
Keyes attempts to posit a different
view of black American history that
can adapt to his political conserva-
tism.

He argues quite persuasively that
blacks survived slavery primarily
because of their conception of Chris-
tianity.

Christianity gave blacks a sense
of their humanity and self-worth.
Although they were oppressed, Chris-
tianity allowed blacks to have faith
and work hard. With Christian moral
values, African-Americans kept their
families together and resisted the de-
humanization inherent in institution
of slavery.

However, black Americans are
oftentimes ashamed of their enslaved
ancestors, ashamed of the fact that
they are descended from slaves.

“Somewhere, therefore, in the con-
sciousness of every African-Ameri-
can there is a subtle temptation to
disown our captive ancestors, and to
think that our past is not a triumph to
be celebrated, but a shame that we
must overcome...So we look to Af-
rica, glossin g over the fact that Africa
is not home to a single, united people
but a polyglot of diversity of tribes
and nations.”

Of course, some blacks are
ashamed of their enslaved ancestry
but not all. Certainly, there are blacks
who are either ignorant or choose to
forget the struggles of their slave
ancestors but again not all blacks.

He further argues that this system
of moral values sustained blacks
through Reconstruction to the early
20th century and provided the foun-

 

you and screams in your face, “Kiss me! I’m
Irish!"

Or worse yet, having some zealous party-
goer spew green puke on your shoes. We aren’t
even going to get in to the elfjokes.

So, you’ve had it, and you’re looking for an
alternative. Well, Student Activities Coordina-
tor Michelle Richardson has you in mind.

If you have seen those signs around
campus with the suggestive picture
of a man and a woman with the

tainment troupe rented from Roanoke, they
are actually a musical group scheduled
to play the GHQ Friday night.
This concert is the latest event
planned by Dean of Fun
Michelle in her attempt to pro-
vide alternative social options
for students.
The Nudes is a male-fe-
male duo from New York who
describes their music as having

   
  
   
 

ssnltsttuomottttltt

attending the University of Georgia.

He played music throughout his college
years.

Stephanie Winters is Park’s female coun-
terpart.

She is the group’s cellist and vocalist.

The two paired after Winters read an ad
placed in The Village Voice by Parks request-
ing a cellist.

Billboard magazine helped launch “The
Nudes” career after giving them a favorable

high.

dation of the Civil Rights Movement.
Black leaders such as Martin Luther
King were molded in the black church.
However, black people didn’t need to
be reminded of their human worth,
they already knew it. What King did
was simply to articulate something
that black people knew throughout
their history, he says.

Throughout the book, he criticizes
those historians and social scientists
who have misread or ignored the cen-
trality of Christianity or religious val-
ues in black-Ameri-
can history.

He takes Daniel
Patrick Moynihan to
particular task for his
notion that black cul-
ture itself was the
blame for rising lev-
els of illegitimacy in
the black community.
He also analyzes so-
cial-scientists such as
Nicholas Lemann, au-
thor of The Promised
Land, and Charles
Murray, author of
Losing Ground and
The Bell Curve.

In his view, the
problem with social
science lies in its in-
ﬂexible reliance on
facts. He contends that
social science fails to
seethe strengthsofthe
black community and
instead simply spews
out statistic after sta-
tistic.

In fact, Keyes lays
the problems of the
black community at
the feet of social sci-
entists and politicians
who have created a
“liberal welfare-state”
where blacks are essentially seen as
helpless victims, a view that is in
opposition to black history itself.

The black liberal establishment,
as he sees it, has distanced itself from
the black community and has assisted
in the destructive policies of the liber-
als.

Politicians such as Jesse Jackson
and Marion Barry have “sold out” the
black community and have replaced
black peoples’ interests with their
interests.

This has resulted in the sheer de-
struction of those values that have

banner headline that reads “The
Nudes,” don’t get your hopes up too I

While it may sound like “The ’
Nudes” is the name of an adult enter-

 

sustained the black community dur-
ing slavery and Jim Crow segrega-
tion, he says, Strangely enough, he
also criticizes the Brown v. Board of
Education decision.

“However, the opinion incorpo-
rated the argument that without inte-
gration, there could be no equality.

It seemed unthinkable that an edu-
cational institution that had little or
no white participation was not inher-
ently inferior.

Pity the poor African countries,

Photo from Time

Robert Dole, Alan Keyes and Richard Lugar
(from left to right) roll with force into the
contest for the ’96 Republican Presidential
nomination.

where there aren’t enough whites to
go around.

The outcome of the Brown case
was the right outcome, but the ratio-
nale for the decision unintentionally
bespoke the very prejudice whose
effects it sought to overturn.”

I think Keyes misses the whole
point ofthe Brown decision. The de-
cision overturned Plessy v. Ferguson,
which said separate but equal was
equal. Thurgood Marshall proved that
contention wrong, and the Supreme
Court agreed with him.

As I read the book. I became in-

“infectious grooves, engaging
melodies, and compelling lyrics.”
Walter Parks is the group’s
vocalist, guitarist, and songwriter.
Parks was a business major while

creasingly perturbed that he sees any
positive good in racial segregation.
Although Keyes admits that segrega-
tion was wrong, he nonetheless ar-
gues that segregation strengthened
black cultural and moral institutions.
Keyes forgets that segregation also
excluded blacks from participating
in mainstream America. He does cor-
rectly note the sacriﬁces.that work-
ing-class blacks made in order to
provide opportunities, however lim-
ited, to their children. Black women
scrubbed and cleaned
white peoples’ houses
while keeping their
families together.
Yet, Keyes sug-
gests blacks were sat-
isﬁed with their posi-
tion in society. The
black elites, not the
black working class,
faced the most viru-
lent racism because
they sought accep-
tance into the white
mainstream.

“Working—class
blacks could be both
economically and psy-
chologically self-suf-
ficient.

They could grow
their own crops, ply
their trade, or offer
their services to white
businesses and house-
holds without appear-
ingtoassimilatewhite
cultural values, or as-
piring to more exten-
sive integration with
theirwhiteclients and
employers.”

He further argues
that although work-
ing—class blacks
seemed submissiveto
racism, they actually resisted the de-
humanizationinherentin segregation.
Black elites by seeking greater eco-
nomic advancement had assimilated
white values and denied their black
heritage. ' V

Hr, dismisses blacks such as Paul
Rol'eson who pursued a career on the
stage while protesting American rac-
ism.

Instead, he compares Robeson to
Thurgood Marshall, who became a
lawyer, saying that “Marshall saw
achievement in terms of his obliga-
tion to himselfand the black commu-

review of their self-released debut album.
“The Nudes” will begin playing at 9:00
p.m. inn the GHQ.
For a refreshing alternative to the typical St.
Patty Day’s concert, be sure to be there.

writes with inte igence hut eaves readers rustrateci

nity.” Fine. Robeson, on the other
hand, decided that law was not his
road to achievement; he sought
achievement in the arts. Yet, Keyes
criticizes him, accusing him ofbeing
more concerned with white opinion
than with black needs.

In my view, Robeson never forgot
where he came from and attempted to
bring dignity to the black culture by
achieving in the arts. Keyes is wrong:
Robeson never forgot his obligation
to the black community.

More importantly, blacks want-
ing to break barriers in the arts, law,
journalism and medicine had little to
do with trying to appease white
people. These blacks simply wanted
to participate in the American Dream:
the idea that if you work hard, you
will succeed. Keyes is right in point-
ing out that the American Dream was
about more than making money, but
succeeding and participating in the
mainstream is the ideal on which this
country was built.

After World War II, black so]-
diers became more militant because
they saw the irony of ﬁghting fas-
cism in Germany and beingtreated as
second—class citizens in America.

They were angry because they
wanted something better in life, and
Jim Crow kept them from getting" it.
But Keyes thinks black people were
better off in racially segregated ar-
eas, cut off from opportunities avail-
able to other American citizens.

Throughout the book, Keyes ex-
presses his longing for a simplertime
when blacks had nice little institu-
tions that sustained them through sla-
very and segregation. While he criti-
cizes the welfare system and bureau-
cracy, he thinks blacks were and are
better off if they are sectioned away
from the American mainstream.

Although he talks about neigh-
borhood councils and more power to
the people, his ideas leave blacks
virtually cut off from the opportuni-
ties enjoyed by other Americans.

He stretches his conception of
the black Christian tradition to ri-
diculous proportions, and he eventu-
ally loses steam when he champions
Clarence Thomas and lambastes Jesse
Jackson. Keyes contradicts himself
too often in this book, even when he
occasionally makes some valid
points.

In the end, Keyes writes grandi-
ose rhetoric, and he leaves the reader
unsatisfied and frustrated.

 

  

W The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1995
I

   

   
    

      

 

   
 
    
 

 

Ma 5
‘[3 9 Iﬂ 6) I09 5' ©
LH ELL :5; mnm- L F5 W 8% MM!‘
5 oSN|>J(‘> ELP etzoeuwé
STREET SMARTS FOR REPUBLICANS    
 ..%.2.*:..‘;’;‘.‘::..,o.. (I Low-sowem Evwsetxuovwovseg
__ 3 Q HATE M , :-
BE CAREFUL our maze. IT MA3 seem me A Repoeuccw AVOID AREAS OE-‘Touln wueee 3 ° _ , i
agztoégvg TI-‘BEBE 013422 STILL THE. aueoew OF WELFARE ,-, 1 §
0 be “0 , W‘ HAS seem LlFT€O.Tl-(E Locus i ;
QEAUZETK-{E9 AQEIQ T NORMAL . JUST AQE“)-1- egg-rgp UL 55511 g + E
“II  A A 
‘E ‘G 2 rs.»
c—@’> ——o© ——@@  2;.
5’ 3
~ V  1 Hate ‘$00 new I Love: mu 1 uneaou uer: /e *.6ou\oeT I HATE you: '1 Love Boo bar I HA11?
at
W " V1‘ % V V V 
5
Dosh Bcm-Ie2ExPLAMuoe Hovo Do NOT SA9 THIS: BEKIOAQE OF Ho~\oSekuALs MD 3 g‘ .4
C?EK|'lv~\C1 mo o\= Ai=r=IeMA1-we Ti-\E1QQAO\CAL6A9 AGENOA, DA£t- ,3, 9
ACTION u)\bLENV RAcISM AND smneo |LLE6A\.IMM|6R1WT$‘ wuo 4 T . .
DlScI?.lMlvJA'\"\oI0 IN AMEQKA Dom mute DOv~3'T eve” SPENI ENGUSH. ‘NV 32
E
G

  

ta

0 gigs pggggv Cou:JTeIlLU\;\'U2E M GOVEI2n\\:9 ,3
“CE AND F02 am" “A pmg gqqgg HA\InJC'> sex ANOA8:)IZTloMS‘J\)s"(' ~
i Foeouceh FOQTHE FUN OF IT. ; Y
O .
___@,© F goo ggr 1 LOVESOUYIE HATE ‘goo ‘SET 1 Love‘ wet I ucxre you new’ I we E900 SET I HATE sou .-
& . THE‘: JUST \a)0L)‘T

\ 0 T1

     
      
   

 

UNOERSTAIJO. V9 I II
\F 300 see Ana SMALL STEEET AND PILU)R‘5S REMEM3€lL To STEP OVERTHE HOMELESS,
URCHMS an-Io Loo: L\KE ‘may 88 A CA2wc5 2eI>uecicAi\\. NOT mart-IEM.
,, DON‘T HAVE uIeAPon<:, $00 MKGHT ,
con sivea C«\-\EEEmIGTH€N\ up

u) mi-me eooo news 0&7
REI>uBucAIo I2r—.\=oe~\s.

H29, Pooaiuos!

‘\'HE.QE'l»L as. No "‘@ )

MORE FREE SCHOOL

cuuu-IE5, em seen

300'“. BE ABLETO

OQN1 IN §CHO0L FOQ ~

AN*1‘\’um(-, you g.xwI'-- ~ ’
Ever») Foo 17!.’

    
 
 
   
 

 
  

ma sou 

@

  
 
 
 

wA\‘\’,I‘M NOT 1 ‘'
Fmisuev ‘JET. .

   
  
   
     
      
 
 
  

          

Til‘; BLUEQ CLUB l‘ '
RMINL Q(éTEN\ I
V‘
\\/ll§‘l/0:444 WA-.yuNL~l'aN 7o‘si‘la'"'«... «Rn-_._;R5 620,3? 4.17, ‘ V )1
E 7/»427zs2&7>a4s E skvbws vaksm am ,,
E 3ﬁ“‘“1‘?I""‘9 5" 7t“0/"“"4“‘  Train and make your first parachute Valley maze 5%
E 7“‘”‘“"”“ ‘W4 5444“  jump in one day. Skydive Virginias
E 5  staff has 30+ years instructional expe- Hardware; Paint; and Related Items ’”
E ,9  ‘st. 5 rienca For brochure can 1-800-414- 1 V  V-1  $~:30.a.rn.l~- 6 p.m. 1 Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. V
:0.....0CO...C.......C...............:    

  
  
 

     
   

Students Needed!
Earn up to $2,000+/month working for Cruise
Ships or Land-Tour Companies. World Travel.
Seasonal and Full-Time employment available.
No experience necessary. For more information
call: Cruise Employment Services

   
 
        
   
      

I Letus

a  ' 1.
{me an   3 1 combine all

I
O 1 a/vs

  

  .' -: ’

  

      
    
  

    
 
    

     
     

  

  

 
 

(206)634-0468 ext. cs3421    
LLVAETE _ ¢a3y.to.mgngg¢ pa mt,
Men/Women earn up to $480 . 6 .  based ab [0 )
weekly assembling circuit Bad  no   39“? on — ° '
[' """"""""""""""""""""" "1' boards/electronic components F‘gf "IL, 13 Mt ‘ ml CALI. M"
I I th me. Ex erience unnec- _ _ _ Rﬁcolmlm-3)
l MACAEOTI AU FROMAGE i elssa(r)y, will train. Immediate can day or  1    (21. “R _ v
: (EAT WITH GU TO OR ABOUT 5|¢ PER SERVING.) : openings in your local area.     
I 2 cups macaroni (pinwheels are fun) 1 cup milk I Ca111_602_680_7444 Box 645’ H0u_Yy00]), FL 33022
: 1 cup sharp cheddar (grated) 3 tbs flour : E 102C A - ' .
I 1/2 stick butter ' 1 tsp pepper I Xt' ' '
: 1 tsp Worcestershire (if you like) 1 tsp salt : r "‘ "" '*  ‘
: I F Europe bound this summer?
l 3:01;.-§::::°::1:31:lp:;i:ledD;a?§lll§gaw:::;:f: l A 1 Call us for air & rail
I , l butt r and ' in flour over 1 hea . I
: $:n,m:tti:r in :lilk  smooth. Add cheeosﬁe, Satlt, i F rates for Students’ I‘
l pepper and Worcestershire. Stir well. Smother I $5
: macaroni. Serves 4. :
I I
E  M ‘ii’? 1...‘ .i°’cl§s”;Z‘”ZZ§.§:°’3.ii ZZZZZ‘?§‘°.i’ E ’
|  over 12 million locations, including |
: ‘l’ grocery stores. :
I I
I I re
I I — :
I I 6
I were: LOOKING our FOR YOU I
E To.1pply,cn|| |—800-CITIBANK E  is
21 W. Washington St.
Int 1911’ (am is. 463-7174
in IN” 11 l
E X " “X i   _ 0 You waymp v|sA~o&:.Mas‘ercard credit Cards? ': CAI-Ipus cm. Box 22o6u5. HoLLYwoon. FL 33022 E
* lﬂ—————“a*‘"'°““°”R°“ 2    YES! »mms»-/mmm.
2 3 West Preston 9194‘ “C3357? g°r:i':.9i.ldyi»l3‘:l;°mv:F Evan n- vouanr-: mzwm I cmdaappmved Immcdlalcly. sow. ounnamzsm I "
91%’ Downstairs S CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'n.IRNI-:D DOWN BEFORE! | I
. ' rcm, I I
3 Apartment descny;-Isrgenmmlill i3?:“:o—a5oii'°s—°'5§i3§§r”I3€?}i I NAME I
- 3 ‘=~ws—1v"=°~-*=~T.:::;"..~.:~.E;.";: - mass - .
. . . t . _ ’ mS__
Wlthm Walking erg E**E*:5.°::.°23z.;:.:aa.aa....1.;,& ; Cm SmE_z,,, ;
3 Distacrice Of W&L Q REZPMR$—AND T0 emu) voun canon RA I PHONE SS’ —--——— .
In US 0‘ ’ ' I
E a 1” Q «.~»--"‘‘‘‘ .. ::::::.:°'.".'.::... Ismm - ,
Call  After 934° . . s5“;l‘?-=9‘ No security deposit! ' norm Maslacud nu mama u-dean-I-dMasm<>-rd Imzm-not-1 Inc. '
g gg-\~'.~..%“'“,.1¢¢.'“ me” ‘ I Vlsa Is a mglsleld naamm :1! VISA l1S.A.lrI:.und VISA Imm-mom: I
'   “.’E-_::;..  SEND THE COUPON TODAY | I

 

  
 

PAGE 5

@112 'i'Kittg-tum lﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee

The Ring-gum Phi, March 17, 1995

OPINION

  

innocence aside, no one can say he was not torn apart to witness
this tragedy.
The Honor System is so deeply imbedded in all of us. It is the

‘V law that governs us and the motivation which guarantees that we

live honorably. To see a fellow student fall from grace disturbs
us because we realize that our system is not perfect. To see a

,3 proceeding conducted in the name of justice and then turned into

a public spectacle disturbs us even more.

Let’s put this behind us. But let us never forget. Always
remember the coldness and emptiness you felt in your stomach
when the verdict was rendered. Please let this serve as a lesson
to all of us. A

The convergence theory says bad always accompanies good.

“l When we are most happy, we are most upset. We do not pretend

to understand this. In fact, it confuses the hell out of us. But
maybe when we accept that fact, things get a little easier.

~<.' Founded September 18, 1897
AConvergenceTheory Full report on student body
A convergence theory exists that can be beautifully applied . 1 . h .
to the recent events on campus. The theory says truly splendid I    e  g
“ events are always accompanied with truly horrible events. The
convergence theory perfectly illustrates the irony in life. By NELSON M. QUIRKE  
Old Man Winter finally packed his bags and left Lexington PM Staff Wm" Wv°iC°'ma"' — oneﬁ
., early this week leaving Washington and Lee basking in glorious ﬂ
sunlight. Students simply “felt” better. Moods were uplifted ?v“f‘°"_'T ﬁg -
and smiles abounded on the Hill. Almost everyone was able to   _ of - a fmme,
* take advantage of the warm weather. Whether it was enjoyed by gt:  0" the ' _  
‘ quietly reading a book in the Dell or playing frisbee in the BDG   in me 
Quad -- the early brush with spring was heavenly. * , 
Waking up, pulling the shade, and having the warm sunlight Télij  
ll bathe your face gives you that little pick-me-up that is rare   
during the dogged, final days of Winter Term. Students were ﬁlm ' C ‘h‘“—
V finally able to wear those favorite pair of shorts tucked snuggly ‘ lhvﬂ  
~t in the bottom drawer of the dresser since October, With Mother  . » ‘, he said“
Nature on your side, all things are possible, Send the blue and   id“ “°‘ 
dreary days of winter on her way, spring is here! lm=  em -  
X. But a cloud remained. While this cloud was not a physical W _   : of the-
G one in the sky, it penetrated deep into the hearts of every W&L b about U T f°' —
student. We sadly watched one among us be stripped of his         V—*"% "9?
)« privilege to attend this University. With questions of guilt or

Sexist traditions must be re-thought

 

I have decided to shed my
Democratic tag for a while and write
about women; not Democratic women"
but women in general. After all, it is
Women’s History Month. l’ve heard a

personality but, she doesn’t get the
same praise Tipper Gore does. That
might be because Tipper’s plan was
something family oriented: censorship,
which all the conservatives can go along
with. Hillary is far more controversial.
One thing this whole discussion has
shown is that America is deﬁnitely not
ready for a woman President and a
First Husband.

* Women in‘C‘ongress alsovhave a
slightly different focus than the men.
For example, the Women in the House

coalition hasn’t slammed her for
working while pregnant.

On to W&L. l’ve heard from people
that W&L is still a male dominated
school. I am glad that Amy and
Madeline got elected, proving that
theory at least partially wrong; how-
everthere are still some conditions that
seem very old-fashioned and sexist.
One of these wouldbe that the female

deans cannot vote or ask questions-at -

faculty meetings. The ofﬁcial reason
for that is they are not teaching any

Faculty Hearing Board found the
accused guilty of sexual misconduct.
We don’t know what exactly happened
(perhaps the rumors were very
exaggerated), but our policy in regard
to incidents of sexual misconduct needs
to be reconsidered. First of all, sexual
misconduct covers everything from
rape to calling someone a sexist name.
This seems to be almost a PC policy,
we won’t- offendanyone by saying

what really occurred. Obviously the

ﬁrst crime isa million times worse than

‘V lot about women feeling discriminated got together to back a law requiring classes. Regardless of whether they the second but for all we know, either
_])an Odenwald against and being called feme-nazis more stringent enforcementof alimony teach or not, they are still part of the one could have occurred. Women at
but, I never personally experienced orders and forcing men to pay child faculty and deserve a vote. I don’t W&L have a right to know what is
anything like that until recently -- but support. This crossed party lines and really know if this is justaconvention occurring on campus for our own

that’s a whole other column. shows that women orwhetheritis protection.
g‘ In high school it was always an can show solidarity actually writ- ldon’t think l’ll ever make a very
open competition and it didn’t matter on issues such as ten into by- good feminist, or at least not what
whatsex,youwereitjustmatteredthat these. However, laws some- people perceive feminists to be. I
you could compete. In fact, here at women are not all I I’ll ever where, but, it believe in equal treatment, but I still
W&L l’ve more often been slammed emotional bleeding needs to be like to have doors opened forme. Most
. formy political views than for my sex. hearts. They have make, a very good changed. people seem to equate that with a
 O t e  l’ve been called a raving liberal but taken positions on feminist, 07‘ at least The other feministissue,whenitisreallyamatter
_ neveraemotional female (at least that issues that oppose no h t eo le example I ofcouitesy;Iholddoorsopenforpeople
“Does anyone have a G-str1ng?” Ican remember). the traditional t .1” a .p .  have heard a and I expect other people to act the
Nationally, there has been a lot of philosophy of percelve femlnls S to lotaboutlately same way. The other thing is, l’ve

-- The conductor at the Sonoklect talk about women being incompetent women wanting to is our sexual never really been good at feeling like

be. I believe in equal

will be ready to perform in a minute.”
-- The same, explaining the delay in
the performance

The main focuson women in politics

' has, of course, been Hillary Clinton, or

‘Biliary’ as some people call the
Clintons. I don’t know whether it is the
threat of a woman who appears almost
to be in ‘the job of president or her

pregnant and will become only the
second sitting house member to give
birth. Why don’t they make such a big
splash when a sitting representative
becomes a father? Actually, I’m
surprised that the family-values

and the penalty was merely social pro-
bation. That obviously made many of
us very angry. I had a friend who was
ready to transfer because she could not
deal with a school she saw as condon-
ing rape. It turns out that the Student

V ‘ ' J or having special problems in regard to help everyone - m i sco n d uct l’ve ever been oppressed. I have never
c0nc_ert’ trylng to resolve a vlola player 8 politics. There istheZoeBaird problem else out. treatment’ but I stlll policy. There been taught or informed that a woman
techlncal dzfﬁculty that has entered the languageof politics. One of the things l lk e t0 have doors were rumors should sit quietly and hold her tongue.

Of course men have withdrawn their I ﬁnd ironic is the opened for me ﬂying around Ibasicallytreateveryonethesameway

name from nominations for the same recent excitement in ' forawhilethat and I would hope the women at W&L

“ ’ ' _ ' reason but the incident that is ﬁnding out that a   someone had would feel the same. We are as much

He S backstage puttlng on the G Strlng’ and remembered is Zoe Baird. representative is been raped a part of the institution now as any of

the males here. Also remember, many
of the buildings on campus were
ﬁnanced by women after their husbands
died, so women more or less have
physicallybuiltW&Landwillcontinue
tobuilditbybeingpaitoftheinstitution.

dire ﬁling-mm iﬂlii U.S. soldiers are not social Workers

 

tr
Exeeuﬁve Editor _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ' _ _ _ _ _ _ . ‘ _ _ _ _ _ Hsmh Gnbm their primary mission as soldiers. is to seek out other the '21st-century will slowly evolve into a gigantic

News gdi,°,s _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ _ , , _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ . , _ . . _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _ ‘ Emily Bake,’ Ethan Krupp soldiers (those'whom we do not like) and to kill them. social welfare agency. CNN s picture of _the 21st-

Ermmial page Edna, _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ , _ , _ _ _ , , , _ _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ , , _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ . _ _ _ Anne Alvmd When our soldiers are not actively killing anyone, their century soldier is now being painted with frightening

Sports Editor . . . _ . _ , , _ . . , _ . , , , . _ . _ , . . . _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ _ , , , _ , , , _ , _ _ _s,¢phen wimmi NICHOLAS Lo purpose is to serve as a deterrent. In layman’s terms, the clarity — he holds a yelping Cuban bambino on one

K * Assistant Spfms Edi,“ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ ' _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ , , _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ 300,, Bookwane, W ADDY 996 peacetime role of the American military is to hop around knee, andsupports an M-16 on the other (loaded, of

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dan Odenwald, Bunny Wong ’ the globe looking scary so no one is tempted to mess with course, with rubber bullets; we wouldn’t want anyone

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green the United States. to get hurt, after all...) Such pacifist expectations, of

Edl‘°Yf3l C°"°°mS_'S - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --Alex Christensen, Phil Fllckengef Sadly, a new image of the American soldier is now course, have little to do with how the future will

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett Recently CNN has been running a Series of emergingnheserviceman actually Play itself

)' Business Mam er R J reports on the changing role of the United States as _S0Clal W0_fl<f‘-f- The 0Ul- BUL lflflle Sl10Yl
Assistant r;.....‘...‘t'r'.;.;.g;; I I I I .' I I f . ffffffffffffffffff I f I I f I I fulﬁll; $.33: '“l".“"Y’ “’“" sP°°““ ““°““°“ ‘° ‘l‘°S° C"“‘°" "‘l"““'S‘”“'°“’ "”" .P“‘°”‘g. ”!“*
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush Sen/lcemerl who were unfortunate enough to unable to accept th(;u- /tmerﬁca? bsogdle-r m
Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson draw an assignment at the U,S base at Guantanamo’ Sand? of new Clilban re U- o  e r0 e 0 . ll ‘Smel-
Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias Cuba‘ Guantanamo! acqulred by the Us dunng Eeeslmothiunléed State: S! a new 1"" age of e ‘S grelatly gljturlﬁus to
Advertising Staff ................................. . . Melissa Byrd, Jenni Grant the Spanish-American War, until recently was a 6CaU§<§ 0 W1. eSP_rea Americ n ld ‘er is ow m r . m°’a 5 “,“ ° ° re‘

1 Circulation Manager ...................................... ..Stephen Williard key American asset in the Cold War balance of QPPOSIUOH l0 1_m{mgT3- . _ ha S0 .l n e e ,g spectwhich ourarined

power. Now, however, with the threat of tion, and unwilling to ing. t e serviceman (IS SOClal forces enjoy abroad.
The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at Commlllllsm reduced lfllol ellmlllatedt Amellcall Send the refugees back to u}Ork er, The C I i n t0 )1, ad- Llberal Schemes to

Cuba because of the in-
evitable protests in the
Cuban-American com-
munity in South Florida,
has decided to pursue an
ingenious middle course:
procrastination. While
the politicians in Wash-

socially engineer a
Great Society in the
United States using
taxpayer dollars are
bad enough,butplans
to enforce social jus-
tice on a global scale
using American ser-

officials have elected to use the base at
Guantanamo in an entirely new way: as a holding
pen for Cuban and Haitian economic refugees.
To make a long story short, these CNN reports
have presented a very troubling perspective. The
reporter, whose name escapes me, positively
bubbles overwith enthusiasm for the bravery and
ingenuity displayed by our boys (and, one must

Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily front advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
4 Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does

ministration,...has decided to
pursue an ingenious middle
course: procrastination.

 

V . . . . . . not for et, our oun women in facin the dail in (On mUll0V€rthC ﬁner Vlcemell 35 3WllS are
noueﬂect  °P'm°_n of The Rmgtflm Phwms mff'Th's newspaper Observes cumm challenggesofpgbvidﬁigfood,3lothing,§nd shelte)l’ pogints of the refugee dilemma, moreover, it is the US positively reprehensible. Just remember trhat every
°°“" d°ﬁ'“"°“5 °“'b°1 3"” °b5°°""l" to thousands of unfortunate people, US soldiers military that is being called upon to pick up the slack. soldier that busies himself providing warm blankets

must, in addition to taking care of basic needs, One feels great sympathy for the Marine commander at to the Cuban unemployed is one less soldier protect-
TheRi'ng-tum Phi keep order in the camp. Guantanamo whose job now seems to consist, in the ing YOU from the hostile intentions of the Qaddaﬁs,
V Post Office Box 899 My primary concern about the military’s new main, of assuring reporters that refugees are receiving a Husseins, and (ironically)the Castros of this world. If
Rxingmyvirginia mission, arbour their being called onto baby-sit well-balanced diet and that construction of temporary missile silos ‘could be turned into preschools, and
24450 refugees, rs that such orders ﬂy m the face of the outhouses is proceeding smoothly.‘ This was not, one naval bases into free clinics, no doubt the world
very purpose of any military organization. Our suspects, in the Colonel’s job description. would be a better place; until that time comes, how-
Telephone (703) 462-4059 armed forces share a very speciﬁc and necessary The CNN reports reston an insidious assumption: that ever, the unique mission of our military should be
W Fax (703)462-4060 task, much as we might like to sidestep the fact: war is passé, which it is not, and that the US military in respected and upheld.
H

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 17,1995

PAGE 6

Coffee: The possibilities are endless

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

This column was inevitable.

Take a deep breath. It’s time for
another column in the series I like to
call“StufflThinkIsCool.”Thisweek’s
topic: Coffee.

I love coffee. I don’t just mean that
in the sense people mean when they
say they love their country or their
parents. I mean, I really love coffee. I
have an ever-growing collection of
coffee cups and a really cool penguin-
shaped carafe. I have two coffee makers,
my own bean grinder, and a cappucino/
espresso maker. I am deeply serious
about coffee.

My obsession with coffee has been
rapidly fed by the Gevalia Coffee
Company. They sent me mail (which
won them points with me right away)
offering to give me a four cup coffee
maker (with the cone-shaped ﬁlters
recommended by my friends on
rec.food.drink.coffee) and a pound of
beans for a mere five dollars. I sent
them a check right away. lt’s excellent
coffee. Unlike fellow Gevalia member
Richard Weaver, I bothered to read the
whole thing and learned that they would
periodically be sending me coffee. Also
unlike Richard Weaver, I considered
this a good thing. The only problem is
that the amount of coffee I now have is
slightly overwhelming, even for me. In
my room right now, I have about five
pounds of unground beans. The time
has come for some experimentation.

The first thing I wanted to try with
my coffee was to see what would
happen if instead of giving my plants
water, I gave them coffee. The results
have been inconclusive so far, but I
have two theories as to how
Experimental Plant Raul will react.
Theory One is that Raul will respond to
the caffeine in his new diet by growing
really huge and eventually overtaking

especially if he decides to sing to me.
Theory Two is that coffee will have a
Magic Beans effect on Raul. He will
grow into a huge beanstalk, similar to
the one in the fairy tale with which we
are all familiar. The difference, though,
is that having a beanstalk. giant, and so
forth, will probably prove a lot less
useful to me than it did to Jack. I can’t
steal golden eggs
from the giant; it’s
an Honor
Violation. Instead,
I will occasionally
have dinner with
the giant and take

__ ‘C________

Mention Here vs. 36 Ounces of
Espresso.The professorwon everytime
and I’d fall asleep. Only one time in my
recent life has any form of coffee been
able to keep me awake. Picture it:
Cordova, Spain, 1992. My brother (The
Boy) and I have just spent a sleepless
night on a train. At breakfast, we are
offered the delectable beverage that is
known as cafe
con leche (that
means coffee
with milk, kids).
Cafe con leche
is made with
really strong

his wife shopping
at Tal Gal.
Regardless, I’m
sure the Journal of
Science will be
anxious to publish

I love coffee. I don’t
just mean that in the
sense people mean
when they say they
love their country or

coffee and a lot
of steamed
milk. It's
amazing, but it
was not right for
a morning like

my ﬁndings. .- that. The Boy
1 love the smell th9"'Pa"ent3- Im9a“n» and I . boldly
of coffee. I love it I reallylove coﬁee. asked for cafe

so much that the
fact that every
thermal mug I own
smells like coffee
and taints the ﬂavor of any non-coffee
beverage I put in them doesn’t bother
me in the least. In fact, I kind of like it.
If you feel the same way I do, try this
craft tip that is probably worthy of
mention onLive With Regis and Kathy
Lee. Grind some coffee beans and put
them in the foot of a pair of knee-high
pantyhose to make a lovely sachet. It
works much better at making my clothes
smell like coffee than my previous
methodofaccidentally spillingfullcups
on myself.

We all know that drinking a lot of
alcohol will build your tolerance——it
will eventually take a lot more to have
an effect on you. The same has been
true for me with coffee.

I once filled my 36 ounce coffee
cup/silo with espresso and took it to the
class of a certain professorwhose name
I will wisely not mention here. I then
had contests called Certain Professor

con leche sin
leche (handy
translation:
coffee with
milk without milk).

Damn, it was good. It was an
experience that I have heretofore been
unable to duplicate. That coffee was so
strong that it was actually thick. This is
a coffee so powerful that you don’t
even need a cup to hold it, so mighty
that it allowed me to see the very face
of God, so tough that it might keep you
from snoring in Professor Whose Name
I Will Wisely Not Mention Here’sclass.
The Boy and I saw marketing poten-
tial. We shall call it Coffee-On-A-Stick
and sell it as such. Our slogan will be,
“Coffee-On-A-Stick: Quit messing
around and eat your coffee.” I know it
will make us rich. How could consum-
ers reject a product with the words
“On-A-Stick” in its name?

Coffee-On-A-Stick inspired me to
try another experiment. Think of those
Spring and Summer days when you
really want a cup of coffee but don’t

Goshen. What should you do? The
answer to this dilemma came to me
almost as in a dream and I tried it right
away. I took a plastic Solo cup, filled it
with coffee, and stuck a butter knife in
it. I then opened the freezer, ducked the
avalanche of boxes of frozen spinach,
and placed the cup inside. Twelve hours
later, my creation was complete:
Coffeesicle. I cut away the plastic cup
and had a huge Solo cup-shaped frozen
chunk of coffee. Mmmm! It‘
was exquisite.

The next time I go to Wal-Mart, I’m
going to buy some popsicle molds like
I had when I was little so the coffee
hunks will be more manageable. I can’t
wait to go to class Spring Term gnaw-
ing on a big chunk of coffeesicle. Re-
member how popsicles used to turn
your tongue purple or whatever? The
coffeesicle turned my tongue brown,
which was not an altogether
unpleasant experiment.

Ah, coffee. The possibilities are
endless. I’ve been thinking I should try
to incorporate it into cooking, using
coffee where the recipe calls for water,
such as in cake mixes and Kraft
Macaroni and Cheese. I’m sure my
cookbook Stuff You Can Do With
Coffee will be stiff competition for
Sarah Gilbert’s Cooking WithA lcohol.
Sarah’s book doesn’t have a prayer if I
include some of my coffee/alcohol
ideas. Irish coffee is great and
everything, but why not try something
stronger? I’ve been wondering what
would happen if instead of putting water
in my espresso maker, I used rum. I
have always thought drinking espresso
should be like doing shots anyway, so
why not? An even better idea: what
wouldhappenifinsteadofputtingwater
in my coffee maker I used gin?
Unfortunately, I’m fresh out of gin,
having had polished off the last of it
when I put it in my cereal this morning.

Still, I know it’s worth trying,
especially since I have five pounds of
beans to use up while they’re still at
their peak.

 

March 8
On February 27, 1995, the Stu-
dent-Faculty Hearing Board heard
and deliberated a case of sexual mis-
conduct . The committee found a
Washington and Lee student guilty
of sexual misconduct. The verdict
reads as follows: “Guilty of
misconduct by sexual exploitation,
through manipulative and
predatory behavior.”

The following sanction was im-
posed: “Social probation for the rest
of the 1994-95 academic year, pro-
bation from presence in the fresh-
man dorms for the rest of the aca-
demic year, mandatory counseling
for a period to be determined by
the therapist.”

The accused appealed the deci-
sion of the SFHB to the University
Board of Appeals reviewed the ap-
peal and voted to deny the appeal.

March 10
The Student Conduct Commit-
tee has found a member ofthe stu-
dent body guilty of ungentlemanly
conduct concerning an incident in
the dormitories. The student will
serve twelve hours of community
service, pay a $50 ﬁne, and attend
one personal assessment with Uni-
versity counselor Dr. James Worth.
The committee has placedthe stu-
dent on social probation for the re-
mainder of the academic term and
conduct probation for one
calender year.

March 10

A member of the student body
has been found guilty of a violation
of the Honor System in that the
student lied to a Law Professor re-
garding his failure to attend a graded
class activity. The student

Student Body Notices

has chosen to withdraw from
the University.

March 14

A member of the student body

has been found guilty of a violation

of the Honor System in that the

student cheated on a Theater exam.

The student has chosen to with-
draw from the University.

March 14
A member of the student body
has been found guilty of a violation
of Section 0 of the White Book in
that the student disclosed informa-
tion regarding an honor proceed-
ing in which he participated. That
student has been placed on conduct
probation for the remainder of the
Winter Term.

March 14
A member of the student body
has been found guilty of Sections
0 and P of the White Book in that
the student disclosed information
regarding an honor proceeding in
which he participated and harassed
persons who participated in that
honor proceeding. That student has
been placed on Conduct Probation
for the remainder of the 1995-1995
academic year and must send a
letter of apology to the individuals
whom the student harassed.

March 14
Two members of the student
body have been found guilty of
violating Section P of the White
Book in that the students harassed
persons who participated in an
honor proceeding. Those students
have been placed on Conduct Pro-
bation for the remainder of the
1994-1995 academic year.

///r' /\'lII_L"/lllll I’/ii I/IL’ It:/lg-Iii/ii I‘/Ii I/n'l\’i/i_u-uuu I’/ii //iv Ix’/My-m/H /‘/II //It’ /x’/Hg-Iii/Ii /’/u //It
/\’i/rt:-In/ii I’/ii '/'/ic lr’iug-Iimi Wii The I\’i'n_u—rimi Pill The It’/n_g'—IimI I’/ii Hit’ I\’iIig—limi I’/ii 'I’/ic It’iu}:
/um I’/Ii 'I'/ic lt’iIi_g'—IimI I’IIi 'I'/it’ /(‘mg-Iimi I’/Ii ‘I’/Io Ir’iIi,t;-Iimi I’/Ii The It’/11,1,’-Ium I’/ii 'I'/it’ It’iIi_t:—Iimi

my "°°m “kc A“dr°Y 11 1" “"19 SIWP /'/u‘ ‘I’/it» It’iug-Iiun I’/ii '/'/to It’iIi.t:-limi I’/u" T/IL’ [Hug-Iimi /’/Ii T/IL’ /em;,»—:um I’lii T/IL’ /emgqmn I)/I.’

   

of Horrors. That would be cool-,

Whose Name I Will Wisely Not

want to carry a steaming beverage to

Coffeesicles, anyone?

   

//It’ I\’i/it-Iimi I’/ii 'I'lit' Itim:-/imi I’Iii T/iv Ring’-Imn I’lii I/It’ It’1'IIL'-/um I’/ii T/l(’ It’im1-nun I’/Ii

Winter rush debate disregards students’ interests

MY VIEW
Phil Carrott, ’96

The topic of a winter or deferred fraternity
rush has been a hot topic for some time at IFC
meetings and among some professors for more
months than most students know. The argu-
ments stem, as I understand them, from a five-
year plan made in 1989 that has obviously come
to term, the report made by the Co-education
Review Committee, and the desires of various
deans, including the Dean of Freshmen. These
documents, in combination with a report pre-
pared by the University of the South describing
universities similar to W&Lthat have moved to
a winter rush from a fall rush, have prompted
some professors, for whatever reason, to rec-
ommend exercising the trump card the faculty
holds over the students and move, forcibly,
fraternity rush to the winter.

There are markedly different “camps” among
the faculty in the reasoning for the move as I
have seen. One portion does not feel the de-
ferred pledgeship implemented in 1987 has
worked,and the students (the IFC) not enforc-
ing the plan effectively enough in years past.
This is the viewpoint the IFC is currently trying
to remedy with its fall pledgeship plan. Another
portion of the faculty (and the Dean of Fresh-
men) think the freshmen not only need more
time to make a social decision such as joining a
fraternity, but need a term free of commitments
such as rush to “get their feet on the ground”

academically. They believe fall term would
serve this purpose. In addition, there is the
camp from which Dr. H. Thomas Williams (the
professor who made the motion for deferring
rush at the last faculty meeting) comes, that
believes it is time to at least try winter rush for
reasons such as those enumerated in the Co-
education Review Committee’s report, the
Sewanee report, and the five year plan. They
believe the reasons for winter rush and the
“success” it has had at universities of similar
size are too overwhelming to ignore. Then there
are those three-plus professors who, for what-
ever reason (God bless them), voted with the
IFC and students. I would like to address these
different views and hopefully can make some
faculty think harder (if it is possible) about the
issue at hand.

The IFC held two meetings in the past two
months at which faculty, in some capacity,
were present and engaged in debate of the issue.
Although some student opinions were a bit
rough and perhaps fell on deaf ears from the
start, progress was made in my opinion (espe-
cially with the SAC, who is currently endorsing
the fall pledgeship plan set forth by the IFC).
The vote by the faculty, however, did not con-
firm this. Either our arguments did fall on deaf
ears or we students obviously do not know what
is in our best interest. I would argue (principally
to the first group from above) that despite the
arguments such as “we’d have to have parties
all the time and we’d run out of money,” or
“everyone would cheat and dirty rush,” or “the
freshmen would go out all the time, forgetting
their classes,” which are against winter rush;

arguments for a fall rush are more compelling.

First, it is an activity in which the vast
majority of freshmen get to know the vast
majority of the upperclass in a setting where
they are more likely to actually get to know the
upperclassmen in addition to their fellow class-
mates. (This does not apply to males exclu-
sively, freshman women are an integral part of
the rush party, as are their upperclass counter-
parts.) Rush is also better in the fall because it
has a definite end, where winter rush would
more or less require very
simple rules or no rules and

freshmen to drink beer at their house. After
rush, however, most houses are concerned with
initiating all of their pledges on time and do
want their freshmen to study, go to class, etc.
Besides, what better environment to get your
feet on the ground than in one in which numer-
ous students not only already have their feet on
the ground, but probably represent a variety of
disciplines? I think this might have been the
reasoningbehind the deferred pledgeship(which
has worked better in the past two years than in
years past that I know
of). For example, the
freshman midterm

could go on for five or six
weeks before both fresh-
men and upperclassmen tire
of the whole thing and turn
to their studies. This brings
up another argument that
freshmen should be ex-

After rush...most
houses are con-
cerned with initiat-
ing all of their

grades for my
fratemity’s pledge class
went up dramatically for
winter term as opposed
to fall term; I think this
was generally true for

posedtoacademicsfirstand P [edges on time most houses.

social activities second in and want their Winter rush, though,
an attempt to quiet the '°' if it is not a solution,
“work hard - play hard” freshlnento study, go should notbe an experi-

maxim of W&L. Frankly,
the freshmen will find out
sooner or later who will buy
them beer and who will not.

To Dean Manning and Dean Ruscio, it is
true that freshmen need a tenn to acclimate
themselves to their new environment, time to
learn how to study and to learn what will take up
their time orwhat tests need a lot of preparation.
I do not know of any fraternity that cares
whether a freshman is doing his work or drink-
ing beerduring rush, they just want to find some

to class, etc.

   

GENERAL

Free Yearbooks

Pick up a free copy of the 1992 and 1994
Calyx outside of the Calyx office on the second
ﬂoor of the University Center anytime.

Bikes

The security office still has a number of
student bicycles that were in the Grahm-Lees

.. laundry room over break. Please stop by if you
' are missing your bike.

Internships

There will be an internship weekly update

I on Wednesday, March 22, at 5:00 in Room 108
‘ of the University Center. All students are in-
. vited to attend.

NOTES '

   

Self-assessment

There will be a self-assessment workshp on
Wednesday, March 22, at 4:00 p.m. in Room
109 of the University Center. All students are
invited to attend.

Interviews

There will be an interview workshop on
Wednesday, March 23, at 4:00 p.m. in Room
109 of the University Center. All students are
invited to attend.

College Republicans

There will be a meeting of the College
Republicans on Tuesday, March 21, at 6:30 in
Room 113 of the University Center.

Information Session

Everyone is invited to an information ses-
sion on lntemational and Service Organiza-
tions on Monday, March 27, at 8:00 p.m.in du
Pont Auditorium. Alumni Jennifer Bandrowski,
91, Amanda Hughen, 91, and Gary
McCollough, 90, will discuss their experiences
with the Kennedy Center, Woodruff Arts Cen-
ter, WorldTeach, Colden Gate National Park
Association, and the Bill Wilkerson Hearing &
Speech Rehabilitation Center.

FD Pictures

Calyx is looking for Fancy Dress picutes. If
you have FD pictures and would like to see
them in the Calyx, please bring them to Edye in
Gaines 203 or bring them to the Calyx office in
the University Center.

ment either. I went to the
source and spoke with
Dr. Williams about win-
ter rush and his feeling
and the feelings around the faculty; I must say
his arguments were very informative and well-
reasoned. But I think too much of what Dr.
Williams and the faculty are putting forward
does not have enough student experience or
recent student experience behind it. The C0-
education Review Committee report had only
two student members as authors, and only opin-

To the editor:

ions from about four students, maybe less (I am
happy to say I was one of those four); this is a
little biased (especially with an 824 femalezmale
ratio for the committee itself). I would tend not
to accept the report no matter how objective its
authors were, just because the first-hand knowl-
edge or opinions of student life were not ex-
pressed in a quantity usually accepted by the
scientific community. I think the five-year plan
would come under similar fire, although I have
not read it. The Sewanee report cannot be
denied as a comprehensive study, but it can be
denied on the count that NONE of the schools
with winter rush systems are like W&L in
respects such as tradition, Greek system,
or atmosphere.

We are unique among liberal arts colleges in
our tradition and student freedom in learning in
various extra-curricular settings. The students,
as they did yesterday at the open honor trial,
have traditionally made the decisions concern-
ing their life.

I think there is a definite situation such as
with the Student-Faculty Hearing Board or
Student Affairs Committee, where we do not
always know what is best, but rush is not one of
those situations, especially when the IFC is
making progress in actually enforcing the rules
set down when we were in junior high school.

In order to change the student life, you must
first start with changing the students. If you
want winter rush, you’re going to have to pass
it by us in spirit no matter what. Please do what
is best for all aspects of Washington and Lee -
freshman and upperclassman, academic
and social.

LETTER

On behalf of the Student Affairs Committee, I am pleased to announce that the co-recipients
of the 1995 Edward L. Pinney Prize are Kelly Leigh Brotzman and Jonathan Jeremy Van Dyke.
This prize was established by the Washington and Lee faculty in memory of Edward Lee
Pinney, professor of politics, who died in 1980. It is awarded to the undergraduate student who
“demonstrates extraordinary committment both to personal scholarship and to the nurturing of

intellectual life at Washington and Lee.”
Congratualations to Kelly and Jonathan.

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

 

O
 Last week s column by Alex Christensen ran under the headline Court trip more important than classwork”. The writer does not feel it reflected his meaning.

A Hunk-a Hunk-a burnin’ love

The Ring-tum Phi:

 

 

 

4

V.
K

k

«E

4

The Ring-tum Phi, March 17, 1995

    

HEIIISTGGFBI

Selected Varieties

1/2 gal.
sunshine 2/ O Caramel or

Cheez-W5 _1O oz.   
/» ~ \ Orville Reclenbacher’s

  Microwave
Po corn

Vt»

  
    
  

    
 

.-|“"'

 
 
  
   

v . . , V‘
l ‘fay

 

  
   
    
  

  
    

. P» . ARTIFWMIV FllVllRFll F7.'r1
.1 1:22}

Selected
Varieties

 
  

. mchowivz
I é

 1 8-21 oz.
0 s T   cbrru Eldi  
..—::.;.:;..*;'av 2/ an c:'.:.t.°c.:..°" "9 a"
Juice 54  3:2-’:.'.-:2 Chowder_.9o..

NEW Baking Soda/Peroxide

Colgate
Tooth as te

9

6-6.4 oz.
Soft Drink Feat re

 

Caffeine Free, Caffeine Free Diet

Coke Or Diet
Coke

29

O
iF$‘i’s ...f”3°

Designer/Decorated

Scottowels

13/ O

_ 6Pk.
sq. ft. 20 OZ. 
Harris Teeter Ore lda

Ko_sher Dill 29
Pickles _¢.. 1

no ' s '
Be5‘3‘i37'wgé"‘°'§/ o ¥2?fg"y 5/100
Juice 54.... Lemons ea.

Prices Effective Through March 21, 1995

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, March 15 Through March 21, 1995
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food stamps.

%

PAGE 7

” \

Athletes of the Week

Brooke Glenn
Women’s Lacrosse

Tommy Dudley
Golf

File Pho

The Washingto’n and Lee wox_nen’s locrosse team dropped a contest to Lynchburg, but
the news wasn t all bad as Nlcole Rlpken was named ODAC Player of the week. The
score 1n the Lynchburg game was 13-5.

 

 

    
 

~‘ '/////////I///IﬂﬂﬂI////////ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ/%/ﬂﬂﬂﬂlﬂﬂﬂ/ﬂ#ﬂ%%%ﬂ%W

Tuna from the
not the deep frver.

SL9 f o limited time

   
  
  

if 'V’§5“’;I3&;tL

63-2

., : mam. v v.-.u=-.«- x'K*r1-7--.\umax:'v1l:.'.:nI'K"T::":...: ~.<:>.-.:.-.m1auur:r:a., c 7

/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////ﬂ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////W/J/ﬂ////ﬂ///////ﬂ////////////ﬂ////////ﬂ////////ﬂ//////////////ﬂﬂ/////////M '

   

«:-/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////J//ﬂﬂ%/////ﬂ//ﬂ///////////ﬂ%ﬂﬁﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁ//W/ﬂﬁﬁﬁﬂﬂﬂﬁ/%ZJ%%%ﬂ//%%%%ﬂ%ﬂﬂﬂﬂ//ﬂﬂﬂﬂ//%//////////WA

 

 

  

This Week: ’

— Men's and women’s tennis host Kenyon
College

Last Week:

— Men's lacrosse continues win streak with
victory over Lynchburg.

(J11: ﬂing-mm lﬂhi

— Men's lacrosse take on Gettysburg on

-— Baseball fights through 9-9 contest against ,
Saturday V

Hampden Sydney

3

PORTS  

BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, GOLF

MARCH 17, 1995

The W&L baseball team played an odd game yesterday as the Gei:1ll:1?zti(l): tied

Hampden Sydney 9-9 in ten innings with a ﬁnal of 9-9. The team record now

stands at 3-9.

 

Baseball returns with Victory  

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee
baseball squad continued the ef-
fort to climb out of its offensive
funk last week, as the Generals
won one of three league games to
set their record at 3-8 overall,
and 1-2 in the ODAC.

The Generals traveled to
Ashland, Virginia, on Saturday
to square off in a doubleheader
with Randolph-Macon, but the
Yellow Jackets treated their
guests rudely by sweeping the
twinbill, 7-0, and 8-2.

However, W&L returned to
the victory column on Tuesday
by knocking off Eastern Menno-
nite at home by a count of 4-2,.
The Generals tied Hamden-
Sydney, 9-9, on Thursday after-
noon.

Unfortunately for the Gener-
als, they collided with a red-hot
pitcher in the first game on Satur-
day.

Randolph-Macon’s Jimmy
Mathews confounded the W&L
offense by not allowing a single
baserunner until the sixth inning.
By the time the Generals were
finally able to reach base, the
contest was no longer in doubt as
Mathews and the Yellow Jackets
cruised, 7-0.

W&L ﬁnished with a scant
two hits on the game to go along
with its shaky defensive play.
One bright spot for the Generals
was the pitching performance of
senior Bates Brown, who entered
in relief in the fourth inning.
Brown was quickly taken down-
town by the Yellow Jackets, al-
lowing a home run to the first
batter he faced, but the senior
found a groove as he retired the
ﬁnal eight R-MC hitters.

The second game began with
promise forthe Generals, but ﬁn-
ished similarly to the opener.
Junior Matt Errnigiotti smacked
a triple and trotted home follow-

ing the first of two hits on the
game -by senior Todd Stanton, to
hand the Generals a short-lived
1-0 advantage. However, the
Yellow Jackets didn’t waste
much time in reversing the mo-
mentum.

‘R-MC served up a four-run
inning in the third to grab a 4-1
lead, and never broke stride the
rest ofthe way, ﬁnishing with an
8-2 victory and a doubleheader
sweep.

“We didn’t play very good,”
Head coach Jeff Stickley com-
mented about the doubleheader.
“Our pitching was pretty good,
but we didn’t swing the bats real
well.”

Washington and Dec returned
to the comfortable conﬁnes of
Smith Field and 75-degree tem-
peratures on Tuesday afternoon
as Eastern Mennonite journeyed
down from Harrisonburg to op-
pose the Generals and Bates
Brown.

Brown, the star relief pitcher
in the first game of the Randolph-
Macon doubleheader, was given
the starting nod by Stickley in the
hope of erasing the memory of
the doubleheader sweep and start-
ing off the Generals’ four-game
homestand in successful fashion.
He did not let Stickley down, as
the senior pitcher settled in after
early control problems and
mowed down Eastern Menno-
nite into the eighth inning, yield-
ing only two runs on the day.

“Bates battled hard, since he
didn’t have his breaking stuff,”
Stickley mentioned. “He got into
trouble early, but he worked out
of it.”

As much of a presence as
Brown provided on the mound,
he equally frightened Eastern
Mennonite at the plate. Brown
blasted three hits, including a pair
of doubles, in four chances at bat.

Ermigiotti replaced the tiring
Brown in the eighth inning, but
he did not provide an improved

)\

nonite hitters. The junior shut‘
out Eastern for the final two in-
nings to notch his ﬁrst save of the
season in the Generals;’ 4-2 tri-
umph. ,

Equally sweet in the skid-
breakingwinwasthe factthatther
Generals’ defense did not com-
mit an error. '

W&L faced Hampden-
Sydney on Thursday at home,
and finished in a wild 9-9 dead--.,.
lock.

Rob Boston entered inrelief
in the top of the seond and pitched
out of a bases-loaded jam by in-
ducing a H-S ﬂyout and double
play. ”

Boston remained on the
mound for the next nine innings
before the game was called on
acoount of darkness in the tenth
inning. Starting pitcher Mark.’-
Hazelwood went the distance for
Hampden-Sydney.

Brown continued his hot hit-
ting by turning in a 2 for 6 effort,
including three RBl’s. Junior

Preston Miller went 3 for 4 for“

the Generals.

The remaining two games on
the homestand assume an even
more important signiﬁcance for
W&L, since it embarks on a
stretch of six of the next eight
games on the road, which begins
this Wednesday at Lynchburg
College.

“The home-ﬁeld advantage is
a big deal in our conference,”
remarked Stickley. “I feel that
it’s worth at least a run in every
game.”

The Generals remain at Smith

Field for a doubleheader on Sat- ,-

urday with Virginia Wesleyan,
which is perennially one of the
top teams in the ODAC.
Stickley expresses conﬁdence
over the upcoming contests.

“We’re looking forward to '

winning a couple games at
home,” he stated. “We’ve
struggled offensively lately, but
we’ll break out of it soon. We’re

opportunity for the Eastern Men- heading in the right direction.” ‘V

Men top Wooster

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s men’s tennis team needed a big victory
after losing two matches to start the season.

It was unlikely to think that the Generals would record their first
match victory against a team that came into the match ranked 13th
nationally in Division III. But that is exactly what happened as the
team knocked off Wooster last Saturday at home, 5-2.

The key to W&L’s victory was the fact that they swept all of the
doubles matches. ln number one doubles, the tandem of Chris
MacNaughton and Jesse Taylor put away the favored Wooster pair of
Warren Cham-a-koon and Joe J enckes, 8-5. This crucial win set the
tone for the rest of the match.

The number two duo of Damian Brady and Clay Richards won
easily, 8-1. W&L’s number three tandem, Glenn Miller and Ryan
Aday won in similar fashion, 8-2.

The team carried the momentum of the doubles victories into the
singles matches. Taylor, Aday, Miller, and Brady all chalked up wins
as W&L sealed the match.

The Generals, now ranked 19th, return to the hard court this week,
‘expecting tough matches from two teams ranked in the top twenty-

1V6.

They defeated 21st ranked Ripon on Tuesday, they next challenge
23rd ranked Kenyon on Saturday.

Women fall 13-5

By Karm GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

After starting a perfect 3-0 on
the Liberty Hall Fields, the
women’s lacrosse team suffered
its first defeat Thursday.

The Generals fell by a 13-5
margin at Lynchburg. The Hor-
nets had knocked the Generals
out of last year’s Old Dominion
AthleticConferenceToumament
with a 12-6 win, but W&L could
not muster any revenge in its ﬁrst
road game of the ‘95 season.

Senior tri-captain Lindsay
Coleman would not be denied
her typical offensive output, net-
ting three goals to lead the scor-
ing against Lynchburg.

Senior tri -captain, and ODAC
playerof the week, Nicole Ripken
and freshman Whitney Parker
registered a goal each to round
out the scoring. Sophomore
goalie Brooke Glenn stopped
eleven shots during a busy day in
net.

Glenn, despite the loss, had an
outstanding week in goal for
W&L(3-1,2-1 ODAC).The lone
goalie on the Generals’ roster
earned the school’s Athlete of
the Week honor for her perfor-
mance in the ﬁrst two victories of
the season.

Following up on last week’s
15-2 season opening win over

Bridgewater, Glenn picked up
ten saves versus Division II Lock
Haven as the Generals came from
behind fora thrilling 10-9 win on
Saturday.

Trailing 9-7 late in the game,
W&L got goals from sophomore
Erika Snyderwith 6:02 left, from
Parker with 4:03 to go, and
Coleman netted the game winner
20 seconds later on a pass from
Ripken.

Glenn shut down the Bald
Eagles during the rally to ensure
the victory.

On Monday, the goaltender
was not needed quite as much as
Washington & Lee took a grid-
iron-like 20-0 lead to halftime.
Head coach Jan Hathom merci-
fully rested her starters for the
ﬁnal 30 minutes in route to the
24-5 ﬁnal score.

Even Glenn got a break as

senior defender Sarah
Aschenbach made her debut in
goal.

The 24 goal outburst tied
W&L’s single-game record. In
1993, Randolph-Macon
Women’s College was the vic-
tim of a 24-4 beating by the Gen-
erals.

Next up will be another road
ODAC affair. The team travels
south to Guilford in hopes of
picking up its third conference
win, then returns to the Liberty
Hall Fields on Wednesday to
meet Randolph-Macon.

Wednesday. The next match for the Generals is Saturday at Gettysburg.

Men’s lacrosse continues strong start .

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Washington & Lee men’s la-
crosse is off to its best start in 15
years, and not a monent too soon.

The 5-0 Generals travel to
Gettysburg on Saturday to face
the second-ranked team in Divi-
sion III. ‘The Bullets (2-0) are
coming off of a 15-4 win against
fourth-ranked Denison, and re-
turn most of their players from
last season’s 12-2 squad.

“We match up well against
them,” said Generals’ head coach
Jim Stagnitta. “lt’s been a good
game the last two years.”

Gettysburg has won four
straight versus W&L going back
to the Generals’ 8-7 double-over-
time win in 1990.

In last year’s meeting, the then
fifth-ranked Bullets pulled away
with four straight second-half
goals for a 10-7 win under the
lights at Rockbridge County High
School.

Among Gettysburg’s key re-
turnees is senior defenseman
Brian McGurn and senior

attackman Tim Demore, whose
63 assists and 96 points in ‘94
were both school records. This
season, Demore has registered
eleven points (6 goals, 5 assists)
through two games.

W&L was ranked seventh by
the preseason USI LA poll, but is
in good position to move up with
a strong showing Saturday.

The Generals improved to 5-0
Wednesday with a 11-5 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference win
against 17th-ranked Lynchburg.
Ahead of W&L, #5 Roanoke was
abused by top-rated and defend-
ing champion Salisbury_State in
a demoralizing 30-8 loss on the
Maroons’ home field.

Also, Denison was beaten by
#16 Franklin & Marshall, in ad-
dition to their loss to Gettysburg.

Wednesday, the Generals
upped their ODAC record to 3-0,
thanks to sophomore goalie Doug
Gubner’s 15 saves against the
Hornets (3-3, 0-1 ODAC).

W&L scored the first four
goals of the game and led 6-] late
in the first half. However,
Lynchburg’s Scott Nelson scored
with just 1 8seconds left and Chris
Esibill netted one ﬁve minutes

into the third quarter to cut the
margin to 6-3.

Junior Adam Butterworth
eased the Wislon Field crowd’s
fears with a goal just 50 seconds
later. Junior Russell Croft and
Esibill traded goals before senior
Andy Dutton scored with just 38
seconds left in the third to give
the Generals a comfortable 9-4
lead going into the ﬁnal 15 min-
utes.

Junior Ande Jenkins scored
twice early in the fourth and tin-
ished with a game-high three
goals and one assist. Jenkins leads
W&L with 22 points, including
16 goals.

Croft, Butterworth, Dutton,
and senior Scott Mackley netted
two goals apiece for the Gener-
als.

W&L has now outscored its
opponents 73-30 through five
games, yet has often gotten off to
a slow start before pulling away
late. Stagnitta hopes to see more
consistent play from his experi-
enced offense.

“We’re real happy about the
defense,” he said. “We would
just like to see some more consis-
tency on offense.”

Pht b etsy Gree, The Rirmllg-tttum Phi ,
The men’s lacrosse team improved to 5-0 on the season with a victory over 17th ranked Lynchburg on’

Last weekend, Jenkins and
Mackley each posted back—to-
back four goal games as the Gen-
erals won the second-annual

W&L Tournament with ten goal ’‘

victories over Randolph-Macon
(20-10) and Trinity, CT (16-6).
Both of those teams are ranked in
the top-25 nationally, as are a

total of ten of W&L’s 14 oppo- V

nents.

The harsh schedule has so far
paid off as the team is off to its
best start ever at the Division III
level, a move they made in 1987.

The 1980 Generals began their
campaign 5-O before losing to
Virginia, 13-8.

They then posted another five
game winning streak in route to a

10-3 regular season. Their run 7

ended with a 12-4 NCAA Tour-
nament quarterfinal loss to Syra-
cuse in what would be W&L’s
last appearance in Division I post-
season play.

7
After facing Gettysburg, the

Generals get a full-week to pre-
pare for perenial rival Roanoke.
That match-up annually decides
the ODAC championship, and
this year W&L hasthe advantage
of hosting the game.

 

 

