1 

;5’~
/

4‘.a,.

 .. ...‘ .1...  It ‘ ‘I
,:- 1-" - »q 4' "1-4 ~,- I gal..',R_,

»,..,
f.'7.I"

9

.‘\

FREE FAllINGmIl{\ilIwC)j A
DRop ZONE REVIEW

or ..

Men's Basketball has
a NCAA record-

breaking week

iting-tum Iﬂlri

VOLUME 94, NO. yi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 13, 1995

SAC reinstates FIGI,
winter Rush planned

FIJI is back as Washington and Lee's 15th fraternity, after being reinstated by the Stu-

dent Affairs Committee.

Fall term grades in, Pi
Beta Phi, Sig Ep on top

Fall Term Grades

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

The report cards have arrived and Pi. ,

Beta Phi and Sigma Phi Epsilon are at
the head of the class.

Pi Phi had a grade point average of
3.243 and Sig Ep’s GPA was 3.091.
Chi Omega was the second highest
sorority and Lambda Chi Alpha was
the second highest fraternity

The 2.994 all-student GPA was
lower than all four sororities, the all-
women, and non-sorority women, but
higher than 12 fraternities, all-men,
and non-fratemity men.

Dean of Students Dean Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins said he was happy to
see three fraternities above a 3.0, par-
ticularly since “the sororities have been
it for a while.”

Dean of Freshman and Residence
Life Dennis Manning also said the
freshman class GPA “was excellent
and much improved from the
midterm grades.”

Manning also said that the number
of students below a 1.5 GPA
was “typical.”

The statistics provided by the Dean
of Students Office state that 14 fresh-
man men received grades lower than a
1.5. Last year, 14 freshman were be-
low a 1.5, and in 1993, 19 were below
the 1.5 mark.

Atkins offered advice to “chapters
that find themselves in the bottom half
year in and year out...can escape it if
they make academics a priority
for both the chapter and
individual members.”

All of the general GPA categories
remained fairly constant over the last
two years. No GPA has moved more
than 0.1 points since 1992.

SAB brin

Pi Beta Phi

Chi Omega

All Sorority Women
Kappa Alpha Theta
Kappa Kappa Gamma
All Women
Non-Sorority Women
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Lambda Chi Alpha
Pi Kappa Alpha

All Students

Kappa Alpha

Phi Kappa Psi
Sigma Nu

Kappa Sigma

Chi Psi

Sigma Chi

All Fraternity Men
All Men
Non-Fratemity Men
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Phi Delta Theta

Pi Kappa Phi

Phi Gamma Delta
Beta Theta Phi V
Phi Kappa Sigma

3.243
3.209
3.201
3.173
3.162
3.143
3.096
3.091
3.083
3.017
2.994
2.962
2.956
2.948
2.931
2.921
2.915
2.895
2.893
2.885
2.861
2.861
2.860
2.715
2.686
2.546

The fall term GPAs for Greeks, independents, and men and

women, and the entire student body have been tabulated.

gs pudding

Wrestling to W&L

By PETE WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

the three to four minute matches. A referee will
enforce rules that ban bikinis, body slams,
and...men wrestling women.

Combine 350 pounds of Hormel pudding
mix and 200 gallons of water, offer Fancy
Dress, tickets as prizes, and you have the
Student Activities Board’s latest event:

Chocolate pudding wrestling.

By Tuesday, 22 people, most of them
fraternity pledges, had signed up to wrestle.
The free event will take place in Ddremus

Gym Jan. 18th at 8 p.m.

The SAB has hired an entertainment com-

. pany headed by Bruce Rosenbaum to put on
the show. Rosenbaum and three others will
assemble the 12 by 12 foot ring in about 45
minutes. The roped, elevated ring will hold

three inches of pudding.
What is his secret recipe?

“We pour it in there and stir it up with a
“Just stir

stick, man,” Rosenbaum said.
and stir.”

Wrestlers will wear t-shirts and shorts for

According to Rosenbaum, age and experi-
ence are not important.

“You can’t get too much leverage because
it’s slick and slimy.”

His advice: “Go for the legs, man. You
gotta get the legs out.”

Reaction on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus has been mixed.

“I think people are kind of apprehensive
about it,” said Michelle Richardson,
SAB’s advisor.

Hollis Leddy, SAB’s publicity chairman,
said she has sought female participants for
several weeks.

“I think it’s just an event that most girls just
aren’t comfortable with here at W&L,” Leddy
said.

But Rosenbaum, who’s been doing this for
15 years, said people have the wrong image of

I->See PUDDING, page 2

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

After one year of campus suspen-
sion, Phi Gamma Delta fraternity has
returned to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity with an intention to focus on
the future.

“We’re just glad it’s over,” said FIJI
president Stephen Cokkinias. The Stu-
dent Affairs Committee voted unani-
mously Dec. 9 to reinstate the frater-
nity Jan. 1.

The fraternity was suspended for 18
months last winter after being found
guilty for violating the university policy
on hazing, but agreed to complete a 10-
step plan of action so that the SAC
would lessen the sentence.

“It was no longer an issue of who’s
right andwho’swrong,” said Cokkinias.
“It was an issue of what can we do to
get back on campus. We worked very
hard over the past year, and we com-
pleted each of the 10 points.”

The plan of action asked that FIJI
show the SAC that there had been
changes in attitude and behavior. Dean
of Students David Howison, who is
chairof the SAC, sent a letter to student
leaders informing them of
the reinstatement.

“The Student Affairs Committee
commended the leadership of FIJI for
its dedicated and successful efforts to
achieve a special 10-Point Plan of Ae-
tion...” Howison wrote.

Ralph “Moke” Wolfe III, last year’s
FIJI president, said he was
“freaking ecstatic.”

“I was not happy about the whole
situation, but I’m glad its behind us.
Now we have a situation that we can
build a fraternity on.”

Both Cokkinias and Wolfe said they
wanted to concentrate on the future of
the fraternity rather than the past.

“I hope that there’s going to be
something positive to come out of this,”
said Wolfe. “I hope the university will
say, now lets really attack the problem
of hazing. This isn’t about FIJI any-
more, it’s about hazing.”

Cokkinias hoped to concentrate
on brotherhood.

“The attitude of the brothers is that
the whole situation has brought our
house closer together,” he said.

FIJI now plans to hold an informal,
deferred rush, kicked off by a party
Saturday night with the band Blue
Miracle at the FIJI house.

“There has been a group of people
who have expressed interest in joining,

but we have not torn anyone yet,”
Cokkinias said. “We hope to form a
pledge class over the next few weeks.”

Cokkinias and Wolfe were looking
toward the party as a sort of re—intro-
duction of FIJI to the campus.

“We want to let freshmen know that
there really is a 15th fraternity on cam-
pus now, and it’s going to operate just
like any other fraternity,” Cokkinias
said. He said their social calendar for
the rest of the year will be similar to the
rest of the campus fraternities, and will
include a semi-forrnal, a mixer, and the
traditional FIJI Islands in April.

Cokkinias is looking forward to
being able to address the campus as a
fraternity once again.

“When you’re away from campus
for 12 months, a lot of questions arise
that you are not able to address, a lot of
rumors get started that are false. We
will be glad to have a chance to clear up
any misconceptions in the next few
months,” he said.

Wolfe, who will be visiting campus
this weekend along with several other
alumni to celebrate the return of FIJI,
was looking forward to the party.

“I will be drinking many beverages
to celebrate the good judgment of the
SAC,” he said.

EC, Contact clash over lack of
speakersandsunused money

By MICHAEL Hswuzrr
Phi Staff Writer

Political inﬁghting has kept Contact from getting more
prominent speakers, according to some Executive Commit-
tee members at Monday night’s meeting.

Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork and former Sur-
geon General C. Everett Koop have fallen through as speak-
ers. Contact brought three speakers last fall: John Berendt,
author of Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, Repub-
lican congressman Bob Goodlatte and Edward Cleary, au-
thor of Beyond the Burning Cross.’ The First Amendment
and the Landmark R.A.V. Case. 1

“It seems they’ve been unable to succeed at anything
they’ve tried,” said EC president Kevin Webb.

_Webb said a struggle between the liberals and conserva-
tives in the organization has been going on all Fall term. He
said the group has been unable to resolve disagreements
about speakers.

Webb expressed concern about giving money to an
organization that has not done anything.

“I have serious problems with the leadership living up to
their responsibilities,” he said.

EC law representative and Contact member Jim Pike said
Contact’s problems aren’t the fault of one person.

EC vice-president Alex Cross said the blame for Contact’s
problems must be placed on the president, senior
Andrew Schneider.

‘‘In any organization, the president has a responsibility to
the student body,” he said, “to bring speakers to the school
regardless of whether they agree with the choice of speaker
or not.”

He said Contact has only spent only a fraction of the
money allotted to them.

“My opinion is that if we give (an organization) $30,000,
they should spend the money,” he said.

Pike said although there has been disagreement about
speakers, much of the dissension has been resolved.

Pike said the problems started when Contact decided that
a consensus should be the rule which often made it difficult
to choose speakers. He said this was done because Contact
had been criticized in the past for the tendency to bring
conservative speakers. Contact now has a 2/3 majority
requirement to decide on speakers.

Pike said another problem has been unavailable speak-
ers. He said the speakers they have brought to the school
have been cheap.

Cross said if the speakers have been cheap, then Contact
should have spent more money and bring more speakers ——
not less.

Schneider said the group has committed about $8000. He
said the rest of the money has not been spent because
speakers such as Bork and Koop have fallen through.

“If you look at other Contact committees, the major
speakers weren’t booked until the second semester,”
he said.

Schneider said there had been inﬁghting last semester
over speakers, especially Lani Guinier, the former nominee
for the Civil Rights division in the department of Justice.
President Clinton withdrew her name from the nomination
amidst controversy over her legal writings.

“The whole idea of Lani Guinier was to provide a balance
to Robert Bork since they had opposing views,” he said. “A
lot of people on Contact felt she was a liberal crackpot.”

The committee decided against bringing Guinier to cam-
pus, but the American Civil Liberties Union, the Minority
Student Association, and other organizations are bringing
her to campus in February.

Schneider said the political inﬁghting has ended and
things are going smoothly this term. Contact has already
booked Helen Thomas, UPI White House correspondent,
forJanuary 31 and Richard Preston, author of The Hot Zone,
for March 9.

Contact as well as other organizations will meet with the
EC in the next two weeks to discuss budget concerns.

“The EC can rest assured that we’ll be spending its
money,” he said. .

Oh whatta Rush!

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Pi Beta Phi prepares for Sisterhood Night by ﬁlling balloons with helium as room decorations. Rush
wrapped up on Thursday with Pref Night. Bids are handed out on Jan. 13.

BEYOND

THE BLUE RIDGE

Ceaseﬁre in Chechnya ends prematurely

A 48-hourceaseﬁre called in order to let both Russia and Chechnya bury
their dead came to an abrupt halt when shots broke out again. The Clinton
Administration tightened its criticisms of Russia’s assault on the breakaway
nation, drawing Russia’s trustworthiness into question.

Pope embarks on 20,000 mile tour

Pope John Paul II left the Vatican City Wednesday, beginning an 11-
day, 20,000 mile pilgrimage to the Philippines, Papua New Guinea,
Australia and Sri Lanka. This is the 63rd foreign tour forthe Pope. The pope
will emphasize the need for coexistence among differing religions and

ethnic groups.

Croatian President to end UN forces

 

 

The Ri

n -tum Phi Janu

 

13 1995

Seasonal Affective Disorder might
storm in during the Winter months

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

Is the winter the worst time of year
for you? Do you feel more depressed?
Do you overeat? Are you exhausted all
the time? Do you lack motivation for
your daily activities? Do you feel guilty
about your increased lethargy during
the winter?

Well, don’t. It’s possible the prob-
lem isn’t you. You may be experienc-
ing symptoms of Seasonal Affective
Disorder, or what’s more commonly
referred to as SAD.

Formally recognized by the Ameri-
can Psychiatric Association in 1987,
Seasonal Affective Disorder is a psy-
chological and physical ailment that
touches over 20 percent of the United
States’ population.

It’s characterized by a depressed
mood during the winter months due to
the lack of sunlight. Cases can range
from nagging doldrums to clinical de-
pression. Evidence shows that SAD
affects four times as many women as
men and may be hereditary.

SAD is the physical and psychologi-,
cal response of the body to the winter’s
increased darkness and cold. During
the winter, the days become shorter.
There is less sunlight. Researchers have
determined that the lack of sunlight

causes signiﬁcant changes in seasonal
body rhythms. This affects the pro-
duction of the hormone, melatonin.
Generated by the brain during the night
hours, melatonin induces fatigue which
makes the body rest. During the winter
months when the nights are longer,
more melatonin is produced and the
body feels overly tired. In addition to
fatigue, a SAD sufferer may also ex-
perience greater depression, increased
appetite for carbohydrate—rich foods
which produce energy, and loss in
interest in daily activities. In effect,
the brain is being starved of sunlight
which would inhibit the production
of melatonin.

Aside from the very real physical
ramiﬁcations of SAD, there are also
pronounced psychological effects.
SAD sufferers are more depressed dur-
ing the winter. They crave energy-rich
foods and tend to overeat. This results
in weight gain which introduces nega-
tive feelings of guilt. Patients show a
noticeable decrease in interest for their
daily activities. Closely related to that
is the lack of motivation to start and
complete tasks.

Dr. Norman Rosenthal, Chief of
Environmental Psychiatry at the Na-
tional Institute of Mental Health, is
especially concerned with children
who suffer from Seasonal Affective
Disorder. According to his estimates,

more than a million teens suffer from
SAD. Like other SAD sufferers, they
are battered by fatigue and depression,
however they may be misdiagnosed.
To explain their lack of interest in
school, many teens with SAD are often
labeled as having Attention Deﬁcit
Disorder which is more commonly as-
sociated with lack of attention.

The good news is SAD is treatable
with light therapy. Patients are in-
structed to sit for one hour a day in front
of a panel of light which is a bright
broad-spectrum‘—artiﬁcial light with
characteristics similar to sunlight. Re-
searchers claim that SAD patients have
shown dramatic improvements within
four days of treatment.

Michael Terman, Director of the
Winter Depression Program in New
York, says that 75 to 90 percent of
patients are successfully treated with
light therapy.

The light boxes, themselves, can be
very expensive. The average price is
$400. Accordingly, doctors have sug-
gested less costly ways to combat SAD.
The use of more lights around the house
is strongly recommended as is getting
out more during the daylight hours.

Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer-Lamont, a University Coun-
seling Psychologist, believes Seasonal
Affective Disorder is not common on
the Washington and Lee campus.

‘‘I have diagnosed at least one stu-
dent with SAD. In most cases, there are
other factors which cause depression
in students,” Schroer-Lamont said, “Al-
cohol abuse, smoking, and lack of ex-
ercise are more commonly associated
with winter depression than SAD which
results solely from light deprivation.”

However, Schroer-Lamont did
agree that some students may be suf-
fering from SAD and choosing not to
seek help from University counselors.
She also stated that the University
Counseling staff is capable of identify-
ing SAD.

“Some students may be experienc-
ing SAD and not getting help. Some
involve mild cases where the student is
capable of handling it on his own,
while others may have severe cases
and should get help,” she said.

Schroer-Lamont is especially inter-
ested in nutrition and proper exercise
as a way to cope with winter depres-
sion. She advocates that students take
extra care to make sure they exercise
during the colder months.

“With the lack of outdoor activities
during the winter, students need to ﬁnd
alternatives for exercising outdoors,”
she said.

“Using the indoor track, campus
weight rooms, gym facilities, and
aerobics are more important in the win-
ter than in the warmer months.”

The President of Croatia intends to end the UN peacekeeping forces in
Croatia. Sources say this could lead to expansion in the war in the Balkans.
Diplomats say this is a further indication of the unwillingness of both

parties to accept the help of mediating forces.

The Nation 

Judiciary Committeeapproves balanced budget amendment

The House Judiciary Committee approved Wednesday a balanced
budget amendment that requires a three-fifths majority to raise taxes. This
amendment is opposed by moderate Republicans and conservative Demo-

crats. The House will vote on it in two weeks.

Senate approves workplace laws

The Senate approved Wednesday night a bill to force the House and
Senate to comply with the anti-discrimination, safety and other workplace
rules that they impose on other employers. The bill was part of the list of
Republican campaign promises that helped that helped the party win
elections Nov. 8. The legislation promises, according to the GOP, an end

to the privileged status of congressional members.

New evldencesays OJ beat, threatened Nicole

By PETE WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

Wearing a black, 1970’s jumpsuit and a red ban-
danna, Sigma Phi Epsilon pledge Dan Tipton moved
across the stage like a Russian folk dancer as he
mouthed the words to “Celebration” by Kool & the
Gang. The 575 students in the Pavilion that night
cheered the act, and the judges awarded Sig Ep first
place in last year’s “Lip Synch” contest.

On Jan. 20th, the ninth annual “Lip Synch” con-
test returns to Washington and Lee to entertain stu-
dents and help the hungry. Students Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger will sponsor the event and
give 90 percent of the proceeds to local food pantries.

“lt’s one of the few times that the entire school has
the opportunity to come together,” Tipton said. “You
get a chance to show off or be an idiot, and it’s OK.”

“It’s kind of like a party atmosphere,” said public-
ity chairman Emily Hazlett. “It’s fun music, and
you’re watching your friends up on stage.”

“This is a big-time show,” said Jerry Darrell,
event founder and director of University
Food Services.

Last year, 24 groups, most of them Greek organi-
zations, participated. The Minority Student Associa-
tion ﬁnished second for their version of “Whoop,
There It Is!” Third place went to the Chi Omega
Seniors who did “If” by Janet Jackson.

Four-man Fifth Beat j ams
at the Coffeehouse

According to Hazlett, dance routines and songs
from the ’70s and ’80s are popular. The best acts are
well-dressed, well-choreographed, and “people are
singing the right lyrics,” Hazlett said. Tipton sug-
gested that groups practice a lot and wear
memorable costumes.

The contest has changed through the years.

“Nine years ago, we began this event in the Pit
with four acts,” Darrell said. “Because of the tremen-
dous response on campus, the event was moved to the
Pavilion a few years ago.”

In past years, MTV sponsored a national lip synch
contest. Two W&L acts competed in the ﬁnals in
Florida and won: Fiji in 1990 and Sig Ep in 1992.
When MTV ended their contest, the W&L competi-
tion continued.

Planners also changed who the event helps.

Originally, Students Against Multiple Sclerosis
sponsored the event to beneﬁt the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society. Last year, the group gave some of
the money to the Rockbridge Area
Relief Association.

This year, they changed their name to Students
Against Rockbridge Area Hunger and will use 90
percent of the proceeds to buy food for ﬁve local food
pantries. The other 10 percent will go to
multiple sclerosis.

“We expect to raise about $4,000 this year,”
Darrell said. He said that he will buy food at 14 cents
a pound from the Blue Ridge Area Food Bank in

Lip Synch could bring in $4000 for food

Verona and deliver it to local food pantries
for distribution.

“I think about the logistics of getting [the food]
here,” Darrell said. “We may need a convoy.”

Ellen McCoy, RARA’s director, said that last
year’s lip synch money helped the non-proﬁt organi-
zation move to a larger food pantry. She said that
food contributions would help RARA provide

' other services.

“If I don’t have to go out and buy $300 worth of
food, then I can go out and help six families keep their
electricity on,” McCoy said. .

Darrell hopes other groups in addition to fratemi-
ties and sororities will participate.

“We’re really looking for participation from cam-
pus organizations,” Darrell said. “We’d love to have
some faculty/staff acts.”

Groups of up to six participants can sign-up at the
Snack Bar from Jan. 16-19th. The entry fee is $30.
Spectator admission is $4. The doors open at 9 p.m.,
and the beer garden is open to those with proper ID.

Beth Provanzana, SARAH chairman, said judges
will rate the groups on choreography, costumes, and
lip synch. First prize is $100 and two Fancy Dress
Ball tickets. Second prize is $50 and 2 FD tickets.
Third prize is $50.

“We were performing with the purpose of helping
others in need,” Tipton said.

“It makes it truly worthwhile and not just a show-
case of talent.”

Pudding

Get to know
Ms. Gilbert,

Wrestling Mr_ Krupp,

O.J. Simpson beat his wife Nicole, repeatedly stalked her and threat- By LORI RAMSEY . While Played the Pl3_“° and dT“”_‘5
ened to decapitate any of the boyfriends who drove his car, say sworn Phi Staff writer :1 h(1igh Scvlslcgiand has Slnce played In   I I M s  
an s at . ' I

statements made in court Thursday. According to the statements, the abuse

began shortly after the two met in 1977. The evidence contains sworn Fifth Beat plays a combination of

statements of acquaintances of the Simpsons, as well as entries from a diary
that Nicole Simpson maintained to support her divorce case against her

husband.

The State

Dispute disrupts General Assembly

An angry dispute forced the Virginia General Assembly to adjourn
Thursday and Governor George Allen to give his annual State of the
Commonwealth Address on TV. It was the first time in Virginia history that
a governor has been blocked from delivering his opening day speech
directly to the assembly. The argument arose when Republicans and
Democrats disagreed over procedural powers, after which the Democrats
adjourned and walked out without adopting any rules.

General Assembly meets to discus Allen's proposed cuts

On Saturday, Jan. 7, the four-man
band Fifth Beat played in the Pit.

The Coffeehouse was sponsored by
the Society for the Arts and
Student Activities.

Fifth Beat consists of four Wash-
ington and Lee juniors: David Olimpio,
Dan Vesay, Todd Bryan, and Pat White.
The band formed in September and
played a coffeehouse in the fall. Vesay,
Bryan, and Olimpio formed the band
last year, and recently added
drummer White.

The four come from a varied musi-
cal background. Olimpio, who plays
piano, came from a musical family.
While he played in the high school
band and picked up piano as a high
school sophomore, he never really took
formal music lessons.

Vesay, the trumpet player, picked
up his instrument in the fourth grade.
He played jazz in high school and is
currently a music major and a member
of the W&L orchestra.

Bryan is also a member of the or-
chestra. He got his start in music when
his mother made him play violin at age
10. He then moved onto the string bass
and now plays the electric and

traditional acoustic jazz and electric
funk fusion. Some of their music is
improvised and most of the electric
stuff is original. Their musical recipe
drew a turnout Saturday night. Audi-
ence members ranged from faculty to
students to the guests of students.

Michelle Richardson, coordinator
of student activities, estimated Fifth
Beat drew between 75 and 100 people.
Richardson likes working with students
because it not only gives them an op-
portunity to showcase their abilities,
but usually their friends turn out to
support them.

As for Fifth Beat, she says, “Dave,
Dan, Todd, and Pat are so easy to work
with. They are funny and easygoing. I
thought they were great.”

Richardson’s job is to schedule al-
ternative events on the weekends. So
far, she has been pleased with turnouts.
She concedes she could probably draw
a larger crowd if alcohol was made
available, but since she was hired to
have alternative events to fraternity
parties she has chosen to make them
non-alcoholic.

“Besides,” she says, “What’s a cof-
feehouse with alcohol? A coffeehouse

h->PUDDING, from pg. 1

pudding wrestling.

“Once [girls] see how much
fun it is, they all want to get in on
the action.”

University Registrar Scott
Dittman will wrestle Robert
Dunlap, assistant Dining Hall
manager.

“I’m always up for a pie in
the face,” Dittman said. He has
not used his Nordic Track in
months and has minimal wres-
tling experience.

“My 5-year-old takes me
down every once in a while,”
Dittman said. Dunlap, however,
wrestled for Lexington High
School.

“I plan on Scott Dittman eat-
ing a lot of pudding,” Dunlap
said. ‘‘I think it’ll be a blast.”

Top prize is a Fancy Dress
weekend package for two. Sec-
ond place wins admission to the
FD concert Thursday night. In
addition to the prizes, another
I beneﬁt is “wrestling in some kind
of food item that you normally

Mr. Williard,
Ms. Alvord, Ms.
Green,

Ms. Wong,
Mr. Odenwald,
and Mr. Coffee
on a first name
basis: Write for
the Phi.

Our staff meetings
are held in Room
208 of the University
Center at 7 p.m. on
Tuesdays. Anyone

The State General Assembly met this week to discuss Gov. George
Allen’s proposed $403 million in budget cuts. Allen also plans to cut
income and business taxes and build prisons. Cities and towns across
Virginia are divided over Allen’s plans, especially those to cut the state’s
$750 million gross receipts tax.

wouldn’t get to wrestle in,” said
Kris Benson of East Coast En-
tertainment, which booked the
show.

What happens to the 1000
pounds of leftover pudding?

upright bass. is supposed to have coffee!”

who has even the
remotest desire to
see their work in

Anyone with computer layout

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled from Phi staff reports ,

skills, or who is willing to
learn computer layout skills,
should apply to

The Ring-tum Phi. Come to
‘University Center Room 108
Tuesdays at 7 p.m.

Dunlap said the dining hall
“probably won’t use the pud-
ding.”

“We usually bring spoons,
pass [them] out, and let the crowd
eat it,” Rosenbaum said. Re-
ally? No. “We dilute it with
water and send it down the
drain.”

Rosenbaum insists that
Chocolate pudding wrestling is
family entertainment.

“It’s not a sleazy show,”
Rosenbaum said. “lt’s good
clean fun.”

Clean?
doubts.

“How will I get home?”

Dittman has his

print. hang around
the office, or just be
a gopher, we would
be glad to have
you as part of our
staff. We'll take
care of the
introductions.

 

C

Q

I

A

  

i  ’
The Ring-tum Phi, January 13,1995 * ’

Crichton shatters traditional
stereotypes of sexual harassment

A NOVEL

.. iJ.S.. $5.99

{E3Bal‘1satine:‘¥iclion£39tGS. G.’-:3’

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Staff Writer

In 1991, the issue of sexual harass-
ment exploded onto the political scene
during Clarence Thomas’ nomination
to the Supreme Court. Anita Hill be-
came the beloved of feminists while
Thomas’ appointment to the highest
court in the nation helped usher record
numbers of women into political of-
fice, including Carol Moseley-Braun,
the ﬁrst black woman senator.

Usually, sexual harassment is seen
as women being victimized by male
employers. But what if a woman sexu-

this is exactly the situation Michael
Crichton describes in his book,Disclo-
sure. Before you see Michael Douglas
and Demi Moore heat up the screen in
the movie version, you might check
out the book.

Thomas Sanders is a divisions man-
ager for Digital Communications Tech-
nology (DigiCom) in Seattle. The com-
pany is in the midst of an acquisition by
which a corporation called Conley-
White. If things go well, Sanders could
end up a million dollars richer. He is
also in line for a promotion, something
he believes he deserves because of his
dedication and hard work over the
past decade.

When he arrives at work, he finds
out that a woman has been named to the
position he wanted. Even worse, this
woman turns out to be his former girl-
friend, Meredith Johnson, and he must
work for her. Although he is disap-
pointed, he decides to make the best
out of the situation and tries to erase the
awkwardness of working for a former
lover. Unfortunately, Johnson has dif-
ferent ideas. »

In a private meeting, Johnson comes
on to Sanders, seeking to rekindle their

ally harasses a male employee? Well, -

sexual relationship. Sanders refuses,

- inciting Johnson’s rage. The next day,

Johnson makes a complete fool out of
Sanders when she changes the approach
for the meeting that they had agreed
upon the night before. She also hits
Sanders with a charge of sexual harass-
ment, making him the victimizer in-
stead of the victim.

As Sanders tries frantically to save
both his job and his marriage, he begins
to discoverthat he is essentially power-
less to an apparent plan to bring him
down. Since Johnson is tied to the
company’s power structure, she inevi-
tably gets the support of the
company while Sanders is left
completely isolated.

While the book is primarily a sus-
pense thriller, Crichton does want to
make a point-——a somewhat valid point
at that. He argues that sexual harass-
ment is about power and exclusively
the domain of men. Women can sexu-
ally harass and will increasingly do so
as they gradually break the glass ceil-
ing of Corporate America. As one char-
acter concludes, “A harassment claim
is a weapon...and there are no good
defenses against it. Anybody can use

the weapon—and lots of good"

people have.”

Whatever your views on sexual ha-
rassment may be,Disclosure is simply
a good book. Crichton constructs a
fast-moving, suspenseful story. With
sparkling dialogue and technological
mumbo-jumbo for those engineering
and computer science majors, the story
moves with force and energy. There is
never a boring moment in the book.
Although the events in the book take
place within a week, Crichton enables
the reader to really know the primary
characters and creates enough intrigue
to satisfy those who love it. Whether
the movie is as good as the book is
something you will have to ﬁnd out by
yourself. But if you are looking for a
book that’s hard to put down, Disclo-
sure qualiﬁes.

PAGE 3

.._ .... ‘_.._;f-'.;:'.r.3;...‘;::;;_;_;,_;_,_,

mm Sr.»-~:_ be

N CA -.u . _.___...._
‘. - ,1 ur..«;.* 1ﬂa.\¢‘. ,-
:'lLCm- ' ‘“ '

a.9—’;.E 7 Lt:  L! 31.‘ 723/ ‘ ,
:t...(_,'-J; glut L’l 2,‘-‘.
q .

 

 

 

lz:-._?>- "rt , H '“ J
's~.'\.‘C. ;: .5. l\lO,5E,

"\r-,l‘:_">"‘."’\ ’\' -. 1 .'_.~,
i v s-24 a E“. El Al\{l\l*:r\:

   
  

     

     

ﬁg . ,-__.n.a  _...  _ . . _. 
crew rm... Aw-. Su-\<r:~:,hc.  i "
Alﬁnfzﬂauwoi

»._-$l'\ =r_ __{:»;-.
\A4\’ nu ( ".V‘;"'\*\

  

Drop Zone combines bad acting, dull dialogue

 
 

skydivers who would be able to pull it off.

Eventually Pete ﬁgures out it was the work of ex-
DEA agent Ty Moncrief (Gary Busey), who plans to use
Leedy’s computer skills and his own skydiving abilities
to break into the DEA’s headquarters and steal the names
of undercover drug agents, which he will then sell to
drug dealers.

Of course, in the end the forces of righteousness win,
and the bad guys are either caught or killed — though a
few of the good guys go down, too.

By KIRK SUSONG
Phi Movie Reviewer

The first thing you will notice if you see this ﬁlm is how
bad the acting is. The promise that Wesley Snipes showed
in NewJack City has completely disappeared, slowly fading
through Demolition Man, Passenger 57, and now Drop
Zone. He is wooden beyond the worst Stallone — no
small feat!

Unfortunately, his fellow actors can do nothing to rescue
him, as their performances are equally mind-numbing.

But no one sees action ﬁlms for the acting, so let’s move
on to the relevant parts.

 

Drop Zone — ‘ﬁn’?

Drop Zone is just another action ﬁlm, but don’t let that
immediately dissuade you. About as good as Under Siege,
it is not in the same class as the greats like Die Hard, The
Crow, or C liﬂhanger, but remains a cut above run-of-the-
mill genre pieces like Bloodsport.

U.S. Marshal Pete Nessip (Wesley Snipes) gets suspi-
cious after terrorists fail to hijack a 747, yet somehow still
manage to escape from the plane. When it turns out that
criminal computer nerd Earl Leedy (Evening Shade’s
Michael Jeter), whom Pete was moving between prisons, is
also missing, the marshal becomes even more convinced the
hijacking failure was actually a carefully planned
mid-air jailbreak.

Unfortunately, his superiors refuse to listen to him, and
Pete is eventually suspended. Nevertheless determined, he
entwines himself in the incestuous world of
daredevil skydivers.

He befriends Jessie Crossman (Yancy Butler) who is one
of the few skydivers in the world capable of pulling off an ‘
in-ﬂight jump from a 747, as the hijackers did.

She turns out to be innocent but knows all the other

Now you an have the molt tecoﬁmud ~

The plot itself is not as transparent as the typical action
film, so we don’t quite have it- all ﬁgured out from the
beginning. That does make it easier to enjoy the action,
which is the real saving grace of Drop Zone.

Snipes can’t match the pure grace and athleticism of Van
Damme. His scenes are also not as well-choreographed as
the Dutchman’s, which often seem almost lyrical, so expres-
sive and smooth.

However, Snipes is just as much fun to watch; he has
more pure power, a certain animal vigor that exudes raw
strength. When he punches someone, you get the same
feeling as when watching a powerful hit in football.

He is able to keep his motions tight, controlled and
extremely forceful.

Combining this draw with the ﬁlm’s real hook, skydiv-
ing, is very appealing. The ﬁlm’s creators were bright
enough to essentially avoid any sort of silly mid-jump ﬁght.
They keep the action on the ground and just use the world of
skydiving to make the ﬁlm more exciting and beautiful.

John Badham’s directing is nothing to write home about,
but it’s competent enough for the ﬁlm. More importantly, he
allows Snipes to take center screen whenever the action gets
intense, so our focus is never distracted from Snipes’ power.

Essentially, the ﬁlm is a lot like every other action film
out there. The acting is atrocious, the dialogue is predict-
able, and the directing is boring.

However, the tension inherent in skydiving, together
with Snipes’ direct, powerful, and enthusiastic action se-
quences, prove to be the ﬁlm’s salvation.

Drop Zone is deﬁnitely not worth a trip to Roanoke, and
it probably shouldn’t be one of your stand-bys should you
arrive too late for the ﬁlm you really wanted to see. How-
ever, if action is your cup of tea, then it is probably a good
bet for the dollar theater in BV or a video rental.

..... .
VI111CZCIIZZ—u::ZZZZC_‘C,!‘,.C

UNI—CARD . BOX 220645 :I'IOLLYHO0Dp FL 33022 ,

fcredlt, cmujn the world even ll-‘YOU ARE NEWIN
CRED|1'orHAVE‘BBl~:N‘lURNED Downasmkt-:1,
” Masu:rCard0 the cndu cant you

deserve and ced l'or— lD—H)OKs-D_EPAR'l'MENT
sr%ru=:s—11JmoN—r-:nrrr-:rm\rNMr-:m-—

® emenoencv (ASH—TDKl-:1S—RESTAURAN'l‘S—

HCITELS-—MOTELS—G\S-CAR RENTALS-
REPAIRS-AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

No tum downs!
' ; No credit checks! .

wﬁﬁtceoﬁf No security deposit!

G“ “';\0‘“‘‘

o SEND THE COUPON TODAY

Youa carzorr CARDS ARE WAITINGI.

100% IIlJIR_Al|TIl_I||~

NAME
ADDRESS   s ,
cm A srA'r1:-_.zrr>___..._
srunam ? Y_e§.__a2. sac

SIGNATURE
uarr.-unuaonmu-ngumaauueuuitduaracuuuunnuuntu-e

uI‘U‘c-an”-oun"u-..U'o

MAIL THIS N0 RISK ( ()l?l’()N 'l”()l)-\Y

   
 

MIXED MEDIA
by Jack Ohman

SHOE

 

WHAT ARE

  
  
  
  
  
 

T:

...\IouN(-a $oLpteR$ DI OFTEN I/I

‘ "IRRECONCILABLE
DIFFERENCES" ?

l
IQ

5!
U1

 

by Jeff MacNelly

   

 

ii
 -. J. 1:: ‘-
SN ’~/'  ’_‘
g  92%
1: $2?)
ufll‘ GNVAN

Aovenrlsiucg (AMPA1eN$
we Dom’ WANT Tb 

Bop. CONSTRICTOR

till‘!
0.‘ 01994 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
MQN All Rights Reserved.

THE
ENERGIZER

  
      

_: \_" -

,~_,_.__

  
 

  

 

ghts Reserved

695 Tribune Media Senires. Inc. All Ri

‘e95 Tribune Media Services. Inc: All Rights Reserved

    

' mouau: is,
its USUALLY A
MAGIC TRICK.

é
 5

 

 

61994 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
All Rights Reserved.

FIRST. THERE
WAS we QJ, EXERCISE

VIDEO.-

NOW Tl-|ERE’S THE

0.). LAWYER
EXERCISE VIDEO

 

futon-rr OWL MUSIC co}

lyzi.tl_1113i§_99_11 

25 S. J efi'ers0n 464-4050

 

i$”1"8ff21}fy"€ iii

ponl

4—_

ilpen 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.

If you don’t stop your friend from driving drunk, who will? Do whatever it takes.

M

FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.

Us Department oi Transportation

.///(12122  .7/3153.3!) /all
r/

Sign up Now for

 

11 S. Jefferson St.

463-9588

  

): ITHINKI 5AW IT
 ON UNSOLVED

  

    

 

   
   

'e95 Tribune Media Servilaes, lrr. All Rights Reserved

 

BE A RED CROSS VOLUNTEER

ﬂaﬂ

Counselors for resident‘ ummer program at UVA for
§/jfwg gmd ts. _ ncl _ 995. State of
‘W 'e;."sras° ""5: .:*.:;'°5:;*r.:*;°
w c . -

 u'”y°~'°°5l“°‘l3’5~;92 r,-.~"£’.it.::.2h..1t.i2.9:.—

~ r 1 1 ,

Rlejgou ‘cs"'V°1'3't§‘:’nm'ezgs::ec:pPo Box 9007,
Charlottcsv , VA 22906. For information about the

0 August

Wanted!!! Individuals, Student Organizations and
Small Groups to Promote SPRING BREAK ’95
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS

INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS

1-800-327-6013

application process, call (804) 924-3182. EEO/AA.

Have you made a

New Year’s

for better fitness ?

 We’ll help you keep it!

FEATURING
ALL NEW
STATE OF .

  * CB3ﬁ1(:1;ovascular
 Free Weights

* Stair Steppers ‘A’ Showers

~k Tread Mills

Nutrition

Program

GET

$75°° orr
voun

January 15th!

OEGA

FITNESS CENTER

Summit Square, Lexington 464-9060
(Across From DM V)

HOURS: 6 A.M. - 9 P.M. Monday - Friday
9 A.M. - 5 P.M. Saturday; 12 Noon - 5 P.M. Sunday

“BE YOUR BEST”

New Year’s resolution

‘I: Weight Machines ‘Av Fitness Trainers

at TV * Playroom
at Weight Loss &

JOIN NOW AND

ENROLLMENT!

   
 

  

lilizt-Mitt 
Eiitttttltrrti Ciﬁrr Arr. 

 

Travel Unlimited
463-7174

 

 

Open Mon.-:*Sat.=. :8:3&‘a.m.a,-=6‘.p.m. Sun.  5 

    

    
   

Valley V
2 ,~.;  —~7’$4A80wK§E:storiiés”"‘  ' '1 I
Hardwar.e;13ainL  

4'63=2186‘l

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

E. Nelson St.,Lex1n_‘2_ton _ p _

 

Sweatshirts Now In Stock!

Reverse Weave, Classic 8: Basic Training

- Traditional Grey
-Navy
IIEH - Forest Green
 NEH -Wheat
IIEII -Cardinal

Mail Order

15 W. Washington St.
' 1-800-474-0056

464-3000

Kel|y’s Corner

On Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington

"The tradition continues”

Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea.,
delicious BBQ sandwiches $1.39
7-Up, A&W root beer, RC, cream soda-
3 cans / $1.00
Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .069/gal.
Unleaded Plus - $1 .129/gal.

Natural Light
$4.29/12 pack - $8.50/case
40 lb. ice - $4.99

CHECK FOR OUR DAILY PRICES
As Always, We Provide The Best
Service For The W&L Community

Open 7 Days 463-5452 Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

   

 

   

  
 

     
 

    

PAGE 8

@112 iﬁing-tum Iﬁlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Rhetorical questions...

We have many, many rhetorical questions which pop into
our heads at this time of the year, and we will give them to you,
our readers: perhaps you will come up with some answers for
them. If so, give us a call.

Why is it that women take more time to prepare for
impressing other women than for men? (If you don’t believe
us, the smell of the perfume is probably still lingering through-
out the University Center. Sniff for yourself.)

How much money is wasted in crepe paper in the United
States every year? Is it recycled? Maybe this is the problem
with the landfills.

Why is it that we are perenially number three in the
Princeton Review’s hard liquor rankings? What does it take
to unseat number one?

Why does it matter which despressive pyschological dis-
ease one has? If you have one, and are too paranoid to go to
a counselor in fear of what he or she might tell you, what then?

What is the point of parties anyway? Is it the drinking? Is
it the hook-ups? Would we be okay without them? Do we
really have fun when we are too upset to talk about what we
did the next day?

What are New Year’s resolutions? What is the point if they
only last for a year?

Is something, for which one has to develop a taste, really
good once one develops the taste, or are we just fooling
ourselves?

Why do people find musicians so fascinating? We all know
that traditionally fantasically popular musicians are rather
depraved, so why is it that we are drawn to these types of
people?

We are not really clinically insane at the Phi, just rather
confused. If you have some answers to our questions, please
write or call. We will be grateful.

“What room is the Rho Chi sorority in?”

-- A male photographer for one of
the campus newspapers, addressing a nicely-
nametagged sorority rush counselor

“I didn’t know W&L was that ethnic!”

-- A Virginia Military Institute
Keydet after being told some 90% of W&L men
are Greek

with serum

X05315...

The Ring-tum Phi, January 7, 1994

umr tr" smut BE...

‘Equality’ myth threatens America

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

This column is Part Two in a series
on the many virtues of
Western Civilization.

Last time, if you recall, we con-
cluded that civilization is built on three
elements: learning, charity, and order.
It was promised you, furthermore, that
in this week’s column I would unfold
the greatest mystery of all: where our
civilization stands by these criteria.
That is, are we in America civilized? If
we are, is anyone more so, or has any-
one ever been more so?The expedient
answer, and the one that will keep me
safe in the streets, is that America is the
most wonderful thing since sliced
bread, and that surely no higher level of
civilization has ever been achieved than
that practiced in modern-day Cleve-
land. I, in refuting this idea, must of
course ﬁnd fault with America on the
basis of one of the three criteria I pro-
posed earlier. And so I shall.

I wish to make it clear at the outset
that, while I may define what is essen-
tially ‘American’ differently from oth-
ers, I remain very much a patriot. That
said, it is in the arena of public and
social order, not surprisingly, that I
shall find fault with the United States.

One of the principal purposes of a
social order is to be stable. No form of
respectable civilization can long sur-
vive under conditions of basic instabil-
ity. I would have to admit that, rela-
tively speaking, things have gone quite
well in America thus far in this respect.
It has become almost trite in recent
years to observe that cracks have be-

gun to appear in the American social
fabric, but this is undeniably the case.
We in the conservative community
commonly like to reduce this trend to
rock music and feminism, but the more
inherent threat to America comes, para-
doxically, from what has usually been
seen as its strength: its founding prin-
ciples. I mean the principle of human
equality in particular.

Equality, we must understand, is an
ideal state. Hierarchy and inequality
are actual states. Even in America some
people rule and some do not. Some are
rich, and some are poor. Put yourself in
the position of those poor downtrod-
den sods that exist in our country no
less than in any other. What are they

Even if we concede that the down-
trodden in America have as much op-
portunity to change their lot as the
lower orders of society do anywhere
else, we must still face the fact that the
majority of poor people were born
poor and they will die poor. So with
what comforting world view do we
arm the poor that they may meet their
fate with dignity(or at least sanity)?
Equality. We announce that all men are
created equal. The response that can-
not help but jump into the minds of the
poor is, of course, “then why are we so
much less equal than you?”

There are only a few possible an-
swers. One is that the poor are innately
inferior, and that they deserve to be in

offered exactly the
in the position
United ""“—‘j'  ‘T they are in.
States to This an-
soothe   .-bec0me a.lm03.t swer is in-
t h e i r trite in recent years to ob- herent1y1i)rl1-
natural _ compati e
e n V y ._, serve that cracks have be with the
For one gun to appear in the idea that all
:1? i 0 are, American social fabric,  tit:
W b tth" de ‘bl th
offered u ls ls un nla y e equal. An-
‘gquality case. We in the conserva- o_tbI1ler wis-
o oppor- - - _ Sl eexp a-
tunity’. tlve c°,mm“"‘ty . con!’ nation for
M a n y monly like to reduce this the exist-
P 0 0 I trend to rock music and W‘ 9‘
people, . . poverty IS
though, femlnl3m- that the
aresmart poor have
enough been op-
to realize pressed and

that there are profound limits to the
extent to which this seemingly laud-
able ideal has been translated into real-
ity. There is such a thing as privilege,
after all, and no amount of ideological
declamation on the Fourth of July can
change this.

deprived of a fair chance at life’s re-
wards. This tack is consistent with the
idea of human equality, but is other-
wise rather unappealing for the obvi-
ous reason that those of us who are
placed a tick above the ‘average’ mark
do not enjoy the prospect of being

leveled. Finally, one popular idea is
that the rich, though having begun equal
to the poor, have simply worked harder
and thus achieved more‘. But this does
not square with equality either, since
the rich man would either have to have
been born an innately hard worker (im-
possible) or he must have learned his
hard-workingness from his
hardworking forebears (constituting an
unfair advantage).

The point of all this is that, as far as
I can see, the poor do not have any good
reason to accept their position in Ameri-
can society. They are told that they are
fundamentally equal, but their reality
does not conform to this idea. The
results of this problem are readily seen.
The poor in America have been wait-
ing for the day when they will get what
they think they have coming to them,
and what most of them will never have
- equality. In the meantime they feel
justified in causing disorder and in
disobeying the laws and mores of an
‘unjust’ society. The collapse of order
in the underclass threatens American
society as a whole.

It may be seen that the doctrine of
equality, which is being taken more
and more seriously in America all the
time (it has always been touted, but
seldom taken to its present extreme), is
inimical to social stability, particularly
to the stability of any kind of class
system, and must therefore be taken as
contrary to the spirit of civilized life.
What it should be replaced by, and
what society should serve as the model
for a new form of social organization,
will be made clear in Part Three.

Not surprisingly, our model soci-
ety with respect to Social Order is also
our model of civilization in general.
What society, past or present, will make
the grade? In two weeks you shall
finally know...

@112 Tiling-htm lﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bunny Wong

Assistant Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Dan Odenwald

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

Republicans need to rethink Contract

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

 

It’s a new year and there is a new group in charge
of Congress. Last week, the media was full of stories
about the new Republican majority and their plans to
fulﬁll their their “Contract With/On America”. In
the background, beyond all the pomp and circum-
stance and the almost all nighter they pulled on the
first day of the new session are some questions posed
by, among others, the Democrats in Congress and
Constitutional scholars.

The House passed a rule change requiring that a
3/5 majority be required to raise income taxes. This
brings up the Constitutional question. Scholars
argued that the Constitution set forth speciﬁc mea-
sures that required more than a simple majority vote.
These measures include impeaching the President
and overturning a veto. The Republicans argued that
there was nothing expressly forbidding such a rule
change, and that it had been done before. It has, in
cases such as the requirement for a 2/3 vote to break
a filibuster in the Senate. In those cases, however,
these super-majority votes apply to all subjects, not
to a speciﬁc action or a speciﬁc area of domestic
policy. Why won’t a 2/3 vote be required to lower
income tax, since that affects the country as much as
an increase does? Perhaps a tax cut affects the
country more, because revenue is decreased.

There is also the question of the Balanced Budget
Amendment. It is unquestionably a broadly sup-
ported move among a diverse group of people. But
what will the effects be of such a move? It was
pointed out in a recent commentary on National
Public Radio that under provisions of the bill, if
revenue drops, for example during a massive period
of unemployment, spending must necessarily be cut.
A better move might be to pour money into the
economy, perhaps running a small deﬁcit, but stimu-

lating economic growth and recovery.

The Democrats have challenged the Republicans
to publicly announce what they plan to cut. It
obviously won’t be defense, since the Republican
majority seems to think that our defense is being cut
so drastically that England could take us over as a
colony again (I think that with all the NRA members
with semi-automatic weapons, we would have
them outgunned).

Speaking of England and the colonies, the Re-
publican majority
seems to be following
in the footsteps of King
Georgelll. They have
taken away the voting

cc———-

sary but unpopular with the voters.

If the federal government is going to take some of
the pressure off the states, perhaps the states should
take some of the pressure off the federal govemment-
by stocking up on private ﬂood or disaster insurance,
for example, so that every time an inevitable natural
disaster occurs, they don’t go running to the federal
government for relief.

There are many, many things that will happen this
year. Resolution of the term limits question, welfare
reforms; the beginning
of what is sure to be a
never-ending debate
on school prayer, et
cetera. Then there is

rights of the District of the question of what
Columbiaandtheother willha ntoS ker
. . If the federal govern- 99° P“
terrrtones. The other _ _ Newt (as Rush
territories can’t really ment l8 going t0 take 807713 Limbaugh calls him
complain, since their ‘notanameﬁlledwith
residents don’thave to of the pressure off the dignity,he sounds like
pay federal taxes, but states: perhaps the states acartoon character’)-

District residents do.
Does Newt, the history

should take some of the

will he succeed in
pushing his “Con-

professor, remember pressure Off the tract”, or will the
the cry during the federal government. slower and steadier
American Revolution I Senate block his ef-
of “No taxation with- fort toward greatness?
out representation”? George Will brought
The Republicans upanotherstandardby

should either ease the burden of taxes from the
District or give its half a million voters a voice in
Congress.There are other goals of the Republican
majority that appear reasonable, such as not giving
the states unfunded mandates. As a Floridian I see
the logic in this statement. After all, Florida is
spending money on all the immigrants coming in
without any additional revenue from the federal
government. There is another side to this however. It
is these mandates that allow so much to be accom-
plished, including integration of the schools, pro-
tecting the rights of the disabled, and preserving the
environment. It also gives the governors something
to hide behind, and keeps away the wrath of the
people when he or she does something that is neces-

which to judge the Republican majority, the reap-
pearance of bowling leagues. Will the Republican
party fulﬁll its goal of reestablishing community in
America? Will suggests the success can be gauged in
by the growth of voluntary associations not interest
groups, but the gathering of people who have a
mutual interest and enjoy each other’s company. If
the Republicans achieve this, then they will have
done a wonderful job.

It’s only the second week of the new era and too
early to predict success or failure. As the main
character of one of last year’s most popular movies
said, “Life is like a box of chocolates, you never what
you’re going to get.” The Republican majority is like
that; who knows what will come out of anything?

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 13, 1995

OPINION "““—

Keep your Christmas with you

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

l’ve decided that even though it’s
not especially timely, I’m going to
write about my Christmas. For one
thing, my writing about it now goes in
the spirit of a song from Christmas Eve
on Sesame Street called “Keep Christ-
mas With You.” (Pretend I’m singing
now.) “When Christmas is over, save
some Christmas cheer!” (Okay, you
can stop pretending now.) Besides, I
can write about whatever I want. If you
have a problem with it, get your own
humor column! Wow, that felt really
good. Okay, on to the spirit of peace on
Earth and all of that good stuff.

My brother (“The Boy”) announced
once that from Thanksgiving on, our
lives are ruled by tra-
dition. The festivities
kicked off with The

Boy checks his watch and we race out
of my mom’s car while humming the
theme song to Mission Impossible. We
have already had the whole
“Howdoesthistreelookokayﬁnelet’sbuyit”
conversation by the time Ray Pruit
lopes over to ask us if he can help us.
Mom demands to know the price of the
tree and is ﬁlling it in on hercheck (pre-
dated and signed, of course) as The
Boy and I race to the hatchback of her
car and stuff the tree in. This year, the
tree was bought, paid for, and in the car
in one minute and eighteen seconds, a
new record.

The holiday merriment continued
for me because I got to work at the mall.
Yay! Mycareer in the exciting world of
French fashion (i.e. sales associate at
Express) never fails to provide joy.
Well, at least the Christmas music this
year didn’t have lines like “Yo, I aint

CC

Flashback: Christmas Eve, 1993
(that’s last year, kids). Betsy is being
her cute little Mall Chick self again,
and it’s just a few minutes before close.
Uncharacteristically I (I’m switching
my punto de vista, Professor Boetch)
was eager to get home to my family. A
man came in to buy a present for his
wife and was taking his sweet time,
oblivious to the fact that we all kept
looking at our watches. I finally got
him to choose something, hurried him
to the cash register, and rang him up. I
was getting ready to start folding clothes
so I could go home when he came up
behind me and asked if I had remem-
bered to give him his change. It was
about seventy-eight cents. I remember
that, but I didn’t remember if I had
given him his change. I was honest
with him and told him that I didn’t
know. Damned honor code. I told my
manager the deal and
she forced a smile and
offered to count all of

Boy’s birthday. Ever
since my mom was a
little girl, the tradition
with our family has
been that if you talk
between the time you
blow out your candles
and the time you take
your first bite of cake,
yourwishwon’tcome
true. We always try to

We decided to one day tell our little
children "that Santa dropped an elf
down the chimney before taking the
plunge himself Its like testing the
griddle with drops of water when
you’re making pancakes;
dance, its hot. I can’t wait to give my

get the birthday per kids nightmares with
son to mess up and l. l . .
talk.Cometothinkof ltt e tl lt°

it, that’s pretty mean.
Oh, well. This year to
torture The Boy I put
a dab of shaving
cream on his cake in lieu of ice cream.
His friend Jeff decided that it would be
even more fun to put the shaving cream
(lime scented, of course) in his hair as
well. Others got into the fun by coating
his head with chocolate syrup, ketchup,
oatmeal, and chopped nuts. He looked
like the Ponderosa sundae bar gone
awry, but at least his hair wasn’t as bad
as Richard Weaver’s.

Another fine family tradition is the
purchase of our Christmas tree. None
of us really feels that a great amount of
time is needed to pick out silly things
like Christmas trees or wallpaper.
Hence, we wait until the coldest day of
the year in order to expedite the pro-
cess. While all of the perfect families
are looking at all of the trees from all of
the angles, we move a bit faster. The

 

dissin’ you but wishin’ you a very
merry Christmas.” Our holiday contest
this year was to wait on as many men as
possible, because they tend to be very
gullible. “But if you don’t buy her
earrings, a turtleneck, and three pairs
of socks, she won’t love you anymore I ”
sounds completely plausible to them.
There was one man that I regretted
waiting on. It was Christmas Eve. I was
being my cute little Mall Chick self in
a red sweater and Santa hat and I of-
fered my services as a fashion consult-
ant toaman who waswandering around
the store in confusion. I was helping
him choose a blouse to go under the
blazer he found (because she wouldn’t
love him anymore if he didn’t buy her
one) when I realized why he
seemed familiar.

if they

the money in the reg-
isterto compare it with
the amount it should
be, blah, blah, blah. He
actually wanted his
seventy-eight cents so
much that he was
happy to wait on
Christmas Eve for us -
to count his lousy
money. Do you all
detect bitterness?
Anyway, as you as-
tute readers must have
guessed, this was the
same guy.

Flashback ends.
We return to 1994.
Luckily the whole ordeal wasn’t as bad
this year. I only had to call the credit
card company to conﬁrm that the guy
was legit. To be honest, I kind of en-
joyed it.

Christmas Eve proved to be inter-
esting this year because my mom de-
cided to add drinking to the usual fam-
ily festivities. We sat in front of the fire
and roasted hot dogs (a staple of any
holiday meal) and drank wine. We also
ate a big jar of maraschino cherries
soaked in cherry brandy. I highly rec-
ommend it. I did my usual trick of tying
the stems of the cherries into knots
with my tongue. My mom found it a bit
disconcerting, but took it pretty well.
We then had some Forced Family To-
gethemess by playing the game Out-
burst. At one point, The Boy and I had

that

Executive Comm

To the editor:

The Executive Committee has recently re-.
ceived queries regarding what implications
sneaking into a beer garden at a university
sponsored event may have for. the

Honor System.

While it is not customary for the Executive
Committee to respond to hypothetical inquiries
regarding potential Honor Violations, the Com-
mittee will, on occasion, comment on certain
issues where some confusion may exist.

Students under the ageof 21 should be
advised that sneaking into a beer garden at a
university sponsored event may be considered

an Honor Violation.

LETTERS

ittee addresses Honor ramifications of be

consequences of the described actions in light
of the mandate of the Honor System. The
Committee maintains its policy of not develop-

By this letter, the Executive Committee
merely seeks to have students consider the

to name ten Beach Boys songs. We
came up with all of them in about four
seconds (almost enough time to buy a
tree) and were even able to sing all of
them. That’s some useless knowledge
coming into play. I was pretty pleased,
but I then realized that these were clearly
some brain cells that needed to die. I ate
some more cherries.

Has anyone else ever wondered what
Santa would do if the coals in the
fireplace were too hot when he came
down the chimney? I used to worry
about that a lot and confided my fear in
my family. We decided to one day tell
our little children that Santa dropped
an elf down the chimney before taking
the plunge himself. It’s like testing the
griddle with drops of water when you’re
making pancakes; if they dance, it’s
hot. I can’t wait to give my kids night-
mares with that little tidbit.

Ah, Christmas Day. Childlike de-
light gave way to laziness-—Mom, The
Boy and I slept until almost eleven.
Still, the gifts were worth waiting for.
Mom got the white television she
wanted, to match the white kitchen.
The Boy got a box of instant oatmeal.
I got a pair of gray sweat pants...what’s
wrong with this picture? Of course we
were all anxious to get to our stocking
stuffers. When I was about ten my
mother stopped giving me cool stuff
like stickers and started giving me oven
cleaner and prune juice. How
amusing...actually it has been since we
started getting back at her for that. One
year on Christmas Eve I found myself
in Walgreen’s buying J heri curl, a ro-
mance novel, a Mallo Cup, and a pack-
age of condoms. The cashier looked at
me funny and I just smiled at her,
looked her in the eye, and said, “Stock- '
ing stuffers.”

I look forward to Christmas dinner
every year. Who wants something dull
like turkey, ham, or roast beef when
you can have a nice succulent meatloaf?
I LOVE meatloaf. And we make it
special for the holidays. It’s shaped
like a Christmas tree (which of course
doesn’t take long to make, since speed
is optimal when Christmas trees are
involved) and is decorated with red and
green peppers shaped like ornaments
and a cheese angel. Finally, the tree is
gaily festooned with garlands
of ketchup.

Shaving cream. Selling clothes.
Alcohol soaked cherries. Gray sweats.
Condoms. Meatloaf. What more could
you want?

PAGE 6

 

Habitat

Habitat for Humanity is ready to
start building its first house. Please
come to the first Habitat meeting of
95 on Tuesday January 17 at 5:00 in
the Commerce Schoool room 221.

Republicans

The College Republicans will
be holdinga meetingTuesday, -Ian“-
ary 17, at 6:30 in Fairax Lounge.
All members are strongly encour-
aged to attend.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce its
next presentation, Belle Epoque
(Spain, 1993) by Fernando Trueba.
Screenings will be at 8:05 p.m. Fri-
day, January 13, and Saturday, Janu-
ary 14, in the Troubadour Cinema,
at the comer of Main and Henry
Streets. As usual, there is no charge
for admission. The film is in Span-
ish, with English subtitles.

Rape

What can we do about rape and
sexual assault? Find out at a discus-
sion with Women’s Forum and
R.A.C.A.S.A members. Solutions
to rape and sexual assault will be
discussed in the Arlington Women’s
Center on Sunday, January 15, at
6:00. Gourmet Coffee will
be served.

Coffee House

Student Activities and the Soci-
ety for the Arts present Brian Boland
and Tommy Esposito on Friday,
January 13, at9:00 p.m. in the GHQ.
Admission is free.

GENERAL

NOTES

Free Dance Lesson

In preparation for FD, ballroom
dance lessons will be offered on
campus. The first of these lessons
will be free to all W&L students.
All students who might be inter-
ested in learning the Fox Trot,
Rhumba, Waltz, Jitterbug, Tango,
and Cha-Cha are invited (with or
without a partner) to Fairfax Lounge
on January 24, for a free prelimi-
nary lesson. The lessons will last
one half hour, and will begin on the
hour and half-hour from
6:00 to 9:00.

FD Workers

There will be a meeting for
Fancy Dress contract workers at
7:00 on Wednesday, January 18, in
C-School room 221. If you'd like to
earn free FD ticket, you should at-
tend this meeting

Washington Term

Students interested in the Spring
Washington Term program should
turn in their applications to C-School
Room 108 by Saturday, January 14.
Applications are available as late as
January 13.

Bicycles

Freshman bicycles left in the
laundry room and and others left
around campus are in the Security
Office. Please come get them.

Loans

In a bind and need cash fast?
Call the Student Emergency Loan
Committeeforhelp.Wewillreveiw
your case and hand you a check.
Call Paul Wright at 463-4360.

ing an inclusive or exclusive code of

honorable conduct.
Questions regarding this or any other matter

er garden

concerning the Honor System may be addressed
to any member of the Executive Committee.

Thank you.

Kevin S. Webb
President, Executive Committee

New prescription plan unfair to providers and employees

T6 the editor:

I would like to address the W&L
faculty and staff:

Recently, the administration of
Washington and Lee University imple-
mented a new employee prescription
plan. This plan affects the health and
well-being (both physical and eco-
nomic) of over 800+ people and their
families.

In my capacity as pharmacist/owner
of Bierer’s Pharmacy in Lexington, I
have had the privilege of serving many

of you over the last twenty years. I
have always set fair prices and gone the
extra mile to help you through your
medical emergencies and to answer
your health care questions.

Our relationship has been based
upon mutual trust and respect. But
now our relationship is in
serious jeopardy.

As a result of the prescription plan
change, I am compelled to withdraw
from participating in the MAINTE-
NANCE portion of the plan. I was
given no choice. I was asked to accept

a pricing plan where I would either lose
money or, unbelievably, charge too
much — OR drop out of participating
in the plan. As a consequence, you no
longer have the freedom to choose
Bierer’s Pharmacy for your long—term
prescriptions. We both lose!

As an independent pharmacy owner,
I have neither the ability or desire to
compete in the pharmaceutical “price
war” now underway across our nation.

It is this “war” which I feel has
precipitated this prescription plan
change. It is an ominous trend, riddled

Interviews and Photos
By Darcey Livingston

Chris Buford ’96, Richmond,
Va. — “Pi Phi because my
girlfriend’s one.”

TALKBACK

 

with cost shifting and predatory pric-
ing schedules. As a result, I am voicing
my concerns, and hoping that you
will too.

Normally, unless your physician
says you require the use of a particular
brand name, the generic is the best buy.
As a result, generics have become very
popular with budget conscious indi-
viduals. I encourage all of my patients
to consider their use
whenever possible.

If I were to participate in the main-
tenance portion of this new prescrip-

tion plan and you wanted the generic, I
would be asked to overcharge you! If
you wanted the brand name (which is
true about half the time), I would be
guaranteed to lose money!

How can this new plan be consid-
ered reasonable or equitable? It isn’t.
Not to you or to me. Any health care
plan which unfairly shifts the burden of
cost to one particular provider by dic-
tating low fees is a ﬂawed plan. Any
health care plan which asks you, the
employee, to share the cost of the policy
premium but denies you the choice of

x

your provider is a ﬂawed plan. Let
your employer know that there has to
be a better way to do business here in
Rockbridge County. A spirit of fair
play should prevail — not the bottom
line of an impersonal manufacturer or
a detached consultant who does not
live or work here.

I thank you for your kind attention,
and welcome the opportunity to an-
swer any of your questions.

Andy Johnson
Phanriacist/Owner, Bierer’s Pharmacy

If you could be in any sorority, which
one would it be, and Why?

Greg Chow_ ’98, Wyomissing,
Penn. — “Chi-O. I just like to say
it.”

J.T. Poole ’97, Bamwell, S.C. -
“I guess I wouldn’t rush because

I’ve really always wanted to be a
Tri-Delt.” -

Tyson Hilton ’96, Huntington
Beach, Calif‘. — “I’d be a Xi Pi Xi
’cause they know how to drink.”

 

Justin Brady ’95, Goshen, N.Y.
— “None. I never was one for
singing songs and giving out
candy.”

Jay White ’96, Forest, Va. —
“Chi-O, because I’m a really jolly
person and I like to ‘spend time’
with others.”

 

 

R

Z

I

I

  

    

The Ring-tum Phi, January 13, 1995   PAGE 7
K \
  THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES
MEANS LOW PRICES! goA|2D
CeI.e'i)§artI"I‘1'-gSthe':‘eC?ni1.iﬁ§I'O?i‘$?f'r!t‘1¥ Iigﬁzgils Z   ‘
Harris Teeter “
Sweet Peas, CHOCOLATE
Corn or
Green Beans 
H 8 9 WEDNESDAY. JANUAPY I8. 8PM-IIPM
14.50-15.25 02. SW“ °°PE””S “Y”
 Harris Teeter ADMISSION‘ WEE
I/I Iieed 
- ss PACKAGE
Bacon K ’,
 F] GJHT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS!

    
   
  
 

   
 
  

  &sPOI33  I

  
    

..“§gP°9*¢’4.;"‘*'.9- *¥?“’“5*%¥*?¥*°‘*?%g5 1
\MI\\\\ Heavier. 0* L   9

 

Selected Varieties ’  

I ' 4. I'D MAIM THUMPER FOR A NEW RUG
' S. I'D KILL FLIPPER FOR A TUNA SANDWICH

1. ’D VIAKE A SPUIT ED OWL HOMELESS
FOR A NEW HOUSE

2. I'D MAKE MARY JOBLESS FOR A PLATE OF
LAMBCHOPS

3. I’D IMPRISON WILLY FOR AN
AFTERNOON’S ENTERTAINMENT

Harris Teeter
Gram
Bread _24 oz. I

 

Harris Teeter
ice Cream 1/2 gal.

Harris Teeter
Hot C_ocoa
MIX

 
  
  

      

Pebsi or Diet

Pepsi

...89

Harris Teeter Cranberry

Cocktail Juice

199

Unwer

WASHINGTON DC

Selected
Varieties
39
64 oz. 12 Pk. 12 oz. cans ............ 

Harris Teeter Harris Teeter 4 Pk.
Snack Bath

Crackers . . . . .16 oz.1 Tissue. . .157.5o ft. I

Harris Teeter F Harris Teeter 
0ra_nge con.!;’,7i.are Peanut °5‘:3;"!,3’
Juice ......... ..64oz.l Butter ............ ..18 oz.

Prices Effective Through Jan. 1 7, 1995

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, January 11 Through January 17. 1995 In Our A
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

~ Send check or .0. size L or XL
Jebco Oo1lI)ecti les ’
_ , IL 82

T-Shirts 16.00
Posters 10,00
Bum r Stickers 2.50
Cata og Free

GW is an equal opportunity institution, '

-Iv

 

  

This Week:

Sw1MMINc- (M&W) Catholic
BAsiu:'rnAu.-(W) Lynchburg

WRESTL[NG- W&L Quadrangular

INDOOR TRACK- at Lynchburg Invitational

K Last Week:

BASK‘.E'I'BALL' (M) Va. Wes. 95 W&L 73; W&L 85
Roanoke 65; W&L 126 MWC 121; W&L 82
L'burg 75
(W) G’ford 81 W&L 52; Va. W. 68 W&L
57; W&L 52 Hollins 38; Bwtr 57 W&L 53
SWIMMING-(M) W&L 113 Buffalo St. 58
L (W) W&L 111 Buffalo St. 53

Elite iking-tum 1311?

  SPORTS

PAGE 8

4g

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

The past week has been a ban-
ner week for the men’s basket-
ball team. The Generals posted
three straight wins over Roanoke,
Mary Washington, and
Lynchburg, improving to 6-5
overall (3-3 in the ODAC) and
providing plenty of ﬁreworks and
hope for Generals’ fans along the
way.

It began Saturday night in the
Warner Center as the Generals
faced defending ODAC cham-
pion Roanoke, and things looked
grim early as Roanoke began the
game with a 1 1-2 burst.

But the Generals responded
with seven unanswered and then
took the lead for good with 6:39
left in the first half, 28-26, off a
jumper from junior Derek Carter,
who led the Generals with 22
points and 12 rebounds. The Gen-
erals never looked back, closing
the half with a 11-4 run for their
43-34 halftime lead and scoring
the ﬁnal 11 points of the game to

post the 85-65 victory. Junior
Jon Coffman added 16 points,
and Mark Oonnelly contributed a
14 point, 11 rebound effort.

Senior Tyler Duvall also tal-
lied 10 points and nine assists in
the win.

Next up was a non-confer-
ence game against Mary Wash-
ington Monday, a game which
few looked to as a milestone. Yet
after 45 minutes of basketball,
six school and two NCAA Divi-
sion lll records had been tied or
broken, leaving the arena shell-

shocked.

The 126-121 OT win set the
W&L record for most points

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

Men’s basketball reels off three straight; goes over .500

given up and tied the record for
most points scored, reaching a
single-game total last equalled in
1954.

The 51 points in OT broke the
NCAA Division III record for
most points in OT by both teams,
and W&L set the single-team
record with an astonishing 28 of
those points in the ﬁve minute
extra frame.

Both Mary Washington-’s 18
three-pointers and the W&L’s 52
free-throw attempts set school
records, and junior Jon Coffman
set a school record with 22 free-
throw attempts, sinking 18 to tie
yet another mark.

MWC jumped out to an early
9-4 lead and held it for most of
the ﬁrst half, until a three from
sophomore Matt Clark put the
Generals ahead 36-34 after a MW
time-out, leading toa 52-45 W&L
lead at halftime.

MWC tightened the game in
the second half, pulling ahead
91-88 with 1:55 left after a 13-5
run. But Clark banked in a three
and added a foul shot for a rare
four-point play to give the Gen-
erals a 92-91 lead. Things looked
grim as the Eagles of MWC ral-
lied for a 98-95 lead with just 14
seconds left, but freshman Jimmy
Schweer saved the day with 0:04
left on a long-distance connec-
tion that sent the game into OT at
98-98.

The first half of OT remained
tight, but the Generals reeled off
a 10-0 run to go ahead 116-107
with 1:10 to play. Mary Wash-
ington closed to a three-point
deﬁcit with 0:21 to go, but clutch
5-6 foul shooting clinched the
five-point triumph, part of the

Generals’ astounding 19-23 from
the foul line in OT.

Coach Verne Canﬁeld dis-
missed the excitement after the
game, saying, “I’m not interested
in setting records trying to
outscore people. It’s a win and
l’ll take it, but I thought the
Roanoke game was a much bet-
ter all-around team effort.”

When asked if there was ever
a time that he just sat back and
shook his head at the scene,
Canﬁeld explained the danger of
such a wild affair,

“You can get mesmerized by
a game like that where a team is
shooting so many 3-point shots.
It begins to affect your defense,
and that’s what I was concerned
with.”

The Generals finished the
week with a 82-75 victory over
ODAC rival Lynchburg, behind
20 points from Jon Coffman.

Lynchburg led 37-35 at the
half and took a 51-42 lead almost
midway through the second half,
but W&L’s defense stepped up
to hold the Hornets scoreless for
more than seven minutes, and
junior Cam Dyer provided the
late offensive punch, scoring nine
of his 16 points in the ﬁnal ﬁve
minutes, leading an 8-0 Gener-
als’ run that put the game away.

Looking ahead, the Generals
travel to Randolph-Macon on
Sunday. Coach Canﬁeld cited a
continuing need to refocus the
defense but struck an optimistic
chord, saying, “The guys are do-
ing some of the little things that
every coach likes —- playing to-
gether, making the extra pass,
playing hard. We’re making some
inroads in those intangibles that
we’ve needed in the past. It’s
difﬁcult for the every-day fan to
see, but it’s going to pay off for
us down the road.”

this weekend.

Following a weekend that saw the W&L wrestling team unable to
compete at Messiah due to bad weather, the Generals prepare to take
on York, Messiah, and Pensacola Christian in the W&L Quadrangular

File Photo

After defeating Buffalo State easily, the men are also getting ready to race
Catholic this weekend. Despite the loss of Steve Brigance to abroken hand,
the Generals expect to swim well.

File Photo

Following three straight wins,
rival Roanoke, and an amazing ove

..,v;% Q?

JANUARY 13, 1995

   

Generals have surged to a 6-5 mark.

Lady Generals fall to
Guilford; beat Hollins

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington & Lee
women’s basketball team began
a four game homestand with a
tough loss against Bridgewater
College at the Warner Center.

The Eagles prevailed 57-53
in an Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference game that was not de-
cided until the ﬁnal minute of
play.

The Generals fall to 4-7 over-
all with the loss, 3-5 in the ODAC.
The defeat came on the heals of a
win at Hollins that snapped a
W&L three game losing streak.

Junior co-captain Sandra
Holmes had a strong game with
16 points and 11 rebounds while
shooting 8-12 from the ﬁeld.

The Generals as a whole shot
only 38 percent for the game,
failing to overcome a second half
28 percent shooting effort by the
Eagles.

Despite a narrow three point
lead at intermission, Bridgewater
(6-5, 5-2 ODAC) established a
42-34 advantage six minutes into
the second half when Cindy
Pearson (16 points) drained a
three-pointer. It was the Eagles

biggest margin of the contest.

Following a W&L timeout,
the Generals used four different
players to score, tying the game
at 42 with less than eight minutes
to play.

The teams exchanged baskets
until Sandra Holmes scored from
underneath for a W&L 48-46
edge. Unfortunately, it would be
W&L’s final lead of the game.

In the last 90 seconds of play,
Jennifer Hedrick netted a score
and Bridgewater converted two
free throws to take a 55-52 lead
en route to the victory.

The win was the 465th career
win for Eagle head coach Laura
Mapp, the nation’s second
winningest active coach.

The Generals never-die atti-
tude was evident throughout the
game. In the first half, W&L
trailed at times by four, ﬁve and
seven, yet always answered with

a run to pull back into the game.

Down 31-24 with 38 seconds
left until halftime, junior co-cap-
tain Allison Hull and freshman
Tonia Dean scored to pull the
Generals within three at the
buzzer.

Dean had nine points and a
game-high eleven rebounds. Se-
nior Amy Mihal recorded ten

Photo Betsy Green, The Ring-twii Phi
including a 20 point upset victory.over arch-
rtime win versus Mary Washington, the

points and six boards before foul-
ing out, while junior Stacy Will-
iams netted eights and pulled down
nine rebounds.

Freshman Rachel Read upped
her assist total to 30, two behind
team-leader Hull.

Foul shooting was a problem
for the Generals as they went to
the line only eleven times, mak-
ing three. Bridgewater converted
13-of-17, including ten in the ﬁrst
half.

W&L had ended a three game
losing skid with a 52-38 win at
Hollins Tuesday night.

Holmes led the team with 13
points and 11 rebounds, moving
her into fourth place in the ODAC
in rebounding. Dean had a good
night with eight points, eight
boards, and two blocks.

Another freshman, Michelle
Hicks, had nine points and ﬁve
rebounds in the win at Hollins.

The Generals shot just 33 per-
cent for the game, but doubled
Hollins’ free throw total by mak-
ing 14-of-26.

W&L will host ODAC oppo-
nents Lynchburg, Virginia
Wesleyan and Randolph-Macon
over the next week. The
Lynchburg game is Saturday at
2:00 in the Warner Center.

Swimmers win easily

By Soorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Staff Writer

If there was any rustiness after not swimming
competitively for more than a month, the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s swimming squad gave
little indication of it as they trounced Buffalo
State, 111-52, on Wednesday evening at Cy
Twombly Memorial Pool.

The Generals upped their season record to a
perfect 4-0 with the.triumph.

W&L shattered three meet records during the
course of the night. Junior Rebekah Prince smashed
the mark for the 200 meter backstroke with a time
of 2:19.29. Freshman Megan Wiedmaier estab-
lished a new record in the 200 meter butterﬂy with
a 2:30.54. Senior Susan Fisher also got into the act
by crafting a new standard in the 200 meter IM
with her time of 2:29.20.

“They were good meet records,” coach Kiki
Jacobs remarked. “We swam better than we did at
this meet last year.”

The match got off to an inauspicious start for
the Generals as Buffalo State’s Jody Carnrike
burned her way to a new meet record in the very
ﬁrst event, the 50 meter freestyle, ﬁnishing with a
mark of 26.48. Camrike also captured the next
event, the 100 meter freestyle, in a time of 58.83.

However, it was all W&L after that as the

4 Generals placed ﬁrst in six of the next seven

events. Sophomore Jen Miller started W&L on the
comeback trail with a triumph in the 200 meter
freestyle with a log of 2:07.71. Sophomore Anne
Spencer sped to a 5:50.55 in her victory in the 500
meter freestyle, and Wiedmaier captured her ﬁrst of
two wins in the 1000 meter freestyle with her time
of 11:43.15.

With the momentum having clearly swung to the

Generals, the records began tumbling down. Prince

entered her name into the record books in the 200
meter backstroke.

Wiedmaier proved she was just as solid in the
sprints as she was in the longer races with her record
in the 200 meter butterﬂy, and Fisher blew away the
competition en route to her mark in the 200 meter
IM.

The Generals also established a team record in
the ﬁnal event, the 200 meter medley relay, with a
time of 2:01.52/

Jacobs was extremely pleased with the Generals’
effort.

“The team was tired from returning from break
and going through rush,” she said, “but we swam
real well.”

W&Lfaces a home meet on Saturday with Catho-
lie, a team which edged the General’s last year by
only seven points. However, the Generals will be
lacking the services of senior Brandi Henderson,
who Jacobs said would be “sorely missed.”

“The match will be real tough,” Jacobs said. ‘‘I
think we can swim well, but it will be tight.”

 

