  
     
 

K

it

f I  

 as _ high

F

Une soiree en
P Mme 9. l.lii¥,'i-.2-T'N :_,.«aa.s:-2.

wAsHtewar~tw+ 5 5...“ ’oA|.»t*».!P,&"a0
L_‘:_‘?.J'f._*{*«P{§': tJ‘.'~', “M .‘,lv’~‘N.

FEE  E95

  

, Uh Ring—tum lﬂlri

Generals drop overtime
Daskclball game to
Lgnchburg

VOLUME 94, No. 18/‘

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Law school carrels broken into

in and opened the doors as a joke," said Young.

Someone may have broken into carrels at the Washington and Lee Law School. Director of Secu-
rity Mike Young said the doors to some carrels were found standing open. He said no valuables or
money were taken. The doors had been shut but not locked. Young said if the doors had been
locked, anyone without a key would not have been able to open them. "I figure someone just went

Dorm Counselors
undergo rigorous
appllcatlon process

By BROOKE KEMPER
Phi Staff Writer

The freshman year at Washington and Lee epitomizes the
popular conception of dorm life. Cramped living quarters, com-
munal bathrooms, roommates, hallmates and Letitia Pate Evans
Dining Hall are all part of the experience at W&L. There is,
however, one thing which distinguishes W&L dorm dwelling
from that experienced at other colleges and universities: the dorm
counselor.

Unlike most schools where menacing R.A.s interact with
students on a primarily disciplinary level, the donn counselors at
W&L act as counselors and conﬁdants in addition to, but not
subordinate to, their roles as disciplinarians.

It takes a special person to fulﬁll this role. Senior Julia Podlas,
a dorm counselor of two years, shared some of the criteria for
dorm counselors. According to Podlas, candidates should be
responsible, good role models, excelling in academics, display-
ing leadership skills, demonstrating an awareness of university
policy and how to enforce it, as well as a willingness to work with
the faculty and administration if a problem with a student should
arise. Podlas claims, “an awareness of basic freshman problems
and how to handle them” and a respect for “the importance of
conﬁdentiality” are desirable attributes for prospective dorm
counselors.

An extensive, comprehensive series of essays and two per-
sonal interviews are utilized in the evaluation process. This year,
67 candidates competed for 19 positions, eight women dorm
counselors and 1 1 men dorm counselors. The pool of women and

men who initially applied was gradually decreased as interviews
were conducted and applications were reviewed. According to
Podlas, there were fewer candidates than expected.

Just what exactly is it that lures so many students to apply?
Senior two-year dorm counselor Quinn Kiley reﬂected on his
experience and motivation for applying.

“My freshman year dorm counselor was awful so I wanted to
change that.... Four people have become dorm counselors from my
freshman year hall.” .

Kiley mentioned this in addition to the obvious motivational
features of the ﬁnancial and resume building attributes associated
with the position. Dorm counselors are given free room and two-
thirds of their board expenses are covered by the university as a
result of their position.

Kiley also shared his own feelings concerning the selection
process. '

“There is no real formula [for selection].” Kiley recalled one
former dorm counselor who had a mere 2.3 but was an involved
member of SAB and football player.

“There are extremes on both sides [academic and involve-
ment].” However, Kiley said that most successful candidates are
pretty well—rounded.

It takes a unique individual to ﬁll the shoes of a dorm counselor
and this year’s candidates have clearly met this criteria. There
remains one problem in the process, however. There are simply not
enough positions for the vast number of talented applicants and this
is the reason for the comprehensive selection process.

The selection process is such that this year’s successful candi-
dates are sure to be the comforting confreres and counselors for
Washington and Lee’s class of 1999.

Head Counselor
]'ason Ward Kristen Cavros
S. R. Evans III
Kim Gartrell
Kara Kimsey

Counselors
Elizabeth Bahn

Robert Hull
I3/an Ianders
avid Tones

Elizabeth Cox
Missy F ullmer
Kenneth Zelenak

1995-1996
Dorm Counselors and Resident Advisors

Assistant Head Counselors

 

Tiffany Galiardi Holl Layman

Sara Benson Atticus Gill H0 is Leddy Amy Bookout
Andrew Bidwell Amy Corham foseph Merlino Bill Messerle
Brian Boland Chris H’ 5 Maggie O ilvie Natalie Messmore
Aloise Bozell Nathan ottle Brad Ph'1pson Yen N uyen
Adam Branson Paul Howe William Rust Anne pencer

Glen Schutzman
William S’ ler
I Iames Ur an

Head Res‘ ent viso
fosephine Schaeffer

Advisers
Anna Bentley

Shelley Sunderman
Robert Taylor

LEIGNGTON, VIRGINIA

VMI cadets,
W&L men tangle
in Red Square

By ETHAN Knurr
AND

DAN ODENWALD

Phi Staff Writers

Virginia Military Institute ca-
dets shattered a window and pic-
ture frame in the Pi Kappa Alpha
house and smashed three chairs at
the Beta Theta Pi houselast Sat-
urday in related incidents.

Mike Young, Director of
Washington and Lee Security said
Security received calls from both
the Beta and PiKA houses around
3:20 a.m. on February 5. When
ofﬁcers arrived at the PiKA house,
they found a VMI cadet Jeffrey
Berkley in the custody of seniors
Bill Murray and Joe Tison. Of-
ﬁcers from the Lexington Police
Department had already arrived,
and arrested Berkley for destruc-
tion of property, trespassing with
intent to destroy property, and
drunk in public, according to Lex-
ington Police Chief Bruce Beard.

Tison said he and Murray were
downstairs in the television room
when the heard glass breaking
upstairs.

“We went ﬂying upstairs,” he
said. “We saw three guys run-
ning through the house. One guy
tripped and [Murray] jumped on
[him].”

“We saw a guy in front of our
door punching out a window,”
said Murray, “I started running
after him and tackled him.”

Murray pinned the cadet to the
ground by sitting on him until
ofﬁcers arrived.

“When I asked him questions
(about the incident), he kept say-
ing,‘I don’t know, I don’t know,’”

said Murray, “He had definitely
been drinking — I could smell
bourbon on his breath.”

He also noticed dried blood
on the cadet’s face.

Tison said the other two men
ran off in the direction of Stop-
In.

A print of a train given to the
PiKA brothers by their Housing
Corporation and signed by the
artist was damaged when the
frame for it was ripped apart and
the glass broken. A tall window
near the front door was also bro-
ken. Tison said the print was cut
from the broken glass and worth
about $800. The frame was worth
another $200.

At about the same time, se-
nior Christopher Lamberson saw
four people leave the Beta house
from his third floor window.
When he went downstairs, he
found nine chairs tossed around,
three of which were destroyed.

“I heard something breaking
downstairs, like something be-
ing thrown against a wall. I
looked out of the window and
saw four guys running out of the
house,” said Lamberson.

Beta House "Mother Martha
Haley said she heard “a crash of
furniture being broken” around
3:20 a.m. She did notventure out
of her apartment until Lamberson
knocked at her door. She said
Lamberson told her about the
four men, who had run in the
direction of VMI. Haley said the
three chairs had been custom
made for the house and were
damaged beyond repair. No es-
timate for the cost of replacing
the chairs was available at press
time.

FEBRUARY 10, 1995

Col. Williams, Deputy Com-
mandant of VMI, said another ca-
det has come forward to accept
responsibility for the incident. The
unnamed cadet has pledged to pay
for the damage he caused. The
cadet also received three months
of conduct probation, three months
of barracks conﬁnement, 20 de-
merits, and 75 hours of penalty
tours. Penalty tours involve
marching in front of the barracks
carrying a riﬂe.

Williams said First Class Presi-
dent Ed Randall and the Regiment
Commander apologized to the
Beta and PiKA housemothers for
the destruction.

The VMI First Class represen-
tatives also visited Murray.

They came ready with their
checkbooks ready to cover any
damages inﬂicted on the PiKA
house, said Murray.

As for an explanation to why it
happened, Williams said the un-
named cadet claimed to have come
across Berkley with and injury to
his face, possibly a cut near his
eye, and then “went on a ram-
page.”

Haley said when the cadets
spoke to her, they indicated that
the unnamed cadet had been drink-
mg.
“They (the cadets involved)
were drunk and this is what hap-
pened,” Haley said.

Williams also said that the un-
named cadet’s acceptance of re-
sponsibility for the incidents may
get all but the drunk in public
charges against Berkley dropped.
This could not be conﬁrmed at
press time. Berkley is scheduled
to be back in court on March 14.

Photos by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi
Pi Kappa Alpha and Beta ThetaPi were vandalized last weekend, losing chairs and mirrors.

 

.EAQE.£

 

, BEYOND

THE BLUE RIDGE

The World   _  '  

 
 

ggpltgle ﬂies close to Russian space

On February 6, U.S. space shuttle Discovery ﬂew within 37 feet of the
Russian space station Mir. At about 2:20 p.m., Discovery commander
James Wetherbee made the first contact with the Russian space team since
1976.

U.S., China trade talks resume

On Monday, the U.S. and China announced that they will resume trade
talks which broke off on January 28 next Monday. This follows weekend
announcements of trade sanctions to be placed on each other's products.
U.S. business leaders feel that a trade war between the two nations can be
averted.

U.N. to send forces to Angola

Within the week, the U.N. plans to begin deploying 7,100 peace keeping
troops to enforce the cease ﬁre agreement in Angola. The cease fire accord,
aimed at ending the 34 year conflict, was signed last November. The U.N.
Security Council has received bipartisan support from Washington.

The Nation

President sends budget to Hill

 

On Monday, President Clinton sent a $1.61 trillion spending plan to
Capitol Hill. He claims to have cut spending, taxes, and the deficit, while
not decreasing funding for education, Social Security, or Medicare. Re-
publicans believe that has not proposed the tough spending cuts needed to
balance the budget.

House passes line-item veto

On Monday night, the House approved the Republican legislation that
increases the president's power to cut congressional spending. The bill
allows the president to challenge specific projects without vetoing the
whole bill. The legislation is expected to meet resistance in the Senate.

Clinton gives Foster conditional
support

On Monday, President Clinton said that he would continue to support
Dr. Henry Foster, his nominee for surgeon general, if Foster's claim that he
has perfonned fewer than twelve abortions is true. This followed a claim
by antiabortion groups that Foster had been more heavily involved.

The State is

Assembly passes new pollution
legislation

In Richmond on Monday, the Virginia General Assembly passed
legislation that grants many polluters protection from court and state
penalties if they voluntarily assess the damage that they cause. Although
they would still have to clean up pollution, companies would not have to
disclose any information they gathered.

House of Delegates passes motor-
voter legislation

The Virginia House of Delegates legislation which allows voter regis-
tration by mail and at motor-vehicle offices. The House also approved a

proposal to allow motorists to use a number otherthan their Social Security’

number on driver's licenses.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
Bethany Bauman.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1995

Lee reborn for the Postal Service

The United States Postal Service recently announced that -it would release a series of Civil War stamps, one of which will
be a portrait of the late Robert E. Lee. Other stamps will depict Clara Barton, Frederick Douglass, and three other famous
Civil War figures. The Postal Service hopes to release the stamps June 25; Washington and Lee students and alumni plan
to buy large quantities of the special Lee stamp in commemoration of Lee's legacy at Washington and Lee.

Superdance and the Samples
draw 1000 students to Pavilion

By LORI RAMSEY
Phi Staff Writer

On Friday, February 3, Big Hairy Posse and the
Samples played at the 16th Annual Supcrdance.
Supcrdance is a benefit for the Muscular Dystrophy
Association.

Supcrdance made money from ticket sales and from
students who collected pledges and contributions to
attend the concert. Those collected $100 get in free.

Co-chair Tina Hand said that Supcrdance was “defi-
nitely successful, but we won’t know the final numbers
for about another week.” She estimated that between
900 and 1000 people attended the concert.

Co-chair Trey Block said, “this year’s
Supcrdance was more successful because the
Samples is a more popular band. Last year’s act was
David Allan Coe, who was not as popular with as
many people. This is why attendance went up.” Coe
drew about 800 people.

Hand said that they were very proud of the
ﬁnancial donations and door prize donations they
had received. Non-alcoholic beverages and food
concessionsweredonated.Concessionswerestaffed
by members of the service fraternity Alpha Phi
Omega, and the beer garden was also staffed by
volunteers.

Student security guards were paid less than
usual because the event was for charity. Hand said
“people were generous in donating their time and

money and the business community was generous in
donating products.”
Fontanne Bostic of University Services said the

event probably drew close to $20,000. She hopes W

Washington and Lee will be able to donate about
$10,000 to MDA. _

“The Samples were a huge success,” said Hand.
“They really enjoyed Washington and Lee and Lex-
ington.”

And what did concert-goers think?

‘‘I’m not a really big Samples fan, but I really
enjoyed it,” said freshman David DeMartino.

Senior John Paul Lunn said, “I thought it was
great. I especially enjoyed the single sets.”

Hillary Olson, ’97, summed up the evening:

“It was awesome!”



18-year-old
turns self in
after ﬂeeing

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

An 18-year-old man turned him-
self in to Lexington police Tuesday
in connection with the attempted
robbery of two Washington and Lee
students.

Police arrested Steven M. Fos-
ter of Natural Bridge at 4:50 p.m. on
Feb. 6. Foster left the state several
days after an attempted robbery on
Jan. 27. Foster's mother and attor-
ney notified police that Foster had
left the state, said Sergeant Wayne
Straub. Foster returned voluntar-
ily. He is charged with attempted
armed robbery and use of a firearm
in the commission of a felony and is
currently being held on $25,000
bondat the Rockbridge County Re-
gional Jail.

Two other teen-agers have been
arrested and charged in the case.
Because of their age, police refused
to release their names. One has been
released, and one is also being held
at Rockbridge County Regional Jail.

Foster held a sophomore at gun-
point at 8:30 Friday, Jan. 27, ac-
cording to Straub.

The sophomore had been walk-
ing to the Batcave, a house on the
corner of Randolph and Massey
streets, with two friends when a
group of eight teen-agers confronted
him. After the sophomore ignored
them, one of the teen-agers, Foster,
pulled a gun. A police car passed by
and the group ran away.

, Ashort while later, Foster pulled
a gun on the sophomore again after
taking a stereo from the Batcave.

Later that night, said Straub, the
Foster fired a gun at a freshman.
The freshman was not hit

The freshman's description of
Foster matched the sophomore's de-
scription.

Police are still investigating.

i‘

‘T

V

 

4

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1995

 
  
     
 

Immortal Beloved — ﬂit’

Should you see this ﬁlm? Only if you are a
big Beethoven fan.

In the same way that/Imadeus transformed

a Mozart from ‘another dead musical genius’ to

an immature, partying, very-much-alive ge-
nius,ImmortalBeloved tries to make Beethoven
a heroic ﬁgure full of passion, romance, anger,
tragedy and frustration.

After his death, his secretary Anton Schindler
(Jeroen Krabbé) uncovers a final will which
leaves all of his possessions and music to his
one true love, his “immortal beloved.”

The only problem is, Beethoven never both-
ers to state her name.

1*‘ Being a devoted servant, his secretary dili-

gently pursues all of Beethoven’s various fe-
male interests around Europe to ascertain which
was his true “immortal beloved” and thereby
honor the maestro’s last wish.

4 But not just a tale of these various pursuits,

the film becomes more and more a psychologi-
cal exposition of Beethoven’s life, exploring
his relationship with his brothers and his father,
as well as with the women.

A centerpiece is his battle with his widowed

‘ sister-in-law, the former Johanna Reiss

(Johanna ter Steege) for custody of his nephew,
Karl van Beethoven, and the erratic and pecu-
liar manner he lived in for the last years of his
life.

, Of course, as we would expect from any

’ film about Beethoven, the music always takes
center stage.

The movie’s music was directed by the
famous Sir Georg Solti, and his renditions of
the many Beethoven favorites are all moving

“ and powerful.

The film’s supposed focus is the search for
his “immortal beloved,” and the tragedy and
distress Beethoven’s relationship with her en-
gender; despite this, I found the analysis of

4 Beethoven’s deafness to be much more inter-

esting and insightful.

It is simply phenomena] to think that this
great composer never heard many of his works
performed and had no way to test them or
experiment with them — except in his own
mind.

Director Bernard Rose (who also wrote the
screenplay) highlights the anguish and frustra-
tion of his deafness through a variety of effects.

For example, during some of the musical

: performances, while we can see the orchestra

playing, the audience can hear only the beating
of Ludwig’s heart — as Beethoven himself
would have experienced it.

The result is so pitiful and despairing that
we are left thinking of the failed romance with
his “immortal beloved” as a secondary tragedy
when compared to his deafness.

Overall, though, Rose has done a rather
boring job.

The movie looks like a Masterpiece The-

1' ater special, with the exception of a few out-of-

place, artsy scenes (eg, Ludwig’s bizarre night-
time swim).

Without the power of the music, the ﬁlm
would be nothing.

,4 Gary Oldman (Dracula, TrueRomance, etc.)

does a spectacular jobvas the impetuous and
asocial composer.
With the exception of the deathbed scene,
which is melodramatic and overacted, he is
, careful to keep Beethoven’s famous passions
and outbursts under (relative) control.
Oldman is especially effective when the
film concentrates on Beethoven’s deafness and
how the pure power of his music, even though
not audible to him, helps him transcend his

1! frustration.

The marvelous Isabella Rossellini, who plays
the Countess of Erdody, is underused.

The character is too small and her ample
talent is wasted in this ﬁlm.

1 On the whole, the other supporting actors

are competent to their tasks.

Although Oldman could whip Tom Hulce’s
Mozart any day, and despite the inherent in-
trigue of Beethoven’s life, Immortal Beloved is
simply not up to the standards Amadeus set.

The script is lackluster, poorly polished and
rambling.

The whole focus of the ﬁlm, his failed
romance with his true love, is lost in the trauma
of his deafness and the power of the music.

4 The acting is ﬁne, the directing boring, the

script tedious, and the sets and costumes stun-
nrn .

gUnlike Amadeus, the film would be point-

less and unenjoyable without the great
1 soundtrack of Beethoven’s music.

However, Beethoven’s music is great, so, if
you’re a fan, you will probably enjoy Immortal
Beloved. Otherwise, I would at best recom-
mend it for rental on a night when you feel the
need to be cultured, and are drinking wine

4 instead of beer.

by BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

Most Washingon and Lee Students have just
recently started thinking about this year’s Fancy
Dress Ball, most likely in terms of getting a
date. Senior “Paducah” Joe Framptom has given
FD significantly more thought. Framptom is
Chairman of the 1995 Fancy Dress Ball.

When asked by the Phi why he wanted to be
FD Chairman, Framptom answered with his
usual candor, “God d***; I don’t know. I
honestly don’t know.”

He enjoyed working for the Steering Com-
mittee for the past two years, but didn’t want the

f

I was tearing my hair out and I kept saying,
‘There’s no way in hell I’m doing this again
next year.”’ The week applications were due,
Framptom still didn’t intend to apply for a
position.

He says, “Then on the day the applications
were due, I ended up applying, and here I am.”
Quite a big commitment for a spontaneous
decison—Framptom now spends forty to fifty
hours a week working on Fancy Dress and
predicts that it will take up even more of his
time as the big event nears. ‘

How has Framptom been spending all of
that time?

His job consists of organizing and coordi-
nating every aspect of FD. Framptom
says that he often leaves specific
detail work up to the heads of the
various committees. He gives occa-
sional advice and makes sure every-
one gets their job done.

The Fancy Dress Ball Steering
Committee has undergone a great
deal of change since Framptom has
taken over. Last year’s committee
had ﬁfty-nine people. Framptom felt
it was time to streamline.

“With that many people on the
committee, it was too cumbersome.
Because there were so many people
working, some of them felt that their
job wasn’t that important and they
would devote less time to it than they
needed to.”This year’s Steering Com-
mittee was cut by sixteen positions.
New positions were added to aid in
the organization of FD. The new
Decorations Coordinator, Ashley
Bell, oversees the decoration of all
parts of both gyms. Dan Mann has the
new position of Entertainment Coor-
dinator. He is in charge of finding
bands to play at the ball and at the

Mandela’s road
to freedom

by MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

For 27 years, Nelson Mandela
spent his life looking out of a prison
cell, not able to touch his wife or
watch his children grow up. In
America, signs reading “Free Nelson
Mandela” went up as luminaries such
as Jesse Jackson and the late Arthur
Ashe protested against the tyranni-
cal system of South African apart-
heid.

In 1990, South African president
de Klerk freed Mandela to the joy-
ous delight of freedom lovingAmeri-
cans and Africans. On April 27, 1994,
black South Africans voted for the
first time in over 300 years and
elected Mandela as the first black
South African president.

How did he feel during all those
years on Robben Island and later in
Pollsmour Maximum Security
Prison? What kind of a man could go
through so much and yet emerge
victorious and unembittered? For an-
swers to these questions, you might
want to pick up Long Walk to Free-
dom: The Autobiography of Nelson
Mandela.

Born to Thembu chief, he grows
up in the Transkei, about eight hun-
dred miles from the Cape. In the
village of Qunu, he plays with his
friends and explores nature.

When his father dies, he goes to
live with the village’s regent, Chief
Jongintaba Dalindyebo and attends
school.

Because he lived with the regent,
Mandela had the opportunity to at-
tend some of the best schools in
South Africa. Yet, at this time, he
remained unaware of the inferior po-
sition of black Africans.

When he went to college, he was
awakened by an imbongi, an oral
historian named Krune Mqhayi. The
poet spoke out against British colo-
nizers, people Mandela had grown
to admire.

“I could hardly believe my ears.
His boldness in speaking of such
delicate matters in the presence of

Dr. Wellington and other whites
seemed utterly astonishing to us. Yet
at the same time, it aroused and moti-
vated us, and began to alter my per-
ception of men like Dr. Wellington,
whom I had automatically considered
my benefactor.”

Mandela slowly became aware of
blacks’ position in society and the
need for African unity across tribal
lines. After moving to Johannesburg,
he involved himself in the Youth
Leagues of the African National Con-
gress. .

As Youth League leaders galva-
nized the stagnant ANC, Mandela
practiced law while becoming an ac-
tivist. Through the years, Mandela
would protest in the unsuccessful
Deﬁance campaigns as the South Af-
rican government implemented apart-
heid in all phases of social life.

He talks about his life as a fugitive
(The Black Pimpemel). He paints in
detail the friction between the ANC
and the Pan-African Congress. In re-
cent years, some have chosen to por-
tray Mandela as a Communist.
Mandela makes clear that while the
ANC did not support the basic tenets
of Communism, they nonetheless ac-
cepted the party’s help.

More important than his positions,
Mandela gives the reader a chance to
truly know him, his mistakes and his
victories, his pain and his joy.

The reader feels the strain of 27
years in prison on a marriage and the
sheer happiness when Mandela and
Winnie embrace after 21 years of not
touching one another.

The notion of not seeing your
child’s ﬁrst words or experiencing the
joy of your child’s graduating from
high school makes Mandela’s story
humane and touching.

Upon the close of the book, one
cannot help but marvel at the strength
of a man who had to endure as much
as Mandela did. With honesty, dig-
nity, and a wry sense of humor, he
tells his story in eloquent and simple
prose.

After reading the book, I added
Mandela’s name to my long list of
heroes. You might do the same when
you read it.

Wis

has that new job, coordinates the movement of
contstruction work from the Boiler Room to the
Pavilion, then to its ﬁnal location in the Warner
Center.

Framptom says that “Good, big decorations
and a theme students can identify with that’s
appropriate for a formal event” are the keys to
a good FD. This year’s theme, Une Soiree
Parisienne, was chosen soon after the commit-
tee was formed.

Everyone who applied for a position on the
committee was asked to list three possible
themes, Framptom said. The themes listed were
then debated by the committee. The ones that
were most seriously considered were Peter Pan,
a casino/l.as Vegas/Monte Carlo idea, and
Monopoly.

The committee rejected Peter Pan in part
because of its similarities to last year’s Aladdin-
inspired theme. They also worried about pos-
sible copywrite problems if Peter Pan or Mo-
nopoly was used. They also thought that they
would have trouble carrying through decora-
tions in both gyms with the casino and Mo-
nopoly themes. The Paris theme seemed like
the best bet.Framptom has many good memo-
ries of theFancy Dress Balls he’s attended at
Washington and Lee.

Last year’s decorations gave him some tense
moments. He and Leo Decanini built a magic
carpet to ﬂy around the ceiling of the gym last
year. Framptom said, “The whole time, it was
in the back of our minds that something might
happen with it, that it would catch on ﬁre or fall

on everyone. Luckily there weren’t apy;--prob-.~ »f1:o_adu¢&h.,,K§_',‘,tu¢}¢y; ..h,,..,h,,,,,;,.,,,,,u,,g —of the :

lems.’’ .

Next year, Framptom plans to continue study-
ing geology at Montana State University, the
University of New Hampshire, the University
of Kentucky, or Eastern Kentucky University.
He says if that doesn’t work out, he’ll find a job,
“In the salt mines somewhere or something.”
Perhaps he can ﬁnd work in his hometown of

,3
‘ .
-“5u .. ,.,. 44;

K
MUSIC 0 ltl
K’ at 
. Olf lm m Oflﬂf
. Beloved
( J. j . .
“ ,3,-; ~ByKHuE Sysomi _«
3 PIzi.Movje'Bavi_ewe1j‘~ ‘.
“ {Recovered frwri tlreﬂiiciepgogv ‘ ...
_:bptat.ilbr%ve;ing‘l'1_-oma[.>_ot«_§)_ "_‘
‘ ‘ - ' ' ‘L ” ' ‘ ~ stress ofbeingincharge. Framptom says, “Last Thursday night concert. The third new job is

I year when I was working as construction chair, C0nSt1'1lCti0n L0giStiCian- D0Ug1aS Bums, Who

National Quilting Society, where thirty to forty
thousand quilters ﬂock each spring for a con-
vention. Right now, though, Fancy Dress Ball
is foremost in Joe Framptom’s mind, with the
possible exception of the aspect most W&L
students are thinking about. Framptom admits,
‘‘I do not have a date yet, and I probably still
won’t have a date when this gets published.”

  

ix
.1

h you -ere hezrell love. ll/he Ding-tum Phi

 

 
   
  

\

The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1995
W&LIFE "

MIXED MEDIA Luze [N @iqqt;‘
by Jack Ohman    7

Do 300 eves:
FAv.\TASI1E ABOUT

      
  

"0 FEOERAl %‘£’c'i§&%‘I’<‘.’.3%.‘t’.§‘v‘e“% I
/ } RE $EwE‘99 I
,/ B‘
‘ I Jwww CARTER-

  
 
   
 

 
   

 

 ’ JIMMY I
g “i (.AP§ER

 voem -

EE 7 REAWNG

9:-m30V9J&Vw I-9 399:6) 3.LVJ|4l"§S raaﬁa-V3: 3-nv Sbbl - E -I

   

    
      
   
   
   
   
   
     
  
   
    

TOTE Y

81*’ .
[S-.....  '- ,_

7/,»427¢53E&?0.45 5
Valley  smdgw 6” Wm“ Kelly S Corner '
7&1” at “$6 ¢"d  5 on Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington

"The tradition continues”

Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea.,
delicious BBQ sandwiches $1.39
7-Up, A&W root beer, RC, cream soda-
3 cans / $1.00
Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .069/gal.
Unleaded Plus - $1 .129/gal.

Natural Light
$4.29/12 pack - $8.50/case
40 lb. ice - $4.99

CHECK FOR OUR DAILY PRICES

As Always, We Provide The Best
Service For The W&L Community

Open 7 Days 463-5452 Mlles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

/9 s. zmaw 5:.
463-2742 »

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

The Ring/tum 

W & L A  Sensitive, caring,

wen/mannered,

  

ga{nIuIIy empIo)/ed,

     
 

‘W&L CAMPUS BY DAVID

awa s tstentn ,
I H 3

KEELING - s/N LIMITED EDITION Jwavs mP°“4*"8 t°

 your gNever.'  A

   gets a hangover.
I_,ooI<s great in
formal I)IacI< ancl

' LJ .W. BROCKEB ROUGH - white.

II it werenjt such a

darned I'1orriI3Ie  

' R. E. LEE SIGNATLJ RE ON  You won“ Nltﬂttlhlitrﬂﬁ Em Ma   ‘
asI< it to  I I I 3 - .
W&L LETTERHEAD »

PLATE, RESTRIKE HAN D"COLORED

I 868 SIGNED CHECK

‘W&L COLONNADE, PI—:N/INK

 

%zi$é".ﬂ/9/‘.¢ﬂ/(5%?   , "  

@¢xi@

BY D. B LAC KWELL
.§P@ﬂ<S)cS’.0/'Jfc€oeM2.0/‘F/3o2i.%7{é°?/'.§V

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)464-6464 my-mg 9,; mm.

B H I. l [  ‘ _g  we/Mme .1/II/.mr' /WW, I
Open Monday - Saturday I’ 
10 am. _ 5:30 pm_ BEAUTIFULLY WRAPPED / SHIPPED ANYWHERE

16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 I

  

 

IIX11IZI§11XIIIII1XIZII

 

 

A ' ‘Do You Want VISA & Maslercard redit Cards?

   
  
  
   

 

E’
I it A
I . I "
....,,....':::..I°:..‘:.‘:.:::':.?:J:3r..':°:;;'°.z:;':."..:.'.a’: I YES! mmwsaotmsmcmzoo c-um. wmummm
credit wd&—'|n your name-' EVE" ‘F V0” W "W '" ' ids med Immediate . 100% GUARANTEED! I . . .
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEK)RE! . Q app ‘y . os1t1ons available monthly. BA
VISAS and Masiercanio the credit cards you I I rBSfeqUir€d- $13,000-24900 ‘ .
deserve and need for— lD—BOOl(S-DEPARTMENT | NAM | r, Accom. rovided, other ben-
STOREs—-'l‘UlTlON—ENTER'l‘AlNM ENl‘- E - P ~
EMERGENCY CASH—'l‘K2KE'l‘S-RESTAURAN'lS— : ADDRESS : ms‘ Send resume’ °°py °f dlf
iio'rEi.s-Mo'rEI.s—c.As-CAR RENI‘ALS— loma and copy Of Passport t0- f
R!-2PAlR5—AND TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RA‘l1NGl : Cl'lY __.___._ STATE _ ZIP : ok Ji Corporation, Yang Chu
= 49 .0. Box 8 Yang Chun Gu. SCOJII "
wtiﬂﬂm "0 t“"|\ ‘M5! ' PHONE . SS’ : Korea TEL: ()ll-.\’22-241—5tu1" {
smennug No credit checks! I SIGNATURE I FAX: 0, ,_b.33_m__,g.,L..,, I‘
‘\§[l“.‘'_go 6:‘ llo security de90S‘It! ' non: MasterCard la . iegietemi llldcnltit d iuaieuomi imemetion-L ine. — '1
g\$l;"°,¢1 5’ SEND THE COUPON TODAY I Vlsa I: e uegtstmxi tnaumit aivistt us; me mi VISA Intenntiomi I I I
I T ' I ‘ '
Youa CREDIT CARDS ARE ninuc! . "‘"' ""5 "° ms“ °°"P°" mp" I F ;_ __ V _.o;... ..A_ 2 _ _ 

 

  

.’ PAGE 5

@112 illing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

   

‘A place to call their own...

" I am going to share the wealth of my experience as a
senior at Washington and Lee University. As a fresh-
man, as a sophomore, and even up until a few months
ago, I was clueless about things like jobs and contacts
and all that wonderful stressful stuff.

Here is my pearl of advice for all of you: alumni are
a powerful and wonderful resource. Alumni are our key

vi to interviews, information and, ultimately, jobs.

Another W&L student and I visited a corporation this
week, whose CEO is a Washington and Lee graduate; he
made a point to greet us as we began our day of
interviews. A rare experience; that the CEO of one of the
15 largest investment banks in America would take the
time to meet two college students that would feel lucky
. to enter at the bottom rung of his corporation.

Washington and Lee is just that way...the experience
is so valuable that alumni greet current and former
students as partners in a special system, almost as

‘ members of a fraternity whose experience transcends
generation and even sex (unusual for a college which
was once a bastion of masculinity).

Alumni, who understand that Washington and Lee is
special, that it takes an unusual person to graduate from
the institution, are an invaluable resource. And as such,
they are both willing and able to be used as contacts,

i’ informational sources and even ways to open doors

which you may have thought were closed.

It is partly the honor system which binds alumni to us;

no one else can understand the value which we place in

‘ the moral structure of the school, and neither can “out-

siders” conceive of the importance of the traditions and
honor of Robert E. Lee to us.

Alumni are more than willing to provide information
and helpful hints to undergraduates, whether it be j ob- or
socially related, with the understanding that, when we
are alumni, we will be just as glad to help the inquiring

"‘ undergraduates of the next generation.

A testimony to the tightbond of Washington and Lee
students, past andmpresent, is the strength and perpetuity
of recruiting programs of the companies for which many
Washington and Lee students work. In almost every
case, employers have been impressed with the past
products of W&L, and are more than eager to recruit the

.4 best and brightest of this generation of students.

Take advantage of the powerful resource of alumni; it
is important to plan for your future now, no matter what
your grade. The culture of Washington and Lee is

" unique and worthy of perpetuation; the alumni under-
stand and strive to maintain this, both within and outside
of the Lexington community.

I

Quote of the Week...

“When I think of SPAM, I think of Ricki Lake.
And when I think of Ricki Lake, I deﬁnitely

‘V .
think of SPAM.”
---A speech student demonstrating

, chzasmus, a rhetorical device

9' 0 0
« Gllri: ittmg-tum lﬂlrt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

4- Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Scott Bookwalter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dan Odenwald, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickinger

‘ Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

“ Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard
The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
" Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.
Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
A Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
W’ Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
_{ Fax (703) 462-4060

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1995

 

What about the
lvqseball Strike?

   

wait it out...

  

   
     

Draft ’em‘.

  

We Could call
Jimmy again...

 
 
 
 

Now you’re talking‘.
Let’s Call Jimrnyl

 
    

Iranian terrorism threatens West  

 
    
 

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

One of the greatest misconceptions
about terrorism is that it is practiced
only by Moslem extremists. One need
not look far to disprove this idea, of
course, but perhaps the most powerful
counter to such a misconstrued notion
is a simple fact of history: the most
effective terrorists of the twentieth cen-
tury have not been Arabs at all, but
Israelis. It was the Israelis — or rather,
a small group of them — who brought
home to the West the full reality of the
new age of terrorism when they bombed
the King David Hotel in the years be-
fore 1948, when Palestine was still a
British mandate. The Zionists got their
Jewish state, of course, and its leaders
(some of whom had been terrorists
themselves!) would go on in later years
to use the specter of Arab terrorism to
elicit support from the West.

My point is not that either Jews or
Arabs can claim the moral high ground
on the issue of terrorism; in fact, my
point is precisely the opposite. Terror-
ism is more common than we like to
think. Parties we like to think of as
essentially innocent often resort to it,
and it certainly cannot be ascribed to
any single racial or religious group.

Having said all this, however, it is
still the case that Arab terrorism is of

American

primary concern to Westerners whose
first priority is not to defend any high
principle in particular, but to avoid
being blown up. For the British, no
doubt, a preoccupation with the dan-
gers posed by the IRA is understand-
able, but there is probably no greater
danger to the physical security of West-
em people as a whole than that posed
by Arab terrorism. The recent events
in New York City only underscore this
fact. Previously, the U.S. escaped the
brunt of terror attacks, but now even
we are fair game. The dramatic resolu-
tion to the hijacking of an Air France
jet out of Algiers, in which the terror-
ists were killed and all the passengers
saved, should not give us any false
illusions about the ease of dealing with
terrorist incidents. Once any person
makes the decision that he is willing to
trade his life to achieve certain po-
litical ends, the stakes become very
high indeed.

All this leads us to my central point.
Terrorism is not only a problem to
those who are unfortunate enough to be
affected by it personally; it is also a
major threat to the security of the West
and to the integrity of Western nations.
We recognized this fact in a-decisive
way during the Reagan administration,
when we bombed Libya to discourage
that country from supporting future
terrorist actions against the United
States. It is not entirely clear that we
weresuccessful in convincing the Liby-
ans to desist from helping terrorists kill
Americans, but at the very least we
established that there are consequences
for such action, and that the United

States would act to safeguard its citi-
zens and foremost interests.

The greatest terrorist threat to the
West no longer comes from Libya. It
comes from Iran. I have heard esti-
mates that Iran spends as much as $250
million to support various terror groups

friction, and therefore terrorism, will
play an even greater role, we must
resolve to take a strong stand against
nations which, like Iran, support ter-
rorism. The Western powers should
jointly formulate an ultimatum to Iran
that, if adhered to, would guarantee

every year — Iranceasefrom
and does so de- sponsorship of
spite the fact all terrorist ac-
thattheU.S. has C C tivities and
attempted to - - would scru u-
cozy up to the Terrorlsm ls not lously respgct
Iranians, trying only a problem to the rights of all
to lure them into people to travel
returning to the those who are unfor' and live with-
community of tunate enough t0 be outfearofarbi-
nations with ° _ trary attack.
trade deals and aﬁecfefl  ltpersqn Any self-re-
the like. Suf— ally; lt l8 alsoamqjor spectingsover-
ﬁceittosaythat threat to the security eign nation
our strategy to would insist on
date has failed; Ofthe West on precisely these
moderates have terms. The Ira-
not taken con- nian coast
trol of Iran’s should be
government, blockaded and

and money continues to ﬂow out to
terrorist organizations (just as Iranian
oil continues to ﬂow into the West).
Such a situation can no longer be
tolerated. Few states have done as
much as Iran to destabilize the political
situation in the Middle East and to
directly threaten the physical security
of Western peoples. This has all been
met with inaction or active collabora-
tion (as was the case with Oliver North)
on the part of Western countries. As
we close in on the twenty-ﬁrst century,
a century in which ethnic and religious

all military measures short of land war
should be actively considered to force
Iranian compliance.

I understand this is a radical step,
but the terrible dangers of terrorist ac-
tion in the next century make clear that
now is the time to take a resolute stand
against illegitimate forms of geopoliti-
cal intimidation. Western policy has
always been timid in its reactions to
terrorist states. The price for that ti-
midity has been high, and now is the
time to ﬁnally insist that we will no
longer pay it.

history is minority history

NOVA

’96

 

CLARKE,

today. There are individuals not as well known as Dr.
King, Malcolm X, and Thurgood Marshall who were
just as important to America’s current status as a

world leader.

My purpose here is not to highlight all the contribu-
tions of non-white, non-male Americans (that would
take too much time and space), but to point out that all

As many of you know, and some probably try to
forget, February is Black History Month, and will
shortly be followed by Women’s History Month. I
can hear the groans now: “A column on forced
multiculturalism...” I agree that there really should
be no need for a Black History Month. All one needs

to know about Black History
should be encompassed in
American history.

American history is based
on the actions and ideas of many
individuals and groups of all
racial backgrounds and both
genders. For example, it was
the threat by A. Philip Randolph

ofa march on Washington that father ’s...Though
forced Roosevelt to issue Ex- b

ecutive Order 8802, integrat- there may e a.nces'
ing tlae :15; irt1)du_strjes- E This tors I would like to
provi e e asis or xecu-

tive Order 9981, integrating the €19 ny9 th ey are
military. These actions which znseperable from
are identiﬁed primarily with the

interests of African-Americans m'.e' It wo u  
allowed Colin Powell the nice---but I can t
chance to become Chaimian of and don "t want to_

the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Powell
is a hero and a role model to
millions of Americans, no mat-
ter their race or gender. There
are many other impacts Afri-

can-Americans have had in the arts, sciences, educa-
tion, and law that extend far beyond the black
community and are part of what shapes America

family...is as much
a part of me as my

(4--

My mother’s

groups have contributed to our national heritage There
is no way to separate one group from the past that has
formed us all. In the same way the inﬂux of Carpetbag-
gers during Reconstruction inﬂuenced the modern
South, minorities have inﬂuenced the modern nation.
This principle may be more easily understood at a
personal level. You are your ancestors and nothing can
separate their blood and genes
from your makeup. My mother’s
family (German, Polish, Hungar-
ian, and Russian) is as much a part
of me as my father’s family (Carib,
African, and Scottish). Though
there may be ancestors I would
like to deny, they are inseparable
from me. It would be nice to deny
that any of my father’s ancestors
ever owned slaves, but lcan’t and
don’t want to. Who knows what
qualities of theirs I inherited?
All this talk of denial brings up
the question of historical revision-
ism. The most recent controversy
to make the news has been the
display of the Enola Gay. Some
believe the exhibit description was
a criticism of America, scaling
backthe numberofAmericanlives
that would have been lost should
the war have continued. Admit-
tedly, the exhibit was ﬂawed, but
an important lesson about revi-
sionism can be learned. It is better to simply present the
facts and some thoeries and let people make their own
interpretations than to try to change history and make

excuses for the past.
Black History Month has been criticized as a
scapegoat for the attempt to revise history and

make it truer to the past. During the unveiling of the

one.

National Standards for Education and new text-
books approved under those standards, there were
complaints from people that in the attempt to make
books more multicultural, they were sacriﬁcing
some of the giants of American history. One
mention of Lincoln compared to twenty of King.
Multicultural textbooks do present a problem. There
is no way to adequately include every group’s
history in the average history class. The class
would require several hours a day, seven days a
week, in order to cover simply African American
history. But there is a solution, if not the perfect

One suggestion for Black History Month is that
it should notbe only amonth, but all yearlong. To
me, that means you try to seek a balance in the
classroom. When discussing science, don’t ignore
the contributions of other groups. The above ex-
ample of a history book is unfair. Lincoln deserves
a book to himself; but, in the interest of education
there should be a move from no mention of Frederick
Douglass to at least a mention of his role in pre-
Civil War Society. I admit I have no expertise
when it comes to dealing with the history books,
but there should be a way to make them broader, so
that the first time people hear of some of these
historical ﬁgures is in middle school, not college.

It is often said that, “Those who do not know
history are doomed to repeat it.” Perhaps Gingrich
and company should take that into consideration
when they rework the budget. Instead of adding
several unneccessary billions to the defense bud-
get, they should spend some more on education. If
they do so, then the next time the name Enola Gay
comes up in a classroom, students can identify it
with the dropping of the nuclear bomb. That way,
no matter what they decide about Truman’s rea-
sons, they will know such an event should never

happen again.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1995

OPINION

Doctor of Looove adVisesVa1entine’s Day shoppers

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

Valentine’s Day is coming soon.
It’s a time for love and romance, a time
to show your appreciation for those
who have meant so much to you.
There’s just one thing: DON’T MESS
IT UP.

If you give the wrong kind of gift for
Valentine’s Day, you are screwed, be-
cause your Valentine will be sure to
give you the perfect gift, one that is
funny, original, and romantic. That
stupid signiﬁcant other of yours has
managed to perfectly encapsulate your
relationship in one present and you got
him jumper cables. You need help.
You need me, the Doctor of Looove.

First of all, you need to ﬁgure out
the nature of your relationship with
your Valentine. Are you in a stable,
monogamous relationship? Is he the
cute guy you’ve been quietly stalking?
Is it a secret crush? (Guys, I know how
you all feel about me. Who could
blame you?) Are you “seeing each
other” and in those giddy and awkward
“getting to know you” phases? Or
maybe it’s just some random person
you hooked up with. Here’s a hint
from the Doctor of Looove: if you
didn’t bother to learn each other’s
names, you are in no way obligated to
exchange gifts.

Sometimes it’s good to work things
out in advance of the big day, like a
price range or something like that. I
decided to be direct and inform my
boyfriend that he was not to give me a
present because I’m not sending him
one, but that I do expect a card and if I
don’t get one, I’ll be really mad. He
found my honesty refreshing. I sup-
pose the typical girly thing for me to do
would be not to tell tell him what I
wanted, then get miffed when he inevi-
tably messed it up. Since I am not a girl,
but a WOMAN, this was not an issue.
But I digress. Rather than reminding
you all once more of my perfection, I
shall get to the point and help you with
a gift-giving guide from the Doctor
of Looove.

Flowers. I am a big fan of ﬂowers.

They look so pretty and you can then
call all of your friends and say fun
things like, “I got ﬂowers. Nyah, nyah.”
I am even more in favor of women
giving men ﬂowers. They don’t know
they want ﬂowers, but deep down, they
do. (Hint #43 from Doctor Looove: in
some men, this desire is deeper than in
others. Beware.) Plus it makes you
look really good. If you and Mr. Ad-
equate should some day break up, when
his next girlfriend is whining because
he never buys her ﬂowers, he can say,
“Then how come you never give me
ﬂowers like that Aphrodite that is my
ex-girlfriend did? I wonder where she
is now.” This can yield a great varia-
tion on the gift of ﬂowers: the gift of
ﬂowers from an ex-boyfriend. You’re
not going to complain——hey, they’re
ﬂowers. And your new boyfriend, with
any luck, will feel obligated to out-
ﬂower the old one. Pit them against
each other for fun and proﬁt.

Candy. Candy is the other classic
gift. Its simplicity is deceptive—candy
is too risky. If you buy it for your
girlfriend, she could think you’re try-
ing to make her fat and complacent.
Then instead of spending time with
your loving self, she’ll be busy doing
StairMaster saying things like, “An-
other 200 ﬂights of stairs and I will
have burned off that low calorie dress-
ing I put on my salad!” Should you buy
candy for your boyfriend? He’s not
going to worry about getting fat, but
you face an even greater risk: his
friends. Men have a kind of radar that
detects the presence of free food. They
will swoop down upon it in ﬂocks, like
vultures. I think Ieaming to detect and
claim free food is an important part of
ritual in most fraternities, but you didn’t
hear it from me. Worse still, if you and
your Valentine exchange candy, one of
you might be tempted to make a Forrest
Gump joke, which will basically kill
any chance of romance. Anyway, if
you think about it, when you give some-
one candy, you are basically just giv-
ing them food. If my boyfriend wants
to give me food I would much rather
have him buy me a couple chili dogs
from Stop-In. It’s so much more ro-
mantic. Instead of just handing me a
heart-shaped box of chocolates, we can

stroll to Stop-In together, hand in hand
(or have the chili dogs hand delievered
by a pledge dressed as Cupid), ﬂirt
over the nacho cheese, and offer to put
condiments on each other’s food
(“Would you like some mustard,
Pookie?” “Yes, my darling, Pickle Rel-
ish.”) Not only is it more interesting
than chocolates, it’s a whole lot cheaper.

Jewelry. Yet another old stand-by
for those who date people much more
generous than those I have ever gone
outwith (no offense, guys). If you want
to sink some bucks into Valentine’s
Day, this is the way to do it. I myself
could use a new watch or maybe some
gold earrings. Plus since it lasts longer
than ﬂowers, jew-
elry works even bet-
ter than at making
your friends j ealous.
Even this is not a
fool-proof gift. Buy

If you give the

Doctor of Looove. Don’t buy anything
that is red, has heart-shaped eyes, or
has something like “Red Hot Lover”
printed on it or a tea shirt it wears.
That’s just embarassing. Try to buy an
animal that your Valentine especially
likes. Darcey Livingston goes for pan-
das and Ashley LaForge likes trout ﬁsh
(good luck ﬁnding Ashley a stuffed
trout), but more importantly, my favor-
ite animal is the penguin.

Slutty undergarments. Again, this
is a high-risk gift, but if done right, it
could have ample rewards. Listen to
this guidance from the oracle
that is me.

Women: Tempting though it may
be, do not buy
your boyfriend
anything that
can be de-
scribed with
these words:

her a ring and it
might imply way too
much about the state
ofyourrelationship.
There’s also the
quality consider-
ation. If he wears a
Rolex, he might not
like the really cool
Mickey Mouse

wrong kind ofgiﬁfor
Valentines Day, you
are screwed because
your Valentine will
be sure to give you
the perfect giﬁ‘, one
that is funny, origi-

thong, bikini,
gold lamé,
velcro, shiny,
Chippendale’s,
p o l y e s t e r ,
naugahyde, or
Fabio-Wear.
He’s not Brad
Pitt; he’s a nice,
normal guy ina

watch you got him.
Most jewelry for
men is hideous any-
way. Women need
to take care to avoid
gold chains, anything horseshoe
shaped, and especially pinky rings. As
the wise Sarah Gilbert once said, “Never
trust a man who wears a bow tie or
pinky ring.” Exceptions can be made to
the bow tie part (see Dean Manning),
but never to the pinky rings.

Stuffed animals. So many people
buy stuffed animals for Valentine’s
Day, but I really don’t see it. Basically,
you are buying that special someone
something to sleep with when you’re
not around. I personally have never
thought that a great big bear holding a
heart is at all comparable in shape and
feel to anyone I’ve ever dated...maybe
I’ve been lucky. If you insist upon
buying your sweetheart a stuffed ani-
mal, at least follow the advice of the

nal, and romantic.

LETTERS

plaid shirt.
Your chances
of adulation
will be shot
when you start
laughing at him.

Men: As much as you might like to,
don’t buy your girlfriend anything in
any way related to the following: spurs,
tassels, control-top, Wonderbra (which
is an HV anyway), torture lacing,velcro
(it’s universally a mistake), spike heels,
the Lexington Wal-mart, leather, or
French maids. You will only succeed
in irriatting her. You must categori-
cally avoid the lovely creation that I
found in a gas station in Lexington:
women’s panites in the shape of a rose.
How on Earth could something like
that ever make it to the market? Is there
any woman in the world who would
not be underwhelmed at best to get a
pair of polyester/dacron undies folded
into a rose for the day of romance?

How could the executives of the com-
pany that sells things like that to gas
stations possibly think that anyone
would want those things? On the other
hand, let’s imagine for a moment what
kind of person would actually have the
job of CEO of Gas Station Lingerie
Distrubuters of America. Would he be
the sort of guy who has a way with
women? Probably not. Some ﬁnal all-
important advice for both sexes: buy
the correct size. You can insult some-
one by erring in either direction, so
snoop through their underwear drawer
if you must.

Perfume or cologne. As the giver
of perfume of cologne, your job is
simple. Pick out whatever you like,
give it to your sweetheart, say some-
thing like, “I bought this because it is
as seductive as you are, my dearest
love.” Your work is done. As the re-
ceiver of the the gift, your job could be
a bit more difﬁcult: you are now
obligated to wear the stuff. I don’t care
if it smells like Raid — your girlfriend

PAGE 6

thinks it’s sexy, she wants you to wear
it, and by God, you have to wear it.
Suck it up and spray on some Eau de
Vick’s Vap-o-Rub every time he comes
over. If he or she really likes the stuff,
wearing it will eventually work in
your favor.

The card. Remember, even if you
bought him a new car, you still have to
buy a card. But look on the bright side:
this is your chance to redeem yourself
after you bought her a six-pack of beer
from a convenience store at 11:00 at
night. Now all you have to do is come
up with something that is romantic,
funny, sensititve, and sexy all in one
card. Maybe you should just buy a
blank card and add extra pages.

Don’t you all feel better now that
you have the expert guidance of the
Doctor of Looove? Okay, maybe not.
But what can I do? As Matt Groening
would say, “Love is hell.” Relax——
Valentine’s Day only comes once a
year. Have fun, follow my advice, and
stay away from underwear roses.

Loans

In a bind and need cash soon?
Call the Student Emergency Loan
Committee for help. Wewill review
your case and hand you a check.
Call Paul Wright at 463-4360.

Kathekon

Pick up Kathekon applications
and sign up for interview times be-
ginning Monday, February 6. Ap-
plications may be picked up in the
University Center outside of Carol
Caulkins’ ofﬁce, and are due no
later than Wednesday, March 1.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Recruitment

The Student Recruitment Com-
mittee is now accepting letters of
interest for the 1995-96 chairmen
positions. Letters should be submit-
ted to Julia Kozak, Associate Direc-
tor of Admission, no later than
March 3, 1995.

XiPiXi

The sisters of Xi Pi Xi invite all
independent women to Formal
Rush, the week of February 20 -
February 25. The ﬁrst rush function
will be“Beat Poetry Night” on
Monday, February 20, at 9:30 p.m.
in the Game Room of the
University Center.

Christensen overlooks America’s right turn, Kemp 's many virtues

To the editor:

In last week’s edition of The Ring-
tum Phi, Alex Christensen disputed
Mock Convention’s decision to have
Jack Kemp for its Spring Kickoff. It

was his belief that a moderate Repub- ,

lican, such as Massachusetts Governor
William Weld, would have been a bet-
ter choice. Only a Republican who is
“pro-choice, socially moderate, and
ﬁscally conservative,” Mr. Christensen
contends, has any chance of winning in
November. By bringing a moderate
Republican for Spring Kickoff, the
Mock Convention would better repre-
sent the interests of the Party.

On behalf of Mock Convention, I
want to encourage further thought pro-
voking debate. The Republican Party
over the last thirty years has trans-
formed itself into the party of ideas. It
has been on the cutting edge of intel-

lectual thought and its recent successes
could not have occurred without it. In
an attempt to emulate the Republican
Party’s passion for ideas, the Mock
Convention would like to encourage
the entire student body to actively par-
ticipate in debating not only whom the
Party should nominate, but also the
platfonn it should adopt.Although Mr.
Christensen makes a notable contribu-
tion to the great debate that is part of the
Mock Convention, his ideas concem-
ing Kemp and moderate Republicans
are on the fringe of the party. He is
correct in maintaining the nominee must
be “someone with revolutionary ideas.”
The question, though is what type of
ideas. Mr. Christensen proposes adopt-
ing some of the most radical and con-
troversial positions in American poli-
tics. He suggests removing the ban on
gays in the military, hints at ending
opposition to Afﬁrmative Action, and

reversing the party’s pro-life stance.
Unfortunately, Mr. Christensen ne-
glects the fact that America over the
last 15 years has moved signiﬁcantly
to the right. Moderate Republican presi-
dential candidates are dinosaurs in the
current political environment. On ﬁs-
cal issues, as Mr. Christensen correctly
points out, the nation demands lower
taxes, fewer government programs, and
less burdensome regulations. The
American people are also more con-
servative on social issues. They refuse
to allow for public funding of abortion,
call for the abolition of Affirmative
Action, and staunchly support family
values. America is fundamentally a
conservative nation and any candidate
who attempts to ignore this fact is
destined for failure.

Jack Kemp was our choice for the
Spring Kickoff because he played a
signiﬁcant role in developing the Re-

Photos and Interviews
by Darcey Livingston

TALKBACK

 

publican Party into a majority party.
Without the groundwork laid by Jack
Kemp and Ronald Reagan, the Repub-
lican would not have control of both
houses of Congress for the ﬁrst time in
40 years. He transfomied the Party from
one consisting of “lukewarm liberals”
who merely wanted to make sure the
government did not bankrupt the na-
tion into one of “strong conservatives”
who believe in markets, individualism
and entrepreneurship.

Kemp was one of the Republicans to
see the Party as the majority party. By
reaching out to blue-collar workers and
blacks, he helped build the majorities
which led to three consecutive Presi-
dential wins and eventually to control
of Congress.

While Kemp has been instrumental
in helping the Republican Party achieve
its recent successes, he is not without
his faults. As David Frum, author of

DeadRight, has shown, Kemp’s deter-
mination to lower taxes is not matched
by his energy to reduce government.
During his term as HUD Secretary,
Kemp increased its budget from $19.7
million to $28.1 billion in four years.
Frum correctly points out , in a recent
Wall StreetJournal editorial, the lack
of support for a Kemp presidential run
came from a “new determination
among Republicans to cut the federal
government down to size.”

Kemp will not be the nominee be-
cause he has not shown the willingness
to cut government to the degree de-
manded by the mainstream Republi-
can party.

Despite his decision to opt out of
the presidential race, Kemp remains
an important ﬁgure in the Party and
continues to have tremendous inﬂu-
ence on the course of its future. Re-
cently, he fought against Califomia’s

Proposition 187, in an attempt to pre-
vent the party from becoming the “na-
tivist” and “protectionist” party.

The Mock Convention is fortunate
to have a man as knowledgeable and
inﬂuential as Jack Kemp for its Spring
Kickoff. He has been a key player in
developing the modern Republican
Party and will remain an important
ﬁgure in American politics.

While Kemp may not be running
for president, he is still a prominent
American statesman. As Nwional Re-
view put it, “he joins Bryan, Clay, and
(yes) Hamilton on the short list of poli-
ticians who affected the country more
than many of the eminences we cel-
ebrate on President’s Day.”

Andrew J. Olmem
Platform Chairman
1996 Republican Mock Convention

What are your plans for February Break?

.. _ a
Beth Sklaroff,

the fine city of Buffalo.”

 

mo
VA—“Eat, drink, and be merry all in

  

~ 4:
, Wendy Finelli, ’97, Knoxville, TN, Kathleen Quirk,
and Deborah Zollmann, ’97, Longmeadow, MA—‘

 

gr, 0%

our modern dance techniques on the beaches of Cancun!”

’97, St.Louis, MO,
‘We're going to practice

. . . book.”

  

Matt O'Brien, ’98, Brooldyn, NY-
“I ’m planning on getting a cabin in West
Virginia with a couple of friends, doing
a little skiing, and curling up with a good

Amy Fernlcola,

fully go to Florida for a day!”

 

’97
Pequannock, NJ-“l’m going :6
catch up on all my sleep and hope-

ge OS, ,
NY—“I’m going to seek help.”

 

     

' x The Ring-tum Phi, February 10, 1995   i PAGE 7

   
   
  
    
        
  

N
//l /

Fresh FIorid_a
Strawberries

S b 39 Zarris Teeter 3 O0  ;  :1 I i I     I V    Q g     
traw erry on at is    I   I    Fmm
Glaze 16    Yogurt 3  I

The Men’s swim team gets a week off before heading to the Southern States

Championships after break. The men destroyed Mary Washington on Saturday by the
score of 132-73.

 

Hunter

 

       
      
 

Buy One 8 Inch

_ ABOUT 51¢ PER SERVING)
Cherry Pie

  Southern Valentine   I   C “ 
 , Letus
 Iccheagggfg ° 1_ou1 your a.&2‘“"a..t‘“..°..i‘.'.§
_ ',.gn*“u'\<,A"; . easy-to-manage pa ent.
‘ i ‘ J, ‘ _ ~ g  pmbIem.ALLacceptedbasedonab tyto pay.
«vii -;   ‘   . FAST lieu» Is Just A Pun: tau. luv!
, urf”  Calldayorntghtl-305-537-3617, <2~ mi uscoknum
A ,, for your FREE APPLICATION or write :
Nawra, . BOX 545. HOLLYWOOD. FL 33022
i I pp, __, Wg , ,Wg W , r‘f"*‘"“‘"‘‘ “““““ “f"“““* ““ ‘-
,( 5'I‘i35=e<5I55'e'"'s Tb"/V oo ’s”’v‘i;':f: ,6 Sugar  129 MACARONI AU FROMAGE
Milk 1/2aI. DOﬂUtS __ 10oz.    

 

cups macaroni (pinwheels are fun)
cup milk I

cup sharp cheddar (grated)

tbs flour

1/2 stick butter

1 tsp pepper

1 tsp Worcestershire (if you like)
1 tsp salt

UJI-‘I-*l\)

Selected Varieties ' -
Duncan

ing water for 15 minutes or until al
dente. Drain. In a separate pot,
melt butter and mix in flour over low
heat. Then, stir in milk until
smooth. Add cheese, salt, pepper and

 
  
  

Duncan Hines Pe Si Or Die!‘

- Cake Mix e Si

 

Selected A Worcestershire. Stir Well. Smother
varieties 2 Lite, macaroni . . Serves 4 .
ﬁr
I%%%
oz. I

Note: For your nutritional convenience,
Citibank Classic cards are accepted at
over 11 million locations, including
grocery stores.

Freshly Made 18”
Roast Beef 249 Valentine

Sandwich _ ea. Balloons ea.
I. B. C. Cherry

3 I 0 H Sh d  
R:%tarBeer 32?;/3 0 Degrlt1Uia'£:__ ea.I25
Prices Effective Through Feb. 14, 1995

PHUZS In This Ad Effective Wednesday, February 8 Through February 14, 1995
Onlywe Rw.-rve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

  

WE’RE LOOKING our Foii YOU.‘

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
1 Cook macaroni in 5 cups salted, boil-
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I 4 To ‘apply, caII I-800-CITIBANK..

it:__—_.__.—.::_Z.__—__::::.._.._._._1__:_.__.....__..__:::.__:_..___..:——::_.._...:::——.____.__..._.__:..___J
 . ,.».a.._...._A,2'._> A-v."-.1. :

  

Last Week:

BAsi<ETi3Ai.i.- (M) def. Eastern Menonite 94-74; lost to
Randolph Macon

This Week:

SwIMMING- (W) ODAC/Atl. States Championships
BASKETBALL-(M & W) at Roanoke
WRESTI..ING- Va. State Tournament

Ellie Ring-mm lﬂhi

(W) def. Mary Baldwin 50-25; lost to
Emory and Henry 73-50

   

3

PORTS

INDOOR TRACK-(M & W) at Va. Tech Invitational

  

 

 

  

SWIMMING- (M) def. Mary Washington 132-73 V
(W) lost to Mary Washington 152-51
WRES'l'LING- 7th of seven at Apprentice Invitational
PAGE 8 BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK FEBRUARY 10, 1995 n
G  ht Illtb th
Junior guard Jon Coffman tallied basket from Connelly in the paint ll
BY JOSHUA H551-INGA 13 points, and freshman Kelly brought the Generals to within
Phi Staff Writer Dyer added 12. one point at 50-49 with 9:07 to
The win moved the Generals play.
The men’s basketball team to 5-9 in the ODAC, three games Despite strong Generals’ de-
began to rebound from its tough ahead of Lynchburg for the fense that held the Yellow Jack- "
four-game losing streak this conference’s ﬁnal playoff spot. ets to two ﬁeld goals the rest of
week, as it looks ahead to a prob- Monday night brought the the way, Randolph-Macon hit 13
able berth in the Old Dominion Yellow Jackets of Randolph- of their last 14 from the charity
Athletic Conference. Macon to the Warner Center in stripe to pull away for the vic-
The Generals split the week’s what was to be the last home tory. y
ﬁrst two games, beating Eastern game of coach Canfield’s career. Axe had a game high 27 points
Mennonite at the Warner Center Unfortunately, the Generals for the Yellow Jackets. For the
on Saturday but falling to couldn’t make it ahappy ending, Generals, Dyer recorded 14
Randolph-Macon on Monday. falling 72-59. points and 11 rebounds, and
Saturday, the Generals man- Canfield acknowledged the Coffman posted 13 again. Senior ’
aged to break out of their funk by poignant moment, but kept the guard Tyler Duvall also notched ’
slamming the EMU Royals 94- focus on the game. “I really ten points in the effort.
74. appreciate those who went to Despite the loss, which
The Generals came out of the extra effort to say thanks- the dropped the Generals to 9-12
gate early, jumpingoutto anearly student body. I try not to think overall and 5-10 in the ODAC,
17-7 lead behind eight points in about 31 years of coaching; l’ll W&L clinched at leastatie Mon- 1
as many minutes from senior cap- take some time later to reﬂect on day night for the 8th playoff berth
tain Mark Connelly. that. Obviouslylhave mixed feel- by virtue of Lynchburg’s 95-81
The Generals expanded their ings about the game- I wish we loss at Roanoke.
lead to 41-22 by halftime and could have gone out with a win- The Generals had a chance to he nholo
neverlooked back, opening up a but I appreciate the guys who had clinch the tcgnmameint spot hat The men,s basketball team recovered from 8 hertbreaking loss to Randolph_ ’
32 point lead before coasting to no shirts on with my name across Lynchburg ednes ay mg t. Macon on Monday only to watch a large lead against Lynchburg disappear.
'“°:;‘::.: 55352;. Verne cm... ;*::.":..:“§.::::2:.§::‘:;:‘:i.§:'zS 35:::.::*:.::Li.:;::‘:::;::;.‘:2:%    by noose.   a  Asked    
attributed the fast start tothe type W&L trailed 33-29 at half- 55 defeat at the hands of the Gen- V:&L’5i“‘:’lgYt°hit°1‘{tCh§r°e  ,i.r:n:‘::a:;r:t£::nth° last tg‘;:1:St:::%:°;:n3ng:’aLahst few
of game, saying, “We knew it time, and Randolph-Macon’s' erals with a come-from-behind tliogvsasl C enerzislgissef. 0': «l~heGenemlSwei,eledl'syCam Canfield respdnded “we
was going to be a very physical Kurt Axe scoredten points in the 90-85 victory. 3 _ 0"’ “tempts ‘“ 3 ‘"3 Dyer with 26 points and Chris need to keepworking on same of 7
game and wanted to do.some- first ﬁve minutes of the second W&L sprilited out to 1318:-30 m"_‘I‘}1:-H0metSt00ka79_74lead Couzen with 16_ Otis Tucker and the Same baslcthingsnndividuai
thing eaiitrlyh on tn) esttablishnthti hglf to extend the deﬁcit to 45- halfthitiie at lvtahitalgoel e tchrii in the Ovemme before W&L Mikenrestoniedtheiiornetswith execution at both ends of the
ifiiilglayeﬁs girlie clildalitgietiiliieg’ ‘The Generals rallied to close ciitnflie llerzigclstrai 461-40 - run a “me Storming back ‘O tie the 25 and 24 Points respectively‘ ﬂoor’ And we have to believe in
. ' . _ ' t 81 D k C n The Generals take to the road ourselves. We can play with any
Fodnfteellh dgfereml pllggelfs ho 4l(7l;4% wml)  left 03 3 l Eh? G162“ erﬁlfwiﬁlﬁndggfélﬁg tgl?i'I:::0interOvIi1/itah 2:e()rl rcnfalfll to play Roanoke on Saturday and team in the conference if we be- it
score or e. {meta S’. y ‘in y yer’ u erespon 6 ea 0 ’ . . ’ in ﬁnish up the season with atrip to lieve in ourselves, and of course,
Connelly and _]UIl10l' scoring with another three. Lynchburg rallied totiethe game 8- _ Eastern Mennonite we have to hit our shols ,,
leader Cam Dyer’s 14 points. A jumper from Dyer and a at 73 apiece. L)’n°hb“Tgth°11"ghtenedthe ' '
Athletes of the Week ”
._ I V in I . , ....  ........................... ._ 1 V
______ . . )-
at
>
5»
Sandra Holmes Nathan Hottle ’

rile Photo

The women’s basketball team ended and eight game losing skid against Mary

Baldwin before succumbing to Emory and Henry 73-50 on Saturday. They take
on Hollins tonight before heading to Roanoke on Saturday.

Junior Sandra Holmes has been a constant on a
women’sbasketball squad that has suffered through
a tough season.

Last week typiﬁed Holmes solid play. In two
games, she averaged 14 points and 7.5 rebounds as

After staying in the water after water polo
season to swim, Hottle has been one of the most
consistent swimmers for the Generals this season.

Last week Hottle continued to raise his level of 1'
performance ashe set three meet records against

 

 

Women get win to end streak

Generals with a third place ﬁnish. Hull was
victorious in his ﬁrst match before falling in
the semi-finals. He then won his next two
mathces to garner the third place finish.

cluding six Division one programs..

The distance runners stole the show for the
Generals at VMI. Freshman Taylor Shultz placed
third in the mile run with a time of 4:40.5, just

the Generals split with Mary Baldwin and Emory

Mary Washington and take four races overall.

ined the Generals’ shot for estab-
lishing a new school record of
nine victories, the team still fin-
ished the regular season with an

Megan Reese.

Junior Rebekah Prince ﬁnally
picked up a victory for W&L as
she prevailed in the 200-back-

very good team.”

The Generals return to action
this Saturday at Twombly Pool,
as they kick off the postseason by

. and Henry. Hottle will be looked to as a leader in the
By RYAN BREMER Last Friday, the team traveled Lady Generalstravelto Roanoke Against Mary Baldwin’ Holmoslalliod l4noinls upcoming Southern States Championships inlwd ,
to Emory and Henry. The teams as part of a double dip with the and 9 rebounds as lho Generals snannod an eight weeks n _
Phi Staff Writer traded baskets in the opening men. The W&L squad will have game losing sn.eak_ Adding lo the impact of hot Honnps meel records came in the 200 lM, 200
minutes, but the Wasps pro- something to prove against a numbers waslho fnollhal seven ofthe nino hoards back and 200 breast as he helped the Generals
The Generals needed a confi— ceeded to break the game open Roanoke squad that annihilated were offonsivo defeat Mary Washington l32_73_
dence building victory after suf- with a 15-3 run. » the Generals in their last meet- Holmes not up 14 points once again against -I-heteam has 10 days to nronaio for the nnoom_
feringthrough an eight-game los- E&H never looked back after ing. . _ Emory and Henry in a losing effort as the Generals lng Southern States Championships as they look to
ing streak. that, hitting 53 percent of their The Generals will be looking fell 73_50. Ho, six rebounds once again led the build on an already snooossfnl season. f-
In other words, the time was field goals en route to a 73-50 to mete out some revenge since loam
right for the Generals to face a victory. Once again, Holmes led Roanoke continued to press the poilho season’ Holmes is aVoraging12_5 points
winless Mary Baldwin squad at the way forthe Generals, with 14 W&L team full court well after and 79 boards
home. points and 6 boards. the game was decided in their
The Generals clamped down The team gets the beginning last contest. _% 1 ﬁ_j__ 1,
ondefenseandwoneasilyagainst of the week off before facing Head Coach Terri Dadio is
the 0-12 Squirrels, 50-25. Hollins at home tonight. also looking for a big win this .
Sandra Holmes led abalanced The Generals are lookin for Thursday in the Generals’ final W d t t 
attack with 14 points and 9 re— anotherconfidence-boostingvio home game. “Beating Hollins    O ’
bounds. Michelle Hicks tallied tory against Hollins, whom they will give us some conﬁdence as
12 points, tying her career best. have already beaten once this we end the year and provide us i’
Amy Mihal also added to the ear. foundation for the next season t f t S
winning effort with 8 rebounds. y Afterthe Hollins matchup, the that we can build on.”   O   S  
back in the mcet_ Three Generals"400-freestyle .-
By SCOTT BOOKWALTER scphcmcrc Laura Mal-shall relay teamsplacedinthetopfour, ‘
Phi Assistant Sports Editor finished third in the 50-yard but ﬁrst place was occupied by
freestyle at 26.91, a mere .24 of a lVgV5C1’5>9;A;/Eiim Will“! I15 mtijfk
' The effects of swimmin three second behind winner Sarah Kin 0 I . . ’S“ ”l6am ln-
Wresthng Indoor Track meetsin ﬁve days caught ugp with of Mary Washington. g ished 380311! -59 Ofa S€<>0nd back
Wasington and Lee was a little out of its In a weekend that was supposed to showcase the Washington and Lee Sophomore Jen Millei-.’s time at 3:52.51. ' l .‘
league at the Apprentice Invitational. In fact, both the men and women, it was only the men women’s swimming squad last of 58.13 was good enough for Jacobs was satisﬁed with the
the Generals werethe only Divisionlllschool who took to the track. Saturday, as Mary washmgicn secQndin{he100—ffee,and fresh- Generals’ performance despite
present as they ended up seventh out of seven The women’s trip to Dickinson College was dumped the Generals 152.51 at man Megan wicdmalel-’s2;03,25 the setback.
teams. ' snowed out while the men competed at Virginia Twombly Pool. in the 200-free was edged by the “W6 Swam W61L_” She fe-
Junior heavyweight Robert Hull led the Military Institute against 12 other schools, in- Despite the dcfcai, which ru- paccscumg 2:00.92 of MwC’s marked. “Mary Washington isa s

The football All-American leads the Gen- three seconds off the race winner. impressive 8-2 mark stroke with a time of 2;14_57_ hosting the Old Dominion Ath-
erals witharecord of 12 wins and sixlosses on W&L’s 4x800 relay team of Todd Burkey, After smahing Hollins 144- “Rebekah had a real good letic Conferencel Atlantic States 7»
the season. Grant Cowell, Pat Williamson, and Brad Paye 90 on January 31, and trouncing swim,” Jacobs acknowledged. Championships.‘
The Generals also got fourth place finishes took fourth place. Dickinson 116-87 the next night, senior Susan Fisher per- The following‘ weekend,_
from Rob deClerk in the 142 pound class, Lea Williamson placed fifth in the 800 meter run, the Generals ﬁnally ran out of formed admh-ably as well, as she W&_L_trave_ls to Davidson, NC to
Abercrombie at 167 pounds,and Colin Looney while Jason Callen and Will Olson each set gas against a tough Mary Wash- ouiswam thc ccmpcililon in her participate ll'I.Ille Southern States
at 190 pounds. personal bests in the 3000 meter run. ington squad on Saturday, win- conquestofthe 200-butterﬂy,and Championships.‘ ,,
W&L hosts the Virginia College Division The distance squad was notthe only part of the ping only two races, as she also placed third in the Jacobs mentioned that ‘N18
State Championships thisweekend. Fiveteams W&L attack to shine, however. Harris Morrison “we were definitely tired; 200-individual medley. Generalspossess lofty a_spir.iiions
will be competing against the Generals as placed ﬁfth inthe pole vaultwitha height of 13"6' probably more mentally than Mary Washington capped off heading into the hrs: in-.»
Hampden-Sydney, Gallaudet, Longwood, and Hayne Hodges reached the semi-ﬁnals of the Physically,” head Coach Kilo the triumph by winning both rc_ postseason l0lll'll:llllt‘lll.\‘. _
Newport News Apprentice School, and Nor— 55 meter dash. Also, freshman Omar Moneim set Jacobs mcmloned. lays, MwC’s 400-medley relay “Our 't‘Xpt‘i‘l:ll1i\lll.\‘ _«.~,.~ui_t~_ lll ‘
folk State all come to Lexington . a career best in theshot put at just under 40 feet. Mary wasninglon dashed out lonmvs 4:lg_32 hoslodlho 423 l go ml» l.‘ mu will or ml-m," ,1‘.-.
K - J to a quick start and never looked posted by W& I ,. ~‘~‘l“"l‘«‘V~l

 

2

9a/nay @/um

ﬁe  em geloaaty 26} 1.9.9.5

One Lexington Under A Groove

By Richard Weaver

Special to the Phi

They call him the Presi-
dent of Funk, and for more
than three decades George
Clinton has deﬁned the cut-
ting edge of music. As the
leader of Parliament,
Funkadelic, and groups
combined, he’s topped the
charts with such classics as
“Up for the Down Stroke,”
“Chocolate City” and “One
Nation Under A Groove.”

Clinton has toured all
overthe world and on March
2, he’ll be in Lexington, on
business. Parliament isn’t a
bunch of blow-dried croon-
ers —— it’s a crazy collection
of souls from all over the
galaxy, on stage to perform
viaThe Mothership Connec-
tion.

With his feathers, braids,
and face paint, George
Clinton is deﬁnitely not your
average singer; in his songs,
he says he wants to “do it to
you in your earhole.”

I spoke with the presi-
dent several days ago about
the state of the union:

I understand you were
recently on vacation —
where did you go?

The Virgin Islands. It was
the first time I had a chance
in 8 or 9 years to go ﬁshing.
I caught a 75-pound dolphin
and 50-pound wahoo, and
we ate that. They tried to
smoke the dolphin and do a
skin mount but it was a little
too old for that s“**; he
seemed prehistoric. Bootsy
[Collins] and I used to go
ﬁshin,’ mainly so you could
just chill out and forget
about everything.

I also went to St. Thomas
— it’s like 1967 or 1968
there. You go and hang out
in the parks and the com-
munes; there are the same
kind of vibes.

Goats and s*** walk in
the street, but don’t you blow
your horn at them. They
don’t go for that s“”. Ev-
erything moves slow there
— it’s real laid back there;
thereain’tnobodylivingfast
there. They thrill about that

Sit!‘

What have you been
working on recently?

l’ve done some work for
Sony with Dallas Austin. We
just did something for the
Black Panther soundtrack.
The movie’s about the be-
ginning of the Black Pan-
thers. Mario Van Peebles is
producing it; it will be out
next month. Austin got all
of the soulful girls he could
ﬁnd to sing on this record —
all the divas — singing
their asses off. It sounded
pretty good.

Real soon I’m going to
do some stuff with Pearl Jam
and Rage Against the Ma-
chine. I’ve been wanting to
work with Eddie [Vedder]
for a long time; we met at
the Rock and Roll Hall of
Fame. He’s one of the few
musicians I met who’s truly
a spacechild —- he’s got it
authentically. You look at
him on stage and he looks
like he’s out of his mind and
he’s got a gallon of whiskey
in him. He is actually a good
singer, damn, he could sing
pop standards if he was into
that. When I heard him, I
said ‘This motherf"“"“"can
really sing.’

Haveyouthoughtabout
getting more involved in
movies?

Just slightly here and
there — I want to do The
Mothership Connection
movie. For now I do them
[movies] in context with
what we‘re doing. If it’s me
being able to be me, I can do
it better, but with how I look,
it can confuse some people.
In PCU, it was like Otis Day
and the Knights in Animal
House — we were able to be
ourselves. They actually
should have used the foot-
age for a concert ﬁlm like
Purple Rain. The movie
would have had a bigger hit.
It would be one of those
things you would rent for-
ever.

We had such a party -—
we played live on the set; the

people loved the show. They
people really did jam and
the dialogue was going along
while we were playing. But
the editing of a movie is like
remixing a record — the
people who remix are a little
differentthanthepeoplewho
remix records. They ought
to remix movies. A good
movie to remix would be
Grafﬁti Bridge [the sequel
to Purple Rain]. If they
would have kept the s"‘"
the way they had it, it would
have been ﬁne. But they
f""“" it up. It was a nice
movie, but it turned out
pretty lame. Those good-
guy, bad-guy things — they
always work. Star Wars was
regular cowboys and Indi-
ans.

How did the closing of

Paisley Park Records and
Prince’s troubles with
Warner Brothers Records
affect you?
[C I i n to n
was signed
with Pais-
ley Park].

We still
don’t know
what hap-
pened with
the hit
record [Hey
Man, Smell
MyFinger].
It was sell-
ing like a
"Mill!
and wewent
to work one
day and the
record com-
pany doors
w e r e
locked. I
don’tknow.
He [Prince]
p r o b a b I y
knows him-
self. Usu-
ally the tab-
Ioids would
be all over
this s“ * ' ,
but they haven't said s““
about this.

When they didn’t talk
about it, it lead me to think it
wasdeeper.Thiswholething
chased him [Prince] back un-
derground. The fans were
trying to take him there any-
way. He doesn’t have to be
pop creation.

This way you call the 800
numberto get his new record
and you appreciate it more
that way. We got a 900 num-
ber funk thing to get rare
records, like DopeDogs. It's
the best record we’ve done
in 20 years.

Do you think it’s rac-
ism that Prince is dealing
with?

Hell, yeah, it goes with-
out saying. It’s part of the
thing. He might have for-
gotten it because he was a
pop star. It was rudely
thrown in his face. They took
my record out of print com-
pletely. He had to be having
some kind of serious s"**.
They [Warner Bros.] were
mad because he fulﬁlled his
contract but they didn’t like
how he did it.

You've spoken before

about a phenomenon
called the New World
Odor. What is that?

it’s part of the vibe—the
thing now is to have as many
conﬂicts as possible. People
don’t get it; it’s not just ordi-
nary conﬂicts like black and
white. You’re more apt to

get pro- or anti-abortion to
go crazy or gay and straight
or animal rights people. You
probably would get them to
ﬁght over each other. All of
these weird phenomena
scare the s"”" out of the
people. People say, ‘Kook
here’ or ‘kook there.’ Same
thing in the record business;
when you get to be in real
business you get to be a
kook— you don’t want to
change.

All of it is a big corpora-
tion, but whatever happened
to ourselves, we still sell out
even without a hit record. It
tookalongtime foroneoom-
pany to ﬁgure out something
we already knew. The rest
of the record companies kept
making us make demos. You
can’t hurt my feelings with
that, but the people around
me are screaming about how
I should have to do demos.
My attitude is this: F“ * me.

I won’t
live off
just one
record. I
want to
m a k e
sure my
S It I! lit is
g o o d
enough
to over-
come it.
T h e
w h o I e
thingbe-
hind the
bad vibe
is to
m a k e
p e o p I e
ﬁght so
they [the
govern-
m e n t ]
can go
and de-
clare
Martial
L a w .
T h e
W o r l d
Trade
C e n t e r
indictments are a good ex-
ample — it’s done to an-
tagonize somebody. It’s not
just to get even; it’s just to
piss you off.

The media can push it in
such away as to make people
react. There is a dynamic to
get people to do s‘". The
ﬁrst ghetto law is to play the

desires and not get hurt.

They try to make the
whole rapthingasanexcuse
for spouse abuse. They try
to say that anger is coming
from the artist, but artists
only reflect the time; they
only paint pictures that are
already there. The new thing
is to put the deﬁnitions on a
negative standpoint. All of
those talk shows get out there
and start interpreting and
they give no one else a
chance to talk. That s"‘ is
gossip. Rap gets to some
earholes too.

While they’re macking
and gawking, my one thing
is that I had to see it used
against the cops - they got it
just as bad as the kids got it.

.When it comes time to train

them, they can brainwash
them to protect the system,
not necessarily the people.
They’re afraid from the be-
ginning, and they don’t pay
them enough money to die
for that s***.

The cops have been set
up too, with their training of
brotherhood They’re over-
seers and are responsible for
dealing with it in front of the
TV.

How do you feel about
performing in a town they
called “The Graveyard of
the Confederacy?” —
Robert E. Lee and Stone-
wall Jackson are buried
here.

No s* * *, l;ee’s buried on
campus? God****, that’s
deep. That whole time pe-
riod is getting ready to be
repeated. I realize how much
history is manipulated, with-
out a care. The constitutional
patriots in Middle America
will have a rude awakening.

All of the people in the
South — they’re the ones
I’m scared of. They need to
know they don’t have to tear
the place up; just vote the
motherf"**"s out. In
Middle America it will be
chaotic because they will
play it as a white thing. They
got the ability to spin s""".

I’m glad we’re getting a
chance to play colleges
again. At least there you can
trade ideas because s**"'
changes daily. I’m
glad we’re playing
through Lexington.

Join ﬁeorge Clinton and the P-iunk All-Stars Thursday night at the Pavilion

We eﬁah/—/at/r 2%; -906/ma/lg 23} 1.9.95

26/WWW

@/tau

5’

Table for two: A Fancy Dress dining guide

g at, area, em...
egiieﬁaloy/ta/1% é°¢ﬁ‘tm g

No Fancy Dress date is complete without
a great dinner. Although dining options in
the area abound, it can be difﬂcult to ﬁnd
just the right place for your date. It can also
be difficult to know just what to expect
when dining in an unfamiliar location. To
help ease the decision, we offer the follow-
ing dining guide, which includes options for
every budget and desired atmosphere.
Bon appetite!

Charlottesvllle

‘Boar’s Head Inn, Route 250 West, 1.5
miles off Route 29 (804) 296-2181 The
Boar’s Head Inn offers two different dining
rooms. The Old Mill Room has a colonial
style and was originally, you guessed it, an
old mill. The garden room has an airier
atmosphere. The Boar’s Head Inn is an
excellent place for fine dining. It is one of
only twelve restaurants in Virginia given a
four diamond rating by AAA. The cuisine
is American with a European ﬂair, expertly
prepared by a chef trained in Switzerland. If
you’d like to try one of the house specialties,
the cider-marinated pork loin served with
homemade barbecque sauce and stone grits
is sure to please. Reservations are required
and coat and tie are recommended.

‘The Ivy Inn, 2244 Old Ivy Road, across

from Ivy Gardens, 1 mile from the Univer-
sity of Virginia (804) 977-1222. If you are
looking for a special, romantic place to have
your Fancy Dress dinner, The Ivy Inn is the
perfect choice. This restaurant is located in
a two-hundred year old building that was
once a toll house and is now a full-service
restaurant. The ambiance features ﬁreplaces
and decorations in a unique mix of nouveau
and traditional elements. House specialties
include she-crab soup and crab cakes. En-
trees cost between $13.50 and $24.00. The
Ivy Inn offers a full service bar and an
extensive wine list featuring Virginia wines.
Dress is ranges from “casual with taste”
to fonnal.

°The C&O Restaurant, 515 East Water
(804) 971-7044. This French Country res-
taurant offers a formal dining room that is,
“A really nice place for a special date.” The
menu of the C&O Restaurant changes every
day because of the chef’ s dedication to
serving the freshest possible food, featuring
local cuisine suchasrabbit, trout,vegetables,
and seafood from Virginia. All food is

heavily sauced in the French tradition. Be-
fore your meal, try the hot and cold soups
and the excellent homemade bread. The
desserts are reportedly wonderful, thanks to
the pastry chef on duty. The formal dining
room also features an impressive selection
of cheeses. If you’d like a glass of wine with
your meal, you will surely be pleased with
the C&O Restaurant’s award-winning wine
list. The setting is intimate and quiet with,
“...nothing to distract you from your partner
but the food.” The price of entrees in the
fonnal dining room ranges from $22 to $26
for ala carte meals or a prix ﬁxe ﬁve course
meal for $38.00.

Lexington

‘Maple Hall, Route 11 and 81 463-4666.

Maple Hall offers fine dining and a wine list
with a two cluster rating. The atmosphere is
cozy, seating only 50-60 people, in a coun-
try inn setting featuring a fireplace and an
airy patio. The menu includes lobster, scal-
lops, veal, beef tips, and some game. Be
sure to save some room for the exceptional
desserts. The price
of entrees is about
$25.00 per person.
Reservations are
recommended and
coat and tie
is preferred.

°Willson-Walker
House, 30 North
Main Street 463-

3020. This elegant
restaurant offers tra-
ditional American
food with a creative
touch. The Willson-
Walker House is lo-
cated in a restored townhouse that is an
historic landmark that is currently being
redecorated. The menu includes fresh fish,
New York strip streaks, and vegetarian
meals. Veal is considered a house specialty.
All the desserts are homemade. The full bar
features Virginia and California wines. An
entree costs between $11 and $18.50.
°TheInn at Union Run, Union Run Road,
Route 674,63-9715. The Inn at Union Run
is considered by many people to be the best
restaurant in Lexington. This restaurant is
located on a babbling brook in a circa 1883
farmhouse furnished with Victorian-Ameri-
can antiques. Some examples of the Ameri-
can cuisine with international ﬂair served at
the Inn at Union Run are country pate, fruits
of the sea with homemade fettucini, and
shrimp orlean served over Hungarian rice.
The food and the wines (featuring Virginia,
California, French, and Australian wines)
are paired together so diners can select the
right combination. Homemade desserts

Parltzz-vous Francois?

available include a bittersweet chocolate
terrine nicknamed “Death by Chocolate.”

‘ll Palazzo, 24 North Main Street 464-
5800. II Palazzo serves wonderful Italian
cuisine. Try the Bianca Pizza as an
interstingly different appetizer. Some tempt-
ing dishes include the spicy penne aribiate,
homemade pizza, calzones, and chicken
parrnigana. Wine, beer, and mixed drinks
are available. ll Palazzo features good food,
a pleasant atmosphere, and friendly service
at reasonable prices.

°Hunan Garden, EastNelson Street 463 -
3330. The Hunan Garden has gotten mixed
reviews from students, but if you want Chi-
nese food in Lexington, this is the place to
go. The Hunan Garden features a variety of
Chinese foods. Enjoy your dinner with one
of their mixed drinks, such as the famous
volcano, a huge ﬂaming beverage. After-
wards, you and your date can compare for-
tunes to see how the rest of your weekend
together will go. Dress is informal.

°Spanky’s, 110 South Jefferson Street,
463-3338. Spanky’s offers an intimidating
array of sandwiches costing between $5 and

$10.00. Spanky’s features a
full bar with exciting mixed
drinks. The appetizers are
worth trying, espcially the
California potato skins. Sun-
daes and other ice cream
dishes make up the dessert
menu. Best of all, Spanky’s
sells PEZ dispensers.
‘The Palms, 101 West
Nelson Street 463-7911. The
Palms features a variety of
sandwiches, salads, and ap-
petizers. Their Beta Burger is
one of the best in Lexington.
Entrees that include beef, sea-
food, poultry, and pasta range in price around
$13.00.Also, as anyone not living under a
rock is well aware, The Palms is the place to
go for mixed drinks.

‘The Raven and Crown, 16 LeeAvenue,
464-8474. The Raven and Crown is a relax-
ing place for a Saturday night FD dinner.
Breakfast food is served all day, from om-
elets to pancakes to French toast. The menu
also includes a wide range of sandwiches
and desserts. The full bar includes an im-
pressive variety of beers. Live music enter-
tains patrons every Thursday, Friday, and
Saturday night. Prices run between $3.25
and $4.95 for sandwiches and between $7.95
and 12.95 for other entrees.

°TheSouthern Inn, 375 South Main Street
463-3612. The Southern Inn features Ameri-
can food, including Southern American Cui-
sine such as pan-fried chicken and some
Greek food. The crab cakes are a house
specialty. The Southern Inn offers a full bar
featuring Virginia wines. Their prices have

been recently reduced and average about
$9.95 for an entree. Reservations are
not necessary.

‘Harbs’ Bistro, 19 West Washington
Street 464-1900. Harbs’ is a cafe with an
ecclectic, funky setting. Jazz music adds to
the comfortable decor. Harbs’ offers a vari-

ety of sandwiches, salads, and pastas with -

daily specials. Beer, wine, and mixed drinks
are served, as well as specialty coffee drinks
such as espresso and capuccino. Dress is
casual and reservations are not needed.

Lynchburg

°Sachiko’sInternationalRestaurant, 126
Old Grave Mill Road, (804)237-5655. As
the name of this three-star estaurant sug-
gests, Sachiko’s International Restaurant
serves international cuisine. The menu in-
cludes fresh steaks, seafood, veal, lamb,
quail, and some exotic meats such as alliga-
tor. The knowledgable staff will be happy to
assist you in choosing a wine from thier
extensive wine cellar. White linen table-
cloths, low lights, and candles on the table
make this a romantic place to take a
special date.

Roanoke

°La Maison, 5732 Airport Road (703)
366-2444. La Maison offers refined dining
in the intimate setting of a house built in
1929, featuring several small and medium
sized rooms. The menu features seafood,
steaks, rack of lamb, and food with an
international ﬂair, from French-inﬂuenced
cuisine to Brazilian dishes. Especially rec-
ommended is the chicken with raspberry
sauce. La Maison also features marvelous
desserts. The manager

suggests the Reeses’ Peanut Butter Pie-—
“That and two cups of espresso and you’re
ready to go!” The price for an entree run
from $9.95 to $22.95. A special dinner for
two costs $59.95. Reservations are recom-
mended. Dress ranges from casual to for-
mal.

Staunton

°TheBeIIe Graelnn, 515 West Frederick
Street (downtown) 886-5151. This old Vic-
torian inn is a warm, cozy place to have an
excellent dinner. The food at the Belle Grae
Inn has won a four diamond rating by the
A. The menu incorporates a variety of
dishes such as duck, quail, tenderloin beef,
seafood, and pasta. Vegetarians will enjoy
the linguine with smoked scallops, black
olives, and sun-dried tomatoes. The Belle
Grae Inn offers a full bar and homemade
desserts. Prices for an entree range from
$13.95 to $21.95. Reservations and coat
and tie are preferred.

AV I I F I‘ R :11:

2 Bedroom Student Apartment
Abovo Alvin Donnlo
IMII-Ilro at Alvln Donnlo
463-5333

4

C o o k y ou r
Q3?
, 

Any special French occasion calls for the
ultimately sensuous French experience: an
expensive, rich, freshly-cooked meal. The
ingredients must be carefully chosen and
handled; the directions must be followed
precisely, but with a creative ﬂair that will
make the meal your own. I have crafted a
meal that will send even the snottiest Pari-
sian into foolish slobbering paroxysms of
culinary joy. (Don’t worry, I tested this
meal on the pickiest eater I know. His exact
words of praise and adulation were, “That
was good”) Eat in good health and teach
your date the phrase, Le repas était délicieux.

Homard aux Crevettes Jaune avec Riz
Citron

(Lobster tail and shrimp with a yellow
cream sauce and lemon rice)

2 lobster tails

1/2 lb large shrimp (about 10)

2 shallots, minced

2 tsp. minced fresh ginger root,(next to
the shallots at Harris Teeter)

pinch saffron threads (about 1/8 tea-
spoon)

1/2 cup dry white wine

1-2 cups seafood stock (use chicken or
vegetable broth or call me ifyou cannot find
seafood stock)

1 cup heavy cream

own

unsalted butter (not margarine)

1/2 cup white rice (basmati works best
here)

1 tbsp. fresh-squeezed lemon juice

1 tsp. zest of lemon (grate the lemon peel

’ so that just the yellow part is used)

°In a small saucepan, melt about 2 tsp.
butter and add one of the shallots; cook over
medium heat until translucent, about 4 min-
utes. Add rice, lemon juice, and lemon zest,
and toss until rice is coated with butter; add 1
1/2 cups cold water and bring to boil. Lower
heat to medium low and cover; simmer 20
minutes, until liquid is absorbed. Set aside.

°In a sauté pan, melt 1 tbsp. butter and add
remaining shallot and ginger; cook over me-
dium heat until shallots are tender, about 4
minutes. Add saffron, wine, and 1 cup sea-
food stock; cook over medium heat until most
of the liquid is evaporated. Add more seafood
stock and reduce again until you have about 2
tbsp. liquid; add cream and reduce
heat to very low; stir until heated and
slightly thickened.

-Rinse and peel shrimp and lobster tails;
cook in boiling salted water and remove when
cooked through. The shrimp will take 1-2
minutes (take care not to overcook shrimp)
and the lobster, 5-10 depending on the size of
the tails.

°On two heated plates, heap 1/2 cup of rice
in center. Set a lobster tail on each heap;
surround with 5-7 shrimp. Pour cream sauce
over lobster and rice mounds so that plate is
mostly covered.

I accompanied this meal with button mush-
rooms sautéed in butter; another good French
accompaniment would be fresh steamed as-

g urmet

ﬁe .%;evg-/ma $54 .%£ma»lVy 23, 1.9.95

paragus (cook in a large covered saucepan
with about 1 inch of water for about
8 minutes).

For dessert, the ubiquitous French ﬁn-
ish is creme brulée. I am far too snobby to
translate this; really good creme brulée
does not fit any translation, and this, pre-
pared carefully enough, is the best in
the world.

Creme Brulée

3 egg yolks (make sure you remove
absolutely all of the whites)

1 cup heavy cream

2 tbsp. granulated sugar

2 tsp. vanilla (not imitation; if you can
get a vanilla bean, it would work better;
simply split the bean in two and scrape the
seeds into the mixture when the directions
call for vanilla)

brown sugar

-Over low heat, cook the cream and 1
tbsp. granulated sugar until the mixture is
almost to the boiling point but do not boil.
Remove from heat immediately.

‘In small bowl (I use a 2-cup Pyrex
measuring cup) beat yolks and remaining
tbsp sugar briskly.

°Very slowly add cream to yolks,
whisking constantly and briskly. If you
add the hot cream too quickly, you will
have scrambled eggs and cream. When all
the cream is incorporated, mix in
the vanilla.

_ °Strain mixture into another bowl (this
is where the pour spout on the measuring
cup comes in handy) through a very fine
wire mesh or a paper towel (Bounty works
best). This takes patience, but is well

French meal

worth the effort.

°Pour strained mixture into 4 4-ounce
ceramic custard cups. The best ones for this
recipe are the true French creme brulée
cups, which are about 1 inch high and about
4 inches in diameter. These are, however,
almost impossible to find, so the traditional
custard cups which are much taller and
fatter will work fine. Bake on a cookie sheet
onto which you have poured cold water
which comes about halfway up the sides of
the cups (you can also use a deeper baking
pan) at 350° for about 20 minutes;
if the surface begins to brown,
remove immediately.

Cool and refrigerate for at least 4 hours,
preferably overnight.

‘When ready to serve, turn your oven to
broil and spread about 1-2 tbsp. brown sugar
over the top of the creme brulées. Broil
close to heat until brown sugar bubbles and
caramelizes. Remove and serve with
a spoon.

These recipes and others will appear in
my soon—to-be published cookbook, which
Betsy Green thinks I should call Cooking
with Alcohol;Anne is holding out for Spiri-
tual Cooking, and it may also be called The
Single Entertainer. All recipes are copy-
righted and may not be reprinted under
any circumstances.

And, if the recipes defeat you, check out
our dining guide in this supplement or call
me, and, for an outrageous fee, I will cook
these recipes or anything else under the sun
(I am especially good at French, Mexican
and Cajun cooking and put alcohol in every-
thing). Enjoy and a votre sante’!

Inrtepenctents offerect option for FD entertainment

§ .1951 9:11/3/Ia 59’/rant/e?ae

It’s getting to be that time...the traditional week of Fancy
Dress Ball is right around the corner! So what plans have
you made? Naturally, thanks to SAB and the FD Steering
Committee, we will be entertained both Thursday night,
when George Clinton and the P-Funk All-Stars comes to the

Pavilion, and Friday night, when the ball begins at 9:30. So
what about the rest of the time? There will be fraternity
parties, fraternity parties, and...well...more fraternity par-
ties, most of which are generallyopen later in the evening.
But there is still the problem of dinner. Naturally, there
many wonderful resturants in town and in the surrounding
areas (see the dining guide, page 8, for more information).
And most fraternities will have formal dinners of their own.
So where does that leave those who are not Greek? This
year, there is an option. 9

Thanks to Washington and Lee’s wonderful new Direc-

Mais ie
dois
recon-
na itre
que
votre
cuisine
était
superbe

(But I
must say.
your
cooking
was
magniﬁ-
cent)

pasta

Fancy Dress Specials

76 paéagga

Lobster Fra Diavlo - $13.99
Lobster tail with shrimp served over angel
hair pasta in Fra Diavlo sauce

Chicken Marsala - $9.25
Chicken breast in marsala wine sauce with
mushrooms or cheese and side of angel hair

’ Both served with salad and garlic bread

Group Take-out_Dinners - You can
serve your_own dinner, completewith
salad, garlic bread & dessert. You
can feed a

as little as $5.0 a
least 24 hours in a Vance, and see
what we can do for you.

tor of Student Activities, Michelle Richardson, junior John
LeCamp, and FLC member Andrew Ruppar, there will be
a formal dinner heldfor hte independent students of W&L.
The event will take place at the Delt House on March 3.
There will be a nominal fee of $20, for which independents
and their dates can enjow a night of fine cuisine, catered by
Signature Foods. The event will begin with “mocktails” at
6:30, and appetizers will be served, and dinner will be at
7:30. The event is expected to be wonderful, and should be
even more so if lots of people attend. More information can
be gained from Michelle Richardson.

rou of your friends for
erson. Call us at

10% OFF on «an.
rnucy mess omens

NO COUPON NEEDED

UNIVERSITY FLORIST

165 SOUTH MAINHSTREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
(703) 463-6080

3% 5?v;g-em 5%; .%Jaaa4y 23, 19.95

g

Q/woo

Fancy Dress Committee Chaumen and Members
Chair: Ioe Framptom
Vice-Chair: Daniel Pelton
Auditor: Kathy Boozer

Memorabilia
Chairman: Marisa Ritter
Members: Leslie Ratz, Stephanie Corbin
Construction
Chairman: Leo Deeanini
Logistician: Douglas Burns
Members: Iarrod Aldom, Tory Noto, Phil Iordon
Publicity
Chairman: Meredith Brown
Member: Sarah Tune, Ashley Simon
Invitations:
Chairman: Carrie Baker
Member: Margaret Pitts
Playbill:
Chairman: Richard Weaver
Members: Catherine Bassett, Dan Odenwald, Gamble Parks
Decorations:
Decorations Co-ordinator: Ashley Bell
Small Gym Chairman: Kim Davis
Members: Iill Herman, Melissa Courson
Balcony Chairman: Sally Ball
Members: Ashley Short, Amy Bohutinsky
Entrance/Hallway Chairman: Kylie Edwards
Members: Todd Dembo, Ainsley Fisher
Big Gym Northwest Corner Chairman: Alison Oncacre
Members: Alex Fennell, less Graff D
Big Gym Southwest Corner Chairman:]enny Queen
Members: Ioanna Munson, Ienni Robinson
Big Gym Northeast Corner Chairman: Meg Kinder
Members: Dana Letson, Shannon Foster
Big Gym Southwest Corner Chairman: Ann Howard
Members: Caroline Connoly, Ben Vanderver
Entertainment Co-ordinator: Dan Mann

5

6

Clinton appeal

55)? din/ne eﬂéwttlamtl W
.%MM 9%. 57/a/4 ﬁlly:

George Clinton and the P-Funk All-Stars
will come to the stage of the Student Activi-
ties Pavilion on Thursday, March 3, to per-
form their “free-form funk symphony” for
W&L students.

The band, known for outrageous cos-
turning and showy performances, is sure to
bring excitement to the Pavilion. Clinton
thrives on audience participation, allowing
the level of the show to rely on the crowd’s
enthusiasm. According to RollingStone“lt’s
not hard to get caught up in the fever of a P-
Funk show. Everything from the band mem-
bers’ costumes to the deep, uncut jam-ori-
ented funk the purvey invites abandon.”

Eric Scott, who saw the band last
weekend at Buffalo State College in New
York said, “George Clinton is fantastic. He

5 to all tastes  

and his P-Funk All-Stars put on one of the
groovingest shows I have ever seen...it is
unlike any other group, mainly because of
the huge amount of people on stage at one
time.” According to Scott, at any time, there
is at least one bass, two to four guitars, a
drummer, and assorted singers; there is also
a compliment of horn players on many
songs, who add to the mix considerably.

Frank Moscowitz, who also saw P-Funk
last weekend at Buffalo State, describes the
atmosphere of the show by saying, “This
concert experience was definitely [new] for
me...the stage presence at the show was
different...it was more casual and had its
share of movement.”

P-Funk pleases every musical tastes,
according to Scott, from “deadheads like
myself,” to rap, reggae, and rock fans, all of
whom were present at the show he and
Moscowitz attended. The show, which will
officially kick off FD Weekend promises to

, be fun and exciting for all in attendance.

Moscowitz called the show “a thoroughly
enjoyable experience,” and Scott said it was
“definitely one I’d recommend catching.”

We .9?o;z/-mm $5; gammy 23, 1.9.95

B0 Tl10r>pe lo plot; lliiml conseculive 

Bo Thorpe and his orchestra will play
Fancy Dress for the third year in a row.
Thorpe, a native of Rocky Mount, North
Carolina, has moved all around the country,
and held a great variety of jobs. Thorpe
worked as an investigative reporter, soldier,
and communications consultant to the Fed-
eral Government; he even ran for Congress
before ﬁnding his calling in music and found-

ing his orchestra in 1978. Thorpe and his
orchestra play everything from Gershwin to
“Disco Duck Revisited”, creating an eclec-
tic blend of new and old. The band's music
is very dancable, and promises to keep feet
tapping. Thorpe has played at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the
United States Military Academy, and the
last four Presidential Inaugural Balls.

The Hing-tum Phi
Travel the globe
with us
every Friday,
seiree nr etudiez

Fan cy Dress Con cert

Thursday, March 2, 1995
Student Activities Pavilion

jancy Ere./5.4 ﬂamed: ./4 jip own memory o[)ane

&/mu...
.7....,£D..u

.1», ED.»

8.! my ﬁat-6., .Lu..I.-...; ../../:1, ml 5.1....-1,
wm-.¢-««-.- A-«.-w -/A-.». 
CiL..'a/,4-.ne.a

3./m..,.. Au...-..,/4,.../u. 

€.L.;..lA....-...

c’...4./.z:..;.xw

&.,. C’.L...L. g...§" 0,...’
«J ', L. L
,4 ' rm’;

m$uuun

-r‘-1'-iv)

1 a.-..... Cut ./a. C1.-.. (1..
3- .SL.l!iaL/~£,lLnJ4

IA.

w‘i.“.‘f.‘;£“f; ‘*3:

P Jib more
&/Km.../4.4;

Camim/J 7/ma
Kolluul

I934
I935
I936
I937
I938
I939
I940
I94!
I942
I943

I947
I948
I949
I950
I95!
I952
I953
I954
I955
I956
I957
I958
I959
I960
I96I
I962
I963
I954
I965

(1.... ./a,..,,4a...«...w
5' ./u...
Q... £’6..l.4l..J£3.»/./:57...
MW

.JC.1...l,.‘b.-J,
.l6..,2....I.,U.G..um...l:_(,’...
.,47%,h.It£.77l..bC.lGu..:. I86!
1...,.‘2)»u A. ‘llL0WS'.ﬁ
auyuu‘J b qr
I944-I946 . ‘"8.

I966
I967
I968
I969

I970
I971
I972
I973
I974
I975
I976
I977
I978
I979
I980
I98I
I982
I983
I984
I985
I986
I987
I988

' I989

I990
I99!
I992
I993
I994

- 4
m.,.4.,z:¢.%,,~:Z~?;z. I

O.
.z4.‘D£u-u-J '
7/!/.:Ia.,A»BL.-l£'..£.:_»4

;?tf::5%/"~’°'§ '
.,Z2§J_ ,3: ./.a,.z...,...

For your 1995 Fancy Dress TUXEDOS
- Rent for $48.00 Basic
  $52.00 Full Dress
-Buy for $265
(And Never Have To Rent Again)

 COLLEGE TOWN 

111 W. NELSON ST.

463-2731

*1 -

J

We 5i’a;z/-/mu u; .%.£»mmy 23, 1995

Librarian

1%!’  zﬁdll/IIIII/M/it

ﬂaﬂtaﬂ  o/I/Wt §

In 1895, Annie Jo White was appointed
university librarian at Washington and Lee.
Before her retirement in 1928, her contribu-
tion to the university and its students went
beyond increasing the number of hours
that the library was open and expanding
its collection.

In 1907 “Miss Annie Jo”, as White was

Fancy Dress persists

€933 J5/ei/ﬂ ([1) ‘mm!

2%!‘ e7)/a// ”)/"ti/01 §

Washington and Lee is doubtless a school
that has a love affair with tradition; one of
the most cherished traditions is certainly the
Fancy Dress Ball.

As the 88th Ball nears, many compari-
sons will be made to previous galas, even
those that took place long before the time of
any present student.However, comparisons
are difficult when considering the number
ofchanges the W&L Fancy Dress has un-
dergone since its origin.

Eventhis long-standing tradition has had
many facelifts.Fancy costumes were the
normal attire decades before black tie. In
1969, the event suffered its greatest change,
brieﬂy becoming a tie—dye affair!

The most obvious change is undoubt-
edly the price of admission. ltwas free.
Well, at least Annie Jo White’s first gala in
1907 wasa freebi,e except for the $2 charge
for constumes.Annie’s spare $44, half the
price of today’s tickets, paid for theentire
event. A VMI orchestra provided the enter-
tainment longbefore Bo Thorpe was
born.Despite the bargain price the ﬁrst ball
was organized with, the event left a similar
impression on attendees as it does today,
moving one onlooker to note, “This beats
anything I ever saw.”This new Bal Masque
was aninstanthitamongstudentsand quickly
became an annual attraction. However, it
was not quite yet a hit with the administra-
tion. The school refused to turn the ball into
a holiday and continued to hold 9 am Satur-
day classes on the next day.This held until
1923, when Fancy Dress was moved from
its February time slot to January, during
what was then the mid-semester break.

Two decades into the “costume ball” its
popularity skyrocketed.Thousands of people
attended, with young women often renting
entire boxcars on trains from around the
region to Lexington. Newspapers from New
York to Texas reported on and reviewed the
ball. It was soon carried across the country
by national radio networks, reaching its

affectionately called, and several students
used forty four dollars remaining from the
theater production proceeds to create the
ﬁrst Fancy Dress Ball.

The charter theme for that ﬁrst FD was
Bal Masque. Instead of wearin g dresses and
tuxedos, students donned two dollar cos-
tumes and spent the night two-stepping
to the tunes of the Virginia Military
Institute Orchestra.

White’s efforts to establish what she
hoped would become an annual social event
were met with some resistance. At first, the
idea of the Bal Masque was greeted with
indifference by the students. University

despite adversity

height in exposure.The New York Times
was moved to label Fancy Dress the “out-
standing collegiate social event of the
South.”

The orchastras and bands grew in stat-
ure, as well. Duke Ellington, Count Basie,
Bennie Goodman, and Jimmy Dorsey all
entertained the crowd at some time.

The ball was not entirely without a few
bumps in the road. In 1919, thestudent
body, holding to its traditionally conserva-
tive views, passed a resoluation denouncing
“all distasteful and exaggerated forms of
dancing, such as the shimmy.”

Later, cost became a source of com-
plaint. In 1936, the 60 cent raise in prices
brought outcry from the students.

The Fancy Dress Ball’s biggest crisis
came in the early ’70s.ln 1970, the school
calendar was changed, moving the end of
the fall semester from January to late De-
cember, just before the Christmas vacation.
Without being able to hold the gala during
the mid-semester break, and due to the
“greatly reduced budget” of the Dance
Board, Fancy Dress was scrapped. It died a
“silent death” according to The Ring—tum
Phi that year.In its place, a concert by The
Allman Brothers Band was held in Doremus
‘Gymnasium, followed two years later by
Sha Na Na. For the first time since World
War II, Annie’s ball was not held.

In ’74, it returned with much fanfare,
including the dumping of a pitcher of beer
over the head of W&L President
RobertHuntley.The themethat year was to
be “Land of Oz,” but just two weeks before
the ball, the IFC changed it to “Mardi Gras,”
the same theme as in ’54 and ’64. Dress was
semi—formal, but by the end of the decade
FD would permantly become a black tie
affair.

Themes such as “Passport to Paris” and
“Glories of Egypt” symbolized the ball’s
return to its earlier “high society” feel.
“Proper attire” was now requested so as to
avoid upsetting the doorman.

As Washington & Lee nears its 250th
birthday, the Fancy Dress Ball is now seem-
ingly a permantly entrenched tradition.
Though it hastravelled a long road since that
first $44, Annie’s ball is stillenjoyed by the
school she cared so much about.

president Henry L. Smith had to prevent a
grand jury from indicting White, who had
tried to purchase rum and scotch for the
event through the mail, in violation of
Prohibition law.

Hercontributions to W&Ltradition have
earned Annie Jo White the honor of having
Leybum Library’s computerized card cata-

creates Ba! Maque with $44

log named after her. University librarian
Barbara Brown stated that “Annie” was
chosen because it was short, easy to pro-
nounce and spell, and because it had signiﬁ-
cant W&L connections. Brown also said
that, “...More importantly, it is appropriate
that we honor a woman who was such a
friend to students.”

Historg of theme varied

$51 ya/ta/t Egiﬂm

2955' gzrwuliue ébaélo/t §

Une Soiree Parisienne. Though the
name is new, the concept is familiar, and as
with most Fancy Dress themes throughout
the years, it has a long line of esteemed
precursors.

The most recent occurrence of a similar
theme was 1977, when the FD committee
chose “Passport to Paris” as its theme.

The oldest was 1916, when FD first
departed from its early tradition of having
either “Bal Masque” or “Colonial America”
as its theme; the name of the ball that year
was “Court of Louis XIV.”

In 1918, the theme was somewhat simi-
lar and very intricate: “Europe and Colum-

bia, the Gem of the Ocean.” In 1926, the '

FD committee chose its theme in French:
“Bal Beaux Arts.”

'0/fa/nw @/Jew ﬁe Wm/-ﬁn:  gel/many 23, 1.9.95

 |995 Phi Fancg Dress Supplement Staff

Editor: Clnne Qlvord
Managing Editor: Sarah Gilbert
Qdvertisement Design and Layout: Mark Tobias
Reporters: Betsg Green. Kelleg Totten. Tadzia Grandpre. Bethang Bauman. Keith Grant

FDis too
spe ‘ to
taken lightly.

  -ii}
Askthatszfciall  I’  «  9” Jammmgl
On ‘I t . t’,;l‘ :’ I ‘ ‘I '.“‘*la‘ _'.‘ _
pas M Sye ' I .-'.~ " ,’7’;. I‘  ~' ' 25 N. Mam Street

sendan 5,. 15;,  - V’  T‘.  '_l‘:,j‘ Lexin ton, VA 24450
Co,,,,,,y Gaéldm _  ,.‘\g‘._, _ t‘. 3; ._ ‘ 7 3-463-6003
inavase- 1'.’   r’ ,
whateverittakes ’;""7,‘."V"l|v!-,",‘I'.' "rt; I 4;‘, MARlENI:ss INVITES you To cAll us
ism/oﬁghhatyou '   ~’ ' A (f'.§;,“ FOR THAT spEcIAl look FOR FD.
. "   \E_ M
"““'”‘- I ‘ A OUR SERVICES INcludE HAIRsTylINC.,
FAcIAls, wAxING, TANNING, REGU’
[AR ANd FRENCH MANICURES, ANd
AcRylIc NAIls. CAll EARly OR sTob

by FOR AppoINTIvIENTs ANd HAVE A

 Florist to The Homestead GREAT “ME AT FD!
Ten E. Nelson Lexington 463-9841 A

AlVin_DenniS’ Inc. Fancy Dress is a memorable

_ event, so dine at a
102 W- Washmgmn St memorable restaurant!

     The Willson-Walker House

30 N. Main Street

FANCV DIQESS 463-3020

Reservations now bein accepted

- Tuxedos for Rent .
f L h d D !
- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos For Sale reglérV1;?iE)n:2ar1y1:I?§raVOigliggfgsﬁ

- Fancy Cummberbund & Tie Sets minute rush,

- Flasks A _
Q!

- Jewelry and Tuxedo Shirts n..  _”_
Also - Winter Clearance Sale in Progress %Vv1;_‘,I_‘§°EN,{ ‘" _  ‘

VISA MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE .’.*.9..‘.’§F.
463-5333 BON APPETIT - ET v1v1~: LA CUISINE FRANCAISE!

We 3?t31r!-hm «Wu; M104! 26; 1.9.95 '9'

Q/ma

Options are endless for successful FD themes

GREEN LAND
BETSY GREEN

The secret is out. The theme for the 1995
Fancy Dress Ball is Une Saree Paressiene.
I have to say, it has potential. French
impressionist paintings, chateaus, and side-
walk aritists will surely transform our gym
in to something tres bien. The possibilities
are endless. Remember the belly dancers
(all of whom had probably had at least four
children) who wandered around last year’s
FD? If the steering committee has any hopes
of making this French

your black formal—W&L has gone grunge! protest outside.

What The Hell Do You Care; You’re
with FD——both are supposedly substance- Drunklz At last, an FD that tells it like it is.
free. Pretend, if only brieﬂy, that you are on There will be no decorations whatsoever,
the cutting edge of the subculture. Leave because, hey, like you’d notice. TheFDcom-
behind your patent leather tux shoes for a mittee decides not to mention that there are no
pair of Birkenstocks. Mosh to B0 Thorpe’s ﬁreworks this year in hopes that no one real-

Woodstock II actually had a lot in common

cover of “Smells Like Teen Spirit.” The FD
shirt? Tye-dyed. Think of the fun of sliding
around in the mud in your rental tux.
Evening in Lexington: Wow, what a fun
FD theme! Everyone gets really drunk then
spends the night in jail. Oh, wait...that could
happen any weekend.
Inside the Human Liver: Let’s prove to
our professors that FD can be both fun and
educational. No

thing authentic, they
will feature strolling
rude waiters at this
year’s ball. But what if
the FD committee
hadn’t chosen Frenchy
Dress Ball? Think of all
of the FD themes that
could have been (make
cool Wayne’s World
ﬂashback noises now)...

FD chairman
Paducah Joe Framptom
was really tom when it
came to choosing this
year’s theme. A long-
time favorite of Joe’s is
Great Social Purges of
the Twentieth Century.
The Warner Center
would be transformed
into Bosnia-Hertzogovinia, and heaven only
knows what else.

Joe was also considering Great Maritime
Disasters. Dance with your date in the small
gym made to look just like the Exxon-
Valdez debaucle, but beware of the slick
spots! Then stroll over to the big gym, The
Wreck of the Titantic, or And the B0 Thorpe
Orchestra Played On. You have to love the
creative genius that is Paducah Joe. Here are
some other possilbe themes.

Reliving Your High School Prom:
Everyone’s parents come to Lexington to
drive them to the ball and pick them up
afterwards. The Warner Center is half-
heartedly decorated with a few streamers
and balloons. The music is provided by a
DJ, so the music will be “American Pie,”
“Bohemian Rhapsody,” and “Everything I
Do (I Do it For You)” over and over again.
You and your date either (1) Hook up in
public even though you are both sober or (2)
hardly ever see each other because he is
busy hi gh-ﬁving his friends and she is busy
comforting a crying friend in the bathroom.
Or, worse still...

Junior High School Hop: Bring a date?
God, how embarassing. He might think I
like him. Listen to the sounds of Poison and
Debbie Gibson as chaperones watch your
every move. Stare at cute members of the
opposite sex from safely‘ across the room in
the protective custody of your friends. True
romance comes when that special someone
walks across the room and mutters those
fateful words: “Will you go with me?”

Woodstock III: Tie a ﬂannel around

FD chairman
Paducah Joe
Framptom was really
torn when it came to
choosing this year’s
theme. A longtime fa-
vorite of Joe’s is Great
Social Purges of the
Twentieth Century.

fireworks this
year? No prob-
lem. Perhaps the
“suprise”thatthe
committee has
promsied us will
be a simulated
case of cirrosis.

Back to the
Confederacy:
The FD commit-
tee won ’t have to
worry about poor
attendanceto this
ball because so
many W&L stu-
dents already
long to be there.
Anactor playing
Robert E. Lee
canwalkthrough
the gym kicking us all out of school for
ungentlemanly behavior. The only theme
that W&L students might be more respon-
sive to would have to be Back to the Reagan
Administration.

Disney World: W&L spends lots of
money on FD anyway, so why don’t we just
go for it and make our own amusement
park? The rude French waiters scheduled to
wander through the gym this year can dress
up as everyone’s favorite Disney charac-
ters. We can take the roof off of the gym to
allow more room for Space Mountain. Japa-
nese tourists can double as Party Pic pho-
tographers. Perhaps the children of Lexing-
ton will be allowed to stay up extra late for
this one special night so they can wander
through the gym entertaining us by losing
their Mickey Mouse balloons and crying
(not that there's anything wrong with that.
It’s happened to me and I know how trau-
matic it can be) and whining about wanting
ice cream. How beautiful.

Behind the Iron Curtain: In front of
Warner Center will be a large statue of Karl
Marx. The interior will be covered in gray
paper with an occasional red“Workers of
the World Unite” sign to spice things up, if
only sparsely. Added realism will come
from the secret police (played by Lexington’s
finest) and long lines for bread.

A Salute to Suzi Landolphi: Suzi the Sex
Girl’s likeness is plastered all over the gym.
The ﬂoor is covered entirely with condoms.
More condoms hang from the ceiling, in-
ﬂated in the balloon-like style that so irri-
tates Suzi. Conservative students

izes it. A magical night? That’s what you'll
tell yourself, considering how much money
you’ll sink into it.

Now you know how much potential
Fancy Dress Ball has. Get psyched. Unless
you chose the last theme, it will without a
doubt be a night to remember.

6. Take advantage of the fine French cuisine

2. Petition to have the steeple of Lee Chapel

1. Run into the BDG Quad at midnight shout-

Top Ten Ways to get in the mood for Une
Soiree Parisienne

By Margaret Rich and Kelly Totten

10. join channel #FRANCE on the internet
9. Decorate your room as a French ﬂat --
cover everything in red, blue, and white
8. Eat croissants everyday for breakfast
7. Get a tattoo of the French flag; you can
choose whether or not to let your date find
where it is.

in Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall. For ex-
ample, French fries, French toast, and
French bread.
5. Stock up on French wine to prepare for
une grande soiree panisienne.
4. Leech yourself onto the nearest French
major to learn key phrases to impress your
- date. “Voulez-vous couchez avec moi ce
soir? ” for example.
3. Greet everyone you meet with the
traditional French kiss. We mean on the
cheek, Ioverboy.

transformed into the Eifel Tour.

ing “Happy Bastille Day! Happy Bastille
Day!” and set offﬁreworks.

 

‘I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Mariek Hairstylers

11 8. Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
463-9588

Men’s / Women’s Hair & Nails
$2 off any service w/ coupon

. r-I-I-——I-I-—-—

Ke||y’s Corner

On Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 mlles West of Lexington

Celebrate Fancy Dress
traditional low prices and excellent service

L__..____.._.I

Open 7 Days

 

CHECK OUT OUR

IDRESSES,
SHOES &
ACCESSORIES

FOR FD

PAPPAGALLO

{:4-

 

 

 

come to Totally Party

 

program
Advanced
Studies in

   

 
   

interested

463-5452 Mlles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors students

 

 

The director of
the study-abroad

England, located
in Bath, will be
on campus
Friday, Feb. 24
at 3 p.m. in
Univ. Center
117 to talk with

I Party Shoes Cleaned -

 

Before and After

Satin Shoes dyed
in 1 hour

at
Shoe Fixers
3 W. Nelson St. 464-6666

 

  

  

for all your F.D. needs.

 

US Highway 11 North  

Tuxedos and accessories, rental dresses and
consignments too. We also have tents, tables,
chairs & china for your F.D. parties & dinners.

464-5720

    
   

  

  

