 
  

f, !"‘7F."'3 §"‘x,lFlx‘_ ‘P! 

MAY 0 81995

 
   
     
   

l=’.

 

tfedrio9;, high 6,0-37,0‘
t-‘Lo ’s‘jnec_a_r45.
  ....y.rttct.7s,
)t+?<1f*1Y.?”"“Y-W9“ ;

  

)'—li.sl:ewry oi:
Zallwsawls

Women ’s Lax

falls to Roanoke

9

9

Chi: ifttng-tum Iﬂlri

4 *’l 1; 4;
voLUME9s, No,2i WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA MAY 5. 1995

 
   

Paying final respects

Photo by

Betsy Green, The‘ Ring—tum Phi

Members of the Washington and Lee community gathered in Lee Chapel on Wedesday to pay ﬁnal respects to Coach
Gary Fallon who died suddenly last Saturday.

Student injured in fall from Lexington roof

From Phi Staff Reports

Early Sunday morning, Sophomore Peter Breen
fell approximately ten feet from the roof of The Lee
Manor to a lower roof of the same building.

Breen, who had climbed to the top of the building,
the tallest in Lexington, via a fire escape with several
friends Patrick Madden, Chris Brooks, Erin Mullaney,

and Katie Moore.

Madden called Emergency Medical Services from
the Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity house and Breen was
taken to the Stonewall Jackson Hospital where he

was diagnosed with a broken clavicle.

At 7:30 a.m., Breen was released into the custody
of the Lexington Police Department and charged
with trespassing and drunk in public.

Breen was held injail until 5:30 p.m. when he was
picked up by his roommate Burke Willard. Breen
was taken to the Washington and Lee Infirmary, and
after being questioned by Infirmary staff, Breen was
returned to Stonewall Jackson, where a CAT scan
was performed and a fractured skull was discovered.
At this time, he was airlifted to Roanoke Memorial
Hospital.

At 11:30 p.m. on Sunday, surgery was performed

' 9 to remove a blood clot from the iriside of Breen’s

skull.Breen’s total injuries have been diagnosed as
the blood clot which was removed, a broken clavicle,

and bruised ribs and kidneys.

recollect the flight.

Breen remembers none of the events. He says he’
remembers being on the roof, and then the next thing
he knew, it was Saturday morning. He vaguely re-
calls being told he was going to be airlifted from
Stonewall Jackson to Roanoke, though he does not

Breen says he is recovering and hopes to return to

W&L next week, although he says, “It depends on

how I feel.”

Holocaust survivor recalls experience

ByCindy Young
Phi News Editor

When a black soldier tossed
him a standard—issue U.S. ra-
tion candy baron May 3,1945,
11-year-old Zev Kedem knew
something was strange.

The day indeed proved a
special one. That day Kedem
regained his freedom and his
life when American soldiers

liberated the German concen-
tration camp in which Kedem
had been living.

Thursday night in Northern
Auditorium, 50years and one
day after his liberation, Kedem
reflected on his experiences
behind the barbed wires of six
Nazi concentration camps. In
his speech, sponsored by Con-
tact, Kedem offered a descrip-
tion both of the wartime hor-
rors through the eyes of an 1 1-

year old and of his own under-
standing of events half a cen-
tury later.

Born in Poland in 1934,
Kedem first became ac-
quainted with the Nazi regime
in 1939, when the Germans
invaded Poland and began lim-
itingJewish behavior. Kedem
recalls the enforced wearing
of arm bands and badges.

The apartmentthathadonce
been home to Kedem’s family

alone soon housed six fami-
lies, under German command.
“Immediately,” Kedem
added, “the fabric of human
life started falling apart.”
The ‘war effort’ justified
all adjustments German con-
trol brought to the life of Pol-
ish Jews. Kedem described a
work permit as a “passport to
life.” Not to be useful to the
state became grounds for death.
The Germans soon built a

ghetto for the Jewish commu-
nity, enforcing absolute Ger-
man control. The site chosen
for the barracks was the local
cemetary.

Kedem saw fellow Jews
forced to open the graves for
gold and riches, with all prof-
its donated to the Nazi cause.

At the age of eight, Kedem

See KEDEM, page 2

Roger Mudd, ’59, comes home again

afterward, television made the public formation to the public lasts a long
the eyewitnesses, Mudd said. He also time-not tabloidization.

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

With C—Span cameras panning Lee
Chapel, visiting professor of journal-
ism Roger Mudd chastised the increas-
ing tabloidization of the news profes-
sion and reflected on his years at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

He described how students made
fun of former W&L presidents who
thrusted their canes as they walked and
professors who forgot their students’
names when calling roll. Despite the
jokes, Mudd recalls what he learned
about intangible things such as honor,
integrity and dignity, he said.

“I can’t think of a place where my
code of ethics got a finer sharpening.”

Mudd, who graduated from W&L
in 1950 and earned a master’s degree in
history from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1951, deliv-
ered the annual Robert L. Telford Dis-
tinguished Lecture entitled “You Can
Go Home Again.”

Better known as the man who al-
most got Walter Cronkite’s CBS
anchorship, Mudd was chief Washing-

V ton correspondent, chief political cor-
respondent, co-anchor of the NBC

, Nightly ‘News, co-anchor of “Meet the
Press,” and co-anchor of the magazine
shows, “American Almanac” and
“1986.” In 1987, he joined MacNeil/
Lehreras an essayist and congressional
correspondent. Mudd is currently a
host of the Arts and Entertainment

Cable Network’s new History channel
and has served from 1992 to 1994 as
Ferris Professor of Journalism at
Princeton University. This Spring, he
is teaching a journalism class that ex-
amines whether the Washington Press
Corps adequately provides accurate in-
formation to people outside of

cited anchormen who are chosen for

«My

solution is to start reporting

their marketability. He touched on de— again and bring back Walter Cronkite,”
regulation of the TV industry by the says Mudd.

Reagan and Carter administrations.
This has resulted in the news busi-
ness being almost indistinguishable

the capitol. from show
He sees business.

vast changes “The New

in the press York Post

over the past
20 years. He
said the press
mistrusts the

talks about
George Bush
having an af-
fair, “ he said.

government. “Hard Copy
This mistrust p a y s
stems from a $100,000 to
1960 incident T o n y a

when State
Department
s p 0 k e s m a n
Lincoln White
lied to the
press about
American spy
planes in Rus-
sia,describing
them as
w e at h e r
planes. Mudd explained that the press
became outraged. Before 1960, the
press had an unquestioning faith in the
government, he said.

The television industry changed the
relationship between the press and the
public. Before John F. Kennedy, the
press were eyewitnesses to events, but

 

Roger Mudd

Harding. The
tabloid press
says paying
for stories is
the way to
compete.”

M u d d
q u e st io n e (1
whether this
type of news
gathering rep-
resents the journalistic mission. He
said the public is the victim of compe-
tition between C-Span, CNN, CBS,
ABC and NBC.

Journalists must hold to a standard
of truth, but when they start slipping
from that standard, the profession suf-
fers, he argued. Providing accurate in-

Winter rush
approved

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Staff Member

Winter Rush is now a reality. On
Monday, eighty six members of the
faculty voted unanimously in favor of
two rush proposals authored by the
Student Affairs Committee.

The first proposal, which was ap-
proved by the SAC 7-4-1, states that
fraternity rush should be held in Winter
Term beginning in January 1997. The
details of the rush program will be
determined by the lnterfraternity Coun-
cil and the SAC. The second proposal,
unanimously approved by the SAC,
endorses the lFC’s plan to institute a
shortened pledge period to take place
immediately following 1995 Fall Term
men’s rush. Next year’s rush will be
similar to what occurred in 1994.

Theideaofmoving men’s rush from
Fall to Winter Term was first sug-
gested by Professor of Physics
Thomas Williams. Williams initiated
the proposal because of the results of
university wide studies done over the
past six years, including that of the
Coeducation Review Committee,
which focused on the social aspects of
life at Washington and Lee. These
studies recommended that a deferred
rush would be more beneficial for the
students. Williams also cites letters by
Deans Rrrscin and Manning which
strongly supported Winter Rush as rea-
sons for initiating the proposal.

Williams believes that, “...what po-
tentially could be gained on the part of
the students is a more rational
choice...Freshmen will have a better
chance to become accustomed to the
academic rhythm of the place...before
making a commitment in a social way.
After a semester, the ability to mesh
thosethings will be better. I think other
activities at the university will be seen,
and looked at more carefully by the
freshmen, because they will have the
time in the first semester,”

Williams found support for his idea
from the faculty and administrators.
Dean of the College John Elrod be-
lieves that a deferred rush will allow
both freshmen and upperclassmen in
fraternities to get a better sense of which
students will fit in at which houses.
Freshmen decisions will be based pri-
marily on their comfort and common
interests with the fraternity, not a ﬂurry
of rush activities. Elrod also believes
that, “It is very important for freshmen
to have a solid, unencumbered aca-
demic experience right away because
this is...an academic institution.” Fresh-
men need a chance to get to know the
faculty, the curriculum, the level of
demand, and have a chance to get to
know each other before they are di-
vided into pledge classes, Elrod said.

President John Wilson agreed with
his successor, stating that, “The pri-
macy ofrush coming so early in the fall
tends in the minds of many students
and...parents to distort the priorities of
the institution...The first objective is to
bring the primacy of the academic pro-

gram and getting adjusted to a new set
of expectations back and to give the
faculty an opportunity to really work
with these students without having a
very important social agenda going on
at the same time.”

Members of the IFC have opposed
the idea of Winter Rush since its con-
ception. President Ryan Connolly ex-
plained, “The IFC would have hoped
that it did not pass. We supported Fall
Rush. However, we also understand
the faculty’s position, and now that it
has passed, we’ll be willing to make it
work the best that it can.”

Despite Connolly ’s assertion, many
fraternity members have doubts about
the effectiveness of a Winter Rush.
Many fraternity men voiced concerns
about membership and finances. It is
believed that the smaller houses will
have trouble competing with houses
with larger budgets. These smaller
houses fear that their membership may
fall below the quota necessary to keep
their charter. Most fraternities are also
concerned that they will experience a
loss of revenue.

Opposition to Winter Rush has not
stopped with fraternities. Sororities
are also concerned that their rush will
be affected by the change. Freshman
Kappa Kappa Gamma Carson Flowers
said, “Fall Rush helps sorority rush in
that the females see guys getting ex-
cited ahmit the Greek svstem and it
helps us get excited also. The Greek
system as a whole will be affected by
Winter Rush, not just the fraternities.”
Mary Michael Pettyjohn added that
moving rush from Fall to Winter now
casts doubts on what freshmen men
will be able to do for social weekends
like Homecoming and Christmas.

The overriding concern among stu-
dents is that there has been an en-
croachment on their autonomy. Presi-
dent Wilson believes, “On social mat-
ters [students] want to feel that they
have control entirely 01' the shape of
their social lives...It’s an autonomy
question...I respect that point of view...I
hope that students would understand
that the faculty have been given the
authority by the trustees to set out the
parameters of the academic and social
life in the university. They have del-
egated that social side to the
students...They always had the author-
ity on reserve. Now when the aca-
demic program then it certainly gave
license to the faculty to exercise
its authority.”

The faculty’s Monday vote has not
closed the debate concerning Winter
Rush, but has moved that debate into a
new stage. The questions aboutwhether
or not the proposal is an attack on
student autonomy or whether partici-
pation in the Greek system will dimin-
ish are relatively unimportant. The
relevant concern is how effectively the
IFC and SAC will be able to work out
the details of Winter Rush and how
these committees and the administra-
tion will deal with any negative mem-
bership or financial ramifications of
the change.

\

Oh, What a night!!

3;
': Rig

File Photo

Students revel in Tear Night, W&L’s infamous night of debauchery

 

 

PAGE 2

  

The World  E

Rwandan Army puts ‘soldiers on trial

Fourteen Tutsi soldiers were charged in a Rwandan military court
with aggrivated murder and other human rights crimes against the Hutu
population in the wake of the year long conﬂict between the two rival
groups. The government hopes that these trials will demonstrate that the
dominant armed forces are not above the law. Concurrently, the
Rwandan government indeﬁnitely postponed trials for approximately
30,000 Hutus accused of being connected with the massacre of Tutsis
last year before Tutsi rebels seized power from the Hutu led govem-
ment. JusticeMinister Alphonse Marie Nkubito claims to have sus-
pended the trialsbecause of a lack of money and magistrates to hear the
cases.

Mafia trial begins

Forty two alleged Mafia leaders went on trial this week for the 1992
car bomb murderof Giovanni Falcone. Falcone, a state prosecutor, was
the ﬁrst to unravel the inner workings of the Sicilian Maﬁa. He secured
long term jail sentences for 338 Maﬁa associates in 1987, including
major crime boss Salvatore Riina. It is also believed that Falcone was
expected to expose links between the Sicilian Maﬁa and Italy’s Chris-
tian Democrat led political regime.

Kuchma meets with Pope

On Wednesday, Ukrainian President Leonard Kuchma initiated a
four day trip to Italy with a discussion with Pope John Paul II about some
church property disputes. Kuchma claims that property belonging to
the Ukranian Catholic Church was conﬁscated by the Soviet Union
after dictator Joseph Stalin forced the church to merge with the Russian
Orthodox Church. Despite the legitimization of the Ukrainian Catholic
Church following the collapse of the Soviet Union, property disputes

persist.
7 ate?’


   
 

The Nation

Foster testifies before Senate

  

 

On Tuesday. President Clinton’s nominee for surgeon general,
Henry W. Foster, Jr., testified before the Senate Labor and Human
Resources Committee. Republicans on the committee who are consid-
ering his nomination question the effectiveness of Foster’s teenage
pregnancy prevention program, his knowledge of a controversial syphi-
lis study on African American men before it became public in 1972, his
performance of hysterectomies to sterilize mentally retarded women,
and his high abortion record. Foster, who if conﬁrmed will replace the
ﬁred Joycelyn Elders, tried to convince the committee that he is a man
of integrity who has the qualiﬁcations to be surgeon general.

Progress in-Oklahoma City bombing
investigation

At daybreak on Tuesday, Gary Alan Land and Robert Jacks were
arrested a Missouri hotel. The two were obtained by the FBI because
their recent travels have parallelled those of bombing suspect Timothy
McVeigh. However, investigators now doubt that Land is the second
bomber for whom they have been searching. The FBI wants to retain
the two men in custody though, because of what investigators claim to
be suspicious circumstances. Meanwehile, 176 have been conﬁrmed
dead, leaving 37 unaccounted for.

US). accepts Cubans held at base

The 2,100 refugees who ﬂed Communist ruled Cuba and are cur-
rently being detained at Guantanamo Bay will soon be allowed to
migrate to the United States. On Tuesday, the Clinton Administration
reversed its policy announcing that those currently at the Naval base
would be allowed to migrate, while any who attempt to in the future will
be forcibly returned to Cuba. Gen. John J. Sheehan, commander in chief
of the U.S. Atlantic Command that oversees Guantanamo Bay, stated
that concerns over'the refugee center’s one million dollar per day cost
and the possibility of unrest this summer forced Tuesday’s abrupt
policy change.

The State

Weddle out of GOP race

OnTuesday,RepublicanstateSenatecandidate Gary Weddledropped
out of the‘ race, leaving Pat Cupp as the sole candidate. Weddle says he
dropped out of the race because he does not have the time to run a
campaign due to events in his personal life. Cupp, a Blacksburg
businessman, will receive the Republican nomination and face incumbant
Democrat Madison Marye in the race for the Senate seat which
represents Montgomery, Grayson, Smyth, Galax, southern Pulaski, and
northern Carroll counties.

Teachers to receive higher pay in
Roanoke

The Roanoke School Board hopes to raise salaries of city teachers to
a nationally competitive level. On Tuesday, the board met with the City
Council to review the proposed $77.6 million school budget. Board
member Charles Day claims that salary increases will move the Roanoke
into the ranks of the top 25 in Virginia. The School Board also hopes
to reduce primary class size, reduce the dropout rate, and lessen the gap
between black and white students’scores on the Iowa Test of Basic
Skills.

Allen’s approval rating dropped

In the past nine months, Gov. George Allen’s approval rating has
dropped about thirteen percentage points. However, a poll taken by the
Virginia Commonwealth University showed that 15 percent rate Allen’s
performance as excellent, 38 percent as good, 32 percent as fair, and 15
percent as poor. A poll taken last July, 66 percent believed that Allen
had done a good or excellent job.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
Bethany Bauman

 

The Rin -tum Phi ‘Ma 5 1995

Stress at Washington and Lee:

Surviving the Pressure Cooker
By Dan Odenwald

You know it’s going to be one of
those days. You sleep through your
first class, skip lunch to write a paper
due at 1:00, fail a quiz, and have three
conflicting meetings that night. You’re
exhausted, irritable, and sick. You’re
suffering from stress.

Nearly every student at Washington
and Lee has been stressed at least once.
After all, this university can be a tense
place. Pressures from academics, Greek
life, relationships, and extracurriculars
can push a student to the limit.

A certain amount of stress can be
positive. It can motivate students to
manage their time better. However,
too much stress can be problematic.

At minimum, stress can disrupt
sleeping habits, eating patterns, and
work schedules.

Physical ailments and negative
psychological effects can result from
increasing stress. At worst, over-
whelming stress can completely over-
run a student.

A student can shut down and cease

to function. We’ve all heard the night-
mare stories of stressed out peers “ﬂip-
ping out.” _

She stayed in bed for 4 days. He
doesn’t eat at all. She stopped going to
classes. He doesn’t talk to any
of his friends anymore. She
attempted suicide.

Stress in college can be difﬁcult
to manage.

This Phi special report on stress at
Washington and Lee will highlight the
causes of stress, it’s side effects, pro-

ﬁles of students under stress, and tips
for dealing with stress.

Spring Term may seem like an un-
usual time to present this report, but
looking at stress in a characteristically
laid back time may help crystallize the
issue. . .

Most importantly, we hope our read-
ers will use the following information
to their benefit. College stress can be
dangerous. Knowingthewamingsigns
and coping skills can make every one’s
life a little bit easier.

 

Causes for stress vary among W&L undergrads

The reasons for stress are as varied as its manifes-
tations. Ask 20 students why they are stressed and one

will get 20 different answers.

Despite the many different factors causing stress,
underlying similarities are clearly identiﬁable.

Causes for stress can include lack of sleep, mis-
management of time, drinking too much or for the
wrong reasons, illness, and not eating properly. Psy-
chological problems, of course, can lead to stress. The
death of a family member, breaking up with a signiﬁ-
cant other, and switching residences cause stress.
Studies have shown that even happy events cause
stress. Marriages, new births, and graduations, while

at W&L.

assignment successfully.

be embarrassing.

to chest pains.

Every Washington
and Lee student deals
with a certain amount of
stress. Some deal with
considerably more. You
know who they are.
They’re the ones who
chair two committees, are
an ofﬁcer in their frater-
nity, overload every
term, and still manage to
have a fantastic social
life. We callthem super-
achievers and they toler-
ate more than their fair
share of stress. You think
you have it bad, take a
look at these guys:

Laura Purcell ’95:
Editor of» the Calyx,
member of the‘ Univer-.

sity Wind Ensemble, tour
guide at the Stonewall
Jackson House, member
of Pi Beta Phi sorority,
and Secretary of the Pub-
lications Board.

“I have problems get-
ting to sleep at night be-
cause of stress,”
said Purcell.

She attempts to deal
with her stress by keep-
ing an appointment book.
Purcell complains of hav-
ing trouble relaxing and
eating properly.

She recommends bi-
cycling to combat
stress and cutting down
on caffeine.

 

cause for celebration, lead to stress albeit positive stress.

Washington and Lee University students do not deal
with such occasions on a regular basis. They affect the
post-college adult population much more frequently.
However, stress does impact student life. The image of
the care-free college student is a myth. Life as a student
can be very taxing for a number of reasons, especially

Associate Dean of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont
believes many stress-related problems result from stu-
dents having difficulty managing time.

Since they are so bright, many students tend to
procrastinate like they did in high school because it was
possible to complete a major assignment in a couple of
hours, according to Schroer-Lamont. In college, stu-
dents try to pull off a major assignment in two hours
when they need four to six hours to complete the

Students have a false belief in their ability to rescue
themselves at the 12th hour, said Schroer-Lamont.

“Work hard, play hard,” W&L’s unofﬁcial motto,
certainly takes a toll. The rigorous academic standards
can cause stress for the diligent student. Given the
increase of the standards for the Dean’s List and ‘Honor
Roll, the pressure will be heightened next term.

The rampant alcohol misuse on campus is also dan-
gerous. Hangovers and binge drinking not only physi-
cally push the student’s body to the limit, dealing with
social ramifications of a raucous drunken episode can

The symptoms of stress are clearly visible:
Trouble sleeping, overeating or poor eating, stomach
cramps, diarrhea, a general feeling of malaise, nausea,
and shortness of ‘breath are tell-tale signs of stress.
Schroer-Lamont said there are over 1400 body
changes to stress ranging from twitching heart muscles

Closing yourself off to friends is a good indicator of
inordinate amounts of stress. Often times those who
suffer from stress will increase their smoking or drink-

“Some days I wake
up and wish I had more
time for fun,”
said Purcell.

Purcell says one can
avoid stressful situations
by learning to “say
no and not raising
your hand.”

Karlene Jennings
’96: Chair of the Alco-
hol Review Committee,
Vice-Chair of Women
and Leadership, Student
Development Commit-
tee, tour guide at the
Stonewall Jackson
House, Health Education
Committee member, and
member of Alpha Phi
Omegaservicefratemity.

“[My activities] don’t
stress me out, it’s when
we have major events in
each that conflict,”
said Jennings.

She says her commit-
ments are draining, but
she makes time for her-
self frequently. Asked
why she keeps herself so
busy, Jennings replied,
“I enjoy myself by see-
ing the good that l’ve
done and that which
l’ve accomplished.”

Jennings admits the
worst thing about her
work is when she
is under appreciated.

She advises other stu-

ing to forget. It’s important to note that everyone
will react differently to stress and looking for
signs of stress can be difﬁcult.

If stress goes untreated the sufferer may begin
to develop more serious physical problems and
diseases. Colitis, constipation, and various self-

destructive nervous ticks like pulling out your

hair can indicate someone under stress.

Schroer-Lamont recalled a story of a room-
mate who had the nervous habit of plucking

entire patches of hair out during stressful events.

While under stress one is also more likely to
catch common illnesses that circulate on campus.
So what leads to stress?
Depression, low self-esteem, and perfection-
ism can cause stress. Critical self-talk can also
have negative consequences. I ’m stupid. I ’m fat.

No one likes me. Why should I try ? I ’m not good

enough. I have no life.

The world would be

better off without me. These are examples of

critical self-talk.

Helping a friend deal with too much stress can
be emotionally exhaustive and you may
need to seek help from one of the

university’s counselors.

treatment, and
suicidal thoughts.

Schroer-Lamont said professional attention is
needed when a roommate has skipped three to
four classes, refuses to visit the Health Center for

begins expressing

Those students most susceptible to stress-

related problems are those without a good net-
work of support, said Schroer-Lamont. Having a

couple of close friends with whom one can share

stressful events helps to diffuse that stress.
Contrary to popular belief, stress does regu-

larly impact student life. Knowing the warning

dents to know their
limits when making com-
mitments.

Michael Weinfeld
’95: President of the
StudentActivitiesBoard,
Vice President of Kappa
Alpha fraternity, and
member of Kathekon.

“The stress helps me
to perform better and
forces me to manage my
time,” said Weinfeld.

He admitted that his
busy schedule can take
away from his social life,
but gooﬁng off with his
friends helps. The big
SAB weekends stress
him the most. He be-
lieves taking everything
one day at a time puts all
he does into perspective.

Weinfeld recom-
mends, “Don’t let your
activities take over
your life like I
have sometimes.”

Elise Brown ’95:
PresidentofPanhellenic,
Dorm Counselor, Stu-
dent Affairs Committee,
Kathekon, Student De-
velopment Committee,
Student Recruitment
Committee, and member
of Pi Beta Phi sorority.

“I got stressed out a
lot this year, but I deal
with it myself,”
said Brown.

KEDEM: Learning to live again, from page 1

understood that his Jewish blood alone
“excluded me from permission to be
alive.”

Despite its misery, the ghetto still
nourished a close-knit community, but
even this did not last long; deportation
to concentration camps caused the
population of Kedem’s community to
dwindle from 20,000 to a few thousand
as trains took away more and more
people.Kedem himself was finally re-
moved, separated from his family and
his past. His name became a number
-—Bl4433— and his past a memory.

Relocated to a concentration camp,
Kedem understood thatonly work could
save him from execution, and secured
a job in the nearby brush factory. .

Living in this and other concentra-
tion camps, “the whole concept” of
Kedem’s life “was to live through to
the next day.”

Concentration camp prisoners re-
ceived at most only 30% of the amount
of food necessary to sustain life, and
Kedem suggests that in the very depri-
vation of food the victims had a “built—
in realization of no future.”

In spite of his seemingdoom, Kedem
soon obtained the possibility of a fu-
ture. A professor in the camp looked
out for the young boy, and added his
name to the Schindler’s List of Holly-
wood fame.“To get on Schindler’s list,”
Kedem explained, “was a struggle to
survive.”

Spending time in a total of six con-
centration camps, Kedem acquired sur-
vival techniques which enabled him to
act without regret, and to live without
feeling.“The control of emotions was
total,” Kedem recalls. “You could not
make any friends, because you lost
them and the loss was too great.”

signs and being able to recognize them in your-
self can help a student successfully combat the
harmful effects of stress. A -

Super-Achievers -- Super Stress?

She says keeping busy
helps her deal with the
harmful effects of stress.
Taking hot showers and
exercising also helps.
What keeps her going is
her desire to accomplish
something in the areas in
which she is interested.

Ryan Connolly
’96: The worst part of
his busy life is when he
doesn’t have control over
his own time. For him,
it’s almost like he is
trapped.

Connolly urges stu-
dents to get involved in
activities they really en-
joy and not those which
only pad the resume.

Associate Dean of
Students Anne Schroer-
I_.amont says that super-
achievers need to learn
to say no. Since they are
very reliable and trust-
worthy, many will call
on them forservice. They
must pick wisely that
which with they will in-
volve themselves.

Schroer-Lamont said
student leaders should
sort through their priori-
ties. Decide which ac-
tivity you most want to
impact and focus. Too
many commitments can
only lead to stress and
early bum-out.

The same ﬁerce attitude with which
Kedem could adapt to a life where a
bullet was always only so far away,
proved destructive to his own charac-
ter. ‘‘It was great equipment for sur-
vival,” Kedem explains, “but terrible if
you stay alive.”

When American troops arrived in
the final camp in which Kedem served,
he was an 11-year old deeply removed
from the concepts of honor and love.

For nearly the next fifty years,
Kedem tried to forget his years as Nazi
prisoner. The chance for education in
a place far from his childhood years
was irresistable to Kedem, and he en-
rolled at Oxford, graduating with a
degree in engineering.

Kedem became a successful engi-
neer, eventually moving to Israel with
his wife and coordinating such projects
as the construction of an airﬁeld on Mt.

Sinai. Kedem also has established
himself as a creative ﬁlm director.

Yet Kedem remained silent on his
past. “I saw it not in color, not in black-
and-white, but in total darkness,” a
story “not to be shared.” .

Only a phone call from Hollywood
director/producer Steven Spielberg
could break Kedem’s silence.

In cooperating with him on the ﬁlm
Schindler ’s List, offering not only his-
torical but technical support, Kedem

began to connect himselfwith his past. .

He has now reconciled himself with
the past, even on a spiritual level.
Kedem has come to accept why such a
series of events happened to him, con-

.453‘.

cluding that there “must be a God some- ‘.

where, so that a child goes through that

experience and survives to be a voice __
even against the darkness of the Holo-

caust.”

 

4:

—K

K

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 5, 1995

a%

W&L tfe

PAGE 3

From Dionne Warwick to Dave Matthews

By CELESTE RASMUSSEN
Phi Staff Member

When drunk and trouncing through the mud at Zollman’s,
you’ve probably never wondered why such a place would
exist. A “party barn” like Zollman’s seems as logical and
familiar to the W&L social experience as fraternity houses
and Fancy Dress. However, considering the almost 250
years of W&L history, Zollman’s is a tradition that is rooted
in the relatively recent past.

According to the Spring 1993 edition of the W&L
Alumni Magazine, the pavilion has been in existence since
1964, when original owner Ralph Zollman built a simple
roof to cover his family during their reunions. Soon after,
perhaps attracted to the rustic, out-of the way setting of
Buffalo Creek, Zollman’s was discovered by W&L stu-
dents.

Needless to say, the pavilion was soon radically trans-
formed. According to the article, between 1964 and 1970,
increased student response led to the building of a large
stage, the installation of booths and the placement of the
large stone fireplace in the back.

Indeed, partying at Zollman’s has become an experience.
lt is an exercise in group behavior on the large-scale; for the
parties are always big and the music always loud.

However, many people are quick to point out the down-
sides to such a place. Particularly in the winter months,
Zollman’s can be, perhaps, a bit too rustic. Furthermore,
cramped, out house-style bathrooms do little to help the
experience.

As freshman Helen Kim simply puts it, “The bathrooms
stink, and it’s too cold to go there regularly.” When asked
about Zollman’s, another freshman woman commented,

“l’ve been there twice. The first time I was sober and had a
horrible time. The second time I was drunk and had a great

time.” As another person added, “Yeah, if you drink, you

don’t mind the odor.”

The bathroom situation at Zollman’s hasn’t always been
so bad, though. According to the Alumni magazine, there
were nice bathrooms with hot and cold running water at one
point, but they were rendered unserviceable by repeated use.
Other students have a more favorible opinion. In the words
of Junior Richard Weaver, "Zollman’s? No shoes, no shirt,
no problem!"

No matter what a person thinks about Zollman’s, how-
ever, there does seem to be a basic consensus on the place:
the more drunk you are, the more fun you have.

So what is the mystique behind Zollman’s? Besides the
picturesque setting there are many things the pavilion has to
offer. .

For one thing it is practically immune from the noise
ordinances of Lexington’s’s finest. Furthermore, it is rela-
tively inexpensive and clean—up is included in the price.

So, despite the inconveniences, such as bathrooms and
finding sober drivers to brave the twisty Virginia roads
leading there, Zollman’s has proved itself worthy to the
college age set.

Waynlee Zollman, the current owner, is continuing the
tradition started by his father. Present at every party because
of his liability insurance, he comments in the W&L Alumni
Magazine article that he enjoys getting to know the students.
Both he and his father have seen many things over the past
3 decades.

However, for a place that has hosted such diverse musi-
cal groups that span the spectrum form Dionne Warwick to
Dave Matthews and has crowded in almost 30 years of
students and alumni, one thing will always remain the same:
W&L students have a grand social tradition and Zollman’s
is an integral part of it.

By COURTNEY E. MILLER

Phi Features Editor

Thursday night is a big television night at W&L. l have known students to
schedule “Mad About You,” “Seinfield,” and “ER” into their lives more regularly

‘ than English papers and math sets. Going all the way back to “Cheers,” Thursday
nights have always been there to lighten up life a little bit.

The hit sitcom “Mad About You” has a wide following of romantic fools who
enjoy laughing at the business of love and marriage. Paul Reiser, television
veteran of such shows as “My Two Dads” plays Paul, the other half of Jamie, in
“Mad About You.”

Paul Reiser is one of the new generation of comedians who has made the
successful transition from stand up to sitcom. Following the lead of others like
Jerry Seinfield, Reiser also recently published Couplehood, a book on his
humorous insights to dating and marriage.

Unlike many sitcom comedians, Reiser also made it to the big screen, most

recently in Bye Bye Love. lt is the story of three divorced dads and their
relationships with theri children, and ex-wives. Bye Bye Love also stars Randy
Quaid Matthew Modin and Janeane Garofalo. Reiser also had a bit part in
Beverly Hills Cop and in Aliens.

For the faithful followers of his Thursday night sitcom, “Mad About You”
many of Reiser’s comments and critique in Couplehood will sound familiar.
Reiser’s inspiration forthe show, as well as this book are based on his relationship
with his wife Paula.

/5.

Photo by Betsy Green,The Ring-tum Phi
Home to few, hell to many...Zollman's bathrooms

are the epitome of negligent housekeeping.

Mad about couplehood 

Paul Reiser jokes about chicken, movies, kissing and marriage

Reiser traces problems and adventures that occur when two people leave‘
behind singlehood for the ‘Next big Thing. Forever. The Final Frontier.’ in otheri
words, marriage. 1

Similar to Jerry Seinfield’sSeinlanguage,chapters seem to be more similar to’
a set ofjokes and experiences one would give on “An Evening at the lmprov.”.

Reiser has his own style of humor, and it shows through clearly in his book;
Couplehood, and in his character Paul on “Mad About You.” '

Be forewarned, this book does not begin on page one, but rather page 145.
Reiser loves being smack in the middle ofthe book. As he sees it, “Pages behind
me, pages ahead of me. lt’s too overwhelming to know there’s so much left and
you’re only on page eight.” . 7-

The book follows along the thoughts of its author, in a rather haphazard
manner. For avid fans of. “Mad About .You,”,Reiser’s voice seems narrate the

' words as 'hi‘s"book‘u‘n‘folds.",' rgéure Maggiotto w'fiotranscribed' and translated‘.

Reiser’s work‘ has done a magnificent job of keeping the essence of his humor in
the book. 1'
The chapters are arranged in a semblance of sticky encounters couples musi
negotiate as their marriage progresses along. lt all begins with the problem of
waking up together, and ends with the sentiment that marriage is actually a very
complicated dance that couples tango to for the rest of their lives. ,
The book goes rather quickly (especially since you start on page 145) and
provides many moments of laugh-out-loud pleasure. Do not read this book in at
public place where you can’t turn to your neighbor and read passages for them‘
to enjoy as much as you did.
The typical average W&L student isn’t married, and well Couplehood isn’t a rampant
disease on this campus, but aspects of Couplehood are very applicable to “singlehood.”J
Food is very important to everyone regardless of the commitment level of the;
relationship. “Socializing invariably involves food, and often, a bona fide meal;
Because you need the focal point. You can’t just walk back and forth between’;
two trees and chat. How would you know when you’re finished? That’s why you;

Scantily clad Scotsmen

 

Rob Roy — ll 1/2

Rememberlastfall’sFranken—
stein, with Robert De Niro and
Kenneth Branagh? Expectations
were very high forthat film — and
when it didn’t quite live up, it
seemed like a tremendous let
down, even though it was an OK
film. Rob Roy is in the same fix.

Robert Roy McGregor (Liam
Neeson) is the head ofa small but
proud clan of Scotsmen, who
have fallen under the control of
an annoyingly effeminate En-
glishman, the Marquis of
Montrose (John Hurt).
McGregor’s clan is having a
tough time ofit in the early eigh-
teenth—century, and survival from
one winter to the next is never
assured.

So Rob Roy hatches a plan to
borrow money from the Mar-
quis, buy some cattle with it, and
sell them for a tremendous profit,
thereby ensuring the clan’s sur-
vival for a few more years at
least. But into the middle of this
tidy little scheme jumps a bas-
tard being housed by the Mar-
quis, Archibald Cunningham
(Tim Roth).

Theresultingconﬂictbetween
Cunningham and Rob Roy pulls
in Mary McGregor (Jessica
Lange), Rob’s wife, as well as
the Duke of Argyll (Andrew
Keir), an opponent of the Mar-
quis.

The basic subject matter,
plot, and action of this ﬁlm is
one of its strongestpoints. The
Scottish people have a rich and
robust culture which lends itself
very well to a heroic film. The
misty, rolling Scottish High-
lands and the ancient stone
castles all look perfect in a
sweeping historical fiction.

Likewise, the supporting act-
ing is fantastic throughout. Tim
Roth (Reserv0irDogs, Pulp Fic-
tion) is absolutely brilliant as
the sneering, underhanded
Cunningham, bringing a very
believable thoroughness to his
character’s evil. Similarly good
are Eric Stoltz (Pulp Fiction,
Mask) as Rob Roy’s right-hand
man and John Hurt (Alien) as
the unjust Marquis.

So it is quite surprising that
theworstactinginthefilmcome
from its two leads, Liam Neeson
and Jessica Lange. Neeson won
great reviews for his role as
Oskar Schindler in last year’s
blockbusterSchindler ’sList, but
he was perhaps a bad choice for
this role. He has a sort of hu-
manity about him that makes
him more of an ordinary Joe
than a folk legend.

Jessica Lange was an even
greater disappointment. The
two-time Oscar winner (Tootsie
and this past year for Blue Sky)
forges through her lines like a

ship through choppy waters. I
know the eighteenth-century and
two children must be hard on a
woman, but she looks way too
old for this role.

And in many ways the script
is the problem. Little known

screen-writer Alan Sharp has‘

done a poor job, especially when
he puts words in the mouths of
the two leads.

Liam Neeson finds himself
speaking about honor in every
other sentence, usually in tired
phrases like “Honor is the gift
men give to themselves.” Simi-
larly, instead of the powerful,
sensual Jessica Lange we nor-
mally get, we are given someone
more akin to a made-for-TV Sally
Field role~herstrength andstub-
bomness seem only a facade, as
if she can merely out-bluff the
English. '

ln another similarity to
Branagh’s Frankenstein, there
seems to be an obsession in Rob
Roy with historical accuracy —

no one’s hair ever looks clean, ,

people are up—front about using
chamber-pots, and the love

scenes are positively earthy. That
might be fine for a PBS docu-
mentary, but heroes, especially
down-to-earth ones like Neeson,
have no business being histori-
cally accurate.

Director Michael Caton-
Jones, best known for Memphis
Belle, does a mediocre job with
this picture. The action scenes,
which are reasonably-well cho-
reographed, need a more re-
strained hand in the camera-work.
Some scenes get way out-of-
hand, such as the river escape
sequence, which drags on with
no development, reducing the
tension and excitement that
should be there.

Essentially, this film could
have been much better. With a
better script, some slightly better
direction, and a glossier, more
expensive production, this film
could have really knocked our
socks off. Instead, it just sort of
pulls them off a few inches at a
time. Don’t rush out to see Rob
Roy, but it wouldn’t be a com-
plete waste of money either.

learn something about yourself.”

Rating Scale

llll-Go by this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an instant
classic. “You’ll laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll

lll-Go see this ﬁlm now, while it’s still on the big screen. lt’s
worth a few Oscar nominations and the seven bucks you’ll pay if
you see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better than Cats!”
II-Okay, so there have been better films. Nevertheless, it is a good
example of its genre, and you should probably see it on videotape.

need food.”

Lenfest Center. . . . . .
May 9,11,16

  T:-xv Arl-$  

 

463-8000

Student Recitals

@ 8:00 pm,
(No tickets required)
May 1 9 — 2 2 Macbeth
May 26 Presidental Gala
State Theatre. . . . . . . . . . .463-3424

Rob Roy R

Don Juan Demarco PG-13

Top DoG PG-13

<3 fee "3 alley;

I Many

By COURTNEY F,. MILLER

Students Phi Features Editor
brave Amusement parks have been
thre e around since the late 1800's. They
were built for and by people who are
hour constantly seeking new thrills,a way
to reachthe edge ofterrorand survive
bus rlde to tell about it.
Busch Gardens located

inWilliamsburg, Virgina is one ofthe
largest Amusment parks in the United
States. lt is only threehoursfrom
W&L, and many ofthe students here
will be headed to seek their thrills on
Saturday, May 6. .

Michelle Richardson, Student

for the
thrills

of
Busch

' Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

l-It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off tomorrow’s
reading. Although your time would probably be better served on
your education, its free and you’re bored, so go ahead and watch it.
0-Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed harder,
trust me, this one sucks. Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t

waste it on this. (There’s always MTY.)

Gardens

Activities Coordinator organized a
school sponsored trip to Busch Gar-
dens. For $20 per person, students
recieve transportation there, and
admitance tickct..

"I thought it was a great deal con-
sidering that the facc value of the

ticket was $28.00. lam really excited
about going, After spending nine
months in Lexington the merry-go-
round at K—mart would be a thrill,"
said Bethany Bauman, class of 1998.

The bus leaves from teh Univer-
sity Center at 9:00 am and during the
three hourride,movieswillbeshown
on the bus.

The students will return around
midnight,which meansthey willmiss
the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic.
The traditions of this game began
eight years ago.

There were a limited number of
spaces availible for students, and all
availible space had ﬁlled by Wednes-
day.

"l could have filled two busses,
but I didn't know how many students

' would be interested in_the trip with so

many other social activities happen-
ing this weekend," said Richardson.

Thisisthefirstyearthissortoftrip
has been offered, and Richardsonis
hoping to offer the trip again next
year.

oucarra-Io . fd . . . pr. yr...-u-av.-v.».—.».. 4-owslwnﬁwnﬁiu-"I4-¢.~pV.-\"\*I.‘\«»'\-xv ..

 

 

 

     
       
       
 

To HELP WITH rnosr; EXAM BLUES APRIL 26TH THROUGH MAY 12TH

+ For shopping and getting 50% to 80% Off
The Best Quality
At UnBelievabIe prices EVERYDAY
17 S. Main St. 463-9730 Hours: Mon-Sat 9:30-5:30

  
 
 

    
  
  

your debts into one  
V .   easy-to-manage pa ent.
..BadciiedItnopmblem.AI.l.acceptedbasudon topay.
. Fur Itzurtls Just A Dunn: tau. hnvl
Calldayornlght1-305:-53:7-+3.§17,(24 mi ruzcoaniuei
A  D foryeurl-‘RBI-:APPIJCA11ONorwi1te:
. BOX 5u5._uou.¥uoon. FL 3302

.....x~.-. . I

  
      
     
       

  

 

FREE FINANCIAL AID

Attention All Students!
FREE Money is currently available for
College Students Nationwide. Over
$6 Billion in aid is now available
from private sector grants & scholar-
ships. All students are eligible to re-
ceive some sort of aid regardless of
ﬁades, income, or parent’s income.

ltl us help you. For more information
ca :

Student Financial Services
1-800-263-6495 ext. F53421

7/Tue‘?/a&¢e

HARDWARE STORES "

SkYDiVE ViR9iN 6A!

Train and make your first parachute
jump in one day. Skydive Virginias
staff has 30+ years instructional expe-
rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-
DIVE.

ALAS KA /
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Vaney
- Fishing Industry -
Students Needed! Earn up to '
$3,000-$6,000+/month. Many em-
ployers provide room & board & trans— _
portation. Male or Female. No expe— Hardware, Paint, and Related Items
rience necessary. Join thousands of
other students and enjoy the most beau-

“"1 Scenery the US‘ has to offer! Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
1-206-545-4155 ext A5342]

Student Employment Services 7 13- Nelson St’: Lexington 463-2186

       
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

    
    
      
    

     

Q'1‘UD7‘3‘ NTS: A
Last szhaiice this ykejar to buy: computer at IN&L prices;    

SEN1ORSi.i A 1200 sq. ft. apartment
Last chance this lifetime to buy a computer at W&L prices. 4 bedrooms’ 2 baths
family room & kitchen
private entrances
wraparound deck
scenic & quiet
call 464-1892 anytime

Ifyou want to take advantage of the university's discounts on Dell and
Apple Macintosh computers, there's no time to waste.

Academic Computing's Ruth. Floyd is available between 2:30 and 4:30 on
Tuesday and Thursday afternoons to discuss computer purchases.

Call 463-8847 or Slflld e-inuil to 1' I «‘r,~:l . 2 uiw I u . «.-« in .

     
   
  
  
 

We’ve Made It Easier For The Class Of ’95 To Drive The Class Of ’95.

THE ALL NEW TOYOTA TERCEL

Dual Air '

 
  

More Power

Mme Safetli Men/Women earn up to $480
F9atUl'eS Better Gas weekly assembling circuit

AND THETOYO G   RAD oe RAM. 

...Now With Special Financing As Low As 2.9% APR.’

There’s no better way to enter the work force than behind the wheel of the all-new, always dependable Toyota Tercel. Come write for the Pb.
And it’s easy with Toyota’s special college graduate program... just choose Toyota’s special financing or get Toyota.’s premier rate*, _ '
with no down payment, no payments for 90 days”, and a year of free roadside assistance. Just see your participating Toyota dealer for all the details. M°°“1[‘.gS 3&7 Pm
on UCS ays
5
WE RE MAKING IT EASIER FOR COLLEGE GRADS.
}§35iE‘iS$3S%%‘Z‘Dif§8§§3tl.§MEEEl’;‘;%”§i‘.l%E°J£Al.‘éL%ZSEES?p%%‘:f?S£E8l+%i%l82‘l£ §2§”£lf££’.‘Sf+.£33221:£l“;‘§§E‘éTii£‘sl?2_§:iEEfié‘Sii’Sill?iiililirJf.*T2“§uiE,ilS§B‘ffSt§‘liS§L”t‘i‘ll§‘lL$TiL5c¥l'$:éEZ§ii”§3Ri’2f§ill.$’iT‘?c?%f.’Z ®TOYOTA
AMOUNT FINANCED CANNOT EXCEED MSRP PLUS OPTIONS. TAX, AND LICENSE FEES. 24 MONTHLY DEA

PAYMENTS OF 542.94 FOR EACH $1.000 BORROWED

ADVERTISEMENT

PRE-EXAM WEEK SALE 7//427¢5P&790£5
EXTRA
20% STOREWIDE 7mm'm-to cued Séczdec

7? 5. zomclaéﬂé 5:.
TGIF Catalog Outlets 453-3742

  

The Ring-tum Phi, MAY 5, 1995

Come write for the Phi

Meetings at 7 pm
on Tuesdays

The Strike Movement

Student Activism and
the Vietnam War Era

A Discussion featuring:

Professor Mario Pellicciaro
Professor Brian Richardson
Patrick Hinely
Fran Lawrence
Henry Sloss

(former Professor of English)

Wednesday, May 10th
8:00 PM GHQ

sponsored by the Graham-Lee
Washington Literary Society

LER PARTICIPATION OF 5250 MAY AFFECT FlNAL PRICE. SEE PARTICIPATWG DEALER FOR DETAILS. ENDS 4-3-95.

'*‘no You Want VISA 3. MasterCard Credit Cards? fEA;;s-C;n;..B;x-ilﬁﬂg.-IEnl;H;o;.-Ffiiiaﬁ1 rtmemf0rRen
9 ° W‘ =....,.... £'.".a.t°;.‘.T3.'.:1?g“:.9etJ£'vT."«?:‘n'.f“u.‘i’i.”.é'.'.a'3 3 YES! immsnomnsrmcam-a-an I I
Vcﬂéttcul-gbtr-r'gif&"i°Au;EM'5f1T¢$VW gm Ml‘-‘.'"W. Wm : cuuuppmed muneuiaiely. mm ouanautium : 3 Blgevsvtnlggisrtson
.t...«.."'.§.‘a°.."..'3 ?.'..';'."u§"1'.‘a'.§olI§_°'i§‘»§l3i.°i‘r"'ri£i:m I ME I Apartment
si-oiu:s—1i:rnon-wreariiimi-:rrr— , , . . .
euenoeucv cAsu—'ricxi:1s—n.-:srAuiwris— ADDRESS Within Walking
- vHm1:i.s-Monte-ans-can RENTAl.s— ' ' .
REPAlR3—AND1‘0BU|l.DYOURCREDI'I‘RA'I‘lNGI : CYIY STAT!-:_.ZlP : Distance Of W&L
wmutﬁwmo :2 tmiamsg : PHONE _ 55-’ —----— : Campus
g cred t check I SIGNATURE -
“5gII|:“:¢‘o‘|$“: lo security deotsasitl ' uanzuacae-mun-eguaaau-aemmduaueuomunenuuuun '    After
"xi; 0,51 IIC SE” we coupon mo" I vnuinuqiuma (rIdeIlIrtidV|SAuSA.In:-.uIlVlsAhknIIotnl :  
in «sun ems   :  - _ - - .-

Student Apt.
Available

2 and 3 bedroom

From $280 to $405.

X side Door Call 463-1521

Impact Beams

HELP WANTED

Mueage boards/electronic components
at home. Experience unnec-
I essary, will train. Immediate
openings in your local area.
Call 1-602-680-7444

I Love What You Do For Me

 

  

.1 The Ring-tum Phi, May 5, 1995

Ellie ilting-tum Elﬂlit

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee .
Founded September 18, 1897

Winter Rush

Well, the fat lady has sung. Winter Rush is now a
fact. Let’s put the debates over student autonomy,
I faculty usurpation, and student oppression on the
shelf. We fought the good fight. We concede.
Today, let’s agree to make Winter Rush work——
* successfully. Fraternity members warned of dirty
rushing and a recruitment season that will last all Fall
Term. Smaller houses with a weaker financial base
V complain they will suffer because of the greater spend-
ing power of the larger houses.
These problems can be avoided, however. Those in
‘H’ fraternities must realize that playing by the rules will
be mutually beneficial. One upmanship can only hurt
everyone involved.
x This may seem like a tall order. After all, fraternities
have never played by the rules in the past. Perhaps
now is the time, more than ever, to start.

"‘ Gary Fallon

,, The sheer number of people in and around Lee
1' Chapel Wednesday morning is testament to the fact
that Gary Fallon will be greatly missed. We lost a true

V gentleman in every sense of Lee’s image.

They say death is for the living. The deceased has
gone on to a higher place, but the friends and family
remain on earth to pick up the pieces. There is

# something to which we can hold: Coach Fallon’s love
for life and excellence. Ask any member of the
Generals football team, or anyone who knew him for

' “I that matter, and they will tell you how wonderful and

gracious he actually was.

The Washington and Lee community lost a friend

' and role model last week. He can never be replaced.
However, the old maxim may comfort us: Time will
heal our pain.

I‘

     
   
   

  

OPINION “GE”
is HE ol</W?
WHAT DOES
2 THAT MEDICAL
L ' BRACELET sale if
F. _\
 Do ~01‘
’ TAKE To
 SToNEuJALl.
, ..» JACKSON
HOSPITAL-

  
    
     
    

  

‘Contract with America’ does not add up

 
 
  

MATTHEW
GRAVES, ’98

The “Contract with America” has
had unbelievable success in the House
of Representatives. Nine of the ten
points of the plan have been covered
and passed in the form of 30 bills. The
Republican juggernaut has been fu-
eled by the overwhelmingvictory that
the party had last November during
the elections. Looking back, on the
elections with 20/20 hindsight, how
could the Republican Party not win?
They promised to attempt to pass
bills which would cut taxes, increase
the size of the military and balance
the budget without cutting social se-
curity. Who wouldn’t want to see all
of these promises turned into law, if
they were economically feasible?
Almost everyone would probably
support these contentions. So the ques-
tion becomes, are these proposals
economically feasible?

I believe (and the numbers support
me) that these proposals are economi-
cally impossible. Let me explain.

In 1993, the federal government
collected roughly 1,154 billion dol-

lars and it spent 1,408 billion dol-
lars. If the Balanced Budget Amend-
ment would have been signed into
law, it would have required that the
federal government would only

them said they would do it without
touching Social Security, which costs
approximately 305 billion dollars.
Keep in mind that we must pay the
interest on the national debt, which is

spend 1,154 bil- around 199billion
lion dollars. dollars. In other

In order to ‘ words, the gov-
understand why ‘ ernment -must
it would be im- . spend 795 billion
possible for the In a tune when dollars, plus how-
government to the country needs evermuchthey in-
cut this much, creasetundlngfor

operating under
Republican cam-

lars worth of cuts coming from school
lunch programs and Affirmative Ac-
tion programs. Next they promised
to increase funding to the military,
which already costs roughly 291 bil-
lion dollars. Finally, when the Re-
publicans said that they would at-
tempt to balance the budget, many of

ﬁscal responsibil-
ity, what we are

the national de-
fense. The govem-

paigri promises,  ﬁom the merit, if the tax
r_ we must first . . . cutspass,willonly
takea look back .%¢U0T‘ltylIJ€U’ty 18 have 954 billion
at the “Contract nancia  dollars to spend.
with America.” - ThisleavestheRe-
First,theRepub- rnlckry and sham'e' publicanswith 169
lican Party less, hollow prom- billiondollars,and
promised to cut ' 9! ﬁguringthat Med-
1888. . . . .
taxes. The num- icald (131 billion
ber they decided dollars) is unlikely
on was roughly to get cut, this fur-
190 billion dol- ther reduces the

money to a mere 38 billion dollars.
That money would have to fund In-
come Security (which in 1993 cost
208 billion by itself!), education (yes,
this is where the money for the grants
which many of you have comes from),
energy, agriculture, national resources
and transportation, just to name a few

programs.

The problem with the “Contract
with America” is that it is too good to
be true. The Republicans want to have
their cake and eat it, too. It is ﬁscally
impossible to increase spending, re-
duce taxes, and take any serious action
on the deficit. Even the most strident
of supply-side economists would have
to admit that decreasing the budget by
500 billion dollars without touching
the military or Social Security would
be extremely difficult, even with the
spending and investment that a 190
billion-dollar tax cut might cause.
There would be a better chance of
Newt Gingrich walking across the
Potomac barefoot that of his party
balancing the budget under these con-
ditions.

In a time when the country needs
ﬁscal responsibility, what we are get-
ting from the majority party is ﬁnan-
cial gimmickry and shameless, hol-
low promises. This is a time when the
country needs its leaders to say that we
must mend our ways. The government
should be saying that the buck stops
here, and it is time that we pay for the
ﬁnancial mistakes that were made by
both parties in the past. For, in the end,
as usual, the taxpayers will be the ones
who will have to bail out the govem-
ment, and the longer we wait, the more
it will cost.

# Quote of the Week...

“Bring back Walter Cronkite.”

Visiting Professor Roger M udd on how to improve

the slipping standards of network news

is otherwise independent.

court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

‘I
‘I ~ ,, .
Lillie iﬁmg-tum 15111
Executive Editors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald

V Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Hewlett

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord, Cindy Young

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Christine Gamavish, Courtney Miller

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

'( Editorial Cartoonists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickinger

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenni Grant

“ Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

Advertising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University‘, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi’ Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

Electric Kool-Aid Hypocrite Acid Test

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

This week saw the “public lynching” (it’s cool
when this happens to black nominees, first, because
there are black nominees and second, because you
can call it a “public lynching” and everybody will
get all quiet and somber) of yet another nominee for
a top federal position. Henry Foster has been de-
nounced, defamed and denigrated in such mean-
spirited ways that no apology or excuse will ever be
able to repair the damage done to his reputation.

Sound familiar?

That’s right. The same people who got all riled
up over the Clarence Thomas/Anita Hill ﬂap are
now jumping all over Dr. Foster, apparently be-
cause they would now like to become President.
(This means you Bob Dole, and you too, Phil
Gramm. Behaving irresponsibly is no way to ingra-
tiate yourself with most voters.)

Dr. Foster’s crime? When asked about how
many abortions he had performed during his entire
three-decade career as a medical educator and ob-
stetrician/gynecologist, Dr. Foster, as he said dur-
ing his hearings, “answered based on my memory
without reviewing the record....But it was an honest
mistake. I am a doctor. I had never experienced
anything like the media scrutiny that I attracted
following my nomination. In my desire to provide
instant answers to a barrage of questions coming at
me, I spoke without having all of the facts at
my disposal...” _

His mistake was to indicate that he had per-
formed about 14 abortions. The record, when re-
viewed, revealed that he had actually performed
39. They were all performed upon his longtime
patients in a hospital for the health of the women
involved. This is not a crime. This is not immoral.
This is the practice of medicine, and those who do
not understand it should not be sitting in judgment
of it. '

While Judge Thomas was investigated for inci-
dents, true or not, for which there were actual
eyewitnesses, Dr. Foster is being punished and
humiliated in a similar way for what amounts to no
more than the moral equivalent of a typo.

Now I would like to reveal why I think the Anita
Hill incident was the best thing that could have
happened to Clarence Thomas. Hopefully, this will
shed some light on Dr. Foster’s situation as well.

You see, when Judge Thomas came up before the
Senate, his legal experience included three and a half
years as an assistant attorney general in Missouri,
some time as cousel to Monsanto, Inc., being an aide
to Senator John Danforth, service as chairman of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and 18
months as a judge on the District of Columbia circuit
of the U.S. Court of Appeals. The American Bar
Association rated him as minimally qualiﬁed, and
ranked him last out of all of the people who had been
nominated since 1955, including those who never
served on the Court because they were rejected by the
Senate as unﬁt to serve.

So you see, Anita Hill was the perfect shield for
Clarence Thomas’s scant qualiﬁcations to actually
serve as a Supreme Court justice. She had some
support for her allegations, but nothing airtight, or
even close. It allowed senators to say that they were
above such squalid ruriiors or accusations, while
dodging the question of his experience. Justice Tho-
mas should get down on his knees every night and
thank God for Anita Hill.

Which brings us to Henry Foster. Let’s hear what

he had to say in his own defense: “I have been a
medical educator for 30 years. In 1972...l had the
good fortune to become the youngest person ever
inducted into the National Academy of Sciences
Institute of Medicine....ln 1973, I was asked to chair
the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at
Meharry [Medical College]. Over the course of
three decades, I have taught hundreds of young men
and women who have gone on to become ﬁne
physicians....I have personally delivered thousands
and thousands of babies....In 1987 I began the I Have
a Future teen pregnancy reduction program in the
housing projects of Nashville, Tennessee....The pro-
gram is working....In 1989 the AMA awarded us
their Adolescent Health Award, and...in 1991 we
had the honor of being selected by President Bush as
one of America’s Thousand Points of Light—-
point 404.”

If Dr. Foster is not surgeon general material, the
ofﬁce should be abolished now.

And any senator who voted to confirm Clarence
Thomas and does not vote to conﬁrm Henry Foster
should be mercilessly ridiculed as a hypocrite.

     

xv

SEN. HAT -51" JB . I.

LEEP -I

‘. sllill.
$8 y

or did he just '3'BL6EP5
your 3BLEﬁ°5 ?

did he actually
our %8LEEP&.

Fr

] ie£LECZ~:Z‘....._.

 

A‘A'_v'v.‘A'n'9 w; A

._\.,_.‘. _ ,<.‘.__.

‘IEDREAM LAND

Richard Weaver

for learning all of the text on the candy
bar labels. This class could probably be
tied i in with Physical Education for
Non-Majors in that students could walk

phone bill from Centel, along with a
threat to kidnap your mother if you
don’t pay. Also, your long-distance
carrier sends you a bill. They really,

OPINION

 

Quest for fall term knowledge begins

the middle of trafﬁc, etc. The ﬁnal
exam would be parking the car on the
hedges in the Corral (as far as I know
it’s only been done once).

Madonna 1980-85 will take an
in-depth look at the early years of the
musical superstar. Topics of discus-
sion will include 1) The Fluctuating
Popularity of Madonna Bracelets, 2)
Living With Sean Penn, and 3) Perox-
ide.Text fortheclass will includevinyl
copies of Madonna and Like A Virgin
available (of course) at the Washing-
ton and Lee Bookstore.

Cops would be a ﬁeld course; stu-
dents would have to ride with the Lex-
ington Police one night a week and
ﬁlm them issuing littering citations,
checking to see if students know where
to throw away bamboo, etc. Students
would also be required to ﬁlm at least

The Ring-tum Phi, May 5, 1995 V

*‘.'.v_

“Good Enough.” For convenience,

L" class attendance for Daily Affirmation

would be taken by calling a recorded

4 message and leaving your name at the
-T beep. The professor would assume you
' would have better things to do than

I physically go to class.
Nutrition in the Co-op would

3? comprise learning the calorie and fat
 content of each item, with extra credit

while reading. To
get an A, students

to Stop-ln to do comparison studies. really want you to give them
, If you’re like me, and you regis- This would be extra credit. your money.
 tered for fall term classes, you had to The Litera- l’ve already
 ask yourself,shouldn’tthere be some- ture of Music doneextensivere—
 thing else on these yellow pages? You would include a C 6 search on accept-
3; know, courses you’d really want to demonstration on ing $50 from MCI
 take: something your parents could be how to purchase if we would leave
 proud of when they receive your S175worthofCDs Cops would be a AT&T, then ac-
 repggt ctgrdi I Id dd Id thegbopkstore 2:; field course; students gepting $35 from
3. e irs course wou a wou e eginning o ' print to leave
;2 be Physical Education for Non- the semester (in-  have t.o rlde MCI, and most re-
 Majors.This class would meet one stead of books), with the Lexington cently accepting
3 day avyeek, nogrequire you to chtange ﬁharge d thhem Police one nlght a i$60froSmAT&1"1;1to
;: yours oes, an encourage you 0 S1 ome, an en eave print. is
3 still. Breaking a sweat would insure borrow your week‘  would decision was also
 an A. friend’s books also be required to partially based on
 Another good course would be to read. the AT&T
 Dally Affirmation; it would be one Studentswould ﬁlm at ,leas,t ﬁve . Whitney Houston
 ofthosecourseswhere if you didn’t get be required to lis- domestic disputes in commercial; The
 a grade; your transcript would read ten to their CDs trailer pa,-ks_” student with the

highest payoffs at
the end of the se-

must be able to
sing along as
they read.

Communication Economics
would be a guide to attracting long-
distance carriers to give you money.
For those of you would live off—cam—
pus, you know the thrill of getting your

mester gets an A+.

A d v a n c e d

Parking would be a seminar course in
that itcould only accommodate as many
people as would ﬁt in a car. The profes-
sor and students would cruise Lexing-
ton, parallel parking and pulling in and
out of the Harris Teeter parking lot in

ﬁve domestic disputes in trailer parks.
Advanced students would take Cops
in Buena Vista.

The natural class for pre-law stu-
dents would be Cops’ follow-up course,
L.E.X. Law. Students would repre-
sent each other in Rockbridge County
court, after using their tuition money to
buy themselves lunch and a nice car to
drive around in. Students would have
to wear a lot of pastels and carry
cellular phones.

Well, there’s always Drop/Add.

v‘v‘v‘v\r 9,1,1 v.7 v v_v v_v

-: '«'-: ;-.'-:~:~.-:~:~. -2

.3 To the editor:

4 For Leadership class, I recently read “The Parable
1; of the Sadhu,” a true story about a group of climbers
<5 hiking in the Himalayas who happened upon an
 unconscious sadhu or holy man. The men were on the
A adventure of a lifetime, determined to overcome a
" difﬁcult mountain pass. Rather than take the sadhu to
j a safe place, they gave him clothes and food, leaving
‘ him by a meager hut to fend for himself while they
" pressed on with their hike. Whether the sadhu lived or
not is unknown. However, the story highlights the
passive injustice of the climbers, none of whom took
ultimate responsibility for the sadhu’s welfare. in-
deed, one climber even complained, “What right does
an almost naked pilgrim who chooses the wrong trail
have to disrupt our lives?”

In Lexington, Va., the sadhu is all around us. He is

- v_a - -,v.v .
\‘\.

'_.<.u',.

or role model to look up to. He is the girl in elementary

. Ev‘; '- "x Tv'.~'.-r'r“-'.< ',9

 school without a tutor tohelp her understand how_to_

read. He is the old man without a bed to lie on or a
,. house to sleep in. He is the young woman who has a
,1 deadly disease but no cure to save her. The sadhu is

the teenage boy from a broken home withouta friend 

LETTERS

all around us, for he is everyone who has ever needed
a little help, a little warmth, a little friendship, a little
compassion from those around him.

Yet the sadhu need not, will not suffer. For civili-
zation is marked by the reign of service. After all, it is
the giving of self that forms collective action which
allows wondrous and amazing deeds. it is service
alone that allows heroes to emerge from the masses of
ordinary men. Look at your classmate, the one who
serves as a Big Sister. She is no different from you or
I but behold the look of admiration that greets her
when she arrives for her visit with her “little.” There
is no doubt that she is a hero in the truest sense ofthe
word. And what of the classmate who is a Brother of
Alpha Phi Omega. He carries himself no differently
than you or I and yet his heart burns with a sense of
pride and purpose that outshines the brightest of stars.
Those two people, nay all those who have ever given

*a* little-‘something bf themselves that ‘another might
K beneﬁt are all a part of this wondrous reign of service.
It is ,service_ that paves the relations which form and
maintain society and in turn, civilization. Without
service, life would once more be “nasty, brutish, and
short.” The state of nature would reign again and

Civilization marked by ‘reign of service’ 1

worse, for during the ﬁrst state of nature there were no
Uzis, no man-made viruses, no atomic bombs.

Several men bomb a federal building in Oklahoma
City and we fear that society has fallen into a depth
from which it shall never emerge. But look at the
people, the countless hundreds, who actively helped
with the search for the missing among the rubble.
Look at the thousands more who contributed time,
money and supplies so that the survivors might re-
build their lives. And look at the millions more who
prayed that the survivors would press on, despite their
tragedy, and that the perpetrators of the bombing
would be brought to justice. The terrible deeds of the
few cannot, must not overshadow the beautiful and
selﬂess deeds of millions more.

For the reign of service, the age of civilization, is
about each one of us looking beyond our self-inter-
ests, looking to those all around us. it is about all the
races and creeds of humanity joining together with a
common and noble purpose. It is about you and me,
two strangers, two allies, two friends, combining our
efforts to better the world and the people in it.

Paul Saboe, ’97

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Calyx

Students interested in free ’91,’92
and ’94 copies of the Calyx may
pick them up outside the Calyx of-
ﬁce in the University Center.

CDPO Workshops

There will be an internship work-
shop Monday, May 8 at 4 p.m. in the
CareerDevelopment and Placement
Ofﬁce. There will also be a Career
Focus Workshop Tuesday, May 9 at
4 p.m. in Room 109 of the Univer-
sity Center. All students are invited
to attend.

Face Book

Student organizations interested
in advertising in the Freshman Face
Book should contact Emily Giannini
at 462-4941 for more information.

Foreign Affairs

The Foreign Affairs Club will
have an organizational meeting
Tuesday, May 9 at 8 p.m. in C-
school room 221. For more infor-
mation, call lstvan Majoros at 462-
4202.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present the documen-
tary The Wonderﬁd, Horrible Life
of Leni Riefenstahl in English and
German 8:05 p.m. in the Trouba-
dour Cinema Friday and Saturday,
May 5 and 6. Riefenstahl was Hitler's
propagandist and has been called
the greatest female ﬁlmmaker of all
time. Her Triumph of the Will has
been called the greatest propaganda
ﬁlm of all time. The mounted post-
ers which have been on display in
the lobby of the Troubadour will
also be sold for $10, $20 and $30.

Financial Aid

All Class of ’95 federal student
loan recipients should attend a group
Exit Interview to be held Wednes-
day, May 10 from 5-6 p.m. in the
Northen Auditorium of the Leybum
Library. The Exit interview is re-
quired by the federal government
for all student load borrowers be-
fore they are cleared for graduation.
Any questions should be directed to
the Financial Aid Ofﬁce at
463-8715.

Marshall Lecture

Col. John W. Ripley, USMC
(Ret.) and president of Southern Vir-
ginia College, will be the speaker
for the second Marshall Lecture of
the year on Monday, May 8 at 7:30
p.m. in the Forrest C. Pogue Audito-
rium at the George Marshall Foun-
dation in Lexington. His topic will
be “Marshall in Victory.” The pub-
lie is welcome. For more informa-
tion, call 463-7103.

Outing Club

The new Outing Club schedule
will feature climbing Mondays,
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1-5
p.m. Students should call Betsy
Treadway at 463-4761. Kayaking
will be Wednesdays from 7-9 p.m.
at the old pool. Those interested
should call Kevin Batteh at 464-
8837. Men’s biking and canoeing is
coming soon. The equipment room
hours (for tents, sleeping bags,
stoves, packs, etc.) are Mondays
from 2-4 p.m. and Thursdays from
3-5 p.m., or call Kim Stoner at 462-
4075. ln addition a hike to the Priest
will be Saturday, May 6 at 10 a.m.
Call Bill Murray at 462-4066 for
more information.

'. .'.’.'.‘.{.".‘L'T"-. Q‘.

sexual intent.

Washington and Lee.

the appeal.

Student Body Notice

On April 23, 1995, the Student-Faculty Hearing Board
heard and deliberated a case of alleged sexual misconduct at
Washington and Lee University. The SFHB found a Wash-
ington and Lee student in violation of University policy
regarding sexual misconduct, including unwanted sexual
contact, forced sexual contact and physical assault with

The Student-Faculty Hearing Board suspended the stu-
dent from the University until the Fall Term 1996.
Readmission would be contingent on the recommendation
of the Chairman of the SFHB based on certification by a
University counselor and a counselor external to the Univer-
sity. During the suspension, the student is banned from

The accused appealed the decision of the SFHB to the
University Board of Appeals. On May 2, 1995, the Univer-
sity Board of Appeals reviewed the appeal and voted to deny

Carnival thanks

To the editor:

I want to thank those of you in the
W&L (and Lexington) community
who attended the Campus Carnival
on Friday, April 21! We raised $378,
which will be distributed to the local
chapter of the American Cancer Soci-
ety and the Outing Club to purchase
some of the rain forest in honor of
Earth Day ’95. The Carnival was a
great success and so much fun!

l must mention and applaud the
many volunteers and workers who
assisted me in making this all pos-
sible: Dean Howison and Dean Atkins
for the money budgeted, the Business
Ofﬁce, work/study students Danielle
Mires, Elizabeth Weaver and Brian
Hucks, great posters by Denise Watts
and Mary Woodson, sanity from Carol
Calkins, fun, food and ﬂexibility by
the D-Hall and Catering Staff, er-
rands by Amy Blackburn, Chris Albert
and Baner, sumo-helper Noelle
Parrott, clowns Barbara Mollica,

. Nejma Petit, Amy, Whitney, Melissa

and Jeannette, Brian Shaw and SAB
for their sound systems, Matt O’Brien
and Tadzia GrandPre for volleyball
(?!), game booths with MSA, Intema-
tional Club, Catholic Campus Minis-
try, Dorm Counselors, Resident Ad-
visors and Freshman Leadership
Council, the Outing Club with the
dunk tank, APO for face-painting,
ticket sales, helium balloons, etc.,
workers Dave Marsh, Jack Thorn and
Ben Jones, donations from local mer-
chants, Brian Boland for set-up, mu-
sic by Robin Howe, Josh Billings,
Cooper Harriss, the Outsiders, Maria
Juanita and the Skinny Freakys, and
most importantly Randolph Hare and
Buildings and Grounds! Thank you
especially for your patience, coopera-
tion and conﬁdence in the sun! Thank
you all (anyone else I failed to men-
tion individually who helped out!) for
your motivation and dedication. it is
very much appreciated!

Michelle Richardson
Student Activities Coordinator

Letters correction

in the April 28 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, a letter to the editor from
Joseph B. Framptom ran under the headline, “Faculty, administrative
breaches of student autonomy have gone too far.” In the published letter,
the statement should have read, “We students have successfully run our
own student activities for at least the past four years, and we donot need
to be told what to do now.” The mistake was the result of interpolation by
the typist and incomplete proofreading. The Phi apologizes to Joseph B.
Framptom for the error and any confusion it may have caused.

 

The Ring-tum Phi  

The onlg reading
goulldo all Sprin

Term.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 5, 1995

ADVERTISEMENT

HEIIISTGGIBI  

MEANS LOW PRICES

First Of The Season

California
awberrres

   
 

Three In One Pack
Fresh _
Stra wberrresea.

California
Strawberries_

.13 2"’

Sara Lee

  
  
 

 

Buy one Lite“

Reddi Wip

Topping _ 7oz.
Floridagold
Orange

Juice

29

In The Bakery
if Angel Food
cake

MT

Free

_, Original Or
1 Old Fashion

PEP%

T

Pepsi Or Digt
Pe st
2 tr. .

iiiiiuulliliiltli ‘t l‘

  Selected Varieties
Nabisco Ne wtons

99

Regular Or

{

 

Topps All Beef
Ham_burger
f ‘ Patties _24 oz.

Harris Teeter

Quality Dessert 69
ggggﬁeter 2-Ply5/ 0
Towels 61.8 sq. ft.

Prices Effective Through April 25, 1995

125, 1995 in our Lexington store
ealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

4 ** Selected Varieties
Gatorade _s4 oz.

179

This Ad Effective Wedn
serve The Right To Limi

The 1996 Republican Mock
Convention would like to thank all of
its sponsors for the Spring Kickoff:

Contact
IFC
Panhellenic

Politics Department
Young America's Foundation

I Federalist Society
Intercollegiate Studies Institute

We regret not mentioning Panhellenic
g in pthelintroduction speepchp, p I

      

Going Home?

Well package and ship all gour
clothing. computers. books. and
whatever else gou don't have
room for or dont want to haul.
Call us for more info. I

PACK AND MAIL  
I MAILING CENTER
“MAILING SERVICES T 0 FIT YOUR BUSY LIFESTYLE ”p

    
     
    
       
           

° UPS ° COPIES-FAX

° U.S. MAIL ° MAILBOX RENTALS
° OVERNIGHT DELIVERY ° GIFT WRAPPING

° INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY ° KEYS

   
 
 

° PACKAGING SERVICE/SUPPLIES ° NOTARY

   

IN THE ROCKBRIDGE SQUARE SHOPPING CENTER
NEXT TO SUBWAY & MCDONALD’S
PHONE: 463-7740 ° FAX: 463-1073

WE SELL MOVING BOXES V

      
   

L} _ V _4_,__.,__, , U  W_____, W I ~m .,,,‘.,,‘____ ___.,,,,,._,J__;,_i_.,‘,\.;.44i_~,,r_,p_::_;.;_-3--..r~..., ,, ms...  , ._.

 

 

 

Last Week:

MLACROSSE - L, 13-7 at Washington Coll.
WLACROSSE - W, 9-4 vs. Lynchburg
L, 12-7 to Roanoke

S

(I112 ‘ﬂing-mm lﬂhi

PORTS

This Week:

MLACROSSE - at VMI 2:00PM
(Lee- Jackson Classic)
M, WTRACK - Sat at No. Carolina Invit.

(ODAC Tournament) WTENNIS - Next week at Division III
NITENNIS - L, 7-0 to Washington Coll. Championships (Sweet Briar)
PAGE 8 BASEBALL, GOLF, TENNIS, TRACK, LACROSSE MAY 5, 1995

   
     
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
        
    
    
      
  
    

goo
 __  ':.»'H0w¢ver.. 322,
»:f}. coaching may;ha" ; m,
-I last fali. ‘W&L’ mbiea
 0ut“‘of: the —°:at¢s. f T ‘
 Many squ&dsfvé.ou1d--

etc d’ ' f it

 

  

:.Aaar'sa::¢asmt
:.—14j'-1'1,_5= victor

  

ilinet have  
 However,‘ . along‘ with... V

homevi%=rthe_ne‘ :.;¢oach 
m8yb§.next;S¢ii$bn;F.‘ 
, ilberoamingath ' .
li“°$»f00- Dvfiiiahbrm
;; game, i1is,itio,tivati’o,na

 presencewillbéfel ‘  A

    

if-Yen‘always win; 7   

     
    
   
   

    
   
   
  

Lax falls to Roanoke in ODAC final

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

All good things must come to
an end. Thus, the careers of six
Generals who participated in
three conference tournament
championships, winning two,
came to an end last Saturday on
the Liberty Hall Fields.

W&L was beaten, 12-7, by
archrival Roanoke College in the
ﬁnal of the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference women’s la-
crosse tournament.

The Generals had won the
regular season contest, 11-10, to
earn home-ﬁeld for the tourna-
ment. The Maroons, however,
came to Lexington and played a
near-perfect game to earn their
sixth ODAC championship.

Seniors Sarah Aschenbach,
Lindsay Coleman, Dana Cornell,
Meredith Long, Carrie Niederer,
and Nicole Ripken were quite
familiar with the matchup. They

had been a part of six previous
W&L-Roanoke battles. Four of

the contests had been one-goal
Generals victories; two which
decided the regular season cham-

pion and two forthe ODAC tour-
nament championship.

The Generals and Maroons
were ranked 11th and 12th, re-
spectively, entering the game, so
it was unlikely either would earn
a bid to the eight-team NCAA
Division III tournament.

Fittingly, the teams’ eleven
combined seniors would face—off
in the ﬁnale of their careers.

“[bosing] was sad,” said Long,
“but it was the best possible
matchup we could have had.”

Cornell, who assisted on
Long’s ﬁnal goal that had brought
the Generals to within 7-4, said
that after having avenged the
team’s regular season loss to
Lynchburg the previous day, the
Maroons were tops on Washing-
ton and Lee’s hit list.

“We definitely wanted
Roanoke,” Cornell said. ,“We
were so excited to beat
Lynchburg, and Roanoke was the
team we wanted next.”

The Generals had beaten
Lynchburg, 9-4, in Friday ’s semi-
final behind three goals from
Ripken and two goals from
Lorraine Taurassi.

Following that game, the

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Maroons rolled over Randolph-
Macon in the other semifinal by
a score of 14-8.

W&Lﬁnished 10-5 forafour-
year 44-18 record. Roanoke
ended the 1995 campaign with a
record of 12-4.

The Generals met Roanoke in
the 1992 and 1993 champion-
ships and won both in two ofthe
most exciting games in W&L
lacrosse history.

In ’92, the Generals came from
a goal behind during the over-
time session for a 10-9 win at
Roanoke,theirﬁrstwineverover
the Maroons.

In ’93, W&L earned the right
to host the ODAC Final Four
with another overtime win at
Roanoke, then took the champi-
onship, 7-6, on (this is the ﬁnal
timeI’lleverwritethis!)Ripken’s
last-second goal. That win earned
W&L its ﬁrst trip to the NCAA
Division III tournament.

On Saturday, the skies were
clear at the Liberty Hall Fields,

though acloud already hung over
W&L as news spread of the death

that morning of head football
coach Gary Fallon. Fans that had
heard the news were mostly som-

The W&L women's lacrosse team capped a successful 1995 season by
ﬁnishing with a record of 10-5, and a visit to the ODAC tournament ﬁnal.

Men’s tennis ends
10-9 campaign

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L men’s tennis team concluded another winning season
Saturday, ending the 1994-95 school year with a 10-9 record.

This year was the first time in eleven years that the team did not
finish at the top ofthe ODAC standings, but the Generals never gave
up in this year’s tournament, which occurred during the weekend of

April 21-22.

The team stayed within reach of a victory until the ﬁnal round,
where they were nudged out by just two points for the team champi-

onship by Lynchburg.

“I think we had some good performances. We’re a little disap-
pointed to let one [ODAC title] slide, but I think we had a respectable
performance, given the number of kids we lost from last year,” head

coach Gary Franke commented.

On the bright side, W&L took three individual position titles, and
each position player advanced to at least the seminﬁnal round.

Junior Ryan Aday gave the Generals their only singles title at 3rd
singles, defeating Lynchburg’s top-seeded player by a ﬁnal count of

6-4, 6-4.

He also combined with fellow junior Clay Richards at 3rd doubles

to win the title at that position.

The Generals’ other position win came at 1st doubles, where
W&L’s top two singles players, juniors Chris MacNaughton and
Jesse Taylor, combined to win it all. '

For his achievements, Aday was named as the Generals’ male

Athlete of the Week last week.

During the ODAC tourney, Aday took revenge on two players he
had lost to during the regular season, where he ended with a record

of 13-11 overall.

Aday also posted a stellar 12-3 regular season record at 2nd

doubles with Richards.

MacNaughton also provided some tournament highlights, despite
going into his 1st singles tournament seeded just sixth.

He defeated the 3rd seed from Hampden-Sydney in three sets, then
knocked off the 2nd seed from Eastern Mennonite to advance to the

tournament ﬁnals.

In the title match, MacNaughton lost a heartbreaker in a 3rd set tie-
breakerto ODAC Playerof the Year Kevin Pendergrast from Guilford.
This past Saturday, the Generals continued their tough schedule,
playing against the Division III defending national champion Wash-

ington College.

W&L looked to finish its season on a winning note by upsetting

the Shoremen on the road.

Unfortunately, Washington College showed their mettle, hand-

ing the Generals a 7-0 defeat.

Nonetheless, the Generals have much to look forward to, since
they return all of their starting lineup for next year.

When asked for his prognosis, Coach Franke added, “We’re
hopeful. We’ve got [Pete] Hammond and [Andy] Horen coming
back from Europe, and maybe we’ll get a few recruits too.

"We’ll have a competitive team next year.”

W&L can only look forward to the Generals’ charge to recapture
the ODAC championship next season.

ber, yet the turnout to support the
Generals was strong.

Roanoke’s fans got to cheer
first as Lisa Franzino netted her
first of two goals six minutes into
the game.

Though W&L junior Cinnie
Logan responded quickly with a
game-tying goal, the Maroons
scored the next three en route to
a 5-2 lead at halftime.

The Generals got close, but
never could get even. Long’s
second-half goal was followed
three minutes later by freshman
Lorraine Taurassi’s ﬁrst of two
goals to cut the score to 7-5.

Roanoke goalie Kathleen
Ostar was outstanding in net the
rest of the way. With the Ma-
roons up by 10-6 with 4:22 left,
Ostar stopped repeated shots by
W&L, including several point-
blank opportunities.

Only freshman Whitney
Parker could ﬁnd the back ofthe
net to make it 10-7 with only
2:32 remaining.

Ostar ﬁnished with 16 saves.
many of them coming in those
ﬁnal minutes. W&L’s Brooke
Glenn was also solid in goal,
stopping 20 shots.

Coleman, Long, and Ripken
scored one goal apiece, while
Roanoke senior Francesca Foord—
Kelcey scored twice, and class-
mate Laurel Krebs pitched in with
two assists.

The goals by Coleman and
Ripken gave each 112 for their
respective careers, leaving them
tied for third on the school’s all-
time list.

Yet, on “senior day” it seemed
that the freshmen who will con-
tinue the rivalry dominated the
scoring. Roanoke’s Ali Ogelsby
had three goals and one assist.
Taurassi, who netted two after
older sister Cheryl left with an
injury in the second-half, and
Parker combined for W&L’s ﬁ-
nal three scores.

Despite the loss, the Generals
are pleased with their season as a
whole, especially after coming
off of last season’s frustrating 8-
7 record.

“It was a pretty positive year,
a good rebuilding year,” said
Cornell. “Overall, we feel good
about the season.”

Ktztxon I‘ lbw) 15 Z

 

'Il'.1s1\:

 ,m,,3,;t, ‘~\"t\Ei'=::“.ti.t).

3995 Division Ell Women's '1‘ tnnis (‘hampiomhips
Team Sraelict

 

.:,H/,_}uxzas'xti. ~4n§;>hus (Kline)? l-I-is

u_;3_:'.‘a_..f

 

 

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Washington & Lee will be the
nation’s third seeded team when
the NCAA Division III women’s
tennis championships open up
on Tuesday.

This marksthe second straight
year and the third time since 1991
that the team has earned a trip to
the nationals.

The tournament runs from
May 9 to 15 and is being hosted
this season by nearby Sweet Briar
College. ‘

The Generals (1 8-1)will make
the short trip over the mountain
Tuesday to take on Skidmore
College (14-3) in the
tournament’s opening round at
8:30 AM.

Head coach Cinda Rankin is
excited, yet cautious about the
Generals ﬁrst-round opponent.

“Anyone at this level is
tough,” said Rankin. “We don’t
know much about them, but
they’re young and up-and-com-
1n .”
gW&L’s #1 singles player
Marilyn Baker has previously
faced Skidmore’s top player,
Jamie Levine.

Baker beat Levine, 6-3, 6-0,
in the consolation match of the
Rolex National Championships
this past fall, earning a third-
place finish.

Rankin saidthatbuses willbe
running from W&L to Sweet

The tournament bracket for the tennis nationals

Briar for all Generals’ matches.
The schedule is being coordi-
nated by the W&L Sports Infor-
mation Office (463-8674), but
the bus for Tuesday’s match is
expected to leave at 7:30 AM.

Last year, W&L entered the
tournament as the number-two
team, but was beaten in the
quarterﬁnals by Williams and
ﬁnished sixth.

With a win Tuesday, the Gen-
erals would move on to face the
winner of the Amherst-Sewanee

game on Wednesday.

Amherst (19-1) is the east
region’s number—one team, hav-
ing beaten Williams College ear-
lier in the year.

Sewanee was the Generals’
final opponent before last
month’s Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament. W&L
took the match, 5-4, to virtually
secure a top-four seed for the
NCAA tournament.

The five-time defending
ODAC champs look to be on a
collision course for an opportu-
nity to avenge their lone defeat
and meet the nation’s top-seeded
team, Kenyon College (15-2), in
Thursday’s semifinal.

W&L fell to Kenyon, 5-4, in
March while playing without two
of its top singles players.

Freshman Natalia Garcia, the
nation’s 11th-ranked singles
player, was competing for her
native Dominican Republic that
week in the Federation Cup, fe-
male tennis’ equivalence of the
Davis Cup.

The Generals’ ODAC cham-
pion last year at third-singles,
junior Shelley Sunderman, was
injured before the Kenyon match,
and she did not return until late in

Women depart for tennis nationals

the season.

Among W&L’s other regular
season opponents in the 14-team
tournament are Emory (W&L
won, 5-4) and previous national
number-one squad, Williams
(W&L won, 7-2). Emory was
one of the two schools to beat
Kenyon this year.

The championship match will
be scheduled for next Friday at
10:00 AM.

A pair of Generals will then
begin play in the singles and
doubles competition. _

Senior Marilyn Baker is
ranked number-five in the coun-
try after posting a 26-3 record.
This is her fourth trip to nation-
als, where she advanced to the
quarterﬁnals in 1993. The three-
time ODAC Player of the Year
finished third in that fall’s Rolex
National Championships.

Garcia will also compete in
singles, in addition to teaming
with Baker in doubles. The duo
with a match record of 22-3 is
ranked third'in the nation, and
they placed third at the Rolex
Championships.

The seedings for both singles
and doubles will be announced

next week.

    

Filc Photo

Senior Marilyn Baker will lead the 18-1 women's tennis squad into
next week's NCAA Division III championships at Sweet Briar College.

‘9

 

