 

mirne  LE~(€viJFN Ll  *.=
ix:-' ’&t'!Hli\§n’§'I".3'.~: & L5! i.mvms»: rt
um‘-tam» vs wan

 
  

Illil‘ it  1994

EDITION

\X/omens Tennis  
Continues   
winning tradition

 

Where to take
your parents
over the weekend

 

9

f Uh iting-tum iﬂlii

an
VOLUME 94, NO. 6 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA OCTOBER 14, 1994

  
      
  
  

' I

plllllllllli
!!!!!!!!!!§e’

ﬁunuurg

rearing for a feral

"  : .2‘; .
Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Pm

Buildings and Grounds workers wrap the columns of the Colonnade in black ribbons to com-

memorate the 124th anniversary of Robert E. Lee's death. W&L junior Kirk Susong was respon-
sible for convincing the school to recreate the look Was
A ceremony marking the occasion held in Lee Chapel on Wednesday. Speakers included Captain
Robert Peniston, Director of Lee Chapel, Dr. 1. Taylor Sanders, Professor of History and Univer-
sity Historian, and A. Preston Russell, M.D.

hington Hall had in 1870 for Lee's funeral.

 Coeducation Report finished

Non-discriminatory admissions recommended

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

The Coeducation Committee report is
ﬁnally completed, having concluded that
coeducation has helped the school, but a
continuation of the 60/40 male/female
ratio will hurt the school through
gender discrimination.

President John Wilson formed the com-
mittee to study whether the university pro-
videsacomfortableenvironmentforwomen.

Overall, the report found that coeduca-
tion has had a positive effect on the univer-
sity. Since W&Lwent coed in 1985, average
SAT scores have increased. The school has
become more selective in its admissions,
accepting only 30 percent of applicants.
Because of the 60/40 ratio, 75 percent of
female applicants are in the top 10 percent of
their class as compared to 50 percent
of males.

Wilson said the 60/40 ratio was instituted
as a transition from an all-male school to a
co-ed school.

“You need to have a little ﬂexibility and

Princeton Review finds
strong Greeks, alcohol

avoid emotional terms such as discrimina-
tion,” said Wilson. “A certain amount of
intelligent guessing is necessary in dealing
with these matters.”

Co—chairman Professor Pam Simpson
agreed, but she said the transition is over.

“The next phase should be one where
there is greater balance,” she said.

The report also reveals the dominance of
fraternities in social activities. Simpson said

women have little power in planning social"

events. She said the same problem also ap-
plies to independent men.

“A lot of women feel like they’re guests
of the fraternities,” Simpson said.

Simpson said the committee recom-
mended that the university should continue
to encourage alternative social outlets.
Simpson said the committee also suggested
a new student center be considered. She said
she applauded the hiring of Student Activi-
ties Coordinator Michelle Richardson.

Simpson said the most disturbing aspect
of the report involves the alcohol survey. She
said it is a fact that W&L’s social interactions
tend to revolve around alcohol. An alcohol
survey was administered during SpringTerm

ciate that commitment.”

1993. (See related article, page 1)

Simpson said the committee studied how
women alumni have given to the Annual
Fund compared to men who have graduated
since 1989. The committee found that women
gave more money than men. Although more
men gave in the Capital Campaign, women
who did give donated more money than
the men.

The report also found that Commerce
School majors have dropped since Coeduca-
tion while the Humanities have increased.
English and Journalism are the most popular
majors of W&L females. Simpson said she
has no explanation for this phenomena.

Wilson said he was impressed by the
amount of information culled from different
aspects of the school. He said the report is
testimony to the progress theschool has made
during coeducation.

“We’ve come a long way in nine years, “
he said. “I don’t think there are any apologies
needed for the goals we’ve met.”

Simpson agreed.

“We really document a success story, “
she said, “but we also ﬁnd there are areas that
need attention.”

Alcohol Survey
released, shows

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

“Work Hard ——- Play har .”

The unofficial motto of Wash-
ington and Lee University rings
truer than ever in the wake of the
release of the 1993 Alcohol Sur-

vey results. In fact, the report may
indicate students are playing ex-
tremely hard.

The results illustrated that al-

cohol plays a very large role in
campus life. When asked how
many times students had con-
sumed ﬁve to 10 drinks in one
drinking episode in the past year
(1992-1993), 53 percent of the
respondents answered over 10
times. 29 percent of those sur-
veyed admitted to drinking on
average six to nine drinks during
any given drinking period. 35 per-
cent of respondents said they had
passed out from drinking at least
once during the 1992-1993 aca-
demic year. Additionally, 35 per-
cent said they had suffered black-
outs or memory losses due to ex-
cessive drinking. Finally, 28 per-
cent had admitted to being a pas-
senger in a car with a driver who
was drunk.

There were clearly identiﬁable
patterns illustrated in the report.
For example, Greeks tended to
drink more than Independents, and
no distinction could be made
between varsity athletes
and non-athletes concerning
drinking patterns.

Results also show that male
students tended to drink more than
their female counterparts. The
report cited, “34.7 percent of
W&L males report that on big
party weekends they consume 15
drinks or more. Only 8.5 percent
of the females report alcohol con-
sumption at that level.”

The report also points out that
one in six students report having
been taken advantage of sexually
while under the inﬂuence. One in
every ﬁve students indicate they
have participated at least once in
unsafe sex as a result of drinking.
Also, one in ﬁve have admitted to
driving while drunk at least once.

Finally, 90 percent of W&L stu-
dents say they consume alcohol
regularly and consistently.
The North Carolina
Govemor’s Institute on Alcohol
and Substance Abuse, an inde-
pendent organization, visited
W&L in Spring Term of 1994
and attempted to “assess the role
of alcohol in the University com-
munity.” Among their observa-
tions was “alcohol use and abuse
is a strong tradition at Washing-
ton and Lee.” They also indi-

- cated, “Alumni attitudes toward

the support of a continuing,
strong drinking tradition appear
to be very strong.”

In accordance with their ob-
servations, the Govemor’s In-
stitute team provided the school
with a list of recommendations
in dealing with alcohol abuse.
Among these recommendations
were to require students involved
in alcohol related incidents or
arrests to receive substance
abuse evaluation by a trained
professional, to provide for a
substance abuse counselor, and
to increase teaching to students
about overall health mainte-
nance. They also urged the Presi-
dential Search Committee to
look for applicants with an ad-
equate awareness of alcohol
abuse on college campuses.
Advocating abstinence as a vi-
able option was also stressed in
the report. A widespread call
was made for education of dorm
counselors, resident advisors,
Greek leaders, athletic coaches,
and professors as to the signs of
alcohol addiction. Finally, the
Governor’s Institute promoted
the idea of support and educa-
tion groups for alcohol-
related issues.

Dean of Students David
Howison said, “The report con-
ﬁrmed my observation that al-
cohol abuse is the most serious
problem facing the students at
Washington and Lee.” He in-
tends to use the report “as a
basis for a review of alcohol” on
campus this year. Howison’s
major concerns are the exces-
sive use and abuse of alcohol

major abuses

by students.

“Extreme drunkenness, drink-
ing to get drunk, and the harmful
consequences,” according to
Howison, are the danger zones
that students need to avoid. None-
theless, he admits that alcohol
plays a dominant role in the life
of W&L students.

Alarming to Howison was
the younger ages at which young
people start drinking. In fact,
more than 75 percent of students
have begun drinking before they
reach college. He also points out
that there is an indirectly propor-
tional relationship between
academic achievement and
alcohol use.

“As drinking goes up, grades
go down,” said Howison.

Howison believes that the ad-
ministration cannot solve the

problem of alcohol on campus _

alone. In fact, he recognizes that
true change will come about only
when students are sufﬁciently
motivated enough to alter their
attitudes regarding drinking.

However, he did stress the
importance of, ﬁrst, admitting
W&L has an alcohol problem,
and second, developing strate-
gies to address this issue. Among
his suggestions are reviewing
some of the recommendations
made in the Governor’s
Institute’s report, especially those
of increased education and stu-
dent involvement.

Students also had opinions
about the release of the survey
results. Many offered their ideas
on why alcohol plays such a big
role on the W&L campus.

“Almost the entire social life
revolves around drinking,” says
senior Kristen Berg.

“Students won’t go anywhere
unless alcohol is present because
they feel like there is nothing else
to do.”

Freshman Andrew‘ Fullam
said he thought that students drink
excessively because “the work is
so hard and it’s a good release.”

Other students pointed out that
alcohol abuse is not unique

to See SURVEY, page 6

Domestic

By EMILY BAKER
Phi News Editor

Upon reading the Princeton Review, a prospective stu-
dent might be struck by the dual nature of Washington and
Lee.

In the same book, W&L appears as an idyllic, intellectual
haven boasting great faculty and facilities, a “country club”
home to a student body as homophobic as it is alcoholic. The
“work hard, play hard” creed of so many students manifests

Two other rankings, #18 in the category of Professors
Bring Material to Life and #18 in Professors Make Them-
selves Accessible, support this high academic ranking.

W&L also ranked #5 in the Things Run Smoothly (best
administration) category. “Sitting in an administrative post,
this is heartening to hear,” said Dennis Manning, Dean of
Freshman and Residence Life.

One student disputed this ranking.

“I’m surprised at this,” said senior Ryan Boone. “Any-
body who has ever tried to register for a class knows this is
absolutely ridiculous.”

i  violence can j
 happen at I

 anytime, not  

  

  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

_ . _ _ As impressive as the academic ranking may be, students 0 o I
1, itself again, this time in the form of The Princeton Review Scored evon higher when it came to partying. Out of all 306  
S‘“de'“ A‘fCe55 G“ide "3 the B33’ 306 C0”98‘-’5- schools, W&L ranked #1 in Major Fraternity and Sorority
t Lifhet Printchetqﬁrjglseview survliyetcl betjween 103 a_nd_ :50 Scene, and #3 in Lots of Hard Liquor. One student elabo- ;
5 “ 9“ 5°" 9 °3mP“Sa 11 3'33 emlcS7a mlms F3“ rated on the drinkin scene inthe book, sa in “there are so ~
tion, food, housing, and the student body. The information many drunk poopiegcomihg in from pangs ting you oonid  o
‘ was compared to_that. of 305 other campuses across the can an AA convention in the hall,” A
' C°“mTY a“d_ complied "1 the R6‘/ieW’5 ’94"95 "«dlti0n- The People seem to be split on this issue. Manning said he ‘
book contains 63 lists of the top 20 colleges in different Sees nothing io disiinguish the amouniof drinking at w&L , By PATRICK WILLIAMSON
°a‘°g°li°S- from that of other schools. 4 Phi Staff Writer
W&L “'35 ranked 0“ 14 Of ‘he 63 1155- The U105‘ “College students drink,” he said. “No secret there. We ' ,
signiﬁcant, according to several administration members, is have a problem like every college or university has a ' . . ' .
4. the #5 rating of Best Overall Academic Experience for problem)’ The 00161 facts are staggering. . ,
U“deYgT3d“at€5- Senior Kathy Knight agreed with him. “I think it’s a ,EV°'Y ﬁfteen 5°°°“d5 3 w°ma“ ‘5_b3“°"°d if‘ 339
“I’m not surprised by this ranking,” said John Elrod, Piohioni on eveiy campus,” she said, «not just w&L’S_» United States by her husband, boyfriend, or live-in .
Dean of the College, “but it certainly feels nice to have it Howison, however, sees a difference in w&L’s d,ink_ partner. In theqUnited States almost four million Women
3""°““°°d E0 the World-”_ ing. ‘‘I’m not surprised by this ranking. Alcohol is the I‘ .3“ hem"? by ‘heir m,al° Partners °V°"Y Yea“ B°‘_‘V§°'! I O. I
1 “1 10V?» IL” Said DaVId H0WiS0n, Dean Of StUd€ﬂtS- number one problem at W&L...We need to ﬁnd a way to 7 2,900 ‘_‘“.d  beaten t°_d°“_‘h' EV°’_‘F“°'°‘f’i8,h.“_”, ‘
“WC,TC flVC spaces ahead Of Harvard!” lessen the negative impact of alcohol on  can-lPuS_” ,enIng ls    domesflc V./lolendce 15. ‘PC -lﬂadlng
Both credited W&L’s professors with scoring such a Ehod noted the irony of a sohooi ranked so high in q~/,,‘,¢3IlS'¢'_Oyf_1n_}‘lIl’yy_i(A) woineii, causing iriore injunes'fthan'
high ranking academics, yet so high in hard drinking. “The dichotomy is  ”!“88',"8S»‘ '°‘?'?‘“8°' "'3*Pés’l7iam_i car, °°°!d°'1¢S.°°"?b1?'°‘*'i"
“W5 3 ﬁne tribute ‘O 0U!’ faCU1t)’a” Said ElT0d- worrisome,” he said. “A lot of students adopt that ‘work “ Th“ m°“,th isD°m.°s‘i° Y‘°l°“°° Awafemss M";n¢.'.;'vf'
Howison agreed. “The quality of our academic experi- hard, piay hard’ niiiinde here, on; i am dismayed that we are L a monthdedicated to spreading the_word abouta serious‘
4 ence is the shining star ofour university, that is, the quality seen as playing ihai hard” He also expressed ~ problem that knows [no-‘social, economic, or r

of the teaching and the commitment to work closely with
students. The Princeton Review shows that students appre-

iv See REVIEW, page 6

« 1 regional bounds.

 
 

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUERIDGE

 

The World

U.S. sending more troops to Kuwait to
counter Iraqis

Despite Iraqi claims that it is withdrawing troops from the Kuwaiti
border, President Clinton said there are no signs of withdrawal and the U.S.
will continue to send forces to the Persian Gulf. The U.S. will soon have
36,000 troops in the area to counter the more than 63,000 estimated troops
that began moving toward Kuwait on October 2.

Haitians cheer departing former leader

Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, commander of the Haitian armed forces
resigned Monday. Cedras will seek asylum in an unknown country.
President Clinton announced that former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide
will return to Haiti Saturday. Cedras resigned to the cheers and singing of
the people he once ruled.

Terrorist attack in Israel kills 2

Jerusalem is recovering from the worst terrorist attack it has had in
years. Two Arabs from the Gaza strip ﬁred automatic weapons on the
people along a crowded street in downtown Jerusalem Sunday night,
killing two Israelis and wounding 13 others. A militant Islamic group
known as the Hamas has taken responsibility for the attack.

Nobel prize to go to both Rabin and Arafat

This year’s Nobel Peace Prize will go to Israel ’s Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin and P.L.O Chairman Yasir Arafat for the peace accord the two
nations signed in September 1993. This decision has caused division
within the Nobel committee and one member has threatened to resign.
Those opposed to giving the prize to Arafat say his organization espouses
terrorism.

Bodies of 48 cult members found in Switzer-
land

The bodies of 48 members of the Order of the Solar Temple have been
found in two Swiss villages. The deaths, which were first seen as a mass
suicide, then as mass murder, are now confusing investigators. The
location of the leader of the cult is missing; authorities do not know if he
is still alive or if his is one of the 25 bodies still unidentified. Police do not
know the cause of death for all the bodies, but believe that fires in both
villages were set off three hours apart. Some bodies had bullet wounds,
some were charred beyond recognition.

The Nation

 

Colorado court’s decision a victory for gay
rights

In a victory for homosexuals, the Colorado Supreme Court struck down
a 1992 measure forbidding local governments to enact laws protecting gay
people from discrimination in jobs and housing. Colorado lost about $40
million in tourism from a boycott of the state that civil liberties groups and
gay rights organizations called for. The Court overturned overturned
Amendment 2 because it singled out a group of people for denial of basic
rights, violating both the Colorado and Federal Constitutions.

Ito threatens to throw out evidence; says
prosecution is stalling ‘

Judge Lance Ito complained that prosecutors in the OJ. Simpson
murder case were stalling in testing blood samples from the Ford Bronco
and from a glove outside his home. Ito said Tuesday he agreed with the
Simpson defense team that numerous items were turned over to laborato-
ries for DNA analysis weeks after they were collected by police. Because
of this delay, Ito said, he might exclude the evidence. The second phase of
jury selection began Wednesday

Endeavour returns from mapping mission

The six astronauts aboard the space shuttle Endeavour landed Tuesday
in the Mojave Desert, a detour from its launching site of Cape Canaveral,
Florida. The crew spent its 11 day voyage mapping the Earth in three
dimensions with the most powerful civilian radar ever ﬂown. Clouds at
Cape Canaveral forced the shuttle to cross the country to California. It will
cost NASA $1 million to return the shuttle back to Florida on a jumbo jet.

.c_/517:9

North blames Clinton for weak military

The State

Senate Candidate Oliver North took criticism for remarks made at a
news conference in Richmond about Bill Clinton. North suggested that the
U.S. could not stop an attack by Saddam Hussein on Kuwait and. accused
Clinton of creating a “hollow military.” North is in another statistical dead
heat with Democratic incumbent Charles Robb, though polls show North
is slightly ahead, according to a poll by The Washington Post.

Fights break out at mock slave auction in
Williamsburg

A struggle broke out at Colonial Williamsburg on Monday over a
recreation of a slave auction. The Colonial Williamsburg foundation
promised a tasteful but moving dramatization of a slave auction. Protesters,
however, found fault with the scene’s taste and message. Six protesters
staged what began as a silent protest, and then pushed through the audience
singing “We Shall Overcome.” Costumed employees tried to push the,
demonstrators back behind the ropes. The scuffle lasted brieﬂy.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

The Rin -tum Phi October 14 1994

Annie
Lee joins
family in
Chapel

 

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

Lee, Robert E. Lee’s daughter, were
interred in the Lee family crypt in the
Lee Chapel Oct. 6, only 132 years after
her death of typhoid during the
Civil War.

Annie Lee was buried near
Warrenton, N.C. when she died in 1862,
because it would have been impossible
to return her body to Lexington under
the circumstances of the war.

After the marble obelisk marking
her grave was toppled two years ago,
Lee’s descendants decided it was time
to bring her body to join the rest of her
family. Gen. Lee, his wife, and each of
his other six children were already in-
terred in Lee Chapel.

James Edwards, J r., the North Caro-
lina funeral director who oversaw the
exhumation, said they found bone frag-
ments, pieces of pine, and discolored,
hard-packed earth that indicated where
the bottom of the casket had been.
They packaged these remains in a new
yellow pine casket and shipped it to a
Lexington funeral home. It was in-
terred in the crypt late the night of
Oct. 6.

The principle opposition to the ex-
humation came from the Military Or-
der of Stars and Bars. The group’s
lawyer, Sam Currin, insisted that he
had heard that no remains had been
found in the grave.

“The confederate heritage groups

Lee Chapel is now the final resting place of all of Robert E. Lee’s children. The body 0

Annie Lee was moved from North Carolina to the Chapel.

Spring term: an opportunity to leave

of North Carolina will continue to pay
their respects to her grave,” Currin
said.

File hoto

\

5/

The remains of Anne “Annie” Carter”

5

fi

74

I

Lexington and Venture into the World -

By JENNIFER LATHAM
Phi Staff Writer

Why not spend spring break in Paris, Nlauiiu,
Costa Rica, the Southwest or the Galapagos Islands?
While you’re at it, why not spend all of spring
term there?

Once again, interested students must make plans
to sign up for the univeisity’s spring term abroad
programs. The numbers of students have recently
dwindled in Washington and Lee’s study abroad
programs in Paris and in Bavaria. While most other
departments consistently recruit enough students for
their term abroad programs, the French and German
departments have had decreasing numbers of
participants in the past three years.

Professor Roger Crockett of the German
department said four students went to Bavaria last
spring. In 1993, 10 students made the spring trip and
14 went in 1992. _

French Professor John Lambeth said numbers of
students have also ﬂuctuated for the spring term in
Paris. Last spring, eight students went, while 14 went
in 1993. In 1992 the trip was canceled because not
enough students signed up for it.

Why are the numbers so unpredictable?

Lambeth said some students decide not to study
abroad spring term because six weeks seems
too short.

“What I’m hearing more often is ‘I want to spend
the year abroad,”’ said Lambeth.

Russian professor Greta McCaughrin said
students have sometimes shied away from the pro-
gram in Russia because of the political and socioeco-
nomic situation there. But that doesn’t stop students
who want to learn about the country’s culture
and language.

“Because Russia is so cheap, I don’t think we’ll
have a minimal [number of students],” McCaughrin
said.

The German and French groups might get fewer
students not because their programs are less

appealing, but simply due to uncontrollable
circumstances, said professor Kirk Follo.

“Some years you really get crops of students
who are interested in going, some years you
don’t,” Follo said.

Even when interest is high, some students
might opt not to study abroad because they would
miss W&L too much. Students who have
participated in spring term abroad were initially
worried about living without Goshen, parties, and
a relaxed schedule.

Senior Katherine Adams traveled through New
Mexico, Arizona, Utah and Colorado on the
geology program for three weeks last spring term.
She admits that she missed parts of the term
at W&L.

“The biggest thing I was bummed about miss-
ing was Noodle Fest, the Buffalo Creek Music
Festival,” Adams said. “But spring term, from
what I heard was nothing compared to our
freshman year. It wasn’t as fun. And we got back
in time for the senior party.”

Junior Jesse Taylor agreed that an experience
abroad surpasses spring term at W&L. Taylor
traveled to Madrid and Salamanca last
spring term.

“An awesome time in Lexington does not
compare with an awesome time there,” said
Taylor. “There was a group of W&L people who
you could hang out with, but at the same time, we
met a lot of Spaniards.”

Students who have gone abroad also offer
advice to those who are worried about heavy
course loads and limited free time in study
abroad programs.

“It was very relaxed,” said Taylor. “It was
almost like we weren’t in school.”

Senior Stacy Bogert said the program in
Germany was similar.

“I may have complained about the 23 churches
we saw in three weeks, but I think I learned a lot
there, even though I wasn’t trying to,” said Bogert.
“We didn’t want to hear about rococo and gothic
[architecture], but somehow it stuck in our minds.”

Senior LaKeisha Townes said she learned the most
from studying in Paris when she put down her books.
“I was able to get so much exposure to culture,

— language, and people...much more than you could ever

get in a classroom,” said Townes.

Although most students worried about missing W&L,
many also hesitated to go abroad because of the cost. 0

Financial Aid Director John DeCourcy said the trips
cost from $1500 to $3500 in addition to spring term
tuition. Students who apply for W&L loans and grants
usually have real ﬁnancial need, and most loan requests
are granted.

“If you need [financial aid], we’re here to help you,”
said DeCourcy, “but people have got to file applications
and jump through some hoops.” V

Bogert got a loan and grant for her trip from th
Financial Aid Office. She also paid for part of the trip
with money from a German scholarship and used her tax
returns as spending money.

“I definitely did not scrimp when I was there,” said
Bogert. “[Money from W&L for the trip} paid for
everything but beer and gifts.”

Townes was also satisfied with the help she got from
the Financial Aid Office.

“It didn’t bother me to take out a loan,” Townes said.
“They helped me out a lot.”

Getting a loan might be worth the effort if all spring
term abroad programs are as good as Bogert’s
and Taylor’s.

Bogert remembers “dancing on top of tables during
beer fests.”

Taylor said his trip to Spain gave him a chance to “see
how other cultures live and work” and to “take full
advantage of the siesta” after late nights out.

Directors of the spring term abroad programs will
talk with students about courses, excursions, and costs
of the trips in a meeting on Oct. 18 at 7 pm. in room 114
of the University Center.

Follo advises W&L students who participate in study
abroad programs through other universities. But he said
“our programs are very good and some of them are
reasonably priced.”

“For six weeks, you really can’t do any better,”
Follo said.

F.D. committee gearing up for Ball

Steering committee heads selected, begin working towards March

ByBE'I‘HANY BAUM/\l\
Phi Staff Writer

Although most Washington and Lee
students have not given much thought
to the 98th Annual Fancy Dress Ball,
the planning stage for the began
last May.

ItwasatthistimethatJoeFramptom,
Daniel Felton, and Kathy Boozer were
selected by the Executive Committee
as the chairman, vice chairman, and
auditor of the steering committee
responsible for the planning of the
March 3, 1995 ball.

Since being appointed, Framptom,
Felton, and Boozer have worked
through the logistical side of the
planning, formulating a budget,
resrving areas for decoration construc-
tion, and reworking the steering
committee’s structure.

During the first week of October
interviews for positions on the
committee were conducted by
Framptom and his colleagues.

Forty students, as opposed to last
year’s 59, were selected to serve on one
of six subcommittees; publicity, play-
bill, memorabilia, invitations, construc-
tion, and decorations. Over half of these
students will devote their time to the
decoration subcommittee.

There is a new position of entertain-
ment coordinator outside of the
subcommittees to be filled by one of
the 40 students. This person will con-
centrate on dealing directly with the
swing band that will be playing in the
Warner Center’s big gym, and with the
one or two rock bands that will be
entertaining in the small gym.

Also, the position of the big gym
coordinator has been replaced with a
coordinator for all of the decorations.
Framptom hopes that these two

positions, in conjunction with the scale
down, will the efficiency and
coherence of the committee.

The committee members will meet
for the first time on October 13th.
Before the end of the month, they will
have decided on a theme and booked
the entertainment. Memorabilia and
raw materials for the decoration
construction will be ordered before the
end of the fall term.

January will see the committee
members refining their plans and
designs as well as accumulating their
materials. The construction of
decorations will begin in the Pavilion
one week before the Washington holi-
day and will continue forthe two weeks
that follow it.

The FD Steering Committee will
not only have to abide by this schedule,
but will also have to work within the
confines of a $75,000 to $77,000 bud-
get. Boozer has laid out a conservative

financial plan forthis year’s FD in case
inclement weather reduces ticket and
memorabilia sales, as it did last year.

' A debt of several thousand dollars
was incurred last year because of this
reduction. However, that debt has not
been carried to this year’s budget. No
student activity funds will be used to
subsidize the costs of FD. It will rely
strictly on the sales of the $45 per
couple tickets and memorabilia
packages.

However, the cost of printing the
playbill is covered by the sales of its
advertisements. The members of the
Fancy Dress Steering Committee will
log countless hours of hard work over
the next four months while they are
preparing for the social event of the
year

However, come March 3, 1995,
there is little doubt that their efforts
will be greatly appreciated by the mem-
bers of the W&L community.

D

 

 

it

14.-

IA

 

. _ . 4

 

‘I/l/cb“L tfe

A plethora of exciting places to take parents

Publicit photo

The wax ﬁgures of Virginia Presidents sit down for some food and conversation at t e
Natural Bridge wax museum. The museum features over 150 life replicas incorporating

sound, light and animation.

Parents’ Weekend means
e“real meal” opportunities

celebrate Parents’ Week-

end.
By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

Mother Nature welcomes this weekend’s
visitors to Lexington with beautiful changing
leaves and weather that is cooling for fall but
still warm in the sun. Lexington restaurants are
preparing for hungry travelers, too. Here is a
quick guide to eating this Parents’ Weekend.

The highlight of many students’ weekends
will be a “real meal” at one of the nicer restau-
rants around. But the hungry should remember
to call ﬁrst as seats fill quickly.

The Inn at Union Run features a constantly
changing menu made fresh to every order,
including game and 0 homemade pasta dishes
and some very tempting desserts.

The inn is nestled on the side of a mountain,
and the scenery is wonderful now. Even those
not familiar with the area should be able to ﬁnd
the inn by taking Route 11/Route 251 South;
just over 2 1/2 miles past the Thrifty Inn is
Union Run Road (Route 674) where they should
take a left and travel about a half mile. Reser-
vations are required. (463-9715)

The Willson-Walker House Restaurant also
offers ﬁne dining to the city of Lexington and
features a special menu for Parents’ Weekend.

It is located downtown, within easy walk-
ing distance of campus, on Main Street between

I00.

In addition to their full
menu, they offer prime rib
on Saturday night.

The Southern Inn is on
Main Street
Nelson Street and Wash-
ington Street. Reservations
are accepted. (463-3612)

For more casual meals,
there are many ﬁne Lex-
ington eateries to try, most
within walking distance of
campus, and each ‘offers
something unique.

“ Hunan Garden (behind

McDonald’s) offers au-
, thentic Chinese dishesfas
well as the exotic “ﬂaming
volcano” which wins its
reputation with W&L stu-
- dents; the Golden Dragon
(by K-Mart) has Chinese

Spanky’s Restaurant
and Delicatessen on
Jefferson Street has an ex-
tensive menu of sand-
wiches, or patrons can de-
sign their own favorite
combination.

Huge “Zonker” bagels are the house spe-

between

By JESSICA ANTONICH
Phi Staff Writer

Wondering what to do with your
parents this weekend? Why not get to
know Lexington and the surrounding
area? You’ve lived here long enough!
Now is the time to learn some of its
history. Here are a few exciting sug-
gestions:

Closest to W&L, on the VMI cam-
pus, is the George C. Marshall museum
honoring the World War II general and
Nobel Peace Prize recipient. Accord-
ing to a museum representative, busi-
ness is brisk since this is the 50th anni-
versary of World War II. The museum
also contains a library and an archive
that holds the papers of Marshall and
some of his contemporaries. The mu-
seum is open 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Monday
through Saturday and 2 p.m. - 5 p.m. on
Sunday. Admission is $3.00 for adults
and $1.00 for children from 7 - 18.

The Lexington Visitors’ Center of-
fers carriage tours daily from 9:30 a.m.
to 4:30 p.m.. Located at 106 East
Washington Street, the tour goes past
the Stonewall Jacson House, the re-
stored downtown area, the 19th cen-

tury residential section, and ﬁnally,
past the Stonewall Jackson cemetary.

If you didn’t getenough of the Stone-
wall Jackson House from the carriage
tour, you can delve inside until 5 pm
daily. This was Jackson’s house for ten
years before the Civil War while he
was a professor at VMI.

Forthe nature lovers the Blue Ridge
Parkway and Goshen Pass are two
places you must visit this weekend.
The Blue Ridge Parkway connects
Shenandoah National Park in Virginia
with the Great Smoky Mountain Na-
tional Park in North Carolina and Ten-
nessee. The closest entrance to the
Parkway from Lexington is off of
Route 60 East about 15 minutes from
town. Goshen Pass, a W&L spring-
time favorite, is a mountain gorge ap-
proximately 30 minutes down Route
39 off of Route 11 North. Before the
development of the railroad in 1880,
Goshen Pass was a crossing for stage-
coaches.

Another interesting escape from
Lexington is Staunton, home of the
Statler Brothers and Woodrow
Wilson’s birthplace. Wilson’s birth-
place, a National Historical Monument
and artifact museum, is open from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. Staunton is 30
miles north of Lexington on I-81.

PAGE 3

Finally, no historical journey can be
complete without a trip to Natural
Bridge, one of the Seven Natural Won-
ders of the World. Located off of
Route 11 South, Natural Bridge, the
town, consists of, not only a natural
wonder, but a wax museum, a zoo, and
caverns as well. Attractions of the wax
museum include a six minute ﬁlm pre-
sentation of the Last Supper and a
factory tour showing where the new
wax figures are made. The zoo fea-
tures 300 - 400 different species of
animals.

According to a representative, “You
can get a lot closer to the animals here
than at the bigger zoos. You can feed
pretty much any animal in the zoo
except for the tigers and large cats.”
Guided tours are offered through Natu-
ral Bridge Caverns. The guides sug-
gest that you wear comfortable shoes.
Combination ticket prices are avail-
able for all attractions at $13.00 for an
adult. All three are open seven days a
week. Hours are: Natural Bridge 8
a.m. - 7 p.m., Wax Museum 10 a.m. - 6
p.m., and Caverns 10 a.m. - 5 p.m.

If you have any questions, the Lex-
ington Visitors’ Center is sure to help
with more precise information. Lo-
cated on East Washington Street, the
center is open until 5 p.m. daily.

.L2eve games at /W&J;

By COURTNEY MILLER
Phi Staff Writer

Finding that “special someone” to date
at W&L is nearly impossible. The typical
American ritual of dating has disappeared and
been replaced by “hooking up” at a party with
someone of the opposite sex. Luckily for those
die hard romantics out there, The Dating Game
is striving to preserve some warped aspect of
dating.

The season premier of Chris Albert’s
baby was well worth watching. It aired
Monday Oct. 10 at 6:30 p.m. on W&L’s own
cable channel 2. One lucky bachelorette,
Megan McCloskey had her choice of three
bachelors. It was obvious why the three men
were single, but McCloskey was quite a mys-
tery.

The Dating Game is production of

W&L’s journalism and communications de-
partment. The graphics are excellent, although
it would work better to display the names of the
contestants earlier in the game. The camera
work keeps with the spirit of the show, cutting
to cheesy pans of the audience laughing at such
lines as, “I like fast cars and fast women.”

McCloskey’s questions for her bach-
elors reveal quite a bit about the personalities of
each of the guys, but often had some interesting
innuendoes.

Overall Chris Albert does an excel-
lent job of capturing a unique look at the dating
life of W&Lstudents. The Dating Game is well j
worth the half an hour study break. Last year’s 1
best shows can be seen Oct. 17-19 at 6:30 p.m., '.
and a this year’s next new show will be shown ‘
Oct. 24. ‘

For more information, and possible a ‘.
personal appearance on The Dating Game, call 2
469-8870 and ask for Steph, or sign up in front I
of the Co-op.

by often going late-night, offering a limited
menu to those with the munchies later than

‘X
’$

2
c
.3
,_.

File photo A
A leprechaun greets Spanky’s patrons coming
in for St. Patrick's Day sandwiches.

Washington and Henry Streets. Here too, res-
ervations are recommended. (463-3020)

The Maple Hall dining room is also a nice
choice for a family dinner.

They will features a set menu for the week-
end with students and parents in mind.

Maple Hall is located at the intersection of
Route 11 North (toward Wal-Mart) and I-81.
Reservations are recommended. (463-4666)

ll Palazzo offers ﬁne Italian dishes in a
pleasant atmosphere for a family gathering.
Their food ranges from great pizzas to full
dinners.

They are located next to Willson-Walker on
Main Street, again within an easy walk from
campus or anywhere downtown. (464-5800)

The Southern Inn is another great choice to

Predictable Quiz Show lacks interesting story line movement

cialty which make any sandwich complete.

Harb’s Bistro on Washington Street may be
Lexington’s most cosmopolitan restaurant; they
feature a great happy hour and a fun outdoor
patio area when the weather is warm.

Their “House Mountain” nachos are a
worthy tribute to the local landmark, possibly
the best around.

The Palms, that Lexington landmark at
Nelson and Jefferson Streets, offers more than
just the social life of the over-21 crowd.

Theirmenu containsvarious American-style
foods, and their popcorn is a definite treat.

The Raven and Crown, across from campus
on Lee Avenue, has a great pub atmosphere and
serves good American pub fare.

They set themselves apart from the crowd

most local restaurants.

Lexington also has some highly unique eat-
ing establishments which bold students may
wish to visit with their parents, or perhaps save
for another visit. .

Topping this list is, of course, the restaurant
at Lee-Hi truck stop — open 24 hours, and
serving breakfast all day and night.

The Blue Heron Cafe on Washington Street
offers vegetarian cuisine; by contrast, Pete’s
Bar-B-Que Station serves up pork, beef and
chicken down by Stop-In.

And no adventurous parent should miss the
Evans Dining Hall if they want to fell the full
force of their student’s W&L experience.

1994 graduate Heather Aussiker gets ready for the date she picked on

last year’s "Dating Game."

By KIRK SUSONG
Phi Movie Reviewer

 

Quiz Show — 1’§n’.‘z1/2

It might seem to some social commentators that America’s
history is simply a series of cultural deﬂowerin gs, a long set
of brutal awakenings and disillusionings.

And in this list, which accommodates everything from
the Black Sox Scandal to Watergate, there is very promi-
nently featured the corrupt game shows of the ﬁfties, espe-
cially NBC’s Twenty-One.

It is the story of that program which is the subject for
Robert Redford’s latest directorial effort, Quiz Show.

Twenty-One is a very successful game show in which
contestants answer trivia questions, receiving points for
their efforts.

The first to twenty-one points wins the game and the
money, and gets to return the next week.

For several weeks the show is dominated by a swarthy,
working—class nerd from Queens, Herbert Stempel (John
Turturro).

He is able to recall facts with incredible precision, and
the whole nation thrills to see this underdog consistently
defeat his cleaner, neater, more composed opponents.

But after a while, the nation gets tired of this little man
who, despite the glamour and success, is still essentially a
loser.

So the big men at NBC decide its time to make a change:
they seize upon an upcoming contestant, Charles Van Doren

(Ralph Fiennes).

Van Doren is a young, handsome college professor
whose relatives are all prominent academics.

He is ﬁrst given questions he already knows the answers
to, then he is given the questions themselves beforehand,
and soon enough he is winning gobs of money.

At the same time, he is also entrancing the nation’s quiz
show viewers.

He is the beautiful WASP hero the nation had always
wanted.

As a result, the ratings soar, and Van Doren lands
himself on the cover of Time.

But, as you might have guessed, Stempel was none too
pleased to have been given the boot.

So when the executives fail to find other television work
for him, he gets mad and starts a grand jury investigation.

The grand jury reveals nothing (due to NBC’s tamper-

ing?), but the story gets noticed by a young Congressional
staffer, Richard Goodwin (Rob Morrow).

He prods and pushes and nose around enough until
ﬁnally he ﬁnds conclusive evidence that the show has been
rigged.

In fact, not only was Van Doren given the answers, so
was Stempel and every other champion of the past.

The whole thing had been sour from the very beginning.

The resulting Congressional hearings expose the falsity
of television and the sham that is the entertainment industry.
America cries herself to sleep and wakes up bitter and
disillusioned.

Or so Redford would have us believe.

He clearly means for the whole movie to reflect the
hollowness of the WASP ideal and the American Dream.

I am not too convinced he does so successfully, but it
does make for interesting thinking, especially coming from

watch it.

MTV.)

Rating Scale

‘i‘n"r*i‘rsf§r -— Go buy this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an instant classic. “You’ll laugh;
you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something about yourself.”

i‘n"nﬁr —- Go see this film now, while it’s still on the big screen. It’s worth a few Oscar nominations
and the seven bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better than Cats!”
ﬂri‘: —— Okay, so there have been better films. Nevertheless, it is a good example of its genre, and
you should probably see it on videotape. Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

1} — It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off tomorrow’s reading. Although your time
would probably be better served on your education, its free and you’re bored, so go ahead and

No stars — Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed harder, trust me, this
one sucks. Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste it on this. (There’s

always

1
i
v
I
i
I
l

File photo

W&L, where the WASP ideal is still embraced with much
romantic passion.

Setting aside its didactics, the movie is not too bad. The
acting is on the whole quite good, especially from Ralph
Fiennes.

If you remember his brilliant work in Schindler ’s List,
you will not be disappointed here. .

Turturro portrays such a sad and pathetic ﬁgure that I
have a hard time deciding whether my distaste for his
character is a sign of the performance’s strength or its
weakness.

Rob Morrow is generally competent, with the exception
of his disastrous attempt at a Boston accent.

His voice does not remain constant from one scene to the
next, and this blatant failure makes his character much,
much weaker.

The one truly Oscar-worthy performance comes from
Paul Scoﬁeld, playing the elder Van Doren, Mark.

The role is probably too small even to be called “sup-
porting."

However, he does a fantastic job as the saddened father,
who sees his son’s destruction played out before of millions.

Robert Redford does a passable job as the director. What
really hinders him from telling a good story, though, is the
inherent lack of movement in the story line.

At every step ofthe line, we already know what is going
to happen, and why.

There are no intriguing plot-twists. The dramatic irony of
the situation is never handled as successfully as it must be
for this movie to work at its best.

Essentially the movie is historical ﬁction, adding a little
tense dialogue and a few neat cinematographic stunts, but at
root still just a documentary.

Without the acting of Ralph Fiennes or the crisp, sleek
ﬁfties’ sets, this movie is much poorer.

Even now, it is probably only worth a video rental.

 

 

 

W&LIF E

    
  
 

    
   
 
  

 
   
    

  
 
 
   
  
 
 

   
   
 
  
   
  
  
  

 

   
   

  
   

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1994

 

 

 
     

         

          
     
  

     

   

 

  

   
  

 

 

 

  
   

 

   
   

 

  

 
 

         
     
   
       
     
       

X
(5: N © :9 86 37
L EJEL L MAW
‘H’   GR D£N IN (S
tr
ABRLEF mrreooomon To THIS Cnﬁrooo Foil Ioeoeu-rrgg 009*‘; REHEML 00005.: FOR 10036 “O Wm, am “we mamw My
ﬁr’ . I 1 ‘
WHAT IS “ | E W " ? WHAT ARE THE W”-L 'L|FEIrJ HELL" 2
L F HE LL: ° MAJo2 ‘memes oF OFFEND ME 7.’  -
“Lu=e in «aw IS A $01‘ To Mam-Loo THIS CAP.ToorJ ? 5; ‘
::.::::::t::°;::,°   3 ,~  
‘ '_ S&LF- LOATRIIOC9. Lovg 5 Ex p
I QT’ §, I I r‘
:§5Q*:“E‘”°:'§‘g’G-ﬂ Memgeginecs Woe" DEAN’ i
OF out mpwonié AW RA33”'9- §
 in ~
Iv~\T2oDooIOCa... |-us esrgggggg ¢,,gu=g,;,)p_._ ‘mos: ‘Two LITTLE F0» so-K... 8Iv~lI=*1's ILL£c.m-«ATE Son... ‘:5
sugar; 3 BLEACHERS
HERE. one man i 3
AW “FE PLEASE QUIT ,.
- STAEMC9 AT
Paeuens-ram. H‘? EAR. YOU NEVER
3233?, ”°"“"' LhSA’NE§ ! I sAu>
’ ' SAND $555!! ‘
m-Lo: s'rAo. OF mus cmoon). uJHO: 2AeaLT on-THE-60. wuo; 8201’!-(E29, oz Lovees, WHO: No one esawa weer, "
‘ DISTMGUISKNG Fexroaes: olsrnneutsuuut, F£A'roRE$: on 801-H. DISTNGOISHNG Fame“:
“,0 5,°1E§Que Enslsmm 305.00,“, g,,,,,., ,, ,¢AG_ °|STI-IGUISHMG F5A1-oRE€: TAKE A Goesi
eves, co.m-A-AT -run1-cmuca. EMo1'iouAL STATE: :,E,zEu:.'= H“ on “Me EMoTu»)A¢, STATE:
3E::‘vg.|,°;t:I:9.::::o? :L)0EI-«AL. 05:23:73: "S|‘:E:fv\D6'o. EMoTIos)AL STATE: mscnnABLE. SQuEu'.\-Leo, ‘
WILL ‘THE CHARACTERS n4 "LLFE IN HELL" EVER. ACHIEVE HAP Pw E SS ?
-\_- ‘.10’: -»s'*~ ‘ ‘ ‘ h
‘ - \\. 
\ {%~ C ‘~
W8 . \ivb‘(\“(*\X[ \2f
,  ‘K
‘5'is:~it_;  ‘K ": new. 1 
.__j‘4 ‘
MIXED MEDIA
by Jack Ohman DAVE
by David Miller 1
°’"“T7 evl‘2'2..'?£é?o§‘$'T;‘3£‘3§.‘eo wI'vgg;~g,T _ . "
lNTRODu(IN6.,. Y°”""'””E“ °”'”’-'-'- 9 .' “ 
M CI
. FRIENDS 6? v
' —;‘ ; _  AND .
0 35 ROYAL ® L
 0» 0* - FAMILY
—‘\\. __ I FOR -mos: MAKN6 300 .h
:_".":?,’T:“: _  %+\ I 4 + _ (ALL; 1» ‘rue 5AM: Nausea... L
 - —-,,——— ‘° ‘°
mil O1994,tnc. Va; ’
Thou? wuo wens PI-N$I<ALLv Aansto YE0%,$¥_7,A 
A BY PEOPI.E wm-u FISH uooxs,.,Nexr  '
RIVERA ‘ Gemmoozzr 0 4 -J
RUNS ‘f ‘J
mnouou H ‘ in
I'I'... ',- ‘fﬁ — \ _ _
4;; ms
__ _ xi
" - “‘ ' \ — T : v T t ’ og:'4,vl’Ju»:l;‘MMl.ovd.,.AsI.'ﬁ::w:'mivI0. -”/L:
)
k
I"""""""""""""""' “'1 name £L__0—i——ARFRALE {L
 ' beg you to consider
Chicken | me. I am willing to ’91 Chrysler LeBarron
O‘ I I wO,i<k hard anﬂ wit ll . Convertible - V6 - power 5
Serving Breakfast, Lun  tier. All you can eat ma 9 0'1 9X09 9,“ - d _ cruise - auto-
buffet Wed., Fri., Sa hts All Day Sunday l by M°”°- R°”‘“~ Kim 3* Barbara 3 E9 3:99‘ e59"t0"i”(fé',  _°;:§&P,B _ 48000 m
Beer°nPremisis-Catering&BanquetFa°i'ities- ' Call for . mi“ LSEEEQ’ §8.2‘§aaer -white/grey interior.
Sororities & Fraternities Welcome. Menu everyday. ‘ A .i  S l ' h k’ 3
PW ﬁtment —- '“e- T 0" V°”- $11 500 463-2151 ext 112 —
Rt. 11 South; at Fancy Hill 11 39 m J ff ’
0 433.9533 u e arson I Thank you. thank SK FOR ALI
1-81 em 18013 Lexi_r_1_gton. Virginia 24450 you. j«~—— A
10% Offwhen you mention this ad "" “ ""‘ "' “' "" "' -* -'- -- - J 0 W
>
’ C
it ”
A“*‘”A"”0'“"‘E“"E“ '@a“mi‘Li" eeexrar K9"!/S °'"°*
° ' On Rt. so (Nelson St), 25 mlles west of Lexington
§Rgn18Fa?d5gIgm;;;9.95 @RTWA “The tradition continues” I
H a an an X 1 1 Ion ,_ "  "  Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea.,
' delicious BBQ sandwiches $1.39
7-Up, A&W root beer, RC, cream soda- ,
Saturday, January 28, 1995 3 cans / $130
12*“ "00" "Pt" 5*“ Pm Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .039/gal.
Natural Bridge Hotel Unleaded Plus - $1 .109/gal.
Route 11, Natural Bridge, Virginia *0
Nat Light suits - $9.59 ’
0 _ S h A Try the New Red Dog Beer - $4.09
Bridal and F[:o;|:nea1Sgzir::]ri::sh1on ow 40Ib.’-ce_$4_99
G1've—a—wags As Always, We Provide The Best ’
AND MUCH. MORE Service For The W&L Community
Free Admmslon Open7Days 4&-5452 MlIes&SandyNye,Propdetors

_  ‘,0

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1.994 T PAGE 5

  Awouuuup
  rm; mscowaa CARD
« $2-3 Tgennﬁn

 
  

.c-.--.-..-..----.....-x-..-..-- -~...._- 4......

'.—-.-.v- F_W I-I-.vQv-vvvvvovvvu vvwvv u u v n v pv vv Dvvdvv-vvvw.v¢V.v.\v:v,-9'29:-a~IVt":vu-rnr-1-'13-'4'-1-.-.6’:-4-'-J1 -.

«   Apply for the Discover® Card
, by November 10.
Spend $75. Get $25 back’?

NO Annual Fee.   

E ._ W’ __ f; V ’
, Look for applications and certificates on campus.     IT)
GU IT.

   

MEMBER  JNETWORK @1994 Greenwood Trust Company, Memher FDIC.
4-. >,,,,

*This offer valid for Discover Card applications received by 11/10/94, that are approved and enrolled between 9/21 and ll/21/94. Offer valid for purchases made by 3/31/'95 Cam mw yI~’t,‘wx U/.lJ.‘,"r * xelud»-d 'i'f'—.-. ., v 4, » ,

 

 

    

PAGE 6

Alcohol use and abuse preval

I-9 SURVEY, from page 1

to W&L.

Juniorlason Hurst added, ‘‘I ’ve been
to other campuses and seen the
same thing.”

Anna Bentley, a junior, agreed.

“W&L is not alone,” she said. “It is
a large part of the student culture and it
can be used excessively.”

Most members of the Washington
and Lee community would agree that
excessive alcohol abuse is evident.

While virtually all students under-
stand the related negative conse-
quences, students don’t seem to be
dramatically changing their behaviors.
What students know and can tell you
about substance abuse and what they
practice are two very different things.
Howison believes that real progress
will be made only when students bridge
that gap. Until then, educators and coun-
selors may as well be talking to a
brick wall.

A Workshop on Early Identiﬁca-
tion and Prevention of the Negative
Consequences of Alcohol and Sub-
stance Use is scheduled for Monday,
October 17. This will be one of the
administration ’s first attempts since the
release of the survey results to try and
break down that brick wall, and actu-
ally reach some students.

ent at W&L

A Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Fifty-three percent of Washington and Lee students say they had 10 or more drinking episodes during the 1992-
1993 school year in which they consumed ﬁve to 10 drinks. Another 28 percent say they have been a passenger
in a car with a drunk driver. The survey also showed that women drink less than men.

he REVIEW, from page 1

disappointment that W&L is one of
“the leaders in intolerance,” refer-
ring to the #4 ranking in the cat-
egory of Gay Students Ostracized,
Discriminated Against.

“On such a traditional campus,”
said Howison, “there is a reluctance
to accept other lifestyles.”

While this may be a prevalent
attitude, no one sited actual events
of ostracism or discrimination.

“Since I have not been made
aware of any instances of gay stu-
dents having been ostracized, this
ranking surprises me,” said Man-
ning.

While anonymous students spoke
freely to the Princeton Review about
homosexuality, none were willing
to comment on the record about

W&L ranks 4th in
gay discrimination

attitudes here.

The ranking of #1 on the Greek
scene came as a surprise to few.

“Fraternities and sororities deﬁ-
nitely dominate the social scene,”
said senior Chris Albert, “but it’s
still possible to enjoy life here as an
independent.”

Students admitted there few op-
tions for independents, “but they
knew that when they came here,”
said Boone.

The high party marks and the
high academic marks seem to bal-
ance. The 11th Happiest Student
Body attends class on the 14th Most
Beautiful Campus, enjoying the
19th Best Quality of Life.

“We’re ranked in so many cat-
egories,” said Howison.

“That’s a real testimony to the
distinct character of Washington
and Lee.”

By PHIL CARROTI‘
Phi Managing Editor

In eight short months, there should
be a new occupant in Washington Hall
23, the president’s office.

The Presidential Search Commit-
tee, composed of various faculty mem-
bers, presidents of the law and under-
graduate alumni associations, the past
I president of the student body, and the
past president of the law school, has
been meeting during the spring and
summer of this year to narrow the pool
of 135 applications down to 40.

They will further narrow the 40
down to ten for presentation to the
board of trustees, who are meeting at
the end of this month.

The Presidential Selection commit-
tee, composed of various members of
the Board of Trustees, will interview

and present a candidate for the board to

Presidential
search down to 40

vote on at their February meeting. The
new president should have accepted by
June.

Chairman of the committee, Profes-
sor William Watt, said “in the first
swipe through we found 40 good pos-
sibilities, so the ten should be excep-
tional.”

Watt was also the chairman for the
committee that chose President John
Wilson in 1982.

Asked whether the 40 people cho-
sen already included a woman, Watt
simply responded by saying the group
was “quite diverse.” He added that the
ages in the group of 40 applicants var-
ied between 40 and 60.

He said there were no restrictions
put on how the applicants were se-
lected.

So far Watt said it was a “very
successful exercise,” so we should have
an exceptional president ready to start
building by the end of next year.

463-2742

VARNER _ _ 
Specializing in Unfinished
Furniture and Shades

19 S. Randolph St.
Lexington, VA 24450

  

cnoruwq

 

    

BUTLER

     

Date :
Ixxta rion :

rz~zs'r1'rU'rE"i%*oii iiii isrumr ABROAD

U N I V E R
UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN

GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
  IRELAND
NEW ZEALAN D

FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER ' FULL YEAR
iNS'i”EP ' SUMMER PROGRAM * INTERNSHIPS

SITY

D S $31 in

Carol Caratody
'l'ues., October 25
11:30 - 1:30
Student Center

 
  
 

-.:‘x -.‘..-1tr.n~.;'s
*>.sz*t' Am."-‘tr-.':..

 

  

& cm

i;.0L.ll-Z.1-:.'>IZlAl\l
-TAci4-.Ji;_\\/;L_r2.Y- qrFT:>

FTE_M:: N coop cor~DrTiaN \\/E0J..r\g'0lvE_
I I \\/.\\/A.::«LkNq'TON .‘>TlZl;l;.T

N:xT To u~N:Jz.:-r'r~r :>parz1\v:.m2)

05 464-9500

 

Let Harbs’ Cater
Your Party

  

   
  

20

._,

Spinach Lasagna

01'
Chicken Enchilada

Garden Salad
French Bread
Brownies or Cookies

Avoid Restaurant Crowds

Have Fun at Home
Call Immediately -

464- 1900

  
  
    
  
  
  

deserveand need

REPAlRS—AND

_N°“' 90 .
credit card in the world EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEHJREI

u can have the most recognized

Mastercardo the credit card‘ you
for— |D——BOOKS-—DEPARl‘MENT

STORES-—TUlTlON-ENTERTAINM ENT-
EMERGEPCY @SH—TlCKE'l'S-RESTAURANTS-
HU,l‘ELS-MOTELS—G‘\S—CAR RENTALS-

TO BUIID YOUR CREDIT RATING!

No turn downs!
, ’ No credit checks!
“,,5i93:‘Ego\S5C“’f‘ No security deposit!
3)» ,
°°o’§‘°'m SEND THE coupon TODAY

YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING!

 
 

Anya. -..-~¢a, vuonla ..

Lex laws

By KATHRYN MAYURNIK
Phi Staff Writer

Vivisection. Experimentation.
Abandonment. All of these things
can be regarded by some people as
cruelty to animals, an action that no
honorable, dog-loving, W&L stu-
dent would be a part of.

Just spending a few minutes on
the Hill, one can witness the stu-
dents and their dogs bonding play-
ing a game of Frisbee, running to-
gether in the grass, or playing the
popular “fetch the English paper.”
But then there is also the common
scene of a dog and the tree that he is
tied to. According to Virginia state
law, this is considered cruelty to
animals. Last week, Cole Van Nice
and Less Borden, W&L students,
learned about this law the hard way.

While Van Nice and Borden were
at class, they tied their dogs, lager
and Boomer, to the trees outside
their fraternity house. Officer R.D.
Clark of the Lexington Police De-
partment arrived at the scene and
took the dogs into custody, despite
the protests of the fraternity broth-
ers who, Van Nice says, were watch-
ing and caring for the dogs.

According to the law, any dog
that is tied up without adequate food,
water, and shelter can be taken into
custody by the police. If the owner
is convicted in a court of law, the
ﬁne can run up to $75. Otherwise,
the owner just has to pay for the
boarding of the dog, which is $8

a day.

    

, A a
Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring—Ium

[mi

allow dogs
left tied tobe taken

When Van Nice and Borden ar-
rived back home that day, they were
shocked that man’s best friend was
not there to greet them. When they
went to pick up their pooches and
discovered that the charge was fail-
ure to perform ownership duties,
they were particularly outraged.

“lager is a four-month old Ger-
man Shepherd puppy,” Van Nice
explained. “He needs to be around
people who will care for him. 1 left
him with my fraternity brothers
because I knew he would be better
taken care of there instead of on
the Hill.”

Van Nice claims that there was
a bowl of water out, although it had
been kicked over, lager had al-
ready been fed, and it was a beauti-
ful sunny day. There were plenty of
people looking after the dog, and
he sees nothing cruel about that.

According to Officer Clark, the
law is good because “it is intended
for the protection and welfare of
the animal.”

Although the situation between
Van Nice and Borden has been
settled with the police, Van Nice
feels that the situation is ironic.

“Ifl had tied him up on the Hill
unattended,withoutfood.waterand
shelter, I wouldn’t have gotten into
trouble with the police,” Van Nice
commented. ‘‘I was performing
good ownership duties by leaving
him at the house.Theironicthingis
that now I might have to leave him
out on the Hill. This law seems to

be hurting the dogs, rather than I

helping them.”

    

 

23 N. Main St.

Lexington, VA 24450
////

 

IWTE: Iihslerﬁrd is I ltgbltltd tradermrli If Malerthnl Intcmlllornl. Inc.

MAIL THIS N0 RISK COUPON TODAY

I

I ‘I
:  lwant MASTERCARD0lmmedlalely. :
I 100% GUARANTEED! '
I I
I I
: NAME :
, ADDRESS .
3 CITY STATE.__ZlP '
:  Yes No 55} :
: SIGNATURE :
| I
| I
L J

 
 

15% OFF

any regular priced shoes
with coupon
October 14 & 15, 1994

glut geam ./j;bo'zt:.

115 W. Nelson St.

appagaililo»

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

./.--

UNI—CARD.BOX 220645.,-HOLLYWOOD.FL 33022 '

i
L
i
l

(703) 463—5988 

u..., \,x.._,.,_,.. 4-4’ .... ....

STOP ALCOHOL POISONING

Symptoms of alcohol poisoning

1. Person is unconscious or semi-
conscious and cannot be woken.

2. Cold, clammy, pale or bluish skin.

3. Check to see if breathing is slow, less
than eight times per minute, or
irregular, with ten seconds or more
between breaths.

4. Vomiting while "sleeping" or passed ,
out, and not waking up aftervomiting.

It a person has any of these symptoms, he
or she is suffering from acme alcohol
intoxication.

1. Get help Call someone, a staff
member, an ambulance, public safety,
someone who can help

2 Do not leave the the person alone,
turn him or her on their side to keep
them from choking in case of vomiting.

3 Always be "better safe than sorry" if
you are not sure what to do How can
your friend be angry about you caring
for him or her?

 

The Ring-tum Phi. October 14, 1994

PAGE 7

Domestic violence can even happen in college

it VIOLENCE, from page 1

her the abuser or batterer. While this
intimidationtypically takes onthe form
of physical violence, in most cases it is
not the lone form
of intimidation.
Often the jeal-
ous batterer plays
mind games with

j_((_____

He may prevent

their closet. But if the laundry remains
in the closet, it will never be cleaned.
In otherwords, the only way to cure the
problem of domestic violence is to
bring it out in the open. Unfortunately,
this often proves
to be more pain-
fulthanthe endur-
ance of the abu-
sive relationship.

the victim, using Thisisbecausethe
  her from going out t:';::';:::";::.:::;:
cion, es roymg . .

property,display- wlth friends and l:o]ttolIegulpef:(r):ucl;
mg weapons, or ' o
lookingmhmna isolate her from the time that confeS_

world.

threatening man-
ner. He may pre-
vent her from go-
ing out with
friends and isolate her from the world.
He may prevent her from getting a job
or use the children as a bargaining chip
to get what he wants out of her by
threatening to take them away. Emo-
tional abuse and blame are also signifi-
cant components of the broad category
of domestic violence.

The abuser gradually chips away at
the victim’s self-esteem over time by
putting her down and making her feel
bad about herself. He always tries to
minimize and deny the abuse. Finally,
sexual abuse is nearly always unfortu-
nately a player in the realm of
domestic violence.

The vast majority of women who
are victims are often forced to succumb
to forced sex or even marital rape
through coercion, threats, or another of
the above-mentioned forms of intimi-
dation. The emotional and psycho-
logical impacts of domestic violence
can be brutal. The longer such abuse
lasts, the deeper into the pit of despair
the victim will sink as she is isolated
from friends and all potentially caring
persons. She believes that the abuse
may be a consequence of her own be-
havior and poor judgment. This is
often the ultimate goal of the abuser,
who, as a result of his own insecurity
seeks complete control over all aspects
of his spouse’s life.

It is important to keep in mind that
not all such relationships are connu-
bial. In fact, many abusive spouses
begin a pattern of abuse during their
teen years which is carried on through-
out their college years as well.

Fortunately, there is help for the
battered spouse. As Pam Patton, col-
umnist for The News-Gazette, said in a
recent article, “Sometimes we prefer to
believe that these things don’t happen
here in Rockbridge Countv.” People

sion becomes a

process of seem-

ingly unbearable
ain.

That is why there are special hotlines
and organizations in town to ease this
process. One of the more prominent
organizations is called Project Hori-
zon. Project ‘Horizon was conceived
by two workers at the Rockbridge
Mental Health Clinic and Department
of Social Services. The Project first
began as a spouse abuse information
pamphlet detailing the available ser-
vices for abused adults. It gained mo-
mentum in the late summer of 1983,
beginning a public awareness cam-
paign, holding several programs on
domestic violence, and receiving local
media coverage during Domestic Vio-
lence Awareness Week. In 1985, a
domestic violence hotline was estab-
lished. It was coordinated and staffed
by 20 volunteers on evenings and week-
ends. In the late 1980’s, the role of
Project Horizon became more pro-
nounced with an increase in the hotline
to 24-hour service and the provision of
emergency shelter services with the
additional availability of long-term
shelter provision through alternative
sources. Project Horizon’scurrent goal
is the establishment of their own long-
temi shelter here in Rockbridge County.
In addition, there is now a weekly sup-
port group for victims of domestic vio-
lence as well as a day care program for
the victim’s children.

The support group is the single most
therapeutic system available for vic-
tims as they are able to grapple with
their fears and insecurities with their
peers: those who have experienced the
same hellish nightmare of domestic
abuse. “Support group is an opportu-
nity for victims to express their fear,
anxiety and anger in a safe environ-
ment,” says Lorri Olan, Project
Horizon’s Client Services Coordina-
tor. At first victims are reluctant to join

after that. They come back because
they come to realize that they are not
alone and that they are not the ones
with the problem,‘ that they are
only victims.

The hotline is without a doubt the
most important service the Project pro-
vides in that it provides a comforting
listener, someone who will lend a sym-
pathetic ear to an abused spouse and
will let her know what her options are.
People manning the hotline are volun-
teers, many of whom are students at
W&L. All volunteers on the hotline
are female, as most callers happen to be
female and would certainly feel awk-
ward talking to a male upon making
initial contact with the Project. Many
volunteers from the school are enrolled
in developmental psychology and ob-
tain volunteer hours for their class by
working for the Project.

For those who are interested in vol-
unteering, the next training meetings
will occur in January and will be di-
vided into two three hour sessions.
Even though men are not able to work
on the hotline, they are still encouraged
to volunteer for
the program if
they have an in-
terest as their as-
sistance in other

——————CC_..__

thing that will happen in a mild case
should a victim choose to prosecute is
that a civil protective order will be
issued by the judge if he so chooses
upon hearing the victim’s plea. If the
abuser violates this order, the victim
can call the police and press criminal
charges. In more serious cases such as
battery or assault, criminal proceed-
ings are in order. In some cases the
victim does not wish to follow through
with the proceedings for obvious rea-
sons, such as the humiliation involved
in public confession or simply the over-
whelming fear that such proceedings
will not produce the desired result, that
is the imprisonment of the batterer.
Often the victim will abandon the case
with hopes that their relationship with
the abuser can be remedied. In certain
cases when the victim does not follow
through, the state can assume the case,
if it deems that it has a strong case,
worthy of prosecution.

There are numerous other things the
Project is doing specifically for Do-
mestic Violence Awareness Month.
Among them are included prevention
programs at the el-
ementary and jun-
ior high schools, a
large banner over-
hanging route 11

2l1)reas of the Sometimes we pre_ into town, public
roject would be . announcements
valued. During fer to belleve that on radio, and Op-
trainingsessions, these  don? eration Kiss-a-
volunteers are - Cop,aprogram to
taught what to do happen. here tn thank officers for
about crisis calls, Rockbrldge County. theiraidindomes-
which are calls ticviolence cases.

provoked by re-
cent occurrences
of abuse. They are also taught to let the
victims know what their options are.
They are equipped with manuals that
provide guidelines for what to do in
certain situations as well as referral
numbers for attorneys, shelters, and
other organizations.

Some other organizations which
provide aid for victims of domestic
violence or help to alleviate conditions
which contribute to the proliferation of
domestic violence are: DSS and Total
Action Against Poverty, two programs
which provide food stamps and other
provisions to ﬁnancially troubled fami-
lies, Rockbridge Area Relief Associa-
tion and the Local Food Banks, which
serve a similar purpose, Rockbridge
Mental Health Clinic, Parent Empow-
erment Projects, which help to prevent
abuse and to provide guidance for in-
experienced or abused parents, and the

Rockbridge Area Coalition Against

There are also

speaking engage-
ments on the subject of domestic vio-
lence at local symposiums. The
Rockbridge Regional Library in Lex-
ington, the Best Seller, the Bookery
and the Second Story Bookshop will
have displays of books and materials
dealing with domestic violence. Rib-
bon-tying displays will be located in
various spots around town and the
University at which people can tie rib-
bons in honor sexual assault or domes-
tic violence. W&L also hosted a play
on Tuesday, Oct. 11 dealing with date
rape entitled “But I Said No.” The
W&L Law School will hold a sympo-
sium on domestic abuse on Oct. 26.

. Domestic violence is a heinous crime

and an all too common occurrence.

Hopefully this month the word will
get out through the combined efforts of
Project Horizon and other organiza-
tions in the area.

 If onlvone case of domestic vio-

Welcome Parents
Alttttt " Eﬁllllﬁ Still The Leading

Date rape theater
show visits W&L

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

“But I Said No,” a play about
acquaintance rape, captured its au-
dience with the realistic portrayals
of real-life rape survivors’
stories Tuesday night in the
Lenfest Center.

Written by Margaret Baldwin
and Doug Grissom, the play was
performed by the Offstage Theater
Company of Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia. Audience members were
clearly moved by the “powerful”
performance and some were even
brought to tears. According to the
performers, the play was intended
to promote sympathy for victims of
rape and teach them they are
not alone.

The Offstage Theater Company,
created in 1990, has toured the na-
tion with “Butl Said No.” The group
originated within the University of
Virginia Theater and later contin-
ued on to establish their own com-
pany. They perform for colleges
and high schools throughout the
nation promoting awareness about
date rape. The group also has pre-
sented their work to national
conferences of male and
female fraternities.

During the perfonnance, the ac-
tors allude to sortie grim statistics.
Among these are one in four college
women are victims of date rape.
Alcohol is involved in 90 percent of
all rapes. 90 percent of acquain-
tance rapes victims are between their
senior year in high school and fresh-
man year in college. Finally, it is
estimated that as many as 90 per-

cent of rapes go unreported.

The Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Health Committee distrib-
uted a pamphlet before the perfor-
mance. It offers steps in avoiding
potential rape scenarios such as keep-
ing communication lines open and
honest between men and women. It
emphasizes personal responsibility
by avoiding excessive alcohol con-
sumption which may cloud judge-
ment. The pamphlet also offers ac-
tions which should be taken if you
are assaulted. For example, it re-
minds victims that it is not their
fault, to tell someone immediately,
and to get medical exam before
showering. The pamphlet also re-
minds friends of victims to be sup-
portive and not to judge or blame.

After the performance, the per-
formers led an interactive audience
discussion. The responses to the play
were positive. Most agreed the play
was “draining to watch and
very powerful.”

Some suggested improvements
such as a lengthier and more fo-
cused treatment of same-sex as-
saults. Another congratulated the
script for calling the survivors
of date rape survivors instead
of victims.

By providing for programs like
“But I Said No,” the W&L Health
Education Committee hopes to in-
crease awareness of sexual assault
on campus.

University Health officials rec-
ommend reading the literature about
sexual assault services for the school
and the surrounding community
which can be located in both the
University Center and the Student
Health Center.

a  a

 
 

Men’s

   

Clothing Store In Lengto

__L._1 1.‘  ___ ,. 
~ ~=-r--‘nu I ” nuQx.--~m~am. 9
W. .,.,, .
.( 3 3. a
.: am 005:.“ ‘~ -—" '2
new   :‘
«answer: -ouxIr&§.IxC&s.... '-Natl!-:iCI1r-antenna-rnIuv‘°
A
_ I
Dcmna
4.
:;~.~- - "'1" *
4

   A11 Suilzsd or  0% Off .

, SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts Duckhead Khaki’s

’ WOOLRICH W&L Belts, Dog Collars, Visors,
Embassy Boxers Ties, and Straw Hats

, Long Sleve Sports Shirts 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos
Leather Watchbands F01‘ma1 Shim

Shoes by Bass, T opsider, Clark’s, Walkover Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets

, Ray.Bans Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts
Corduroy Pants Confederate Cumrnerbund and Tie
Cashmere Blend Topcoats Sets and Belts

. Red Wing Boots W&L Mink Ties '

Wool Slacks

 

 OPEN THIS SUNDAY 10 a.m.

. Alvin - iﬂetmia

Phone (703) 463-5383 I
Since 1963
STUDENT F

VISA CHARGE ACCOUNTS MASTERCARD

 
 

chm

 

 

    

PAGE 8

an rang-mm rain

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

To raise or not to raise?

Last week, Executive Committee Vice President Alex
Cross proposed that the EC raise the student activity fee as
much as $15 or $20 from its current level of $135 per student,
per year.

Each fee increase of one dollar will raise approximately
$2000 more for the student body. A $15 increase will increase
the EC’s disposable income by $30,000.

An increase of $15, however, would not greatly increase
the amount of money available to the BC; the committee was
“tight,” according to Cross, this year with a $15,000 grant
thanks to President John Wilson and $15,000 left from the
previous year. A $20 increase, or $40,000, would leave the
EC with a “buffer” fund to carry over from year to year, or
more money to spend on bands, Mock Convention, and
student publications.

“With a little bit of foresight, we won’t have to raise the fee
for two or three more years,” said Cross. “Last time the EC
raised it, they didn’t take into account that we would have to
raise it again so soon.”

An extra $15 or $20 on top of a $13,000+ tuition will not
strain anyone’s pocketbook. The fee goes straight back to us,
for our pleasure, edification and appetite, so money lost (and
probably never felt) is really money gained for an entire
community.

The EC is hoping for feedback from students; stop by a
meeting or drop a note in the University Center. It can only
benefit us all.

Statistics can prove anything...

Between high school English class and perhaps English
213 here at W&L, I’m sure most everyone has read Jonathan
Swift’s essay, “A Modest Proposal.”

Swift threw out statistic after statistic to satirically justify
the consumption of economically disadvantaged Catholic
children in Ireland so their parents could live more comfort-
ably and problems such as overpopulation and hunger. Swift
advised the Irish to commence cannibalism in an effort to
caution the reader about the many ways in which statistics
may be interpreted.

He makes the point that behind every statistic there is a
human being and an individual.

There are three stories in this issue of the Phi, whose
subject is based almost solely on polls and other statistical
data. These stories paint a very distinct, and many times
wholly negative, picture of Washington and Lee University.

Much of the information is probably dangerously close to
the truth. But all of it should be taken with a grain of salt.
These are statistics, and any good C-school student knows
that statistics can be manipulated to prove almost anything.

It does not necessarily follow that someone did manipulate
the numbers in order to cast a dark shadow over the school.
But the numbers can and will be taken too seriously (just as
some people took Swift in absolute seriousness and wrote
letters to the editors of British papers denouncing his foolish
idea).

We suggest you use the numbers only as an addendum to
the personal information you already have from your experi-
ence at Washington and Lee. If any of it shocks or disappoints
you, remember, the data came from former students. If you do
not agree with anything, no one better than you can make the
results different next time.

Quote of the Week:

“It will be held over at the witch school —I mean,
the law school.”
——Professor of English Dabney Stuart, announcing
the lecture on “Possession, Witchcraft, and the Law
in Jacobean England. ”

@112 ﬁtting-mm lﬂhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MalcoIm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrew Schneider

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁoe, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

 OPINION

The Ringtum Phi, October 14, 1994

  
 

- No Room AT THE INN -—
PARENTS WEEKEND “H

in i
mm

L Ext NG'r‘o
W5!-CoM£ MR

Winning Congress won’t change America

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

Any Republican who has been pay-
ing even remote attention to the news
has tobe excited. This Fall, forthe first
time in 40 years, Republicans look
poised to do magniﬁcently at the polls.
Some commentators have predicted
that the GOP will take control of the
Senate; this would most likely force
Clinton to make a radical turn to the
right and might, therefore, truly spell
the end of the Old Democrats. But
even more exciting is the possibility,
conﬁdently held out by none other than
Newt Gingrich, that Republicans might
win control of the House of Represen-
tatives; such a blessed turn of events, if
we recall, has not occurred since the
administration of Harry Truman. It
would represent a watershed in Ameri-
can politics.

Two things work to limit the giddy
enthusiasm of Republicans at this stage,
however. First, none of this has hap-
pened yet. Commentators predicted
massive changes would occur during
and after the Congressional elections
of 1992 as well, and we all know how
disappointingly that turned out. In-
deed, so little has changed in Washing-
ton that now, for the first time in poll-
ing history, a majority of Americans
are dissatisﬁed with not only the Con-
gress in general, but with their Con-

gressman.

Second, though, Republicans must
draw back from jubilation for an even
more signiﬁcant reason: the American
people, who are currently demonstrat-
ing so much enthusiasm for the GOP,
are the same bunch of numskulls who
elected all our current Congressmen,
not to mention Bill Clinton, in the first
place. I know that many Republicans
sincerely believe that America’s salva-
tion lies in the election, say, of Oliver
North to the Senate, or perhaps in con-
trol of the Senate itself, but I entertain
no such delusions. I believe, rather,
that who controls the Congress is, in
the broader perspective of history,
rather unimportant.

It is worth dwelling on this latter
point, so let us pause to consider for a
moment just what it is that we conser-
vatives believe about American soci-
ety and how it works. It is old-hat to
say that Democrats believe (usually, at
least, even if they never admit it) that
‘government is the answer to the prob-
lems of individuals’ — but what do
Republicans believe?

I propose the following: Republi-
cans believe, or at least they should,
that individuals are the answer to the
problems of government and society
—— the exact converse of the Demo-
crats’ belief, logically enough. What
this means is that Republicans put the
burden of action on individuals, ex-
pecting them to behave in socially ben-
eﬁcial ways, while Democrats put the
burden on government to facilitate the
welfare of individuals. It is, to be
simplistic, a question of statism versus
individualism. Republicans have al-
ways believed in the potential of indi-

viduals, and have thus been willing to
give those individuals the freedom to
pursue their own designs. The ﬂip side
of this freedom is the fact that Repub-
licans are much more willing to hold

stead of legislators should give us a
glimmer of an even more distressing
fact: Americans consistently vote for
Democrats not because they are, at
heart, conservatives who just happen

i n d i - to be eas-
viduals ily duped;
respon-  they vote
sible for f o r
thin gs D e in o -
they do crats be-
22;: nus) I know that many Repub- gee“ : ‘*6
a11<>w_s°- licans sincerely believe d o wjn .
ciety to th t . , l t. there is a
deter- 0 America 8 sa va l0n partofthe
m i n e . . . American
w h a t lies in the election, say, of spirit that
‘wrong’ . has been,
,s)_ The Oliver North to the Senate, Sh,“ we
Nationis - say, in-
achildof or perhaps in control of the fe C , 6 d
j, " ° Senate itself; but I enter- ‘‘’.i"' “"3

eople, virus of
rather tain no such delusions. Liberal-
than the i s m .
o t h e r What I
w a y   m e a n
around. most to

This is a very theoretical argument,
I realize, but it has consequences for
what we were discussing before, the
Fall elections. First, since a nation is a
collection (albeit organic) of individu-
als, what really counts is not who is
making the laws, but who is electing
the lawmakers; it is the strength, the
intelligence, and the nobility of char-
acter of the average citizen that will
determine the welfare of the state. It
goes without saying that a single elec-
tion will seldom change any of these.
And second, this focus on people in-

suggest, then, is that Liberalism is much
more than just a maniacal collection of
conupt and despicable politicians; it
is, rather, in its most dangerous form, a
mindset — a mindset that enjoys con-
siderable currency with the American
people. If conservatives want to carry
the day in the United States, therefore,
then they will have to begin looking at
the bigger picture. Losing an election
to conservatives is a setback to Liber-
als, but only losingthe hearts and minds
of America to conservativism would
be a deathblow.

Nova
CLARKE,
’96

 

One of my most vivid memories from junior
high school is of watching the Iran-Contra trials.
They were on every channel, like O..l. is now. There
was a time when I could sketch Oliver North from
memory because I saw him on TV so much. Now
the same face is back on TV and in the papers as
“fonner Marine Colonel Oliver North runs for the
Senate from the Old Dominion.”

The situation is far scarier this time. To even
imagine that a man who blatantly lied to Congress
may be elected to that same body is devestating. It
is far worse than Iran-Contra, because that was
conducted without the knowledge of the public.
Now the citizens are fully infonned, they know his
past, and they know the disgust that many decent
people feel.

Admittedly, North was not actually convicted of
lying to Congress, he got off on a technicality. The
sameconservativeswhocomplain about othercrimi-

rials getting out of jail because of technicalities and

criticize the judicial system are unwilling to shine
the same bright light into the recesses of the judicial

process when it concerns North.

People have suggested that the attack on North
is based on the segment of the population that has
never served in the military. He has suggested this
of Chuck Robb. However, Robb was a Marine
Corp Major who served in Vietnam, something he

could have easily have gotten out
of, considering his father-in-law
was the President.

Former Joint Chiefs chairman
and potential GOP presidential
nominee Gemeral Colin Powell
has said, “Based on my work ex-
perience with him [North], and
my knowledge, Colonel North is

not someone I would sup rt or
vote for. I know the ield of
candidates. I have worked with
them...and Colonel North is the
only one I would eliminate.”
Former Navy Secretary,
James H. Webb (a Republican) is
supportingRobbbecause“...ithas
become imperative for anyone
who respects the Marine Corps as

an institution to say ‘enough is enough.’” These men
understand the military mindset and they still see

North as being wrong.

Character more important than issues

The basic fact is that North lied. If he had been a
student here he would have been asked to leave

because of an Honor Violation.

(C

The basic fact is
that North lied.
If he had been a
student here he
would have been
asked to leave
because of an
Honor Violation.

 

Let’s consult a more fundamental source then the
Honor System, the Bible. North and his supporters
wave the Bible around and condemn Robb for his
marital indescretions. The Bible objects just as strongly
to lying. “Lying lips are abomination to the Lord,”

(Proverbs 12:22) or “He that
worketh deceit shall not dwell
within ny house: he that telleth
lies shallnot tarry in my sight”
(Psalms 101:7). How conve-
nient North supporters can ig-
nore that part of the Bible.

The voters are focusing
on character.

Polls have found that the ma-
jority of Virginia voters have
no idea where their candidates
stand on speciﬁc issues.

People are voting without
considering whether the candi-
dates represent them. Then these
same people will complain
about Congress not represent-
ing them.

It’s times like these that I am glad to be a registered
voter of Florida. Miami may have its share of crimi-

nals, but we don’t have Ollie.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1994

~ OPINION

Betsy finds booze, smokes and guns

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

There are certain pieces of Wash-
ington and Lee culture—icons, if you

x will— that every student should, at

some point, experience. Spring term
trips to Goshen. The General Lee at
Lee-Hi. A bad hook-up. The wide ar-
ray of party pics after Fancy Dress

' ' (“l’d planned to just look for my black

dress!”). Taco bar at Letitia Pate Evans
Dining Hall. I’d like to add another

~ ‘icon that should be a part of W&L life:

Kelly’s Comer.

About two and a half miles away
from campus, past Liberty Hall ruins,
past the Keydet-General is this true
piece of Americana. Kelly’s Comer is
exactly the kind of place my dad took
me before a ﬁshing trip. lt’s aplace that
deﬁes the passage of time, a place to
revere. At least, that’s what my dad
would tell me.

On the outside, Kelly’s Corner
doesn’t look like much, which is ex-
actly how it should look. A place like
Kelly’s Corner doesn’t need a fancy
logo or neon sign. Some chipped white
paint, an old Coca Cola sign, and ad-
vertisements for live bait and ﬁshing
and hunting licenses are all that is
needed. Any time of day, any day of the
week, you’ll see a pickup truck
outside.

Once you head inside Kelly’s Cor-

ner, it is readily apparent what their
major source of income is. Cases of
Natural Light are stacked to the ceil-
ing. Two coolers are filled with
Milwaukee’s Best. Another cooler is
packed with Bud, Coors, and Pabst.
Almost hidden behind the Coors are
two dusty bottles of white wine and a
lone Zima. These people’s priorities
are as clear as their target audience.
Kelly’s Comer seems to supple-
ment their sales of cheap beer with a
dazzling array of potato chips, but don ’t
even think about ﬁnding some reduced
fat Dorito’s there. A few of the other
food items for sale seem considerably
more unpopular. One goes to Kelly’s
Comer to buy beer and chips, not to
buy Vienna Sausages, spaghetti, maple
syrup, and especially not feminine hy-
giene products. Although I did not con-
duct any interviews, I’d feel pretty
secure in saying that the average Kelly ’s
Comer customer scoffs at the idea of
buying feminine hygiene products.
Items like duct tape (the solution to any
given problem in the universe), sand-
wich ﬁxings, and, inexplicably, huge
wheels of cheese are also quick sellers.
Kelly’s Corner is also a unique
source for fashion. Eventually safety
orange and camouﬂage will be all the
rage on the runways. Why pay the high
Paris designer prices or wait for them
to come to TGIF when you can get
them now at Kelly’s Corner? Any out-
ﬁt becomes instantly memorable when
you add an orange vest. At least you’ll

be easier to spot in those FD party pics.

Kelly’s Corner doubles as a good
place hang out. The back room does
have sparse concrete floors, ‘but it also
has a pool table. I’d love to go there
some after-
noon to
hustle good
ol’ boys at
nine ball
like Marisa
Tomei in
My Cousin
Vinny. The
back room
also houses
video games
that time for-
got. Bring a
stack of
quarters to
play Ms. Pac
Man and
Atari’s Kangaroo.

For those desiring a little adult en-
tertainment, Kelly’s Corner has cur-
rent issues of Playboy, Penthouse, Hus-
tler, and Oui. There are also stacks of
old issues of Playboy to rival the col-
lection of even the most avid...err,
reader. If you really need a copy ofthe
1977 College Girls of the South spe-
cial, this is the place to go.

Need a gun? Need bullets? I’m tell-
ing you, Kelly’s Corner is like one stop
shopping. As my beloved ex-husband
Joel Symonds and the incomparable
Trip Kucera are wont to point out,

 it also has a pool
table. I ’d love to go there
some aﬂernoon to hustle
good ol’ boys at nine ball
like Marisa Tomei in
My Cousin Vinny

tobacco, alcohol, and ﬁrearms must
belong together, or else the govem-
ment wouldn’t have put them together.
I once had a fascinating discussion
with a Kelly’s Corner employee about
gun laws in
Virginia. Per-
haps spotting
me as a lib-
eral, she ex-
plained, “lt’s
not as easy to
get a gun in
Virginia as
you might
think.” It was
all terribly en-
l i g h t e n i n g
and, at least
for a moment,
took my mind
off of the fact
that a shotgun
hanging from the ceiling on display
was pointed at my head.

My brother’s friend Jeff used to
describe being dragged by his parents
to various concerts and art museums as
“getting cultured.” He didn’t like it,
but like trips to the dentist, he knew it
was good for him. But there are some
forms of culture that might not seem
torturous at all. Blow off yourwork and
shoot pool, buy some cheap beer and
potato chips. Pick up some antique
pornography, then go hunting. Kelly’s
Comer is a cultural experience not to be
missed. It’s good for you.

F

ILEMIEHEFIIIITNElEU”TUM”£E"7llﬂﬂﬂnﬁﬂhﬂdlllk

The Ring-tum Phi
P.0. Box 399
Lexington, VA 24450

          artheycanbesubmitted  .   
  (.70 Carol Caullrins   in the University

llﬂﬂtﬁﬂf

W

Photos and Layout by Hans Yao

  TALKBACK

Bicycle

If you lost a Schwinn bicycle
recently or if you suspect it was
stolen, please call the Lexington
Police at 463-2112 to identify.

Art Exhibit

Professor Kathleen Olson will be
giving a lecture to introduce her
exhibit Generations on Friday, Oct.
14, at 5:00 in duPont Gallery. A
reception will follow. The exhibit is
on display in duPont Gallery until
Nov. 10.

Seniors!!

The last day to have Senior pic-
tures taken will be Oct. 19. Sign up
for Senior pictures in the co-op. If
you have not paid for your picture
yet, drop off a $20 check in Carol
Caulkin’s ofﬁce.

Phi

If you are interested in writing
for the Phi, or working on the busi-
ness side, please stop by our story
board meeting on Tuesdays at 7 p.m.
in the University Center Room 208.

Eating Problems

A confidential support group for
woman students with eating prob-
lems will meet Wednesday after-
noons beginning Oct. 19. Call the
Counseling Service at ext. 8750 or
the Health Center at ext. 8401 to
receive additional information.

Meet the Banker

All students are invited to “Meet
the Banker.” Matt Steilberg, ’87, an
English and German major who
works for First Union Bank will be
on campus Oct. 19 between 1:00
and 2:00 in the Career Development
Ofﬁce Library, to discuss how a
liberal arts degree translates to the
business world.

Resumes

There will be a resume workshop

on Monday, Oct. 17, at3:00 p.m.' in ‘7

Room 109 of the University center.
All students are invited.

Campus Register

The 1994-95 campus register is
now available.

Internships

There willbe an internship work-
shop on Tuesday, Oct. 18, at 4:00
p.m. in Room 108 of the University
Center. All students are invited.

J OBS!!

Attention all Seniorsll Don’t
miss the SLAC Job Fair intervews
in Atlanta, Chicago, D.C., Dos An-
geles, New York, Philadelphia, and
San Fransisco. Over 135 companies
are participating. Deadline is Oct.
21. Come to the CDPO for more
information. The Career Develop-
ment Ofﬁce will be open from 7:00
- 9:00 p.m. on Oct. 17,18,19, and 20
for seniors to review job descrip-
tions and submit resumes.

Interviews

There will be videotaped prac-
tice interviews all day on Thursday,
Oct. 19, in Room 109 of the Univer-
sity Center. Prior sign-up is required.

Film Society

The Film Society will be show-
ing Farewell, My Concubine at
8:00 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 14, and at
7:00 and 9:30 p.m. on Saturday,
Oct. 15 in the Troubadour Cinema.

Flu Shots

Inﬂuenza vaccine is available at
the Student Health Center for $5.
The vaccine helps prevent ﬂu and
has minimal side effects. Stop by or
call Student Health at ext. 8401 for
further information.

Yearbook

Yearbook pictures for under-
classmen independents and fresh-
man women will be taken Sunday,
Oct. 16, at the University Center
Room 108 from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. and
from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.

Last Lectures

The Last Lecture Series will be-
gin on Thursday, Oct. 27, in the
GHQ at 6:30 p.m. ‘

Women’s Forum

The Women’s forum presents
“Being Female inthe 90s,” which is
based on polls from W&L women.
It will be presented Tuesday, Oct.
18, at 7:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women’s Center

What are you up cramming for?

Andrew Ruppar ’98, Copperas

Neil Kelleter ’97, Coral Springs,

Cheryl Taurassi ’96, Smithtown,

Chris Wick ’97, Pepper Pike, OH
- “Modem Chinese History with

Professor Jeans. ”
1:29 a.m.

Cove, TX - “Comparative Govem-
ment with Professor Handelman”
1:12 a.m.

FL -“Politics 203 and U.S. History,
Professors Smith and Merchant. ”
1:41 a.m.

sor France.”

NY - “Organic Chemistry with Profes-

1:45 a.m.

Matthew Coker ’98, Monroe GA-
“Calculus 101, Politics 100, and Ger-
man, with Professors Vinson, Hall, and
Crockett.”

Big News - Small Price

Subscribe to The Ring-tum Phi for only $30 a year.

Name

Address

Phone

Pat 0’ Connell ’98, Montclair NJ-
“Politics 100 with Professor Rush.”
3:18 a.m.

  

1“’:‘x*q2u ity

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1994

Freshman elections garner many participants

By KELLEY Tornsu
Phi Staff Writer

Freshmen elections for the positions of Presi-
dent, Vice President, and Executive Committee
Representative will be held Monday, October
17 from 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. Election results will be
posted by 5:30 p.m.

Run—offs will take place Tuesday, October
25. These are usually necessary due to the large
number of candidates.

Listed below is each candidate’s name and
how he/she feels they can contribute to Wash-
ington and Lee throught their respective of-
fices. Freshmen can learn more about the can-
didates on Thursday, October 13. Speeches
begin at 7 p.m. in Lee Chapel. 1

Freshmen Presidential Candidates:

Pictures follow each quotation.

Chris Baldwin - “I am running for class
president because I have the leadership abilities
and experience to articulate the interests and
concerns of the freshmen class. If elected, I will
bring a healthy work ethic, a dependable pres-
ence and a judicious mind set to the office.“

 

Byron Burns - “I want to be more involved
on campus. People don’t always take me seri-
ously, but I am serious about this.”

 

Emily Giannini - “It’s a means to channel
my energy, enthusiasm, and creativity into ben-
eﬁting and uniting my class as a whole.”

 

Matthew Graves - “I have served on school,
state, and national leadership positions before,
and I feel I can be an effective leader for the
freshmen class.”

 

Vice-Presidential Candidates:

Laura-Ashley Allen - “I’m running for fresh-
man Vice-President because I love W&L and I
want to be actively involved in it. I know that I
can be fair and maintain honor as an officer on

the student conduct committee, the SCC, and I
also will get my class involved and make sure

their voices are heard.”

 

Tofer Harrison — “I want to get involved with
our school and my class and help us to have an
exciting year.”

 

Andrew Heron - “I’ll make a definite and
positive effect for my class and the college.”

 

Mary Jo Mahoney - “I am really interested in
getting involved in the class. I hope to increase
class unity and I can contribute fairness, time
and effort to the SCC.”

 

Jennifer Murphy — “I’m running for Vice-
President to get involved at W&L and in the
political processes here. I think I could contrib-

ute strong leadership and enthusiasm.”

 

E.C. Representatives:

Alex Christensen - “I am running because
all of the other candidates’ names sounded like
spy names and what I feel I can contribute is
restoring W&L’s freshmen class to peace, pros-
perity, and its historical position as a one world
superpower.”

 

Chris Condon — “I’m running because I’d
like to take an active role in decision making. I
think EC is very involved in the school and
what happens here, and I’d like to be a part of
that. I have a definite passion for the Honor
System - I can’t imagine going to school any-
where else.” V -

Photo
not
avail-
able

Elizabeth Detter - ‘‘I’m running for the EC
because I think that I’m an honest and consci-
entious person. I can offer a lot to the EC
because I am trustworthy.”

 

Gregory Scot Kees - “I deeply believe in the
values and traditions inherent in the honor“
system. For me the most natural expression of
my devotion to the honor system is to dedicate
myself to the service of those principles. Dili-
gence and perseverance. I can’t and won’t say
that I have more honor and integrity than any
other student; under the honor system we all
possess these qualities in equal measure. What
I can say is that I am willing to commit myself
to the defense of the honor system’s principles
and hopefullycan prove that I am worthy of the
faith of my classmates.”

 

Demian McGarry — “In addition to the EC
being an oversight for the honor code, it also
involves budget concerns. I feel I have the
expertise and know how to represent the fresh-
men class and keep the majority of the class’
interests in mind during the budget process.”

 

Kelly Monaghan - “I want to try and give
back to W&L as much as it has given to me.”

 

To All
Parents

Serving Washington & Lee Since 1926

Stephen Osborn - “All throughout elemen-
tary and high school, I chose to be a leader and
found it very gratifying to serve others. Now in
this new environment, I’m anxious to grow and
serve, giving as much as possible to W&L. l’ve
always tried to live with some integrity, fair-
ness, respect, and hopefully humility in mind;
therefore, I was naturally attracted to the EC
and its protection of the honor system and
students’ rights.

 

Andrew Ruppar - “I want to contribute to the
bond of trust and belief in personal responsibil-
ity that exists among W&L students. I feel that
by participating in a wide range of school
organizations and talking with students, I can
best represent their opinions in the budget hear-
ings on topics varying from club funding to
changes in the costs of student activities fees.”

 

Taylor Shultz - “I’m running for EC be-
cause, like many others, the authenticity of the
honor system was the deciding factor in my
decision to come here and I want to do every-
thing I can to uphold that tradition. I can con-
tribute by providing a freshman’s perspective,
one that is somewhat naive, idealistic, and
conservative, while at the same time open
minded. I wouldn’t be running if I wasn’t
prepared to commit my time and energy or if I
wasn’t committed to upholding honor in my
own life.”

 

Danielle Simonetta - “I didn’t have an honor
code at my school. I see how the power of
everything is in the the students’ hands. I know
it is time consuming, but I’m prepared to deal
with it and put my reputation on the line for the
honor code and W&L.“

Photo
not
avail-
able

Kirsten Smith - “I’m running because I
would like to get more involved in the school,
and I think they need more girls on the commit-
tee. I think it would be a great experience.”

 
 

Kyle Trivett - “The honor system is the
reason I chose W&L and I want to make sure it
is perpetuated. I think I am qualiﬁed because I
have a strong sense of honor.”

 

Miller Wild - “I graduated from a high
school that had an honor system very similar to
the one we have at W&L. I am very impressed
with the honor system here and it was one of the .
major inﬂuencing factors in my decision to
attend W&L. The honor system is an important
and unique aspect of W&L and I want to be a
part of the body that promotes and upholds the
honor system here.” —

 

Sophomores

honored
from Staff Reports

The following 41 students will be
inducted into the Washington and Lee
Chapter of Phi Eta Sigma, a National
Honor Society for freshman. The cer-
emony is at 3:30 p.m. Friday, Ocober
14, 1994, in Northern Auditorium.

Mark Applegate, Elizabeth Bahn,
Catherine Bassett, Fritz Berckmueller,
K0-Ming Chang, Torsten Chase, Kelly
Christianson, Elizabeth Cox, James
Felton, Reed Fendley, Joseph Fisher,
Megan Flohr, Elizabeth Fritze, Anna
Gorokhov, Jennifer Grant, Frank Grif-
fin IV, William Haase, Susan Hall, Tara
Hebert, Marthe Hirschy, Nathan Hottle,
Amy Jarvis, Timothy Jenkins, Fabio
Knijnik, William Lamb, Ange-line
Lawson, Holly Layman, Laura Marshall,
Angela Matney, Anthony Mazzarelli,
Cathy Merritt, Natalie Messmore, Kelly
Naro, Hillary Olson, Melissa Sawyer,
Jason Schaffer, Jonathan Small, Justin
St. Clair, Trevor Stockinger, Aaron
Wilkinson, and James Wilson.

E--.

Corbin Suits/Sport Coats 0 Ruff
Hewn - Men’s 0 Civil War Ties O
Sero/Gitman Shirts 0 B.D.
Baggies 0 Jones 0 Ruff Hewn
Ladies 0 Lanz O Woolrich O

Confederate Braces C Timberland

Thank You For Your Support

In app

Men’s Timberland

A Smash Hit!

 

Open Sunday - 10 to 3

ALL SPORT COATS,

BLAZERS AND SUITS
20% Off
LADIES JACKETS
20% Off

  The College Town Shop

111 West Nelson Street AMEX. - Master Charge - VISA

reciation — we are offering

Our Ladies Window

Great Barn Jackets

See

\

\

 

    

1

 

  
 

The Ring-tum  October 14,    11

K

Sched tile for the 1 9 94 Parents’ Weekend
. I
    p.m.  a.m..  p.m.  
Art Department Lecture by Kathleen Appointments with Faculty and Football Game
’ O1 “G ' ,” xh'b' - Ad ' ' ' . —

«8:00 am. ingson enerations e i it open Indilniiiéiusﬁrlagggice Vvggtglgnviigzmpden Syndney University Registl_al_,s Om“
Classes Begin‘ Reception follows lecture Friday’ 8:30 a'm"4:30 P‘-m’
Parents are welcome to join their dupom Gallery 9,00 3 m _4_00 P m ‘ 2_00 P m Reid Hall

' ‘Students in their classrooms‘ Water Polo-EWPA Round Robin Men’s Soccer Game
. . . Leybum Library Book Sale
7:00-10:00 . . T bl P l W&L . V W 1 . e
1 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Obsewatorypoigen House Physics wom y 00 Libergza es cyan Friday, 8:00 a.m. through Tuesday,
’ Registration De ’ 0Ct0b€f 18-
, ' _ partment. 10:00 a.m. . .
‘University Center See the rings of Saturn, stars and Report of the Deans: “Academic and 3:00-5:00 p.m. Mam Lobby’ Leybum Library
     ‘.X:::‘:.::::        
Appointments with Faculty and Roof of Howe Hall David L. Howison, Dean of Students Gaines Gatehouse 10. Lee Avenue

‘(Administration Commerce School, Room 327 Fnday’.8:30 a'm°4:3Op'm

Individual 0/‘ﬂees 8:00 p.m. After the football game Reception’ 8 p'm'
Parents Weekend Choral Concert 10:00 a.m. Athletic Department—Reception for
3:304:30 p'm' University Chorus Chamber Sing- Applied Music Recital Athletes and their Parents Career Development and Place-

‘Reception with Faculty in The ers General Admission Southern W&L Student Musicians Warner Center ment Office
School of Commerce, Economics, C ’ f t J b.Le . ’ d P t H II A d- - Maningll’ HOUSC
and poiitics L;:nC::lI’,elll 1 e u on a u ltormms 7: 00_10:00 p.m. Interested parents are invited to visit

, Commerce School L‘-bmry 10:00 a.m. Observatory Open House the? offlce"

it 8:05 p.m. Model Law Class Physics Department. See the rings of I1:(r)1_%:)y’ 2:301':'_:30 pm’ Saturday’
3:30 p’m'_ Film: “Farewell, My Concubine” Lewis Hall, Moot Court Room Saturn, stars and constellations. ' am" '00 noon’
Mathematics Department

Colloquium: “Graph Theory in

"Historic Lexington: Our Summer
Vacation.” Matt Koerlin, ’95, Jean-
Guy Speton, ’95, and Jennifer

M Yanulavich, ’95.

“Refreshments 3:00 p.m.
Robinson Hall, Room 6

 
   
   

-:30-5:30 p.m.

Phi Eta Sigma Initiation for Sopho-
mores, their Parents and Advisers
Speaker, Dr. Larry Boetsch
‘Reception follows

Northen Auditorium

4:00-5:30

,President’s Open House for Fresh-
men and their Parents.

John and Anne Wilson, Hosts

Lee House

we WW‘  

(China: 1993)

Directed by Chen Kaige.
No admission charge.
Troubadour Cinema

9:00 p.m.

Parents’ Reception.
Entertainment by “Wildgrass”
(Bluegrass and Folk Music)
GHQ, University Center

Saturday, October 15

8:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
Registration
University Center

8:30 a.m.

Continental Breakfast and School of
Law Information Session

Lewis Hall, Faculty Lounge

100% COTTON THROW

ﬁaaliingtnn 8; I12: Bningrnity

LEXIAZGTUN \'lRGlNl.~\

FQIHN‘ DIED I74‘)

Virginia Born & Bred’s

Exclusive

16 West Washington St. Lexington

463-1832

N '1   _J..”.!{//

11:30 a.m.

Women’s Soccer Game
W&L vs. Swarthmore
Liberty Hall Field

11:30 a.m.

Report to Parents
President John D. Wilson
Lee Chapel

12:00-1:20 p.m.
Luncheon
Front Lawn

12:30-2:00 p.m.

Joseph R. Judge, author of Season of
Fire: The Confederate Strike on
Washington and a W&L parent, will
be signing book

W&L Bookstore

   

    

Spain

E
O
‘E
:2 on
5-
-. 1.’. Tuesday, October 19
i 2
E. é . at
: A Spring Term,
_; A Semester, or 7 P_M_
 3 A Full Year
\; :2 in
i «E;
8

France

STUDY ABROAD 

General Information Meeting

Denmark

Weather permitting. Warm dress
recommended.
Roof of Howe Hall

8:00 p.m.
Southern Comfort and J ubiLee
Lee Chapel

8:00 p.m.

Recital

Marina Jackson, viola

Travis Grant, clarinet

Lenfest Center, Keller Theatre

8:05 p.m.

Film: “Farewell, My Concubine”
(China:1993)

Directed by Chen Kaige

No admission charge.
Troubadour Cinema

   

Germany

Room 114 University Center

     
  

Financial Aid Office

Gilliam House: Interested parents are
invited to speak with ﬁnancial aid
personnel.

Friday, 1:00-4:30 p.m. Saturday,
9:00 a.m.-12:00 noon

Lee Chapel

Open for visiting.

Friday, 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.’ Satur-
day, 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.

Guide to Parents’ Weekend typed
by Michael Hewlett, layout by
Ethan Krupp and Emily Baker.

England

   
    

    
     
   
   

  

S03l¥(II3[lZ{)

 

Limited

Financial \
Aid ,

Available -.

To those parents who have already
signed up for a subscription, thank you.
And please bear with us, as we are in a
state of transition. We have decided that  

you should get what you pay for and
more, so from now on all
subscriptions will be mailed first-class
to ensure speedy delivery.
We are sorry for any inconvenience.

Ill

.-
-

-4»-
-0-

 

PAGE 12

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1994

W&L gridders net first victory against Davidson

   
     

 

‘ q.‘>.°«Ya.-ea!-hvi|'Q3~¢U-<».» 

'  .-... -

a.
ct
cu

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, Washington ad Lee University

Aaron Wilkinson carries the ball in one of W&L’s home games this season. The Generals have
not won yet in front of the home crowd, but they did pick up their first win of the season last

weekend against the Davidson Wildcats.

Men’s soccer hits winning streak

By ERIC SWENSEN
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team, sparked by
a new offensive alignment and continued excellent play
from their defense, won twice last week to boost their record
to 5-4-1 (3-3 in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference).

After a 3-0 loss to Randolph-Macon on Homecoming
Saturday, head coach Rolf Piranian and assistant Tony
Corbett made some changes in the team’s lineup to try and
get more production from the offense. The debut of the new-
look offense came last Wednesday against Bridgewater.

The changes worked perfectly, as the Generals con-
trolled the game from the outset in a 6-1 thrashing. Shag
Drewry and David Corning scored goals in the ﬁrst half as
the Generals entered halftime with a 2-0 lead.

Golas from Meeker, Germain, Bill Gill, and Kevin
Hackian put the game out of reach in the second half. Si gler,
who moved from his normal defender spot to an outside
midﬁeld spot as part of the changes, contributed assists on

three of the ﬁrst four goals.

Sigler praised his team’s performance, saying, “it was
total domination by us. Both our offense and defense played
excellently.”

The new offense continued to pay dividends against
Dickinson on Saturday, as junior tri-captain Jeb Wofford
scored two goals to lead the Generals past Bridgwater by a
score of 3-1. Coach Piranian is pleased with the results of the
changes.

“It seems like something may be gelling because we have
seen some chemistry on the ﬁeld,” said the head coach.

With the regular season winding down and the ODAC
Tournament approaching, Si gler is pleased with the progress
the team has made this season.

“Our attitude has been consistently good throughout the
season,” sommented Sigler, “our offense has been steadily
improving all year, and our defense has been solid through-
out.”

The Generals played twice this week, taking on Lynchburg
yesterday and Virginia Wesleyan on Saturday at 2:00 PM up
at the Liberty Hall Fields.

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Staff Writer

One was the magic number for Washington and Lee last
weekend.

The Generals kicked their ﬁrst ﬁeld goal, scored their
first touchdown, took their ﬁrst lead, and won their ﬁrst
game of the 1994 season by holding off the Davidson
Wildcats by a count of 9-3 at Richardson Field in Davidson,
N.C. last Saturday.

The victory, W&L’s fourth straight in the state of North
Carolina, raised the team’s record to 1-3, and kept Davidson
winless at 0-4.

“I’m quite proud of the team,” commented head coach
Gary Fallon. “They wanted it (the victory) badly.”

Although the Generals were greatly aided by offensive
improvement, the name of the game remained defense for
the fourth straight contest. More precisely, the name was
Stuart Hogue.

The junior safety had the Wildcats seeing stars after
ravaging them for nine tackles and two interceptions. His
ﬁrst pick killed a first and goal opportunity for Davidson,
and the second, with slightly over a minute remaining,
clinched the win for the Generals. For his efforts, Hogue was
recognized as the Old Dominion Athletic Conference De-
fensive Player of the Week.

“Stuart’s a deserving young man,” Fallon said. “He’s had
two good games in a row now.”

Hogue’s comrade in the defensive backﬁeld, Marc
Newman, also delivered with a huge effort, collecting 12
tackles, including the ﬁrst sack of his college career.

The Generals scored its ﬁrst points since the September
10 contest with Emory and Henry on Drew Thomas’ 39-yard
field goal, salvaging a 3-3 halftime tie. The offense really
came alive in the third quarter though.

Junior James Urban jump started the drive by returning
a punt 32 yards to set up a W&L at the Davidson 18.

Freshman Seth McKinlev plowed in the end zone from

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

The W&L men’s soccer team has turned  on in their last few games

two yards out to give the Generals their ﬁrst taste of a lead
this seasonat 9-3 as the Wildcats blocked the extra point
attempt. McKinley rushed for 62 yards on 17 attempts as he
piloted the W&L rushing attack for a second straight week.

Quarterback Brooks Fischer turned in a solid afternoon
by completing 13 of 27 passes for 91 yards. Senior William
Propst hauled in seven of those passes, tying him for ﬁfth
place on the W&L all-time list.

The key to the victory for Washington and Lee was that
after bumbling their way to 14 turnovers in the ﬁrst three
games, they played the Davidson contest turnover-free.

“We didn’t turn the ball over like the ﬁrst three games,”
commented Fallon. “The offense stayed on the ﬁeld longer,
and was able to give the defense a good rest.”

The rest paid huge dividends late in the fourth quarter, as
W&L twice snuffed out Davidson threats.

After the Wildcats crept inside the Generals 25 with
under four minutes to play, the Generals stiffened, and
forced Davidson to turn the ball over on downs.

Proving this was no fluke, W&L rose to the occasion for

the ﬁnal time with less than two minutes remaining on I

Hogue’s clinching interception at the W&L 27.

The Generals return to Wilson Field for their ﬁnal two
home games, beginning this weekend against the Hampden
Sydney Tigers, who enter with a mark of 1-4.

Home ﬁeld advantage has proved to be a huge intangible
in this series, which the Tigers lead 26-23-2. The host school
has treated its fans to victory six times in the last seven years.

last season, the Tigers outscored the Generals 28-20 at
Hampden Sydney’s Hundley Stadium. This year, W&Lwill
have to contend with Robert Thompson, who checks in at
third in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference with 532
yards rushing.

Fallon hopes the team will continue to be ﬁred up this
Saturday, especially considering the fact that Parents’ Week-
end is here.

“lt’s an added attraction. The kids get pleasure out of .

playing in front of their parents,” the coach said. “The
parents are phenomenal; they treat the kids so well. I want
to see the parents happv.”

  
 

hto by Bets n,
with a new hneup change.

For once, a cut
educational

With Apples special low student pricing, you can get a terriﬁc deal on Macintosh?
the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford-
able Macintosh Performaj’ which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help
get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple” PowerBook” or the Power

     
 
 

For further information visit University Computing in

   
 

Madnlarb‘ P9401-ma‘ 636 8/250 Power Maa'n!arb' 7100/66 8/250
with comm, Apple"C0lorPlusI4'DiyJlay, Apple'PowerBooIz‘ I50 4/120 0nIy$I,20I.00. u)I'l.bCD-ROMApPl€'M1l11lPl€S('dﬂl5Dl:$l0}',
app1epaugn'Ieyboaraandmou9e.onIy:1,624.oa A1pleDes1g7I' Keyboanlandmowe. 0nIy$2,480.00.

A Macintosh”— the worlds fastest Mac." And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com-
puter, you won’t have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac

is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to 1 .’
discover the power all college students need. The power to be your best?  C .

  ﬁlllCl{€I' Hall and ask for Ruth Floyd or call 463-8847

*Price does not include sales tax

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights merved Apple, IbeApple logo, Macintosh, Macinlarb Quadm, Peniirma, PowerBook and ”lbe power to be your best" are regirleral trademarks of Apple Compuxer, Inc. Applebmgm, Mac and Power Macintosh are trademarks qf Apple Computer, Inc.

    sp endiilig that  
actually helps students.

  

 

I

   
  

 

 
  

 

  

. The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 1994   PAGE 13
_y( .

   
    

    
    
 
       
      

 - — K V
_ THE NUMBERS GAME
.» VOLLEYBALL
Kill Err Att. Pct. Chad Dobbins 2 1 5
‘ A _ Hilary Martin 196 47 482 .309 Bill Sigler 1 5 7
‘‘ Elizabeth Bahn 110 44 301 .219 Kevin Hocking 1 1 3
' Holly Thomsen 84 27 290 .197 Bill Gill 1 1 3
Jennifer Garrigus 77 44 255 .129
‘V ' . Rebecca Russell 51 26 171 .146 GOALKEEPING GA SV Pcr
A. Mazzarelli 1 1 36 .766
FOOTBALL Fernando Bravo 4 26 .867
HARRIS TEE-I-ER RUSHIING YDS/GAME
   SETH MCKINLEY i 23.0 WOMEN’S SOCCER
_  SS Matt Mogk 20.8 G A TP
‘ ' ” Aaron Wilkinson 9.5 Erica Reineke 12 6 30
A J .P. Josephson 5.5 Michelle Bauman 7 7 21
‘* 1 5 9 9 Kait Barton ’ 4 6 14
OZ. PAssINo Arr. COMP. YARDS Anne Spruill 5 3 13
3 Brooks Fischer 84 41 281 Jen Lynch 3 2 8
. Tommy Rueger 15 8 60 Leighton Kirby 3 1 7
0 ‘‘ Sara Benson 3 0 6
_ _ RECEIVING R YDS YPR
.‘ ' " , s  _ - William Propst 21 190 9.1 GOALTENDING GA Sv Pcr.
"A(\!13f°.\-~ ~_. ._   .  ‘ . Matt Mogk 7 23 3.3 Beth Mozena 9 32 .780
" PERDUE .6-3"" 13:7 3"";-"~'t:' Jonathan Gardner 6 45 7.5 Delia Coyle 2 17 .895
Hayne Hodges 5 39 7.8 WATER PoLo
“ “ G(2) A T? PPG
A DEFENSE TACK!-ES SACKS Peter Sorenson 13(0) 14 27 2.7
‘ Robert Hull 54 3 James Silberstein 21(0) 5 26 2.6
' 6 Stuart Hogue 49 0 Rich Cober 12(2) 4 20 2.0
Ra R  ’ TfaViS WiSd0m 42 0 Derek DeVries 5(0) 9 14 1.4
,_ ‘ ° ° Marc Newman 38 1 Frank Braden 9(0) 3 12 1.2
. _. 5 W. ____.,.:.J,,,. W. . . . ,1 ._.,...,,.I v .   188011 Chaftfand 35 1 Reuben Munger 7(0) 4 11- 1.1
  4??‘ *=* "  " E“ '   REDUCED PRICES Tony Diederich 6(0) 2 8 0.8

 

     

rz      MEN’s SOCCER Bryan Drum 6(0) 0 6 0.6
S “  "   G A TP GOALTENDING GA Sv Per.
3“! - ‘ Gordan Meeker 3 2 8 David Silvester 121 111 .489
Shag Drewry 4 0 8 Tom Donnelly 4 0 .000
r. J eb Wofford 4 2 10
“- ENEW cnop . .

  
  

*1 ~.'-...~,-‘."

RUSSET

« BAKING n.

. (POTATOES O25

PARENTS’

« msys PEPSI on  
mmur Bll1'l'ER mar PEPSI   RECEPTION

2/  Friday, October 14, 1994
. 6 ggﬁﬁignpk 2 LTR.. .  at 9:00 p.m. in the GHQ
 

  Featuring: “Wﬂdgrass”

rrsorr MEXICAN NISSIN cup   (Bluegrass & F011‘ Mus“)
FAJITA '|'OR'|'ll.I.A$ NOODLES

SELECTED
VARIETIES

     
 

  
 

 

    
  

Cash Bar
«. HARRIS TEETER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT V Cheese
§RiWI?RcYKERs 79 ‘E"Ii"i'i'iii"‘ir"rHIr£ 99 C‘a°k‘’*‘S
‘‘ PRESERVE 6%.‘ DETERGEN 4324.7‘ Veggies and Dip

$

Nachos and Salsa

vﬁ3IER41I}ﬁLERN  8 s£LEcr£o VARIETIES

TISSUE 533%’ 8 §§'E"A 6""?  Mixed Nuts

‘ SELECTED VARIETIES R  ﬁiCﬁEﬁl\g\R+Ei|E§'ER 2/ 0°
 I 23%?‘ ICE CREAM ‘ail?

Prices Effective Througeh Oct. 18, I994

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday October 12 Throuph Octo r 18 199 in Our Mecklenburlggéggns Stores

( Oni)/.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sod To Deaiers. We G adiy Accept Federa amps. ~-:.'. * ’ ' ' Sponsored by Student Activities

 

 

Last Week:

CC- (M)- 1st of four at W&L Invitational
(W)- 1st of two at W&L Invitational
SOCCER (W)- def. Sweet Briar 5-1; def. Guilford 5-1
(M)-def Bridgewater 6-1; def. Dickinson 3-1

Voi.u.-:YnAu.- 4-1 at Goucher Tourn.; def. E&H 3-0
WATER Poi.o- split with Richmond 13-12; 13-16
Foo'mAu.- defeated Davidson 9-3

PAGE 14

Are they
Worth it?

THE LAST Wom)
BY STEPHEN WILUARD

 

 

Will there ever be an
end to the amazing fea-
tures of professional
sports?

In the National Basket-
ball Association draft this
year, the Milwaukee Bucks
naturally tookjuniorGlenn
Robinson from Purdue
University. After all, he
was the most highly re-
garded player in the draft
and in college basketball
in general. ,

Now, after months of
contract squabbles and a
holdout, is it possible that
the lowly Bucks regret
their decision?

Robinson, a prop 48
player at Purdue (which
means he had to sit out a
year after failing to score a
700 on the SAT), comes
out after his junior year of
college and refuses to ac-
cept the offers of the Bucks.

If Milwaukee were of-
fering 4.25 an hour, I could
understandthis,butthelast
contract. the Robinson
ixnayed was a whopping
10-year, $70 million job.

I don’t know, I might
be the only one wondering
this, but WHAT is going
through this guys head
right now? Or an even bet-
ter question might be, is
anything going through
this guy’s head?

Actually, Robinson's
agent has decided that his
new buddy is worth a 13-
year deal that, with guar-
anteed raises every year,
would make Mr. Robinson
the first $100 million dol-
lar man in the NBA.

Mind you, thisniaii has
never played a ‘g'arrie’at the
NBA level and thirteen
years is a LONG time. How
many seasons did Michael
play?

And what about some
other college pheenoms
that wanted big bucks?
What is Ralph Sampson
doing now?

Like I said, maybe I’m
odd, but I just don’t see
how any rookie is worth
more than the team he plays
on. There is an easy way to
solve this problem. Turn
him down.

The Bucks should,
granted, at the loss of a #1
pick, bid Robinson a fond
farewell, hold onto his

W&Ltennis turns season into series of routs  

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

A team on a mission. A cli-
che, but that’s the best way to
describe the 1994-95 W&L
women’s tennis team.

After an early exit at last
spring’s Division III nationals
for the second-seeded team, the
Generals appear more deter-
mined, not to mention just a bit
more talented.

The team returns all but num-
ber-five singles player Kim
Dickinsonand has added four
solid freshmen.

“The team has improved quite
a bit,” said number-one singles
player Marilyn Baker. “We have
two starting freshmen who have
contributed immensely to the
team.”

Baker refers to Natalia Garcia,
21 Dominican native who plays at
number—two, and Erica Shapard
at number-ﬁve. Those two were
among the four W&L players
who made up the entire semiﬁnal
ﬁeld at the Rolex Southeast Re-
gional tournament two weeks
ago.

Baker, a senior, beat Garcia
for a repeat singles title. The pair
then joined to win the doubles

S

@112 iiting-tum iﬂlti

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL

championship, defeating a Mary
Washington team of Beth Todd
and Kirsten Erickson 6-3, 6-2. It
marked the second straight year
W&L swept the two titles.

The victory in the singles ﬁ-
nal gave Baker the W&L career
record for wins with 75. The two-
time All-American now owns a
career mark of 78-11.

Junior Shelley Sunderrnan and
Shapard rounded out the all-Gen-
erals singles ﬁnal four. W&Lalso
claimed three semiﬁnal spots in
doubles competition, with teams
of Julie Ayers-Carrie Lucas and
Shapard-Anna O’Connor mak-
ing the ﬁnal four.

With the singles and doubles
regional titles, Baker and Garcia
earned a trip to the Rolex Na-
tional Small College Champion-
ships in Edmond, Oklahoma later
this month.

As if their dominance at Rolex
was not enough, the Generals
trounced a pair of Division II
squads last weekend. W&L beat
Wingate and Longwood by 8-1
scores.

The lone loss each time was a
forfeit at number-one doubles due
to an injury to Sunderman. The

junior did participate in singles
and picked up a pair of wins as
Washington & Lee did not lose a

  

set in either match.

With all the key returnees,
including Ayers at number-three
singles and Sundennan at four,
and the additions of freshmen
Garcia, Shapard, Lucas, and
Berry Blankinship, the team is
well stacked with talent.

However, last year’s Division
III nationals taught them that tal-
ent is often not enough.

“There’s been a definite
change in attitude,” Baker said.
“We now realize that talent alone
is not enough. It takes a lot of
hard work and determination.”

Another cliche, another truth.

According to Baker, the team
has concentrated very hard on
their doubles play. In singles, she
feels the team matches up with
any in Division III. Their doubles
play, though, has required some
extra work, particularly at the
net.

They will surely be tested next
weekend at the Old Dominion
University Athletic Tournament
in Norfolk. Many Division I
schools are expected to compete,
including Virginia, William &
Mary and Richmond.

“I think we’ll represent our-
selves well,” Baker remarked.
“It will certainly be a challeng-
mg experience.”

This Week: ' ..

CC- State Championships at C. Newport (M&W)
SOCCER (M)- vs. Virginia Wesleyan; at E. Menonite
(W)- vs. Swarthmore; at Lynchburg

Vou.i.-:viuli.L- vs. Hollins

Warm PoLo- EWPA Round Robin

F00’l'BALl.- vs. Hampden Sydney (Parent's Weekend)

October 14, 1994
'1

K

File Photo

Two time All-American Marilyn Baker is once again leading one of W&L’s
proudest.teams this year as the women’s tennis team begins its quest for a
return trip to the NCAA team competition. fl

‘.

 Women’s soccer continues strong

BY JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

Unstoppable may be the only word to
describe the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team and their fab fresh-
man forward Erica Reineke over this
past week’s games.

After rebounding from their disap-
pointing loss to Randolph-Macon with a
5-1 win last Wednesday over Sweet
Briar, the Generals dominated Guilford
Saturday by an identical margin to im-
prove to 4-2 in the ODAC, 6-3 overall.

After having seniors Anne Spruill
and Kait Barton team up to knock out
Sweet Briar, it was the turn of the team’s
freshmen on Saturday.

Reineke insured her place in W&L
sports lore by scoring the first two goals
of the game, her 11th and 12th of the
season, shattering the previous school
record ten goals with four games left in
the regular season to pad her record.

The record was far from Reineke’s
mind, however, as she said, “I wasn’t
even thinking about it. I didn’t even
know about it till after the game, so I
deﬁnitely wasn’t thinking about it at
all.”

When asked about future goals, she
became even more hesistant, saying, “I
don’t know. I didn’t expect to break
either record, so I can’t even think to-

freshman Delia Coyle, who moved from
her midﬁeld spot to goalie for injured
goalie Beth Mozena for the 3rd time this
season.

The status on Mozena has been re-
ported as day -to—day, and Coach Hathom
privately remarked, “It doesn’t look
good.”

But Hathorn remained optimistic
about the rest of the season, saying,
“Delia’s doing a great job. At this point,
she’s gaining more experience, so it’s
possible Beth’s absence won’t hurt us at
all.”

As for the team’s other injury, that of
sophomore striker Michelle Bauman,
nursing an injured ankle after recording
seven goals and seven assists for the
Generals this season, Coach Hathom
offered a positive prognosis, saying,
“She’s healing rapidly. It’s much fur-
theralong than we thought it would be at
this point. We expect her for Saturday
[vs. Swarthmore], but Thursday [vs.
Roanoke] is up in the air.”

Any reﬂection on what has been ac-
complished the last few games has to be
overwhelmingly upbeat.

Co-captain Anne Spruill credited the
team’s cohesion, saying, “I think the
team’s been playing as a team, which is
what makes us play well. We’ve had
games where we haven’t played well in
the ﬁrst half, and we’ve been able to pull

ers for maturity in handling the balance
of athletics and academics, observing, “I
think the thing that’s most positive is that
we’ve been ready to play at our level,
especially with such busy weeks aca-
demically. The reality of W&L academ-
ics and athletics is that they have to be
integrated. When you have students that
want to give all of themselves to both,
you’re going to have problems. I think
they’re handling this in a very respon-
sible and very mature manner. Because
we give so much to the academics, some-
times it is soccer that they come to dead
tired, and we need to ﬁgure out how to
play in spite of that. I like that relation-
ship- it’s not something I wish wasn’t
that way, but it’s a reality of the situation
here.”

Looking ahead, the team faces two
home games this week, against Roanoke
and Swarthmore.

Spruill identiﬁed focus as the key,
remarking, “I think we just need to focus.
We’ve got the skill and we’re in shape-
we just need to focus on what we want to
do.

Coach Hathom agreed, adding, “We
always need to get better, but I think it
[the key] is two things: 1) continuing to
play our style of soccer, even when we’re
ﬁred up and playing a big team, and 2)
when we’re in a big game, knowing how
to win it, how to play enough defense so

Signing Tights. am? 16* hi‘? Aided by the addition of new players, the W&L women’s soccer ward another record to break.” it together as a team” they don’t beat you because you warm»,
W0l’k 8} BUYS“ K138 “W1 team has roared off to a 6-3 (4-2 ODAC) record for the season. Also aiding Saturdays effort was coach Hathom 3150 credited herplay- taking care of business.”

he decides that maybe the

$70 mil wasn’t to bad after ‘
all.

I know that another d J b k

,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,.,,,,,,,, IOI'y an ason are 3C

up if the Bucks did that,

but. f0l' Once, I W0“ld like By TORY No-yo AND J Ason “Duke” Brown’s masterful ex- eyes on these AFC upstarts.

*0 55° Wei)’ °W“°" s““b ecution of a two-minute drill THEJETSWONAGAME!!! «‘

this guy, and every other
holdout for that matter.

These people have the
bare minimum of skills
necessary to compete in
the workplace.

For example, Robinson
couldn’t even get a 700 on
his SAT. You get some-
thing like 200 points on
that test just for signing
your name! You tell me
where this guy is going to
end up working without
basketball.

The idea of a rookie
having a deal out for more
than the team is worth
seems absurd at best. There
have always been bright
starscomingintctheNBA,
but in the past few years,
the money that has been
laid on the table for some
of the best and the bright-
est has skyrocketed.

All over the league,
rookie contracts are going
through the roof. Every
year, now, the first ques-
tion asked during the draft
isn’t how will so-and-so
gel with our guys, but will
he sign with us, and how
much will we have to shell
out to have a chance.

There is no reason why
a 21 year old should be
bossing around the entire
league. After all, basket-
ball is all that separates
people like Glenn
Robinson from, “Can I take
your order, please?”

TEi—:rERs
Phi Staff Writers

For another week, we remain
perturbed by the non—existent 95 —
96 National Hockey League sea-
son.

The authors are especially dis-
appointed because the worst team
in hockey (the Rangers) have
been decimated by injuries and
the longer the strike wears on,
the more Broadway Blues will
return to the ice.

Yet we still anxiously await
the return of the Devils and Fly-
ers.
This weekend included an in-
tense NFC matchup of the Phila-
delphia Eagles and Washington
Redskins. Despite the poor record
Washington brought into the
game, they gave the Super Bowl
contending Mean Green a battle,
falling short 21-17.

The inconsistent and inexpe-
rienced Heath Shuler threw two
touchdown passes, but failed to
complete many passes. On the
other hand, Randall “Scramble”
Cunningham lived up to his name
by performing a ﬂip into the end
zone to record 6 points.

The Eagles now face their
arch-rivals, the Dallas Cowboys.
The underdog Cowboys must
subdue the NFC’s highest rated
offensive attack to stay in the
game.

I (Tory) will be the first to
admit that the Giants played a
wretched game of football. The
Big Blue looked good in the ﬁrst
half, especially due to Dave

which resulted in a TD.

Unfortunately the second half
was abysmal. Brown burst the
Giants’ bubble by throwing an
INT that was returned for a TD
(just like last week against the
Aints).

From then on, the game was
not worth watching. (By the way
the NJ Giants lost to the Vikes)
On good note, Giants return man
Lewis was a shining star.

Also the half time ceremony
which honored the greatest de-
fensive player ever, Lawrence
“LT” Taylor, will never be for-
gotten. His speech, although
short, touched the hearts of not
only Giants fans, but all football
fans. (This is only the eighth num-
ber to be retired in the Giants 70
year history). ‘

In a bitter AFC East match-
up, the inferior Miami Fins were
harpooned by the Northern stam-
pede of the Bills.

Thurman Thomas’ return
from injury showed that he had
not lost a step, as he trampled
over the hapless Fish.

The Dallas (bandwagon team)
Cowboys were victorious in-
theirshowdownwith Buddy Ball.
The Arizona quarterbacks threw
ﬁve interceptions, proving that
Buddy Ryan’s emphasis on de-
fense is costly to the over-all
TEAM concept.

The San Diego Chargers con-
tinue to impress as they electro-
cuted the Kansas City Chiefs, led
by Joe Montana ( a QB no longer
in his prime). We’ll keep our

THIS IS NO HV!!! Although
Jack Trudeau once again showed
his incompetence by playing at
the top of his game, Boomer
“Lame Duck” Esiason managed
to coral the India-no place Colts.

The Falcs and the Niners both
won, setting up a key NFC West
matchup on Sunday. The play-
ers to watch will be Deion Sand-
ers and Andre Rison.

The winner of this game stands
the best chance to challenge the
NFC East powerhouse for the
right to go to Miami in January.

On the college side, Notre
Dame faltered again. Unfortu-
nately this loss to the upstart
Boston College Eagles will put
them out of National Title con-
tention.

Two such contenders include
the Penn State Nittany Lions and
the Michigan Wolverines, who
meet in Ann Arbor this Saturday.
The winner will be the team most
likely to take the now defunct
Wisconsin Badgers’ Rose Bowl
crown.

The Hurricanes of Miami
stormed over the Seminoles of
FSU, in the battle of the Sun-
shine State.

Last night was the home
opener for the Roanoke Express.
We hope all of W&L’s hockey
faithful have ordered tickets in
advance for this promising sea-
son of southwestern Virginia
hockey.

Our magic eight ball says, “It
is certain” that the Express will
have a great season. Slates.

Athletes of the Week _

 

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

 

This past weekend was a
banner one for Washington
and Lee athletics and this
week’s athletes of the week
come from two of the most
successful squads.

Delia Coyle continues the
amazing performance of this
year’s freshman class in ath-
letics.

Thewomen’ssoccerplayer
moved from midfield to
keeper and has been solid for

role in that win with two in-
terceptions, a pass break-up,
and nine tackles on the day.
Hogue’s first interception
stiﬂed a Davidson scoring ;
threat as he picked off the '
pass in the end zone and he
capped the game off by pick-
ing off the Davidson QB in
the ﬁnal minutes to ensure
victory for the Generals. ’
The ﬁnal INT came on the
W&L 27 yard line as
The team picked up their first Davidson was once again
win of the season against threatening late in the con-
Davidson on Saturday, and jun- test.
ior Stuart Hogue played a pivotal Congratulations to both.

the Generals as they won two
consecutive 5-1 decisions this
past week.

During those two games,
Coyle allowed only two goals
against 11 saves while upping
her save percentage to 0.895.
Opponents are averaging 0.7
goals per game against Coyle
this year.

This week’s other honoree
comes from the much maligned
W&L football team.

 

