If

‘I

 

  

Meet new basketball

coach
See page IO

([0

6

\*»\a'C .v. ..¥.‘1"$3i.‘V‘il‘l l- hihl M‘ ix‘,

9 gig...‘  ﬂ L)“ \,ﬁI'\.¢’mlT‘;’
,"ﬂ“?:"l."._‘l’rl, V9‘ 

/at 241995

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

APRIL 21, 1995

Faculty raises standards
for honor roll, Dean’s list

more people causing the lists to lose
their usefulness, said Sessions.

We’ve raised honor requirements
before. A few years back, the stan-
dards for graduating summa, magna,
and cum laude were raised,”
said Sessions.

Sessions believes some students will
be perturbed by the change. He said
they might see this as a move by the
faculty to take something away from
them. However, Sessions believes they
will not be right in thinking that. Hodges
believes students will understand the
need for the changes.

At Sessions’ request, University
Registrar Scott Dittman said he will
include explanations of the changes on
the back of official transcripts begin-
ning this summer. Sessions hopes to
ward off cosmetic problems for stu-
dents who had once been on the honor
lists and after the changes were not.

While the W&L faculty seems to be
in overwhelming support of the new
requirements, students have already
voiced opposition. Both student mem-
bers of the University’s Courses and

“I believe the students are going to
ﬂip,” said Sophomore Paul Saboe, one
member of the Courses and Degrees
Committee, “Raising the Honor Roll
requirements would put it beyond the
reach of most students.”

Saboe also believes students would
cease to strive to make the Honor Roll
because the standards are too rigorous.

“It used to be obtainable — some-
thing to shoot for — now it’s too de-
manding,” said Saboe.

Senior Brad Meier, also a member
of the Courses and Degrees Commit-
tee, agreed.

“I’ve been here four years and it’s
going to be hard to see my friends who
can’t meet the stricter standards let
down,” said Meier, “How can you ex-
plain to your parents why you don’t
make Dean’s List anymore?”

Before the current resolution was
passed, Saboe and Meier presented an
original plan which was defeated. it
called for raising the Dean’s List re-
quirement to 3.25 and leaving the Honor
Roll requirement at 3.5.

“The faculty simply did not take the

Degrees Committee opposed

student’s opinion into consideration,”
that resolution.

said Meier said.

a matter of debate

to decide these issues, says Howison; the only area in which students have
complete autonomy is the operation of the Honor system.“There is a tendency for
students to take autonomy and apply it to other organizations,” he said.

Senior Kelly Brotzman said students often fail to distinguish between au-
tonomy and self-govemance. Autonomy means that students make decisions
involving the university without any accountability to the faculty or administra-
tion. Self-govemance, on the other hand, means that the Board of Trustees
students power over certain areas, Brotzman said.

Howison cites the Student Activities Board, Student Conduct Committee,
Mock Convention and Fancy Dress as pockets of student autonomy in other
areas. The problem comes when something such as housing becomes an institu-
tional issue. Under the W&L by-laws, the faculty or the Board of Trustees must
intervene. He used coeducation as an example. When the faculty and the students
were butting heads over whether to allow women to attend W&L, and alumni
were threatening to stop contributing money to the school, students and alumni
argued that coeducation would destroy the school’s tradition, but the faculty and
the Board of Trustees voted for coeducation because they believed it would
beneﬁt the school, Howison said.

Waddy believes most students are aware of the faculty ’s and the administration ’s
authority to decide such matters. However, Waddy believes many students think
the administration is abusing its power and not paying any attention to their
opinions, “They have the legal authority, but they should think about what the
consequences will be in terms of student opinion.”

Brotzman said students should be consulted when the faculty or the Board of

See AUTONOMY, page 8

 

Gay Republican

0 0 1
act1v1 st counse s
. 25
g.i93 d ' ° t
 1Vers1 y
3.145
3.138
3_ 13 3 By ALEX CHRISTENSEN
3. 1 15 Phi Editorial Page Editor
3.106 .
The Washin ton and Lee Committee on Gay and Les-
3-040 - g ‘ii dL T fel
bian Legal Issues presented a speech by Ric ar . 3 ,
3 '034 executive director of the Log Cabin Republicans, at the Law
3-"23 s hool on Tues. April 18.
2.999 C His topic was“We’re here, we’re queer, and
2.983 we’re Republican?” _
2 971 Conservative in his political outlook, Tafel earned a
2. 93 4 Masterof Divinity degree and was ordained by the Northern
' Baptists. He says his religious training still comes in handy
2'924 when debating members of the religious right, who often
2'91; claim that the Bible condemns homosexuality
2 -90 or homosexuals. _
2.904 There are only three openly gay congressmen in the
2.888 House of Representatives now: Barney Frank and Gerry
2 3 7 3 Studds, both Massachusetts Democrats, and Steve Gunderson
. of Wisconsin, aclose political ally of Speaker Newt Gingrich.
2'850 Tafel worked as the campaign manager for Republican
2 '848 Michael Duffy Massachusetts’s first openly gay candidate
2-770 for the state assembly. Duffy did not win, but garnered 44
2.562 percent of the vote in a district where Democrats outnum-
2 604 bered Republicans eight to one. The race is now taught as a
. case study at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at

Harvard University. ‘ _ _
The thrust of Tafel’s message is of inclusion, education

and political activism by gays and lesbians, not just in the

Democratic party. _ _
During the Massachusetts gubernatorial race, Tafel said,

to making people

M u SI c , Food ,
« l 2 /
, L . . 0 ~ 
is :3 is L. .
i  -:. 
VOLUME 95.’N0.)9’ WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
‘‘There’s not much honor in being in
BY DA" ODENWN-D the top 53 percent. We ought to make
Phi Executive Editor it a real honor,” Hodges said.
_ r _ Hodges ﬁrst became interested in
Washington and i«eeUnIVers1ty Im- the issue at a December 1994 faculty
del3T3d“3te5_3l’e 8°lh8 ‘°_ h3Ve '0 eel“ meeting in which Sessions delivered a
heheT8{3de51hihe“P°°lhlh8 F3llTe1'm report on the Dean’s List and Honor
10 3ehleVe the Same h°h°l'5 they Roll. He distributed an e-mail letter to
d0 ll°W- _ _ the faculty proposing changes in the
The faellhl’ P355e‘l3l'e5°l“h°hT3l5' cun'ent standards. Of 31 responses,
ing thﬁ standards  thC Dean’s List only two werg ncgative_
and HonorRollattheirApnl3rdmeet- The faculty eievated the require-
lh8- lhsiead °f ‘he 3-0 ‘flllllehily Te‘ merits so as to only include about 21
‘llflled f°l’ the De?h’S _l-155 Shldehis percent of the student body. Under the
will need a 3.4. Likewise, instead of new standards and current grade distri-
‘he3-5 elmehtll’ Teqhhed f°"he H°h°T bution Sessions estimates 10 percent
Roll. Students Will need 3 3-75- The of all undergraduates will make Honor
new standards go into effect next R011 and 11 percent win make
Fall 'l:e1'hl- Dean’s List.
“Flﬂfihlee Peleem Of all Shhlehis Hodges explained that if over half
made the Dean’s List last Fall Term. lt of the students were making Dean's
shouldbeaspecial honor. It shouldbe List it wetiid become a
selective. This is an honor roll after rneaningiees distinction,
all,” said Associate Dean of the Col- “we must protect the students who
lege W- Lad Se55l°h5- _ _ . really do achieve something,
The proposal was initiated by "Hedges said,
Fletcher Ofey Th°m35 PT°fe55°T 0f Sessions was also concerned with
l31ble LOUIS W- Hodges becahse Of what he termed ‘grade inﬂation.’
concern over ‘half of the students mak- with the rise of the average grade
"18 Dean's Llsh point average, the honor rolls include
 Student autonomy
On your mark, get set, go!
By MICHAEL HEWIEIT
Chairman of Empower America Jack Kemp will.speak in Phi Associate Editor
Lee Chapel on Tuesday headlining the Spring Kick-off of
the 1993 Republican M001‘ C°nVent‘°n' Listening to Washington.and_lJ;e University students talk about Winter Rush,
" o 3 you might think that the school has a long tradition of student autonomy. In
k k_ 0  contrast, University historian Professor Taylor Sanders explains that until 1865,
e | I h p O  students had no autonomy or self-govemment at all. Previous to1865, students
couldn’t play sports, leave campus, or party. They had Saturday classes. Lee
changed that when he became president and gave students more social freedom,
l I H 1 Sanders said.

MO  (  e   Administrators, including Dean of Students David Howison, maintain that
students don’t understand the autonomy issue and the university by-laws that
give faculty the authority to decide on such issues as Winter Rush.

Kemp Served as 3 New Yqrk Ewe" Students, including junior Nick Waddy, believe the administration wants to
By SH.El§U fl:§vN1.)tERSoN Semative in Qongsress for n'1_.nex_¥:;’3: strip away the traditions that have made W&L great. _ _ .
Pl" ta " °r hef°le b°°°"““g ecre aw 0 d “It’s clear [administrators] want to change the character of the university in a
. mg and Urban Development un er speciﬁc way’, Waddy said.

Alihough -leek Kelhi’ ls h°‘ "lei" Presldem Bush‘ d t the In recent months, student autonomy has becomeamajor issue on campus. The
lhgwashlhgmh and Lee“) glVeP°1h" Kemp was expeme “I: en  Board of Trustees passed a sophomore housing requirement in which students
as to the Generals’ football team, he 1996, la?‘ and Seek the eflflu dig" will have to live in university housing for their first two years.

Will be ltleklhg Off the 1996 Mock nommanonx Howelfer’ 1:: reb Se t ;. Last month, the faculty gave a non-binding vote in support of Winter Rush,

Convention providing lnslghi lhlo the cause he belwved lﬂmse to. etoléalfn despite the fact that most fratemities and the lnterfraternity Council support Fall

“P°°mlhg Pfesldemlal e3lhP3l8h-_ t°“°h . Wm‘ t C mams I Rush. While most professors and deans believe they have the school’s best

“KemP l5 ‘me Of the most Pl°m_l5' Repubhcan Pally’ be cﬁvist for interest in mind, many students think that the administration are not listening to
ing conservative Republicans with KemP Temalhsg h if“ “an of Em_ their opinions,
all lhlP1'e55lVe 1'e5“m°»” Sald M°°k the Repubhcfna C am". h.nk_ The university by~laws give the faculty and the administration the authority
Con Media Chairman Jeff Zeiger, p0W°1' Amen“: 3 °°hs‘?’_‘’‘}"‘'° ‘,1
“He started and shaped a lot of Re- tank, Ke_mp regularly criticizes widely
publican policy inﬂuencing President held beliefs Ofihe Ugh‘ ‘"1"? ,

Reaganas Supp1y-S;de eeenemic Student reactionto Kemp scoming

policy in the 1980-S-” ‘° °‘““l’“s “as ‘’““‘’‘l' Winter Term Grades

Kemp will begin w&L’s 2131 Some students were angered at the
Mock Convention wéth a speech on fee Which man)’ 90"" P‘ B t PM
the Re ublican agen a. ' . e a

Zeiger is excited about Kemp beg act$1(l:§IIS(£0n(:gS6d on the dynamicchar- sigma PM Epsilon
cause of his national prominence an “ - , _ _ _Fratemtt women
believesotherimportantspeakerswill ‘Although l _m hfoi Sthfjilty :‘;‘:i‘: gal: omega y
follow Kemp’s lead and come vative,l m loolr_ifiti_g orwar 0 We 0% H W
to campng _ Kemp offer a di erent  h A omen

“The possibilities arestaggering,” the 96 C¢§n1palgn_1SSUCS. S31 _ P °' All Fraternity Women
Zeiger said. “'0” P°_l‘“°S ma-l°l Amy F°m'c°la' Kappa Kappa Gamma
Senate Majority Leader Robert _ PYCVIOUS M0Cl< C03 §Pe3l‘eIl'5 llgge Lambda Chi Alpha

 of  W are" "°“i§ ;‘:.i:"‘;::*.;:‘:.*‘.::::;: .::a..::. .2 K...» At... 

xix:2ilsnlli%ue‘li:alilr%n:itliai)fEl:anll)1a:l?)lilal South Dakota. JackIs(o_nkspptl<e at trlliﬁ Pl li{;PiPl| Alllhl‘

Commission on Economic Growth 1937 5Pl_“_l8  f0 ah 1291 Ch s y

and Tax Reform. McGovem visited W 0” e All Students

“Jack is one of ourcountry’s most Spring K1°l‘°ff' , . k ff Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Passionate whicesdon behtziﬂfjof Eco- lnCll)1t(l1ee;le{::)?ltl:ll£(2)!lll l1S9Sl9l:SsfOI:ll.l‘l:Il(;n PM Kappa Psi

nomic growt an expan e oppor- _ , a A] hn

tunity for all Americans,” said Dole, Wednesday,/’*P“l 26 1“ L;°,Ehap:l'   Ea m 1: a Delta

“He has been one our party’s cookout will folloulégn) 1'1 3%, lithe H F t nu Men

most innovative thinkers on 28 from 5:30 to . P-m- 10 A ra er y

economic policy.” BDG Q“_ad- w.". F All Me“

The Commission will attempt to Politics Profeglsor _ icgam SS: Sigma Nu

create a ﬂatter and fairertax system. C0nnelly.lf-tvléfst dllr§tmm’77ll:)gr:lhd Kappa slgma

They will look at replacing the cfi1ir- Eilnutlitfclﬁanlggllshg V3 L‘;n(ceTarvmnce PM Delta Theta

re:“ProgreSstl;,,ftaxSy'Stemwitha at (’6g) are scheduled to serve on the Non-Fraternity Men

ra e income . .

CNN and C-SPAN haveexpressed panel for thqlissuels( forqm. d A m Sigma Chi M
interestincoveringthe Kempspeech. Kempwi speaﬁont |lf8Ee3)iCahaP 1 Pi Kappa P
«Spring Kickoff Wm sort of be a 25 at 11.45 am. in on o‘ e p: Beta Theta pt
.mini_c0nvemion: and should be for approximately.45 minutes to e Phi Kappa sigma
ood press for March 1 and 2, 1996,” f°ll°We‘l by _330'lhlh“‘e ‘l“e5".°“‘a“d' .
Enid Zeigen f answer seéleont C ' 1   
  . . - ' to sition, Connell ints
97: will serve as the new. ‘mmohjusnces’ and Ray van ethiileiiglheltsiihgferly  the faculty. ypo
By At:NE [:2/ORD Metre’ ,9? as' the nefvd Setn!ortJt::ma‘beility of the new IFC Winter rush Connelly believes, “is a difficult subject,
Phi CW5 "or Come y ls con l en m « ‘ ' , lot of ople to deal with a lot of changes.
officers to meet the challenges that face them. We have and will require a p _ pe f _t d not
_ _ ., - u have a ran We all have tobewilling to.make the best out o i an
in elections last month, the Interfratemity Council really lgoodkgtoig: ngtziyiiuslrpla :?Ilci1i’mWc(8)nﬁden‘ “pa Cay. complain. Fm committed
elected its new ofﬁcers. ’ dlffziclu ittasugvtvlie u of ys’we have_» understand that,” _ _
The “W Plesldem will. be Ryan C°""‘?“y’ 96.’ and hancoe hen” sees tﬁleolal-)gestgtl:lhallenge to the IFC right now Until the ﬁnal vote is taken on Winter,Rush, the lFC'l ,

Adam Blmemfonh’ ,96-' Wm be the new Vice President. t betlle yssibility of Winter Rush, and the task of design- occupied finalizing Plans for next year s rush and F .11
',l9u2‘i.I;.rE;l:;?,l’A,:?no:;,l ',,,,b:zzS,f,'i,’i"t”5'§y-, a:r(tldb'14:r? $3123: ihg it, if tll:l’swhat the faculty decides when they voteonthe. pledgeship, which have been decided upon.

the gay community was in a bind as to which candidate to
support: John Silber, Democrat and president of Boston
University, who had made disparaging remarks about gays
and lesbians as well as women, or William Weld, a former
U.S. attorney and Reagan Justice Department official, who

See TAFEL, page 8

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Ukraine demands new power plant

On Monday, ofﬁcials in Kiev, Ukraine changed their position on the status
of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Last week, President Leonid Kuchma
told members of the European Union and the G-7 group of industrialized
nations that the plant would shut down its two remaining reactors by 2000.
He now has threatened to keep the aging plant, which supplies about 7% of
Ukraine’s energy, open unless Western countries agree to build a replace-
them plant.

Ando wins prize for architecture

On Sunday, an international panel of judges announced that Tadao Ando,
53, of Osaka Japan is the recipient of the 1995 Pritzker Architecture Prize.
Ando’s most recent distinction is that approximately 30 of the buildings
which he designed that were built in the Kobe, Japan area were not severely
damaged by the January 17th earthquake. Ando is a self-taught architect who
rattributes his skill to reading and studying trips to the United States and
Europe.

Ciller campaigns for support

Turkish prime minister, Tansu Ciller, began campaigning on Monday for
American support for the Turkish army ’s incursion into northern Iraq. 35,000
Turkish troops were sent into the U.S. patrolled zone to attack camps used by
Kurdish rebels.

Guatemalan plot targets Harbury

U.S. ofﬁcials received information on Monday about a possible threat
ragainst Jennifer Harbury. Harbury has been searching for information about
the 1992 disappearance of her husband, Guatemalan guerrilla leader Efrain
Bamaca Velasquez. The FBI claims that members of the Guatemalan military
may be plotting to assassinate Harbury. Guatemalan authorities have prom-
ised to punish those involved with the threat.

The Nation“

 

Explosion in Oklahoma City

Just after 9 a.m. on Wednesday, a nine-story Federal building in Okla-
homa City was destroyed by a car bomb containing about 1000 pounds of
explosives. The building housed the local branch ofﬁces of the Departments
of Agriculture, Defense, Health and Human Services, Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and others. The building also housed a day care center on the
econd ﬂoor. FBI agents are searching for two white males who drove away
mm the scene in a brown pick-up truck prior to the explosion. There has been
peculation about an Islamic group being responsible for the blast. The
explosion damaged buildings in the surrounding area and was felt up to nine
miles away. At press time, people were reported to still be trapped inside the
tructure, and there were many oonﬂicting reports about the number of
casualties.

IRS sued

On Monday, the American Center for Law and Justice, a group founded
by W&L alumnus Pat Robertson, sued the [RS on behalf of the Church at
Pierce Creek in Vestal, New York. The church lost its tax-exempt status for
radvertising against President Clinton in the October 30, 1992 editions of The
Washington Times and USA Today. Plaintiffs claim that the IRS has unjustly
revoked the church’s status because of its political activities. The church said
Clinton supported abortion, homosexuality and condom distribution in
public schools.

The State

Suspect asks forjury trial

Virginia Beach Circuit Judge Edward Hanson said on Monday during a
hearing for Michael Claggett that potential jurors may be questioned in an
tttempt to select a local panel for Claggett’s June trial. Claggett’s attorneys

re requesting that unbiased outside jurors be brought in because of the
publicity surrounding the trial. Claggett is accused of killing four people in
the Witchduck Inn last June.

Nissen settles out of court

Reverend Carl Nissen settled a sexual abuse lawsuit ﬁled against him by
Merry Joy Cool. Cool claims that Nissen assaulted her while counseling her
for sexual problems from February 1991 through November 1993. Nissen
Fettled the $6 million case for $18, 000. He maintains his innocence.

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1995

 

Holy Smoke!

w

cur ‘qr ~ at -'= W

Photo by Laura Purcell, Special to the Phi

 

Fire caused nearly $40,000 worth of damage to Saint Patrick’s Church on April 8.

Lexington church destroyed by fire

By KATHY MAYURNIK
Phi Staff Writer

Fire broke out at St. Patrick ’s Church
on Saturday, April 8, resulting in seri-
ous damages but no casualties
or injuries.

The church, located on Nelson
Street, suffered total damages estimated
around $40,000. Damage costs will be
covered by diocese insurance, ex-
plained Reverend Jay Biber.

The ﬁre broke out in the sacristy, a

room containing sacred vessels and
vestments. The list of destroyed items
includes altar boy vestments, candles,
sheet music, and flower pots. Except
for the palm branches, which remained
out of reach of the ﬁre, the ﬁre de-
stroyed “basically the items that are
needed to conduct a mass,” said Biber.

The cause of the ﬁre, meanwhile,
remains unknown by either state ofﬁ—
cials orthe local ﬁre department. “State
and local ofﬁcials conducted a full
investigation, and were supposed to
have reported a cause by this week,”
noted Biber, but no cause has

been released.

Along with the unknown cause,
there is also the unknown caller who
reported the ﬁre, to whom Biber is
“etemally grateful.” Biber thanked to
the caller (and to the Lexington Fire
Department) for saving the church from
serious damage in his Palm
Sunday sermon.

The firefighting operation itself
“went rathersmoothly,” Lexington Fire
Chief Kenneth Hall said. Entering
from the sanctuary instead of the rear,
the 15 Buena Vista and the 19 Lexing-
ton ﬁre ﬁghters drove the ﬁre out of the

building. They had the ﬁre under con-
trol within 15 minutes.

Due to the smoke damage, Palm
Sunday services were held in the
Lenfest Center. The overall damage
was not severe enough to keep the
parishioners from their place of wor-
ship forvery long, though, and services
at St. Patrick’scommenced the evening
of Palm Sunday.

Sunday night’s services were a bit
chilly, however, since four stained glass
windows had also been destroyed.
Plexiglass has been substituted until
the stained glass can be installed.

Self-defense
offered for
P.E. credit

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi News Editor

Every semester this year, the hands and feet of
more W&L women are becoming trained for effec-
tive self-defense— whether on campus or off.

Spring Term 1995 marks the third term a self-
defense course appears on some women ’s schedules.

Such as class comes to the W&L campus through
the cooperation of Women’s Forum, the Physical
Education Department, and W&L Security Director
Mike Young.

Shannon Stiltner, who teaches the class together
with fellow Security Ofﬁcer Melvin Davis, explains
that the course’s aim is to prepare women for self-
defense against rape offenders, should such an occa-
sion arise.

Girls leam the basic stance, and from there a
number of self-defense moves including how effec-
tively to kick, punch, and escape from choke holds.

“You don’t have to know anything,” Stiltner
stresses, in order to enroll in the class. “We take some
of the shyest people, and when the class is over, they
leave feeling much more conﬁdent in themselves.”

While the objective of the course is to teach
women defensive moves to practice against potential
rape offenders, such aggression is offered only as an
option.

“The class teaches how to ﬁght, but the choice
itself is left to the young lady,” Stiltner comments.
But if a graduate chooses to ﬁght, this class ensures
she will “know how to do so 100% right.”

The course has met with much enthusiasm. En-
rollment is limited to twelve women per section, and
Stiltner mentions a two page waiting list. In Fall
1995, the class will expand to two sections.

Bjornen duPont, one of 11 to complete the Winter
Term class, sums up its appeal: ‘‘I left feeling like I
could defend myse1f...plus it was a lot of fun!”

The course’s ﬁnal, far from involving blue books
or ink, casts Officer Davis as an offender whom the
girls must individually ﬁght off.

For this exercise, the students don helmet and
gloves, and leave the course with a certain conﬁ-
dence at their newfound ability to defend themselves.
Davis, meanwhile, dresses in a protective suit (with,
according to Stiltner, a few unfortunate gaps) and
risks leaving the exam not without a few black and
blue marks.

Overall, the self defense class is a helpful experi-
ence both for student and teacher. “Not only do the
girls leave having learned something,” Stiltner adds,
“but we do too.”

The Ring-tum Phi The Ring-tum Phi The Ring-tum Phi The Rurg-rum

PhiThe Ring-lulu Phi The Ring-tum Phi The Ring-mm Phi The Ring-mm
PhiThe Ring-Ium Phi The Ring-rum Phi The Ring-mm Phi The Ring-mm
PhiT'he Ring-mm Phi The Ring-rum Phi The Ringdum Phi The Ring-rum
PlIiThe Ring-Ium Phi The Ring-tum PhiThe Ring-mm Phi The Ring-mm
Phi The Ring-Iunr Phi The Ring-tum PhiThe Riugdum Phi The Ring-mm
Phi The Riug~tum Phi The Ring-[um PhiThe Ring-mm Phi The Ring-mm
Phi The Ring-tum Phi The Ring-rum PhiThe Ring-mm Phi The Ringdwn

AUTONOMY from page 1

Trustees making a decision on big issues. She said the
administration failed to do that on the sophomore
housing requirement. The Board of Trustees didn’t
know what students thought of the requirement when
they voted on it, she said. '

Howison said he had three open forums to get
student opinion about the sophomore housing re-
quirement. He noted student opposition to the re-
quirement, but he said the plan would beneﬁt the
school. When it becomes a question of what is in the
best interests of the school, the administration and the
faculty must step in and do what they think is right, he
said.

Brotzman said the faculty and the Student Affairs
Committee are doing a much better job of getting
student opinions on Winter Rush. Still, students be-
lieve they’re powerless even when the administration
listens to their opinions,according to junior Lakeisha
Townes. She said in the sophomore housing require-
ment , students expressed their opposition, but the
Board of Trustees passed it anyway. Many students
believe their opinions don’t matter, she said.

“In general, we pride ourselves on student au-
tonomy at W&L, but it seems like when big decisions
[Winter Rush] come to the forefront, the power leaves
the students’ hands.”

English professor Edwin Craun remembers when
he was the newspaper editor at his alma mater, Wheaton
College in Illinois. He had a faculty advisor who
censored his editorials and columns. A faculty mem-
ber moved to deny Craun his degree because of his
editorials. The administration would never try that
with any of the school publications on this campus, he
said.“What always strikes me about the relationship
between the faculty, the administration and the stu-
dents is that student organizations have so much more
freedom from faculty supervision than anywhere else,”
Craun said.Because of the high level of student au-
tonomy on campus, students are shocked when the
faculty or the Board of Trustees exert their authority,
he said.

Brotzman agreed. Students become aware of the
distinctions between autonomy and self—govemance
when explosive issues such as Winter Rush pit the
students against the faculty, she said.

The debate about student autonomy is nothing
new. In 1915, the staff of the Calyx dedicated the
entire yearbook to criticizing the perceived tyranny of
the administration, said Sanders. The introduction
began this way: “Yes! the Good Old Days have passed
into oblivion and only the Odds and Ends are left,
pitiful reminders of a former glory.” He said the
yearbook included a poem called The Good Old Days,
which accused the faculty of threatening to abolish
“The Swing.”

Students, faculty and the administration were sup-
posed to share the responsibilities of governing the
school, Sanders said. Until the 1930’s, students served
on faculty committees. W&L’s strength lies in the
faculty and the students working together on these
issues, he said.

“It’s not an Us vs. Them issue,” he said. “None of
us are independent of each other.”

Religion professor Harlan Beckley agreed. He
said issues such as Winter Rush affect the entire W&L

community.“Whether there is Winter rush or not
affects more than just the fraternities.” He believed
that when issues such as these come along, students
should not be the only ones who decide on it. That
does not mean that students cannot offer their opin-
ions or that the faculty should dictate the fraternity
life, but it does mean that students aren’t the only
ones making decisions that affect the entire school,
he said.

The majority of the students opposed both the
sophomore housing requirement and Winter Rush,
said Waddy. He said the administration believes
they know better than the students.

“The Board of Trustees has the power to make
these decisions, but they should be held accountable
for the decisions they make.”

Sophomore Robert Taylor disagreed.

“You can’t just say we’re losing our autonomy,”
he said. “Each step that the faculty is taking should
be viewed individually and not taken as a whole.”

He agreed that in some instances, the students’
power has been overridden, but only for the beneﬁt
of the university. He said students still have plenty
of power. But in extreme cases when the school is
being hurt ﬁnancially, the administration has a re-
sponsibility to intervene and rectify the situation.

Executive Committee President Kevin Webb said
he understands the students’ concerns about au-
tonomy. During an open forum on the Honor System
at the Law School, two law professors stood up and
said that if students didn’t make changes in the
system, they would not support it. Webb said al-
though he doesn’t believe the professors’ statements
reﬂected the feelings of most faculty, he thinks they
should not make such comments about a student-run
system.

But he said the issue isn’t really about student
autonomy. Many students fear the administration is
trying to take away those things that make W&l.
unique, such as student freedom to make decisions,
and are more concerned with W&L making the list
for top American liberal arts schools in U.S. News
and World Report, Webb said. He thinks the contro-
versy over student autonomy is really a difference in
opinions about what direction the university is tak-
ing. The faculty believe they’re trying to improve
the school while some students believe the school is
fine the way it is, he said. Webb said students made
the same arguments in 1985 when coeducation was
the issue.

Howison said he doubts students knowing more
about the university by-laws would quiet the debate.
While a greater awareness is good, it is not going to
change students’ minds about Winter Rush or the
sophomore housing requirement, he said.

Webb agreed. The faculty and administration
have always had the power to decide these issues, he
said. The difference, according to Webb, is that
Winter Rush represents a major change in how the
fraternity system works, and the faculty and the
fraternities are split on the issue.

He said issues such as Winter Rush get students
upset because the faculty’s authority stands out
more.“Whenthe bi ggerissues come out, that’s when
you have cries of student autonomy.”

Law professor edits book of essays

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Bethany Bauman

From Phi staff reports

Andrew W. Thenia, Jr., profes-
sor of law at Washington and Lee, is
the editor of a collection of essays in
William Stringfellow, who was an
activist lawyer and widely read lay
theologian for 30 years. The collec-

tion is titled Radical Christian and Ex-
emplary Lawyer: Honoring William
Stringfellow. The collection captures
Stringfellow’s compelling legacy.
Some ofthe essays deal with recurring
themes in Stringfellow’s theology, in-
cluding the powers and principalities
and the apocalyptic; other pieces re-

count the experiences of colleagues
and friends. Still others in this eclectic
collection focus on the law and the
legal profession. The collection in-
cludes contributions from well-known
lawyers, theologians, and social activ-
ists, and it is a testimony to the impor-
tance of Stringfellow’s’ continued in-

fluence across a wide spectrum.

Thenia received his BA in geology
from W&L, and a master’s in the same
from Columbia. He received his law de-
gree from W&L in 1962, and then prac-
ticed law with the ﬁrm ofBoothe, Dudley,
Koontz, & Blankenship in Alexandria
before joining the W&L faculty in 1967,

v.-—.-.~.>.v-

 

X

 

 

‘t The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1995

CAPNIVAL GIVES ALL

jcHANcE To

By COURTNEY E. MILLER
Phi Features Editor

Free is a very good price. Especially when it

1' includes such amenities as snowcones, cotton candy,

I

X

 

¥

 

and soda. The Campus Carnival takes place this
evening from 4 to 8 p.m. at the W&L law school
ﬁeld. Besides free food, there well be additional free
activities for the students to participate in.

“I love the free snowcones, especially grape then
again with the rainbow snowcone you get a chance to
taste all the ﬂavors,” said freshman Erica Pelletier.

Many students are eagerly awaiting a chance to
participate in the carnival. Offering such activities as
the Moonwalk, Velcro Flytrap, and Sumo Wrestling
has peaked the student’s interest.

Cumutte and
Maher return

By MICHAEL HEWLE'I'I‘
Phi Associate Editor

Cumutte and Maher will play again at the Pit on
Tuesday at 9:00.

Their ﬁrst album was Think Again. Their most
recent album is Rumble of the Ages. They cite Bob
Dylan, John Prine, and Paul Simon as major inﬂu-
ences on their music. The band has played Lincoln
Memorial University, Andrew College, Gordon Col-
lege, and other schools.

Cumutte is originally from West Virginia and
Maher hails from New Jersey. They met while at-
tending Wake Forest University. They now reside in
Nashville, Tennessee.

Maher majored in English while Cumutte ma-
jored in English and Philosophy. Although they have
not any formal musical training, they have taken
several private guitar lessons.

Scott's

‘I/l/@“Li e

LET LOOSE

The carnival is sponsored by W&L Student Ac-

tivities Department, and the proceeds will beneﬁt the

local chapter of the American Cancer Society, and
the Outing Club willbesupporting efforts to preserve
the rainforest.

“This is the first year we are having an actual
carnival. In previous years, the dining hall has had an
outdoor barbecue with dunk tank. This year I helped
organize it into a larger event,” said Michelle
Richardson Student Activities Coordinator.

Some students are more interested in the varia-
tions in music that will be offered at the concert
tonight. Four different student bands will be per-
forming between 4 and 7 p.m.. Each is slated to play
for one hour. At 8 p.m. the much acclaimed W&L
natives Brian Boland, Tommy Esposito and Pat
White, collectively known as The Outsiders, will be

playing.

The six carnival booths will be manned by W&L
student organizations. The Minority Student Asso-
ciation, the International Club, Dorm Counselors,
Resident Advisors, Freshman Leadership Council
and the Campus Ministries are all donating time to
the carnival.

Alpha Phi Omega, the service fraternity will be
selling tickets for the booths. Tickets are two for one
dollar, and can be used for the carnival games such
as, milk can toss, star darts, basketball toss.

A surprise addition to the carnival is the fortune
telling booth. For most students, their only experi-
ence with fortune telling has been Hunan’s ‘special’
Chinese fortune cookie.

There will be an opportunity for many students to
revenge their most ‘hated’ professors. Many faculty
members will be participating in the Dunk Tank.

For just $10 many students jumped at the chance
to participate in the volleyball tournament. Pre-
registration was required, but teams may still check
with Richardson, or Matt O’ Brien for extra spaces in
the tournament.

In case of rain, the carnival will be held at the
Pavilion. Due to space limitations at the rain sight,
the volleyball tournament will be canceled.

ﬁvening with Madame F.

I A work
of

By COURTNEY E. MILLER
Phi Features Editor

theater
with

music
performed
and
written

by
Claudio
Stevens

those involved.

camps.

performance.

Cohen.

studies.

The Holocaust touched many generations across the world, and numerous
dramatic works have been central in raising consciouness about the plight of

At 8 p.m. on Monday, April 24, 1995 at Lee Chapel, “An Evening with
Madame F” will be presented. This is a work of theater-with-music exploring
the life-or-death experience of music performance in Nazi concentration

This performance is sponsored by the Hillel Chapter of W&L through the
Weinstein Memorial Fund. Max and Silvia Weinstein established the fund to
promote Judaic studies. “An Evening with Madame F” provides an emotional
picture of an aspect rarely connected with Nazi concentration camps-—musical

Besides writing the production, Claudia Stevens will perform in “An
Evening with Madame F.” Music and electronic sound will be provided by Fred

Judaic education plays a small but important part at W&L. Productions
such as this hope to raise students interest in the historical relevance of Judaic

autobiography
,explores life within a gang

By MICHAEL HEWLE’I'I‘
Phi Associate Editor

One day in my high school English class, a substitute teacher went into the
politics of color in gang culture. He talked about how wearing the wrong color
in the wrong place could put you in a hollow grave. A few years back I watched
a documentary about L.A. gangs. I have long forgotten the details, but one image
stands out in my mind: an 8-year-old girl who was shot because she waved. A
gang took her wave as a marker for another gang. That image burned into my
mind. Plenty of images burn into my mind as I read Monster: TheAutobiography
of an L.A. Gang Member by Sanyika Shakur, a.k.a. Monster Kody Scott.

In the introduction, he says, “I propose to open my mind as wide as possible
to allow my readers the first ever glimpse of South Central from my side of the
gun, street, fence, and wall.”

And open his mind he does. Scott joins the gang when he’s 11-years-old. He
doesn’t have much of a choice: Either join or die. To him, the gang represents his
family, the people who protect him. When he joins, the gang jumps him in. In
other words, they beat the living hell out of him and then bring him into the family.

Monster’s overridding ambition is to retain O.G. status (Original Gangster).
There are three steps to attain this status.

“1. You must build the reputation of your name, i.e., you as an individual;

2. You must build your name in association with your particular set, so that
your name is spoken of in the same breath, for it is synonymous; and
3. You must establish yourself as a promoter of Crip or Blood, depending,

The bottom line: Build your reputation to the point where people will think
twice before they mess with you. Scott does this with much relish. He puts a hole
in anyone who even looks at him funny, anyone from another gang, anyone who
messes with his gang. His conscience doesn’t bother him anymore. He kills
without thinking. He becomes Monster, known for committing acts of violence
that even shocks his own gangmembers. Being shot himself doesn’t stop him
from attaining his ambition. Going to prison only increases his reputation.

Yet, when he goes to prison, he begins to transform himself. He reads, turning
from a gangmember to a black nationalist. He renames himself Sanyika Shakur
and commits himself to ﬁghting the causes of gansterism.

Monster writes a disturbing book. He takes the reader into a world where
territories are set and being in the wrong neighborhood could get you killed. He
describes a place where a wrong word or a wrong color will put a bullet to your
head. A dangerous world, a world where right and wrong are not as important as
simply surviviving. He details the mind-bogglin g organization of these gangs and
how they have progressed to the place where it’s not Crips killing Bloods but
Crips killing Crips.

Reading the book will not make you necessarily love Monster. The violence
he committed revolted me. But he is honest, and his honesty gives the book its
credibility and its power. We complain about how boring Lexington is. We don’t
know how lucky we are.

Monster describes a place where violence is an everyday occurrence, a place
where 5-year-olds see dead bodies, a place where teen-agers start planning their
own funerals. He describes a nightmare where only survival matters. This is not
a comforting book. Readers will not close this book and peacefully fall to sleep.
The violence will shock you because its real. It’s graphic and presents a terrifying
portrait of gang life in South Central L.A. But it provides a rare inside view of

- of course, on which side of the color bar you live.”

what it is like to be in a gang.

HﬂVE SITESS?
HY E kayak

By RACHELLE ROWE
Phi Contributing Writer

Kevin Batteh first witnessed kayaking from the
same place most of us probably did : from that cool
guy on Sesame Street. But what he did after seeing
this was probably very different from us: he made
kayaking -a part of his life.

Batteh ﬁrst kayaked while at Boy Scout Camp at
age 12. There he learned the most basic but important
form of rescue for any serious kayaker, the “eskimo
roll.” This is when the boater maneuvers his kayak
to the upright position after it has been turned upside
down and saves himself from drowning.

Kayaking has played an active roll in Batteh’s life
ever since then. Three years ago he became certified
to teach kayaking through a class in North Carolina
and teaches classes for the Outing Club every spring
term. However, Batteh is a senior now so if you’ve
been interested in learning to kayak, this spring term
will probably be your last chance to learn from a pro.

Batteh has spent his last two summers making a
small proﬁt doing what he loves most. He spent the
summer of 1993 in Colorado video kayaking on the
Arkansas River, or becoming what ‘many call a
“vidiot.”

He made and commentated videos of people white
water rafting. First he would kayak ahead of the

white water rafters and ﬁnd a spot on the rocks that

. he could sit with his camera and use his English skills

commentating the adventures of the rafters. They
call these people “vidiots” because if they get in
trouble, they are all alone, and this of course is very
dangerous.

On his days off, Batteh would travel and test the
rocky rivers of Colorado. His most intense kayaking
experience was in Independence Pass on Lake Creek.
He describes it as “hairboating” or just a “hairy”
experience in that the rapids were quite intense. He
remembers his time in Colorado very fondly and
obviously had a really great time. “I was getting paid
to do something I love and Colorado is so incred-
ible!”

Batteh spent last summer kayaking in West Vir- I

ginia. He says his dream is to kayak the Grand
Canyon. In terms of difficulty, it isn’t any more
intense than anything he’s kayaked before, but it’s
every serious kayakers' dream. It takes about 2-3
weeks and there’s a waiting list for the permit.

Batteh manages to keep kayaking a major part of
his life while staying active here at W&L. As an
English major in pursuit of a law degree, he divided
his spare time between his position as former IFC
President, and his fraternity.

He considers Goshen Pass his “home river” since
he is most familiar with it from his years of school
here. He admits kayaking is a good stress reliever,
but concedes his love stems from its “adrenaline
rush.”

 

%_.  ‘

Batteh hails Goshen Pass as his ‘ho

:1

me river.’

OPAGE3

Farley, Spade
compensate for
Tommy Boy's
nonexistent plot

 

   

By KIRK SUSONG
Phi Movie Reviewer

_ 

    

Tommy Boy — tkﬁrl/2

It seems that the writers and producers of Saturday Night Live have caught
some sort of terrible disease. All of their scripts and creations fall into one of two
categories: they are eitherfantastically hilarious or embarrassingly desperate for
laughs (remember “Tiny Elvis”?).

Luckily, Tommy Boy falls mainly in the former. Brian Dennehy plays a
successful car parts manufacturerwho wants to bring his fun but none-too-bright
son Tommy (Chris Farley) into the company. But when his father dies unexpect-
edly, it is up to young Tommy to save the company, his fortune, and the jobs of
his employees.

This means he has to hit the road to sell thousands of new brake pads the
company has staked its future on. Going along with him is the smart-ass know-
it-all no one liked in high school, Richard Hayden (David Spade).

The ﬁlm is most successful when those two are dominating the screen. They
fonn a good duo reminiscent of the best two-somes of the past (Hope & Crosby,
Martin & Lewis, Burns & Allen, etc.). The writers provide them with plenty of
barbed witticisms, wise-cracks and put-downs to ﬂing at each other. For
example, when Farley asks if his jacket makes him look fat, Spade responds, “No.
Your head makes you look fat.”

David Spade has perfected the quick, muted, under-his-breath insult and the
indignant sarcastic reply, like his “Hollywood Minute” on SNL. As funny as
Spade is throughout the film, it is really Farley who comes into his own.

Although the ﬁlm is light in tone and subject matter, I was surprised to see
what a quality actor Farley could be. During the ﬁlm’s few sensitive moments,
it is amazing the range and depth of emotion Farley coaxes from the limiting
script.

Peter Segal (Naked Gun 33 1/3) directs with only the barest effort, staying out
of the way and letting the comedy do its own thing. Written by a cast of SNL
regulars (Bonnie & Terry Turner and Fred Wolfe), the script is truly hit-and-miss.
The good moments are easily laugh-out-loud funny, and the slow ones come so
infrequently it is easy for us to wait them out.

Don’t expect any exciting plotting or character developments — here every-
thing serves the rapport and tension between Farley and Spade. There are also
some distracting side-plots involving Bo Derek, Rob Lowe and a love interest for
Farley which could have easily been left out.

Nevertheless the ﬁlm is, on the whole, very funny. It is the sort of humor you
would expect from the SNL bunch, and hopefully we will see more ﬁlms from
the Farley/Spade duo in the future. I am not sure if Tommy Boy is worth going
out of yourjway to see. But let me put it this way: it is not as funny as Wayne ’s
World, but funnier than Wayne ’s World 2. .

The Rating Scale

t5t*13n’§r1’§r - Gobuy this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an instant classic. “You’ll
laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something about yourself.”
rfnértir - Go see this ﬁlm now, while it’s still on the big screen. It’s worth a few Oscar
nominations and the seven bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall,
“Better than Cats!”

1&7} - Okay, so there have been better films. Nevertheless, it is a good example of its
genre, and you should probably see it on videotape. Still, probably “Better than
Cats!”

{fr - It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off tomorrow’s reading. Although
your time would probably be better served on your education, its free and you’re
bored, so go ahead and watch it.

Q — Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed harder, trust me,
this one sucks. Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste it on this. (There’s
always MTV.)

      

 

He currently teaches students the basics of kyaking.

   

-at‘

 

 

PAGE 4

 

SHOE
by Jeff MacNeI|y

“‘ll/‘tll."/
It//l,';”’l DE

YOU'VE BEEN HIT BY THE
THUNDERBOLT.

   

 
     
  
 

7/242715 2&POA’5

© I 995 TIdt1¥tr.t Immnmr: mu) A/inuily A.i.-nriutimi /Col/(yr Rzlirtnmil [iqu1'Ii}.r I"mi3.

F-IEY. WHERE
ARE THE

BEER NUTS?

 

 
 

V DO YOU BELIEVE
IN LOVE AT FIRST

  

 

 «Eris

'99: Tribune Media Services. lrx. in Rights Reserved

 

 

/9 S. Eewalaéeé St.
463-2742

995 'l'rlIiunA Media Services. Inn. All Rights Reserved

 

W&LIF E

   
 
 

   

; I

.».-.-.. .’ I ».”~..;

     
  
      
 
 
  
  

UNLESS
YOU
COUNT
SHAVING

IN THE
MORNING.

    
    
  
    
 
  

ALL I'VE EVER FELT
I5 STATIC ELECTRICITY
FROM THE OCCASIONAL

HAIRPIECE.

 

 

  
   

"ACcE950iZY BM-aEINc1”A~o "icE—PAci< THEKAPY“
was A FEW Mi~uT€-3 OF REAUX AWEQOME

    

7

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21,1995

DAVE
by David Miller

DAIZLA, ‘SOMEWHERE BETWEEN

MOUNTAIN BIKE ACTION.’

,MIXED MEDIA
by Jack Ohman

WI-IO IMPROPERIN

    

P RINCIPLLZS n_/' S()lJ.\‘l) RliTlRli.\l l£N'l‘

BY THE
HOCKEY GAME.

    

    

-«ow AW-r ’:£’3“'..?::?.‘.’.‘..“*°"‘

FORM F(3)c,$(HEDULE K]?

/2

.4\¢\~)°'

\¢_ ,

     
 

HAM
'9U|'903IM°S'£°VI°‘Wl1.l.966l

‘P9’-‘9*9tI9I

 

Students Needed! '
Earn up to $2,000+/month working for Cruise
Ships or Land-Tour Companies. World Travel.
Seasonal and Full-Time employment available.
No experience necessary. For more information
call: Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-04§8_,ext. C53421

1 >ri7_’>.

ION ROAD AND MOUNTAIN BIKES

Diamond Back, TREK, Brid estone, Giant,
and Cignal inclu ed
Full warranty and 60 day free service

4p_'

\

li\IVI£STI.\'(f‘. \

\

or last relief from the nagging ache of taxes. we
F recommend TIAA-CREF SRAS. SRAS are tax-
delerred annuities designed to help build additional
assets~money that can help make the difference
between living and living wc// alter your working years
are over.

Contributions to your SRAS are deducted from
your salary on a pre—tax basis. That lowers your
current taxable income, so you start saving on taxes
right away. What's more, any earnings on your SRAS
are also tax—del‘erred until you receive them as income.
That can make a big dillerence in how painful your tax
bill is every year.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

“S/uriilziril c7'I’mirii llli'Il7‘IllIt't‘ /(ii/iiiq /lmi/_y.1iir, I994; Lippei‘ Analytical Services, Inc, [rip/u'/'~/)1"/'i‘i'Iiinr '/lmi/_vl/rIi/ /lulu, I9‘)-I (QLiai'tei'l_\'). CREF
certilicates are clisrributetl by TIAA-CREI7 Individual and Institutional Services. Inc. For more complete inliii'iii.iiion. including charges and
expenses, call I 800-84?-2733, ext. 5509 for a CREE prospectus. Read the prospectus C-JI‘£‘l.Ull_\’ lielore you invest or send money. /

As the nation's largest retirement system, we oller

a wide range of allocation choices—l‘rom TlAA's
traditional annuity, with its guarantees oliprincipal
and interest, to the seven (Iiversilied investment
accounts oi‘ CREF's variable annuity. \Vhat's more,
our expenses are very lo\v,° which means more oi.

tour mone r oes toward im rovin our future
.3

financial health.

To lind out more, call our planning specialists at
I 800 842-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA
information kit. plus a tree slide—calculator that shows

you how much SRAs can lower your taxes.

Call today—it couldn't hurt.

 " "CLOSEOUT sAi.E;NoW~+?  I  ‘
ALL SALE BIKES MARKED DOWN 15%-30%

Lexington

463-7969

BIKE SHOP
130 S. Main

saran Ellben: — Scholar, Athlete,
Mentor - Former PIII Editor

HOW TO GET YOUR JOLLIES

AT COLLEGE 24 HOURS A DAY.

if
3%
34>?
3+6

To appl

________________________________________________________1

Open a tab at a diner.
Belgian waffles and cheese fries with gravy
are delicious, regardless of the hour.

Visit a local court of law.
Plenty of seating, unique conversation and
drama thatimproves the later it gets.

Be the gym night janitor.
Work out at your leisure and never wait
in line for lat pulldowns or the erg.

Get a Citibank Classic card.
For your peace of mind, operators are
on call 24 hours a day, 7' days a week.

WE'RE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU."

y, call |—80O CITIB/\Nl(.

    

© I995 Citibank (South Dal<ota). N.A.

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
J

  
   
 
  
 

 

  

V The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1995

4

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Great Expectations —— Too Great?

April 3 was a day of bitter irony. Most students were agonizing over

‘l the pressures of final examinations. We were pushed to the limits of

academic stress and pulled through. The faculty was busy that day as
well. They passed a resolution raising the Dean’s List requirement
from 3.0 to 3.4 and Honor Roll from 3.5 to 3.75.

We were struggling to achieve and win success, while they altered
the terms of that success.

Talk to any student and one will discover Washington and Lee is not
an easy school. There is no grade inﬂation. Students are not given a
free ride. Academic standards are rigorous.

Yes, over half of the student body makes Dean’s List. That’s
because they deserve to make the Dean’s List. It should be an
obtainable honor. With the newly imposed 3.4 requirement, many
students will lose the incentive to strive for the Dean’s List.

The faculty believes a certain exclusivity should accompany the
Dean’s List and Honor Roll. After all, what’s the purpose of a Dean’s
List in which 53 percent of students are members? The Ring-tum Phi
agrees — in part. Let us suggest a solution to the exclusivity issue.
Raise the Honor Roll requirement to 3.6. Allow the Honor R011 to be
the elite fraternity of intellectuals which the faculty deems so necessary.

The Dean’s List, however, should be left alone. When half of the
students earn the distinction to be named to the List, it is testament to
their tenacious efforts and hard work. Why deny them that victory?

Why ignore their achievements to glorify the few?

Rest, Reflect, Rethink...

Goshen, Monday night parties, laying out, Total Theatre, Zollman’s,
ultimate frisbee on the front lawn...these are the days of Spring Term.

Unlike the intense trials of Fall and Winter Tenns, Spring Term
allows students a chance to relax, reﬂect, and rethink.

A time to relax. Enjoy the relative ease of having only two classes
and take advantage of the slowed pace. Catch your breath and defeat,
at last, those winter doldmms.

A time to reﬂect. Look back on the previous seven months.
Recognize your successes and admit failures. Resolve to improve next
time.

A time to rethink. With the chaos passed, renew your enthusiasm
about Washington and Lee. This University is rich with honor,’
tradition, and excellence. Glance around — you’re amidst greatness.

Spring Term is not only glorious for its sun, music, and revelry, but
the opportunity it affords each student to re-establish his faith in this

institution.

Hello!

This issue of The Ring-tum Phi marks a beginning. It is the ﬁrst
issue of our new staff. We promise to deliver the campus news
promptly, accurately, and regularly. We will maintain a policy of
fairness, excellence, and quality. We are Washington and Lee’s 98-
year-old newspaper and look forward to serving in the grand tradition

of our predecessors.

Quote of the Week...

“I could give a couple of good ‘Quotes of the Week’
right now, but I don’t think anybody wants to hear it.”

Rookie Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter,
asked his opinion of the ‘Quote

of the Week’at 3:30 Friday morning

OPINION

  
  
   
    
   
   

I‘vE Got AN
musk mas, A
LL05:-:7 FuL|-

0" hL<‘.oHol- AND

RN rust Sci-lEDuLE.
‘JJHAT Mots coal.»
1. ASK FOR?

‘\ I

g A Joe
I M-‘TE R
GltAt>umoN ?

PAGE 5

 
  
 
     
 
 
  

  
  
    
 

‘Amherstization’ threatens university

 
 
   

A" ‘ NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

Two recent events, in my perhaps
not-so-humble opinion, should give all
true Washington and Lee gentlemen
(and ladies) genuine cause for alarm. I
am thinking, first of all, about the re-
cent decision to mandate that sopho-
mores live in University housing. Ob-
jections to this policy differ in their
rationale: some say the policy is unfair
to W&L women, some ‘that it is a
scarcely concealed attack on the frater-
nity system. In defense of its policy,
the administration contends that a
sophomore housing requirement will
help build a sense of community Uni-
versity-wide and will provide W&L
with needed funds. Whoever is right,
the fact remains that the policy is a
direct assault on the principle of stu-
dent self-govemment. And if the sopho-
more housing requirement does end up
developing a sense of solidarity among

. the students, one suspects that that ca-

maraderie will probably find its basis
more in a shared resentment of Big
Brother in Washington Hall than in
anything else.

A parallel case is the appointment of
a dean of student activities to supervise
what we optimistically label ‘fun’ at
Washington and Lee. Again, detractors

insist this move is just one more at-
tempt to reduce the power of fratemi-
ties at W&L.
The official justification, to be sure,
would be phrased quite differently-
the purpose of the student activities
dean, the administration might say, is
to give the social scene at W&La depth
it has never before had. With a ‘dean of
fun’ in place, it might be claimed,
students will have for the first time a
truly free choice about whether or not
they wish to affiliate themselves with
any Greek organization. Which argu-
ment one accepts,«pro or con, depends
largely on how one evaluates the work
our fraternities and sororities are doing
in meeting the social needs of the W&L
student body.
In any event, what is more distress-
ing about the Student Activities Coor-
dinator is not her feelings toward the
fraternities (whatever they maybe),
but her remarkably poor judgment and
highly questionable taste. The
University’s new social standards, ex-
empliﬁed by the recent talk, “Hot, Sexy,
and Safer,” are, in fact, an affront to
any civilized concept of decency and
decorum. l freely (indeed, proudly)
admit that I did not attend this “memo-
rable and entertaining lecture,” but ev-
erything l have heard seems to indicate
that, if such a thing as taste still exists,
Ms. Landolphi violates it.
lt is in many respects an insult to the
intelligence of the student body that
the University now believes we need
to be goaded by a dean in order to have
anappropriate level and variety of ‘fun,’

but it is even more distressing what
‘fun’ is now considered to be.

Getting to the heart of the matter, I
want to suggest the following: that all
planning for the future at Washington
and Lee is divided into two parts— two
paths, if you will, and we show every
sign of choosing the lesser of the two.

On the one hand, there are many
professors, administrators, alumni, and
even students who exalt the
pontiﬁcations of U.S. News & World
Report as the deﬁnitive standard on
which the success of our University
ought to be judged. By this line of
reasoning, Amherst and Williams are
the nearest thing to perfection that any
liberal arts college can hope to achieve,
and we ought to concentrate our efforts
on following their esteemed examples.
It is, in the ﬁnal analysis, more through
policy inertia than by conspiratorial
design that our University has drifted
slowly but inexorably in this lamen-
table direction, but, whatever the cause,
it should by now be obvious that the
“Amherstization” of W&L is an unde-
niable fact of life. Forcing students to
live on campus, restricting fraternities,
and promoting a social agenda disre-
spectful of traditional civilities, after
all, are policies entirely consistent
with the Amherst approach to Univer-
sity governance.

There is, however, a second ideal for
W&L, one inﬁnitely better suited to our
history and character, that of Robert E.

Lee. The University envisioned by Lee,
a community of pious and morally un-
impeachable scholars, united in a com-

mitment to honesty, integrity and

gentlemanly conduct, remains a laud-
able, if not entirely practicable goal.

Many administrators, for their part,

rightly condemn the rampant abuse of
alcohol at Washington and Lee. But
instead of doing as Lee would have
done—-instead of directly enforcing
whatever new regulations seem to be
required in order to purge our commu-

nity of such disreputable conduct—our
administrators insist on duplicitously
extending their control over such mor-
ally neutral questions aswhere the W&L
student body chooses to live. The truth
is, of course, that fraternities are offen-
sive to some left-leaning bureaucrats
for reasons other than simply their ten-

dency to promote the irresponsible use _

of alcohol; many members of the W&L
community also want to abolish frater-
nities in order to help exorcise any
lingering ghosts of gender distinctions
frorri our society, which is, it goes with-
out saying, far aﬁeld from the primary
purpose of a liberal arts college.

The crux of the issue is this: if our
University and its unique ethos are to
survive, then we, the students, must
demand of our administrators that they
lay bare the full implications of their
vision for W&L’s future (or lack
thereof). 1, for one, came here,’ and
forswore more typical liberal arts col-
leges, for a very good reason: W&L is
unique among American universities
for its high academic, cultural and ethi-
cal standards. If this uniqueness is to be
preserved, then now is the time to make
our voices heard.

@112 itiing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Hewlett

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord, Cindy Young

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christeruen

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwslter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Christine Garnavish, Courtney Miller

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickinger

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenni Grant

Advertisement Composition Anist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

Advertising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washingtm and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but Theking-turn Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’: edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-nun Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

Affirmative Action for ‘angry White males’

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

As a white male myself, and one who is fre-
quently angered by the hypocrisy and incompe-
tence, not to mention the widespread, outright venal-
ity of the interests which seem to be controlling
Washington these days, I hesitate to lampoon or
dismiss certain views just because someone calls
them the domain of “angry white males.”

But, to be honest, many of the defenses of these
views written by white males seem to be little more
than whining about the erosion of a system that has
made the government a proprietary defender of their
interests alone for most of our history. Some white
men in this country seem to be willing to violate the
first principles of our country in order to defend a
status quo that keeps them on top.

Witness Proposition 187 in California, Pete
Wilson's promotion of a constitutional amendment
excluding the children of illegal immigrants, born on
American soil, from citizenship (upon what other
basis does his own claim to American citizenship, or
anyone else's, rest? It's a modem Dred Scott provi-
sion) and widespread discontent about alleged re-
verse discrimination in the application of Affirma-
tive Action programs, despite study after study docu-
menting very little actual reverse discrimination
taking place.

Quite a bind. For instance, it would not take
anyone long to ﬁnd a white male on the Washington
and Lee campus, probably a C-school major, who
would fume about the injustice of judging people on
anything other than merit, then turn around and
defend the 60/40 male to female ratio this university
uses to “ease the transition” to co-education, but
which really has the effect of both promoting some
less qualiﬁed men in the admissions process and
unfairly denying opportunities to some more quali-
ﬂed women. The next time you hear this Affinnative
Action-bashing from a man on campus, consider the
fact that he may be here not because of his merit or
ability, but simply because the admissions process at -
W&L brings in less qualified students simply be-
cause of their gender.

The origin of Affirmative Action was never some

liberal conspiracy to promote unqualiﬁed people. To
make that argument is racist in itself: it assumes that
every time a minority person has been promoted over
a non-minority candidate, the non-minority candidate
has been more qualiﬁed.

It is also revealed as faulty by Justice Department
surveys which have shown that this kind of so-called
“reverse discrimination” has only occurred in about
1.5 percent of cases. Now let's all count on our ﬁngers
how many times real discrimination against minorities
has occurred. No one likes to talk about that. It cannot
even really be documented, because, unlike Affirma-
tive Action programs, it is insidious and originates in
hate and contempt rather than any motive of levelling
the playing ﬁeld in this
country—so no official
records can be kept.

Affirmative Action
was designed to open up

The next time you hear this

creaky and awkward, a leftover from the sixties and
the Johnson and Nixon administrations. But so was the
whole government, until Bill Clinton showed up. The
intervening administrations did not seem to have time

‘to actually run the government. Affirmative Action

has a proud history. It has accomplished what it was
designed to accomplish. Stack that up against the
Rural Electriﬁcation Administration, the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, or the Post Ofﬁce,
and you'll see that for a government program, it is the
equivalent of a Ferrari Testarossa transmission.
President Clinton is on- the right track with Afﬁr-
mative Action, as he has been with much of the federal
bureaucracy. Fewer people now work in the federal
government than at any
time since JFK was in
the White House. Pro-
cesses have been stream-
lined andwaste cut. all in

traditionally closed ﬁelds
to minority candidates. lt
has done so. It has had the
ancillary effect, also emi-
nently desirable, of help-
ing to create a larger black
middle class than has ever
existed before in this na-
tion. Why? Because mi-
nority candidates were
unqualiﬁed? On the con-

Affirmative Action-bashing
from a man on campus, con-
sider the fact that he may be
here not because of his merit
or ability, but simply because
the admissions process at
W&L brings in less qualiﬁed
students simply because of

extremely effective. sen-
sible ways. Now his ad-
ministration is running a
comprehensive reviewof
all federal Affirmative
Action programs, with
an eye towards elimi-
nating its more egre-
gious misapplications.
This is how government
should work.

trary, it is because minor-
ity candidates have been
able to develop their abili-
ties in careers for which
they would not have been considered before, and have
been able to demonstrate ability and competence once
that barrier was overcome.

However, l do understand criticisms of specific
applications that have resulted in unfair practices.
Hard quotas are especially pernicious. But the angry
white male does not understand that that is not what all
Affirmative Action programs are about. Minority out-
reach, integrating outlandishly discriminatory strong-
holds through the courts, promoting fair employment
practices and non-discrimination policies are also the
fruits of Afﬁrmative Action, and they protect the
interests of every American.

It is true that old-style Affirmative Action is a hit

their gender.”

As for the 60/40 ratio,
if you are for it, you
should certainly be for
Affirmative Action. Both
have promoted noble ends by encouraging real results
over individual "equality," as if such a thing has ever
or could ever really exist. I believe the ratio, while it
may exclude some qualified candidates, actually has
had very beneﬁcial effects: preserving the gender
balance in our little Shenandoah Valley college belt,
moving slowly to promote an orderly progression
from all-male to co-ed, and producing truly outstand-
ing female alumnae who have been a credit to the
reputation and legacy of Washington and Lee.

But, like Affirmative Action, the gender ratio, 1

' believe, has become creaky and outdated. It is prob-

ably due for a Clinton-style bureaucracy-busting,
mindset-challenging overhaul. -

 

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1995 Y

Spring room-cleaning year in making

D REAM LAND
Richard Weaver

l’ve been meaning all year to clean
my room, and I ﬁgured that spring
term, with only two classes, was a
really good time to start.

It’s not as if my room started off
messy at the beginning of the year; in
fact, I’ve been very organized. I put
everything in separate piles based ei-
ther on subject matter, date, or if it’s the
same color as other things in the pile.
The problem arises when the piles over-
ﬂow or when you run out of ﬂoor space
and start having to store things in the
bathroom (or in the Phi ofﬁce).

I decided it was time to go through
the piles and make more compact piles
out of them. As I was sorting, I found
some interesting things, like several
boxes of World’s Skin Critters Tattoo
and Candy, which I bought at a dollar
store in Florida. Each box contains
about 20 pieces of gum shaped like
cigarettes, as well as several dragon
tattoos. As a college student in per-
petual search for food and entertain-
ment, this was a two—fer. No more
empty Friday nights.

I also came across something I
bought in an extreme fit of boredom:
Totally Uninhibited: TheLife and Wild

Times of Cher by Lawrence J. Quirk,
the shallowest book I have ever read.
You may also recall that Quirk wrote
Fasten Your Seat Belts: The Passion-
ate Life ofBette Davis. The Cher book
cost me $2; my standards for reading

museum curator gazing approvingly at
the wax postman. The wax postman
gazed back. Just like in the real
post office.

I also found a great picture from the
News Gazette called “beaming How

do lower with to Milk A
price. Who can Cow.” It fea-
beat passages tured four
like, “After ?‘“—“‘—  “'*:“—" kinderganeners
awhile, you get _ attempting to
tltile fieling that if Each box contains milk a W0t(1)den
s es owed some - cow, w ose
expression, she’d about 20,plec_eS Ofgum painted facial
wrinkle or Shaped like cigarettes, expression
crack...Sheisn’t as well _aS Several seemed to in-
the undead — dicatehedidn’t
she’s the unold.” dragon tattoos‘ AS a appreciate the
That’smy):<indpf college student in per- :ttempts.Ia_1so
woman. us s e aveaci in

already has her petual Search for food that mar)’/P bi

own tattoos.

I also un-
earthed all kinds
of bank state-
ments, credit card
bills, threatening
letters from Co-
lumbia House, divorce papers from my
ﬁrst wife, etc. Among all of them were
some of my favorite clippings from the
LexingtonNews Gazette, like the story
(and picture!) of the recent addition of
a wax postman to the Natural Bridge
Wax Museum. The picture featured a

The Ping-tum

and entertainment, this
was a two-fer. No more
empty Friday nights. ”

partially, re-
lated to the
cowszamanure
fire near the
Horse Center.
There was a
great picture of
Lexington ﬁre crew trying to put the
blaze out. The article didn’t say if they
used the fire truck that Washington and
Lee gave the city of Lexington a couple
of years back.

You can’t beat finding old mail in
your room, either. I came across a

picture mailed to the Phi office of Miss
Teen All American, SreeRatna
Kancherla. It used to hang on my wall.
Judging by the number of pictures of
Miss Teen All Americans sent to the
Phi office, their term of ofﬁce must be
around 3 weeks. I also have a letter
from the National Library of Poetry
asking me to submit a poem for publi-
cation in their new book. I’m not sure
what my poem will be about, but it will
deﬁnitely have several gratuitous ref-
erences to SreeRatna Kancherla. I’m
submitting her picture with my
poem, also.

Clothes are also a special find in my
room. I came across several shirts that
I last recall wearing while I was in high
school. I think my mother may have
planted them in my apartment during
Parents’ Weekend. lt’s always inter-
esting to pick up a crumbled T-shirt,
see a stain on it, and try to remember its
history (Example: “When was the last
time I had fondue?”). My hint for orga-
nizing questionable clothing: use it to
add padding to your bed.

My room is nearing completion
now, but like a poem, that’s up for
interpretation. As I tell visitors, “This
is my room; it’s not a museum, I just
live there.”

Hey, if I can only think of some-
thing that rhymes with that, SreeRatna
and I will be famous.

  business.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Asian Exchange

Opportunities to help introduce
Asian students to W&L’s social life,
advise them on courses, help with
cultural adjustment and English are
becoming available. Students inter-
ested in volunteeringtobebig broth-
ers or sisters to next year’s students
from Hong Kong and Japan should
contact Professor Hill at 462-8829,
Professor Rogers at 462-8936, or in
their ofﬁces in the East Asian Lan-
guage Center (Red House).

Campus Carnival

The Student Activities Depart-
ment is sponsoring the Campus Car-
nival Friday, April 21 from 4-8 p.m.
at the Law School Field. Admission
is free. Activities will include bands,
free food, sumo wrestling, carnival
mirrors, face painting, Velcro ﬂ ytrap,
a dunk tank and carnival game booths.

Peer Counseling

The Peer Counseling program is
now accepting applications for mem-
bership in their program. Applica-
tion forms may be picked up from
Mrs. Calkins in the University Cen-
ter. The deadline for applying is
April 26 by 5 pm.

Phonathon

The Annual Fund Phonathon will
be held from Sunday, April 123 to
Thursday, April 27 and on Sunday,
April 30 through Thursday, May 4
from 6:30-10 p.m. and will be held in
the Development Office in Washing-
ton Hall. Shifts run an hour and a half

and participants will receive a free T-

shirt and ﬁve-minute long distance
call anywhere in the U.S. Contact
Heather at 462-4115 if interested.

Film Society

To mark the beginning of the
Holocaust Days of Remembrance,
the Washington and Lee Film Soci-
ety and the Hillel Association will
be presenting “Schindler's List”
(USA/Poland, 1993), in English, in
the Troubadour Theater at the cor-
ner of Main and‘ Henry Streets at
8:05 p.m. Friday, April 21 and
Saturday, April 22. There is
no charge. -

“Madam F”

The Hillel Foundation with sup-
port from the Max and Sylvia
Weinsteinfund will sponsorClaudia
Stevens’s perfonnance of her one-
woman theatre piece entitled “An
Evening with Madam F” Monday,
April 24 at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The show dramatizes Holocaust ex-
periences of several survivors
through music and drains. It com-
memorates U.S. Holocaust Week.

Mock Convention

Mock Convention’s Spring
Kickoff will feature several events
in Lee Chapel. Former Rep. and
Housing and Urban Development
Secretary Jack Kemp will speak
Tuesday, April 25 at 11:45 a.m. On
Wednesday, April 26 at 7:30 p.m., a
forum featuring Republican poll-
ster Lance Tarrance, local Congress-
man Bob Goodlatte, and W&L Poli-
tics professor William F. Connelly,
Jr. will discuss issues facing the
Republican party in this election
cycle. Mock Convention will also
sponsor former Reagan Assistant to
the President for Political and
Intergovernmental Affairs Frank J.
Donatelli’s speech Thursday, April
27 at 8 p.m.

A cookout will be held in the
Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad from
5:30-6:30 p.m. Friday, April 28.

Polish Economist

Leszek Balcerowicz, Professor
of Economics at the Warsaw School
of Economics, Wiegand Distin-
guished Visiting Professor in De-
mocratization at Georgetown Uni-
versity, chairman of the political
party Freedom Union and former
deputy prime minister and minister
of finance of non—communist Po-
land, will speak on “Understanding
Post-Communist Transitions” in
Commerce School Room 221 May
1 at 3 p.m.

Women’s Center

The Women’s Center Suite 305
in Gaines Hall is available to any
women who wish to use it. Feel free
to use the VCR and library. Call Jen
Hickes at 463-9240 for keys or con-
tact Chris Albert, Head R.A. for
more information.

for more information.

Phi is looking for
peopleinterested in working in
the areas of advertising and

  Contact Bob Nelson. Phi
  Business Manager. at 462-4059  

 

  

VI
The Ring-tum Phi, April 21, 1995

OPINION
LETTERS

 

Use of emblem does not indicate Amnesty support of cause

\

To the editor:

Recently, an organization called the
Shenandoah Valley Leonard Peltier
Support has posted signs around cam-
pus with the label “Leonard Peltier

Update” that have Amnesty
lnternational’s name and two of our
emblems on them.

This design was taken directly from
one of our posters without our permis-
sion, and the organization is using the

name “Amnesty lntemational” with-
out the permission of our chapter or
that of the national organization.

The Washington and Lee chapter of
Amnesty Intemational_ has never had
any connection with this organization,

and it has never sponsored any activi-
ties on behalf of Leonard Peltier.
Prisoners of conscience are
onsidered to be people who are impris-
oned simply for expressing their politi-
cal or religious beliefs in a non-

violent manner.

Although one of the main goals of
Amnesty International is freeing pris-
oners of conscience, Leonard Peltier
has been convicted of murder, and he is
not considered to be a prisoner of con-

science by Amnesty lntemational.

Julie Dorin, ’96

President, Amnesty International
Kathleen McNamara, ’96

Vice President, Amnesty lntemational.’

 

Thanks to Phi Alpha Delta Law Service Fraternity students 3

To the editor:

I would like to thank Amy Alcoke and the

setting up the Downtown Lexington Easter Egg

All their hard work was appreciated. The

ing the eggs, while the adults had as much fun

happier for the children of Lexington and»

Hunt this year. Over 200 children ran around Easter Bunny even Showed up to hand out watching them. Rockbridge C°“m)’- 3
the W&Llawn in front of Lee Chapel searching candy eggs and wish the children The whole community is grateful to these 3
for over 2,000 plastic eggs hidden by members Happy Easter. law students, who gave up part of their Easter Woodson A. Sadler

Phi Alpha Delta Law Service Fraternity for the
tremendous job they did in sponsoring and

of the fraternity.

The children had a wonderful time gather-

weekends to make

this Easter a

little Colonel, USMC (Ret.)

Dean Howison’s perspective on student governance 

To the editor:

Over the past few weeks, many students have asked me
about student governance and autonomy at Washington and
Lee. It is in important and pertinent question.

The role of students in the governance of Washington
and Lee is complex and unique in American higher educa-
tion. The most prominent aspect of the governance system
is the Executive Committee's administration of the Honor
System—an example of pure student autonomy. By the
authority of the Board of Trustees, the Honor System is
exclusively run by students. The University administration
and faculty have no authority over the system. However, all
other areas of student governance, including discipline and
supervision of student organizations, rest with the faculty as
delegated by the Board of Trustees in the by-laws
of the University.

Leadership lacking on winter rush issue

human being with some valid concerns about changing rush.
So what would I advise the IFC and my fellow students to do? How about

To the editor:

In the everyday life of the University community, this
system works well. The Executive Committee manages the
Honor System and in the other areas of student life, students
elect officers, appoint students to committees, allocate funds
to student organizations, adjudicate disciplinary matters,
supervise the dormitories and residence halls, and run Fancy
Dress and Mock Convention and the intramural program-
all with little or no administrative or faculty intervention. It
is when an issue arises that has broad implications for the
entire University that this system of governance is tested.
The most dramatic example in recent years is coeducation.

Although I was not at Washington and Lee in the mid-
1980's when coeducation was being debated, I know that
there was strong student opposition. The alumni were over-
whelmingly opposed. Nevertheless, the University admin-
istration and the faculty concluded that coeducation ws in
the best interests of Washington and Lee and the issue was

sent to the Board of Trustees. The Board approved coeduca-
tion in 1984 and we see the results of that decision all
around us.

Today, the issue that challenges our system of gover-
nance is fraternity rush. This is not a new issue. For over 20
years,the University administration, faculty and students
have debated the nature of the freshman experience at
Washington and Lee, and the impact that a fall fraternity
rush has on that experience. The Institutional Long Range
Plan of 1989 and te more recent Coeducation Review
Committee Final Report both recommended winter rush for
fraternities. The Interfratemity Council and the overwhelm-
ing majority of fraternity members have consistently op-
posed winter rush.

Since approving the existing delayed pledgeship pro-
gram in 1987, the faculty has maintained a discreet distance
from the supervision and management of the system. Some

a

modifications in certain aspects of the program have been”
made but the overall format of fall rush followed by delayed'
pledgeship with initiation in March has remained in place.‘
Now, as indicated by its 83-3 vote in favor of winter rush, the‘
faculty has forced the issue by raising an important questionfrz
Is the present fall fraternity rush system in the best interests
of Washington and Lee? *
As we work to answer that question, it is important to.
understand the evolutionary process that brought us to this
point, including the delicate balance between student au-
tonomy, faculty prerogatives and administrative responsi-
bilities. I am confident that we have the resources to make.
the right decision. Our system of governance is strong. It has;
served Washington and Lee well in the past and it will;
serve us well in the years to come. ‘

David L. Howison, Dean of Students

Is it just me, or does this whole winter rush debate seem a bit strange? I mean,
I thought fall rush was important to students. If that’s true, why do we have an IFC
that has shown an appalling lack of leadership from day one of this debate? Why
do we have an IFC president resigned to the faculty's dogmatic decision? This
issue highlights W&L’s lack of any real student government brilliantly.

I also thought that the students and their viewpoints were important to the
University. If fall rush is as bad as the faculty says, why don’t more students want
to change it? I think the vast majority of students would agree that the faculty has
not really tried to hear student opinion on this matter and hasn’t listened too well
or cared too much when it did. It also strikes me that Professor Williams should
be brought before the EC for saying that he does not know anyone who wants to
get rid of fraternities. Respectfully, members of the faculty and administration,
this attitude does not fool anyone as to your real desires and intentions. And lest
you all say that students have not been forthcoming with reasons against this
change, let me ask you why that might be. Could it be that students are afraid of
angering their dogmatic elders by disagreeing openly? Call me crazy, but I

thought when I paid $20,000+ to a school, I could get-a little respect-zas a thinking

sticking to your guns and stating the arguments against the winter rush monstros-
ity loudly and proudly? How about contacting alumni to let them know exactly
what is being done to the students so that they can register their disapproval on
Alumni Weekend? How-about asking alumni brothers to cease donations until
fall rush is kept? How about mass student walkouts, or asking each fraternity
member to forget to pay his fall tuition bill?

The whole idea of reforming higher education is based on the utter disregard
for the university’s customers that the Washington and Lee faculty and admin-
istration is now showing.

Now lest some of you say this is a little drastic, I ask you what the alternatives
are. Rational debate could continue into the twenty-first century without chang-
ing faculty minds. The founding fathers of our country, including George
Washington, recognized the power of the purse and public opinion, and it’s a
shame the IFC doesn’t share that vision. I thought that when you had a principle,
you fought for it. Meek and silent submission rarely wins change or respect.

Joshua Heslinga, ’98

 

oﬂaue/(agate: cyamm %at-am.
mam <~/am/gy Sézwgy yaw, Wm €04-M fétmzme ﬁmmaa 9; gomcﬂzay  , tsazm gc/t't‘o4a
Cﬂgéaf  , %a4zm~../e€°aye %uzM.  



W  m afa éea% 875/WW4 gmmmc/azaysm/M /my
03% 6M?/ %..,4zom/€o’0.mz/

8’""cozz aswamga, Sﬁom %a4zMc

Photos and interviews by Ethan Krupp

What is your ideal Spring Term class?

    



Chris Buford, .’96, Richmond,
VA—“Noodling for credit.”

Virginia Flatau, ’98, Macon,
GA—“Wine-tasting.”

TALKBACK

 

Nicole Richards, ’98, White Bear Lake, MN and Erin Rosencrans,
’98, New Fairfield, CT—“Underwater Basket-weaving.”

Layout by Alexander Ernmett Christensen

. ........ . . . . . .

nnonnapaanas

     

OI
OmarVannoy, ’98, Manassasﬁ
VA—“Hammers and Nails—without-'
the work.”

Dave Lupo, ’96, Kinnelon,
NJ—“A six-credit class that meets
once a week.”

 

 

 

 

Sororities face o

 

t‘\

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi News Editor

 

F\ I

in Derby D ays comp
compete in a wide range of activities.

At the conclusionof each competition, points are awarded

 

 

Sigma Chi’s Derby Days kicked off on Monday with the
band Leftover Salmon at Zollman’s will conclude this
Saturday, April 22, with the crowning of this year’s Derby
King and Queen.

The third annual Derby Days, sponsored by Sigma Chi,
brings fun and games to the first week of Spring Term 1995.

“The main goal of Derby Days,” according to Sigma
Chi’s program, “is fundraising for charity.” Among other
local charities to benefit from the event’s winnings, Special
Olympics is the main cause for which the event raises
money.

In the spirit of fundraising and good times, Derby Days
offers the four sororities on campus the opportunity to

according to each sorority’s ﬁnishing position.

Tuesday brought a touch football match similar to intra-
mural football. The championship, which was played above
the law fields, concluded with the victory of Kappa Alpha
Theta.

The Banner Contest on Wednesday, along with the
scavenger hunt on Thursday, offered more opportunities for
the sororities to compete with each other.

Friday ’s Crack-Ups, a new event for Derby Days, awards
points to sisters who “can make a Sigma Chi laugh in any
fashion” deemed by another sister “suitable.”

Derby Days concludes Saturday with Field Day, which
will take place at Zollman’s at 2:00 p.m. Events scheduled
for Field Day include a 5-legged race, a sack race, tug-of-
war, volleyball matches, and a wheelbarrow race.

It’s not only the sorority with the most points who will
emerge from Derby Days a winner, however.

Sigma Chi has pledged five percent of all money raised
throughout the event to Special Olympics of Rockbridge,
Allegheny, and Bath Counties. The remaining amount will
be divided among the sororities, with 20 percent going to the
sorority that earns the most points, 15 percent for the second
place sorority, 10 percent for the third, and five percent for
the fourth.

In addition to Greek fundraising activities during Derby
Days, Domino’s Pizza has promised to donate 7.5 percent of
all pizza sales during the week to local charities.

Derby Days offers campus sororities the opportunity for
friendly competition, with local charities beneﬁting in the
meantime.

TAFEL, from page 1

was noncommittal on the subject of gay
rights. Instead of giving up on the Republican
candidate, Tafel arranged a meeting with can-
didate Weld to discuss items of concern to
Massachusetts’s gay community. Following
these discussions, Weld admitted that he had
not taken a strong stand on these issues only
because he had not thought about them in any
detail before. Weld took strong stands for gay
and lesbian rights, education and support for
gay teens, and other issues of concern, and is
now considered “the most progressive gover-
nor in the country on gay issues,” according to
Tafel.

Following Weld’s election, Tafel was named
director of the state’s Adolescent Health Pro-

    
   
   
  

The BEST in
W&L Sportswear.
  featuring

15 W. Washington St.
4-64-3000

1-800-474-0056

gram, where he helped to develop_nationally
recognized support programs for gay and les-
bian teenagers in Massachusetts’s schools.

Similar efforts have been made to alert and
educate Republicans about gay and lesbian
rights issues by the Log Cabin Republicans,
Tafel’s group, notably with such gay-friendly
Republican politicians as New York City Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani, Los Angeles Mayor Richard
Riordan, and New Jersey Governor Christine
Todd Whitman.

Now Tafel is a critical link in lobbying the
103rd Congress, the first Republican Congress
in 40 years. Traditional lobby groups such as
the Human Rights Campaign Fund and the
National Gay and Lesbian Task Force have
found themselves limited in their access to
Republican politicians because of a perceived

« Do You Want VISA 8. MasterCard redit Cards?

Nowyou

credit mrds..."ln

can have two at the moat
accepted credit cards In the \Ior‘|d...VlII0 and Muterardﬁ
your mine.’ EVEN IF’ YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE B830 ‘IURNED DOWN BERDREI

YIIJR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING!

tendency to ignore or demonize Republicans
and concentrate their efforts on Democratic
lawmakers, who used to control legislation and
the balance of power on Capitol Hill.

Tafel describes the Log Cabin Republicans
as performing a “mediating role” between the
gay community and the Republican lawmakers
now in power. For instance, while many lobby
groups were pessimistic about the chances for
the renewal of the Ryan White Care Act, which
provides AIDS funding, Tafel’s group lobbied
the chairpersons of the relevant committees in
each house, resulting in the renewal of the Ryan
White Act being made the first priority of each
committee. Tafel was also invited to testify
before Congress on the Act.

Tafel feels that the gay community’s ten-
dency to put all of their political eggs in one

(Democratic) basket has resulted in a
marginalization of gay activists in politics.
Democrats take their support for granted, while
Republicans do not appeal to the gay commu-
nity because they feel it is a vote that cannot be
won. Tafel contends however, that Democrats
such as Bill Clinton have turned their backs on
gay and lesbian issues once in office, while
Republicans such as Riordan, Weld, Giuliani
and Whitman have reaped substantial political
benefits from courting this crucial swing bloc
and taking their issues seriously, benefits not
just measured in voting, but in campaign sup-
port and fund-raising.

In 1994, studies showed 1 in 3 gay or lesbian
voters voted Republican. In fact, the Republi-
can “Contract with America” was designed,
according to Tafel, speciﬁcally not to exclude

PIC1$1311‘-Z1$1$ZZII$3$ZA2

Curus CARD: Box 22113115. Ilouxwooo. FL 33022 :

aedand

 IwnntVlSAOIMAS’I'ERCARD0 Credit :

Qrdsappmved Irnmedlatcty. 100% IIIIAIIANTIIIII I

Interested in writing for
the ‘Phi ?

Come to the University
Center on Tuesday nights

at 7 pm!

  

Mail’ Order 

   

Callday
IIEIHIEHEIIEEEEHEEII.

 

HAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

SRYDIVE V€R9iN IA!
Train and make your first parachute
jump in one day. Skydive Virginias
staff has 30+ years instructional expe-
rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-

your debts Into one I

. , easy-to-mnage pa ent.

Badcreditnoproblern.AI.I.acceptr;-dbasedon
Fasrllurlsiusrhfunuzcnuhuvlt

0,-nigh; 1-305-537-3617, (24 HR RECORDING)

for your FREE APPLICATION or write :

BOX 545. HOLLYWOOD. FL 33022

I

I

I

I
I I
VISAS and McsterCud0 the credit cards you I |
W : mm :
‘“‘".‘i¢.‘"1°.L.°‘.‘7‘.“a”r.§.§'i‘a'.‘sZ'é‘..‘T*.‘é“u’i”..3‘. - ADDRESS -
REPAIRS-ANQTO norm voun cm-zorr RATING! : CIIY STATE _. ZIP :
gnlﬂﬁg In turn downs! I PHONE , $5" I,
museum Ito credit checks! I SIGNATURE I‘
,“g3l\|:,¢¢o  '9. SGCIIPIU deoositl ' mrr.~uucac--uuuuqumumaeu-ndunneioimrnumnm-tn. '
g\|O'=“'I 9 S . - I vnuiungnsmua trlliculrtrulvtskus-A.IrIr:IrIIVlSA'..hnnIIom| I

at can rm: courou roruw . __ ,,

I "I

   
       
        

topay.

       
   
 
  
  
 

 

Term

ititions to b eriefit charity
wiﬁ°.:t1)trrl_rIr1c;aty;l::1iVgll;te1s b:r;dca:)E:llman’s, From Good Homes,

Derby Days

 

FOR THE BENEFIT OF SPECIAL OLYMPICS

Washington and Lee University

gay and lesbians who might be attracted to the
conservative message of deregulation, smaller
government and government accountability.

Tafel said the key is for gay and lesbian
Republicans to take a stand in their own party,
one he says was founded on the basis of less
government interference in people ’s lives. Tafel
pointed out that the only reason the religious
right has had so much inﬂuence on the Repub-
lican party is because they just plain showed up
at local meetings and made their presence known
in Republican primaries.

He said that even a relatively small gay
organization like his has been able to have an
impact as well by making its presence known at
the grass-roots.

“I know I give them a headache. But we’re
not going anywhere,” said Tafel.

' t

\\\

  

   

 

ILexington’s

Ilively bistro
I & outdoor
patio

Breakfast Lunch
Candlelight Dinners
Fine Wines Imported
Beers Cappuccino
Espresso Homemade
Baguettes & Croissants
Outrageous Desserts

Harbs

 
19 W. Washington St.
703/464-1900

——\—.————————————————————————————————————

‘I

Y

 

 

  

 ATHLETES THIS  
   THE WEEK

 atIIS‘l'BGlBtWEEK  
MEANSLOWPRICES!  

 

 

   
   

   

  

 

   
    

   

 

   

 Q .. - All Natural Hunter LAST W EEK
at
V.
_ .. .   , Marilyn Baker‘  Andy Dutton
~ ‘ ‘V '. Women's Tennis Men's Lacrosse
 I  HELPWANTED TIF 0
Selected Varieties Presidents Choicﬁ Men/Women earn up to $480 u  e t S
V Toppmlg _  Lemon  weekly assembling circuit $4 99 T_Sh.l_t B h .
  _3 oz  oz boards/electronic components ' 1 S ' “X 0ne> get t 6 2nd half Prlce
_ _ at home. Experience um,eC_ 30 % off boots - Tennis shoes and sandals excluded
  essary, will train. Immediate All Jeans are $10.88
g I Opeglfilgsl 120):201;gE)0<7?:1114é:1f€a- Select Denim Shirts are $10.88
a - - _
rbuﬂimfllr    Ext. 102C. 17 S. Main St. 463-9730 Hours: Mon-Sat 9:30-5:3p
I 0 _ 0
~- -* ‘T’ ' l k M T Tgiekmg  Apartment for Rent
wice fiber at
a e  ’ 3 West Preston
Downstairs
‘'1 7"  Apartment
Within Walking
18 25 _ Distance of W&L
4 13 5 Hardware, Paint, and Related Items Campus
o.z' Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. can 261-6478 After
  zefatﬁ-59 ﬁzzms E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 V  P M
Eggs doz.  Tea gal. 7 9’:
, Selected Varieties

" Dole

. mea le

. /

20 oz. " '
4 Soft Drink Feature If you are Interested In a posltlon on a state
delegatlon, Contact the State Chalr below.
ALABAMA - Bryan Terrell NEVADA — Steve Osborn
It ALASKA - Nova Clarke NEW HAMPSHIRE - David Meeker
c°RN?g;gffé_coB I3 ARIZONA - Ruth Henry NEW JERSEY - Marcus Rayner
,,,,,,,,,,___Mm *. ARKANSAS - Jim Felton NEW MEXICO - John Harper
, 3 CALIFORNIA - Tim Jenkins NEW YORK - Mark Tobias
‘,3 COLORADO - Lee Miller NORTH CAROLINA — Laura
_ ,  CONNECTICUT - Glenn Miller Howell
' ' J “ ' ' ; DELAWARE - Jim Wilson NORTH DAKOTA - Jimmy Dodson
" ‘“"’°°‘i°=‘=”*":"*’3'="5’"""E'°°° FLORIDA - V'ctor'a K ' OHIO Kr’ t R
" """ ""”"" "“""’/5 7*’ Caffeine Free Caffeine Free Diet 1 1 unipuns _ ls en ay
’ . GEORGIA - Steven Fanning OKLAHOMA - Robert Mead
Buy one 4 ct pkg_ of Cake 0]‘ Diet HAWAII — Todd Denbo OREGON — John Brannam
r 5 IDAHO - Zach Lee PENNSYLVANIA - Lathrop Nelson
 S n  ILLINOIS - Preston Came RHODE ISLAND - Chris Pugsley
on The Cab  INDIANA — Steve Frame SOUTH CAROLINA — Chris
, A t O IOWA - Margaret Fitts MacNaughton
nd Ge ne  KANSAS - Greg Pimentel SOUTH DAKOTA - Tim Zink
cans KENTUCKY - Andy Shapira TENNESSEE - Gil Uhlhorn
LOUISIANA - Will Elkins, Sarah TEXAS - Justin Teltschik
'( ‘ Brombacher UTAH - Tiffany Gagliardi
Soggfg 3°35’ 2/ 0 ﬁr'gfgnG'a"' MAINE - Alison Pilgrim VERMONT — Graham Frey
coffee 11 5 oz Vegetables 10 oz. MARYLAND - Alison Beard VIRGINIA - Melissa Byrd
* cymbidiu; ' ' Harris Teeter’ MASSACHUSETTS - Jen Horne WEST VIRGINIA - Ray VanMetre
orchid  sour 4 MICHIGAN - Megan Fernstrum WISCONSIN - Kate Honeycutt
cofsage __ea_ 2 cfeam 3 oz MINNESOTA - Eric Reuther WYOMING - Dave Galbraith
In . . . MISSISSIPPI — J .D. Kritser DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA - Chris
PI‘ 1095 Eﬂect'V9_ Through AP", 13: 1995 MISSOURI — Ben Whitman Dalton
Onljlfl/J/:sFlre;hrifeATjhEﬂl§Ztlll(J'<‘i‘Igduzgntﬁgg.ﬁoIl:r‘Slol;d]T€i>p3L1l?erE%e Gladly Accept Federal Foou Stamps. MONTANA ' Mason New PUERTO RICO ' Brian OWCHS
‘ an NEBRASKA - Tim Moore

 

  

Last Week:

Gou-‘ - 1st at Lynchburg Invitational .

BASEBALL - W, 11-10, L, 9-6 at Hampden-Sydney,
~ L, 17-4 to Lynchburg

WIACROSSE -L, 18-6 at William Smith, W, 11-10 at Roanoke
MLACROSSE - L, 14-11 to Franklin and Marshall

W'I‘£NNis - W, 8-1 at Sewanee, W, 9-0 to Hollins

MT:-:NNis - L, 7-0, to James Madison

PAGE 10

    
  
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

By KEITH GRANT
Phi‘ Staff Writer

Two months before ofﬁcially
taking over his new job, new
head basketball coach Kevin
Moore has lofty expectations for
his Generals.

Moore was named the
program’s 20th coach April 4
by W&L athletic director Mike
Walsh.

The department’s search in-
cluded over 180 applicants.
“[Moore] has a unique blend
of enthusiasm, successful head
coaching experience and com-
mitment to Division III athlet-
ics,” Walsh said. “We are
pleased to name him as our new
coach and look forward to re-
establishing our competitive-

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team continued
to showcase its considerable tal-
ent over the break, as it prepared
for the ODAC championships
this weekend. The Generals
posted a 6-0 record for the past
two weeks, raising their overall
mark to a phenomenal 18-1.
The Generals began by de-
feating top-ranked Williams, 7-
2. W&L took a 2-1 lead after the
doubles matches, and then se-
nior No.1 singles player Marilyn
Baker set an example for the rest
of the match with her 6-2, 6-2
win.

The Generals also grabbed

week

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Home field and the number-
one seed is the reward bestowed
upon the women’s lacrosse after
defeating national #7 Roanoke
College, 11-10, Wednesday.

The victory gave W&L the
regular season Old Dominion
Athletic Conference champion-
ship for the second time in three
seasons. The Generals won the
tournament crown in 1992 and
’93.

Asregularseason champions,
W&L earns the right to host the
toumament’s semiﬁnals and
championship game, scheduled
for next Friday and Saturday at
the Liberty Hall Fields.

“It was something we hoped
for,” said senior tri-captain
-Nicole Ripken. “We seem to play
better at home.”

“Better” is deﬁned as a 41-13
record since beginning play on
the Liberty Hall Fields in 1989,
including 4-1 this year.

“I think it gives us a bit of an
advantage,” said head coach Jan
Hathom. “It’s anybody’s tour-
nament, but this takes the edge
off a little.”

W&L (8-4, 6-1 ODAC) beat
Roanoke for the fourth time in
five meetings.

All four wins have been one-
goal margins, something the
players would like to start doing
without.

“It’d be nice to have an
occassional cusion,” said Ripken.
“It gets nerve-wracking, but it is
a great rivalry.”

The Maroons look to pick up
the toumament’s second seed
when they face Randolph-Ma-
con on Saturday, a likely semiﬁ-
nal preview. Lynchburg, the lone
ODAC team to defeat the Gener-

als, will be fourth.

W&L jumped out to an early
4-2 lead at Roanoke, but their
rivals stormed back to take the
lead.

The Generals managed to not
panic and fought back for a 9-7
lead at halftime.

.... .... .......-.... .....-.»....y.--.2.-.......-.....« mm.

t....._r.... n.-an ~..,.

3

("Little ittittg-tum iﬂlﬁ

PORTS

BASEBALL. GOLF. TENNIS, TRACK, LACROSSE

ness within the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.”

I think it’s an attainable goal,”
he said. “There’s quite a bit of
talent already there.”

Sophomore Chris Couzen, one
of several returning Generals who
met with Moore following the an-
nouncement, seems to agree.

“I’m taking it one step at a
time, but I think it’s a realistic
goal,” said Couzen.

Moore will also become Wash-
ington & Lee’s new head golf
coach, a job he held during his
ﬁrst two years at Elmira.

However, the key factor in
Moore’s move to Lexington was
the availability of the basketball
position.

In explaining his desire for the

job, Moore recalled his team’s
visit to W&L to face the Generals

the Nos.3-6 singles matches,
thanks to senior Cathy Gartin,
sophomore Anna O’Connor, and
freshmen Beny Blankinship and
Ericka Shapard.

Baker’s win was her twentieth
of the season and tenth straight,
earning her Athlete of the
Weekhonors, as well as her un-
precedented fourth consecutive
20-win season. No other W&L
player has accomplished this feat
more than once.

Next, the Generals travelled to
Hilton Head, where they made
mincemeat of their competitors,
St.Mary’s (Minn.) and Davis &
Elkins, by identical 9-0
whitewashings.

Last Friday, the Generals trav-
elled to Emory, the #1 ranked team
in the South. This was a chance
for the team to avenge last year’s

Women's lax
finishes strong

“We never lost our compo-
sure,” Ripken said.

Seniortri-captain and defender
Carrie Niederer agreed.

“This year we’ve been better
about staying in games when we
fall behind,” she said. “I think we
got more angry than panicked.”

Senior Lindsay Coleman net-
ted her 110th career goal five min-
utes into the second half for a 10-
7 W&L lead.

The score tied Coleman with
Angie Carrington ’94 for third
place on the school’s all-time goals
list.

The Maroons managed to close
within a goal twice the rest of the
way, but freshman Mary Jo
Mahoney’s free-position goal with
11 minutes left proved the differ-
ence.

Sophomore goalie Brooke
Glenn stopped 16 shots. W&L’s
Athlete of the Week is just nine
saves shy of the school’s single-
season record of 169.

Earlier this week, Glenn
stopped a school-record 27 shots
in a 18-6 loss to national runner-
up William Smith.

Ripken led the way with four
goals and one assist. She trails
Coleman with 107 career goals
and is now second in career assists
with 35.

Sophomore Erika Snyder had
two goals and one assist, while
junior Cheryl Taurassi also scored
twice.

Senior Meredith Long had
W&L’s other goal in the win.

The Generals’ victory was un-
doubtedly sweet,considen'ngtheir
rough 15-8 loss last season to the

Maroons on the Liberty Hall
Fields. _

In that early season meeting,
Roanoke came, saw, and kicked
grass in the face of the Generals’
hopes for a third straight ODAC
championship.

On Saturday, the Generals host
Frostburg at 2:00 in their ﬁnal
regular season game.

Last year, W&Lbeat Frostburg
for the ﬁrst time ever, 9-8.

“They’re always athletic,”
Hathom said of Frostburg. “Hope-
fully, our team won’t consider the
season over and will come ready
to fight.."

.......-.... _...,. ......_-. . ........ . ........a.-.. .....,..,... ....

during the 1988-89 season.

“When I got back to Elmira, I
told my wife if [the W&L] job
ever opened up, I wanted it,” he
said.

The SUNY-Brockport gradu-
ate brings 122 career wins to his
new home.

The season before he took
over, the Soaring Eagles won just
seven games.

During his tenure at Elmira, a
Division III independent,
Moore’s teams took ﬁve trips
intopostseason tournaments, four
times to the ECAC, and a bid last
year to the NCAA Division III
tournament.

In his ﬁnal four seasons, they
averaged 18 wins.

In 1994, they brought home
the ECAC Upstate New York
championship in a 21-7 season.

Women's tennis continues to

heartbreaking 5-4 NCAA loss to
Emory. The team took advan-
tage of the opportunity as the
scales tipped ever so slightly in
W&L’s direction,reversing the
direction of the previous 5-4 score
for a Generals win.

'_The Generals again achieved
an early 2-1 lead after doubles, as
the 2nd doubles team of Shapard
and O’Connor won, 8-2, and the
3rd doubles tandem of junior
Julie Ayers and Blankinship won,
8-3. In singles play, W&L picked
up the three clinching wins from
freshman 2nd singles player
Natalia Garcia (6-4, 7-5), Shapard
at 4th singles (6-2, 7-5), and
O’Connor at 5th (6-3, 6-0).

Just a day after this emotional
win, which virtually assured
W&L of a return berth in this
year’s NCAA tourney, the Gen-

Moore named new basketball coach

Couzen is already impressed
with his new coach.

“He seems like a player’s
coach to me,” he said, “like the
kind of guy who enjoys what
hedoes and also wants to be close
to his players.”

When Moore made that 1989
trip to W&L, he was highly im-
pressed with the area and the
people, citing the quality of the
school as a factor in his pursuance
of the job.

Moore is returning to Lexing-
ton this weekend with his family
and expects to move into the area
after completing his duties at
Elmira in mid-June.

Moore and his wife, Shari,
have fourchildren, whom Moore
says are already excited about
the move. He will ofﬁcially be-
gin his duties at W&L on July 1.

roll

erals travelled to Sewanee,where
they breezed to an 8-1 victory.

Finally, on Tuesday, the Gen-
erals wrapped up their regular-
season matches by shellacking
Hollins College by a count of 9-
0

Freshmen Garcia and Shapard
both went undefeated in singles
play in the past week, adding
new support to Marilyn Baker’s
perennial dominence. The three
varsity freshmen will give head
coach Cinda Rankin a powerful
one-two combination of
upperclass experience and fresh-
man talent.

From any point of view, these
recent results bode extremely
well for W&L’s chances in this
weekend’s ODAC tourney at
Guilford, and in May’s NCAA
championships.

F
GENERAL

EAsEi:ALi.

W&L ﬁnally completed
a suspended game at
Hampden-Sydney on Tues-
day. The contest resumed
with the score deadlocked at
9-9. However, the Generals
plated two more runs to edge
out a 11-10 victory.

In the regularly-sched-
uled game, the Generals had
trouble continuing their mo-
mentum, and dropped a 9-6
decision to the Tigers.

W&L returned home yes-
terday to face Lynchburg,
but the Generals were anni-
hilated, 17-4.

The Generals’ log now
stands at 7-17.

\
MINICAPS

&

The Generals’ golf
squad capped an outstand-
ing week with a ﬁrst-place
ﬁnish at the Lynchburg In-
vitational on Wednesday.

Sophomore Tommy
Dudley burned up the links
with a round of 75, tying
him for medalist honors.

Dudley has now scored
below 80 in ten consecu-
tive matches.

The Generals earlier had
triumphed in the Virginia
Wesleyan tournament on
April 13, and finished
fourth at the Shipbuilders
Invitational on April 14.

The Washington and Lee men's lacrosse squa
successful year. An upset victory at St. Mary's on

season charge.

0

I’
This Week:
GOLl-‘- Mon. and Tues. at ODAC Championship
BASEBALL- Sat. vs. Guilford (2), Tues. vs. VMI
MLACROSSE- Sat. vs. Denison .
WLACROSSE- Sat. vs Frostburg St. 7

M, W'h:NNis- This Weekend in ODAC Tournament

TRACX- Sat. at ODAC Championships

APRIL 21, 1995*

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

. New head basketball coach Kevin Moore
W111 take over for the Generals this winter.

Men's lacrosse
outshoots high-
powered squads

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L’s men’s lacrosse
team, currently ranked sixth,
faced two other ranked teams
last week. The Generals knocked
off previously undefeated
St.Mary’s on the road April 12,
but were upset at home last Sat-
urday to Franklin and Marshall.

The Generals squeaked past
14th ranked St.Mary’s, 13-12,
thanks to timely goal scoring and
tough second half defense.

Senior attackman Andy
Dutton had a huge afternoon.
Dutton found the net four times
in the game, and he hit the game-
winner with close to nine min-
utes remaining in the contest.
Junior Ande Jenkins also had a
big offensive day, scoring four
times. '

Defense was also a big factor
in the victory. W&L shut down
the Seahawks’ offense for the
ﬁnal twenty-one minutes. Sopho-
more keeper Chris Testrake made

four key saves down the stretch
to preserve the win.

If statistics won games, the
Generals would have had no )-
trouble with Franklin and
Marshall. On paper, W&L won
27 of 28 face-offs, and took 14
more shots on goal. But on the (
ﬁeld, the Generals fell to the Dip— ‘
lomats by a final score of 14-11.

F&M connected on all of its
shots in the ﬁrst half and headed
into the locker room with a 10-3
lead. The Generals pulled the
game closer in the second half,‘ih
but could not fully recover.

Freshman goalkeeper Scott
Jackson was called OI.‘ in the sec-
ond half, and he played solid,
stopping nine of fourteen shots.
Ande Jenkins had another suc-
cessful day on offense, scoring
three goals and assisting on an-
other. Junior Adam Butterworth,
senior Ty Tydings had a goal and
a pair of assists. 7‘

W&L will look to get back on
the winning track at home this
Saturday. They will face
Denison, currently ranked 12th.
in Division III.

Photo by Betsy Grren, Ri'ng- Tum Phi

d has battled its way toward an extremely

April 12 has highlghted the Generals’ late

 

