w.é.u~Jt~;I’»l9."“iﬁ‘é 3. ‘NW mwurasrrv
l..l'..’>t'Pl\9I'i.’£)!r:, 1,7,1; yam

  iii -z996‘“““’

91/[INS OVFP

@DOfID W179’ |2fV|fWf|%’

Spring sports

get fully
underway

A 2‘:
1

VOLUME 95, NO.,15/

~ . Broadway

  comes to
3* W&L

BY CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

Last Wednesday night, eight stools and a bare
stage provided the background for a moving reading
Iof the first half of Tony Kushner's award-winning
‘play Angels in America.
‘ K The play has won much acclaim from the dra-
imtic world, receiving both a Tony Award and
Pulitzer Prize and came to Washington and Lee
through the talents of the drama department, and was
sponsored by the Society for the Arts.

In front of an audience of nearly ﬁfty members of
the W&Land Lexington community, students Aaron
Brotherton, Arienne Bryant, Jeanne Dillon, Mandy
Irons, Joe Merlino, Denis Riva, Dan Tipton, and
Elizabeth Weaver breathed life into the characters
who populate Tony Kushner's play.

The play explores the difficulties encountered by
members of both heterosexual and homossexual
relationships.

The characters themselves, amidst casual conver-
sation, raise profound and sometimes deeply dis-
turbing questions about the human condition.

Instead of offering a distinct resolution, the play
ends abruptly; an angel approaches and the lights
fade.

The audience lingered in DuPont Gallery follow-
ing the play, and compliments abounded towards all
those involved. -

Compliments were also directed, deservedly, to-
wards members of the Society of the Arts in general
and the chairman in particular, senior Jon Van Dyke.

The Society has brought many alternatives social

‘ 1 events to campus this year including acoustic coffee-
Ihouses, poetry readings and ooffehouses, as well as
it fine arts gala this spring.

, :_ Interested students need only look as far as cam-
,4" is bulletin boards to ﬁnd out about events yet to
 ame.

I
I‘
I
k

WASHJNGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Une Soiree Doremus

In just a few short days, the FD Committee will have trans-
formed the gym into the city of love. This week construction
moved into the gym from the boiler room and the Pavilion.
The Phi wishes everyone an exciting and safe Fancy Dress.

Executive Committee Big Four
elections to take place Monday

By EMILY BAKER
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee students will elect
the leaders of next year's Executive Commit-
tee on Monday.

Voting for EC President, Vice-President,
Secretary, and Student Conduct Committee
Chair will take place around campus.
Speeches will be held in Lee Chapel at 5 p.m.
in the Commerce School and will also be
aired on Channel 2 Sunday night at 7 p.m.

E.C. Secretary
Candidates
Graham Frey '96A

to keep the school and the Honor
System on an even keel.
important to have elected offi-
cials who have been here for
three years."

portant that the students keep
informed of the E.C.'s deci-
sions and feel that it is their
process.

Rayner's qualifications
include "my experience as
Freshman E.C. representa-
tive and my strong desire to
see the traditions of the
school remain.

'‘I will work strongly with
the other members of the

E.C. to make sure that the
Honor System stays as

"As secretary I would attempt

It's

‘'1 think W&L's at a transition
point. It's important to
have a strong honor code

EC. President

Candidates
picture

 BenediCt,  

"I hope the Honor Sys-
tem can continue to be strong
in a time when contempo-
rary culture doesn't really

strong as it always has

and to remember ‘he been, ifnot stronger."

things that make W&L
what it is.

"I feel the best way to
give back to W&L is to
serve on the Executive
Committee."

Frey is a student ath-
lete, a dorm counselor,

Student Conduct
Committee Chair

Candidates

Madeline White

aspire to those values. I
would like to lead with some
of those broader values in
mind."

Benedict has been on the E.C. for two
years now as first- and second year- law
representative and has participated in 15
closed hearings. He is on the Honor Re-
Orientation Committee.

"My knowledge of the Honor System is
unique. Combined with my law school edu-
cation, I will end up providing a fair system
for students."

Benedict

Robert Nelson, '96A
Unavailable for comment

E.C. Vice-President
Candidates

Robert Turner '96A

"As vice-president I will Nelson
protect the interests of the stu-
dents. W&L has always been
student run and it should continue to be that
way."

Turner is running unopposed.

Honor System because they're scared of the
system.

principles of honor instead of instilling fear
of it in the students.

and a fraternity member. Gorham .96A
"I've served on the
committee since my freshman year.
We have been talking about creating
a better
a p p e a l s
program."
T h e
c u r r e n t
a p p e a l s
process,
s a y s
W h i t e ,
g o e s
t h r o u g h
the deans,
who usu-
ally rec-
o m m e n d
that the SCC retry the case.
"The students deserve
a more effective appeals
process. Most people
don't know this, but we
have the power to expel
a student from the uni-
versity for grave behav-
ior if the situation war-
rants it. Since we have
that power, we should
take the appeals process’
more seriously.

Amy Gorham '97A

"Most people are motivated to obey the

"I want to base the Honor System on the

"I'm working on redoing the
Honor System Orientation video
to reflect this philosophy.

"I'm making sure that we al-
ways stress in the literature that we
send to new students and incoming
freshmen these principles of honor
that shape the school."

Gorham is currently on the E.C.,
is chair of the Freshmen Orienta-
tion Committee, and
has been selected as a
dorm counselor for
the '95-'96 school
yean

White

Marcus Rayner '97A

"I've been really happy with

what the E.C. has done. It's im-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 3, 1995

Sophomores to
live on campus

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

In the fall of 1996, sophomores will be required
to live in university housing for another year.

Washington and Lee University’s Board of
Trustees passed the sophomore housing require-
ment Saturday by a unanimous vote. Dean of
Students David Howison said the requirement will
become policy beginning with next year’s fresh-
men class.

The policy will take about 100 sophomores out
of the real estate market, which will free up 25 to
50 rental spaces. Sophomore fraternity men will
continue to live in fraternity houses.

Howison held two open forums, one in Decem-
ber and one in February, to discuss the sophomore
housing requirement. When the Board of Trustees
met this weekend, Howison presented the policy to
the Student Live Committee, who passed it and
sent it to the Board of Trustees.

Howison said the policy will create a more
unified residential experience. He said freshmen
will not feel as pressured to sign contracts for
apartments and would improve the real estate
market for upperclassmen. Renters will either have
to improve their facilities or lower their prices,
Howison said. He said the policy will only affect
those marginal buildings.

“The market in the long run will be more
beneficial for the students,” he said.

The sophomore housing requirement could raise
as much as $200,000 of additional money, he said.
Howison said the administration is exploring ways
to upgrade Woods Creek Apartments and Gaines
upper-class dorms.

He said even with additional students, law
students will still be able to occupy Woods Creek.
Currently, sixty law students live in the East wing
of Woods Creek.

However, some students think the policy is
unfairto women. Underthe policy, sorority women
will be forced to live in university-owned housing
while sophomore fraternity men live in
fraternity housing.

Panhellenic president Suzanne Sharp said the
policy is biased against women. She said an infor-
mal poll found that 75 percent of sorority women
were opposed to the policy. The policy affects 100
percent of the women and only 15 percent of
the men.

“I think the university needs to find resourceful
ways of making Gaines more attractive than mak-
ing policy to do so.”

She said there is no reason for freshmen women
to sign contracts earlier in the year and should wait
until later in the year to make housing decisions.

lnterFratemity Council President Kevin Batteh
said he thinks women might not find Gaines and
Woods Creek as attractive as the fraternity houses.
He believes the sophomore housing requirement
will bring the issue of sorority housing to the
forefront.

Howison agreed. He said Panhellenic has to
decide whether it wants sorority housing or not.
When Panhellenic comes to the administration
about housing, the university will have an obliga-
tion to meet their needs.

Sharp said Panhellenic will discuss the possi-
bility of getting sorority lodges later this year. She
said the process will take several months.

Howison said that although there has been
student opposition, he said the policy will be in the
best interests of W&L’s future.

Junior Andrew Olmem disagreed.

“Once again the administration has decided to
suppress the students’ independence that has made
W&L famous.”

He said the policy will only make the deans
happy, but it will not benefit the student body.

“I think it should be the priority of Dean Howison
to foster student independence rather than to im-
prove the Lexington housing market.”

Sophomore William Haase said he understands
the reasoning behind the policy, but he thinks
people should not be forced to live in university
housing.

“The dorms can’t be that great if you have to
force students to live there,” he said. ‘‘I don’t like
the idea of forcing people to do anything. I like
choice.”

Freshman Cheryl Puzon said the policy is not
unfair to women.

“It’s guaranteed housing,” she said. “The policy
makes it easier for women to find housing and they
don’t have to pay as much.”

Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life Dennis
Manning said the policy will help to build commu-
nity. He said one of the most effective ways to
build community is to develop a sense of attach-
ment to a place.

“It [community] means sacrifice,” he said, “and
I don’t think this [policy] is a significant sacrifice.”

He said other schools have four year housing
requirements. He said it’s rare for students to have
the freedom and ﬂexibility of living where they
want to live for two years. Manning rejected argu-
ments that the policy would hurt student autonomy.

‘‘I don’t see this as being counter to the spirit of
student self—govemance,” he said,

Manning said there are times when obligation
to the university and community takes precedence
over self-interest. The policy will benefit the stu-
dents and the school.

“A sophomore housing requirement has the
potential to improve student life here. The whole
fabric of student life will be strengthened.”

photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

FD worker Jen Norwood paints a banner for the Soiree. With two days to

go, the gym has work left to be done.

I Fditorjancl 

‘ , andeover letter

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi. March 3. 1-995

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World  

U.S. Marines land in Somalia
again

On Tuesday, U.S. Marines opened the last phase of Operation United
Shield, the United Nations effort to restore democracy in Somalia. Ap-
proximately 2,000 U.S. and Italian troops have moved into prepared
fortiﬁcations along the shores of the Indian Ocean. Pakistani and
Bangladeshi soldiers who comprise the rear guard of the U. N. force that
once numbered 30,000 were scheduled to begin leaving through the U.S.
lines this week.

U.S concerned about South
African arms

The United States is concerned that the defunct biological and chemical
weapons program of South Africa will end up in the hands of a terrorist
group, according to government sources. The weapons program was
officially terminated in 1993 by F.W. de Klerk. Recently, the U.S.
government has been pressuring President Nelson Mandela to make sure
all of the weapons and research have been destroyed because intelligence
sources have reported that Libyan agents have been trying to secure
research from the defunct program.

Peso continues to struggle in
Mexico

On Monday, the Mexican stock market fell by 6.85% following last
week’s decline. Analysts claim that investors are unloading their stocks
because the government has failed to give them a clear indication of the
future of the country’s economic policy. Inflation continues to spiral out
of control as interest rates soar and the value of the currency drops.

The Nation

Balanced budget amendment
delayed

Tuesday marked the final day of Senate debate over the balanced budget
amendment. At the day’s end, supporters of the amendment were still one
or two votes short of obtaining the two thirds majority needed for passage.
Senate Majority Leader Bob Doe postponed the vote until Thursday. The
amendment, which was approved by the House last month, is designed to
keep government from spending more than it raises except in wartime. The
fate of the amendment in the Senate will be decided by Sen. Sam Nunn of
Georgia and four other Democrats who have threatened to oppose the
amendment if it is not revised to prohibit the courts from interfering with
future congressional tax and budget measures.

 

Medicare cutback expected

Senate Finance Committee chair Bob Packwood announced on Mon-
day that in order to achieve a balanced budget the Medicare and Medicaid
programs will have to be drastically restructured. Senior citizens with
greater ﬁnancial security may be asked to assume higher premiums and pay
for more services independently. Also, the entitlement programs may be
reorganized to encourage more people to participate in health maintenance
organizations. Changes are expected to be included in the budget recon-
ciliation bill in September and will likely ignite Congressional debate.

Rosa Lopez gives testimony at
Simpson trial

On Tuesday, Rosa Lopez, a housekeeper in the Brentwood area,
testified that she saw 0.]. Simpson’s white Ford Bronco parked outside of
his mansion on the night of June 12th at 8:00 p.m. and later at 10:00 pm.
This bolsters Simpson’s alibi that he was home at approximately 10:15
p.m., when Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman were murdered.
Lopez also claims to have heard men speaking outside of Simpson’s home
shortly after midnight, an hour after the former football star left his home
to go to the airport.

The State

Virginia GOP Chair to
challenge Sen. Warner’s
reelection bid

Virginia Republican Chairman Patrick M. McSweeney announced in
an interview on Monday that he may challenge incumbent Republican
Senator John W. Warner. McSweeney has accused Warner of breaking his
promise to hold off on divisive campaigning until next year. Mc Sweeney
claims that his challenge is in the best interest ofthe Va. Republican party,
which has been in disarray for the past year.

Virginia gun dealer pleads
guilty

On Monday, Paul David Petersen of Blacksburg, Va. pleaded guilty in
Roanoke federal court to conspiring to circumvent ﬁrearm laws with other
members of the Blue Ridge Hunt Club, a ﬂedgling militia. The group
hoped to use guerrilla warfare and terrorism to combat gun control efforts.
Members also wanted to circumvent the federal gun control act by
disguising gun buyers’ identities. Petersen faces up to 16 months in prison.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Bethany Bauman ‘

So much food, so little time

  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
  

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Evans Dining Hall was the site of a Food Fair on Tuesday. Students were able to sample food from around the globe
and close to home. Wandering from table to table proved to be a nice change from a typical D-Hall meal.

 
 
  

      
   

   
  

   

Class of ’62

From STAFF REPORTS

Quality in U.S. industry is the topic
of the eighth lecture in the Class of
1962 Fellowship Lecture series.

Kipling M. Pirkle, an associate pro-
fessor of management at Washington
and Lee University,will speak in North-
ern Auditorium on March 7, at 7 p.m.
His speech is entitled “Taking Care of
Business: Observations on Quality in
U.S. Industry.” It and the reception
that will follow are open to the public.

The Class of 1962 Fellowship pro-
gram was established in 1987 with a
gift of an endowment to support the
scholarship and research of the under-
graduate faculty. The Class of 1962
presented the gift at its 25th reunion “to
acknowledge its indebtedness and grati-
tude to the University for the under-
graduate education it received and to
make an expression of the gratitude in
a manner that will benefit the Univer-
sity in a substantial way.”

The funds were awarded in con-

 W&I-h

junction with an approved full-year
faculty leave research project. Upon
completion of the leave year, each Class
of 1962 Fellow presents the results of
the project to the university’s faculty
and students. Pirkle is the eighth fac-
ulty member to be named a Class of
1962 Fellow.

Pirkle received his B.B.A. and
M.B.A. from the University of Geor-
gia, and his Ph.D. from Clemson Uni-
versity. He has been at W&L since
1989, where he teaches strategic man-
agement, human resource management,
total quality management, and statis-
tics in the university’s School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics. He
taught at Old Dominion University
from 1986 to 1989, and at Furman
University from 1984 to 1986. He is a
member of the American Society for
Quality Control, the Family Firm Insti-
tute, and the Southern Management
Association.

 

moderalandlpostmodeia spanastipog 
’ A*¥4"~*.WI.’

Debicltilwili give the}e¢tare,i

   
    

      
  
  
    
      
  

  

 a;;kt’ia.1976]was nam

  *Atf’,t}1e: iftiivietsity of 

 "  graduate  and vice-chancello
{V ' . ' ':: g ; .: ,

  :§v‘¢.a.y_1>:a ,‘¢:1aas... mil 5'
kg rgviewsifand, has lectured ex;

Kelly’s Corner

On Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington

" The tradition continues ”

  
     
  

Custom-made hand tied flies and
guidedflyfishing trips availablefrom
Kelly’s Corner

COMING SOON:
Completeflyfishing line

  
   
      

AsAIways, We Provide The Best
Service For The W&L Community

463-5452 Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

      

Open? Days

 
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
    
   
  
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
      
      
 
 
 

Hot Zone aunt‘-horispieakﬁs to W&L

From STAFF REPORTS

Richard Preston, author of the best-selling non-ﬁction thriller The Hot zone
will speak at Washington and Lee University on Thursday, March 9, at 8 p.m. i 1 .
Lee Chapel. The public is invited to attend.

Preston’s books had its origin as a 1992 New Yorker article he wrote about th -V
1989 crisis at the “monkey house” in Reston, VA in which some 600 recentl ii
imported monkeys began dying from what was identiﬁed as the deadly Ebola
virus. His graphic account of what went on during the top-secret U.S. Army
mission that shut down the research facility is both harrowing and alarming — i
comes at a time when the tropical wildemesses of the world are being destroyed,
and previously unknown viruses that have lived undetected in the rain forest for _.
eons are entering human populations.

4llE41r=ﬂ41»’Z4l
Ntttttlntr it Em Mr.

  
   
 

 

   
 
  
 
  

‘r
l

‘lg.

 

V

 95

Fine cast fails

to save Bullets

I ver Br0adway’s
shoddy sc ipt

I

     

r “V

 
  
  

By KIRK StJsorvG—- 
L‘ Phi Movie Reviewer ‘K

Bullets over Broadway — ﬁt‘!

Despite receiving seven Oscar nominations,
Woody Allen’s latest ﬂick simply doesn’t live
up to our expectations.

Released several months ago, the film has
attracted little attention (it has only grossed
about ten million dollars). However, when it
received so many nominations, I decided to
give it a chance, hoping to stumble upon what
would become cult classic.

Unfortunately, Bullets over Broadway will
be remembered as little more a particularly
mundane film from a normally excellent direc-
tor.

John Cusack is struggling playwright David
‘Shayne, who is insistent that his latest script,
(“ad of Our Fathers, not be mangled by prima

onna actresses and greedy producers catering
to the lowest common denominator. He is an
artist, and he will not compromise his art for
anything.

Well, almost anything. As we know, life is
not perfect. Cusack can only get ﬁnancing from
a shady, none-too-artistic gangster, who insists
that his moll, Olive Neal (Jennifer Tilly), have
a major part in the play, a role too big for her
limited dramatic gifts.

But hope springs eternal, and Cusack man-
ages to round out the cast with a number of ﬁne,
slightly-past-their-prime actors and actresses,
including the majestic Helen Sinclair (Dianne
Wiest), a stage legend who hasn’t had a hit in
years.

To top off this volatile mix of ego and
artistry, the gangster/producer insists one of his
silent, scowling enforcers accompany Tilly to
rehearsals, to ensure that she gets treated right.
As a result, ‘Cheech’ (Chazz Palminteri) sits in
the back of the theater, occasionally threaten-
ing Cusack if he doesn’t respect Tilly’s meager
talents.

There are a number of intriguing sub-plots
that develop as the play works its way towards
a Broadway debut: Tilly falls for the leading
man, Cusack falls for the manipulative Wiest,
Cusack’s girlfriend falls for his good friend,
etc. Most importantly, it turns out that
Palminteri, far from being an unthinking brute,
is a pretty good artist in his own right. Cusack
ends up having him secretly re—write most of
the play, and critics unknowingly hail Cusack
as the greatest new talent of the decade.

As usual, Woody Allen has assembled a
tremendous cast to help him. Jack Warden, Rob
Reiner, Harvey Fierstein, and Tracey Ullman
all liven up the cast and do a ﬁne job. Similarly,
Cusack is excellent as the harried yet proud
young artist, showing a real comedic ﬂair, a
departure from his serious fare like The Grifzers.

Both Jennifer Tilly and Dianne Wiest (Par-
enthood) have been nominated for Best Sup-
porting Actress Oscars, and Tilly has a very
good performance, especially considering her
past roles in such movies as Made in America
or Johnny Be Good. But of the two it is Wiest
that truly deserves the award.

She makes the typical aging—starlet routine
much more interesting and full of life than we
would have expected from such a stock charac-
ter. Her manipulation and deviousness, com-
bined with her aging greatness and tenderness,
make a very moving, very real picture with just
the right comedic touches for this ﬁlm. Already
an Oscar-winner for another Allen picture,
Hannah and Her Sisters, Wiest would be an
excellent choice again this year.

The ﬁlm finds its downfall, though, in its
shoddy script. Written by director Woody Allen
and Douglas McGrath, the individual dialogue
and conversations sparkle with tension, humor,
and general reality. Plus, Allen shows no fear in
taking the movie in unexpected directions.

However, the ﬁlm as a whole rambles, mov-
ing in ﬁts and starts from one character episode
to another, without being a cohesive whole.
The characters aren’t developed fully enough
to drive the ﬁlm as a whole, and the result is
maddening. The picture refuses to move on its
own, so it keeps getting shoved in the back by
Allen every ﬁfteen minutes or so. Although
individual bits and pieces are enjoyable, it’s
simply annoying as a whole.

Despite some excellent scenes, commend-
able acting and the famous Allen name, Bullets
over Broadway simply doesn’t feel like a good
ﬁlm in the end. I think it will probably do very
well on network television, where its stop-and-
start qualities make it perfectly suited to com-
mercials. Until then, despite the Oscar nomina-
tions, wait till videotape — or better yet, if you’re
impatient and love comedies about the stage,
check out Mel Brooks’ hilarious The Produc-
ers, which is a thousand times funnier and
livelier than Bullets over Broadway.

Rating Scale

ﬁﬁﬁﬁr -Go buy thisassoon as itcomesout on video. It is an instant
classic. “You'll laugh; you'll cry; and maybe. just maybe, you'll
learn something about yourself."

ﬁﬁfr - Go see this ﬁlm now, while it‘s still on the big screen. lt’s
worth a few Oscar nominations and the seven bucks you'll pay if
you see it outside bexington. Overall. “Better than Cats!”

ﬁrir - Okay, so there have been better ﬁlms. Nevenheless, it is a
good example of its genre, and you should probably see it on
videotape. Still, probably “Better than Cats!"

it - It happens to be on HBO, and you're blowing off tomonow's
reading. Although your time would probably be better served on
your education, its free and you're bored. so go ahead and watch it.
E - Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed
harder, trust me, this one sucks Don't waste your time, or at
least don't waste it on this. (There's always MTV.)

By DAN ODENWALD

_ The high costs of Fancy Dress may deter some potential dates from

PAGE g

Phi Features Editor

lt’s ofﬁcial. It happens every year about this
time.

Fancy Dress mania has overtaken the Wash-
ington and Lee campus. Everywhere you go,
someone is talking about FD, hearing about
FD, or thinking about FD, W&L women are
scurrying for last—minute accessories to their
dresses, W&L men are making sure their Alvin-
Denis ﬂask is in operating order.
Freshmen are nervously anticipat-
ing their ﬁrst brush with
the “grand social event of
the South.” Seniors are
nostalgically reminiscing
about their past FD’s — the
good, the bad, and the ugly.

All the Fancy Dress hoopla is
enough to make even the goodest
of good ole’ boys or sweetest of
Magnolia queens sick to their stom-
ach —— at least, those without dates.

Yes, there are still many dateless
souls out there. Why do so many
people, described by one sympa-
thetic friend as “normal people,”
not have dates?

Depending on whom you ask, the answer
varies.

Some simply do not want to go. The cost is
rather prohibitive. When all is said and done,
FD-goers can spend upwards of $300. Tickets,
tuxedo rentals, dresses, expensive dinners, SAB
concert tickets, and spirits expenses are quite

 
 
  
  
  
  

popping the FD question.

Elaborate balls don’t appeal to some. Let's
face it, some actually prefer those obnoxious
and predictable band parties.

And what about those FD Steering Commit-
tee members? They’ve spent more time than
you can possibly imagine planning this event

. There’s a good chance many on the Com-
mittee have grown so exhausted with all the
preparation that when the ball arrives, the
thought of actually attending causes them to
vomit unoontrollably. You may roll your eyes

in disbelief, but see just how
long FD Chairman Joe
Frampton really stays at the
ball?
Unfortunately, some W&L
women don’t get asked. lt’s
possible the overwhelming
population of road cheese
present at the ball accounts
f o r this.

Why would some guys choose to
ask a non-W&Lwoman to FD? Every-
one knows that W&L girls are smarter,

more fun, more attractive, and more
sexy than any road school girl could
ever hope to be.

Yet still, a large number of girls
go unasked. Perhaps President-Elect
Elrod could issue an executive order

stating that no road school girl can be asked to
FD until all W&L women have dates.

Well, what does the FD dateless one do this
weekend?

The possibilities are as varied as the reasons
for not going.

the library dutifully studying.

A more popular alternative is to leave town
for the weekend. Washington D.C. is only
three-and-a-half hours away.

lt’s also a good opportunity to visit friends
at other schools. One could always go home
and visit the folks.

Whatever you do this weekend — be safe,
be smart, and have fun.

And remember one thing if you're one of the
dateless masses out there in W&L-land.

When this whole ordeal is over in four days,
no one will care or much less be able to recall
what you did this weekend.

/’ 2
 )3‘, g

\\

    
     

  

 

All dressed up
with no place
to go...

daunting to the starving college student.

Some choose to spend a quiet weekend in

 

Mark Mathabane paints beauty, sadness and pain

By
MICHAEL
HEWLETI‘

Phi

Staff Writer

 

As South Africa heads into the
new year with apartheid officially
abolished, the new government has
a number of challenges facing it.

One of those challenges involves

Men oftentimes physically abused
their wives or cheated on them.

More often than not South Afri-
can women had no choice who they
married.

Once lobola was paid, their hus-
bands looked upon their wives as
their possession—not as their
partners.Geli, Mathabane’s mother,
is forced to marry a man she doesn’t
love.

Her mother tells her that she can-
not marry her true love, David. In-
stead she must marry an older man.

“My mother went on to say that

She was a strict woman, very short
tempered, and ever since my father
left her she had been drinking heavily.
She would often beat me and my
siblings with aswitch if we disobeyed
her. But I was disappointed, troubled,
and hurt by her attempts to kill my
dream of marrying the man I truly
loved.”

Mathabane takes the reader into
the lives of not only his mother but
also his grandmother and sister. Tales
of abuse and witchcraft and struggle
abound in this book. His grandmother
talks about how her husband left her

the rectifying of the foranotherwoman
inferiorpositionblack while his sister,
women have held in Florah talks about
South Africa. the abuse and inﬁ-

In his new book, delity she suffered
African Women: underherhusband.
Three Generations, Descriptions of
Mark Mathabane poverty and life

looks at the lives of
three generations of
women in his family:
his grandmother, his
mother, and his sister.

In South African
culture, a man who
wants to marry a
woman must pay
lobola to the father.

Suitors paid lobola
with cows in ancient days.

Cows played an important role in
South African society; in fact, some
villages were built around cow pens.

These days, men pay for their
wives with cash money.

As Mathabane makes clear
throughout the book, women have
no rights under the lobola system.

 

Tespo (“Faith’/’) ﬂashes a grin at the camera.

she preferred I marry an older man
who had already sown his wild oats
and was therefore more likely to be
faithful."

"It’s better to be an old man’s
darling than a young man’s fool,”
she said.

''I couldn’t argue with my mother.
She had always had the final word.

under apartheid
are clearly drawn
with an honest
touch.

Mathabane has
written a fine
book. He lets the
women tell their
stories. His voice
stays in the back-
ground, bringing
their voices forth. These women’s
lives are ﬁlled with sadness and pain.
Yet, I kept marveling at their strength
and beauty. Despite all they had been
through, they still survived and en-
dured. Mathabane has given his
reader's a gift: the gift of knowing
these women, their struggles and their
successes.

Book Photo

Book Photo
A Shangaan witch doctor carrying the paraphernalia of
his profession, along with shield and spears.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3,1995

 

MIXED I\:'IE33€_‘¢II'L‘.
by Jack Ohman

 

K I-IOWS HIT I
TAIIIEIV LOW».

WHAT Tv Peon: 3»!
ABOUT AGRESSES IN

WHAT TV Peoruz gm
ABOUT ACTRESSE IN

 

| — '5 (Mg ..
@1995 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
All Rims Reserved.

 

HEIDDY FID to everyone.
Dllease. dent drink yoursellt into a
stupor. The future of America is
counting on you. -- The Dhi

  
 

SIWDIVE VIRQIN IA!

Train and make your first parachute
jump in one day. Skydive Virginias
staff has 30+ years instructional expe-
rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-
DIVE.

APARTMENT FOR RENT

2 bedroom apartment for rent in
downtown Lexington - just a very
short walk from W&L campus.

.7I'l'a¢"I/due

HARDWARE STORES "’

$187.50 per month per bedroom.
$375.00 per month for the unit.
Great Location!
Landlord pays for water -
including hot water.

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

"Peon: wuo SELECT memes / you
FOR TV TALK $HOW$.’.Z AFTER No ‘'59
THIS EIZEAK. A

  
 
 
        
   

7/;427ZE2&P0.4'Z

 w 
7wuu't««wou¢a£54awle¢

I9 5. Ecwdoqrzé Sc. '
46.5’-2742

W&L STUDENTS
Self—storage units now available.
Reserveyour self-storage area
for the summer months.

25 South Jefferson Street
behind Domino’s Pizza

Call Mrs. Brown 463-3013

Available beginning June 1, 1995.

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs.
Brown, at 463-3013 8 am — 5 pm M—F.

FOR PEOPLE WHO
THINK THERE'S MORE TO
LIFE THAN A PAYCHECK.

 

The Brothers
' If you’re a young
of Sigma N u’ man or woman looking
Lambda Chapter at a humdrum future,
’ there’s a challenging
Congrat ulate alternativethe Army.
Not just the
more than 250 skills

to choose from, but
the lifestyle. The
chance to travel, to
become ﬁt and trim and exercise your mental muscles,

Brotherjohn W. Elrod

 

on  glecﬁon as too. To do things you didn’t think you could do. To be
‘ proud of yourself and your country.
the  PTCSICICIIL And you get a pretty good paycheck, too.
Ofwashingmn 5’ 703-886-265 1
L“ U"'V”5"Y- ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN 3:?

ANNUAL FUND STAFF ASSOCIATE

Washington and Lee University is seeking a creative individual with excellent written
and verbal communication skills to fill the position of Annual Fund Staff Associate, a
one-year appointment, renewable for a second year. This position assists in the
development and management of strategies to increase involvement in the financial ,
support of Washington and Lee through the Annual Fund, a $2.7 million plus effort J
providing direct support to the University’s operating budget. Specific responsibilities
include coordination and further development of the Senior and Third Year I_.aw Pledge
Project Programs, development of strategies to increase involvement in the Annual
Fund by undergraduate and law alumni out 1-10 years, management and supervision of
various campus-based phonathon programs as well as some regional alumni phonathons.
The successful candidate will have demonstrated initiative, the ability to work within
an organized schedule of specific deadlines, and the willingness to travel and work some
evenings. Working knowledge of computers and data retrieval is a plus. A Bachelor’s
degree is required, with preference given to recent Washington and Lee graduates.
Apply. by March 17, 1995 with leter of interest and resume addressed to:

 

OT

LN

3

35

.3’

3
3

"-.'f'ui-'-'.Ii~.

Robert W. Fox
Director of Personnel Services
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

   
   
  

_____________________________________ __1

HOW TO KEEP PEOPLE'S
HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY.

6 Carry only enough cash to last the day.
Anyone who tries to borrow your last ﬁve spot
isn't a friend. anyway.

6 Label your spare-change jar “beetle farm."
Then, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled
“spare change."

6 Mark up every space on checks.
Don't leave room for someone to ﬁll in their
name and extra zeros.

0 Keep your wallet in your front pocket.
It discourages pickpockets. So does wearing
really tight pants.

6 Put your picture on your credit card.
A Citibank Photocard is tough for anyone else
to use, unless they look just like you.

 
  
 

WE'RE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.

__________________________________________________________1

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
..I

 

/5.-i ’,»—._‘-  _    g  V: —'-»*_.2- »~,_~ -, ._ .
: 4 .- . .      ~-., _,u.a,

    

For the return of
green silk Hermes Scarf E

I

Lost Friday 2/24/95 I

If found, please call :

' E. Sharman 202/508-3531'

  

5 $100 REWARD 

    
 

  
 
  
    
     

 

x.

V

‘"1

3 An Equal Opportunity Employer _ —_—_—H—ﬂ‘
‘ ‘Do You Want VISA 3. MasterCard Credit Cards? f c..?.».Ts'cZan.‘n3x'2‘io?sa’s.'u’a1yuoo’ ' .?."rE 33625 "
o\" ‘ ‘ I .
(9% Apartment for Rent“ 255 NGE .c..,,...g '§}'.‘X.I°9‘§.'3:.:1I','I'.l:.?Jf'Jfu"L°2L¢"‘.7§;‘.L“,8.‘.3'3 u   IwantVISA0/MASI‘ElCARD0Cledlt
, 3 West Preston  : c»-u--w-we  «co» 
- Downstairs ......:‘.?..*.°.."..': :.‘..':'=.'.?.'.*.'.:..::;:'.:'.:.:!.°.:."::..§..°". :
E rtment - .. "AME
Apa . EMEmEsNI§R£s—1;L_rlr'rCip(N BN1‘!-:R‘I‘2INMENT : ADD S
W1th1n Walking HOT!-ZLS—MOTEl.S—GAS-CAR RENI'ALS— "Es
%. . ru-:mns—mo'ro BUILD voun cnnorr RATING! | CITY STATE __ ZIP
. Dlstance of W&L m n PHONE SS’
Campus “mint Ito turn downs! u A . .
[0 A ‘ ‘g|I9 No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE
3 .   AfICT gg’|.I::'1¢¢::¢y. II“ 5°c“"ItY d99°5'ItI : gmem ca Int.
/tmﬂmﬂ/'0 . on “ SEND rm: c 9 AV " " "° ''"'‘’°'‘''
5-00 PM Your cnenn cums Ali: SIIIIMIIG! :

H,

 

  

_PAGE 5
'(

Ellie iliing-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

 
  
 
 
   
      
 
 

A he Dateless Wonder...

About this time every year the rumors begin to ﬂy around the
mpus. Whispers behind closed doors, when backs are turned:
1 hat do you mean, she doesn’t have a date? But, she...”
' nfortunately, highly available, beautiful, charming, intelli-
ent Washington and Lee women are left dateless every year;
1 hey are forced to go outside of the normally acceptable channels
to find escorts to the biggest party in the South. We have actually
heard W&L students bemoaning the fact they did not choose to
attend one of our women-only neighbors which surround us.
No wonder W&L women have their little prejudices against
women from all-women’s colleges; here we are, attending a
school at which the men outnumber the women two-to-one, and
yet we are not asked to the most important social event of the
year. Something is obviously wrong with our oft—1auded social
system. .
; Someone said to a W&L man, “y’all have so much power. You
' just don’t realize.” It is true. The men at Washington and Lee
5 have all the power, and use it so unwisely. At a small school such
I as this, it is truly amazing that some of the best prospects in
lanyone’s standards are left bringing their brothers’ friends or
‘their friends’ brothers, cadets, or old boyfriends shipped in from
fir away.
Qyhy this odd shortage of men? Are our standards too high? I
doubt it, somehow; though we can think of a few standard
‘excuses, eventually we run out and have to give in to the next
request. Are you afraid of our brains? Believe us, when everyone
has eaten and drunk and been merry, relative SAT scores matter
,to us less and less.

I am grasping at straws, perhaps, but something is wrong, at
least from the perspective of intelligent and lovely women at
W&L. Take another look around you, men, before desperately

‘(reaching for the available girls’ school girl. You may be sur-
prised at who is lonely and unattached, and lives only a few
meters away from you.

‘Congratulations are in order...

The trustees of Washington and Lee have selected a new
president, and have been very voluble in their support of him;
‘John Elrod was the unanimous selection of the Board of Trust-
ees, and everyone from members of student government to the
administration has been praising Elrod effusively.
g ,, John Wilson, our soon-to-be-retiring president, described
«I Elrod with the greatest respect.
“He has an infectious enthusiasm for life, learning and ideas;
he likes people, and he is a good judge of people,” said Wilson.
x“He will find himself speaking all over the country, representing
the University, and he has to reﬂect the values of the University.
He comunicates well, and that is a very important part of the job.”
Wilson also lauded Elrod’s honesty, a principle which he said
‘went beyond the honor system definition of a prohibition of
lying, cheating and stealing, but included a “courage of convic-
tions.”
Congratulations, John Elrod. If you live up to half of the
praises of the faculty and administration, you will be a great
president.

\

.,Quote of the Week...

\(“Do your parents know you’re a lesbian?” .

., A W&L woman to a complete stranger,
caught dancing (gasp!) near a few female friends

OPINION

  
       
   

 \f\V~..
I-lg, 0«‘5.~iI\C<l W\C..- 

W; cx:(bc,.~.I:3i’‘°°\J' )

\

: as  LU”-

/.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 1995

  
  
  

lYla{r)bc,,’:l: should
rlfotlk iro bet.

British Euroscepticism and America’s future

 
 
   
 

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

As is the case with so many other
international trends, the Clinton
administration’s position on the emerg-
ing European Union is inconspicuous
at best.

It is a measure of American over-
conﬁdence, no doubt, that neither our
President nor our press feel compelled
to pay much attention to the current
debate in Europe over a single cur-
rency, for example, but unquestion-
ably such questions are of vital interest
to the United States. For if it transpires
that the European Union evolves not
into a loosely bound common market,
but into a united and purposeful federa-
tion of European states, then American
pre-eminence in the world will be ef-
fectively challenged for the first time
since the era before World War One.

One of the most telling indicators of
the true state of the old US—European
alliance came just this past week, even
though, characteristically, it too has
been largely ignored in the face of
more important developments within

the LA County Courthouse. The
French, with the acquiescence (one
assumes) of countries like Britain and
Germany, have proposed that economic
sanctions leveled against Serbia be
lifted in return for that country extend-
ing diplomatic recognition to the gov-
ernments of Croatia and Bosnia. It
may not look like it at first glance, but
this proposal actually signals the total
collapse of the NATO effort to end the
Bosnian War.

Economic sanctions against the
Serbian Republic are largely the only
effective means that NATO countries
have to put pressure on Serbian guerril-
las inside Bosnia. Now it is being
proposed that such sanctions be done
away with — not in return for the end
of ex-Yugoslavia’s bloody civil war,
but simply in return for a cosmetic
gesture on the part of the Serbians in
recognizing the Croat and Bosnian
states. In simple terms, NATO and
Greater Serbia for the past several
years have been giving each other the
evil eye —and this week it was NATO
that blinked.

All this is terribly signiﬁcant be-
cause NATO is the most tangible sym-
bol of the US-European alliance that
functioned so well during Cold War.
When NATO’s resolve and effective-
ness begin to fall apart, as now appears
to be the case, this surely is a sign that

the US-European relationship is chang-
ing, or perhaps becoming increasingly
neglected or irrelevant. This is, in fact,
much more dangerous for America than
it is for Europe, because for decades it
has been

the importance of the emerging Euro-
pean Union. If it is the goal of Ameri-
can strategy in the global arena to main-
tain American predominance, then we
have to face the fact in the EU we now

face the greatest poten-

the United tial threat tothat predomi-
States that ‘T C C ‘T’ nance we have encoun-
has en- tered since, well, the
joyed the The U.S. is very USSR. My point is not
role of se- - - that the Europeans are or
nior part- fqohsh to Ignore or should be our enemies.
ner in the discount the But,tobehonest,stranger
NATO al- ° things have ha , ened.
lia nc e. lmportiance ofthe If the "Unitgg States '-
E u r o p e emerglng European wants to play it safe and
haslargely Union. keep even the potential
fol l o w e d of a second European Era
the US lead. at bay, it might do well to lend a little

If the US-European relationship
begins to change, it is a fair bet that it
will change in the direction of greater
European power and assertiveness —
leaving the status of American power
in some danger of becoming eclipsed.
Moreover, if a European superstate ever
did achieve a level of geopolitical
prominence equal to or greater than
that of the United States, there is no
guarantee that US—European relations
would always remain as amicable as
they are now.

What all this means, if I may be so
bold as to hazard an analysis, is that the
US is very foolish to ignore or discount

moral support to men like British Prime
Minister John Major. He, and his fel-
low Conservatives, make up one of the
few groups in Europe trying seriously
to put the brakes on the emergence of
an all-powerful EU. Major, by seeking
to stymie at least for the moment Con-
tinental moves toward a common cur-
rency, is making a gesture toward the
old system of independent—minded and
often mutually-disagreeable European
nation-states. As the American cen-
tury gives way to the unpredictable
21st, Americans might do well to pon-
der seriously the consequences of
Major’s looming defeat.

' ~' 0 0
Clint iﬁmg-tum lﬂht
Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editor 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

‘ Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Scott Bookwalter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dan Odenwald, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

‘ Editorial Cartoonist s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickenger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MichaeI Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

it Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

~  Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson‘

' K Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

' Advertising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd, Jenni Grant

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
T Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring—tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but TheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
*1 24450
2' Telephone (703) 462-4059
i Fax (703) 462-4060

Proposed law

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

 

It’s halfway through the first hundred days of the
Contract With/On America and do you know what
your Congress is doing? This past weekend I had a
chance to catch up on all the evils of the Republican
Congress, while I was at the Free the Planet Confer-
ence in Philadelphia. (Note: If you think I am
radical, you should have met some of the people
there) There are naturally many provisions that I
disagree with; but, I want to focus on three particu- '
lars of the Contract that I find particularly appalling.

First, “The Risk-Assessment and Cost—Benefit
Act of 1995” (HR 1022). This act doesn’t sound bad
on the surface; we don’t want to spend money on
basically useless programs such as Star Wars. How-
ever, this act doesn’t apply to useless military ex-
penditures; instead, it is directed toward environ-
mental and health regulations. The basic provisions
of the act state that on any new regulations a risk
assessment must be done to determine whether the
law will cost Americans more than $25 million
annually (which works out to 10 cents a person a
year).

I am not in favor of paying any more money to
the government than absolutely necessary; but, there
are many things this act doesn’t take into consider-
ation. For example, exactly how much is a human
life worth? Is it possible to do a cost-beneﬁt
analysis when one doesn’t have a monetary value
for one of the beneﬁts? The Clean Air Act probably
wouldn’t have passed the risk assessment test.
Exactly how many people across the country are
bothered by smog? It certainly isn’t really a prob-
lem in Lexington; but, For those people who were
troubled by bad air, the beneﬁts are innumerable
both to them and to us. These people can go to work

' and breathe properly, they are also productive,

which beneﬁts all of us in a way that can’t quite be
measured. On the other side, how do we know what
the actual cost will be to us of fulﬁlling the regula-
tion. Technology is advancing every minute and the
cost of fulﬁlling a regulation may constantly be

going down. I am not an economics major, so I
realize that there are probably some ﬂaws in the
argument; but, there are major problems with this
provision. If it does pass, though, I would love to see
a cost-beneﬁt analysis done on the Star Wars —like
initiative that the Republicans were trying to pass
earlier this year.

Next on the list is HR 9, “The Job Creation and
Wage Enhancement Act of 1995”. Another great
title that makes the act seem good for America.. The
specific problems lie in Titles III-XI. The bill
requires an enormous and time and money consum-
ing process of review prior to a regulation being
made into law. There are twenty-three individual
levels that a regulation must pass. The people on the
panels on the different levels come not just from
government; but, from the private sector and com-
panies that have monetary interest in seeing the
regulation killed. It doesn’t take an expert on human
nature to determine that the private corporations are
not going to approve a bill that hurts them, no matter
its other benefits.

The other problem is naturally the number of
steps it takes to pass the regulation. The Republi-
cans have been complaining about the number of
regulation we have now, and they are just adding
more bureaucracy. I ﬁnd it sort of ironic that it is
only a twelve step process to condemn a man to
death (a man’s case is reviewed by twelve individu-
als on a jury a combination of their opinions deter-
mines a person’s future); but a twenty-three step
process to pass a law that save so many. Perhaps I
shouldn’t ﬁnd this odd since the Republicans are
planning on repealing the basic meaning of the
Fourth Amendment.

Another provision of HR 9 is the takings section.
Takings is basically the requirement that the govern-
ment repay an individual for the loss of property
value he might have suffered due to a regulation that
prohibited him from using his land in a specific way.
This provision is wide open for abuse. Suppose, I
have a piece of otherwise useless land that I decide
to build a toxic waste dump on and it happens to be
right next to a children’s playground. Now I know
that the government is going to forbid me from using
that land for such a purpose (any sane human being
would). I wanted to make some money on the land
sol announce that the regulations are inhibiting my
ability to make an honest dollar and that the govem-
ment owes me money. Under the provisions of HR

s sound too good to be true

9, I would be reimbursed despite the fact that I knew
the plan would be shot down before I started. Of
course the Republicans may be basing this all on the
perceived virtue of public-spirited citizens who would
never do such a thing.

Finally an aspect of the Contract that I take very I

personally, cuts in education spending. The contract
requires a $13 billion cut in student aid programs over
a five year period. On of the methods of doing this is
to end the exemption in paying back loans while the
student is still in school. Now realistically, it is all I can
do to have some money to live on now. If as a graduate
student I had to start paying back loans, that would end
my graduate career. I might have to then fall back on
one of the surviving social programs, like food stamps.
If we want to move into the new technological age that
Newt hypes, we need people who are educated, not in
prison. It is a known fact that people who are the
beneﬁciaries of a good education and all the opportu-
nities it provides are less likely to end up in prison.
Perhaps this is what the Republicans want, some way
to justify the increase in prison spending by making
sure there are plenty of people to ﬁll them. I would be
interested to ﬁnd out how many of the Republican
members were the beneﬁciaries of delayed student
loans and Pell Grants.

Unfortunately, the Republicans are planning on
using the money not used on bettering our generation
in expanding the military. The 1994 budget of the
military (that we know about) was $281 billion, the
budget for all Federal education grant, loan, and work-
study programs was $31 billion. One of the recent
facts that has come up, speaking of cost-beneﬁt analy-
sis is, that the cost of one F-22 is the same as the
amount of money needed to provide Pell Grants for
113,000 students, and this money will be returned in
many ways, unlike a plane that will probably be
declared out of date in a few years. Of course the
builder of the F-22, Lockheed is in Newt’s home
district-—wait, I forget Newt is against pork so that
could have nothing to do with his decision.

The next few months will be key to seeing whether
the Republicans are able to turn back the clock on what
this country has accomplished. I won’t merely be
waiting to see what happens though, I intend to make
sure my opinion is heard and I hope all of you will too
no matter which way it leans. To make sure Newt
hears what you have to say you can always use the
advance technology he promotes and e-mail him at:
geogia6@hr.house.gov.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 3,1995

  

PAGE 6

Don’t hate me because I’m beautiful

GREEN LAND
BETSY GREEN

hate

Don’! because
I’m beautiful.

Hate me because I’ve had an FD
date since November.

You all want to strangle me right
now, don’t you? I know I’m gloating,
but I can’t help it... This year’s FD
promises to be great, tres bien, even. So
with that in mind, welcome to a special

me

edition of Green Land: Betsy’s FD’

Anticipation Column.

The state of Virginia should regu-
late the week after February break as a
part of the hunting season. Hunting for
FD dates, that is. It seems that no one
can escape from the scrutiny of the
opposite sex. You should be careful,
though, or you might end up thinking
things like freshman Paul Byerly. ‘‘I
wonder if she has a date yet. Sure she’s
a Lee-Hi waitress, but it could be fun.”
Eitherthat or you’ll end up hanging out
at Shark’s looking for the Rockbridge
County High School boy with the
latest curfew.

I was lucky enough to escape all of
that trauma. Did I mention that I’ve had
a good looking, charming, fun-loving
date (he prefers to be called “Steve”)
for a really long time? I did? It irritated
you? Great, I care. In all seriousness,
though, I was really glad to be able to
avoid the turmoil of trying to find a
date. My guy friends appreciated it as
well. They knew that every time I
looked at them I wasn’t trying to guess
how they’d look in tuxes or where
they’d take me out to dinner. Mark
Tobias told me that I was one of only a
few women he could talk to about FD
without fear of violence. Most reacted
something like, “Don’t even talk to me

about Fancy Dress. Your girlfriend goes
to Sweetbriar, you traitor.”

If it makes you all feel any better, I
didn’t have a perfectly worry-free time
before FD. Since my date had to be
specially imported from Seattle, we
needed to look foraway to save money.
The answerseemed clear. I signed away
my life (okay, just 25 hours of it) to
Paducah Joe Framptom. I was an FD
contract worker.

It is profoundly ironic to me that I
did so much grunt labor and messy
work so that I can spend Friday as
glamorously as possible. With any luck
l’ll have all of the paint off of my hands
by then.

I began my contract work by selling
ads for the Playbill. I racked up a lot of
hours by talking on the phone and
saying things like, “Yes, l’ll hold, “I’ll
leave a message on his voice mail,” and
“Do you know when she’ll be back?” I
also spent a lot of time on hold. It’s a
bad situation of me since they usually
play Muzakiin the background. I start
out by humming along, then feel bolder
and start singing. By the time the per-
son I’m waiting for picks up the phone,
I’m usually in the middle ofa full song
and dance number to “Raindrops
Keep Fallin’ On My Head.”
Very professional.

A sick thing happens to you when
you become a contract worker. We are
insanely proud of tiny little details you
won’t even notice at the ball...unless
we have anything to do with it. Re-
member those little pieces of tissue
paper that were attached to your invita-
tion? I spent two hours with a hot glue
gun helping to make that possible. Ryan
Mooney, John Harding, and Tory Noto
are insanely proud of a fruit cart they
built and will probably spend all of FD
standing next to it and pointing it out
to everyone.

There is a definite gender gap when
it comes to contract work. While the
men are sweating and trying to carry
huge pieces ofthe stage (about equiva-
lent in weight to one ofthe belly danc-
ers from last year), the women are
working on papier machie and gossip-
ing about what they’re going to wear.
The guys don’t think its fair, and,
damnit, they’re right. I know because I
deﬁed my sex and helped carry those
big heavy things. The guys were im-
pressed with my toughness until I got
tired and started complaining that I
hurt my arm. Instead
of helping them lift,
I got a new job cut-
ting out twelve foot
lengths of paper to
coverthe small gym.
I pretty much rein-
forced all of their
gender stereotypes

Elrod could in-
crease his popu-
larity even more

Some of my brother’s lame friends at
Harvard started telling me how many
starving children could be fed with the
budget for paint alone. They all wanted
to know why we would take part in
such an obscene spectacle. My answer?
We do it because we can. Ask Profes-
sor Velasquez (who now actually reads
the Phi , and is hence worthy of being
mentioned in my column) and he will
explain to you the rationale for FD
based on the philosophies of David
Hume. Maybe that should have been
the topic of my latest paper.
Professor
Velasquez has fi-
nally relented and
is planning to go
to FD. Professors
at FD are cool.
They are brave
souls and will
probably be

when I started whin— ' ' ° mobbed by
ing about my paper  Jammlng wlth drunken students
cut. Sorry, guys.  and askingtogetpany
I tried. changinghis title pics taken with

My fellow FD to Elrod  them. As we put
worker Beth _ 1 their arms around
Provenzana pointed Presldente, theirshoulders we

out to me the best
thing about doing
contract work. You
get to be involved,
but you have no responsibility whatso-
ever. While Ashley Bell and Ann
Howard stressed about whether or not
it was going to rain on the stuff we had
painted, Beth and I took a break and
were simply happy to be getting
hours in.

I just read the description of the
decorations in the Playbill. If you were
trying to explain to someone what the
word “ostentatious” means, you’d do
well by just handing them that. People
at other schools are blown away by FD.

To the editor:

In our attempt to get more feedback from the
students on the Honor System, the Executive
Committee has placed boxes around campus
for your comments. Some of the most recent
comments deserve particular response.

Undoubtedly, the most difﬁcult part of this

job is finding someone guilty of an honor vio-
lation. No one on the EC thinks it is fun, no one
looks forward to a closed hearing, and no one
takes the matter lightly. This I assure you.
Having a friend withdraw after a guilty
verdict sucks. However, I promise you that the
Executive Committee will never ask a student
to leave ifwe think that you would notjudge the

students’ lives.

Interviews and

Photos by Darcey

Livingston and Yen

Nguyen

 

Nate Taylor, ’98, Ocean
View, DE—“The Sex Pistols.”

Annie Plummer, ’97, Myersville, MD, and Sadaf Moradi, ’97,
Rockville, MD—“Roxette!” _

     
    
  
            

I

/\

Global Internship
and Language
Programs

/"5

UNIVERSITY

  
 
    
    

International Programs

For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to:
Boston University International Programs
232 Bay State Road, Box Q, Boston, MA 02215 -

An equal opportunity, aﬂinnalive action irutitution

Please rank as 12. and 3 the programs in which you are most interested.
You will receive infonnation on all of our international programs.

V75'§ﬂ"i‘.}:?135.?l

617/353-9888

  

3.-1}  7

USS

Inlemship Programs

D London. England El Paris, France

D Madrid. Spain U Sydney. Australia
U Moscow. Russia El Washington, D.C.
D Beijing. China

Name

Other program:/countrie: in which I am interested:
I would like to receive information about your semester/summer programs (circle one).

Language and Liberal Arts Programs

El Belize Cl Niamey, Niger
D Grenoble, France U Oxford, England
El Haifa, Israel D Padova. Italy

El Madrid. Spain El Quito, Ecuador
El Dresden. Gennany D Venice, Italy

Street
State Zip

Home Institution

City
Phone ( I

Ulr

-_

Current Status: UFr

ElSo
2

El Sr II’ you prefer‘ call 617/353-9888. Q
I

 

Executive Committee encourages students to comment on Honor System *

same. Finding someone guilty is a painful,
grueling, and disappointing aspect of the job,
but it is nonetheless the job we have. Please
understand that our decisions are based on
careful attention to detail and facts — and that
we do not make rash decisions concerning

The EC is made up of thirteen individuals

TALKBACK

 

drunkenly slur,
“You’re so cool.
You’re so cool
even though you
gave me a bad grade on that paper.”
The hottest new people to have your
picture taken with (besides me) are
Michelle Richardson (because what
could be more fun than the Dean Of
Fun?) and John Elrod. Elrod could
increase his popularity even more by
jamming with P-funk and changing his
title to Elrod, El Presidente.

I hope everyone has a fabulous FD.
Be sure to check out the lovely lattices
I painted. And please, try not to hate me
too much.

   
   
     
     
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Big Four Practice Interviews

BigFour elections will be held
this Monday, March 6, from 8 a.m.
to 4 p.m.Please remember to vote in
from of the co—op, Leyburn, and
Law Libraries. Candidates’ speeches

Videotaped practice interviews
ill beconducted on March 15. If
interested in a practice interview,
signup for a time in the Career

will be aired Sunday night at 7p.m. Development Office.
on Cable Channel Two.
Interviews Calyx

There will be an interviewing
workshop on Tuesday, March 7, at
4 p.m. in Room 109 of the Univer-
sity Center. All students are invited
to attend.

Free 1994 yearbooks can be
picked up between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. '
in Carol Caulkins’ office.

Information Session _
Phl "V

Everyone is invited to an infor-
mation session on Thursday, March,
9, at 3 p.m. in Newcomb Hall 10B.
Hunter Applewhite ’88 will discuss
jobs in the non-profit sector. Co-
sponsered by the History Depart-
ment and Career Development

The Ring-tum Phi needs staff
members. If you are interested in
writing for the Phi, come to our l-I .
weekly meetings , every Tuesday
evening at 7:00 pm. in University

   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
 

Center room 208.

Corrections ‘

An error was made in last week’s Fancy Dress Supplement. Pi Kappa Phi’s
parties on Saturday will not be open. Sigma Phi Epsilon’s parties will also not
be open.

and Placement.

ft‘
Also, a mistake was made in the February 24 issue of The Ring-tum Phi. Kirk V
Susong reviewed the movie Before Sunrise. 

5,!

Student Body Notice

A member of the Student Body has been found guilty of a violation of the
Honor System, in that the student plagarized a Romance Languages composition
paper. That student has chosen to withdraw from the University. V

threaten people with the Honor System.We this opportunity. *
encourage all students to voice their opinions

and ask questions about the Honor System.

Talk to an EC member or leave a comment in

the suggestion boxes in the library or co-op. In Alex Cross

the next 2-3 weeks, you will have the chance to EC Vice President

that you have elected. We do not make up
“special rules” to extend our power, or intend to

o

   
   
  
 
 
  

vote or even run for positions on the Execu-
tive Committee. Please take advantage of

If you could have any band play at the
Fancy Dress Ball, what would it be?

Julia Podlas, ’95 Great Meadows NJ d R C ’ ’95 B ’ _
Houston, TX—“The Fabulous Thunderbirds.” ’ an ay “lg, , Jen cam’ 96’ Spring’TX

Dondero

Incorporated

Screen Printed Textiles   I

’

T-shirts/ Hats / Sweats I Jackets

Custom

Engraving
on
plaques

plaques & trophies
custom engraving
advertising specialties

promotional products
custom flags

17-1/2 South Randolph Street
Lexington Virginia 24450
Phone: 703 463-2618

  

   
  
   

    
 

i

“Billy Joel.”

%

r """"""""""""""""""""""""" "

HOW TO GET YOUR IOLLIES
AT COLLEGE 24 HOURS A DAY.

if

8-’

Open a tab at a diner.

Belgian waffles and cheese fries with gravy ‘'
are delicious, regardless of the hour.
*5 Visit a local court of law.
Plenty of seating. unique conversation and I
drama that improves the later it gets. .
if Be the gym night janitor. ‘ *
Work out at your leisure and never wait
in line for lat pulldowns or the erg.
* Get a Citibank Classic card. 1
For your peace of mind, operators are
on call 24 hours a day. 7 days a week.
7'

WE'RE‘ LOOKING OUT FOR YOU.“
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.

_____________..___________________________...____-_.___.....__._.l

    
 

 
  
   
     
   

i. The Ring-tum Phi, March 3, 199s Advertising 1' A5“ 7

‘ Hams1 - at K W

TheRing-tumPhi
BUY ONE GET ONE 0,,
0

  341$ wishes everyone

__ W“ a safe and happy

Regular

. E#'go Fancy Dress
fwﬂozﬁg weekend.

  5‘  Harris Teeter \ J

 lnstant
Oatmeal

125,15 oz_pkg_ £P  m1.sT_LIsTI_N<_s_: F£1::1:13.Ni

M°“’W°’."‘*“ °a"‘. “P ‘F’ $4.80 HOUSE for four students. JUNE 1= 1995 - 6 BEDROOM-
weekly assembling circuit 3 BATH VICTORIAN HOUSE

- Newl renovated with all
b d 1 Y
 sharp aciaiiofx/1:; eiziomc‘ components modern features five min- ONCORNEROFNELSON ST‘
. perience llI1IlCC- 7    - 

t r essary, will train. Immediate utesfrom class,g0od neigh- MUNSTER HOUSE CON-
-  e openings in your local area- borhood. $900/month. VENIENT CENTRAL LOCA-
Call 1-602-680-7444 703-377-2980, TION. PLEASE CALL 463-

Cheese  

4 OZ.   us
Selected Varieties co e an S

Keebler    easy-ii-“:3”:-'35l’§’p3“°é’«‘»‘€
O’Boisies

tnopmblem.Al.l.acccptedbasedonab topay.
rfasrllzun IsJusrAPuou¢Au.Ainv! B
6 oz. Pkg.
Buy One 16 Oz. Pkg. Of

' caudayo,-mghtl-305-537-3517, tzri iiii RECORDING)
Brooklyn Bagel

for your FREE APPLICATION or write :
. -BOX 6115. HOLLYWOOD. FL 3302
Fettucini Bo s Plain
. Alfredo a els

And Get One And et One

 ree ree

Selected Varieties
Juicefuls
Candy

  t ..   4 Oz. Bag

Buy One 16 Oz. Bowl Of Buy One 10 Oz. Pkg. (If
Shedd’s Harris Teeter
Country Breakfast \.

. Crock Sausage Links
at And Get One And et One

'1
;  or last relielilirom the nagging ache of taxes, we As the nation's largest retirement system. We Oller

_ A ' _ I recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SR/\s are tax- a wide range of allocation choices—fi‘om TlAA's
Z‘    Ct:   -  - 5 deferred annuities designed to help build additional traditional annuity, with its guarantees of‘ principal
‘ ‘   ‘  between living and living wr// alter your working years accounts of‘ CREF's variable annuity. \Vhat's more,
I P E are OVER our expenses are very low,° which means more ol‘
St r e  '5 Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from your money goes toward improving your future

‘V current taxable income, so you start saving on taxes To find out more, call our planning specialists at
    right away. What's more, any earnings on your SRAS l 800 842-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA
 are also tax-deferred until you receive them as income. information kit, plus a free slide-calculator that shows
_ That can make a big dillercnce in how painful your tax you how much SR/\s can lower _l/UH/‘ taxes.
  9 g hm is every -year’ Call today—it couldn't hurt.

12 Pk. 12 Oz. Cans
“"_ i
  Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

 
  

  
   

  

K

    
 
   
     

  
 
  

  
  
 

      
 
        
 

  

   

      
   

  
  
      
    
 

-.;, u"?'."..”“
- ' "I.-
" $“3$@
_, ,_.;. ‘J 
. ,1‘

. Q ‘O    M
E " |u1cefuls i 
if ASSORTED FRUITS ;

\
'  ARTIFICIALANDNATURALFLAVORS

 FILLED HARD CANDIES
‘ ' uicv CENTER

    
  

I

assets-—m0ney that can help make the dillierence and interest, to the seven diversified investment

if Eqii[l[(.v F1 (7

your salary on a pre-tax basis. That lowers your financial health.

and A ly A. I /Cu/{rye Rtf

Prices Effective Through March 7, 1995

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, March 1 Through March 7, 1995

© /995 Tmcbmr ]Il.1lIl‘llIl('I

Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food btamps.
§ “Slmirlii/7)c7'l’imriv//1.11/riiim’/tiilf/it llil/_|/Jlit, W94: Lipper Analytical Services, lnc., Li/r;It'/‘-/}i'/'i'i'/ii/'.iixliiiilyliivil [)1]/ll, 1994 (Qiiai'iei'ly)- CREF
certilicates are distributed by TIA. - REF lndividual and lnstitutional Scr\'ici:s. lnc. For more complete inliormation, including charges and /
expenses, call 1 800-8422753, ext. 5509 tor a CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully l)€ll.)l‘€ you invest or send money. /
‘.

‘ l

 

 

 

Last Week‘:

BAsr-:nAu.- MWC 8,8 W&L 3,4
Liacaossr:-W&L 19 MWC 3

MI-:N’s T£:NN1s- Davidson 7 W&L 0; Averett 5 W&L 2
INDOOR TRACK- (M) 3rd at ODAC Indoor Championship
(W) 2nd at ODAC Indoor Champioship

PAGE 8

  
  

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

 
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
 
 
   
    

    

The ﬁrst signs that baseball
season had arrived occurred last
weekend when the temperature
heated up to nearly seventy de-
grees, but the Washington and
Lee baseball team was still at-
tempting towarrn upasit dropped
both ends of a doubleheader to
Mary Washington, 8-3, and 8-4,
in Fredricksburg, Virginia.

The two losses to the highly
rated Mary Washington squad
sank the Generals’ season record
to 0-4.

The Generals had little prob-
lem creating offense in the two
games, hitting .300 as a team in
the ﬁrst game and .375 in the

S

@112 Iﬂing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

BASEBALL, TRACK, TENNIS, LACROSSE

Baseball continues slow start at MWC

second. However, pitching woes,
in the form of 18 walks, proved
too much for the offense to over-
come.

Despite the losses, head coach
Jeff Stickley was satisﬁed with
the team’s overall effort.

“For the most part, [was
pleased,” he expressed. “We
swung the bats well, but just gave
up too many walks.”

W&L jumped off to a quick
start inthe first game. Senior
Geren Steiner ripped a single,
and crossed the plate on junior
Mark Sappenﬁeld’s two-out in-
ﬁeld single, giving the Generals
a 1-0 advantage in the ﬁrst.

The lead would not last long,
as the walk parade started in the
second inning. Junior starting
pitcher Graig Fantuzzi had

trouble ﬁnding the strike zone,
walking six batters in his three
innings of work.

Mary Washington took full
advantage of the walks, scoring
twice in both the second and third
innings, putting them in front, 4-
1

Junior Todd Garner relieved
Fantuzzi, but Garner got knocked
araound in the fourth, issuingfour
more free passes, as Mary Wash-
ington rung up four more runs to
pad its lead to 8-1.

Sophomore Rob Boston was
ﬁnally able to tranquilize MWC’s
bats, as he did not allow a hit in
the ﬁnal two innings. The Gener-
als attempted a late rally as they
scored two runs in the top'of the
seventh inning to close to 8-3,
but it was not nearly enough as

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

Both indoor track teams
showed up ready to make an im-
pression Saturday as the women
finished second behind
Lynchburg and the men were
topped only by Lynchburg and
Bridgewater.

For the men, the distance
events provided much of the spark
as Taylor Shultz, Grant Cowell,

Jason Callen, and Will Olson all
turned in stellar performances.

Shultz took second place in
the 1500 meter run while Olson
won the 3000. Grant Cowell was
second in the 800 and Jason
Callen took ﬁfth in the 800 and
3000.

The charge continued in the
pole vault as Harris Morrison was
the ODAC champion with a vault
of 14 feet, a full foot and a half

above the second place competi- '

tor from Lynchburg.
In the shot put, freshman Omar

Monheim took third with a ca-
reer best 39’ 11”.

W&L’s 3200 meter relay
squad also turned in a victorious
perfonnance, ﬁnishing 11 sec-
onds ahead of second place East-
ern Mennonite.

On the women’s side, the team
paced by senior captain Sue
Deutsch who brought home ﬁrst
place ﬁnishes in the 1500 and
3000 meter runs. Deutsch was
also a member, along with Nat
Messmore, Maren Wright, and
Kim Herring, of the winning 3200

Mary Washington closed out the
victory.

Washington and Lee was once
again victimized by big innings
in the nightcap. After a scoreless
first inning, MWC exploded for
five runs against W&L starter
junior Matt Ermigiotti in the bot-
tom of the second,although just
two of those runs were earned.

The Generals began chipping
away at the 5-0 deﬁcit, tallying
three runs to slice the MWC ad-
vantage to 5-3 in the sixth. But
once again, MWC ripped off a
big inning in the bottom of the
sixth.

Freshman Chris Pu gsley, who
had replaced Ennigiotti in the
fourth inning, was nailed forthree
runs in the sixth, giving MWC an
8-3 cushion before senior Bates

meter relay squad for the Gener-
als.

For her effort, Deutsch was
named runner-up for the meets
most outstanding performer
while scoring the fourth most
points in the meet.

Also taking ﬁrst for the Gen-
erals was the 1600 meter relay
team.

In the field, Sarah Gilbert
placed in three events. The se-
nior took third in the high jump,
fourth in the 55 meter hurdles,
and sixth in the triple jump.

Athletes of the Week

Photo

  Unavailable

Photo by Betsy reen, The Ring-tum Phi
Sophomore Stephanie Sterling and senior Sarah Gilbert ﬁght for position in a preliminary heat of the 55 meter hurdles. The women
took second overall in the meet at VMI.

Track squads turn in solid meets

 V’ 

This Week:

LACROSSE- at Hampden Sydney
BASEBALL-VS. W. Va. Tech

Brown struck out the ﬁnal batter.

Facing another ﬁve run deﬁ-
cit, W&L once again attempted
to battle back. The Generals
plated a run and then loaded the
bases in the top of the seventh,
but Mary Washington escaped
the threat and held on for the 8-4
triumph.

Stickley attributed the pitch-
ing problems to a lack of experi-
ence.

“We hadn’t played a game in
a week and a half,” he pointed
out.

Despite both ending up as los-
ing pitchers, Ermigiotti and
Fantuzzi had no trouble from the
other end. Ermigiotti went 4-6 at
the plate in the twinbill, helping
to maintain a fantastic .727 bat-
ting average.

Coach John Tucker was
pleased with the performance.

“I think we did as strongas we
could have without two All-
Americans [Amy Mears,
Josephine Schaeffer] and a Na-
tional qualifier [Sandra
Holmes],” said Tucker.

Men’s coach Norris Aldridge
was also pleased with his team’s
performance.

“I thought that overall we ran
as well as we could have,” he
said. “We’re looking forward to
outdoor and hope we do well.”

  

Harris Morrison

Sue Deutsch

MARCH 3, 1995

Fantuzzi had been mired in a
slump earlier in the season after
tearing up opponents at a record
.482 clip in 1994, but he ap-
peared to regain his stroke fol-
lowing a 4-8 day.

The Generals’ scheduled con-
test at Shenandoah on Tuesday
was rained out.

Washington and Lee will host
a three game series with West
Virginia Tech‘ this weekend. A
single game at 3:00 on Friday
afternoon will be followed by a
double header on Saturday, which
begins at 1:00.

“West Virginia Tech hits the
ball pretty well,” Stickley com-
mented. “We need to put the ball
in play and make them play de-
fense, and cut down on the
walks.”

opener

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s lacrosse team
started the 1995 season in prime

ton College 19-3 in their season
opener.

one starter from a team that ﬁn-
ished number eleven in the coun-

enough to claim a third straight
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championship.
Wednesday, W&L scored the
ﬁrst nine goals of the game in the

ton.

Junior Ande Jenkins scored
four times and assisted on three
other goals to lead the scoring.
The attackman led the team with
28 goals last season to earn sec-
ond-team All-ODAC honors.

Senior co-captain Scott
Mackley also netted four goals,
while junior Adam Butterworth
found the net three times.

Andy Dutton, Shane
Mclaughlin, and Duncan Slidell
scored twice each.

In goal, the Generals return a
starting goalie for the ﬁrst time
since 1991. Sophomore Doug
Gubner stopped six shots, allow-
ing just two goals, in three quar-
ters worth of work.

Gubner took over the starting
duties early last season and saved
over 58 percent of the shots he
faced.

With such a solid returning
squad, the 1995 Generals could
be the best of coach Jim
Stagnitta’s six-year tenure.

form, crushing Mary Washing-

The Generals return all but

try last year, and appear strong

Lacrosse ’
cruises inf‘  

7

rout played at Mary Washing- .

I!

Since arriving in 1990, .

Stagnitta’s Generals have aver-

aged a 10-4 record each season,.

earning three ODAC titles and
two trips to the NCAA Tourna-
ment.

The ‘95 version has earned a
preseason number seven ranking
from College Sports Magazine,
two spots behind conference ri-
val Roanoke College.

However, W&L has beaten
the Maroons each of the passed
two seasons for the ODAC cham-
pionship and will have the home-
ﬁeld edge when the two meet at
mid-season.

The ODAC season will begin
Saturday when the Generals
travel to Hampden-Sydney for a
1:00 post-Fancy Dress battle.

W&L hopes to avenge last
year’s early season loss to the
Tigers,theironlyconferenceloss
of the season.

The following weekend, the
action comes home to Wilson
Field in the form of the second-
annual Washington and Lee
Tournament.

The Generals face ODAC?

opponent Randolph-Macon on
March 11 at 3:00, following the
opening game between Trinity
(CT) and Swarthmore, a partici-
pant in last year’s tournament.

The two winners will meet
the next day at 3:00.

Overall, the Generals have one
of their most difﬁcult schedules
ever. Nine of their 14 opponents
were ranked in the Division III
top 20 at some time last season,
including three currently ranked
in the top five by College Sports.

The road to the NCAA Tour-
nament will be a rough one for

the ‘95 Generals,butcould prove -

to be their most rewarding.

var

‘R

‘xx

 

