      

“«

.2’ ".'.“v='.". raw‘ :4,» av; iafun.

f .; ‘if-W5

Rebekah Prince earns third
straight All -American
Honors title

Sagan’ s Pale Blue Dot

reviewed Page 3

he ilting-tum lﬁlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Page 8

   

.7 M
VOLUME 95, No. is

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA MARCH 10, 1995

Facu

Blood drive pulls into town

hoto by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

lty chooses winter Rush

Vote taken to gauge

opinion, not to arrive

at ﬁnal decision

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staf Writer

story on page two.

Chi Psi sponsored a blood drive on March 9. Scott Dittman was one of those who volunteered to give blood. See

Washington and Lee faculty mem-
bers voted 83-3 in support of Winter
Rush in a meeting Monday afternoon.

The Student Affairs Committee re-
quested the vote to get an idea of what
the faculty thought about Winter Rush,
said Executive Committee President
Kevin Webb. He said the vote was
taken simply to gauge opinion and not
to implement Winter Rush next term.
SAC members will make recommen-
dations based on students’ opinions at
the April 3rd meeting. The faculty will
make a final vote in May.

In a four-hour meeting at Dean of
Students David Howison’s house, SAC
members voted unanimously to delay
any consideration of Winter Rush for
next year and approved the
InterFraternity Council’s condensed
Fall Rush program. Under the new IFC
plan, pledgeship would be completed
the week before Thanksgiving break,
and initiation would occur in the first
week of Winter Term.

Webb said the majority of faculty
members supported Fall Rush for next
year. He said Winter Rush would be
impractical next year because of the
Mock Convention and other events in
the academic schedule.

Howison agreed but argued that
Winter Rush would unify students and
give freshmen more time to decide

on fraternities.

In a statement made at the faculty
meeting, Professor of Physics H. Tho-
mas Williams cited several documents,
including the Coeducation Review
Committee Final Report and a two
year study conducted by the Univer-
sity of the South, as evidence that
supported Winter Rush. He said the
University of the South study surveyed
17 schools. Twelve of these schools
had Winter Rush and had had no prob-
lems with it, he said. He said W&L
should try Winter Rush. If it doesn’t
work, the university can always go
back to the old system, he said.

IFC President Kevin Batteh said
Winter Rush would distract freshmen
from theirstudies. He said Winter Rush
would hurt the house economically
because most of their money comes
from pledge dues. He said upperclass-
men would be pressured to maintain
house numbers. Fall Rush gives
pledges access to upperclassmen who

"can help them with classes, Batteh

said.

Panhellenic Council President
Suzanne Sharp said it’s important for
Panhellenic to support Greek life.
When 95 percent of men rush in the
fall, a larger percentage of women will
rush in the winter, she said.

Sophomore Kathleen Quirk said
Winter Rush would be unfair to the
freshmen. Freshmen would either feel
isolated from the W&L social scene or

u->See RUSH, page 2

Gorham wins run-off ,

2500 travel to Paris
for 88th Fancy Dress

drinking citations handled by the
ABC Board.

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

Sophomore Amy Gorham
won Thursday’s run-off election
for Secretary of the Executive

reorder were sold out again within
two hours. He felt attendance

F.D. weekend,” and was pleased

By CHRISTINE GARNAVISH to note the remarkably good be-

Phi Staff Writer was partly due to this, because havior of the guests. The fraternities, always a . .
when people like the package Lexington Chief of Police prominent part of Fancy Dress Committee ,w"h 348 Votes‘ .
they tend to purchase tickets more Bruce Beard agreed with Young,_ weekend, also enjoyed great suc- Monday 5. el°.cn9" pm her 1"
Many W&L students making readily. noting that there were no reports cess. With nine band parties on a mmoff Wm‘ Jumor Graham

their first trip to Paris last Friday
were awed by “Une Soiree
Parisienne” with its art, ﬂowers,
music and even can-can dancers.

Joe Frampton, head of the F.D.
Steering Committee, was very
pleased with results of this year’s
ball, giving special recognition
to his fellow committee mem-
bers and their efforts.

The committee, which had
been working since early Octo-
ber, had a few months, a $73,000
budget, and a great amount of
creativity and devotion, making
the 88th Annual Fancy Dress Ball
one of the most successful in
W&L history. Frampton esti-
mates that about 2500 people
turned out for the event, most of
whom were W&L students and
faculty.

Committee Vice—Chair Dan
Felton agreed with “Paducah Joe”
that the ball went “tremendously
well,” again giving credit to the
hard-working committee. Felton
felt that the success was due in
large part to the fact that the
members of the committee
“clicked,” though he jokingly
remarked that the “can-can danc-
ers were key.”

He said many on the commit-
tee worked well over one hun-
dred hours a piece, but noted that
they “do for the joy that it brings
to all the guests.”

Felton further noted the astro-
nomical sales of tickets and
memorabilia over any past year.
Fancy Dress T-shirts sold out
twice, and upon arrival of the

Most of the guests agree that
Fancy Dress was a good experi-
ence and a lot of fun. One stu-
dent, who asked that his name
not be printed, remarked “It was
great...what I remember of it.”
However, this year alcohol was
not as great a problem as it had
been in the past.

Head of W&L Security Mike
Youngcomplimented the student
body on a “quiet, well-managed

of vandalism or property dam-
age.

He was “very pleased” with
the outcome of the weekend, and
extended his gratitude to the stu-
dent body on behalf of himself
and his department. He remi-
nisced of “more aggressive” balls
in years past, and was pleased to
report that the only disciplinary
problems brought to his atten-
tion were a handful of underage

Saturday alone, they were cer-
tainly very active, although none
reported any problems. In fact,
the only unusual occurrence
noted was that Sigma Phi Epsi-
lon had to move an outdoor event
into the house due to dubious
weather. Sig Ep President John
Cox spoke of the success of fra-
ternity activities, but also
complimented the ball itself as a
wonderful experience.

The garden was one of the many places couples could get their pictures
taken at the Fancy Dress Ball.

Frey. Also during Monday’s
election, Keith Benedict ’96L
won the presidential race, Bob
Turner ran unopposed for Vice-
President, and Madeline White
ran unopposed for Student Con-
duct Committee Chair, or Presi-
dent of the Senior class.

 

$3 million gift brings
W&L closer to
campaign goal

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

The contributions President John Wilson and
his wife, Anne, have made to Washington and Lee
University were recognized by a $3 million gift to
the University from Frances and Sydney Lewis.

The Lewises, of Richmond, Va., are the co-
founders of Best Products Inc. and benefactors of

W&L.

“This gift is to honor the service John and Anne
Wilson have given socompetently and devotedly to
Washington and Lee over the past 13 years,” the
Lewises said in a statement announcing the gift last
Saturday at the Board of Trustees meeting.

The gift was revealed by Board of Trustees
Rector A. Stevens Miles when he interrupted a
report by Gerry benfest on gifts to the University.

The gift caught Wilson totally off guard.

“I just sat there, stunned,” he said.

The $3 million, which will be used for scholar-

ships and financial aid, is the latest gift from the
Lewises. They have been some of the University’s
most generous benefactors in the last 20 years. In
1972, they gave W&L $9 million for the construc-
tion of a new law school. They also donated an
additional $3 million over the years to support an
addition to the law school to hold the papers of U.S.
Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell, establish
honor scholarships, and help other philanthropic
efforts of W&L.

Wilson said the gift helped W&L approach the

Trustees.

$31 million dollar goal for student ﬁnancial en-
dowment, a main target of the “On The Shoulders
of Giants” campaign.

Sydney Lewis graduated from W&L in 1940
and received his law degree from the law school in
1943. Lewis and his wife have both served as

Wilson said he would like to spend his final
months at W&L seeing “this campaign go smash-
ing through the top.” He said the gift from the
Lewises was a substantial help.

 

 

  BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

Walesa swears in new Cabinet

 

On Monday, President Lech Walesa swore in Poland’s new Cabinet, led
by Prime Minister Jozef Olesky. The Cabinet is the country’s sixth since
the communists fell in 1989. Olesky is the ﬁrst former communist to lead
the government since 1989. The Cabinet has promised to sign Poland’s
1995 budget.

Ground assault expected
in Chechnya

Russian forces seized a key stretch of road in southwest Chechnya ,

earlier in the week. Forces maintained rocket and artillery ﬁre on the rebel-
held neighboring town of Achkhoy Martan. Now that Russia controls this
key portion of the road and has weakened the southern region of Chechnya,
a ground assault is expected. Due to their concern about the continued
ﬁghting, the European Union has delayed signing a major trade deal with
Moscow.

Estonia elects conservative
parliament

Many of the young liberals who have been pushing for radical change
in Estonia lost Monday’s parliamentary election to older, more cautious
politicians. This conservative group is spearheaded by Tiit Vahi, who
supports the free market, but hopes to form a stronger social safety net than
that which existed under the young free market radicals.

New alliances in former
Yugoslavia

Croatia formed a military alliance with the Croat-Muslim Federation in
Bosnia yesterday. The alliance will give military support to the movement
against Serb rebels in both Croatia and Bosnia. F ranjo Tudjman, the
Croatian president, has ordered 12,000 U.N. troops out of Croatia by March
31. He attributes the Croatian govemment’s failure to win back territory
from the rebel Serbs to the U.N. peacekeeping troops presence.

The Nation

Supreme Court rules on
employee benefits

 

The Supreme Court ruled unanimously on Monday that standard beneﬁt
plan wording that gives a company the right to amend the plan is valid. The
court ruled in favor of the Curtiss-Wright Corporationiwhich cancelled the
health beneﬁts of retired non-union employees of a Wood-Ridge, New
Jersey plant which closed in 1983 because of declining business.

Gingrich protested at
Washington hotel

Five hundred demonstrators protesting changes in the school lunch
program broke into a ballroom at the Washington Hilton Hotel yesterday.
Gingrich was supposed to speak to 2,000 representatives from the National
Association of Counties. His speech was canceled after protest began.

Hillary Rodham Clinton to
announce literacy

Hillary Rodham Clinton observed International Women’s Day by
announcing an initiative to increase female literacy. The announcement
was made at the United Nations forum marking the observance of Intema-
tional Women’s Day. Rodham Clinton also hopes to help more girls in
developing countries to ﬁnish primary school.

The State éi

Tribe to regain land

The Episcopal Church announced on Monday that it will donate seven
acres of land at the base of Bear Mountain to the Monacan Indian Tribe. The
Monacans have lived along the Blue Ridge Mountains for thousand of
years. With the sacred land, the tribe will also regain a tribal meeting center
and a mission schoolhouse where the Monacans were once educated.

Rally held in support of gay
rights activist

About three hundred people met in a Norfolk church on Sunday to show
their support for gay rights activist Mel White. White, 54, is on his fourth
week of a hunger strike in the Virginia Beach city jail. Minister White was
arrested on February 15th for trespassing at the Christian Broadcasting
Network compound at Virginia Beach in an attempt to meet Pat Robertson.
White has said he will continue to strike until Robertson agrees to meet with
him to discuss Robertson’s negative views on homosexuality.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Bethany Bauman

The Ring-tum Phi. March 10. 1995

I

Hot Zone author offers to take ,
out Boston

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer .

A nervous laugh followed by si-
lence fell overthe Lee Chapel audience
as author Richard Preston held up the
tiny capsule.

The pinhead—sized black speck in
the center contained a tiny piece of
liver infected with the deadly virus,
Ebola Zaire.

“There’s enough Ebola in here to
wipe out one million people. We could
do Boston,” said Preston.

The acclaimed author of the best-
selling book, The Hot Zone, spoke
Thursday night to a packed audience
about his novel which described an
Ebola outbreak in a monkey house in
Reston, Virginia.

Ebola is the extremely lethal virus
that has the international science com-
munity bafﬂed and terriﬁed.

Since Ebola’s origins are unknown
and separate strains effect similar spe-
cies differently, the virus remains a
mystery to epidemiologists, those who
study viruses.

While the Reston strain of Ebola
wiped out the monkeys in the monkey
house, humans were unaffected.

However, the Ebola Zaire and Sudan
strains have been known to wipe out
entire African villages. More frighten-
ing still is that these strains are airborne
and can spread among human popula-
tions quickly.

Ebola kills its victim by liquefying
ﬂesh, turning organs into giant blood
clots, and causing the body to bleed
from every oriﬁce.

This process is known as “crashing
and bleeding out.”

The enigmatic and violent nature of
Ebola makes it one of the most serious
biological time bombs ever.

The United States had a near brush
with an Ebola outbreak when monkeys
inside a monkey house began crashing
and bleeding out. The military quaran-
tined the building, euthanized the mon-
keys, and destroyed all contents within
the building. The disaster was avoided

Creative

Dating

arrives at

W&L

with little media attention.

Enter Richard Preston. He stumbled
across the story while talking to virolo-
gists who were familiar with Reston.
He knew he stumbled in to any
reporter’s gold mine — a great and
little-known story.

“Coming across an explosive story
is like digging rocks and finding an
enormous cave lit only by your ﬂash-
light,” Preston said.

The reporter uses his “flashlight” to
gain knowledge and eventually know
the story like the back of his hand.

After extensive research, Preston
delivered The Hot Zone. The book was
fantastically successful. This week it
appeared at #3 on the bestseller list of
The Wall Street Journal and at #2 on
the bestseller list of the New York
Times.

Preston responded to questions
about critics who claim the book was a
plea to prevent the destruction of the
rain forests. (Preston hypothesized
that Ebola originated in the rain forest
and infected the human population
when humans destroyed its habitat.)

“This book wasn’t meant to stop the
devastation of the rain forests. It was
not written for political purposes,” said
Preston.

Preston also explained his theory
that viruses lethal to the human popu-
lation are nature’s way of thinning out
an expanding species nearing capacity.

“AIDS is not a natural accident.
Rather it’s a part of a continuous pro-
cess of disease emergence. lt’s nature’s
way of controlling the human popula-
tion,” said Preston.

Preston spoke on “biopolitics’ as
well. When Ebola broke in Reston, the
Center for Disease Control and the
U.S. military argued overwhich agency
would be responsible for managing the
crisis. Both believed they had jurisdic-
tion. Eventually, a compromise was
reached: the C.D.C. would deal with
the human component of Ebola, and
the military would handle the monkey
house.

In addition to government agencies,
individuals can battle with biopolitics.

  

By MICHAEL HEWLEFI‘

Phi Staff Writer

A dating seminar next week could impact the

Washington and Lee hook—up scene.

sum

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Richard Preston shows off the gas mask he wore for pro-
tection from the deadly Ebola virus.

This was the case with the discovery of
the HIV virus. Both French research-
ers of the Louis Pasteur Institute and
Dr. Robert Gallo of the National Insti-
tute of Health claimed discovery of the
virus. After intense negotiations, they
agreed to share the discovery.

Preston added his belief that
biopolitics is in the best interest of the
American people.

‘‘It’s better to have two govemment
agencies ﬁghting over a crisis than for
them not to care at all,” said Preston.

Preston also said he believes an
AIDS vaccine will not come soon be-
cause of the hyper mutation the virus
undergoes while in the body.

“A person may die of an HIV strain

  
   
 
  
 

completely different from the strain
she caught,” said Preston.

When asked about a hypothetical
widespread outbreak of Ebola, Preston
does not anticipate a rosy scenario.

“The U.S. would revert to 18th cen-
tury medicine of quarantine and ﬂight.
Those infected would be shut off from
the healthy world, while the healthy
would ﬂee the cities for less populated
areas of the country,’ said Preston.

Richard Preston was graduated from
Pomona College in 1977 and received
his Ph.D. in 1983 from Princeton Uni-
versity. He contributes regularly to
The New Yorker. He has also wrote a
book about the cosmos and one about
the steel industry.

     

 

 poly?  . . .
at 37%: of donated blood. comes
gas‘, . ..

theeviiabit throughout their life,”

Bytearly-'afternoon Hal} estimated

A’ fstuderits who start donating in I V

r..   for the day *

 "I't‘¢-A15.-‘<9’-‘v‘.‘-1 '

The Creative Dating Workshop will be held in
Dupont Auditorium on Wednesday, March 15 at 7:00
p.m. The workshop is sponsored by Student Activi-
ties Coordinator Michelle Richardson, Cable 9 Dat-
ing Game, Women’s Forum and
Panhellenic Council.

The Creative Dating Workshop was started in
1985 by Xavier University Student Activities Direc-
tor David Coleman, said Christine Ivanov, the pro-
moting and booking agent for the program. Coleman
developed the program after students asked him for
inexpensive and fun activities that didn’t
involve alcohol. I

Richardson said she thought the workshop would
help students socialize and meet people with-
out alcohol.

“I thought it would be interesting because Wash-
ington and Lee has a reputation for not dating.”

Senior and Channel 2 Dating Game host Chris
Albert said the workshop sounded like a fun activity.

“Creative Dating might give a new perspective on
dating on a small campus in a small town.”

lvanov said the program’s main goal is to give
students realistic options on how to improve their
relationships, whether romantic or platonic. Students,
particularly freshmen, are afraid to get involved in
school activities.

“Students often get stuck in a rut,” she said. “They
get ﬁxed on one social idea. We try to get them while
they’re young.” -

lvanov said the program is tailored for each cam-
pus. Creative Dating tries to get presenters who have
a feel for a particular school’s social scene, she said.
Issues such as AIDS and alcohol abuse might be more
emphasized at one campus than others, she said.

She said new ideas are always generated from
campus visits. Creative Dating does a 100 colleges,
she said. She estimated that they’ve visited 50,000
students in approximately 48 states since 1985. She
said they’re working on visiting Hawaii and Alaska.

lvanov said the program is interactive and lasts an
hour and a half. Students participate in various activi-
ties and see slides. She said the program is sensitive
to the political climate of a school while at the same
time helping students improve their relationships.

“We respect each campus’s philosophy, but we
still get the message across.”

Do you want an exciting life chasing
the.hot

 
  
  
 
 
 
 

 5 .ooiiti:o¥)ile had collected amums 35

_ g  blood Tit:rrsday.'
he saiciffpi had tried once before

M  co earn iiarrgty for sbme'one.”.. ._

45 minntesiand an iiourto give
ile wines  a. year ~ A

11%  the  E  -

Agirre. iftiwais 2 good expe_rienee.. 1»

Faculty indicates it
wants winter Rush

u->RUSH, from page I

feel more pressure from fraternity men to join a
house. She thinks winter Rush would produce smaller
pledge classes and would essentially mean an entire
term of Rush.

Assistant Professor of Politics Mark Rush said he
hasn’t heard any good arguments for keeping Fall
Rush. He said there is no reason not to go to winter
Rush. He said the argument that winter Rush would
hurt fratemities is a non-argument.

‘‘I don’t see how fratemities are going to suffer
from non-fratemity options,” he said. “Competition
is competition.”

Other students stressed the need for

  

   
  
  

That's the best prescrip

‘ I/4/////////////ﬂ/////////////A7////////////////////J4I

news of W&L?

~ 5V/////////////////////////////////////////////I/4/”’”"7/%Wﬂﬂ/Mﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ///WWW/J///W//#////////////////I///ﬂ/1///////#ﬂ/////WWMMM/ﬂﬂﬂﬂ/ﬁwwﬂ///W////ﬂ '

t1onfor_
- /////////////////ﬂ////////////////J/W/ﬂ//////%//ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ/ﬂﬁ/ﬂﬁ/J/Wﬂﬂﬂ /////////////////////////W

.1. 4 - ' ' _.»..-....'4..s..

student autonomy.

“I think it’s up to the student body to decide what’s
right for them,” said senior Yabiz Sedghi.

Senior Goose Garrigus agreed.

“I think it’s important to get faculty members’
opinions,”shesaid,“butthe students’opinions should
be more important.”

Webb said it was important to get faculty mem-
bers’ opinions on winter Rush to give the student
body a chance to respond.

Webb said he wants students and faculty to work
together instead of against each other on
winter Rush.

“Student autonomy is the most important charac-
teristic of W&L,” he said. “We shouldn’t take that
away from the students.”

 

BROUGHTTOYOU
NTWO
AND SOME GOLD MEDICINE.

 To your body. alcohol and medicine can seem very similar. Both can affect your
balance. coordination, and ability to see accurately. Skills that are
essential to riding. After drinking or taking medication. don't ride.
ATION
/

BEERS

vour safety. Moroncvcu snrm rouu

       
 

    

///////////

Then come work for The Ring-tum Phi as a staff writer.

No experience necessary. A
"Meetings are held at 7 p.m. on Tuesdays in University
Center Room 208.

 

///////////////////. :

i

1/ W

     
     
   
      
      
    
 
      
      

A  ’///////////Z////////ﬂﬂ////ﬂﬂﬁﬂﬁﬂﬁ/////ﬂ/
.....g,. -........... .,n. . .....—_q .. ..._. mm...-...iv_: ~' '-

 

J

   
  

1/

   

«K

it

4

The Sn awsn an/t
Redemption
cxplorcs issues
with poisc,
concern

  

By KIRK SUsoNG~———— 
Phi Movie Reviewer

 

The Shawshank Redemption — sfritriﬁr 1/2

The Shawshank Redemption is another
movie that sprang stillborn from the studio; it
has received very little attention from the pub-
lic. However, when it was nominated for sev-
eral Oscars, including Best Picture, I decided to
give it a try. Although it might be difﬁcult to
ﬁnd in a theater, go see it soon, before it
disappears.

The prison-break genre has produced some
of the best movies ever made, such as Papillon
or The Great Escape. The Sha wshank Redemp-
tion is in the same tradition and richly deserves
a place alongside those earlier ﬁlms.

As usual, the protagonist is a man wrongly
convicted, this time for killing his adulterous
wife and her lover. But Andrew Dufresne (Tim
Robbins) is more than just innocent; he is also
a clever and persistent man who was once a
bank vice—president.

When he arrives at Shawshank Prison in
Maine, he quickly becomes something of a
loner and makes enemies. When he ﬁnally gets
around to talking to someone, he develops a
friendship with Ellis “Red” Redding (Morgan
Freeman), the man-who-can-get-things. Deal-
ing in the currency of Lucky Strikes and Ches-
terﬁelds, Freeman is a respected man in prison
circles, as far as these things go.

When the prison warden (corrupt, naturally)
discovers that Robbins is ‘good with numbers,’
he decides to make use of his free labor. First
the warden just has Robbins do his taxes, then
all the guards’ taxes, and eventually Robbins is
doing taxes for most state employees within the
region.

But then the warden gets grander ideas. He
decides to go into business using convict labor
— not just Robbins but other prisoners as well.
Eventually the warden is getting so many kick-
backs and bribes that he develops intricate bank
accounts, fake companies, and even phantom
partners to launder all the dirty money. Behind
the whole house of cards is, of course, Robbins.

But the plot simply serves as a framework to
explore a number of interesting issues: the
walls of prison and the walls of the soul; acqui-
escence and anticipation; pity and sorrow; joy
and failure; displacement and familiarity; the
innocence and guilt of both men and their
system; and, most importantly, hope and resig-
nation.

So what really drives the movie is not the
direction (though Frank Darabont does a ﬁne
job) nor the story line (adapted from a Stephen
King story), but the wonderful acting that ﬁlls
out the very human characters. For example,
Tim Robbins (The Player) is very expressive as
Andy Dufresne.

However, even better than Robbins is Mor-
gan Freeman (Unforgiven,DrivingMissDaisy)
as Red. This is Freeman’s third Oscar nomina-
tion, and he richly deserves to win. Admittedly
his character is sympathetic and likable, but we
shouldn’t allow that to lessen the power of his
acting.

He carries on with a certain monarchal wis-
dom and dignity; his character is unﬂappable.
This makes his occasional outbursts all the
more powerful. Freeman is so reﬁned and re-
served he is able to make his narration at the
beginning of the ﬁlm work, instead of being a
shoddy excuse for character development.

It’s interesting to look at the Oscar ﬁeld this
year. Both Forrest Gump and The Shawshank
Redemption are ‘feel-good’ films, full of senti-
mentality and weepy emotion — almost maud-
lin. It is amazing to see that the lesser (by far) of
these two ﬁlms received so many more nomi-
nations (by far); could the Academy have been
swayed by the fact that Gump was a greater
commercial success (by far)?

The Shawshank Redemption explores a num-
ber of issues with poise and carefully-ordered
concern, keeping it all together within a coher-
ent story populated with superb acting. This is
a ﬁlm you will not want to miss on the big

" screen. It is deﬁnitely worth a drive to Roanoke

4! 1H} - Okay. so there have been better ﬁlms. Nevertheless, it is a

.-ymsu.

4 least don't waste it on this (There's always MTV.)

or Lynchburg or wherever; and it is also worthy
of a few Oscars this year. Let’s just hope that the
Academy agrees.

Rating Scale

tifrtkt} - 00 buy this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an
instant classic. “You'll laugh; you‘|| cry; and maybe, just maybe.
you‘ll learn something about yourself.“ ,

ﬂirt? - Gosce this ﬁlm now, while it‘s still on the big screen. It's
wonh a few Oscar nominations and the seven bucks you'll pay if
you see it outside Lexington. Overall. “Better than Cats!"

good example of its genre, and you should probably see it on
videotape. Still. probably “Better than Cats!“

it} - It happens to be on HBO, and you're blowing offtomonow‘s
reading. Although your time would probably be better served on
your education. its free and you're bored. so go ahead and watch

II.
D - Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed
harder, trust me, this one sucks. Don't waste your time. or at

PAGE 3

 
 
 
 
 
  
     
 

"‘|’.“» ,_ at  . - - =
Art by John Frassanito and Associates

 

Soviet space station Mir and Shuttle rendezvous and dock in the first stage of a planned cooperative effort between the United States and Rus-
sia — and other international partners — in the creation of an international space station.

ngnis EQSIHIE UI5i9ll3 Eﬂ Lint: tr imtginniitn

 

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

“On it everyone you
love, everyone you know,
everyone you ever heard
of, every human
being who ever

was, lived out their

lives. The aggregate
of our joy and suffer-
ing, thousands of
confident religions,
ide010gieS...every saint
and sinner in the history
of our species lived there

—— on a mote of dust sus-

pended in a sunbeam.”

In Pale Blue Dot, Carl
Sagan describes the vision of
a human impact on the Cos-
mos.

The book begins, however,
by debunking many ancient
and modern predisposition re-
garding the Universe.

In what Sagan calls “The Great Demotions,”
he outlines how we have come from being the
center of the Universe and the ultimate reason

readers.

  

In the long awaited
sequel to Cosmos, Sagan
once again does his best
to capture the minds and
imaginations of his

for Creation, to mere passengers on a ship that
might not even be the only springboard for life
in the Cosmos.

With scientific logic, Sagan details the
changes that must take place within our civili-
zation before we can truly reach out to the stars.

Without global cooperation, many of the
long term goals for space exploration will be
unattainable.

In his unique style of making science attain-

able to the average reader, Sagan lists the tri-
umphs of the Voyager probes (including the
pictures from beyond the
Solar System of the plan-
ets that sparked the be-
ginning passage) and
other exploratory mis-
sions to the stars.

Sagan has completed
another successful step in
educatingthe public about
space and science in gen-
eral.

One of the key ele-
ments in the book, al-
though sometimes a bit
subtle, is Sagan’s opti-
mism for the human spe-
cres.

Despite gloomy pre-
dictions from some, he
states the possibilities for
our clan as we attempt to
catch up with the technol-
ogy we have created.

One example of our
possibility lies in the Voy-
ager probe itself.

For a civilization finding the craft at
some time in the future, the ship would repre-
sent to them a culture that was curious, explor-
atory and open-minded.

While now this may not be the case, Sagan

. O l
Publicity Photo

 

presents the possibility that it may be the case;
once we learn how to cope with our abilities, we
may attain that level.

“There are people who were born before
there was such a thing as an airplane, and who
in old age saw four ships launched to the stars.

For all our failings, despite our limitations
and fallabilities, we humans are capable of
greatness.”

Sagan, a master at bringing science torthe ..

attention of the general public, has possibly
improved upon his immensely popular Cosmos
with Pale Blue Dot.

The book also does an excellent job of
confronting some of the physics behind mod-
em space exploration without either glossing
over it or going into esoteric detail.

Most would hope that we survive to see
some of Sagan’s predictions for our future
comet0pass.. .. . .- . —

 

Publicity Photo
Pulitzer Prize winner Carl Sagan probes the Universe, continuing the
scientific voyage begun in Cosmos, which appeared on the New York
Times bestseller list for seventy weeks.

Farai Chidega GCDLJRRS Culural misinformation

By MICHAEL
. HEWLETT
' ‘ Phi Staff Writer

  

When fonner Clinton nominee,
Lani Guinier, spoke at Lee Chapel a
few weeks ago, she noted how much
of our political discourse is domi-
nated by “drive-by debating.”

When discussing social ills, we,
as Americans, tend to buy quick ex-
planations without realizing the is-
sue may be more complicated than
we expect.

Oftentimes, politicians throw out
labels like “welfare queen”, “quota
queen”, etc. to stir up controversy
and no one questions what these la-
bels mean or even if they reflect
reality.

Farai Chideya, author of Don ’t
Believe The Hype: Fighting Cultural
Misinformation About African-
Americans, debunks many of the
popular notions about African-
American life with a wealth ofstatis-
tics and facts culled from various
sources.

Chideya paints a media that ﬁnds
it easier to rely on racial stereotypes
instead of attempting to ﬁnd thetruth.

The newspapers tend to focus on
the negative aspects of African-
American life instead of doing more
positive stories.

Although stories on
welfare invariably
show blacks receiving
assistance, she points
out that in sheer num-
bers, whites make up
the majority of welfare
recipients.

Newt Gingrich and
company may com-
plain about the evils of
the “liberal welfare sys-
tem”, but Chideya
points out that welfare
takes up less than one
percent of the federal
budget.

She also criticizes
Charles Murray’s The
Bell Curve, arguingthat
a number of factors af-
fect one’s place in soci-
ety.

“In fact, intelligence
is not an absolute quan-
tity at birth, but depends
on acombination ofge-
netics and environ-
ment, especially the
level of stimulation
given babies and tod-
dlers while the brain is
developing.

“ By some estimates, the major-
ity of Americans with mental retar-
dation are not born that way but
suffer permanent neurological dam-

age as a result of being
understimulated—for example. be-
ing left alone in their cribs all day
withoutbeingfrequentlytouched and
spoken t0...A whole host of factors

otherthan genetics de-
termine the future in-
tellectual capacity of
America’s children.”

The media further
concentratetheiratten-
tion on crime and drug
usage among blacks
when the majority of
violent crime and drug
usage is committed by
whites.

Yet, Chideya never
point this out. When-
ever the newspapers or
T.V. station does a
story on drug use, it
invariably shows
blacks—not whites.

Stories on welfare
depict blacks even
when the reporter ad-
mits that the vast ma-
jority of welfare re-
cipients are white.

What Chideya
points out is a unfor-
tunate reality in jour-
nalism.

Some reporters
find it easier to write
about urban decay
rather than urban renewal.

They don‘t see much value in
reporting on people who work hard
to provide for their families and pre-
serve a future for their children and

grand-children.

Yet, this underreporting of positive
things occurring in the black commu-
nity creates a climate where racial ste-
reotypes ﬂourish.

One of the problems is low percent-
age ofblack reporters on predominantly
white newspapers.

Forty-five percent of all newspapers
have no non—white empl0yees,and black
journalists make up only 5 percent ofall
newspaper reporters.

Chideya says this partly accounts for
the shoddy coverage of the black com-
munity.

The other reason is the sheer refusal
of some newspapers to simply become
moresensitiveincoveringminoritycom-
munities.

Chideya, a former journalist for
Newsweek, offers a striking picture of
black community that is often ignored
by the mainstream media. She gives
clear and insightful explanations about
afﬁrmative action, crime, welfare, po-
litical correctness and multiculturalism.

Although the book is full of statis-
tics, Chideya never allows herselfto be
bogged down with numbers.Like any
journalist,she writes sothatthe ordinary
reader can understand.

This is an informative and important
book. As Chideya makes clear, no one
can discuss the fractious issue of race
relations until one has the facts.This
book goes a long way in demystifying
the hype.

 

 

  

 

   

\
s \\\\\\\
§
§
§
§
S
§
§

MIXED MEDIA
by Jack Ohman

 

 %_‘
{-—~f”__‘._‘~ .‘
Z_—:‘;—. — -

M.;iNpoI2MAtioN $uPErzi.IIeuwA~/.

é.

THE CAPITAL
SOUTH DA
IS MINNEAP s

W&LIFE

DAVE
by David Miller

           

   

     

THOMAS
JEFFERSON
WROTE
HUCKLEBERRY
FINN

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1995

 
  
  

I REALLY. R wm-I DIRECTORY ISTANCE.

  

I ‘THANK YOU F“? 3E'“6 DAVE continue; Hi; 1
THERE FOR . ‘NH? FNAPPKOPRIATE rz l0N§HlP

 

 

LEAST u$EI=uL NEW
guppowt GROUP...
 WELCOME to
‘ LT cuuonsu
$ OF ADULTS...
l l l
:’;‘ﬁ 'f“\ fﬂ‘ ”'_“
aggtoioa

 
      
 

 

_ E9 ‘
- 3-2: '9’L:\

HOW TO GET STUFF CHEAPER.

(WITHOUT POSING As A SENIOR CITIZEN.)
Qﬂ. Check expiration dates.
I ‘ lf it's going bad tomorrow, it's

probably on sale today.

Look for product ﬂaws.
A scratch or a miss’ button means
bargain savings at register

Go generic.
Same as name brands, without the
cartoon mascots.



Buy in bulk with friends.
Connect the leftover boxes to make
a human Habitrail.®

Use a Citibank Classic card.

if you find out you didn't pay the lowest
price, Citibank Price Protection can pay
you back up to 515 l 505



7 ' 77 3igﬁiatdnai’.-conditions-iand exclusions-‘app . earn all
w 1 -. ‘about I en-you become a cardmem

  

WE’RE LOOKING our FOR You?"
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.

////////

V

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

/

% S
\ \
s s
‘\‘ §
1% S
s §
\  

\ \ §
§ Men/Women earn up to $480 §
\

\ §
§ boards/electronic components §
§' at home. Experience unnec- §
§ essary, will train. Immediate §
§' openings in your local area. §

   
   
  

weekly assembling circuit

Call 1-602-680-7444
Ext. 102C.

 
 

 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  

Ladies ’S hoes, Clothing  
andAccessories

Winter Clearance Sale

  
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
 

Kelly’s Corner

on Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington

"The tradition continues ”

Custom-made hand tied flies and
guided flyfishing trips available from
Kelly’s Corner

QOMINGSOQN:
Completeflyfishing line

    
 
        
   
 

AsAIways, We Provide The Best
Service For The W&L Community

Open 7 Days

 

463-5452 Mlles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

   

  
  

your debts into one

.-....e.as. -to- e   
to pay.

FAST lleur Is Just A Dunn: tau. hurl
0,-mghtl-305-537-3517, (21: HR RECORDING)

for your FREE APPLICA'l'ION or write: .
. BOX 645. HOLLYWOOD. FL 33022

Calida)’

BUDGETMASTER

WELL, AT LEAST WE HAVE

, J, .v/ ,
 / ,
. _,,.?
sewed.
s .

ALOT To woI2I< wirH/

 
 

   
 
   
  
 

 

j;.__ NOTTHE wozos 0

V y : WANTED EAR w

    ‘ NEW
.’ -jsi? PER5oNAL TRAINER.

The Ping-tum Phi Studies show that
newspaper is more effective protection
than cardboard ‘boxes in air raids.

 

Brand-name ilks 75% off

Student Discount Sale
on through March 11

10% off 3 items - 20% off 4
or more items

Hours: Mon-Sat 9:30-5:30

2 2

17 s. Main St. 463-9730

Let us
combine all

 

   
 

Peace COIPS

By giving others the beneﬁt
of your education and hard
earned skills, you can also
enhance your own career. 
Learn a foreign language.
Gain work experience. A
college education com-
bined with Peace Corps
experience produces career

 
    

advancement.

Additional beneﬁts include:

6 $5,400 upon completion
of service

     

0 Graduate school opportunities

 
 

advance your career!

  
    
  
 

Get your Peace

ITUICS.

 
    

   
 

The Toughext» [ob
You '11 Ever Love.

 

Career Choices —— Career Advancement

 

O Studentloan cancellation/ deferment
Your ‘cultural background and skills are valuable. Use them to

Contact Peace Corps for eligibility requirements.

pril21 rla um rand fall
toug . jobyou’ll ever

love is waiting for y .
Call 1-800-424-8580 for more information.

2

 

 

The 1995 Northwestern University
College Preparation Program is
looking

 

for
Counselors

to work this summer.

We’re looking for some “Big Sibs”
to help guide high school students
h a

from arou he nation throug
summer earning and fun at

Northwestern.

Co a 'ations in

For an application call
1 800 FINDS NU

or e—mail us at

  
 
  

 
  

summer95@nwu.edu

 

 

  
   
   
  
    
  

  

 
   
  
   

   
  
 

 

  
   
  

 
    
   

I
h two I’ the most recognlzed and ' Y  '
. . accepted lnalvlfc mrid-.vIsae and Masmaudo I I‘: . lW8ntV|SA°/MASIERCARDO Credit .
‘ - crrrdll card :in your name." EVEN IF YOUARE N 'N | mdsappmved lmmedlalcly. 1oo% GUARANTEED! I
‘ "_-. car: or HAVE BEEN 1URNED DOWN as as . ' I
"  A visas and memos the credit cards you I l
_ deserve and need —- ID-BooK$—DI:I>ARrMI-:N'r I NAME I
‘ow STORE$——'lUlTl0N—-EN'l‘ERTAlNMENT— , |
1:3" EMERGENCY <msH—rIcKErs—ns[‘s]I;it{tg§\rNIs- ' ADDRESS ,
HOTEl.S—MOTELS—(‘AS-C MS-
I REPAIRS-AND TO BUILD voun cnsmr RA11NC-I : Cl'IY STATE —— ZIP :
f_- -. ’ HONE S.S.”
C’  i Gwxhtlﬂﬁm llo t downs! ' P 4 :
 agulﬂ llo c t checks! ' SIGNATURE
 ‘ﬁ“_g9a!g:§,. <-3:: N0 security deposit! : Nara «ac-.dIs-rusmcnd lrldcrrnrkd cram lntegalloml Inc. :
" @335 t»  sa Is a reglstcrd lfidcrrnrk 0! VISA Ll Inc Ind Vl lﬂfﬂillonll
gig‘ “W” 3”” ""5 °°‘"'°" "ml ' '
‘tom: CREDIT CARDS ARE wnnmc. ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ ___! _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _g _

 

P‘

 

Y

A

 

The Ring-rum Phi. Man" ‘.0. '99.?-

Cllriz iﬁtttg-tum iﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Gender equity at W&L?

Only a short 10 years after women began walking down the
colonnade for purposes other than social ones, we have acheived
something that one alumnus told me would never happen;
gender equity in Washington and Lee’s hallowed “Big Four.”

Made up of the chairman of the Student Conduct Committee
and the president, vice president and secretary of the Executive
Committee, the “Big Four” has traditionally been mostly, if not
all, male. In fact, only one woman has ever been a holder of any
of these four offices.

But today, for the first time in the short history of coeduca-
tion at W&L, two of the four offices are being held by women;
with Amy Gorham as EC secretary and Madeline White as SCC
chairwoman.

Women have had no trouble becoming an academic and
social force at W&L, and if fact have become campus leaders
in many respects on the campus (the publications, for instance,
are virtually monopolized by women) but have been very slow
to become political leaders. Many times in recent years, there
have been very well-respected and experienced women candi-
dates for offices, but every time but one they failed.

Of course, no woman has yet been able to achieve the highest
office at W&L, that of EC president, but as one student pointed
out, the ratio of men to women in the Big Four now outweighs
the ratio of men to women at Washington and Lee.

Many female alumni of W&L darkly predicted that this day
would never come; the campus, they said, was too traditional,
too conservative, too Southern, to let such a thing ever happen.
But the “gentlemen” at Washington and Lee have let two
women into their ranks, and we can only praise the progress the
campus has made.

We are not sure to whom the credit is due in this unprec-
edented step, but we must be grateful. Washington and Lee is
now more equitable than the United States government, all U.S.
business schools, the corner offices of Forture 500 companies,
leadership positions in administration at virtually every univer-
sity in the country and the Supreme Court, to name a few.

Never thought of it that way, did you? The women at
Washington and Lee are only roughly one-third of the popula-
tion, but we certainly have nothing to complain about in the
small protected environment of W&L politics. It is almost a
shock to someone who, her freshman };year, listened to losing
woman candidates mutter under their breaths L about the
unﬂinchable, iron-walled “good ol’ boy” network which had
prevented the entrance of women into anything but their social
lives.

It is, however, a positive shock, and The Ring-tum Phi
congratulates Amy Gorham and Madeline White, as well as
their male counterparts. Like the ad says, you’ve come a long
way.

Quote of the Week...

“It’s kind of like seeing someone at the gym...it’s
never the same again.”

Assistant professor of politics Eduardo Velasquez
commenting on seeing students at Fancy Dress

  
 

 

GREEIKS

THE umlrtk

<———-'-

50, !4.ow‘5

   

RUSH
SITUAT toil?

    

PAGE 5

FACULTY

Elhr ilting-mm iﬂlit

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editor s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Scott Bookwalter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dan Odenwald, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editori I Cartoonist s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickenger

Editoria Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

Advertising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd, Jenni Grant

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but TheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

Debt protest not Worth consequences

MELISSA SAWYER,

deliberate refusal to further participate
in the payment aspect of my consump-

U.S. government has done for so long.
Only that I, unlike the government, the unlawful dissent of one man causes

tion to those who have fought to end must suffer the consequences of my
the terrorism of their nation or the
oppression of their group. My action

action in both a short-term and long-
term way. Aside from my initial fear of

tual obligation. In the United States,

an unmitigated threat to our institu-
tions and leaders. I become that felon
and extortionist, a woman who lived

,97 may even arrest and abovehermeansand shirked herﬁnan-
. _ ' s e e m prosecu— cial obligations, onewho hoped to make
Analysts afelncreaslngly Certalnthat petty _and C C tion under other decent hardworking people pay
we are not going to_balance the budget criminal _ . the current for her leisure. lam no longer the proud
now, so I have decided not to balance on the sur- Perhaps ln all honesty I “..well—or- resistance to a hypocritical regime.
my Ch€Ckl_>00k this m9nth- Of COUFSC, f8C€;h0W- must  that even I dering of My consequences are notlimited to
tire ggly with the flaccid face ind star- e vlde r I,  h ‘t t t society ” the sort-term. I will ever after be criti-
ing ueeyesint epaintinga ovemy cou n’t wou est a e 0 com are laws, I cized on loana lications form r
library carrel is trying to remind me of justify itas my deliberate refusal 1:0 w o u l d credit,onjobaplpIlicationsformylér‘l:li-
a vast prgcedure we tprdinary citizens a protest ﬁtrther participate in the have to nal record, and on a myriad of country
must en ure in suc circumstances. againstt e brace my- club and AAsurveys for my irrespon-
Should I rea}llybfea]i(' thle coldj checls slfow thpft payment aspect ofmy con- s e l f sibility to society.
co m tt , t , t 't — . ' [1 S0,]
C0:11pa1nl::, theecolll<le1ction‘::tg(i::rrlciles,c zllrld l)urcI=.nl;y ua sumptlon to those who h;ave  needs feziwr/nllz)t:i:ll,<fealjptgeacisii't:teiltlsl 
mosi cpfb all Fygarents so much that T degener- fought to end the terrorlsm of a soci- effect, andlam notso great orindepen-
wou e a rat to commit an act 0 ating gov- of-their nation or the O _ ety which dentasThoreauorMartin Luther King,
civil disobedience in not paying emment? , , p demands who found enou h intrinsic worth in
my debts? . _ Frankly presslon Of their group. the inde- the message of their disobedience to
Unfoftllnatﬂl)’, my position would there is pendent justify theiraction. Lontheotherhand,
not be so gracefully received as one nothing assump- must continue to be thankful that the
protestingotherformsofinjustice.Per- strictly tion of co-op makes a thirty percent proﬁt,
..haps.in all. honesty I. must admit that . prohib.it-. »~ ..~  . ~ . ~ one’s bur- that my long distance only costs more
even I would hesitate to compare my ing me from forsaking my debts as the dens and the fulﬁllment of all contrac- to call in-state, and that I will be out of

my educational debt by the time I
am ﬁfty.

Court trip means more than classwork

FAR MIDDLE
ALEX CHRISTENSEN

Last Tuesday night around 11:30 p.m., after labo-
riously—-er, at least carefully--preparing a presenta-
tion for Philosophy class the next day, I got a call from
Andrew Schneider, undergrad president of the ACLU.
It seemed he and the law school ACLU president had
reservations for seats to watch oral arguments in the
case of Rosenberger v. University of Virginia at the
Supreme Court the next day. But the law school-side
president was sick.

Now, this presented an obvious dilemma. I had
three classes the next day. I had a quiz in Religion,
plus that Philosophy presentation.

Actually, thinking about it now, I probably wouldn’t
call it a “dilemma,” exactly. I called to leave a mes-
sage on my Religion professor’s voice-mail. Surpris-
ingly, at midnight, he answered his office phone, so I
was able to explain the situation to him and arrange to
take the quiz later. My Philosophy professor, how-
ever, was apparently not even on the voice-mail
system, so I wrote an explanatory note and left it on
his door right before we left--at 4:30 Wednesday
morning. i

The Supreme Court is truly beautiful. I can’t tell
you if it’s really architecturally signiﬁcant, or even
well designed, but it is beautiful. Climbing up those
marble steps (especially walking slightly arrogantly
past the waiting throng who somehow did not get
reservations) is a feeling essentially indescribable.
Black-and-white pictures of Thurgood Marshall and
Linda Brown headed in forBoard ofEducation, Sarah
Weddington on her way to Roe, Gregory Lee Johnson
burning his ﬂag right...there!...Well, it’s aplace where
justice is done--or has been done.

Ronald Rosenberger was a student at the Univer-
sity of Virginia when he started Wide Awake Produc-
tions to publish student views from a Christian per-
spective. A first-issue letter from the editor stated
their aim as challenging students to walk in the way of
the Lord. Rosenberger applied to the student council
for funding of his magazine. The council funds 118
groups each year, including those published by Jew-
ish and Muslim student groups. Wide Awake was
denied its $5800 request on the grounds that it vio-
lated the establishment clause of the First Amend-
ment.

Rosenberger sued. The 4th Circuit sided with the
University of Virginia. On Halloween, 1994, the
Supreme Court granted certiorari, setting the stage
for, as Pat Buchanan might describe it if he were a
liberal hothead instead of a reactionary one, one of the
greatest acts of legal cross-dressing in history.

Professor Michael McConnell of the University of
Chicago, a former Brennan clerk, argued the case for
Ronald Rosenberger. In line with recent Supreme

Court decisions occasioned by suits brought by agents

of the Religious Right, he made the case that speech
is speech, whether religious, anti-religious or non-
religious, and that presenting Christian viewpoints

was just as valid and worthy of funding as any
other viewpoint. Essentially, he said, the case
boiled down to nothing more than viewpoint dis-
crimination. If the University of Virginia wished
to sponsor efforts at student journalism, it should
do so no matter what the content of the speech.

L In my opinion, McConnell’s formulation is
bogus. To say that funding every kind of speech
except the religious (and as an extension, the
blatantly anti-religious) treats religion in a some-
how less than neutral way simply ignores the First
Amendment. Giving money to a religious activity
clearly violates the establishment clause.
McConnell’s argument that funding the Muslim
and Jewish groups’ publications pointed up some
logical ﬂaw is incorrect as well. They did not
advocate religious practices or living a religious
life as Wide Awake clearly did. A question from
the team of Justices Souter and Scalia pointed this
out; it forced the University of Virginia through its
representative, Professor John Jeffries, Jr. of the
University of Virginia, a former clerk for W&L’s
own Lewis Powell, to admit that their standards
would permit funding of a hypothetical journal
that dealt with issues in Christianity without advo-
cating (or campaigning against) any of
Christianity"s tenets. I believe that in going any
further, the government would step into a gray,
foggy realm in which it may be directly manipu-
lated by religion.

Surprisingly, Jeffries barely touched on this
argument in his presentation for the University of
Virginia. He started out simply, and exclusively,
making the argument that with a limited budget,
the student council simply could not fund every-
one. Therefore, they must be permitted to make

their choices. This was a disastrous way to begin his
argument. The justices immediately jumped on him for
it. Discrimination by a public university is not permit-
ted. Jeffries seemed to be making the case that the I
council could pick and choose on any basis at all, which I
might include religion, sex, race, or hated viewpoint. 
After that losing skimiish, Jeffries recovered admira- 3
bly, assisted by Justice O’Connor, who seemed really 1
to want to hear a strong argument here, and made the ;
case that Wide Awake was not merely a magazine ;
presenting a Christian viewpoint, but really a prosely- «_
tizing publication, in essence a religious activity sim- ;
ply deﬁned, and therefore ineligible to be funded. I
Jeffries made some strong points that seemed to be 1
well taken by the justices, but McConnell was, overall, ;_
smoother and more in-control logically. ;
Luckily, oral arguments are not necessarily the 1
deﬁning moment in deciding cases. The Court will 1

consider this case and should cotne out with a ruling by 1
June. There is really very little predicting with any 3
accuracy that can be done. Voting to uphold the 4th {
Circuit ruling against Rosenberger will almost cer-:
tainly be Justices Stevens, Ginsburg and perhaps Breyer. 2
Voting to overtum will almost certainly be Justices Zj
Rehnquist, Scalia and Thomas. So the deciding votes I;
will belong to JusticesO’Connor, Kennedy and Souter. 2
While this Court does not have a stellar record in?
upholding the separation of church and state, they have 
also exhibited a tendency to swing back to tradition and ,2
precedent after too long a radicalization, as with the .3
Webster case, where they essentially upheld Roe v. t.‘
Wade explicitly for the ﬁrst time, thought it had already I
been substantially eroded. Maybe Rosenberger will be I
the case in which they return to common sense on the I

First Amendment.
Anyway, it was worth the ‘F’ in Philosophy.

 

 

 

3'3‘ ‘E-‘ft

 

OPINION ,

Funk and eggs dinner at Lee-Hi

 LAND
‘ Richard Weaver

One of my favorite Fancy Dress

weekend activities took place before
the actual ball. On Thursday night I
went to the Ramada Inn in Lexington
and knocked on the door of room 210.
5 Gary, one of the P-Funk All Stars,
let me inside. George Clinton was ly-
ing face down on the bed. All around
the room were dozens of marbles, the
kind you shoot in your slingshot or
something.
'_ Gary woke up George, who sat up,
nodded to me and said hello. He got up
and went in the bathroom and changed
into a red jumpsuit and a Parliament T-
shirt. When he came out I asked him
where he gets his clothes.

3, “When we make a video, they give
us these clothes,” he said. He then
braided his multi—colored, hip-length
braids together. Then he put them in a
semi-bun on his head and put on a
trench coat. We were ready to go to
Lee-Hi truck stop for dinner.

Accompanied by Frog, the newest
member of the P-Funk All Stars, we
walked to the hotel elevator. I asked
George what he was hungry for, and he
said he couldn’t have much, because

he’s on the Slim-Fast diet.

“Are you going to do some of those
commercials afterward, like Kathie Lee
Gifford?” I asked.

ably never imagined before. I don’t
think the nearby truckers were amused.

The discussion soon turned to fe-
male fans in Japan, where they had just

“No,” he said. toured. George also talked about how
We got to Lee-Hi and walked in he once scared a fan who had closed his
(me, George eyes while feeling
Clinton, and 2 P- the groove.
Funk All Stars) C ‘ “I put my face,
and I think which wascovered
people noticed After a whﬂe in face paint, right

them, rather than
me. We took our
seats in the so-
larium,where ap-
p r o x i m a t e I y
three eager wait-
resses took our
orders. The
President of

George Clinton and
the two P-FunkAll
Stars burst into spon-
taneous rap, a new
song about Jack and
his beanstalk in a

in front of his and
breathed on him.
He opened his eyes
so wide and then
he pulled a knife. I
jumped back, be-
cause that was
enough,” George
said. I left out the

Funk had a big
bowl of cottage
cheese.

I asked

context you’ve prob-
ably never imagined
before. I don ’t think

words with lots of

asterisks in them.
After dinner,

and an impromptu

George to sign a
few autographs
for friends, and
he even threw in .
some drawings
of faces next to his signature. Frog
signed his name “Funk Frog.” After a
while the three of them burst into spon-
taneous rap, a new song about Jack and
his beanstalk in a context you’ve prob-

the nearby truckers
were amused.
 

photo session with
several W&L stu-
dents who hap-
pened to have their
cameras with them
at their tables, we left Lee-Hi and
headed for the Pavilion.

George popped in a cassette of the
Jack/Beanstalk song they had just re-
corded in Atlanta. He and the All Stars

rapped along as we passed bee Chapel.

At the Pavilion George went to his
dressing room. I waited outside with
cameraman Will Olson to do a quick
interview for Channel 2. We met
George’s daughter, as well as some
very strange people walking around
wearing various combinations of se-
quins, cowboy hats, velour, etc. Some
of them were already dancing.

We knocked on the dressing room
door again, where there was a distinct
smell that I don’t think was cigarette
smoke. We walked in, camera rolling.
Inside, to the right sat a naked P-Funk
All Star. We ignored him.

George motioned to us to come
over. We did a few questions before he
got his own microphone, left and
walked on stage. He had left the
Mothership at home.

Later on that night I checked my
answering machine, where George’s
publicist had left a message to the
effect that I had better give him back
by 8:30 or" she was going to be very
disappointed.

Luckily, none of us were disap-
pointed. George Clinton was very
friendly, very nice, and an excellent
musician. He put on an incredible per-
forrnance, fueled by that Lee-Hi cot-
tage cheese. Almost makes you want
to be a rock star.

V

Phi Beta Kappa Convocation
Schedule of Classes forWednesday, March I5, I995

A - 8:00 a.m. - 8:45 p.m.
B - 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 p.m.
C - 9:40 a.m. - |0:25 p.m.
D - l0:30 a.m. - |l:|5
E - ||:20 a.m. - |2:05
CONVOCATION |2:l5 - l:45

F- |:50

p.m. — 2:35

G - 2:40 p.m. - 3:25 p.m.

H-330

p.m. - 4:|5 p.m.

I - 4:20 p.m. - 5:05 p.m.
j- 5:|0 p.m. - 5:55

Photos  Interviews by Betsy Green

 

.1

 

Gretchen Hall, ’96, Atlanta,
GA—“Pink hearts.”

DXIKBACK

§

State Chairs

All students who applied to be
State Chairmen for Mock Conven-
tion, interviews will begin on Sun-
day, March 12. Check outside Carol
Caulkins’ office for the date and
time of your interview.

Alumni Staff

Applications from members of
the Class of 1995 who wish to be
considered for the alumni Staff As-
sociate position for the 1995-1996
academic year are due by Monday,
March 13. Graduating seniors should
submit a letter of application and
resume to Alumni Director Jim
Farrar at the Alumni House. The
Staff Associate position becomes
available July 1, 1995. Personal in-
terviews will be scheduled upon re-
ceipt of application.

Workshop

There will be an internship work-
shop on Tuesday, March 14, at 4:00
p.m. in the Mattingly House Con-
ference room. All students are in-
vited to attend.

Information Session

Everyone is invited to an infor-
mation session conducted by Project
Performance Corp. on Tuesday,
March 14, at 7:00 pm. in the Game
Room of the University Center.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1995

I GENERAL

N OTES_

 

Practice Interviews

Videotaped practice interviews
will be conducted on March 15. If
interested in a practice interview,
sign up for a time in the Career
Development Office.

Honor System

The Executive Committee is cur-
rently seeking any students or Pro-
fessorinterested in helping re-make
the Honor system video. Anyone
interested in acting in the video or
anyone who has had a positive ex-
perience with the Honor system
should contact William Toles at
462- 4051.

Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
staff members. If you are interested
in working for the Phi, come to our
weekly meetings, Tuesdays at 7:00
in University Center Room 208.

Calyx

Calyx is offering free yearbooks.
Students may pick up free 1992 and
1994 yearbooks outside the Calyx
office, which is located on the sec-
ond ﬂoor of the University Center,
room 206.

 

Layout by Darcey Livingston

Which marshmallow shape in Lucky Charms
cereal is your favorite?

 

Megan Flohr, ’97, San Anto-
nio, TX—“PurpIe horseshoes.”

Valley

E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

Milagros Daly, ’98, Miami,
F L—“I like green diamonds!”

  

DIVE.

Alumni Staff Associate
Position Available

Applications from members of the Class of 1995 who wish to be considered
for the Alumni Staff Associate position for the 1995 - 1996 academic year
are due by Monday, March 13. Graduating seniors submit a letter of
application and resume to Alumni Director Jim F arrar at the Alumni House.
The Staff Associate position becomes available July 1, 1995. Personal
interviews will be scheduled upon receipt of application. '

SkYDiVE ViR9iN iA'.'

Train and make your first parachute
jump in one day. Skydive Virginias
staff has 30+ years instructional expe-
rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-

Phaedra Cianciulli, ’96, Mt.
Arlington, NJ—“Green diamonds.”

    
      
          
   
 

  

 
      
    

Ashley Short, ’95, Houston,
TX-—“The seasonal shapes, like for
Christmas.”

 

Melissa Sawyer, ’97, Ath-
ens, OH—“The stars because when
I eat them in the morning I feel like a
star!”

W&L STUDENTS
Self—storage units now available.
Reserveyour self-storage area
for the summer months.

25 South Jefferson Street
behind Domino’s Pizza
Call Mrs. Brown 463-5013

APARTMENT FOR RENT

2 bedroom apartment for rent in
downtown Lexington - just a very
short walk from W&L campus.

$187.50 per month per bedroom.
$375.00 per month for the unit.
Great Location!
Landlord pays for water -
including hot water.

Available beginning June 1, 1995.

If interested, please call the property manager, Mrs.
Brown, at 463-3013 8 am - 5 pm M-F.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 10, 1995

  Hamsteete

MANSLOW PRICES

 

 "

«oi . v~
I:  A. '
.. _s ﬂ

/’
Harris Teeter Low Fat All Natural
K Cottage negﬁzar 9 Hunter  00
Cheese _24 oz. Ice Cream gal.

Kellogg ’s

   

rnloongnono \
-nnonnasrnnEnnnercnnzvvnnr

PAGE 7

PEADS THE PHI!
 WEWiSHYOULUC|<ONEX-
AMS AND THE END OF THE

TEPM. AND. OF COUPSE. A .

WONDEPFLL SPPING TEPM.

The Washington and Lee Puhiications
Board is accepting applications tor the
toiiowing positions:

Executive Editor anct Business

Manager ot 7719 Ring-tum Piaf anci
Eciitors—in-Chiet anct Business

Manager ot the Ca/yx.
Applications are (iue 5 p.m. March 15 anct
shouiri he suhmitteci to Sarah Giihert in the

P111’ hox in the University Center.

Applications shouict inciurie resumé anci
. cover letter.

WeIch’s Selected Varieties
Grape Libl_)y’s Lite
Fruit _16 oz. I

Jelly _32 oz. I  

   
  

Selected Varieties
Top Ramen

M Le  Sou
rr 1" -o 6/  
"' 2. 30-3 oz. I D

DRINK FEATURE

      

, 8% Juicy Or Beefy Bryan
Jumbo Franks

°‘ Get

One

Like

i. Item
02.

Harris Teeter 

*1  Single Wrap
F006! 12 oz.

,.

 

Coke Or Diet

Coke

2 Liter

Caffeine
Free
Or Caffeine

Harris Teeter W
Orangecorerezo
Juice_ 12 oz. I

     
 

. « Harris Teeter
  Spread  Excedrin m
4‘ Quarters ___oz Tablets _24 ct.

Prices Effective Through March 14, 1995
Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, March 8 Through March 14, 1995 IN OUR lfX|H(1i0H STORE
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We uiaoly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

SAB presents
Hypnotnt

Tom Deluca

in the Leniest (enter

Thursday, March 16

Doors open at 7:30 p.m.
Show starts at8 p.m.

$5 admission

1

 

, ,“_.’,.z}.A\.§. .3 ..A..
  Ft:-.‘ 
, . : . .  . - .,.s‘_' :‘j .‘ -..L.' ' ~.n..~ jg":

 

 

   

Last Week:

Rebekah Prince takes All-America honors in

swimming for the third straight year.

Men’s Lacrosse defeats Hampden-Sydney in
overtime to atone for last year’s loss.

PAGE 8

S

Glln: itiing-tum iﬂlti

PORTS

GOLF, BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS

This Week:  

The W&L Lacrosse Tournament opens tomor-
row as W&L takes on Randolph-Macon.

Men’s and women's tennis, women’s lacrosse,
have home matches tomorrow. Women's
tennis takes on Nazareth today.

MARCH 10, 1995

Baseballsquad nets ﬁrst two wins versus West Va.Tech

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee
baseball team played a major
league-like schedule this week,
playing a total of five games in
six days.

However, the Generals ﬁn-
ished this stretch in decent shape,
winning two of the first four
games to raise their season log to
2-6, before being rained out in
the ﬁfth game.

The Generals captured two of
the three games in a series this
weekend with West Virginia
Tech at a frigid Smith Field .
W&L edged out a ﬁve-inning 3-
2 triumph on Friday afternoon in
a contest stopped because of mis-
erable weather, and recorded a 4-
2 victory in the first game of a
doubleheader on Saturday, be-
fore getting stomped, 14-5, by
Golden Bears in the second game.

The Generals, at 0-4, were
still searching for their first vic-
tory of the season when Brett
Hartman trotted out to the mound
on Friday. He did not walk off
until the game and the losing
streak were ﬁnished, as the se-
nior went the distance, collecting
three strikeouts while yielding
only three hits in his ﬁve innings
of work.

“Brett threw strikes and kept
them off balance,” head coach
Jeff Stickley commented.

Senior Duane Van Arsdale
provided Hartman with a lead to
work with in the first inning as he
singled home j unior Owen Smith,
who had been hit by a pitch.

W&L added a second run in
the second inning as junior Will
Jordan and Mark Sappenfield
smacked consecutive doubles.
Junior Greg Fantuzzi manufac-
tured what proved to be the win-
ning run when he ripped a two
bagger, stole third base, and

crossed the plate on a grounder
by Smith.

Those three runs were all
Hartman would need as he re-
mained in command until the
game was halted in the ﬁfth.

Inthe ﬁrst game ofthetwinbill
on Saturday, Matt Ermigiotti fol-
lowed up Hartman’s impressive
pitching performance with a gem
of his own. The junior hurler
picked up the win by allowing
the Golden Bears only two runs.

Smith and Fantuzzi teamed
up again to jumpstart the Gener-
als to a 1-0 lead in the first, as
Fantuzzi walked and rounded the
bases following a Smith double.

Shoddy defense by West Vir-
ginia Tech allowed W&L two
more runs in the second as senior
Todd Stanton and sophomore
Tucker Bixby both scored as a
result of the error.

Junior Preston Miller lofted a
sacrifice fly which scored
Ermigiotti for the General ’s ﬁnal

mark.

Trailing 4-0, the Golden Bears
jumped back into the game in the
fourth inning, scoring twice on
two hits, to pull the margin to 4-
2, but the Generals held their
ground to win by the same mar-
gin.

It appeared as if history would
repeat itself as Fantuzzi came out
to the mound ﬁring to start the
second game. He rolled into the
fourth inning working on a 3-0
shutout, and the Generals could
smell a three game sweep.

However, things quickly fell
apart for W&L in the fourth. Af-
ter Fantuzzi loaded up the bases,
West Virginia Tesh ’s Joe Craffey
stepped up to the plate and blasted
a grand slam over the right field
fence to suddenly give the Golden
Bears a 4-3 advantage.

The grand slam provided a
180-degree change in momen-
tum as the Golden Bears released
the frustration that had been built

up from the previous two games,
and began scoring runs by the
bushelful. When the dust cleared,
West Virginia Tech had left Lex-
ington with a 14-5 thumping in
their pockets.Despite the ﬁnal
game, Stickley was satisﬁed with
the Generals’ play in the series.

‘‘I’m pretty happy that we
came out with two wins,” he
stated. “Our pitchers did a nice
job, and we played good de-
fense,”

W&L returned to Smith Field
on Tuesday afternoon to host
Holy Cross, but the Division I
power proved too tough for the
Generals to handle as Holy Cross
whitewashed W&L 7-0.

Senior Bates Brown had his
stuff working for him early, and
after three innings, W&L trialed
trailed by just 1-0 .

However, as in previous game
with West Virginia Tech, the roof
began caving in on the Generals
in the fourth.

 

F Ile Photo

This year’s version of W&L lacrosse looksto be one of the strongest under coach Stagnitta as the Generals
avenged last season’s loss to Hampden-Sydney with a dramatic 7-6 victory. ‘

Men’ s Lacrosse readies for W&L Tournament

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The second annual W&L
Tournament opens Saturday as
the Generals take on conference
foe Randolph-Macon College.

That battle of Old Dominion
Athletic Conference rivals gets
underway at 3:00 on Wilson
Field, following the opening
game between Trinity (CT) and
Swarthmore at noon.

Randolph-Macon enters the
weekend ranked 24th in Divi-
sion Ill, one spot behind Trinity.
The Yellow-Jackets are 1-1 in
‘95, having beaten Shenendoah
on Wednesday.

Last year, the Generals
trounced R-MC 18-8 in the
ODAC ﬁnale to claim their sec-
ond-straight conference champi-
onship.

the eleven meetings between the
two schools.

The noon match-up will be
the season opener for Trinity (9-
5 last year).

Swarthmore, trying to re-
bound from a 2-14 ‘94 campaign,
lost their first game by a 13-9
margin to Westchester.

The Garnet met the Generals
in last year’s W&LToumament,
falling 17-2.

Having avenged their only
conference loss of the 1994 sea-
son, W&L is off to a 2-0
start.Junior Duncan Slidell scored
in overtime to give the seventh-
ranked Generals a 7-6 win Satur-
day at Hampden-Sydney.

The Tigers had taken a 12-6
decision last season to open the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence schedule, a loss from which
the Generals were able to re-
cover to successfully defend their

ODAC championship.

Sophomore goalie Doug
Gubner stopped 14 shots in
Saturday’s defensive battle, four
shy of his career-high.

This year’s Tigers, ranked
15th nationally, are anchored by
a number of key returnees. Lead-
ing the way is All-American Ed
Curry, who racked up ﬁve goals
against the Generals in last year’s
meeting.

Saturday, though, Curry was
held to just two scores, one on an
extra-man opportunity. Respon-
sible for shutting down
Hampden—Sydney’s main threat
was senior defenseman Mike
Kronthal.

Kronthal drew the assignment
in just his second career start
when All-American teammate
Shaun McKenzie was injured in
practice during the week.

McKenzie played and is ex-

, \
-.

pected to be fine for this
weekend’s action.

However, head coach Jim
Stagnitta chose to go to a fully
healthy Kronthal for the tough-
est defensive task. The senior
responded and was named
W&L’s Athlete of the Week for
his performance.

Kronthal had waited quite a
while for this opportunity. After
missing the entire ‘93 season fol-
lowing reconstructive knee sur-
gery, he spent most of last season
backing-up at long-stick
midﬁeld.

While doing so, Kronthal
earned the team’s T.W. Martin
Award for “spirit, desire, and
dedication.”

On the offensive side, limited
as it was, the Generals were aided
by junior] ason Hurst’s two goals.
JuniorsAndeJenkinsand Russell
Croft had a goal and one assist

each.

Jenkins, last year’s team goals
leader with 28, again tops all
Generals with ﬁve goals for the
season.

Saturday’s W&LToumament '

game will be the Generals’ home
opener.

Although their home record
was just 5-4 last season, the team
was 5-2 at Wilson Field. The
losses to Hampden-Sydney and
Gettysburg took place at Glen
Maury Park and Rockbridge
County High School, respec-
tively.

One of W&L’s ‘94 Wilson
Field defeats was to then sev-
enth—ranked Alfred in the cham-
pionship of the ﬁrst Washington
& Lee Tournament.

This year’s final between
Saturday ’s winners will be at 3 :00
Sunday, with the consolation
game slated for noon.

Overall, W&L has won ten of

Athlete

of

the
Week

Mike Kronthal

Holy Cross bounced Brown
from the game ‘following a three
run outburst, and continued on a
roll by adding two more runs in
the sixth, and in the seventh to
cruise to the victory.

“We thought we could hang
in there with them,” Stickley said,
“but we didn ’t score enough runs,
and left too many men on base.”

Rain washed out a scheduled
game between the Generals and
BridgewateratW&Lon Wednes-
day afternoon. The contest is re-
scheduled for Monday, March
20, at 3 PM.

The Generals do not receive
much of a scheduling break this
weekend following their exhaust-
ing stretch. W&L travels to
highly-rated Randolph-Macon
this Saturday to play a double-
header.

“The games will be very
close,” predicted Stickley.
“We’re looking forward to play-
ing them.”

Tennis
s t i 1 1
looking
for Win

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team be-
gan this season looking to re-
build following last year’s ﬁn-
ish at 16th in the nation. While
the Generals are still one of the
favorites to win the ODAC
crown, this year will prove a
tougher test for head coach Gary
Franke.

Besides losing several mem-
bers of last year’s team to gradu-
ation and study abroad, the team
faces a change in NCAA match
scoring that promises to affect

the focus of tennis
programsnationwide. .
Traditionally, the NCAA has

played six singles and three
doubles matches, with each
match counting one point in a
best of nine.

In an effort to shorten lengthy
matches, the NCAA changed
the rules this year, placing
greater emphasis on singles.
Teams now play three doubles
matches, which consist of one
pro-set (a set to eight games)
and count for a total of only one
point, going to whichever team
wins two of the three doubles
matches. Then teams play the
six singles, which still are worth
one point apiece. However, the
ODAC is continuing to adhere
to the older scoring method.

“Basically, it shortens the
matches, and that was the intent
of it,” commented Franke. “The
disadvantage is that kids aren’t
spending as much time on
doubles because doubles is less
important [under the new
rules].”

The Generals singles lineup
consists of Chris MacNaughton
at 1st, succeeding his All-
American brother Robby. He
will be followed by juniors Ryan

Adav at 2nd and Jesse Tavlor at
3rd, freshman Glenn Miller at

4th, sophomore Damian Brady
at 5th, and junior Clay Richards
at 6th.

In doubles, MacNaughton
and Taylor form the 1st doubles
tandem, followed by Aday and
Miller at 2nd, and Brady and
Richards at 3rd.

Last Wednesday, the Gen-
erals dropped a 5-2 decision to
theAverettCougarsin Danville.
Richards recorded W&L’s only
singles win at 6th singles, where
he crushed Tommy Nance, 6-1,
6-2. He also joined with Brady
at 3rd doubles to beat Olli
Rounaja and Dan Veasey, 8-6.

The Generals won the
doubles point as the 1st doubles
team of MacNaughton and Tay-
lor knocked off Pertti Viskari
and Petteri Lehtinen, 8-6.

The Generals stand at 0-2
after the loss to Averett and will
play Wooster tomorrow at
home, followed by Ripon on
Tuesday and Kenyon on Fri-
day. Coach Franke cited a need
to keep “trying to build confi-
dence in our shots” as the sea-
son gets underway in earnest.

 

