JAMEB  LEYOURN IJQHARV

N55’, w,immo7‘3NtL£Il;atw.,., .
um. 44 ?ETr<n\lG¥‘li')N,VA .4450 H
‘2:‘. "-'

C, ’ NW.’ .1 3 7931*:

...ur$doy H19

   
 

. *2,
mv.=;ekenawatner

(

hristmas time
in Lextropolis 9 60 t0 N9’°i0"'9 9

Two x-country women

([0

‘ - 6 . 6
R
Z p
at f ,
VOLUME 94. NOJ WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA NOVEMBER 18, 1994

* Superdance
prepares for
 Feburary

ﬁx

By MICHAEL Hawusrr
Phi Staff Writer

Superdance, a year-long fundraiser
for the Muscular Dystrophy Associa-
tion, has already lined up some events
for this year.

1; Co-chairman Tina Hand said the

biggest fundraiser is the concert in Feb-
ruary. Last year David Allen Coe
played. Hand said they are doing re-
search for the band this year.

“A big factor we’re looking at this
year is bands that may be more gener-
ous for charity,” she said.

Hand said they are putting in bids
for bands and asking for lower prices.
Co-chairman Trey Block said they are

1 looking for a big name band. He said if

they cannot get a big name band, they
will look at smaller bands. The concert
is scheduled for February 4, 1995.
Money is raised in two different
ways: selling tickets and asking frater-
nities and sororities for substantial do-
nations. The Student Activities Board
always gives a big donation as well as
other various organizations. She said
fraternity pledges usually raise $100

1‘ each. Tickets will be sold for $10.

Hand said Superdance gets support
from the Lexington community.
“Our food (for the concert) is usu-
ally donated by the community,” she

R said. “That’s less cost to us.

Block said concessions such as hot
dogs, sodas, beer and popcorn will be
sold during the concert. Drinks are

donated by local restaurants.

Organizations or individuals who
raise $ 100 will get into the concert free.
They will get the food donated by the
community, said Block.

Door prizes are given during the
concert and Casino Night. Hand said
those gifts are donated by the business
community. Special gifts are given out
during the concert. Some hotels such
as the Homestead will donate a gift
certiﬁcate for a free weekend as a re-
ward for support. Hand said any orga-
nization can win these prizes, but fra-
ternities tend to receive these prizes.

Casino Night, a traditional
Superdance fund-raiser, is scheduled
for sometime in January. This event
was canceled last year because of bad
weather. Bowling night will occur on
December 1 at Fast Lane Bowling Al-
ley. Hand said they made a special
arrangement with Fast Lane. The bowl-
ing alley will make a package deal, and
Superdance will receive a small per-
centage of the revenue, she said. Hand
said the money goes toward operating
costs and the concert.

Another fund-raiser is “Give Up
Some Meals.” Students, whether on
the full meal plan or the 5-meal plan,
are asked to not eat at Evans Dining

 mHalL».on a’ particular night. Shesaid

almost the entire freshmen class par-
ticipates, who make up 75% of the
people the D-Hall serves. The D-Hall
staff estimates who will not be eating
and gives the extra revenue that would
have been made to Superdance.

«Member of
,iO.J.’s defense

visits campus

'~ ing has been typical

g to the volatile rela-

‘ Simpson’s defense

to disabuse people of the
notion that what they’re
seeing is a typical dis-
play of our criminal jus-
tice system,” said Gerald
Uelman, defense lawyer

1 for O.J. Simpson, on

the unusual nature of
his most recent case
involving a celebrity.

From its begin-
nings in June, noth-

about the O.J.
Simpson case, from
the Bronco chase
along L.A. highways

tionship between the
media and presiding
Judge Lance Ito.
Uelman,
member of

team, also repre-
sented Christian
Brando in another
criminal case. Uelman

t. elaborated on the differ-

ences between the saga
that has become the sub-
ject of books, jokes and
TV movies, and most
other criminal cases, in
' his talk to the W&L law
school on Wednesday.
The fact that Simpson
has a whole defense team
distinguishes his case im-
imediately from most
other criminal cases.
“Our number one
concern is the represen-
tation of our client and

‘giving him the best rep-

resentation possible,”
Uelman said.

A team defense, us-
ing the varying skills of
several talented lawyers,

(gives the client the best

lawyers’ pockets, ei-
ther,” said Uelman.

The money goes also
towards research and ex-
perts who testify.

Uelman admitted that

 

Uelman

at times clients with more
money can afford better
legal representation.

“Ultimately it does
produce injustice,”
he said.

Throughout the case,
the media have surprised
Uelman with their lack
of integrity.

“When I started this
case, I had a very clear
line in my head dividing
the legitimate press from
tabloid press,” said
Uelman.

“That line has j ust dis-
appeared. ...We’ve seen
respectable media organs
become tabloid like.”

The eagerness of the
media to scoop others on
stories has complicated
the case.

p Q B E B possible defense. “We would read
3’ M”-Y AXE“ Uelman estimated about test results in the
Phi News Editor that the defense will cost paperbeforewe even saw
Simpson up to them ourselves.”
“If anything’ Pd like $5 ‘r‘n1£l1llzltt)’I;'not going into medlitas ieqsupegiginogfﬂtt

what people want and
what people will buy,”
said Uelman.

Already, acquaintan-
ces of the family have
told the supposed inside
story ofthe Simpons’
relationship in inter-
views and best-sell-
ing books. This led
to the passing of a
law that, as of Janu-
ary 1, 1995, will
make it illegal in the
state of California for
prospective wit-
nesses to accept pay-
ment for the publica-
tion of their stories
before trial.

This is a preven-
tive measure for fu-
ture cases and will
have no effect on the
Simpson trial.

The zealousness
of the media has also
raised the question of
whether cameras should
be allowed in the court-
room. Ultimately Judge
Ito permitted cameras
duringthe trial, for which
Uelman is grateful.

“The camera in the
courtroom is really our
savior,” he said.

Cameras counteract
the chaos outside of the
courtroom, and allow
“one eye on the process
that isn’t ﬁltered.”

“With cameras,
people can observe for
themselves what’s going
on in the courtroom.

Ultimately, O.J. will

up Please see O.J.,
page 2

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Phonathon brings in $38,182

Calling allows students to interact with alumni

By MICHAEL Hi=.w1.r-:'rr
Phi Staff Writer

When juniorShelley Milligan called
a Washington and Lee alumnus for a
contribution last Spring, she heard him
say, “hold on a second . . . Cheerios.”

Milligan assumed the man was talk-
ing to his wife. Later, Milligan found
out that the alumnus was talking on a
cellular phone.

“I got this huge pledge while he was
picking up his Cheerios at Kroger,”
Milligan said.

“ [That] someone cares enough about
Washington & Lee...to spend money
on it while he’s buying groceries is
kind of cool.”

Four nights this past week, Milligan
and 79 other students called W&L
alumni for contributions to the
Annual Fund.

The students raised about $38,182
to help keep tuition down, said Maureen
Levey, a W&L graduate who coordi-
nates student phonathons.

“That’s a great success,” Levey said.

“This is how we pay the bills.”

The volunteer callers helped the
university update alumni records, in-
crease alumni participation, and raise
money for the Annual Fund.

“We depend very much on our stu-
dent volunteers to reach the alums,”

said Peter Cronin, associate director
of development and Annual
Fund director.

“They can convey a sense of what’s
going on, what’s really happening.”

The Annual Fund pays for about
seven percent of the University’s oper-
ating expenses, Cronin said. More
than half of the Annual Fund pays for
academic programs. The rest of the
money supports expenses such as li-
brary resources, light bulbs, computer
software, and faculty salaries,
Levey said.

Last year’s phonathons raised $162,
616, Cronin said. That represents six
percent of the $2.6 million raised for
the Annual Fund last year, Cronin said.
He said that $4,500 is budgeted to run
the student phonathons. Cronin, who
called alumni as an undergraduate, said
the students reach the most recent
alumni who generally give the
most money.

Inside the former Military Science
building last Wednesday night, eleven
W&L students ju ggled telephone head-
sets, pledge tally sheets, and alumni
information forms.

The students volunteered for hour
and a half shifts calling alumni who
had already received mailings about
the Annual Fund, Levey said.

In between free snacks and drinks,
the students connected with alumni.

Mock Con picks up
13 new members

 

“You don’t feel like you’re impos-
ing on people,” freshman Eric
Reuther said.

“They all are real interested in you
and W&L. Half the time you have to
try and get them off the phone.”

“Generally, I’d say W&L alumni
are very generous and considerate,”
Levey said.

“They want to know how their old
professors are doing [and] what’s go-
ing on with their fratemity house.”

“If you like to talk to people, you’re
gonna have a good time because that’s
all this is,” Milligan said.

Many students said they felt they
were giving something back to W&L
by volunteering their time.

“I think it’s a great way for us to
support the school,” said junior
Laura Howell.

The three-year—old Student Devel-
opment Committee, composed of 32
students, runs the phonathons. Chair-
man Mark Crider offered one motiva-
tion for calling alumni.

“By keeping the price down, you’re
giving future students the chance to go
to Zollman’s and have the same oppor-
tunities as you,” Crider said.

At the beginning of each session,
Levey trained volunteers and answered
questions. Each student received a train-
ing manual which explained how
to handle potential objections

from alumni.

Kristin Lawrence, a vice chairman
of the Student Development Commit-
tee, said some alumni objected
to coeducation. Crider explained
other exceptions.

“There’s your basic death and con-
dolences and sexual interruptions,”
he said.

One woman, Crider said, asked him
if he was “the pizza man,” a reference
to her husband.

Sophomore Deborah Zollmann said
she got a pledge from someone who
didn’t even graduate from W&L.

“He transferred to Columbia and
hated it so he’s giving us money,”
she said.

The alumni information forms in-
clude nicknames like Big Luker,
Straight Fairy, and Chewie.

‘‘I try not talk with someone named
‘Chewie’ too long,” Zollmann said.

Kendall Cruickshanks ’98, Annie
Plummer ’97, and Amy Gorham ’97
received the most pledges, Levey said.
They received a prize, and all 80 volun-
teers received free t-shirts and a free
long-distance call.

Students interested in calling alumni
in January and February can call
Maureen Levey at 463-8487.

The Annual Fund hopes to raise
$2.7 million before June 30, 1995.

That’s a lot of Cheerios.

Where the Annual
Fund Money Goes

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

 

The Mock Convention
Steering Committee has
added thirteen new mem-
bers to it’s roster.

The entire Committee
will be headed by the
Mock Convention Execu-
tive Committee including
junior Bob Ross, Politi-
cal Chairman, junior
David Stewart, General
Chairman, junior
Courtney Tucker, Person-
nel Chairman, juniorTom
Becker, Secretary, and
junior Ronnie Brown,
Treasurer. Last week the
group was hard at work in
selcecting the remaining
positions on the Steering
Committee.

Several positions were

decided. General Chair-
man, Dave Stewart, said
the Committee was look-
ing for people who
are experieinced and
personable.
“Wewerelookingfor
people with an interest
in politics and an ability
to work well with other
people,” Stewart said.
Among those posi-
tions selected were the
five Regional Coordina-
tors. Junior Will
Hutchinson, freshman
Kelly Chapoton, sopho-
more Alvin Townley,
second—year law Mark
Anderson, and sopho-
more Melissa Sawyer
were chosen. They will
monitor the political re-
search of the states in
their respective regions
and act as general con-

sultants on political
affairs.

Sophomore Adrienne
Bryant was selected as
the Parade Chairman.
She will be in charge of
all the aspects of the pa-
rade, including ﬂoats,
permits, and attendance
by bands.

Junior Betsy Blunt
was selected as the
Accomodations Chair-
man. She willbe respon-
sible for obtaining hous-
ing for Mock Conven-
tion guests and staff dur-
ing the event, and for ar-
ranging MC social
functions.

Second-year law stu-

 

In Please see
MOCK CON,
page 2

Physical Plant

Academic Support
13% - 12%

   

 

\\ _,,//“I Academic Programs
54%

Graph courtesy of The Development Ofﬁce

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Clinton pushes free trade in Indonesia

In Jakarta, Indonesia this week, President Clinton attended a summit
of Asian and Paciﬁc nations. On Tuesday, 18 members of the Asian
Paciﬁc Economic Cooperation forum were scheduled to pledge to estab-
lish free trade in the region by 2020. It is Clinton’s hope that the free trade
proposal will boost human rights in the region by encouraging economic
growth and the establishment of a democracy oriented middle class.

Yeltsin prepares for tougher US Congress

On Monday, Russian president Boris Yeltsin met with his top military
leaders. He told them to expect a different relationship with the United
States following the GOP tidal wave. Although he expects a harder line
from the U.S., Yeltsin hopes to reach out to the new majority.

UN renews Iraqi sanctions

On Nov. 14, the United Nations Security Council renewed economic
sanctions against Iraq. The sanctions were originally imposed in 1990
following Saddam Hussein’s invasion of Kuwait. This decision was made
despite Iraq’s formal recognition of Kuwait last week.

The Nation

 

Gingrich predicts changes in House

Incoming Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich announced on Monday
that there will be sweeping changes in the House of Representatives come
January. Republican leaders hope to revise the House’s schedule, tone of
legislative deliberations, and public hearings. Gingrich also promised to
respect the Democrats and to incorporate them into the legislative process
in a way that the Republicans, as a minority, never were.

Gordon deadliest storm of hurricane season

Tropical storm Gordon has left a path of ruin over Haiti, Jamaica, Cuba,
and most recently, Florida. Heavy rains and gusty winds of up to 100 mph
have been blamed for extensive property damage and over 100 fatalities.
Gordon is said to be the deadliest storm of this year’s Atlantic hurricane
season.

Politicians announce future plans

Two well known politicians announced plans for the future on Mon-
day. Senator Paul Simon(D-Ill.) has decided not to seek reelection in 1996.
Also, Senator Arlen Specter(R-Pa.) launched a possible presidential
candidacy for 1996, after criticizing the conservative extremists in his

party.

The State

Two arrested for soliciting undercover
officer

Springﬁeld, Virginia resident John Walling and D.C. resident Donna
Jones were arrested on charges of child prostitution. Walling allegedly
offered two young girls to an undercover police officer in exchange for
money.

Allen proposes Costitutional amendment

On Monday, Virginia governor George Allen, a strong opponent of
federal interference in private business, proposed amending the U.S.
Constitution to grant states the power to veto objectionable federal laws
and regulations.

 

The Campus .1;

Sophomore maliciously wounded

Phi Kappa Sigma sophomore Chris Casazza was assaulted by a visiting
New Jersey man on Sunday. Casazza and Ryan Boone attempted to break
up a fight between John Gregory and Gregory’s girlfriendwho were
arguing in a room at the Phi Kap house. Upon entering the room, “Casazza
was struck in the face with a beer bottle causing lacerations,” said
Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard. Casazza was taken to Stonewall
Jackson Hospital where he was treated and released. Gregory was arrested
and charged with malicious wounding, a felony.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Bethany Bauman.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1994

Gobble this!

D

 

5!

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi Q

As Washington and Lee studnts prepare for their trip home for Thanksgiving, frozen turkeys signal the approaching holiday in local Lexing-

ton grocery stores. We at The Ring-tum Phi staff wish you a safe trip home and a happy Thanksgiving!

Cynics have won accordin

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

The cynics have won.

So, at least, was the conclusion at
which Politics Professor Mark Rush
arrived in his speech last
Thursday evening.

Rush’s speech was the second in a
new series of talks called the Last Lec-
ture Series.

The series is being developed by
Catholic Campus Minister Burr Datz,
in an attempt to break what he calls a
“kind of barrier [that stands] between
the faculty and the students and keeps

. them from having a comfortable rela-

tionship with one another.”

‘ The theme of the entire series, and
the question posed to each featured
speaker, is the query, “If you could
give one final lecture, what would
it be?”

In addition to a new lecture each
week, the series includes a casual din-
ner for speaker and audience in the
GHQ preceeding each speech, and,
later, a follow-up question and answer
session, coffee and dessert.

The first lecturer was Law Profes-
sor and Women’s Track Coach James
Phemister, who spoke Thursday, Oc-
tober 27.

“Although attendance was sparse,
the quality of the lecture was outstand-
ing,” said Datz.

A similar description could be ap-
plied to last night’s lecture, delivered
by Rush; the audience was small and
the topic a challenge.

Speaking to an informal group of
interested students and colleagues from
behind a makeshift podium, Rush de-

Members of
MC steering
committee
decided on

livered a lecture in which he attempted
to address the “ongoing battle between
the cynics and the idealists” he had
observed both in his courses and in his
graduate work.

Cynics, Rush observed, always seem
to “get the better half of the argument”
concerning whether law, morality and
justice can actually be defined.

With the backing of logic, cynics
convincingly contend that law,
morality and justice are
“meaningless notions.”

To the cynic, any of the three is
simply a matter of preference — some-
times on the part of the individual,
sometimes on the part of society.

Justice, then, as well as law and '

morality, is every bit as subjective as
the preference one ﬂavor over another.

This argument can provoke much
discomfort between idealists and cyn-
ics, as Rush himself attested; a discus-
sion of these very ideas led to a “seri-
ous difference of opinion” between
Rush and his wife.

Instead of searching for a complete
resolution to the differences of opinion
often held by idealists and cynics, Rush
concluded his speech by suggesting
that perhaps the entire question is, in
fact, “moot”.

Rush left his audience with the ad-
vice not to spend too much time worry-
ing about the issue.

“What some folks call morality, oth-
ers won’t”, said Rush.

And even through this unresolved
argument, Rush pointed out, “society
tends to stumble along.”

Rush thus upheld the high standard
of the Last Lecture Series established
by Phemister.

Datz, the series coordinator, plans

g to Rush , 

Rush

eventually to feature a new speaker son, who has agreed to deliver his re’ ‘

each month.

Lecturers to be featured in upcom-
ing sessions include Professor John
Gunn, a recent retiree of the Economy
Department, who will speak early next
term, and W&L President John Wil-

ﬂections in April or May.
Signs about future lectures will be
posted across campus, and all those

interested are invited to attend an

evening which reveals the more rare,
personal side of a professor.

O.J. lawyer
speaks on
the jury
selection

 

   

iv MOCK CON, from page 1

dent, Todd Rehm, will be the Security Chairman. He
will be responsible for coordinating all security ef-
forts at Mock Con functions. He will work with
Washington and Lee Security , local and state police
and with personal security guards in maintaining
order at convention events.

Facilities Chairman will be junior Ted Saunders.
He will be responsible for the convention hall design
and construction, transportation, telephones, and
computer support.

Freshman Jason Callen and sophomore Margie
Ford will serve as the Journal Editors. They will be
responsible for all aspects of the Joumal’s produc-
tion. Additionally, they are charge of producing
several issues of the Mock Con Report. The Journal
is the ofﬁcial program and record of the Mock Con,
while the Report is a monthly/bimonthly newsletter
and report of progress toward the Mock Con.

Sophomore Maggie Ogilvie will be the Memora-
bilia Chairman. She will be responsible for produc-
ing and obtaining Mock Con memorabilia, and for
marketing such at the Mock Con.

The Platform Chairman will be junior Andy
Olmem. He is responsible for all aspects concerned
with the production of the Mock Convention Plat-
form. He conducts research and writes the proposed
platform which is debated upon during the Conven-
tion. The platform is the only element of the Mock
Con which reﬂects student opinion.

The next round of Mock Convention selections
will take place in Feburary of 1995. The ﬁfty-four
state charimen will be chosen at that time.

b O.J., from page 1 ‘

have to live with the results of the trial.

The level of public acceptance of the results of his
trial will be enhanced if people can see.”

The process of jury selection for the Simpson trial I
also distinguishes it from ordinary criminal cases.

Pools of hundreds of prospective jurors finally
dwindled down to the selected jurors and alternates
after extensive interviewing.

“Judge Ito allowed the most comprehensive ques-‘,,
tionnaire ever used in a criminal case,” said Uelman.

A change of venue was not requested for the case,
as the defense team wanted to avoid the public
outrage of the Rodney King trial, which was moved
from downtown Los Angeles to Simi Valley,
said Uelman. 3

As in the beating case, race will play a role in the
Simpson trial.

“I don’t see how you can keep race out of a case
when you have a black defendant accused of murder-
ing a white victim, even though she was his former,
wife,” said Uelman.

New computer technologies are aiding both sides
of the case.

“We’re using the most sophisticated court report-
ing system available,” said Uelman. “The transcript
is instantly produced.” J?’

The graphics system used for producing visual
aids has also improved.

“You will see spectacular computer graphics dur-
ing this trial,” said Uelman.

“They’ll knock your socks off.” ‘

 

 

 

ristmastime in

  

‘T/I/@“Li

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

With Thanksgiving injust a few
days, the time comes to look ahead and
start thinking about — no, not exams
— Christmas shopping! But do not
waste those precious hours at home
reserved for hanging out with friends
trying to brave a crowded mall packed
with day-after-Thanksgiving-
sale shoppers.

The shops right here in Lexington

 

have so many cute gifts to take back
home with you, so get out and explor ~
downtown while you still have time.
Here’s a short list of ideas to help get
you started.

Try the Cocoa Mill (on Nelson
Street) for wonderful chocolates that
will be great for everyone on your list.
They also have coffees and other gift
items, but jus tht esmell of chocolate
inside makes it a worthwhile stopping
point on a mad shopping tour of Lex-
ington. Spanky’ also makes gift bas-
kets to sed to loved ones far away, and
other shops do as well.

Caravan’s is near the Cocoa Mill,
and they have wonderful, unique Christ-
mas ornaments no one should miss, as
well as clothes, jewelry, and gift items.
Sunday’s Child and Fantasies are also
fun gift shops on Main Street and
Nelson Street, respectively. Sunday’s
Child has candles and holders,

Lexington shops
abound with gifts

__ choices too, such as Pappagallo, La-

wonderful toys and clothes for
children, and just about everything
made with angels and fairies. Fantasies
has great picture frames, garden ac-
cents, so many unique decorations like
wicker alligators and fountains made
from translucent stone — worth the
trip just to see them.

For mothers or grandparents, the
gift shops downtown are a great source
of cute prsents; try the shops along
Main Street. Artists in Cahoots, the
Shenandoah Attic, and Virginia Born
and Bred are great choices for gifts
with local color. Those who would
rather give clothing have some fun

dies Habit, and the College
Town Shop.

For fathers, they can always use
another tie, so visit Alvin-Dennis and
the College Town Shop (good choices
for brothers as well), or creative and hit
one of the many gift shops. Another
choice for brothers is the Night Owl,
which offers a great selection of 'CDs,
or the Bookstore, which offers a great
send-the-bill-home option. And re-
member the Bookstore as the best place
in town to outﬁt an entire family in
gray W&L sweatshirts or to ﬁnd a
collar for a Christmas puppy.

Even those who must travel light as
they head home for the holidays do not
need to suffer shopping the malls; many
Lexington shops will ship presents
home, but shop soon so they can arrive
when you do.

 

PAGE 3

An endless array of gift possibilities are available
at Lexington area shops. All photos by Betsy
Green.

Dyson gives another View of Malcolm X

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Staff Writer

I read The Autobiography of Malcolm X during my
senior year in high school. Before that time, Malcolm was
a mystery to me. I only knew him as the opposite of Martin
Luther King, Jr. He was a racist, a hate monger. While King
had a dream, Malcolm had a nightmare. In recent years, a
new interest in Malcolm X has emerged. In popular culture,
wearing a X cap or T-shirt has become fashionable. His
militancy is emulated by rap groups such as Public Enemy.
In 1992, always controversial director Spike Lee came out
with a much anticipated ﬁlm interpretation of his life.
Malcolm has almost become a cult historical ﬁgure, some-
times overshadowing King. But Michael Eric Dyson, author
of Making Malcolm.‘ The Myth and Meaning of Malcolm X,
asserts that Malcolm’s popularity has come at the price of
not critically examining the evolution of his thought, his life
and his meaning for America today.

Dyson argues that Malcolm X has frequently been mis-
understood. Critics have unfairly labeled him simply as a
racist demagogue who denounced white men as devils. He
contends that these critics do not evaluate Malcolm in an
evolutionary and historical context. Malcolm constantly
questioned and revised his ideas while staying aligned to the
notion of black nationalism. He also developed a more
international scope. He began to see civil rights as human
rights issue and compared the oppression of black Ameri-
cans with other oppressed peoples around the world, espe-
cially in Africa.

Yet, Dyson contends that today ’s youth and rappers have
embraced Malcolm without really understanding him. They
have failed to criticize his shortcomings.

As Ossie Davis said in his famous eulogy, Malcolm X
was black manhood. Rappers such as Tupac Shakur and Ice
Cube have found their masculinity in Malcolm. Unfortu-
nately, these rappers have distorted their masculinity in
cultivating a tough image and denouncing women, espe-
cially black women. They see Malcolm as a saint, someone

who has no failings or shortcomings. But this is hardly true.
“Malcolm’sbrand of black nationalism was not only a ﬁerce
attack on white Americans, but a sharp rebuke to black
women as well. Malcolm went to extremes in demonizing
women, saying that the ‘closest thing to a woman is a
devil.”’ Today, some rappers prefer “bitch” or “ho” to devil,
but it still translates to one thing: a frightening lack of
respect for women. Although Malcolm amended his beliefs
about gender issues, these rappers have not made that leap.

Dyson also turns his attentions to the new wave of black
ﬁlmmakers such as John Singleton and Matty Rich. Films
such as Boys in the Hood and Menace [1 Society employ
some of Malcolm’s criticisms of society. Like rappers, these
black male ﬁlmakers use masculinity as a major theme in
their ﬁlms. Boys in the Hood constantly reiterates the
message that black men must raise their sons. What about
black women? In many of these ﬁlms, black women are
often relegated to the background, Dyson argues.

Dyson also takes a hard look at Spike Lee’s ﬁlm rendi-
tion of Malcolm’s life. Lee took heat even before he began

making the movie by asserting that only a black could
adequately direct the movie. Amiri Baraka, poet and former
leader of the Black Arts Movement in the l960’s, criticized
Lee, arguing that Lee’s other ﬁlms revealed his inability to
make a honest portrayal of Malcolm.

In the end, Dyson does a good job of analyzing Malcolm ’s
meaning in American life. To most people, Malcolm repre-
sented black rage. He spoke honestly about things blacks
rarely raised in the public forum. '

Dyson provides a much needed critical reading of
Malcolm’s thought and evolution. All too often, Malcolm is
either rendered as a hero or a racist. He was both. Complex-
ity describes Malcolm; he refused to be labeled. Dyson
suggests that Malcolm has some answers for some of
society’s most pressing problems, but he must ﬁrst be
understood. Dyson provides for his readers a fundamental
foundation to start.

 

 

 

  

    
        
 
    
 
   
   
     

 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM
by Mike Peters

\\

PAGE 4 W The Rmg-tum Phi, November 18, 1994 .
W-A WEEKLY CROSSWORD PUZZLE
ACROSS 1 2 3 4 5 is 7 la I9 10 11 12 13
1 - e tongue
‘Sch. gab. 14 15 16 X
ve a
14 men 17 18 19
1§'p"§%§'§§ end 2° 2‘ 2* ’°
1; flljsolenfct _ 24 25 26 27 2a
ypeo er
20 Racetrack i ure 29 so 31 32 as 34
21 Sweethe
23 Negative word 35 35 37 3°
24 Store
27 Very much 39 ‘° " 42 43
29 Liberty
32 Spirited horses “ 45 46 47 48 I
3: Segre: 49 so 51 52
or actors
38A ‘ ’sfra 53 54 55
39 E?,,Vg - as as 56 57 5a 59 60 61 62
tory
44 Encounters 53 64 65 56 67 68 "
IN THE BLEACHERS ‘6P'e’«1?r‘?e»I”°'s°" " ’° "
angers 72 73 74
51 Lines of color
by Steve Moore 53 Literal . ©1§|i)s’1T‘|" gs Media’Services,lnc.
' I eserve
_ 55 ggvgg; LAST WEE_K’S PUZZLE SOLVED 2'
“Belcher, you fool! How many times have been " 56 12 written reminder F L E D T A B 0 R D I E 3;
. . - - do ~ .
warned notto run with objects like that Iny han . 58 main lgléllafy out A I D E E L 0 p E 1 3 L I;
- 60 §.:55°$ 22 T'a,§’°”‘°"° L A I c L o E R 1. II L E
‘ 63Vtlla' bird zsscerii ARTHH5 3U3T'-E“
65Vocation ggvaum affs S I D IE) 0 1 L 3 A 2 E : S E s "
69 Fro '
   = KFTER R;.\m;\N\W7 xwk 70 Fla bric _ 29 ri ‘on ma A c I D L E A E T u £_E_
lN‘V\X*'= N\NEi\C.L.. New mm; .11; “W ';°°" 3° A°f°'s$‘° _I_3 I II N E I T II E R M A
FM \ ilm 731 artso ygrction 31 A?/giiabie l E A 3 E E 0 N ’ A 3 T
as NN9C°““—U°‘;V »° canons nsspscrs
‘(o\) ClxN"Y AFFORV IX 74 sl y resources g
CR“); 33 Ready-to-eat 0 V A L S N I L E S
N\l=_o\1x\ ' D N S‘°'°S. PROTEGE cAIIIII
M mam warn, um Woman 3‘; §|';;"iVn;°“'°'a o A T H G A B o R c A v E
JU‘J W“; 1° W“; 3 Knowledge. for roadway I: I E E [E1 ‘E, Ii E [E] W E P:
. org c\1N~\CEé ‘NW9 sh  grooves L D ~
113; gag 4 R ommotion
BY T5" 5 Loud noise 42 Greater amount
___ g gpcial itntsect  heavily
E-_-_ anne ongue rv
M  ‘stake 50 U-sha nail _
shions 52 Polyhedrons allad 64 TV u_nIt
1? 5:::r::::.m S2:,":::a 62 M12222. 2? $3.22“ ~
of admittance 5 oodwind sound 68 Novel

  
 
 
 
 
 

mm me REPEATZEI7
SETBACKS/N DNA
SPLICIN6
EXPERlMENT$,
CARL FINALE? GAVE
UP AND BecAMe
A BARFL9.

I 01994 ' I . ‘
' @z2z2. Dist. IIW°Mediase~Ioes.tnc. « ~ -

»

Z 

   
     
   

 

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

   
   
   
     
   
   
       
     
 
  
  
  

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

/////////////////////////////////////////////////a

(703) 463-598

\
\

SFOR LOWEST AIRFARES CALLS

TLC TRAVEL

Your
Airline Reservation & Ticketing Center

463-2 197

Amtrak - Tours - Cruises - Hotel/ Car

Student Discounts May Apply
Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Saturday 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.1
All Major Credit Cards Accepted

16 W. Washinton‘ St.

11> lneI.p $AVe me
EA?-11-\ CALL
P800-‘t88’98 

APobHe9orv|eIo€ IE‘
Ag, murwuaiiou
. .

Earth Share...

 p

harry

SAY
A BUNCH!

Ten East Nelson

Thanksgiving!

 

florist to The Homestead

I
I I
I I
I _Now you Q11 luv; the [lust recognized . I  lW8nl'MASr§CARDO Immediately. .
a~°m"s:::;v";::.1=.1";t;:*:3A'e:,=:,'.:: W -
I
M7uterCu¢O. the credit card’ you I |
deserve Ind need fol- lD—%OKS-DEPARTMENT | NAME '
S'lDRES—TUl11ON-ENTER1‘AlNMENl'- , '

I-:MI:mEM:Y a\sH—1'IcKI-:'rs—RI:s‘rAUnANls- ' ADDRESS _
H0rrI:I.s-Mo'rI-:I.s—oAs-CAR RENl'Al.S- . I
REPAIRS-—AND 110 BUILD voun clu-znrr RATING! I CITY STATE _ ZIP _.._..__ I
No turn downs! : S'I‘UDEN'I‘? .Y_'£__!2_ SS3 :

it II ks!
05:2; "°°'°" ° ’°- , I SIGNATURE I
ﬂ,go\ C,‘ No security deposit . '
$359150 ‘“x 3?» ' DUE: Mnsleﬂhnl is 0 Ieglslcnd lndenmk d Matcnhnl lntcmdlornl. Inc.

08'“ SEND THE COUPON TODAY |
YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING! : MAIL THIS N() RISK COUPON TODAY :
---n--u--uQd---¢n--u—---.-

....

 

,    .1 “ p . I.‘   L ﬂ
€%MAe " Moo/t” Wmm mm’ S?/My .%m/ aged.’
GNIGLOBE {W ’
Travel Unlimited
21 W. Washington St. "
463-7174
Call the experts today.
_ ‘
HANKS  ”‘

I 1|

_'F Valley 

Send the FI'D
Thanks a Bunch

E.‘ NeisgnI'St., Lexington

Get your resume to the nation’s
top employers! FREE!

There is absolutely no cost to you. Simply send or fax your
resume,   to:

Crimson & Brown Associates, Inc.
1770 Mass. Avenue, Suite 332

Cambridge, MA 02140
(617) 868-0181 phone (617) 868-0187 fax
Deadline: December 2

PARTIAL CLIENT LIST
Merrill Lynch - Compaq - McKinscy - Time 0 Pfizer ° Citibank ° GM

  

463-984 1

Lexington 0

Goldman ; ‘ s a Condé Na: - The Federal Reserve 0 Bainc - Prudential

riss Bunk - A‘ r Anderson - and many more!

r--—--I----‘iJ’“"‘.‘V".X"1X

UNI—CARD . BOX 220645 I HOLLYWOOD . FL 33022 A

 

 

— Hardware, Paint, and Relatedltems _; I

Open,Mon.-. Sat._ 8:30 am; - 6 pm,  A “ 31-5 p.mf '
   3-2186 .

MINORITY JUNIORS & SENIORS:   A

 
   
    

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1994

 

AI )VICI{'I‘I S I‘) M I‘]N'I‘

MACARONI AU FROMAGE
(EAT WITH GUSTO FOR ABOUT 5|¢ PER SERVING)

cup milk
tbs flour
‘tsp pepper
tsp salt

2 cups macaroni (pinwheels are fun)
1 cup sharp cheddar (grated)

1/2 stick butter

1 tsp Worcestershire (if you like)

I-‘I-‘UJI-‘

I‘

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I Cook macaroni in 5 cups salted, boiling water for 15
I minutes or until al dente. Drain. In a separate pot, melt
I butter and mix in flour over low heat. Then, stir in milk
: until smooth. Add cheese, salt, pepper and Worcestershire.
| Stir well. Smother macaroni. Serves 4.

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Note: For your nutritional convenience, Citibank
Classic cards are accepted at over 11 million
locations, including grocery stores.

 

WE’RE LOOKING OUT FOR You:"
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.

 

© I994 Citibank (South Dakota). N.A.

PAGE 5

 

 

/

/

  

PAGE 6

Ellie ‘iﬂing-tum lﬁlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Giving Thanks to the Alma Mater

Let us pray.

As we prepare to leave town for the holiday, we give
thanks for all those things we have and all those poor
stiffs who do not go to Washington and Lee University,
don’t.

-Nine days for Thanksgiving-—We know of no other
school that gives an entire week, plus two weekends, as
Thanksgiving break. While we are worrying about which
television channel to watch when we get up at 1 p.m.
Monday, all of our non-W&L friends will be taking
exams. You’ve gotta love it.

°The Cadaver Society—It makes college existence so
unabashedly romantic to think that we might run across
the black-clad members of an organization named after
something dead while we are out studying at 3 a.m. They
might be meeting right now underneath our feet...Oooo!
It makes us feel so safe to know our campus is being
watched over while we are sleeping.

°Poetry Readings——THAT’S ENTERTAINMENT!

The Princeton Review—What could be so incredibly
cool as knowing that you go to the school that has the
most encroaching fraternity and sorority scene in the
country and the number three school for hard liquor. Let
us drink this holiday to number one in ’95.

Someone sent a huge and tasteful bouquet of ﬂowers
to “The women of The Ring-tum Phi” and we are
overwhelmingly grateful. Let us give thanks to men who
listen to women’s complaints. Only at Washington and
Lee.

-We are probably the only school in the nation which
has a statue of one of its namesakes lying, dead, in state
in a prominent viewing location. It’s a tourist trap, even.
Think of all the elderly people who will call their
grandchildren at their much more mundane colleges and
say, “Guess what, Dear. I just saw a stone dead man,” and
they will be talking about our former President.

°We have the oldest journalism school in the country.
It goes great with some of the oldest professors in the
country. Where else can you learn all about hot lead from
the people who used it in high school?

°Where else can one move up so quickly in the ranks
of the hallowed halls? Underclassmen have been known
to be presidents of their fraternities, high-ranking editors
of campus newspapers, etc.

Quote of the Week:

“A Quayle—Powell ticket would be unstoppable!”

    
  
  

OPINION

 

Dc-:21? ‘FE§;r‘(uL.
EL€C.'Hov\ COWKH/lt$'LO/\5

The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1994

 

\>re<.\ szxt.

Just Tﬂouéklxk '£‘cL
i4’\)r‘oP A Lt"€'T° let
you No rt-vxttt t‘~\
qouum RuV\ FOV‘

1’. Have a. cmxtkee
Owxé. every+L;v~@\.

53-xeb.

 
  

I
fsumiv DAY...CHA$ul’
me cioops A-um;

{/33

Now that that bul

office work‘: outta the

way, I can Sit back and
watch Sorne ”C°0n51

         
      
   
   

  

Ry

 

 

 

Defeats will strengthen Democrats in ’96

 

I don’t know how many times last
Wednesday I was asked why I wasn’t
dressed in black. I guess the common
assumption was that I should be
mourning the loss of Democratic
control of Congress. Admittedly, last
Tuesday was not one of the happiest
days of my life; however, there were
some victories. For example, Robb won
in Virginia and even carried
Lexington; and in my home state of
Florida, Lawton Chiles won and
gambling was defeated, proving money
can’t buy everything. Besides, people
wear black to funerals, the end of a life
- and the Democratic party is far from
dead -just momentarily stunned.

As a side note, last Tuesday’s
electionseemstoprovideanotherboost
to the argument against term limits.
The people spoke and a lot of
Democrats lost their seats, including

- some who have been around since

before I was born. Evidently, people
are not enthralled by incumbeney. Now
all we have to do is get them to turn
their attention to the Republican side
of Congress.

As for the main point in this
column, I do not think that the
Republican victory is the end of the
Democrats. First of all, the
Republicans have todosomethingwith
their victory, like fulfill the terms of the
Contractwith America. Second, I think

the Democratic party has been too
complacent. After all it’s been forty
years that we’ve controlled the House,
and the election of a Democratic
president made us too cocky. A while
in the minority may help us consolidate
as a party, teach us a little offensive
play, and even benefit us in ’96.

So why will the Republicans have a
hard time accomplishing anything? It’s
beenpforty years since they’ve had
control of the House. In that time
they’ve fine tuned their ability to
oppose legislation, but they may have
forgotten; how to govern. To
accomplish anything they are going to
have to learn how to compromise,
within the party as well as with
Democrats. Already, there are signs
that this may be a problem. Both Newt
Gingrich and Phil Gramm have taken a
hard-line stanceby saying no
compromise. Bob Dole has appeared
as the moderate peacemaker who wants
to work with the administration and the
Democrats to get something done. A
clash in personalities between the
leadership of the two branches of
Congress is something to watch
out for.

Then there is the question of the
Republican presidential nomination for
’96. Gramm just filed with the FEC;
Dole is thinking about it; and there are
numerous other Republicans who are
considering running for president.
When I was in DC last weekend, there
were numerous buttons for people in
’96, from Cheney to Alexander to
Limbaugh, although I think that’s
pushing it a bit. These potential
nominees all want to appear in the best
light in ’96, which may involve
denouncing the ideas of a

potential rival.

I think this election is good for the
Democrats, in that now the party is
going to have to releam offensive skills.
We are so used to having to defend our
ideas from the Republicans and trying
to make everything acceptable to the
other side that we have forgotten how
to take the hard line. This is true for
both Congress and the President. Not
that the Democrats should ignore
anything a Republican puts forth, but

but instead mobilized their traditional
voting base. The Democrats are going
to have to figure out who they need to
win and whether there is a possibility
of bringing them into the fold without
alienating other groups. As a member
of the left wing, I am not particularly
happy with this idea but realize it will
be necessary.

This brings me to the presidential
election of ’96. There have been
suggestions that there will be people

we can who will
f o r c e challenge
them to € C Clinton, but
compro- the party
phi S 611- ...it’s been forty years ffvliltl bcrgss
er a , a n ge
if we Seem that [the Democrats ] when my
to be controlled the House, come to it.
obstructing and the election of“ The main
g o v e r n - . . way the
mem, we Democratic president 61, ct i 0 n
are tngt made us too cocky. A while lh)e1ped the
going 0 e - o - emocra s
backin’96, in the mlryorlty may  is that if
put I yould us consolidate as a party, gothinggets
OVC 0 S66 ° ' one, I
B 0 b teach us a little offensive Cannot be
G ra n a m play, and even beneﬁt us biamed on
filibuster- in ’96_ the inaction
ing by of the
readin the Democrats.
2;
M e t r 0 - If control
Dade phone book. had remained with the Democrats and

This is also a chance for the
Democrats to re-evaluate their voter
base. There was no set rule for who
won on Tuesday, but moving to the
right did not seem to help some
Democratic Congressmen who lost.
Some of those who, including Robb,
Kennedy, and Chiles did not try to
change people’s perception of them

nothing had been accomplished, then
the Republicans could point to this as
an example of how even one party
government is not a guarantee of
action. In ’96 they will have to defend
their record.

Needless to say, I’m looking
forward to ’96 for another change in
House control.

——A more-than-avid supporter of the
1996 Republican presidential ticket, in what-
ever form it may take.

(J11: ‘iﬁing-tum lﬂht

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

Order and rationality key to civilization

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

This article is Part One in a series on the many
virtues of Western Civilization.

A certain person once had the audacity to ask
me, after I had made the characteristic statement
that Western Civilization is under threat and is in
need of more effective defense, just what exactly is
‘civilization’? I was naturally tempted to render the
same reply I always do in such situations:
"Civilization is what I say civilization is, so shut
up!” This type of response can get you far in the
world, as I have learned, but even more effective is
an at least superﬁcially appealing argument. It
is this that I shall now seek to supply. I propose that
civilization, understood to be necessarily ‘good’,
involves three essential components.

The first of these is a desire and appreciation for
learning. By this I mean many things — not only a
desire for scientific and practical knowledge, but
also for wisdom in such murky arenas as
philosophy, theology, politics, literature, history,
and many others. Of course all people cannot be
fully acquainted with all disciplines of knowledge,
nor is it necessarily the case that all should even
desire such an unrealistically broad education —
intellectual frustration, after all, is the parent of
apathy; nevertheless, there is such a thing as
intellectual curiosity, and it is the mark of an
advanced civilization that at least a considerable
minority of its members should have it."

Learning, we should point out, necessarily
producesmovementandchange. Culturesdoevolve,
much to the chagrin of reactionaries like myself,
and to some extent this is not only inevitable, but
virtuous. What this change should involve, and in

what direction it can be expected to take a civilized
society, is a question too complicated for this essay
to address. For readers still hungry for
enlightenment on this important subject of change,
Ican only underscore once again the importance
of reading my column on a regular basis.

The second element of civilization, it seems to
me, involves the question of charity. It seems safe
enough to say that a certain amount of forgiveness to
one’s fellow man is good, though how much is
always an irksome matter. This issue is hazy and of
little interest to me personally, since I am usually
inclined to think that there -
is all too much charity
ﬂoating about in the world
anyway, but even a can-
tankerous misanthrope such
as I would have to admit
that a little kindness is not

‘(C

Learning, we

arbitrariness is always contrary to civilized life
(crime is an arbitrary factor in every society,
for example). This fact further necessitates that
whatever change does occur in a society should al-
ways be slow, since radical shifts upset the delicate
balance of psychologies that keeps a society reasoned
and restrained. The French Revolution is the stock
example of a society gone mad -— a society that sheds,
albeit even temporarily, all real pretense to
civilization. Thus we say that order is a prerequisite
forcivilized life. In acurious way, then, conservatism,
as it favors only deliberate and ordered change, is
itself a component of
civilized (which is to say,
‘good’) living. Fancy that!

This is only a
thought-game on my part,
really, but, as is usually
the case, I have come a

alwaysabaq thing. This is shouldpoint Out, long vxllzfaytof convincing
not too ro ound a int, ° _ myse o my own
really; alilawe are sgying necessarily pro position. It seems clear
is that a civilized society duces movement enough to me, at any rate,
does not execute its and change_ Cal. that there is suchathingas
membersforjaywalkingor do I civilization and that it
talkingoutofturn. Enough tures evo vea ought to be striven for.
of charity. much to the cha- This quasi objective

The third element of
civilization (and the one I
most enjoy discussing) is
order and rationality. In
some respects this aspect of
civilization may mitigate
against the charity I
mentioned before, but I
leave this to the
imagination of the reader.
Suffice it to say that a
society that is in constant turmoil, wherein the rules
of the game, so to speak, are oonstan tly changing, is
uncivilized.

Human beings can only meet obstacles in an
effective manner when they are placed into some
kind of intelligible scheme, which implies that

table, but

grin of reactionar-
ies like myself; and
to some extent this

is not only inevi-

formulation ofthe good in
its social form does not in
any way, I admit, remove
the problem of values.
There is still no objective
basis on which to resolve
many of the moral issues
of our time. Still, a
concept of civilized life can
be helpful in solving some
of them, and it should, at
the very least, put one more nail in the coffin of
relativistic thought. My own opinion on the subject of
how Western Civilization fares by the criteria I have
proposed, both in itself and in comparison to other
civilizations, will appear in two weeks. No doubt the
suspense is difficult to bear...

virtuous. I

 

I i

  

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1994

‘Mattel needs to expand Barbie line

‘GmmNLmm

Betsy Green

Most little girls have a very special
(companion. A friend who is always
there. Someone older and sophisticated.
Someone who is willing to lie on your
bedroom rug naked for weeks at a time.
Someone who gives you dangerously
warped views of what the female body
should look like. I am referring, of
course, to Barbie.

I have to admit that I was never
really that into Barbie. I did have a
brief Barbie phase, but it ended at about
‘I the time that my grandmother finished

painstakingly sewingtiny little palazzo
pants, leather jackets, and prom dresses
for my Barbies. Maybe if there had
been a greater variety of Barbies
g_ available, I would have been more into
her. Oh, and men? If you feel alienated
by this column and wish that I would
just write about sex again, hang in there
and pretend I ’m writing about He—Man.
With that taken care of, I present to you

I

‘’ Barbies That Mattel Doesn’t Make,

But Should.

° Pregnant Teen Barbie. Pregnant
Teen Barbie is a questionable role
model for any impressionable youth.

1 Her smile seems even more plastic

than ever and her hair is a little greasy.

Pregnant Teen Barbie comes with

stylish purple maternity clothes.
Teen Father Ken is conspicuously

‘ unavailable.

'Radical Feminist Barbie. Radical
Feminist Barbie insists on calling
herself Barb. She comesidressed in a
no-nonsense business suit with

sensible, comfortable shoes. Radical
Feminist Barb also comes with copies
of Backlash, The Feminine Mystique,
and Our Bodies, Ourselves. She comes
with a bra and a book of matches.
Please, kids: don’t play with the
matches without your parent’s help.

° John Wayne Bobbit Ken. Ana-
tomically exactly like regular Ken.

° Big-Butt Barbie. Big-Butt Barbie
is designed to improve the self-esteem
of little girls with large backsides
everywhere. Big-Butt Barbie is smartly
attired in dark colors to hide, well, you
know. She can take fun trips to the
Barbie Ice Cream Shoppe with her
good friend Thunder—Thighs Skipper.

-Eco-girl Barbie. Eco-girl Barbie
comes dressed in khaki shorts, a
bandanna, and a Save the
Rainforest shirt. The back of the
box includes preachy messages
about how many whales you are
killing just by holding the box.
Eco-girl Barbie comes with hiking
boots (because Birkenstocks won’t fit
on her pointy little feet) and a
box of granola.

°Bad-ass Barbie. Bad-ass Barbie
comes wearing a shiny black leather
jacket, a black shirt advertising The
Cramps, and hot pink glittery Doc
Martens (I really want a pair of those
myself). A tiny little package of
unfiltered cigarettes, a real Switchblade,
and a wee pen for grafﬁti can be found
in her jacket pocket.

Warning: Bad-ass Barbie has been
known to give little girls nightmares.

-Road Cheese Barbie. (Note to
potentially angry students at our
fine, well respected neighboring
colleges: I don’t really mean what I’m

about to say. I am just trying to be
funny, so please don’t be upset with
me. Notice that I will mock certain
other area groups also.) Road Cheese
Barbie wears pearls and drinks beer.

in a lavender tea shirt and wore a
pink triangle earring. Cool. Lesbian
Barbie will wear freedom rings, but
other than that, her clothes and
demeanor will be just like that of any

Shealsolikes other Barbie.
to chew out There is no
L a m a r  need to give
V i l l e r e little girls the
whenever wrong idea.
§oss(iib(1;](Go, Eco-girl Barbie 136 S bbi 2} n
oa eese - a r I e
B,,,b,e,), comes dressed in enjoys the
R o a d khakl Sh0I‘tS, a company of
Cheese bandanna anda Lesbian
Barbie is ’ . Barbie’s
vastly more Save the Rainforest « I: I I e n d »
availdabulf shirt...Eco-girl Skippen B d
aroun e - o - a
timeofFancy Bflrple comes with Home Perm
Dress, much hiking boots (because B a r b i e -
to the delight ' Little girls
ofW&LGuy B"'ke"S’°.°kS w.°"’t ﬁt inevitably
Ken. W&L on her pointy little decide that
Guy Ken is a a ()0 Barbieneedsa
dressed in a feet) Ind x of haircut, with
navy blue grano a‘ disastrous
blazer, rep results. Bad
tie, W&L Home Perm
belt, khaki Barbie’s hair
pants, loafers s i m p 1 y

without socks, and a ratty hat with
fraternity letters on it. .

W&L Guy Ken, Road Cheese
Barbie, and sober-driving Pledge Ken
can speed off to FD in W&L Ken’s
Dream Jeep, much to the dismay of
Jealous W&L Girl Midge.

°Lesbian Barbie. The many proud
homophobics of W&L might not be
aware of this, but there was a Ken doll
out recently that became a cult hero
among gay men. He was dressed

couldn’t get any worse, so enterprising
stylists can just go wild. Her
companion is Bad Dye Job Ken. Bad
Dye Job Ken has weird streaks in his
hair, not unlike Richard Weaver...not
that Richard dyes his hair. I’m sure
it’s natural. Really.

-Aaron Spelling Show Barbie. You
can imagine. Blond hair, blue eyes,
vaguely slutty clothes...wait, that’s
regular Barbie.

Mattel, are you listening?

1 THE FAR MIDDLE

Alex Christensen

I like President Clinton. I just can’t help it.

‘Clinton needs new leadership philosophy

The time has come, when Jesse Helms rattles his old, withered saber, to stand
up and say (quietly and bitterly in private session with Bob Dole), “If you don’t
shut that shriveled old narrow-minded cracker up in the next week, I’ll become

a Republican!”

The time has come to threaten to resign and make Al Gore president if they try

to cut the National Service program!

The time has come to make Ann Richards chair of the Democratic

 

D

A

tried to pretend it wouldn’t matter, but I think it’s time
to face facts. He’s going to have a tough time working
in the new political environment.

It But (and I think you saw this coming), I have some

little advice that I think Bill can use to get himselfout
of his present near-hopeless situation: Be President.

It’s simple, sure, but it is something Bill has not
quite been able to learn yet, nearly two years into his

‘( presidency.

As President, you have to make some tough choices,
you have to take some tough stands. But how, you
ask, does this apply to Bill Clinton, locked out of the
Congress, regarded by many as a lame duck and
nearly stripped of all duties except the veto, which he

1 has yet to use?

That’s easy. Mr. Clinton, break free of all your
preconceived notions about being President! I know
you’ve read a lot of books, but all of that knowledge
is useless now. No one in history has been in your

‘ position and survived (don’t say Truman either, he

' had character). So chuck it all, forget it. The time has
come to be President, be yourself.

The time has come for throwing public barbecues

on the White House lawn, with blow-up Gingrich

punching bags for the kids and Willie Nelson

that you are!

So, while I like the election results and think_they bode well (almost) any way
they play out, I think ol’ Bill is in real trouble.VOh, I know, I_"ve tried to deny it, :.

National Committee!
The time has come to

The time has come for
throwing public barbe-
cues on the White House
lawn, with blow-up
Gingrich punching bags
for the kids and Willie
Nelson smoking weed on
the roof like the Jimmy-
Carter-without-a-solid-
upbringing that you are!

appointNewt Gingricjhlagriculture secretary_ _in a White

House ceremony and swear "he said he’d accept,
denouncing him as a liar and a cheat when he
denies everything!

The time has come to call up William Rehnquist
late at night and say in your best Nixon-back-from-
the-grave voice, “I appointed you to the Supreme
Court—and I think it’s time for you to go, my
friend,” so you can make Hillary chiefjustice!

Throw caution to the wind! You have nothing
to lose!

Call a special congressional session to approve a
mission to Mars!

Submit Haiti for consideration as the ﬁfty-first
state, and Cuba as the ﬁfty-second!

Paint Air Force One in camouﬂage and rename it
“Bill’s Angel,” with a suggestive picture of Hillary
on the side in a cute red mini-skirt!

Do it! Do it now! Mr. President, you have a
chance to make a mark on history!

Wow. ..was that ever cathartic. I guess the point of
that somewhat ridiculous tirade (not that Bill
shouldn’t seriously consider some of it) was that it
really doesn’t seem to matter what the President
does, most of America just doesn’t seem to like him.
The deficit is coming down, unemployment is down,

‘ smoking weed on the roof like the Jimmy-Carter—without—a—solid-upbringing the economy is coming cautiously back to life, and yet he is still one of the most

unpopular presidents in memory. What gives?

@a .@mg_izm «E9/,i:~ 76% /we t%o.ii% qﬁmiz
TALKBACK
Interviews and Photos
By Hans Yao

 

GENERAL
NOTES

*1‘ LETTERS ”:*:'—:

President Clinton

Hillary and I are deeply saddened
by the news of the death of Pedro
Zamora. ,___._v,,_ M",
enlightened our nation. He taught all of
us the AIDS is a disease with a human
face and one that affects every
American, indeed every citizen of the

world. And he taught people living
with AIDS how to fight for their rights
and live with dignity.

Pedro was particularly instrumental
in reaching out to his own generation,
where AIDS is striking hard. Through
his work with MTV, he taught young
people that “The Real World” includes
AIDS and that each of us has the
responsibility to protect ourselves and

our loved ones.
Today, one in four new HIV

infections is among people under the _.
age of 20. For Pedro,and for all ‘
Americans infected by HIV, we must .,

intensify our efforts to reduce the rate

of HIV infection, provide treatment to '5

those living with AIDS, and, ultimately,
find a cure for AIDS.

Our hearts are with Pedro’s family ..~

in this difficult time. In the months

ahead, let us rededicate ourselves to '5

continuing Pedro’s brave ﬁght.

Sincerely,

Bill Clinton, President of the United

States

Habitat for Humanity
thanks volunteers

To the editor:

Habitat for Humanity would like to thank all of those people who participated
in our volleyball tournament last Sunday. In particular, we would like to thank
PiKA, who sponsored two teams, Beta, the winners, and Sig Ep.

We would also like to thank the Freshman Leadership Council who helped
organize and sponsored a team. Thanks for all your help.

W&L Chapter, Habitat for Humanity

If you could invite anyone home for Thanksgiving dinner,
who would it be and why?

Katherine Sawyer ’97, Ellsworth, Kelly Dyer ’98,Tega Cay, SC-“Elle
ME- “Dwight Yokam, because he’s Mac Pherson, for the obvious rea-

so hot!” son.

celery?”

Signi Page ’98, Boulder, CO; Kelley Totten ’98, Marietta, GA; Amanda
Robson ‘98, Plandome, NY; Margaret Rich ‘98, Thomasville, GA- “We
want the Evans Dining Hall Staff, because, what’s a meal totally devoid of

 

Stephen Schrader ’95, Hinton, WV-
“The statue of Cyrus Mc Cormack
that stands on the Colonnade, because
I like that statue.”

  mourns..death.0fZ¢lm07'a 

 To the editor: I 7""5“'*""=’ "7 “ 7'57’ 7" "Vi r"e's'pori§ibi1ltylo"pTote"ét ourselves and‘ j.

Trevor Harlin, Domino’s Pizza Lex-
ington- “Well, there’s some cute girls
on the third ﬂoor of Baker Hall...”

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
_I

 

PAGE 8 The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1994
ADVERTISEMENT _*

l ..I we (£9; av gzmym/W _
$3“ aamm §ATTE 
I

 

Eﬁxunulitﬁxe mm ifﬂgge E Iﬂlﬁﬂlﬁﬁﬂll [Mop
"V"

YEA?-
BOOK
PIC-
TUPES

FPIDAY
NOVEM-

Earth Share 5..

Emler 1987, Age 5 Easter 1988, Age 6 Easter 1989, Age 7

The S<e<c<(1>1r11<r1<(1>{F D©cemﬂ»@r,
NiJrn<e1f<e<e1rn Ninetyaifaur

   

9 I _
  @ (U)  I I orien Lea Denham.
. . I 5 Kéfsigz,‘:a‘i:‘;;’:::::;::1",3$?‘;SS;:?:;1y;:4A::i?d%§;1{§3;s?{ '
Engﬂnt dlaﬂars mm advancce, Ten dlnmlars at the «ﬂoor I I
V I I
W ' E} ' I I   I If you dohl stop your friend from driving drunk, who w1'l1?Do whatever it takes.
: : FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. ’.
I I  U S Departmentolﬁansponagion
I-----N----If
THC Ring-tum Phi.
97 VCGF5 Old and pro6(ems. Gift wmy, UPS sﬁitptping, gift ’
E333 (ﬂﬁﬁlmﬁgjgm mmﬁﬂggﬂyﬂg  ;}mfm[3}ym~  WC SH“ COIT\C voucﬁers, abvice cmb ﬁefp - Amex, Uisa, cmb
D ORCC G WCCR Mastercarb Wekome ~

 

 

I Hams1eete

Athletes
of the Week

The Ring-tum Phi, November 18, 1994 . 

 

MEANS LOW PRICES!

/——’—" "  HARRIS TEETER

 A A   “ DANISH

  

 

HAM

 

\\:\\\&x$\, I

  

    

/L  
4, ‘-1 . ' _ ‘
. all TLl\.. . Amy Meats John Tweardy
I 6  0 . Junior runner Amy Mears has been one of the reasone Defensive standout John Tweardy played a mojor role

 

that the Washington and Lee women’s corss country in the Generals’ season ending win over Swarthmore
   CA teamhad Such 3 Sl1CC€SSfUl yea_r. _ The junior defensive tackle collected 17 tackles and
In the absence of All-Amencan Josephine Schaeffer, one quarterbasck sack against the Garnet. For his perfor-
Mears stepped up her performance and led the team at the mance, Tweardy was named Old Dominion Athletic Con-

CELERY...................smu< o

I
P   NE  Old Dominion Athletic Conference Championships and ference Defensive Player of the Week. He is the third
31 Reglonals In Atlanta. Washington and Lee player to earn that honor this year.

‘cT"TEEsE...........LB.

ALL NATURAL
HUNTER

E CREAM

    
  

ESARA LEE   HARRIS TEETER   -         
 oz.0    oz. 0 C8" l'800'82‘l'WlLD
ii , KELLOGG’S

 "‘.’|"' "7A°"5 100% COTTON THROW
“ .

 

‘L  .l 37‘ ’. L’.  ‘ W’/? ‘4)4.’4i(’ Li. I /U///.! /0

-‘Y: * ‘T ft rc"“\<.;iI

1

‘'V¥/{’l

..

PE  O A: Qaaltingfntt ﬁzﬁrrﬁttingraity L
- GRAHAMS D‘ E7 "5 P5‘    A L  
\‘d’5'\\ .. fl .w-......,.,.~.  I  n 7” ~ 
70" X 48"

W6°Z'I.99 MR .   Virginia Born & Bred’s

 
 
 

I mxi m Mil" ,3 1“ =

SELECTED
VARIETLES

 ‘LEL3ﬁTELEs...§§EE5o?l99 EEoLL(R)ﬁGESL.AKES.........18oz. 1.59 Exclusive

 .SURE SHAMPOO&COND|T|ONER
; ANTI-PLi3EiiLLiT’ET.402.1.99 PERT PLU ..ffES‘T.”.“§“’E$“Ez5.2.99

‘ PRICES IN THIS AD EFFECTIVE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER T6 THROUGH TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1994 IN OUR LEXINGTON STORES
ONLY. WE RESERVE THE RLGHT TO LLMIT QUANTITIES. NONE SOLD TO DEALERS. WE GLADLY ACCEPT FEDERAL FOOD STAMPS.
16 West Washington St. Lexington

Hamsteeler 463-1832

 

 

  

Last Week:

SwiMMiNc- (M) def. Centre 119 - 68
(W) def. Centre 110 - 80
CROSS COUNTRY- (W)- 1st of 4 at ODAC Championships
(M)- 1st of 6 at ODAC Championships
Fom'BALL- defeated Swarthmore 14-11

PAGE 10

S

("Lilia iﬂing-tum iﬁlii

PORTS

This Week:

CC- Women’s Nationals
SWIMMING- Enory (women)
BAsin-:'raALL- Men- Tipoff Tournament

Women— Haverford Tournament

FOOTBALL, SWIMMING, CROSS COUNTRY

NOVEMBER 18, 1994

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Who would have believed it?

Washington and Lee pulled out a 14-11 nailbiter
over the Swarthmore Garnet last Saturday before
1,025 fans at Swarthmore’s Clothier Field. The
victory enabled the Generals to finish with a win-
ning record at 5-4, capping an amazing turnaround
from a miserable 0-3 start to the 1994 season.
Despite the strong stretch run, W&L still closed
out in ﬁfth place in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference with a conference log of 2-3.

The win was the Generals’ fourth straight, and
ﬁfth out of their last six games. They also captured
their fourth victory on the road this season.

Swarthmore sank to 3-7 with the defeat.

The General’s defense led the way by continu-
ally coming up with big plays throughout the
contest, the last one coming on senior defensive
end Stephen Cox’s second fumble recovery of the
game W&L 5 with under three minutes remaining.
Six times the Garnet were held scoreless after
driving inside the W&L 30, mainly due to tum-
overs.

Ironically, turnovers were W&L’s thorn in its
side earlier in the season.

“We took our lumps in earlier games from (the
turnovers), “head coach Gary Fallon mentioned.
“You can’t win close games with turnovers.”

After a scoreless ﬁrst quarter, the Generals
drew first blood on sophomore quarterback Brooks
Fischer’s one yard touchdown sneak, giving W&L
a 7-0 advantage. Fischer passed for 72 of his 89
total yards during the 89 yard scoring drive. Junior
running back Matt Mogk caught a 16 yard pass and
ran for 17 yards on consecutive plays to facilitate
the drive.

Swarthmore responded on a 4 yard TD dash by
Dave Reeser, but the Generals blocked the extra
point attempt to maintain a slight 7-6 margin for
W&L halftime.

That 7-6 lead help up into early in the fourth
quarter, when Seth McKinley took command. The
freshman running back broke clear on a 38 yard
touchdown jaunt to extend the General ’s margin to
14-6. McKinley shattered the 100 yard barrier for
the fourth time this year by racking up 114 yards on

28 rushes. His 667 yards this year were good
enough for fourth place in the ODAC, as well as
being the most rushing yards ever gained by a
W&L freshman.

Swarthmore’s Matt Minero whittled the W&L
margin down to 14-9 with a 38 yard field goal, but
the Garnet then proceeded to shoot themselves in
the foot on the potential game-winning drive on
Cox’s fumble recovery.

W&L sophomore punter Jonathan Gardner ran
out of the end zone with 25 seconds remaining for
a safety, narrowing the lead to 14-11, but giving
the Generals more room to kick. Junior defensive
back Stuart Houge intercepted a Swarthmore des-
peration pass as time ran down to ice the win.

“I’m tickled to death for the kids,” Fallon re-
sponded. “It wasn’t an easy game, but I was
pleased (with the outcome).”

Junior defensive tackle John Tweardy went on
rampage by collecting 17 tackles and one sack
against the Garnet. For his outstanding perfor-
mance, he became the third General this year to
earn ODAC Defensive Player of the Week honors.

Senior noseguard Jason Chartrand closed out
his W&L career with an impressive 14 tackles to
end up with a total of 257 career stops.

Sophomore defensive tackle Peyton Williams
halted the Garnet three times with tackles in short
yardage situations.

The Generals defense ﬁnished ﬁrst in the con-
ference in both pass defense and scoring defense,
only allowing a meager 13.4 points per game.

The Generals defense ﬁnished the ﬁrst in the
conference in both pass defense and scoring de-
fense, only allowing a meager 13.4 points per
game.

William Propst continued his stronghold on the
ODAC receiving title. The senior wide receiver
garnered his third crown following a 61 yard effort
on five catches, boosting his season tally to 56
receptions for 641 yards and ﬁve touchdowns.
Propst wound up in third place in W&L history
with his 141 career grabs.

Sophomore quarterback Tommy Rueger re-
lieved Fischer in the third quarter, and completed
3 of 4 passes for 28 yards for the remainder of the
afternoon.

For the most part, Fallon was satisﬁed with the
squad’s performance this season.

Generals defeat Swarthmore; ﬁnish strong

File Photo

William Propst has made an impact ever since arriving on the campus. Despite
a year off, the senior has come through as an important cog in this year’s W&L

success

“I would have liked for the earlier games to be
replayed,” he stated.

“Seth and Brooks really developed, and the
receivers and the offensive line were improved.”

Fallon, who is currently 25-14 in November
during W&L coaching career, compared his team’s
fast ﬁnish to studying for ﬁnals

“You can’t cram . l night and expect to have
success,” he explained. “You need to work over
the course of the semester for it to pay off at the
end.”

“We pride ourselves in trying to get better every

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

For the second straight year,
the women’s cross country team
will ﬁnish its season with a sec-
ond place finish in the region,
behind Emory University.

Also for the second year in a
row, the Generals will have two
representatives at the national
championships. Juniors Amy
Mears and Josephine Schaeffer
qualiﬁed once again after second
and fourth place respective fin-
ishes at the regionals.

Mears ran a career-best 18 :06,
four seconds behind winner
Christine Gallagher, a junior at
Emory. Schaeffer, the two-time
regional champion, came in at
18:15 in her first race in a month.

Mears and Schaeffer were both
named ﬁrst-team All-Region for
their performances, while a pair
of freshmen Generals, Carson
Flowers and Maren Wright, also
qualiﬁed for the All-Region team
with top 15 ﬁnishes.

out a strong effort, but we just
didn’t have it that day.”

Flowers saved her best race of
the year for last as she ran a per-
sonal record 19:17. Wright
crossed in a virtual tie with an
Emory runner at 19:27, but was
given the nod by the ﬁnish line
judges for the 15th position.

In their ﬁnal career races, se-
nior co-captains Kim Herring
(19:40) and Sue Deutsch (19:55)
placed 20th and 25th, respec-
tively. Four spots behind co-cap-
tain Deutsch was sophomore Nat
Messmore (19:58).

The star of the meet for the
Generals was clearly Mears.
“Rock”, as she is known to her
teammates, broke her personal
best time by 16 seconds.”It was
probably the best race of my col-
lege career,” she said.

Mears qualiﬁed for nationals
last year after a fourth place ﬁn-
ish in the region with a then-
career best 18:41.

“It is impossible to say too
much about her,” said Phemister.
“She’s just a joy to coach. All you

The Generals were 1, 3 V e
enjoying theirdbtpsg to do
season ever an a ' 5
their sights set on a “Amy ,8 an :)oint
win at the South/ - 0 - her in
Southeast Regional lnsplratlon to t h e
Championship,which the whole team, right
would send the entire direc-
teamtothisweekend’s She really d9‘ tion.”
nationals. _ "lie

Host Emory, sefves every junior
though, was W&L’s thlng that hap- h a s
lone roadblock for the d h ” kmdod
second straight year. pene to er: a t
By taking ﬁve of the ' leasta
top 13 spots, Emory sald er. half-
was able to edge the minute
Generals by a 35-50 0 f f

margin. Centre College was third
with 84 points.The margin of de-
feat for W&L was narrower than
last year, but that may not be
consolation for a team that hoped
to win it.

”[The team] recognizes that
we improved over last year,” said
head coach Jim Phemister, “but
there is no denying that the team
is not indifferent to the fact that
we weren’t ﬁrst. They worked
hard for it.”

On the bright side for the Gen-
erals, all seven runners ran under
20 minutes and placed in the top
30 of the 104 competitors.

”We still had a good season,”
said Mears. “A lot of people put

her best time each season since

. her freshman campaign. Her suc-

cess has come as no surprise to
Schaeffer.

“She’s the hardest worker,”
Schaeffer said. “Amy’s an inspi-
ration to the whole team. She
really deserves everything that
has happened to her.”

What about that nickname?
Schaeffer says it comes from
Mears’ dependibility. ”She al-
ways comes through for the
team.”

As for Schaeffer, the two-time
All-American has overcome an
injury-plagued year to earn her
third trip to nationals.

Last Saturday’s race was just

the fourth loss of her career,
two of those coming at the na-
tional championships. The other
defeat was the 1991 ODAC
Championshipwhen she ranoff-
course and could not muster a
German Silva-type recovery.

At Emory, Schaeffer’s solid
time showed she has recovered
well from the injury.

However, the long layoff was
certainly a factor in losing her
regional title.

“[The race] was hard early
on,” she said. “I didn’t really
know what to expect, but once I
got into it I was able to maintain
a steady pace.”

Schaefferwas suffering from
a stress fracture in the pelvis, an
injury that is fairly common
among female runners.

The injury ought to be com-
pletely healed in three more
weeks, and there is little chance
of it worsening.

Phemister said Schaeffer to-
taled about two miles on dry
land during her recovery. Most
of her time was spent on the
bike or running in the pool.

He said the lack of training
on dry ground put Schaeffer at
a deﬁnite disadvantage, as run-
ners get their conﬁdence and
best training running on land.

Thus, the training she
missed, not to mention a hip
ﬂexer problem she encountered
during her rehabilitation, were
two huge obstacles she faced
last week.

“Her being at nationals is a
hell of an accomplishment,”
Phemister said. “What she did
represented more in terms of
raw courage and determination
than most people can do.”

At Saturday ’s national cham-
pionship, hopes abound she can
improve on her 12th and eighth
place ﬁnishes of the past two
years. Yet, this may prove to be
her most difﬁcult race.

“l’m deﬁnitely not as pre-
pared as in the best,” Schaeffer
said.“It’ll take a lot mentally
and physically. This is a big
race.”

According to Phemister, it is
difficult to assess what
Schaeffer is capable of doing
because of having run just one
race in four weeks.“She can
have a race that doesn’t make
herAll-American,butone we’re
both happy with.”

 
 

PUT YOUR
VALOABLES
IN A

week,and notbeing satisfied with whatwe’ve
done.”

The Generals 1994 season was very simi-
lar to the 1988 campaign. That year, the
Generals also won their last four games to
finish 5-3-1 after breaking out of the gate
with an 0-2-1 start. The Generals last won
four ina row in 1981.

‘‘I’m hoping for a good season next year,”
Fallon said. “Hopefully, the success from the
end of this season will snowball, and we can
roll it and roll it into a giant snowball.”

Cross country: Women 2nd, men 3rd in Regionals

Mears, Schaeffer off to Nationals,
together for the second straight year

Men’s X-country

falls just short,
improves over ’93

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s cross country team concluded a su-
perb season with a strong showing at the National
Collegiate Athltic Association Division III South-
east Regionals at Emory University in Atlanta,
Georgia by taking third place in the team competi-
tion behind champion Christopher Newport and
Mary Washington.

The Generals, like the week before at the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Championships,
were led by a trio of freshmen. Jason Callen was the
first Generals’ runner to ﬁnish, taking 10th place
overall.

Will Olson and Taylor Schultz were the next two
runners across the line, followed closely by sopho-
more Sandy Hooper and junior co-captain Jeff
Zeiger.

Head coach John Tucker was generally happy
with his team’s performance, saying, “We were
pleased with the race although there was a sense we
could have done better.”

Callen agreed, saying, “We ran well, but not as
well as we could have. We didn’t achieve what we
wanted to (a second place ﬁnish) but it is something
to build on for next year.”

On his own performance, Callen, who missed a
trip to Nationals by two places, said, “Overall, I was
pretty happy with my perfonnance, but I was disap-
pointed to lose out to two guys from Lynchburg. I’m
only a freshman, so this is a good performance to
build on for the future.”

And the Generals do have a lot to look forward
to next year.

They return their entire team in defense of their
ODAC title, and a trip to Nationals is a realistic
goal.

According to Tucker, “There is a real sense that
this group can, and will, go places. The prospects
are good.”

Callen believes how far they go as a team next
year depends on their work ethic.

“There will be a number of strong teams, like
Mary Washington and Lynchburg, and what is
going to separate us from them is how hard we train,
how many miles we put in over the summer, and
how bad we want to win.” said Callen, “I think we
want it more than anyone else, and 1 like our
chances for Nationals.”

Helmets make riding more comfort-
able and fun. Not to mention safer.

Protect your most valuable
asset. Always wear a helmet
MOTOIIOYOLE SAFETY FOOIOATIOI ®

 

#

I!

Na

 

