g the mid 

‘ Hldciy Night-Cteczr. Saws in the

50s.

’Saturdcy- Highs in upper 

. Sttndoy-Mesa; ~:=.:r:nr,'. 3.133;:-:: :
3; His  £3133.

‘i
x

  
K Friday-Mostly sunny. highs in

;_u , -vggvnr v.._ 1 1 I   .

-1 mm A Mi 
l-!*,'>t1|,~.!lF‘¥.‘#u‘, M 

MAY 1 5 19951

TI ON .

Satay“, like aartkz
‘Reading at

’\}U%L2

  Lacrosse dumps ‘V91/[I in
Leeﬂackgon Cfassic  

Clttrz iting-tum lﬁlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Ct A 97 ‘3
VOLUME so’, NOAT

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

\.

Q ..Vo§

ts good to be back!!

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Alumni gather for a weekend full of reunions, receptions, cookouts, and seminars.

ByWrLL OLSON
Phi Staff Writer

Banquets, cookouts, special semi-
nars, class reunions, and interaction
between Washington and Lee’s past
and present mark the annual
Alumni Weekend that continues
through Saturday.

The festivities began yesterday
evening with an opening assembly that
featured a speech by visiting professor
of Journalism Roger Mudd ‘50 entitled
“Tapping the Source” and the ODK
Spring Initiation ceremony. Today,
alumni took tours of the campus or
attended Reunion Seminars conducted
by current W&L faculty and students.
Seminar Topics included investigation
of the ethnic conflicts of Eastern Eu-
rope, analysis of the art of Cy
Twombly, ‘53, a panel discussion by
undergraduate and law students about
life today at W&L, and a look at the
evolution of student activism between
1970 and 1995.

Alumni can also look forward to a
wide variety activities tomorrow. Ath-
letic alumni can start their day early
with The Storrnin’ Norman Fun Run
through Lexington at 7:45 a.m., par-
ticipate in the aquatic alumni polo game,
the alumni soccer game or the Law
School alumni softball game. Alumni
can also choose to attend the meeting
of W&L Alumni and W&L Law
Alumni Associations, a seminar en-
titled by “Alumni College Abroad: Past

istered to participate in this weekend’s
programs as of last Wednesday after-
noon. According to Robert Mish, As-
sociate Director of Alumni Programs,
“a great majority of the alumni are
reunionists.” Undergraduate classes
from 1945, 1950, 1955, 1960, 1965,
and1970 will have individual class re-
unions tomorrow evening at various
locations in Rockbridge County. The
classes of 1975, 1980, 1985, and 1990
will party together at Zollman’s Pavil-
ion with entertainment provided by
Heinsohn & Day and The Voltage
Brothers. In addition to those who
returned for reunions, alumni who serve
on the Alumni Board of Directors re-
turned to campus for meetings this
weekend. Also Mish said “a fairly
substantial number” of younger alumni
have corrre back to campus.

Alumni returned to W&Lthis week-
end for numerous reasons. Alumni
wanted to see their former classmates
and other people who attended W&L.
However, Mish believes the large num-
ber of alumni have returned to campus
this weekend for two other reasons.
First, alumni want to visit with their
former professors because “when you
[alumni] hit five to ten years out [of
college], you want to enjoy your rela-
tionship with the faculty as friends”
explained Mish. Alumni have the op-
portunity to become reacquainted with
their former professors and meet new
faculty at a cocktail party on the Front
Lawn this evening.

Secondly, Mish said that alumni

who attended today’s panel discussion
with W&L undergraduates and law
students got a sense of Washington and
Lee today. Musically inclined stu-
dents who make up Southern Comfort,
Sazeracs’, and JubiLee will display
their talents to the alumni at 8:00 p.m.
this evening in Lee Chapel. Alumni
will have further opportunity to learn
about the W&L of today when min-
gling with the Class of 1995 who have
been invited to the Reunion Dance
featuring Spectrum tonight in the
Warner Center. Mish notes that the
alumni’s desire to learn about life at
W&L today also contributes to the
popularity of fraternity and sorority
cocktail parties held this weekend.
Preparation for the alumni weekend
did not commence with Building and
Grounds tiding up the hill during the
past weeks. The Alumni Ofﬁce began
thinkingaboutthisyear’salumniweek-
end last June. The process started with
the mailing of 3,500 questionnaires to
alumni who have reunions this year
asking them to update their personal
information. “We get a high percent-
age of return, about seventy to seventy-
five percent” said Mish. The Alumni
Ofﬁce utilizes this information to pro-
duce reunion yearbooks which are
available to alumni this weekend. ln
the following months, the Alumni Of-
fice sends out periodic communica-
tions to alumni reminding them of their
upcoming reunions. They also began
to discuss the logistics of this year’s
event with the staffs of Evans Dining

. Alumni welcomed back to campus

from year to year, details like the semi-
nar topics are modified “to keep it
fresh,” says Mish. In March of this
year, registration material for the week-
end was sent out and responses were
received by the Alumni Ofﬁce during
the last two months. According to Mr.
Mish, Buildings and Grounds com-
pleted all of the preparations on cam-
pus before the start of the weekend
because “the less they [alumni, faculty,
and students] notice about logistics,
the more fun they’ll have.”

The only fund raising involved with
Alumni Weekend consists of the
twenty-ﬁfthand ﬁftieth reunionclasses’
campaign for class gifts. For the last
ten years, these reunion classes have
“provided wonderfulfundingsources,”
for things says Mish. Past gifts have
included 2 fellowship for excellence in
teaching and the facade located at the
comer of Washington and Jefferson
Streets. Mr. Mish notes that reunion
classes feel a great deal of pride in
providing these gifts to the university.

In addition to the events geared to
the alumni this weekend,certain events
have been scheduled with the current
student body in mind. Yesterday
evening, the Evans Dining Hall staff
provided a special Alumni Weekend
cook-out for the students. At 6:00 p.m.
this evening, the band Allgood will be
appearing on the men’s lacrosse prac-
tice field. The Free Will Savages will
open this concert sponsored by the
Student Activities Board. Beer will be
available to those over twenty-one years

MAY 12, 1995

Baccalaureate
lunch changed

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

Seniors and their families will be
eating out of box lunches instead of the
traditional buffet lunch at this
year’s baccalaureate.

Some seniors think box lunches
are inappropriate for such a
special occasion.

“It doesn’t seem right to me,” said
seniorAdam Plotkin. “lt’s graduation.”

But Director of Special Events and
Guest Relations Rose Gordon said she
decided on box lunches because the
lines at the buffet lunch have become
longer. The buffet lunch, which takes
place on the Stemmons Plaza (the walk-
way from the Commerce School to
beybum Library), used to have six
lines but now has eight.

She became concerned about food
spoilage, insects and elderly people
waiting in lines. She said the student
body is increasing, and seniors are bring
more family members every year. Prob-
lems also occurred when it rained. ln
the past, if it rained, the buffet lunch
had to be moved to the Doremus gym,
and the baccalaureate had to be moved
to the Warner Center. With box lunches,
people can get their food and eat in the
gym or somewhere else, she explained.
Eliminating the
buffet would
make the line go
quicker, Gordon
said.

“We’re try-
ing to speed up
the process and
keep the food
fresher,”

A n d r e w

Schneider, who
collected signa-
tures for a peti-
tion, disagreed.
“I thought box
luncheswereout
of sync with cul-
mination of four
years of hard
work and thou-
sands of dollars
in tuition,” he
said. “lt’s like a
take out meal at
a fast food res-
taurant.”

it should be our decision as to what we
want.”

Senior 6 Class Vice-President
Caroline Amason said initially, she
was bothered about the idea, but after
talkingwihtGordon and seeingthe box
lunch, she has no problem with it. She
explained that Gordon only wants to
improve baccalaureate -—- not take any-
thing specifal from it.

“The thingthat matters is that you’re
eating with your family not what kind
of plate you’re eating off.”

Having box lunches would mean
more work for the catering services,
and she wondered how would the din-
ing services would ﬁgure out the num-
ber of box lunches to prepare.

Gordon argued that the box lunches
are not tacky.

“My job is to make things more
attractive,” he said. “l wouldn’t want to
cheapen [the lunch] in any way.” ‘

The box would have a gold W&L
seal with a blue ribbon. The box lunch
will have two croissant sandwiches,
one with baked ham and one with three
cheeses for vegetarians. Sliced toma-
toes, individual mayonnaise/mustard,

pasta salad, fresh strawberries with
whipped cream and large gourmet
cookies would also be included.

K To ﬁgure out how many box lunches

‘to prepare," Gordon went back three

years and ﬁg-
ured out how
many people
were served at
previousbuffet
lunches. She
said the ratio
was one to six.
She took how-
ever many se-
niors who will
graduate this
year, multi-
plied that num-
ber by six and
added a five
percent over-
run (an overes-
timation).

Shesaidshe
was surprised
at the student
reaction.

“it never
crossed my
mind that there
wasgoingtobe

S e n i o r
L a k e i s h a
Townes thinks
box lunches are
tacky and do not
reﬂect well on
the university. She argued that having
box lunches encourages people to leave
the school grounds rather than to sit
down to eat and interact with other
people.

‘‘I understand why they want to do it
[ have box lunches],” she explained.
“However. it’s our Baccalaureate, and

Students line up for baccalau-
reate service, a tradition to be
changed this year.

File Photo an uproar.”

“I don’t see
why it has to
c h a n g e , ”
Plotkin said.
“'l'heonlything
it does is upset people.”

Schneider agreed. “This should not
come across as a bunch of spoiled rich
kids asking for a ﬁve course meal at the
Willson Walker House complete with
a bottle of J im Beam,” he said. “l think
all we’re asking for is a return to the
tradition of the buffet lunch.”

Habitat rafﬂe helps
build local homes

and Future,” or a variety of receptions.
Approximately 685 alumni had reg-

“come back to see Washington and Lee
in its current status.”

Those alumni

Hall

and Buildings and Grounds.
Although the fonnat does not change

old. in case of rain, the concert will be
moved to the Pavilion at 9:00 p.m.

Honor System has long, diverse history

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi’ Staff Wﬁter

The Honor System at
Washington and Lee is
probably the most val-
ued part of the school’s
long tradition.

While the principles
of honor and trust can be
viewed in a multitude of
locales and situations all
over campus, the puni-
tive side of the system
normally operates in the
background—-an under-
stood necessity brought
about by the strict code
of conduct set down for

members of the W&L
community.

However, this year, a
glut of closed trial con-
victions and the accom-
panying student body
notices have brought ev-
ery aspect of the Honor
System into the forefront
of student attention. An
open trial— the school’s
first in three years— and
three withdrawals after
being charged with honor
violations have also
served to magnify the
role of the Honor System
in everyday student life.

The Honor System

was introduced by Rob-
ert E. Lee during his ten-
ure as president of the
institution.
Before bee,

some profes-

sors . re-

quired'stu+

dents pto

pledgepa-

pers, but,

according

to Profes-

sor of His-

tory and W&L
historian Taylor
Sanders, Lee ended “the
war that existed between
faculty and students,”

= ~»'

and introduced the idea

of a self-policing student
environment.

However, the

honor system in

present form

did not ap-

pear until

the first

decadeof

the twen-

tieth cen-

tury. Ac-

~ cordingtoa

paper by

Sanders and

former Executive Com-

mittee president Tom

Hatcher, ’91, in 1905,

W&L students elected
students to an honor com-
mitteeandadoptedacon-
stitution. This commit-
tee soon developed into
the EC.

The EC’s duties were
to oversee the student
body treasury and admin-
ister the Honor System.
The first recorded trial
occurred in 1906.

Early on, the system
was much more strict
than now. Students not
reporting an honor vio-
lation were viewed as
guilty themselves. Also,
students did not have the

righttoviewtheevidence
against them until an
open trial. Until 1932, the
guilt of a student had al-
ready been determined
by the EC before the stu-
dent was charged.

From 1930 to 1970,
there were amazingly
few open trials. In fact,
there may have been only
one. Students convicted
in closed hearings usu-
ally left school quietly.
According to Sanders,
“The EC cleaned out their
rooms and they disap-

see HONOR, page 3

By Brrrsv GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

This weekend alumni
will have the chance to
help Habitat for Human-
ity and win valuable
prizes. Today from 12:00
to 5:00 and tomorrow
from 10:00 to5:00 Habi-
tat will be selling rafﬂe
tickets in the area be-
tween Newcomb Hall
and the Co-op. Habitat
president and founder
Francie Cohen says the
fundraiser is for alumni
weekend, but that any-
one can buy tickets.

Prizes include a bottle
of wine from Harb’s,
chocolates, gift certifi-
cates to The Palm’s, and
an autographed picture
of Muhammed Ali. The
grand prize is a week for

two at the Alumni Col-
lege summer program,
worth $1000. In a strange

‘ twist of fate, Cohen’s

parents won the Alumni
weekend package last
year. Cohen says, “lt’s
an absolute blast.” \
Habitat for Humanity
will also be selling t-
shirts at University
Sportswear and in front
of the Co-op. Shirts are
$12 or $10 with the pur-
chase of a rafﬂe ticket.
The goal of the Wash-
ington and Lee chapter
of Habitat for Humanity
is, “to eliminate substan-
dard housing,” according
to Cohen. She also said
that Habitat wants, “For
every graduating class to
give something back to
Lexington” by building
a house. The money
raised this weekend will

go to the fund for the
junior class’s house.

The class of 199S’s
house is almost com-
pleted. Cohen said the
house will go to a single
mother of two teenagers,
one of who has cerebral
palsy and is mentally
handicapped. In addition
to building the house,
Habitat wants to give the
family a washer and
dryer. Cohen said that
since the mother is the
family’s sole source of
income they want “to
help her as much as pos-
sible.”

Habitat for Humanity
welcomes donations,
both monetary and mate-
rial. “If anyone could
donate cabinets, fumi-
ture, or something like
that, it would really help
us a lot,” said Cohen.

  

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World      E

Yeltsin and Clinton  
Moscow

 

On Tuesday, President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin
joined other world leaders in celebrating the ﬁftieth anniversary of V-E
Day, marking the victory of the Allies over Nazi Germany. Activities
included a parade in Red Square, the opening of a war museum, and a
reception in the Kremlin. All participants were honoring the 27 million
people killed during World War II.

Outbreak in Zaire

Representatives of the World Health Organization have reported that as
many as 50 recent deaths in Zaire can be attributed to a hemorrhagic fever.
This outbreak may have been caused by the deadly Ebola virus. The areas
surrounding Kikuit have been quarantined by the Zairian government.
WHO is working with representatives from the Center for Disease Control
and the Pasteur Institute to determine which virus caused the outbreak
which started April 10. Ebola kills 90 percent of those who contract it. It
produces fever, vomiting, and hemorrhaging as body tissues dissolve. It is
contracted through close contact, like the exchange of bodily ﬂuids. At this
time, there is no known vaccine or cure.

UN troops face students in
Haiti

On Tuesday, United Nations peacekeeping troops had to rush a crowd
of students to break up a brawl over public teachers’ salaries. The troops
intervened after Haitian police, after tear gassing the crowd for four hours,
failed to control the rock throwing students. About 2 police officers and 25
students were injured by ﬂying rocks or were overcome by the tear gas.
Police arrested several students.

The Nation 

Domenici plan offers spend-
ing reductions

   

Senate Republicans presented a plan to balance the budget by 2002 on
Tuesday. The seven-year plan, as proposed by Senate Budget Committee
Chairman Pete V. Domenici (R-NM.) includes reduced spending for
Medicare, Medicaid, foreign aid, defense, and hundreds of other domestic
programs. Domenici’s plan would save nearly $1 trillion and eliminate the
Commerce Department and the Interstate Commerce Commission, as well
as more that 100 other federal programs and agencies. The plan calls for
phasing out funding for mass transit programs, reducing funding for the
National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the
Humani,ti_es,_and ending President Clinton’s national service program.

Oklahoma investigation con-
tinues

In recent weeks, FBI agents have questioned Jennifer Lynn McVeigh,
21, sister of Oklahoma City bombing suspect Timothy James McVeigh.
She has had to explain her activities and what she knows about her brother’s
movements and alliances with anti—govemment groups. FBI agents now
want McVeigh’s sister to take a polygraph test. A letter that_Timothy
McVeigh wrote to his sister was taken from the car he was driving at the
time of his arrest. In the letter, the suspect warned his sister that FBI agents
may be tapping her phone.

Debate on Clean Water Act
revision

On Wednesday, the House opened debate on the controversial rewrite
of the Clean Water Act. The original 974 act gives the Environmental
Protection Agency the authority to restrict the levels of pollutants that
industries and municipal authorities can put into bodies of water. The act
also provides the basis for federal agencies to preserve wetlands. The
revised version abolishes some of the pollution restrictions and includes
waivers exempting some industries from requirement to pretreat waste
water before discharging it as long as it is later treated in public facilities.
The most controversial revision would establish a new, narrow definition
of what constitutes a wetland. This new definition may reduce the amount

of land of land in the U.S. eligible for protection as wetlands by 50 to 70
percent.

The State

Boy overlooked on school bus

On Monday afternoon, eight year old Joey Coleman was found asleep
in his school bus forty five minutes after the driver had parked and left the
bus in the lot upon completing his route. Transportation ofﬁcials were
alerted by Sandra Coleman after her son did not arrive home from Fishburn
Park Elementary School. Chauncey Logan, transportation director for the
school, said that the bus driver failed to go through a check list every driver
is supposed to go through when he ﬁnishes a route, including looking to see
if there are any children left on the bus. Logan is considering disciplinary
action in the case.

Roanoke police want new pay
scale

The Roanoke County police officers asked the Board of Supervisors to
consider a proposal which would ﬁx pay inequities within the department
and make county officers’ salaries competitive with those in other areas.
The $315,914 proposal would be used to give 105 officers pay increases to
address current inequities. The proposal also calls for new police officers
to be hired at the same starting salary, regardless of experience or educa-
tion. The Board of Supervisors gave the proposal a very “lukewarm”
reception at their Tuesday afternoon session.

Woodrum enters race

Roanoke Democrat Del. Clifton “Chip” Woodrum announced on Tues-
day that he will be seeking reelection to the House of Delegates. He will
be opposed by Republican Newell Falkinburg, a Roanoke physician, forthe
seat representing most of Northwest Roanoke, South Roanoke, Southwest
Roanoke, and six precincts in the Cave Spring section of Roanoke County.
Woodrum has held the seat for the past 16 years.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled byBethany Baumann

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, l99§I

 

Exotic cuisine on wheels

  

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

 

Mein Street Wok sellsfriend rice, white rice,

egg rolls, and various Chinese entrees in front of the cp-op.

ARC reviews alcohol use and abuse

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

“Work hard, play hard.” Washing-
ton and Lee’s unofficial motto coupled
with a long standing tradition of drink-
ing, can give rise to excessive, high risk
behavior. Last year’s North Carolina
Governors Institute Survey prompted
the Student Health Committee, under
the leadership of Dean of Students David
Howison, to ad-
dress the issue of ’
alcohol use at
W&L. Because its
members felt that
they did not have
thetime to give the
issue adequate at-
tention, they
formed a subcom-
mittee dedicated
to further investi-
gation.

The Alcohol
Review Commit-
tee kicked off its
activity withadin-
ner for 50 student
leaders and sev-
eral administra-
tors in January. In this forum, students
made a general assessment of the alco-
hol use at W&L. From there, the ARC

 

tivities Coordinator Michelle
Richardson and Director of Security
Mike Young, meet weekly. The stu-
dent members come from a cross sec-
tion ofthe university, with representa-
tives from Student Athlete Mentors,
Sexual Awareness Group Educators,
Student Activities Board, the dorm
counselors, the resident assistants, law
students, transfer students, and under-
graduate classes. Members are ap-
pointed and approved by the ARC.
The diversity of its members allows
the committee to
gather many dif-
ferent perspec-
tives on drinking
at W&L.

Many rumors
have been circu-
lated about the in-
tentions of the
ARC. The com-
mittee does not
wish to make or
review university
policy on alcohol.
Members do not
want to card at fra-
ternity parties,
make all social
functions dry, or
ban drinking alto-
gether. Instead, the ARC hopes, in the
long run, to provide students with al-
ternatives to typical fraternity activi-
ties. The ARC is not

alternatives, though.

“We’re trying to create an atmo-
sphere where people at W&L, if they
want to, can drink responsibly...and
have a good time with alcohol, but not
have the adverse consequences of high-
risk drinking,” said ARC member
Kim Stoner.

The ARC recently submitted a pro-
posal list of alternative activities to
Dean Howison. The administration,
however‘, still must discuss the pro-
posal before any official decision
is made.

In addition to promoting low-risk,

 

responsible drinking and formulating
alternative activities, the ARC hopes
to begin an alcohol education program
for freshmen.

In trying to shift the social focus at
W&L away from alcohol, the ARC is
trying to defeat a long standing tradi-
tion. The committee is therefore fo-
cusing on long range planning and
change that hopes to reduce the level of
high-risk drinking that W&L students
do both before and after graduation.

Any questions or comments about
the ARC can be directed to Kim Stoner
or Karly Jennings.

began its routine activity. The 20 stu-

dent members, along with Student Ac- necessarily

Panel remembers Vietnamprots

By BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

The 1970’s in the United States was an era marked
by student protest. Bob Dylan sang, “The times, they
are a’changin”’ and this sentiment was true even in
the most traditional of places: Washington and Lee
University. The student protest that occurred in May
of 1970 was the topic of
a panel discussion en-

proposing alcohol-free

day by the National Strike Committee, a New Haven
group that asked W&L students to observe a national
strike ofcollege students. From three hundred to four
hundred students attended the rally which promoted
a trip to the University of Virginia to attend an anti-
war rally. Student Jeff Gingold, ‘70 had circulated a
petition to withdraw troops from Cambodia which
was endorsed by the EC.

Richardson said that
the speeches were broad-

titled, “The Strike Move-
ment: Student Activism
and the Vietnam War
Era.” The discussion was
co-sponsored by The
Graham-Lee Washing-
ton Literary Society and
the American Civil Lib-
erties Union. Panelists
featured Professor Brian
Richardson, ‘73, Patrick
Hinely, ‘73, Professor
Mario Pellicciaro, who
taught at W&L at the
time, Fran Lawrence,
who was the president-
elect of the Executive
Committee, and Henry
Sloss, who taught En-
glish at W&Lduringthat
time.
Thepanelistsdetailed
the extraordinary events
that occurred at Wash-
ington and Lee and ex-
plained their feelings at
the time and how the pro-
test affected their lives.
On May 5, 1970, the
war in Vietnam had be-
come a matter of great
concern to the W&L
community. President
Richard Nixon had just
ordered troops into Cam-
bodia. According to
Hinely, “As students, we
had an immediate interest in the draft...it was like
Darth Vader hovering in the background.” But the
concern was more than just personal. Sloss recalls
that, Vietnam. “entered one’s consciousness as a
citizen.” A rally was held in front of Lee Chapel that

the Vietnam era.

Photo By Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi
Professor of Classics Mario Pellicciaro
makes a point during Wednesday’s
discussion of student protest during

cast live on WLUR-FM
with a six—second tape
delay to safeguard
against, “certain words
the FCC might not like.”
The six—second delay
provedsmartthinkingon
the part of the station.
Richardson recalls, “A
young engineer was
working the broadcast,
and when he heard a
speaker say, ‘We’re tired
of all this Nixon admin-
istration b******* and
we’re not going to take it
anymore.”’ The student
tried to bleep out the of-
fensive word, but unfa-
miliar with the equip-
ment ending up broad-
casting, “And we’re
not...b******* ...any-

more!” with about six
seconds of silence
“bracketing the

b*>l<>l<>l<*** ”

The next day, thirty
students picketedclasses
along the colonnade.
Some professors can-
celed classes in honor of
the protest. Many stu-
dents went to the rally at
UVA and were, as Sloss
recalls, “pretty fired up.”

On the following
night between seventy-ﬁve and one hundred stu-
dents met in the Cockpit (now the General Headquar-
ters) to discuss the problems of Indochina and the
protest at Kent State University where four students
were killed. That night the students drafted a pro-

 

 

posal to close W&L and to set up a “Free University”
of lectures and discussion groups about the war.
Hinely said that shutting down “a Southern, conser-
vative school like W&L would have really made a
statement.” Some students wanted the option to leave
school to protest in Washington, DC.

In a separate meeting, the faculty met to discuss a
proposal to give students who chose not to attend
class a grade of Incomplete, provided all work be
made up by September 30. Pellicciaro said the idea
made sense to him. “When students were sick, we’d
give them Incompletes, and everyone was kind of
sick at the time.” Pellicciaro remembers that Univer-
sity president Robert Huntley was, “not warm to the
idea,” but he “lost the argument” and the proposal
was approved by the faculty. Pellicciaro believes
offering incompletes was, “a very gentile solution to
the strike.”

On May 10, 1970, a memorial service was held for
the students killed at Kent State. The EC voted to
endorse the student proposal to cancel Spring Term
classes. The next day, 96.5% ofthe students voted on
the proposal. 80.7% of them voted in favor of cancel-
ing classes. The faculty did not approve the proposal
and instead implemented their plan to allow
incompletes.

See PROTEST, page 3

Vandalism attempted
in Washington Hall

By ANNE E. ALVORD
P/ii News Editor

Early Tuesday morning, an attempt at vandalism
was made in Washington Hall. Around 3:00 a.m., a
custodian came in to the building and heard an
unidentified number ofpeople, whovwere apparently
scared away by the custodian’s arrival.

Soon after, three cans of paint, a mop, which was
cut off, apparently for use as a brush, and a sign
reading “We don’t give a s*** about US News and
World Report.” The sign was signed “The
Student Jihad”.

Director of Security Mike Young reports that the
vandals appeared to be trying to gain access to the
roof of the building.

In response to the vandalism attempt, Young says
“We’re doing our best to make sure they don’t get in
[to Washington Hall].”

x’.

V

‘V

i

Y

5'

I

7"

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1995

PAGE3

1970 W&L Vietnam protest remembered

From PROTEST, page 2

Richardson, Lawrence, and Hinely
said that students were very upset at
this breach of student autonomy.
Lawrence remembers that students felt
“a sense of betrayal” when the faculty
disregarded the proposal that had been

each other.”

The panelists all consider May of
1970 to be one of the most important
times of their lives. Lawrence said the
protest was a time of “personal awak-
ening” for him.
Hinely agreed
and stated that

he would speak out against the war. He
agreed and joked that, “I was probably
the closest thing to an establishment
ﬁgure that [Gingold] could get.” When
Sloss came up for tenure, he was re-
fused and ﬁred.
He says that he
“has no regrets”

faculty end of this controversy. He said
that he has “no problem with being in a
different position” and believes that he
is doing his job as a faculty member to
“do what’s in the best interests of the
university.” Pellicciaro believes that
the faculty should intervene only with
what affects students “on working

approved by such a large margin of it was an excit- and that he acted hours” and believes students shoi_il_dbe
students. All of the panelists said they ing time that he on principle. _ allowed to make their own decisions
believed the potential existed for vio— will always re- The broad 1S- afterwards.

lence, but W&L remained peaceful.
Constant open communication and re-

m e m b e r .
Twenty years

 

sues debated in

the protest of

Current W&L students do not have
a reputation for student activism.

spect for the ideas of others were what later, Hinely is 1970 still affect Richardson does not feel that this repu-
kept the angry students felt from erupt— surprised at the modern W&L tation is entirely deserved. He points to
ing imo vjo1ence_ Hine1y recans hay- legacy of the students. Stu- involvement in Habitat for Humanity,
ing a lot of conversations with friends Vietnam pro— dents felt that Rockbridge County Big Brother/Sister
in which they tried to “make others tests, saying, their autonomy programs, RARO coaching, and the
aware of your feelings.” Richardson “And nowRich- Cgiyx Ofﬁoe was being February break trip to Nicaragua to

said the bulk of the conversations about
the protest and the war were, “people
talking to each other.” Lawrence
thought the reason for the gentility and
non-violent nature of the protest was
that W&L was, “basically a commu-
nity of people who cared about

ard Nixon is on
a stamp?” The
effect of the pro-
test on Henry
Sloss was probably the greatest. He
had been teaching at W&L for only
three years when Gingold asked him if

   

A protest sign hanging out-
side Washington Hall in 1971.

breached just as
current students
feltwhenthefac-
ulty approved
Winter Rush and mandatory sopho-
more housing. Richardson has now
found himself on both the student and

build houses as evidence that students
still have the remnants of the spirit of
activism that was found at W&L in
1970. Richardson said that this involve-
ment, “carries on in the tradition of
these people here.”

Obituary

On May 1, Mrs. Anne S. Zeigler, a long-time secretary to

Deans of the Commerce School, passed away after a long
illness.
‘l Zeigler had been with Washington and Lee since April
1970. She was well known to many students, especially
those of the C-School. A compassionate, cheerful person,
she had been most helpful to the faculty, staff, and students
over the years.

The funeral service was conducted on May 4, followed by
burial in Stonewall Jackson Cemetary.

4 She is survived by a daughter, granddaughter, and her
mother.

Photo By Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Remember when?

Hem'y Sloss, Fran Lawrence, and Brian Richardson discuss their experiences in student protest.

»« Honor System placed in historical perspective

From HONOR, page 1
peared from Lexington within 24 hours.”

changed to include only the region around
W&L and when the student is recognizable as
a W&L student.

Also, Sanders remarked as to the foundation
of the system in general.
“I think two things that hold the Honor

When asked what could be causing the in-
creased number of reported violations, Cross
did not have a definite answer.

attitude and motives of the EC. The Committee
has made a concerted effort to respond to some
of the complaints by submitting letters to both

gr During the course of years, there have been The first White Book was issued in 1968. System together are 1) trust in elected leaders, “We were saying to ourselves, ‘What the The Ring-tum Phi and The Trident. These can
/ anumber of procedural changes to the system, Recently,aseries of revisions has been imple- and 2) a huge amount of trust between the hell is going on here?’,” said Crossin reference also be read outside the EC office on the
mostly dealing with the rights of the accused. merited based on a three year system. students and faculty members,” said Sanders. to a stretch where the EC heard four cases in notice board.
For example, the amount of time that a student For the most part, however, the system has This year, the large number of honor related two weeks. “More than any other year, the EC has tried
has to prepare foraclosed hearing has jumped remained largely uncodified. According to incidents has brought this trust into doubt Cross added, “In all honesty, there were to tackle the problem [of a negative image],”
H from 3 hours to 48. Sanders, “Thus the system has changed in de— by many. some really great people that got kicked out. said Cross.Finally Cross added that the system
Theboundsofthe system have alsochanged. tail and has shifted and swayed in matters of However, outgoing EC vice—president Alex It’s a tough decision to sit down and kick is by no means a closed one.“lf people have
Before 1974, any breech of conduct by a stu- procedure,while still clingingto the basic tenet says that the EC is “just doing its job,” and that someone out.” questions, every Monday meeting is open. We
dent, no matter where it occurred was consid- that men and women of honor don’t lie, it is the students who are reporting Because of the frequency of incidents dur- are willing to listen to suggestions and com-
ered within the jurisdiction of the EC. This has cheat or steal.” the violations. ing winter term, many came to question the merits,” said Cross. “We’re not closed-minded
‘( — we’re pretty openminded people.”
4
‘T
V

‘Y

 
    

  
 

FREE FINANCIAL AID

Attention All Students! I
FREE Money is currently available for
College Students Nationwide. Over

  

SkYDiVE ViR9iN 3A!

Train and make your first parachute

  

HELP WANTED

Men/Women earn up to $480
weekly assembling circuit

ALASKA

- Fishing Industry -

    

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT

 

Student Apt,

   
     
     

Students Needed! Earn up to
$3,000-$6,000+/month. Many em-

Av a i I a bl e

ployers provide room & board & trans- 2  3 
portation. Male or Female. No expe-
:3.:::.3s::::::.i-..£::;‘.:.*;‘::.':::‘.:‘:.:f From $280 to $405-
tiful scenery the U.S. has to offer!

Call 463-1521

1-206-545-4155 ext AS3421
Student Employment Services

   
       
   
   
   
     

$6 Billion in aid is now available
from private sector grants & scholar-
ships. All students are eligible to re-
ceive some sort of aid regardless of
ggades, income, or parent’s income.

It] us help you. For more information
ca :

Student Financial Services
1-800-263-6495 ext. F53421

boards/electronic components
at home. Experience unnec-

essary, will train. Immediate
openings in your local area.

Call 1-602-680-7444
Ext. 102C.

jump in one day. Skydive Virginias
staff has 30+ years instructional expe-
rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-
DIVE.

    
  
  

  

 
   

"Do You Want.VlSA & MasterCard Credit Cards’? rEAI:’0-S-C:R;--B6x.Z'2i(£N-€-iEl..;.;H;);n.FEV;51§f:
sa  .  iwmmsa-/wisrmdinnoauai. :
A «.cREm"Y,;‘f{,E   : cmtnppmvadinunediatciy. mm ouuuunlot :
W509 "ll MIIbi_Qr.II9—-thecndltcaidoyou I . S
to **~--s.-a==*..::~...':.-...°°°*s-......;-::.~"'".....=::' : rm - - empel‘
maniac! aisii—'ricits'is-nesrAunAn'rs— . ADDRESS : .
V - mmus
REPAlR$—AND1'0Bl.llDYOURCllEDl‘l‘RATINOI : Cl'lY sTATE...zlP_____. r. 
Y wmﬂﬁa Io tun downs! I PHONE 55'' :
mam no credit checks! I SIGNATURE u
mlrﬁsﬂag '9 5993'“! 49905“! ' ucrizuniac-nu-uqaumuu-om-ndnunaomu-en-uiountuu '
e\t.:,gq¢" SE.” "E coupon Ton" : VIsnIIIIq1sIciduIdmInidVlSAu$A.hi'.IlI!VBAh!IInIovd I
,j.- Youn CREDIT cums ARE iuimue! . :

’/cc
I

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1995

By CELESTE RAsMUssEN
Phi Staff Writer

In a school whose motto translates
to “not unmindful of the future,” a
recycling program would seem to be a
logical endeavor. Unfortunately, there
are only limited recycling opportuni-
ties on the W&L campus. This may
soon change, for over the past few
years campus-wide recycling has
gained increased support amongst stu-
dents and faculty alike.

The recycling question was first
addressed by members of the Outing
Club about four years ago when white
paper recycling was started on the Hill.

 

Due to the success of this program, the
Outing Club, in conjunction with the
Freshman Leadership Council, has in-
stituted a petition calling for an expan-
sion of the program currently on cam-
pus. Freshmen Kate Giese, Ramey
Harris, Bjomen duPont, and Jenny Wil-
liams have been particularly active in
the spread of the petition, as well as
Outing Club advisor Kirk Follo. The
petition calls for an expansion in “the
recycling program to include items such
as glass, plastic, and newspaper,” as
well as increased “accessibility of re-
cycling locations for the university
community.”

According to Kate Giese, the peti-
tion currently has around 750 signa-
tures on it. Organizers hope to get at

?’§1513R

   

   
use ‘PROGRAM Ar .GA_INS* WHERE CANS  ,B'Ei—.ff=:
. _t3<;tr(;Lts13j, AS WELL‘ As IN MANY or THE I<‘RAT'ERNI"I’Yv 

 

 

least 1000 signatures before they write
a cover letter and present it to presi-
dent-elect Elrod for consideration. So
far, most of the signatures have been
collected outside of the Co-op and in
the Dining Hall; however, they soon
hope to reach people that do not fre-
quent these areas.

W&L has had recycling programs
in the past, but they have not had much
success. According to Ramey Harris,
one program where students collected
the recyclables failed because of the
time burdens involved. Furthermore,
ﬁre codes in the dorms prohibit bins
from being placed in the hallways. The
supporters of the petition hope that
B&G would run the program, but this
brings up logistical questions such as

the cost of buying bins and potentially
hiring a new employee.

However, according to Harris, once
the initial planning is completed, “re-
cycling is not hard to do.” She suggests
that drums could be placed in the Co-
op, dorms, and D-Hall for the collec-
tion of plastic, aluminum, and other
recyclables. Another suggestion, as
stated in a preliminary report by the
Outing Club, is to start a recycling
center near Gaines or Doremus. Such a
center would be accessible both to stu-
dents who live off campus and those
who drive to school.

The report also states that there are
many steps that could be taken in the
interim to help cut down on waste, such
as the elimination of styrofoam cups

‘V1/cﬁ“L rfe
Recycling at W&L

Students look to the future

and bowls on campus dining facilities
and the switch, by the individual aca-
demic departments, to recycled Xerox
paper. There is also a recycling center
maintained by Rockbridge Regional
Solid Waste Management in town.
However, since it is located behind
Kroger Grocery Store, it is not
accessable to students who don’t have
access to a car.

Many groups of students, such as
fraternity houses and Gaines residents,
have also started their own recycling
programs. For students interested in
recycling tips, the Outing Club and the
Ofﬁce of Residence life has published
a pamphlet with several useful tips.

As Kate Giese notes, the absence of
a recycling program puts W&L behind

 

PAGE 4

  

other schools. She was “shocked” when
she visited campus and saw no recy-
cling effort. She says that “every other
college has one and this is an embar-
rassment to W&L.” Students seem to
be united behind the establishment of a
program, though.

As Follo states, “This is not a battle
between conservative and liberal stu-
dents.” Because of this enthusiastic
student response and the increased fac-
ulty interest, it is probable that a pro-
gram will at least be looked into.

However, as the OutingClub mem-
bers remind us, the ﬁght is far from
over. They encourage students to sign
the petition and attend their meetings if
interested in helping to expand recy-
cling opportunities on campus.

Sister Souljah is in your face
and ain't taking No Disrespect

--r \/ """""" -\._..
I
Sister Souljah

‘-3 ;,‘ No Disrespect

      
 
 

  

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

Sister Souljah has made a name for herself as an ABF (angry black female).
President Clinton catapulted her name into public infamy when he criticized her
remarks during the Dos Angeles riots. She said if blacks killed blacks all year,
then why not have a week to kill white people, but Clinton took her statement out
of context. Apparently, she was simply expressing the sentiment of some of the
rioters. Some political analysts argued that Clinton used his criticism of Souljah
as a strategy to keep his white supporters. In 1992, her rap album, 360 Degrees
of Power, and video, “Slavery’s Back in Effect,” plus her many appearances on
talk shows placed her “ no b.s.” voice of black rage in the American spotlight.
Now readers can figure why she is so angry by picking up her first
book, No Disrespect.

And no disrespect does she mean as she takes her readers into a no-holds
barred view of her life and her thoughts right from the beginning:

‘‘I never said I was an angel. Nor am I innocent or holy like the Virgin Mary.
What I am is natural and serious and as sensitive as an open nerve on an ice cube.”

Divided into chapters named after people who have inﬂuenced her life, she
starts with her life in the Bronx in New York. Her father, once a hard-working
man with a grand heart, suffers from epilepsy and loses his job and his will to live.
Her mother, trying to raise her children on her own, has men coming in and out
of Souljah’s eyes as she grows up. Unemployed men litter the streets and make
babies without taking any responsibility while welfare makes fools out
of its recipients.

Souljah reads voraciously and makes it to Rutgers University in New Jersey.
As she awakens politically, she also awakens emotionally and sexually.

Reading books opens her up to her black history and culture. At the same time,
she enters into a serious relationship with a senior political science and history
major. Throughout the novel she gets involved with other men, including a
married man and a drug dealer. While she’s at it, she befriends a lesbian and a
woman who has a knack ofjuggling two to three men at a time (like the woman
in Spike Lee’s She’s Gotta Have It).

Did I like this book? Yes. Did I agree with everything in it? No. ljust couldn’t
put it down. She comes to you straight and uncensored. Her honesty stuck me.
She exposes parts of her life that are often embarrassing. I argued with her.
Sometimes I wanted to applaud her courage and other times I wanted to scream
at her stupidity. She has the idea that black women should openly share their men
because of the shortage of black men. Mmmm. I don’t think so. It sure as hell
doesn’t make any sense to me. But other things spoke to me; her rage spoke to me;

I her intellect spoke to me; her rapid-ﬁre thoughts spoke to me. Souljah made me

think about things that are uncomfortable, things that are real, things that don’t
put a smile on your face but a little tear in your eye.

More impor-
tantly, her story
never bored me.
It made me angry;
it made me sad; it
made me laugh; it
did all of these
things. At times, I
thought she was
too militant and
too narrow-
minded and
sometimes infuri-
ating. I certainly
got sick and tired
of passages
like this:

“He looked
into my eyes and I
could feel how
much he liked me
and how attracted
he was. His eyes
lowered from my
eyes and he swept
by my breasts, my
newly achieved
firm waistline,
and landed on my
mother-of-the-
world hips...She
knew she couldn’t
ﬁght the African
body and after I
was sure Nathan
had seen it all, I
sat down.”

In almost ev-
ery chapter, she
devotes a paragraph or two to how drooling-to-the-ground beautiful she is. I’m
not saying she’s ugly, but she is deﬁnitely not all that. Souljah has too big an ego.
I have no problem with self-confidence, but Souljah comes off as arrogant. And
it’s her arrogance that sometimes weakens the book.

But I knew where she stood and where she was coming from. Whether you
agree with her or not, she serves notice on what she thinks on relationships,
politics and race. Above all, she writes what she means and what she thinks with
malice to no one and no disrespect.

No Disrespect

sf ..... r ..................... 
s iasu :75 h

     
    

  

Sister Souljah fires back honesty
and candor in No Disrespect.

 

¢lllDlfl’5 ‘WfDDlI70 fIDfl2ffCT Dfllf IlOV|f

 

Muriel’s Weddirzg—uﬁri‘ri‘t*

The typical date movie is long on ﬂuff and short on
substance. Movie-makers seem afraid that serious issues
would ruin the light-hearted romance their movies promise
to deliver. Luckily, the makers of this ﬁlm decided to go
against that tradition, and so Muriel ’s Wedding is a charm-
ing yet bittersweet movie — perfect for a date.

Muriel Heslop is a chubby, unpopular girl from a
dysfunctional family. She is unable to hold a job, has never
had a boyfriend, her father constantly insults her, and she
has no prospects.

Then she meets an old friend who, though also not from
the “in” crowd, nevertheless loves life and enjoys herself
thoroughly. This new friendship slowly changes Muriel’s
life, giving her self-esteem and weaning her from the need
for acceptance through marriage, a goal which had always
dominated her dreams.

The ﬁrst thing you are likely to notice about this ﬁlm is
that, as I was told, it looks like a Mentos commercial.
People seem a little too perky, the clothes are pre-grunge,
and the English is accented. However, it gradually becomes
apparent that Muriel ’s life really does suck — one look at her
disgusting siblings convinces one ofthat.

So the obscure cast, known mostly through other Aus-
tralian features like Strictly Ballroom, is given a tough job
of balancing our disgust, pity and sympathy for the various
characters. Toni Collette, who plays Muriel, does this
admirably, mostly through the light giggles and bubbly
laughter which will suddenly possess her chubby body.

The emotional catalyst throughout the ﬁlm is Rhonda

(Rachel Grifﬁths), the old acquaintance whose joie de vivre
inspires Muriel. The power Grifﬁths gives her character,
especially after she becomes afflicted with cancer, is mov-
ing, yet never over-played.

The supporting cast does a similarly good job, especially
Muriel’s father (Bill Hunter). As the adulterous small—town
councilman whose local boosterism covers his political
failure, he gives a profound performance. Especially mov-
ing is the scene where he reveals, subtly and barely, that he
has always suffered from the same self-esteem problems
that now afflict Muriel.

P.J. Hogan is responsible for both the writing and direct-
ing, and he does both beautifully. The direction is admirably
light-handed, and the screenplay is a testimony to letting the
actors do their thing, without interference from troublesome
plot twists or unnecessary and overly dramatic soliloquies.

What I found most amazing about the ﬁlm was how
easily it swung me from one emotion to the next. The actors
and the script together are marvelous at keeping all the
battling thoughts in line: one moment we reviled by Muriel
or her family, the next we are laughing with her or crying for
her. These mood swings never seem artiﬁcial or too quick —
just part of the intense, roller-coaster ride of Muriel’s
personal life.

To top off everything else good about this ﬁlm, the movie

is full of references to and songs by Abba, the seventies

Swedish supergroup (to paraphrase something Muriel says
to convince us of her new-found success: “I used to listen to
Abba all day. Now I don’t have to listen to Abba at all. Now
my life is as good as an Abbasongl”). Be forewarned — if you
see this movie, you will want to own an Abba record; I hope
Wayne is stocking up.

Muriel’s Wedding is a bittersweet ﬁlm which provides
both laughs and tears. The acting is superior, yet homely, the
script is bare and elegant, and the soundtrack is totally
groovy. This is a sort of small ﬁlm which might not appear
in dollar theaters, so go see it now while it’s still on the
big screen.

Rating Scale

rftrzérilrsftr-Go by this as soon
as it comes out on video. It is
an instant classic. “You’lI
laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe,
just maybe, you’ll learn
something about yourself.”
ﬂritik-Go see this film
now, while it’s still on the big
screen. It’s worth a few Os-
car nominations and the seven
bucks you’ll pay if you see it
outside Lexin ton. Overall,
“Better than ats!”
tki}-Oka , so there have
been better ilms. Neverthe-
less, it is a good example of
its genre, and you s ould
grobably see it on videotape.
till, probably “Better than
Cats!’
iﬁr-It happens to be on
HBO, and you’re blowing off
tomorrow’s reading. Al-
though your time would prob-
ably be better spent on your
education, its free and you’re
bored, so go ahead and watch

0-Even if its free and your
best friend said he never
laughed harder, trust me, this
one sucks. Don’t waste your
time, or at least don’t waste it
on this. (There’s always

MTV.)

 

    

PAGE 5

they would like to see in a new store.
The unanimous response was a desire

cappaccino, lattes, and mochas. These
drinks can also be served iced, a popu-

and head to the Lexington Coffee Roast-
ing Company. You’ll be glad you did.

W&LlFE

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1995

V
. Oi  6V5 8 FlF|O5pi|6lf‘6 an 6XOt|C CHOIC66
to keep the same “quiet, intimate set- lar choice durin warmer weather. lf ' F -   .- ' 7
By BETSY GREEN ting,” but with more room. you don’t care gfor coffee, delicious  
' ° The Lexington Coffee Roasting Italian sodas can be made with many '
Q Phi Staff Wrlter Company achieved this goal. Dark different flavors of syrup.
hardwood ﬂoors, softlighting, and com- The most unique drink available at
Coffee is one ofthe finest pleasures foi1ably—sized tables seem to welcome the Lexington Coffee Roasting Com-
in life, lt’s not just a drink; it’s an customers to spend some time reading pany is the Follocino. If you need
experience, There’s nothing quite like or talking to friends whilethey sip their caffeine, the Follocino is the drink for
g the smell of freshly roasted coffee coffee. you. A double shot of espresso is
beans, the feel of the warm mug in your The store usually plays relaxingclas- topped with just a tad of foamed milk.
hands, and the exhilaration of great sical music, with occasional jazz and According to the menu board, a small
conversation over a hot cup of joe_ big band music. Follocino is available, but anything
Thankfully, Washington and Lee stu— Atmosphere will only do so much larger is “Not advised.”
, dents have a new place to go for great for a coffeehouse. Great coffee is key, The Follocino is named after Pro-
‘ coffee in a relaxed atmosphere and the Lexington Coffee Roasting fessor Kirk Follo, who Scholl says
The Lexington Coffee Roasting Company has it. Beans are roasted comes to the store most afternoons for
Company has a new location that of. daily for a freshness that’s apparent in his daily dose.
fers the same great coffee in a larger, every cup. Scholl says the most popu- The Lexington Coffee Roasting
more comfortable setting lar blend is the Blue Ridge Blend. This Company also sells a variety of coffee-
X. The Lexington Coffee Roasting brewisafull-bodied,traditionalbreak- related products. Burr grinders, French
Company moved from its old location fast coffee that Scholl calls a “real press coffee makers, Italian syrups, all
atzzwestwashington streettojustup crowd pleaser.” kinds of coffee beans, and different
the street at 9 west Washington street_ Also popularisthe General’sBlend, coffee cups allow customers to repro-
owner Melissa Scholl said that the named in honor of Washington and duce the same great coffee at home.
' change was mainly to increase space_ Lee. General’s Blend has a deep, in- Most people who know me know
‘I “we need more space to increase seat- tense ﬂavor, but is still very smooth. If that I love coffee. My standards are
ing, to create a bigger workspace for ﬂavoredcoffee iswhat you want, South- high,andthe Lexington Roasting Com-
us, and to consolidate out retail and em Pecan is an excellent choice. pany exceeds them. The setting is
wholesale roasting businesses in one The Lexington Coffee Roasting comfortable and the coffee is excel-
building,” said scholl_ Company alsooffersavariety ofspeci— lent. So, the next time you need an s
it Scholl asked her customers what ality espresso drinks, such as afternoon break, walk past the Co—op Photo by Betsy Green The Ringmum gm

The Lexington Coffee Roasting Company offers delicious coffee to W&L students.

tumes for $8, and their dates were strongly encouraged to
wear ﬂoor length forrnals. It was held in late January, and
featured The Lettermen Joe and Eddie as well as the "Old
Glen Miller Orchestra.

The production of ‘Merchant of Venice’ was per-
formed by the theater department in observance of the four
hundredth anniversary of William Shakespeares birth.

By COURTNEY E. MILLER
Phi Features Editor

 PEMEMBEP 1
Thirty years ago, theatre productions were perfoniied in ‘W 2 A r 

’ the Troubadour, students could make honor roll with a mere
2.5 G.P.A., and Verne Canfield began his coaching career.

The class of 1965 will be just one of the class reunions held

Lenfest Center. . . . .463-8000

 

“-.' this weekend. Sigman Phi Epsilon won the revived Interfratemity
Class  _ Alumni Weekend brings back memories of the way Council's Songfestwith,:‘Shena.dndoah”arjdarousingyet May 19-22 Mcgeth
things used to be, and those good ole days, when the only humouous rendition of Salvation Army. May 2 6 Presidental Gala

Verne Canfield, coaching legend ended his last season
coaching the Generals this year. In 1965 he had just
started his heavy recruitment for W&L.

The students had to attend Saturday classes after the
concerts of Chuck Berry, Dionne Warwick and Mary
Wells for Springs Weekend. Their dates however had bus
transportation to and from the local girls schools.

girls at W&L were visitors from the local girls schools, and
the biggest debate on campus dealt with the assimilation of

V African Americans into the campus.
The class of 1965 had great musical taste, bringing to the
first year that tuxedos were not required for Openings. The class of 1965 graduated 265 men on June 4 on the
For Fancy Dress, students could rent ‘Showboat’ cos- front lawn of the campus.

campus musical legends like James Brown and The Famous
WHEN   .

_ (Reserve your tickets today)
State Theatre. . . . .463—3424
May 12-18 Goofy Movie
Village of the Damned

Openings. Headlining Openings were the Shirelles., and _
KlSS of Death

Flames. For the first time, tuxedos were not required for

"¥IR.;- mgsésighrigignmasmbmim
s-ZS

O1995‘|’ribuneModa$oivioos.|nc.
Aurugmsnesoma.
921-

T he Ring-tum

    

  
 
 
      
       
   
   
   
   
     
   

 

 

   

Ph: V ll V
9" An impolrtant part a ey  E s 
of the daily diet.
C°“‘ai“S half as Hardware Paint and Related Items
g much as fat as other ’ ’ L
Campus pubhcatlolm Open Mon. — Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186
W
7
IN THE BLEACHERS
. Q ‘(_ by Steve Moore
.2 M N - ‘-

*1 Sorry, Ernie. Time to pull the plug. Da’1‘_Srl1-i;-‘r31‘o']*e$s‘?t(5)‘(>)'T(:‘r3C‘)':’:I‘de:(5i.§'$e- .1»-;  T

V 102 W. WASHINGTON ST. 
463_5383 THE SOURCE 

FOR W&L GEAR 

. WELCOME W&L ALUMNI  
’ Lewngton i
— Woolrich - Duckhead 464‘5O0O §

« — Ray—Bans — Red Wing Boots 3
- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos 

, - Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets ApartmentforRent f:
- W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars 3 West Preston ‘

- Embassy Boxers I/3\°W“S‘a“5
W partment
Alumni Special Within Walking
Suits and Sportcoats D‘Stag:fn‘;f1:V&L

7 20% Off Call 261-6478 After 
 V Open This Sunday at 10:00 21m. 5=00 PM E
‘V! I

 

MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE

 

 

PAGE 6

@112 illing-tum iﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Friendly Advice

I was the beneficiary of a dubious honor this Spring Term.
Due to an unfortuante incident a couple of months ago
(which most of you read about in the parody issue) I was
sentenced, er.. invited, to attend Rockbridge County’s Alco-
hol Safety Action Program. The instuctor was one of
Lexington's finest. Originally, I viewed this course as a
mounmeiital inconvenice for the class was held on Thursday
nights, otherwise known as Phi hell night.

Following the first class, however, I realized the class
might not be that awful. After all, it was entertaining,
engaging, and informative. We discussed our arrests which
was amusing for many. We watched movies on drinking
and driving (you know, the ones they showed you before
prom to scare you into sober driving). We even practiced the
tests administered to those who are pulled over for D.U.I.
Needless to say, we all passed with ﬂying colors.

Despite all the informative discussion on alcohol and its
effects, the subject which had the most impact on me was the
tips for surviving Alumni Weekend. Our instructor in blue
was seriously interested in forewarning us about the police
presence in Lexington this weekend lest we repeat our
mistakes. Since my journalsitic instincts die hard, I rushed
back to the office to provide you with the same helpful hints
that were bestowed on me. Read closely:

1. Do not drink and drive. While this seems so
simple it’s stupid, you’ll be shocked how many people will
be arrested for D.U.I. If you are under 21, beware. The legal
limit is so low that you could be arrested for swallowing
cough syrup.

2. Don’t walk alone if you are drunk. Trust me
on this one, I have some experience with it. Our instructor
said the L.P.D. will not tolerate it. If you are arrested, plan
to spend the night in jail which ranks on the Top 10 Things
I Least Wishe To Do Again.

3. Don’t carry beer cans around town. Besides
being a generally bad idea, it is illegal for minors. Legal
drinkers should note that it is unlawful to consume alcohol
in public. Make sure the beer cans are sealed. Also, pour
drinks in cups to avoid carrying around cans. This greatly
reduces your chances of arrest.

4. Drink responsibly. The key to life (and Alumni
Weekend) is moderation. This is especially true of alcohol
consumption. Please watch our distinguished alumni for
they have returned to Lexington to re-live their glory days.
As my instructor pointed out, “You’ll see 60-year-olds
acting like they are 18 again.”

I hope these tips will be useful to all those who intend to
celebrate W&L’s alumni this weekend. 9'

Have fun, but be careful. While the Alcohol Safety
Action Program was painless, I wouldn’t like to see you
enroll for overzealous partying.

Quote of the Week...

“There have always been women at Washington and

Lee.”

An alumnus describes the limited impact of co-
education on W&L life

(I112 iﬂiing-tum ilﬂlii

 

The Rig-tum Phi, May 12, 1995

 

 

W81. 70...

  

STRIKE CLASSES!
STOP THE. WAR‘.

       

(L

(E ((tr&\L in
Jr «‘tlllm‘l&%tf

“\\x\ Qt mk‘k“UKL It
I (ll L

l
tlLLLt L\\ “ ‘(fl

..W&L ’95

This winter rush deal, I
. 9
like, sucks.

Political principle: DOA in the Senate?

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

Last week, the Senate Labor and
Human Resources Committee held
nomination hearings for Tennessee
abortionist Henry Foster, Bill Clinton’s
nominee to be the next surgeon general
ofthe United States. Since his nomina-
tion, controversy has raged over
Foster’s history of performing abor-
tions and forced sterilizations of re-
tarded women in the 1960s.

Revealingly, most debate and pro-
fessed opposition has centered on the
question of Foster’s credibility, due to
the differing numbers of abortions that
he and the White House have said he
performed. The widely differing ac-
counts have led several senators to
vocally oppose the nomination of
Dr. Foster.

Texas senator and presidential can-
didate Phil Gramm has vowed to fili-
buster Foster’s nomination if it ever
reaches the ﬂoor, saying, “This is a
person who has trouble leveling, and
there is one litmus test, and that is
being honest.”

Gramm’s threat and a similar con-
cern over conservative primary voters
has led fellow 1996 Republican candi-
date Bob Dole to tentatively declare
his opposition to Foster’s nomination

and to consider whether to use his
privilege as Senate Majority Leader
to prevent Foster’s nomination from
ever reaching the Senate ﬂoor. (Lest
you protest that he deserves a vote,
160 Reagan and Bush nominees died
without one.)

Foster’s supporters have responded
by denouncing attempts to oppose Fos-
ter as a political
move to appease

tion is all about abortion.

Many pro-choicers claim that gov-
ernment should not be involved in the
abortion decision. If that is true, why
confirm an abortionist to a tax-funded
position of national moral health spokes-
man? Why did Clinton’s failed health
care plan require all employers, regard-
less of conscience, to pay for health

' services that in-
cluded abortion?

social conserva- ‘

tives. They have

countered by say- - -
ingthatFosterhas The lssue 1'8 not

never done any-
thing illegal, and
that therefore, he
should be con-
firmed (as if re-
jected Republican
nominees Robert
Bork or John
Tower ever did
anything illegal).

Somewherein
this debate over
numbers, cred-
ibility, and legal-
ity, principle has
been lost. The is-
sue is not honesty. To be honest about
committingthemurderofunbomchil-
dren and forcibly sterilizing retarded
women does not make that behavior
any more virtuous. The issue is not
legality. Yes, the sterilizations were
legal at the time, and yes, abortion is
legal. So was slavery. So was the
Holocaust in Gennany. This nomina-

virtuous.”

honesty. Tb be hon-
est about commit-
ting the murder of
unborn children
and forcibly steriliz-
ing retarded women
does not make that
behavior any more

‘ Why did the
Accreditation
Council for Gradu-
ate and Medical
Education recently
rule to require all
residency programs
to train residents in
abortion by 1996,
despite the fact that
a late 1994 survey
revealed that 59
percent of the mem-
bers of the Ameri-
can College of Ob-
stetricians and Gy-
necologists felt that
abortion should not
be required?

Why does the
U.S. government give $158 million
annually to Planned Parenthood, the
nation’s largest abortion provider,
whose founder Margaret Sanger once
wrote, “The most merciful thing a large
family does to one of its infant mem-
bers is to kill it”?

Why does the U.S. government give
$50 million annually to the UN Popula-

tion Fund, which is instrumental in sup-
porting China’s one-child forced-abor-
tion policies, when two respected En-
glish-language Hong Kong publications
have now reported that Chinese medi-
cal centers routinely sell aborted fetuses
for human consumption, believing that
eating them is therapeutic?

The reporters on the story were
even given a tube often aborted babies
free of charge because they looked ill,
along with recipes on how to prepare a
good soup with the remains. (Virginia
Representative Frank Wolf (R) is now
calling for a complete investigation of
these atrocities.)

More than 32 million babies have
been aborted since 1973 in America
alone, the largest human genocide in
history. Those that believe the Foster
nomination is all about credibility would
do well to reﬂect on where humanity is
headed, especially in view of the reports
from China.

At the Nuremberg war crimes trials
after World War II, medical consultant
Dr. Leo Alexander offered the follow-
ing analysis of the origins of the Nazi
medical atrocities: “The beginnings at
first were merely a subtle shift in em-
phasis in the basic attitude of the physi-
cians. It started with the acceptance of
the attitude, basic in the euthanasia
movement, that there is such a thing as
a life not worthy to be lived.”

That acceptance must never take
hold in the United States. It is time to
stand up to abortion on principle, not
political expediency. Dr. Foster must
not be confirmed. 1

Alumni Weekend on six keggers per day

SPos’ SPACE»

Tom Hespos, ’94

It’s been almost a year since Spos’ Space last
appeared in this newspaper. About this time last
year, Spos was tying up the loose ends of Opera-

have fun.

They would remember W&L as the place where
they knocked out all of their front teeth during a
night of chasing imaginary pink spiders after drink-
ing 12 “Inspired Insanities” at Spanky’s.

These people were coming to Lexington to

My first Alumni Weekend was a blast. I remem-
berstartingoff the nightby playingdrinking foosball

And

I ’ [I never forget the

traditional ﬂagpole-swinging.

Nothing can beat swinging on the Post Office
ﬂagpole at four in the morning after partying with
old friends for hours on end.

Even when an unfortunate alumnus would lose

his grip and end up screaming for help from inside
a bush in which he was trapped, it was still fun.

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Hewlett

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord, Cindy Young

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Christine Gamavish, Courtney Miller

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickinger

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenni Grant

Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Tobias

Advertising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

tion Graduation (e.g. greasing the appropriate
palms, mailing the last of the plain brown enve-
lopes to the Registrar’s Office secretaries, etc.).
This was hard work.

After all, I had to make sure everyone on the
Hill was happy so that the cardboard tube would
actually contain a sheepskin on June 2, and at the
same time, ensure that there was ample time to
tube the river Maury and enjoy the fruits of
Alumni Weekend.

As a freshman in a fraternity back in May of
1991, I remember being told what to expect from
this particular series of events. My fraternity big
brother summed it up as a weekend to both fear
and over which to rejoice.

“There are going to be alums coming back that
are going to feed you more liquor than you’ve ever
consumed on any one night in your life,” he
explained. “You’re going to have an absolute
ball-if you don’t die.”

This sounded kinda cool, but I remember tell-
ing everyone that I wanted to actually go to one or
two weekend lectures on the Hill. They groaned.

No one actually goes to any of that crap,” they
told me. “The alums are going to come into town
and go directly to The Palms, and they’re going to
drink until they can’t see anymore.”

It was soon after that I learned to put myself
into the shoes of the younger alumni, who were
returning to Lexington after being in the “real
world” for perhaps only two or three years.

Would these young folks remember Washing-
ton and Lee University as the place where the
greatest of academic minds came together to pro-
vide the greatest intellectual environment one
can ﬁnd?

Hell, no!

V quick death with the ad-

with some of my pledge

(Granted, probably a fed-

brothers and some of the
younger alumni, who had
been drinking at various
bars and cocktail parties

since _ about 11:30
that morning.
We had to chug another

beer for every ﬁve goals
the other team scored
on us.

Things got a little
blurry after that, but I do
remember hollering,
“Praise Sweet Briarl ! !” at
the top of my lungs while
sliding across the kitchen
floor, which the alumni
had conveniently flooded
with a two-inch deep mix-
ture of beer, water and
soap suds.

“Beer-sliding” died a

vent of Fraternity Renais-
sance, unfortunately. (Or
so I think—if anyone
knows of a place where

thistradition continueson- Tom Hespos, Phi
ward, please have
me paged.)

And then there was the Alumni Weekend when
we piled about 27 alums in the back of the Sposbeetle,
the Volkswagen which I still own and which will
hopefully get me back to New York without ex-
ploding on I-81. The car was never quite the same
after that incident.

eral offense, but still fun.)

Now, I am ready to en-
joy my first Alumni Week-
end as an alumnus of
Washington and Lee.

I’ve been working at a
high-pressure advertising
agency on Madison Av-
enue since October, work-
ing weekends digging
ditches in the Hamptons
and writing weekly col-
umns for a small newspa-
per on Long Island.

In short, I’ve been busy.

And I’m looking to re-
lax for awhile in the laid-
back Southern atmosphere
which I’ve come to enjoy
so much.

My situation is not
unique—I’ve heard sev-
eral people comment that
they “can ’t wait to get back
to Lexington” after work-
ing week after week at
inane jobs they can ’t stand.
guru. So please don’t blame

the younger alumni forthe

offenses they will probably commit this weekend.

Remember, y’all attend W&L eight months out

of the year. I think you can spare a weekend in order
to let the alums relive their glory days.

And if you happen to notice someone trapped in

a bush this weekend, please be a good citizen and

lend a hand.

  

 

.._.__ Am‘-

‘V

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1995

OPINION

Cable Two line-up needs more...pizzazz

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

We all know that there are a lot of
ways to waste time, but few are as
foolproof as watching TV. I always
find myself thinking things like, “Be-
fore I start to work on the midterm
that’s worth 50 percent of my grade, I
want to check real quick what’s on
MTV.” Six hours later, I’m thinking,
“Okay if the next video isn’t any good,
then I swear l’ll do my work.”

In recent years, W&L Cable Two
has been working hard for all of us,
providing more and more program-
ming to keep us from furthering our
education. If it weren’t for Chris Albert
and The Dating Game, we’d probably
all be okay with the higher standards
for Dean’s List. Still, with so many
hours without broadcasting, there is
still a chance we could start to use our
time productively. With that in mind,
I’d like to make some suggestions for
new programming on Cable Two.

Everyone loves game shows like
The Dating Game, so why not have
more of them? Let’s face it—as fun as
The Dating Game might be, it doesn’t
paint a realistic picture of life at W&L
as we know it. The solution is obvious:
The Hook-up Game. Contestants
will meet in a dark room with loud
music and a few cases of cheap beer.
Under the watchful cameras of Cable
Two, we will let nature do her thing.
The Hook-up Game will be similar to
its predecessor in that the contestants
will ask each other questions, but on
this show, the music will be too
loud for anyone to hear the

answers. Example:

Bachelor Number One: So, where
are you from’?

Bachelorette NumberThree: WHAT?

Bachelor Number One: I SAID,
“WHERE ARE YOU FROM?”

Bachelorette NumberTwo: TAURUS.

Bachelor Number One: OH, RE-
ALLY? MY RO0MMATE’S
FROM HOUSTON.

Tyson Hilton suggested that at the
end of the show, I
there could be a
segment like in

new line of Cable Two merchandise
tie-ins. Since this show screams out,
“Play along!” an at-home version of
The Drinking Game could be sold at
the W&L Bookstore. It would include
a case of Natural Light and a hand-
book, all for only $59.95. Charge
it home!

Real life drama is always popular.
lt’s such a natural to put some random
people together and film The Real
World: Lexing-
ton. The set-up
would be simple.

The Love Can-
nection during

CC

Pick seven of the
most obnoxious

which the people Since this show peopleontheplanet
who hooked upon 6 (like Tom Hespos,
thepreviousshow screarﬁs Out’ Play whom I feel obli-
could come back along - an at'h0me gated to mocksince
and tell the audi- version of The this is the Alumni
ence how their Weekendissue),es-

hook-up went.
Bachelor couldbesoldat the
Number One:
we“, she was W&L Bookstore. It
kinda cool, would include a case
but She had 0 Natural Li
bad breath.   k ,,ght and
Host: Well, if a an 00 -

you’d like to hook
up with her again,
we’ll pay for it.

The possibilities are endless. An-
other great game show would be The
Drinking Game. Contestants will
play a different drinking game every
week. For games like, “I’ve Never”
(the official drinking game of TheRing-
tum Phi), the home audience could call
in with suggestions like, “I’ve never
read about my arrest for being drunk in
public in The Trident.”

The Drinking Game could begin a

Thanks

To the editor:

On behalf of the men’s lacrosse
team and our coaching staff, I would
like to thank the students of Washing-

Drinking Game

LETTERS

pecially those who
have nothing in
common. Put them
in an apartment full
of tapestries, Elvis
lamps, and other
funky decorating
items. Watch them
fight and discuss
their angst.

W&L angst is
not exactly on a par with the angst of
the rest of the world, but that could be
part of the fun. Nonnal people angst: I
can’t find a job, my relationship is way
too complicated, and I’m afraid that
my newest body piercing will get in-
fected. W&L angst: I hope I can find a
date to FD.

Cable Two’s hard-working staff
should strive to ﬁnd the newest trends
in television and rip them off. That

ideal is the heart and soul of the show
L-E-X-I-N-G-T-0-N Blue.

Look out Jimmy Smits! You have
some new competition with R.D.
Clark. This police drama’s trendy new
jerky camera shots will focus on the
cops during their tensest moments——
chalking car tires and ticketing way-
ward dogs. Episodes may feature par-
tial nudity. Parental discretion
is advised.

There’s no reason Cable Two
shouldn’t be educational. The station
could provide a great service to the
W&Lcommunity with a cooking show
such as Sarah Gilbert’s Cooking
with Alcohol.

Sarah will charm us all with her
booze-soaked food, including her fa-
mous Lemon Rum Cake. The show
will be even better as Sarah begins to
sample her concoctions. She’ll eventu-
ally turn a cute shade of pink
and tell everyone personal things
about herself.

We can’t leave out the importance
of sports coverage in the Cable Two
broadcast day. A show like Battle of
the “Freshman Friends ”will show-
case the fading talents of the many
recovering high school athletes at
Washington and Lee.

For example, upperclassmen could
suggest to their freshman friends that
they fetch them drinks. The smarter
freshman would swipe the drink from
the other freshman. Other events in
The Battle of the “Freshman Friends”
could include the Stop-In Run, the

Clean-Up-A-Thon, and the Car
Wash Rally.

All events would, of course,
be optional. ~

The possibilities are endless.

to loyal lacrosse fans for support

ton and Lee for their support through-
out this past season and especially for
the strong showing Saturday at the
Lee-Jackson Classic.

It was very impressive to be able to

look across the field and see the visitor
stands at VMI filled with W&L la-
crosse fans.

Your enthusiasm and excitement
has not been overlooked and was a

great boost to our players and program
on Saturday.

Jim Stagnitta
Head Men’s Lacrosse Coach

Susong review of Rob Roy off-target

To the editor:

After reading Kirk Susong’s review
of Rob Roy in the May 5 edition of The
Ring-tum Phi, we can only conclude
that Kirk Susong’s qualifications as a
film critic are questionable. His analy-
sis of Rob Roy unfairly attacked the
finer points of this film and apparently
missed its point.

First, Liam Neeson’s and Jessica
Lange’s performances left nothing to
be desired. Liam Neeson’s portrayal of

the main character was highly appro-
priate; Rob Roy was an ordinary man
who rose to become a hero in extraor-
dinary circumstances. The “humanity
about him”- is exactly what makes
Neeson’s character believable as a folk
legend. A folk legend is not a super-
hero; he represents the common man.

Furthermore, to label Jessica Lange
as a “disappointment” is preposterous.
Her strength and so-called “stubbom-
ness” depict the dignity of a great
woman. Her rendition of this character

is inspiring, especially in a time when
few such roles are available for women.

Regarding Susong’s criticism of the
use of historical accuracy, one can only
shudder to think of the sort of “glossy”
film he would have produced, had he
been behind the camera.

The historical accuracy serves to
provide realism and to reinforce par-
ticular aspects of some of the charac-
ters. For example, the chamber-pot
scene successfully shows Cunningham
to be truly vile. In addition, we canot

imagine Robert Roy as a crisply
pressed, perfectly coiffed, mani-
cured Fabio.

Mr. Susong’s reviews are generally
negative in tone (and tend to reveal the
entire plot, spoiling the movie forthose
who have not yet seen it); sometimes
the ﬁlms are deserving of such criti-
cism. However, in this case, he is to-
tally off-base.

Liz Detter, ’98
Marisa Frost, ’98

PAGE 7

Calyx

Students interested in free ’91,’92
and ’94 copies of the Calyx may
pick them up outside the Calyx of-
ﬁce in the University Center.

College Republicans

The College Republicans will
meet Sunday, May 14 at7:30 p.m. in
Rm. 133 of the University Center.-

Editors

Ariel, Political Review, andJour-
nal of Science are looking for edi-
tors. Applications are due Tuesday,
May 16 at 6 p.m. in the Calyx mail-
box. Interviews will be held May 18
at 6 p.m. in the Calyx office. ‘

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will conclude the 1994-95
season with the documentary Hoop
Dreams (USA, 1994) in English at
8:05 p.m. in the Troubadour Cin-
ema Friday and Saturday, May 12
and 13. The mounted posters still
remaining which have been on dis-
play in the lobby of the Troubadour
will also be sold for $10, $20
and $30.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Outing Club

The new Outing Club schedule
will feature climbing Mondays,
Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1-5
p.m. Students should call Betsy
Treadway at 463-4761. Kayaking
will be Wednesdays from 7-9 p.m.
at the old pool. Those interested
should call Kevin Batteh at 464-
8837. Canoeing will be Tuesdays 3-
6 p.m. Those interested should con-
tact Gordon Dalton at 462-4739 or
Jack Bauer at 464-3126. The equip-
ment room hours (for tents, sleeping
bags, stoves, packs, etc.) are Mon-
days from 2-4 p.m. and Thursdays
from 3-5 p.m., or call Kim Stoner at
462-4075.

Women Alumnae

A reception for women alumnae
and women undergraduates will be
held Saturday, May 13 at 4 p.m. in
the Alumni House. It is sponsored
by Women's Forum, Women in
Leadership and Panhellenic. All are
welcome to a panel discussion where
women alumnae and women under-
graduates will discuss the Washing-
ton and bee experience and its im-
pact on life after college.

Face Book

Student organizations interested
in advertising in the Freshman Face
Book should contact Emily Giannini
at 462-4941 for more information.

Correction

There was an error in the May 5 issue of The Ring-tum Phi. Roger Mudd
graduated from Washington and Lee University in 1950.

7/76’ Ring-tum Plli.

 

Read it. You ‘d dig it the most.

Photos and Interviews by Betsy Green

Ainsley Fisher, ’96, Rich-
mond, VA—“ljust hope I grow up!”

TALKBACK

Layout by Alex Christensen Y

What do you Want to be when you grow up‘?

 

Aaron Michalove, ’98, Win-
ston-Salem, NC—“I want to be a
love slave.”

Erin Harrison, ’97, Dallas, TX and Lamandra Jenkins, '97, Ponte
Vedra Beach, FL—-“Can't we just stay the same? We are grown up!”

Daniel FeIton,’95,Marianne,
AR—“Lama‘s husband—for all you
socially inept people, that's Mr.
Lamandra Jenkins.”

Bunny Wong, '97,

Rancho, NM—--‘‘Taller.’’

(4

‘_,, ._;. ._.. ..-. .. .. ,...--._'.._..J

Rio

    

PAGE 8 The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1995

25 years ago in The Phi: ‘Two Views of Seven Days’ aftermath’

Editor's Note: 25 years ago, Washington and Lee ’s students staged a mass protest on the front lawn with the aim of having Spring Term classes cancelled so that students could attend Vietnam War protests at the University of Virginia and at other ‘
locations. The EC passed an anti-war resolution, and the students voted in a resolution that classes should be cancelled and graded on a pass-fail basis based upon work completed. Finally, a faculty compromise allowed students who wished to
leave do so and to make up their classwork the following year. The following articles are reprinted from the May 13, I970 editorial page of The Ring-tum Phi.

By Dave Olson sources, and these sources would be
displeased (to say the least) if this
school had shut down, or if 80 percent
of the student body left which they
probably would have done if a pass-
fail option had been instituted. Can
we blame the faculty? I think not. For
many of the faculty, W&L is their
whole life, their raison d’etre.

They would not want to take a step
that would endanger the life of this
university and subsequently theirjobs.
It is a very real and a very human
consideration, but I wonder if, at this
juncture in the school year, if pass-
fail (which really was the desire of the
students) would have made that great
a difference.

I don’t think it would have, and
many schools (Brown and Yale in-
cluded) have pass-fail for everything.
Would it have made that much differ-
ence if W&L had done it for
one semester?

The faculty seems to feel so
because it would look bad to
graduate schools.

The faculty still clings to the idea
that they have to protect us from the
onerous possibility. It is a manifesta-
tion of the idea of in loco parentis, and
even more so, the generation gap.

The difference is that the faculty
feels that they have to retain a certain
semblance ofhierarchy and adminis-
trative security while the students
feel that W&L has to make a forth-
right statement to the nation about
our condemnation of the war. To the
faculty the former is most important,
while to the students the latter is
imperative.

I think the difference may well
stem from an expanded moral con-
science on the part of our generation.
This is not to criticize the faculty, but
they are products of their times, as we
are. The problem is that these are
our times, times of expanded
moral consciences.

Sooner or later Richard Nixon will
realize this. or at least I hope they
will. The interval between now and
the time the older generation realizes

our values and aims could be very By Reeve Kelsey
troublesome. I hope we, this Univer-
sity, this nation and this planet
can survive.

happened and what does it mean? One
has observed a generally activist stu-
dent body and a ﬂexible response on
the part of the faculty.

The initial faculty action showed
an understanding on the part of the
faculty of the need to combine the
desires of the concerned students
with the academic integrity of
the University.

The faculty action with its Monday
night amendments allows those stu-
dents who feel intellectual pursuits are
no longer gennane to the problems
they face to leave the University com-
munity and make up their work at a
later time. The faculty action also reaf-
ﬁrmed the basic purpose of the Uni-
versity—to teach and to be a home for
intellectual activities in all disciplines.

The student resolution, itself, was a
poorly worded document offering
something for everyone.

We feel that a resolution of this
nature must stand independent of out-
side interpretations. The student pro-
ponents cannot invoke the plea of
Humpty Dumpty when he said, “When
I use a word it means just what I choose
it to mean——-neither more nor less.”

There was not something in the
resolution that appealed to all students,
even the 254 who explicitly rejected
the proposal. The resolution did con-
tain two regrettable phrases, “closing
Washington and Lee” and “Declare all
classes canceled.” If the proponents of
the resolution did not really wantclasses
canceled, why were these two phrases
left in the proposal?

The second major objection to the
plan was that there was no guarantee
that classes would continue as sched-
uled. A professor would not have been
obligated to continue classes.

There are many other problems in-
volved in ending the semester on May
6. Is it really ethically justiﬁable to
give a student a “B” for four-ﬁfths of
the work of last year’s “B” student?
How does a professor really give a
grade if the only work to be turned in
for the course was the ﬁnal exam?

What does this mean for the future?

W&L’s student body is now activist--
the days of apathy are at last truly dead
and buried. It is the job of student
leadership to channel this activism into
positive results. Results that comple-
ment the goals of the University.

The long run implications of the
student action are of such signiﬁcance
that they cannot be overlooked. Is the
abandoning of a structured curriculum
a decision that should be made
under the immediate stress of an
outside issue?

There is much to be said for an
unstructured curriculum with the stu-
dent doing what he desires. Next year’s
short tenn is an effort to positively face
this issue.

Furthermore the faculty’s present
resolution has serious ramiﬁcations.
Can any student at any time for any
reason withdraw and receive an “I”

The crisis continues, but today one
hopes that the worst is over. What

“This has been a tremendous afﬁr-
mation of the potential of the W&L
student body. There is hope.” Fran
Lawrence stated the case beautifully.

We have seen in the past few days
an extraordinary series of acts on the
part of the student body. What they
have done is, to this writer, amazing.
We have come out of our noted apa-
thy and worked. We have worked
hard to do something together, and
we did.

It took Kent State to do it, but we
did take action. If we, as a student
body, can keep this kind of action
going, we can advance by leaps and
bounds next year. The only problem
is that these advances are contingent
on the acceptance of them by the
faculty and the administration.

What the faculty failed to realize
in their perfunctory, though sincere
consideration of the student proposal
is that they no longer are required to
look after our well-being. We are
here to learn, not to be administered
to. “I think if we had pass-fail, then
everyone would go to Virginia Beach”
was a statement heard from more
than one member of the faculty.

It astounds me that these faculty
members could so miss the point of
the student resolution. It was not an
attempt at getting out the easy way. It
was an attempt to achieve the free-
dom that is necessary to do what we
have to do.

The reason the student resolution
got turned down is unclear, but these
are some likely choices. One, the
faculty could have a great great lack
of perception, but that is unlikely.

They could feel that if they had
done something like institute pass-
fail, no one would show up for their
classes. I do not think the faculty is
that sensitive. I think they turned it
down because of outside pressure and
certain things they realized about the
position of W&L.

Certainly much of our money
comes from rather conservative

_ ...-.~.»...,,;;,,,_,_' 

 

     

resolution are even more severe.

Does a student have the right to
leave classes at any time for a reason-
able cause and receive a “P” for the
work that he misses? Again these are
all legitimate questions, but ones that
should not be resolved in the fast mo-
ment of the events of last week.

Yesterday’s assembly seemed to
focus directly on who should wield the
power in a university. We have long
argued that the faculty should not act
in loco parentis and we will
continue to.

However, we feel that the faculty or
the administration should have ulti-
mate jurisdiction over matters pertain-
ing to the curriculum. The students
should not have the ﬁnal, ultimate ju-
risdiction over what courses are to be
offered, how the curriculum should be
structured or what professors should
be hired.

There should be student representa-
tion in these decisions, and there has
been increasing student participation
in these areas.

There now exists a tremendous force
for action in the student body. Let us
hope that it is used to the beneﬁt of the
entire University community.

 

 

Calyx File

Student protesters march on the Colonnade in opposition
to the Vietnam War during the “Seven Days” of 1970.

'5.-vbz‘.vv£~eb'&vv&-vivtbrbrlvévvbé-v£~'£-it-it-ttvvl-vi»

 

W W_£Il Art

R.E. Lee

Signatures

COOKBOOK

$ 10.00 with this ad
[$14.95 valuel]

THE STONEWALL JACKSON HOUSE

MUSEUM SHOP ° GARDEN ° HISTORIC HOUSE ° TOURS
8 EAST WASHINGTON ST. ° LEXINGTON, VA ° 463-2552

 

      

\\\\

  

Ladies’ Shoes, Cloth-
ing andAccessories

       
 

Winter Clearance Sale

4 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)464-6464

  
    

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

   

Open Monday - Saturday 
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

Sunday: 11 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.

 
  
 

   

 

\\

 

\\_—

l
‘I’

grade? The implications of the student V

7'

at

 

  
 
  

 
 
 
  
   
     
   
   

7.  The Ring-tum Phi, May 12, 1995 MS PAGE 9

Special Sale wmbi‘-33
for

your debts into one
easy-to-mnnagepa ent.
Alumni Weekend
Friends

            
     

BadcneaIt‘noproblcxn.Al.l;acceptedhasadon topay.
= I-‘Au-llzu IsJosrAPuouncAu.hnvl
cau,dayoymgm1—305—537s-3,517_<2n an In-zcoanrm

for url-‘REEAPPLlCA'l'lONo|'wnte: -
. BOX 6o5,noLLrvoon. FL 33022

To HELP WITH THOSE EXAM BLUES APRIL 26TH THROUGH MAY 13TH

PRE—EXAM WEEK SALE

    
  

     

  

    

 

    
     
  

A A EXTRA
OFF
Su1ts - Sportcoats - 20 % Off A+ ST°R5%Zff?§,% Off
‘T   ...  %  At UnBelievable prices EVERYDAY

17 S. Main St. 463-9730 Hours: Mon-Sat 9:30-5:30

TGIF Catalog Outlets ,

      
   
  

 

(Duckheads Included)

i
x 

  
       
   
 
   
     
    

 ILexington’sI ti

Clvll War Tles - Belts SCl‘0€ll  

    
 
       
   
         
 

* American Flag Battle Ties   ilively biStI‘0i ‘
Belts & Key Chains  & outdoor
" Sun Stopper Hats /   P300

W&L Belts & Ties

Incorporated Breakfast Lunch

Candlelight Dinners

   

    

Ladles Dept. Spring & Summer §.H_0.Y_VlL0QM mceurnuuu   Fine Wm Imported
V  I 2 0 q 0 ff 171[lS0uthRandfIl|_>l!Stl'eei P.0._Box408/ State Route 710 West Beers Cappuccino
0 ”“““3ts‘t't'3‘21’§“5° I’5i"“i6?54X‘E7%3“t§7i‘2??s5  
Phone: one:

Baguettes & C roissants
Outrageous Desserts

Harb

19 W. Washington St.
703/464- 1900

 B  A   -"---____

When a good man goes bad

Fax: 703 377-6418 ‘

The College Town Shop

111 WEST NELSON STREET

FOUNDED 1926
Master Charge - VISA - UPS Shipping

-plaques
Y -trophies
E; -custom engraving
promotional products

————————————EC———————

\D

      
 

7 advertising specialties -

   

The lust for power

corrupted him    

comp1etely————and -4 E 7   A V
he can only blame Eas1;iuI_;tIrn’a;ro :aniumaiw  ,_,_ 

f  V ‘A   {u~£.3iz.\‘Di£l> I749 9  i 
Itis  H“  cox-rrwimrp ﬁr vrv rue 
What A la Rambo.   in j, 1. *£(itiQIi’€"((‘tt7'7t3jn;7"'it‘V';iYr‘o"f;‘IIM121$‘)‘i'2  r-up

happened . Don't miss this action-

packed thriller, featuring
next’ evil witches, plenty of
sword fights, and cold
blooded murder.

May 19, 20,21 s. 22
Keller Theatre 0 Lenfest Center

Tickets free to W&L students, faculty & staff 16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

Ticketsr M11463-8000 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
(703) 463-1832

 

1
q
3
.‘
1
4
I
I

 

t
Y

. ‘1

 

PAGE 10

      
      
 
     
    
   
    
  
      
  
    
      
     
  
 
    
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
    
  

place gzmie

mi’ iﬁivisioii  tOL1l‘Ili1mtE3X1'L
i3z?l'1:1effer competes

 

S

@112 iﬂtng-tum lﬂlii

PORTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, TENNIS, TRACK, LACROSSE

 

MAY 12, 1995
V

Lax uses late charge to storm past Keydets in Classic

By SCOTT BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Chalk up another one for
Washington and Lee.

Last Saturday, in front of a
boisterous crowd of 3,100 at Vir-
ginia Military lnstituu/s Alumni
Memorial Field, W&L streaked
past VMI by a count of] 1-8 in the
eighth annual Lee-Jackson La-
crosse Classic. In the process, the
Generals retained their Lexing-
ton city championship.

W&L used a seven-goal run
midway through the second half
to cruise to the win.

The victory was the Generals’
seventh consecutive in the Clas-
sic against their neighboring Lex-
ington rivals, the Keydets.

VMl’s only win in the series
came in the ﬁrst game, a 15-9
triumph back in 1989.

W&L holds an 8-1 advantage
in the all-time series against the
Keydets, which began in 1986.

Senior Scott Mackley (10) returned from a two-game absence due to injury to spark the Generals on a
seven-goal spree in the second half, and an 11-8 triumph over the VMI Keydets. W&L finishes at 9-5.

Tennis falls to Kenyon in semifinals

Besides the rivalry, the Gen-
erals’ victory proved to be an
important way to end the season.
W&L entered the game mired in
a slump, having dropped its pre-
vious three contests to fall to 8-5.

“We’ve been pretty inconsis-
tent the last few weeks, and have
been up and down with inju-
ries,” head coach Jim Stagnitta
said. “Saturday, we proved to
ourselves that we’re a lot better
than we’ve shown.”

VMI caused plenty of con-
cern for W&L this year, since it
came in with a 9-4 record.

The Keydets did nothing to
dispel that fear when Joe
Brockman scored the game’s first
goal with 13:04 remaining in the
first quarter.

W&L kept VMl’s high-oc-
tane offense undercontrol forthe
remainder of the half.

Junior midfielder Adam
Butterworth, who ﬁnished with
three goals and one assist, put the

Generals on the scoreboard for
the first time four minutes later.

“l’ve really been impressed
with Adam the last six weeks,”
Stagnitta commented. “He is a
person who has stepped up his
game and taken charge.”

Goals by seniormidﬁelderTy
Tydings and junior attackman
Russell Croft elevated the Gen-
erals to a 3-1 advantage with
10:20 left in the first half.

It was a sign of bigger and
better things to come from Croft,
who would tack on three more
goals to his total before the after-
noon was over.

Thanks in large part to a goal
and assist from Rob Worrell, VMI
finished the half with a ﬂurry,
knotting the game at 4-4 by the
end of the half.

The Keydets began the sec-
ond half as hot as they ended the
first half.

Three straight goals, includ-
ing two within a period of thir-

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

1 bounded to take the

' freshman

, Shapard’s win was her

Consolation matches are not easy to get excited about, especially
after being one singles match away from playing for the national

championship.

The W&L women’s tennis team, though, must gear themselves up
for Friday’s third-place match at the NCAA Division lll nationals at

Sweet Briar College.

The Generals (20-2) were beaten, 5-4, by number—one seed Kenyon
College in Thursday’s semifinal match. It was the second time this
year the third-seeded Generals lost to Kenyon by that same score.

lf Kenyon goes on to win Friday‘s championship match, W&L
would at least know that the national champs were only one ﬂight
better than the Generals, since Kenyon also won a previous 5-4 match

in Lexington.

Kenyon will face the winner ofthe UC-San Diego vs. Trinity (TX)
semiﬁnal at 10:00 AM for the national title, while W&L takes on the
losing team for third-place at the same time.

Results ofthe W&L match can be found by calling the W&LSports

Hotline at 463-8998.

The Generals got off to an impressive start Thursday, winning two

of the three doubles matches.

The nationally third-ranked tandem of senior Marilyn Baker and
freshman Natalia Garcia won an 8-6 battle, and the team of j uniorJ ulie
Ayers and freshman Berry Blankenship won at third-doubles, 8-4.

This was a turnaround from the March 17 competition, when

Kenyon won twice at

29th of the year, breaking Baker’s school record,_which was set last
year. Baker has currently won 28 this season and IS three wins shy of

100 for her career.

However, Baker (#1), and Ayers (#3), were beaten a day after
posting a pair of sensational wins in the quarterﬁnal on Wednesday.
Baker, the nation’s sixth-ranked player, knocked off top-ranked
Julie Rosenstein in straight sets, 7-5, 6-2, to lead W&L to a 6-3 win

over Amherst College.

Amherst won twice at doubles to put a scare into the Generals. But
W&L “worked it” at singles, according to one onlooker, taking ﬁve
of six to advance to the semiﬁnals.

Garcia and Shapard won brief and impressive 6-0, 6-0 matches,
and junior Shelley Sundennan won at number-six, 6-2, 6-1. Shapard ’s
win took barely 45 minutes to complete.

The match of the day, though, was at number-three. Ayers and
Amherst’s Ting Yu fought for over three hours before Ayers walked
away with a marathon 4-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 win.

That win guaranteed the team its best ﬁnish ever, topping lastyear’s
sixth-place performance at nationals.

On Tuesday, the Generals showed that they had shaken off the
pain of last year’s opening round loss to Williams College. W&L

routed Skidmore, 8-1.

The Generals won all three doubles ﬂights, and their only loss in
singles was a three-set defeat for Ayers (6-2, 2-6, 6-4).

At number—one, Baker beat a longtime rival of hers, third-ranked
Jamie Levine, 6-2, 7-6 (7-5). Baker had also beaten Levine in the_

Photo by tsy Green, The Riu-tum Phi

teen seconds, pushed VMI out to
a 7-4 lead early in the third quar-
ter, and silenced the large W&L
fan contin-

from the past starting with 6:30 formance, especially during the

left in the third.

During the next seventeen

 

late rally.
“l was happy with our level of
intensity, and

gent. we showed 3
Stagnitta lot of charac-
and the Gen- ter,” he re-
eralswere not m a r k e d .
panickingyet, “Overall, it
though. was a good‘
‘‘I wasn’t day.”
concerned Howcver,
enoughtocall Stagnitta
a timeout,” warned that
the coach one afternoon
mentioned. (1065 HOI C0n-
“Earlierinthe stitute a sea-
year we had Son. .
come back “Our ex-
from deﬁcits. pectat ions
We were get-  were high this
nng nnn0nn_ Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi season, but we”

nities to convert, but weren't get-
ting it done."

The early-season success
seemed far away at this point, but
the Generals were to enjoy a blast

  

minutes of the half, the Generals
went on a rampage.

Beginning with an Andy
Dutton coal and ending with an
Ande Jenkins score, W&L ﬁred
off seven consecutive goals to
take command at 11-7. Croft
provided three of his scores dur-
ing this span.

Senior attackman Dutton ﬁn-
ished his ﬁnal game in a Gener-
als' uniform with two goals and
one assist.

‘‘It took the wind out of their
sails after we tied it up,” Stagnitta
explained.

The stunned Keydets could
only manage a meaningless goal
with less than four minutes to
play to provide the ﬁnal margin
for the game.

W&L scored 51 times in the
fourth quarter during the season,
its most of any period.

The game was reminiscent of
the 1994 Lee-Jackson Classic.
In that contest the Generals also
broke away from VMI late, scor-
ing four consecutive times to
break a 7-7 deadlock, and propel
W&L to a 12-10 victory.

Despite winning nearly every
statistical battle, VMI had a dif-
ficult time penetrating W&L
goalie Scott Jackson.

Jackson received the starting
nod for only the second time this
season, but he appeared more
than capable in front of the net.

The freshman faced nineteen
shots, and recorded eleven saves
on the afternoon.

Stagnitta was extremely
pleased with the Generals’ per-

fell short of
what we were capable of,” he
described. “We ﬁnally realized
the potential we had all vear (in
the game).” ' V
Junior Ande Jenkins finished
the year as the Generals’ top scorer
with 31 goals and eight assists
for a total of 39 points.
Croft came in second on the
team with 38 points. V‘
Senior Scott Mackley netted
25 goals, and Butterworth scored
24 times.
Tydings ended as the team
leader in assists with 22.
Sophomore Doug Gubner
stopped 123 shots on the season
for a .577 save percentage. .
W&L completed the 1995
campaign with a 9-5 mark, (5-Iii
in the ODAC), an identical over- ‘i
all log as the 1994 squad. The
men closed with a number-ten
ranking in Division III. 
Last season, the Generals ﬁn-

ished with a #11 mark. yt

The Generals have now rung
up a streak of a different kind: six
straight seasons of at least nine
victories each year.

W&L has not been missing
from the USILA Division Ill la- Y
crosse rankings since the 1990
season, the same year the victory
string began, and the year
Stagnitta took over the reins.

Stagnitta hopes the run will ‘I
continue in 1996.

“We’ll have some key play-
ers returning and a good incom-
ing freshman class,” he com-
mented. “Our expectations will
be high again next year.”

third-place match at last fall’s Rolex National Championships. I
Consequently, the singles competition, which begins Saturday, 1S

shaping up as very in-

doubles at the W&L
Tennis Center before
splitting at singles.

Yet, at Sweet Briar,
Kenyon took four of
six in singles for the
win.

It all came down to

Brown, though, re-

next two, 6-1, and 6-2.

Garcia (#2), and
Ericka
Shapard (#4), each won

So cose...

    

File Photo

teresting.

During team com-
petition, #6 Baker had
beaten the top-ranked
player and the number-
three, but lost to #8 Ali
St. Vincent of Kenyon.
In their previous match

the nnmbenfive this year, Baker beat
singles match between St. \_/incent, 6-3, 4-6,
W&LaS Anna 6-1, in Lexington.
Oscnnnor and The rounds of 32
Kenyonas Renee and 16willbeheldSat-
Brown 0’Cnnn0,  urday morningatsweet
pulled the Generals Bnarv Wm‘ the mund
1 within a set of victory 0f15 doubles P13)’ f°l'

lowing these.

Both champion-
ships are currently
scheduled for Monday.

W&L will be repre-
sented by both Baker
and seventeenth-
ranked Garcia in

their singles matches
in straight sets.

Julie Ayers played a key role during the Generals’ 20-2 season,
and their trip to the national semiﬁnals this past week.

singles. The 24-3 duo
also will battle for the
doubles title.

Down the homestretch
Josephine Schaeffer will run in the 10,000 Friday.-

File Photo

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   

