SPECIAL REPORT

@112 Ring-mm lﬁlri

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA.

FEBRUARY 27, 1995

Elrod named president

BY EMILY BAKER AND SARAH GILBERT
Phi Editors

A two-minute standing ovation
greeted Friday’s announcement that John
Elrod, Washington and Lee’s vice presi-
dent of academic affairs and dean of the
college, had been selected as W&L’s in-
coming president.

“I feel profoundly honored,” Elrod
said. “I consider this to be one ofthe best
jobs in higher education in America, and I
feel as fortunate as I can be to have this
job.”

Elrod will be the 22nd president of
Washington and Lee, Robert E. Lee’s ninth
successor, and will take office July 1,1995,
when John Wilson retires.

Students, faculty and administration
lauded the choice of the Board Selection
Committee.

“What our committee said to the
Board Selection Committee was that they
should use John Elrod as the standard by
which they should hold everyone else to,”
said William Watt, head of the Presidential
Search Committee which recommended
11 candidates to the Board from a pool of
130 applications.

Elrod came to Washington and Lee
University in 1984 as dean of the college
and professor of philosophy. Since he has

been at W&L, Elrod has expanded the .

curriculum in Cognitive Science, Neuro-
science, Russian Studies, Environmental
Science and Medieval and Renaissance
Studies. Wilson said the appointment of
Elrod was one of his best decisions as
president.

“The first act I performed when I
came here was to head a search committee
to ﬁnd a new dean of the college,” Wilson
said. “He has served admirably in that job.

“‘I have come to know him very
well; we talk every morning about the state
of the university. I don’t imagine that there
will be anything but a positive future with
John as president,” Wilson said.

J...’

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Dean of the College John Elrod voices his yatitude in Lee Chapel
shortly after being named Washington and Lee’s new president
Feb. 24. Elrod will replace John Wilson, retiring in July.

Wilson enumerated Elrod’s qualifi-
cations, which should mark him as a very
successful president.

“First, he has a instinctive sense of
what a university is,” Wilson said. “There
are lot of people who work successfully in
universities and yet don ’t really know what
a university is about. John knows how you
can contrive an environment in which the
faculty and students can relate.”

Wilson also lauded Elrod’s honesty.

“John has the courage of his convic-
tions. People will not respect you if you try
to please everybody by tailoring your re-
sponses to them. You’ve got to make deci-
sions in this job, whether they be good, bad
or indifferent, no matter how you think
people will react.”

Other characteristics that will serve
Elrod well in his new position, Wilson
said, are his enthusiasm for life and the
university, his talent for communicating,
his analytical mind and his love of Wash-
ington and Lee.

“Fund-raising is principally a con-
veying of the meaning of the place with

enthusiasm and conviction,” Wilson said.
“You’re going to get people to support both
you and the institution if you have that.”

Student leaders were also very positive
about the selection.

“He knows how the school works,”
said Alex Cross, vice president of the execu-
tive committee. “He’s familiar with the im-
portant things, things that make W&L what it
is, and not just ‘number ﬁfteen’ in US News
and World Report.

“He recognizes the importance of stu-
dent autonomy on this campus and the impor-
tance of the fraternity system.”

Elrod’s immediate plans are to initiate
the search for a new vice president of aca-
demic affairs and dean of the college, a pro-
cess which should take about a year. In the
meantime, he plans to appoint an acting dean.

“I have been profoundly gratiﬁed by
the well-wishes of the students,” Elrod said.
“I didn’t know that there was such a profound
interest in this announcement, and Mimi and
I were really touched by that.

“I look forward to a long and positive
relationship with the campus.”

