JAMES o. LE'rat;a=:rt z.:a:'t.A.r=;v
\"./Aat-liN(2iT( .2 in uugxlﬁwrrv
iezorieri-ms. ‘RA at-450

 "?  ‘t 1994

Check out preview of
“Other People’s Money”

Football rolls over
Sewanee 28-17

‘ID

he ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

VOLUME 94, NO. 7

Heatley judge
may dismiss

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

Counsel for Nathan Rick Heatley
surprised Washington and Lee
University’s lawyers in the most recent
bout of the $1 million wrongful dis-
charge lawsuit with a clause from the
Virginia Code which Heatley’s law-
yers think should “create a new cause
of [tort] action.” ‘

Part of the Code’s purpose is to
“protect citizens of the Commonwealth
against unfounded charges of unlawful
discrimination” (§2.1-715). Charles
Smith III, Heatley’s attorney, intro-
duced this portion of the Code into his
oral argument in the first hearing in
Covington Oct. 19.

In other words, Heatley’s lawyers
are seeking to establish a precedent in
this case which would allow employ-
ees to sue their employers if they be-
lieved they had been fired as a result of
a charge of sexual harassment which
had not been proven.

Alleghany Circuit Court Judge
Duncan Byrd is considering the argu-
ment presented by Smith in defense of
Washington and Lee’s motion for de-
murrer. That means that W&L eon-
tended that, though the facts Heatley
presented may have been true, they
did not support his premise of
wrongful discharge.

Heatley was fired from his position
asdirected of Career Developmentand
Placement in May of 1 993 after Beverly
Lorig and Ruth Lewis claimed that
Heatley had sexually harassed them,

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 28, 1994

according to Heatley’s motion
for judgment.

Heatley is suing the University for
punitive and compensatory damages
totaling $1 million on the basis of six
different counts, including wrongful
discharge,whichisthecenterofW&L’s
motion for demurrer.

Heatley contends that he should not
have been dismissed without being
found guilty of sexual harassment in a
university investigation.

His lawyers state that the student
handbook constitutes a contract with
the faculty in regards to due process in
the investigations ofsexual harassment,
since no other provisions for this sort
of problem exist. I

If Judge Byrd decides to grant the
motion for demurrer, the case will
be dismissed.

One of W&L’s attorneys, Leanne
Shanks, ﬁled a letter in opposition to
Heatley’s lawyers oral argument
Oct. 25.

She called the causeofaction Smith
would like to create a “runaway tort”
that would do “irreparable damage.”
As part of her defense, she cited an-
other part of the Virginia Code.

“Nothing in this chapter creates,
nor shall it be construed to create, an
independent or private cause of action
to enforce its provision, nor shall poli-
cies or provisions of thischapter be
construed to allow tort actions to be
instituted instead of or in addition to
the current statutory actions for unlaw-

How can you studywrith-all that racket?

A Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

ful discrimination,” the Code states.

IfthejudgedoessidewithHeatley’s
lawyers in this case, the suit
will proceed.

A Washington and Lee student studies on the benches between Parmly Hall and the Leyburn Library, seemingly
oblivious to the noisy construction on the new science center.

Freshman election
results tabulated

By MICHAEL Hl:ZWLE'l'l‘
I’/ii Staff Writer

The freshmen can look forward to a class
party as one of the goals of their new elected
representatives.

Freshmen run-off elections were held
on Tuesday.

The results are as follows: Chris Baldwin,
Class President; Mary Jo Mahoney, Class Vice-
Prcsident; and Taylor Sluiltz, Executive Com-
mittcc Rcprcscntative.

Baldwin said the
class party was one of
the ways he wanted to
get freshmcn more in-
volved with activities
on campus.

The party is tenta-
tively scheduled atthe
end of the year.

Mahoncysaidthey
will work closely with
the Freshmen Leader-
ship Council.

Tnc president and
vice-president will re-
vicw cases brought
before the Student
Conduct Committee.

Baldwin said he

. fclt honored and ex-

cited about being
clcctcd. and he looked for\vard to serving the
class as president.

“l‘ expect a lot of participation from a strong
frcshmcn class.“ he said, “and I personally
expecttoworkhardaspresidcntinfulfillingthe

, obligation which the office requires.”

Shultz

Baldwin said he ran for office because he
had the leadership abilities as well as the coin-
mitment to successfully lead the class. Baldwin
said he found a friendly atmosphere at Wash-
ington and Lee University. He was most im-
pressed by the Honor System.

“I saw a good deal of cheating in high
school,” Baldwin said, “and I wanted an atmo-
sphere where no one received an unfair advan-
tagc in academic competition.”

Mahoney agreed.

“You can feel like you can trust everybody
at the school.” she said.

She said she loved
the campus, the
people, and the
location.

Mahoney said she
ran for office because
she wanted to involve
hcrselfinstudcntgov-
crnment at W&L. She
was class treasurer at
Sevcrna High School.

Baldwin was never
involved in student
government at his
school, Mornton
Brook High School.
He had leadership
roles in various orga-
nizations such as the
National Honor Soci-
cty and the Key Club.

Shultz attended Fort Worth Cl‘ll'l.Slllll'l High
School where he was president of the
Student Council.

Sluiltz said he is glad to get a chance to serve
on the BC.

“I basically want to provide the E.C. with the

Mahoney

perspective ofa typical freshmen,” he said.

“I see the EC. as a chance to enhance the
reputation ofourclass by serving diligently and
honorably and with competence.”

He said the E.C. was representative of the
reason he came to W&L and he wanted to be
part of that tradition, which includes the
Honor System.

Writers Harvest helps the hungry

I’/ii Staff Writer

By lVll(‘|lAlEl. l’l|,’.W|.li’|'l‘

Uni\'crsity’s Lcyburn Library.

directly to the Blue Ridge Food Bank.

On Wednesday, Nov. 2, at S p.m. local authors will fight hunger
in Share Our Strcngth’s third annual Writers Harvest: The National
Reading. the country’s largest literary benefit to fight hunger. The
reading will held in the Northcn Auditorium at Washington and Lee

The readers are Assistant English professor Claudia Andrews;
Kevin Batteh. Temple Cone, and Ashlie Kauffman. W&L students;
and story writer Toni Williams. This year all proceeds will go

Professor Edwin Craun, the head ofthc English Department, said
the \Vritcrs llarvest was first held at W&L last year. He said Beth
Webb Jclks. a llollins graduate and a student during Illt l‘)‘)l—‘)2

school year. told him about Share Our Strength. Share Our Strength is
a national organi7.ation that encourages creative and professional
people to find ways to combat hunger and homelessness.

He said Share Our Strength is one ofthc volunteerorganizations that
have sprung up in recent years.

The program raised 3500 last year. He said the national reading
usually takes place in bookstores with well-known writers. Craun said
they wanted something different for W&L.

"VVc wanted to do something that involved the whole community
and not just established writers." he said. I A

Craun said most of the work being done to organize the event is
being done by students and the English Department.

Senior Kelly Brotzman said they made some changes in the Writers
l-larvest this year. Last year St) percent ofthc proceeds went to national

to Please see HARVEST, page 2

Lewis speaks on women
in 19th centurypolitics

Many scholars overlook the influence
of women in early Washington

By CINDY Youuo
I’/:[ Staff Writer

Most scholars ofearly American history fail
to address the role of women in politics of the
Rcvolulionar_\' War era.

Not so with .Ian Lewis.

In a speech last Tuesday evening entitled “A
Re-evaluation of

come a form of amusement.

One woman wrote that a visit to Congress
was “as good as going to a play, but here all the
characters are real.”

Another woman described being as much
moved by Congressional speeches as ifshe had
read Milton or Shakespeare.

Senators. finding themselves surrounded by
a significantly female audience, would often
even give up their seats to “the fairer sex.”

As Lewis sug-

Women in Politics.
with Early Wash-
ington, D.C. As /\
Test Case.” Jan
Lewis, Associate
Professor of |Iis-
toryatRutgcrs Uni-
vcrsity, spoke on
exactly this topic.

AnativcofMis-
sissippi and gradu-
ate of Bryn Mawr,
with an M.A. and
l’h.D. from the
University of
Michigan at Ann
Arbor. Lewis has
contributed much
tothcstudyofcarly
American politics.

Lewis began her
speech in an argu-
ment against the
traditional histori-
cal belief that
women did not
contribute to early
American politics.

Using early Washington. D.C. as an ex-
ample. womcn. according to Lewis. were in
fact "almost everywhere” in the
political sphcrc.

Women were present at the laying of the
cornerstone in lh'c US. Capitol Building. and
present for the powerful arguments of Daniel
Webster in thc Supreme Court.

'l‘hc_\' were to be found mingling among
politicians at political parties. balls, and
boarding houscs.

liarly Amcrican women, Lewis further
noted. coimnouly frequented the very galler-
ics of (‘ong-rcss. cxcitcd by the “prospect of

‘~ seeing one of thc nation‘s greatest orators.”

In a town whose plans had originally over-
looked any institutions for public entertain-
ment (tlicatrcs. ctc.). politics in itself had be-

Lewis

gcsted, “In the
dramaofAmcrican
democracy, women
were assigned the
best seats in
the house.”
Politicians
would often tailor
speeches to their
significantly fe-
male audiences.
“Speakers,” ac-
cording to Lewis.
would“speaktothc
emotion, and not
mind, of the
audience.”
Women. then.
not only helped
compose early
Wasliingtoii soci-
ety. but also helped
shape its politics
as well.
Lewis admitted

Washingtonian

women partici-
patcd so directly; they were in actuality the
exception of their gviulcr.

"Yet the participation [of privileged women
in politics] demonstratcsthat gender. neithcrin
principle nor in practice. was an exclusion“ in
itself. Lewis argued.

During the Golden Age of American poli-
tics. Lewis concluded. women not only could.

but did. contribute to the political character of

the government in whose capital they rcsidcd.

Lewis’ lecture complements courscs offered
by the History Department. llistor_\-' 357: The
History of Women in America. l(i()‘)-I870 to
the Present are two such classes.

They are taught by Professor Roberta
Scncchal and focus on the major political. so-
cial, and cultural themes concerning American
women throughout Eiistory.

that only the elitcof

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

  The World

Clinton begins Mideast Peace Tour

President Clinton arrived in Cairo Wednesday to begin a six-nation
tourto promote peace in the Middle East. Clinton gathered with 5000 other
dignitaries near the Jordan-Israel border to watch the signing of the peace
treaty between those two countries. The President’s visit comes after
recent terrorist attacks in the Middle East, leading to heightened security
concerns.

Russian oil spill worse than Exxon Valdez

A ruptured pipeline leaked two million barrels of oil into the Russian
Arctic. Ofﬁeials say the leak was months old, but a dam placed to contain
the leak burst in the past few days. The hot oil soaked the permafrost and
posed potential environmental damage to the area. The volume of the spill
is approximately eight times that of the Exxon Valdez spilled in Alaska in
1989.

Aristide picks Prime Minister

Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide selected a Prime Minister
Tuesday. The American-educated commodities trader Smarck Michel is
a strong supporter of free-market trade. The Haitian government expects
to carry out a broad-reaching economic plan including privatization of
new industries and providing much needed jobs.

Experts recommend easing plague precautions

Specialists from the World Health Organization investigating the
Indian outbreak of pneumatic plague recommended relaxing restrictions
on travellers into the country. The team said that New Dehli, Bombay,
Calcutta, and Madras should be regarded as plague-free. The World
Health Organization said that only 300 people nationwide, out of a total
population of 920 million had contracted the disease.

The Nation

 

Chavis settles with NAACP

The Rev. Benjamin Chavis has agreed to withdraw his suit against the V ‘V

civil rights organization which he formally led. The agreement falls short
of Chavis’ original demand of payment until his three-year contract was
up. Chavis will recieve $12,300 from the NAACP. Chavis ﬁled suit in
August, after the group’s board dismissed him for settling a sexual
harassment complaint with the board’s money.

Houston channel reopens

The Houston Ship Channel reopened Monday after crews removed a
sunken tugboat and ensured no flood debris was blocking the port.
Flooding caused the channel to close a week ago. Officials say swirling
wateror debris caused at least four pipelines to rupture, leading to ﬁres that
burned on the water. The cleanup has cost up to $3.5 million, coming from
the Federal Oil Pollution Trust Fund.

Ito refuses to dismiss jury pool

Judge Lance lto denied Simpson prosecutor Marcia Clark’s bid to
dismiss the first pool of 77 prospective jurors, and possibly all 300 who
have completed questionnaires. Clark requested the dismissal, saying
most jurors were lying to be selected in the ease. Ito turned her down, as
he did a defense plea to release Simpson on bail and delay the trial.

Judge I)ars return of Cuban refugees

A Florida judge on Wednesday barred the Clinton Administration
from turning over a group of detained refugees to Havana. The refugees
are being detained at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. The emergency order
blocked the last-minute flight of 23 refugees requesting repatriation. A
hearing on whether to grant a restraining order to block other flights has
been scheduled.

The State

Walsh denies he cleared North in drug trafficking
‘investigation ’ . '

Iran-(‘ontra prosecutor l.a\vrence Walsh denied Republican Senate
Candidate ()li\'erNorth’sclaim that \Va|sh’sinvestigationcleared North’s
allegations of (fontra drug trafficking operations. Walsh said he did not
investigate the allegations at all. Democrat Charles Robb’s campaign last
week raised the issue of North not reporting drug trafficking information
to authorities. North maintained that an investigation by Walsh shows no
evidence of information.

.lMU Senate votes to recite pledge before meetings

The Student Senate at JMU voted in favor of reciting the pledge of
allegiance before their weekly student government meetings. This vote
overrode an earlier veto of a pro-pledge vote. Pledge opponents say the
pledge is too religious and wrongly states that “liberty and justice for all
exists in the United States.”

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

I

NEWS

 

Thg ﬂing-tum Phi, Oetobgr 23. 1994

Laundry just the Way it is back home

 

 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-rum Phi

The mother of a Washington and Lee freshman does the laun
dorm during Parent's Weekend. Apparently,

dry of her child in the new laundry room in Gilliam
the student wanted laundry done with a professional “mom” touch.

Writers Harvest
helps the needy

to HARVEST, from page 1

hunger relief organizations while the
rest went to local relief organizations
such as the Blue Ridge Food Bank.
Brotzman said this year all the money
raised will go to local organizations.

She said people are more likely to
contribute ifthey know the money will
go to local efforts. She said local
grassroots efforts are more efficient.

Craun agreed.

“Money is going in the best eco-
nomical way for people who need it,”
he said.

“lt’s a very direct way for students
and faculty to help by coming to the
reading and contributing.”

Brotzman said fewer writers are
reading from their work this year. Last
year six people read whereas this year
only five people are reading. She said
they wanted to give the readers more
time.

“There seems to be just a lot of
talent in thejunior and senior writers,”

she said, “and we just wanted to
showcase it.”Brotzman was impressed
with student interest in the arts.

“There’s a greater interest in liter-
ary events here in recent years,” he
said, “and that accounts for the popu-
larity of the Writers Harvest last year
and the poetry readings the Society for
the Arts have had.”

Senior Ashlie Kauffman said last
year’s Writers Harvest seemed very
professional and drew many people
from the community.

“lt’s a Hands Across America thing
but we’re not holding hands,” she said.

Andrews said she will read two nar-
rative poems, a new one and a pub-
lished poem. She said if writers can
attract an audience for a larger cause,
it’s a positive.

“lt’s the first time l’ve done some-
thing like this,” she said, “l think typi-
cally writers are solitary people with a
social conscience.

“This is the first time when those
two parts of myself can be
in harmony.”

PILSA sparks interest

Law Notes

Law professors work on research

projects

The brand new Public interest Law Students Associa-

tion has made an immediate impact on the Law School
campus. Just a month old, this association has signed up
one fifth of the law school as members, and has already
hosted a panel discussion and conducted an extremely
successful fund-raiser during Parent‘s Weekend.

in early October, PILSA led a number of student
groups in bringing to W&L a broadcast of “First Mon-
day,” a celebration of public interest law including such
areas as government prosecuting, public defending, and
Legal Aid, which provide counsel to those unable to
afford any.

A panel discussion followed, with a number of law
professors, a law student, and a local Legal Aid lawyer
discussing their work. answering questions and discuss-
ing the benefits of working in the public interest sector.
One of the benefits was the feeling of satisfaction they
got for helping someone with legal affairs who may
otherwise be left out in the cold.

Pl LSA also ran an extremely successful fund-raiserat
the football game on |’arent’s Weekend, working the
concessions during the game and earninga I5 percent cut
of the proceeds. This money will be put in the bank and

A numberofprofessors at the Law School have or are
currently working on research projects outside their
teaching duties. The projects include research on copy-
right laws as related to the Information Superhighway
and the Internet, preparation for an improved course in
Elder Law, which specializes in legal issues concerning
the elderly, such as age discrimination, housing, and
Medicare, and recommendations on how to reconcile
conflicting portions ofthe Americans with Disabilities
Act and the National Labor Relations Act.

SBA sponsors upcoming events

Upcoming social events at the Law School spon- '
sored by the Student Bar Association include the “Bridge
the Gap” party on the Law School Fields on Friday from
4 to 6 p.m., where undergraduate seniors and members
of the Law School get together for food and drink while
they socialize and get to know one another. On Friday
night, the SBA will hold a l-lallowccn party at the Phi

used to fund grants for internships in the public sector.

Gamma Delta house from 9 p.m. to midnight.
Law Notes are compiled by Eric Swenson

Reading days: party or study hall?

By .lt-:sst('A /\N't'()Nl(‘ll
I’/Ii Staff Writer

Reading days. were they used for
theiroriginal intent orasjust an excuse
to party‘? Professors and students have
vcr_v differingopinions on the pros and
Cons of Washington and l.ee’s first
fall break.

Most students agreed that the break
was more than beneficial totheir health
and their sclioolwork. it gave them a
much needed L‘ll:lllCt' to catch up on
sleep and the work Ihcy‘ve been put-
ting off for the first six weeks of the
tcrtn. .|unior Dani Wong said although
in _vears past she‘s been too busy to
notice the toll that ten weeks without a
break had taken on her. this year was a
nice change. She stayed in Lexington,
and like many other students, didn’t
get very much reading done. Fresh-
man Sara l\lc(icorge also'staycd in
Lexington but had the chance to visit a
few fr_icnds over the prolonged week-
end. Like Dani. Slit‘ t_lit|n"t do much
work but had the good excuse that she
didn't lniye much to do. She said she
did see one problem with the reading

days, and it was the fact that a lot of
students didn’t show up to their
Wednesday classes. She said a few of
her professors were upset and claimed
this would be the end ofthe fall break.
Jen Brady. a freshman from New Jer-
sey. got the chance togo home and visit
with her family. She felt, as a freshman
at the beginning of the year. it would
have been horrible to have to wait until
Thanksgiving fora break.

Mixed rcvie\vs are coming in from
the administration. Dean Peppers‘ sec-
retary has heard quite positive remarks
from students who finally got a chance
to catch up on work and believes that
most people used Thursda_v and Friday
to work and treated the \veckcnd nor-
mally. l-lowcvcr. from what she hears.
the professors are rather ambivalent.
Some think that it was a positive expe-
rience while other professors feel that
students just used it as another excuse
to party longer.

ProfessorRushtookthe readingdays
as an opportunity to grmle papers. He
said although it was a nice break it
wasn‘t particulary ncccss try and won-
ders if students took time to actually

read during the break. in response to
the complaint that students have to go
ten weeks without a break during fall
term. he said. "That’s the price you
have to pay for spring term.”
Professor Hall was a little iuore
positive about the reading days and
said he thinks "students need this break
in order to put their studies into per-
spective and catch their breath.”
l)avid Howison. Dean ofStudents.
said two years ago he suggested a break
ofonly one day but it was voted down
by the faculty. The next time they
proposed a two day break and it was
approved by a 2to I vote. Even though
some are opposed. the reading days

- will happen next year because they

were voted into the schedule before
this year's break. in Howison’s opin-
ion, the reading days have achieved
many of the goals the administration
had hoped for and it was a good break
in the hectic academic life of a
W&Lstudcnt.

lle cmphasi7.es the point that the
concept of reading days will be re-
evaluated in the future. but he is opti-
mistic that thcy \\ ill continue.

 

Making strides
against cancer

By,KELLY TOTTEN
P/ii Staff Writer

Cancer. We all know someone af-
flicted with the disease. Whether it is a
relative, friend, neighbor, or teacher,
each cancer victim affects us in some
way. We learn from their strong will
and courage. Their faith and hope
strengthen our own morale. We all
know these people, and we want to
help them. On Sunday, October 30, we
have the chance.

Chi Omega sorority, the Catholic
Campus Ministry, and the American
Cancer Society are co-sponsoring a 5-
mile “move-along-athon.” The event
benefits cancer victims on both local
and national levels and goes
towards research.

According to the American Cancer
Society, “it’s a chance for everyone,
including cancer patients, recovered
cancer patients, their families and
friends to raise money and awareness
while celebrating the reality that can-
cer can be beaten.”

“Move-alongers”receivedonations
for their efforts from sponsors. This
sixth-annual event hopes to raise $2000
for the American Cancer Society.

Last year, Making Strides brought
in over $1 50(). Prizes will be given out
to participants who turn in the
most money.

First prize winner will receivea $40
gift certificate for money. First prize
winner will receive a $40 gift certifi-
cate for dinner at the Southern lnn.
Other prizes include a month member-
ship to the Lexington Fitness Center,
free haircuts from both Marlene’s and
Maric’s 21 Dave Matthews CD courtesy
of Night Owl Music, and more.

Those wishing to participate may
pick up registration forms at the Co-op.

Registration begins at 12:30 at Har-
risTeeter,with startingtimc beginning
at 1:30. A $5 registration fee is re-
quired from all participants.

The American Cancer Society of-
fers students an ideal chance to
give something to the people of
this community.

Bring some friends and join the
Rockbridge Community in "Making
Strides to beat cancer.” ~

 

 

 

 
     
   

‘I/l/@“Li e

     

 

fantastic, especially Samuel Jackson.

1
. _ . 4 M PAGE 3
'_\ g A .
1 . 9 v
  small town family-run business versus cially its technicality. J c a n n e _While negative opinions have been ‘ V » A . _‘  
_ _— -"’ bigindustry. LawrenceGarfinkle(Bob Dillon, W&L ’96, plays the lawyer voiced, the actors have found redeem— ' "
gﬁi de Maria, Washington and Lee Profes— who uses her sexy appeal to mampu- ing qualitiesin the production.
By D AN ODENWALD sor of Journalism) plans to takeover a late Garfinkle. Dillon said, “Th6 Cast IS strong and
' ' '“ bd‘ ‘t"t k'th f '
“‘ ”’"’ S‘a‘*W“t°' Ss'L‘.?llel’l"vvSr‘l§°§,?.§f‘E:'at5’i‘éSl§‘§.?;,al.';° by §lé°ai‘il§l; al.'l°n‘$l‘il.§§i§r‘Li Eeééliﬂ Ltiﬁéﬁieleiiisrlé of‘.’l.‘2 §?§!;lZL‘l§T5
b A d ew Jor enson (Severn it’s not strong enough. lfthe actors set A veteran of theatre, de Maria was
 the recent negative buzz llglllllvalll, Wrilﬁclr. Profeséor of English). a good pace. and use the text to its excited when J.D. Martinez (W&L
surrounding the opening of the latest The two men battle over the future of fullest.potential,the production will be Associate Professor of Theatre), the
‘ Lenfest Center production, “Other the company during the annual stock- fine.” . “ I ' dlI‘680l'{,:'aEFI‘02;_(‘ll’l6d him ab%uthpltay-
People’s Money,” the cast and crew is holdersi meeting. “ Bob de Maria added, The p ay is ing ar in. e. eleommeptte a t e
gearing up for a successful run. ‘ Criticism has plagued Other shallow, but ‘not as shallow as e\:ier1y- 3/as enjodyintg wor ing Wl new s u-
Written byJerry Sterner,the play is People’s Money. Castmembers have one says it is. The .script.is a u t’—, en: an] acdi(rjigdo:ce.more.f t I
a tale of the age—old struggle between voiced concern over the script, espe- orientedandshowssociety at itsworst. the V 51: isnoa e t at itwas un op ay
Q ‘‘I get to be nasty and swear. After
the play, I go home and put my alter-
ego (Garfinkle) in a drawer and take
out the trash for my wife.”
Other cast members include Denis
Riva, W&L/97,playingWilliam Coles,
‘ President of Southern Wire and Cable,
and Elizabeth Weaver, W&L ’95, play-
ing Bea, Jorgenson’s loyal friend and
assistant.
Martinez was excited about work-
I, ing withthe W&Lprofessors whom he
has long admired.
About Duvall’s portrayal of
Jorgenson, he said, “...l knew he was
the perfect person to portray the one
‘ irreducibly moral characterinthis alle-
gorical comedy.”
Concerning de Maria’s portrayal of
Garfinkle, he needed, “...an actor who
could be tremendously convincing
when trumpeting his point ofview, yet
4 at the same time, painfully caustic!”
Martinez supports the choice of his
script and believes the play will be well
received by the audience. . .
“Others People’s Money,” said _ Pubhclty Photo
K Martinez, “is contemporary, the style Washington and Lee professors.Severn Duvall (as Andrew
is comedic, the locale is relevant, and Jorgenson) and Robert de Maria (as Larry Garfinkle)
the moral issues are universal.” rehearse for other People '3 Money,
The actors are nervously anticipat-
_ . v ing opening night. Performance dates are October 28, is selling tickets now.
. _ Pllbllcgty Pll°t° De Maria said, “Everyone handles 29, 31 at 8:00 p.m. and October 30 at The play contains strong language
K Bea Sullivan (Elizabeth Weaver ’95) 138115 8 thlllg 01‘ two to Kate Sulhvan (Jeanne Dluon the jitters differently. I feel like Cap— 2:00 p.m. and adult situations and is not recom-
’96) during a rehearsal of Other People 's Money. tain Jello.” The Lenfest Box Office (463-8000) mended for children,
0 I Q
Scllic ma RC5 is wag south Worrell mixes poetry and song
91
‘ _ to see her many, many times since,” said musi-
Tlircc-mémbcr Group Comcs 10 acoustic COWCCHOUSC  :::‘3:;:.§::::::a:”::;:::iisaizizlsazl
“lt’s not like this is just for indepen- ‘ 1993 Washington Area Music Award for best
W By JUSTINE LAMONT dent students,” she said. Raised in the Blue Ridge Mountains on producer.
Special to the Phi In contrast to SAB-sponsored ac— everything from Bluegrass to the Bee Gees, Doorsopen for=Worrell»-at8:«30 p.m. Admis-
'  _ “ jtivities in tlie’pit,"admission is free and , .S,hannon Worrell has been performing profes- sion is $2 at the door. Beer will be provided
A 3'ln°lnb°l aoonsllo gl'oUP wlll llansfonn "students can’t*buybeer at these events. lsionally since she was seventeen. .  with proper ID. , .. l
‘he GHQ lnlo aooffeollonse agaln Fl’ldaY nlglll ‘‘I’m just providing something else WorrellwillbelperforminginflieGHQ ' ' '  ' " ' ' ‘ ‘ " ‘ '  i T
at 9330- for students to do,” Richarson said. on Thursda , November 3, s nsoredsb ‘Stu-' O
,1 Settle ls named after lls female lead Vocal» “...If no one showed up at all because dent Activifies Board. P0 y
and a gnltal anda bass Player back no’ “P- there wasn’t alcohol, I might bealittle This past year Worrell has been working on
Student AollVlll°s Cooldlnalol Mlollello more concerned about it.” her first CD, Three Wishes, which was released
Richardson said that the group plays a mixture Richard Said Sheis not opposed to in _]u]y_ '
of lls own lnuslo and PoPnlal °oV5l songs having alcohol there, but that the pur- Forging a sound of her own with Three
( “They get n°lVoUs goiiigto Colleges beoanso pose of a coffeehouse is probably not to Wishes, resonant of both Rickie Lee Jones and
‘ a lo‘ of Pfsogle don? llko bands that llaVo lllell get drunk anyway. _ Bjork, Worrell hosts the unlikely gathering of
0WD music, Said R1CllaldS0ﬂ- Many students seem to think that dobro, cello, bagpipes, mandolin, banjo, saxo-
some Plays songs from a wldo range of the lack of beer at acoustic eoffee- hone and uitar.
afllS_lS,inClndl_ng lo-000 lVl3l'1l3C_S,lanls loPllna houses doesn’t seem to make a real P She credgits hercreativewritingprofessors at
Mollssa Elnondg? and Palsy Clln‘_’- difference. Junior Anna Bentley, who the University of Virginia for helping her turn
4 Rlonaldson sald she knew some was wonll has attended three coffeehouses, is one “adolescent soul babble” into poetry. That
getting because she saw the group three times oft]-1em_ poetry ended up in her Sdngs_
wllllo she was ln College ln Springfield, “I think that the coffeehouse situa- “l don’twant to be pigeon-holed asasinger-
Massaoll“ss"°s- Ssnlellas Played all 0V"-T ll“? tion is not necessarily one where, re— Publicity Photo songwriter but I wouldn’t fit on the indie-rock
noflllsasli _l>Ul playing ln l-exlnglon wlll be a gardless of where it was, you’d feelyou Settle l5 the lead female V0031 f0l‘ the bandwagon either. I listen to everything from
new °XPfn°n°e- _ had to get wasted,” she said. “The group Settie. Pavement to Patsy Cline and I want to make
ll fsllf s Plsll)’ PoPnlal' “P nolllla” Rllfllaldson premise behind it seems more intellec- _ . _ . music that can s.omeho_w.praise all of that.”
sald-” The lowest south she s gone ls Mal)“ tual than strictly ‘fun.”’ 7 other activities. Van Dyke said that the no-beer Guest vocalists Kristin Asbury and Dave
land~ _ ’ _ _ Jon Van Dyke, chairman ofthe Society for policy is not a big deal because students always Matthews offer distinctive counterpoints to
» Fllday _s aoousno Coffeehouse wlll oofllo the Ans, said coffeehouse-type activities pro- have the option of drinking elsewhere. Worrell’s vocals. A little too sweet at times,
flflhlllallslonardson llasolganlZ°dalWaslllng' vide “a much-needed alternative social event.” Bentley said she likes the mellow atmo- Worrell’s voice can be suddenly scary and
1 lon and l-do Sllo sald that 100 to l50.P°oPl° In a fraternity himself, Van Dyke said that sphere of acoustic Coffeehouses. always startling.
attended each of the Past Coff9€ll0US€S, lnClUd' the coffeehouses can be a good study break or “it’s one ofthe few social events here where “The first time I heard Shannon play was the
lng PeoPle ln flalelnllles and olllel gloUPs- a kind of pre-party before students go on to you can actually talk to your friends.” first time she heard meplay, and l’ve been back . . .
O O Q Q . O
'~ Brilliant Pulp PlCi'101’l W Ofth a tflp t0 Roanoke
This ﬁlm has been touted has a comeback vehicle for job with acertain relish and humor, but never too much style Though the movie is full of tight and nervous situations, he
I.  Trlatvolta anpl Willis, and indeed it may be, since they orhpanache. Tlligy are auth:ntic blue-collar hitmen, with isable to inject laughterinto sceneswithout decreasing their
0 pe _orm we . _ w om youcou easi y sit own to a cup of coffee. incredible tension.
doelztatlgt is safe to scalty tthatsthielentiﬁe eastt, the ac”tor Wh? ritAlong_side the maingalctors arela whole host ofothers, who At the same time, his directing keeps the filmmoving at
By KIRK SUSONG . ” eas -goo jo is . i i ._ is c arac er is a man 0 pe orm in a yariety o esser ro es. a brisk pace. Even the long, slow scenes have interesting
_ _ , action, and the closest this movie comes to a hero. Theyaren tquitecameos, but theyoccupy thecamera for shots which keep the audience’s attention on the movie
‘ Pl" MW"; Revlewer This presumably explains why it seems Willis_wants to very little time. I . screen itse1f_ _
Erezlik intlo eithlerl Dfze_ Hardumode -—hsorr;§r1s;ultirlig hover What iski;etr)riarkable is that this diverse and disconnected Many people have criticized Tarantino for the amount of
ro en g ass w i e inng an zi —or is o oon lg ting group oou e so consistently excellent. Making appear- violencein his movies, andthat complaint holds true in Pulp
ways— ﬁring off one—liners while staring at the camera with ances are Eric Stoltz, Rosanna Arquette, ChristopherWalken, Fiction as well. After all, the film’s subjects are almost all
Pulp Fiction — \i‘ri‘n."r‘:‘: a sly grin and a wink in his eye. Harvey Keitel, Julia Sweeney, and even Tarantino himself. hard-edged criminals who ive little thou ht to the death of
Perhaps you have seen his debut ﬁlm, Reservoir Dogs ' Willis would not look quite as weak if it weren’t for the As great as the cast is, this movie owes the sum of its a man. g g
‘ Maybe you saw his name in the credits for Natural Born Other performances. Samuel Jackson and John Travolta are brilliance to Tarantino. However, I didn’t think that the violence detracted from
Killers. Recently HBO has been showing True Romance, amazing as the down-to—earth murderers,who perform their His screenplay crackles with wit, drama and insight. the ﬁlm,orthatTarantino ever employed it forits own sake.
which he wrote. Whatever you know or have heard, be There is very little gore, since we practically never see
pre£l:)rllgwood’s newest hot young director’ f l H’ I o ljellid tbmlly; ltlllle violfhlcto iSllm(()re '“k§llz‘tOdl)e dilsﬁuroing
. ‘ ‘ , . _is orrea. 1S ' ineecuay anaes eicayasin cm er’s ist.
m. name is Quentin Tarantino, and he is brilliant. Ratlng Scalﬁ Of course, there is a lot of drug use in addition to the
His latest release, Pulp Fiction, has a complex storyline, . , _ _ _ ' _ “ , violence, and plenty of bad language, so l wouldn’t recom-
following three separate groups of people. First we meet ﬁlsfﬂfﬁ — G0 buy lllls as soon as ll Comes out on Vldoo- ll ls all lllslanl olasslC- You ll mend taking either your grandmother or your grandson
“Honey Bunny” and “Pumpkin” (Amanda Plummer and laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something about yourself.” along with you.
Tim R‘:‘dl‘,)’a§‘?”j’l°t°fba“l“Fél’l’be’s“led oft“? ‘samg old: iﬁnﬁriﬁr — Go see this film now, while it’s still on the big screen. It’s worth a few Oscar Wlla‘ ll bolls down ‘O ls lna‘ Pull? FlC’i0'1 is 3 film
same 0 an in e _ - - - - . . “ ' ' ,
‘A’ Second we areninltlrlooirliglelcl ‘log: <r:‘r:iSrttft=E]rlz:)rill]nl:/l(':i2fcellus nommaoons and the Seven bucks you,“ pay lfyou See It Outslde Lexington" Overall’ Better pmlCtt’lsCagI(l))t,  swirling Plot but the directin
9 7: 9 ‘ "
Wallace, his beautiful wife Mia (Uma Thurman), and two of than Cats! _ keeps us attentive and understanding. The characters are full
his hit men, Vic (John Travolta) and Jules (Samuel,lackson)_ i":i‘r—— Okay, so there have been better films. Nevertheless, it is a good example ofits genre, and round, due not just to subtle, even-handed acting, but
Finally,_ we meet :1 lioxer, Vossler “Butch” Coolidge and you should probably see it on Videotape. Still, probably “Better than Cats!” also to lively, Clever dialogue.
I‘ ggrfélxﬂlavoxgo dldn“ lake ‘he dive he Pfomlsed i‘z~— It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off tomorrow’s reading. Although your d_ The _°ln°mal°gf3P(;l)' lS_ nellllef 50 ”ﬁn.V” €115 l0 l‘€‘C0m<'
_ _ - ‘ - - - , istracting, nor so pe estrian as to put us to s cep.
The plot itself is altogether too complicated to explain time would probably be better served on your oouoaoon’ Its froo and you re bored’ so go The rating scale for ”7ir<Z§riL7i§“ says in jest, "You’ll
here, but suffice it to say that Tarantino weaves various ahead and watch 1_t' ' laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn .
storylines in and out of each other. Despite the scope ofthe N0 stars — Even If its free and your best friend said he never laughed harder, trust me, something about yourself.”
activity and the size ofthe cast,there are very few confusing this one sucks. Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste it on this. (There’s ln Pulp Fiction you have a film that will actually do all
moments,andthe entire film is ableto retainacertain clarity / MTV ofthosethings,simu1taneous1y, I don’t know how much the
d . . always .) _ _
- m3ll)’0ll1€l', l€SSC0mPllC21lC<l films 1086. ' film would lose on videotape, but l say don’t take the
The acting is simply superb. The whole cast is absolutely chance. lfever a film was worth a trip to Roanoke, this is it.

 

 

IN THE BLEACHERS

by Steve Moore

 
 

 
   
     
      

... LUCRECIA, YOU 60
LONG. WINONA, DO A
SQUARE-OUT... AND EZRA,
YOU STAY BACK AND LAY
A CURSE 0N ANYONE Mlo
TRIES To SACK ME.

  

 

No oNs.’s
BUWNGTHESE
TURKEYS...
2 C
o

 

    
 

 

 

SHOE

  

The Ring-tum Phi, Octobe 

 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM

; I THEN TAKE
,, nus BACK TO }
THE KITCI-EN.
 ' I 5. ‘ .0 — ’

ﬂﬁhnldhitvinhmlqiulmnd

 

by Mike Peters

  
     
  
 
  

2
ti

_aL_,>)\->‘\\

L-—~————:-\\

  

n

" §“““:.;;:;;; taomze FuLL....4Jou'Re

w VER-R-R-R45 FULL...T0O FULL
1 -mamsu THAT5TEAK....
  an

ts-'~:_\\\\‘

 

 
  
   

 

. ’/ /
.4697‘ A
‘'‘';''.‘_‘'‘L‘.'‘.

1 9':

 

‘pt’ 8:30 C $2’ at ‘1the'VDIoor If
 V v;e2j_A_12Zzilai§le Proper ID pf:

MIXED MEDIA
by Jack Ohman

FINAL SIGN
THE
BRITIS;-I MONARCHV
I
DOOMED.

O1994T'bu Medi Services‘
$H~,p.-~ Allﬂlgqatsnﬁeesewead. kw‘

,. J, H V

‘V/''_(\"»_ (in ,1,‘ ,,',
, . 

 

ATTENTION STUDENTS
INTERESTEDIN

COMMERCIAL BANKING

THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF MARYLAND will
interview on Friday November 18, 1994. All senior finance and
business majors are invited to sign up for our recruiting sched-
ule. Also, we will have an information session on Thursday
November 17, 1994 beginning at 7:00 p.m. in room 114 of the
University Center.

We are recruiting for our Commercial Relationship Develop-
ment training program.“ As the world of corporate financial
services has become increasingly complex and competetive, the
role of the traditional commercial banker has evolved accord-
ingly. In order to maintain existing relationships and develop
profitable new business for the Bank, today’s banking environ-
ment demands a new breed of banking professional.

Our training program looks for candidates who have a desire to
market and sell financial sevices such as credit, cash manage-
ment and treasury services. Candidates must also possess strong
analytical, negotiating and decision making skills.

If you are interested in finding out more about our Bank and our
excellent training program, please register for our interview day
and make plans to atten the information session.

 

.__ ...,_ _*._ 

i
l
l
l

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1994

 

ADVERTISEMENT

1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

.I

HOW TO KEEP PEOPLE'S
HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY.

6 Carry only enough cash to last the day.
Anyone who tries to borrow your last ﬁve spot
isn't a friend, anyway

6 Label your spare-change jar “beetle farm.”
Then, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled
“spare change."

6 Mark up every space on checks.
Don’t leave room for someone to ﬁll in their
name and extra zeros.

3 Keep your wallet in your front pocket.
It discourages picl<pocl<ets. So does wearing
really tight pants.

3 Put your picture on your credit card.
A Citibank Photocard is toughfor anyone else
to use, unless they look just like you.

WE'RE EOOKING OUT FOR YOU.
To apply, call l—800—C|TlBANK.

 

© I994 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A.

 

  

PAGE 6

@112 ‘itting-tum iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897 A

60/40: No complaints here

All things considered, we at The R."/lzg-tum Phi actually
support the 60-40 ratio which has been under fire so much
recently.

Aside from the surface response to the question, Should we
keep the (>0-40 ratio‘? (that being, “Well....why the heck not?”),
there are many solid reasons to keep it ll: place.

First, it seems to be a very convincing and effective way of
compromising between those who would eschew the value of
tradition at Washington and Lee University and those who insist
that women are necessary to raise the qua‘ ity of the members of
the stude.nt body. We would agree with both sides of the
argument and with the compromise; the high ranking and name
recognition brought tnost ofus here, tradition keeps us here, and
the quality of the student body will hopefully send us out to more
and better jobs than any single-sex school would have.

Second, it seetns to reflect some ofour nest heritage. In 1973
(when most of this year’s seniors were born), a student referen-
dum was taken, and 59 percent were in favor ofcoeducation and
41 percent were opposed. There is nothing like upholding the
strange and prophetic cycles of history.

Third, the social balance that has been s‘ ruck with the existing
ratio seems to be working wonderfully. I have seldom heard
anyonecomplain of a lack of available males or females. What
seems to be a common complaint at many much larger schools
is never heard at Washington and Lee. The formal functions
which proliferate at W&L are always populated heavily and
almost exclusively by couples. There is reither a lack ofavail-
able "dates“ nor a lack of interest in social functions which
require them.

The arguments against an uneven ratio seem to be rather
random. Certainly. it ismoredifficultfor twoman to getinthan
it is for an equally qualified man; but it is also more prestigious
for a woman (who is probably smarter than her male competi-
tors) to win an election or gain a position of leadership and to
simply graduate. No one complains that l larvard is discrimina-
tory because it is easier for, say, Native American females than
equally qualified white anglo-saxon Prctestant males to gain
admittance. Because W&L women are, on the tnathematical
average. about 33 percent smarter than W&L men, does that hurt
either the women or the men? The men get the benefit of higher
rankings and brighter classmates to “help them study” and the
women can feel superior and find it easier to break into leader-
ship roles.

Overall. the findings ofthe Co—educatit in Review Committee
were based upon a body of evidence which was, though well-
researched. somewhat superficial and definitely did not reflect
the opinions of even St) percent ofthe unbalanced student body.

60-40. We like it. l..et’s keep it the way it is.

Quote of the Week:

“If they want the VMI experience, why don’t they
just marry one of the bastards?”

--/in I I Palazzo customer getting right
to /I(’(II'( of the VMI cceducatiorz issue.

OPINION

(

-§.\__

/

__,_._._..:__..

The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1994

  

..-- ~\ \&\\§\\§§_&\
 \‘\‘
§

  
 

MID-Tam GRADES Ron. our

Where have all the Puritans gone?

     

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

It has always been patriotic to say
that America was founded by men and
women dedicated to the principles of
liberty and toleration. We have always
liked to think of ourselves as harbin-
gers of enlightenment, bringing de-
mocracy and equality to all the world.
But this is only partly true. There is
another side to America — one which
these days we commonly like to forget.
The fact is that the first Americans
were not Lockean philosopher-plant-
ers, but Puritans — tough, uncompro-
mising, fire-and-brimstone Calvinists.
They believed unquestioningly in their
Bible and in their way of life, and they
generally stoned anyone else
who didn’t.

Where the common folk of America
were not necessarily Puritans, they were
often conservative Christians of some
other stripe. The point being that the
pioneer myth — that all early Ameri-
cans were really just rugged individu-
alists, wanting just to be left alone — is
false. America, for most of its
history, has been made up ofsmall,
cohesive, and often exclusive and
judgmental Christian communities.

All this, we are understandably
tempted to think, is mere history. The
Puritan ethos has been lost. To a large

extent this is true. But trappings re-
main: America is still vastly more con-
servative on issues of sexual morality
than most European countries (depress-
ing as this fact may seem); this anomaly
can be largely credited to our prim
Calvinist forbears.

And ironically, one of the most bi-
zarre forms of mass communication
prevalent in the United States today,
the so-called Talk Show, is itself a dim
reﬂection of the moral absolutism of
ages past. Talk Shows provide Ameri-
cans, who have lost their old sense of
belonging to any small community, the
opportunity to participate in a
larger, nationwide community of
moral superiors.

One imagines that the gossiping and
frequent displays of moral indignation
that can now be glimpsed daily on
Geraldo or Sally Jessy, would 100 years
ago have taken place in the course of a
tea party in a Victorian parlor, or 300
years ago might have involved a pil-
lory or some kind of water torture. The
deep desire to be part of a morally
superior clique, to showers corn on
the indecent, never disappears, though
its techniques may shift.

The conclusion many Americans
have reached, whether they admit it or
not, is that this legacy of Christian
parochialism is something to be over-
come. The libertarian dream of a pub-
lic order untainted by prejudice, tradi-
tion, or — gasp! —— by religion is
widely popular. Let reason and tolera-
tion be our guides; after all, when you
get right down to it, those Puritans

could be quite mean. And in a
diverse society like ours, isn’ta
concept like “shared values”
doomed to become a code word
for oppression?

We should remember,l think, that
without shared values no community
is possible. If there are no assumptions
that can be taken for granted, if there
is truly no common ground in
America, than we are ultimately justa

live in a community where we belong,
where we feel comfortable, and where
others think like we do. This attitude is
precisely what cosmopolitan, liberal-
minded modemists believe leads to
war, division, and hatred. They are

. right. But the instinct of men to segre-

gate themselves into homogeneous
groups —— groups in which they feel
they “belong” — must be recognized
and dealt with. It does not always need

mish-mash of people who cannot to be a burden; it can, as I mentioned,
dare to be a
struggle source
for any- of great
thing  happi-
like af- ness to
‘°°‘i°“°' We should remember that ‘ '‘ ° 5 e
u n d e r - . w h o
standing, without shared values no find it.
5"‘ °"'Y community is possible... if B°i“8
“toler- . partofa
ance”, there ls truly no common c o m -
0  :0’ ground in America, then we gvigmf
though I are ultrmatelyjust a mrsh- t i 0-n,
u n d e r - sharin

Stand that mash of people who cannot may 08,
cultures dare t0 Struggle for any- life, are
° 3 " thing like aﬁection or un- " ° ‘
s o m e - , ‘ i d e a s
times go derstandmg, but only ‘tol- t h a t
too far ln  need to
asserting be con-
t h e m - signed
selves, to the
do not dustbin

want to live in a nation of lonely indi-
viduals. What makes life worth living,
to a large extent, is the opportunity to

of anthropology, as it were; they are
noble aspirations, not just for archaic
» Puritans, but also for us.

Gilt»: "tiling-tum iﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carroll

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MalcoIm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrew Schneider

The Ring-mm Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-rum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

Race not an issue in

MY VIEW

Michael Hewlett, '96

Everytime I turn around I see the name Charles Murray. The New York
Magazine called him the most dangerous conservative. Newsweek and The New
Republic have cover stories on him. Who is this Charles Murray and why should
we care? Charles Murray came into prominence a few years ago when he
published Losing Ground. In this book he linked out-of-wedlock births to an
expanding welfare state. He called for the abolishment of welfare for -teen-ager
girls who have illegitimate children. He believed this would discourage young
girls fron1 having children out-of-wedlock. How he thinks ending welfare is
going to solve the problem is beyond me. Simplistic in conception, ending
welfare would cause more problems than it would solve. He is again causing
controversy with his new book, The Bell Curve. He co-wrote it with the late
Richard J. Hermstein. Among other things they tackle supposed racial differ-
ences between blacks and whites.

Murray and Hemrstein believe intelligence plays
a signiﬁcant role in dctennining success. In other
words, if you have a low IQ, you will probably not
see the insides of corporate America—much less
the insides of a college dorm. They argue that this
applies to groups and not individuals. They contend
that society is divided into the cognitive elite and the
dim-witted underclass. In a highly technological
society, the gap between the cognitive elite and the
underclass becomes wider.

One might ask: what about environment? Murray
and Hemnstein contend that intelligence plays a

cc ——

"What typeofenvironment
do children grow up in?
What about motivation?
Don’t these also affect how
successﬁtl people are? "

intelligence scores

inferiority as an excuse to rationalize slavery and segregation. If blacks were
dumb, then it made sense to civilize them through slavery. Now, Murray and
Herrnstein are bringing up this dark sludge again. This is pseudoscience on the
same level as eugenics in the early 20th century.

When I first heard of Murray’s ideas, I dismissed them. When I mulled over
them for some time, I still dismissed them. It just doesn’t make sense to me.

Maybe I do have a low IQ or maybe Murray is wrong. I’ve known plenty of people i

with high IQ’s who don’t succeed. Some of them happen to attend W&L. What
determines how far one goes is education-—not just intelligence. Who would
have thought that Albert Einstein would become a Noble Prize winning pysicist.
Not his teachers. He made D’s and F’s when he was in school. Today, people laud
him as a genius.

What type of environment do children grow up in? What about motivation?
Don’t these also affect how successful people are? There are other types of
intelligence such as common sense, or practical intelligence. Common sense can
hurt "a person’s chances of success just as much as IQ——maybe even more.
Certainly, IQ does play a role. IQ does determine success and failure. The
question is: Does it play as large a role as Murray and
Hemnstein contend? No. There are too many other
things that impact one’s success. Even if one makes it
to college, there is no guarantee that he will gradu-
ate—whether he has a high IQ or not. To say that IQ
plays so large a role in determining life chances is
making a mockery out of common sense. They are
saying that ifyou have a low IQ, you will end up in the
underclass. Nature is ﬁxed. Welfare, remedial educa-
tion for underprivileged children, and affirmative
action should be abolished because they will do little
to improve the life chances of poor people. He is
telling black children that they are on average less

much larger role than either environment or socio-
economic status. High IQs mate with other high
IQs, producing children with high IQs. That would
make sense. I would prefer to mate with an intelligent woman as opposed to a
really dumb bimbo. However, their other arguements lose credibility. What they
are essentially saying is this: Poor people are poor because they are stupid.

Unfortunately, our dear Mr. Murray and Mr. Herrnstein do not stop there.
They also believe that black people are stupid, too. According to them, blacks
score 15 points lower on IQ tests than whites. Recent research has indeed
established this 15 point difference as fact. How much genes account for this
difference is still debatable. They qualify this racial difference by saying that 10
percent of the black population are smarter than 50 percent of the white
population. Still, their main point is that black people are intellectually inferior
to whites.

For some strange reason, sweet thoughts of Hitler enter my head. He thought
blacks and Jews were dumb. What did Hitler do? Well, he decided to eliminate
six million Jews, gypsics and homosexuals. In America, racists used black

intelligent than whites. What is to stop them from
saying, ‘‘I’m dumb.Why should I try?”

Our wonderful authors argue that their findings
should not put too much of a chill in peoples’ hearts. “lnstcad, we are saying a
good word for a certain kind ofethnocentrism. Given a chance, each clan will add
up its accomplishments using its own weighting system, will encounter the world
with confidence in its own worth and, most importantly, will be unconcerned
about its accomplishments line-by-line with those ofany other clan. This is wise
ethnocentrism.” I see. Blacks should not be concerned that they are intellectually
inferior. Whites should not assume that every black they meet has a lower IQ than
them. It would be nice to believe that these pseudoscientiﬁc findings will not
affect blacks or whites. Unfortunately, history teaches us differently. Murray and
Herrnstein boast ofthcir courage in talking about this taboo subject. They cover
themselves in statistics, graphs, and doubletalk. They attempt to cast themselves
as saddened but hardened men only seeking to tell the truth. Therc’s only one
problem: Murray and Herrnstein wouldn’t know the truth. Maybe their IQ’s are
too low to recognize it.

I

 

5.

1

J DREAM LAND
' Richard Weaver

I feel it’s my duty to provide a
Halloween News Capsule to the W&L
‘ community. We’ve been too careless
in our priorities by focusing on all of
, that. work we all did during the Fall
Reading Days. I thinkit’s not toolate to
get informed and ready for a weekend
of dressing up and acting like idiots.
X Not that a Halloween in Lexington
is all fun and games— there’s also that
elementofdanger.Accordingtoapage-
one story in this week’s Lexington
News-Gazette, and this is an exact
( quote: “Zelda the Witch remains at
large.” When I read this, I thought
about calling the Lexington P.D. and
suggesting they look in Gaines Hall.
However, the story actually relates
to several dummies and pumpkins sto-
‘- len from homes in Rockbridge County
presumably by some members of the
population who couldn’t afford their
own tacky decorations and vegetables.
The guys over at Frank’s Pizza
¢_ avoided the whole possibility of theft
by getting themselves a pumpkin two
feet tall and three feet wide and placing
it in their lobby. You can imagine that
this pumpkin does NOT like to be
moved, or even be looked at funny.
‘~ Using my famed interrogation tech-
niques, I got the manager of Frank’s to
tell me they got the thing at Swisher

The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1994

Farms. I’d like to think that some radia-

_ tion leaked from the science building

seeped into the soil. This would ex-
plain why the Frank’s pumpkin has a
small leg sticking out of its side. Just
kidding.

‘ TheFrank’smanagersaidthepump-
kin had been installed at the restaurant
at the end of September.

Maybe you could use it to reserve a
parking space in the Corral.

Now, if you’ve got a few spare
hours on your hands, you can follow
the time-honored tradition ofselecting
a nice—sized pumpkin from your local
grocery store, taking it home, sticking
a knife in it, taking out all the gunk,
getting it all over yourself, throwing it

   

“It does at yoursister,
not smell, getting dizzy
yet,” he from the
addedtoour Pumpkin
conversation. gunk Smclla

But the throwing all
F r a n k ’ 5 the stuff
pumpkin away, and
does not mea- I011Ving I0
sure up tothe WIIICI1 TV.
one deployed Tl']21l’S Wllill
at Harb’5_ ’ WC  in my
The “bistro house; ex-
pumpkin” is cept, I didn’t
three feet tall v IVIVC 8 SISICF,
also, and ac- The Frank’s pumpkin: mutant creature so we just
cordingtothc or tasty vegetable? threw the

stuff at the

m a n a g e r ,
“pretty big” . .
width-wise. It hails from Fairfield.

Both the Frank’s and Harb’s pump-
kins don’t have plans for after Hallow-
een.

“Do you want it?” the Frank’s man-
ager asked me.

Notthata mutant pumpkinwouldn’t
be useful. Hollowed out, I think itwould
make a wonderful punch container. Or
it could be your dirty-clothes hamper.

neighbors.

The onetradition you shouldn’tfor—
get is, ofcourse, dressing up and acting
like an idiot. You may say to me, “Hey,
Richard, ljust don’t have time to think
of a costume —~ I’m just too busy
studying for the GRE/LSAT/MCAT/
SAT/Diesel Engine Repair Test
(choose one).” And then I would say,
“What’s preparing for a good career
compared to a good time wearing plas-

OPINION

PAGE 7

Bone up on Halloween tradition

tie and sequins?” That’s also what I
tell my parents.

It so happens that some of the best
costumes are those that you can make
at home, or get out of your parents’
closet. For those of you with neither
homesvnor parents, here’s my list of
suggestions:

1) Drop by your local thrift shop
and pick up a pair of size 49 wide
overalls. Take them home and put
them on,thenstuffyourselfwith news-
papers (I suggest The Rockbridge
Weekly), and “voila,” you are fat for
Halloween! This is assuming you are
not already size 49 wide before you
get dressed.

2) Nothing could be better than the
tried-and-true deranged Stop-ln con-
venience store worker. You can dis-
pe nse chili from your pockets to your
party guests.

3) Letitia Pate Evans.

Halloween is also a unique time
for the Speaking Tradition. Instead of
saying “hello” to passersby, it is ac-
ceptable to say “Boo.” You can also
wear all the clothes that have been
gathering underneath your bed. When
people ask you about the Cobwebs,
just tell them, “Hey, l’mjust trying to
spread a little Halloween cheer; what’s
your problem?”

And one last thing — you might
want to drop by Kelly’s Corner soon.
lhcard a rumorthey’re having a Betsy
Green pumpkin as retribution.

Boo.

!.
TALKBACK
, Interviews and Photos
By Hans Yao
1
Wh ' ' ‘7
at did you do over Reading Days .

K

4.

r.

Chris Graham ’98, Wan-enton, VA . “[ Alexis Walker ’95, Ft. Lauderdale, FL - “I Julian Montague ’96, Wilton, CT - ‘‘I went
4 went home and visited my folks.” stayed here and caught up on my Tolstoy.” to Cape Hatteras, NC and windsurfed.”

Fear and loathing in southwest Virginia

THE FAR MIDDLE

Alex Christensen

This is a new column. It will not be based on the
conservative world view and it will not be based on
the liberal world view. It will be based on what I think.
.’My name is Alex Christensen. I carry a badge.

People often ask mewhether I am a Democrat or
a Republican. This makes sense, since I am a dues-
paying member of both the College Republicans and
the College Democrats. Ronald Reagan and Bill
Clinton spring to mind when you ask me who were the
best presidents of the last thirty-five years.

So I have tried to come up with a few descriptive
labels to quickly identify my politics to people.
~‘.‘Goldwater Democrat” is one, “Militant Moderate——
«I don’t agree with liberals or conservatives, but I am

convinced I’m right” is anoth"er;..But‘1he-’nam‘e of the '

column, “The Far Middle,” seems to-~ be the most
understandable to people. One word of caution. What
you read here may not always be accurate, but it’s all
true. And so:

Today’s episode: On the Trail with Pat
Buchanan.

The great thing about Virginia, just like when I
used to live in Idaho, is that the politics is so acces-
sible. I’ve been to local Republican and Democratic
events all over Rockbridge County and I’ve only been
here for a few weeks. Picnics, strategy and organiza-
tional meetings, parties, rallies——it’s amazing.

Two weekends ago I went to what I thought would
be a quaint local Virginia event called a “pig-pickin’”
(on the engraved invitations) which doubled as a
fund-raiser for local Congressman Bob Goodlatte,
‘77L. Congressman Goodlatte is running unopposed,
so I wasn’t quite sure why he needed to have a fund-
raiser, but hey, if you can’t trust your congressman,
who can you trust? But what really reeled me and my
fifteen bucks in was the barbecue—and the fact that
Pat Buchanan would be the headline attraction.

I rode up to the event with some good Rockbridge
County Republicans. We parked the car, got out, paid
our cash, and then basically stood around waiting
for Buchanan to show.

After about a half of an hour schmoozing in the
searing wind, a big white monster truck with four-
foot tires and orange lightning bolts zipping down
the sides roared up. The Stars and Bars were ﬂying
proudly on the antenna. In the bed of the truck
was a bluegrass band playing “Shenandoah.”

The boys in the band played for about five more
minutes, then all but one slapped on their Ray-
Bans, checked theirsidearms, and scrambled down
out of the truckbed.

The last guy set outatree stump in front of the
main microphone and his voice bellowed out over
the loudspeaker, “Ladies and gentlemen, a true
warlord in the battle for the soul of America—
Patrick J. Buchanan of Chantilly, Virginia!”

The crowd went crazy, clapping, whistling and
stamping their feet with glee. The Bluegrass Boys
uncomfortably but professionally scanned the
crowd for signs of danger. A couple of them were

‘eyeing the, probabilybecausevl was eyeing them, so.

I quickly turned with the rest of the audience and
stared in rapt attention at the ﬁgure stepping up
onto the stump.

At first I wasn’t even sure it was Buchanan. He
was sort of stooped over and was wearing a black
velvet cape. He opened his mouth to speak, and I
was momentarily bafﬂed. Apparently he was wear-
ing some of those cheap novelty-store vampire
teeth and he was cackling maniacally.

“Thish ish how we shcare those liberals!” he
yelled. “Nashty, nashty liberals!” He mugged and
vamped and the crowd went wild.“That’s right,
he’s got it, they oughta be scared,” said a man
in the crowd. “They oughta be scared, all right.” He
spit on the ground and laughed.

Buchanan stopped and smiled, then winked,
threw offthe cape and took the sopping teeth out of
his mouth. A couple ofthe Boys rushed up to catch
it all and one of them took the teeth and secreted
them in an inside pocket. Buchanan straightened
up and laughed, his eyes crinkling in that inimi-
table way familiarto viewers of CNN’s “Crossﬁre”
across the nation.

“That was just a Halloween costume, ladies and
gentlemen, but let me tell you, when Slick Willie
and Teddy Kennedy show up, they’re not wearing

      

Read The Ring—tum Phi. We’Ve heard that reading
other campus publications causes itchy rashes.

fright wigs and grease paint! lt’s the real thing,
ladies and gentlemen! That’s when you should be
scared, that’s when you should really hide your
wallets and bolt the windows, let me tell you! Oh,
it’s all true, folks! Be very afraid!”

The pundit paused, and an air of silence settled
in. He seized his moment. “And folks, that’s why
me and God are asking you to put Bob Goodlatte
and Ollie North up in Washington—to tell it like it
is!”

Tears were streaming down most of the faces in
the crowd now, and their eyes were gleaming with
pride.

They knew this Pat Buchanan, and he was their
good friend.

After the speech, Buchanan circulated among
the common folks, shaking hands and blowing
kisses. I got as close as I could, hoping to get Pat to
sign a “Buchanan. America First!” bumper sticker

. with a Confederateflag background and an j_‘,O_llie
 N'orth‘”sti<':ker.' ‘ "  ‘ ' "  ' " '

r;\J

A young woman came up with a copy ofone of
his books, and, enraptured, asked him to sign it. As
he obliged her, she said, “Mr. Buchanan, this book
not only made me a conservative, it also influenced
me to convert to Catholicism.”

“Well, that’s wonderful,” said Buchanan, crin-
kling. One ofthe Boys nudged her in the ribs from
behind, and as the space in front ofhim opened up,
I made my move.

“Mr. Buchanan, could you sign these please?”
I said, proffering my bumper stickers.

To the editor:
I was disappointed that Betsy Green’s detailed report on Kelly’s Comer bypassed

GENERAL

fu; her detail_s,w.r1_ ‘
.P.O‘ Box 681‘,lLexington

.I:“t°i'n51,‘iPS ’

A A Therewill be an internshipiwork-1 i
‘ shop "on Wednesday, November .2, 

iLETTERSi

Report on Kelly’s Corner
incomplete

“Sure. Hey, where’d you find this?” he said, the human dimension. Forexample, much was said aboutthelackoffemirtine hygine
indicating the “America First!” sticker. ‘‘I haven’t products on the shelf(?). But had she chosen instead to chat with the owners, she

seen one of these in years!”

would have had the pleasure of meeting two warm, intelligent and articulate

It was obviously not a question to be answered, individuals, who left high-paying urban jobs to be closer to nature; and perhaps would
so while he signed, I said, “Are you really for have met their daughters, the elder of whom is named Kelly.

Ollie?”

Without the personal dimension, the report seemed to me a tad haughty and

He leaned in, barbecue thick on his breath, and sarcastic, somewhat insensitive to the people who inhabit the area outside of the
whispered gruffly, “Of course not. That chick- mental and physical perimiter of W&L.

ens—t squealed on the White House. If l’da done
that kind of thing to Nixon, I’d be keeping Hoffa
company. But Virginia needs a senator, and we
need a majority. So let’s let bygones be bygones,
huh?”
Yessir, now that’s old-time politics.

Greta McCaughrin

I regret that Greta McCaug/11in misunderstood my tone in my column last

week about Kelly ’s Corner. I certainly did not intend to come off as “haughty and

 

 

sarcastic ”. I have, in fact, talked to the owners of Kelly '5 Corner. I certainly hope
that they do not take my sense of humor to be insulting.

Ashley Amini ’97,S=m Ant0nio,TX -“I went Kristoffer Harrison ’98 Philadelphia PA-
to Dallas, TX to visit some of my friends.” ’ ,

‘‘I stayed here and had Nerfwars with friends.”

 

 

PAGE 8

W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1994

 €XPlOY'€S ;.SS\A€$ OF racial PO'..Lt'LC$., g€V\A»€\" ORA. C1055

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Staff VVriter

Over two,years ago we watched as Los
Angeles burned with the fires of racial strife
and economic turmoil. ~

The vicious beatings of Rodney King and
Reginald Denny haunted our memories.

Looting, angry faces, smashed windows,
and cries of“Nojustice, no peace!” pummeled
our psyche.

Some condemned it as a riot consisting of
common thugs looting stores and beating inno-
cent victims.

Others regarded it as an uprising and a
desperate protest against racial and economic
injustice.

Two years ago the wounds of L.A. have still
not healed.

Bebe Moore Campbell explores complex
issues of racial politics, gender, and class amid
this background in her new book, Brothers and
Sisters.

The story centers around Esther Jackson, a
regionaloperations manageratAngelCity Bank.

She wants to move into lending because she
believes her M.B.A will be of better use.

She slowly develops a friendship with
Mallory Post, a lender.

Campbell smoothly reveals the built up

W;-i’?7¢5E&POA’5

79 s. mm./24 5;.

463-2742

racial tensions within the relationship.

When Esther finally bursts forth her South
Side anger, the relationship strengthens as they
struggle to understand each other.

When Preston Miller, the CEO of the bank,
hires Humphrey Boone as senior vice presi-
dent, Esther and Mallory’s friendship is tested.

Esther feels pride that a black man has been
promoted to such a high position.

She believes she might have a better shot at
beeominga lender ifsomebody black was in the
upper echelons.

“For the first time since she’d come to

, Angel City, she felt that someone who might be
a friend to her was in control. ‘

”And sitting in the chairas Humphrey walked
to the front ofthe room, she felt proud, the kind
of pride she experienced when the black Olym-
pians brought home the gold, when Jesse Jack-
son ran for President, whenever somebody won
on J copart/_v.”

Unfortunately, not everybody is happy with
the new appointment,

Kirk Madison had been in line for Boone’s
position when he \vas Inade temporary regional
branch manager.

He had even suggested the Minority Loan
Program that Boone now has authority over.
Now all his dreams are shot.

He must face the wife who supported him

after he flunked out of medical school.

His marriage falls apart while bill collectors
nag him endlessly.

His gloom turns into racial hatred when he

 

discovers he lost his job to a black man.

Affirmative action is what his mind screams.

He feels shafted.

“All they had wanted was for him to work
his ass off while they wooed somebody else,
who could get them some newspaper coverage.

After all his hard work, they were going to
hand over the job he deserved to some black
guy.”
llowever, Esther sees Boone as her brother
in this white corporate world and her only
chance to get into lending.

Boone’sattentionstowardMalloryturninto
sexual harassment.

She must choose between racial loyalty or
her friend.

Should she back her friend and lose the
highest level black in the company?

Furthermore, she must face the embezzle-
ment of dormant accounts that cuts across ra-
cial lines.

Campbell crafts a realistic portrayal of ra-
cial tensions in the aftermath ofthe L.A. rebel-
lion.

She paints her characters with a human
dimension.

Whether you like them or not, you under-
stand them.

She gets into the heads and souls of her
characters to unearth their fears and ambitions,
their hates and passions.

Everyone from the damaged ego of Kirk
Madison to Hector. the Hispanic teller who
wants a piece of the American dream, to

Lakeesha, the single mom trying to
make a life for her son.

The reader knows them, under-
standsthem,empathizes withthem.

What is rather amazing is
Campbell’s ability to articulate the
frustrations and anger of all her
characters regardless ofrace, class,
or gender.

She shows Mallory ’s confusion
when Esther seems to take almost
every comment as a racial assault.

She shows Esther’s difficulty .

in decidingwhethertodateTyrone,
a mail clerk, or to wait for a suc-
cessful black man with two de-
grees, a job, a nice house, and a
Benz—someone like Humphrey
Boone.

Using these characters, she
shows how race isn’tjust black and
white.

The answers are not as clearcut
asholding handstogetherand sing-
ing “We shall overcome.”

The book will shake you with
laughterand choke you with anger.

Although the ending is a bit
contrived, the majority ofthe book
is compelling and entertaining.

In the end, Bro!/Iers a/iclSisIcrs
is a book that’s hard to put down
without wanting to pick it back up
again.

SEN 10 RS!

Don't miss out on your pictures——$ign up at the Coop for appointments Nov. 2 - Nov. 18;

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOIOOOOOOCOIOOOOOOIOOOOOOOOOOOOIOIOOOOIOOOOOIOOOOOOOQOOOOOOO

if
E
i
i

Kellys Corner

On Rt. 60 son St), 2.5 mlles west at Lexington

geeezéfcwt - 74wz¢., ,
715., 5423.. 2-4 cum. /
77la«dM W746

‘7aa%a££ Sﬁecéctfe - n
.5ﬂ.m. - 7 a,.m..' 20a
29.-W, $3.50 gmgew

“The tradition continues”
Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea.,
delicious BBQ sandwiches $1.39

7-Up, A&W root beer, RC, cream soda-

3 cans / $1.00
Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .039/gal.

    
  
   
   
 
 

    

Back & Beffterffh
Fried Chicken - O?
and Dinner. All your

.,$ttn,oreland’s Famous

g’Breakfast, Lunch
Fri.‘‘, Sat'., Nights, All
Day Sunday. Beer on p’  ring 8: Banquet Facilities.
Sororities & Fraternities W enu Available everyday

Rt. 11 South at Faney"‘HIll I-81 exit 180B
10% ()/fw/zen vou meizrimz this ad

 

Unleaded Plus - $1 .109/gal.
Miller Reserve Bottles - $10.99/case

_ //mredquanotres
Busch suits - $8.99
one weeko/W

40 lb. ice - $4.99

As Always, We Provide The Best
Service or The W&L Community

Mlles&San N e,P

'¢T1pt:omiag music at the.
ZL‘-taivtttt &~ aeotnnz
,Fri., Oct. 28 - Ruben‘ Rose W
‘J'liurs., Nov. 3 -.7WcIrl'cA(ten '
,Fri., Nov. 4 - Rufet Bros.
Sat, Nov. 5 - Faﬁufous Night C mwfers .

7/5427/aﬁce

H.AnowA‘ne sroaes "9

Valley

    

- rletors

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items Xﬁ mi (Xi
A sorority Witha
difference. For
information, call X4559

  
   
 
   
   
     

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1,-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

CAR FQR SALE

’91 Chrysler LeBarron
Convertible - V6 - power
windows - cruise - auto-

matic - P/S&P/B — 48000 m
- white/ grey interior.
$11,500 463-2151 ext 112 -
ASK FOR ALI

Sa1erno’s
Subs & Pizza Deli

Secials 
Monday Night FootbaI\-»  
Special! 5 - 10 p.m.

  

OTHER
PEOPLE’S
M0NE'I’

 
    
    
      
    
     
 
  
     
 
 
  

E. ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' All-You-Can-Eat Spaghetti A hilarious story of greed,
I         with garlic bread '"St’ 3”’ °'°""'s! "
:      only $25o(eat in only) Oct. 28, 29, 31 at 8200

Oct. 30 at 2:00
Lenfest Center

' Wednesday!

Large Cheese Pizza
95
only (toppings extra)
800 North Main 

eio r s 

 
 

Reserve your ticket by
calling 463-8000 (FREE to
students, faculty & staff)

This is your
LAST
§CHANCE to

ﬁfirntnrnt
at washington G Lee

 
 

u-in uh -u--—-I....rw'ii'IIn‘u u“u'5"- -r .. -

 
 

   

 

_ rUNI—CARD.BOX 220645.HOLLYWO0D.FL 33022 _ '
: get your . ,   - ..
' - o 1: Now you Ian have the most recognized I . [want MASTERCARD’ lﬂm1€d|3l€|Y- |
I . v- ' '
S6n101‘ p1C ure credit card In the world even If-‘YOU ARE mzwm I 100% GUARANTEED! I
I
. cm-:orr or Have BEEN 1uaNI:D DOWN BEFORE! . I
I ' ~
MaIerCudO the ctedltcard you I I
I taken for th€ desen: and need ro.- lD—BOOKS-—DEPARTMEN'l' | NAME I _,
: S'l‘ORES-—‘l'U|Tl0N—-EN'l‘l:R1‘AlNM ENI‘— , .
- Calyx. W:.';.~.:t.'=.*.-°::*.:.:.*.2,':*='*-........'*"=s*... ¢..°"~m..._ -ADDRESS   -
: REPAIRS‘-AND 10 auiw roun cm-zorr RATING! I CITY STATE ._. ZIP :
5 NOV. 211d - Not...-.. aownsz : ’S’I'UDEN'I'I Yes No 35,: ' I
: NOV’ ]‘ 8  _“§t:;g°,‘§‘: N0 security deposit! ' room M-neon-u In I registered Indcnnllt d uaaeuouu Imcmanomt Inc. :
I , \) '
- Sign up at the Co-op ° sv*° SEND"l'HE coupon TODAY
. I MAIL THIS N0 RISK coupon romv I
You CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING! ..-- _
:IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  V‘

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 28, 1994
“ . . SPORTS
THE NUMBERS GAME
‘ VOLLEYBALL 1
Kill Err Att. . Gordon Meeker
Hilary Martin 209 51 511 Bill Gill
Elizabeth Balm 123 48 331
Holly Thomsen 93 27 3 I 2
I Jennit'c1'Garrigus’ 82 48 276

Chad Dobbins
Rchecca Russell 56 27 I88

wee;
’.4)I\)\l\C.—.

Kevin Hocking

U: |~J -
-1‘-

GO.A\l-Kl-'.Et’ll\'(; SV Per
A. l\/lazzarelli -. 66 .742

BUY ONE GET ONE FREE [:OOTBALL Fernando Bravo 29 .879

BUY ONE LOAF CRUSTY " ' Rostrum; YDs/G,\.\na

 i - i _ Slittl l\’lC‘l<Ii‘\'l.l{\' 61.8 Woi\n:i\=’s So<‘(‘|-:R
 _ ' - Matt Mogk 16.8 A TI’
Aaron Wilkinson 7.5 Erica Reineke I I 47

AND GET ONE  _ .l.P. .Ioseplison 5.5 l\‘Iichelle Bauman 34

I _ THICK Kait Barton 21
.  SLICED  .' I’,\ssi.NG Arr. COMP. YARDS /\nne Spruill . I6
‘  Brooks Fiselier I44 73 661 I l..cig:liton Kirby _ I I

I . Tommy Ruegcr I5 8 60 ' Sara Benson . 6

Jen Lynch T 1 I

Rr:<"i=:i\/ING YDS YPR
William Propst ‘ 37 406 11.0 Go,\L'i'i:t\'DiNG Sv PCT.
‘ Matt Mogk 8 32 6.4 Beth Mozena I I 36 .766
THICK SLICED - 16 OZ, PKG, _ Jonathan Gardner 99 9.0 Delia Coyle 9 86 .9()5

1
H21}/DC l“l0ClgCS l   - \K/‘\_'}‘Lj;; POLO
' . 0(2) A PPG
DEFENSE TACKLE5 SACKS Peter Sorenson 2 13(0) 14 2.7
Robert I-lull 71 5

James Silberstein 21(0) 2.6

NA Stu=1I'Itrrt<>:w0 65 0 Rich Cober 12(2) 2.0
- Travis Wisdom 49 0 Du-ck Devrics 5(0) 1_4
, Marc Newman 48 1 Frank Braden 9(0) . 1.2
7(m
. ,_ -“-9- , , x

Butler 83” 48 2 Reiilwen Mrmoor 4 1.1
2

Buy ONE 551' ONE FREE Tony Diederich 6(0) 0.8

  6 oz.  Bryan Drum 6(0) 0 (If)

‘ M . I’. S
  E“ S GCCEE ' GOALTENDII\’() GA Sv Pm‘.
  Jeb Wofford _ David Silvester 121 111 .439

AND GET ONE Bill Sigler Tom Donnelly 4 0 .000
Shag Drewry

IHCRIIIVAVII

POP cot K

SELECTED VARIETIES HT

BUY ONE GET ONE FREE GREAT VALUE

BUY ONE 14 OZ. PKG.  
SELECTED VARIETIES DI“ PEPSI

KATZ BAGELS

AND an ONE   
6 PK.
. 12 oz.
CANS

BUY ONE GET ONE FREE I BUY ONE GET ONE FREE

BUY ONE 1101. BAG S'l'AUFFER’S BUY ONE 10 OZ. BAG

ANIMAL SWEET ‘I6.
CRACKERS SUGAR DONUTS

AND GET ONE AND GET ONE

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
I SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

an't afford to save for retirement? Even if you're not counting the years to
EMRMSHWWRQWEBHWHWWWUVWWEAUJWOUT

The truth is, you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
REGULAR oR LITE 16 OZJAR BUY ONE SELECTED VARIETIES 20 oz. BUY ONE

Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve —

can last 20 to 50 years or more. You'll want with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
in com: 6“ ONE SIMPLY POTATOES an on:
cnmmm E RE E IN DAIRY CASE E RE E

to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-
PUFFED OR CRUNCHY 7oz. BAG BUY ONE 3,5 mm 100 cr, 3ox£D BUY ONE

do now. And that takes planning. ment choices, and a record of personal
W” ‘Hm! EIIEE '" ‘’°'"‘ 15

you'll have to budget $203 each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on
to reach the sameigoal. your side.

By starting to save now, you can take service that spans 75 years.

advantage of tax-deferral and give your Over 1.5 million people in education and

money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CREF at the top of

Consider this: set aside just $100 each their list for retirement planning. Why not

Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.
SELECTED VARIETIES 16 oz. PKG. BUY ONE 46 oz. JAR BUY ONE . . E _ th fu
GET ONE GET ONE nsurmg ° tut“ .

RHIIEEEIRUITF Elli-EEIVE  forum Whoshapm
SOI \ z

month beginning at age 30 and you can join them?
*/I.v,m/III‘/13; ll" iulm‘.-I mlr If//)"1r 4‘/'r4‘r'Iv4l In TI. I.l Rrlirwlmrl .-lmruillm. Tlzin mix 11- u.v(rl.m/I/v I:r.rbm4' Ebt’/71'|t'(I‘llII(’lf”}I'I «film umuIin_4. Igrwrr or biqbrr mint mun/tl
Prices echve roug av. , 994

accumulate over $138,2o9* by the time Call today and learn how simple it is
/rnulrmr «w'_v 172'/I/it/ml mum/I.:. ('RI'.'l"t'rrl1'/l'mlr.r are (li.vlri/mlrrl /ry 7‘lI.‘L‘E-(‘REF /II('i-'I'4'It:I/ um’ /u.rlt'Iun'tI : Srnaiw.
Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesclo , October 26 Throu h November I, 1994 In our Lexington store

you reach age 65. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limi Quantities. None Sod To Dealers. We Glcndly Accept Federo|Tood Stamps.

9 I994 Ttlltblfd lnaur-ant: an) Annuity Adaatialion/Co//cg: Rdirtmtnt Equiliza Funa

,<

 

Last Week:

CC- (M)- 9th of 26 at Gettysburg Invitational
(W)- 4th of 21 at Gettysburg Invitational '
Soccnn (W)- lost to N.Dame (MD) 7-0; def. Gull. 6-0
(M)-def Lynchburg 2-1; lost to Va. Wes. 4-0
Vo'.u~:YnAu.- def. Hollins 3-0; def. Guilford 3-0
Fo0TBALL- defeated Sewanee 28-17

PAGE 1G

    

WOI‘lih"'ll3?

THE LAST WORD
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

 

 

Onceagainwediscover
just how little sense lies
behind the operation of
major league baseball.

in a season marred by
the worst strike in major
league history,andinayear
where every team seems
to be losing money, the
owners, in theirinfinitc
wisdom, are talking about
expansion. , ” i

I donit know what drug
these guys are on, but pl
wish they would .get 
straightened out. i ‘

In a sport where,’-the’
owners complained» all
summer about lack of ti-
nances, where has the
money suddenly come
from‘ to ﬁeld two new .
teams. I guess times sure
got good in a hurry.-A.

The most noticeable.ef-

feet of two new expanst0I1 
teams will be on theﬁcld 
of play, however. i I
Last year Tony Gwynn 
was hitting .394‘ when the
strike hit. Matt,Williams‘f
waswell on pace" toshatter .
the National League home’ -
run record and still had a
good shot at the magical
Maris mark. 
If tl1¢;Lleagu' expand
once-more,’ pitch W11
become even ‘ ‘rr ore:
joke than it is now. ‘

      

      
  

Talent in baseball goes

   
     

was the‘ besit'jpit_ehe'r_in; i
baseball last‘season,?.wha
would Bondsdoi tofsome
secondstiarter on a'‘A_AA-_ ’
team in Colorado?’ '

if baseball expands '
again, that is just the kind
of matchup we’re going to. ,
be seeing,’  "  

Another expansion and
thinning of an already de-
pleted pitching pool'Iwill..-
bring offensive numbers;
like none since the days of
Hack,Wilson.  _

One commentator said V
tltatexpansionwouldbring -
the return of the_:_v_:..4_(r)rQrhi_t_-We .
ter. That ‘was ‘befo_r'e_[the.

last expansion. 

His words were/fproved_ .

    

get two‘ more teamsiwheii
they can’t even get the ones
the have to play?’." . _

I think that says a great
deal about the situation in
itself. How expansion
would affect the play in
the league 'doesn’t matter
if there is no one playing
the game to begin with.

Maybe sooner or later
the game will be back in
the ballparks instead of in
the backrooms, and the
debates can shift from ex-
pansion an money to home
runs and ERA. Until then,
let’s stick with the teams
we already have.

—-Editor’s note: Tory
andJason are notinthePlti
thisweek due to space con-
straints and will return to
the sports page next week.

S

@112 iﬂing-tum 3311?

PORTS

' This Week:

CC- State Championships at C. Newport (M&W)
Soccr-:3 (W)- ODAC Tournament

VOI.LEYBALL- vs. Hollins

WATER POLo- EWPA Divisional Playoffs

F00’1‘BAU..- at Bridgewater

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL

Football continues surge in Win over Sewanee . *

By SCo'rr BOOKWALTER
I’/ii Staff Writer

The Sewanee Tigers stormed into
Wilson Field on Saturday hungry for a
victory, but trotted back to Tennessee
after being outgunned by the Washing-
ton and Lee squad 28-l7.

The Generals raised their record to 2-
4 ovcrall with the nonconfcrcncc victory.
W&L also garnered its first win at Wil-
son Field in the final home game ofthe
season.

The W&L offense, after struggling
for the first part of the season, continued
its revival with Seth McKinley leading
the charge. The freshman running back
topped the 100-yard mark for the second
consecutive week with a total of 143
yards. His 38 rushes were the fourth
highest total in school history.

“Seth has really added punch to our
running game,” head coach Gary Fallon
said.

As ifthat wasn’t impressive enough.
McKinley gained a total of 54 yards on
his two kickoff returns. He continues to
head the Old Dominion Athletic Confer»-
cnce in kickoff returns with a 24.3 yard
average.

Unfortunately for Sewance, McKinley
wasn’t the only General creating havoc.
Qu;u'tcr‘back BrooksFischcrshrcddcdtlzc
Tigers defense with his finest outing of
the season, a 17 for 30 performance for
237 yards and three touchdowns.

“Brooks is progressing and spreading
the ball around.” Fallon commented.

Like McKinley and Fischer. senior
widcout William Propst enjoyed a ter-
rific aftcrnoon by reeling in nine passes
for a total of 136 yards. Fellow senior
Jake Kimballcomplemented him with 53

Propst hit paydirt twice during the
contest, the first being a 32 yard recep-
tion that kicked off the scoring midway
through the first quarter.

The Wilson Field scoreboard was busy
in the second quarter as W&L and

Scwance lit it up fora combined total of i

31 points. There hadn‘t been that much
scoring for the entire game in four ofthe
previous five W&L contests. _

McKinley led off the wild quarter
with a 2 yard plunge to hand the Gcncrals
their largest lead of the season at 14-0.
However, the Tigers quickly answcrcd
back. Scwanee’s Louis Caputo cut the
lead in half with a 58 yard TD reception,
and a Tigcrs field goal closed the gap to
14-10. .

W&L responded with a flurry of its
own. Fischer returned to the air, connect-
ing with Kimball on a 38 yard TD strike.
With less than a minute remaining in the
half, Propst reached the friendly confines
ofthe end zone again with a 13 yard grab,
boosting the Generals’ advantage to 28-
10.

Fallon attributed the Generals’ offen-

sive success to the decrease in turnovers

and the improving protection provided
by the offensive line.

"We’re not turning the ball over like
we did in earlier games,” said the head
coach. '

Whilethe offense racked up437 yards
oftotal offense for the corttcst (3l6 \.uiii'
ing in the first half), the W&L defense
continued to assert itself.

It never let the Tigers back into the
game in the second half, allowing only a
21 yard touchdown reception by
Scwanec’s Caputo.

Junior defensive end Rich Achcc led
W&L with seven tackles. Stuart Hogue
and McGuire Boyd each had six stops,
and defensive tackle Robert Hull added
two sacks.

October 28, 1994

 

File Fhoto

The Washington and Lee football team’s recent success is due in part to the outstanding play
of it: rlr‘-.f(>r1s(‘,Vvhi(?h has held opponents to an nvorrign of1G.7 points pm‘ game this .con_=m~

The Generals presently arcthirdinthe
Iczmue with a vicld of 16.7 oints er
a . P P

game.

“The defense consists of a bunch of

guys who want the hardest and most
difficult challenge." Fallon said.
Needing to hold the lead in the second
half “was a different kind of pressure for
them.”
The Generals will take to the road for

the final three games of the season, the
first test coming this week against the
Bridgcwatcr Eagles.

Despite entering the match winlcss at
()-7 overall and 0-3 in the ODAC,
Bridgewatcr has given the Generals fits
in recent years.

W&L broke a four game losing streak
to the Eagles last year with a 41-16 anni-
hilation.

yards on two catches.

File Photo

The W&L volleyball team nears the end of its best season in school history
with the upcoming Old Dominion Athletic Conference tournament which
will be played at Washington and Lee.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

“lfwe win this match it will
beanindicationofourimprove-
mentwithintheleague.”—hcad
coach Terri Dadio.

lfthc volleyball team's pct‘-
forrnanceThursday night is any
indication of how far thcy‘vc
come. the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference may be seeing
ilCl11ll1gC in the guard.

W&l. dcfcatcd defending
confcrcncc champion Guilford
(‘ollcgc 3——() (15-10. 15-~o.
15-44) in the Warner Ccntcr
in thc Gcncrals’ final match
before next weck’s OD/\(‘
Tourmrmcnt.

V The team now has an oppor-
tunity to be the sccond seed in
the tournament. which will be
ltostctl by \\’'t& l..

Tltc Ccncrals tlt\'—--- 7. 7- »2
ODAC) are assured of finish-
ing no worse than third for thc
regular season.

Dadio’s enthusiasm for her
team’s performance was evi-
dent afterwards.

“l’m very proud of them."
she said. “You set goals for
yourselves, and when you

Women roll in tourney Men’s

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Plti Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team
wrapped upthethird sccdinthis
weeks’ ODAC tournament by
beating Lynchburg 2-0 last
Wednesday.

Senior Marina Jackson
scored the first goal forthe Gen-
erals on her 21st birthday off :1
pass from fellow senior Kait
Barton.

l3arton’s assist gave her the
season and career assists
records. with nine and clcycn
rcspcctivcl_v. i

That goal proved to be all the
tcam needed, but freshman scor-
ing phcnom Erica Rcinckc
added an insurance goal lillt.‘ in
the game to cement the win.

Coach I Iuthorn was rclicx cd
tonotchthcwin.saying."ldidnit
think \vc playcd our best game
against Lynchburg. but we beat
them and that is a sign of 21 good
team.“

Last Saturday. the team met
the College of Notrc Dame in
Baltimore for their season li-
nalc and found out why the ("ol-
lcgc is a regional socccr power-
house. losing 7-0.

The Gcncrztls finished the

season at 9-4 overall with an im-
pressive 6-2 record in the ODAC,
which meant that they had the
chance to host Guilford in the
first round ofthe ODAC tourna-
ment on Tuesday.

Guilford had never beaten
W&l,. prior to Tucsday’s game,
andtheGeneralsmadesurethings
stayed that way. pounding the
visitors 6-0.

The Gencralsdominatcd play.
dcspitc managingonly a 1 -0 lead
at halftime. lcd again by Reincke.
Rcinckc tallied two more goals
and three assists in the game.
slrattcringthccarccrpointsrecord
with 47 in her inttugural season.

Alsoscoringinthcgamcwcrc
Jcn Lynch. Knit Barton, Leighton
Kirby. and Tarry Baker.
Rcinckcis record marked the 7th
time this season that she has cc-
mcntcd hcr name in thc W&l.
record books.

\\"hcn asked about all the re-
writinggoingoninthc chronicles
of \\’&l. sports achicvcmcnt.
Coacli llathorn rcplicd. “We
don't cvcrtalk about it. lt'sjust zr
partofwh;uwc'rc doing.Thcy‘rc
handling it real well. Wc’rc all
about tcam- \vc just happen to
have someone who’s brokcn a
record. Its not a focus of any-
thing wc do- it’sjust been a great
yeah

The victory over Guilford on
Tuesday advanced the Generals
to the semifinals game of the
ODACt0urnament today against
Va. Wesleyan, who beat the Gen-
erals’ 3-2 early in the season.

W& L looks to continue the
winning ways of the fall sports
squads this season as the Gener-
als prepare for Virginia
Wesleyan. The
close scorc irt thc prcvious con-
test also gives the team reason to
be optimistic. The game would
propel the Gcncrals :1 slcp close
to :1 conference title.

Both the pl;tycrs and (‘ouch

‘l lathorn sountlcd an upbeat notc
about their chances.

Barton noted. “I think we're
all looking tojust play our game.
It's tlmt rtc\‘t lcx cl \\L‘ know we
can pl.'r_\'. l know ;t bunch of the
.\cnior.\” pcrsonnlgo:rls;rrc ins: to
gct to S;rtti1‘ti:r\ 's g;tntc- just to
gct to thc liinals. Aftcr th:n \\ c can
concentrate on \\ inning it."

(‘ouch llathorn tlcclztrcd that
ltcl‘ outlook wzts "very positix c."
She went on to cite thc tcznnis
positive play in the first game.

s:rying. “We lost to them in thc’

regular season. but we should
l1‘d\'L‘l‘CZllCllll1Clll.\\'CtILll])l1t}'(.‘tl
them. Wcirc 21 better team [now];
titty ‘re a better team [now]. his
gonna be it great game.“

By ERIC SWENSEN
Phi Staff Writer

The hopes of the men’s soc-
cer team for an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference titlc ended
Tuesday with a.-l-0 loss to
Randolph-Macon in the
quarterfinals of the ODAC
postseason tournament.

The Gcncrals postcda-l-()\vin
over Marymount and an c.\‘citing
3-3 tie with Eastern Mcnonitc in
their final two rcgular season
games. leaving them with :1 7-6-
2 mark heading into their final
contest tliisTucsda_\‘ against \"ir—
ginia Military lnstitutc.

[leading into their final
quarterfinal matchup rrgzrinst
Randolph-Macon. hcatl r.‘o.1cl‘.
Rolf Pirarniun said that in ortlcr to
defeat the f;ryorcd Yclloxy .l;rck«
cts.whoarczrmongthctoptt-runs
in thc ODAC‘. his tcnrn would
“...lr.rvc to contain thcm offcn-
sivcly and generate something
offcnsi\“cly forourscl\'cs.“ \\ hich
they couldnt do in an curly Oc-
tober 3-0 loss.

Again on Tncsd:t_\'. cvcn with
what\V&Lspokcsm:tndcscribcd
as 21 "hard fought" game by thc
Generals. the offense. which had
been rcxutrnpttl since their first

The Generals lead the overall

series, 16-8, but havcn’t won at
Jopson Field since 1988.

Both teams will be in search their

first ODAC.‘ victory.

“it’s no secret that they enjoy

beating Washington and Lee,” said
Fallon. “They’re fighting not to be
last, too. They can’t be taken for

granted.”

achieve them, like beating
Guilford as wejust did, you have
to be proud. They did a tremen-
dousjob.” ’ T 1

Although the final game of
the match proved to be much
closerthan it first looked it would,
the way in which the Generals
won may be the best indicator of
thcirpotcntialforthctournamcnt.

Leading 11—6 with a two
game lcad, W&L faltcrcd and
allowed Guilford an S—0 run,
which put the Quakers a point
an uy from forcinga fourth game
in thc 1111llCl1.

That was when frcshman
Hillary ;\'lartin posted the big-
gcsr of her 14 kills. The home
crou -.| of 150 came to life as thc
momentum clearly swung back
to thc ticncrals.

\\’ith freshman Rcbccca
|{trs:~t-ll serving. W&l. ran off
fort: stmiglit points to take the
lt';tti.

They would winjust moments
latcr tti take sole possession of
.\'<*cotitl place in thc ODAC

“[Thc comeback] shows our
improvement and how wc’rc able
to believe in ourselves." Dadio
said. “Wc’rc a pretty competi-
tive group. A loss isn’t a loss
until the gamc’s over."

tourney ends ~

meeting with the Yellow Jack-
ets, was still unable to crack the
stingy Randolph-Macon defense,
andthedefenscagainhadtroublc
stopping the high-powered Yel-
low Jacket offense.

ln the game against Eastern
Mcnonitc, the underdog Gener-
als struck first. picking up a goal
when freshman midfielder
MichaelGermainsqucczedashot
under the Crossbar.

After a goal by Fzrstcrn
Mcnonitc. thc (‘rcncrals rc-
claimcd the lead on a header by
(‘had Dobbins offa Jcb \\’olTor‘tl
cross. l{Mll responded with an-
t=tl‘.cr goal to send the game to
oycrtimc tied at two.

The Gcncrztls fell behind al-
most immediately when scniot‘
.\l:l!t (‘hristcnscn was forced to
save 1l:_‘_0::l by knocking down :1
shot heading for :1 \\'ltit‘ open net
with his hand. resulting in his
t:_icctiort2tnd:rpcnaltyshot.which
was converted for 2: 3-2 l{.\ll?
lcutl.

liven though thc (iL‘ll(.‘l'tll.\‘
\\ crc down a man after thc cicc—
tion of Cliristcnscn. thc_v still

- mzrnagcd to rally andticthc game

on a Bill Gill goal in thc first
oycrtimc.

Assistrmt coach Tony ( ‘orbctt
was thrilled with the «minis per-

       Volleyball takes key conference match 1

Martin’s 14 kills led the
team. Junior Cheryl Taurassi
added to her career assist record
with 31, while senior Jennifer
“Goose” Garrigus posted a
tcam—high 16 digs.

Freshman Holly Thomsen
hadjust five kills. butitwas one
of those that ended a W&L—
dominated second game.

After running off the last
three points of the first game,
the Gcncrals opened the second
with an Swl start.

When play in the ODAC
Tournament begins next Friday
in the Warner Center. liastcrn
Mcnnonitc (9-4) ODAC) will
be thc top sccd.

F.ithcr\\’&l.orBridgmvatcr
(5-2 OD/\(‘, two games lcfl)
will have the two spot. Guilford
now falls into fourth place with
215---3 confcrcncc mark.

Dzrtlio. howcvcr. docs not
feel the Gcncrnls need the sec-
ond sccd to zrtlvrtncc in thc tour-
:r;nncrn.

ltcing Z|.\.\'lll'L‘Ll of it top three
sccd and being the host ought to
be the biggest factors.

“Our goal is to get to the
championship match." said
Dadio. “The fact that it’s here
will certainly help us."

formance, saying, “We showed a
lot of heart and character.”

AgainstMarymount,theteam
was carried by the virtuoso per-
formancc of tri-captain Jcb
Wofford, who tallied his first
career hat trick. scoring the first
three goals in the 4-0 victory.
leading a dominant performance
by the Generals on both offense
and defense.

Wol'ford‘s performance last
wcck.whcrc hctallicdthrcc goals
and an assist. earned him Athlete
of thc Wcck honors.

Athletes of
the week for
last week
were Jeb
Wofford
(men’s soc-
cer) team and
Cathy Gartin
(tennis).

1‘

 

