 

 

 

-4'.

N
K

  

 

gnu RN. eon»
ILLERS REVIEWED |a(jr()55c honor

Carrington claims slate

U112 ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

VOLUME 94, NO. 1

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

J

l Crank it up...

Publicity Photo

The Hoodoo Gurus will crank up their amps and jam at The Pavilion this Saturday. Their funky
‘I alternative rock sound can be heard on their new album, Crank. It is their sixth album, following
Stoneage Romeos, Mars Needs Guitars, Blow Your Cool, Magnum Cum Louder, and Kinky. The
Gurus” steely guitars and well laid beats give their music a great feel. The doors open at 8:30 PM.
and the show begins at 9:30 P.M. The free concert is sponsored by the Student Activities Board.

‘FOC welcomes class

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

With the largest freshmen
«class in recent years, the Fresh-
man Orientation Committee is
attempting to make the transition
from high school to college a
little less overwhelming.

I.‘ Dennis Manning, Dean of
Freshmen and Residence Life,
said he was impressed with this
year’s freshmen class and their
participation.

“I think we had very enthusi-
astic and spirited participation
and attendance in all of the pro-
grams,” he said.

Manning said there have been
_some minor changes in freshmen

Aorientation to make the adjust-

ment easier for freshmen.

He said a new program called

Mandatory Fun 101 consists of

ice breaking games that serve as

vehicles for freshmen to know
each other.

Dean of Students David
Howison and Executive Com-
mittee president Kevin Webb
served as facilitators for the pro-
gram on Saturday, September 3.

On Friday, September 2, there
was an overnight hiking trip spon-
sored by FOC and the Outing
Club.

Manning said that 106 fresh-
men applied but only 40 students
were chosen. Underclassmen
from the Outing Club and FOC
served as leaders.

He said juniors Meagan
Femstrum and Peter Wiessman
and Outing Club Director
Marshall Follo helped organize
the trip. Manning hopes to repeat
and expand the program, possi-
bly contracting with outside or-
ganizations such as Outward
Bound.

Another new activity is a com-

munity service project. He said
he had talked to a couple of fac-
ulty members who felt that it
would be a meaningful activity.

He said it served as a way to
introduce the W&L tradition of
community service and to bridge
the gap between the college and
the local community.

The Freshmen Field Day was
a success. Manning said juniors
Bryan Boland and Tom Fink set
up the volleyball nets and the
tug—of-war.

He said 75 percent of the fresh-
men class was present.

Manning said he was struck
by the level of commitment
upperclass students showed for
their school.

“At most schools the institu-
tion has to offer enticements to
get upperclassmen to help fresh-
men to move in and get ac-
quainted with the school,” said
Dean Manning. “I don’t know of

of1998

any more obvious affirmation of
love of alma mater than what I
witnessed on Saturday and
throughout orientation.

Senior Drew Hammond, com-
mittee co-chairman, said the ori-
entation went rather smoothly.
He said seniors Kris Fegenbush
and Sue Krawchuk did a good
job organizing the orientation.
He said the orientation helped
the freshmen adjust to their new
environment. He said this is the
best class he has seen in a long
time.

“This is the most diverse class
and the best class we’ve had aca-
demically,” he said.

Manning said the dorm coun-
selors and Building and Grounds
deserve much credit for a suc-
cessful freshmen orientation.

“Bill Radford, Bill Elswick,
Randolph Hare -— these people
are the unsung heroes of every-
thing we do programmatically.”

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

September 9, 1994

Heatley brings
$1 million suit
against W&L

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

Nathan Rick Heatley, former associate dean of
students and direct of career development and
placement, filed three new suits totaling $2.35
million in his ongoing battle with Washington and
Lee over his dismissal in 1993.

The largest suit is against W&L, for $1 million,
and Heatley alleges that he suffered
several breaches of contract and a
wrongful discharge in his termination.

“The defendant [Washington and
Lee] tenninated Mr. Heatley’s employ-
ment without just cause,” stated
the suit.

One of Heatley’s other suits names
as defendants‘ Gwen and John
Handelman. He alleges that the
Handelmans slandered him and ac-
cused him of unprofessional conduct
in the performance of his job duties.

The third suit names Beverly Lorig,
Tyler Lorig and Ruth Lewis. Heatley
claims that Beverly Lorig and Lewis
wrongfully accused Heatley of sexually harassing
them, and that as a result, Tyler Lorig threatened
the university withhis own resignation unless they
would terminate Heatley. A

These suits are all the progeny of an original suit
Heatley filed against Lyn Wheeler last winter
for sla-nder, which has not been acted upon
since January.

The suit against Washington and Lee is based
upon the precepts in the personnel handbook, fac-

 

Heatley

ulty handbook and student handbook. Heatley al-
leges that he was asked to resign without a proper
hearing and without being informed of the true
nature of the charges against him: that he had bee
sexually harassing Lorig and Lewis. ‘

“While the rumors of sexual harassment quickly
spread through the University and surrounding
community, Heatley was left voiceless, unem-
ployed, and wearing the ‘scarlet H’ of a sexual
harasser,” Heatley’s brief stated.

Washington and Lee’s arguments
include a motion for demurrer, whic
means that, though the facts may be as
the plaintiff states, they do not sup-
port the contention based upon them.
The university claims it does not have
to be held to the policies on sexual
harassment outlined in the student
handbook when dealing with a mem-
ber of the faculty.

Heatley’s rebuttal ofthis argument
included the clam that, because there
is no policy for sexual harassment in
the faculty or personnel handbooks,
the university must be bound to the
statement in the student handbook.

Ahearing regardingthe University’s motion for
demurrer will be held in Covington Septmeber 30;
an article in The News-Gazette was of the opinion
that the suit would be thrown out of court.

Rockbridge Circuit Court Jude George E. Honts
Ill, ’68L, has excused himself from the case.
His son, Joel Honts, is a Washington and
Lee sophomore.

‘ Judge Duncan Byrd, Jr. will hear arguments
in Covington.

Dean of Fun plans
for a thrilling year

By Ko-Mme CHANG
Phi Staff Writer

in mind.

Richardson assures that she is in
no way anti-Greek and has the
interests of all the students

graduate of Western New En-
gland College, where she was
president of her senior class. She
also has a masters degree from

Some of you may have no-
ticed a new office in the Univer-
sity Center displaying a message
board and the name, “Michelle
Richardson” on the door.

Or maybe you have seen her
on campus and thought she was a
new student. Already mistaken
for a member of the class of ’98
by the incoming freshmen,
blonde, blue-eyed Ms.
Richardson is not a student at all,
but rather the new student activi-
ties director at Washington and
Lee University.

Starting this year, the “Dean
of Fun” will be responsible for
“coordinating student activities
and helping students plan and
implement a comprehensive pro-
gram of social, cultural and rec-
reational activities here at W&L,”
according to Dean of Students
David Howison.

These responsibilities sound
remarkably similar to those
shared by the members of the
student activities board. In fact,
students might wonder why they
need yet another dean on this
campus to assist the students.

Richardson feels that the need
for her position may be due in
part to the dominance of the
Greek system over the social
scene at Washington and Lee
University. She believes that stu-
dents who are not in fraternities
or sororities may find this school,
well, less fun.

Dennis Manning, dean of
freshmen and residence life, says
that the few students who left last
year may have withdrawn from
the university because they

“found the social situation
dissatisfying.”

Richardson, therefore, is plan-
ning activities which will have a
more universal appeal for stu-
dents, activities which may in-
clude trips to Washington, D. C.
to see plays and a coffee house
where students can gather and
listen to student bands.

And, though she has a small
budget of her own to work with,
Richardson is working closely
with the student activities board,
the minority students association
and other student-run organiza-
tions. All in all, she stresses that
she is, “not here to step on any
toes.”

The new Dean of Fun is a

Springﬁeld College.

With counseling experience
and a new perspective to offer
the school, Richardson feels she
is very suited to organizing stu-
dent activities at W&L.
Richardson encourages students
to approach her with any ques-
tions or helpful ideas they
may have.

    

Pto by Betsy en for T

Michelle Richardson, the new Student Activities
Coordinator, is looking forward to this year.

0

1 Ring- P i

 

 

THE BLUE RIDGE
AND BEYOND

The World

Cubans riot at U.S. base

Cubans being held in tent camps at Guantanamo Bay are angry at being
kept in the Naval Base and the condition of the camps. A rock-throwing
incident involving 650 refugees injured two U.S. soldiers Tuesday. US.
military ofﬁcials immediately brought running water and showers to the
refugee camps to appease the prisoners.

U.S. has possible leads about Vietnam

POW special cases

The U.S. has ,possibly made a breakthrough in solving American
missing in action cases from the Vietnam War. Search teams may have
found the remains of the ﬂrst of 84 special remains cases, where POW’s
died in captivity and others buried their remains. Though the identiﬁcation
is tentative, officials are encouraged at the possibility of solving the first of
the special remains cases.

The Nation

Air Force disciplines pilots in

shooting of helicopters

The U.S. Air Force has charged the pilot of an F-15 involved in the
shooting down of two U.S. Army Black Hawk helicopters with negligent
homicide and dereliction of duty. The incident killed 26 people. Five
members of the AWACS radar plane that oversaw the action are also
charged with dereliction of duty.

O.J. surrenders kids to Nicole’s
parents andAl Cowlings’s grand jury
jails a witness for failing to testify

OJ. Simpson agreed last month to give cU.S.tody of his two small
children to the parents of his slain ex-wife. According to recently released
documents, if Simpson is acquitted of her killing he can attempt to regain
custody. Trial for Simpson, who is pleading innocent in the murders of
Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, is set for September 26. A
man was jailed Wednesday for refusing to testify before a grand jury
investigating Al Cowlings who drove the Bronco during Simpson’s June
police chase. The man, John Dunton, says he will be killed if he testifies.

Federal charges against cross country

murder suspects

Federal authorities have dropped charges against two sU.S.pects in a
cross-country murder spree. An ex-convict and his 16-year-old companion

 

    

3:1 =«

‘Q “t

fatal

still face charges in at least two states, including first-degree murder in ,

Oklahoma and burglary and kidnapping in Ohio.

NASA prepares for launch today

Preparations for Friday’s launch of space shuttle Discovery are going
well, NASA said. Liftoff is scheduled for 4:30 p.m. During the mission,
scientists will conduct a laser experiment that will hopefully allow them to
better understand climate.

The State

Quarter of VA college students need

remedial work

One-quarter of Virginia college freshmen required remedial work in
math, English or reading last year, according to the State Committee of
Higher Education. The remedial work is costing the state around $25
million a year. Students who attended a public high school required .3
percent more remedial work than those who attended private school.

Robb offers to steal food from widows
and orphans

Opponents of U.S. Senator Charles Robb are pleased with a recent
remark the democratic incumbent made about tax increases. Robb said, “I
would take food out of the mouths of widows and orphans if I had to,” to
solve the problem of the rising federal debt. Political analysts say the
remark was a mistake, though Robb maintains he was trying to show where
he would get the funding for the debt, something he says his opponents have
yet to do.

The Campus

PiKa’s lose two Rush baimers

Two banners for Pi Kappa Alpha’s Rush have disappeared from party
locations according to PiKa President Allen Galespie. One of the banners
was taken down before a party at “Munster,” a student home. After the
party, it was discovered that the homemade banner was gone. The other
banner was removed from outside a third ﬂoor window in the PiKa House.
The banner had been tied to the radiator inside the house. Galespie thinks
it was fraternity rivalry or someone who got really drunk and “thought it
would be funny.” He said tit was not a big deal because they were
homemade banners, not high-quality manufactered ones.

Sigma Nu gets a Rush violation

Sigma Nu was placed on a week of social probabation and ﬁned $1500
for a Rush violation.Sigma Nu was punished for violating the rule requiring
three different fratemitites be present during the casual contact parties.
Sigma Nu President Steve Inman said the violation was “more or less a
misunderstanding,” and that they “didn’t violate the spirit of Rush.” The
violation occurred when one of the members of another fraternity left for
a brief time to get some food. The probabtion ends this coming Tuesday.

Students allege pepper gas attack by
Lexington Police

On Saturday, September 3, students said that the Lexington Police
Department sprayed pepper gas on a crowd gathered at “Aqua Velva,” a
student home, near the intersection of Randolph and Henry streets. Accord-
ing to one student the crowds were sprayed with pepper gas twice, until they
were finally dispersed around midnight. Chief Bruce Beard of the Lexing-
ton Police Department denied all knowledge of the incident. ‘‘I have not
heard anything about pepper gas being used by my officers. If they had, a
report would have been filed,” said Chief Beard. He also said that pepper
gas is not their nonnal method of student dispersal. “I saw the cops holding
something and next thing I know is that everyone starts coughing,” said
sophomore Deborah Zollmann.According to Mike Young, director of
Washington and Lee Security, the Lexington Police ofﬁcers thought that
pepper gas was sprayed by students. He also commented that they were not
even sure if any pepper gas was sprayed into the crowds.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily
Baker with contributions from Yabiz Sedghi and
Ethan Krupp.

“L through Z?”

Photo by Chris Leiphart for The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University upperclass students wait _in line to matriculate for ‘the new year. Fortunately, the
weather was nice and the people working the tables were friendly. Freshman also atriculated on Wednesday, meeting
Dean of Freshman and Residence Life Dennis Manning in the process.

re

Only 37 percent of class of 1994

still unemployed says CD&P

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

The class of 1994 is enjoying a
healthier job market, according to
the Career Development and Place-
ment Office. More students of last
year’s graduating class have moved
onto jobs or graduate programs than
the previous class had by this point.

The CDPO issues surveys to each
graduating class every few months,
beginning when seniors pick up their
cap and gown at the end of May. As
of the end of August, the CDPO has
had an 85% response to the
first survey.

Of the responding students, so far
23 percent have gone onto graduate
or professional schools. Another 39
percent have jobs or internships that
might lead to permanent positions.

This combined percentage of 62
is an improvement over that of the
class of ’93, which at graduation had
only 40 percent ofthe class employed
or enrolled in grad school.
Thirty-seven percent of the class
of ’94 reported they were still

seeking employment.

Beverly Lorig of the CDPO cautioned
that these are only preliminary figures,
and will probably increase with each
new survey.

“Many seniors don’t start their job
search until after graduation...Many take
the summer off and begin the job search
early in September,” said Lorig.

Internships are becoming increasingly
effective beginnings for careers, accord-
ing to Lorig.

“Intemships may be a good way to get
a foot in the door [at companies],” she
said. “They offer a chance to prove your
skills and abilities to employers.”

Survey responses have shown that ’94
grads are having luck with small to me-
dium size companies. Eighteen new com-
panies, many of them small, recruited at
W&L this past year.

“Students are finding desirable posi-
tions at these smaller companies,”
said Lorig.

She noted a definite improvement in
the job market.

“lt’s looking better,”she said. “We’re
not totally recovered from the recession
of the ’80’s, but this is an indication
of recovery.”

   
   

Seeking Employment

1994

loyed

Employed
or Graduate

Seeking Employment School

1993

 

Graduate School

Graph by Phil Carrott for

The class of 1994 is fairing much better than the class of
1993 in the job market and at graduate school.

t<.eee track ec everyI'.I~i.v\gtl~aI:
gees an in anal arouvxal 
/\X} anal 1.: community . . .
  Suloscviloe teuee ‘Dad
qtls easy - just eevxal. us $30
anal we’u sevxol ycu e paper every
weeie. eJ..et an evil’. the coupon
Ieetew anal sevxal it he

‘7t.e Qing-Iiunx ‘FDA; ‘l1>.<3. Box 899.
Leeezueten, MCI 24450

r------------------------------1

yes. 9 want It: sulascrlloe

I
I
I
I
I
I
L

’Y\
§
‘I3ke»\e ’\/\.~

12:211jj1ZZZZTZZTjZZT:fZZZ1Z1:J

6VV\y¢

elalv

 

.21.

>-

 

“Grunge-free

-show,” said guitarist Brad

by MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Features Editor

The Hoodoo Gurus are com-
ing to Washington and Lee’s
pavilion this Saturday.

This Australian group in-
cludes Dave Faulkner, brad
Shepherd, Rick Grossman and
Mark Kingsmill. The band
recently released their sixth
album, Crank.

Aself-proclaimed “grunge-
free” album, Crank is a mix of
steely guitars, locomotive
rhythms and throaty vocals in
13 songs—the most ever on a
Hoodoo Gurus’ domestic re-
lease. Crank also includes
guest performances by former
Bangle Vicki Peterson and Red
Cross singer Steve McDonald.

Songs from Crank to listen
for on Saturday night include
“The Right Time” and “The
Mountain.”

“Sound-wise this record
(Crank) is probably the most
representative of our live

Shepherd. “There’s always

been a big difference between our records and
the way we sound live, to the point where it’s
almost like two separate entities. When we get
on the stage we create an extra energy that gets
lost in the studio.” '

The band’s recent single “The Right Time”
is a distilled rock opera about a female bike

Sol Wachtler’s defense attorney Charles Stillman faces the press.

. 1994

‘..'

 

gang and a cult leader.

 

was the U.S. attorney who prosectued Wachtler.

 

‘‘I find the rock opera phenomenon of the
late 70s to be a bit laughable, so I thought l’d do
atakeoff on it,” said lead vocalist Dave Faulkner.

“Open My Eyes” is a homage to puppy-love
pop, a la the Partridge family. Composed by
Shepherd, the tune features vocals by Vicki

Time.”

Photo cousy of Pocket Books

Wachtler’s double life revealed

Linda Wolfe's book probes scandal surrounding former W&L student

by MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Features Editor

Linda W0lfe’s “Double Life” is the
real-life story of the shattering affair
between New York Chief Judge Sol
Wachtler and socialite Joy Silverman.

Wolfe exposes the two’s long—last—
ing affair and Wachtler’s criminal be-
havior that lead to his harassment of
Silverman.

While this book reads largely like a
  insert, it is of inter-
est to Washington and Lee students
because Sol Wachtler attended W&L
for both his undergraduate and law
school work, starting in 1947.

Wolfe brieﬂy describes the W&L
campus as “bucolic...(one that) rolled
across a hundred acres shaded by an—
cient trees and dotted with handsome
Greek Revival-style columned build-
1ngs.”

Wachtler decided to attend W&L
after he was denied admission to Yale
University.

He was a campus leader, his frater-
nity president, and held prominent po-
sitions in the Literary Society, debate
team and the Forensic Union.

He even received an inter-fraternity
council award reserved for the student
“who has contributed most tom cam-
pus activities.”

Wachtler was later elected presi-
dent of W&L’s Bar Association.

This is the story of corruption and
deceit that shocked and bafﬂed Ameri-
can people.

It is a story that should especially
bafﬂe students of W&L, accustomed
to the honor code and its high standards
of character.

How could a man so prominent as a
student here have gone so astray after
forty-one years of marriage and de-
cades of a successful career?

The forty-two year old married
judge, a father of four, had led an
apparently unblemished life until he
vented his rage at Joy Silverman in a
torrent of obscene letters and phone
calls — and threatened her young
daughter as well.

"You better hope I die soon because
ifl don't you‘ll wish you were dead,"
wrote Wachtler in a letter to Joy
Silverman, ripped up by him and found
by the FBI just before his arrest.

Wachtler, who had been appointed
judge by Mario Cuomo and was hailed
as a possible Republican candidate for
President, was sentenced to a prison
term and expelled from the New York

Bar Association.

Wolfe's rendition of the Wachtler
affair is blatantly written in the style of
such T.V. shows as A Current Affair
and Hard Copy.

The narrative has few substantial
twists.

Also, prologue elicits much the
same information that is painstakingly
delivered throughout the remainder of
the story.

Wolfe’s Double Life is compiled
from hundreds of interviews.

She is also the author of Wanted:
The Preppie Murder (1989).

Both books are available from
Pocket Books publishing.

Photo courtesy of Pocket Books

Sol Wachtler was a promising young college student at
Washington and Lee. Extremely active at W&L during his
college years, Wachtler is pictured here with the Washing-
ton and Lee Literary Society (front row, center). He was the
secretary-treasurer of the Society.

Peterson.

“lt’s an embarrassingly
one—dimensional
song,” Shepherd said. “it’s
a very straight ahead lyric
that borderson bubble gum,
which I think is very valid.
I place just as much value
on the Archies as I do the
Stones and the Small Faces
and other rock ‘n’ roll
bands.”

Crank is
sixth album. The Gurus
first album, Stoneage
Romeos, was named “De-
but Album of the Year” in
Australia and topped the
alternative charts in
America.

The band’s 1985 album,
Mars Needs Guitars,was a
similar success.

A European/U.S. tour
that same year included
sell-out shows at bondon’s
Hammersmith Place, as
well as an opening jaunt
with the Bangles.

albums,Kinkywastheonly
one not to top the alterna-
tive charts-—it stayed at number two on the
charts for five weeks behind R.E.M.’s “Out of

The Hoodoo Gurus play at the W&L Pavil-
ion on Saturday Sept. 10, sponsored by the
Interfraternity Council and the Student Activi-
ties Board. Doors open at 8:30 p.m.

Natural Born Killers a morbid farce

 
   

Michael Chertoff

$1; ife

loodooGurussteelym1xo energy and rhythm

love

the band’s

Of the group’s other

PAGE 3

Movie is visually stunning, overly pretentious

by KIRK SUsoNG
Phi Movie Reviewer

 

Natural Born Killers —- Two Stars

Natural Born Killers, Oliver Stone’s latest over-induI-
gence, continues in the same vein as his other films of years
past: The Doors, JFK, etc.

Once again he has created a visually stunning and
cinematically amusing piece with pretensions to deep
thought.

Typically, Stone takes some timely subject, distorts and
manufactures facts, and ends up with a very controversial
and powerful piece.

Here, though, he was working from a script (originated
by the brilliant Quentin Tarantino) which was only an echo
of reality, so he does very little actual ly lying.

The story revolves around a young married couple,
Michael and Mallory Knox (Woody “The only surviving
member of Cheers” Harrelson and Juliette Lewis), who go
on a three-week rampage across America, killing every-
thing in sight—

got stuck playing a dim—witted bar-keep for so many years.

Jack Scagnetti, who finally arrests the couple and in the
end is killed by them in the riot, is played to a T by Tom
Sizemore.

He manages to keep the role, which like the others in the
film might easily sink to silliness, from falling into pure
schlock.

Unfortunately, the same can not be said of Tommy Lee
Jones, who brings absolutely no sadness or reality to his
enthused but demented warden.

Imagine either his character from The Fugitive or The
Client, only in the style of a televangelist: over-the-top,
pompadoured and devoid of badly needed irony.

The same can not be said of Stone’s directorial efforts.

He has applied the irony not with a brush but with a
dump truck.

The film quickly becomes Bonnie and Clyde meets the
B-52’s or Deee-Lite: a visually startling, emotionally trou-
bling farce of itself.

Many seem to wonder how Stone could have gotten
Warner Bros. to release a film of such incredible violence
(for example, Mallory burns her own mother to death).

But the violence of this ﬁlm is neither immature like
Friday the 13th nor intellectual as in Schir.'dler’s List.
Rather, it is hyper-cool, like an MTV remake of Faces of
Death.

Stone makes the violence and the terrora laughable, silly,
pathetic scene.

The death and destruction become very black comedy,

the movie a mor-

the final tally is bid f3TC¢- _
over fifty people. In the opening
Eventually scene. for ex-
they arg apprg- ample, Michael
hended by macho and Mano)?’ are 31‘
super-cop Jack 1’°_3d)l "1 ‘hf?
Scagnettiand sent midst’s of their

to a tough peni-
tentiary, whose
warden happens to
be Tommy Lee
Jones.

Is itjust me, or
does Tommy Lee
seem to figure
prominently in
most of the mov-
ies released these
days?

At any rate, in
jailthe story shifts
to the efforts of
sleaze-bag jour-
nalist Wayne Gale
(played surpris-
ingly well by the
normally annoy-

three-week spree.

At asmall road-
side cafe, they
mercilessly kill
five or six people
whoseonlycrimes
are bad taste or
manners. But
Stone makes the
killings overly
clever — not ultra-
violent, but ultra-
cinematic.

When a bullet
is shot towards a
waitress, we are
temporarily given
a ‘bullet’s eye’
view - the camera
shrieks towards

ing Robert the screaming
Downey,Jr.)toin- W0m3ﬂ, With 3
rel-View Michael, small bulletsuper-
Finally the inter- imP0Sed 33916503-

view sets off a riot,
ending the
warden’s trem-
bling, clutching grasp on life, as well as the lives of most of
the prison guards.

The prisoners break free, inspired by Michael’s pseudo-
philosophical, quasi-poetic testimony to the “purity” of
murder. In the end Michael and Mallory manage to escape,
killing Wayne Gale before his own camera. '

It is clear this movie could have provided a very curious,
thought-provoking look at modern America.

For example, when Wayne Gale is killed by the escaping
duo, is it a testimony to the media’s true impotence, show-
ing us journalists as mere recorders, like the camera which
filmed Gale’s impromptu execution?

On the other hand, the couple were only provided with
a chance at escape because of Gale’s ratings—driven inter-
view.

Perhaps Stone is trying to say that the media is slowly
choking itself with trash?

And, as passable as the story-line is, the acting is decent
as well.

Woody Harrelson continues to make us wonder how he

tom of the screen.
Then he shows us
blood splattering
against the cafe wall. Stone doesn’t run from the violence;
in fact, he embraces it.

But he embraces it by highlighting the bizarre or ironic
or trivial moments, as when Mallory, ﬂeeing down the
highway in a convertible, shoots a bronze medal cyclist who
happens to be going down the same road.

In sum, Oliver Stone has created a movie tailored for
Generation X —— fast, furious, funny, but still depressingly
real and violent and sexual. He uses incredibly fast cuts, an
extremely evocative soundtrack, and over-doses of cultural
irony and self—awareness.

Stone doesn’t develop the plot, or the characters, or the
issues, he just focuses on his directing.Unfortunately he has
over—done that, and so Natural Born Killers is a beautiful,
witty, black but incredibly pretentious ﬁlm, meant to ad-
dress you and me.

Despite his credentials as a rebel, Stone fails to find the
youth in any but the most superﬁcial ways, and we are left
feeling like we just watched a Burger King commerical
where Dan Cortes decides to kill the drive-thru worker.

 

 

PAGE 4

  

HBIIISTBBIBI  

Mixed Media

The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1994

By Jack Ohman

 

 

REDUCED PR|CES!.R'ﬁf;.v,.
CENTER CUT 

BONELESS
PORK cnops A

 

  

LB.

 

MEANS   PRICES

GOVERNMENT INSPECTED

FRESH BONELESS ER
CHARGE
WHOLE ‘""““"°“"°

OlN..»..

   
  
  

WI 5,---9,-"¢,_

._.  _._“:._,.  Y‘  _ .
4 .<,  - ~..;,-_.- '

W ‘R

-53¢ .
‘.

   
   
 

 

1; ’;f  _ EREsI-I -I
I , ’ ‘ A MLI5I'IRO0M5.....soz.

CABBAGE

5.... 152122531
GREEN
ONIONS .... ...u~§489

CR sp
CULUMBEIlS.....s%‘79

 Q €EIa’ia'3Is.m...89
29

. =3):-
. ‘_,,



  

LB.

 

GREEN GIANT

 

COKE OR

  

BREYER'S
ICE CREAM

 

VEGETABLES DIET COKE
II - 9 9 2%'g(i 
smgé 0 NR3 .
 

 

SOFT ‘N GENTLE
BATH TISSUE

   

 

 

 

SQ. FT.
2/ O0 
4 ROLL
PACK
GREEN IERSSEE O
HARRIS IEEIER...rIIE BEST Is WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT

SELECTED VARIETIES IN THE DEU-BAKERY SUCED TO ORDER

LAY'S POTATO  VIRGINIA 99
 601. C  LB.
'i‘E‘ia‘“il‘I'i“I‘i.R 2 oo i’5“E"c"I‘l‘I‘>"E‘I*I'?'°‘ oo

BARS ..I.2.../ COOKIES 3

DELI SELECT boz.

Laussw APPEARANGS WED Lme To sea
Tl-IE Mc LAueI-IL-N

    

PICK ME-’ N°/ME.’ Me.’ Mam

  

  

Rusu LIM3Aueu: _
T-IE EARN YFNZS I

‘II

PLAN AHEAD f0R THE
BIG fun or SEASON

- Foaturln Trek
- Dlamon Back

0 Giant - sales & Sorvlco
- Pick-Up & Delivery Available
- Janspon Bags a. Packs

 

    
     

(LOSE-OUT SALE

through September

 

Welcome Freshmen!

NIHT OWL MUSIC co.

 

WILL BE HUI TUESDAY 1 P.M.

ALL VARIETIES LUNCH MEATS
HILLSHIRE EARM 179

"$4488

LEVERYIJNE IILIME AI [|N[IE]

Prices Effective Through Sept. I3, I994

P’ |Th'AdEIIl' d,Sel be7Th LIT ,
mes n L5 ec we ‘LL MLIICIYD Limeleénuorqlilfes. Lsgge $3 (I To Dec ers. We G adly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

On y.We Reserve e Rig

day Se gember 1 1? 1994 [In our Le'xin'gton store

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050
Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.

 

‘ K

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September

BY PHIL CARROT!‘

9, 1994

In the beginning of planning for the
science center, the projected cost was

 

currently doing at least some form of
research in facilities which have not

1‘ Phi Managing Editor $8 million. The final projected cost been improved since 1962. .
shows how committedthe Washington By the way, you can have the sci— g
and Lee Board of Trustees is to quality ence center named for you for just $10
-‘A5 °"‘f1'Y°n° has 5°°“.a“da for those education. million, or maybe the new building for
takmg 59199999135565 thlstcrms heard: The science center is the largest $5 million.
ﬁe °°“S"“°“°“ has begun 0“ ‘he “Cw physical aspect of the current On the The On the Shoulders of Giants

science center.
The $22 million facility should be
complete, with renovation of both

Shoulders of Giants campaign.
Besides student research, just about
every (if not every) science professor is

campaign publication, “The New Sci-
ence Center,” provided many facts for
this story.

PAGE 5

 Science center completion planned for ’97

   
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

   
 
  
  
  
    
   
   
 

Pannly and Howe Halls, around Au-
, gust 1997.

1 The University ’s construction man-
ager and general contractor, J. M.
Turner & C0,, which constructed
Gaines Hall and renovated other Uni-
versity buildings, is the company do-

}; ing the construction for this project as
well.

The main building, to be situated
, between Parmly and Howe, should be
‘ ﬁnished around June 1996. At that
time the Chemistry and,Geology De-
partments will move into the new build-
ing and Howe will be renovated.

When Howe is habitable, the Biol-

ogy and Physics Departments will move
out of Parrnly, which will then be reno-
A vated to house the Psychology and

Computer Science Departments.

The new building will increase the
amount of space available to the sci-
ences by about 35,000 square feet to
90,000 square feet.

1 4 S A Wdwme gcwé Al ~ E ~
1 7/‘M 5 & .7 g 11111 " 3111115
102 W. Washington
94% 2 Blue Blazers Ray—Bans
O n Duckhead Pants Redwing Boots
* St P _ for Bass Weejuns W&L Belts, Ties, Dog
Lunch 0/’ D[nner Dirty Bucks Collars & Leashes
Tuxedo Sales & Rentals W&L Straw Hats,
4. 7 C1 G)/S 0 Week Embassy Boxers Visors & Tennis Hats
24 North Main St. V_ M t 517366 19%: d t Ch
_ isa, as ercar or u en arge
‘ 464 58”” Mon. - Sat. 9-5330 463-5383

FIEE EQHEEHT

Th: IIT and EDD arr spgnsgring Th:

    
       

I000OIIO<IIOIOIOOIOIIOOOOOIOOIOIOOOOOIOOIOOIOIO
 COME BY OUR NEW LOCATION AT THE MATTINGLY HOUSE
- - -‘ AND PICKUPYOUR COPY AT:

Each year more than 1 million stu-
dents and alumni rely on Job
Choices to help them ﬁnd a job.

-Planning Job Choices: 1995

CAREER DEVELOPMENT & PLACEMENT OFFICE
SENIOR MEETINGS

‘- .10» Choices inliusiness Wed., 9/14/94 Northen Auditorium 4:00 pm
'-'01’ Choice‘ "" SCi9"C’—’ <9 Eﬂgineefing Thurs., 9/15/94 Game Room UC 7:00 pm

‘I017 Choice‘ 1" He“""”“’9 Tues., 9/20/94 Northen Auditorium 4:00 pm

{vs your guide to career planning, the Thurs., 9/22/94 Northen Auditorium 4:00 pm

‘ job search, graduate school, and Mon., 9/26/94 Northen Auditorium 4:00 pm
Work-related education. Wed., 9/28/94 Northen Auditorium 4:00 pm

oppogcxggot

A
4, WELCOME
BA&:Kl
.. CHEC|< OUT OUR
DRESSES,
1 SHOES €31
ACCESSORIES

UT Th: Fauiﬁgn

]799rs gprn at BSD
Urtr Enrdrn - I17 rrquirrd

PAppAQAHo
23 N. |\/IAIN

 

    

PAGE 6

Elite Titian-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Are we physically fit yet?

We hate to belabor a point, but...we have a problem with
the whole physical education requirement here at Washing-
ton and Lee.

No one is a bigger proponent of sports and the necessity of
staying in shape than the editors of T he Ring-tum Phi are, but
we wonder if the current system really serves its purpose.

Is it beneficial to punish hard-working but single-sport
athletes by requiring them to take valuable time from their
busy schedules to learn a sport which they will very probably
never use? Does this enrich the students of Washington and
Lee University?

With 60 percent student participation in varsity athletics,
not to mention a healthy intramural competition, the last
thing the administration should be worrying about is physi-
cal education credits.

There is also a very limited array of sports to be learned,
as well as a very limited time to learn them in. A very valid
alternative might be to allow students to fill their require-
ments by pledging to have completed a certain number of
exercises in a sport not taught by the department. Those
students who were avid mountain bikers, scuba divers, rugby
players or rock climbers could opt out of the squash classes
by doing something they enjoyed on their own time.

This could also relieve some of the headaches the first day
of classes, when students who want the prime spots in P.E.
classes must rise with the birds.

Students should also be allowed to propose their own
sports and even volunteer to teach a section which would fit
into more schedules. Because most of the physical education
professors are coaches, late afternoon P.E. classes are non-
existent, and student-taught sections could be scheduled for
the afternoon slots which many more non-athlete students
have free. g

Another good plan would be to allow athletes who play a
varsity sport for four years, even if it is only one season (and
most sports are in training of some sort for six months or
more every year), be completely absolved of the require-
ment. You can bet that a four-year soccer player is in good
shape and has aquired some of that great well-roundedness
that liberal arts universities are so famous for.

Take the executive editor of The Ring-tum Phi as an
example of someone who does not need a physical education
requirement. She has competed in ten or twelve different
track and field events, indoor and outdoor, for going-on four
years. She mountain bikes, skis, and lifts weights in her spare
time. Yet our senior editor will have two more physical
education classes to schedule into her already busy senior
year. Is this absolutely necessary?

Though the student body has been meekly decrying the
physical education requirement for years, nothing has been
done to change the requirement and all of our bright ideas
have seemed to fall on deaf ears. Can something be done?
This has gone on long enough.

Quote of the Week:

“Come on, honey, you can come back in nine years. ...If
we have any money left.”

---Freshman mother to her nine-year old daughter

Ellie illing-tum lﬁhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-rum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1994

Lsxmsron welcomes -ms rrtsunei

Live from Washington: my summer

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

I bet you were wondering what I did
this summer, besides eating, shower-
ing, watching TV, and planning my
new show in Las Vegas. Well, l’ll tell
you.

I worked for Accuracy in Media in
Washington, D.C., an organization
whose mere mention made several of
the journalism school professors al-
most spill their coffee. The summer
was quite an education.

My friend-, Andy, my betta ﬁsh,
Betta Theta Pi, and I shared a room in
what I believe was a converted crack
house in Arlington, down the street
from Washington-Lee High School.
Our room was tastefully appointed,
free of charge, with red carpet, a red
vibrating lounge chair with a leopard-
skin cover, portraits of semi-clad
women on the walls, and an old guy
across the hall who was seeking asy-
lum from Sweden.

“Things are not all right over there
[in Sweden],” our landlord, Mrs. Beach,
said.

The Swede and we shared a kitchen
that came complete with an appetizing
mothball fragrance and a refrigerator
that arbitrarily defrosted itself if we put
food inside.

We also shared a bathroom, the
condition of which made me seriously
consider bathing in public fountains in

Community service benefits all

front of the Capitol as an alternative.
Above the Swede and us lived The
Cross-Eyed Guy and the guy we saw
waving a metal detector over the front
yard one night after dark. I suspected
the two lived in a symbiotic relation-
ship, where the Metal Detector Guy
followed The Cross-Eyed Guy’s direc-
tions to ﬁnd buried treasure in the yard
(which The Cross-Eyed Guy couldn’t
see).
They then
split the proceeds

subway to work was kind of fun for me
and Andy. We would stand up in the
subway cars in the morning carrying
our briefcases and reading the newspa-
per and looking like we were high-
powered lobbyists on our way to help
pass the National Mandatory Ketchup
Use Act.

By the next week we had changed
and as we entered the train we had zero
pity for anyone
who occupied
seats that were

and lived happily
on the second
floor, where they
discussed how
each otherlooked
on the previous
night’sAmerica’s
Most Wanted.

A major sell-
ingpointwhenwe
rented this place
for the summer
was the washer
and dryer on the

(6

Our room was taste-
fully appointed, free of
charge, with red carpet, a
red vibrating lounge
chair with a leopard-skin
cover, portraits of semi-
clad women on the walls,
and an old guy across the
hall who was seeking

rightfully ours. A
few swift kicks,
along with a few
friendly “whaps”
from a Washing-
ton Post cleared a
seat up right way.

Social life in
Washington is
even better than
the tourist books
suggest.Andyand
I made almost
nightly trips to

back porch. We
didn’t realize un-
til after we had
moved in that the
neighbors feltfree
to use the washer and dryer 24 hours a
day, if necessary, to prevent us from
using them. If they ran out of laundry
they contacted close relatives and
friends to come over and use the ma-
chines.

The first couple of days riding the

MY VIEW

Paul D. Saboe, ’97

Washington and Lee University has long been
associated with meaningful words such as honor and
excellence. The spirit of honor fostered by President
Robert E. Lee under the guidelines of the Honor
System has endured to this day, thanks primarily to

the mindful dedication
of students past and
present, a true testimony
to how sacred honor is
held at this institution.
In addition, Wash-
ington and Lee Univer-
sity has become identi-
ﬁed with another impor-
tant word, service. The
students of Washington
and Lee have neverbeen
strangers to service.
They have always
shown their commit-
ment to others through

community and school related service projects. How-
ever, never has the ﬂame of service burned so brightly
in the hearts and minds of all those who attend this
university as it does today. Alpha Phi Omega, the Big
Brother/Big Sister organization, the AIDS Aware-
ness Association, and the University Federation are
just a sampling of the many Washington and Lee
sponsored organizations that are devoted to service.
The students who participate in these organizations
and others like them have clearly taken to heart the

words of the late Arthur Ashe:

“True heroism is remarkably sober, very undra-
matic. It is not the urge to surpass all others at
whatever cost, but the urge to serve others at whatever

cost.”

This spirit of service that characterizes Washing-
ton and Lee is indeed commendable. General Wash-
ington and General Lee would both be honored to
connected to an institution such as ours where stu-

a-———

“True heroism‘ is remarkably
sober, very undramatic. It is not
the urge to surpass all others at
whatever cost, but the urge to serve
others at whatever cos . ”

— Arthur Ashe.

asylum from Sweden.

dents pursue and practice the Rotary motto of “Ser-
vice above Self.” Yet, now is not the time for loud and
hearty congratulations, but rather the time for quiet
and careful meditation and action. Now more than
ever we must expand our service efforts and reach out
to more of those in need whether they are a homeless
person with no place to sleep or a young child having
trouble understanding basic addition.

At Washington and Lee we are being groomed as
the leaders of tomorrow and no where is that leader-
ship needed more than right here in Lexington and no

in reality, by serving others we are doing nothing
more than helping ourselves mature as responsible
and contributing members of society.

Are you mad as hell and you’re
not going to take it anymore?

- Well, it isn't Network, but the Phi
editorial pages are just as
exciting. Write a letter or “My

View” and drop it off in
University Center 208 by
Tuesday noon and you'll soon
be influencing W&L readers. We
promise we won't shoot you.

 

Giant Supermar-
ket down the
street, home of
Giant ice cream
and Giant cola and
Giant Jolly Green Giant vegetables.
Sometimes things got a little wild on
double coupon days.

For entertainment I would some-
times eat a dinner of peas on my front
porch and then throw the empty can
into the street to drive down the neigh-

where can it be put to better
use than in the field of ser-
vice. For those already in-
volved in a service organi-
zation, become more in-
volved, work harder to im-
prove your efforts and ex-
pand the impact you have
on those around you.

For thsoe not presently
involved, get involved,
challenge yourselves with
a new endeavor that could
open your eyes to the en-
joyment of service and for-
ever change your life. For,

 

If you have not paid for your yearbook
pictures yet, you can drop off a check in
Carol Calkins’ office in University Center.
The cost is $15 for freshmen, sophomores,
and juniors and $20 for seniors. Fraternity
members may use their composite pictures
in the yearbook.

The W&L chapter of Habitat for Human-
ity will have an information booth by Wil-
son Field during the Class Agent's football
game Saturday, Sept. 10. Habitat will begin
its fundraising drive with the 2nd annual
Buy A Brick for a Buck, to be held outside
the Co-op Thursday, Sept. 16 and Friday,
Sept. 17 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.

The Film Society will begin its 1994-95
season with Four Weddings and Funeral.
Showings will be on Friday, Sept. 16 and
Saturday, Sept. 17 at the Troubadour The-
atre. Friday night showings will be at 8 p.m.,
and at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. on Saturdays.

Did you forget to get your free 1994
yearbook? You can pick one up from Carol
Calkins in University Center between
8:30 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1-4:30 p.m.

bots’ property values. If I was lucky,
the neighborhood children would be
watching and then I could make scary
faces too. See, Mom, I am capable of
entertaining myself.

There was always the exciting
Washington nightclub scene. I found
most nightclubs to be hot enough in-
side to melt the black paint and grafﬁti
off the walls and evaporate the $8 cup
of water that someone under 21 could
purchase for refreshment.

This was a tactic to force members
of the audiences to sweat so much that
they would become delusional and start
banging into each other, crowd surf-
ing, gouging eyeballs, etc. as a way of
displaying their musical appreciation.

Speaking of gouging out eyeballs,
in July I had a superpower summit
meeting with Betsy Green in Lexing-
ton. Through my translators I proposed
that we divide the town into two sec-
tors, because two Phi humor colum-
nists can’t exist in the same territory
without dying off (we’re like deer that
way).

Here’s my proposal: Betsy gets
Gaines Hall and the old ROTC build-
ing, and I get everything else in Lex-
ington and good chunk of Raphine. If
Betsy crosses into my territory, stu-
dents will be entitled to confront her
and demand her to sing a rendition of
Pearl Jam’s “I’m Still Alive” as retri-
bution. Betsy will also be required to
cook them a complete Spam dinner.

lt’s going to be a good year in Dream
Land.

Pictures

Habitat

Film

Calyx

),.

 

. ‘K ifrhe Ring-tum Phi, September 9, 1994 OPINION PAGE 7
I ,  
TALKBACK
« Interviews and Photos Layout
By Betsy Green By Joe Framptom

What do you like best about Washington and Lee so far‘?

       

“The Honor Code.” — Sheri “The friendships.” — Mogana “D-hall food... but not really.” —

“Free beer.” —— Dave Wilkins,

“Friendly atmosphere.” —— Nicole Richard, White Bear Lake, Minn. and Ann

 

  

Binghamton, N.Y. Hamilton, Johnson City, Tenn. Wise, Potomac, Md. Richards, Fair Rockaway, N.Y. Justin Riedell, Hopewell Junction,
N.Y.
1 medium 14" CHEESE & 2 TOPPING PIZZA
.-4 $6.49
WITH THIS COUPON
WHEN You RIDE IJRIINK ONE MORE -
ron TIIE none cII’I IIAVE ________ _ _(§S1_‘°§) ________ _ _
' AN ENTIRE“ DIFFERENT MEINING. or
‘ 2 Medium 14" CHEESE & 2 TOPPING PIZZAS °
‘ $11.99 The Greatest In Fashion,
WITH THIS COUPON
<16shces> __ ___ Famous Name Brand
Alcohol quiciklyfiaffectbs yourjudgmentﬁbalainlgie, a:ndIcc];ordinatio(riI.When thels)e fapuiltie:     0 0 u t l 
' ' , ' ‘ t ' u t. t ecomes an erous. on’ rin , ,
 y2u1rnl%Istedl)ilI11l:lnIingolll3 beirrdur lacst drink. lIDTOIiGYGgLE SAFEIYFDIIIDATIOII ® 10 Minute Pick-Up g
  FRANK’S PIZZA 
”‘ \ ‘ // , 17 South Main Street 463-9730
\ 4 Hours: Mon. - Sat. 10-5:30

463-7575

Hot & Cold Subs - Salads - Dinners - Beverages

Please mention this ad when calling in an order

, Marlene ’s Hairstylist 
would like to welcome incoming
W&L freshmen and returning
upperclassmen

 —- V":
_ , ' .9

Breakfast Lunch Dinner
ﬁt ajfordable entrees daily
from 4:00 p.m.

42 42 —

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

   

. Dry Cleaning, Make us your hair-care headquarters
 Outdoor Patlo Alterations, Hair cutting and styling (for men and women)
St . S . t . Perms - Foil Highlights
elon Ocle y now  laundry: French Manicures - Acrylic Nails
A_ accepting new members Tanning Beds — Hot Waxing

Tuxedo Rental

Complete line of Nexis and Paul Mitchell products
Call or stop by for an appointment,

 Harbs’

A Walk-ins Welcome
ézstm E}/mg penal 7 N ' Jefferson St’ 25 N. Main St. 463-6003
,9 w w,.,/..«,,,,.,n_st. 463-3622 M-F 9-5, sat. 9-1

 

  

 

 

 

 
   
 

 

4‘  l CO0000000000COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
_  WW (3 I
. T - SHIRTS CAPS I
“ Can We Do More For You?
The answer is YES! If you would like to review our directories, newsletters and disk/CD-ROM
~« V A products for a FREE 30-day trial period, please check below and return:
" 0 Standard Periodical Directory ............................................. .. $495 N
DSPDOD(Pub||cations on CD-ROM) ........................... ..sse5 3"”
3 gxgrldge Directory of Newsletters ...................................... .. $395 Title
a I Direct of ......................................... ..
< Z scruznn prtmmrc Eln3XM0DE°lIIagrzlI$::id‘rlsDisk) .............................. ..s1$,§33 °°'“"“"V
:37 El National Directory of Catalogs ............................................ .. 3295 Address
“ave a wig of a year 0 OXCODE (C8t3l00S on DISK) ..................................... .. $995 - -
SWE A1-5 With JACKETS '3 "3“°"3' Directory of Mailing Lists ..................................... .. 3345 my’ Sm’ 2'"
A A 8 S D The college Media Directory $145 Telephone
0 Publishing Trends & Trendsetters (1 OX per year) ............... .. $245
 PRINTING _ D Who's Printing What (Newsletter) ...................................... .. 3195 0 Please send me information on your directories on diskl
V4 Rockbﬁdge Baths ’ VA. 0 Ust Leads (Newsletter-Obscure Direct Marketing Leads) $145 0 Please send me information on advertising in your directories.
‘ 348-5114
DO YOU Want Credit Cards’? UNI—CARD BOX 22o645.I1oLLrwooD,FL 33022 _
I ' I . '
A, . '
Now you can have the most recognized . I  Iwant‘MASI"E1CARDO Immediately. g
1 "credit card in the world EVEN IF vou AM: NEW IN I goov. uuuuurasny I
I nnuVﬂEg"VEllﬂll)lh%EFon cm-:orr or HAVE BEEN ‘TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . I
 - I 'M‘tercanIo the redltcard I I
I ‘ THE ROAD CAN HAVE deserve and need fa: lD—BOOKS—cDEPARTMl§"ll' I NAME I
E An Eﬂ'|'|nE|_y STORES-—TUI1‘lON—l-2N’l'ER‘l‘AlNM ENl‘— , .
l DIFFEB EMERGENCY (‘J\SH—TlCKE'TS—RESTAURANTS— ADDRESS
F El" MEANINE HO1‘ELS—MOTELS—GAS—CAR RI-:NT'ALS— ' '
5 1 A] h I _ kl aﬁ _ d REPAlRS—AND T0 mnw YOUR CREDIT RATING! : CITY STATE _ ZIP __.._.- :
I . C0 0 v " L
l balancefllallicd ZooreclCitrlz1}t(i)<l)lrr1IuD§$fnt’ No mm downs! ' I STUDENF? ' —‘———‘‘’Yes "0 SS" '
I 32Ii;I3hIi:~;2,LrI:;';::r at  {::;;,'::::.,°,":;:',;:-,,,. -s-enemas :
l mymncyglg Wm I.-oulmmou  gN.gtE‘§°3,_c\€ ' ' DOTS: Nhslerthnl Is a Ieglsmtd tndcnnrk d Mater-uni Inkmnlloml. Inc.
I 6“ $09!‘ R R
n UPON TODAY
I " ° SEND THE C0 I MAIL Tins NO Risk COUPON TODAY I
I YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING! . * * '

 

 

Last Week:

Fall sports teams continued to
paractice for the upcoming season.

This Week:

FBALL- vs. Emory and Henry (H)
CC- Lebanon Valley Invit. (M&W)
SOCCER (M)- vs. York

‘Lillie iﬁittg-tum ilﬁlii

SPORTS

 

(W)- vs. Sewanee V
VOLLEYBALL- vs. Christopher Newport
WATER POLO- W&L Invitational
FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL SEPTEMBER 9, 1994 iv
Dean of W&L golf steps down 
mind [before the champion- In 1963, Leslie was hired as stars for his service as a un ca -
By  G"f""' Ship],”Lesliesaid.“Thatclinched assistant to golf coach Cy tain in the Paciﬁc during Worlid
H" Staff Wm” it!” Twombly, a position he held un- War II. ,3.
Washington& Lee’s golf pro- tilTwombly’sdeathin1975.That After the war he enrolled at
Washington & Lee golfooaeh gram gained national prominence Season, Les|ie’stwo-decade reign W&L and was a four-year letter
E_G, “Buck” Leslie is retiring as under Leslie. The seven-time as head coach teed-off with a 13- winner forthe baseball team. The
the University’s golf coach after ODAC Coach of the Year guided 2 record. school ’s outstanding pitcher
20 years at the helm, the Generals into the NCAA Di- “It was great to work for both award is named for him. ,
Leslie decided to call it quits vision Ill Tournament on five Lee and Cy,” Leslie said. “Those Walsh notes that Leslie’sskills
after guiding the Generals to last occasions, placing in the top ten were two great coaches.” as a coach will be missed by the
spring’s Old Dominion Athletic three times. Rockbridge County has been University.
Conference championship, his However, Leslie feelsthe best Leslie’s home his entire life. “Buck embodies all that is
seventh ODAC title, He retires team he coached was onethat did Upon his 1943 graduation from rightand properwith college ath-
with a magniﬁcent career record not even receive a tournament Lexington High School, the letics,” Walsh said. “We wish 1"
of 261-44-4. berth. former football star served in the him well during his well-deserved
Bill Raleigh, who is entering In 1978, an 8-1 record and Navy, where he earned six battle retirement.”
his third season as W&L’s assis— second straight conference cham-
tant men’s basketball coach, has pionship for W&L was not good
been hired as acting head golf enough for a trip to nationals A.
coach for the upcoming fall and although Leslie believes they
spring seasons. Raleigh becomes could have placed as high as see-
just the third head coach in the 0nd. That team was anchored by
68-year history of W&L’s golf Jerry Maatman, 8 IWO-time first
program. team All-American.
Leslie has been a member of The 69-year old Leslie gradu- "
the University’s athletic depart- ated from Washington & Lee in
ment for 34 years, a tenure that 1949 and returned as an assistant
will officially end in December football coach in 1960. The Gen-
when he completes his ﬁnal se- erals went 25-1-1 over the next
mester of teaching the Physical three seasons and earned the small l,
Education golf class. college national championship in ‘
Washington & Lee Athletic 1961. . , _ F“°P'=°*°
Director Mike Walsh said Leslie “The greatestthrillI’ve had in Angle Carrmgton Murphy Was one _of the most
ranks «among the vﬂy best athletics,” said Leslie,«wasiobe noteable female athletes in the short history of co-
coaches to have represented asked to come back to my Alma education at Washingmn and Lee-
W&L.” Mater and coach football.” "‘
Leslie said he had virtually Then head coach Lee o
decided on his retirement durin McLaughlin hailed Leslieas“the t t k 6
the latterpart oflastseason. Wheﬁ best” coaching assistant in the C a. I I 1 n g 0 n a S
the 32-9 Generals took home a state. Upon McLaughlin’s death File Photo .
gecord seventh ODAC crown, he ggior to tthe ’68 season, Leslie Washington and Lee golf coach Buck Leslie ended . _;
°1”h°‘im° was right 33" 3 1V€*Y€ar run as head a 34 year career with the W&L athletic de artment t t  t h
“I had almost made up my football coach. this summer. p S a e a e  
awards banquet in Washington
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD D.C.. Murphy is the first W&L .
. . Phi Sports Editor student to be honored with the '*
award, which encompasses all
F O    S     -I h   S Recently graduated Washing- divisions of college athletics.
ton and Lee student Angie Carrington-Murphy was a
Carrington Murphy earned one four year letter-winner in soccer
By Tory Noto beat the Eagles 28-23. Atlanta Falcons and Washington Dan Marino silenced his of the top female athletic honors and lacrosse at W&L and served pi,
and Jason Teams The Giants looked better than Redskins, were not successful in doubters as he threw for 5 in the nation this summer. as captain of each for her last two
Phi Comribuﬁng writers we thought they would, consid- their season openers. touchdowns (including 3 to The former first team All- years on campus.
—————————T— ering that this is their first game JuneJones’sﬁrst gameashead Irving Fryar) and over 400 American lacrosse player was Lacrosse was Carrington-
There isn’t any hockey to without Phil Simms and L.T. coach was an experience to be yards in the Dolphin’s win in named as Virginia’s winner for Murphy’s strength. She was
discuss and there obviously lnexperienced quarterback forgotten as the Falcons choked, their see-saw battle with New the NCAA Woman of the Year named ﬁrst team all-region each 
isn’t any baseball going on, Dave Brown leads the Giants giving up a touchdown to the England. award. ofherﬁnalthreeyearsandearned
so we’re going to talk about Sunday night as they meet Lions in the closing moments of In allfairness Bill Parceiis Earlier in the summer All-Americanhonorstwicewhile
football. ‘ Buddy’s Boys, the Arizona Car- the game; Detroit went on to pre- and the Pats only lost by 4 Carrington-Murphy became the helping the Generals to two
The opening weekend to dinals. vail in O.T. points in the shadow of first female in W&L history to ODAC championships and one
the ’94 season was good The Eagles need to clean up The Skins under rookie coach Marino’s outstanding perfor- earn an NCAA post-graduate NCAA tournament berth.
enough to make up the slack. their sloppy ‘play before their Norv Turner were by no means a mance. scholarship. She was also mar- The athletic star also excelled ,5:
Mostimportanttothe authors home opener Monday night good football team. Washington The San Francisco 49ers, ried over the summer to four- in the classroom. Carrington-
of this article was the recent against the Bears. The Dallas Was trounced by Rick Mirer and Pérenniai Contenders, appear time All-Old Dominion Athletic Murphy graduated Phi Beta
match-up of the Giants and Cowboys, an inexplicably popu- the forgettable Seattle Seahawks. poised make a run for the Su- Conference soccer player Reid Kappa as a religion major.
the Eagles-long time division lar team at Washington and Lee, The reigning AFC champion per Bowl with the best in the Murphy. At graduation Carrington-
rivals. pummeledthrough the Steel Cur- Buffalo Bills looked flat against league as Jerry Rice became The NCAA Woman of the Murphy received the Algernon
Eagles fans anxiously tain of Pittsburgh. The transition the aging Boomer Esiason and the NFL’s leader in career Year program is in its third year Sydney Sullivan Medallion, the -"
awaited Randall “Scramble” to Barry Switzer’sleadership was the Jets. touchdowns scored in the of existence.The program names highest honor granted by the
Cunningham’s return, but not as traumaticasmost Cowboy Houston would seem to miss 49ers’ victory over Jeff 51 winners from each state and W&L facultv.
there was no Miracle of the fans feared, as the Steelers could Buddy Ryan’s “46 Defense”, as Hostedtler and the Raiders. the District of Columbia andthen In additiollshe was named the
Meadowlands to save Philly not contain Emmitt Smith and Marshall Faulk stampeded Enjoy week two of the anational winner is chosen from ODAC’s Female Scholar Ath-
from the wily and talented Michael Irvin. through the Oiler’s D, helping to NFL’s 75th anniversary sea— the group, lete of the Year and earned third it
Dave Meggett, as the Giants Two other local favorites, the rack up 42 unanswered points. son. The national winner will be team Academic All-America
selected on November 14 at an honors.

Come write for the Phi!
It's not only fun, but you get to find
out everything that goes on on campus
as it happens!
And if that's not enough we'll give you
free food if you come to our

informational meeting on

Sunday at 1p.m.

in Fairfax Lounge (which is the front
room in the University Center;

