      

   

Friday-Partty sunny . . ’
 __i9h.s

 

   

thrhaupp  7o§s.i

 
 

, r '1.’ L.,{.. ., "y
, . . ,'_  .

1;.‘ 1}’ -' ’"?'.‘"£A'*. vml’
I '1': '>v‘.‘ I"_‘_ ").~f '_w{.

Jim!   193+;-_

rmnsr stargate
UM:-IV 4:A1£‘N

 

Football crushes
Bridgewater

9 28-3

he iKi1tg—t1tm Iﬂlri

 

A

VOLUME 94. N0. 8 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA NOVEMBER 4 1994

« Live Drive slows with low participation

bers as a ride back from Zollman’s, but

...)

 

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

You cannot count on Live Drive to
shuttle you home from a late night
party at Zollman’s any longer.

As of earlier this week, Live Drive
was temporarily shut down due to lack
of volunteer support. Live Drive Di-
rector Brent Avery ’95, said that he
explored all avenues to generate stu-
dent support for the student-run ser-
vice, but could ﬁnd none.

Avery has been involved with Live
Drive since he was a freshman and has
noticed that volunteer support has de-
clined with each year.

Avery has expressed his disappoint-
ment with the poor showing.

The breaking point was this past
Halloween weekend. Avery had ini-
tially enlisted several people to drive,
but last minute cancellations resulted
in Live Drive being unable to operate.
This was not a rare occurrence for Live
Drive. Apparently, the paucity of stu-
dent volunteers has plagued Live Drive
for many months.

Avery said that it was upsetting that
students used Live Drive in great num-

did not return the favor and offer to
drive on a weekend they planned to
remain sober.

Avery was also disappointed with
the lack of fraternity support. While
sign-up lists were circulated to each of
the fraternities, not one submitted a list
of volunteers. Sororities, on the other
hand, were overwhelmingly support-
ive. Each offered Live Drive a list of
more than fifteen volunteers.

Dean of Students David Howison
and Avery decided that Live Drive
would no longer continue its service in
a joint meeting last week.

They agreed that the program would
be submitted to the Student Health
Committee of which Howison is head.

Student Health will study the future
of Live Drive and then recommend a
workable solution. The Committee will
also examine the role Live Drive has
played cr. campus and determine why
student volunteer support is lacking.

Howison said, “The Committee will
review Live Drive in the larger context
of the alcohol issue on this campus and
determine the role which it will play in
the future.”

Avery believed one of the main

infrequency with which it ran.

It was primarily offered on bi gparty
weekends such as Homecoming, Hal-
loween, Christmas, and Fancy Dress.

Since students rarely knew when
Live Drive was planning to operate,
few students ever called for service
on weekends other than major
party weekends.

Student reaction has been varied.
Some students are discouraged with
the shutting down of Live Drive.

“It’s unfortunate that we don’t have
enough volunteers, but that’s hypo-
critical of me to say because l’ve never
volunteered,” said senior Rob Eison.

Freshman Lorraine Taurassi said,
“It’s bad because you can’t always
depend on people who say their going
to stay sober and drive and then drink.”

Other students believe Live Drive
was not important and too few students
made use of it.

“No one really used it anyway. Fra-
ternities usually have sober drivers, so
it doesn’t really matter,” said sopho-
more Bill Rust.

The vans used for Live Drive will
be placed under the management of
Howison’s office. Students will still

problems regarding Live Drive wasthe W  - 4 _ _ I

 
 

  

 

F‘l Pilot
The Live Drive vans will no longer be used to ferry drunk Washington and Lee Univeiifsitg
students around Lexington. The vans will be under the control of Dean of Students David
Howison’s office. Student groups will be able to request use of them.

have access to them for the various
activities which may require their use.

Ultimately, Avery hopes to see Live
Drive resurrected, but understands that

student support is vital for this
to happen.

Goodlatte voices support for
term limits and other controls

By PETER WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

.Term limits would free the U.S. Congress
from the restrictive control of career politi-
cians, Representative Robert Goodlatte told a
crowded audience at his alma mater, Washing-
ton and Lee University Law School, last Thurs-
day night.

“If you disperse that power and you limit the
amount of time... I think you’re going to see a
much more responsive, streamlined, slimmed-
down Congress that truly is attending to its
legislative duties,” the Republican said in a
calmly-delivered, 45-minute speech to about
65 people.

Goodlatte, whose 6th Dis-
trict includes Lexington,
Roanoke, and Lynchburg, is
running unopposed for
his second term in
Tuesday’s election.

Goodlatte supports a con-
stitutional amendment limit-
ing the terms of Senators and
Representatives to 12 con-
secutive years that, he said,
would revive the Congress’
constitutional role.

“The nature of the Con-
gress, in terms of it being a
citizen legislature rather than
a career, has changed dra-
matically during the course
of the country,” he said. As Goodlatte envi-
sions term limits, members could return to
Congress with no seniority after a break in their
service. He said three problems with Congress
could be ﬁxed by limiting terms.

The ﬁrst problem, Goodlatte said, is the
seniority system. Traditionally, the the most
senior member of the majority party on a com-
mittee becomes the chairman.

“Right now, you have a Congress that is
dominated in the House of Representatives and
similarly in the Senate by eight or 10 mem-
bers,” Goodlatte said, referring to the chairmen
of the most inﬂuential committees. He said that
with term limits chairmen would be selected by
merit rather than seniority.

Second, Goodlatte said, members do not
participate in congressional deliberations. He
called the current system “an incentive to warm
a seat for decades” as a member waits to accu-
mulate seniority power. He said members

 

Goodlatte

would deliberate more if they had a limited
amount of time in the Congress.

Third, Goodlatte said, challengers can ’t over-
come the incumbent advantages like favorable
federal election laws, free mail, and large con-.
gressional staffs.

Goodlatte also discussed three arguments
against term limits. He said the strongest point,
that term limits restrict the right of voters to
choose, is “offset by the problems created by
career politicians.” Second, Goodlatte said,
term limits will not increase the power of other
Washington players like lobbyists, staff mem-
bers, and executive branch bureaucrats. Third,
Goodlatte said, he found that members in their
last term “work diligently to pass legislation”
rather than abuse or neglect
their power, as some term limit
opponents argue. He said that
the possibility of term limits
helping Republicans is not a
factor in his support.
Goodlatte also cited court
cases that support and oppose
term limits from a
judicial perspective.

Some political scientists
oppose term limits for‘ other
reasons. Albert Hunt writes
in Governing that members
would form cozy relationships
with special interests who
could employ them after their
shortened public service.
Hodding Carter III writes in
Perspective on American Government that in-
creasing the numberof inexperienced members
would make an already “gridlocked” Congress
even more inefﬁcient. Nelson Polsby argues
that term limits would force out good members
in Point-Counterpoint: Readings in
American Government.

So far, citizens in 17 states have limited the
terms of their members of the U.S. Congress.
Virginia does not allow proposals to originate
from citizen initiatives. On Tuesday, eight
additional states will vote on term limits.
Goodlatte said he supports these state initia-
tives because they increase pressure for term
limits nationally. Overall, Goodlatte says he
wants uniform limits through a constitutional
amendment. The constitutionality of these
state-initiatives will be debated before the
Supreme Court in an Arkansas case on
November 29.

If the court overrules the states’ efforts, term

limits could only be adopted by amending the
Constitution. That process requires the votes of
two-thirds of each house of Congress to pro-
pose an amendment and three-fourths of the

...,.S1a1e.Iegislaturcs to ratify it.

Goodlatte estimated that 180 more repre-
sentatives are needed to make two-thirds in the
House. Goodlatte did not estimate how many
more supporters are needed in the Senate.

Goodlatte said he supports other reforms
and has made changes in his own ofﬁce. He
said he cut his staff by 25 percent and spent less
than half of the amount of free postage he is
allowed. Goodlatte helped pass a rule that lim-
its anyone in the Republican caucus to six years
as a top committee chair.

Goodlatte ’77L and Maryellen Flaherty
Goodlatte, ’78L were married in Lee Chapel,
and he said they were the first married couple at
the law school.

He said that Davidson Park looks much
better than it did when he lived there in married
student housing for $70 a month. After gradu-
ating from W&L Law, Goodlatte worked for
Congressman Caldwell Butler handling con-
stituent problems. Goodlatte later chaired the
6th District Republican Party.

Goodlatte’s district was Republican from
1952-1982. Democrat Jim Olin represented the
district from 1982-1992. In 1992, Goodlatte
beat Democrat Steve Musselwhite with 60 per-
cent of the vote.

Goodlatte said he supports Senate candidate
Oliver North. Goodlatte said that challenger
Marshall Coleman invited him to a North rally
six years ago.

The speech was sponsored by the Contact
Committee, the American Civil Liberties Union
chapter, the Federalist Society, and the
Rutherford Institute. Clyde “Trey” Copeland
’96L, a law school representative of Contact
who interned in Goodlatte’s ofﬁce, said the
speech was educational.

“I think his speech was not just a political,
one-sided ranting, but it was very balanced,”
he said.

Goodlatte said he has limited his own terms.

“The longer somebody stays in Washing-
ton, the more they become part of that inside the
Beltway scene, the more they become detached
and removed from their constituents, the less
likely they are to be responsive to new ideas,”
Goodlatte said.

“And term limits has the effect of constantly

bringing into the Congress people who have A

other life experiences.”

Women’s Rush gets 148 sign-ups

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

There are 186 women in the
freshman class and 148 have regis-
tered for Sorority Rush. Last year,
150 women registered.

‘ Sorority Rush began on Sun-

day, October 30, with sign-up in
the Evans Dining Hall. Women
can turn registration forms until
Monday, November 27.

1 Katie Stephens, the Vice-Presi-

dent of Panhellenic Council, said
“we are expecting more women to
sign up, including some upperclass-
man.”

Since the sign-up, limited con-

tact has been in place.

“Limited contact means the up-
perclassman can’t initiate contact
with the freshman.”

Accidental contact between
freshmen and upperclassmen is not
in violation of the limited contact
rules. Saying hello on the Hill or
discussing a shared class will also
not be considered contact. Stephens
said the penalty for violating the
limited contact rules varies, de-
pending on the circumstances.

Stephens said there are no ma-
jor changes in Rush this year, other
than the grade release. Some
women will then be cut from those
sororities requiring a GPA. above
the 2.0 G.P.A. required to Rush,

but Stephens stressed that they
would not be totally released from
Rush.

“Some sororities require a
higher one to pledge,” said
Stephens and because of this, “there
will be a grade release after the
first night of Rush.”

Kit Dodds, head Rho Chi, said
one of the goals of this year’s Rush
is to involve the Rho Chis more.

“We are trying to give the coun-
selors more training and get them
more involved [in the Rush pro-
cess],” said Dodds.

Dodds, who has been a Rho Chi
for the past two years, said every
Rush is different and presents dif-
ficult situations. Her experience in

being a Rho Chi has allowed her to
help the other Rho Chis prepare for
these situations this year. She de-
clined to elaborate on speciﬁc situ-
ations. ‘

Dodds said she became a Rho
Chi because the program is very
important and can have a huge
impact on Rush.

“The Rho Chi is there to be
objective, and be there for the fresh-
men to talk to if they ’re confused.”

Dodds emphasized that the
freshmen should not worry about
[Rush] because, everything will
work out.

“The freshmen should get to
know each other and just be fresh-
men,” said Stephens.

 

 I

Twblyil

    

 

I to» by Bruce \-It/Ker, courtesyiofllfoglue

eaves Lex

He will return in spring to the house he purchased

By ALEX CHRISTENSEN
Phi Staff Writer

Inﬂuential contemporary painter Cy Twombly, born in Lexington when his father was
Washington and Lee’s athletic director, has purchased a Lexington house, where he is looking to

build a permanent studio.

Often referred to as the heir of such greats as Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning,
Twombly’s style is classified as abstract expressionism.

Twombly spent much of September and October here at his new home, alternating between
Lexington and New York City, where his retrospective show is being held at the Museum of
Modern Art. Twombly also has three residences in Italy.

The artist has worked in Lexington before, renting warehouse space here last spring in order

to finish a painting.

“He has been really good about supporting local artists and attending their shows when he has
been here,” said Dr. Pamela Simpson of the Art Department. Twombly has attended openings and
even helped to hang paintings for local artists’ shows.

“It really means a lot to local artists to have the support of such an important ﬁgure,”

said Simpson.

Twombly left for Europe at the end of October and is expected to return to Lexington in

the spring.

Drinking until busted

The Controlled Drinking Experiment shows B.A.C

By KATHRYN MAYURNIK
Phi Staff Writer

On Wednesday, October 26, the General
Headquarters restaurant housed the biggest
drinking contest since Tear Night.

It had all of the basic elements of a Washing-
ton and Lee fraternity party-music, funnels,
and a lot of Natural Light. However, the fact
that Mike Young, Director of Security, was
present with a breathalizer, and there was no
stampede for the door, indicates that this was no
ordinary party. Rather, it was the Controlled
Drinking Experiment, sponsored and run by the
Peer Counselors.

Anyone twenty-one or older could partici-
pate in the experiment, which entailed drinking
one beer every fifteen minutes, after which a
breathalizer test was given. One of the pur-
poses of the evening was to show students at
which point they have reached the Blood Alco-
hol Content of .02, which is a full DUI for
persons under twenty-one, and the BAC of .08,
which is legally-drunk for everyone else. To
avoid an out-of-control situation, a person’s
alcohol was cut off once they reached .06.

Dr. James Worth, a psychologist at W&L,
explained the merits of the experiment. “This

is a good oportunity for students to learn how a
particular BAC feels,” Worth said. “They
might think they feel fine and have not had
much to drink, but their BAC could be higher
than they think.”

Worth was more worried about reducing
alcohol use than eliminating it altogether.

“I realize that drinking is an embedded as-
pect of college life, and I don’t condemn it.
What frightens me is that that so much exces-
sive and high risk drinking goes on. According
to a 1993 poll, 69% of W&L students have
experienced a blackout. People need to drink
more responsibly and at lower risk.”

The experiment also showed how several
factors attribute to a BAC, the main ones being
weight, gender, and the amount of food in the
stomach. The person with the highest BAC was
a female who hadn’t had dinner, and the person
who held out the longest was a male whose
weight played a factor.

By attaching a condom to the end of a funnel
and pouring a few beers down it, Young dem-
onstrated the dangers of funneling. “If I see any
of these, I will take them away. These will kill,”
Young said. “When I threatened to take one
away from a young man, he threatened to sue
me for violating his civil rights. I told him that
I’d call his mother.”

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi. November 4. 1994

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World 

Saudis turn down bank proposal

Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations refused to support a proposal by
the Clinton Administration for a multibillion-dollar development bank for
the Middle East. The countries argued at an economic conference in
Morocco that their own economic problems made it difﬁcult to devote the
necessary funds to the bank. The US has made several requests for
ﬁnancial commitments from Saudi Arabia, which has been running budget
deﬁcits of $10 billion a year. US ofﬁcials remain confident that there will
eventually be a bank, in spite of objections from the Arabs.

Scandal shake up Russian military

Recent corruption scandals have disrupted Russia’s military establish-
ment. President Boris Yeltsin dismissed on Tuesday a deputy defense
minister, who, along with other Russian ofﬁcers, had been accused of the
illegal sale of millions of dollars of Government property which was to be
brought back to Russia. Other instances, including the death of a Russian
journalist investigating corruption among army officers and the purchase
of Mercedes sedans from illegal funds, have other Russian ofﬁcers
campaigning to keep their jobs.

Burning ﬂoods kill 200 in Egypt

At least 200 Egyptians were killed Wednesday when an explosions sent
ﬂoods of blazing fuel through the streets of a small village. Storms and
ﬂash ﬂoods caused a bridge to collapse over a military fuel complex 200
miles south of Cairo. The collapse toppled fuel tanks, setting off an
explosion encompassing 15,000 tons of motor and aircraft fuel. Floodwa-
ters spread the burning fuel through streets, causing thousands of survivors

to seek refuge in the nearby capital of Asyut.
' U
 
., ~,_ ,.

The Nation

White House shooting suspect charged

   

 

Federal officials charged a Colorado man Sunday with felony counts for
shooting up the White House with riﬂe fire. After much debate, they
decided not to charge Francisco Duran with attempted assassination of the
President. Duran was arraigned on Monday with charges of willfully
damaging government property and violation of laws that prohibit a
convicted felon of possessing a weapon. Duran was convicted in 1991 of
aggravated assault with a vehicle and drunk and disorderly conduct.
Authorities say Duran has given them few clues to the case and is refusing
to talk with them.

Report condemns CIA’s ineptitude in spy
case

A 116-page report by the Senate Select Committee said that the CIA’s
hunt for convicted spy Aldrich Ames was thrown off the track by Soviet
deception and the ineptitude of the CIA. Ames sold secrets to the Soviet
Union from 1985 until his arrest this February. Soviet spies gave false
information to the CIA, who believed most of it. For seven years the CIA
did not seek aid or share information with the FBl’s spy detectors, but
instead chose to study its old files instead of seeking new information about
why its best Soviet agents were being murdered.

Hill convicted in abortion shooting

A Florida jury took just 20 minutes to convict former minister Paul Hill
of murder in the slayings of an abortion doctor and his bodyguard. Hill
could receive a sentence of life in prison or death in the electric chair. Hill
acted as his own lawyer and offered no defense during his three day trial.
In October, Hill became the ﬁrst person convicted of violating the new
federal law against harassing or using violence against those entering
abortion clinics.

The State 4;;

North and Robb trade insults as election day
draws near

Both Charles Robb and Oliver North traded insults Wednesday, the
beginning of the last week before the Senate election. At a campaign stop
in Woodridge, Robb criticized North’s no new taxes pledge as being
irresponsible and likely to cause mistrust of the government. That same
day, North accused Robb of doing nothing for Virginians except raising
their taxes. North attended a College Republicans meeting at UVA, which
was also attended by a large crowd of anti-North demonstrators.

Mary Washington faculty votes to give ben-
efits to unmarried partners

Faculty members at Mary Washington College voiced their support
Wednesday night for extending health benefits to the live-in partners of
homosexual and heterosexual employees of the college. The faculty is now
asking the Faculty Senate of Virginia to support their efforts to extend these
beneﬁts. Doing so would require revision of a statewide policy. Currently
206 American institutions of higher learning offer these health beneﬁts to
unmarried partners of faculty.

The C ampus 
Freshman dorm rooms robbed

Several rooms in Graham—Lees dormitory were burglarized over the
weekend. Between $200 and $300 was stolen from Jon Bayer's room and
$30 was stolen from Kelley Dyer's room. Neither freshman had locked
their rooms. Nothing else was stolen. W&L Director of Security Mike
Young said there are no leads or suspects in the case.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

x

Te vantages of a small school

 
      

V hoto by Betsy Green, The mg—tum Phi

Washington and Lee students wait in line for the Registar’s office on Monday morning in order to guarantee a spot
in the class of their choice. Many students were frustrated by the long lines and wait in the cold of the morning.

North wins W&L ock eeti

By MICHAEL Hewusrr
Phi Staff Writer

Oliver North won the Virginia Sen-
ate race —- at least according to Wash-
ington and Lee students. »

The Mock Election was held on
Friday, October 28 from 10 a.m. to 3
p.m. and 224 students voted in the
election. North won by 58.9 percent,
Robb received 28.6 percent, and
Coleman received 12.5 percent.

College Republican president Dou-
glas Theissen said he asked the College
Democrat president, Nova Clarke, to
participate in the Mock Election.

He said he made sure that a College
Democrat was always present at the
election booth. He and Clarke verified

said, “and we’re very excited to
have Oliver North win big in this
changing environment.”

He said North’s victory proves that
even in a diverse W&L, conservatives
still win. Thirteen other Mock Election
have gone to North and UVA’s mock
election went to a conservative for the
first time.

“Students all over the state are turn-
ing toward North and W&L is another
example of that,” he said.

Clarke was also happy with
the results.

‘‘I’m quite happy because it shows
that there are some thinking people on
this campus,” she said.

“We’re very pleased with the turn-
out, considering that the faculty could
not vote and Stewart North (North’s
son) could stand (at the voting booth)

   

and counted the ballots. ‘ P
The election results pleased him.
“The College Republicans are happy

with the results becuase the mood of

the campus has been more liberal,” he

for several hours.”

She said the election does not accu-
rately predict how the Virginians will
vote, citing that only a tenth of the
students voted in the election.

    

Photo  Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi I

Two W&L students work the ballot box for the mock Vir-
ginia Senatorial election

Bolden speaks to future lawyers

He warns of changing rules and rewards of law

BY MlCHAEL HEWLETT
Pm STAFF Wrzmzr

Frank Bolden said law students are in for a trick or
treat situation in his speech at Lee Chapel on Octo-
ber 31 at 7 p.m.

“Those of you pursuing law as a route to power are
in for a rude awakening,” he said.

Bolden is Vice President for the Corporate Staff at
Johnson & Johnson, lnc. Prior to this promotion,
Bolden was responsible for all employment relations
matters, including ERISA, labor relations, equal
opportunity and affirmative action for the entire
corporation. Bolden has also served as the
corporations secretary and as a member of its
legal department.

Bolden gave a speech on “How to Make Your
Dream Reality,” which was sponsored by the Black
Law Student Association, Minority Student Asso-
ciation, Women Law Student Association, Contact
and the Federalist Society.

He said the rules and rewards of the game are
changing and businesses are enhancingtheir abilities
in global economy. Businesses are eliminating un-
necessary costs such as legal fees. He cited a friend
who said a company unable to raise prices reviewed
its standing with three law firms and sought to
negotiate the fees. One ﬁrm refused to negotiate, the
second agreed to reduce and the third ﬁrm asked him
what the fee should be.

He said in a nation with one lawyer for every 35
citizens, Americans must ask are there too many
lawyers. He said this has led to increased competition
for young lawyers.

Bolden reassured law students that opportunities

are still available, but it will take more than intelli-
gence, hard work, and a love for law to become
successful. He has talked to his lawyer friends and
came up with ten essentials for law students: integ-
rity, a continued search for knowledge, efficiency,
responsiveness, knowledge of the business, the abil-
ity to build relationships, reliability and quality,
excellent communications and presentation skills,
courage and leadership.

He said young lawyers need to possess some
sense of ethics.

“The profession has taken too many knocks to not
have that standard,” he said.

Bolden said lawyers must keep abreast of changes
in the law and predict in what direction the law will
move. The lawyer also must continually educate
himself about new technology. No longer are corpo-
rate deals conducted in smoke filled rooms but rather
over faxes.

“There’s no place for a new attorney who cannot
capitalize on new technology,” he said.

He said clients must feel comfortable with the
ir lawyer.

“You may write the greatest brief in the world but
if you cannot answer the phone, you may lose their
business,” Bolden said.

Lawyers must also have the courage, orthe ability
and will to say no when the time is required. He said
there are times when there is no way for a lawyer to
do what the client wants.

He said law has become more of a business than
a profession. Promotions are based on merit, loyalty
and value. Lawyers must prove that they will make a
contribution to the law ﬁrm. He said employers look
at an applicant’s grades, resume and interview skills.

He said racism and sexism still exists in the
law profession.

“It is true that to be successful in law,” he said,
“you will have to deal with more than your white
male successors.”

Bolden said most whites are not racists and would
like to eliminate this scourge. Minority and women
lawyers should develop five additional steps for
success: competence, courage, communication, can-
dor and compatibility.

“Americans are good at saying one thing and
meaning another,” he said.

Lawyers should communicate honestly about
problems they see in the workplace. They should also
avoid assumptions and should get the facts.

He said lawyers will succeed much faster if they
learn the culture of the company and if people feel
comfortable with them. He related the story of man
who felt he had not been promoted because he was
black. He suggested that his friend cut his beard off.
When he did, he got the promotion. Asked whether
this placed a heavier burden on blacks, he said it is an
individual choice.

“You will have to draw the line as to where you
think the limits are,” he said.

ln response to a question about the glass ceiling,
he said it does exist.

“You feel it there when you look around and don’t
see any black faces,” he said. “Proving that it’s there
is another matter.”

Bolden received his BA from the University of
Vermont and his MBA from the Columbia Univer-
sity Graduate School. He received his JD from the
Columbia School of Law.

Bolden is chairman ofthe Board at Union County
College and is a member of the Board ofTrustees at
the University of Vermont. A Vietnam war veteran,
he has received numerous meritorious awards for
community service.

IFC gives money to campus, community groups

BY CINDY YOUNG
PHI STAFF WRITER

The lnterfraternity Coucil has re-
cently approved an impressive amount
of donations to beneﬁt various cam-
pus and community affairs.

Habitat for Humanity, a new group
to the Washington and Lee campus,
received a $2,500 donation from the
IFC. This money will help fund the
group’s plans to build a house this
year for a needy family in the Lexing-
ton community, on behalf of the se-
nior class.

The IFC presented the W&L Ath-
letic Department with $425, an
amount that financed the purchase of
a piano. On this piano freshman
Jonathan Riehlwillperforrn the W&L
Swing at a variety of athletic events.

Two $500 donations were also set
aside to fund upcoming campus
programs. A further donation of $400
was contributed to a literary reading
held in the library this past Wednes-
day, entitled “Writer’s Harvest: The
National Reading.” The program is
the country’s largest literary benefit
to combat hunger.

IFC President Kevin Batteh,
contributing not only money but his

reading skills as well, was among the
featured readers.

Why so much money to donate to
charitable causes?

IFC Treasurer Bryan King cites
the much larger Rush participation
this year than in the past.

“Rush ﬁnes certainly helped” as
well, King adds.

Amongother events coming up on
the IFC agenda is a Police Relations
meeting next Thursday afternoon at
4:00 p.m. with the Lexington
Police Department.

This event occurs several times
throughout the year, in order to open
up communications between the

policeand representativesofthecam—
pus fraternities.

Another issue the IFC is currently
considering is the possibility of de-
ferring Rush until Winter Term in
the future. A later Rush is brought up
each year, according to Batteh.

The IFC will organize a commit-
tee of sophomore and junior frater-
nity members to fully consider the
advantages and disadvantages of
postponing Rush.

A final event coming up on the
IFC calendar is a meeting of pledge
class presidents this Thursday,
November 10, to discuss any
pledge concerns.

 

 

ZAPO maRc5 3 rides W

n
1

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

A fraternity with a twist. This is how Paul
Saboe, Service Vice-President, describes Al-
pha Phi Omega.

APO is a national service fraternity that has
maintained the Alpha Beta Tau chapter on
Washington and Lee’s campus for the past
decade. For most of that time, APO was a little
known organization with few participants who
concentrated on weekend, on-campus service
projects. However, this year the brothers (the
traditional term for both the male and female
members) of APO have made, according to
Saboe, great strides in “capturing legitimacy.”

Over Fall Term, APO has become very

sions during home football games this
fall has also been a good fund-raiser
for the group. This year, money raised
is being used to defray the cost.of
traveling to the National APO Con-
ference in Dallas, Texas for four mem-
bers. In September, APO sponsored
another fund—raiser, an ice cream eat-
a-thon, through which about $200 was
raised. However, only half of this
money will be used for convention
travel costs. The other half will soon
be donated to Habitat For Humanity.

The first community project which
APO participated in was l_.exington’s
Safe and Sound Project. Through
this, members were able to landscape
and refurbish portions of the Woods

 

Last year's APO members pose for a year1§’6"6i.‘:“‘°‘°

photo.

Creek Trail, J ordans Point Park, Robinson Park,

    , ‘T/l/@“L1:fe

' h communi g scrvicc pr0'cc

the Panhellenic Council. However,
some APO members would like to

‘fonn a coalition with members of

these two councils in orderto help the
fraternities and sororities coordinate
their service projects.

Throughout October, APO has
been busy with several new service
projects, the first being a tutoring
program at Waddell Elementary
School.

Through this project, twenty stu-
dents dedicate a couple hours per
week to tutoring students in kinder-
garten through ﬁfth grade. Another
local school has also been the target
of an APO project. At Rockbridge
County High School, Saboe has es-
tablished an APO Service Club. The

active. Members began the term helping with
Freshmen Move-In Day. Shortly after, APO
did one of its biggest fund-raisers of the year,
renting dorm refrigerators. Selling conces-

and Brubaker Field.

After the other sixteen fraternities on cam-
pus concluded their Rush, APO’s began, bring-
ing in six new members. This pledge class

Stargate lacks promise

  
    

O:
15.25:

By KIRK SUsoNG
Phi Movie Reviewer

Stargate — in":

Remember theScoobyDoo episodes
where Scooby and Shaggy were joined
by the Harlem Globetrotters, or Batman
and Robin, or even Ma Barker and her
gang?

Maybe you’ve seen old comedies
likeAbbot and Costello Meet Franken-
stein.

Occasionally, mixing different char-
acters and genres makes a ﬁlm fun and
interesting, building on the strength of
each individual theme.

That is clearly what the makers of
Stargate were after— imagine King Tut
meets Buck Rogers meets Conan the
Barbarian. Unfortunately, the whole
doesn’t equal the sum of its parts.

Essentially, the plot revolves around
a ‘stargate’ to another planet, found

Davidson) discovers that Colonel
O’Neill has been given orders to de-
stroy the stargate, to prevent anything
dangerous going back to Earth.
Naturally he gets mad, and in his
anger decides instead to send the bomb
back to Earth. \

But when his once-Egyptian slaves
discover that Ra is just an alien and not
a god, they too want to throw off his
rule.

Toss in a romance between Dr. Jack-
son and a young native girl, and soon
there is a heady running together of
plots, all of which require the defeat of
Ra.

At ﬁrst glance it really seems like
this movie has potential, managing to
mix the historic details of Indiana] ones
with the cool weapons of Star Wars.

But it quickly becomes apparent
that this clever mixture is just about the
only thing this movie has going for it.

The biggest problem is the screen-
play, which hurries along way too
quickly.

There isn’t nearly enough develop-
ment of the plot - it almost seems like
a Star Trek episode expanded to two
hours.

One reason Star Trek can get away

with that is because of the excellent
interplay between characters.

But, Stargate is a one-shot movie,
not a televised serial.

The result is that there is also no
character development, and what could
be excellent roles go unﬁnished.

The acting is not at all bad, but it is
difﬁcult to bring to life characters who
do so much in so little time.

Spader and Russell, though both
decent enough actors, seem like the
cut-outs they are forced to be.

I was pleasantly surprised with the
alien, Ra.

I am not a Jaye Davidson fan (re-
member him from The Crying Game?).

However, he managed to bring a lot
of foreboding and malice to the charac-
ter, despite his soft, feminine features
and very slight build.

For all that the ﬁlm lacks, it defi-
nitely has that old Hollywood magic.
The sets and special effects are ﬁrst
rate.

The costumes are also especially
beautiful, which makes all of director
Roland Emmerich’s shots seems par-
ticularly interesting.

Essentially, Stargate is the kind of
movie that never lives up to its prom-

raises the total membership of the chapter to 36.
Unlike most of the other Greek organizations
on campus, APO issues no bids, is open to all
undergraduate and law students, and is not
accountable to the lnterfratemity Council or

among the Egyp-
tian pyramids.
The American
g 0 v e r n m e n t ,
which owns the
gate itself, send a
team of crack
c o m m a n d o s
through, led by
Colonel Jack
O’Neill (Kurt
Russell) and in-
cluding radical
y o u n g
Egyptologist Dr.
Daniel Jackson
(James Spader).
They discover
an ancient, pow-
erful space alien,
Ra, who long ago

rse.
Its the type of
film which is
never quite as
good as the trail-
ers lead you to be-
lieve.

lts clever mix
of futuristic and
historical styles is
enjoyable and vi-
sually interest-
ing.
Unfortunately
the plot and char-
acters leave much
to be desired.

Those two
things are still the
heart and soul of
any ﬁlm-the rest

ﬂed to Earth from is just decoration.
his dying planet to Stargate isn’t
save himself. a bad choice for a

He built the
stargate to the
other world, sent
thousands of

Sunday evening

video.
However, its

just not worth a

people through it, trip to the theater.
and left Earth (If you are dead
when his Egyptian set on going any-

slaves ﬁnally re-
belled from his
rule.

Ra (Jaye

how, _ see Pulp
Fiction a second
time!)

club is going through a two month trial run.
If the high school students show enough

interest, members of W&L’s APO chapter hope

to do joint service projects with them. Another

 

PAGE 3

project that APO is involved in is helping
Lambda Chi Alpha with its role in the North
American Food Drive. The two chapters are
collecting food for Total Action Against Pov-
erty, an organization that will distribute the
food to local families.

APO’s agenda for the remainder of the fall
term includes volunteering at the Special Olym-
pics at Roanoke College this weekend. In mid-
November, members of APO will go on a
retreat, during which they will plan activities
and projects for winter and spring and terms.
This will include planning activities for the
winter pledge class. This second round of
pledging will take place at the end of January,
and will culminate in APO’s annual semifor-
mal. -

Any students interested in pledging in Janu-
ary or getting involved in any APO project are
invited to attend a weekly APO meeting, held
every Thursday at 8:00 p.m. in the Game Room
of the University Center.

weekend receipts.

$16.7 million, 1 week, 2,033 screens

2. 13.4,. ‘?'.=u..\-.=5.7
$30.6 million, 3 weeks, 1,494 screens

3. elk. §p¢e'ealLsl:-o4
$43.6 million, 4 weeks, 2,363 screens

4. 13.... OM51.--.:3.e
$10.8 million 2 weeks, 1,585 screens

5. ‘In. 125.4 t. N\).u.;.u...2.=5s
$2.58 million, 1 week, 806 screens

6. ‘In. Q'LV¢1' ’\Mu.t-.2.57
$36.8 million, 5 weeks, 1,901 screens

7. lsltue G.:...¢...2.3
$12.9 million, 3 weeks, 1,954 screens

8 /Wu crown‘: /“cw 
$14.5 million, 17 weeks, 1,580 screens

§. gqevrest Guwsp-t|.%
$285.3 million, 17 weeks, 1,580 screens

to. Same <3..u..I.E5.3
$1.53 million, 1 week, 1251 screens

SOURCE: The Associated Press

679;: c7ev\ Wilma

The top movie ticket sales Friday through Sunday, with estimated

'. stareate-Ol§.7 weekend. receipts

   
  

<3.m,.... ‘F>.,...5..I. 13.35.11».

In   ’,Y\¢VV$.  3. OV\V\:..¢ p\'°\A..X
Newspaperrnan retufns to his childhood home after death of his wife.

2 lsike ‘Mater <-qor chocolate.
5., 1.2....-.. $...,..'w.t

Life and recipes on a Mexican Ranch.

:3. “la. <3r.mt. 5., 215;... Ga.-.51....‘

Young boy is privy to a lawyer‘s deadly secret.

4 :91-rest Guwsp. lay Winston Greens

_, _ . .‘ Alabama man's journeys through three decades of American History.
‘ i '5 Nwitkout Qewwru. lay cjenm Giana,

The rescue of prisoners held in North Vietnam.

5. swslllais sense oi: Snow. By (peter }—‘loeg

Investigation of a child's mysterious death.
_ _ 7. /v\'Lgk.l'.n~ares anal 12>.-.5.“

3 Collection of short stories.

I 3. ‘guwginuriwg tk. corporation. by  Hamwwr and
J“... <3L.......,

,4, Business innovation.
‘ 9. 8...... }—t.5'.t, of: }—t'..,t., aFF¢ct'Lv¢ (people,
lay Steven  covey

Guide to personal fuﬁllment.
Io. C2 <3.” 5: ’Y\...t. 5., ’V\/\'.ct..¢t C3.-.5t5t5..

Doctor is wrongly accused of causing the death of a young girl.
SOURCE:Association of American Publishers

5
, 9

Frum glimpses into the trium ins and tragedies of conservatism

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Staff Writer

Newt Gingrich is on the cover of Time magazine. Oliver
North is on the cover of Newsweek. Political scientists are
predicting that Republicans could take over the Congress.
The words "Republican" and "conservative" ﬁll the air
these days. Rush Limbaugh thinks Clinton doesn’t have a
chance for reelection, leaving room for such conservative
luminaries as Dick Cheney, Jack Kemp, Bob Dole, Phil
Gramm and Dan Quayle (dream on Danny boy). The Re-
publicans are having a grand time criticizing the extremes of
leftist politics.

Yet, David Frum, author of Dead Right, suggests the
Republican Party and conservatives in general have some
internal problems to work out.

Frum argues that conservatives have moved away from
their traditional anti-govemment stance. He said conserva-
tives fall into three basic categories: optimist, moralist, and
nationalist. Kemp, Bennett, and Buchanan fall into these
camps respectively.

Optimist conservatives believe that government can pro-
vide incentives to change the immoral behavior of the
underclass.

Optimists such as Kemp propose government sponsored
‘ideas such as enterprise zones and tenant control. If poor
people felt they had a stake in their community, they would
improve their lives, their environment. Kemp acknowl-
edges the failures of Johnson’s War on Poverty but believes
government linked with traditional values can make a dif-

ference. Frum argues t at Kemp forgets that the majority of
people who live in public housing subsist on welfare. Frum
argues that enterprise zones have proven not to work.
School vouchers are another optimist conservative idea that
according to Frum does not work. School vouchers operate
on the notion that if public schools were privatized and
allowed to compete in the free market, education would
improve.

Vouchers would give parents choice in what type of
education they would receive. Although championed by
conservatives, Frum argues that vouchers would not work.
Vouchers uses the free market to answer the question of
what schools will teach. The problem is that vouchers
conflict with the establishment clause of the Constitution
which creates the barrier between state and religion. Frum
further contends there is no evidence that students do better
at private schools than public. Vouchers simply sidestep the
conflicts over values.

Values are a major concern of moralist conservatives.
Bennett and others believe that America has moved away
from its traditional, or what Frum calls bourgeois, values.
He thinks that the major problems of crime and poverty
derive from moral decay. The solution is that the federal
government should use its power to renew traditional val-
ues. If people learn values such as virtue, honesty and
character, social problems will become less vexing. “lf the
society is wholesome, then the instructions broadcast to the
people at the bottom will be wholesome too.”

Probably the most extreme conservatives are nationalists
such as Buchanan. Nationalists contend that immigration
has not only burdened state and local governments with

rising costs in welfare and education but that it has the
frightening possibility of destroying the Anglo-American
character of the nation. In other words American is becom-
ing less European, less white. Nationalists also contend that
America must again become number one. They resort to the
isolationism once rampant in the years after World War II.
In one particularly weak argument, Frum compares this
nationalistic conservatism with multiculturalism. “Nation-
alist conservatism simply imports left-wing identity politics
into a new context.” I found this more than any other
argument particularly hard to swallow.

He makes other less credible arguments. He contends
that Reagan failed to slash federal spending. According to
him, federal spending actually went up, which is true.
However, it should be noted that Reagan spent money on
military while he slashed spending for various social pro-
grams. Frum also believes that the Religious Right does not
exist. If the Religious Right does not exist, somebody please
inform Pat Robertson of this wonderful news.

Frum writes with fervor and urgency as he documents
clearly what the Republican Party must do before the 1996
presidential elections.

Although I disagreed strongly with much of his ideas, I
appreciated his critique of conservatives. Frum gives a
concise picture of what conservatives believe and why they
think a certain way. Always provocative and controversial,
Frum tears away the mask and allows readers to get an inside
glimpse into some of the triumphs and tragedies of conser-
vatism, all the way from its inception to its present and to its
future. Although Frum is dead wrong on many issues, Frum
nonetheless makes Dead Right an interesting read.

Photograph by Jeff Mermelstein
Photo courtesy of Newsweek

 

 

 

W The Ring-tum Phi, November 4,1994
. *1

Colonnade Crossword

 

M=1eR GN\N(7Ti3E E19 i>\cTURE.
\ eeueve Tim we \.t:.ix\iiNe—T\-\i=.-

  Moggg Amps CNER T99 DETNL '
\N°RK1o iii; PRELQ Quckt-:TP~R‘( To\LeT—éEix1'-01> 19502 WOULD E9
 ﬁend U\~1DER\2.<>T\\C°N\N\l\NVi\1\ENTé 1 3:33:31? 8 1 2 3 ‘ 5 '° ’ '° '9 ‘° “ " ‘° I
0  , '  '_ FOUR N40 FNE...NE1<T Q\)E$Ti0N'.7 5 Fools 14 15 1s
* ' .‘ 4." x , ’ ‘ _ *-1:’ 1 “‘ 1%/3‘/oailfrdance '7 '3 ‘9 l
.- M  ‘ ‘-4, R 15P k
' . y - , 16 Mrglreast prince 20 21
ey ‘ 1 »~ I 4   ~  e In
‘ — K ‘T’ 5“ I l L, I ‘ ‘/1 { ~ . 1 PO

 
   
  
 
 
    

 

 

 

 

P'0Y
19 Swerve 27 2a 29
 20 Badger 3
"— 22 Vies 5
L-' 24 Currier's partner
26 Catch -'9 4°
27 Fame
omnmumuoausamm he 31 TOOK five ‘2 43
H5|-oNsR¢WW¢- ‘ ' 35 FOOY IGVBF 45 45
36 Swift
38 "— Got You 49
U d M SK’ "
U FEST“-E5 39 wgri: b)%lKez|irt‘s 52 53 54
OF EH:  40 ghgrstual obiect so 61
Mlogbp L 41 French city 54 65
42 Hush-hush gp.
| |1E 43 Fur 57
UN PUBL C D 44 Gains 68 ’
   Liurry ©13"9%_TrriE>u%e Meq-3 ervices,Inc.
at to ro ress '9 s eserv
49 Sin er F?»/1cgEntire Last weews Pull]? 50lVed
b Jack Ohman 9
Y 51 To — 7 or the
(unanimously) ear
52 Those who 8 Buffalo
6 march 9 Story outline
5 E d d t 10 D ‘
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ' eovgceifrergutexs 11W%TdJ|ostl’hes
61 Have con approval
- SFOR LOWEST AIRFARES CALLS : 63 Da or 12 Competed
' I Sa y 13 Goofs
I I  I  I 64 Before: pref. 21 —- Knievel
: I 25 Valued 23 Bound
6 Bit of 25 Cancel
: YOIQET k tin C t I information 27 Noteworthy
- Airline Reservation ic e g en er . 57 Trueheart period
I 68 Burros 28 Sources of
:   I 69 Loch — news
I 1 I monster 29 Conceptions
I - - 1 ruises - Hote Car ' 30 Noblemen
_ Amtrak Tours C / _ . DOWN 32 Crown
I I 1 Hew 33 incident
I ' J 2 Anticipation 34 Thick 46 Businesses 55 Poses
I Student Discounts May Apply I 3 Displeases 37 Hell ' us 48 Fixes 57 London art
: Monday - Friday 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. : 4 Southwestern pai ' g 50 Locations gallery
. . saloons 40 Aussie capital 52 Braid 58 inspects L
' Saturday 9'30 a°m‘ to 12'30 p'm' : 5 Unfruitful 41 Wooden bucket 53yTops 59 Opponents of
: All Major Credit Cards ACCePtCd I 6 “— Clear 43 Ovule 54 Sunken tracks, Reps.
I ' I Day  44 Mild oath of a kind 62 — whiz!
: 16 W. Washington St. :
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 17S_MainSt_ 463-9730 Hou|'s:Mon-Sat10-5:30

Kelly’s Corner

On Rt. 60 (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington

"The tradition continues”
Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea.,
delicious BBQ.sandwiches $1.39

7-Up, A&W root beer, RC, cream soda-
3 cans / $1.00
Reg. Unleaded Gas - $1 .039/gal.
Unleaded Plus - $1 .109/gal.

Miller Reserve Bottles - $10.99/case
V I  _ limited q_uan/fries
‘ '  " ‘Busch s‘uits- ’- $9.50
one week only

40 lb. ice - $4.99

As Always, We Provide The Best
Service For The W&L Community

On7Da s

      
     
     
   
   
       
   
   
     
    
  

HAIRSTYLIST & TANNERY

For your convenience we are extending our
business hours on Tues. & Thurs. ‘til 8 p.m.
Mon., wed. & Fri. 9-5 Sat. 9-2

        
    

   
  

Stop by or call for an appointment.
25 N. Main St., Lexington 463-6903

463-5452

     

Miles & Sand N e, Proprietors

   

 

 
 
  
  
  

31'.»
I I I I I I I I I I I   _, , I
I TT E I      I {fists Ln Calpots* I
IA - | :**%‘*:T<”5’”° ‘Iﬁe sotution to ﬁoiioag gift
I I v v v v
I I proﬁfems. Gift wrap, UPS sﬁgoping, gjt
I I voucﬁers, advice and ﬁel'_p - Amex, Uisa, and k
I I Mastercarb Weicome
   ‘I \/VEST  VlR(3lNIA 24450
I I 1"
I I ———————————————————————————— "' "
I "V" I F "7.
I I I I I I I
I I

: : 1 « ~
I - I ' '
I I : '
I I |
I Book l 5 with this Coupon 1 ’
I C I Ladies ’ Shoes, Clothing L J!
I - I and Accessories ____________________________ _ ‘ :-
I I
' TUE’ ES '
: I 23  Main St. ’
: : L°"“‘g‘°“’ VA 2.4450 25 s. Jefferson 464-4050
I I Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.
I I

, , . , I — — - — — — — — — — - - — - - - — - - — — — — —— ‘ 1
I I DO You W~anl Credit Cards? : UNI—CARD.BOX 220645.-HOLLYWO0D,FL 33022 4:
I
I : Iowyw mu have me most ncogmud _ :  |want‘MASI‘ERCARDO Immediately. :
 I credit card in the world EVEN IFYOU Ani~l:3gg:.irgEr¢' I 1oo% nunnimtel-:m I .5
I I caeorr or HAVE BEEN nmneo oown . .
I I M9stcrCardO the credit card you I I
- - W-"..?.2.=.:';.;:~ '°-:°°.':..5;2$:.it.*t~:.": - NAME -
I I EMERGENCY msH1—Urrincio<E'Ts—nEsTAuRAms— ' ADDRESS . ' 5.

HorrEis—Mo'rELs—oAs-CAR RENTALS-— ' ' ‘
I I nemns’-mo TO BUILD voun cm-zorr RATINGI : CITY _____._._ STATE _. ZIP _______ I
I '8 I No turn downs! , ‘STUDENT? ‘ E§__ﬂ9_ ss.# :
I I No credit checks! . SIGNATURE I
: : G“P_,.,;%:“‘§’°g‘:Sc\\‘<E No security deposit! : Norm Masie-our Is I ngmemi tndernuk d Masmouu lnlcmnlloml Inc. : A‘
M

' ' rd ORYOUR cR1§§iI¥DcX§§§3l§§°1§qAi?17i?;Yv ' '

 

 

   

PAGE 5

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A viable option to revive
Live Drive

Live Drive has been forced to come to a halt
in the past few weeks due to a lack of student
volunteers. This is both a detriment to the university
community and a danger to the students and the
people on the streets of Lexington. We need an
active Live Drive, a valid option to drunk driving
that works, and everyone in the community should
be involved in affecting this solution. This is
especially true for those of us under 21 who cannot
afford to drive after any drinking. The best option
would be one in which students would ﬂock to
volunteer for this community service, but obviously
that is not happening. We propose the following
alternative: one which would be fair to all involved.
A resource which is clearly going to waste is
students who receive “hours” for violations of
university housing policies. It seems to us that these
students would be better put to use as sober drivers
for their inebriated peers. We feel it is more
important to keep drunk drivers off of the roads than
to have perfectly polished silverware and dust—free
books. This policy could also apply to those who
receive community service hours from the Student '
Conduct Committee or Student-Factulty Hearing
Board; there is no better service to the community

than to keep its members alive.

Quotes of the Week:

“The world full of people who want to play sex games
with you.”

---Professor Edwin C raun, Department of
English
“We don't need morons voting.”

--—A politics student discussion the issue of low
voter turn-out

@112 itling-tum iﬂhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrot!

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

, Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Andrew Scheider

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Ice
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1994

  

Iris «:4

REGISTRATION

H

REGISTRATION FACT 1:1: ‘WERE WILL Aums BE
Someone AMEN? or You

W Lwf.

Term limits violate Voters’ freedom

NOVA

’96

 

Tuesday is the big day, according to
some political pundits, when the anti-
incumbent fervor sweeping the coun-
try will sweep career politicians out of

«_ office. Of course many of those sup-

posed to be swept out of ofﬁce are
Democrats. Do I detect a hint of bias
among those pundits? This brings me
to the point of this column: term limts.
I am against them for two reasons.

First, we already have term limits
guaranteed by the Constitution in this
country. These term limits are called
elections, by which the people can kick
their elected representatives out of of-
ﬁce if they so choose.

Second, I believe that by forcing a
representative out of office at a certain
period we are taking away power from
the people. Also, more importantly, we
are allowing the voters to get off scot
free from having to make tough choices
and actually learn something about the
way politics works.

As to the ﬁrst proposition that there
are already term limits, the Supreme
Court has decided to hear the
Wahsington State case, brought by
Speaker of the House Tom Foley,
against term limits that were adopted
by Washington state.

As an aside for anyone who thinks
politicians are only in politics for their

own advancement and proﬁt, people
should ealize that Tom Foley could
have backed out from bringing this
case. A freshman representative from
Washington offered to bring the case
on behalf of Foley. This was to protect
Foley’s chances of re-election since
bringing a suit against term limits is not
likely to endear him to the voters in an

proposition. I believe that term limits
are essentially a loss of freedom for
voters. Unfortunately, it appears that
voters arewillingtosacriﬁcetheirfree-
dom in order to be excused from the
pressure of actually having to know
anything about government or the
stands their representatives take on any
issues (or even who their representa-
tives are). ,

Here are some examples of just how
uninformed the American voter is: In a
recent Times Mirror survey most

Americans didn’t know who Newt
Gingrich, Dick Gephardt, or Bob
Michel were. Four out of ten Ameri-
cans didn’t know that the Democrats
and not the Republicans control the
Congress (although that may be a fac-
tor of wishful thinking). Then there is
the indecisiveness as to what their rep-
resentative should be doing. Sixty-three

already percent
tough cam- o f
p a i g n . Ameri-
Foley, how-  —'—"——'—-—" cans say
ever, refused that their
to letan one . A re resen-
else bling The P70519773 13 that taptives
the _Suit say; people don’t really want 5 h 0“ 1 d
mg it was his pay more
responsibil- to know about any of attention
"¥- He may these pieces of legislation. *°Wha“S
r losetheelec- . happen-
tion because They.1ust want to go on inginthe
°f this» but with their lives and then °°""W
neverletitbe . than to
said am complam  I 0 ca 1
politicians c o n -
havenoprin- c e r n s.
ciples. H o w -
Now for e v e r ,
the second seventy-

three percent said that their representa-
tives should be trying to bring federal
projects to their district, and 58% said
that their representative should try to
direct more government spending
toward their district. I guess it’s only
bad pork if it’s not in your district.
Actually, one of the most distress-
ing ﬁgures to me was that a third to a
half of those surveyed could not name
a piece of legislation passed by Con-
gress. There really is no excuse for
that, considering these people are prob-

ably being affected by a piece of legis-
lation as you read this. The problem is
that people don’t really want to know
about any of these pieces of legislation.
They just want to go on with their lives
and then complain when their repre-
sentatives votes for something that ends
up affecting them negatively.

People are also voting on character
without really knowing anything about
the issue. A Washington Post survey
revealed that 66% of Virginia voters
were unaware of the position of the
Senate candidates on the issues. I don’t

want to hear any crying when people

start realizing their interests aren’t be-
ing promoted.

This is the reason l’m against tenn
limits. I think voters need to learn about
the issues and actually get involved in
politics. Term limits offer them a way
to escape learning if they know their
represenatives will be out of office in 6
or 8 years. They’ve waited this long-—
What’s a few more years.

Actually, I wonder how many Re-
publicans (their party seems to be more
in favor of term limits) are secretly
cheering on Tom Foley. Newt Gingrich,
who has been in office over ten years,
would never get the chance to fulﬁll
his dreams of being Speaker of the
House if term limits are declared legal:
l’m sure somewhere in the back of
his mind he’s hoping Foley will win
the case.

I hope all of you have either ﬁlled
out absentee ballots or are voting on
Tuesday.

This may be your last chance at
freedom before the chains of tenn lim-
its restrain your right to choose who
should represent you.

North not your average political scum

THE FAR MIDDLE
ALEX CHRISTENSEN

I predicted Ollie North would be president when
I was watching the Iran-Contra hearings in the
summer of ’86. I was ten years old at the time. Maybe
I was a precocious political junkie, but maybe, just
maybe, I am clairvoyant, and see through the dark
veil that hides the future from the prying eyes of
most people.

There was something Reaganesque (not to be
confused with Reaganian) about the way he could
mist up on cue when recounting the operation he ran
which supplied arms to the Ayatollah Khomeini and
funneled the money, against express congressional
sanction, to those freedom-loving Nicaraguan
Contras, simultaneously creating a market for fur-
ther Mideast hostage-taking and spitting on the Con-
stitution. It not only showed that he would do any-
thing to further his own interests, but that he could do
it with flair and drama.

Hey howdy, if that’s not political acumen, I don’t
know what is.

So now good ol’ Ollie, man of the people, friend
to you and me, the man with one plaid shirt, is well
on his way to that goal (sounds of sensible Ameri-
cans laughing wildly and then slitting their throats).

I can hear the North Republicans now, speaking
reassuringly, “Alex, Alex, relax, friend. You’re a
centrist, you’re a moderate, you shouldn’t be fright-
ened by any politician. You claim to listen calmly to
each individual before condemning them.” And to a
certain extent, they are right. However, I reserve the
right to be irrational about Ollie North’s beliefs since
I have so rationally considered his felonious activi-
ties while he worked in the basement of the White
House. They disqualify him for any voice in our

government, much less a Senate seat.

In my view, Ollie North is not a politician, or
anyway not just a politician. He is a dangerous
ideologue in the Ayatollah mold. Perhaps this ex-
plains his afﬁnity for Mr. Khomeini. He is a wild-
eyed zealot who appeals to his constituents with an
almost religious fervor.

(“Alex, there you go again. You’re discriminating
against Ollie North just because he is passionate
about being a Christian! You wouldn’t be complain-
ing if it was Martin Luther King, .lr.!” Yeah, I’ve

tive, but I am saying that ignoring all of this, along
with his court convictions (overturned on technicali-
ties) does disqualify you from being a good conserva-
tive. You then become a dupe.

You also disgrace the name of conservative. There
are many conservative elements in my moderate
belief system, but people like Oliver North, Jerry
Falwell and Pat Robertson (W&L ’50) make people
begin to think conservatism has no redeeming values.
They are the new vanguard of intolerance in America.
They are wrong, and should be disavowed by the right

heard that argument. if they want to be taken
There is a difference. seriously in the public
While King’s follow- square.

ers may have been reli- ‘ C Luckily, things seem
giously devoted to the . to be trending toward
causeofcivilnghts, his How could a genuine SenatorChuck Robb and
arguments could be de- ~ - - his formerly ﬂoundering
fended completely cqnservatlve dlsmlss the Senate campaign. In all
without once mention- dlsavowals 0fN0rth is likelihood, North will be

ing religion, while
North’s always come
back to the basis of

character and his crimi-
nal activities by Ron and

headed home instead of
to the Senate on Nov. 8.
But he will always have

“God said so,” which, Nancy Reagan Norman left a mark on American
in a rational society, is ’ . politics, and on my be-
a_ cop-out and not a jus- Schwarzkopf and Colln liefs aswell. The progress
;;§;j;;,<;';_§°“*"VP""' Powell and still be for this $;;';,:,gg'3;;;;‘,;;9;;:;€

The proof of this be- gap-toothed, fau.x-South» iorsenator has convinced

yond-political ap-
proach lies in North’s
followers. How could
a genuine conservative
dismiss the disavow-
als of Nor1h’s charac-
ter and his criminal activities by Ron and Nancy
Reagan, Norman Schwarzkopf and Colin Powell and
still be for this gap-toothed, faux-Southem Hitler
wannabe? l’m not saying that one can not disagree
with these luminaries and still be a good conserva-

ern Hitler wannabe?

me that Ollie is right
about one thing: the sale
of semi-automaticassault
weapons should never be
banned. As long as our
fellow citizens can be so
easily led by such a dangerous, transparent opportun-
ist, we will need more than handguns to defend
ourselves when they show up en masse on our front
lawns in their ominous blue plaid shirts screaming
for vengeance.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1994

PAGE 6

Poetry provides outlet for sexual energy

GREEN LAND
BE_TSY GREEN

In light of the phenomenal renaissance of interest
in the arts that has been going on at W&L lately, this
week’s edition of my brilliant column will be in the
form of beat poetry of questionable merit. I’m sure
that my beloved sorority sister Sarah Gilbert will love
it. For the full experience, read it in the GHQ while
the wonderful Michelle Richardson offers you
free coffee.

My poem is a fairly recent composition, and it’s all
true except for the parts of it I made up. It’s called
“Abstinence.” Enjoy, and please, drink your
coffee black.

I’m at the weirdest time of my life.

I don’t have a boyfriend (which one of
my friends says is a sign of The Apocalypse.
How I love the way she flatters me)

or a prospect

The last time I was in this position, I was ten.

It’s been depressing the hell out of me.

After watching When Harry Met Sally... twice in
one day

the solution seemed clear.

I have officially vowed to abstain completely

From all thought and activity

Relating to men,

Romance, and especially

Sex.

These things will not even cross my

mind until November 8th, one month
from today.

With any luck, when it’s all over, I will
be cleansed and happy to be me

or whatever.

Later

I never realized how much I think about
sex.

Anything can set me off.

I’m trying to think of new topics of thought:

Some suggestions I’ve received have included wood
working, current events, soap
sculpture, and the fine art of French
cooking.

Thank God I still have to go to class.

If things get rough, I’ll recite lines from The Wizard

of 02.

Later

I went through my CD’s and took out the ones that
might make me think The Unthinkable.

The Wizard of Oz soundtrack remains.

Later

I’m getting varying degrees of support from
my friends.

Steve said, “Right, and Dan wasn’t going to drink
anymore, either.”

Trevor thought it was “Neat, kind of Buddhist—like.”

Jessica is just glad because she gets to keep my Sarah
McLaughlin CD until November 8th.

Most, though, either think I’m kidding

CC *‘*

I ’m at the weirdest time of
my life.

I don’t have a boyfriend
(which one of my friends says
is a sign of the Apocalypse.
How I love the way she ﬂat-
ters me) \

or a prospect

The last time I was in this
position, I was ten.

Its been depressing the hell
out of me.

or wonder why the hell I’m doing this.

Later

Why the hell am I doing this?

Later

I got the urge to make long distance phone calls.

(I get to keep some urges)

My best friend, who I now call Mrs. Ramos,
tried to warn me of the dangers of shutting
myself off

She quoted a song by Simon and Garfunkel to prove
her point and thev’re on the forbidden list, so

I tuned her out.

And what was I thinking when I called my ex
boyfriend?

I guess I wanted to see_what he thought of the idea

He said things to me that would set me back weeks
if I even put them on paper

I told him I’d be happy to discuss those feelings on
November 8th.

Later

I bought a Winnie the Pooh coloring book to occupy
my idle mind.

“Marigold” is a good color for Pooh Bear.

Later

In another attempt to not think about sex

I went to a poetry reading with my friends.

Big mistake.

Why did I not think about the effect that could have
on me?

Why did I not think about what moves most people
to write poetry

(with the exception of this one)

.It’s sex, of course.

(Although a startling amount of the poems were
about deceased grandmothers.)

Later

Ack! Sex is everywhere.

Every time I turn on the TV, there it is.

The huge Americans Don’t Really Have Sex
Survey just came out. _

My geology professor talked about sex in
class today.

I don’t want to think about it.

Later ~

“Follow the yellow brick road! Follow the
yellow brick road!”

Later

I had a dream about sex.

Damn. I can’t control my subconscious.

And now I can’t even think about that cool dream.

Not that I’m thinking now about how cool it was,

Because I’m not.

Really.

Later

A month is a really long time.

A week is a really long time.

A day is a really long time.

Later

Did Iisay a month?

Later

My favorite line from The Wizard of Oz is:

Dorothy: Can I still have my dog?

Cancer Society thanks W&L student volunteers

To the editor:

On behalf of the Rockbridge Com-
munity Unit of the American Cancer
Society, I want to thank over 100 Wash-
ington and Lee students for their assis-
tance and participation in the senventh
annual “Making Strides Against
Cancer” event which took place
last Sunday.

Over $1200 was collected to assist
us in providing programs to prevent

cancer, to continue research, and to
provide service and rehabilitation for
local cancer survivors. Eric Shirley, a
dorm counselor, won the grand prize (a
$40 gift certificate to Southern Inn) for
collecting $176 in pledges prior to
the event.

Thanks to Dean Manning for again
sponsoring the “Sweet Taste of Vic-
tory” contest - 7 of the 11 women on
Tiffany Gagliardi’s hall participated,

and will enjoy lunch at the Willson
Walker house, courtesy of the dean.
Thanks to the entire pledgeclass of
PiKA—theirs was the only male Greek
representation, and they win the $100
prize, courtesy of the IFC.

In particular, these students deserve
special recognition for planning, orga-
nizing, publicizing, and carrying out
the event: Wendy Finelli, Bligh
Wollner, Stefan Neumeister, Yabiz

Sedghi, Kelly Totten, Mary Jo
Mahoney, and members of Chi Omega:
Cambie McConnell, Carrie Southgate,
Lisa Zarek, Kathleen Quirk and Jen
Lynch. On behalf of all those in com-
munity fighting for their lives, a huge
“THANK YOU!”

W. C. “Burr” Datz, Communications
Chair, American Cancer Society,
Rockbridge Community Unit

Advertisement raises question of ethics

To the editor:

The recent inclusion of a pro-life propaganda
pamphlet in the Phi was inappropriate. My conten- _
tion is not a matter of personal preference for the
“Pro-Life” or “Pro-Choice” stance. Rather, I question
the ethics of your journalism.

The Phi is supported by student dollars which are
budgeted by and Executive Committee whose rule of
funding is that the recipients of moneys be ideologi-
cally neutral. The inclusion of partisan literature in
the Phi is a breach of the spirit of this policy.

The pamphlet was not clearly labeled as an adver-
tisement; rather, it was printed in such a way as to
appear a main feature of the paper. It seemed a symbol
of the preferences of the Phi staff, whose opinions
should be relegated only to an Op-Ed page where it is

dismaying.
corrected.

Jonathan VanDyke, ’95

clear that subjective ideas are being presented.

The inclusion of this literature violates the spirit
of a liberal arts college. As a publication at a
university whose mission statement advocates open
discourse and free thought, it is your duty to
provide both sides of an argument.

I realize that the Phi must supplement its uni-
versity funding through outside sources. To accept
advertisements from a partisan group, however, is

I hope that in the future such disparities can be

Editor’s Note: The policy of The Ring-tum Phi is

to accept political ads, but they must be marked as
“Paid Advertisment, ” and they will run at twice the

must be provided enough time to examine them prior
to publishing. ‘

At the Phi, we are faced with meeting the costs of
publishing, and the inclusion of political ads is a
significant supplement to our income.

We do not feel that the inclusion of the ad should
signal our support. In fact, our policy on the editorial
page states, “advertising does not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff ”

We do regret that the ad was not more clearly
marked as advertising but it did say “Paid
Advertisment” across the top of it. We were not able
to proof it before publishing because of time limits.

“University policy on posting notices” proposed

To the editor:

Now that the Freshman elections are over and we have experienced the apex/
nadir of the proliferation of notices plastered on every conceivable brick and
cornice of our campus, we would like to propose a “University Policy on Posting
Notices” that balances the need to inform people with protecting the beauty of our
historic campus.

Therefore, recognizing that we hace no ofﬁcial authority whatsoever, we
present the following with the hope that all member of the Washington and Lee
community will respect the policy:

Notices should not be posted on any part of the Colonnade including
Newcomb Hall and Tucker Hall. The Colonnade is a National Historic Land-
mark. So is Lee Chapel.

Notices should not be posted on the campus walkways. Thispractice of
taping notices on the walkways is a relatively recent “tradition” at Washington
and Lee. Where it came from, we don't know, but we think it is unsightly, messy,
and should be discontinued.

Notices should not be posted on any of the white columns of campus
buildings. Banners and signs for special events could hang from the co-op
columns.

Notices should not be posted at the co-op white tables and chairs or on
the teak benches on campus.

Notices should not be posted on the campus lampposts.
The organization that posts the notices is responsible for removing all
notices when the event is over.

If these guidelines are followed, there should still be ample space to inform
the W&L community of upcoming events including all campus exterior bulletin
boards, the boards in the dormitories, academic buildings, library, Lenfest
Center, Doremus, Dining Hall, etc. In addition to the existing posting areas,
Student Activities Coordinator Michelle Richardson has installed a central
mailbox system in the Univeristy Center to accomodate over 100 Washington
anand Lee clubs and organizations and improve communication. Furthermore,
Bill Elswick, Director of Buildings and Grounds, is exploring additional
exterior posting areas. Also, perhaps the concept that 50 notices posted all over
campus is somehow more effective than a few creative notices posted in key
areas could be re-examined.

In any case, we know that everyone shares our appreciation for the beauty of
our campus and we hope that a more thoughtful and restrained approach to the
posting of notices will be forthcoming.

Non in cautus futuri.

David Howison, Dean of Students
Kevin Webb, President of Student Body

 

Interviews and Photos
By Hans Yao

“‘Why don’twe get drunk and screw?’

by Jimmy Buffett.” the Monsters.”

TALKBACK 

 

 

Ed Dougherty ’98, Evanston, IL - Megan Johnson ’98, Floyd, VA - Justin Laborde ’98, New Orleans,
‘“Bittersweet,’ by Big Head Todd and LA - ‘“Love Hurts,’ by Nazareth.”

Chris Pugsley ’98, Freehold, NJ -
“‘Bump and Grind,’ by R. Kelley.”

cost of a -non-political ad of the same size. The staff ' I

GENERAL

PI
the Studeittliealth Centertfor
~ I The_vaccine_ helps prevent _
: hasminimal side effectslstopby I
. .'§ can Student Health at 8491 f 
' I met information. V

    Eatinglroblem

, Aconfidential support cup
, women students with eating
 lems will meet on Wednesda

ternoons. Cailthe Counseiing.$e _

a vice at X8750 or the Health Certte
at x8401 toireceive additio V
formation. I I

.sr‘s. t°f.x0ur‘;.gradu
questions.»Junior$‘ and ‘So to
encouraged, to attend.

issponsefjied by
71) 301101‘ the

Correction

A mistake was made in the October 28, 1994 issue of
the Ring-tum Phi. John Norman Bator was an initiate
of Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman honor society.

What song title best describes your love life?

   

     

N, . k ‘L

Justin Riedell ’98, Hopewell J unc- Robin Howe ’98, Newcastle, UK -
tion, NY- “‘Do it to me one more “‘Let it Grow,’ by Eric Clapton.”
time,’ by Captain and Tennille.”

 

 

    
 

 

‘I

The Ring-tum Phi, November 4, 1994

1

   

Hams Teeter
MEANS IOW mars

REDUCED PRICES
REG. OR LOW SALT

SMITHFIELD

  

HOUSE OF RAEFORD

TU RKE

SELF-BASTING

LIMIT 2 WITH
ADDITIONAL

REAS ...........O

 
    

FROZEN

PURCHASE

Water Polo enters tourney

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

Irony abounds as the Washington and Lee water polo
squad heads toward the close of another year.

Last weekend saw the Generals upset Princeton 11-5
and Villanova 14-12 while losing to host Slippery Rock
25-12 at the Eastern Water Polo Association playoffs at
Slippery Rock last weekend. The Princeton Tigers en-
tered the weekend ranked 16th nationally, but the W&L
Generals left the weekend ranked 19th.

Coach Remillard was optimistic enetering the touma-
ment as he remarked, “I really thought we had a good
chance of beating Princeton last weekend.”

The irony of all this is that while the Generals are on
track for their best finish ever, they are also on track for
their first losing season.

. With a third place finish in the tournament, the Gen-
erals earned a shot at the competing in the Division I
Eastern Championships at Brown next weekend.

“With a win in the first round, we would be one of the
top eight water polo teams on the east coast,” said head

The Generals had the option of competing in either the
Division III or the Division 1 tournament and Remillard
chose the one at Slippery Rock. The Generals have a shot
at qualifying for the Division I Nationals.

Sophomore Pete Sorenson led the assault last week-
end. Against Princeton, Sorenson had three goals along
with four goals and an assist, and chipped in four more
goals against Slippery Rock.

Junior Rich Cober also served notice for the Generals
with three goals and fourassists against Princeton. Against
Villanova, Cober tallied five more goals. All-American
goalie David Silvester recorded 12 saves against only 5
goals against Princeton.

According to coach Remillard, this is the ﬁrst time
that the Generals have been entered in this tournament in
three years.

“There is no one on this team who has played in it,”
said the coach.

Despite theirlosing record, the squad has come through
with a strong team effort and many of their losses were to
ranked teams.

In a season that has seen every fall sports squad have
a successful season, the water polo team has just followed

 

coach Paige Remillard.

right along.

Tory, Jason have much to
say on football, hockey

\.

  
    

 

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

 

V
ii

  

[lE5IDEN‘|"5i‘C H

 

TOO"/o VALENCIA

0 I

EXTR

ultra laundr

 

  

EXTRA

   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

  
   
  
 
  
 
  

WITH COLOR
__;-————-——<"‘
CONCENTRATED
WASHES u? to I I
MEASURING 5< I
CMITKII: EV! WWII MHULI I WIN :
NET WI‘. -17 OZ. (2 

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

 

TE. ORANGE JUICE

 

ultra laundry detergent

wit I\l|\ iuimi I \IIIt|i)|I'\\'lI|ll \\I)(l)IlII:1lIl Ililllt ~

WITH COLOR-SAFE BLEACH

CONCENTRATED - PHOSPHATE-FREE
wrxsnzs up‘ to :4 nzcu
MEASURING SCOOP
uurnmmnrrmr wmiurswu/:m.n sezuurnaousxatmu

NET WT. -I7 OZ. (2 LB I5 OZ) 1.33 kg

LOADS
DE

EXTRA WHITE
DETERGENT

    
     
  
  
    
    

T 2
OZ.

'99

   

SCENTED
42-47 on WITH
oz, BLEACH

bFro'm EXPOUND, page 8

stormy Soldier Field, Favre led the
“Cardiac Pack” to victory over the lack-
luster Monsters of the Midway. The
retirement of Dick Butkus’s number
failed to inspire former Bandwagon
Boy sub-coach Dave Wannstadt’s
Bears.The Pats and Fins return match-
up failed to live up to the much bally-
hooed expectations. Pac-10 product
Drew Bledsoe was‘stiﬂed by an im-
proving Fin D. The two teams stuck to
a grind-’em-out ground game. Marion
Butts was crunched, while Bernie
Parmalee and Keith Byars ran
roughshod over the “No One State Will
Claim Us” Patriots.One man from
Goshen, NY may never watch the Jets
again according to his pledge that if the
forementioned Jets lost to the dreadful
Colts, he would never watch the “Other
Team That Plays in Giants Stadium”
again, which they accomplished in an

unﬂattering manner.As this column
predicted, the Nittany Lions of Happy
Valley, PA are the number 1 team in
the country, at least in one poll. The
third largest college football crowd in
history witnessed Bobby Engram’s
touchdown catch defeating the Michi-
gan Wolverines, propelling PSU to
number 1. The Lions and Heisman
hopeful Ki’Jana Carter faced a poten-
tially stiff challenge in Ohio State this
weekend. However, a contest was not
to be found. Ki’Jana scored 4 touch-
downs propellingthe Buckeyes to their
worst defeat in 48 years.The ranking
saw a shake-up this weekend as #2
Nebraska and #3 Colorado collided in
Hansenville. Nebraska impressively
defeated the upstart Buffalos, however
they still remain at best the second
strongest team in the country.The
undefeated Duke Blue Devils faced a
reality check when they met the FSU
Seminoles this weekend. The Semi-

noles shocked the Devils, defeating
them impressively. Duke fans, stick to
basketball. For all of the Notre Dame
groupies pervading the campus,‘they
are no longer ranked. However, they
were in fact able to defeat the Midship-
men of Navy. As the ice begins to thaw
in arenas around the nation, NHL su-
per-stars are emigrating to Europe to
keep their skills honed.

In an unfortunate omen of things to
come, NHL stars including the aging
Great One and others are planning to
tour Europe in December indicating
there will be no end to the strike any
time soon. The Express of the Star City
of the South continue to draw hockey

tfaithfuls. They will soon meet the

J ohnstown DarcyChiefs in what should
be a matchup worthy of near—by DuBois
itself. The authors plan to attend many
games in the Roundhouse this season
and we will keep you apprised of ﬁrst-
hand highlights.

  

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

CRANBERRY
COCKTAIL JUICE

2/ oo

 

SELECTED
48 VARIETIES
OZ.
WEEKLY SPECIAL

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

UTIMATE
PIZZAS

2/ oo

-CHEESE
2T -24

-PEPPERONI
OZ

  

‘SAUSAGE
0 DELUXE

PEPSI OR
DIET PEPSI

I2 PK.
12 OZ.
CANS

 

 

SELECTED VARIETIES

CREST
TOOTHPASTE

99

  

6 OZ.
STAND-UP
TUBES OR
6.4 TUBES

WEEKLY SPECIAL

HARRIS TEETER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT

HARRIS TEETER ASSORTED

NON-FAT 3/ O0
YOGURT osz.

'Si”AEii'iI'i>‘A'i'i"“ 279
TAMPON 2°

‘é"fi'5i”r”iI'eE 2/ 00

CHEESE 24

SELECTED VARIETIES

LENDERS

BAGELS "'2>’z':"° O89

OZ.
PRESIDENT'S CHOICE BLUE CORN

TORTILLA

CHIPS J2. o

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE ALL NATURAL 29

SALSA HOT on
PICANTE :sf‘£Ii%z.

Prices Effective Through Nov. 8, I994

Prices In This Ad Elie live Wednesday, November 2 Throu I
(he Right To Limit Quantities. None Sod To Dealers. We Giadly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Only.We Reserve I

h November 8 1994 In our Lexington store

THE RING—TuM PHI.

9 I994 Tmcbera Iriaurnncc arr? Annuity Yioaocialion/Cal/qt Retirement Equitiea F1019.

YEARS OLD AND
WE STILL COME

97

ONCE A WEEK

Valley

.7/Tue"!/a€«,e

w..AnowA‘RE STORES '3

     

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2186

7
l’RI.NClPI.l s of SOL‘.

\

\
N\'I’.S'I"I\'(}

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

Cant afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $138,2o9* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $203 each month
to reach the same goal.

%

Ensuring the future
for those who shape itf“

\

Start planning yourfnture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

Even if you're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve —
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-
ment choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over 1.5 million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not
join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on
your side.

/

*r1.<.mn1[n_i/ rm I/1/r/'r.rI ml: u/' 6'.’/tr t'mh'm} In 'I'I.-I.I Rrlimlmil I-Irr/1/rilint. T514 /‘air Li rr.Ir.ri.m/r/y In .v/mu’ I/Jr /mn':'r and if/_./(rt tr/i'iIrr1/Jrvir/rriiurj. Lmvtr nr /u_'q/Irr rrrfm «wt/ti
;ImiIr:i'( mjv iii"/72'/'i'Irl /'r.ru/Ia. CIREFIE’/'IlV-/ll-I‘AII!-7 are rlrlilri/rutrr) /Iy Tlrlrl-CREI" Irrriinrrlruri 41/117 I/r.vlr'IuI1lImz/ S(Nirr.v.

 

 

Last Week:

WATER POLO-def. Princeton 11-5, Villanova 14-12; lost
to Slippery Rock 25-12
SOCCER (W )- lost Virginia Wesleyan 1-0
(M)-lost to R. Macon 4-0; lost to VMI 4-1
F00’['BAI.L- defeated Bridgewater 28-3

S

@112 ‘ﬂing-mm ilﬁhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL

This Week:

CC- ODAC Champ. at W&L (M&W) (Sat.)
Voi.u.-:YBAi.L- ODAC Tourn. at W&L (starts Fri.)
WATER POLO- Division I Eastern Championships (at

Brown)
F00'l‘BALL- at Guilford

November 4, 1994

enerals’ football crushes Bridgwater squad  

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Staff Writer

The Bridgewater Eagles were

looking for their fourth win in
the last five contests against
Washington and Lee last Satur-

day, and hoped to capture their

first league victory in the pro-
cess.

Not this time.

The Generals were in no
mood for another upset, and
drubbed the Eagles,_28-3 at
Bridgewater’s Jopson ﬁeld be-
fore 1,800 spectators, the largest

crowd to see W&L on the road

this year,

W&L sent them home un-
happy as they triumphed for the
third time in the last four weeks,
improving their record to 3-4

overall and 1-3 in the Old Do-

minion Athletic Conference.
Bridgewater dropped into sole
possession of last place at 0-8

overall; 0-4 in the conference.

Even though the game turned

into a rout, there were no indica-
tions of that beforehand, consid-
ering Bridgewater’s past mark
against the Generals.

W&L head coach Gary Fallon

warned the team before the game
not to take the Eagles lightly.

‘‘I hate that week more than

any other,” he said. “They al-
ways play tough against Wash-
ington and Lee.”

The Genefals didn’t take long

to jump on top. Less than six
minutes into the game, wide re-
ceiver Jake Kimball snared a 13-
yard touchdown pass from quar-
terback Brooks Fischer to give
W&L a 7-0 advantage.

Bridgewater closed the gap to

7-3 with a 40-yard ﬁeld goal, but
Fischer found the end zone from
one yard out to boost the gap to
14-3 at half-time.

“Brooks is starting to blos-

som and is taking over the lead-

Men’s soccer concludes,
uphill battle all the Way

By ERIC SWENSEN
Phi Staff Writer

ership,” Fallon mentioned.

Just as in last week’s game
against Sewanee, the Generals’
defense refused to allow
Bridgewater to get back into the
game in the second half, and the
offense methodically wore out
the Eagles’ defense, ﬁnishing
with a touchdown in each quar-
ter.

Along with Fischer, who ﬁn-
ished 13-22 for 122 yards and
two touchdowns, freshman run-
ning back Seth McKinley and
senior wideout Hayne Hodges
were the main cogs in the W&L
attack.

McKinley continued to sizzle
by topping the 100 yard mark for
the third straight week with a 135
yard effort. The last General to
accomplish that feat was 1985
ODAC Player of the Year Kevin
Weaver.Hodges diced the
Bridgewater secondary,to the
tune of seven catches for 70 yards
for his part of the damage.

McKinley’sone yardTDburst
in the third quarter extended the
margin to 21-3, and William
Propst hauled in a 24 yard touch-
down hurl from Fischeiwith 9:40
remaining in the game to close
the cofﬁn on Bridgewater. The
seniorwide receiverﬁnished with
four receptions for 41 yards and
is currently the leading receiver
in the ODAC.

“We’re playingconsistentball
offensively,” Fallon said. “We
had two twelve play drives for
scores, and we stayed away from
tumoveis.”

While the Generals’ offense
avoided turnovers, the defense
forced them. W&L intercepted
four passes on the afternoon.

Junior Butler Ball picked off
one, as well as having six tackles,
and a ﬁeld goal block. Seniors
Stephen Cox and Jon Wagner
and freshman Chris Watson had
the other picks.

Junior defensive tackle Rob-

ert Hull ravaged Bridgewater for
two sacks and twelve tackles.
Senior linebacker Andrew Coo-
per aided the effort with nine
stops in his ﬁrst start of the year.

The Generals will now be
faced with a road trip to Greens-
boro, North Carolina to meet the
Guilford Quakers. W&L has en-
joyed playing in North Carolina,
as they have won their last four
contests in the state, including a
21-0 shellacking of Guilford in
1992.

This year’s version of the
Quakers differs tremendously
from last year’s 2-8 team, which
edged out the Generals 14-13 in
Lexington. This season, Guilford
is 7-1 overall (3-1 in the ODAC).
However, the Generals can play
spoilers.

A W&L victory Saturday
would knock Guilford out of the
ODAC race and hand the title to
Emory and Henry. The Quakers
lead the series with W&L 4-3.

“Offensively, they ’re the best
people we’ve faced so far,” Fallon
commented. “Their skill people
are very good.” _

The ‘skill players’ Fallon is
referring to are freshman run-

ning back David Heggie, who is ‘

running away with the rushing
title with a total of 963 yards,
sophomore quarterback Santes
Beatty,wholeadsthe ODACwith
1,132 yards passing, and fresh-
man wide receiver Junior Lord,
who is currently second to Propst
in receptions. As if that were not
frightening enough, the Guilford
defense is only allowing a stingy
13.6 points per game.

Despite all this, Fallon thinks
that the Generals as a whole are
now playing the kind of football
they’re capable of playing.

‘‘I’m glad to see we’re gener-
ating offense, and the defense is
staying in there,” he said. “We
can always strive to be even bet-
ter, though.”

Tory and Jason expound upon
everything; football, hockey...

The men’s soccer team concluded what should be viewed as a
pretty successful season on a down note, as they were unable to give
their graduating seniors a win as a going away present, recording a
4-1 loss to the Keydets of VMI. The loss gives the Generals a .500
record at 7-7-2.

The Generals faced an uphill battle from the beginning, as they
played their only game of the year against a Division I team.

Coach Rolf Piranian knew heading into the game what a struggle
it would be for his scrappy but outgunned bunch.

Against Division I teams like VMI, commented Piranian, ‘‘It is
going to be very physical. You either have to get rid of the ball or get
creamed.”

Due to this difference in playing style, Piranian knew that “...our
kids are going to have to make adjustments to play them.”

Coming off a disappointing loss in the Old Dominion Athletic

197th pick, Gus Frerote, and the Wash-
ington Redskins. The Redskins actually
gave the high-ﬂying Birds a contest.
Gus Frerote was mediocre in the matchup,
as the Eagles beat their NFC opponents
for the 5th time in a row in the last minute
of the game. Randall “wanna-be Doug
Williams” Cunningham calmly and
collectedly led the Eagles on a last minute
march setting up Eddie “Money” Murray
to kick the game-winning ﬁeld goal.
The Eagles now sit a pretty 6-2, as
they look to make a run at the Dallas
Cowboys. Buddy Ryan’s homecoming
to Philadelphia this weekend should pro-

allowed Hennan Moore to continue on a  .
second-and-eight play running during OT,
when he was clearly down allowing Jason
“Matthew Carl” Hansen to kick the game
winning ﬁeld goal. (The NFL should look
into adopting the USFL’s rules on instant
replays)

The Brutual Blue look to snap the current
losing streak (the longest since the dreaded
Ray Handley era) against the Band Wagon
Boys in the “Broken Dome” of “Debbie
Does Dallas”.Chargers blew their perfect ,(
record to the horrendous Mile High Broncos
two weeks ago. Even Superman Means
couldn’t overcome Shannon Sharpe and

By TORY Noro AND JAsoN Twi=.i~:ri=.Rs
Phi Staff Writers

This article is going to be longer be-
cause cool-guy Steve Williard, Phi Sports
Editor, slashed us from last week’sedition.
Due to our absence, we have quite a bit to
talk about.

Gary Bettiman, the commissioner of
the NHL, has canceled 10 more games. As
a result, the NHL season will last no more
than70 games. We, of course, are very
perturbed by these recent developments.
However, the NFL season continues as

 
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  

‘A Nebraska” wasi:viiotfiii1.’the A
,”Pac”10 (the othei; : nfer 
if ience in their Rog B0

 

ver the national ‘tit!
The bowl coalitio

   

t  have been as confu
‘ ’g as ever; 

‘ V’ ,Fornow,'Iwiltprete_n
. ‘that there; is/la -chance ii

“to hell of anything gettin

   
  

 looking’forwatd to aptett
 iinexcitigng bowlseaso _

 changed f and justhope it A
i all works I out. ’l‘am;al_s9 

 

 
   

Hilary Martin

Women’s soccer loses heartbreaker to Va. Wesleyan

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

The ride came to an end-for

the W&L women’s soccer team
last Friday against nemesis Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, by another heart-
breakingly close margin.

The only goal of the game
came a bare 26 seconds into the
second half, as the ball managed
to skip through the Generals’

ing distance, but the Marlins’
successful defensive time-con-

ally thought we outplayed them.
No matter how many times I
look back on it, we still did ev-
erything right but score.”

The loss was the second one
goal defeat at the hands of the
Marlins this season, ending the
team’s season at a strong 10-5
record overall (including the tour-

nament), and 6-2 in the ODAC
(not including the tournament).

Looking back at the season,
however, there is little room for
pessimism. This season was
Hathom’s best at W&L, improv-
ing her career record to .500 at
59-59-9 overall and to 34-24-6 in
the ODAC.

For her players, it was equally
successful. The team set or tied
11 records, seven by freshman
phenom Erica Reineke.

lose sight of what we were
there for.

“For the team, we had a really
great season because we had a lot
of depth and skill. We really came
together as a unit, thanks to good
leadership.”

While the team loses forwards
Kait Barton and Anne Spruill
and backs Marina Jackson and
Dasha Hermosilla to graduation

  

and the mean green defense was punish-

their 5th straight game to the “Cats of the

Before this week’s bye week, with Rison

in addition to Lynch, the team’s
wide array of young talent prom-
ises more success.

From the defense of Coyle to
Reineke’s explosive offense, the
Generals look equally potent next
year.

When asked about the future,
Spruill was positive.

“It’s a great team. There’s six

of us graduating, but they’ve got
the depth to ﬁll those spots with-
out a problem,” she said.

agrgﬁfilg"?   A 0 defense and by freshman goalie ‘‘It [the season] has been one Lynch agreed.
 - teed! oif 82:1 :15“ 6).’ thergi Delia Coyle. of those joyrides,” said Hathom. “I think they’ll do very well
I ne way to avoid céﬁfué.  Coyle mafie _16_saves to keep It has been more fun than_ I can next year. This year we hadareal
. A  .. the Generals within quick stnk- put into words, but we did not shot to win the whole,touma-

ment, and I think next year
they've got a good chance,”

i W togéfher‘ iilejid A suming game prevailed once they ‘‘It has been a great year and I Lynch said.
 of ‘wmdmg °9"fu$1«°‘.’:. d5? had the “'89- don’t want it to end.” This season will certainly re-
j.9;Y8"_m°“t0“’ie”h§ §13_t1,°n, Commenting on the game, Senior midﬁelder Jen Lynch main bright in the memory of all
~:mi°- Insiea ; iii.“ 3.53.“ Coach Jan Hathom said, “l re- echoed that assessment, saying, thoseinvolved foryearsto come,

and while some may say that
winning it all is the only true sign
of success, it is clear that the
Generals’ potential began to pay
big dividends this year.

One can only agree with
Coach Hathom as she states un-
equivocally, “lt’s nothing but a
bright future.”

E°"§er1°%°iAT°um%mem’hwhel:eﬂ:h% dmplpedl 3 ‘:0 dﬁcisiﬁlnﬂtg Eric Lindros and the rest of the Phi1adel- duce an intense, penalized, matchup.The decrepitlohn Elway. (Could ESPN kiss this
Ymlll 0 ‘E ' k at°°9t' ‘’'§’".: (32% to ehefgrgﬁkg tageeadxitmvélms for phia Flyers wait to duke it out with Scott Redskins were onawinning streak. They guy’s ass even more?) _ i‘
th: 33“ gages’ 1 ma 6 1 6 "g 3 Stevens and the New Jersey Devils for the defeated the India-no-place Faulks in an Yet they atoned for their lackluster per-
‘ . . . Stanley Cup_ ugly affair. Gus wowedthe DC faithful, formance against the Seattle Seahawks,
They fell behind quickly 2-0 in the first half. The Generals, coveted. . . . d h h h - f th .. t -d 9!.
throughout the year, were able to cut the deﬁcit to 2-1 when Gordon D°r,m Counselor’ “(ans t° "_",eas 15 5"’ . P ' P . {L 9: ~ J - ’
Meeker headed in an excenemcross from Jeb wofford. porior goahtonding ability on the Obviously ‘Vol alum Heath Shuler Gayle Gilbert led the charge in defeating
The Generals, tenacity could not help them overcome an the NHL_Covering two weeks of_ football, should be taking notes from the man Rick MirerandtheSeagulls.Twoweeksago, it
obstacles that they faced, and they gave up two more second-half th_"“k5t° Steve “l“_di°S'ma"” wmlardiwe gmed  $w.° yea‘: a%°’.ﬂ;: Jteriflz Bug/);I?atlﬁ:1rr:t ﬁﬁgglérds from Arizona
is for the 4_1 ﬁnal. will do ourbest to inform our readers. The lantS_ OS Cir 011 ‘S rang 0 g _
goa Eagles wont 1-1 in their battle against the Iron City Steelers. The Big Blue Wreck- played well against the Bandwagon Boys,
 iono sturstato Three weeks agothcy were ing Crew (Giants D) played inspired they still couldn’t overcome Rodney “the
outclassed by the Cowboys, as the team pigskin holding NeilO’Donnel and Earn eternal backup” Peete (who ﬁlled in for the
of  Vveek appeared intimidated by the two-time Su— to 10 points. Unfortunately for the boys woozy Troy Aikman) and Michael X
per Bowl Champs. However, the Eagles from Jerz, Duke QB Dave “costly mis- lrvin.”America’s Team” almost lost to the
‘  » v _  A . _ A 100k f0rWard t0 their rematch in the city of takes” Brown once again lived up to his worst team inthe league, the Crazy Bengals.
Q . brotherly love in November. Randall and name by failing to execute any offensive Jeff Blake and Darney Scott,_out of San
co_ returned with a strongpcrforrnance undertak'ing.and throwing yet another Diego State, put on an aerial display high-
against a hapless Houston Oiler organiza- devastating interception. . lighting the deficiencies of the proclaimed 5
tion. Yet QB Billy Joe Tolliver is our The Giants face the Lions at home Lone Star secondary. The Switzers rallied
favorite NFL player!!! where loyal fans may change the well- to overcome the initial beatdown by the
This is simply because he plays with a remembered chant of “Ray must go” to Ohio tigers. _
lipper of dip—notice when he gets angry “Dave must go”, where if Coach Reeves Two weeks past, in the Buckeye Battle,
how he digs it out and throws it upon the listens we might see Kent Graham or theC1eveland “Mistakeonthe Lake” Browns
tui-f_ The s,w_A_c_ alumnus proclaimed third, emergency, rookie QB Stan White defeated the winless and brutal Cincinnati ~V
upon his return to Texas he would get a from Auburn. If the Giants don’t turn “Embarrassment to all Ohio” Bungles. Eric
tattoo proclaiming his dedication for the things ”around soon, Giants “GM Metcalf once again put on a dazzling show
Big Blue of Houston on his grizzled George ,may call ESPN and request the as'the Browns continue to shock and stir-
rear.During the game, Arkansas Fred services of one, sorely missed and aged, prise. Yet Ex-Giant D-coordinator Bill
Barnett had noariy 200 var-ds‘in receiving, Phil Simms.This past weekend, they lost Bellichek fell to the bust Broncos. ]

Peter S°rens°n ing. Richie K. the Lebanese boxer, Motor City”. benched for missing the bus, literally, the
. , , . coached a mean, game in the face of a BesidesDave “Hey! Return my lNTs Atlanta Falcons losttoWVUalumJeff “Art
0 (“I335 Virginia Ne Freshman, Hllary Manm led Sophomore Peter Sorenson ls desperate Jack Pardee led NFL whipping for 6 points” Brown mistake, the Giants Shell’s Favorite ‘White Boy”’Hostetler and
if iiiibfaskal did“i!v'Pi35?.*i11‘ ‘ii’! the enerals Volleyball team to Steppmg up to the challenge’ and boy, wish instant replay was still part of the the Silver and Black of Oakland.Two weeks
. ‘ " ’ ably 3W1“°Y°“‘°f°"d'"«‘!‘E°“f°’°‘?°° Scored three gcials m the Genet‘ This week the Eagles with Randall NFL. The officials made two costly ago, the “Pack Attack” provided us with '
Ii °ha"lp‘°“ G.“'lf°r°.‘ Wm‘ 14 mus ab’ "pS‘?t°fP"n°°t°"’asw°"aS “scramble” ciinningham and Charlie “it errors. First they claimed that the NJ their obligatory choke, yet this week at
deipitje battling an illness. W&L four £85136 End three itealls. ‘lpast was Secondary smoke» Gamermwened to Giants QB fumbeued on the 1 yard line _ “Se 0
§§i§.§’g.f£’£ .?ii.6ii§nl¥.52 i2'.‘.J§‘ﬁ Zéiiefina iéoi...i’?o‘é‘.§ RFK *0 face a r°°ki<= <i"Wba°'< and W“e"“°W*‘S°"=*"‘Y “°W"- 5°°°““"“°Y ° Ex’ “I 'D’ ‘’“g‘’ 7
ship. . the EWPA Divisional Playoffs. 

9

File Photo ,

 

