' '~w;~.s tr‘;

 my «   A. 

‘.({<§‘SE5.‘:".~7.i¥5.‘.~2“.~':fk’3.Y‘r3f?i'-‘.‘§?

VOLUME 95, NO. 18

By ALEX CHRISTENSEN
Phi Staff Writer

“I’m glad to be here. I feel abit
like the Christians being introduced
to the lions.”

That is how Dean Kenneth
Ruscio, associate dean of the Com-
merce School, opened Tuesday
night’s discussion of winter Rush
in the GHQ. About 40 students
attended, including IFC President
Kevin Batteh, senior. Only four of
them were women. Some faculty
members and Dean of Students
David Howison were also in atten-
dance.

The event lasted from 7:30 un-
til 8:40 p.m., with Dean Ruscio
opening with a formal statement
followed by an informal question-
answer-comment period.

Ruscio’s opening statement
expressed his own personal “dis-
appointment with the way the de-

Gilbert makes farewell to
Universitg and Phi

Page 2 _ breast stroke

Nathan flottle nafl
champ in ZOO

Page 4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

bate has been framed so far.” The
discussion over winter Rush has
been a series of confrontational
moves from each side, the faculty
and supporters of maintaining fall
Rush, said Ruscio, without any
concrete communication between
the two.

However, Ruscio did try to put
forward an argument for winter
Rush, which he personally sup-
ports, while also addressing com-
mon concerns about its
possible effects.

Ruscio began with the proposi-
tions that fraternities are and will
continue to be central to the stu-
dent life of Washington and Lee
and that any form of Rush is “in-
herently undesirable” but unavoid-
able. With those two parameters
established, he proceeded to put
forward the arguments for winter
Rush and against fall Rush.

Fall Rush leaves freshmen
forced to rely solely upon con-
trived meetings with fraternity

members and whatever informa-
tion they can glean from them to
make an extremely important de-
cision, said Ruscio. He said that
while some argued that this was
actually a better way for fratemi-
ties to be presented, he felt that a
more balanced view might emerge
from three months more in which
fraternities and the way they func-
tion could be observed firsthand.
He said that while faculty views
are diverse, he personally would
favor a fairly open contact rule for
fall term under the winter
Rush plan.

He also expressed concerns that
class unity is hampered when stu-
dents are immediately divided up
into little groups and taught sepa-
rate traditions rather than having a
period to develop a sense of
group identity, responsibility
and camaraderie.

As for rebutting arguments
against winter Rush, Ruscio as-
serted that scenarios of increased

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

dirty rush activities and ruthless
competition for pledges underes-
timated the character of W&L stu-
dents. He also said that while
academics might not be too seri-
ously affected by fall Rush, argu-
ments that it was actually benefi-
cial were baseless. Because of con-
cems that fraternities would be
adversely affected ﬁnancially by
winter Rush, Ruscio suggested that
the University might by “sympa-
thetic” to these concerns.

As for student autonomy,
Ruscio said he feels that saying
that fraternities are central to W&L
life and then saying that the deci-
sion on Rush should be left solely
up to the fraternities does not fol-
low logically. He said that the de-
cision is so important to the “ﬂow
and rhythm of university life” that
all members of the community
must be involved in it.

Students then asked questions
and commented on Ruscio’s state-
ment. Ruscio responded where he

MARCH 24, 1995

Ruscio explains faculty View of Rush
Forum in GHQ lets students hear faculty concerns

thought it was necessary. While
most of the questions were techni-
cal, trying to understand Ruscio’s
position, one student received scat-
tered applause when he suggested
that the real problem was not the
scheduling of Rush, but some other
problem that has not been ad-
dressed in the 30 years that this
question has been debated. The
student was unable to articulate
what that problem was. ~

Junior Bill Rust, a member 0
Kappa Sigma and the organizer of
the discussion was pleased with
the results.

“I think it went really well. Dean
Ruscio was very articulate and
brought up a lot of points I hadn’t
heard before. I don’t think that he
changed a lot of minds, but that
really wasn’t the purpose,”
Rust said. «

“ He did succeed in advancing
the debate and setting an example
of how that can be done in a civi-
lized manner.”

Juniors Turbeck, Taylor, and sophomores

Hartman, Rayner, Tye win in runoffs

By Pi-:rE WEISSMAN
Phi Staff Writer

If you wanta high position in student
government at Washington and lee, take a
hint from freshman Mary Jo Mahoney,
sophomore Sasha Hartman and junior
Madeline White: start off as vice president
of your class. Both Mahoney and Hartman
became president of their classes after a
year in the number two spot in this week’s
class officer elections. White became chair-
man of the Student Conduct Committee in
the big four elections earlier this ‘month.

More than half of the students in each
classvoted March 20th. Tumoutwas slightly
lower for the sophomore and junior class
runoff elections Thrusday.

TlienewClassof1996officersarePresi-

dent Preston Miller, Vice Presidents Matt
Smith and Bill Trubeck and Executive Com-
mittee representatives Harris Morrison and
Jesse Taylor. About 58 percent of the junior
class voted in the first election, and about 40
percent voted in the runoff.

The new Class of 1997 officers are Presi-
dent Sasha Hartman, Vice President Steve
Fanning and EC representatives Marcus
Rayner and Steve Tye. About 53 percent of
the sophomore class voted in the first elec-
tion with 49 percent voting in the runoff.

The new Class of 1998 ofﬁcers are Presi-
dent Mary Jo Mahoney, Vice President
Stefan Neumeister, and EC representatives
Chris Baldwin and Z. Taylor Shultz. There
were no runoffs needed in the freshman
elections with 54 percent of the class voting.

The elections could be more important
than some students realize, said the next
next freshman class president, Mahoney.

The president and vice president of each
class serve on the Student Conduct Com-
mittee, which disciplines students for un-
gentlemanly behavior.

“I think people should care who is judg-
ing their peers’ conduct,” Mahoney said.

New Freshman Class EC Representative
Chris Baldwin said that it is important that
students, not administrators, evaluate stu-
dent behavior. ‘

“Being able to put yourself in the shoes
of the accused is also a great asset,”
Baldwin said.

One trend in the election: the four candi-
dates who were leading in the first election
won their runoffs. Only Bill Trubeck came
from behind in the first race to win his
runoff as a junior class vice president.

Past experience as a class ofﬁcer helped
many candidates. Only one officer of th
freshman class, Stefan Neumeister, was not

a class officer this year. Baldwin, the cur-
rent freshman class president, will represent
his class on the EC. Freshman Taylor Shultz
was reelected as an EC representative.

In addition to their SCC duties, class
ofﬁcers said they are looking forward to
planning social events with their classes and
fellow ofﬁcers.

Preston Miller, president-elect of the jun-
ior class, said he wants to organize activites
with Bridge the Gap and Kathekon.

Officers disagreed on whether the tum-
out was strong or weak. New Class of 1997
EC representative Steve Tye said the tum-
out was low and unfortunate.

But Neumeister said W&L has a higher
turnout rate than other colleges.

“I think 50 percent of the class [voting] is
great,” Neumeistersaid. ‘Thestudentsmore
or less have to take it upon themselves
to vote.”

@112 iting-mm iﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

When I was a freshman at Washington and Lee University, I was
a victim of culture shock. I came from Portland, Oregon, hotbed of
liberalism and the “alternative culture,” and at ﬁrst, I did not
understand the South, the invincibility of time-honored traditions
or the ultra-conservatism of this school. Also, I did not understand
the honor code; though I grew up in a very moral household with a
father who is a pastor, I attended public schools where morality was
never an issue. The students at those schools had no sense of pride
in their honor, or their values; they only prided themselves on not
being caught violating any of the various unworkable rules the
school system put in place.

If I can leave this paper, and this school, with any bit of wisdom,
I would leave you with the incredible respect I have acquired for all
of those things which, at ﬁrst, I thought I hated. Because they were
(sic; clliéferent from everything I knew, I initially put up a defense of

s 1 e. -

I have never, however, been a fan of prejudice or snap judgments,
and I soon grew to love the South, love conservatives, love tradi-
tions. And I developed an undying sense of pride in my honor, a
sense of pride which my friends at other schools will never under-
stand. Having been held to an absolute standard of honesty, I
developed a new sense of self-worth in knowing that I have met the
highest standard of honor and not been found wanting. I have, in
essence, undergone the test of ﬁre, and I am a better person for it.

I took a ﬁnal exam once, in a closed room, alone. I had locked the
doors and closed the shades so I would not be disturbed. I had my
books and notes near me in a backpack, and I came upon a question
which I could not answer. I knew that I could ﬁnd the answer in a
matter of seconds in my notes. I knew no one would ever know that
I had cheated. I could do so, turn in my exam, tell no one, and
graduate unscathed. In high school, I would not have had to think
twice. But my sense of honor was too strong, the respect for the grave
of Robert E. Lee a few hundred feet away, if you will, was too great.
I guessed.

The Executive Committee, as the attendant of the honor code and
its accompanying system of absolute compliance, has come under
ﬁre by many students in the past few weeks. Some younger students
have told me the system is flawed. I have argued that it is as perfect
as any system of its kind can be; it is ultimately workable. No other
honor system, at any school, is. And in at least one student, who did
not understand anything when she came, it has instilled the
incredible sense of respect for her own system of values.

Some interviewers ask me if I made the right choice in coming
three thousand miles to school, in a culture that did not understand
me, which I at ﬁrst thought I disliked. Yes, I made the right choice,
and I will leave Washington and Lee a much better person than
when I came.

Please, if I can leave the students of W&L with anything, take my
respect for the honor system. You will never ﬁnd anything else like

@112 iﬁtng-tum lﬂhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editor s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

The Ring-rum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from
advertising and subscription revenues. The Wsahington and Lee Publications Board elects the
executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
Letters, columns and “My Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial
Board. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

Honor System belongs to stu-
dents not Executive Committee

The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1995

To the editor:

Obvious to most on campus, the Executive
Committee has been busy for the past few
weeks. Amidst this activity, we think it is
necessary to explain our position on a
few topics.

When students are found guilty in a closed
earing, they have the choice of leaving and
tarting anew. The conﬁdentiality of our hear-

'ngs gives students a second chance — to go for
pen for a student body jury to decide or to
eave with no scars. On the ﬂip side, however,
ithdrawing students can clamor about the
'njustice of our System, tell an ourtrageous
tory of pure ﬁction, harass those involved —
till walk away. The EC and witnesses shut
their mouths for the good of withdrawing stu-
dents. In return, quilty students often attempt to
disrupt an Honor System theat they could
not handle. .

We have no way to defend ourselves. We
rely on your trust.

We are not looking for sympathy or pats
on the back. We can handle the heat and we
can take the derogatory comments, although
we would prefer your sincere questions.
Howeverrn death threats to the EC and the
harassing of witnesses and jurors not only
the deﬁnition honor, but they are a clear
violation of the guidelines in the
White Book.

If we permit people to break the conﬁ-
dentiality of an Honor Hearing or to harass
those involved, or System would be de-
stroyed by the fear to stand up against dis-
honorable conduct. Do we want you to turn
it in? That’s not the question. This is YOUR

»See HONOR, page 3

Free Yearbooks

Pick up a free copy of the 1992 and 1994
Calyx outside of the Calyx office on the
second floor of the University
Center anytime.

Bikes

The security office still has a number of
student bicycles that were in the Grahm-
Lees laundry room over break. Please stop
by if you are missing your bike.

Information Session

Everyone is invited to an information
session on International and Service Orga-
nizations on Monday, March 27, at 8:00
p.m.in du Pont Auditorium. Alumni Jenni-
fer Bandrowski, 91, Amanda Hughen, 91,
and Gary McCollough, 90, will discuss
their experiences with the Kennedy Center,
Woodruff Arts Center, WorldTeach, Colden
Gate National Park Association, and the
Bill Wilkerson Hearing & Speech Rehabili-
tation Center.

Contact

Contact presents David Frum, author of
Dead Right , on Tuesday, March 28, at 8:00
p.m. in Room 327 of the Commerce School.
His speech is to be titled “The Stakes in 96.”

Media and the Law

Washington and Lee's Media Law Fo-
rum will hold its second Annual Sympo-
sium on Media and the Law, on Thursday,
March 30th, at 4:00 p.m. in the Moot Court-
room at the Law School. There will be a
panel discussion featuring members of the
print and broadcast media and the legal
community about the affect of the media on
the legal process, and media coverage on

the law.

GENERAL
NOTES

The Wedding Banquet

The next presentation of the Wash-
ington and Lee Film Society will be the
witty and charming comedy The Wed-
ding Banquet, directed by Ang Lee.
Screenings will be at 8:05 p.m. on Fri-
day, March 24, and Saturday, March 25,
at the Troubadour Cinema, at the corner
of Main and Henry Streets. As always,
there is no charge for admission. The
ﬁlm is in Chinese, with subtitles.

Workshop

There will be an internship owrkshop
on Thursday, March 30, at 4:00 p.m. in
the Mattingly House Conference Room.
All students are invited to attend.

Internships

There will be an internship weekly
update meeting on Thursday, March 30,
at 5:00 p.m. in Room 108 of the Univer-
sity Center. All students are invited
to attend.

FBI

There will be a presentation by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation of Thurs-
day, March 30th at 4:00 p.m. in Room
114 of the University Center. All stu-
dents are invited to attend.

Phi

The Ring-tum Phi has recently
changed editorial staff, and is looking
for new staff members If you are inter-
ested in writing for the Phi or would like
to get involved on the business end,
come to our weekly meetings in Univer-
sity Center Room 208 at 7:00 p.m.

on Tuesdavs

The Ring-tum Phi, March 24, 1995

u>HONOR, from page 2

Honor System. You are not required to turn
in suspect students; you are not guilty of an
HV if you do not. If you think that a person’s
actions are an insult to the freedoms we
enjoy or damage the spirit of trust on this
campus, let us know. If not, keep it to
yourself. However, every student must real-
ize that the freedoms that we enjoy are a
result of our perception that the System
works. Along with every freedom comes
the responsibility to protect those very free-
doms. By ignoring an Honor Violation, you
weaken the System. Every student genera-
tion determines how dar it wants the System

people who make up the committee. We are
here to do what you want us to do, and will
never do anything that we believe you would
not do yourselves. We neither hunt down
nor look forward to having a closed hearing.
We investigate each case carefully and make
sure there is enough evidence before we
decide on a closed hearing — which can
take about eight hours. An honest mistake is
not an honor violation.

If you have any question or comments,
dropaletterint he comment boxes in thelaw
school, co-op, or library. Talk to an EC
member or send an e-mail. The only way
that we can clear up misperceptions, prob-
lems, or questions is to encouraging. By the

SPORTS

to go. way, we take positive comments, too.

The student body has elected the EC to
take care of an Honor System that belongs
to the students. It does not belong to the

three people on the letterhead or the thirteen

Potted plants have
roots below the surface

The following, of course, is a response to recent allegations that Washington and Lee
women are to be likened to potted plants. I will try not to fall into the trap of generalizing
about the large and diverse body of women at this institution. I think, however, that I can
show by a couple of examples far more interesting observations could be made about W&L
women than their comparisonto potted plants.

My friend B. is not a potted plant. A potted plant does not come home from practice or
a game with a nail torn off and a bruise so heinous that it has drained into her knee, only

to call her father and tell him that prac-
tice went well, that she enjoyed the
MY VIEW
Melissa Sawyer

Sincerely,
Alex M. Cross
Executive Committee Vice President

three-mile run. A potted plant does
not fall asleep in the trainingroomwith
an icepack on" each knee, completely
exhausted from a night of studying
for an economics exam after an
away game. I have never seen a potted plant pull such a balancing act between maintaining
above a 3.0 GPA and never missing a day of her sport.

L. carries around a RCASA beeper to parties, knowing that she both cannot drink and
must be home by midnightin case a victim of sexual assault calls her for help. L. is not a
potted plant who waits around at parties for somebody to talk to her.

S. is not a potted plant either. Every week she drives to Central Elementary School to
pick up 1., a little Rockbridge County boy who communicates by either ﬂicking people off
or flashing a cavity-ridden grin. H., who studies for at least seven hours a day, is not of the
plant species. She is an aspiring doctor who believes that acceptance to medical school is
more important than next weekend’s band parties. M. is a socialite, who values her
popularity on campus. She dresses up to go out and calls at least ten people each day. M.
is not a potted plant though. She is always available to her friend who just had a fight with
a boyfriend, or to the guy who just found out his brother was in an accident.

Women must not be judged only by their interaction with men, just as men are not judged
only by their interaction with women. The women at Washington and Lee perhaps no
longer uphold the traditions of this school in that theylwill be heard, they will be leaders,
the will be vibrant, idea-ﬁlled individuals. They can read poetry as expressively as they
chug a beer, and ought to be recognized for both activities. They are, perhaps, no different
from the women at surrounding colleges, except that they are sometimes persecuted for
encroaching upon the “men’s territories” of athletics, Greek life, student government and
academic leadership.

There is no reason why the W&L community should not be one of mutual respect
between the sexes. The institutional element, the 60-40 ratio, is not necessarily degrading
or oppressive to those already admitted; the lack of sorority houses is not even always
perceived as a negative by women. The professors really cannot afford to uphold a bias
against women in the classroom and most indeed would never choose to do so anyway.

If our attitudes are somewhat pre-forrned by our upbringings, there are ample opportu-
nities for enlightenment. The ﬁrst of these is communication and social interaction,
recognizing that we each may indeed have more depth than a potted plant.

Saralln: Congratulations on a
great year. Good Luclkl 

Last Week:

Men’s Lax drops contest to
Gettysburg for first loss.
Women’s Tennis knock off
Mary Washington.

PAGE 4

SP

(I112 ‘tiling-him iﬁlii

RTS

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK AND FIELD

This Week:

Men’s Lax to face rival
Roanoke

Baseball takes on mory
and Henry

MARCH 24, 1995

Hottle sets pace in 2 beast

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

The men’s swim team ended the year on
a high note, bringing home eight school
records, ﬁve first team All-America awards
and four homorable mention All-Americas.

Nothing could match the honor brought
home by sophomore Nathan Hottle. Hottle
won the national championship in the 200
breast stroke in addition to his ﬁve other
All-American honors.

Head coach Paige Remillard was pleased,
but not necessarily surprised by the results.

“We trained to have that kind of suc-
cess,” remarked Remillard. “We had hoped
for that.”

David Stillman also had a ﬁne showing
ﬁnishing eighth in the 50 freestyle, break-
ing the 13 year old school record and em-
ing him ﬁrst team All-American honors.

Frank Braden earned honorable mention
honors in the 200 and 500 free. ln fact,
Braden’s time in the 500 free rewrote an 18
year old school record.

Both the 400 and 800 freestyle relay
teams all earned All-America status and the
200 free and 400 medley relay teams earned
honorable mention honors.

The 200, 400, and 800 free teams all
broke existing school records. Tony
Diedrich, Stillman, Craig Sears, and Hottle
swam the 200, Stillman, Braden, Sears, and
Diedrich swam the 400 and Diedrich,
Braden, Sears, and Hottle teamed up for the
800 victory.

The last national champion for Remillard
was David Olson who won in the 200 back
in 1989.

When asked if the incredible success
would put any pressure on next year’s squad,
Remillard responded that he didn’t think so.

Remillard was very complimentary of
his athletes, saying, “These guys all paid
their dues in the program.”

He also added, “T 0 go to the National
Championships and come home with a na-
tional champ and ﬁve big ll-America awards
—— you feel good for them.”

Remillard was also impressed with the
fact that all his performers regarded their
relays and the team as extremely important.

“Their driving force was the relays and
the team,” said the coach.

Remillard also added, appropriately,
“They certainly have the right to smile at
their success.”

That is certainly true.

2 iFil:e Photo

This year’s swim team gave Remillard something to smile about with their strong

post-season performance

Lacrosse readies for tough test against Roanoke

By Kenn GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s lacrosse team has risen to its
highest ranking in eight years despite the
team’s ﬁrst loss of the season.

The Generals are currently the #4 team in
Division III lacrosse going into this
Saturday’s showdown with arch-rival
Roanoke College, the nation’s seventh-
ranked team. The game begins at 2:00 on
Wilson Field.

Washington & Lee (5-1) shot over Alfred,
Roanoke, and Denison to the fourth posi-
tion. Ahead of the Generals are defending
national champion Salisbury State in the top
spot, then Gettysburg and Nazareth.

W&L was ranked seventh by the USILA
preseason poll and proceeded to win their
first ﬁve games of the year, matching the
team’s best start since 1980. The Generals
suffered their ﬁrst loss last Saturday, though,
falling 17-13 to second-ranked Gettysburg.

Senior co-captain Scott Mackley scored
three times and is co-leader of the Generals
with 17 goals, tied with junior Ande Jenkins.

The Bullets, though, got ﬁve goals from
sophomore Dave Curry to offset the one
goal/one assist performance from
Gettysburg’s single-season points record-
holder Tim Demore.

W&L’s senior midﬁelder Ty Tydings
registered one goal and three assists, raising
his team-high assists total to 13.

This annual match-up of regional rivals
routinely decides the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference championship. Since W&L
entered the ODAC in 1987, the teams have
combined for seven of eight conference
titles, with the Maroons winning four.

Each school has earned three trips to the
NCAA Division III Touniament in that time
span. In fact, in 1987 both teams were sent
into postseason play and met in the
quarterﬁnals. The Generals avenged the
previous week’s 15-14 double-overtime loss
to the Maroons and won the playoff matchup
19-1 1.

Washington & bee ﬁrst put their I-81
southern neighbors on the Generals’ sched-
ule in 1967.

The ﬁrst nine games were won by W&L,
a Division I power for much of that stretch.
Since Roanoke ﬁrst toppled the Generals in
1978, though, the teams have split their last
18 meetings.

This year, Roanoke (4-2) is out for re-
venge. The Generals (3-0 ODAC) are two-
time defending ODAC champions after hav-
ing taken the last two games between the
schools in a pair of one-goal decisions. Last
season’s loss clearly hurt Roanoke the most.
While W&L was off to a subpar 3-3 start, 1-

1 in the ODAC, the Maroons were cruising
through their early schedule and, having the
advantage of hosting the W&L game,
seemed on their way to becoming league
champions for the eleventh time ever.

With an 1 1-6 lead six minutes away from
victory, Roanoke was stung by ﬁve straight
W&L goals to force overtime. In OT, Jenkins
fed Tydings for the game-winner in one of
the school’s greatest victories ever.

The one-goal difference marked the fifth
occasion a single accurate shot separated
W&L and Roanoke.

Despite their second-place ODAC fin-
ish, the Maroons entered this year as the
fifth-rated team in Division III. With key
returnees such as midﬁelder JJ Blatt (32
goals in ‘94), Roanoke still ﬁgures to be a
toumament contender.

The team’s ﬁrst defeat was a demoraliz-
ing 30-8 beating on their home turf by
Salisbury St., a team some lacrosse observ-
ers feel could rank among the top Division
I schools. They have also lost to current #5
Ohio Wesleyan in a 15-14 overtime thriller.

The Generals, however, have not lost
two in a row in ﬁve years and may be
ﬁelding the school’s best team since their
drop from Division I play following the
1986 season.

After a perfect 5-0 start, W&L traveled
up to Pennsylvania last weekend to face #2
Gettysburg. The Bullets had won the previ-

ous four meetings between the two, includ-
inga 10-7 battle at Rockbridge County High
School last year.

The Generals hung with the #2 team
well, though. W&L made it a 10-8 affair
midway through the third, but four straight
Bullets’ goals put the game away. In fact,
four of Curry’s ﬁve goals came in the ﬁnal
30 minutes.

Freshman Sam Horstrnan, junior Russell
Croft, and senior Andy Dutton contributed
two goals apiece. Jenkins, who leads the
team with 23 points, was held to just one
score, along with juniors Duncan Slidell
and Adam Butterworth.

Gettysburg featured too much speed and
dominated on face-offs, 26-8, in ﬁnishing
with a ﬂourish for the 17-13 win.

The 17 goals were the most allowed by
W&Lsince 1991. Sophomore Doug Gubner
made 18 saves, equaling his career-high, as
his team was outshot 53-34. The Generals,
though, are still just allowing an average of
less than eight goals per game.

Following the Roanoke game, W&L
meets a lesser ODAC opponent at Wilson
Field on Wednesday. The Generals host
Guilford at 3:00, a school they have never
lost to.

The Generals are then off for exams until
they travel to Virginia Wesleyan April 9 to
wrap up their conference schedule and, they
hope, a third straight ODAC championship.

