 

Weekend Weathr  

[Murder and mystery
in the Pit ,...............':._.....,..

"3€!l'*?Ci‘i')1\i,VA

 ‘E’ 1995

JAM$ G. LRVILRN i_l-BRAFW

l..-
FEB

Men's swimming wins“
second place at
southern schools

Cllrt ‘iﬁing-tum {ﬂirt

.>/L ' 
VOLUME 95, No.,)A‘

W&L trustees to
announce new

president today

selection committee, which was made up of members
of the Board of Trustees.

Dr. William J. Watt, who retired last year, headed
the initial search committee and commented that all of
the eleven presented to the board of trustees were
“fine individuals” and “would make great presidents.”

Asked about the big hush, Watt only smiled and
said, “l know the greatest secret on this campus right

BY PHIL CARROTI‘
Phi Staff Writer

The search is over and by the time this is pub-
lished, the secret will have been out. We now have a
new president of Washington and Lee.

Just who will fill the shoes of current president
John Wilson, has been closely guarded.

The trustees will have announced their decision
today at a 2 p.m. ceremony in Lee Chapel.

The presidential search committee, which sifted
through over 130 applications and nominations, rec-
ommended eleven possibilities to the presidential

now.”

President John D. Wilson

File photo

Thomas searches
for the real Lee

BY CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

“When the scholarly dust clears, Lee will remain a hero,” Emory M.
Thomas assured last night’s audience in Northern Auditorium.

The dust to which Thomas refers concerns the ongoing debate between
scholars concerning the actual character of Robert E. Lee, behind his marble
ﬁgure, and has not settled 125 years after his death in 1870.

With his new book due in stores this May, Thomas will contribute to the
academic world the first comprehensive biography on Lee since 1937, and
“scholarly dust” will again rise.

Thomas has already earned himself a distinguished reputation in the
field of history, however.

Born and educated in Richmond, Virginia, Thomas received his under-
graduate degree in the University of Virginia and went on to earn his Ph.D.
from Rice University.

Thomas’ contributions to the ﬁeld of history include Encyclopedia of the
Confederacy, The Confederacy as a Revolutionary Experience, and The
Confederate Nation, 1861-1865, a work to which W&L History Professor
J. Holt Merchant, Jr. refers as “the best synthesis of the history of the
Confederacy [to date].” Thomas is now Regents Professor of History at the
University of Georgia, where he has taught since 1967.

In his speech entitled “Rethinking Robert E. Lee,” Thomas spoke first of
the two traditional -and opposing- images of Lee: that of the pious saint
carved in marble and of the insecure man full of complexities and inner
weakness.

“Somewhere between the two images,” Thomas believes, “walks the

The Presidential Search Committee met a few
times beginning in May and through the summer to
review applications and ultimately choose the eleven
individuals for presentation to the Board of Trustees
and the Presidential Selection Committee.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

The world is my classroom

Phot by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Professors opened the doors and led discussions outside this week as the weather turned
surprisingly warm. The temperature reached a pleasant 71 degrees.

American society
inhibits participation,
says Guinier

BY MICHAEI. Hswusrr ..
Phi Staff Writer

American society operates on a winner
takes all mentality that undermines the
true purpose of a participatory democ-
racy, said Lani Guinier Thursday night.

“We approach it as a game, a
blame game.”

Guinier spoke in Lee Chapel as part of
Black History Month. Her speech was
sponsored by the Minority Student Asso-
ciation, the Black Law Students Associa-
tion, the American Civil Liberties Union
and the Politics department. Two years
ago, President Clinton nominated Guinier
to assistant Attorney General for the Civil
Rights Division of the Department of J us-
tice. Amidst controversy over her legal
writings, Clinton withdrew her nomina-
tion before she aired her views for the
Senate Conﬁrmation Committee. Guinier
graduated from Radcliffe College and Yale
University Law School and has written a
book entitled The Tyranny of the Major-
ity: Fundamental Fairness in Represen-
tative Democracy.

She said society is still divided be-
tween blacks and whites, just as the Kemer
Commission announced 30 years ago.
Racial discrimination is treated as if it
only affects individuals. Racial discrimi-
nation, however, means reduced opportu-
nities for minorities and women. Because
civil rights are treated this way, she said
it’s not surprising that no one wants to talk
about the issue.

Americans believe in rewarding win-
ners and punishing losers, she said. The
poor are told that they deserve their status
because of their lack of character. Win-
ners are not held accountable to anyone
but themselves. Guinier said this is dan-
gerous and divides Americans into “Us
vs. Them.”

“If the rules favor us, then the them
may play another game,” she said. “When
we don’t play fair, the losers decide to find
their own perverse way to level the play-
ing field.”

In the inner-cities, people who see the
unfairness of the system will say, “If you
don’t give me the sneakers, I’ll shoot
you.” She said this is their version of
personal responsibility in which the ends

justify the means.

Guinier said Americans may have
pushed too far for rugged individualism
and personal responsibility.

“Our social Darwinism may have
worked too well.”

Americans end up playing a game
where everybody loses, she said. Politi-
cians also play this game by personalizing
arguments and presenting extreme posi-
tions as mainstream. She said politicians
engage in drive-by debate where the other
person is always wrong.

The measure of a democracy is the
quality of the public discourse, but Ameri-
can society doesn’t give everybody an
equal voice, she said. Guinier believed
society needs to rethink its ideas about
participatory democracy. She advocated
a positive-sum democracy where winners
and losers have something to gain.

Some of her ideas that were vilified as
anti-democratic were simply a way of
describing positive-sum games in elect-
ing representatives, she said. She said her
ideas were designed to empower political
minorities, and some of them have been
used to empower Republicans in a Demo-
cratic majority.

She said she was not against majority
rule, but she worried about a system where
the majority gets all the power all the time
and the political minority always loses.
She cited cumulative voting as a way to
achieve a positive-sum democracy. In
cumulative voting, a shareholderin acom-
pany, for example, would get ﬁve votes
and use those votes in any combination he
wanted. In this way, a politically cohesive
minority who vote strategically can never
be denied a representative if there are
enough seats. She said cumulative votin g
allows a racial minority to plump all the
votes on a candidate if they chose. It also
allows for transracial voting. In the end,
she said everyone gets represented by
someone they voted for—not someone
they voted against.

At the end of her speech, she quoted
West African writer, Chinua Achebe.

“The poet who is not in trouble with the
King is in trouble with her work.”

She hoped the upcoming generation
will confront honestly the issues so that no
one will be in trouble with their work.

  

_Lanj Guinier

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Possible nominee
speaks to law school  

BY SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

Espousing a platform of public morality, belief in an all-powerful God, and
the resurrection of the marriage-based family, Dr. Alan Keyes spoke to
students Feb. 21 at the Washington and Lee University School of Law. .

Keyes, who might run for United States president in 1996 on the Republi-
can ticket, was appointed by Ronald Reagan to the State Department, and hosts
a Baltimore radio talk show. He was a recent U.S. Senate candidate in
Maryland.

He spoke on the topic of “Government v. The People: Achieving a Balance
of Power.” Quoting extensively from James Madison, Thomas Jefferson, and
French political philosophers, Keyes eloquently expounded his philosophy of
the role of government in society.

Keyes felt that, though extensive governmental control is never the goal,
government must often step in to keep the country in order.

“If the people cannot control themselves, the government must enforce
control,” he said. He felt that, for instance, drug control laws are necessary in
a society in which people cannot control their own habits, but if the people are
able to establish a public morality, we will eventually be able to eliminate laws
against drugs.

The way toward this morality, Keyes said, is the reinforcement of the
marriage-based family, which is the key to advancement of society.

When asked about his view of the role of the conservative black in the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Keyes said that
the conservative black people have no interest in the organization.

 

FEBRUARY 24, 1995

 

' true Lee.” This is the Lee in which Thomas is interested, and about which
he has written his book.

Thomas adds to the characteristic solemnity and sternness with which
Lee is traditionally portrayed a “tremendous sense of humor.” Thomas’ Lee
“was keenly aware of the absurdity of the human condition, and thought it
was wonderful.”

For evidence of the sense of humor with which Lee entertained himself
and his acquaintances, Thomas turns to Lee’s letters.

One revealing letter is that written by Lee in 1835, while participating in
a survey expedition of land near Lake Erie. ln the letter, Lee recounts to a
friend in Washington his committing of -in Thomas’s words- “a casual
murder and theft in an act of trespass” of a nearby lighthouse.

The letter caused great anguish to Douglas Freeman, whose biography
preserves about Lee the heroic legend still deeply rooted in the American
mind. Freeman was never able to accept the letter, and, as best he could,
adapted and often ignored the entire episode.

A later historian finally solved the mysterious letter, detecting under-
neath Lee’s descriptions an imagination and sense of humor. The individual
(a'"damn Canadian snake”) whom Lee admits to killing has now been

ascertained as just that, a snake. The lighthouse, furthermore, had long been aban-
doned, invalidating any charges of trespass.

Thomas explains the confusion by concluding that “Lee had a much better sense of
humor than did Douglas Freeman.”

This sense of humorwhich ﬁlters into Lee’s letters may well have been what enabled
Lee to cope with the disasters he had to face throughout his life, both on a military and
personal level.

Throughout his lifetime, Lee ultimately faced not only massive military defeats,
which Thomas attributes much less to Lee than to those he worked with, but also the
heartbreak of a family plagued by disease, wartime imprisonment and death.

Despite the many tragedies that confronted Lee throughout his life, however, he
never surrendered to despair. He “really never lost sight of his perspective,” Thomas
stresses, maintaining instead his “comic vision of life.”

Lee perhaps offered his greatest gift to the human spirit in his ability to withstand
“an incredible series of pain and adverse circumstances to him and to people he loved.”

While still feeling responsible for such bitter difficulties, Robert E. Lee “knew he
could rise above them, and be the man he was and had worked so hard to become.”
Emory Thomas’ upcoming book promises to offer the most advanced understanding
to date of just who that man was, and what he became.

“Mylie Evers (the new president of NAACP) told everyone she was going
to turn the organization around, with a new agenda, and then said they were
going to be the cat’s paw of the Democratic liberal agenda in Washington,”
Keyes said. “But that’s just what they have always done.

‘‘If she really wanted to turn the NAACP around, she would work toward
solving the one thing that will really effect the advancement of colored people,
which is...the resurrection of the marriage-based family.”

He also believes that Jefferson’s references to God reinforce the elimina-
tion of the Roe v. Wade doctrine of legalized abortions.

“lt’s so obvious that he believed in an all-powerful creator. If you will look
at the philosophers Jefferson was reading at the time, you will find that they
did not refer to the creation of man in the same way Jefferson did. They were
writipg that all people were born equal, and he said that all men were created,
equa .

“lt’s ridiculous. lfl told you that I was going to make a law that you could
not eat pork, but left it up to you to decide what pork was, l would be doing
nothing. It is the same idea with those who say that they can decide at what
point humanity begins. Who has the power to say who is human and who is
not?”

PAGE 2 S The Ring-tum Phi, Februg_r_v_ 24, 1995
3‘

Prof. Simpson
selected for
faculty award

From STAFF Rrzroms

Pamela H. Simpson, Professor of joined the W&Lfaculty in 1973. From
Art History at 1981t01986,she
Washington and sewed as assis-
Lee, has been tant and associ-
nameda1995 Out- ate dean of the

        

standing Faculty college (of arts
Award recipient andsciences)and
by the Virginia is now the head
Council of Higher of the department
Education. of art. >‘
She is one of 11 She has done
faculty members extensive re-
from across the searchonhistoric
state who will be architecture, es-
honored at a - pecially in Lex- ,
cial awards — ' ton and
quet ceremony in c k b r i d g e
Richmond on Count and is
Tuesday, Feb. 21. co-au of The
The Outstand- Architecture of
in g Faculty Historic Lexing- "
Awards program ton and over a
is one w in A dozen refereed
which the m- "" "  articles in her
monwealthofVir- lmpson ﬁeld of special-

0
ginia recognizes ization. She has E e B  §
excellent teaching, research, and pub— served as president of the Southeastern m.  r

lic service being performed by faculty College Art Conference, two terms on Q
in its colleges and universities. the board and one term as second vice a e S I e  
The Council of Higher Education president of the Vernacular Architec- J % Z  I].
gave the award to Simpson based on ture Forum, editor of the Southeastern
her outstanding professional contribu— Art Review, and is on the board of the 7
ast

tions made to W&L and to Virginia. Southe ern Society of From STAFF REp()R'1s
An American art historian, Simpson Architectural Historians.

   

A burst of brass jazz and classical music from Empire Brass will wrap up the
Washington and Lee Concert Guild season. It will be held on Sunday, Feb. 2 }
at 3 p.m.

Empire Brass is one of the top brass quintets in North America because of their
diverse repertoire. Their selections for the concert will include works by Bach,
Bizet, Rossini, Copland, Berstien, and a selection of jazz favorites from Duke
Ellington, Fats Waller, and Jelly Roll Morton, among others.

Empire Brass consists of Rolf Smedvig and Jeffrey Curnow, trumpeters; Eric r
Ruske, French hornist; R. Douglas Wright, trombonist; and Kenneth Amis, tuba
player. For the W&L conference, they will be joined by Robert D.
Leidhecker, percussionist. — '

ln addition to tours of the United States, the group tours the Far East annually
and performs regularly in England, Europe, and Russia. The ensemble has pla d

 

  
 
  

 

entation and Human rights in Roman
Catholic Discourse,” a work in

F9-11°)’ the Chicago Symphony, Boston Symphony, Philadelphia Orchestra, Natio

Dress Symphony, New York Philharmonic, St. Louis Symphony and the Dallas

“contract Symphony. The Empire Brass has served as faculty quintet-in-residence at

Workers» Bostop Univerzity fort 150 yeiars. I;199l1’,Ait bggan a rtier:/[N appointment as visiting
consu tants in rass a n on’s oya ca emy o usrc.

help to They have also recorded numerous albums for Telarc, Angel/EMI, and CBS/

construct Sony Records. ,

the Parts Tickets for the concert can be obtained by calling the Lenfest Box Office at

which will (703) 463-8000. Following the concert there will be a special reception in the

become , — . , ~ Lenfest lobby open to the general public.

“Um?  of °

 Soirée Theologran to speak on
Parisienne” 0 0
  intime for tenslons 1n the Roman

the Fancy 0

Dress ball Cathollc Church

March 3.

This will From STAFF REPORTS

b th

Sgth e Tensions in the Roman Catholic of Rochester, New York. He received
Church will be discussed by a inﬂuen- his B.A. from St. Bemard’s Colle ‘n

annual tialmoraltheologian and Roman Catho- 1955 and was ordained in 1958. e

Ce1eb1'3' lic priest on Thursday, March 2. holds the Licentiate in Sacred Theol-

tion of Father Charles E. Curran, a distin- ogy and a Doctorate in Sacred Theol-

Fancy guished professor of Human Values at ogy from Pontiﬁcal Gregorian Univer-

Dress at Southern Methodist University, will sity in Rome and a second Doctorate

washing_ speak in Leybum Library’s Northern withaspecialization in moral theology
Auditorium at 8 p.m. His lecture is from the Academia Alfonsrana

ton  entitled “Tensions in Contemporary in Rome.

Lee Um‘ Roman Catholicism.” He will also Curran was president of the Catho-

versity. leadafaculty seminar on “Sexual Ori- lic Theological Society of America,

the Society of Christian Ethics, and the
American Theolo ' 1 Society. Direc-

T139 ‘tum P The ‘tum P progress, earlier in the afternoon. tions in Fundame Moral Theol

- ° ' _ ' C an, a t d mor l theologan is one of his many piiblicationswri
The Rlng'tu’n P h l The R lng tum’ 1’ for nelz1rilythreeKdeecades,\fIas appoinied by Curran. It is often used as a text-
The   The   to the Elizabeth Scurlock professor- book in ethics.

. _ , , ship at S.M.U. in 1991 after serving as His visit is sponsored by the Philip
The Ring-tum P Ill The Rlng-tum P hl aroman Catholic Priest of the Diocese F. Howerton Fund.

 

\\\\

   
   

23 N. Main St.

 

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and A ccessories

Winter Clearance Sale

Lexington, VA 24450

 
  
     
   
   

\\\\

(703)463-5988

\\

The Washington and
Lee Publications Board
is accepting
applications for the
following positions:

Executive Editor and
Business Manager
of The Ring-tum Phi

Editor-in-Chief and
Business Manager
of the Calyx

Applications should
include resume and
cover letter and should
be submitted to Sarah
Gilbert in the box of
The Ring-tum Phi in the
University Center by
March 15.

 

I

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1995

  cﬁf 7172 50/79/51‘
EMEDGES ﬂS ﬂ
Wfll-MﬂDf
LIGHT |2OMﬂllCf

‘ By KIRK Susonc
, Phi Movie Reviewer

   

  
   

P

 

After Sunrise - ¢5r1‘3r‘:‘r

After seeing Richard Linklater’s Dazed and Confused, I
was eager for him to make another ﬁlm, in the hopes of more
colorful characters and oh-so—true high-school conversa-
tions. Well, After Sunrise is not the ﬁlm I thought it would
be — but it’s still worth a trip to the theater.

Linklater’s ﬁrst ﬁlm, Slacker, was an incredibly boring
yet insightful peek into slacker-dom, full of people going
nowhere and perfectly happy that way. It meandered across
scenes, characters, plot lines, picking them up and discard-
ing them like Styrofoam cups.

Dazed and Confused also had hardly any plot, but the
characters were focused and related to one another. The
action took place within a small world, the last day of high
school in the late seventies.

In his latest ﬁlm, After Sunrise, Linklater continues
condensing the cast: the two leads, Jesse and Celine have
ninety-percent of the dialogue. But instead of revelling in
cultural idiosyncrasies — music by Sweet, hot rods by
Plymouth and lots of pot —— he decides to tackle a larger issue,
Love.

Jesse (Ethan Hawke) is a young American touring Eu-
rope by train, who has recently been dumped by his girl-
friend. He meets the angelic Celine (Julie Delpy), who has
just visited her grandmother in Budapest and is on her way
back to Paris. They fall into conversation on the train ride,
and when Hawke has to get off in Vienna, he persuades her
to accompany him. But he’s got to catch a plane forAmerica
the next morning, so they will have only this one night to be
together. We follow them around as the romance builds and
then watch them say good-bye at dawn.

Linklater, who also co-wrote the script, does a good job
with the couple’s interaction and adventures. The audience
can see their interest in each other build and become more
and more intense, until by the end of the ﬁlm the two act as
if they had been life-long lovers.

But it takes a while to get going — not just the romance,
but the conversation. The ﬁrst forty-ﬁve minutes or so, it
seems that they are speaking to the camera, instead of each
other. But then again, when you’re ﬁrst getting to know
someone, it often seems like conversation is just a tool to
impress and calm the other person (see Fraternity Rush). At
any rate, by the time they reveal how deep their interest in
one another truly is, the characters are really taking shape
and pulling the audience in.

I think Linklater deserves a lot of credit for the way he
changes their relationship over the course of the ﬁlm. First,
the two are clearly on-screen just for the audience’s sake,
without being really concerned with one another. However,
by dawn there is a real chemistry and passion boiling
beneath the surface of their dialogue, almost hidden from
the audience, like a secret romance between them which
we’re simply not privy to.

Linklater also deserves praise for not drenching us with
all the “twentysomething” junk most movies targeted to
college students are ﬁlled with. Ethan Hawke has some
funky facial hair, but otherwise Linklater largely avoids any
explicit references to their age or culture, hip, French or
otherwise. ‘

Instead, the conversations between Delpy and Hawke are
interesting, tender, curious, funny, blunt, shy, awkward —
everything we would expect of two people trying to impress
one another and falling in love in the process.

Julie Delpy hasn’t gotten very much exposure in America,
with the exception of The Three Musketeers. Nevertheless,
she is a ﬁne actress with a long list of notable European ﬁlms
behind her (including both Blue and White, which are being
shown by the Film Society the week after FD); hopefully
After Sunrise will make more Americans familiar with her.
She carries her character well, trying to maintain a facade of
modern “You’ve come a long way, baby” feminism while at
the same time simply going head over heels in romantic, it’s-
always-springtime love.

Ethan Hawke is much more likable and realistic than his
character in Reality Bites. Here, Jesse doesn’t have any of
the silly, pretentious “Gen X” habits Troy Dyer displayed
in that film (such as browsing through Being and Time in a
diner). Rather, he’s a normal American male, searching for
something, exactly what he doesn’t know — but then he
stumbles upon it.

After Sunrise is not a particularly profound ﬁlm, and it
won’t prompt the emotional to tears. Instead, its got wonder-
fully realistic dialogue, and the characters act just as we
would in their situation. Basically, it’s simply a well—made
light romance, a perfect date movie in the tradition of When
Harry Met Sally... or Sleepless in Seattle.

Rating Scale
ﬁﬁﬁit-Gobuy thisnssoonas it comesoutonvideo. It isnninstant clasic. ‘You'll laugh;
®you'll cry; and maybe. just maybe, you'll learn something about yourself."

ﬂirt} - Go see this ﬁlm now, while it‘; still on the big screen. It‘: wonh I few Oscar
nominations and the seven bucks you'll pay if you see it outside lzxington. Overall,
‘Better than Cats!”

on - Okay. so there have been better ﬁlms. Nevertheless. it is a 3'-‘ example ofitsgenre.
and you should probably see it on videotape. Still. probably “Better than Cats!”

it - It happens tobe on HBO, and you're blowing off tomorrow's reading, Although your
time would probably be better served on your education, its free and you’re bored, so go
ahead and watch it.

0 - Even if in free and your best friend said he never laughed harder. mist me. this one

such. Don't waste your time, or at least don't waste it on this. (There's always MTV.)

 
  

By AYANNA BRADY
Phi Staff Writer

Your help is needed to solve a
murder tonight at 8 p.m. in the
GHQ.

Tonight's Murder Mystery is
sponsored by the Student Activi-
ties Board (SAB) and the Minority
Student Association (MSA).

“It could be your last chance to
meet an FD date or the best place to
get back at the date that ditched
you last year,” said Bob Taylor,
MSA vice president.

East Coast Entertainment wrote
a script tailored for the W&L audi-
ence. Student Activities Coordi-
nator Michelle Richardson sent a
month’s worth of both school news-
papers to the script writers to get
them acquainted with the W&L
community.

In this game, the audience actu-
ally becomes investigators work-

-a-v~-'--~ . .» 

... ...,. ,, ,

  

ing with an ace detective to solve a
thrilling murder. The ﬁrst few
minutes of the game the audience
will interview each other. Audi-
ence members will be given ques-
tionnaires that will help them get a
character sketch of each other to
receive information on who has

the motive to commit murder.

“lt’s a time where people who
don’t know each other get achance
to meet while asking them ques-
tions to see if they’ll have an alibi
for the upcoming murder,” said
Richardson.

During the course of the

orsii llhellmrlll

lonight’s Murder Mystery boosts tun audience participation

_,) ............,. .. . ..

f ..il.5*il.E"*|¥%ﬂ@3!!.!“liﬂl . .

evening, an audience member will
fall victim to a murder. The sur-
viving guests then question sus-
pects, search for clues and help the
detective ﬁnd the killer.

The GHQ will turn into a head-
quarters for solving the murder.
Eight actors and a few students

PAGE 3

will guide the performance for the
mystery. But everyone’s identity
is a secret. The line between per-
former and audience is erased and
everyone becomes a suspect. It
could be your best friend, your
roommate, or even your professor.
So, if your friends have been hav-
ing secret meetings or acting
strange lately, they could be in on
the murder plot. No one is above
reproach except the ace detective.
He will drop clues and names of
students that may be involved in
the murder. The murderer will
always be in the room and will try
and shift the guilt on to innocent
audience members.

In the end, audience members
will be asked to ﬁll out a solution
sheet which will secretly divulge
their accusations to the detective,
who in turn uses the theories to
help him solve the crime. The
audience will be able to compete
individually or in teams to solve
the case.

“Mystery prizes will be
awarded to the teams or individu-
als who correctly solve the mur-
der,” said Michelle Richardson.

\7ou1ez~vous a let’ E3 9 avec moi?

By BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

in black?

There's nothing more sophisticated. .or pretentious. . .than

Shopping:
J e voudrais une robe de soir. I want an evening gown.
Avez-vous les mémes en noir? Do you have the same one

J e voudrais une paire de chaussures ti talons hauts. I'd

was clever but shy.

dans mon calecon.

Ce vin a gout de bouchon. Thewine tastes of cork.
LeRomanee-Conti rester a jamais un sublime rat de cave
Romanee-Conti is forever a sublime

speaking French unnecessarily. This year's Fancy Dress
theme offers many opportunities to speak French. I decided
to get into the spirit of this year's ball by ﬁnding some handy
French phrases to use at FD. In an attempt to overcome the

like a pair of high-heeled shoes.
Je voudrias un collier perle. I'd like a pearl necklace.

Drinking:
Je voudrais une biére. I'd like a beer.

ferret in my underpants.

Une whisky double s'il vous plait. A double whiskey,
please.

Apportez-m’en encore rhum. Please bring me another
rum.

 

handicap of being a Spanish
major, I picked up a few phrase

J ’aimerais une bouteille de
vodka. I'd like a bottle of

books from the bookstore.
Wicked French by Howard
Tomb is a lot of fun and sells
for $3.95. Berlitz's French
Phrase Book & Dictionary,
which costs $6.95, is a lot more
practical. Kind soul that I am,
I've decided to ﬁll you in aon
special FD French.

Finding a date:

Voulez-vous allera FD avec
moi? Will you go to FD with

I’lS{ZS 23$

ain. s

 
    
 
    

2 1e soleilftn se Ievz Plus. at
v if the sun never

 

vodka.

Je suis malade. I'm sick.

J ’ai des nusees. I feel
nauseous.

J 'ai d ’eu des vomissements.
I've been vomiting.

Que lesﬂammes de l’Islam
consument votre-train de vie
degenere! May the ﬂames of
Islam consume your degener-
ate lifestyle!

Vous devrez garder le lit

me?
Avecplasir, merci. I'd love
to, thank you.

Non, cela ne m’intéresse pas. No, I'm not itnerested,

thank you.

Ell est frommage de route! She is road cheese!
Tire-toi, espece de depuceleur de vierges.

deﬁler of virgins.

Ronald Suresh Robe:

 By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Black conservatism has caught the imagi-
nation of American politics.

Clarence Thomas serves on the Supreme
Court, after a controversial nomination.

Thomas Sowell spews his tough-minded
economic analysis in Forbes as well as daily
newspapers across the country.

Armstrong Williams and Ken Hamblin
are now being called the “black Rush
Limbaughs.”

Katherine Tate, author of From Protest
to Politics: TheNewBlack Voters inAmeri-
can Elections, argues that blacks are on
average socially conservative but economi-
cally liberal.

“Roberts contends that
Thomas uses law as an
excuse why his decisions
fail to promote racial
justice.”

Ronald Suresh Roberts, author of
Clarence Thomas and the Tough Love
Crowd: Counterfeit Heroes and Unhappy
Truths, argues that these black neo-conser-
vatives are really just an eccentricity that the
media has exaggerated into a movement.

Roberts contends black conservatives
present themselves as harsh truth-tellers.

Far from being uncaring, they often claim
to care for the people they criticize.

Although these black conservatives are
often derided as “Uncle Toms,” Roberts
argues that this label is too simplistic.

Instead, their ﬂawed thinking lies in their
construction of truth.

Because they lack a constituency, they
cling to a notion of truth to defend their
political positions.

Clarence Thomas and others often point
out their inability to make inroads in the
black community as proof of their courage
to speak the “truth.”

Presenting themselves as brutally hon-

Puis-je avoir la carte de vins? May I have the wine list,

please?

J ’aimerais une bouteille de vin blanc/rouge. I'd like a

bottle of white/red wine.
Buzzoff,

est, they claim their willingness to think
independently and criticize what they see as
an internal “thought police” within the black
community.

Furthermore, especially in law, Roberts
argues black conservatives utilize Julien
Benda’s conception of intellectual thought
divorced from ideology or passion. In their
view, too much of a concern with the dispos-
sessed or race gets in the way of true intellec-
tual thought.

According to Stephen Carter, author of
Reﬂections of a Affirmative Action Baby,
“Literalistic egalitarianism, appropriate and
relevant to problems of political and social
life, cannot be permitted to invade and domi-
nate the crucial areas of the intellect, aes-
thetics and ethics.”

Although conservatives such as Thomas
speak of a need for racial justice, they search
for an high objective truth that produces a
result opposite of racial justice.

Sometimes this truth is law.

Roberts contends that Thomas uses law
as an excuse why his decisions fail to pro-
mote racial justice.

He conceives of the Constitution as a
imperfect document that is unable to solve
all social ills.

In Hudson v. McMillan, a case about
prison guards using excessive force on a
prisoner, Thomas dissented from the major-
ity decision, saying that guards beating pris-
oners did not constitute cruel and unusual
punishment under the Eighth Amendment:
“The Eighth Amendment is not, and should
not be turned into, a National Code of Prison
Regulations.”

Overall, Roberts presents a devastating
critique of black conservatism.

His writing style combines incisive argu-
ments with a wry sense of humor and a blunt
forcefulness.

He writes with authority and intelligence.

For those who are looking for easy read-
ing, this book is not it.

Roberts weaves complex legal and philo-
sophical theories in the text.

People who have no understanding of
law or current legal theories may have a hard
time reading this book.

Roberts oftentimes analyzes heady is-
sues, but his prose is usually clear and con-
cise. He adds a fresh voice of reason to the
debate about black conservatism in an in-
creasingly conservative environment.

Ce vin a de la jambe. The wine has great legs.
L 'A rmagnac étaitfute mais trop discrét. The Armagnac

-citn-5..

Hooking up:

septjours. You must stay in
bed for seven days.

Vous étes une super nana. You are one fabulous babe.

Vos yeux sont aussi bleus que I ’ocean de mon amour pour

vous est grand, monpetit chou. Your eyes are as blue as the

sea of my love for you is large, my little cabbage.
On se tire, poupée. Let's split, babe.

rts explores black neoconservatism

Publicity photo

Ronald Suresh Roberts, author of Clarence Thomas and the Tough
Love Crowd is a graduate of Balliol College, Oxford and Harvard
Law School. He is currently establishing a Finance Literacy
Project at Ftmda Community College, Soweto, South Africa.

 

 

‘ * The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1995 ‘
W&LIFE

   
        
   
 
   

   

     

5/aéw sgqoufagciainem °3u9u°«%a§:'5’~“£°..':mf°"‘°°‘-T"°- "GQL;.Eﬂ" "uypp GREEN” .-
A  5 TH E 1.49;; wacxv comm covs_.m ms noucu.9 M
v‘
 0:”: ' HI MOM wmws G”.-
Cot-ims cuunc c"”""""‘-" _
y A DOING HERE 3 : New 1
1 :5 PROGRAMMING
I A -  LINE-UP...
.  °‘.i°&.}:‘.';“<..'...”:’.“'....""°"-"‘_j "

MIXED MEDIA ‘

by Jack Ohman Valley My 2

amount stones "

EVENTUALLY...

COJRT TV Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

$kYDiVE ViR9iN ‘A! v

 

 

FINAL DANCTC J53 W&L STUDENTS

 

   
  
   
   
  

    
  
 
    
     
      

_ Before Fancg Dress Self-storage units now available. _ _

Fairfax Loun e, Umverslig Center Reserveyour Selgstorage area Tram and make yourflrst parachute
52%-p(r)nptCOr 530“ for the summer months. lump in One daY- Sk}'diV€ Wrginias .

Come with or \N—”hQm 6 parmcn 2b5 ilouéhlgefferson Street staff has 30+ years mstructional expe-

Lcam Foxtrot, gwm ,& Wang C 111 OIIIIIIO S 1ZZ3 rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-

Frank Roupas 3 4-2| I4 Call Mrs. Brown 463-5013 DIVE. .7 .
***SPRING BREAK 95*"
K H 9 C *"““é:?.’§‘.‘f.3 .§2.’.:';:'.::“.§f’.f:‘i‘1..C.?.::.‘P““” APARTMENT FOR RENT

e y S O r n e r 110% Lowest price ‘Guarantee! Organize 15 friends 2 b d _ V

On moo (Nelson St.), 2.5 miles West of Lexington and ggigelsggizhlggli€§58;’§§1‘§I¥E‘:fIg995 6 room apﬁlrtmem for mm In

"T he tradition continues” d1‘:Wnt°WI1 L€X1I1gt0Il - just 3 VCYY
t lk *

Custom-made hand tied flies and S or W8 from W&L Campus’

guided fly fishing trips available from $187.50 per month per bedroom.
K°"V’5 c°"‘°' $375.00 per month for the unit. »»
t dent Pre- rin Break al -
QQMINQ §QQN: S U throug]pMarg] 11 S 9 La d?re1atLoc§t1on! t
Com lete fl fishin line . 1‘ °‘ Pays 0‘ W3 6‘ '
p y 9 . 10% Off on 1st 3 items - 20% including hot water. "
As Always; We Provide The Best off on 4 itemsor more A .1 b1 b . .
Service For The W&L Community must Show Student "3 If. Val a e egmnmg June 1’ 1995'
interested, please call the property manager, Mrs. A g
open 7 Days 463-M52 was & sandy Nye, Proprietors 17 S. Main St. 463-9730 Hours: Mon-Sat 10-5:30 Brown’ at 463-3013 8 am - 5 pm M'F'

‘V

THE   iillgi  
Student Activities Board  .
PRESENTS

wavy/eamhle _
M 19.9.;/t/age i

Q
€90/I/na/mbh
9§?adm@mu'e/k
yewlom '

I:

. V
0. ‘ V .
» .
'.‘*.
;  ~:. 4
.: 1.
‘ ‘r  ‘

7

, --.
....,,..,,,..._.,...... ‘_.

.    .  0 0‘     P 0: 1; HELP WANTED 9
  ri .HEeP-F"    

N  P  A 0 I Men/Women earn up to $480
,_ " _ . _ _ 1 weekly assembling circuit

boards/electronic components

at home. Experience unnec-

H I   essary, will train. Immediate

openings in your local area. ‘‘

Pavilion C:::?%s§%§*4ju f
  2 : Vac‘; Preston .

l

  show starts 8:30  by
$8 in advance - $10 at the door n‘i‘§?§‘$§eVXiv$’§?L

BEER GARDEN — ID REQUIRED Ca,12§::23:;A.... »  

5:00 PM

 

I

PAGE 5

(litre ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A word of friendly advice...

Today a new university president will be announced, taking
the helm at one of the oldest and most traditional schools in the
country, and the job is a tough one.

An extensive familiarity with Washington and Lee history
and tradition is a necessary characteristic for any potential
W&L leader, and I would imagine that the selection commit-
tee has taken this into consideration. The nature of the honor
code and similar values of W&L culture pre-suppose a close
and careful study of the life of Robert E. Lee and the inherent
system of beliefs of the community.

Beyond this, though, the Phi would be honored to bestow
some advice for the new president, with the hopes that he or
she will benefit from the 97 years of experience the newspaper
has at Washington and Lee.

First, learn the names of the students. We all came to
Washington and Lee, in part, because of the small campus, in
which personal relationships with faculty and administration
are possible and integral parts of our college experience. A
little extra effort on your part will go a long way to strengthen
your relationship with the campus.

Second, respect your elders. Lee, Washington, Huntley,
these predecessors are dearly loved by the W&L community
and should not, at any expense, be held in any less than the
utmost regard.

Third, love your neighbors. One of the unusual perks of the
W&L presidency is the Lee House, conveniently located right
next door to the largest of the freshman dorms. We are not
quite sure if this is a good or bad thing, but you will get to know
many of the students in the freshman class in an unusually
intimate way.

Fourth, learn the Greek alphabet. All of the students know
it, and you will regret deeply any mis-pronounced Greek
letters or misplaced Greek abbreviations (i.e., never call the
lambda Chi Alpha fraternity “Lambda”).

The Phi wishes the new president, whomever he or she may
be, the best of luck; we understand the unusual nature of your
position, and we, as one of the oldest campus newspapers in
the country, can empathize with the difficulty of constantly re-
creating something which is older than we can ever hope to be.
Good luck!

Quotes of the Week...

“The key to a good FD is to get to the ball before
everyone ’s drunk.”
“You mean, Tuesday?”

Assistant Professor of Politics Eduardo Velasquez

and one of his students discussing the upcoming
French revels

“I can use this method because it’s just as much work,
and as long as you’re sufficiently miserable, the universe
is satisfied.”
“Well, in case there is any danger of you actually
catching on, let’s move quickly on...”
Assistant Professor of Chemistry Steven Desjardins
reinforcing his unusual teaching philosophy

   
  
  
      

  
  
 

UH... 7.
/Y‘-ET You
AT P,'_AYf-‘Illa

   

OPINION

F/\ l\/CY DISTRESS

  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 34, 1995

Canadians have it both Ways

5MEL1ssA siwm, '97

The only questions they asked me at
the Canadian border were about fire-
arms, alcohol, and cigarettes. It is pos-
sible, of course, that the customs agent
didn’t think I looked particularly sus-
picious, with my hands lying conspicu-
ously on the dashboard and my brown
bag lunch hidden carefully within my
bundle of skis. Heaven forbid that I
should smuggle any fruit ﬂies across
the border? But as I coasted self-con-
sciously through the wire gate that sepa-
rates the two countries, I watched two
young men with Idaho plates being
shaken down by the side of the road.
Their crime? Perhaps the three unde-
clared hunting riﬂes stashed in their
aging car, behind the cooler of beer.

The greatest customs of infractions
are not the transport of fruit ﬂies or the
smuggling of sportsmen’s riﬂes. They
are the cars ﬁlled to the limit with
cartons of cigarettes. Despite the re-
cent and sudden drop in the Canadian
dollar, a successful cigarette smuggler
can reap hundreds of dollars in profit

, for each shipment. The reason? It is the

same reason for which a very success-
ful pub in Vancouver, British Colum-
bia, goes by the name “The Jolly Tax-
payer”: Canadians pay ﬁfty-ﬁve per-
cent of their income in state and na-
tional taxes. Imagine working from
January until July each year without
earning a cent towards your own ex-
penses. As much as that ﬁfty-ﬁve per-
cent pays for national health care and
law enforcement, “watchful” customs
agents, and a liquor control board, my
Canadian friends still pay $125 to have
their teeth cleaned.

Perhaps in some way the advan-
tages balanceout.Those wholive close
to the border are experts at benefiting
from the huge warehouse food outlets
on the American side. Some even re-
tain houses on both sides, like the fam-
ily friend who prefers to live in Wash-
ington state but keeps an apartment in
Vancouver so that he may continue to
collect his hefty Canadian disability
checks. Housing is a complicated issue
for those who delve into the world of
real estate trading, however. The United
States exacts a sizable capital gains tax

on housing, but allows deductions for

renovations and repairs, whereas in"

Canada the exact opposite is true: there
is no capital gains tax, but home repair
is a costly, and
sometimes unprof-
itable, endeavor. In
over-simplified
terms of economic

——cc

Canada,

, gallon stateside?

' I ‘Canada, "despite heavy taxation,

seems to have little difficulty in attract-
ing immigrants. Three of the top five
groups entering
Vancouver now
are Chinese
speaking, and
many are guar-

de-

incentives, Cana- . teed -
dianswillcomfort- spite heavy taxa- 33¢ u§'§.’.e'Zi§i
ably let their (fan, seems to clausesintheim-

houses fall apart
and move to a new
home, while
Americans will

have little diﬂ’i-
culty in attract-

migration law.
These clauses
favor million-

- - aires, business-
prefer to salvage tug Immigrants’ menandallother
existingstructures. types of inves-

Ideally, we tors. The inﬂux
would all prefer to from Hong
live at the border Kong, soon to
and take advantage revert to rule by

of both worlds, pleading “NAFTA”
and “free trade” if an angry customs
agent happens to discover our trunk
full of cigarettes. Can “free trade” also
apply to government and medical ben-
efits? What about the gasoline that is
about thirty cents cheaper per

the People’s Republic of China, is par-
ticularly composed of the wealthy who
are fearful that the communist govem-
merit will seize their assets. They are
indeed the Jolly Taxpayers then, whey
they are allowed to keep forty-ﬁve
percent of their millions in Canada.

(J11: ‘filing-htm lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editor s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Scott Bookwalter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dan Odenwald, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickenger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

Advenising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd, Jenni Grant

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring—tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059

Kill ’em all, let God sort them out

ALEX CHRISTENSEN, ’98

Fax (703) 462-4060

In this week’s column I was going to write
about the case of Jesse DeWayne Jacobs, a man
many believe was innocent of the murder for
which he was executed by the state of Texas in
January. Yes, I admit it, I was going to fulminate
about the injustice of the case, not to mention its
inhumanity. So, I logged on to Liberty and started
up a Lexis/Nexis search on
“Jacobs,” “Urdiales” (the
murder victim), “Texas,” and
“execution.” (For those of you
whoare computerilliterate and
sorta don’t get the drift of this,
I’m afraid it’s just time for
you to suck it up and figure it
out. Hamburgers will never
cost five cents again. $200
will not buy you a
new Cadillac.)

The search brought up a
bunch of editorials, and, gem
of gems, the thing all journalists love: the pure,
unfiltered Supreme Court opinion. So I scrolled
through a bunch of junk‘ until I got the basic drift
of the case. .

In February, 1986, Jesse Jacobs was on parole
in the state of Texas for participating in the
beating to death of a retarded man with a fence
post in Illinois, when he was convinced by his
sister, Bobbie Jean Hogan, to help kidnap her
boyfriend’s ex-wife, Etta Ann Urdiales, in order
to scare her into giving up custody of her children.

Hey, I never said this was going to be pretty.
This is the deep, rotted, mutating marrow of
America we are talking about. lt’s not for the
weak-hearted.

After stalking Urdiales for several days, he got
her alone in her apartment and kidnapped her. He

...somebody,
please, stop these

hick Texans before
they kill again.

brought her to an abandoned house and ‘waited for
Hogan to show up. What happened next is the bone
of contention. .

At Jacobs’s trial, the ﬁrst trial, his own confession
was used by the prosecution as the major piece of
evidence against him. However, at the trial, he testified
that his confession was false. According to the confes-
sion, he killed Urdiales and buried her in a wooded area,
to which he led the police. Now he said he had left Hogan
alone with Urdiales, not knowing that Hogan_was armed
(with the gun he had given her days earlier). When
Hogan accidentally shot Urdiales
while trying to frighten her, Jacobs
entered the house, ascertained the
situation, and told his sister to go
home, he would take care of things.
He then buried Urdiales and left town,
embarking on a six-month
robbery spree.

The jury believed the original con-
fession, and Jacobs was sentenced to
the death penalty.

Then, at Hogan’s trial, the pros-
ecution (in fact, the same prosecutor,

Peter Speers), changed stories. Now
he brought inJacobs to testify that Hogan had pulled the
trigger. (In case you are wondering at this point, yes, this
is highly illegal. It is called “prosecutorial misconduct”
when everyone is being civil.)

The jury believed the prosecution again (this is
Texas, not California) and convicted Hogan of murder.
However, at sentencing, Hogan’s lawyers convinced
the jury that the shooting had been an accident, resulting
in a ten-year sentence for involuntary manslaughter.

During the many appeals, Jacobs argued, correctly,
that precedent did not allow prosecutors to simply
introduce whatever evidence might point to guilt; they
had to know it was true, or at least not know that it was
not true. Clearly, they had done that in either Jacobs’s
case or Hogan’s. You can’t have prosecutors arguing
that there was one murderer but convicting two people
of it, once using one against the other.

To dramatize the problem here, two quotes from
Pete Speers, one from Jacobs’s trial and one from
Hogan’s: “The simple fact is that Jesse Jacobs, and
Jesse Jacobs alone, killed Etta Ann Urdiales,” and
later, “I’m convinced that Bobbie Hogan is the one
who pulled the trigger.” _

At the Supreme Court, this is exactly Justice
John Paul Stevens argued in his dissent, joined by
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and joined in the pnn-
ciple that a ruling for review should have been issued
by Justice Stephen Breyer. Where were the other six
members of the Court during all of this? Well, appar-
ently they were trying to prove a point. That point is
that the appeals process should not be used in a
deleterious ‘manner in order to keep death row in-
mates alive for years after their sentencing. Unfortu-
nately, in their zeal, they have become blinded to real
issues of law and procedure set down clearly through
years of precedent.

I’m not going to argue that the courts should
outlaw the death penalty. I think clearly it isa sen-
tence that is pennitted by law, custom and history.
and its practice should be left up to the legislative
bodies where all other laws are made. .

I do think I would vote against it_as a bad Idea.
Mario Cuomo tells a story about a little boy made
aware of an execution asking his mother. “Why are
they killing that man?” “Because he killed another
person, and if anybody killed you, that man would be
killed, too.” “And what about if I was raped. Mama?
Would you rape that man?”

I think Mario Cuomo is right. However, I also
think his argument belongs in the legislature rather
than the courts. .

But somebody, please, stop these hick Texans
before they kill again. _

Oh, by the way, Bobbie Jean Hogan is up for
parole this year.

'”Junk” consulted includes Time, Newsweek, The
New York Times, The Houston Chronicle, etc. Quotes
taken from Time.

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 24,1995

OPINION

PAGE 6

Credit cards threaten our world

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

Let us now sit down in our favorite
chair and address the greatest threat
facing Washington and Lee students
today: credit card companies. They
innocently call you on the phone, wav-
ing $500 credit lines in your face, know-
ing that you’ll bite, line, hook, and
sinker, and sell yourself into the world
of the credit-card enslaved.

It’s so easy! Before long, you are
calling 1-800-FLOWERS and Judy,
the Time-Life Operator, or ordering
Elvis commemorative plates from the
Franklin Mint, because all you need is
a little piece of plastic and no actual
money leaves your wallet. And it’s
so easy!

Not that l have gone overboard.
Quite frankly, I enjoy the convenience
of receiving a bill of my expenditures
at the end of the month. OK, I’ll be
honest: In enjoy receiving two bills of
expenditures. You must understand, I
am a repeat offender; I have swallowed
the Visa AND Mastercard bait.

A voice deep inside of me has al-
ways wanted to answer a sales clerk
who has said “Visa or Mastercard?” by
saying,“Yourchoice.”Thisthrill, how-
ever, quickly disappears whenever the
mail comes, and I begin to question the
wisdom of that $144.51 impulse pur-
chase at “South of the Border.”

I must now get up from my comfort-
able chair and congratulate whatever
force decided to offer college students
credit cards; it is a genius. I say “it”
because I have a new conspiracy theory
that credit cards are the secret weapons
of an evil and sadistic reptilian alien
race, destined to saddle this generation
with unmanageable debt and this con-
trol it as a part of its evil and sadistic
plan to take over our great free nation,
and harvest its people for food, and
drain our oceans
of water to sat-
isfy theirevil and
sadistic leader,
and to guarantee
their evil and sa-
distic desert
home planet’s
survival. This
theory is, basi-
cally, the plot
from V: The Fi-

A voice deep inside of
me has always wanted to
answer a sales clerk who
has said “Visa or .
Mastercard?” by saying,

centive for college students to make
monthly payments:

Visa: Your minimum payment this
month is $25. Are you going to pay it?

Robert E. Student: Well, um, I
have to pay the tow truck that took
my car... ’

Visa: Well perhaps our friend Diana
can persuade you to change your mind.

Robert E. Student: NO! NO!
PLEASE NO! Here, here’s the $25. In
fact, take this $400 I was going to use
for my W&L
Greek Tax! Take
my watch...

Visa: Too late.

D i a n a :
(Crunch.”
GULP).

OK, OK, I re-
alize I may be be-
ing a little unfair
in my theory, but I
am in too deep to

nal Victory. “Your choice, ” care. But in de-
An)’ guys out   fensev I dare ‘O You
there will agree to give Mastercard

with me when I

say that the one redeeming feature of
this mid-1980’s sci-fr series was, with-
out a doubt, actress Jane Badler, who
portrayed the character of “Diana,” the
kind, soft-spoken, gentle alien com-
mander who bit the heads off of live
rats, small dogs, and residents of Los

Angeles. What a woman! My theory .

includes the idea that credit card com-
panies are now using Diana as an in-

LETTERS

a call and ask their
spokesalien if it isn’t true that
.051780%DLY is some kind of track-
ing code to make it so YOU CAN
NEVER ESCAPE. And while you’re
at it, ask them about the little micro-
phones they have implanted in my
teeth so they can listen in on
my conversations.

My credit card conspiracy theory is
not limited just to Visa and Mastercard,

but it even includes ATM cards. Think
about it: you go to abank machine, type
in your personal identiﬁcation number
and then you withdraw your book
money for the semester and use it for a
weekend. By doing this, you immedi-
ately tip off the aliens as to your loca-
tion and then they can sit around their
TV screens with their alien buddies
and watch you (via the ATM video
cameras —— see how this is all tying in
?). The way that students handle their
finances around here probably provides
many entertainment opportunities for
the aliens.

Robert E. (types
in number)

Joe Alien: Hey, Bob, look: this kid
is withdrawing more money. Hey, I’ll
be you five bucks that he uses it to pay
his Centel bill for the past three months.

BohAlien: No way, Joe: he’s going
to use it to buy his Chemistry books
and pay his tutor to understand them
for him. You’re on.

Robert E. Student: (withdraws
money and turns around) DIANA! Oh
my God! NO! PLEASE NO!

Diana: (Crunch... GULP) (She takes
the money).

Joe Alien: That was great! Let’s see
that on instant replay...

Well, consider yourself warned. I’ll
be leaving now. I’ve heard rumors of a
new Lee-Hi credit card being offered,
and I’m going to check it.

This column was originally pub-
lished on September 1 7, 1993.

Student:

Framptom advises community on ticket purchase

To the W&L community:

As you all are probably well aware,
the 88th annual Fancy Dress Ball is
rapidly approaching.

I would like to take this opportunity
to bring a few important points to
your attention.

Please be sure to purchase a ticket
and bring it with you to the ball. In the
past, there have been rumors that some
students have attended the ball without
purchasing a ticket. Attending the ball
without a ticket may be a violation of

the Honor System, and any alleged
violations will be reported to
the Executive Committee for
further investigation.

Tickets and memorabilia items will
be on sale in the University Center
beginning on Monday, February 27.
These items will be sold between 9
a.m. and 5 p.m. on Monday through
Thursday and from 9 a.m. until 2 p.m.
on Friday, March 3.

In addition, tickets and memora-
bilia items will be sold on Tuesday and

Wednesday evening from 6-8 p.m.
Tickets will also be sold at the front
door for any people who haven’t al-
ready purchased them.

Tickets for this year’s ball will $45
per couple. The entire memorabilia
package, consisting of one couple’s
ticket, two t-shirts, two posters, two
shot glasses, four cups, two playbills,
and two key chains will be sold for $80.
In addition, these items as well as se-
lected items from previous years will
be sold separately.

As previously announced, the ball
will be held in the Warner Center on
Friday, March 3 from 9:30 p.m. until
1:30 a.m.

The steering committee has worked
exceptionally hard to bring you this
year’s ball, and I hope that all of you
attend and enjoy the ball. Best wishes
for a safe and entertaining Fancy
Dress weekend.

Joe Framptom
Chairman, 1995 Fancy Dress Ball

Loans

In a bind and need cash soon?
Call the Student Emergency Loan
Committee for help. We sill review
your case and hand you a check.
Call Paul Wright at 463-4360.

Kathekon

Pick up Kathekon applications
and sign up for interview times be-
ginning Monday, February 6. Ap-
plications may be picked up in the
University Center outside of Carol
Caulkins’ office, and are due no
later than Wednesday, March 1.

Recruitment

The Student Recruitment Com-
mittee is now accepting letters of
interest for the 1995-96 chairmen
positions. Letters should be submit-
ted to Julia Kozak, Associate Direc-
tor of Admission, no later than
March 3.

Phi

The Ring-tum Phi needs staff
writers. If you think you might be
interested in writing, come to our
weekly meetings, every Tuesday at
7:00 in the Phi office, University
Center room 208. For information,
give us a call at 462-4059.

SCA

The Society for Creative
Anachonisms (SCA) recreates many
aspects of the Middle Ages includ-
ing ﬁghting, feasting, singing, danc-
ing, gambling, and social structure.
Meetings are at 7:00 p.m. on Thurs-
day nights, at the International
House, 8 Lee Avenue. For more
information, contact Rachel Wright
at x4702 or rwright@wlu.edu.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Big Four

Big Four elections are coming
up on Monday, March 6, from 8:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Speeches will be
in C-School room 327 on Thurs-
day, March 2, at 7:00 p.m. Peti-
tions to run for office are due Mon-
day, February 27, at 5:00 p.m. in
the Executive Committee Office at
the Rules Setting meeting.

Study-Abroad

The director of the study-abroad
program Advanced Studies in En-
gland, located in Bath, will be on
campus Friday, February 24, at 3:00
p.m. in the University Center, room
117 to talk to interested students.

Career Focus

There will be a career focus
workshop on Monday, February
27, at 4:00 p.m. in Room 109 of the
University Center. All students are
invited to attend.

Interviews

Videotaped practice interviews
will be conducted on March 15. If
you are interested in a practice in-
terview, sign up for a time in the
Career Development Office.

The Advocate

The next presentation from the
Washington and Lee Film Society
will be the quirky murder mystery
The Advocate, directed by Leslie
Megahey. Screenings will be at
8:05 on Friday, February 24, and
Saturday, February 25, in the Trou-
badour Cinema, at the comer of
Main and Henry Streets. There is
no charge for admission.'The ﬁlm
is in English.

Executive Committee addresses faculty and staff about Honor system

To the W&L community:

This is in reference to the statement
drafted by the Executive Committee
regarding honor expectations outside
the classroom. Last year’s White Book
Review Committee had a number of
recommendations regarding non-white
book revisions at W&L. As a result of
this, this year’s Executive Committee

Honor systems cannot

To the editor:

On February 1, Professor Donald
McCabe of Rutgers University took
part in a panel discussion in Lee Chapel
about the honor system. The Execu-
tive Committee, the EC Honor Re-
Orientation Committee and Contact
sponsored the event. Professor
McCabe is a leading expert on honor
systems, and his research confirmed
that W&L’s system works better than
any other in the country. Congratula-
tions to all the students, faculty and
administrators who contribute to the
fine environment that allows the sys-
tem to ﬂourish. Two issues discussed
by the panel were the role of fear and
the role of students and faculty in the
system. As an EC member and Honor
Re-Orientation Committee member, I
wanted to offer some comments. The
two roles illustrate the transformation
that a student ideally undergoes while
living underthe honor system at W&L.

An honor system that wields the

formed a sub-committee to study these
recommendations. One particular con-
cern of students at W&L was the de-
gree of seriousness with which faculty
and staff view the honor system. Many
students feel that the honor system is
not held in the same regard by faculty
as by students. With this in mind, the
committee felt it appropriate to draft a

sword of fear does little to educate
students about how to live honorably.
All that system teaches is how to avoid
consequences. When the student en-
ters other phases of life, the value of
honor is discarded. At W&L, fear may
be very real sometimes because of the
consequences of committing an honor
violation. If respect for honor never
replaces this fear, the system has not
worked. Fear cannot produce the per-
sonal growth that comes in four years
of living in a community where honor
is revered and practiced.

Honor cannot be a pragmatic virtue.
I have noted the tendency of people to
describe how great the honor system is
because you can leave stuff around and
no one will bother it. This is a wonder-
ful effect of the community of trust.
Pens that fall on the floor sit there for
days because no one wants to pick up
someone else’s things. It is also cer-
tainly fantastic that professors do not
have to proctor exams. However, the

policy regarding their commitment to
the Honor system.

The sole purpose in drafting the
statement was to stress the spirit of
trust that makes W&L the institution
that it is today.

William Toles
E.C. Secretary

system is not there for convenience.

The system is there to educate us about

honor.

A few years ago at Vanderbilt Uni-

versity, a debate about the efficacy of
the honor code ensued after Professor
McCabe’s study of the school code
revealed around 65% of students ad-

mitted cheating. This was about the
nonnative level for private institutions
with honor codes. The reasons people
came up with in favor of an honor code
were that it was tradition, helped the
image of the school, and put everyone
on equal ground. All these reasons are
based in mere pragmatism, and the
result for the honor code is that no one
really cared about it. Students did not
abide by it. Pragmatic reasons for
having an honor system will not ulti-
mately sufﬁce because the burden be-
comes too great in the enforcement. If
we just like taking unproctored exams,
the single sanction would be too harsh.
The system would fall into disuse.

Interviews and Photos
By Darcey Livingston

If you could go to the Fancy Dress Ball with anyone,

Edye Poecker, ’97, Bangor, PA——
“Even though I’m a die-hard Republi-
can, my dream date would be John F.
Kennedy, Jr.”

  

Terence 0_’Hare, ’98, Venice, Italy-
Kim Basrnger because I’ll have four
great nights with her.”

Laura Purcell, ’95, Springfield,
OH—“Brad Pitt because he’s the sexi-
est man alive!”

TALKBACK

 

 

To Washington and Lee Staff
Members:

The Honor System of Washington
and Lee is based on the fundamental
principle that a spirit of trust pervades
all aspects of student life. This spirit of
trust makes Washington and Lee a
unique educational institution. A
student’s word is accepted and re-

Recently at the University of Virginia,
the Board of Visitors seized control of
the honor system after many recent
court challenges to honor system ver-
dicts. UVA has a tradition of honor,
but this has not been enough. The
failure by the student body to continue
to operate the system on principles of
honor has led to the unfortunate situa-
tion where it is necessary to reconsider
the role of honor at UVA. Again, when
the reasons for enforcement become
clouded, the enforcement becomes
problematic. They might want to take
some lessons from W&L. However,
we must learn from their mistakes as
well.

W&L has a renowned tradition of
honor. General Lee did not base his
implementation of the honor system in
pragmatism. He understood duty. The
essayist and University of Chicago Pro-
fessor Richard Weaver once wrote,
“The tendency to see a thing in its
moral relationships, to discipline ego-

spected both on campus and in
the community.

The system is in essence one of
mutual trust—trust among students,
faculty, administrators, and staff that
persons attending Washington and Lee
will not lie, cheat, or steal.

It is the hope of the Executive Com-
mittee that all employees of Washing-

istic impulse, and to subordinate self to
a communal ideal of conduct appears
in Lee’s often quoted saying that duty is
the most sublime word in the language.”
These ideas are not trendy or popular in
contemporary American culture and
education. The supremacy of the indi-
vidual is often the gospel of both the
liberal and the conservative. They just
have different ideas about how to
achieve that goal. Honor is a duty, but
it is a duty within the context _of a
community. W&L helps us to under-
stand that duty to others is a basis for
further education. As I said before
though, tradition is not a good enough
argument for an honor system. Stu-
dents have to ferret out the principles
Lee meant by duty and live them. I do
not claim to be able to put those prin-
ciples in a concise sentence. Honor at
W&L is only what the current students
allow it to be. However, when students
fail to base honoron principle and duty,
it is the impending demise of the honor

ton and Lee extend to students the
same degree of trust that allows
students to enjoy unparalleled
academic freedom.

The Executive Committee exists to
serve all members of the Washington
and Lee community; any questions or
concerns should be directed to a mem-
ber of the Executive Committee.

be based on pragmatic reasons

system. It is the job of the older
students and the exp°rienced faculty
to facilitate understanding of the pro-
cess by which we leave W&L under-
standing a little bit more about our
duty to one another. The Executive
Committee has undertaken honor re-
orientation to contribute to theprocess
by which we hope to see older stu-
dents assess the lessons of honor
learned during their time at W&L.
later this spring a mock closed hear-
ing will allow students to take part as
EC members in a hearing. The honor
system video will be redone in the
spring term to accentuate the philoso-
phy and positive aspects of honor at
W&L. In spite of all of these things
the EC plans, the informal process of
students passing along the knowledge
of duty is the lifeblood of honor at
W&L. It is your system. Keep up the
good work.

Keith Benedict ’96L

who would it be and why?

Robin Seaton, ’98, Dalton, GA-
Fred Astaire as a young man so we

could dance the night away.”

 

Tate Tucker, ’98, Little Rock, AR-
A handle of Jim Beam because I’ll

probably end up taking them back to
the room with me.” ~

  

our

me» i‘
'1 .

RC!

LaKeisha Townes, ’95, Richmond,
VA—“Denzel Washington. Do you
really need to ask why?”

 

  

  
 
  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 24, 1995 S1’) ORTS PAGE 7
V ,  0
CAROLINA A 1 I I
WE GLADLY owuan
ACCEPT mp
FOOD , OPERATED

:.srAMps    S|NCE1936

ii;':t'

 
   

. "ll I-~=

    
   
  

Harris Teeter
Ice Cream

hto
Rugby, one of W&L’s most popular club sports, has begun practice for the upcoming
spring season.

\ /,

I ‘I
am. “Int

President’s Choie President’s Choice
Decadent g Crisp & Thin .5,g;$g{,.':g    
COOKIES _ 12 am Crackers 543 oz  TH ‘E C D£M£

10 Pack   OF F IC£
100% Natural ............................;)l:\}l3.§[31:;hIE;{.Im;l;I;;;I;.

 

' ENVIRONMENTAL LAT PURSER & ASSOC INC
INFORMATION SESSION CHARLOTTE’ NC
ca  S u n CONSULTING COMMERCIAL REAL Es’TATE
presented by. .
PROJECT PERFORMANCE SPONSORED BY: Lat Purser, 73C, President & CEO,
O0  CORPORATION QUALIFICATIONS: *Interest in commercial real estate.
Tuesday, March 14th *Rising Junior or Senior.
7:00 pm, University Center >l< >1: >|< APPLICATION DEADLINE=i< >l< *
SER§%“v%€£“c%‘t4’t%%‘El%E F“ Friday, March 3, 1995
DISCOVER JOBS IN THE J. ROBERT SHAY
NON-PROFIT SECTOR spEc1AL AGENT
Hunter A lewhite '88 FBI
Eugggean .i5It)‘”Y Major THURS. MARCH 30TH
sociate irector
Th C -t F dation 4:00 PM, ROOM 114 UC
I , '  02' :.H:}I,:I1:§‘g,)1 1; QRZZDQTH * Learn about the F131 new recruitment
OI'VIIIe Redenbachers ZIPIOC NEWCOMB HALL, 10B * pmgnxn for SPeC”:aAgemS' St d t
Selected Varieties 69 Sandwich 99 me H.-T;,P°"S‘,3‘§“a en, & Law’ °°°”“““g’ “g"“ge “ 6“ S
P - Are Encoura ed to Attend.
P 10- _ B The Caree velopment Office g
opc_orn 5oz. ags mom.

Buy One 3.70-4.30 oz

§eIected_ Varieties
Totinos 5:; Pizza S

Get One
presents

SUPPLICATION

in the

PIT

 
 

Mamma Maiy’s

  Wednesday, March 1
Pizza Crust Pepsi  

99 2Liter ticket sales - 8:30
‘ "» 240;   I show starts — 9:00

Progresso Selected Varieties

Minestrone  Suav_e 

Soup 19 oz. Hair Care 1&2; . .
Newman ’s Own 2-Ply Brawny $ 2 admlsslon

Italian Light  Paper 

Dressing _ 16 oz. Towels _ 63 sq. ft.
.Il.?,I’.E’FS.f,§'..’!..f9?.£’;....‘f§r.l.:‘3‘§3§.. BEER GARDEN — ID REQUIRED

On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

3 President Clinton“ 

 

 

Last Week:

BASK‘.ETBALL- (M) W&L 91 E. Mennonite 67; H-Syd 76

W&L 73

(W) B'Wtr 62 W&L 45; R-MC 72 W&L 45
SW[MM[NG- (M) 2nd of 11 at Southern States
(W) 7th of 11 at Southern States
BASEBALL-Embry Riddle 14, 10 W&L 6, 0

PAGE 3

    
   
   
    
   
   
   

 

rues:

THE LAST 
sr STEPHEN

 

kind of athletic “St,
the Union” address,
be appropriate-.: A S)
If there were ‘jsujch
enterprise, this two”,
probably be an outlinéifo
this year’s version. V
Howmuchrespectdo

with foreign heads a
if he is tossed“
ballplayers? ‘V .
in an intervte
ESPN, New . York"
third baseman/right 1'’
Bobby Bonillaﬁaicl
they [the players”
knew that .Mt.’ 
oouldn’t do much wh
gotinvolved.,I (wonde
that makes”jthis,7
look overseas... «
At one point, one
players union negot
called a governme
trator ‘senile’ afte
ing to an offetﬂlle an
ently didn’t agree wit 8
Hockey has final}
ten onto the iceafter , .
bot dispute of-. itsjo’
However, despitcdit _
games being playedghalf.
of the season is arrea
down the draillrandfpt,
Stanley Cup will be); 7
cidcd during the summer. * j
At least the NFL and. .
N BA have managed tostayj 1
on the field/court thus far. =1
Unfortunately, the NFL. 
failed to provide much ex
citement with a year
playoff blowouts culmi
mating in a Superbowl;
V ‘ 0:30 outcome wasafo
ooncittsionbeforc
_,,...ne ever: began. ;
The NBA. pro,
some fasteraction andinor
mally close contestsﬂ
biggest probietn with}:
fcssional basketbatllis
lack of team play.
One of the facets of
college game that make’
the contests so exciting}
the coaching matchup
Where is there {corn fo
this in an NBA where play
era dictate to coach:
where and when they wan

   
   
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
 

   
  
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
   
    
   

   

to play‘? 
The media plays a kc
ml-e in perpetuating thi
r<:.-idem as well. Arec _

  
 
 
    
  
    
  
   
  
    
     
     
  
  
    
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
   
  

was billed bya netwo
the dream matchup
tween Barklcyand‘ . 
Ads and prornosff
game not only? featu
these two players, ”
was all they included
Don’t eight other
ers have a say ingwltat
on on the court?  ‘
On the whole,‘it appea
asif the money involv 
professional sport‘
driven the market;
deep end. :
Players areinereas
overpaid to the point ’
ridiculous. .   ~ ..
No one can convr
mcthat Glenn Robin “

accountability andrespo ‘
sibilityiforthesetrendsh

It lies with us, the fans

We are the _ones
subscribe to the increas
salaries (and. sialul
neously increasing tic
prices). , * Vi  _

At some point, the ,
den on the fan .‘0lV:l:l.lf_lg'l1_l11?,f,
both ownerand player. _ _

At some point, the ex
will fall when owns
gin to Ioscmoneyéboca
the cost of doing bus
by paying out attificia
high salaries ,becoI,ne8
great.  ,  .

After all, you can on
‘raise ticket prices so far.‘.

The recent labor dis
putes in hockey and bi
ball are the beginnings
this. ,

As owners can £1.
longer raise 3ohn’s sal
to match PauIs’s, sort) 3
thing will have to give. . v

After all, nothing lasts ‘A,
fr:-rover.

 

  

S

(J11: illing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, SWIIVIMIN G, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

This Week: ‘

Bnsumu.-at Mary Washington (Sat.)
Wiu:sruNG- Robert Hull competes at NCAA

Regionals

Irmoon T‘RACK- (M&W) ODAC Championships at

VMI
T1-:NNIs- at Davidson

FEBRUARY 24, 1995

Men ﬁnish strong at Southern States meet:

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Assistant Sports Editor.

The Washington and Lee
men’s swimming team climaxed
an outstanding season with a sen-
sational second place ﬁnish last
weekend at the Southern States
Championships at Davidson in

North Carolina.

Only Davidson, the home
team, could outlast the Generals,
who ﬁnished second in a ﬁeld of
eleven teams. In the process,
W&L duplicated last year’s run-

ner-up status.

In addition to a strong overall
performance, three W&L school
records were shattered in indi-
vidual events.

Sophomore Nathan Hottle
went on a rampage by destroying

records in both the 100 and 200
breaststroke, and the 400 freestyle
relay squad, consisting of senior
Tony Diederich, and juniors Dan
Stillman, Frank Braden, and
Craig Sears, smashed another
school mark.

Head coach Page Remillard
was obviously delighted with the
result.

“We prepared rather thor-

oughly for the meet and hoped to
be highly competitive,” he ex-
plained. “I-think we accomplished
that.”

Hottle swam far beyond com-

petitiveness.

His ﬁnish of 57.70 in the 100-

breast demolished the previous
school record by more than two
seconds, and his time of 2:05.37
in the 200 breaststroke was more
than four seconds ahead of the

. try in Division III.

previous pace.

Although he still ﬁnished sec-
ond in both races, Hottle auto-
matically qualiﬁed forthe NCAA
Championships in both events.
He also provisionally qualiﬁed
in the 400 individual medley, in
which he prevailed with a time of
4:08.99.

Since W&L was competing
against mostly Division I schools
at the meet, Hottle’s marks in the
100 and 200 breaststroke are ten-
tatively ranked ﬁrst in the coun-

with the performance of Braden.
The junior placed fourth in the
500-freestyle with a time of
4:41.01, which conditionally
earned him a spot in the NCAA
Championships.

He ﬁnished sixth in both the
100 and 200 freestyle, and also
assisted in the 400 freestyle relay
team’s record-breaking perfor-
mance, which tentatively quali-
fies for the NCAA’s as well.

“Frank has always had the tal-
ent; he just had to learn how to be
successful,” Remillard ex-
pressed. “He has just now dis-
covered it.”

Sears grabbed second place in
the 20OIMwith amark of 1 :57.52,
Stillman took fourth in the 50-
free by completing the race in
21.70 seconds, and senior John
Rowe latched onto the sixth spot

He also ended up as the sec-
ond highest individual scorer in
the meet.

“Last year, Nathan was just
tapping his potential ,” Remillard
mentioned. “This year, he has
experienced success.”

Remillard was also impressed

in the 200-breast with a 2:11.79.
All three times provisionally
qualiﬁed them for NCAA’s.

Diederich had a solid meet as
he ended up second in the 100-
frce with a time of 47.32 sec-
onds, and swam fourth in the
200-free with a time of 1:44.26.
Freshman Erik Holbrook also
garnered a fourth place ﬁnish in
the 200-butterﬂy, rolling in at
2:00.47.

The quartet of Stillman,
Diederich, Sears, and Hottle tri-
umphed in the 200-free relay with
a time of 1:26.17.

Washington and Lee had a
chance to crack another record,
but the 800-free relay team of
Braden, Diederich, Sears, and
Hottle was disqualiﬁed for start-
ing too early, after being on a
crash course toward another

school record.

Davidson beneﬁted from this
tough break, as well as from the
fact that W&L does not have a
diving team, in order to sneak
past the Generals and win th
meet.

“We kicked everybody ’s butts
in the pool,” Remillard stated.

Remillard was extremely sat-
isﬁcd with the Generals’ 6-1 regly
lar season log and expressed con-
ﬁdence in W&L’s chances at the
NCAA Championships in Ox-
ford, Ohio on March 16-18.

“At the beginning of the ye
we dedicated ourselves to pe -
formance,” he remarked. “Our
goals are to always go faster than
we did before, and to realize that
we can’! control what others do.”

“We want to make winning!
into a tradition.”

The women’s swim team ran over the competition at the Atlantic States/ODAC Championships

en route to amassinz 805 points (the next team had 600).

W&L demolishes Eastern Menno-
nite; drops heartbreaker to Sydney

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

While most of the school ﬁnished
midterms and left for a much-needed
break, the men’s basketball team com-
pleted its season with another trip to the
ODAC tournament, where they fell just
short of upsetting league champion
Hampden-Sydney in the ﬁnal game of
head coach Verne Canﬁeld’s long W&L
career.

The Generals secured a spot in the
ODAC tourney despite a 90-85 OT loss
to Lynchburg two weeks ago. In that
game, the Generals held a 66-54 lead
with 6:22 to play, but Lynchburg surged
behind Otis Tucker to close the gap.

Poor free-throw shooting allowed
Lynchburg to send the game to over-
time, as the Generals missed four key
shots in the ﬁnal minute and shot only
16-30 overall.

A three-pointer from junior Derek
Carter tied the game again at 81-81 late
in the extra period, but Lynchburg sank
its final ﬁve shots from the charity stripe
to provide the margin of defeat.

Junior forward Cam Dyer recorded a
strong 26-point, seven-rebound perfor-
mance in the loss. Sophomore Chris
Couzen contributed 16 points, and Carter
hit for 12 points, including two from
downtown.

The Generals split the ﬁnal two games
of the regular season, losing to rival
Roanoke 94- 80 on Saturday but re-
bounding with a 91 -67 thrashing of East-

F

Chris Couzen

 

em Mennonite. The split left the Gener-
als with a 10-15 regular-season ﬁnish,
6-12 in the ODAC.

V In the Roanoke game, the Generals
trailed by only three points at half—time,
40-37, but the Maroons came out strong
in the second half, posting an 18-3 run to
lead 58-40. The Generals cut the lead to
77-71 with 4:39to play, but three straight
Roanoke baskets from Jason Bishop
ended the rally.

Chris Couzen was the game’s high
scorer as he tied a W&L school record
with seven three-pointers en route to a
career-high 29 points.

Dyer posted 16 points and senior
Mark Connelly contributed 10 in the
effort.

Against the Royals of EMU, 12 Gen-
erals got on the scoreboards, establish-
ing a quick 43-33 lead at intermission.
The second half was also all Generals,
rolling to the 24-point victory.

Couzen led the Generals again with a
game-high 21 points, and Carter added
14. Both Dyers, Cam and Kelly, also
tallied 14 points.

The Generals took their game to the
Salem Civic Center on Saturday for an
imposing ﬁrst-round showdown with
league-champion Hampden-Sydney. It
looked grim early, as the Generals shot
just 29% from the ﬁeld, leading to a 39-
26 haltime deﬁcit.

However, as the Generals have done
all season, they rallied fora 21-4 burst to
take a 65-57 lead with 6:31 to play.

The pendulum of momentum then
swung to Hampden-Sydney, as the Ti-
gers answered with a 12-2 spurt to re-

Athletes of the Week

File Photo

take a 4 point lead with just over four
minutes remaining.

The Generals tied it at 71 with two
minutes to go, but the Tigers grabbed a
76-73 lead with 33 seconds left.

Derek Carter’s attempt for the tie
was off, and the Generals’ last chance
jumper from Jon Coffman fell short
after two missed foul shots from the
Tigers with ﬁve seconds left.

Connelly ﬁnished his collegiate ca-
reer with a stellar game-high 18 points
and seven rebounds.

Season high scorer Cam Dyer posted
a double-double with 16 points and 12
rebounds, and Couzen added 11 points
and nine rebounds.

Connelly and Dyer also both earned
All-ODAC honors. Dyer was named to
the second team roster for leading the
Generals in scoring (17.2 points per
game) and rebounding (8.1 a game).
Connelly received honorable mention
after ﬁnishing second in both scoring
(11.9 ppg) and rebounding (6.7).

Canﬁeld listed his players’ effort as
the most positive aspect of the season.
“I ’m very excited about their future,” he
added. “They just need to learn how to
win some of the close ones. If they work
hard in the offseason on weaknesses and
improving theirskills, I look to see them
be very successful in the future.”

As for his upcoming plans, Canﬁeld
remarked, “There’s several things on
the horizon- I’m not sure yet. I’m going
to be in the game somehow, but I’m just
going to wait and see. Whatever hap-
pens, I’ll be watching these men with a
lot of love and support.”

\

    

Rebekah Prince

 

Nathan Hottle

J

 

Women turn in solid year

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee women’s
swim team may have pushed the limits a
little too far the last too weeks, but they
still emerged with a successful record.

One week after racing through the
ODAC/ Atlantic States meet, the lady
Generals had to take on even tougher
competition at the Southern States Cham-
pionships.

The Generals demolished the opposi-
tion at the ODAC Championships. The
second place squad, College of Notre
Dame, was 205 points behind W&L’s
pace.

Head coach Kiki Jacobs was not sur-
prised by the victory.

“We knew going into ODAC’s that
we were the odds on favorite,” remarked
the coach.

W&L was led by junior Rebekah
Prince. Prince turned in three individual
wins along with aiding in three relay
wins. In the 400 IM, Prince broke the
ODAC, Atlantic States, and school
record.

In the 200 back, Prince continued her
efforts as she provisionally qualiﬁed for
the NCAA Championships. In lieu of
these accomplishments, she was awarded
ODAC Swimmer of the Year.

Freshman Megan Wiedmaier and
Bligh Wollner each won two races and
Susan Fisher and Jen Miller won one
race each.

Following the standout team perfor-
mance, Jacobs was awarded the Atlantic
States Coach of the Year honors.

The next weekend proved to be
tougher for the Generals at the Southern
States Championships as they ﬁnished
seventh out of eleven squads.

When asked if the back to back week-
end meets affected the team’s perfor-
mance, Wiedmaier responded, “It did

because the ODAC’s was right in the ‘

middle of our tapering.”

Coach Jacobs agreed, “It was a tough
back-to-back with ODAC’s and South-
ern States.”

Prince once again stood out for the V

Generals, provisionally qualifying for
NCAA’s in the 100 back and for a
second time in the 200 back. The perfor-
mance should be enough to push her

into Nationals. V

“We’re 95 percent sure she’s going
to make it,” said Jacobs.

The 400 freestyle relay squad of
Prince, Wiedmaier, Jen Miller, and Laura
Marshall came up big as well as they

broke the school record by nearly two *

seconds.

Other highlights ofthe meet included
Wiedmaier winning the consolation
ﬂight of the 500 freestyle in a lifetime
best time.

Anne Spencer also posted strong
performances in the 500 free, 200 breast,
and 400 IM.

As the season came to an end, Jacobs
listed the team’s biggest accomplish- V

ments as posting an 8-3 record for the ‘

year, beating Catholic, and Prince’s
school record in the 400 IM and the
school record set by the 400 free relay
squad.

ForJacobs, this season marked a few
milestones.

“This is the ﬁrst year we’ve had a full
squad,” remarked the coach.

Also the seniors graduating this year
are special to Jacobs.

“That was my ﬁrst group that I had to V

work with all four years,” said Jacobs.
Both Wiedmaier and Jacobs re-

marked on the closeness of the team.
Jacobs said, “I think the squad was

pretty tight.” v

Wiedmaier took it on notch farther,
saying, “I think as a team, at the end, the
whole team, girls and guys, came to-
gether.”

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The Generals women’s basketball
team conclude their 1994-95 season last
week, their ﬁrst in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. The team ﬁnished
the season with a 6-18 overall record; 4-
16 in conference play.

Despite their record, the Generals
viewed this season as a learning experi-
ence and an introduction to the caliber of
play in the ODAC.

The team picked up an important win
in their final home game of the season.
The Generals put the pressure on Hollins
early, building a 35-21 lead.

Hollins managed to put together a run
to cut the lead to nine but the Generals
kept pouring on the offense and cruised
to a 62-42 victory. Sandra Holmes again
led the way for the Generals, scoring 17
points and pulling nine rebounds.

The team also set a season mark in
assists with ﬁfteen. The victory in the
ﬁnal home game was a noble way to send
off guard Amy Vogt and forward Amy
Mihal, the team’s only seniors.

Head Coach Terri Dadio felt that the
Hollins game was a good morale booster
for the team with three tough ODAC
teams remaining on the schedule.

“The Hollins game was a good win
for us,” said Dadio. “We played good
defense and shot the ball well. It was a

good ﬁnal game in the Warner Center
and it will provide a good direction for
this team next year.”

Later in the week, the Generals faced
a Roanoke team with a high-octane of-
fense. The Generals’ defense held
Roanoke to only 58 points but shot only
21 percent themselves and fell 58-31.
Holmes, however, had another strong

game with 12 points and 10 boards.
The team dropped their ﬁnal two

Women’s basketball ‘
ends difﬁcult season -

games of the season at Bridgewater "d
Randolph-Macon. In the Bﬁdggjwier
game the Generals were able to ﬁght
back from several large deﬁcits but could,
never claim the lead.

With forward Amy Mihal sidelined
with a virus, the Generals lacked the
strength in the paint to contend with
Bridgewater.

The Generals ended up losing 62-45.?
Holmes remained steady, tallying 18
points and grabbing 10 rebounds. Stacy
Williams also reached double ﬁgures
with thirteen.

Randolph-Macon also managed to;
get the jump on the Generals early on in
the contest, racing toa42-1 9 lead. W&L
only shot 33 percent, in contrast to R-
MC’s 52 percent, resulting in a 72-45.
Sandra Holmes once again led the way ‘
in scoring and rebounding for the team,
recording 11 and 10 respectively.

Coach Dadio and the women’s bas-
ketball team have every reason to look
forward to next season. The Generals’
Sandra Holmes returns for her senior‘
year.

Her numbers this season were im-
pressive: 12.8 points and 8.2 rebqxﬂls
per game. She recorded a double-double
in eight games. ,

The team also returns their other
three top scorers. Because of the small
size of the team, the ﬁve freshmen were
able to contribute regularly and should
have an increased role next year.

Dadio has also indicated that she
expects a strong class of incoming fresh-
man players. Plus, after one year of

seasoning, W&L will have a better idea
of what to expect from its ODAC com-
petitors. ‘

Commenting on the past season,
Coach Dadio said, “We improved with
each game, and we’re looking forward
to continuing that improvement next
year while adding some talented fresh- *7
men.”

Lb

 

