1*

 
 

 

V‘JA!!t-ii!\!rT%"?‘t}1‘x‘ V
I}f'.T'.7.‘  '

5.-‘.«l-wt.“ =~
’ .‘ ?M~<w*

 
 

3 Good man
9.. Qprica reviewed

Emorg and Hcnrg shuts

down W&L Football

IE

he Ring-tum Iﬂlti

VOLUME 94, NO. 2

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

September 16, 1994

EC approves $295,545 budget

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

At 3:30 a.m. this morning, the Executive
Committee voted upon the complete version of
their $295,545.44 budget.

After 39 student organizations requested
funds totaling $372,451.78, the EC was forced
to cut roughly $80,000 from organizations as
diverse as the Preston Society and Men’s Panel.

After preliminary deliberation, the EC was
able to reduce the budget to $298,879.24, and

‘ continued to reduce the budget further, but will

not release the pared-down version until this
afternoon. The committee will vote again Sept.
26 after student groups have had a chance to
view the proposed budget.

The most bitter debate in the EC office last
night concerned the funds requested by the
Student Bar Association.

Law students contribute the same activities
fees that undergraduate students do, but the

turn allocates funds to law

augmentation of a separate

school organizations

Undergraduate and law
members of the EC dif-
fered greatly in their view-
point on the SBA, and the
$45,000 requested was
hotly debated.

Many undergraduates
felt that they were “subsi—
dizing” the law students’
social opportunities and a
question was made of
whether the law students
should get a ﬁgure equal to
their contribution in stu—
dent activities fees.

After subtracting $25
per student for the Student
Pavilion, a fixed expense
that was contracted by the
1984 EC, the law students
contribute $40,700.

As this number was

 

Toles

reserve fund the organiza-
tion keeps to overcome the
problem of a non—coincid-
ing fiscal year (the law
schoolbeginsclasses about
three weeks before the un-
dergraduates), the EC de-
cided to go with that fig-
ure.

Other large allocations
included the Student Ac-
tivities Board, which
landed $70,000 after pre-
liminary deliberations. The
EC members were pleased
with the ideas and enthusi-
asm of this year’s SAB
leaders.

“Even though they are
KA’s, I think they have
some good ideas,” said EC
secretary William Toles, a
third-year law student.

publicist, sophomore Hollis
Leddy.

“There is a lot of energy
pumping through the SAB
right now,” she said.

The SAB plans to have
new activities to appeal to
every student, such as a jazz
band and comedians.

The Calyx, which lost
$12,000 last year, was given
$26,000, about $8,000 more
than last year, with precau-
tionary advice on raising
more funds this coming
year.

TheRing-tumPhi,which
also lost money after hav-
ing its budget slashed by
$10,000 from 1992-93 to
1993-94, was given a slight
increase to $5,1 00, less than
half of its request.

The Trident had to re-

SBA must request its funds from the EC, and in

close to the actual request of the SBA, with the

Busy Rush schedule
entering final week

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

All but 10 freshmen males are busy investigat-
ing fraternity houses in this year’s newly organized
Rush.

Senior IFC president Kevin Batteh said Rush is
going very well. He said the Rush schedule was
rearranged this year. Last year freshmen had open
contact where the fraternities could do whatever
they wanted with the freshmen such as hiking in the
country or going to ski resorts. The freshmen then
had open houses where they visited all the fraterni-
ties for thirty minutes each. After that, they turned
in preference cards and formal rush began.

This year, freshmen males visit all the houses
first. Then they have open contact before formal
Rush starts. Batteh said the open house dates were
pushed to the weekends so freshmen could concen-
trate on their academic work.

Senior IFC vice-president Christopher
Lamberson said the administration wanted Rush to
be shorter this year to prevent freshmen from being
distracted from their work.

Lamberson said last year the open houses didn’t
serve their purpose.

“Open houses are meant to show freshmen all
the 14 houses,” said Lamberson.

Lamberson said that becauseopen houses were
two weeks later last year, freshmen already had
some preferences before they had seen all the
houses.

IFC treasurer senior Brian King said IFC mem-
bers have been monitoring the Rush process to
make sure the parties are dry (i.e. no alcohol.) He
said this rule is new in being fully enforced this
year. He said if something were to happen to the

freshmen, the whole fraternity system could be
held liable.

He said the members also make sure that at least
three houses are present at any fraternity party
during open contact.

. Kingsaid the Rush cou_nselor§,_ who take the

freshmen to the open houses, also make sure there
are no Rush violations. The Rush counselor system
was implemented last year.

Still some of the freshmen males ﬁnd Rush to be
a little overwhelming.

“After about the 13th open house, it gets a little
boring,” said freshmen John Harper.

Freshmen Robert Hughes had similar feelings,
but he said he enjoyed it nonetheless.

“It’s overwhelming going to ﬁve houses at
once,” said Hughes. ‘‘I knew it would be a way to
meet some people. I just wanted to check out things
and see what was going on.”

Harper said he is rushing because he sees spe-
cial beneﬁts in joining a fraternity.

“I think they constitute the majority of your
social life, “ he said. “You also get lifelong friends.
When you graduate, you get a network through
other chapters if you’re looking for a job.”

However, some freshmen males decided not to

rush. Freshmen Jason Sorens said he had some,

problems with the fraternity system.

“I feel it’s kind of a way to buy friends,” he said.
“I prefer to pick and choose my own friends.”

He also said he considered the financial costs of
joining a fraternity and decided it wasn’t for him.

“I don’t think I’m losing out,” he said. “Every
time they had Rush, I was out with my friends.”

Freshmen Michael Bailey said he decided not to
Rush because of time constraints with basketball.

“I don’t think it’s [Rush] the thing for me,” he
said.

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Along with its new loca-
tion, the Ca-
reer Devel-
opment and
Placement
Office has
improved
services to
offer and a
new face to
help imple-
ment them.

The new
location in
the Mattingly
house, or the
old Sigma
Chi house,
allows the
staff “to be
together on
one floor,”
and “gives us the sense of a
unit working together,” said
Beverly Lorig, director of the

 

Blackburn

The recruiting suite adjacent to
the library has three interview-
ing rooms and a refreshment

Career Developement
and Placement gets new
home and staff members

CDPO. The previous location,
in the University Center, had
the office spread out, with
rooms on both ﬂoors.

The new office has a larger

area for interviewing times.
Another change is the addi-
tion of Career Coordinator
Amy Blackburn, who came to
W&L from the C.W. Post Cam-
pus of Long Island University,
where she was a Cooperative
Education Coordinator and Ca-
reer Counselor. Blackburn will
head up the internship program
and “try to develop a more
complete, more defined intem-

library area
with more
space for stu-
dents to
b r o w s e
through career
materials.

“When they ship program.”
first see it,” “The resources I inherited
Lorig said, when I got here were a little

“students just
stare and say,
‘Wow, it’s so
big!”

The materi-
als in the li-
brary are now
separated by
color codes
and have cata-
log numbers.

haphazard, only because [the
CDPO] was involved with so
many other things,” said
Blackburn.

The CDPO has been work-
ing on ways to enhance the
services offered, including
workshops.

“We’ll be offering a differ-
ent kind of self-assessment
workshop,” said Ruth Lewis,
assistant director of recruiting.

I» See CD&P, page 2

Sophomore Amy Gorham commended SAB

group and present its budget twice because its

 

Gorham

members misunderstood
the budget process and
their own accounts, and
ended with $4188.24, its
request after the EC ex-
plained to the members
that they were not to “pad”
their budget in their sec-
ond presentation.

Another sometimes
controversial organiza-
tion, the American Civil
Liberties Union, pre-
sented a budget of $1490
which was summarily dis-
missed by the EC because
the ACLU has a political
orientation and the EC has
a policy against funding
political groups.

The tentative figures
for each of the student
organizations will be
posted outside the EC of-

fice in the University Center by 5 p.m. today.

Bocci at its best

Photo by Betsy Green for Te Ring-tum Phi

tures on Page 4.

W&L Bocci Ball Commissioner, David L. Howison makes a measurement demanded by Allen
Gillespie of The Spectator during the four team cut-throat bocci game played on Thursday. The
second round of the 1993-94 W&L Bocci Ball Tournament was played on the Lee-Jackson Bocce
Ball Field (Commissioner Howison’s front yard). The Dorm Counselors, The International House,
The Spectator and The Ring-tum Phi all vied for the chance to continue to the third round of the
tournament. The Dorm Counselors placed first, followed by The Ring-tum Phi. Additional pic-

Sullivan brings new
insight to law school

. By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

“The challenging thing in le-
gal education is, how should law-
yers be trained? and what is the
function of law school?”

Barry Sullivan has recently
joined the Washington and Lee
law faculty, as dean of the law
school, with a commitment to
“the continuum of legal educa-
tion.”

“We ask what are the respec-
tive responsibilities of the legal
profession and the law school,
and where do you strike the bal-
ance,” Sullivan said in an inter-
view with the Phi. “We must
realize that it is all a continuum,
what I call the continuum of legal
education, and we are only a part
of the continuum.”

A very successful lawyer and
an experienced educator himself,
Sullivan is in a great position to
help strike that balance at Wash-

ington and Lee Law. Sullivan
comes from his position as a part-
ner at Jenner & Block in Chi-
cago, where he worked for 13
years after his stint as assistant to
the solicitor general of the United
States with the Department of
Justice.

He graduated cum Iaude with
honors from Middlebury College
in 1970 and received his JD.
from the University of Chicago
in 1974, where he was associate
editor of the University of Chi-
cago Law Review and National
Honor Scholar.

Sullivan’s W&L connection
come from his clerkshipwith U.S.
Circuit Judge for the U.S. Court
of Appeals, John Minor Wisdom
’25. Wisdom recommended
Sullivan to the search committee
which later decided to offer
Sullivan the deanship.

Sullivan has reacted very posi-
tively to Washington and Lee
and says that he appreciates the
emphasis of the faculty.

“We have a terriﬁc faculty
committed to teaching and inter-
ested in research, without being
inordinately interested in one or
the other,” he said. “Many of our
peers in terms of ranking exalt
research over teaching; we don’t
do that.”

He was also very interested in
the honor system at Washington
and Lee.

“The honor system is really a
part of what the university is about
and what the law school is about,”
said Sullivan. “When you enroll
in the law school, you are mak-
ing a commitment to be a person
of honor for the rest of your life.”

Sullivan is very committed to
instilling the students of the law
school with a sense of honor.

“The legal education is not
just about acquiring a certain
body of knowledge,” he said. “A
profession dedicated to the pub-
lic good requires its practitioners
to be dedicated to honor.”

He gave the first-year law stu-

dents a serious talk about honor
on Aug. 19.

“By saying that you are ready
to study law —— and to undertake
the responsibilities placed on law-
yers in this society — your are
representing that you are pre-
pared to live, not just three years,
but a lifetime of honor,” he told
the as embled students.

“['lfhe license to practice law]
represents an extraordinary privi-
lege. It is a great privilege to
stand before a court and say ‘ May
it please the Court. I appear to-
day on behalf of the Board of
Trustees of Washington and Lee
University, or the Public Service
Commission of West Virginia,
or the Judges of the State of Illi-
nois, or the most impecunious,
wretched and despised person
who has exhausted all hischances
in life except for you.’

“You may stand, as I have

it See DEAN, page 2

 

 

 

THE BLUE RIDGE
AND BEYOND

The World

-»~'k.~.,-\.,......—-~»-» ”"' ”'"' ' -”‘

U.S. prepares for possible Haiti invasion

The White House again warned Haiti’s military leaders to give up
power or face consequences. US aircraft carriers headed toward the
Caribbean appear to signal an imminent invasion of Haiti.

Cuba and U.S. reach agreement

ln an agreement reached last Friday, the US agreed to allow in at least
20,000 Cuban immigrants a year. Cuba promised to stop the mass exodus
from the country. The police ban on ﬂeeing the country has cleared the
beaches for the first time in weeks.

Population conference sets goals

At the U.N. population conference in Cairo, 180 nations endorsed a
program designed for slowing population growth. The conference focused
on birth control and economic development. During the conference, U.N.
officials handled objections from Muslim countries and the Vatican
dealing with reproductive rights and abortion.

Presidents of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia
meet to work out federation government

The presidents of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia met this week to try
and save from collapse the federation the two governments formed six
months ago. The federation was intended to unite the Croats and Muslims.
The organization has not yet resolved its differences, though leaders of
both nations were optimistic after talks Tuesday.

The Nation

Pilot of plane that crashed into White House
was legally drunk at the time

The truck driver who crashed his plane into the White House grounds
Monday had cocaine and alcohol in his system when he died. Frank
Corder’s blood alcohol content was .045 percent, above the .04 percent
limit for pilots. Corder’s accident, believed to have been a suicide attempt,
has raised questions concerning White House security.

Clinton signs crime bill into law

President Clinton signed the crime bill into law Tuesday and appealed
to American citizens for their help in implementing it. The law bans certain
types of assault weapons and allows the death penalty for more federal
crimes. At the ceremony outside the White House, Clinton urged Ameri-
cans to help their communities and law enforcers to make the new law
effective.

Baseball strike ends the season early
The Baseball season was prematurely ended Wednesday, for the first

time since 1904. '-Sources said little hope was left for the season because -

of the strike. The baseball commissioner officially announced the end of
the season Wednesday afternoon during a conference. The baseball season
has not been canceled in 90 years, hanging on through world wars and
depression.

NASA extends Discovery’s mission

NASA extended space shuttle Discovery’s voyage to ten days, adding
an extra day so the crew could test the damaging effects of the space
shuttle’s exhaust. On Wednesday, the shuttle released a $14 million sun-
gazing satellite named Spartan, that will focus on the sun’s outer atmo-

sphere.
ﬁi

The State
Lt. Governor Beyer asks for an end of parole
for violent criminals

Lt. Governor Donald Beyer said Tuesday that Virginia should end
parole for violent offenders now instead of waiting for the govemor’s plan
to abolish parole next year. Governor George Allen said early parole for
criminals already in jail would be impractical and lead to many lawsuits.
The Govemor’s plan would end parole for those convicted of crimes
committed after January 1st.

The Community
Annie Lee’s Body Moved to Lexington

The remains of Annie Carter Lee were the only ones from Robert E.
Lee’s immediate family buried outside of Lexington, and a North Carolina
health director has finally given the go-ahead to have the remains exhumed
and brought back to Lee Chapel.

Annie Lee was buried in Warrenton, N.C. when she died of an illness
while taking shelter during the Civil War. The descendants of Lee
attempted to have her body brought to the family crypt in Lee Chapel after
reports of vandalism at Annie Lee’s gravesite.

Health Director Dennis Retzlaff says the exhumation can go ahead if
none of Lee’s descendants object. He is still in the process of contacting all
of them.

The Campus

Publications Board Chooses Officers

The Washington and Lee publications board named senior Sarah
Gilbert as president last night. Senior Susan Deutsch was elected as vice
president, and Laura Purcell as secretary.

The publications board is made up of the editors and business managers
of the Calyx, The Ring-tum Phi, Journal of Science, Ariel and Political
Journal.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily
Baker.

 

 

Doggy style

The Rin -tum Phi Se tember 16 1994

 

 

Photo by Betsy Green for The Rmg-tum Phi

Two of the many dogs that roam the Hill enjoy the nice weather of the past few days in front of the Commerce
School. The dog on the left is Severn Duvall’s Irish Setter, Andy. The dog on the right was tied to the banister and
left to amuse himself while his owner attended classes.

New law dean brings rich experiences

In» DEAN, from page I

done, between him and the death penalty, for a crime
he may not have committed. Surely, Justice Holmes
was right when he said that one can live greatly in the
law.”

Sullivan’s experience in the legal world has been
largely appellate, consisting of taking cases which
had already been decided in trial courts on to appeals
courts, at the district, state and federal level.

The cases he argued and for which he wrote briefs
were as varied as civil rights and a series of cases on
railroad re—organization.

The railroad reorganization cases occupied much
of his time, and c0nc'ern'e'd so many unusual points of
law that they were often brought to appeals courts.

“It got to the point that most of the cases cited by
both sides in these issues were precedents which I had
argued or written briefs for,” said Sullivan.

For the future, Sullivan has no changes or im-
provements planned for the law school, but he does
plan to teach a spring semester course on Supreme
Court practice, in which students will practice argu-
ing and writing opinions on cases that will be coming
up before the Supreme Court this year.

He also plans to teach an undergraduate course,
perhaps in the 1996 spring term, as a way of bringing
his experience to the other side of the bridge.

Right now, however, he is content to remain
wholly in his role as dean.

_ “l’m glad that l’m not [teaching],” he said. “I’m
finding the administrative job enough to fill my
plate.” »

 

Sullivan

CD&P Gets
New Look

it CD&P, from page 1

“They will be more interactive and
hopefully allow students to know them-
selves better.”

At resume workshops, students will
break into groups and critique sample
resumes, a change from the usual lec-
ture format of the workshops.

The first resume workshop will be
September 19 from 4 to 5 PM, and the
first interviewing workshop will be the
21st, also from 4 to 5 PM. Both are in
room 109 of the University Center.

Future plans for the CDPO include
“an invigorated outreach to the fac-
ulty,” said Lewis. “We want to support
them in their departments and ask them
for their support” with opportunities
for students.

The CDPO tentatively plans to add
their services to the Liberty network.

“We’re hoping to create a database
of internship opportunities that stu-
dents can access without leaving their
dorm rooms,” said Blackburn. _

The staff emphasized that the office
is for students of all grades, not just
seniors.

“No matter what position they’re
in, students need to make the most of
their resources,” said Lewis.

“We’re serving as the turning point
where students are moving from jeans
and Tevas to a more professional im-
age,” said Lorig.

So far, the staff has received posi-
tive feedback from students and fac-
ulty on the new office.

“We hope it will be a place that
students feel comfortable coming to,
someplace with an inviting feeling,”
said Lorig. “We’re here to help.”

The PM//T

Free and elem:/I
well worth it!

If you oorft
0 read it, well

A fresh coat

Photo by Betsy Green for The Rmg-tum Phi

 

oome and beat
you up.-

The cupola of the Gaines Hall Gatehouse got a new coat of paint this week. Scott W.
Beebe, the Director of Special Projects for Buildings and Grounds said that the
repainting was just “routine maintenance.” He said that B&G tried to match the
original color as close as possible. It was the first time since the construction of
Gaines that the Gatehouse was painted.

ti

 

  

 
       

  

 

 
   
    
 

 

. _ . 4 1 e PAGE 3
,_  
, - ., -  _. O
 . h > .
e     r 00 an ll rzca re ica e 216

him; and the president wants to kill him after Leafy slept

M with the first lady, who only did so to obtain a

l» British passport.
S And in the midst of all this moves the good guy, a Scottish
BY KIRK USONG doctor playing Albert Schweitzer to the locals.
Phi Movie Reviewer All of these problems fall in and out, variously coming to
_ _ the top or sinking back, creating a plot which runs like a ride
h ‘ - i . in the bumper cars. _ ' .

A Good Man in Afrtca — One star The situation IS not improved any by the directing from

Some films, like Barcelona and Metropolitan, are de- Bruce Beresford. He treats the piece like a made-for-TV

lightful little finds; they are tremendously under-publicized movie, with standard and boring shots. He keeps the film

and unfortunately overlooked by most people. moving along, without infusing any urgency or alarm. He

One notices their arrival at one or two screens in town, fails to take advantage of the ﬁlm’s large cast or striking

5 attends with bated breath, and leaves the movie theater setting, much less the hectic plot.

grateful for the experience. Then you can look worldly and Even blander than the directing is the acting. Colin Friels

cosmopolitan to your friends when they read about it in the is given the role of Morgan Leafy, and he manages to make

New Yorker two weeks later. this very sympathetic and put-upon character’s troubles a

(This is similar to the grati- matter of no interest to the

1 fication one feels at being the audience whatsoever.The
_ . _ 1%‘, only person in the room to own only thingwhich saves the

h... ._ =  I ' , , .  7 _ aCD from the “hot” band men- other roles from similar

‘ "  A tioned in Spin or Creem.) _ disinterest isthe big-name

' ' 11030 by Betsy Green - ' ' _ ‘A"k~k~k — Go buy this as soon as it comes out on video. I h h
 Corn 1n In arden? 9 And this is precisely the ex _ _ _ “ , _ , _ appea  e actors ave.

 1” y°“ e t0 y g hovinsforwhen ll: ::'.;"::";:,3::1a..Y.:*:.2.l1::“;.z,‘:,‘: ;‘.,$.'.:;:*;fr? mate’  ms
The Lee house garden was recently renovated to make it a prettier place for the I"'°kk°d‘° R°a“°k° “st Mm." ***——— Go see this film now, while it is still on the big the selhmponam Pres"
Wilsons' guests to gather day to watch A Good Man m screen It is worth a few Oscars and the seven bucks you will dent; whereas John

. Afrimi a “me know" mowe pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better Imhgow and D'a"a R‘gg

. . about post-colonial Africa. man can!» portray theeven more self-

Unfortunately I discovered **_ on , tn h be hen f] ,N nh _ important Mr. and Mrs.

vb Black Betty hauntingly action-packed  mean yzzsngseizzabry  
or t is ing a " itt e- own seeiton videotape, especially if you areafano the actors or reprises is ro e rom a

d film": it is really very blasé. director. Still, probably “Better than Cats!” few yeaisagoin TheMedi-

' ° , -—Ih be HBO, d bl ‘ ff °
Walter Mosey creates realistic characters and glamorous anger tm"]Il':ileeslJlz:>[:$:v:tIl:e’r;.si;r<:)i;nl<\l4t()lire mmtmwg r:3<;»;s_ ihhochh yourhrheymrg prghva-h1]gy<he tc(:z]:hM:lr:ta}shhl:lemh<:t(:ghé
_ tution before he was three. Easy also Huckleberry wasn’t racism. 1 remem- gm Leafy’ a Brhish diploma‘ bane, Served on you, education, it is fm, and you are bored, doctoli‘

‘* caught the murderer of Feather’s bered Jim and Huck as friends out on in the fictional west African 50, go ahead and watch  _ ’ Essentially’ A Good
By MICHAEL HEWLETT mother — her grandfather. the nverh I could have bc6(Iile1;:l6l'h(.)ne country of Kihjaja, and his (N11) Starsg I ‘ljiven if its free znd your be]: frlhendpaid he Man inAfn.ca never lives

Phi Staffwriter Ashe cruises the dark, mean streets of them.‘ It is profound an .re es ing ‘roubles with a host of never aughe ar er, trust ine,t IS one suc h. on was,e up to its promise. I was

of L.A. and the glamorous suburbs of observations that make this book so other characters. your time. 01’ at 1635! don 1 W85“? 11 0" I 15- (There 5 expecting a son of clever

_ Beverly Hills, he gives his insights on wonderful to read. . . _ _ . Leafy is undenhe thumb of always MTV.) British comedy of math

I, live always loved detective stories, life.‘ In one beautifully ,crafted scene, Mosley sstorytelling ability is im‘; the British ambassador, High hers, a look at the silliness
3“ the Way from Sherlock “Itis cl" he picks up Mark Twam Sb°0k’HuCk' preSswe' HIS Ymtmg ‘S sp.a1:f and Commissioner Fanshaw. Fanshaw eXP¢cts him to solve all and futility of man, like EvelY’l WaL|gli’s Black Mischief-
ementary, my dear Watson” Holmes to leberry F Wt fresh Th°aI;'.‘l" ‘ff t‘1'1‘;’V::r‘Fl,‘r’i‘S°ingY  the problems which plngue the embassy: a dead servant; an Instead, we have P.G. Wodehouse hitting The Gods MustBe

E“°y°1°P°di3 Brow“ ‘O R053 e l.y . ' arriving “royal” (the Duchess of Ripon, thirty-fourth in line Crazy headlong, and the result is a sad mishmash.

G“)”5 Im3mU -l0"€S- Th6f€f0Ye: mam endmg' For mhswin; to the throne!); Kinjaja’s recently elected president, a cor— A GoodMan inAfrica is boring and disappointing but not
1WaSCUYi0USWh€"15l3Y1edh°3f' buffs’ there are enoug P. 0 rupt former academic; and even a rioting mob. annoyingly bad. The comedy is stale and generally predict-

H‘ ing 3170"‘ W31“ M°5l°Y 3“ l“5 ' tw1.StS to keep you guessmg As if that weren’t enough, Leafy has a host of personal able, the characters simply uninteresting and predictable,
fictitious d6t¢CtiV6, E35)’  A   R M 0 S L E Y unthlhgggldéreates realistic problemstodealwith atthesametime:hisAfrican mistress, and the plot is simply too mess)’ to want to woffl’ with. It is
Rawlins» Hi5 U105‘ T5051“ b°°kv ' . Hazel, wants public acceptance; he might have a venereal without a doubt not worth your money, but perhaps your

Black 39")’: i5 56%;‘ 1k961 L95 ggiggﬁihgugllﬁﬁgﬁfygﬁggié disease; both Fanshaw’s daughter and wife have plans on time, if you got plenty of that to spare.
Angeles where“a ac man in _
K America had the chance to be a hire °f -l3°k5°" Blue _‘° the . .
man for the first time in hun- fnghlenmg 1'°13“°“5hlP l_’°' °
      1 m socie oas 3 cu ura cinema
The novel starts with Easy P3‘:l1° M°“5°-S Mosley dc
Rawlins being tortured by the _ °“5_°a 3 _ ' ,
murder of Big Hand Bruno SCf1beSh1ma15n0”h°k1nd°f because of ﬁlms shown relevant to year but”currently don t have the re-
‘ Xigralin bydhi: Sifgelficlts’ Mosusel §lli)yseyf)rliervi:l(;ui.\‘/iitlivaniieoisbﬁ By KATHLENN QUIRK var‘l‘(l}‘ll/:tcrl;'rtxtl)‘l:>liii1igcontemporary criti l3(i'il(i:switlihteht‘fa<l:ief/:is?::ir?ti)cly1SFii]ii:
wa ene y e co we au ' - . ffw -t . , - _
Lynx, Easy Rawlins is hired to mflrderelri w‘th°“theapr‘(’)‘::; Phi Sta H er cally recognize? fillin: that have not Weédmgs prlid :eFr'SllIf1a€r7I':1iﬁ.i at with Lib
find Elizabeth Eady, or “Black 5<_31e“°°~ °WeV°1'v been shown in oca t caters to cam- Ompu 6 U _ _ '
B .” B ‘ 'd kl himself to be a d6P°"dabl° Movie junkies starved for cultur- ,” 'dG efe. “We also try to show erty can find more information about
A f0Ei'ttI)il(: cgiiiyiintnnyil Vlgeitynig sidekick. With Easy and ally relevant cinema, rejoice! The fall €vl;s11-l:::)wnrfo|-eign-]anguage ﬁlms, the film society as Well aSdngI6;l_0n
known for her habit of leaving lV_l0U§e, M0519)’ °T°3t€5 3 f35' schedule for the Washington and Lee ''we’re open ‘both to the campus upcoming ﬁlms.These inclu e fbgtce
chaos in her encounters with cinzr::[1nglan<]l(tenSef}1;IeI:’<1tf)hi1rl:- Film fsfociety pr<“)‘rRises_an egiiloyablﬁ and the comhnumty, and \;V€ vebgnh pendlhlyeg,_tFahelw;Z,mI:ly9u$t;tﬁ; hrheé
men. His search for her leads 05 CY HOWS 0‘ ' mixo oreign an merican imsasi joyed nemen ons support rom t ea 1 ies, a ,
h‘ ' t th d k t f h - volve readers and make them starts its 15th year at W&L. rou s. We would like to have one or Dazed and Confused for the fall sea-
ni:iillcri1n(<)l arfd ti: CIC1)zIi'l1ll‘JIlf3)?lIy Sf feel a part of the_story. H15 The film society shows its ﬁlms, tgwo Syemagjc ﬁlm festivals during the son.
3 race relations in the context of d¢S°T1Pl1°n5 Of life "1 1961 chosen to offer W&L and the commu-
the Civil Rights Movement in l-;A~-t3ﬂddAfxT_l;§Y1§33?l1)5l3t"(:lll1<1’l)‘: pitylrrhovies not ordhnai;ly.shpwnt:t
1961. “"8 W9 - 1515 3 5 1 oca t eaters,onwee en nig sin e
While he searches for Betty, A N E A S Y R A W L i N S M Y S T E 5°°i3l¢9mm°m31'_Y3"d3g°°d Troubadour Theater, located at Main
Easy must deal with visiting his story Wllh the 5k'" 0f 3 H135‘ and Henry ’streets. Because of the V
A‘ dying fnend,Man1n smith, His ten _ _ Troubadour s popularity, there will  
real estate deal is in the hole, and . _ _ If_ 3“)’thmg: M0515)? W1!‘ now be three showings of each ﬁlm:
Mouseisreleasedfromprisonandlook- “A few liberal libraries and the make you think hard about the tri- Fnday at3;()0 ann Saturday at7;0(land
ing for the person who turned him in to school system had wanted to ban the umphs and tragedies of human life. 9;3()_‘ “stndenlnngerest has cons1der-  
the police. Easy also takes care of his book because of the racist content. Maybe that is why he is one of Presi- ably Increased 1n the past few years.
two adopted children, Jesus and Liberal-minded whites and blacks ' dent Clinton s favorite mystery wnt- we ﬁnd that very enchuraglng, said
‘Jr Feather. Jesus has not spoken a word wanted to erase racism from the world. ers. Mosley IS an author who has_some- ﬁlm society facnhy ndv1sorD;ckGrefe.
since Easy got him out of child prosti- I applauded the idea but my memory of thing important to say and says it well. Th? ﬁhn sohlely ls at:tudent-fat¢_:ulty  1,‘
organization t at mee .severa imes
. o . . 0 1 each year to select which films they .
  m  S     will show.Since there is no charge for e n 5
g_. g y admission to the shows, the film soci- g’
. .. . ' bothlf f'tsf d'
a dozen pioneers and Indians living in duced to the town of Whatcom along g(3;nr‘°t§:':::c:tiv‘; Cgmhgihlee, fun. a I‘
the town of Whatcom, Washington. with its gold strikes, railroad busts, its ,b . t th door and from the ‘J e
By ANNIE DILLARD Although it is not a particularly murders and its romances. Com" utltonsa d £180 receives a if‘
Phi Staffwriter fast paced book, the many characters _ In addition, and surprisingly more i°::)T1mB‘:az’ ghto d,s office each ygear
f of The Living will quickly steal your interestipg, you Wlll. learn ‘each
attention and by the ﬁrst time you reach character s story of survival, which in
If, once you have settled into the the last page, you will be sorry to see many casesendsultimately in untimely
routine here, you feel like taking a their stories end. _ failure. ‘ _ .
Sunday aftemoonofffromallthehustle In the first chapter, you will the ‘ 'lhh1smifhureofsocietyandﬁuwival
around here — maybe with a cup of introduced immediately to t ‘e isw atwi eepyou urning epages C d he 
A coffee andabook, I suggest picking up Fishbums, as they debark from a ship for several hours at a time and allow 5 l. E P P 0 T 5 E R F 0 X Y T    t l  i  
Annie Dillard’s The Living. ready to begin a new life in Whatcom. you to take a break from life in the fast L.
This book traces the lives of at least Through them, you will be intro- moving nineties. M E C 0 X ﬂ U D T S L 0 D X S
., AAAOETABARCEOOU AW lllllllllil
ll '...n0t liltll — 19 Political disorder
‘moss but a duper.‘ 20 —- tit. (footnote .
l llllen one light I 43 llcturzl on ll)W¢S(~ alil>rei]n‘itt‘tul) R N G T N M R 0 B I M R C R B M  mo 
study Andy Iarllo '5 went abbr. 21 have ed on I
works (3 uds.) ' M Pondmd Flexible Flyer  .
4. 12 Enrollment into 45 Belonging to Ir. 24 Glorlly T 0 A L A 5 3 A 0 E V I 0 T P  
College Starr 25 Prospero's servant - -
 ;l:‘f“l": *::=.::'; *7  .. ::.;I".:.:.~::.:;. I P I 6 a A I r n o r o u u o lll”ll“°" llllllll
l6EltU '4srmi't t
8 9 021 2 17 t::.::.:, small .;.:.:n , T E ,, , L T D ,, V Y 0 A V E llllllllll lllllll
( l8 Follows a recipe 52 Snall school in Can» ten (abbn) _
3 4 25 5 direction ton. Olllo (2 ads.) 30 Fictional hypnotlst   
l9 Belonging to llr. 53 Upon wages fit): 32 Style exeavlltied L S R D u S R E E T A G N X N
Pacino c assic was. by Picasso
7 8 9 22 of land measure 33 ‘She's ---..."  
23 lteets I poker bet DOWN (tron 'Flishdance') L U V E S E A X I R E F E O A
‘ l l til i
2 33 4 5 6 26  e.g. i "3:sinm°£...eN ii  9 me A R N E T S T 
27 Belonging to Player 3 Fourth estate 37 Ilovnn's under- V T N A 0 I R T
9 28 incl isoiis I 389l',;;im tn  
t t ll -k rd t —-
egitieior libelnmmo 40—bun-er r l‘ T R D E V I A C E P T L P N
9 1 2 3 4 30 Train for i hoxlng Hell-known king 42 '...for if I -—-  
Iiatcll 7l5l to Caesar my...‘ 5 U B M F R r.
5 6 31 —— and the own mnlng um 44 Actress Gibb: Y E F A a I 0 N 
32 gelwnt: E Confused (2 ads.) 46 Afrtcin antelope 
recess oils 1 -—- ll slt 47 Hel -ll IV band-
9 0 1 35 Diet sullplelent ll ltnst ihietyliate leidcrnm D R E S P A N X Y V N A i. 0 T 
h (al>br.) l2 Lu: a sailboat 49P1nce--- _ 
38 Scottish hlstorlan 13 Cash ister ta ( l t )
2 and philosopher (2 ads. ’ so léliellé, 3". S N 0 ll M u s v o T A E v A N Esmpm RT
3 39 College in men- 14 En — (as a mole) Stitlon Zebra" . in
ville, Pa. 15 Auto racing son of 51 1965 fil , ‘-—- _
40 Inc Venerable — lllcliard Petty Ryan's £iipress' T H E 5 I H C N A R F C R 0 W  
© Edward Jul lus

 

 

Senior Drew Hammond of the Dorm Counselors prepares
to throw the palina, the small ball bocci players attempt to
place the other balls near. Grand Commisioner Howison is
visible in the background supervising the play.

 

Allen Gillespie of The ectator a bocci ball towards the palina in opes of scoring

  

Howison brings bocci ball b

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi News Editor

The old Italian game of Bocci has
returned to Lexington for another year.

Washington and Lee Bocci Ball
Commissioner David L. Howison offi-
ciated the second round of the 1993-94
Bocci Ball Tournament on Thursday.
Four teams competed for the right to
advance to the third round of the tour-
nament. The Dorm Counselors placed
first, followed by The Ring-tum Phi.
The International House came in third,
and T heSpectator, represented only by
senior Allen Gillespie, finished
dead last.

Howison declined to comment on
who would advance to the next round.

For those unfamiliar with bocci, it is
played with one small ball, the palina,
and eight larger bocci balls. The goal
is to place as many balls as possible
closer to the palina than the other team.
The game does require some skill to
get the bocci balls near the palina,
although j unior Paul Howe of the Dorm
Counselors felt that luck was also a
factor in the game.

It is unclear what other teams re-
main in the running because Howison
has refused to comment on the status
of any teams.

The Ring-tum Phi, September 16,1993

L» , . . 4...... ...--«.2... .  _; . »"i"*"
Phi team captain Sarah Gilbert throws her bocci ball as members of the Dorm Counselors
stand out of range awaiting their turn to throw the bocci balls.

enough points to recoup a opening throw with a score of negative eight. Although
Gillespie tried hard, coming close to a positive score, during the round of double point
play, his balls rolled outside the playing area, causing him to get eight negative points.

 

    

 

  

   

Members of the International House attempt to put their bocci balls into scoring position.
On the right, members of the Phi’s team can be seen heckling the International House
team. Although the Phi slammed all of the other teams, it was not given any of the often

 

The Eng-tum Phi 97 gears old

and we still come once a week

   
  
  
  
   

Smit11- 
S-C Word Pr
Almost New,
D WPr1'I1ter  
$ 600 348-1634

a'uQ'R%%'¥&°hW‘\o‘a‘<-‘s*i"¢?i’n?Ri:iE¥§

  ﬂ Eliliprmmintg Ellltrsir at ire

E...-Mgg Eirittent me Qrititttrz
I 33 Fri., Sept. 16 - Slialze

 
    

   

.~sv.9;r.-,:xrn-.v.-,:'.»z.~'.\‘ez'.«-‘

    

 - :-

‘mt

4,M,_M,741, Sat, Sept. 1.7 - String’ Dusters 
§m1m.M;I"3m'Tl1urs., Sept. 22 - Christine 

Fri., Sept. 23 - Tim Reynolds 
Sat, Sept. 24 - Killer Williams

 Amazing Late Night Breakfast
 Thur-sdaq, Fridau,
Saturdau 2-5 a.m.
Monday Night Football

Specials - 4 .m. - I a.m.:
£3.50

    
 
 

  
    
 
 

      
      
 
   
     

Bu

 

  
  
 
 

um AHEAD roe THE

I6 Em) or EASON
CLOSE-OUT Alf

through September

Hours Mon - Fri 9 -5 Sat 9 - Noon

FRANK’S PIZZA
463-7575

Hot & Cold Subs - Salads - Dinners - Beverages

Please mention this ad when calling in an order

 

offered but rarely awarded “heckling points” by esteemed Bocci Commisioner Howison.
1 medium 14" CHEEgg4% 2 TOPPING PIZZA VARNER & POLE
WITH THIS COUPON Specializing in Unfinished
__ _______ _ _(§Sl‘_°E) ________ _ _ Furniture and Shades
01'
2 Medium 14" CHEE§'ﬁ (392 TOPPING PIZZAS 19 s, Randolph 
WITH THIS‘ COUPON Lexington, VA 24450
________ __“§?‘_“£SL_________ 463-2742
30   oocooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
10 Minute Pick-UP e you looking for Lexington

Prescription Center?!
Yes, we’ve moved to our new building at

112-B Houston St.
463-9166

Not within walking distance?!
No Wheels?

  

 

uzxmarou
BICYCLE

SHOP

- Foaturln Trek
- Dlamo Back
0 Giant - Salon & Service
0 Pick-Up & Delivery Available
- Jansport Bags & Packs

 
    
      
  
  

  

  

 

:_oui_:_::I2iAN
cL_oT1JtNq -TAcI4-.i:_\\/r;_L_i2.Y- C,'lFT.b

0N:>|GNt~4;.NT
tTI;.M_‘> N coon CONDITION \\/t;1_c0M;
I r \\/.\\/AbLm\lGTON :>TtzI;_LI_T

(N:xT To |.NVLR.:>lTY bPOIzT\V§.AlZ)

705 464-9500

 

Don’t look elsewhere, we are as close as your telephone!
Enjoy our FREE delivery on all your
prescriptions and over-the-counter needs.
If you do have transportation and are in a hurry, try our

drive-thru window.
Our hours are
onday thru Frida 8:30
0000 000000 00000

    

RO0M~

 

Subs & Pizza Deli

-E ' k
-3 $51161 1Qc)r0tfP§r?;/1t.S'ubs

Wednesday Special
Large Cheese Pizza
(Np 9 .1 $9 f  (toppings extra)
we  

CALL FOR FREE
DELIVERY

463-5757

em‘ to w {n

Satufelreé

tilalr.

}

 

   

The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1994 PAGE 5

     
     
     
    
   
 
  
    

  

t<.ee,. on top at we News
From» Lﬁexlwgtew and i’.l~e /W anal L2 cowxwxuwity

Sulascrllae to lilxe ‘Dual

   

  
 

 

K
; Of  $30., \J$\»| C93‘.  G  every vveelc.
K . .
9 O
J us‘: an out we coupon anal sevxel Lt lie
it ‘Tue ’i;>;mg-t,m. ‘F>ic., 13.6. 13°,‘ 899,
,L3ex.Lv\gtev\. V O 
ﬂ 
MCS. Q \/VQV\t £6 SVBSCTE-LC
‘ii
i‘
Q
‘ T - SHIRTS CAPS
K - Can WeDa More For You? to
The answer is YES! If you would like to review our directories, newsletters and disk/CD-ROM
products for a FREE 30-day trial period, please check below and return: S
A El Standard Periodical Directory ............................................. .. $495 N
0 spoon (Publications on CD-ROM) .............  ........... .. sass ‘‘'“°

C! Oxbridae Directory of Newsletters ...................................... .. $395 1_'itie

0 National Directory of Magazines ......................................... .. $395 com pany
3' CI OXMODE (Magazines on Disk) .............................. .. $1,500 scmggﬁ pmuﬂpic Z

O National Directory of catalogs ................................. ..  $295 Address , I I . .,

. . uoxcooe (Catalogs on Disk) ........................... ..'..;.;s995" 7 City State Zip ' ‘ it 0’ ‘ I  nave alwiz or a year

ClNti iDict ofMi u ..................................... ..sa ’ ' V

0 Tieizliliegiemeotirit  ...................................... .. 312: Telephone SWEAT‘ with JACKETS
it 0 Publishing Trends & Trendsetters (1 ox per year) ............... .. $245 A (3 S

EiWh’Priti Wh N I ...................................... ..$ DP i d‘ ‘s d'kl

Cl Ust°lfeadsn(lllfwsleitltte(r-l,)‘li’:cetittr:ri)irect Marketing Leads)  Si  0 viii:  3: lllldyiiligd 3: :3:;fll:lell:;0lNey0iJil1directories.  

A Rockbridge Baths , VA.

it I - , 348-5114

 

 

 

 

     

10. Capital of England/Dense wet air the neck of 3 game;

12. A rough winter fabric; plural Tgfﬂwhgik God “,5 Friday (Abbn) Address

20. Where you plug something in

Located between Subway and the ABC Store in the Rockbridge Square Shopping Center
Phone: 463-7740 — Fax: 463-1073

13. How often TGIF outlet gets new 15

merchandise “ n 2. A dog’s bark and then some . 21_ “Life begins at ——91 (X2) Phone .
15- Really Strong 005“ H the 0 4. “Sounds like” a word for stealing 2:," A classy legumc Occupation
16. Fake collar, or a brand of work came/plus muscular ﬁt physique

25. English game played on a horse

42 _—

0 ‘ . . U U
DO YOU Want Credll Cards? ' UNI-CARD.BOX 220645..»HOLLYWO0D.FL 33022 ,.
A. I I
‘Now you can have the most mcogmud p .  |wam‘MASTER(‘ARDO Immediately. 3
credit are In the world EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I ,= 1oo% nuamuueani I WHEN you RIDE
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEIWREI | |    
, ‘ ‘ Mestercardo the cn.-dltcard you I I THE rm“) 9”‘ “AVE
sroREs.—1Um — N11-: — . r
EMERGENCY CASH-—1‘lCKETS—RESTAURAl\TI‘S— ADDRESS DIFFERENT MEANING.
Horn-:Ls—Mo'rEi.s—c.As-CAR RENl‘Al.S— : STATE ZIP :
, REPAlRS—AND 10 BUILD YOUR CREDIT Rrrriuci ' CITY L — ' Alcohol quickly affects yourjudgment
" No turn downs! ‘STUDENT? 7 Yes N0 35} ' balance, and coordination. Don’t
N red.t h ks, ' drink and ride. Or your last
 ‘re, 0 c I. c ec ' . ' ' SlGNATURE ' drink might be your last drink
Il‘P‘?r,.tIg‘;§°g‘is»:“ No secumy deposit ' More Nhsla()rd Is a registered uudenmit d Masteuouu lnlcmuioml Inc. : "°T°'‘°'°LE 3”" "°'"‘”"'°" 
G“ MO I
“ - 9‘ SEND THE COUPON Tonml I MAIL THIS N0 RISK COUPON TODAY I
‘. ‘uca YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING. '
I‘ n‘ ' 'n-----u-—-n---n------—-G-
4 -r '---------------------------------1
A TGIF Catalog Outlet’s E N I :
Fashion Expert Contest! I
 . .1 : PACK and MAIL : ~
Grand Prize  I - I
I

* $30()_()() = iglllllllg n MAILING CENTER :
G.ft C ff. - - ' - : “Mailing Services to ﬁt your busy lifestyle” I

IE 61' ‘lN'1C'a'[C - : ¥--.-- - I I

veryone ins. - °
‘‘ Bring in this crossword puzzle  I - ‘ I : . NO more Ion hnes at the 0st one :
with I I I HIIIII   ‘ ‘

-10 wo d correct, Take 10‘7 Off - I ‘i  N >1: ' * I
anyrlsitem of your choice); —  : : h ' I  " . '_'. "_  “K Aulahorlzed  * I

4 -20 wor3ds correcft, Take 115% ,0“: I tillll Htllillllallltil I §.__""‘ *Ma1lboX Rentals I
any items 0 your c oice, ; - . - - - I jg. * _ _ * |
-OCf<;mp|<=5ts;d puzzfler Tak;29%  - I . . ""\.,,,_‘ Package Recieving |

any items 0 your c oice. ;~   
That’s additional savings off ou  . : :
“' esverydaty (:01? if 158-0 % SIIIIIIIIIIIIII I Other Services include: U.S. Mail, Overnight Delivery, International I
ugges e e rice. , _ _ . . . .
pius enter our grand prize drawing : - ‘ | Dehvery, Packaging Supplies/Service, Copies-Fax, Gift wrapping, |
ACRQSS pants I 5 F h. n ham ‘rm ‘ : Keys made, Notary, Signs, Rubber Stamps :
_ , _ ., ,, ,. -3510‘ r _, _ TGlF17S.M' _

‘ ‘1’f1:AT'9llil§l}l’FYi(°)‘:lll3:t’Sl5l£){‘l3g:”:{5!0 80- ii:  you 2:: :,:'e'°;;':3:‘::‘,,l,/’°k'° ”“"”"° St, 463-9733“ | We wrap, gift wrap, package and send your items. Choose from UPS, U.S. Mail, and I
3' F‘""°“‘ °‘°".‘i“g’ 3 '9' ""° “OM” P"*°° Y°“'°'d°'(E“'°P°‘*" 5P°‘“"3) 7. To travel overastream "°‘”S‘ M°“'S“‘ I all major overnight and international carriers. Just fill out the address label — I

7. Famous Ladies clothing that’s 23. Spanish Dance 8 Take 0, Liﬁ 10- 5:30 I We do the rest” We also Se“ postage Stamps I

bb ' t dC&W r , ' —-’ — .. -

3-  1:;:‘:.::.:°;'::".:z,,,,.,.,.,.,,,,t, ’°;:;:‘::::°;::’::” I I

‘ 53Vl"85 26. Famous names and tags found in when entering through a low Name: I I
| I

| I

| I

| I

L I

 

    

PAGE 8

@112 ﬂing-mm lﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

The DIP/DUI question...

One undeniable fact at Washington and Lee University
is that our bright and beautiful students occasionally
choose to let loose from the strictures of their studies,
have a few beers, and generally make fools of themselves
in the name of fun and relaxation.

As many of these students are of age and legally
capable of doing whatever they deem necessary with
alcohol to relieve all that pent-up energy, we at the Phi do
not have a huge problem with this.

The administration and even the police have verbally
supported our rights to occasionally get, shall we say,
wasted.

Unfortunately, the most popular spots to imbibe in
Lexington are not the same as the spots most students
choose to sleep.

In other words, after one becomes under the inﬂuence,
one must finds one’s way home.

We like to be optimistic, but no one can believe that, for
every drunk person in Lexington during a given night,
there is a willing and available and sober and car-
possessing designated driver.

Often, there is no one who even fits one or two of the
necessary characteristics for conveying an intoxicated
person home.

So, our mythical, 21-year-old, model student decides
to walk home.

After all, this is a small town. Better to risk a few
stumbles along the way then to get behind the wheel of
two tons of unpredictable steel. Right?

Wrong. Lexington’s finest are on the first street comer
past the Palms, and bring our model student back to what
we like to call the slammer to spend the night.

Because he or she decided not to risk endangering
other people’s lives and the possibility of a “driving
under the inﬂuence” arrest, the student is slapped with a
“drunk in public.”

What purpose does this charge serve but to punish

people for choosing not to drink and drive?

If someone is belligerent or passed out in the middle of

Nelson Street, the police would be justified in taking him
or her in. But in the case described above, the usual case,
there is no justification.

How can we avoid the situation? It is not against the

law to become inebriated.

Lexington police, however, have made it effectively

against the law to become inebriated anywhere outside
the privacy of one’s own home.

Quote of the Week:

“The Spectator. Conservative in editorial philosophy,

liberal in bocce (sic).”

---His Excellency, David Howison, Bocci Com-
missioner and World is Leader in Bocci Wisdom, after
Spectator athlete Allen Gillespie sent his fourth out-
of-bounds ball rolling down the Collonade for triple
negative points.

Ellis: itiing-tum iﬂlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

Editorial Page Assistant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi’ is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily front advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-turn Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

HELL_O5

 

c.l9l0

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1994

THE EVOLUTION

OF THE SPEAKING
TRA DI TION , , .

c.1369

U.S. has vested interest in Haiti

At a seminar I attended this summer the question
of Haiti came up; one of the professors suggested that
the United States could and should just ignore Haiti.

The logic behind his state-
ment is obvious. Haiti has

neither nuclear weapons
nor a sophisticated army;
it provides no imports we
cannot get elsewhere, and
Haitian-Americans’ politi-
cal force is non-existent.

 

“political” refugees the U.S. automatically let in until
last month, one will ﬁnd that many Haitians qualify
under the heading of “political” refugees than many
of the Cubans currently at
Guantanamo. This is not to say
that Castro has not persecuted
people for political reasons;
however, as far as I know,
Castro has not advocated wan-
ton torture and murder of inno-
cent people to the extent the

Despite my great reluctance to advocate military
action of any kind, anywhere, I believe invasion is
the only option. I do think it should be an invasion
followed by an almost immediate withdrawal to
avoid charges of American imperialism. The mili-
tary dictatorship should be removed from the island
but only under guidance of the United Nations. If
one looks at the crimes that have been committed
since Aristide’s removal from office, I think Cedras
and other top ofﬁcials could justiﬂably be charged
with crimes against humanity. Under no circum-
stances should we repeat the mistake we made with
Noriega, arresting them under U.S. laws to be tried

Why isthere evenathought military dictatorship of Raoul
of invasion? Cedras has.

The answerto that ques- So why don’t we simply let in U.S. courts.
tion is that we do have a the embargo drivethe dictator-

stake in the future of Haiti. Currently, the U.S. gov-
emment is paying to keep Haitians in detention cen-
ters in Guantanamo. Whether we like it or not, our
money is irrevocably tied up in the future of Haiti.
There is also a more personal side to this. Many
families have been separated by the ban on immigra-
tion from Haiti. These are families who may have
been in the U.S. for years. who have contributed in a
positive way to American society. During my senior
year of high school, a girl, who was still a Haitian
citizen, was called back to Haiti to visit a sick relative.
Despite the fact that she and her family had lived in
Miami for several years, she was not allowed to return
to the U.S. In this time of emphasis on the family, it is
wrong that we are breaking apart families because of
when and where they are emigrating from.

We can also no longer hide behind the excuse that
the Haitian emigration is the result of purely eco-
nomic problems and not political. Admittedly, Haiti’s
economy leaves a lot to be desired; however, I think
if you look at the circumstances of many of the Cuban

refugees, their first com-
plaint about Cuba is the
economy. The majority
of United Nations mem-
bers have recognized the
futility of the Cuban em-
bargo and want the U.S.
to open up trade with
Cuba. Most moderate
Cubans feel the same
way; unfortunately their
voices are drowned out
by the radical exile com-
munity in Miami. If we
simply keep the embargo

from Haiti in the future?

ship out? A few decades ago we instituted a embargo
against Cuba — Castro is still in power. Now, if you
listen to the complaints of the majority of Cuban

on Haiti in place, won’t we be laying the foundation
for an eventual exodus based on economic reasons

The second goal of such an invasion should be to
set up free and open elections. I do not think
Aristide should automatically be put back into
office. It has been approximately four years since

cue--—

I f we simply keep the embargo
on Haiti in place, won’t we be
laying the foundation for an even-
tual exodus based on economic
reasons from Haiti in the future?

Aristide was elected,
almost time for a new
election. If the Haitian
people want Aristide
back in ofﬂce they will
vote for him. At that
point, once the new
president is in ofﬁce,
there is no reason for
an American military
personnel to be in Haiti
except if they are on
vacation.

Perhaps then we can
return the Haitians we

are holding at Guantanamo to Haiti. We can use the
money to help Florida take care of all the immi-

grants that were let in prior to the August blockade.

U.S. does not need to invade Haiti

Al Gore has become the latest mem-
ber of the Clinton Administration to
restate that “one way or another,” that
is, by force of arms if required, the
military regime in Haiti will be re-

pansion of democracy has always been
an important goal of U.S. foreign policy,
it has never been our sole objective. It
is simple-minded to assume that we are
preparing to invade Haiti simply be-

 

moved and re- cause that
placed with the nation is gov-
legitimate emed by an
govemmentof authoritarian
Father Jean- s s t e m .
B e r t r a n d NICHOLAS 14- C1)l’ba isadic-
Aristide. This 9 tatorship (so
is decisive talk WADDY’  is North Ko-
by Clintonian i rea) and
standards; the China iscon-
credibility not trolled by a
only of the ad- small party

ministration but also of the United
States has been staked on the success
or failure of a third-rate military junta
now governing one of the world’s most
obscure nations.

Given this bluster on the pan of
Clinton and his subordinates, we can
take it virtually for granted that an
invasion will occur if the military
regime is not dissolved within the com-
ing months. Basic questions still re-
main, however, even if the course of
U.S. policy is now set: are we right to
place such a high priority on the resto-
ration of democracy in Haiti? And,
even if this is a worthwhile goal, is
Father Aristide the right man for the
job?

We might answer the first question
by making it clear that, while the ex-

elite. Why do we not invade these na-
tions as well? The answer is, of course,
because doing so would be hard.
Clinton may indeed be devoted to de-
mocracy for its own sake, but it is no
coincidence that he has chosen one of
the weakest countries in the world upon
which to demonstrate his zeal. We
should recall that while U.S. troops
stand ready to invade Haiti in order to
restore democracy there, we are also
negotiating amicably with the govem-
ments of Cuba and North Korea.
Also, China’s status as a “Most Fa-
vored Nation” trading partner was re-
cently renewed — a curious commen-
tary on our embargo policy against the
Haitian generals. The lesson here is
that Clinton is only a starry-eyed, gung-
ho partisan of democracy when it suits

him. Whether or not forcibly fostering
democracy is, in the final analysis,
worth the sacrifice of American lives is
something I leave to the reader to de-
termine on his own.

And what of the doubts about Fa-
ther Aristide? First it needs to be said
that Aristide’s followers are not very
sophisticated or forgiving people: many
of them can be expected to demand
their pound of ﬂesh should their leader
ever regain power. Aristide ’s infamous

conclusive reasons to believe that a
U.S. invasion could ever put an end to
rightist assassinations (we can’t even
put an end to murders in our own capi-
tol, let alone anyone else’s). Further-
more, the killing set off by a return of
Aristide to power could be just as un-
palatable.

We have yet to learn whether a U.S.
invasion of Haiti could ever achieve its
objective of a stable, democratic gov-
ernment there. It may be instructive to

speechtohisfol- take a look at
lowers just be- Haiti’s history,
fore he was though. Ironi-
ousted from the ‘ é cally, the U.S.
presidency, in government has
which he lauded . made the mistake
the virtues of Are we; nght_t0_place ofinvadingHaiti
“necklacing” such a high pt'l0I'lty on before; U.S. Ma-
i.e., lacin a - _ rines occupied
burnigg tgire the re,St0rat,1,on Ofdemoc thatcountryfrom
around the neck racy in Haitz?And, even 1915 to 1934.
0|?‘ anl:PP9"¢m)a if this is a worthwhile th P;‘°‘:;l°‘3b‘Yé
s ou ive us . . . oug , egoo
pausetogonsider g0al).lS FatherAnsnde example of their
just how dedi- the ﬁght man for the neighbors to the
cated this man -ob-) north made little
really is to the -I ' impressiononthe
principles of de-   Haitians; they re-
mocracy. Add- verted to the pre-
ing to Aristide’s vious pattern of

questionable credentials as a liberal-
minded democrat is his reputation as a
quasi-Marxist.

And yes, there are political murders
going on today in Haiti, but there are no

The Ring-tum Phi.
Available in your grocers freezer:

20 07231 0

authoritarian rule afterthe Marines had
left.

Will Aristide reverse the pattern? I
have little faith that he, or anyone else,
ever could.

 

 

_>~

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 16, 1994

OPINION

Riding the job circuit to Moline

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

A belated hello and welcome to my
column. I’m sure all of you are fasci-
nated by every aspect of my glamour-
ous life, so I’ve decided to share with
you a dark, moldy chapter of my life:
my summer. Consider it the memoirs
of a Working Woman.

When I was forced to leave Lexing-
ton, The City That Never Sleeps, for
Moline, Illinois, City of A Thousand
Forbidden Delights, I quickly found
myself jobless and broke. My brother
had just obtained a wonderful temp
job. The Boy was paid eight dollars an
hour to sit at the airport holding a sign
that said “John Deere” on it. (It may
interest you to know that in addition to
being the City of A Thousand Forbid-
den Delights, Moline is also the Farm
Implement Capital of the World. I kid
you not.) Inspired by The Boy’s good
fortune, I trekked over to the temp
agency to ﬁnd a job to supplement my
exciting career in the dynamic world of
French fashion. In other words, my job
as a sales associe at Express was not
paying me enough. I was amazed at
how quickly the agency found a job for
me. In retrospect, this should not have
suprised me, considering that the only
qualiﬁcation needed was to own a pair
of steel-toed boots. Armed with my
steel-toed boots and determination, I
began my summeras a working woman
at a factory called Export Packaging.
What was I thinking?

My day began at four in the mom-
ing. This is not a good thing for some-
one who has trouble going to an 8 a.m.
class (Sorry, Professor Hall). I wore
really old jeans, a W&L shirt to remind
me of better times, and a hideous pair
of brown safety glasses. My duties
were not too demanding. In essence,
the monolith that is Export Packaging
is a division of Caterpillar. I took small
tractor parts like bolts, screws, hoses,
and big heavy yellow thingies out of
boxes, counted them, divided them by
destination, and put them in other boxes.
A dolphin could have been trained to
do this. I was paid ﬁve dollars an hour.
The perks included my very own marker

and stapler with little tags on them that
said “Elizabeth G.”

You can imagine the skills I picked
up on this job. I learned that bolts are
really heavy and greasy. I can now
operate a hand jack. I know how to use
a time card. Most importantly, I can
waste time like a champ. Each task
required about two seconds worth of
paperwork. My precison stretched that
time out to about four minutes. If I
needed to get new boxes, I carefully
studied each box before taking it back
to my work table. I also spent a lot of
time staring blankly into space.

My job was not a pleasant one. It
was tedious, and to use an industry
term, “icky.” These
problems were com-
pounded by my su-
pervisor, Margie.
Margie is about thirty
years old and has
worked at Export
Packagingforfartoo
much of her sad life.
Her hair is a tight

It is rather hard to

respect someone who
comes to work wearing

tered an environment in which I take
no pride in my work and consequently
make the occassional error.” I thought
better of it and shrugged. I was prob-
ably more upset by Margie than I should
have been. I was complaining about
how Margie thought I was stupid when
my co-worker Phil, who wore signifi-
cantly more jewelry than I did to
accesorize his Manson shirt, said,
“Dude, if your supervisorthinks you’re
dumb, then go with it, man.” A good
point. The next time I accidentally sent
5,000 Heavy Concrete Things to
Melbourne instead of Morton, Illinois,
I said, “Oops. Messed up again. What
can you do?” Margie fumed, but seemed
to accept this
answer as the
truth.

E x p o r t
Packagingwas
really not the
best place to
meet interest-
ing people. I
found it pain-

bunclh of ::u_rl’ls_  shirts that say Don’t ful toflisten tlo
one ong an in e [Un rintable] Talk t twoo my co -
back, which she p 0 leagues trying
wears braided. 1 of- Me. I’m Stressed, to make sexual
ten dreamed of light- and Midwest Regional in n u e n d o s
[ng thlatt tailklike a Armwrestling Champi pbout pecan
use. ma es me ' ogs.
smile now just think- onshipsg Contenden Phil was
mg about it. Margie, okay as long as
to put it mildly, Iwaswillingto
lacked good man- talk to him

agement skills. It is ’
rather hard to respect someone who
comes to work wearing shirts that say,
“Don’t [Unprintable] Talk to Me. I’m
Stressed,” and “Midwest Regional
Armwrestling Championships: Con-
tender.”

Margie alsoseemed to ﬁnd me mind-
numbingly stupid if I ever missed any
of the intricacies of tractor parts. One
day she came and screamed about a
quarter of an inch away from my face,
“What the [obscenity] are you think-
ing, you [naughty word]? You really
[deleted] [deleted] this time! Why did
you [fornicating] get this wrong?” I
considered telling her the truth, some-
thing like, “Well, Margie, I guess the
reason I made a mistake was that your
utter lack of leadership skills has fos-

LETTERS

about drugs,
gin, and serial killers. The most fright-
ening of all was a weird guy whose job
it was to take out the trash all day long.
I was cheerfully counting buttons one
day when a strange guy came up to me.
I had never seen him before. He said,
“Betsy?”

“Yeah?” I answered blearily.

“My name’s Paul.”

I waited to see what Paul had come
to talk to me about, and found that that
was it. Furtherpondering the situation,
I found it weird that he knew my name.
Margie, who had worked with me ev-
ery day, did not know my name. Baffled
by how I could be both Betsy and
Elizabeth, she gave up. I was pretty
sure that Paul also knew my social
security number and what my score on

the math section of the SAT’s was.
Later in the day, Paul came up to me
again.

“Betsy?”

“What?” I asked. Bear in mind that
all I have ever said to Paul was “Yeah?”
and “What?” Apparently I said it well,
because he then asked me out.
“Ummm... I can’t. I’m, ummm,
Amish,” I answered. Paul ran away in
fear and never spoke to me again. What
could I do? His career was emptying
trash at Export Packaging, and his bi-
ceps were about as big around as my
wrists. Come to think of it, Paul is a lot
like Richard Weaver, only with a job.

In a way, I learned a great deal about
labor-management relations from my
work. The ofﬁces of the managers were
air-conditioned, but the places where
all of us toiled, lifting heavy objects,
were not. Every once in a while, the
management attempted to appease us
with popsicles. I tried to rally my fel-
low workers together and to open their
eyes to the oppression in front of them.
“Can’t you see?” I screamed, “They’re
just trying to keep us happy so they
don’t have to invest any real money in
our safety! They’re just trying to...
Hey, they have green ones!”

I’m sure all of you are wondering
how I tore myself away from this won-
derful job to go back to W&L. It wasn’t
easy, but one day I snapped. It was a hot
day. I was tired and had not had time to
eat my nourishing meal of a whole lot
of coffee before work. I was not in a
good mood.

Margie came over to me and said,
“You’ve been [inappropriate for a pub-
lication] sitting down too [not up toPhi
standards of journalistic integrity] much
on this job. I don’t want you to sit down
for the rest of the time you work here,
including on your breaks.” I was, to put
it mildly, enraged. I couldn’t sit down?
What was she going to do, follow me
into the bathroom to make sure I was
standing? I waited until the whistle
blew for my ﬁrst break, returned my
coveted stapler and marker, wrote
“Herein Lie The Seeds Of Revolution”
on my work table, punched out, and
left without a word to anyone. I was
free.

The memoirs of a working woman.
They’re not pretty, but they’re true.

  Manning thanks freshman orientation aides

To the editor:

I would like to take this opportunity to thank
publicly the entire W&L community for providing
such an enthusiastic and supportive welcome to the
Class of 1998 during the freshmen orientation pro-

gram.

Of particular importance was the work of the
Freshmen Orientation Committee, and its leadership,
Sue Krawchuk, and the Dormitory Counselors, all of
who gave unﬂaggingly of themselves. Planning and
organizing orientation activities and stafﬁng virtually
every orientation event — from Mandatory Fun 101
to airport shuttles — made for a very smooth opening

week.

Thanks also go to: Mr. Bill Elswick, Mr. Randolph

Hare, Mr. Bernard Butler, and their staff who saw to
it that all of the dormitories and other facilities were
in immaculate condition for check-in day; Mr. Jerry
Darrell and Mr. John Taffe and their staff who fur-
nished the culinary touches for several meetings and
special occasions; Jim Farrar, Rob Mish, Chris Main,
Kathekon, Southern Comfort, JubiLee, General Ad-
mission and Gordon Spice for the Alumni Associa-

tion BBQ.

Special kudos to Sue Krawchuk for her extraordi-
nary work with virtually every aspect of orientation;
Tina Hand for her work with the Freshmen Record;
Ms. Joan Neel and the APO Service Fraternity for
excellent leadership of the community service activ-
ity; Professor Kirk Follo, Megan Femstrum and Peter

Weissman and the Outing Club for organizing the
overnight hike; Dean John Elrod for his thoughtful
reﬂections on academic life at W&L and Professor
Taylor Sanders for his insights into the history and
traditions of W&L; Kevin Webb, Professor Lamar
Cecil and the Executive Committee for a meaning-
ful orientation to the Honor System.

Others too numerous to mention also contrib-

uted to the freshmen orientation program, and this

general note must sufﬁce as a thank you. I am
pleased that the Class of 1998 was the beneﬁciary
of such a community effort!

Dennis G. Manning
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life

USE THOSE SAT VERBAL SKILLS:
WRITE A LETTER TO THE PHI.

Interviews and Photos

By Betsy Green

 

TALKBACK

Pictures

If you have not paid for your
yearbook pictures yet, you can drop
off a check in Carol Calkins’ ofﬁce
in University Center. The cost is
$15 for freshmen, sophomores, and
juniors and $20 for seniors. Frater-
nity members may use their com-
posite pictures in the yearbook.

Habitat

The W&L chapter of Habitat for
Humanity will begin its fundraising
drive with the 2nd annual Buy A
Brick for a Buck, to be held outside
the Co-op Thursday, Sept. 16 and
Friday, Sept. 17 from 10 a.m. to 3
p.m.

Film

The Film Society will begin its
1994-95 season with Four Wed-
dings and Funeral. Showings will
be on Friday, Sept. 16 and Saturday,
Sept. 17 at the Troubadour Theatre.
Friday night showings will be at 8
p.m., and at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. on
Saturdays.

Calyx

Did you forget to get your 1994
yearbook? You can pick one up
from Carol Calkins in University
Center between 8:30 a.m.-12 p.m.
and 1-4:30 p.m.

Resumes

There will be a resume work-
shop on Monday, Sept. 19, at 4 p.m.
in room 109 of the University Cen-
ter. All students are invited to at-
tend.

Seniors

There will be a senior meeting at
4 p.m. on Tuesday, Sept. 20 and 4
p.m. on Thursday, Sept. 22 in
Northen Auditorium. All seniors
need to attend one of these meet-
ings.

Interviews

There will be a interview work-
shop on Sept. 21 at 4 p.m. in room
109 of the University Center. All
students invited to attend.

Outing Club

There will be a Outing Club
meeting at the Outing Club house
on Wednesday, Sept. 21. All are
welcome. There will be a hike at 11
a.m. on Saturday, Sept. 17.

Women’s Forum

The Women’s Forum will have
an open house at 8 p.m. on Sunday,
Sept. 18 at Fairfax Lounge. Re-
freshments will be served.

Security director warns
of new Virginia laws

Dear Students:

While you were gone over the sum-
mer holiday the laws of Virginia
changed regarding drinking and driv-
ing in this state. There are several sub-
stantial changes that have toughened
the DUI statutes. You need to know
these changes:

1. The Blood Alcohol Content level
has been reduced to 0.08%. You are
legally considered to be driving under

the inﬂuence if your BAC is 0.08% or, ~
higher. If your driving in1_paired,_-=

(accident, moving violation, etc.), you
could be convicted of DUI if your BAC
is lower than 0.08%.

2. If you are under 21 years of age,
driving with a BAC of 0.02% but less
than 0.08%, (this could be as little as
1 1/2 to 2 beers), is punishable by a ﬁne
of up to $500 and a six months driver’s
license suspension. This is a ZERO
TOLERANCE statute.

3. If your license has been sus-
pended for an alcohol related offense
and you are found driving, the vehicle
you are driving will be impounded
immediately for 30 days. The court can

impound the vehicle for an additional
90 days upon conviction.

4. As of January 1, 1995, your
driver’s license will be automatically

Vrevoked for _7 days if you are found

driving with a BAC of 0:08%, or if you
refuse to submit to a breath test.

5. Also beginning in January, you
will no longer have the option of re-
questing a blood test instead of a breath
test for an alcohol offense.

It’s pretty easy to see that Virginia

-has become very serious about drink--,,._

ing and driving. Every year some of
our students are arrested for DUI and
those students have not found that to be
a very pleasant experience. With these
changes in the law, it will be much
easier for you to be in violation, if you
choose to use alcohol. The choice is up
to you, but the penalties are severe.

DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE
HAVEADESIGNATED DRIVER

Sincerely,
Michael L. Young
Director of Security

Don ’t post on Colonnade

To the editor: ~

The Colonnade, including Newcomb Hall and Tucker Hall, is a National
Historica Landmark. Please do not place posters or notices on the Colonnade,
including the wallway. Your cooperation in recognition of the beauty of the

Colonnade is appreciated.

David. L. Howison
Dean of Students

 

Layout

By Joe Framptom

What’s your favorite Way to exercise?

at

Annie Plummer, ’97, Hagerstown, Md. -—
“Walking out to Sig Ep to play pool.”

 

 

Stephanie Fabrizio, ’97, Cumberland, R.I.
—- “Aerobics at ten o’clock at night.”

Ryan McCann, ’96, Mansfield, Conn. ——
“Flipping the channels on the remote.”

Vivian Stone, ’97, White Plains, N.Y. —-
“Weightlifting 12 ounces of liquid.”

 

Denis Riva, ’97, Woodbridge, Va. — “Late
night rendevous.”

 

.s..

 

  

The Ringjum Phi, September 16, 1994

Mixed Media By Jack Ohman

sTvMEEl’$1990STV...J

mmmmwmmwu
bmwmmmmg.

   

e1994TmonnMod|lSQtvtcss,|nc \
AIR-yhlsnasorvod .
/; .

.mwMmmmmmDwm
mmmmammwwmd

JUST 5 24?? EACH -’.’./

R .;.

PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT NVESTIN-(3

OCEAN SPRAY

HIIS1‘ er
MEANS ow PRICES

 
  

‘V

K

 

REDUCED PRICES  

nuv ONE 13 oz. PKG _  E  E”  --—~

THOMAS
BAGELS

AND GET ONE

BUN LENGTH

LOUIS RICH

  
   

 C C. C C 3'
i O    LOW PRICES

' ‘ ‘.~\";‘.-.'::.-- ._
E I‘ E‘. i;‘~ﬂ:"i'\“i   

WEIGHT

  
 

   

   

   
 

REG. SIZE ‘ _y
OR JRS. ‘ _ 

CHIGTA 9
BANANAS...

GREAT VALUE

COKE OR
CRAN JUICE DIET COKE

 

 

 

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

 

IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS
EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF

THROUGH RETIREMENT.

OZ.
I THE DELI-BAKERY

TABLETS OR
CAPLETS

. WEEKLY SPECIAL

CEREALS

9

   

OFRUIT FLAVORED 0'5 '
I 50
'5  C,
OZ. °COX’S ORANGE 0
PIPPIN APPLE O’S

an? Annuity Auuialian/Ca/lcgc Rztirzmznl Eguiliea FIAII3.

O 1994 Tmcbera Iruurance
L

hink about supporting yourselli for
twenty-ﬁve, thirty years or longer

in retirement. It might be the greatest
ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately,
you have one valuable asset in your
favor. Time.

Time to take advantage of tax-deferral.
Time For your money to grow.

But starting early is key. Consider this:
ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at
age thirty, you can accumulate $138,2o9*
by the time you reach age sixty-live.
Wait ten years and you’d need to set aside
$203 a month to reach the same goal.

At TI/\A—CREF, we not only under-
stand the value of starting early, we
can help make it possible——with ﬂexible
retirement and tax~deFerred annuity
plans, a diverse portfolio of investment
choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75years.

Over 1.5 million people in education
and research are already enrolled in
America’s largest retirement system.
Find out how easy it is to join them. Call
today and learn how simple it is to put
yourself‘ through retirement when you
have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.

Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline I 800 842-2888.

  Ensuring the future

for those who shape it?“

HARRIS TEI:'I'ER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT

’c‘ii°I"‘A"Ii‘ii'i'i"“ I49 'I"3ii”v""‘S"'A’"I°.‘i'°°"°‘" 9
RICE CAKES O42. HAM LB.

t‘if'c‘tii’i‘I’iti‘£$‘t’$in 19 I'i"6i‘it‘iiitb"‘i‘£i’iitt‘§i5’i'i
ORANGE JUICE 3%. TOASTEES & GET ONE 

CHEESE 5%. BATH TISSUE £83‘.-5:.

E“"i5'i"iE"¢§‘E' °" ‘°"  E‘i'I‘r’.§E"I‘."SoI=1 2/ 59

"‘A.MumI'n_q an I'ri/(mil I‘u(( Q/'6’Xi. T/11}: run (it Z,“//I1r[!}4’I[-i'4]!{[[]{I [](t"(I[I(7A'!.L/ /,7 ,i/mm //1:’ /7(7II'I'l' ii/n7 i’/I/i'rI ii/ miii/iii://Iiiliiiy. /.miw' ur /JI_'i//Izr m!:'.I ivnu/(9

priIr}ur! I‘II'_I/ <)I]‘/i'/?'II/ Iwri/l.r. (‘RIt'I" i'i'/‘I1’/ii'iIIi'.i ii/1' ()1-it/I'li/IIIIr'{) /iy /I'lxI,-l~(‘/i’I2'/"/iIzIi'i'i'zIi/I1/iiiiil Ill.’/Ii/[I/Iii’/I1”St!'K‘['1':'./.

  Prices Effective Through Sept. 20, I994

Prices In Thii Ad Eitective Wednesﬁa¥, September I4, Through T 994 In Our Lexington Store
0

‘_ ifjsd September 2 V ‘
On y.We Reserve The Rig t Limit Quantities. None So To ers. We Glad Accept Federal food btamps.

 

     

‘s
The Ring-tum Phi, September 18, 1994 PAGE 9

f‘.

f A
© 1994 Citibank (South Dakota), NA.

1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

.I

HOW TO SAVE A FEW BUCKS.

(YOU CAN'T LIVE OFF PSYCH EXPERIMENTS ALONE.)

3% Buy pizza at closing time.
Haggle for slices the)/’d otherwise just throw away.

WE Eat Ramen noodles.

ééé

Make friends with a Senior.
Come June, they'll be more than glad to give you
their old Poly Sci bool<s andcouches.

3? Donate blood.
Save a life and get a free lunch to boot.

3% Pick up a Citibank Classic card.
There's no annual fee.

WE’RE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU 5"
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.

  

Apply for the Citibank Classic card by completing the application in this issue or by calling I- 800 - CITIBANK

 

 

 

Last Week:

CC- (M)- fifth out of 27 at Lebanon Valley
(W)- first out of 25 at Lebanon Valley
SOCCER (W)-def. Sewanee 7-1; RMWC 5-0
(M)-tied York 1-1; lost Maryville 1-0; def. E&H
VOLLEYBALb- def. C. Newport 3-0; lost to Bridgewater

3-1

PAGE 10

 

.__e a¢.._.

S

(11112 ‘filing-him ilﬂlri

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL

This Week:

CC- vs. Mary Washington (M&W)
SOCCER (M)- vs.Frostburg St., Hampden Sydney

(W)- at Va. Wesleyan, vs. Hollins
VOLI.EYBALL- W&L Invit., at East. Menonite
WATER Por.o- at Navy EWPA Tourney

SEPTEMBER 16, 1994
).

Emory and Henry spoils Generals opener.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

Washington and Lee was hoping for
a different story line from that of last
year. Emory and Henry once again
played the wicked witch as the Wasps
again spoiled the season opener for the
Generals.

A While game was a rough one for the
Generals offense — W&L turned the
ball over six times—the defense showed
signs of living up to its preseason prom-
ise.

The running game was never able to
quite get off the ground as W&L’s lead-
ing rusher, J .P. Josephson accumulated
only 39 yards. The Generals are still
looking to ﬁll the shoes of Tommy Ma-
son and Wilson Moore in the backfield.

Sophomore fullback Aaron
Wilkinson left the game early with a
sprained ankle as well.

The return of wide-out William Propst
threw a positve light on the afternoon.
Propst caught six passes for 61 yards in
the contest.

“I thought they played with a lot of

79

enthusiasm, commented head coach
Gary Fallon.

The defense will be relied on to pro-
vide the spark this season based on the
number of returning starters.

“We went into the season thinking
on paper that was our strong point,” said
Fallon.

Fallon also said that the team will try
to throw the ball more often to take some
of the pressure off the mnning game.

According to Fallon, the team will
try to take the season one game at a time.

“Our biggest goal right now is to beat
the next opponent,” said Fallon.

Fallon expects the team to be greatly
improved from last season.

“We’ve got more seniors and juniors
dominating the starting roles,” stated
the veteran coach.

Despite the loss, Fallon remained
optimistic about the season.

“I think it’s going to be a real good
year for us, regardless of how the wins
and losses come out,” remarked Fallon.

The Generals have the week off be-
fore facing Centre College on the 24th.
W&L will be looking to avenge last
season’s 21-15 loss to Centre.

W&L Hall of Fame honors new inductees

BY KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Washington & Lee could be
called a university of names.
Buildings, ﬁelds, dormitories,
and plazas all across campus
bearthe namesofﬁgures promi-
nent in the school’s history.

Most of these names, if not
the people, themselves, are
known well to members of the
university. It is understandable,
though, that some of these me-
morials get overlooked, particu-
larly when located deep inside
the Warner Center, like the A.
E. Mathis Wrestling Room.

But Archie Mathis has
moved up in the world. The late
W&L wrestling coaching leg-
end was one of the four 1994
inductees into the Washington
& Lee Athletic Hall of Fame.

The Hall of Fame, estab-
lished in 1987, increased its
membership to 32 with the in-

duction of Mathis, Brian Bell’49,
Skeet Chadwick’74, and Pat Den-
nis’78 at last Friday night’s cer-
emony in the Evans Dining Hall.

Mathis coached the W&L
wrestling program to national
prominence upon taking over the
four-year old program in 1925.

After accumulatinga 17-year
coaching mark of 80-21 -3,
Mathis was killed while serving
the country in World War II. Six
of his former wrestlers also gave
their lives in the war.

A man whose career included
nine unbeaten seasons and four
Southern Conference champion-
ships was probably best described
in a letter to the W&L Athletic
Hallof Fame Committeethat was
read at the induction ceremony
by Professor of English, George
Ray.

The letter was written this
passed summer by Rosa Fletcher
Crocker, the daughter W&L
legend,Forrest Fletcher.

Crocker wrote of a circus that

once came to Lexington during
her childhood. The ringmaster
was trying feverishly to get a
challenger to go one-on-one with
his “Wild Man.”

“Up got a man who made his
way_down the bleachers to the
center of the ring, taking off his
coat and tie as he went,” the letter
said.

“I well remember a great
cheer which went up when that
audience saw who had gone
down; and although I was not
wearing a timekeeper’s watch, it
could not have been more than
half a minute before the Wild
Man was tightly pinned to the
ﬂoor, by Archie Mathis.”

Mathis’ ﬁnal team at W&L,
the 1941-42 squad, ﬁnished a
fittingly perfect 6-0.

Bell was a football and base-
ball standout for the Generals
and had the privilege of playing
for another of W&L’s Hall of
Fame coaches, Richard “Cap’n
Dick” Smith.

File Photo

W&L water polo set out on their quest to regain the EWPA title with a 2-2
split at the W&L Invitational against Richmond and Queens College. The

Generals defeated the 16th ranked Richmond team in the final game.

 

Water Polo splits in tourney

BY STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

Expectations are always high
when you are the defending
champion in your sport.

The Washington and Lee wa-
ter polo team was confronting
the challenge of a return to domi-
nance this past weekend in the
W&L Invitational.

The Generals opened the tour-
namentwithacome-from-behind
11-10 win versus Queens Col-
lege.

In the second game, the Gen-
erals fell to Richmond in over-
time 16-14. The third game saw
a fatigued squad lose 19-7 to
Queens.

16th ranked Richmond did not
long enjoy their victory, as the
Generals rebounded to defeat the
Spiders 10-8 in the ﬁnal game of
the weekend.

Head Coach Paige Remillard
was pleased with the overall per-
formance of the weekend.

“We played three games on
Saturday and the fatigue and drain
certainly reared its ugly head,”
remarked the coach.

Stars for the Generals included
senior Reuben Munger and jun-
ior Frank Braden who each scored
four times against Queens in the
ﬁrst game.

All-America goalie David
Silvester also stepped up his per-
formance for the weekend, cul-
minating in a 15 save effort
against Richmond in the ﬁnal
game of the series.

Remillard thinks that the loss
of All-American Greg Golub
actually helps the team in some
respects.

“Now if you shut down one
player, someone else is there,”
said Remillard. “That has been a
smooth transition.”

This coming weekend the
Generals face their toughest test
of the young season as they jour-
ney to Annapolis and the Eastern
Water Association Tourney.

The Generals will be compet-
ing against three top twenty-five
opponents in Princeton (19),
Navy (14), and Slippery Rock
(22). _

“Now we’re playing at a very
strong national level,” said
Remillard of the coming week-
end. “If we win a game, I’m a
happy guy. If we win two, I ﬂoat
home.”

When asked about the com-
ing season and the quest for a
repeat EWPA title, Remillard
remarked that Johns Hopkins was
probably the favorite to take the
crown.

However, he summed up the
spirit and tradition of the team by
adding, “If they take it, they’re
going to earn it.”

Smith reportedly called Bell
“the ﬁnest athlete I ever coached
at Washington & Lee.”

As a baseball player, Bell
earned all-state honors in 1947,
1948, and 1949.

In ’48, he batted .419 with a
Southern Conference-leading six
home runs and a still-standing
school-record of 22 stolen bases.

His most memorable play as a
collegiate came on the football
ﬁeld. While returning a kickoff,
Bell was aided by a
photographer’s ﬂash that appar-
ently caused two University of
Richmond defenders to tackle
Bell’s lead blocker. The 94-yard
return for a touchdown was one
of the Associated Press’ sports
oddities of the year.

After playing football brieﬂy
with the Washington Redskins
and Detroit Lions, Bell was on
the verge of singing a baseball
deal with the New York Giants
when he suffered a career-end-
ing knee injury.

In more recent times, the other
inductees, Chadwick and Den-
nis, helped W&L chase national
championships in the ’70s.

A member of the National La-
crosse Foundation Hall of Fame
in Baltimore, Chadwick was one
of the best goalies in lacrosse
history.

He was voted the nation’s out-
standing goalie in 1974 and
helped the Generals to the Divi-
sion I NCAA semiﬁnals both his
junior and senior seasons.

“By our junior year, Skeet
was the foundation of the team,”
said formerteammate Ted Bauer,
himself a Lacrosse Hall of Famer.

Bauer, always quick to knock
that team’s defense, described
Chadwick’s remarkable indi-
vidual performance in a ’73 play-
off game versus Navy: “No de-
fense. No help. No goal.”

Chadwick still holds many
school records, including a .720
save percentage in 1974. That
year and 1978, he represented

 

File Photo

Once again the Wasps of Emory and Henry managed to spoil the opening game of the football
season. This year, the score was 23-2 as the Generals turned the ball over six times, five via the

$-

A

the United States at the World
Games.

Like Chadwick, Dennis didn’t
break onto the scene until his‘
junior year, a year he was voted!
3rd-Team All-American and Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Year.

His single-season scoring

record of 700 points in 1977-78,;

still stands.

That season, Dennis repeated
as ODAC Player of the Year and
earned 1st-Team All-America
honors.

l
Those two seasons, W&L‘

went 45-11, won back-to-back
ODAC titles, and was ranked as
high as fourth in the nation.

In ’78, Dennis was the ﬁnal

cut from the Boston Celtics’ trainﬁ‘:

ing camp, ending his hopes for a'
professional career.

However, his coaching ca-
reer appears to be blossoming.
Dennis is entering his third sea-
son as the head coach of Theit’
Citadel.

New assistants aid teams »

BY STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

Four Washington and Lee ath-
letic teams opened the year in
1994 with a slightly new look.

Men’s lacrosse, water polo
and swimming, volleyball and
women’s basketball, and
women’s lacrosse and soccer all
have added new assistant coaches
to the staff this year.

KevinAnderson brings hisex-
perience as an All-American
midﬁelderfor Loyolatothe Gen-
erals’ lacrosse team. Anderson
starred for Loyola over the last
four years and played against the
University of North Carolina in

the 1991 national championship
game.

Coach Paige Remillard of the
water polo and men’s swimming
team will be aided by new assis-
tant Conrad Stuntz.

Stuntz was an All-American
at Bowdoin and captain of the
water polo team.

The volleyball and women’s
basketball teams will get help
from a former foe. Brenda Daivs,
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference player of the year in bas-
ketball and volleyball last sea-
son, will be on the side of the
Generals this season.

Davis brings the experience
of four years with one of the top
volleyball programs in the con-

File Photo

ference.

Jami Dansingburg will be a
new face on the W&L women’s
lacrosse and soccer teams this
year. Just as Guilford lost Daivs
to W&L, so the shoe was on the
other foot with former assistant
Sue Behme. Dansingburg is re-
placing Behme, who is now the
head coach at Sewaneefi.
Dansingburg was an all-region
goalie with William Smith last
season as Smith reached the
NCAA semi-ﬁnals.

All of the teams taking on’
new coaches are drawing from a‘
wealth of recent playing experi-
ence. Each coach should aid their
respective squads as they pursue
successful seasons.

5..

File Photo

Athletes of the Week .

Juniors Fernando Bravo and Josephine Schaeffer were selected by the
athletic department as the first athletes of the Week for the 1994-1995 school
year. Bravo is one of a tandem of strong keepers on the men’s soccer team
while Schaeffer is an All-American for the women’s cross country squad whicli

took first place at the Lebanon Valley Invitational.

