 ;;£‘t‘I%...=}iI«: t.>O£-MRY
.1 in LR 1,7!-<ﬂ'~.I!$‘iT‘r’

 

lEE)’Ti.!<II'aT‘.'N M M!!!‘

Women's lax heads
for ODAC
championships

35: said
ﬁating at (W5.['

 

 

 

I~;;'...-1

 U112 ifting-tum iﬂlri

2‘; G .\.‘i‘

VOLUME 95’, No.23

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Lawn seats for the Elephant show

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Students gather on the Front Lawn Tuesday to hear Jack Kemp speak for the Mock Convention Spring Kick-off.

I

Graduation looms, many seniors remain jobless

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Associate Editor

With graduation only a month away,
some seniors are still uncertain about
what they are going to do once they
receive their diploma.

Biology major Lucy Cavett is still
waiting for job offers. She sought
mostly teaching jobs at private middle
and high schools.

“It’s fun to go on interviews and
learn things, but it’s hard,” she said.
“It’s hard not knowing what they’re
looking for and convincing them that
you’re good for the job.”

It’s also hard convincing yourself
that you’re good for the job, she added.

It is not unusual for seniors to be
jobless on graduation day, explained
Career and Development Office Di-
rector Beverly Lorig. Only 35 percent
of last year’s senior class had a job by
graduation, but the percentage of se-
niors acquiring jobs increased to 68.7

Mr. W&L:

percent after seniors left Lexington,
explained Long.

“The person who doesn’t have a job
often feels like they’re the only one,”
she said. “The majority of students
who graduate will not be employed.”

But not to worry. Lorig said she has
heard from seniors who have
found jobs.

Business Administration major
Elise Brown got a job as a financial
analyst for Bowles, Holoowell, Conner
in Charlotte, North Carolina. She got
the job before Fancy Dress. Brown
said she’ll help with mergers and ac-
quisitions of small companies. It wasn’t
easy though. She had between 15 and
20 interviews before she received a job
offer, she said.

Computer Science major Robert
Powell sent out four resumes before he
got a job with Anderson Consulting in
Washington, D.C. He competed forthe
Anderson job with 12 other students
and was granted a second interview in
Washington, D.C. He received the job

offer on March 10. He said he was
relieved to have a job because it’s one
less thing he has to worry about. “It’s
especially nice [to have a job] because
it seems a lot of people don’t know
what they’re doing after they gradu-
ate,” said Powell‘.

Finding a job is not easy, said Lorig.
Although the job market is better than
it was two years ago, students will still
have to work hard to find a job. Nation-
ally, more graduating seniors are tak-
ing longer to find a job, and many will
end up taking temporary jobs. That is
why seniors need to visit CDP for help
with their job searching techniques,
she said. CDP will stay open all year
round to help those seniors who have
not found a job after graduation.

Lorig said a new database has been
created with students’ names and ca-
reer interests. The database will act as
a referral system for seniors who sub-
mit resumes and will respond to em-
ployers who suddenly have vacancies,
Lori g said.

Still, the job search will pose a chal-
lenge to seniors, she said.

History and Computer Science ma-
jor Laura Purcell agreed. “lt’s easy to
get wrapped up in what’s going on at
W&L and put stuff of ,” said Purcell.

The most difficult part is starting
the job search. She said she is keeping
her job options open.

“I know that I’m young, and I have
the rest of my life to find that dream
job,” Purcell said.

Currently, she is looking for jobs in
museums and computer science, and
CDP has helped her with resumes, job
interviews and graduate school.

Lori g encouraged all seniors to come
to CDP if they needed help in their job
search. She added that job prospects
look optimistic. “We’re at the point
where we’re hearing a lot of good
news,” said Lorig. Whether seniors
find a job or not depends on the amount
of energy they put into the search.

‘‘I think a job search is what you
make it,” said Lorig.

Hughes the fairest of them all

By JESSICA ANTONICH
Phi Staff Writer

Yesterday the contest of all contests, the one that
detennines who is the fairest of them all, Mr. W&L

was held in the BDG Quad.

Because the contest was delayed from its original
date, which fell within fraternity pledgeship, there
were fewer contestants than in past years. The contest
couldn’t rely on pledges as its source for participants.
This year only ﬁve felt that they were man enough to
warrant the prestigious title of Mr. W&L.

The first stage of the competition was the inter-

    

 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Spam God!

r. L Robert Hughes wows onlookers at last nights
Mr. W&L contest during the talent competition.

views. When asked what
women he would like to
be, John Gorab replied
“Mary Jo Mahoney, be-
cause she’s all that.”
Robert Hughes wowed
the judges with the re-
sponse that Chaka Khan
is the woman he most
admires. The contestants
then got the chance to
prove to the audience that
they were more than just
astounding intellect.
They proved this in the
talent competition. Doug
Panzer “sang” an enter-
taining ditty saluting the
men of the United Parcel
Service. Jay Giles im-
pressedtheaudiencewith
an a cappella version of
“You Lost That Lovin’
Feelin”’ Greg Lynch
took the stage, made
ratherquestionablecom-

ments about the previous two contestants, urged the
audience to clear out of the way, and then proceeded
to golf eggs into the path the spectators had luckily
made. Robert Hughes played the double bass while
a friendly helper fed him “mass quantaties of Spam”
Finally, Jon Gorab, a man who’s body so many of us
have seen already in the Lip Synch and other events,
stripped once again for the astonished viewers.

Steve Frame, Mr. W&L 1994 was insulted that he
could not be a part of this year’s festivities. He was
not even allowed to hand down his tiara to the new
Mr. W&L. When asked about his thoughts on this
matter he exclaimed, “What the hell is up with this?
I was totally disregarded. I’m bitter! Bitterl”After a
brief delay, the judges announced their decision.
Third place and a prize of $25 went to Greg Lynch.
Second prize and $50 went to the man of all men Jon
Gorab. Mr. W&L 1995, who won $100 in addition
to the title, went to the Spam eating, double bass
playing Robert Hughes. In his acceptance speech he
thanked all who ever told him “You can do it, Bob.”

When asked how he felt about his victory and the
new responsibilities that come with holding such a
prestigious title, Hughes said “It was Spamilicious.”
However, after deliberating momentarily he didn’t
want to neglect someone who had brought him so far
and so high. Hughes stated, ‘‘I’d like to thank Lionel
Richie for all he’s done for me through the years.”

The Mr. W&L contest is sponsored by the Fresh-
man Leadership Committee with help from Michelle
Richardson. Matt O’Brien emceed the contest and
entertained the crowd with his comments on the
proceedings.

Kemp

APRIL 28, 1995

calls

for reform
at Kick-off

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Jack Kemp officially opened the
season of Republican presidential poli-
tics at Washington and Lee by de-
manding reform at the 1996 Mock
Convention’s Spring Kickoff
Tuesday morning.

Kemp spoke in front of Lee Chapel
to a crowd of enthusiastic supporters
waving posters and applauding vigor-
ously. His speech touched on popular
Republican tenets ranging from wel-
fare reform to support for the flat tax.

Kemp believes the Republican vic-
tories in the congressional elections of
1994 ushered in a revolutionary period
of time ideal for carrying out changes
in America.

This revolution and a GOP victory
in 1996 will bring about many needed
reforms in institutions such as welfare,
taxes, and education, said Kemp.

Regarding welfare reform, the
former Housing and Urban Develop-
ment secretary advocates ownership of
low-income housing as a way to lift the
poor out of poverty.

“This is what America is all about
-— to give people a chance to own
something and pass it on to their chil-
dren,” Kemp said.

He cited Marie Johnson as an ex-
ample. While in Pensacola, Florida
last year he assisted Habitat for Hu-
manity in building her a house. The
house was completed in less than 7
hours and gave Johnson, a single mother
with two children, something to call
her own.

“Once people own something they
will treat it differently than if they
didn’t own it,” explained Kemp.

Kemp believes all public housing
should be owned by the poor, and he
strongly advocated this idea while he

through a mixture of public and
private funding.

Kemp used his speech to give a
lengthy endorsement for a fairer
tax code.

“Our tax system is a national dis-
grace,” said Kemp, “We need it to be
ﬂat and fair. /You should be able to fill
it out on a postcard.”

He reprimanded those who would
characterize the capital gains tax cut as
a measure to favor the wealthy.

“What a stupid debate,”
exclaimed Kemp.

The former secretary denounced the
capital gains tax for its harmful effects
on anyone who seeks to increase
their income.

To cut the capital gains tax is to
promote investment and enterprise thus
improving the lots of more Americans,

said Kemp.

Kemp announced his support for
another Republican reform — the
flat tax.

Although he would not settle on the
specific percentage, he believed that
the ﬂat tax, exempting incomes below
$36,000, would be fairer and make tax
shelters and breaks less appealing to
overburdened taxpayers.

In the true spirit of any Republican
National Convention, Kemp used his
speed to bash the Democrats for irre-
sponsible government and promoting
class warfare.

“The American Dream is not based
on redistribution of wealth, but on the
principle that anyone can raise to the
highest of their ability,” said Kemp.

Kemp chastised President Clinton
for adopting a policy )f soaking the
rich. He promised that if a Republican
was elected President, “America would
once again lead the world in
equal opportunity.”

The former secretary said the Demo-
crats have strayed from the noble ef-

 

was HUD forts and
Secretary. dreams of

He criti- Franklin
cized the Roosevelt and
Democrats for Harry Truman
creating a claiming the
welfare sys- only thing the
tem based on Democratic
dependency party of Bill
and perpetuat- Clinton has to
ing poverty. offer is fear.
He said the He re-
system was solved thatthe
t e a r i n g Republican
American partywouldbe
familiesapart. the party de-

“Our sys- voted to free-
tem solidifies dom, property,
people’s need andthe pursuit
for welfare”, I Photo by Betsy Green The Ring-tum Phi of happiness‘
Said Kemp’ Jack Kemp addresses, kicks off K C m P
“The Great , called on the
Society has Mock Con 111 front of Lee Chapel Republicans“)
failed ﬁvetril-

lion dollars after the fact.”

Kemp referred to a welfare mother
who faced a prison sentence for
saving $3,000 for her daughter’s
college tuition.

Apparently, the woman violated a
provision of the Aid to Family with
Dependent Children program by sav-
ing the money.

Kemp finds fault with a welfare
system that doesn’t allow Americans
to save.

“We must change the system,”
Kemp said, “Welfare must support the
traditional family.”

In a question addressed to Kemp
after the news conference, he defined a
traditional family as a household con-
sisting of a mother and father.

“Not to be disrespectful of single
mothers or fathers, but no civilization
has existed without the support of the
traditional family,” said Kemp.

Kemp also urged that all needy stu-
dents be granted the opportunity for a
higher education.

“No child in America should be
denied an education for lack of money,”
said Kemp.

He assured the audience that the
Republican party will actively pursue
financing education for the poor

clearly outline
the principles for which they stand.

“The challenge is... not to tell the
world what we’re opposed to,” said
Kemp, “The question isn't what we’re
against, but what we’re for.”

Kemp expressed the need for every-
one to work with together and partici-
pate in light of the recent Oklahoma
City Federal Building bombing.“The
events in Oklahoma remind us of how
much we have at stake...” Kemp said,
“We have the responsibility of protect-
ing the greatest liberal democracy on
the face of the earth, and this great
university is at the epicenter of pre-
serving that system.”

After 13 years playing professional
football, Kemp was elected to Con-
gress in 1970 as a representative from
Buffalo, New York.

He was appointed HUD Secretary
under President Bush.

Currently, Kemp is chairman of Em-
power America —-— a conservative
think-tank.

Spring Kickoff will conclude to-
night with a cookout in the Baker-
Davis-Gilliam Quad followed by a con-
cert of Everything and Jackopierce at
Zollman’s.

The 21 st Mock Convention is sched-
uled for March land 2, I996.

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

Diplomat denied visit with
American prisoners

    

Ryszard Krystosik, a polish diplomat representing U.S. interests in
Baghdad, Iraq, was denied permission on Tuesday to visit two Americans
who are being held in a local prison. David Daliberti and William Barloon
were jailed two weeks ago for entering Iraq illegally. Krystosik has made
repeated attempts during the past two weeks to make contact with the two
men.

Zedillo declares state of
emergency

On Tuesday, Mexican President Ernest Zedillo declared a state of
emergency in the northern states of Nuevo Leon, Tamaulipas, Chihuahua,
and Durango. Zedillo also ordered the Department of Agriculture, Live-
stock and Rural Development to put emergency measures into effect. Little
rain has fallen on the four states during the past year, causing a severe
drought that has killed thousands of cattle and withered crops.

North Korea seeks US. plans

Assistant Secretary of State Robert L. Galucci received a message from
North Korean diplomats requesting more details on U.S. positions on
replacing a five megawatt nuclear reactor with two South Korean light
water models. Tuesday’s message marked the renewal of North Korean
diplomatic contact with the U.S. on the stalled reactor deal. North Korea
has not, however, expressed a desire to reopen negotiations.

Hamas vows that Israel “will
pay” for activist’s death

The militant Islamic group Hamas warned on Tuesday that Israel will
pay a high price for the death of Abdel—Samad Hassan Harizat. Harizat, an
Islamic activist, is said to have died following an interrogation/torture at
the hands of the Israeli secret police, according to human rights organiza-
tions and Harizat’s relatives.

The Nation

Nichols and McVeigh face
charges

   

On Tuesday, Federal authorities charged Terry and James Nichols with
conspiring with Timothy McVeigh to build explosives at their farm in

Michigan. The charges are officially unrelated to the April 19 bombing of ..
the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building. However, they allow authorities to " "

keep the Nichols in custody while they attempt to connect them to
McVeigh. McVeigh is being held in an Oklahoma prison on bombing
charges. Another unidentified suspect remains at large and is the subject of
a nationwide manhunt. Authorities in Oklahoma City continue to search
the remains of the building for bodies. So far, eighty people are known to
have died in the bombing. One hundred and thirty nine people are still
missing, presumed to have been trapped and killed by the ruble.

Dahmer settlement approved

On Tuesday, the Milwaukee Common Council approved and $850,000
settlement of a lawsuit against police involved with one of the Dahmer
murders. On May 27, 1991, two policemen found drugged, injured, naked
Konerak Sinthasomphone on a street. They returned him to Jeffrey
Dahmer, who convinced them that the fourteen year old was his lover.
Dahmer killed the boy several hours after he was returned.

Cisneros announces HUD plans

Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros announced on Tuesday that HUD
has approved plans to demolish 2,247 apartments in run down housing
projects. Over the next two months, apartments in Philidelphia, St. Louis
and Atlanta will be torn down and replaced with smaller, more humane
low-income housing units.

The State

Board of Elections bars Repub-
lican primary

On Tuesday, the State Board of Elections voted to bar Republicans in
the 97th House of Delegates District from holding a primary election. The
Board issued the ban because primary certifying forms were not received
by the April 19 deadline. District GOP chair Carol Mann, whose husband
is one of the four Republicans trying to secure the nomination, said she
mailed the forms two days before the deadline.

T. Benton Gayle Middle School
returns magazine to stacks

Last week, Seventeen magazine was returned to the stacks at T. Benton
Gayle Middle School following an investigation of a faculty review
committee. The popular magazine was pulled in March because of a
complaint from parent Michael Berry. Berry objected to the availability of
the magazine because it contained an advice column that discussed
homosexuality. The review committee has recommended that all parents
be allowed to notify the school if they do not want their children reading
the magazine. The final decision will be made by Superintendent Russell
Watson.

Board of Education to discuss
prayer events

The Virginia Board of Education hopes to discuss guidelines for student
initiated prayer during the Board’s retreat in Staunton this week. At certain
Virginia schools, students are allowed to meet before school and pray.
Members of the Board are proposing that teachers stay away from these
gatherings. Some ministers and parents oppose the guidelines because they
say that the teachers stay away from these gatherings. Some ministers and
parents oppose the guidelines because they say that the teachers should
have the same rights as the students during non-school hours.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Bethany Bauman

  

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1995

Look, Dad, no hands!!

Photo by Betsy Green, P 1 Photo Editor

William Rush, son of Professor Mark Rush, hangs from the Velcro Wall at last week’s campus carnival.

EC announces new
committee members

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

Two women and a man have been chosen by the Executive Committee to run
the biggest activities on campus. Ashley Bell was appointed unanimously as
Chair of the Fancy Dress Committee. Hollis Leddy was appointed president of
the Student Activities Board, and Jason Bearden was appointed Chair of Contact.

Leddy will be in charge of getting bands throughout the year and organizing
other student activities. Bell will take senior Joe Frampton’s as president and will
be responsible for overseeing all aspects of the Fancy Dress Ball. Bearden, along
with other members, will decide what speakers will come to campus throughout
the year.

Other appointments include the following:

SAB
Peter Jalbert, Vice-President
Chris Wick, Entertainment
Erin Harrison, Publicity

' -e : : Eli‘S*mith, Operations
* 7' » L R"obe'rt‘C’ovington, Rider »

Fancy Dress
Meg Kinder, Vice-Chair
Auditor will be appointed in the Fall

Student Faculty Hearing Board
Actives:
Adam Branson
Stephanie Dall Vechia
Sakina Paige
Kristen Ray
Alternates:
Kristen Cavros
Colin Looney

Contact
Cliff Holekamp, Vice-Chair
Members:
Catherine Bassett
Phil Carrott
Kelley Chapoton
Trey Copeland
Alex Christensen
Robert Covington
Wen Hutchinson
Colin Looney
Bob Ross

Cold Check Committee

Keith Berkerle, Chair
John Bator, Vice-Chair
Members:

Ben La Brecque
Darcey Livingston
Nathan Myers
Catherine Nance
Billy Wright

Emergency Loan Committee

Adam Branson, Chair
Ben La Brecque, Vice-Chair

Voting Regulations Board

Sakina Paige, Chair
Billy Wright, Vice-Chair

Members:
Karlene Jennings

Scott Kees

Nathan Myers

Chris Pugsley

fr V

Ariel [>0/i/i(‘<1/Iegeview. and J01 Ima/ of Sn-
ence are lool<inq lop ediior-‘s.
Applimtions awe due Tllesdciq. Mag l6. at
6:00 p.m. in line Ca/t,x mailbox.
lnlerviews will be held Mm l8 at 6:00

L p.m.fin lite C;.1/q.x Olllté
N “J

Those were the days

from a Ring-tum Phi student poll 37 years ago...‘

“Most freshmen like to party, but the Washington and Lee form is an
entity unknown to them until this year. Most are accustomed to water-
melon feasts, marshmallow roasts, and popcom-and-coke sessions. It has
been determined that the average freshman did drink before he came to
Washington and Lee. In most cases the preferred beverage was milk, but
a few isolated cases preferred alcoholicbeverages, on the sly, of course...ln
a quick, ﬁnal compilation of vital data, the average freshman has 1.7 eyes,
30.3 teeth, is 4.2 feet tall and has 1.4 dates a week.”

The Law News elected to Pub Board

At their Thursday meeting,the Publications Board voted unanimously to grant
The Law News a seat on the board.EditorTodd Rehm, will represent The Law
News. The Pub Board will elect its new officers in September, and will be led by
acting-President Darcey Livingston until that time.

       
      

seemed like it
,.

 
   
 
 

          

   

 eiiiiough

 

   
   

V . t he was disgomteci,‘ not cohesive,
‘$30,000 itiqiwerelpaying hi ‘,I_thO:l}gl’ll_l:l€‘_C_QUld have put more j

    
 
 

, tl1éjimpot‘£ance W&l;fputs on 
11’ ubstantiwsilatél alt.” Anthony“,

    

as  anct unorganizedf

*‘i:vasn%twor: mow.     .
’  as not impressed)? jC‘agthy : t

and he r_lidn’t sayiianythin
Gtartin, 395, Atlanta GE

 

 

-“I thought it wasless than ooh entand rambling at titties. He
apipearedias though he hadn[’t prepared. Itwas deﬁnitely jawaste
“of. money‘ on W&I.fs.‘part.’?.fj;”Justinl St... Clair, ’A97,

LeClaire,’]A   . ﬁfgfﬁ  .. A M: 

       

  

“He was just up therecampaigning for Republican pa§iy,:We
paid him $30,000 Ki Sayisomething int_eliigent_>,’_not‘ just tojgive
a campaign‘ speech. I~Ie’s not one runninggfor President.  [the
price] he completely; missed ‘   ”— A Wall!) .;’97,'
Lancaster;a%PA .9 ” ' ’ i " I  ' V: 

     
 
  

     

The Ring-rum Phi:
Washington and Lee's best dressed campus
publication

  

t

 

  
    
  

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1995

A special report from
The Ring-tum Phi

  

One of the W&L Security
phones on campus

Sexual Assault

PAGE 3

  

W&Lpolicy affords survivors many options

By ANNE E. ALVORD
Phi Staff Member

Unwanted sexual contact. Forced sexual contact. Physi-
cal assault with sexual intent. Sexual intercourse without
consent. Use of authority in attempt to gain sexual favors.
All of these acts are deﬁned as sexual misconduct under
Washington and Lee’s Policy and Procedures on Sexual
Misconduct.

More cases of sexual misconduct have been reported to
the Student Faculty Hearing Board than in past years,
according to Associate Dean of Students Anece McCloud.
In 1993-94, there were three cases of lncivility (verbal
sexual abuse) reported and two of Misconduct (physical
sexual abuse), though none of the cases went before the
SFHB. Numbers for this year are not yet available.

“The reporting, at least for this year, is on the increase,”
says McCloud. “It’s good that reporting is increasing, but

not that this is happening.” McCloud, who has been at
W&L for nearly ten years, can recall a time when a person
who had been sexually assaulted didn’t talk to anyone
about it, and therefore thinks that an increase in the number
of reports is good.

Not only women come to McCloud for information I

about sexual misconduct. Men have come to her as well,
some wishing to make complaints, others looking for
information about the policy, concerned that a woman may
accuse them.

When complaints of sexual misconduct are made, they
are reported to McCloud, who meets with the complaintant
and explains the options before him or her.

First, he or she can do nothing.

The next option is to ﬁle a report, which will be kept on
ﬁle but not acted upon. In such a case, McCloud would keep
the report, in order to monitor patterns of behavior that
might emerge.

If the complaintant wishes, mediation may be pursued. In
such a situation, McCloud acts as the University's mediator.
She serves as a neutral party treating both the complaintant
and the accused equitably. She wishes to stress that if
mediation is pursued, the complaintant does not necessarily
have to face the accused, although the mediation can take
place face to face if the complaintant so wished. Mc Cloud
will only talk with the accused with the permission of the
complaintant. She says mediation, which is by naturejan
informal procedure, depends upon the two parties being
willing to work things out. . _

If the complaintant wishes, or if mediation fails, a judi-
cial process can be pursued, in which the case will be heard
by the SFHB. If this route is taken, McCloud will notify the
accused that a complaint has been ﬁled. The two parties are
given student advisers, often student advocates from the

Law School, who will advise the parties in preparing their
statements and presenting their cases. Student advisers may
not, however, speak in the hearing unless granted special
permission by the chair. _ .

If it is also possible for a complaintant to seek criminal
action against the accused. McCloud stresses criminal_ac-
tion and campus judicial action are not mutually exclusive.
In cases where both actions are taken, the SFHB will often
hold their hearing until after the criminal proceedings have
been concluded. Exceptions to this policy might be cases in
which it is feared that the accused student will leave school
before the criminal case is resolved.

There is no order to the options in front of a complaintant.
There is no process through which he or she has to go to take
one step as opposed to another. McCloud, when she meets
with a complaintant, outlines each of their options and
allows them to choose their own path. The action taken is
always dependent on the complaintant’s desires, says
McCloud, and she only provides information about the
paths of action available.

No action is taken without the consent of the complaintant,
with one exception. If McCloud sees there is an immediate
threat to the community, she may refer the case to the Dean
of Students, who will in turn, if he sees the need, refer it to
the President of the University, who may dismiss the student
from the University. This might happen in a case where a
pattern has developed in the person’s behavior. ‘‘I look ﬁr
certain things...the kind of behavior the frequency, in-
stances where it involved violence,” explained McCloud.
When such an action is taken, the matter becomes an
administrative one rather than a judicial one.

McCloud points out several of the beneﬁts of pursuing a
campus judicial hearing in matters of sexual misconduct, as
opposed to a legal one. First, the campus system is based
entirely on codes of conduct. When a case goes before the
SFHB, there is not the necessity of preponderance of evi-
dence to find the accused guilty.

McCloud is wary of generalizing about the severity of the
sanctions because the board may use any combination and
she has confidence in the board to use their judgement in
deciding sanctions. In a more general sense, she is glad that
the board does not impose single sanction, because the list
of offenses which classify as sexual misconduct are so
varied. “I feel this is a very serious matter,” she maintains,
“but there is a very wide range [of offenses].”

There are several routes available to a complaintant.

Emotional effects of attack may not appear immediately

By CHRISTINE GARNAVISI-I
Phi Staff Member

Imagine four college women you
know. According to statistics, one of
those women has experienced sexual
assault. Sexual assault affects every-
one. Students need to be familiar with
the emotional as well as the physical
effects of such traumatic occurrences.

Although the victim may not di-
rectly state what has happened to her,
there are many warning signs that sexual
assault has occurred. Short term signs
include crying without apparent rea-
son, withdrawal from social activities,
and display of suicidal tendencies. The

victim may refuse to leave her room
unless necessary, and may experience
a lack of concentration accompanied
by a signiﬁcant drop in grades. In
addition, she may stop eating or en-
gage in substance abuse. Sadly, re-
search shows that 80% of women with
eating disorders like anorexia and
bulemia developed such problems as a
result of an assault.

According to Dr. Anne Schroer-
Lamont, Associate Dean of Students
and counseling psychologist, the most
misunderstood result of a sexual attack
is promiscuity. The victim may begin
to flirt frequently and express a desire
for sexual relations with men, even
ones she had no previous interest in.

However, Dean Schroer-Lamont warns
initiating sexual relations under these
conditions is the worst course of action
for male acquaintances of the victim.
No matter how rational the woman
may appear, she is in no condition to be
making such decisions and may not
realize the repercussions of
her actions.

A symptom which may arise in the
longer term aftermath of sexual assault
is Rape Trauma Syndrome, which is
generally divided into four phases.
Phase One is the Acute Phase, Disor-
ganization, in which the victim experi-
ences immediate impact reactions, such
as shock and heightened emotional ef-
fects. This phase also includes physi-
cal, medical and emotional reactions,
social adjustment, and economic ef-
fects. Her thoughts may range from
repression to dissociation, sometimes
including ﬂashbacks. Phase Two, De-
nial, occurs when discussions and
thoughts of the attack are avoided. In
Phase Three, bong Term Process, Re-
organization, the victim undergoes
physical, psychological, social and
‘sexual lifestyle changes. Finally, in
Integration/Recovery, she reaches a
resolution, encountering a feeling of

safety, righteous anger, an ability to
trust again and a desire to help others
undergoing similar trauma.

Schroer-I..amont said the reactions
of victims to sexual assault “are differ-
ent in timing and degree for each indi-
vidual student.” Stressing that both
men and women can be victims, she
explained that rape and assault are ex-
pressions of power. Survivors feel a
lack of control, and it is important to
give them the ability to make
decisions again.

There are many ways in which a
friend can help a victim of sexual as-
sault. An important first step is simply
to believe her, since a major fear of
victims who come forward is that they
will be accused of lying. Related to
this, the conﬁdant must take care not to
say things such as “I can’t believe it.”
Although meant as an expression of
sympathy,the victim mayinterpret such
statements as disbelief.

Also, she is looking to her friend as
a comforter, so let her talk. Try to calm
her down, and reinforce that the attack
was not her fault, although she may not
believe this at ﬁrst. Provide protection
and ﬁnd her a place to sleep where she
feels safe. Encourage her to seek im-

mediate medical attention and a pro-
fessional counselor to assist in her re-
covery and legal procedures should
she so choose.

Lastly, it is important that the friend
also ﬁnds help. Friends cannot do
everything, especially if unexperienced
in such situations. It is vital that the
victim know the friend ’s availability as
well as their limitations.

Schroer-Lamont said there are many
local and campus resources available
to assault victims. In addition to psy-
chologists such as herself and Dr. James
Worth, the Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault has trained vol-
unteers that are constantly on call.
RACASA offers courses for those who
would like to help in the fall, and
Schroer-Lamont encourages both stu-
dents and faculty to get involved.

A sexual assault support group is
also available and attendance strongly
encouraged. The group on campus has
existed for eight years. Everything that
happens there is conﬁdential, and it
can be a vital source of support.

University Health Services offers
free medical treatment to assault vic-
tims. Like the university counselors,
services are completely conﬁdential

and free of charge. The inﬁrrnary has
resources to provide pregnancy test-
ing, medications, HIV testing, and the
morning after pill, although it is impor-
tant to note that the latter step must be
taken within 72 hours. Should further
medical attention be needed, there is a
nurse on duty 24 hours a day at the
Health Center who can transport vic-
tims to Stonewall Jackson
Medical Center.

Schroer-Lamont wants victims to
understand, however, that medical
treatment and counseling services go
hand-in-glove. Although it is not im-
possible to recoverwithout professional
assistance, she said that most who try
to heal without attention often wind up
repressing the incident, which will re-
sult in nightmares or other psychologi-
cal problems later in/life.

Despite this, victims need to under-
stand that it is never too late to come
forward and ask for help.

“There is a time when some are
ready to heal,” says Schroer-Lamont.
“Some need to have that very protec-
tive, quiet time, but when the time
comes to talk, you’ll know. And it’s
better sooner than later, but better later
than not at all.”

Security meets immediate needs of victim

By ANNE E. ALVORD AND DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Members

When a student is sexually assaulted, Washington
and Lee Security is there to help.

Director of Security Mike Young outlined the
procedure for dealing with potential rape victims.

“Making a police report is one of the ways we can
take care of this,” said Young.

First, a security officer will talk with the victim.
The primary concern is to calm the victim and ensure
her immediate safety. This time also allows security
to learn more about the crime.

“We support (the victim) in anything they want to
do,” said Young.

Next, the victim is given medical attention. It is
recommended that the victim consent to medical
exams as if she wished to prosecute even if she has no
such intentions. Often times the victim is too dis-
traught to think clearly and make long-term deci-
sions.

After the medical exams are completed, the vic-
tim is given the option of ﬁling a police report and/or
campus report, This procedure is very difﬁcult for
the victim for she is required to explain in explicit

detail the events of the assault. Support is readily
available, however. Campus counselors and victim
advocates make themselves easily accessible to as-
sist the victim through her ordeal.

The ﬁnal stage lasts the longest and is usually the
most helpful to the victim — long-term psychologi-
cal counseling.

The victim can work through her emotions of
rage, depression, guilt, and mistrust with a trained
therapist. Washington and Lee has two trained
therapists who perform services free of charge. All
visits are absolutely conﬁdential.

Despite the elaborate procedure in place to deal
with sexual assault, it is the aim of W&L Security to
prevent it from ever happening in the ﬁrst place.

Unfortunately, problems have relentlessly plagued
those preventative measures.

Locks on the hallway doors of the freshmen
women have been a constant headache for security
ofﬁcials.

“We’ve repaired them several times, and they’re
always down and up,” Young said.

Presently, the locks have been removed from the
doors altogether.

Security is attempting to install a new card—oper-

ated safety system. The project should be completed
by the fall, said Young.

Some students may wish to learn more about
W&L’s safety record.

Students who are concerned with infonnation
regarding previous crime on the W&L campus will
not face administrative stonewalling..

Federal law requires that every college campus
publish a yearly document reporting all crime that
occurred in the past year. The law was enacted in
honor of a female student who was raped and killed
at Lehigh University in Pennsylvania.

Young urges victims of sexual assault to report
the crime to security. Unfortunately, he believes
there is a possibility that only a fraction of rape cases
actually go reported on campus.

Rockbridge Area Coalition Against Sexual Assault 24 Hour Hotline

463-7273

OPINION

 

W&L students aren’t only Victims of assault policy

MY VIEW
Lori Ramsey, ’96

Everyone knows that Washington
and Lee women are not the only fe-
males present at W&L parties. One
cannot spend a day on the Hill without
hearing comments about “ girls’ school
girls” or “road cheese.”

I have a unique perspective of social
life at W&L. I am an exchange student
from Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege in Lynchburg. I have experienced
the social scene both as a Randolph-
Macon student and as a W&L student.

I have a theory that women’s col-
lege women are more likely to be sexu-
ally assaulted than those who go here.

I cannot back this up with any data, but
I do know what I have seen and how I
have been treated.

On the occasions when I came to
W&L parties as a Randolph-Macon
student, I felt like I was beingscammed.
As a Washington and Lee student, I
feel the men I meet at parties are more
likely to talk to me like I am a person
rather than “a sure thing.”

A while back an anonymous male
wrote a letter to the editor in The Tri-
dent calling W&L women “potted
plants.” His point was that while they
are pretty to look at, you cannot do
anything with them. Girls from
women’s colleges, on the other hand,
are more fun, the writerimplied. Trans-
lation? We are “easy.”

My freshman year, I came to a W&L
party duringprospective students week-

end with a bunch of other Randolph-
Macon students.

Later that night I found a classmate
of mine. She was half naked. She had
left the party with a guy she had met.
She went back to his room. They fooled
around a bit, and he brought out a
condom. She said no; he said, “Oh,
you’re on the pill.” She said no, she
didn’t want to have sex. He attempted
to rape her.

She threatened to urinate on him,
and he let her go to the bathroom,
telling her he knew she would return
because she didn’t have her clothes.
She high-tailed it out of the
dormitory, wearing little more than
her underwear.

She and I went back to retrieve her
clothes. I was shocked to see two pro-
spective students asleep on the ﬂoor.

The colloquial term on campus for
women’s college students is “road
cheese.” It makes my skin crawl; it
implies that we do not matter as human
beings and whatever treatment we re-
ceive, we deserve.

I am not saying that all W&L men
are rapists; the great majority are not. I
do believe, however, that women’s
school students are easy targets for
those who choose to misbehave sexu-
ally. We are an hour or so away from
home; we get drunk and tired, and we
are vulnerable.

The issue of sexual misconduct at
W&L involves many women whose
voices are not heard on this campus. A
W&L student who has raped a woman
from another school will never have
to face her on the Colonade
Monday morning. —

He needn’t expect harsh punish-
ment from the administration either. A
while back the Student Faculty Hear-
ing Board sentenced a sex offender to
social probation and restrainment from
the freshmen dorms. That same week
a member of the student body was tried
in an open hearing and expelled for
cheating on two homework assign-
ments. The contrast appalled me.

At W&L lying, cheating, and steal-
ing are not tolerated. Any of these
offenses result in expulsion. But rape,
a felony offense, is not taken
as seriously.

My freshman year two Randolph-
Macon women filed sexual assault
charges, regarding two separate inci-
dents, with the Hampden-Sydney Code
and Conduct Committee. In both cases
the accused were found guilty, expelled,

and turned over to the Farmville au-
thorities to face criminal charges.

I talked to an acquaintance on the
Hampden-Sydney Honor Court. He
admitted that perhaps the school had
been particularly harsh on the students,
in order to make an example of them,
but added, ‘‘I’m damned well going to
make an example so it doesn’t
happen again!”

Ifa man’s college can take such an
intolerant postion regarding sexual as-
sault, then why doesn’t a co-educa-
tional institution like Washington
and Lee?

Considering the attitudes towards
women’s school women on campus,
sometimes it scares me that I ever went
to a W&L party as a Randolph-Macon
student. It scares me that I have friends
who continue to do so.

 

 

 

The Rin_g-tum Phi, ApriQ8, 1994

W&L ife

PAGE 4

7‘

}—le sai.:=L..sl~e satat

at

.(/Jezajbcctiuea on dating

By GEOFFREY BOURNE
Phi Staff Writer

“You’ve hooked up three times already! Wow, I didn’t know you guys were
going out!” ,

This is typical W&L mentality on what is considered dating. In my opinion,
if you see someone of the opposite sex at a party (or certainly if you go to the party
speciﬁcally with them) and you’ve already hooked up with them a couple of times
and it’s likely you’re going to be saying “hello” to each other in the morning -
you’re dating. I asked a typical (or as his friends regard him, atypical) male W&L
student if he thinks regularly hooking up is viewed as dating.

“Yeah, that’s dating. It kinda shows how the nature of the social scene at W&L
inhibits the friendship side of dating. The person you’re dating should be your
best friend and it doesn’t happen at W&L.”

Now, I don’t mean that just because you hook-up with someone that you’re
automatically dating them. To achieve true W&L style dating requires some
effort. First, regular hooking up is required, nay, demanded! The next parts are
all optional: a nice cold Natie Light, a loud good or bad band playing (you’re
probably drunk anyway, so who cares about quality), and a convenient “get
together” spot. If you approximately hook up every band party you both are at,
whether you like it or not, you, sir, are dating. . .W&L style that is.

On the W&L campus, dating is rarely seen. “You don’t see couples lining up
in front of the Colonnade. You’re more likely to see guys hanging out drinking
in a fraternity house or guys piling in cars to go down the road,” commented
another W&L male.

“Do you think this social scene [band parties etc.] is wrong?”

“No, it’s fun! It kinda shows were still in the Road School mode. Were still in
the single sex mentality where we center on Road Schools and one-night stands,”
this wisely anonymous W&L male answered.

“The whole party scene emphasizes hooking up and one-night stands. The
fraternities create the parties and they emphasize hooking up,” viewed yet
another anonymous source (boy, people don’t seem to like their name in print
anymore - at least for this subject).

So, the question is, are fraternities bad for dating. Maybe, but are we willing
to give up that Saturday night party with our favorite band and are we, as college
students, willing to give up hooking up? Hell Noll Call it a sense of pride in
tradition.

“Dating is pretty much restricted to formal weekends. It’s hook up fest unless
you need a date for something,” this again wisely anonymous male student
commented. “The whole social scene is centered around band parties. If you hang
out with a girl you go to the party with her. What’s there to do in Lexington to go
out on a formal date? Go to the State Theater?”

However, not everyone agrees with this view of W&L style dating. “Do you
think there’s a lot of dating at W&L?” I asked my roommate Pat O’Connell.

I think there is a lot of dating going on at W&L, about 10%, but none of it
involves Pat O’Connell!” he remarked. We all feel your pain or pleasure Pat,
whatever the case may be?!

“It takes a lot to succeed” to be a couple at W&L. “People pull you in opposite
directions. You want to hang out with your fraternity brothers and road trip.” I

‘figuess that’s a choice that one has to make between noncommittal hooking up and

Circle of Friends
a ‘non-picture’

 

Circle of Friends — ﬁr 1/2

I was persuaded to see this movie by
my girlfriend, who had read the book
of the same name by Maeve Binchy. It
is a complete chick-ﬂick. Neverthe-
less, it is telling that neither she nor I

. thought it was very good.

5

.35 The movie is essentially about com-

“ing of age in ﬁfties Ireland. Two young
country girls, Eve and Benny, leave the
little hamlet of Knockglen and go to
university in the big city of Dublin,
where they face a welter of new inﬂu-
ences, thoughts, and perspectives. At

the center of these new opportunities

are, of course, love, sex and men.

Once in Dublin, they meet an old
friend, Nan, who moved there years
ago and seems to know already the
ways of the world; she gives them their
entrance into this realm of masculine
mysteries.

From there the movie focuses on
their interaction with the various men
in their lives: Jack Foley (Chris
O’Donnell), handsome rugby-player
and future-doctor; Sean Walsh, the pale,
creepy shop-clerk who represents the
old, small ways; and Simon Westward,
an older Protestant whose snobby fam-
ily once ruled the town but is now short
on money.

The various twists and turns the
relationships take are the basis for most
of the plot, with a few side-plots about
religion, embezzlement and family ten-
sion thrown in for good measure.

Noted Irish director Pat 0’Oonnor
doesn’t make as much of the beautiful
countryside as he probably should have,
but otherwise he does a very respect-

Woman and The Three Musketeers.
As Jack he exudes all the charm and
vigor we expect of him. A trickier role
is that of his love interest, Benny,
handled by newcomer Minnie Driver.
She doesn’t seem to make any mis-
takes, but we are left feeling that her
character is missing something.

This is the case with almost the
entire cast — they don’t really mess
anything up, but we feel like they are
only half there. The reason for this is
the poor adaptation from Maeve
Binchy’s novel.

Screenwriter Andrew Davies has
produced ﬁne dialogue and action, and
there are no uncomfortably ‘cinematic’
moments. But he has done a terrible
job of moving the characters from the
pages of the novel to the frames of ﬁlm.
We are left with incomplete pictures of
some of the most important ﬁgures,
especially Nan and Jack. As a result,
the audience doesn’t understand events,
actions and reactions that occur on the
screen.

The result of this is that Circle of
Friends is sort of a non-picture. There
is nothing particularly troubling about
it, and it won’t be a terrible experience
to sit through. But there is also nothing
in it which is compelling, thanks to the
wide cast of characters and their in-
complete development. If you have
read the book, you will almost cer-
tainly be disappointed in the adapta-
tion. If you haven’t read the book, you
will probably just be bored and a bit
confused.

If you need a thoughtful date ﬁlm,

able job.

The acting is similarly unremark-
able. The biggest name is iron-jawed
Chris O’Donnell, from Scent of a

this will sufﬁce — once it comes out on
video. There are simply too many
good ﬁlms out right now to waste an
opportunity on Circle of Friends.

{h’.‘r1'§'ﬁ- Go buy this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an instant classic. “You ’ll laugh;
you’ll cry; and maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something about yourself.”

ﬁﬁﬁ - Go see this ﬁlm now, while it’s still on the big screen. It’s worth a few Oscar
nominations and the seven bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better than
Cats!”

ﬂit - Okay, so there have been better ﬁlms. Nevertheless, it is a good example of its genre, and
you should probably see it on videotape. Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

‘Av - It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off tomorrow’s reading. Although your time
would probably be better served on youreducation, its free and you ’re bored, so go ahead and watch
it.

0 - Even if its free and your best friend said he never laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks.

V...

Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste it on this. (There’s always MTV.)

 

a relationship; both are fun in their own special way.

Because I am in that 10% Pat mentioned, and I want to stay that way, the
following disclaimer was suggested:

The above mentioned opinions are not necessarily those of the author, even
though “in my opinion” and “I think” were frequently stated. The author is not
responsible whatsoever for this feature article, thus no blame, malice, or guilt can
be laid upon him. In fact, he disclaims all knowledge and association with this
feature article. If asked about this article he has full rights to reply, “I don’t know
what you’re talking about! Get away from me! I was in Southeast Asia then. Go
away!”

(I/Vashinjton and £5:

By NICOLE RICHARDS
Phi Staff Writer

The way I ﬁgure it the women are bucking 246 years of the ‘dating’ traditions
of an all male school. And as most other traditions at W&L, they’ve become
extremely difﬁcult to change.

Many women, lured by the brochures advertising the 60:40 male to female
ratio arrive expecting men to fall at their feet in desperation. (Okay how many of
you honestly never thought at least once, “hmmmm more men than women =
dates galore”)

The reality is a little bit different. It would seem the males (after 10 years) have
still not adjusted to seeing the girl they woke up with Saturday morning in their
Calculus class on Monday.

“I believe the ﬁrst and last date I had at W&L was some random formal
function. I don’t think he would have even asked me if it hadn’t been some
required pledge thing,” said one ‘dateless’ W&L woman.

The most common response to the question of have you gone out on a date
since the beginning of school was, “sure we did the dinner thing.”

Others were less sure. One replied, “Well, she was there so I said ‘do you want
to go to Goshen’ does that count?” Another said,” is going jogging or sitting out
at the Liberty Ruins just talking for a long time, a date?”

Not all women at W&L are interested in traditional dating. The ‘hook-up’
scene has its many advantages, the free beer, no sticky ‘relationship’ discussions,

“I believe the first and last
date I had at W&L was some

~ random formal function.”

no monogamy, and of course the ‘been there done that’ gossip.

“My work load doesn’t allow the time to date, and I don’t need the added stress
of dealing with pleasing men’s petty egos, it is nice to just leave it with ‘hey see
around or something.” said one practical W&L woman.

There is hope for those romantic idealist who long for candlelight dinners and
nights in front of a crackling ﬁre listening to John Tesh. W&L graduates have
been known to marry, or at least get engaged.

“Besides the carriage rides, and Wilson Walker Lexington doesn’t offer much
in the way of romantic date spots, so I guess even Lexington itself helps support
the ‘hook-up’ scene,” said ‘dateless’ W&L woman.

Talking to the women around W&L offered some insight into dating in
general. Women didn’t come to school to ﬁnd the right husband, or the proper
boy-friend. Education is very important, and most don’t plan on marriage until
after graduate school, or medial school, or law school.

“I have another four years, at least to play, and tying myself down to one guy
just screams boring to me. I am not my mother, I am making my own life ﬁrst,”
class of ’98.

Everyone has at least one story of a hook-up gone awry. Whether both parties
passed out, or the police were involved the ‘hook-up’ scene offers a lot of
amusement Monday morning.

"ParalleZTime explores
tragedyin the family

But things had changed. Staples simply didn’t

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

The summer before my freshmen year in col-
lege was ﬁlled with anxiousness and excitement.
Questions ﬂew through my head: What would
college be like? How would I ﬁt in? Would it be too
hard? I couldn’t wait to leave, couldn’t wait to have
a sense of independence. After Fall term, college
became home, and home became a place that I
went to on breaks and during the summer. When I
came home for Thanksgiving, I walked into the
house, and unfamiliarity was what I saw. I had
ceased to know home, and it took me awhile before
things became comfortable for me. A similar theme
runs through Brent Staple’s memoir, Parallel Time:
Growing Up in Black and White.

At the thematic center of this memoir is Staples’
drug-dealing brother, Blake, who is shot dead by
one of his customers. Learning about his brother’s
death leads him to a reconsideration of his life and
the distance he has put between himself and his
family. V

Staples, the oldest of nine children, grows up in

a small industrial town near Philadelphia. His
father is a drunk who beats on his wife. His family
moves quite frequently, getting evicted from place
to place.

He experiences what is common in adoles-
cence: the desire to ﬁt in, the discovery of girls and
sexuality, acts of mischief, etc. He goes to school,
lost in things unrelated to academics. He doesn’t
even know if he will go to college.

Just before he graduates, Sparrow, an adult
friend, asks him about college, pulls a few of his
connections, and gets Staples a scholarship to a
local college. His whole life changes. This is his
opportunity to leave and live a different life, a life
away from his family. He graduates from college
and pursues his Ph.D. at the University of Chicago.
He delves into Plato, Aristotle, Descartes and
others while shooting up drugs and making love to
women. After he gets his Ph.D., he starts writing
short stories and submitting them to various liter-
ary magazines. “He does all of these things, and he
sees his family less frequently.

“I’d promised myself that I would never spend
another Christmas under my father’s roof. Then
my mother left him and ﬂed to Roanoke with my
brothers and sisters in tow. Now I was obligated to
visit them, if only at Christmas. But nothing had
changed.”

want to face it. He had run so far away from his family
that when he did see them, he didn’t know them
anymore. One of his sisters becomes pregnant while
anotherone gets involved in drugs. Blake, his younger
brother, starts selling drugs in Roanoke and ends up
dead, shot by one of his customers. As he looks at his
brother’s body in the coroner’s room, he realizes how
much his town has changed. He notices for the ﬁrst
time how the industrial jobs have disappeared and
crack cocaine has come to take their place.

Staples writes a depressing story of a man’s es-
trangement from his family. He writes in clear, evoca-
tive prose, giving a vivid ﬂavor of the ‘60s and ‘70s.
He conjures up images of the fashions and the politics
of those time. He reminds us what growing up is like.
It gives us a window into our own experiences, our
feelings, our moments.

One thing bothered me. He mentions his girl-
friends, but I didn’t know who they were. He brings
them in and out at different points of the book. I kept
wondering what his personal relationships were like.

But, overall, I liked it. The depth of his family’s
problems and his separation from them moved me.
His story has a certain honesty. It spoke to me. He
talks about the past and our relationship to it. He
speaks to the difﬁculties of becoming independent
and keeping close to one’s family.

C&.M”S CIRACJCERJACJC 
MIXES J3 OCJC AND J-'O£JC

By CELESTE RASMUSSEN and WILL OLsoN

Phi Staff Writers

and rhythm.

“We really didn’t think about the candy when we named the record, the words just sounded good.” The candy to which Curnutte &
Maher is referring is Crackerjack, which also happens to be the name of their new album. The title may be the only aspect of the record into
which the band did not put much thought. Crackerjack consists of songs with a fresh, introspective message backed by a harmonic mix of guitar

The distinctive sound of Cumutte & Maher stems from the contrasting backgrounds and inﬂuences of the band’s two front men. Steve
Cumutte grew up listening to the Appalachian folk songs of West Virginia, while Matt Maher was raised in the urban setting of New Jersey
and enjoyed classic rock. They met and broke into the college music scene during their tenure at Wake Forest University. The melding of their
past experiences produced a type of music they describe as “Acoustic Folk,” a musical genre which combines honest lyrics with subtle country
undertones. Cumutte & Maher are currently touring colleges and coffeehouses nationwide, including an appearance last Tuesday evening at
W&L as the Spring Kick-off Band for the 1996 Mock Convention.

Cumutte & Maher’s songs in Crackerjack are mini-portraits of life, some light—hearted, others more reﬂective. They use visual imagery
and at times word play to convey emotions often lost in the recent explosion of acoustic-type bands. The album has been described as feeling
“as personal as a front porch jam and as universal as a rock and roll anthem.” For example, Cumutte & Maher discuss the transient nature of
hopes and dreams with lyrics such as “She wants to be seen as the girl of her dreams/At the alter on her wedding day/And the more she believes
in the things she can’t be/T he more she just fades away” in the song “American Fadeaway.” However, these emotions familiar to the electric
rock seem refreshingly new when set against traditional folk tones.

Indeed, Cumutte & Maher have captured the best of both worlds with Crackerjack. They have produced an album with an
uncompromising musical style that resists popular over-production and witty lyrics that can be appreciated by anyone with an ear for good music.

‘1

T

‘it

 

 

    

PAGE 4

W&LIF E

 

Sreveus commauos STAQé IN

PéRF'0R(I)Al\lCé or-* Mamxme F‘.

By COURTNEY E. MILLER
Phi Features Editor

This week marks the 50th anniversary of the liberation of
the Nazi concentration camps by American soldiers. “An
Evening with Madame F” was the second of three events
taking place at W&L in honor of the liberation.

Claudia Stevens conceived and wrote this for her one
woman performance as pianist/singer/actor. Other recent
career highlights for Stevens include her acclaimed full-
length piece, “Playing Paradise,” in which she will perform
during its European debut this May in Budapest.

“An evening with Madame F” opens under the pre-text of
a survivor of concentration camps speaking tour to publicize
her book. What follows the opening monologue is a rather
vague transition from book tour to dramatic re-enactment of
time spent at the concentration camps.

Stevens begins the ‘tour’ by attempting to answer some
difficult questions posed to her by fictitious audience mem-
bers. She stretches to deal with issues beyond that of the
horrors of the Nazi camps.

The piece explores the life and death experience of music

accounts, including that of Fania Fenelon, who performed in
the Women’s Orchestra at Auschwitz until her deportation
to Bergen Belsen.

The entire show seems to balance between the reconcile-
ment of the use of talent for the selﬁsh reason to preserve
one’s own life and the horrors of one in the Nazi camps.

Stevens commands the stage with voice and movement
that compel the audience to stay attentive during her 45
minute production. The music of the show is somewhat
limited in its scope, and draws away from the power of the
words.

Throughout the production, one finds it doubtful that in
"an auditorium somewhere in the United States” this woman
would find herself driven to the re—enactment that is por-
trayed on stage. The convenient location of a piano and
snare drum, also lend to inappropriate introduction to the
crux of the play.

Stevens intricately weaves the lyrical story of the tal-
ented musician who played and sang Madame Butterﬂy to
rescue her self from death through reflections made by the
older woman.

There is beauty and magic in the way which Stevens
portrays different characters with a change in accent, or
pitch, or even language. Although it is a one woman show,

one woman, but a multitude of characters.

The music and electric sound central to Madame F were
orchestrated by Fred Cohen. He holds a Doctorate in music
composition fonn Cornell University. Cohen’s composi-
tions have been perfonned throughout the United States
and in South America.

Use of electric sound is first introduced as a background
support of the playing of the snare drum. This sudden
interruption drew away from the performance and dis-
tracted the audience with its hollow artificial sound.

During the final scene of Madame F. electronic sound
is more eloquently and emotionally used. The voices, and
airplanes help to transport the audience to the place where
Madame F. is reliving her horrors.

“An Evening with Madame F” was commissioned for
Holocaust Remembrance Day in 1989 by the Richmond
Jewish Federation, and has been given numerous perfor-
mance s throughout the United States.

Overall this performance of “An Evening with Madame
F” was a moving and thoughtful look at an aspect of the
concentration camps not often addressed.

The third event will be May 4 in the Northern Audito-
rium of the Leybum Library. Zev Kedem, a documentary
ﬂlm maker and survivor of Auschwitz concentration camps

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28,1994

Senior Recitals

May 4 Mandy Irons
Vocals

May 9 Leland Yee
Pianist

May 11 Marina Jackson
Viola

May 16 Travis Grant
Clarinet

State Theater
(April 28 thru May 5)
PG-13 Don Juan Demarco
Johnny Depp &
Marlon Brando
R Rob Roy
Liam Neeson
Top Dog
Chuck Norris &
some dog

PG-13

performance in concentration camps, drawing upon survivor the audience is not left feeling as if they have experienced

 

 

 

 

q /vV\e\/es £5 6

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Reporter

One of the leading modern dance companies in America for the past 20 years,
the Philadelphia Dance Company performed last Tuesday at Lenfest Center,
offering to the audience a dance program impressive for both its variety and rigor.

To melodies produced by ﬂute and drums as well as by modern symphonies,
in addition to selections from leading pop and jazz artists, Philadanco (the
company’s affectionate nickname) presented four ballets, alike only in their
precision of movement and choreography of American origin.

The curtain upon Pacing, a ballet choreographed in 1986 by Milton Myers.
The ballet, set to the tribal-inﬂuenced music of Francis Belby, consisted of four
sections in which the company members ﬂung themselves into movement after
spell-binding motion of arms, legs and head.

Pacing was followed by Dreamtime, a ballet that premiered in 1988 to the
somewhat robotic and mechanical music of David Van Tieghem. Choreographer
Elisa Monte arranged the dancers in an intense series of angular poses, danced at
intervals by one dancer, several, or by many in a complex dialogue.

lf any members of the audience were as yet unmoved by Philadanco’s

will speak. Clips from Schindler’s List will be featured

J.°tFc¢rev\l: local:

performance, surely none were after the third ballet, Elegy. Here the company
danced with somber facial expressions and elegant poses, against a backdrop
pinpricked into a starry black sky. To the moving choreography of Gene Hill
Sagan, the audience fell silent until the last strains of Ralph Vaughn Williams’
rich orchestral music.

Philadanco closed the evening with a piece completed only this year, entitled
A Rag, A Bone, And A Hank of Hair. Dressed in swirling costumes of tangerine,
mint green, turquoise, and gold, the company members performed Talley
Beatty ’s fresh interpretations of pop hits by such artists as Prince and Earth, Wind
& Fire.

A ballad by jazz artist Natalie Cole provided the accompaniment for a pas de
deux of an interesting characher, performed by soloist Desiree Lynn Pina and a
ladder.

The wide array of dances presented Tuesday explain the popularity of
Philadanco, a company renowned-—as the program itself allluded—”for its
superbly trained dancers who dazzle audiences with their grace and athleticism.”
The company has earned so impressive a reputation not lonly throughout
America but in England, Europe and Asia as well.

Offering unique contributions to the world of modern dance, Philadanco
Dance Comapany , hailed by critic Nancy Goldner of The Philadelphia Inquirer
for its “extraordinary stamina as well as a real ﬂair for sensuous, rippling
movement,” delighted Tuesday’s audience into a standing ovation. Only after
several rounds of applause did the curtain ﬁnally fall on such a talented troupe of
dancers.

Hf

   

  

 
   

EMOTlONAL PAN.
COULD B00 CHEER

300116 In) PAN?

     

 
     

WHAT A800!‘
M3 DAN?

       
   
 

WHAT ABOUT THE
PAM 1 Feet,
Eveeu DA‘! OF
Ma LIFE’!

WHAT ABOUT
M5 Euoee S S

 

wwvA&wrm£
C9LOOM'l'\-(AT
DOMNATES M9

eveeu THOUGHT ?

WHAT A600?
Mu ctzusur-.0 Spurn‘?

-av-Ii-)ev9 .uvu by 555:0 3J.i3|0"‘|' inn-W34 svnv sbhl-9.1-‘L

  
     

       
   
 

  

WHAT ABOUT
THE UJRETCHEV em‘
1‘N\ Stuck In ?

wuor A6ouT
M9 QECUQEIAG
met-«Makes?

     
   

wan ABOUT M‘)
Dm'Hoco6tcAL
Depeession?

WHAT ABWV M3
FEELlrJC7§ OF
urrea uoerutssruess?

 

   

  
 

   
 
 

 
 
       
 

  

WHAT ABOUT M3
l1E&Lm6t‘ 0t= SHAME,
HUMlL.lATlOIs),
AND rmcwze ?

\;)\-um‘ ABOUT
MY) FEELMGC
OF Renae uuuovéoi

 
  
  

   
  
    

 
  
  

Tam»; Sou.
I FEEL MuCH,M°€l-l,
Mum, Mu cu Betree.

WHAT A800!‘
nu, THAT .7?

 

  

 GDC3 EIJCIZ)
M“

l

 
    

 

   

Students Needed!
Earn up to $2,000+/month working for Cruise
Ships or Land-Tour Companies. World Travel.
Seasonal and Full-Time employment available.
No experience necessary. For more information
call: Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext. C53421

MNEl9$N£ﬂE4Hﬂﬂ”b
LNlNG l-\N’l’lL‘i ‘Nl'l'l-\ l’fN\£.

NON iouiruii lay

   

lllil'll1« ‘ 

ﬂ \\/l?"""J/

 

WEN %E\.\:\= lﬁ T\-\'»;
MMMMNRMAUWNG
To D0 wmt ?\El_\(v\oN

f
.t
A U‘i‘\‘\\\\\'i*"i\‘.\i~\-.\\‘il\i

 

 

 
 

       

 

    

PAGE 6

Ellis ‘tliing-him ilﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1995

r"/

‘xx’

i
Uh...rescue workers continue to sort
through the rubble... the inV€*3’Clgatl0n
A Matter of Honor continues at this hour...  John Doe #2 

We have dedicated a portion of this issue to promot-
ing awareness of sexual assault. Unfortuanately, this
national problem invades our campus too often. It's
time for Washington and Lee University to wake up and
seriously begin dealing with its consequences.

Allow us to make something perfectly clear: Rape is
an honor violation.

We proclaim this with anger and urgency. For too
long Washington and Lee University has ignored the
cries of its sexual assault victims.

Why must I have to face my attacker every day on
the Hill? Where is the justice in the slap-on-the-wrist
punishment of social probation ? I was violated. He had
to skip a fraternity parties.

General Robert E. Lee established the Honor Code to 7*‘
promote gentlemanly conduct among his students. -v
There is nothing gentlemanly or honorable about A’
sexual assault.
Anyone can commit sexual assault. Likewise, any- 0 0 .
  ee e seem. (For see purpose es sees eeeeeeese. Time ripe to end taxing ordeal of taxes
we will use the pronoun he. It does not imply gender
and is S‘“°“Y “em”-) ‘s’e‘Z.S’.°.‘;‘.’.‘.’.l’S.lI‘..g.."s‘.‘.'..’.s‘;S‘.."s‘”.§§§Zl°‘3iai‘§§; §‘i§’.I.".‘{.’§‘“s’i§f’s§§‘l§’§.$%‘i§°.l2°3i'§°§Lli i‘.§‘.‘.’..‘i‘§ ‘$323323 “t'.“y°“s"‘s‘i’§."'s“s°x“'$i’.
A rapist lies and Steals, .7"  ‘ JOSHUA code. It has been estimated that victimizes everyone else. f Americans would cause the economy
. . _  ' HE Americans spend more than six billion According to Armey’s plan,a amily to surge.
A rapist lleS. He operates under the pretext Of being S,LINGA’ hours filing tax returns, and many of four would not pay any taxes until The ﬂat tax would also rein in
a gentleman worthy of respect given to any fellow 98 §’$’.?.',§l§?.?§i.§l’si.'é‘l.x"2§.§§.e.’sI‘..°.‘E.2§ L'L°.’.sZZ”l.‘i§’.s.§‘F.§’.'s‘isL';“‘}s§3£i§83?'$35 ‘g‘.’.‘3‘..3s’..§.s.§7éI{.?Zs"s”ei‘s‘3.'§.iusffi.‘lf{r?l .~
student_ He betrays that trust and and deceives pﬁyﬂi‘nttaxes.Armey’s plan would end yvhich pai;l9t::/80 percent of itsz jtncome in ;ex woultd inﬂate_tfhetclllef_icit,distqrting
, , _ a a. « axes in , now pays percen igures o magm y err projec ions.
ills Vlctlm. Now that the annual expression of A side-beneﬁt of simplicity is an (more than it spends on food, clothing, The Clinton Treasury charged that .
. . . . . . servitude to our government that we end to ourbyzantine system of lawyers and shelter combined). Such a family Armey’splanwouldcauseanadditional
Arapist steals. He I'ObS the VlCtlm Of her d1g1n1ty. He call taxes has just passed, it seems an a n d m a k i n g $244billion shortfall,afigurefabricated ,
- - o rtune time to reﬂect on this recent 1 hol . $50,000 b distortin Arrne ’s lanb includin ,
takes from her the plece of mlnd necessary for  aggﬁy and possible ways to prevent Isolgpmoi-Se —‘'"''_———_'j C ‘ T" would pay thyedeductiognsthatKisfgatmxﬁliminateﬁ .
ljvjn , He steals her Seem-it a ' ' subjectingourselves to it over and over legionsof _ , f 0 u r Armey’s more thoughtful and
g _ y nd I-epla_Ce_S It Wlth the again in coming years. t a x ...wa1lmg about reduced percent of accurate estimate projectsa$40 billion
fear and II11StI'uSt that rape su1'V1V1o1's spend One ofthe more intriguing ideas is aooouiaris revenue to the federal its income costtheﬁrstyear, much lessthaneither
. the ﬂat tax, a radical reform idea that a n d . . in taxes the cost of the House’s recent tax-cut
years 0V€fC0m1I1g- now is gathering momentum and lawyers government misses the Polnt u n d e r package or its planned spending cuts.
_ . . . . . . I , .
Raplsts sheen be pemsnee ee the renese exeeneefehe ::s:.’:.;‘..:::::’;;:.".:::;.::;';'.$.:'.%.:.*:; gaze. that today 8 government has ;.*.;.:“:.!..: ‘.3..“;.:°.;;°.'::::.:.%'°“*“’   ‘ex  
laws of both society and of Washington and Lee_ attheMockConventionSpringKickoff. proﬁtsby I_’ec0me_ too,pervas".)e’ f a m i 1 y But, in any case, wailing about i‘
_ _ The American taxpayer owes this helping intruding into all aspects Of m akin g reduced revenue to the federal
The StUdCI1tS Wlll tolerate thlS travesty no longer, rnomentumtotheRepublicanrevolution people  and vietimizing the $500,000" govemmentmissesthepointthattoday’s
W d d - in Congress and the ﬂat tax’s primary beat our . . . ,, would pay government has become too pervasive,
e eman aCt1OIl. , advocate, House Republican Leader current average famlly and cltlzeno 16 percent. intruding into all aspects of life and
The “Y5 when rapists Walk free on Campus are even i.’.“s’a’Z...’.Z’.'.'.‘.°sZt “"‘° "°"“ “ "“D' system. 22.. 2336; Zs‘s°s‘z‘§.‘.T‘ié‘§s ‘§'.ﬁy“§§2ig2.fﬁ'.?y'5Z 523
Anney’s plan calls fora17 percent No more largetaxcut offer growth incentives, fairness, and

Quote of the Week...

“I’m not going to Zollman’s tonight! There’s
no way! You’ll find me in the outhouse in the
morning!”

A female student overheard in the C 0-op pro-
moting responsible party behavior

has still not been apprehended... (stack)...
Okay. all 1“1glit...We now return you _
live coverage of the 0.5. Simpson ‘tY‘18l-..~

 
    

0 OUT

r: r-'

~34 .2‘,  .; .

 

flat tax rate on all income, minus
personal deductions. These deductions
would be$13,100for the single worker,
$26,200 for a married couple, and $5300
for each child. All other deductions
would be eliminated. Businesses would
also pay 17 percent on their net revenue
or profits.

The most obvious advantage to such
a plan is simplicity. Imagine completing
your tax return in five minutes on a

complex audits by armies of IRS agents.
No more shady tax evasion schemes.
No more politicians granting favors
through tax loopholes.

While proponents often cite
simplicity as their first argument for
the ﬂat tax, the greatest argument is its
essential fairness. Finally, our
Constitution’s equal protection would
be granted to everyone, whether
billionaire or destitute. Yet this does

would bolster the American family as
an institution and return control of much
of the taxpayer’s money to the taxpayer.

The flat tax would also end the
backward system of incentives currently
in place that penalizes everything from
marriage to initiative. By instituting the
same tax rate for all Americans,
enterprise and initiative would cease to
be frowned upon, the tax code would
cease to assault the American family,

simplicity, it begins to return the
American people’s time and money to
the people.

J ack Kemp said Tuesday, “Our tax
system is a national disgrace-—it should
be ﬂat, it should be fair, and it should be
simple.” The sooner the American
people realize this, the sooner they will
get the fair, growth-promoting tax code
that Kemp called for and that Anney
has proposed.

(J11: ﬂing-tum iﬁlri

Executive Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Hewlett

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord, Cindy Young

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scott Bookwalter

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Christine Gamavish, Courtney Miller

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alex Christensen, Phil Flickinger

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenni Grant

Advertisement Composition Artist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mark Tobias

Advertising Staff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Byrd

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but TheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (703) 462-4059
Fax (703) 462-4060

Winter rush would probably Work Well

MY VIEW
Steve Williard, ’97

Washington and Lee University does not exist
for the sole beneﬁt of the fraternity system.

In view of the arguments that I have heard both
for and against the prospect of winter rush, I don’t
see why there should be the uproar that
has occurred.

We are stewards of a great tradition. That is
most certainly true. However, the tradition is not
always quite as rosy as we make it seem.

The fraternity system is part of the legacy that
we inherit from those who have gone before us at
this university. Whether or not fall rush is an
integral part of this tradition is a matter of debate,
and, in recent weeks, hotly contested debate.

Why not give freshmen a chance to have a life
that goes beyond the doors of the fraternity house,
if only for a term? With a winter rush, the incoming
freshmen would at least have a chance to get to
meet and form friendships that are not forced upon
them by the constraints of a pledge program.

Fall rush is an artiﬁcial way to begin the college
experience. For the first weeks of college, the
freshmen are exposed to constant parties, usually
three times a week. For the large majority of
students, this is not the environment that we exist
in now. If it were, there wouldn’t be much of a
reason to raise the standards for Dean’s List and
Honor Roll.

A winter rush would, in all probability, be a
great deal more relaxed. Freshmen would have
already been through a term at W&L, and would
have a much better idea of what the social scene
was like, and possibly, a better idea of what indi-
vidual fraternities were like.

Professor Williams, willing or not, has become
a spokesperson for the benefits of winter rush. For
the most part, I have not found any fault with his
logic. Maybe, with a winter rush, freshmen would
come to realize that this university places a higher
premium on academic performance than frater-
nity involvement.

A student would have the chance to work through
a term and get an idea of the workload required at

W&L before even deciding on a fraternity. While
this works in theory, it might not work in practice.
Wouldn’t some people have already formed their
opinions on fraternities by the time rush rolled around?
If that is true, then what is wrong with people having
a chance to make a more informed decision
before joining?

In any case, a fall term rush is not the mainstay of
tradition that it is made out to be. A winter rush does

quite straightforwardly that the Greek system is the
pre-eminent aspect of campus.

While fall rush is in place at other schools, it is
much worse at W&L precisely because the school
has such a solid Greek system. Because so many
males msh, fall rush is a schoolwide event that
extends beyond fraternity males. It includes the
entire student body.

Whether or not the fall/winter rush issue repre-

nothing to the fraternity sentsathreat to student
system. Yes, it might be self-governance ap-
moredifﬁculttodealwith ‘ ‘ pearstobeamootpoint.
for the fraternities, but, Howcanadecision that
there is no reason why the is chieﬂy not in the
fraternities can’t make it In any case’ a fall term hands of students affect

work. The sororities seem

rush is not the mainstay of

student self-gover-

themakethesystemwork tradition that it is pnade out nance? No one has
well for them. - stepped in to challenge

I know quite well that to be’, A wlnter rush dO,es the EC, one of the most
the majority of students nothing t0 the fraternity independentbastionsof

oppose the plan as it
stands. I also know that
the IFC has an alternate
plan that calls for a fall
pledgeship. What does
fall pledgeship do to miti-
gate or remove the prob-
lems of rush coming too

system. Yes, it might be more
difﬁcult to deal with for the
fraternities, but, there is no
reason why the fraternities
can’t make it work. The
sororities seem to make the

student government
anywhere. In fact, stu-
dents have far broader
powers at Washington
and Lee than at most
other schools in the na-
tion. No, I don’t quite
see how our rightly fa-

soon, or there not bein mousstudentautonom
enough time to becomg system work well for has been sriously chal):
accustomed to col— them....I think we also owe Ienged.
lege life? - It remains to be seen
We have probably the lt t‘? the f 50 respect how well the new sys-
strongest fraternity sys- their d€ClSlOn... tem will function in the
tem in the country. That future. In all likelihood,
is one of the major (ifthestudentbodywill
strengths of the Univer- allow it) the new sys-
sity. From talking to tem will workjust ﬁne.

friends at other schools, our fraternity system runs
without many of the problems that plague
other campuses.

There is no reason to abolish this tradition. What
we can and should do, however, is prove that the
priorities of this campus rest squarely on academics
and that special treatment is not given to the frater-
nities. In my opinion, fall rush is a concession to the
fraternities. It is a concession in the worst possible
way. Fall rush, with the attention that it draws, says

The faculty know (or should know) to take student
suggestions seriously. I think we are owed at least
that much. We are, after all, able to vote and are, for
the most part, reasonably responsible. However, I
think that in this case, the student opinion was
taken into consideration.

I think we also owe it to the faculty to respect their
decision and not jump to accusing them af any
ulterior motives. They have more than earned
that right.

.4 #-
-.. -.v -

K4’

 

 

‘The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1995

 

OPINION

fHe1lo, I’11be your tour guide—suckers!’

GREEN LAND
if Betsy Green

This is really exciting: I have been
selected as a member of one of those
powerful three-letter committees. I am

.(a new member of the Student Recruit-
ment Committee (SRC). I will be giv-
ing tours to prospective students, and,
to paraphrase the handbook they gave
me, will be one of the ﬁrst representa-
tives of Washington and Lee those
‘prospectives and their parents will meet.
They also told me, “It’s yourrtour. You
can be as creative as you want.”
Those silly three-letter people.
I suppose now is the time that I should
‘ofﬁcially state in print that I really do
take my job seriously. I love W&L and
hope everyone else loves it as much as
I do, blah, blah, blah. But with that
aside, it’s fun to think of all I can do
-with a personalized tour of W&L.
My ﬁrst instinct was to think of spe-
cialized tours for groups with speciﬁc
interests. What gourmet wouldn’t love
“From Stop-In to Lee-Hi: A Culinary
Tour of Lexington”? Practical-minded
‘(folks will enjoy my tour of “The Best
Bathrooms at W&L.” Students will also
get some real W&L ﬂavor in a tour any
one of us could give: “Comfortable
Places On Campus to Sleep When You
k Really Should Be Working.”

My black little heart ﬁlls with glee
when I think about things I could say to
these prospectives and their parents to
leave them wondering about W&L. I

ii

‘i

fight the temptation to say things like,
“Washington and Lee has no problems
with asbestos,” “There are no rats in
Gilliam. No mice either,” or, “They’ve
asked me not to talk about Robinson
Hall anymore.”

Of course I’ll also have to mention
the thing about Washington and Lee
that scares Bocci Commissioner/Dean
Howison most of all: chocolate pud-

home to the Psychology Department,
Romance Languages, and the German
and Russian Studies Departments. It
has really pretty woodwork, which is
why I’m a Spanish major now.
Robinson Hall: l’ve heard the Math
and Computer Science Departments are
located here in Robinson Hall. I
wouldn’tknow,though,sinceI’vebeen
ducking that part of my gen eds for two

ding wres- y 6 8 I S
tling. What so far.

better way —’-"?—?“‘ C ‘ mi?‘ Wash-
to lure in g t o rt
prospectives I ﬁght the temptation to Ha”=The
than the tho l-k cw h- t interest-
possibility say lngs I e! as lng on ing thing
of rooting and Lee has no problems a b o u t
:'f§‘3"i H‘; with asbestos/_ ‘There are  I;
with their no rats ln Gllllam. N0 mice Hall is
Peers’-’ AS either,’or, ‘They’ve asked me * h 3 ‘
Rob Sein  b  b- you’ll
Pu, it, not to ta a ou o mson p,o,,,,b,y
“ M ayb e Hall anymore. ”’ n e v e r
you’re try- have oc-
ing to de- casion to
cide be- go to any

tween W&L and Davidson. You’re
probably thinking, ‘Hey, W&L has
pudding wrestling! I’m there!”’ Don’t
worry, His Excellency Bocci Commis-
sioner Howison.. .I also stress the strong
participation W&L has in intramural
Bocci and the commitment its students
have to heckling.

Naturally, I’ll have speciﬁc things to
say about the different buildings on
campus. For example:

Tucker Hall: This is Tucker Hall,

part of this building other than the
business office.

Payne Hall: If you’re ever in English
class and someone’s looking for you,
they might say, “I think she’s in Payne!”
(At this point, I’ll laugh heartily.) You
know...Payne...pain...forget it.

NewcombHalI: If you say ‘Newcomb
Hall’ really fast,:it sounds like ‘Nuke
‘em all.’ Huh, huh. Cool.

Lee Chapel: If, like my mom, you
actually read all of the plaques in Lee

 

PAGE 7
GENERAL
NOTES
Chapel, you’ll come away with the
feeling that the most important mes-
sageofWashington and LeeUniversity Calyx  Lecture

is, “Don’t swim in the North River.”

The University Center: The Univer-
sity Center is W&L’s pathetic excuse
for a student center. It doesn’t have a
bowling alley or anything, so don’t
bother looking for one.

The C-School: At this point, I’d like
to ask you all for a moment of silence in
reverence to the great edifice that is
the C-School.

The Bookstore: If you want to buy
any sweatshirts or anything, use my
student ID to charge them home to
my dad.

Leyburn Library: In the front of the
library, you can see a special display
devoted to my rival humor columnist
Richard Weaver. As you can see, there’s
a big picture of him wearing a seer-
sucker jacket, holding a straw boater
hat. Draw your own conclusions. Oh,
there are books and stuff here too.

ParmIyHall andHowe Hall: There’s
all kinds of stuff goingon in Parmly and
Howe that I don’t understand. They say
it’s science, but if you ask me, they’re
up to no good.

The Reeves Center and The Watson
Pavilion: Washington and Lee has one
of the largest collections of Asian ce-
ramics in the country. Go figure.

Yes, indeed, the SRC is one three-
letter committee that is inﬁnitely better
off with me as a member. Maybe some
day I’ll graduate to two letter commit-
tees. Just think what I could do with
the E.C.

it

LETTERS

Faculty, administrative breaches of student

autonomy have gone too far

To the editor:

Over the past several months, I have thought
extensively about the issues of student autonomy and

NI student governance, and I have followed closely the

debate about those issues that is growing on this
campus. Because of my experience with several
student-run committees and groups, I have some
deﬁnite opinions regarding this issue.

W« I feel that the current trend of administration and

faculty involvement in student affairs is thoroughly
unsatisfactory, and I am very concerned about the

increasing-control that the administration appears to «

be taking in student governance and student affairs.
By my judgment, many of the traditions that have
existed for decades and even centuries are
in jeopardy.I am most concerned about issues such as
the sophomore housing requirement and the move to
increase faculty intervention in traditionally student-
run organizations, although the issue of winter rush

f also concerns me.

The sophomore housing requirement, whatever it
may be billed as, is little more than an effort to erase
a ﬁnancial liability that is the result of a bad business
decision made years ago when those facilities in
question were built. The administration maintains

4 that the new requirement will promote class unity

and raise money to improve the educational opportu-
nities for the students. But what it really will do is
discriminate against women and independent men
who are not eligible to live in the recently renovated

y fraternity houses. It is completely wrong, wholly

unfair and should be repealed immediately.

In addition, I have heard and read about a possible
move by the administration to more closely oversee
student activities, and I have heard that a conglom-
eration of some of these committees (like the Student
Activities Board and the Fancy Dress Committee)
into one group may be in order. This move is simply
wrong, short-sighted, and damages a successful stu-
dent-run facet of college life by creating tension
between students and the administration where none
has previously existed. I am offended that some
people. don’t think that we students are capable
enough to set up our own activities. To oversee the
activities of students outside of the classroom repre-
sents an intrusion of authority where it is not needed
or wanted and gives the impression that the adminis-

tration doesn’t trust the students.

Considering the strong honor tradition on this
campus, to do something to create an impression of
mistrust serves only to ruin the community spirit that
supposedly exists here.

Also, to combine all or some of these committees
destroys a large number of very beneﬁcial leadership
positions. Some of the most practical experience I
have ever received in teamwork and in planning has
come through my involvement in these committees,
not in the classroom. No classroom assignment or
amount of lecturing can compare to the organiza-

tional and teamwork skillsthat are developed in these ’

committees, and they give students a chance to learn
valuable personal skills that would otherwise have to
be learned in the workplace.

Speciﬁc committees exist solely for the purpose
of coordinating student activities and these commitees
do a ﬁne job, especially considering that fraternities
and sororities handle many of the activities of well
over half of the students. We students have succesfully
run our own student activities for at least the past four
years, and we need to be told what to do now.
Michelle Richardson is a very ﬁne person, but as the
chairman of the Fancy Dress Committee this past
year I neither needed, sought not received any advice
from her, and I don’t think that the majority of the
students here needs or wants a person in her position.
If some student-run committees need occasional
assistance or advice, let them seek it on their own, but
under no circumstances should this assistance be
forced on anyone. I was glad to know that Ms.
Richardson could help the Committee if we needed
her, but I was even more glad to see that she didn’t try
to get involved where we didn’t need her. In my
opinion, her position caters to a minority of the
students at this school. If the school or some students
want to hire someone like Ms. Richardson to coordi-
nate student activities for those who need it, then they
should make sure that she is not forced to oversee
areas where she is not needed. In her present position,
her role at W&L where she serves only to assist
students who come directly to her is acceptable. I
fear, however, that Ms. Richardson is part of an on-
going effort to more tightly control student activities.
Her activities should be secondary to the efforts of
the SAB and the Greek organizations; students need
to control their own activities with as little assistance

1 Photos and Interviews by Betsy Green

If you could pick anyone for President, who would it be?

 

 

as possible.

The large amount of student freedom at Washing-
ton and Lee in comparison with other similar col-
leges and universities is becoming a sort of rallying
cry for some professors. Professor Craun was quoted
in a recent Phi article as saying “student organiza-

tions have so much more freedom from faculty '

supervision than anywhere else.” He seems to assert
that this extra freedom justiﬁes the removal of some
of it. This freedom is why many of us came to this
school, and I will not tolerate the removal of any of
it. The United States gives as many freedoms to its
citizens as any other country. Yet I guarantee you that
if the government suddenly canceled one of the
clauses in one of the amendments to our Constitu-
tion, a grass-roots revolution like the one that founded
this country 200 years ago would develop immedi-
ately.

The fact that we have so much freedom at W&L
doesn’t mean that it is right to remove some of it. In
the United States, the government is a by-product of
the citizens, and is by, of and for the people. Unfor-
tunately, the same can’t be said for this school.

In terms of the winter rush debate, Dean Howison
says in his recent letter to the Phi that coeducation
was an unpopular move when it was made, but it was
the correct move and W&L has proﬁted from it. He
is correct; coeducation has had many more positive
effects than negative ones on this campus. Just be-
cause the administration moved in spite of student
opinions there and succeeded does not mean that this
success will happen again with winter rush. Coedu-
cation and winter rush are completely different is-
sues, and any parallels drawn between them must be
carefully analyzed. The pressures that the students
feel in regard to winter rush are not the same as any
that students in opposition to coeducation likely felt;
thus, the notion that we did what they didn’t want
once, so we can do it again” is foolish. Winter rush is
not favored by the majority of W&L students, and
even Dean Howison concedes this fact. That state-
ment alone should deter the administration and fac-
ulty from involvement in it. We don’t want it, so
don’t give it to us.

In my opinion, most of these new ideas about

|I>See AUTONOMY, page 8

TALKBACK

 _

    

Students interested in free ’9l ,’92
and ’94 copies of the Calyx may
pick them up outside the Calyx of-
lice in the University Center.

Family Fair

The second annual “Choices for
Children - A Family Information
Fair” will be held Wednesday, May
3, from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m., inside the
National Guard Armory behind
Rockbridge County High School.
Over 50 area programs, agencies,
schools and preschools that provide
services to children will be on hand.
Lime Kiln Arts will be presenting a
preview oftheirnew play,LikeMeat
Loves Salt. Also at the fair will be a
juggler, clown, McGruff the Crime
Dog, Smokey Bear and animals from
the SPCA and Wildlife Center of
Virginia. There will be free ice cream
and balloons and door prizes. Ad-
mission is free. For more informa-
tion, call Fair Coordinator Carol
Burke at 464-8560.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society and the Student Activities
Department will be presenting
Quentin Tarantino’s Pulp Fiction
(USA, 1994), in English, in theTrou-
badour Theater at the corner of
Main and Henry Streets at 8:05
p.m. Friday, April 28 and in the
Dell behind the Leyburn Library
Saturday, April 29. In case of
rain, the Saturday showing will also
be held in the Troubadour. There is
no charge.

Internships

There will be an internship
weekly update meeting on Tuesday,
May 2 at 5 p.m. in the Mattingly
House conference room There will
also be an interview workshop on
Wednesday, May 3 at 4 p.m. in
Room 109 ofthe University Center.
All students are invited to attend.

Lost

A small, rectangular, blue cloth
,bag with a bright pink zipper was
lost in the freshman quad ‘area’ dur—'
ing FD week. lffound,contact Carol
Calkins at 462-8590.

Mock Convention

A cookout will be held in the
Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad from
5:30-6:30 p.m. Friday, April 28 as
part ofthe Spring Kickoff.

Col. John W. Ripley, USMC
(Ret.) and president of Southern
Virginia College, will be the speaker
for the second Marshall Lecture of
the year on Monday, May 8 at 7:30
p.m. in the Forrest C. Pogue Audi-
torium at the George Marshall Foun-
dation in Lexington. His topic will
be “Marshall in Victory.” The pub-
lic is welcome. For more informa-
tion, call 463-7103.

Polish Economist

Leszek Balcerowicz, Professor
of Economics at the Warsaw School
of Economics, Wiegand Distin-
guished Visiting Professor in De-
mocratization at Georgetown Uni-
versity, chairman of the political
party Freedom Union and former
deputy prime minister and minister
of ﬁnance of non-communist Po-
land, will speak on “Understanding
Post-Communist Transitions” in
Commerce School Room 221 May
1m3om

Road & River Relay

The Twentieth Annual Lexing-
ton Road and River Relay will be
held May 6. The Relay is for teams
of five or fewer. The first W&L
fraternity or sorority team to cross
the finish line will be awarded a
new rotating trophy. Entry forms
are available at LDDA, Rockbridge
Outfitters or the Lexington Bike
Shop. For more information, con-
tact Woodson Sadler at 463-7191.

Schindler Survivor

Contact and the Hillel Associa-
tion will sponsor “Schindler’s List:
A Survivor Celebrates Life,” a talk
by Zev Kedem, a documentary ﬁlm-
maker and survivor of Auschwitz
concentration camp who was saved
throught the efforts of industrialist
Oskar Schindler. The talk will fea-
ture clips from the Academy Award-
winning ﬁlm, and will be held in the
Northen Auditorium of the Leyburn
Library May 4 at 8 p.m. -

Swimming Lessons

‘ Washington and Lee University
is offering area residents swimming
lessons underthe direction of Aquat-
ics Director Page Remillard. Regis-
tration will be held at the W&L pool
on Saturday, April 29 at 10 a.m. The
lesson donation is $25 per session.
The ﬁrst session will be May 1-5
from 4—4:25 p.m. or 4:35-5 p.m. and
the second session will be May 8-12
from 4-4:25 p.m. or 4:35-5 p.m.

Tom Becker, ’96, Dumfries,
VA—“William Weld and Christine
Todd Whitman would by my ideal

"7' ticket. It would breathe new life into
the party.”

 

Kristi Liptak, ’9S, Atlanta,
GA—“Donnie, from the Palms, the
woman who works the door. I like her.”

Bob Ross, ’96, Oklahoma City,
0K—“.Iack Kemp, because I feel I’m
best friends with him now.”

Laurent Boetsch, Professor of
Romance Languages—“Sancho
Panza. He’s just the person we need at
this critical juncture. He governed an
island on a platform of common sense.
What could be more appealing?”

 

Layout by Alex Christensen

ti‘

  

Andria

G re e n e y ,
Smithtown, NY—“Mario Cuomo,
since I’m from New York. He needs a
job.”

’97,

Paul Saboe, ’97, Horsham,
PA—“Me, obviously.”

33

ta

3?.

rs

I‘-
312
titl

_«- .--

:Z='.~:}xSxL}.‘-.i.‘u.«u.-...s.s- 3.5.-|._<-;'

. ;L-..-..-s.-.-..»-;-;-
Lr -.i—_---.-.-.-_ -.

  

PAGE 8

OPINION

Faculty breaches of autonomy have gone too far

II>From AUTONOMY, page 7

faculty and administrative intervention
stem from an attempt to compete with
other similar liberal arts schools, nota-
bly Davidson, which is the only other
prominent Southern school in the U.S.
News and World Report rankings.
This phenomenon is the
“Amherstization” that Nicholas Waddy
has so eloquently written about. W&L
did not get to be where it is today by
following the lead of other schools,
and now is not the time to try to mimic
Harvard or whoever. If I wanted an Ivy
League education with all its political
correctness and student controls, then I
would have gone there. Frankly, I could
not care less about those rankings; there
is so much more to education than

  CHIAR

‘ l

teaming from books, and the fact that
U.S. News and World Report over-
looks these opportunities that distin-
guish W&L from the rank-and-ﬁle Ivy
League schools is its loss, not mine.
l’m here primarily to learn and grow in
a positive and student-oriented envi-
ronment, and not to be able to put some
single-digit number on my resume’.

Frankly, I can’t understand why
the faculty has to oppose the students
with such force and why the admin-
istration and some faculty members
seem to turn such a deaf ear to student
ideas and problems. The professors
and administration members are here
only because of the students, and I
don’t like the way that large-scale de-
cisions on this campus are made with
little or no student input.

This is an institution oflearning and

‘T’ H E
INV£'5‘TIGAToR

lgroccolai

iteati

?l

not a prison; we students have a right to
control our own lives outside of the
immediate classroom.

I do not appreciate infringement of
my rights by anyone, especially when
it concerns my social activities and
living arrangements.

Faculty and administration mem-
bers take note: I am no left-wing liberal
crackpot who feels that this school
owes him anything more than he has
earned. I am a mainstream and suc-
cessful W&L student, and I believe
that my ideas are in line with the beliefs
of a significant portion of the student
population. I am asking you to step
back and listen to what we have to say
before you completely alienate the
people that you are supposedly trying
to educate.

I am hopeful that this debate be-

. ,_ . .,/.

1,-

Vllllllllllllllllllllll
15121. \\\\\x\\\\\\

Vllllll/IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll

0‘ \\\\\§
 Il"l4
~§§~.\\\\\
VIIIIIIIIII/I‘

I

\

v

.\ “@-

I In ")IllIIl IIIIIII
..\:\\“ :\\\\\\

'Il

uh

K\\\\‘. \\\\ 

7111111!

~§\\'.‘§\\“‘
rllllI::n:qllll
\\“jCj—\

VIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIA
\\\\\x\_.'  lR\‘.\\\x\\\‘\~\S
\\&\\\\\\\\\\\‘.\\\\\‘
\\AXs\\.\\\\\\\t~\\\i\\\§§‘
qzlllllltllp
‘\\ _  . . .

l

\\~,<~1\\\\~«<~.~c\s\\\
llllllllllll

tween the students and the faculty and
administration can be resolved in a
compromising and peaceful manner,
but given the polarization of the sides I
fear that it cannot be. I am angry and
frustrated by the administration and
many of the faculty members, but I am
perfectly willing to discuss my opin-
ions with any dissenters, be they stu-
dent, faculty or administration. How-
ever, until I feel that this apparent se-
ries of moves without regard for stu-
dent opinion comes to an end, I hereby
pledge never to give so much as one
dollar to this school, and I urge other
students to do the same. I regret that it
has to come to this, but a man has to
stand up for what he believes is right.
Just ask Robert E. Lee.

Joseph B. Framptom, ’9S

7/"

’\

I

\

§\’\\\\

The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1995

Y

Letters correction

In the April 21 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, a letter to the editor from
Joshua Heslinga ran under the headline, “Leadership lacking on winter
rush issue.” In the published letter, the statement should have read, “It also

strikes me as absurd for Professor Williams to say that he does not know .

anyone who wants to get rid of fraternities.” The mistake was purely the
result of interpolation by the typist and incomplete proofreading. The Phi
apologizes to Joshua Heslinga and Professor Williams for the error and any
confusion it may have caused.

Correction

In the story about Honor Roll changes in the April 21 issue, Professor
Hodges should have been quoted as saying, “We must respect the students
who really do achieve excellence.” The Ring-tum Phi regrets any confu-
sion over Professor Hodges’s meaning.

 

ALASKA

HELP WANTED

Men/Women earn up to $480
weekly assembling circuit
boards/electronic components
at home. Experience unnec-
essary, will train. Immediate
openings in your local area.
Call 1-602-680-7444
Ext. 102C.

    

WANTED :
Female Housemade

Ring.
Tum. Phi.
Tucsdogs.

7:00.

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
- Fishing Industry -
Students Needed! Earn up to
$3,000-$6,000+/month. Many em-
ployers provide room & board & trans-
portation. Male or Female. No expe-
rience necessary. Join thousands of
otherstudentsand enjoythc mostbeau-
tiful scenery the U.S. has to offer!

1-206-545-4155 ext AS3421
Student Employment Services

Great house near town.
Rent based on
exchange of service.
463-3346

 

   

' Do You Want VISA & MasterCard red” Cards?

     
   

7I7a¢7/aha

«mamas STORES ”

     

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. — Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

Screen Printed Textiles

  

 

Dondero

Incorporated

  

 ;Q0_M MAIN 0FFlCE&SCREEN PRINT SHOP

- plaques
- trophies
. custom engraving

advertising specialties -

l:l

 

promotional products

 

artment f0rR t fcmrus Cum. Box 2206::-5. Ilouxuooo. Fl. 33022 _;
I/A12 en - . u
3 w OF °e %i°e'Z.°€i'ai."ui°.'3:ii_"v'iai'o':‘nii°°u.'Q"eg”<§.'.ir': i  twumvrsno/msrI:RcARD°0uI|!_¢ u
est Pre,StOn cu.-dIu:rdu..'|nyounmne.' EVEN IFYOUARBNEWIN I anuuppmved lgnmedtatety. 100% GIIARANTIIIII I
Downstairs CREWIMY3 "“"“’“f°c:: :‘:‘_’“"‘ : :
Apartment  gs.-'-m—aooKs—nerARmgtswr | NAME I

W. . . STORES—1'lJl'|'lON‘-EN'l'ERTAlMAEN'l'— . I
1th1n Walkrng - auzpueucv mm-runs-IwsT¢_I_g;3_ms— . ADDRESS   . y a
Distance of W&L I nu-x'ms—'”' m”n;ro mnmvounicmnrrm‘mm‘ : crw s'rA'rr-:_zn>_..._ 
Campus Io turn dons! I .P"°"E 55' it

5‘ ' I GNATURE '

Call 261-6478 After _..«v~=:'..2 :°.;$‘.,.‘,:.;":‘.:.‘,:... . ‘§,',,,,_,,,.,,,.,_,,,,,.,...e._..._...,..................... -
I9‘ uI1":o|“ , A - I vuuauigncuunoenudwsnustcu-euuvlsnhunlu-I 3

5:00   SEND TIE COIPOI TONY . -AI

Your: CREDIT cums ARE umne! !____________________,----...!

 

IE.

    
        
       
           
     
   
    

171f2SouthRando|phStreet no. Box408/State Route 710 west —

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Fairﬁeld, Virginia 24435 

Phone: 703 463- 2618 Phone: 703 348-6753 & 377-6753 ' '
Fax: 703 377-6418

     

   
  
   
  
 
 
   

 

CLOSEOUT SALE NOW Lexington
ON
ROAD AND BIKE

MOUNTAIN BIKES
ALL SALE BIKES MARKED
DOWN 15%-30% 
Diamond Back, TREK, Brid estone,   Maln
463-7969

Giant,and Cignal inclu ed
Full warranty and 60 day free service

   
   
       
 

I-etus
combine!!!
  your debts intorone;
    ‘ . , easy-to-mnage.pI 
Badcredttnoproblern.AI.I.acccptedbasedort topay;
. FA8l"ll.PI8Jl8‘l.‘-IPl$lCAI.I.hAYl'
, canday

      

 
 

_ ormgml-35-537-3517; (211 an ntconnrm
  for « FREEAPPl1CA1IONorwntc:
. BOX 545. Hotmioon. FL 33022

   
   

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
people interested in working in the
areas of advertising and business.

Contact Bob Nelson, Phi Business
Manager, at 462-4059 for more
information.

 

<1

   
  

.z"‘The Ring-tum Phi, April 28, 1995

’$’$¥¥’§‘~1§‘~¥%?~“$¥¥1$“$¥¥¥3$¥¥3$¥¥¥¥~¥¥¥

M *1

~ Hamsteetet
~ MEA LOW pnrcss:

Buy Otto 8.6 Oz. Pkg. Eggo
Cinnamon
    Toast Wallles
4   nd Get One

  
    
 
      
 

Sl tdV 't'   H t sh CheddarOr
Lgniiieﬁs we ms 79¢ M‘:;z:'rell:gitredded 19
Cheese 8oz.

Bagels _9-12
V Russet

Baking
Potatoes

    3/

   

lb.

. ftDl \ - o . st tavjitfes , ,
'S(lri:ed e "Xe 29 Rgggéwaellg ' 239 T “i
Sauce ....

Cheese __12 oz.

0
Harris Teeter at Myrtle Beach!
Harris Teeter, The Premier Supermarket in

Myrtle Beach,

South Carolina is Seeking Energetic,
 Customer Oriented, Team Members

  ’ Full Time a Part Time Positions ln All Areas
  Of Our Upscale Stores. lncentrves lnclude:

 -   -Flexible Hours -Competitive Pay
 -Fun Team Atmosphere

 

X

   

E
Prices ff ctive Through May 2, 1995

 V Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, April 26 Th h May 2, 95 in our Lex' ton store
4 0n|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None To De . We Liladly Ac t-eoeta: ruOd Stamps.

 v‘¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥“$¥“$¥3?“$¥¥4‘$1$¥2DU§’~¥¥’$’$¥’$¥¥

 

Y % 

 

PAGE 9
F \
‘Rte!
Senior Deutsch deﬁnitely on For ﬁrs! ti in te asons, Wash-
target Saturday ODACc mpionships. ington and did n rium 'n the ODAC
The se ' co-captain helped W ull men's tennis champi ips.
w y to capture ODAC title by rackin 22 However.t eam's second place ﬁnish
at points, tops on th uad. could not be bla on junior Ryan Aday.
She placed i 1 three events that she Aday, hree-seed, became the only
competed in. W&L player to win a singles title.
Deutsch outranthe competition to winthe He dumped Lynchburg's first-seeded
1500-meter run I, a person whom he h st to during the
She pro shecould stro y end in H, in straight Sets. 5-4, - -
distance by ' hing second ' ' e —meter If that wasn't impressive enough, Aday,
, and fou ‘ the 3000-me n. alon 'th his double art e , ju ' r Clay
De could v w serve a career Richar , pulled out the bi ‘tie e num-
achievementa forW 'ngton and Lee sports. ber three seed.
In he r years, she has greatly contrib- Aday and Richards have been a duo to be
uted to thr utdoor and indoor track cha ‘- reckone ' h t ' ear.
onships. earned let 'n three of those - tw v mbined t I up a 12-
sons. 2 mark in doubles ma s during eason.
Also, Deutsch was the captain of the Aday will bring a 13- 'ngles record
women'scrosscountrysquad,whereshe helpedthe into the Generals’ ﬁnal meet ' weekend at
team garner three ODAC titles. Washington College.
NO

The Ring-tum Phl is proud to serve you each week
Feel free to Contact us at our office —- 462-4059
Interested writers should come to our meetings on Tuesdays at 7 pm

          

   

To HEIJ’ wmi Tl-IOSEEXAM BLUES APRIL 26TH THROUGH MAY 1211':

PRE-EXAM WEEK SALE
EXTRA

 

FRE li H .\’.»\.\'C [AL A l l).
tudents!

           
     
    

entlon

 
     
 

        
      

   

     

FRE e ' ntl available for
Co gttlu _ cu_ atioiiwide. _Over  
$6 llotn in t IS npw&aval:l STOREWIDE
or ran s sc 0 - . .

sliilpns-pwllat secnts Ere eligible to re-  ¥%';‘§es"l:P6"u8aﬁ“d Setting 50% to 80% Off
ceive some of aid r°sard'°Ss °f At UnBelievab 'ces EVERYDAY
Ereades, income, or parent s ’ me.

tlush¢1Pyou_[«‘o,-moreinfo "on 17 S. Maln St. 463-9730 Hours: Mon-Sat 9:30-5:30
cal :

St dent Finan ' Services T «
l_8o«3_m_m5 L mm GIF Catalog Outlets

   
  
 

   

  

Sl<YDiVE ViR9iN 5A!

Train and make your first parachute
jump in one day. Skydive Virginias
staff has 30+ years instructional expe-

_ wraparound deck
rience. For brochure call 1-800-414- scenic & quiet
DIVE call 464-1892 anytime

 

  oppogowo

Ladies ’Shoes, Clothing
andA ccessories

FOR RENT

1200 sq. ft. apartm
4 bedrooms, 2 ba
family room & kitchen

private entrances

 
   
       
   
 
  

\

  

Winter Clearance Sale

  

23 N. Main St.
/ Lexington, VA 24450

 a

(703)463-5988

   
   

 
 

\\

 

   
    
   

 

Gou-‘ -
BASEBALL -
WLAFROSSF. -
MLAtkossi-: -
W'I‘sNNis -

Last Week:

1st at ODAC Championship
W, 13-10, L, 10-5 to Guilford, L, 6-1 to VMI
W, 5-4 vs. Frostburg St.

L, 9-2 to Denison
1 st at ODAC Championship

Cine iﬂing-tum lﬂht

SPORTS

This Week:   9’

MLAcnossn- Sat. at Washington College 1:30 PM
WLAcnoesn- This weekend in ODAC Tournament

M'I‘anNis-

Sat. at Washington College 11:00AM

M'I‘t-:NNis - 2nd at ODAC Championship V
TRACK - Women lst, Men 3rd at ODAC Championship 
PAGE 10 BASEBALL, GOLF, TENNIS, TRACK, LACROSSE APRIL 28, 1995

 
 
  
 
 
     

. ttient-.8 ., New

asone night

, as “Speaking

 

* ‘However, as I
. at that dinner,
 can recall him

    

  
   

f"‘ants{iuthe;CEV_*

   

for an answer.

be found.
Certainly,

   

8' ‘ortswriters,

  How many

        
     
   
 
  

wins...

  
  
    
      

erence. v

liassports

    
   

f. .
Lasmzesday,   . --
na.announcedihisfretire 
' , .- oward ‘V
osel}, the tegejndary’ 
ports  broadcaster, _*:d_ie‘
‘S‘uniiay1morning of _aj‘hea1,'t. I . :-
‘ tnboiism. He was 77. 3‘, 

The first timelremetn‘-f 
hearing Cose1i’s.name. , j

 ;11adjso_rne friends over for ‘
;:’,Ii’;dinner,‘and they were all
1 discussing some com-
 ments that Howard made.
{j I ; ldecided I was going
," to‘ find out about this
Howard. Cosell guy’. 1
‘ . vaguely; remember watch-
ing I1iS"‘.Sportsbeat” pro-
 en; ABC, where he
would always’ interview a

L prominent sports star.

‘ . ABC discontinued
“Sportsbeat” in 1985. Al-
though Howard stiltbroad-
casted radio programssuch

I hebasically vanished from
public View after 1985.
. . a~it’s.a shame that he de-
iﬂgparted so soon, because
] rnostof us are too young to
1;, "remember his

. Howard first came to

prominence in the late
 i:,19,60,’s. Probably his most
 ‘famous moment occurred
. Iwheti he defended the de-
 cision ofan arrogant black
 boxernarned Muhammad

His ﬁnnouswd  .
‘£ches,':aswe}l;fas..offer- ‘ -
; Ago helptelecastian ex~ .
 tremety ‘risky }2r§m__e~.time,,
 sports program ;in'.—‘i970.. , 8 ‘
Twenty-five; years later,‘
0 _“l\/londay Night Football” A
 gbecomeone of the gi~ A

, _ Asjfamousas Oosellbe~
 catne, he“ never ‘lost his fo-
cus as a journalist. Howard
never took “no comment”

find 3 story where there
seemingly was nothing to

 lacked tact. He denigrated

 if . cross, and made gener-
', I gaiIy".0brtoXious comments.

‘ ‘Howard claimed he was 1
_ just “—‘telIing’it like it is”. '

nouncing,liewo’uld‘ ;
P36"-‘9‘52i”f‘.’f‘“ ‘hf-5‘

but. since; »
jjhonestya sin? 

_ loin ng:w_a:’e if
hen-weihave an 9

out onracism, andfi
in boxing.‘ _As he
taiadizigup forwhat -
eve in,we can make

vvuhdco-sell. lThe‘.}.,’,.
ho“never played the  ~
«.‘revolutionized‘v' .
sxbroadcasting, as
V ' i in general-
Th  will: act? be 

 

 
  

my parents

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

ODAC Championship, here we come!

Sophomore Hilton Hines (12) weaves her way through Frostburg State defenders during the
Generals‘ 5-4 triumph Saturday afternoon at the Liberty Hall Fields

of Sports”,

best work.
discovered

our parents
in detail.

By KEITH GRANT
P/zi Staff Writer

‘ a 12:30

ODAC).

yean

3:00 PM.

industry.

For the second time in three
seasons the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference women’s la-
crosse Final Four comes to the
Liberty Hall Fields.

The Generals (9-4, 6-1
ODAC) open action Friday with
rematch against
Lynchburg, who won the regular
season meeting, 13-5.

W&L, the regular season
ODAC champion and the
toumament’s top seed, will have
home field advantage when they
face the Hornets (9-6, 5-2

Lynchburg knocked the Gen-
erals out in the semiﬁnals of the
1990 tournament, and again last

TheODAC’ssecondandthird
place teams, Roanoke and
Randolph-Macon, face-off at

Roanoke defeated the Yel-
low-Jackets last weekend, 16-4,
to earn the second seed.

Friday’s winners will meet
for the conference championship
on Saturday at 2:00 PM on the
Liberty Hall Fields.

Golfers grab title

W&L enters the tournament
having posted consecutive one-
goal wins over Roanoke, then the
nation’sseventh-rankedteam,and
Frostburg State, 5-4.

Frostburg led 4-2 at the half
over the struggling Generals, but
W&L battled back with an im-
pressive final 30 minutes,
outscoring the Bobcats 3-0.

With the game knotted at 4-4,
freshman Mary Jo Mahoney
scored her ninth goal of the season
with 4:21 left for the 5-4 victory.

Mahoney had also scored the
deciding goal at Roanoke as the
Generals clinched the regular sea-
son ODAC title.

Sophomore Brooke Glenn
stopped 16 shots in goal to break
the school single-season record
with 177 saves on the year. The
sophomore topped Erica
lngersoll’s old mark of 169 from
the 1989 season.

Glenn’s236careersaves place
her third on W&L’s all-time list,
52 behind Sarah Smith, who
stopped 288 shots from 1992-94.

Lynchburg, last year’s runner-
up to Roanoke, fell to fourth in the
ODACstandings following losses
to the Maroons and R-MC. Yet,
they had no trouble playing their
way into the semifinals with a 16-

5 win over Bridgewater in
Tuesday’s opening round.

Lynchburg is seeking its sixth
conference championship ever,
but ﬁrst since 1989.

Randolph-Macon beat Sweet
Briar, 14-2, in the other playoff
match-up.

The Hornets feature a high-
powered offense anchored by
junior Caitlin Sarkisian, who
scored five times versus
Bridgewater.

Sarkisian, Jessica Satinsky
and Carolyn*Roth will try to break
the Generals strong defensive
corps of senior Sarah
Aschenbach, sophomore Carrie
Borish and senior tri-captain
Carrie Niederer. Niederer was a
ﬁrst-teamAll-Southdefenderlast
season.

Defense could be the key in
all of this weekend’s action, as
all four teams boast goaltenders
who stop roughly sixty percent
of the shots against them.

Randolph-Macon, though,
could be the team with enough
ﬁrepower to shoot their way to
the title.

Junior Alison Smith (65 goals,
33 assists) is the league’s scoring
leader. She and sophomore
Heather Sinclair combined for

Baseball

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

He would

shoes to fill.

Coseil

lambasted

championship.
times have‘-

the Year.

  

  
  
  

   
  

When Bill Raleigh took over the head coaching duties for Wash- ~
ington & Lee’s golfteam last summer, he knew he had some pretty big

Raleigh became just the third coach in the 68-year history of the
program. When Buck Leslie retired last spring after a five-decade
relationship with Washington & Lee athletics, Raleigh was chosen to
lead the golf team in the interim.

Last weekend, just three weeks after Elmira Collcge’s Kevin
Moore was named W&L’s new head basketball and golf coach,
Raleigh coached his squad to the Old Dominion Athletic Conference

The Generals edged Guilford by one stroke, shooting a 631 for the
.we;ali‘beeawatchinga31- “ﬂe-
‘ 7} football game and heard

“ ' nouncers describe‘.-

Raleigh, in his lone season as successor to W&Lcoaching legends
Cy Twombly and Leslie, was then honored as the ODAC’s Coach of

The Generals’ title was their eighth since the beginning of ODAC
play in 1977 and the school’s fifth in eight years.

Sophomore J ay Ingram was the individual winner with a 152, one
stroke ahead of Guilford’s Jamie McPherson and Randolph-Macon’s
Galen Foulois. Ingram shot a 71 on the toumament’s opening day.

W&L junior Gam Mattingly ﬁnished fourth with a 155, earning
All-Tournament team recognition along with Ingram.

The ODAC Playerof the Year award went tothe toumament’s 14th
place ﬁnisher. Sophomore Tommy Dudley shot just a two-day 162.
However, his season average of 76.2 per round and consistent play all
year was good enough to become the sixth General to receive Player
of the Year status.

Dudley’s opening day 79 at the tournament was his 12th consecu-
tive round under 80. Included in that stretch was a school-record 68
two weeks ago at Virginia Wesleyan.

Junior Trevor Spencer (163, 17th place) and Scott Miller (169,
26th) rounded out the top ﬁve for W&L.

The ODAC trophy is one more piece of hardware on a crowded
shelf of golf championship awards for Washington & Lee. During
Twombly’s reign from 1927 until his death in 1974, W&L won two
Southern Conference titles and six state championships.

Leslie’s 20 years with the golf team brought the school seven
ODAC tournament wins.

He also guided the Generals into five NCAA Division III Touma-
ments, where they placed in the top 10 three times.

.. The ’95 Generals must wait to see if they’ll receive a bid to
‘i. nationals, which will be held in mid-May at Terre Haute, Indiana.

It was a major league type
week for the Washington and
Lee baseball team as it earned six
decisions in eight days.

On Monday, the Generals
completed a suspended game
with Old DominionAthleticCon—
ference rival Hampden Sydney.
W&L won the contest, 11-10.
However, the Generals dropped
the ensuing game to the Tigers
by the count of 9-6.

Lynchburg then crushed the
Generals on Thursday in a game
the W&L pitching staff would
rather forget as six Generals hurl-
ers stepped to the mound.

The ﬁnal tally for the game
left the Generals on the short end

Women’s lacrosse team prepares for
upcoming ODAC Championships

144 points this season.

Roanoke is playing the sea-
son without formcr ﬁrst-team All-
South selection Liz Florence (91
career goals), but All—ODAC
goalie Kathleen Ostar has helped
lead the Maroons to contention
for a NCAA Tournament bid.

A pair of wins this weekend
would give the school its sixth
conference championship in nine
years.

The Generals are after their
third tournament title. They took
home the 1992 crown with a 10-
9 overtime upset at Roanoke, and
won the 1993 championship at
the Liberty Hall Fields, 7-6, with
a last-second goal by Nicole
Ripken, one of six W&L seniors
wrapping up their careers.

Aschenbach, Ripken,
Niederer, Dana Cornell, Meredith
Long, and Lindsay Coleman will
take the Liberty Hall Fields for
the ﬁnal time.

Their careers have led the
Generals to a 43-17 four-year
record entering Friday’s semiﬁ-
nal.

The Generals’ Friday semiﬁ-
nal will be broadcasted on
WLUR-Lexington (91.5-FM),as
will the championship game on
Saturday should W&L advance.

wraps up

of a 17-4 count.

W&L looked strong early on
as it jumped out to a 2-0 lead on
a two run single by Bates Brown.

The Hornets responded with
a four run second, and took over
for good in the third as they chased
starting pitcher Brett Hartman
(2-4) from the game.

A doubleheader on Saturday
against Guilford brought the end
of the season nearer as the Gen-
erals split with the Quakers.
W&L won the ﬁrst game, 13-10,
but dropped the second contest,
10-5.

The ﬁnal contest of the year
came on Tuesday against Divi-
sion I foe VMI. The Generals
turned in a tough game, but fell to
the Kcydets, 6-1, in the non-con-
ference match.

Offense was lacking as the

Track squads look
strong at ODACs o

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s track teams pro 4
to the rest of the conference that they are among the best, posting th rd
and ﬁrst place ﬁnishes, respectively, in last weekend's ODAC

Outdoor Championships.

The W&L men’s track team got solid individual perfomtances‘
from both upper and undcrclassmen, and earned a third place overall‘

ﬁnish this past weekend at the ODAC Championships. iv . ’

Junior Harris Morrison won the pole vault by vaulting 14 feet,
equal to his personal best. Freshman Jason Callen was the other ﬁrst
place ﬁnisher in the men’s events. He cruised to victory in the 5,000
meter race, posting a time of 15.32.74. His closest opponent ﬁnished

eight seconds behind him.

Two W&L athletes posted second place ﬁnishes as well. Fredir
man shot-putter Omar Moneim reached 41 feet and seven inches, his

best toss of the season.

Senior Grant Cowell came close to giving the Generals a victory‘
in the 800 meters, but he was beaten at the ﬁnish line by a mere one-

tenth of a second.

* £

Other W&L athletes who placed at the ODACs were senior Hayne
Hodges and freshman Brian Huse. Hodges made a strong showing

sixth in the 200 meters. Huse fared well in the jump events. '

in the two sprint events. He placed fourth in the 100 meter dash it?

achieved his season-best in the long jump, and managed a sixth-pl’ e

ﬁnish in the high jump.

After finishing second at the ODAC Indoor Championships this
February, the W&L women’s track team claimed the conference title‘
by defeating Lynchburg last weekend. ‘

The Generals had their work cut out for them, holding on to a slim, I

five point lead with two races remaining. They responded by
sweeping the top three places in the 3,000 meter run, and sealed the.

title by winning the ﬁnal race, the 1,600 meters. ’
The women helped their title hopes by recording ﬁrst place

finishes in six out of sixteen events. The senior trio of Sarah Gilbert,’
Sue Deutsch, and Kim Herring, won the high jump, the 1,500 meters,

and the 800 meters, respectively.

Deutsch punctuated her victory by posting a time of 2:25.38, a
conference record. She led the way for the Generals in the meet,

scoring 22 points for the team.

Other ﬁrst place ﬁnishers included junior Sandra Holmes, who
won the javelin, and junior long-distance specialist Josephiﬂe
Schaeffer, who took ﬁrst in the 3,000 meter run.

The 1,600 relay team of Herring, and sophomores Heath Acuff,
Hollis Leddy, and Megan Hovda also added aconference record time

to their win.

Leddy was another who entered her name in the record books,
beating her own school record time in the four-hundred.

Women's Tennis:

The Generals continued
their dominance of the
ODAC, as they coasted to
their ﬁfth straight ODAC
title last weekend.

W&L blew out the sec-
ond place squad, Guilford,
by 17 points.

The Generals captured
5 of the 6 singles, and all 3
doubles matches.

Senior Marilyn Baker
was named ODAC Player
of the Year for the third
time after winning the num-
ber 1 singles championship;

General Minlcaps  

Men's Lacrosse:

There was good and bad
news for the W&L men's ‘
lax squad last Saturday. .

The bad news was that
the Generals continued
their late-season slide by
dropping a 9-2 decision to
12th-ranked Denison.

However, the good‘
news was that Hampden-
Sydney knocked off
Roanoke later that night,
catapulting W&Ltoashare
of the regular season title.»

W&L ﬁnishes at Wash-
ington Oollege tomorrow)

;_..

sixth place season ‘

Generals posted only one run dur-
ing the contest. They kept close,
however, as starter Hartman
hurled four strong innings, only
allowing 2 runs.

VMI exploded with a four run
fifth against reliever Bates
Brown, as it ﬁnally pulled away
to the ﬁnal margin.

Sophomore Tucker Bixby led
the way at the plate for W&L. He
went 1-2 with a double and was
the only General to cross the plate
on the afternoon.

The ﬁnal record for the Gen-
erals is 8-19 overall and 5-11 in
the ODAC. Despite the losing
record, the W&Lbats were warm
throughout the year with a team
.287 mark.

Bates Brown was the key
throughout the last week just as
he was throughout the year. The

    

Photo by Betsy Green, Iiing-tum Phi
The Generals split a doubleheader against Guilford. W&L finished at 8-19.

senior ﬁnished his career by cam-
ing both of the wins during the
week. Brown also showed up
with his bat, going 7-16 before
the VMI game, working out to a
.438 clip.

Preston Millerand Bixby haﬁe
come to the forefront as major
threats at the plate for the Gener-
als. In the doubleheader against
Guilford, Miller went 5-8 with
three doubles and driving in three
runs. Bixby has roared back
an early season injury to raise his
average by 150 points to third on
the team at .333.

The W&L squad has a num-
bcr of seniors that played their
last baseball for W&L on Tues-
day. Bates Brown, Brett Hartman,
Ryan Roberts, Todd Stanton,
Geren Steiner, and Duane Van
Arsdale all played their ﬁrﬁl
game as Generals.

Head coach J eff Stickley cred-
its the team with solid and com-
petitive play for the most part.

“When we’ve put our pitc' -
ing and hitting together, we’ e
played pretty good,” commented
Stickley.

Stickley went on to add, “At
times, we’re playing better than
we have in a long time. Hm
pleased with the progress.”

Despite the sub-.500 record,
the team has been competitive in
almost all of their games thus far
this year. V .

As the season draws to a close,
Stickley credits this year's se-
niors for turning in a standout
performance.

“I think the seniors have ﬁe
a great job and we’re sorry to e'_
them go,” said Stickley.

 

