JAMES-G 'tJ:fY‘Eh'_10.t .rFsR.~‘\‘i'r'
V./A91 ?'~§\‘-6'§‘:‘¥,_‘.n‘\‘§ tr ».I':'.aii i_.fHi‘»’l?"£il IV’
I. ;’,'?’."f.‘B'5fV‘\;' \"-‘ M-1'?)

SH’ 3 ?§:::i‘r’i»

TH-E MHSTIC OF

L-E-E-HI EXPLOR-ED

\X/omens’ Cross Countrg

brcahs national ranking

9 CE)

he ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

4'.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY September 23, 1994

VOLUME 94, NO. 3

:W&L ranked 15 by U.S. News

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s ranking has
risen again in U.S. News & World
Report’s annual Best Colleges report.
W&L is now the 15th best liberal arts
school in the nation, according to
U.S. News.

W&L’s ranking went from number
22 in 1992 to 20 in 1993.

“This can be a very important as-
sessment for measuring quality,” said
Dean of Students David Howison.

About 1400 schools were divided

into categories. W&L, along with 163
other schools, belongs to the category
of national liberal arts colleges.

U.S. News asks the president, deans
and admissions directors of schools to
evaluate other schools in theircategory
based on academic reputation. W&L
came in at 9th place in this category.

“This is important,” said Howison.
“lt’s a reﬂection of how others see us.”

U.S. News then ﬁgures in the repu-
tation evaluations with statistics pro-
vided by the school. This year’s rank-
ing comes from statistics of last year’s
freshman class, the class of ’97.
These statistics concern student

selectivity, faculty resources, ﬁnancial
resources, graduation rate, and alumni
satisfaction. ,

Howison says the new ranking re-
ﬂects W&L’s investment of funds.

“We’re a good school,” he said.
“W&L has put its resources where, in
my judgment, are the right places: in
admissions, to get the best students,
and in support for faculty, to get the
best teachers.”

W&L came in ﬁrst place out of all
164 schools in the category of faculty
resources. This was determined by the
ratio of full-time students to full-time
faculty, the salary for faculty, and the

class size.

W&L’s score has risen in the area of
alumni giving to 54%. This is in-
creased slightly due to the Capital Cam-
paign, said Howison.

An increased retention rate has also
improved the score in the graduation
rank category, said Associate Director
of Admissions Dan Murphy.

“We’ve really made strides in the
percent of students graduating from
the university.”

The only number Howison ex-
pressed dissatisfaction with was the
ﬁnancial resources score of 54th place.
According to U.S. News, “a school’s

ﬁnancial strength was determined by
its ﬁscal 1993 expenditures for its edu-
cation program...divided by its full-
time-equivalent enrollment.”

“Here we are punished for our tu-
ition rate,” said Howison. “Relative to
other schools in our category, our tu-
ition is low.”

Neither Howison nor Murphy would
venture a guess at next year’s ranking.

“It varies from year to year,” said
Murphy. “We’re pretty ﬁrmly estab-
lished in the top 25, but as to exactly
where, I better not guess.”

“Once you get to the level we’re at,
it’s hard to separate schools,”

said Howison.

Howison did say he thinks this year’s
freshman class will raise the
ranking even more, especially the
selectivity rate.

While the class of ’97 had a 33%
acceptance rate, the class of ’98 had a
29% acceptance rate.All this praise for
the class of ’98 has some upperclass-
men doubting they could have gotten
into this year’s freshman class.

Howison disagrees.

“The quality of the students has not
changed. The quality has been good
from the moment I got here.” '

Goin’ for a ride

Photo by Betsy Green, The Rmg-tum Phi

Rush wraps up today with Rush dates Seven and Eight. Pictured above are several freshman on their way out to a fraternity
for Rush Date Five. Tear Night is this Saturday and it promises to be a crazy night. Lexington Police and W&L Security
have both planned heightened patrols. Please see story on page 1.

Professor Tim Murdoch
wins N at’l Science Award

By Nrcous RICHARD
Phi Staff Writer

selves in calculus.

“Pictures are much more meaningful than a
complicated formula,” is Washington and Lee

mathematic professor Timothy
Murdoch’s belief. This senti-
ment won him a National Sci-
ence Foundation Leadership
Award for $77,775.

Murdoch, an assistant pro-
fessor of mathematics at W&L
since the fall of 1988, discov-
ered that these grants were avail-
able from the National Science
Foundation during a trip to Los
Angeles. Upon hearing about
them, he decided to outline an
idea and then submit a written
proposal to the foundation.

His innovative proposal is to
coincide with another recent
grant the mathematics depart-

ment received last year. This grant, chaired by
John Harer (who is now a part of the Duke
University staff), allowed them to purchase
computers speciﬁcally for the mathematics

department’s use.

With this new grant, Murdoch plans to cre-
ate software that will be used by the multi-
variable calculus students in the computer lab
individually and in class lectures as a teaching
aid for second-year calculus students. It is hoped

“Students don’t have a good ability to visu-
alize things about calculus,” said Murdoch.
With these computer programs, students
will be able to investigate vector calculus con-
cepts and learn to visualize
three dimensional shapes.
According to Murdoch, an
example of how this software
will be of use to the students is
in looking at integrals that have
more than one variable. These
integrals have very complex
shapes and so are not easily
comprehended. With the new
software, the computer can
project these shapes for them.
Murdoch did not believe
that he would receive the grant
and was both surprised and
excited when it was bestowed

Murdoch on him.

“The nice thing is that we

are doing something,” he said.
The software is being developed locally,
but with the hope that other colleges across the
country will see the results and become inter-

ested.

that the software will help illustrate what stu-
dents often have problems seeing for them-

When Professor Murdoch is not teaching
class or working on his software, followed
faithfully around by his small dog, Satz (which
means “theorem” in German), or as the W&L
students affectionately call him “the math dog,”

wife, Kay.

he can be found jogging or spending quality
time with his 16-month-old son, Zach, and his

“Both family and profession are important
in my life,” Murdoch said.

The square cross-sections
pictured above are one of Prof.
Murdoch’s favorite examples of
his software in action.

Tear Night
approaches

By CINDY YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

Associate Dean of Students
Leroy “Buddy” Atkins refers to it
as the ceremony surrounding “the
ﬁrst big decision a young man
makes on his own.” Dean of
Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning likens it to
“crossing a threshold.” The broth-
ers of all fourteen recognized fra-
ternities here on campus have
been planning it for a full year
now. W&L Security is gearing
up for it. And to the men of the
Class of 1998, it is fast approach-
ing, full of anticipation and prom-
ise: Tear Night ’94.

“Tear Night” derives its name
from days past, when a name tag
with one torn comer meant the
bearer had been bid upon; two
torn comers signiﬁed an intent to
pledge.

By all accounts, the night has
now evolved into a less formal,
and in many aspects, wilder party.

Each fraternity has laid plans
for what promises to be a memo-
rable night. Most plans include a
meal at the fraternity house, rang-
ing from a formal dinner to the
dishing-out of pizza, followed by
a party for active members and
the new pledge class.

Even with well—laid plans, and
best intentions on the part of fra-
ternity brothers, not to mention
the prohibition of alcohol con-
sumption throughout this year’s
Rush, W&L administrators’ an-
ticipation of Tear Night ’94 are

still moderate.

Mindful of colorful episodes
from recent years, Mike Young,
Director of Campus Security, will
consider this Saturday night a
success “if not one person is ar-
rested, gets sick, or is injured and
has to be taken too the hospital.”
To help achieve this goal, Young
promises to “increase patrolling
and heighten [Security’s] inter-
est” in goings-ons this weekend.

Chief Bruce Beard of the Lex-
ington Police Department said
the that Lexington’s police force
“will be beefed up,” for Tear
Night. Beard also said there will
be many more Alcohol Beverage
Control officers in Lexington
over the weekend. He advised
students to “be careful and don’t
be caught with alcohol.”

Also looking to Tear Night
with heightened interest are the
freshman themselves, some with
eagerness, others with hesitation.
To Brad Simpson, the night prom-
ises a “really memorable” expe-
rience. Scott Anderson expects
to ﬁnd a “big night,” after which
another freshman expects “you
don’t remember a lot.”

Scott Bookwalter and Ken
Theus voice for many others their
expectation of “a lot of drink-
ing.” To all freshmen alike, how-
ever, the night stands as the ﬁrst
step in their initiation into Greek
life.

To the men of the Class of

’98, advice comes from many
directions. Chris Lamberson,

iv See TEAR. page 2

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World

U.S. troops watch as Haitian police attack pro-
American crowds in Port-Au-Prince

American soldiers watched as Haitian police attacked crowds of singing
demonstrators in Haiti’s capital Wednesday. The crowds gathered to sing
and cheer for U.S. troops arriving in Haiti. The U.S. so far has sent 7000
troops to Haiti to help restore exiled president Jean-Bertrand Aristide to
power. U.S. officials said U.S. troops are not there to intervene in
disruptions, except if they are a threat to civil order. Two demonstrators
were beaten to death.

Gunman kills eight in Beijing

A gunman in Beijing killed eight people Tuesday, including an Iranian
diplomat and his son. The gunman opened fire on a bus and several other
vehicles before being shot down himself and killed by police. The New
China news Agency did not report possible motives in the incident.

Volcanoes erupt in New Guinea

Nearly 30,000 residents of Papua, New Guinea ﬂed the region just
before two volcanoes erupted simultaneously. Ships picked up evacuators
ﬂeeing from the ash covered city. The volcanoes lay on opposite sides of
the harbor. Officials fear there were a small number of people still in the
city, but cannot get through because of broken communication lines.

The Nation

No more cameras in federal courtrooms

Federal judges voted Tuesday to keep cameras out of federal court-
rooms. The panel of judges at the U.S. Judicial Conference turned down a
proposal to open all courts to a project that would allow cameras at civil
trials and appeals, and banned absolutely cameras at all federal trials. The
judges banned cameras out of a concern for the impartiality of judges,
juries, and lawyers at trials.

Saturated fat increases ovarian cancer risks

Eating 10 grams of saturated fat a day may raise the risk of ovarian
cancer by 20 percent, says a study published in the Journal of the National
Cancer Institute. Scientists have long suspected that saturated fat plays a
role in ovarian cancer, but this study offers solid evidence. The study also
adds that eating just two small servings of vegetables a day could offset that
risk. In another study, scientists found that women who average four hours
of exercise a week during their childbearing years have a 60 percent lower
risk of breast cancer.

EEOC drops religious harassment

The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission withdrew its rules
regarding religious harassment in the workplace Tuesday. The regulations
were part of a comprehensive plan to eliminate harassment. The guidelines
proposed to ban all religious expression, both verbal and symbolic, in the-
workplace. EEOC officials estimate that more than 100,000 letters were
sent urging the organization to drop religion from its harassment guide-
lines.

USAir overworked plane engines

In an effort to get more use out of the engines of Flight 427, USAir ran
them on shorter ﬂights rather than giving them an overhaul, said a
maintenance source Tuesday. The FAA approved this practice in February
as part of a cost-cutting effort. All 132 people aboard Flight427 died when
it crashed September 8.

Shuttle forced to land in California

Heavy rains at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida caused space
shuttle Discovery to land at Edwards Air Force Base in California, 3000
miles from its original destination. NASA ofﬂcials were disappointed not
only because the shuttle could not land from the same place it launched

» from, but also because it will cost $1 million to shuttle the shuttle back to

Florida.

The State

Securities fraud investigation looks at Va.
pension plan

A two—year investigation into securities fraud at Virginia's retirement
agency focuses on pension fund officials appointed by then- Gov. Douglas
Wilder. Prosecutors say the pension fund broke securities laws when it did
not reveal its interests in buying R.F. & P. Corp., a real estate company. By
not disclosing their intentions, ofﬂcials were able to buy stock at lower
prices than they would have had they let known their interests.

Proposal X could cost twice projected price .

Proposal X, Governor George Allen’s plan to end parole, could cost
twice as much as previous estimates. The plan proposes the construction
of 27 new prisons by 2005, costing $1 billion. The House Appropriations
committee released a report saying that ﬁgure could range between $1.9 to
$2.2 billion. The General Assembly recessed Tuesday to hold hearings on
the matter this week.

} Beyond the Blue‘ Ridge, is     ‘ii

Baker.

Road sign
missing
at Hollins

BY JENNIFER LATHAM
Phi Staff Writer

After the Hollins College apartment
parties two weeks ago, a caution sign
was reported missing from Obenchain
Road, near the apartments.

But it was no ordinary roadsign.
Inside its yellow triangle was the im-
age of an emu and the words “emu
crossing - next seven miles.”

Tom Mesner and his wife, Jeanne
Larsen, received the sign as a gift and
will take it back with no questions
asked. Mesner said he suspects a col-
lege student stole the sign because
“(partygoers) got wild, or it was some-
thing they’d drunk.”

“It’s probably on some student's
wall,” said Mesner.

Mesner is Dean of Student Aca-
demic Affairs at Hollins, and Larsen is
chairman of the English department
there.

Mesner joked that the sign might
not have disappeared if it had warned
of the presence of a different animal.

“The emu is not a dangerous
animal...maybe next time we’ll put up
a sign with a rhinoceros on it.”

Males
tear on
Saturday

II» TEAR, from page 1

Vice-President of the Interfratemity
Council, cautions rushees that this is
the “first night of the next four years of

[their] lives;” its signiﬁcance is far
beyond any one party.

IFC member Whitney Bludworth
advises the freshman considering dif-
ferent fraternities to “take the decision
seriously.”

Dean Manning challenges the men
to explore “the wealth of differences
within the system,” to make their own
“informed, intelligent decisions about
joining [Greek life],” never “at the ex-
pense of academic work.’’

, At its best Tear Night ’94 will be
source of pride for W&L administra-
tion, a relief to security personnel, and
a meaningful experience to all those
freshman and upperclassmen involved.
This Saturday, the men of the Class of
1998 will have officially entered an-
other world at W&L, quite apart from
classrooms and homework: the world
of fraternities.

The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1&4

Going about it backwards

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring—tum Phi

 

who

A Phi Gamma Delta banner han
street) at 101 N. Randol
months by the Student
campus when the SAC revi
tentative plans for a deferred, January,
overturn of the remaining six months
co oration has outlined a 10

gs backwards (when viewed from the
Apr}; St. FIJI, which was suspended Jan. 17 for 18
airs Committee for hazing, hopes to return to
ews FIJI Jan. 1, 1995. The members are making
rush if they can successfully gain an
of their suspension. The FIJI -house
_ _ _-p_o_int. plan of action for the fraternity, which
mc udes such items as “post-initiation” pledge training program approved
by the International fraternity and susp
urchase or serve keg beer.
estab ish an academic review com
brothers whose GPAs fall below 2.

ension or expulsion of any members
The house corporation also hopes to
mittee which will counsel pledges and
. _ 5. FIJI hopes to gain the approval of the
SAC with this and the “good behavior” of the suspended FIJI brothers.

W&L adds 18 new and diverse faculty
members to the undergraduate schools

By ANNE ALVORD
Phi Staff Writer

This year W&L is welcoming eigh-
teen new undergraduate faculty mem-

 

Lesley Wheeler is joining the En-
glish faculty as an assistant professor.
She will succeed Severn Duvall, who
will retire after teaching half time this
year. Professor Wheeler graduated Phi
Beta Kappa from Rutgers University,

bers, The new then proceeded to
members of the earn her MA and
faculty represent Ph - D - fro m
a great variety of Princeton Uni-
educational and Vcrsity.
professional Matthew
backgrounds. Moran will teach
Andrew J, “lntroduction to
Holliday joins Biology” this
the Economics term while Pro-
faculty as an as- fessor Nye is on
sistantprofesson leave. He earned
He issueeeeding his BA from the
Todd Lowry, University of
who is in the Delaware, and is
phased retire- adoctoral candi-
ment program_ date in Ecology
Professo; atDelaware.
Holliday is not a Jeff K0112 Will
brand-new face be an assistant
here, as was on a professor of Eco-
visiting appoint- nomics this year.
ment at W&L He will teach
last year. He re- H°lid3y courses taughtby
ceived his BA Professors Gold-

from Michigan State, his MA from the
University of Wisconsin, and his Ph.D.
from the University of Virginia. He
also holds a JD from the Kent College
of Law at the Institute of Technology.
Professor Holliday has held short-term
faculty appointments at the University
of Virginia, Sweet Briar, and East
Carolina University. '
Edwardo A. Valasquez, a native of
Argentina, is succeeding Delos Hughes
in the Politics department. Professor
Valasquez received his BA from the
University of California at Santa Bar-
bara, and both his MA and his Ph.D.
from the University of Chicago.
Pamela Vermeer is succeeding Ted
Sjoendsma, who is serving two years
as a program officer at the National
Science Foundation before retiring
from W&L. Professor Vermeer will
serve as an assistant professorof Com-

   OI)
athematics from Calvin College, and

both her MS and Ph.D. from Perdue
University.

smith, Goldsten, and Winfrey, all of
whom are on leave. Professor Konz
earned his BA from Iowa State Univer-

 

BS from W&L and her MS from the
University of Virginia.

Assistant Professor of Religion
Daniel Perdue earned his BA, MA, and
Ph.D. from the University of Virginia.

in the Slavic Languages department at
the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst, Professor Brodsky earned her
Ph.D. from Yale, and in 1990 she re-
ceived a teaching award from Yale.

He replaces Winston Davis, who is on Kelly Simpson graduated Phi Beta
leaveforthe Fall Kappa from
and Winter W&L, and has
Terms. Profes- now returned as

sor Perdue has
held temporary

an instuctor in
the Psychology

teaching posi- Department. She
tions at UVA, will teach for
James Madison, Nancy Margand,
Amherst, and who is on leave
Virginia Poly- this year. She is
techniclnstitute. enrolledinadoc-
C l a u d i a toral program at
Andrews is on a West Virginia
one year ap- University.
pointment as an I e a n i n e
assistant profes- Stewart also
sor in the En- joins the Psy-
glish depart- chology Depart-
ment, where she ment. She will
is ﬁlling twova- be an assistant
cancies on the professor,teach-

faculty. Profes-

 

ing courses in de-

sor Andrews
also taught on a
one year ap-
pointment at W&L last in 1991-92.
She earned her BA from the University
of Virginia and her MFA in Creative

sity,hisMA Writing
from Uni- from Uni-
versity of versity of
Kentucky, N 0 r t h
and his Carolina at
Ph.D. from Greesboro.
University A n n a
of North Brodsky
Carolina at joins the
Chapel Hill. department
Morgan of German
Fuller re- and Rus-
turns to her sian as an
alma mater assistant
as an in- professor.
structor Sheisana-
with the tiveofRus-
Chemistry, sia, and
while Lisa. earned her
BAatMos-
leave this cow State
year. She University.
earned her After study

Simpson

Moran

v e 10 p m e n t al
psychology and
neuroscience.
Professor Stewart earned a BA from
Holy Cross and an MA and Ph.D. from
University of Virginia. She also held a
National Institute of Mental Health
Post—Doctoral Fellowship at UVA for
the past two years.

Assistant Professor Winnifred
Sullivan will teach two courses each
year in the Religion Department. She
earned her BA from Cornell, and her
JD and Ph.D. from the University of
Chicago.

Douglas Szajda graduated Phi Beta
Kappa from Laffeyette College. He
earned a MS and Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He served one year
with W&L in 1992-93, and taught at
St. Olaf in 1993-94.

Agnes Carbrey served a one year
appointment at W&L in 1992-93. Now
she has returned as an assistant profes-
sor in the Art department, where she is
teaching studio drawing this term. She
earned her MFA from the Parsons

in See STAFF, page 5

‘w

 

‘\

P

 

- ' 4

 

By MA'i'r O'BRIEN
Phi Staff Writer

Amid all of the furor and excitement of Rush, there was
a refreshing change of pace this past Wednesday when the
ﬁrst “Acoustical Coffeehouse” was held in the GHQ. It is
just one of the many new ideas that the SAB and the “Dean
of Fun,” Michelle Richardson, have in mind for W&L’s
social calendar.

Similar to the popular MTV series “Unplugged,” it
allows striving artists to showcasetheirtalents in an intimate
atmosphere.

Complete with an assortment of desserts, cappuccino
and coffee, students packed in to hear W&L juniors Brian
Boland and Tommy Esposito perform. The smoky, Seattle-
esque atmosphere provided the perfect environment for
their style of music. With Brian Boland on guitar and
Tommy Esposito singing, they played an assortment of
cover songs. With selections ranging from blues and early
U2 to some classic rock, and the token Pearl Jam melody,
there was something for everyone.

The duo also played some original songs which were

‘T/I/éuli

“Acoustical Coffeehouse” s owcases talent

upbeat and well liked by the
crowd.

‘‘I try to keep a real posi-
tive attitude with the music I
write,” said Ikposito. ‘‘I
think a lot of the music today
is so negative and (have) so
much anger and hate com-
ing out. I take Pearl Jam and
Nirvana as prime examples.

I mean, why are they
so angry?”
The pair met last year dur-

ing spring term on the steps
of the Parkview apartments
and have been playing to-'
gether ever since. And they
are by no means strangers to
this eclectic, Seattle-coffee-
house type of perfonnance.
Although this was their ﬁrst
time performing for W&L,
they have played many times
at Harbs and the Raven and

 

Brian Boland and Tommy E}
at "Acoustic Coffeehouse."

hoto by_ Besty Green
sposito Jam

 
   

Crown, receiving rave
reviews.However, it is not al-
ways easy for them to ﬁnd the
time to practice together.

With Boland majoring in
philosophy and classics and
Esposito in history, it is often
difﬁcult to set time aside for
music. “W&L is the kind of
place, as a singer and guitarist,
that I wish I went to a school
that was less demanding aca-
demically. lt’s hard to get the
practice time. But if you really
want it, you’ll ﬁnd the time,”
said Esposito.

Besides serving as a show-
case for new talent, the coffee-
house also gave an opportunity
for many students to meet with-
out being under the auspices of
fraternities or sororities. As
Esposito said, “I would hope
that it would become a sort of

 

PAGE 3

thing where it would bring together guys and girls that aren’t
normally hanging out, because they are always hanging out
at their fraternity or sorority. I’d hate to see that type of
clique attitude.” This is not the last you will see of these type
of shows.

Because of the positive response, Dean Richardson has
already scheduled additional coffeehouse performances for
October 7 and October 28. The ﬁrst will feature a singer
from Maine, tom Acousti, who was a competitor on the
television show Star Search.

The performance on the 28th will feature a group named
Settie, comprised of a female singer and two male guitarists
who sing cover songs by Melissa Etheridge, REM, Indigo
Girls and 10,000 Maniacs, among others. The acoustical
show is just one of the many new ideas which the SAB and
Dean Richardson are working on. One idea being consid-
ered is a day trip to Washington, D.C. this coming Novem-
ber, where students can see plays, visit museums and enjoy
what the city has to offer.

What is certain is that with the arrival of Dean Richardson
and the new plans from the SAB, this year’s social calendar
promises to be one of the busiest ever. If this week’s show
was any indication, these events will be a ﬁne complement

photo by Besty Green

@ie of last year's dorm rooms boasted an affinity for the new “grass” roots movement.

A RESU RQEN (E ill YO?‘ (U LPURE

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Features Editor

Lexington is not exactly a center of
the drug culture that has been sweeping
America for the last few decades. Some
things are apparently easy enough to
get, though, especially marijuana.

To most students, it’s hemp, grass,
pot, Mary Jane, or a variety of less
well- known terms. Along with its
various titles, the marijuana culture
has developed its own slang. The lingo
includes words like “cashed” (used-
up, no longer potent), “roach” (stub
from a joint), “hits” (inhalations) and a
variety of words to describe a user’s
condition after partaking in marijuana:
toasted, high, smoked out and popeyed.

Until recently, marijuana was syn-
onymous with the Sixties generation,
but a new “grass” roots movement is
being fueled in large part by pop cul-
ture — fashion, music and ﬁlm.

The funky grunge look was inspired
by early Seventies fashions and in part
by the cannabis leaf. The seven-point
symbol can be seen adorning every-
thing from earrings to T-shirts, belt

les and caps. Boutiques in L.A. and
New York are selling a line of clothing
called Weed Wear. There’s even the
Hemporium in San Francisco, which
sells hemp sportswear and related items
(all legal, of course).
Musical acts from proto-rappers
Cypress Hill to Southern hard-rockers
The Black Crowes are singing about
hemp. In a Time magazine article, B-
Real of Cypress Hill, who confesses to
smoking pot every day, said “We’re
the newest to hit with it. We’re revital-
izing the pot movement.” And the
Black Crowes, whose lead singer Chris
Robinson once posed for the cover of
High Times magazine smoking a joint,
perform under a 48-ft. by 24 ft. banner
emblazoned with a marijuana leaf.

In film, 31-year-old ﬁlmmaker Ri-
chard Linklater, in honor of pot culture
classics like Blow Up and Easy Rider,
directed Dazed and Confused. The
film, fast becoming a kind of cult clas-
sic, follows a group of students through
heir last day of high school in the year
1976. Linklater said in a recent High
Times interview, “Pot is coming back
in a real big way, and if you’re going to
make an honest teen movie, you’re
going to see beer drinking and
pot smoking.”

For W&L students, exposure to the

pot culture has not been limited to the
fashions and ﬁlms of the day. Many
parties are hosts to “clam-bakes” and
“smoke—ups.” Bonﬁrcs burn more than
wood, and bowls hold more than ce-
real. The apparatus of the habit are
complex, ranging from the classic corn
cob pipe to the extraordinarily large
Gremlin-shaped creations named such
things as “Billy.”

While the possession, sale of and
use of marijuana is illegal, many stu-
dents do not consider it to be any more
dangerous than the alcohol so readily
available to them.

“It’s not addictive and it doesn’t
leave me with a hangover,” said
one student.

Many students said they use mari-
juana to relax. “Your eyes get a little
red, like you’ve been crying. That’s
all,” said another student.

The availability of marijuana is
complemented by a historical passive
acceptance of its use. In fact, hemp
was grown by many prosperous colo-
nial planters, including
George Washington.

Betsy Ross sewed the ﬁrst Stars and
Stripes out of hempen cloth and the
ﬁrst several drafts of the Declaration of
Independence were penned on hemp

paper.

Nathan McCall: Testimony of an ex-felon

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Staff Writer

In the midst of the debate over Vir-
ginia Governor Allen’s plan to abolish
parole, Nathan McCall offers a trium-
phant testimony of a ex-felon who went
from serving three years in prison to
becoming a staff reporter for the Wash-
ington Post. McCall ’s book, MakesM e
Wanna Holler.‘ A Young Black Male in

America, traces his life in Cavalier
Manor, a black working-class neigh-
borhood in Norfolk, Virginia.

The story begins in the 1960’s in the
background of the Civil Rights Move-
ment. Everybody wanted a rep and
would do anything to get one. McCall
even ﬁghts his best friend, Shane, to
prove to himself and others just how
crazy he is. McCall hopes that his
mother would stop the ﬁght but knew
he would have to ﬁght if she didn’t.
Luckily, she told them to quit ﬁghting.
“I was so relieved I could have kissed
her on the spot. But there was an audi-
ence out there. I had an image to
project and a role to play. So I acted
disappointed, like I was pissed off that
my mother kept me from tearing off
that nigger’s head.”

“They’ll kill a nigger for dissin’
them. Won’t touch a white person, but
they’ll kill a brother in a heartbeat over

a perceived slight. The irony was that
white folks constantly disrespected us
in ways seen and unseen, and we toler-
ated it....It was as if black folks were
saying, ‘I can ’t do much to keep whites
from dissin’ me, but I damn sure can
keep black folks from doing it.”

This need for respect leads to more
dangerous and disturbing escapades,
including training girls. A train was
essentially a gang rape. A guy would
force a girl to have sex with a number
of guys. As disgusting as this is, McCall
feels compelled to participate so as not
to be singled out as a punk. In a per-
verted sense, a particular train on a girl
named Vanessa marks a turning point;
it creates a bond between McCall and
his friends. It was a macho thing to use
“a member of the most vulnerable
groups of human beings on the face of
the earth—black females.” I ﬁnd this
same type of mentality in some male
rappers’ incessant use of the word,
bitch, to describe women. A train rep-
resented power over women. McCall
soon ﬁnds the same power in some-
thing else: a gun.

Superﬂy, the 1972 movie, glamor-
ized life of drug dealing. To McCall, it
symbolized the essence of cool. Power,
reputation, coolness——all of these things
led McCall to riskier crimes such as
breaking and entering, drug dealing,
mugging, and attempted murder. Fi-
nally, McCall was caught robbing a
McDonalds restaurant and served

three years.

When he gets into prison, he begins
to turn his life around. .He befriends
mentors who teach him about life, his-
tory, philosophy. He vows to make
something out of himself. Just like
Malcolm X, he reads voraciously and
upon his release from prison, he enrolls
at Norfolk State University. Majoring
in journalism, he graduates with hon-
ors and precedes to ﬁnd work.

When he enters the “white estab-
lishment”, he experiences culture
shock. He ﬁnds himself feeling like an
outsider who is under greater scrutiny
than his white counterparts. He must
contend with his co-workers miscon-
ceptions or simple ignorance of black
culture.

McCall has written a truly inspira-
tional and oftentimes biting book. His
honesty makes the story compelling
and persuasive.

He writes as if he is drinking a cup
of coffee and engaging you in conver-
sation. You get to know him, some-
times too well. At points you might not
approve of his actions, but you could
appreciate his experience. He has an
original voice, one mixed with self-
righteous anger and humor. He offers
an challenging and brutal perspective
on black male-female relationship,
crime, race, and the competitive world
of journalism. It moves one from laugh-
ter to anger to sadness. One thing is
sure: it made me wanna holler.

to W&L’s vast array of activities.

Late night at Lee—Hi

By SASHA HARTMAN AND LINDSAY

WILLS
Phi Staff Writers

Lee-Hi truck stop, one of
Rockbridge County ’s ﬁnest dining es-
tablishments, offers more than just food
to its customers. Located off Route 1 1,
Lee-Hi provideswashingfacilities, fuel
and entertainment.

For those travelers who are also
avid shoppers, it provides a wide as-
sortment of clothes, decaled cups and
classes and the ever important gear
shift cozies. For W&L students and
Lexington residents, it serves as a late
night hangout on weekends.

Although W&L students typically
do not frequent the establishment dur-
ing the week, but rather on Saturday
nights, one waitress said that “there

;till are noticeable regulars.” When

asked whether the students were gen-
erally well behaved or not, she insisted
that the majority of the students were
“passive and caused no problems.”
However, she went on to mention that
there are exceptions when the students
had “partied too much.”

In addition to W&L students, many
truck drives frequent Lee-Hi. The
waitress reported that the truckers en-
joy the mixed company of the students
but are hindered by their presence when
they were in a hurry and needed fast
service.

In order to facilitate all of its cus-
tomers, Lee-Hi has had to expand in
size over the years. Originally, the fuel
desk was located where the juke box
now stands. There was no store and the
dining area was contained in the front
seating area.

With such a large variety of meals
to choose from it is hard to know what
to order. Popular favorites include the

He-Man special, scrambled eggs, grits

with cheese and hotcakes. Often the
food is eaten with such haste—scarfed
— that it is hard to discern what the
students actually ordered without ex-
amining the bills. Are these cases of
the munchies?

Besides delicious food, friendly ser-
vice and “unique” merchandise, Lee-
Hi offers the sheltered W&L student
fascinating encounters with those not
typically found at fraternity parties.
Although many ﬁnd entertainment in
the pinball and video machine games,
the juke box offers plenty of enjoy-
ment, with a “wide” selection of music
ranging from Johnnie Cash to Willie
Nelson.

A trip to Lee-Hi is a mutually re-
warding experience. Not only do W&L
students take pleasure in observing the
regulars at Lee-Hi, the regulars at Lee-
Hi are also equally entertained but the
duckheaded, ﬂanneled student. To have
fully participated in the W&L experi-
ence, late night at Lee-Hi is a must!

By KIRK SUSONG
Phi Movie Reviewer

Atrocious acting plagues T imecop

Typical Van Damme races through empty action ﬂick

Stallone.

Timecop - ‘A’ 1/2

everybody.

IO tears. . .

of violence and a little sex.

as it sounds.

Several years into the
future, a clever scientist
discovers a method of
time travel.

Unfortunately, when
one goes back in time, it is
possible to change what
will be the future, eg, go
back and stop the bomb-
ing of Pearl Harbor,
thereby preventing U.S.
entry into World War 11.

So, the Time Enforce-
ment Commission is
formed (this creation of
yet another sprawling fed-
eral bureaucracy is deﬁ-
nitely the most realistic
part of the film), and in-
trepid “timecops” are sent
through the corridors of
history preventing ren-
egade time travelers from
setting anything askew.

This ability to change
the future at anytime by
returning to the past,

a near impossibility.

ITIOVC.

didn’t occur.

 

J ean-Claude Van Damme is back, but this time he has
gone out on a real limb making a movie that will surprise

He plays a sensitive policeman who goes back in time
to right the wrongs of the world, saving children and
bringing even the harshest criminals both to justice and

Hal As if! No, I’m afraid that in truth Van Damme has
simply made another rather empty action ﬂick with lots

The premise of Timecop is actually not as

though it is the premise of the ﬁlm, makes the plot
extremely confusing and makes suspension of disbelief

The characters, both good and bad, jaunt around the
boulevards of temporality, changing things with every

The audience can never ﬁgure out when or why
characters appear, or why they didn’t appear.‘the ‘ﬁrst
time’ this happened, or how it was that something did or

Basically the premise of the movie is simply too
unworkable, especially when one is telling a story of
such a linear quality in the cinema.

Discounting the inhospitable plot and examining just

pissed off."

He just looks like a confused foreigner struggling with
English most of the time.

The words come out of his mouth, but his face
displays a real lack of understanding; judging from his
expression, it would be impossible to decide if he had just
said “Freeze, scum!” instead of, say, “I love animals!”

Apparently at work in this ﬁlm is some sort of law of
thespian osmosis, because all the transparency of Van
Damme is magically transferred to his co-stars, both Ron
Silver (the evil senator) and Mia Sara (Van Damme’s

wife, Melissa).
simple

the characters leaves no better impression.
Van Damme says he would like to make the break-
through to a wider variety of ﬁlms, like ‘Ah-nuld’ or

That will simply never happen if he continues with
wooden performances like in Timecop.
Not only is Van Damme incapable of being sensitive,
but he even had a hard time being severe or threatening.
Despite the characters he plays, he still hasn’t ﬁgured
out how to do "steely resolve" or even simple "hard-nosed

The confused police chief Matuzak, played by Bruce

deserved some recognition.

He has done nothing particularly amazing, but he does
keep the ﬁlm moving; the plotting is rarely overly hasty
(a temptation in action ﬁlms, as in the second Rambo ﬁlm
or perhaps the original Predator).

Hyams is wise enough to let Van Damme’s incredible
maneuvers take precedent over anything else in the ﬁlm.

What it boils down to is that this is not a particularly
good ﬁlm: the acting is atrocious, the special effects grow ,
tiresome, and the plot is awfully mixed up.

But it might be worth a video rental if you are looking
for a simple Friday-night beer-drinking ﬂick with tre-
mendous athletic presentation.

And, that is, you have already seen The Crow.

McGill, actually isn’t too
bad, but he isn’t given
enough time on screen for
that to help the ﬁlm any.

But beyond the lame
acting, Van Damme still
does the best action shots
in the business.

He has mastered the
art of the dramatic action
kick, and some of his
gymnasticstunts are sim-
ply astounding (such as
the incredible splits he
manages).

The action scenes are
beautifully choreo-
graphed and executed
with incredible precision.

They become the
ﬁlm’s redeeming grace,
as it is, after all, meant to
be an action ﬁlm.

Undoubtedly most of
the credit for the action
scenes should go to Van
Damme; nevertheless, the
director, Peter Hyams,

10------ - . . . .. -_. . - . ... ._. . ..._-- - ...- --,e -,- .....-- .. . . ..... .._..-.._..-..--.. ..-- -.... -1~4'p—\¢v.-um ........-......i._. -.-.-.... .........-.-.-.-._.....--... ..--_-......- --....------------- —-—-—-_ --. --a--._..... ..-..... - - .-..-.. -.-...-..,.-._.-..,._.,-.-.- 9.-.-.

 

 

 

NON %l:l

UIIUII BY

   
      
   

 

 
 
 

        
  

 

---------------------1
I
I 4
. E
' $
I
I
I
I

---------------------I

'1‘ - SHIRTS CAPS
Z,scIu:EN PRINTING Z
Have a Wiz of a year
SWEATS With JACKETS
A 8 S
SCREEN PRINTING.
Rockbridge Baths , VA.
348-5114

arm was-\mbToI4 B91 w<2\'ts\1$ 
9-Z;

___gecI>osc we euetsrek
mm oereuome mew?
N com. ‘T\\l\T'$ \N\\‘(

can wvom-ton war umaze~azw<>\\/IE‘:-V

\ Iuoucm . E
N\I\‘(BE Now ‘(owe $1
gov Izusuxm, N\E, t
Lgsremxyr No-0-o.., 5
I

1;

5

I

E

‘I z+\\/ll?

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1994

F\N\ER\CkN ”
\’?\\OR\‘I\Eér-«

‘=9 g %

’ I\N‘iT\l\N(> P\B°UT
we 0.5. £\N\?é<>N

    

BASIC BU SINESS FORMULA;

_ SPENDING Tm; Rag ,
— OF YOUR LIFE IN
UNCOMFORTRBLE
CLOTHES

 
     
 
 
     
    

 ARENT YOU
é°\N€= To TELL
N\\'= now ‘(OUR
CONTRIXCT
NE(>°'I\I\T\0Né.

       

.\ _\

1 medium 14" CHEESE & 2 TOPPING PIZZA

$6.49
WITH THIS COUPON

2 Medium 14" CHEESE & 2 TOPPING PIZZAS
$11.99
WITH THIS COUPON

30 Minute Delivery
10 Minute Pick-Up

FRANK’S PIZZA
463-7575

Hot & Cold Subs - Salads - Dinners - Beverages

Please mention this ad when calling in an order

(8 slices)

  

my EIIIH-IIIIII ﬂﬁlllgi,
97 years old
andvwastill
come once a
week.

NIGHT OWL MUSIC CO.

Midnight sagg

and

Pan: Hnﬁhzms
Midnight until 2

jl

a.m.

eagle; wages sage

* ‘I:
‘k'*
t ‘A’
ﬁr ‘k

(Regular Price $12

.95)

Monday Night (Tues. a.m.)

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050

Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.

 
 
    

Fall Mountain Bike Specials

Diamond Back Ascent: ‘94 list price $579
full STX group,

Cannondale M300 : ‘94 list price $479

   
   
     
   

  

aluminum handbuilt frame : Save $80 now $399  
Trek 850 : double butted chromemoly frame, . picgtga
front suspension, ‘94 list price $629, ' 450390“ 3'93 I 73°”

  

save $130; now $499

Hours Mon - Fri 9 -5 sat 9 - Noon
OFFER Goon ON IN STOCK BIKES

WHILE SUPPLY LASTS %  — 

}~k~k******~k~k*~k*~k*~k~k***~k*~k~k***~k*

Springcest Fer Nvssas
Greek 12«esi.alev\ts

COOKOUT. VOLL-EHBALL & GOOD
TI/V\-ES ON Tl-IURSDAH. SEPT. 29 AT

SP./V\.
IN THE D-ELL BEHIND

THE LIBRARH.
Rain location: The 

¢*****‘k******k******‘k**'k*****

‘V-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥-4441-¥¥¥¥

  
       
 
  

‘K ¥¥-4444‘¥¥¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

Z,»

 

  

 

 

ACLU
budget
rejected

II» See ACLU, page 5

paper, asked for funding from the EC.
The policy was formally approved last
year and again this year.

Webb said the policy prevents the
EC from favoring one group over an-
other. It made sense to keep the EC as
neutral as possible.

Schneider said he sees the EC as
being quite political as well. He said
the EC president announced his sup-
port for the death penalty before Am-
nesty International presented its bud-
get last year. Amnesty lntemational
was denied funding last year because
the EC deemed them ideologically par-
tisan.

Webb said he does not recall stating
his opinion on the death penalty before
Amnesty International presented their
budget.

“If you look at theirbudget, pushing
a certain ideology is their main pur-
pose,” he said. “I support their actions.
However, I think the organization falls
into organizations we do not fund.”

Webb said the parody was not of-
fensive.

“We took it in the humor it was
intended,” he said.

The Ring-tum Phl, September 23, 1994

New professors bring
rich experiences to W&L

II» FACULTY, from page 1

School of Design.

Marcia France graduated Phi Beta
Kappa from the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology, where she

earned her
BS. Shecon-
tinuedtoeam
an MA from
Yale, and a
Ph.D. from
the Califor-
nia Institute
of Technol-
ogy.

At Cal
Tech, she re-
ceived a
teaching
award for a
special new
help course
in organic
chemistry.
Professor
France has

now joined W&L’s Chemistry De-
partment.

Allen Johnson has a BA from
LaSalle University and is a doctoral
candidate at the University of Penn-
sylvania. Previous to his doctoral
work, Professor Johnson taught pub-

lic school in Philadelphia and Mary-
land. As a member of the English
Faculty, he is W&L’s Minority ABD
Fellow this year.
Roger Mudd graduated from
W&L in 1950.
He will teach a course in the Spring
term for the

 

 

Valasquez

Journalism
D e p a r t -
ment.
Profes-
sor Mudd
has worked
in Broad-
cast Jour-
nalismwith
CBS and
MacNeil/
Lehrer, and
was Distin-
g u is h e d
V i s i t i n g
F a c u l t y
Fellow at
Princeton
for the last
two years.

 

VMI appeal
still in progress

By COURTNEY MILLER
Phi Staff Writer

For decades, Virginia Military In-
stitute has trained young men to ﬁght,
lead and win on the battleﬁeld as well
as off.

Ironically, since 1990 VMI has been
engaged in a war of its own. One not of
guns and bullets, but of words and
interpretations.

The fourteenth amendment of the
United States Constitution guarantees
equal education regardless of race, color
or sex. In 1990 the Justice Department
sued VMI for violation of the Constitu-
tion on behalf of an unnamed
Virginia woman.

VMI faces the opposition on Sept.
28 and begin what many hope will be
the last battle of a war that has gone on
far too long. Oral arguments for both
sides will be heard by the Fourth Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals.

Mike Strickler, Public Relations
Director for VMI explained
the situation.

“Each side is limited to 30 minutes
of oral appeal to the judge. Each side
will have an opportunity to present

  COME AND JOIN oue
  DHSFUNCTIONAL FA/V\IL_‘!. wane
FOR r+-/5 RIN6- TUM PHI.

/‘4-E-E TIN65 AR-E HELD ON TU£5D/4.95 AT 7P./‘*1.
IN R00/VIZOBOF TI-/-E UNI VERSITH CENTER I

arguments and defend their stance,”
Stricklersaid. “Although there is no set
date for a ﬁnal decision, we have asked
for expedition in this case so that plans
for the Mary Baldwin program can go
forth [unhindered].”

In May of 1994, VMI was given
three options when they appealed a
decision to admit women to VMI, one
of which was to establish a similar
program for women. VMI has been
working to open just such a program at
all the female Mary Baldwin College.

Colonel Michael Bissell, former
Commandante of Cadets, will act as a
liaison between the two colleges, coor-
dinating the ROTC program, and an-
swering questions that will arise, ac-
cording to Strickler.

The leadership program is currently
slated to open in the fall of 1995-96.
The legality of such a program is still
in question.

According to Ellen J. Vargyas, se-
nior counsel for the National Women’s
Law center, providing a “separate
but equal” program for women
is impossible. The value of a school
such as VMI lies not in the program
itself, but the history, prestige, alumni
and endowments of the institution.

For once, a cut in

educational

actually helps students.

  

Madnlarb‘ Performa' 636 3/250
with C7)—ROM Apple‘ ColorPlu.r 14' ' lay,
AppleDe.s1'gn‘lQfyboardandmot¢se. Only 1,624.00.
With Apple’s special low student pricing, you can get a terriﬁc deal on Macintosh“:
the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford-
able Macintosh Performaf which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help

get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple” PowerBook‘’ or the Power

 

Apple’ PowerBook' I50 4/120. Only £1,201.00.

discover the power all college students need. The power to be your best?

  

*Price does not include sales tax

    

PowerMaa'nIbsb' 7100/66 8/250

will: 00-12001 Apple’ Muaxplescan 15 Display, 9‘ '
AppIeDesign' Keyboard andmouse. only $2,480.00.

Macintosh"— the world’s fastest Maci“ And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com-
puter, you won’t have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac

is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to Ap 1 ’
p e I

For further information Visit University Computing in
Tucker Hall and ask for Ruth Floyd or ca-.. 463-8847

©1994,4pp(e a,,,,p,,1er /,,c_ A11 1-{guy merged Apple IbeApple Iago, Macinlosb, Macmlarb Quadra, Pedbrma, Powerliook and ‘m power to be your law!" are registered buderrmrbs of Apple Compuler, Inc. AppIeDesign, Mac and Power Maciniarb are trademark: of Apple Computer, Inc.

spending that

 

 

  

PAGE 6

(“Litre iking-tum lﬁlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
-Founded September 18, 1897

Self—cong'ratulation is in order

Washington and Lee jumped up the US News & World
Report ratings this week as the elite university world watched
with bated breath, proving what we have hoped: W&L gives
one of the country’s finest educations and is improving every
year.

In what is arguably the most important category from a
purely educational standpoint, that of faculty resources, W&L
was an unprecedented number one. This and academic repu-
tation may be the best indicators of pure educational ability.

Though we rank only 24th in academic reputation (mea-
sured by compiling the opinions of the administrators of
colleges throughout the country), a number one in faculty
resources seems to clinch a place in the very upper echelon of
the higher education world.

Part of the reason that we still fall behind schools in the top
10 is that our tuition is so comparatively low, and that is a part
of the ratio used to determine financial resources per student.
Another statistic that hurts us is the graduation rate; the
number is determined as an average of the freshmen enrolled
from 1984 to 1987 who graduated within six years.

Because W&L’s selectivity and student characteristics
began improving after coeducation in 1986, this area does not
accurately reﬂect the current student retention rate (though
admittedly, it would be difficult to obtain any more update
statistics due to the nature of the six-year qualification).

So, W&L, feel secure that you are really much cooler than
they make you out to be —- and we just jumped an amazing ﬁve
places on the ratings scale. We would bet that this is only the
beginning....the question is, how can we break into the ranks
of Amherst and Williams? What does it take?

Hopefully, the question will be answered soon. It may seem
like we are concentrating too much on surface characteristics,
but this is really one of the most important aspects of any
school, because the school’s name recognition in the eyes of
potential employers can be the difference between a good job
and a great job, and that is the bottom line.

Thanks, Molly

It is almost time for the traditional “Why don’t the under-
classmen keep up the speaking tradition” debate, but I would
like to provide a new twist.
Early this week, I boarded the elevator on the fourth ﬂoor.
A freshman boarded on the third ﬂoor and, immediately
throwing me off guard, looked at me.
I know it is tradition, even at this great “speaking tradition
of Robert E. Lee” school, to keep to oneself in elevators unless
the other riders are intimate acquaintances.
But this freshmen gave me a friendly “Hello” and intro-
;duced herself.

This was so surprising that I think I scared her a little when
I affirmed her comment that the only people who go around

introducing themselves were freshmen.

, But, Molly, I would like to let you know that you opened my
_:'eyes to the hypocrisy of people who argue about freshmen
fignoring tradition but never would have introduced them-
§selves to you had they met you in the elevator.

Thank you, Molly. You were a breath of fresh air and a ﬁne

lexample of a sincere continuance of tradition.

Quote of the Week: q
“Uhh...Where’s the Phi Gamm house?”

-74 freshman man doubly misplaced during
fraternity rush

@112 iatng-tum ilﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Alvord

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Flickinger

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MaIcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but TheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

II

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
, Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

n_)nuIL11Ill‘l

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1994

  

     
 

7. ~ 0 '4‘ -“4.'¢»'4 5;!

‘.“Z‘>I‘-f"Z‘C—

 

  

How to build the better kitchen

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

There comes a time in every
student’s life when he or she must defy
Dean Manning and move out of uni-
versity-owned housing. I decided to
“make the break” this year and get an

. apartment in town with Phi Movie

Reviewer Kirk Susong.

I found out that getting an apart-
ment entails obtaining furnishings and
essentials to ﬁllother rooms you haven’t
been used to having, like a living room
and an area I’ve been told is called a
“kitchen,” which is used for some sort
of voodoo practice called “cooking.”
This “kitchen” looked like it would
require many items, an opportunity for
me to see how resourceful (and tacky)
I could be. Luckily, I was ready for the
challenge; in my ﬁrst two years of
college I had gotten lots of practice
with a technique I call “mining.”

Mining begins freshman year with
your high school yearbook. It sits
among stuff that is unused at your
house and you ﬁgure you could prob-
ably beneﬁt from having something to
read when you’re bored (besides your
Chemistry textbook), so you “mine” it
and bring it up to Lexington. The next
stage is when you go home for Thanks-
giving and you decide you simply must
bring up some of your old tapes (in-
cludingNationalAnthems of the World
and Chaka Khan’s I Feel For You).

Well then, Christmas rolls around
and you ﬁgure you had better bring
some old T-shirts up so you can “layer
up” and beat the winter cold. February
break comes and you have to “mine”
all of your Dad’s ski equipment and
pretty soon you have brought up your
entire collection of 1984 NFL trading
cards, your collection of Transformers
(Autobots and Decepticons), and an
anthology of your elementary school
love notes to Jennifer Lier.

Getting back
to my original

dollar. Actually, everything in the store
is $1.06 with sales tax, so perhaps a
more accurate name would be Dollar

Tree Surrounded By Six Saplings.
With my brother Elwood I entered
the store wearing dark sunglasses,
greeted the cashier, and told her I was
on a mission from God. Then I asked
her what the most popular item in Dol-
lar Tree was, and she pointed to the
racks of angel and animal ﬁgurines at
the front of the store. These will make
neat stirrers for
my kitchen, I said

topic (scan up ‘ C to myself.

about three para- W a l k i n g
graphs if YOU f0f- . . through the aisles
got),  needed Actually; e.VeI'ythmg.m I was amazed at
manﬁtltﬁms ‘Ear Dollar Tree is $1.06 with th<=tIanIgef0fPr:d-
my 1 c en rs uc s. oun a
yeanlwasableto sales tax! Soperhaps a SprayMaster,
mine fr several more accurate name which is a plastic
things om home deviceshaped like
Svith )Mopr(’js d€d0lB€;rS1i‘;ee a gun inwhich yoq

essmg .rnc u - insert an aeroso

ing the family col- Saplings. can. You can then
lectron of Sea   spraythecontents
World mugs and by pulling the
some silverware SprayMastertrig-

stored in an old

Crown Royal box. But this was simply
not enough; thus, I embarked on the
ﬁrst stop of the fall leg of the Dream
Land World Tour.

I arrived at Dollar Tree (next to
Wal-Mart) one afternoon ready for
bargains. Before I go on I should prob-
ably explain the premise behind Dollar
Tree: everything in the store costs one

LETTERS

ger, which could
be incredibly handy if one of your
dinner guests wanted some more spray
cheese and he or she was across the
room from you.

The back wall of Dollar Tree was a
virtual treasure trove. Sequins and
rhinestones were sold by the roll, and
after reading a few chapters inStitch by
Stitch.‘ A Home Library of Sewing,

Knitting, Crochet, and Needlecraft
(which is, coincidentally, also avail-
able at Dollar Tree), we could have
some really ﬂashy pot holders and
dishtowels, huh? Not to mention rhine-
stones could add a nifty “crunch” to
homemade casseroles and desserts.

Food was deﬁnitely a good buy at
Dollar Tree. There was a good selec-
tion of Basted Snackin’ Bones, which
according to the package were 100%
ALL BEEF, natural rawhide, doggie
tested and approved, and Made in Bra-
zil. Basted Snackin’ Bones come
shaped (and colored!) like doughnuts,
cheeseburgers, poached eggs, drum-
sticks, and lollipops.

However, you shouldn’t feel com-
pelled to tell your guests that the dinner
of Basted Snackin’ Bones you served
them was intended for consumption by
dogs. If they get suspicious, just say,
“Hey, man, get serious—would people
really waste perfectly good beef-ﬂa-
vored lollipops on their dogs?”

This would probably be a good time
to mention that Dollar Tree also sells
surgical masks for one ’s guests to wear
should Betsy Green drop by unexpect-
edly around dinnertime. You just don’t
know where she’s been.

I left Dollar Tree with several bags
that day. Although I still don’t have
everything I need for a kitchen (a re-
cent quote from a friend: “What do you
mean, you don’t have any salt or pep-
per?”), I feel I’ve got a good start. I’ve
become part of the tree of life here in
Lexington: the Dollar Tree.

Toles contests Phi EC, SBA coverage

To the editor:

I am writing in regard to Sarah Gilbert’s article
concerning the EC Budget deliberations. I was ap-
palled to see the way in which my quote was taken out
of context. Having been a journalism major at Wash-
ington and Lee, I learned the importance of joumalis-
tic integrity and honesty. Obviously this has not been
a part of Ms. Gilbert’s W&L curriculum.

What upsets me the most about Ms. Gilbert’s
article is not the falsehood with which the SAB and

Gilbert’s article leaves the W&L community with the
impression that a confrontational debate occurred
between the SBA and the EC. This was not the case.

As a member of the EC that was elected by the law
and undergraduate students of W&L, my goal has
been to try to bridge the gap between both sides. This
is what the members of the EC as well as the SBA are
striving for this year. It is unfortunate that when so
many people are working so hard to achieve a com-
mon goal, one person can try to spoil it for a lead story.

KA are left, but the division it attempts to create. The
members of the EC and the Student Bar Association

worked hard to understand the opinions of one an-
other during budget deliberations. In the end both
sides were happy with what they accomplished. Ms.

Sincerely,
William M. Toles ‘95L

  Fulbright

Seniors interested in applying
for Fulbright Fellowships for 1995-
96 should contact Professor Herrick
immediately in his ofﬁce in the
Commerce School, Room 212, to
learn about procedures and sched-
uling. The fellowships pay for a
year of study abroad.

Bicycle

If you lost a Schwinn bicycle
recently or if you suspect it was
stolen, please call the Lexington
Police at 463-2112 to identify.

Rhodes

Seniors interested in Rhodes
scholarships should contact Pro-
fessor Evans immediately.

Outing Club

There will be a Outing Club
meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 29 at
7 p.m. at the Outing Club house.
Everyone is welcome.

Editor’s Note: I regret that William Toles took
his comment as seriously as he did. I meant it to
reﬂect the friendly repartee among the Executive
Committee members during their long hours of
deliberations, thinking that no one could possibly
take the comment as a serious slam

I would like to add, however, that the discussion
about the SBA was confrontational at times, and I
presented the situation exactly as it took place. It
was reported similarly in other campus publica-

tions. There is no bigger supporter of law school-
undergraduate relations than me, and I would
suggest that Toles speak with his peers ifhe does not
recognize this.

Secretary, Executive Committee

GENERAL

NOTES

Democrats

The College Democrats will hold
their ﬁrst meeting on Sunday, Sept. 25
at 7 p.m. in the game room of the
University Center. All are welcome.
Questions? Call Nova at 462-4087.

RACASA

The Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault is seeking vol-
unteers to provide direct victim ser-
vices and community education pro-
grams. For more infonnation please
call 463-RAPE.

EC

Applications for EC appointments
are now outside Carol Calkins ofﬁce.
Interviews are Sept. 28.

Robb

College Democrats will hold a re-
ception for Catherine Robb, Senator
Robb’s daughter, Wednesday, Sept. 28
at 7 p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge.

 

FD

Applications for the Fancy Dress
Steering Committee are now in front of
Carol Calkins’ ofﬁce, and are due by 5
p.m. on Thursday, Sept. 29. Interviews
will be held the week of Oct. 3. Ques-
tions? Call Joe Framptom at 348-1649
(local call) or Dan Felton at 464-5297.

APO

On Saturday, Sept. 24, Alpha Phi
Omega service fraternity will hold its
second annual Ice Cream Eat-A-Thon
in the Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad from
2 to 4 p.m. 50% of the proceeds will go
to Habitat for Humanity. For more in-
formation please call Paul Saboe at
462-4194.

0
Film
The W&L Film Society will hold its
ﬁrst meeting of the year at 4:30 p.m. on
Tuesday, Sept. 27. The meeting will be
held in Northen Auditorium. New

members and returning members are
encouraged to attend.

Calyx

The Calyx will begin shooting
senior pictures on Monday, Sept.
26. Please sign up for your senior
picture appointment in the Co-op.
All senior pictures must be taken
before Fall Reading Days, Oct. 20.
Reminder: a $20 fee is charged for
each senior who appears in the se-
nior section, no matter who sched-
ules the appointment or places the
senior picture in the Calyx.

Tutoring

On Wednesday, Sept. 28,
Waddell Elementary School will
be hosting a Training Session from
7 to 8 p.m. for students and commu-
nity members interested in tutoring
elementary school students. Inter-
ested? Call Paul Saboe at 462-41 94.

Ariel

If you are interested in writing
for the Phi, or working on the busi-
ness side, please stop by our weekly
storyboard meeting on Tuesdays at
7 p.m. in University Center Room
208.

it

 

 

4

,3»

).-

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1994

OPINION

 

PAGE 7

Parody Advertisement is the opinion of Andrew Schneider

  
       
     

a¢ 

 (6M' 

9/9495 eﬂ/emwl g 

Executive Committee.

straints of a dry rush, rubbing alcohol will be served for open contact.

&EEQ 

RUSH DATE #5-8 8:30-8:45 P.M.: See Rush Dates #1-4.

You may have previously heard of us as the W&L American Civil Liberties Union or those “wild-eyed campus radicals.” After the Executive Committee slammed the funding vault on
our face for the 5 th consecutive year, we realized we had an image problem. As Wé»L 17th fraternity, we hope we can reach out to more groups of people on this campus including the
Because we got oﬂ‘ to a late start and ﬁrmly believe in the legalization of drugs we are going to have what we enjoy calling a “SPEED RUSH.”

OPEN CONTACT exists throughout our rush, where you are encouraged to take any liberties you want as long as they are civil ones in the tradition of Robert E. Lee. Without the con-

OPEN HOUSE 8-8: 15 P.M.: At our open house we discuss the constitutional 1st Amendment rights of the other houses to engage in their childish fraternity chants.

RUSH DATE # 1-4 8:15-8:30 P.M.: This will give freshmen an opportunity to meet our lesbian-African-American-handicapped-single-parent-housemother unless she schedules her
abortion for that time. Until President Wilson approves our petition to move into the Delt house, we will be holding our rush dates at the Willson-Walker House. Expense is no object.

TEAR NIGHT SATURDAY: We will be having a band featuring Ice-T and his controversial single, “Cop Killer.” In addition, we will be encouraging freshmen to tear the bids we handed
out in the form of Confederate Flags. We will have lighter ﬂuid available if they wish to burn their ﬂag—bids, too.

Interviews and Photos
By Betsy Green

       you most looking to
about the new science building?

TALKBACK

 

 

James Donaghy, Department of RobertAIdns, Department of Phys- Fred Schwab, Department of GeoI- Sam Kozak, Department of Geol- Darcy Russell, Department of Biol-
Physics/Engineering —- “It will be ics/Engineering —— “Adequate heat- ogy — “lts completion.”
nice to have new research facilities ing, ventilation, and new wiring.”

and science libraries.”

I
I
I
I
I
I
L

   
 

y¢5. Q \'VGV\t £6 5\cIb5CT;.b¢

’v\.....¢
Omar

pkeue ’Y\-

 

ogy—“Expanded space and ceilings ogy — “All the sciences will be to-

through which water does not leak.” gether in a unified space, so hopefully
the different departments will work
together more.”

Subscribe Ila we ‘Dual

qf  $30., you CGY\  Q PGPQY €\/81"’ VVQQIQ.

Just cut out we coupon amt sevxal it Ila

Cjke ’l2;m.,-t\.m ‘Qua, ‘F>.<f>. 13:... 899.
,L.7ex'Lv\gI'.ov\,  

rZ1iijjjiijijijjjjijijjjjjjjijiﬁ

I
I
I
I
I
I
J

 

Layout by Joe
Framptom

Tom Williams, Department of Phys-
ics/Engineering—- “Quiet — no more
bulldozers. It’s like living in a dentist’s
chair.”

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1994

  

PAGE

8

NEWS

The EC budget ’94: Where it Went

LIBERTY HALL VOLUNTEERS

Expenditures

TRIDENT
SUPERDANCE
SQUASH

SOFTBALL

SOCIETY FOR THE ARTS
SOCCER

SBA

SAMS

SAB

RUGBY CLUB
RING-TUM PHI
RACOUETBALL
PUBLICATIONS BOARD
PRESTON SOCIETY
POLITICAL REVIEW
MOCK CONVENTION _

MSA
LIVE DRIVE

JOURNAL OF SCIENCE
INTERNATIONAL CLUB
INDEPENDENT UNION

ICE HOCKEY

HABITAT FOR HUMANITY
GLW LITERARY

FILM SOCIETY

FIELD HOCKEY
FENCING

CONTACT

CALYX

ARIEL

I0000
20000
30000

160000
140000
120000
100000

80000

50000
60000
70000

ARIEL

CALYX

CONTACT

FENCING

FIELD HOCKEY

FILM SOCIETY

GLW LITERARY

HABITAT FOR HUMANlTY

ICE HOCKEY

INDEPENDENT UNION
INTERNATIONAL CLUB
JOURNAL OF SCIENCE
LIBERTY HALL VOLUNTEERS

Expenditures Vs. Requests

 

LIVE DRIVE

MSA

MOCK CONVENTION
POLITICAL REVIEW
PRESTON SOCIETY
PUBLICATIONS BOARD
RACQUETBALL
RING-TUM PHI
RUGBY CLUB

SAB

SAMS

SBA

SOCCER

SOCIETY FOR THE ARTS
SOFTBALL
SQUASH
SUPERDANCE
TRIDENT

ACLU

AMNEST |NT'L
LJUBILEE

MEN'S PANEL
EMERGENCY LOAN

Sa1erno’s
Subs & Pizza Deli

.  2233*. -.\\_

~«~—~—-———- Secials —--V
, .
Monday Night Footba1l‘\~»-+# "
Special! 5 - 10 p.m.
All-You-Can-Eat Spaghetti
/ with garlic bread

50
only $2 (eatin only)

Wednesday!

Large Cheese Pizza
95
only (toppings extra)
800 i\£oI'ih Main ‘ 

Cl Standard Periodical Directory ............................................. .. $495

0 SPDCD (Publications on CD-FIOM) ........................... .. $695
0 Dxbrldge Directory of Newsletters ..................................... .. $395
Cl National Directory of Magazines ......................................... .. $395

0 OXMODE (Magazines on Disk) on ............................ .. $1,500
Cl National Directory of Catalogs .. .......................................... .. $295

Cl OXCODE (catalogs on Disk) ..................................... .. $995
CI National Directory of Mailing Lists ................................... .. $345
0 The college Media Directory ............................................. .. $145
El Publishing Trends & Trendsetters (1 OX per year) .............. .. $245
Cl who's Printing what (Newsletter) .................................... .. $195

CI List Leads (Newsletter-Obscure Direct Marketing Leads) ..- $145

 
 
 
  
 
  
  
     

    
 

   

Can We Do More For You .9

The answer is YES! Ifyou would like to review our directories, newsletters and disk/CD-ROM
products for a FREE 30-day trial  please check below and return:

   
  
    

Lexington Hair Design
Mon. - Fri. 8:30-5:00, Sat. 8:30-12:30
Haircuts: Men, $6 Women, $8
Perms:

s25,spira1sexrra I
463-3344

      
   
     

CI'|FT~’>

   

ITEM?) N GOOD CONDITION \\/I:.L.C0t\£.
I l \\/.\\/A:>Lh~Iq‘TON ::TlZ:.l:.T

otxr To tuvniz.->rrY .~>PaIz1\vI:Atz)

705 464.9500

 

Name
Iitle
Company
Address .
City, State. Zip
Teleplione

Cl Please send me information on your directories on disk!
0 Please send me information on advertising in your directories.

  I

     

.7/Fae‘?/z&<e

HARDWARE STORES ‘K

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

I HAIR

by Marie, Robin, Kim 8. Barbara

°a'”°' MARIE s

I

I

I
I I
I , l
I Appointment —— '
l

11 South Jefferson
__‘°3___'9ff8__ __ L_¢_axIp_gtc_a_n,_\_/I_rgInIa 24459,

Ke|ly’s Corner

OnRt.6D(NolsorISt.),2.5mIIeswestotLIe)dngton

“The tradition continues”
Famous hot dogs w/ chili 99¢ ea.,
delicious BBQ sandwiches $1.39

7-Up, A&W root beer, RC, cream soda-
3 cans / $1.00

  

Nat Light suits - $9.59
Oly cans suits - $6.59
40 lb. ice » $4.99

As Always, We Provide The Best
Service For The W&L Community

      
      
    
     
         
 

Alcohol quic(Ii<ly affects your judgment, g 
balance, an coord'nat'0n. Don't 0

drink and ride. Or ydur Iiist Lexlngton .
drink might be your last drink

uoromeu sum I=ouIIIImoII @  for

  

 

   
 
  

  
 

 

. _ _ E. .
Do You Want Credit Cards? . uNI—c1mD.Box 220645.HOI.LYWO0D.FL 330221 Pappagallo
I Q ' Ladies’ Shoes
1 t‘MAST!§!CARD0lmn1edlately. . _ 9
eredltcard i':°I."I.e’°:o$"E'ir'I:Vi'5  : YES. mm row. ounnimraeni I Clothlnga and
°“*‘°”°'“*‘.’F,",E',"’f ﬂ 3°‘ 2: : : Accessories
deserveuedneedfor-‘lbs-¥E3OKS-—DEPARl‘MENT I NAME l
STORES-—11.Iﬂ10N—ENTBR'l‘AlNMENl‘-— , I
Izmemencv aisn—1IexE1s~ResTi£‘I'z~_Atms— ' ADDRESS  . . '  S  Z0‘
‘REPAIRS-ANDTO _wII.ovoi.nzcr;i=:nrrnA11NeI : Cl'iY A STA'l‘E--ZlP ‘ : 9
V -    ~ ._. ‘STUD:-:N'ri% Yes N ,#
5  *,:‘,“ﬂf"g;‘,§,, I “TAT” : Hours: 10 — 5:30
A  u ,.     “ ' d°”°'i' '  ' 23 N Main St
0 E‘  ‘ t  in :'el.'\l..ii..‘l ill. _:‘\l)l'.z,\t‘\‘ i_,UL ‘:".,\.“'l\ i\,iﬂ>5"x‘l  < A  .

Iaa“c

 

 

    
   

 
 

       

I /

I .

“assess

§
3:0.
t
%,
i

‘ I

§

.1,

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 23, 1994

HBITIST

MEANS

  
 

BI’

REDUCED PRICES
CAROLINA PRIDE

‘ MEAT
BOLOGNA

12
OZ.

  
 

 

 

BREAST

USDA GRADE A 5{’.‘.‘.55ﬁo”.‘6'.’.i*
TYSON-HOLLY FARMS PURCHASE, PLEASE
JUMBO PAK

   
 
 
 
   
 

Mixed Media

By Jack Ohman

  

    
      
   

LB.

9

,\~ \

THOMPISI/ON 

sEEDI.Es§
GRAPES

   
 
 
 
   
  
 

LOW PRICES
BARTLETT, RED OR

BOSC
PEARS

(3 ,
{L
- ,3 .  0
’s:. .

  
 

0 '
LB.

ELORIDAGOLD

ORANGE JUICE

 

» GREAT VALUE

PEPSI OR
DIET PEPSI

“.99

REGULAR on
3% OLD FASHIONED
WEEKLY SPECIAL WEEKLY SPECIAL

MUELLER’ S
SPAGHETTI

REGULAR
OR THIN

16
OZ.

   

HARRIS TEETER
ICE CREAM

99

H ALL FLAVORS

GAL.

 

 

 

HARRIS TEETER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT

 

L

 .97

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

SELECTED VARIETIES ORVILLE

REDENBACHEIVS 21 7
POPCORN 3;.

15

BANQUET

MACARONI
& CHEESE

.3/99

'i§’5'i'EEi‘:°i‘ii"riI°" 99
TABLETS 

.i. “

HUNTER FARMS

FUDGE
BARS .

KEEBLER ‘'72
WHEATABLES 3.7.

32/300

Prices Effective Through Se 1. 27, I994

Prices In Thi Acl Ellective Wednesday, September 2l , Through T
O iy.We Reserve The Right 0

II

Limit Quantities. None Sod To

d is t b 2 I 1994 In our Lexington store‘
lies Cl/Jea‘ii2)riimW(:2rGlodly Accept Federal Food Sfamps. '

an? Annuity Aunrinlian/Culley: Retirement Equitiu Funa.

OI994 Tzubera Inaurtmu
I

\
I’RIXCIl’I.I‘:S of S()L'NI) RI’.'l‘IRIC.\\I’.\"I‘ IN\'I’.S'I‘I\'(} i
EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF
THROUGH RETIREMENT.
hink about supporting yourself for At TIAA-CREF, we not only under-
twenty-five, thirty years or longer stand the value of starting early, we

in retirement. It might be the greatest can help make it possible—with ﬂexible
ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, retirement and tax-deferred annuity

you have one valuable asset in your plans, a diverse portfolio of investment
favor. Time. choices, and a record of personal

Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. service that spans 75 years.
Time for your money to grow. Over 1.5 million people in education
But starting early is key. Consider this: and research are already enrolled in

ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at America's largest retirement system.

age thirty, you can accumulate $138,2o9* Find out how easy it is to join them. Call
by the time you reach age sixty-five. today and learn how simple it is to put
Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside yourself through retirement when you ‘-
$203 a month to reach the same goal. have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.

Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Ilotline I 800 842-2888.
A A
Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?‘
*A.1.mn1in_¢ an inftrz.-I I'¢lf( if/' 6%. T/.v1'.r mix 1}» />_v/wI/)rl[m/ uIu):1.rnl.uv/r/y In .-/mu‘ I/24' /mum‘ mu} lf,:EL'I‘[ ufm/It;wuI(h'/n). I.mv:-r «Ir /Irqbrr rm‘:.1 «mu/J
prz7(}m'e wry JI/Ti'/':'rI/ rvnu//.r. ('/(FFi'.'I‘I1'/h'iIIi'.v rm’zllnl/'1/rum’ﬁ_v 7'/.-I. l—(‘/\’I'.'I" /I1:lI'ri:lmI/41/14’ //I.rlI‘lulI'nIm/ S:'r¢'ti't.v.

 

-..-_._.._...J

 

  

Last Week:

CC- (M)- lost to Mary Washington 32-23
(W)- def. Mary Washington 20-36
SOCCER (W)-lost to Va. Wesleyan 3-2; def. Hollins 10-1
(M)-def. Frostburg St. 2-0; Ham. Syd. 3-0

VOLLEYBALL- 4-2 at W&L Invit.; lost to E. Menonite
WATER PoLo- 0-3 at Navy EWPA Invitational

PAGE 10

S

(J11: ‘iﬂing-tum iﬂht

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, CROSS COUNTRY, VOLLEYBALL

This Week:

CC- Chris Newport Invit. (M); Dickinson Open (W)
SOCCER (M)- at Roanoke; vs. Guilford

(W)- at Wooster; at Ma.ry Baldwin
Vou.i-:YnAu.- vs. Roanoke; at RMWC
WATER PoLo- at Navy Invitational

F00'l'BALL- at Centre

SEPTEMBER 23, 1994

Women’s cross country breaks into top 25

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Following the lead of Wash-
ington & Lee’s women’s lacrosse
and tennis programs, W&L’s lady
runners are drawing national at-
tention.

Just don’t expect to see them
following much else. They’re
quite comfortable leading by
themselves.

Two weeks and a pair of first-
place finishes into the ’94 sea-
son, the women’s cross-country
team has cracked the national
rankings for the first time ever at
number 25.

The team will face a big test
Saturday when they face a num-
ber of Division I programs at the
VMI Invitational. Among the
teams expected to compete are
Virginia, Virginia Tech, Radford,
and Liberty.

Head coach Jim Phemister,
though, likes what he sees from
his team heading into the meet.

“They have no apprehension
about Saturday,” he said.
“They’re just really doing a su-
per job.”

The meet is scheduled to start
at 8:45 am at the Rockbridge

County High School. Despite the
challenge facing them Saturday,
the women are already optimis-
tic about the season ahead.

“This is our best season yet,”
said senior captain Kim Herring.

The Generals let that be known
by taking the top spot in the 24-
team Lebanon Valley Invitational
two weeks ago. W&L finished
fifth in that meet last year.

Last Saturday, the women
turned their home debut into a
whipping of Mary Washington
College. Junior Josephine
Schaeffer cruised across the fin-
ish line in 18:15, a second off her
own course record.

Junior Amy Mears was next
across a minute and a half later,
and senior Sue Deutsch placed
fourth (21:01).

At Lebanon Valley, Schaeffer
(18:23) won in a laugher, taking
38 seconds off her own course
record, set last year.

A third place finish by Mears
and aﬁfth place showing by fresh-
man Maren Wright helped the
Generals dominate the 24-team
field.

Another freshman, Carson
Flowers, finished in eleventh. She
and her classmates have given
the already talented Generals rea-

son to call this their “best season
yet.”
“They really add to our depth,”
said Herring, a 15th place fin-
isher at Lebanon Valley. “We
need to have seven or eight strong
runners, and they’ve ﬁt right in.”

Schaeffer is also excited about
what the first-year runners have
brought to the squad.

“They’re great,” she said. “It’s
a big transition from high school
and they’ve done so well.”

According to Herring, the
newcomers and the entire team’s
improvement have given the
women reason for optimism.
After a second place ﬁnish at last
year’s regional championships,
a ﬁrst place performance and a
berth to the national champion-
ships appears within the team’s
grasp.

“I thinkwe have a good chance
as a team,” Schaeffer said. “That
would really be fun.”

For Schaeffer, a trip to na-
tionals would be a great accom-
plishment. Not because it would
be her third straight chance at the
national title, but that just a few
months ago she wasn’t running
at all.

A knee injury wiped out her
spring track season and left her

 

Photo by sag, cm; ‘The Rihg —n)}n Phi

The W&L volleyball team stromed through the W&L Invitational to the
tune of a runner-up position with their only losses to Pitt-Johnstown. The
Generals have compiled a 5-4 record on the season thus far.

K

THE PIII NEEDS
SPORTS WRITERS
AN LAYOUT AS-
SISTANTS.
ONE INTERESTED
IN BEING A PART
DE A W&L TRA-
DITION AND
GAINING VALU-
ABLE EXPERIENCE
SIIOULD CONTACT
STEPHEN
WILLIARD AT
1163-7296 OR
CALL THE PIII

ANY-

\

wondering about her running fu-
ture. After a ﬁve months of inac-
tivity, she was able to work her
way back.

“I didn’t really know what to
think,” Schaeffer said of her run-
ning career. “I worked really hard,
though, and I’m just happy to be
running again. It’s nice to be
back.”

For someone in a sport of few
breaks, Schaeffer was frustrated
by being unable to train, yet knew
that she probably needed a rest.

After a summer of hard work
to get back in form, the two-time
All-American appears to be as
good as ever. Along the way back,
she also picked up a new out-
look.

“My attitude towards running
has changed so much,” she said.
“I appreciate it so much more.”

She also would likely appre-
ciate a first place finish by her
team at the NCAA South/South-
east Regionals, sending the en-
tire squad to the nationals.

This year’s regional champi-
onship is scheduled for
Schaeffer’s hometown of Mem-
phrs.

“If the team stays healthy and
works hard, we can do it,” she
said.

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Sue Deutsch leads the pack en route to a
fourth place finish in last weekend’s meet against
Mary Washington. The Generals won the meet tak-
ing three of the top four spots.

W&L Volleyball rolls on

BY STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

Pitt-Johnstown proved to be
the bane of the Generals at the
Washington and Lee Invitational
last weekend.

The Generals lost to Pitt-
Johnstown in the ﬂrst and last
games of the tournament as they
tallied a second place finish with
a 4-2 record.

Washington and Lee was rep-
resented on the All-Tournament
team by freshman Hilary Martin
who netted 56 kills in six matches.

Following the match against
Pitt-Johnstown in the first con-
test of the Invitational, starting
setter Cheryl Taurassi was in-
jured in the second match against
Elizabethtown.

The injury just provided an
opportunity for a W&L player to
step up and perform. Freshman
Allison Beard came on to help
the Generals to a 15-12 victory.

To reach the finals, the W&L
squad had to find a way to defeat
Sweet Briar, Thiel, and Catholic
in three straight games.

While the task facing the Gen-
erals was by no means a simple
one, the team responded with
ﬂair.

Against Sweet Briar and
Thiel, the Generals were victori-
ous in straight games, leaving
only Catholic standing between
the W&L team and a rematch
with Pitt-Johnstown.

After winning the first game
15-7, the Generals lost the sec-
ond game 15-8 and trailed 6-1 in
the third game. Once again, a
W&L player stepped forward.

This time it was senior Jen-
nifer Garrigus. The W&L cap-
tain turned it on with seven kills
in the third game to rally the
team to a 15-8 win and a chance
at the championship.

Despite the tightly contested
loss in the championship match,
the Generals had reached the
championship match for the first
time in the four year history of
the tournament.

The other contest for the Gen-
erals this week was against Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
rival Eastern Menonite Thurs-
day night.

The Generals fell 2-1 in the
contest, but not without outstand-
ing individual efforts.

Sophomore Elizabeth Bahn
and Hilary Martin led the team in
kills with seven apiece.

Cheryl Taurassi was back on
the ﬂoor with 20 assists for the
Generals as they played a tough,
in-conference rival.

The W&L team has opened
the season on a high note with a
5-4 record as they try to improve
on the 15-12 mark of last season.

Last year was the first for
coach Terry Dadio, and the first
winning season for the Generals
since 1988.

On the slate this week for the
team are conference rivals
Roanoke and Randolph Macon
Women’s College.

The Generals defeated both
teams last season 3-0. The next
weekend finds the team at the
Emory Invitational.

The Generals are shooting for
the first back to back winning
seasons in the team’s history.
They also have a chance at the
school record for wins, which
currently stands at 16.

Photo not avail-
able for Shag
Drewry.

Athletes of the Week

BY STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

Being a freshman starter on a
college sports team is difficult
enough, but to come in and per-
form at a high level is quite rare.

Freshman soccer center for-
ward Erica Reineke has done just
that. The freshman star has al-
ready tied last seasons team high
with 13 points on 5 goals and 3
assists. ,

In the loss to Virginia
Wesleyan, Reineke had both
W&L goals in the 3-2 contest
and against Randolph Macon she
tallied a goal and an assist.

Reineke, though only a fresh-

man, has a legitimate shot at the
school scoring record.

The current school record
stands at 21 points for the sea-
son.
Soccer provided both athletes
of the week this week as men’s
soccer star Shag Drewry claimed
the honor.

The junior led the team in
scoring last season with seven
goals and an assist, but was shut
down early in the year by oppos-
ing defenses.

Recently, Drewry has come
off the bench to provide a much
needed spark for the Generals
offense.

Drewry scored two goals in a
come-from-behind win over

Emory and Henry.

He also netted a crucial insur-
ance goal against Frostburg State
in W&L’s 2-0 victory.

The three goals in two games
put Drewry back atop the W&L
soccer scoring list again this sea-
son.
Both athletes have made sig-
niﬁcant contributions to their re-
spective teams over the course of
the past week. Both soccer squads
have benefited from the presence
of these offensive threats.

--Athletes of‘ the week are se-
lected each week by the Wash-
ington and Lee athletic depart-
ment.

fr.

‘W

 

