  

I (L,
I

'4

 

.,AmN
I “‘f~_‘:—L'>)78~ 
9RS&2
? wot

mm

 

ﬁﬁ

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

3 THE RING-TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MAY 23, 2005

BY THE STUDENTS

AND ron THE

srunrurs sINcEds97

‘,3 ‘I
VOLUME CIX, NUMBER 2

WHAT’S INSIDE"

I Breka gives you a laugh with her
list of the top 10 things to do before
leaving Lex.

Page 4

I Becky LeMoine accuses pop.
culture elitists -- are you one? Find
out on page 2.

 

I Want to see “The Tamer Tamed”

but aren’t sure if it’ll be worth your
time? Check out our review to hear
our opinion of the spring show.

Page3
HOT TICKET‘

Supercomedy!

What happens to superheroes once
retirement hits? Come watch “The
Incredibles” to find out. The ﬁlm
runs in the Commons theater on
Mon. May 23 at 7:00 p.m. and at
9:30 p.m. on Tues. May
24, Thurs.
May 26,
and Fri.
May 27.

SPORTS UPDATE

Women’s tennis hit
quarterfinals

Both women’s tennis doubles teams
moved on the quarterﬁnals of the
NCAA Division III Championships
on Saturday in Kalamazoo. Senior
Lindsey Hagerman was the lone
singles player to advance into the

I quarterﬁnals. Hagerman also won

her seventh All-American honors by
defeating Muhlenberg’s Amy
Schmidt, 6-1, 6-3.

Senior named All-Star
W&L senior midﬁelder Adam
Chesbrough has been added to the
south roster for the annual North-
South Men’s Lacrosse Senior All-
Star game to be held at 12:00 pm on
Sat., June 11 at SUNY-Cortland.

Men’s tennis falls short
W&L senior Paul McClure and
junior David Shay were defeated in
the first round of the NCAA Division
_III Doubles Championships on
Saturday afternoon on the campus of
the University of California Santa
Cruz. Additionally, McClure was
eliminated from the singles
championships with a second round
loss.

TUNE IN

He’s been called the “greatest
musician you’ve probably never
heard of’ and has claimed bluegrass
competition championships and the
respect and admiration of the largest
of the living legends in the genre.
It’s the “Larry Keel Experience.”

_ It only takes the spin of one track
to realize the depth and breadth of
Larry’s ability: not only does he ﬁre
crisp and clear melodies on his six-
string but backs it up equally with a
gritty baritone voice. I

Hear Larry on House Mountain
Radio this Tuesday evening from
7:00-8:00 pm before he takes his
band out west for the summer. For
more information check out his
website at www.larrykeel.com.

   
    

Students prove susceptible to attacks

By Erin Julius and Leah Kershaw
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF AND STAFF WRITER

Two local men have been charged
in connection with crimes against
Washington and Lee students.

Mike Young, W&L’s director of
security, said the two men are formally
charged in connection with the recent car
robberies that occurred at the Pole Houses.
The Rockbridge County Sheriff informed
W&L security that the two men had been
charged and that stolen belongings had
been recovered on Friday, said Young. The
Rockbridge County Sheriff’s office
conﬁrmed that both men had been taken
into custody.

Young said he suspects that the two
men were also involved in the assault of a
Washington and Lee. student early
Thursday morning. David Mitchell, a
sophomore, was trying to flag down a
Traveller car near “County Seat” when he
was attacked. Mitchell said two men came
up from behind him. One sprayed him in
the face with a chemical, similar to mace,
and the other struck him in the back of the
head. The two men then ﬂed the scene.

Mitchell said he ﬁled a report with
the Rockbridge County Sheriff on
Thursday.

Another incident occurred Saturday
night when a group of five men attacked
Washington and Lee student David Seifert

 

“It’s important for all students

to remember that bad things can
happen in Lexington and we
need to remember to take the

necessary precautions.”

—'KELLY JO LARSEN, W&L STUDENT ‘05

as he was walking up Henry St. and turning
on to Randolph St. Seifert said that the
men were yelling vulgar comments at his
companion, Liz Lane. He said they tried
to ignore the comments, but the men
stopped them, pushed Lane out of the way
and started punching Seifert in the face.

“I tried to defend myself but I was
surprised by it,” Seifert said.

Lane called the police while the
men were punching Seifert. After she told
the men that the police were on their way,
the five men ran away. An ambulance
arrived with the police to take Seifert to

the hospital. The two students have ﬁled

a police report but have not notified
Washington and Lee security.

In addition to the string‘ of recent
attacks, a peeping tom has been harassing
female Washington and Lee students.
Kelly J o Larsen, Kristen Brown and Annie

Rochfort, who live at the corner of
Randolph and Massie, came home one
night about a week ago to police pounding
on their door. The police informed the
students that one of their neighbors had
called and reported seeing a man on the
women’s roof.

‘This is complicated by the fact that
our living room and two bedrooms have
skylights in them,” said Larsen.

This peeping tom apparently has a
habit of spying on the women.

“A week earlier my roommates had
thought they had heard a man on the roof
but we didn’t do anything about it,” Larsen
said. “We’re rational and when you hear
things you don’t think much about them.”

The students have not reported the
attack to Washington and Lee security and
thepolice have not caught the peeping
tom.

“The police were very nice and told
us to call if we ever thought anything was
wrong,” Larsen said.

Thispeeping torn is not the first to
harass Washington and Lee women.
Around February, the five women of
“Utah” on North Randolph Street
discovered that someone had set up a
ladder to the roof of their house.
According to Katharine Lester, one day the
women’ found footsteps in the snow and
called the police. Police moved the ladder,
told the women to lock their doors and
windows, and promised the women that
they would watch the house. The women
have not had a problem since.

In light of the recent crimes, Young
said he urges students to be more careful.
“Although Washington and Lee security
can’t protect you all the time, we are trying
to keep you as safe as possible,” said
Young.

Students certainly need to be more
aware of their surroundings following
these various reports of attacks and
harassment of Washington and Lee
students. ‘

“Everyone always thinks these
things don’t happen in Lexington,” Larsen
said. “Recent events have highlighted the
fact that we don’t actually live in a bubble.
It’s important for all students to remember
that bad things can happen in Lexington
and we need to remember to take the
necessary precautions,” she said.

Murph Murphy ‘55 and friend reminisce at their 50th reunion.

Alumni descend on Lex

Class of 1955 donates over $2 million to its alma mater

By Katherine Shell
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

This past weekend, the classes of
1955, 1960, 1965, 1970, 1975, 1980.
1985, 1990, 1995, and 2000 made their
way to Lexington for Alumni Weekend.
Events such as luncheons, assemblies,
tours and banquets entertained the alum
for the majority of the time. Also, with
various band parties and cocktail parties,
undergraduate students and alumni were
able to reunite for the last weekend of the
year.

Valerie Delaune ’O7, a member of
Kathekon, stated that “we enjoyed, having
the alums in town this weekend, and hope
they had a wonderful time meeting

“It was very
comfortable
being on campus.
The students made
the alums feel very

welcome.”
—CHRlS SURDO, CLASS OF ‘04
 

undergraduates and their
classmates.”

“It was very comfortable being on
campus,” says Chris Surdo ’04, back for

his first alumni weekend. “The students

seeing

STEVEN MARINOS / PHOTO EDITOR

made the alums feel very welcome.”
Events were planned by various classes
and groups on campus to show the
returning alumni new buildings and plans.
The administration held an assembly
dedicated to informing the alumni about
the Strategic Planning currently being
discussed on campus, giving the alumni
“the opportunity to hear about current
suggestions, voice their opinion of these
ideas, and contribute their own ideas into
the process,” according to the Alumni
Website.

The class of 1955 gave over two
million dollars to the university in honor

of their ﬁftieth reunion, and the class of ’

1980 gave a full scholarship honoring a
classmate who died the_ﬁrst week of their
freshrnanyear.

Bow ing

class ost

By Shelley Orman
STAFF WRITER

Students who wish to take one
of Washington and Lee’s most popular

have to travel outside of Lexington if
the class continues to be offered.

This change is a result of the
closing of Lexington’s only bowling
alley, Lexington Lanes.

- A notice on the door of the alley
reveals that the center closed at
midnight on May 16. The sign
indicates that the bowling alley closed
because of financial reasons and
corporate dissolution.

Lexington Lanes’ closing will
affect more than people who just like
to bowl. Organizations like the Special
Olympics Bowling and Washington
and Lee’s PE class will have to adjust
as well.

There are currently 146 students
on the wait-list for Bowling 149 who
will be affected by this change.
Sophmore Mallory Calhoun said, “I
wouldn’t travel an hour to take a
bowling PE class because my
schedule’s already so full anyway.”

Students who do want to go
bowling can travel to one of the ﬁve
bowling alleys located within an hour
from Lexington.

Staunton Bowling Lanes and
Thunder Alley, which is located in
nearby Covington, Va., are both a forty
minute drive away. They can also try
Char1ottesville’s AMF Kegler Lanes,
which is open seven days a week and
has 48 lanes. AMF Hilltop Lanes in
Roanoke and Lee-Hi Lanes in Salem
are just over an hour away.

Sen. Warner, T orn Wo fe to come to

Press Release
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

Two of Washington &Lee
University’s most famous alumni return
this June to participate in the 218"‘
commencement.

This year’s commencement
ceremony, to be held June 2 at 10 a.m.,
will include Washington and Lee alumnus,

Virginia’s senior Senator John W. Warner,
class of 1949. , .

Warner will be presented with an
honorary Doctor of Letters degree. Warner
credits his alma mater, and in particular
its Honor System, with preparing him well
for his political career.

“It has been the core values of the
University, particularly those embodied in
our revered honor code, that I have turned

to at times_in my life when I have had to
make difﬁcult decisions,” said Warner. “I
consider that honor code to be my anchor.
I have reached for that anchor often, and
have found its strength to be both
reassuring and inspirational.”

“It is altogether fitting that
Washington and Lee University, which has
long prided itself on dedication to service,
should be honoring one of its own for his,"

graduation

said University President Thomas Burish.

Another notable alumnus, author
Tom Wolfe, class of 1951, will give the
commencement address.

This will be Wolfe’s third
appearance on campus this year.
Previously, Wolfe has visited for book
signings of his latest novel, the
controversial I Am Charlotte Simmons.

 

a ey coses, .

PE courses, Bowling 149', will now‘

  

THE RING-TUlW‘P1‘-H

2 0

  

\\.. ‘V. II.’

 ,-

ﬂit moi

0I]|ll|0llS

 

MONDAY, MAY 23, 2005

No matter what changes, alumni say that W&L remains the same

Bylvlayctids

I‘i‘SM)TYC1J.|'!"sNE

Well, if you couldn’t tell by my last
two (or so) articles, plus that one that they
gave to me that I didn’t write, the
inspiration for these articles has been a bit
lacking. So when my old friend Torn
Lovell of the alumni department — I’m
telling you, I have some pretty weird
connections — approached me at lunch
today, he was all, “why is everything you
write in the Phi negative?” Negative, is
it? 1 have very little idea of what I’ve been
publishing here, apparently. Perhaps its
been lackluster or hypocritical at best. So
I told him, well, Tom, this is how it is: I
got nothing to write about. Any
suggestions? And he said he’d think on it.
And I was expecting some Tom Lovell e-
mail a few weeks later, perhaps in July,
discussing the importance of a beard when
chaperoning children — to assert your
masculinity and age and assure your
control of the situation, even on Bourbon

Down wit

ByBeckyl.dVlo'ne

Tl-ELERALVEW

By now, it seems that I have
established myself as the one of the most
offensive Phi writers. The irony lies in the
fact that I have offended everyone, at one
point or another. So, to end the year in a
similarly offensive fashion, I would like
to examine an issue that could collectively
insult every type of person, including
myself: People who are elitists about their
tastes in pop culture.

What defines a “pop culture elitist”?
I believe there are two separate categories
of elitists. For convenience and clarity,
these categories—will;be.,deﬁned in terms
of music. The first is the elitist who refuses
to recognize the artistic or musical value
of any form of music other than the form
he/she confines himself/herself to.

The second is the elitist who feels
he/ she is superior to other people who like
the same form of music, with reasons for
this superiority varying from length of
devotion to a particular band or singer to
the amount of useless trivia known about
a band or singer. In both cases, the elitist
wishes to establish his/her superiority over
others simply based on tastes in pop
culture.To some degree, I think we are all
the ﬁrst type of elitist. For most of us, there
is at least one genre of music or one
particular band or singer that we refuse to
recognize as worthy of our listening. For
me, that singer is Ashlee Simpson. For
you, it might be Marilyn Manson or Garth
Brooks or Britney Spears or Dave
Matthews or  the list goes on and on.

_ However, there is a difference between

having the opinion that a band is terrible,

Street. But I gotta tell you, Tom surprised
me.lHe really came through this time. I
was in mid—conversation with people my
age, you know, freshmen, when Tom
comes over and says hey, c’mere,_I’ve got

. an article for you. My friends looked at

me kind of weirdly that I was being
summonsed by this random guy, but I had
faith in Tom and I followed. He led me to
a table of alumni brimming with ideas for
an article, and — you know this is coming
— love for their old stomping grounds.

Now I was caught completely
unawares that alumni even read my
article. That’s a pretty awkward realization
to have in the middle of a sea of alumni. I
didn’t even know about that whole
constituency - I guess it should have
occurred to me, but I missed it. But these
alumni had read my articles and were more
than willing to contribute. And they
couldn’t help but wonder. . .Why do
alurrmi froth at the mouth so about their
beloved Washington and Lee, and why by
extension, why do they come back at every
chance they get?

Now Washington and Lee is a
small school, and we’ve been a small
school for a while now. And the obvious
answer to why its alums are so in love,
still, after all these years, is that there are
only so many of us to love. YOU went to
W&L?? I went to W&L!! Tl1at’s amazing! !
And we could stop there and think that
that’s why we’re all so in love with each
other, because it’s like a little piece of our
darling W&L come to talk to us.

But my friends at the table and I
thought it was perhaps more than just that.
This passion for W&L and this avid desire
to return for Parent’s Weekend (whether
or not you have a kid there. . . ..) and Alumni
Weekend is evidence that W&L is doing
something right (oh my God, a positive
article by yours truly. And oh my God,
something positive about W&L in a
newspaper. It’s a big day on both fronts).
Through all the years, and all the various
administrations trying to make us
Davidson and trying to bend such a
wonderful University to whatever Dean’s
evil will, Washington and Lee has proven

pop culture elitists

and being elitist about your music choice.
Having an opinion usually denotes
that you have at least listened to a
substantial amount of the band’s music,
and still think it lacks talent. Being elitist
means that you do not like a band simply
based on one song, an image, or
reputation. In other words, you would not
dare descend from your lofty pedestal to
give a chance to something you consider
so shallow and dissonant. I am this way
about Ashlee Simpson, and each of you
are probably thesame way about another
band or singer. Just ﬁll in the blank: “I
would never be caught dead listening to
________.”The second type of elitism is
what really bothers me. These are the
people who say, “I’m a bigger fan because
I liked them way back when, when nobody
knew who they were!” This is just
ridiculous. The circumstances that lead us
to like a band are different for each.
Maybe you didn’t start liking your
favorite band until a certain event made
you start associating one of their songs
with that special memory. Maybe it was
when you saw the band in concert. Maybe
it was when you first listened to an entire
album. There are countless reasons why
you could have started liking a band later

‘than someone else. Don’t get me wrong;

being with them from the beginning could
certainly mean that you are a more devoted
fan. It just seems absurd to use this fact to
assume your superiority over another
fan.The same argument can be made for
people who think that your devotion to a
band can only be measured by how much
money you spend buying their products,
how often you have seen them in concert,
and how much useless knowledge you

know about the band. While all of these
facts could certainly indicate that you are
a more devoted fan, there are always
circumstances in which this would not be
true. For example, someone who is too
poor to simply go out and buy every Elvis
artifact in existence is not necessarily less
of a fan than the rich person who can easily
afford to spend thousands on an extensive
Elvis collection.

In general, competition over who is
the bigger fan seems a. petty means of
establishing that only you have the right
and deserve to enjoy that particular music;
in essence, that the music can only be
special for you, because you have a closer
connection with it than anyone else. Yet, I
think that most artists would appreciate any
well-intentioned listeners, even if those
listeners had not heard of the band until
one of their songs hit the radio, did not
have a huge collection of their
memorabilia, and could not boast of
having been to at least twenty of their
concerts. Having differing opinions and
differing tastes is what makes us individual
beings. Though we may not like a certain
band, we should at least respect others who
see the beauty in their music. Additionally,
though we may feel as though we are the
only ones entitled to like our favorite band,
we should at least respect others for
recognizing, in whatever means possible,
the talent we have loved all along.

I don’t think there is anything wrong
with being a pop culture elitist, as long as
you don’t disrespect others for not being
on the same page as you. If we begin to
deride and demean everyone for their tastes
in pop culture, we may get more than what
we wished for... a homogeneous society.

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Blow hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!

www.premier411.com
1 877 SEE POOL

 

   

103:.” true» heat £  -of "y=v:u1a.1r
Iigfa‘? lE:2as-1ste-r-  Virginia can Help
‘y-nru. .£i'n.<:1 11:. We acre ~¢::cau.1m.:rnui.tta«c1. sac:
help-htg peapdre  disaaadlitiesi ugtarirt.
-greatest is:-.-u::i.e.r]g;reara:::1e::si.«::a¢=.-.~... ]'a:'>;-hm. urnxr
dedicated tea:-n. -t1-1.11:; asam.un:rne-:r- at Gaxnp
East-arr ﬁnals "‘U'i.rcgiz:tia in Craig Gotxmtty.
VHF-cu hnvun ‘ far -::ai.z:r|g;:I-

acxunsalm-rs » _ _ . - — 4
(axgun-Izics,  riding, nuxsic,
nnhmra,  3.21:3. rn»oxrsa}- ﬂaunt,

 caniaaizt Deharah Dmszerkz at
clciurerkxﬁwra.-eaertuaxasealseczorn or at
(6403 8k€6‘~d:-—-6:760- Visit aux vv4a2l.:m:i.te tn:
ieazn how ‘yricaru -cart: rrtsskaee Ia. ciiffe-rence-
vau‘varvwc..v'a-eat:s.taa>;:res:etals...¢aotn1.

0

‘ZIP

FINE LINGERIE

Come See
What ’s New
in Town

21 W. Nelson St.

463-6963
Mon - Fri 10-5:30
Sat 10-5

“semper ubl sub ubi”

itself amazingly resilient. Despite
changing laws and regulations, we still
partake in the same fundamental activities
and despite the changing face behind the
Colonnade, the real stuff that makes up
our University has remained unchanged
and will probably, based on the
enlightening and reassuring comments of
our forerunners, be there for us to make
our pilgrimage to kneel before the tomb
of Lee and walk in the shadows of white
columns. So there’s hope yet, as my alumni
friends indicated to me — because in their
day, they too had the Phil Walotskies
(sorry, Phil, I had to make it plural — I know
how to spell it) v. the Dean Watkinses, and
here we continue to wage that battle with
the full knowledge — or hope — that we’re
fighting the battle for show and we all
understand that nobody, not nobody but
Lee himself, could ever change this school
from what it is and what Lee meant it to
be.

And while that would have been a
good place to end, I have one more point.

While we were discussing how rabid these

Bysaabuckworlh

FIHEHIJDKE

What is there to say really? The
school year is drawing to a close and
some of my best friends are graduating.
I’m excited for them and they’re going
to some great places. They have also
all made the foolish mistake of inviting
me to come visit. They’re going to
graduate schools and getting real adult
jobs. In high school, graduation was
always exciting, because everyone was
going off to college and experiencing
that first true sense of freedom. There
was a sense of assurance that at the end
of May everyone would come back

" homeland swap all of their “awesome”
stories about all the “awesome” parties
they went to with all of their
“awesome” new friends.

Sadly, that adult world does not
include summer vacation, nor does it
mean everyone coming back to Big Lex
at the end of the year. Thank goodness
for cell phones.

To be honest, I’m glad I have one
more year before it’s my head on the
chopping block, even though everyone
I meet has started to ask what exactly

alumni are, Lee Hollis and Barry Barlow
(two of my table buddies) commented that
when a graduate leaves W&L, it’s not just
a piece of paper with a signature to hang
up. We leave here as shareholders in this‘
ﬁne institution — there will never be a point
in our lives when we are not closely tied
to the “cult” of W&L. When we return,
it’s a check-up to ensure that Lee would
smile upon our progress and call us
Gentlemen (and women).

Maggie Olgivie, class of ’97, added
that it’s a part of our duty — a result of our
honor code that is so drilled into us. As
graduates, W&L is a part of us forever and
the yearly journey to pay homage is also
an acceptance of that responsibility to
uphold and maintain the University as it
has been and as it should be.

And under the ‘watchful stone eyes
of General Lee (and I shouldn’t neglect
Washington) and the guiding hand of our
friendly and rabid alumni, Washington and
Lee will continue to battle itself to keep

itself. And the odds there are pretty good ’

that W&L will come out on top.

Farewell to class of 2005

I’m doing with the rest of my life. Telling
them that I’m desperately waiting to get
interviewed for my MRS degree doesn’t
seem to suit (and if you know me that
really is a joke). My mother’s face turns
an interesting shade of white every time I
mention social worker. My grandmother,
is positive I was just kidding about not
going to medical school, but sadly, I still
don’t want to take the MCAT — or Organic
for that matter. My father’s Christmas
letter included a plea to all of his fraternity
brothers to ﬁnd me a job. The people in
Career Services may get incredibly tired
of me, but I’ll ﬁgure it out. Senior year
looks to be exciting and it never hurts to
be the oldest ones on the totem pole. Just
think: Ihave successfully picked a major,
managed to finish all of my GenEds
without taking any classes I hated and
could still write a thesis. I still get one
more year of “playing” adult in my off
campus house and attending class instead

of a job from which I could get fired from

for being 5 minutes late.

Soto sum up: I am thankful to not
yet have Senioritis as I am not yet a Senior
and I am going to miss my dear friends a
lot when they venture forth into that world
that thankfully remains somewhat foreign
to me.

 

Position Announcement:
Possible opening for an under-

graduate admissions counselor

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Ofﬁce of

Admissions wishes to announce a possible open-
ing for an Admissions Counselor. Responsibili—
ties include extensive recruitment travel, con-
ducting student interviews and group inforrna—

tion sessions, and evaluating applications.

Strong communications skills and demonstrated
organizational abilities are expected. The suc-

cessful candidate will be willing and able to work
as part of a highly successful admissions team,

yet will be capable of creative self—direction.
Some evening and weekend work is necessary.
Candidates should be willing to commit to two
years in the position.

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid
driver’s license. All interested candidatesshould
submit a cover letter and resume, including two

references. All materials should be sent to

Jonathan Webster, Assoc. Dean of Admis-
sions, Ofﬁce of Admissions, Lexington, VA,
24450.

)9,

 

‘v

~ 4

1.

>~

 
 

MONDAY, MAY 23, 2005

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

arts&|ile

French p ay
absurd, but
charming

By Dane Boston‘
STAFF WRITER

Audiences Wednesday and
Thursday nights were treated to a truly
surreal experience. French 342
presentedgLe Jardin de délices by
Fernando Arrabal and the two play
series Jacques ou la Soumission and
L’avenz'r est dans les ouefs by Eugene
Ionesco.

The plays took a brief glance into
the development of French theatre after
the discoveries of Sigmund Freud and
amidst the confusion and moral
bankruptcy felt by many young artists
in the interim between the world wars.

In the first play, Arrabal’s Le
Jardin, an extraordinary cast of
characters bring to symbolic life the
desires and conflicts of the main
character.

Altemately played to perfection
by Paten Hughes and Kathryn George
(and in her childhood form by Maria
Blackwell), the sensual, artistic Lais
experiences a strong desire to break
free from the constraints of her unique
childhood. Lais was raised by nuns and
oscillates between outright rebellion
from their strict rules and a desire to
reclaim her lost innocence.

The rebellion manifests itself
particularly clearly in Lais’s argument
with God, during which she decides to
follow her ambitions to fruition, and
her innocence is brought to life by a
helpless ﬂock of sheep she must feed
and defend.

The outrageous panoply of
characters that Lais confronts in her
journey through life include the nun
Miharca, played by Alex Mahoney,
Zénon the malleable, gentle savage
played by Robert Armstrong, and the
enchanting prince—charming who
carries his heart in a curio cabinet
strapped to his chest, played by John
Harcus.

This exceptionally strong
supporting cast makes more lucid the
many abstract concepts communicated
in the ‘play. Added to their numbers is
the rotating corps of broadcasters and
talk show hosts which embodies the
empty consrunerism of the modern age.

All three plays complement each
other exquisitely, and were performed
ﬂawlessly. The accents of the actors
and actresses convinced this very
average French student, and the
enthusiasm and conﬁdence with which
each and every participant played his
or her part was refreshing.

Bravo to the French 342 class
and director Domnica Radulescu and
hearty thanks for bringing a little
absurdity to Washington and Lee.

    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphlne Road
Rapliine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 0 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yarns, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Callforworksliopszchssiilorrnation.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunton
On [-81 /I-64 at exit 205. Raphtne. 4rnc'les west on
Route 606. Raphine KM [M/Ir/M a working
farm that ojfcrs4J«PlCK" opportunities for fresh
fmit when in season.

lites -sat 10:00. 5:00, Wed until 8:00
mm 

 

By Emily Hulen
LAYOUT EDITOR

hough it may have
taken the audience a
while to get the hang
of the Shakespeare-
like dialogue, the cast
of “The Tamer
Tamed” had won the
hearts (and, more
importantly, the laughs) of every
theatergoer by the end of the show.

The play itself is a sexually charged
and quick witted battle of the sexes, which
ultimately allows the feminists to take the
upper hand.

At some point, the storyline
becomes unbelievable — perhaps when all
the women in the entire city revolt against
their husbands? .

The plot takes the same predictable
twists over and over again and ends
abruptly without much explanation as to
the “why” and “how” that it all worked
out.

The director’s notes in the program
request forgiveness for this ending,
admitting the faults and arguing that “all’s
well that ends well.” Sorry, but that just
doesn’t offer much comfort after a less-
than—satisfying wrap to the plot.

Just the same, the show managed
to keep us entertained with the ridiculous
escapades that would have made you feel

   
 

like a giddy child again, were it not for

the strongly suggestive script.
On the whole, the acting was

convincing — I have no complaints‘-other ‘

that one or two need to lose the modern
vocal inﬂections.

Senior Victoria Stanham proved a
perfect match for the strong-willed Maria,
who manages to connect with the
audience by putting everyone at ease and
interacting freely with them. Her
performance was full of surprises, and she
earned every laugh with her exaggerated
expressions.

Charles Barbour, the tamed
Petruchio himself, delivers another high-
energy performance that has become
typical of his roles so far this year.

Dr. Jew and cast pull Off an amazing
show that keeps us laughing

A STEVEN MARINOS / F-Ho'ro Emma
Rowland (Michael Wagoner) tries to win back the love of
Livia (Ligia Abreu) after she takes up the feminist cause
with other rebellious wenches in “The Tamer Tamed.”

Ruth Esponda’s Bianca stands up

well as the independent leader of the
wenches, effortlessly offering the ideal
amount of both poise and authority to the
character.

Ligia Abreu and Michael Wagoner
play the forbidden lovers, who bring in
an entirely new melodramatic aspect to
what had until that point been mostly quick
wit.

It’s a well—timed shift that lets our
brains rest a little and feeds us some cheap
but gratifying laughs.

But the collective castfs chemistry
absolutely made the play.

Every member of the audience
could easily see the actors were enjoying
themselves up there, especially in scenes
where the women hold a revolution and
resort to hurling fruit and pillows at the

, men from the balcony high above.

The details of costumes and props
were meticulously designed, and the set
was exquisite and quite convincing as a
Venetian terrace, complete with a genuine
fountain.

Interesting choice of theater, too —
at first, I was a little surprised they didn’t
use the Keller for its size. But after seeing
it, the Johnson proved an ideal choice for
its versatility and intimacy, which aided
the connection with the audience that the
actors sought to achieve.

Director Kimberly Jew presents this
show as her directorial debut on the W&L
stage. Her resume explains a lot — she’s
got some notable experience under her
belt, and it shows in her handiwork.

At the same time, Jew should be
commended for allowing her actors the
freedom to take risks and liberties with
their roles. They all seemed to come into
their own for this performance, making the
audience feel as comfortable during the
show as the actors seem on the stage.

I certainly recommend the show -
deﬁnitely a success for Dr. Jew and the
cast, which rescued a less-than—perfect
script with a great set and outstanding
chemistry.

Catch the 8:00 p.m. performance in
the Johnson theater at Lenfest on either
Mon. May 23 or Tues. May 24.

 

 

 

3% CASH $$$

sss CASH sss
$$$ CASH $$$

for the summer!  

End of year. ..last chance

BOOK BUYBACK

Cnsssssrosrs Lobby
szos  5:t.ro ;;p.ns.  
was may 23*‘ '.s%::2ss.v sets May 2?“
Sat: "May 23*‘
{jl~{t:(}<} sari.  ﬁziﬁfﬁ :;3.r3';._’j:

Mess May El??? m:s..:. ’E7‘i.i"§3 May 3 lat

.§§ls:?:::*eirse up an 5€.3%- faryesxr £«!é¥¢‘3£§ Zs:3sr§£.sf
ssesge tease» seiasoi §im*s'z more ans-eri sestsszf

yszsr
Washington. sad -§.$e&'
§.%ssE*sessi‘ty Store

‘wisésesyms success’ ass" serge exams, east ewzgsatafestesssi as ass cites: of ‘$3

 

  

 
   

THE RING-TUM PHI

word

 

’MONDAY, MAY 23, 2005

A question or

ByHughTrout
THE FISHERMAN

While this might be my last article
and is the end of my freshman year, I refuse
to write that “reﬂecting upon the year”
article because anytime you stop and focus
on the past you distract yourself from the
far more important future.

And I feel like the future holds a lot
of great possibilities: ﬂying cars, no more
Star Wars films, and my own personal
dream of Jéigermeister vending machines
on street corners.

W&L, despite the bitching from
everyone (I am guilty of this about certain
newly enacted policies as well, so I am
not absolving myself from blame) about
how the school is being destroyed, has a
great deal of progress and improvement
ahead.

First off, because of a whole new
and great season of informal rush will be
here next fall, I will have another shot at
finally proposing to the lead singer of
Snackbar Jones and avoiding her
boyfriend, who is also in the band.

I feel like I have a lot to offer:
young, good looking, and can make an
amazing Easy Mac whenever she asks for
it. Keep your fingers crossed for me.

I also hope that maybe Fancy dress
next year can have a better theme. In fact,
if we are being truly candid, I think we
should get rid of the actual event. This
may seem like a horrible idea, but hear me
out.

Everyone ends up having way more
fun at the pre-parties and post-parties, and
the event itself is more a chore or
obligation to go to legitirriize the whole
formal attire and “fancy dress.”

However, what if we all just
pretended that fancy dress was happening
but really never bothered to spend the
money and throw the event?

In other words, it could just be one
of those things W&L people talk about but

 two for you

don’t really do, like the speaking tradition.
That way people wouldn’t feel guilty when
they get blackout and don’t ever go. And
the kind of stuff we could do with that
money could be pretty cool (“Lexington,
Virginia: Home of W&L and the largest
slip-n—slide in the world.” Ever wanted to
go hear a speaker at Lee Chapel but just
didn’t have the energy to walk? Take the
slip—n-slide).

But beyond Fancy Dress’s future, we
should call into question the future of other
school traditions and institutions. What
new buildings will be added to our lovely
campus (may? I suggest a library that
doesn’t make me feel as if I have been sent
to prison every time I actually build up the
dedication to read a book)?

What message will be delivered to
next year’s entering class as to what the
true meaning of being a W&L student is?
What will become of Jeb Brooks?

All these questions loom in the back
of the minds of every W&L student and
offer great hope for making our amazingly
sweet and radical school even doper.

And most of all, let us all hope that
just as the future may allow the United
States to repair it’s image to the rest of the
world and restore good relations, so too
can W&L students convince townies not
to hate us as much as they do, or at least
not to try and gun me down in their cars.

Actually, that only happened once,
but it was one of those small cars that
wouldn’t have killed me but just badly,
badly wounded me which scares me even
more.

I might have broken a lot of bones,
but I would have dominated that Dodge
Neon if I didn’t have the cat-like reﬂexes
that I do. Also, let us all pray for the future
of the NHL because even though my home
town just got its own baseball team, I need
my fast and exciting hockey back.

Well folks, that is about it for me.
Thanks to everyone who helped make my
year a good one and have a great summer
and live the dream.

Ever wanted to go hear a speaker at Lee
Chapel but just didn’t have the energy

to walk? Take the slip-

n—slide.

 

-~———— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE R1No:i‘UM PHI.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. UHEEDITOR

PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITOR

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTORS

CDPY EDITORS

Theﬁhg-tLmPhiwebornesaII

TneFthg-t1nHv'spib|‘shedMaxlaysdinrigmemdergrad.atesdndyear
atWasI‘u'ngtonaridl.eeUriversity,Lexington,\ﬁrg'I'\ia.

n:eHngimPn1sanrernberoinaeMedaBoard,m/moticanbereachedai -
medaboard@v\Au.ed.i,bt.itisoIhe4wiseindeperident

Allsubmissionsmustbee-mailedtophi@wIu.eduorinIheUrtiversityCeriterr'r\aiboxby5p.m.
Fridaytoappearinﬂriefoliovvhgweelcsedﬁon.
ﬂ1eFhT1g-mmﬁiiresewastengttoedtstlxriissbrsbroaitataridlertgm.
Lelteisandoolumnsdonotneoessarily refecttheopinionof TheFi'ng-turnPhiEdIIoriaI Board.
Adverﬁsingdoesnotreﬂeottheopiniortsofllieﬁhg-axnPHorﬂsstaﬁ.
llisnevvspaperobseweswrrentowndeﬁniﬁovrsdbdandobsoenily.

TheFhg-tunPh'
Uriversityoorrrmns Room. 341
Washingonand Lee University
Lex'r‘gtrx1,\/wg‘n'a2445O
Telephone: (540)458-4060

Fax (540)458-4059

Ermi: phi@\Mu.edu

Stbscfption rate$40

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS

MARSHALL RULE
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON
ANNE FINLEY
BREE MELTON
STEVEN MARINOS
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI

ROHAN POOJARA
WOODROW FRIEND
DAN MCMENAMIN

AMANDA THOLKE
VANESSA ARNESS

An extra Early on campus

By Kristine Early
THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL

Most of you know that I’m not
the first Early to attend Washington
and Lee. What you may not know is
that I’m not the first Early to write for
the back page of the Ring Tum Phi
either. There’s a reason they call me
Early 2.0. See, my brother and I are
pretty much carbon copies of each
other. We’re both ridiculously good
looking, smart, and witty (though I
think I have an edge in all three
categories). In celebration of alumni
weekend, I have invited my brother to
help me coauthor my last article of the
year in Flav/Dub sty1e— only lproniise
that it will make sense.

So, Bryan, what’s it like to be
back in LexVegas? I know you took
your brothers down at the poker table
last Tuesday night. Sure, eight dollars
of your winnings came from my
pocket, but at least we kept it in the

family, eh?

Well, spending a week back
visiting W&L during Spring Term with
literally nothing to do has been very
reminiscent of what my previous
Spring Terms had been like... only
people are a lot nicer to you if they
haven ’t seen you for a year.

The disturbing twist has been

that for all the times you had visited

me at W&L during my four years, now
I’m the one who is introduced to
people as “Kristine Early’s brother. ”
I’m not sure if it’s so much the
continuance of a legacy or
replacement of one for the other.
Well, Bryan, what can I say?
“I’m kind of a big deal. People know
me.” I mean, besides my column I
have the best radio show on WLUR.
Too bad only three people listen. Bry,

tell me, what’s the best thing about W &
L? The beiruit toumeys? Oh, yeah. That’s
right. I forgot. You lost to me last
Wednesdaynight. Taken down by the lil’
sis. Shameful...

If there is anything worse than
losing to your little sister at beruit, it must
be having to worry about your little sister
going out, partying, and dating at W&L.
I ’ve already gotten a few grey hairs—and
I’m working on an ulcer. Fratty
experiences were a lot more enjoyable
when I was the living through/witnessing
them then hearing them second-hand from
or about my sister...

Seriously, getting the call that your
sister just broke your old fraternity ’s house
record for the number of gold fish
consumed in one evening (51!) is a
veritable grab-bag of emotions.‘
bemusement, bewilderment, pride, fear,
disbelief, anger, _ jealousy,
embarrassment... About all you can do is
shake your head.

Dating? Does that take place at
W&L? Casual hook—ups are deﬁnitely the
way to go, Bry. Getting to know someone
is way too much to ask. You should know
that. You may not have been the Ultimate
Frat Lord, but I hear you had game back

in the day. Now that you’re an old geezer '

what do you thing of the frat/srat scene?

Coming back and experiencing the
“good ole days” made me realize that: 1)
Your glory days can be imitated but never
relived 2 ) It’s probably a lot better that
way 3) It deﬁnitely would be a lot healthier
not even to try.

As for your other soul-cringing
comments, I ’m sure that there are plenty

of good-looking, intelligent, well-
intentioned guys left at W&L—-even after
Tim Smith decided to move on—that would
be more than willing to escort you to box
socials, poetry readings, and even the
occasional demolition derby. Barring
that, I ’m glad that you will be working
with nuns this summer... perhaps a bit of
their austerity will rub oﬂ on you.
Man, I really am going to miss

«sketchy dj parties this summer. Maybe I

can get the nuns to live it large, take off
their habits, and get down to “Like a
Prayer.” That would definitely be a party
worth hiring Party Pics for. Anyway, I
think we’re running out of space, big bro.
Before you do the honor of closing my
last article of the ‘O4-‘O5 school year, I
just want to give a shout out to all the
seniors. Good luck, boys and girls. Don’t
trip on the platform June 2"“. That would

M be embarrassing... and very Early-like,

don’t you think, Bry?

After a year gone-by, I can tell that
everybody that although post-college life
is not nearly as fun or exciting, it has its
own set of perks. .. I just can ’t think of any
at the moment. As most of you already
know, nobody who hasn’t been a part of
W&L will ever understand your
experience here. Take what was special,
leave your regrets with the wadded-up
bundle of clothing you leﬁ‘ at thejsteps of
Newcomb when you streaked the
Colonnade and let your fond memories
guide you back whenever you need a
refresher

Well said, Bryan. You didn’t think
I’d actually let you have the last word
though, did you? Of course not.

See, my brother and I are pretty much carbon
copies of each other. We’re both ridiculously F
good looking, smart, and witty.

 

Going home to do list

Breka reminds you what to do before you head home

By Bree Melton and Eka Akpakip
BREKA

It’s the end of spring term,
just one more week...so how are you
going to spend your last couple of days
on this campus before going off to your
summer jobs? It had better be pretty
dominant because you know Breka’s
going to be living it up. We have high
expectations for this campus. So here
are our top ten things to do before the
term is over.

10. Of course, there’s the
quintessential “streak the Colonnade.”
If you haven’t done that, well you just
haven’t lived. If you need to change it
up a bit, you can always streak the
Ruins. But make sure the ground isn’t
wet and security doesn’t catch you.
Hiding naked in the bushes...well
really would security actually chase a
naked person? I mean, catching a
naked person would require
tackling...that’s just not a pleasant
image. So go for it, in the dead of night
or while the sun is still high, you only
have a week left. What do you have to
lose?

9. I don’t know if you got this
from our previous article, but KISS A
SENIOR. Kiss two, or five. . .two each
day...they’ll be gone in a week. So if
you’ve got that senior crush, now is the
time to go for it. And really, they’re
not going to complain! If you’re shy,
you could just go for that sly smack on
the toosh. Not as daring, but very
enjoyable. And no, Joe Harouni, this
is not just for you. But ladies, he’s
always up for anything and plus — it’s
easy to walk back home from Gaines.

8. Skip class. If you haven’t
done it at all this year. . .well you have
a problem. It’s called being a nerd.
Redeem yourself. The sun is shining,
the birds are singing, and most of you
are pretty pasty (special note from Eka,
not all of us can have naturally dark
skin) — so go get some sun!

7. Speaking of sun, where’s the

perfect place to get some of those
wonderful UV rays? Goshen, duh. If you
haven’t yet been to this W&L pastime, you
need to get yourself out there! Or to
Panther Falls — House Mountain, even.
Now is the time to enjoy the weather while
celebrating nature and beer - the best
combination ever. You might even want
to take along that special—just-for-this-
week someone. They could use some sun,
too.

6. Haven’t found that special-just-
for-this-week someone? Well, you could
try a new frat. By this time in the year,
you’ve established the places at which you
like to hang out. You know the guys there
really well, and most of them you probably

wouldn’t hook up with. I mean, they’re '

practically your brothers. So now’s the
time to branch out and check out a new
frat. Or if the Greek scene isn’t your style,
check out “THE SWEET.” They’re
certiﬁed gangsta.

5. Wild card. This is your chance to
be creative because, while you should take
most of your cues from Breka, we want
y’all to be individual and think for
yourselves. It must be something crazy,
maybe slightly dangerous, possibly even
something that would make us raise our
eyebrows - and that’s pretty intense". For
instance, one of our friends went skydiving
this weekend. While this is a little cliché,
it’s still an adrenaline rush, and that counts.
So be spontaneous and have some fun!

4. Another way to have some fun
and achieve carnpus-wide renown is to join
the Colonnade Club. You know what we
mean...hook up in every building on the
Colonnade. This is a bit more of a
challenge than just streaking the
Colonnade because it takes time and
plarming - and a partner. Teamwork is key
in achieving this goal. You may even want
to have two partners so they can switch
off, and no one will get tired. I mean, you
might, but it will be well worth it. If the
Colonnade isn’t your style, you could go
for the Lenfest challenge. The most
impossible challenge ever, but the theatre
majors aren’t daunted. Of course, there is

the Five-Star General. Less commonly
known and soon to disappear as the new
sorority makes its way onto campus. Any
man that can join this elite group should
be commended. If you want detail plans
on how to accomplish this...ask Breka.
While we’ve yet to accomplish it,
(hinthint) we’ve thought it through.

3. We now command you to drink.
Everyday, everywhere. I mean don’t feel
pressured, it’s only a suggestion. And
really, we’re not talking about
alcohol. . .are we? Well maybe just a little.
If there isn’t a lawn party, make your own.
Case of beer plus grass equals lawn party. .
It’s just that simple.

2. In this final week, one of the most
important things to do is tie up loose ends.
You don’t want to leave for the summer
with clothes that aren’t yours and cell
phone numbers you never use. So make
room for summer clothes and numbers.
You know I will. For example: that boy
who you got with in the fall, but you never
called? BALETED. (note: Strongbad
reference). There are non—awkward and
awkward ways to return clothing. One
thing that is not suggested is to go into
someone’s room, ﬁnd them absent, then
think it would be wise to lock the door,
put porn on their computer, and attempt
to run away. -This is not productive, but is

‘ entertaining. So. . . .what is the number one

thing to do before this term ends?

1. BREKA. Heck yes, alot. Ifyou
don’t know us, meet us. If you do know
us, kiss us. You’ve wanted to all year, we
know. Now is your chance. Special deal,
one time only, and Eka won’t slap you.
And if you’re lucky, there might be a Breka
sandwich involved. And when we say
Breka sandwich, we’re talking about
hugging, of course.

If you are daunted by these tasks,
don’t worry, we too are yet to accomplish
all of these things. What is most important
is that you try. But if someone does
accomplish all of our top ten, we will be
happy to share a cold one with you. After
all, a one that is not cold is scarcely a one
at 

,>~

 

