 
   

1

A

2”}.
ill‘ ﬁ

 Services provide off-campus studentsltemet access  

I

 ’b'*7}2;."I-35
_ 0\‘S'3'.L
. \i.‘W—‘r
1 WW '2‘\’INSIDE

'l’.=I.~  {- ‘1'1‘,~\2 l’=i=

Sr>E.cTAL FD Issue
Exgrrr .\ l.1(iH“l"liR, l_l:'..\.\f f
..\il~';\\V‘S—lril:.'..-'r_\".' P/4.:

NEXT: WEEK

I...( it JK t2t;T H m

   

’ FANCY DRESS

' 'mE 3
.~'\ERn.. ’l'i'(‘>(*»z,>. .lsst.7r:

 

 
 

Wnsarscron AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG*TUM

 Lake talks to terrorism

 

_ MEI} l‘l~]UL—\M/Tll€R1l1g-ttlni Phi
DANCE WITH THE DRAGON. Ryan Owen and Mavia Brown  to the tunes of Big Ray & the Kool Kats. For more Fancy Dress pictures see pages 4, 5.

JAMEE ts  
‘.”~.‘J..’5Ht:"«lO?“~. ‘TM 3 ‘=11: -.%**3ﬂ"l'5“"*-‘W’

. ,9,‘

 

Irxiriax
(;)T>m<>Ns 3
\X7’&I_..T1=*1'=: 5
SPt‘)RTS 7
G N<_>T‘i>-is‘ :2
34/ 7 2

I\«l0T\fl>\‘;', i\l.tiz«:.;~i 25, 

Former national security adviser addresses globalization and war on terrorisms

BY PETER DJALALIEV
l?\'TERNET EDITOR

Dr. Anthony Lake, former National Security Ad-
viser to President Bill Clinton, spoke Tuesday on ter-
rorism and other security-related issues.

Lake placed special emphasis on cyber—crime,
especially in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. His Lee Chapel address also dwelled on a
political life and the games one must play, a conver-
sation continued at an informal discussion at the fol-
lowing Alumni House reception.

“If you support ideas A, B, C, D, E and F, you have
to carefully choose which ones you support more
heavily,” Lake said. “For example, if you choose to sup-
port E, which may be a rather controversial measure,
then you could lose the election and thus your ability to
support causes A, B, C, D, and F. It also works the same
way for the other causes: there are always drawbac .”

This analogy was applied to the war on terrorism,
where Lake observed President George W. Bush and his
administration battling opposing factions on issues such
as airport security. Many Republicans strongly opposed

federalizing air screeners workforce, preferring well-regu-

lated private companies better suited to screening pas-
sengers. However, faced with heavy Democratic (and
some Republican) opposition to this view, President Bush
later backed down and persuaded Congressional Repub-
licans to agree to federalize airport security jobs, pres11rn-
ably in the hope that on other issues—such as immigra-

tion control-—Democrats would be more amenable and
less likely to oppose controversial measures.

Lake’s proposal in the context of overall voter
support for controversial measures is voter educa-
tion. He believes that only with an informed citizenry
can support for controversial measures be less po-
litically dicey. When asked by this reporter how that
relates to Washington and Lee students, he replied,
“My central point during the speech is that the war
on terrorism will go on for a long time. Decisions that
we make now will affect us all later on. The more we
think about and debate these ideas ourselves, the
better off we will be down the road.”

When asked about his views on the present state
of the war on terrorism, particularly in regard to Paki-
stan and the U.S.’s support for its military ruler, Gen.
Pervez Musharraf, Lake’s response was equally di-
rect. “A nightmare situation for us is the overthrow of
Musharraf by Islamic fundamentalists in Pakistan, who
would then be in control of Pakistan’s nuclear weap-
ons,” he said. “It is important that the U.S. supports
Musharraf in politically sensitive ways.”

Lake’s reference to the nightmare situation of
Musharraf’s overthrowisinlinewiththetherneofhislatest
book, Six Nightmares, in which he outlines six potentially
real scenarios, in which the world is engulfed by terror.

In light of Lake’s claim that the war on terrorism is
far from over, the need for the voter education that Lake
spoke of becomes more apparent, as more and more
measures to counteract terrorism are enacted.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

most distinguished American
scholars of Islam, lectures in Lee
Chapel at 7 pm this evening on
“Political Islam: Radicalism, Revo-
lution or Reform?”

“He has written about many
topics in modem Islam and he is
studying the most inﬂuential think-
ers of the past 50 years,” said Reli-
gion Professor Richard Marks.
“Few other people who have trav-
eled over the Muslim world: he has
a a worldwide perspective.”

John Esposito, one of the»

Esposito is a professor of reli-
gion and international affairs and
of Islamic studies at Georgetown
University.

His talk is sponsored by the
W&L departments of religion and
political science.

A consultant to the Department
of State as well as corporations, uni-
versities, and the media worldwide,
Esposito specializes in Islam, politi-
cal Islarn and the impact of islarnic
movements from North Africa to
Southeast Asia. He has served as
president of the North American
Middle East Studies Association

International expert on Islam visits

oand the American Council for the
Study of Islamic Societies. He is Vice
Chair of the Center for the Study of
Islam and Democracy.

Esposito, who is editor—in-
chief of the four—volurne Oxford En-
cyclopedia of the Modem Islamic
World, has authored 25 books.

Esposito has lectured and orga-
nized conferences in the US and many
nations abroad, and has been inter-
viewed or quoted in The Wall Street
Joumal, TheNew York Tmes, Zhe Wash-
ingtonPost,CNN,ABCNightline, CBS,
NBC, and the BBC, as well as Europe
and and Middle Eastern media‘

I BY PETER DJALALIEV
INTERNET EDITOR

E-mail, the Internet, and chatting pro-
grams have become integral to college stu-
dents’ daily life, and W&L is no exception.
Even though the University offers a high
speed connection on campus, people liv-
ing off of it have to find alternative sources
of this service by themselves. Recent calls
to the University Computing HelpDesk re-
vealed that many off-campus students are
not fully aware of the local companies of-
fering Internet access and services.

For convenience, a summary of acces-
sible Internet services were compiled, as
well as a summary of the services and prices
offered by three Internet Service Provid-
ers operating in Lexington: Rockbridge
Global Village, Planet—Comm and LexNet.

The three types of Internet access ser- A

vices most suited for the needs of home
users are dial-up access, ISDN and DSL.
Dial—up access is the cheapest service of-
fered. The speed of the connection par-

tially depends on the speed at which the
modem can transfer data (the most com-
mon ones transfer data at 56Kb/second),
but an ordinary dial-up connection in real-
ity does not reach even half of that speed.
This service is good for email and chat-
ting, and is useful for users who do not
spend a lot of timeon the Net.

Another Internet access service suit-
able for home users is ISDN (Integrated
Service Digital Network). It is faster, but
more expensive. It requires an ISDN
adapter (which replaces the modem for dial-
up access) which the user has to purchase
separately and a special phone line. ISDN
phone line are offered by all phone compa-
nies at a rate little (or a lot, depending on
the phone company) higher than the rate
for a normal phone line. An advantage is
that the phone line can be used for Internet
connection and phone calls at the same
time, which saves a little money on phone
bills. ISDN connections have capacities
of 64Kb/sec and 128 Kb/sec, but in real life
the connection a user gets is much less.

This service is more expensive, but is faster
and is suitable for users who do more work
with the Internet and, therefore, demand
better quality.

The best Internet access service which
is still relatively affordable for home users
is DSL (standing for Digital Subscriber
Line). DSL users also need a special mo-
dem and a special, more expensive phone
line. Just as ISDN, the phone line can be
shared for Internet ‘connection and phone
calls at the same time. The prices for DSL
internet access are high, but the connec-
tion speed starts from 256Kb/sec (again,
this capacity cannot be actually reached)
and goes up. This service is suitable for
users who transfer large quantity of data
and demand a really high quality.

Internet connection is essential for
many people today, but not all of them are
familiar with the services they can choose
from. The choice of which type of Internet
access to use depends on the needs and
the amount of money a user wants to spend
on his Internet connection.

infographic by Matthew McDermott/ The Ring-tum Phi

Fm 2 presidential press secretaries to speak

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Former White House press secretaries Marlin
Fitzwater and Joe Lockhart will bring The West Wing, the
acclaimed NBC series for which they are consultants, to
Washington and Lee University Wednesday, March 27.

Their talk, which is open to the public without charge, is at
7:30p.minI_eeChapel.TheeventissponsoredbyKappaSigma,
the Contact Committee and Young America’s Foundation.

“I think you can expect an interesting discussion by
two people who have been there and who lqrow how the
White House works, how the press works, (and) how the
presidency works,” said Mr. Fitzwater in an exclusive inter-
view with The Ring-tum Phi. “We’ll also try to bring a little
humor to the evening, so it should be fun.”

Fitzwater, the only press secretary appointed by two
presidents — Ronald Reagan and Bush, =
his successor —— served as the White
House’s public relations strategist for
nearly a decade.

He handled some of the most sensi-
tive issues the country has faced in recent
years, including the Gulf War and the end
of the Cold War.

FITZWATER

_ Lockhart served under President Clinton, overseeing
issues mundane and momentous.

   

    

Appointed in 1998, Lockhart resigned as press
secretary mid-term in the Clinton administration and
did so as the House of Representatives opened its
impeachment inquiry in the wake of the Clinton-

Lewinsky sex scandal. He soon after
. was named by\Oracle, the software
maker, as its senior vice president for
refining and communicating Oracle’s
business strategy. I
In their W&L talk, the two press
secretariesiwill discuss their con-
sulting collaborations for The West
Wing, whose plots are based on real-world issues
facing the White House. The show focuses on
how the president’s staff handles, both good and
bad, a broad range of crises, while also trying to
cope with their own personal issues.

“We’ve done it a couple times and I’ve always
enjoyed it,” said Fitzwater of the upcoming discus-
sion. “Joe and I come from different political per-
spectives, but we’ve both been press secretary to
the same ravenous press corps, so we share many

'1
LOCKI-{ART

‘of the same insights and feelings about how the

White House works and how the press corps works.”
Questions from the audience will also be enter-
tained by the two speakers.

i
i
i
‘ .
i
I
i
i

l
n
i
i
i
i
i

Soldiers’ near great

‘We Wer

   
  

courtesy imdb.com
TALEY. Gibson plays Lt. Col. Moore in
‘We Were Soldiers.’

In late l965, in a grassy valley of the
central highlands of SouthV1etnam, a group
of 400 American cavalry soldiers fought
the ﬁrst battle of the Vietnam War. VV1th
little knowledge ofthe enemy or his tactics.

the 7".‘ cavalry defeated a force of nearly
2000 North Vietnamese veterans. We Were
Soldiers, directed by Randall Wallace, is a
tribute to the courage of soldiers and the
bonds of brotherhood built between them
War pictures tend to grab your
emotions and never let go. We Were Sol-
diers is no exeeption. Powerful and mov-
ing, the ﬁlm leftme stunned and wonder-
ing about the true meaning of war.
Despite its merits, how-
ever, We 
ing something. It is close to
greatness, but not quite there.
Despite strong performances from
Greg Kinnear as a helicopter pilot seeing
the horrors of war for the ﬁrst time and
Sam Elliot as a grizzled, hurnorless Ser-
geant, the ﬁlm relies on its stars, Mel
Gibson(LtColHalMoore)andCris Iﬂein
(2nd Lt. Jack Geoghegan) to pull at the

    

emotions of the audience. Despite their"

star power, Gibson and Klein seem ﬂat in
their roles, and neither one really seems
right for their role.

The main problem I had with the

  

ﬁlnr is that spends too much time mak-
ing speeches instead of showing the
true sacrifices of the men.

In one scene, we see a dying soldier
trying desperately to hold on. As soon
as we start to care about the soldier and
his plight, we are swept back to Gibson,
who makes a speech about the impor-
tance and history of the event.

The ﬁlm is littered with situations

——»~— just like this one.

_‘FRONT PAGE FEATURE It is too rhetorical,

:0 and the characters
 - seem too aware of
their importance in history.

It may have been better to show
the audience the sacriﬁces of the men
instead of tell them.

Although the message of We
Were Soldiers is aniimportant one, the
way the message was presented fell
way short of its potential. We Were
Soldiers is worth seeing, but it can-
not be called a truly great film. It
comes close to greatness, but, disap-
pointingly, it falls short.

 

PAGE 2

Pill
STAFF EDITORIAL
Ladies: Watch your wardrobe

Gone are the days when a trembling fresh-
man would be brought before the black-gowned
magistrates of the Assimilation Committee for
the unpardonable sins of forgetting his beanie
or of wearing white after Labor Day.

But while we may not have conventional ,
dress, we still have conventions of decency. '

On the hill, in the classroom, some cloth-
ing distracts students and professors from
learning.

One of our editors noticed a particularly
egregious example earlier in the week. She was
sitting in math class when an unconvincing
blonde hopped into the room with the rigid, fal-
tering steps of one whose legs can’t be more
than a foot apart. This blonde was squeezed
like toothpaste into a tube top that looked like it

‘ was held up only by surface tension and force
of will.

What’s the purpose of dressing like this? It
isn’t comfortable, and it can’t help one learn,
unless one’s hoping to push an elderly profes-
sor into a heart attack.

There are simple steps that can prevent a
classroom from tuming into a seraglio.

One is the strapless bra rule——any outﬁt
that requires one should probably be left on the
rack at the Hoochie-Momma Emporium. In-
structive as it might be to pre-chiropractics, the
sight of exposed vertebral colurrms is not a nec-
essary adornment to Front Campus or Lee
Chapel.

Don’t get us wrong. The Phi doesn’t want
women shoved underneath burqas or wimples.

But surely feminists don’t believe that tight
clothes liberate women: is it freedom to be pan-
dering to sexual appetite?

Men can be guilty of poor clothing choices
too, though usually out of laziness rather than
ulterior amorous aspirations. However, un-
shaven, unwashed fraternity brothers differ
from acceptable campus norms in a much less,
ahem, noticeable manner than do adventurously-
clad young ladies. ‘

Let’s, make sure that the Colonnade does
not resemble an armex to Bourbon Street or
pre-Giuliani Times Square.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

“FD? WHO THE HELL GOES TO
THAT?”

—ANGRY, DATELESS PHI EDITORS RUMI-
NATING ON A STAFF EDITORIAL TOPIC

THE RIN(§-TUM PHI

 

PINIONS

"r5I<L‘I’I'”l. 1\IA\xA\*

OPINIONS EDHOR

EMAII; IqRwANB@wILIEDU
MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2002

Penna. sanitizes Internet for users’ protection

Legislature begins battle against internet child pornography with ill-considered, virtually

The end of the Internet as we know it is near. At least
that is what you could conclude from the past few week’s
developments, one of which will undoubtedly set a dan-
gerous model for ‘Net regulation and censorship.

English news website The Register reported that
Pennsylvania representatives passed a bill requiring
Internet service providers (ISPs) to block customer ac-
cess to child pornography or face hefty fines. Hailed as a
great step forward by Gov. Mark Schweiker, the law will be
in effect is less than a week.

The Keystone State, in its inﬁnite wisdom, produced
nothing more than a palliative, a shabby
and ill-conceived excuse for genuine leg-
islation. The only point the new act will
prove is that Pennsylvania, while appear-
ing to lead the crusade against ﬁlth on
the web, has an understanding modern technology no
better than your average cave—dweller.

Granted, the government had it heart in the right place
by trying to restrict the distribution of kiddie porn, an
unquestionably noble pursuit.

Yet by drafting a law that imposes fines of up to
$30,000 per offense without taking any consideration of
how the offending material can be blocked, our friends
from north of the Mason-Dixon line issued a startling har-
binger of what may be in store for the Intemet’s future if
the government gets its hands on it.,

Technology experts are at a loss as to how to block
particular addresses, as software that can handle the job
has yet to be developed. That and the fact that the state
attorney general’s ofﬁce is responsible for monitoring the
ever—expanding web and issuing a list of inappropriate
links. ‘

In other words, every week or so, state ISP’s will re-
ceive a list of useless, outdated addresses as thick as a
phonebook that will be of little assistance in a world where
site locations can change by the moment.

I can see it now: government workers will have to
begin busying themselves futilely chasing every last un-
seemly webpage in the world, every ISP owner will huddle
in their offices and gnaw their ﬁngernails for fear of being
run out of business by a mountain of penalties, and worst

  

‘ of all, sick creeps will continue to swap pictures and vid-


ﬂ7_Al_\Il)RE\lV LATIMER ‘O5

eos_ over Instant Messenger, IRC and other means. No
one wins.

As Thomas Greene aptly noted in his Register article,
“It’s pure self-congratulatory legislation with no appre-
ciation of the practicalities, and no hope of accomplishing
anything worthwhile.” Even worse, it places the burden
of punishment not on the true offenders but on business-
men who would have nothing to do with the garbage of
the Internet if they could.

To put it mildly, the incompetency that Pennsylvania’s
elected representatives displayed scares me. My fears are
compounded when Ilook beyond the
hot—button issue of kiddie porn and con-
sider the implications of the bill’s word-
ing when applied to other issues. Es-
sentially, what the government has done
is make its ﬁrst value judgment of the web’s content and
made great strides to censor it.

When you take into account the war on terrorism, it
isn’t hard to imagine that another state could draft a sim-
lar bill barring its citizens from viewing terrorist-related
information electronically. From there the government
could take it upon itself to render more and more sites
illegal by trying to direct which websites can legally make
their way to personal computersl

Perhaps that example is too extreme. But even so, this
latest ISP law sets a precedent of Pandora’s box propor-
tions. First Amendment concerns abound.

Another recent event evidences another movement
that, while it may be less disturbing constitutionally, spells
the demise of the Internet as the American public has
come to expect it.

The issue regards last week’s report that Yahoo! has
told its members that they have to pay for e-mail services
starting April 24. What used to be free will now be worth
$29.99 a year, and those who depended on free e-mail will
either have to change addresses quickly or open their
wallets.

This is by no means an isolated case. The net cover-
age journal TheEnd0fFree.com logs every instance that a
company begins charging for what was originally compli-
mentary. Visit the site and you’ll find information about
how The Times of London has plans to bill foreigners for

LONG ARM: These bruisers might soon turn up at your Internet Service Provider when Penna.’s new law proves its ineffectiveness.

Letter to the Editor

useless mountain of new police powers

_ (I)UKIEZsY\WlVL(I}l\F.'£(D\l
ALL SMILES: Penna. Gov. Mark Schweiker was thrilled to sign
House Bill No. 1333, providing for ﬁnes of up to $30,000.

reading their articles, CNN will no longer allow visitors to
view their online videos without a subscription and
Webster’s Online will make users pay for access to their
dictionary.

I’m not making a case for worldwide ‘Net socialism
where everything must be as free as the air we breathe.
Anyone can grasp the fact that no one would develop
any worthy content under those pretenses and that the
owners of websites have every right in the world to charge
whatever they want for their content.

For instance, the Education Testing Service’s plan
to give students an early peek at their SAT scores for a
fee sounds reasonable to me. After all, that information
is only valuable to anxious students who cannot wait
another moment until it’s available while those who are
more patient can get their numbers for free by mail a few
days later.

Just think if ESPN. com debited your account a quar-
ter for each score you check. While no plans have been
discussed, it’s not out of the realm of possibility.

What perturbs me more is that consumers all over the
country will be grossly inconvenienced, if not cheated,
out of Internet essentials like e-mail and weather. That
concept of the web being the world’s library becomes null
and void the moment you can’t surf without paying your
way first.

And for you out there who are troubled about the
plight of the poor, you should take note that the great

- digital democratizing force that we’ve all heard so much

about will become yet another playground of the rich if
things progress as expected.

Maybe my fears of a future where states had j urisdic—
tion over what can and cannot be seen aren’t justiﬁed.
Maybe my worries of a purely pay—your—way web are over-
blown. '

At the same time, every journey must begin with that
first step. During these last few months we may have
caught a glimpse of those first few tentative small moves
toward a future where we’ll be forced to experience the
Internet in a way wholly different from what we know
today. It would be a shame if the American public would
allow that to happen without putting up a ﬁght.

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Matthew B. McDemiott
Katie J . Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Drew Latimer
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell
Alison M. Ii-inrdad'
Mary E. Guy

J eb Brooks

Meg Fer-rara

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondaysduring the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defun-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi ,
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
' Street Address.‘ 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

Minorities attempt to assimilate

Dear Editor,

In response to Irnran Naeemullah’s ar-
ticle published in the March 18 issue, “Fo-
rum exposes bigotry and victirrrization of
false diversity forces,” I must first state
that it is the ideals of those who share his
view on diversity on campus that many
minority students are opposed to.

At the diversity forum and in his lat-
est article, Naeemullah has emphasized his
belief that admissions makes exceptions
and admits minority students who “do not
fit in.” Irnplying that because a student is a
minority he will not fit in and can neither
enjoy the benefits of a challenging cur-
riculum nor respect and uphold the honor
code that makes this institution so great is
exactly what causes minorities to be viewed
as outsiders before they make any [attempt
to “assimilate” into the W&L community
and thus causes them to stand apart from
the rest of the student body.

Everyone must acknowledge that
those [the “traditional” students] are

people who built this institution. However,
it also cannot be denied that those very
same men would have sacrificed their lives
before they saw a black person admitted
into this institution. And it is clear from the
confederate ﬂags and the confederate print
Trident shirt that some people agree with
this school of thought. That is the mental-
ity that we are up against and working to
obliterate. V

Moreover, our newly founded chap-
ter of NAACP, along with the BFA and
MSA as well as every Greek organization
and every other organization on campus is
open to every student on campus and, as
such, work to promote unity.

What bafﬂes me is that when black
students choose not to go Greek we are
promoting separatism, but I don’t see any-
one rushing to Fairfax on Tuesday nights.
Better yet, why are black students expected
to attend fraternity parties in order to pro-
mote diversity but the majority of the stu-
dent body can be absent from other func-
tions and not be accused of separatism.
Regardless of what people like to believe,

minority students do not get a great deal
of support from the student body at large
and therefore have to provide a support
system for each other.

Naeemullah believes that the mental-
ity of minorities has not changed much
since the l960’s. People operate on an un-
spoken code that states I will treat you as
you treat me. So, if you happen to run
across an “angry black” person on cam-
pus it is most likely because they have
been the victim of an injustice and there-
fore have a right to be frustrated.

I like a majority of the student body. I
have met so many warm and friendly people
regardless of whether they are the tradi-
tional sort of student or not. The problem
arises when I get overlooked, pushed away
or just plain ignored when I make efforts to
become a member of the W&L
communityand then those same people
who brush me aside tell me I’m not work-
ing hard enough to “assimilate.”

If you walked into a_ room and every-
one gave you unwelcome looks, you
would leave. If you said hello to someone

on the Colonnade and they ﬂat out ignored
you, you would be offended. If every time
you went to an activity with people that
you don’t know and they brush aside your
efforts to get to know them, you stop go-
ing and form relationships with people who
share your experience.

I’d like to see more black students wel-
come at fraternity parties and I’d like to see
more white students at MSA parties. I’d
like to see such large turnouts for events
such as evening abroad that they have to
move it to a larger location. I’d like to see
huge turnouts for artists such as Rene’ Marie
and the Contact speakers.

Until N aeemullah, and those who think
like him are truly and honestly willing to
stop being so close—rninded and become
forward—tl1inking enough to realize that, just
like everyone else, all we are tying to do is
be accepted for who we are, this campus
will be plagued by division, frustration and
be left with a great sense of want.

Sincerely,
Kaela Harmon ‘O5

 

 

“Going from FD to the
hospital and back.”
--Raphael Penteado, ‘03

 

—-Christina lnnamorato, ‘05

‘‘I don’t know. I don’t

remember much.”

 

“Dancing.”
«Catherine Torrey Stroud, ‘O5

 

“Spending an entire week-
end with my girlfrien .”

 

“Getting dressed up.”
-—Barrett Nixon ‘04

--Erik Kiewiet de Jonge, ‘O5

‘

Ir

1»

4

‘F-

 

 
 

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2002.     

Unless you’ve been living under the proverbial rock
for all of winter term, you know that the hottest topic on
campus is diversity. After attending the panel for diver-
sity on March 14 and witnessing the respective sides ar-
gue their cases, I felt the need to lend non-politicized in-

sight to the issue.

What is so obvious as to be unanimous is that W&L

is lacking when it comes to diversity. Our student body is
‘composed primarily of wealthy whites, particularly South-
ierners and males and combinations thereof. Furthermore,
it is common knowledge that even in the hardest years for
' Greek recruitment, membership in a given freshman class
‘never drops below the 60-65% level, and those years are
_ more an aberration than a trend. It is when the question of

whether this lack of diversity is a problem to be solved or

. simply part of the unique charm of this ﬁne institution that
opinions begin to differ.

Phi writer Imran Naemullah consistently argues in
his articles on diversity that the goal of W&L should not
be a highly diverse student body, but a highly merited
one. He hits the nail on the head by saying this. However,
if one compares the student body composition of W&L

with that of those institutions with higher national es-
"teem, such as those of the Ivy League, it becomes appar-
:ent that merit and diversity are not mutually exclusive
‘qualities.

It must be made clear that the issue at hand is not
achieving diversity for the sake of diversity, but provid-
ing a campus atmosphere that is attractive to the most
excellent and worthy students from all backgrounds, rather
than simply to the narrow range of types that currently
composes our student body. This is not to say that there
is something wrong with the current types. I merely assert
that as a school we would be strengthened if students of
all ethnic, religious, and socioeconomic
backgrounds were competing for and V
yearning for acceptance letters from Lex-
ington in April.

We are all concerned about how is
just how this more attractive atmosphere will be achieved.
Conservatives tend to fear that our admissions ofﬁce will
become a hotbed of the affirmative action movement, while
liberals tend to fear that the inﬂuence of tradition will stop
the movement dead in its tracks. Once again, if the respec-
tive sides are willing to compromise for the sake of a more
excellent student body, neither side has to “lose.”

One action which would help preclude the need for
special admissions policies similar to afﬁrmative action is
a reform of the school’s ﬁnancial aid program. No one
needs to be told that W&L is expensive. Though it is more
“competitively priced” than many similar private liberal
arts colleges, price is a significantly prohibitive factor for
many qualified or even admitted applicants.

While the current presidential prospectus states that
the university meets 100% of student ﬁnancial need, there
are those who qualify for aid and still fall through the
cracks. I could offer personal testimony to this point, but

    

    Oi5iiii1oNs        
Admissions, financial aid must be altered to promote diversity

 

PA§E,_3

  

GILLIAM HOUSE BLUES: The Admissions Office must step up recruiting efforts and Financial Aid must increase available scholarship dollars if such diversity is ever to grace our fair campus.

to avoid being inﬂuenced by my bias, ask someone in the
theater department about the fate of ' Sarah Garrison, a
talented theatre technical student who was forced to trans-
fer because of the Financial Aid Ofﬁce’s inﬂexibility.

The University would do well to follow the example
of Princeton. Princeton offers no academic scholarships
to entering freshmen, but meets 100% of all demonstrated
need, loan-free. A policy such as this allows an admis-
sions ofﬁce to recruit, select, and enroll the most qualiﬁed
students from all financial backgrounds.

p While on the topic of admissions, there are a few
other issues to consider. First on the agenda is the gender
bias. While this year’s freshman class was

. _: FIGHTING  an aberration due to miscalculations by

the admissions office, the school still has

2;  M a policy of admitting males at a minimum

rate of 55%. I realize this school was en-
tirely male from its founding until 1986, but is it really
necessary to enroll at least 10% more males than females
each year? What is that policy reallyidoing but denying
qualiﬁed females admission?.Besides, judging from the
number of guys who import dates for events such as Fancy
Dress, more selection is nothing to complain about.

The next issue is minority recruitment. The foremost
priority of the admissions ofﬁce should be to entice the
best students from across the nation to apply to and en-
roll at W&L. However, in order to enroll the worthiest
students, it is necessary to recruit more heavily among
those under-represented in the applicant pool. I empha-
size that this does not constitute affirmative
action. Affirmative action and discrimination both occur
when decisions are made on a basis other than
merit. Recruitment of under-represented students does
nothing more than ‘expand the applicant pool to include
qualiﬁed students who currently would make their contri-

   

 

   

Javu@meeHQ 

 

  lassical Guitar

 Aconstic Set   . .

   Monc1ay,March 25       
  To  volunteers going Nicaragua over  p
  spring break.Baked goods willbea?vai1able.i  0
    Donations appreciated.          

 

  

butions to more diversity-friendly academic heavyweights
such as the Ivy League.

What goes hand in hand with recruitment, though, is
a set of realistic recruitment goals. We must know that
possibilities may be limited due to our rural Southern loca-
tion and the role that a certain deceased Confederate gen-
eral plays in our school. This should not be used as an
excuse for a lack of diversity, but rather as a way of avoid-
ing discouragement should the demographic of W&L not
accurately represent that of the United States immediately
upon enactment of this policy.

Heavier recruitment, ‘however, will not work, if the
atmosphere of this school continues to be dominated by
wealthy white frat guys. The social system of our school
must change in a number of ways in order to provide an
atmosphere appealing to a wider range of qualified
students. This includes changes to the beloved Greek
system, both in its operation and in the role that it plays in
the social scene.

A lot of passions burn hot when changes to the Greek
system are suggested. The problem is that the Greek ma-
jority often makes one of two assumptions about the in-
dependent population. They assume that either everyone
wants to or ought to be in a fraternity or sorority, and that
somehow it didn’t work out for independents, or that in-
dependents are against the entire concept of a Greek sys-
tem and want no part whatsoever in the school’s social
scene. Neither of these statements is even remotely true.

There are independents who did not receive a bid, or
weren’t even courted by the Greek system. Many of these
are minorities and international students who might well
have enjoyed-the chance to participate in the system had
it been offered. There are individual fraternities who make
a concerted effort to reach out to these
individuals. However, the system as a whole needs to make

an effort to reach out and find a place for anyone who
wants to be a part of it.

What I see as the more crucial issue is that there are a
signiﬁcant number of individuals who either enjoy some-
times attending fraternity parties, but aren’t taken with
the system enough to warrant pledging, as well as a sig-
niﬁcant number who don’t take to the Greek system much
at all. Many of these individuals are told, in one way or
another, “If you don’t want to be a part of the Greek sys-
tem, ask yourself whether you want to be a part of W&L at
all.” It is shameful that these individuals are asked to
choose between full commitment to the Greek system and
social ostracism. This is not to say that the ostracism is
active or blatant, although sometimes it is. But it is often
similar to the passive racial prejudice which ethnic minori-
ties report— subtle actions that are enough to make the
victims feel unwanted.

The ﬁnal, and most crucial, issue in the diversity de-
bate is attitude. The make-up of this campus will not change
until the attitude of the student body does. There must be
a reduction of the apathy that has all but crippled the
speaking tradition, and a recognition that those different
from ourselves, in whatever regard, have something valu-
able to offer, or else they would not be here. The most
important acceptance does not come in the mailbox before
you arrive, but in the greetings offered on the Hill or at
fraternity parties, the reactions in class discussions, and
the late night bull/study sessions.

W&L does not exist to serve as a bastion for the white
upper middle-class, or the Southern male, or the diehard Greek
member. These groups are all valuable and should continue
to be vital parts of our institution, but as a school we should
realize that we could be so much more if we extended warm
and eager welcome to all committed to the ideals of honor
and academic excellence, regardless of background.

‘."if'.!‘l-‘lg’-’ia¥.I

_:a: RA§__oﬂer :i_g1*arictr_,i_:t Enuemrmt 4:t:a€J,fes—amz:s  expen-ks.

:n‘ae§=iae adiioiretoh I’-Bi.'21l1i.*...‘L:'A'§‘§£1(i:i10';lt:"i

"Va  wise ntian.

 ll.-Friiiaging  ' ..  

. with ntfmr lining: to think await?"

tnsuauarsf uuwmunas 4>£:1tss:w.i:st : ‘ll

:runeu.nmtnhmc;.a'pa . [imta‘aa§.. Tl"
Pmisai lrmattws  lrsiz, IfL51|ilﬁ.tl¢ 3@J§¥¥l‘ll25 rmaiut *“

ill’-F§l!1l'A1'ti1;iznéi=5ii3L ml ._

 —i1r»|k:,;z« aw‘ rmgst _Eu1i:’tir.-a.=_Fu.néE ETA!-{3£2£Fi. Mm tat. Hr. it-sin ttailriraxti was mar-'.mat.t:d. A

1

CATHERINE GLY
\X&L1FE EDHOR
MONDAY, MARCH

Ada
B
M»
m
D
VJ
m
a
F
am”
5
9
6
m

9
9

8
*1

 W&L1FE
‘ Dance with the Dragon

Q

E
F

W&L1

25, 2002

‘DAY, M»\R<:H

J}-’.REMYFRlNl\lll\J

SPORTS Errror

Emu; l?ltlNl\l.ll\:]@\XtIL'.‘
PAGE 6

Men’s lacrosse scores 4

goals in 4th quarter to win
  1 st conference contest

BY DAVE CROWELL
.\SSlST.\NT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team weathered a third-quar-

ter storm in opening Old Dominion

Athletic Conference play with a 9-5
victory over Roanoke at Wilson Field
on Saturday afternoon. V

The win moved the fifth—ranked
Generals’ record to 5-2 on the season
and started ODAC play on the right
note, especially for a team hungry to
claim a conference title and return to
the national playoffs.

‘Traditionally, Roanoke has been
one of the stronger teams, so it was
important for us to get this game,”
first-year coach Mike Cerino said. “It
was important for our conﬁdence, with
a new staff and some younger guys.
It was a real character check for us
and I was very pleased with the way
the players responded.”

The Generals got off to a quick
start on Saturday, surprising the Ma-

Mary Wa

Tlltf. Ris;<;~rru PHI

MAROONS FOILED: junior Rob Brown drives against a

 

Roanoke defender in Saturday’s 9-5 Washington and Lee win their first ODAC match of the season.

roons with three first-quarter goals
and a quick tally in the second. Junior
Rob Brown notched an unassisted
goal and sophomore Matt Fink scored

off a pass from senior Andrew Barnett
less than six minutes in.

Freshman Gavin Molinelli scored
an unassisted goal with 20 seconds

left in the first quarter, and senior John
Moore made the score 4-0 with an

unassisted goal 30 seconds into the

second quarter.

shington knocks off W&L

No. 12 Eag as hand the Generals a 14-3 loss in a Saturday non-conference contestat the Liberty Hall ﬁelds

ROUGH AFIERNOON FOR W8cI.: Sophomore Kelly Taffe, shown here in W&L’s 8-
7 win over Nazareth on March 13, and the Generals fell 14-3 to No. 12 Mary
Washington at the Liberty Hall fields on Saturday.

 
   

r\llR\ (rl.\ /ThcR1ng—t11m Ph

BY IAN R Mclnzor
SPORTS wrm-zr

After a narrow 13-8 loss to Franklin
& Marshall the previous week, the
Washington and Lee women’s la-
crosse team returned to action this
Saturday with a renewed drive.

Unfortunately, Mary Washington
scored the first 10 goals of the con-
test en route to a 14-3 win over the
Generals at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds.

Ranked No. 12 in NCAA Division
HI, Mary Washington had an explo-
sive start on Saturday.

Leading the Eagles were two jun-
iors: attacker Pam Kramer, who re-
corded two goals and four assists, and
midﬁelder Kami McNinch, who con-
tributed three goals and one assist.

Senior midﬁelder Briana Gervat also
scored a pair of goals. Playing all 60
minutes in goal, sophomore Tricia
Marino recorded 10 saves.

Despite trailing 8-0 at the half, the
Generals refused to quit playing at
their best.

“The team should be extremely
pleased with their aggressive play,”
W&L head coach Jan Hathom said.
“Their intensity, especially in the sec-
ond half, was much greater than I have
seen in the last two games combin .”

Senior midﬁelder Emily Owens tal-
lied the Generals’ ﬁrst goal with 18:06
left in the second half. Five minutes
later, freshman midﬁelder Kitt Murphy
continued the rally with a second goal.

 

 

no 'nertr:rs Raaurarsa ,

 To 

‘ll   1:: . mrmtvm Wrtmtcaa  3*’  
 mt Alarm   1 “mm” W  FEW”
lwninwaea  Carrrrerr To  Warm
wrrrrmr er Dona lwmrarr warrmrr  Anna 

rr:-as., Anna  and-,2 Afr 9 pm
Wan... atvnrir. 3, 2092 AT’ 8 PM
“mrms., Anna. 4, zone arr 8 PM

With 11:24 left in the game, senior
midﬁelder Courtenay Fisher scored
W&L’s third and ﬁnal goal.

“(Fisher’s) play was impressive
since she was just coming back from
an illness,” Hathom said.

“I was just proud that nobody
gave up when we were down,” Fisher
said. “The late rally really meant a lot.”

Against a young and talented
Eagles offense, the Generals per-
formed rather solidly on defense.

Senior defenders “Eloise (Priest)
and Julie (Carskadon) played very
well under constant pressure,”
Hathorn said.

Sophomore Joanna Perini contrib-
uted with four saves in goal for W&L.

With a 3-3 record, the No. 15 Gen-
erals remain committed to their pre-
season goals.

“By winning our conference
matchups and always keeping focused
on our next game, we hope to return to
both the ODAC and NCAA tourna-
ments again this year,” Fisher said.

As a team, the plan remains to re-
turn to the basics in preparation for
the second half of the season.

“Right now, our biggest opponent
is ourselves,” Hathom said. “If we
keep to our tough work ethic and just
concentrate on doing the little things
well, we will be able to play the better
game that we are capable of playing.”

The Generals return to action as
they host Lynchburg at 4 p.m. on
Wednesday at Liberty Hall.

I Aiu-'Gus'/TheRing-tum Phi
at \X/ilson Field. Brown scored a goal as the Generals won

W&L’s quick outburst, however,
didn’t surprise Cerino.

“I felt we could control the tempo
of the game, and we finished some
opportunities early,” Cerino said.
“We had a good game plan for their
defense.”

The Generals and Maroons then
traded goals in the second quarter,
with Fink picking up his second goal
of the day to make the score 5-1.
Roanoke responded, however, by re-
placing their goalie with 6—foot-6-inch
freshman John Cooper and adding a
score with 34 seconds remaining in
the half.

W&L’s 5-2 lead slowly evaporated
in the third quarter, with Roanoke’s
Joe Wereen scoring his second goal
of the quarter to tie the score at 5-5
with 22 seconds left.

“We were still having some trouble
shooting on that goaltender, and there
seemed to be a rash of fouls going
against us. We lost some of our of-
fensive balance,” Cerino said. “We
really couldn’t settle in, but we seemed
to ﬁnd our rhythm again.”

Roanoke errors seemed to aid the
Generals in rediscovering a rhythm.
Barnett took advantage of a bad
clearing pass to give W&L a 6-5 lead,

in DAVE Cnowau.
ASSISTANT srorrs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee golf
team shot a 312 in the W&L/ODAC
Invitational on Thursday afternoon
at the Lexington Golf& Country Club
in order to seize the team crown, beat-
ing No. 2 Guilford by three strokes.

“It was a great boost for the
team,” coach Gavin Colliton said.
“We won the tournament and it feels
great to beat the second-ranked team,
but the guys still weren’t completely
satisﬁed, which is a good sign.”

Freshman Carlos Spaht led the
Generals by winning the individual
competition, shooting a four—over-
par 75 to be the event’s medallist.

Juniors Chuck Green and Chip
Campbell followed Spaht by shoot-
ing 77 and 79, respectively. Green’s
score earned a ﬁfth-place finish,
while Campbell tied for sixth.

“The freshmen, Carlos and Ged
(Johnson), have done a great job and
have really stepped up their game,”
Colliton said. “Chip is always steady
for us, but we’re still waiting for
some of the older guys to play at a
consistent level.”

Senior Kyle Ulep rounded out the
scoring for W&L, shooting an 81.

The Generals return to competi-
tion when they travel to Salem on
April 2 for the Roanoke/ODAC Invi-
tational, the last stop before the
Emory Invitational, where a number
of the top Division III teams compete.

“We just have to put everything

together and not leave anything in

lAONDAY,lAARCH 25,2002

an advantage that they would not re-
linquish.

Moore, Fink and Molinelli rounded
out the scoring, with sophomore
Mike McNamara assisting on the last
two goals.

A key to the game, however, was
the ability of the Generals to make
defensive stops, especially in penalty
situations. Sophomore Ansel Sanders
made a number of great stops in net,
often sending back point-blank shots.

Cerino noted the growth Sanders
has shown since taking the job at the
beginning of the year.

“He has made some athletic saves.
His maturity and poise in the net are
helping our defense and his
athleticism in the clearing game has
been an asset for us,” Cerino said.
“He’s playing well.”

Sanders and the rest of the squad
will need to continue playing well,
with road games against ODAC foes
Guilford and 18th-ranked Lynchburg
this week.

W&L travels to Greensboro, N.C.,
for a 3:30 p.m. contest against the
Quakers on Wednesday afternoon.

They continue their road trip with
a 2 p.m. contest against the Hdmets
on Saturday.

the bag. Hopefully we’ll keep im-
proving, but the trip to Emory will
be key,” Colliton said.

Track runs at Roanoke

The W&L track program com-
peted at the Roanoke Invitational on
Saturday, with the men’s team tak-
ing third place out of seven teams
with 99 points and the women’s team
claiming fourth out of eight teams
with 84 points.

The homestanding Maroons
dominated the day, winning both the
men’s (148 points) and women’s (266
points) competitions.

Generals ocme Roanok, ull out 9-5 win :

iv

1’

it

1

‘*1

-5

A

Golf wins home invite 3

4

A

V

1

On the men’s side, sophomore 4

Jonathan Brimer won the 200-meter
dash in a time of 23.52 seconds.
Junior Chris Sullivan excelled in
three events, claiming second place
in the 100-meter dash (11.45) and

third—place finishes in the 200-meter 1

dash (23.84) and long jump (21’02”).

Junior Mat Rapoza took third
place in the shot put (43’03.50”) and
added a ﬁfth-place ﬁnish in the dis-
cus (111’08”).

Junior Sarah Schmidt led the way
for the women’s team by setting a
new school record in the javelin. She
won the competition with a throw of

J’

-7

l29’05”, over 10 feet farther than she ’

threw last weekend at the W&L In-
vitational.

Senior Megan Babst took second
place in the high jump by clearing
5’01.75”, and junior Burke Duncan
took third place in the 5,000-meter
run with a time of 19:01.30.

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!

Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!

1-800-234-7007

www. endlesssummertours. com

4

4'.

 

DPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 25,2002

W&L strugg

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Either the Washington and Lee baseball team is mired
in an offensive slump, or other pitchers in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference have the numbers of nearly ev-
eryone in the Generals’ lineup.

_ If you ask anyone on the W&L roster, chances are
you’re going to hear the former answer.

“Sometimes we’re pressing a little bit,” junior short-
stop Michael Hanson said. “We do have to do a better job
of jumping on them in the first inning. None of these pitch-
ers are that good, but we’re not making them pay for their
mistakes.” '

The Generals opened the week on Thursday with a 7-4
loss to Bridgewater at Cap’n Dick Smith Field. W&L man-
aged just one extra—base hit and had 16 groundball outs
against the Eagles’ pitching staff, led by starter Dan
Proctor’s seven-inning effort.

“He’s a good pitcher,” W&L coach Jeff Stickley said of
Proctor. “He stays away, stays away, then busts you in-
side with two strikes. I thought our guys at the plate battled,
but we just didn’t get the hits when we had to towards the
end of the game with guys on base.”

In the field, sophomore righthander Mike Wert
-struggled with his control, walking ﬁve and throwing three
wild pitches in ﬁve innings of work. But just two of his
ﬁve runs were earned as Wert fell to 1-3.

The Generals did manufacture a couple of runs early,

_ taking a 3-2 lead with two scores in the bottom of the third.

Hanson scored after reaching on an error, and junior cen-
ter ﬁelder Bobby Littlehale crossed home after being hit
by a pitch.

But the Eagles scored two runs off of three walks, a

A wild pitch and a passed ball in the top of the fourth. They

 

FRIENDLY CONVERSATION: W&L coachjeff Stickley consults
with the home plate umpire in the bottom of the second
inning of the Generals’ 2-1 loss to Eastern Mennonite.

would add insurance runs in the ﬁfth, sixth and ninth in-
nings, including a solo home run by second baseman Jamie
Lawhome.

“Little things are what‘ kills you against these guys,”
Stickley said. “They’re a good enough team that they
make you pay when you make a little mistake.”

W&L struggled at the plate in both games of a home
doubleheader against Eastern Mennonite on Saturday,
but quality pitching kept them in both games and gave
them a split with the Royals.

Sophomore Peter Dean tossed a complete game in the
first seven-inning stint, giving up two runs —— one earned
— on ﬁve hits. The only offense the Generals could muster,
however, was Hanson’s one—out homer in the sixth inning.

Generals continue regional dominance

senior Sallie Gray Strang were victori-
ous at No. 3.

Coach Cinda Rankin was pleased
with her team’s performance, and also
noted the match’s importance with
regard to postseason play.

“That match was an important
match for us and it was good to see
the kids dominate,” Rankin said.
“More importantly, however, Rhodes
College is a team that we don’t face
this season, but might see later in the
South Regional.

“They beat Mary Washington 9-0
earlier this year, so this was a way to
measure our progress and compare
ourselves to Rhodes.”

The Generals return to action with
a pair of matches today. Part of the
squad willtravel to Lynchburg for a
3:30 p.m. match. The rest of the team

  

“I hit that ball about as well as I’ve hit any ball in my
career, probably,” Hanson said of his shot over the left
ﬁeld wall. “(Eastern Mennonite’s Ethan Hilliard) hung a
curveball about belt-high, and I hit it right on the fat part
of the bat. I got under it, but I got a lot of it.”

Both of the Royals’ runs in the ﬁrst game came with
two outs. In the top of the third, leadoff hitter Tavis Laws
reached when second baseman Austin Allain threw away
a groundball and scored when left fielder Dan Kagey
dropped a pop ﬂy.

The game-winning run came with two gone an inning
later. Right ﬁelder T.J . Frazier smacked a double and scored
two batters later on shortstop Matt Lewellen’s RBI single.

W&L never seemed to get going in the second game,
save for an outburst in the bottom of the third. Allain
reached third on a pair of Royal errors, and Littlehale’s
double to center field scored the second baseman.
Littlehale scored when junior first baseman Brian Gladysz
pulled a double to right ﬁeld.

The 2-0 lead held up until the top of the seventh, as
sophomore Dan Kagey kept Eastern Mennonite score-
less through six. But catcher Erik Kratz hit a two-run, two-
out double to tie the game up and force extra innings.

W&L won the game in the bottom of the eighth on Allain’s
suicide squeeze, which turned into a bunt single and scored
sophomore catcher Bryan Mulhem from third base.

“We gave Austin a strike, and then I told him we were
probably going to squeeze,” Stickley said. “We did, and
he laid it down. Luckily, it was out of the reach of the
pitcher.” '

Hanson picked up the win in relief, retiring three straight
batters after Kagey gave up a leadoff single to start the
top of the eighth.

“Dan and Peter have done a great job of getting us so
many innings that I’m not needed to start,” said Hanson,

Men’s tennis tops

 

GENERAIS SLAM MONARCHS: Waslnngton and Lee sophomore Graham Nix
’ defeated Methodists Ben Porter 6-2, 6-3 at No. 4 singles at home on Saturday.

PAGE 7

Is t plate in 3 home ODAC games A

. ARYGLN‘/Tl1eRing-tumPhi
4-3 GROUNDOUT: Sophomore Austin Allain fires to ﬁrst base
in Washington and Lee’s doubleheader split with Eastern
Mennonite at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on Saturday.

who also has two saves this year. ‘‘I’ In adapting to the role
of closing, to shut the game down when we need to.”
W&L (10-7, 5-4 ODAC) has three huge conference con-
tests this week. They complete their season series with
Bridgewater with a road contest on Tuesday, and then
they travel to Virginia Wesleyan for a Saturday double-

ea Methodist

after Averett, as they destroyed the
Royals 7-0.

Detwiler was able to bring in players
who had sat out on Tuesday, and W&L
relied on them for the win. Junior Chris
Sorenson, freshmen David Ellison and
Marshall Vrney, sophomores Seth Mar-
" tin and Chris Surdo and senior John
Colfry all won singles matches and
teamed to sweep the doubles.

“We’ve got a very deep team,”
Detwiler said. “I’ ve been able to play
all 14 guys this wee .”

Saturday morning, the Duchossois
Tennis Center opened its doors to the
men of Methodist College.

“Methodist is a strong team in the
region, probably even better than
Salisbury State,” said Detwiler,
whose tearndropped Salisbury State
6-1 on March 16.

   

MARY(JL'Y/'Il1CR1ng—[umPh1

EAGLES LANDED: junior Erika Proko and the V/ashington and Lee women’s tennis
tearn handed Mary V/ashington an 8-1 loss at home on Saturday.

BY DAVE CROWELL
.\SSlSTAl\'T SPORTS EDITOR

The ﬁfth-ranked Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team completed
a strong week of tennis with an 8-1
victory over 20th-ranked Mary Wash-
ington on Saturday afternoon.

Saturday’s win, coupled with wins
on Tuesday and Thursday over Old
Dominion Athletic Conference foes
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College

' and Roanoke, respectively, ran the
Generals’ record to 10-0 on the year,

6-0 in ODAC play.
J_unior Erika Proko picked up a win

at No.2 singles over the Eagles’ Karli
Schneider. Senior Melissa Hatley,
sophomore Elizabeth Law, junior
Laura Bruno and senior Manning
Willard also picked up victories in
their singles matches.

Mary Washington picked up their
sole victory at No. 1 singles, where
the Generals were forced to retire the
match following an ankle injury to
freshman Lindsay Hagerrnan.

In doubles action, Hatley and
Proko teamed to defeat Schneider and
Steff Slaughter, 8-2, at No. 1.

Hagerrnan and \V1llard picked up a
win at No. 2 doubles and Bruno and

will face Sweet Briar at home in a 4:30
p.m. match.

The most grueling part of the sea-
son, however, starts on Thursday with
the Fab Five Tournament. The event
is being held at W&L.

The Generals will face ﬁve teams
in ﬁve days: top-ranked \V1lliams, No.
2 Emory, third-ranked Trinity (Texas),
No. 6 Pomona-Pitzer and No. 7
Gustavus Adolphus College.

“I hope we’ll do well, but I’m really
not sure,” Rankin said. “It will be the
ﬁrst time we’ll be tested and put against
comparable talent. I think it will come
down to mental toughness and which
team wants to grab the wins.

_ “There is a lot of pressure on our
team, and we’re going to have our
hands full this week.”

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team dropped a road match to
No. 10 Averett on Tuesday but re-
bounded to defeat Eastern Menno-
nite and Methodist at home on
Wednesday and Saturday.

The Generals began the week with
a 4-3 loss at Averett in Danville on
Tuesday. In a tough match, W&L just
couldn’t quite,,keep up.

Coach David Detwiler noted that
a few matches were very close, and
could have gone either way — but,
unfortunately, went to Averett.

“Averett is No. 10 in the nation,
and we’re No. 17,” Detwiler said.
“That makes for a tough match.”

The two squads split the singles
matches, as senior Rhys James won
at No. 2 singles and senior Rob
Moynihan and sophomore K.C.
Schaefer were victorious at ﬁfth and
sixth—seed singles.

Freshman Paul McClure lost at
the top slot, while sophomores Aus-
tin Kim and Graham Nix dropped
matches at No. 3 and No. 4 singles.

Averett’s point from winning two
of three doubles matches gave them
the win. Schaefer and McClure se-
cured the lone doubles victory for
W&L at the third spot.

The next day,'the Generals were
back to Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference action against Eastern Men-
nonite, and apparently had no lin-
gering doubts about their abilities

Once again, unrnindful of reputa-
tions that precede their opponents,
the Generals stepped up to a day of
excellent tennis, sweeping Method-
ist 7-0. W&L reverted back to the
same lineup they used against
Averett, but with better results.

Detwiler highlighted an excellent
performance by McClure in his
match, with a strong 6-4 third set that
gave the team a boost and the No. 1
seed a 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 win.

When asked about the doubles
matches on Saturday, Detwiler said,
“We do need to work on our doubles
a bit, but it’s the morning after FD.”

The Generals will have a few days
off from their rigorous schedule of
match play before they host Mary Wash-
ington on Wednesday at 3:30 p.m.

.‘/30 (I.\‘/fI"I(/ (2)0/11/1 1011/

MANGO MANIA - WILDBERRY BLAST - STRAWBERRY‘ BOMB
FROZEN CAPPUCCINO - FROZEN MOCHA - MORE
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ° LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

PAGE 8  .

       337511133        
Missing from lat wee’

ABOVE: Senior Rhys James serves in his 6-4, 7-6 (3) win over Salisbury State’s Scott

Mayberry on March 17. RIGHT‘. Sophomore Dan Kagey ﬁres home in Washington
and Lee’s 5-0 win over Randolph-Macon in the second game of a doubleheader on
March 17. Kagey pitched a complete game shutout, recording seven strikeouts.

Nazareth at the Liberty Hall Fields on March 14.

ABOVE: Senior Manning \Willard teamed with freshman Lindsay Hagerman for an 8-1 win at No. 1 doubles against Emory &
Henry on March 16. RIGHT: Senior co—captain Emily Owens scored a goal in Washington and Lee’s 8-7 comeback win over

7

PHOTOS BY MARY GUY/
THE RING-TUM PHI

S

 

 

isu...

. MONDAY, MARCH 25- 2002 ,

Due to a major printing error, several photos were omitted from

 

the March 18 edition of The Ring-tum Phi. The staff of the Phi 1
apologizes for the incident. Here are the photos that should have
appeared in last week’s issue:

6

‘-1
— SCOREBOARD
. .. 2 A 
BASEBALL Box SCORES AND STATISTICS MEN’s TENNIS SCORES WoMEN’s TENNIS SCORES AND SCHEDULES , ,
. » I .1
Thursday, March 21 Washington and Lee 3, Eastern Mennonite 2 (Second Game) Tuesday, March 19 - Danville, Va. Thursday, March 21 — Salem, Va. Fab Five Tournament ' 1
Bridgewater 7, Washington and Lee 4 EASTERN MENNONITE WASHINGTON AND LEE Averett 4, Washington and Lee 3 Washington and Lee 9, Roanoke 0 March 28-April 1 — Lexington, Va.
BRIDGEWATER WASHINGTON AND LEE ab r h bi ab r h bi Singles Singles
ab r h bi ab r h bi Laws of 4 1 0 0 Hanson ss/p 3 0 0 0 1. Vellu Antila (AC) (1. Paul McClure, 6-2, 6-0 1. Melissa Hatley (W&L) d. Ashley Fleming, 6-1, 6-1 Thursday, March 28 ,.

McQueen ss 3 2 1 1 Hanson ss 5 2 1 1 Rohrbough 1b 3 1 0 0 Littlehale 01 4 1 1 1 2. Rhys James (W&L) d. Pekka Mikkonen, 7-6, 5-7, Ret. 2. Elizabeth Law (W&L) d. Marianne Dolan, 6-4, 6-3 Upper Courts (‘
Lawhorne 2b 4 2 3 2 Littlehale cf 4 1 1 0 Kratz c 3 0 3 2 Kozora Sb 2 0 0 0 3. Mikko Hermans (AC) d. Austin Kim, 6-7 (4), 6-4, 6-4 3. Laura Bruno (W&L) 11. Blake Crilly, 6-3, 6-0 W&L vs. Williams, 4 p.m. ’
Heam rt 5 0 1 0 Kozora 3b 2 0 0 0 Quick 3b 4 0 1 0 Gladysz 1b 4 0 2 1 4. Tarmo Laaksonen (AC) 11. Graham Nix, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 4. Emily Taylor (W&L) d. Devon Humphries, 6-0, 6-2 _ , .
Estes 1b 3 1 2 1 Mulhern nip 3 0 0 2 CaSevers It 4 0 1 0 Gosselink rt 3 0 0 0 5. Rob Moynihan (W&L) d. Olli Kellokumpu, 6-2, 6-1 5. Kristin ‘Crawford (W&L) d. Andrea Horner, 6-1, 7-6 (3) Frldav» March 29 1
Lewis 3b 4 0 0 0 Gladysz 1b 4 0 2 0 Frazier rt 3 0 0 0 Mulhern c 3 1 0 0 6. K.C. Schaeier (W&L) (1. Peter Rouch, 6-2, 6-2 6. Lauren Burrow (W&L) 11. Emily Smith, 6-0, 6-0 '-°‘”°" c°“''‘§ , - l
Patterson dh 4 1 0 0 Gosselink c 4 0 1 1 Robertson dh 4 0 0 0 Kagey p/It 4 0 3 0 Doubles Doubles ‘ KehY°h "5- T”h"Vv 12 pm I i
Childress If 4' 0 0 0 Kagey Ii 4 1 1 0 Lewellen ss - 4 0 1 0 Sibley If 3 0 0 0 1. Antila/Mikkonen (AC) d. Andrew Roberts/James, 8-4 1. Hatley/Bruno d. Fleming/Crilly, 8-2 UPP“ c°}"‘5 _ _ Y I‘
Shull c 3 1 0 0 Sibley dh/rf 4 0 2 0 Thompson 25 3 0 2 0 Leitner 20 0 ‘0 0 0 2. Hermans/Laaksonen (AC) (1. Kim/Nix, 3-2 2. Law/Burrow d. Smith/Humphries, 3-5 Pomona Pﬁzer VS- William 12 P-In =
Dewar cf 3 0 0 0 Allain 2o 4 0 0 0 Miller pr 0 0 0 0 Riiiee ph 1 0 0 0 3. Schaeier/McClure (W&L) d. Kellokumpu/Rouch, 3-4 3. Taylor/Crawford d. McCall/Tesconi, 9-4 Emory VS- W&L: 4 P-"1 p,’ M ,
Totals 33 7 7 4 34 4 8 4 Sauder 2b 0 0 0 0 Allain 2b/ss 4 1 1 1 Saturday March 30

Bridgewater 101 211 001 — 7 Totals 32 2 8 2 31 3 7 3 Wednesday, March 20 — Lexington, Va. Saturday, March 23 — Lexington, Va. Lower Calms -

Washington and Lee 102 000 001 — 4 Eastern Mennonite 000 000 20 — 2 Washington and Lee 7, Eastern Mennonite 0 Washington and Lee 8, Mary Washington 1 G t Add hus VS, Wm m 9 J‘

E —— Lawhorne, Lewis 2, Hanson, Kozora. DP — Bridgewater 3. Washington and Lee 002 000 01 — 3 Singles Singles EUS avus P p P.t' ' a 5’ am’

LOB — Bridgewater 7, Washington and Lee 7. 2B — Sibley. One out when winning run scored. 1. Chris Sorenson (W&L) d. Drew Fuderaro, 6-2, 6-3 1. Steit Slaughter (MWC) d. Lindsay Hagerman, 4-6, Umog; l§(‘)urct’?°na Izer’ 1 pm‘

3B — McQueen. HR — Lawhorne. SB — Estes 2, Hanson. CS — E - Quick, Thompson, Forry, Hanson, Gladysz. DP - Washington 2. David Ellison (W&L) d. Brian Miller, 6-2, 6-2 0-5, Def. Mg? washm ton vs Ken on 9 a m 4‘
McQueen. SF —— McQueen, Estes, Mulhern. and Lee 1. LOB — Eastern Mennonite 9, Washington and Lee 11. 3. Marshall Viney (W&L) d. Mike Barsteika, 6-1, 6-3 2. Erika Proko (W&L) d. Karli Schneider, 6-3, 6-3 Trinﬁy vs WEL 1 p'm y ’ ' ‘

IP H R ER BBSO 2B — Kratz, Littlehale, Gladysz, Kagey. SB — Kagey. SH — 4. Seth Martin (W&L) d. Kevin Steiner, 6-1, 6-2 3. Melissa I-Iatley (W&L) d. Lindsay McMahon, 6-2, ' ’ ‘ '

Bridgewater Frazier. 5. Chris Surdo (W&L) d. Justin Boer, 6-0, 6-3 6-4 Sunday, Maw), 31 4
Proctor W, 1-0 7 6 3 1 2 3 IP H R ER BBSO 6. John Colfry (W&L) d. Sean Boer, 6-3, 6-1 4. Elizabeth Law (W&L) d. Kim Colwell, 6-1, 6-1 Lowe, calms »
Geisert 1 0 0 0 0 1 Eastern Mennonite Doubles 5. Laura Bruno (W&L) d. Nancy Clark, 6-0, 6-0 Trinity ,,s_ Emory’ 9 a_m_

Jones S, 1 1 2 1 1 0 1 Forry 6 2-3 4 2 1 3 3 1. Ellison/Surdo (W&L) d. Fuderaro/Barsteika, 8-2 G. Manning Willard (W&L) d. Dena Heath, 6-1, 6-3 Upper cams

Washington and Lee Delp L, 0-2 1-3 2 1 1 1 1 2. Viney/Sorenson (W&L) d. Miller/Steiner, 8-4 Doubles A W&L vs. pomona pitze,-7 9 am 4
Wert L, 1-3 5 5 5 2 5 7 Flynn 1-3 1 0 0 0 1 3. Martin/Colfry (W&L) d. J. Boer/S. Boer, 8-3 1. Hatley/Proko (W&L) d. Slaughter/Schneider, 8-2 .1
Mulhern 4 2 2 1 1 1 Washington and Lee 2. Hagerman/Willard (W&L) d. Colwell/Heath, 8-3 Monday, April 1

WP — Wen 3. PB - Gosselink 2. HBP — Littlehale by Proctor. Kagey 7 8 2 2 2 5 Saturday, March 21 —- Lexington, Va. 3. Bruno/Sallie Gray Strang (W&L) d. McMahon Upper Courts 1!

T — 2:31. A — 162. Hanson W, 1-0 1 0 0 0 O 0 Washington and Lee 7, Methodist 0 Haufi, 8-2 Gustavus Adolphus vs. W&L, 4 pm,

WP — Delp, Kagey. HBP — Kozora by Forry. T — 2:19. A — 142. Singles J‘
Saturday, March 23 1. Paul McClure (W&L) (1. Glen Kitner, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 . -

Eastern Mennonite 2, Washington and Lee 1 (First Game) 2. Rhys James (W&L) d. Adam Hunter, 6-3, 6-2  SPORTS SCHEDULE: ,MARCH 25'APRlL 3

EASTERN MENNONITE WASHINGTON AND LEE Washington and Lee Baseball Statistics 3. Austin Kim (W&L) d. Kevin Criscoe, 6-0, 6-1

ab r h bi ab r h bi Batting (minimum 10 plate appearances) 4. Graham Nix (W&L) d. Ben Porter, 6-2, 6-3 Monday’ Mam, 25 Saturday’ March 30 Tuesday, Apr“ 2

Laws cf 4 1 1 0 Hanson ss 3 1 1 1 Player AVG AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI SLG 5. Rob Moynihan (W&L) 11. Kevin Caccia, 6-1, 6-1 womenvs Tennis outdoor Track Go"

Rohrbough 1b 4 0 0 0 Littlehale cf 3 0 0 0 Dan Kagey .412 34 4 14 3 0 0 4 .500 6. K.C. Schaeier (W&L) 11. Marcus Dudley, 6-2, 6-2 W&L at Lynchburg, 3:30 pm_ W&L at Bridgewater «W&L at goanoke/ODAC ‘i
Kratz c 3 0 1 0 Kozora 2 0 0 0 Matt Kozora .368 57 11 21 3 0- 1 13 .474 Doubles Sweetg.-iaratw&|_‘ 4-30 pm Invitational TBA Invitational, TBA ‘
Quick 30 3 0 1 0 Mulhern rt 3 O 0 0 Brian Gladysz .361 61 11 22 5 1 0 10 .475 1. Andrew Roberts/James (W&L) d. Hunter/Keith ‘ Baseba" ,1 -‘_
casevers If 3 0 0 0 Gladysz 1b 3 0 1 0 Todd Gosselink .350 60 7 21 3 2 0 12 .467 Kassoui, 9-4 T"°5“aVi ”"’"°h 26 Baseba". . . Roanoke at W&L 3 m V
Frazier ri 3 1 1 0 Gosselink c 3 0 1 0 Michael Hanson .339 62 22 21 3 2 3 9 .597 2. Kim/Nix (W&L) d. Kitner/Criscoe, 8-6 Baseball _ W&L 3‘ V"9'“Ia We5'eYa” (2% Menis Tennis ‘ p‘ ' ,
ChSevers an 2 0 0 y 0 Kagey If 3 0 1 0 Bobby Llttlehale .303 66 16 20 6 0 1 16 .439 3. McClure/Schaeier (W&L) d. Caccia/Porter, 3-3 W&L aIB"d9eWa1or- 3 Pm» 12 P-m- Roanoke 3, W&L 330 g
Lewellen ss 3 0 1 1 Sibley an 3 0 0 0 Bryan Mulhern .300 60 12 13 5 0 2 17 .433 Wednesday, March 27 Men’s Tennis ' ' pm‘ '
Thompson 2b 2 0 O 0 Allain 2b 2 0 1 0 Paul Sibley .256 43 7 11 3 0 0 4 .326 : W&L at Washington College, .

Droppers ph 1 0 0 0 Andrew Rifiee .250 8 2 2 0 0 0 2 .250  INVITATIONAL  :tLGaEii:,::e3;30 p_m_ 12 p.m. :,3Vae::lfas|Tay’ Apr” 3 1‘ '

Totals 27 2 5 1 26 1 5 1 Austin Allain .235 51 10 12 3 0 0 4- .294 ' I _ Men’s Tennis i Women's Lacrosse Soumem V“, ima {W&L

Eastern Mennonite 001 100 0 -— 2 Kyle Droppers .133 15 1 2 1 0 0 2 .200 Reshhs 7'0"‘ ‘he 2002 W&L/ODAC G0” 'hVh3h°ha'» held Mary Washington at W&L Denison at w&|__ 1 p_m_ 3 9 3 " I
Washington and Lee 000 001 0 -1 Matt Marino .000 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 March 21 at the Lexington Golf & Country Club (Par 71): 3-30 pm ' Men-S ,_ac,,,s5e Men,sp'T';'mis '- I‘
E — Lew Ilen, Ka ,All in. DP — ' t n n . B . . A ‘

— Easter: Mennogiiiiia 6, al/Vashingtor\IN::rc1ImI_geCe) 5? 2dBLfF1ra:gr, Totals 307 534 106 164 35 5 7 93 431 Team Standings W&L scmes Xi/hhllhhiz hlahlzffi P-"1 W&L at Lynchburg’ 2 p-mi ii/vv&L at 'Lyri_Chburg’ 3 pm. 3» »
Gladysz. HR - Hanson. Pitching (minimum 5 innings) 1. Washington and Lee 312 1. Carlos Spaht 75 omen 5, acmsse

IP H R ER BBSO Player ERA W-L G GS SV IP H R ER BB SO 2. Guilford 315 5. Chuck Green 77 Friday, March 29 Sunday, March 31 W&L’ at Bridgewater, 4 p.m.

Eastern Mennonite Michael Hanson 0.93 1-0 7 0 2 9.2 10 4 1 3 8 3. Randolph-Macon 320 T6. Chip Campbell 79 Riding - Me" 5 T°""'5 Me” 3 '-a°'°-"59 is
Hilliard w, 3-0 6 4 1 1 1 0 Peter Dean 1.73 3-2 7 5 0 36.13212 7 14 33 4. Lynchburg 322 — Kyle Ulep 91 W&L at Regionals. TBA W&L at Swarlhmoro 10 am W“ 3* W&L» 7 W“-

Flynn S, 3 1 1 0 0 0 2 Dan Kagey 1.85 3-2 6 6 0 39 26 12 8 16 34 4. Roanoke 322 — Ged Johnson 82

Washington and Lee Bryan Mulhern 3.00 2-0 5 1 0 15 126 5 5 7 6. Bridgewater 325 — Max Adler 89 For updated Scores’ Statistics and Schedwes’ Visit the QfﬁCja| I .Y
Dean L, 3-2 7 5 2 1 2 2 Mike Werl 8.25 1-3 5 5 0 24 41 29 22 12 23 7. Hampden-Sydney 328 . . . _ . ]

T— 1:49. A — 132. Totals 3.39 10-7 1717 2 130129 7049 56 108 3. Emory 3 Henry 368 Wa3h|hQt0h and I-99 athletics Weh She at hhP-//ath|9h°3-WlU-9dU- (

I
‘ I
’ "7 C W&L thl I" I Th R’ t Ph' 
Can tget a hard copy of the Phi. over a e ICS or 3 mg um I. 
O O I C I I I '
Visit our web site at phi.w1u.edu every Tuesday Contact assistant sports edIlOI' Dave Crowell at " ,
for stories, pictures, and Contact information. Cmwelld @ w|u _edu or )(4060_ 4

-.  .. ._ ..  .  . _  V  ., .  .. .. . . , . ,_ ,, - MAI ______ _,, ,_ , _ , _ , , __ . .._ , .   .._+.,,,,,_,....... : . . 

 

