 

"4'  tug-tum {H111

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

WA8HiN€TC-it & ‘rﬁ UHtVQ~‘StTv
:f‘»wI3TiW. VA Durst‘:

Gt”? 3 8 2001

VOLUME 104, No. 5

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

TUESDAY, MAY 29, 2001

 

ail news ‘ briefs, to
du ' 3

 

Retiring biology professor

receives Pusey Award

Dr. Tom Nye, retiring from W&L after 35 years,
was awarded the Pusey Award by the Executive
Committee last Wednesday. The Pusey is awarded
to one faculty member each year to recognize his or
her commitment and service to the University. The
award is named after former Dean Bill Pusey.

Next year’s meal plans armounced

Undergraduates now have eight different meal
plan choices for the coming year. Except for the full
board and block meal plans, all plans can be used at
any campus dining location. Meal plan users do
not have to pay the 8.5 percent Virginia sales tax on
food. Students who sign up for a plan by May 31
will be entered in a drawing for up to $100 in food
debit credit.

24/7: W&L’s WI«:I«:KI.Y (‘.\l.l£.\’l).«\R

  

Today
9 a.m.—Textbook buyback continues until 4 p.m.
East side of Evans Dining Hall.

Noon—Luncheon/Lecture. Eric Wilson, W&L
assistant professor of English, will discuss his
resesarch on Renaissance urban studies, education
and literature. Room 113, University Center.

4:30 p.m.—S1ide lecture. “Flowers, Full Moons
and Festivals: Celebrating Krishna through the Sea-
sons in Vrindaban, India.” Prof. Cynthia Atherton,
Middlebury College. N orthen Auditorium, Leyburn
Library. Open to the public.

Wednesday, May 30

9 a.m.——Textbook buyback continues until 4 p.m.
East side of Evans Dining Hall.

7 p.m.—Student movie. “Blindsight,” written and
directed by Henry Gola, ‘O1. Northen Auditorium.
Thursday, May 31

9 a.m.—Textbook buyback continues until 4 p.m.
East side of Evans Dining Hall.

8 p.m.—Music Recital. Johnson Theatre, Lenfest
Center.

Friday, June 1

All Day—Undergraduate classes end.

9 a.m.—Textbook buyback continues until 4 p.m.
East side of Evans Dining Hall.

Saturday, June 2

9 a.m.—Undergraduate exams begin.

10 a.m.—-Textbook buyback ends at 2 p.m. East
side of Evans Dining Hall.

Monday, June 4

5 p.m.—Undergraduate exams end.
Tuesday, June 5

6 p.m.——-Journalism Department reception, awards
ceremony, and buffet supper.
Wednesday, June 6

8:30 a.m.———Faculty Meeting. N orthen Auditorium.

10 a.m.—Baccalaureate. Speaker: Rev. Hoffman
F. Brown IH ’77, Pastor. Front Lawn.

11:30 a.m.—Alumni Association luncheon for
families, faculty and staff. Stemmons Plaza (rain site:
Doremus Gyrrmasium).

12:30 p.m.—Parents’ reception. Lee House.

1 :30 p.m.—Tours of historic front-campus buildings.

2 p.m.—Art Department senior theses presenta-
tions. duPont Hall 109.

3 p.m.———Art, Music and Theatre Departmental
awards ceremony. duPont Hall 109.

3 p.m.—Computer Science Department recep-
tion. Parmly 413.

3:30 p.m.—Art, Music and Theatre Departments
reception. duPont Gallery. .

4 p.m.-—East Asian Studies Program reception.
Reeves Center/Watson Pavilion.

4: 30 p.m.—History Department reception.
Alumni House.

4:30 p.m.——Mathematics Department reception.
300 Overhill Drive.

4:30 p.m.——Reception for international seniors’
families. Outside Tucker Hall.

5 p.m.—Philosophy Department reception. Uni-
versity Center 1 14.

Thursday, June 7

7:30 a.m.—/Geology Department breakfast. Sci-
ence Addition Great Hall.

8 a.m.—Shepherd Poverty Program breakfast.
Prof. Beckley’s home.

8 a.m.—Romance Languages and German and
Russian Departments breakfast. Outside Tucker Hall.

8 a.m.——Physics and Engineering Department
breakfast. Science Addition patio (rain site: Great Hall).

8:15 a.m.—Psychology Department breakfast.
Parrnly Hall.

8:30 a.m.——Williarns School breakfast. Williams
School library.

9 a.m.—Pictures of alumni parents and their
graduating children. Lee Chapel.

10 a.m.—Undergraduate Commencement.
Speaker: President John W. Elrod. Front Lawn (rain
site: Warner Center).

Noon—Biology Department lunch. Alumni House.

Noon—Chemistry Department lunch. Science
Addition, Great Hall.

Noon—English Department lunch. N orthen Au-
ditorium Terrace (rain site: N orthen Auditorium).

 

EDITOR IN CHIEF

eniors to graduate

By Matthew McDer1nott

the Front Lawn.

speaker.

and English Professor Kary Smout.

student lines.

B.A. with majors in The College.

Contrary to rumor, sheepskin diplomas
are still being conferred, and 396 students
are expecting them Thursday, June 7.

At press time, it is expected 406 de-
grees will be awarded at Washington and .
Lee’s 216th undergraduate commence-
ment, an event beginning at 10 a.m. on

University President John Elrod agreed
to be the undergraduate commencement

Faculty marshals are Accounting Profes-
sor Wrlliarn King, Biology Professor Maryanne
Simurda, History Professor Richard Bidlack

Marshals call attendance and lead the

Undergraduates who fail to attend the
commencement exercises, unless excused in
advance by formal action of the Faculty Ex-
ecutive Committee, do not recieve diplomas.

Degrees are conferred in the following
order: B.S. with Special Attainments in Com-
merce, B.A. with majors in The Williams
School, B.S. with majors in The College, B.S.
with Special Attainments in Chemistry and

 

FOUR YEARS FOR THIS? The Phi presents scenes from
previous years to showcase graduation activities.

ﬁle photos

Faculty vote‘ for ATF policy

Stricter penalties
next Fall Term

By Alison Trinidad

NEWS EDITOR

Three weeks ago, Washington
and Lee students asked the faculty
and Board of Trustees to postpone
passing new university drug and al-
cohol policy, but it seems like time
has run out. The faculty vote is in
and students should expect more
stringent penalties for substance
abuse come Fall Term 2001.

Faculty members voted to accept
the so-called “red line document” at
an hour—and-a-half meeting yesterday
afternoon. The document was a
Trustee-revised version of the Alco-
hol Task Force recommendations re-
leased last month.

Dean of Students David Howison
said the voice vote was overwhelmingly
in favor of the recommendations. While
some wording was tweaked for clariﬁ-
cation, Howison said, the gist of the
recommendations remains the same.

Included in the policy are: a three-
strike penalty system, parental notiﬁ-
cation and alcohol-free university-
sponsored tailgates. At the discretion
of the Student Judicial Council, stu-
dents with three strikes within one
calendar year may be dismissed from

the University. Education and coun-
seling are mandatory for those who
are not dismissed.

Although Executive Committee
President Rob Naftel lost the battle
to keep tailgates, he remains opti-
mistic. Student governing bodies,
such as the EC and SJC, are ulti-
mately who decide how severe sanc-
tions are for each case.

“For students, this is good,” N aftel
said.

The Executive Committee of the
Board of Trustees will be informed of
the faculty’s final decision soon,
Howison said. The details of the re-
port will be made available later in the
year, but Howison could not specify
when. As of this issue, the Task Force
webpage can be accessed through
the University Registrar website. A
copy of the recommendations sans
faculty revision is available for view-
ing through the “Task Force” link.

President John Elrod created the
Task Force last November to study the
alcohol culture at W&L and suggest
better ways to hold students respon-
sible for abusive behavior. The creation
of the Task Force came immediately
after junior Adam Burchett and fresh-
man Kristin Shelton died in a single-
vehicle crash after attending several
fraternity parties last October. Autl1ori—
ties later determined alcohol was a con-
tributing factor to the accident.

The Task Force released its recom-
mendations in April and invited feed-
back from the university through a se-
ries of open forums. Three weeks after
the recommendations’ release, Elrod
presented to the Board of Trustees the
Task Force results and their mixed reac-
tions from the W&L community. After
reviewing the recommendations, the
Board adopted a comprehensive sub-
stance abuse policy statement on May
19, 2001, that stresses responsible al-
cohol use.

According to the statement, “abu-
sive consumption of alcohol and ille-
gal drug use are inconsistent with the
core values of Washington and Lee
University.”

The Board made three stipulations
before the faculty vote. Whatever fac-
ulty members decided to keep or dis-
miss from the Task Force recommenda-
tions, they had to adopt and implement
a clearly deﬁned penalty for driving
under the inﬂuence of alcohol or drugs,
a three—strike penalty program and pa-
rental notification for student violators
of University alcohol or drug policies.

Although implementation of the
new University policy is slated for the
fall, questions about the policyfs en-
forcement and aftermath are yet to be
answered. The policy will undergo
regular faculty evaluation in coopera-
tion with the Dean of Students
throughout the coming year.

Senior faces
felony charge

By Alison Trinidad

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee senior Jeffrey James was arrested
early Saturday, May 26, after a W&L male freshman ac-
cused him of forcible sodomy, a felony. At the time of the
arrest, James served as a W&L dorm counselor. He has
since been suspended from the position.

Under Virginia law, forcible sodomy is defined as oral
sex or anal intercourse by force or intimidation or due to
mental incapacity or physical helplessness of the victim.

At his advisement hearing today, James is expected to
tell the judge whether he wants a court—appointed attor-
ney or his own counsel.

Sergeant Wayne Straub of the Lexington Police De-
partment was the shift supervisor Saturday morning. He
said the victim, accompanied by others, ﬂagged him down
on Washington Street while on routine patrol shortly after
3 a.m. Saturday. W&L Security arrived at the scene five to
10 minutes later, Straub said. According to the victim’s
statement to Straub, the alleged incident occurred in the
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house.

W&L Security was en route to James’ room in Baker
dormitory, Director of Security Mike Young said, when they
received a call from James’ hall about a ﬁght in progress.
Freshmen on James’ hall say they were awakened after 3
a.m. to a group of students beating up James in his room.

Taken by Lexington police officers, James was arrested
at the police department by Officer Gary Coleman. He
was the only student involved in the incident who was
charged and arrested that evening, Straub said. Straub
would not comment on James’ physical state at the time
of his arrest. James was brought to Rockbridge Regional
Jail a little before 6 a.m and released at 8:29 the same
night. Bail had been set at $2000.

The victim was taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital
for examination using a Physical Evidence Recovery Kit,
Straub said. Young said, as far as he knew, the victim did
not appear physically injured.

At today’s hearing, the judge will set a date for a prelimi-
nary hwring. There is a preliminary hearing anytime there is a
felony charge and the victim must testify at it. If the judge
decides there is probable cause, the case will go on to the
grand jury in circuit court.The grand jury is a group of private
citizens who decide whether or not there is enough evidence
to issue an indictment against the defendant. If the defendant
is indicted, the case will go to trial and the defendant must
plead guilty or not guilty at his arraignment. Durmg the trial,
the plaintiff will be called to testify against the defendant.

A conviction of forcible sodomy in Virginia has a penalty
of no less than ﬁve years and up to life imprisonment. As an
international student, James may face deportment if convicted,
said Director of lntemational Education William Klingelhofer.

Dean of Students David Howison said the University
will proceed in these matters according to existing judicial
procedures. If the victim chooses to pursue any hearing,
University or otherwise, he may have to wait until Sep-
tember because undergraduate classes end Friday.

Howison confirmed that James had been assaulted by
a group of W&L students after the alleged incident. As of
Monday, James had not ﬁled any criminal charges against
those students, but Young said James can file charges of
assault and battery if he chooses to do so. Following a
joint—Security—Student Judicial Council investigation, SJC
President Shane Saunders said, the SJC will try today those
students accused of assaulting James. The case and any
appeals must be tried before finals begin on Saturday.

Associate Dean of Students Anne Schroer—Lamont, a
University counselor, has asked Project Horizon to pro-
vide assistance counseling those who feel they need it.

“Anytime anyone is assaulted verbally, physically or
sexually, it’s wrong,” she said. “They deserve counseling
from peer counselors, friends and family.”

Schroer—Lamont asked students to allow both parties a
fair hearing and allow the judicial process to take place.

“Students should realize that email messages and
phone mail messages can be tracked, so people need to be
smart,” she said. “We do not need ugliness on top of
anything else.

“Harrassment is not tolerated.”

When asked if there were specific incidents of either
party being harrassed, Young declined to comment.

“That’s under investigation,” he said.

 

PAGE 2

@112 itltttg-tum ilﬂhi

PINION

MAY 29, 2001

Crittenden raises one last glass

In entering upon the daunting task of writing my ﬁnal
tour de force for a Washington and Lee publication, I feel
acertainje ne sais quoi, a fear and loathing of the sort that
surrounds Senators changing political party membership,
or of the type that envelops one when he enters a dark bar
around three in the afternoon with only the intention of
finding the bottom of another pint. It isn’t a comfortable
feeling, nor is it completely distasteful; in the end, it just
is, like a trusty companion on the long road home.

Not to get sentimental, but I can say that I have
enjoyed myself during my tenure at Washington and
Lee. I’ve met some truly amazing people whom I con-
sider not
9"” my Mike’s Final Pint
friends, but
also gifted in-
d i v i d u al s
that I have enjoyed not only knowing, but also sharing
with. These people have expanded who I am, what I
believe and what I will become. People who have
touched me in so many ways (wink, wink, nudge,
nudge), that I could only hope to have affected them in
some positive way. Over a cup of coffee, a few beers at
Traveler’s and in the dorms, I have made friendships
that mean more to me than a piece of parchment I hope
to receive in a couple of weeks. There are special people
here, and you should try and get to know them if you
get the chance, if you can take the time to leave your
catchily—named off campus house, get in your. gas-guz-
zling, never used for off—roading SUV, and meet some of
the people that make this campus wonderful. They are
all around, get to know them.

In addition to the wonderful people I have met, I, of
course, have met some of another ilk; the kind of people
you wouldn’t introduce to your folks because you’d be
embarrassed to admit you know them. You know the type:
they ooze pretentiousness like the nouveau riche always
do. They’re unctuous and sheltered, and drive big cars
that tell the world that they are protected by daddy’s ill-
begotten money (which invariably came from shady deals
in smoke-ﬁlled backrooms, or from oil). These are people
who will still claim that George W. is a smart man, and why
wouldn’t they, he’s only making them richer. They will run
around and take part in sordid bacchanals that Larry Flynt
wouldn’t approach, and then they’ll ﬁnd God and -take
offense whenever you question their old behavior. And
finally, they’ll grin f-—- you and make you sleep on the wet
spot. These are people that will smile at you while stealing
your wallet and asking to borrow a twenty. They’re here
as well, and you should look for them; only watch them,
and keep them at a safe distance.

But I digress. My true intention was to make a few
general comments before I depart. This school is chang-

ote of the Week:

(6

“You should not be
living in this country.”

—— Anonymous W&Life editor
to anonymous Phi Editor in Chief

77

 

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂlri

Editor in Chief Matt McDerm0tt
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Opinion Editor Brett T. Kirwan
W&Life Editor Amy Blevins
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor Katie Howell
Photo Editor Mary Guy

Staff Photographer Meg Ferrara

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subscription rate: $30

ing, and whether or not it is for the better, I have no part in
the decision-making process, and will not have to deal
with any of the repercussions. I will still come back and
visit, for I enjoy it here in Lexington and now call it my
home. I love this school, and am proud to say I graduated
(crossing my fingers for that canoeing grade) from here.
Too often though, this school suffers from a case of com-
mittee-itis, in which innumerable groups of randomly se-
lected, unrepresentative people serve as pawns glossing
over the current administrations agenda. If President Elrod
and his cronies in Washington Hall want to get rid of
fraternity houses, continually bring in students who don’t
fit in here (and won’t enjoy themselves) and destroy the
last remaining vestiges of what this University was in the
past, then they should do it up front and not use commit-
tees to do their dirty work. Roark was right, committees
are never the way to go. If you have an agenda, admit it.
Let the students know so they can either transfer to less

LAST CALL. Mike and his fellows seniors won’t be spending so much time in bars after Thursday.

hostile environments, or at least warn away potential stu-
dents who don’t ﬁt the “new W&L.” It will be better for
everyone.

To close, despite the occasional caustic nature of my
ranting, I do love this place, and am scared as hell to leave
it. It is comfortable here, and I like that. I feel at home here
and know where I stand. I’ve learned a lot, and I’ve done
some amazing things while I was here: learned more about
political philosophy then maybe I should (thanks to you
Eddie V.), eaten at the D-Hall for four years, been a dorm
counselor, gotten “fratty” and lived to tell about it, and
met people that have made my life special (you know who
you are), not the least of whom is my beautiful girlfriend
(love you Em). I will miss all of it, and I will miss all of you
(or should I say y’all ?).

My time has come, however, and left with my destiny
unbound, I carry on to other things, as always a passing
interloper through the musty fields of life.

LETTERS To THE ED1ToR———

Kirwan is laughable

Dear Editor,

I commend Nick Ramsey for alerting me to the sort of
fare Kirwan regularly provides. Only after reading RaInsey’s
letter was I inspired to peruse Kirwan’s otherwise forget-
table (is that regrettable?) diatribe. In the name of brevity
and civility, let me say this: I ﬁnd it laughable—— and more-
over frightening— that a man not yet 20 years of age can
cling so staunchly to ideals notable only for their antiq-
uity and myopia. The world isn’t nearly as tidy not one
group as culpable as Kirwan would have us believe. You’ll
notice I’m not simply lambasting conservatives in re-
sponse. I haven’t the heart nor the intestinal resolve to go
through Kirwan’s editorial piece by piece. I just hope the
inevitable shattering of Kirwan’s stilted reality is less pain-
ful that I fear it may be.

Sincerely,
Daniel Sozomenu ‘0l

Bad behavior of some
hurts all W&L students

Dear Editor,

I sympathize with Pollina’s distress over her recent ex-
perience of being stopped by a Lexington police officer.
The off1cer’s actions do sound disrespectful.

I am familiar with other cases of discrimination against
teenagers. A pair of twin sisters in my high school Girl
Scout troop once told a story of being thrown out of a
store and told to wait for their mother outside on the mere
suspicion that they “might” shoplift. These girls were Girl
Scouts doing extensive service projects to earn the Gold
Award, active in Greek Orthodox youth organizations, and
daughters of a regional Girl Scout leader and respected
medical doctor. Of course, the store owner didn’t know
this- only that they were teenagers.

Unfortunately, a minority of irresponsible teenagers
colors the conceptions that many people have of ado-
lescents and young adults as a whole. While it is frus-
trating, I hope that all of us will rise to the challenge of
conducting ourselves in a positive manner as ambassa-
dors for our cultures—— whether it be the Washington
and Lee student body, young adults, or natives of a
geographical region. I

Rising to this challenge includes the responsible use
of alcohol. Pollina’s experience is an example of how alco-
hol abuse by some of us affects all of us. It, among other
things, affects our reputation in the town of Lexington,
and non-abusers of alcohol bear that stigma along with
the abusers.

Rather than remaining bitter about our treatment by
police ofﬁcers, let us prove, through our behavior, that we
are worthy of respect.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ‘03

Sacriﬁce privacy for safety

Dear Editor,

Granted, it seems Pollina was unduly detained and even
viliﬁed during the events she described. Does that minor
inconvenience really merit such a hostile response? Have
the events of this past school year not taught
us to err on the side of caution? Does the sort of atmo-
sphere promulgated by this school’s social system—— es-
pecially during Spring Terrn— not demand constant vigi-
lance in the name of student and resident safety? There
are assuredly far more students who’ve taken the wheel
while unfit to drive than there are students who’ve been
undeservedly accused by local police. Just a little reminder
to maintain perspective.

Sincerely,
Daniel Sozomenu ‘O1

y Christine Metzger

TALKbaCk: What will you be doing during the summer?

    

“Going to Leningrad,
4 Russia.”
-Thomas Smitherrnan ‘04

 

“Living in Cape Cod.”

_Lucy Hinkle ,04 applications.”

“Filling out medical school

-Andrea Ceccarelli ‘O2

 

“Basic Airborne Training at
Fort Bemring.”
-Brian Tinklepaugh ‘O3

  
  

 

 

MAY 29, 2001

W&E

2 ﬁling-tum iﬂhi

IFE

PAGE 3t

photo courtesy of Lenfest Center
How CAN I CHOOSE JUST ONE? Bobby, (Blair Williams) plays a ladies’
man in the Lenfest production of Company. ’

photo courtesy of Lenfes Center
MARRIED LIFE IsN"r ALWAYS BLISS. Susan, (Sarah Heatherington) and
Peter, (Brad Haugen), announce their divorce to Bobby in Company.

 

Javapalooza presents

THE DEBUT or
 Wick Ruehling

  Monday, May 28
7:30-10:00 p.m.
BGD Quad (rainsite GHQ)

and the Nebuchadnezzars

Featuring Wick Ruehling, Alex Wilkins, Bo Vaughn and Matt. Mcwilliams

This is the last Java of the year! Make sure you're there!

THIS WEEK omx: rm: ICE caam mom swam THINGS!!!

HOLDING HANDS. Shrek and Princess Fiona share a private
moment. Mike Myers provides the voice for Shrek, who the hand of Fiona, Cameron Diaz.

by Mike George

STAFF WRITER

The makers of the new animated hit
Shrek must have been looking out for
parents. The vast majority of movies
made for children often find little appeal
with adults. Give me ten parents who
actually enjoyed Barney ’s Big Adventure
and I’ll summarily eat my hat.

Sometimes a film will work on two lev-
els, attempting to appeal to both children
and adults. However, the jokes don’t of-
ten appeal to parents and their children
at the same time. Parents will laugh at
one joke and their children will laugh at
another.

Shrek’s humor, however, is layered,
appealing to adults and children for dif-
ferent reasons. Kids and adults are
laughing, but now they are laughing at
the same time.

Shrek molds its story around the world
of fairy tales. A simple moral tale about
the importance of inner beauty, Shrek is
both touching and entertaining.

When an evil lord attempts to rid his
kingdom of its fairy tale creatures, the
home of a cantankerous ogre is beseiged

 

Baltimore
100 Light Street
410-539-0000

by characters from many of history’s
great children’s stories. In order to free
himself of his univited guests, Shrek
makes a deal with the evil lord.

In exchange for clearing out his home
of its unwelcomed guests, Shrek must
rescue Princess Fiona from the clutches
of a fierce dragon. Seeking to solidify his
power, Lord Farquaad intends to marry
the princess and thereby make himself
king. Along the way, Shrek encounters a
host of odd characters and somehow
finds a way to love.

Shrek is at least worth the price of ad-
mission, if not much more. Voice talent
is provided by many of Hollywood’s top
performers. Mike Myers voices Shrek
with a distinct Scottish broge. Myer’s
Shrek, though ugly in appearance, can’t
help but be loved by the audience.

Eddie Murphy steals the show as
Shrek’s donkey sidekick. Murphy’s char-
acter can’t ever seem to shut up, but the
words that come out of his mouth always
seem amusing. John Lithgow is also
amusing as the fiendish Lord Farquaad.

Shrek is worth seeing just for the so-
phistication of it’s computer animation.
Shrek’s animated characters and scen-

Congratulations

 

   

We look forward to being
a part of your future. .

LEGG Investment

MASON Banking

www.leggmason.com
Member NYSE, Inc. - Member SIPC

Philadelphia

1735 Market Street
10th Floor
215-496-8300

A n€l,,rCuiahi I 

Mellon Bank Center

ery are far and above anything ever seen
before. Shrek’s animation and special ef-
fects seem amazing to watch.

As much as I enjoyed this film I was
disappointed with a few of its shortcom-
ings. Shrek seems too simplistic at
points, presenting motives and charac-
ters with little to do but fill up space.
Much of the comedy in Shrek is based
on bad puns or double meaning which at
times made you groan more than laugh.

I was also dissapointed that the cre-
ators of Shrek made the usually hillarious
Mike Myers a straight man. It seemed he
was there only to foil the hilarious com-
ments of Eddie Murphy. ’

Although I had some problems with
Shrek, I do think it is worth seeing once.
Eddie Murphy makes the film watchable
through his Outrageous humor.

Refences to other films dotted within
Shrek make it worthwhile. An extended
parody of professional wrestling had me
rolling in the aisles. -

Although Shrek was made to appeal
to children, much of its humor and plot
is geared towards adults. Overall, Shrek,
is worth seeing, if only for its simple mes-
sages and witty charm.

Reston, VA
12021 Sunset Hills Rd.
Suite 100
703-345-1150

 

Photo Cortesy f IMDb.cm
competes with the evil Lord Farquaad, John Lithgow, for

 

PAGE 4

Watson wins Male Athlete of the Year

of the Year, for example. Although wrestling junior Ezra Morse

has the opportunity to make a big play,” running backs
coach Gene McCabe said of the 5-foot-6, 175-pound Geor-
gian. “Because he is so versatile — he can run, catch, and
block -— and he is so explosive, there is no question that he
is our most valuable player on offense and special teams.”

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Sometimes a journalist’s job can be quite simple.
Take the selection of this year’s Ring—tum Phi Male Athlete

and lacrosse senior Pope Hackney, among others, had terriﬁc
seasons for their respective teams, no one matched the perfor-
mance of Washington and Lee senior tailback Marc Watson.

“We know that anytime we put the ball in his hands, he

Watson’s numbers reﬂect McCabe’s talent assessment.

The senior, who has one more year of eligibility remaining
due to a redshirt season in 1999, rushed for 1,325 yards on
6.0 per carry, scoring 12 touchdowns on the ground. In
addition, he averaged 28.8 yards per kickoff return and
caught 26 passes for 205 yards out of the backﬁeld.

Then there are the records: all-purpose and rushing

yards in a game, rushing yards in a season, all-purpose
yards in a career — just to name a few.

Watson, however, modestly disagrees with McCabe’s

assertion.

“To be honest, I really don’t consider myself a go—to

guy,” Watson said. “There is a lot of talent on the offensive

Borges return

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

 

Senior women’s lacrosse attacker Liz Borges has been

named Ring-tum Phi Female Athlete of the Year.

In her final season, Borges led
Washington and Lee’s women’s la-
crosse team in goals with 45 and total
points with 59. She also led the team
with 98 shots and has collected 48
ground balls.

Despite taking a year off, this Divi-
sion lll All-American competitor has
racked up 105 goals and 41 assists for a
total of 146 points in her collegiate ca-
reer, which is fourth all-time at W&L.

For these feats, Borges has won numerous distinc-
tions. A week ago, she earned second-tearn All-American
honors from the Brine/Intercollegiate Women’s Lacrosse

Borges

Marcoux, Wheeler tabbed as outstanding freshmen

teams,” said Jan Hathorn, who
coached both players this year.
“Fontaine came to us with a history
of scoring goals, and Lee saw the need
to help us to score goals and stepped
up her game to do so.”

Despite the apparent offensive
prowess of the two freshmen, neither
one will acknowledge that she brings
anything extraordinary to her team.

“Soccer is a game where every
player is important, and a breakdown
anywhere on the ﬁeld can cost a goal,”
Marcoux said. “While the job of the
forwards is to get a ball in the goal,
that can only happen if the midfield
distributes to us, and that can only
happen if the defense clears the ball

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
IMMEDIATE CONTRIBUTION. Forward Fontaine
Marcoux led the Generals to the ODAC title
game with team highs in goals (14) and assists
(nine) as a freshman.

Proko advances to

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee sophomore Erika Proko advanced
to the NCAA Division III Women’s Tennis Individual
Championships in San Antonio on May 21-22, receiving
All-America status in singles competition.

Proko upset Pomona-Pitzer’s Sheree Schwartz, the
toumament’s sixth seed, 7-5, 6-2 in the opening round on
May 21. The sophomore then knocked off Amherst’s
Stephanie Fong 6-4, 6-2.

Elena Blanina of Methodist eliminated Proko in the
quarterﬁnals with a 6-4, 6-2 victory on May 22.

Junior Melissa Hatley fell in the first round of the tour-
nament, dropping a 7-5, 6-2 decision to Denison’s Lauren
Gerlach. Hatley and Proko lost in the opening round of
doubles competition to Trinity’s Lizzie Yasser and Abbe
Ulrich by a score of 6-2, 6-2.

Women’s lax players grab honors

Junior defender Eloise Priest and senior attacker Liz Borges
were named to the 2001 Brine/Intercollegiate Women’s La-
crosse Coaches Association All-American team.

S

    

Ring-tum Phi Fil Photo
CAT AND MOUSE GAME. Senior tailback Marc
Watson left several defenders playing catch-
up, including Sewanee’s Brian Tyler.

side of the ball, so no one has to carry a go—to guy label.

“I feel that I contributed to the team a decent amount
this year, but either of the other two running backs (sopho-
mores Dyllan Rankin and Chris Sullivan) 1 rotate with
would be able to do the same if they had the opportunities
I had last year.”

For now, though, Watson is the one getting the call in
the huddle. McCabe grants that Old Dominion Athletic
Conference foes know that Watson is going to get the

Coaches Association by leading W&L’s offense, which
ranked 19th in Division III in scoring.

Earlier this year, Borges earned First Team All-Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference and All-South honors and
landed a spot on the ODAC All—Toumament Team after
firing in two goals during a 6-2 victory over Lynchburg in
the ODAC Championship.

In addition, she was named ODAC Player of the Week
twice as well as being selected as Division III National
Player of the Week for the week of March 19.

Whether in practice or a game, Borges was the perfect
team player.

“The lacrosse team will miss Liz’s work ethic and
passion for the game,” women’s lacrosse coach Jan
Hathorn said, “Liz is a dream to coach, because she
knew how much she loved the game and she wanted

to be a part of the team regardless of her role on the
ﬁeld.

“Very unselﬁsh and very much a leader. .. she is a won-
derful young lady.”

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

For most athletes at the collegiate
level, the freshman year is one of de-
velopment and familiarization with the
ins and outs of a particular program.

Someone for-
got to inform
Washington and
Lee freshmen
FontaineMarcoux
and Lee Wheeler
of the women’s
soccer and la-
crosse teams, re- " ‘
spectively, who Wheeler
have been selected as the Ring-tum Phi
Freshman Athletes of the Year.

Marcoux led the Generals on the
soccer ﬁeld with 14 goals and nine
assists on a team that advanced to
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championship game. Wheeler,
meanwhile, was second on the la-
crosse team with 35 goals and third
with 46 total points for the ODAC
champions.

“Both of these ﬁne people offered
a scoring punch for their respective

    

out of the back.”

fensive weapon.

SOIL

In addition, Priest and freshman goalie Joanna Perini
were named to the USLacrosse All-American squad, and
Priest was selected to the 360Lacrosse.com All-America
team. Priest was named to the second team on both, while
Perini was an honorable mention selection.

Priest became the seventh General in school history to
be named to the first team after leading a defense that
yielded just 6.09 goals per game. Borges led W&L on the
offensive end with 45 goals and 14 assists. Perini posted a
goals—against average of 6.05 in 2001, fourth-best in Divi-
sion III, and a save percentage of .633, good for seventh.

Three W&L seniors
selected to play in all-star contest

Three W&Limen’s lacrosse players have been selected
for the North-South All-Star game, held at Rensselaer
Polytechnical Institute in Troy, N.Y., on June 9.

Midﬁelder and Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Year Pope Hackney, attackman Matt Dugan,
and goalie Wes Hays, all seniors, were selected to partici-
pate.

W&L was ranked No. 3 in the ﬁnal USILA Division IH
poll, ﬁnishing the season with a 14-1 record.

Playing on the defensive wing,
Wheeler wasn’t expected to post
such hefty offensive numbers in 2001.
However, she took on the role of a
goal scorer when it became necessary
that the Generals needed another of-

The Baltimore native feels that
W&L’s unanticipated success this
year was the result of a chemistry
that developed throughout the sea-

@112 itttng-tum ilﬂlii

PORTS

ball, but he believes that the Generals’ offense is balanced
enough to make a defense pay for focusing on the tailback.

“Any team in our conference knows they have to stop
our running attack to be successful,” McCabe said. “For-
tunately, we have some other players in the offense who
are very capable of making plays, which will help take
some of the pressure off of Marc.”

On this point, Watson can agree with his coach. Fur-

thermore, he believes that the rest of the offense can de-

velop quietly around its star attraction.

“Next year, I would have to say the most important
contribution the running backs can make to the offense
is to be a constant threat,” Watson said. “This will be
signiﬁcant, as we have a young quarterback who will be
relying on an experienced backfield to take the pressure
off of him.”

During the spring, Watson competed with the track
and ﬁeld team, narrowly failing to qualify for the NCAA
Division III Championships in the 100-meter dash. How-
ever, Watson and the Generals, who started 4-0 in 2000
but ﬁnished the season 5-5, are hungry to return to the
gridiron in the fall.

“There is no question that dropping those last ﬁve out
of six was disappointing,” said Watson, again deferring
credit to his teammates. “However, I do feel that it has
motivated the returning players to get better, and they
have responded this offseason by working very hard in
the weight room and on the track.”

s from year off to lead W&L

Playing lacrosse at Washington and Lee has, according
to Borges, “meant more to me than I ever thought it would.
It has taught me the value of hard work and teamwor 

Borges credits her coaches and teammates for her col-
legiate success.

“We all push each other to play at our best,” Borges said.

In her three years on the lacrosse team, Borges remains
proudest of the team’s two ODAC championships and
subsequent national tournament bids. More importantly,
she has no regrets about her lacrosse career.

“Obviously, it would have been nice to play all four
years instead of taking a year off,” Borges said. “But I
needed to take the year off to focus on academics’, and I
think I made the right decision.”

A psychology and pre-med double major with a 3.42 GPA,
Borges plans to go to medical school. Currently on the waiting
lists at the medical colleges of Virginia, Johns Hopkins, Loyola,
and Maryland, she hopes to gain admittance very soon.

In her future endeavors, the Ring-tum Phi sports staff
wishes her all the best.

 

“The chemistry on the team got
better every game we played,”
Wheeler said. “I don’t think I con-
tributed more than any other person
on this team. Each individual mem-
ber brought something different and
equally important to the team.”

Wheeler’s goal scoring came in
handy in the ODAC Tournament in
late April. She scored 12 goals in four
games to lead the Generals to wins
over Guilford, Roanoke and
Lynchburg, and an accompanying
NCAA Tournament berth.

“Before the tournament began, I
watched a lot of our game tapes to
help me get prepared,” Wheeler said.
“Any goals I scored were just a part
of an entire team effort.”

Although neither Marcoux nor
Wheeler will take credit for her accom-

plishments on the ﬁeld, Hathorn mar-
vels at the possibilities for the pair in
the future.

“The greatest part of coaching
them was that they are just freshmen,”
Hathorn said. “The prospect of where

before the end of their careers is very
exciting, and it’s fun to be around
such great potential.”

Men’s lacrosse receives seven
360Lacrosse.com selections

W&L was well represented on the 360Lacrosse.com
Division III All—America team, released on Wednesday.

Dugan and Hackney eamed first-team honors to lead a
list of seven Generals. Dugan scored 38 goals and 25 as-
sists to lead W&L, setting a school and ODAC record for
290 career points in the process. Hackney scored 50 points,
including 37 goals, on the season.

Hays and senior defenseman Pete Iwancio claimed sec-
ond—team recognition. Senior midﬁelder Bernie Norton re-
ceived third-team honors, and sophomore midﬁelder Tom
Melanson and junior defenseman Eric Kontargyris were
named honorable mention.

Hays led Division III with a 4.91 goals—against aver-
age, also finishing 17th with a .647 save percentage.
Norton scored 24 goals and 18 assists in 2001. Melanson
contributed just 14 points, but won 197 of his 268
faceoffs.

In addition to Hays, Iwancio and Kontargyris helped
lead a tough defense for W&L. The Generals allowed just
4.87 goals per game for the season, the best team average

in Division HI.

they will be and what they can achieve 1

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  

MAY 29, 2001

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
  

   
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

   

 
 
 
 
  

  

 
   

  

 
  

  

 
   
 
  
 
   
 

national quarterﬁnals, earns All-America singles honors

Borges, Proko warrant Verizon
Academic All-District recognition

Borges and Proko were named to the 2001 Verizon
Women’s College Division Spring Academic All-District

Ill squad, an honor voted on by members of the Collegiate .

Sports Information Directors of America.

Borges, a double major in pre-med and psychology,
posted a 3.42 grade point average. Proko amassed a 3.69
GPA while majoring in neuroscience.

Both players were second—team selections from a field ’
of 16 schools across the Southeast.

Sigler named to second

team of All-South Region squad 4’

Senior pitcher David Sigler was selected to the Ameri- "

can Baseball Coaches Association/Rawlings Division IH
All-South Region Team, released May 22.

Sigler compiled a 6-2 record with a 2.86 ERA in 2001,
working 66 innings and striking out 48 batters. The senior

completed seven of his nine starts as he helped W&L win ;,

a school—record 23 games.

 

ﬂ

