 
 
 

. "'5' 3755
R 

V

    

Jsrrtm G. t-t'.~’\r"E”t-'_r‘RN :-rr3-rmrrv
WAE;Hé5~éf§l’ON 2;  tmrmrrsny

v

  

77.,

\/I-0. '23I'I'sr:- Rr:.<<-r=. :.s i-

r '-H
 S I D E
BIRTE-ll)AY (I) PA(};l£i 3
l<;u:\<«'r\;\r is <’;n-'r.r=:r> rev.‘ r-its
;\SSl5’I‘.»\f\"l‘ :-:r;:rrg>n AND
r;rrr1.r; 8I{<_)'l‘l~iER
SNAPPY €I>P.r\G}5. 5
GAY S"i‘l,‘;li)’{.N‘£" T0
r,r:;c'rr'r;rzr=. rm r.‘=.r:r=. l.'\'

I .F.T\'. NICE}-l s<:.r—r.<‘><*>r.

TH

  
 

 

WrtSHtl\iG’l“()+¥

NG-TUM

 

1..-:,..»_  YA   N (V  A
INDEX
(.i}r):Ntr>Ns 3
\X7"&l .l,l*l~‘. 5
Sr-=< .>r1'.r;-: 
Gr«:;\t. %.\‘?<>rr-1s 2
24/".7 2

wrqunmnu

 

..sr.:;;\;-;;"rr:»\. ‘r’:rzr;t.\r=-, 24456

Forum probes
W&L diversity

BY LISA LANDIS
STAFF WRITER

The “problem” of diversity was discussed
at a well—attended PRIDE-sponsored forum last
Thursday at Northen Auditorium.

Seniors Jesse Rockoff and Peter Cook,
sophomore Brett Kirwan, freshmen Phil Walotsky
and Irnran Naeemullah and Associate Dean of
Students Courtney Penn comprised the panel.

The forum began with the students
reading from their articles, which had been
printed in The Ring-tum Phi or other cam-
pus publications, and had been reproduced
for the event. Each speaker had two to four
minutes on whether Washington and Lee
should pursue diversity, and, if so, how to
achieve it.

“Minorities would do well to look at the
lives of Colin Powell and Condoleeza Rice and
see how race affected their lives,” N aeernullah
said. “Similarly race should not stop minority
students at W&L from perceiving their full po-
tential.”

Naeemullah believed that W&L should
not pursue a diverse student body, but a meri-
torious one.

Cook asserted that fear causes W&L to re-
sist diversity.

“We needed to pay more attention to indi-
viduality and how that is respected on campus,
as opposed to the speciﬁc concerns of groups,”
said Rockoff, who stated that life at W&L dis-
courages individuality.

After the panel spoke, the discussion was
opened to the ﬂoor.

Issues that emerged were the new Black
Female Alliance, a fraternity party incident in
which several black girls were asked to leave
even after presenting university ID’s, the Din-

ing Hall’s fried chicken meal on MLK Day, and _

the lack of we1come.many under-represented
students feel in the Greek system and the uni-
versity in general.

and—a-half,” BFA member Marinda Harrell said.

Psychology Professor Julie Woodzicka
moderated.

“People got emotional about things, but
were respectful,” Woodzicka said.

However, Woodzicka would have preferred
to have more students “who were anti—diversity
attend.”

“Wehad a small body of anti—diversity stu-
dents attending,” she said. “It was a little (like)
preaching for the choir.” 0

Woodzicka teaches Psych 259: Stereotypes,
Prejudice and Discrimination.

Not all participants were happy with the
panel.

“(The Black Female Alliance) was intention-
ally let off the panel,” said Harrell. “(PRIDE lead-
ership) couldn’t give us a reason, besides that it
wasn’t supposed to be about the BF .”

Harrell said that a BFA member was sched-
uled to participate on the panel, but was told the
day of the event that she wouldinot be allowed
on the panel.

“We were too controservial,” Hanell said ‘They
didn’t allow us a chance to represent ourselves.”

PRIDE Co-president Patrice Wedderbum
responds that her organization “had set up
the talk to deal with the published articles.”

“The forum was not designed to focus on
the BFA,” she said.

The idea of the panel came out of PRIDE’s
fall retreat, Wedderbum said.

“All the seats (in Northen) were full, and
people were standing in the back,” Woodzicka
said. Penn estimates about 100 attended.

“I thought it was an important step in the
right direction,” Rockoff said. “People just don’t
discuss things. We’re too quiet a campus.”

The conference was arranged by juniors
Mike Morrow and Erin Russell, and sophomore
Nicole Davol. ' I ~

“We are in the planning session of another
forum.”

CRoss—cULTUREs, CROSS—DRESSING

DANCE TO THE MUSIC. Satomi I-lagiwara and Guillermo Cardone dance during SAlL’s Evening Abroad program. For more pictures, see Page 5.

We Fr‘r<ruru/ TlzeRr}2g-nmz P/21'

 

Record number of applicants scramble for on—campus housing

Spanish house, maxed-out Woods
Creek complicate upperclassmen search

BY KATIE ]. HOWELL
ASSOCIATE senor

On-carnpus housing interest was stronger this year
than in past years, Dean of Housing Courtney Penn said.

‘‘I think the greater interest is due to the fact that
more upperclass students want to stay in residence halls,”
he said. “More and more want to live on campus.”

All freshmen and upperclass students requesting on-
campus group housing in Woods Creek Apartments or
Gaines Hall for next year applied last Friday through a
lottery. Students requesting clustering suites in Games
applied first followed by current freshmen and then
upperclass students. The housing department is currently

Columnist Raspberry

addresses W&L Ethics Institute

 

placing individual applicants in on-carnpus housing for
next year. ‘ ’

“(The university’s policy) only guarantees housing
for freshmen and sophomores,” Penn said. “There have
not been any recent cases of juniors
or seniors» denied housing.”

Currently the university offers
upperclass housing in Gaines Hall,
Woods Creek, sorority and fraternity
houses,‘ the International House, the
Delt Center, and the Chavis House.
Students may have another housing
option next year if a new Spanish-
themed housing project emerges.

“(The Spanish house) would be a c0—curricular act
that would add to academic enrichment and bring people
together in a wonderful way,” professor and Spanish hous-
ing coordinator Cecile West—Settle said.

Wrsr-Srtrnr. 

The Spanish housing project would involve common
meals, speaking Spanish, Hispanic and Spanish food, con-
versation hours, guest speakers, and other special activi-
ties like ﬂamenco lessons. The residents would be both
native speakers and other students interested in improv-
ing their Spanish-speaking skills, West—Settle said.

The proposed project would take the place of the
current International House at 4 Lee Avenue. The Inter-
national housing group would move to the current Delt

Center located at 106 Lee Avenue if University officials

approve of the project.
The University held an executive staff meeting today
to decide whether this project and move are a viable hous-

ing opportunity. Minor renovations will be necessary to.

convert 106 Lee Avenue into a co—educational facility and
4 Lee Avenue also needs minor improvements.

Penn said eleven students have applied to live in the
Spanish House.

“We have a host of applicants for both the Spanish
and International Houses,” he said. “They just don’t know
where they will live yet.”

Penn said most students are satisfied with their
living arrangements for next year. He said while some
students are not in their first-choice housing, the Uni-
versity has still been able to accommodate all appli-
cants.

“Woods Creek is such a premium property,” Penn
said. “Some are concerned that the lottery is not fair, but
that usually comes from students that are at a low pick.
We think the system is fairly legitimate.”

Penn said that the Housing Department sees renova-
tions for the freshman dorms in the future.

“We have been working on ideas in the 5-year plan,”
he said. “There is some need to start planning for our
residential future. We are in need of some new or better
facilities.”

Husband—wife team
presents lecture double—header  

“It’d just be convenient,” Newman said,

“What are Journalists For’ asks Pulitizer-Prize winner

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
ASSITANT NEWS EDITOR

Pulitzer Prize—winning colum-
nist and Duke University journalism
professor William Raspberry, who
has written on the myriad topics of
AIDS, the Nation
of Islam, and vio-
lent rap lyrics, vis-
ited Washington

.. . and Lee this past
RASPBERRY Friday, March 15.
Raspberry’ s
visit was part of the School of
Joumalism’s Institute on Ethics in
Journalism, which was hosted by
Washington & Lee for the 33” time
this year March 15-16. His speech,
entitled “What Are Journalists For,”
was held in the Williams School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics.

In his speech, Raspberry spoke
of the violence emphasized in the
media, and the de—emphasize on sub-
stance. He said that journalists can
entertain and divert, but their goal

  

. should be to inform. -

Journalists are responsible to
help democracy survive, Raspberry

said, pointing out that some joumal—
ists see themselves as detached crit-
ics.

However, Raspberry was careful
to pointiout that the way journalists
do their work frequently exacerbates
problems that should have helped
solve. He alluded to the need jour-
nalists have of creating drama, either
in the form of “hanging heads” or “lift-
ing hearts.”

When asked why he chose to
come to W&L this past weekend,
Raspberry said that he came on the
invitation of his old friend Journalism
Professor Lou Hodges, the Knight
Professor of Journalism Ethics.

Although unfamiliar with work- -

ings of the W&L journalism program,
he urged W&L journalism students
to learn to tell a story in service of the
facts, rather than making the facts
serve the story.

The School of Journalism was
established by General Robert E. Lee
during his presidency at W&L, which
makes it the oldest journalism program
in the United States.

Sam Russell contributed to this article

2000-2001 GRADE DISTRIBUTION
Highest percentages of grades

ﬁrst second
A+ 17.2 Theater 8.1 Engineering
A 50.0 Public Policy/Russian (tie)
A— 35.3 Neuroscience 33.3 Russian Studies
B+ 50.0 Public Policy 27.2 Anthropology
B 26.4 Religion 20.9 Accounting
B— 15.6 E. Asian Studies l5.l Journalism
C+ 7.7 Eoonornics/Spanish (tie)
C 16.7 Chinese 11.0 Geology
C- 6.3 E Asian Stud. 4.4‘Math
D+ 2.1 Math 1.8 French/Russian (tie)
D 33.3 Russian Studies 3.9 Math
D- 1.9 Math l.3 Accounting

courtesy W&L Registrar

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF WRITER

Northwestem’s Richard Kieckhefer and
Barbara Newman gave two nights of lectures in
their respective fields of medieval study.

Kieckhefer, a religion and history professor,
delivered a lecture Monday on “Inventing Guilt
and Innocence in Early Witch Trials,” in Leybum
Library’s Northen Auditorium. Kieckhefer’s pro-
fessional work focuses on the history of the late
medieval Christian church.

Kieckefer’s wife, Barbara Newman, a pro-
fessor of English and religion, followed his lec-
ture with one of her own covering the 13th cen-
tury poetry of Hadewijch of Brabant. Newman
has written books about women and their role
in medieval society.

Despite differing disciplines, both are in-
terested in medieval history.

“We’re both medievalists,” Newman ex-
plained. '

“We [both] go to medieval conferences at
Kalamazoo,” Kieckhefer agreed.

While the majority of lecturing tours for
Newman and Kiekhefer do not involve travel-
ing together, occasionally the opportunity arises
for them to share their overlapping fields of
knowledge.

History Professor David Peterson invited
the duo to Washington and Lee. The pair jumped
at the opportunity.

“It’s not unusual for (both of) us to speak at
other universities.”

On average, W&L’s academic departments
usually bring in about 10 to 20 speakers each.

The Williams School brings in approxi-
mately 75 speakers for its politics, economics,
and management departments, according to sec-
retary Binda Bassett-de Maria.

“That includes two seminars where we’ve
had ﬁve speakers,” Bassett-de Maria.

History Professor Holt Merchant himself
brings two or three speakers a year for his
classes.

“Sometimes you know of them,” Merchant
said, “sometimes they come from speakers bu-
reaus.”

Guest lecturers usually run at lower prices
than those brought in by the student-run Con-
tact Committee, partially due to their lack of gen-
eral celebrity. The price can run anywhere, Mer-
chant said, but usually clock in around $500,
plus traveling expenses. I

Speakers brought in for classes usually
spend at least a day with W&L students,
participate in class seminars, and may eat
lunch and dinner with students. When
Newman arrived for her lecture, she sat in
on a couple of classes helped further the
discussions. I

“We typically get more than our money’s
worth,” Merchant said

 

PAGE 2

0. ail news briefs
hi@wIu.edu

 

Former national security
adviser to discuss terrorism

Anthony Lake, who served as national security advi-
sor during the Clinton administration, will discuss terror-
ism and other security issues affecting the country at
Washington and Lee University on Tuesday, March 19.

Lake’s speech, which is open to the public, is at 7:30
p.m. in Lee Chapel. It is sponsored by W&L’s student—run
Contact Committee.

In his speech, Lake will draw on his life—long career as
a national security strategist to discuss the role globaliza-
tion plays in the country’s national security, particularly
with regard to cyber crime and terrorism.

Having served during the Carter and Nixon adminis-
trations, Lake was appointed by President Clinton as na-
tional security advisor and served as the point man on
Cl'inton’s foreign policy team from 1993-96.



 

“In moments of crisis, in times of triumph, he has always
been at my side,” Clinton said of Lake and their close
relationship. '

As head of Clinton’s foreign policy team, Lake
strategized and implemented some of the most pressing

foreign policy issues since the end .of the Cold War. He‘

guided the United States through such geopolitical hot
spots as Bosnia, North Korea, Haiti, Iraq, Somalia and China,
while also extending the reach of democracy globally.

Phi Beta Kappa inducts new members

Washington and Lee University’s upcoming Phi Beta
Kappa and Society of the Cincinnati convocation was
held Thursday in Lee Chapel .

Joel Weisberg, professor of physics and astronomy
at Carleton College, delivered the convocation address
“The Lives and Deaths of Stars: From Gas Clouds to White
Dwarfs, Pulsars, and Black Holes.”

The convocation honored W&L students recently
accepted into Phi Beta Kappa based on their outstanding
character and superior academic records. Phi Beta Kappa
advocates that colleges and universities admit no more
than 10 per cent of class members. This year, W&L juniors
becoming part of Phi Beta Kappa had to have a minimum
3.8 grade point average on a 4.0 scale.

Courtesy wlu.edu

 

Today, March 18

Law Classes Resume

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ.
Freaky Stylee and DJ Jonas.

Tuesday, March 19

7:30 p.m.—Contact Lecture.
“A Long Road Ahead: Global-
ization and the War on Terror-
ism,” Anthony Lake, former Na-
tional Security Advisor to
President Clinton. Lee Chapel.
A reception will immediately fol-
low in the Alumni House.

Wednesday, March 20

6:30p.m.—Leadership Semi-
nar Series. “Leading with Vi-
sion.” University Center, Room
205. Facilitated by W.C. “Burr”
Datz, director of Leadership De-
velopment.

8:00 p.m.—- Alcoholics Anony-
mous Meeting. Fairfax Lounge. All
W&L students, faculty/staff and the
Lexington community are welcome.
Coffee is provided.

Thursday, March 21

3:00 p.m.—Writing Program Ac-
tivity: Faculty Discussion of News-
letter Essay and Composition Re-
quirement. Fairfax Lounge, University
Center. Refreshments provided.
events .

8:00 p.m.— Fancy Dress Concert.
Bela Fleck and the Flecktones. Stu-

MONDAY. MARCH 18. 2002'

dent Activities Pavilion. Doors open
at 8 and concert starts at 9. Tickets
are $15 for W&L community, $18 for
non—W&L community. Tickets: on
sale on campus 3/18. See http://
sab.wlu.edu/upcominghtm.

Friday, March 22

All Day—-Frances Lewis Law
Center Symposium. The Jurispruden-
tial Legacy of the Warren Court. Moot
Court Room, Lewis Hall.

9:00 p.m.-— Fancy Dress. Warner
Center.

 

 

The Phi regrets the errors.

CORRECTIONS: In the March 11th issue of The Ring-tum Phi, Professor Harlan Beckley was incorrectly
attributed to say that none of the new presidential candidates worked for Washington and Lee. Helen Hughes was
incorrectly stated to be the first female EC officer since Beth Formidoni. That same year junior Jennifer Jackson was
secretary. The next year Ashlyn Dannely, a third year law student, was secretary.

_--yc.«~i.i§i

 

RESTAURANT
BAR & GRILL

Come Celebrate
Fancy Dress with Us!

35 North Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 464-1887

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing and
Accessories

Girls, Look your. best for Fancy
Dress at

     

POL

We Have All
The Ball Necessities!

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 463-5988

   

ooﬁpooooo

 

000000000000000000000000000000

0000000

00000000000

  

000000000000000000000000‘-

A

1‘

1

 map 1 8, 2002



Abolish Fancy Dress

Universities should set priorities, or at least
hew to the ones set by the College Board and
Princeton Review. And let us be serious, an
$80,000 ball does not help Washington and Lee
rise through the ranks of liberal arts academies.
Rather, W&L should seize the FD Steering
Committee’s fund and redirect it toward wor-
thier ends.
The Board of Trustees instituted the
Swarthmorifrcation Plan in 1994 to improve
: W&L’s reputation among the trustees of other
' liberal arts institutions. This meant streamlining
tradition, jettisoning the most popular aspects
of the last 250 years and abandoning that which

I attracts our unique variety of student.

‘ Some might protest that student subscrip-

‘ tion largely funds the event. But that’s no ex-
cuse. We wouldn’t approve if W&L students
wanted to blow their money on “smack,” or
heroin, a narcotic derivative of the opium poppy
plant. And when you think about it, funding an
event that encourages drinking and drug ging is
no different. It’s just one step removed.

Let’s make W&L students “voluntarily” do-
nate their money for worthier projects. How
about funding school enhancements?

One possibility is to fund scholarships bring-
ing in more students from the world beyond.
The money spent on each year’s Fancy Dress
could increase our school’s number who are
not Southern, white, SUV-driving fraternity
members by four.

Eighty thousand “World Peace” bumper
stickers would do much to beautify the
Volkswagon mini—buses soon, should the plan
succeed, to grace our fair campus.

We should take advantage of this untapped
soure of funding to accelerate our progress to
becoming a liberal liberal arts school. How de-
liciously ironic it would be to transmute our stu-
dents’ base desires into a higher place on US
News’ Top Twenty.

 ICTURE OF THE WEEK:

No oNE COULD BE HAPPIER: Anonymous Opinions Editor
finds The E.sse12r1a]_/oumeyin his birthday package, a gift he
received from an anonymous Asst. Opinions Editor, also a
fan of the rock bands timeless music.

T HE 

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Matthew B. McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Drew Latimer
Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. Trinidad
Mary E. Guy

J eb B rooks

Meg Ferrara

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers
Internet Editor

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the

r undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

sity, Lexington, Virginia.’ The Washington and Lee Publi-

3 cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5

J p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reflect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-

‘ tions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

TEE REN(;~’I”tlM PEI

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS Ennor
Ewan; KlRWANB@\lllU.EDU

PINIONS

PAGE 3

Splinter groups do not contribute to diversity

My attendance at PRIDE’s diversity forum on Thurs-
day evening has prompted me to write an article specifi-
cally addressing the issue of diversity. I had been invited
to sit on a student panel at the forum, presumably to share

‘ my views with the attendees of the forum, but in actuality

to serve as a target for criticism of the school, the Greek
system and white students in general.

The forum began well enough, with each panelist
sharing his views and Dean Courtney Penn summing up
the efforts that the administration has made, all of which
were prompted by Pres. Elrod admonishing the Board of
Trustees that he was fed up with the situation of diversity
on campus in May 1999, and the subsequent formation of
the Committee for a More Inclusive Community.

The discussion soon took a turn for the worse,
however, with students of every ethnicity bringing up
examples of the terrible racism and prejudice on cam-
pus. Rather than a constructive discussion of the prob-
lem and possible solutions, though, the forum never
moved from bashing the fraternity system and claimin g
“victim” status for all the minorities on campus, whether
racial, religious or sexual preferential.

Much of the evening’s discussion was little more than
nit—picking on the Martin Luther King, Jr. Day dinner, the
meaning and message of the names of different campus
groups and the precise location of ID—checking brothers at
fraternity parties. Little of substance was discussed, but
few of the attendees seemed eager to change the tone and
focus of the discussion from blaming and complaining.

There may in fact be a problem with the treatment
that minority students receive on campus. In fact, very
convincing evidence was provided to
support this claim. However, the last
people that needed to hear such talk again
were the people at the forum.

Moreover, many of the forum’s at-
tendees refused to accept that attitudes cannot be
changed by admonition and angry criticism. A recent
trend on campus, exemplified by the formation of the
Black Female Alliance, or BFA, is for minority groups
to sequester themselves in exclusive organizations and
not seek to join fully the W&L community. In response
to the problems with diversity on campus, I suggested
that these groups, although they have the admirable
goal of making W&L a more understanding and ac-
cepting community, are going about their mission in
the exactly wrong way.

I’H()'lUliYl EK} FRRXR—\ I-E ’G-II/ill

FUNNY THING HAPPENED AT THE FORUM: Students discussed racism and prejudice at PRIDE’s well—attended diversity forum.

If minority students wish to change the attitudes on
campus and no longer be treated as outsiders, they must
strive to become part of the community, not withdraw
from it by forming exclusive groups. It was established
that some students may feel afraid or uncomfortable in
the presence of minority students. Having a meeting only
of black females is not going to do anything to change

that. Only through exposure to and

 shared experiences with minority stu-

dents can anyone’s fears be alleviated or

BRETT   prejudices changed.

Also, if minority students continue
to socialize largely only with one other, they will never
encounter the many W&L students who are free from
prejudice, but will instead allow past slights to fester.

Many complaints were aired about the fraternity sys-
tem. It was said that ﬂat-out racism exists and students of
color are deliberately excluded from the system. However,
rather than examine the facts of the issue, generalizations
were thrown about, accusing all fraternities of racism. In
fact, my fraternity has a black member and four intema—
tional students. Before this year’s pledge class, we had
more brothers from Pakistan than from Texas, hardly com-

monplace among W&L fraternities.

Distressingly, the administration is doing little to
encourage minority and international students to ex-
plore and join the fraternity system and may in fact be
doing much to discourage their involvement. Intema-
tional students are told on the first day of orientation
to stay away from fraternities because the Greek sys-
tem is not for them and they won’t be accepted. The
MSA engages in similar propagandizing. They create
self—fulfilling prophecies after which they complain
about the state of the fraternity system.

Minority and international students come to
W&L not as familiar with Greek life as the average
student. If the administration wants to change the
level of their participation in the system, it needs to
take an active role in encouraging their participation,
not discourage their involvement.

In sum, if minority students truly want to see change
in the culture at W&L, they can no longer sequester them-
selves in exclusive organizations. They must join the ex-
isting social groups and share the value of their diversity
with majority students. I’d bet they’ll be surprised to ﬁnd
how easy it is to fit rightin.

Senate says ‘No’ to clean air, ‘Yes’ to auto lobby

Congress literally ruined the
chance for Americans to breathe a little
easier last week.

On Wednesday, the Senate defeated
a measure that would force automakers to
increase the fuel efﬁciency of their vehicles
by ﬁfty percent over the next thirteen years.
As Thursday’s Washington Post reports,
this bill was defeated in favor of legisla-
tion proposed by Sens. Carl Levin (D-
Mich.) and Christopher Bond (R-Mo.) that
gives the Bush administration two years
to develop its own policy on the matter.
Did you notice that one of the co—authors
of this bill is from Michigan? If there were
a way to spell out my mouth hanging open
in despair, I would insert it here.

' Now, allowing Bush’s administration
to figure this out has to be the worst way
possible to resolve the situation. Bush is
the guy who wanted to rip up Alaska for
oil that we would get ten years down the
road and would last us for about a year,
as experts estimated. Should I again men-
tion the lift on the emission of certain
harmful chemicals that Bush also im-
posed? He is one of the least eco-friendly
Presidents ever.

Also, the Post’s article mentions the
fact that the mileage rules for cars have
not changed in over twenty-five years.
That means the last time Congresspassed

ECO—FRIE‘.NDLY: The Toyota Prius is one car whose production the Senate could have encouraged.

New fuel economy restrictions rejected even though technology exists that allows their implementation,‘ responsibility left to Bush

over the next thirteen years. As a matter of
fact that is more than enough time.

The latest issue of Popular Science
showcases a new hybrid prototype that
Honda is toying with. It is a sports car with
more than three hundred horses under the
hood, a V6 and a three electric engine hy-
brid system that gets nearly fifty miles to
the gallon. What is more, this car could be
on the showroom ﬂoor in three years. Also,
this car’s zero to 60 time is greater than a
car of the same horsepower and engine that
is not a hybrid. This works because the car
has three electric engines, one attached to
gas—combustible and two at both of the
car’s front wheels, doing nearly all the work
when the car is accelerating.

The reality is politicians with assets in
the oil and energy industries still desire to
see things the way they have been. However,
the ecologicalrarniﬁcations of America’s gas
consumption will catch up to us.

One real problem with current legisla-
tion was the unforeseeable market for SUV’s,
which were nearly unheard of when the leg-
islation first passed in 1975. These vehicles
are classified as “light trucks,” and are not
subject to the same corporate average fuel
economy (CAFE) legislation. Therefore, as

,. ‘ their sales have dramatically increased, the
average number of miles per gallon of cars
on American roads has dropped to twenty-

htt/1.‘//phi. wlu.edu

a vote on this leisure suits were all the
rage, the Bee Gees were hot, and John
Travolta was actually cool. Houston, we
have a problem.

Moreover, all one need to do is look at
any of the student parking lots on this cam-
pus to realize that, even with the ever—in—
creasing gas prices in today’s world, people
are actually buying more and more over-
powered, gas—wasting SUV’s. Do sorority
girls really need that Land Rover to drive
to chapter every week? Seriously. But I
"guess it goes much better with that North
Face jacket than a Toyota Prius.

But speaking of hybrid cars like the
Prius, Detroit is slowly taking steps in
the right direction. Next year’s models
out of the car capital of the world will
include electric/gas hybrid versions of
the Ford Escape, Dodge
Durango, and the GMC
Sierra. The move is slow, 
as the industry is not sure ' C‘
if Americans are ready to
rely on anything but the good old gas-
buming internal combustion engine.

As the target for my anger, Senate
Minority Leader Trent Lott stated (while

TALI<oocK:woo

“O’Douls.”
--Danny Jones, ‘05

“Strawberry daquiris.”
--Esta Acree, ‘05

'   WLEEI or CENTER
   _.l>l191s.Ra1§E¥:<l3_-.. prove that many oppo-

“White Russian”
——Landon Lane, ‘05

standing in front of a photo the super.

gas efficient Daimler/Chrysler Euro-
pean—made Smart Car), “We should be
able to make our choices. We shouldn’t
have the federal government saying
you’re going to drive the
purple people eater here.”

These remarks only

nents of the bill have no
idea what they are talking about. It is well
within our current technology’s capabili-
ties to provide safe, affordable, well-pow-
ered, fuel-efficient SUV’s, cars, and trucks

“Good ol’ Shirley Temple.”
--Leah Greenberg, ‘05

four. It has not been this low since 1980.
So, theoonly thing that can be done is
for Americans to begin buying more re-
sponsible vehicles to send Detroit the mes-
sage that our society is ready to embrace
this wonderful hybrid technology. With
more and more on the way, our options are
much more than the small cars like the
Toyota Prius and Honda Insight. If Ameri-
can car companies market these cars well,
put their brains behind making the technol-
ogy work for the cars Americans want,
those in Detroit can keep their jobs and do
the environment a favor at the same time.

“Belfast Car Bomb.”
-—Dustin Olson ‘02

PAGE 4

      OriNioNs -e

MONDAY illigcii 11 2002

Forum exposes bigotry and victimization of false diversity forces

At PRIDE’s diversity forum held last
Thursday. I spoke about my recent ar-
ticle criticizing tlie Black Female Alliance
for what I felt was its racist rhetoric and

. attempt to polarize W&L. After the fry

rum, I found myself even more shocked
by the blatant intolerance and bigotry of
many minorities, and their resistance to
positive change at W&L.

Several black students spoke about
the difficulty of being a black student at
W&L. They mentioned feeling like an
outsider. being ignored by students as
they walked past, and sometimes feeling
unsafe, all valid concerns. However, the
only apparent solution proposed by the
false diversity forces is to continue to
falsely diversify and recruit more and
more minority students who do not ﬁt in.
It is the worst possible solution.

In order to give a reality check to the
more enthusiastic supporters of diversity,
who were frequently unable to refrain from
feeding the emotional lovefest that makes
the converted go wild, I urged the need to

W&L Guys,

realize that for many minorities, diversity
is not an issue.

I used the example of two black
people who grew up poor- one of them
in_the Deep South— and went on to
achieve national prominence: Secretary
of State Colin Powell and National Secu-
rity Advisor Condoleeza Rice. Despite
this, after the forum was over, a friend of
mine came over and said that my two
examples didn’t count because both Sec-
retary Powell and Ms. Rice are Republi-
cans. It’s faulty logic, because the Right
encourages minorities to stop viewing
themselves as victims; if minorities stub-
bornly choose to take the easy route pro-
posed by the Left of playing the “vic-
tim” role, that is their mistake to make.

Most disturbing, however, was
the issue of the “traditional" W&L
student: the wealthy Southern white
male. One audience member told me
that “it will probably be at least a gen-
eration before (wealthy Southern
white males who join fraternities) will

Impress your FD date
with flowers from

I %-e 97 Equestrian Lane

(540) 464-5011

and more

Floral arrangements for all occasions

Ht. 1 l North: Right on 631
at East Lexington (Old B.V.

wad). left on 763
(Lincoln Road),
right on Equestrian
Lane to top of hill.

Lexington, VA 24450

myfsn.com / lincolnhillﬂorist
Fax (540) 464-5519

Fresh, Dried and Silk Flowers,
Gourmet Baskets, Balloons, Gifts

Lincoln Han Florist & Gifts

<3

lelettora

be completely eliminated from this .

campus,” but that doing so is a must.

Beyond the obvious fact that it is
this very type of student that made W&L
great, and that graces the ranks of our
far—reaching alumni network, I challenge
anyone advocating this type of change
to show me a single college or university
in this country where false diversiﬁca-
tion has made a positive
difference. While there
are obvious benefits
like being able to inter-
act with people of many
different backgrounds if one chooses to
do so, the downside is that this is very
rarely the case.

The false diversity forces realize
this, which is why they want to eliminate
the “traditional” W&L student, so that
there is no room for friction. This is un-
fortunate, because it need not be the case.
By and large, the “traditional” W&L stu-
dent is color—blind and accepting of oth-
ers. However, the minority community is

 CAN Dom

Repairs ~ Cataracts

COOL FRAMESE
HOT LENSESS

Lincoln Rd.
Rt. 763

Equestrian Lane

in. 531 Old a.v.aooo"

SHADES!

encouraged by forces like the NAACP-—
which recently established a chapter at
W&L—— to perceive race as an issue.
They generate a mentality of fear and
loathing that causes minorities to believe
that when they walk down the Colon-
nade and are ignored by someone they
pass, it is because of racism. They never
seem to understand that it’s far more likely

that the person is sirn—

RIGHT-\V’IN(}iRl3.SP()NSE p1yaj°‘k‘“‘°S‘°'P°°p1°

ought to reconsider

A13 ,, UL] AH 5 their actions, anyway,

   since they contribute

directly to the decline of the speaking
tradition.

To those who advocate false diver-
sity at Washington and Lee, I urge you
once again to heed my words: separate
emotion from the facts. Don’t make bi g-
oted statements like “we must eliminate
wealthy Southern white males from this
school.” Those statements are frighten-
ingly rerniscent of a “problem” Hitler and
his Nazi party faced last century. How

they dealt with it was elimination; the
world knows the ugly story.

While the false diversity forces -

aren’t proposing genocide, they cer-
tainly seem to harbor a seething hatred
of the “traditional” W&L student, and
instead of facing their fears and angers,
seek to take the easy route. This is why
they splinter into groups like the BFA,
because it helps them stay in their coni-
fort zone instead of integrating into the
W&L community. “Witness the self—seg-
regating tables in the D-hall.
I It appears that the type of minority
student at W&L hasn’t progressed much
from the l960’s, which suggests that the
mentality of minorities in the country as
a whole hasn’t changed a whole lot ei-
ther. It’s an altogether sad state of af-
fairs, and while W&L certainly carmot
take on the problems of the entire coun-
try, it can certainly mold its future lead-
ers to advocate positive change. This
applies to minorities as well as “tradi-
tional” W&L students.

am I

its part per*tarm=.anr:e car; its part mul.t.Eg3:urpoaze ca.i:rya.tt. Er’; part Eufﬁﬂg-~Edg€ t:ran;sportat3ari. and its all Toyota.

ifs Matrix, an entireliy new breed of vehfti;ie —-~— step-and-stare good leeks. standard air condi£§ent;ng_,, tip to ":80 HP

The ﬁrst class of female students at
W&L sought to prove its worth by being
extremely studious and abstaining from
social “distractions” like sororities. Later
female W&L students realized that they
could integrate more fully into W&L and
embrace its traditions, and the school
made every effort to accommodate them,
most recently with the construction of
those gorgeous sorority houses.

Similarly, the minorities at this school
need to realize that the “icebreaker’ ’ gen-
eration entered this school a long time
ago, and they need to move toward inte-
grating more fully into W&L and embrac-

ing its traditions. It is they who are lag- I

ging far behind the times, not the school.

They need to stop pointing the blame at I
others and take a look at themselves. Sev- -

eral of them have; now it is time for the .1
rest to gather the courage from within ~'

themselves and do what they know deep ’
down inside is possible: become true mern- :
bers of the W&L community. We will be 

with you every step of the way.

with an available :6-speed. t‘-riatri:=< is des—igneri to be vmatever yeti want. iactwzting afta-rdiabie 5 starting at $1 5.13625 ‘.

Test: r-ii/e Matrix At‘: Your
Tayata Dealer Today!  

 nit  trim.

wuim.tay*ata.cn;:m

 ixtttlltéffsz  T3183.  FEEE3
§'i.;?%‘%%3! £3¥’TiC‘3!’%*\L. ‘i.£f}”i,¥itl‘*i5‘\$‘iE.%?*ili ixiﬂﬁii I933!

 E).€!t?l.E.E. SET5 Fl?’-IN; P?liC§.,

3

  

 

 

 

 

PAGE 5

THE RING—’l"UI\l PHI
W &LlFE

MATl‘HE\V UARAEN dc LAIIIERIRE om
W&LlPE EDITORS
ElVlAlI:COLl<SEl\lll@\l0IUE1)IJ&GIlY((@\VlJJ.EDU

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2002

Lexington native returns to describe growing up gay

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
W&LI1=E EDITOR

On Monday, March 25, Lexington native and
current San Francisco resident Kirk Read will be
coming home to give a talk about being openly gay
in high school. He will be speaking here at Northen
auditorium at 8pm. The title of Mr. Read’s talk is
“How We Learn to Snap: Growing Up Gay in the
South.” His talk is based on his autobiographical
book “How I Learned to Snap”, which was honored
by both the Lambda Literary Awards and the
American Library Association. He is an Echols
Scholar and graduate of the University of Virginia.
He has been writing since the tender age ofthirteen,
and has done much study in the field of theatre.

. Since his graduation from college, he has lived in

Washington, D.C., New York, Virginia, and now San
Francisco. Mr. Read is a freelance writer, who has
contributed to many national publications. He is
currently working on his second book.

How much of your talk is autobiographical?

This entire book is about my life as a teenager.
True story. '

While growing up in Lexington, did you have
much contact with W&L or VMI?

If you grew up as a townie in
Lexington, chances are you had
a lot of contact with VMI and
W&L. Since Dad worked at VMI,
I practically grew up at VMI
athletic events. As a kid I was
constantly at the W&L library,
wandering the stacks. And from
eighth grade on, I went to tons
of concerts at the pavilion, where
I’d sneak under the railing into

i the beer garden. This was back in the golden age of

college radio, when we’d get lots of bands from Athens,
Georgia. Not all this frat boy jam band stuff that come
perform now. Neo-Dave Matthews stuff.

Did you attend Rockbridge County High

I School?

I attended Lexington High School before it was
consolidated into Rockbridge County High School.
I miss the school being small and intimate. My sense
is that teachers were happier at the smaller school
because it was more manageable and had
architecture that was less institutional.

When did you come out? Were yourfriends and

V family accepting of you?

I came out gradually from the beginning of high
school onward. I came out to friends and teachers
one at a time, then came out to everyone in town in
a play I wrote when I was 16. My friends were all
very accepting. My family was mostly accepting.
Some of them struggled with it and continue to struggle

What surprised you most about your high
school’s reaction to your homosexuality?

What I really enjoyed about Lexington high
school was that it had pockets of liberal and cre-
ative thinking in the faculty. Those people really
helped make the school safer for some of us.

Any humorous or touching stories you would
like to share?

When I was performing in Richmond last month,
we did a benefit for gay youth at the future site of
the Virginia Holocaust museum, this big Tobacco
Row warehouse. The guy who introduced me was a
Holocaust survivor and had lived in a dirt bunker
as a child. It was absolutely amazing to hear this
man welcome the audience and talk about how gay
people were rounded up by the Nazis and assure us
that our place in history would be honored there. .

I love coming home to Lexington because
straight people I went to school with always run up
to me and tell me about their gay friend. They always
want to set me up with him — “I have this friend,
you should meet him, you’d really like him, he
reminds me of you.” And then I tell them that I like
big Bubba types, guys that look like bouncers, and
they don’t really know what to do with that. It’s so
sweet, because they’re reaching out, doing the best
they can. You gotta love that.

What inspired you to write your book and talk
to students?

I wanted to write
the sort of book that
would have helped
me as a teenager.
There were definitely
books out
about coming out,
but they mostly
leave out sex and
drugs and drinking
because you’re not
supposed to talk
about kids
experimenting with
those things. Which is a joke, because that’s what
adolescence is all about for many of us. Kids are so
fascinated by sex and drinking and drugs and I think

As A KID I wAs
CONSTANTLY AT THE
W&L LIBRARY,
WANDERING THE STACKS.
AND FROM EIGHTH
GRADE ON, I WENT TO
TONS OF CONCERTS AT
THE PAVILION, WHERE I’D
sNEAK UNDER THE
RAILING INTO THE BEER
GARDEN

Studies Program.

2002 to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

The Department of Environmental Studies is seeking a Projects
Coordinator to begin July 1, 2002. This is a two-year intern
position reporting directly to the Director of the Environmental

The Coordinator will serve as liaison between the Environmental

Studies Program and the community; and will assist the Director

and other faculty in developing internship opportunities, and

research, scholarship and fellowship opportunities for students;

and in developing funding for the Environmental Studies

Program; will provide research assistance to the Director and will
1 coordinate the Maury River Alliance, and the exchange activities
§; associated with the W&L leadership of the US/Brazil Consortium
E; for Environmental Studies. Will also coordinate visiting speakers,
Ff conferences, workshops, seminars and similar activities. Will
if maintain and further develop the department’s website and will
 maintain academic records of students participating in the
 Environmental Studies Program.

f A Bachelor’s degree in a social sciences, sciences or humanities
 with some coursework and/or experience in environmental areas
 is required. Experience with the organization of co-curricular

§ activities, demonstrated leadership abilities, knowledge of website
§ design, word processing,.spread sheet and statistical analysis and a
3 willingness to travel are also required.

Send letter of application, resume and writing’ sample by April 5,
James R. Kahn
Professor of Environmental Studies

Leyburn Library

Equal Opportunity Employer

there _

we do them a huge disservice by not talking about
it in an honest way. I also wanted to write about
how important music was to me as a teenager.
There’s this stereotype about gay guys being into
disco music and for me its always been punk and
underground music.

What have your personal experiences taught
you about life, people, etc.?

Touring with this book has taught me a
number of things recently, because l’ve met
several thousand people along the way. I hear so
many stories about growing up, and the straight
people say that high school was hard for them,
too. High school is a nightmare for everybody.
Awkward crushes, bad poetry, chasing beer with
whiskey, getting grounded, wrecking cars. That
stuff transcends sexual identity. One thing I love
is giving straight people an opportunity to ask
me anything they want with the rule that there
are no dumb questions. What ends up happening
is that they ask me really sensible questions —
howxdo gay people have sex,
when did I know I was gay,
those kinds of basic
questions. And I ask them
the same sorts of questions
and we get a dialogue going.
I think most prejudice is
based on fear of the
unknown. I love sitting down
with a straight person and
saying “Hey, it’s okay to be
fascinated. What do you
want to know?” Giving
people freedom to start
conversation can be really

 

healing.

What can we at Washington and Lee look
forward to seeing and hearing in your upcoming
presentation?

My readings are really funny. I like to teach

cheers to the audience, really insane,
nonsensical cheers that our high school
cheerleading squad did. It scares me how I have
total recall of those cheers. l’ve done a lot of
stand up comedy, so there’s an element of that
in my performances. Definitely don’t expect me
to sip water and stand behind some boring
lectern, kids, because I grew up Methodist and
now I just will not DO podiums.
What are your feelings about returning to
Lexington? Do you come back here often?

 

I come back 3-4 times a year to see my mother. I
have mixed feelings, now that the book is out. I love
Lexington but I feel really exposed when I come back
here. I put my adolescence up there on the chopping
block and it’s completely freaky to know that people
who held me as a baby are reading about my first
sexual experiences. When I come home for
Christmas, I love going to the Palms and seeing
friends from
high school.
I’m always the
one calling
everyone,
keeping in
touch with
everyone. I
love keeping
tabs on my
high school
friends. It
grounds me.

I FEEL REALLY ExPOsED
wHEN I COME BACK
HERE. I PUT MY
ADOLESCENCE UP THERE
ON THE CHOPPING
BLOCK AND IT’s
COMPLETELY FREAKY TO
KNOw THAT PEOPLE
wHO HELD ME As A BABY

ARE READING ABOUT MY D095 Your
FIRST sExUAL fmckground

in theatre

ExPERIENCEs. help you to

feel more

comfortable

addressing groups?

Definitely. I could tell pretty quickly that I
wasn’t cut out to be an actor, but I learned a lot
from theatre. I started reading my writing out loud
when I was in high school, so now when I write, I
think of it being read out loud.

Anything else you would like to share?

If you think you have a gay friend, the best
thing you can do for that person is to mention gay
issues or gay people in casual conversation. Just
keep dropping hints and make it clear that you’re
not freaked out by gay people and that you would
be accepting if that person came out to you. Also,
if people around you are making.antigay jokes or
saying “That’s so gay,” speak up and make it clear
that they’re being insensitive.

Teachers can make classrooms safer by making
it clear that gay people are a part of literature and
history. How can you teach English class without
mentioning gay writers like James Baldwin, Walt
Whitman and Willa Cather? How can you teach
history without. mentioning Bayard Rustin, the
architect of the 1964 March on Washington? How
can you leave out the sexuality of Eleanor Roosevelt
or Bessie Smith?

R-l(llIBC()Lllll‘b\"()F\X’\l\\‘l(lRl<l1E.\D.f()\l

‘" Students celebrate a magical evening “abroad” in the GHQ

 

M53 EauuR/ 77IeR1I1g—tum P121

PAGE 

  

 
 

   

 

 

Under New Ownership

Keeping the Best — Expanding the Rest
For All Your

University Wear
Sorority & Fraternity Items
as well as

USTOM

Screenprint
Embroidery .
Specialty Items

Bring this Ad for 20% off Purchases in March

University Sportwear
15 W. Washington
464-3000

     

3.a.tn1ra, ab! 8: 4;}; 
Ctnuausi stains fmrrz arcane
-the wand, Gxazptiaaai qaaiitg
and mang aniqae swings.

    

 
   

  

ANTI ,  -1 S
B£isiJii1§§i5jE,PiE«CES nan   , A a
rag ran are nae

 

         

‘  iii‘  .1 ‘_

 ieweizy Haadquanersi

Maw. 5%. a  as
3* $63-iﬁim {i'?‘Sﬁ3' %

a  ass .wm..~at as -:24 am, e

-6237 Wmideil. $t,
Lexingtan, Va. 14$-4550
(s4e) 4b4*904z
Fax ts4n)4a4~6aao

 

in iiniiil

..

plan ‘sing
rémlar ice‘ s. as and

a merry far iii:-av are wax?’ 355% of 1§-0!‘hi,‘;!2§n5

-

 

Make

 

-I

 
 

~ H MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2002

#1 Spring B1eakVacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas,
& Florida.

Best Parties, Best Hotels,
Best Prices! A

Group Discounts, Group
organizers travel free!

Space is limited! Hurry up &
Book Now!

1-800-234-7007

www.end1esssumme1tours.com

 I S your

$§ﬁm Fm
Pancyﬂress
GceatEva'n'IgSl:y]es
Cb]Qr —  
 &pLegi/ia:>dng
@um 
463-6003
25l\btthlVl3iI1St:t:eet
GUYS, GET YOUR CUTS EARLY!

 

i

 

 

 

THE. lll:\'i(}-TU.\1lil)Hl

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2002

PORTS

]niENiYFRAi\iniN
SPORTS EDITOR
EAm;nnNidiNi@\1iiL=EDU

W&L, Jackets split ODAC pair

Weather forces Generals to
postpone 3 of 5 home games

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

With the doubleheader-heavy Old
Dominion Athletic Conference sched-
ule, sometimes a split is the best you
can hope for. _

That’s what the Generals (9-5, 4-2
ODAC) got against Randolph-Macon

_at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on Satur-

day. All six of W&L’s conference
games have come in twinbill format,
with the Generals coming up with two
splits and a sweep.

“If you split and get two sweeps, I
think that’s 10 wins, and that gets you
in the toumament,” W&L coach Jeff
Stickley said of the conference sched-
ule. “These are the ODAC double-
headers. You see everybody’s one
and two (starters), and you’ve just got
to hang in there and keep battling.”

In the first game, the Yellow Jack-
ets (5-6, 1-3) tagged sophomore Peter
Dean for four runs in the second in-
ning, and the Generals could never
rally in the 5-2 loss.

Doug McCray pitched the seven-
inning complete game for the winners,
striking out ﬁve. The loss dropped
Dean to 3-1 and was the ﬁrst defeat of
his collegiate career.

Though the Generals hit the ball

‘ hard against McCray, most of their

cuts were right at the Randolph—Ma—
con defense.

“In the ﬁrst game, we had a lot of
kids that were hitting the ball really

JACKETS BLANKED: Sophomore Dan Kagey ﬁres home in
Washington and Lee’s 5-0 win over.Randolph-Macon in the

sharply, but they were hitting it right
at people,” said junior center ﬁelder
Bobby Littlehale, who was 2-for-4 in
each game of the doubleheader. “The
second game, the breaks seemed to
go our way where they didn’t go our
way in the first game.”

Game 2 was scoreless entering the
bottom of the third, but W&L quickly
changed that. Sophomore second
baseman Austin Allain walked and
then scored when Hanson tripled to
the right ﬁeld comer.

Littlehale singled in junior short-
stop Michael Hanson and stole sec-
ond, and the Generals later loaded the
bases with one out. But W&L man-
aged just one run out of the scenario,

as Littlehale scored on Alan

J ohnson’s wild pitch for a 3-0 lead.
That was more than enough of-
fense for sophomore Dan Kagey, who

improved to 3-2 with the complete
game shutout. The righthander gave
up just three hits and four walks while
striking out seven.

“I had pretty decent stuff, but it
really took me a while to ﬁnd my con-
trol,” Kagey said. “In the ﬁfth, sixth,
seventh innings, I started to get bet-
ter control, and all three of my pitches
were working.”

W&L extended the lead with in-
surance runs in the fourth and ﬁfth
innings. Allain smacked a one-out
single in the fourth, advancing to third
on an errant pick-off attempt and a
wild pitch. He scored on Hanson’s
opposite—ﬁe1d sacriﬁce ﬂy.

The Generals manufactured an-
other run an inning later, as senior
right ﬁelder Todd Gosselink reached
base on a ﬁe1der’s choice and scored
on sophomore left ﬁelder Paul Sibley’s

MARi'Gui'/77ieRing-mm Phi"
second game of a doubleheader on Saturday. Kagey pitched a
complete game shutout, recording seven strikeouts.

two-out double.

Littlehale said that W&L would
have preferred to sweep the Yellow
Jackets, but was pleased that his team
responded after coming up short in
the ﬁrst game.

“We didn’t feel like we needed to
sweep Randolph-Macon, but we
wanted to sweep them,” he said. “If
we play these guys 10 games, we’l1
beat them eight or nine out of 10. It
was just one of those days where we
didn’t come out real sharp, and it kind
of burned us a little bit early on.”

Weather disrupted the Generals’
schedule twice this week, as a Tuesday
game against Mary Washington and
Sunday’s doubleheader against West
Virginia Tech were both postponed.

W&L travels to ODAC opponent
Bridgewater for a 3 p.m. Wednesday
game. .

Men’s tennis sweeps Saturday matches

BY DAVE CROWELL AND BEN SEGAL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team
improved to 6-1, 3-0 in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference play with a 9-0 defeat of Bridgewater
and a 6-1 victory over Salisbury State on Satur-

day afternoon.

“I know that we’re very strong in ODAC play,
but I was very impressed with the Salisbury vic-
tory,” coach David Detwiler said. “They have a
couple of good players and it was a great test to
see where we stand in the South region.”

In the conference victory over Bridgewater,
the Generals rolled off nine wins without drop-
ping more than three games in any set.

The match against Salisbury State proved a
bit more difﬁcult for the Generals, as freshman
Paul McClure lost a close match to Nick Peel at
No. 1 singles, 6-3, 7-6.

W&L quickly avenged McClure’s defeat, how-
ever, as senior Rhys James, sophomores Austin

1 Kim and Graham Nix, Moynihan and sophomore
K.C. Schaefer all won singles matches.

James endured a tough battle with Scott

Maybeny in order to grab a 6-4, 7-6 (3) victory
at No. 2 singles.

“Rhys played a great match,” Detwiler said.
“He was down 5-0 and came back strong to take

that second set. ,

“I was also very impressed with how Paul
played,” the coach added. “He was facing a very
good competitor from Salisbury and showed
some toughness.”

The Generals will face their next test when
they travel to Danville on Tuesday afternoon in
order to face Averett College, a squad that has
given W&L problems in the past.

“We’ll practice hard and make sure we’re well-
prepared for Averett,” Detwiler said. “They have
three very good players, then they drop off a
bit, so we should do well. We’re playing great
tennis right now.”

The Averett match begins at 3 p.m.

PAGE 7

Generals topNazareth,
fall atFrankli

r & Marshall

l\lARi’GLrv/771eR1ng-n1mPhi

ONE SCOOP: Senior co-captain Emily Owens scored a goal in Washington and
Lee’s 8-7 comeback win over Nazareth at the Liberty Hall Fields on \Wednesday.

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team ﬁnished off
an emotional, up-and-down week
with a disappointing loss to 15th-
ranked Franklin & Marshall, 13-8.

The defeat followed on the heels
of an impressive come-from-behind
victory over visiting Nazareth Col-
lege, 8-7, on Wednesday afternoon.
The momentum, however, couldn’t
carry W&L past the Diplomats.

Franklin & Marshall started the
contest by stunning the Generals with
a four— goal barrage within the ﬁrst nine
minutes. Sophomore midﬁelder Kelly
Taffe and senior defender Julie
Carskadon responded with goals as

V W&L closed the gap to two.

The Generals trailed 6-3 at halftime
and stayed within four goals of Franklin
& Marshall until about the 15-minute
mark of the second half. Over the next
6:30, the Diplomats exploded for six
unanswered goals to take a 13-4 lead
with nine minutes to play.

Sophomore Lee Wheeler tallied
two goals and junior Leslie Bogart
and freshman Kristen Brown each
added one goal apiece, but it was
too little, too late.

“We never got into a clear
rhythm,” coach Jan Hathom said.
“We would get into their zone and
then turn the ball over. They took
advantage of mistakes, which we
were never able to do.”

A slow start also plagued W&L
in Wednesday’s victory over
Nazareth. The Golden Flyers domi-
nated the first 15 minutes of the first
half, getting out to a 3-0 lead while
winning most faceoffs and annoy-
ing the Generals’ attack.

W&L had problems with catch-
ing the ball in front of the net, a weak-
ness that Hathom attributed to the
pressure to win a big game.

“I think sometimes we go in a little
tight. We’re afraid to lose a game,
so we lose our aggressiveness,”
Hathom said.

After heading into halftime down
4-1, the Generals began to chip away
at Nazareth’s lead. Bogart assisted
on two goals as she tied Erika
Snyder’s W&L record for career as-
sists. She later broke the record at
the 16:08 mark of the second half on
an assist to Wheeler to narrow
Nazareth’s lead to 6-4.

Wheeler’s goal also started a run
of ﬁve unanswered W&L goals in

order to take an 8-6 lead. Freshman

Maggie Speasmaker tallied the ﬁnal ,

two scores in the last 10 minutes,
including the game-winner.

Hathom praised the efforts of her
upperclassmen, who sparked the
comeback. .

“I thought (senior co-captain)
Julie Carskadon had an incredible
game and stood out for the entire 60
minutes,” Hathom said. “The se-
niors really picked this team up and
the freshmen, especially Maggie,
followed the lead. They discovered
some important things about them-
selves in a critical game.”

Hathom also described team spirit
as an intangible that made the differ-
ence in a close game, believing it was
“critical and essential” to the outcome.

Bogart led the Generals with one
goal and four assists. Speasmaker
and classmate Kitt Murphy each tal-
lied two goals in the winning effort.

The next couple of weeks, how-
ever, depend on the ability of the
Generals to forget about Saturday’s
loss and focus on the next game.

“We need to return to the basics
and focus on the fundamentals,”
Hathom said. “We need to learn from
our mistakes and forget past history.”

W&L returns to action this Satur-
day when they host nationally—ranked
Mary Washington, the team that ended
the Generals’ season last spring.

Martin leads men ’s lax to
win at Franklin & Marshall

B ALTIMORE—Sophomore
Dustin Martin recorded a career-high
four goals as W&L defeated Franklin
& Marshall 10-6 in men’s lacrosse at
Loyola Blakeﬁeld on Saturday;

The Generals and Diplomats
traded goals through most of the
first half, as sophomore Matt Fink
scored twice and Martin, senior An-
drew Barnett and sophomore Mike
McNamara each scored a goal.

Martin’s second goal gave W&L
a 6-3 lead with 7:02 left in the third
quarter, but Franklin & Marshall cut
the lead to 6-5 by the period’s end.

But the Generals outscored the Dip-
lomats 4-1 in the fourth quarter, as
Manin scored twice and Fink and fresh-
man Gavin Molinelli had a goal apiece.

The win broke a two- game losing
skid for the No. 7 Generals (3-2), who
open Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence play on Saturday with a 1:30 p.m.
home game against Roanoke.

SCOREBOARD

WASHINGTON AND LEE GOLF.

Results from the Ferrum Spring invitational, held
March 11-12 at the Water‘s Edge Country Club in
Smith Mountain Lake:

MEN’s TENNIS SCORES

Saturday, March 16 (Lexington)

Washington and Lee 7, Bridgewater 0
Singles

1. Chris Sorenson (W&L) d. Joshua Didawick, 6-2, 6-2
2. David Ellison (W&L) d. John Carlson, 6-1, 6-0 2. Sallie Gray Strang (W&L) d. Jennifer Goodwin, 6-1, 6-1
3. Seth Martin (W&L) d. Tim Mahames, 6-2, 6-2 3. Catherine Torrey Stroud (W&L) d. Mandy Sager, 6-0,
4. Chris Surdo (W&L) d. Doug May, 6-1, 6-0 6-2

5. Marshall Viney (W&L) d. Daniel Dell, 6-0, 6-1 4. Emily Taylor (W&L) d. Annie McKenzie, 6-1, 6-2

6. John Coltry (W&L) d. David Wyant, 6-1, 6-3' 5. Kristin Crawford (W&L) d. Sarah Kuhn, 7-5, 6-1
Doubles 6. Sahar Kamali (W&L) d. Anne Yost, 6-0, 6-2

1. Rob Moynihan/Zac Vuncannon d. Didawickl Doubles

May, 8-3 1. Melissa Halley/Erika Proko (W&L) d. Landis/Yost, 8-0

2. Ellison/Surdo d. Mahames/Carlson, 8-1 2. Bruno/Strang d. Goodwin/McKenzie, 8-1

3. Colfry/Martin d. Dell/Wyant, 8-3 3. Meredith Bailey/Stroud d. Kuhn/Sager, 8-2

I - SATur1DAv’s BASEBALL Box SCORES

First Game
WASHINGTON AND LEE
h

WoMEN’s TENNis SCORES

Friday, March 15'(Lexlngton)

Washington and Lee 9, Bridgewater 0
Singles

1. Laura Bruno (W&L) d. Lynsey Landes, 6-4, 6-1

Second Game
RANDOLPH-MACON WASHINGTON AND LEE
ab r

RANDOLPH-MACON
ab r

(0

3
O’
R7006-OOOOO-‘
U"
l\)©C>-1000-‘-"

Hanson ss
Littlehale cf
Kozora 3b
Mulhem c
Gladysz 1b
Gosselink rt
Kagey p
Sibley If
Allain 2b

Harvey 1b
Stevens 3b
Palmer ss
Madden ct
Coleman dh
Jenkins c
Opsut rt
Smith 2b
McCray ph
Durham If
Totals
Randolph-Macon 000 000 0 — 0

Washington and Lee 003 110 x — 5

E - Durham, Johnson. DP — Washington and Lee 2. LOB -
Ftandolph-Macon 5, Washington and Lee 7. 2B — Gosselink,
Sibley. 3B —- Hanson. SB — Littlehale. SH — Opsut. SF —
Hanson.

Hanson ss
Littlehale cf
Kozora 3b
Mulhern rt/p
Gladysz 1b
Gosselink c
Kagey If
Droppers dh
Sibley rf
Allain 2b

Harvey 1b
‘ Stevens 3b
Palmer ss
Madden of
Coleman dh
Jenkins 0
Opsut 11
Smith 2b
Durham lt

Team Standings
Christopher Newport
Washington and Lee
Roanoke
Randolph-Macon
Sewanee

Bridgewater
Lynchburg

N.C. Wesleyan

Washington and Lee 6, Salisbury State 1 Washington and Lee 9, Emory & Henry 0 ”a”“"“’”'SV.““eV
slug.” singles 10.  Apprentice
1. Nick Peel (ss) d. Paul McClure, 6-3, 7-6 1. Lindsay Hagerman (W&L) d. Laura Gotschall, 6-1, 6-2 11- H°'d'eb9'9
2. Rhys James (W&L) d. Scott Mayberry, 6-4, 7-6 (3) 2. Elizabeth McCracken (W&L) d. Lea McNutt, 6-0, 6-0 12- Ferrum
3. Austin Kim (W&L) d. Greg Forster, 6-3, 6-4 3. Marie Trimble (W&L) d. Nicole Fuselier, 6-1, 6-0 13. Shenandoah
4. Graham Nix -(W&L) d. Ed Snyder, 6-2, 6-3 4. Ellie Simpson (W&L) d. Jessica Cassell, 6-2, 6-0
5
6

316-305-621
31 1-312-623
310-317-627
313-322-635
31 3-323-636
320-31 7-637
332-31 0-642
311-336-647
320-328-648
323-333-656
329-344-673
346-330-676
340-344-684

i\)i\3r\>oo<.o<.>4>'.r:-
moo-—-—-oo
Noof\>-—A—A._L—.L—-A:
—A-CO-00-‘-U’
Mm-rowmoomcpxsxmm
~1-o-—-o—-oor\>—s
noo-c>oc>c>o-cg
_n:‘m—sr\>rom—-cognac»
ooooooooooo
ca-coo-oo-oo:r
ooooooooooooj
I\>t.o<.‘>c.><.>—-sxsssoanw
_A_n._A_A_A@$[\)..-L3’
o-ooooo—-Maj
.“’."9’S-":’>.“’."’."‘

Totals 26 5
Randolph-Macon 040 0001 — 5
Washington and Lee 001 100 0 —- 2
E — Stevens, Kozora. LOB - Flandolph-Macon 4, Washington
and Lee 6. 2B — Durham, Hanson, Littlehale, Droppers, Allain.
SB — Littlehale. CS — Harvey, Palmer. SH — Harvey, Smith.
IP H R ER BB 80

CD
CI
10
I0
3
0|
G
Jh

LO

Randolph-Macon
McCray W, 2-1
Washington and Lee
Dean L, 3-1

Mulhem

BK — Dean.
T -_. 1-1:0 ll ... 199

IP H R ER BBSO

7 7 2 2 0 5 Randolph-Macon ‘
Johnson L, 3-2
Washington and Lee
Kagey W, 3-2

WP — Johnson 2.

T -1242. A -137.

5. Rob Moynihan (W&L) d. Jacob Cook, 6-1, 6-1 . Lora Farris (W&L) d. Cecille Lawson, 6-0, 6-1
6. K.C. Schaefer (W&L) (1. Matt Vechiolla, 6-1, 6-0 . Lauren Burrow (W&L) d. Sara C_hi|ders, 6-0, 6-0
Doubles Doubles

1. James/Andrew Roberts d. Forster/Peel, 8-6 1. Hagerman/Manning Willard d. Gotschall/McNutt, 8-1

2. Kim/Nix d. Mayberry/Snyder, 8-4 2. Elizabeth Law/Mccracken d. Fuselier/Laura lnman, 8-0
3. Schaefer/McClure d. Cook/Vechiolla, 8-2 3. Simpson/Trimble d. Laura Labadie/Ashley Ornduft, 8-1

~ 1

W&L Scores
T5.Chip Campbell
T5. Ged Johnson 75-79-154
10. Carlos Spaht 80-76-156
T16. Kyle Ulep 82-77-159

. ﬁg;

684414 685433 74-80-154
111110 730047

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2002

    spam  

WPAGE 8 ,

Track opens outdoor season with home invitational

 

l\l nu‘ Gt'\;/'7i1c R1i1g—rzmi Plzi

LONG DISTANCE:]unior]en Fallon (left) and sophomore Samantha Snabes compete
in the 3,000—meter race in the \W&L Invitational at \‘(/ilson Field on Saturday.

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee track
program officially kicked off the out-
door season by hosting the W&L In-
vitational on Saturday.

The men’s team, competing in a ﬁeld
of 13 teams, ﬁnished in 10th place with
14 points. John Carroll University won
the men’s competition, while Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference opponents
Roanoke and Bridgewater finished
seventh and ninth, respectively.

On the women’s side, the Generals
ﬁnished ninth out of 12 teams with 22
points. Susquehanna University won
the overall title, with Roanoke taking
second place and Bridgewater seventh.

Men’s coach Norris Aldridge and
women’s coach John Tucker both
agreed that the day proved a success,
with a number of athletes achieving
season or personal bests.

Aldridge also noted that the level
of competition was extraordinary as
compared to past years.

“There was a lot of good Division
III talent in that field,” Aldridge said.
“There were a number of records bro-
ken and some competitors, including
John Carroll’s relay team, have already
qualified for nationals.”

For the 32-year coach, the 10th-
place finish was not at all indicative
of his team’s performance. The Gen-
erals are still fighting a few injuries,

which caused the team to not com-

Enjoy elegant dining in a restored 1820 Clas5z'cal Revival
townhouse in historic downtown Lexington

Dine on our Veranda
May-October

i_._......».7f/ze.__s.._s.
_WILLSON-
~ W,A‘LiK.ER
.HOUSE __.

Restaurant *-

 

Creative American Cuisine

Fancy Dress Reservations Available for Small or Large Groups

www.willsonwalker.com

Tuesday - Saturday
Lunch — 11230-2130
Dinner - 5:30-9:00

Reservations Requested

* Casual Dress "5
$20.00 Four Course Dinner Specials
Available Tues. - Tlzars. 5:30-7:00 pm.
Childrerz '5' Menu
Famous $5 Lunch Special Daily
Catering 0270]?‘ Premise

30 North Main Street

463-2731

- 463-3920

pete in eight events, including hurdles
and a number of relays.

“Mike Hegg is still coming off some
injuries, but I’m sure he would’ ve
earned us some points in the hurdles,”
Aldridge said. ‘‘In addition, he leads
off our 4x100 relay, so hopefully we’ll
begin competing in that event when
he’s completely healthy.”

Freshman Wes Bell led the team
with a second-place ﬁnish in the 1,500-
meter run, ﬁnishing in a time of 4:03.87,
less than one half-second behind the
winner.

Aldridge added that Bell probably
would have earned points in the 5,000-
meter run, but was held out due to a
small injury.

Junior Chris Sullivan took fourth
place in the 100—meter dash ( l l .26) and
also grabbed seventh in the 200-meter
dash (22.87).

Junior Mat Rapoza rounded out the
scoring with,a ﬁfth-place finish in the

Make your dinner reservations for Fancy Dress today!

shot put, throwing 42’01.50”.

In addition, Aldridge praised the
efforts of sophomore Jonathan Brimer
— who he believes would have placed
in the 400-meter dash if the competi-
tion weren’t as tight — and freshman
Steven Chambers, who ran a couple
of personal bests.

As a team, Aldridge believes they
are ahead of where he thought they
would be at this point of the season,
especially following a week of bad
weather ‘and shortened preparation
time.

On the women’s side, Tucker also
was happy about the way his team
performed.

‘‘I am extremely pleased with the
way the team is running and continu-
ally improving in competition,” he
said. “Our girls, in many cases, ran
better than they’ve ever run.”

Junior Burke Duncan led the
women with a ﬁrst—place ﬁnish in the

10,000-meter run, finishing over a
minute ahead of the competition with
atirneof41:17.7.

Tucker’s squad also benefited
from the return of two ﬁeld athletes.
Seniors Sarah Schmidt and Megan
Babst both competed for the ﬁrst time

since the end of the basketball sea- I

son and earned 12 points for the team.

Schmidt ﬁnished second in the jav-
elin with a toss of 115 feet, while
Babst took fourth in the high jump by
clearing ﬁve feet.

The women also earned a number
of eight or 10th—p1ace ﬁnishes in the
tough ﬁeld. Tucker thus believes con-
tinual improvement will reap beneﬁts
at the ODAC Championships in April.

For now, however, the coaches will
emphasize a need to continue drop-
ping times and show improvement.

The Generals return to action by
competing in the Roanoke Invitational
on Saturday.

2' .. ‘‘'.--‘’.'.‘‘t. [.3

WANT TO LOOK YOUR BEST FOR FD?

We Can Help You!

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson. »

SKIP THOMPSON’S BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street-Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.;

THE DRAGON NEEDS YOU!
HURRY‘ IN FOR RENTALS AT

THE COLLEGE TOWN SHOP
111 w. NELsoN

Divisions:
Dag:
Tim:
Courts:
Rujkest’

Eligibility:

Squash Courts)

Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

Men and Women’s Divisions
March 25, 26, 27

Matches will be played between 6 and 9 pm on the above dates
#1—6 (100) level —— Doremus Gym
USSRA Rules Apply — Players will make their own calls
All matches are first to win 3 games. Eyeguards are required
Softball (equipment: use own or sign out at windwon)

Law and undergraduate students, faculty, staff, alumni

Annual Washington and Lee
Soft Squash Tournament

Entry Deadline: March 24, 5:00 pm (Must sign up at Coach Joe Lyles’s office,
Rm 416, Doremus Gym)

ﬂgte: This will be a single elimination format. Please include your playing/touma-
ment history on entry form. Pairings will be based on information received.
Master Schedule (Pairings and Times) will be located at hallway (First Floor-

All information about tournament available outside Coach Lyles’s ofﬁce.

 set Rt)/ie 

    
  

 

 

Look and Feel Pretty

TIME IS RUNNING OUTFOR THE 22ND

WE ARE HERE TO SERVE YOU!

AMEX VISA MASTER CARD HOUSEICHARGE

and movies to'.,,c\reiztfe, 

asp/iere for  

 

  

Complete services in:

Hair
Nails

Waxing

Massage Therapy
Body Bronzing

    

n‘ me “Great Cuts For Guys!”

 Sﬁopping Center. , I I

CROSSROAD

MUSIC &‘:5."MO."l/IE5
1_12 East ﬂllicffancf ’fraz'[ 464-3645

 

MERLE NORMAN

COSMETICS AND DAY SPA
1223 N. Lee Hwy.
463-1782
Located in Wal-Mart Shopping Center

/

 

