A 37.756‘

 

JAMES   

  

  

‘“f5-’.'’ 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

 

 . t 3'” .. 
{<6 5 Z.  “"’f‘f‘.’.‘f,’.f.:_Z":, ;:,,.~-*~ ‘-;  wsmr ireeax
t‘.z,to‘¥.~~ . i       .
‘ '  4 * '  ‘aw

.. ‘ -I '1 ~   win, ..i .    v —,r   ~--t. L  .  ...., my s ‘ 2'  E   Pl'_\ll_ AI, 4.

'  Sl~’t”>R‘l‘5 I 5

i   .1. iii-m'i‘3 6

 24/’? 2

 Sf.I()E~1l:i£~3t. 5
l M   \‘i§Ri'_‘:l.\:;"x 24.45%: ‘ E .e.\.t:lc.-:~:mi', St:I{’i'lEL.\ilr‘»iE. 

b
— c oo expan s
A

i By MIKE AGNELLO “Aftersoine misgivings, ...Iamlo0lCing forward

I Assosisip Epnoii to making the mosst of our new space,”. he said. i
I 3. Peppers decided on the space in the Um-
Recent Commerce School expansion into the versity Center after consulting with former Presi-
University Center has forced three student organi- dent Elrod and University Architect Tom Contos.
i o zations and one university staff member to relocate. The University Center was an obvious choice
i Due to increases in the number of students because of its windows and bathroom access,
o taking C—School classes, two new classrooms Peppers said. The rooms are set up to resemble
t were added in the University Center. One class— C-School classrooms down to the smallest de-
 room will be in the old Mock Convention ofﬁce. tail. Both have large screens, computer-run pro-
‘ 3 The other will consist of space formerly occu- jectors for presentations and the same blue car-

pied by the Calyx, the university yearbook, and pet from the C-school.

e Director of Leadership Development Burr Datz. University Center Secretary Carol Calkins said
Datz moved across the hall to the old Ring-tum the two classrooms have created more traffic in
Phi ofﬁce. The Phi and the Calyx moved to the the building, as weH as abusier appointment sched-

V old Rockbridge Weekly office on the corner of ule. Several university organizations have already
Washington and Jefferson Streets. asked to book the roorris for evening meetings.

,, The C—School has experienced a dramatic “Classrooms get used more often than of-
growth in majors in the last five years. Currently, fices,” Calkins said.

s four of its ﬁve maj ors—management, economics, C-School expansion is not the only cause of of-
accounting, and politics—are also the four most ﬁce-shuﬂlingintheUniversityCenter. WLUR, recently
popular majors at Washington and Lee. Accord- made homeless by Reid Hall’s renovation, is moving

ﬂ ing to the 2000-2001 University Fact Book, nearly into the space formerly occupied by the Women’s

- 40 percent of students are C—school majors. Com— Center. This move will force the Trident to relocate.
‘ p merce School Dean Larry Peppers said he regret— Although the newspace is only a few yards away, it
ted taking space away from student organiza- will be about half the size of their current ofﬁce. Tri-

p tions, but that the expansion was necessary. dent Executive Editor Amanda McConnell said her

“We’ve been scheduling classes in other staff will begin the short move around Christmas.
- _ _ buildings for years,” Peppers said. “It comes The Trident, The Ring-tum Phi, WLUR and

5 I\,1,\Ry Gm/T/,eR;,,g.;,,,,, p/,,' down to students needing classroom space.” Mock Convention will all eventually have offices

RAISIN INTHE sum: APPROXM-\TE[.Y 1,000 or \‘(’&L’si:i<iim', smrr AND SIUDENIS BAKED BENFXIH AN $iir:cALnoRTln\iAsCumi.DHnrnmnrzid.\.\xnE.irDirsi\r>srimAtxiriiisi.msrir)oi<,DnsiREoF Calyx Editor Neal Willetts said he changed his in the new University Commons. The Commons

s ArinixioossirvoNriiEFiri\rl.itNDLI<r\cniELhi\i:isn’sC<im1itiioNFm«is5WhIr\rsmi;SFrr5. Br3r— ll-IEELEZL/UIH\£HIl_l.§.’THE ll/oR1DBnFoRE,i\oArm<]1*ii:s,iriiaiii1Rr>orAsE\ix-\'o1iiiEsmrs mind about mOVing Out Of the University Center. are tentatively set to open Fall 2003.

W&L ' ' m ' m m m
. continues its Fresh en housing proble sforce Jpperclass en to ove
BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT ‘  
-t residential search . . .
horror lT\ CHIEF
V ' ' . .
Trustees hope to announce appointment byApr/I wtth the largest heshmeh class tn the
n _ _ _ _ University’s history, even upperclassmen are feel-
By MATI-IIEw MCDERMOIT been devised, which willbeforrnalized ing the housing Squeeze _
n EDITOR IN CHIEF at the Beard of Trustee meetmg 011 “We had to move the residents of the first ﬂoor of
Sept 25- Gaines (Residence Hall) to Woods Creek,” said As-
Ten days after former president By October, a Search and Screen— Sociate Dean of students Courtney Penn who over.
‘ John Elrod’s death, the Board of ing Committee, composed of trustees, saw housing this summer.
Trustees took the first step to select— professors, students, alumni and par- No one was denied a place in the Woods Creek 3 ,  _ H ;_i . ,
ing anew president by unanimously ents will gather the names and re- Apartments, heweven Space was reserved by not MARYGUY/THE Ri\c—miPH1
n electing Laurent Boetsch ’69 acting sumes of potential candidates. accepting law school applications afier the June 9 Ei~r)siii2Un+iz<i.iss\i+r<osrri;FRhs-hm()RrsrmxQ»Mnrninrmsr-YEAmu1MsrAmnrikrrism.ino\m1«snmnnmus
presldeflt of Washmgton and Lee By Ja““aI7* the Screening C°m‘ deadline. 496. By the end of the month, I knew we “were ‘freshmen.
UmV‘eTS1tY- mlltee W111 “anew llile hst efeandldates Penn estimates that perhaps two suites were ﬁne.” Penn was assisted in his assignments by
V W C to a group of ﬁnahsts’ Wh°Se names Saved for Ilpperclasslnen this Way. Besides moving freshmen into at1aditionallyupper— Bonnie Walker, secretary to the dean of fresh-
have great will be Submitted te the B°a1'd’5 This overﬂow was necessary because of the classmen dorm the second ﬂoor of Davis was given men and Isca King now currently night man-
0 0 n f i_ ' Trustee N Ominating Committee: made unprecedenced size of the class. over to men, the third ﬂoor of Baker to women. ager,of the Co-op. ’
‘ gene‘? In “P of eurrent and Past trustees and “Coming into the year, we thought we had 496 This was Penn’s first year doing freshmen as— “I was impressed with how everything got
i 3 T T Y SeVe1'31fae“1tY ’_nember5- _ _ freshmen,” said Penn. “We were able to place signments, atask normally reserved for the dean of done,” King said.
if i B o e t s c h, The Screening Committee will be
, ' w h o s e aided by the standing President Ad- '
k n o w l - visory Committee, according to Sur— Uri-TED  I l I R 
5 edge and face and Sessions. Members of that G   0
leadership faculty committee include Partlett, - -
v P I ,, C e , P,i,i,.,,,, Session,’ William,’ and Campus rad/o stat/on to reopen Jan 2001
W h" — M h ' ' ~ -
toiis 1:1? d L\LRrNrBorisoi‘69 Ev:hser}I3l::1l:hl:l:sf§:i:: l£\fIdf:e1:si:i BY LATRINA STOKES mg a Vldeo tape‘
‘ P ’ ’ ’ In dd’ ' , h ff b —
V‘ Lee On ﬁrm ACINGW-SIDN Suzanne Keen, Law Professor Brian STAFF WRITER iiovos d:1at\$E3Rtv:iis1t:ons:ii
g I _O u n  , _ , , Murchison’ Chemistry Professor While campus radio sta— ﬁomafull time director, whose
4 durmg thls time of transmon’ Sald Mlchael Pleva’ Polmcsj P’°feSS9’ tion WLUR—FM waits for new position was created this year.
J. Frank Surface, Rector of the Board Robert Strong and Spanish Associ— broadcasting lioonsos the din Ham-ngion was inv oiv C d
of Trustees. Boetsch joined the ate Professor Cec'le W t-S ttl . - ~ ’ -
' W&L faculty in 1976 from Middlebuiy Sessions arlid Siciifacfe :1lso 3/avieshwlll be glint‘ N0 Stu- wltdh Sporitis bimactliciast  as
, _ _ i _ en s ows, spo s, or news un ergra ua e, en ire
College. He served as associate of stressed that alumni input is impor- will be bioadoasi nniii Jnnn_ when the public relations of_
} the college from 1989-92, aschairof the tant, and would be a factor in com- my ﬁoo took over management
R Lan d fr ‘ ' ‘ _ - . . .
        
’ ' ’ ' forced the studio to relocate ment. .

Vdtfr 1996 tilhiA3 ‘t— " ' ‘— ~ - H -

11:2“ Om “n S "g appom  ::;ln‘:i°e:dem1° and admm to the University Center. The The format 1S not go-
. , ' antenna, which once sat on ing to change, but expect
¢ The Board also Conﬁrmed Once top the journalism depart— the quality to improve, ” he
Boetsch’s appointments of Phi— the presi— inoni was moved noni. the said
losophy Professor W. Lad Sessions dential fi- , - - ' -
p as Acting Dean of the College’ Dean n a 1 i S t S student pavilion and re- Professor Bob de Maria,
of the Wnnams School Larry Pep_ have been quires new approvalifrom the the previous manager, super-
. d pers as Acting Vice President for i n t 6 I _ Federal Communications vised the radio station in ad-
Academic Affairs and Politics Pro— v i e w e d C0 ssloni - dmol-1 to dlrectmg TV Rm-
‘ fessor Kenneth Ruscio as Acting the Nomi-’ f Althigugh  Ft:/I W111 diuctl0nH amiii teachmg
t t t t . ' '
A I School‘ Commit‘ some benefits in the down Other membersiof the
“Acting President Boetsch asked tee will dine ooinmnnnv ans nis o welcome
me (to be Acting Dean ofthe College) deliver its Lin a certain nsnooi Losi said because the radii;
F'd,Ih hhdb’ - ,. .. ’  . .
E: z:henw::keI:d0:idt saaifi ia egltoﬁ r e C odm LtRIty()PgpII:;zs,,m1Nc,vI<1:, there s a silver hmng. We can station is a commumty entity
Monda ,, Sessions Said y ﬁloenn 2: ' nmmrormmmmm take our time to really train the that serves the town as well as
. “Lid (Sessions) Larry (Pep- the Soar: freshmen,” said Brendan the college.

 

 

pers) and Ken (Ruscio) are excellent
and well—respected academic lead-
ers and will serve well in these vital
University positions,” said Boetsch.
“Their experience, talent and lead-

i ership will ensure a smooth transi-

tion as we look ahead to the return
of students and a new, exciting aca-
demic year.”

Until recently, an ad hoc faculty-
trustee planning group chaired by
Surface has been running the search
process. The planning group is made
up of three other trustees, Law
School Dean David Partlett and Phys-
ics Professor H. Thomas Williams, Jr.

According to a report jointly re-
leased by Surface and Sessions, 21 more
comprehensive search process has

of Trustees in March. The new
president’s appointment will be an-
nounced in April.

The Board will likely be assisted
by an independent academic execu-
tive search firm, Surface said. Inter-
views have begun with several firms.

“The University’s last search
upon the retirement of President
John Wilson drew an impressive ar-
ray of candidates that included col-
lege presidents and higher educa-
tion leaders from across the coun-
try,” Surface said.

“It is clear this search will attract
the highest—caliber candidates given
Washington and Lee’s stature as one

of the country’s best liberal arts col-.

leges and schools of law,” he said.

.\L\1THE\\" l\lt;Drii\1<rrr/ The R2’;/pm/1/I’/22'

WREO(El)2T}l[€§lHl.OFRllD HAM,H().\lE<7F"lHE}OLRMI]$\lSt}l(X)l,ESHRO[DFD\VTlH FINFSASlT.~W<f*\IISSll§l1»L\'Il-\l.lLF:\O\1\Tl<)N.

 

Harrington ‘O1, new director of
programming and on—air op-
erations.

New and returning
DJ’s will have more time to
learn how to use the equip-
ment and practice than in
previous years, Harrington
said.

“That in itself is going to
help,” said Ben Losi, one of
two student managers. “We’ll
find out who’s really interested
and dedicated enough to go
through the full training or
wait a semester.”

DJ’s could previously
broadcast on the air just
days after receiving 15 min-
utes of training and watch-

Losi said the staff ul-
timately hopes to see the
investment in new re-
sources become a solid
base for the studio to be
located in the University
Commons.

For now, WLUR is limited

to broadcasting on the
Internet with sports coverage.
It has also added syndicated
shows to be included in the
wider variety of prograrnrriing
for next term. (http://
wlur.wlu.edu)
A For more information
about working with WLUR,
students should attend
Thursday’s meeting at 7 p.m.,
location TBA.

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10,2001



Our new ofﬁce

The Ring-tum Phi is moving on up. We’ve left
behind our humble attic room in the University
Center, trading it in for a six-room ofﬁce com-
plex on 31 Washington St.

Beneﬁcial though it may be, the move was not
voluntary. The Ernest Wrlliarns 11 School of Com-
merce (which since its inception has steadily, qui-
etly extended its inﬂuence) needed more space.
Not content with its midcarnpus, three- story temple
to capitalism, its leases in the Science Building, or
its stake in the Colonnade, it turned covetous eyes
to the top of the University Center. The ofﬁces of
the Ring-tum Phi, the Calyx, L.I.F.E., and Burr
Datz were swapped and shufﬂed: Datz and
L.I.F.E. ended up on the other side of the hall, the
Phi and Calyx were kicked off-campus.

At first our new office was nothing to look
at: the carpet was raggedy, the walls splotchy,
and the bathroom unspeakable. Insulation piled
the halls like drifts of new-fallen and leperous
snow. Habitat for Humanity could have built a

' new house with the planks, nails, and screws
that littered the basement.

That all changed with the help of some people
whom the Phi would like to thank. Heartfelt ap-
preciation goes to the Law Review, which donated
pro bono seven chairs, ﬁve desks and two book-
cases; to John White of University Computing,
who long in the afternoon could be found knee
deep in LAN cables; to the Reeves Center, who
let us cart off her choicest paintings; to Randolph
Hare, who still owes us blinds for the front win-
dow; and most of all to Carol Calkins, a pillar of

strength.
Our new look

Everyone except freshmen may notice that
there’s something different about this week’s
Phi. True, the top-quality reporting and
photography are still the same, a welcome lift
for the working man at the end of a hard
Monday. But the layout has been significantly
altered, which calls for some explanation.

The most noticable chance is our abandonment
of the venerable Old English ﬂag font. This was
not due to a callous disregard of the Phi’s rich
104-year history. Rather, we recognize that the
look of the school paper has changed with the
decades, reﬂecting the aesthetics of the times it
publishes in. There is nothing unique about the
Phi’s old mast: nearly half of all American papers
use Old English. In Lexington itself, the Calyx
and the Cadet—our yearbook and VMI’s
newspaper~—— also use the same look.

All other changes have been motivated by
the desire to have a cleaner, lighter page. Bylines’
boxes have been removed, and an extra talkback
box added. A more signiﬁcant addition is the staff
editorial box, which was dropped for a year but
now returns to inform the campus on sundry
matters. An alternate headline font and sports
stat box are also new features of the paper.

Though well aware of the legacy of former
executive editors Emily Barnes and Stephanie
Bianco, whose work cemented the Phi’s
position as the best laid-out publication on
campus, we seek to improve again.

TEE RING-Torr Pro

PINIONS  

BREIT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

EMAIL r<1RvrANB@wtuEDU

Run, RevrenSha1pton, run

Rev. Al Sharpton of Brooklyn, New
York, recently armounced his decision
to form an exploratory cormnittee to
examine his chances of gaining the
Democratic nomination for President
in 2004.

Following his release from prison
on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques,
Sharpton stated that this committee
would convene in the fall while he
travels to ten cities on a “Freedom
Ride” bus tour. Conservatives should
sincerely hope that this committee,
lead by Harvard’s Comel West, gives
Rev. Al the go-ahead to run.

It would be ridiculous to expect the
rotund Reverend actually to win the
nomination, but two other scenarios
bode well for eight years of W. After
losing the nomination, Sharpton could
decide not to run or to continue as an
independent. Should he decide‘ to end
his quest for the top spot, the follow-
ing scenario will play out.

The millions who supported
Sharpton, mostly blacks, will be terri-
bly disenchanted. While still rela-
tively unknown nationwide, he enjoys
immense support in New York. He had
once nearly forced a run—off in the race
for Democratic nominee for New York
City Mayor. His plarmed bus tour and
a serious run at the nomination may
gain him millions of supporters. He
claims that his presidential bid is mo-
tivated by the Democratic party’s fail-
ure to deal with the inequities in voter
access and outright disenfranchise-
ment that came

  

COUIUESY OF AHO0.

HEY, HEY,HEY:Hor+mrr,REv.AI.SHARPrr)N\urr.RLr<K)RPREsrDExT.t\i)DE11\rJ1.tr\UrrrHt\r(:roRYioPRrsrDBwTBLsrt

represent the very things that the Rev-
erend dislikes in the party. Moreover,
a huge black turnout was crucial to
making the past election as close as it
was in many key states, with Florida
being just one example. If black tum-
out is hurt by Rev. Al’s failed run, the
Democratic nominee will ﬁnd it very
difficult to assemble a majority.

S h o u l d

to light during
the Florida
post-election
mess. He also
cites the Democrats’ move toward the
center and away from policies that
help blacks and other “oppressed”
minorities.

If Sharpton runs his campaign as
an attack on the mistakes of the Demo-
cratic party, as he has said he plans to
do, his supporters will not be moti-
vated to volunteer and vote for a John
Edwards or an Al Gore, two men who

°ght of the Aisle
Brett T. Kirwan ‘O4

Sharpton instead
decide to con-
tinue his bid for
the Presidency
as an independent candidate, he will,
by splitting the black vote, take with
him millions of voters who would have
otherwise voted Democratic. Much
like Ralph Nader in the last election,
Sharpton would spoil the chances of
the Democratic nominee. A Democrat
simply cannot win a national election
without near unanimous support from
blacks. Additionally, an egomaniac

such as Sharpton is unlikely to give
up his campaign for the good of the
party, especially after running a cam-
paign which criticized it. He is pro-
pelled by a desire to occupy the power
vacuum created when Jesse Jackson
was hurt by marital and funding scan-
dals. He saw how Jackson’s presiden-
tial run catapulted him to instant, but
sustained, national fame and he wants
to gain similar stature.

Unfortunately for Rev. Al and his
White House dreams, he is now al-
most a caricature of himself, growing
to be grossly overweight and leading
idiotic crusades, such as the one
which sought to reinstate a Euclid,
Ohio, girl expelled for performing fella-
tio on fellow students in a school
stairwell. Sharpton can do no good
for the Democratic party, but, should
he indeed run, will do good for
America by helping to ensure a sec-
ond term for President Bush.

 

THE  

Editor-in-chief MatthewMcDermot1
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
W&Life Editor Amy Blevins
Sports Editor 2 Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor Katie Howell
Photo Editor MaryGuy
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be in the University
Center, by 5 pm on Friday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subn1is-
sions for content and length. Letters and colurrms do not
reﬂect the opinion of Me Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

Political centrism is cowardice

Fear of the extraordinary, lack of conviction leads to fascism, genocide

The ignorance and cowardice of this nation is embod-
ied in political centrism. Political centrists are among the
most arrogant and smug groups in this land. They smite
ideologues, Right, socialist, and libertarian, with labels of
“extremism,” which is simply to say, “abnormality,” that
supposedly make them unﬁt for power. These feeble people
fear all that is extraordinary, from re-

ogy to retain it. Bill Clinton, the Tammany political ma-
chine, and the Italian Christian Democrats are clear ex-
amples of this phenomenon.

My ﬁnal and most aggressive refutation of centrism is
that it becomes a vehicle of pride that blinds its believers,
through arrogance, to the great injustices that they actu-

ally support. As pragmatists, they mock

ligious conviction to patriotism, from
a zeal for social justice to moralism.

The idea of political “centrism”
is anyway a temporary illusion,
lacking permanence in the domains
of time and location. By nature, a “centrist” means some-
one who poses no threat to the essential power struc-
ture of the system and who accepts the broad ideologi-
cal line of the regime. For example, acentrist in modern
America believes in the modern Constitution, checks and
balances, a strong imperial military, an active (socially)
liberal judiciary, regulated market capitalism, and mini-
mal social welfare.

However, a centrist in early America would have hated
the idea of a peacetime army or an anti-religious judiciary
and would not understand centralized capitalism or wel-
fare. Likewise, a “centrist” position within the Politburo
of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union or of China
would obviously embrace quite different positions from a
“centrist” at the Court of Versailles. Hitler was even a
centrist in Nazi Germany who eliminated reactionary—mon—
archist and anti-capitalist elements. A centrist is neces-
sarily one who is beholden and resigned to the powers
that be.

Yet precisely because of this great resignation, often
driven by a rationalist—materialist ethic, “centrists” who
take power through centrism (as opposed to becoming a
centrist within a new system) are most likely to plunder
the nation through corruption. Lacking all principles, their
road to high office is marked by deal-making with political
machines.

Such moderate tyrants enrich themselves through their
high office while appealing to the peoples’ fear of ideol-

TALKEAc1<:

 

 

“My family.”
-Tomoko Nagawa ‘OS

The Zealot

Thomas Srnitherman‘O4

 

“Family and food.”
-Prenab Singh ‘05

all those who do not simply accept the
way things are as the natural result of
historical progress. Centrists are dia-
lectical materialists who also seem to
believe in the “end of history.” Out of
a desire to be respectable, centrists will support whatever
the political elites decide.

Eventually, history judges and condemns them for these
mistakes. And believe me, they are still occurring. Igno-
rant people do not notice the tragedies they support be-
cause they wish to understand the present as they have
been taught history.

In other words, they have never been told that all evil,
selﬁsh, and imperialistic missions have justiﬁed themselves
on “humanitarian” emotions. Nobody says, “I support
immorality. I am pursuing this policy so that the rich have
more money. I want to bomb Serbia so that we can install
a puppet government and extend our military domination
of Eastern Europe.”

Centrists like to justify the present by pointing out the
past (Hitler killed 15 million, Stalin 30, Mao 50, the Crusades
. . . . ) in order to appear morally superior. They do not care
to think of the 1 1 million (primarily of hunger) who die due
to world economic inequality induced by globalization or
of the 35 million abortions in America in 28 years.

Although most regular people who call themselves
“moderate” may hold a host of different views that may
not seem consistent or even centrist, and indeed such
people sometimes adopt the term out of ignorance or apo-
litical leanings, the aforementioned qualities of the “cen—
trist” is true for educated people. The empty cloak of the
centrist is smeared with blood and history will judge him
accordingly for his cowardice.

 

“Familiarity.”
—Emily Vander Schaaf ‘O5

 

‘Nothing.”

—Francisco Mejia ‘05

PAGE 3

EC and SJC should
consider reforms

In 1787, Philadelphia was abuzz as delegates from
all of the United States convened with the Vision of
founding a new, more perfect government for its citi-
zens. When all was said and done, the new govem-
ment was founded on three distinct branches, tied
together with a unique system of checks and bal-
ances. Now, over two hundred years later, the Con-
stitution of 1787 still governs with fairness and bal-
ance.

At W&L, however, we ignore the example set by
our Constitution’s Founding Fathers and have a stu-
dent government that breaks up the duties of the
three branches between two separate bodies. Since
the Honor System, our biggest means of dictating
s t u d e n t
Common Sense Policy’ is

subject to re-

onathari Wortham ‘04 view this

year, we
should use this opportunity to change the way our
student government operates. There are several prob-
lems with our system of student government that, if
addressed, could maximize efficiency, promote more
student involvement, and decrease allegations of elit-
ism and bias without sacrificing tradition.

Since the honor system is the only rule we have
at W&L, a full legislative branch similar to Congress
would be unnecessary. Nonetheless, some univer-
sity policy is regulated through the distribution of
the student activity fees.

The current system of having the Executive Com-
mittee hold budgetary hearings and distribute money
based on these hearings could be improved by cre-
ating a Student Activities Fee Committee. I propose
having ten seats on this committee, of which at least
seven seats could be appointed by the EC. This
committee’s only function would be to research the
groups asking for money and to evaluate the poten-
tial benefit to the W&L community of appropriating
money to these groups.

Separation of this function from the EC would al-
low the EC members to focus on their other duties,
while this new committee does all of the work. When
the university gives away its coveted Honor Schol-

   

arships, it does a thorough investigation of the stu- -

dents’ records. A dedicated committee would give
us an advantage in this similar process.

Our student government could also be made more
effective through an enlargement of the number of

people .on the EC and SJ C. This year, almost ﬁve hun- ,

dred freshmen entered the university. Many analysts
expect the trend to continue, as the slumping economy
causes many to enter college, instead of pursuing a
job in the technology industry, for example.

Being at a small college, we have the unique op-
portunity to encompass between 1 and 2% of our
student body in the student government, and Ibe-
lieve we should take advantage of it. The EC and SJC
should be composed of at least twenty-one students
each. This would give more people an opportunity
to be involved in student government, which will
make it stronger and more inﬂuential.

Also, accusations of unfairness will dissipate, be-
cause a larger number of seats will give non-Greek
affiliated students more of a chance of being elected.
The percentage of non-Greek affiliated students in-
volved in many activities is anemic and ought to be
increased by policies such as this one.

Although our Honor System is unique in that it
has no set rules, some rules need to be set in order to

insure consistency and fairness. The fact that the ‘

current Honor System is pliable as times change (and
thus values change) is very good; however, lying,
cheating, stealing, and batteryvwill never be honor-
able. Why not build a clause in the honor system
that says something along the lines of: “If the EC or
SJC finds one guilty of this, he will be expelled.”
This clause would strengthen the foundation of our
rules and encourage compliance. Students would be
respectful of the rules, without the residual fear that
arises as a result of the annual Lee Chapel Honor
System Orientation speech. This would also stream-
line the EC/SJ C process, as they would only be asked
to determine whether the person in question per-
formed the act of which he was accused.

Implementation of these strategies would un-
doubtedly be a good thing for student government
here at Washington and Lee. These policies would
give student government a more representative tone
as it performed tasks more efficiently.

Also, the element of tradition would be retained as
the distinguishing single-sanction clause is strength-
ened by one of these new strategies. I encourage the
committee that will evaluate the Honor System to exarn—
ine its implementation as well and urge it to consider
these strategies.

Freshmen, what do ou miss most about home?

 

“Space.”
—Anne Tompkins ‘O5

 

  

at

 

MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 10, 2001

Otnxtthns

Hands off the Alaskan oil

On Thursday, August 2, 2001, the
House of Representatives approved

_ legislation that is a cause for great

concern. We’re talking about the kind
of thing that makes you say, “Stop
the world, please; I’d like to get of .”
I’m referring to the Bush
administration’s Energy Bill.

The bill was considered a triumph
by the current Republican Com-
mander— in— Chief because he believes
that drilling in Alaska’s Arctic National
Wﬂdlife Refuge is somehow important
to the nation’s energy needs. The truth
of the matter is that it is believed the
reserve will provide a supply of oil that
would last a mere six months. Does this
justify ripping up an area of the refuge
the size of South Carolina? Further-
more, this oil shouldn’t be available for
another 10 years. Clearly, this does
nothing to alleviate the current prob-
lem. Meanwhile, White House Energy
Secretary Spencer Abraham praised the
House’s actions “a tremendous victory
for America. . . an important step toward
meeting our long—term energy needs
and reducing our dependence on for-
eign sources of energy.” Riddle me this,
Secretary Abraham. How does a six-
month supply of a non-renewable en-
ergy source fulfill a long-term energy
need?

Here are a few more details about
this bill that have me a bit puzzled.
The bill in its entirety is an amalgam
of four bills produced by eight sepa-
rate House committees that will pro-
vide almost $27 million in tax breaks
over the next ten years for the “devel-
opment of energy sources, to be al-
lotted to the coal, gas, oil and nuclear
industries.” Keep
in mind that many
energy compa-
nies dipped into
their pockets to
fund goodold
George’s dodgy trip to the White
House. Furthermore, the bill is a prod-
uct of a three-month Cabinet level
study led by Vice President Dick
Cheney. Cheney conferred with vari-
ous interest groups to form the bill,
but, curiously, the White House con-
tinually refuses to name which groups
helped to draw up the bill. Could it
possibly be the same ones beneﬁting
from the $27 million in tax breaks? I,
for one, would prefer to know who

u

last or CENTER
NICHOLAS RAMSEY ‘O3

exactly is deciding America’s energy
needs.

What’s more, Bush continues to
call his planning ﬁscally responsible,
stating alternative energy sources are
too costly. With $9 billion of Social
Security surplus needed to fund the
budget (numbers supported by both
Congressional Democrats and Re-
publicans, but still questioned by the
White House), Bush’s
ﬁscal responsibility is
quite questionable.
Meanwhile, European
nations are researching
alternative energy
sources like oceanic underwater tur-
bines. The President’s home state is
now one of six using wind energy.
Windmill technology is now so ad-
vanced that one can power 300
households with a cost of just two
dollars more per kilowatt—hour than
fossil fuels. That is a ten-year ﬁxed
rate. With the current state of fossil
fuel supplies, those prices can do
nothing but climb.

One last important point is the

C(‘iL1(IT<§1’OFY;
DowNwrnrDruurNG:BusH’sPrAi\1ioDRun.r<ntEAr\l\lVR\toniDnrrn1nr£1ANnsoxrJE\tnH RIGSS.L\1lIAR”IO'[HlSO.\E

harm done to the environment. Stud-
ies now indicate that the vegetation
density in the Alaskan Arctic has in-
creased in recent decades in more than
half of the areas monitored by scien-
tists. Ask any biology major and he
will tell you that this means the tem-
perature in the region is climbing. In
his energy speech given in St. Paul,
Minn., on May 17, 2001, the President
stated that “we can build roads of ice
that literally melt away when summer
comes and the drilling then stops to
protect wildlife.” The fact still remains
that you have disturbed a natural eco-
system for a marginal supply of fuel.
Alternative energy sources were a
mere mention in the speech, clustered
together in one sentence, before Bush
outlined the plan that will line the oily
pockets of fossil fuel companies. It all
seems more of a thank you note for
campaign donations than planning
for the successful and responsible
use of America’s energy potential.
The bill’s fate now rests in the hands
of the Senate, so for now we play the
waiting game.

 

IFC/Panhe//enic Press Release

“In memory of President Elrod, the Greek community of
Washington and Lee encourages the entire student body,
faculty and staff of the University to come to the first
alcohol-free tailgate. Enjoy free food and live music and
celebrate W&L athletics with the spirit and support Presi-
dent Elrod gave to our athletic teams.

“On Saturday the 15th at 11:30 a.m., come join this
age—old tradition of donning ties and sundresses and
congregating as a community. Experience W&L spirit at
its best. IFC President Quincy Springs says, “Go for the
basic reason of supporting your football team and stay
for the duration. We want to show support for our broth-
ers and sisters on the field by attending the athletic
events.

“We’1l see you all Saturday.”

Additionally, brunch will not be served in the Dining
Hall on Saturday morning, but will be available free of
charge to all students, including those without a meal.

Kappa Alpha wins awards

Washington and Lee’s Kappa Alpha, Alpha Chapter,
was recognized by its national organization as the “Most
Improved Chapter” at the Order’s National Convention
and Leadership Institute this summer in Savannah, Ga.
The chapter was recognized because of its dramatic im-
provement in all areas of operation over the past year.
Achievements cited include the chapter’s 2.98 overall
GPA, its $3000 donation to MDA, and its success in
recruiting.

The chapter was also recognized with the top ﬁnance
award for conducting outstanding ﬁnancial operations,
demonstrating a thorough understanding of every aspect
of chapter ﬁnances, and maintaining a working budget
throughout the year.

  

PAGE 3

Car accident ties up traffic

Just before 5:20 on Saturday afternoon a green Ford
Explorer driven by Fiji Mike Hodge ‘02 of Marietta, Ga.,
struck a black Subaru Forester driven by a Lynchburg
resident at the comer of Nelson and Jefferson Sts. Neither
driver, nor Hodge’s female passenger, was injured in the
collision. Traffic was delayed until wreckers could remove
the two vehicles.

W&L unveils Customs, the new
freshman orientation program

Customs, the new program, is designed to introduce
first-year students to different areas of campus life: study
abroad opportunities, library basics, community service,
diversity, student judiciary procedures and campus health.
Lasting six weeks, activities include a world bazaar at the
dining hall, a jazz concert, volunteer projects and several
ﬁlms.

“We’re trying to provide something other than orien-
tation,” said Dean of Freshman Dawn Watkins. “Customs
provides a fun way to connect with campus life.”

Prizes such as skydiving and snowboarding tickets are
being offered to encourage freshmen to attend the sched-
uled activities. Although the activities are open to the
entire campus community, only freshman are eligible to
win the prizes.

Freshmen who attend at least one program from each
category will be entered into the prize drawing, scheduled
for Thursday, October 18. Freshmen are asked to swipe
their university cards or sign in to record their attendance.

“As far as I can tell, (the freshmen) are excited,” said
Watkins. “Attendance has been fabulous.”

Participating organizations include the Student As-
sociation for International Learning (SAIL), the Minor-
ity Student Association (MSA), Lifestyle Information
for Everyone (LIFE), Project Horizon and Habitat for Hu-
manity.

Restaurant closing for renovation

City Steak and Subs, which is now under new manage-
ment, will be closed on Friday, Saturday and Sunday for
renovation. It is scheduled to reopen Monday.

Tuesday

2*

   

7:30 p.m.— International Perform-
ing Arts Series. Music from Venezu-
ela. Irene Farrera & Aquiles Baez. Lee

7:30 p.m.— Film Society. “Amores
Perros” (Mexico, 2000). Directed by
Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu. In Span-
ish with English subtitles. Rated R.
Troubadour Cinema.

Saturday

Hall of Fame Weekend.

7: 30 p.m.— Film Society. “Amores
Perros” (Mexico, 2000). Directed by

Chapel. Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu. In Span-
ish with English subtitles. Rated R.
Fﬁday Troubadour Cinema.
Hall of Fame Weekend_ 8 p.m.— Sonoklect. Ahmad Jamal.
Lenfest Center.

 

Tuestlav. sentemher 12. 2001
A 9:00 n.m.

 
  
  

Room 221 1

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4

THE. Ruse-*i‘iTt»i PET
&L1EE  

AMYBIEVINS
W&I.l1'-E EDHOR
EMAIEE EDU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2001

Campus mourns loss of Elrod

Students, faculty, community to attend memorial service scheduled for Thursday, September 14 in honor of beloved former campus leader

  

FILE PHOTO / The Ring-i/M1 Phi
AT RIGHT-IN MEMORIAMI TEE [ATE ntEs1Di;\T AND Hrswirr. m.\\'rrtsE\tnH A srrDE.\T. Pkrsujevr El RODWAS l\‘i\‘O\V.\J IOR H15
C‘\Rii\GRElATK)i\YilPS\5(lllll<l|SSlL‘DE.\‘IS HEmm=DsrtDE\TsToHsH< >usErr>RDst\Ti1A\D\V;is.i(rT\smTntts~.\xr: ox carts
THEFiRoD’si~io\iE\vAsTiiEnA(£ ToRsrLDr.\TRErmio\s Kxoux FOR n1o\iDN;A Ho\iEroRARr;lciTs,TiiEl?TR(T)irT\1Eiiis
BEl30.\1EAPARl‘OFSTLDl~l\TllFE EutooAis>inDEsiR113rsiN\‘l&L’sAnrmcsLrr}ss. UsDat\EATH ErroD’s1EADi§niiEJ,\i0’&L\rAs
FIRSTNAMHDTO US. l\~’nrs t/:*WoRTD Rnoizfs IlSl'()FTOP .75 uermi . ARTS (I()llH;l§.

Five minutes with Dean Sessions
Acting Dean discusses new leadership role

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT

BY MIKE AGNELLO
Ass0c1ATE EDITOR

University President John Elrod
died on July 27 after a long bout with
cancer. Students, faculty,
administrators, and alumni praise
Elrod for his leadership and
character. ‘

Elrod leaves behind a legacy of
scholastic and professional
achievement. He served as President
of Washington and Lee and Dean of
the College from 1983 to 1995. In
addition to his accomplishments at
W&L, Elrod, a former philosophy
professor, was a noted scholar on the
phliosophical works of Hegel and

admiration of Elrod by attending his
July 29 funeral service in Lee Chapel.
Among those attending were Rev. Pat
Robertson ’50, Virginia Military
Institute Superintendent Josiah S.
Bunting HI, and University Rector J.
Frank Surface ’60.

Surface said he enjoyed working
with Elrod and admires his passion
for the university.

“We mark John Elrod’s death with
profound sadness,” Surface said, “and
we honor him by carrying out his wish
that Washington and Lee continually
strengthen its mission to fully
educating students in the principles of
honor, civility, and intellectual inquiry.”

Elrod perpetuated these

Kierkegaard. principles by carrying out his duties-.
Administrators ‘ _ In the last five

credit Elrod with ‘N0MATIERWH0liEWASWfIH,llEMADETT1E1\l years, the W&L

completing 1;H3[J~1~HEYW]3{EV[3RY]1(,1P0I(rAN-1~rIt()H1}‘y[” c a m pdu 3

W&L’s transition e x p a n e

from a declining IAUREMBOEISCH rapidly.

all - In ale ACTING PRESIDENT During

institution to an
academic powerhouse, begun while
Elrod was dean of the college and vice
-president for academic affairs.-
During his presidency, W&L
was first named among the top 25
liberal arts colleges in the country
by U.S. News & World Report, and
is currently ranked 12“‘.
Several university and
community leaders showed their

his tenure, Elrod
oversaw the contruction of sorority
houses and a parking garage.
Construction also began on the
University Commons, a new ﬁtness
center, and the renovation of Reid
Hall.

Dean of the College Laurent
Boetsch was named acting
president following Elrod’s death.
Philosophy Professor W. Lad

EDITOR IN CHIEF

Dean Sessions has been an active member
of campus life for three decades. Sessions,
a member of W&L faculty since I 971 is the
Chair of the Philosophy Department.He is
the University’s Jo and James Ballengee
250th anniversary professor

Sessions served as an associate dean of
the college from 1992 to 1995. Sessions
was acting Dean until Dean Boetsch’s
appointment in 1996.

Sessions holds a doctor of philosophy
degree from Yale, a masters degree from
Union Theological Seminary and a
bachelor ’s degree in English literature from
the University of Colorado at Boulder.

What impelled you to take up the
job? ~

As corny as it sounds, a sense of duty.
Self—iriterest (and maybe even prudence) lost
out to the call of the community. I want to do
the best I can for Washington and Lee in these
transitional times. This school is poised for

greatness, if we can sustain our momentum.

How long is your appointment?
I was asked to serve as acting dean of the
college for this academic year.

What do you hope to do while Dean?
I want to do my part in helping others keep
things running smoothly and well in the
College. I am particularly keen on
continuing to attract superb new teachers
(faculty searches) and in general
strengthening W&L’s profound
commitment to the liberal arts and sciences,
but there are too many detailed matters to
mention.

Are you eager to get back to
teaching, or are you considering
applying for the position fulltime?

I do miss teaching, though I have tried to
keep my student advisees (including six new
freshmen advisees) as a way of reminding
me about the central focus (student learning)
of this place. My crystal ball right now says

‘They are totally different, and have quite

.
ACENGDEAN
“back to teaching Fall 2002”.
Do you consider administrative work
as fulﬁlling as teaching?

different rewards and frustrations. I must say,
though, that committee meetings just don’t
measure up to the thrill of reading Immanuel
Kant.

  

Did

For the first time in 26 years there
know? were no students in the health center
during orientationweekend.

Sessions was named acting dean
of the college. Boetsch said he
most admired

said. Boetsch added that Elrod was a
joy to work with and to know on a
personal level.

“No matter who he was with, he
made them feel they were very
important to him . . . everybody was
his friend,” he said. “He had great
courage and decency.”

Sessions, who met Elrod in 1965
while they both attended Union
Theological Seminary in New York
City, said he has been grieving since
Elrod’s July 29 funeral. Sessions said
Elrod was an extraordinary husband
and father and a great man in addition
to being an excellent administrator.

“He was a kind, considerate
peacemaker . . . a role model in
character and self—discipline,”
Sessions said.

Student Executive Committee
President Rob Naftel ’02 worked
closely with Elrod on student
government issues. Naftel said he will
miss Elrod’s guidance.

  
    

PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY MATTEW MCDRMOTT/The Ring-tz4r/2 Pin

“He always was gentle but strong.
He was wise in ways that you took him
for what he said .

Elrod for his “HEWASAK]ND’C0NSIDERA]EpEACHwAKER__ . . you trusted
passion for the  Naftel said. ,
.university. 'AR0[EM0DE‘INCHARACH;‘RANDSHF' E 1 r o d
“ H i s DISCIPLINE” displayed this -
greatest legacy is W. LAD SESSIONS ’ ‘strength by
his great vision keeping his good
for W&L’s ACTING DEAN’ or THE COLLEGE nature and
future,” Boetsch professional work

habits throughout his illness. In one of
his final public appearances, he spoke
to several thousand cancer survivors
at Lexington’s “Relay for Life” and
participated in the event. Elrod insisted
a positive attitude was essential for
dealing with his illness.

“I don’t think there has been a
single day I haven’t felt positive about
life,” Elrod said. “I can’t imagine
living with cancer without this
attitude,” Elrod said.

Elrod was buried in Stonewall
Jackson Cemetery on Nelson Street.
He is survived by his wife Mimi, their
sons Joshua and Adam, and two
grandchildren.

The university community
will gather in Lee Chapel on
Thursday from 12:00 to 1:30 pm.
to celebrate Elrod’s life and work.

Sessions, when asked if he had
anything else to say about Elrod,
managed only three words.

“We’ll miss him,” he said.

snc 111123 PUHOJV moN

WALK DOWN MEMORY LANE: W&L students walk across the new circle installed in the walk leading up to the Co-op. The
circle reads: “In memory of the magniﬁcent hilanthropic support of Henry H. andd Anne G. Woods 2001.”

 

*Position open to students of any major.

 

Does $money$ excite you?

Chances are the l?i.ng—eLun Phi Business
Office is the place for you.

MM

5 , §

¢,:..,$.,.,; V. 5,,.....§   WA! ,,,  fee?
§M°‘‘’,2»t{% : 2 . z.i,w,§
*-...,,.se.s§, Se. ,.,e>‘w,.i...t '3,,,.,-/ six ,

°”’ll&:X‘§

Are you interested in working
for one of the university’ s
finmt institutims?

Contact Paul Seifert at seifertp@wlu.edu
for more infonnation or call the Phi office at X4060.

I and. wil ling pro speti:
i:::us iness endeavors.

 

in

ii
at

is

 

9’ Invitational Saturday.

, points.

   

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2001

T.l.lE. RtNt;~Ti;M Fl--ii

  

jEitEi\rYtRA1\i<iiv
SPORTS EDITOR

EMAri_-rRANi<iiN_]@wiii.i3Dii

PORTS

W&L sets th for str ason

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee volleyball coach Bryan Snyder
couldn’t have asked for a better weekend to open the 2001
season.

Snyder, entering his second year at the helm of the
Generals’ program, saw his team win three of four matches
in the W&L Invitational despite starting three freshmen
and adjusting to a new scoring system.

After breezing through two matches Friday, W&L
played two regional powers Saturday, knocking off Chris-
topher Newport in four games before dropping a four-
gaine match to Catholic.

“If we play as well the rest of the year as we played
against Christopher Newport today, we’ll have a great
season,” Snyder said. “Christopher Newport is better
than any team we beat last year. Catholic, with the ex-
ception of Emory, will be the toughest team we play all
year.

‘‘I’m very pleased with the potential that we have, and
I think we’re going to get better all year.”

First-year player Michelle Chastain was named to the
all-toumament team, while classmates Jennifer Lux and
Emily Wolﬁng played like anything but freshmen.

The Generals also got their first look at the new rally
scoring system. A point is awarded on each serve, and
games are won with 30 points instead of the traditional
15. Serves that hit the net and continue across are live
balls.

“It keeps the ﬂow of the game going, it makes it a lot more
exciting,” Snyder said. “It changes your strategy. If you get
behind later in the match, you have to play a little bit tougher;
if you’re ahead, you might have to play less aggressively.”

On Friday, W&L defeated St. Mary’s 30-25, 30-23,
30-27 and Shenandoah 30-24, 30-13, 30-18. Senior
middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert, also named to the all-

Field hockey oses
narrowly in 1st ever
varsity, ODAC game

FROM STAFF REPORTS

NORFOLK — The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey
team began their first season as a fully-sponsored var-
sity sport with a 2-1 defeat at the hands of Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference opponent Virginia Wesleyan.

The squad was upgraded to a full—tirne varsity sport last
December after competing under developrnental vaisity.sta—
tus. ‘ T

Wesleyan struck ﬁrst, scoring the only goal of the
first half at the 16: 15 mark. '

The Generals tied the match at the 48:28 mark when
sophomore Kelly Taffe scored an unassisted goal.

The game remained tied until Wesleyan’s Lindsay
Mike beat Deidra MacLeod for the game-winning goal
with less than ﬁve minutes left.

MacLeod made six saves on the afternoon.

The Generals return to conference action when they
travel to Hollins on Wednesday for a 4:30 p.m. match.

Generals open season with 2-2 tie

WASHINGTON — The men’s soccer team opened
their season by posting a 2-2 tie with non-conference
foe Catholic on Saturday.

The Generals found themselves in a quick hole when
Catholic scored just 2:30 into the game. After Dan Finn
scored for Catholic later in the first half, W&L needed
to ﬁght back from an early 2-0 deﬁcit.

Late in the first half, sophomore Jacob Stoehr scored
the first goal of the season for the Generals to cut the
lead in half. Senior Paul Wallace assisted on the goal.

The Generals pounded the Cardinals all day,
outshobting Catholic 27-6. W&L junior goalkeeper Tim
Foley made two saves on the day.

Another one of those shots ﬁnally found the net
when W&L senior forward Andrew Grimes scored near
the end of regulation off an assist from sophomore
Bret Grote.

The Generals host cross-town rival Vl\/II on Wednes-
day at 4 p.m. —

Duncan wins Va. Wesleyan Invitational

NORFOLK — Junior Burke Duncan led the women’s
cross country team to a fourth-place ﬁnish by winning
the Virginia Wesleyan Invitational with a time of 19:50 on
Saturday morning.

In W&L’s first meet of the year, Duncan was fol-
lowed by seniors Gretchen Tencza, who ﬁnished tenth
with a time of 21 :58, and Lucy Rankin, whose time of
22:48 was good for 21st place.

Eastern Mennonite won the team title with a total of
33 points. Roanoke (52 points) and Lynchburg (84) also
placed ahead of W&L, which ﬁnished with 92 points.

W&L men turn in second-place finish

NORFOLK — The Washington and Lee men’s cross
country team used a steady pace and a solid core of
runners in order to place second at the Virginia Wesleyan

The Generals ﬁnished with 70 points and followed
Roanoke, which won the team title with a total of 28

Sophomore Andy Schorr led the Generals with a
third—place individual ﬁnish, rumiing a time of 27 :32.
Junior Will Teichman ﬁnished in 29:03 to claim 12th
place and freshman teammate Steven Chambers fol-
lowed six seconds behind to take 13th.

Both cross country teams will compete in the Gen-
erals Invitational Saturday at 10 a.m.

MARY GLT/T/re Ring-tum PM

THE OLD AND THE NEW: (From left) Senior Leslie Fischbeck and freshmen Jennifer Lux and Michelle Chastain prepare to receive a serve from St. Mary’s in the
Generals’ 30-25, 30-23, 30-27 win Friday on day one of the W&L Invitational. The Generals opened the season by winning three straight matches before losing
in four games to Catholic. Chastain and senior Lindsay Ruckert were named to the all-tournament team.

tournament team, recorded 12 kills, three aces and six
digs against St. Mary’s. Lux contributed 37 assists
and seven digs.

The Generals beat Christopher Newport 30-23, 30-20,
21-30, 30- 1 8. Ruckert contributed 14 digs, 13 kills and four
aces, and Chastain had 12 digs and nine kills.

In W&L’s 24-30, 28-30, 30-21, 21-30 loss to Catholic,
Lux had 46 assists and 12 digs, and senior Leslie Fischbeck
tallied nine kills.

Snyder believes that the play of Lux is something that
the Generals didn’t have in 2000.

‘She’s learning everybody’s timing and tendencies, and
they’re trying to learn hers as well,” he said of Lux. “Last year, we
were very predictable. This year, Jennifer is good enough and
smart enough to move the ball all around and get all the offen-
sive players involved. She did an outstanding job all weeken .”

W&L plays Centre, LaGrange and Hollins in the Centre
Invitational Saturday.

Hornets handle Generals

Lynchburg resumes ODAC women’s soccer dominance with 4-1 win over W&L

BY DAVE CROWELL
Ass1sTANT SPORTS EDITOR

In last season’s Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship,
the Lynchburg women’s soccer team
needed three overtime periods and
a deﬂected shot in order to win 2-1
and end Washington and Lee’s sea-
son.

This time around, the Hornets took
advantage of some mistakes by the
Generals and ensured a safe 4-1 vic-
tory Friday.

In Neil Cunningham’s W&L coach-
ing debut, the Generals fell behind early
when Lynchburg’s Nicole Wisniewski
placed a shot just out of the reach of
freshman goalie Emily Barker.

Neither team managed to score
again until the second half, when
Lynchburg’s Suzanne Weller scored
the game—winning goal in the 59th
minute. Weller also assisted on
Lynchburg’s third goal less than three
minutes later.

Lynchburg’s tight defense slowed
the General’s attack all day, limiting
the front line 10 only eight shots.

“I think our lack of experience
showed during some lapses in fo-
cus and mechanics,” Cunningham
said.

A number of freshmen impressed
Cunningham, including midfielder
Romney Wilson, who moved around
the ﬁeld and cleared the ball very well,
and forward Maggie Hope.

W&L avoided the shutout when
senior Kate Bidwell scored their only
goal with less than two minutes left
on an assist from sophomore Fontaine
Marcoux.

“I thought for 80 minutes it was
very even,” Cunningham said. “For
ten minutes, though, we lost our fo-

Football falls
hard to Hopkins

FROM STAFF REPORTS

BALTIMORE — Washington and Lee managed just
164 yards of total offense as Johns Hopkins handed
them a 34-3 season—opening loss Saturday.

Senior Marc Watson, the 2000 Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Player of the Year, rushed for just 19
yards on 12 carries. Junior Chris Sullivan ran eight
times for 22 yards and caught two passes for 44 yards.

Sophomore Peter Dean, making his first start as
W&L’s quarterback, completed 14 of his 26 attempts
for 137 yards, but he also threw a pair of intercep-
tions.

Matthew Andrade’s 28-yard field goal and Adam
Cook’s three—yard TD run gave Hopkins a 10-0 half-
time lead.

Senior Brad Wiginton drilled a 35-yard field goal
with 9:40 left in the third quarter to put the Generals
within a touchdown. But another Andrade field goal
and three fourth quarter touchdowns put the game
away for Hopkins.

W&L meets Guilford in their home opener Saturday.

cus on defense, and you can’t do that
against Lynchburg.”

“You can get away with that
against most teams, but Lynchburg Macon fora4p.m.ODAC match.

 

MARY GLY The Ring-tum P/71

SEASON OPENER: Sophomore Meghan Hayde drills a goal kick in the Generals’ 4-1 loss to defending Old
Dominion Athletic Conference champion Lynchburg Friday at the Liberty Hall ﬁeld. W&L attempted just
eight shots against the Hornets, including senior Kate Bidwell’s late goal.

will make you pay.”
The Generals will return to action on
Tuesday, when they travel to Randolph-

: PAGE 5

SCOREBOARD

W&L INVITATIONAL

Champion: Catholic University
Most Valuable Player: Lindsey Sheppard, Christopher _Newport

All-Tournament Team

Lindsey Sheppard, Christopher Newport
Nina Richardson, Christopher Newport
Liz Carden, Catholic

Bridget Guetle, Catholic

Lindsay Ruckert, Washington and Lee
Michelle Chastain, Washington and Lee

Friday, Sept. 7

W&L defeated St. Mary’s 30-25, 30-23, 30-27

Christopher Newport defeated St. Mary’s 30-20, 30-22, 30-17
W&L defeatedshenandoah 30-24, 30-13, 30-18

Catholic defeated Shenandoah 30-17, 30-12, 30-18

Catholic defeated Christopher Newport 30-22, 30-23, 31-33, 30-25

Saturday, Sept. 8

W&L defeated Christopher Newport 30-23, 30-20, 21-30, 30-18

St. Mary’s defeated Shenandoah 21-30, 30-28, 30-21, 30-27

Christopher Newport defeated Shenandoah 3331, 30-16, 28-30, 28-30, 3015
Catholic defeated St. Mary’s 30-25, 30-13, 30-20

Catholic defeated W&L 30-24, 30-28, 21-30, 30-21

W&L SCHEDULE: SEPTEMBER 10-16

Tuesday, Sept. 11
Women's Soccer
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 4 p.m.

W&L vs. LaGrange, 2 p.m.
W&L vs. Hollins, 4 p.m.

Football

Wednesday, Sept 12 Guilford at W&L, 1 p.m.

Men’s Soccer
VMI at W&L, 4 p.m. Women's Soccer

W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 2 pm.

Field Hockey
W&L at Hollins, 4:30 p.m. Field Hockey

Randolph-Macon at W&L, 3 p.m.
Saturday, Sept. 15 ‘

Cross Country
W&L Invitational, 10 a.m.

Men’s Soccer
Averett atW&L, 3 p.m.

Volleyball (Centre Invitational)
W&L vs. Centre, 10 a.m.

I ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

Sept. 8 Results
Johns Hopkins 34, W&L 3
Bridgewater 49, Shenandoah 0

Riding
W&L at Radford, TBA

Ferrum vs. Emory & Henry

Sept. 15 Games

Catholic 28, Franklin & Marshall 7 Guilford at W&L
Guilford 28, Methodist 6 Bridgewater at Christopher
Hampden-Sydney 20, Gettysburg 14 Newport

Randolph-Macon 26, Christopher
Newport 10

Randolph-Macon at Denison
Emory & Henry at Sewanee

 

 

PAGE 6

  FALL

TIII; RlN('3«l‘UA'l PIII

PORTS

jI'«RI:«Iv1YFRAI\II<IIN
SPOKIS EDIIOR
FMAII: I=RAAI<IiI\I@wIDI3DII

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2001

Generals’ goal, plain and simple: return to top of ODAC

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

It’s been a long time since Washington and Lee took
home an Old Dominion Athletic Conference title, 1985 to
be exact.

But that’s not something that seventh-year coach Frank
Miriello and his Generals plan to live with for very much
longer.

“Our goal is first and foremost to get into position to
play for the conference title,” said Miriello, the 1996 ODAC
Coach of the Year. “Our last two conference games are
against Bridgewater and Emory and Henry, and they are
preseason picks to win the conference.

“Hopefully, we will take care of business early in the
season and be in position to contend at the end of the
season.” V

W&L returns two players who were arguably the
best on their respective units last year, fifth-year senior
running back Marc Watson and senior linebacker Jeff
Bahl. Watson set a school record with 1,325 yards rush-
ing and added 12 touchdowns in 2000, while Bahl led
the Generals with 108 tackles — 16 for a loss —— and five
sacks. ..

“Marc and Jeff bring excitement to the program,”
Miriello said. “Jeff is a captain and a role model for the
younger players in the program. He plays with a passion
for the game, he plays with intensity and enthusiasm.

“Marc can go to the house at any time. His ‘A—game’ is
as good, if not better, than any running back that has
played for the Generals.” .

Sophomore Peter Dean, a converted defensive back,
will handle quarterback duties after beating out classmate
Sean McGarvey in preseason practice. Junior Chris
Sullivan, one of a handful of players Miriello is expecting

to have a breakout season, will get the ball on handoffs
and through the air.

Bahl is not alone in the defensive front seven, as jun-
iors Matt Stavish and Andrew James and sophomore Ben
Krasnoff “possess good size and playmaking ability” at
the linebacker position, according to Miriello. Senior Jeff
Powell and sophomore Brian Becker will ﬂank sophomore
Jess Lipsey on the line.

“The strength of the defense lies in the front seven,”
he said. “Our defensive front three are as good as we have
had here in quite some time. The linebacker corps has
more speed than we have had in a number of years.”

But the Generals do have several question marks en-
tering 2001, namely in the secondary and on the offen-
sive line. Junior Mat Rapoza, a Second Team
D3football.com All-America selection for the now-de-
funct Swarthmore program in 2000, should provide im-
mediate help for the latter.

As for the secondary, senior cornerback Chris
Shortall and sophomore safety Lee Walker return. Jun-
ior Davis White, a pass—catching tight end in his first
two seasons in Lexington, has been moved to the other

. safety position.

“We are attempting to play with a little more speed on
the defensive side of the ball,” Miriello said. “Davis can
deﬁnitely help us.”

In addition to the Eagles and Wasps, Miriello believes
that the Generals must put forth a better performance
against teams such as Catholic and Harnpden—Sydney,
both of whom beat W&L last year.

Outside of the ODAC, the Generals are looking {br-
ward to most teams on the non-conference slate.

“We enjoy playing Johns Hopkins, Centre, Sewanee,
and in the past Swarthmore,” Miriello said. “Those insti-
tutions are somewhat similar to W&L based on the aca-

FILF. PH

FEATURE BACK: Fifth—year senior Marc Watson, shown here rushing for some of his school-record 1,325 yards in 2000, will look to lead the Generals
in their quest for their first Old Dominion Athletic Conference championship since 1985.

demic credentials for acceptance. They provide us with
somewhat of a ‘level playing ﬁeld,’ if you will.

“There is no opponent in the conference that pro-
vides us with a similar situation,” he added. “There-

fore, conference play is much more difficult week in
and week out. Our overall schedule demands that we
play our ‘A—game’ each and every Saturday. That is
not easy to do.” '

New coach doesn’t lower expectations for W&L in 2001

Women’s soccer team must replace 6 seniors and adjust to a new head coach after taking Lynchburg to 3 oveitimes in last year’s ODAC championship match

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Neil Cunningham era of
women’s soccer at Washington and
Lee begins this week, with high ex-
pectations but a note of uncer-
tainty.

Cunningham inherits the program
from Jan Hathom, who guided the
team for 14 seasons before resigning
last summer in order to concentrate
on the lacrosse program.

W&L returns twelve players from
last season’s squad that went 12-6 and
advanced to the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference championship, only

to be defeated by Lynchburg 2-1 in
three oveitimes.

“I’m excited to not build a team from
scratch,” Cunningham said. “I’ve in-
herited 12 experienced players that
reached the ﬁnals last year.”

Those experienced players will still
need to work hard to lead a dozen
freshmen that contain no knowledge
of last year’s emotional final.
Cunningham will expect leadership
from his three co—captains, seniors
Kate Bidwell and Drew Powers and
junior Jenny Thomas.

“The three captains are doing a
great job,” Cunningham said. “I’m
looking for all the upperclassmen to

show the freshmen what it takes to be
a leader.”

Despite a wealth of upper-class
experience, Cunningham still needs
to fill six spots vacated by gradua-
tion, including the goalie position,
where the Generals will miss Lauren
Harris.

Harris received First Team All-
ODAC and Second Team All-Region
honors last season, finished her ca-
reer with a 1.00 goals-against aver-
age, and made 20 saves to keep the
Generals alive in the ODAC cham-
pionship.

Cunningham hopes to ﬁll this va-
cancy with two freshmen, Emily Barker

 

BASICING IN THE GLORY: The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team poses for

Tall order for men’s soccerteam

Dominion Athletic Conference championship. W&L will attempt to follow up

a team picture after defeating Virginia Wesleyan 1-0 to win the 2000 Old on the most successful season in school history.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Veteran men’s soccer coach Rolf
Piranian has quite a dilemma in 2001.

The 26th-year manager must fol-
low up on the most successful sea-
son in school history, as the 2000
Washington and Lee team reached the
South Region ﬁnal of the NCAA Di-
vision HI playoffs before falling to
Christopher Newport.

“It’s obviously the best season the
school’s ever had, so that was a
benchmark for us,” Piranian said. “It
was a great year for us, so I think
we’ve got to understand that season
is behind us and start from scratch.”

The first concern for the Generals
will be replacing ﬁve seniors, four of
whom started, from a team that went
19-2 last season and won the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship.

“(Midﬁelder) Jon Wilson was one
of the better players I’ve had a chance
to coach here,” Piranian said. “’Ihere’s
a whole lot of chemistry that’s going
to be difficult to replace.”

W&L’s primary concern in pre-
season practice has been the lower-
than-expected performance of the of-
fense, which returns senior Andrew
Grimes and junior Brad Murphy,
among others.

“Right now we’re not scoring a lot
of goals,” Piranian said. “We thought
we should and could, but we haven’t
been. We’re still in the formative stage,
but I think we should have a very
good offensive team.”

Defense, however, should not be
a concern for the Generals. Juniors
Tim Foley and Brad Heam bring ex-
perience to the goalkeeper position,
and W&L also returns Second Team
All-ODAC junior Paul Negron and
senior Paul Wallace, who shares cap-

tain duties with classmates David
Kodack and Rick Schnatz.

At midﬁeld, 2000 ODAC Rookie of
the Year Philip Miller is back for his
sophomore season, and junior Sean
Hardin and sophomore Jacob Stoehr
are two of “quite a distinguished
group” of outside midﬁelders, accord-
ing to Piranian.

“(Defense) is important any time
of the year,” he said. “We see that as
it should be a strength. We think we
have a very good defensive club.”

Despite any preseason struggles,
the Generals should be prepared to
take on all comers in the ODAC in
defense of their title.

“We’ve kind of gone through a
bumpy preseason, so it could be a very
good team, but it could be a very aver-
age team if the kids don’t step up,”
Piranian said. “The potential is very
good on paper, but we haven’t seen as
much as we want to on the ﬁeld.”

Catch all the latest sports stats

in the Ph/7

and Abigail Pfeffer.

“We have two freshman goalies
and we might play them both through-
out the season,” Cunningham said.

W&L hopes to combat the inexpe-
rience at goalie with a strong, con-
trolling midﬁeld that includes each of
the three captains.

Leading this group will be
Bidwell. She’s found great success
at midfield, garnering three All-
ODAC selections while scoring 23
goals and adding nine assists dur-
ing her career.

Rounding out the midﬁeld will be
sophomore Heather Coleman, who
played in all 18 games and tallied eight

goals last season.

“I think our midﬁeld will be the
key,” Cunningham said. “Our success
will depend on our ability to control
the midﬁeld.” .

The defense will be led by sopho-
more Meghan Hayde and senior
Kristen Pranke, two players with ex-
perience at a key position.
Cunningham expects them to join the
three captains as the key leaders for a
young squad.

Sophomore forward Fontaine
Marcoux, First Team All-ODAC and
All-State as a freshman, returns to lead
the Generals’ attack. Marcoux scored
14 goals and added nine assists last

season.

Sophomore Susannah Hewlett
will complement Marcoux at forward
and create a potent one-two punch,
with freshman Maggie Hope receiv-
ing a large chunk of playing time as
well.

A number of freshmen should re-
ceive quality minutes, but the respon-
sibility and desire to avenge the heart-
breaking loss to Lynchburg will fall
on the upperclassmen.

“These seniors want to go out on
top and I think we’re ready to play,”
Cunningham said. “Practice is great,
but nothing is like the feeling of a real
game.”

l-

Java @ The GHQ presents . . .

The

Larry Keel
Txperience
Live at Java @ The GHQ

W&L University
Monday, September 10 @ 9pm

Stompin Appalachian Soul
with the 2—Time Telluride Festival Flatpickin’ Champion

www. larrykeel . com

(540) 291-1426

__J o

 

V W

    

 

‘ MONDAY, SERTEMEER 10, 2001

5 BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

p. The Washington and Lee field
hockey team enter their first season
at the varsity level, but they’re any-

‘ thing but inexperienced in both the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
and the NCAA.

“ The Generals compiled a 4-8 record
last season, their last as a club team.
Senior Allison MacQueen, who scored
a team—high eight goals in 2000, be-
lieves that the experience of the retum-

y ing players will give them a good start-
ing point for Division 111 competition.

“We will be playing many of the
same varsity teams this year,”
MacQueen said. “Teams change ev-

ﬁ ery year, so we don’t know what to
expect of other teams, and they don’t
know what to expect of us. The re-

a turning players bring a lot of experi-
ence, talent and maturity to this team.”
D Meanwhile, first-year coach
Wendy Orrison is anything but new

‘to the ODAC, as she has spent the
last four seasons down Interstate 81
at Hollins University.

' “I think my knowledge of the
ODAC teams will be useful,” Orrison

FALL SRO

‘Making the move to varsity

, ’ Field hockey mixes returning players with large freshman class in 1st season of NCAA Division III competition

PAGE 7

FILE PHOTO

CELEBRATION DAY: Members of the W&L ﬁeld hockey team celebrate after a goal at home in 2000, their last
season at the club level. The Generals moved up to NCAA Division III competition this year.

said. “I know some of the better teams
and players to watch out for, and I
also know some of the coaching
styles. This will help in game—day
preparation a good deal.”

Seniors Courtenay Fisher and
Carolyn Pressly will serve as captains

for the 2001 squad. The Generals also
return senior goalie Deidra MacLeod.
MacQueen believes that W&L will
beneﬁt from a talented freshman class
as well.
“Without younger players, a pro-
gram cannot continue to be competi-

tive,” she said. “We have eight fresh-
men this year who are great players
and will lead the team in the years to
come.”

Despite her hopes for the team,
Orrison is wary of two opponents in
particular this year: Wednesday’s
match against Hollins and the Oct. 17
tilt against ODAC power Eastern
Mennonite.

“The EMU game is always a big
contest because of their dominance
in the conference,” Orrison said. “I’m
looking for all of the games to be close,
well—played matches. It will be awk-
ward to play Hollins on the 12th, and
I don’t particularly look forward to it.”

MacQueen believes that the Gen-
erals’ success will depend upon their
collective mindset.

“Anything we want to do,” she
said of what W&L can accomplish,
“as long as the entire team is in each
game mentally.

“Our team looks very strong,”
MacQueen added. “We are very
strong, both offensively and defen-
sively. There are no weak players on
this team. I think Coach Orrison plans
on using our bench often to capital-
ize on the talent of the entire team.”

:New General, same mission for W&L

5, BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRTTER

g Inheriting a team that has never ﬁnished lower
than third at the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championship meet in 13 years, new Wash-

‘ ington and Lee women’s cross country head
coach Amy Schuckert has high hopes for this

4 season.

“Our No. 1 goal is to win the conference charn—
tpionship,” Schuckert said. “Also, we would like
to focus on a strong ﬁnish toward the end of the
gseason and have our sights set on placing in
the top ﬁve at the NCAA South/Southeast Re-

ogional Championship.”

Schuckert, a two—year captain of the cross
country and track teams at Allegheny Col-
9lege, was a six-time NCAA national qualifier
for the track team and a two—time qualifier in

. cross country. She also earned All—American
‘honors in the 800 meters and was a 12-time
conference champion in track and cross coun-

try.

After serving as the graduate assistant coach
for Pittsburgh State University in Kansas the
past two seasons, Schuckert assumes her first

head coaching role in Lexington.

Junior Burke Duncan and senior Gretchen
?Tencza, the team’s co-captains, form the core of

’Men’s team looks to keep

" BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRTTER

1'

Returning four of their top run-
. ners from last season’s team, which
finished fifth out of seven teams at
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
'ence championship, the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s cross country
‘team appears poised for a success-

ful season.
Head coach John Tucker, who
q helped the team bring home their first
championship in 1997, will welcome
back captains Ken J ackman, a senior,
and David Hicks, a junior. Junior Will
Teichman and sophomore Andy

’ Schorr also return.

Together with a promising recruit
1‘ in freshman Wes Bell, the men’s cross
country team has all the pieces in

I 5 place to make a return to the top of

the ODAC in 2001.
F “I think we have a great shot at
the ODAC championships” Schorr
‘ said. “With a tighter top seven run-
ners, we’ll be better able to challenge
9 and push each other than in previ-
ous years.”
Schorr, the top retumee, led W&L
in every race last season on his way

returning runners Schuckert will look toward.
Duncan followed up a solid freshman sea-
son with an even better sophomore campaign,
becoming the first W&L runner to compete at
nationals since 1995. She garnered All—ODAC
and All-Region honors for the second consecu-

tive season.

Schuckert said.

team and to be leaders.”

ships last year.

CI'0WIl.

to earning First Team All—ODAC hon-
ors, as well as All-State and All-Re-
gion accolades in his rookie campaign.
He is well aware of the rise in talent
on this year’s squad.

J ackman, the lone senior on the
roster, is a three—time Second Team All-
ODAC selection. He will be looked to
for leadership on the young squad.

“With only one senior and two jun-
iors, experience will play a huge fac-
tor,” Jackman said. '

Hicks will be out to improve upon
his sophomore season, which saw
him ﬁnish 21st at the Virginia State
Meet in a personal best time of 27:22.
He showed signs of excellence by
helping W&L to a second-place ﬁn-
ish at the Roanoke Invitational when
he ran to an individual ninth—p1ace fm-
ish in 28:47.

Teichman began last season
slowly, but came on extremely strong
to post a career best time of 27:33 at
the NCAA Regional Meet.

Bell, a heralded freshman from
Dalton, Ga., could prove to be a valu-

able runner for W&L. In high school, ’

he was a two—time captain and three-
time all-state selection in cross coun-
try. He wrapped up his career by fin-

She also improved on her third-place ﬁnish
at the ODAC Championships, turning in a run-
ner-up performance last year.

“Burke possesses the qualities we need to
lead from within — leading by example,”

With the graduation of the 2000 ODAC cham-
pion, Duncan is the top retumee in the conference.
Along with her fellow co—captain Duncan as
well as seniors Lucy Rankin and Lauren Paxton,
Tencza remains determined to “encourage the

“We all have the determination to improve,”
added Tencza, a two—time All—ODAC selection,
including a second—team pick after finishing 1 1th
with a time of 21 :38 at the ODAC Champion-

Faced with a tough schedule to prepare them
for the 2001 conference championships,
Schuckert and her squad are determined to
bring home their third consecutive ODAC

   

success running

Tor RUNNER RETURNS: Burke Duncan, the first W&L cross country athlete to
run in an NCAA national meet, is back for her junior season. The Generals
have a new coach, former Pittsburgh State graduate assistant Amy Schuckert.

,

READY TO RUN: The W&L men’s cross country team, hosts of the annual Generals Invitational, will
attempt to improve upon last season’s fifth—place finish in the ODAC championships.

ishing third in the state last season.

But with Bell suffering an early
season injury, the team must maintain
their composure.

Recognizing the need to remain
healthy down the stretch in October,
Jackman said, “We (the upperclass—
men) will have to help the team focus
on training and being tough mentally.”

W&L opened the season with a
second-place finish Saturday in the
Virginia Wesleyan Invitational.

  . Interested in having an active Voice
~ in Washington and Lee athletics?

., Join the P121’ sports staff.

Positions are open now for Writers to cover W&L fall sports,

9- including football, soccer, volleyball, ﬁeld hockey and cross country.

9 For more information, email Jeremy Franklin at franklinj@wlu.edu.

in the W&L Invitational on Friday. In a preseason coaches’ poll, the Washington and Lee volleyball
team was picked to win the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

Volleybal

team prepared for

run at ODAC championship

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssisTAxT SPORTS EDITOR

With the return of nine letter win-
ners and four starters from last
season’s 20-10 squad, the pressure
to succeed lies heavily on the Wash-
ington and Lee volleyball team.
Added to this pressure is a recent
tradition of winning, exempliﬁed by
the No. 1 preseason ranking in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

The Generals have appeared in the
ODAC championship game each of
the last six seasons, claiming victory
in four of the matches. Along the way
W&L has racked up 145 victories.

But don’t expect coach Bryan
Snyder’s team to wilt under a little
pressure.

“I think we’ll respond well,” the
second—year coach said. “We were
picked to win last season and were
in a very good position. Even after
some difﬁcult times, we came one

point from another championship (in .

a loss to Bridgewater).”

The main factor in W&L’s return
to the top will be senior middle
blocker Lindsay Ruckert, the ODAC
Player of the Year each of the last
two seasons. Ruckert also garnered
selections on the first-team All-
ODAC and All State teams each of
her three seasons.

Ruckert posted a team—high 322
kills last season and added 40 aces,
65 blocks and 215 digs. Entering the
season, Ruckert stands a mere 169
kills from breaking the W&L and
ODAC career record.

“Lindsay is one of our co—cap-
tains and does everything for us,”
Snyder said. “She is our best hitter
and one of the best servers and de-
fensive players we have. She under-
stands the game so well.”

Unfortunately for ODAC oppo-
nents, the Generals will offer one of
the strongest frontcourts in recent
memory, not just one scoring threat.

Senior co-captains Leslie
Fischbeck and Lee Charbonnet will
provide Ruckert more scoring op-

portunities while compiling their own
numbers.

Fischbeck came on strong at the
end of last year, posting 57 kills in
the ODAC tournament and garner-
ing an all—toumament selection.

Charbonnet missed a large part
of last season due to injuries but
earned second—team All—ODAC hon-
ors her sophomore season. Snyder
looks for Charbonnet to play a huge
role in detracting attention from
Ruckert.

In addition, two freshmen,

Michelle Chastain and Emily Wolﬁng, A

should immediately add more punch
up front. They come from strong vol-
leyball programs and will provide valu-
able size for the Generals.

“We will definitely have more op-
tions on offense,” Snyder said.
“Lindsay will be moving around a
lot and we should have at least four
consistent, potent scoring threats.”

One area where the Generals lack
experience is at the setting position.
Graduation claimed both of the set-
ters on last year’s squad.

Fortunately, freshman Jennifer

Lux stepped up during the pre—_
season and won the starting job for V

the opening game.

“She has looked great and has
exceeded all my expectations,”
Snyder said of Lux. “I believe she is
a step up from the past.”

Due to a change in the scoring»

system, the keys to success will be
serve, serve receive, and defense.

Under the new rally scoring, a point A
will be awarded with every serve, .

even with a sideout. Games will be
won with 30 points instead of 15.

The Generals’ defense will be A

strong with Ruckert, junior Stacey

Kimmel and sophomore defensive M

specialist Kari Lassen, all consistent
playmakers in the backcourt.
Regardless of rule changes, W&L

should offer a strong team capable

of living up to the pressure.

“The girls have been working real
hard and are eager to make a state-
ment after last year,” Snyder said.

Fnrsnmnu Fmowsnir

Fnrsnmtii: Bowl: mm Gel‘ run run Allll FEIIIIWSIIIP
on Tiiunsnnvs AT 6:30 Ill linmts limiiuusr.

Great Wﬂv I0 IIIBBI IIIIIBI‘ IIGSIIIIIBII
and unnerclassmenl

SPACE DONATED BY THE RING-TUM PHI

 

RY GUY / The Rirzg-rim: Pi '
NET PLAY: Senior Lindsay Ruckert blocks a ball during the Generals’ three—game win against St. Mary’s ‘

    
 

£T>§RNe"." I

Nsmi:

Tar. (I2-max: 0? THE i..xt=F.72MI5.
Wxm:  '13. ¥F...m,mEs_.S1=<,.ms,
()1>:xr<>.\'s

‘K

Lmezq L~‘«.Y(}1."1‘

3?‘

   

235$ EX‘!’i';'Ri

 

 »

CRUITM

 

 

QLI TKENS
D0 ym: \>m'r‘1*r;'1:-xrgv. ramx‘
22¢ 124:2‘ ‘L1NMB.sz'1‘x"s x>az';.~m:z<
r;x"1‘zzA;u:1uc::r:.«:xz ()R($ANIZ.-‘{l'i{)N?

Du was wax  Ti") 23:: W11‘ 01- A 1(I4~
‘3Ai{~{:L1i) 'num'rLo; 3‘

1);: mm wan‘? TO Mrrnr we
_1é0i>.:\~1.u':zs AT THY PHI?

 

 

}»E«:>:\1>.'n', S '

University nee.

  

U

K

A

A

5

8.

#

