  
   

I,:.,,, 3 ENSEDE

‘ea; be i>t:.'rt':u'».s<? l‘.ii:E4

 

TEE

 

  

 ‘GTQN ANSI) LEE U.

LNG-TUM

iErEEsi’rY

 

PHI

 gii unwmsm‘
  

 

14

('3:>i\*E’>?\:s: 2
2003 l-~o.in.:<:  4
Si-’<>l<T.€ o

8

S<;<;-itE:EriiE:>
The Phi resumes
regular publication Oct. 22.

 

li.ia:>;:'>.=.:‘:'o.\, \."7iR(xE\'l -i 2445.-ll

arinxy, t1l;=t:i<_>:si:..i '  ‘ ‘Z

 

BY NEAL WiLLErrs
C0_\‘TRlBL'TlNG Eniioi

A four—alarm fire on Randolph Street left
a local woman hospitalized, her family home-
less and their student neighbors frightened at
3 a.m., Tuesday.

The fire, at 210 Randolph St., gutted and
destroyed the home of Patricia Blackwell and
her two teenage sons. The Lexington Fire De-
partment said the fire was started by a candle in
one of the bedrooms.

Within minutes after the fire started,
Blackwell and her sons ﬂed and warned next-
door-neighbor, Jane Rogers. As Rogers and her
husband were leaving their house, the Blackwell
home was erupting into a blazing inferno.

‘‘It was engulfed in ﬂames when I came
out the door,” Rogers said. “(The house) was
gone in no time.”

Another neighbor, Kim Mierzwa, was retum—
ing home from work when she saw the ﬁre. She
called 911 on her cell phone, and local police and
fire departments responded within minutes.

Within half an hour, the ﬁre was contained,
and Blackwell was treated for smoke inhalation
at Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

The fire’s heat melted siding on Rogers’
house and blew out some of her windows, and
damaged the attic before it could be controlled.
Virginia Power was dispatched to turn off a sec-
tion of dangerous, loose power lines.

At least six student houses are located on
Randolph Street. Junior Kris Pollina lives across
the street from Blackwell, and was awakened
by the crackling of the broken power lines.

“I wouldn’t wish that on my worst enemy,”
Pollina said.

E-mail news briefs to
hi@wlu edu

maintain extinguishers and “hands—on” use.

Voter registration ends tomorrow

Maggie Hope and Anne Johansen.

F/re extinguisher training in library
Occupational Safety and Health Association
standards require that if employees are expected to
use an extinguisher to put out a fire that they must
be trained in the use of ﬁre extinguishers. To meet
this requirement and to provide training for the W&L
community, the university will offer fire extinguisher
training during Fire Prevention Week, Oct. 7-13.
Training will include information on the classes
of fires, extinguishing agents, how to operate and

Daily classes will last about one hour and will
be conducted in Northen Auditorium in Leybum
Library. For times and more information, call Uni-
versity Safety Officer Paul Burns at 463-8175.

The deadline for registering to vote in Virginia’s
gubernatorial election is tomorrow, Oct. 9. Voter reg-
istration deadlines in other states vary. Those inter-
ested should stop by the registrar’s office for regis-
tration forms or go online and check the “Voter
Registration” link at http://registrar.wlu.edu.

Freshman election runoff tomorrow

Will Kilpatrick was elected freshman class
president and William Powell Student Judicial Coun-
cil representative. A runoff will be held tomorrow
for the executive committee candidate between

 

NEAL WIu.ETI's/ T/re Ring-in/)1 P/)7

Pollina and a roommate moved their cars
down the street away from the blaze. How-
ever, another roommate, junior Leah Robert,
was not as lucky. The heat melted her car’s
driver—side door.

One side of junior Randy Keeney’s house
faces Blackwell’s house. His roommate woke
him up before the ﬁre trucks arrived.

“From our window, the orange glow lit up
our common room just like a bunch of
nightlights,” Keeney said.

Blackwell and her sons visited the site
at about 9 a.m. later that day. While they
were rummaging through the debris, smoke
began pouring from the smoldering re-
mains. The fire department was called
again as a precaution, but the fire did not
re—ignite.

Blackwell and her sons are currently stay-
ing with relatives. Neighbors said the family did
not have fire insurance. However, the family was
able to salvage a few items from the home. One
of these items, an American flag, was hung on
the house’s front wall.

Fire destroys Randolph St. house

Neighbors rush to the scene as flames gut builiding on block heavily populated by students

 
   

, F..—\. \l’11i.iaris/ The Ring-trip; Pfll

FIRE’s TOLL. The blaze (upper left), caused by an unattended candle, left only the
skeleton of the house standing. The fire forced students to move their cars.

Students push for safer driving

Operation GASD proposes comprehensive sober driving system

BY MIKE AGNELLO
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Students waiting as long as 30 min-
utes for a sober ride home from par1ies
could become a thing of the past.

Generals Advocating Sober Driv-
ing (GASD), a new student orgarriza-
tion forrned to enhance Live Drive
and Safe Ride’s efforts, has planned a
tentative van route that would stop at
fraternity houses as well as popular
off-campus party spots.

Senior Neely Baker, GASD co-
chair, said Live Drive and Safe Ride,
while a good start, are not enough.

“Our goal is to develop a compre-
hensive sober driving system for the
W&L community,” Baker said.

While Live Drive and Safe Ride
vans respond to calls, they also stop
wherever the driver sees students
congregating, and go wherever the
students want.

Although this works for some stu-
dents, many others wait up to 30 min-
utes for a van because some off—campus
houses are so far. GASD plans to solve
this problem by having a set route that
includes on- and off-campus locations.

The tentative route would start
at the Lee Chapel parking lot, pick
up students at the dorms, the park-
ing garage, the post office,
Davidson Park, the Coin Laundry
(on the corner of Randolph and
Henry Streets) then go to the Pole

Outing Club announces classes, trip

Starting tonight, the Outing Club will be hold-
ing kayak roll classes in the pool from 8 to 10. For
more information contact Jerome at x4065.

A white water rafting trip to the Upper Gauley
River has been scheduled for Sunday, Oct. 14. This
trip has over 60 major rapids, many of them Class
V+ whitewater. To participate, you must be a com-
petent swimmer and rafting experience is preferred.
Attendance at Wednesday night’s meeting is re-
quired. The cost is $140, which can be charged home
or paid in cash or by check.

Film Society releases schedule

October 19, 20—“Moulin Rouge!” (Australia,
2001), directed by Baz Luhrmann.
November 2, 3—“Pollock” (USA, 2000), di-
rected by Ed Harris.
November 9,10—‘”The Day I Became a Woman”
(Iran, 2000), directed by Marzieh Meshkini.
November 30, December 1-—“Apocalypse
Now”, “Redux” (USA, 1979/2001), directed by
Francis Ford Coppola
All screenings are at 7:30 p.m. in the Trouba-
dour Cinema.

House area and Windfall Hill. Stu-
dent-driven vans would stop at each
location roughly every 10 minutes.

GASD designed the route after
compiling a list of off—campus houses
and determining the easiest access
points for students wanting a ride.
Baker said she hopes Greeks and in-
dependents will contribute their
ideas. She said GASD needed repre-
sentation from a cross sec-
tion of the student
body to legitimize
their proposal.

Other ideas for
GASD’s route in-
clude installing ‘i
blue benches and
direct-dial phones at
the various stops. Senior
Baxter Lee, GASD treasurer, said he
is working on getting the Telecommu-
nications office to employ a dis-
patcher on weekend nights to assist
the vans’ drivers.

Dean of Students David Howison
is willing to help fund the program.

“When they decide on the pro-
gram, I’ll come up with the funds,”
he said.

Howison and GASD officers dis-
agree on the number of vans needed
to adequately run the program. GASD
wants ﬁve, while Howison wants to
initially fund only three.

Howison would not comment on
the difference.

CRIME REPORT

Sunday, Sept. 30

Tuesday, Oct. 2
Phi fraternity, last seen Sept. 15.
Wednesday, Oct. 3

Friday, Oct. 5

curse and abuse. 3:28 a.m.

Trespassing. Individual arrested by Lexington Police
for trespassing on W&L property. 12:45 a.m.

Vandalism. Passenger silie mirror broken off car some-
time between Sept. 29 and Sept. 30.

Missing item. Missing table lamp reported by Pi Kappa

911 call. Alumni House. 3:15 a.m.
Fire alarm. Woods Creek West. 8 p.m.

Assault and trespass. North Main Street. University Se-
curity and Lexington police called to off—campus house to
assist W&L student who wanted a visitor removed. Vistor
was issued a trespass notification and arrested for assault,

Information provided
by Unversity Security.

  
  
      

“We’re still very much in the plan-
ning stages,”"Howison said, “but
we’re making great progress.”

GASD has already received a $150
donation from the Panhellenic Coun-
cil. Parrhel President Katie Cedarholrn
said the council wants to help GASD
in whatever way it can.  *1

“We had the funds available and
we felt so strongly about the worthi-

ness of the cause,”
Cedarholrn said.
The Interfraterriity
Council is also
considering fund-
ing GASD. IFC
President Quincy
Springs said Lee
will prepare a list of
preliminary expenses, and
the IFC will pay those costs if they can
afford the price tag. So far, these ex-
penses include 5000 stickers advertis-
ing the organization. Lee said GASD
plans to mail information on the orga-
nization to every W&L parent.

GASD was formed earlier this
year after a joint leadership retreat
for the IFC and Panhel. Howison
said he admires GASD’s leaders
taking initiative in forming the or-
ganization, and hopes. it will ac-
complish its goals.

“I’m very supportive (of their
goals) and tremendously impressed
with their thoughtful consideration of
this issue,” he said.

Frats give up
drinking games

Alcohol strikes crush Homecoming plans

BY KATIE HOWELL
LAYOUT EDITOR

Possible violations of the new campus alcohol
regulations affected students and organizations the past
few weeks as one fraternity received a strike and sev-
eral students face possible charges.

University officials have accused Beta Theta Pi,

1 Phi Gamma Delta, Phi Delta Theta and Pi Kappa Phi

of drinking violations within their fraternity houses,
Interfraterrrity Council President Quincy Springs said.

The University Initiatives on Substance Abuse
approved by faculty and administration last spring
states that individual Greek organizations on cam-
pus may not have drinking games in the university-
owned houses.

Dean of Students David Howison said, “Drinking
games are a violation of the policy and constitute a strike.”

Per these policies, Fiji received a strike, $1000
ﬁne, two weeks social probation, alcohol education for
all its members and required community service hours
following the actions of ﬁve brothers inside the house
over two weeks ago. University Security caught mem-
bers of the fraternity and other students participating
in a drinking game. The [FC and the university took
appropriate measures following this incident.

Springs said the IFC handles all cases of violations
of the new alcohol policies regarding fraternities.

Fiji will appeal its case to the Student Faculty
Hearing Board later this week. A possible outcome of
this meeting could involve removal of the punishments
placed upon the fraternity. Punishments placed upon
individual students would remain in place, however.

“The fraternity was initially pretty upset about the
situation, but (it has) realized that rules have been vio-
lated,” Fiji President Bryan Carmody said. “This is a
harsh punishment, but it shows that the University is
serious about the alcohol rules, and we have decided
to move on.”

Even if the university lifts Fiji’s punishments in
the next few days, the fraternity will have already suf-
fered through two weeks of social probation during a
time period that included Homecoming Weekend.

“I don’t think that (the punishment we had this
weekend) will affect our rush,” Carmody said. “The
attraction of our fraternity is the quality of our guys.
Missing one party will not affect this.”

While Fiji suffered severe punishments following
drinking games inside the house, Beta received less
serious penalties. University Security found students
playing a drinking game in the fraternity house, said
Springs. The students involved included one fraternity
brother and four freshmen.

“There is tension in the system, and we had to work
it out the best way we know how,” Springs said.

Since only one fraternity brother was involved in the
situation, the IFC decided that Beta’s individual House
Judicial Committee should handle the problem. The coun-
cil will tum the individual’s names over to the Student
Judicial Council, however, and let them handle the situa-
tion according to individual alcohol policy violations.

“This situation was a problem because high—risk
drinking was made available to underage students,”
Springs said. “It could have been a potential disaster.”

Phi Delt and Pi Phi also faced potential charges.
In both cases, the IFC found the situations irrelevant to
the council’s policies.

University officials found drug paraphernalia in a
student’s room of the Phi Delt house. The IFC turned
this case over to university officials, who will take ap-
propriate action.

Rumors accused Pi Phi of serving Ritalin in jello
shots in the fraternity house. The IFC reviewed this
case and found the rumors untrue.

“The rules have now been tested,” Howison said.
“We are only a month into the system, and people now
know that drinking games are not appropriate.”

 

Construction disrupts library

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF WRITER

Graham—Lees residents trying to sleep in
past noon are not the only ones inconvenienced
by the construction of the University Commons.

Leybum Library, which is adjacent to the
site, was forced to part with its loading dock
that was used to receive shipments.

“I’m not happy about it,” said Barbara
Brown, head librarian.

Currently all library shipments, which in-
clude books, computers and furniture, are de-
livered and unpacked at the main entrance. The
lobby that once housed public phones is now
the make—shift mailroom. The library staff has
found that empty boxes distract patrons.

Big shipments require a group effort. Ev-
ery three weeks, the library receives large
batches of re-bound books delivered to the
Physical Plant. A passenger van then delivers
them via the walkways on Stemmons Plaza.

Right now, Brown is working with Univer-
sity Architect Tom Comes to ﬁnd a short—terrn
solution that will accommodate both the con-
struction and the needs of the library.

Brown said extending the service road that
runs behind the Science Center to the Physical
Plant is a possibility.

The university recently brought a library
consultant to the site to make recommendations.

Planners must considef the university’s new
traffic initiative, which aims to reduce the number
of vehicles on campus. A primary goal is “trying
to get those big trucks off campus,” said Contos.

Making the campus more pedestrian
friendly may require that all packages be handled
through the university mail services.

In the meantime, the library staff will have to
put up with the extra noise. Patrons continue to
use Leybiurr’s resources, making it a warehouse
of information.

“We just need a place to bring it in,”
Brown said.

 

PAGE 2

SflRfl3l3PEDITORlAL

We’re no rah-rah rag,
but with good reason

The Phi hates Washington and Lee.

That’s what you would believe, anyway, if
you talked to the few malcontents peddling that
sort of garbage. An extended version of this
anti-Phi screed was recently launched at an
editor innocently enjoying the Lambda Chi
Tropical Party.

The Ring-tum Phi has earned that reputa-
tion among this ill-inforined minority because,
we suppose, it ran a comparison of Co-op prices
with those of local retailers. Or it discussed stu-
dent representation on the presidential search
committee. Or whatever.

This hardly equates to complaint-mon-
gering.

And if the Phi’s editorial page brings to
light perceived problem, what of it?

After all, nothing’s worse than a rah-rah
rag, which sacriﬁces objectivity to boosterism
and professionalism to prejudice. Since nearly
all high school newspapers are cast from that
mold, most W&L students are familiar with that
type of journalism.

At the Phi, however, we dig for stories and
sometimes step on toes. Hardly an issue goes
by when someone asks us not to print a minor
or not-so-rninor point.

Luckily, the university administration trusts
the Phi. We have no sponsor (read: “censor”
overseeing every page prior to printing. There
are no biweekly meetings with the Faculty Pub-
lications Control Board, which sets down rules
on semicolons and sex scandals. President
Laurent Boetsch has not installed a hotline from
the second ﬂoor of Washington Hall to 31 Wash-
ington St.

This admittedly can cause unfortunate epi- '

sodes. Doubters should consult the 1993 April
Fools’ edition, which ran an exposé on faculty
trysts, chronicled the rampages of sex-mad
administrators and printed an extended middle
finger on half of the opinions page. Excess is
the avoidable, regrettable and ever-potential
result of autonomy.

That doesn’t mean that the paper should re-
sign itself to stories headlined “fraternities thank
administration for three-strike policy” or “Laurent
Boetsch, my hero.”

It does mean, though, that you can expect the
Phi will always be honest and forthright, yet not
the University’s cheerleader.

' kinds of events.

..—.4..._.—.... ,.~._ _.._#...

Q TEE li.lN(3~TU:‘»l Pl--ti.

PINIONS       

rim .i l i. r\ll\\.\r[L\
OPINIONS Enrror
E.\tt11;i<1R\\':t\B@\twE1)tJ

Alcohol policies not so bad

Tailgating is great, but strike system, parental notiﬁcation need to be rethought

Last year, Washington and Lee stu-
dents, faculty, and administrators decided
it was time to take a stand. The misuse of
alcohol was leading to death, destruction,
and embarrassment. While the ultimate
goal is to modify the culture, as this will
be the only way of encouraging the re-
sponsible and prudent use of alcohol, we
mustkeepinmindthatourunpopularrules
and restrictions are needed temporarily.
Parties are more manageable, safer, and
less focused on alcohol. _

Still, we must continue to evalu-
ate our alcohol policy, asking our-
selves one important question: Are
we moving to modify our culture (the
appropriate choice), or are we legis-
lating alcohol away from this univer-
sity (the dangerous, irresponsible
choice)? Our goal is not to legislate
change, but to guide people to change
the way they view alcohol.

Perhaps the greatest innovation
stemming from the policy are the new
and improved tailgates. While I’m not
sure that prohibition is the best method
of making tailgate the university—wide
social gathering it’s supposed to be
(people will simply drink before or dur-
ing tailgate), having the D—hall cater
food at tailgate is an excellent idea.

This idea brings a wider variety of
students to tailgates, which makes tail-
gates more dynamic by offering other
social options than simply getting
“trashed.” Catered tailgates also encour-
age those who drink before tailgate to eat.
This kind of environment could turn into
a breeding ground for controlled, respon-
sible drinking. I encourage those who are
responsible for formulating aloohol policy
to find ways of en-
couraging these

 

The strike sys— »

COMMON SENSE
joN.=\rEA.\' WORTHAM ‘O4

 

l‘lll:I)H0'II)

BOOZELESS FUN?! Tailgates provide an alcohol—free way to get excited for games.

has reportedly shied away from indi-
vidual responsibility concerning alco-
hol (which is the only way to prepare
students for life outside college), noti-
fying parents can be erroneous and
ineffective. It is ridiculous that my par-
ents could be called for somebody
else’s alcohol
abuse. My parents
can do nothing to
change the behav-

 

tem contrasts with
the effectiveness
and pragmatism of the new tailgates. It
is unlikely that the University’s new
three-strike system is effectively elimi-
nating high—risk behavior. In fact, it is
probably leading to more high—risk be-
havior, as much drinking moves behind
closed doors. Perceived selective en-
forcement of the rules further weakens
the strike system.

However, the most ineffective por-
tion of the strike system is the notiﬁ-
cation of parents. Since the university

ior of someone

who is not their child (and in some 7

cases even if it is their child). I am not
opposed to parental notification, but a
different, more effective, and more re-
ciprocal format should be used to com-
municate to parents the happenings
of fraternity house life. _ _ __ 
One part that isucompletely lack-
ing in the new policies is personal re-
sponsibility. One goal of the alcohol
policy should be to encourage behav-
ior that will be concurrent with accept-
able behavior in post—college life.

Drunk driving is very irresponsible
and results in stiff fines or jail time in
most communities.

At Washington and Lee, we can
enforce individual ﬁnes or penalties
through the Student Judicial Council.
It is widely agreed that drunk driving
endangers other people, but appar-
ently not by the SJC. I say this be-
cause the suggested penalty in the
2001-02 Student Handbook (p. 30) is
suspension. However, in looking at
the SJC notes, I have failed to find
any students suspended for this.

Overall, Washington and Lee is
moving in the right direction. Parties
have been safer, and leadership has
been in control of parties instead of
drunk people. But we cannot rest on
our laurels. We must continue to ac-
tively investigate ways to encourage
and protect controlled, responsible
drinking. It is the only way to elirni—
nate the dangerous weekend situa-
tions that sometimes occur.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

DON’T WORRY, rr’s
NOT FOR PHI STUFF
ANYWAY.

— ANONYMOUS PHI AssOcrArE EDITOR
AFTER ASKING FOR THE PHI’s LONG
DISTANCE TELEPHONE CODE

THE 

Editor-in-chief MatthewB.McDem1ott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor AlisonTrinidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLatimer ‘
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Dave Crowell
Katie Howell
Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks
Paul Seifert
William Litton
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Jeremy Franklin H W N

Letters to the Editor

Students have opportunity to pick president

Dear Editor,

I object to the (Sept. 24 staff) editorial’s claims that
students are not given a substantial voice in the presiden-
tial search process. Students have every opportunity to
make their voice heard, and need to take that initiative.
Leadership does not occur by passively waiting for oppor-
tunity to come to your dorm door. Rather, one needs to
actively seek, and participate in, the opportunities offered.

Opportunities available to the entire student body have
included the Lee Chapel forum and student forums run by
McLoughlin. A contingent of about 10 students (the exact num-
ber I do not recall) were invited to a lunch with the consultant.

In addition, the search committee has invited all mem-
bers of the W&L community to communicate directly with
the committee or with the consultant via email. This invi-
tation was sent by broadcast email. If any of you felt that
the Lee Chapel forum was a joke, then you had the oppor-
tunity to communicate your thoughts on the presidential

A search with the consultant more directly via email.

Finally, even if the broadcast email announcement
had not been made, one could have taken the initiative to
contact a member of the committee simply by asking a
member of the administration for names of contacts.
Sincerely,

Julie Fitzer ‘O3

Jones claims he cited work

Dear Editor,
“Last week two articles in the Ring Tum Phi accused me
of plagiarism (Ben J ones)?’ “I cited Jeny Seinfeld in full when

 
 

piaio:is:.Edrtor Bret:  atkirwanb @w1t: .edu ifinteresteél;

I wrote the Trident’s back page two weeks ago (Ben Jones).”
“A simple call to The Trident office will confirm the fact that I
cited all of my work (Ben Jones)?’ “For some reason, my
citation was not published- this is not my fault (Ben Jones)?’
“I am a huge Jerry Seinfeld fan and I would be just as upset as
Matt Coursen and John Powers (sic) if I believed his jokes
were ripped off (Ben Jones)?’ “I do not hold it against the Phi
or either of the two individuals who accused me of this, how-
ever I encourage them to investigate their stories more thor-
oughly in the future (Ben Jones)?’ “I wish that both of these
individuals had called The Trident to check whether or not I
cited it before they publicly berated me, however, this was not
done and nothing can be done after the fact (Ben Jones).”

“I re-iterate; I did nothing wrong (Ben Jones)?’ “I’m
telling you for the last time (Jerry Seinfeld), I always cite
all of my work and I always will (Ben Jones)”

Sincerely,
Benjamin Jones ‘03

Editor ’s Note:

It has come to our attention that Ben Jones
did provide citation for his piece in last week’s
Trident.

Matt Coursen’s article addressed informa-
tion available at press time and represented
Jones’ work fairly and honestly. John Power’s
piece in the last Ring-tum Phi was a letter to the
editor.

His statements should not be construed to re-
ﬂect the opinions of this newspaper or its editors.

 

MaNsr?,oc;m 8, 2001

Women are   *
the doomed ones 

Jones’ p/agarism not as bad
as his toenail-cur/ing boredom * .

With so much crap being passed off as journalism
today, I feel it is my responsibility to ridicule it. For this 3
reason, I have chosen to write about the exposition on
human relationships, entitled, “Men, you are doomed
so just give up.” ’

Granted it has already gotten its sufficient share
of denunciation. But most of those diatribes were just ,‘
pointing out the issue of plagiarism.

So the author made a mistake. Be nice, we’re all . V
friends here. You could be probably be little more cre- ‘‘
ative than noting the obvious. I

Women, by and large, are idiots. They have lu- ,.
dicrous ideas about men, and how to trap them.
Which is no real H _
g.’°““ Surprise “ ORTHElh\‘ER’S EXPOSURE I
since they derive
their schemes from 

KRIS POLLINA ‘03 g
magazines that

boast headlines like, “Quiz: Does He Love You?”
“What He Really Means When He Says, ‘Pass the ‘
Carrots,” and “300 Mysteries About Men Solved.”

How these publications survive is long stand— 9
ing puzzle since any moron can summarize a man’s
ultimate desire in the simple statement, “Show up g
naked. Bring food.”

Women everywhere are still perfecting the art of ‘
dressing on the guise that they “just threw on any old
thing,” and applying makeup so it doesn’t look like
they’re wearing any. 4

My personal favorite is when a girl scoffs at men
who honk at them and then feed off the ego/conﬁ-
dence boost for a week. We should be thanking those
morons who honk. Who’s to say they’re not just an-
gels placed on this earth to prevent widespread de- I‘
pression amongst insecure women?

, The amazing thing is that women’s tactics seem to 1
be working. As much as men may bitch and moan about
the inherent evil and manipulation skills women pos- ’
sess, they still fall prey to it.

It’s like a very bad street drug of sorts, where mean
always swear that it’ll never happen to them. Then it ‘
does, and it’s always tomorrow that they plan on quit-
ting. But the longer the relationship prolongs, the more
difficult it is to get out of, at least without some sort of
mental crippling. _‘

Evidence of our success is prominent. If you look
around campus, you can see women driving men crazy
everywhere. Do you think these are special, gifted, civi- a
lized women? These are the same lunatics I’m talking about.

In the end, men win out and get them in bed.

The marriage ceremony and following party are4
tragic. The party itself must be a man’s design because
there’s no way a woman would think of ordering a six-
story cake after suffering through weeks of anorexia to 9
ﬁt into her dress.

No woman would condone making out in front of ‘
everyone just by virtue of a g1ass—tinking. It was a
man’s idea to show everyone else there, “She may have
gotten me to marry her, but at least the ceremony af-*9
fords me some ass so all is not lost.”

I was recently the Maid of Honor at a wedding.
(Author’s Note: Not really, but for the sake of the sat-
ire, let’s pretend I was.) I’ve got to say that I think
“Maid of Honor” is the crafty work of a male English‘
major. The juxtaposition of two completely different
connotations evens everything out. ,,

“Maid” insinuates a creature of servitude, while
the term “honor” implies a revered mark of distinction. -;«
The two words cancel each other out and leave you
with a neutral euphemism for boring. Probably another
man’s idea. Trick us into thinking we’re special, but‘
really were all the same to them.

A lot has been made recently of “hooking up” at
W&L. This is basically because everyone wants to 7
avoid covering a mundane topic like Lexington His- _
toric Sites. If they cover something cool like “booking or
up,” they will be, by proxy, cool.

To women, sex is like a review of Cats: “I laughed.

I cried. I’ll do it a am and a am.” >
g g

To the Women’s Forum: Please don’t burn stakes
on my front lawn. Everything is grounds for a harsh
Letter to the Editor or a forum to protest any new de-
cree. Take it easy, it’s all in good fun.

So that’s my mindless rebuttal against that notori-
ous article in The Trident a few weeks ago, complete
with incoherence and devoid of transitional sentences.
I could care less if the writer copied the Gettysburg 4‘.
Address verbatim.

The real tragedy is not actual plagiarism, but in “-
being boring. It’s like Jack Nicholson said in as As Good
As It Gets, “If you don’t have anything mildly interest- ,5
ing to say, then shut the hell up.”

That’s sound advice.

   
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
    
   
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
       

“Illuminati.”
-Phelps Harmon ‘O1

‘They vote among themselves.”
—Jeanne Upchurch ‘O3

   

“Scott Gray . . .”
-Wogan Bernard ‘O3

“Eastem Europe (they’re weird
like that).”

—Brooke Evanson ‘O2

   
  

  

"The unemployment
line.” A )»
-Rvan Owen ‘O3

  
  

  

.-.~.

1?

   

to

. MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2001  , 

 Liberal fascism threatens intellectual liberty On campus

PAGE 3

Seemingly innocuous T-shirt attracts attack from passerby while on Sunday afternoon stro//; manners, decorum fall prey to unrestrained ‘groupthink’

GIRL POWER: It is not powerful enough Amazonian Masterhood (N O MA’AlVI).
Bundy sports the style that drew much
criticism when worn by our columnist.

to sway Al Bundy, a member of the
National Association of Men Against

Some people just don’t under-
stand freedom, it seems. They sup-
port it entirely when it concerns them-
selves. They ferociously protest
against anything that might impinge
upon their liberties. Yet, when you
want to exercise the same freedom,
they will not hesitate to jump on you
and attack your freedom.

I am talking about extreme liberals
and their intolerance of opposing view-
points. I began thinking about this sub-
ject when I was in the co-op, standing
in line to pay for my purchases,and a
complete stranger looked at me, got a
sick look on her face, hissed loudly
“disgusting,” and walked away.

Let me explain to you more fully
the circumstances. I was wearing a
“NO MA’ AM” T-shirt, which for
those of you unfamiliar with the show
“Married With Children,” is an acro-
nym for “National Organization of
Men Against Amazonian
Masterhood,” which Al Bundy, the

rruzim 'TOn;OOI .HIH:.FR

main character, and his friends
founded on the show.

It is, in short, an anti-feminist
slogan, and the t—shirt comes com-
plete with a big slash through the
woman symbol. A very provocative
shirt to feminists, to be sure, but
one must also realize that the t—shirt
is a joke. _

Not only was I wearing it on a
Sunday afternoon, when I would hope
that few people care (or notice) what I
wear, but more importantly, the actual
“NO MA’ AM” concept itself is ajoke.
Those who wear the “NO 
shirt generally mean no offense by it,
much less do they seek to make a genu-
ine political statement.

My attacker, on the other hand,
tried to make a statement by publicly
humiliating me in my taste of clothes.
The way she looked me up and down,
then spat out the words, and stormed
off, was meant to do as much damage
as possible.

Now I completely respect this lady’s
viewpoint——it’s her right, after all, to be-
lieve as she wants———but I must take ex-
treme offense at her extreme intolerance
and prejudice, not to mention her lack of
civility. I have seen her around campus
several times since then, and each time I
have smiled and said “hello,” in keeping
with our speaking tradi-
tion, and each and ev-
ery time she has failed
to respond in kind. My
only offense, as far as I
am aware, is wearing that T—shirt that one
day. Talk about being judgmental.

Let me make it clear: I am not an
anti—ferninist. I fully support women’s
rights, and think that anybody who be-
lieves otherwise is just plain dumb. The
T—shirt was a joke. But I draw the line at
militant feminism, where a woman thinks
she has the right to humiliate a man in
public for his views, but should he do
the same to her, may God have mercy on
his poor soul. The same male chauvin-

ism that women complain about is mir-
rored in “feminazism.” Neither side is
right, for most people will tell you that
extremism of any fonn is wrong.

What irritates me most is the way
this lady has completely avoided me,
and has never invited me to discuss her
problem with my T—shirt with her. In-

‘ stead, she has chosen

WRIGHYWING  to let her anger funre

inside of her while ig-

IMRAN NAEMULLAH  noring the issue at

hand. Not only is this
behavior cowardly, but also detrimen-
tal to the friendly atmosphere we have
on campus. After all, if we continue to
become a more diverse campus in
thought as well as otherwise, then tol-
erance of other viewpoints is a must.
The only way to do this is to discuss.
Do not let the freedoms that we
Americans believe in so ardently be
stolen by those few who would seek
to have their own freedoms valued
above others.

    

jvirginia GOP ticket chock-full of anti-homosexual bigots, opposed to gay marriage

‘F

C’

9

Last week Mr. Kirwan gave the readers of this paper
the many reasons he believes you should vote for Mark
Earley in the Virginia gubernatorial election next month. I
am going to provide you with one that should change
your mind: both Earley and Jay Katzen, the GOP candi-
date for lieutenant governor are bigots.

How so you ask? I realize that is a very harsh and
bold statement, but I believe there is great truth behind it.

These two candidates are running a campaign that is both
insulting and extremely demeaning to the gay and lesbian
citizens of this state.

I wish to begin with the Republican candidate for
lieutenant governor who has been quite outspoken on
the matter. In July of this year, Jay Katzen told the Rich-
mond publication Style Weekly, “AIDS is the product,
sadly, in most cases of a choice that people have made.

“We recognize that homosexuality is a choice. It’s a
lifestyle with public health consequences.” He also stated he
feared repealing Virginia’s archaic, unenforceable sodomy law

. as it would be “laying the framework for gay marriage.”

Firstly, the fact that in this day and age a man who
feels he is suited for an important state office believes
homosexuals choose their lifestyle is both frustrating and

V unforgivable. This is evidence that Katzen sees homo-

-O

f

sexuality not as a natural difference in sexual preference,
but rather a sexual perversion.

Later in a joint radio appearance with Democratic Lt.
Governor candidate Tim Kaine, Katzen accused his oppo-
nent of trying to kick the Boy Scouts of America out of
Richmond schools and allowing gay-straight alliances to
meet in those schools. Kaine told the Republican he knew
of no effort to remove the Scouts, nor had he heard of any
alliances meeting in the schools. However, Kaine made a
point to say that he saw no problem if either of those
groups wished to meet in schools and told

This is actually a dodgy twist of words spoken by Tim
Kaine.

The former mayor of Richmond actually said, “Gays
and lesbians should not be discriminated against in hous-
ing or employment.”

These ads came from Republican gubernatorial can-
didate Mark Earley who said “. . .(the) promise of the right
to life liberty, and the pursuit of happiness belongs to

every man, woman, and child.” The words

the audience he had “no opinion” on the LEFT OF CENTER of his speech, entitled The Pronrise of Vir-

Scouts’ discrimination against gays. , girria, were evidently not meant to include
In this radio address Kaine proved  homosexuals.

himself to be a fair and understanding in- Earley went on to say in this same

dividual who was able to ward off the bigoted insults of speech, “...I promise to be a candidate and run a earn-

his opponent.

Moreover, the Republican gubernatorial candidate
Mark Earley is not without blame in this gay-bashing on-
slaught. He has been running television, print, and radio
spots, predominantly in Virginia’s rural areas, touting the
slogan, “Virginia Values, not Vermont Values.”

This is obviously referring to the idea of gay mar-
riage. Earley and Katzen have been calling their oppo-
nents, Democrats Mark Warner and Tim Kaine as the most
liberal ticket in Virginia’s history.

GOP radio ads have been stating that one of the two
Democrats wants “to legalize gay marriage in Virginia.”

paign worthy of your support, your conﬁdence, and the
faith you have placed in me. I will endeavor to unite and
not divide; to clarify and not confuse, to be led by prin-
ciple, and not by the polls.”

Well, Earley was right about one thing. Some polls
ﬁnd him trailing Democratic opponent Mark Warner by
fourteen points. This is a sign that the GOP’s actions are
being seen as nothing more than an embarrassing attempt
to appeal to the lowest common denominator, and not as a
viable political tactic.

Furthermore, just to the Commonwealth’s north
Maryland’s Gov. Parris Glendening has put the full sup-

port of his ofﬁce behind passage of a statewide gay civil-
rights bill to ﬁnally move that measure through his state’s
legislature. Moreover, Washington, D.C., ﬁnds gays and
lesbians serving openly in all levels of its government.

So, this begs the question, what is so wrong with
Virginia supporting a measure to allow gay marriages? In
my humble opinion, nothing. While Warner and Kaine
have not openly supported such legislation, they have
not run campaigns so strongly against it like their Repub-
lican opponents.

Republicans continue to use their religious beliefs
which they believe deﬁne homosexuality as a sin. No state
legislation would force any church to recognize gay mar-
riages. This would allow civil marriages between gays and
lesbians that are performed by state ofﬁcials.

Religions may continue to do as they please in re-
gards to who can and who cannot marry. But, I do not
think that our state legislature should have power to say
who should and should not be allowed a civil marriage
license.

But most importantly, Virginia does not need a gover-
nor and lieutenant governor with such backwards, big-
oted ideas. Either gay or straight, every citizen of this
state deserves elected ofﬁcials that will both represent
them, but more importantly respect them, regardless of
sexual orientation. A

ESE="l1i.E;$§§i3?I.Zt - !;‘I?i’s.lE“l“i%.l!I;?*ffTl?*-itlll 9

as Rtairssras co:-
an "§%"l?S’;F ‘._"a.%,.:§I..lr£:.E§~a‘::tIa’-—‘..,E“’t.f..‘.t?.'*% :5. ,.aF:;i?a:r A ‘E..3T~*Z§‘iCi'W£?3+"I“0al‘-it - mam

.- at -3  Fara Tarts

RELAY FOR LIFE

T-SHIRTS.
$8-12

CALL X8490 FOR MORE INFORMATION

SPACE DONATED BY RING-TUM PHI

SPRING BREAK 2002!!! Student Express is now hiring sales reps. Cancun features FREE
meals and parties @Fat Tuesdays—MTV Beach Headquarters. Acapulco, Matazatlan, Jamaica,
Bahamas, South Padre, Florida. Price3s from $469, with major airlines. 24,000 travelers in 2001.
Call 800-787-3787 for a FREE brochure or email:

bookit@ studentexpress.com. www.studentexpress.com

BUSINESS. . .
DID THAT GET YOU
HOT AND BOTHERED?

TALK TO US. . .

OPPORTUNITIES IN AD
SALES, AD DESIGN--HELP A
LARGE ORGANIZATION

MANAGE COMPLEX FINANCES

CONTACT SEIFERTP@WLU.EDU

 

iPm

THE R§N{'§~”i‘'d .3
PAGE4   .  Mom, ocrom 8, 2001 ’

.9;

   

 
 

HOMECOMING 2001. (Top) The Catholic Cardinals ﬁnd their wings plucked by the Victorious Generals.
(Below) Galactic, a New Orleans—style funk band, unleashed soulful tunes at their preformance in Doremus
Gymnasium. (Middle) Cheerleaders frolic on the ﬁeld. (Bottom) Alumni relax in the shade of large tents "
erected across the street from the ruins—the first dme in recent history that the location has been used for

tailgating events. .9

2001 Homecoming Court

Queen

Stacy McLough|in ‘O3 (Nominated by Chi Psi)
Escort Tom Atwater ‘03

First Runner Up

Agnes F|ak‘03 (Nominated by SAIL)
Escort Raphael Penteado ‘03

2nd Runner Up .
Lizzy Swann ‘02 (Nominated by Kappa Alpha) ~

Homecoming 2001

 

MATH-IE\X’/MCDERMOITAl\1D KATIE HOWELL
SUPERVISINGPAGEEDHORS
EMAIL-PH1@\mJ£DU

MONDAYCOCTOBER 8, 2001  ii     PAGE5

HOMECOMING 2001. (Center) Homecoming Queen Stacy Mclloughlin strides across the football field with escort Tom r\t\\'ater.

, ‘ A ‘ , ' ' . . ‘ .. ‘ J) ,3 A _ . ' _ ' '
(Below) The nominees for Homecoming Queen and their escorts anxiousl} aw alt the announccment of the .001 xx inncr. Blustcrmg Mm WWW of The Cal”
GROSS: Former Homecoming Queen Catharine Christian is one in a

long line of crowned unfortunates forced to kiss Professor Keith
Shillington, a thankfully discontinued tradition.

gusts of wind kept the maids, escorts and Viewers chilly throughout the ceremony.

 

PAGE 6

Defense turns in ste ar performance,
W&L finds ways to score in ODAC victory

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee forced three turnovers in the fourth
quarter and held Catholic to just 19 yards rushing to pull
out an 18-12 win on Homecoming Saturday at Wilson Field.

The Generals scored 11 points off a fumble on a punt
return and an interception by senior Chris Shortall, and
sophomore Ted Mafﬁtt’s interception in the ﬁnal minute
sealed the win for W&L.

“We came out with the intensity that we had last
week (against Randolph-Macon),” said Maffitt, who
picked off a Derek McGee pass and returned it 55 yards
to the Cardinal 11-yard line with 34 seconds remaining.
“Our defense stuck it to them. This win was huge for
us.”

After taking a 12-7 fourth quarter lead on a 32-yard
Greg Stokes ﬁeld goal, Catholic forced a three-and—out.
But on the return, senior Jeff Bahl knocked the ball out of
Denis Campbe1l’s hands, and sophomore Andrew Bahl
recovered it at the Catholic 5-yard line.

Two plays later, senior Marc Watson plunged into
the end zone from a yard out, and sophomore quarter-
back Peter Dean found Watson for the two-point con-
version and a 15-12 lead.

“We made a statement that we didn’t want to lose two
games in a row, and that didn’t work,” Watson said. “We
weren’t going to lose two conference games in a row.”

McGee ﬁnished the day with 241 yards on 22-of—53
passing. His second quarter TD pass to Nick Bublavi came
with 13 seconds remaining, prompting the Generals to step
up their pressure in the second half. _

The sophomore was sacked three times after the break,
twice by Jeff Bahl and once by freshman Matt Larsen. On
several occasions, McGee saw on-target passes fall
through the hands of his receivers.

“They dropped some passes, which helped us a little
bit,” W&L coach Frank Miriello said. “We got a couple
of big sacks and a turnover out of Ted Mafﬁtt. We ap-
plied some pressure to them, and those kids put the ball
on the ﬂoor.”

Junior Chris Sullivan opened the scoring at 14:12 of the
second quarter with a 19-yard touchdown run. The Cardi-
nals then slowly strung together 12 straight points on

Golfers beat Guilford by a
stroke in Aubrey Apple invite

PORTS
Welcome he: Generlso Cat

Tl-fit: RINCS-~Tl,?'I\If ‘Pitt

jERE'MYFRANkIlI\l
SPORTS EDIIOR
E\IA1l;FRAI\HGlI\1]@Al«1L‘.E11l

THROWING ON THE RUN: Sophomore Peter Dean ﬁres a pass
in W&L’s 18-12 win over Catholic Saturday at Wilson Field.

Bublavi’s TD, a safety on a botched punt snap and the
Stokes ﬁeld goal.

Watson’s score put the Generals up for good, and se-
nior Brad Wiginton’s 31-yard ﬁeld goal following Shortall’s
pick ﬁnished the scoring.

Sullivan, who ran 35 times for 202 yards and had 300
yards of total offense in W&L’s 28-24 loss to Randolph‘-
Macon on Sept. 29, had just 80 yards on 31 carries against
the Cardinals.

“They really had us scattered well,” he said. “It
wasn’t there today, at least not as much as last week.
You can’t have games like that every week. We defi-
nitely had a more spread-out, balanced attack this
week.”

BY DAVE CROWELL

IVIARY GL‘Y/ T/Jr Ring-lrrrrr P/11
Dean completed 19-of-32 passes for 154 yards. Cardinal
defenders Scott Lutte (97) and Jeff Tabery are in pursuit.

The Generals will look to go to 3-1 in ODAC play next
week when they travel to Hampden-Sydney. They’ll also
attempt to avenge another loss from last season, but Catho-
lic — which beat W&L 47-0 a year ago — was the big one
for now.

“After the way they beat us last year, it’s hard to
describe in words how good this feels,” Sullivan said.
“You’ve got to take it one game at a time. Every game
looks winnable. It’s a matter of whether you show up
to play. M

“We definitely have a shot at (Hampden-Sydney). Our
defense has got to be ready for all the trick plays they
threw at us last year, and our offense has just got to do
what we know how to do.”

Old, new blood keep W&L rolling

Volleyball team reaches halfway mark of ODAC season with undefeated record in league play

MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2001

. .
Oll C l 8 - l 2  
I , i S '
VI/in could turn W&L 3 season around I
BY JEREMY FRANKLIN ‘
SPORTS EDITOR
A week ago, Washington and Lee’s football season jg
appeared to be headed in the wrong direction.
The Generals were 1-3, one year after starting 4-0 against
the same four opponents. Randolph-Macon had scored A
with 15 seconds left just seven days earlier to steal a win
away from Frank Miriello’s team. »
Next up was Catholic, which had crushed the General
by a 47-0 score in 2000. Excuse anyone who had doubts T
about how W&L would finish up in 2001. ‘

“Catholic had a huge game against us last year,” senior
Jeff Bahl said. “We were really thinking about it.”

Now it’s the Cardinals’ turn to think, as W&L eked out an
18- 12 win Saturday before a Homecoming crowd of over 4,700.

“It’s a tremendous boost for us,” Miriello said. “We’ve

got to keep moving on, and use this to springboard us to '

a few more big wins.”

The Generals are now 2-1 in the Old Dominion Athletic g

Conference, and one 95-yard drive away from being 3-0.

Instead of falling apart after playing the Cardinals, they 4‘

appear to be on their way up. _
“Last year, Catholic just destroyed us, and our season

went downhill from there,” said sophomore Ted Mafﬁtt, 9

whose 55-yard interception return in the ﬁnal minute pre-

vented another last-second loss. “This shows we can play g

with anybody in the ODAC, and we’re here to stay.”
Bahl, who sacked Catholic’s Derek McGee twice and
forced the fumble that set up the game-winning touch-
down, echoed his teammate’s sentiment.
“We can play with the best, we’ve beaten the best,” he
said. “Now we’re rolling into some teams who have had a

V

lot of trouble with Catholic in the past. As far as our con- q

ﬁdence is concerned, we’re not doubting ourselves.”
W&L has yet to reach its peak level, if the number of
problems Miriello noticed provides any indication. '
“First downs were just terrible,” Miriello said. “We can’t
get into long second-down situations. It kills us.
“I don’t think we kept them off balance enough,” he
added. “They zeroed in on what we were doing. We’ve

4

got to keep people off balance better, and that’s what‘

we’re going to work on this week.”

But if the Generals can make that many mistakes and '7

still beat one of the better teams in the ODAC, things are
looking up for the second half of the season.

great beneﬁt for this team,” Snyder

4

$
»é

1

FROM STAFF REPORTS

KERNERSVILLE, N .C.—The
Washington and Lee golf team
placed sixth out of 13 teams at the
Greensboro Aubrey Apple Invita-
tional, held Saturday and Sunday at
the Pine Knolls Golf Club.

The Generals shot 294 each day
of the competition, placing a stroke
ahead of the Quakers in the overall
standings. W&L ﬁnished second to
Guilford in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championships
back in the spring.

Senior Kyle Ulep (70-71) placed
fifth in the individual competition
at 141. Junior Chip Campbell (71-
73) shot a 144, followed by fresh-
man Ged Johnson (75-75) at 150
and junior Chuck Green (78-75) at
153.

Senior Curtis Bethea (82-76)
ended up outside of the scoring
at 158.

Averett shot a combined 573 to
win the team competition, followed
by Methodist (576), Oglethorpe
(581), Greensboro (581) and Savan-
nah A&D (584).

Roanoke, the third ODAC school
present, was 10th at 610.

The Generals also placed ninth
in an 18-team field at the Guilfordl

Tom O’Bryant Invitational, held
Monday and Tuesday at the Cardi-
nal Golf & Country Club in Greens-
boro.

W&L’s two-day total of 616 was
a combined 28 strokes behind the
toumaInent’s host, which ﬁnished in
third place. For the Generals,
Campbell (75-76) and senior Ulep (78-
73) tied for 24th at 151. Green (79-77)
was 46th at 156, and Johnson (78-80)
placed 53rd at 158.

Bethea (83-83) and junior David
Haase (82-87) finished out of the
scoring for the Generals.

Duke won the team event with a
score of 582, and Brad Clark was the
medallist with a combined 137 for the
Blue Devils.

Oglethorpe was second at 585,
followed in the team standings by
Guilford, Savannah A&D (591),
Methodist (592), Greensboro
(596), Averett (604) and Ohio
Wesleyan (613).

Four other ODAC opponents
competed in the Guilford invite.
Lynchburg placed 13th at 637,
Hampden-Sydney (641) was 14th,
Randolph-Macon (642) ended up
15th and Bridgewater (661) fin-
ished 17th.

The two Triad-area invitationals
ﬁnished the fall season for W&L.

AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team used dominant perfor-
mances on all areas of the court to
land two victories against Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College and East-
ern Mennonite and maintain a per-
fect conference record.

The Generals (15-3, 5-0 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) received
a heavy dose of senior leadership in
an impressive 30-19, 30-15, 30-18 vic-
tory over the WildCats on Tuesday.

Senior middle blocker Lindsay
Ruckert led the way with 14 kills,
six digs and three blocks. The two-
time ODAC Player of the Year also
continued her destruction of W&L
career records by serving one ace
and breaking the career service ace
record of 158 held by 1992 graduate
Leslie Hess.

Senior Leslie Fischbeck notched
nine kills and ﬁve blocks, while class-
mate Sara Heusel added seven kills
and ﬁve digs in a match that saw the
Generals control the entire way.

“I personally think that we can be
a very dominating team,” coach Bryan
Snyder said of his squad’s penchant
for ﬁnishing matches quickly. “But
when we do get to 20 points, we usu-
ally buckle down and put together a
nice string of points to end the game.”

ationlly rnked oonents t

UNDERT1-IE
LIGHTS:
Washington and
Lee freshman
Kitt Murphy
reaches for a
loose ball in the
Generals’ 1-0 loss
to 19th-ranked
Lynchburg at the
W&L Turf Field
on Friday night.
(Photo by Mary
Guy/ T/ye Ring-
tum P/J2)

ONLY A FRESHMAN?:] ennifer Lux goes for
an assist in W&L’s 30-19, 30-15, 30-18 win
over Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Tuesday at the W/arner Center. In just her

In Saturday’s Homecoming game
against Eastern Mennonite, the
freshmen got the opportunity to
perform center stage. First-year

players Jennifer Lux and Emily Wolf- -

I\l.-\R\’ GLW/ T/Jr Ring-lrrr/1 P/Jr"

first year of collegiate play, Lux is close to
breaking the school record for assists in a
season. She has 588 with ﬁve ODAC

g21IIl€S and t\VO tournaments CO g0.

ing came up with key serves and
important plays to ensure the 30-21,
30-19, 30-23 victory.

“The mix of freshmen and senior
leadership is without a doubt a

said. “The freshmen are very used
to the system and the style of play.‘
Now that we’re halfway through
the season, they make very few
‘freshmen mistakes.’ ,

“Seniors provide the experience,
but freshmen often bring the ﬁre and
enthusiasm to the court.” 1

Lux amassed 29 assists, giving her
54 for the week. She already stands in g
the all-time W&L top ﬁve for assists
in a single season at 588, with five
conference games and two touma-“‘l
ments left before the ODAC Tourna-
ment in November. ‘

Ruckert totaled 12 kills and six digs
on the afternoon, while Fischbeck
added 10 kills. Junior outside hitter”
Stacey Kimmel tallied seven kills, three
aces and nine digs. A

The Generals enter the second half
of their ODAC schedule with conﬁ-3
dence, certain that a strong work ethic
can help ‘them continue the success
of this season.

“One through 15, we come to work '
hard in practice,” Snyder said. “We
put effort into every practice and it
shows up on the court. Seeing tough
competition in practice really prepares )
us for the matches.”

§

The Generals travel to Sweet Briar y .'

today for a 6:30 p.m. conference
match, hoping to remain undefeated V
in ODAC play.

oo much for 1st-year program 

0rrison’s field hockey team stll experiencing growing pains in inaugural varsity season vi 3

The Cardinals didn’t seem to take their lead very well, , 0

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

There are times when being the new kid on the block
means getting beaten up a little. Such was the case for
the Washington and Lee field hockey team this week-
end.

Friday night, Lynchburg handed the Generals a 1-0 loss
at home. Junior Linda Jack scored the only goal of the
game with 24:30 left to play in the second half, assisted by
junior Kyla Hoffman.

Lynchburg, ranked 19th in the nation, improved to 11-
1 overall, 5-0 in Old Dominion Athletic Conference com-
petition, while the Generals dropped to 2-7, 2-6 in the
ODAC.

Sunday afternoon saw a chance for Catholic Univer-
sity to avenge its football loss from the previous day. The
Cardinals took an early lead, scoring three goals in the
first 22 minutes of the ﬁrst half. The Generals were forced
back on the defensive for most of the game, unable to
pressure Catholic.

as sophomore forward Danielle Deon received a yellow
card with 2:43 remaining in the game.

The Generals used this advantage to ward away the 1*
shutout, and with 1:27 remaining, sophomore Jessica Lake
scored off of an assist from senior Allison MacQueen.‘
Nevertheless, the 18th-ranked Cardinals held off the Gen-
erals for the remainder of the game. , ,

Coach Wendy Orrison noted that the team has been
starting slow.

“We had a much better second half, and we played»;
more as a team,” she said. “We have trouble coming
out strong.” $

She pointed out that Lynchburg and Catholic are4

both excellent teams that are years into their pro--y

gram.
“We’re a first-year team, and that means we have to
work harder, but we’re up to it,” Orrison said. . 1'
The Generals host St. Mary’s of Maryland Saturday
at 2 p.m. at the Washington and Lee University Turf
Field. i

 

 

MONDAY, UCTOBER 8, Zlllll

 
  

BY IAN R. MClLROY

‘ ‘ SPORTS WRITER

. g The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team garnered two big wins this
Homecoming week to improve their
2001 season record to 8-2.

On Wednesday, the Generals
moved to 7-1 in the Old Dominion

.1 Athletic Conference with a 4-0 win

§ at Emory and Henry. Then, the
team scored a season-high seven
goals as it shut out Ferrum on Sat-
0 urday afternoon.
With these two impressive wins, the
* Generals have gained considerable
momentum with just over two weeks
left until the ODAC Tournament.
“The caliber of play on this team
has been quite high this week,” first-
’ year head coach Neil Cunningham
said. “We’ve been able to go right
5 through the roster, and everyone on
the squad has benefited from valu-
V able playing time.”
In the win over Emory and Henry,
. freshman forward Maggie Hope,
sophomore midfielder Fontaine
Marcoux and senior midﬁelder Kate
‘ * Bidwell all tallied one goal and one
assist each.
With a goal midway through the ﬁrst
4 half, sophomore midﬁelder Heather
Coleman rounded out the scoring.
Freshman goalkeepers Abigail
9 Pfeffer and Emily Barkereachmadetwo
« saves for the Generals, securing the
A‘ team’s third shutout of the season.

' it

t Men’s socc

  

l’ AGE /

DPORTS

    

MEG FFl1R.-\RA/ The Ring-rm Phi

,1 BLOCKING our: Junior Kevin Bibona fends off a Roanoke defender in \X/&L’s 3-1
Homecoming win over the Maroons on Saturday.

 rru Collee

er leaves early-season problems behind

W&L blows past Hampden-Sydnei/, 15th-ranked Roanoke to stay perfect in Old Dominion Athletic Conference

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Any early-season struggles that
the Washington and Lee men’s soc-
cer team experienced have vanished.

The Generals (7—1—1, 6-0 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) dis-
patched Hampden-Sydney and
Roanoke at home this week and are
sitting atop the ODAC standings.

“Those are enormous wins,” jun-
ior forward Brad Murphy said. “They
were in the top of the conference along
with us.”

Senior Andrew Grimes scored the
only goal of the game Thursday
against the Tigers off an assist from
senior Rick Schnatz at the 17:52

‘Generals win blowout matches
,against Wasps,

IARY UY/ e rig-tum 1

ONE-TOUCHDOWN WIN: Senior Drew Powers scored two goals in W&L’s 7-0
Homecoming victory over Ferrum Saturday at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds.

On Saturday, the Generals added
another shutout to the books with
a 7-0 win on the Liberty Hall fields.
Coleman and senior midfielder
Drew Powers each scored two
goals for the Generals, and
Marcoux, Hope and freshman
midfielder Ginny Helms tallied one
goal apiece.

Junior midfielder Jenny Thomas
dished out two assists for the Gener-
als. Her second came on a ﬂip throw-
in that was headed in by Powers.

Bidwell and freshman midﬁelder
Alison Irvin each added one assist

on the afternoon. Playing 45 minutes
apiece in goal, Pfeffer and Barker com-
bined for the shutout.

Two weeks away from the conference
tournament, the women have high goals.

“We have to keep this momentum
going and try for ‘another winning
streak,” Cunningham said. “If we do
well in our remaining conference
games, we’ll earn a high seed in the
tournament and have a strong shot at
a home game (in the opening rounds).”

The Generals return to action on
Wednesday when they travel to con-
ference rival Hollins for a 4 p.m. match.

: Coming to the Phi sports pages later in the term:
-Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament and
,.li postseason coverage of fall sports

, -Previews of W&L winter sports

mark. Junior Brad Hearn made six
saves in net for his second shutout
of 2001.

W&L’s offense stepped forward
Saturday against 15th-ranked
Roanoke. Murphy assisted sopho-
more Jacob Stoehr for the only goal
of the ﬁrst half, and he pushed the
Generals’ advantage to 2-0 several
minutes into the second half.

After Tsuyoshi Oshika cut the lead
to 2-1, freshman Justin Mygatt put the
game out of the Maroons’ reach with
a tally, assisted by sophomore Philip
Miller.

Junior Tim Foley recorded seven
saves in net for W&L.

“Each of our keepers have had
their moments, and it’s important to

the team that we have two guys who
get the job done,” W&L coach Rolf
Piranian said. “It’s more important
that the guy who’s out there that
day is on.”

The Generals have now won six
straight — this from a team that, in
the preseason, didn’t look like it
was headed back to the NCAA
playoffs.

“The beginning of the season, we
had problems putting the ball in the
back of the net,” Murphy said. “We’re
really starting to work well.”

With the offense improving
throughout the year, Piranian be-
lieves that W&L’s defense has
helped them shoot to the top of
the ODAC.

“We’re basically absorbing what
other teams throw at us,” he said. “The
rock of this team is our defense. That’s
the basis of our success this year.”

W&L has three conference
games left on the schedule. If they
win out, they’ll host the ODAC
Tournament semifinals and finals on
Nov. 3-4.

Murphy believes that the Generals
are en route to returning to the Divi-
sion HI playoffs now that they have
already beaten squads like the Tigers,
Maroons and Virginia Wesleyan.

“We’ve beaten the stronger teams
in our conference,” Murphy said. “So
we should be able to host the ODAC
Tournament. 1 think going in, we’ll
have a lot of confidence.”

 
    

Men’s tennis ends fall season

Match wins give Generals quarteninal ﬁnish in ITA/Rolex South Regional tournament

FROM STAFF REPORTS

SWARTHMORE, Pa.—Three
Washington and Lee men’s tennis
players advanced to the
quarterfinals and one doubles team
made it to the semifinals at the ITA/
Rolex South Region Championships
on Saturday.

After each winning a pair of
matches on Friday, seniors Rhys
James and Andrew Roberts and fresh-

man Paul McClure all won their first
match of the day Saturday, only to
lose in the event’s quarterfinals.

Mary Washington’s Conner Smith
defeated James, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. Kayvon
Fatahalian of Carnegie Mellon
dropped Roberts, 6-3, 6-2 and Wash-
ington College’s Jose Lajarraga
knocked off McClure, 6-3, 6-1 .

James and Roberts advanced to
the final four in doubles competi-
tion, but fell 8-5 to a team from

Carnegie Mellon. Lajarraga and
teammate Seth Morgan knocked off
W&L sophomores K.C. Schaeffer
and Austin Kim, 8-3, in another
quarterfinal match.

Kim and Schaeffer each lost in the
second round of singles competition
on Friday, and McClure and sopho-
more Graham Nix were eliminated in
the second round of doubles.

The tournament concludes the
Generals’ fall season.

‘ Ileln design the united way .
r * of Iloclrhritluellexintlton welt site!

‘- Questions, comments or suggestions?
  , Contact Jeremy Franklin at frank|inj@wlu.edu or X4060.
. 
‘M,
I

*1: rr rm ' =1
, ll BIBSIG IIIWB GSIEIII.

Emall IllGlI0l'|lI0llm@VlIll.BlIlI

Space donated by the Ring-tum Phi

 

Top

five reasons
to work for The Ca/yx...

Learn photography.
Be a part of the University's oldest publication.
See o|d—schoo| file photos. (See Phi} page 5-6)
Be part of a talented, hard-working team.

1. Work next door to the legendary R/'/7_q-tum P/7/I

«ll?

 

1’.tGli 

 DPORTS
Minks improving rugby progrm, still fighting for respect >-

MONDAY, OCTOBER ts, ZUUI

SIGHTS OF
W&L-VMI:
(Above) A
Minks winger
gets tackled by
several Keydets
as sophomore
Jock Wols
looks on. (Left)
Sophomore
Joseph LeNoir
runs through a
pair of VMI
players.
(Photos by
Meg Ferrara/
T/Je Ringlum
P/J2)

   

MI FFRR \M/ The Ring-tzIzz1P/xi
OPEN FIELD: Sophomore Philip Dales returns the ball in
\X/&L’s 33-26 loss to VMI on Sept. 27.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee rugby squad plays as a club
team, but don’t let that moniker fool you.

The Minks now have a coach, 1991 graduate Tom
Lovell, who is in his second season with the team. Lovell
has played rugby for well over a decade, including his
four years at W&L.

Since Lovell took over the program, senior co-captain
Chris Clark says, the program is “l0 times better than we’ve
been since I’ve been here.”

“It’s so much better, I don’t even know how to explain
it,” Clark said. “We’ve all learned a lot more with the help
of Tom Lovell.” -

Playing in the Virginia Rugby Union —- part of USA
Rugby, which coordinates the sport from youth leagues
all the way up to the national team —— means rules and
regulations that don’t seem to ﬁt a club team.

“We have requirements that we have to fulﬁll, very
similar to the NCAA,” Lovell said. “Most schools don’t
acknowledge the organizational level that’s there.”

Senior co-captain Abram Trosky, who has played the
sport in England and Australia and is the returning MVP
from the 2000 W&L squad, says that everything from Title
IX to the injury—prone nature of the sport prevents most

 

said. “Because there is no large-scale, endorsed college-
level competition, rugby has eluded the mainstream and
ﬁnds its livelihood mainly in scattered -men’s clubs.

“There is obvious competition for big, aggressive males
with football, but even in England rugby isn’t a huge spec-
tator sport, except for international test matches.”

W&L is 3-2 this season, including a 17-3 Homecoming
win over William and Mary on Saturday. The Minks have
established themselves as a ﬁrst—half team, as 67 of their
82 points have come in the first 40 minutes of play. Lovell
says his team must play a full 80 minutes, but emphasizes
that they’ve come a long way in terms of dedication to the
program.

“Our strengths are commitment, athleticism and learn-
ing,” he said. “One of the frustrating things with rugby is
that there’s so little involvement at the high school level.
But they’re really learning the game of rugby. This year
especially, the team has really jelled.”

The Minks are beginning to draw from a larger pool of
players. Sophomore Charlie Kimbrough, who leads the
team in scoring this year, originally came to W&L as a
soccer player.

But, as Trosky says, rugby remains out of the main-
stream of American sports. The lack of NCAA certifica-
tion doesn’t help, as the Minks must battle for practice
time with at least four teams that use similar practice
fields in the fall. They play their home matches at the

kickboard ﬁeld. :4

“Club chair Joe Lyles helps us coordinate all our ﬁelds,”
Lovell said. “With the situation with the lack of ﬁelds, the
school has done a pretty good job at getting us practice
time. At the same time, we’ve got to play second ﬁddle to

what’s going on (with varsity teams).” ‘V

Then there is the social aspect, much heavier a part of
rugby than other sports. Post—game festivities involve both
home and away teams and include food, drink and what is

known as “choir practice.” 9

“The guys work hard and play hard, no matter what
level of rugby you’re at,” Lovell said. “The tradition is the
two teams put everything they can on the ﬁeld, and after-
wards it’s truly a gentleman’s sport.

“The home team hosts a post—game party where the Q

two teams can get together and talk about the match. Usu-
ally there’s some songs that are sung and food that’s

eaten, and everybody walks away friends. A lot of sports §

don’t get together in that post-game camaraderie.”

Such a unique social scheme just may be what draws ‘

people to the game.

“The great thing about rugby is that no matter how .?

brutal the game is and what words or blows are exchanged,
inevitably the home team ends up feeding and ‘watering’
the visitors and we part friends until next year,” Trosky
said. “What other sport can claim that?”

schools from having varsity—certiﬁed rugby teams. ’
“Though nearly every decent—size university has a Onthe Web:
rugby club, only a handful have varsity status,” Trosky http://clubrugbywlu.edu .3
SCOREBOARD   v
, Java  The GH Q presents »
SATURDAY s FOOTBALL YARDLINE W&L SCHEDULEZ OCTOBER 9-22 -
W&L 18, Catholic 12 Tuesday, Oct. 9 Tuesday, Oct. 16 1*
Catholic 0 7 2 3 — 12 Golf Women’s Soccer
W&L 0 7 0 11 —— 18 W&L at Aubrey Apple invitational W&L at Guiltord, 4 p.m.
Second Quarter 1..

W&L — Sullivan 19 run (Wiginton kick), 14:12
CUA — Bublavi 11 pass from McGee (Stokes kick), 0:13
Third Quarter

CUA -— Team safety, 1:24

Fourth Quarter

CUA — Stokes FG 32, 13:23

W&L — Watson 1 run (Watson pass from Dean), 10:51

W&L —— Wiginton FG 31, 3:54
A — 4,722

CUA
First downs 14
Rushes-yards 24-19
Passing yards 241
Return yards 110
Comp—att-int 22-53-2
Sacked—yards lost 3-30
Punts-avg 9-39.2
Fumbles-lost 1-1
Penalties-yards 6-40
Time of possession 23:36

W&L
15
46-87
154
63
19-32-1
3-24
9-34.6
0-0
7-63
36:24

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSH|NG—CUA: Ulrich 13-30, Vollono 4-5, McGee 7-(-16). W&L:
Sullivan 31-80, Watson 7-31, Overstreet 1-2, Dean 4-(-6).

PASSlNG——CUA: McGee 22-53-2 241. W&L: Dean 19-32-1 154.

RECElV|NG—CUA: Bublavi 7-90, Evans 6-55, Truxillo 4-45,
Richard 2-45, Jankiewicz 2-5, Ulrich 1-1. W&L: Watson 10-70,
Thomas 3-46, Sullivan 3-2, Overstreet 2-29, Callaham 1-7.

MISSED FIELD GOALS—-W&L: Wiginton 47, 36.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

ODAC
Team
Randolph-Macon
Washington and Lee
Bridgewater
Emory and Henry
Hampden-Sydney
Catholic
Guillcrd

®©—*—*—*l\)|’\')E
N)l\)f\7®©-‘$1’-

October 6 Results
W&L 18, Catholic 12

Emory and Henry 34, Hampden-Sydney 20

Ferrum 18, Guilford 15, OT

Week of October 13
W&L at Hampden-Sydney
Guiltord at Bridgewater
Catholic at Froslburg State

Emory and Henry at Randolph-Macon

'Week of October 20

Bridgewater at Emory and Henry
Hampden-Sydney at Catholic
Davidson at Randolph-Macon
W&L at Sewanee

Week of October 27
Bridgewater at W&L

Emory and Henry at Catholic
Randolph-Macon at Guilford
Hampden-Sydney at Davidson

Wednesday, Oct. 10
Women’s Soccer
W&L at Hollins, 4 p.m.

Thursday, Oct. 11
Volleyball

' W&L at Roanoke, 6:30 pm.

Friday, Oct. 12

Women’s Tennis

W&L at Franklin & Marshall, 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Savannah A&D, 5 p.m.

Saturday, Oct. 13

Women‘s Tennis

W&L at Swarthmore, 9 a.m.

W&L at Havertord, 3 pm.

Cross Country

W&L at Div. III State Meet, TBA
Volleyball

W&L at Goucher Tournament
Football

W&L at Hampden-Sydney, 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

W&L vs. Guillord (at Savannah

A&D), 1 p.m.

Women’s Soccer
Carnegie-Mellon at W&L, 3:30 p.m.

Wednesday, Oct. 17

Men’s Soccer

Eastern Mennonite at W&L, 4 pm.
Field Hockey

Eastern Mennonite at W&L, 4:30 p.m.

Oct. 18-21
Women’s Tennis
W&L at Rolex National Tournament

Thursday, Oct. 18
Volleyball
W&L at Bridgewater, 6:30 p.m.

Saturday, Oct. 20

Cross Country

W&L at Gettysburg Invitational
Women’s Soccer

W&L at Roanoke, 1 pm.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at St. Mary’s, 2 p.m.
Football

W&L at Sewanee, 2:30 p.m.

Sunday, Oct. 21

Field Hockey

Christopher Newport at W&l_, 1 p.m.
Volleyball

Lynchburg at W&L, 2 p.m.

OLD DOMINION ATHLETIC CONFERENCE STANDINGS

   

Overall WoMEN’s SOCCER VOLLEYBALL
W L Conference Overall Conference Overall
4 1 Team w L T w L T Team w L w L
2 3 Washington and Lee8 1 0 8 2 0 Washington and Lee5 o 15 3
4 0 LV“°hb“'9 5 0 0 9 1 2 Roanoke 5 o 11 5
3 2 Virginia Wesleyan 6 1 0 113 0 Emmy and Henry 3 1 10 6
2 3 Eastern Mennonite 5 3 0 113 0 Rando1ph_MaCon 4 3 11 8
Roanoke 4 2 0 9 3 0
l 4 Randolph-Macon 4 4 o 4 9 o Ly.”°hb”'9 3 2 14 5
1 5 Bridgewater 3 4 1 5 4 2 B"d9e‘”"‘“” _ 3 2 1° 6
RMWC 2 3 1 6 3 1 Eastern Mennonite 2 3 8 11
Guilford 2 4 o 5 7 1 H°'”"S 2 3 5 1‘
Homns 1 5 1 2 7 1 Sweet Briar 1 3 7 6
Sweet Briar 0 6 0 2 9 0 RMWC 0 5 4 12
Emory and Henry 0 7 1 3 9 1 Guilford 0 6 2 19
MEN’s SOCCER FIELD HOCKEY
Conference Overall Conference Overall
Team W L T W L T Team W L T W L T
Washington and Lees 0 0 7 1 1 Eastern Mennonite 6 0 0 9 5 0
Roanoke 4 1 0 9 2 0 Lynchburg 5 0 0 11 1 0
Virginia Wesleyan 4 1 0 8 5 0 Roanoke 6 2 0 8 3 0 1
Emory and Henry 3 2 0 6 5 0 RMWC 4 2 0 6 5 0 ,~ ,
Lynchburg 3 3 0 5 6 0 Virginia Wesleyan 3 4 O 5 7 O — .
Hampden-Sydney 2 2 0 8 4 1 SweetBriar 2 3 0 7 5 0 I .
Eastern Mennonite 2 4 0 7 B O Randolph-Macon 2 5 0 4 9 0 _   I 1 , ,‘ V I! V
Randolph-Macon 1 3 0 6 6 O Washingtonand Lee2 6 0 2 8 0 , , ' H -  '- ’ -_ .  ' . surf" ' » ' -. ' r
 I A o 4- o  I I I I 7 0 Money  ctOber 8 8.30-midm ht
Bridgewater o 6 o 3 3 0 Hollins 6 0 1 110 " ‘    '  ' ' ' " ‘ I '’
Editor's note: Overall records may not reflect games played this weekend. _ 1'
O.

 

