 

,03’I8.7S:">‘ 

-. i :o. H.» ;,it,yr’«§,’~,i‘4\,'

 

  

   

 

the Solidarity Labor Union, an underground
labor party.

we are going to have the opportunity to
hear first-hand from this historical
leader.”

Thanks to Walesa’s efforts and the
strength of a 10-million member party, the
Communist government folded in 1990,
culminating with his election as president

Anti-communist labor leader to discuss his role in freeing Po/and from Soviet control

Contact worked for eight months to
coordinate the appearance. Several pro-

” “We hope to extend learning out ofthe fessors think that the effort was well
classroom,” said Contact President Sam worth it.

. it Langholz, a senior. . “Lech Walesa was one of the most im-

V “Instead of reading about Solidarity portant symbols of anti—communism in the

‘P and the fall of communism in a textbook, world in the eighties, along with his country-

man (Pope) John Paul II,” said History Pro-
fessor Richard Bidlack.

Some students will have close contact with
the speaker. Sociology Professor Kryzsztof
Jasiewicz will be conducting a seminar with
him in the afternoon.

J asiewicz gave participating students prefa-

 ‘kL’..%‘,’;vu  ixniﬁ ;J'{\m.‘,§«3! ‘my.
~ , turf... ..'~»’,.,jv , 
ti W»/L Du stiztlm
THE RI.‘-\_...:_[ 31 l"Hl ~- . , ‘ I , :3 \ _ __H V I - ‘ V .f_ ‘ i “ V f L I ‘ ‘I _ I. "V .,l . ".‘ J .2 y ‘.. V -4-,]  _.E.[._\, )1]
,- INg1DE Tut. sit D}:.\r \()lt..i: at \\ .\.:i»ii.x<.io;\ mi l...i«..i:..Lydxi-:io1ii_ .\l.\-(.1... 189; (i?O,\i..iZ\i_. Ar L‘  ’
ON OR OFF @ P.AG}.7.    -r ‘r ~.r L ..1. --i U T S T ml I 7  2
1" xi w'~;:  ‘ ‘ l   " ‘ i . I Y

l i)l‘l ix"_V“ K’ ' "A       (;)ppj\} EUNS 

 \‘(?’&i.ii=‘i«; 5

Aiiviosir AN Uvsi-.7‘r(I7 PAGE 6 ' '~ J, ,_ .. .. . ::

V 1%: Vi‘l1-A1,}, l":\i,i.$ To \‘U.4 T S“  in 0

‘ Bttio :4. .  L\' ('2-‘v"{'.l".'II'li\ll-1 24//, I i
nL:m.\t; l3.«\¥<‘:~l\TS7 \Ve:.L:i<i«Ni'> Sg-:0R1,,;JB( _,ARD 8

if ‘v’r,=n;3.ir. <‘_“.l”\". Ne, Xll ‘ - l.l7.I;ENG'l‘0.E\', \:'iRci:~:i.\. 24450 ii‘  ‘Cl<’;Ti.=?tiiii 29. 39973
A
S A
 Or 33 Cr t0 S 63 W “G

   

those Washington and Lee students and
faculty registered to vote in Virginia
prepare to select their next governor.

Undergraduate groups Col-
lege Republicans, Young Demo-
crats and Students for Democracy
have spent the past weeks encour-'
aging student participation in the
election. Faculty members en-
deavor to stay informed on current
campaign issues.

Students for Democracy, a non-
partisan campus organization headed
by sophomore Christopher

been active in soliciting student in-
volvement, conducting a voter regis-
tration drive last month. Approxi-
mately 50 students registered to vote
in the upcoming elections.

College Republicans is
p’le‘ase‘d with the results "of last
week’s poll.

“Clearly, Mark Earley’s mes-
sage resonates with students in the
Commonwealth,” CR First Vice
Chairman J. Hammond Heath, a
sophomore, said. “The desire for
strong conservative leadership in

election, however.

History Professor Ted DeLaney
said, “I suppose we (as) faculty mem-
bers attempt to keep ourselves informed
as responsible citizens should. And un-
like the student body, I suspect the ma-

jority ofthe faculty is Bemocratic.‘The ’ “

choice should be relatively clear.”
The two front-runners are
locked in a close race that the Wash-
ington Post dubs “a dead heat  sud-
denly up for grabs.” Despite Mark
Warner’s substantial lead earlier in
the campaign, the gap between

  

THERE COULD BE ONLY ONE. Democrat Mark Warner (left)
ﬂashes a trademark grin as he greets his supporters on the
campaign trail. Meanwhile, Republican Mark Earley (right)

Q in December. tory literature, including his article in the book
Contact was able to secure Walesa eco- “Post—Communist President.”
i’ come“ A1) nomically because he was already on an “It think it is important for students to
BY LATRINA STOKES AND IMRAN NAEMULLAH eight-week tour of colleges in the United see in person one of the most important po-
* , States. litical leaders in the 20th century,” said
. ii ASST’ NEWS EDITOR MD STAFF WRITER “For a world leader, he costs almost Jasiewcz.
Former Polish President Lech nothing,” said Jenny Parks, Contact vice MarysiaGolubiewska,asophomore, isone oimsivit
it Walesa will address Washington and president of operations. Parks mentioned, for of the few who will have a chance to eat dinner DECEPTIVE APPEARANCES. Death nearly claimed W&L sophomore Mehul Srivastava and Virginia
Lee tomorrow in Lee Chapel. His instance, that W&L did not have to pay for with Walesa. Tech student Niteesha Bahrara at 1:30 a.m., Oct. 28, 2001. Bahrara, driving his white 1999
k Sp€€Cl'l, “Democracy: Th6 NCVCF EI1d- intercontinental [lCkC[S.  I1'lCC[ll'lg has extra  Toyota Camry,’ swerved to avoid a deer crossing the road five miles from Lexington city limits_
lllg Battle,”  fOCl.lS on thé COIlllI1l.I- BCC3.llSC Of [116 duration Of (116 [OllI', cance fOI' Golubiewska, Wl'lO lS  Overcorrecting’ Bahrara hit a guard rail then fell 10 or 15 feet into an embankment, said 3
ing difficulties of establishing democ- Walesa travels with eight weeks of clothes. “He’s a symbol of our freedom. He passing trucker, The ciuckei piesuined siivasniva and Bahiais dead They escaped from the
Ar. racy in Eastern Europe. One of the cars that will meet him at started the collapse of the Communist party overturned car, which was leaking gas fumes, by crawling through 3 broken side window, This
Walesa won a Nobel Peace Prize in Roanoke Airport will carry nothing but his in Poland,” she said. is the second week that deer have caused accidents for W&L students,
1983 for leading political change through suitcases. “He’s almost like alegend.”
h 0 0 0 0 0 9
« University prepares for Virginia governor s race
__ V By MEG I-{ASTON “I can’t put too much stock in a The Republican sentiments  ’  .   A . t T ‘ - V  V
f M STAFF WRITER poll ‘conducted in that manner,” that seem to dominate the student ' ,3: _ ‘  Q
. 9 I Ruscio said. body may be less prevalent among  y  “ﬁg hit
As the Nov. 6 election looms, College Republicans has also faculty members preparing for the "vi 

    

COL iirrsr 

surrounds himself with a supportive family and the
American flag. What’s the difference in these two candidates?
See page 5 for a complete comparison.

     

 

 

5 McAleavey, recently polled W&L Virginia transcends age.” Warner and Earley continues to nar-
students. SFD conducted the poll in This reaction does not surprise row. An independent survey of 625 in Schools, has focused his campaign Earley, who has served for the past Ruscio said regardless who wins
l ‘ front of the Co—op. The students many Young Democrats. President registered voters conducted last on education. ,_ 10 years as attorney general, has con— the election, Virginia will be the ulti-
showed an overwhelming preference Ben Segal acknowledges W&L’s week shows Earley trailing Warner “Education will be my top pri— eentrated his campaign around his pro— mate loser.
for Republican candidate Mark conservative leanings, but believes by three percentage points. Warner’s ority as governor,” Warner said in gram INVEST, Investing Now in “This campaign has been ex-
Q‘ Earley. Earley captured 77 percent Of that the “majority Of Republicans advantage falls within the four per- an address earlier this year, Warner Virginia’s Economy, Schools, and tremely disappointing as far as bring-
iilﬁ V0i€» With Democrat Mark (at W&L) might P1181’! SOIIIC m0€i- Cent margin Of Crr0r- has also centered his campaign on Transportation, through which he will ing to the forefront issues that will
*1 Warner winning 23 percent. erates (towards the Democrats) in Warner, who currently chairs the a transportation referendum that address whathecalls“some of ourmost affect Virginia’s future,” he said.
P0iiiiCSPI‘0f€SS0rK€nRllSCi0W3Ir16d r63Cti0I1 (0 the right-wing rhetoric Virginia Math and SCi6nC6 C0aiiii0rl seeks to raise local taxes to better pressing problems.” He has vowed to “Whoever wins will have a difficult
that such polls are often innacurate. that sometimes prevails.” and co-chairs Virginia’s Communities transportation. veto the transportation referendum. time fufillin g any agenda.”
V . ‘
all news briefs to  V
.   an  W&L parents ﬂock to
o
‘ campus in record numbers
. , . . ,
* p,eS,de,,, and CEO of NPR ,0 speak Forty third Parents Weekend brings in over 2000 guests
1. Kevin Klose, president and chief executive officer of BY MICHAEL LEE of Stlldellts Ofllce Wale avallable [0 answer parental
National Public Radio, will speak in Lee Chapel at noon SW Wm, ‘i““‘“‘°“Sv n°W’5°“ 5a‘d- ,
on Friday’ NOV. 2. K1 OS eas address will begin a twO_day ‘ I Departments offered the usual lunches, receptions Today ‘
1' international Conference at Washington and Lee,..G10ba1 More than .2200 relatives showed this weekend, and meet—and—greets. ' 8:30 a.m.—Annual Leyburn Library Booksale.
Media, The Quest for Universal Ethical Standards.» making it Washington and Lee s largest-attended’ Par- . Acting President Laurent Boetsch, wife Half-price sale begins today and runs through Tues-
' A The title of Klosess address is “Ethics in Public ents’ Weekend, despite the fact that law students par— Elizabeth Boetsch and lVI1mi’Elrod oversaw tours day, 10 am. “ .
Broadcasting. Public Broadcastingss G10ba1R01e.o His ents weren llnV1ICd.' ' . . . of Lee House, the president s residence. Student . 4 p.m.—Lecture. Outcrop/Behind Outcrop Charac-
‘V Speech and the Conference are c0_sp0nS0red by the Jour_ Several innovations distinguished the forty—tliird guides lead visitors through the 134-year-old terization of Deepwater Petroleum Reservoir Analogs:
nalism Department and the Knight Program in J0uma1_ Weekend frornthe forty-second. building. _ Why and How, Dr. Roger M. Slatt, University of Okla-
“ ) ism Ethics, by Brigham Young University and by p The traditional Front Lawn luncheon was com— ' Students also worked as ushers and at the registra— homa. Refreshments at3:30 PM. Room AG—l4, Science
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates’ publishers of the _,0ur_ bined with the football tailgate. The lunch, which was tion desk at Fairfax Lounge. . Center.
ml] 0fMaSs Media Ethl-cs_ to cost $8.50, became a complimentary meal before “We couldn t get by without the students,” 'Iliesday, Oct. 30
the Sorority Promenade. Rice said. “They make the .parents feel wel— 10 a.m.—Annual Leyburn Library Booksale ends.
V . “This was a significant move,” Dean of Students come and add something we can’t get anywhere 7 p.m.——Contact lecture. “Democracy: The Never
'    David Howison said. else.” Ending Battle,” Lech Walesa, first democratic president
- - ' ’ ‘ ' as been — s of freshmen were articularl in atten— f Pol . .
¢ /0’ iema/9 SGXU3/3553“/i V/Ci/"73 emsrlhlléiiﬁiéZZi3?.f.?;.§l§iii§.li‘3S;l‘ P" .i....l:‘l°“‘ ‘’ ’ ivedniiialgféfilliiel
A confidential support group sponsored by University “The lunch was moved to let more parents Freshman Matt Treco’s parents bought him a tele— Halloween.
¢ Counseling Service will meet weekly forW&L women who see the new (alcohol—free) tailgating,” Rice vision and frequently took him out to eat. Thursday, Nov. 1
i have experienced sexual abuse at any time during their lives. said. “It was nice to eat at a restaurant that 7 p.m.—Speaker. Special Agent David Huff of the
y Each member will sign a conﬁdentiality agreement. Call Alcohol was ahot topic during last year’s Parents‘ serves dishes besides variations on chicken,” Virginia ABC will be speaking about Club Drugs. Northen
Carol Calkins at X8590 for further information. Weekend, but this weekend the University attempted he said. Auditorium.
‘ to focus on new subjects. The Trecos drove from Indianapolis. 8 p.m.—Theatre Series. “The Colored Museum.”
‘ Fmai call for String Cheese  11.12:‘;  ‘::;;:::::;:r::;:::;:: f:f.:I;:$:’ :‘s.:::::‘‘ by     
K The remaining tickets for The String Cheese Incident The seminar highlighted pre-orientation programs like ments for the Weekend. Friday, Nov. 2
i "T Concert Win 30 On Sane Wednesdgyr Oct‘ 31 from “‘2 in the Outing Club hike and the Habitat for Humanity Several asked for activities specifically for Noon—Media ethics conference begins, “Global Me-
non‘ Of the C°‘°P- Tickets C05‘ 20 W&L The Show is ro'ect. freshmen arents, such as cam us tours, rece tions dia: The uest for Universal Ethical Standards.” NPR
: rt Sat" NOV 3‘ This is your last Chance to get tickets because P J Senior Stacy McLoughlin, junior Anne Ritchey and and otherpopportunities to scfcialize with fhellow CEO Kev(i2n Klose, keynote speaker. Lee Chapel.
' they win no‘ he Sold at the door‘ Director of the Outing Club Nick Tatar presented at parents. 4:30 p.m.—Business ethics institute. “Passions at
V “Celebrating Student Success.” Freshman Claiborne Irby summed up his Parents’ Work,” Robert C. Solomon, University of Texas at Aus-
_      Discussion of alcohol issues was confined to the Weekend in a paraphrasing of the Jim Carrey movie tin. Room 327, Williams School.
. Alcohol Resource Room, set up in University Center “Dumb and Dumber.” 7:30 p.m.-Film Society. “Pollock” (USA, 2000),
V . TiieDekCemer(aCroSs fr0mthepO.StOﬂiCe)w1ubeSh0w- 109 by Jan Kaufman, director of the office of health, “Parents, while slow and dangerous behind the directed by Ed Harris. Troubador Cinema.
mg Mlcllael Joldallis ﬁlm game back In the NBA on a 54" ’ h 1 can still serve a u ose - a in for dinner at 8 m —Theatre Series “S innin Into Butter” d’-
television Tuesday, Oct. 30 at 7:30 PM. Snacks provided. P‘°’“°“‘?“' W e“ 3 P if ‘ P V g P’ ' . " P g ’ ‘
#. During Parents Weekend, members of the Dean the Wilson-Walker House. rected by Tom Ziegler. Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.
A

 

    

PAGE 2

CHOW TIME

WHO’s HUNGRY? Parents pack the sorority house front lawn as
they line up for lunch Saturday. Poppy—seed chicken, which won
the Dining—Hall’s recipe—from—home contest, marinated chicken
sandwiches, tortellini in pesto sauce, Cole slaw, potato salad,
fruit salad, white chocolate macadamia cookies and chocolate

MARY GUY/ Ringtzmz Pbi
chip cookies were served. Students and parents wore their Sunday
best as the TFC Band entertained the crowd with oldies,
motown, disco and funk. The forty—third Parents’ Weekend
broke with tradition and offered a complimentary Parents’
luncheon at the sorority colonnade.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001

T}a3Ra«;TuM1%n
congratulates the

Phi Eta Sigma

initiates of

Vanessa Marie Adams
Adam Patrick Allogramento
Emily Elaine Averitt
Jennifer E. Backe
Anna Turner Bagwell
Heather Elaine Bane
Jessica Celeste Bennett
Amy Elizabeth Blakeway
Aniesa C. Bosch
Jonathan David Browder
Kimberly Claire Bulka
Mateo Caballero
Lessie L. Calhoun
Ellen Claire Carothers
Cullen O’Neill Carter
Kara Beth Coen
Heather Lynn Coleman
Joshua Luke Comthwaite
Jonathan Hardwin Davis
Natalie Gwen Deibel
Kathryn Christine Drinkard
Carolyn Marie Duffy
Caleb Peter Dulis
Rahmeen Parviz Farudi
Patrick Michael Fleming
Nancy Anne Francis
Jeremy Scott Franklin
Maria Cristina Garcia
Maren Elizabeth Garval
Austin Elizabeth Gee
\V1lliam Francis Gilsenan HI
Maria Klara Golubiewska
Rory Thomas Gray
Jacqueline Lynn Green
Satomi Hagiwara
Mitchell Wayne Helander

OORRECHON

The last issue incorrectly
spelled Bryan Caskey’s name.

The W&Life article about Pat
Deacon was written by Staff
Writer Matthew A. Coursen, not
Meg Haston. '

It is the policy of the Ring—tum
Phi to accurately report the news. We
encourage our readers to report any
fact errors to phi @wlLt.edu.

 

Katie Jane Howell
Cemal Ince
Noshir J ehangir Irani
Erin Renee Johnson
Daniel Lee Kagey
Austin Injae Kim

Charles Wllliam Kimbrough

Brett Timothy Kirwan
Lisa Ellen Landis
' Lauren Lee LaRue

2001:

Matthew Lloyd Layton
Kema Levi
Min'Lim
Morgan Jess Lipsey
Erin Billen Lutkewitte
Corinne Howland Mathieu
Jennifer Meredith May
Matthew Buchan McDerrnott
Joseph Bennett McGehee
Ian Roberty Mcllroy
Stephen Chad Meredith
Colin Edward Mitchell
Rebecca Marie Mitchell
Jaime Elizabeth Muscar
Matthew Warren Nelson
Cameron Shane Nutter
Christopher Adam Overholtzer
Gregory Richard Papeika
Carson Bennett Penkava
Abigail Lauren Perdue
Michael Sheldon Press, Jr.
Eric Peyton Ritter
Laura Anne Rosario
Benjamin Nathan Rumley
Kenneth Charles Schaefer
Louis John Schaufele IV
Harry William Schroeder IH
Joanna Ashley Shubert
Virginia Creary Snider
Joshua Bennettt Somers
VassilP1amenov Stamenov
Elizabeth Maury Stegal
Jacob Srisc Stoehr
Maria Syska
Susan Ashley Thorton
Mary McIntosh Tompkins
Lydia Jameson Toso
John Forrest Travison
Emily Michelle Tyson
Daniel Douglas Vos
Kenneth Lloyd Walker, Jr.
Eric Wechtler
Michael James Wert
Jonathan Maurice Wortham
James Craig Zunka

BIG SALE

ON SUITS

AND SPRTCOATS

 

MEN
CORBIN

GITMAN

W&L TIES & BELTS (EXCLUSIVE)
WOOLRICH

K. GORDON

ENRO

TRAFALGAR BELTS

SINCE 1926

Visit us again for pleasant shopping

LADIES
BOWDON
FOXCROI"-T
RICHARD SPORT
CORBIN
WOOLRICH
LEAON LEVIN
LANZ GOWNS

and first quality merchandise.

he College Town Shop

111 West Nelson

Suits and Sportcoats 25% Off

Amex Visa Mastercard

.57-r.

5/

1.).

44"

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

THE l{?\‘I;'-’£l’:vll)lll
STAEE EDITORIAL

Visiting the ﬁnal frontier:
The Phi ’s Internet domain

http://phi.w|u.edu

The Ring-tum Phi has conquered the print
media of Washington and Lee. All other jour-
nals, anthologies and publications are now
either our allies or our vassals.

Who remembers the Science Journal,
once distributed through Parmly, Howe and
the addition? Who remembers when the Ariel
published twice a year? Who remembers a
funny Spectator? Who remembers what the
Arete is?

Truly our dominion is complete.

Now it is time for the Phi to expand to the
final frontier: cyberspace. Due to the constant
efforts of Peter Djalaliev, our lntemet editor,
the paper of record has established a toehold
in hypertext.

The Phi archives nearly all stories from this
year, beginning with the Convocation report
and continuing through this week’s lead story
on Lech Walesa’s appearance. Speciﬁc articles
may be searched through the news, opinions,
features and sports sections.

This means your paper will allow you ac-
cess to cutting-edge W&L news from any-
where on earth with an Internet feed.

This power is not limited to undergradu-
ates, law students and faculty. Parents and
alumni can also avail themselves of impec-
cable Phi coverage. Your nearest and dearest
can also check the sports standings, read the
latest campus opinions or peruse the weekly
features.

Further, you will soon be able to electroni-
cally submit General Notes, 24-7 and letters to
the editor. Perhaps this convenience will ﬁnally
pierce the iron—plated apathy of W&L’s stu-
dent body.

This is not, however, to say that the print
version of the Phi is obsolete. The magic
wrought by our Evil Queen of Picas is not eas-
ily transferred to another medium. E-layout dif-
fers considerably from its print counterpart: it
is horizontally chained to screen size and verti-
cally freed from the constraints of the 13-inch
page.

Hopefully, however, the trademark style and
verve of the Phi will transcend a change of
medium. Whether read on the monitor on in
your hands, W&L’s student newspaper will con-
tinue to inform, delight and instruct.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

WE WANT TO HAVE
10,000 OF YOUR BABIES.

— MYSTERIOUS CALLER IN PHONE MESSAGE .
TO PETER QUACKENBUSH ‘O5

Editor—in-chief Matthew B. McDer'mott
' Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLatimer
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor KatieHowell
Photo Editor MaryGuy
Photographers Meg Ferrara
J eb Brooks
Paul Seifert
William Litton
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor—in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reflect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

TEE lil;.\"?(}~’l’l..?;‘.»=l PHI

PINIONS  

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

EMAInI<IRwANB@wwEDu

Sweatshop me cents

Last Thursday, the new Wash-
ington and Lee chapter of United Stu-
dents Against Sweatshops (USAS)
met for the first time. At the meeting,
the six or seven students present dis-
cussed the nature of sweatshops, the
principles of the national organization
and the groups’ ultimate goal of hav-
ing Washington and Lee associate
with the Worker’s Rights Consortium
(WRC).

At first glance, the idea of work-
ing to eliminate sweatshops and en-
sure that W&L apparel is “sweat-free”
seems to be a good one. Alas, such
positions betray an embarrassing lack
of economic sense and a naive, or
perhaps more sinister, dislike of glo-
bal development.

Problems first arise with the na-
tional organization, USAS. As an or-
ganization, it is, to be blunt, decid-
edly communist in tone. For example,
USAS’ statement of principles begins
with “We work in solidarity with work-
ing people’s struggles.” I Such
Orwellian doublespeak is followed by
this gem impugning both the
economy and American society, “Not
only are we collectively confronting
these prejudices as inherent defects
of the global economy which creates
sweatshops, but we also recognize
the need for individuals to confront
the prejudices they have internalized
as the result of living and learning in
a ﬂawed and oppressive society.”

Moreover, the organization
professes to be
working to build
“solidarity” be-
tween students and
the workers of the
world. Perhaps the goal is to have
students become involved proletar-
ian revolution. (If at first you don’t
succeed . . .)

Another example of the
organization’s liberal roots is its state-
ment released in response to the Sep-
tember llth attacks. It included such
phrases as “We stand ﬁrmly against
sentiments of military retaliation,” and
exhorted all Americans, especially, our
leaders, to work for peace. Although I
don’t quite understand how not ﬁght-
ing a war on terrorism will forward the

RIGHT or THE AISLE
BRETT  KIRWAN ‘O4 U.S. was not declared

PHOTO COUIUESY OF WWW.RTE.IE

ARE swEAIsHo1>s 0001)? WE THINK SEW: Sweatshops provide economic opportunity for the unskilled.

goal of eliminatingsweatshops, such
blather reveals the character of the
USAS organization.

Regardless of USAS’ ideological
make—up, its goal is misguided. Sweat-
shops aren’t nearly as bad as they’re
made out to be. In fact, sweatshops,
and the opportunity they provide, are
an important step in a nation’s devel-
opment.

Sweatshops were a part of
America’s journey to prosperity.
Child labor and worker’s rights laws
came about largely only after they
were economically
feasible. Victory over
sweatshops in the
—— until 1938, by Life
magazine. For the immigrants who
ﬂooded our shores, sweatshops in
the United States provided opportu-
nity to make a life for themselves and
many came to be quite prosperous.
Today, cheap, unskilled labor is
scarce in the United States, so Ameri-
can corporations bring the opportu-
nity for advancement to the coun-
tries where it is available.

It is simply ridiculous to believe
that sweatshops can be eliminated in
counties whose populations are unedu-
cated, unskilled and looking for work.

Letter to he Edit

Most disturbing, though, is
USAS’ involvement with and sup-
port for the groups that protest the
IMF and World Bank, a larger
movement embodied by the luna-
tics who looted Seattle Starbucks
and Montreal McDonald’s. These
are the radicals that trashed Se-
attle, Montreal and Genoa and were
planning on doing the same to
Washington. To be an enemy of
globalization, as USAS and their
allies are, is to be an enemy of the
only sure way to eliminate sweat-
shops.

In fact, globalization may be the
quickest way to prevent future acts
of terror. No nation whose per capita
income exceeds $6,000 US in 1992
dollars has ever reverted to an au-
thoritarian government. If Afghani-
stan had been developed to the level
of India or Indonesia, the Taliban
wouldn’t be around to support ter-
rorism.

Sweatshops attract a lot of nega-
tive attention these days. Perhaps
those who oppose them should
more closely examine the issue and
question the ultimate motives of
national organizations they work
with before bringing such advocacy
to campus.

-——-up

THE ANSWER is ‘Y Es’:
What protesters don’t
seem to realize is that
28¢ beats zero any day
of the week, especially
in developing nations.
United Students
Against Sweatshops
and its campus allies
should rethink their
plans to pressure W&L
to join the Workers
Rights Consortium.

PHOTO COURTESY
or AL CRESP()/
www.ALcResPoPuoro. COM

Finding a place
to call your own

Washington and Lee does such a stellar job of
weaning its students off dependency.

First, it places you in a freshman dorm ﬁve feet away
from all your classes. (Counteracting this living accom-
modation is that it’s likewise ﬁve feet away from the Co-
op, and thus a dark hole of mindless procrastinating.)

Then there’s the option of fratemity/sorority hous-
ing, Gaines or
Woods Creek. Al-
though sorority
houses are basically
mansions stolen
from a classic movie, the fraternity houses deﬁnitely fos-
ter a sense of independent living, urging its inhabitants
to ﬁnd alternative ways of being productive.

Woods Creek and Gaines, too, generate a sense of
higher living, albeit toilet paper is perpetually supplied
in Gaines and you don’t have to ever change your
room’s light bulbs in either place. However, the great
challenge of living off campus presented me and my
roommates unfathomable obstacles that only leave me
with the obvious choice of writing an article comparing
W&L living selections.

Top Reasons to Live 0}?’ Campus:

- Your house has its own name. Like a dog.

You can have cats.

You can fully submerge yourself in the rich Lex-—

ington culture.

You can sit on the porch and watch cars pass.

You have a real address and not just a post ofﬁce

box the government assigns you that makes you

feel small.

Caller—ID and call waiting.

You’re cool and tough.

You get a lot of exercise walking to class, and if

you’re lucky, you shed a few pounds.

Double bed.

Your bedroom doesn’t look like a prison cell.

Immunity from on-campus rules.

Trick—or—treaters.

You don’t share a bathroom with 239,487,234 other

people.

You don’t have to worry about bringing your Uni

versity Card out. No getting locked out of your

house at four in the morning.

Top Reasons to live in Graham—Lees for Four Years:
You won’t forget your phone number because it’s
only four digits. Unless you’re dumb.

All your furniture is supplied.

The walk of shame is lot shorter, given you’re hook

ing up with someone else in your dorm.

You can wear a different outﬁt to every class since

the walk is so short.

You can just walk downstairs to do your laundry

instead of hiking to Coin Laundry.

It’s a interesting challenge to see how you can

make a 7 foot by 8 foot room unique and homey.

You can just run home if you forget a book.

You’re closer to the bottomless supply of cereal

at D—hall.

Someone cleans your bathroom for you.

Faster Internet service.

No bills or rent.

As much as I loved living so damn close to the Co-
op, I honestly would sacriﬁce that for having a room that.
affords me the opportunity to move and breath. Granted,
we’ve had our fair share of realizing that there’s no one
supplying us with toilet paper anymore.

Sometimes when I try to fall asleep at night, I try to
decide which is worse: the anxiety induced by waiting for
someone to run to Wal—Mart and buy toilet paper before
we can go to the bathroom, or the unduly entertaining
Real World drama inherent to living independently at
twenty years old.

The latter typically wins.

"l§f6IfrIERNEr TTT iii ' 
KRIS POLLINA ‘03

Dear Editor,

On the morning of September 1 1th, while working in the
downtown Manhattan area, I was tested by my conduct as an
American and a Washington and Lee gentleman. I returned
home via many detours to inspect my possessions and what
could be left of my life as I knew it. I was able to ﬁnd a post
helping rescue workers from out of state. I got home very late
that evening and turned on the television. It landed on the 700
Club. Those of you who haven’t heard of this religious mas-
turbation need not tune in. But on this night I thought perhaps
I needed it. Unfortunately, an ordained Nazi by the name of
Rev. J eny Fallwell confronted me, bantering with none other
than our own alumnus, Rev. Pat Robertson. They discussed
and horribly agreed on what had caused this horrendous trag-
edy. The fault lies with abortionists feminists, gays, lesbians,

NOW members, the ACLU, liberals, Jews, et cetera, Fallwell »

“She’s been pretty much up
front about everything.”
--Ray Waity, Jill ‘05

‘Seeing whom she is
chumming with.”
--Lauri Martin, Alicia ‘O5

and Robertson concurred. At the very moment we as a nation
of all peoples needed to come together as one they chose to
drive the stake still further deep.

The following day I returned to the volunteer lines, which
included Jews, Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Athiests, et
al. I was doling out bottles of water to the warriors in the
uenches when I came across two construction workers wear-
ing Washington and Lee Law T—shirts. Granted, shirts have
been donated by the thousands to workers. But the thought
that these could be fellow alumni lifted my spirits for just a
moment. As I started to say something to them, I caught
myself and moved on. What if they saw the Robertson tirade
from last night? By now it was in all the media. What would
they think of me? How could a community of notable academia
as Washington and Lee produce such a religious whore? I
found myself not questioning my American citizenship, not

my compassion as a volunteer, not even my forgiveness as a
Christian, but what I thought was my honor as W&L gentle-
man. That’s something I never thought would happen.

It wasn’t the terrorists I feared. The terror is right here
at home, in our own backyard, on our television sets.

I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Wash-
ington and Lee community to react. Write to Rev. Robertson
and tell him how amazed and ashamed you are to be asso-
ciated with him. Tell him how he has disgraced and de-
famed our alma mater.

Though I believe I am a good American, though I
believe I am a ﬁne Washington and Lee gentleman, I can-
not say I can continue to be a member of an alumni group
that includes the likes of Rev. Pat Robertson.

Sincerely,
Barry Godin, ‘78

eekendtaught youaboutyourcuai 

“How short the nights are.”
--Greta Schmidt, Kiersten ‘O5

“That he will actually
study on a Friday night.”
—Stan J ackson, Austin ‘05

“Meeting his teachers
adds a human element.”
--Sarah Luster, Bill ‘05

    

PAGE 4



MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001

Sober driving programs a step in right direction, not a solution

GASD and administration must take harder look at alcohol and campus life; current policies show a lack of conﬁdence in students’ level of responsibility

Lately I’ve been seeing people around campus wear-
ing silver stickers that proclaim “GASD” along with a pic-
ture of a car. When I ask about the meaning of the sticker,
the wearer explains that “GASD” stands for Generals Ad-
vocating Sober Driving. GASD is a movement at Wash-
ington and Lee aimed at promoting safety when using
alcohol and driving.

GASD aims to improve the present Live Drive and
Safe Ride programs by combining the two into a more
efﬁcient organization that operates two routes. One would
be within the city limits, and the other the surrounding
countryside. The present systems are effective enough,
but many complain about having to wait a long time for a
ride, and being uncertain about being able to catch a ride
late at night.

The benefit of the GASD’s plan is that the rides would
operate along an established route, much like a bus, with
marked stops along the way, making getting a lift home a
much simpler matter.

This system sounds great, and I wholeheartedly sup-
port the program. But I am not writing this column merely
to praise GASD and its supporters. I am writing it also,
more importantly, to ask those who drink and drive to think
twice before doing so, for the consequences of drinking
and driving are perilous.

‘Fighting terrorism at the cost of

An obvious one is the senseless loss of life. Dying in
a car accident is not a noble death. All too frequently, it is
the result of a series of mistakes, which can be more easily
made under the inﬂuence of alcohol. The
less obvious to some but in many ways
almost as important is the loss of free-
dom that our drunk driving accidents
are slowly but steadily bringing about.

It is no secret that the administration has implemented
the new alcohol policies because of our misuse of alco-
hol. The tragic accidents at Washington and Lee in the
past have no doubt weighed heavily in the minds of our
administrators as they made their decisions. Yet, we also
know that the alcohol policies are annoying and reﬂect a
lack of conﬁdence in the administration in our ability to
handle ourselves in an honorable and responsible fash-
ion. Yes, honorable, because honor is not simply a matter
of not lying, cheating, or stealing; it is a matter of trust.
And you can only trust someone if you know that they
will not deliberately try to endanger your life. Drunk driv-
ing is one very obvious way of endangering life.

I know that I do not speak alone when I say that
trying to legislate alcohol off our campus is not going to
work. It will only force its use into hiding, oftentimes into
country houses that one must drive to, sometimes sober,

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEiiErmii_‘0_5

and sometimes not. No sober driving program is infallible.
The viable and reasonable solution, that promotes our
time-honored system of self-governance and personal re-
sponsibility, is to encourage the recon-
sideration of the alcohol culture at Wash-
ington and Lee. By no means does this
mean diminishing the amount of fun we
can have; heck, it doesn’t even mean
decreasing the amounts we drink. What it means is that
we most not endanger others in our enjoyment. This means
not drinking and driving. Period.

To my friends at GASD, keep up the good work. You
are taking concrete steps to proving student responsibil-
ity that permits us to drink alcohol without the encum-
brance of unnecessary rules contradictory to our system
of self-governance. Who knows, with any luck, the ad-
ministration will let us bring back our vaunted tradition of
tailgating by the Liberty Hall Ruins, alcohol and all. Just
because we have alcohol in our culture so strongly doesn’t
mean we are irresponsible. Nor does it mean that we are

intentional killers. No, my friends, it means that we must ,

prove our honor and take matters into our own hands.
We’re going to start by not drinking and driving, ever. We
have the solutions, so let us enact them, and use them.
Here’s to a better future at Washington and Lee.

 . FT AUX
DAYS OF YORE: It will be a long time before \X/&L students
can once again expect this pre-game partying as in 1981.

iberty’: Attacks provoke infringment on American rights

The free world, in declaring its
war on terrorism, is running the seri-
ous risk of losing many of the very
liberties and freedoms that have come
under attack since Sept. 11.

If you don’t believe me, ask
Osama Awadallah, a Jordanian stu-
dent of Grossmont College in San Di-
ego, Cal., who has been deterrninedly
working towards English ﬂuency. But,
after the FBI found his phone number
in a rental car once used by Khalid al-
Midhar, one of the terrorists aboard
the plane that crashed into the Penta-
gon, his troubles had only just be-
gun.

After being held as a “material
witness” since Sept. 21, Awadallah is
only just being charged with any sort
of crime. After nearly 30 hours of in-
vestigation, prosecutors are saying he
lied about knowing Khalid al—Midhar.

Awadallah’s attorneys, family,
and friends say he merely was over-
conﬁdent about his English skills and
misunderstood the questions.

Osama’s brother, Jamal
Awadallah, told the San Diego Union-
Tribune, “Maybe his English is not
good enough. My brother doesn’t
understand what is going on. That is
the problem.”

Before questioning by the Grand

Jury, the Jordanian student denied
knowing al-Midhar, until he was con-
fronted with a school journal that
mentioned he knew a
man named Khalid.
After his testimony,
friends, family, attor-
neys, and his teach-
ers at Grossmont believe he uninten-
tionally misspoke his answers.

What is even more curious is that
the FBI itself does not believe that
Awadallah had any knowledge of the
attacks before they occurred. But,
someone with no knowledge of the
events is being charged with the sec-
ond largest case of perjury since
these investigations started.

Had the FBI not held him on with-

LEFT or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘03

out charges for this past month, these
useless charges would have never
come to light. As it is, the only crime
he is being held for is because he
merely misunderstood the
prosecution’s line of questioning. Of-
ﬁcials indicate that Awadallah has not
caused any trouble while in custody
since he was arrested at his La Mesa
apartment four weeks ago. Perhaps in
this onslaught of in-
trusive investiga-
tions, American in-
vestigators have
lost sight of who the
real criminals in this tragedy are.

Another problem that environ-
mental groups and some American leg-
islators are having to concern them-
selves with is how to voice their con-
cerns over environmental issues in the
face of a President with a 90—percent
approval rating.

Now understand me: I am not
badmouthing the President’s job in the
war with Afghanistan, but in the face

Thanksgiving’s coming up!

Game by and  Strip. Marta, Connie and lilrilerin.

SKIP THOl'l"lPSON'S

of the attacks, some very important
domestic issues have fallen by the
wayside.

Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), a
champion of environmental causes,
said last Tuesday that she was con-
cerned that some conservatives were
using the war on terrorism as an ex-
cuse to silence critics and push
through environmentally damaging
proposals.

“I want to make sure we don’t
lose our freedom and democracy here,
and part of that is being able to ques-
tion and challenge the administration
if we think they’re off base on a num-
ber of issues,” Boxer said.

Perhaps now, while our legisla-
tors are coming under attack by An-
thrax in their very offices, is the best
time to reﬂect on how to keep our fears
and paranoia from overpowering lib-
erty in the institutions that most rep-
resent our expressive freedoms.

Across the pond, the British are
also wrestling with similar problems,

as they try to balance policy and free-
dom. The issue there is more specifi-
cally concerned with issues of speech.

In London on Oct. 16, the Bri_tish
press began to report that their Home
Secretary in the House of Commons
introduced proposals calling for leg-
islation to outlaw what has been de-
scribed as “incitement to religious
hatred.”

These reports prompted a letter
to the editor in The London Times
from comedian Rowan Atkinson
(known to Americans for roles as Mr.
Bean and in movies like Four Wed-
dings and a Funeral).

The legislation would, as
Atkinson stated, “[make it] illegal to
imply ridicule of a religion or to lam-
poon religious figures.” The come-
dian went on to say, “laws governing
highly subjective or moral issues tend
to drag a very fine net, and some of
the most basic freedoms of speech
and expression can get caught up in
it.”

Atkinson stated that comedians
seeking the approval of their audi-
ences are sensitive to the mores and
trends of the time. However, under
such legislation how would such
movies like Monty Python’s Life of
Brian be viewed?

In his letter. the comedian pointed
to another example, a wonderful joke
from an old edition of the British tele-
vision show Not the Nine O’Clock
News. It involved video of worship-
pers in a mosque simultaneously
bowing to the ground with the
voiceover: “And the search goes on
for the Ayatollah Khomeini’s contact
lens.”

So I ask, what is the free world
without its freedoms from unlawful
searches and seizures, its freedom
to question our leaders on policy,
and our most basic freedom of
speech? A world without these free-
doms, is a world where the terror-
ists that have attacked us, have al-
ready won.

 

Cot.LE:r:'rio

BARBER SHOP

 

22 S. Main Street * Lexington, ‘UA

open Mnn., Tues. ‘mum. :1 Fit. El a.m. - 5 ,r:I.m.;
Sat. 6‘ am. - noon; Closed lr'l-‘lad. 8. Sun.

540-453-5954

Happy Qiirtfirfay, Mike!

ﬂlffofyoar want to wish
you tﬂe East as you enter your
twenty-second year of fife.

Happy Birthday,
Micﬁaef ﬂlyneffol

    A;1‘1*ijVa..1Si.
I...c~:xi.i1,<;t,‘t;rf3'11 I‘I_i$'ii;riiri_c I%uf'lr.i.ii1;§,s. h5~?‘fi§"§?”f  " “ "'

W&!‘_.. (friiainrisirlii: $3;..s§.t..t£‘Jv; Iﬁﬁlt‘: flfhagitrlt $i3.;ﬁ.€.'1£J: ‘l>"MIl. i3ar'r:.ael=a:s;: 31;.-z1.tj.%?ELt

_A.va.i¥a.lJie .Esclt1.s’i.w::ly at (Z‘r.'nlvtmi.:»1§  C3ot1r1t.r3_r

t= Ely elsstzsiitstl i:'i'ir"§i§=:»tla-xi rzxsiv
 RR ', .,§jl§...s,,. .

actions

1’-it  i<»$'a:l::~ori $222., l..a:..a:;

"=’£r."It.‘r. ‘~‘°.*". 2»§.<.i=$i‘3 * §»3€l-~§fii4
Ltjseiiz i?a<.’ts;.ir‘i., ‘I  ‘H-«:—:!«’._."l’lr.=¢.iz':%;.. Se 85 .. . . ..

.3-753.‘? - ‘Tali l‘=’r-cc‘: ﬁ‘??«<§I§4-$555
..‘:i'J: Eirzi. §*i,?>€§; b§u5;. l‘2«s‘£

c-:.iE-:2-rai.:r.lcmrratr':m:om

w»

)4 r

 

 

PAGE 5

W8EL1FE

1  RlN<i}-’l‘l.£M Pa:

  

KATIE HO\5Cl3lLANDMATIHE\V’MCDElLNlOIT
SLPERVISING PAGEEDHORS
EMAH; 1>H1@\xi1J£1)U

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

W&L dining supervisor Hartless is full of heart

MATTHEW A. COURSEN
STAFF WRITER

Several times each year, nearly 3000 people participate
in Renaissance festivals throughout the country. One par-
ticular festival focuses on mountain men guides of the
19"‘ century. For up to 10 days, re-enactors live as primi-
tively as their ancestors who inhabited the Shenendoah
Valley over 200 years ago.

Though she can only find time to for four-day trips, a
few times each year, Brenda Hartless and her husband
enjoy attending these festivals. For those of you who do
not know Brenda, she is the Supervisor at the GHQ and

the Brief Stop Supervisor across campus at the Law School.
Since her arrival five years ago, Brenda has taken on yet
another role in addition to her day jobs. In most recent
years, Brenda works security at off—campus and on—cam-
pus fraternity parties. Though she is known for her “tough
love tactics” in the GHQ, Brenda is a softie at heart. Says
Brenda, “I just love these kids!”

Born and raised in Rockbridge County, Brenda has two
grown children, a daughter and a stepson. In addition,
she has six cats and two beagles, Bonnie and Clyde. She
and her husband reside in Rockbridge County and rent a
house in town to law students. Before coming to W&L,
Brenda worked in management at the Holiday Inn. But

when the company sold out, Brenda was forced to choose
between moving to D.C. to remain with the company or
stay at home and find a job locally. Fortunately for W&L,
Brenda chose Lexington.

In her spare time, Brenda and her husband enjoy
participating in black powder shooting competitions.
In one recent event known as Stonewall, Brenda won
the Ladies’ Championship and her husband won the
Men’s.

Brenda uses her shooting talents when she treks into
the wilderness to hunt black bear each December. To date,
her biggest prize is a 156—p0und male black bear, which
now menacingly adorns her living room. Though hunting

and shooting are her real passions, Brenda would not
trade her job for anything.

“I would choose the kids over the bears, any day.”

Such dedication and love for her job endears Brenda to
those who frequent the GHQ. Between her Renaissance
festivals and shooting competitions, Brenda has had time
to notice all of the changes around campus, and she was
not shy about offering her opinion.

“I think it’s great that we’re moving ahead to give the
kids more variety and more opportunities.”

Affectionately known as “Mom” to some freshmen,
Hartless is certainly a dynamic person, and one we should
not let go unappreciated.

VOTE FOR MARK

0 improve transport

Infographic by Katie Howell/The Ring-lu/)1 P/11'
Information collected by Alison Trinidad/T/Je R/rzgtm P/22'

Room 221.

 

PAGE 6

T HE RlN(3~Tli;\-I PET

PORTS

JEREMYFRANKIJN
SPOKISEDHOR
EMAll:FRANl<llN]@WlU.EDl_J

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001

Generals tak4thranked Bridgewater to overtime

BY ]EREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee played neck and neck with fourth-
ranked Bridgewater for 60 minutes Saturday.

But regulation wasn’t enough to decide the game, and
Jason Lutz’s 25-yard touchdown pass to Van Williams
gave the Eagles (7-0, 4-0 Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence) a 34-28 overtime win.

“We stuck with the No. 4 team in the country,” said
junior Chris Sullivan, who rushed 27 times for 109 yards
and returned a kickoff 89 yards for a score. “Everybody
played their hearts out.

“You’ve got to be pleased with everybody’s effort,
everybody’s performance. It’s too bad it didn’t fall our
way.”

The Generals (4-4, 3-2) got a mixed performance
from Marc Watson. The senior scored on a rush and a
pass, but also fumbled twice to lead to two
Bridgewater touchdowns.

“He gave us a great effort today,” W&L coach Frank
Miriello said of Watson. “A couple of unfortunate turn-
overs hurt him of course, but he bounced back and
made some plays after those turnovers, which is a posi-
tive sign.”

W&L controlled the entire first half, forcing
Bridgewater to go three-and-out five times while driv-
ing to the Eagles’ 30-yard line on three separate occa-
sions.

Sophomore Peter Dean’s 9-yard TD pass to freshman
Allen DeBard with 1 1:59 remaining in the second quarter
gave the Generals a 7-0 halftime lead. .

“We came out the most intense we’ve ever been,” Dean
said. “We were very well prepared on offense and de-
fense. I knew we could play with these guys by watching
film. I knew it could be close.”

Both offenses exploded in the third quarter, accounting
for a total of 35 points. Davon Cruz’s l—yard run on

W&L advances with win over Guilford
Generals hand Quakers a 2-1 loss at Liberty Hall Fields,

BY DAVE CROWELL

 

ON THE BOOTLEG: Sophomore quarterback Peter Dean carries
the ball against Bridgewater on Saturday at \‘(/ilson Field.

Bridgewater’s first possession of the half knotted the game
up at 7-7, and the teams would play back and forth from there.

Sullivan’s TD retum came on the ensuing kickoff, and
W&L would force another three-and-out on defense. The
Generals then drove down to the Eagles’ 15-yard line, but
a Watson fumble was returned 82 yards for a score by
Jeremy Fox.

E W

will host remainder of ODAC Tournament this weekend

M,v\R\’ GL"\'/ T/Je Ring—l1m1 Plii
Dean threw for 128 yards and a pair oftouchdown passes in
\W&I.’s 34-28 overtime loss to the Eagles.

Neither Watson nor the Generals hung their heads, as
the fifth—year senior capped off a 6-play, 76-yard drive
with a 28-yard run for a score with less than a minute
remaining in the third.

But the high-powered Bridgewater offense stepped up
again, as Lutz hit Marcus Richardson on a 58-yard TD strike
on their first play from scrimmage — still in the third quarter.

Watson fumbled the following kickoff, and the Eagles
recovered on W&L’s 14-yard line. Three plays later, Cruz
ran in from 7 yards out to give Bridgewater their first lead
of the game at 28-21.

“The breaks just didn’t go our way,” Dean said. “We
had the fumble deep in our own territory, and we had the
fumble that was returned for a touchdown.”

After two punts apiece, the Generals put together
one final scoring drive. A 32-yard pass from Dean to
Watson with 4:58 remaining tied the game up once
again.

The Eagles threatened again late in the fourth, as
Lutz’s 38-yard pass to Richardson put Bridgewater in
W&L’s red zone. But on a fourth—and—one from the
Generals’ 6-yard line, senior Jeff Bahl blocked what
would have been a game-winning field goal by Joel
Lemasters.

W&L couldn’t carry the momentum into overtime, as
the Eagles forced them all the way back to the 36-yard line.
After senior Brad Wiginton’s 53-yard ﬁeld goal attempt
was blocked, Lutz hit Williams on the Eagles’ first play
from scrimmage.

“They turned it up (on defense),” Miriello said. “If they
can’t do that, they don’t belong in the playoffs. But we’re
playing good football. We’re just a little bit young and a
little bit inexperienced with playing in that kind of a game.
We’re just not mature enough to finish.”

Sullivan believes that the Generals will put this game
behind them before meeting Emory and Henry (4-4, 2-2)
on the road next week. W&L hasn’t beaten the Wasps
since 1982, a streak of 18 losses.

“The fact that we scared the hell out of the No. 4
team in the nation and showed everybody that we can
play is motivation enough,” Sullivan said. “Granted, it
would have been nice to have won, but this thing is
still rolling. .

“Going into Henry, we should have the same motiva-
tion that we’ve had the past four weeks.”

Volleyball finishes regular
season with Maryville invite

ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team entered the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference tourna-
ment with a much-needed, solid 3-
1 victory over Bridgewater on
Thursday afternoon. The victory
clinched the No. 1 seed and guar-
anteed homefield advantage in the
tournament.

The Generals needed all the con-
fidence and benefits they could mus-
ter on Saturday in disposing of a
feisty Guilford squad in the
quarterfinals, a team that handed
W&L its only conference loss of the
season two weeks ago.

In Thursday’s victory over
Bridgewater, the Generals quickly
jumped on the board, as sophomore
forward Bret Grote scored off an as-
sist from junior Paul Negron 21 min-
utes into the first half.

The Generals ensured the victory
with two additional goals in the sec-
ond half, as senior forward Andrew
Grimes and sophomore midfielder
Jacob Stoehr both scored to make the

V score 3-0. Sophomore Philip Miller

and freshman Brian Pirkle added as-
sists.

Despite giving up a late goal, jun-
ior goalkeeper Tim Foley made four
saves and earned the victory.

“We definitely needed a win, re-
gardless of the score,” coach Rolf
Piranian said. “We had a tough loss
the week before and the guys were a
little down. We needed a victory en-
tering the tournament.”

 

   

 

    

I

QUARTERFINAL WIN: Senior Rick Schnatz plays the ball against Liberty Hall Fields. W&L won 2-1 to advance to the semiﬁnals,

Guilford in an ODAC Tournament match Saturday at the

Before a large Parents’ Weekend
crowd on Saturday afternoon, the
Generals opened tournament play
with a 2-1 victory over Guilford and
advanced to the semifinals.

Stoehr opened up the scoring
with his team—leading ninth goal of
the season, a crossing shot that got
past Guilford keeper Ryan
Fitzgibbons, off an assist from senior
Paul Wallace.

The Generals dominated the ball,
ﬁghting the defensive clearing strat-
egy of Guilford with constant pres-
sure on goal.

COME PLAY:

LEKIIK‘ l'3='.|.‘DI\'
  COETEE

.*7a"r.r.-'.'.t  rug!

   

“We basically stuck to our strat-
egy throughout the game,” Piranian
said. “The way we play and pass
worked well against them.”

The Generals added another
goal at the 66:35 mark to take a 2-0
lead, as Grimes scored what
proved to be the game-winner off
an assist from Miller.

Despite a two goal lead, W&L
needed to fight off a furious push by
Guilford in the last six minutes, when
the Quakers’ T.J. Muse scored a goal
with 5:59 to play. Guilford had more
opportunities near the goal, but Foley

  

BNJOV CHESS 0 C}-'lElCE-IJERS - BACKGAMMUN - 8: MORE!
}3SP}l.)3S$0+Ch'PPUEJClI\‘D - FRESH ROASTED COFFE - FIl'~E'I'.E.=‘sS
9 WEST WASIITMGTON 5:'l"REET - LEXINGTON - 464-6836

 
      

where they meet Hampden—Sydney at home on Friday.

stopped any attempts he faced until
the clock ran out.

“The game got tough near the end.
They gave us a push and we freaked
out a bit,” Piranian said. “We lost our
composure late in the game. We need
our more experienced players to lead
and show some composure when the
game gets tough.”

The Generals return to action on
Friday, when they host Hampden-
Sydney in the semifinals with a
chance to advance to the finals and
win another ODAC championship on
the line.

 
  

 directed lay“

by Rebecca Gilman
«directed. by iibrrr Ziegler

Marshal B. 

FROM STAPP REPORTS

MARYVILLE, Tenn.—The Wash-
ington and Lee volleyball team con-
cluded the 2001 regular season by
winning three of four matches at the
Maryville Invitational on Friday and
Saturday.

The Generals (26-4) defeated
Sewanee and Stillman on Friday, pro-
ceeding to fall in five games to
Cumberland on Saturday before re-
bounding with a three-game win over
the toumament’s host.

Although its 12-match winning
streak was snapped, W&L will now
play host to a
tournament of
its own: the Old
Dominion Ath-
letic Conference
To u r n a m e n t .
The Generals
d e f e a t e d
Hollins on Tues-
day to cap off a
perfect 10-0 regular season in con-
ference play.

“The three I want are the three on
Nov. 2 and 3,” W&L coach Bryan
Snyder said after clinching the ODAC
title against Lynchburg on Oct. 21. “If
we get those three wins, that’s what it
all boils down to.”

Washington and Lee traveled
to Hollins on Tuesday for a 30-
16, 30-12, 30-18 win. Senior Leslie
Fischbeck had nine kills and
three blocks to lead the way.
Freshman Michelle Chastain
posted eight digs and five

FISCHBECK

    
 
  
    
     
    

 

as taker 11

THE COLORED MSEUM    

I :13I}” (Sreorge C... Wolfe-

 

Nov. 2. {.5 81'. 8 at:   A

  ‘Nov. 1, sec? at s,..m.s

blocks, and classmate Jennifer
Lux collected 22 assists and
seven digs.

The Generals opened play in the
Maryville Invitational with a 30-23,
30-18, 30-13 win over Sewanee.
Chastain posted 16 kills and six digs,
while fellow freshman Emily Wolf-
ing recorded five aces, six kills and
seven digs.

In W&L’s 30-17, 30-16, 30-19 vic-
tory against Stillman, Fischbeck
had eight kills, and classmate Sara
Heusel had six kills, six aces and
five digs.

Cumberland handed the Gener-
als their fourth loss of the year to
open Saturday’s competition. In
the 30-21, 22-30, 27-30, 30-25, 16-
18 loss, senior Lindsay Ruckert
had 24 kills, 13 digs and five
blocks, and Chastain recorded 13
kills and 28 digs. Lux finished with
49 assists.

W&L bounced back for a 30-21,
30-23, 30-15 win over Maryville.
Ruckert had 16 kills and eight digs,
and sophomore Kari Lassen totaled
10 digs._

The Generals’ quarterfinal oppo-
nent in the ODAC Tournament has
yet to be determined. Snyder
knows that any team that qualifies
for the conference tournament has
a shot at pulling off the necessary
three wins.

“That’s the thing about our
conference: the top seven are all
real strong, and then there’s a
dropoff for eight, nine, 10 and 1 1,”
Snyder said.

   
 

.NOV.  at .2. page _

  
   

 3 at 2  

 

 

  
     

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001 PAGE 7


1 Roanoke eliminates women’s soccer

' Generals forge 1-1 tie through 2 oveitlmes, but ta

BY DAVE CROWELI.
ASSISTANT Svoitrs EDITOR

II to Maroons on penalty kicks in ODAC Tournament semiﬁnals

Last year, the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team felt heartbreak
in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence tournament final, losing in triple
overtime 2-1 to Lynchburg.

This year, the third-seeded Gener-
als never got the chance to pay back
an old foe.

1* The Maroons of Roanoke ended
the Generals’ postseason run with a 1-
} 1 Victory decided by penalty kicks (4-
‘ 2), moving on to face Lynchburg in the
finals, with the ODAC title on the line.
“I’m disappointed, but was very
proud,” senior Kristen Pranke said.
1» “We played very well and held our own
against a very physical team. We
didn’t let them take us out of our game.”
The Generals assured a spot in the
semifinals with a 2-1 victory over
_ A Randolph—Macon in quarterfinal ac-
tion on Tuesday afternoon.
W&L got on the board quickly

MARY GLY/ T/J? Riiig-tum Phi

STINGING RANDOLPH-MACON: Senior Drew Powers pushes classmate Kristen Pranke (7) looks on. The Generals advanced

T when junior midﬁelder Kate Bidwell the ball upﬁelcl in W&L’s 2-1 win over Randolph—Macon on to the semifinals in Lynchburg, where Roanoke defeated them
Scored at tha 20:23 mark Off an assist Tuesday in the quarterﬁnals of the ODAC Tournament as l—l (4-2) on penalty kicks.
. '1 from freshman Maggie Hope. The tally Fortunately for the Generals, the The season did come to an end in After two scoreless OT periods,
gave Bidwell a team-high total of 10 momentum quickly shifted back to the Friday’s defeat at the hands of the game went to penalty kicks, where
g goals on the season. home team, as freshman midﬁe1derLiz Roanoke, a team that had defeated the Maroons won 4-2.
A somewhat sluggish ending to Clarke scored off an assist from W&L 3-0 only six days before. The The Generals finished the season
on the flfst half, With S0m6 passing diffi- sophomore Fontaine Marcoux a mere matchup proved to be much closer this with a record of l l-4- 1. Despite fail-
culties, gave the Yellow Jackets an 2:30 into the second half. time around, with the Generals tally- ing to reach the final, they exceeded
opportunity to score. Lisa Weitzel The assist was Marcoux’s 12th ing the first goal of the game. the expectations of many observers.
, 5‘ took an errant ball near the goal and of the year and broke the W&L Sophomore midfielder Heather “With a new coach, only three se-
put it past freshman goalkeeper record for assists in a single sea— Coleman scoredanunassisted goal at the niors and so many freshmen, a lot of
v , Abigail Pfeffer at the 33:46 mark. son. l8:04mark, theonly goal ofthe firsthalf. teams would’ve unraveled,” Pranke
* “We have a tendency to let down “We needed to play our passing The Maroons, however, answered said. “ButI’ve never seen ateam play
near the end of the half,” coach Neil game and not them control the tempo with a goal of their own less than six as consistently as this year’s team in
, ‘ Cunningham said of the late goal. and play their style of soccer,” minutes into the second half, tying the the four years l’ve been here.
“They scored that goal in the last 10 Marcoux said. “We realized that it score at l—l. Neither team Could mus— “With experience, they’ll get a lot
' ‘ minutes and quickly they gained the could’ve been our last 45 minutes of ter enough offense to take the lead or better and take out teams like
momentum heading into halftime.” the season.” win the game for the next 70 minutes. Roanoke.”

1 1' SCOREBOARD

' 9

. _‘ ,

_ * SATURDAY s FOOTBALL YARDLINE W&L SCHEDULE: OCT. 30-Nov. 12 ODAC MEN’s SOCCER

Bridgewater 34, W&L 28 Friday, Nov. 2 Football TOURNAMENT
.¢ Bridgewater 0 0 21 7 6 — 34 V H b H
W&L o 7 14 7 o — 28 OEAeC11T:umamem at W&L W&L a1E"1°11 am 1181111‘ 1 pm‘ Saturday, Oct. 27
Second Quarter , Quarterfinals
‘ W&L — DeBard 9 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 11:59 Men S socfer Wednesday: N0V- 7 N0 1 W&L 2- N°~ 8 G“1"°’d 1
Third Quane, ’ ' ODAC Semifinals - women.s swimmlrng Ne.|:lt*HE:li)iP‘l9%'5"Ydn°Y 3: N°- 5  “
BC — Cruz 1 run (Lemasters kick), 9:12 Hampden-Sydney at W&L . V111’ “'9 _
. W&L — Sullivan 89 kickoff return (Wiginton kick), 8:54 Virginia Wesleyan vs. Roanoke Sweet arm at W&L’ 7 pm No‘ 2 R1.1a1.1°.ke 4’ No’ 7 Eager” Mennonne 0
1 . , No. 3 Virginia Wesleyan 2, No. 6
-* BC — Fox 82 tumble return (Lemasters kick), 3.07 (at W&L) Em and Hen 1
' W&L — Watson 28 run (Wiginton kick), 0:31 Saturday. .Nov- 10 11 11
i BC —— Richardson 58 pass from Lutz (Lemasters kick), 0:11 Wrestling F -
3‘ d ’N _3 riday,Nov.2
F°“_"" °"a"°' Vznuer :1” W W&L at VMl Keydet invitational, Semifinals (at Washington and Lee)
BC — Cruz 6 run (Lemasters kick), 14:02 V 10 a m No 1 wg,1_ Vs_ No 4 Hampdensydney
W&L — Watson 31 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 4:58 ODAC T0Uin3in9nl 31 W&L ' ' _ _ No. 2 Roanoke vs. No. 3 Virginia Wesleyan
Overtime Men’s Soccer W°men'5 sW”n""n9
BC — Williams 25 pass from Lutz ODAC Finais at W&L W&L at Randolph-Macon, 11 am. 3_alU|'daV. N0V- 
M V’ A — 6,855 Cﬂvﬂstagd wome:l1Ys swimming gootbabn ‘W&L 1 :|el1r:ilfiSnE(1‘3l\/VlIil|l:1:l|:ls|n9l0n and Lee)
BC W&L a ewanee, am. reens oro a , p.m.
. First downs 15 21
p gushes-yards 45-225 51-209  FOOTBALL GLANCE  CROSS COUNTRY
niffilgylflis 132 123 CHAMP'°N3H'P3
_ Conference Overall
3  '05, 21:2“) ;_3é27’° Team w L PF PA w L PF PA :iienL’:ni::::1:Js
Punmvg 832.9 7_39_7 Bridgewater 4 o 159 98 7 o 286 145 2. Roanoke
V Fumbiesnost 1 1.0 3.2 Washington and Lee 3 2 136 92 4 4 177 192 3_ Washington and Lee
Penalties-yards 7-70 5-35 Emory and Henry 2 2 93 90 4 4 170 155 4_ Bridgewater
g Time of possession 41:17 33:35 Randolph-Macon 2 2 e7 96 4 4 160 198 5_ Eastern Mennonire
eke H d -S d 2 3 160 153 3 5 213 226 6. Virginia Wesleyan
’ RUSHlNG~BC: Cruz 30-187, Kelley 2-14, Johnson 2-12, Lutz 9-6, .
Pearson 1-5, Richardson 1-1. W&L: Sullivan 27-109, Watson 18-85, G“"1°"1 1 3 55 142 2 6 112 229 womenvs nesnns
Dean 516' October 27 Results Week of November 3 1~ Easleln Mennonite
, PASS|NG—BC: Lutz 9-21-0 153. W&L: Dean 13-27-0 128. . 2, Lynchburg
I1‘ RECElV|NG—BC: Richardson 4-107, Lehto 3-18, Williams 1-25, B1'dge1’a1e134' W&L 28’ 01 W&L an Emmy and 1191111 3, Roanoke
Cruz 1-3. W&L: Watson 4-46, Thomas 4-33, Sullivan 2-20, Callaham Ca1“°"° 34' E'“°'V and “en” 21 F1*‘11‘1°"111'Ma°°” ya‘ B"‘19e‘”a1e' 4. Washington and Lee
1.13‘ DeBard 1.9_ Rankin 1.7_ Guilford 28, Randolph—Macon 7 Guilford at Catholic 5‘ Bndgewate, _ _
MISSED FIELD GOALS—BC: Lemasters 22. W&L: Wiginton 41, 53. Davidson 37, Hampden-Sydney 19 Maryville at Hampden-Sydney 6. Virginia Wesleyan       P
Contact Jeremy Franklin at x4060 or frank|inJ@wlu.edu.
* FRATERNITIES *
* SORORITIES *
* CLUBS *
* STUDENT GROUPS *
1*
#1 . .
- Earn $l0O0—$2000 this se-
1‘ mester with the easy
4 Campusfundra1ser.com
A’ three hour fundraising
event. Does not involve
1 « credit card applications.
-v- Fundraising dates are filling
, quickly, so call today! Con-
tact Campusfundraiser.com
' V at (888) 923-3238, or visit
4* www. campusfundraiser.com
1*

 

    

PAGE 8

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001



Swimmers prepare to build on srong 2000-01 seasons

Pulsifer, men’s team will attempt
to continue success in ODAC after 8-2 record last year

BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRITER

“With a diverse and talented group
of athletes, Washington and Lee’s
men’s swimming team stands poised
for a successful season. In his ﬁfth
year as head coach of the squad, An-
drew Pulsifer has smart, simple goals
for the season. .

“My expectations for this season
are that the guys are always having
fun and always looking for personal
improvement,” Pulsifer said. “Every-
one (on the team) should seek to ex-
cel and place their name on the all time
top 10 list for their event.”

Last year, the Generals finished 8-
2 and sent two swimmers to the
NCAA Division III Swimming Charn—
pionships.

“Everyone should have a good
year in terms of the regular meets,
and we should have a few more in-
dividuals make nationals,” Pulsifer
said.

Junior Patrick Frankfort is
among those to look for this sea-
son. Frankfort qualified for nation-
als in his freshman year. Sopho-
more Eric Ritter, who qualified for
the NCAA Championships last
year after winning the 100 back-
stroke at the Grove City Invita-

tional in a school-record time of
52.14, is also expected to be a ma-
jor contributor.

Juniors Zach Fake and Brett
Burns will play a key role in their
respective relays.

On a young team with only one
senior, the upperclassmen’s lead-
ership holds the team spirit to-
gether.

“Our captains, (senior) Rick Black
and Zach Fake, do an exemplary job
of leading the team each day, doing
everything that leaders need to do,”
Pulsifer said.

With such leadership, the new
members to the squad are learning
quickly what it takes to perform at the
college level.

“Although a bit novice, the fresh-
men on the squad show promise,”
Pulsifer added. “Phil Walotsky should
perform quite well in dual meets, and I
would not be surprised if Chris Colby,
with his talent, qualiﬁes for nationals
in his first year.”

On Saturday afternoon at the
Twombly Pool, the men were victorious
by a 130-60 count over Transylvania.

Frankfort had an impressive show-
ing, posting a meet-record time of
5:04.26 in the 500 freestyle. This
achievement had special significance
for Frankfort, since the record he broke

 
    

PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY G g-

UP FOR AIR: Top, Senior Rick Black helped the Generals win Saturday. Bottom,
Senior Katie Kennedy and the women’s team hope to improve from last season.

was one he had set his freshman year.

Additionally, he won the 200
freestyle in a time of 1:53.59. In his
Washington and Lee debut, Colby
also posted two victories for the men’s
squad, as he captured the 200 IM in
2:13.32 and the 200 butterﬂy with a
time of 2:07.82.

“Today’s meet was a good start-
ing spot for us,” Pulsifer said. “We
had solid swims from the entire team
and a few individuals broke meet and
personal records.”

The Generals return to action
next Saturday on the road at
Sewanee.

Women mix returning swimmers with incoming talent

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

This season promises to be an ex-
citing one for the women’s swimming
team. The girls are coming off of an
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championship last year, and only
graduated one senior.

With that strong of a returning
team, it would seem that the only chal-
lenge would be to keep the ball roll-
ing with a good group of freshmen —
and luckily, coach Kiki Jacobs Moore
is proud to note that she has a solid
freshman class.

“I’m looking forward to a good
season,” she said. “Our big goal will
also be winning the ODAC champi-
onship again.”

Moore was happy to point out a
few of the standouts to keep an eye
on this year. Senior Katie Kennedy,
the current school record holder in the
breaststroke and a strong distance
swimmer is back, as is junior Blair
Huffman, the ODAC Swimmer of the
Year last season.

Junior Kelly Austin won two
ODAC championship races last year,
and is anticipating more. Junior
Michelle Moore, a strong backstroke
and freestyle swimmer, and junior
Katie Kolle, an excellent utility and
relay swimmer, are both looking to
make an impact this season.

Cross country competes in ODAC championships

BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRITER

NORFOLK—Saturday afternoon,
the Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams com-
peted in the ODAC Championships,
held at Virginia Wesleyan. The men
placed third of seven teams, while
the women placed fourth of six
teams.

For the men, junior Will Teichman
led the way with a 12th-place finish
out of 63 runners. Teichman ran the

course in a season—best time of
27:12.

In his ﬁnal run at the ODAC Cham-
pionships, senior Ken J ackman placed
20th overall in a
season—best time
of 27:49.

“I could not
be more proud of
these guys,”
coach John
Tucker said.
“With all the in-
juries we’ve had
this year to our
No. 1 runner Andy Schorr and (fresh-
man) Wes Bell, the other guys on the
squad refused to quit.”

ADAMS

 

Every member of the team save
one ran a lifetime best at the cham-
pionships. The runner who did not,
however, achieved his season—best
time.

“Our goal for regionals now be-
comes to run as well or better,”
Tucker said. “The guys this year
have shown tremendous promise for
the future, and next year with the
same drive and return from injuries,
we should expect to finish in-the top
two in the conference.”

Despite injuries to numerous team-
mates, including No. 2 runner
Gretchen Tencza, the women’s cross-

country team also turned in a strong
performance.

Junior Burke Duncan paced the
women’s squad by finishing second
out of 57 runners with a time of
19:12. Duncan’s impressive run put
her just nine seconds behind the
champion, Andrea Good of Eastern
Mennonite.

Also putting in a strong perfor-
mance for the women was sophomore
Vanessa Adams, who placed 24th
overall, crossing the tape in 21 :28.

“I was personally satisfied with my
run, but I had hoped to earn more
points for the team,” Adams said.

The performance of Lynchbmg over-
shadowed the other women’s teams,
with the Hornets, a team W&L hasn’t
seen since the beginning of the year,
running much stronger than expected.

Washington and Lee returns to ac-
tion in the NCAA South/Southeast Re-
gional at Mississippi College on Nov.
10. Action is set to begin at 11 a.m.

“We’ll be together for four days, so
I hope we come together as a team, run
some good individual times and use it
as a bonding experience,” Adams said.

Assistant Sports Editor Dave
Crowell contributed to this report.

T/no Rz'r1g—z‘zmz P/92' congratulates
those members who,
besides shouldering the publication
of Washington and Lee’s paper
of record, maintain impeccable
academic standing. Recently
initiated members of CDHZ include

Jeremy Scott Franklin

Sports Editor

Katie Jane Howell

Layout Editor

Brett Timothy Kirwan
Opinions Editor

Matthew Buchan McDermott

Editor in Chief

Ian Robert Mcllroy

Sports Writer

Jonathan Maurice Wortham

Staff Writer

COCOOCOCOCOCOOCOCO000000000000OOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00000
.

Moore noted that she has a large
freshman class — seven swimmers ——
but she has three who are already
outstanding. Laura Westerman, a
freestyle swimmer; Eleanor Williams,
a backstroke, butterﬂy and freestyle
swimmer; and Tasia Fisher, a
breaststroker, all combine to form a
strong backbone to an exceptional
freshman class.

Moore predicts a strong season,
as the women hope to improve on a
.500 campaign in 2000-01.

“We’d like a better record than last
year, when we went 7-7,” Moore said.
“I know some of the girls are looking
at setting school records.

“We had a few close losses last
season that we’d like to follow up with
some wins.” -

In spite of several close setbacks
and a handful of larger ones to Divi-
sion I schools, the Generals are ready
to take on the world. They proved it
Saturday morning when they de-
feated Transylvania 114-89 at
Twombly Pool.

Led by senior Katie Kennedy, who
won the 1,000 free, 500 free, and 200
breast; and junior Kelli Austin, who
won the 100 and 200 free, the ladies
swam to an easy victory over the Pio-
neers.

The Generals return to action next
Saturday when they travel to
Sewanee.

I — — — I — — — - — I
Lexing’ron— I
Rockbridge :
County United I
Way seeks :
webmaster for I
new webpage. :
Minimal |
experience :
required. .

I Contact I
I mcdermottm@wlu.edu I
I for details I

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 

