  
   
 
 

5
#-

‘t

it
. 

§
' #
4»

 

@737
DD 

 

     

   

V’  _WRW  W” iAME$C G. i..E‘r‘8s_lR..' l_.z‘g,:;.,,,.‘.t:..r.<  n P
"   ' W ‘>‘Hil\i‘«£3’fD:‘~I ti l‘.&"‘ ‘ z,jt’ti|!ﬂ4.;/-T"' ‘rm   ’”
W9 , H NSIDE ._m,W,   . . IRDEX
RHODES RI<_;HT<I> PAGE 3  I ;_w3 3
C()l.t‘».\l.5'/".l' .-Kl‘-'{.»lvli-‘I,=’.\.‘l:}T;’*.;\‘-, .. V
SA\’.\‘ l<II2\\'3'-.N, \\Z'HU F.v\\/«Ins 2 (")P{NI()NS 
I-IRIx<'.I.\(; I.\.II>I-:ItIAI.I.~';.\l Is.-'».r.I\. \li;i’&l..i.f*‘l‘£ 
TEAM I'sAr:I< ow TOP <1) I’Ar;E 8 S R RTQ 7
'\.'’'oI.:.Ia\'I‘IAI.z.r.:.zM:HI«:s'r'uz> ‘ _  V 
:':l~:i~‘l') I'oR Ol"_)A(,".' ‘cs Ir:-I 3-1 24/" I" M
\x";l\: U'\.";«'l\’. i'-'r;-..«'I—:I5I:I<<_‘;. SQ ,RU.3(‘)ARvQ 
,;,,x, V 2445.0 Z\ir.=xI>A‘I', (.lt”l‘(‘:l%f.;"l  20411

\}I”1l.i.'.‘.ii?. (LN  Xi.

New ca

tﬂ

   

Quartet crash in country

BY KATIE HOWELL
LAYOUT EDITOR

An SUV carrying four W&L students
ﬂipped three and ahalftimes, ejecting two of the
students, in a single-vehicle accident last Tues-
day at 7:00 p.m. The wreck, involving alcohol,
sent the students to Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Virginia State Police Sergeant P.L.
Cheek said junior Brian Caskey was driving
senior Abby Montgomery’s 1998 M—class
Mercedes north on Route 669 near Lexing-
ton when he slid on gravel, overcorrected
the skid and ﬂipped over a guard rail. Pas-
sengers included seniors Montgomery and
Geoff White and junior Matt Kimbrough.
The accident’s impact threw both White and
Kimbrough from the backseat of the car.

According to the Virginia State Police
report of Trooper C.H. Seelke, who re-
sponded to the accident, neither White nor
Kimbrough were wearing seatbelts. Virginia
law, however, does not require adults riding
in the backseat of a vehicle to wear seatbelts.

An ambulance took Kimbrough from
Stonewall Jackson to the University of Vir-

W&L tunes in to new cable channels

Comedy ‘Central, Cartoon Network added to University package for dorms, fraternities

Other new channelsinclude the Food Network, Oxy-

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

ita

$.33?‘

GRAPHIC COURTFSY For THE RlSll\G GEM-‘ll.»\’1'lO!\ CAMPAIGN FOIDER

TENTING RED SQUARE. This
large structure (left) held an
audience while Trustee Phil
Norwood, chair of the
capital projects committee,
discussed proposed
additions

_and renovations to the
campus. Proposed additions
(above)

include a new University
Commons (1),a renovated
Reid Hall (3),

a renovated Co-op (4), and
an expanded \X/illiams
School (5).

Fe a/Ri-Phi

campai aims

 

for near

Br MATTHEW McDERMoTr
EDITOR—lN-CHIEF

To explain its need for $225 million, Washington and Lee
University invited over 400 guests to a two-day kickoff of its
“For the Rising Generation” capital campaign.

Guests were “W&L’s most generous donors, closest friends

and promising donors,” said Jim Farrar, secretary to the Board

of Trustees.

The kick—off was scheduled to follow the regular fall meet-
ing of the Board, which was moved to Wednesday from Thurs-
day to allow more time. p

The event began with dinner and a “Performance for the
Rising Generation,” with pieces from the Univesity Chorus
and the wind, string and jazz ensembles. The event, held in the
Lenfest Center, ended with a joint rendering of “America the
Beautiful.”

Friday presented the bulk of the information, with an ad-
dress by Trustee Phil Norwood, chair of the capital projects
committee.

Attendees could also listen to two of 10 seminars pre-
sented by seven deans, 26 professors and staff and students.

Presentation subjects included technology in the class-
rooms, ﬁnancial aid and study abroad opportunities.

“These seminars are a very detailed look at different as-
pects of university 1ife,” Farrar said.

The main event was Saturday’s gala, which took place in
the Warner Center. Black carpeting covered the ﬂoor, the ceil-
ing was draped and ﬂoral centerpieces—including a $600, six-
foot arrangement by the coatcheck—were arrayed.

Guests were treated to a five-course meal that included
canapes, black angus tenderloin and a chocolate cake with
blackberry and mango coulis. The food, exclusive of the
open bar, had a $112.50 price per person, according to the
catering event sheet.

“I understand that you have to spend money to get
money,” said History Professor Ted DeLaney, who attended
the event. “I just wish that wasn’t the case. I wish that some
of the money that went into the gala could have gone into
student scholarships.”

During the supper, two videos were shown. The first, a
tribute to past President John Elrod, recorded his reasons for
the construction of the new University Commons.

After the screening, Frank Surface, rector of the Board of
Trustees, armounced that the Board voted unanimously to name

quarter- billion

Qpital campaign breakdown

Academic Program . . . $119,650,000
Annual Fund . . . . . . . . .$ 20,000,000
Physical Plant. . . . . . . .$ 85,350,000

TOTAL. . . . . . . . . .$225,000,000

the Commons for Elrod. He then presented a framed drawing
of the building to Mimi Elrod, the president’s widow.

Elrod spoke of her husband’s hope that the Commons
would serve as “our family room,” a place for the University
community to engage in out—of—classroom discussions.

“I am delighted that the Commons will be named after
John Elrod.” DeLaney said. “Dr. (Mimi) Elrod was very
eloquent.” ’

The second video reemphasized the University’s need for
funds, featuring interviews with students, faculty and deans. A
CD-Rom with similar information was distributed to attendees.

Both videos were produced in—house.

To date, $168 million of the plarmed $225 million has been
raised from quiet solicitation of corporations and major donors.

The money is pegged for specific goals. Slightly more than
half, $119,650,000, will go to the academic program. Of the
remainder, $20 million will be used in the annual fund pro-
gram, and $85,350,000 for the Physical Plant.

The annual program contributes $4 million to the
University’s yearly operating budget.

The Physical Plant hopes to use funds toward the con-
struction of the $30 million University Commons and a $24
million new art and music building, to be named after past
President John Wilson.

Also planned is the $5.7 million rennovation of Reid Hall,
the $4 million refurbishing of the ﬁtness center and the $3.5
million expansion of the Williams School expansion. Addi-
tional funds will renovate the law school’s Lewis Hall, adding
a new entrance and atrium.

Administrators believe that the kick—off will generate suf-
ficient interest in the institution’s financial well-being.

“You don’t just do this (type of event) on a whim,” Farrar
said. “That’s what this is about, to get people excited.”

DUI sun/ivor warns campus

  

ginia Medical Center. A hospital administra-
tor at UVA Medical Center said Kimbrough
remains hospitalized in Charlottesville in
good condition. He would not comment on
any treatment Kimbrough received. W&L
Dean of Students David Howison, however,
said Kimbrough’s spleen had been removed.
Howison visited Kimbrough at UVA.

“Matt was probably the worst hurt of
all of us,” White said.

White had surgery on his leg, which was
broken in three places. Montgomery has dif-
ﬁculty walking from injuries she received
during the accident. Caskey suffered minor
cuts and bruises.

According to the police report, the state
charged twenty—year—old Caskey for driving
after illegally consuming alcohol and reckless
driving. This crime is punishable by either a
six—month license suspension or parﬁcipation
in the Alcohol Safety Action Program (ASAP)
with a restricted license and up to a $500 fine.

“Caskey was not necessarily drunk, but
he is under 21 which means, if he had any
measurable amount of alcohol in his system,
he can receive this charge,” Cheek said. “His

gen and Hallmark.

Recent changes affect only cable subscribers, so a

(blood alcohol content) was .02 or more,
which would be enough to be measurable.”
Cheek would not disclose Caskey’s exact
blood alcohol level.

Howison said this accident is the fourth
reported case of students driving under the
inﬂuence of alcohol this year. Under the
University’s new alcohol guidelines imple-
mented at the beginning of this school year,
Director of University Security Mike Young
will conduct an investigation of the accident
and interview both Seelke and Caskey. He
will then report to the Student Judicial Coun-
cil, who will hear the case after state courts
try the case. The SJC will determine the
University’s punishment.

Since the alcohol guidelines do not set
standards for punishment, the SJ C does not
know how it will punish Caskey. Howison
said possible ramiﬁcations could result in
suspension from the University.

“None of us are blaming anyone
else,” White said. “This could have hap-
pened to anyone else. The only thing I’m
concerned with is that we’re all in this
together.”

BY VIRGINIA VESELINOVA
STAFF WRITER

Guest speaker Blake McMeans encour-
aged students to avoid alcohol abuse during
his speech in Lee Chapel Thursday night.

McMeans’ speech was sponsored by
Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, the varsity
volleyball team and Generals Advocating
Safe Driving.

SAE and the volleyball team sponsored in
memory of Adam Burchett and Kristin Shelton,
who died in a single-vehicle car crash home-
coming weekend last year. Burchett, the driver,
was drunk driving.

GASD co- sponsored the event as a means
of promoting its goals. GASD Budget Direc-
tor Baxter Lee, a senior, gave a short speech
ecnouraging the audience to use alcohol re-
sponsibly.

Lee also outlined the tentative plans for
GASD’s sober-driving route, which he said
will begin operating next semester. The route
will include two zones. Zone 1 will include
all on-campus housing and all other housing
within a two—rnile radius from campus. Zone

2 will include all other locations, and use stu-
dent—driven cars.

McMeans, a promising young tennis
player, started abusing alcohol to deal with the
death of his father.

After a severe car accident his senior year
in high school, he spent three months in a coma
and another year to learn to speak and eat
again. He can now walk on his own for lim-
ited time periods.

McMeans encouraged students to avoid
his mistakes by using alcohol responsibly. He
warned students that abusing alcohol can lead
to sharing his fate.

“My biggest challenge is waking up and
realizing I have to get into the wheelchair,”
McMeans said.

Despite his disability and bad fortune,
McMeans said he tries to focus on the positive.

“I love looking on the bright side,” he said.

LIFE coordinator Jan Kauffman said she
hopes McMeans’experiences affect students.

“I think he showed that any amount of
alcohol, regardless of whether it’s one beer
or 12, can make it unsafe to drive,”
Kauffman said.

RAISE THE ROOF

 

Fans of the so—called “boob tube” at Washington and Lee re-
cently got a treat. The cable TV lineup was expanded by 18 chan-
nels, announced Flash Floyd, manager of University Services.

Adelphia Media, one of the nation’s largest cable
companies, expanded its lineup in an effort to improve
the quality of its programming, said a customer service
representative.

The student body has reacted enthustiastically.

“The expanded cable is great,” said freshman Bran-
don Hieskill. “The new channels have really good recep-
tion, and I’m glad we now have the Warner Brothers Chan-
nel and Comedy Central.”

Hieskill notes, however, that the picture quality of some
of the existing channels is still not up to par. ‘

Junior Susan Slopek agrees, but she believes that the problem
will be addressed soon. Right now the new lineup has her attention.

“I was really excited when I saw we had Cartoon Net-
work, VHI and Comedy Central. I’ve been looking foward to
these since freshman year,” Slopek said.

In his announcement, Floyd did state that he was work-
ing to improve the situation. -\

University Services said that Washington and Lee was
not directly involved in obtaining more service, because
W&L’s contract with Adelphia stipulates that W&L receives
all service changes they make.

number of satellite customers did not see any changes
early last Monday morning when the stations were added.

While many students are thrilled with the new choices
and the chance to watch “Dragonball Z” and “The Essence of
Emeril,” others want more.

“It’s too little, too late,” said sophomore Colin Harding,
who plans to purchase cable eventually.

‘The only reason I’d get this deal is because it’s the only
deal,” Harding said. “Other than DirecTV, there’s no other choice.”

Many students who opt not to go with Adelphia or cannot
receive conventional cable services, go with satellite provid-
ers like DirecTV, which can carry even more stations, such as
the much-desired HBO.

“We need something that has more movies,” said sopho-
more Otto von Feigenblatt.

He would also like to see more international channels.

“They are free by satellite. There are American charmels
in Spanish for example, like Univision which is centered in
California and Miami,” von Feigenblatt said.

F1oyd’s announcement also stated that University Services
is working on getting the foreign language channels, includ-
ing SCOLA, on the lineup. Another notice will armounce if
these additions will be deﬁnite.

Von Feigenblatt’s final wish may never become a reality.

“Basically, more movies, less commercials.”

CHOIRBOYS AND CHOIR GIRLS. Washington and Lee’s choral groups took advantage of the acoustics in the
Great Hall for their Sixth Annual Science Center Serenade last Tuesday. Faculty, students, staff and

community members attended the event.

MEG FERRARA/ Te Ring-tuw P/12'

PAGE 2

§
.75
\
g .
°’§
3
§

Mrr,

WHERE’s THE FIRE? Safety Officer Paul Burns teaches Keith lrvine how to properly use a ﬁre extinguisher during Fire Prevention Week. The chemical cloud could be seen daily.

 

7 p.m.—Study Abroad. Informational meeting for
Spring Term. University Center, Fairfax Lounge.
'l11esday, Oct. 23

Noon-6 p.m.—Blood drive. Chi Psi fraternity. Doremus.

5 p.m.—- Health Professions Seminar. “Medical school
admissions,” Beth Bailey, director of admissions and Dr.
Benjamin Sturgill, associate dean of admissions, UVA
School of Medicine. Room 307, Parmly Hall.

6:30 p.m.—Teacher certiﬁcation information. Nan
Partlett, W& L director of teacher education. Guest, Dr.
Patty Westhafer, professor of education, Mary Baldwin.
Room 114, University Center. Refreshments served.
Wednesday, Oct 24

Noon-6 p.m.~—Blood drive. Lexington Baptist
Church, Houston Street Ext.

7 p.m.—Politics filmfest. “Somewhere in Time”
(1980). Directed by Jeannot Szwarc. Room 221, Com-
merce School.

7 p.m. Class of ’62 lecture. “Pocketbook or R0-
sary? Economy, Religiosity, and Voting Behavior in
Poland,” ‘Krzysztof - Jasiewicz, professor of
pscycholgy, W&L, Class of ’62Fellow. Reception to
follow. N othen Auditorium.

Friday, Oct 26
Parents Weekend

8:30 a.m.— Annual Leyburn Library Booksale. Ends

Tuesday, Oct. 30.

  ,ﬁHEIftI:.‘gmﬁ it its Entnnsirtg

I... if X i 32' {S if:§:'.l‘t

16 west     -1  
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA tense
(703)   

’*‘e'§E*."_}§§-fl;-‘t

3:30 p.m.— Phi Eta Sigma initiation. Lee Chapel.
4 p.m.— Math student presentations: Noelle
Evans ’02 and Tina Harbins ’03. Refreshments at 3:30
p.m. Room 6, Robinson Hall.
8 p.m— Parents Weekend Choral Concert Lee Chapel.
Saturday, Oct 27
10 a.m.— Parents’ Weekend Applied Music Re-
cital. duPoint Auditorium.
1 1 :30 a.m.—Report to Parents. Larry Boetsch, act-
ing president. Lee Chapel.
Noon—l :20 p.m.—Tailgate Luncheon. Sorority
Front Lawn.
6 p.m.—Concert: Jubilee, Southern Comfort, and
General Admission. Lee Chapel.
8 p.m.—Parents’ Weekend Concert. University
Wind and Jazz Ensembles. Lenfest.
Sunday, Oct 28
Daylight Savings Time ends. Set clocks back
one hour. 3

l\/lonmr. OCTOBER 22, 2001

‘ E-mail news briefs to
A’ du

 

Presidential search website launched

The university has produced a web site to aid in the
search for the university’s 23rd president. The site includes a
timetable and outline of the search process. Members of the
campus community can make suggestions on the profile ques—,
tionnaire until Nov. 1. or make nominations. The site can be‘
accessed through the news link on the W&L homepage or
directly at www.wlu.edu/presidentialsearch.

Cy Twombly on view

Work by Cy Twombly, a benefactor to the university, is;
on display at the Lexington Art Gallery on Nelson Street. The
show features dry pigmented reproductions of signed prints.
Photographs of the local campuses, the city and surround-
ing are also on display in a show entitled, “Returning Home.”

Sundays Child moves to 14 W Washington St.

Sunday’s Child closed its doors on North Main Street
Sunday, Oct. 14, and reopened the next day with a new ad-
dress. After nine years at the old location, owner Lucia Owens
said she is really excited to be on Washington Street.

“The walk—in traffic is unbelievable in comparison to Main
Street,” she said.

Owens said structural and plumbing problems at the old
building prompted the move. She made the final decision
when a water main burst last July and damaged $3000 worth
of merchandise.

The new location is beside Virginia Born & Bred and
across the street from Lexington Coffee Roasting. It is open
from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday to Saturday and from noon to
4 p.m. on Sunday.

Deer/y departed: Live Driver hits doe

Junior Raphael Penteado’s car struck a deer while making
Live Drive rounds the Saturday following Fall Reading Days.

Penteado, a dorm counselor, was driving his Volvo S40
out of Goshen, when a deer lept out of the surrounding woods
and hit the front of his car.

Following the hit, Penteado, who was not carrying pas~
sengers, left the deer on the road.

Following an appraisal by his insurance company,
Penteado will consult Dean of Students David Howison to
determine the University’s ﬁnancial responsibilities, if any.

Live Drive runs out of the Dean of Students ofﬁce.

— The Crime Report will return Oct. 29, 2001 —

 

are SALE ON SUITS
AND spntcoms

 

MEN LADIES
CORBIN BOWDON
GITMAN FOXCROFT
W&L TIES & BELTS (EXCLUSIVE) RICHARD SPORT
WOOLRICH CORBIN
K. GORDON WOOLRICH
ENRO LEAON LEVIN
TRAFALGAR BELTS LANZ GOWNS

SINCE 1926

Visit us again for pleasant shopping
and first quality merchandise.

he College Town Sho

111 West Nelson

Suits and Sponcoats 25% Off

Amex Visa Mastercard

 

’ 4»

‘ l

I

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

 STTRWEDITOMAL

The Phi: honest, not popular

At the risk of sounding Phi-centric, recent
events have forced us to venture into the reef-
ﬁlled water of journalism ethics and responsi-
bilities.

Most faithful readers could not imagine the
quantity of ﬂak our reporters navigate in their
attempts to bring solid news to our university.

' An issue does not go by where a story subject
or source fails to question our right to print in-
formation about them. '

Two weeks ago, a student organization at-
tempted to interdict a story we had written about
them. Representatives asked for a pre-publi-
cation copy, with attendant right of censor.

This week, someone again wanted us to
omit an important article.

Are we insensitive,‘ sensational and self-
serving? Please. Our editors go out of their way
to be fair, objective and rational. We are very
familiar with the principles of journalism, and
will not waver in our support of them.

In the name of responsible journalism, the
Phi rebuffs those who try to censor our free
and fair coverage of Washington and Lee. We
won’t retract the truth. If an article gets some-
one hot and bothered, he can reply in a letter to
the editor. People have been taking advantage
of this since editorials were invented.

Let’s be serious. The Phi doesn’t rejoice
in bad news, or burrow for the sake of
mudracking. W&L’s ofﬁcial student newspa-
per isn’t here to break down the hallowed col-
umns of our fair university.

The Phi glories in the university’s strengths:
the honor system, the speaking tradition, our strong
academics. However, everyone will talk about
those. The school spends millions to report them.

It’s much rarer to find someone who volun-
teers the negative: the occasional backtracking,
the unfortunate accident, the devastating SNAFU.

These are routinely whitewashed by the
administration and the student governmental
bodies.

It will be a rare day when Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison and Executive Commit-
tee President Rob N aftel link arms to recite
“The Top 10 Things That Stink at W&L.”

When the paper does do the necessary dig-
ging to cover a story, it is acting in the name of
responsible journalism. Always, our decision to
do so does not reﬂect our feelings or viewpoints
on the relevant issue. Hopefully, our readers
will never figure out what those opinions are. A

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

DO YOU KNOW CHRISTINE
METZGERP SHE’s MY
HELEN OF TROY.

— LIVE DRIVE CONFESSION OF CAr’s CORNER FAN

Editor-in-chief MatthewB.McDer'mott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison 'I\'inidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLatimer
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor Katie Howell

Tl-lE li.iNG~l’UlR:i PET

PINIONS

ani stan from herself

Save Afgh

The liberation of Afghanistan
has begun. Using cruise missiles and
plane—delivered payloads against care-
fully chosen targets, we have
achieved air superiority, destroyed al
Qaeda training camps, decimated the
Taliban’s military and driven the pur-
veyors of terror into the mountains
with a minimum of American and ci-
vilian casualties.

But the War on Terrorism has barely
started. Covert operations and perhaps
a ground invasion of Afghanistan are
yet to come. There is also talk of expand-
ing the offensive to other enemies of ours
in the region, such as Iraq and Syria.

The natural next question con-
cerns the future of Afghanistan. What
will become of this backward hell—hole
and any other country we invade?

We can look to the past for an-
swers. Most recently, following World
War II, we occupied both Germany
and Japan with great success. Their
democratic governments still ﬂourish
and ‘each has become a major trading
partner. Additionally, the Marshall
Plan harnessed the resources of our
ﬂourishing post—war economy to se-
cure the future of Western Europe. A
similar strategy must be employed in
Afghanistan. Not only should we, but
indeed we must engage in the messy
business of imperialism.

A more instructive adventure in
imperialism is the British Empire. Fu-
eled by a youthful population and a
fierce belief in the freedom and jus-
tice she was bringing to the world,
Great Britain served as the most civi-
lizing inﬂuence in modern history. For
example, compare India, which the
British colonized for nearly three hun-
dred years, to Africa, which was part
of European empires for only one
hundred. Today, India has modern
hospitals and schools, a ﬂourishing
economy, a democratic government,
and the civil society necessary to
make democracy work. Much of Af-
rica, on the other hand, has none of
these, except those that are provided
and administered by Westerners.

Previous generations have de-
feated fascism, put
men on the moon, and
dismantled worldwide
communism. It is time
for America to under-
take her next enterprise of grand pro-
portions. This war has not provided
us with an opportunity, but has, in-
stead, thrown it in our laps.

Demographically, the window is
closing. America is quickly graying.
Before September 1 1th, the end of So-
cial Security’s solvency due to the
changing ratio of retirees to workers
was a political priority for both parties.
We must act quickly if we wish to har-
ness the youth necessary to support
an empire, which we now have.

After our army has disposed of the
armies of terror, regiments of teachers,

Letters to the Editor

No Ma’am comment was deserved

Dear Editor,

In Imran Naeemullah’s opinions article on the state of
“Liberal fascism” on the W&L campus, he casually glanced
over one very important concept: context. When one walks
into public (yes, even the Co—op on a Sunday afternoon is
public), they put themselves into the public eye. Sadly,
but true, in today’s society what you wear is very much a

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDITOR

EMAIL nR\>vANE@\x/IIJEI)U

COLIUFSY BOrrxnrxim~tr.coxI

RHODES TRIP: America should learn from Rhodes and bring civilization to Afghanistan.

battalions of doctors and nurses and
platoons of civil servants must replace
those of artillery and infantry. We must
construct schools, hospitals and
churches, roads, airports and phone
lines, and provide water, electricity and
sanitation. We must establish a judicial
system and a democratic government
and educate the Afghans to whom we
will turn Over the operation of these in-
stitutions. We must, in fact, work to
change the very culture and bring to
them the uniquely Western values of
respect for private property, justice

through due process

RIGHT OF THE Aiéiii“ and ’““gl°“S P1‘“"‘“S‘“‘

Some have said

BRETT T, KTRWAR; ‘()4 that Afghanistan will

never be more than
warring tribes presiding over a starv-
ing populace. This view is not only
terribly pessimistic, but ignores the
facts. Zahir Shah, former ruler of Af-
ghanistan, is living in Italy, is widely
respected by the Afghan people and
has volunteered to facilitate the cre-
ation of a democratic government.
In fact, the biggest obstacles will
not be from inside Afghanistan but
from the universities and coffee shops
of the West. The same nuts who have
mutated from anti—globilization pro-
testers to anti—war/anti—America pro-
testers will easily become anti-colo-

nization protesters. These people are
working as former Mexican President
Ernesto Zedillo said, “to save the
people of developing countries from
development.” Without starvation in
the Third World, they could no longer
go on self-righteous tours and decry
the exploitation of the West.

Like their arguments against the
World Bank, free trade and biotechnol-
ogy, their arguments about ethnocen-
tiism and the need to respect regimes
that butcher citizens but are “pure,” will
be intellectually dishonest, racist, pes-
simistic and poorly disguised hatred of
America. If ignored and our goal to save
Afghanistan is pursued unceasingly,
they will dissipate as do all the unsub-
stantial ramblings of kooks.

The most damaging and
unstabilizing method we could possi-
bly employ would be to destroy terror-
ism and leave. Following the defeat of
Iraq in the Gulf War, our army stopped
at the gates of Baghdad and left a mer-
ciless, totalitarian dictator in power to
continue his missile and bio—chemical
weapons research. Although there may
be no dictator left in power and the
Taliban will have been deposed, we
must not leave Afghanistan without
having installed a stable, democratic,
America—friendly government and
working to build civil society.

ask, what if Naemullah was in the Co—op that Sunday and
someone had on a T-shirt mocking Muslims, Aﬁican-Ameri-

cans, or Jews? What would his reaction be if it was from a

statement of who you are and what you stand for.

television show that he was not familiar with and it was just
meant a “joke?” Was it not Naemullah only several weeks ago
pointing out that discrimination against Muslims should not
be tolerated? What you do in privacy is your business, but
once you bring it out in public, expect to be harassed by liberal,
moderate, and conservative “fascists” alike.

Capital campaign
overlooks Leyburn

A great deal of fanfare has been made about the
latest decision by the upper-ups to mount an unprec-
edented $225 million capital campaign, one that will en-
sure the status of Washington and Lee as a cutting-
edge institution for generations of graduating classes
to come. It is a noble goal if ever there were one.

Just as remarkable as the staggering price tag is that
even as our great nation teeters on the brink of recession,
the Board of Trustees has not ﬂinched once, and their un-
daunted attitude reveals that they are deeply convinced
that they know what is best for the university of tomorrow.

Indeed, the swarm of glossy, full-color pamphlets that
has descended on campus conﬁdently portrays an unmis-
takable manifest destiny, and a rather grand one at that.

Yet even with all this pomp and circumstance sur-
rounding the campaign, the vision “For the Rising Gen-
eration” regrettably neglects any significant focus
upon for funding for the supposed academic heart of
the Washington and Lee: Leybum Library.

I can easily understand why the Board chose to
pass on any improvements for Leyburn. On paper, it
serves its purpose
well: its shelves

COGENT COMMENTARY
store books, its com- , t
puter labs offer a —:——MNDREw LATIMER 

connection to the world, and its auditorium presents a
venue for guest speakers. Ever since the facility’s con-
struction in 1979, its doors have been open 24 hours a
day when the undergraduates are on campus, address-
ing a major complaint about the former McCormick and
Newcomb Hall libraries.

However, considering that the vast majority of the Board
attended W&L before the mid-seventies, it simply does not
know ﬁrsthand what living with Leyburn is truly like. Even as
a freshman, I know it leaves far too much to be desired.

Granted, some of the complaints are well known to
everyone by now, such as how the library’s architec-
ture is sadly incongruous with the rest of the campus
and how the decor inspires pangs of nausea far more
often than awe. While these generally—held opinions
do decrease the building’s prestige, fixing them ad-
dresses the surface of the issue and nothing more.

On a more substantial note, poor lighting has always
been a thorny problem for studying students, and the
lack of proper lighting that has made Leyburn an environ-
ment better suited for napping as opposed to studying.

For a large number of students, the library carrels
act as a studying locations of last resort, places to‘ go
only when conditions are too distracting in the dorm
rooms. I know that I am already a member of that group.

Yet any patron of the library knows that its worth does
not stem solely from the ﬁt and ﬁnish of its architecture, but
also the consistent and dedicated acquisition of new books
for educators and students alike. To let the shelves lie stag-
nant constitutes a slap in the face for professors attempting
to prepare informative and innovative lectures for their
courses, as well as for students working on research papers
must have access to the best literary resources available.

This is not to say that the library staff does not
presently accomplish this task; indeed, its diligence is
commendable. However, the Board’s willingness to rest
on its laurels and not commit to a considerable renewal
of a 22-year-old structure is troubling.

Indeed, the Board’s actions seem to conﬂict with its very
intent. To quote directly from one of the many campaign
brochures, "Tire quality of the programs are, inlarge measure,
inﬂuenced by the quality of the facilities in which those activi-
tiesoccur. . .tl1isis whyitiscommittedtocreating facilities
that will have a positive impact on student life.”

In no better way can this be achieved than by ﬁrmly
establishing a focal point for learning. Washington and
Lee University deserves an academic center of which it
can be truly proud. In spite of all it now does well,
Leyburn in its current state will never fulfill that role.

To improve upon the Leybum’s facilities effectively
reafﬁrms the irnportanoe of academics at Washington and
Lee at a time when we ﬁnd ourselves competing harder and
harder for exemplary applicants from across the nation.

I cannot help but think back to when I toured Wash-
ington and Lee during my college search. My tour guide did
not even bother to waste more than a few sentences on
Leybum, feeling no reason to draw attention to it. All I
learned was it was ugly and did not ﬁt in on campus.

All of this after the great years—long struggle to
build a dedicated place of learning for the university, a
ﬁght that has raged since the days of librarian Blanche

Sincerely,
Phil Walotsky ‘05

When you wear something that pokes fun at femi-
nism, and its context is not categorically understood, you
will be seen by those who do not understand the joke as
someone who is a chauvinist pig. Chances are, that the
woman who called Naeemullah, “disgusting,”
had probably never seen that “Married With
Children” episode and she probably thought of him as a
chauvinist. I completely disagree with him when he makes
the claim, “one must also realize the T-shirt is a joke.” If you
just hear the punch line, a joke is not funny.

But I would like to bring up amore imp ortantant point, the
practice of blatant discrimination or racism in public. May I

Photo Editor MaryGuy

Photographers Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks
Paul Seifert
William Litton
Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring—tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

P. McCrum and Professor Edgar Sharmon, two figures
who launched the library into the modern era back in
the ’20s and ’30s. In Dr. ShaImon’s own words, there
must be a move towards “less textbook instruction in
the classroom and more individual investigation by stu-
dents. (The library was becoming) a treasure house for
exploration... the education center of the institution.”
To have the Board ignore this voice from the past will
only be viewed by future generations as a lamentable folly
and lack of proper wisdom and foresight. The library, now
more than ever, must receive the attention it deserves.

Editor’s Note- Naeemullah responds." Walotsky ac-
curately points out that what you wear symbolizes what
you believe in. However, he fails to differentiate between
mocking a political belief and defaming a religion or racial
group. The lack of this key information is underscored by
the fact that Walotsky ignores the point of my article,
which was that believing so militantly in one’s cause that
one becomes a bigot in his own right is wrong, and that
an aggressive and indecent reaction is contradictory to
the concepts of freedom and civil society.

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059 ». -..
Email: phi@wlu.edu “svvipingithorne.”
http.//phz.wlu.edu _Linc0ln Rose ‘O3

“Hanging outwith ﬁat guys.”
-Aisya Pumsley ‘O5

“ThatIrrIiss them.”
-Vicky Stanharn ‘05

“Drinking.”
-Joe Waldron ‘05

“Smoking.”
-Adrienne Darniani ‘O5

  

 

PAGE 4



 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

Letter to the editor regarding talentless, useless letters to the editor

Dear Editor,

I was just sitting inmy room on
Sunday morning and realized that I
wanted the school to hear my com-
plaints. Iknew the best way to do this
was the write a poorly written letter to
the editor.

Moreover, I am not the most cre-
ative crayon in the pack, so I had to
write in response to another article.
The best part about writing a letter to
the editor is that it requires no liter-
ary, journalistic or insightful merit.

First and foremost, there’s the
issue of hooking up. It’s morally des-
picable to engage in promiscous acts
of fornication. Even though we are
relatively young, I only feel it is my

“hooking up.” We were never fresh-
man, so we never did any of that.

Therefore, I am completely in the
right in citing the seemingly innocu-
ous hooking up scene as disgraceful.
Granted they are having fun, but the
real goal of college is to educate, and
to get myself into law school by uti-
lizing the Phi as a forum to glorify
myself. Let’s be honest here, why
would anyone want to capitalize on
their youthful good looks? It’s more
important to maintain a self-righteous
image that probably isn’t concordant
with your actual deeds.

I knew the predetermined culture
of W&L before I enrolled here, but
that only makes writing letters to the
editor easier on my part. For instance,

alcohol will never cease to provide me
with endless complaint material. When
I was applying to W&L, I ignored the
statistical Princeton Review drinking
claims because I don’t drink.

It’s easy to be straight edge at
BYU, but why do
that when I can
come here and
make myself the
martyr? When I
was in Florida over the summer, all of
my friends got really drunk, and I
ended up having to take care of them.
They’re not friends with me anymore
because they realized I was boring.

Whenever someone shares a
different opinion than me, I find it a

 
 

N¢iEiiaErTii‘§*E%éL%lE


ter to the editor and burden the
school with my mindless complaints
that are probably wasting everyone’s
time. In fact, I’m sure everyone is a
lot stupider for having read my letter
to the editor. Actually, half the time, I
don’t even care that
passionately about
that which I write,
but I do like to hear
myself speak, and,
by the same token, like to see my
name in print. .
However, probably the greate

folly of the whole “letter—to-the-edi-
tor” fiasco is that I vaguely believe
that there are students out there slap-
ping their knees in empathy, saying,
“You’re right! I know exactly how

you feel!” If but only one person
does that, I have succeeded, and
hopefully, perhaps I have made a
friend to replace the ones I lost in
Florida.

Sometimes I do wish I could em-
ploy my God—given creativity, but I
think it’s on the fritz because the only
time I can think of something to write
about is when someone else writes a
“Problem #329 with W&L article” that
I can rebuff, whether or not I actually
disagree with it. I think my next letter
to the editor, (because seriously, does
anyone really stop at just one letter?),
will argue the sports page. That per-
haps is the only section of the paper
that has been spared from vintage
W&L bitterness.

I like to swim against the current.
Or if come next Sunday, I don’t think
my tragically iconoclastic, self-righ-
teous voice has been aptly repre-
sented in the previous week, I can al-
ways just tack my Phi up on a dart
board and refute whatever article the
dart hits, even if’s about something
upright like the honor code. Or even
if it’s another letter to the editor.

Sincerely,
Kris Pollina ‘O3

Postscript: Perhaps I’m being too
hard. I apologize. Without meaning-
less complaints, I myself, would have
nothing to write about. Thanks for
fostering my story ideas.

duty to denounce the aforementioned

Politically correct ‘society of tolerance’ leaves cannot accomodate religious views

In the last issue of the Ring-tum Phi, Ramsey’s article
provides a very passionate argument against voting for
the Virginia GOP ticket, namely based on an accusation
that Mark Earley and Jay Katzen are bigots who are op-
posed to homosexual rights, namely gay marriage.

Now, there are several ﬂaws in the article, at least a
sampling of which must be illustrated before the larger
and more crucial issue raised by this article is addressed.

First of all, Ramsey suggests that
Katzen “sees homosexuality not as a natu-
ral difference in sexual preference, but
rather a sexual perversion,” something
Katzen never said. Ramsey claims that if
someone believes that homosexuals choose their lifestyle,
they are unfit for public office, which is a judgment as
intolerant as he accuses the GOP ticket of being.

There is no scientific proof that homosexuals have
any say in their sexual preference. Without this scientific
basis, Ramsey is merely accusing Katzen of being unfit
for office on account of a political opinion, an action which
is in fact more intolerant than the opinion itself.

And that is the issue of grave importance raised by
this issue. Today’s “society of tolerance,” is in fact, intol-
erant of monotheistic religion. That, like Ramsey’s charge
of bigotry, is a bold claim, but a claim which I will defend,
and demonstrate using as an example the issue of homo-
sexuality and gay rights.

Each of the world’s three major monotheistic religions
- Islam, Judaism, and Christianity — condemn homosexu-
ality as a sin. None of the faithful in these religions claim
to be without sin. However, we generally acknowledge
our sins as wrong and strive to avoid committing them.

Up to this point, our “society of tolerance” has no
problem with my views and opinions. I expect that the left

   
 

lot easier to just compose a weak let-

wing would embrace my freedom to hold these beliefs.
However, it iswhen I attempt to incorporate my religious
beliefs fully into my life that society in fact does not toler-
ate those beliefs.

For instance, my religion asks me to believe that it is
the absolute truth, that my god’s truth is the one absolute
in life. This is no different from Judaism or Islam’s beliefs
in the God of their religion. This is not to say that we

dismiss that valuable lessons can be

 FIGHTING THE CURRENT learned from other religions, and that we
____  oHN_§_osHorgr;1 ‘05

dismiss them as totally useless, but we do
not believe that they are the truth. That is
the fundamental belief behind monotheis-
tic faith — that there is one way that is true and right, and
all the others may be noble in particular ways, but that
they are not the most noble, the most true, and the most
right way.

It is because of this belief that monotheistic religions
are able to set down religious law as to what is right and
what is wrong, what is sin and what is righteous: so the
fact that we believe in one absolute truth is why we con-
demn homosexuality as a sin. That is why the “society of
tolerance” is intolerant, because by calling for everyone
to tolerate all beliefs and accept them as right (making
truth relative), they are automatically intolerant of mono-
theistic faiths, which I will be the first one to admit, are not
tolerant religions in that they believe in one absolute truth.

Furthermore, monotheists are not tolerated by greater
society when they attempt to fully incorporate their faith
into their lives simply for the reason that they are trying to
fully incorporate their faith into their lives. My religion
calls for me to place my God above all things, and to let
Christian truth permeate every aspect of my lifestyle. One’s
god is whatever is valued and worshiped above all else,

Alvin-

 Drws Toy Coats

HIIIEII.

Eemtia

102 W. Washington Street
463-5383

WELCOME PARENTS

-wodﬁch. - Mend - Lgcustue - M -Wing Boots
. ]nu% wuntcJ  Tuxedo:
. Fancy  lull Tie Sell
-«  Belts, Tia, Dog Collars

mnnrrrs WEEKEND sr-rrcrrrr.
surrs mt SPOILTCOATS 20% off

\-'1SA.,. MASTERCARII. 5TUIENT CI'lalII.'u'E!LCCEPTED
is sun&  .

the end to which one’s life is directed. However, the “so-
ciety of tolerance” demands that harmony and concord
be valued above all else, which inherently excludes the
aim towards an absolute truth and a single supreme God.

So how does this all relate to homosexuality and gay
rights? As I mentioned above, each of the monotheistic
religions conderrms homosexuality as a sin, and at least as
a Christian, I cannot believe that homosexuality is any-
thing but a choice to live a sinful life. This would seem to
be doubly sinful to most, including me. However, I am
sure I am guilty of many of these choices as well, and I am
not to hate the sinner. I am, in fact, to hate the sin, and my
lifestyle should reﬂect my hate of all sin and decisions I
make and actions I take should be illustrations of that
lifestyle.

This means that I cannot support measures which
endorse homosexuality, such as legalization of gay mar-
riage and other rights bestowed which provide for the
endorsement of the lifestyle. This means I must keep in
mind when I trek to the polls on Election Day which
candidates support measures to endorse sin and vice
versa, because as a faithful Christian I must hate sin, and
demonstrate this through my lifestyle. This, too, is unac-
ceptable by our “society of tolerance;” according to stan-
dards of tolerance, religious beliefs should not inﬂuence
political beliefs and decisions. Generally in order to ar-
gue this point, the crusaders of tolerance begin citing
the Bill of Rights in which church and state are to be
separated. However, the Constitution was not intended
to eradicate the full practice of monotheistic religion from
our nation, which seems to be the intention of the “soci-
ety of tolerance.”

Ramsey provided an argument worth reading in the
last Phi. However, he failed to delve deep enough into the

 
 
  

Q)L’l(IF,sY Vrt Drpr. or l)H1S().\NFl_.»t\D "llumxc
TRULY TOLERANT: Mark Earley stands for conventional morality.

issue and reveal the real problem. Monotheistic religion
is at odds with our society’s prevalent aim at forming a
tolerant community, and in fact that community is intoler-
ant of a life truly committed to following a monotheistic
faith due to its inherent characteristics of one God as the
absolute truth and utmost guiding force in a believer’s
life, a problem for which there is neither a simple or tan-
gible solution for, but certainly without a solution if we
remain ignorant of the problem.

 

Coforziafarrd Cozmt
,r:or.LE.¢::'rror~r
New Arrittalsl
i.I.-ex_i.rsg‘t;o‘n I.rI.'iét‘i;.€:1r'i.r:. B11.i_Idi.I1f;.§-:51 l;3‘E="=’°f£§§ F?’

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

  
   

 
  

1

L

‘ 5

= a

PAGE 5

BY MEG HASTON
STAFF WRITERS

I entered the Co-op yesterday and proceeded to grab a
drink from the back room that always seems to be crowded
with students late for class. As my turn came to pay for
my Nantucket Nectars beverage, I quickly searched my
wallet and produced my university card, not wanting to
hold up the line.

It was just another day. Pat Deacon was sitting at the
register with that trademark smile on her face, watching me
fumble half of my belongings while searching for my card.
At this point, “Food or general” is usually the first question
from Pat. But what follows on most days, as well as today,

V Tina: li.lN(j%-"ll7[?xrl lit»-ljij
W &LlFE

' Day after day, Deacon delights in doing daily duties

  

imrlli l1U\’lLl.LAr\l)lVlATlHL\\~ r\l(_lJL.t\;\lUll
SLT>rRws1NGPAGEEDnoRs
E\lAll.'1’Hl@\VlU.FDL'

is a cheerful, “How are ya’, darlin’?” or a “Nice to see you
again, sweetie” in a southern Virginia accent that is com-
mon here at W&L.

One of Pat’s co—workers, Katrina Knick, said Pat’s good
nature and cheerful disposition help her do her job.

“Pat’s just great with the kids,” Knick said.

Pat Deacon grew up in Rockbridge County and
graduated from Lexington High School in 1974. Besides
a brief move to Baltimore, Maryland, Pat and her family
have lived here for their entire lives. After high school,
Pat married and started a family. Now a happy divorcée
who raises bucket calves as her primary job, Pat loves
coming to work at the Co—op everyday and has done so
for five years.

800-787-3787 for a FREE brochure or email:
bookit@studentexpress.com
www.studentexpress.com

We need feature writers. . .and
   email p/7z@u//Mir;

Student Express is now hiring sales reps. Cancun features FREE meals and parties @ Fat Tuesdays-
MTV Beach Headquarters. Acapulco, Matazatlan, Jamaica, Bahamas, South Padre, Florida. Prices
from $469, with major airlines. 24,000 travelers in 2001. Call

However, the two people she is most proud of raising
are her two children. Her son, Brent, 24, is a graduate of
Virginia Technical Institute in Blacksburg and works in
Asheville, North Carolina. Her daughter, Hillary, is a senior
at the University of North Carolina in Asheville not too far
from her brother. In her spare time, Pat enjoys crafts and
making her home as charming and warm as her personality.

Before working at the Co—op and before her days as a
cattle raiser, Pat was a nurse at Stonewall Jackson Hospital
for 15 years. Serving Lexington and Rockbridge County as
a nurse was a rewarding experience for Pat, but she missed
her kids and wanted to work in an environment where kids
were around her all the time. “I don’t work here for the
money or anything else. I work here ‘cause I love the kids.”

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

Since her arrival ﬁve years ago, Pat feels students here at
W&L have changed for the better. On the new alcohol situa-
tion, Pat offered some encouraging comments. “The kids are
much more aware of it [the new policy]. Kids are much more
responsible now than when I first started working here.”

Pat mostly hopes that we students realize how impor-
tant these years are to our future. Pat said these are the
best years of our lives.

“Take advantage of them, and, most importantly, get a
good education.”

So when you are in the Co—op, buying a Colonnade
Club, say “hello” to Pat, ask after her kids and share some
part of your day with a devoted member of the staff who
delights in coming to work everyday with a smile.

Fraternities * Sororities *
Clubs * Student Groups

Earn $1 ,OOO-$2,000 this semester with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event.
Does not involve credit card applications. Fundraising
dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact
Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

Bluegrass llallll
available In nanies

205 llonll Main street lexinuton, llll 24450
PIIonel54lll4li3-545 rlImusit:@clvl.com

Guitars, Amps, I'.ll.s, Band Instrument Ilentals
ﬂood Products. Good Prices, Good service

“lliana and Illﬂ Tabasco BOYS"

Rﬂﬁﬂﬁﬂllﬁlihf
sings

, ......__...s«»».»..,.x.m.,m»,.....Y.-,.-.

  
 

 HOT LENSES!

WE  DO IT!

Repairs - Cnnzaets
COOL 

SHABESZ ,

25* years s.sm’r.‘{g Rncknridge
at 3&3 N... 2%-.éa.in Street. isxinggters
4E3«?44C3

     
 

  
   

  
Sun '5 Child '
Lex!n.9‘tonirFeert?0od,5‘ro2-er

Glow Stars, Posters, Incense,
Candles, Scents & Inspiration

Bangles, Beads twliaubles
Cards, Stationary E2 Stickers
Angels. ran-res e Ewes
Tore. Tors «V Tors
Cassettes, CD3, Books 6‘: Calendars

Learn to Play! Again
at sundars Child!
 MOVED!

14 West Wmiington 5:. Lgmgtm $63-183% mas}
e Open10-6 Mon.-Sat.ana12—.=. on Sun. e

Bring IE5 Minﬁrnﬂmdisactunaffof 29' nn.-them pimhms.

by Rebecca. llfﬁlman
directed by Tern Z-iaegler

     

 

by=G»ee1rge: (.11. 'Wol.fe
i<i;i;re:(::te.«tfi:. ey

  

Itar:-e* ileaet I‘ufumnati.o«n,.

  

Miarshal B. Mcﬁeflem.

     

iiﬁftav. ,2,  8%; 3 at 8 ;:r.xr:..€
War’. 4 at 2 p...n‘1.§}

    
 

   

cart ens-sane 

  
 

 
 
  

‘Nov. 1., 5 3:‘: 7  3  3 
Nev. 3 as .2  if

  
   

ww+wA,_4_w_w/+ﬂvwﬂwiy\

 a grmat    

Come by and 3&3 SF-9'15!)-,. Maﬁa, Connie _arrd l..-1.-'F.l‘s-::-n-.

SKIP THOi'll'lPSOl"~l’S 

BARBER SHOP

22 5. Main Street - Lexington, VA

Open J's.-:|'r::tn-_, Tue-3.. _I'1".|-U!"-5.... at Farr‘. -El a.-1-1-. — 5p.m.;
3-Elf. 8 a.m. — noon; Cﬁosed L'1.«‘Ecf. 3. Sun.

540-463~5Q5-Ii

 

 

E
.—--I-'
C‘ ""=.!
_..J"' --—...

Il/'94/1'b»‘.7.ﬁ II/9/i.ﬁ/iﬂ/*/F/3/3/3/i.ﬂ I!/'1'l./if?

  

.. .1.s.e.. I-_~w.:..L$oN_ 31: 1-F.3?.~.U1‘.~'G'.1'.¢?’1*i.. teen. 1-. =i_e4.-—.+.=.=.ss..
_PRtDBLEMS wrrrf THE Le::rc:.4L$- ?
.WE”R?E FR?“ *4.7.1°4l'?T'4 !

LADIES 1.-us ARE’

GIVING AWAY M'c.'?Af£}*’
*FRE'E,_,TLn‘.KE sex ALL Mrem"

* SPECIALS r C-AN’T PRINT HERE
*RAF?-‘LE FOR £50 MINI SHOPPING
sense .41’ wet LLY WCVRLD. .4. LUCKY
1..-aw smtnsmr H».-4.5 ALREADY we:-M

THJ[ICE r WEDNESDAY .1

ff!

I-‘I

"iNHHiNV\KN\t\.hH\N\Ni-H\>

 

F M M M VI/'1/i/'1ﬂ Vﬂ/f Mﬂﬂ/l 4' M/Wﬂ

. eve V NI 1* T _
15 oz. T~ some sr's.4r< wrm .4 MIX

GREEN SA LAD Am-D BAKED‘ POTATG
$' 6.50 '
-we ARE THE PLACE Fore FGOTBHLL
* NFL summer TICKET
* are no 6 GAMES AT cm: TIME
*.25 CENT wrruc-rs AND MANY omen
_ saeecmts
*Mt‘.'Ji'U‘DAY NIGHT recreate w/.25
CENT wrrues «AND 2 FOR 1 status
MILCH Mame.

s -. ~\.N\N~¢\¢\N\N\N\¢\Ne'%§s‘e\~\i i

 

ilﬁllihtilih§¥-Illiiltlliilthilli‘

 

  

PAGE 6

  
&L ‘E

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

W&L student coaches lead youth soccer teams to righteous Victories

BY DAN TORTORA
STAFF WRITER

Senior Jack Robb has a dilemma. As “coach of a
Rockbridge Area Recreation Organization (RARO) soccer
team, he had tried diligently to keep his team from running
up the score on their opponents.

Robb stresses sportsmanship and having fun above ev-
erything else.

“We try not to let scoring matter,” Robb said.

His team “The Bobcats,” a coed group of Lexington eight
and nine—year olds, outscored its opponents 31-0 through its
ﬁrst four games, while allowing only a single shot.

Robb is in his second year as a volunteer soccer coach
with RARO, and is enjoying himself immensely. “This has
been fantastic for me,” says Robb, and the kids are having
a great season.

Robb is one of several Washington and Lee students
who are active this fall in coaching youth soccer in the
community. Other Washington and Lee Students like Se-
nior Amanda Adams, coach in RARO’s senior division, an
age bracket of ten to thirteen year olds.

Adams coaches a team of girls from Fairfield. Al-
though coaching her first year in the division, she has

been coaching soccer for the past four years. As a
freshman and sophomore, Adams was an assistant
coach with Professor Mark Rush. Last year, she and
Robb coached a team in the eight and nine year-old
division.

This year, Adams has enjoyed coaching an all-girls
team and teaching the game at a higher level. She has
found the challenges to be different as well. Adams re-
members last year’s main difficulty being discipline. This
year, it is in keeping their attention.

“The girls talk nonstop,” Adams laughed.

Alhough all her players had previous soccer experi-
ence, the wide range of ages in the league was difficult for
some of the younger kids.

“Because the age span is so big, the ten—year-olds had
a lot farther to go,” Adams explains.

Sophomore Carson Penkava has a similar observation.
The majority of the boys who play on his senior—division
team players on his team are only ten or eleven years old.
Some have never played before.

“I’ve been going back to fundamentals, simple things,”
Penkava said. “A lot of the kids are really eager to get
better,” Penkava observes.

“I’ve already seen so much improvement.”

Penkava attributes much of his success to his time
playing soccer in high school and to ‘his assistant
coaches. Penkava’s friend Adam Geist assists with the
coaching duties_. “Its tough sometimes when you need
to be authoritative,” Penkava says. This is where
Penkava’s other assistant coach, Professor Carl Kaiser,
is particularly helpful. Kaiser’s son Matt plays striker on
the team.

Understanding offsides is especially difﬁcult. Senior Rob
Ludwig and his assistant coach Clark Savolaine, who coach
a separate boys team in the senior division, have taught
their team an advanced tactic to draw an unsuspecting player
on the other team offsides.

“I’m really impressed with the skill level,” Ludwig’s
goalkeeper coach Clark Savolaine says.

Ludwig has coached soccer for several years, but
this is his first experience with RARO. He leads his
team in laps around the field before games and prac-
tices twice a week. Robb’s team also practices twice a
week. One of these sessions is devoted to individual
position play. Penkava and Adams limit their teams to
one practice each week.

In addition to the practices, Robb’s team plays a seven-
game schedule over eight weeks.

“Its not a huge time comn1itment,” says Robb. Ludwig,
Penkava and Adams will have slightly longer seasons,
because their senior division teams play eight games and
will conclude the season with a tournament.

All coaches agree that this season has been a great
experience for them.

“I would have (coached) since I was a freshman,” Robb
said. “I just didn’t know of the opportunity.”

Robb adds that it has been a good chance to meet kids

and parents in the community: “The parents have been V

fantastic,” he said. Savolaine agrees: “The parents have
been really supportive.”

Parents of kids on teams coached by Washington and
Lee students are pleased with the instruction their chil-
dren are receiving and the fun they are having. “Amanda
knows what she’s doing. They’re in good hands,” says
Jimmy Thompson, whose daughter Catrina plays on
Adams’ team.

Perhaps most important of all, the kids on these teams
coached by Washington and Lee students are having a
tremendous time. Both players and coaches have en-
joyed their experience.

“I wouldn’t care if we lost every game,” Ludwig said, .

“I’d still be here.”

.04‘-‘P using-90*

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies" Shoes, Clothing and
Accessories

23 N. Main.St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 463-5988

 

Help United Way help
the community. . .

Webmaster wanted, minimal experience required

email mcdermottm@wlu.edu. . .

  
 

L KINCTON

Naﬂl eliilahle: W&L terry tube:
and t-nnwcla. Pla.::e_}-nu; cu;-dc: fa;
Chn-Itmu
4*

I-ﬂ‘Fn'=1I:;“l Ddnnntijig Aooesmries,

O ﬁanrﬂlﬂecaudu-nu. _ -
U _Cd1Iia:mu:)eena-.1.-rianu

Frau Glﬁwlﬂpbiﬂi
‘*5 A dupeeiai Place 6 2. §:§i'sZS'.?§:ﬂ.'

   
   

country assignments are due this week

the meeting this Thursday @ 9:00

Model United Nations
reminds
all members

that

email reynoldsj @ wlu.edu

and don’t forget

C—School Rm. 221

 

Welcome W&L Parents !

While you’re enjoying downtown Lexington
take a little break & treat yourself
at Lexington ’s Coziest Meeting Place

 

Caroline ’s Sweets

&
Robert ’s Coffee Bar

Delicious Homebaked Pastries
&
Fresh Brewed Coffees
Espresso, Latte, Cappuccino, Tea, Chai, Italian
Sodas

8 North Main Street
Downtown Lexington

Come relax a while. We’re open all weekend
Monday—Thursday: 8:00 AM—5 :3 0 PM

Friday & Saturday: 8: 00 AM—10:00 PM
Sunday: 1 0:00 AM—-1 :00 PM

 

 _I__‘

JAVA

AT THE GHCL

PERRY SMITH.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22
8:30 P.Ivt.-MIDNIGHT

 

 

 

    

j‘m'I'*‘RANRIiN

' SPORTS EDITOR

_Eiv_IAI;PRANI<IR\g@wID.E)U

ii

   

MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
. SPORTS EDITOR

Going into the ﬁnal week of the regu-
lar season, the Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team has dropped two of

' its last three contests.

But don’t think that Ro1fPirai1ian and
his team are hanging their heads about

_ their perfonnance in the past two weeks.

“We don’t have a negative percep-
tion that we’ve lost two of our last three,”

Piranian said. “We’re playing hard every

game, so we have a little more positive

A perception of the last three.

“We’re playing hard, and we’re get-
ting pretty good chances. We’re play-
ing pretty good soccer overall.”

The Generals traveled to south

‘ ‘Georgia for a non-conference match

against the Savannah College of Art

“ and Design on Oct. 12, which they won
1 5-3 to extend their winning streak to

seven games.

Senior David Kodack, junior Kevin
Bibona, sophomore Jacob Stoehr and
freshman Adam Chesbrough scored
ﬁrst—half goals for W&L, and junior

9 Brad Murphy pushed the lead to 5-0

-3’

.. .4

.._1;...._.. ._‘_l. i. 4  ...- __ (f . .

early in the second half. Senior An-
drew Grimes had two assists, and
Murphy and freshman Brian Pirkle tal-
lied one apiece.

W&L takes third place in conference

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

In the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference preseason poll, the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s soccer team was
picked to ﬁnish in third place, behind
Lynchburg and Roanoke. The predic-
tions ended up being completely cor-
rect after a difﬁcult 3-0 loss to Roanoke
on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals (10-4, 9-2 ODAC)
ended their season with only two con-
ference losses, a 4-1 setback to
Lynchburg in the first game of the sea-
son and the loss on Saturday.

In the matchup against Roanoke,
the Maroons opened the scoring at
the 38:39 mark of the first half when
Shelly Olds put a shot past Abigail
Pfeffer, who made ﬁve saves in goal
in her fourth start for the Generals.

The Generals hung tough with
Roanoke, who held a one—goal lead
until Jill Hoffmeister scored two goals
in the last 10 minutes of the game.

“We shouldn’t have lost that
game. The score didn’t reﬂect how
close the game was,” sophomore
Meghan Hayde said. “Still, we didn’t
come out and play like we’ve been
practicing recently.”

The loss in the season ﬁnale ended
a nine-game" conference winning
streak that included victories over
Guilford and Hollins during the weeks
before and after the Reading Days
break. The Generals, however, did
drop a non-conference match to
Carnegie Mellon 1-0 on Oct. 13.

  

Trlra lil:‘\7t”:}--Tl,‘fi§l»

PORTS

Men’s socer remains atop ODAC

I PEI

 

SLIDING FEET-FIRST: Senior co-captain David Koclack attempts to tackle the ball
away from an Eastern Mennonite player in the Generals’ 2-0 win W/ednesday

afternoon at the Liberty Hall Fields.

Junior Tim Foley shut out Sa-
vannah for nearly 60 minutes be-
fore being relieved by classmate
Brad Hearn. Savannah fought back
to cut the lead to two, including two
goals by John Attridge in 28 sec-
onds.

In the Oct. 10 match against
Hollins, the W&L offense exploded
for ﬁve goals and was led by junior
Jenny Thomas and senior Kate
Bidwell. Thomas tallied two goals on
the day, her first of the season.

Fellow co-captain Bidwell added a
goal and two assists, with freshman
Maggie Hope and senior Drew Pow-
ers rounding out the scoring.

Sophomore Susaimah Hewlett added
an assist while classmate Fontaine
Marcoux accumulated her W&L record-
tying llth assist of the season.

The next weekend, W&L suffered
a double-overtime 1-0 loss to non-con-
ference opponent Carnegie Mellon.
The Generals and Tartans experienced
numerous scoring opportunities, but
were unable to put anything past the
goalkeepers in regulation.

Pfelfermade 14 saves on the day, stop-
ping everything until Camegie—Mellon
scored with 1:49 left in double overtime.

The Generals turned the tables,
however, in an exciting 1-0 victory over
conference foe Guilford on Tuesday.

Bidwell scored her team—leading
ninth goal of the season at the 44:03
mark off a crossing pass from Hewlett,
placing her one goal from a tie for
third place in all—time goals at W&L.
Bidwell has scored 32 goals in her
W&L career.

The victory also marked the eighth
straight season that the Generals have
recorded 10 wins.

With the victory against Guilford
and subsequent loss at Roanoke, the
Generals earned the No. 3 seed in the

W&L remained in Savannah for a
neutral-site Old Dominion Athletic
Conference match against Guilford.
The Quakers handed the Generals
their first conference loss of the year,
as Tim lmafran scored the only goal
of the game in the ﬁrst half.

MEG FFRRiRi/ T/J? Rzig-tum Phi

The Generals returned home
on Wednesday with a 2-0 win
over Eastern Mennonite. Stoehr
scored in the first half off an as-
sist from classmate Bret Grote for
a 1-0 lead.

Grote added a goal of his own
early in the second half, assisted by
Stoehr and Grimes. Foley made four
saves to record the shutout.

On Saturday, W&L lost a non-
conference match on the road to St.
Mary’s by a 1-0 score. Ryan Olsen
scored at the 62: 19 mark to give the
Seahawks a 1-0 lead, and Micah
Spiegel shut out the Generals with
seven saves in net.

“Our kids played their hearts out
on Saturday, and we were unlucky,”
Piranian said.

W&L (9-3-1, 7-1 ODAC) will
clinch the top seed and homeﬁeld
advantage in the conference tour-
nament if they win Thursday at
Bridgewater, which is 0-8 in ODAC
play.

“Our next game is Bridgewater,”
Piranian said. “We’re working
hard to prepare for them.
(Homefield advantage) has been
one of our goals that we set for
ourselves. To be at home in the
tournament is an edge.”

MARY GUY/ T/Jr Ring-/um P/11'

RIGHT FOOT PLANTED:_lunlOt"LlnClS€y Duran winds up in \X/&L’s 1-0 loss to non-
conference opponent Carnegie—Mellon on Oct. 13.

ODAC Tournament. They will host
Randolph-Macon in the quarterﬁnals
on Tuesday at 2:30 p.m.

The Generals handed Randolph-
Macon a 4-1 defeat early in the sea-
son, but the playoffs offer a different
atmosphere.

“We’ve improved since the begin-
ning of the year, but we’ve been in a
slump,” Hayde said. “We need to get
back to where we were and have a

Cross country runs at Gettysburg

BY IAN R. MCILROY

SPORTS WRITER

GETTYSBURG, Pa.—On Saturday morning, the

 

Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross coun-
try teams competed at the Gettysburg Invitational. De-
spite injuries on both squads, each one turned in a
strong performance.

The Washington and Lee men ﬁnished 13th out of 25
teams with 377 points. ‘

“Our guys turned in a strong performance in a field of
about 270 runners,” men’s coach John Tucker said.

Leading the way for the men was junior Will
Teichman, who crossed the tape in 27:58.56 for a 46th-
place finish. Also turning in strong performances were
sophomore Andrew Fotinos, who placed 88th with a
time of 28:51.68, and freshman Steven Chambers, who
ﬁnished 91st in 28:54.20.

“Talking with the host coach, I found that the times
should actually have an asterisk by them in that the
sourse was nearly 200 meters longer than the stan-
dard five miles,” Tucker said. “Without the services
of our No. 1, (sophomore) Andy Schorr, guys like An-
drew Fotinos have really become competitive runners
in a dramatic way this season and achieved their best
times.”

Garnering 486 points in the invitational, the women
placed 17th out of 26 teams. More importantly for the
women, all 10 runners competing this weekend either
achieved an all-time personal record or a season—best
:ime.

“I don’t think our overall place in the ﬁeld gives a very
good indication of how well we are really doing,” women’s
zoach Amy Schuckert said. “You can’t ask for anything
setter than a PR (personal record) or season best-perfor-
nance, and we had 10 of them this weekend.”

 

STEPPING UP: Sophomore Andrew Fotinos and the Generals
placed 13th of 25 teams at Saturday’s Gettysburg Invitational.

Junior Burke Duncan led the way for the women, placing
eighth overall with a time of 18:35.80. Senior Lucy Rankin
crossed the tape with a time of 21:15.03 to ﬁnish in lllth
place. Sophomore Vanessa Adams ﬁnished in 120th place
with a time of 21:21.84, while freshman Alexis Fernandez
turned in a 122nd-place finish with a time of 21 :26.35.

“The most important thing we can do is get our legs
underneath us and get mentally prepared for the week-
end,” Schuckert said.

With hopes of a strong conference finish, both the
men’s and women’s cross country teams will return to
action next Saturday at the ODAC Championships, hosted
by Virginia Wesleyan.

good practice on Monday.”

If the Generals win, they face a large
probability that they will play one of
the teams that handed them a confer-
ence loss this season in order to re-
turn to the finals.

“Right now, we’re looking at one
game at a time. We need to come out
ready to play,” Hayde added. “But,
without a doubt, we want to get to
the ﬁnal and win the ODAC.”

PAGE 7

Generals keep momentum
going with pair of road wins

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

SEWANEE, Tenn.—Junior Chris
Sullivan rushed for 147 yards and
three touchdowns, and senior Marc
Watson added 120 yards and a score
on the ground as Washington and
Lee erased a 17-0 ﬁrst-half deﬁcit to
win 28-24 win against Sewanee on
Saturday.

The Generals pulled above .500 for
the first time this year at 4-3. They also
carry a three-
game winning
streak into
Saturday’s game
against fourth-
ranked and unde-
f e a t e d
Bridgewater, the
favorite to win the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

“We were on a slide last year at this
point, now we’re playing on the rise, so
to speak,” W&L coach Frank Miriello
said. “The confidence level is as good
as it can be for this kind of game.”

Miriello believes that the Generals’
play in the trenches has helped the
offense to turn its season around.

“The offensive line is to be
complimented for their coming of
age,” he said. “They are performing
now at a level that can produce those
kinds of results. I’m glad the offen-
sive line now is ready for that kind of
a challenge.”

Sewanee sprinted to a 17-0 lead,
including a TD pass from Kirk
Holtgurewe to Dale Williams and a
blocked punt returned for a score.
Sullivan plunged in from 2 yards out
to cut the halftime advantage to 17-7.

“The storyline basically was they
got every break imaginable in the
ﬁrst half,” Miriello said. “We went in
at halftime and told them that that’s
what was going on. Everything was
calm. We made a couple of adjust-
ments at halftime and came back in

WIGINTON

. tt1,¢—.s¢¢9I1d.ha1f-”

Watson’s l—yard run‘ in the third
quarter put the Generals within three.
Sullivan scored again on the first play
of the fourth quarter from 6 yards out
to put W&L in the lead.

 

After Holtgurewe’s l—yard TD run
put Sewanee back in front, Sullivan an-
swered with a 23-yard score of his own
to give the Generals the lead for good.

Miriello knows what his team must
do to knock off Bridgewater when the
two teams square off at Wilson Field.

“No mistakes, error-free football as
far as turnovers, as far as no penal-
ties,” he said. “Defensively, we have
to play our best game ever to hold up
under the kind of firepower that
Bridgewater presents to us.”

W&L 39, Hampdenasi/dney12

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY—W&L
sophomore Peter Dean threw for 236
yards, including three touchdowns to
junior Jay Thomas, as the Generals
rolled over Hampden-Sydney 39-12
on Oct. 13.

Sullivan ran 26 times for 187 yards,
adding 53 yards receiving on five
catches. Thomas finished with six
catches for 135 yards, and junior Brian
Meehan had 10 tackles, a sack and a
forced fumble.

Senior Brad Wiginton set a school
record for ﬁeld goals in a game with
four, also tying the season record
with 10.

“It takes a lot of pressure off the
offense,” Miriello said of Wiginton’s
placekicking. “You know that when
you get inside the 30-yard line,
you’re going to come away with
points almost every time. He’s a tre-
mendous kicker.”

Touchdown passes of 22 and 6
yards from Dean to Thomas gave
W&L a 14-0 lead less than two min-
utes into the second quarter.

The Tigers sliced the W&L lead to
14-12, but Wiginton’s 43-yard ﬁeld
goal in the half’s ﬁnal minute gave
W&L a bit of breathing room.

The Generals’ offense then ex-
ploded in the third quarter, as Dean
hit Thomas on a 74-yard TD toss for a
23-12 lead. After two Wiginton ﬁeld
goals, Watson’/s‘ 10-yard run gave
W&L an insurmountable 36-12 ad-
vantage.

\Viginton’s fourth attempt, this from
31 yards, came in the fourth quarter
and provided the game’s final margin.

Next week on the sports
pages of the Phi:

-Coverage of the women’s soccer team in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament

-Previews of the W&L swimming season

-Continued coverage of W&L fall sports

63 FUN CARDS - APRIL CDRNELL CLOTHING - PURSES

CANDLES f GIFTS GALORE * FRAMES

 

1:21 W. Nelson Sireet
LEHTHQIOH. VA 2-4:450

5-‘I'D.-='|-I5-4.51302

uwn-k_3hcipg:iumpldnse:e~ds.com

£3 ECLECTIC JEWELRT -

MJTTENS * STATIONERY * HOME ACCENTS

Q63 Sl‘P'H - Se.-IVCIS * SDILEWSOD WOOTB I .«'~.'5l‘rf'9 H05 SGN|:l ElI'lEJlNfl QT

 

PACE 8  MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2001
‘V
0 0
V0116 yb all Cl1I1ChC S 1'6 gular- S6218 O11  lL1tlC '
, " ‘ , ‘ _ BY JEREMY FRANKLIN “We got a little bit of a contribution from every- 4;,
’ I ' . I 1 SPORTS EDITOR one, but I don’t think across the board anyone played
~— their best,” he added. “But that’s the sign of a good
 The Washington and Lee volleyball team secured first team, when you do that and still beat a good oppo- y

  

place in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Touma-

_ ment with a 30-22, 30-18, 29-3 1, 30-22 win over Lynchburg
Sunday at the Warner Center.

Lindsay Ruckert, one of five seniors recognized prior

to the match, ﬁnished with 19 kills, three aces and nine

nent.”
The win was W&L’s ninth in a row, as the Generals

haven’t lost since falling to Catholic in the Emory Touma- 5

ment on Sept. 29. That streak encompasses six ODAC
wins, and Lynchburg was just the second team to take a

digs for W&L (22-3, 9-0 ODAC). Freshman Michelle game from W&L in conference play. A
Chastain tallied 12 kills and 17 digs, and senior Leslie The Generals won a pair of ODAC matches on the road
Fischbeck had 12 kills and four blocks. prior to Reading Days, dropping Sweet Briar 30-14, 30-14, 30- *

“It was great,” Ruckert said of the win. “We struggled
a little bit and then we came back. We picked it up a little
bit, and we pulled through.”

In addition to Ruckert and Fischbeck, Lee Charbonnet,
Lizzy Swann and Sara Heusel played their last regular-
season home match against Lynchburg.

After playing from behind in the first two games, the
Hornets (19—7, 5-3) jumped out to a 12-7 lead in the third
frame. W&L eventually took a 29-27 lead, but Lynchburg
reeled off four straight points to force a fourth game.

The Generals returned to previous form to win the
match. Although the Hornets erased most of a 16-9 W&L
advantage, the Generals would eventually pull away.

26 on Oct 8 and Roanoke 30-26, 23-30, 30-25, 30-25 on Oct. 1 l. '
W&L proceeded to win the Goucher Tournament on Oct. R.
13 with victories over Seton Hill, Marymount and Lynchburg.

The Generals returned to ODAC play Thursday with a 9

30-25, 30-23, 30-28 road win over Bridgewater. Chastain

had nine kills and seven digs, and classmate Emily Wo1f- 9

ing tallied eight kills and 15 digs.

Snyder isn’t worried about whether his team keeps its )1.

winning streak going when they participate in the Maryville
Tournament Friday and Saturday.

“Whether we win or lose, those aren’t conference 7

matches,” he said. “I want to go down there and play well.

If we keep the win streak alive, that’s ﬁne; if not, we’ll be I‘
comfortable starting another one.”

Regardless of what happens in Maryville or Tuesday
at Hollins, the Generals will host the ODAC Tournament '3
on Nov. 2-3.

“Lynchburg’s a good team,” W&L coach Bryan Snyder said
“’Ihey’ve got some good players and a good coach, so to beat
them is a nice win. I wouldn’t say that any of our players played
their best, but we made plays when we needed to make plays.

Generals conclude inaugural varsity year

FILEPROIO
W&L has clinched the top seed in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and will host the tournament on Nov. 2-3.

SETTING UP: (From left) Senior Leslie Fischbeck and freshmen
Jennifer Lux and Michelle Chastain prepare to return a serve.

4

Women’s tennis slices .

MARY GLY/ T/Jr Ring-tzwz P/xi
LAST WIN or THE SEASON: Senior Carolyn Pressly looks to move the ball upﬁeld in

W&L’s 1-0 win over St. Mary’s on Oct. 13. The victory was W&L’s third and ﬁnal of
2001, their first year at varsity level.

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld
hockey team wrapped up their sea-
son with a win over Reading Days
and two hard losses.

Coach Wendy Orrison felt that
the season-ending 2-1 loss to Chris-
topher Newport on Sunday was a
good game that finished a good sea-
son.

“It has been frustrating, losing
so many close games, but I’ve had
a great group of girls and they’ve
never quit,” she said. “We have to
be patient as a ﬁrst—year team.”

The Generals hosted St. Mary’s
of Maryland Oct. 13 at the W&L Turf
Field. In a hard-fought defensive
game, the Generals finished with a
win, 1-0.

Wednesday night saw the Gen-
erals hosting Eastern Mennonite in
a close ﬁrst-half game. But three
Royal goals in the second half went
unanswered by W&L.

Sunday brought an incredibly ex-
citing game to the turf. The game be-
gan with a ceremony to honor the se-

niors.

Goalie Deidra MacLeod, links
Allison MacQueen, Courtenay
Fisher and Carolyn Pressly and
defensemen Amie Lucier and Lauren
Kearney were recognized as playing
their ﬁnal game in Generals’ uni-
forms.

The Lady Captains of Christopher
Newport jumped ahead with a pair
of first half goals, scoring with 18:10
and 5 :32 remaining in the half.

The Generals came out for the
second half undaunted, and after 20
minutes of tight play, sophomore
Jessica Lake scored with 14:27 re-
maining in the game.

The match was electrifying for the
remainder of the half. Playing with ﬁre
in their hearts, the Generals pushed
Christopher Newport back on defense
for the rest of the game, but N ewpo1t’s
defense proved unyielding.

In spite of no less than ﬁve scor-
ing opportunities in the last seven
minutes, the Lady Captains’ defense
stood ﬁrm.

W&L finished at 3-10, including
a 2-7 mark in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference.

SCOREBOARD

OCTOBER 13 FOOTBALL YARDLINE

W&L 39, Hampden-Sydney 12

W&L 7 10 19 3 — 39
Hampden-Sydney 0 12 0 0 — 12
First Quarter

W&L — Thomas 22 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 8212
Second Quarter
W&L — Thomas 6 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 13:21
HSC — Meeks 86 punt return (conversion failed), 9:30
HSC -— Singh 33 pass from Russell (conversion failed), 3:00
W&L — Wiginton FG 43, 0:35
Third Quarter
W&L — Thomas 74 pass from Dean (conversion failed), 13:24
W&L — Wiginton FG 27, 7:56
W&L — Wiginton FG 41, 4:12
W&L — Watson 10 run (Wiginton kick), 0:21
Fourth Quarter
W&L — Wiginton FG 31, 5:41

A — 3,013

W&L HSC
First downs 18 18
Rushes—yards 38-225 31-76
Passing yards 236 193
Return yards 81 285
Comp-att-int 16-'31-1 23-48-4
Sacked-yards lost 1-14 4-34
Punts-avg 7-37.0 4-34.8
Fumbles-lost 0-0 3-2
Penalties-yards 3-35 6-104
Time of possession 29:48 30:12

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSHlNG—W&L: Sullivan 26-187, Watson 8-44, Archie 1-2,
Caramore 1-0, Dean 2-(-8). HSC: Clemmons 12-54, Russell 8-14,
Gould 4-13, Singh 1-10, Wilkinson 1-(-2), Ruiz 1-(-2), Ford 4-(-11).

PASSING-—W&L: Dean 16-31-1 236. HSC: Russell 20-38-3 165,
Ford 3-9-0 28, Wilkinson 0-1-1 0.

RECE|V|NG—W&L: Thomas 6-135, Sullivan 5-53, Watson 4-37,
Overstreet 1-11. HSC: Singh 9-93, Herndon 6-54, Murchison 4-36,
Hamlett 4-10.

MISSED FIELD GOALS—none.

I W&L at Bridgewater, 4 p.m.

W&L SCHEDULES OCTOBER 23-29

Tuesday, Oct. 23

Women’s Soccer

ODAC First Round
Randolph-Macon at W&L, 2:30 p.m.
Volleyball

W&L vs. Huntington, 8 pm.
Saturday, Oct. 27

Cross Country

ODAC Championships

W&L at Hollins, 6:30 p.m. 5‘”"“"“"9
Transylvania at W&L, 11 a.m.
Thursday, Oct. 25 Football

Men’s Soccer Bridgewater at W&L, 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

ODAC First Round
Women’s Soccer

ODAC Finals

Volleyball

W&L at Maryville Tournament

Friday, Oct. 26

Women’s Soccer

ODAC Semtinals

Volleyball (Maryville Tourn.)
W&L vs. W. Va. Tech, 4 p.m.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

Conference Overall
Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
Bridgewater 3 0 125 70 6 0 252 117
Washington and Lee 3 1 108 58 4 3 149 158
Emory and Henry 2 1 72 56 4 3 149 121
Randolph-Macon 2 1 60 68 4 3 153 170
Hampden-Sydney 2 3 160 153 3 4 194 189
Catholic 0 3 57 69 2 5 134 145
Guiltord 0 3 27 135 1 6 84 222

October 13 Results

W&L 39, Hampden-Sydney 12

Bridgewater 49, Guiltord 14

Emory and Henry 24,
Randolph-Macon 8

Catholic 31, Frostburg State 26

Week of October 27
Bridgewater at W&L

Emory and Henry at Catholic
Randolph-Macon at Guiliord
Hampden-Sydney at Davidson

Week of November 3

W&L at Emory and Henry
Randolph-Macon at Bridgewater
Guiltord at Catholic

Maryville at Hampden-Sydney

October 20 Results

W&L 28, Sewanee 24

Bridgewater 28, Emory and Henry 14
Hampden-Sydney 27, Catholic 25
Davidson 27, Randolph-Macon 24

OLD DOMINION ATHLETIC CONFERENCE STANDINGS

VOLLEYBALL WoMEN’s SOCCER MEN’s SOCCER
Conference Overall Conference Overall Conference Overall
Team w L w L Team W L T W L T Team w L T w L T
Washington and Lee9 0 22 3 I-Y”ChbU"9 11 0 0 14 1 2 Washington and Leej 1 0 9 3 1
Em0|'y and Henry 7 l  7 Roanqke 9 2 0  3 O Roanoke 6 -1 0  2 0
Bridgewater 5 3 13 10 Washington and Lee9 2 0 10 4 0 _ 1 1
. Eastern Mennonite 8 3 O 14 3 O V”9'"l3 W9S'9Y8n 5 2 1 10 5 1

Eastern Mennonite 5 3 11 12 _ _ _
Lynchburg 5 3 19 7 Virginia Wesleyan 8 3 0 13 6 0 Lynchburg 5 3 0 8 7 0
Roanoke 5 3 11 8 Randolph-Macon 6 5 0 6 101 Hampden-Sydney 5 3 0 11 5 2

_ Bridgewater 4 6 1 6 6 2 Emory and Henry 3 4 1 7 7 2
Randolph Macon 5 4 12 11 Gumord 4 7 0 8 10 1
Honing 2 6 5 14 Emory and Henry 2 8 1 5 11 1 Eastern Mennonite 3 5 0 8 9 0
Sweet Briar 2 6 10 10 RMWC 2 3 1 6 8 1 Guiltord 3 6 0 7 10 01
Guilford 2 3 4 25 Homns 1 9 1 2 10 1 Randolph-Macon 2 6 0 8 9 O
RMWC 0 10 5 18 SweetBriar O 11 0 2 15 0 Bridgewater 0 8 0 4 10 0
Editor's note: Overall records may not reflect games played this weekend.

1

Interested
in covering
sports for

the Phi’?

Contact Jeremy
Franklin at x4060 or
tranklinj@wlu.edu.

through all competition:

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Coaches and sports experts can
often be heard saying that a team is
only as good as its weakest link. Judg-
ing from the success of the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s tennis team, one
would be hard—pressed to find any
weak links.

The Generals displayed their
consistency and overwhelming
dominance in three matches held on
Oct. 11 and 13, defeating Haverford,
Swarthmore and Franklin and
Marshall, all in complete 9-0
sweeps.

“It was a good experience,” se-
nior Melissa Hatley said of the two
trips. “I think, especially in the fall,
we get a good in-
dication of how
strong we are.
Even without our
No. 1 player, we
still played very
strongly.”

The Generals
began their final
stretch of fall
matches by traveling to Franklin and
Marshall on Oct 11. W&L swept all
nine matches, being led by freshman
Lindsay Hagerman and the doubles
team of Hatley and junior Erika
Proko.

Hagerman won her No. 1 singles
match (>0, 6- 1, while Proko and Hatley
won at No. 1 doubles 8-2.

In singles competition, other winners
for W&L included Hatley at No. 2,
sophomore Liz Law at the third seed,
senior Sallie Gray Strang at No. 4, fresh-
man Marie Trimble at No. 5 and fresh-
man Elizabeth McCracken at the sixth
seed.

“It’s great to see the freshmen play
very well and gain experience,” Hatley
said of the three freshmen that won
their matches. “They’ll be a real asset
to the team.”

The No. 2 doubles team, consist-

HATLEY

IJEXIN GTOE‘-‘

.’-.3't’t'.I-a'J'.'I'."a'l»f_.;;.'- £§I'i'.v.I-3 14".’); pt-

FRESH EACH MORNING

 

ing of Hagerman and Strang, also
racked up a victory, 8-0, while Law and
sophomore Ellie Simpson rounded
out the sweep with an 8-3 victory at
No. 3 doubles. 1

The Generals followed up this vic-
tory by going to Swarthmore for a
dual meet on Oct. 13, matching up‘?
against Swarthmore and Haverford
in the final meet of the fall seasonj
The results were practically the same
for W&L. 1

All singles players secured victo-
ries, most in two easy sets, whileq
Hagerman needed three sets to
outlast her Swarthmore opponent,-jg
Anjani Reddy, 6-7 (4), 6-2, 6-4.

The only difference was that
Law teamed up with Trimble instead’
of Simpson for those two matches,
and the duo won by scores of 8-0
and 8-2. /

Even though the team ended of-
ficial competition with these
meets, Proko and Hatley competed
in the 2001 Rolex Nationals at
Plano, Texas from Thursday‘
through Saturday.

The two combined in doubles
competition to garner a third-place‘
ﬁnish. After an 8-1 victory over Kat
Capozio and Rathi Mani of Washing)
ton University on Thursday, the duo
lost to Beloit’s doubles team of Julie
Lebedeva and Tanya Kopylova, 8-3;‘,
in the semiﬁnals.

In the third-place match, Proko,-1
and Hatley earned a hard-fought
victory over Emily Warburg and
Margaret Moscato of Emory, 9-87
(7-1).

In individual singles competition»;
Proko lost her ﬁrst two matches, but
came back and defeated Betsy Morkj
of Pomona-Pitzer 6-1, 2-6, 6-1 for a
seventh-place finish.

“I’m looking for some time off, but -1
the tournament was a great experi-
ence,” Hatley said. “It’s a good feel-
ing, heading into the winter, to know
that we can hang with the top teams

in the doubles circuit.” 5 _

ESPRESSO * CAPFUOCINO ' FRESH ROASTED OOFFEES 0 FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHlNG’l'ON S'l'RE.I!'.T ' LEXINGTON ' 464-G586

 

