 

1
*.

A ?

J:

 

 
 

P "57 3.755

 

   

  

 

 

 

(Q 55 2..
V‘  \f1AF'¥’lL 4
“O '15 WASi-ilt‘ﬁ
T“‘7 R‘'”‘' 3‘ “ ll“ .. ‘I N -'12’?  1 IX-Y‘---‘:’1'.\§ ’izi
INSIDE ,  . ’ . ..  A. A  . - Iixliol . ’
W&L’: I’.  ® P.  3? .,
r>F~:t<F‘."r:'r' l.l\Il\r!".I~’.ml’l"i’  I K I " J‘ 2 OPINIONS 3
l’Rl'l'.‘9§i)liI'\"i”. 3 SP(_)RTS 7
NEW COAC}~I (I) PAGE 7 l ’ .. _
l\Ir:.~;’s l..‘>.«.l:rt<>-_~.~».r-: .=-rm:  1 j 2fjr'/ /‘ 2 _
(...t=.r<i.\‘o TO Rl",1’~’l,.-Vii‘.  b(:C’ll.lill3(~7l’AR-I-J’ 8
$q~,»,,(,,\;-gq-\,  I Tl--IFZPPII R1-’-.TL.-"R.\.lS.l.»‘x.\7. 14
l”Oi.i.'T\lEf..lV\i, .\o. Kl.’ I MM  l.i;:~;:;\;t:'i‘=.w:\‘, V11-‘.(;i?_\j1:‘«_ 2445i} ltlll-‘D9-*1’. D1 - R3, 209?

Shortened pledgeship proposal eets oppositon

Bv MIKE AGNELLO
.lssor.i.-\TF. EDITOR

A proposal to shorten pledgeship from eight weeks to
six appears headed for failure at today’s faculty meeting.

In preparation for the faculiy’s vote today, the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee released a report on the current
pledgeship standards. Composed of students and fac-
ulty, the SAC regularly reviews student affairs.

According to the report. the current eight-week
pledgeship “is reasonable and should be continued.” T he
report also advocated keeping the present 2.0 minimum GPA to
participate in formal rush, as opposed to raising it to 2.25 or 2.5.

The SAC vote \vas unanimous, with all 12 members
Voting to recommend keeping the current pledgeship stan-
dards. The vote is significant, because the full faculty
usually adopts the SAC's proposals.

In a prior vote, the SAC had voted 1 1-1 to keep the
Current system. Student Judicial Council President Shane
Saunders, a junior,,was the lone dissenting vote. Saunders
reportedly voted against the current standards because
he favored reinstating the ten—week pledgeship. Saunders
could not be reached for comment.

' Since the 1998-99 school year, freshmen must have a
minimum 2.0 GPA to participate in formal rush, and pledgeshi p
has lasted eight weeks. Prior to 1998. pledgeship was 1()
weeks long. Pledgeship was moved the 1996-97 school year
from the fall term to winter term.

At their November 5 meeting, faculty members asked the
SAC to reconsider the length of pledgeship and its academic
requirements. Many were concerned that Greek pledges, par-
ticularly males, suffered unduly from the strain of pledgeship.

“There was some concern that freshman males are

Global holidays

exhausted and not responsive in class,” Dean of Students
David.Howison said.

These faculty asked the SAC to evaluate the pos-
sible benefits of shortening pledgeship to six weeks and
raising the minimum GPA to 2.5.

According to the SAC report, the average fraternity
p1edge’s GPA declines . 176 during winter term, while the aver-
age sorority pledge’s falls only .036. These findings were based
on data from the last three years. During winter term 1998, the
last year of a 10-week pledgeship, fraternity pledge GPAS de-
clined an average of .22. The following year, when this year’s
seniors were freshmen and the ﬁrst year of an eight-week
pledgeship, pledge grades fell only .12. However, in winter
2000, fratemity pledge GPAs fell .23, which was worse than
during the last year of the ten—week pledgeship. This drop
caused many faculty to question the pledgeship program.

History Professor Ted DeLaney made the motion
at the November 5 faculty meeting to shorten
pledgeship to six weeks. DeLaney declined to be in-
terviewed for this article.

Howison said that while he and every other member of '

the SAC voted to recommend keeping the current pledgeship
requirements, the drop in GPA is still cause for concern.

“A second—term freshman’s GPA should not decline,”
Howison said.

The report also explored the beneﬁts of raising the
minimum GPA to 2.25 or 2.5. If 2.25 had been the minimum
GPA last year, 18 additional students - nine men and nine
women - would have been ineligible to participate in
pledgeship. If it had been a 2.5 minimum, this number would
have been 56 students - 32 men and 24 women. ‘

Senior Justin Rubenstein, rush chair for Sigma Nu
and last year’s pledge educator, said requiring a higher

GPA 1PoIiiitAsT

18 (9 men.
A 56 (32‘men,,2

GPA or a shorter pledgeship would be disastrous for
the Greek system.

“It’s already difﬁcult to instill fraternity values in eight
weeks  a shorter (pledgeship) would substantially weaken
Greek life by making houses for divisive intemally,” he said.

Rubenstein added that pledgeship often beneﬁts stu-
dents close to the minimum 2.0 GPA.

“Pledgeship helps out those guys by structuring
their time,” he said.

The SAC report suggests Rubenstein is right. Accord-
ing to the report, most of the recorded drop in fratemity-
pledge GPAs occurs for students who earned between a 3.5
and 4.0 fall term. Of the 22 fraternity pledges in the 20-249

SEE PLEDGE, PAGE 2

University Computing cracks down on file sharing

SAIL in Cunty

   

I MEG Fr.itRARA/ T/J!’ Ring-tum P/21'
FELIZ NAVIDAD. Peter Djalaliev helps children craft holiday ornaments Olast Saturday.

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI
EDlTOR—L\—CHlEF

A University Computing plan to increase
Internet speed by limiting ﬁle sharing inadvertantly
resulted in greatly increased download times for
students attempting to get sound and movie files.

File sharing is the transfer of computer files
between two computers over the Internet.

“It all began when we were seeij;g..if there were
enough resources to support the (Internet —acces—
sible) Campaign for the Rising Generation,” said
Systems Administrator Jeff Knudson.

‘ To see how computer resources were being
used, University Computing bought a
packetshaper, a commercially available hardware/
software program that moniters network usage.

“We thought that it would be complicated,” said
JohnWhite, Help Desk Manager. “After we saw the
figures, however, it turned out to be simple.”

Through using the packetshaper, University Com-

FLC collects

puting discovered that 93% of incoming traﬂic was
coming from KaZaa, a popular ﬁle sharing program.

These resources were being used by people
outside of the W&L network who were attracted
by the speed of the Internet connection.

“File sharing programs look for the fastest
connection, which is usually W&L’s,” said senior
Dan Comer, who works for University Computing.

“It’s like we’re driving the red Corvette,”

' ‘White said.

W&L connects to the Internet with a T3 line,
equivalent to 45 megabytes per second.

“The average school our size has a T1 con-
nection,” Knudson said. A T1 connection is
equivalent to 1.5 megabytes, thirty times
slower.

To prevent outsiders from using so much of
limited resources, University Computing limited
file sharing to ten percent of the incoming band-
width—the amount of data that can be transferred
in a given time period. ‘

“We really hoped students wouldn’t notice
(the change),” White said.

“Inbound traffic was 12 to 15 percent of the
pipe,” Knudson said. “As long as students were
downloading, (a 10 percent restriction) should
only have decreased speed by 80 percent.”

The problem proved to be with incoming up-
loads, not outgoing downloads.

Information sent over the Internet is sent in
discreet chunks called packets, which must be ac-
knowledged by the other computer. The ten percent
cap slows the acknowdgements, and thus the down-
loads.

Despite unforeseen drawbacks, University
Computing stands by its decision.

“Ten percent of a pipe is still three times a
T1,” White said. “It’s not like we cut it off.”

To improve students’ ability to download,
Comer designed a webpage available at http://
computing.wlu.edu/howto/filesharing/
h0w_to_help.html.

Mock Con ‘o4 kicks oft

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

Approximately 60 children from
the Lexington community came to
Washington and Lee last Saturday to
learn about Christmas celebrations
around the world. W&L student vol-
unteers researched different coun-
tries’ celebrations and staffed stations
in the Science Center to promote in-
ternational awareness.

The activity is one of many that
Students Association for Interna-
tional Learning (SAIL) has on its
agenda this year.

While W&Lhas never been
known for its diversity, recruitment
efforts over the past few years have
yielded increasingly large interna-
tional student populations. This year,
according to Admissions Ofﬁce sta-
tistics, almost. seven percent of the
freshman class comes from outside
the United States, an increase from
ﬁve percent two years ago. Accord-
ingly, new interest groups on campus
have sprung up; one of the most no-
table is SAIL.

Chaired by junior Agnes Flak,
from Poland, the group serves as an
umbrella organization for five differ-
ent committees. They are the Interna-
tional Development and Relief Group
(IDRG), Study Abroad Forum, Model
United Nations, International Stu-
dents Alliance and the Social Com-
mittee, which replaced the Interna-
tional Club and organizes campus
events promoting international learn-
ing and knowledge.

Other than Saturday’s aware-
ness activity, recent events include
International Education Week,
which was the week before Thanks-
giving. Study Abroad Forum had a
slideshow in the GHQ promoting
international learning. The IDRG

 

 

gave a presentation to the Lexing-
ton Rotary Club.

The ISA also set up candles
around the Co-op, served tea and
played Indian music in honor of the
Indian holiday of Diwali (literally, the
festival of lights). '

ISA treasurer and junior Aditya
Chandraghatgi, from India, said the
holiday celebrates religious toleration.

“Traditionally, (the holiday) is
not exclusive to one religious group,”
he said. “but rather, the whole coun-
try takes part.”

The International Holiday Celebra-
tion, which is the name for this year’s
Christmas Dinner, will be served in the
Dining Hall on Wednesday, Dec. 5.

Director of Dining Services Jerry
Darrell said his staff has been work-
ing with rnembers of SAIL to obtain
recipes from international students’
home countries and serve them at the
dinner. Highlights include Mexican
mixed fruit salad, Japanese cucumber
salad, Kenyan coconut rice, Polish
mushroom pierogis. Irish beef and
Brazilian holiday turkey breast.

Other upcoming events include
a country of the month presentation,
with this month’s selection being Po-
land, and “Evening Abroad” in Feb-
ruary, which is a theatrical presenta-
tion put on by international students
displaying various cultural practices
in their home countries.

Despite its 53 16,000 budget ($2,200
from the Executive Committee and
$14,000 from the deans), Flak said SAH.
faces constraints in undertaking all that
it hopes to this year, so they hope to
hold a fundraiser. One idea under seri-
ous consideration is compiling and
selling a recipe book of dishes from all
over the world.

Students interested in any of
SAIL’s activities should Contact
Flakor look for campus notices.

 

cans for holidays

BY MEG HAsToN
STAFF WRITER

The Freshman Leadership
Council is sponsoring a canned
food drive to aid Rockbridge Area
Relief Agency, an organization that
serves the Rockbridge area.

The food drive began Friday,
Nov. 16, and will end Friday, Dec.
7. In order to meet their goal of 100
percent participation, the FLC has
offered a free pizza‘ dinner at
Salemos to the hall that can col-
lect the most cans.

“Even if (it) means that every-
one only gives one can, we want
 as many people as possible to
get involved,” said FLC represen-
tative Kyle Meehan. “(Students
who) are not able to donate canned
goods but would like to donate

money towards (their purchase
should) give  money to any FLC
representative.”

Representative Tran Kim sees
the food drive as an event that
helps not only the needy but also
the participants themselves.

“The canned food drive not
only feeds the stomachs of the
hungry but also the souls of those
giving and receiving,” Kim said.

On behalf of the freshman
class, the FLC has also adopted
two families for whom they will
spend $300 to buy items such as
clothing, toys and games. FLC
members and student volunteers
will wrap the gifts on Tuesday,
Dec. 4, in Evans Dining Hall.

To volunteer to help with this
project, contact Melanie Harris at
Harrism@wlu.edu.

2002-O3 Residence Life

Ri.sn)ENT AssrsTANTs D

RM CoUN ELORS

 

Vanessa Adams Kate Bidwell -loalllla Pelllll
Agnes Flak Amy Blevins Erica Reisbeck
Paul Ledford Mavja Brown Lauren Robbins
Mary Cam1MaZZa Kjmgulka Brandon Seale
Maitena Moure LCSSIB Calhoun Lydia T050
Joel Pepera Bryan Carmody Neth Walker
Karelle Samurda Andy Chapman l-aura Wilson
Emily Small Jennifer Fallon
samamha snabes Robert Floyd DC ALTERNATES
Jonathan Wonham Bill Gilsenan Zack Bedard
Richard Kilby Austin Calhoun
RA ALTERNATE-5 KJ Linthicum Andrew Fotinos
Dustin  COI'y Llttlﬁ  GOIUDICWSKR
A Amina Elgouacem Jeff Merlggl Kelly Kellogg
Kimberly Sampson Rusty Meyer Andy Lunsford
Peter Moore KC Wilson

Farhan Mustafa

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s nationally
recognized Mock Convention is be-
ginning to prepare for the upconring
2004 Democratic Mock Convention.

The Mock Convention serves as
a weathervane for national politics.
Political observers pay attention to
the results of the convention because
it is known for accurately selecting
who will be the challenger to the in-
cumbent party.

Every four years, a Mock Con-
vention for the party out of power is
held to simulate the actual outcome.
The convention has also been tele-
vised nationally on C-SPAN.

“Unlike other schools, which seek
merely to reproduce the format of the

real party conventions, our Mock Con- _
vention is in fact an accurate, predic-

tive exercise that comes as a precursor
to the state primaries,” said senior
Heather Howard, who is helping kick
off the convention preparation.

The Mock Convention takes
three years to prepare for. This
winter’s kickoff, scheduled after
Christmas break, will be the ﬁrst step
to preparing for the 2004 convention.

The kickoff will involve selecting
the three Tri-Chairs: Political Chair-
man, Personnel Chairman and General
Chairman. The Political Chairman
oversees the political nuts and bolts
of the operation, the Personnel Chair-
man is responsible for bringing people
into the convention and the General
Chairman oversees the operation of
the entire Convention.

“(Our) ultimate goal is to con-
tinue our ‘winning streak’ of accurate
predictions for the out-of—office
party’s presidential nominee,” Howard
continued.

Senior Christian Vanderbrouk,
who was a Regional Coordinator in
the 2000 Mock Convention, agrees
with Howard.

“We pride ourselves on being
accurate,” Vanderbrouk said. “It’s not
a popularity contest.”

Speakers at the convention in-
clude both students and American
political figures. Last year’s speak-
ers included Bob Dole, candidate
for Governor of New Jersey Bret
Schundler, Rep. J. C. Watts of Okla-
homa, and William Bennett from
Empower America. In 1988, former
President Bill Clinton made an ap-
pearance as well

Students play an important role
with Mock Convention. The event is
ofﬁcially student-run.

“Since students learn how to
conduct the research and planning
needed for a successful convention,”
Howard said, “this aspect is extremely
important for the academic value of
he Convention.

Currently, however, Howard and
Vanderbrouk are searching for the
students who will lead the exercise in
2004. Vanderbrouk said he had high
hopes for success. He is hoping the
students who get involved will be able
to make it a great experience.

“I think it’s more what they can
bring to the table,” he said.

Ultimately, the hopes are for ev-
ery student to serve the Convention
in some aspect. That requires highly
motivated students.

“I’m expecting enthusiasm on
the part of W & L students,”
Vanderbrouk said.

Both Howard and Vanderbrouk
are looking forward to hearing from
any student interested in participat-
ing. They encouraged interested stu-
dents to contact them.

   

 

 

 

    

 

 

  

 

   

 Rizxt:--viii N
PAGE 2  ZS MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001 E
Today 8.p.m.—Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting. PLEDGE from page 1 Datz said most houses attempted ‘ 1
8 p.m -«Java at the GHQ. Southern Com- Fairfax Lounge. DIVINTIY to abide by the program, while “about
fort. GHQ. ‘ Thursday, Dec.6 pledge GPAs occurs for students ﬁve or six” followed it closely. A
'I1iesday,Dec.4 8 p.m.—Candlelight Service. Featuring the who earned between a 3.5 and 4.0 Panhellenic Council President
. 1 1:30 a.m.—Women’s Studies Colloquium. University Chamber Singers. Lee Chapel. fall term. Of the 22 fraternity pledges Katie Cedarholm, a Senior. Said raising

“Spain in the 1940’s: Women’s Literature and Friday,Dec.7 in the 2.0—2.49 range last year, 18 im— the minimum GPA and shortening '
Popular Culture,” Ellen U n d e r g d a u a r e proved their grades, while only four pledgeship would affect sororities as
Mayock, assistant pro- classes end, declined. In contrast, 22 of 32 well as fraternities. ‘ l
fessor of Romance lan- Noon——Environ- pledges with grades between 3.5 “Sororities already have GPA re- r ‘
guages, W&L. Room 1 14, mental Studies Lun- and 4.0 fall term saw a drop in their quirements from their national (orga-
University Center. (go cheon Series 2001-2002, winter term GPA. nizations), and (Changing the require- in 
through the Dining Hall “The Woods Creek Res- The report also gave credit to IFC ments that way) would make s0rori— 1
luncheon line and men— toration Project,” Bill Advisor Burr Datz’s new pledgeship ties more exclusive, when we’re try-

tion “Women’s Studies”) Blatter, city planner, Lex- program, instituted last year. The pro- ing to work toward a more inclusive

7 p.m.—“Music for ington, Va. Room 114, gram includes recommendations such community,” Cedarholm said. ‘7
the Holidays“ with the University Center. 5 as service projects and seminars on al- Rubenstein said that he feels 1
University Chorus, Uni— Saturday,Dec.8 O kere0aVetheRO0t11lr.<;Fi«:t<[ul;Eéé/egg//rag: cohol, sexual assault and leadership. strongly about the issue but that he ‘
versity Wind Ensemble, University String En— 2 p.m.—Undergraduate exams begin. an h in S amt V 7 W1] 1 BLTP ‘ The program was not mandatory, and sees both sides. -1
semble and University Jazz Ensemble. Keller sun«lay,I>ec.9 ° d (§j’f‘§l V‘ ,, faspg, dnJ°:1‘”“e“\if‘ ﬂj‘ “f H ‘W Datz said this was intentional. “Improving freshman aims is the
Theatre, Lenfest Center. Free conceit, public in- Hanukkah begins. :1In,h h C:1::in t_ de 6? ﬂy me 01 hm uc toﬂum “Compulsion will not get us a goal of everybody, but there’s differ- -o
vited. Friday, Dec. 14 froegﬁ got k f 6:: _Omé€1,Se,r,el*g;1:et:O:S,(?nerneSternS Change in attitude, and that’s what ent ideas how to get there,” he said.
Wednesday, Dec. 5 5 p.m.—Undergraduate exams end. m e fee or “me me an I ' we need,” Datz said. “Everybody’s well-intentioned.” '
8:30 a.m.-—Customer Appreciation Sale. 7:30 p.m.—Holiday Dinner/Dance for fac- _ O t t T
University Bookstore. ulty, administration and staff. Evans Dining Hall. adVeear10nal arenaeeleglsrs exeawnren teennldues
through their certification program. to
The public is invited to attend the organizational meeting on
. Dec. 1 1, 2001 at 7 PM at the Rockbridge County Historical Society at
H 0 p  H  I d  101 East Washington Street. There will be a slide show illustrating A
. some local archaeological work. Contact James Hepner with ques-
, tions at 463-8574 or 348-1464. Or get information online at http.'// n
' www.arch ocva. rg/.
Christmas trees on sale ’ "
 O    The physical plant is selling Frasier Firs ranging in height ' T
y from 6 to 8 ft. for $30.00 each. The tree lot will open at the physical   _ t u
plant office near Woods Creek on Monday, December 3rd at 1:00 The Famny Ednear1°113lR1gnrS andnr1Vaey Aer (3150 known as ~
p_tn_ and will be open eaeh day from 3 nun to 4 n_m_ Monday the Buckley Amendment) protects the privacy and use of your edu-
through Friday. Trees will be for sale until December 19th as long eddenin ree°rd- The reeenny enacted USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
as the Su ply lasts. slightly changed the circumstances under which federal law en- *
u I P 1
You may also go to Skylark Farm to cut your own tree It wih foreement officials can obtain records without permission or prior
open for sales Monday through Friday 8300 u_m_ to 4:00 n_m_ and notification, as well as the records kept of such disclosures. In the ?
from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m on Saturday and Sunday. Please call 377- Past» the registrar has released this lnrerrnanen erny Wren 3 e0P)’ or
c I » 2747 before you go tree hunting written authorization. Please check the University’s policy at http:/ *
/www.wlu.edu/registrar/ferpa.htm, speciﬁcally the sections on Dis-
- losure of Education Records and Record of Disclosures.
CNBC to feature C-School investors °  . .
-— . y of the Unverszty Registrar n
Members of the Williams investment Society will share their
‘ favorite stock market picks with a national television audience on ' '
* _ the CNBC program Power LLHZC/7 Tuesday, Dec. 4.  p   _ ~ﬁ
TWO l_OCOllOnS TO Serve   During the live broadcast, which is expected to begin _ Ed Crannv tne Henry  FOX Jr- Prefesser Or Engllshs has re"
airing between 1:30-1:45 p.ni. on Tuesday, host Bill Griffeth eerved e_ yearlong fenewsnrp frernrne Nanenal endowment for the e
_ will ask the students to elaborate on their recommendations. Hnrnannlee Tnese nrgnly eernpennve fenewenrpe Prevlde °Pp°r'
22 N. MQIH Slfeel Two professional portfolio managers will follow with their tunities for individuals to pursue advanced work in the humanities. Au
' L . 1 reactions. Craun will use his fellowship during the 2002-03 academic year
exlng On CNBC is named on Cable Channel 12_ to complete his book, Fraternal Correction: The Ethics of Social 1'
464_ Criticism in Medieval English.He will spend part of the year finish-
- - - ing up research in English university libraries, the British Library
Historical diggers create local roots ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,, 4!
 walker  A local chapter of the Archaeological Society of Virginia The project is astudy of the ethical debates within clerical and I
_ (ASV) will be forming in December. The ASV has over reformist literature over how to practice fraternal correction in late ’
l_.eXlng'l'On 800 members dedicated to promoting the study of u Medieval England, the often public and harsh criticism of social
 archaeology and anthropology, especially, but limited to, evils, especially those committed by civil and religious authorities.
the prehistoric and historic periods of Virginia. The ASV teaches --courtesy of W&L News Oﬂice
, N
4
7/78  l‘‘€SUm€ ‘
. 7 »
O C O
pub |CC1'l'|Ol‘l a for W|l'l'l'€l“ 
red on January, 4,   O . .
O
. . _. * +
Fraternities O y 0 I  ,
Sororities * . "'
>l<
Clubs ,
Student Groups
A
4
Earn $10()()-$2000 this The Home Depot now hiring
. ‘P *
Semester Wlth the easy for night crew positions!
- A
Campusfund-raiser.com fr _ , , _ ,
-t-nembtann , _ Thats right! The Home Depots night shiftallows you to u
auetge cgy three hour fundraising have your days...free! You II have the ﬂexibility to spend
Ema event Does not involve H  more time with your family, attend school, or just spend _
- your days relaxing outdoors.And you’ll also have access
- to at beneﬁts 8: o ortunities!
credit card 3" pl’ pt 1
' ' ' ' ‘tint "leer .l  ' .:‘i‘ is‘:
apphcatlons. Fundralslng Wt .11 .. 01 mi 5, ll r St 0 p p 0 it it i i i s n on
I
dates are filling quickly, so |deQS . Freight Team Associate,
5 Uav5/N39hl‘»,S-L%it #0 835, A , call today! Contact ~ Receivi n g Associates 4
Condo Lodging-Serious Nightlife W k 4 h h i f h -
_ ‘ 0 I‘ 0 II I‘ 5 ts , S ll C 3.5
 Campusfund 8pm-midnight or Sam-9am In
‘WW9':l°=°ml==r'<°'=°'ll¢°t°='~ raiser.com at (888) 923  o Work 5 to 8 hou r shifts, 5 ti
' -
‘es - - between the hours of 8pm- am
 .1'navei._ .
  . u"ri’i_”5”r"r’:'i“'r“é""i':i  3238, or visit or 4am- I Oam n
__Z'_-_?_°_‘_’_;_‘?§’_e_:EEi;.e__ - shifts ma va sit tl 1
WWW.SKITRAVEL.CDM  ii ( Y ry gh  * ‘
raiser.com . ' -,i
   9 Apply today at any area store!
' 1.
Once you have completed - 4
your application, ask to speak to a’ 4»
member
of our Management Team. V
' e We are an equal opportunity employer 8: drug-free workplace.
. I W U I e U Gl'(~‘dl’ ('.Zlt‘(!(’l'S built iH)l‘(tl T
W

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001

'TllEiil\;(..§--'llT=‘.ll}:>~;?
STAFF EDITORIAL
’Tis the season to give thanks

Too often our readers complain about not
knowing the human face that lies behind the
staff editorial mask. Of course, the Phi will not
abandon its important task of instructing the uni-
versity. To humor our readers, however, and in
the spirit of the season, several editors and staff
writers share the things they are thankful for.

Alison is thankful for the abundance of
news in Lexington.

Andrew is grateful for the ability to ob-
serve genius at close range. He credits mid-
night basketball and the Phi with rescuing him
from the mean streets of Lex and the typical
lawless freshman life.

Brett is thankful for the Bush presidency
and its inspired leadership in these troubled times.

Jeremy is thankful for the infield ﬂy rule
and, for North Carolina State’s victory over
Florida State University.

Kate is thankful for an upscale Co-op un-

, Afraid to stock Splenda sweetner and a.variety
" of hyperpotent, rnixable energy drinks.

Katie is thankful for her scepter, crown and
the dominion she exerts over picas and page
editors alike. She also gives a special shout-
out to “Da Flame,” the phattest playa in the
Icy Hot Stuntaz Krew. Stay real, Flame.

Kris is thankful for editors who extend sub-
mission deadlines beyond the bounds of de-
cency. And for Post-It notes.

Latrina is thankful for the large office
space, especially the desk that enshrines
Maurice, her favorite computer.

Matthew is thankful for the best Phi staff
in living history and a cool personal ofﬁce. In
no particular order.

Mary is thankful for the courage to take
pictures of new people.

Meg is thankful for the little things in life,
like her summer internship in Germany with
the State Department.

Mike is thankful for Thunder Country,
whose righteous beats get him through those
long Sunday nights and Monday mornings. He
wishes they would play George Harrison’s
music more often.

Paul is thankful for the business cave, which is
more completely furnished than that of most deans.

Merry Christmas, W&L, and don’t allow
the faculty to pass the six-week pledgeship
program.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

TEE ll.l.a.3(}~'l’l,iE\rIl PEI

PINIONS  

Next prez must rest tradition  

The most inﬂuential and long-
lasting change that will come during
our time at W&L won’t be in the form
of bricks, and mortar. No, the new Reid
Hall, the performance art facility and
the Elrod University Commons will all
be outdone by President Elrod’s suc-
cessor. Washington and Lee is look-
ing to move into the twenty-ﬁrst cen-
tury by raising our national reputa-
tion' and attracting top—notch students

- while remaining true to the traditions

that make this such a special place;
the next president will be terribly im-
portant to that future.

Three qualities in particular will
be essential if the next president is to
manage that balancing act success-
f11lly.

Respect for tradition. The Uni-
versity expects that forty percent of
the faculty will retire in the next seven
years. Sinceso many aspects of the
University can be changed by a simple
faculty vote, Spring Term and the
length of pledgeship have recently
been at issue, it is essential to have a
president who is going to lobby in
favor of the W&L’s valuable tradi-
tions.

In fact, many students and alumni
have expressed the view that tradi-
tions such as the independence of the
student body and the unique social
atmosphere have been under assault.
With so much new to soon come to
the school, holding on to the old will
become ever more difﬁcult.

In that regard, an alumnus may
be an ideal candidate for the position
because he will have enjoyed the ben-
eﬁts of our traditions ﬁrsthand and
will ﬁght to preserve them.

The committee must be espe-
cially careful in
choosing a president
because someone
taken from another in-
stitution may be apt
to mold W&L into his vision of a
school rather than respect the tradi-
tions that are W&L’s foundation.

Aﬂinity for the Greek system.
Washington and Lee is part of a rap-
idly shrinking group of universities
that has a ﬂourishing Greek system.
Moves by the faculty to restrain the
activities of fraternities and sororities
indicate that many of them are hostile
to the system. In such an atmosphere,

RIGHT or THE AISLE
__  KIIWAN  and thejoys of living

BREITT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

PI-Ioro coIJRTF.s\' If/'1I"li".I:'I£.l.I'7LFl/.\"l.vlI‘F/J1‘H-l.l))'RH(),\f:.\' lI.l.['STRAT/lO.\I BY KATIE H0\x/F.I ,1.
MYSTERY MAN: The University must carefully choose the next president.

the University needs a president who
is not just indifferent to or mildly sup-
portive of the system, but one who
will be committed to and vocally sup-
portive of preserving and strengthen-
ing the system. He will need to ensure
that fraternities and sororities become
more integrated with University life,
not further pushed to the fringe as a
particularly troublesome social aspect
of the school.

College is supposed to be a time
of formation and maturation and the
Greek system is an ideal way to teach
students how to be a
friend, the value of
shared responsibility

together. No single
aspect does more to produce the
unique W&L graduate than the Greek
system and the next president will
play a major role in either its stagna-
tion and elimination or its growth and
prosperity.

Conservative academic opin-
ions. It is undeniable that academia is
beholden to liberal ideas and there is
no respite in sight. The ivory tower is
run by proponents of Women’s Stud-

ies, Black Marxism, revisionist history,
and host of other nutty, senseless
pursuits. Once again, W&L is set
apart and above by our resistance to
such trends. The next president will
be called upon to prevent Washing-
ton and Lee from joining the band-
wagon until these academic fads pass.
One with conservative political and
academic opinions will be best suited
to protecting the University from this
claptrap.

A wildcard consideration is the
possibility of bringing star power to
Lexington. Other top-notch universi-
ties have installed famous political ap-
pointees as president and perhaps
W&L should consider bringing a ce-
lebrity to be our next leader. Ben Stein
was smitten with Washington and
Lee when he visited and has excellent
academic credentials. Perhaps a fa-
mous alumnus would be suited to lead
the school. Tom Wolfe and Senator
Warner immediately come to mind.

The Presidential Search Commit-
tee has a huge responsibility and the
ability to chart the schools future.
Let’s hope their choice exemplifies
these characteristics.

I’M ABOUT TO OPEN A CAN OF
“\X/Hoop Ass.”

——ANONYMOUS PHI EDITOR—IN-CHIEF
ABOUT TO TASTE AN ENERGY DRINK

THE  

Editor-in-chief MatthewB.McDer'rnott

Mike Agnello
Katie Howell
Alison Trinidad
Latrina Stokes
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latimer
Matthew A. Coursen
Kate Guy

Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell
Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

Paul Seifert
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry
Charlie Tonelli
Peter Djalaliev

Associate Editor
Layout Editor

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers
Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers

Circulation Director
Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week's edition. The

' Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion ofthe Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Letters to the Editor

Dorm Counselors respond

Dear Editor,

Once again, your wit, insight, common sense, and
dedication to providing accurate details have shone
through in an anonymous editorial criticizing the dorm
counselor’s table in the D-Hall. Our selfish desire to eat
our fourteen meals, in the company of upperclassmen
who can understand many of our own problems better
than most freshmen would never have been revealed to
us as inhumane.

How pleasing it is to now know that freshmen. DO
want us around for those extra hours, when we can share
with them our frustration with lnterrnediate Accounting,
Organic Chemistry, the MCAT, the LSAT, GREs, fellowship
applications, job interviews, etc. Instead of giving fresh-
men the chance to discuss their worries and concerns with
the people most likely to share those same concerns and
understand them (i.e. other freshmen), we need to intrude.

As you said anonymously, “[the] bonding that takes
place cannot be overrated.” You have rightly pointed out
that this bonding needs to be with us, not classmates
who will be here for them for the next four years. Alas, all
our other attempts to interact with freshmen are appar-
ently for naught. Oh, the thought of a disappointed look
from Laetitia Pate Evans causes us all to bow our heads in
shame over our trays of chicken tenders and various wrap
bar creations. Though you, who hide behind the authori-
tative mask of anonymity, knew her as well as us (i.e. not
at all), the use of her name to support your opinion is
undoubtedly justiﬁed by your wisdom and clout.

We humbly apologize to those freshmen we have failed,
including you, dear unnamed editorial authors of the Phi,
who were freshmen once, and, hence, neglected. And so,

freshmen, when you see us approaching your table, cease
your babbling about that cute upperclassman, the number
of beers you downed last night, or whatever it is you’re
hiding in your room unbeknownst to us, and allow us to sit
with you and express our upperclassmen trouble!

Sincerely,
The Dorm Counseling Staff 200]-02

DC staff desen/es to ignore freshmen

Dear Editor,

I was surprised to see such a piece (in the Nov.l2
issue) of foolishness by the paper’s staff regarding dorm
counselors and their D—Hall table. Aside from the fact that
the entire basis of your argument is a loud whine from
those who were never invited to sit at that table as fresh-
men, I find serious fault in your referring to the Dorm
Counselor meal plans as “gratis.”

Can you honestly say that spending one or both of your
upperclassman years living in a hall of freshmen isn’t payment
of any kind? Granted, it’s a personal decision to take on that
challenge, and an enjoyable year for the most part. But to
sacriﬁce having your own house, driveway, privacy, escape,
anything for your junior or senior year is no small thing.

So big deal if the dorm counselors want to sit together. Many
of them are friends, classmates, fraternity brothers and sorority
sisters—people they would normally eat with anyway.

Grant them 20 minutes of peace from only being a
door—knock away. And if you really want to cry about it,
go talk to them—it’s what they’re trained for...

Sincerely,
Nate Tencza ‘99

“For break to last for two

“A 1974 911 Turbo.”

—-J on Albanese ‘O4 . mon

79

“To leave Lexington.”
--Sahir Khanna, ‘O4

——Marysia Golubiewska, ‘04

“My car back.”
-—Diya Vohra, ‘O3

GOP’s economic plan

ruins bipartisanship
Democrats righfeousy retrse to pass bad bill

The bizarre scenes of Congressional Republicans
and Democrats shaking hands in agreement on Senate
steps since 9/ 11 are ﬂeeting fast. Several issues in
Washington have redrawn party lines in a big way. The
biggest issue right now: the economy.

President Bush used his weekly radio address last
week to ask that Congressional Democrats quickly pass
his economic stimulus bill that quickly was passed in
the Republican—controlled House. The bill is now in
limbo in the Democrat—controlled Senate.

CNN.com reports the President had this to say,
“There are two immediate priorities for America’s re-
covery. We must
bring quick help to
those who need it
most, and we must re-
store our economy’s
growth. It’s the holiday season. It’s a time to reach out
to Americans who are hurting,’to help them put food
on the table and to keep a roof over their heads.”

However, Democrats in the Senate have not passed
the bill because, as proposed, it does not do that. It
seems the President is playing politics with this bill
instead.

In the weekly Democratic radio address, Senator
Harry Reid of Nevada pointed out that the President’s
economic stimulus plan provides no real relief for work-
ers laid off since the economic slowdown that began in
March. The situation has only worsened since Sep-
tember 1 1th, and it would seem that the holiday season
is the appropriate time to provide Americans with re-
lief.

So why does the President’s economic plan not
offer any unemployment and healthcare beneﬁts for
those who have lost their jobs?

Last month the Washington Post reported that un-
employment in the District of Columbia was worst for
hard-working immigrants in service industries. Often
working more than one job to put their kids through
school in the hopes of a better life, these are the people
that have been laid off while the country’s hotels and
restaurants suffer bad business.

Instead, the President’s proposed economic plan
offers tax breaks primarily to big business, extending
unemployment beneﬁts for the individual by only thir-
teen weeks in states hardest hit by the attacks of 9/ 1 1.

With the country headed further into its current
deﬁcit for the year, such risky tax cuts will not spur
economic growth. The President argues the money can
beused to create more jobs. Cutting taxes for industry

LEFT or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘03

will not help create more consumer demand that is what

will create jobs.

Furthermore, the President wants to accelerate
the proposed tax cuts for next year. Just as his last
tax trick (remember that refund check?) did nothing
to aid the ﬂailing economy, this plans seems no
different.

Rightly so, Democrats also oppose this plan when
an additional $7.5 billion is needed for national defense
this year, further escalating Washington’s impending
deﬁcit. This past week the White House admitted that
a deﬁcit would in fact be a reality this year. It is quite
clear that at this time President Bush’s $1.35 trillion tax
cut is to blame. Hindsight is like that.

Senate Majority leader Tom Daschle spoke on the
issue this week as well. “There is a sensitivity right
now in the administration about the Bush economy.
We are in a recession. That is something we predicted
a long time ago.”

Harry Reid reiterated to the President that help-
ing unemployed people at the source is what must
be done. “Extending unemployment benefits is not
only the right thing to do — it's also the single best
thing we can do to help our economy. Unemployed
workers need that money — to buy groceries, pay
the rent, and keep the lights and heat on this win-
ter,” Reid said.

Republicans are crying foul that Democrats would
result to “politics as usual.” However, Tom Dacshle
had this to say about the Republicans’ woes: “We
strongly support his (Bush’s) efforts in Afghanistan
and we think that he deserves high marks. We have

significant difference of opinion with him on the _

economy, economic policy, and I wouldn’t give him
high marks to the economy.”

It is important to remember at this time of war, that
the liberty to challenge the administration still
remains. It is what makes this nation what it is. America
is not a nation where political opinion should go un-
heard.

Moreover, Republicans using the current situa-
tion to badmouth Democrats that are ﬁghting for a more
efficient and beneficial economic plan is really the
clearest example of “politics as usual.”

0"

“For Bulgaria to win
the World Cup”
--Vassil Stamenov, ‘O4

 
 

    

PAGE 4

I feel kind of bad for Christ-
mas because it climbs an uphill
battle at W&L.

It’s like everyone gets real
geared up for the holidays for
Christmas Weekend and loses sleep
over the pressing issues including,
but not limited to, finding a date,
finding something to wear, and be-
ing able to hit multiple band par-
ties without pissing off your afore-
mentioned date.

And then after that weekend,
we go back to pulling our hair out
about school, due to looming finals.
Granted, Christmas gets celebrated
plenty once our work is finished
and were home.

But why wait that long? There
is an assortment of institutions that,
like Christmas, are not widely enough
appreciated. So in honor of the holi-
day season, I’m capping off my last
Phi piece of 2001 with a list of
things that we should better appre-
ciate and consider during these
hectic times:

1. Fruits that get stuck with
bad names and dwarfed beneath
mainstream foods like apples and
oranges. Boysenberries. The Asian
Pear. Although their names reek of
glamour, they are commonly over-
looked and pushed downward in
the fruit social caste system.

MEIIIIY CHRISTMAS!
lwrfunﬂzsrmanltllnumrssesml

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and l/l/ilson.

‘ SKIP T||0MPSON'S

22 S. Main Street - Lexington, VA
Open Mon, Tues., Thurs, & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.;
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

540-463-5954

2. Rock stars that forgot to
be talented but still come through
in the clutch with holiday CD’s.
There is no better way to ring in
Christmas than a moving version
of Britney’s “Oh Holy Night” or
*Nsync’s “Oh Come All Ye Faith-
ful.” These Kings of Pop reconcile
Christmas commercialism with

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001

 4
Overlooked items receive recognition

Onomatopoeia, smaller SU Vs, fruits and Britney’s Christmas album all make list of things that deserve a ‘Thank you’

saved due to onomatopoeia should
be entered into a time bank, and
then saved for a rainy day when
you have too much to do and need
more time.

5. Underappreciated SUVs
like Rav—4’s. Like the fruit pariahs,
they typically are mocked by the
more acceptable SUVs like Sub-

good old-fash- urbans and 4-
ioned holiday V .  VVVVV  Runners. Al-
spirit.    though a Rav-4

3. The abil—  " KRlSPOLl.lNA‘03 does resemble

 

ity for soap on

windows to look like snow. I hate it
when it doesn’t snow in December;
Ican’t imagine living in a perpetu-
ally warm climate with no hope ofa
white Christmas. Luckily, soap on
windows can masquerade as snow,
assuaging these fears, and all it
takes is Windex to alter the per-
ceived weather.

4. Onomatopoeia. Words
that sound like the word they de-
scribed make relating stories infi-
nitely easier. For example, instead
of wasting time looking for a word
that conveys severe cold, you can
simply assert, “Burr.”

The best part is, when you’re
writing on a word processor, the
spell check recognizes it as a real
word and doesn’t put a squiggly
line underneath it. All the time

Yoshi of the Su-
per Mario World persuasion, it
still can endure wild terrain and
protruding sticks and branches in
the road. We should give it an-
other chance.

6. The blanket term “ﬂesh-
colored.” In a world of such diver-
sity, a term thatjust assumes all the
same color skin somehow is a uni-
fying force, eradicating the actual
hue implications and suggesting
that all ﬂesh is ﬂesh, and not a color.

7. Electronic Megaphones.
Almost resembling a gun, it puts
across the message that communi-
cation is more powerful than vio-
lence. Also, it plays songs, allow-
ing the user to learn more about
college fight songs.

8. That catch game you play
at the beach with a Velcro tennis

IS taniislutl ii? to in ER

ball and Velcro mitts. You never
miss the ball, boosting athletic mo-
rale and overall confidence in hope— .
ful youth.

9. Bumper stickers on other
people’s cars, not your own. They
prevent boredom in unruly traffic
jams.

10. Middle school-style desks
that have an indentation at the top
for a pencil. During naptime, this
prevents writing utensils from slip-
ping down and hitting your head,
affording the student maximum rest
time potential.

11. Tom, the butcher at
Kroger’s. If you ever need meat late
at night and don’t want any atti-
tude about it, hit up Tom, the ever-
pleasant 60-something mind behind
the goods.

The earth is leaking with
uncelebrated heroes and treasures.
Test tubes. Steak tongs. Cookie
Dough. Wands.

During these crazed times of fi-
nal examinations and other colle-
giate trials and tribulations, I en-
courage you to relish the simple
pleasures in life.

Personally, I value the fact that
since this is the last Phi before
break, no one can write a strongly
worded response to my monument
to blatant inanity for another month.

onomatopoeia and made good usage of the underappreciated literary tool.

|’H( m )(j()l'RTF.SY or TV L'lDF. ARCHIVES
SNAP, CRACKLE, Pop: As Batman, Ad:1m.\V'est understood the value of

 

Have an opinion?

Want to share it with campus?
Seeking to create controversy?
Enjoy receiving nasty letters?

Contact Opinions Editor

Brett Kim/an at X5134 or
kirwanb @wlu

or join us at 7 on Jan. 7.

 

SKE UP TO 91 DRYS FOR THE PRICE OF. 4!

    

 

Garth/lore “Free"

From Your Free Time!

Wintergreen Resort
434-335,-8155
w\vw._'§l'iitnta:rgreenResnrt.cum.

If you're the ktnd of person that‘ wzsuld said every
clay il"yt:2u £L'~=lJLl§(l, ‘JWEEE, new _}-'01.: ttaril Char‘ «Ski &'
Ride Pass git-.«’r:s you up to 91 singer; of $k.lll"§g armzi
5'rit)\\*h4Ja.rdir:g For the rJr£t:t3 of fr:;r.sirl

Ski. 8; Ride Pass $129r*

Best of all, wit.l»a dlra«c:t—n:t-tl'xe-lift actzesa, 
:§'l"l(JWUlé!K‘l.l?tg anti the .l‘-*lit!~z9aI,_le§r‘11ir:'s nerves: and
fasztast lziglzwmatl Eli}, Tire Brim’  .E'x;press,
_yt':l.1.'li grist in .u‘.I:‘.'n:.1'“r‘.'t :;l:ii;w’-.r'I..l.'t.EliE :"I..ms ti1an;3,*::n;: §:vé}:.r‘
i.E1r.:vugti1 pns5lE.:de. SC?! gar yoga’ ski 3: ride pass
today and spmictl all ‘your ‘winner rm.» Eirmrs more
wiatslyi Call liar jg-"<fJ1.§E' Ski &? l5?£ai¢P£’w.$‘1n€£ayl

'-$129 preznoliswnaﬁ prize good thru ‘é..'2:l21.'Gt. Passes valid
daisy Opening étilajr Slim tzlzitﬂrt and after Bliutﬂz. From
12l"2:’:I:.I‘i9‘§ thrsz 3l§t‘l§Iﬁ, pass is walizxd Sunday 12:30 pm thru
Friday iiilghi, exciudiéng ski hc~§%idaya.. Weekends. and aici
holidays, pass heiders receive $5 lift. ticket =cliseoual.

.:I
Q‘

New! The Blue
Ridge Express!

Get to the top of‘ tire
mountain faster than you
can get down — in 2%
minutes fiat l. lntru:fl:ut:lng
the first aigapapeed Ei~
person cluairlift in the
.M‘id-Atiantlr: - The Blue
Rldga Express, E.\:ci.u-
sively at W':intarg1-eon!

   

Java @the GHQ

Presents

a
-I
1'.
[TI
'50
Z
O
3
JD’

 

W&L’s incredible male a cappella group

Monday, December?»
8:30—midnight

As ever, our individually made hot chocolate and
specialty coffee drinks will be available.

 

Jr

ﬁr-

 

 

‘ 4

 

PAGE 5

.,_.,,) .

  

» Mindbending Production’s
* Godspell is more than mere sap

BREAK A LEG: Godspell cast practiced months for the show, which opened over the weekend.

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR-lN—CHlEF

Of the successful religious rock operas
hatched in the early ‘70’s, Godspell is one
of the least-remembered. More experimen-
tal than the formulaic Joseph and the
Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat and far
lighter than the divisive Jesus Christ Su-
perstar (both by Andrew Lloyd Webber),
this rock musical is a forgettable union of
hippie absurdism and watered-down
Christianity.

Nonetheless, the high energy and youth
of the cast, assembled by director Neal

Another standout was freshman Andy
Dewherst, who played the disciple Herb.
Along with Durham and the capable junior
Justin Huston (John the Baptist/Judas), he
was one of the few men in the production,
and gave routinely enjoyable set pieces.

The ladies also delivered enjoyable per-
formances, including freshman Lauren
Partridge’s sultry “Tum Back, 0 Man.”

As regards directing, the original
Godspell ’s setting was a blighted urban lot,
with nothing on stage but three unﬁnished
wooden planks, two sawhorses and a chain-_
link fence. The background of a decayed
city contrasted with the actors’ bright cos-

LIFE    
Tw0—sport F

photo courtesy Mindbending Productin

Ti-:l_l}:7. £iilN(_}—"l"l_lM Pl--ll:

MAIIHEIY Cotl<sE\I&KAiE GUY
W&LIEE EDnDRs
EMAII;cotr<sEI\lxI@\lvIlIli)II&GIli’@\II»IiII3DIl

BY MATTHEW A. COURSEN
W&LlFE EDITOR

One of the advantages of attending a
school like W&L is that students have a
wealth of extra-curricular opportunities from
which to choose. Though the vast majority
of students choose to compete in just one
sport or one activity, there are those who are
just plain gifted with the ability to do more.
Juniors Chris Sullivan and John Mele are two
of those rare, exceptional student—athletes
who compete in two varsity sports here at
W&L while maintaining excellent academic
standing as well.

This fall, Sullivan was one of the most dan-
gerous running backs in all of Division HI
football and one of the most proliﬁc in school
history, amassing 2,024 all-purpose yards this
season, a W&L record. Fortunately, the 2-
time Verizon Academic All—Dist1ict Team mem-
ber will be back again next year to help lead
the Generals to the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championship.

Mele played defensive back and helped
the generals have one of their most success-
ful defensive seasons in years. Though he
retired midway through the season, Mele
contributed immensely to the program for
nearly three years. In addition to playing
football, both Mele and Sullivan are in the
same fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, and are
computer science majors.

Sullivan, who boasts a 3.65 grade point
average, also competes on the indoor track
team, running the 100 meters, 200 meters,

ijl

    

duoison

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001

the right track

   

about his team or their chances to make good
things happen this year. “It’ll  tough, but I’m
sure we can find someone to replace
[Watson]. . .we are a good relay team that com-
petes for ODAC honors every year.”

Chip Muir, the jumping coach for the varsity
track team, is a second-year law student across
campus and was a jumper himself at Washing-
ton and Jefferson College where he earned all
conference honors twice. Both Muir and head
coach Norris Aldridge have tremendous conﬁ-
dence in Sullivan and Mele both as players and
as people. When asked to comment on Sullivan’s
ability, Muir offered some inspiring praise. “Chris
had a great season last year. He was consis-
tently jumping over 22 feet, so any little improve-
ment this year will probably get him an invita-
tion to the NCAA championships.”

Pnorro BY MEG l‘F.RR.\RA/ The Rmg-/um Plli
TRACK TWOSOME:__luni()rS and fraternity brothers john Mele and Chris Sullivan play two sports.

sation, Mele competed in the triple jump event
for the first time in his athletic career. Overcom-
ing a series of hampering injuries, Mele man-
aged to jump the farthest in the entire ODAC
with a distance of 44 feet. Going into the con-
ference championships, Mele was favored to
win the triple jump event; however, his injuries
kept him from competing.

After retiring from the football team midway
through this season to concentrate more on his
impressive major grade point average of 3.3,
Mele is looking to put an exclamation point on
his track career with a trip to the NCAA champi-
onships. When asked how he plans to respond
to his inj ury-plagued ﬁnish last year, Mele said,
“My goal this year is to jump 45 or 46 feet and
be among the top three in the nation.” Mele will
also throw the javelin and run sprints.

it willetts, salvage much of a play heavily re. ’ turnes and clowning, and played up the theme 4x100 meter relay, and partipating in the long During his freshlnan year, Mele played foot- Jumping coach Chip Muir sees trelnendous
liant on its actors’ enthusiasm, of youthful spirituality surrounded by obso_ jump. This winter, Sullivan Will try t0 improve ball and toyed With the idea Of continuing  potential in the two-sport athlete.
Presenting a series of episodes from the lescence and despair upon his performance in the long jump last track career into college. Having participated “John, with a little practice, will turn into
‘ Gospel of Matthew (usually enactments of The  stage production, however, March when 21’ l 1” and won  in the CllSCLlS, Sh0t put, pole vault and  one Of the best  has ever had.”
parables), Godspell offers all of the actors uses instead atrunk and two sirnilarly-painted place at the W&L Invitational. That jump meter race in high school, Mele was ready to It seems athletics just come naturally to guys
a chance to take the solo spotlight for at mini—platforrns and ladders. The amateur set Was 0111)’ 10 inches Shy Of tying the SCh001 compete at the next level. Once he arrived at like Mele and Sullivan. The 5’9” Sullivan played
least a minute or two, staging was visually unappealing and did long jump record set by W.S. Sandifer back W&L, however, Mele found that he enjoyed football, winter soccer and track at Alamo
4 Freshman Matthew Durham ably led the little to advance the themes of the play_ At in 1927. As attainable as breaking that record football more and decided to focus on that Heights High School in Texas. The 5’ 10”, 185-
cast as Jesus, He mustered the necessary least its very prosaicness forced the audi_ may seem, Sullivan lS focused on specific Sp0I‘t full time. At the beginning Of the sea- pound Mele was also a three-sport star in fO0t-
f charisma, and also maintained an appropri— ence to focus on Jesus and his crew_ goals for  team and himself. son, the varsity football team had their ball, wrestling and track at River Hill High SCh0Ol
ate air of divine aloofness from his garnbol- Willetts made good use oflighting_ His use Sullivan’s humble and quiet demeanor be- strength and conditioning tests to measure in Maryland. Both guys are good friends and
ﬂ ing disciples Only tripping up a few times of colopbackgrounds was competent and not lies  tenacity on the playing ﬁeld and hiS individual training habits during the off-sea- fierce competitors. Above all else, Mele and
in his longer second-act speeches, Durhanfs distracting, He also adequately utilized focus for this season, to win the conference son. Head track and field coach Norris Sullivan want to take the W&L men’s track team
greatest fault was an occasional foray into Johnson Theater’s size to promote audience title in the long jump. Naturally, he wants to Aldridge was ﬁnishing his 30"‘ season as an to nationals and win their respective events.
'1 overly-precise speech that wavered be- interaction_0ne ofwilletts’ best moves was to maintain a high level of competition in his assistant football coach when he noticed Whether in the air, on the field, or in the
tween crispness and affectation, Distrac- abandon the clown niake-up, which would have sprinting events as well. With the loss of Marc Mele’s exceptional jumping ability. After set- classroom, Mele and Sully are two great guys
‘ [ions aside , he turned in a good performance obstructed much of the play’s energy/_ Watson, W&L’S multiple record holderin track ting a W&L record for verticaljump, Mele was t0 have on your side. And both are huge rea-
‘ by anyone’s standards, much more for a All in all, the play’s distinguishing fea-  and football, Sullivan’s relay team will most approached by Coach Aldridge the following sons W&L should be noticed more for its ath-
freshman taking on a leading role for his ture, the energy of its cast, was G0dspel1’s likely suffer. However, you won’t catch the winter and was convinced to try out for the letics and, more importantly, its student—ath—
* first W&L production, focal point and its saving grace_ captain saying anything but positive things track and field team. As the sophomore sen- letes.

, Lexington opens a can of whoop ass: energy drinks hit market  

q NEWS EDITOR naturally found in the body. The manufacturers claim that
taurine, combined with some of the other herbal ingredients, _
_ The night is creeping by, midnight more than hours past. boosts physical and mental performance.
9 Head heavy, eyes drooping, drowsiness threatens to take But, mostly, the “kick” comes from the caffeine.
over. No worries, problem solved: reach for energy in an 8.3 Each can contains 80 mgs of caffeine, more than twice as
‘ ounce can. much as a similar serving of Mountain Dew and about the
This is a story becoming more common on college cam- same as a strong cup of coffee.
puses nationwide, including Washington and Lee. Whether W&L’s Horton said increased headaches, heart rate, blood
T it’s to dance the night away in a frat house basement or to pressure and anxiety are possible side effects of consuming
study for that test in a library Carrel, more students are gulp- concentrations of caffeine.
4 ing down so—called “energy drinks” to stay awake and alert. Horton added that the Federal Drug Administration and

BY ALISON TRINIDAD

For W&L senior Quincy Springs, these drinks are a study
aid.

The drinks also contain taurine, an amino acid that is

Federal Trade Commission do not regulate or endorse the
claims of energy—drink labels. The FDA has not yet had

 

‘ “I consume these beverages for a pick—me-up for study— cause to evaluate the safety of energy drinks, but experts
ing or simply to stay awake in class,” he said. “They upset agree that while unhealthy, the drinks are not dangerous to
1* my stomach and they at least cause a placebo effect in that most people without health problems if taken in moderation.
if they are not keeping me awake, I think they are.” Snapple, a company that claims its drinks are made from
A Red Bull, Adrenalin Rush, WhoopAss, Venom. Gener- “the best stuff on Earth,” introduced Venom last July to the Photos courtesy of sh0pping.yahoo.c0m
ally packaged in sleek, slim cans, these caffeine— and sugar- energy drink market. With Venom, Sna le 'oined the likes
laden drinks claim to enhance alertness and stamina. Mean— of Coca-Cola Co., PepsiCo Inc. and Anhlehsei-Busch Cos.— "HI" I a n Ma M" I M can "ammo-ml‘ ea I 0 no 5 S“ In "in 0
;. tvylhile, students and bar patrons in Lexington are downing all of which make. and market their own branded energy 180 Anheuser Busch 243 120 walman $1.64/can
e drinks, working harder and partying longer, as if they drink, and all of which trail behind market-leader Red Bull. walman $1.98/can
g have found the ultimate legal stimulant. I Red Bull is estimated to own two-thirds of a young but Adrenaline Rush 30 Be 246 1 40 Kmart $179/can .
Some, however, are concerned that the beverages will be growing market. With its signature slim can, Red Bull en-
abused like other not-so-legal stimulants. tered the United States from Austria around 1997, creating a Amp PepsiCo, 248 1 20 walman $198/can
‘ Jane Horton, director of W&L health services, said n1ix- buzz among partygoers and the clubbing crowd for mixing watma” $1 _50/can
' ing alcohol with energy drinks is a risk. “Sedation is the well with vodka. Blue Ox Vancol Bev. Group 250 103 W&L Snackbar $1_33/ean
’ body’s warning sign of alcohol intake,” she said. “If energy Since then, energy drinks have developed into a $130 I Walmart $1.50/can
drinks counteract that effect, people may drink more alcohol million enterprise in the United States, Gary Hemphill of Bev— 3- OX orange VanC0l Bev. Group 250 11 0 W&L Snackbar $1 .33/can
l‘ without knowing it.” erage Marketing Corp., an industry consulting group, told Walmarl A $1.50/can
Red Bull, the energy drink that “gives you wings,” made The Wall Street Journal. That ﬁgure is all the more remark- 8- ox real P°wer Vancol Be‘/' Group 250 l 30 W&L Snackbar $1 .33/can
‘ headlines last July when the Swedish National Food Admin— able as it has‘ virtuall doubled in each of the ast ﬁve years: . . Walmm $1 50/93”
I i istration (SNFA) issued a public warning about its safety $75 millionin 1999, sziz niillionin1998and$l2Ir)riillionin 1997. B‘ °“°ta' "“'°a°t Va"°°' Bev‘ Gmup 950 118 W&L 3"a°kba' $1-33/°a“
I g and linked it to the deaths of three people who had drunk it. Hem hill estimates the U.S. market will more than double -_ ~ '
« Two died after mixing the drink with vodka while a third this yearpto roughly $300 million. Dr‘ Enuf T" my iaev’ Group 375 13° W“ S”"‘°"""" $‘ "‘3””°“'e
person died after drinking several cans following a heavy The category still is small, however, when compared with Hansenls Energy Hansen 5 Be‘/' 246 120 Svvsstphparmacy $511299//°a"
I’ workout at the gym. the $60 billion U.S. market for carbonated soft drinks — which Tpepglrglzeyors $550/:22
The manufacturers said that there was no proof the deaths includes popular sodas like Pepsi, Diet Coke and Sprite. Red Bull Red Bull 250 110 By Oasis $3150/can
were linked to Red Bull and that the allegations were fueled Washington Street Purveyors’ owner Chuck Smith says
by speculation. he brought the energy drink market to Lexington. Venom Snapple, Elements 243 130 W. St. Purveyors $1 .99/can
The company maintains that Red Bull’s main purpose is “It probably wouldn’t be where it is now if I hadn’t,” he
as an energy drink and not a mixer. The Independent Florida said. Wh°°PA55 Jones Soda C0. 2 50 110 W. St. Purveyors $1 .99/can

 

Alligator, a daily student newspaper serving the University
of Florida, spoke to Emmy Cortes, national spokeswoman
for Red Bull North America.

“We try to appeal to people who need energy or revital-
ization,” Cortes said. “This could be a college student be-
fore an exam, an athlete before a sporting event or a busi-
ness person before a big meeting.”

Unlike sports drinks such as Gatorade and PowerAde,
energy drinks do not restore ﬂuids and electrolyte balance
which are lost when a person sweats a lot. They are not
“thirst quenchers.” Just the opposite. These sugary soft

He started carrying Red Bull in September because W&L
students often came in looking for the drink. Smith said he
would have started selling the beverage earlier, but there
was no distributor in the area.

Washington Street Purveyors also sells WhoopAss and
Venom, but Smith said Red Bull leads the pack.

“Red Bull surpasses the others far and beyond,” he said.

The W&L Snack Bar carries a variety of beverage cat-
egories, including Dr. Enuf and four ﬂavors of Blue Ox. I

“The kids asked for it,” said Jeff Lynn, snack bar man-

lnformation compiled by Alison Trinidad; Chart designed by Matthew McDermott

tain drinks made up more than 55 percent of total beverage
sales last month, 62 percent in May.

Although CVS would not disclose speciﬁc sales data,
Todd Andrews at the corporate office said the drug store
chain did not sell many energy drink products. Lexington’s
CVS carries only Hansen’s Energy drink.

The Palm’s can go through two cases, or 48 cans, a night
each weekend, said bartender Laurel Smith. The bar started
serving Red Bull about two months ago. Smith said those

Holmes said many law and undergraduate W&L students
had made requests for the drink.

W&L senior Chris Roche, who bartends at Travellers Bar
& Grill, said the requests for Red Bull started corrling in this
school year. The bar, however, does not carry the energy
drink.

“I’m hoping we carry it soon,” Roche said.

Senior Lisa Chew isn’t as anxious as Roche. Regardless
of all the energy—drink hype, her decision came down to taste
when she tried Dr. Enuf. E

' ager, “and when they ask, I try to stock it.” who asked for the drink usually ordered it with a shot of
drinks usually contain lots of caffeine and, occasionally, Those drinks also boast energy boosts, memory reten— vodka. “It tasted horrible,” she said. “It tasted like chewable
guarana, a South African plant that supplies a caffeine-like tion and stress relief effects. In October, the snack bar sold “It’s all pretty much W&L guys,” she said. Flinstone’s vitaniins—oh, it’s horrible.”

Y substance. Caffeine is a diuretic, so the more you drink, the 451 units of Blue Ox and Dr. Enuf, accounting for 4 percent Down the street, at BJ’s Oasis, it’s the same story. Owner Chew said she’s going to stick to drinking Coke at night
thirstier you become. of total beverage sales, down from 5.5 percent in May. Foun- John Holmes started selling Red Bull three weeks ago. to stay awake.

i

 

  

”l‘.h.l.I{;~«';-ii  P~: "
Pmaé        L 4*    0     MONDA’, OCTOBER 22, 2001

iii“! 3‘

4;‘

'4

1:‘? I
/ ""&../1l/ i’.
1' /V,' 3.’ ii‘/I//[J
.!:f..\’ -

:,- ._
. / . //
/{_"({""'.“'i/«"4'//,'

‘T I _'
fl‘;-,‘,/\/7.”

HOLIDAY CARDS 0 DAZZLING ORNAMENTS 0 L|GHTS¢§ 2

121 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450

540.464.5002
www.shoppumpl<inseeds.com

COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

‘*' SEIEDIOVED NVW.LSlélHZ) 0 S‘|3MEiF ON|'|)|HVclS 0 SEHGNVO <‘.lEllNlM

WARM MITTENS ° FESTIVE SOAPS ° FUZZY HATS

- December 27 — BOSTON, MA - Avalon
18 & Over, Tickets on sale now at: all Next Ticket outlets,
I?’ charge by phone at (617) 423-NEXT'and www.nextticketing.com
With Special Guest Afroman

4. ‘December 28 - PHILADELPHIA, PA - Electric Factory

1 All Ages, Tickets on sale now at all Ticketmaster outlets, chargeby phone

at (215) 336-2000, Electric Factory box office and www.tic|<etmaster.com
With Special Guest Afroman ‘ -

( December 29 - NEW YORK, NY - Irving Plaza
:16 & Over, Tickets on sale now at all Ticketmaster outlets, charge by phone at
(212) 307-7171, Irving Plaza box office and www.ticketmaster.com
- . With Special Guest Afroman

December 30 - WASHINGTON, DC - 9:30 Club  Student apartments ava"ab|e

All Ages, Tickets on sale now at all Ticketmaster outlets, charge by phone
at (202) 432-7328 or (800) 551-7328 (DC area) and (703) 573-7328
(N. VA area), 9:30 Club box office and www.ticketmaster.com

Wit“ 5PeC‘a' Guest Cecilia * One house with 6 bedrooms---available NOW! *

. December 31 ‘ N°RF°'-Kr VA ~ The N°rV-‘=' ' * One house with 4 bedrooms---available in summer. *
All Ages, Tickets on sale now at all Ticketmaster outlets,

charge by phone at (757) 671-8100, Backstage Cafe (757) 622-5915, _ , * Enjoy country living at its finest. *

Ti‘) N b ff‘ — 757 627-4 , . . - -
6 “Va °" ‘2,nL§:‘f,v§,,w__&cketmai‘§,Z,_c“}’,",Z,W t;he”°”’a Cv°m-—  ~ * Just ten miles west of W&L on Waterloo Drive. *

. _ _ ‘_ » —: I A . . _ V .  3..  » _ y Please call Tim Wilhelm at
~.WWW .‘ p a ii m cg eeb a‘n1Ci‘f; C0,; , ‘ 540-463-6575, 540-463-2868, or
V .  I, .    .. . » 1 Wu 540_57o_-191-1(ce")

 

«I» P7 

V

 

 R1N(}~'ftl2ll PEI

MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001

PORTS

  

JEREMYFRANKIIN
SPORTS EDITOR

FMAII;ERANI<IiN)@\IcIIIn)U

PAGE 7

W&L names Cerino men’s lacrosse coach

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The search for a head coach at one
of Division III’s most proliﬁc men’s
lacrosse programs has ended, as
Washington and Lee appointed Mike
Cerino to the position on Tuesday.

Cerino, 35, founded the men’s la-
crosse program at Division II Lime-
stone in 1990, winning a national cham-
pionship there in 2000. He coached
boys’ lacrosse last year at The Char-
lotte Latin School in North Carolina.

“Mike is a seasoned coach who
has experienced success during his
coaching career,” W&L'athletic direc-
tor Mike Walsh said. “His involve-
ment in the sport of lacrosse is at the
highest level.

“Mike is known as an excellent
teacher and motivator, and we look
forward to having him direct the for-
tunes of our men’s lacrosse program.
I know that he is eager to begin his
work with our lacrosse players.”

Cerino inherits a team that has
qualiﬁed for the NCAA Tournament
in three of the last four seasons, in-
cluding a semifinal appearance in
2000. Though the Generals didn’t
make the tournament last year, they
did ﬁnish third in the ﬁnal USILA Di-
vision III poll.

The new coach admits that there

is immediate pressure to put victories
in the books, but he believes that he’s
well prepared to deal with it.

“There is some pressure to win
now,” Cerino said. “Most of all, the

FRIDAY NXGHT SWIMMING:_]uniOr Patrick Frankfort (above) and the Generals

 

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

While most Washington and Lee
students were enjoying Christmas
Weekend kickoff parties on Friday, the
men’s and women’s swim teams were
hard at work, hosting VMI and
Radford at Twombly Pool.

The women defeated Radford 143-
59, while the men routed VMI 126-78.

It was a bittersweet night for the
Generals, however, because it was

defeated VMI 126-78, while junior Kelli Austin (right) and the women’s team
knocked off Radford 143-59. (Photos by Meg Ferrara/ T/Je Ring-tum P/J2)

senior Katie Kennedy’s last night as
a Generals swimmer. Kennedy is
graduating early with a degree in En-
glish, and so has ﬁnished her season.

Women’s coach Kiki Moore rec-
ognized Kennedy’s achievements in
a brief ceremony before the meet be-
gan, noting that Kennedy is the var-
sity record holder in the 100 and 200
breaststroke events.

In the pool, the Generals swam an
excellent meet. Kennedy posted two
individual victories, in the 200 IM and

pressure comes from the inside... I
probably haven’t been as rested for a
lacrosse season in a long time. I hope
that conveys onto the field. I’m look-
ing forward to taking this team as far
as they’ll go.”

Swimmers close Fall Term with victories

the 100 breaststroke, while junior
Patrick Frankfort cruised to easy wins
in the 1,000 freestyle and the 500
freestyle. Both teams swam to early
leads in the point standings, and
never looked back.

Earlier in the week, the women dis-
patched Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College by a ﬁnal score of 176-80 to
improve to 4-0 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

Kennedy set two meet records, in
the 500 freestyle and the 200 IM, and

The cupboard is certainly not bare
for Cerino, who replaces Jim Stagnitta
at the helm. Stagnitta coached the
Generals to a 383-278-3 record over
12 seasons before leaving for Divi-
sion I Rutgers in October.

 

teamed with junior Michelle Moore,
senior Maggie Fagan and junior Kelli
Austin to win the 200 medley relay.

Senior Laura Ingoldsby, freshman
Katie Johnston, freshman Suzie
LaFleur and Austin also won the 200
freestyle relay.

W&L’s women are now 6-2 for the
season, and the men are 2-2. The
teams depart to Clearwater, Fla., for
winter training on Dec. 28, and will
return to competition at Catholic Uni-
versity on Jan. 12.

Basketball teams start year with mixed results

FROM STAFF REPORTS

' The Washington and Lee women’s
basketball team traveled to Washington
University for the annual McWillia1ns
Classic on Nov. 24-25, looking to face great
competition and gain team experience.

They couldn’t have played a more
difﬁcult team in the opener, facing tour-
nament host, and four-time defending
national champion, Washington Uni-
versity, and losing 75-54. The Gener-
als followed this up by losing the con-
solation match to Swarthmore, 64-49.

, On Wednesday, W&L opened up
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
play with a 66-56 loss to Lynchburg.

After taking their lumps for the week,
the Generals decided to ruin someone
else’s afternoon. The Generals took
Randolph-Macon to double overtime
before pulling out a 76-7 1 victory in their

’ home opener on Saturday night.

The Generals (1-3, 1-1 ODAC)
struggled early on with their passing
game and allowed some key three-
pointers to the Yellow Jackets, but still
only trailed by seven, 28-21, at the half.

W&L worked their way back, even-
tually forcing a tie game at 41-41 half-
way through the second half. Senior
Sarah Schmidt later forced overtime
by splitting a pair of free throws with
20 seconds remaining in regulation.

In the first overtime period, the
Generals pulled ahead 68-66 when
senior Jessica Mentz connected on
two free throw shots with 1:24 to play.
Randolph-Macon, however, forced
the second overtime with a putback
by forward Sarah Crider.

  

MARY U1’/The Ring-/rm! Pi)

NEW QUARTERBACK: Freshman point guard Bethany Dannelly brings the ball upcourt
in W&L’s 76-71, double-overtime win over Randolph-Macon on Saturday.

In the second overtime, the Gener-
als grabbed a 71-69 lead and never
gave it up, hitting four key free throws
in the last minute. Free throw shoot-
ing propelled the Generals’ offense,
as W&L shot 73 percent (30-of-41)
from the charity stripe.

Senior center Megan Babst led the
Generals with 22 points and 13 re-
bounds. Mentz added 20 points and
13 boards, while freshman Emily
Barker chipped in 14 points, four re-
bounds, three steals and two assists.

In their ODAC opener, the Gener-
als led 24-23 at the half, but couldn’t
stop Lynchburg during a 10-0 run in
the second half. The Hornets finished
off W&L in the ﬁnal minutes by mak-
ing seven of eight free throws.

Men’s team opens with
stronger stan‘ than 2000-01

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team was determined not to
have another disastrous season-open-
ing run.

The Generals, who started 0-8 a
year ago, opened the regular season
with a 28-point blowout of Haverford
on Nov. 16. Although there have
been some ups and downs since
then, W&L is out to a stronger start
than 2000-01.

Against Haverford in the Equi-
nox Classic, the Generals dominated
the second half in extending a 30-22
halftime lead to a 71-43 final margin.

 

W&L received a 70-63 setback
to Swarthmore on Nov. 17, day two
of the Equinox. The Garnet used a
17-4 run to close the first half and
take a three-point lead into the
break, never trailing after intermis-
sion. 3

The Generals yielded another big
run in a 70-65 loss to Wesley in their
home opener on Nov. 20. W&L led
with just under 13 minutes remaining,
but a 17-2 Wolverines run gave them
a double-digit lead.

W&L evened up its record with
a 56-53 win over Greensboro at the
Warner Center on Nov. 25. The Gen-
erals endured another second-half
run by their opponent, nearly los-
ing a 10-point lead with 2:38 left to
play.

The Pride chipped the W&L ad-
vantage down to 54-53 with 22 sec-
onds left, butjunior Jake McAlister
sank a pair of free throws and a
game-tying buzzer-_beater rimmed
out. '

W&L took to the road on
Wednesday, dropping a 70-55 deci-
sion to Division I William and Mary.
The Generals shot just 31 percent
from the floor in the first half, but
improved to 52 (12-of-23) after half-
time.

Washington and Lee University
opened Old Dominion Athletic
Conference competition on Satur-
day, December 1 at Randolph-Ma-
con. The Randolph-Macon Yellow
Jackets reeled off an 18-1 run to
close the first half, cruising to an
82-64 win.

CERINO FILE

-Coached Limestone College to
80-55 record (1990-2000)

-Won 2000 NCAA Division ll
national championship

-Deep South Conference Coach
of the Year (1994, 1998)

-Street & Smith’s College
Lacrosse USA’s Division ll
National Coach of the Year (2000)

MEET THE PRESS: New Washington and

"Lee men’s lacrosse coach Mike Cerino

ﬁelds questions at a Tuesday morning
press conference.Cerino began the
program at Limestone in 1990, winning
an NCAA Division II national ,
championship there 10 years later. He
begins his duties this week. (Photo by
Meg Ferrara/ T/Je Rirzgmm P/92)

"Ihings are going in a good direction,”
Cerino said. “There are some top-notch
players, the Iecmiting base is strong, we’re
playing (against) the right people.

“Washington and Lee is one of
those special college lacrosse situa-

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee track
program began its 2001-02 indoor
season by traveling across town for
the VMI Invitational on Saturday af-
ternoon. The invitational drew both
Division I teams and a number of
Division III programs.

Men’s coach Norris Aldridge
and women’s coach John Tucker
agreed that the invite provided an
important stepping-stone into sea-
son competition, which resumes
on Jan. 25 when the Generals travel
to Christopher Newport.

“The importance of this invite
was to gauge how much work we
need to do as a team. Plus, all the
runners that have been working out
in the fall got to experience some
competition,” Aldridge said.

“This was a good jump in the

pool, just to get our feet wet in com-
petition,” Tucker added. “We go
until April, so this is the first step
on a long road. We expect steady
improvement throughout the
year.” ,
The VMI Invitational differs from
other competitions in that no ofﬁ-
cial team scoring is kept. In addition,
Tucker noted that the events are
evenly distributed with regard to tal-
ent. This helps overcome the pres-
ence of Division I schools.

The invitational functions as a
time trial, giving the athletes a very
early gauge regarding times that
will undoubtedly improve through-
out the season. Tucker and
Aldridge each noted that their run-
ners have not reached peak physi-
cal shape this early.

The coaches still were very
pleased by the overall performances
of the teams.

Tucker pointed out a few run-
ners and throwers who especially
impressed him, including freshmen
Liz Crawford and Jessica Remmert,
who each competed in the 50-meter
dash.

“Liz will become a very competi-
tive runner this season, plus she’ll
add another dimension in the high
jump,” Tucker said. “Jessica has

tions that I really want to be a part
of,” he added. “They have an excel-
lent lacrosse tradition, and Coach
Stagnitta has maintained the program
at the top of Division III for over a
decade. I’m very pleased about tak-
ing the reigns and adding another
chapter to its storied history.”

Cerino’s lacrosse experience ex- T‘
tends well beyond his head coach- . ;

ing résumé. He has served on the
NCAA Men’s Lacrosse Champion-

ship Committee, the NCAA Men’s La- 1. ; .-
crosse Rules Committee, the USILA 
Division II All-America Committee 5‘

and the USILA Division II Ranking
Committee.

He was also named Street & Smith ’s
College Lacrosse USA’s Division II
Coach of the Year in 20()0 and the Deep
South Conference Coach of the Year
in 1994 and 1998. Cerino has earned
the Jim “Ace” Adams National Sports-
manship Award twice.

It’s because of that experience that
Cerino believes he is the perfect ﬁt
for Washington and Lee.

“I.’ve earned my stripes in the re-
cruiting wars,” Cerino said. “I kind of
feel like it’s halftime. A jolt of enthusi-
asm might be beneﬁcial, and I’ m look-
ing forward to bringing that to the
table. I’m excited about what W&L
can accomplish.”

Track teams open 2001-02
season with VMI Invitational

MEG FERRARA / The Ring-in/21 P/21'
STRETCHING our: Audrey Walker and
the Generals opened the season with
the VMI Invitational on Saturday.

never run before and is just learning
the conditioning and preparation
techniques. I was very pleased with
her performance.”

In addition, Tucker said freshman
Kim Gunst and senior Britt Shaffer
performed respectably in the 200
meter, and that freshman Audrey
Walker, also a relative newcomer,
performed well in the shot put.

The invitational, however, did
not reflect the entire team that
Tucker will run during the out-
door season. Athletes who par-
ticipated in fall sports did not run,
with both coaches choosing to
allow those who trained in the fall
to compete.

Aldridge, entering his 32nd
year as head track and field coach,
believed his team ran well, but
conceded that very few compet-
ing teams were in top physical

shape.

He praised the performances of
team captains Mike Hegg and Ian
McAllister, both seniors, and
freshman Brian Krupczak in par-
ticular.

“Overall, this is very early in the
season and I was happy with how
we came out and ran,” Aldridge
said.

INTERESTED IN WRITING FOR THE PHI?
Opportunities are available to cover
men’s and women’s basketball,

swimming, track and wrestling.

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at
frank|inj@w|u.edu or x4060.

 

 

    

   

 

 R::<«;.-  §’le:l I
PAGE 8  ‘ MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2001 ‘
pI'€pElf€ O1’ 611 €I1I112l F1111 ,
W &L d f C t i 1 
Wrestlers lack depth and experience, but possess enough talent to compete now In conference play
BY JEREMY FRANKLIN V
SPLiR'l‘S EDITOR
Despite losing four seniors and ii
having little depth at all but a handful ,
of weight classes, veteran coach Gary A
Franke has plenty to be excited about
with his 2001-02 Washington and Lee
wrestling team. 4'
To ﬁll the void left by John and Greg
Valentine, Josh Chamberlain and John
Sensing, several Generals have moved
up a weight class, and newcomers and T ’
new starters will ﬁll other voids.
“This year’s team has probably got
a little bit less experience than some
of the others,” said Franke, who is g «
coaching the team for the 29th sea— ’
son. “Those four guys are hard to re-
place because they were in the pro~ 3
gram for four years, and there was a
lot of development.” ’
inexperience and depth are poten-
tial problems, but W&L returns \ F“ Hm-

enough talent to compete now. Lead-
ing the pack is senior captain Ezra
Morse, who was 20-3 last season and
has won the VMI Keydet Invitational
against primarily Division I opponents
three years in a row.

“He brings great intensity,” Franke
said of Morse. "His intensity, his com-
petitiveness, his hard—working spirit
—— he's much more involved than he’s
ever been.”

The l97—pound Morse believes

_ READY TO TACKLE THE CENTENNIAL: Freshman Brian Avello,
shown here in the Nov. 12 VMI Invitational, and the

in the past. We are weak at some
weight classes, but we’ll see howthat
pans out.”

The Generals won’t be a one-man
show, however. Sophomore Joe
Mueller is a returning Centennial Con-
ference champion at the 184-pound
class, and seniors Ben Segal (125) and
Ivan Zdanov (174) are in their fourth

man and also a newcomer, will replace
Sensing as the heavyweight.

The Generals will seek to improve
upon last year’s 3-3 record in the Cen-
tennial, where they compete against
Ursinus, Johns Hopkins, Muhlenberg,
Gettysburg and nationally-ranked
Western Maryland.

“I hope we can improve on our

Washington and Lee wrestling team begin Centennial
Conference play injanuary.

termining how the Generals will per-
form later on in the year.

“The early season just gives you
a chance to see where you are tech-
nically, and to see where you are from
a fitness perspective,” Franke said.
“It gives you some great feedback,
so we can work on certain things we
need to work on. I think it kind of

that this year’s team differs fromgthe year with the program. conference finish,” Franke said. “I sets the tone for the rest of the sea— 
three he’s wrestled for thus far. Sophomore Anjan Ghosh will start think we can gain a lot of experience. son, too.”
“(This team) is very, very different at 133, and junior John Polena is pen— We’re going to have to rely on our Regardless of how W&L performs g‘

from the teams l’ve been on at W&L,”
he said. “This year we have probably
the fewest number of people out, but
talent—wise I think we have one of the
best teams that we’ve had, even
though we don’t have a lot of depth.

“The individuals on this team are
working way harder than they have

ciled in at 141. Sophomore Corey
Little has moved up to replace Cham~
berlain at 149.

W&L will start freshman Brian
Avello at the 157-pound class, while
junior Alex Poor and sophomore Steve
Saks are battling for the 165 spot. Se-
nior Matt Jacobs, an offensive line-

Generals finish fourth

FROM STAFF REPORTS Senior Ivan Zdanov accomplished Tuesday, Dec. 4 Saturday, Jan. 5 Saturday, Jan. 12
the same feat at 174. Zdanov pinned _ W°"‘°"i3 l3a5k°lba” Vvg:stit"('39n b Q d W'°3”l"9 ’ g .
SCRANTON,Pa.——The Washing- Ty Edwards of Albright and beat MW7 W““'”‘~“°” 3‘ W&L’ 12a pnii is uig iia " W&L ai UiS'"”S i”i'iai'°”ai’
ton and Lee wrestling team placed Lycoming’s Dale Jones. Joe Amone ii'iii' women's Basketball Meni.i::'nii,i1' w°men.s
fourth of 1 1 teams at the Scranton In- of Kings defeated him in the ﬁnals. Wednesday’ Dec_ 5 Blidgewalef 31 W&L» 4 P-in swimming

vitational on Saturday.
Senior Ezra Morse won the 197-

pound championship with wins over Brian Avello (157) each recorded one w'°5t”"9_ , _ Tuesday. Jan- 8 i-ynchbuyig ai W&L‘ 3 pm‘
Tegan McKee of Kings Luke win on the day andjunior Alex Poor soiiiiieiii Viigiiiia ai W&L’ w°"'°"iS Baskeiba” women S Baskeibaii
Ro:enberger of Baptist Bible and ' f t h ‘ th 165 733° piii’ W&L ai Viigiiiia weS'ey"”’ W&L“ E"i°iy and iieiiiy’

C ‘ won a pair 0 ma c es in e — 7 p_m_ 4 pm
Glenn Zimmermann of Kings. pound ﬂight. wednesday, Jan, 2

So homore Jose h Mueller was Kin s won the tournament with Women's Basketball Wednesdaltr Jan- 9 Sunday, Jan. 13

P P 2 W H.

the runner—up in the 184-pound 134 points. Lycoming was second at G'ee“5b°'° 3‘ W&L 4 9-” Miﬁls gig W&L 6 M°"i5 Baskelba"

~ _ , , , - - a - Men’s Basketball “ 9” 9'9 ai - pm" Hampden—Sydney at W&L,
weight class, defeating Albright s Bill 69.5, followed by the College of New Gumord at W&L 7 p m Mews Basketba" 3 p m
Brennen and Keith Kubicek of the Jersey at 68.5 and W&L at 47.5. i i ' Eastern Mennonite at W&L, 7 i '
College of New Jersey before falling W&L hosts Southern Virginia in a Friday’ Jan_ 4 pm‘ Monday, Jan_ 14
to Kubiceksteammate, Dale Rismiller, non-conference dual match at 7:30 Women's Basketball Thmsday, Jan_ 10 Men’s and Women’s
in the finals. p.m. on Wednesday. Easier“ Me””°“lle 3‘ W&L: Women's Basketball Swimming

Junior John Polena (141), sopho-
more Corey Little (149), freshman

seniors, the four guys who are in there,
to do well and perform well. We hope
we can get some more conference
champions.”

The coach believes that early-sea—
son tournaments, such as the Nov. 12
VMI invite and Saturday’s Scranton
Invitational, can go a long way in de-

in dual meets, Morse believes several
Generals are in for a strong season.

“Individually, there’s going to be
a lot better wrestlers this year,” Morse
said. “But I’m looking forward to all
the duals, seeing how well we do
against all the other teams. I’m excited
about conference now.”

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES DEC. 4-JAN. 14

Men’s Basketball
W&L at Bridgewater, 7 p.m.

4 pm.

Men’s Basketball ,
W&L at Roanoke, 7 p.m.

W&L at RMWC, 7 p.m.

W&L at Catholic, 2 p.m.
Men’s Basketball

Grove City at W&L, 6 pm.

® TOYOTA

Celica-
The Inside Story  

On the outside, -it's easy to see that Celica is racetrack
inspired. But the real excitement is on the inside...under the
V hood. Take the Celica GT—S...Toyota worked with Yamaha to
build a 180 HP engine redlined at 7800 RPM...equipped it
with Variable Valve Timing with inteIligence...a computer
that constantly monitors and retunes your engineifoir maxi-
mum performance...a cam with two sets of lobes to provide Driving 3 new Toyota is easier than ever ..
two ranges of valve lift and duration for more usable horse—  ’
power. There’s direct ignition for greater reliability... b€CE1U5€ n0W YOUFTOYOG dealer ha” 5l3€Clal C0“€8€ gladuale
;r;d;um_t;pped Spark plugs for reduced mamtenancema financing program available thru Toyota Financial Services
stainless steel exhaust manifold...a water~cooled oil cooler. that Offers 3 iot of great adVa”la8e5-
And mated with Toyota's 4—speed electronically~Controlled
automatic ”Sportshift”, you get transmission shift switches
on the steering,wheel...just like Formula 1 race cars. Sweet.

www.gettoyota.com p

So if you're within 4 months of graduation... or if you graduated
within the past two years...See your Toyota dealer for details.

