 

 

   

Y‘ .1

.p37gn5S
K 552.

v M) ‘V

V’\0r

v .   §Ah3§4 %

JAMES G. LEYBUHM LIBRARY
‘.Né.k.SH.tt\§iZlTON  LE UNNRSITY

lﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 104, NO. 4

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 21, 2001

Area teens

harass students

By Latrina Stokes

STA FF WRITER

A Some W&L students living on North Randolph Street have
had to deal with what they describe as “little holy terrors.”

The group consists of several children, all under the age
of sixteen, alleged to have harassed, provoked and threat-
ened the students living there.

Senior Sarah Pollan said that the situation has gotten pro-
gressively worse.

0 “The problem started with us having to walk past their
house to get to school,” Pollan said. And, for no reason,
Pollan said that the kids started to yell Obscenities at her and
her roommates some months ago.

“They were yelling in such a way that you knew they
were talking to you but you didn’t know why,” she said,
adding that she did not know of any students provoking
them. '

Her roommate said that some of the children threw rocks
at her when she and others walked past them.

“They were just being mischievous,” Pollan said.

But their actions became more serious. Pollan maintains
that the oldest recently tried to throw gasoline on her.

I Some others told her roommate that the “crazy man” was
going-to kill her. In this case, no one could be arrested be-
cause the “crazy man” was an unknown third party.

The kids became violent one night, as senior Katy
Harding can attest. She and two others had been shot in
the rear end with BB guns, but they did not know which
of the kids had done it.

“All of us are scared out of our minds,” Harding said.

The police told Pollan that she could buy a BB gun and
shoot back in self defense, if she really wanted.

Enough was enough, so students banded together to get
the group evicted.

Harding encouraged others to contact the owner of
the house, Paul M. Penick, a lawyer in Lexington, social
services and the Health Department. She also encour-
aged them to call the police, though many students feel
like they have not done enough.

The fact that the supposed offenders are juveniles, how-
ever, has been a problem. Students said that the police were
"as frustrated as they are.

“I hope we can bring this under control because it’s not
good,” Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard said.

Despite his unwillingness to discuss details, Beard said »

that the department is doing something.

“We have stepped up patrol in the 100-200 block of North

Randolph Street to curb some. suspicious activity going on
.up there [since] the first of the year, possibly even back since
September,” he said.

Mike Young of security has allowed students living in the
area to use the parking garage as another safety measure.
Although the kids have irritated many, they do not threaten all
the college students on that block.

“They respond to the weather,” Harding said.

v_ From many sources, the kids seem to sit on the porch
most of the time, including during the day when they
should be in school.

“They haven’t really done anything to me or my room-
mates,” senior Carly Blakelock said. “They’re loud, but I
would bet that all the students on the street have been as
loud or louder than the ‘hoodmans.’ That’s what we’re
calling them.”

Senior Craig Benjamin has not come into any type of
confrontation with them, either, but their behavior still

disturbs him.
L “It is very scary to think that those kids are the future
of our country,” Benjamin said. As for the safety of oth-
ers, he said, “they could hurt someone, I’ve seen them
whomp on each other with rakes and other assorted gar-
den tools.”

“Even though I’m only here another couple of weeks, I

hope they get evicted,” Benjamin said.

24/7: W&L’s WicI«:I<i.Y cAi.I«:Ni)Aiz

 

Today .

7 p.m.——Javapa1ooza Fighting Gravity. BDG Quad
Tuesday, May 22

All Day——Junior Web Registration

All Day—Atliletic Awards Ceremony. Dinneron the From
Lawn after ceremony. Lee Chapel.

. 8 p.m.—Faculty—student production. “Mandragola,” di-
rected by Domnica Radulescu. Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Wednesday, May 23

All Day—’Sophomore Web Registration

6 p.m.——Senior Night. Lee Chapel. (rain site: Evans Dining
Hall)

8 p.m.—Faculty—student production. “Mandragola,” di-
rected by Domnica Radulescu. Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Thursday, May 24

All Day-—Freshman Web Registration
‘ 8 p.m.—Faculty—student production. “Marrdragola,” di-
rected by Domriica Radulescu. Johnson Theater, Lenfest

~‘ Friday, May 25 '
. 5 p.m.-——Gal1ery Reception. “four years,” photos by Emily
Barnes, ‘01. duPontGalleiy.

8p.m—'Iheatre Series. “Cornpany.”Kel1erTl1eatre,Ler1fest
Satmday, May 26

8prrL—'lheatre Series. “Cornpany.”Keller'lheatIe,Ix:rifest

Center.

Sunday, May 27

- 2pm———'Iheatre Series. “Cornpany.”Keller’Iheatre,Lenfest

Center. .

    

p 0 o by Mary Guy/photo e not

A MAIION AND Ins CAR. Mahon inspects his automobile forvdamages after skidding across
Washington street and into the Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad.

x

 

photo by Meg Ferrara/staff photographer
..._OH, MAHON! (left to right) Security Ofﬁcer Dan Rexrode directs traffic after
the accident, Mahon explains the situations to Security, Lexington police
arrive on the scene, the accident’s sole casualty remains.

Profsor rashs in BDG Quad

By Matthew McDermott

EDITOR IN CHIEF

James Mahon, an associate philosophy professor, was
thrown for a whirl Wednesday after his red 1991 Chevrolet
Camaro swerved off Washington Street to hit the lamppost
in the Baker—Davis—Gilliam Quad.

“The ground was wet,” Mahon said. “I slid across it.”

The accident happened at about 5:10  in front of the Gra-
ham-Lees donnitory, drawing a number of witnesses.

“I heard a loud noise, so I went out of my dorm to see
what was happening,” said freshman Jonathan Browder, a
Baker resident. “There were a lot of people outside.”

The single vehicle accident left Mahon unharmed.

“He told our (Philosophy of Law) class that he forgot to
take his foot off the accelerator,” a student in the Phil 258
class explained. “And he described how he made a 720
(degree turn) around the lamp post.”

The two—seater sports car , which bears the personal-
ized license plate “JEMAHON,” suffered deep scratches to
its door, though the chassis and cabin remain intact.

For many, Mahon’s distinctive car has become a fa-
miliar site on campus.

“I always thought it looked more like a C-school
professor’s car,” said freshman Thomas Smitherman,
a former student of Mahon.

photo by Mary Guy/photo editor

 

photo by Mary Guy/photo editor

    

photo by Mary Guy/photo editor

Trusteesact on ATF proposal

0 By Michelle Lally 

S In FF WRITER

Student leaders met with the Board
of Trustees’ Campus Life Committee’
Saturday morning to discuss the Alco-
hol Task Force’s proposed alcohol ini-
tiatives, the Student Judicial Council’s
objections to them and the newly en-
acted IFC regulations.

The SJC contended that the ATF
policy infringes on its discretion and
jurisdiction by mandating penalties in
accordance with a three—strike system.

The SJC recommended developing
additional programs for counseling
and alcohol education. It suggested
that students violating alcohol polices
receive punishments that serve the
W&L community, such as obligatory
Live Drive work or sober bartending
at social functions.

The SJC opposes the provision for
parental notification of alcohol related
transgressions. An SJ C memo describes
the ATF policy as “largely vague and
quite repetitive,” “the result of the over-
all lack of student input.”

The 12 members of the Campus Life
Committee spent over two hours dis-
cussing the ATF recommendations,
asking questions of the student repre-
sentatives and expressing their opin-
ions of the proposed policy.

SJC Chair Shane Saunders said the
Trustees were split in their opinion of

W&L talks (sex, food, law

the ATF policy. Although some trust-
ees said the policy was creating a li-
ability document and not outlining an
effort to reduce alcohol problems, oth-
ers favored the new system.

The meeting came to a head,
said Saunders, during a 30-minute
discussion of the penalties for un-
derage drinking. One trustee noted
that 75 perceiit of incoming fresh-
men drink, making three fourths of
the class eligible for expulsion un-
der the policy.

The SJC triumphed with the re-
working of the language regarding
DUIs. Earlier versions of the ATF
document called for suspensions for
students arrested for driving under the
inﬂuence. The edited version of the
policy only allows punishment for DUI
convictions.

Other battles over the ATF pro-
posal, however, were lost by student
representatives. Despite the SJC’s
objections, said Saunders, the three-
strike system and the parental noti-
fication are in.

The lack of discussion on tailgates
indicates trustee approval of the new
restrictions regarding the event, said
Saunders.

“Tailgates are done as we know
them,” he said. ‘

Also discussed was the red line
document, a faculty edited version of
the ATF proposal. Trustees on the

By Alison Trinidad

NEWS EDITOR

Three separate panel discussions invitedlthe W&L
community to share its opinions about social topics

as they relate to W&L culture.

Although turnout at each ranged from 10 to 30
people, the sponsoring organizations were pleased

by the diversity of issues covered.

Management Professor Roger Dean, a Rockbiidge resident,
facilitated LILACS’ second annual open forum about local law
enforcement last Wednesday. LILACS is a student organiza-

' tion dedicated to encourage town—gown relations. Although
attendance was lower than last year’s, Dean said the forum
addressed alcohol use, illegal drug use and student rights re-
garding search and seizure in dorms and fraternity houses..

“Students may not have liked the answers,” he said, “but at
least they left knowing the legal issues involved.”

Ofﬁcer Roger D. Clark and Lieutenant Steve Crowder of
the Lexington Police Department, Investigator Steve
Funkhouser of the Rockbridge Sheriffs Office and Mike
Young of W&L Security were on the panel.

Senior Jenna Poole and sophomore Mary Carol Mazza de-
cided that a panel discussion would be the best way to raise
awareness about and present the results of their research on
eating disorders. Sponsored by LIFE and the FLC, the Wedries—
day talk was the first st1rdent—led discussion about eating atW&L.

‘This panel shared with us their pains, struggles, set-backs,
challenges and successes in a very open way,” said W&L
Health Educator Jan Kaufman.

The Dell Center asked Women’s Forum and LIFE to
help plan their discussion, “Sex and the College Stu-
dent,” on Thursday. It was the last of a series of discus-
sions sponsored by the Delt Center, which included one
on diversity and moving into the future.

The four students on the panel shared their beliefs on sex
and the hook—up culture at W&L. They discussed the differ-
ence between healthy and unhealthy sex and how diﬂerent
deﬁnitions of “hooking—up” lead to confusion. Questions about
date rape and sexual assault also played into the discussion.

"Ihere is an alarmingly high rate of rape on our campus
because (the Greek and alcohol scene at W&L),” said Women’s
Forlim Co—president Amanda Adams. “I don’t think it’s spoken
about much and we need to start talking about it on campus.”

Campus Life Committee were dis-
pleased to discover that EC and SJC
representatives did not know the
document existed.

The meeting marked the last step
in student involvement with the
ATF proposals. “At this point our
hands are tied and they’re going to
do whatever they decide to do,”
Saunders said.

The Board will release its com-
prehensive policy statement later
this week.

According to the Blue Book, the
constitution of the SJC, the SJC has
jurisdiction over all student trans-
gressions not involving lying,
cheating, stealing, sexual miscon-
duct or hazing.

Furthermore, it states that any
changes to Blue Book policy, which
include alcohol-related infractions,
must be approved by a majority of
the SJC, the Student Affairs Com-
mittee and the faculty.

With the ATF policy, the admin-
istration decided to sidestep the
student government bodies of the
SJC and SAC, leaving the approval
of the new policy solely to faculty
and trustees.

Trustee and faculty votes will
both take place before the end of the
month, so that changes in the alco-
hol policy may be made prior to the
2001-2002 school year.

 

 

PAGE 2

Ellis iliing-tum iﬂlri

  OPINION

MAY 21, 2001

Hey, Office, leave us kids alone

Contrary to popular belief, living the charmed life of a
college student does not foster utter and mindless stupid-
ity. I swear to God, everyone—the administration, our par-
ents, and Lexington Police——underestimate us to no end.
It is unduly aggravating to defend my intelligence and
common sense to a higher-up who perpetually dismisses
it. It’s like telling a psychologist you’re really not crazy
only for him to respond with pretentious dignity that, “How
would you know? You’re crazy.”

A prime example of my disgusted frustration manifested
itself last week, during a night that I will hereby refer to as
“My Night of Sober Driving Hell.” I hadn’t been planning
on sober driv-
ing, but some-

or[hema’s Bgposupe one asked ifI
_ _ , could “just
Kns Polhna 03 quickly run
her home,” to
which I was more than happy to oblige. What ensued was
a scene straight from My Cousin Wnny, when the two
guys think they’re arrested for stealing tuna ﬁsh, while
they’re actually being arrested for murder. No sooner had
I ﬁnished dropping her off than I saw the proverbial blue
lights in my rear view mirror. I vaguely murmured some
obscenities under my breath, assuming I was going over
the very rational speed limit of 25 miles per hour.

“License and registration.”

“I don’t know where the registration is, this isn’t my
car.”

“Please step out of the vehicle.”

So I’m on the side of the road, across from VMI’s
football ﬁeld, where every W&L student and their mother
is driving past, when the cop asks me (exact quote) “ex-
actly how long have you been drunk driving around Lex-
ington?”

“Excuse me?”

“How many hours? Roughly.”

“Zero.”

I don’t what gave me the idea that I could be a smart
ass, maybe it was because I knew I was sober. Then he
asked me to explain why I “reeked of alcohol.” (An-
other exact quote.) That inquiry was just enormously
humorous. Was he trying to trick me into admitting I
was drunk? “Ok, you got me. I didn’t think you’d smell
the alky, but, yeah, I’m wasted.” Then he proceeded to
lecture me on the detriments of drunk driving and how
perilous it was, and how many lives I’ve endangered.

After about the fourteenth time of professing my so-
briety, I begged and pleaded for a breathalyzer. I blew a

ote of the Week:

6 C:
A science major sees
this and says, “How pro-
found.” A C—School
major says, “I could
put that on a T—shirt and
make money.”

—— Dean Steve Desjardins, pointing
to a fractal, to his chemistry class ’ ,

 

@112 Ring-tum lﬁlri

Editor in Chief Matt McDermott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Opinion Editor Brett T. Kirwan
W&Life Editor Amy Blevins
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor Katie Howell
Photo Editor Mary Guy

Staﬁ‘ Photographer Meg Ferrara

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 pm.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subscription rate: $30

BUSTED. Police officers should respect students, not use them as hood ornaments.

zero (who’s the big winner?), to which the unnamed cop
responded something to the effect of “Whoa! Look at
the time! I gotta go pull over another innocuous college
student.” Well, not really, but what pissed me off the
most was the fact that when I asked him why he pulled
me over, it was because he thought I just looked like a
drunk driver.

We are so underestimated. Even when we do the right
thing, they think the worst. There’s no escape from this

curtesy of Yahoo! Picture Gallery

preconceived notion of adolescent irresponsibility. The
more we protest our competency, the more restrictions are
put on our ability to prove it. I know I sound like a whiny
guest on Ricki Lake who just “wants to live her own life,”
but seriously, we’re not idiots. And though the adminis-
tration thankfully acknowledges this by entertaining an
autonomous governing system, maybe they could trust
our judgement in other regions as well. I’m not as drunk as
you think I am, ofﬁcer.

LETTER To THE EDITOR--—

Multilingual society is

America’s asset

Dear Editor,

I often disagree with my fellow fraternity brother, Brett
Kirwan, in his weekly articles in the Phi. However, I have
yet to feel compelled to actually make my opinions on his
writings known to others until I read last week’s article on
Bush’s Cinco de Mayo address. I won’t even begin to
mention how humorous I thought his statement about this
being Bush’s “ﬁrst noticeable mistake of his otherwise bril-
liant administration” was. But, I will say that I think brilliant
is a bit strong. We are just out of the 100-day honeymoon,
and now is when the fun begins.

What I do not understand is how Kirwan can ﬁnd any
outreach on the part of the GOP to minorities to be a rnis—
take. To be quite honest, if the party could ﬁnd a way to
rally support from both their strong conservative, predomi-
nately white following and a large portion of each of
America’s many minority populations, the Democrats would
be hard pressed to beat them in any election. As for this
outreach being misdirected, how else do you make an out-
reach to citizens who do not speak English unless you
speak their language? Apparently Kirwan must think our
Statue of Liberty reads, “Give me your tired, your poor/
Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free/ The wretched
refuse of your teeming shore, as long as they speak En-
glish.” The fact of the matter remains that the United States
does not have an ofﬁcial language. If this displeases you,
call your local GOP headquarters and tell them you would
like them to propose that as a new law. However, I do be-
lieve this will greatly hinder Bush’s outreach to minorities.

Now I understand that there are numerous other citi-
zens speaking different languages and the argument is if
you start speaking one, then you must speak another.
However, I’m sure Bush’s address was significant to the
numerous bilingual citizens in our nation who are mem-
bers of what is now America’s largest minority popula-
tion. The bilingual Hispanic citizens are also a huge as-
set and a large part of the American work force. As for
the fact that New York had to spend $1.1 million on 911
translators, I do believe it was more than just Spanish

 

translators. Are you aware of how many different lan-
guages are spoken in New York City alone?

Moreover, I will join Kirwan in saying that our school
systems are not adequately addressing the problem of
America’s heterogeneous population. We need an educa-
tional system that uses programs to quickly and effec-
tively educate school children that do not speak English
to do so. However, English speaking school children
should be taught another language as well, such as Span-
ish. European children are taught multiple languages in
school because Europeans have an appreciation for their
multilingual society. Kirwan states our schools should
cultivate a sense of nationalism and pride in American
culture in our students. I agree with him, but realize that
we live in a multilingual society. It should be taught that
this is not a problem, rather it is a healthy change to America
that makes it a strong part of the global community. This
realization can better America’s international relations with
other parts of the world, aid America in its participation in
the global economy, and better ready our students to
function in a world that keeps growing smaller.

Kirwan writes of past generations’ successful assimila-
tion into American society. These immigrants were brought
into an America very different than today. Immigrants of
today should be taught to function in an America that is full
of differences, but also united by its differences. I dislike
Kirwan’s use of the words “differences” and “divisions” in
the same sentence. This sounds like the attitude of school
children afraid of the new student who is different. If you
want to talk about pandering, America too often panders to
those upset by the differences of those around them. I also
dislike the use of the word “assimilation.” Assimilation
into what? We live in a country where people can no longer
be placed into the mold of nuclear family where the mother
stays at home in Suburbia and the father brings the bread
home to the 2.5 kids and a dog named Lucky. There’s a
difference in assimilation and being made into a successful
part of society. I think this was the focus of Bush’s Cinco
de Mayo address, and it is one of the things he has done so
far in his time the White House that I can praise.

Sincerely,
Nick Ramsey

  
      
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
   

 What is best about the VMI cadets’ absence?

 

 

“Maybe they’ll stop firing
the canons.”
-Bryant Adams ‘0l

“No more cadets running 1
through campus.”
--Elizabeth Loyd ’04

—Casey Nixon ‘02

 

“I could care less. I don’t
talk to them anyway.”

 

“More pizza after the 5 :00 Mass.”
-Maryisa Golubiewska ‘O4

 

     

MAY 21, 2001

 2 ﬂing-tum ilﬂhi

:W&L enjoys week of music

  >((
I had no idea that We have such
A great singers at our school.
It was Very uplifting.
’# — Jess Taylor

,. if

   

   
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
  

photos by Mary Guy/photo editor
Goon 01.1) GOSPEL MUSIC. Sophomore Justin Huston leads the

, it gospel choir, Joyful Noise, in song in Lee Chapel at the
Gospel Fest Saturday evening.

{(

(We) were extremely sastisﬁed

with the community interest.
We Value the Red House
and the way it allows us

to stage cultural events.
— Professor Janet Ikeda

J}

 

ﬁr . .
BoN DANCING. China-Japan Day festivities Saturday included

traditional dress and ceremonial dancing.
K

A

(K

‘ The guest choirs brought diversity
)1 and devotion, adding their voices

' to the feel of the night as a whole.
— Adam Mayer

* :2

TUITIUN HNANEING

 

TaX— deferred solutions
from TIAA— CREF can
help you reach your

retirement goals faster.

 

When you're investing for retirement, the adage 1-Ax DEFEI-.mA|_ MAKE5 A n":|:EHEN[E
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today”
doesn't apply to taxes. $102,068

Tax~dcfei-red savings after taxes’

  
  
   

That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes
can add up to significantly more money for you— ‘ $67,514
money you can use to supplement your pension and  
Social Security.

After—tax savings

\‘

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax -
deferral, or call us for a free tax—savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAS), lRAs and

other tax—saving so|utions—along with T|AA—CREF's $100 per month form?‘ his

 
  
  
  
  
  
 

low expenses and solid history of performance——can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $l00 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reflect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reflect expenses.

A A Ensuring the future
for those who shape it."‘

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa-cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. - TIAA-CREF Individual and institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, inc. distribute securities products.
- Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. - TlAA—CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—Co||ege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04

 
   
   
 
    

 

L Generals . all in NCA iqpuarterﬁals

PAGE 4

u

L‘ . By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Defending national champion'Trinity took two of three
doubles matches for an early 2-1 lead, never looking back
as they knocked Washington and Lee out of the NCAA
Division III Women’s Tennis Championships in San An-
tonio on Friday with a 7-2 quarterfinal win.

Sophomore Brandi Jane Wedgoewoith defeated Emily
Jacobs at fifth—seed singles 6-2, 7-5, and junior Sallie Gray
Strang and sophomore Laura Bruno topped Jacobs and
Laura Cumming 9-8 (7-4) at second—seed doubles for the
Generals’ only wins on the day. ‘ _

Strang, one of the team’s captains, was pleased with
the effort of her team despite the loss.

“I think we played alright,” said Strang, whose team ‘

lost to ‘Trinity 5-4 during the Fab Five Toumameht in San
Antonio on March 3 1. “It deﬁnitely wasn’t our best match
of the season. In general, theirlplayers were playing bet-
ter. I

“Their lineup was a little bit different, too, so that also
had something to do with it. They just played betterithan
we did on Friday.” ,-

Bruno felt that the Generals‘ would have had a shot at
advancing, had they taken at least two of the matches in
doubles competition. , ' I

“We really needed to win the doubles,” Bruno ‘said.
“Last time we had our opportunities with the doubles, but
this time they didn’t even let us in the door.

“They just came out really strong, and had the momen-
tum right from the start.” i _

With the win, the Tigers eliminated W&L from the
tournament for the second consecutive year. ‘ The
Generals lost to Trinity 6-3 in a national semifinal
last year before rebounding to top Amherst 5-4 in
the consolation match. ‘

In singles competition, Lizzie Yasser topped jun-

i
, 2
' v
:4 ‘ ‘,'
’ v
v

.‘

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS  

MAY 21, 2001

DowN AROUND SAN ANTONE. Junior Melissa Hatley and the Generals fell to Trinity
NCAA Division III quarterfinals on Friday.‘ Hatley and sophomore Erika Proko remain in San
Antonio to participate in the Women?s Tennis’ Singles and Doubles Championships.

Abbe Ulrich handed sophomore Alyson Brice a 6-3, 7-
5 loss at No. 4 singles, and Cumming blanked freshman Liz
Law 6-0, 6-0 at the sixth slot. ' ’ 

Yasser and Ulrich defeated Hatley and Proko 8-1 at No.

I 1 doubles, and Smith and Baldwin topped Law and classw

mate Ellie Simpson 8-0 at N 0.3.
Despitetlhe quarterﬁnal exit, Strang was pleased with the

,way the season progressed for the Generals, particularly'af— :

ter the loss of their top two singles players. Erin Eggers and

ior Melissa Hatley 6-4, 6-3 at the No. 1 spot. Lindsay V Brook Haitzell graduated as All—Americans in 2000.

Smith defeated sophomorélErika Proko 6-2, 6-0 at the
No. 2 slot, and Lindsey Baldwin knocked off Bruno
6-3,,6—3 at No. 3. . -

;,

‘fliosing your top two players, everybody expects you to not
have as good a year,” Strang said. “I think that just by making it
to the quarterﬁnals, we deﬁnitely had a good season.”

A Successful season ends for W&L

Despite their relative inexperience, the Generals fin- “

 

 

Ring-tm Phi File hoto
REGIONAL FINALISTS. Junior Rhys James and the
W &L rnen’s tennis team were 12-5 in 2001.‘?

By Ian R. Mcllroy A

SPORTS WRITER

r

U . .

With only two starters returning from last year’s team,
the Washington and Lee men’s,tennis team nearly started
from scratch this season.

With three freshmen in the top six positions, the team
had plenty of talent, yet lacked much experience at the
collegiate level. In a preseason poll, however, the Gener-
als were ranked 25th in the nation for Division IH.

1

ished the year with a 12-5 record, posting a mark of 6-0
against Old Dominion Athletic Conference opponents.

At the ODAC Tournarrient, held on April 20-21 in
Lynchburg, the Generals captured their 20th ODAC cham-
pionship in the last 25 years. The Generals also swepgthe
toprnament for the ﬁrst time in 12 years, taking the cham-
pionship of all six singles and all three doubles ﬂights.

Last weekend, at the Division III South Atlantic Re-
gional Tournament, the Generals performed well. On Sat-
urday, the fifth-seeded Generals upset Swaithmore 4-_ 1.

“The victory over Swarthmore shows the team’s ini-I’
provement throughout the year, especially our three fresh-
men (Austin Kim, Graham Nix, and KC. Schaefer),” head
coach David Detwiler said. “(Swarthmore) had barely

‘T beaten us (4-3) in our first meeting.” ' ' ‘ ~

On Sunday, W&L ended its season with a 4-0 loss to host
and second seed Washington College. Nevertheless, the
Generals remain proud of their accomplishments this yean

“In the regular season, we took advantage of our
chance to play top teams and moved up the rankings,”
junior and number-twosingles player Andrew Roberts
said. “We didn’t have any really disappointing losses,
just missed opportunities.” ,, 4 -

With this season behind them, the Generals have al-
ready begun their preparations for next year.

‘,‘Our team has a lot to work on over the summer,” said
junior Rob Moynihan, who plays at number—six singles.
“Down the line, we all need to improve our serves and our
conditioning.” ‘ I

Fortunately, the team graduates no seniors next year.

“Our six juniors (Roberts, Moynihan, Rhys James, Zac
Vuncannon, John Colfry, and Bobby‘ Reitinger) have
shown exceptional leadership all year long and will con-
tinue to next year,” Detwiler said. “The team has the abil-
ity to finish in the top two in the region and advance to the
national ‘ﬁnal eight’ for Division III next season.”

‘the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

v.

Rmg-tum Phz File Photo

7-2 in the

With all of their top singles and doubles players re-
turning next year, Bruno believes that the Generals are in
good shape for another run in the spring.

“We have the makings for a good team,” Bruno said.
“We’re not losing anybody, so all we can do is get better.
We’ll put it all together next year, and hopefully go a little
bit farther in the tournament.”

Hatley and Proko will remain in San Antonio to compete in
the Women’s Tennis Singles and Doubles Championships.
Both have been selected to participate innsingles and doubles
eompetition, which will take place today through Wednesday.

W&L finished the season 20-3, including a 10-0 markin

NEXT WEEK on THE
SPORTS PAGE...

THE RING-TUM PHI
END-OF-YEAR AWARDS.

JAVAPALOOZA Eaanrs
rieiarine earti/rrY

‘ ‘‘If the songwriting approach of the'Dave
, Matthews Band were to absorb the upbeat
rhythms of world-beat and reggae, the result
‘ could sound like Fighting Gravity”
' —Billboard Magazine, June 1999

 

“McGee-—whos'e velvety, soulful vocals
at times re’call former English Beat singer
Dave Wakeling. . .Fighting Gravity’s songs

are infectious and upbeat”
‘ -Rolling Stone Magazine, December 1998

-     MAY 21
7:30-to RM.  
entree-Dar/is-eittinn QUAD

Java will be serving hot and cold coffee drinks, as well as ice crea
 from SWEET THINGS. 

I
7‘.

_ Bring a blanket and bring yourifriends
   for a‘ music-ﬁlled night under the stars!

3-,

5:}

-‘».—&.i--«k~<-",—-+§-,- {\ , 444- .—..L .!-..«..h. 4%.. E} E. .   ._ .g_E, .. .._,“,,. , , .

-+ -- -+~ae-+¢- 4.-

¥

1*

i_:r_._L;., E._,,_;&_r

