 

U112 "ﬂting-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

iii”!

..?At.tE4£ «:3 meta»; Liam av
‘vVA8?'~':7‘/"ifR
' ‘ '7 *3 ~ 63"!‘ \‘I, gmgg

Y 102001

   

VOLUME 104, No.I3—

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 7, 2001

 

  

National leadership group
honors three W&L supporters

An engineer and physicist, a prominent Lexing-
ton attorney and one of the country’s leading in-
surance executives were honored as Omicron Delta
Kappa inductees at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Thursday evening.

Robert E. Akins, a W&L physics professor, Albert
J. Beveridge HI, president of the George C. Marshall
Foundation, and Clay T. Jackson, president of a N ash-
ville insurance company, were welcomed into the na-
tional leadership fraternity that was founded at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1914. --Courtesy W&L website

W&L Athletics Department

buys new workout equipment

The P.E. Department has purchased nine new fit-
ness machines for the aerobic workout rooms in
Doremus Gymnasium and Games Hall.

“There really weren’t enough machines for the
number of people in the school in the past and
many of the machines have been breaking down,”
said University Athletic Committee member and
senior Kathleen Moroney. “The addition of the
new machines will be great for the new fitness cen-
ter and Gaines Hall. 1 think it’s great that the fac-
ulty and trustees have been so quick to satisfy
the students’ concerns.”

The new machines were funded by contributions
to the University for new equipment to be used in
the new fitness center, which will begin construc-
tion in the summer. The machines will stay in Doremus
Gymnasium and Gaines Hall until the completion of
the new fitness center.

Three LifeCycle 9500 stationary bikes, two Tectrix
Climb Max 150 stairmasters, two PreCor USA C964i
treadmills and two PreCor USA EFX 546 elliptical ma-
chines are included in the athletic department pur-
chase. Four machines have been placed in Gaines Hall,
while the other five pieces have been added to the
aerobic room in Doremus Gymnasium.

Ruby Tuesday may come to
Rockbridge County area

Plans for a Ruby Tuesday Restaurant to come to
the area were discussed at last week’s Rockbridge
County Planning Commission meeting.

Director of Planning and Zoning Sam Crickenberger
said he is looking over a site plan to have the restau-
rant built next to the Wingate Hotel on US. 11, just
past the Interstate 64 interchange.

A decision about site plan approval is expected
within the next few weeks.

VMI bookstore now run
by Barnes & Noble

Barnes and Noble took over Virginia Military
Institute’s bookstore a week and a half ago from
Wallace’s Bookstores Inc.

Wallace’s had been operating the store for the
past six years. Although Wallace’s had submitted
a proposal to renew its contract, VMI chose to
contract Barnes & Noble.

The three—year contract with Barnes and Noble can
be extended to run six years.

 

24/7: W&L’s WEEKLY CALENDAR

Today
4:30 p.m.—Faculty meeting. Northern Auditorium

7 p.m.—Javapalooza. Greenhouse featuring Burr
Datz. Baker—Davis—Gilliarn Quad.

'IlIesday,May8
4 p.m.--Lecture, women@work series. Dr.
KimMarie McGoldrick. “Beginning Mentoring

Now.” Reception to follow. Room 220, Williams
School.
Thursday, May 10

7:30 p.m.—Lecture, Phi Beta Kappa Visiting
Scholar series. Dr. Lawrence D. Bobo. “A Color-
Line for the 2 1 st Century? Laissez—faire Racism and
the Status of African Americans.” Room 214, Sci-
ence Center.

8 p.m.—-Senior Recital. Scott Meister, trumpet.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.
Friday, May 11

12 p.m.—Luncheon Lecture. women@work se-
ries. Katherine Schipper. Reservations required.
‘Room 220, Williams School.

7:30 p.m.— Film Society. David Mamet Festival.
“The Spanish Prisoner” ( 1997). Troubador Cinema.

_ Saturday, May 12

All Day—Nabors Service Day. Brunch to com-
memorate Jonathan Nabors, volunteer projects con-
tinue until 4 p.m.

7:30 p.m.— Film Society. David Mamet Festival.
“State and Main” (2000). Troubador Cinema.

10 p.m.—Band party. Ingram Hill at Beta Theta Pi.

Sunday, May 13

All Day-—Mother’s Day.

2:30 p.m.—Law Commencement. Front Lawn.

8 p.m.—Senior Recital. Brooke deRosa, soprano.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

NOTES

 

 

Students 1'9-30131‘

By Alison Trinidad

News EDITOR

Three strikes and you’re out? No way,
say Washington and Lee students.

In an open forum held last Wednes-
day, about 100 students questioned the
need for more stringent University alco-
hol policies, fearing that approval of rec-
ommended policies would drive students
away in more ways than one.

“If you start making it not fun here, the
reputation of W&L will suffer,” said sec-
ond—year law student D. Wes Harnmit.

“(This) changes the entire face of
what appealed to me about W&L,”
agreed one freshman female.

According to the Princeton Review,
“beer and liquor ﬂow like water” on week-
ends and “outside of the classroom, ‘drink-
ing is the basic social interaction’” at W&L.

The policies, drafted by the Alcohol
Task Force, are intended to turn the faucet
off or at least reduce it to a trickle.

The recommendations suggest more
education and counseling and a three—strike
penalty program for students and Greek or-
ganizations violating school or state alco-
hol laws. Violations include drunk driving,
alcohol—related convictions and supply of
alcohol to minors. If approved, three strikes
within one year of the ﬁrst would mean a
student’s expulsion or an organization’s full-
year suspension from the University.

The next open forum is scheduled for
Wednesday, May 9 in Northen Auditorium.

After a series of open forums in the next
two weeks, President John Elrod will present
the amended recommendations to the Board
of Trustees. From there, the Trustees will
develop an all—encompassing policy state-
ment on substance abuse at W&L. Elrod
will then put the recommendations up to fac-
ulty vote on May 28. If approved by fac-
ulty, the policies will go back to the Board of
Trustees for ﬁnal review. Implementation is
planned to begin by Fall Term 2001.

Elrod created the Task Force last No-
vember to study the alcohol culture at
Washington and Lee. The creation of the
Task Force immediately followed junior
Adam Burchett and freshman Kristin
Shelton’s deaths in a single-vehicle crash
after attending several fraternity parties last
October. Authorities later determined alco-
hol was a contributing factor to the acci-
dent.

.v- 

 

photo by Mary Guy/photo editor

STANDING ROOM ONLY. Students fill Northen Auditorium to discuss harsher penalties for alcohol violations.

The Task Force’s emphasis on disci-
pline coupled with the time of its creation
lead some to see the proposed penalties
as too reactionary.

“That’s how it exactly would appear,”
said Dean of Students and Administrative
Task Force Facilitator David Howison.

Howison said the situation seems reac-
tionary to someone unaware of the school’s
past attempts to control alcohol abuse.

“There was hard work being done be-
fore that accident,” he said, referring to
the comprehensive research into alcohol
use at W&L by the Alcohol Steering Com-
mittee, which began more than three years
ago, in November 1997.

The Steering Committee’s chair, Trustee
and_Task_Force Member Edward L. Bishop,
III, ’66, told the Alumni Board this week-
end that the Steering Committee had three
goals: education, counseling and discipline.
He said the Steering Committee addressed
education and counseling well but left dis-
cipline relatively untouched.

The Task Force focused more on dis-
cipline because it had not been ad-
equately dealt with before, Howison said.

Most criticism was directed at the
proposal’s vague wording, seemingly mis-
guided “scare-tactics” and call for paren-
tal notiﬁcation.

Inter-fraternity Council President Quincy
Springs asked the Task Force for more time
to allow IFC initiatives to prove their effi-
cacy. The IFC initiated its own ﬁve-step pro-
gram last January, which puts student self-
discipline above anything else. Springs and
other IFC members presented statistics that
imply their system is already working to re-
duce fraternity—related alcohol violations.

Other students argued that if student
safety were the most important concern,
making Live Drive and Safe Ride a 24/7 pro-
gram would be more effective than threat-

ening suspension. The Task Force, in fact,_

helped extend the Live Drive program, which
now uses University vehicles, defined
routes and paid drivers and assistants.
Physics Professor and Task Force Co-
Chair H. Thomas Williams believes students
need to face the reality of their actions.
“It’s time for (the cushion) to go away,”
he said. “We want to remind students that
the University is not a shield from the law.”

Williams empathized with the students’
defensive attitude but regretted the direc-
tion of their complaints.

“Some of the student reaction was pre-
dictable,” he said, “(but) I wish the students
would’ve focused more on the abusive be-
havior (which calls for) the sanctions.”

Echoing previous remarks at the forum,
Springs asked the audience if W&L really
wanted to return to the rule—based culture
that Robert E. Lee had replaced with an
honor-based culture.

Although Howison did not respond at
the forum, he later said, “in any culture we
live in, were responsible for our behavior.”

Reﬂecting on the discussion, the majority
of people who attended said it went smoothly.

“It was good that we finally got some
student opinion,” said junior Kate Reeves.
“It was a good forum, but we need to see
more of them.”

Williams said the dialogue was the most
important outcome of the forum.

“It’s the conversations that are useful,”
he said. “If (the students) get a voice, they
can bring change that’s already here, just
not hear .”

‘4 Si  UNiVEjHS_lT{

WLUR moves

By Latrina Stokes

STAFF WRITER

 

Dr. Alan Stewart

The nasl WEEK'S QIIBSI IBGIIIIBIS . . .

 

Mik Ris

“The Simpsons" producer Novelist

photos by Meg Ferrara/staff photographer

 

Tm W e

Folger Library Fellow

University radio station WLUR will soon relocate from
Reid Hall to the Women’s Center in the University Center.

Station Manager Nick Ramsey said that it will stay there
for the next two years, ultimately moving to the new Uni-
versity Commons.

The costly relocation of the station’s transmitter to an
area near the Student Activities Pavilion will temporarily
put it out of service.

Bob de Maria, journalism professor and WLUR’s su-
pervisor, said that waiting on the Federal Communications
Commission to approve the new location will keep the
station down until sometime in fall. It would take at least
90 days for the Commission to act, but would probably
require more time, he said.

That means that students will not be able to listen to
WLUR until at least midterm.

Although she was familiar with the shows and DJ s, sopho-
more Sara Rafferty said she now listens to  only “ran-
domly,” which implies how often other students tune in as well.

Hearing of the temporary closing, several students re-
gretted that others would not be able to listen. They them-
selves, however, seemed little concerned.

“Sometimes I can’t even pick it up,” Raffety said. Although
she lives within a ﬁve-minute walk of the transmitter, Rafferty
said the station often comes in fuzzy when it does at all. She
believes poor reception is probably a major reason why stu-
dents do not support the station more.

The new transmitter should help solve that problem,
but students will have to wait until at least October or
November to find out for sure.

Sophomore Toussaint Crawford, who plays hip-hop,
said he will remain a DJ to broadcast an under—represented
genre, no matter how many people listen.

“I love my show,” he said, “so it’s very worth it.”

University ofﬁcials have taken on a similar attitude and
have chosen to invest much money in maintaining WLUR;
the exact cost has been speculated at more than a million
dollars. According to de Maria, President John Elrod and
Dean Larry Boetsch favored keeping the station because it
is such a large student activity.

Journalism 361 and 263 both incorporate radio broadcasts
in teaching reporting techniques. Besides news reports, WLUR
broadcasts live home games and cultural programs like opera.

Moving the station has long been a department goal,
de Maria said. After the move, de Maria will be freed of
his supervising responsibilities and capable of teaching
another class per semester. And WLUR will run off stu-
dent power alone.

 

 

PAGE 2

0&1}: ‘tiling-tum lﬁlrt

Bush his a 100 dy homern

So I wasn’t right about Bush’s
margin of victory. But I was right
about the man. The first hundred days
are over and they were great. In the
course of his barely three and a half
months in ofﬁce he has managed to
stare down the communist Chinese,
tell off the American Bar Association,
create a cabinet more diverse than ei-

ther of Clinton’s, give the nation a co-' 7

herent energy policy, roll back hun-
dreds of last minute Clinton regula-
tions, create momentum for a tax cut
and lead a hemisphere-wide trade con-
ference.

As promised, he truly has
changed the tone in Washington.
The chattering class is irate that
President Bush has built political
capital, is governing effectively, and
is more popular than Clinton was af-
ter his first hundred days. Bush has
proved to be an enthusiastic and op-
timistic leader who has gained con-
trol of Congress and is fearlessly
pursuing a bold conservative
agenda.

He has, however, had his share of
criticism, the most vocal of which has
been concerned with his handling of
environmental policy. Bush has com-
mitted the nation to drilling in the Arc-
tic, pushed back implementation of a
rule to decrease arsenic levels in tap

it

  

photo by Kenneth Lambert (AP)

Hrs BIGGEST FAN. The San Diego Chicken cheers for Pres. Bush at Sunday’sWhite House T-ball game.

so environmental wackos could bring
us one step closer to their vision of a
humanity—free world without actually
improving the environment.

Current arsenic levels haven’t been
shown to be any more harmful than
the proposed lower standard, but

water, and has implementation of
pulled the , _ the regulation
United States Right of the A1516 would drastically
outof the Kyoto Brett Khwan 04 increase the cost
Protocol. Demo- of running water,

crats, Hollywood liberals, and the news
media all have lambasted President
Bush for wanting to poison our chil-
dren, pollute the air, and destroy a pris-
tine and unique wilderness reserve.
Not surprisingly, these attacks are
untrue. The Kyoto Protocol would
have massively shrunk the economy
to lower carbon dioxide levels negligi-
bly. Millions would have lost their jobs

LETTER To THE EDITOR

Grades and self-

esteem not related

Dear Editor,

I am writing in response to Brett
Kirwan’s article about Take Our
Daughters to Work Day. I will not ar-
gue for, nor against, Kirwan’s central
thesis. Rather, I wish to address
Kirwan’s problematic interpretation of
the evidence concerning girls’
achievement and self—esteem.

Kirwan ﬁrst cites Gilligan’s ﬁndings
that adolescent girls lose self esteem
during adolescence. Second, he cites
U.S. Department of Education data that
girls outperform boys in “nearly every
measure of academic performance.” In
the context of the article, Kirwan seems
to be arguing that these two bodies of
evidence, and the conclusions drawn

 
   

especially for small Western commu-
nities. The cost could have been as
much as several hundred dollars per
family. In fact, Bush’s action only
moved the date for a decision on this
rule from January to July. In October,
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle
voted in support of this measure. Now
he accuses Bush of being irrespon-
sible and controlled by big business.

from them, are mutually exclusive and
inconsistent. This inconsistency,
Kirwan suggests, means that the logic
behind Take Our Daughters to Work
Day is questionable.

These two sets of conclusions are,
in fact, not necessarily inconsistent. I
am limited in my ability to argue this
point, as I have not seen the studies
themselves; a psychology professor
would be better equipped than I to
address this point. However, I will draw
from personal experience to argue that
self—esteem and academic achievement
are not perfectly correlated measures.
I have friends who performed well aca-
demically in their pre—college careers
despite destructive assaults on their
self—esteem over long periods of time
from varied sources such as abuse and
harassment in its many forms; I myself
have personally experienced this. Aca-

Editor in Chief
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor

Staff Photographer

Business Manager
Circulation Director

Ring-tum lﬂlit

Matt McDermott
Mike Agnello
Alison Trinidad
Brett T. Kirwan
Amy Blevins
Jeremy Franklin
Katie Howell
Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Staff editorials represent the opinion
of a majority of the editorial board. Letters and columns
do not reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4()-19
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/—-phi

“Sorority houses.”
—Helen Chandler ‘96

Other successes which have been
decried by the President’s critics in-
clude his handling of the Chinese
hostage situation and his decision to
scrap the ABM treaty and go forward
with building a national missile de-
fense. Although challenged as a in-
experienced state—level politician who
is uncomfortable dealing with foreign
affairs, Bush has proved to be a deft,
conﬁdent diplomat who charms world
leaders with his engaging personal-
ity.

His handling of the Chinese mat-
ter avoided loss of life without kow-
towing to the communist dictators in
Beijing. His decision to no longer ad-
here to a treaty made with a country
which no longer exists demonstrates
an understanding that our military
policy must be altered to meet the chal-
lenges of a post-Cold War world. New

threats from rogue nations, interna-
tional terrorists, and America—hating
third world dictators necessitate na-
tional missile defense.

President Bush has responded to
the challenges of his term with grace,
creativity and confidence. Although
his election was by a narrow margin,
he has governed forcefully and com-
mandingly. Although mocked as an in-
tellectual lightweight, Washingtoni-
ans have come to respect his intelli-
gence. Although characterized as be-
holden to big business, Bush has
governed with compassion and car-
ing. Even those who dislike Bush the
candidate cannot be unhappy with a
president who hosts T-ball games on
the South Lawn. Hopefully, the next
eight years will be as successful, and
wonderfully conservative, as the first
several weeks have been.

dernic achievement thus may serve as
a “cover” of sorts to help the person
cope. In addition, there have been
cases of very high—achieving students
committing suicide.

1 would also like to point out that
there is a difference between achieve-
ment and how one feels about the
achievement. Two persons who have
earned a 3.0 GPA may feel very differ-
ent about that achievement. There are
probably many other arguments for
the possible consistency of the two
bodies of evidence cited by Kirwan
which are much more objective, and
persuasive, than my appeal to per-
sonal experience. I will leave argu-
ments for consistency to the psychol-
ogy experts in this field. I only wish
to point out that the two sets of con-
clusions are not necessarily mutually
exclusive.

“Nothing surprises me anymore.”
—Rodger Day ‘85

I assume that Kirwan has reviewed
these studies. I encourage him to en-
lighten us with a second, more thorough
article that examines the studies more
closely and provides us with an argu-
ment for their necessary inconsistency.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ’03

Kirwan responds:

The Gilligan study didn ’t use con-
ventional scientiﬁc analysis, was not
peer reviewed, and identiﬁed a sup-
posed nationwide crisis in the men-
tal health of adolescent girls. More
reliable studies have shown girls to
be well-adjusted, successful, and con-
ﬁdent. My point was that TODTWD
was created in response to shoddy,
provocative evidence crafted to serve
radical feminist purposes.

  

MAY 7, 2001

“Casual attire is a nice change.”

—Bill Davidson ‘50 —John Meloy ‘86

 

A @112 iamg-tum iﬁlii
. MAY 7,2001 s  E PAGE3

Christian artist plays GHQ

Artist impresses
students with
music, openness

By Amy Blevins
W&LIFE EDITOR

Musician Bebo Norman filled the GHQ Tuesday night with
soft guitar chords and his otherwise unaccompanied voice. Spon-
sored by the Catholic Campus Ministry, Norman spent two hours
sharing compositions from his two albums, The Fabric of Verse
and Ten Thousand Days. Norman also promoted his upcoming
album Big Blue Sky.

Senior Kathy Soroka began the process of bringing Norman
to the GHQ when she introduced Catholic Campus minister Burr
Datz to Norrnan’s music.

In addition to his music, many students were impressed with
N onnan’s onstage manner.

“His passion and lack of pretentiousness won me over. . .His
combination of truthful songs with a sincere desire to connect
with those listening made an amazing performance,” said sopho-
more Adam Mayer.

“I really enjoyed his spontaneous performance and jokes.”
said freshman Emily Averitt. “This gave a great sense of real-
ness in his music and message by conveying his humanity.”
M Students also commented on Norman’s personalized ap-
 ' M 7 _ - proach to his performance.

' ' ' “He gave the listener something with which to identify,” said
Averitt. “Also, I loved how he mixed testimony with song to con-
vey a deep message of Christianity and life. He was very real,
down to earth, and open with his audience.”

Norman discussed his concern with world poverty. During
his performance Norman urged students to adopt children from
., , the Compassion International table which was set up next to the
- A table selling his merchandise.

1  Students also approved of the atmosphere the GHQ provided the
photo by Mary Guy/photo editor performance. “Because when he plays it’s just him and his guitar the
SING UNTO THE LORD. Artist Bebo Norman sings for W&L GHQ was the perfect Venue’ Small and inﬁmatega Said Soroka.

Students in the GHQ 3b0“t God and life» Norman related stories of his own life to his music, beginning

_ - each song by describing its significance. Students said this ap-
 ' the nnntogrann accomnanvlng proach helped students identify with his message of faith. “He
the  IIBWS  III the ﬂllrll  ISSIIB Was talks about life from the perspective of faith. He talks about the
take“   Pnnlogranner Meg rel-rara' struggles of everyday life, struggles that everyone goes through,

. and he talks about God’s roles in them.” said Soroka. “I just
"0!  Ednor  all” think even though it’s Christian music it’s very universal.”

.-2....  

0  I . , . .
 Archery, Basebatl, Basketball, Clambmg Wali, Qreatweﬁrts. Drama, Footbali, Gotf, Gymnastics,
? t “  Hiking, lnlme-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softbali, Swimming, Tennis,

Volieyball, Waierskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions,

U)  h  Q’ P  rt’ -camp Romaca

for Girls:

CAMP couNsi.=.ji.oRiis

Summer in New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

        
    
   
     
     
    
    
 
   

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co~ed staffs, competitive
saiarres + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

Camp Greytock
for Boys:

   
     

  
 
   

888-2~i'omaca 1 -300-342-5214

ggrm_gamggreyEock.com

     
  
 
   

 

)yjevw.camgromaca . 

What are you doing this summer?

I
\X/here do you want to go
? * .
this summer?
I‘ .
-   How about afew steps closer
9

r to graduation?

" Take advantage of a unique opportunity to study at:

" ‘ C.'}eorgerovm University this summer at special summer tiiitioii.
rates. Cliioose from more than 300 graduate and unc;iergi~adi.iate
drag and evenirig credit courses during three c<mvr2nieiit sessioris.

P
. P1‘t':'S€SSl0l"1: May 21 « jiirfie 15
"" First Session: jiinr: 4 ~ juiy 6
' Scctnid Session: July 9 ~ August 10
' ".5 Call ZOZ»€$f§7«5942 for 21 catalog or visit our website lzieinw.
_ ‘ C)n~c.anipus housing is also available.
fr, . .
. Georgetown University

3c.l“i£>()l for Sr,iiiiiner & Coritiiiiiing Educatiori
wWw.geor~getown.eduJssce/summer
/~\ ll"irr:i;;.xt2"s.=r,‘ ./'-\ ('1 l(5(‘gIIF/{.1‘t((|l Ckiy-srrti_z31i(§.' Ii‘1sx‘i tut it gt)

 

 

 

PAGE 4

S i”>3iiTs

MAY 7, 2001

Women’s tennis tops Mary Washington

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team contin-
ues to blast away its competition.

The Generals (18—2, 10-0 Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference) ﬁnished a strong regular season with a 7-2 defeat
of Mary Washington on Saturday afternoon.

Sophomore Erika Proko led the team with a 6-3, 6-1
victory in second-seed singles, then later teamed with
junior Melissa Hatley for an 8-4 victory in top—seed
doubles.

W&L also claimed victories in fourth, ﬁfth, and sixth-
seed singles as sophomore Alyson Brice, sophomore
Brandi Jane Wedgeworth, and freshman Liz Law easily
defeated their competition.

The Generals ﬁnished the victory with a sweep of the
doubles matches. In addition to Proko and Hatley’s vic-
tory, sophomore Laura Bruno and junior Sallie Jane Strang
won in number—two doubles and Brice and Wedgeworth
knocked off MWC in three-seed doubles.

W&L sweeps

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

At the Old Dominion Athletic Conference tournament,
held on April 20-21 in Lynchburg, Washington and Lee’s
men’s tennis team captured its 20th ODAC championship
in the last 25 years.

The Generals also swept the tournament for the ﬁrst
time in 12 years, taking the championship of all six singles
and all three doubles ﬂights.

Ranked 25th in the nation for Division IH play, the Gen-
erals finished the year with a 12-5 record, posting a mark
of 6-0 against ODAC opponents.

“The team has been very strong all year round thanks
largely to the leadership of our juniors,” head coach

This matchup was the last preparation before the Gen-
erals enter the national tournament in the NCAA Atlantic
Regional.

“Mary Washington is one of the top ﬁve of 107 teams
in the Atlantic South region,” coach Cinda Rankin said
after the victory.

In order to enter the NCAA playoffs, the Generals
needed a victory in the ODAC tournament. Tradition
reigned as the Generals took the crown for the 1 1th straight
year. W&L players won every match they played in dur-
ing the two-day tournament.

Hatley led the way with a championship in number-one
singles. She later received the distinction of ODAC Player
of the Year.

Despite Hatley’s accomplishment, Rankin believes that
every player will help the team in the goal to match last
year’s third-place national ﬁnish.

“Every player makes a signiﬁcant contribution every-
day, whether in a match or in practice,” Rankin said. “That’s
why this team is so good. We never have to depend on
one player to carry the team.”

 
 

Ring-Ium l’lzI' File Photo

BEST IN THE ODAC. Junior Melissa Hatley
was named conference Player of the Year.

ODACs, heads to playoffs

David Detwiler said.

Since sweeping the ODACs, the team has had nearly
three weeks to prepare for the Division HI South Regional.
Based on their work in practice, juniors Rhys James and
Andrew Roberts, number one and two singles respec-
tively, are expected to have strong showings down the
road.

Although new to the postseason, freshmen Austin Kim,
Graham Nix, and K.C. Schaefer will also have an important
role to play. Going into the tournament, Detwiler feels that
“everyone is doing their part. The team is fresh, conﬁ-

 

dent, and ready for regionals.”

   

The Generals will be assigned their first round oppo-

nent for the South Regional early in the week and the
tournament itself begins this weekend.

Rizzg-Iuln P/Ii File Photo

PLAYOFF BOUND. Freshman Graham Nix and the

Generals will play in the NCAA South Regional.

Generals win ﬁnal pair of 2001 contests

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
GREAT IN THE CIRCLE. Sophomore Tom Melanson
won 19 of his 22 faceoff attempts in W&L’s 16-
6 win over Randolph-Macon on Wednesday.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Although they won’t be headed to
the postseason this year, the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s lacrosse team fm—
ished the season in a strong fashion.

On Wednesday, the Generals harn-
mered Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference foe Randolph-Macon 16-6 at
Wilson Field. Junior Andrew Barnett
scored four goals, including three
during a 6-0 W&L outburst in the
third quarter, and added two assists
in the win.

The Generals finished 5-1 in the
ODAC with the win over the Yellow
Jackets, winning 22 of 26 faceoffs.
Sophomore Tom Melanson won 19
of his 22 attempts, also leading the
team by collecting 13 ground balls.
Seniors Pope Hackney and Bernie

Norton scored two goals apiece for
W&L.

Hackney, Norton and Barnett
scored unassisted goals in the first
13:34 of the game to give W&L a quick
3-0 lead on Saturday against Lime-
stone, the No. 1 ranked team and de-
fending champion in Division II.

The Saints would surge back be-
fore the end of the half, knotting the
game at 4-4 with 17 seconds remain-
ing in the second quarter. After se-
nior Matt Dugan found the net to
open the second half, Limestone’s
Nick Carlson netted a pair of goals to
give his team a 6-5 advantage.

However, six unanswered goals by
the Generals gave them an 11-6 lead
late in the game. Dugan and Hackney
each ﬁnished their W&L careers with
hat tricks, and Barnett tallied two
goals and two assists. Another se-

nior, Wes Hays, stopped five shots in
goal for W&L.

Freshman Mike McNamara was
pleased with the way the final week
of the season progressed, but wished
for the chance to make a playoff run.

“lt’s disappointing, especially for the
seniors, just because they’ve worked so
hard for four years,” said McNamara, who
ﬁnished with eight goals on the season.

Although W&L will lose eight se-
niors this year, McNamara doesn’t
anticipate that expectations for 2002
will be lowered signiﬁcantly.

“We’re definitely going to miss
(the seniors’) leadership, not to men-
tion their talent,” McNamara said. “But
we have a lot of great returning play-
ers, and hopefully the people who we
need to step up will step up.”

The Generals ended the 2001 cam-
paign with an overall record of 14-1 .

Women’s lax drops season finale

Generals fall to No. 3 ranked
team in Division II

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team
shaped up for the NCAA Tournament with a 10-7
loss to Division II Limestone at the Liberty Hall Fields
on Saturday.

The third-ranked Saints benefited from three second-
half goals by sophomore Meghan Dennehy and a goal
and two assists from junior Becky Buppert in snapping
the Generals’ nine—game winning streak.

W&L cut into Limestone’s 5-3 halftime lead on a goal
by sophomore Leslie Bogart less than a minute into the
second half. After Dennehy extended the lead back to two
goals, junior Emily Owens quickly pulled the Generals back
to a one-goal deﬁcit. Senior Liz Borges’ goal, one of her
three scores on the day, at 20:31 tied the game at 6-6.

Borges would tie the game again shortly thereafter, but
the Saints ﬁnished the day with three unanswered goals,
two at the hands of Dennehy, to secure the win.

Track teams ﬁnish fourth at
ODAC Championships

The Washington and Lee track teams completed their
2001 seasons on April 28, as both the men and women
turned in fourth—place ﬁnishes at the ODAC Champion-
ships in Bridgewater.

On the women’s side, juniors Sarah Schmidt and Megan
Babst won individual ODAC titles. Schmidt won the jav-
elin event for the third consecutive year, throwing for a
meet record l20’0 ”. Babst, in her first season with the
team, exceeded the ﬁve—foot mark in the high jump to claim
first place.

Senior Amy Calce ﬁnished second in the long jump
with a school-record leap of 169”, and sophomore Burke
Duncan placed second in both the 1,500 and 3,000—meter
events.

Senior Sandy Hooper led the men’s team with a sec-
ond—place ﬁnish in the 1,500 meters. Junior Mike Hegg
turned in a season-best time of 15.42 seconds in the 110-
meter high hurdles, good for second place as well.

Two Generals placed in the top ﬁve in the 100-meter
dash: senior Marc Watson in third and sophomore Chris
Sullivan, who also placed third in the long jump, in ﬁfth.

Lynchburg won both the men’s and women’s team titles
in the ﬁve-team ﬁeld.

Hackney named ODAC
Player of the Year

Washington and Lee senior midfielder Pope Hackney
was recognized as ODAC Player of the Year, joining seven
teammates on All-ODAC teams.

Joining Hackney on the ﬁrst team were senior attackrnan
Matt Dugan, senior defenseman Pete Iwancio, senior
midﬁelder Bernie Norton and sophomore midﬁelder Tom
Melanson. Junior defenseman Eric Kontargyris and senior
goalie Wes Hays were named to the second team, and jun-
ior attackrnan Andrew Barnett received honorable mention.

Hackney led the Generals to a 14-1 record, 5-1 in con-
ference play, ﬁnishing with 34 goals and 12 assists on the
season. He tallied 109 goals and 47 assists during his
career at W&L. A

Hathorn recognized as

conference Coach of the Year

Head coach Jan Hathom received ODAC Coach of the
Year honors, and ﬁve Washington and Lee women’s la-
crosse players were narned to the all-conference teams on
Wednesday.

Senior attacker Liz Borges, junior defender Eloise Priest,
and freshman midﬁelder Lee Wheeler were named to the
All-ODAC first team, and senior attacker -Ellen Ritsch and
sophomore midﬁelder Sarah J anowitz received second-
team recognition. .

Hathom, who guided the Generals to a 15-3 record and
their third appearance in the NCAA Tournament, received
Coach of the Year honors for the ﬁfth time. .

Follow the W&L women’s
lacrosse, men’s tennis, and
women’s tennis teams in the
playoffs on the sports page of
the Ring-tum Phi.

Summer Camp
Counselor Jobs

Looking for a challenge, fun and the best
summer of your life?

Camp Easter Seal in Virginia has job
openings for camp counselors, program
instructors for aquatics, horseback riding,
adventure and sports.

Work with children and adults with
disabilities in a beautiful outdoor setting.
Staff come from across the US and around
the world.

Room, board, salary provided.
Camp Easter Seal
20500 Easter Seal Drive
Milford, VA 22514.
(804) 633-9855.

www.campeasterseal-va.org

Email: dbrown@va.easter-seaIs.org

   

To Sublet

Historic Charleston
Large one bedroom/one
lbath w/d, one off-street
parking spot

lGreat neighborhood, four
iblocks from College of
Charleston.

Suitable for 1 to 2 people.
Available May 1-August 10.

Email lktayl0r53@a0l.cOm

 

