 

   

JAIB 0. IE/team: LIMARY
WAGHIN-IWIJW 3: gm umvensrrv
=.;:_.:~»a:u~<"»"""-e vs. auto

  

he   ﬂing-tum 1%

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

 

0 3 2001

VOLUME 104, No.1

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, APRIL 30, 2001

 

 

W&L faculty keeps calendar

Washington and Lee University’s faculty voted
127 to 64 to keep its current academic calendar, in-
cluding its six—week spring term.

In doing so, the faculty chose not to adopt the
conventional two—semester schedule in place at most
colleges and universities nationally.

The vote came after an extensive review by the Uni-
versity Calendar Committee. The committee periodi-
cally reviews the academic calendar in accordance with
its accreditation requirements, which call for the Uni-
versity to “ensure the adequacy of the academic cal-
endar to curricular objectives.” Courtesy W&L Website

Earth Day Celebration

The Washington and Lee Outing Club and the
Ofﬁce of Student Activities co-sponsored a special
Earth Day Celebration yesterday.

Student leaders Blaine Clarke ’02 and Helen
Downes ’02 coordinated the event, which featured
student bands Ring’s End and Smokestaxx, organic
concessionsand representatives from local environ-
mental groups.

The Outing Club gave away ﬂowers and herbs
and sold Earth Day t—shirts. The proceeds went to
the club’s continuing conservation work in the com-
munity. Courtesy W&L Website.

W&L Receives $800,000 Grant

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation awarded a
$800,000 grant to Washington and Lee University for
hiring new faculty who represent wide-ranging inter-
ests, abilities and cultures.

The University recognizes that in order to prepare
students for a vastly changing world they must learn
to engage, understand and live alongside people that
represent different cultural backgrounds.

The Mellon grant will provide funding for tenure-
track faculty members over a seven—year hiring period.
The proposed hires will come from diverse disciplines.

Last year the Mellon Foundation awarded W&L a
$390,000 grant to help develop the Teaching and Learn-
ing Resource Center at the University. The center’s
mission is to provide faculty with assistance in profes-
sional development as they explore new avenues for
teaching. Courtesy W&L Website

Verizon grant awarded

English professors Marc Conner, Suzanne Keen and
Eric Wilson have been awarded the Verizon Grant to
improve their courses with Web technology. Each of
the faculty members will receive a stipend and will
have access to specialized training, student assistants
and other resources for the project’s completion dur-
ing Fall Term 2001.

The project involves a collaboration between three
courses: Expository Writing and two sections of Com-
position and Literature. The use of the Web will facili-
tate communication and collaboration among the stu-
dents and professors involved in the courses. Conner,
the lead writer of the proposal, said the project will
result in resources on composition that will be avail-
able to many W&L courses.

Coming up . . .

Today

—7 p.m. Dr. Tom Nye, Biology. “A Look Back at
Forty—five Years.” Last Lecture Series. Gaines
Gatehouse. Sponsored by Catholic Campus Ministry.
No charge.

—8 p.m. Lecture. Dr. Richard Bootzin, University
of Arizona. “The Mystery of Sleep: Causes and Treat-
ment of Insomnia.” duPont Hall.

Tuesday, May 1

—7:30 p.m. Contact Lecture. Mike Reiss, producer
of “The Simpsons.” “How You Can Be a Comedy
Writer (and Why You Shouldn’t).” Lee Chapel.

—8 p.m. Concert. Bebo Norman, Christian Record-
ing Artist. $5 cover. GHQ.

—8 p.m. Senior Recital. Hillary Bryant, mezzo—so—
prano. Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Wednesday, May 2

—7:30 p.m. Lecture. Hugh Blackmer. “Dirges, Mur-
der Ballads and Cries of the Heart: Musics of Death
and Dying.” Room 214, Science Center.

Thursday, May3

—8 p.m. Senior Presentation. Brian Stisser. Johnson
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

——8:30 p.m. Alumni Weekend begins. Tom Wolfe
‘5 1, keynote speaker. Lee Chapel.

Friday, May 4

—l1 a.m. Address. President John Elrod. “Sixty
Minutes with the President.” Question and answer
session to follow. Lee Chapel.

——7:30 p.m. Film Society. David Mamet Festival.
“House of Games” (1987). T roubador Cinema.

—8 p.m. Senior Recital. Lauren LaFauci, perform-
ing works for ﬂute and piccolo. Lee Chapel.

Saturday, May 5

—l p.m. Book signing by Tom Wolfe ‘51. Bookstore.

—7:30 p.m. Film Society. David Mamet Festival.
“Glengarry Glen Ross” (1992). Troubador Cinema.

Sunday, May6

—8 p.m. Senior Recital. Lovancy Ingram, violin.

ALL SHE WANTS TO DO IS DANCE. Members of the W&L Dance Ensemble perform in their

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

sixth annual spring recital Saturday night, showcasing jazz, tap and ballet.

n-air ‘ ‘J avapalooza” debuts

Students enjoy

show, but noise

bothers some
By Latrina Stokes

STA FF WRITER

Spring has drawn Java at the GHQ
outside to the Co—op for live music
and tasty treats, but after the first ses-
sion of “Javapalooza,” ears are still
ringing.

I While some students said the
good music created a pleasant atmo-
sphere, freshmen Ashley Daly and
Michael Khattak commented on how
the volume of the music was disrup-
tive.

The new location, at the heart of
campus near dormitories, the-snack
bar and academic buildings, gives
students easy access to the perfor-
mances. Students trying to study on
the Hill, however, complained about
the volume. In fact, each act will play
outside the C—School study area.

Some students not interested in
attending compained about the noise.

    

Freshman Kim Lambkin, who lives
behind the Co-op in Graham—Lees,
was disturbed while studying in her
room Monday night.

“A warning would have been po-
lite,” Larnbkin said.

To prevent further disturbances,
Lambkin suggested that the organiz-
ers move Java to the Dell, the more
secluded grassy area behind
Leybum Library.

Senior Matt Herman, one of the
student managers, said the current
location will allow bigger bands to
play than could fit in the GHQ.

Junior Micah Tolman did not think
the volume mattered. He said he was
impressed that an event not driven
by alcohol or hormones brought to-
gether so many different segments of
W&L.

“I thought it was absolutely great,”
Tolman said. “The harmonizing power
of art brought people together.”

Java’s first outdoor event drew a
large crowd. It was estimated that es-
timated that between 250 and 275
people attended.

“I was pleasantly surprised,”
said senior Heather McDonald, the

'1

photo courtesy Heather McDonald

MUSIC or THE NIGHT. Student band Smokestaxx played at the
first Javapalooza until the noise permit ran out.

other student manager. “It kind of
knocked my socks off to have so
many people hanging out.”

That was one of the major goals
for moving the venue, said J ava’s ad-
ministrative sponsor Teresa
Glassman.

“We are really trying to build a
closer community before we move to
the Commons,” she said.

Glassman would like to start a
new tradition on campus where
people can come socialize or study
in a low-key setting. She also hopes
Java’s move will boost business for
the GHQ as well as the Co—op.

Java at the GHQ began lastfyear as
a campus coffeehouse. Sponsored in
part by Virginia’s Department of Al-
coholic Beverage Control, Java pro-
vides students an alc0hol—free place
to study while enjoying musical acts
nearly every Monday night.

Students can enjoy the warmer
weather and new cold treats, like iced
coffee, iced espresso and ice cream
from Sweet Things.

Although Java sells drinks and
desserts, it does not make any profit.
Glassman said that the main purpose
of Java is to keep students on cam-
pus.

Organizers will use other means
besides food to attract spectators.
Herman said local bands will play in
the next few weeks, including Agents
of Good Roots and Greenhouse. The
Guy Smiley Blues Exchange will play
tonight.

Glassman said the popularity of
Smokestaxx made them a good
choice for the first session of
Javapalooza. However, she said that
the campus should not expect a big
concert every week.

“We don’t want loudness to be
synonymous with Java,” Glassman
said.

Geology major wins Goldter Schohip

Junior wins national
science and math honor

By Amy Blevins
W&L1FE EDITOR

Last month, 302 students nationwide
were told they had won a Goldwater Schol-
arship, a prestigious award given to prom-
ising students in mathematics, engineering
and the natural sciences. W & L geology
major Amie Lucier, a junior, counts herself
among them.

After being nominated by the
scholarship’s faculty representative, Asso-
ciate Dean of the College Stephen
Desjardins, Lucier submitted an essay
about her future career with three letters of
recommendation. One of about 1200 stu-
dents vying for the scholarship, Lucier was
one of 198 science students to receive the
scholarship.

The Goldwater Scholarship, created to
honor former United States Senator Barry
M. Goldwater, awards a $7500 academic grant.
Many Goldwater recipients have later won
Rhodes Scholarships, fellowships from the
Marshall, Churchill and Fulbright programs

or honors from the National Science Founda-
tion.

Lucier already has hands-on geology ex-
perience. Last summer, she studied the forma-
tion and composition of rocks during an in-
ternship funded by the National Science
Foundation’s Research Experience for Under-
graduates (REU) at the Carnegie Institution
of Washington Geophysical Laboratory.
Lucier worked for ten weeks in Washington,
D.C., and presented her work and a paper to
the labscientists.

Lucier is doing more research this summer
with REU at the University of Alaska,
Fairbanks, Geophysical Institute. She will be
doing seismic and gravity studies of the Alaska
Range for ten weeks.

Lucier’s research may have short-term and
long-term beneﬁts. She plans to attend graduate
school and get a Ph.D. in geology. Lucier said
she wants to find a career in geochemical or geo-
physical industrial research.

Lucier added that she will make the most of
this opportunity.

“I hope that the work I do this summer
will help me nail down exactly the area of
research I am interested in pursuing,” Lucier
said. “Hopefully, I can use this research to
write a Senior Thesis next year.”

  

  

p oto y ary Guy/P oto Editor
ROCKIN’ IN THE FREE WORLD. Junior geology major Amie
Lucier won a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship, given to

198 natural science students nationwide this year.

 

 

APRIL 30, 2001

O

@112 iﬁtng-tum lﬂlti

PINION

   

PAGE2 .

_A

Hooking up is statistically impossible

Many students commonly mourn their inability to “hook
up,” or to have wild monkey sex, for the layman. The rea-
son for this is not because they are unnattractive, lack
game or have poor ﬂirting skills. Rather, the small size of
W&L compounded with its homogenous student body (I
had to throw that in somewhere, or it wouldn’t have been
a true article), prevents students from making out.

It’s all really a question of facts and ﬁgures. There are
roughly 2000 students here, only 1000 of whom you can
hook up with while still remaining within the boundaries
of heterosexual activities. Out of those 1000, estimate that
there are only 500 cool enough.

Now this is where it gets complicated. Technically, there
are 500 people to mess around with, mentally toy with,
date, use/abuse, get engaged to, have pseudo-platonic
relationships with, or screw over. In theory, this could
keep us very occupied and satisﬁed for four years. One
hundred twenty-five nights of unbridled passion for each
year of your academic career. However, this is not the
case. This number is dramatically reduced through a se-
ries of factors that proves how sex is statistically impos-
sible.

I.) Messy Fratemity/Sorority Breakups: A classic
case. You date someone for a long-ass period of time. You
wake up in the morning and eat brunch downstairs with
his fratemity brothers. Or you’re welcomed with open arms
into the sorority houses with the reminder you can’t go
upstairs. You gain an entire new set of friends of the op-
posite sex. And then you break up. Messily. And you can
no longer date any of those guys who you had once dined
with while wearing your boyfriend’s boxers. You can longer
walk into the sorority houses without Dobermans goug-
ing out your eyeballs. (We keep them in the back room for
special occasions like breakups.) There goes about 100
people you can’t date anymore. Down to 400.

2.) 90210 and Dawson 19 Creek Dramas: It doesn’t
matter that they never even dated. Maybe they had a
tumultuous affair ‘that ended in the

courtesy of all4love.net

SORRY, FoLKs. There won’t be any more romantic nights at Java at the GHQ.

3.) Roommate Rules: Some upstanding students try
to abide by the no-hooking-up-with—anyone-their-room-
mates—have—hooked—up-with rule. These people are para-
digms of self discipline and restraint. Say you live with
four other people. And for the sake of my well constructed
argument, say on average a student has hooked up with
15 people. Sixty people drop out of the running. In the
same vein, perhaps you have hooked with one of these

roomies, and feel awkward about

“better—off—as-friends” deal. Maybe
he just swims in a sea of lustful ec-
stasy whenever she gently touches

oithemers Exposure
Kris Pollina ’03

hooking up with another one. So say
you’ve hooked up with someone
from five different households, all

her elbow. Maybe she hooked up
with him once and he said he’d rather slip down a slide of
razor blades into a pool of rubbing alcohol than date her. It
doesn’t matter, because there’s still the entire drama that
ensued that makes you two cosmically linked. And there-
fore, these aforementioned persons are off-limits. Rela-
tionship drama here, granted, is pretty sparse (nope) so
another 150 bite the dust.

STAFF EDITORIAL

For a student, few things are as blisteringly practical as
running a newspaper. Deadlines must be met, writers man-
aged, money (outgoing, mostly) juggled and computers
repaired in a continual and lost war against decrepitude.
Publishing the Ring-tum Phi is a complicated routine, and
often only a few hours separate having the presses run-
ning and finding yourself being squeezed in them.

The work is necessary, however, because without the
Phi our news would go unreported, our opinions unheard,
and our sports triumphs unheralded.

The previous editorial board recognized this, and set a
high standard for the Phi. Their efforts bore fruit in an
attractive and well-written paper that bears favorable com-
parison with nearly any previous volume. The senior edi-
tors posessed many qualities that we hope to emulate:
Emily’s calm, Stephar1ie’s mildness, Mike’s sobriety, Max’s
volunteerism, Alexis’s passion.

Recognizing the debt we owe to our predecessors, we
now introduce their sucessors.

 

Ellie ‘tiling-tum lﬂlti

Editor in Chief
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor

Matt McDerm0tt
Mike Agnello
Alison Trinidad
Brett T. Kirwan
Amy Blevins
Jeremy Franklin
Katie Howell
Mary Guy

Staff Photographer Meg Ferrara
Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
’Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

alike in dignity, 20 more people say
goodbye to the prospect of ass. One hundred sixty magic
lucky ones remaining.

4.) “Just Friends ”: A lot of people like to mess with
standard generational tradition and have friends of the
opposite sex that don’t have any overarching sexual ten-
sion. The 2 a.m. phone calls outlining how drunk you
were, the casual lunches, the no—ulterior-motive sponta-

neous “just thought I’d stop by” visit. These are all hall-
marks of the platonic affair. With maybe 30 of these inno-
cent relationships, the number drops to 130, for fear of
ruining a perfectly normal friendship over something as
stupid as lust.

5. ) “Personal Issues”: Because of the rampant hook-
ing up that occurred before statistics rendered it impos-
sible, many have “issues” with hooking up. Whether it be
because he didn’t call the next day, or she broke his tender
heart, or she doesn’t believe in one night ﬂings, or he
doesn’t have enough energy to talk to the same girl all
damn night, personal issues prevent sexual relations. This
factor weighs in heavily, eliminating a whopping 120.

6.) And the remaining 10... Out of your league.

And so, because of the terrors of data analysis, sex has
become an obsolete term here. Maybe if we one day sus-
pend our loyalties and morals we can once again relish in
the paradoxical barbarity and beauty of free love. Until
then, we can joy in the simpler pleasures, like peanut but-
ter and jelly sandwiches and mix tapes.

Matthew McDermott, of Mandeville, La., serves as edi-
tor in chief. He previously pulled the oars as the Phi’s
news editor.

Michael Agnello, of Arlington, Texas, was last term’s as-
sistant news editor and will be this term’s associate editor.

Alison Trinidad, of Corona, Calif., previously a staff
writer, moves to editorship of the news page. The Vir-
ginia Press Association believes that she wrote the
state’s best news story this year (“Pi Beta Phi house
evacuated”).

Brett Kirwan, of Avon Lake, Ohio, moves from the as-
sistant opinions editor slot to take the full position. Brett
will safeguard the freedom of the campus’s most popular
forum, the Phi opinions page.

Amy Blevins, of Greenville, S.C., previously a staff
writer, takes the helm of the W&Life page. Last year she
edited her state’s top-ranked high school newspaper.

Jeremy Franklin, of Henderson, N.C., catapulted to
sports editor earlier in the year, and retains his position.

LETTER To THE EDITOR

W&L should jump off the
Women’s Studies bandwagon

Dear Editor,

Noticing a slight lopsidedness in the letters to the
editor concerning the Women’s Studies Program, I
thought that one letter supporting the gist of Brett
Kirwan’s and Catherine Culpepper’s articles would not
be amiss.

I must admit I really don’t see the necessity for a Women’s
Studies course here at Washington and Lee. Make no rnis—
take, I do not consider women inferior to men at all; rather,
they are equal and should share the same rights and privi-
leges. However, I think this point is fairly obvious, and
does not really require a special course of study.

I could not help but notice that atrocities committed
against women in other countries are often cited as an
example of why we need a Women’s Studies program here.
While these actions are certainly outrageous, and should
be stopped, I fail to see how they are a proof of the need

  What do you like best about the warm weather?» ‘

   

“Being able to just relax otside.”
—Kelly Schlicter ‘03

  

“Swimming In the Maury.”
—Jordan Bittle’03

Last year, he was editor in" chief of the best literary maga-
zine of North Carolina.

Katie Howell, of Oxford, Miss., draws upon six years of
page—design experience in her new role as layout editor. A
past president of the Mississippi Scholastic Press Asso-
ciation, she continues to write for the Phi ’s news and
feature sections.

Mary Guy, of Raleigh, N.C., serves as photo editor, a
position she has held from the beginning of Winter Term.
Besides snapping the VPA’s second place sports photo,
she also shepherded the Phi photographers who won
first and third.

This year’s editorial board recognizes the historical
trust it holds on behalf of the Washington and Lee com-
munity. While early blunders may serve to amuse the pre-
vious editors or to inspire us to harder work , we promise
to provide the quality of newspaper that W&L has come
to expect. With this, we open the inaugural issue of the
104th volume of the Ring-tum Phi .

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

y Brett T. Krwa

for Women’s Studies, unless one believes that the male
part of the student body at Washington and Lee is behind
these reprehensible acts. By the same argument, taking
into account all the persecutions of religious minorities
that occur across the world, we should be pushing for a
Christians Studies program as well.

Several advocates of the Women’s Studies program,
when pressed with charges that the program is simply in
response to a fad, have pointed to other “similar” changes
to the academic program that the university has made in the
past. While nothing can be immediately ruled out as being
“good” or “bad” merely on the basis of change, I would like
to point out that the decision to add spring term was hardly
made as part of a growing trend affecting universities across
the nation.

Rather, it was a decision arrived after much thought and
aimed at enhancing the uniqueness of W&L. I feel that
adding a Women’s Studies program, on the other hand,
would instead detract from that uniqueness, reducing the
diversity available at centers for higher education.

One sentence in Nancy Rhineheart’s letter somewhat

 

“Ice cream.”
—Arnina Elgouacem ‘O3

 

   
    
   
   
    
      
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

illustrates the misgivings I have about adding the Women’s
Studies program. “Also, speaking as a woman, do you .v
have any idea what happens to other women in the world?”
Rhineheart seems to imply that as a man, Brett Kirwan can
really neither have any idea what women around the world
go through, nor contribute any meaningful comments to
the discussion. ‘‘
I find this idea that men are totally unable to relate to or
communicate with women rather disturbing. I would ﬁnd V’
any course that fostered this belief and tension between
two parts of society equally disturbing. "
It seems to me that we don’t need to be drawing lines
in this fashion, by instituting a course of study that im-
plies that one half of the population is “out to get” the
other half. For all of these reasons, I feel that adding a
Women’s Studies program to W&L is an unnecessary
and potentially divisive change. 1 '

Sincerely,
Jonathan Davis ‘04

 

“Sho shorts.”
-Lee Walker ‘04

 

 

  

APRIL 30, 2001

S

@112 ilting-tum ilﬂlit

PORTS

 

' photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
 DIAPER DANDY. Freshman Lee Wheeler’s four

5" goals lifted W&L to a 6-2 win over Lynchburg
10 in the ODAC Tournament title game.

Hampden-Sydney’s narrow
win will keep the Generals
home for the postseason

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team defeated
VMI for the 13th straight time in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse
Classic on Saturday, but overshadowing this victory looms
the larger issue of losing to Hampden-Sydney.

The Generals battled the Tigers to an 12-1 1 loss on
April 21, and lost any chances of making the NCAA play-
offs. With the win, Hampden Sydney earned the regular-
season Old Dominion Athletic Conference championship

BroLoGY & SCIENCE
MAJORS

No Experience

Needed! !

Start at 32K, 45K at 2 years

IMS Inc., a biomedical software firm
in Silver Spring, MD, is offering a free
4 week programming course. We have
10 openings. We have hired 90% of
the 50 students who have taken this
course. Course starts 6/18/01.

For details see www.IMSWEB.com
or to apply call toll free (888) 680-
5057.

T0 sublet . ..

House in Historic
Charleston

Large 1 bedroorn/lbath w/d
1 off street parking lot.

Great neighborhood, four blocks
from College of Charleston.

Suitable for one to two people.
Available May 1 — Aug 10th.

Email lktal0r53 @a0l.c0m

..... .....— ,. _ 

Women’s lacrosse team tops
Lynchburg in title contest to

earn trip to postseason
By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team used an
impressive four- goal performance from freshman midﬁelder
Lee Wheeler in order to defeat Lynchburg on Sunday, thus
earning their ﬁrst division crown since 1998 and an automatic
bid to the Division III national tournament.

The Generals recovered from a defeat to nationally-
ranked Mary Washington in late March to post six con-
secutive victories heading into the tournament.

In the tournament quarterﬁnals, the top- seeded Gener-
als made quick work of Guilford, posting an impressive 19-
3 victory in preparation for a semiﬁnal match against
Roanoke College.

On Saturday, the Generals needed a little more effort to
dispose of the fourth-seeded Maroons. After building a
precarious 10-8 lead, W&L used ﬁve unanswered goals in
the ﬁnal 1 1:23 to reach the championship game.

Wheeler scored four goals and fellow freshman Kelly
Taffe added three goals in the victory. Sophomore Leslie
Bogart and junior Emily Owens tallied two goals apiece
and each added an assist. Freshman goalie Joanna Perini
made 12 saves.

qW&L tops VMI, but will miss playoffs

and will receive an automatic bid to
the NCAA tournament.

“They played as well as they
could, and we played about as poorly
as we could,” head coach Jim
Stagnitta said.

The Generals rallied from an 11-6
deficit with 10 minutes remaining in
the game, with goals from seniors
Tom Burke, Matt Dugan and Pope
Hackney.

The Tigers answered right back,
scoring again to put the lead at 12-
9. The Generals came back again, as
Burke and junior Andrew Barnett
put the team within a goal of tying
the game.

However, Tigers’ goaltender
Scott Fava kept the Generals out of
the net for the rest of the game. Fave
made 14 saves on the day, including

12 in the second half. The Generals
attempted 21 shots in the fourth quar-
ter comeback.

“We put an unbelievable rush on
them, and just fell a little bit short,”
Stagnitta said of the comeback.

The Generals fared better against
the Keydets of VMI. W&L opened
the scoring with two goals from
Dugan and Hackney. Senior goaltender Wes Hays made
two early saves to keep the lead, but the Generals eventu-
ally fell behind as VMI scored three goals, two by fresh-
man Leo Mclnemey.

“It took us a little while to get going,” Stagnitta said of
the slow start. ‘

The Generals then went on to score two goals before
the end of the half, and led 5-3 going into the third quarter.
W&L did not lose the lead again for the rest of the game.
Dugan had three goals and three assists, and Hackney
totaled four goals and an assist.

Captain Pope Hackney, talking through bleeding lips,
commented on the effort of the seniors.

“We just realized that this game is so much fun,” Hack-

TOYOTA’ S

WWW. gettoyota . C0111.

limitations and ofler expires 6/30/01. See dealer for details.

® TOYOTA
CALL IT SQTART UP MONEY.

ACOLLEGE GRADUATE
FINANCE PLAN INCLUDES $500
TO GET YOU GOING!

Tl1crc’s sure to be a Toyota that’s just right for you.....

And now there’s a Toyota College Graduate Finance Program
that’s just right, too. Here are some of the advantages:
_ 0 No Down Payment
0 No Payment for 90 days
0 Finance up to 72 months

0 Get $500 Cash Back From Toyota...
in addition to any other current Toyota customer incentives!

So if you’re within 4 months of graduation -
or if you graduated within the past 2 years —
Ask your Toyota dealer for all the details.

Toyota College Graduate Finance Program available to qualified appli-
cants thru Toyota Financial Services. Not all applicants will qualify. Some
restrictions and limitations apply. Cash back offer subject to geographic

:Generals win ODAC tournament

In the championship match, W&L faced a tough
Lynchburg squad, which they earlier defeated 8-7 in over-
time during regular seasonconference play. W&L used a
stiﬂing defense and patient attack to defeat Lynchburg 6-2.

Behind the cry of “We want it more,” the Generals
jumped out to a 4-1 halftime lead behind three of Wheeler’s
four goals and an unassisted goal by senior Liz Borges.
Wheeler and Borges each added a goal in the second half
to secure the victory.

“I’m very proud of this team,” coach Jan Hathom said
of her team after their victory. “If you asked me at the
beginning of the season, I wouldn’t have believed we’d
be in this position.”

On defense, the Generals shut down Lynchburg’s of-
fense, relentlessly attacking the pass while Perini stopped
numerous shots on goal in key situations.

“The defense was better than usual and figured out
their scheme,” Hathom said. “J 0 made save after save and
really stepped up her game.”

After the game, Wheeler, Borges, Perini, and junior
defender Eloise Priest were all named to the All-Touma-
ment team.

The Generals next face a challenging season—ending
opponent in Division II Limestone before selections be-
gin for the national tournament, which begins the week-
end of May 12.

“Who knows what will happen in the tournament,”
Hathorn said. “We’re not experienced with national play,
but we’re excited about the opportunity to be there.”

Rmg-tum P/11 File Photo

SoLrD IN NET. Senior Wes Hays saved 75 percent of the shots
he faced in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic. The Generals
handed the Keydets a 15-5 loss at VMI.

ney said. “We may not be able to go to the tournament,
but we’ve got to enjoy these last two games. It’s just so
much fun and we’re never going to have anything like this
again.”

Hays held his line late in the game, making repeated
saves to ensure the overwhelming victory for the Gener-
als. He made 15 saves, earning a very respectable .750
save percentage for the contest. '

Pope Hackney and VMI senior attackman Brad Muston
were given the Worrell-Fallon Trophy as the game’s most
valuable players.

The Generals (12-1) have two games left in their sea-
son. They will face Randolph-Macon on Wednesday and
Limestone on Saturday.

Highlander

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
      
   
   
  
    
    
  
   
  
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
  

 
  

 
  

  H  _ H .- V
P »Wo1:rieng’siWor1dGt1p

  

 
 

   

thefzleague allocated :tlie[2

  
   
 

 

ashi gt<‘m¥¥3%C¥’?i>.ased. _ .
_ . n%tsG1o‘ba‘171i1aiigu at
ay¢IStint1re.wo:1d.’ii:.e W118
Soeceriea

 

 

PAGE 4

@112 King-tum iﬁlii

PORTS

  

APRIL 30, 2001

enerals set record for victories

Ring-mm Phi File Photo
BoYs or SUMMER? Freshman Bryan Mulhern

and the Generals earned a school-record 23
wins during the 2001 season.

W&L’s 23-win
total the ‘best in

school history
By Catherine Culpepper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball
team ﬁnished a record-setting season
by splitting a doubleheader against
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foe Lynchburg on April 21.

The Generals set a school record
for wins in a season, posting a 23-8
record, including a 9-7 mark in the
ODAC. Furthermore, they played
most of the year without sophomore
outﬁelder Bobby Littlehale, a second-
team All-ODAC selection in 2000.

“We had a great group of guys,
and they played with amazing con-
sistency,” head coach Jeff Stickley
said of his team. “Our pitching was
the strong point of the team.”

On April 14, W&L split a twin bill
with Virginia Wesleyan, which went
on to win the ODAC championship.

Senior David Sigler pitched the

Generals to an 8-1 win in the ﬁrst
game, scattering three hits and six
strikeouts in a complete game effort.
However, Blue Marlin Myron Trunick
hurled a two-hitter in game two as Vir-
ginia Wesleyan pulled out a 6-1 win.

The Generals then traveled to
Pennsylvania, tying and then break-
ing the school record for wins in a
season with victories over Haverford
and Swarthmore.

Against Haverford on April 18,
freshman Peter Dean recovered from
early struggles to improve to 6-0 on
the season. Dean allowed a three-run
first inning, but beneﬁted from a six-
run W&L third inning as the Generals
went on to win a 12-7 decision.

Sophomore shortstop Michael
Hanson batted 3-for-5, driving in ﬁve
runs and scoring twice, to lead the
Generals at the plate. Junior third
baseman Matt Kozora smacked a pair
of doubles and drove in three runs.

W&L then proceeded to hammer
Swarthmore, 20-1, to set the new vic-
tory record. Senior designated hitter
Jason May hit 2-for-3 with six RBI and
two runs, and sophomore first

baseman Brian Gladysz crossed the
plate four times. The Generals recorded
totals of 16 hits and 16 walks at the
plate against the Garnet Tide.

The Generals then returned home
for the season-ending doubleheader
against the Hornets.

Lynchburg’s lineup accounted for
two run-scoring singles in the ﬁrst
inning of game one, adding another
pair of runs in the fifth inning against
Sigler. Hanson’s two-run double in the
bottom half of the same inning cut the
lead in half, but Lynchburg held on
for the 6-3 win.

“(Sigler) pitched a great game
against Lynchburg, even though we
lost,” Stickley said. “The team’s go-
ing to miss him next year, but we’ve
got a lot of great freshmen.”

Hanson pitched a complete game
in the nightcap, yielding two earned
runs on four hits while striking out six
as the Generals won, 5-3.

W&L scored twice in the second
and third innings to build an early lead.

May hit 3-for-4 with a run, and
sophomore second baseman Todd
Johnson batted 2-for-3 with two RBI.

Golfers fall just short of ODAC title

We just couldn’t close coming down the stretch.”

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Talk about a strong finish.

The Washington and Lee golf team placed second in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Championships in
Blueﬁeld on April 23-24. The Generals ﬁnished the two-
day event just two strokes behind Guilford, the second-
ranked Division III team in the nation.

This showing followed ﬁrst—place performances at the
Roanoke ODAC Invitational on April 3 and the Emory and
Henry ODAC invite on April 16. The Generals’ turnaround
followed a disappointing second-place finish at the W&L
ODAC Invitational on March 22.

“We deﬁnitely ﬁnished strong this spring,” junior Kyle
Ulep said. “When the season began to wind down, we
knew that we had to finish strong to have a chance at
making nationals, so we became much more focused and

practiced much harder.”

W&L led the Quakers by ﬁve strokes after day one of
the ODAC Championships. Sophomore Chip Campbell
shot a 74, followed by Ulep, fellow junior Curtis Bethea
and sophomore Chuck Green at 75.

The second day of the event didn’t go quite so well for
the Generals, whose score rose from 299 to 310. Guilford
held steady, going from 304 to 303, to win the event.

“We just had a few bad holes coming in, but we really
should have kicked their butt,” head coach Gavin Colliton
said. “We fell through at the end, and gave the second
round to them. Guilford was nervous, and they actually
walked out of there thankful.”

Green led the Generals on day two with a 76, followed
by Campbell at 77, Bethea at 78, and Ulep at 79.

“It was very hard to handle the defeat at ODACs,”
Ulep said. “We put ourselves in a great position after the
first day, but things did not go our way on the second day.

   

\X/here do you Want to go
this summer?

How about a few steps closer
to graduation?

Take advantage of a unique opportunity to study at
Georgetown University this summer at special summer tuition
rates. Choose from more than 300 graduate and undergraduate
day and evening credit courses during three convenient sessions.

Pre-Session: May 21 - June 15
First Session: June 4 - July 6
Second Session: July 9 - August 10

  

Call 202-687-5942 for a catalog or visit our website below.
On-campus housing is also available.

2  Georgetown University

Scliool for Summer & Continuing Education
www.georgetown.edu/ssce/summer
Aﬁinnative Action/Equal Opportunity Institution

    

marry  
. J

  

Due to the strength of Division IH golf in the Generals’
district, head coach Gavin Colliton isn’t counting on an
at-large bid to the NCAA Championships. However, he
has been pleased with the improvement of his team, even
within the course of this season.

“The last few years, we’ve improved almost ten strokes
on our team average,” said Colliton, who is ﬁnishing his
second season as head coach. “We’ve almost got our
spring average under 310, which is pretty good. There’s a
tremendous difference from even just last year.”

After the team’s performance in 2001, Ulep is anticipat-
ing an even better season for the Generals next year.

“Although we could have played better at times, we
deﬁnitely made some forward progress throughout the
season,” Ulep said. “I am looking forward to next year. We
can only get better, and with the majority of the team re-
turning, I expect nothing less than entry into nationals.”

   

  

8 180    
YOURWEEKEND.   

Ali it takes is use weekend 3 month~and' as little as _
two tweets 3 year ta -servéyin ~a' p.a_rt~time capacity in
the trilt-time Array. in the US. Arm*yf.Reserve you can

V , pursue your ciiritia.n’ca1reer. stay ciese ta trams and I
develep your ‘stcilisrrtiile lea»rrii‘ng—..new r3rrss..,Ttre ,
Reserve aiferstraining in accrmting, veng.'inaering,-
electronics, law enforcement, software. araatjzsia, . i
m6€l~ici»n-e and more. — I  ’ A

 

"" it  I .Fin:i£lneiif?t¥ver,t8i1_.lila3r$81"

or call i-we-usn-Artur.

Iiutitarzt your lanai rjenruiter. -

Jsti

 

 

in Be rr’serdr’e‘r’at ssrriirvir£5ERrt_;.m1  ' ‘

has watt harp you rear: -what‘: test trrr you-. ‘

CAMP

 

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

COUNSELORS

Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Climbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, lnline-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

www.camQromaca.oom

Camp Romaca Camp Greylock
for Girls: for Boys:
888-2-romaca 1-800-842-5214

 

www.camggreylock.com

this summer?

Programmer/Anaylsts

Cubicles ??

We ain’t got no
stinkin’ cubicles !!

No work experience

required. IMS Inc. needs 5
programmers. Located 10 miles
North of Washington, D.C. We
use many different languages,
support biomedical research and
employ 165 people. No layoffs in
27 years!! You must know one
language well, have BS & 2.9+
GPA.

,See www.IMSWEB.com or
' Call toll free 1-888-680-5057

Study Outside
Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute -sponsors
an off~campns study program that
combines coursework in treiigion,
philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbing, biking‘

Lirnited space available for the
Fall 2001 session:.Aug. 27 -Dec. 10

Visit the CRI website to request an application.

Castle Rock Institute

R0. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 828-862-3759

Wwwcastle - rock.org »

 

and paddling.

 

 

