.C3’)~2.‘/5.5

  

 

,1/i ‘K1

5 '5?

¢ ":.W‘

 U112 iltng-tum {H111

\

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

JAMES G. LEYBURN Ll?:)i'iA:'iY
WASHINBTON & Lﬁ UNN&Sl'N
I e”—>fW<f-‘/?"w'.'>°.’«!. '\/A 

‘MAY t 7 2001

VOLUME 104, No.3

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 14, .2001

 

 

-"mail news briefs to
h'® I d ' v

 

Relay for Life raises money for

cancer research

The Rockbridge Area American Cancer Society
held its annual Relay for Life this weekend at
Rockbridge County High School.

The 24-hour event began at 3 p.m. Friday and
continued through the night to raise money for can-
cer research and to honor survivors and victims of
cancer. Seventy-three teams raised about $108,000
for .the cause. “Travelling for a cure,” W&L’s team,
raised more than $14,900.

University President John Elrod spoke at the open-
ing ceremony and walked the first lap with 120 other
cancer survivors to kick off the event. They were fol-
lowed by care givers and the Relay for Life teams.

Activities included a human ring toss, volleyball,
board games, a hula hoop contest and a tug—of-war.

,, Nabors Service Day is success

Saturday brunch kicked off W&L’s third annual
Nabors Service Day this weekend. Volunteer projects
included SPCA work, being with the elderly, yard
work and painting. 7

ii The event was sponsored by the Nabors Ser-

vice League, which was created to honor the memory
of Jonathan Nabors, who died his freshman year in
a car accident.

A W&L to celebrate second annual

China-Japan Day
The Department of East Asian Languages and Lit-

ﬂ eratures at Washington and Lee presents its second

annual China-Japan Day on Saturday, May 19. This cel-
ebration of Chinese and Japanese cultures will be held
from l0—3:00 at the Red House. The program includes
hands-on activities and demonstrations of calligraphy,
Chinese and Japanese cooking (tasting encouraged),
Japanese origami, Chinese paper crafts and Japanese

¢ summer kimono wearing. There will also be two student

presentations. A traditional Japanese “Bon” dance un-
der the Red House trees will end the day.

ﬁg W&L-T-shirts with the university’s name in'Chi-

nese and Japanese will be on sale. For more informa-
tion, call Janet Ikeda at 463-8936.

Sen. John McCain to speak at

'13 VMI commencement

Senator and recent presidential hopeful John
McCain will speak at Virginia Military Institute’s com-
mencement, joining class of 2001 Valedictorian John-
Henry J. Niederhaus at 11 a.m., Sunday, May 19.

County planners recommend

approval for new Lowe’s

Despite some hesitation, the Rockbridge' County
Planning Commission voted unanimously to recom-
mend that the board of supervisors rezone property

* near Wal—Mart so that a Lowe’s Home Improvement

Warehouse can be built.

The proposed store design is smaller than
orignially planned and calls for additional landscap-
ing. Lowe’s would be one of several additions in the
area, which include a new car wash, a Wingate Hotel
and a Ruby Tuesday.

   

24/7: W&L’s WEEI<I.Y cAI.ENI)AR

Today I
7 p.m.—Javapalooza. Agents of Good Roots.
Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad.

7 p.m.—-Lecture., Prof. Dale Kent, UCR. “Cosimo
de’ Medici: Florentine Patron.” Room 214, Science
Center.

7:30 p.m.—-Lecture. Dr. Andrzej Paczkowki. “Na-
zism and Communism in the Experience and Memory
of Poles.” Room 114, Science Center.

Tuesday, May 15 . 2

N oOn—Luncheon/Lecture. Florin Berindeanu,
University of Georgia. “The Practice of Mysticism:
Mystical Ideas in Medieval and Renaissance Italy.”
Room 114, Science Center.

7 p.m.—Lecture presentation. Dr. J. Christopher
Haney. “Why, Older Forests Are Important.”

' N orthen Auditorium.
Wednesday, May 16

7 p.m.—Politics Filrnfest. “Rollerball” (USA 1975).
Room 221, Williams School.

Thursday, May 17

7:30 p.m.—Lecture. Ross Terrill, Harvard. “The
New Chinese Empire.” Northen Auditorium.
Friday, May 18

All Day—Trustee Meetings.

7 :30 p.m.— Film Society. “You Can Count on Me”
(US A, 2000). Troubador Cinema.

Saturday, May 19

All Day-—Trustee Meetings.

10 a.m.——China-Japan Day celebration. Red
House (rain site: Room 1 14, University Center). A

7:30 p.m. Film Society. Film Society. “You Can
Count on Me” (USA, 2000). Troubador Cinema.

READY, SET, (:0. The W&L law class of 2001, minutes before becoming the university’s newest alumni.

Law stents raduate

By Matthew McDerrnott

EDITOR IN CHIEF

Many Washington and Lee undergraduates got their
first glimpse of a law student Sunday as 119 of them
gathered on the Front Lawn to commence graduation.

The graduates, 70 men and 49 women, were awarded
juris doctorates by Law School Dean David Partlett
and University President John Elrod.

“Ouf Law School’s proudest moment comes when
we gather to recognize the achievement of our stu-
dents,” Partlett said.

The graduating law class of 2001 will join legal firms
from California to New York. Several dozen will work as
public defenders or prosecutors. Twenty-three gradu-
ates will clerk for state and federal court judges.

Over the past two years, the Law School has had
a 95 percent placement rate, one of the highest in the
country.

The year’s commencement speaker was Richard But-
ler, former United Nations Economic and Social Coun-
cil president. Formerly Austra1ia’s ambassador to Thai- '
land and the United States, Butler also served as direc-
tor of UN SCOM, a special U.N. commission that over-

photo by Alison Trinidad/news editor

saw Iraq’s disarmament.

Graduation activities began Friday, with an afternoon
awards reception on the Sydney Lewis Hall Front Lawn.
The next day graduates enjoyed a noon barbecue and
an evening display of ﬁreworks, with champagne.

IFC asks faculty to delay vote on alcohol

By Michelle Lally

S TA FF WRITER

The Alcohol Task Force met again
Wednesday with students and teachers to
review their recommended alcohol policy
changes and to address existing concerns.
lnterfratemity Council President Quincy
Springs kicked off the meeting with a pre-
sentation outlining reduced alcohol arrests,
reduced Inﬁrmary visits and fewer damages
done to the fraternity houses since new IFC
policies were ingplenierrtedin late January.

Arrests are down 50 percent, while alcohol
related infirmary visits are down 25 percent,
said IFC representatives. Stop-ln sales, which
the IFC considers representative of in—town
alcohol sales, on Alumni Weekend were $2000
less than last year, and Fancy Dress Weekend
sales were $873 less than last year.

IFC Junior Justice Chris Pickens
added that Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard was pleased with student behav-
ior overall since January.

Springs urged faculty and students
present to take these facts into account
and consider postponing additional regu-
lations at this time.

“We feel that our policies should be
given more time,” said Springs.

The Forum, which broke into small dis-
cussion groups, was directed by Dean of
Students David Howison. Howison in-
structed the groups to focus their exchange
on the three—strike system for individuals,
the three-strike system for groups and the
punishment for driving while intoxicated.

Many individuals voiced concern that
the strike system was unbalanced. Chem-
istry Instructor Elizabeth Cox said she
found the strike system baftling and per-
haps poorly weighted.

‘‘I’m confused about if all the things
that are listed as a strike are equal in
weight,” she said. ‘‘It doesn‘t seem to be
a true strike system.”

Washington and Lee Attorney
Leanne Shank conceded that the pro-
posal might need tweaking before being
fully implemented.

“Maybe mandatory sentencing needs to
be looked at or eliminated," Shank said.

Associate Dean of Students Buddy
Atkins said that he didn’t believe in a system
that punished severely for lesser offenses.

“It would be a travesty to write rules that
are for a series of trivial things,” said Atkins.

Further confusion arose over the fact
that driving under the influence was listed
both as a strike and as an offense worthy

of suspension. Students questioned
whether the school should try a student
for a DUI when the state of Virginia already
has legal jurisdiction.

Romance Languages Professor Jeff
Barnett explained that taking responsibil-
ity for illegal actions often means punish-
ment from multiple directions. _

“I don’t see any problem with dual pun-
ishments,” he said. “That’s a part of being
part of an organization.”

Senior David Sigler noted that the
ATF policy proposal calls for no sus-

pension or similar punishmentfor fac- I H

ulty DUI infractions.

“We call ourselves a community, but
then different rules are written for different
groups,” said Sigler. “It just seems unfair.”

Barnett explained that the faculty is en-
couraged by the adIninistration’s steps to
combat the alcohol environment at W&L.
He said the faculty has seen many trag-
edies over the years directly related to al-
cohol use and welcomes policy changes
that might lessen the chance of such events
occurring in the future.

Senior John Jensen, former president
of Sigma Chi fraternity, countered that
these policy changes threaten student
autonomy.

“What I don’t like about (the ATF pro-
posal), is that it’s taking away from stu-
dent responsibility,” he said. “As president
of a fraternity in the IFC, I think it’s our
turn to run with the ball.”

Executive Committee President Rob
Naftel said that IFC rules should be given
more time to prove their effectiveness.

“I think it hasty to put these new rules in
place when they haven’t been tested,” he said.

Barnett explained that voting for the new
system is taking place now. The rules will
_be‘i_n place for next year’s freshmen. Stu-
dents, however, seemed to agree that IFC
policies have changed W&L and next
year’s freshmen would encounter a W&L
campus different than that of a year ago.

IFC Secretary Tarik Bateh said that the
IFC is currently working on a counter pro-
posal to remind the faculty and trustees
that IFC rules have already achieved the
goals and objectives that the ATF recom-
mendations set out to promote.

Pickens summed up the forum by say-
ing that the IFC is still hoping tI1ey’1l be
given more time. »

“Ideally, we’re looking for a delay of the
faculty vote,” he said, “or for the faculty to
vote down the new policies so our rules
can prove their effectiveness.”

Trustees meet  
this weekend

By Alison Trinidad

NEWS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Board of Trustees is
scheduled to have its second of three yearly meet— “
ings this weekend. Issues slated for discussion in-
clude the Alcohol Task Force policy recommenda-
tions, faculty reappointments and a progress review
of current capital projects.

The nine standing committees will meet begin-
ning Thursday afternoon and report to the entire
Board on Saturday. .

The Campus Life Committee will be reviewing the rec-
ommendations of the Alcohol Task Force as presented by
University President John Ehod and Executive Committee
President Rob Naftel. The Board is expected to develop a
general policyon substance abuse at W&L based on
these recommendations. The Capital Projects Committee
must review the status of different projects, including the
remodeling of Reid Hall and Law School classrooms. It
will also review plans for construction of the new Univer-
sity Commons and Doremus/Warner Fitness Center.

Two new trustees, Chris Ball and John Klinedinst
(’71, ’78L), will join 30 others on Thursday afternoon.
From Jacksonville, Fla., Ball is active in her community
as well as with secondary and higher education, said
Associate Director of Development James Farrar.
Klinedinst, an attorney practicing in San Diego, comes
from Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.

At the end of the meetings, Trustee J. Hardin
Marion (’55, ’58L) will retire after serving two con-
secutive terms. Marion will gain Emeritus status,
which means he is invited to any board meeting but!)
not allowed to vote.

The trustees are ultimately responsible for gov-
erning and managing the University as an institu-
tion. They meet once every February, May and Oc-
tober. Each trustee is chosen by the Board and
serves five—year terms.

.sv'

 

PAGE 2

O

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬂhi

PINION

    

Bush blunders with bilingual address

Recently, during his weekly radio address, President
George W. Bush committed the first noticeable mistake of
his otherwise brilliant administration. He delivered the
address in both English and Spanish.

The address, which was given on Cinco de Mayo,
concerned the President’s appreciation for Hispanic cul-
ture and spoke of how much he had learned from and
enjoyed Texas’ Hispanic culture. Bush’s well—meaning
outreach is part of the Republican Party’s effort to at-
tract minorities. In the election, Hispanics, now the
nation’s largest minority group, voted between 31 and
35 percent for Bush. If they were to vote only half as
heavily for Democrats as blacks do, national and most
statewide elections would be unwinnable. Unfortu-
nately, this outreach is misdirected and represents the
greatest misstep made by Republicans in this election
cycle.

America already has a problem with secondary lan-
guages. President Bush doesn’t need to exacerbate the
situation. The California Driver’s License examination is
given in over 30 languages. You can be assured that Bush’s
gesture will lead to outcries of equality from those who
speak Urdu, Sioux, Swahili or one of the other 300-plus
languages spoken in the United States. New York spent
$1.1 million in the last ﬁscal year on 911 call translators.
Government pandering to foreign language interest groups
is both an economic drain and an insult to immigrants who
have taken the time to learn English, an incredibly difﬁcult
language to master.

The most insidious result of the govemment’s acqui-
escence to gitchy—goo multiculturalism, however, is the
balkanization of America. By making minority groups and
young non-minority schoolchildren focus on their native
cultures, one necessarily ignores or neglects to cultivate
their pride in America and American culture. As a nation,
we run the risk of becoming merely a collection of oppos-
ing culturally-defined interest groups, rather than a strong,
united nation committed to American principles of truth,
justice and liberty.

One can already see some of the negative effects of
our nation’s obsession with multiculturalism. The race
riots which destroy urban centers,

photo courtesy Yahoo! Pricture Gallery

HABLA INGLES. Bush should praise those who learn English, not pander to those who don’t.

America is a nation of immigrants, but previous immi-
grant waves, those of our grandparents, were success—
fully assimilated. Poles, Italians,

overwhelmed and underperforming - . Slavs and Jews all learned to speak
public schools, voter apathy and in- Right of the A1816 English and attended schools which
creasingly bloated government bu- Brett Kirwan ’()4 taught only in English and recited

reaucracies are all examples of the

negative effects that a nation forgetting its common cul-
ture and language can suffer. Hawaii, a state with a siz-
able minority speaking a second language, has an inde-
pendence movement. Puerto Rico, which largely speaks
another language, repeatedly votes against becoming a
state. A common language and culture are America’s
greatest uniting force.

ote of the week:

I think people everywhere
prefer blondes because
we’re just better. I’d prefer
a man with blonde hair so
we’d have cute children.

— Anonymous blonde friend of
equally anonymous brunette Phi
W&Life editor

77

 

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂlti

Editor in Chief
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor

Matt McDerm0tt
Mike Agnello
Alison Trinidad
Brett T. Kirwan
Amy Blevins
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell
Katie Howell
Mary Guy

Staff Photographer Meg Ferrara

Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://www.wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

the Pledge of Allegiance at the be-
ginning of each school day.

Bush’s, and the GOP’s, ludicrous effort to court
minorities by speaking their language will not work.
Instead, Republicans should offer a program that
works. Bilingual education condemns minority chil-
dren to a life as second-class citizens. Such programs
fail to teach students English, and their academic per-

formance suffers in every category. California, the state
which had the most aggressive bilingual education
program, abandoned it in 1998. In the state, bilingual
education was a complete failure. It is essential to
speak English to be truly successful in America to-
day. Bush should admit this and no longer support a
program which does11’t work in the hope of winning a
few more minority votes.

What Republicans and Bush should do is appeal to
all Americans as Americans. They should invite people
of all ethnicities to take a full part in the American
Dream. They should accentuate the strength of a
united peoples, not focus on our divisions and differ-
ences. ”

New AT F recommendations
are vague, arbitrary

The administration should try
to obey state law, not save face

Chances are, sometime in the last week the recommen-
dations of the Alcohol Task Force have been brought up,
and duly dismissed as unenforceable, mean-spirited or
outrageous. But the more important issue is how vague
and misleading the recommendations are.

First off, there is the question of discussion. In the
opening paragraph of the report, the

stander) wants to ruin a college career because of a drunk
in public citation?

Also, the level of the sanctions increases dramati-
cally from “moderate sanctions with primary emphasis
upon education and counseling” to suspension for a full
semester. The report leaves the exact definition of what
“moderate” might consist of to the imagination. Hope-
fully, these sanctions are determined based on the na-
ture of the offense, but if that was the implication, it was
concealed well.

Then too, there is the refer-

ATF expresses the hope that every-
one involved in the University will
join in discussing the recommenda-
tions listed. Despite this, parents of
students have yet to receive copies of the report.

However, there are more serious questions related to
the recommendations themselves. In many cases, the rec-
ommendations appear to be either vague or draconian,
with far too much left unsaid. For example, the entire policy
regarding drinking within non-Greek student organizations
is left as something to be elaborated on later by an un-
speciﬁed person, and is completely devoid of any actual
recommendations. Granted, drinking in non-Greek organi-
zations is rather limited, but the idea of the report was to
make the actual recommendations, not recommend that
they be made.

In a sharp contrast to that, the implication of the three
strikes rule seems to be that, regardless of how trivial the
offense is, after three strikes you must ﬁnd a new alma
mater. This puts appearing in public drunk on the same
level as drinking and driving.

The sheer level of arbitrary action implied by this
raises doubts as to whether the rule would be properly
enforced. After all, what police officer (much less a by-

 

“It’s not fair.”
—Rachel Mallis ‘O4

SharperFou1s

Meg Ferrara ’04

until July or August.”

ence to parental notification.
What does this mean? Will some-
one write home to tell your par-
ents that you have been naughty,
or do they call them? Moreover, what does the “edu-
cation” consist of?

Besides, what about just enforcing the Virginia state
laws? If the administration wanted to crack down on drink-
ing on campus, it might start by enforcing those
downplayed laws. Consider the penalty for just being in
possession of alcohol while under the legal age: a manda-
tory ﬁne of $500 and possible loss of your driver’s license
for a year. How about that as a way to deal with the drink-
ing problem here at W&L?

This, in the end, brings to light the chief difficulty of
this report, that is, what a small role the Virginia state law
plays in it. Too often, the emphasis seems to be on behav-
iors that could result in public embarrassment for the Uni-
versity, without attending to student welfare. This par-
ticularly comes across in rules that make no mention of
the possession of alcohol by a minor, or of the dangers of
drinking and driving.

Do we really need another tragedy before we take seri-
ously the effects that alcohol has on our lives?

—Eric Ritter ‘O4

-Satomi Hagiwara ’04

“Other schools don’t have Spring Term.”

MAY 14,2001 ,.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
      
   
     
   
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

Q gf‘{orise,‘fo:1idoublei secre pr, g ,
appropriate behavior willie no ’

 

 

“They have made a mistake.” ‘A;
—Dan Vos ‘04

 

-_

 

 

MAY 14, 2001

  W&E

2 Ring-tum iﬁhi

IFE

 

PAGE 3

photo by Alison Trinidad/news editor

LOOK AT ME. Liam Bent, 2-year-old son of Art Professor George Bent, shows off
the face-paint rainbow he received at the Kid’s Carnival. The event was
sponsored by Omnicron Delta Kappa, a service organization founed at W&L.

 

the rumors are true!

Javapalooza presents

Agents of Good Roo

 

F May 14
7:30—10sp.m.
Baker—Davis—Gilliam Quad

Java will be serving hot and cold coffee drinks, as well as

ice cream from SWEET THINGS.

Bring a blanket and bring your friends

for a music-ﬁlled night under the stars!

Twins graduate W&L, VMI

Sisters become
closer through
college despite

different schools

By Amy Blevins
W&LIFE EDITOR

One student wakes up every morning
to military formations and the barracks.
Another student wakes up to the colon-
nade. While Virginia Military Institute and
Washington and Lee sit side by side, how
much could these two students have in
common? They’re twin sisters for start-
ers.

In the first year of VMl’s graduating
class to include women, twin sisters Ali-
cia and Alexis Abrams will be walking
with the W&L and VMI class of 2001.

The Abram sisters did not plan to end
up right next door to each other, but look-
ing back they are

how teenagers are when they are in high
school, they are ready to set out and ex-
perience new things on their own,” said
Alexis. “Well, I thought that I was going
to be able to do that and then my sister

tells me she’s go-

both thankful. ing to go to college

Alexis knew she AS Soon as “Hell right next door to
wanted to attend ” me, that kind of
VMI by December Week StartCd hare at bummed me out.
;f,;;f;f;;;;°;k§g; VMI, I was thanking God 31;; ,1“ 5::
set on her college everyday that I had a started here at VMI
Alicia was still Sister next door [was thanking God
looking for a small ' everyday that I had
school that offered — Alexis Abrams a sister next door.”

a good Air Force
ROTC program.
Alicia ran across W&L at a college fair.
“I was offered a scholarship and after
doing some research, found out it was
one of the top liberal arts college(s)
around,” said Alicia.

At first the idea of attending college

right next door to Alicia seemed strange

for Alexis.

“My sister and I did not make our col-
lege decisions together. If anything, I
think that at first I was trying to get as far
away from her as possible. You know

S

y} Alexis plans to

work for the U.S.
Postal service next year in Portland, Ore.
in the Office of Inspector General. Alicia
plans to go to the Air Force for Officer
Training School.

Over the years they have lived con-
siderably different lives. At W&L, Alicia
enjoys more freedom from rules than her
sister. “They have so many (rules) at VMI
that cadets must live by and I don’t. I get
up when I want, eat when I want, skip
class if I want . .. They have very restricted
lives there,” said Alicia.

 

Ring-tum Phi File Photos

WORLDS APART. Twins Alexis and Alicia Abrams graduate this year from VIVII
and W&L respectively. This is VMI’s ﬁrst four year rotation of females.

Despite the differences in lifestyle, the
two sisters say they have grown even
closer together in the past four years.
“When all the family you’ve got is next door,
you really learn to appreciate that,” said
Alicia. “Plus, we’re twins  we’ll always
have that close, ‘special’ relationship.”

“I do not find it hard to identify with
my sister at all,” said Alexis. “I can talk to
her about the things that go on here at
VMI and she will understand com-
pletely.”

Have they ever thought about what it
would be like to attend their sister’s college?

“Sometimes I do wonder what it would
be like to be a regular college student, to
wear whatever I want, and not have to
follow a military regimen each day, but
then I wake up and realize that I love my
school and I wouldn’t exchange the ex-
periences I have received her for any-
thing,” said Alexis.

“VMI is not me  I don’t have to go
there to see what it’s like  I know, and
have no burning desire to experience a
day ‘there whatsoever,” said Alicia.
“I’m glad (in certain regards) that I went
to W&L. I’m most glad about the fact
that I got to experience my college years
with my sister.”

    
 
  

 
 
  
  
   

 

V r

1;:

ii

i

eMen’stennfis team falls in regional ﬁnal

PAGE 

By Dave Crowell

:ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

One week ago, the Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team faced Mary
Washington College and won convinc-
ingly 7-2.

In the Atlantic South Regional ﬁnal,
the rematch between the two squads
held higher stakes, with the winner ad-‘
vancing to the NCAA Division HI Na-
tional Championships.

Same opponent, similar results.

The Generals, host of the regional, fol-
lowed a 9-0 defeat of Salisbury State on
Friday aftemoon with an 8-1 defeat of the
Eagles. W&L now will travel to the Na-
tional ChampionshipsatTrinity University,
in San Antonio, Texas, next weekend.

._.
. ‘VJ

“w

.5

In the semiﬁnals, the Generals easily
outplayed Salisbury State and moved
their record to 19-2 on the season. W&L
won all six singles matches and ﬁnished
the sweep with three doubles victories.

W&L was led by junior Melissa
Hatley. The Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Player of the Year won her N o. 1
singlesmaIch6—1,6-1.Hat1ey alsoteamed
with sophomore Erika Proko -— a 7-5, 6-
2 winner at No. 2 singles —— for an 8-2
victory at No. 1 doubles.

“I think we did so well because we
were excited,” Hatley said. “It deﬁnitely
helped. We were ready to go in our
matches.”

The Generals used their rolling en-
thusiasm on Saturdayaftemoon’ to dis-
appoint Mary Washington for the sec-

ond time in seven days. In the ﬁnal, Proko

and classmate Laura Bruno led W&L. ‘_j,» said. “It was a good match and I’m sure

Proko won her N o. 2 singles match 6-1,
6-2 in addition to an 8-1 doubles victory,
again teaming with Hatley. ‘

Brlmo avenged an earlier defeat to? _

V Mary Washington’s Ashley Knapp with
a hard—fought 0-6, 6-2, 6-4 victory at No. '
3 singles. Inlast weekend’s action, Bruno L i

fell by a score of 7-6, 7-5. =
Bnmo also teamed up with junior Sallie
‘Gray Strang at No. 2 doubles. The duo
easily disposed of the Eagles with an 8-
1 victory. ‘

Hatley faced a tough defeat for the
second time against the Eagles’ Lea
Schon. Despite the 6-0, 6-4 defeat,
Hatley held high hopes for next week-
end

dhe ﬂing.-tum iifﬁhi ‘ L

f‘Generals tennis storms way ationals

_, “team is still unsure of its opponent, but

Eagles knocW

By Jeremy Franklin

' SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wOmen’s lacrosse team ended
a record—setting season on Saturday with a 10-6 loss to

Mary Washington in- the first round of the NCAA)Nomen’s

Lacrosse Tournament in Salisbury, Md.

Senior attacker 'Br«id’get Geiman’s four goals for the
Eagles were too much for W&L to overcome. Freshman
midﬁelder Lee Wheeler and junior midﬁelder Courtenay
Fisher scored two goals apiece for the Generals,who set a
school record for wins in 2001.

W&L finishes the season with a 15-4 record that,,included-
a nine—garne winning streak and an ODAC Championship.

“They have more depth than we do, and they’re deﬁ-
nitely a very good team,” W&L head coach Jan Hathom
said or the Eagles. “Our lack of depth yesterday deﬁnitely
made a difference. Not to discredit Mary Washington, but
we also had a lot of turnovers, so we didn’t help our-
selves.” r

Geiman scored an unassisted goal just 25 seconds into
the match. After Mary Washington sophomore Pam
Kramer upped the advantage to 2-0 at 25:58, Geiman added
another goal just 26 seconds later.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team avenged
a regular-season loss to Swarthmore on Saturday before
. falling to Washington College in the finals of the NCAA

V ‘Atlantic South Regional on Sunday in Chestertown, Md.

9

Borges selected to play in IWLCA, All-Star game

By Je_remy_Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Senior attacker Liz Borges capped off a season of honors this
week with her selection to play in the IWIEA Division III Noith/

,3 South Women’s Lacrosse All-Star Game in Baltimore on June 9.

tBorges’ other 2001 recognition includes being named to the
All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference First TeamandAll-ODAC
Tournament Team, two selections as ODAC Player of the Week,
and Division HI National Player of the Week status for the week of
March 19. . '”
“Obviously, it is nice to get the honors, but I am more excited
with how theteamis doingthanthe individual sniff,” Borges said.
"The team is an amazing bunch ofgirls, and I think one of the

reasons that we have done so well is because we get along so well.

on and off the ﬁeld.”

The Generals, who lost to Mary Washington by a 10-6 score in
the ﬁist round of the NCAA playoffs on Saturday, ﬁnished the
season 15-4, setting a school record forwins in the process.

“We had no expectations at the beginning of the  and

7

   

    

ile Photo

Ring-mm P/ll
PLAYOPF PERFORMANCE Junior Courtenay Itisher
(center) scored two goals agaimt Mary Washington,
and clzssmate Emily Owens added one.

-» The Generals, who lost to the Eagles 17-6 on March
24, played a much better mental game, according to
Hathorn. 0

“The number-one thing is that we kept our compo-
sure,” Hathom said. “We got down early the first time we
played them, and they took us out of our game. Saturday,

‘ The Generals, who lost to the Garnet Tide 4-3 at home
on April 1, knocked off Swarthmore 4-1 in Chestertown.
Freshman N o. 3 seed Austin Kiln topped Justin Singer 6-
3, 6-4. At ﬁfth-seed singles, freshman K.C. Schaefer edged
Frank Visciano 6-4, 6-4, and junior sixth‘.-seed Rob
Moynihan knocked off Scott Grant 6-2, 6-2.

The Generals took all three doubles matches for their fourth
point. Juniors Rhys James and Andrew Roberts handed Schilla

that helps as well,” Borges said “Everyone on  team is so
dedicated and encouraging to everyone else. I would not,have all
the individual honors if my teammates were not as good as they
are. ,
“Our defense is so strong and our transition game has gotten M

very strong as well. All I have to do in my position is put the ball in
the net.”

Watson, Hegg fail to qualify
for NCAA Championships 9

Senior Marc Watson and junior Mike Hegg fell short of quali-
fying for the NCAA Division III Championships with their perfor-

mances at the Jalnes Madison Invitational, held Saturday in

Harrisonburg.

Watson’s season-best time of 10.82 seconds in the 100-nieter 2
dashlandedhiminsixthplace. Hegg placed sixthirrthe 110-rneter
high hurdles atatimeof 16.32 seconds. ‘

W&L’s team competition ended April 28 with a fourth-place
ﬁnish at the ODAC Championships, hosted by Bridgewater.

&L ot of playoffs

,3 We were able to stick to our game plan.”
« from junior Briana Gervat, senior Jenni Foy, and junior

: freshman Kelly Taffe scored with 11 seconds left before
halftime to trim the lead back to 6-3. “

" 2.86 earned run average. The Pennsylvanian tossed seven ‘com-

 
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

‘ﬁr.

0

MAY 14, 2001

“Lea Schon is a good player,” Hatley

it will prepare me for the tournament.”

Other winners in singles competition
on Saturday included sophomores
Alyson Brice and Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth and freshman Liz Law. Law
teamed with fellow freshman Ellie
Simpson for an 8-4 victory in No. 3
doubles. ,

The resounding victory left the Gen-
erals with a 20-2 record and one of eight
automatic berths to San Antonio. The

I feels ready to match last year’s third—place
ﬁnish. 
“We’re"real1);ex.(:ited about  to “ photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
g0;’Hat1ey Said_ “we allbeﬁeve we have SAN ANTONIO BOUND. Junior Sallie Gray Strang returns a shot in her
a good shot, if we play our hardest.” doubles win with sophomore Laura Bruno against Salisbin'y State.

we knew better than to be intimidated by them. Therefore,

Wheeler scored her two goals, both unassisted, over
the next 7:11 to cut the Eagles’ lead to 3-2. However, goals

Meghan Twomey gave Mary Washington a 6-2 lead. W&L

Fisher’s first goaltof the contest, which came with 24:51
remaining in the second half, cut the score to 6-4, but the
Generals would come no closer.

Freshman Joanna Perirri made 14 saves in net for W&L; her
counterpart, senior Heather Carter, stopped 12 shots for the Eagles.

Although disappointed that the season came to a close, Hathom
 hertegn exceeded anyone’s expectations in 2001.

‘‘I’m proud of the girls, their work ethic, their pride,
their team chemistry,” said Hathom, who has coached the
team since the program’s inception in 1988. “They’re an
excellent group of women who are very dedicated to what
they’re doing, and it’s a pleasure to coach them.

“(Qualifying for the NCAA Tournament) is not what
we necessarily set out to do, but we knew in the back of
our minds that it was a possibility. The intangible things
were what made the difference.”

and Thomas an 8-4 loss at the top seed. Kim and freshman
Graham Nix defeated Grant and Jayson Yost 8-4, and Schaefer
and junior Zacﬁ/uncannon knocked offV1sciano and Singer 8-5.

  

«R

W&L was unable to avenge another regular-season loss
on Sunday, dropping a 4-0 decision to host Washington.

Kim and Nix produced W&L’s only victory of the day,
an 8-6 win over Bait Prytula and Peter Taylor at No. 2 doubles.

W&L ﬁnishes the season with an Overall record of 13-6.

Sigler,4;H‘anson named .
to All-ODAC baseball squad

Senior pitcher David Sigler and sophomore shortstop Michael
Hanson were named to the All—Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

T ence teams on Wednesday.
Sigler received ﬁrst-team honors, posting a 6-2 record and a

plete games, including two shutouts, striking out 48 batters in 66
innings pitched. Sigler was also named Fnst Team All-ODAC in
1999. He holds,nine W&L pitching records, and is second in
career strikeouts with 214 and fourth in ERA at 3.62.

Hanson was nalned to the second team for the second con-
secutive year. The sophomore batted .379, leading the team in
eight rriajoroffensive categories, including a .647 slugging per-
centage and 29 runs. Hanson was also 2-0 with a 1.65 ERA in
16. 11 innings of work "

W&L ended the season 23-8, setting a school record for
wins. Inthe ODAC, the Generals were 9-7, ﬁnishing inﬁfthplace.

T Summer Camp
Counselor Jobs

Looking for a challenge, fun and the best
summer of your life?

1‘)

 
 
 
  
    
       
    
     
     
    
   
   
    
    
     
        
     
    
   
     
     

   
   
   
    
     
     
    
   
    
    
     
    
    

   

 

. 3:i.e<:<rgeti.:>wtt1.a ._   ..  . a .  . I _
treat. ifﬁrtgttm froth rt’a.rt% so ii;.:rrt  lf,a?~sti;:l-:ttat:a:et trad ttraiergitltlltrate .. ’
it , .; ‘ 5: . . zi . . =. . . I ,. .
try ’:£§;§I§£$(°:§f’3é'_'i¥,f§3,§’§&;§; .t,:1'i',=:=:.;i.':;t? C  t§i§g.:l..I”15{?t;;§ titres ifA2.t3T§‘r‘¥;3§litét’2§’§§Z s>eri.:~irr;.¥.t&&s. \

 

tr

 t§titr‘i§i§’tfa§g~.;.,’§f  arirtirsgitzs K.§§'§§_T:t}ii°l;i.t‘§t£'§“ t”<;Ts :':%tt.ilt;i§5' at

éfé!..§Yfi£11é'E‘.E‘ t.i,sir:i«:m

 

'=*a7s§e;.{ til . exam-

 

@

at:

§5§t~s.:.t‘:i:lx.i 3”?a:2;2sitr:‘1: lttlrjg ‘E?  .f‘§i.*«i.l_§;_',j*é.t.“£i.. 1?}

  ’*"ii:ir.t'z:;  .2?  iime 15
First: :ZN.iit‘i‘.!.~2»‘§»"§t1;\,1”‘:’t:=,iL§il'i.t:* 4  ;i’t.l.i’§>;? 

 

  
 
  

~  C.Zt;.atritttiing Ex;it£€£itiatI3t‘t
, y . I .   -

j Kali  tide’ ti, tiéki”.-’é§ii}§§ ca visits »t:7tl,;ir welxtite i“,9§’.‘itf‘ti’tr§l’s’;
. {firs-e:;r:lrnji1e;iir3t.a5irag; is z§Zii§£}‘&i‘¢«’§£7§.fEE£§§.‘I‘Vi§‘.§?i ~‘

Varsity

    

       

  

 

Camp Easter Seal in Virginia has job
openings for camp counselors, program

instructors for aquatics, horseback riding,
adventure and sports.

g Work with children and adults with
disabilities in abeautiful outdoor setting.
Staff come from across the US and
around the world.

Room,~board, salary provided.

-K
V;

Camp Easter Seal

0 20500 Easter Seal Drive
Milford, VA 22514.

" (804) 633-9855.

www.campeasterseal-va.org ,

0‘ Email: dbrown@va.easter-seaIs.org

