 

«9 53-755?

  

   
 
 

.iAiw»'e G. l_E“t'E§1. we.-: i_.ir5a'i.e.rr‘r

     

  

 

 

 

R3551  '-(:3. a M 1  our-rvrea:3i“rv
V’ M (1   '   Trir l“'F‘D'F“{’l1’\’("IIr r 181)? flltkitx“ 1 \" P}l1\§’I11Ft3L‘ 1 1   1 111‘ 1"‘    l‘i-  
w I‘ .1V1l‘~lbl>F-)1: M a . ._;i.iA_R rirznnz INDEX
;’\iAl’Pll.(_)l~’1~1lA‘1l1. (13 Prior. 3 O I “J G
»  .,=,,.,- N , T "N r , 7 .1 v   7 .. PIN <j.i  3
,   WASHll\i(:TOl\ AM) LEE Ul\ilVERSlTl   -
ARO1_,’,NI)'l"l'llT. i<':oi:< ‘ii--i‘ \1\v &L£l‘l: 13
\ )
i\l(‘r\J( )l.‘\ )(xl_.1l1'1.l‘i Sp(’)R'r‘g 
i . .
IOHN Q <I)P.«\(;r; 5 - /7 , ._ .  -
V ~ ~  S 
G'l?‘.()R.(}l?‘ i'<i*z\*i:=I,\\~'*s 1 \\ Fig} R home 13>
\1\1"1A$l’El>J(}'l"<‘)N1S 24/ -/ ~«
ﬁr i.ATi=:sT 1411.711
1  \5'i‘i;.i':i.:;1;(.'lV,;\7r,=.Xxl l.E}£lN{{I'(ii\‘, 1»-"1§R(‘»l.’\'§.»‘.2~"é'«i5l1l 1‘10ND-"\"r}111-11'-E-34,30113
it 1 '
ON THE MOVE -
ld V l 1
. Wor tra e er 331' fgmpg
‘ 8 ; 5 O
' to address &L  lO1lI1 6
Jack Wheeler passes through Lexington g
I‘ . al d _ _ ak - BY PETER QUACKENBUSH The deer cut itself while pass-
BY ANDREW LATIMER eaheh 1111 ehlehelhlhg She el STAFFWI EF ing through the glass; blood and
1’ ASS[S"[",\N'fQp]]\I[QNS}3D]'IOR that would be S;)1met1nng”d1fferem shards covered the floor under the
then our helm guests‘ _ _ A small wild deer, en'o in a .window. Blood stains circled the
Accomplished world traveler Wheeler 55 began his hfe as A J y e
A . . .’ ’ ’ . quiet campus, lept through a win- carpeted areas of the room and
P°1111eal Sage ahd deetel 01 Ph1' ah advehhllel at l6 when he 10111" dow into Fairf L n e on the] t spotted small sections of the car-
losophy Jack Wheeler will discuss neyed alone to South America and Saturday of ti: vigshezngmn hoe: pet
f his- extensive -dual careers in ex— the Amazon jungle, where he was day. Moore asked University Security
Plelaheh and lhlelhahehal 11113115 adopter: by 11 thee of headtlllll(;llelS' Psychology Professor Julie to provide a means of escape, but the
Tuesday hlghl 111 Lee Chapel at Relhal ably’ hls parents a few Woodzicka rid 'unior Micha l deer would not cooperate.
1 eh 7130 P'1h° qualms wlth the expedltlell’ al' Morrow wer:wall<ing by the Un‘i- “Security came and opened the
His hour—long speech, entitled though Wheeler admits that “to versity Center ‘1 0 o r S .. .
F “AnAdventurous Life,”willhardly thisday(my mother) still hasn’tﬁg- at 1 pm_ on Sat_ rTWASAMAZ[NG_(1HEDPER Woodzicka Said’
have time to scratch the surface of ured out how I talked her into that.” urday when “but the deer
his numerous exploits, which in- Even as Wheeler became . . ENIERED)lllR0llGHASlNGIl3PANEOFGLASS... -
at 1 d j  180 _ d r t, _ ,d th b It b they noticed ( jumped out the
c u evisitmg countries, evis- more ac iveinsi e e e way y the deer‘ mEN)rrrEDEr,]W1\/1PEDOUTmESrDEWH\rD0W side window...
ing the basis of‘ what would be- the early ‘80s, his hfe did not slow “Once it JUUEWOODZICKA It Survived
5 come the Reagan Doctrine to dis- down. In 1995 he armwrestled fu- Climbed onto a leap of two
mantle Soviet Russia, ﬁghting in ture Russian President Vladimir . . -
. . . . . the patio in stories onto a
e  g1lehllawaIS’huhhhghlah'eae Putlhlh e Capltel Hlllpub‘ front of Fairfax, it became disori- sidewalk and then disappeared.
lhg_ hgellh Vlethalh by hlhlselfelld At tllheewheelel S feels even ented and could not figure out how White-tailed deer, common to
‘ helhg the hlst person to skydlve seem uhbelleyahle 1? hlmse_lf' to get down,” Morrow said. Rockbridge County, often are seen on
dl1ee‘l)l\%'hh1h:’i1he N°llh_PEle' the “gehtlehlhesbllds lllie l”m leadlhg “So I guess the next logical path the fringes of campus.
e S heme hllg the a 0“ some 0 y e Se‘ t d t ' thr th ' — Assistant D' tor of Securit
C nationally known, the Contact Whilemuchofthespeechwill dciikferwas Olump ough ewm SteVeTom1inS0n1sr:iCd in all the year:
Svlillhlhlltee was eaggl 1: hllhg fzetﬁs eh ;:1e1‘1;_ieS1te:lhe eeglheés Morrow did not believe his own he has worked for the university, no
ee er to campus. ai senior o ewor , ee er so wi a - tf L - {her wild an- r h e r entered
. 1‘ committee president Samuel dress current events and offer his eyesie HS- - ~ _ O - « - mm as V6 a
_ , After it jumped through the win building.
Langholz, “Wheeler was chosen perspectives on world affairs. As dow, I was not sure that it actually ..Need1eSSto Saxrwas Surprised’
1 because we thought he looked like a political commentator, regular happened until Professor rwoodzicka amazed, and abit Shaken,» Woodzicka
a fascinating individual. When he contributor to magazines and conﬁrmed that She Saw it as wem. he Said
* was presented by one of our com- online news sites and president by    I M   Said‘ “I kept thinking .wow’ what if
lhleee lhemhels’ e1/erybeey Wis efthe Fleedenl Research leeundae I’HOIOBYM\Ri GLW'/ 772cRi‘qe-1i1znP1zi' “It was amazing—it went someone had been in the lounge—it
V 11111001 1111.0» C3111111S be 101 1031- 11011: VV1100101 13 111 1110 1111111113 P0‘ . VICTORY: W&L senior David Skeen handles a pass during the game against Pfeiffer through a sir-rg1c pane of glass,” would have made a boring meeting a
_ B11111w35 for 1e31, 3-1111 50 we at \X/ilson Field. For more sports, see page 6. Woodzicka Said, lot more in[eresting_”’
Y decided that he would be an edu— see EXPLORER) page 2 I
0 0 0 ‘
v   University Scholars increase ranks by 17
r 2002 SCHOLARS   
' Professor Peterson looked for “intelligence, Out of the 33 students who applied for the program,
Katie Abplanalp Washington and Lee’s University Scholars pro- originality, a broad view of the world and a willing— 17 were accepted.
r u RamsayArchie gram inducted 17 new members from the freshmen and ness to exchange ideas.” “We had an orientation for the new schol-
Wesley Bell sophomores. Eligible candidates had a 3.5 GPA and 'a “Of course, it’s always difficult topick new scho1— ars Wednesday night,” Cooper said. “I’m very
. Kim Bulka faculty member willing to write them a recommenda— ars,” said University Scholar Presi- pleased with the group —— it seems energetic
)3 Bethany Catron tion letter. dent Ashley Hodgson, an interviewer. and enthusiastic.”
Peter Djalaliev “I was happy with the selection process,” Greg Coo- “There are always disagreements New scholars have already begun work on designing
Christopher Gaiteri per, head of the University Scholars program, said. “It had about who should be admitted. In the new classes or Saturday enrichment programs in local
it Benjamin Hicks an enthusiastic tumout.” end, it’s really abig compromise.” schools.
Kate Houren Cooper replaces Spanish Professor John “Irememberwhatitfeltlike,andl Seven of the new scholars are men, 10 women.
Tiffany Jenkins Lambeth, who completed his four-year term in 2001- know (candidates) are nervous,” jun- Three students are international. One is an upper-
Leila Kia 2002. ior Mary Carol Mazza said. “I know classmen. 1
Erik Kiewiet De Jonge Fourteen current University Scholars and 14 (interviewers are unhappy and hesi— Interviews were set up by Hodgson and sopho-
Robyn Konkel professors volunteered‘ to interview prospectives HODGSON tant to out people.” more Matthew McDermott, University Scholars advi-
Susan Somers in three—hour slots. “I enjoyed the interview but sory board chair.
Victoria Stanham Each candidate university scholar was interviewed for thought the interviewers were intimidating at first,” said University Scholars take advanced seminars and com-
Jacob Stoehr 40 minutes by separate faculty and student panels. The freshman Katie Wall. V plete a senior thesis. W&L faculty founded the interdisci-
two panels then met afterward to discuss candidates and J “I didn’t ﬁnd the faculty as intimidating as th plinary program in 1984 to provide challenge for well-pre-
to nominate one to three of them. students,” Wall said.

pared students.

e ics team ties or |rst p ace A—bomb classhasblast1nD.C.
W&L ’[h'   ' ' °
, , . . . . . . . of the play as part of his ﬁnal project.
Remarkably similar scores raise eyebrows as University team ties with Marymount in final round 11°“ 51*” “‘’°‘‘“ , The following day students attended a
Nine past and present members of symposium in the Baird Auditorium of the
BY IMRAN N AEEMULL AH that there was “point fixing,” just that it all fore proceeding to the final round against Chcnusu-y Professor Frank settles Nuclear National Museum of Natural History, a
ASSISTANTNEWSFDUOR seemed a lmle “amazing,” . Ma1'}1II10unt..In fact, W&L performedlsowell Age class attended the award-winning play Smithsonian Institute.
b . ‘ Marymount coaches Robert Draghi and that it received a “bye” to the semi—finals Copenhagen on Fri_ and the next day’s sym— Undersecretary of the Department of
r _ _ _ Jason King did not return phone calls seek- after just two rounds, a feat also achieved posium, Energy Robert Card and Danish Ambassa-
_ 011 111° °°1111°f’e15131 15511_e of ‘‘C1‘’11 ing comment about whether they thought by Marymount, which Cooper said gave the Seven current students of Settle’s dorU1rikFederspiel opened the symposium.
K 1411315111115 31111 N311°11_31 Se°“1'11Ya” W3511‘ there was any point ﬁxing. team more time to prepare for fllrthef Q1165‘ CI-lEM195/UNIV 202 class joined two former Students also heard from eight other
11151011 and Lee,5 Ethles Bowl team lhelh‘ The statewide Coordinator for the Ethics ti0nS- students and Spanish Professor Cecile West— speakers, who addressed past and contem-
A bers 131101‘/ed them- BOWl competition, David Schwartz, also did Unlike many 911161‘ teams, which selected Settle to attend a production of Michael porary issues in physics,
Selves wlhhels' Al 11011€SP011<110 311 6-111311 111Cl1111Y- 0110 3111110111 10 P1050111 1110 C350 31111 a11SW€1 Frayn’s Copenhagen at Washington, D.C.’s Bohr’s grandson and Heisenberg’s son
1113 Fee 18_ 10111113‘ W&L’s team members praised their com- all questions, members of W&L’s team par- Kennedy Center. . gave personal accounts of their famous rela-
1he111 held 111 R1eh' petition. “While it may have been a little diS- ticipated equally. Copenhagen explores the signiﬁcance tives, remarking on the degree to which their
m°“<1g W&_L 5 ‘Cam appointing to tie, Marymount was a great team. Arnold opened every case by stating the of a 1941 meeting between Neils Bohr and relations differed from their dramatic portrayal.
:1/Sast Vletegleus etzel 31111 W0 P0110111100 10311)’ W0111111‘101 1110 P105‘ 10311115 P05111011 31111 1310501111118 0P011111g 16- Weiner Heisenberg, giants of quantum phys- The conference also afforded the op-
_ ealhs _ lelh 0 er Sure Of a Case We had IICVCI 86611 [b6f01€la” 11131115 131311111 W0111<1 Sa1’01ag0 1110 0PP05111g ics, in the epon mous Nazi-occupied city. portunit to hear Richard Rhodes, author of
. pllvale Yllglhla eel‘ P6162 Said» View P6102 W0111d S1316 1116 16311115 1113101 SeniorMic:hTolman, who took Settle’s the clas)s’s textbook, The Making of the
1 ‘P 1\‘:'Ige5» 1111111131eC1:Y11{'111g Perez further praised the overall nature points. McDerrnott would recap the argument class 1asr year, per-fcrrncd a substantial part Atgmic Bomb,
31Y111°1111 ° ege of the conference, saying, “[Despite the] ri- and give closing statements.
P1111112 101 f1151P13°e- valry between schools, everyone was re- “Several judges complimented the team
1' The 111311115 1113111‘ ally enthusiastic, on its conciseness and
hers, seniors Justin Arnold, Alicia Brandt and we or ‘to V V S df C00 er sard_
A alllld Iijiltlgyn Perez, and sopflfiomotre Mat— know a lotgof Stu_ CO0PERDFSCRlBEl)lElllEAM’SlvlEMBPRSAS peerrhe reafnas coach
t ew c ermott, put in an e ortt at team dents from the rs » “W PU1-INA also aru-rbured overall
4 cCoordinatc1>lr:nd associate professor Greg other Schools» GREAT’ SAYMleIAA:G1:;fY eAmAm success to the team
ooper ca e “amazing, tru y amazing” in a The teams ' members’ hardwurkaud
. press release from the W&L news office. were pulled ran_ GR1;r;C00pE;r commended them for
1 , Cooper described the team’s members as domly out of a hat giving up part of their
“g1e31’” 53y111g they “w°11‘e‘1 11313 31111 P111111 to go into either the “west” bracket or the February Break to attend the competition.
v9 310113 g111e1111g 3331” “east” bracket, although those designations “They worked hard, and it paid of ,”
Some» 11°We"e1’ ‘l11°511°11e‘1 W113’ the had nothing to do with the schools’ geo- Cooper said.
A number of points the W&L team scored graphic1ocauons_ when askbd about future plans, coo-
P (115101 3 P°5511’1e _150)“’35 the 53111e 35 11111 During the first four rounds of the com- per said he would like to see the competi-
111111111e1 of P011115 5°°1e‘1 by 111° petition, the schools vied for top place in their tion hosted by W&L next year, although no
1 Pu M31Y111°11111 ‘131°g311°11- _ _ _ individual brackets, and then the winners of formal steps have been taken to do so yet.
.A5 COOP“ P111 11 111 311 1111°1V1°W9 the two brackets were pitted against each “The competition has in the past been
A “Given the number of scores possible be- other in the final round. hosted by the University of Richmond,
‘Ween Z310 31111 150’ 11 11151 5e‘11115 5° 1111‘ The result of this setup was that W&L Marymount College and Randolph-Macon
’_ P10133010 11131 1113 1W0 1031115 5501133 the first went against Roanoke College, then Woman's College,” Cooper said.
531119 111111111111 °1 P011115-11 against Hollins College, beat Roanoke again “None of those schools are in the west-
COOP“ W35 53161111 1° P111111 0111’ 110W‘ in the third round, then trounced Randolph— em half of Virginia, and it would be nice to _
yr °Ve1= 11131 113 11111 11°‘ 11e°e553111Y 1’e11°V3 Macon Woman’s College in the fourth be- see a competition hosted (in this half).’’ INRJGRAPHIC BYKATIEHOWPIL/71|€R1"8'1“'"P11.011l11’11C10U1111SY1‘1i1110N11ARC111"13
 
/1

 

    

PAGE 2

MONDAY. MARCH 4, 2002

EXPLORER, from page 2

sition of possessing both expert
analysis and firsthand experience.
“But I can guarantee it (the
speech) won’t be politically correct,”
quipped Wheeler.
According to Contact Publicity
Vice Chair Dustin Olson, Wheeler’s
visit has raised the attention of local

media as well, almost as much as
former Polish President Lech Walesa’s
talk last October.

Similarly high interest has been
felt on campus. “I have been surprised
by the excitement I’ve heard on cam-
pus,” noted Langholz. “Not many
people have heard the name Jack

Wheeler, but when you read about the
remarkable life that he has lived and
the adventures that he has under-
taken, I have heard a lot of people talk-
ing about attending.”

Following the speech Walker

will attend a reception in the Alumni ,

Center.

 

E-mail news briefs

 

Legal ethics talk explores trial narratives

The Washington and Lee University Legal Ethics Insti-
tute will feature keynote speaker Steven Lubet Friday, March
1 at4:30 p.m. in Classroom B of Lewis Hall. He will lecture on
“Trial Narratives: Ethical Imagination or Imaginary Ethics?”

Steven Lubet is a professor of law at Northwestern Uni-
versity. As director of the law school’s program on Advo-
cacy and Professionalism,‘ he teaches courses on legal eth-
ics, trial advocacy, pretrial litigation and negotiation. In addi-
tion to over 50 books and articles on legal ethics and litiga-
tion, he has published widely in the areas of international
criminal law and dispute resolution.

Lubet is the author of Modern Trial Advocacy (2nd ed.,
1997), which also has been published in Canadian and Israeli
editions and has been adopted by over 60 United States law
schools. He also is co-author of Judicial Conduct and Eth-
ics (1990), which has been called the nation’s leading author-
ity on the subject judicial ethics. He has consulted with judi-
cial conduct organizations in Illinois, Washington, Florida,
Pennsylvania, VV1sconsin and Minnesota.

W&L profs. interview NYT columnist

Journalism and mass communications professors Brian
Richardson and Edwin Yoder sat down with E.J. Dionne Jr.,
a columnist for The Washington Post, on Feb. 27 to dis-
cuss journalism, politics, and more. The interview took place
in the department’s temporary studios in Mod Hall. Dionne,
a political analyst who regularly appears on numerous tele-
vision news programs and National Public Radio, was on
campus as part of the by the Fishback Visiting Writers Lec-
ture series. '

Dionne spent 14 years with The New York Times, re-
porting on local, state, national and international politics
and government. His reporting career includes stints in
Paris, Rome and Beirut. In 1990, Dionne joined The Wash-
ington Post as a reporter, covering national politics. He
began his op-ed column in 1993.

W&L German class produces ‘Der Talisman’

German students at W&L will be producing Johann
Nestroy’s play, “Der Talisman,” on Thursday and Friday,
Mar. 6-7, in Keller Theater. The play, which will be entirely
in German, begins at 8:00PM. However, an English synop-
sis will be provided at the door. Tickets are free and the
audience is encourage to come early in order to ensure
that they get good seats.

    

a°-“°

   

*6:
The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies presents:

“Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism”

 

7:30 p.m——First Annual H. Parker
Willis Lecture in Economic Policy. Dr.
Roger W. Ferguson, Jr., Vice Chair-
man, Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve System. Lee Chapel.

8:30 p.m.——Java at the GHQ. Guy
Smiley Blues Exchange. GHQ.

Tuesday, Mar. 5

12 p.m.—Poetry Reading. Irish
poet Mary O’Malley. Room 1 14, Uni-
versity Center. Attendees may charge
their dining hall lunches to the
Women’s Studies Program.

12 p.m.—All-Campus Blood Drive.
Doremus Gym. Faculty and staff are
put on a fast track.

5 p.m.—Glasgow. Endowment
Reading. Mary O’Malley, poetry.
Northen Auditorium.

7:30 p.m.—Contact Lecture. “An
Adventurous Life,” Jack Wheeler, ad-
venturer, explorer, philosopher. Lee
Chapel.

Wednesday, Mar. 6

6:30 p.m.—Leadership Seminar Se-
ries. Leading with Others: Conﬂict
Resolution. Room 205, University Cen-
ter. Facilitated by W.C. “Burr” Datz,
director of Leadership Development.

7 p.m.—-Outing Club Event. Chris
Carnuto, ass’t English prof., W&L and
author. Outing Club House.

7:30 p.m.—Outing Club Event. Bike
Workshop. Outing Club House.

8 p.m.—Alcoholics Anonymous

Meeting. Fairfax Lounge (when W&L
is in session). All W&L students, fac-
ulty/staff and the Lexington commu-
nity are welcome. Coffee is provided.

5 p.m.—Lect11re. “Liberal Judaism
in America: Reforming the Reforms,”
Marc Raphael, professor, College of
William and Mary. DuPont Hall.

Thursday, Mar. 7

7 p.m.—Echoes of the Past &
Voices of Hope: Maxine Maxwell in
Powerful One Acts Celebrating Afri-
can-American Women. Lee Chapel.

Friday, Mar. 8

4:30 p.m.——Medical Ethics Institute.
Public lecture: “Using Genetics to
Make Better People: Preventing Dis-
ease and Enhancing Normal Func-
tion,” Room A1 14, Science Center.

4:30 p.m.——Film Society. “Bam-
boozled” (USA, 2000). Directed by
Spike Lee. Troubadour Cinema.

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking
qualified undergraduate applicants to participate in a
fellowshiplprogram entitled “Defending Democracy,
Defeating Terrorism”.

The fellowship program will commence August 3-21 in Tel
Aviv and will allow participants to interact with academics,
diplomats and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan,

Turkey, and the United States. FDD fellows will be
provided with all room, board, and travel expenses.

FDD is a non—profit, non-partisan and non—ideological think
thank that promotes informed debate about politics and
positions that will most effectively abolish international
terrorism.

Questions? email to fellows@defendddemocracy.org L

For additional details and application visit:
www.defenddemocracy.org

TOYOTA

  BHCEI-'7
The Inside Story

On the outside.

E:t~*’:~a easy to see that Celica. is rar:e~»tr-ack.

Enspireri. Eat the seat vexcitenient 3:22 or: the ‘ms%»de...L:nr.‘3er the
he-r:rci. Ta lie the Celica QT-S...’¥’ograata war§<.eu:i with Ya.nia:E1a to
lauilri a ran: eat‘? eng‘ine rer:l?lir§ecl at ?3é'H}_R§3M...eq,uippe<£ it
with \£a.riab§a- Vailve Timing with EmaIligenee...a commuter
rm: <::onatanrty rn»¢::n§tt2r‘$ and zetu-ties “year: engirre ier maxi-
mum ;3e.rft:i'mian:;é:e...a ::am with two sets of laixzs to provide

two ranges of val

owar. "'l‘l1are’s

 lift. and c§:.rra§Eor: for more usable hoarse-
direct ignition for greater reﬁialiility...

ir¥i—di»u.m-tipped sparlk plugs. for .r>ed'uceci maEn'ter:.rmce....a.
sta§.nl?e—as steel exliaursi mariifti-l(i....2t waier«<:ooled oii cooler.

Arm! mated with

Teyotais 4-speed electm.nicaiEy-controlled

eutr;:«rr1zrt.i<: “Se:orr.:sh.ift’“‘, you get j!IfEkt¥§éﬁ’i§t§S—i-63:1 s‘hif:ew:it;ehee
on the steering wh%3...L3’i.r_~et. like: Fom";uila~; 1 race cars. Sweet.

I

www.gettoyota.com

  oat-lag  -Mae its easier? rtmi mi 9- 

 new {rear ioyeta stealer has a ::;g:ee:z»::iE;zl Cfs:3§3é£f_§§;?s% g:aa:§aate:
financing program availaialie rim Tayrzta fériaraeial Services;
that offers a lot of ye-.;-’r'r ar:§var:isui§§-ea.

Se if ;yt.32Lr"r:3 wirhirr at meeting of gr:a::lt.r.sit:ia:ir1...  ‘it iﬁiitl grgzriiiiitrai 
xarltiiein the past twn— yea:$...See yorar liijgtiita rizealer for =t:let§rE'§s. 7'

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2002



Cadavers’ campaigns
are cancerous to campus

Sure the dead are unattractive and smelly, but
at least they’re quiet. Unless you attend Washing-
ton and Lee, that is, where the Cadavers regularly
spraypaint or leaﬂet the campus with their logo.

The Cadavers, for those who haven’t over-
heard the whispers of temrinally ambitious fresh-
men, are W&L’s homegrown secret society.
Though less august than Ya1e’s Skulls and Bones
or UVA’s Seven Society, it supposedly holds the
keys to the kingdom of inﬁnite pelf.

Do Cadavers come from the Big Five fra-
ternities? Do they recruit pre-med students?
Do they receive one million dollars upon gradu-

~ ation? Do you really care? What matters is that
on a serni-regular basis a very attractive cam-
pus (a National Historic Landmark) is vandal-
ized. Construction signs are spraypainted, walls
are marked up and leaﬂets are entangled in
trees, where they add a touch of (offensively
neon) color. Even SUV’s in the parking garage
are not exempt from amoonlight markering.

We would be the last to deny the Cadavers’
long legacy of service to the university. Besides
an untold number of individual behests and schol-
arships, there is a tastefully decorated study room

‘ on one of Leybtn'n’s lower levels (tasteful for
the library, anyway). And, lest we forget, with-
out funding from the Cadavers, we would have
no footbridge and students would have to schlep
through a densely wooded hill to attend tailgates.

But being a big spender doesn’t give them
carte blanche to deface the campus. After all,
we don’t see Ernest Williams II, Sophie
Newcomb, or Gerry Lenfest burning their ini-
tials on the front lawn or spraypainting stock
quotes on Lee Chapel. The worst damage these
high-rollers would inﬂict on the campus is pay-
ing for, say, an ugly stone circle between the
Colonnade and the Co-op.

If the Cadavers care about the campus,
why do they deface it? Tradition isn’t a good

‘ enough answer. Single-sex education, the As-
similation Committee and minstrel shows were
once traditional too.

Yearbooks of yore listed members of the

Cadaver Society; now, the membership is ..

shrouded in secrecy. Perhaps association with
it was not always something to be ashamed of.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

“SHE’s ON HIM LIKE
WHITE ON RICE.”
—-—ANONYMOUS PHI EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

IN REFERENCE TO DEWY-EYED
SOPHOMORE GIRL

Editor-in—chief MatthewB.McDem1ott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Asst. News Editor ImranNaeemullah
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor Andrew Latimer
W&Life Editors MatthewA. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell
Alison M. 'lrinidad
MaryE-Guy
Meg Ferrara
J eb Brooks
Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers
‘Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu ‘or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the "Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi. wlu. edu

THE RlN('3-~’Il‘lE:.\'l PHI

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPlNIOl\lS EDIIOR
EMA11; Km:/ANB@wwE)U

Monologues are malarkey

This past Friday and Saturday,
“The Vagina Monologues” were per-
formed at Washington and Lee. The
proceeds from the performance ben-
eﬁted Project Horizon, a Rockbridge
County support organization for bat-
tered women. Although the end was
honorable, the means, the perfor-
mance of “The Vagina Monologues,”
were, at best, a poor decision, at
worst, a calculated attempt to infect
our campus with victimization ferni-
nism.

The Monologues are a perfor-
mance based on hundreds of inter-
views of women of all ages by the
author, Eve Ensler. She has written a
collection of speeches that, although
cheered by feminists far and wide as
a liberating examination of the oppres-
sion and demonization of the female
genitalia, are little more than a disturb-
ing celebration of female victimization
and vulgar exhibitionism.

Each of the thirteen monologues
is based, more or less, on the same
tired feminist theme: women have
been unable to discover their “true”
selves due to the oppression and mis-
understanding of men and, thank God
for Eve, they now are at peace with
and indeed celebrate their, ahem,
plumbing.

The production opens with a brief
monologue entitled “Hair.” This terri-
bly too descriptive piece teHs the sad
tale of a wife held hostage by a hus-
band who demands that she be clean-
shaven. Driven mad by his request, she
eventually takes to therapy and mar-
riage counseling. Needless to say, the
therapist had no sympathy for her,
and, of course, her husband takes up
with another partner. Relief for this
long—suffering housewife who wanted
no more than simple monogarny and
was driven mad by a heartless, insen-
sitive, unfaithful husband, was found
in an interview with the vulvacentric
Eve Ensler.

In another, entitled “The Flood,”
a story is told of a 72-year-old who
has never “seen” her vagina. As a
young adult, she had been trauma-

tized by ‘a falling out during aldate. Of "

course, her male companion was to
blame for her years of
pain and her experi-
ence, until Eve
Ensler’s liberating
feminist encounter
with her genitalia caused her to shed
tears of joy at the gift she found. In
truth, one wonders how this lady lived
for sixty or more years totally para-
lyzed by one bad memory.

In a third, the story is told of a
young girl who was raped at a young
age and suffered numerous other va-
gina-related tragedies throughout her
young life, but was set free by a not-
completely-consensual sexual en-
counter with a much older woman.
That’s right, according to “The Va-
gina Monologues,” lesbian rape is
cathartic and a useful form of therapy
for abused children.

Letter to the Editor

Alumnus defends Mailer’s courage

Dear Editor,

I hate Norman Mailer as much as the next guy, but the
“Coward of the Week” article was a bit too ﬂimsy to swallow.
First of all, while I don’t totally agree with Mailer’s comments,
it is true that there is an awful lot of reckless ﬂag waving. In
many cases, the so-called patriotism borders on jingoism.
The red, white, and blue back-patting is probably a major
contributor to what makes the U.S. a target.

Secondly, I don’t think the term “coward” really ﬁts,
since it takes some nerve to say what Mailer said. Even if
you don’t agree, “moron,” or “idiot” or “un-American

RIGHT or THE AISLE
BRETT  KIRWAN «Q4. graphic descriptions


.e

COURTESY l¥lJW7.l0}’,I>l~lRI.-lRD.l‘DU

BAD GIRL: Eve Ensler has taken a crude, crass feminist crusade around the country.

What’s even more disturbing
about this festival of “woe is me” femi-
nism is the unnecessarily graphic and
ﬂat-out pornographic manner in which
it is presented. The Monologues are
designed to be a sort of encounter
experience with the audience. The
women in attendance are meant to
come away from a performance of the
Monologues feeling uplifted, liber-

ated anifjoyfttiﬁt theiriiiewly: discov’-’*

ered favorite body part.
As such, each
monologue is full of

of everything from

masturbation to men-
struation. An audience member
quickly ﬁnds himself squirming as the
most private details of a woman are
recklessly paraded about. Each builds
upon the previous one’s level of
shock to arrive at a crescendo of the
audience gleefully shouting a particu-
larly offensive four-letter nickname for
the female genitalia. For example, one
Vagina Monologues—sponsored gath-
ering in Madison Square Garden was
marked by Glenn Close dropping to
her knees on stage and screaming the
word. Such pandering to a lady’s
baser instincts serves not to free them
from male oppression, but rather to

encourage a middle school locker
room type of sexual understanding.
A shameful side effect of the lan-
guage the Monologues employ is
than any discussion of them must also
employ similar crude and inappropri-
ate language. This coarsening of the
culture can only lead to a poorer ap-
preciation for the true value of femi-

ninity and rather than achieve the goal '
i‘ ’ of liberatiowat which the Monologues

aim, ‘will only beget further rnisunder—
standing.

Most disturbingly though, is that
the Vagina Monologues have, since
their creation, been used as a tool to
turn Valentine’s Day, the only holiday
wholly dedicated to true romance be-
tween a man and a woman, into an
occasion to lambaste men and focus
on violence against women. V—day, or
Violence Day, is a political concoction
of violent feminists and has turned a

I beautiful holiday into a crass political

examination of the already decided-
upon guilt of men as abusers and ex-
ploiters.

Washington and Lee, although
more than correct in supporting a very
valuable charity, would do well to
shielditself from this particularly odi-
ous type of male-bashing, female-vic-
tirnizing radical feminism.

Lastly, the author writes “Mailer is also credited with
pioneering “new journalism,” a form of reportage that mixes

fact with ﬁction in the retelling of events.” New J ouma1—
ism was called such because of its method of telling the

Journalism.

Activity of the Week” would ﬁt better than “coward.” If

the point of the column is simply to lash out at someone,

perhaps the title should be changed.

Sincerely,
Greg Chow ‘98 J

TALKBACK31N  IQH.  RE 

“Only the ones from

Rockbridge County.”
--Heather Knorr, ‘03

‘‘I’ve always been

afraid of townies.”
——Ken Jackman, ‘02

“Those slack-j awed
yokels never scared me.”

story, incorporating more of the author’s point of View
than traditional journalism (the ﬁction angle is tertiary at
best- an optional device, not a doctrine). I only make men-
tion of this because it is not Mailer who is credited with
pioneering this, though he was a new journalist. The most
widely recognized leader of this movement is W&L grad
Tom Wolfe. He wrote a book on it. It’s called “New Jour-
nalism.” These are things that should be checked before
going to print. Otherwise you’re just practicing Crummy

  

PAGE 3

FBI answers to
racist organization

As America uses its military power to ﬁsh out reli-
gious extremist groups worlds away in the Middle East,
it is allowing extremist groups here at home to dictate
politics and FBI policy. A bit confusing, isn’t it?

Wednesday’s Washington Post reported a bizarre
development to a string of violent attacks on Univer-
sity of Virginia students in Charlottesville. It appears
that thisydevelopment has also come to the attention of
the European-American Unity and Rights Organization.

To explain a little better, the EURO is found on the
web at www.whitecivilrights.com. It is an organization
headed by David Duke, former Ku Klux Klan leader.

So why is this case of interest to a white supremacy
group masquerading behind an important sounding
name? Because the victims of these crimes are mostly
college-age Whites. Some are Asian, but the EURO’s
newsletter fails to
mention this, as it
does not seem the
rights of Asian-
Americans are of
any interest to them. Three of the suspects in the case
are high school age African-Americans, who stated
they chose their targets because they looked different.
Hence, we can now understand why a group of this
nature would be upset by this news.

After EURO made a formal complaint, the FBI be-
gan monitoring the Charlottesville police department’s
investigation of the case.

Now we have encountered what is really trouble-
some about this incident. Why is a complaint from a
group headed by a self-proclaimed former leader of the
KKK dictating FBI policy?

As the Post reports, this is the only formal com-
plaint by any political group (and I use that term loosely
here) on the matter. The police have received other com-
plaints by those both inside and outside the community.

However, a Post quote reveals that, “They (city
ofﬁcials) say the people who have called or written e-
mails criticizing the city’s handling of the case often
used vulgar language and do not understand the law
or the nature of what happened, much less the city’s
torn emotions.”

So what is the debate here? The Post article re-
veals that EURO and its close—rninded followers wish
for these youths to be charged with a hate crime.

However, no where has it been revealed by any
reports that these teens ever said race had anything to
do with these attacks. Looking different can mean more
than skin color.

The teens’ pastor and former Charlottesville mayor,
Alvin Edwards, has three of the student suspects in his
congregation at Mount Zion Baptist Church. Edwards
stated that class, not race, lies at the root of the assaults.
Edwards went on to say, “Many local teenagers, par-

................................................................................. ..

LEEI OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

 

ticularly African-Americans, resent the university be-

cause they consider it largely inaccessible to them.”

Edwards also doubts whether race was involved
because two students who were questioned by
Charlottesville police and released without charges, are
white girls.

How then, can race be an issue when whites are
involved? The Post also spoke to many of the sus-
pects’ friends at Charlottesville High,_ which is nearly
fifty-percent white and fifty-percent black.
Students there do not support the actions of their peers,
but do not believe them to be racists. -

Meanwhile, current mayor Blake Caravati wants to
work together with the University, calling this a “teach-
able moment.”

Can we as Washington and Lee students can relate
to this situation in some ways? Are we not, collectively,
a student body that is predominately wealthier than the
local population around us? Does our University not
seem inaccessible to those outside it in the community?

This is not the time to cry for hate crime prosecu-
tion, but to reexamine, not only in Charlottesville, but
also here how town and gown relations do work, as
compared to how they should work.

Moreover, it is despicable that the FBI is wasting its
energy on a racist group’s complaint at a time when every
resource should be employed towards national security.

America is too busy at the moment to be so
wasteful. To me this seems like a lesson in class differ-
ence, an issue often ignored at home. I do not claim to
have the answer, but it is easy to sit on a pile of bank
notes and investments at the height of the academic
peak and become cold to those at the bottom.

Should not our education teach us to be more car-
ing individuals, as well as intelligent? This is not'to say
that everyone with some money in college deserves to
be attacked as they walk down the street.

However, we should hope that our system has a
more rational and intelligent way of dealing this and
other similar situations than turning to the European-
American Unity and Rights Organization for answers.

--Tallie Jamison, ‘O5

 

“There is no reason
to be afraid.”
—-Mike Young, Dir. of Security

“Yes, they’re sketchy.”
-—Adrienne Fleurke, ‘O5

 

    

PAGE 4

Ol3ll\lfONS

This Nashville based group offers funk-flavored groove jazz
Patrick Dolan — alto sax, flute
Jon Grant - bass, synths & loops
Graham Spice - guitars, keyboard, trumpet, vocals, » -
Chris West - any & all saxes, alto flute, funkyaphone, guitar, keyboard

  Java @ the GHQ

Monday March 4
E 8:30-m_idnight
As ever, our individually made hot chocolate and specialty coffee
drinks will be available.

cocoonso00oooooooooooooooooooooqooonoocoonno0onnonoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
0coconocoooncoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocoooooooooooocooon0cocooooooooooooooooooooooooo

- _l\.i19r\:19tra\.ltRgi.:i.&2

Daschle obstructs, risks lives

Sen. Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota and Senate
Majority Leader, has fulﬁlled citizens’ fears that government is
inefﬁcient, wasteful and‘ fails to act in lines with its citizens’
desires.

He operates on an obstructionist policy that is party—cen-
tered. He supports useless programs— or at the very least,

programs that could be better structured—— at the expense of the I

taxpayers. Worst of all, he is out of touch with the realities of
daily life as a non—Wasl1ington élite. He is, in essence, the epitome
of an aging politician who in his selﬁsh desire to advance his
career is playing the partisan.

Not that Sen. Daschle has any real need to be a parti-
san, mind you. President Bush is widely acknowledged as
a much more non-partisan leader than Bill Clinton ever
was. The issues that have dominated Congress in the
past few months—— terrorism and its ilk —are issues that

' concern every single citizen of this country, regardless of

his political orientation.

However, Sen. Daschle and his Democratic colleagues
in the Senate, especially Sen. Pat Leahy of Vermont and
Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts, have made it their
mission to obstruct any legislation proposed by Presi-
dent Bush and his fellow Republicans. Of course, this is
not an entirely unnatural thing to do; thereexist political
parties for a reason. However, what Daschle Democrats
fail to realize is that when the lives of Americans are at
stake, the government must do something constructive in
order to protect them.

What has Sen. Daschle done, you ask? Consider the whole
terrorism issue. Admittedly, up until recently, the government has
been remarkably uniﬁed in ﬁghting the war on terrorism However,
the Democrats’ strategy appears to be agreeing with the president
on foreign policy and blocking his every move on domestic affairs
in an attempt to win voter support in the upcoming elections this

-year. Witness the recent debacle over how to handle the Enron

alfarr.

Yet now, even the war on terrorism is under attack by Daschle
and company. They have begun to reveal their true colors, those
of people whose lives are unaffected by and unconcerned with

I the lives of theAmeri- ____?__%_
canpublic. RlGHT—WlNG RESPONSE
Sen. Daschle re— ,
cently commented  
upon our expansion of

the war into the Philippines by saying that unless bin Laden is
captured,thewarwillbeafailure. Oh, really? So then destroying
the oppressive Taliban regime and liberating the Afghan people
was nothing signiﬁcant? Sending a message to the entire world
that America means business means nothing?

Come on, let’s be real here and face the reality: in the
absence of anything really substantial to offer, the Demo-
crats have resorted to harming the American public under
the guise of offering constructive criticism to Republicans,
proving that they really are unconcerned with the daily lives
of most Americans.

Now take a look at the Enron scandal. Here you have the
tale of a seemingly healthy company with thousands of em-

  

rouzriasi mruwg/. , 1/
LEFTY: Sert Daschle is the most pardsan man in \X/ashingtorr

ployees going bust overnight, and in the process, raising irn—
portant questions over business ethics and shady accounting
practices. The real tragedy here is the people whose retirement
accounts suddenly vanished, leaving them without funds for
their futures.

However, this has less to do with corporate rnisdoing
than one would think. After all, if one has a substantial sum of
money invested somewhere, whether it’s a corporate 401(k)
plan, stocks, mutual funds, or what have you, one should
know exactly what’s happening with it. Companies are required
to tell their employees how their 401 (k) money is invested; the
employees, regardless of what Enron told them, should not
have put all their eggs in one basket.

Where was government then, making sure that citizens
knew their rights? Since then, though, Republicans have not
taken advantage of these people’s misery and misfortune to
serve their own selﬁsh political ends. If Sen. Daschle and his
cohorts really cared about me American people, they would
be questioning more than just the Enron scandal. What about
partnerships that suddenly go bust when one partner makes
off with the money? What about small businesses that go
broke and leave employees jobless and penniless?

There are so many issues out there deserving of the
govemment’s attention in one way or another, yet instead of
focusing on the big picture, Daschle Democrats are playing
the obstructionist and concentrating on Enron.

It appears that despite what Sen. Daschle and his colleagues
want Americans to believe, the big picture they envision is
disparaging the Republican Party to serve their own needs. This
is the kind of government that people rightfully dislike and mis-
trust. Sen. Daschle and company would do well to learn the
lesson of Richard Nixon, a Republican who was an outstanding
statesman otherwise but who put his party before country, and
in the process, destroyed his own political career. Wake up,
Tommy boy.

 

4 V, vﬁri

 

PAGE 5

MATIllEVi’COURSl3\l&CATllEIRll\IE Gur
W&IiEEEDnoRs
EMAIL (DURSEl\lV1@Vllll~])U&GllYC@WU).El)lI

Tl-i'i:E. fRliNt}-’l"lFit.~i Pm
     W &LiEE 

‘John Q’ entertains but fails to impress

BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

Nick Cassavetes’ John Q kept my in-
terest for the two hours I spent in the
theatre, but it is not the best picture I
have seen this year. John Q, starring
Denzel Washington, is the story of a
hard working family man forced to re-
sort to desperate measures in order to
save his own son’s life.

With a stellar cast and unique
premise, I expected this film to be both
emotionally gripping and entertaining.
Unfortunately, many of the actors were
misused, and much of the film seemed
unrealistic.

Washington plays John Q. Archibald,
a down—on—his luck steel worker trying
to deal with the problems of a slumping
economy. After collapsing at a baseball
game, Archibald’s son Mike is rushed
to a nearby hospital. Archibald learns
that Mike desperately needs a new heart
to survive, but that his medical insur-
ance does not cover such a costly sur-
gery.

Archibald tries frantically to raise the
money for the surgery, but both the gov-
ernment and the company for which he
works are unwilling to help.

When Archibald learns that his son
is going to be released from the hospi-
tal.without the necessary treatment, he
takes the law into his own hands and
holds the entire emergency room hos-
tage.

I have to admit that this film was en-
tertaining. Denzel Washington,'as al-
ways, delivered a strong performance
as John Q., passionately portraying a

* loving and devoted father. I felt a real

sense of empathy with his character and
enjoyed his performance.

However, many of the other actors
were either misused or not used
enough.

Ray Liotta, James Woods, Eddie Grif-
fin and Robert Duvall all had small roles
in the film, but their acting prowess was
seldom seen. Cassavetes seemed to ab-
breviate their performances, thus
squashing my anticipation of a more-
well rounded cast.

Kimberly Elise, who played John’s
wife, didia poor job of convincing me
of anything. She either cried or yelled
in all of her scenes, often both over-
acting and overreacting simulta-
neously.

Although this film kept me awake, it
was simply not realistic. People em-
braced John Q’s cause far too easily, and
by the end of the movie everyone de-
clared him the hero. W

The picture became a divisive story of
“us vs. them.” With an interesting idea,
Cassavetes attacks governmental bureau-
cracy, the health care system and the in-
surance industry, but does not provide
equal treatment for every issue he
broaches.

Cassavetes uses John Q. Archibald
to identify with the common man, but
his presentation is not deep or pro-
found enough to give real solutions to
the major problems facing this country
today.

iezirt ion
‘a‘t‘.¥’§;‘

.?{i

PHO'l'(B CO‘./'R’l$Y OF \X’\W'.Ii\l[)B.COM

Above: Denzel \X/ashington’s
characterjohn  Archiblad rushes to
his son’s aid at his little league game.

Left: A contemplative john Q.
during his seizure of the hospital
that refuses to treat his terminally ill
son for insurance reasons.

In ‘John Q’, Denzel Washington
delivers a passionate performance as a
desperate father at odds with both
his conscience and the insurance
company that refuses to pay for his
son’s necessary heart transplant.

Though W/ashington peforms quite V
well, the other actors were underused
and the story line was often unrealistic.

 

Write for Life

email: phi @wlu.edu,
c0ursenm@wlu, or
guyc@wlu. edu

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2002

  

Stop the stares

BY SAr»iIAGRoNE/STAH: Q 

The guy next door:

Once upon a not-so—1ong-ago time, I had a vision of a
new era of understanding between Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute people.

My idea goes like this:

Once a better dialogue was opened between the two .

schools, Generals and Keydets alike would read the
newspaper, rub their eyes (like they’ve just woken up from
a long, nightmarish sleep) and ﬁnally understand each
other.

They would drop whatever they were doing —
laundry, studying, playing beer pong, shining shoes,
training to kill — and run with open arms to their neighbors
and embrace them. They
would apologize for all the OCCASIONALLY A W&L

years of hurt and PERSON WOULD WALK
misunderstanding. AND DO A DOUBLE

Then both student
bodies would join hands TAKEGREEHNGME

in a circle and sing “We WITHAFACE CUSTOM
Are the World,” to an TAILORED FORTHE

amazing laser light show PHRASE ‘WHAT ARE YOU

and surprise guest DOINGHERE?»
appearances by John

“Uncle Jesse” Stamos and Peter “Do You Feel How I
Feel” Frampton from above in a bright, yellow
helicopter.

I still think we have a way to go.

So here’s the situation: I needed to get some books from
Leyburn to work on a research paper for class. (My professor
was one of the ﬁrst people to nail Stephen Ambrose for citation
errors, so I wanted to be careful about my sources — to, like,
a power of 17).

One of the answers was a quick trip next door to Leybum
for additional materials.

So I threw on my VMI equivalent of business causal
(which is like wearing a suit made out of that that itchy
blanket at your grandma’s house no one likes to take a
nap with) and strolled on over.

When I walked in the door I caught icy stares —
stares that would make an active volcano think for a
very long time whether the whole eruption thing was
worth it. ‘

There was an air of distaste in the building. It was
like I was a giant cockroach that had undergone enough
genetic experimentation to ﬁgure out the push-pull signs
on the front door, not to mention how to ask for a library
card.

Each step to the reference section was more
uncomfortable. I think I might have turned around and left,
had I not seen a W&L friend, who was lcind enough to show
me around the library.

But soon, class called my friend away. And I was
again on my own.

The card catalog told me I needed to travel to the
fourth ﬂoor, which was the basement (someone has to tell
me how that works).

I stepped in the elevator, heading down. The older
gentleman (you know who you are) who was in the car with
me was obviously nervous.

He eased over to the other side of the car, keeping at
least one eye on me the entire time. He breathed a sigh of
relief when I got off the elevator.

When I started to browse the stacks, occasionally a
W&L person would walk and do a double take, greeting
me with a face custom tailored for the phrase “What are
you doing here?” I

All of this put me on the edge. I was defensive.

By the time I reached the counter to check out the
books, I was peering over my shoulder. If someone
screened the security cameras later, I would’ve looked
like I was playing a bit-role in an episode of Mission:
Impossible, keeping an eye out for East Germans with
guns.

I grabbed my books and beat feet back to my side of
24450. Once I stepped in between the fading stucco
buildings, I felt safe, and that bothered me.

It wasn’t like I was Nixon in China or anything. These
were kids my age — some younger— in the same zip code and
mostly in pursuit of the same thing as me: a degree.

I’ll try to give it another shot when I drop my books off,
see if I can bridge the gap enough to give Frampton’s booking
agent a call and to talk to the helicopter people.

Reach Sam LaGrone at lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu.

#1 Spring Break
Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica,
Bahamas & Florida.
Best Parties, Best
Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts,
Group organizers travel
free!

Space is limited! Hurry
up & Book Now!
1-800-234-7007

TREK Y3
Mountain Bike
Like New!!!
$600

463-2327
. ask for Peggy

merm: sew

uaea_ueaiui«"'a§i.ih'ihanvv":

36.125

  

 

THE Rl'NG~Tlfhl PI-It

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2002

PORTS

jE1EvlYFRAl\1KIlN
SPORTS EDITOR
EIirAiI;I«RANi<IIr\I@wIIirDU

W&L opens with NCAA hopes

Generals look to continue
success in region, take
next step at national level

BY DIYA VOHRA
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team boasts several top-qual-
ity players, both returning upperclass-
men as well as freshmen.

The Generals placed sixth in last
year’s NCAA Division IH Tournament
after sweeping clean the Old Dornin-
ion Athletic Conference and the
regionals while dropping just one
singles match and no doubles
matches.

W&L is also hosting the Fab Five
Tournament from March 28-April 1,
which will bring together six of the top
seven Division III teamsin Lexington:

Williams, Trinity, Emory, Pimona Pitzer .

and Gustavus Adolphus, along with
the No. 6 Generals.

The season begins with a match
against ODAC opponent Hollins on‘
Wednesday, and players started their
challenge matches last week. Seeding
is in the works for six singles slots
and three doubles teams.

The team practices every weekday,
making full use of the Duchossois
Tennis Center, which they share with
the men’s team.

In her 14th year as head coach,
Cinda Rankin is very optimistic about
the team’s potential this year.

“We have lots of experience from
last year, everyone is playing ex-
tremely well in the challenge
matches and we’re going to do ‘bet-
ter at the nationals this year,” Rankin
said.

Along with Rankin, the team also
has the support of assistant coach
Justin Clark, in his second season
with the team, and student coach, jun-
ior Chase Bice.

Captain Sallie Gray Strang, a se-
nior, expects the team to be very
strong this year. She believes that if

the team makes it to the nationals, they
have a great chance to ﬁnish well.

“In my opinion, our team is just as
strong or stronger than in 2000, when
we ﬁnished third,” Strang said.

Everyone is full of compliments
about the freshmen. Three of them
-— Lindsay Hagerman, Elizabeth
McCracken and Marie Trimble —
saw significant playing time in the
fall season.

“In general, the freshmen have
brought a lot to the team,” Strang said.
“They all work very hard and push the
rest of the team to do our best.”

Coach Rankin is also appreciative
of the strong freshman players the
team has recruited this year, espe-
cially with juniors Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth and Alyson Brice
abroad for the spring season. One of
the ﬁrst-year players was the No. 1
seed in W&L’s three fall dual
matches, all 9-0 wins.

“Freshman Lindsay Hagerman is a
very strong player,” said Rankin, who
also praises junior Erika Proko, who

ﬁnished seventh at the Rolex Cham-
pionships in October.

“Erika played extremely well at
the nationals last year,” the coach
said. “She made it to the top eight
in the nation, and I think she is go-
ing to show the same results this
year.”

Co—captain and senior Melissa
Hatley also returns to the team, where
she joins Proko on a doubles team
that ﬁnished third at the Rolex tour-
nament.

“Hatley is mentally tough, has lots
of experience and is a very solid
player,” Rankin said. “She played No.
1 singles last spring and has twice
been anAll-American.”

» Student coach Bice is looking for
a strong showing this year.

‘‘All the freshmen are quality ten-
nis players,” he said. “They work hard
everyday, and this can only help im-
prove the team.

“Melissa and Sallie provide strong
work ethics and senior leadership to
the team,” he added.

Generals tee off 2002 spring season

W&L golf team looks to unseat Guilford as ODAC champion, enter the NCAA Division III race

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Lost somewhere in the mix of talk
about the lacrosse and tennis teams
this spring is another Washington and
Lee sports squad that wants to make
noise on the national level.

That would be the Generals’ golf
team, which has quickly worked its
way back into the NCAA picture. Af-
ter a successful fall season, in which
W&L ﬁnished with a 301.7 stroke av-
erage in a four—man scoring system,
the Generals received Top 25 rankings
in several Division III polls.

“We want the recognition,” said
head coach Gavin Colliton, in his third
season with the team. “I.don’t think it
adds any pressure to us. It should
make them feel good, and show them
that they’re on the way.

“If you can get into the Top 25,
that means you’ve got to keep chang-
ing your goals, and our goal is to be
at No. 1,” he added. “That goal really
hasn’t changed.”

Junior Chip Campbell was a large
part of the Generals’ fall success,

 

shooting an average of 73.5 in W&L’s
three fall tournaments. Senior co-cap-
tain Kyle Ulep was close behind, av-
eraging a 74 round.

Freshman Ged Johnson averaged
a 77—stroke round in the fall, and jun-
ior Chuck Green
was a shade above
that.
those four were the
top Generals in the
fall, Colliton be-
lieves that W&L
can also draw
upon its depth.

“We have nine
guys that can all
score well,” he said. “The level

CAMPBELL

S amongst themselves of talent is pretty

close, but we still have a clear-cut No.
1 guy. Kyle and Chip have proven
they can go low and stay low. We have
a pretty balanced team.”

W&L got off to a rough start for
the spring at the Pine Needles Invita-
tional in Southern Pines, N.C., on
Monday and Tuesday. The Generals
shot a 309-319 to finish 20th of 24
teams, 47 strokes behind Old Domin-

Although.

ion Athletic Conference favorite
Guilford (which ﬁnished second) and
12 behind Roanoke, another ODAC
opponent.

Although the play of freshman
Carlos Spaht, who led W&L with a
74-78, showed promise, Colliton real-
izes that the Generals have to get bet-
ter, and do that quickly.

“If you’re scoring in the 80s or high
705 on a good day, on a good course,
you’re not playing the level you
should play,” he said. “We should be
better than that,
and we’re going to
have to get better.
We can’t shoot
too many more
rounds like that.
We have to ﬁnish
the year .(shoot-
ing) under 300 to
have a chance to
do some other things.”

The Generals begin ODAC com-
petition today at Hampden-Sydney,
and they’ll play in three more confer-
ence events —— including the W&L
Invitational at the Lexington Golf and

CoLLIToN

 

Country Club on March 21 — before
the ODAC Championships in
Fincastle, Va., on April 22-23.

Colliton says W&L is also looking
forward to the Ferrum Invitational in
Smith Mountain Lake, Va., next Mon-
day and Tuesday and the Emory In-
vitational in Stone Mountain, Ga., on
April 13-14.

Guilford remains the team to beat
in the ODAC, but the Generals proved
that they can compete with the Quak-
ers in the fall. Led by Ulep’s 70-71 and
Carnpbell’s 71-73, W&L ﬁnished a
stroke ahead of Guilford at the Greens-
boro Aubrey Apple Invitational on
Oct. 6-7.

The coach believes his team is ca-
pable of returning to that form, and
he won’t shy away from keeping am-
bitions high for his Generals.

“For us to reach our goals of what
we want to do — win the ODAC
Championship, get to the NCAA Tour-
nament, win the NCAAs —~ that’s
what we talk about,” Colliton said.
“We want to be the next men’s na-
tional championship team from
W& .” 1

PAGE 6

more

I1vuv£EDLAT1a CONTRIBUTOR: Freshman Lindsay Hagerman served as the Generals’
No. 1 seed during their 3-0 dual match run in the fall.

Track earns head
for the great ou doors

Generals ﬁnish 5th at ODAC Indoor Championships

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT sI>oRTs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s track teams ﬁnished
the indoor season by competing in
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Indoor Championships on Feb.
23 at Lynchburg College.

The men’s team took finished
fifth out of ﬁve teams with 42 points,
while the women’s team also took
ﬁfth with 17 points.

Junior Chris Sullivan led the men’s
team with second—place ﬁnishes in
the 55-meter dash (6.64 seconds) and
the long jump
(6.72 meters).
Sullivan ﬁnished
fourth in the
long jump at last
season’s indoor
championships.

“I felt really

WASHINGTON AND ‘LEE ATHLETICS SCHEDULES MARCH 5-18

Wednesday, March 6

Saturday, March 9

Tuesday, March 12

Saturday, March 16

Men’s Lacrosse

Mews Tennis svagfzfﬂlampden-Sydney (DH) hanijlallifiishington at W&L 3 p in Men’s Tennis W&L  Frfnglm 8;-, hﬁjarﬁhggl
W&L at Hampdewsydney’ 3 pm 12 pm Bridgewaterat W&L, 10 a.m. (3 °Y°3 9 9 ). - Pm-
womenis Tennis Women’s Lacrosse Wednesday, March13 Sa"5b“’V state 3‘ W&L: 2 P~"‘- Sunday March 17
W&L at Hollins 330 m Guilford at W&L, 12 p.m. Women’s Lacrosse Women’s Lacrosse womenjs Tennis
' ' p‘ ' Men’s Lacrosse Nazareth at W&L, 4 p.m. M w&|_ at Franklin 3. Marshau, ,

Gettysburg at W&L, 1:30 p.m. 11 am G”'”°'d ‘ft  10 am‘
Thursday’ March 7 Friday, March 15 Baseball W&L at Virginia Tech, 1 p.m.
Baseball March 11-12 women’s Tennis 3359133"

Golf Bridgewater at W&L, 3:30 p.m. Ra”d°'Ph'Ma°°” 3‘ W&L (DH): West Virginia Tech at W&L (DH).
Villa Julie at W&L, 3 p.m. W&L at Ferrum Invitational Emory & Henry at W&L, 6 p.m. 12 pm. 12 p.m.

good about my
performances,”
Sullivan said. “I had been having
trouble with my long jump all sea-
son and ﬁnally got over 22 feet to
take second.

“I knew that I should also be able
to take second in the 55, and I ended
up running a personal best.”

Junior Mat Ropoza added a first-
place ﬁnish in the shot put, tossing
13.51 meters. Freshman Wes Bell
made an impressive mark, placing
first in the 1,600 meters (4:27.80).

’ Coach Norris Aldridge also noted
that Bell could have placed in the
3,200-meter event, but was held out.

The ﬁfth-place ﬁnish seems dis-
appointing, but the 32-year coach
felt the team performed well, consid-
ering injuries to senior captain Mike
Hegg and freshmen Reid Childers
and Brian Krupczak.

“I think realistically we could’ve
ﬁnished third,” Aldridge said. “We
had some injuries to key personnel.
Mike would’ve ﬁnished no worse
than second in the hurdles. We per-
formed to the best of our abilities.”

SULLIVAN

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team improved to 2-
1 against Division I competition
this season with a 4-1 win over
Radford University at home on
Thursday.

The Generals (3-1) won three
of the four singles matches that

were completed, along with two ~

of three doubles matches
against the Radford Highland-
ers.

Freshman Paul-McClure de-
feated Radford’s Robel
Menginsteab 7-5, 6-0 at No. 1
singles. Joakim Arhammar pulled
out a 7-6, 6-3 win over Washington
and Lee University sophomore
Austin Kim at No. 3.

 

On the women’s side, junior
Burke Duncan led the squad with a
third-place ﬁnish in the 1,600-meter
run, ﬁnishing in 5 :44.10.

“Burke ran her season-best at
the tournament, but was still not
satisfied with her run,” coach John
Tucker said. “She qualiﬁed for na-
tionals in cross country and missed
a chance to qualify in track by a
tenth of a second last season. She
understands what it takes to reach
that level.”

Freshman Liz Crawford and
sophomore Angel Daniels also tied
for fifth in the high jump (1.37
meters). ‘

Tucker admitted that the team
was not happy with a fifth-place
ﬁnish, but also commended the ef-
forts of his runners and their con-
tinued improvement throughout
the winter.

“I feel we reached our goals, de-
spite the ﬁnish,” he said. “We had a
lot of runners who ran personal best
at the conference championships.
You can’t ask for more from an ath-
lete than their best effort, and that’s
what they’ve given.”

Tucker promises that the team
will become much stronger in the
outdoor season, when seniors Sa-
rah Schmidt and Megan Babst re-
turn from the basketball court.

Schmidt is the three-time con-

ference champion in the javelin,

while Babst won the conference
title injthe high jump last year.
Tucker also expects her to run
some sprints this year.

The additional athletes may not
help to overcome conference foes
with deep rosters‘, but the 14-year
coach believes the Generals can
achieve some simple goals.

“We have some challenges ahead
of us, but our kids will keep working
hard and improving,” Tucker said.

The track program returns to ac-
tion on March 16, when they begin
the outdoor season by hosting the
Washington and Lee Invitational.

Men’s tennis tops
Division I Radford

No. 4 Graham Nix, also a
sophomore, defeated the High-
landers’ Khalid Lhamidi by a 7-
5, 6-3 score. Senior Rob
Moynihan won his match with
Rachid Lamrissi 6-0, 6-1 at No. 5
singles.

Senior Rhys James and
sophomore K.C. Schaefer did
not complete their singles
matches at No. 2 and No. 6, re-
spectively.

In doubles

defeated James and Moynihan, 8-

0. But Kim and Nix teamed to top 

Lhamidi and Lamrissi at the No. 2
slot, and Schaefer and McClure
beat Menginsteab and Dominic
Souer at No. 3 to claim the point for
W&L.

 

competition, _
Arhammar and Bartlo Oosthuizen ;

5

$-

V

V’

V

C-

    

MONDAY, MARCH 4,2002



Shoremen survive late W&L storm

SCANNING THE POSSIBILITIES: Senior Andrew Barnett works
the ball around while pursued by Washington’s Austin

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
. SPORTS EDITOR

Despite holding Washington Col-
lege to one goal in the second half and
outshooting the Shoremen 43-23 for
the game, the Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team couldn’t over-
come a 5-1 first quarter deﬁcit, falling

9-8 on Saturday at the W&L Turf Field.

The game was moved from Wilson
Field due to bad weather conditions,
and the teams played under pouring
rains for most of the contest.

Tenth—ranked Washington (2-O)
avenged a 4-2 defeat from a season
ago in part due to winning 14 of 19

BY DAVE CROWELL
.\SSlSTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse opened season play with an
impressive 23-5 win over Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference foe Sweet
Briar, but had the tables turned in a 9-5
defeat at St. Mary’s, Md., on Saturday.

The Generals opened up a quick 5-
0 lead within the first four minutes of
the contest on Wednesday before
Sweet Briar responded with a goal
with 25:57 to play. After this point,
W&L responded with eight unan-
swered goals and a 10-1 run to seize a
15-2 halftime lead.

The Vixens proved unable to crack
past W&L’s solid midfield unit,
strengthened by the play of sopho-
mores Lee Wheeler (four goals, three
assists) and Kelly Taffe (five goals,
two assists) and senior captain
Courtenay Fisher.

“I thought Lee played very well
and Kelly gave an extremely strong
performance,” coach Jan Hathorn
said after the game. “But really our
entire offensive unit was terriﬁc.”

The large first half lead allowed the
Generals to give experience to some
underclassmen, as freshman attacker
Natalya Hoobchaak and freshman
midﬁelder Erin Rathbone added two
goals apiece.

Hathom was very pleased with her
team’s performance, noting a high in-
tensity level despite blustering winds
and cold weather.

faceoffs and the efforts of freshman
goalie Alex Pirani, who made 15 saves.

“Keys to games at this level are
faceoffs and goaltending, and we had
some trouble early in the game with
those areas,” W&L coach Mike
Cerino said. “I don’t know if we ever
really got up to speed with where we
needed to be in there.”

The Shoremen built up a four-goal
lead in the first 15 minutes, as Craig
Rentch and Stephen Berger had two
goals apiece and Eric Kuehn had one.

The Generals cut the lead to 5-3 at
the 9:31 mark of the second period
on goals by sophomores Matt Fink
and Mark McLewee, and the teams

DIRECTING THE OFFENSE: Senior co—captain Courtenay Fisher
looks for an open teammate during Washington and Lee’s

“I was very glad that we came out
focused as a group. The work they’ve
put in during the offseason deﬁnitely
showed on the ﬁeld,” she said.

Saturday afternoon saw a complete
reversal of fortune, as the Seahawks
of St. Mary’s built a 5-1 early lead be-
hind three goals from Carol Schmoeller.

“We had opportunities to score
early, but we didn’t take advantage of
them,” Hathom said. “They capital-
ized like a good team will.”

traded scores for the rest of the quar-
ter, with Washington assuming an 8-
5 halftime lead.

After a scoreless third period,
sophomore Mike McNamara pulled
W&L to within 8-6, but Kuehn’s tally
at 7:55 pushed the lead back to three
and proved to be the game-winner.

McNamara scored again at 3:22,
and sophomore Dustin Martin made
it 9-8 at 1:05. Junior Tom Melanson
won the ensuing faceoff, but Pirani
stopped Martin’s shot in the ﬁnal sec-
onds to preserve the victory.

Despite the loss, Cerino was pleased
with several factors of his team’s per-
formance, particularly the defensive

,Women win home opener, fall on road

The Generals cut the deficit to 5-3
with goals from Wheeler and senior
attacker Emily Owens. St. Mary’s,
however, scored two goals to seize a
7-3 lead with under 16 minutes to play,
then ﬁnished the Generals’ hopes with
two goals in a three-minute span late
in the second half.

Sophomore goalkeeper Joanna
Perini recorded 13 saves in the defeat.

“We were under a lot of pressure
against a high-caliber team and we

. ' - VI" ' ~ >CM”?l§€‘.ﬁl$-if) * I?A(;'§F§.§ '* .l‘«i!.?I*iE‘i?-it"? * E.”i¥€iJl,§«S.r5r..l\*’ES
. ‘.9 WW? Wﬁﬁfili’-%{§‘lT)%*l STREET * LmiIPi’>(:’r’l’ﬂ?"§ * 

Mm GLY/Yhc Ring-rum P'
Sanders in the Shoremen’s 9-8 win over Washington and Lee
at the \X/&L Turf Field. Barnett recorded one assist.

23-5 win over Sweet Briar at the Liberty Hall Fields on
Wednesday’. Fisher scored a goal in the rout.

No. 10 Washington College holds off No. 5 Generals’ 4th quarter charge for a 9-8 win Saturday at icy W&L Turf Field

effort in the ﬁnal two quarters.

“Eric Kontargyris, Greg Hendler,
Kenny Rasamny — those three
defensemen did a great job of leading
a mixed group of defense, as far as
the middies were coming back, and
keeping us in this,” Cerino said. “We

’ picked up and gained control of the

game, and slowly but surely battled
our way into taking the last shot.”

W&L entered Saturday’s contest
fresh off a pair of home wins: Wednes-
day against Division II Pfeiffer and
Saturday against Bates.

Fink led the way for the Generals
against Pfeiffer, netting three goals
and an assist in the first period of an
1 1-5 win. Senior John Moore added a
pair of goals for W&L, which outshot
the Falcons 50-19.

The Generals had even less of a
problem the previous Saturday
against Bates, winning a by a 10-2
margin. Senior Andrew Barnett led
W&L with three goals, while Moore
and Martin had two apiece.

Cerino praises the ‘offensive efforts
of the sophomores, who he didn’t ex-
pect to be making such major contri-
butions at this point of the year.

“For sophomores, they’re stepping
up pretty early in the season,” he said.
“I really look for more growth out of
these guys as the year goes on.”

The Generals must rebound
quickly from the Washington loss, as
No. 2 Gettysburg visits at 1:30 p.m.
on Saturday.

“We won’t be sitting around read-
ing our press clippings,” Cerino said.
“We’ll be excited about an opportunity
to compete against Gettysburg. It’s a
team that we have a great rivalry with,
and we’re looking forward to a battle.”

MARY GUY/T7ICRlI1g-[Um Phi"

struggled,” Hathom said. “By the sec-
ond half we started to play our game,
but their lead was too big to overcome.”

The Generals return to action when
they host conference opponent
Guilford at 12 p.m. on Saturday, attempt-
ing to learn from Saturday’s loss.

“It’s only a defeat if you don’t learn
something from it,” Hathom said. “We
learned where we are as a team. We’ll
take something from it and then put it
behind us.”

  

  

Pt\GE.7

W&» 85D    

 THE PITCH: Sophomore Peter Dean fires to home plate in W&L’s 6-5 win
over Emory & Henry in Game 1 of Sunday’s doubleheader.

Baseball opens ODAC with Emory & Henry double dip

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Through just eight games, the
Washington and Lee baseball team
has endured a season’s worth of
ups and downs. '

The Generals are 4-4 after split-
ting an Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference doubleheader with Emory &
Henry at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on
Sunday. They’ve already had games
with dominant pitching, including a
no—hitter by sophomore Dan Kagey
against Muhlenberg on Feb. 23, but
also contests where they’ve
struggled to manufacture runs.

The Sunday doubleheader in-
cluded bothelements, as the Gener-
als came from behind for a 6-5 win in
the first game but dropped a 4-3 de-
cision in Game 2.

“We played OK,” W&L coach Jeff
Stickley said. “We played with fire
both games —— won the first one and
got burned in the second one. We’ve
just got to score some more runs.”

The Wasps (2-3, 1-1 ODAC) put
two runs on the board in each of the
first two innings of Game 1, as
sophomore Mike Wert gave up four
earned runs on seven hits in 1 2/3
innings. That raised Wert’s ERA to
11.77 on the season.

“Michael’s just off to a slow start,
and he’s going to be OK,” Stickley
said. “He’s a tough kid, and he’ll get
better.”

Sophomore Peter Dean pitched
the ﬁnal 5 1/3 innings, giving up one
run and striking out six.

W&L trailed 5-3 heading into the
bottom of the ﬁfth, when sophomore
right ﬁelder Bryan Mulhem led off
the inning with a home run. That score
would hold until the bottom of the
seventh, the last chance for the Gen-
erals to erase the Wasps’ 5-4 lead.

Senior third baseman Matt
Kozora led off with a homer. Emory
& Henry junior Broz Wilmoth came
on in relief, but walked junior ﬁrst
baseman Brian Gladysz and gave up

the game—winning RBI triple to se-
nior catcher Todd Gosselink.

“That was a great job of hanging V

there and scoring at the end,”

Stickley said. “The ﬁrst game we kept ’

scoring with them, so that was the
difference. But you can’t just manu-
facture a run or two in the last in-
ning of the game all the time.”

Kagey started the second game
for W&L, throwing six innings while
giving up four runs — two of which
were earned — walking three and
striking out eight. Wilmoth returned
to the mound for the Wasps, giving
up three runs and striking out ﬁve
in seven innings of work.

“We know Peter and Dan are
good, solid pitchers, so it really

doesn’t surprise you when they I
throw well,” Stickley said. “Both of ;

them did good enough jobs to give
us a chance to win.”

Mulhem doubled and eventually .

scored as part of a three-run ﬁrst in-
ning that gave the Generals a 3-2 lead.

The score remained there until
the top half of the sixth, when Emory

& Henry third baseman Rob Spen- g

cer took a Kagey pitch over the wall
in left ﬁeld for a two-run home run.
That proved to be the difference in
the game. ‘

The twin bill with the Wasps pro-

vided the ﬁrst action for W&L in a
week, as a Wednesday game at
Shenandoah was postponed due to
inclement weather.

W&L steps out of the ODAC
this week with home games Mon-
day against Merchant Marine Acad-
emy and Thursday against Villa Julie.
The Generals return to conference
play with a Saturday doubleheader
at Hampden—Sydney.

“We’re not going to do anything
any different much,” Stickley said
of the non-conference games. “You
try to get your other pitchers work
who didn’t throw in the conference
games, and maybe try out a posi-
tion change for a guy.”

Both home games start at 3 p.m.

Interested in covering Washington and Lee I
spring sports for The Ring-tum Phi?

Opportunities are available to cover baseball, lacrosse and
tennis. NO experience is required.

Contact Jeremy Franklin at x4060 or trank|inj@w|u.edu.

Serious

   l}‘E.3 -aunts

w.eor..meiitrat:el.com
I-890-2COUNClL

l\lIRY (}I'Y/ 7715- Ring—rum Phi

 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 2002

 PORTS

JEREYYFRANKIIN
SPORTS EDITOR


PAGE 8

&L careers end for 5 women’s hoopsters

Mentz named ODAC’s top player, Babst to 2nd Team

Generals continue climb
upward in 2001-02 season

BY JEREMY FRANKIIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For the Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team, the results
of the 2001-02 season brought mixed
emotions. *

The Generals ﬁnished 12-14, in-
cluding a 9-11 mark that was good
enough for sixth in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. W&L ﬁnished
the year with a 75-58 loss to Emory &
Henry in the ﬁrst round of the ODAC
Tournament on Feb. 21 in Salem.

“We had a lot of chemistry this
year as a team, and we worked very
well together,” said senior forward
Jessica Mentz, whose team was 8-16
a season ago. “Our greatly improved
record reﬂects a lot of hard work and
dedication from everyone on the
team. This past year was a great ex-
perience.”

Second-year head coach Janet
Hollack was pleased with her team’s
improvement, but felt that W&L had
the potential to do a little bit more.

“We really made some headway
this year, but I would have preferred
to end with results above .500,”
Hollack said. “We deﬁnitely had some
highlights that I don’t want to be
swept under the rug by the fact that
we didn’t reach that goal.”

    

FILE

TURN ON A DIME: Freshman Bethany Dannelly set a new \X/ashington and Lee
record by dishing out 152 assists in the 2001-02 season.

Regrouping for next season must
start now for the Generals, as ﬁve se-
niors who accounted for more than 46
of W&L’s 58 points and 27 of 39 re-
bounds per game will graduate in June.

In addition to All-ODAC selec-
tions Mentz (20 points, 11.8 re-
bounds) and Megan Babst (19, 10.1),
guards Sarah Schmidt, Carter Tho-
mas and Alison Kudlacik will depart.
While Mentz and Babst were the go-
to options inside, Schmidt developed
into a reliable three—point threat, hit-
ting 40.6 percent of her shots from
the perimeter.

“With post players like Megan
and Jess, people like to sit back in a

HIEPHOI

 

WASPS GET STUNG: Sophomore Michael Denbow works against Emory & Henry
guard Paul Russo in one of the Generals’ more memorable games of the 2001-02
season. W&L won, 62-60, on Ian McClui:e’s shot in the game’s ﬁnal second.

Generals grapp

BY DAVE CROWELL
.\SSlSTANT SPORTS EDITOR

A wrestling team will usually face
problems when a top competitor misses
a portion of the season on the injury
list, or when the team ﬁghts, each and
every match, to grab a victory despite
losing points due to forfeits.

Many teams would buckle under
these problems, preferring to call it
quits and wait for the next season. The
Washington and Lee wrestling team,
however, refused to collapse. A sixth-
place Centennial Conference ﬁnish out
of six teams hides the true effort this
team channeled into each day of the
season.

“It would be a lie if I said we didn’t
have a disappointed season, but
there were bright spots,” said 125-
pound senior Ben Segal, a four—year
letter winner. “Ivan (Zdanov) and
Ezra (Morse) did very well. They only
lost matches by one point in the con-
ference tournament. It was very
tough to watch, almost heartbreak-
ing."

Zdanov provided a major reason
why the Generals competed in nearly
every match, picking up the leader-
ship role after Morse went down with
an ankle injury during Christmas va-
cation.

The senior also placed highest for
W&L at the Centennial tournament,
held on Feb. 16 at Ursinus College,
taking a second—place ﬁnish. Zdanov,
who primarily competed in the 174-
pound class, ﬁnished his season with
a 20-7 record. - »

Senior 197-pounder Morse and
sophomore 184-pounder Joe Mueller
followed Zdanov with third-place ﬁn-
ishes. Mueller, who won the confer-
ence title at 184 last season, re-

zone, so we need more outside
shooting,” Schmidt said. “I just de-
cided to stop passing up shots that I
knew I could hit.”

W&L does return two starters,
both freshmen: point guard Bethany
Darmelly and forward Emily Barker.
Darmelly broke Thomas’ school record
with 152 assists, while Barker averaged
6.2 points and 3.0 rebounds a contest.

A pair of key reserves also return,
as junior Elizabeth Igo and Heather

‘ Coleman, both guards, played in all

but a handful of W&L’s games this
year. Junior Austin Calhoun, who
joined the team this season, should
see more minutes next year.

“Role players are necessary,”
Hollack said. “I think that’s what
you’ll see in a lot of the teams that
have done well in the ODAC: they
have more role players than the other
teams do.” 1

But the Generals still must replace
the vast majority of their scoring, and
they’ll look to do so with the incom-
ing recruiting class.

“Absolutely, we need post,”
Hollack said. “It’s going to take build-
ing a program with plenty of people
who are willing to not always be in the
limelight. Depth is going to be key in
order to gain some more recognition.

“Getting the inside-outside game is
also something that I’d like to do,” she
added. “We made great strides this year,
and I’m looking forward to next season.”

For now, W&L will say goodbye
to the senior class, who ﬁnished their
careers 46-55 overall, including a 36-
44 mark in the conference and the
Generals’ only win in the ODAC Tour-
nament, a ﬁrst—round victory over Vir-
ginia Wesleyan in 1999.

“All in all, it’s been an amazing year
with great individual achievements,
but we all feel like we could have done
better as a team,” Schmidt said. “But
this team has come together through
a lot of adversity.

“I’ve never been a part of any
group that was so dedicated to each
other and making the most of each
moment we have together. It has been
an amazing journey.”

BY JEREMY FRANKIIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Senior forward Jessica Mentz
capped off a great career this year by
winning the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Player of the Year award,
as voted on by the league’s coaches.

Mentz received the designation
after leading the Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team with
20 points and 11.8 rebounds
per game. She hit 49.7 percent
from the ﬁeld and 73 .9 percent
from the free throw line‘.

“I feel pretty good about
my season personally,” Mentz
said. “I feel as though I have
come a long way since I started
playing basketball here, and
hopefully I am a better player.”

For W &L coach Janet Hollack,
whose Generals were 12-14 this year
— 9-11 in the ODAC — Mentz’s big-
gest contributions to the team won’t
show up in any box score.

“She brought everything everyday,
and that’s what made her so special,”
Hollack said. “You could always count
on her, day in and day out. It’s good to
see people that work hard actually reap
the beneﬁts of that work. She’s a prime
example of what can happen if you do
have that kind of a work ethic.”

Mentz’s teammate and classmate,
Megan Babst, was named to the All-

 

MENTZ

ODAC Second Team. Babst averaged
19.0 points and 10.] boards per game
and blocked 56 shots.

The frontcourt tandem served as
the primary options for the W&L of-
fense, accounting for two-thirds of the
Generals’ scoring.

“You can’t say enough about
both of them. They’ve done out-
standing things in their careers,”
Hollack said. “When we
needed them to step up their
. game, they always answered

' I the call.”

Mentz wants her intan-
gibles to be remembered, not
her 20 school records or
sixth-best career scoring to-
tal in Virginia Division III his-
tory.

“Hopefully, I brought a .

good work ethic and leadership to this
team,” she said. “I do my best to give
100 percent effort at all times, and I
think that kind of attitude is conta-
gious.”

The forward also believes that she
and her classmates have done a lot to
advance W&L women’s hoops.

“The ﬁve seniors on this team have
done a lot to solidify the basketball pro-
gram here,” Mentz said. “Our dedica-
tion says a lot for where this program is
going. Hopefully, we have established
a good base, and the team will continue
to improve in the upcoming years.”

en’s basketball begins to work back up ODAC ladder

Generals achieve goal of getting to conference tournament, look to continue improvement in 2002-03

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

On the surface, the 2001-02 sea-
son wasn’t a great one for the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s basketball team.

Mired by injuries, the Generals ﬁn-
ished the year 7-18, 4-14 in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference. But
ask anyone involved with W&L
hoops about this year, and you won’t
get a negative response.

“(This season) wasn’t a disap-
pointment by any stretch,” said
sophomore point guard and co-cap-
tain Michael Denbow. “We felt we
could have won at leastidouble fig-
ures, but we had a completely new
team, a new feel, and it only served
to make great building blocks for the
future.”

Four freshmen, guards Ian
McClure and Mike Stuart and for-

le injuries, foes .

 

FIIEIHOIO

CENTENNIAL RUNNER—UP: Senior Ivan Zdanov fell to Andy Chencharik of Western
Maryland in the finals of the 174-pound ﬂight of the Centennial Conference
Championships. Chencharik’s team won the competition, held Feb. 16 at Ursinus.

bounded to win two consolation
matches.

The conference tournament
capped a season that saw the Gener-
als ﬁnish with a 3-7 dual record, a
fourth-place ﬁnish (out of 11 teams)
at the Scranton Invitational and a
third-place ﬁnish (out of nine teams)
at the Newport News Apprentice In-
vitational.

Coach Gary Franke agreed that the
team failed to meet the goals set at
the beginning of the season, but felt
other factors affected certain meets.

“The injuries to Ezra and Ben hurt
our dual meet record, as we may have
won a few more with everyone in the
lineup,” said the 29-year coach said,

.who also praised the efforts of his

three seniors.

“They are all four—year letter win-
ners who have improved every year,”
Franke said. “We will miss those
guys, as the team followed their lead-
ership.” ‘

With a focus on individual perfor-
mances, however, most spectators

forget the role a coach plays in mold-
ing a team’s attitude toward competi-
tion. Segal described the importance
of Franke in beneﬁting his college
career.

“Coach Franke is unique. Many
coaches are very intense and can be
jerks. They’re not nice or understand-
ing,” he said. “Coach Franke is genu-
inely a nice guy, but will still ﬁght for
you in the ring. He respects all of his
wrestlers.”

W&L will return next season with
a lot of promise, as Franke hopes jun-
iors Alex Poor and John Polena,
sophomore Corey Little and fresh-
man Brian Avello will ﬁll the leader-
ship void left by the three departing
seniors.

Segal also believes" Avello and
Mueller should step up.

“Mueller has proved himself
and been to the national tourna-
merit,” Segal said. “Avello has
the talent, conditioning, skills
and attitude. Hejust needs expe-
rience.”

wards Mark Franceski and Patrick
Neuman, saw significant minutes
for the Generals. Guards Holton
Freeman and Wes McAdams may
have been in the regular rotation,
but injuries shortened their sea-
sons.

Stuart, who ﬁnished second on the
team with 9.4 points per game, believes
that this group from the Class of 2005
has the chance to push W&L toward
the top of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

“We were recruited as the class
that was going to rebuild the pro-
gram,” Stuart said. “We have a great
relationship, and none of us are ex-
pected to stop playing. We’re all very
competitive.”

Jeff Lafave, who completed his
third year as head coach of the Gen-
erals with a loss in the ODAC Tour-
nament to regular-season champion

Randolph-Macon, believes that play-
ing time for the freshmen will pay divi-
dends for the rest of their careers.

“Hopefully, during the next three
years, you’ll see them grow quicker
than they would if they didn’t play as
much as freshmen,” Lafave said.
“They understand what it’s going to
take, but they’ve gotten valuable ex-
perience.”

The freshmen weren’t the only
Generals to affect the outcome of this
season. Junior forward Scott
Hetterrnann returned to lead W&L in
scoring and rebounding, despite play-
ing on less—than—healthy ankles.

Juniors Touissant Crawford and
John Warren were reliable threats from
the perimeter. Meanwhile, sophomore
forward Hamill Jones, Denbow’s co-
captain, hit 48.6 percent from the ﬂoor.

Seems like something’s missing?
Try seniors, which W&L had none of

this year. That means everyone should
return for the 2002-03 campaign.

“We should, without a doubt, try
to win 12-15 games, and go at least
.500 in the conference,” said Denbow,
whose coach is hesitant about quan-
tifying what would be a successful
season.

“When you’ve got a young group,
you have to set realistic goals,”
Lafave said. “You don’t want to set
any kind of wins-and-losses lirnita—
tions and expectations. Taking the
next step in the (ODAC) Tournament
would be a nice goal for our guys.”

For one of the freshmen, the Gen-
erals are already on the way up the
ladder in one of NCAA Division HI’s
toughest basketball leagues.

“We’ve shown that we can play
with every team,” Stuart said. “We’re

. going to build on this. You’ve got to

keep moving up in the ODAC.”

W&L women win ODAC swimming title

Men conclude season at Grove City, will send Hitter to NCAA Division III meet

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee swimming teams ﬁnished
the 2001-02 season over Washington Holiday with a pair
of meets. The women won the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championships in Radford, while the men
placed fourth in the Grove City Invitational in Pennsyl-
Vania.

The women swam to a decisive victory at the ODAC
meet, winning every relay at the meet in addition to some
stellar individual performances. ‘

Leading the team was junior Blair Huffman, who was
named the Atlantic States Swimmer of the Meet, with
wins in the 200 and 400 individual medley, and the 200
butterﬂy. She set conference, meet and school records
in the 400 IM with a time of 4:43.62, which qualiﬁed as an
NCAA “B” cut time.

Great swims were bad all around at the meet. Sopho-
more Mandi Kimble took third in the 200 freestyle and 100
backstroke and second in the 200 backstroke. Freshman
Laura Westennan placed fourth in the 200 HVI and ﬁfth in
the 200 freestyle, and classmate Eleanor Wrlliarns took
third in the 200 backstroke and second in the 100 back-
stroke.

Senior Maggie Fagan made three lifetime bests in her
last meet as a General, and senior Laura Ingoldsby made
a lifetime best in the 500 freestyle, also taking second in
the grueling 1,650 freestyle. SeniorAnne Lachiewicz also
ﬁnished out her W&L career with best times in the 500
and 200 freestyle.

Coach Kiki Moore was very pleased with the season
as a whole, as her team ﬁnished with an 8-5 record.

“We had a great season,” Moore said. “It was a
team that really stuck together and helped each other

    

out when they needed it. They got along well and
worked very hard in practice —- they were easily moti-
vated.” 1

The men, meanwhile, were busy at Grove City. Sopho-
more Eric Ritter continued to dominate the backstroke
for W&L, shattering personal and school records in the
200 version of the event by nearly two
seconds. .

Ritter’s time of 1:51.91 was good

enough for an NCAA “A” cut,
guaranteeing him a trip to Miami
of Ohio on March 21-23 for the Di-
vision III Nationals. His time in the
100 backstroke was also good
enough for a win at Grove City.
, Junior Patrick Frankfort won the
1,000 and 500 freestyle, with NCAA “B” cut times, but
coach Andrew Pulsifer was pessimistic about his
chances to go to nationals.

“Patrick has made ‘B’ cuts in two of his three years
here that don’t quite make it to nationals, but he keeps
making lifetime bests,” Pulsifer said. .

Freshman Chris Colby took third in the 200 butter-
ﬂy, while sophomore Drew Catanese finished fourth
in the 100 butterﬂy. The men’s only senior, Rick Black,
swam his season bests in the 200, 100 and 50 freestyle
events. -

Pulsifer was quite happy with how the season turned
out. The Generals ended the year 5-4 in dual competition.

“I thought we raced quite well throughout the dual
meet season,” Pulsifer said. “We lost a couple of close
meets, primarily due to numbers. The swimmers grew as
expected this year — they were consistent and solid all
season, making personal progressions at every meet. All

RITTER

' but one swimmer hit a best time at Grove City.”

Follow W&L spring sports in the Phi.

Pick up a copy everyMonday or visit phi.w|u.edu.

 

