 

TI-:-' l~‘.I~.-- I’: .1‘?-=¢
TNSIDE
COW.-\Rl'J or ITIE  (D PAGE 4

I

 
   

 

orr. . . .at x.,\ r...
PHOTO COLIAGE (13 PA

  

R55“2—-
v. Idit
no.3

_.

HE

 

 

Vt

NGTo=.\' AND l..I:I-:I?'Ni‘\»"1iRSiITi

WASHINGTON AND  UNIVERSITY

 

NG-TUM

Niiaws
OI>INIoNs
\l{»"&l;II-"E
SRoRTs
24/7

SCOREB(_),»\RD

"-J i_\J  L1’! 1.).) [J

‘\’«:iI_I.'.\E2 (IEV, No. lil

i’.E:>;:NG:'o.\, VzRG:NI_A 2445[i

l\il0E\‘=DA‘t', S.r::>'I:s:DEER_ 24, 200i

HUNG TO DRY. About two inches of water covered the
second floor of Graham—Lees Thursday night.T0wels, rugs

MEG FERRARA/ Tlie Ring-tum Pii

and laundry lined the Graham—Lees courtyard and front
wall Friday, the only remaining signs of the ﬂooding.

, Permanent collection jars to be placed throughout campus and community

BY MEG HASTON AND lMRAN NAEEMULLAH
STAFF \X/RITERs

‘P Freshman Tran Kim taking ini-
tiative to help the country recover
from recent terrorist attacks. The
Richmond native is raising money for
the American Red Cross, which is

9

playing a large role in relief efforts in ._

both New York City and Washington,
D.C.
, “Seeing all the people that
died, all the families, it’s so tragic.
I didn’t like the feeling of being
o helpless,” Kim said.
With assistance from Dean of
Freshmen Dawn Watkins, she orga-
0 nized a relief fund drive on campus
because organizing an immediate
5 blood drive was nearly impossible.
The fundraiser, held last
Thursday in front of the Co-op,
Praised almost $900.
“During this kind of situation, you
V tend to feel so negative about the world

b

and pessimistic about human nature,”
said Kim. “Knowing that there are so
many good people who are willing to
be so generous with their time and re-
sources is very heartening.”

Fundraising efforts will con-
tinue indefinitely.

Collection jars will soon be
placed in locations such as Evans Din-
ing Hall, the University Center, local
stores, churches and the fraternity and
sorority houses.

Watkins will write the Red Cross
one large check for the combined efforts.

“It has been a pleasure work-
ing with Tran,” she said. “I was ex-
cited to see a freshman step out and
work hard on this project.

“She is surely an asset to the
Class of 2005 and Washington and
Lee University.”

Kim informed the campus of
the many blood drives held in
nearby cities and towns in the days
following the tragedy.

1AA chapter meets
-on W&L campus

. Meetings provide students help for addiction

BY DAPHNE TRAINOR
STAFF WRITER

Q A local chapter of the nationwide
Alcoholics Anonymous organization
Q. has added itself to the list of services
devoted to the well—being of W&L’s
Q student body.

Those interested now have the
option of attending meetings at
Fairfax Lounge.

Alcoholics Anonymous is an
international organization for men
‘ and women struggling with a drink-

ing problem. Membership is open

to anyone.
1 According to the organization’s
website, AA “is nonprofessional,
p self—supporting, nondenominational,
multiracial, apolitical, and available

5 almost everywhere.”

There are no age or education re-

. quirements.
Although AA was already pro-
viding services in the Lexington-
' . Rockbridge area to students as well
as community members, this is the
Q first time that meetings will be held

V on campus.
g The organization’s meetings
have been well received by many.

Junior Will Coffman, the only
p student member of the Alcohol
Task Force established last year,
said AA meetings are an option

It

 

 

open to those who think they may
need help.

“(The meetings) are a good
outlet for anyone who thinks they
need to go or who just wants to see
what (the meetings) are like,” he
said.

Although the Task Force was
not directly responsible for bringing
the AA meetings to campus, it had
previously recommended an in-
crease in substance-control options
on campus.

The Task Force lends its full sup-
port to the meetings.

W&L Health Educator Jan
Kaufman, the driving force be-
hind these meetings, considers
AA to be an excellent resource
for “students [who] are unsure
whether or not they have a prob-
lem or are concerned about their
level of drinking.”

Kaufman said the meetings can
help identify whether an addiction
problem exists or not.

“Attending a few meetings will
provide the answer to the question ‘am
I addicted?”’ she said.

While some say that the
University’s focus has been on pun-
ishment and regulations, the addition
of AA meetings on campus draws the
focus back to the students them-
selves, Kaufman added.

Students will have an opportunity
to donate on campus next month. Chi
Psi fraternity will sponsor a drive in
the Doremus Gym on Tuesday, Octo-
ber 23, from noon to 6 pm.

This drive should be the first of
several, said N abor’s Service League
President Carroll Thompson.

“NSL is fullywsupportive of
(the blood drives),” Thompson
said. “This is something
that...seems especially important in
light of recent events.”

But collections and blood drives
aren’t the only campus efforts.

Last Wednesday, Evans Dining
Hall sponsored “Skip a Meal,” a pro-
gram that donates the money other-
wise spent on meals. Greg Pearce,
associate director and executive chef
at D—Hall, said the participation of
460 students raised approximately
$1035 earmarked for the Red Cross.

For more information on how to
help, call 1-800-HELP NOW.

 

BY ALISON TRINIDAD
NEWS EDITOR

Three freshmen toss-
ing a football on their
dorm hall accidentally
knocked out a sprinkler
head last Thursday, ﬂood-
ing the second floor of
Graharn-Lees.

“We were trying to get
a hall-length pass,” fresh-
man Trent Hawthorne said.
Hawthorne, who was on
the receiving end of the
pass, jumped into his room
for towels after the water
began rushing out.

The incident happened
at about 9:30 pm in the se-
curity-side of Graham—Lees,
alsoatfecting someﬁrst—ﬂoor
rooms. No one was injured
and the only damages re-
ported included soaked rugs,
towels and laundry.

Junior Dan Tortora,
the hall’s dorm counselor,
was in his room watching a
movie when he heard some-
thing that sounded like a
ﬁre extinguisher going off.

 

IFreshmen ﬂood Graham-Lees

,“The sprinkler head
was shooting out a nasty,
smelly, gray water,” he
said. “You could barely
see because of the trust. It
smelled like a rainforest.”

Tortora immediately
called University Security
and the Physical Plant.

Hawthorne said
someone from the Physical
Plant tried to turn off the
streaming water by hitting
the sprinkler head.

“The (Physical Plant)
guy hit the sprinkler head
with a doorstop or some-
thing to try and divert the
water,” Hawthorne said,
“but then it came out
three— or four-tirnes worse,
all on his head.”

“It was a mess,” said
Director of University
Security Mike Young. “It
took a while to shut off
the water.”

Young said the water
continued to pour even
after the water valve was
shut because the water on

SEE FLOOD, PAGE 2

:Student coordinates relief effot

 
   

MEG FERRARA/Tire Ring-tum Pliz‘

HELP! Tran Kim (right) sits outside the Co-op to collect
money for the New York and Washington, D.C., relief
efforts. Kim, a freshman, organized a relief fund with help
from Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins. Proceeds will go

to the American Red Cross.

W&L CRIME STATISTICS

Burglaries

994 1995 1996 1997 1998

 

1999 2000 2001

Drug Violations

994 1995 1996 1997 1998

 

1999 2000 2001

Liquor Law Violations

655
65
645
64
63.5 ~
63
625
62
615
1997

1998

1999

 

2000

2001

BY MIKE AGNELLO
AssocIATE EDITOR

Students frequenting the Snack Bar or GHQ
are finding higher prices and fewer choices.
Both campus dining locations have
trimmed their menus and raised prices to cover
costs. The GHQ drastically reduced the num-
ber entrees, offering fewer than 10 items. The
GHQ lost nearly $50,000 last year. Dining Ser-
vices Director Gerry Darrell estimates that
W&L’s only choice for restaurant-style dining
lost more than half of its business to meal plans
at the new sorority houses. As a result, only the
most popular items, such as the Colonnade Club
Sandwich, were kept.
Darrell added that the cuts were necessary
to keep the GHQ open, and that a few new items
were added.
“We were really getting hammered,” Darrell
said. “There was talk of closing the GHQ, and
we came up with the menu to allow us to reopen.”
Junior Myles Svendsen cats at the GHQ
several times each week. Svendsen said he was
shocked by the reduced menu size.
“There’s basically nothing on the menu
now,” Svendsen said.
Dining Services has also attempted to boost
the number of GHQ patrons. Last year, fresh-
men were allowed to eat one meal per week in
the GHQ. This was raised to three per week
after last year’s losses.
The Snack Bar has also felt the squeeze
of dining services. Specialty items, such as the
black bean burger, were removed from the
menu. Prices have also gone up-10-20 cents

VMI cade s  
assault PiKA

BY JONATHAN WORTIIAM
STAFF WRITER

Virginia Military Institute cadets attacked two Wash-
ington and Lee students and one alumnus early Saturday
Sept. 15 at Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, witnesses said.

Scott Hook ‘00 said two plain-clothed males
“mooned” the PiKA house through the living-room win-
dows at around 2 a.m. Several sophomore PiKA brothers
went outside to assess the situation. Hook followed.

PiKA had a party earlier that evening, which was bro-
ken up by the police. The house was almost empty and
campus security had left before 2 a.m.

Hook said he and his sopho-
more brothers shook hands with the
men, who introduced themselves as
VMI cadets. Soon after, a cadet ran
through the group and started swing-
ing atone of the PiKA sophomores.

Hook took a step toward the
ﬁght in confusion, he said, and was
slammed against the house mother’s
door. After having his head knocked
against the door, Hook fell to the
ground unconscious. Witnesses say
that the cadet who was beating the sophomore PiKA
dropped him to begin punching Hook in the head.

There are still bloodstains on the house mother’s door.

Hook was treated at Stonewall Jackson Hospital for
a fractured jaw and a lost tooth. His jaw is wired shut,
forcing him to drink from a straw for the next six weeks.
Hook worked as an event marketer, where he visited col-
leges to talk and distribute pamphlets. Since he is unable
to smile and talk to people, he had to quit.

Later that morning, W&L junior John Polena, a PiKA
brother, was also attacked by plain-clothed cadets behind the
Beta Theta Pi fraternity house. He lost two front teeth and was
treated at Stonewall Jackson Hospital, where he saw Hook.

Hook, who worked in New York City and witnessed
the World Trade Center attack, said he came to Lexington
to take a break from the chaos.

“I would never ﬁght anyone in a million years,” he
said. “There’s no reason to do it, especially after 5,000
people died only three days before.”

VMI Public Relations Director Chuck Steenburgh
said that he was not aware of this speciﬁc situation.

“Any conduct that discredits VMI and the Corps of
Cadets is taken very seriously,” he said. “Both the Corps
of Cadets and VMI have their own methods of discipline,
and both are equally serious.” '

When asked what punishment would be rendered
in a scenario like this one, Steenburgh said that he
could not comment.

The case could go before VMI’s Officer of the Guard
Association, in which the likely punishment would be four
months of confinement and other service duties, said a
VMI first classman (senior). It could also go before the
Honor Court, the Corps’ highest disciplinary board. If

Scott Hook ‘00

SEE PIKA, PAGE 2

Dining services
cuts menus, services

on most sandwiches and 10-30 cents on spe-
cialty drinks such as Stewart’s sodas. Pizza was
raised from $1.50 to $2 per slice. Snack Bar
Manager Jeff Lynn said all increases were
small, and were necessary to offset price in-
creases by suppliers.

“All increases are a direct result of price
increases to us from our vendors,” Lynn said.

Some students were upset about the re-
duced selection of healthier items such as the
black bean burger and turkey burger. Sopho-
more Joe Mueller, a vegetarian, said he almost

ate at the Snack Bar.

“I was kind of upset about it,” Mueller said.
“It’s nice to have more choices.”

Although the price increases and smaller
menus might be necessary to cover costs, Din-
ing Services cannot explain their huge markup
on wholesale prices. Lynn admitted that the
Snack Bar charges 50 percent over cost for sand-
wiches and prepared food, and anywhere from
60-80 percent over cost for snacks. By contrast,
Stop In Convenience Store charges approxi-
mately 30 percent over cost. A Nature’s Valley
granola bar, which costs 75 cents at the Snack
Bar, can be bought for only 49 cents at Stop In.

Dining Services Associate Director Gre-
gory Pearce said dining services takes great care
in pricing its selections, and that such dispari-
ties in price are rare.

“I’d say that across the board, you get bet-
ter deals with us,” Pearce said.

The university requires that dining services
must make more money than is necessary to

SEE FOOD, PAGE 2

    

 

 

always ordered the black bean burger when he A

  

  

PAGE 2

PIKA from page 1

found guilty, the cadets would be expelled. Due to restric-
tions of double jeopardy, only one board can try the case.
The first classman said the incident has been “hush-
hush” around barracks. He said the cadets responsible
have high-ranking friends in the regiment.
“Somebody’s lying, because the stories are differ-
ent,” the first classman said. He asked not to be identiﬁed.
PiKA President Brendan Malone said his fraternity

NEWS‘

um$wAh%

will not risk any future incidents.

“No VMI [cadets] will be allowed in our parties from
now on,” Malone said.

Hook sent a letter to University Security Director
Mike Young, W&L Acting President Larry Boetsch and
VMI Commandant Col. Eric Hutchings, asking for help in
identifying the responsible cadets. Young forwarded the
letter to Lexington Police Department, which has a sepa-
rate investigation pending.

Alison Trinidad also contributed to this story.

FOOD from page 1

The university requires that dining services must
make more money than is necessary to cover costs. Din-
ing services sets a goal to meet all its costs and return an
extra 10 percent to the university. Pearce said these mon-
ies are not proﬁt.

“lt’s more like a contribution,” he said.

Pearce cited the attempts to keep the GHQ open,
new menu items and the new meal plan options as ex-
amples of dining services going the extra mile for stu-
dents.

“We in Dining Services are committed to serving
(students’) needs,” he said.

FLOOD from page 1

reserve had to empty. He said the re-
served water smelled badly because
it had stood so long in the pipes.

Tortora said two guys had
stripped to their boxers within 10
minutes of the rupture and dove
into the water. Female freshmen
from the third ﬂoor came down with
cameras, he said.

A group—effort clean-up had tow-
els hanging out to dry the next day.

“It was really cool, because the
whole dorm came with mops to help

out,” Hawthorne said. “At least a
dozen people were pushing mops. The
girls from the third ﬂoor started a towel
collection for the guys.”

Both Dean of Freshmen Dawn
Watkins and the Physical Plant sys-
tems director carne to help clean up.

“Dean Watkins was soaked,” said
freshman Jesse Cook.

Cook was taking a Spanish
test in his room when the sprin-
kler broke.

“Black water just started pouring
under the door,” he said.

Cook waited until the water

had subsided before leaving his
room and, instead, blocked his
door with a towel and a load of
laundry. He said Tortora instant
messaged him to make sure every-
thing was all right.

As of yet, no disciplinary action
has been taken. Young said Security
knows has not had a chance to speak
to the responsible party. Tortora said
the freshmen are apologetic and
should not be punished harshly.

“It was just a bunch of guys play-
ing football,” he said. “We’re going
to play lacrosse from now on.”

 

Laptop stolen

Two weeks ago a computer was stolen from sopho-
more Corinne Mathieu. Her Dell laptop was taken from her
carrel at Leybum Library, a facility continuously open to
the public.

Last year there were 17 burglaries into locked facili-
ties, in addition to the theft of 18 bicycles left unlocked
and unattended.

Director of Security Mike Young credits the
university’s strong honor system with such low numbers.
However, most thefts occur where the public has access.

Young warns, “If it’s important to you, don’t leave it
alone!”

Alumnus to speak on investing

Bill Miller ’72, CEO of Legg Mason Funds Manage-
ment Inc., will deliver a public address entitled, “The Out-
look for the Economy and the Market After the 11th of
September.”

Miller is regarded as one of the best mutual fund manag-
ers in the country: His fund is the only one to return higher

MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 24. 2001

proﬁts than the S&P 500 every year for the last decade. He
will also lecture during

The free lecture, sponsored by the Commerce _‘ '

School, will be held tomorrow night at 7 :30 in Lee Chapel.

Women’s leadership conference

Smith College is hosting the National Collegiate
Leadership Conference for Women on October 12- 14 in
Northampton, Mass. The conference is open to all col-
lege women interested in leading sports, government,
residence life, diversity groups, community service and
religious organizations. For more information contact 1

Amanda Adams, adamsa@wlu.edu. A

GASD formed 

Students disappointed in the effectiveness of Live 5

Drive and Safe Ride may soon have an alternative to get
a ride on weekend nights. Several students formed a

committee to replace Live Drive and Safe Ride with a 

single organization, Generals Advocating Sober Driv-

ing, or GASD. tg '

Members of the committee said they want to pro-
vide detailed maps of off—campus party locations so
that no student will have to worry about getting a ride.
Currently, students often cannot get rides from many

off-campus locations and wait as long as twenty rnin- 4

utes for the Live Drive or Safe Ride vans to show up.
The committee is trying to promote the organiza-
tion and receive funding from the university.

CRIME REPORT

The last issue incorrectly stated 1

Wednesday, Sept. 19

Hit and run. Car parked along Citations:
duPont Hall tagged between 12:30
p.m. and 4:30 p.m.

Noise violation. Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Fraternity.

Week of Sept. 10-16

1 Drunk in public
4 Minor in possession

Information provided
by Unversity security.

that work study wages were tax
free.The IRS regards work study‘
wages as taxable earnings; however,

to reach the first tax bracket.

Phi to accurately report the news. We

fact errors to phi @ wlu. edu.

in

CORRECTION g

most students do not make enough ‘a
It is the policy of the Ring- tum*

encourage our readers to report any‘

     

advertising works.
this

with

you're reading aren't you?
the Phi.

details.

advertise

Call 462-4060 for

wetlnestlav. santemher 26. 2001
9:00 II.m.

Jbinusfouranrfirstdeintell

      

2%];

eta»
'Ibday I
8 p.m..—Classics Club

movie. “Spartacus.” Com-
mentary by Prof. Miriam
Carlise. Northern Auditorium

8:30 p.m.—Java at the
GHQ. Open mic night.
'Iliesday,Sept.25

3 p.m.—Lect11re. Chris
Sautter, “The Florida Vote
and the Future of Re-
counts.” Moot Court-
room, Law School.

5 p.m.—Galler Recep-
tion. “Drawing Italy:

    
 

7



W&L Student Work from
Spring Term Abroad.”
duPont Gallery.

7 p.m.——SLAC/BARC
meeting. Science Center 214.

7:30 p.m.—Speaker.
William H. Miller III ‘72,
president of Legg Mason
Fund Advisers and portfo-
lio manager, Legg Mason
Value Trust. Lee Chapel.

7 p.m.——Student
Technology Training.
PowerPoint Presentation
Software. Tucker Multi-
media Center, Room 408,
Tucker Hall. To register,
go to
tmc.wlu.edu.

http://V

8 p.m.—Lenfest Series.
Garth Fagan. Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center.
Wednesday, Sept. 26

7 p.m-—0uting Club info
session. Outing Club House.
Thursday, Sept. 27
Yom Kippur.

8 p.m.——Independent
women. Fall intramural sports
info session. Doremus, 500-
level classroom.

Friday, Sept. 28

7:30 p.m.— Film Soci-
ety. “Croupier” (England,
1998). Directed by Mike
Hodges. In English. Not
rated by the MPAA. Trou-
badoirr-Cinema.

BIIIIIII 326
90|llIllBI'GB SGIIIIOI

Saturday, Sept. 29
10 a.m.—Mountain
Biking. Pedlar ATV Trails.‘
Outing Club House.
Noon—KA/Theta,
charity carwash for NY,
D.C. victims. $5, cost. 12-4
p.m. Freshmen parking lot. ’
7:30p.m.—F1lm Society. ,
“Croupier’ ’ (England, 1998).‘
Directed by Mike Hodges. In
English. Not rated by the?
MPAA. Troubadour Cinema.
Sunday, Sept. 30 *
7:30 p.m.—General’s
Christian Fellowship. “Be the
Unexpected.” Lee Chapel.
Email events to

phi@wlu.edu. .

‘V

5

If

is

 

 

6’i

 

  

’ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24,2001

 RlN{}—Ti at PIE

TAFF EDITORIAL

W&L’s next president, and
why students shouldn’t
expect to help select him

Members of the student body rightly com-
plain that they have little to no inﬂuence in the
selection of Washington and Lee’s 23rd presi-
dent. The “listening forums” held in Lee Chapel
are open jokes. The president should be “hon-
est,” “fair to fraternities,” “understanding.” Not
much to argue there.

Including one undergraduate on a faculty-
dominated Presidential Search Committee is a
token gesture. Reminiscent of the Alcohol Task
Force, that single student is adrift in the cur-
rents of professorial and administrative agen-
das, with minimal power to steer the process to
student interests.

Besides, no matter how inﬂuential a student
 could be, how can he begin to adequately repre-
. j  sent his 1700 undergraduate peers? And could the

. Board of Trustees afford for him to represent us?
I Consider the president’s duties. As Presi-
 dent of the Corporation of Washington and Lee,
_ he is its chief executive ofﬁcer. He is the only
‘  member of the Board of Trustees who does
,, not need to seek reelection after ﬁve years, or
is limited to two consecutive terms. He is ex
oﬁicio chairman of the faculty and appoints
and is a consulting member of its committees.
W And ﬁve deans, three directors, two vice presi-
i dents, and the university counsel report to him.
From admissions to discipline, the Presi-
 dent can mold the student body, encouraging or
; discouraging certain types of behavior--say, al-
:14 cohol consumption.

It is very possible that the Board will look for
an enforcer to lay down the law for the new al-
cohol policies. There are precedents. Many be-
‘ lieve that Dean of Students David Howison was
f brought in to strong-armthe Fraternity Renais-
I sance.

 And it is not merely for convenience that we
 have been using the masculine pronoun. We can
be almost certain that the next president will be a
. married white Protestant male, over ﬁfty, from an

ing wrong with any of this. We’re just not expect-
ing anything else. And since the ofﬁce demands
national standing, expect a politician who has never
been publicly wrong or inconveniently right.

TEE li.ti\lG~"i”Ulrt Phi

Uitiii i i. l'\il\\mi\
OPINIONS EDHUR
El\tIAII.'l<lR\ltlii‘\rl3@\l(/Ill.lEl)U

PINIONS

W’s masterful spech inspires

I hope that Americans, on both
sides of the aisle, now realize that they
elected a strong, decisive, purpose-
ful President. George W. Bush is cer-
tainly the right man for the job. Even
his worst detractors and harshest crit-
ics must acknowledge that his ad-
dress to the nation on Thursday night
was a brilliant performance.

Without question the best—deliv—
ered speech of his career, Thursday’s
address should be remembered by
history as a deﬁning moment in Ameri-
can oratory. The content was beauti-
fully written, both forceful and fair, de-
livering a strong message, expressing
sympathy for the victims, and boldly
announcing America’s firm resolve to
defeat the terrorist threat.

He was resolute. “Our grief has
turned to anger, and anger to resolu-
tion.” Expressing both sorrow and
esteem for the fire and police men who
gave their lives, Bush told Americans
that we must refocus our energies to
ensure that this never happens again.

The speech was constructed to
answer America’s questions. Why did
this happen? “They hate what they
see in this chamber: a democratically
elected government.” Bush attempted
to put in understandable terms the
sheer madness that would drive some-
one to commit such an act. He ex-

 

<rxrmsYc1=ABt;Nnvs(n\i
THE ROCK: President Bush shared his conﬁdence, resolution, and grief with America.

upperclass. background. Certainly tl1er.eis.nQth-., I

plained that, “They hate our free-
doms.”

How are we going to respond.
The President pointed out that,
“Americans should not expect one
battle, but a lengthy campaign unlike
any other we have seen.” This war is
not about revenge. America has no
bloodlust and our military will make
every effort to avoid civilian casual-
ties. That is why the
President delivered
our demands to the
Taliban. They had
they option to end
this war without any further blood-
shed. Instead, they have chosen to
reject out proposals for peace and “will
share in their fate.”

There have been and will be no
hastily designed missile attacks to
placate those calling for blood. The
President has directed our military to
conduct an operation that will not end
until terror is exterrninated.

RIGHT or THE AISLE
 America’s resolve

The best line came about halfway
through. ‘”I'hey’re heirs to all of the mur-
derous ideologies of the twentieth cen-
tury. By sacriﬁcing human life to serve
their radical visions, by abandoning
every value except the will to power,
the follow in the path of fascirn, Nazism,
and totalitarianism. And they will fol-
low that path all the way to where it
ends in history’s unmarked grave of dis-
carded lies.”

The President
yet again announced

and, simultaneously,
drew a line in the sand between our
righteous campaign for justice and the
despicable attacks on innocent civil-
ians. Moreover, he reassured Ameri-
cans by comparing the al Qaeda ter-
ror network to the enemies we have

faced in _the past. Although hidden,

there exists an enemy that we will seek
out an defeat no more definitively
than we defeated the Nazis or Impe-

rial Japan. Bin Laden is not that dif-
ferent from Hitler or Tojo; we will ﬁnd
him and he will be killed.

What was most noticeable, and
most meaningful, however, was the
honesty with which the speech was
delivered. President Bush truly
meant every word, and the tears that
welled up in his eyes when he held
aloft the policeman’s badge were
not for show, but were a genuine
display of emotion.

Unlike his predecessor, who
would have bit his lip and professed
that he felt our pain, President Bush
truly does sympathize. His emotions,
his concern, his anger, and his reso-
lution, came through in his speech
and no one doubted their genuine-
ness.

After President Bush’s address,
America can be certain that the ter-
rorism will be exterminated. As he said,
“We will not tire, we will not falter and
we will not fail.”

OTE OF THE WEEK:
at
‘L I’M NEVER REALLY HUNG
R OVER ANYMORE. I MEAN, I
D‘

I AM, BUT NOT LIKE DURING

t FRESHMAN YEAR.
-- SOPHOMORE GIRL TO FRIEND

Editor-in-chief MatthewB.McDemiott

 Associate Editor Mike Agnello
r News Editor Alison Trinidad
0 Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes

F Opinions Editor B1-ettT_Kii-wan
 Asst. Opinions Editor Andrew A, Latjmer
W&Life Editor Amy Blevins
SPOITS Editor Jeremy Franklin

 Asst. Sports Editor Dave Ci-owell

V} I-WOW‘ Edl70r KatieJ.Howell

‘ Photo Editor Mai-yGuy

, ‘.3 Photographer MegFen-ara

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager William Litton
 Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

,‘ The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be in the University
Center, by 5 pm on Friday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submis-
sions for content and length. Letters and colunms do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

L Annual Subscription Rate: $30

Letters to the Editor

America must respect mosques, etc.

Dear Editor,

I disagree with Kirwan’s statement that “externiinat—
ing” those responsible for terrorism must inlcude,
among other things, destroying their places of worship.
In fact, destroying their places of worship is a danger-
ous move as it could possibly be interpreted by the
Islamic world as an anti—Muslim statement. ‘Instead, let
us show that we understand the difference between
Islam as a religion and the terrorists who happen to be
Islamic, and leave the places of worship alone. Destroy-
ing mosques is analogous to destroying churches
because the KKK claims to be Christian. Places of
worship are sacred expressions of human spirituality
and as such should be respected.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ‘O3

Student recalls friends who perished in WTC

Dear Editor,

On August 28, as I was departing from my ﬁrst visit to
New York City, in Penn Station, I noticed a Jew in traditional
dress, a Hassid I think, and I watched him for a few seconds as
he descended an escalator.

Iremember thinking to myself that if only we could under-
stand why this man is what he is, why he goes this way and
not that, why he wears black and not white, then we would
know everything. But that was an idle thought, probably
extraneous to what I’m trying to say.

A few days before I was at a family friend’s house in New
Jersey having dinner with a New Yorker, a Jewish man, and his
wife. Idrankbeer, and everyone else drankwine. The man was
what you could call stereotypical, and he reminded me of the
scene from Annie Hall. He’s a real Jew, I thought to myself.

Maybe I’m a bigot for thinking that, but I did, and there’s

TALl<BAc1<:

 

 

“Chicken ﬁngers rock

 

no use getting away from the truth. He was affable and gre-
garious, and we discussed his daughter’s lack of academic
direction, the frustrations of working in large corporations,
and the beauty of the Semitic languages. He showed us the
pictures from his family’s trip to India. I found out a few days

ago that he worked in the World Trade Center and did not,

escape.

And yet much dearer to me is my friend and brother James
Gadiel, newly employed in the ﬁrm of Cantor Fitzgerald, of
whom my memories are all happy. I didn’t meet up with James
in the city; he was an entry—level broker and didn’t have much
time, I guess, but then I didn’t really try. The last time I saw him
was Fancy Dress. We ate at the same table, he and Mary side
by side as usual.

Of these three Jewish men, the ﬁrst will remain unknown
to me; the last two are brought together in a mountain of
destruction. I was going to end this by saying goodbye to the
dead in their ancestral tongue.

But the only word I know for that is Shalom, which I think
also means “peace,” something that was robbed from them in
their ﬁnal moments, and that may not be afforded to us who
carry on the memory of these days.

Sincerely,
William Martin ‘03

Representative Lee is not a coward

Dear Editor,

I would not characterize Representative Lee as a cow-
ard. An unpopular stance does not automatically makes
one a coward. In fact, I would be more inclined to charac-
terize the holder of an unpopular stance, such as Lee, as a
brave person who is not afraid to stand up for
her principles.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ‘O3

Patriotism  
Isn’tantI-Muslim

Americans must reject senseless hatred

The events of Tues., Sept. 11, 200 l—and the en-
suing days since then—have forced us all to go to bed
every night as a nation of one. No longer can we act
only for ourselves; whether we like it or not, we are a
nation at war.

Not a conventional war by any means, but a war
where the greatest enemy is the unknown. We must
unite in the face of evil by showing resilience against
the enemy. I ask you to unite against one of the enemy’s
friends, unjustified violence.

As you read this, know that in this land‘ of the
free and the brave, there are people who wish it
were otherwise. Someone shot to death Waqar
Hasan, a
storeowner in Dal-
las, Texas. Some-
one murdered
Balbir Singh Sodhi,
a gas station owner in Mesa, Arizona. Someone
killed Adel Karas, a market owner in San Gabriel,
California.

Each of these three gentlemen was an American.
Only one of them was Muslim: Mr. Hasan. Mr. Sodhi, a
Sikh, and Mr. Karas, a Christian, died because they
looked like stereotypical Muslims with their dark skin
and dark hair.

The man who charged with shooting Mr. Sodhi,
Frank S. Roque, said as he was being arrested, “I’m a
patriot. I’m a damn American all the way,” as quoted
in the New York Times. Mr. Roque is no patriot: real
Americans believe in the sanctity of life, and display
that by supporting punishments for those who kill
others.

_ Today, just like yesterday, and just like tomorrow,
we will live with the shadow of last Tuesday’s despi-
cable acts of cowardice. Our hearts still grieve, and we
yearn to heal our wounds.

We are all suffering, and our lives will never be
quite the same for what has happened. Yet, we cannot
let this emotional heartbreak fuel a ﬁre of hatred within
ourselves. ,

President Kennedy once wrote, “Those who
cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat
it.” In 19205 Germany, a proud and once strong
people were angered by the ridiculously low living
conditions brought about by the ruins of war. This
anger led them to accept the leadership of a man
named Adolf Hitler, who went on to lead the Ger-
mans into another horrific war, duringwhich he mas-

RIGHTTIIING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULIAH ‘O5

’ sacred 11 million people. We all know that Hitler

blamed and justified his acts on the Jews, who were
by and large innocent of the charges Hitler leveled
against them.

America in the year 2001 is very different from
19205 Germany, but the same anger and feeling of des-
peration is present. We have a very easy scapegoat in
the Muslims of America.

President George W. Bush recently visited the Is-
lamic Center of Washington, D.C., and while he was
there, he made some very courageous and necessary
statements. Among them he said, “The face of terror is
not the true faith of Islam. That’s not what Islam is
about. Islam is peace.” President Bush further noted
that America counts millions of Muslims amongst its
citizens, and they make an “incredibly valuable contri-
bution to our country.”

He reminded us that, “in our anger and emotion,
our fellow Americans must treat each other with re-
spect.”

Most importantly, President Bush emphasized that
American Muslims must feel safe. He said they should
not be fearful while they shop for their families, while
they go about their daily routines. Our ancestors fought
long and hard for this freedom of life; let us not destroy
it ourselves.

The core values of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity are honor, leadership, and learning. We can and
should apply these values to every aspect of our lives.
In doing so, we will heed the advice of our President
and uphold our freedom.

Let us be honorable by behaving as gentlemen
and ladies, as General Robert E. Lee taught during his
presidency at W&L. Gentlemen and ladies do not make
others feel unsafe or uncomfortable as a result of their
actions; rather, the true mark of a gentleman and a lady
is that they make others feel at ease.

Let us be leaders, by not stooping to the level of
the terrorists and using violence to vent our anger and
ease our pain. Let us be learners, by ensuring that our
actions be lessons worth remembering.

America will survive, and we will be strong. To-
gether, we will ﬁght our unknown enemy, and we will
destroy it. We shall unite together as a country. “We”
must mean all Americans.

riteD-hall chicken dish?

 

 

 

“The one that doesn’t

” “The one Called p°_rk:n the “The Cordon Bleu.” “Chickens tender, with honey.” , _ ”
my worl . Sloppy Joe mix. James Wright ‘O5 Mam» J_ Wright ‘O2 taste hke chicken.
—Michelle Chastain ‘05 —Mike Diverio‘05 -Brian Tinklepaugh ‘03

 

  

 

PAGE 4

It’s unduly amusing to observe
and study the ways in which W&L
has changed since my freshman
year. By amusing, I mean slightly
disturbing.

Our revered bubble has morphed
so greatly in the last few years that I
tentatively hypothesize that we will
be attracting a completely different

; group of perspectives in the years to

come.
I have been doing extensive re-

‘ search outside the

Co—op, a.k.a. the
Cooperational Fa-
cility of Glory, and
have taken note of
the following transformations and/
or annoying nuances:

1.) The Lexington Police, I’m
not even kidding, have a Wanted
Dead or Alive poster of me in their
headquarters. I can’t go a mere week
without getting pulled over, typi-
cally for “drunk driving” while I’m
sober.

But if not that, there’s always a
whole plethora of moving violations

in perilous times, conservative group works to divide nation that is looking for unity

NoRTHERNER’s EXPOSURE
KRIS POLLINA ‘03 as

that can peg me with. My favorite
was when after I blew a zero on the
breathalyzer, an unnamed officer
said, “You know your gas tank door
is broken. How long has it been this
way?”

I’ m sure the only reason he didn’t
give me a ticket for this was because
he probably saw another W&L driver
whose car looked suspiciously colle-
giate.

2.) There has been rampant cell
phone usage inun-
dating the campus
of late. The

school is so small

that I imagine the
only conceivable conversation could
be, “You’re in Payne? No kidding! I’m
in Newcomb! Huh!”

Anyone at the other end of the
line, because of geographical and de-
mographic statistics I don’t care to
go into, would be within 50-foot ra-
dius of you.

3.) After a careful examination of
last Saturday morning, I noticed some
differences between tailgating last

Uiiiivions

year and this year.

Logistically speaking, it’s a lot
harder to maneuver around this
year because you’re limited to walk-
ing up and down sorority row, with
no freedom to roam and frolic like
deer in a meadow. In addition, the
capricious social attitude was some-
what lacking, a mentality that fu-
els the success of Parents’ Week-
end.

4.) All the construction going
on is making me nervous. And my
sympathies extend to the J -school
students who are forced to have
their classes in such small quar-
ters.

I guess there’s a certain
ironic sweetness to being able to
say, after you’re a world-re-
nowned journalist, that you
learned everything you know in
a trailer park.

5.) D—hall prices went up. I
long for the days of slithering into
the D—hall for Sunday brunch,
swiping my unlimited meal plan
card, and eating 14 or 15 bowls of

cereal.

My roommates and I went this
year, and we each all had to part with
$7 to eat a peanut butter and jelly
on a bagel.

I guess dietary habits have
changed in the past couple of
years, too, proportionate with D-
hall inﬂation.

6.) Last, but not least, the new
alcohol policies. I absolutely will
not go into a ranting and raving
diatribe.

Actually, I’m not going to say
anything at all about it. Just that it’s
definitely changed a degree of the
W&L lifestyle.

It’s a rough time to be a joumal-
ist around here. It’s like walking on
eggshells talking about alcohol here.
Everyone’s sick of hearing about it.
No one wants to antagonize the ad-
ministration. Good thing I changed
my major.

I’m not really complaining. None
of the aforementioned differences
have kept me awake at night; I’m just
asserting how much, in the span of

Junior reﬂects, on changing face of W&L campus

   

MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 24. 2001

¥

FILE PHOTO / Rnvc-TLMPH1
THE WAY IT USED To BE: The new alcohol policies have relegated to the past the days

of well-lubricated alumni socials on the Hill.
two years, W&L has changed from now, when I am sitting on my porch,

its original form. Like a metamorpho- and the crink in my knee is foretell-
sis. ing rain, I will still remember W&L

Or maybe like Darwin’s theory fondly, even with rising D—hall
of survival of the fittest. Years from prices.

This week’s topics for an editorial were limitless. But
it was not until a friend pointed out a small mention on the
front page of Friday’s Wall Street Journal that I decided to
do some digging into a particular organization.

I decided to take a look at the American Conserva-
tive Union, and I realized that even in a time where our
nation should be united, party lines are still first on some
people’s minds.

During a time when our Republican President is plead-
ing with Congress to stay uniﬁed, the ACU is planning a
mud slinging ad campaign against Democrats. The sub-
ject of this campaign is the controversial national missile-
defense system.

The ads will take the names of certain Democrats
that are against the treaty-breaking defense network, say-
ing the following: “Do you know (your Democratic rep-
resentative here) is trying to prevent President Bush from
protecting America?”

The real truth here is that these Democrats are attempt-
ing to keep America from throwing money at missile defense
when our money could be much better spent at the moment.

What’s more, we all saw the protests and heard the words
of Europe’s political leaders against this missile—defense sys-
tem. Many of these Democrats are realizing that building this
system, which Russia has stated would make all treaties we
hold with them null and void, is just bad politics.

In an international society such as our little planet,
you simply cannot do whatever you want because you
have the money to throw at a problem.

Money. Now I am no economist, but that is an inter-
esting topic at the moment. Does America have then
money to spend on this defense system right now?

Well, have you seen the performance
of the Dow since it reopened? Miserable,
as to be expected. All this in a time when
people are driving around with bumper stick-
ers stating, “Thank me for your tax refund. I
voted for Bush.”

Honestly, I think that money would be better suited in
the hands of the government now. No tax refund could
serve as the kick in the pants the economy needs right now.

Again, I am going to remind everyone that Congress
was telling the White House before all this occurred that
the $9 million Social Security surplus was needed just to
balance our budget this year.

Thus, we have a problem. We as a nation are now to
largely fund an international war on terrorism. It sounds like
a great idea. However, it seems impossible and very costly.

Now do not think that I have no respect for the im-
portance of our military. My sister who is an Ensign for
the United States Navy would have my head on a plate.

I am also not stating that we should not make some

 
 

""""""""" ”LEfF7§i5CEi§i~El"

sort of military strike against Osama bin Laden’s terrorist
regimes and the nations that we know are harboring them.

However, the full reach of his network is yet to be deter-
mined yet. The Bush administration is currently at odds over
who all is to blame. Some are saying get bin Laden, while others
are wondering if Iraq is not also to blame. There is still as of
now, too many unanswered questions.

I am saying the members of the Ameri-
can Conservative Union should remem-

NICHOLAS RAMSEY ‘O3 ber the words of the President in his ad-

dress Thursday night. “We will direct ev-
ery resource at our command — every means of diplomacy,
every tool of intelligence, every instrument of law enforce-
ment, every financial inﬂuence, and every necessary
weapon of war — to the destruction and the defeat of the
global terror networ 
What the American Conservative Union does not
realize that this is not solely a military battle. We are
seeking people in shadows, hiding in all places, and
troops, bombs, and aircraft, may prove to be part of
the solution, but our military alone cannot win this
war. A war that Bush himself stated is against more
than ninety nations holding terrorists.
We have them in our own borders. We cannot forget
the deadly bombing in Oklahoma City where a male, white,
American citizen attacked his own countrymen. Terror-

ists are everywhere, which is what is most frightening.

Meanwhile, the ACU is stating Democrats will sup-
port “meaningless treaties and (continue to) confer moral
equivalence on the nation’s enemies.”

While the grassroots organization states it realizes that
this would in no way protect against the type of attack Ameri-
cans saw on the September 11, they say should serve as a
wake—up that missile-defense is needed. I am not so sure.

The days ahead will prove to be among the most difﬁ-
cult that Washington has every seen. As the President said,
we need to employ all our resources of diplomacy, intelli-
gence, ﬁnance, law enforcement, and national defense.

The ACU needs to understand that at this point, ,

America’s resources can be infinitely better served
in these places rather than throwing more money at
controversial idea from the Reagan era. It remains
to be seen if a missile defense system will even work.

We do know, however, that our diplomacy with
our allies will work. We do know that investing more
money in our intelligence forces will work. We do know
that the power of the dollar is vital as a weapon against
these terrorist networks.

We also know that our current weapons of war can

be well employed in this battle. But most importantly, we .

know that a nation of united elected officials working
together is the best weapon America has.

‘ .

    
    
  
   
   
     

 

u_} u. .

 ti :“s:_c5z; rs

- 5 '

'lu—u-n ‘nu us 1 u--‘in’

t\t



/i/iﬂﬂ/iﬂﬁﬂﬂ/iﬂ/I/i/i/tﬂ/l

13 E. NEISDN ST. LEXINGTON [Still ) 4&4-4433

WEDNESDAY NIGH T 15

LADIES NIGHT
"" free-vjukezlaoxzallz 
* cflrénlo specials’
*  $50.00 
ally World/( Wulmwrf)
. i3.ti9i‘f~'iEZ.§$Tl5'~?liC'lt1-1-ll‘ 3,4-‘.5113 
 -GR_i3’3t+'-‘TSail‘ié4fF?"ifii‘ii’-.‘9""f3*i'i.<~’5’l?’ =i’*?lT=4iT‘9r- 

IiNiNNlt|iIi#|#i#i#I

tP-.!r“\_‘|F\.!?'-lI‘\ir‘\-.*l~ It 4i‘P'~J"-J.Ir"'~.£I"'~.'lI"'~lI"‘~£r'

N t-"kt.-r*-.§-..=ir -t-tﬁ§-.i~‘-t- -t~.;M"xu\.a

iv

 

   

 
  ~ ~ 



 

  
 

llnll A/141.4 \ Au.)

 E Rl;\'{5-~'l‘lfZ\i PHI W&LlFE EDITOR
&LIFE Wee
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2001 PAGE 5

Customs, new freshman orientation program, starting slow in its first year
of inception, lacks attendaoe by new students

AGAINSTNAIURE

BY MICHAEL LEE
STAFF WRITER

Iate-night
librarian
reviews job

MELANIE HARRIS
STAFF WRITER

W&L’s admissions office has
consistently chosen a student body
composed of freshman who left high
school as active volunteers, captains
of sports teams, leaders in student
government, editors of school publi-
cations and much more. Many don’t
realize that the faculty and staff drawn
h L to our university also boast notable
A activities that would impress any col-

lege admissions board member.
Only night owls on campus
. would recognize one of these staff
p members: Wanda Pickle, the night
; desk attendant in Leybum Library
since the fall of 1995.
Pickle works from 12 to 8 a.m. as-
sisting patrons, checking items in and
.9 out, reshelving and preforming library
support activities. Pickle conducts
,. searches and makes reports for ad-
rriinistrative use.

“I really like this job, andllike the
midnight shift,” Pickle said.

Pickle worked in a variety of occupa-
tions in her years before coming to W&L.

Pickle has worked in payroll at a
children’s garment factory, at adrnis-
sions in a large city hospital in the

he Customs program is off to a rocky start, if Thursday

evening’s “Crimes Against Nature” presentation is any in-
dication. Although the event was pro moted heavily in the Cam-
pus Notices and in posters in the freshman dormitories, few
freshmen attended. Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins said that
the Customs program was suggested before she took office,
but acknowledged that it was her responsibility to carry it
through its inception.

Because many Customs programs are not
yet completed, Watkins did not know how many
freshmen are still eligible for the prizes that make
up the incentive program for Customs atten-
dance.

Watkins pointed out that the program was
being evaluated as it progressed, and she hoped
most freshmen had taken the opportunity to learn
more about the

Chris Kilmartin, the one-man show per-
former in “Crimes Against Nature” is a pro-
fessor of psychology at Mary Washington
College. Kilmartin, a father of two, has per-
formed the show at numerous colleges, from
Virginia to Nebraska.

The autobiographical performance por-
trayed a boy learning masculinity as he grew

up. The boy learns life lessons, ev-

D.C. area, as asecretary atalocal high W&L commu— . . erything from his father’s “Awk-
school and at the Natural Bridge. nuty. I W111 be saddened If only 50 or 60 ward Paternal Lecture Series” to sex
Pickle said, “By the Grace of God, Of those freshmen were able to complete the education in a Catholic school.

it was my good fortune to be hired to
work here at W&L’s Leybum Library.”
Pickle’s varied resume earned her the
honor of receiving an award for “Most
Unusual Jobs” at a high school reunion.

students at-
tending the
C u s t o m s
events, some
appreciate the

In the performance,
Kilmartin mentioned how men tend
to keep one seat in between each
other while at the theater. Three
freshmen had created this “Homo-

program, if for no other reason than

that the majority of students will not

have been ex osed to the richness of
P

“It was better than ‘Having the Most
Gray Hair’ or ‘Being Bald!” said Pickle.
In the free time her late-night job

new approach
to orientation.
Freshman Corey

tradition here.
DAWNWATKINS
DEAN or FREIIIMEN

Safety Zone” when they first sat
down.
The Customs program was

Harmon liked

the Customs

program so much that he contacted Dean
Watkins about finding an alternate program
to attend when he discovered that would be
forced to miss a session because of a class
commitment.

“I was surprised that more people aren’t
doing this program — it’s very different than any
other orientation,” said Harmon. When asked
how he felt the programs could be improved, his
only suggestion was that they should not be
made mandatory, or students will not enjoy them.

Unfortimately, Corey’s enthusiasm was not
shared by the freshman class. Only thirteen people

allows, Pickle stays busy as a business-
woman and outdoorswoman. Pickle
and her husband rent canoes, kayaks
and tubes on the James River. The
couple owns and operates Wilderness
Canoe & Kayak at Natural Bridge, a
business they started in 1994.

Pickle and her husband live in a
250—year old log house on about 30
p acres on the James River at Natural

Bridge Station.
“It’s hard work, long days, and
Q very little free time during the sum-
mers,” Pickle said, “But we like it.”
To add to her busy life, Pickle also

originally to be called Passports.

The name was changed to prevent
confusion with the publication from the Of-
fice of International Education with the name
Passports.

The Customs program is designed to pro-
vide a longer orientation period for freshman
and teach them more abdutwhat being a stu-
dent of W&L is all about by teaching them
more about the customs, values and traditions
of W&L.

The program offers rewards including a
ten speed mountain bike and a skydiving trip.
This is the first time W&L has used such a
large portion of its budget to pay for student

A spends much time sewing for her were in the audience at Lenfest Center incentives.
granddaughter and participating as an on Thursday night. Five of the fresh— I . d th t 1 ,t “Crimes
4. active member of her church. men stayed afterwords for an hour to was Surpnsc a more peop C “en Against Nature”

Pickle is thrilled with the stu-
dents, community and faculty here at
Washington and Lee University.
“Most of the students I see—what
3 are they doing up so late, don’t they
know it is a school night?——are smart,

_‘ courteous, studious.” said Pickle. “I like
the fact that their scope is so broad,
their interests are so diverse.”

doing this program — it’s very different
than any other orientation.

COREYHARMON

discuss the program. Project Horizon
members also stayed afterwords to an-
swer questions.

Freshman Jeb Brooks attended
the event. Brooks said he likes the
Customs Program.

“The programming has been very effective,
and has done a good job of getting students
involved,” Brooks said. Brooks was eager to

was sponsored
by the Office of
Health Promo-
tion and Dean of
Freshmen.

Jan Kaufmann, director of the Office of
Health Promotion introduced Kilmartin. The
show was also facilitated by members of LIFE
(Life—style Irifonnation For Everyone) and dorm

f Pickle said she envies the many see the show because he had eaten dinner with counselors.
opportunities W&L students have. the performer. . “I will be saddened if only 50 or 60
p “The future is wide open to them, ........ _, Chris Walker said “the presentation was freshmen were able to complete the pro-

 

and I am so pleased to see them take
full advantage of what is offered to

1 them.” said Pickle.
Pickle appreciates the close-
’ ness and inclusiveness that re-

good enough to merit more people coming,”
but grudgingly admitted that he had only at-
tended to take a break from his Latin home-
work.

gram, if for no other reason than that the
majority of students will not have been ex-
posed to the richness of tradition here,”
Watkins said.

neighbor’s garage. In the performance, I\'ilmartin
said this was the first time he was exposed to
pornography and how he later learned how damaging
it was to women.

O00}-I LA LA: “Oh look, there’s a rabbit on the cover of
this magazine. This must be about animals.” Chris
Kilmartin reeriacts the time when as a young teenager
he and friends stole and read dirty magazines from a

    
  
 
 

sults from a network of involved
¢ membe-rS~ ' ' ' BIC Wite Out Plus with foam brush 2.15 ‘ 1.79
h 1 The  comniunity a1: 3 6  S I I   1 I I Kodak27exposure,onetimeusecamera 13.95 12.99
. W ° 3. ‘S 5° .”‘° “SW 3”‘ ‘“° .6 ° Lady Speed Stick gel 399 2.95
V I away in the library every night while Olds , D d I _ al 279 229
_ most people sleep, but I am not for— ' _ plce 60 eram Ongm ‘ '
  . gem... Pickle Said. ..S0meb0dy CV8 overall cheaper for even/da y items than 00 op Cherry Chapstick 1.89 1.39
makes sure that I know what is going Pfoduct C0-Op CVS RENU multipurpose solution 4.69 3.99
* on in the W&L community and I 6BIC original shavers 2.69 2.39 Sudafed severe cold formula 5,19 799
i know I can be 3 Part Of it” R€€S€’S PB CUPS 0-69 0-55 Tylenol extra stregth gel caps 4.99 3.89
t I 5° “W “me Y°“’“‘ “P We Pilot Precise rolling ball pen 2.09 1.99
M étudying Sr hage anv1:,rgzt(i3.g:1tut.)_ Bounce fabric softener sheets 2.79 2.99 _ _ _ , ,
9 . mg’ “OP Y 3“ See an 3 1° 6 1“ Results ﬁnd that Sudafed, Glue sticks cheaper at umversity shopping option.
Leyburn. She would be delighted to Herbal Essence Shampoo 439 3'99 - - - - -
A hear from you. Glue Sm (yellow, Orange, fuschia) 0'79 099 Information compiled by W&Life editor, Amy Blevins.

,$YR.¢i.CU=.5E§
UNEVERS TV

 

Space donated by The Ring-tum Phi
imly

 :3 orm
Sp ‘ " "
H :2: mg "Item g1
EF r'rs:n=ce.
.A.f=rr.:-.21.

Spring Break 2002!!! Student Express is now hiring sales reps. Cancun features FREE meals and parties @ Fat Tuesdays-
MTV Beach Headquaters. Acapulco, Mazatlan, Jairnaica, Bahamas, South Padre, Florida. Prices from $469, with major airlines.
24,000 travelers in 2001. Call 800-787-3787 for a FREE brochure or email: bookit@studentexpress.oom. wvvw.studentexpress.oom

    

 

V M _ 
int; Riéxtse-T*:i,::Rili Pitt SPOKISEDIIOR

I   PORT 
PAGE 6 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER, 24, 2001

42-10 Win

Centre pays back 2000 home loss

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

BY MATTHEW A. COUKSEN
SPORTS WRITER

Colonels otaerl rol to

  

Centre College amassed 447 yards of
total offense Saturday as the Colonels ran
over Washington and Lee 42- 10.

The loss for the Generals (1-2) comes
after a solid performance last week against
Guilford in the home and Old Dominion
Athletic Conference opener in which the
Generals limited the Quakers to 201 yards
of total offense.

This week, however, was a different
ballgame altogether. The Generals totaled
only 166 yards of total offense on 63 plays
from scrimmage, only three fewer plays than
Centre. The difference in the game: the Gen-
erals were 0—12 on third down conversions.

“We just didn’t convert on third downs,”
said junior tight end Jay Thomas, who scored
W&L’s only touchdown on the afternoon.

W&L’s offensive performance was
unsettling. They just could not con-
vert the big plays. Sophomore Peter
Dean and freshman John Barnwell com-
bined for 81 yards passing and com-
pleted only eight passes on 28 attempts.
Sophomore Sean‘McGarvey completed
two of his three passes, including the

One year after getting trounced by Washington’ and
Lee at their own Farris Stadium in Danville, Ky., Centre
College had revenge on their minds Saturday. \

The Colonels avenged last season’s 45-7 loss, and then
some, by stomping the Generals 42-10 at Wilson Field.

“There was definitely revenge on our minds after get-
ting beaten so bad last year,” said senior quarterback Drew
Mildren, who completed 15-of-23 passes for 190 yards
and two touchdowns, both to classmate Joe Guthrie.

Centre jumped out to a 21-3 first quarter lead, extending
that to 35-3 by halftime. Coach Andy Frye, who earned his
first win against W&L in four tries, thought that his tearn’s a
momentum kept the Colonels rolling through the entire half.

“We got them early, and that was the big thing,” Frye
said. “We exploited the special teams early,. and we got
two big runs from Jeremy Britt. Before you know it, they’re
struggling like we were last year.” .,

Britt, a sophomore who joined the Colonels this year,
rushed for 150 yards, 130 of which came in the first half to
complement his two TD runs. Senior Brian Britt returned
an early punt 57 yards for a score and later intercepted a
pass from sophomore Peter Dean. 4

The younger Britt believed that his offensive line held
the Generals’ defense at bay every time he took the haridoff.

MARY L rz-tmPhi

LONG DAY FOR W&L: junior Chris Sullivan is brought down by 15 times for 74 yards, but the Colonels outgained the Generals 447-

0 O O O
    B    Despite playing even with Old than our last game, and we showed .,
I Dominion Athletic Conference oppo- the conference a lot.”
_ _ I ' O nent Roanoke for more than 80 rnin- Senior Deidra MacLeod made four st
Campbell ends up 5th overall as W&L frmshes 17 strokes ahead of closest ODAC opponent in home meet uteswednesdayetheWeshmeten and  in net for the Generals.
8 Lee ﬁeld hockey team is still looking Roanoke senior Jodi Godbout fin- A
By JEREMY FRANKLIN “We were happy with the score Senior Kyle Ulep was second for Guilford-sponsored events next for their first varsity win at the W&L ished with three saves, including a
SPORTS EDITOR that we had,” W&L coach Gavin W&L withacombined 152, followed month: the Tom O’Byrant Invita- Turf Field. key step on W&L senior Courtenay .
Colliton said. “I think that the guys by junior Chuck Green at 154 and se— tional Oct. 1-2 in Greensboro and Maroon junior defender Nicole Fisher in overtime. ' 8
Junior Chip Campbell shot a com- were a little disappointed, but we’re nior Curtis Bethea at 156. Junior David the Aubrey Apple Invitational Oct. Yodice scored off across from the right Although she was pleased with her
 bined 146 as the Washington and Lee setting the table for the rest of the Haase ﬁnished at 158, just out of the 8-9 in Clemson, N.C. corner with 3:06 remaining in the first team’s performance, Orrison still knows S
; golfteam placed thirdiiitlie BuckI_.eslie season. With a 303 average those two scoring for the Generals. “We think we can compete with 15-minute sudden death overtime to her team has several aspects to improve.
I Invitational, held Monday and Tuesday days, that’s pretty good.” Colliton was satisfied with (Guilford) and win the title this year,” give her team a 1-0 win. The Generals “We’ve got things to work on,” she L 7

TD Pass to Thomas. Centre sjarrod Zywein (40) as Eric Heyman looks on. Sullivan rushed 166 on offense with a 42-10 win Saturday at Wﬂson Field. “The line did a greatjob blocking,” he Said. “I did-n,thave C.
At times, though, when it seemed the Senior Centre quarterback Drew Mildren on the Generals’ first possession of the ers. It was a land of cumulative fatiguing ef- to worry about anybody touching me for at least ﬁve yards,”

chains might start moving for the Gener- completed 15-of-23 passes for 190 yards game, senior kicker Brad Wiginton launched feet, I guess. There was no emotion out there, Frye, in his fourth year as the Colonels’ head coach, says 7

als, an interception or a penalty would fur- and two touchdowns. The Colonels’ effec- a 33-yard ﬁeld goal to make the score 7-3 which was very disappointing to me.” his team’s offense is the best that he’s seen in his short »

ther diminish any chance of a comeback.

Junior running back Chris Sullivan had
a solid performance through a series of
dives, traps and draws that moved the ball
for the Generals. Sullivan had 74 yards rush-
ing on 15 carries for the day.

In front of a home crowd of 2,200, W&L
seemed to be anesthetized. Though time
of possession was nearly even, with Cen-
tre having the ball 3:04 longer than the
Generals, the Colonels used their time to
score points.

tive passing attack was complemented by
its ground game, led by sophomore run-
ning back Jeremy Britt.

On Centre’s first possession of the
game, Britt ran 44 yards around the right
end into the Generals’ end zone for his
first of two touchdowns on the day. Fol-
lowing a Nicholas Zilich point-after kick,
the Colonels led the Generals 7-0 only 1:07
into the contest.

To answer the Colonels, after one first
down and five consecutive rushing plays

with 10:50 remaining in the first quarter.

The Colonels followed with four unan-
swered touchdowns on a punt return im-
mediately following Wiginton’s first quar-
ter field goal, a reception for Guthrie, an-
other run by Jeremy Britt and a run by
Travis Bell to end the first half.

At halftime, the Colonels were leading
W&L 35-3, and they would never look back.

“It seems like we couldn’t tackle their
backs,” W&L coach Frank Miriello said. “Our
defensive backs couldn’t tackle their receiv-

Senior linebacker and captain Jeff Bahl
had this to say about the overall defensive
performance: “It really just snowballed on
us. After that punt return (for a touch-
down), they really had us on our heels.”

Not until early in the fourth quarter did
W&L score again, when McGarvey hit
Thomas for the 34-yard strike. Wiginton’s
extra point made it 42-10.

The Generals return to ODAC play Sat-
urday with a 1 p.m. road contest against
Randolph-Macon.

tenure at the helm of the program. Centre had 305 yards of
total offense in the first half and 447 for the contest.

“Our offense is a lot better than it’s been the last three
years, but that’s because we’ve got a lot of seniors who’ve
matured,” Frye said. “Our running game has improved drasti-
cally, from being one-dimensional last year. We’re just better.”

The Colonels now return to Southern Collegiate Athletic
Conference play, where they meet another W&L opponent.

“Next week, we’ll be facing a tough Sewanee team, and
they’ll probably be undefeated too,” Mildren said. “It’ll
be a tough one. That’s the SCAC, and that’s important to
us for playoffs and everything like that.”

W&L opens ODAC play with a buzz

Wasps, Yellow Jackets no match for preseason conference favorite as volleyball wins both matches at home

MARY Gn'/ T/Jr Ring-lrmr P/Jr‘

LICENSE TO KILL: Freshman Michelle Chastain (13), who finished with 10 kills,
prepares to attack a ball in W&L’s 30-19, 30-28, 30-17 win over Randolph-Macon
Saturday at the Warner Center. Senior Leslie Fischbeck (21) watches the play.

 at the Lexington Golf and Country Club.

Cainpbell’s ﬁfth-place finish was

 part of the team’s two-day total of 606,

 which placed it “I was pretty pleased,” he said. “We have a pretty balanced Colliton is more directin express- the first win since I’ve been coach- W&L dropped to 1-4 on the sea- 4

I behind Averett “I struggledalittle bit the first day, team,” Colliton said. “Any given ing his team’s g0alsin2001-02. ing here that we’ve had on turf,” son Saturday with a 3-0 loss to

; (576) and and held it together pretty well. day, we could have two or three “We don’t think about the other Roanoke coach Julie Mazer said. “It Catawba in Salisbury, N .C. Kristin *
 Christopher The second day, I just played guys down that low, so there’s not ODAC teams, we just keep them at was abig game, because it was acon- Pannenbacker scored just 26 seconds "

1 Newport (584). pretty solid.” a lot of pressure on any one of them. bay,” said Colliton, whose team fin- ference game.” in off an assist from Taryn Gordon
 Drexel wound Toni Karj alainen and J anne At the same time, we need to con- ished 17 strokes ahead of the clos— W&L coach Wendy Orrison was Gordon added a goal at 23:24, and ‘l
g up fourth with Mommo each turned in a combined tinue to take strokes off what they est conference foe in the Buck Leslie pleased with herteam, which did every- Kristin Zweizig secured the final mar- 0* 3

 ascore of611,
 and Roanoke
T rounded out

3 the top ﬁve at

 

Campbell shot a 74 on Monday,
following that up with a 72 on the sec-
ond day of competition.

141 for Averett. Third and fourth in
the individual standings belonged
to Christopher Newport, as Ryan
Greer shot a 142 and Chris Kline

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington~and Lee vol-»
leyball team began its 2001 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference sched-
ule with a pair of impressive victo-
ries over Emory and Henry on
Wednesday and Randolph-Ma-
con on Saturday morning.

The Generals defeated the
Wasps 30-22, 30-23, 30- 15, then doini—
nated most of their contest against
the Yellow Jackets, coming up with
a 30-19, 30-28, 30-17 victory.

“It’s a great start,” coach Bryan
Snyder said. “I’m glad because
Emory and Henry and Randolph-
Macon are not bottom-of-the-bar-
rel teams. Those are the teams nip-
ping at our heels and hungry to
knock us of .”

In Wednesday’s matchup, the
Generals (10-1, 2-0 ODAC) were led
by senior outside hitter Lindsay
Ruckert, who totaled 1 1 kills and ﬁve
digs.

Junior Stacey Kirnmel posted 10
kills and seven digs, while fresh-
man Emily Wolﬁng added 10 kills,
three aces, and 10 digs. Freshman
setter Jennifer Lux recorded 30 as-
sists.

“We had a very balanced effort

Campbell’s performance, adding that
any one of W&L’s top ﬁve can lead
the team at any tournament.

hit this weekend.”

The Generals will now look to
compete with Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference powerhouse

on Wednesday,” Snyder said. “Ev-
eryone seemed to step up whenever
we needed some big plays.

“We have ﬁve great ‘offensive op-
tions, which takes pressure off of any
one player.”

The Generals received a number
of tremendous efforts to ensure a vic-
tory on Saturday.

W&L dominated play in the first
and third games, but met some ﬁerce
resistance from the Yellow Jackets,
who reeled off a late run and at-
tempted to avoid a 2-0 deﬁcit.

“We struggled in the second
game, but I think we handled the pres-
sure very well,” Snyder said. “When
they got the late rally, we took a timeout
and responded with a sideout. We
made key plays when we needed to.”

Ruckert and freshman Michelle
Chastain each amassed 10 kills, while
Ruckert added nine digs.

Kimmel played strong defense,
contributing ﬁve digs while adding
eight aces. Lux ﬁnished with 31 as-
sists.

“(Lux) has really done a great job,
taking control of the offense and
moving the ball well,” Snyder said.
“She’s been able to get everyone in-
volved on the court.”

The Generals travel to Guilford on
Tuesday for a 6:30 p.m. match.

Campbell said. “We have everybody
returning, so we have a good core
group of players.”

Invitational. “We’re trying to gain
ground on Guilford.

“We have a goal, and that goal is
to win the conference and get to the

OT loss leaves field hockey

searching for first hoe win

MFJ-{UL SRIVr\S1‘A\’A/ The Ringturn Phi

ROLLING ALONG: Freshman Ali Santoro scrambles for a loose ball in W&L’s 1-0
overtime loss to ODAC opponent Roanoke Wednesday at the W&L Turf Field.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

fell to 1-3 in the ODAC despite
outshooting Roanoke 8-5.
“It’s a big win for us, because it’s

thing but walk away with the victory.
“We set ﬁve goals for the team,

and we did four of those,” Orrison

said. “The only goal we didn’t achieve

“I’m very, very proud of the girls,”
she added. “We accomplished so
much. We played 110 percent better

said. “There are things to work on ev-
erywhere — transition from defense
out, transition from offense out.”

gin at 19:55 ofthe first half.
The Generals return to ODAC ac-

  

O

‘I

tion Wednesday with a 4:30 pm. road _

match against Randolph-Macon

 623. came in at 145. Guilford. W&L travels to two national championship.” was to score, woman’sco11ege_
 Cover W&L athletics for the Phi. Contact Jeremy Franklin at irank|inj@wlu.edu or x4060. j
it

 

 

 

1

en’s tennis opens with W&L Fall Classic  

tr

e

MONDAY, DEIYFEMBER A4, .4001

DPORTS

    

MARY CITY The Rir1g—l1m P/27‘
ART OF THE BACKHAND: Senior Rhysjarnes delivers a backhand in a match in this
weekend’s W&L Fall Classic. W&L won one singles ﬂight and one doubles ﬂight
in an event against The College of Newjersey, Davidson and VMI.

BY IAN R. McILRoY
SI>oRrs WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team faired
very well during its Fall Tennis Classic as the Gener-
als took one singles ﬂight and one doubles ﬂight
Saturday and Sunday.

Participating in the tournament were teams from
The College of New Jersey, VMI and Davidson.

“We knew the competition would be tougher
since VMI and Davidson are both Division I
squads,” coach David Detwiler said. “But we didn’t
feel any added pressure. We’ve got everyone back
(from last spring) and added even more depth to
the lineup with a good recruiting class.”

Freshman Marshall Viney took the champion-
ship of the No. 4 singles ﬂight, defeating Rob Gould
of Davidson, 7-5, 6-2 in the ﬁnals.

In the No. 2 singles ﬂight, sophomore K.C.
Schaeffer was the runner-up, dropping the champi-
onship match to Davidson’s Jonathan Britt, 6-2, 6-1.

Freshman Paul McClure was the runner-up in the
No. 3 singles ﬂight, bested by Geoffrey Mullen of
Davidson, 6-2, 6-1, in the ﬁnals.

Also impressive in early round singles play,
sophomore Austin Kim made an amazing come-
back, winning a crucial third set tiebreaker by the
score of 8-6.

In the championship of the No. 2 doubles ﬂight,
McClure and freshman Jeff Lusk took on their team-
mates in sophomore Graham Nix and senior Zac
Vuncarmon. After a heated match, the experienced
combo of Nix and Vuncannon emerged with a 9-8
(2) victory.

Detwiler has high expectations for his crew this year.

“We have the experience of having gone to na-
tionals last year, and we are eager to go back,” he
said. “Our goal as a squad is to ﬁnish the season in
the top eight nationally.”

The Generals, currently ranked 13th, return to
action on Oct. 6-8 in the ITA Southeast Regional -at
Swarthmore College.

PAGE 7

W&L plays at |TA

FRDM STAFF REPORTS

FREDERICKSBURG—'Ihe Washingtonandbee
wornen’s tennis team advanced two singles competi-
torsandonedoublesteamtotheﬁnalsofthelTA
Southeast Regional at Mary Washington on Sunday.

JuniorErika Proko, the No. 1 seed in the touma-
ment, defeated sophomore teammate Elizabeth Law
6-3, 6-1 to reach the semiﬁnals. Proko was sched-
uled to face Anjani Reddy of Swarthmore College
today for the chance to compete in the ﬁnals.

If she reaches the ﬁnals, Proko might see a fa-
miliar face, freshman teammate Lindsay Hagerman.

Hagerrnan guaranteed a spot in the semis by
defeating senior teammate Melissa Hatley 2-6, 6-4,
6-1. She will now face Steffany Slaughter of Mary
Washington to decide the second ﬁnals spot.

Proko and Hatley, who defeated Hagerrnan and
senior Sallie Gray Strang in the semiﬁnals, will also
compete for the doubles championship against the
team of Jody Cogar and Samantha Coldren.

SCOREBOARD

CC - B. Britt 57 punt return (Zilich kick), 7:59
CC - Guthrie 16 pass from Mildren (Zilich kick), 3:57

SATuRDAY’s FOOTBALL YARDLINE

Second Quarter

CC - J. Britt 6 run (Zilich kick), 6:24
CC - Bell 15 run (Zilich kick), 1:40

Emory and Henry at W&L, 4 p.m.
Field Hockey
W&L at RMWC, 4:30 p.m.

Thursday, Sept. 27

W&L SCHEDULES SEPT 25-OCT. 1

Centre 42, W&L 10 Tuesday, Sept. 25 Saturday, Sept. 29
Centre 21 14 7 0 - 42 Volleyball Cross Country
W&L 3 0 0 7 - 10 W&L at Guilford, 6:30 p.m. W&L at Roanoke Invitational
First Quarter Field Hockey

CC - J. Britt 44 run (Zilich kick), 13:53 Wednesday, Sept. 26 Bridgewater at W&L, 11 a.m.
W&L - FG Wiginton 33, 10:50 Men’s Soccer Football

W&L at Randolph-Macon, 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer

Virginia Wesleyan at W&L, 1 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Virginia Wesleyan, 2 pm.

Third Quarter Rugby Volleyball (Emory Tournament)
CC - Guthrie 37 pass from Mildren (Zilich kick), 12:35 W&L at VMI, 4 p.m. W&L vs. Milligan, 4:30 p.m.

Fourth Quarter W&L vs. Emory, 7 p.m.
W&L - Thomas 34 pass from McGarvey (Wiginton kick), 12:12 Friday, Sept. 28

A — 2,200 Volleyball (Emory Tournament) Sunday, Sept. 30
W&L vs. St. Benedict, 2 p.m. Women’s Soccer
CC W&L W&L vs. Greensboro, 4:30 p.m. N.C. Wesleyan at W&L, 2 p.m.
First downs 18 13
Rushes-yards 40-250 32-53 Sept. 29-30 Monday, Oct. 1
Passing yards 197 113 Women’s Tennis Golf
Return yards 106 193 W&L Fall Festival, 8:30/9 a.m. Guilford/Tom O’Byrant Invitational
Comp-att-int 16-26-1 10-31 -1
Sacked-yards lost 1-1 0-0  FOOTBALL GLANCE
Punts-avg 7-42.7 10-42.5
Fumb1eS_|os1 o_0 0_o Conference Overall
l’f.2§'2?i§2;2§.... :32, 2:...  -W 3 aw i
' ‘ Hampden-Sydney 1 0 2 1
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS “'f“"1"91°" 3"‘ '-°° 1 ° 1 2
RUSHING-Centre: J. Britt 15-150, Bell 7-36, Engleman 5-26, B"°'9°‘”a1°’ ° ° 3 °
Mildren 7-22, Coakley 2-11, Beinkampen 2-4, George 1-2. W&L: Em°'y_a"d Henry 0 0 2 2
Sullivan 15-74, Watson 13-21, Dean 1-9, Barnwell 3-(-51). Ca?”°''° 1’ 1 1 2
PASSING-Centre: Mildren 15-23-0 190, Johnson 1-2-1 7, Coakley G“'"°"1 1’ 2 1 3
0-1-0 0. W&L: Dean 5-20-1 52, McGarvey 2-3-0 32, Bamwell 3-6-0 29. Sept. 22 Results week of soon 29
RECElVlNG—Centre: Guthrie 5-109, Gomez 3-32, Woodall 2-9, Centre 42, W&L 10

Bell 2-7, Engleman 1-13, Santos 1-11, Beard 1-9, Smith 1-7. W&L:
Thomas 2-43, Wilson 2-22, Watson 2-18, Rankin 1-16, Callaham 1-9,
DeBard 1-7, Sullivan 1-(-2). .

Bridgewater 50, Johns Hopkins 27
Randolph-Macon 24, Catholic 20
Davidson 23, Emory & Henry 6 ,

W&L at Randolph-Macon
Bridgewater at Hampden-Sydney

11 Catholic atLaSalle

MISSED FIELD GOALS-none. Hampden-Sydney 59, Guilford 7 Guilford at Greensboro

W&L lNVlTATlONAL OLD DOMINION ATHLETIC CONFERENCE STANDINGS

   
 
  

Results l|'OlTl the   BUCK     
lnvItatIonal, held Monday and Tuesday at the
Lexington Go” and country moo; Conference Overall Conference Overall
Team W L T W L T Team w L w L
Team Results W35hl"91°" and 1-994 1 0 4 1 0 Washington and Lee2 0 10 1
1. Averett 287-289-576 LI_/nfxiiburg 3 0 0 5 0 2 Bridgewater 2 0 3 1
2. Christopher Newport 296-288--584 V|F9|"|3 W9S19Y3_" 3 0 0 5 2 0 Roanoke 2 o 7 5
3. Washington and Lee 305-301-606 Eastern Mennomte 3 2 0 7 2 0 Eastern Mennonne 2 o 5 7
4. Drexel 306-305-611 Bridgewater 3 2 0 5 2 0 Ly,,c,,bu,g 1 1 7 3
5_ Roanoke 3o9-314_623 Randolph-Macon 3 2 0 3 5 0 Swee1B1_1ar 1 1 7 11
6. N.C. Wesleyan 306-316-624 Roanoke 2 1 0 5 2 0 1111111118 1 1 2 8
7. Lynchburg 312-315-627 RMWC 1 2 0 3 2 0 Rando1ph_MacO11 1 2 8 6
8. Hampden-Sydney 323-306-629 Hollins 1 4 0 2 4 0 ~~
9. Randolph-Macon 317-314-531 Gui|iord_ 0 2 0 2 3 1 E"1°’Y 3"“ ”°”'Y 1’ 1 6 ‘1
10. College of Wooster 318-314-632 3Wee1B"aT 0 3 0 2 5 0 RMWC 0 2 4 8~
111 Bnogowato.» 340.309.1549 Emery and Henry 0 4 0 2 6 0 Guilford 0 4 2 12
12. Virginia Wesleyan 325-325-650
14. VMl 328-326——654 S000 H00
15_Chowan 329_337__666 Conference Overall Conference Overall
16. Newport News App. 340-344-634 T1?a!“_ 1” L T W L 1 193"‘ W L 1 W '- T
VIrgInIa Wesleyan 4 0 O 6 3 0 Lynchburg 4 0 0 7 0 0
Individual Top 10 Washington and Lee2 0 0 3 1 1 Eastern Mennonite 3 0 0 6 4 0
11 T°niKarjalainen1AVeren  Emory and Henry 2 1 0 4 2 0 ROSHOKE 3 1 0 4 2 O
2_ JanneMommo1AVe1.en 69_72_141 Hampden-Sydney 1 0 0 7 1 1 Bridgewater 1 1 0 3 1 0
I  Ryan Greer‘  72_70__142 Roanoke 1 0 0 6 1 0 Vlfglnla Wesleyan 1 1 0 3 4 0 .11
' 41 Chris Kline,   1 2 0 3 4 0 Sweet Bnar 1 2 0 5 4 0
. 5. Chip Campbell, W&L 74.72.44; Gullford _ 1 2 0 2 5 0 RMWC 0 1 0 2 4 0
6-   221:1 2 2 2 3 2 2  1*: 2 3 2 2 3
7. Nathan MaGee, Drexel 75-72-147 1 °F’ ' 3°01‘ 311,09 ' °
1 Watch the Generals take on the Keydets Thursday at4pm on the VMI Front Lawn e. eostoncraaaocmveren 72-75-147 B"°9°Wa*" ° 3 ° 1 5 1’ “°'''“s ° 3 ° ° 6 °
1 _ _ 9. Jeff Michner,Drexel 71-76-147
‘ A(lm|SS|0ll IS free. 10. W.D. Ferriel, Lynchburg 76-75-151 Edltor’s note: ODAC Standings are updated through games of Sept. 22.
’_ 1
Q ,
0
‘W  O O O r)

It s PHI time!

  

 

PAGE 8

SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER /.4, Alltrgigg

Women’s soccer catches fire as ODAC play heats up

W&L improves to 4-1 in conference
play with a pair of 4-1 wins at home

BY GEOFF WHITE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team im-
proved to a four-game unbeaten streak Saturday by
soundly defeating Randolph-Macon Woman’s College.
Before Saturday’s match, the women beat a previously
undefeated Bridgewater team by" an overwhelming
score of 4-1.

Bridgewater drew first blood in Tuesday’s match only
eight rriinutes into the game. The Generals then opened
up their offense, assaulting the Eagles with four goals
before halftime.

Senior captain Kate Bidwell scored ﬁrst for the Gener-
als. Sophomore Fontaine Marcoux then scored two rapid-
fire goals. The first was off an assist from freshman Rom-
ney Wilson, and the second was unassisted.

Sophomore Meghan Hayde ﬁnished the scoring in the
first half, and the halftime score of 4-1 did not change
throughout the second half. Freshman goalkeeper Emily
Barker made seven saves to ensure the win.

The women returned to action on Saturday against
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College. Barker had an
easier day this time, having to make only two saves for
the Generals.

The opposing goaltender saw a bit more action, stop-
ping 14 W&L shots and letting in four goals. In all, the
Generals unloaded 31 shots against the WildCats.

Bidwell scored ﬁrst, assisted by Marcoux. The sopho-
more eamed another assist, helping classmate Susannah
Hewlett score her first goal of the season.

Piranian nails down 200th career win

Mi//er scores all 4 goals as Generals knock off Lynchburg and Rando/ph-Macon to open conference play

PHOTOS BY MARY GU\’/ The Ring-mm P/1i

OFFENSIVE POWERS: (Above) Sophomore Fontaine Marcoux dribbles the ball upheld in W&L’s 4H win over Randolph—Macon Woman’s College on Saturday.
Marcoux had a goal and two assists against the WildCats. (Right) Senior Kate Bidwell also scored a goal in Saturday’s contest.

Hewlett fired another goal home in the second half off
an assist from senior Drew Powers. A penalty kick for the
WildCats resulted in their only goal of the game.

“I’m disappointed about conceding one late, but it was
the best team performance so far,” head coach Neil

Heam made six saves in net on the

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Sophomore midﬁelder Phil Miller
scored four goals in two games to
help propel the Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team into Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference play and
give coach Rolf Piranian his 200th
career victory.

Piranian, a W&L alum who is in
his 26th year as head coach, holds
a 200-172-20 (.510) career record
and is the winningest coach in
W&L history.

junior goalie Brad Hearn said. “He’s
been here a long time and it’s great to
see him have the success he’s had.”

Miller quickly started his offensive
outburst in Thursday’s 2-1 victory
over Lynchburg. The 2000 ODAC
Rookie of the Year opened the scor-
ing on an unassisted goal at 24:34 of
the first half.

Miller extended the Generals’ lead
to 2-0 when he scored at the 63:29
mark, this time off an assist from fresh-
man defender Brian Pirkle.

Vlfith solid play in goal from Heam,
the two goals by Miller provided all
the offense the Generals would need.

day, despite giving up a late
Lynchburg goal with less than 14 min-
utes to play.

On Saturday afternoon, Miller
picked up where he left off, scoring
another unassisted goal at the 37:00
mark to give the Generals a 1-0 lead
over Randolph-Macon.

The one goal provided plenty of
offense, as junior Tim Foley made nine
saves and earned his first shutout of
the young season. The shutout was
the 12th in his W&L career.

Miller cushioned the lead when he

“We’re very happy for Coach,”

scored his second goal of the game at

Cunningham said.

Marcoux avenged the late goal, scoring one of her own
with 11 minutes left in the contest to provide the ﬁnal
score of 4-1. Freshman Caroline Francht got the assist on
the ﬁnal goal.

Marcoux, who now has seven assists this season, was
named the most recent Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Week.

The Generals (4- l , 4-l ODAC) will play Sweet Briar at
home on Monday at 4:30 p.m.

the 57:48 mark off an assist from
sophomore Bret Grote.

The victories on Thursday and Sat-
urday gave the Generals a quick 2-0
start in ODAC play and a strong
launching pad for the season.

“It’s a great stepping stone,” Hearn
said. “We had a rough start and
played some ugly games.

“Now we’re starting to play well
and I think we get better every time
we step on the field.”

W&L hopes to move their con-
ference record to 3-0 on Wednes-
day when they host Emory and
Henry at 4 p.m.

Would you like your Calyx?

Time’s running out. . .

If you would like to remember any part of

your college years,

And you don’t think you will embarrass your

children,

email Neal Willetts at willettsr@wlu.edu

If memories aren’t important to you,
why bother continuing your existence?

Are you doing your duty?

+

