 
   

...

”l§.7‘7>.>

 
 

 

R 552.
v. t 0 4
ml. 13
'1‘:-r:-',Rt_\<--"-.t:~.¢l-"i»,1 j-,,,_ g,\ I, p ,
INSIDE IN. 3 ‘x

READERS A'i'1:AcK (I3 PAGE 5  l ;;\,\;-3 2

I I>Ejt~x:‘rioNs To lx’tttx\;»'.-\x‘s ' . ..  7
S\'t’EA"i‘.‘~‘l-l('}PSi’ll-211'.l‘tl:Q’Ull{LS O P‘iM’U“ w "3

THIRD <>t>t:w,\Ns t>r\<;i~. &{,i,,.il~’l 2 (5

I AM WOMAN <1) PAGE 6 (Sp, ,:R..1.,§ -.

. \"<‘)1.t.r;\/Er\1.t. r..~\.:  i i  i .3
V ‘ r~'«.">';’a'm ODAC '1. it: :,\7 24'./'  -4
 Yt'~e‘-R~%- Set an -1 at ‘».\.:m 

‘t’r;i,i;r»iE Cl\r’, N6-, Xlll
I, 0 o e
   CRASH
1- .
#-

X

tr
tr
+

1

I‘ #90:»

 

spreads nationwide

0 BY MICHAEL LEE
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s search
for a new president is running at
full steam now that the Presidential
Search and Screening Committee is
underway.

The Committee, formed by the
Board of Trustees, consists of over
20 members coming from all areas of
the University, including faculty, law
and undergraduate students and the
Physical Plant. The Committee is
chaired by Harlan Beckley.

Getting publicity for the search
has been a top priority for Beckley
and the rest of the committee.

“We are sending out letters 
to presidents of major academic in-
stitutions,” Beckley said. The Com-
mittee is actively searching for and
contacting potential candidates.
Bringing national attention to the
Search will help ensure a higher
quality candidate-pool.

Beckley said, “Search is the right
word. Active is the right adjective.”

The Presidential Search Commit-
tee is conducting the search with new
and innovative ideas, Beckley said.
The size of the committee was in-
creased and students were allowed to
participate to increase the diversity
of the committee. The Committee as-
sembled a “Presidential Attributes
and Prospectus” pamphlet with a gen-

 

    

eral description of the ideal candidate.
The concept of the prospectus was
derived from what Lad Sessions, act-
ing dean of the college, called a “very
complicated dance.”

The prospectus is divided into
three sections. The first discusses
presidential attributes that are gen-
eral and broad: “The president 
will be  a distinguished, well-
rounded intellectual, dedicated to
the life of the mind.” The second
section briefly talks about the
structure of the University and the
third section addresses the chal-
lenges and opportunities the next
president will face.

Essentially, the prospectus asks,
“ ‘Where can the new president make
a difference?’ ” Sessions said. “(The

ILF. PEoTo/Kin-rm
committee is) looking for as close a
candidate as what is contained in that
prose.”

The names of prospective candi-
dates for the position are held in strict
conﬁdence. Beckley would not reveal
too many details as to possible can-
didates. He said that possible candi-
dates include current and retired
deans of other colleges and people
who are employed in a field outside
of education.

When asked if a member of the
Washington and Lee community could
be selected by the committee, Beckley
responded, “It is a nationwide search
and W&L is part of nationwide.”

For more information, go to the
Presidential Search website at http://
www.wlu.edu/presidentialsearch.

 

SIDE-SWIPED. A Sweetbriar student driving this Ford Taurus failed to stop at a red light at the intersection of Nelson and
Jefferson Streetsjuniorjeremy Kirkland swerved his Dodge Durango to avoid hitting her, and drove off the road into
a traffic signal. Seniors Mandy Cannon and Veronica Griffith were also in Kirkland’s vehicle. Rescue workers shut down
traffic for over an hour while breaking open Kirkland’s passenger door. Griffith and Cannon were treated for minor
injuries at Stonewalljackson Hospital and released. The Sweetbriar student has no insurance.

£335
1 In, FFRR.\R\, lHl;Rr,\r,-it \rPHr

 

University, local postal SC1‘Vice discount anthrax threat

Despite national concerns over anthrax-contaminated ma

       

, an _ infectious" -disease
w apon-‘dispersed

if 'Treatrnentts iusuakiy  effect, e aftej"symptonns_are pre.sent,l,thoug'hvpost-
 symptomatic antibiotic, eatm nt can iowerthe death rate from 99% to about

“ 80%.-3  ».

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

Despite extensive media coverage of anthrax attacks
and threats of terrorism, Lexington appears to be a haven
of relative peace and calm.

While the statistical evidence shows anthrax poses
little threat to anybody—the chance of winning the Lotto

    

FOGRAPHICBX Tm\n=.McDFR~torr/THERL\'c-7tTtrPrn
is higher than dying from anthrax—each unexplainable
case causes more fear nationwide. The House of Rep-
resentatives shut down for a day and the Supreme Court
moved to a new location to cut the risk of anthrax infec-
tion.

Yet the most vulnerable place in Lexington to anthrax
exposure, the old post office on Lee Ave., is showing cour-
age and calm composure.

il, W&L and Lexington mail sen/ices continue business as usual

“Even though we are offering face masks and
rubber gloves to employees, no one is using the
masks, and few are using the gloves,” said Post-
master Larry Creamer.

Similar protection measures are being taken by
Campus Mail
Services. Cam-

M’ .1 ___L_m.“L.E“.
Evlhsrker Paitil RlNG'TUM PHI
Thomas said,

like the town’s NEWS ANALYSIS

postal workers,
the campus em-
ployees have
not chosen to use masks or gloves.

“Nobody is really concerned or frightened,” he
said.

Thomas also points out that the risk of get-
ting anthrax is low. In order to be infected by the
fatal airborne version, one must inhale approxi-
mately 8,000 spores. Bacteria must enter through
open wounds to cause the less dangerous skin
disease.

Indeed, one might wonder why the nation is in
such a panic. According to the U.S. Postal Service
website, about 30 billion pieces of mail have been
delivered since Sept. 1 1, yet only three pieces have
been confirmed as contaminated with anthrax. This
contrasts with media coverage, which has been fre-
quent and sensational.

Americans do not seem concerned, either. According
to a recent Gallup poll, nine out of 10 Americans are going
about their business as usual.

Washington and Lee students certainly are. Fresh-
men Laura Farrell said she is not worried.

“What are they (the terrorists) going to do—put an-
thrax in the Wal-Mart ads? I’m not scared.”

W&L Security Director Mike Young has sent
numerous messages to the university community
with instructions on how to handle suspicious
mail.

In a message sent Oct. 31, Young said W&L has drafted
a safety plan in case of a biochemical emergency. Young
cautioned students, faculty and staff to be on alert for
suspicious packages, and report them to University Secu-
rity immediately.

“While it is felt that the risk of a biochemical threat to
our community is minimal, all faculty, staff and students
should remain alert to that possibility,” Young wrote in his
email.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
said postal patrons should handle suspicious mail in
a prudent manner.

“Suspicious” mail includes packages with
no return address, handwritten or poorly typed
addresses, no named addressee, excessive post-
age, and mail marked with any threatening lan-
guage.

The Center advises immediately covering the mail
and contacting the authorities.

 

W&L journalism ‘quests’ for global media ethics

National Public Radio CEO Kevin Klose kicks off conference with public address in Lee Chapel on Friday; Conference an attempt to establish universal ethical standards

BY LATRINA STOKES
AssT. NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Depart-
ment of Journalism cosponsored a
conference in an attempt to begin de-
veloping a set of common ethical
standards for all journalists this
weekend.

The conference, entitled “Global
Media: The Quest for Universal Ethical
Standards,” is the second in a decade-
long series conducted by U.S. colleges
and universities. ,

As citizens of an increasingly
broader world community, we can no
longer afford to make decisions
without considering their global im-
pact on politics, economics and cul-
ture. The mass media’s role in inﬂu-
encing those decisions is increas-
ing as well.

“The world is economically glo-

bal, politically national and journal-
istically provincial,” said Louis
Hodges, Knight professor of jour-
nalism.

“We’ve got to do something
about that.”

International scholars gath-
ered here to do just that for two
days.

Kevin Klose, president and chief
executive officer of National Public
Radio, kicked off the conference last
Friday with a keynote address in Lee
Chapel.

Broadcasting is integrally tied
to President Thomas Jefferson’s
idea that one cannot be ignorant
and free, Klose said. Citizen’s self
government and self empowerment
go hand in hand with open broad-
cast forums.

When mass genocides were con-
ducted in Europe and Africa, the me-

dia were controlled to create a single
voice of xenophobia, fear and separa-
tion, he said.

This was only one example of

broadcasting’s power to influence.
This is why the U.S. government is
presently broadcasting in the Middle
East, Klose said.

The U.S. is in a unique situation
in which the state does not signifi-
cantly support public radio, he added.
Nor is public radio beholden to com-
mercial interests; the listening public
pays.

Despite the American media’s in-
dependence, all joumalists have com-
mon problems in reporting, editing
and investigating.

Klose calls attention to the fact
that the recent terrorist attacks prob-
ably had roots in decisons that the
American government made decades
ago.

“We look back at what hap-
pened tocarry ourlselves foward,”
he said.

Klose said the media have a
respoiisiblity to report the news as
well as make historical
connnections, mportant to not only
Americans, but the restof the world
as well.

“We’ve all come from some-
where else, by force or freedom, even
Native Americans. We are all immi-
grants to this country. We have iden-
tities beyond our border,” Klose said
in closing.

“We are nothing or more or less,
as great as a nation of immigrants with
the capacity, to learn, expand and
grow.”

Scholars presented papers
and discussed these problems in
small sessions throughout the
weekend.

Despite minor setbacks, the con-
ference made progress overall, said
journalism professor Brian
Richardson.

The conference was not nearly as
international in scope as the depart-
ment had hoped it would be: Fear of
travel into the U.S and ﬁnancial prob-
lems prevented several international
guests from attending, Richardson
said.

Also, the colloquia scheduled
before the conference were can-
celed.

The global ethics conference
reflects the Washington and Lee
University’s broadening perspec-
tive, which has recently expanded
with the global stewardship pro-
gram.

“You can’t look at the world
with tunnel vision,” said
Richardson.

K101: Cotmtm-ni=,\rR.rt>.\t

  

Jain!-?&T»‘ (7. T.  H by ,
W‘;-R“ am‘ :3  ;-‘i“~?t'v':&?i5—,Ll I V -
2 :'_-‘,=;N¢_}’.';"C.‘i'«s, V). 

PAGE 2€v‘f.lV 3 i 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001

Dispatches from security:

Mike Young reports on terrorism

fr)ll?T1~)TCtl).\‘
OUR MAN ox THF. r;RoUxD. Mike Young oversees many aspects

of Washington and Lee’s security plan.

If you encounter mail that may have a light
coating of a powdery substance or is otherwise
suspicious:

1) Do not open it

2) Call University Security (X8999)

3) Wash hands with soap and water

4) List all persons who have touched the letter/
package with contact information.

Corrrcnos

The last issue incorrectly
switched Ray Waity and Stan

Jackson’s picture identifications news.

LEXINGTON
COE_]j'EE-

-‘L'ri"¢.r.'r~+'!eIr;9r- £55-hm-r .I'«'u‘r._',-'

on the Opinions page.
It is the policy of the Ring-
tum Phi to accurately report the

Security director announces safety
plan for biochemical emergency

This message is to let you know that the University
has formulated a safety plan for implementation in the
case of biochemical emergency. W&L Safety and Security
personnel met recently with members of the Virginia Health
Department, Stonewall Jackson Hospital, Rockbridge
County Emergency Services, and local law enforcement
agencies to plan for any event involving hazardous mate-
rial threats to public safety.

While it is felt that the risk of a biochemical threat to
our community is minimal, all faculty, staff and students
should remain alert to that possibility. Continue to check
your mail and packages for any unusual or suspicious
items. Should you discover an item that appears to be
suspicious, please notify University Security at X8999 im-
mediately. The Security Department will respond and take
the appropriate action. Do not handle or open the suspi-
cious item. Thank you for your cooperation in these in-
creasingly difficult times.

What makes mail ‘suspicious’?

Common sense and a heightened awareness will guide
you in deciding that a package is suspicious. Items that
can make a letter or package suspicious include:

1) Restrictive markings (“Personal”)

2) Postmark city different from return address
3) Fictitious, unfamiliar or no return address
4) Excessive postage

5) Address to title only (i.e., Vice President)
6) Wrong title with name

7) Badly typed or written addresses

8) Misspelled words

9) Rigid or bulky

10) Protruding wires

1 1) Strange odor

12) Oily stains on wrapping or lopsided package

Thank you.
Mike Young, director of security
Flash Floyd, Manager of Universitys Services

We encourage our readers to
report any fact errors to phi
@wlu.edu

 ' ESPRESSO ' CAPPUCCIND * BAGEL3 * MUFFINS + CR.OISSA.N'T5
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET‘ LEEEINGTON - &64-6586

RIGEFIELD

 

W&L awarded national safety grant to
reduce abusive drinking

Washington and Lee University is one of ﬁve col-
leges nationally awarded a grant from the National High-
way Traffic Safety Administration and the North-Ameri-
can Interfratemity Conference to help schools across the
country find ways to reduce high risk drinking among
students in Greek organizations.

W&L was selected to participate in the program over
20 colleges, based on the strength of its application, the
institution’s support for sororities and fraternities and the
University’s ongoing efforts to shift the focus of Greek
organizations from social events to broader fraternal pur-
poses.

PBS stations airing new Robert E. Lee

, documentary by W&L alumnus

Public Broadcasting System stations across the coun-
try began airing Nov. l the new documentary Lee: Beyond
the Battles produced by Washington and Lee University
alumnus W. Drew Perkins and his Rubicon Productions.

The program takes a personal, in-depth look at Rob-
ert E. Lee in his roles as son, husband, father, soldier,
post—Civil War peacemaker and president at the Lexing-
ton, Va. college that now bears his name.

Several Washington and Lee faculty members pro-
vided key assistance to Rubicon Productions, including
Ted DeLaney., associate professor of history, Holt Mer-
chant, professor of history, and Robert J. de Maria, pro-
fessor of journalism.

Individual PBS stations will determine the broad- _

cast dates and times of Lee: Beyond the Battles. Perkins
recommends viewers check their local station’s sched-
ules.

—courtesy wlu.edu

Women’s Forum hooks up

Elizabeth Marquardt, affiliate scholar at the Institute

for American Values and co-author of a ground-breaking
study on college women’s attitudes about sex and dating
on campus, will lead a talk titled “Hooking Up, Hanging
Out, and Hoping for Mr. Right: College Women on Dating
and Mating Today.”

Marquardt will discuss the results of her study, which
asks how college women feel about hooking up and how
it relates to their goals for the future when it comes to long
term commitment or marriage.

The talk will be held on Wednesday, Nov. 7 at 7:30
PM. in Lee Chapel.

Harb’s Bistro closed

Harb’s Bistro on Washington Street closed Nov. 1
and will reopen under new management at an undisclosed
date.

--counesy Lexington News-Gazette

'Ibday~

Nov. 5 — 30—Study Abroad Photo
Exhibit. Leybum Library Main Lobby.
Winners to be announced Nov. 15.

7:30 p.m.—Lecture. “Poverty in
Contemporary Poland: A Legacy of Communism or a By-
Product of Transition?” Dr. Elzbieta Tarkowska, visiting
scholar from Yale University. Northen Auditorium.

8 p.m.—Theatre Series. “The Colored Museum” by
George C. Wolfe. Directed by Marshall McAdden.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

8:30 p.m.——Java at the GHQ. Guy Smiley Blues Exchange.

'I\1esday, Nov. 6 ’

Election Day.

8 p.rrt———Theatre Series. “Spinning Into Butter” by Rebeoca
Gilman DirectedbyTomZiegler.JolmsonTheatre,Ler1festCenter.

Wednesday, Nov. 7

7:30 p.m.—Women’s Forum Lecture. “Hooking up, Hang-
ing Out, and Hoping for Mr. Right: College Women on Dat-
ing and Mating Today,” Elizabeth Marquardt. Lee Chapel.

7:30 p.m.—Student Panel Discussion to address Latin
American culture. Panelists have been asked to answer ques-
tions in Spanish. Northen Auditorium, Leybum Library.

8 p.m.—Theatre Series. “The Colored Museum” by
George C. Wolfe. Directed by Marshall McAdden.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

8 p.m.—AA meeting. Fairfax Lounge.

Thursday, Nov. 8

8p.m—UniversityJanFJisemble Kella”Iheatre,LenfestCenter.

8 p.m——Theatre Series. “Spinning Into Butter” by Rebecca
Gilman Directedby Tom Ziegler. Johnson 'Iheatre, LenfestCenter.

 

CRIME REPORT

Oct. 22 - Nov. 2 Friday, Oct. 26
Citations: Stolen laptop. Laptop re-
2 Speeding ported missing from Leybum
2Drunk in Public Library. study carrel. Sus-

3 Minor in Possessiqiected to have been taken be-

tween 11 A.M. and 4 P.M.

Sunday, Oct. 28
Stolen laptop. Laptop re-
ported missing from Leybum Li-

brary study room. Last seen Fri-
Information compiled from

University Security and
the Lexington Police Dept.

 

9

 

4)

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001



Want your country to work
out? Exercise your franchise

We at Washington and Lee like to brag
about our superhuman feats of procastination.

“I didn’t start studying for that test until
the night before it was due.”

“I didn’t start compiling the data base un-
til the last week of the term.”

“I didn’t start writing the staff editorial until
two o’clock in Monday morning.”

The chorus of examples makes it easy to
believe that there’s a good excuse for apathy.
We can pretend that it’s for efficency’s sake:
we want to ﬁt the work in the minimum amount
of time necessary for its completion. Right.

The real reason, however, is that imme-
diate gratification distracts us: we sacrifice
long-term goals for short—term pleasures. The
economics examination takes a back seat to
Mario Kart and Killian’s Irish Red.

An often excused—away responsibility is
voting. After all, your parents get your grades,
not your voting participation records.

Agreed, voting can sometimes be tiresome
and even a little ugly: just look at the past fresh-
man E.C. election. A blizzard of trite or incom-
prehensible signs descended around the fresh-
men dormitories like a blizzard of filthy snow.
Who can forget: “Vote so—and-so because he
likes salmon,” “Remember the mullet,” and
“So-and-so is like really the best, really !”

The antics of our youngest class shouldn’t
obscure the significance of the vote, however.
It’s easy to wax melodramatic. Elections are
the foundation of democracy and the sacra-
ment of our civic religion. It is what sets the
United States above and apart from the count-
less dictatorships, juntas, single-party rule, mon-
archies and tyrannies that pockmark the globe.

What voting often means, however, is that
you can try to get the person you prefer elected.
Or, alternately, prevent the election of the per-
son you most dislike.

Last century, on average 62,000 Ameri-
can soldiers died each year in declared wars.
They sacriﬁced theirs to preserve our way of
life, to protect your right to vote.

Tomorrow, vote for governor if you’re eli-
gible. If you have been thus far negligent, reg-
ister as soon as you can. The W&L registrar
has some helpful information, and a great deal
of other helpful material has been published.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

YOU JUST LIKE THE THOUGHT
OF MY BOOZY BREATH ALL
OVER YOUR BODY.

— ANONYMOUS PHI AssOcIATE EDITOR TO MAN

T HE PHI

Ed i t0r-irl-chief Matthew B. McDermott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T, Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLat;imer
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave C1-owel] -
Layout Editor KatieH0we]l
Photo Editor MaryGuy
Photographers MegFe1-1-ara
J eb Brooks
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager Rober-tF]oyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.erlu

TEE Rl.§£(}~’l"I.??tI PEI

PINIONS

Conservatism wins war of ideas  

Perhaps the most interesting
statement that President Walesa made
last Tuesday was in response to the
question concerning the immense elec-
toral gains ex—communists have made
in many former Warsaw Pact countries.
In fact, the last election in Poland was
so decisive that Solidarity disbanded
its politcal party and will now function
only as a labor union.

Surprisingly, Walesa expressed
no dismay or anger at the election re-
sults. Conversely, he seemed per-
fectly happy. Why? How could he
possibly be at ease with the return to
power of those whom he deposed?

Aside from the joke he made
about Polish Communists being like
radishes—— only red on the outside——
Walesa stated that the ex—communists
had in fact adopted the platform of
Solidarity and won by promising to
do it only better, not differently.

In his speech, Walesa communi-
cated a sense of predestination. He
seemed to believe that world events,
speciﬁcally the fall of Communism, are
bound to happen and will come about
as a matter of course. He seemed to
almost have been saying, “Of course
the communists have adopted our
ideals. Solidarity was bound to be to-
tally victorious.”

Walesa knows that the free—mar—
ket, private property, respect for hu-
man rights and freedom are better
ideas than collectivization,
authoritarianism, the violation of hu-
man rights and blatant disregard for
human life. He was
convinced that his 3
ideas would win and 3
believed that they "
overcame, not neces-
sarily because of his involvement, but
simply because they are better ideas
and were meant to win. Perhaps his
faith led him to believe that God
wouldn’t allow such evil to prevail.

Whatever the reason, be it Provi-
dence or merely societal evolution, this
adoption by communists of free-mar-
ket and democratic ideals is an example
of the ultimate victory of conservative
and classicly liberal ideals.

Current politics abound with
other examples of the victory of con-

 
 

 

Letters to the Editor

Halloween costume was insensitive

Dear Editor,

j RIGHT OF THE AISLE


BREITT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

EMAIL I<IRwANE@\xtrIEDU

VICTORY! President Walesa confirmed in his speech to the W&L community that
conservative ideals were victorious in Poland.

servatism. For example, the abortion
debate has moved far to the right since
the Roe v. Wade decision. In the l970’s,
partial-birth abortion. the barbaric prac-
tice of vacuuming out the brains of a
partially delivered baby, was common-
place and not debated. Now, Congress
frequently brings up bills calling for
its abolition, many
states have already
done so and most of
the country supports
ending this practice.
Additionally, one Supreme Court
appointment could bring about the
reversal of Roe v. Wade, which was
totally unthinkable just ﬁve years ago.
Welfare policy too has shifted to
the right. Since the Great Society days
of Lyndon Johnson to the Welfare
Reform Act of 1996, the number of citi-
zens living on the dole has peaked
and drastically fallen in response to
the reforms enacted pursuant to the
Act. The deabte used to be over how
large the payments to unwed moth-

ers should be and how many housing
projects the government should build.
Now, legislators and bureaucrats work
to reduce the welfare rolls and dis-
cuss time limits for eligibility.

Most recently, tax policy has also
shifted to the right. Democrats wish
that they could still fight tooth and
nail any decrease in the govemment’s
conﬁscatory tax rate, but the argument
now concerns only the size of the tax
cut or rebate, not its existence. Presi-
dent Bush has turned the nation away
from the highest—ever peacetime tax
rates of the Clinton years and now
Americans know that they deserve a
tax cut and demand one from their
Congressmen.

Marx wrote about the end of his-
tory. He envisioned a Communist para-
dise in which the proletariat would live
in peace under a perfect political sys-
tem. He was right about the end of his-
tory, but wrong about its manifesta-
tion. Conservatism, not communsim,
will be the ultimate victor.

Ir ONLY THEY KNEW: These anti—globilization
protestors’ marches and chants are in vain because
global development and other conservative ideals
will be the ultimate victors in the battle between
ideologies.

COLRIFSY OF .4B(I\I:li3IllG().(D.ll

calm down, my friend asked me, “So is he supposed to

look like me ?” My response was comical, simply because
I could not fathom why this was the costume of choice.

I>HOrIo lll,l'SI‘M1IOl\' MARY GLW/ The Ring—t1m1Phi

Despite all the efforts our country has made in the
last century to create a more tolerant society, despite all
the challenges that this nation has overcome, despite the
recent unifying surge of patriotism spawned by the terror-
ists attacks, some individuals on our campus continue to
be egregiously insensitive by offending and alienating
those unlike themselves.

The most recent incident to which I refer occurred on
Halloween night. A group of costumed students walked
into the Co-op. One of them was wearing blackface.

I thought that I was seeing wrong. I must have been
grossly mistaken. But, indeed, there he was with black-
ened skin and ﬂaming-red lips.

There were no words to describe what I felt at that
moment, nor could the incredulous look on my face really
convey my feelings.

I had to turn to a friend and ask what year we were
living in 1901 , surely not 2001. From where had this Sambo
ﬁgure come?

After several others began to stare, he offered an
excuse: “I’m the Famous Jet Jackson,” an African Ameri-
can character from a Disney television series.

The disbelief quickly escalated to rage. As we tried to

Had he really thought so little of my race that he would
blatantly, brazenly display his contempt and disrespect?

I considered that in the spirit of Halloween, this paint
was part an innocent costume. Then I thought that he
must not realize what kind of stigma is attached to that
makeup. Angrily, I dismissed both these possibilities. His
response showed that he was very much aware of the
social implications of what he had done.

So I asked myself why anyone would leave his house
or dorm room with the knowledge that he could deeply
offend an entire group of people on campus, not limited to
those with black skin. No matter his intention, to go out in
public wearing blackface was a slap in the face for anyone
who would wish every member of this community to be
comfortable, if not accepted, on this campus.

Though yearly editorials bespeak the evils of diver-
sity and tolerance, I cannot help but think that this cam-
pus needs these things all the more after this occurrence.

Sincerely,
Latrina Stokes ‘02

See LETTERS, Page 5

PAGE 3

‘Net restrictions:
It could be worse

Students come to college with certain expectations.
Here we anticipate access to a world—class curriculum,
top—notch professors, an exquisitely beautiful campus,
and reasonable food in the dining hall.

Within the last few years, something else has
been added to that list: lightning-quick Internet ac-
cess. We want our web pages, songs, movies, and
programs, and we want them now.

The reason for the surge in ‘Net use is hardly
surprising. By now, even novice users know that when
they want a file, they have KaZaA, Morpheus,
BearShare, LimeWire, and Audiogalaxy all at their dis-
posal. Merely type in the title of a popular movie or
song and, within a
matter of seconds,
you have a list of
files and begin
downloading.
Since just about anyone with minimal computer knowl-
edge can use these services, just about everyone does.

Yet while the Internet may seem free to users in
the dormitories, the people behind the scenes know
a much harsher reality: our networks choked with
traffic and there’s no relief in sight. Director of Uni-
versity Computing John Stuckey raised a consider-
able amount of student ire on Thursday with the
decision to monitor and limit file sharing. However,
in comparison to what restrictions could have been
implemented, Washington and Lee’s network poli-
cies are far more student—friendly than they seem.

The scenario is not unique to Lexington. Other col-
leges have noted that, unlike in previous years, freshmen
arrived in their dormitories ready to hitch a ride on the peer-
to-peer ﬁle sharing revolution. Systems that ran at 70—to-80
percent capacity last year pegged at 100 percent within the
first day of school and haven’t come down since.

In one example, the University of Tennessee at
Knoxville reported that KaZaA transfers accounted for
half of all its residential download trafﬁc and three-
quarters of all uploads. The University of Denver, even
after it doubled its total bandwidth over the summer,
still could not satisfy the incredible student desire for
songs and movies. Even the venerable Stanford Uni-
versity found itself at a loss when demand for band-
width far outstripped supply.

The results: slower delivery of e-mail, web pages
that just refuse to load, students who can’t do research,
and professors who can’t access lecture material. And
with a slew of more high—bandwidth users on the verge
of being added upon the completion of the wireless
project out at Davidson Park, the situations bound to
grow worse by the end of the year.

In light of these trends, the university had good
reason to announce on Thursday its decision to curtail
peer-to-peer ﬁle sharing. They decided upon a “packet
shaping” solution, which involves a piece of software
or hardware that can prioritize academic data over en-
tertainment. In other words, web pages and e-mail func-
tions will perform far quicker while MP3s, movies, and
other non-school—related ﬁles will download slower.

While the days of laissez-faire Internet access may
be behind us. we at Washington and Lee are far better
off than many other schools around the nation.

For instance, Loyola College of Baltimore went so far
as to ban all peer-to-peer applications with an electronic
firewall. The University of Delaware allots each student
one gigabyte of activity per day; once the cutoff point is
reached, no more access, academic or otherwise.

Other schools made the move to outlaw peer-to-
peer sharing and then prosecute individual cases be-
fore their student judicial councilsl Just think if down-
loading and distributing copyrighted material were a
violation of the Honor System and violators were
brought before the EC; we would possibly have to part
with over half of our population.

Some institutions went even farther. The Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania’s final solution was to take the
“free” out of “free Internet access” by charging $180
per year to defray the enormous costs of bandwidth.
It’s safe to say that the entire college would react vio-
lently if we had to go that route some day.

While I haven’t heard of any college going this
far, I would not be surprised if we hear about ac-
cess being charged by the hour (like long distance
telephone calls) or amount of data transferred.

With costs of maintaining a second T3 line al-
ready topping $5,000 per month, that “telecommu-
nications surcharge” option must have looked
tempting to the administration. Thankfully, they
chose a much more palatable method of reigning in
recreational Internet use.

So rest easy; there will be no Spanish Inquisition,
no ﬁrewalls and no sweeping bans. Our entertainment
files may get to us a bit slower, but considering the
alternatives University computing could have taken,
that hardly seems like an inconvenience at all.

COGENT COMMENTARY
AND_I_tE\>r LATIMER ‘O5

 

     

“It’s a big difference
from the no .”
--Steve Thome, JMU ‘02

  

“Itwasoneoftliethirigstliat
persuadedmetooomehere.”

--Kathy Wang, ‘05

l

 

“They say it’s there, butl
really don’t think so.”
-—Akwugo Onuekwusi, ‘05

“Most of the time, they

try to avoid us.”
-—Bob Downey, VMI ‘O4

 

“Itcreatesamoreﬁiendly
environmentforstlidents.”
—-Joseph Harouni, ‘O5

 

    

PAGE 4

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2001



Extended, updated course catalogue for Winter Term unveiled

Traditional Washington and Lee education becomes even more wel/-rounded with such diverse offerings as Sarcasm 101, Self Reliance 100

With all we complain about here, there’s no denying
the fact that indeed, Washington and Lee does provide a
stellar education. The structure of the majors and their
respective requirements are key to building a strong foun—
dation on which to pursue a career.

However, there are some classes that, given the in-
terests and attitudes of the student body, should be of-
fered here. Of course, knowing how to fill out a balance
sheet will be unduly useful in the later rounds. But what
about the other things that obstruct the typical student’s
way to total enlightenment?

I’ve thus constructed a list of the Top 10 Classes
W&L should offer, in order to fully and completely
educate its students.

Pick-Up Lines 230: An Intermediate Level Course
on The Art of the Pick—Up. I swear to God, someone
once asked my friend if she had “ever seen a black
light before.” I think most people have the general
idea, that the ultimate goal is to get ass, so this

course should be just a module in fine—tuning these
skills. Other pick-up lines that will done away with
in this course include, “Have the seen the molding
in my room?” “Here,just leave your coat in my room
so it won’t get lost; you can get it later,” and “I’ll
walk you back home, Lexington is
pretty shady this time of year.”  

SelfReliance 100: An Introduction 
to Doing Things By and For Yourself. 
This one’s pretty self-explanatory. I
won’t go into the holier—than-thou details of this one,
but, at the risk of waxing cliché, solitude, in modera-
tion, indeed can be a virtue.

College Appreciation 380: A Seminar on Relishing
Your Charmed Existence. This is an advanced course for
those who realize that W&L isn’t really as bad as our
campus newspapers make it sound.

Self-Deprecation 210: A Course on Laughing at Your-
self. Some people just take themselves way too seriously.

 

7 “ KRIS POLLINA ‘()3

This is course is designed for those who either a.) have
not yet come to the conclusion that they are not as bad-
ass as they once thought, or b.) people who have not

learned the fine art of taking things in stride.
Wal-Mart in Moderation: Keeping trips and expenses
in check. This course focuses intently on

A; NOR ’S EXPOSURE how to keep trips to a minimum, in addi-

tion to studying the addiction patterns of
students unable to keep their checks be-
low $50 each time. In addition to this, the
course will include a small section on minimizing trips to
Subway and Wendy’s.

GroupWise & Snood: How Much is Too Much. This
course outlines the rise and fall students addicted to per-
petual e—mail checks, or even worse, the psychoactive
drug of Snood.com. This class culminates in a senior the-
sis of erasing Snood from the computer’s memory.

Milking the C-School: How To Succeed in Business
Without Really Trying. Requirement for the Major. This

course deals with the art of not pulling out hairs about
internships and the like, but rathers, encourages students
to perfect the art of BS.

AA. Gen Ed.

Mnemonic Skills 10]: Forced Recollection of Feigned
Forgetfulness. This class teaches its students to abandon
the myth of blacking out, and urges them to admit to their
actions, however large a monument to idiocy they may be.

Sarcasm 101: An Introduction to Understanding Dry
Humor. A lot of people here fail to demonstrate an ability
to differentiate between seriousness and satire. This class
could introduce the aforementioned folks to the highly
revered skill of sarcasm.

Combining both legitimate courses with said sugges-
tions could allow W&L’s already brilliant populace to reap
the benefits of a comprehensive education. Although it
would require some changes to the Course Catalogue,
each class could very well merit its own department. The
only problem would be ﬁnding professors.

 

GP ‘ro-Family’ right shd

Couursv or AP

UNITER, NOT A DIVIDER: Bush has made great strides with his AIDS policy and political appointments.

Many social conservatives
within the Republican Party cannot
believe what they see. It has slowly
become more and more apparent
that the many members of the GOP,
including President Bush, are openly
accepting the gay and lesbian popu-
lation as a viable political ally. With
this trend the tired “pro-family” fac-
tion of the Republican Party feels
betrayed by their own leaders. For-
give me ifl take a little pleasure in
this.

In lieu of the discourse I began
with the issue of homosexuality within
the Virginia gubernatorial race a few
weeks ago, I was very happy to see an
article by David Crary in the Washing-
ton Post this week entitled, “Bush Ad-
ministration Broadens Gay Overtures.”

A delightful shock from our Re-
publican President, who received so
much support from the conservative
right during his campaign, has been
certain appointments his administra-
tion has made.

acknowledge

Since taking office, Bush has
appointed openly gay men to the
both the head of the Office of Na-
tional AIDS Policy and as Ambas-
sador to Romania, the highest ap-
pointments for open gays in a Re-
publican Administration ever.

What’s more, some conserva-
tives were particularly angry that
the partner of the Romanian Ambas-
sador Michael Guest was acknowl-
edged by Secretary of State Colin
Powell during his swearing-in cer-
emony last month.

New Director of AIDS Policy
Scott Evertz is aware of the con-
servative ire following his appoint-
ment as well, but is very pleased
with Bush at this point.

“The average American isn’t
at a point where they can endorse
gay marriage or domestic partner-
ships — the President isn’t endors-
ing those concepts at this point.
But does he believe gays and les-
bians ought to be treated with dig-
nity and respect? Yes,” Evertz said
in a statement to the Post.

Moreover, GOP action in the
gay movement has not been cen-
tralized to the District alone. Sen.
Gordon Smith of Oregon spoke Oct.

how Bush has backed social conscience

6 at the annual dinner of the Hu-
man Rights Campaign, a major gay-
rights advocacy group.

Gays also cheered the announce-
ment by Republican New York Gover-
nor George Pataki when he stated that
partners of gays killed
in the World Trade
Center attack in Sep-
tember would qualify
for state aid.

Many social groups are encour-
aged by these movements, and wish
the President would continue to
reach out to the gay and lesbian
community.

“Step by step, the administration
can signal to voters that they are fair-
minded. They are on the right path to
getting there,” said Winnie
Stachelberg, the Human Rights
Campaign’s political director.

While the Bush administration
does still have a way to go on social
policy for gays and lesbians, it is very
encouraging to see them taking a de-
parture from the out—dated, close-
minded views of the pro-family con-
servative right. These organizations,
despite the obvious evidence within
social trends around them, refuse to
acknowledge that American has

LEFT OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘()3

moved ‘past the heterogeneous,
nuclear family ﬁlled population of the
1950’s.

People like Kenneth Connor,
president of the Family Research
Council, a right—wing social organiza-
tion, have complained
of Bush’s “implicit
endorsement of the
homosexual political
agenda.”

Also, the Christian organiza-
tion Focus on the Family said the
aforementioned recent political ap-
pointments in Washington have
created “confusion and frustration
for millions of pro-family, social
conservatives.”

However, in a party divided
against itself, there are those working
to boost gay participation in Republi-
can politics. Charles Francis, a gay
public relations executive and long-
time friend of Bush, founded the Re-
publican Unity Coalition in January.

Francis said of his friend, “From
Day One, George Bush said he’s a
uniter, not a divider — it’s turned out
to be more than true. For the Family
Research Council and others to attack
him for being a uniter is to completely
miss the point of his Presidency.”

Francis’ coalition says it seeks
only to make sexual orientation a
“non-issue” in the GOP, not any spe-
cial privileges for gays.

Dale Carpenter, a University
of Minnesota Law Professor and
scholar of gay politics best char-
acterized the situation. “The new
reality is that George Bush is do-
ing about as much as he can,
given the political restraints in the
party to equalize things for gay
Americans.”

Carpenter went on to say, “Now
there are gay—positive things coming
from their own leader, and it’s just
harder to oppose. It’s like Nixon go-
ing to China, or a southerner signing
the Civil Rights Act of 1964.”

Thus, social conservatives are in
a bind. Now is the time to buck—up
and learn that the American social
conscience is evolving, like it or not.
I, for one, am happy to see these
changes. Current trends in Washing-
ton and the failure of Mark Earley’s
socially-backwards campaign here in
Virginia are evidence of this social
change. Slowly, America is making
more and more steps towards the uni-
versal equality that should already be
a reality.

I-I-is B3cl<...0v~ly 3+ Council Tiravel

AMAZING SALE

S+udev~+ / You-I-in  Teacher
5 Days Only! Nov. 6-10! 20 European Cities Available.

NYC to LONDON

CHI to DUBLIN

$133

$95

LAX to PARIS

$168

'FARES ARE ONE WAY, ROUND TRIP FARES ALSO AVAILABLE.

Tickets are subject to availability and must be paid in full at time of booking. Tickets are
non-refundable. Taxes and fees are extra. Additional restrictions and blackout dates
apply. ISIC, ITIC and IYTC card required. Valid for departure through March 2002.

1 -800-ZCOUNCIL

www.counciItrave|.com

Call 24 hrs: (EST) 8am Tues. Nov. 6 - 12am Fri. Nov. 9 & 10am - 7pm Sat. Nov 10.

Fraternities * Sororities *
Clubs * Studente Groups

Earn $1000-$2000 this semester with the
easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour
fundraising event. Does not involve credit
card applications. Fundraising dates are
filling quickly, so call today! Contact
Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.
campusfundraiser.com

lwmkdbmwaihhﬂms

9:00 p.m.

C-school

Room 221
Be There.

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001

Readers protest favorable sweatshop

v"

Free-market fa//acy blinds Kirwan
to reality of sweatshops and development

Dear Editor,

Brett Kirwan is to be pitied, not blamed, for his recent
outburst in the Oct. 29th issue .of The Ring-tum Phi.
Kirwan has absorbed all too well the rhetoric of the free-
market fundamentalists who promote a world economic
order that is flawed at best and catastrophically danger-
ous at worst.-In his critique of the anti-sweatshop move-
ment his naivete is glaring. It is painfully obvious when he
states, “sweatshops aren’t nearly as bad as they’re made
out to be” that he lacks any true knowledge of the lived
reality that sweatshop workers face

My sense is that Kirwan’s assertions and economic
analysis are borne out of an experience that is limited to a
world of position and privilege. (If you are enrolled at W&L,
you are in a position of privilege, as only 1 percent of the
world has a college education.)

Kirwan’s historical analysis of the development of
the U.S. economy is also limited. The “victory over sweat-
shops” (which has not really happened, go to L.A. or
NYC and you can see they are alive and thriving) on U.S.
soil was not the result of growth and “economic feasibil-
ity.” The creation of the eight—hour workday, payment of
health benefits, weekends (I am sure we all value these),
elimination of child labor and other worker protections
were not gifts from the bourgeois. The respect for worker
and human rights in the U.S. was a long, drawn-out and
hard fought battle by local, national and international
organized labor.

“Today, cheap, unskilled labor is scarce in the United
States, so American corporations bring the opportunity
for advancement to the countries where it is available.”
This statement completely exposes Mr. Kirwan’s lack of
understanding of the motives for U.S. multinationals mov-
ing their operations abroad. There is one motive: maximi-
zation of profit. A telephone conversation with a former
sportshoe industry executive made this all to clear to me.
He said, “Do not let anyone at Nike or the other shoe
companies tell you that they were ‘driven’ over to Indone-
sia or anywhere else because of competition or other rea-
sons. There is one reason they are there, greed.” Cer-
tainly Kirwan cannot be foolish enough to believe that
U.S. multinationals are in the business of development
and providing “opportunity for advancement.”

If Kirwan is truly committed to the development model
that he puts forth I would invite him to travel to a developing
country and live and work with women, men and children
who toil in the sweatshops making goods for export. Surely
he would feel that living and working in conditions such as
these would be well worth the suffering since, by his theoriz-
ing, it will eventually lead to economic prosperity.

Yes, the free-market fundamentalist theory looks quite
inviting when you are in the global elite. But the waters



PAGE 5

run a little murkier when you are at the bottom of
capitalism’s food chain. When you are ready to “flip the
script” and live with the poor as the poor live, then one
might find it possible to take arguments for their eco-
nomic development seriously.

Until that time comes, enjoy the bands and beer in

' the Red Square and ultimate frisbee on the Colonnade.

Yes, ignorance is truly bliss.

Sincerely, .
Jim Keady
Co—founder and Director of Educating for Justice

Conservatives should get jobs

Dear Editor,

It is obvious that your Right of the Aisle columnist,
Brett Kirwan, has not yet taken an American history class
or ever had a job.

He needs to look up “Triangle Shirtwaist Factory” on
the intemet, and look at the pictures of nice Jewish girls
falling out of the sky in New York of 1910, burned, suicid-
ing in that familiar way out of the sweatshop they worked
in for pennies a day.

Out here in San Diego, I could get him some real work
for a real man, making burritos or digging ditches for mini-
mum wage, so he could find out just what it means to work
for nothing; he could have that real immigrant experience
he’s so proud of.

Of course he wouldn’t last long- too slow, too fragile,
he would probably cut off one of his fingers in a couple of
days, or hurt his delicate conservative back with real work.
My answer to all you ivory tower intellectual conserva-
tives: get a job.

Sincerely,
Jim Ricker
San Diego State Students Against Sweatshops

USAS devoid of communist overtones

DearEditor,

Before writing his article on sweatshops, Kirwan con-
tacted me, the founder of the W&L chapter of United
Students Against Sweatshops (USAS), for more informa-
tion on the organization. Although he did articulate some
purposes of our organization, I believe that he in fact
grossly misinterpreted or just plain missed other purposes.

First of all, by focusing on the first sentence of the
first principle of USAS and ignoring the other three he
gives a distorted View of the organization’s vision. He
claims that the phrasing “We work in solidarity with work-
ing people’s struggles” implies a communist worldview.
Obviously, he has not understood or seen the fourth prin-
ciple of USAS, which is “We strive to act democratically.”

 

interpretation

WHISTLE WHILE YOU WORK: Despite the obvious usefulness of sweatshops, many claim corproate exploitation and campaign for their abolition.

The fourth principle of USAS goes on to say that the
power of USAS is ultimately an individual power—that
self-evaluation and personal responsibility must come
before any sort of collective struggle. The third principle
of USAS emphasizes the autonomy of each participant
campus and individual. Obviously, the organization is a
grassroots democratic movement. Nowhere in the prin-
ciples is Marxism mentioned, much less promoted. The
fact that I and others believe that we should struggle with
oppressed workers does not imply that we wish to stage
an armed revolution. Martin Luther King, J r., struggled in
solidarity with African-Americans to achieve his goals.
No one would argue that he was a Marxist, rather, he is a
hero of democracy.

Secondly, Kirwan misrepresented USAS’ position on
globalization. In response to the question, “Are we ask-
ing that companies move their production back to the
US?” the FAQ on the USAS website states, “NO! We
believe that workers in developing countries deserve jobs
that will actually contribute to development, not create a
cycle of impoverishment and abuse, as sweatshop jobs
do.” Also, Kirwan’s article ignores the fact that many of
the sweatshops that USAS is working against are located
within the United States.

I also dispute Kirwan’s claim that “sweatshops aren’t
nearly as bad as they’re made out to be.” He simply hasn’t
done his research. To me, before sweatshops are ever an
economic issue, they are a human rights issue. Sweatshops
are a much more complex issue that the cut—and—dry eco-
nomic one that Kirwan imagines. Sweatshops verbally hu-
miliate workers, fence in workers under armed guard, force
workers to work 48-hour shifts during holiday seasons, pol-
lute the drinking waters of workers, pay women less than
men, use unsafe equipment, and fire workers injured by said
equipment. It concerns me that Kirwan is wonied about au-
thoritarian govemments, but not authoritarian employers that
are essentially slaveowners. I work against sweatshops be-
cause I support human rights in all situations.

Finally, I must emphasize that what we are asking for
is not unreasonable for American companies. Currently,
about 3 cents of a $15 college T—shirt goes to the workers
who produced it. Seventy—five percent of the cost of the
T-shirt is proﬁt for the manufacturer and retailer. We are
not asking that companies give up profits, just that they
respect the dedication and humanity of their workers.

Sincerely,
Susan Somers ‘O5

 

improve transportatt

lnfographic by Katie l‘lOWCll/T/it’ Ring-rm Poi
Information collected by Alison Trinidad/Tin» Rirrg-rm P/J1‘

 

 

PAGE 6

“Monsters Inc.’’ full
0 disappointmen 3

BY MIKE GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

The great thing about animated movies these days
is their ability to appeal to both children and adults.
Pixar, which produces computer animated features
for Disney, seems to be the standard bearer for this
trend, releasing clever films like A Bugs Life and the
two Toy Story films.
These films were witty,
charming, and endearing,
with characters that I still
remember. They are the
kind of films you want to
take younger siblings to,
because you know you’ll
enjoy them as much as
they do.

When I stepped into
Monsters, Inc., I expected
to be entertained and not
annoyed. I expected to be
wrapped up in a film with sympathetic and endearing
characters. I expected, at the very least, to laugh. As
much as I expected this film to be a step up from previ-
ous Pixar features, it did not deliver.

The concept of Monsters, Inc. is not the problem.
Basically, the story tries to explain the old story of the
monster in the closet, a common experience of child-
hood. Mike and Sully, two monsters who live in the
city of Monstopolis, work for Monsters, Inc., a giant
corporation which collects the screams of children and
converts them to energy. Sully is the most frightening
monster working for the company, but his supremacy
is being challenged by Reggie, a reptilian creature who
can blend like a chameleon into any surface he touches.
When a human child ﬁnds her way into the world of
the monsters, Mike and Sully must get her home with-
out the company and the human-wary world around
them noticing. Along the way, Sully and Mike learn
how to accept those who are different and that evil is
not always where you expect it.

While Monsters, Inc. is charming to a degree, I can’t
help but find it predictable. The creators try to sympa-
thize with the problems kids face, like being appreci-
ated in a world of adult. In the process, however, they
alienate adults from a concept that if done properly
would have brought parents and kids together.

Another problem I had with this ﬁlm was that it was
too predictable. You pretty much knew how it was go-
ing to turn out from the beginning. Recently, Disney
ﬁlms seem to center around‘ accepting the differences
of others. Monsters, Inc. was another rehash of this
tired ideal. Along with this conceptual problem, allu-
sions to an oppressive’ government and corporate greed
were all too familiar.

I think the voice talent in this ﬁlm, however, was
excellent. Billy Crystal, John Goodman, and Steve
Buscemi work well together, bringing comic timing and
wit to their characters. As much as the ﬁlm was ﬁlled
with talent, I found it flat. The creators spent too much
time on animation (which was, I admit, truly exceptional)
instead of the sophistication of the plot. Truly harrow-
ing sequences and amazing animated effects do not
make up for a story that, in my mind, has something
missing.

It’s worth taking a younger sibling to, but don’t
expect to be entertained. I would suggest a theatre that
allows pillows.

 

Tiilii RENIIE-"§"£_ji.\i PIII

KATIE HO\tEII.A\I)MmIIE\vMcDEItIIOrr
SLl’ER\«I§H\‘G PAGE EDIIORS
EAIAIE PHl@\VIL’.l~I)U

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001

PUMPKIN PATCHES

  
   

 

PH()'l'OS BY I\l-\It\' GI T A\I) :\IF,G RRAIH/T/)6 Rivet////)1P/Ji

W&L ‘Toughman’ boxes in Lewisburg, W.Va.

BYMAT1" COURSEN
STAFF \V'RI'I‘ER

A new first for a Washington and Lee
student occurred last Friday night. Junior
Matthew Conners participated in the box-
ing competition known as Toughman.

Sponsored by Budweiser
and the FX network, -
Toughman is an amateur box-
ing tournament conducted
in 44 states and abroad.
Fighters undergo pre-
ﬁght physicals and are
supervised closely by
EMTs and physicians
during the contest. In
addition, the fighters
must wear protective .
head gear, mouthpieces, ‘
groin protection, and
16-ounce gloves in an
effort to remain as safe
as possible. As the of-
ficial Toughman
website claims: “There
are no pre—determined
winners: every man and woman is fighting
for fame and glory, in front of people they
know, and a chance to advance to regional
events and, ultimately, to the World Cham-

   
 
    

CONORS.  

pionship on Pay Per View.”

On a whim, Conners applied via mail—in
application and was suipiised to see a rather
quick return from Toughman. He was noti-
ﬁed that his first contest was scheduled for
November 2 at 8:00 p.m.at West Virginia State
Fairgrounds in Lewisburg. W.Va. Conners, a
former amateur kickboxer, was excited for the
event and eager to determine whether his
experience in the ring would afford him an
advantage in the contest. The official rules
state that no professional boxers or amateurs
with more than 5 wins in the last 5 years are
allowed to compete in the two-day elimina-
tion tournament. Because Conners has not
fought since he was a young teenager, he
was cleared to participate.

This was the first time a W&L student
has participated in a sanctioned amateur
boxing tournament, and the University was
certainly represented well. In support of
their brother, Connors’ fraternity sent
nearly 40 students to the event, which was
over 80 miles away on Interstate 64. In ad-
dition to Conner’s raucous fan base, nearly
2000 local spectators came in droves to
see their high school quarterback or local
fireman compete. Freshmen and alumni
alike cheered for Conners as he bobbed
and weaved his way to a unanimously de-
cided victory after the full 3-one minute

   

I REALLY AM 21, I SWEAR: Agnello turns his discriminating palate to Scot1and’s greatest treasure, single-malt scotch.

BY MIKE AGNELLO
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

In the spirit of the Mike’s Pub column that appeared in the
Phi last year, I, a different Mike, will review those lively liba-
tions that fail to grace our Natty—soaked gizzards. This week,
Itake on the granddaddy of all hard liquor: single-malt scotch.

Single—malts, as opposed to blended scotch, utilize a
single malt during the distilling process, and do not include
any grain whisky. Blends can be as much as 80% grain.

Since this is my ﬁrst colurrm, I thought it might behoove
my readers to learn how to taste scotch properly. Scots prefer
to taste their spirits in dram glasses, which are little more than
square shooters. But tuck away those memories of playing
quarters at the fraternity house; proper tasters sip slowly.

Fill the dram or shot glass with your scotch of choice.
Inhale deeply while slowly swirling the liquid around the
glass. Write down your observations. The best “tasters”
are so good that they don’t even have to taste.

After a few good sniffs, take a small sip. Swirl the spirit
around your mouth so it touches every part of your tongue.
This is important, because different regions of the tongue
detect the different ﬂavors.

Alcohol column turns to section

rounds of fighting. Judges, in the event of
a decision or a technical knockout, use the
l0—point must system with points awarded
for aggression, power, number of hits, etc.
Conners, ﬁghting under his ring name
“Short Irish,” came out swinging, constantly
attacking his opponent with a ﬂurry of upper-
cuts and haymakers.
Connors said he appreciated the show
support.
“It made a huge difference. Having every-
one there made it a much better experience.”
W&L alumnus John Sensing said, “I wasn’t
going to go, but then I was told he was Irish.”
Before the ﬁght, Conners was admit-
tedly nervous. Though he has had years
of experience in a similar arena, Conners
was stunned at the number of people who
attended the event, which was held in a
large, aluminum warehouse much like the
Virginia Horse Center. As he found out
before the fight, biting, wrestling,
headbutting, and kicking are strictly pro-
hibited in the Toughman competition, and
thus, Conners would simply have to punch
his way to a victory. Fighters are broken
down into 2 weight classes. Men between
160-184 pounds are grouped as Light
Heavyweights, and those between 185-400
are rightfully considered Heavyweights.
Women have an open weight class.

After drinking half the glass, add a little water to the
glass. This reduces the alcohol content, but also allows
the whisky to open up its full bouquet of ﬂavors. Straight
scotch can often cause the imbiber to swallow quickly
before he can get the full benefit of a complete tasting.

For this week’s tasting, I selected Glen Garioch’s eight-
year—old. Glen Garioch is distilled in the Scottish high-
lands by Morrison Bowmore. Scots have been drinking
Glen Garioch for over 200 years. Their long tradition of
quality does not affect the price; a bottle cost only $18.95
at the ABC store. The bottle features a large moose stand-
ing against the majestic backdrop of a Scottish loch.

The Glen Garioch has a good nose, with hints of peat
and rye. This spirit manages to have an alluring odor with-
out numbing the senses.

Unfortunately, this spirit disappoints a bit after sipping.
There is a notable lack of complexity, despite pleasant but-
terscotch and toffee hints. The Glen Garioch is worth the
price, however. and would serve well as an apertif or a re-
placement for beer. Imbibers new to single-malts might do
well to start with this one; no sense hurrying a virgin palate.

Any questions or suggestions? E-mail me at
agnellom@wlu.edu. Cheers.

Conners weighed in at 18] pounds, put-
ting him against a similarly built 35-year-
old Lewisburg native who seemed to have
some experience in the ring as well. After
maintaining a quick, aggressive strategy of
jabbing and moving, Conners was able to
take the other boxer the full 3 rounds.
Though his opponent landed some glanc-
ing punches, Conners connected on sev-
eral punishing blows to the man’s face and
head, resulting in a unanimous decision by
the judges in Conners’ favor.

After the chair—pounding, ﬁst—pumping
fight, which was the 17th bout in a 25—bout
ticket, Conners and his fanatics posed for a
photo before starting their 90-minute drive
back to campus. Much to his delight,
Conners did not sustain any injuries exclud-
ing some minor dehydration and fatigue.

Connors’ feelings before the bell rang
were normal, yet refreshingly comical.

“I was nervous. Ijust didn’t want to
break anything.”

Now, Matt Conners will return to his
daily routine as a history major and a la-
crosse player, trying to experience as much
as he can before graduation.

“Fighting in the Toughman was some-
thing I did for the experience and, of course,
the fun of it.”

read the Phi.

read the Phi.

_read te Phi.

 

JEIEMYFRANRIIN

SPOKISEDHOR

EMAH; FRANl<llI\]@WlU.EDU
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2001

 Rli\?'r’.}-’t‘i.'.\.i PR:

PORT

PAGE 7

ODAC title

Back on top: W&L

Generals use homecounl advantage to
secure 4th conference crown in 5 years

BY ]EREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Winning three matches in less than 24 hours is a tall
order for any team.

Washington and Lee volleyball was up to the chal-
lenge Friday and Saturday, knocking off Guilford,
Bridgewater and Roanoke en route to their fourth Old
Dominion Athletic Conference championship in ﬁve years.

“You’ve got to come ready to play,” said senior Leslie
Fischbeck, one of two Generals named to the a1l—touma-
ment team. “It’s a big match on your homecourt. We had
the advantage, so we had to be ready to play.”

W&L started off the tournament with a 30-19, 30-26,
30-26 quarterﬁnal win over eighth-seed Guilford. The Gen-
erals looked sloppy at several points in the match, but
played their way out of a 22-18 deficit in the second game
and an early 9-5 hole in the third.

“We deﬁnitely did not play our best, but we played
well enough to win,” said Bryan Snyder, who garnered his
first ODAC title in his second year as coach.

Senior Lindsay Ruckert, the weekend’s MVP and the
other W&L all-toumament selection, had 10 kills and 10
digs against the Quakers. Fischbeck totaled 11 kills, and
freshman Jennifer Lux recorded 35 assists.

The Generals corrected many of their mistakes in Sat-
urday moming’s semiﬁnal win over Bridgewater. Despite
a valiant effort from the defending champion Eagles. W&L
pulled out a 30-21 , 27-30, 30-22, 30-24 victory.

“We did do a good job getting a lot of touches as well
as blocking back, and we hit the ball well,” Snyder ‘said.
“Our passing was a little bit better, so we were able to run
our offense.

“That’s where we have an advantage over most teams:
we have more hitters. Every position out there, we have
someone who can put the ball away.”

After appearing overmatched in the first game,
Bridgewater jumped out to a 9-1 lead in the second. They
led by as much as 21-10 before a rally pulled the Generals
to within a point at 28-27.

Behind the attacking of Ruckert and the serving of
junior Stacey Kimmel, W&L took control of the third game.
Bridgewater played with the Generals in the fourth game,
but W&L took an early lead and never relinquished it.

volleyball wins

MARY GtY/ The Ring-In /2

CAN YOU DIG IT?: Freshman Emily \Wolﬁng (20) prepares to play a ball in \X/&L’s 30-21, 30-20, 30-15 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship win over Roanoke. junior Stacey Kimmel (12) and senior Lindsay Ruckert look on.

Ruckert finished with 21 kills, breaking her own school
record for kills in a season —— 446 after the championship
match. Lux tallied 39 more assists. and classmate Emily
Wolfing added 12 digs.

Snyder believed his team saved the best for the cham-
pionship match, a 30-21, 30-20, 30-15 win over surprising
seventh-seed Roanoke. The Maroons’ latest lead in any
of the three games was a 5-4 advantage in the final frame.

“We hadn’t been super-sharp the rest of the weekend,”
he said. “Everything just came together today. We’ve been
ﬁring on about three or four cylinders lately, but today
everybody who was out there made a contribution.”

The Generals looked incredibly sharp at the net against
the Maroons. attacking well and blocking more than an
average shareiof Roanoke attacks.

“Everybody up on the net was really strong,’

9

said

A Ruckert, who contributed 13 kills. “We just got up there

and hit it.” ~

Sewanee Overpowers Generals

iigers too much for W&L swimmers in 1st road meet of the 2001-02 season

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

SEWANEE, Tenn.—This weekend saw the Generals’
swim teams on the road at the University of the South, but
the Sewanee Tigers proved to be too much for both teams.

The men’s team ended up losing by a ﬁnal score of l 18-

83. Coach Andrew Pulsifer wasn’t heartbroken — he noted V

a lot of improving times on his team.

“Every guy on the team is getting into better shape
and is bringing his times down,” he said. “Ten of the 13
guys on the trip made season best times, and that’s al-
ways nice.

“There were five close races, including a relay, that
could’ve gone our way, but we got second.”

Pulsifer pointed to Patrick Frankfort as a single domi-
nating swimmer. The junior swam to victory in both the
500 and 1,000 freestyle events. ’

“Sewanee has a very strong class of freshmen this
year. Out of the ﬁve, at least three have a very good shot
at NCAA qualifying times,” Pulsifer said.

With that kind of talent, the Tigers were just too tough to beat.

On the women’s side, the ﬁnal score was 135-75. Coach
Kiki Jacobs Moore was happy with the meet.

“Two of my swimmers got career best times, and every-
one else hit good early season times,” Moore said.

Senior Katie Kennedy swam to a pair of wins in the
200 individual medley and the 100 backstroke. Junior
Kelli Austin won the 100 and 200 freestyle events. Moore
also noted an outstanding performance by her 200 med-

FIIT PHOTO
THE BACKSTROKE:_]ut1iOr Kirk Vogel and the Generals lost to
Sewanee 118-83 on the road on Saturday.

ley relay team of Kennedy, Austin, junior Michelle Moore
and freshman Eleanor Williams.

“Sewanee’s a very deep team — they have a couple of
excellent top swimmers,” Moore said. “After this weekend, we
need a little more conditioning in the longer events, but it’s still
a little early in the season to be expecting too much there.”

Both Pulsifer and Moore were quick to point out that
Sewanee is “a long way to go for a dual meet.”

The women’s team opens their Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence schedule Wednesday with a 7 p.m. home meet against Sweet
Biiar. The men’s team returns to action Nov. 1 8 at Gettysburg.

IELD

{.’.2l-ES
s atr::.r:om

Fischbeck added 12 kills for the Generals, and Lux
amassed 36 assists. Freshman Michelle Chastain ﬁnished
with 12 digs.

W&L receives an automatic bid to the NCAA Touma-
ment, where they will participate in the South Regional on
Nov. 8-11. Snyder knows that his team will face an oppo-
nent tougher than any team the ODAC can throw at them,
and he believes the primary aspect the Generals can im-
prove upon is their consistency.

“We look great at some points, and at some points we
look like it’s the ﬁrst day of practice,” Snyder said. “We’ve
gotten to the point where we know, offensively and defen-
sively, what we want to do. It’s just a matter of doing it.”

Ruckert, meanwhile, hopes that W&L can carry some mo-
mentum from the ODAC Tournament into NCAA competition.

“We’ve just got to keep going, keep doing what we’re
doing,” she said. “We’re at a high level. We just need to
maintain it.”

W&L looks sharper with each match

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For the Washington and Lee volleyball team, the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament was a story of
improvement.

The Generals, who lost just two conference games all
season in breezing to a 10-0 ODAC record, played pro-
gressively better in dispatching Guilford, Bridgewater and
Roanoke to win the school’s ﬁfth conference title. V

W&L made several mistakes in Friday night’s match
against the No. 8 Quakers, but managed to pull out a three-
game sweep.

“They weren’ t glaring errors,” W&L coach Bryan Snyder
said of his team’s miscues. “Our passing would be a foot off,
a foot too tight, and then our setter didn’t have any options.
We set bad, and that forced us to hit it out of bounds.”

Snyder found a few other areas for his team to improve
upon before Saturday’s semiﬁnal.

“We didn’t serve-receive well,” he said. “We also
didn’t pass the free balls very well, and that’s really what
we can control.”

The Generals may have played poorly against Guilford,
but more importantly, they picked up their play on the sec-
ond day of the tournament. Against a much tougher oppo-
nent in Bridgewater, W&L pulled out a four—game win.

“(Bridgewater) passed the ball pretty well,” Snyder said.
‘Typically, we get a lot of easy points off serves, and we
didn’t. So the games were a lot closer than they normally are.”

The improvement carried over into the championship
match against Roanoke on Saturday afternoon. Snyder
praised the performance of his team’s two all—toumarnent
selections, seniors Lindsay Ruckert and Leslie Fischbeck,
for their play against the Maroons.

“Fpr two seniors to step up in their last home match, it’s
a great feeling for me to see them do that,” Snyder said.
“Lindsay’s a great player. Whenever everything breaks
down, you can put the ball up there, and she’ll bail you out.
She plays great defense, she blocks, she serves well.

“When Leslie’s on, we’re a great team. (Against
Roanoke) we got her the ball and got her in a rhythm, and
she really played great.”

The Maroons’ aggressive attacking played right into
the Generals’ hands, and the rest is history.

“We had to take advantage of the overpasses, their
mistakes, and that starts at the net,” Fischbeck said.

SCOREBOARD

SATuROAY’s FOOTBALL YARDLINE

Emory and Henry 35, W&L 17
W&L O 7 7 3 — 17
Emory and Henry 7 0 7 21 —- 35
First Quarter
E&H — S. Johnson 7 run (Clark kick), 11:32
Second Quarter
W&L — Thomas 12 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 14:51
Third Quarter
W&L — Watson 4 run (Wiginton kick), 7:19
E&H — W. Johnson 8 blocked punt return (Clark kick), 4:21
Fourth Quarter
W&L — Wiginton FG 22, 14:16
E&H — Kickliter 14 pass from S. Johnson (Clark kick), 10:15
E&H — Hammonds 30 run (Clark kick), 8:42
E&H — Kickliter 1 pass from S. Johnson (Clark kick), 7:11
A — 5,728

W&L E&H
First downs 22 14
Rushes-yards 49-281 36-123
Passing yards 104 136
Return yards 97 170
Comp-att-int 11 -27-1 10-26-1
Sacked-yards lost 2-14 1-1
Punts-avg 7-32.4 6-40.5
Fumbles-lost 1-1 0-0
Penalties-yards 1-10 4-25
Time of possession 33:00 27:00

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSHlNG—W&L: Sullivan 32-162, Watson 10-103, Dean 7-16.
E&H: Cheatham 14-39, Hammonds 4-34, 8. Johnson 9-29, Satteriield
4-10, Mullins 2-6, Bailey 1-5, Scammell 2-0.

PASSlNG—W&L: Dean 11-27-1 104. E&H: S. Johnson 10-26-1 136.

RECElVlNG—W&L: Sullivan 5-15, Thomas 4-41, Brimer 1-43,
Watson 1-5. E&H: Davis 3-39, Brightbill 2-20, Kickliter 2-15, Green 1-
42, Gardner 1-16, Scammell 1-4.

ODAC MEN’s SOCCER TOURNAMENT '

Results from the 2001 Old Dominion Athletic Conference men’s soccer
championships:

Quarterfinals (Oct. 27 at higher seed)

No. 1 Washington and Lee 2, No. 8 Gullford 1

No. 4 Hampden-Sydney 3, No. 5 Lynchburg 0

No. 2 Roanoke 4, No. 7 Eastern Mennonite 0

No. 3 Virginia Wesleyan 2, No. 6 Emory and Henry 1

Semiilnals (Nov. 2 at Washington and Lee)
No. 2 Roanoke 3, No. 3 Virginia Wesleyan 2, 2OT
No. 1 Washington and Lee 1, No. 4 Hampden-Sydney 0

Championship (Nov. 3 at Washington and Lee)
No. 2 Roanoke 3, No. 1 Washington and Lee 2

All-Tournament Team

Brandan Moffett, Roanoke David Kodack, Washington and Lee
Ryan Pflugrad, Roanoke Chad Quenneville, Hampden-Sydney
Chris Ebeling, Roanoke Rob Comegys, Hampden-Sydney
Harold McConnell, Roanoke Eric Shenloogian, Virginia Wesleyan
Paul Wallace, Washington and Lee Curtis Shank, Virginia Wesleyan

Tim Foley, Washington and Lee '

W&L'SCHEOuLE: NOVEMBER 6-19

Tuesday, Nov. 13
Women’s Swimming
W&L at Hollins, 6:30 p.m.

Wednesday, Nov. 7
Women’s Swimming
Sweet Briar at W&L, 7 p.m.

Friday, Nov. 16
Men’s Basketball
W&L at Haverlord, 6 p.m.

November 8-11
Voﬂeyban
W&L at NCAA South Regional

Saturday, Nov. 17

Cross Country

NCAA Nationals (at Augustana
College, Ill.)

Men’s Basketball

W&L vs. Swarthmore, 1 p.m.

Women’s Swimming

W&L at Swarthmore, 2 pm.

Saturday, Nov. 10
Wrestling
VMI Keydet Invitational, 10 a.m.
Cross Country
W&L at NCAA S/SE Regional

(at Mississippi College)
Women’s Swimming
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 11 a.m.
Football
Greensboro at W&L, 1 p.m.

Sunday, Nov. 18
Men's and Women’s Swimming
W&L at Gettysburg, 12 p.m.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

Conference Overall
Team W L PF PA W L
Bridgewater 221 113
Emory and Henry 128 107
Washington and Lee 153 127
Hampden-Sydney 160 153
Randolph-Macon 82 158
Guiltord 87 165
Catholic 114 122

P F

348
205
194
258
175
144
191

—tr\Jl\)l'\)<a)(DU‘I

Week of November 10
Greensboro at W&L
Hampden-Sydney at
Randolph-Macon
Emory and Henry at Gulltord
Catholic at Bridgewater

November 3 Results

Emory and Henry 35, W&L 17
Bridgewater 62, Randolph-

Macon 15

Guiliord 32, Catholic 23
Hampden-Sydney 45, Maryville 21

ODAC VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT

Results from the 2001 Old Dominion Athletic Conference volleyball
championships, held Nov. 2-3 at Washington and Lee:

Quarterfinals (Nov. 2)

No. 1 Washington and Lee def. No. 8 Guilford 30-19, 30-26, 30-26
No. 5 Bridgewater def. No. 4 Eastern Mennonite 30-26, 30-17, 30-26
No. 7 Roanoke def. No. 2 Lynchburg 23-30, 24-30, 30-16, 30-17, 15-8
No. 3 Emory and Henry def. No. 6 Randolph-Maoon 30-22, 30-28, 30-28

Semifinals (Nov. 3)

No. 1 Washington and Lee def. No. 5 Bridgewater 30-21, 27-30,
30-22, 30-24

No. 7 Roanoke def. No. 3 Emory and Henry 30-20, 32-30, 30-27

Championship (Nov. 3)
No. 1 Washington and Lee def. No. 7 Roanoke 30-21, 30-20, 30-15

All-Tournament Team

Heather Cook, Roanoke

Holly Everhart, Emory and Henry
Leslie Fischbeck, Washington and Lee
Sarah French, Bridgewater

Holly Holland, Roanoke

Lindsay Ruckert, Washington and Lee

  

PAGE 8

  

Men’s soccer falls

Mtzt. Ftikimt \ / ’l in Rzngtrrzir P/21'

TWO-GOAL SCORER: Freshmanjustin Mygatt attempts to elude Roanoke’s Tsuyoshi
Oshika in \‘v'&L’s 3-2 loss in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference ﬁnals at the
Liberty Hall Fields. 1\'lygatt scored both ofthe Generals’ goals.

Mistakes prve cotly fr &L

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

EMORY—Emory and Henry con-
verted two blocked punts, a fumbled
kickoff and an interception into
touchdowns Saturday in handing
Washington and Lee a 35-17 defeat
on the gridiron.

Junior Chris Sullivan rushed 32
times for 162 yards, and senior Marc
Watson added 103 yards on 10 car-
ries for the Generals (4-5, 3-3 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference). W&L
outgained the Wasps (5-4, 3-2) 385-
259 in total offense.

“I for sure believed this was the
year to knock off Emory and Henry,”
said Frank Miriello, who hasn’t de-
feated the Wasps in seven tries as
W&L’s head coach. “Defensively and
offensively, we accomplished that.
Special teams and our critical turnover
proved our demise.

“It’s very disappointing, and again
we played well enough on offense and
defense to pull out that victory.”

Emory and Henry got on the
board in the first quarter after block-
ing sophomore Whit Whitfie1d’s
punt. Quarterback Shannon
Johnson scored on a 7-yard run
three plays later.

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 53991

to Roanoke in ODAC championship

Generals knock oit Hampden-Sydney in semiﬁnals before dropping 3-2 decision to No. 2 Maroons in title game

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team defeated Hampden-
Sydney in a semifinal match before
falling to Roanoke Saturday in the
championship game of the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Tourna-
ment at the Liberty Hall Fields.

The Generals advanced to the fi-
nals with a 1-0 win over the Tigers on
Friday. Senior Paul Wallace scored the
only goal of the match, an unassisted
tally, at the 16:20 mark of the first half.

“Scoring a goal was big with a 1-0
win,” W&L coach Rolf Piranian said.
“That was a great run, too. Obviously,
it was a big-time goal.”

Despite attempting 10 comer kicks,
eight of which came in the second half,
Hampden-Sydney couldn’t put the
ball past W&L junior goalkeeper Tim
Foley. The closest call, an apparent

Fill Photo

OVER THE CENTURY MARK: Senior Marc Watson rushed 10 times for 103 yards and
a touchdown in \lv'&l.’s 35-l7 road loss to Emory and Henry on Saturday.

W&L sophomore quarterback Pe-
ter Dean connected with junior Jay
Thomas on the opening play of the
second quarter for a 12-yard touch-
down and a 7-7 tie.

The Generals went up 14-7 midway
through the third quarter on a 4-yard
Watson TD run. But three minutes later,
Willie Johnson retumed another blocked
Whitﬁeld punt eight yards for a score.

Senior Brad Wiginton put W&L
back up 17-14 early in the fourth with
a 22-yard field -goal. The kick was
Wiginton’s 11th of the season, a
school record.

After that point, the Wasps took
over. Johnson hit Brett Kickliter for a
14-yard touchdown pass. Following
a Dean interception, Dan Hammonds
rushed for a 30-yard TD.

goal by Pat Whitehead, was negated
because of an offside call.

Meanwhile, Foley made four
saves in recording his fourth shut-
out of the season.

“They definitely had the height on
us, which helped them for their cor-
ner kicks,” Foley said. “But I don’t
really get worried a lot because we
have a solid defense. The games we
have trouble in are when we can’t get
our offense clicking.”

W&L also had several chances to
add to their lead after halftime, par-
ticularly in the closing stages of the
game. Sophomore Philip Miller drilled
a shot off the post in the 88th minute.
Freshman Justin Mygatt had a pair of
chances shortly after, including a
header that was saved by the Tigers’
Austin Krison.

Despite the win, Piranian believed
his team Could have turned in a stron-
ger performance.

football

W&L fumbled the ensuing kickoff,
and Johnson found Kickliter for a 1-
yard score to give Emory and Henry
an 18-point cushion.

Sullivan’s rushing effort pushed
him up to 1,071 yards for the year,
making him just the fifth player in
W&L history to rush for more than
1,000 in a season.

“He’s a ﬁne football player, and I’m
looking forward to him having a good
game next week and agreat season
next year,” Miriello said of Sullivan.
"Hopefully he’ll be an all-conference
tailback selection, which he well de-
serves. He’s really done a great job
this year.”

Despite the loss to the Wasps,
Miriello believes his team has im-
proved on last season’s 2-4 confer-
ence mark. The Generals have been
competitive in every ODAC contest,
something that didn’t happen in 2000.

“lt would have been nice to get that
win,” Miriello said. “We’re 3-3 in the
conference, and that’s an improve-
ment. It’s a step in the right direction,
and we‘ve got a fantastic nucleus of
returning lettermen (next season).”

W&L concludesthe 2001 season
Saturday at home against Greensboro.
The teams are set to kick off at 1 p.m.
at Wilson Field.

  Lexington-
Rockbridge County
United Way seeks
webmaster for new
webpage.
Minimal 1
experience
required.  

Con1'ac1'         
mcdermo1'rm@wlu . edu  

“I’d say our kids can play a lot
better than they showed,” the vet-
eran coach said. “We played good
enough to win, and that was about
the extent of it.”

The Generals were unable to repeat
their performance on Saturday, as
Roanoke jumped out to a 3-0 lead
18:15 into the ﬁrst half on goals by
Brandan Moffett, Harold McConnell
and Ryan Pflugrad.

The match quickly adopted a
physical nature, as four Maroons —
including assistant coach Dustin
Fonder — and two Generals received
yellow cards. Roanoke’s Regi
Francois was thrown out of the match
on a red card in the 13th minute.

W&L staged a late rally, as
Mygatt scored twice: the first at
68:39 in the second half off an_as-
sist from sophomore Bret Grote, and
the second with 2:35 remaining by
way of a Miller assist.

“Definitely a highlight,” Piranian
said of Mygatt’s performance. “A lot
of the highlights came from our young
kids. A lot of our veterans didn’t play
exactly well, and the young kids re-
ally picked us up.”

Piranian was also pleased that his
team didn’t pack it in after the first half.

“I would have preferred to see 90
minutes of soccer,” he said. “But I’m
glad we didn’t quit. lt’s a little more
uplifting than getting shellacked 3-0.”

The Generals ﬁnished the year with
an overall record of 12-4-1. Although
they had hoped for a repeat of 2000’s
ODAC title, the team’s first since 1989,
W&L did win the regular season con-
ference crown.

“There’s only been two teams (in
school history) that had more wins
than we had,” Piranian said. “But
I’d be lying to you ifl said I didn’t
think the team was capable of a
little bit more.” ‘

South Regional

Next week on the sports pages of the Phi
-Coverage of the W&L volleyball team in the NCAA

-Previews of men’s and women’s basketball

-Continued coverage of all varsity athletics

 

