t3?7s.75’5

"R ’2_
- x/Sgt

T:-I? Ram;-'5'
mo. M. INSIDE

I \z PI-LI

UNDER SIEGE (I3 PAGE 2
AsHt:I<or'I‘ r..I:..-ms (TH:XRC;E
."«C}Al.\S’E‘ crvn. I'.lISF.R'1"lF.S.
W&L SPIKED (1) PAGE 5

\"'(‘>l,l.I"x‘{l%AI.l. r.r..>:~:r;.s TO
l':':‘.-.\.r< Irzv IN S<n,=TI-I
RIIat;r<‘>>¢.=rI. .\l“..‘.ilI<l;’\‘=-'\E.

I ’ ‘z:7<:i;I= \‘Z’.asIr're.\cT: is my Lars; [Ts lK'§€RStT\' sttx-I:I~;

Wiser;  AND LEE U; nvnnsrrr

NG-TUM

1180"‘ (I) O.\‘r.r.\: Jar: P?-§t.'\\; $.i...E:f)

JAMES G. LEYSLWJ LIBRARY
WASHINOWUEN & LE UNNIWSITY
 VA M

NW 1 62001

PHI

Tar. Ilxrsr.-1*-'I.r PHI
I DEX

OPINIC)NS
SPORTS

24/ 7
S(:I:)Rr.B<).ARD

THE PHI WILL
RETURN DEC. 3.

“I-’="sr.:‘.‘.Ir.: CIV’,  XIV

l.r.:>:I'\;~::r‘:;,\», \.7§;‘<.’r':E'\.'l.~‘». L.’.é"+§-it

i\I();\-§.).’r'I’, E\Er';vr.i:sER 12, 2601

  . Run on ﬂu vaccinations; students get first shot

V

I‘

‘.

FLU FACTS

Influenza causes feve
muscle aches.

Flu season lasts from Nov

First two days:

Fever and aches.

mfru-eusrsn

The best time to get the 5

or November.
WHAT TO EXPECT AFTER A
Soreness, redness or swelling

I Any other reactions, such as hig
71 ' need immediate medical attent

te who have received the vacc
they usually get milder cases.
-—Courtesy

more conIII'rsI'YAHoo.co\I, INK)R.\lATlON corrpnrn BY IATRINA Srorqss, l.\FOGlL\PHl(. BYAUS()N TRIx1DAI)/ TI-ir~; Ri.\(;-Tl )1 PHI

Nelson and Jefferson most dangerous crossing

BY MIKE AGNELLO
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

More cars collide at the intersection of Nelson and
Jefferson streets than any other place in Lexington, ac-

cording to police data.

The intersection, one of Lexington’s busiest, has been

the site of several car crashes each year, accounting for
nearly half of all accidents in Lexington’s downtown area.

Police cite Nelson Street’s hilly terrain and proximity
to U.S. Route 11 as the primary factors.

Senior Jeremy Kirkland crashed his Dodge Durango
into a trafﬁc signal at the intersection on Nov. 5 after slam-
ming on his brakes to avoid a Sweetbriar University stu-
dent running a red light.

Kirkland said Lexington’s narrow streets and buildings’
close proximity to the streets contributed to the accident.

, “I could tell she wasn’t going to stop, and I hit my
brakes,” Kirkland said. “I could tell she hit hers as soon as
she saw me, but by then it was too late.”

Other accident—prone intersections include
Jefferson and Washington, Main and Washington, and
Main and Nelson.

The top three causes of accidents are driver inatten-
tion, hit—and-run and failing to yield right—of—way.

Those three types of accidents accounted for
more than half of all Lexington car accidents from
1997-2000, according to Beard’s 2000 report to Lex-
ington City Council.

Beard could not be reached for comment.

KirklarId’s accident was statistically oneof the most
common in Lexington.

His car collided with a driver who failed to yield right
of way at Jefferson and Nelson. When told how common
his accident was, Kirkland said Lexington should do more
to make drivers visible.

Buena Vista recently adopted ﬂashing lights at its
busiest sections to alleviate traffic accidents.

By PETER QUACKENBUSH
START WRITER

Students have priority for ﬂu vaccina-
tions this season at the Student Health Cen-
ter, or Infirmary, because a nationwide vac-
cine shortage has caused a shipment delay.

Four major manufacturers reported dif-
ﬁculties in making the vaccines last year,
and the delay has cut into this year’s pro-
duction cycle.

The Infirrnary has received 150 doses
of the vaccine and expects to receive 200
more in early December.

To accommodate the delay, Washing-
ton and Lee Director of Health Services Jane
Horton said the vaccine will only be offered
to students until the additional vaccine is
received. .

Horton said the Student Health Center
vaccinated about 450 people in 1999, the most
it had done. Only 150 of those vaccinated
were students. In the past, twice as many
faculty and staff members as students got
their ﬂu shots at the Inﬁrmary, said Horton.

Although she encourages students to
get theirs as early as possible, Horton says
it is never too late to get a shot.

In addition to the vaccine, increased
hand washing can help students avoid get-
ting sick. Horton advises those who are
sick to avoid close environments.

Most students and faculty, however, do
not seem to be worried.

“I didn’t think I needed one,” said fresh-
man Chasen Hutchens, who has never got-
ten a shot. “But I heard they hurt.”

According to the Centers for Disease
Control, dormitories or other crowded areas
are considered higher-risk outbreak spots
than most places.

“It makes more sense for students liv-
ing in dormitories to get the shot,” Horton
said. That makes freshmen the most likely
students to get the ﬂu.

Freshman David Larson, showed disbe-
lief at his increased chance of catching the ﬂu
He said, “I have faith in my immune system.”

Junior Joanna James does not have any
plans to take the shot either.

“I don’t take shots if I don’t have to,”
she said. “I’ll try and not get sick.”

Staff and faculty members that are more
likely to need the vaccination have relied on
the Inﬁrmary in the past, including the staff
of Leybum Library.

“We try to get the vaccine because we’re
handling so many books. We tend to get most of
the student diseases,” said Circulation Supervi-
sor Vicki Sessions. “I know a few tried to get it
earlierfromtheirdoctors, but weren’tab1e to.”

The staff tends to get very sick after the
major breaks, she said.

“We think that we have good immune
systems,” Sessions said, “but the students
always come up with something new.”

Horton pointed out that the faculty re-
lies on their primary care physicians, not the
health center. The hospital does not have
sufﬁcient vaccine doses to hold a ﬂu vac-
cine clinic at W&L.

The cost for vaccinations at the Stu-
dent Health Center is $7 and comes with a
free lollipop.

—Latrina Stokes contributed to this story.

Godspell raises
bar in student drama

BY MATIHEW MCDERMUIT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Godspell, the ﬁrst student-directed production to open

Beard’s 2001 report will come out in early 2002.

‘E-mail news briefs to pIu'@wlu.edu. 

Looking for women

Women’s Forum is accepting
nominations for Inspiring Campus
Woman of the Year.

In 150 words or less explain
why the nominee, any female mem-
ber of the W&L community, is in-
spirational. Submit nominations to
envelopes in the Science Center,
Library and Co-op, or email to
gilkesonn@wlu.edu by Wednes-
day, Nov. 14. Winners will be rec-
ognized in an upcoming issue of
She Says.

Beauty pageant winner
speaks on feminisim

Meghan Shanley, Miss Virginia
2001, will speak in N orthen Audito-
rium at 7:00 PM. on Tuesday. Shanley
will address the topic of femininity
in feminism, with a question/answer
period to follow. Knowledge Empow-
ering Women Leaders (KEWL),
Women’s Forum and the Rockbridge
Area NOW are sponsoring the event.
All members of the W&L commu-
nity are welcome.

;\xr r:oIRII=n' ( )F r3'x.m.\I, l.\JFORI\L\Tl( )N (.0.\lPllFI) In I\rlll\'F. Acmrx) FROM  POIKF. DFPARMIFNI 2000 Ar~.MtAI. RI-'.voIrrTo THE Cm’ COUNCIL

l.\l‘0GRAPHIC BY KATIE HowFrr/ THE RII\'G~71M PHI

on Lenfest Tl1eater’s main stage, will raise curtain on Nov. 30.

Produced and directed by junior Neal Willetts, a his-
tory and theater major, the rock musical is a remake of the
1970’s retelling of the Gospel of Matthew.

Historically, main stage produc-
tions are directed by a faculty member
or senior student pursuing a thesis.
Godspell is instead being performed by

1 members of Mindbending Productions.

“I’m excited by the opportunity,”
Wrﬂetts said “It can seem overwhelm-
ing, but I love the chance to see how a
complete production can come together.”

Over the past ﬁve years, Willetts
has acted or managed 35 productions. He previously di-
rected “You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown.”

This is the ﬁrst time that Mindbending Productions
has performed anything more complex than a one-act play.

Mindbending Productions is an undergraduate student
theater troup for those interested in theater, but do not have
the time to commit to a normal Theater Department play.

Starring freshmen Matthew Durham as Jesus and Jus-
tin Houston as John the Baptist/Judas, the ten members of
the cast have been rehearsing four or ﬁve days a week for
the past two months. '

Willetts estimates that he spends at least ten hours a
week on the production. On ‘Tech Week,’ the week prior to
opening,’ he estimates that he will spend ﬁve hours a day
on the musical.

“When I’m sitting center of the front aisle and hear the
audience applaud for the first time, then I can relax and
enjoy the show.”

Virginia votes for Democrat

Democrat Mark Warner won
VIrginia’s gubernatorial race last Tues-
day, beating Republican candidate
Mark Earley. Warner is the first Demo-
cratic candidate to be elected gover-
nor in Virginia in a dozen years, win-
ning the majority of votes in Lexing-
ton, Buena Vista and Rockbridge
County.

Democrat Tim Kaine was elected
lieutenant governor over Republican
Jay Katzen, while Republican Jerry
Kilgore took the attorney general po-
sition from Democrat Donald
McEachin.

/FC and Panhel winterize

local homes

Approximately 90 W&L frater-
nity and sorority members spent Sat-
urday, Nov. 3, helping needy area
residents winterize their homes and
save on forthcoming heating bills.
The students volunteered to hang
and seal plastic sheeting to the win-
dows of about 20 homes in
Rockbridge County. ~

UNDERTHESPEII.

I>IIorr0s BY Mrzc FF.RRARA/T/.Ic Ringtxm Pin‘

Frsrs or FURY. Hipnotized, junior Kanishka Thakur demonstrates his
martial arts skills at Tom DeLuca’s show last Friday. The Student Activies
Board event played to an almost full house.


may

Government ofﬁces closed to cel-
ebrate Veteran’s Day.

7 p.m.—Intemational Education
workshop. “How to market your ex-

perience.” Room 114, University -

Center.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ.
Poston Brown Project.
Tuesday,Nov.13

5 p.m.—Health Professions
Seminar. “Military Medical School
Admissions,” LTC Peter Stavish, as-
sistant dean for adrrrissions and aca-
demic records, University of the
Health Sciences, Bethesda Md.
Room 316, New Science Building,
VMI.

7 p.m.—Lecture. Meghan
Shanley, Miss Virginia 2001. Northen
Auditorium.

8 p.m.—Concert Guild. Borromeo
String Quartet. Lenfest Center.
Wednesday,Nov. 14.

7 p.m.—- International Per-
forming Arts Series 2001-2002.
Gamelan Wthatnala, a group per-
forming Balinese music, dance
and shadow puppetry. Lenfest
Center.

8 p.m.-«AA meeting. Fairfax
Lounge.

Friday, Nov. 16

Thanksgiving Break begins after
classes.
Thursday, Nov.22
Thanksgiving.
Monday,Nov.26
Classes resume.
'Ilresday,Nov.27

7 p.m.—-Endowed Professorship
Lecture. George Kester, W&L profes-
sor of managrnent, The Mamie Fox
'I‘wyman Martel Professorship. Recep-
tion to follow. Northen Auditorirun.
Wednesday, Nov.28 .

7:30 p.m.—Roots lecture. “Prophets
of Theosophy: The Spiritual Journeys of
Madame Blavatsky and Col. Olcott,”
GananathObeyesekere,Prinoet(mUniver-
sity.Nor1iIen Auditorium

8 p.m.—AA meeting. Fairfax
Lounge.

Friday, Nov.30

7:30 p.m.—FI1m Society. “Apoca-
lypse Now, Redux” (USA, 1979/2001),
directed by Francis Ford Coppola.
Troubadour Cinema.

8 p.m.—-Musical. “Godspell,” di-
rected by junior Neil Willetts. Pro-
duced by Mindbending Productions,
W&L student theater troupe; Johnson
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Saturday, Dec. 1

7:30 p.m.—-Fihn Society. “Apoca-
lypse Now, Redux” (USA, 1979/2001),
directed by Francis Ford Coppola.
Troubadour Cinema.

8 p.m.—-Musical. “Godspell,” di-
rected by junior Neil Willetts. Pro-
duced by Mindbending Productions,
W&L student theater troupe. Johnson
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

 

 

s. '- t."~i.‘-.

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001

TIIEl{I>;<_‘r'tir:IrI‘l}.eI:
STAEE EDITORIAL
Donn Counselors: D—hall’s
self—segregating minority

Dorm Counselors surround freshmen, their
tender charges, with love and support. At least
until they enter the Dining Hall.

There the previously solicitious upperclass-
men retreat to their isolated table, ﬂanked to
the rear by a wooden partition and buffered on
the side by the buffet table. Freshmen are ver-
boten, and when a first-year tresspasses, pen-
alties are created and enforced.

“I feel unwanted,” one freshman conﬁded
to a Phi staffer. “Why won’t (dorm counse-
lors) eat with us?”

When this question was posed to one of
these deliquent counselors, she answered that
she and her counterparts “like to eat with our
friends.”

Is this really a satisfactory answer?

Considering that dorm counselors receive
21 meals a week gratis, is it too much to ask
them to spend seven with their wards? After
all, upperclassmen socialization can take place
after eight p.m., when the freshmen leave for
one country house or the other.

It is admittedly true that Resident Assis-
tants are also frequent visitors to the Table of
Exclusion. But this is an entirely different
proposition. Few sophomores, juniors and se-
niors like to be seen with their “hall cops,” much
less regularly eat in the Dining Hall.

But freshmen are not hardened upperclass-
men. They are fresh and earnest, desperately
seeking the approval of their elders. They need
to know what accounting class to take or what
type of khakis to wear.

To deny them this vital exposure to their
betters is to injure the entire body collegiate.
Traditions cannot solely be passed on in the
classroom or on the playing ﬁeld. The bonding
that takes place while eating cannot be over-
rated.

Think of Laetitia Pate Evans, and the dis-
appointment she would feel if she knew dorm
counselors were routinely shirking their duties.
Like all mothers, she worries about her babies,
the freshmen. And if we can’t respect the per-
son for whom our premier eating establishment
is named, we have no right to call ourselves
gentlemen and ladies. , , ,

Eat with the freshmen, dorm counselors.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

YOU’RE PROBABLY GOING TO
SAY SOMETHING ABOUT MY
POINTY BRA.

—OVERLY-LIBERATED PHI ASSOCIATE EDITOR

THE 

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Layout Editor

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor

Matthew B. McDermott
Mike Agnello
Katie Howell
Alison Trinidad
Latrina Stokes
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latimer
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell
Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks

Paul Seifert
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry
Charlie Tonelli
Peter Djalaliev

Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager

Circulation Director
Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colurrms do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion-of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defun-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

THE Rl?.\‘=(3»~’l'UM PIII

PINIONS

Ashcroft undct libties

Have I ever mentioned that I think
Attorney General John Ashcroft is a
terrifying human being? He is terrify-
ing for only one reason: his politics.

In a move that shocked the
nation’s defense attorneys, their cli-
ents and civil libertarians, Ashcroft
armounced the Justice Department has
approved what will be known as the
“eavesdropping rule.” This will allow
the Justice Department to listen in on
conversations and monitor mailings
between lawyers and clients in federal
custody whenever deemed necessary
to prevent violence or terrorism.

Ashcroft armounced the plan in
conjunction with the decision’s writ-
ten release in the Federal Register on
October 31st. It reads as follows:
“(I)n those cases where the attorney
general has certiﬁed that reasonable
suspicion exists . . . this rule amends
the existing regulations to provide
that the Bureau is authorized to moni-
tor mail or communications with at-
torneys in order to deter such (vio-
lent or terrorist ) acts . . 

The rule took effect immediately,
without the usual waiting period for
public comment. The rule allows this
interception of communication, not
only in cases where a person has been
convicted of a crime, but even in cases
where a conviction has yet to be
made. It allows this interception be-
tween clients in custody and their at-
torneys for up to a year at a time.

This move from Ashcroft follows
the signing of the USA Patriot Act by
President Bush last week.

The Act gives the government a
freer hand to conduct searches, de-
tain or deport suspects, eavesdrop on
Internet communications, monitor ﬁ-
nancial transactions and obtain elec-
tronic records on indi-
viduals. All this was
accompanied with an
announcement by
Ashcroft on Novem-
ber 8, that there will be a reorganiza-
tion of the Justice Department and FBI
to concentrate on terrorism. I agree
with defense attorneys, their clients
and other political activists; how is
this not a gross violation of the attor-
ney client privilege? , _ .

Irwin Schwartz, president of the
National Association of Criminal De-
fense Lawyers, denounced this deci-
sion as “an abomination,” and said it
would be challenged in court at the
first available opportunity.

Moreover, immediately following
the armouncement, Senate Judiciary
Committee chairman Senator Patrick
Leahy (D—Vt.) fired a furious letter off
to Ashcroft. Leahy gave the Attorney
General a list of questions to be an-
swered by tomorrow, including the
constitutional basis for intercepting

Letters to the Editor

Capitalism doesn’t equal consen/atism

Dear Editor,

In his editorial “Conservatism wins war of ideas,”
Brett Kirwan claims that Lech Walesa, in his adddress to
the W&L community, armounced the end of history. That
is, a victory of conservatism over communism. Sadly,
Kirwan seems to have misinterpreted President Walesa

on several core points.

First, was the Cold War really an ideological struggle
between communism and conservatism? Capitalism has
prevailed, yes. But that is not the same as conservatism.
The latter is only one end of the political spectrum within

the capitalist system.

European style social democracy is not as such
conservative. But it is not communist either, what-
ever Kirwan might think. At the most, one could call
the free market system “classicly liberal,” to use
Kirwan’s words. And even that means stretching the

ICII11.

LEFT OF CENTER.
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

BREITT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS FDIIOR

EMAll;l<lRWANB@WlU.EDU

PHOTO lILUS'l'Rr\TIO.\' t‘\;\lDRF.\‘(' LA”il.\lF,R/ T/re Ring-tzw1P/Ji, photo courtesy USATOday.com

DISREGARD: AshcrOft’s decision eviscerates the Sixth Amendment.

attomey—client communications. The
letter also warned Ashcroft to expect
“prompt hearings on these matters.”

“I am deeply troubled at what ap-
pears to be an executive effort to ex-
ercise new powers without judicial
scrutiny or statutory authorization,”
Leahy wrote.

The Justice Department did not
respond to inquiries about Leahy’s
letter but has issued a statement de-
scribing the rule as a mere extension
of existing restrictions on certain in-
mates in terrorism-re-
lated cases. It also
tried to delegitirrnze
the problem by say-
ing “only 13 of
158,000 federal prisoners would be
affected.” The issue here is not num-
bers, but the gross violation of the
right to counsel, guaranteed by the
Sixth Amendment.

Schwartz commented, “If we
can’t speak with a client confiden-

tially, we may not speak with him at ‘

all. And if we can’t do that, the client
is stripped of his Sixth Amendment
right to have a lawyer.”

According to The Washington
Post, the Justice Department defends
its decision, stating it will set up “pro—
cedural safeguards” to protect the
right to counsel. Inmates and their at-
torneys will be notified “of the
government’s listening activities.”
Monitoring of communications is to
be done by a special “taint team” that
will not disclose what it hears to fed-

eral prosecutors or investigators with-
out approval by a federal judge.

The critics are not satisfied.
“Who’s going to be on the taint team?”
asked Kate Martin, director of the Cen-
ter for National Security Studies. She
does not see how information can be
processed without sharing it with oth-
ers also mulling over evidence.

The American Civil Liberties
Union’s national office released a
statement that was especially critical
on the eavesdropping on persons yet
to be convicted. “The idea that this
could be happening to innocent
people is really disturbing.” The
ACLU also went on to add that a
lawyer’s effectiveness could be dra-
matically hindered when the govem—
ment is peering over his shoulder. A
client may become fearful of disclos-
ing all that the attorney needs to know
to mount a forceful defense.

The question really is, how long
can Americans sit back and allow
Washington to take further advan-
tages of our basic liberties? There is a
huge difference between the protec-
tion of liberty and protection at the
cost of liberty. What is most frighten-
ing is the ease with which Ashcroft
implemented these plans with seem-
ingly no guilty conscious or concern
for their ramiﬁcations.

Ashcroft stood at a podium
adorned with the seal of the Depart-
ment of Justice featuring a picture of
Lady. Justice, fully unaware of what
these symbols really represent.

The Mullahs of Iran punish abortion by executing
both the women who have it performed, and those who

perform it. Champions of free trade they are not. Reversely,

dead.

no one would in earnest call pro—chioce Wall Street liber-
als like Jon Corzine socialist.

Thirdly, and most lamentably, how can Kirwan pro-
claim an end of history? Thus far, everyone who did
so was disproven by the same history he presumed

From Karl Marx to Francis Fukuyama, they were all
plain wrong. Even if international politics is moving in a
more conservative direction, that trend needs not con-
tinue indefinitely. And talking about U.S. taxes and abor-

tion laws does not established the existence of a global

still alive.

Secondly, does abortion have anything to do with

the victory of capitalism? Taxes and welfare may. But there
is no inherent connection between classical liberalism and

social conservatism.

    

 

“Because they’re hungover.” .

—-Shelby Stephens ‘05

TALlAcI<::  

Sincerely,

"Ihey are spoiled by major
college football at home.”
--Philip Watson, ‘02

 

“Because they are napping.”
--Catherine Torrey Stroud, ‘O5

trend in the first place.

If Kirwan really possesses the prophetic genius it
takes to explain world history, I bow down in respect. I
have no such claim to the title of Mind of the Century.
So until history proves otherwise, I assume that it is

Hendrik Puschmann ,‘05

See LETTERS, Page 3

 
  

 

“Because they are scared

of terrorist attack.”
--Eddie Eichler, ‘02

PAGE 3
Time warp traps
reflex, retro feminists

Recently, many friends and family have accused me
of being a woman-hating, sexist pig stuck in the dark
ages of male dominance and intolerance. They say I
want every woman to wear ankle—length dresses, speak
only when spoken to and exist solely as an object of
men’s desires. Nothing could be further from the truth.
However, I think it’s time for men to stand up and ﬁght
for what they’ve been losing for the past century—tl1e
leadership of society.

Men naturally lost much power after granting
women the right to vote in 1920. As with so many
other social issues, however, things went too far in
the 1960s. Pop music, always geared more toward
women, featured male stars singing “I Want to Hold
Your Hand” when they really wanted to do much more.

This seemingly innocent movement in the popu-
lar culture spawned a hideous beast: the feminist
movement. Men became the enemy of a bra—buming
feminist move-
ment that villified

any male display SLIRRERY SOAPBOX
or practice of

MIKE AGNELLO ‘02
power. Some even ”*““*“"1—”

went as far as to classify the act of sex itself as in-
herently violent and male—dominated. Women
fought for “rights” that are largely non—existent, like
the “right” to have a day—care center at their work-
place, or the “right” to take extra days off from work
for childcare. Any man will tell you that his boss
never once asked him if he needed time off to care
for his sick little ones, or to take them to a soccer
match. ‘ ’

Women deserve the same treatment. A sick child
might not be the mother’s fault, but it certainly is not
the employer’s. Being a man is hard, and being equal
to men necessarily means equal difficulty. Equal pay
for equal work should mean exactly that, with no
caveats.

Because of evolving social norms in the work-
place and the home, women are not equal to men;
they are superior. Women have choices that men sim-
ply do not have. Most states say that the right to
abort a child is the mother’s alone, excluding juve-
niles—who require only parental permission. Nothing
could be more chauvinistic.

' Women can sue, and usually win, lawsuits against
employers for sex discrimination if they aren’t promoted
as quickly—even though they often don’t spend nearly
as much time working if they decide to have a family.
The law also heavily favors women in custody and child
support cases. In many states, men are forced to pay
wife support (a.k.a. alimony) to ex-wives who make more
money thanthey do. Worse,rrich men who divorce with-
out a prenuptual agreement are forced to perpetuate their
ex-wives’ spoiled existence until the day they die. How
does being married to a rich man entitle you to a lifetime
of luxury? Those girls who move without interruption
from their father’s house to the sorority house to their
husband’s house should have a fourth stop—the poor
house.

Many women justiﬁably complain about the lack
of gentlemanly manners in modern society. But what
caused this? The idea of showing extra respect for
women is derived from archaic ideas about their infe-
riority. Because women were smaller and physically
weaker, they were assumed to have less intelligence
and backbone, and required extra courtesy and defer-
ence. Why should we be surprised that this defer-
ence has been thrown to the dogs in our “enlight—
ened” era of equality? There’s nothing wrong with
traditional manners, and there’s nothing wrong with
equal treatment. Just don’t expect the two to always
go hand-in—hand.

Feminists, in defense of their radical proposals,
say they are trying to “empower” women. Empower
them to do what, and for whom? To kill unborn chil-
dren? To bring the machine of capitalism to a grinding
halt with their expensive and ridiculous demands in the
workplace? To force an exaggerated notion of equality
that (so far) is unjustiﬁable morally, ethically and logis-
tically?

The bottom line: where women have choices,
men have responsibilities. In keeping with this
gross inequity in our society, men should take re-
sponsibility for their brethren and enforce true gen-
der justice.

Women and men are equal? Fine. Let’s start re-
quiring 18-year old girls to sign up for the draft.
Women can alternate door-holding duties with men.
Women who murder can get the death penalty just as
often as their male counterparts. Men can abandon
their tedious, old-fashioned duties of being the pri-
mary provider. Sound ridiculous? You bet it does.
But American society is drawing dangergously close
to this model. Pull your bra out of the fire, sista friend———
the war is over.

 

“I don’t know, I don’t

usually come.”
--Dave Kodack, ‘O2

’ V.

I

  

 

PAGE 3

Uriuions

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001;

Voting: Both pleasure ad duty

Riciiiiiiiiié
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05

Last Tuesday, I took a big
step in my life: I voted for the
first time. I walked into the Lex-
ington Fire Station, showed the
election judge my voter registra-
tion card, and headed to the bal-
lot machine to cast my vote. I
share this little anecdote not to
announce to the world that I
voted for the first time, but to
celebrate democracy.

As corny as it sounds, when
I walked out of the fire station
into the fresh air, the first thing I
saw was the American ﬂag flying
high. I felt proud. Proud not so
much for going through a rite of
passage, but for what that rite of
passage stands for.

I thought how wonderful it is
that Ijust went and exercised my
franchise as a free citizen of the
United States of America. No-
body stood outside telling me
whom do vote for,‘ nor did any-
body criticize me for my vote af-
terward. Instead, I was free to
know that I played as equal a role
in our democracy as any other
voter in this country. ,

This is certainly not the case
in Afghanistan, which as I write
we are bombing because its gov-
ernment does not share the same
ideals, and instead, believes in op-
pressing its citizens and support-
ing terrorists, for reasons un-
known to anyone else—it is cer-
tainly not for Islam.

Nor is it the case in count-
less other countries around the
world. Even in relatively “free”
countries like Singapore, a
model society in Southeast
Asia, the government coerces
its citizens into voting for the
“right” par.ty—the one already
in power.

No, in America, and a hand-
ful of other countriesin the

CELEBRATE AMERICA: Taken in 1945,
this picture captures the emotion and
dignity of these Americans too-long
denied, and at long last granted, their

world, we can be proud that we
are truly free. Our political sys-
tem may not
be free of
corruption,
because no
government
is perfect.
We may not
always have
model politi-
cians, but at
least we can
exercise our minds freely.

This has not always been
the case. Women were not al-

No, in America, and a handful of
other countries in the world, we can
be proud that we are truly free. Our
political system rnay not be free of
corruption, because no government is
perfect.

right to vote. Would that all Americans
recognize this all—important sacrament
of our civic religion is a rare privilege
rather than a inconvenience.

lowed to vote in this country
until 1920; Blacks did not have
totally free
access to
the polls un-
til the 1960s.
Now, all are
free and wel-
come to
vote. We did
not arrive at
this liberty
by chance,
however. The freedoms we en-

joy today are the result of hard

work and dedication by men and

women devoted to the principle
that all humans are created equal
and have the same right to be
free as any other.

Today, America is involved in
yet another war for liberty. Although
it is very different from any other war
we have ever fought, I encourage
you to be grateful for the freedoms
we have. Do not take them for
granted. Millions of men and women,
from the War for Independence to
the Gulf War, have made the ultimate
sacrifice to protect our right to vote.
Many more may die in our war on
terrorism.

Even here, in idyllic Lexing-
ton, Virginia, we must not assume
that we are free from harm. While
chances of anything happening
here are slim to none, we must be
thankful that we have a strong
leader in President Bush and his
administration, vocal representa-
tives from both sides of the aisle in
Congress and trusted men and
women in every other elected of-
fice in this land.

This is only the case be-
cause we exercise our freedom
and our rights. We must con-
tinue to do so. No matter what
happens in the world—be it war,
famine, or chaos—we must in-
sist that our rights always be
preserved. No citizen should
avoid participation because he
doesn’t think his voice means
anything.

It does.

Maybe one vote doesn’t really
count, but you bet that the non-
votes of 100,000 people who think
the same way do—just ask a Flo-
ridian. Your congressman might not
listen when you write to him per-
sonally, but he does when a lot of
people write in to say the same
thing.

Nothing can be taken for
granted in this crazy world of ours,
not even freedom. So let it ring, and
let it ring loud.

God bless America

Economics professor
assigns anti-Kinivan homework

LETTERS from page 2

Nobel laureates work

refutes Kinuan’s logic

Dea.rEditor,

A reading of Brett Kirwan’s
“Sweatshops Make Cents” left us
awed at the blatant lack of eviden-
tiary support of his apparent the-
sis that, “It is simply ridiculous to
believe that sweatshops can be
eliminated in countries whose
populations are uneducated, un-
skilled and looking for work.”
Though Kirwan argues that it is the
USAS’s “embarrassing lack of eco-
nomic sense” which drives their
anti-sweatshop sentiment, it is clear
that the columnist himself has not
fully explored this social science,
most noticeably the ﬁeld of Devel-
opment Economics.

Kirwan cites sweatshops as “an
important step in a nation’s devel-
opment” for the opportunity they
provide. However, Nobel laureate of
economics Amartya Sen in his book
Development as Freedom argues
that the most critical factor in a
nation’s development is the avail-
ability of civil, political and social
freedoms and the necessary institu-
tions to protect these freedoms.’
Clearly, the working conditions,
hours of work and rniserly wages
that exist in sweatshops not only
identify currently lacking freedoms
but also continue to prevent sweat-
shop workers from attaining free-
doms.

For instance, children forced to
work in sweatshops are deprived
from the choice of education. It is
ridiculous to argue sweatshops are
needed to enhance development,
because the development of a coun-
try is largely dependant upon edu-
cation. As stated by Schultz, “The
decisive factors of production in
improving the welfare of poor people

are not space, energy, and cropland;
the decisive factors are the improve-
ment in population quality and ad-
vances in knowledge.”

The USAS may not be the
naive economist in this case.

Sincerely,

Paisley Boney ‘02
Scott Hetterman ‘03
Jeremy Kirkland ‘02
Allison Shank ‘03

Sli/eatshopsdorftmakesense

Dear Editor,

We are writing to you in re-
sponse to Brett Kirwan’s article,
“Sweatshops Make Cents.” First, we
are confused by Kirwan’s argument
that sweatshops are a means for de-
velopment, and his failure to address
the presence of sweatshops in de-
veloped countries such as the U.S.

Kirwan fails to provide any
sources to back up his argument. Nobel
prize winning economist, Amartya Sen
has much to say against sweatshops
as the means for development. Sen
sees Freedom as the means and ends
of development. Surely sweatshops
reduce one’s freedom.

He says “28 cents beats zero
any day of the week,” but do these
workers have a choice? The US. has
a minimum wage, but these devel-
oping nations do not have such
laws; should the U.S. provide mini-
mum wage to workers that its com-
panies employ abroad? Would we
as Americans be willing to pay ,a
couple of extra dollars on clothes in
order to assure that sweatshops are
eliminated and people have wages
they can live on? 1

Sincerely,

Courtenay Fisher ‘02
Stacy McLoughlin ‘02
Andrew B amett ‘02
Emily Owens ‘O2
Rusty Hewit ‘02

Model United Nations

POSTONBROWN PROJECT

An all W&L Student and

Alumni Band
9:00 p.m.
C-school
Room 221

  Be fher-e_ Java at the 

Monday, November 12
8:30 P.M.-midnight

Fraternities * Sororities *
Clubs * Studente Groups

Earn $l000—$2000 this semester with the
easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour
fundraising event. Does not involve credit
card applications. Fundraising dates are
filling quickly, so call today! Contact

; Campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.
campusfundraiser.com

As ever, our individually made hot chocolate and
specialty coffee drinks will be available.

coffee people music more

 

 

iWatson, Sullivan break school records;
defense forces 5 turnovers in blowout win

, BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
1 SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee racked up 493 yards of total of-
fense and forced ﬁve turnovers en route to a 46-14 win
over Greensboro Saturday at Wilson Field to conclude
the 2001 season.

Fifth—year senior Marc Watson broke the W&L career
rushing record, ﬁnishing at 3,112 yards. His Saturday to-
tals included 142 yards on 21 carries and two touchdowns.

“It was a great way to ﬁnish Marc’s career,” Generals
coach Frank Miriello said. “To think he was on the verge
_'Of not even coming back to play this year, it’s very appre-
ciative to Marc to come back and play the way he has.

7 “Records are not important to Marc; he doesn’t even think
.about those things. I’m pleased for him that he’s broken that
record. He’s been a tremendous asset to this program.”

Senior Chris Shortall, who picked off Greensboro
quarterback Tommy Waters twice and also blocked a

punt, expressed the emotions of himself and his class-

mates .

_ “I’ve been thinking about this game for a long time,
and I’m surprised it happened now,” Shortall said. “It feels
weird to thank that I don’t have a next year. I’m real proud
of this team, and it’s nice to ﬁnish on top like that.”

Junior Chris Sullivan broke a record of his own, ending

‘ the 2001 campaign with a best—ever 2,024 all—purpose yards.
A Sullivan ran for 118 yards and three touchdowns and re-

turned a punt 71 yards to the Greensboro 2-yard line.
“When you win your last game, it’s always a stepping

1 stone in the right direction, especially when we have high
M expectations for next season,” Sullivan said. “A win’s al-
1 ways good to end on.”

The Generals had little trouble with the Pride (5-5)
on either side of the football. Greensboro didn’t pick

.up a first down until the 9:01 mark of the second

quarter, and had just 63 offensive yards in the first
half.
Watson scored his first TD on the Generals’ first

‘offensive possession, giving them a 7-0 lead that
1-lasted until the end of the first quarter. Sullivan

L scored on the first play of the second period for a 14--

‘ 0 cushion.

Shortall’s blocked punt led to another Sullivan touch-

1 down with 6:34 left before the half. The junior would

score once more later in the quarter, and a two-point

. conversion pushed the lead to 29-0 with 21 seconds left.

But a Jason Layman kickoff return set up the Pride at the

it W&L 35-yard line with 10 seconds remaining, and Waters

Generals win ODAC home, away openers
1 Women’s swim team knocks off Sweet Briar at home
before traveling to Randolph-Macon for a road victory

 

TiiE1liiE\;Et"§~Tl,’i\vtl Par

jEREv1i’fRNnlll
SPORTS EDITOR
EMAIL FRANKllN]@\XlU.E)U

PORTS

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

found George Washington for a 20-yard TD strike one play
later to cut the advantage to 29-7.

Senior Brad Wiginton accounted for the only points of
the third quarter, hitting a 32-yard ﬁeld goal with 5:26 left.
The kick, which followed an interception by classmate Jeff
Powell, was Wiginton’s 12th of the season, extending his
school record.

Another senior, fullback Kyle Overstreet, pushed
W&L’s advantage to 39-7 with 13:00 left in the game on a

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

This week saw a pair of easy Old
Dominion Athletic Conference wins
for the Washington and Lee Women’s
swimming team.

Wednesday night brought Sweet
Briar to Twombly Pool for a 155-94
Generals’ victory, and Saturday mom-
ing, the Generals traveled to
Randolph-Macon for a 170-74 win.

Wednesday night brought out the
best in the team. Senior Katie Kennedy
swam a season best in the 1,000
freestyle, and a career best in the 100
fly. Classmate Laura Ingoldsby
brought back a pair of wins and sea-
son best times in the 200 and 500
freestyle events.

Junior Michelle Moore made a sea-
son-best time in the 200 backstroke,

  

LEXINGTON-
_QQFJ?..£Er

.‘.:"r:'.a‘.vr:r.;.'.fuEi-if :'.'-:},r.v:.‘-|J':1'.r..r‘.I:’;-

along with a win. Senior Anne
Lachiewicz won the 100 and 200 breast-
stroke, garnering a career—best time in

t\‘LlR\' GUY/i The K/rig-tzrrrr Phi
1 CONFERENCE WIN: Sophomore Erin Dougherty swims in Washington and Lee’s
‘ 155-94 ODAC win over Sweet Briar at the Twombly Pool on Wednesday.

   

  
 

elC*UU5'l'lC MLHJC Vn".E|JNE5D.I'u.'Y MCIRNINGS 3 [.551 -9 iS|[
ESPRESSO ' CAP!’-IJCCJNU *lFR.E.8H ROASTEDCDFFEES -FJNETEAS
9 WE5'I'W:§.SH.INGT(J.\' STREET * I..CBK.Ii‘u'G'IUl'~'! - I16-3-6385

SEASON FINALE:
(Left) Senior
Brad Wiginton
watches his 32-
yard ﬁeld goal
attempt sail
through the
uprights in
Washington and
Lee’s 46-14 win
over Greensboro
on Saturday at
Wilson Field.
(Below) Senior
]effBahl receives
the Gary Fallon
Award at
halftime. (Photos
by Mary Guy/
The Rz'ng—fu77z Pbz)

1-yard TD plunge. Watson’s 41-yard touchdown run less
than ﬁve minutes later made it 46-7.

Miriello credited the play of his defense, which limited
the Pride to 200 yards of total offense.

“We were focused this week to come back and make a
statement about how well we can play on defense,”
Miriello said. “We were determined to put our best foot
forward —-— to end the season in a way to let people know
that we are on our way defensively.”

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001

&L ends sen wih 46-14 rbing of Greensboro

Generals look ahead to 2002 season

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
' SPORTS EDITOR

At the end of September, Washington and Lee’s foot-
ball season was close to disaster status.

After losing in the ﬁnal seconds to Randolph-Macon,
the Generals were 1-3 with Catholic, Hampden-Sydney,
Bridgewater and Emory and Henry — teams that beat W&L
by a combined 154-48 in 2000 — still on the schedule.

“I remember being 1-3 and thinking the season could
really go downhill fast if we let it,” senior defensive back
Chris Shortall said. “Luckily, we were able to turn it around,
and we had a great ﬁnish this season. These guys are
really young, and they’ve got a big future for them.”

W&L split those four games, adding non-conference
wins against Sewanee and Greensboro to ﬁnish 5-5. Their
3-3 record in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference placed
them in a four-way tie for second place.

More importantly, W&L was competitive in every ODAC
game. Bridgewater, the No. 4 team in the country, had to
go to overtime to beat the Generals, and W&L had fourth
quarter leads in their other two conference losses.

“It shows that we can play with the best teams,” sopho-
more quarterback Peter Dean said of the 2001 season.
“Bridgewater will go on and probably get to the national
semiﬁnals, and we could have easily won that game. It
just shows that we can play with any of these teams.”

The Generals will return most of their starters in 2002.
Junior running back Chris Sullivan, who rushed for 1,189
yards and eight touchdowns this season, believes his team
will have a shot at W&L’s ﬁrst ODAC title since 1985.

“We deﬁnitely have a shot at winning this conference
next season and going to the playoffs,” Sullivan said. “We’ ve
got a good returning nucleus. People better watch out.”

W&L coach Frank Miriello isn’t declaring his team the
conference favorite for next year, but he does expect his
team to improve upon this season.

“I’d like to think we can make a move a little bit,” Miriello
said. “We’ve broken through that banier into the upper
level of the ODAC. Hopefully, we can have a great recruit-
ing year and a great offseason, and come back and make a
run at a little higher ﬁnish.”

Dean, who completed 14-of-23 passes for 177 yards
against the Pride, believes that Saturday’s win will carry
over into next season.

“Last season at this point, the disappointing loss to
Swarthrnore had us questioning how good we are,” Dean
said. “This year, we can see that we’ve gotten better every
single game, and this is kind of the peak of it. This should
give us momentum, and we should have guys working harder
in the offseason. We can see we’re right there.”

CORRECTION

the 200, and freshman Laura

The following errors appeared in last week’s edition of the Phi:

Jeremy Kirkland is a senior, not a junior.

The article on the W&L presidential search process was written
by Peter Quackenbush, not Michael Lee.

Westerman won the 200 individual
medley with a season-best time. Fresh-
man Eleanor Williams put up a season-
best time in winning the 100 backstroke.

Coach Kiki Moore was very
pleased with the meet.

“We had a lot of people swimming
different events than they usually do,
and I think some were very surprised
at how well they did,” Moore said.

Saturday morning, the Generals
visited another ODAC foe in
Randolph-Macon. Junior Kelli Aus-
tin won the 50 and 100 freestyle, while
Kennedy won the 100 breaststroke
and the 200 individual medley.

The Generals’ 200 medley relay,
composed of Austin, Kennedy, Moore
and Williams, cruised to a win, as did
the 200 freestyle relay, made up of Aus-
tin, Moore, Williams and Westennan.

W&L’s Women’s swimming returns
to action Tuesday with a 6:30 p.m.
meet at Hollins.

The Ring-tum Phi
wishes a happy
Thanksgiving to the
Washington and Lee
community. In honor
of the festivities, the
Phi will take a week off
from publication and
will resume at regular
printing schedule on

December 3.

  

The staff
turkey and bl

the PI7

 
 
 
 

it gr

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2001



PAGE 5

Volleyball flls to Emory in 2nd round of NCAA tourney

Generals beat Christopher
Newport to advance to
semiﬁnals of South Regional

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

SAN ANTONIO, Texas—The
Washington and Lee volleyball
team advanced to the second round
of the NCAA Tournament before
falling to No. 2 seed Emory in the
NCAA South Regional Friday at
Trinity University.

The No. 3 Generals (30-5) set a
new school record for wins with a
30-21, 30-15, 30-15 win over Chris-
topher Newport in Thursday’s open-
ing round.

Senior Leslie Fischbeck had 12
kills and two blocks for W&L, and
classmate Lindsay Ruckert finished
with nine kills, six digs and six aces.
Junior Stacey Kimmel totaled nine
kills, nine digs and seven aces, and
freshman Jennifer Lux added 31 as-
sists.

“Leslie played really well in
the first round match,” W&L
coach Bryan Snyder said. “She

Grapplers open with VMI invite

Morse wins for 3rd straight year as W&L begins season against Division I schools

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wres-
tling team began its 2001-02 sea-
son by competing in the VMI
Keydet Wrestling Invitational on
Sunday.

Due to renovation conﬂicts, the
Generals hosted the 10-teain compe-
tition, which includes mostly Division
I schools, for the second consecutive
year. Another constant at this year’s
competition was the dominance of
senior Ezra Morse.

Morse won his third straight
championship at the 197-pound
weight class at the VMI Invitational,
capping his day with a 3-2 victory
over Matt Bishop of Cumberland
College.

In earlier action, Morse whipped
through the quarterfinals with a 7-
2 win over Tim Gutierrez of Ander-
son College, then followed with a
solid 4-0 victory over Mike Yetter
of Old Dominion University in the
semis.

“Ezra was the standout today,”
coach Gary Franke said.

Other highlights included a
fourth-place finish in the 184-pound
class by sophomore Joe Mueller.
Mueller, a national qualifier last sea-
son, lost the consolation champion-
ship, 6-5, to Josh Muncy of
Cumberland.

“Joe came up with a fourth—place
ﬁnish, but was still disappointed with
giving up a five-point swing and los-

FIIE PHOTO
TEAM EFFORT: Senior Lindsay Ruckert (3) prepares to atmck a ball
in W&L’s ODAC championship win over Roanoke on Nov. 3
as (from left) freshmen Emily Wolﬁng andjerinifer Lux, junior

Generals were eliminated by Emory in the second round of the
NCAA South Regional.

was the biggest player on the
floor, and she took advantage of
that. Lindsay did what she al-
ways does. She was a big factor
like always.

“Stacey Kimmel really stepped up her
play, and she probably had her best match
of the year against Christopher Newport”

For the No. 6 Captains (24-11),
Lindsey Sheppard had seven kills and

six digs, and Nina Richardson con-
tributed 18 assists.

Emory, which received a bye in the
first round, ended W&L’s season on
Friday with a 30-26, 30-23, 30-23 vic-

Stacey Kimmel and sophomore Kari Lassen look on. The .

tory. Kim Ralm paced the Eagles with
12 kills and 10 digs, and Caitlin Crafts
had 38 assists.

Despite the loss, Snyder was
pleased with the play of his
squad.

“Everybody played well,” he said.
“We played real well as a team. It was
a great year, a good experience for ev-
eryone involved.”

Ruckert added to her Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference record with
11 kills, adding six digs and three
aces. The three-time ODAC Player
of the Year finished her career with
1,519 kills.

Ruckert wasn’t the only senior
with a say in the record books.
Fischbeck recorded 12 kills in 19 at-
tempts, ending the season with a
.386 hitting percentage, the best in
W&L history.

Kimmel contributed eight kills,
eight digs and three aces against
Emory. Lux had 31 more assists,
and fellow freshman Emily Wolf-
ing chipped in six kills and nine
digs.

Snyder believed that statistics
didn’t tell the story of the weekend,
particularly with the play of Wolf-
mg.

“(The freshmen) stepped up and

played really well, especially Emily
Wolfing,” Snyder said. “She passed
the ball great, she played good de-
fense, and she probably had her best
back-to-back matches on blocking
this weekend.”
, To repeat as Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference champions and re-
turn to the NCAA Tournament, the
Generals must overcome the loss
of a talented group of seniors:
Fischbeck, Ruckert, Lee
Charbonnet, Sara Heusel and Lizzy
Swann.

“The senior class is just unbe-
lievable,” Snyder said. “They’ve
made tremendous impacts on the
program. They’ve really been in-
strumental in elevating the program
to where it is now.”

But W&L returns a talented
group with enough experience to
return to the South Regional, and
Snyder hopes that next year’s
freshmen will immediately contrib-
ute to the team.

“We’ve got to build on what we
did,” he said. “We’ll see what we do
through the recruiting class. Getting
to the second roundof the NCAA is
definitely going to help that.”

SCOREBOARD

 

Greensboro 0 7 0 7
W&L 7 22 3 14
First Quarter

W&L —- Watson 13 run (Wiginton kick), 8:38
Second Quarter
W&L — Sullivan 12 run (Wiginton kick), 14:51

SATuRDAY’s FOOTBALL YARDLINE
W&L 46, Greensboro 14

-46

Tuesday, Nov. 13

.- 14 Women’s Swimming
W&L at Hollins, 6:30 p.m.

Friday, Nov. 16
Men’s Basketball
W&L vs. Haverford

W&L SCHEDULEZ Nov. 13-DEC. 3

Men’s Basketball
Greensboro at W&L, 3 p.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 27 V
Women’s Swimming
RMWC at W&L, 6:30 p.m.

ing a close one in the last match,”
Franke said.

In the 174-—pound class, senior Ivan
Zdanov ﬁnished with a 2-2 record, despite
getting banged up during the matches.
Zdanov defeated Chris Wilkes of
Cumberland 7-3, then later defeated team-
mateJason Srneeinthe consolation round.

In addition, senior Ben Segal at the
125—pound class, sophomore Corey
Little at 149 and junior Alex Poor at 165
all wrapped up one victory on the day.

Segal won in his ﬁrst consolation
match, defeating Mike Johnson of
Cumberland 6-3. Poor defeated Cory
Engelhard of VMI 5-3, also in his first
consolation match.

 

IVIARY Grwl THE RING-Ttlll PHI
TEAM EFFORT: Sophomore Corey Litde attempts to escape from an opponent in
the 149-pound ﬂight of the VMI Keydet Invitational Sunday at W&L.

Little won his first match of the day
with a pinfall on Wendell Davis of
UNC—Greensboro at 5:30.

Franke, who began his 29th season
as head wrestling coach for the Gener-
als on Saturday, saw the invitational
as a way to gain some experience and
prepare for the upcoming season.

“I thought it was beneficial to face
some good competition,” Franke said.
“It provides a good indication of where
we are, but it’s not ahuge test this early.”

The Generals return to the prac-
tice mat for the next three weeks be-
fore traveling to Pennsylvania to par-
ticipate in the Scranton Invitational
on Dec. 1.

Coming to the Phi sports pages on Dec. 3:

-A preview of the 2001 -02 wrestling season
-Coverage of basketball, swimming and track

   

What time is it?

It s PHI time!

EVERY MONDAY AT 7:00 P.M., COME TO 31 WASHINGTON ST. TO WORK FOR VV&L’S ONLY NEWSPAPER WITH LAYOUT!

W&L — Sullivan 3 run (Wiginton kick), 6:34
W&L — Sullivan 4 run (Wilson pass from Dean), 0:21
GC —- Washington 20 pass from Waters (Naglee kick), 0:00
Third Quarter
W&L —— Wiginton FG 32, 5:26
Fourth Quarter
W&L —- Overstreet 1 run (Wiginton kick), 13:00
W&L — Watson 41 run (Wiginton kick), 8:17
GC — Caldwell 2 run (Naglee kick), 0:40

A — 1,053

GC W&L
First downs 11 24
Rushes-yards 35-85 53-316
Passing yards 115 177
Return yards 129 107
Comp-att-int 9-27-3 14-23-0
Sacked-yards lost 1-13 0-0
Punts-avg 8-33.6 2-35.0
Fumbles-lost 4-1 2-2
Penalties-yards 4-28 1-10
Time of possession 27:36 32:24

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSH|NG—GC: Caldwell 8-50, T. Lewis 12-27, Washington 2-12,
Powell 1-8, Scarborough 3-7, Louis 2-2, 0. Lewis 1-(-1), Waters 6-(-

20). W&L: Watson 21-142, Sullivan 21-118, Rapoza 1-15, Overstreet 3-

13, Archie 4-11, Dean 1-10, Caramore 2-7.

PASSlNG—GC: Waters 8-22-3 105, Durham 1-4-0 10, C. Lewis 0-
1-0 0. W&L: Dean 14-23-0 177.

RECE|V|NG—GC: Brown 3-68, McAuley 2-14, Washington 1-20,
Horton 1-10,‘ Wilder 1-3, Louis 1-0. W&L: Watson 5-74, Thomas 4-68,
Rankin 2-20, Overstreet 1-13, Sullivan 1-7, Wilson 1-(-5).

MISSED FIELD GOALS—W&L: Wiginton 46.

FINAL ODAC FOOTBALL STANDINGS

Conference Overall
Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
Bridgewater 6 0 276 126 9 0 403 173
Emory and Henry 3 3 135 124 5 5 212 187
Washington and Lee 3 3 153 127 5 5 240 241
Hampden-Sydney 3 3 198 179 5 5 296 273
Guiltord 3 3 104 172 4 6 161 259
Randolph-Macon 2 4 108 196 4 6 201 298
Catholic 1 5 127 177 3 7 204 253

Nov. 10 Results

W&L 46, Greensboro 14

Hampden-Sydney 38,
Randolph-Macon 26

Guiltord 17, Emory and Henry 7
Bridgewater 55, Catholic 13

End Regular Season

(at Swarlhmore), 6 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 17

Cross Country

NCAA Nationals (at Augustana
College, III.)

Men’s Basketball

W&L vs. Swarthmore
(at Haverford), 1 p.m.

Women’s Swimming

W&L at Swarthmore, 2 pm

Sunday, Nov. 18
Men’s and Women’s Swimming
W&L at Gettysburg, 12 p.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 20
Men’s Basketball
Wesley at W&L, 1 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 24
Women’s Basketball
Mcwilliams Classic

W&L at Washington, 3 p.m.

Sunday, Nov. 25
Women’s Basketball
W&L in Mcwilliams Classic, TBA

Wednesday, Nov. 28
Men’s Basketball

W&L at William and Mary, 7 p.m.

Women’s Basketball
W&L at Lynchburg, 7 p.m.

Friday, Nov. 30
Men’s Swimming
VMI at W&L, 7 p.m.
Women’s Swimming
Radford at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Dec. 1
Wrestling
W&L at Scranton Tournament,
9 a.m.
Indoor Track
W&L at VMI, TBA
Men’s Basketball
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 3 p.m.
Women’s Basketball

Randolph-Macon at W&L, 4 p.m.j

Sunday, Dec. 2
Men’s Basketball

W&L at Virginia Wesleyan, 3 pm,

Women’s Basketball
W&L at Guiltord, 4 p.m.

W&L ODAC AWARD WINNERS

Following are Washington and Lee
recipients of Old Dominion Athletic
Conference postseason awards,
as voted on by coaches:

FIELD HOCKEY

Second Team

Kelly Tafte, sophomore
Honorable Mention
Kitt Murphy, freshman

MEN’s SOCCER

Player of the Year
Paul Wallace, senior
First Team

Brad Murphy, junior
Paul Wallace, senior
Second Team

Tim Foley, junior

Philip Miller, sophomore
Jacob Stoehr, sophomore
Honorable Mention
Rick Schnatz, senior

WoMEN’s SOCCER
First Team
Kate Bldwell, senior
Meghan Hayde, sophomore
Fontaine Marcoux, sophomore I
Honorable Mention
Heather Coleman, sophomore
Lindsay Duran, junior
Kelly Zagol, freshman

VOLLEYBALL

Player of the Year

Lindsay Ruckert, senior
Rookie of the Year

Jennifer Lux, freshman

Coach of the Year

Bryan Snyder, second season
First Team

Lindsay Ruckert, senior
Second Team

Leslie Fischbeck, senior

 

Sﬁoiis

 

MONDAY, Noiitamm i2..2.Q.01..

omen’s basketball boasts veteran squad in 2001-02

(42) will lead the Generals in 2001-02.

Generals look forward to underdog role

Men's basketball team prepares to turn program around despite /ast-p/ace prediction in conference

B_Y JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For the Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team, a new season pre-
sents what should be the first step to
turning around the program.

The Generals suffered through a
4-20 season, 4- l4 in the Old Don1in-
ion Athletic Conference, last year.
Third—year coach Jeff Lafave be-
lieves his team, which returns no se-
niors and boasts eight freshmen,
will have no trouble getting over
2000-01.

“Theres a totally new team,”
Lafave said. “The majority of our team
are new people. Any time you intro-
duce new people, it’s going to bring a
new attitude."

W&L enters 2001-02 with low
expectations from outside, as the
preseason conference coaches’
poll has them last in the l0-team
league. Sophomore guard Michael
Denbow, who joins classmate
Hamill Jones and junior Jake
McAlister as captains. says his
team will benefit from the less—than-
alorifying prediction.

  
   

CUUKIFJYOFSl’OKIS l_\‘R)R\t-\'il0N
THIRD-HEAR COACH:_]€:ffl_.afaV€ hopes his
Generals will improve on their 4-20 record,
including a 4-14 mark in the ODAC.

COLKIF$YOFSPOKISli\K)R.\|.\llOl\
W&L’s VETERANS: Seniors Megan Babst and Carter Thomas

play.

BY DAVE CROWELL

ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Experience and veteran leadership will be key for
the 2001-02 Washington and Lee women’s basketball
team, as they hope to return to the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament after last season’s
disappointing finish and absence from postseason

Janet Hollack returns for her second season as head
coach, hoping to improve on an 8-16 record last year. With
the loss of no seniors and the return of key players, the
record will undoubtedly improve.

Like last year, Hollack will look to senior forward and
co—captain Jessica Mentz and senior center Megan Babst
to shoulder the offensive load and lead the team.

Mentz hopes to improve on her fantastic 2000-01 sea-
son, when she earned First Team All-ODAC honors and
demolished 14 school records, most notably the all-time
scoring record (1,223) and scoring average in a season
record (20.7 points per game).

In addition, Mentz averaged a double-double on the
season, chipping in 10.1 rebounds per game.

Babst achieved a breakthrough season, dominating the
paint while also averaging a double-double on the sea-
son. She recorded 15.7 points per game and led the ODAC I
with 11.9 rebounds an outing en route to garnering a spot

on the Honorable Mention All-ODAC team.

“We know that we haven’t done
anything to garner respect,” Denbow
said.-“We know we’re the underdogs,
and we kind of relish that role. We
know we have to sneak up on people.”

With such a large group of fresh-
men, Lafave admits that this will be a
rebuilding year. But he doesn’t be-
lieve that relegates his club to the
conference cellar.

“You can expect some growing
pains,” Lafave said. “But we hope to
make the ODAC Tournament. I think
that’s a legitimate expectation. If we
can get this team in the tournament
and win a game, that will be a tremen-
dous year.”

The Generals should beneﬁt from the
return of junior Scott Hetterrnann, who
missed the ﬁnal six games of last year for
a violation of team rules. Hetterrnarm led
W&L with 11.9 points per game and a
51.9 percent clip from the ﬁeld.

“He brings a kid down low that is
physically ready to play in the paint,"
Lafave said of the 6-foot—4
Hettermann. “He is effective around
the basket, so we’ll put him down in
there again and try to get him the ball
where he can be successful.”

Captains Chad Braley and Will
Ballard — tied for second in W&L scor-
ing at 10.4 a game — graduated, leav-
ing a void in the backcourt. No one
won the starting jobs in preseason
practice, perhaps part of Lafave’s strat-
egy: the coach hopes to have eight
men to rotate in and out of the lineup.

Joining Hetterrnarm down low will
be the 6-4 Jones, the 6-5 McAlister
and 6-2 junior Toussaint Crawford.
With the lack of a true big man in the
post, the guards become that much
more important.

“We have to handle the ball, limit
our turnovers, and we have to shoot
the ball,” Denbow said. “We have to
look at our big men as being a bonus.
We’re going to have to have the best
guard play to be successful.”

Any success the Generals have
will come in one of the tougher Divi-
sion III conferences in the nation.

FRONTCOURT GENERALs:jur1ior co—captain]ake i\/lcAlisrer  and classmate Scott
Hettermann will see playing time in the post for \‘V"'&L.

Harnpden-Sydney, the preseason fa-
vorite to win the ODAC, is a national
contender, while Randolph-Macon
and Roanoke are no pushovers.

But Lafave hasn't circled any dates
on his schedule.

“We look forward to playing ev-
erybody,” he said. “Every team we
play right now, we have to make sure
we’re ready to go."

The coach is teaching teamwork,
the lack of which may have hurt the
Generals a season ago. Win or lose,
chemistry is W&L’s top priority.

“I expect our team, number one, to
stay together,” Lafave said. “We’ve

“Both on and off the court, Mentz and Babst are the
leaders,” Hollack said. “Not only are they the most talented
players, but their work ethic is the mainstay of this team.”

The veteran leadership should extend past the
frontcourt, with Sarah Schmidt and co-captain Carter Tho-
mas, both seniors,«supplementing Mentz and Babst.

Hollack sees Schmidt playing an important role, provid-
ing support at the guard position while helping on the boards,
in addition to displaying experience and leadership.

Thomas, the starting point guard on a team that im-
ished 6-14 in ODAC play last season, will feel a shift in
responsibility on this year’s squad.

“Carter will deﬁnitely have a different role this year,”
Hollack said. “We’ ve moved her from the point guard po-
sition, which should help her out.

“She won’t have to focus on running the offense and
setting up the team anymore. She can use her speed to
move down the ﬂoor and make plays."

The infusion of new talent into the program will allow
Hollack to change the team’s offensive strategy. The coach
believes that the core of seniors, in addition to three in-
coming freshmen, will receive signiﬁcant playing time.

Freshman Bethany Darmelly will step into the role of
point guard, relieving Thomas from the responsibility.

“With Bethany at point guard, we’ll be able to push the
ball down the court more and play transition basketball,”
Hollack said. “Last year, we tended to run a half-court
offense, but that will change a bit.

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

CoL1um'r)FSK)RislNKxi\mn\'

been preaching the basketball family
through any kind of adversity.”

Whatever the end results of the
2001-02 season, the Generals want to
make sure they’re headed in the right
direction in the long run.

“We don’t want to sell our-
selves short,” Denbow said. “Re-
alistically, we’re looking to im-
prove. We want to win double-fig-
ure games, we want to go to the
ODAC Tournament.

“Our number one goal is to get this
program turned around, and we look
at ourselves as the forefathers of that
this year.”

“Mentz and Babst run the floor extremely well, so the
transition game should get some easy points.”

While Mentz and Babst will share the bulk of the points,
Hollack is optimistic that freshman Emily Barker can con-
tribute to the offense.

“Emily is an athletic kid that I think will alleviate some
of the pressure on Mentz and Babst. She rebounds well,
but can also play on the perimeter at the three spot,”
Hollack said.

Hollack also noted that freshman guard Michelle Wentz
knows the game well and plays extremely tough on the
court. This brand of aggressive and scrappy basketball
seems to permeate the team’s ranks.

“I’m already noticing in practice a more competitive
atmosphere. The players are really ﬁghting each other for
the ball,” Hollack said. “You’re going to see a new brand
of W&L basketball this season, without a doubt.”

The ODAC gave the Generals an eighth-place pre-
season ranking, which would place the team in the
postseason conference tournament. While a return to the
tournament is a key goal for the team, Hollack expects a
higher ﬁnish.

“I think we can competewith every team in the league,”
Hollack said. “When a team comes to our gym or we go to
theirs, it’ll be a battle.” V I

The Generals begin the 2001-02 campaign when they
travelto Washington University for the McWilliams Clas-
sic on Nov. 24.

 
 
 
   

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 
  

  
  
   

   

