 

JAMES  LFiY'ti£I.i!'\r‘~1 triad-"~.rs*r
WASH|i"H‘TON & LE UNW§*5lTY
2.  VA 20460

. «G 376.”! 55 '

J

 

§?§.?;    p  rise 0 5 2002  V
W7. rq INSIEE Iiifﬁiéx ”
Sueasaowr. 
I§li31".§.‘XC)N o   l ! I 

     

Lambda Chi
burglarized

Locals raid basement for Budweiser;
discovered and foiled by fraternity brother

? ‘9

By PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF WRITER

4

Two Lexington residents entered the Lambda Chi
house last Tuesday in an attempt to steal beer from the
basement refridgerator.

“All of the doors were unlocked,” said junior
Raphael Penteado, who discovered them. Not feeling
threatened, Penteado called the Lexington Police in front
of the two men.-

“One of them left, but one of them stayed,” Penteado
said, who saw them “trying to steal a case of beer.” De-
spite rumors that men attempted to abscond with Natural
“Natty” Light, Penteado asserts that the refridgerator con-
tained Budweiser.

Upon arrival, the police arrested one of the men for
trespassing. According to the police log, Frank Merchant,
of 1 Country Club Rd., was cited for trespassing, being .
drunk in public and for possession of alcohol under 21.

Merchant, who is not related to W&L History Profes-
sor Holt Merchant, claimed that he was returning a CD
case he had found in the Lambda parking lot. The case, a
double-deckered zebra—skin affair, went unclaimed by any

 

Br Aimruaw LATIMER
.:ss:sr;r~rr OPINIONS EDITOR

,’ BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT League President Caddll Th0mPs0n~ ,
EmOR_ENﬁCﬂ3F “("316 program) will be Open to every- F orrner Director of the Central In-
One, but especially target me imp0V€r_ telligence Agency Robert Gates will
gr Nabors Service League will spon- ished—many of whomotherwise would discuss the terfdrisnfs Challenges in '3
sor an “Oaks and Acorns” fundraiser have no access whatsoever to artistic Thursday address in Lee Ch3Pe1- His
on Sunday to beneﬁt a community- and musical opportunities.” speechs “T€1T0dsm3
ﬁr wide effort at raising art conciousness Tickets willbe soldfornine dollars; A New FaC‘3*—A
among Rockbridge residents. and children under 8 may attend free. New World” Will
The fundraiser consists of a si— The new program was begun by Cdnceﬂtrats 011
’‘ lent auction and a concert, with per— four county residents: Ellen Campbell, gdwmmsnt intellk

formances by Larry Keel, Ringsend
and Southern Comfort. The auction

0 will highlight pieces by local artists
as well as Washington and Lee stu-

I dents. All proceeds will go directly
to the “Oaks and Acorns” program.
“Currently, little to no enrichment
programs exist for the youngest and old-
est members of this community—4he
* age groups which are most prized by
many cultures but often pushed to the
side in our own,” said Nabors Service

ational Associaton.

in August.

IF.-mail news briefs to
V hi@wlu.edu

it . y

-- '7 '-: ‘E ‘.
GENERAL‘

, , Re/a y for Life auction
beneﬁts American Cancer Society

This past Thursday, Jan. 31, almost $3,000 was raised
in an auction for the Rockbridge area Relay For Life, which
supports the American Cancer Society. Organized by
Katrina Knick and Dee Miriello of Dining Services, the
auction’s offerings were dates. More specifically, students
volunteered to go up on stage and be bid upon, and the
winning bidder got to take the student on a date.

This year, 38 people were “auctioned” off. The high-
est bid was for $300, in the forrri of a “two for one” special
for seniors Quincy Springs and Jason Mander. The high-
est female bid was $1 10 for junior Stacey Kimmel.

Said freshman Anne J ohansen, who was “bought” for
$60, “I was kind of nervous about going up there to be
auctioned, but I knew it was for a good cause, so I think it’s
worth it to be embarrassed. Plus, you get a date out of it!”

Knick says that this year, the auction raised almost
$100 more than it did last year, and she has high hopes for
the future.

Indeed, interest in the auction was high, with 175 stu-
dents crowding into Evans Dining Hall to witness the event.

Said Knick, “The Relay for Life is very important to
4 W&L students. Few can say they do not know someone

who has been affected by cancer.”
Contributions can still be made to the Relay for Life
7‘ by sending Knick a check through campus mail.

'4.’ Black history month calendar unveiled

Forthcoming programs include:

It Wednesday, February 6, 2002: Satellite Broadcast,
I “On the Front Lines: Television and African American Is-
sues,” Williams School Room 221, 7:00 pm.

This documentary, the first in a four—part series, brings
together an activist and a journalist from the Civil Rights
movement to explore the symbiotic relationship between
it and the media. Nicholas deBelleville Katzenback, former

 

NOTES -

sv-

sf»

  

A

i

 

a blueglass musician, Marvey Harvey,
a musician, Kelly Fujiwara, director of
Success by Six and Phillip Kramer, a
member of the Rockbridge Area Recre-

“N abors is not doing a cultural
program,” Nabors Publicity Co-
Chair Daniel Vos said. “The com-
munity is doing a cultural program.”

Rockbridge’s program, which
Nabors is raising money for, will begin

 

gence and counter-
terrorism in both
historical and cur-
rent contexts.

Director of
the CIA from 1991 to 1993, Gates
oversaw the agency following the
Soviet Union’s dissolution. An ad-
visor to six presidential administra-
tions, Gates is the only career of-
ficer to rise from entry-level em-
ployee to director.

 

DR . ROBERT GATES

U.S. Attorney General, and Judy Richardson, Producer of
“Eyes on the Prize,” are the panelists. The series, “The
African—American Experience: Civil Rights and Beyond,”
is produced by the Museum of Television and Radio. The
showing is sponsored by the Minority Student Associa-
tion and W&L’s journalism department.

Tuesday, February 12, 2002: Lecture by Lucas Mo-
rel, “Abraham Lincoln as the first Black President? Frederick
Douglass on the Lincoln Presidency.” Northen Audito-
rium at Leybum Library, 7:00 p.m.

Publicity co-chair will give a scholarly view of Fredrick
Douglass and his sophisticated view of Abraham Lincoln
as president of all Americans. The lecture is sponsored by
the Minority Student Association and the Dean of Stu-
dents Office.

Wednesday, February 13, 2002: Satellite Broadcast,
“Television and African—American Issues in the Post-Civil
Rights Era,” Williams School Room 221, 7:00 p.m.

Monday, February 25, 2002: Rene Marie in concert,
the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts, Keller Theatre,
7:30 p.m.

Formerly of Roanoke, this Richmond—based vocalist
says she cut her teeth on the songs of Ella Fitzgerald and
Sarah Vaughan. Jazz critic Jane Mitchell calls Marie, “A
charismatic singer,” who has a voice that “is a lithe and
clear as it is warm and assured.” Sponsored by PRIDE
(Programming for the Respect of Individuals and Diver-
sity in Education).

Wednesday, February 27, 2002: Satellite Broadcast,
“Images of African—Americans on Prime—Time Television,”
Williams School Room 221, 7:00 p.m.

The panelists include Producer Topper Carew; Actor
Tim Reid, also a producer and director; and Mel Watkins,
a writer.

Thursday, February 28, 2002: Lecture by Ervin L
Jordan, J r., “History’s Heretics: Afro—Confederates and
the American Civil War,” Williams School Room 327,
7:00 p.m.

Professor Jordan is the research archivist of the Uni-
versity of Virginia’s Special Collections at Alderman Li-
brary. He specializes in the Civil War and African—Ameri-
can History and is the author of three books, 19th Wr-
ginia Cavalry (1987), Charlottesville and the University
of Virginia in the Civil War (1988), and Black Confeder-
ates anal Afro-Yankees in the Civil War Virginia (Univer-
sity Press of Virginia, 1995). Sponsored by MSA and the
history department.

Chm or ']IE tmmrz "rm L@<iflg'tOl’1 residents attarptecl to pilfer alcohol than the basarerit of lambda Gii Alpha’s ﬂatariityhouse last Tuesday.

Nabors raises arts awareness

.. ‘Oaks and Acorns’ progam reaches out to Rockbridge

Espionage expert to

“Bob Gates . . .is uniquely quali-
ﬁed to talk about American counter-
terrorism efforts in the Cold War era
and the new dimensions of this prob-
lem in the post—Cold War world,” said
Politics Professor Robert Strong.

The Contact Committee, which
secured Dr. Gates in December, antici-
pates high interest in this lecture. .

“The cloak and dagger world of
spy versus spy is naturally appeal-
ing,” said senior Dustin Olson, vice
chair for publicity. “I wouldn’t be at
all surprised if this turns out to be an
immensely popular speaker.”

Gate’s 1997 memoirs, From The
Shadows, described the sometimes
shocking goings—on within the
Agency and established him as an
expert on security matters. Copies are
available in the University Bookstore.

In an exclusive interview with The
Ring—tum Phi, Gates likened the events
of 2001 to those of 1941: “I think the

J P5 BROOI~’S/ The RL\i'G'7Li'-i PHI

 

resident in the house.
:In the future, Lambda President Richard Kilby, a jun-

ior, said, “We’ll start locking our doors.”

speak on terrorism

one major structural change that will
come about as a result of Sept. 11 ac-
tually has its parallel with Pearl Harbor.
The CIA was created not to fight the
Cold War, but because of Pearl Harbor.

“Historians realize that there had
been bits and pieces of information
scattered about all over the govem-

ferent light “There were some people who
wondered after the Cold War whether we
needed a CIA anymore,” Gates said.

“(Today) there’s a renewed ap-
preciation for the need for the CIA
and for very aggressive efforts to pro-
tect Americans.”

Heightened awareness of the CIA’s

ment priorto Dec. .7. that ﬂ Vmwme Predominant
all been put together in one place and . downsizing trend which began after the

integrated and analyzed, it might have
provided warning of the attack, and
thus the reason for creating the CIA.

“Now what happened on Sept. 1 1 is,
I suspect they’re going to ﬁnd out, that
there were bits and pieces of information
held by the FBI, by the CIA, by the Immi-
gration and Naturalization Service, by the
FAA and by others, that if they all came
together in one place they might have
provided some kind of warning ortipo .”

According to the former director, the
post-Sept. 11 world has come to view
American intelligence operaﬁons in a dif-

STEP ON UP IF THE PRICE IS RIGHT

seeﬁrsttkreralsbbte.

Gone om, com; 'IWJIE. Resplendent in a tuxedo, Johri Taffe, the
Alumi Office's directorof aaecial ever1ts,tcoka tumas auctimeerat
aberiefit for theAmericar1Cancer Society. Not evaihis 0/sndaiighter
(sopharore Kelly Taffe) was safe, as Taffe nastermirided the sale of
over twenty W&L students. Bids ran high as sophomores Maiteria
lvbure and Rory lbwlirig each received $100 . For more iDfOIII'atiOl'1,

 

Mzwesr/TheRing—turn

Soviet Union’s demise. “It really began
during the Bush years. Congress really
took the lead in cutting the budget.

“So, in a time. . . where the intelli-
gence community was being asked to
do more and more, they were in effect
given less and less money and people
to do it with. The CIA was 25 percent
smaller, in terms of the number of
people working there, within three
years of when I retired.”

The address, scheduled to take
place at 7:30 p.m., will be followed by
a reception in Alumni Hall.

.3313

8:30 p.m.—Javainthe GHQ. Jubilee.

Tuesday, Feb. 5

7:30 p.m.—Speaker. “Courage to
Care,” Carolyn Comelison, Ph.D. Lee
Chapel. (sponsored by LIFE,
Pariliellenic, Interfraternity Council,
Ofﬁce of Health Promotion)

8:00 p.m.—Concert Guild.
Orchestre de Bretagne conducted by
Stefan Sanderling. Frederic Chiu,
guest pianist. Keller Theater, Lenfest
Center.

Wednesday, Feb. 6

6:30 p.m.———Leadership Seminar
Series. The Spirit of a Man. Room 205,
University Center. Facilitated by W.C.
“Burr” Datz, director of Leadership
Development.

7:30 p.m.—Outing Club Event.
General Meeting and Bike Workshop.
At 9 p.m., an evening of star gazing.
Outing Club House.

Thursday, Feb. 7

7 p.m.—Winter 2002 Politics
Filmfest. “Legend of the Lone Ranger’ ’
(US, 1949). Directed by George Seitz.
Room 221, Williams School.

7 p.m.—-—Speaker. “Servant Lead-
ership,” Kathie Soroka ‘01. Room 327,
Williams School.

Friday, Feb. 8

2 p.m.———Terrorism: An Interdisci-
plinary Perspective Series. “Religious
Terrorism in Japan,” Winston Davis,
W&L professor of religion. Room
A214, Science Center.

7 :30 p.m.—Film Society. “The Tao
of Steve.” (USA, 2000). Troubador.

  

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002

 

 R.?I‘33""i‘*l~'3 ' 
TAFF

‘EDITORIAL

W&L sells itself
to corporate interests

The University’s desire to improve its fa-
cilities is commendable, but not when that
comes at the price of becoming a corporate
franchisee.

Who can walk from the University Center
to the Alumni Center without seeing a plaque
lining a path or dedicating a tree? This is not to
say that some of those plaques (the one for
Nabors, for example) are without merit.

Still, it becomes ridiculous whenour walk-
ways are littered with granite circles proclaim-
ing so-and-so’s largess. No one needs to worry
about misspelling “magniﬁcent” or “generous”
around this campus—just look at the nearest
wall or sidewalk.

Naming things after rich people, however,
is nothing to the perils of corporate franchise.
Already we are a Coca-Cola Campus®. The
fountains and taps of our dining establishments
suffer not Pepsi or Dr. Pepper. Students are
forced to smuggle in non-University-sanctioned
beverages.

Gone ‘are the days when students could
freely sample the full spectrum of soda, the
burbling panoply of carbonated beverages. At
that time, a man (or woman) could choose to
drink what he wanted, not what a corporate
empire commanded.

Now that we’ve set our foot on the slip-
pery slope, though, we’re destined to ski to the
rock bottom.

Consider how this effects the children.

Upon hearing about this editorial, a junior
editor emerged from his bassinet and inquired:
“But who will we then name our buildings af-
ter?”

The ignorance of this otherwise consum-
mately well-informed youngster gives us some
inkling of the problem. He could not conceive
of buildings not named after those who pay for
the privilege.

To him, these things are commonplace.
Indeed, when he grows into a man’s estate,
and sends his own children off to W&L, they
will likely attend classes at Nike Hall, watch

our footballtearn . ~

center, and attend special assemblies in Gen-
eral Motors Chapel.

.these admitted ter-,,,...;....
rorists remain on university facul-

UOTE OF THE WEEK!

”I ’LL GIVE YOU A HUNDRED

II

IIILAIE IF‘ . . .
—INNuMERABLE PAR‘I‘Y—GOERS AT THE
CHI—O/ KAPPA "ANYTHING FOR

MONEY ” MIXER

   . 

l
(4

 

PINIONS

BRETT T. KIRWAN
OPJNIONS EDIIOR
EMAIL: KlRWANB@WLU.EDU

Terrorist tenured at U

Academia continues to be held
hostage by the Left. Studies con-
tinue to emerge detailing the high
percentage of liberals found among
college students and in the ranks of
college professors. A particularly
terrible example emerged soon after
the Sept. 11 attacks.

It turns out that the Northwest-
ern University Law School counts an
“unrepentant terrorist” as one of its
faculty members. Bernadine Dohm
was once on the FBI’s Ten Most
Wanted List and was labeled by J.
Edgar Hoover as “the most danger-
ous woman in America.” All this arose
from her days as a member of the
Weather Underground, a 1970s terror-
ist group that bombed government
buildings. Now, she is the director of
the Children and Family Justice Cen-
ter at the school.

Her husband, Bill Ayers, who was
also a “Weatherman,” is now a pro-
fessor of education at the University
of Illinois at Chicago. He recently re-
leased a memoir entitled Fugitive Days
recounting his time as a terrorist and
was proﬁled in The New York Times
on Sept. ll“‘. As readers were watch-
ing planes crash into the World Trade
Center and Pentagon, they read about
Ayer’s career as a terrorist, including
the 1972 bombing of the Pentagon
arranged by the Weathermen.

Along with Dohm and Ayers, the
Weathermen participated in 18 bomb-
ings, killing six and leaving nine children
orphans. Most disturbingly, the article
quoted Ayers as saying he did not re-
gret his involvement in the bombings
and did not forswear using violence in
the future. Similarly, Dohm signed a dec-
laration of war against the United States
and, although she has renounced vio-
lence, has never recanted.

Even in this time of increased
concern about the threat terrorism
poses to the United States, having
suffered not only the Sept. 11 at-
tacks, but also the
domestic terrorism of
Timthy McVeigh and
the Unabomber,

    

ties. Moreover, David E. Van Zandt,
dean of the Northwestern Law
School, has defended Dohm and her
employment in the face of criticism
by many alumni and the editorial
page of The Wall Street Journal.
Mark Rosati, a University of Illinois
spokesman, defended Ayers’ com-
ments saying that he was within his
First Amendment rights, but con-

 

COURTESY WWW. NOIWHWESTEIRNCI-IRONICLE.ORG

Vhmmmm: Dohm proudly displays her picture ﬁiztm the Mast Wanted List.

ceded that some might ﬁnd his sup-
port of terrorism “objectionable.”

Disastrously, these two incidents
were accompanied by dozens of other
acts of liberal idiocy on campus this
past year. Each year the Young
America’s Foundation compiles a list
of the lowlights, some of the worst are:

- Hampshire College overwhelm-
ingly approving a resolution con-
demning the war on terror, claiming
that it “is symptomatic
of the racism of
American society.”

- The Madison,
Wisconsin School

RIGHT or THE AISLE
BREII T. KIRwAN '04

’E8a}&*s "decision to allow only the in-

strumental version of the national an-
them to be performed. Ofﬁcials claimed
that the words of the song were too
bellicose. The board also barmed reci-
tation of the Pledge of Allegiance in
schools for fear that foreign or natu-
ralized students would be offended.
- The minuteman mascot of
Jefferson Middle School in Fort
Wayne, Indiana losing his musket

because the principal decided that
“guns have no place in school.” He
claimed that the disarmed minuteman
sends a “better, stronger message
about patriotism.”

- Texas A&M’s decision to for-
bid students from ﬂying American
flags outside their windows. Ofﬁcials
felt that if an exception was made to
the school’s policy forbidding ban-
ners to be flown, foreign students
would feel excluded.

- The students of Brown, Ber-
keley and University of Wiscon-
sin at Madison stealing the cam-
pus newspaper to prevent, distri-
bution of an ad taken out by David
Horowitz arguing against repara-
tions for slavery.

These examples demonstrate
that free speech is only important
if used in furtherance of liberal
aims, history is subject to reinter-
pretation to suit liberal goals and
should remind W&L students how
lucky we are to not be held hos-
tage by leftist nutcases.

Matthew B. McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latimer
Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. 'll'inidad
Mary E Guy

Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Editor-in—chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers

Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible subrriis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subrriissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colurrms do not necessarily

vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

http://phi.wlu.edu

reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad- »

Letter to the Editor

BFA answers aiiic/e, explains mission

Dear Editor,

BFA is an organization of women who have come to-
gether to address the intolerance for difference on this carn-
pus. We are a collective body that will earnestly work towards
uncovering the conscious and unconscious covert acts of
discrimination, racism and bigotry that dwell among us.

The name of this organization came about simply be-
cause we are Aﬁican-American women. We are not separatists
— we are proud of the fact that we are young, black women who
are seeking a common goal, tolerance.

Beyond Naeemullah’s slanderous words, he used a pic-
ture of four, beautiful Afiican—American women to perpetuate
his negative perception of our organization. Why is the pic-
ture of the four Africari-American women who started the Black
Studies Program at UCSB offensive?

Naeemu1lah’s claim that we are an exclusive organization

. that will shun the thoughts of students of different backgrounds

is a lie. BFA is open‘ to the participation, suggestions, and
ideas of all of W&L’s students and faculty. I urge W&L to get
past our name and look at what we are attempting to do.

Naeemullah has also gone as far as stating that we have
plagiarized the missions of organizations such as MSA and
PRIDE. I guess Gandhi and King were guilty of the same crime,
the collective promotion of nonviolence. Let it be known that
BFA is not atiempting to take the place of any organization;
rather we are hoping we can come together on the same accord
working in the interests of this campus.

    

“No self—serve gasoline.”
--John Melillo, ‘03

“Ryan Pace.”
—-Lincoln Rose, ‘03

Naeemullah brought to light two incidents that occurred
on this campus. In early Sept., several Af1ican—American fresh-
men ladies were attempting to get into a fratemity party. He
argues for security reasons, the young ladies were carded.
However, I am conﬁdent that harassing these women after it
was conﬁrmed that they were students at W&L is procedure.
After the ladies were ﬁnally admitted into the party, they were
made to feel uncomfortable.

Another incident occurred on Halloween, when some-
one decided that it was entertaining to wear blackface. Before
blacks could enter into the entertainment world, some white
Americans found it pleasurable to mirriic black Americans by
wearing blackface. Negative stereotypes were perpetuated,
such as, “the chicken eating nigger,” “the dancing Topsy,”
and the “singing nitwit.” The caricatures were meant to sug-
gest that blackness was ugly.

Like Naeemullah, I am a minority and am new to this cam-
pus. I believe W&L is a wonderful environment ﬁlled with
lovely people. However, I will not ignore and idly watch the
unfair treatment of students, regardless of background, race,
gender, or sexual orientation. Racism exists. . .bigots are on the
rise. . .discrimination has become a silent norm. Iftliat means
we have to turn this campus upside down and rufﬂe some
feathers, then so be it.

I did not apply to Washington and Lee just because it is
a fine institution. I came to W&L because I believe I have
something to offer, myself.

Sincerely,
Kisha N. Barnes ‘04

PAGE 22'

U.S. ignores AIDS fund

Bush spends bi//ions on defense, little
to help the world's poorest and most i//

The United States is spending a lot of money
these days on protecting its citizens from terror-
ists the world over. In his State of the Union ad-
dress Tuesday night, money and spending were
hot topics for the President. Bush stated, “My
budget supports three main goals for America: We
will win this war, we will protect our homeland,
and we will revive our economy.”

We will also do all this while keeping current
tax cuts in place that, again, give us a deficit this
year of $106 billion and next year a deficit of $80
billion. Very well
then, if it must be
back to Reagan
politics, there is
not a whole lot I can
do but to vote against Bush again in the next elec-
tion.

Thus, it seems that we in America have put a
huge price on protecting the lives of our civilians
from biological warfare, airplanes ﬂying into build-
ings, and bombs aimed at our cities. I have no com-
plaint here.

What is troublesome, is if America can afford
the current debt, why couldn’t we afford another
$1.2 billion dollars to help support something that
helps millions of people worldwide?

The United States’ contribution to the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, was
less than impressive this year. While the Secre-
tary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thomp-
son, always loyal to his boss, hailed America’s con-
tribution of $200 million this year stating that
“(America) is committed to advancing the work of
the fund for many years to come,” nothing could
be further from the truth.

Many world leaders involved with the Fund
are not particularly impressed. Currently the
United States is putting money in the Pentagon’s
coffers in numbers not seen since the Cold War,
yet we give pitifully to a cause that is helping to
stop three diseases which kill six million people
annually.

In December, the House of Representatives
gave authorization for the United States to con-
tribute $l.2 billion to the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS.

U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said he
wanted to see only $1 billion from the United
States, but Bush gave only the difference between

LEFT or CENTER

 

mwhat _the_House authorized and what the U.N. ex-

pected.

Why, after the Republican controlled House
authorized Bush to give up to $1.2 billion, did he
only contribute just over sixteen percent of that
amount? Moreover, according to the Global AIDS
Alliance, America’s pledge this year is actually
quite smaller by percentage than any of the world’s
richest nations.

Moreover, this trend is not new this year. Last
year, the United Kingdom, Japan and Italy were all
able to match the United States’ contributions. Why
is it that the world’s richest nation’s contribution
is not the largest contribution for something that
is so important?

With the current rate of U.S. investment, the
GAA is projecting that during Bush’s term there
will be 12 million people dying from AIDS and at
least 20 million new HIV infections around the
world. Why are we putting such a high price on
some lives, and so small a price on so many oth-
ers? Something here is amiss.

It might be that the outbreak of AIDS does
seem quite foreign to many Americans at the mo-

ment. We seem to realize it is a problem, but for the ’

majority of Americans, AIDS is not a part of our
daily lives.

But in places like Africa and rural China, the
outbreak is so far—reaching that entire villages are
dying. Mothers, unaware of the damage they are
doing, pass the HIV virus to their newly born
young through breast-milk. Safe sex is unheard of
because when you struggle to feed yourself every
day, you seldom worry how to get a latex condom,
if you even know what it is.

America is spending a lot to protect its citi-
zens from the unknown. However, when it comes
to a problem that could not be more prevalent,
our government’s performance is greatly disap-
pointing. It appears that America still has the
mindset that we can take care of our own, but to
spend the money on others is not of any great
importance.

I wonder what all the Americans currently dy-
ing of AIDS would think about that-.

Ro NEw   S

“Apparently, it’s the armpit “Newark.” “Ben Jovi ..
- of America” “Kara Lehman’ ‘05 -—Brent Vaisman ‘05
—-Ann6 Callison, ‘05 Resident of New Jersey 9

 

PAGE 3

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002

ONS

Colleges more liberal than ever

There are more liberals on college cam-

 puses today than at any other time since the
'7 Vietnam War. Assert something like that at

Washington and Lee and you’re liable to get
a slew of scoffs and blank stares. Yet as much
as it’s hard for the average General to believe
that statement, a recent study by UCLA de-
ﬁnitively detects a sharp rise in the number of
left-wing American university students.

According to the report, over 32 percent
of citizens our age demand the death penalty
be abolished, one third think marijuana should
be legalized, 48 percent participated in orga-
nized political demonstrations and nearly 58
percent want gay marriages recognized by law,
the highest levels since 1980. All in all, about
29 percent of students identify themselves as
being politically far left., a ﬁgure that has grown
signiﬁcantly since 1996.

But students aren’t the only ones par-
ticipating in the trend. A survey by Luntz
Research Associates reveals just how many
Ivy League professors regard themselves
as conservative: not a single one. I guess
that’s not terribly shocking news from a
group where 84 percent cast ballots for Al
Gore in 2000. Incidentally, the same polls
showed that Bush barely squeaked by
Nader, only 13 percent think tax cuts are a
good idea and a mere 1 percent would over-
turn Roe v. Wade if given the chance.

These numbers reveal why I last April I
decided to enroll at W&L, and it’s not be-
cause of some knee—jerk conservative ideol-
ogy. I may have worked for
College Republicans this
last election cycle, but I’d
never gush about Ronald
Reagan being the greatest
president of the twentieth century.

Rather than seeking a large group of like-
minded individuals, I struck out to ﬁnd an
environment where actual debate and dialogue
were possible. I needed a university where
political correctness didn’t numb political
thought. Hearing about such events as Mock
Convention motivated me to consider paying
a visit to Lexington.

Yet it was my tour that finally sealed
the decision. I distinctly remember my guide
quipping,, “When you’re talking about col-
lege campuses, the term ‘conservative’
means that only half the faculty is Commu-
nist.” By the time I sent my response back
to W&L’s acceptance letter, I was con-

 
 

: vinced I had at last stumbled upon the in-

stitution that was right for me.

COGENT COMMENTARY‘
ANDREW LATIMER '05



W

 

more coURrrsvTizECALyx

Frrmz Pam: Expect to see more Volkswagon Mj_ni'—Buses‘ aound carrpus.

While I can only speculate, I’d surmise
that the same balanced character cannot be
found at the majority of upper—tier American
colleges. To me, a bias too far to the left or to
the right endangers the very reason for any
institution’s purpose: to enable and engage
in the pursuit of knowledge. When ideas can-

,not be brought out into the community for

dialogue, I fail to see how they can be chal-
lenged and subsequently authenticated as
truth.

Even so, I am somewhat encouraged by
the declining trend in student apathy. The
surge may favor the liberals,
but at least it signifies that
more Americans our age are
adopting political view-
points. Researchers specu-
late as to the movement’s cause, pointing to
recent events like the extremely tight 2000
presidential race, the aftermath of Sept. 1 l or
post—Lewinsky era regeneration of faith in gov-
emment, just to name a few.

I have only been here for a little over a
trimester, so I realize I am hardly qualified to
pass judgment on the status of political dia-
logue amongst students. Regardless, it has
been my experience that surprisingly few of
my conversations have revolved around po-
litical opinion. It seems the events of Sept.
only spawned a deluge of anti-Osama jokes,
not serious discourse.

My fear now is that the traditional
school mentality breeds indifference to is-
sues that don’t happen to directly penetrate
our grand bubble. Sure, the Mock Conven-

#.7 Spring Break
I/oca t/ons./
Cancun, Jamaica,

Bahamas, oi F/or/o’a.
Best Prices!

organ/zers trave/ free!

ct Book Now!
1-800-234-7007

Best Par ties, Best Ho te/s,
éroup D/scoun ts, Group

Space rs //'m/teof/ Hurry up

14/ww.eno’/esssum/nertourscom

risiisourets

for

Studegnts

www.councEitraveicom  
1-800—2COUNCiL

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs ~ Cataracts

COOL FRAMESE
HOT LENSES?
SHADES!

2:’) years where’  V rir 
at 263 R. Mae Street, Lerrirrgteri
ass-we V

tion may get the water stirring every four
years, yet the pool of thought seems lamen-
tably stagnant, especially for a school with
a strong politics department.

The solution I propose may not be a
complete one, yet I feel that it’s a start. For
instance, there’s the lackluster state of de-
bating, be it team-based or otherwise. Wash-
ington and Lee ought to follow in the tradi-
tion of Georgetown in starting our own ver-
sion of their Philodemic Society, a body that
periodically prepares a question or topic for
two teams that square off against each other
in front an audience. Such a group is actu-
ally a throwback to the 19”‘ century—style
campus politics in many ways, but if it gets
hiding liberals to come out of the woodwork,
I’d say it’s worth it.

Additionally, instead of lying largely dor-
mant after the election has passed, College
Republicans, College Libertarians and Young
Democrats could either work individually or
pool their resources to foster organized de-
bate on relevant issues. That may in turn pro-
duce more community communication regard-
ing national issues.

Washington and Lee has all the ingredi-
ents for a charged political atmosphere with
its relative balance of left-wing and right—wing
in both academic and student circles, but the
university’s tendency to stick by tradition and
bypass national trends has resulted in a mood
of complacency. Once the latter is remedied, I
see no reason why W&L could not become a
bastion of political thought and discussion
for the entire nation.

Tet Prep, Admissions and Guidance. For life.

Find a fascinatingly fun friend

Top ten qualities one should seek in a sou/mate are revealed

Probably the biggest concern when
one enters into the realm of lunacy we
know as college, is the ongoing struggle
for acceptance. I think that the ease at
which you make friends alternates
throughout different stages of your life.

For example, grammar school was basi-
cally cream cheese. All you had to do was
share your Crayolas, invite someone to play
kickball with you at recess, or have a slum-
ber party (if you’re a girl. If you’re a boy, all
you had to do was find an obscene sexual
reference to anything.)
So naturally one would
assume that life is beau-
tiful and people are nice.

Then high school
roles around, and I personally thought that
my contemporaries were a little mean. My
best friend Daisy would come up to me in
the morning and say, “Who’s it today?
Abby?,” which meant by the end of the day,
she would somehow get the entire school to
loathe Abby.

“Hey, Elise. Abby said you were fat.”

“That bitch!”

Good thing Daisy and I were friends.
And then I get to college and it turns out
tragedy has been averted, and the world has
been restored of its pleasantries.

But the bottom line is, throughout my
years of seeking social companionship, I’ve
come to the conclusion that there are cer-
tain people that are by far and away cooler
than everyone else. There are roughly, let’s
call it ten, types of people that are so ludi-
crously cool that one cannot afford to not
have them as a friend. I haven’t met them
yet, but I think it’s about time I have. I was
just trying to think of people that would be
a lot of fun.

1. I think it’d be pretty funny to meet
someone who writes thank you notes for
every occasion. Like if you hold the door
open for him, and then the next day you get
a thank you note. Or if you told him he looked

 

ORTHERNER'S EXPOSURE
KRIS POLLINA '03

nice, you’d get a thank you note. Constant
mail. It’d be like a Utopia. I

2. Someone who always had a good
knock-knock joke on hand. There would
never be any awkward silences in groups of
dumb people.

3. Someone who always walked
around in costume.

4. I wish there was someone who had a
tangible buddy list. Like you have the AOL
Instant Messenger, and there’s a list of
people that you’ve recorded as your “bud-
dies.” I want to see some-
one walking around at a
party with a yellow notepad
writing down his buddies,
so he remembers at the end
of the night whom he likes. It’d be so money.
If someone comes up to you, and you don’t
exactly remember your stand on him, you
can just refer to the buddy list.

5. Someone who always had a cell phone
going off. She would look so popular, and
you can be popular by association.

6. Someone who can do a really good
Moonwalk and/or climb trees really well.

7. Anyone who quotes Swingers 22
hours of the day.

8. That boy in Wonder Boys who could
list all celebrity suicides alphabetically. Al-
beit morbid, he was interesting.

9. Any boy who thinks a perfect date
would be to take a girl to the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum.

10. I could probably derive constant
amusement from someone who never put
any inﬂection in his speech, so you never
know when the sentence ends.

I would also like to meet someone who
grows cacti, but I ran out of numbers. Far be if
for me to throw convention to the wind and
procure a Top 1 1. I think between checking off
things on my Pre—Graduation List and finding
the Top 10 Coolest People, my days and nights
are going to be booked in case you wanted to
take me to the wax museum or something.

Write for The Ring—tum Phi

Washington and Lee’s Paper of Record

E-mail phi @wlu. edu for more information

LSAT Srrmr Prep at W&L
stars February 26 ii!

Space is limited 1!

Cali NOW to reserve your spot it!
(Ask for course code LSCV2301)

Cali or visit us drrline today to enroll!

r-anr~rrr«rrsr
kaptestcom '

rt-.S.at‘u.: asngaras:~r‘rsarterrmordsa amsemd 

Musical pass ort  

Orchestra takes audience throu

BY CATHERINE GUY
W&L1:~‘€ ED;'TCP.

This Saturday, February 2, Washington
and Lee’s own University Shenandoah
Symphony Orchestra (USSO) performed its
second full program concert of the 2001-
2002 academic _year. This performance
featured ethnic music of Russia, America,
and Italy. Included in the program were
Muszorgsky’s Night on Bald Mountain (a
piece popularized by Disney’s ‘Fantasia’),
and Aaron Copland’s Billy the Kid Ballet
Suite, as well as showcase piece, Resphigi’s
Pines of Rome. The performance was
exceptionallycarried out, and played to a
nearly packed house. The orchestra was
able to capture aptly the widely ranging
moods and atmospheres of the three pieces.

The ensemble is composed of an eclectic
mix of people, including W&L students,
VMI cadets, professional musicians, and
some local residents who love participating
in the group.

This motley crew is led by the expert
guidance of Professor Barry Kolman. A

Brooklyn, NY native, Dr. Kolman has spent
fourteen years working as the conductor
for Washington and Lee’s student
performance groups of the Orchestra and
Wind Ensemble. Dr. Kolman was trained on
the clarinet and studied music education at
Crane School in Potsdam NY, clarinet
performance at ’
Illinois State
University and
Berlin, Germany,
and received his

It AMAZES ME HOW

‘doctorate at the

University of
N o r t h e r 11
Colorado. He has
taught at James Madison University,
Bemidji State University, Muhlenberg
College, Mount Senario College in WI, as
well as High School in Cheyenne WY,
Denver CO, and Washingtonville, NY. He
has played clarinet with the Peoria and
Bloornington—Norrnal Symphony Orchestras
as well as with the Greeley Philharmonic and
Cheyenne Symphony. Dr. Kolman’s varied
experience has led him to guest conduct

DR.

Do you believe all
of NYC’s students
deserve a quality education?

CHEMISTRY MAJOR 0a A GERI-IAN MAJOR 03
A BUSlNE-S MAJOR CAN ALSO FIND TIME FOR
Ann as so DEDICATED TO THEIR MUSIC.

BARRY KOLMAN

O 0

time, regions
around the globe, in such exotic locations
as Poland, Brazil, Argentina, Belgium,
Canada, Romania and Slovakia. He has
recorded 5 CDs, last one being a Gershwin
CD. A sixth the music of Kurt Weill is in the
making. Dr. Kolman stated that “I love the
classic repertoire but I am also extremely
fond of frlrn music.”
Dr. Kolman
loves working here
at W&L, and feels
that the group’s
strongest asset
are the students.
He loves the way
that “they inspire
me to be the best I can be.” Indeed, the ties
that bind the members of the group extend
way beyond the four years as students.
Dr. Kolman still keeps in contact with
several students who have graduated from
W&L, and a recent graduate hired several
of her friends and fellow musicians from
orchestra to play at her wedding this
summer. As might come as a surprise, most
of the member of the USSO are not music

SOMEONE WHO IS A

avk/A\AJl:J\l J. ,t..i.... Jtnv

W&L1FE EDITORS

L- iAAu._rvu

Eli2uL: COURSEl\lM@WLU.E.'DU & GUYC@WLU.EDU

I\l*~.<‘.~ :i/ The Ring—twn Phi
Umwizo eanrus. Conducter Barry Kolman
has spent 14 years at W&L.

majors. In fact, Dr. Kolman states that “It
amazes me how someone who is a
chemistry major or a German major or a
business major can also find time for and
be so dedicated to their music.”

The ensemble practices every Tuesday
from 5-6 PM and every Wednesday from
7:30-9 PM in Dupont Hall. This year’s
concertmistress is freshman Celia
Landgren. The group puts in many hours
of hard work, especially when concerts
loom large on the horizon. This year the
USSO has performed in a September gala
for the trustees, a November full program
concert, and a December holiday show in
conjunction with the Wind Ensemble,
Chorus, and Chamber Singers.

University Shenandoah Symphony
Orchestra is always looking for new,
dedicated members to share in the superb
experience of making music. For as Dr. Kolman
states “I know there are many musicians on
campus who are not playing in the Orchestra;
they are missing out on such an enormous
opportunity to be part of something so
creative, so beautiful, and so memorable.”

Prove it.

Join a select group of talented professionals and
graduates who will teach in our city’s under-performing
classrooms this fall_. No previous teaching experience
required. You'll receive a salary while working toward a
fully paid Master’s Degree. This isiyour opportunity to
ensure that all NYC students get the quality education
they deserve. Apply now. Call 1-877-NYFELLO or visit
wwwmycteachingfellows.org.

NYC TEACHING FELLOWS

A program of the New York City Board of Education, an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002

The guy next door: 1,53;
Of VMI sports A

Br SAM LAGULE/Snrr 

One of the more armoying obligations we cadets
sign up for when we come to VMI has to be required
attendance of a given event——on short notice.

The concept does make sense. I mean you need sol-
diers on the front, holding back the enemy, not by the tents
playing hearts or jumping double—Dutch. After all, we go to
a military school that trains up to be effective killers, right?

But VMI uses- no, abuses— this requirement for the sake of
having an instant crowd of 1300 people anytime, anywhere?‘

It usually starts like this: a metallic voice sweeps
through the Barracks over an intercom about 6:27 P.M.,
declaring “There will be a formation at 1830 hours on
the track for a speech in Cameron Hall on the physical
impact of excessive ﬂag—waving. Uniform is gray
blouse. All cadets must attend.”

It’s like those capsules that turn into sponge toys.
Get a glass of warm water. . .drop the capsule in.
POOF! . .. soggy giraffe.

As a collective we work about the same way. Find an
unpopular event... make the event mandatory for ca-
dets. . . POOF! . . . surly crowd. That’s pretty impressive. If
I could have 1300 of America’s ﬁnest men and womenTM at
any give time, I would use it too.

That’s why our sporting events are so well attended— not
because we— all 1,300 of us— have any great love for competi-
tion of athletes, but because we have to be there under
penalty of our lives becoming even more unbearable.

We don’t all want to be there. Some of us can think of
countless things we’d rather be doing: these include
homework (heaven forbid), or shining our shoes (yeah
right) or crafting beaded macramé ﬂowerpot hangers.

Football games at VMI are about as painful as stand-
ing still, exposed, in the sweltering sun for three hours
with a blinding glare shooting straight into your pin-
hole pupils. Actually, folks, that’s exactly what hap-
pens. I swear if solar power companies came to Memo-
rial Stadium on game day, the reﬂection of our white
uniforms could power Rhode Island.

Watching the team doesn’t help. Loss after loss after
loss piles up, crushing our spirits. Our ﬁght song talks
about it: “For when our line starts to weaken, our backs fail
to gain. Our ends are so crippled, to win seems in vain. . .”

The cadets who actually watch don’t care about
winning. They just look to beating the point spread.
The rest of us wait out the clock.

So, at the next VMI— W&L Lee—Jackson Lacrosse Clas-
sic, when you see us staring into space, it’s not us 
about goalie stats, chop checks, or defense strategies.

We’re imagining being back in our rooms, doing

homework, shining our shoes, or crafting beaded 1.

macramé ﬂowerpot hangers. . .or winning.

*0

  

illloNoAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002

Smrm rmrmsrm: Co-captain Rob 
r.t:ledial s@m1$m&yaﬁajrm taam.

: W&L secures 1,000th win for

r :;Generals break 7-game losing skid, knock off Emory and Hemy on Ian Mo

, BY Jaarnrr FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

/5 9‘ Finally, luck was on the side of the
_Washington and Lee men’s basket-

ball team.

 

5

'.

V

VI

‘.

I‘. 1

Freshman Ian McClure’s layup off
the top of the backboard with 0.5 sec-

onds remaining lifted the Generals to

?.a 62-60 win over Emory and Henry at
the Warner Center on Wednesday,

-snapping a seven-game losing streak
and keeping W&L in contention for
the ﬁnal tournament slot in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

_A The win was also the 1,000th in the
96-year history of the program

“I’m proud of our guys,” W&L
coach Jeff Lafave said. “You think of

 the people that you represent, that
have come before you, and all the
hard work that they put in. To ﬁnally

g get that 1,000th win is big.

   

__ “For our season and our guys, it’s
ifbur ﬁfth win of the year,” he added.
Right now, we’re eighth in the league
%and in the ODAC Tournament, which
 our ultimate goal.”

 The Generals dictated the pace of

«I

 game on Wednesday. The Wasps,
ﬁiivho came in averaging 84.9 points per
"fgarne, didn’t help themselves on the
géffensive end, missing all 16 of their

liiflrree-point attempts.

4

 “We knew that if we controlled the
tempo, we’d be able to have some suc-
:§cess,” Lafave said. “We mixed it up
ion defense) and went to that 1-3-1

ﬂiione pretty late. A combination of

Svéhanging defenses and our guys’ ef-

gz-;f\c)rt made a big difference.”

0»

it

F

'  W&L controlled the game com-
pletely in the ﬁrst half, as junior John
.Warren scored all 13 of his point be-
 the break behind 4-of-6 shooting

BY DAVE CROWELL

 

ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

}  When the Washington and Lee
iwomen’s basketball team traveled
to Roanoke on Jan. 20, the Gener-
gals and Maroons traded leads
throughout the game, with neither
ifeam holding larger than a three-
lpoint cushion in the last 15:43 of
regulation.

i’ Roanoke came out victorious that

‘ ‘night, holding on for a tough 71-62

fovertime victory.

On Saturday night at the Warner
Center, Katrina Williams ensured
‘there would be no question as to
‘the outcome, scoring Roanoke’s
‘first 10 points and leading an 18-6
run out of the gates. The Generals"
(9-10, 7-8 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference) trailed by double dig-
its the entire contest, finally falling

,, 71-57.

r

Despite a stingy Roanoke de-
ifense that often employed the press

for half-court trap in order to force

525 W&L turnovers, coach Janet

'?“Hollack believes her team’s woes

didn’t stem from an inability to per-

# ‘form.

4*

l. “I think the thing we’re lacking
right now is mental toughness,” the
‘second-year coach said. “We have
the talent, the size and all the tan-
igibles. We just aren’t tough enough
right now.”

R

 

* I

JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDIYOR
ENAIL: ERAl\lKL]l\U@WIll.EDU

Generals defend ODAC championship,
look to return to Atlantic South Regional

BY DIYA Vorma
SPORTS WRITER

After an NCAA Division III second round appear-
ance a year ago, the Washington and Lee men’s ten-
nis team will look to continue its recent success in
2002.

This year’s squad boasts 11 returning players and
four freshmen. They believe their hard work and perse-
verance will show off when it counts the most, from the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament to
NCAA competition.

After a victory over Swarthmore in the ﬁrst round of
last year’s Atlantic South Regional, the Generals were de-
feated by Washington College. ,

The team’s biggest goal this year is to make it to the
ﬁnal eight — a win against Washington would have put
them there in 2001 — and thus a trip to nationals. Cur-
rently ranked 19th in the nation, W&L looks forward to a
triumphant season.

“On paper, it looks like we are a favorite to be at the top
of the region,” said senior Andrew Roberts, one of two

Clure’s circus shot in the ﬁnal

W&L captains. “But we saw over the fall that other teams
have improved as well, and our region will be a lot stron-
ger. It will be close again.”

Roberts’ co-captain, senior Rob Moynihan, says the
Generals want “to beat some teams that we’re not sup-
posed to beat.”

“Our strength as a team is our depth,” he said. “We
typically win all our matches at No. 5 and No. 6 singles,
which helps to take some pressure off our top guys.”

In his second year as head coach, David Detwiler is
excited and optimistic about the coming months. For-
merly an assistant coach to the women’s tennis team,
Detwiler enjoys vast experience with tennis and coach-
ing. His main concern is that “the team stays strong by
being healthy.”

“We’ve had to deal with a lot of serious injuries this
year, including senior Andrew Roberts, who had a screw
put in his foot, and sophomore Austin Kim, who is still
recovering from an ankle sprain,” Detwiler said.

The team usually practices six days a week for two
hours a day. Most of the players are currently involved
in playing challenge matches that determine their seeds
within the team.

Although still undecided, Detwiler should maintain his
top four from last season: senior Rhys James, Roberts,
Kim and sophomore Graham Nix.

program

second

aqua

   

43?

Faorr STAFF REPORTS

PAGE 5

rMen’s tennis team seeks return to national glory

Regardless of the ﬁnal singles or doubles orders —
Detwiler warns of “a few variations” — Moynihan points
out that tennis isn’t simply an individual sport.

“Since every spot in our startingtlineup counts the
same towards our team score, every player is equally valu-
able,” Moynihan said.

According to the co-captain, the Generals will also be
able to count on contributions from newcomers Paul
McClure, Jeff Lusk, David Ellison and Marshall Vrney now
and in the long run.

“We’ve got four talented freshmen this year that will
all contribute a lot to the team’s success in the next four
years,” said Roberts, who added that he, James and
McClure were the three Generals who qualiﬁed for the
quarterﬁnals of the ITA Rolex Southeast Regional at
Swarthmore in October.

The level of incoming talent can only improve by good
coaching and team spirit, two intangibles that one of the
freshmen has already noticed.

“Coach Detwiler has brought with him an attitude and
level of coaching that will take us to the nationals,” Lusk
said. “The team in general is really strong, and there is not a
huge gap between the levels of play. We all play to our ability,
and there is close camaraderie among the team members.”

The season kicks off with a match against Division I
Tennessee-Chattanooga on Saturday.

Plagued by injuries, W&L
falls to Southern Virginia

Knights avenge December loss with home victory

W&L returns home for a triangu-
lar meet against Albright and Johns

MARY G11/The Ring—tum Phi

'Ib'I!-EE\§<t?.I‘: Junior Johnwaxren drives to thehoop in vtechesdayat thelAlan'1erOa’1teras ﬁreslrranMarkFh:arr3eski

lAEishi_r1gtonandLee’s 62—6OwinoverEtrDryar1dH:—riryo1'1 (54)1cd<s<I1. lrilarrE=.rﬁ.r1is‘t3ilvr'Ltl'i13poir1ts.

 

BUENA VISTA—-The retum of se-
nior 197-pounder Ezra Morse wasn’t
enough for the Washington and Lee
wrestling team on Wednesday, as the
Generals dropped a 28-22 decision to
Southern Virginia on the road.

Forfeits at the 125 and 133-pound
classes decided the meet, in which
ﬁve wrestlers picked up individual
wins for W&L (2-6).

Senior Ivan Zdanov pinned 174-
pound opponent Jon Lindsey in
4:23, while sophomore 184-pounder
Joe Mueller recorded a pinfall over
Allen McDonald in 2:39.

Meanwhile, Morse defeated the
Knights’ Andrew Coffman, 9-1, in
his first match since suffering a bro-
ken ankle over Christmas break.

Junior Alex Poor (165 pounds)
and freshman Brian Avello (157)
were the other Generals to win their

Hopkins on Saturday. The event
begins at 11 a.m.

Me/anson, Conners named to
All-America lacrosse team

Two W&L men’s lacrosse play-
ers received preseason recognition
from 360Lacrosse.com this week.

Junior Tom Melanson was named
to the web site’s First Team Pre-
season All-America. The midﬁelder
won had a .735 faceoff percentage
to complement nine goals and ﬁve
assists in 2001.

Classmate Matt Conners was se-
lected for the third team as a defender.
W&L led NCAA Division III in scor-
ing defense at 4.87 goals per game
last season.

The Generals, 14-1 a year ago,
open the 2002 season at home

from three-point range. The Generals
ended the first 20 minutes with a 36-
26 lead.

But the Wasps, who defeated
then-No. 1 Randolph-Macon just four
days earlier, took away W&L’s out-
side shooting in the second half.
Emory and Hemy clawed their way
back into the contest, taking their ﬁrst
lead at 53-51 with 2:27 to play.

McClure’s three-point play at the
1:42 mark gave the Generals a 56-55
lead. After the Wasps’ Jay Rosser tied
the game with a pair of free throws
with 46 seconds remaining, W&L
freshman Mark Franceski tipped in his
own miss for a 60-58 lead with 17.5
seconds to play.

  

But Rosser drove the length of the
court and hit a baseline jumper with
9.5 seconds to go, setting up
McClure’s heroics.

“The last few mirrutes of the game,
the biggest thing was trying to get
stops,” Lafave said. “We had the score
where we wanted it, and we knew we
had a chance to win the game.”

Though Warren was held without
a point in the second half, his team-
mates picked it up on the offensive
end. Sophomore forward Hamill Jones
scored all nine of his points in the
second half, and McClure had six of
his 1 1 after halftime.

“You need guys to step up at certain
times,” Lafave said. “Obviously, J ohn’s

“Generals split pair f home ODAC contests

Fm GA’/The Ring—tum Phi

Snmumar-ms: Junior guard Elizabeth Igo played 23 minutes off the bench in
W8L’s 71-57 hare loss to Roanoke on Friday.

Senior Megan Babst led the way
for the Generals, scoring 24 points and
pulling down 10 rebounds to register
another double-double.

Classmate Jessica Mentz
grabbed a career-high 18 boards and
scored 15 points, 13 in the second
half.

Williams led the Maroons with 17
points, five rebounds and five steals.

The key for Roanoke, however,
was a stiﬂing defense that forced the
Generals to commit 18 turnovers and
shoot 25 percent from the floor in the
ﬁrst half.

“We need to return to the funda-
mentals,” Hollack said. “There are
ﬂashes of brilliance where we perform
like we can, but we need to be more
consistent and stick to the game plan.”

The Generals’ loss gave Roanoke
their ﬁrst winning streak of the sea-
son. The defeat also stunted W&L’s
attempt to start another winning streak
following a Wednesday night defeat
of Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, 60-52.

Mentz scored 26 points and
grabbed 12 boards to lead the Gener-
als in the win over the WildCats. Babst

 

ﬁrst half kept us in the game and gave us
the lead, and then you had Hamill and

matches on the night.

against Bates on Feb. 23.

Ian step up in the second half.”
W&L fell to 5- 15, including a 3-12

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES FEBRUARY 5-11

mark in the ODAC, with an 80-63 loss
at Harnpden-Sydney on Saturday. The
Generals led 32-26 at halftime, but fell
victim to a red-hot Tiger team after
the break, as the home team shot 70
percent from the ﬁeld and 7—of-8 from
three-point range in the second half.

McClure and junior Touissant
Crawford led W&L with 13 points
each, while Warren and freshman

W&LtFi dlh-M ,4..
Mike Stuart contributed 10 apiece. February 8'9 .a an O p H acon p m
The Generals step out of ODAC Indoor Track Men S Basketba
W&L at Christopher Newport W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 7 p.m.

play on Thursday with a 7 p.m. home
contest against Mary Washington.

Wednesday, Feb. 6
Women's Basketball
W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 7 p.m.

Thursday, Feb. 7
Men’s Basketball
Mary Washington at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Feb. 9

Men’s Tennis

Tennessee-Chattanooga at W&L,
11 a.m.

Wrestling

W&L Triangular, 11 a.m.

Women’s Basketball

added 14 points and 10 rebounds and
blocked a school-record six shots.

Freshman Bethany Dannelly, the
conference leader in assists at 5.9 per
game, dished out nine assists and
added nine points.

The next week for the Generals will
be key in determining who they play
in the ODAC Tournament later in
February. W&L faces Eastern Men-
nonite and Randolph-Macon, two
teams just above and below W&L in
the conference standings, on the
road.

When the Generals travel to
Harrisonburg for a 7 p.m. game on
Wednesday, they will need to con-
tain Emily Mullet, the leading
scorer in ODAC play. Mullet
scored a career—low four points on
1-of—7 shooting from the field in
the Royals’ 56-52 win over W&L
on Jan. 4.

“We contained her in the last game,
but they played well in the post,”
Hollack said.

More importantly, however,
Hollack believes her team needs to
focus on their own performance and
ignore who they’re playing.

“I feel that we need to take care of
ourselves, and not focus on our op-
ponents,” she said. “The key right
now is that we continually make the V
same mistakes. We need to take a step
back and learn from our mistakes in
order to improve.”

Coming soon to the sports pages of

THE RJ1\lG—TUM PHI. . .
Next Week:

Previews of men’s lacrosse, women’s lacrosse and
baseball, plus continued coverage of men’s and
women’s basketball, track and wrestling.

After the Washington Holiday:

Previews of golf and women’s tennis, a wrap-up of
W&L winter sports, and coverage of the Generals in
the spring season.

Questions, comments or suggestions? interested in
covering Washington and Lee athletics for the Phi?

Contact Jeremy Franklin at x4060 or franklinj@wlu.edu.

 MONDAY, i7EBRUAR‘{77gg__4W,_viVg

{hie

  

av mm ‘
FEB. 3, 9.. 11 3. 12 AT 3 PM :

W&L crosse town, "53- 9 3* *0 AT 2 PM   A

runs at VMI Relays       »
A Box  4534   A 1
Emauamzz -ms-r: The Washington and . __  . - . A . —; .. " I ‘
(bmack Field House for an individual— ' ‘ 4‘
only ocrtpetition on Saturday. (Above)
Sophomore Andrew Fotinos chases

freshman Steve(lham‘bers inthemen’s ‘?
mile run. (left) Sophomore Vanessa WANTED: Surrmer Scholars Counselors V
Adams runs in thewcmenls version of

theae _RIﬁﬂ maﬁa June26—July27, 2002 1'
oft‘heeventlog<I1totl'JeWas‘r1irgto'1arri 1
LeeAth1etirsv£bsiteatati'ﬂ.etirs.wlu.e3.1. . . .
(gptoslymygy/ﬂERing_mHu», Areyou looking foragreat chance tobe anraitorand to e>@ience I’

workingwith high school stixieits mhile staying at W&L for the Ironth
of July? The Washington and Lee Summer Scholars Program is an 4.

 

      
    
 

    

  

 

 

f excitzing four week academic program for approximately 150 rising
highschool seniors. Weareloolcing forresponsjble studeits tohelp ‘V
  "'§f?.‘£'!!€‘! ::4s:<:=.€e=£'. E—File Your Federal & State Returns guide participants ardtoplar1e><tramrri<iﬂar activities suchas tal-
ggﬂuﬁgga $9 95 f 11 at shows, lip syncs, meekeridhikes, trips toGoshenandnore. '
‘BAHAMAS. um . or A I at ‘ ,,
  Www°123f11e'net Forﬁrrtlerinfonraticnarritoobtainapplications, please contact 4,
. 1  See web—site for additional credit. J31niferI—OttSr ﬁrmer ﬁlolarsr H3—U- House at 463-8722-

 (”bOokmark” this ad for future reference) ’*
Thedeadljne forti1rnjnginap_plications isFebruary27, 2002. "

‘A

     ﬁn

zttﬁi ~%t,:§ _ ff”

1»

h

»

..~

4

-1

A

'1

  azsmxsso - mmatsrmo » ,13AGH-L3 - mm:m‘s ~ £’R{ITlS3;A3~§‘I’$
~ ' 9WFSE‘¥Y% §¥KEK?#EJXIN3T0?§*“4€ﬂ6

~ 4

HJJ5 -‘[D"S”lMI.“’ ‘
A

51j“©i§E:\MlJJ:, J l_,_r:

J BEGINS nunnv. Mmumv 11 .
Jan. 11-17 25% off evervllune .
Jan. 18-24 30% oﬂ-' ‘.11
Jan 25-31 40% cl-17 V.
Feb. 1-9 1 569% oFl7!!!!!  L.

c:I_ls-rolvl cn=u::E|=:s Ixlcrr II\Ic:I_I_u::EI::I _ / ,
  , I A
MAKING ROOM FOR THE Java    ’
NEW smzme INVENTORY   i.

 

