  

S "578 . 755
R5552. ._ ..
V, [5 Q-+‘i\x:tIrI.» I321: l'tt‘l~I Wtltlii 1? 'P.«.<;I-1 at 

fl  ‘~:-. t.\'~.

 
   

  

   
 

  

  

 

  
 

 

5.3 A 1.
l.i1:>l§{i< ass
\t3’&l..I:-ié.a

 mi»: (3

L3! L24 in}

 

 

 

 

 

W&L a/umnus presumed dead; friends mourn

I’
BY MIKE AGNELLO
ASSOCIATE EDITOR
‘ Washington and Lee has
. likely suffered its ﬁrst casualty
of Tuesday’s terrorist attack on

the World Trade Center and

~ 0 Pentagon.
James Gadiel ’00 worked
for bond brokerage ﬁrm Can-
tor Fitzgerald

floor of
Tower One
of the Trade
Center. He
wasnotlisted
among the
company’s

 

JAMES GADIEL _
. :00 SUIVIVOIS on

an 6I1’lCI'-

' gency web site. A representa-
‘ tive at New York’s Crisis Cen-
ter said Gadiel was not treated
at any area hospitals and is still
missing. In several interviews
’ it this week, New York City res-
cue workers said, at this point,
there is little chance of ﬁnding
‘ any survivors.
I Cantor Fitzgerald was
one of the companies that

. suffered the most employee
casualties. Of the more than
‘ 1000 employees, fewer than
400 survived. CEO Howard
T Lutnick said he does not
know how to handle the situ-

" ation.
“I have to do something

‘ for the 700 families,” Lutnick
said. “Seven hundred fami-
lies. Seven hundred families.

on the lO3rd '

Gadiel, originally from
Kent, Conn., was an econom-
ics major and a member of
Sigma Nu fraternity. W&L’s
Lambda chapter is already
mourning his death.

Chapter Chaplain Ben
Segal led the chapter in prayer
before dinner on Friday. Sigma
Nu National Headquarters sent
a dozen white roses to the
house.

Chapter President Matt
Jacobs was Gadie1’s “little
brother” during his freshman
year. Sigma Nu and several
other fraternities at W&L as-
sign older brothers to mentor
pledges, and ﬂie relationship
resembles that of two brothers.

Jacobs said Gadiel’s
probable death has devastated
the chapter.

“It’s been tough, espe-
cially for the older guys who
knew James better,” Jacobs
said. “We’ve been leaning on
each other.”

Segal said he admired
Gadiel’s easygoing personal-
ity.

“He had a lot ofpoise 
emotions canrunhighinafra-
ternity house, and he always
stayed calm and was able to
keep a level head,” Segal said.

Jacobs said he is grieving
intensely, and will miss Gadiel.

“He was the first one to
make me feel really welcome
at (Sigma Nu),” he
said”(Gadiel was) a really car-
ing, nice guy, a stand-up indi-

    

C T’
TIME FOR REFLECTION. A silent vigil before Lee Chapel drew hundreds of participants, including students,
professors, and community members. The event was held the night of the terrorist attack on the World Trade
Center and Pentagon, when many students were still in shock, worried about family in New York or Washington,
D.C., and angry about the assault on their country. The next day, students moved quickly to organize Red Cross
aid, blood drives and counseling programs. Reassurances from former students poured into the Alumni Office,
forcing a seven—day work week on Colin Tate ‘O1, Asst. Dir. of Alumni Programs for Online Communications.

 

National tra e for schools, cit

Lexington college students reactpatriotica//y to tragedy

BY LATRINA STOKES
STAFF WRITER

An outpouring of patriotism and sup-
port in the local community mirrored na-
tionwide sentiments in the aftermath of last
week’s terrorist attack.

In the hours immediately following the
tragedy, some Washington and Lee faculty
cancelled classes or led discussions on the
loss of life and students’ sense of insecurity.

A specially-tplarined prayer and wor-
ship service hosted by Generals’ Christian
Fellowship Tuesday evening began a string
of religious services, including a meeting
held by W&L’s newly developing Unitar-
ian Universalist organization.

“Our meeting has different people with
different expectations coming together and
collectively and spontaneously praying,” said
GCF President Brad Wiginton. “Afterwards,
we had a worship time and it was great to see
people giving a sacriﬁce of praise.”

Community members scrambled to
donate blood to victims in New York and

Washington, D.C. However, the Red Cross .
suggests that students participate in Chi_

Psi’s late October blood drive, now that
local centers are full.
W&L Peer Counselors are also avail-
able to help. -
“An important factor for Peer Coun-
selors in reaching out to other students is
that we are trained with sensitivity and eyes

to see symptoms of grief and hurt,” said’

Berdine Edgar, Peer Counselor president.

At the Virginia Military Institute, Cadet
Counselors are fimctioning in much the same
way. Their ﬁrst priority was to get cadets in
contact with family members in the affected
areas, said senior Magnus Nordenman, ca-
det-in-charge of the counseling staff.

A call from the Virginia National
Guard has directly involved ﬁve cadets with
national efforts.

In Lexington, patriotic displays are ev-
erywhere: American ﬂags have appeared in
store windows and on car antennas; red, white
and blue ribbons abound on shirt fronts.

Despite such shows of unity, some fear
that their religious beliefs or backgrounds
will make them the targets of discrimina-
tion or violence.

Arabs and Arab Americans have re-
ported incidents of prejudice across the
country, stemming from the hijackers’ iden-
tiﬁcation as Muslims.

“Anybody who treats Muslims nega-
tively because of the insanely despicable
actions which took place is ignorant,” said
W&L senior Shazi Niazi, founder of the
Muslim League. “Hatred is the source of
such devastation and has never done any
good in this world.”

Niazi said that the negative stereotype
has also affected other Muslims who fear
that the league may be extremist.

VMI cadets are likely to react just as
any other students rriight, said Colonel Dale
Davis, director of international programs
at VMI. ,

“I think the cadets at VMI are sophis-
ticated enough to differentiate between
terroristsand Muslims," Davis said. He
added that studying the language is impor-
tant in recognizing that the country has al-
lies as well as enerrries in the Middle East.

The carnage did not leave the W&L
and VMI families unscathed. Chris
Edwards ‘00 of W&L lost an aunt and uncle
aboard one of the hijacked ﬂights. Jonah
Glick ‘90 of W&L lost his brother Jeremy.

Among the missing are: VMI alum-
nus Lieutenant Commander David Will-
iams ’9l, presumed dead; W&L alumnus
James Gadiel ’00, presumed dead; and
W&L alumnus Rob Schlegel ’85.

“We’re keeping our fingers crossed,”
said Rob Mish ’76, director of alumni

l;\FOGRAPHIC BY KATIE HOWELL/T/Jr Rir1g—rrm1 Phi

on the Rat Disciplinary Committee, one being the

Although Acting Public Relations Director Chuck
Steenburgh would not comment on a third dismissal, Ca-
det Captain Michael Zanetti conﬁrmed that the president
of the Honor Court was also dismissed Friday, in relation

' “The class was shocked by the position the adminis-
tration took,” said Zanetti. “The cadets were high rank-

The dismissals have jeopardized the status of the dis-
missed cadets’ military appointments to the Marines and
the Air Force. Disrriissal is typically grounds for with-
drawal of a commission, Steenburgh said. If the appoint-
ments are withdrawn, the cadets may have to enlist to re-
pay the U.S. Department of Defense their scholarships.
Steenburgh added, however, that each individual service
can evaluate the disciplinary actions of VMI and deter-

Four other cadets received penalties of a lesser na-

Cadets interviewed on the streets of Lexington said.

VMI administration acted radically to promote a positive
public image. Almost twice as many rats, or freshmen,
have withdrawn this year in comparison to the same time

“It’s wrong,” one third classman said. “Everyone’s
pretty upset, because (the administration) did not follow

‘ I can’t say it without crying,” vidual, and we’re all better for
he said. having known him.”

‘ . . . . I . . .. ..
.   Slll(l€I1tS Illlllllly
, Dismissals of 3 ﬁrst classmen trigger widespread Corps disobedience

‘ president.

l

, to Thursday’s dismissals.

' ing, well respected and had excellent track records.”
‘ .

9

F
l‘ mine whether or not to retract the commission.

ture and remain at school.
Q
‘ Fir Prioro The Ring-tum last year.
BY ALISON TRINIDAD
It NEWS EDITOR
usual disciplinary action.”
- F In an act of student protest at the disrriissal of three

 

cadets, most of Virginia Military Institute’s Corps of Ca-
dets refused to march in a scheduled parade last Friday.

“Our brother rats have been wrongfully dismissed.
Because of this, your leaders have decided to take action,”
said Mark Grigsby, first, or senior, class president, to the
Corps Thursday evening. “We will be stepping up, taking
control andpolicing our own.” ,

According to a statement released by VMI’s of-
fice of public relations, one cadet was suspended for
a year and two dismissed on Thursday for “disciplin-
ary reasons related to the training and discipline of
new cadets.’’ ,

“VMI’s Ratline, (when) properly administered, be-
comes a cherished part of the experiences of every VMI
cadet,” said VMI Superintendent Major General Josiah
Bunting.’ “When cadets who are responsible for adminis-
tering this system, however, step over the carefully pre-
scribed lines of conduct that are established for them, our
reaction is swift and, in some cases, severe.”

Cadets argue, however, that the “lines of conduct”
were not clearly deﬁned and that the disrriissals were ir-
regular and abrupt. _

“We had no time to defend ourselves,” said one of
the disrrrissed cadets. “We were already hung and executed
before we stepped into that room.”

The dismissed cadets were both first classmen and

Zanetti said that each branch of cadet government
acted to alter campus life at VMI to demonstrate the ca-

“ dets’ displeasure with the adrninistration’s decision to dis-

miss.
The rats were taken out of the ratline Thursday after-

noon as the first instance of protest. Steenburgh said sus-

pending the ratline is the customary way to express disap-
proval.

Yet, that evening, rumor of a step—off spread through
the Corps.

A last-ditch bargaining‘ method used by the Corps, a
step—off is when the Corps refuses to participate in or ac-
knowledge the military and regimental procedures of VMI.
The Cadet, VMI’s weekly student newspaper, reported that

' the Corps has not stepped off in over a decade.

First-class leadership called the entire Corps to at-
tend a meeting Thursday night in Jackson Memorial Hall,

a meeting that faculty and administration were not invited ‘

to attend. 7

Honor Court President Shawn Joyce addressed the_Corps.

“It is our belief that administrative control has reached
dictatorial proportions, in effect undennining the mission
of the Institute, which is to produce honorable men and
women conﬁdent in the functions and attitudes of leader-
ship,” he said. “The administration has essentially removed
the ‘leadership’ aspect from our Corps leaders, from the

SEE VMI, PAGE 2

SEE REACTION, PAGE 2

Work-study wages jump 60cents

Few returning students aware of change; Minimum wage remains $5.15

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

Life just got a little richer for Washington and Lee’s
work— study students. This year, the University announced an
increase in work-study wages from $5.15 an hour to $5.75
an hour.

The work—study program provides on—campus jobs
that are tax—free and funded by a federal grant matched
by a 25 percent contribution from W&L, said Associate
Director of Financial Aid Kim Ruscio.

Students must qualify for the job by demonstrating
ﬁnancial need. Over 300 W&L students are participat-
ing in the program this year, said Ruscio. Those students
work everywhere from Evans Dining Hall to Leybum
Library to the Office of Student Financial Aid itself.

The present minimum wage of $5.15 in Virginia was
set in 1997. The first increase since then, the raise has
generated a positive reaction among the student body.

‘“It’s great. It’s good to know that wages have gone

up,” said senior Joey Ajayi. “Of course, prices have prob-
ably gone up as well. Still, the increase is welcome.”

Work—study supervisors are also supportive of the
wage increase. Vicki Sessions, circulation supervisor for
Leybum Library, appreciates the work her employees per-
fonn.

“We couldn’t run the library without them,” she said.
“They deserve the increase.”

Ruscio noted that the increase equalizes the pay be-
tween work—study positions and those jobs on campus
that students can apply for regardless of ﬁnancial need.

Sophomore Ian Mcllroy said the wage increase
brings pay up to parity with non-cainpus part-time jobs.

“I’m very happy about the increase in wages,” said
Mcllroy. “IfI can make $6.15 an hour bagging groceries,
I shouldudeﬁnitely be able to make $5.75 an hour here.”

Ruscio said the increase in wages has not put a strain
on the work—study budget. While there is obviously a
ﬁnite number of j obs the University can provide, there is
presently no need for a budget increase, she said.

University wireless

project progresses as planned  

Access from fraternity houses expected online by end of Fall Term

BY MEG HASTON
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee students should be able to
access the Internet from anywhere on campus by the
end of this year, said University Computing Direc-
tor John Stuckey.

This assurance rests on the success of the wire-
less project at W&L, a project that involves install-
ing “access points” at key places on campus so that

a student with the proper technology can access the

web without a cable.

The process is simple: a wireless card the size
of a credit card is installed into a student’s laptop.
Wireless technology uses radio waves, not wires, to
transfer information between computers through a
network of access points. Through this setup, the
student can access the web from a carrel in the li-
brary, a dorm room and even outside.

This new technology is already installed at the
law school, where students are finding the wireless
Internet access “very convenient,” Stuckey said.

Fraternity houses are next on the wireless docket,
with expected completion set for the end of Fall term.

“What we’re trying to do is enhance the cover-
age of the campus,” Stuckey said. To accomplish this,
a network signal installed in the Sigma Chi frater-

nity house will allow the other fraternity houses to
utilize the technology. University Computing has al-
ready installed access points in the library and sci-
ence center. ‘

While many students have found the new tech-
nology convenient, it is not without its disadvantages.
Stuckey calls the technology “hit and miss,” noting
that students must be within a few hundred feet from
an access point and that obstacles in the path of the
access points may reduce the efficiency of the sig-
nal. Additionally, the wireless connection can at times
be slower than a wall connection; the more students
using an access point, the slower the connection.

The project has also proved to be expensive:
around $100,000 so far. As this technology improves
at a rapid rate, the equipment will need to be updated
frequently, which will add to the cost of the project.
The wireless cards are also pricey; they can cost a
student anywhere from $100-$180.

“I think it was inconvenient to pay so much
money to buy the wireless card when I only use it in
the library,” said freshman Mackenzie Morgan.

When the project is completed, students will be
able to use both wireless and hardwire wall connec-
tions. The project is not an exchange, Stuckey said.
Students will be able to choose the connection that
suits their personal preference. ’

    

PAGE 2

N EWS

ELRODME.\l0RlAL

IN MEMORIANI. Hundreds of students, staff, faculty and Lexington area residents honored the latejohn W Elrod, W&L’s president who dicdjuly 27 .

MEG FmuuRA/ T/Je Riizgrzwr P/22'

VMI from page 1

Steenburgh said.

Although VMI administration did not conﬁrm that Joyce

E mail news briefs to

 

Love Your Body Day

Rockbridge Valley NOW and tl1eW&L Office of Health
Promotion is sponsoring a video and discussion on
Wednesday, Sept. 19 in Noithen Auditorium.

“Redeﬁning Liberation” shows how advertising pro-
motes unhealthy body images. Freshmen who attend can
swipe their ID card for the Customs Program.

Play to address gender issues

In the hope of heightening awareness of gender is-
sues and misconceptions, the Dean of Freshmen and the
Office of Health Promotion have invited a one-man play,
“Crimes Against Nature,” to illustrate the absurdities and
contradictions of the “ideal man” and “ideal woman.”

The performance will be held in Keller Theater of the
Lenfest Center at 8 p.m. on Thursday. Freshmen who at-
tend can swipe their ID card for the Customs Program.

W&L president search committee chosen

Confirmed members of the new committee are: Harlan
Beckley, Brian Murchison, David Partlett, Mike Evans, Larry
Peppers, Randolph Hare, Mike Pleva, Linda Hooks, Chair
Lad Sessions, Suzanne Keen, Bob Strong, Stacy Mcboughlin

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2001

‘O2, Cecile West-Settle, David Millon, Tom Williams.
Barbara Taylor of the Academic Search Consultation
Service (ASCS) in Washington, D.C., was hired as the

' University’s Presidential Search Consultant. Taylor will

begin her work with the University immediately. She will
be on campus September 17 - 19 to meet with the Presi-
dent, Rector of the Board J. Frank Surface, members of the
Presidential Profiling Committee to begin the
development of the presidential profile.

An open forum is scheduled Wednesday, Sept. 19,
from noon to 1:30 p.m., in Lee Chapel, for the W&L com-
munity to express its views on the presidential search.

iicketed for mourning

Lexington police ticketed first year law student Kim
Bryant late Tuesday evening for parking in a yellow zone
on Washington Street. Bryant said she parked illegally
because no legal spaces were available to attend the si-

lent vigil in front of Lee Chapel for those who lost their «

lives in the terrorist attacks in New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania that same day.

W&L students and faculty gathered by the hundreds,
sharing thoughts and prayers with others, seeking emo-
tional support from their peers.

Director of W&L Security Mike Young said that the
University did not alert the police of the vigil, making the
city’s officers unaware of possible parking problems.

Bryant had an agreement with W&L Security until
her disability sticker arrived, but the D-Hall side of Wash-
ington Street falls under Lexington Police jurisdiction.
Bryant will have the opportunity to protest her ticket when
she appears in court.

cadets who have proved their merit over the course of the
past three years.”

Joyce informed the Corps that, until administration
readmitted the dismissed cadets, the Honor Court would
not conduct status checks and would leave_ the Officer of
the Day decertified. That means that cadets on confine-
ment can walk freely through town and that the random
checks on proper uniform or “rat knowledge” are not con-
ducted. Joyce emphasized, however, that non-adniinis—
trative violations of the Honor Code, such as lying, cheat-
ing or stealing, would still be prosecuted.

The Honor Court is responsible for teaching and en-
forcing the honor code. It pervades the every aspect of
VMI life and depends on the vigilance of every cadet,

was disrriissed on Friday, cadets said that he was expelled
due to the actions taken by the Honor Court on Thursday.

Discussions between cadet leaders, alumni and ad-
ministration continued throughout the weekend.

Zanetti emphasized the need for Corps unity. This
was not to be a step-off but a step—up.

“This isn’t for someone’s rank, this is to salvage
cadetships,” he said. “We want to bring our guys back.”

But disobedience at VMI will not be tolerated,
Steenburgh said.

“As a military institute, (the refusal to march) was a
substantial infraction of regulations,” he said. “It’s unfor-
tunate that the Corps decided to do that. There will be
consequences.”

24

Today
8:30 p.m.——-Java at the
GHQ. Jon Shain.
Tuesday, Sept. 18
' 8 p.m.+Faculty Recital.

    

Chris Magee, trumpet. Keller
Theater, Lenfest Center.
Wednesday, Sept. 19
Noon—Open forum,
sponsored by presidential
proﬁle committee. All mem-
bers of Washington and
Lee community invited to
participate. Lee Chapel.

Thursday, Sept. 20

10 a.m.—Study Abroad
Fair until 3 p.m. Stemmons
Plaza (rain site: Great Hall,
Science Center).
Friday, Sept. 21

7:30 p.m.—— Film So-

ciety. “Best in Show’/’«

(USA, 2000). Directed by

Christopher Guest. In
English. Rated PG-13.
Troubadour Cinema.

7:30 p.m.—Second
City, national comedyl
improv group. Keller The-
ater, Lenfest Center.
Saturday, Sept. 22
Fallbegins.

INFOGMPHIC BY KATIE Ho\mi./ T/ie Ringmm Pbi

REACTION from page 1

programs. “We’re pray-
ing for all our alumni in
those areas, and hope
they get a sense of com-

fort soon.”

The W&L Alumni
Office has no official
word on either Schlegel
or Gadiel.

U.S. President

George W. Bush has di-
rected the country to go
on with business as
usual, just as W&L ad-
ministration and faculty
has urged students to

carry on as closely to
normally as they can.
That means that Ca-
reer Services will be con-
tinuing with its plans for
recruiting in the New York

area, said Career Services
Director Beverly Lorig.
As of Friday, no em-
ployers had contacted
the office to cancel a
visit. Anderson consult-

ing kept its scheduled
visit last Friday, but there
is no guarantee that other
companies will.

“Many of the firms
are dealing with the trag-

edy,” Lorig said.
“They’re in the midst of
it. Recruitment is not a
priority.”

Businesses all over
the world will be watch-

ing American stock mar-
ket, which reopened to-
day.

0 Mike Agnello, Katie
Howell and Alison Trinidad
also contributed to this story.

 
 

1:30 n.m.

Tnursrlav. Sentemlier 20. 2001

  as 15"”
ei!l"'5

A dramatic comedy, directed by Barry Levinson, looks
at the changing times of the mid—50's and focuses on
issues such religion, race-and class distinction. one
of the characters attends W&L.

law school. Front lawn
nain site: Iloremus ltvm  

 

 

gee

FIIEE movie, HIEE sot! drinks,
HIEE nolleorn. Sllonsorerl mi
Ilillel. Bring a liIanIiet.pg

5

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2001

Sliii“t5li“iﬁD1ToR1AL

'I‘uesday’s events in New York City and
Washington, D.C. caused undue amounts of
pain, shock and horror to the Washington and
Lee community, this country and the world.
Students, most of whom know somebody in ei-
ther place, consoled each other and tried to
make sense of these heinous crimes against
humanity. The mettle of our university, and more
importantly our great nation, is being tested.

Since most of our generation came of ma-
ture age, our country has been bitterly divided
between blacks and whites, for or against abor-
tion, even hanging and dimpled chads. The
American dream, that sense of unrufﬂed opti-
rnism that allowed us to achieve a dispropor-
tionately high number of great things, seemed
to have disappeared. Kids killed each other in
school, and parents murdered their children.
American unity, in decline since the late 1950s,
vanished in the bitter generational conﬂict over
the Vietnam War and had never recovered.

All this came to a screeching halt Tuesday.
For the first time in a long while, every Ameri-
can stood up and took notice. Hardened CNN
correspondents, known for their stone counte-
nances, openly wept when interviewing family
members of those still missing. People all over
the country organized blood drives and donated
literally tons of food, clothing and medical sup-
plies to aid the New York rescue effort. Politi-
cians who previously were not on speaking
terms stood together, denounced the atrocities,
and agreed to back the president, ﬁnishing off
with a spontaneous rendition of “God Bless
America.”

The evil men who perpetrated these odi-
ous crimes underestimated our ability to re-
bound, and they will soon see our determina-
tion to strike back. .

If any good can come of these tragedies, it
is the newfound sense of perspective they have
given us. We will think twice before whining
about our stressful class work, or how our world
is going to end because we did not get that choice
internship. Most importantly, we will realize that
there is a world outside of Lexington, and people
need our help.

To the W&L community: give clothing,
blood and prayers to those in New York and
Washington. Every little bit helps.

To the rest of our nation: stay strong. We
must not recoil in fear, because that is precisely
the aim of terrorism. We should instead show
those guilty for these atrocities that despite all
our shortcomings, we are a nation united against
evil aggression and the slaughter of innocent
people. We must not rest until terrorists every-
where understand that the resolve of the Ameri-
can people carmot be broken.

prohibitive. No human life is too insigniﬁcant to
avenge. For the second time, we must bring
truth to Linco1n’s immortal words: that the gov-
ernment of, by, and for the people shall not per-
ish from this earth.

No challenge is too great. No fear is too J

Matthew Mcbermott
Mike Agnello
Alison Trinidad
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latirner
Amy Blevins
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell

Katie Howell

Meg Ferrara

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Layout Editor
Photo Editor
Photographer

Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be in the University
Center, by 5 pm on Friday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subn1is-
sions for content and length. Letters and colurrms do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

THE Rm;-Tort PHI

PINIONS

44l\I .. A At.‘.xL'.n. i.‘

OPlNlONS EDIIOR
FMAIl:KlR\X/ANB@\)VLlJEl)U

Fighting a wr we must wn

On Tuesday morning, the
United States was attacked by a
faceless enemy, one who hides in
darkness and commits his evil on
unsuspecting, innocent civilians.
As Prime Minister Blair commented,
this was not only an attack on
America, but an attack on our way
of life, on our very civilization.

And as President Bush has said
several times now, the attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Penta-
gon were acts of war. Moreover, in
this war, there can be no middle
ground; there is no chance for peace
without victory. The barbarians who
struck us so deeply have shown that
they have nothing but abiding hatred
for America. This is truly total war.
There will be no end until either we or
they are utterly destroyed.

America has already attempted to
ﬁght terrorism without total commit-
ment. Following the 1993 attempt to
topple the World Trade Center and
the 1995 bombing of the Murrah
building, Congress passed the Anti-
Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty
Act of 1996, which made financially
liable the countries that supported
terrorism.

Unfortunately, the Act was not
enforced and when Stephen Flatow
in 1998 attempted to sue Iran, in
retrbution for his daughter, Alisa’s,
death in an Islamic jihad bombing, he
faced Clinton Justice Department law-
yers in court.

At the anniversary of the Pan—Am
103 bombing, President Clinton bit his
lip and reminded the mourners that he
felt their pain, but achieved only a weak
compromise that sent the two men di-
rectly responsible to The Hague for
trial, while leaving Libya blameless and
any other country
that may have been
responsible. The re-
sult of these half-
hearted attempts to
defeat terrorism and our general sense
of invulnerability was Tuesday’s hor-
riﬁc destruction.

Unless America, in conjunction
with a global coalition, acts swiftly and
forcefully to defeat terrorism and the
governments that sponsor it, we can
expect nothing but to be drawn into a
never-ending conflict, like that be-
tween Israel and the PLO.

We have a target. The evidence
against Osarna bin Laden, an exiled
Saudi millionaire, is mounting. Presi-
dent Bush has named him as the prime
suspect in these attacks. Those who
have been identiﬁed as the perpetra-
tors have been connected with his or-
ganizations.

Secretary of State Colin Powell’s
mission to Pakistan has resulted in

Letters to the Editor

E 0 statement on terrorist attacks

Dear Editor,

RIGHT or THE AISLE
BRETT T. KIRWAN ‘O4

(bumpy OFASSOOA TFD

Acts or WAR: Atrocities like Tuesday’s bombings will happen again unless America commits to total war.

that country demanding that the
Taliban turn over bin Laden, who has
been living in Afghanistan since 1996.
The Taliban government of Afghani-
stan, a radical Sunni Muslim sect de-
spised by many other Muslim states,
has long aided and harbored bin
Laden. Without its complicity, attacks
like this could not
take place. The
Taliban must be
treated as an equal
enemy of the United
States. As long as
the governments which support ter-
rorism exist, so will terrorism. A war
which truly seeks to destroy terror-
ism must also destroy the corrupt re-
gimes in Afghanistan, Libya, and Pal-
estine.

Many of TV’s talking heads,
however, have argued that the best
way to solve our problem is to cap-
ture and execute only those directly
responsible, perhaps bin Laden and
his lieutenants with a few members
of the Taliban thrown in for good
measure.

However, this gingerly approach
has already been tried against aban-
doned Afghan camps and a Sudanese
aspirin factory. Pinpoint cruise mis-
sile strikes conducted from hundreds

of miles off-shore or miles in the air
will not sufﬁce. We must strike hard
with the full force of our military.

Fortunately, in his weekly radio
address, President Bush revealed the
govemment’s plan to conduct a long,
heavy but carefully constructed re-
taliatory attack. He also stated
America’s intention not only to exter-
minate the animals responsible, but
also to destroy their homes, busi-
nesses, places of worship, govem-
ment buildings, and military institu-
tions.

The American public must recog-
nize that we are in a total war, much
like World Wars I and H but also very
different in that our enemy is too cow-
ardly to face us. Instead we must hunt
them down like dogs, drive them from
their dens, and ensure that this will
never happen again.

The cost may be high. Additional
American lives might be lost and in-
nocent civilians might be killed in the
countries we target. Nevertheless, we
must do what is necessary to achieve
final victory of terror and its practitio-
ners. We must be ready to ﬁght with
the attitude voiced by Sen. John
McCain on Thursday, ‘‘I say to our
enemies: We are coming. God may
have mercy on you, but we won’t.”

Sincerely,

Please answer your call to duty, whatever it may be.

The Executive Committee of the Student Body

The magnitude of the terrorist attack on America on

September 11, 2001, has become evident to each of us, no
matter our age or background. We at Washington and Lee
University often speak of our community, but on this day
our community became much larger. Today, when we speak
of our community, we refer to one nation, uniﬁed in a cause
to save lives, protect one another, and punish an aggressor.
We, as members of this greater, united, American commu-
nity, have a duty to all who have fallen, to the families of
these individuals, to those who laid the framework of this
mighty country, and to all of those who will follow, to do
everything within our ability to aid in the restoration of our
country. Just as General Robert Edward Lee understood his
duty to his country after the Civil War in aiding though
education in the restoration of a broken land, we must now
realize our duty to our nation in its time of need.

Do not ever allow yourself to believe that you cannot
make a difference; you can and you will! There will be many
calls to duty over the next few days, weeks, months, or
even years. But the most immediate calling for all of us is to
give blood. We strongly encourage every able member of
our community to give blood at his or her soonest conve-
nience, even if this is a week from now—it will still be needed.

Death row inmate seeks correspondence

Dear Editor,

I am a male prisoner on death row at Arizona State Prison
and would like mail from anyone who would like to write and
who would enjoy receiving letters from mein retnm. I am with-
out family and have already been in this cell for over 17 years.

This life has been a hard and lonely one and I would be
grateful for any company anyone would care to give. Please
feel free to talk about or ask whatever you are curious about.
Being a condemned prisoner, I am kept strictly isolated and
locked in my cell.

Anyone interested please write:

Michael Correll #5 1493

Arizona State Prison/P.O. Box 3400

Florence, AZ 85232
Sincerely,

Michael Correll

Editor is Note: The Arizona State Prison conﬁrmed that
Michael Correll is indeed a long-time death row inmate.
His case is currently under appeal.

PAGE 3

Orientation needs
Improvement

“Customs” system is adequate, but
informal interaction is more valuable

“Confusion” is the key word in the ﬁrst few weeks
of life as a freshman. Challenges are thrown in our di-
rection every minute of every day, both in class and
out. So many new experiences hit us so quickly and the
days are so packed with discovery that time even seems
to slow down to accommodate it all; the passing of
these last two weeks has felt like two months. The
situation can easily become overwhelming, especially
once classes start.

As much as we’d like to believe otherwise, we
freshmen do need guidance in order to process the
deluge of infor-
mation. Thus, the
university is
saddled with the
delicate and difﬁ-
cult task of familiarizing new arrivals with the nuances
of campus life, not only on the social front, the most
pressing concern at the outset of orientation, but also
academics and athletics. On the whole, the university
does a respectable job, yet there is deﬁnitely room for
improvement.

Orientation can inform us of the basics of col-
lege life, from the polices of the Honor Code and the
three strike system to when the dining hall opens
and how the university card works. For the most part,
it does these things well.

These sorts of things are easily digestible in as-
semblies and organized discussions, and they must be
shared in order to make sure everyone is one the same
page. However, there remain certain things that, no
matter how hard the administration, upperclassmen,
and alumni spend and plan, just carmot be taught in an
assembly.

While I cannot blame the university for trying, I
can say that tolerance carmot be learned from a single
two-hour play. Dean of Freshman Dawn Watkins has
the right idea in spreading out these lessons over a
longer time period with the new Customs program, yet
only time will tell if students are willing to participate in
what can now only be called an experiment. I would not
expect it to succeed wildly at the outset; rather, it will
take at least a few years of ﬁne-tuning before it be-
comes an institution.

Neither can a slew of orientation programs auto-
matically instill a palpable sense of community. It does
not matter how many times speakers have issued their
numerous warm welcomes to the university commu-
nity or how many times we are all gathered in the same
room, I still feel as if I have a long way to go until I have
found my place at Washington and Lee.

I don’t have the fanatical devotion to the school that
I’ve noticed in alumni, yet then again, I haven’t had time
to get involved in the school affairs. While it is by no
means a failure on the part of organizers, it is just some-
thing that cannot be accomplished in such a short span.
Communities are built over time. Once again, the
attraction of an extended program becomes clear.

Yet as I’ve found, orientation doesn’t begin and
end with school-sponsored events. My greatest re-
source for knowledge of the “ins and outs” of W&L
has been informal conversations with upperclassmen,
such as dorm counselors and the brothers I meet at
fraternity parties. All have been helpful and willing to
talk with freshmen, and while it may seem like common
courtesy to them, it means so much more to an inse-
cure newcomer like me.

Additionally, there were the pre-orientation out-
doors and outreach programs, and while I regret not
participating in those events, I do know that nearly
everyone who participated took with them the valu-
able insights of their group leaders. Whether they real-
ize it or not, upperclassmen shape the freshman orien-
tation experience more than just about anything else.

Keeping that point in mind, it is clear that the Big
Brother and Big Sister pro gram is an aspect of orienta-
tion worthy of further attention. While I appreciated
what my Big Sister had to tell me, I wish that I had been
in contact with her sooner.

Other freshmen mentioned to me they never got in
touch with their Big Brother or Big Sister, which makes
me believe that the entire program could be in need of
(at best) a little more rigorous discipline or (at worst) a
comprehensive overhaul.

Ultimately, the lesson I learned from observing fresh-
man orientation is that oftentimes the informal means of
communication proved more useful than scheduled ac-
tivities. School-sponsored events can only go so far,
and it’s the one—on-one communication that the under-
classmen truly need during those ﬁrst few steps into life
at Washington and Lee. Because of all the support I’ve
received, I’m looking forward to a great four years here
with more anticipation than I ever could have expected.

" DOE—ETED FRESHMAN
ANDREW LATIMER ‘O5

TALKBACK: areour feelings about the new tailgate?  

“The food is deligh .”
-Peter Moore ‘03

“Iwishthatthereweremorepeople.”
-Thaxton Mauzy ‘02

“Best ever.”
-Pres. Boetsch ‘69

“Greatoppoitunityto socialize.”
-Austin Calhoun ‘03

-Anne Richey ‘O3

  

 

PAGE 4

- 

700 C lal9’s forum for hate

Religious right leaders Jerry
Falwell and Pat Robertson have the
tragic events of Tuesday all ﬁgured
out. Falwell joined Robertson on his
television program, the 700 Club, to
deliver a message that is among one
of the most frustrating things he has
ever uttered.

“I really believe that the pagans,
and the abortionists, and the
feminists, and the gays and the
lesbians who are actively trying to
make that an alternative lifestyle, the
ACLU, People for the American Way
—— all of them who have tried to
secularize America - I point the ﬁnger
in their face and say, ‘You helped this
happen.”’ That’s right, these two
believe that all those named have
forced God “to lift the curtain and
allow the enemies of America to give
us probably what we deserve.”

With Robertson sitting—in as
Falwell’s yes—man, nodding at every
uttered word, the two continued to
blame others.

Apparently the United States
federal court system and others are
also to blame for the secularization of
America as they continue to drive God
out of the public square. The
Constitutional protection of
separation of church and state
apparently doesn’t
matter. Abortionists
are to blame because,

“... when we kill 40
million innocent little
babies, we make God mad.”

Reaction to the comments thus
far has been anything but positive.
Ralph G. Neas, President of People for
the American Way called the remarks
“absolutely inappropriate and
irresponsible.” He went on to add that
the remarks were clearly against
President Bush’s plea for national
unity. A spokeswoman for the
American Civil Liberties Union said
the group, “will not justify the Falwell-
Robertson remarks with a comment.”
There has also been universal

LEEr OF CENTER , ,,

 
   

  

COLWITFSY C

J

AMEN! Falwell, well—l<nown religious blowhard, went too far in blaming the attacks on gays and abortionists.

disapproval and ‘outrage from
organizations representing gays,
lesbians, and pro-choice supporters.
Falwell continued to be
unrepentant later in an interview with
The Washington Post. The
conservative zealot stated the following,
“I put all the blame legally and morally
on the actions of the
terrorist/’But,

America s secular and

N1cEoLAsRAnsEY‘03 anti-Christian

environment left us
open to our Lord’s [decision] not to
protect. When a nation deserts God and
expels God from the culture . . . the result
is not good.” The White House,
however, did make a statement calling
the remarks, “inappropriate,” adding
that, “the President does not share
those views.”

Now these statements really
speak for themselves, but I, for one,
am outraged that two shameless,
judgmental men would push such an
agenda under these circumstances. I
cannot imagine even a small faction

of individuals that lost their lives in
this tragedy agreeing with the
statements of Falwell and Robertson.

I am even willing to push the
envelope on this and ask, how is this
different from Hitler blaming the Jews
for Nazi Germany’s woes? How does
this differ from Osama bin Laden and
his followers blaming America and the
rest of the Western world as the cause
of their problems?

In my view, these statements have
badly tarnished the reputation of the
religious right, and I am happy to see
the White House making a point to
separate itself from the statements.

What terriﬁes me the most is that
people turn to Falwell and Robertson
for religious wisdom and counsel.
Right now we are at a time when many
Americans are struggling to find
strong footing in their faith.

If anyone watching these two
were to agree with these statements
and jump on their bandwagon, it would
only be another life lost in what is
clearly the greatest American tragedy.

   

Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of
California’s Ninth District, was the only Congressman
to vote “Nay” in Saturday’s roll—call vote to grant Presi-
dent Bush the authority to use “all necssary and ap-
propriate force” against terrorists. Her refusal to sup-
port America’s defense of freedom and Western civili-
zation has earned her the inaugural Coward of the Week
award.

The Senate voted 98-0 in support of the measure.

Late Friday, saying that “Far too many innocent
people have already died,” she made an made an im-
passioned plea for restraint, but
failed to sway a single one of her
House colleagues.

Representative Lee, who
serves on the House Committee on
International Relations, and has a
Masters in social work from the
 University of Cailfornia at Berke-

, RANK[N ley. Since her entry into Con gress,
Lee has been a strong advocate for diplomacy. She
joined in introducing legislation for the creation of a
U.S. Department of Peace as well as a Peace Academy,
which would provide a four—year curriculum in “peace
education.”

 

and of increasing humanitarian aid to the Communist

 

C1)L'RIF§YOFUI\HV’l-1?:SfIY(F(A:Allf(XLNlA ArBi=ru<nEY
LEFIY: Represenattive Lee serves California’s ultra—liberal Ninth District,
just east of San Francisco in the Berkeley and Alameda area. She

succeeded her former boss, Rep. Ronald V. Dellums.

New Yorker recounts her agonizing week after

Being from New York, with a sister in Washington,
D.C., this last week has been nothing short of agoniz-
ing. To take my mind off the last week, I was looking
through my photo album, ﬂipping through pictures of
the last couple of years, when I came across pictures of
my senior prom, held atop the World Trade Center.

Shot after shot of dolled-up faces smushed together,
and I remember shoving the camera into any unfortu-
nate, unoccupied passerby with the demand, “Take a
picture of me and my date. Make sure you get the view
in the background!”

It_ was a really big deal for us to have our prom
there, and that fact never escaped any of my class-
mates’ attention as we commemorated our final days of
high school dancing above the New York skyline.

Then I began looking through pho— 
tographs from the summer and stopped , I
when I found pictures from the =
Radiohead concerts held in Liberty
State Park, right in front of the Statue of
Liberty. Always a picture junkie, I had thrust my ille-
gally confiscated disposable camera into some alterna-
rocker’s hands: “Just get a picture of me with the Twin
Towers behind me.”

It’s especially hard for me to write about the attack
on America, because I generally try to convey my
article’s message with a mild infusion of humor. And
this week, when I was asked to write something, before
everything happened, this article was going to be about

  
    

the joys of living off campus, or something else of equal
consequence.

Existing in the proverbial W&L bubble never both-
ered me until this week, when I suddenly feel so far
removed from reality. When some-
thing like this happens, it is such a
painful exercise in putting things in
perspective.

Two nights before the attack, I
got pulled over (something new and
different), and my roommates said, “well, look on the
bright side, maybe your name will be in the paper.”

Two days later, the only thing I see in our country’s
media sources is an inﬂux of articles detailing every
angle of the tragedy. I was worried about a $30 ticket;

now there’s over 200 stories of debris

NQRTHERNER’s EXPOSURE filtering through the streets of New
KRIS POLLINA ‘03

York City.

My eighteen-year-old sister at
Georgetown calls me every Saturday
and Sunday morning so I can hear about her freshman
weekend transgressions. On Tuesday, as I repeatedly
attempted to call her, all I cared about was whether or
not she was alive. When I finally did get through, she
said the only window in her tiny freshman dorm room
overlooked the burning Pentagon.

I stared out the window of my own house and was
overcome with the frustrating sensation that it was dif-
ficult for me to really think anything I do is important,

. . . I came across pictures of my
senior prom, held atop the World
Trade Center.

LE1§lNG'l"CIN:
COFFEE
—-ITPT’ .

§':|'i"r.- .'IA‘fa}ffﬁl'a.-'a.5a?d‘.'q'_g.'

H$PRl3.'-ED -C.-'I.P'Pl.l'C'C'|l‘«lCI'- BN5lIl..S - l‘rll.|FFll*lS - '§.§l"-.C'l$5.r'u"'l'l'$
9 ‘r'|'P.‘5T WASIIDEGTDN STREET * LISliEf'n'G'l'U'N + -‘ill-ll-|5$${i

.“'— ,
,_._-.s.-_____--.__
,, .
.,_ . ' "
‘ha

I

+_ .

‘IE, -’.:.,.:.,..-: .._- .. ..
'*-‘_f.:..'..'.-.._-_-_I'_-.'__'._._' 

after watching the NYC skyline crumble to the ground.

Though I generally try to avoid waxing existential,
this calamity was like the straw that broke the camel’s
back in my overwhelming suspicion that perhaps my
complacent adolescent existence is
trivial.

helplessness, I think about VMI and
how they’re probably contemplat-
ing whether or not they’ll be de-
ployed to the Middle East by the end of the week, while
I’m mulling over a metrical analysis of Thomas Hardy
poetry.

It’s almost to the point where I feel guilty being
happy when I wonder how many of those World Trade
Center workers were handicapped and were physically
deterred from even the hope of escaping.

How many children have been
rendered orphans in the last week?
How can I afford to worry about
anything in my simple collegiate
realm when there’s a much greater
stake at hand?

Never in our country’s span of history has it seen
something like this. To be alive and, moreover, old enough
to be aware, during this time, disturbs me even more.

When my dad talks ad nauseum about the Vietnam
War, I can do nothing but nod in awe. Years and years
from now, when I’m relating this time to my own kids,

She championed the cause of being soft on Cuba 4

To aggravate my feelings of

How many children have been
rendered orphans in the last week?

MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 17. 2001

oward of the Week

Arr irregular feature of the l{2’;z,g»z‘///22¢ I9’/ii Opinions $%‘;.‘it‘.t'.l{)I3.

Representative Brbara Lee D-Calif.

    

Powwow: Rep. Lee meets with Al Gore, who also failed to meet the call of duty

island following her attendance in a
“citizen’s delegation to Cuba.” One
of her first actions in Congress was
to criticize the bombing of Iraq, say-
ing that the U.S. had a “special, ur-
gent need to exhaust all diplomatic ap-
proaches.” Apparently, the Gulf War
didn’t “exhaust all diplomatic ap-
proaches.” She also identified AIDS
and world poverty as national security issues, calling for
increased global aid to be offset by drastically decreased
defence spending.

In her speech on Friday, Representative Lee referred
to the Gulf of Tonkin resolution. Her vote puts her in good
company, with the only two dissenters in that vote, Sena-
tors Ernest Gruening D-Alaska and
Wayne Morse D—Ore.

Lee will also share history with
Jeanette Rankin, the first female mem-
ber of Congress and the only person
to vote against declaring war on Ja-
pan in 194]. Rankin also voted
against declaring war on Germany in
1917. She only served two terms, leav-
ing in 1943. Neither Gruening nor
Morse was re—elected following his “nay” vote. We hope
the same happens to Representative Lee.

Brett Kirzmm aim’ /l/7r/rem L,a/2)?/€110/zfrl/11/fed to f/Jff piere.

terrorist strike

they’ll probably do the same courtesy reaction.

And if I still have my old photo album, I can show
them pictures from my senior prom, and from the con-
certs at Liberty State Park, and it will probably depress
me even more then.

For now, I’m working on regaining my sense of
reality and abandoning my self—deprecating sentiments
of triviality, while still praying for those who were in-
volved firsthand.

Even as I reread this article, I realize how much I
have been taking for granted in my last twenty—and-a-
half years on this earth. While we will continue to mourn

GRUENING

MORSE

for those who have been affected by this senseless act ,

of terrorism, I keep trying to see a sliver of hope or
some degree of optimistic karma, perhaps in the way
that America has come together, perhaps as the life af-
firming implications of it all.

As Kevin Spacey said at the
end of American Beauty, “I can’t
feel anything but gratitude for ev-
ery second of this stupid life.”
Difficult as it may be to feel any-

thing but grief and vengeance, I do believe that ev- »

erything happens for a reason, and by the same to-
ken, everything works out for the best.

My heart goes out to anyone who lost someone,
and I hope that someday America can regain its sense
of reality, too.

God bless America.

trnrrrsraenurttzilleo.eve|.eonr

 

 

Tmmmuwm

 

  

W&LlFE EDITOR
EitiH;BiE\r\sA@\xiu.n1J

 

LIFE

A ‘. MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2001

   

:Amer1ca stands her ground

A

VVVVV!"?V?"’?’!"FVV"!

 

I4E‘-~.§‘~.4r‘'~4‘r'~¢

/

Ihﬂﬁﬁ t/'9-v"'v'\
Iv

 

I-

 

*T5L*‘'_~-F1-'! '*

is E... NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 A) 4454-4435

ON.-« M04104? NIGHT FOOTBA
r.~ 8~’8ALLTc9u‘RNEY
D.- LA’DIE$NIGl£T~ gaau.
H." KARAOKE
FRI: D.J.J‘(€}E
SAT.~ “DJ. MIX-MASTER M4343
sum.- NFL sun Y TICKET

In nun . -'u_ 4 u t. u -u-‘nu nu nu --n u ----.4 -I; n ---‘u--V | |||

9 wt 4
_‘:-'.i_

4}r}4&v3/-L4}*é»4 nyﬁ/.-'y'.i 4 M 4
~‘4-4_‘~..r~..-4

nu--. -I'|- unuuuu .-
-

 

i

 

 J l1wzf.: raafﬁonr‘ scrum‘ wimawrxrs 4

4

H.

 GREEN 'S%t=L44l"[1_'§4l-if) BAKE? _?CJ_l_'a=1_TE? 

‘I-

444;-rmvﬁia 9*"
gr _

-'-t
NNr~..r»‘-~.=_r--.1:-‘-~;-_~. N i'~.s--.5-~.-4

3

 

.,__.‘f...

I u
' -'--nu nu 4 cu u a nun: uuﬁu

‘K

  
 

/
XN\I\4‘_s\EtssP+4N¥3&\r\t\s§¢\t\¢\N\\V\\/

  
 

 

PAGE 5

Alumni Survivors

As reported to the Alumni Office, not an official or complete list of names

Nick Adler

Kris Ahrend
Edwin Allen
James Ambrosini
Virginia Apple
Jay Arnold
Meredith Attwell
Jim Awad

Scott Babka
Brian Bagdonas
Jeff Bailey
Marshall Barroll
John Battarazzi
Joyce Bautista
Aaron Beam
Pearson Beardsley
Alison Beardsley
Tom Becker
Darien Berkowitz
T. Blair

Jake Blumenthal
Bret Bowerman
Rolan Boyce
Justin Brady
Christine Bragg
Guy Brossy
Aaron Brotherton
Christopher Brown
Kim Brunson
Shep Buckman
Sascha Burns
David Buschman
Dave Butow
William Buxton
Robert Buxton
Chris Calton
Childs Cantey
Jessica Carter
Derek Caner
Christopher Cartmill
Rich Cassone
Erika Cassutti
Peter Cavalier
Brendan Chao
Richard Chapman
Roland Chase
Maureen Chase
Greg Chow
William Christ
Timothy Cleans
Tim Cleary

Gary Coleman
Jeff Cook

Josh Cook
Ashley Copps
Dana Cornell
Dan Cotter
Sean Cronin
Mark Crosby
Taylor Crothers
Jim Crutchﬁeld
Kevin Cumbus
Andy Cunagin

George Currall
Michelle Dawson

Richard deAlessandrini

Stephen DeLisle
Dave Demilt
Chris Dewhurst
Annamarie Dewhurst
Janet Doliveria
Ali Dominick
Charles Doumar
Mirella Dragleva
Patrick Driscoll
Anthony Dvarskas
Scott Dynan

Kip Ebel

Ryan Elliot

Mike Everitt
Adam Faillace
Meagan Fernstrum
Philip Ficks

John Fidler
Megan Fink

Chip Flanagan
Walter Foster
Key Foster
Courtney Fowler
Larkin Fowler
Jamie Fuller

Ann Fuller

Allen Gillespie
Kelly Gillespie
William Gilmer
Wesley Givens
Jonah Glick
Walter Goldewski
Ross Goldstein
Lynette Goodman
Keith Grant
Brian Greef

John Gula
Dayton Haigney
Henry Harrison
Erin Harrson
Grellan Harty
Josh Harvey
Christy Harvey
Laiiy Hautan
Sarah Hawkins
Geoffrey Haydon
Jed Hazlett

Mike Healey
Josh Herrity
Tom Hespos
James Hodge
Hollister Hovey
David Hunter
Eric Hunter

Julie Hwang
Andrew Jacobson
Jason Jenkins
Deena Johnson
David Johnson
Sarah Jones

J.P. Josephson
Ashlie Kauffman
Doug Kaufman
Gregory Kendrick
Joe Kerr

Mike King

John Kingston
Mark Kinniburgh
Shelby Lamar
Maynard Lanoux
Kristin Lawrence
David Lawrence
Jeff Lee

Carolyn Lee
Armistead Lemon
David Levinson
Hillary Lewis

Tina Locatelli
Charles Lockyer
Kristen Lockyer
Scott Lofranco
Suzanne Lucas
Carrie Luria
Robbie MacNaughton
Dana MacNaughton
Torn Maddi

Matt Malloy

Ken Manganiello
Doug Martinson
Gam Mattingly
Michael McAllister
Brennan McBride
Megan McCloskey
Mark McDannald
Dave McDannald
Sean McManus
Francis McWilliams
Ryan McWilliams
Erin Meeker
Gordon Meeker
Cathy Merritt
Mike Miles

Alden Miles

Liz Miller

Jason Miller
Danielle Mires
Mark Mitschow
Hui Chu Mon
Price Moncrief
Kathleen Moroney
Stacy Morrison
Brian Murtaugh
Meredith Mylnar
Tara Newell

Chris Noland
Trevor Norris

Jeff Nuckolls

Matt O’Brian
Andy Olmen
MarguerineOmdorf
Thomas Otis
Jennifer Owens
Keryn Paier

Peter Parker

Bill Parks, Jr.
Jessica Parrillo
Jenny Peil
Keith Pelt
Gwendolyn Perrilliat
Dana Petersen
Stephen Philipson
Blair Postman
Elissa Pruett
Billy Putnam
Colleen Quinn
Emily Ramey
Tyler Ratcliffe
Becky Rees
John Refo
Hilary Rhodes
Katherine Riddle
Dave Ridlon
Keith Rinn
Denis Riva

John Robinson
Elizabeth Rodd
Timothy Ronda
Steve Ross
Ashley Rowe
Chris Santora
Marc Santora
Jill Schatz

Laura Schramm
Scott Schroeder
Alex Sedgwick
Alyssa Sellers
Kelly Sewell
Andrew Shapira
Paul Shea

Ben Sherman
Crystal Simpson
Alex Skove
Kristi Slafka
Elias Smith

Tobi Smith
Scott Smith
Mason Smith
Marshall Snyder
Dansozomenu
Chris Spletzer
Vivian Stone
Courtney Stovall
Ben Swinburne
Nate Taylor
Keith Taylor
Jackie Terrebone
Chris Testrake
Matt Theodorakis
Jason Treat
Jamie Tucker

J ulieann Ulin
Nathan Urquhart
Tina Van der Steel
Peter Van Son
Laura Vaughan
Thomas Vinson

Andrea Wahlquist
Robert Walker
Lauren Walter
Amy Washburn
Bryan Watkins
Lauren Weedon
Mary Welder
Jim Wenke
Richard Whalen
Katherine Wheelock
Bruce Whipple
Matt Widener
Hunter Williams
Lindsay Wills
Lauren Willson
Ali Wilson

Kim Wilson
Edwin Wilson
Chris Wilson

An Wise

Amy Wood

Lee Wright
Stephanie Wright
Jon Wright
Geoff Wright
Jonathan Wright
Bob Wyckoff
Dorothy Yuan
Eric Zavolinsky

JEREMY FRANKLIN
SI>ORTs EDITOR
EMAIL: ERANI<LINj@\ruI.EDU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2001 *

TEE R1; ?(’;§—~’l7t,‘%'l\’i PI-II

R... PORTS

Generals smoke Guilrd in home, ODAC opener I

 

Offense, defense click as W&L drops
Quakers 27-6 for first win of the year

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee racked up 380 yards of
total offense and forced two key turnovers on
defense to knock off Guilford 27-6 in the teams’
Old Dominion Athletic Conference opener Satur-
day at Wilson Field.

Sophomore Peter Dean completed 20-of-34
passes for 227 yards, and junior Jay Thomas
caught eight of those for -124 yards. Junior Chris
Sullivan ran for 100 yards and one score, and
senior Marc Watson found the end zone twice.

“We’re trying to start a tradition where we
must not ever lose two in a row,” said W&L coach
Frank Miriello, whose team dropped a 34-3 deci-
sion to Johns Hopkins last week. “Whenever we
lose a game, we’ve got to come back with a ven-
geance.

“We’1l do whatever it takes not to lose, and
that’s what happened today.”

W&L’s defense limited Guilford to 201 yards of
total offense and made a pair of big plays to pre-
vent the Quakers from crawling back into the game.
Sophomore Tim Wells returned an interception 21
yards to set up a ﬁeld goal in the second quarter,
and senior Jeﬂ Bahl recovered a fumble in the fourth
quarter with the Generals nursing a 13-6 lead.

“They were moving the ball pretty well at those
points,” Bahl said. “It was important, especially
when the game was close, that we made a few big
plays on defense. When they’re trying to come
back and they turn the ball over, it just takes the
air out of their offense. The defense gets on their
heels, and that’s all she wrote.”

Mike Ketchum, in his 1 1th year as head coach
of the Quakers, believed his team made too many
errors to have a shot at winning the contest.

“We just made way too many mistakes to try
to win a football game,” he said. “Every time we
made a mistake, they capitalized on it beautifully.
Our biggest problem now is that we’re going to
have to ﬁgure out if we can play football without

Men’ssoccerworking upto

IN THE TRENCI-IE5: The Washington and Lee offensive line, one Of head coach Frank Miriello’s concerns for the team entering the 2001 season,
helped the Generals accumulate 380 yards of total offense Saturday against Guilfordjunior Chris Sullivan carried the ball 19 times for 100 yards
behind the lines run blocking, and sophomore quarterback Peter Dean threw for 227 yards and was sacked just Once.

making mistakes all over the place.”

Watson capped off a nine-play, 52-yard drive
with a TD run from six yards out and senior Brad
Wiginton hit a 25-yard ﬁeld goal to give the Gen-
erals a 10-0 first quarter lead. The Quakers then
drove down inside the W&L 10 to open the sec-
ond quarter, but Matt Sanders missed a 26-yard
ﬁeld goal.

Wiginton hit his second ﬁeld goal from 39
yards following Wells’ interception.

Guilford put together another long drive early
in the third quarter, but W&L stopped them in
the red zone and Sanders missed another ﬁeld
goal. After forcing a three-and-out, junior quar-
terback Oren Robinson threw a 16-yard TD pass
to classmate Chris McKinney.

The Quakers held on defense and got the
ball back in W&L territory. But Robinson

BY DAVE CROWELL



if lEI=I. RI\AsTA\ .v\/ The Ringtmi

fumbled on the second play of the drive, and the
Generals responded with a 60-yard drive and a
Sullivan eight-yard touchdown.

On W&L’s next possession, a 21-yard dash by
Sullivan and a facemask penalty got the Generals to
the Guilford 20. Two plays later, Dean completed an
18-yard pass to Thomas, and Watson then ran in for
the score from a yard out.

W&L stays at home but steps out of ODAC play
Saturday against Centre College. For now, though,
the Generals know that they took care of business
in their home and conference opener.

“We decided to push (the Hopkins game) aside,
and the ODAC season is the season that really
counts,” Bahl said. “We stayed relatively focused
and had a good game plan. It’s nice to get a win and
realize we have a talented squad. It was time to get it

going.”

Taffe scored her fourth goal of the

2000 championship form

BY GEOFF WHITE
SEORTs WRITER

The men’s soccer team faced two
challenges this week. They were un-
able to play to their full potential
against VMI, and fell victim to bad for-
tune in an overtime heartbreaker
against Averett.

The Generals won their ﬁrst home
game of the season Thursday, edging
outVM1 2-1. Sophomore Jacob Stoehr
opened the scoring for the Generals
12 minutes into the match, off an as-
sist from sophomore Philip Miller.

Less than a minute into the sec-
ond half, junior Brad Murphy took a
long pass from Miller and ran the ball
down the ﬁeld to beat VMI goaltender
John Simmons with a brilliant shot to
the far post. Although the goal was
ofﬁcially unassisted, Murphy gave
credit to teamwork.

“(Miller) created the play,” he said.
“I just made the run.”

Although they held the lead for
most of the game, the Generals’ play
was marked by several near misses.
VlVlI was ﬁnally rewarded for winning
several ball control contests when, in
the 64th minute of play, Austin Will-
iarns scored for the Keydets off an as-
sist from Jonathan Rios.

Despite the victory, coach Rolf
Piranian was far from happy with his
team’s performance.

“It was ugly,” Piranian said.
“We’re going to play better than this.
We’ve got to.”

The team came into Saturday’s
match in much better form. The Gen-

erals got on the board first, when
freshman Brian Pirkle dodged a de-
fender and stepped forward to beat
the goaltender with a low shot to the
far post.

Although this would be their only
goal of the game, the Generals passed
perfectly, cutting through a weak at-
tack and midﬁeld only to be denied by
Averett’s stingy defense. Junior Brad
Heam was outstanding in goal, mak-
ing two key saves late in the ﬁrst half.

Four minutes into the second half,
senior Generals defenseman Rick
Schnatz was called for pulling an op-
ponent down in the defensive box.
Averett was awarded a penalty kick,
and Chris Barocas scored the tying
goal. _

The Generals immediately set out
to regain the lead. Time after time they
attacked the Averett net, coming just
short of the go-aliead goal; several
shots sailed just over the crossbar.

VVith 15 minutes left in regulation,
Andrew Grimes put a shot past
Barocas. But the referee ruled the Gen-
erals offside, disallowing the goal.

The Generals owned the ﬁrst of the
two sudden-death overtime periods,
but were unable to convert. Three min-
utes into the second OT, Averett
sophomore Ake Soderstrom scored
off a throw-in to win the game.

“We didn’t convert,” Piranian said.
“We wasted a lot of great opportur1i—
ties.”

The Generals, now 1-1-1,open their
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
schedule with a road match against
Lynchburg on Thursday.

Volleyball wins Centre invite

FROM STAFF REPORTS

DANVII_.LE, Ky.—'lheWashington
andLeevolleyballteamirnprIovedto 8-1
by sweeping their ﬁve matches in the
Centre College Invitational.

The Generals defeated Centre,
LaGrange and Hollins on Saturday
and knocked off Rio Grande and
Emory and Henry on Sunday to win
the tournament.

Senior Lindsay Ruckeit was named
tournament MVP, and classmate Leslie
Fischbeckwasalsonamedtotheall-tour
narnentteam. '

FreshmanMichelleCnastairiposted 12
killsinW&L’s30-21,30-21,3021winover
Ceritre.l’<isthbeckliad10killsarrdsixblod<s

IntheGenerals’30-17,30-26,30-22vic—

tory overLaGrange, Ruckerthad 14kil]s
and nine digs.

TlietoumarnentMVPhad13ldllsand
ninedigsasW&LendedSaturday witha
30-2,30Z3,30-11winag,ainstHollins.Se-
nior Sara Heusel set a school record for
aoesinagarnewithseveninthethirdfrarne.

The Generals picked up where they
1eﬂotfwitha30-23, 26-30, 30-23, 30-23
win over Rio Grande on Sunday. Ruckert
ta1liedawhopping25 kills, andfreshman
Jennifer Lux had 52 assists.

W&L capped off the weekend and
securedthetouinarnentwinwitha21-30,
30-22, 30-20, 30-19 victory over Emory
and Henry.

The Generals the Wasps again
Wednesday when they open the ODAC
athome at6:30 pm

 

AssIsTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee field
hockey team christened their new
home on Saturday afternoon, playing
the first of many home games on the
$2.5 million W&L Turf Field. Despite
a furious late-game charge, the Gen-
erals fell to Randolph-Macon 4-3.

“It’s nice to get the ﬁrst one under
our belt,” coach Wendy Orrison said
about the inaugural home game. “I
think we assumed that we’d have a
huge advantage on the turf, but we
really didn’t during this game.”

Randolph-Macon took advantage
of a relaxed W&L squad with three
unanswered goals in the first half. Jun-
ior forward Mara Friedman scored
first for the Yellow Jackets with 16:30
to play. Randolph-Macon followed
with two more goals in less than 15
minutes.

“I was disappointed by Friday’s
practice,” Orrison said. “I don’t think
we practiced seriously and it showed
in that first half.”

Despite the problems before half-
time, the Generals (1-2, 1-1 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) gener-
ated a huge rally and put forth a great
second half effort. Sophomore Kelly

season with 21:50 left in the game.

Freshman Grace Barlow moved W&L
within a goal when she scored off an
assist from classmate Meredith Walker.

When Randolph-Macon scored
with 4:42 left in the game, the Yellow
Jackets placed W&L in a tough
spot: down two with relatively little
time left. But the Generals definitely
made. Randolph-Macon earn this
victory.

Sophomore Jessica Lake scored
with 2:20 left in the game and the
Generals threatened within the ﬁnal
minute, but the running clock ended
W&L’s chances.

“I was disappointed in the first
half, but very impressed by the play
in the second half,” the first-year
coach said. “So far, we’ve been a sec-
ond-half team, but we need to learn
to play a full 70 minutes.”

The Generals showed a similar
pattern on Wednesday afternoon,
but their late outburst overpow-
ered Hollins and the Generals took
a 3-1 victory, their first of the sea-
son.

After a scoreless first half, Hollins
struck first just 39 seconds into the sec-
ond half. The Generals trailed for the
next 15 minutes until Taffe started aquick

Women’s soccer icks up

IIE PHOTO

CONSERVATIVE TACKLE: Sophomore Heather Coleman attempts to steal the ball from Lynchburgs Amanda
Taylor in this Sept. 7 photo. W&L rebounded from a 41 loss to the Hornets with Old Dominion Athletic
Conference wins over Eastern Mennonite and Randolph-Macon. Lady General’s take on Bridgewater at
their next game on Tuesday, September 18 on the W&L fields.

Dean shines in second start under center for W&L I‘

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Just several weeks before Frank
Miriello began his seventh season as
head coach of the‘Washington and
Lee football program, he faced a grave
problem.

Due to injuries suffered in 2000,
junior Bobby Littlehale and sopho-
more Zack
M c Q u i g g
weren’t playing
football this year,
leaving Miriello
and the Generals
with few options
at quarterback.

Enter sopho-
more Peter Dean, somewhere on
the depth chart at defensive back
last season.

“The middle of July, we don’t have
a quarterback,” Miriello said. “We
called Peter and said, ‘How about
moving over from defense to of-
fense?’ And he did.”

After throwing two late intercep-
tions in the Generals’ 34-3 loss to
Johns Hopkins on Sept. 8, Dean re-
sponded by completing 20 passes
in 34 attempts for 227 yards in
W&L’s 27-6 win over Guilford Sat-
urday.

“Peter has been just a wonder-
ful surprise,” Miriello said. “He’s
getting better every single day. Just
a wonderful performance (Satur-
day), so we’re really pleased with
Peter’s play.”

Eight of Dean’s 20 completions
were thrown to junior wideout Jay
Thomas. The sophomore quarterback
said he beneﬁted from Thomas’ abil-
ity to create without the ball.

 

“He was getting open,” Dean said.
“I was just putting it there. Sometimes
he was just so wide open, and I had
plenty of time.” 1

That time came from another of
Miriello’s preseason concerns: the
offensive line. The Generals must

feel a lot better after amassing 380 9

yards of total offense against
Guilford.

Part of that can be attributed
to junior Chris Sullivan, who ran
19 times for 100 yards and one
touchdown, and senior Marc
Watson, who rushed for 60 yards
and two scores. The presence of
those two in the backfield —— or,
as happens often, as a slot re-
ceiver — makes life much easier
for W&L’s signal caller.

“It’s nice (to have Watson and
Sullivan available), especially when

you run those are patterns,” Dean said. 2 V

“I throw the ball literally ﬁve feet, and

they just take off. It takes so much 4

pressure off, especially late -in the
game.”

Dean didn’t play a perfect game 1‘

Saturday, as the Generals scored just
one touchdown on three first half pos-
sessions inside the Quaker 10. That

included coming up empty just before 2’

halftime, thanks in part to an over-

thrown pass to senior tight end Will ,,

Wilson on second—and-goal from the
three.

“I was a little disappointed in not *1

being able to take that one in there,”
Miriello said. “We missed a golden
opportunity. We’ve got to work on
that, but that will come.”

If Saturday was any indication, )

Dean will provide the Generals with

success from both in and outside of “

the red zone.

Second half surge W&:

 

   

BALI. CONTROL: Washington and Lee junior Kathleen Gibson (15) attempts to scoop up a loose ball while

fending off two Randolph-Macon defenders in the Generals’ 4-3 loss Saturday at the W&L Turf Field.’

Sophomorejessica lake, who scored with 2:20 remaining in the game, looks on.

tliree- goal spurt with an unassisted goal
with 19:07 to play in the game.

Taffe also scored what turned out
to be the game-winner seven minutes
later, this time off an assist from
Barlow. Lake added a goal for insur-
ance with 10:15 left, assisted by fresh-
man Ali Santoro.

Senior Deidra MacLeod made

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team earned its first victory of
the 2001 season with a 3-1 defeat of
host Randolph-Macon on Thursday
afternoon.

Freshman midfielder Martha
Allgood scored her first collegiate
goal a mere 2:38 into the game off
an assist from sophomore forward
Fontaine Marcoux. This gave
W&L a lead it would not relin-
quish.

Marcoux added a goal of her own
only eight minutes later, her first of
the season, to give the Generals a
2-0 lead before halftime. Fellow
sophomore Meghan Hayde assisted
on the score.

Senior midﬁelder and captain Kate
Bidwell scored her second goal of the
season late in the second half to build
a 3-0 lead. Randolph-Macon avoided
a shutout by scoring their lone goal
with 1:56 to play.

Freshman goalkeeper Emily
Barker made five saves and earned
her first collegiate victory for the
Generals.

seven saves in goal. "‘

“I think Kelly Taffe was awesome

and made a huge difference in both.q_

games,” Orrison said. “(Freshman) Kitt
Murphy and (sophomore) Maitena

Moure also played very well.” 1

Washington and Lee returns to ac-

tion on Wednesday with a 4:30 p.m. , K

home contest against Roanoke.

pair of road wins 1

In Saturday’s action, W&L con-

tinued their winning ways by dis- JD

posing of Eastern Mennonite 3-2 in

Old Dominion Athletic Conference A

play.
After the Royals struck midway
through the first half, sophomore

midﬁelder Heather Coleman scored ‘ “

less than two minutes later to tie the

game at 1-1. Marcoux and Hayde as-

sisted on the play.
Unlike the

game against

Randolph-Macon, the Generals faced 4

an uphill battle, as Eastern Menno-

nite scored a second goal before the-,4

end of the half. W&L, though,
quickly erased the deficit with two

quick scores only six minutes into the 2'

second half.
Senior Drew Powers tied the game
in the 48th minute and Bidwell added

the garne-winner for her third goal of y

the season. Marcoux assisted on both!’
goals to tie a school record for assists _
in a game with three.

She also accomplished the feat in

a game last year against Ferrum. J1

The Generals meet ODAC foe
Bridgewater in a 4 p.m. home contest

on Tuesday. 4,

 

l\/lI=HLSRIvAsrAvA/Tbe Rzr1gtumP}1i‘

V’

  
  
 

  

N1

,;.
P

2 3 MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 17. 2001

  
  

oro . .

- 5 HOME MEET: (Above) Senior Lucy Rankin runs in Saturday’s W&L Invitational. (Right) Sophomore

_’- ’ Andy Schorr, who won the men’s individual title, and junior David Hicks begin the race. (Below)
' ‘ Junior Burke Duncan won first-place honors in the women’s meet.



BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
cross country teams played host to a field of six
teams Saturday at the annual W&L Invitational.
The women placed second and the men took third
place in a tough invite that saw Old Dominion
Athletic Conference foe Roanoke sweep the team
championships.

Junior Burke Duncan won her second race in a
row, following on the heels of her victory last week-
end at the Virginia Wesleyan Invitational. Duncan
ran the race in a time of 27:58.66.

“As captain this season along with Gretchen
(Tencza) I just try to lead by example mostly, by
giving 100 percent every practice, and keeping
people focused and spirited,” Duncan said.

Senior co—captain Tencza placed eighth in the
ﬁeld of 44 runners, ﬁnishing the race in a time of
22:24.53, and classmate Lucy Rankin ran the race
in 22:46.19, finishing 10th.

“Our team’s greatest strength is in its unity and
its focus,” Duncan added. “Every workout we put
in 100 percent because we know that to remain

‘Cross country provides optimistic run

1" Duncan, Schorr win individual titles at W&L Invitational as teams turn in 2nd, 3rd-p/ace ﬁnishes

ODAC champions we have to train harder than all
the other teams.”

In the men’s race, coach John Tucker received a
strong effort from his entire team, but especially
from sophomore Andy Schorr, who won the men’s
competition in a time of 27:58.66.

“Andy gained a lot of confidence on a slow
course on Saturday,” Tucker said. “He now knows
he can run with the best in the ODAC.”

Junior Will Teichman followed Schorr, placing
ninth out of 51 runners with a time of 28:55.40.
Senior Ken Jackman finished 14th on the home
course in a time of 29:26.85.

In the team competition, W&L finished third
behind Roanoke and DeSales University.

“We had a good team effort,” Tucker said. “We
improved but have a way to go. If we continue to
work hard though, we’ll be strong by the end of
the season.

“We have a very firm foundation on which to
build,” Tucker added. “I feel we have a legiti-
mate shot at third place, or perhaps second, in
the conference.”

The men’s and women’s teams return to action
on Sept. 29 at the Roanoke Invitational.

  

 

 

...........4.~...:.;a_.»-—..a.~«, . _

SATURDAY’S FOOTBALL YARDLINE,

W&L 27, Guiltord 6
Guiltord 0 0 6 0 — 6
W&L 10 3 0 14-27
First Quarter

W&L —— Watson 6 run (Wiginton kick), 7:00
W&L — FG Wiglnton 25, 2:13
Second Quarter
W&L — FG Wlginton 39, 9:02
Third Quarter
GC — McKinney 16 pass from Robinson (kick tailed), 2:24
Fourth Quarter
W&L — Sullivan 8 run (Wiginton kick), 10:27
W&L — Watson 1 run (Wiginton kick), 6:15

A —- 2,700
(30 W&L

First downs 10 17
Rushes-yards 36-129 43-153
Passing yards 72 227
Return yards 104 74
Comp-att-int 6-16-1 20-34-0
Sacked-yards lost 1-5 1-7
Punts-avg 7-339 6-355
Fumbles-lost 2-1 0-0
Penalties-yards 4-20 6-57
Time of possession 24:10 35:50

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

RUSH|NG—Gui|tord: Robinson 19-65, Ballard 8-38, B. Lockhan 6-19,
Smith 1-4, C. Lockhart 1-4. W&L: Sullivan 19-107, Watson 18-60,
Overstreet 4-12, Dean 1-(-7).

PASSlNG—Gui|tord: Robinson 6-14-1 72, Smith 0-2-0 0. W&L: Dean
20-34-0 227.

RECElVlNG—Guiltord: McKinney 4-57, Lamotta 1-11, B. Lockhart 1-4.

W&L: Thomas 8-125, Watson 5-43, Sullivan 3-39, Rankin 1-13, Overstreet
1-4, Callaham 1-2, Vltta 1-1. '

MISSED FIELD GOALS—Guilford: Sanders 26, 31. W&L:
Wiginton 19.

.--. .»..«.-—...—.u;-no ~». .....g»y-. .

R E R D Write for the Phi! Contact
W  y___ W SCO BOA JeremyFranklin at

W&L SCHEDULEZ SEPTEMBER 18-24 :’Xa‘C“iun§1“g‘JvC:l,:;g:“S‘:_f:)‘::i‘:1:;:,:rI1tS
Tuesday, Sept. 18 Sept. 22-24 ‘
Golf Women’s Tennis

Buck Leslie Invitational, 8:45 a.m.

Women’s Soccer
Bridgewater at W&L, 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Sept. 19
Field Hockey

Roanoke at W&L, 4:30 p.m.
Volleyball

Emory & Henry at W&L, 6:30 p.m.

Thursday, Sept. 20
Men’s Soccer
W&L at Lynchburg, 4 p.m.

Sept. 22-23
Men’s Tennis
W&L Fall Classic, 9 a.m.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE
Team ’ Conference Overall
W L W L
Washington and Lee 1 0 1 1
Bridgewater 0 0 2 0
Emory and Henry 0 0 2 1
Randolph-Macon O 0 2 1
Catholic 0 0 1 1
Hampden-Sydney 0 0 1 1
Guiltord ' 0 1 1 2
Sept. 15 Results Week of Sept. 22
W&L 27, Guiltord 6 Bridgewater at Johns Hopkins
Randolph-Macon 43, Denison 25 Centre at W&L

Sewanee 20, Emory & Henry 13
Bridgewater at Christopher
Newport, ppd. '

W&L at Rolex Tournament (Mary
Washington), TBA

Saturday, Sept. 22

Field Hockey

W&L at Catawba, 11 a.m.
Volleyball

Randolph-Macon at W&L, 11 a.m.
Women’s Soccer

RMWC at W&L, 11 a.m.
Football

Centre at W&L, 1 p.m.

Men’s Soccer

W&L at Randolph-Macon, 2 p.m.

Monday, Sept. 24
Women’s Soccer
Sweet Brlar at W&L, 4:30 p.m.

Randolph-Macon at Catholic
Davidson at Emory & Henry
Hampden-Sydney at Guiltord

 

 

The Washington and Lee Cd_/)/X

University Yearbook

invites

all returning students

- to pick up their Can/x

by emailing the editor, Neal \X/illets (wi1letsr@vvlu.edu),

or by stopping by the Calyx office

during normal hours of operation

  
 

  ' I -

Be sure to register for Colonnade Connections www. alumniconnections.com/w/u

llmnctnss
Srunrurs

ALUMNI OFFICE and CAREER SER

invite you to be a part of the

atest Technological Achievement

Come to the Co-Op

on September 20th

’ between 10am - 2pm
and pick up your

registration packet and FREE GIF 

To be Continued . . .

l

 

    
 

9}‘

p (3
EMAILTHEPHI

THE .RlNG-~TU:\rI Pill HAVEANYQUESHONS?.¢

CRUITMENT “W
PAGE 8 ' MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2001*"
i 1

You can goto Ring-tum Phi staff meetings!

l

  Emfy Moﬂdqzy 42‘ 7:00 pm, 5/M779

 3 7 W/as/9z'n(g2‘oﬂ St, comer of _ E17515/9z'7¢<gz‘o7¢ cmderson   

/
/

  Anyone, regardless of c/cm orpreviom e><pm'eme ‘  

THE Rrxcrruivi PHI L ‘
Statewide award—w1nn1ng news coverage .
“Sophisticated, worldly, jazzy”  

Tl-ilifl R.IN(}-TUi\'il Pi-:l1i

PINION ,
Bhstering and brutally honest «  
“I can’t believe I read that”  "

W&tl“EEl“‘

Smiles are never far away with the softer side of news ‘  
“Sensational, sophisticated, sleek”  

TEE RilNG-TLEM Pl?-ll

PORTS    
The most comprehensive W&L sports coverage in history;

“My goodness, this is splendiferous”

  

THE Ri£NG-’fUMi PEI

AYOUT       3:

Work with the Evil Queen of Picas

“It’s crossed the line from dedication to obsession” '

* e

 

