  
  

‘A

 
 
 
 

 
   
 
  
   
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 

,/Arc. la
.) .. w~xA¢- 3:‘
‘Q J I‘?_~ "9 J
. ne'er»-‘.7.’

rw. 

MO. ‘)5
, APRIL FOOLS
PAGES 1-2
APRIL
" F<.><;>Ls

.i~)l'f)l’l‘l ‘LIV

Ti-Eli STl,§l')l',,’\?T l’(3l(Il'i {iii \5i‘i.~\Slll\(}'f(lE\5 .~\\D

    

l.r=.ia L'=,\‘l’\-'l?.l{'>‘.l’i'Y' srxtirt 1897 ‘OK ..

 

  
 

7. KT? Pl 1 l .\\"l .1‘ .I’.Di.' "

 

 

, 
N L<;\ws 2
OI-’lNl(.>NS 3
W&Lrr~£ 5
SI’OR"I‘S ".7
24 / 7 2
LIP SYNC 1>1<;:s. 5

 

i B oard name s

BY MICHELLE LALLY
7*‘ srrrr WRITER

g Washington and Lee University named Dr. Thomas
G Burish, former provost of Vanderbilt University, as the
school’s 24th president.

Board of Trustees Rector Frank Surface announced
Burish as the new president Wednesday at noon in Lee

3 Chapel with students, faculty, staff, and members of the
community present.

M “Tom Burish has a proven record of success as a

’* teacher, scholar, public ﬁgure and university leader,” said
Surface. “He has the vision, energy, experience and insti-

Qx‘ tutional understanding to lead Washington and Lee, rec-
ognized as one of the nation’s best liberal arts universities
and schools of law, to the forefront of its peers.”

Burish, a renowned psychology professor, is a direc-
tor of the American Cancer Society and leads many of its
scientiﬁc and research committees. Burish’s background
includes experience as a published author, as a contribu-
. tor and editor of psychology journals, and an accredita-
5 tion reviewer and advisor to national universities, medical
 centers, and the U.S. Army.

l Rector Frank Surface described Burish as “a proven
leader dedicated to the life of the mind.”
During the eight-month search for a new president,
Vice President and Dean Laurent Boetsch served as act-
ing president. Boetsch will remain acting president through
June 30, while working with Burish to orient him to his
new ofﬁce. Burish will assume the office July 1.
Boetsch took on the role of acting president follow-
ing the death of former University president, John Elrod,
5, who died of kidney cancer on July 27, 2001.

Undergrad dies

jg Suicide a possibility in management major’s death

Dean of Students David
Howison, members of Phi Kappa
Sigma, Bethea’s fraternity and
other friends attended funeral
services in New Orleans on Sat-

BY KATIE j. HOWELL
,' .-xssocrma rznrror

Authorities say suicide is a
possible cause of senior Morrison
Curtis Bethea, Jr.‘s death last
week.

The honor roll management
major died at his home in New Or-
leans last Tues-
. day morning.

While the

cause of death

“ has not been

0 f fi c i a l l y

‘' stated, many

suspect sur-
cide.

, 1' Washing-

ton and Lee

,. has not had an undergraduate

commit suicide for about 15

years, Dean of Students and

Counseling Psychologist Anne
Schroer—Lamont said.

1‘ “Suicide is a pretty unusual

urday.

emotioins.

 

 

ETHEA

Schroer—Lamont encouraged
students trying to cope with
Bethea’s death to talk about their

“It is important to share with
one another and not be afraid of
your feelings,” she said. “And If
you’re concerned about a friend’s
behavior—excessive anger, crying,
sleep or lack of sleep—they really
need to talk about it.”

Bethea was an ODAC All-
American golf champion and mem-
ber of Williams Investment Society,
according to The New Orleans
Times-Picayune obituary.

“This is a particulary stressful
time for students,” Schroer—Lamont

 

Burish’s wife, Pamela, who he says played an integral
role in his decision to accept the W&L presidency, at-
tended the announcement and joined her husband in greet-
ing the community at a reception Wednesday afternoon
in the Lee House.

When the Burishes move to Lexington this summer
the Lee House will be their new home, as it has been to a
long line of W&L presidents, including its namesake Rob-
ert E. Lee.

Pamela Burish is a professional director for Bredex
Corp, a company that designs Web-based assessment
tools for K-6 schools and students.

In September Burish, 51, announced his intentions to
withdraw from his office as provost of Vanderbilt to return
to full-time teaching in the psychology department.

When the chance to become W&L’s next president
arrived, Burish said he recognized it “not as a job, but as a
calling.”

“It is with a sense of exhilaration, humility and grati-
tude that I accept this presidency,” said Burish in his ad-
dress Wednesday. 1

Burish told Wednesday’s audience that his ﬁrst or-
der of business as president will be to earn the trust of the
community. Burish plans to dedicate his ﬁrst year as presi-
dent to learning about the W&L community, by meeting
with the members of the Board of Trustees, faculty, staff

and student leaders individually. Burish said he wanted to
get to know all the people who view the university as its
home.

“Washington and Lee has a legacy that will be nour-
ished and protected,” said Burish.

As provost Burish oversaw the student-run honor

system and the deans of eight colleges and schools.

BY ANDREW Lrmnnr
ASSISTANT OPINIONS EDITOR

Lee Chapel played host to both sides
of the American political spectrum last
Wednesday withatalkﬁom forrnerWhite
House press secretaries Marlin Fitzwater
and Joseph Lockhart. -

Their discussion, “Inside the Real
West Wing,,” focused on the their
involvement with thoughts regarding the
popular NBC drama, their tenures at the
mercy of the media and numerous
questions regarding current events. The
visit was sponsored by the Contact
Committee, Kappa Sigma and the Young
Arnerica’s Foundation.

Fitzwater, the only public relations
strategist with the distinction of serving
two presidents, Ronald Reagan and
George H.W. Bush, dealt with momentous
events such as the collapse of the Soviet

Union and the Gulf War.

Lockhart took the helm of press
secretaryinOctober l998,inthewake of
the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal and just
as the House of Representatives began
impeachment proceedings against
President Bill Clinton. He then resigned

l.E.T>Zi1\'t‘{l‘():‘~.,  2445 l

 

l\lo§<rm', : 

Burish24th resident

t Long-time Vanderbilt provost plans first presidential actions learning about the Washington and Lee community, meeting student /ea ers

 
   

LOOKING UP. Burish (left) looks forward to working with Acting President Laurent Boetsch another W&L community member.

more BY blur (1L\’/ The Ring-tum Phi

As he takes on the W&L presidency he will take on
the $225 million capital campaign, which has raised
$175 million to date. After his first year as president,
Burish intends to teach classes in the psychology de-
partment.

When asked by the media what kinds of plans he had
for handling diversity and alcohol abuse on campus Burish

responded, “At this point, I don’t know enough to say
what W&L should do.”

“I commit myself to Washington and Lee entirely,”
said Burish, adding that he looks forward to the chal-
lenges ahead of him in his new office.

“This is an exceptional place,” said Burish, adding,
“some would call it blessed.”

Press secretaries speak

three years later, just prior to the close of
the Clinton era.

“The West Wing,” which debuted in
1999, is an Emmy Award—winning series
starring Martin Sheen as President Josiah
Bartlet, regularly gamers high ratings as
it examines real-life crises facing the White

The duo traded political barbs and
insights alike as neither shied away from
jabbing each other’s parties. “George W.
Bush left his mark on the White House
eariy when he installed aT-ball ﬁeld on the
SouthLawn,,replacingtheexisting female
mud-wrestling pit,’ ’ quipped Fitzwater.

Lockhart unveiled his list of the “top
ten reasons you know you are not in the
White House anymore,” which included,
“When I hear the words ‘press
conference,’ all I do now is ﬂip on C-
SPAN, pop open a beer and laugh.”

The two entertained and informed
the chapel audience during their hour-
and—a—half long talk. Both agreed on the
realism of "llieWestW'1ng,” yet Lockhart
noted the show’s absence of
partisanship. Such an aspect is too
important to ignore and without it the
series is incomplete, he indicated.

 

As an advisor to the show, Fitzwater
could share his favorite episodes with the
crowd Among them was a “West Wing”
involving a Ukrainian ambassador who
anivesattheWhiteHousedrunk,dragging
arnisuessbehirrdhimF1tzwatersaidtheplot
wasbaseduponareal—lifeeventwherefuune
PrimeM1n1' 'sterofRussiaBorisYeltsinshowed
up in Washington thoroughly inebriated and
demanded to see the President immediately.

When a question arose regarding
Bernard Goldberg’s controversial book
“Bias,” an expose of the irmerworkings of
the CBS newsroom. While Fitzwater
expressed how Bush Sr. calls him regularly
to share choice passages, Lockhart
countered the notion of a liberal tilt to the

 Comcr Coxrwnrr
FULL PRFSS: Fitzwater (left) and Lockhart regailed a Lee Chapel audience.

media.Accordingtohim,what appears to
be left wing is merely the journalist’s
tendency to criticize those in power and
look forblame.

One issue where both speakers could
ﬁnd common ground was emphasizing
that Americans become more active in
politics. Lockhart expressed his
dissatisfaction with the sentiment during
the 2000 presidential race that there was
little to no difference between the
candidates, a point he rebutted with the
example of executive leadership duringthe
Sept 11 crisis.

In the spirit of political cooperation
and mature debate, neither hesitated at
the program’s close to shake hands.

 

 
 

  
  
 

  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

event for W&L,” she said.

NOTE“; I  
Mentz named Player of the Year, Babst honored

Washington and Lee senior forward Jessica Mentz (Ellicott
City, Md./Centennial) was named the Virginia College Divi-
sion Player of the Year as voted on by the Virginia Sports
Information Directors (VaSID) and announced on Tuesday
afternoon. Senior center Megan Babst (Pittsburgh, Pa./Fox
Chapel) earned second team accolades.

For Mentz, it marks her second consecutive selection to
the All-State First Team. Babst was an honorable mention pick
a year ago.

In 2001-02, Mentz was the ﬁrst W&L women’s basketball
player to be named the ODAC Player of the Year after her
ﬁnest season in a W&L uniform. She led the ODAC and was
15th nationally in rebounding (11.8 rpg) and was second in
the ODAC and 16th nationally in scoring (20.0 ppg).

The 5-foot-9 Mentz, who also earned a spot on the All-
ODAC First Team for the second consecutive season, set 21
school records during her career. She is W&L’s all-time lead-
ing scorer (1,742) and rebounder (973). Her scoring total ranks
sixth in the history of Division III women’s basketball in the
state of Virginia.

Babst also had a banner year in 2001-02. She ﬁnished
third in the ODAC in both scoring (19.0 ppg) and rebounding
(10.1 rpg) and placed 28th nationally with an average of 2.2
blocks perigame. The 6-foot-1 Babst was a Second Team All-
ODAC selection this season after eaming honorable mention
accolades each of the last two seasons.

Babst concluded her career with nine school records, in-
cluding blocks in a season (57) and a career (190) and re-
bounds in a game (21). She is second all-time at W&L in scor-
ing (1,265) and rebounding (925).

  

   

Grove and Petrusek named as Watson Fellows

Thomas Grove and Matthew Petrusek, seniors at Wash-
ington and Lee University, have been named Thomas J.
Watson Fellows for 2002-2003.

Grove is a German and Russian double major from Altoona,
Pa. His project, “Tracing the Silken Lute,” will take him to
Turkey and China. Petrusek, a Medieval and Renaissance stud-
ies and politics double major from Summerville, Ore., plans to
travel to Norway, Tanzania, India and Argentina for his project,
“Listening Closely: Comparing Descriptions of Poverty
Throughout the World.” They are two of 60 recipients to re-
ceive Watson fellowships this year.

This is the third consecutive year W&L has entered stu-
dents for consideration in the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship
program. As Jeffrey Barnett, director of the Global Steward-
ship program and faculty advisor, pointed out, .”In our ﬁrst
three years of participation, we’ve had ﬁve winners. This at-
tests to our students’ zeal to know the world beyond our
borders. In recent years W&L has made great progress in its
commitment to international education. Given the talent and
creativity of our students, international post-graduate fellow-
ships are a meaningful culmination of a liberal arts educa-
tion.”

Approximately 50 of the nation’s leading colleges, prima-
rily small liberal arts institutions, participate in the program
which gives exceptional college graduates the freedom to en-
gage in a year of independent study and travel abroad. Nearly
1,000 students applied for these awards this year.

“We look for extraordinary young men and women of
extraordinary promise, individuals who have the personality
and drive to become leaders of tomorrow,” said Norvell E.
Brasch, the executive director of the Watson Fellowship Pro-
gram and a former fellow. “The program is designed to fund
the most creative dreams of our fellows with a minimum of
restrictions. The world is their canvas, and we let them tell us
how they want to paint it.” Fellowship recipients receive a
substantial grant of approximately $22,000 to fund their year
abroad.

27

   

"Way
7:30 p.m.—-Lee Chapel hours change. Monday

through Saturday, 9:00 to 5:00 p.m. Sunday 1:00 to
5:00 p.m.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ. Guy Smiley Blues Ex-
change. GHQ.

Tuesday,Apr.2

7 p.m.——Pre-Tour Concert. University Chamber
Singers. Great Hall, Science Center.

9 p.m.—One Acts 2002. “Andrea’s Got Two Boy-
friends,” directed by Agnes Flak ’03; “Wildwood
Park,” directed by Robert Powers ’02; “Caution to the
Wind,” directed by Susan Slopek ’03; and “Pitching
to the Star,” directed by Katie Frusti ’03. Johnson
Theater, Lenfest Center. No tickets required.

Wednesday,Apr.3

 

3: 15 p.m.-—Pre-Tour Concert. University Cham-
ber Singers. Great Hall, Science Center.

8 p.m.——Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting. Fairfax
Lounge (when W&L is in session). All W&L stu-
dents, faculty/ staff and the Lexington community
are welcome. Coffee is provided.

8 p.m.—One Acts 2002. “Andrea’s Got Two Boy-
friends,” directed by Agnes Flak ’03; “Wildwood
Park,” directed by Robert Powers ’02; “Caution to
the Vlfrnd,” directed by Susan Slopek ’03; and “Pitch-
ing to the Star,” directed by Katie Frusti ’03. Johnson
Theater, Lenfest Center. No tickets required.

Thursday, Apr. 4

8 p.m.—Applied Music Recital. Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center.

8 p.m.—-One Acts 2002. “Andrea’s Got Two Boy-
friends,” directed by Agnes Flak ’03; “Wildwood
Park,” directed by Robert Powers ’02; “Caution to
the Wind,” directed by Susan Slopek ’03; and “Pitch-
ing to the Star,” directed by Katie Frusti ’03. Johnson
Theater, Lenfest Center. No tickets required.

Friday, Apr. 5

Environmental Studies Luncheon Series 2001-
2002. “Far and Near: Muir and Burroughs on the
Harriman Alaska Expedition, 1899,” Jim Warren, pro-
fessor of English, W&L. Room 1 14, University Cen-
ter. RSVP to Lynda Bassett de Maria, ext. 8932.

    
     

   

MKNGQ MAMA '  R¥' ‘BLAET *- 3Y3‘-..-\‘Wlf.I.§Iit.:§€’f £‘3IZ)M.ii
 % 0 -  ¥§0C§fz'5o. '1 
'9    Iv  5 

is its harsd fer a 30-ysea aid
in think anon. retire eat? 8 . 

mm-ds.. mid ‘lih §"‘«.=, ma gzéha
_ to ﬁﬁzrd =p!~an. y<3~1.a~cem tr

 

Great Student Rental for rent Undergraduates or
Law Students. Available 2002-2003
Two stories, two apartments , up to six people.
Ping Pong Room & TV Room. Large yard and very private.
Call 463-7168 or evenings 348-6908. . 1

   
 

   

   

 aéke thintniragj an mire re  mizag am:   

 
 
 

ram.  rat>titi%r~g like

 



BALDING (D PAGE X

S:\i_‘Ni)liRS rt) .»\l’1-‘EAR IN 

‘H tile. <.Ii,.L“B l-"QR WEN .’ ’
SCHISM <I>PAoE Y

 

Fi~’.i:‘.SH BI .;\(.l<.

 

. at N l'51..At:i<
. ..l:i .-.“.x.I..i,i.—\.:-\=<‘:t.>.. A

 \::«‘ ti" 1 \5

 

 

   

E..§-::.:\;t;‘i't;».\. \'2:t« ;:.\i.\.

 SHlNGTON AND LEE Umeasiir

,Hy...%

 
 

;\

  Bush visits W&L  

President showcases academic axis of evil’

BY GERALD O. PHILPOT
1r’s MY PARTY

In a surprise move that stunned analysts, President
George W. Bush today expanded the campaign against
terrorism to domestic targets.

Bush appeared as part of the Contact C0mmittee’s
noble quest to eliminate any traces of liberalism from Wash-
ington and Lee’s campus through
the invitation of absurdly conser-
vative speakers.

“Certain factions at W&L are
intent on obfuscating the Ameri-
can way of life,” said Bush, read-
ing slowly from notes in his Lee
Chapel address. “I want them
stopped, dead or alive.”

Pressed for speciﬁcs, Bush re-
sponded that his targets were
“those who teach so—called ‘sci-
ence’ that contradicts my theories
on creationism and abortion, and those dastardly Demo-
crats who generate support for the fuzzy math elites in
Washington. These groups must be eliminated if we are to
save America from vile liberalism.

“And we’re going to start right here, in the Science i
Center and Robinson Hall. They are the Axis of Evil in
America.”

Shouts were immediately heard from the audience.

“Don’t forget that damn women’s studies program,”
said History Professor Jefferson Davis Futch III, recently
returned from identifying the exhumed body of former
president Grover Cleveland, whom he met as a boy. “That
abomination should be destroyed root and branch!”

Bush replied in the affirmative, shaking his head sagely
and replying “It’s no exaggeration to say that in these
troubled times the undecideds could go one way or an-
other. We must strike pre—emphatically.”

Romance Languages Professor Domnica Radulescu
protested, noting that the women’s studies program is
housed in several buildings, particularly Tucker Hall.

“Who cares about foreign language, anyway,” Bush
questioned. “I learn enough Mexican from our ranch hands
and pool boys back in Texas. Saque la basura, chico.
Dame su vota, nir"tit0.” Bush added Tucker to the Axis of
Evil, noting that people only use foreign languages to talk
to “foreign people.” i

Not everyone in the audience was critical of Bush’s
message. "‘

“Now all y’all come with me,” shouted junior Nathan
Bedford Beauregard. “We [are] gonna get them damn
Northerners real good!” He and his fellow Kappa Alphas
then jumped into their SUV—pick—ups and drove in circles
around Lee Chapel. _

Bush praised this example 0 “grassroots civic action.”

“Now who wants a drink,” asked Bush, pulling out a
special presidentially-sized ﬂask of Jack Daniels and tak-
ing a swig. “As your Commander—in-Chief, I order you to
precipitate.”

As students leaped up at the chance to drink with the
43rd president, Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins and IFC
Advisor Burr Datz were seen conferring about the propri-
ety of giving Bush a strike. »

Commenting on the possibility of giving the Presi-
dent a strike, Datz said, “It is a hard decision for me to
make, personally. On the one hand, President Bush and I
are both similar in that we are formerly wild fraternity boys
turned sober advocates of personal responsibility. On the
other hand, I do have the duty to enforce the University
Anti-Litigation Committee’s regulations against alcohol. I
don’t know; I could almost use a stiff drink right now
myself.”

After the speech, Bush was seen kneeling in prayer
in front of a garbage can in Graham—Lees Dormitory, from
which he was taken to attend a dorm party hosted by new

BUSH

   

SAE’s.

‘Regretful, contrite’ Howison resignsasgu

School shocked at bland dean’s violenipast

, BY LIBERATE THE PEOPLE
l’ROl~‘ESSl()NAL RE\’OLUTl0N;\RY

Dean of Students David Howison announced plans
to retire following the 2002-2003 academic year, after a
Ring—tum Phi reporter unearthed his revolutionary
past. V

“Howie,” as he is familiarly known behind his back,
has been regarded as the epitome of the well—scrubbed,
professional administrator.

Few could imagine that the author of the Soledad
death march or the San Crucio terror raids hid behind
this staid exterior.

“In my youth, I was guilty of reckless pursuit of
certain social ideals,” Howison admitted at a press con-
ference announcing his retirement. “I apologize for any
people anywhere whom I may have inadvertently hurt.”

“‘Hurt’vappears a bit of an understatement,” said
History Professor Taylor Sanders. “Thousands of
people—soldiers, revolutionaries, peasants—have
been killed as a direct result of his actions.” ‘

Howison entered Central America in the 1970s as
an undergraduate on a nature tour. Disgusted with the
brutal actions of the US—suppor'ted Zaculioso regime,
he stayed behind to bring Marxist—Leninist valuesjto
an oppressed people.

"" ‘ ’ _ “:3 name Ho Wisonera, Howison’s ruth-

    
   

BY RUNPHOR PRESIDENT
MORE CREDENTIALS‘ THAN HILIARY

In a stunning reversal of tradition for both the
University and its new president, the Board of Trust-
ees Tuesday named Rev. Al Sharpton ‘72 ‘75L, a New
York religious and black leader, as Washington and
Lee’s 24th President.

The selection drew surprise from around the na-
tion, as Sharpton must abandon his White House run
to ﬁll position. He had been considered a major con-
tender for the Democratic nomination.

“The Trustees felt that naming Rev. Sharpton the
next President would show that diversity at Washing-
ton and Lee is more than just a word or an ideal—it is
practice and policy,” said J. Frank Surface, Rector of
the Board.

Dr. Thomas G. Burish, Provost of Vanderbilt Uni-
versity, had been the top choice for the spot, but his
nomination was killed by the last minute discovery of
his opposition to Swarthmore’s completely pass/fail
Interpretive Dance Department and major.

“The Board and the Presidential Search Commit-
tee were 100% committed to ﬁnding a candidate who
would continue the progress of our 1994
Swarthmorification Plan,” commented Prof. Harlan
Beckley, chair of the Presidential Search Committee.
“Unfortunately, Dr. Burish lacks the commitment the
new President must have. Fortunately, we also had Rev.
Sharpton lined up.”

BY ANNA REXIA AND Bur EMIA
WEIGHT WATCHERS

Piercing screams and falling objects shattered the
serenity of Washington and Lee’s back campus at
3:00am Sunday. Ablazing inferno erupted, causing the
tragic demise of Woods Creek West, one of campus’
most recognizable, and unsightly, buildings. No stu-
dent was injured or killed in the ﬁre, although struc-
tural damage was extensive. An acceptable number of
non-W&L students were killed.

The unattractive Woods Creek apartments were

less pursuit of a collective utopia became feared

throughout the area.

“In South America he is still known as El

Txzt Rink»-‘Fl '.tl’izI

INDEX

CI) -
APRIL FooLs
ISSUE

 

’:.“‘-"l’rf’.*‘{’l')”-‘~_‘t',”Al*

FILE more

AMEN l Rev. Al Sharpton at his inaugural press conference. He vowed to rescue the school from its association with “dead white guys.”

Rev. Sharpton is a civil rights and religious leader
from New York City. He ﬁrst came to national prominence
when he championed the cause of Tawana Brawley, a
young black girl who falsely accused white police ‘detec-
tives of rape. Most recently he served a 90-day jail term
for trespassing on the Naval base on Vieques Island dur-
ing which he went on a well-publicized hunger strike.

Mobbed by the media at his inaugural press confer-
ence, Sharpton stated his goals for the University.

“My mission is not only education, but integration.
Students, it is about time, you must change your para-
digm. Here at Washington and Lee, black students will no
longer be,the ones who are shunted aside, but those who
rise up high.”

The rotund Reverend went on to express his support
for the proposed Matrimonial Studies program, but added

known to be structurally unsound. In fact, its element of
danger attracted a large number of students, making it the
most popular on—campus housing option for upperclass-
men. Wood Creek West’s loss is particularly hard, as it
contained_17 apartments, significantly more than Central’s
10. '

Students Courtney Penn. “What do we do with the West
residents for the remainder of the school year?" What will
we do with the students who were planning to live there
next year?”

The administration has decided that the newly-home-
less will move into fraternities which did not make quota
last year. Sigma Nu and Beta have already seen their empty
rooms ﬁlled to capacity.

“Greek or non—Greek, we’re all Generals first,” Penn
said. I

The ﬁre’s origins are uncertain, but many suspect a
stray cigarette butt.

“Most students use cigarettes to help them lose
weight,” Health Center Director Jane Horton said. “This
points to the image-conscious Kappas.”

According to security reports, a group of ten sopho-
mores had gatheredin one of the apartments, imbibing
illegal spirits and smoking cigarettes of questionable com-

“We face a serious problem,” said assistant Dean of

that he expects the school to also add a Black Studies
program.

“Our mission will still include English inspirations
and C—school situations, but must expand to encompass
reparations,” Sharpton said.

The Lexington Chamber of Commerce cheered the
appointment, citing Sharpton’s plan to hold the Million
Man March in town as “great for the hotels on Route l1.”

Support for the choice has not been universal, though.
The United Daughters of the Confederacy are staging a
sit-in to protest Sharpton’s plans to convert Lee Chapel
into a bed and breakfast. They labeled his characteriza-
tion of Lee Recumbent as a “piece of white supremacist
trash” as “inflammatory.”

Acting President Boetsch has contacted the Virginia
National Guard to assist with the transition.

position.

I

«72 new President

ppa ‘cigartte’ burns down Woods Creek West;

“We feel conﬁdent in asserting that one of the ciga-I
rettes descended from the digits of an intoxicated stu-3
dent,” said Security Officer Thomas “Baner” Bane. “Speak— 1
ing epistomologically, the copious presence of the alco—‘:

hol indubitably acted as an incendiary device, dissemi-j
nating the flames throughout the entire ediﬁce.”

The women inhabiting the apartment were questioned, 
but refused to comment. .

The Business Ofﬁce estimates that the damage total is
approximately $86 million: $4 million for the structure and
the remainder from students’ destroyed personal effects.

Sophomore resident Avery Magnolia Ashton stated
that she was most distraught by the loss of her “school
things,” all of which perished in the fire. She estimates
personal losses at $1.3 million.

Several students and administrators have expressed
interest in replacing the burned out crater with a monu-
ment to drunken accidents, to commemorate both the
building’s original design and the ﬁre that destroyed it. A
Woods Creek Steering Committee composed of both stu-
dents and faculty will meet Spring Term to discuss the
site’s future.

Applications are now available outside Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center.

Revolucionario Monstruoso,” said Spanish Professor
Cecile West-Settle. “This is the man so committed he
would kill his wounded guerillas rather than leave them
for the enemy to torture.” —

Even Fidel Castro sought his friendship, sending
him a peace offering of goats and Soviet rifles in a bid
for cooperation.

Despite his fearsome reputation, “El
Revolucionario Monstruoso” enjoyed phenomenal
popularity.

“A lot of us girls in the Spanish Department had a
crush on him,” West—Settle said. “I actually learned
the language so I could tell him ‘I love you’ in what I
thought was his native tongue.”

In America, Ho Wisonera posters came into vogue,
symbolizing a younger generation’s dissatisfaction
with the perceived bourgeosis values of its parents.

After the razing the capital city Maria Dolorosa,
Ho Wisonera disappeared completely, spawning doz-
ens of legends about his mysterious whereabouts.

No one knew where he was—until now.

W&L reaction was incredulous.

“I still can’t believe that Dean Howison once killed
five tax collectors with his bare hands,” said sopho-
more Jackson Hunter Billingsworth, XVII. “Does he
have to retire now that he’s become interesting?”

VIVA LA REvoLUc1oNl Dean Howison and Fidel Castro
take an uncharacteristic break from hunting down “capitalist

errilla past resurfaces

running dogs” to enjoy a round of “the game of the people.”
Golfis enjoyed by oppressed workers throughout South America

41,

 

 

  

 

PAGE ;

In 1986, Washington and Lee opened it doors to the

fairer sex. Presumably, we had not done so previously_

because there weren’t many women to be found who were
interested in the academic rigor and depth of tradition that
characterize our University. Unfortunately, it seems that
although we have added women to the student body, this
is not because women are any more qualiﬁed to be stu-
dents than when they populated only Sweetbriar, Hollins
and Mary Baldwin. '

It is no secret that many, if not all, of W&L’s co-ed’s
are here in search of a husband. Whether conﬁning their
search to only the Big Four, or expanding the pool to
include all fraternity men, our Southern Belles are search-
ing for a man who can provide for them in the way that
daddy so generously has.

If the Board of Trustees is truly committed to making
a W&L education as valuable as it can be for every stu-
dent, regardless of sex, perhaps they should create a new
interdepartmental program to accompany Women’s Stud-
ies and Global Stewardship.

This program, perhaps entitled Matrimonial Stud-
ies, would be designed to impart to W&L women
marriageable skills that would make them more at-
tractive brides. The program would not just be a
simple Home Economics course, although sewing and
cooking would be included in the skills learned.

Specific suggestions follow:

Laundry Exchange Program: Each female stu-
dent would be assigned a male student, the washing,
folding and ironing of whose laundry she would be
in charge. Although this will be especially easy for
freshman women who need only to pick up dirty laun-
dry on their way downstairs to the laundry room,
perhaps sororities could be charged with arranging
weekly pick up and distribution of laundry at the fra-
ternity houses.

- Dining Hall Cooking Crews: The female popu-
lation will be organized into Laetitia Pate Work Teams.
These groups of 40 or so women will be charged with
meal planning, cooking, and cleaning. Opportunities
for learning would abound when it came time for the
special meals. Lady Generals could practice folding linen
napkins, starching and pressing tablecloths and the
proper arrangement of tableware. Everyone knows how
important it is for a hostess to “set a nice table.” More-
over, they could practice having all this done as well as
having their high heels and pearls on in time for a prompt
5 :30 serving.

- Art and Music Appreciation:
Any good hostess is expected to be able
to converse intelligently with her guests
on all subjects of fine arts and culture.
As such, no woman should leave W&L
without a detailed understanding of art
and music. They really need not waste any time outside
Dupont inithe C-School; husband will give each an ad-
equate allowance, I’m sure.

Itinerant Worker Management: As the face of

  

  APRIL FOOLS
Help women obtain the

’EErﬁ~Tﬁ’AE§
.504

  ir MRS dree

 

5

CO URTESY (X X )G]_.l:'. COM

SEE, SCIENCE ISN'T HARDl Who says that a college education can’t be practical? These girls know a rock on the ﬁnger beats a

sheepskin on a wall.

America changes, the ethnicity of cleaning ladies, nan-
nies and gardeners changes with it. This course would
give our female students the skills nec-
essary to manage a household. It
would include a basic study of Span-
ish and intensive study of the laws

 concerning payments to and taxes on

aliens (both legal and illegal).

- Large Vehicle Driving: All of W&L’s soon-
to-be soccer moms shouldn’t be expected to take the
wheel of the family Suburban without the proper
training. Women are notoriously poor drivers and

WEDNESDAY:
Career Services  
presents ‘What A
English Majors Should
Expect after Graduation’

Burr Datz speaks on the
true purpose of

become only more dangerous when piloting a large
vehicle. The Physical Education Department would

administer this course which will teach young ladies ,

important driving techniques and basic auto maintet
nance. Students will also be required to memorize the
number of their local AAA and watch the video
“What to Expect When Driving to or from the Gro-
cery Store.”

These few suggestions cannot give the full depth
and scope of the Matrimonial Studies program, but I, for
one, believe it would be a welcome and proﬁtable addition
to the W&L curriculum.

FRIIDAYZ

fraternities

i iﬁsnrail news briefs

 

SAE bums down historical Lexington,
gets one-week social suspension

Downtown Lexington is home to little more than
cinders and exposed beams after brothers of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity torched it following an out—of—
control party Saturday.

The mass-arson was sparked by a “Down with
Lex” philanthropic mixer held to raise money for W&L
students injured in muggings this year. Decorations
included extra-large tikitorches and townpeople sus-

pended in cages from the basement ceiling. After the
ﬁnale, the ritual hanging of Lexington mayor John

Knapp in efﬁgy, things apparently got out of hand.
Grabbing their tiki torches and jumping into wait-
ing SUVs, SAE members and their guests inﬂicted more

than $40 million dollars of damage on the city—-more —

than ten times Rockbridge County’s annual income,
even including the under—the-table bribes given by
W&L.

An official statement released jointly by the Dean
of Students Ofﬁce and the SAE Housing Corporation
takes the fraternity to task for “increasing the possibil-
ity of liability against Washington and Lee.” However,
recognizing the many contributions that SAE has made
to the university community (most recently, a square
mile of available parking), punishment was set at a week
of social probation.

SAE officers protested the decision. Social pro-
bation prevents a fraternity from hosting recreational
activities at its on-campus house.

Ofﬁce of International Education aims
for students from 100 different countries

Director of International Education William
Klingelhofer announced plans to increase the number
of countries represented at W&L to 100. By combin-
ing neglible entrance requirements and near full—rides,
Klingelhofer has so far been able to attract students
from more than 60 foreign countries.

“We already have freshmen from Argentina, Aus-
tria, Bahamas, Bermuda, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica,”
said Klingelhofer. “Ecuador, France, Germany, Ghana . . .”

Worried at the high number of students from India
and Jamaica, the ofﬁce is considering denying any stu-
dents from those country entrance for the next few years.

“This situation will thus let the numbers sink to
more representational indices,” Klingelhofer said.

The Ofﬁce of International Education has consid-
ered allowing foreign students to stay an extra four
years, thus eliminating the necessity of regularly find-
ing a replacement of their nationality.

MONDAYS

Women’s Forum car
wash ‘.‘to raise money for
women’s dignity”

 

JERE\lYl‘ltiNl{UN

SPORTS EDITOR

Emir PRll\ll{Ul\U@\WIL‘.El)L'
PAGE 3

TEE Rit~.ii;-TEM Pat

, A MONDAY, APRIL 1, 2002 

:Women’s ennis battles top Division III opponents

Generals fail to No. 1 W'IIiams and No. 2 Emory to open Fab Five Tournament, rebound to top 3rd-ranked Trinity and No. 6 Pomona Pitzer on W&L campus

film (iL"\'/Tlte Ring—tum Phi

'GENERAIS FAIL T0 N0. 1: Senior Melissa Hatley returns a

shot in her 8-5 loss with junior Erika Proko at No. 1 doubles

against Williams in the Fab Five Tournament on Thursday.
Hatley won 6-2, 6-2 over Kate Troy at No. 3 singles.

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The stage was set for a letdown after the Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team twice felt the sting of 7-2
defeats on subsequent afternoons, at the hands of top-
ranked Vlfilliams College and No. 2 Emory University at
the Fab Five Tournament on W&L’s campus.

With a match against Trinity University of Texas, the
third-ranked team in the nation and the squad that ended
W&L’s season last year, less than 24 hours later, the Gen-
erals badly needed a win. ,

Fortunately, Cinda Rankin’s squad returned with a ven-
geance and proved that “great deal of heart” should be
added to any list of positive qualities exhibited by the
ﬁfth—ranked team.

‘There are a couple of things that can happen in that situ-
ation: you can get beaten and oollapse or you can get beaten
and come back. They got beaten and kept ﬁghting,” Rankin
said. “It was amazing and, to me, that’s what it’s all about.”

The Generals used a big 6-3 win over Trinity on Satur-
day afternoon as momentum in posting an impressive 6-0
victory over No. 6 Pomona Pitzer on Sunday morning.

The key to ‘Saturday’s victory over the Tigers rested
quite simply in doubles play.

At No. 1 doubles, senior Melissa Hatley and junior
Erika Proko broke serve when down 3-2, then traded leads
with Abbe Ulrich and three-time All-American Lizzie Yasser
until seizing a grueling 9-8 (6) tiebreaker victory.

Freshman Lindsay Hagerman and senior Manning
Willard came back from a 5-0 deﬁcit in posting an 8-6 vic-
tory at No. 2 doubles.

“Manning and I really wanted that victory,” Hagerman
said. “We lost our last two doubles matches (including a 9-
7 defeat on Friday), so we really wanted to win that one.”

Junior Laura Bruno and senior Sallie Gray Strang contin-

Mxxr GUY/ The Rir1g—tum Phi

MORE FAB FIVE: Freshman Lindsay Hagerman teamed with senior Manning Willard to go 2-2 in doubles through four matches
of the event. In singles competition, Hagerman lost twice at No. 1 before moving down to No. 2, where she won two matches.

ued the drama by winning at No. 3 in another tiebreaker, 9-8 (5).

The Generals entered singles play with a 3-0 lead on
Trinity, an advantage that neither Hagerman nor Rankin
could play down.

“I think when you win all three doubles, you can play
with a lot more conﬁdence and take some chances in singles
play,” Hagerman said. “It makes it a lot easier.”

Rankin concurred, saying that if “we hadn’t swept the
doubles, Trinity might have come out ﬁghting harder and
we may have been a little tense. Doubles is so important
now. If you’re up 2-1, you just need to split the singles in
order to get a win.”

Hagerman, Bruno and Willard secured the Generals’ vic-
tory with wins at No. 2, No. 5 and No. 6 singles respectively,
despite a few scares during Bruno and \V1llard’s matches.

The Generals conclude the Fab Five Tournament with a
match today against seventh—ranked Gustavus Adolphus
at 4 p.m. The main focus of the season — the NCAA Divi-
sion IH Tournament — is slowing moving closer, though.

Rankin believes that keys for her squad down the
stretch will include good doubles play, consistency and

4 upperclassman leadership.

“We’re not a team that will blow anybody off the court
or hit outright winners,” Rankin said. “We have to play a
lot of balls and we have to be consistent.

“This tournament is the type of experience we need
and knowing what to expect makes all the difference,”
Rankin added. “This is where the upperclassmen can re-
ally help the team, telling the freshmen what to expect
down the stretch.”

O‘

f‘Ii&L struggl in 2 losss

MEG Fwakt/TheR1hg-mm Phi

EAGLES TOP W&L: Seniors Andrew Roberts (above) and Rhys James dropped
a 9-8 match to Mary Washington’s Dan Uyar and Nhat Nguyen at No. 1 doubles
on Wednesday. The Generals lost the match by a 5-2 score.

Generals rebound to beat Swarthmore on the road

,. BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS \X'RITl;'R

7’ On a windy Wednesday afternoon,
the men’s tennis team hosted Mary
(‘Washington College for a non-con-
ference match at the outdoor courts.
In a close match, the Generals dropped
7 a 4-3 decision to the Eagles.
The match began with doubles
rplay. The No. 1 and 2 matches split
— seniors Rhys James and Andrew
, Roberts lost, 9-8, but sophomores
’ Graham Nix and Austin Kim pulled
out an 8-6 win — leaving freshman
Paul McClure and sophomore K.C.
Schaefer to break the tie.

In an impressive tiebreaker
match, McClure and Schaefer de-
feated Conor Smith and Nate
Hathway of Mary Washington to
give Washington and Lee the
doubles match point.

i P‘ Coach David Detwiler was quite

pleased with that performance.

2 ’ "The No. 3 doublesteamieallycame

through for us today,” Detwiler said.
Coach Todd Helbling of Mary
1 Washington was not discouraged by
 the doubles loss.

“We saw some good tennis to-
day,” Helbling said. “These are two
good teams, and it’s always a toss-

v up as to who wins the big points.
For the doubles, W&L did.”

Helbling was disappointed in his

team’s technical play, pointing out
‘ that he saw nothing excellent from
his players during those matches.

Singles play began shortly after
the doubles matches. Kim and senior
Rob Moynihan won in two and three
sets at third and ﬁfth-seed singles,
respectively, but the rest of the Mary
Washington team proved too difﬁ-
cult for the Generals to overcome.

V

“Paul McClure lost tough at No. 1,
and Rhys James played very well in
the first set, but lost focus,” said
Detwiler, who was somewhat frustrated
with the team’s play on Wednesday.

“This was a wake-up call for us,”
he added. “They are a good team
and we didn’t take them as seriously
as we wanted to.”

Detwiler could be heard exhort-
ing his team to play to their poten-
tial after the doubles matches, re-
minding them that in order to win,
they had to concentrate on their
game and remember that Mary Wash-
ington is a good team. Unfortu-
nately, it didn’t quite work out.

“We can’t keep relying on No. 5
and 6 to pull out the matches,”
Detwiler said. “This will inspire us,
and make us work a lot harder.”

W&L lost to Washington Col-
lege, which knocked them out of the
NCAA Atlantic South Regional last
season, by a 5-2 score in
Chesteitown, Md., on Saturday. Kim
and Moynihan —— this time at No. 6
singles — were the only Generals to
win matches on the afternoon.

The men’s team traveled to
Swarthmore, Pa. on Sunday and de-
feated the Garnet Tide, a 2001 re-
gional opponent, by a 4-3 score.

James and McClure won at No. 1
and No. 2 singles, respectively. The
Generals picked up wins at ﬁfth and
sixth—seed singles thanks to Nix and
Moynihan. '

Swarthmore took the doubles
point by winning matches at No. 1
and No. 3. Kim and Nix eamed a vic-
tory at second-seed doubles.

The Generals (9-4) next return to
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
play on Tuesday with a 3:30 p.m.
home match against Roanoke.

Generals

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team broke a two-game slide
with wins over Lynchburg and Denison
at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds this week.

Sophomore goalkeeper Joanna
Perini made 16 saves and 10 Generals
scored as W&L knocked off Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference foe
Lynchburg, 10-7, on Wednesday.

The Hornets took an early 2-0 lead
on goals 20 seconds apart by Judy
Garger and Linda Jack, but W&L
reeled off six unanswered goals to take
a 6-2 lead into halftime.

“You don’t ever want to be down by
two, but we’ve done a lot of that this
year,” W&L coach Jan Hathom said.
“Because we’ve been in that situation
so many times, we didn’t panic. We
decided we had to keep ﬁghting harder,
and that’s exactly what they did.”

Sophomores Kelly Taffe and Lee
Wheeler tied the game up with goals
at 20:57 and 15:28. Freshmen Kristen
Brown and Maggie Speasmaker and
senior co-captains Emily Owens and
Courtenay Fisher also scored in the
ﬁrst half.

Lynchburg freshman Ali
Ballantyne, the Hornets’ leading scorer
on the season, pulled her team to within
three goals just over a minute into the
second half. However, goals by junior
Leslie Bogart — who also had three
assists -— and freshman Erin Rathbone
put the game out of reach.

Freshman Kitt Murphy and senior
Julie Carskadon gave W&L a 10-4 lead
later in the half. Lynchburg scored
three goals in the ﬁnal ﬁve minutes to
make the score closer than the game.

The fact that 10 different players

top Lynchburg, rout Denison

MEG P -nu/TheRing-mm Phi

BIG ODAC WIN: Junior Leslie Bogart scoops up a loose ball in Bogart had a goal and three assists against the Hornets, followed
Washington and Lee’s 10-7 win over Lynchburg on Wednesday by two goals and three assists against Denison.

scored for W&L pleased Hathorn,
whose team had trouble on the offen-
sive end in losses to Franklin &
Marshall and Mary Washington.

“First of all, it’s a big conﬁdence
builder, which we needed since we’ve
been struggling to score,” she said.
“Secondly, if we run our offense, that’s
what should happen. It means that
something’s going right in the way
we’re doing our settled offense.”

A lot of things went right for the
Generals’ offense on Saturday, as
W&L trounced Denison by an 18-8
margin. Taffe ﬁnished with four goals
and two assists, while Bogart added
two goals and three assists.

Carskadon contributed two goals
and an assist, and Wheeler notched a
hat trick and an assist in the second

half. Murphy and sophomore
Stephanie Haldy had two goals apiece.

The Generals again fell behind early
against the Big Red. Bogart broke a
scoreless tie more than 10 minutes in
off a Taffe assist, but Denison scored
two quick goals to take the lead.

Two Taffe goals followed by
Bogart’s assists on scores by
Carskadon and freshman Natalya
Hoobchaak, however, gave W&L the
lead for good.

“If we think we can get the ball
down and score, then we’re going to
do it,” Taffe said. “If we get tentative,
it’s not going to wor .”

Bogart, Murphy and junior Laura
Wilson also scored in the ﬁrst half for
the Generals, who led 8-4 after the first
30 minutes. W&L scored the ﬁrst four

goals of the second half for an insur-
mountable 12-4 advantage.

“This win and the one over
Lynchburg are deﬁnitely a big deal,”
Bogart said. “It deﬁnitely boosts our
confidence and improves our play,
especially during practice.”

The Generals (5-3, 3-0 ODAC) have
ﬁve straight conference games before
the ODAC Tournament on April 24-
28. They travel to Bridgewater for a 4
p.m. contest on Wednesday.

“We’re really looking forward to
playing Randolph-Macon and
Roanoke. They’re our other big com-
petition in the ODAC,” Bogart said.
“But Bridgewater and Virginia
Wesleyan both have really good
teams this year, so we have a bunch
of hard games coming up.”

  

MONDAY, APRIL 1,2002



Generals turn on offense in 2 ODAC wins

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For the Washington and Lee men’s la-
crosse team, things are falling into place
at the right time.

Senior Andrew Barnett, the Generals’
leading returning scorer, tallied 10 goals in
two games as W&L knocked off Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference foes Guilford
and Lynchburg on the road this week.

A large contingent of second-yearplayers
hascomplimented Barnett on the offensive end
of the ﬁeld, including Dustin Martin and Matt
Fink, who each had three goals in the Gener-
als’ 15-11 win at Lynchburg on Saturday.

“Our offense is pretty young, a lot of
sophomores,” Martin said. “Last year, we

weren’t really in scoring roles. Our offense
has deﬁnitely jelled over the last few games.”
W&L traveled to Guilford on Wednes-
day, handing the homestanding Quakers a
19-0 loss. Barnett torched Guilford for six
goals, while sophomore Mark McLewee,
senior John Moore and freshman Jack
Murray had two scores apiece and fresh-
man Gavin Molinelli recorded four assists.
The competition improved greatly on
Saturday, and the Generals fell behind 3-0
to the Hornets in the first quarter.
“Falling behind kind of got us down,
but we knew our defense would step up
and get us back into it,” Martin said.
W&L scored ﬁve straight goals to as-
sume a 5-3 lead less than a minute into the
second quarter, but two quick answers from

Lynchburg forged a 5-5 tie at the 12:57 mark.
The Generals again put together an-
other spurt, including two of Barnett’s four
goals, to take a 9-5 advantage. The Hor-
nets pulled to within 9-6 at halftime, but
Barnett scored again early in the third quar-
ter to push the lead back to four goals.

Lynchburg scored twice to make it 10-
8, but Barnett again answered with his fi-
nal tally of the match.

The Hornets weren’t done, however, as
they clipped the W&L lead to 1 1-10 by the
end of the quarter. But the Generals sealed
the win with three straight goals, includ-
ing two of Fink’s three tallies, to go up 14-
10 with 8:31 remaining.

Sophomore Ansel Sanders made 16
saves in net for the Generals, who took 10

fewer shots (49-39) than the Hornets.

W&L (6-2, 3-0 ODAC) hosts the Lee-
Jackson lacrosse classic against VMI at 7
p.m. on Wednesday at the W&L Turf Field.
After that contest, they have nothing but
conference games through the ODAC
Tournament on April 23 and 27.

That includes an April 14 match against
Hampden—Sydney, which prevented the
Generals from reaching the NCAA Division
III tournament a year ago by handing them
a 12-1 1 setback in the regular season.

“The Hampden-Sydney game defi-
nitely has more of a heated rivalry since
what happened last year,” Martin said.
“These next few days of practice are go-
ing to be tough, and I think everyone’s
going to be pretty excited.”

 

 

    

are @ the GHQ A

Bluegrass and Folk

 

lvlenclay April lst8:3{l~n1idnight  

 

1

Internet Editor

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Editor—in—chief, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed to phi @wlu.edu
or in the University Center mailbox by 5 p.m. Friday to ap-
pear in the following weeks edition. The Ring-tum Phi re-
serves the right to edit submissions for content and length.
Letters and columns do not necessarily reﬂect the opinion of
1 the Ring—tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect
the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

THE  PHI

Founder J. Samuel Slicer, Jr. 1899L
Editor-in-chief Matthew B. McDermott
. Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
1 Asst. News Editor Imran Naeemullah
1 Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor Drew Latimer
W&Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy S. Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor MaryE.Guy
Photographer Meg Ferrara
1 Business Manager PaulA.Seifert
Circulation Manager Brian Castleberry
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager William Litton

Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address.’ University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address.' 3] Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email. p/ri@)v'[u.cdi4
http://phi.wl1i.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

. Marlins handed the Generals 13-1 and 4-3 losses.

 

PAGM, .

W&L drops under ‘
.500 in conference :

FROM STAFF REPORTS

    
 
  
  
 
     
      
     
   
  
  

The Washington and Lee baseball team fell to 10-9-1, 5- 1
6-1 in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference, with an 11-
inning tie at Bridgewater and a pair of losses to Virginia
Wesleyan in a doubleheader on Saturday.

The Generals and the Eagles played to a 2-2 deadlock in
11 innings on Thursday beforethe game was called due to
darkness. Sophomore Peter Dean went nine innings on the‘!
mound, giving up just one earned run and striking out ﬁve.

W&L put its two runs on the board in the first inning, as
junior shortstop Michael Hanson doubled and scored on
junior first baseman Brian Gladysz’s two-out single. Senior
catcher Todd Gosselink drove in Gladysz with an RBI single.

Both teams had opportunities to break the deadlock,‘
which Bridgewater forced in the ﬁfth, as the Eagles left 12
men on base and the Generals stranded eight baserunners. 4 I

W&L then traveled to Norfolk for a Saturday double-
header against ODAC powerhouse Virginia Wesleyan. The Ar‘

Wesleyan right fielder John Kreiser was the hero in
Game 2, smacking a two-run home run in the bottom of the P
sixth inning to help his team to a 4-3 win.

)4

Track teams run at Bridgewater invite

BRIDGEWATER—~The Washington and Lee track teams
competed at the Bridgewater Invitational on Saturday.

Junior Mat Rapoza led the men’s team by winning’ the‘
shot put. The Generals’ 4x100 relay team also took first.

Junior Chris Sullivan finished second in the long jump,
while sophomore Jon Brimer turned in second—place fin-
ishes in the 200 and 400-meter runs.

For the women’s squad, senior Megan Babst placed
second in the high jump, and senior Sarah Schmidt took
third in the javelin. Junior Jen Fallon ﬁnished second in ,
the 3,000-meter event. ‘

V TTTTTTTTTTTTTT I  I  

FOR RENTT.

1 3-bedroom furnished ' 
apartment, off street

parking, 5 minutes on foot
from Washington Hall.
$600/month;
utilities not included.

One—year lease. Please call
463-7044 after 5 pm.

 

Fancy Dress Photos

All the Fancy Dress photos are on line now! ! !!
Tell your friends and family about them.
Help preserve your memories.

Check out: www.partypics.com

Use the password: FANCYDRESS

   
     

#1 Spring
§Break

Vacations!

1 1Cancun, Jamaica,

. 1Bahamas, &

Florida.

aBes’r Parties, Best 

Hotels,

Best Prices!

Group Discounts,

. Groups

organizers
irravel free!

1 ,Space is limited!

 1Hurry up (Sr Book ,

1 Now! 

11-300-234-7007 

1 www.endlesssummertours.com

1 1»

1 1
1

)1.‘

 

