 

' H

.V _  V A _  1 LE 2.,’-N‘:”vI‘.'$; ‘N
V‘ \ 4   l V m 2 p 2 t I g V ,3  xgtrl Mt .PI;”y\\;‘}4}_§’;.{f){'_? ~., :, Q 5-,: fly -.1; f3‘OG;‘*\~ PH:
V,/V),  HELLEN (1) PAGE; 5  A ’N  v(‘T _) T     i 3  (")p1?\5]()\]c, '7,
 Ow;-:i.t (';.»\z£ij—Z.\i Ar ’E‘Hl'i / l 5  A  ’  _ '_ . _ / 1' ‘ ' ' ‘ T " " “
 "l‘H.~\’l‘ i..»\.t.,'=r~;<,:i—ie‘.i;> .\ - i I Hi 5 L I  R 1 IL I J * \X7&:i..ll‘* 1-1:’. 5
. Titit )L SXLVI.) Si»i'll’S ’ SPORTS '7
l3;\sF.B.M'..1’.. ¢‘P:\(}-ll‘. 8 - \ . = T ,  7
\' \Xl‘&.l.. .\‘$L’F.F.l—‘S j ('jE;\I_" :\0Thb T
HA..~.ti>1’rt-ax-fS‘xrNF.v 24/ V’, 2 ‘
t)Fil Tm: a‘>i.m-.>.\r13 ’ ‘
« 7 . , 7 -
\.‘':7»:.a»rr.:z=:tIl\’,No. Xlill A  i'.;<-‘.s.:\.'-1.’;-rm, ‘t’;r\t;t>.i~. 2445:} . MO?\ll>;‘i'r’, ;\'l.-'il«‘.t'Tl~E ll, 2élt)2
‘C ‘tr 't5 W&Ld t f ‘d
' BY MATTHEW MC15ERMOTr Acting President Laurent Boetsch both Boetsch and Dean of the Law “I am no longer a candidate in the The Search and Screen Commit- rnittee, consisting of two non-voting
EDITOR_N_CH1EF announced the number of ﬁnalists at School David Partlett strong candi— presidential search,” Boetsch said. “It tee had received approximately 150 faculty and 15 of the Board’s 25 mem-
* ‘ Monday’s faculty meeting. He also re— dates for the position. has been a special privilege for me to nominations by its January 1 dead— bers.

  

 

 

JAMES G. Larwm L.lt;u’;;il:';~y

 

The Search and Screening Com-
mittee has nominated ﬁve ﬁnalists to
ﬁll the vacant position of university

T president. All have taught college

, classes, at least one is female and none

‘ work at Washington and Lee, said

Search and Screening Committee Chair

A Harlan Beckley.

vealed that none of the ﬁnalists were
W&L faculty or administrators.

“The committee has concluded
that the University’s best interests
will be served best by leadership
from the outside,” Boetsch said,

Though nominees’ names are
withheld, student opinion considered

“I was privileged to be inter-
viewed for the presidency,” said
Partlett. “I look forward to working
with a new president who will con-
tinue the tradition of superb leaders
of this great university.”

Partlett came to W&L Law School
from Vanderbilt in 2000.

serve in the capacity of acting president”

Boetsch, an alumnus, joined W&L
in 1976 and was named dean of the col-
lege and academic vice president in 1996.

The Board of Trustees ap-
pointed Boetsch acting president in
August 2001, a position he will oc-

line.

“Every candidate has had experi-
ence teaching and in administration,” said
Beckley. “Each strongly personiﬁes the
published presidential attributes.”

Each of the comnrittee’s ﬁve nomi-
nees must now be considered by the
Board of Trustee’s Nominating Com-

Phi Delta Theta
disassociates 6

Comatose pledge admitted to emergency room

FROM STAFF REPORTS

A Phi Delta Theta pledge in the hospital for alcohol
poisioning lead to the disassociation of six brothers.

Following the pledge’s admission to the hospital, Phi
Delt ofﬁcers drove to Interfratemity Advisor Burr Datz’s house
to discuss the issue. For about twenty minutes, Datz said,
they discussed the concept of responsibility.

“My impression wasn’t that any-
one was being forced to drink,” Datz
said. “It was more like no one inter-
vened in the middle of the situation.”

During the meeting, Datz said,

‘ “We just talked about whether every-
one was acting in their fratemity’s
best interests and in the best interest
of the student who had to be hospi-
talized.”

According to Datz, the fraternity ofﬁcers then ap-
proached six Phi Delt members and discussed the situa-
tion with them. The members agreed to deactivate from
the fraternity.

The Phi was unable to reach Phi Delt president
Doug Aldridge for comment.

Six students are annually sent to the hospital
for alcohol poisoning or an alcohol related injury,
said Dr. Jane Horton, Health Center director. Two
undergraduates so far have been treated there this
term.

“This is the first time this year that a student
has been referred just for intoxication,” Horton said.

In the past students have been emitted into the inten-

    

ATZ

cupy until June 30.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

BY MATTHEW McDBRMOTr
EDlTOR—lN—CHIEF

Honor Scholars came to campus
last week with little to lose and four
years of tuition, room and board to
gain.

The 104 candidates compete
over three days for George Wash-
ington Honor Scholarships, which
make W&L nearly free.
These candidates were
chosen from the 840
honor scholar appli-
cants, 100 more than last
year.

“This year’s group is
the strongest we’ve ever
had,” said Admissions
Counselor Kristen
Binette, who headed the program.
“Half of them are valedictorians or
salutatorians, nearly every person
is in student government or edits
the paper, or is a captain of a var-
sity team.”

The group also tests well, with
an average SAT score of 1480 and
ACT of 33.

up are selected based on their over-

 

BINETTE

“(Candidates) who get invited I

sive care unit for rehabilitation.

Worst case scenarios have involved intubation, where

   

FRUITS OF THEIR LABOR. This term’s LipSync netted food for three area food kitchens. One of

M" ur-

all application, including test
scores, high school record, recom-

The Nominating Committee will
conduct further interviews, and rec-
ommend a candidate to the full
Board by early April. The board will
then select W&L’s twenty-third
president.

“And then everyone will be
informed at the same time,”
Beckley said.

High schoolers
contend for cash

104 candidates inten/iew for full tutiﬁon honor scholarships

plicant body, the key to winning
an honor scholarship is impress-
ing faculty and student panels.

“We look for raw intelligence and
favor students with unusual back-
grounds,” said History Professor Holt
Merchant, who has interviewed since
the program began 30 years ago.

“Everyone has been student
council president or helped out in a
soup kitchen,” Merchant
said. “We look for people
who have done unusual
things.”

In an interview, Mer-
chant said, faculty look
for students who have
“opinions without being
opinionated,” and are able
to talk logically about
their political, religious,
and intellectual beliefs.

After their 1 1 interviews, the fac-
ulty panels gives three “ones,” four
“twos,” and four “threes.” The stu-
dent panels have a similar scoring
system.‘

Candidates with the highest av-
erage get full rides. Other students
are eligible for other grants or
awards.

“With a few exceptions, all of the
ﬁnalists here this week will receive

a tube has been inserted down a student’s throat to fore-
stall airway closing. This has not occurred for four years,
Horton said.

“Nurses admit students to the emergency room
when they don’t feel comfortable monitoring them
in the Health Center,” Horton
said. At Stonewall Jackson’s
emergency room, heart and oxy-
gen monitors are placed on stu-
dents, who are given IV ﬂuids and
tested for injuries.

Emergency room costs are not
covered by the university.

“From talking with Burr, I think
the Phi Delts handled this matter in
a responsible matter,” Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison said.

Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins was not informed
about the freshman pledge’s medical problem.

“I don’t know whether (students) are in the hospital
or the health center,” Watkins said.

“Still, students admitted to the health center have to
undergo alcohol education,” she said.

HOWISON

  W&L i—shares liable for fed

BY PETER DJALALIEV
INTEIWET EDITOR

College campuses have been relatively untouched by copy-
right violation investigations. This may not be true for long.

In December 2001 government agents raided com-
puter sites and conﬁscated hard drives at, among others,
MIT, UCLA, Duke and Purdue. There they found thou-
sands of shared music, video and software ﬁles, the vol-

, untary sharing of which violates copyright law.

A number of students are under investigation and
“probably a few” will soon face criminal charges, said Allan
J. Doody, special agent of U.S. Customs’ Baltimore ofﬁce.

These students are suspected to belong to the
Internet piracy group DrinkOrDie. Founded in 1994 in Mos-
cow, the group became notorious for releasing a pirated

 

them requested cash, and got one third of the total take. The other two, however, requested
food, seen above. W&L students oversee the movement of supplies, which will benefit the
needy in Rockbridge County. LipSync, a time honored tradition, allows pledges to humiliate
themselves for a worthy cause; this year a bachelor auction followed the event.

mendations, extracurricular record,

as well as the essay,” Admissions

Counselor Alexis_Yee—Garcia said.
With such a distinguished ap-

one half tuition (grants),” Y e e -
Garcia said.

see SCHOLARS, page 2

MSA, NAACP host forum on black reparations

FROM STAFF REPPRTS

The federal govemment’s debt to the
descendants of former slaves will be dis-
cussed at a Washington and Lee confer-
ence “Black Reparations: Recompense or
Retribution” on Wednesday from 7 to 9:30
in Leybum Library’s N orthen Auditorium.

Guest participants include Musaemura
Zimunya, a poet from the University of Zim-
babwe, Ronald Walters, director of the Af-

'rican-American Leadership Institute at the

University of Maryland, N ikitah Okembe-
RA Imani, assistant professor of critical
sociology at James Madison University,

and J immy Robinson, Roanoke attorney
and winner of the Thurgood Marshall Hu-
manitarian Award.

Walters is the most widely known of
the group, having appeared on CNN
Crossﬁre, CBS News Nightline, NBC To-
day Show, C—Span and the Jim Lehrer News
Hour.

“The symposium is essentially the
beginning of a series of critical issues dis-
cussions,” said senior Justin Arnold, who
brainstormed the conference.

“As different student organizations
began planning programs for this academic
year, one idea that ﬂoated around was hav-

ing a series of campus discussions that
centered around various sociopolitical is-
sues.”

Arnold’s idea for a conference was
inspired by a treatment of the subject in
the publication Black Issues in Higher
Education.

“Justin was really the one behind this
program,” said Minority Student Associa-
tion Toussaint Crawford.

Arnold sees the conference’s focus
as much on academics as politics.

“We wanted to begin with an issue
that would be interesting, yet challenging,
and one that would perhaps expose our

community to something new,” Arnold
said. “College is the place where we begin
to formulate and challenge our belief sys-
tems by being exposed to various perspec-
tives with which we are unfamiliar.” .

Politics Professor Lucas Morel’s Black
American Politics class will participate in
the discussion. .

The W&L chapter of the NAACP and
the Minority Student Associate are spon-
soring the symposium, which is funded by
the departments of sociology, politics and
economics. The Ofﬁce of Minority Affairs,
headed by Associate Dean of Students
Courtney Penn, also contributed.

 
   

PHUJU BY Mun’ GUY/Ring—tz1mP/11'

-copy of Microsoft Vtfrndows 95 two weeks before the origi-

nal version came out. One of the two suspected ringlead-
ers of the group has recently pled guilty to one felony
count of conspiracy to commit copyright infringement.
He awaits a sentence in the next weeks. The otherring—

leader is still under investigation.

It is not surprising that the government
soon may charge students with copyright
infringement on their personal computers.
Unexpected, however, is its raids on college campuses and
seizure of computers. Considering that Washington and Lee’s
University Computing department has had to limit the Internet
bandwidth used for peer—to-peer ﬁle sharing software, W&L
students might potentially face similar problems.

University Computing has already been contacted
by the Recording Industry Association of America, the

_l_\lBws ANAL_Ys1s

eral prosecution

Motion Picture Association of America and a ﬁrm repre-
senting Adobe Systems, Inc., about students distributing
(sharing with or without intention) copyrighted products.

University Computing has not been surveilling stu-
dent accounts. From complainants, however, the depart-
ment receives the network address of the computer from
which ﬁles are being shared, and the date when the shar-
ing took place.

So far, the University Computing has been only de-
termining theidentity behind the network address and to
sent him a written notification that he should stop sharing
those ﬁles. They do not reveal the identities of the users
violating the copyright.

Now, however, government agents have started raiding
campuses, and W&L users cannot feel as secure anymore.

“We are not going to enforce the law ourselves, but if
ordered by court, we would have no other choice but to

‘ reveal who stands behind those network

*—”~" addresses,” said John Stuckey, director of
University Computing.

Students using peer-to-peer sharing
software, such as Morpheus, violate the copyright of a
work by sharing, and also by downloading it to their own
computer. This makes an unauthorized reproduction of
the work. Downloading songs is thus acrime and some

see FILE-SHARING‘, page 2

Beckley awarded

VA legislature honors religion professor

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

After almost 30 years of teaching at Washington
and Lee, Religion Professor Harlan R. Beckley was one
of 11 professors statewide honored with the Virginia
Legislature’s Faculty Award.

The award is annually given to
professors for commitment to class-
room instruction, scholarship and par-
ticularly service to the community.

Community service played the
largest part in his winning of the
award, Beckley said.

Beckley founded the W&L
Shepherd Poverty Program at W&L,
and works with the Bonner Leaders program and Nabors
Service League.

“(The award) represents even more recognition
for what we’ve done to create and develop the Shep-
herd program,” Beckley said. “Students have helped
to make the program what it is.” I

Chemistry Professor Frank Settle andArt History Pro-
fessor Pamela Simpson are past winners of the FacultyAward

Faculty are nominated by their university. Nomi-
nees are then selected by a committee appointed by
the State Council on Higher Education.

BECKLEY

 

 

  

PAGE 2

 

N 'l}A;Ri\;<;n;tri’s-ii

SCHOLARSZ Expensive event deemed worth the price

from page 1

Student interviews tended to be more un-
orthodox.

Some scholars had to answer questions with
the sugar chicks Peeps in their mouths, to test
their ability to handle unexpected situations with
equanitiniity.

“We had our guys draw their states on
the chalkboard and answer questions about
the population density,” senior Mike
Reynolds said.

Though the interviews are the
competition’s centerpiece, the university also
sponsors open houses, an activities fair and

meals with upperclassmen.

The competition is expensive. For instance,
competitors’ airfare alone costs about $40,000,
Yee-Garcia said, outside of airport shuttles and
gas reiumbursement.

“It’s worth it because these (candidates)
are dynamic,” Binnette said. “They have self
conﬁdence and academic curiostiy.”

“It’s incredibly tiring, but I really enj oiy do-
ing.it,” Merchant said.

“It contributes to the welfare and groth of
W&L. As a teacher I have an interest in getting
the best students possible.”

FlLE—SHARlNGI Feds may be coming to W&L with a warrant

from page 1

what a risk itself. If matter
comes to court, the explanation
“Everybody does it, why can’t
I do it?” would not be valid le-
gal reasoning. However, stu-
dents can protect themselves
by not sharing their ﬁles. Ev-
ery peer-to-peer software sys-
tem has some way of prevent-
ing sharing the user’s files.
Well, this violates the whole
idea of having peer-to-peer
sharing software systems be-
cause.if nobody shares their

ﬁles, there would be no shared
ﬁles. However, this would not
be a valid legal reasoning in
court either. So, it is really a
matter or personal decision
whether to take the risk or not.
Now that there is a precedence
of government officials going
through college campuses,
the risk users are taking is a
little higher, especially for
those that have already re-

As I already said, all shar-
ing software has some way to
prevent sharing (without pre-
venting downloading). Any-
body in W&L who wants to
stop sharing files from his
computer, but does not know
how to do it, can contact the
University Computing
HelpDesk (x4357) and ask for
assistance. Or he could take
risk and hope that nobody is

 

2
W /3

7:30 p.m.—Lecture. “Inventing Guilt and In-
nocence in the Early Witch Trials,” Prof. Rich-
ard Kieckhefer, Northwestern University.
N orthen Auditorium.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ features Recov-
ering Alice. GHQ.

'Ilresday,Mar.5

7:30 p.m.——Lecture. “Conquering Love: the
Bride of God as Knight Errant,” Prof. Barbara
Newman, Northwestern University. Northen Au-
ditorium.

8 p.m.—Lenfest Series. Gateway/Cand1e-
wood International presents “How to Succeed
in Business Wlth0Ut Really Trying.” Keller The-
atre, Lenfest Center.

ceived written notiﬁcations to going to knock on his door with
stop sharing ﬁles. . a court order.
WednesdVay,Mai-.6

6:30 p.m.—Leadership Seminar Series. Lead-
ing with Intelligence and Knowledge. Room 205,
University Center. Facilitated by WC. “Burr”
Datz, director of Leadership Development.

7 p.m.—A Critical Issues Debate. “Black Repara-
tions: Recompense or Ret1ibut:ion.”Aroundtable dis-
cussion format covering the various philosophical,
sociological, economic and legal approaches to black
reparations. Northen Auditorium, Leybum library.

8 p.m—Aleoholics Anonymous Meeting. Fairfax
Lounge. All W&L students, faculty/staff and the Lex-
ington community are welcorrie. Coffee is provided

'Il1ursday,Mar.7

7 pm.—WinterwPoli1ics Filmfest. “Blade Run-
nei” (US, 1982). DirectedbyRidley Scott Room 221,
Williams School. —

Eida3gMan8

2 p.m.——Terroiism: An Interdisciplinary Per-
spective Series. “Terrorism & American Foreign
Policy,” Paul Pillar, Washington policymaker.
Room A214, Science Center.

4:30 p.m—33rd Institute on the Ethics of Jounial-
ism. “WhatAre Jomnalists For‘.7”Wrl1iam Raspbeny.
Room 327, Williams School. Open to the Public.

MONDAY. MARCH 11. 2002

GOING FOR THE BRONZE

 

Dean Howison to retire

David L. Howison, Washington and
Lee University’s Dean of Students, has an-
nounced his intention to retire after the

_ 2002-03 academic year. »

Howison joined W&L as dean of stu-
dents in 1990 after 22 years at St. Lawrence
University in Canton, N .Y., where he served
as dean of student affairs, director of the
school’s Noble University Center and as
an assistant dean of students.

In a recent letter to his staff, Howison
said he wanted to retire at a time that was
suitable for the University, while also ac-
commodating the retirement dreams he
shares with his wife, Chris.

“As I considered the timing of my re-
tirement, I wanted to balance my personal
needs with what would be best for the Uni-
versity. The end of the 2003 academic year
is the right time,” said Howison. “This will
allow the new president to select a new dean
of students and, if all goes well, I’ll have a
month or two overlap with the new dean to
facilitate the transition. .

W&L acting President Laurent Boetsch ex-
pressed best wishes to Howison, adding that his
career has been a great asset to the University.

“I am enormously grateful for the won-
derful work that David has done here at W&L
in a position that is arguably the most diffi-
cult on this or any campus,” said Boetsch.

On a personal note in his letter, Howison
told his colleagues that, 20 years ago, “I prom-
ised myself if I was still on my feet at 60 land
had my wits about me, I would have the good
sense to move on to the next stage of my life.
Well, I’m 60 now and it’s time to move on.

“I want to play golf. I want to work on

‘my chess game and play in some touma-

ments. I want to get involved with the
Rockbridge Area Recreational Organization
and help with the youth recreation program
in Lexington,” he noted. “And, if my body
holds up, I want to win the national champi-
onship in the 800-meters run before I’m 90.”
As dean of students, Howison brought
his academic background in higher educa-
tion, outdoor recreation and counseling into
his work both as an administrator and as a
personal friend to many students. He is
known for his “auxiliary office” that he often
sets up outside the University snack bar.

Alumnus wins an award

For their outstanding efforts to educate and
enlighten through art, Dudley Cocke Jr. (W &L
’68) and Rick Lowe have been jointly awarded
the 8th Annual Heinz Award for Arts and Hu-
manities. Cocke has helped bring to life aregional
theater that celebrates the culture and voices of
people living in the Appalachian Mountains,
while Lowe has brought public art to beleaguered
parts of Houston’s urban landscape.

 



 

 

A .
meetavedframihe c’enIerwherestwlw1;sad!u::s<with
vmaarianundwaaa drunk drivertwlrtaerﬁte.

Frﬁerm Don‘: Let Friends

 

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies presents:

“Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism”

terrorism.

 

-c»v<awllB'I3JIﬁnv*\I(:r¢-.|1.1v:|.w..n.\ Irv‘ .. - ..

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking
qualified undergraduate applicants to participate in a
fellowship program entitled “Defending Democracy,
Defeating Terrorism”.

The fellowship program will commence August 3-21 in Tel
Aviv and will allow participants to interact with academics,
diplomats and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan,
Turkey, and the United States. FDD fellows will be
provided with all room, board, and travel expenses.

FDD is a non—profit, non-partisan and non—ideologica1 think
thank that promotes informed debate about politics and
positions that will most effectively abolish international

Questions? email to fellows@defendddemocracy.org

For additional details and application visit:
www.defenddemocracy.org

'3-H;

 

A

1*

. -.z-.rr- x ->1-r.~.«.:\~».—_!

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2002

.-. ».. 1.2:.» sr3a‘.*-1Hro€z,v£w€'§-:u¢2Irx::\rnuc:v&.-rs-<~\;2- -..-_c:-. ”':'!Iur:7.°.I:’.‘.-_;‘lIa _'.-v.ac..~. aL-'K':f' -W-..~n-.-_ .-.- um-xv -.;.»-.-

.. -3.... .;—. ‘.21-_.-.;.

 RrNG-'r'tN:l°i«ii

TAFF EDITORIAL

It is not acceptable to ask
your FD date on Mar. 21

The Phi admittedly does present a chill-
ingly androgynous face, devoid of sex, age or
national origin. The distillation of objective truth,
a brew this paper dolls out weekly, does not
permit these foreign substances.

However, one of the purposes of the staff
editorial (besides dispensing enlightenment and
speaking truth to power) is to occasionally drop
the mask and let the human face show through.

Fancy Dress is one of those occasions.

Because of W&L’s charmingly old-fash-
ioned/ridiculously out-dated social mechanics,
it is the gentleman’s responsibility to secure a
date. Some men take this for granted, and, as a
result, our women languish. ,

We have a patriotic duty to ask W&L girls,
since imports tend to dilute our exclusivity.

With the best possible will, and acknowl-
edging exceptions, most of those schools’
women’s families do not have the net worth of
their W&L counterparts. How are we to con-
tinue concentrating this country’s wealth into

fewer and fewer hands if

We have a patriotic we date the help?
Also, think of the poor,
duty to ask W&L unasked W&L girls (mostly

girls, since imports
tend to dilute our
exclusivity.

C-school majors, likely) who
will be forced to spend
March 22"“ poring over
their spreadsheets and bud-
get statements.

No one wants to spend the biggest social
night of the year over an asset liability portfo-
lio. Rather, we should be adding to our per-
sonal portfolio through selective dating.

There are other reasons besides ﬁnancial
for inviting a female student of the home grown
variety. I
W&L women are better versed in the in-
tricacies of inebriation ettiquent. They have far
more experience in nursing drunks back to a
semblance of sobriety or plotting the quickest
course to the inﬁrmary.

Consider finally that there are fewer
women than men on campus.

However, the tardiness of FD proposals to
consummately eligible W&L ladies suggests
that there are even fewer men than we think.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

‘‘I WAS NEVER A GIRL SCOUT.”

—ANONYMOUS PHI ASSOCIATE EDITOR
REFLECITNG ON A MISSPENT LIEE:

zzws-.-

Editor—in—chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Matthew B. McDerrnott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Irnran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latimer
MatthewA. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy ,
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. Trinidad
Mary E Guy

J eb Brooks

Meg Ferrara

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers
‘Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi

or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-

tions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

TEE RrNG~*nn:r PHQI

  PINIONS

BRErr T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR
FMAIE-KRwANr@\nnEDU

Fear of envy drives liberals

In his speech last Tuesday, Dr.
Jack Wheeler, in addition to sharing
fascinating stories of an adventure-
ﬁlled life, gave a summary of very con-
vincing, consistent and well-founded
theory on the trouble with Muslim
terrorism. Identifying al—Qaeda, Yasser
Arafat and others as “Arab Nazis,”
Wheeler explained that the ideology
of Muslim terrorism is part and parcel
with Nazism and Communism. He ex-
plained that these three “social dis-
eases” go together because they are
all “religions of envy.” Nazis were

envious of Jews, Communists were '

envious of the bourgeois, and Mus-
lim terrorists are envious of the West.

Dr. Wheeler was unafraid of call-
ing the West, and America in particu-
lar, better than the cultures that have
produced these terrorists. The differ-
ence, he said, stems from cultural
“memes,” which, in the same way that
genes control a species’ development,
are traditions and beliefs that control
a cu1ture’s development. America is
successful because we have the
memes of the rule of law, separation
of church and state and equality for
all races and sexes. Muslim cultures
have produced terrorism because
they have the defective memes of re-
ligious government, abusive attitudes
toward women and intolerance of
non—Muslims. He concluded that if we
are to ever defeat Muslim terrorism as
surely as we defeated Nazism and
Communism, we must change the very
cultures of Muslims and create secu-
lar states along the line of Turkey. '

With so much evidence piled up
in favor of America and against Mus-
lim terrorists, why do some Ameri-
cans insist on claiming equality be-
tween our cultures ?_ Just as many lib-
erals denied the true nature of the
Soviet Union during the Cold War,
many today deny the true nature of
the culture that produces Muslim ter-
rorism and instead point to the fail-
ures of the United

tively disgusted by America’s display
of patriotism following Sept. 11 and
rather than cheer the unifying inﬂu-
ence on the nation, he has called into
question our moral uprightness in the
battle against terrorism.

Another fine example of liberal

confusion on the justiﬁability of our «

anti—terrorism action is Robert Scheer,
a columnist for The Los Angeles Times,
who claims that dissent and intellec-
tual freedom have suffered since the
attacks so much so that America is

equivalent to the Soviet Union.
Frank Rich of The New York
Times has accused the President of
stiﬂing dissent in his own cabinet
claiming, that “only after (Homeland
Security Director) Mr.

States and deny that RIGHT OF THE AISLE Ridge arrived on the
we have moral superi— scene was the sur-
ority in this war. BRETT  _ geon general liber-
‘ For example, - ated from the gulag.”

feminists who previously were, rightly
so, appalled by the Taliban’s treat-
ment of women, have changed their
tune since the war began. As soon as
they saw that ousting the regime and
rescuing the women of Afghanistan
would require military action, they
have focused on the minuscule num-
bers of Afghan civilian casualties
rather than the success we have had
in bringing women out from behind
the burqa.

Norman Mailer, featured in last
week’s “Coward of the Week,” is an-
other excellent example. Mailer is posi-

Letter to the Editor

Sober? drivers conflict with tow trucks

Dear Editor,

I, a law-abiding freshman, made the mistake of leav-
ing my car parked overnight on Saturday in the Lambda
Chi Alpha Fraternity parking lot. The car was there be-
cause I had been sober driving for the fraternity earlier
in the evening. I had plans to pick the car up Sunday

afternoon.

Sunday morning, I was startled by a phone call tell-
ing me that my car was being towed. The call came, not
4 from University Security, who had no plans to contact me,
but from a friend who was up at the house. I made a mad
dash from my home in Graham-Lees to the Lambda Chi
parking lot where I was greeted by a tow tr'uck and Ofﬁcer
M. Davis who informed me that I was to pay $35 to the
individual in the truck. My problem is not with this pay-
ment, the fact that I was almost towed or that I have to pay
an additional $25 ticket because I was “not in freshman
lot.” My concern arises from a discovery made during a
brief interview with Ofﬁcer Davis. I was informed that fresh-
men sober drivers are not permitted to park their cars in
any parking lot; not even for a second.
Fraternities often’ ‘strongly encourage’ their fresh-
men pledges to be sober drivers. Those freshmen al-

Rich claimed that Pres. Bush had
forced Surgeon General David Satcher
out of the public eye as if the KGB
had carted him off to Siberia. I sup-
pose it couldn’ t be that the public was
more interested in hearing about the
war than they were in the Surgeon
General’s news on obesity and Dr.
Satcher knew to stay out of the way.

Finally, Alexander Cockburn
writes in the New York Press that
America is approaching “the tradi-
tional barriers of imperial retribution,”
but more startlingly, he concocts a
conspiracy theory involving the CIA

Meg Ferrara/ The Ring—tz1m Phi
ALL ABOUT MEMES: V/heeler, with walrus bone, expounds on the uprightness of the West

and a Bush 41-connected biotechnol-
ogy corporation producing and de-
liverin g the anthrax that killed the tab-
loid writers in Boca Raton. That’s
right, America is at war, but the CIAis
using it only as an opportunity to use
anthrax to kill off editors at The Sun.

Where does all this idiocy and
self—loathing come from? How can, in
this time of the utmost moral clarity,
these people be so confused as to the
uprightness of our cause? It stems
from the liberal fear of envy. Muslim
terrorists conduct their war due to un-
controllable envy toward the West.
Liberals decry ours because they can-
not stand to be envied.

Examples abound from more
peaceful times. Social Security pro-
tects young, wealthy liberals from the
envy of the elderly and retired. Wel-
fare protects liberals from the envy of
the poor and less—fortunate. Soft
stances on crime and opposition to
the death penalty protect liberals from
the envy of criminals. Opposition to a
strong national defense protects lib-
erals from the envy of our sworn en-
emies and nations that cannot sup-
port such large forces. Anti— globaliza-
tion and support for massive humani-
tarian aid protects liberals from the
envy. of the poor and dispossessed
world wide.

But as Dr. Wheeler said, no na-
tion is free of defective memes. Ap-
parently, America has some of her own
to work out.

most always drive cars that are permitted to be parked

only in the freshmen lot. The drivers, according to
Officer Davis, are never permitted to leave their ve-

simple “no.”

hicles in non—freshmen lots. I asked him if fraternities
might alert University Security to the identities of the
sober drivers for the evening and that they might then
give those individuals a little more freedom when it
comes to parking procedures. He responded with a

I have the utmost respect for University Security
Ofﬁcers; they are simply doing their jobs. I also have
the utmost respect for sober drivers who are one of the
most important lines of defense against disaster. Officer
Davis was following his rules and regulations, and sober
drivers are following theirs. I see an inherent conﬂict
that exists within the behavior of both parties. I would
hope that the rules governing both groups may be dis-
cussed and an agreement reached that allows sober driv-
ers to focus on the care of Washington & Lee students
who need their help and not a fear of losing their car or a
great deal of money. Sober drivers should be given free-
reign to do what they need without the encumbering

concern of towing.

Sincerely,
J eb Brooks ‘05

PAGE 3

Pledgeship demands

mirror fraternity crisis

Hell Week has descended upon our fair campus,
and every fraternity brother on campus is working dili-
gently to guarantee that name isn’t a misnomer.

Suddenly, classrooms seem a lot less populated.
Sales of caffeine pills rise noticeably. Pledges who aren’t
donning ridiculous costumes wear their blue blazers
and talk in hushed voices with fellow brothers-to-be.
To most freshmen the somber mood that pervades
Lexington’s atmosphere is unmistakable.

As one of those many freshmen teetering on the
brink of Hell, an images of a pressure cooker comes to
mind. Even
though the Greek
system taxes our
strength more
than ever, profes— ,
sors refuse to give in and budge an inch. For the next
144 hours we lowly Greek warmabes will feel strain and
stress heaped upon us from all sides at nearly every

COGENT COMMENTARY
_. @£9§ .... -

hour of the day. The warnings have been clear: when- _

ever you are not at the house, attending class or catch-
ing the daily allotment of two hours of sleep, use every
moment to do your schoolwork.

Little wonder that posters touting checklists for
depression and suicide hotlines just so happened to
spring up all over the freshman dormitories. I’d be hard
pressed to call that a mere coincidence.

All in all, if one assessed Washington and Lee
Greek life based solely upon the days leading up to
initiation, it wouldn’t be hard to make a case for abol-
ishing the system altogether and writing off fraterni-
ties as exercises of collective sadism. You’d argue that
the only ones who would suffer would be the employ-
ees of the local wooden paddle industry.

Yet just as freshmen have the nasty habit of put-
ting their blinders on during Hell Week, so too do crit-
ics of fraternity life. Sure, treatment might be harsh for
eight weeks, but even a languishing pledge can recog-
nize that the beneﬁts far outweigh the detractions.

However, t1'ying to describe the positive side of
Greek life to someone who has never been in a frater-
nity is like attempting to explain colors to someone
who’s been locked away in a cave all his life. What
they can’t realize is that while there exist extreme cases
that defy any defense, for the most part what may seem
unnecessary or abusive in fact builds unity.

The situation is doubly precarious for school ad-
ministrators, the ones who are held responsible in case
a house runs afoul of the law during Winter Term.
Surely the specter of such infamous tragedies such as
the 1998 untimely end of a University of Washington
student who hanged himself the day after initiation or
the recent alcohol poisoning deaths at the University
of Maryland dances in their nightmares.

The last thing Washington Hall wants is a lawsuit
or high-proﬁle hazing death to mar Washington and
Lee’s reputation. Naturally, it must feel inclined to take
a clear cut course of action: continue to extend ofﬁcial
domain over fraternities while forcefully minimizing their
inﬂuence.

The first major salvo in this battle was fired with
the completion of the first ofﬁcial dining hall in 1959,
unseating the fraternity houses as the student’s pri-
mary option for meals. The current construction of the
University Commons is a continuation of this effort to
move the axis of extracurricular life farther away from
the orbit of Greek authority. Some might even say that
the Fraternity Renaissance also constituted an admin-
istration victory. .

When does it stop? When is enough enough?
Whether the fear is justiﬁed or not, the sense amongst
students is that university management from the top
down is through—and-through anti-fraternity. Rumors
of certain houses being kicked off campus in the future’
run rampant, especially at times like these when ten-
sions run high.

I don’t know if I’m the only person who sees this,
but it looks like the nextyear and the selection of a new
president will shape what direction the Greek system
will take from here on out. The feeling I got from man-
dated Inter-Fraternity Council Meetings indicated that
even they were conscious of the fact that we’re skat-
ing on thin ice.

In order to counteract university pressure, the
IFC must become far more robust. Whereas houses
may be rooted in tradition and ritual, the IFC has to
force itself to consistently update and consolidate
its power, a seemingly daunting task to an outsider
like me. Yet it lies with the Council, not individual
fraternities, to expand Greek control lest the entire
system crumble.

In these days of constant demands upon pledges,
Greek life at large also faces pressure on all sides. It will
take greater cooperation and selﬂessness in order to
preserve the system as we know it, but instead of eight
weeks of effort, this struggle might rage for years.

  TALKBACY: CADETS, irtEYDONr\X/&LANDVMI GET ALONG?

 

“The girls don’t talk to
me when I run through.”
—-Williarn Butt, ‘05

 

“The uppity attitude of

 

 

    

“We can’t go to the

“We can’t go to
. “Id ’tkr1 .” A . . ,,
the parties.” the students.” on ow Yvhy fraternity parties.
—-Daniel Harrison, ‘05 --Kathy Aldrich, ‘O5 --Paul Stamp’ 02 «Chris Meyers ‘04

 

  

PAGE 4

 

People often question me about my association with
and membership in the controversial organization
Greenpeace. True, some of the things they protest may
seem a bit unnecessary and their tactics a bit over the top.
I, however, do not agree.

One topic of interest to myself and Greenpeace has
been in the news this week: genetically altered food. I
recently had a friend of mine who is staunchly conserva-
tive and Republican bring this issue up with me.

He sent me an online article that I wish I could find. It
had some hilarious ideas about how genetically altered
food could be of some great benefit in the world. One of
the really amusing suggestions was that
this food could be made more durable and
sent overseas to victims of war and fam-
ine in need of assistance.

First of all, let’s think about this for a
minute. What do we sent to countries in need of aid? To
answer this we have to think about what is really basic.
What are the fundamental ingredients that can easily be
used to make food? It is usually things like ﬂour and
grain? A few of the more easily used and durable grains
that come to mind are things like wheat and com.

A Well, if you had noticed the tiny article on the very
back page of the A Section to Friday’s Washington Post,
then you know that genetically altered corn just cost the
food industry $9 million in lawsuits.

This week a Chicago judge awarded the firm of
Krislov and Associates $2.4 million in a class action
lawsuit the firm filed on behalf of consumers. Aside
from paying this fee, the companies involved also had
to include over $6 million in coupons on their prod-
ucts as payment back to the public.

i So, what was the problem you ask? Apparently
these companies had been using something known as

 

Oiiiiii bNs
Genetically altered foods illicitly made way ont supermarket shelves  

LEFT OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘03

 

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 2002

Starlink corn seed in products that had made their way
into supermarkets.

Now the Environmental Protection _Agency has ap-
proved the use of Starlink corn seed. But they have ap-
proved it for use in animal feed. It has not been approved
as of yet for human consumption, however. Oops. As a
matter of fact, this genetically engineered corn is known
to cause a high number of allergic reactions in humans.

Therefore, had this wonderful product been sent to
the war—ravaged villages of Afghanistan marked as “Re—
lief Packages,” as suggested by this article given to me, it
actually could have made many individuals sick.

What’s more, these products are still
right under our noses. Many of the
country’s more popular chain grocery
stores use genetically engineered ingredi-
ents in its own store brand products.

Therefore, as part of its 2002 Supermarket Campaign,
Greenpeace will be taking on the large chain store,
Safeway. As the case in Chicago demonstrates, as of yet
there are too many uncertainties when it comes to prod-
ucts like these. There are reasons that we grow foods
naturally. There are reasons we look forthe words, “All
Natural,” on the packaging of the things we buy.

However, we now have evidence that some companies A

are using products that are not even approved for human
consumption. It kind of makes you wonder what exactly
you are eating. I realize that all foods have a certain level of
impurities in them. That is to be expected. But when science
comes in and purposefully begins to change food in an
effort to make it “better” we begin to encounter problems.

So get educated. Find out what it is you are actually
eating. Realize that there is actually a reason people like
me are concerned. Like they say, the body is a temple. Just
be sure that you know what is going into it.

I have found that my typi-
cal pre—deadline writer’s block can

be easily alleviated by virtue of Top ‘

10 Lists. David Letterman’s suc-
cess revealed. I mean, there’s a lot
of pressure in picking just one topic
to write about.

If a ton of people have nega-
tive amounts of interest in said sub-

. ject, then there’s seven- hundred-

words rendered useless. However,
with a Top 10 list, you cover a wider
audience, thereby increasing you
success rate exponentially.

As a follow up to my last piece
on the “Top 10 People I Wish I Were
Friends With,” I thus present for
you reading quasi-pleasure, The

Top 10 People that Should Be
Phased Out of the Evolutionary
Cycle. They are most definitely not
contributing to the betterment of
humanity as a whole. Superficial
Darwinism at its absolute finest.

1. Anyone with a vanity plate.
Standard.

2. Anyone who engages in ar-
guments about who has more work
to do. That is unequivocally the
biggest waste of time in the his-
tory of life. By eliminating these
people, and therefore their argu-
ments, time is saved in the long
run. All such saved time can be
accumulated, and an extra day can
be added on to the calendar. For a

big party celebrating the merits of
Mix CD’s. Or some other worth-
while cause.

3. Any sophomore who didn’t
wholly appreciate the literary ge-
nius of his freshman reading book,
“Franny and Zooey.” Given the
other repertoire of
summer reading, it
was a gift from God. '

4. People who
interrupt jokes with
the punchline.

5. Anyone who constantly re-
lates a story by to him or herself. I
think that’s a technique fine-tuned
in upper level education. The abil-
ity to somehow twist a story so that

+-(M. .m.e.e.~..-¢-;,~.: ¥'o:v;..>.:, 

llllll lllll ill IHE PM

:

    ~  we Fm‘.       
organize mmmas and  them where they're mmtw meat.-. Esavacisﬁly ﬁgﬁtziag
as 21%;: ttttris 313.5%}.-'_g’f’?t5m  tr” s,~mt‘rt:. in at mmzmaziay gamma. ask it was cam «Sc

 

 vs at  Z  {ling itttifttrél 

El Elllléltlllﬂlll Elllllllll.

 he teatntatg up waif: a cesztaazniry éeaéﬁrécm. tta realty =5:-;m;_:l¢-. gum  $7,‘;
 er ta}: I~£.'1"‘NttD§«3t.3 ta mxtwx it rmmwnftztr
' . in your area. Thaw: mt was %‘;'?té’tt§!ZIl'(  ymr grantee an train. Yauliﬁ be
rszgsrariited at sieétat. Wu  Rt agent. Am  mm: was ran 3€.£'!I;‘il'Xt§It§§i‘§3'ta..

Y'ﬂ=’U GE’? Mﬂtlfi ‘hlﬂiﬁ "(ﬁll G=ET,'TQGE'5'ﬂE3I

 

     

(I )ll(IIi\\' ll'll'll'.'TRl I7<'X)[).V()ll',(1R(}

FRANKENPOOD: This assortment of Greenpeace stickers exhorts consumers to reconsider their purchasing choices.

Whom would you vote off the island? Pollina offers her picks

its theme does a 180 and pertains

to you.
“French toast isn’t the same
thing in France as it is in America.”
“One time I was in Chicago eat-

» ing French food.”

6. Easily offended people. My
favorite part about
Michael Denbow's

NoRTHERNoi’s.'l§.A:EosURE notoriety is that in
Kris PoLL1AA_f03

harassing him,
i you’re just prov-
ing his point.

7. Anyone who employs the
phrase, “I wasn’t drunk enough to
enjoy myself.”

8. People who entertain per-
sonal vendettas through thinly

veiled class discussions or news-
paper articles.

9. People who don’t leave mes-
sages on answering machines. I
used to never do it either, because
I hated the idea of my voice being
recorded, and what if there were
other people in the room listening,
and what if——a very high risk—I
said something erring on the side
of idiotic and then it was on tape
for everyone to fully understand
the caliber of my lack of coherence.

But then on the other hand,
leaving messages takes all this
pressure off you. You’re no longer
in charge of keeping the conversa-
tion going. You did your duty as

an American and called, and now
the ball’s in the cal1ee’s court.

10. Any of those college dudes
or chicks that go on “The Price is
Right” with their entire fraternity or
sorority. A

That totally doesn’t eliminate that
much of the population at all. We can
absolutely still survive without the
aforementioned unfortunates. Yet, at
the same time, we can probably still
live with them, too.

I suppose once again I have
contributed to the delinquency of
readers. Mylgrievous apologies
extend to those who were hoping
to save time and get that extra day
at the end of the year. I owe you.

av if “ ¥_/..

/

,)°*"*" 2 , 

 

Gerald lltus, law student, elected president

BY MATTHEW A. COURSEN
w&LIEE EDITOR

How does it feel to be the President-elect of the Executive
Committee ?

It feels great. I’m very excited and eager to get started.
So you went to W&L for your undergraduate degree also ?

Yes, I graduated in 2000 and was a member of Phi
Gamma Delta. I also played on the varsity basketball team.
I’m now a second-year law student across campus.

Is this your ﬁrst time serving on the student government?

No, I’ ve been the EC representative to the law school
for the past two years. I was never involved with student
government in high school, but I was always interested in
it. When I graduated from W&L a couple of years ago,
one of the things that brought me back here for law school
was my desire to be on the EC.

What one quality do you think is essential to have in order to
be an eﬂective leader on the EC?

Experience is the key factor. Learning the procedures and
protocol is a big part of the job, and I think it would be ex-
tremely difﬁcult for someone who had never experienced that
to come in and serve as president.

What is the one thing about this school that you do not
want to see changed?

The Honor System at W&L is deﬁnitely much stronger
now than it was when I first arrived here 6 years ago. I would
like to see that continue, and I encourage the faculty to con-
tinue embracing the Honor System. We need their support.

‘ What do you like to do on your free time?

Well, with what little I have between studying, classes,
and spending time at home with my wife and our dog, I just
love to hunt and fish as much as possible. I grew up in a
little town in West Virginia much like Lexington only with-
out the history, tradition, student population and charm.
What do you hope to improve while you serve as the
leader of the student body?

Well, online cheating has been brought to the atten-
tion of the EC recently. Fortunately, Rob [Naftel] has done
a great job of addressing this issue appropriately and force-
fully. We’re seeing more and more of this new-age cheat-
ing going on, mostly with younger students, and I would

, like to see that stopped altogether.

Does this job make you nervous at all?

Well, it is a big job with a lot of responsibility, but
I’m excited about the opportunity to represent a school
with such a rich history and strong student autonomy.
I’m very proud and happy to be the next President of
the EC.

Preview of

BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

The 74th annual Academy Awards are fast approach-
ing, and everyone is wondering who will win. ‘Lord of
the Rings’ and ‘A Beautiful Mind’ seem poised to sweep
every category, but strong performances and amazing
direction in such films as ‘Black Hawk Down’ and ‘Ali’
could make these awards exciting and unpredictable. I’m
not a prophet, but here are my predictions for this year’s
Oscars: ‘

Best Picture:
Nominees: ‘A Beautiful Mind,’ ‘The Lord of the

Rings,’ ‘Gosford Park,’ ‘In the Bedroom,’ ‘Moulin Rouge!’

Predictions: There are only two clear contenders in
this category. The Oscar will go to either ‘The Lord of the

’ Rings’ or ‘A Beautiful Mind.’ The other three nominees are

strong films, but not one can be called the best ﬁlm of the
year. My vote goes to ‘The Lord of the Rings.’ Ron
Howard’s ‘A Beautiful Mind’ is a stirring examination of the
horrors of mental illness and the beauty of nature, but it
does not compare in scope and grandeur to ‘Rings.’ It just
doesn’t have the impact.

Winner: ‘The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of
the Ring.’ '

Best Actor: ‘

Nominees: Russell Crowe (‘A Beautiful Mind’),
Sean Penn (‘I Am Sam’), Will Smith (‘Ali’), Denzel Wash-
ington (‘Training Day’), Tom Wilkinson (‘In The Bed-
room’).

Predictions: This is a tough one. Let me begin by
stating that I am praying that Russell Crowe does not
win again. His performance pales in comparison to the
real John Nash, and the Academy will be voting for ce-
lebrity if they give this New Zealander another award.
It’s a toss-up between Will Smith and Denzel Washing-
ton. After a string of movies that showcased his more
annoying qualities, Sn1ith’s portrayal of Muhammad Ali
solidified him as a legitimate actor. Denzel Washington
has been waiting for years for this award, and I think it is
time for the Academy to recognize his ability. Although
Smith was strong, I think the Oscar will go to Denzel
Washington, he deserves it.

Winner: Denzel Washington (‘Training Day’).

Best Actress:

Nominees: Halle Berry (‘Monster’s Ball’), Judi Dench
(‘his’), Nicole Kidrnan (‘Moulin Rouge!’ ), _Sissy Spacek (‘In
The Bedroom’), Renee Zellweger (‘Bridget Jones’ Diary’).

Predictions: Again, another tough pick. My guess
is the Oscar will go to either Sissy Spacek or Halle Berry.
My vote goes to Sissy Spacek. Her performance was
amazing. But I’m pretty sure this one could go either way.

Winner”: Sissy Spacek (‘In The Bedroom’).

K’ ‘ 'l’HE .lilNi’}—’iEf‘IFj.‘ri PI-sI1I1
W & IFE

Titus, Hughs t assume EC offices

I\I\RY GIY/ IIzeRr'ng-rumP/21'
GERALD TITUS

l’rl(lI()(I)ll(Il-.\) HI: 'l1.).\
HELEN HUGHES

‘organization,

Helen Hughes joins elite cadre of female officers

BY KATIE J. HOWELL
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

“They always want me to bake
cookies,” sophomore Helen Hughes
jokingly said of her relationship with
the other members of the male-
dominated Executive Committee.

Students elected Hughes as EC
secretary last week from two male
candidates. Hughes is the first female
EC ofﬁcer since Beth Forrnidoni served
as president as a third—year law student
in 1998-1999.

“I didn’t run to be a ‘first,’ I just
ran because I care about the school
and the Honor System,” Hughes said.

Hughes, who currently serves as
an EC class representative, said she
ran for EC secretary in order to “step
up her responsibilities” within
student government and to serve the
school in a different way. She thinks,
however, that it is important for
women to hold leadership roles on
campus. ‘

“Women in leadership roles is
important, because I think the women
students may feel more comfortable
when their perspectives are heard
and understood,” she said. “When
considering a difficult issue,
diversity always leads to a better
decision.”

Women around campus look
forward to having more representation
in the school’s primary student
government organization. Associate
Dean of Students and Counseling
Psychologist Anne Schroer—Lamont
believes women should be equally
represented in all aspects of campus
life. -
“Women need to be half of the
leadership force in every
corporation,
association, university/college which
is in existence to serve a mix of women
and men and/or children,” she said.

“The best of all decisions will be
made when all people who are
affected by outcomes are
represented in balanced ratios.
Diversity of cultures, gender, race
and religion need to be represented
in judicial bodies especially and
groups who are dispersing funds.”

Hughes, who believes she has
an obligation to her gender as an
EC representative, thinks that the
EC and other student organizations
do not have high female
representation because of W&L’s
all—male history.

“The EC is deeply rooted in
tradition, and all traditions are slow
to change,” Hughes said. “The school
hasn’t had a lot of time to experience
women in the job. . I’m glad they are
getting to see more women do it now.”

After sixteen years of
coeducation at W&L only a handful
of women have served the school as
EC representatives and even fewer as
officers. Schroer—Lamont thinks
women could be better represented
on campus.

“Women are not well
represented on campus to the extent
that they could be, with the
exceptions of our nursing staff and
our secretaries,” she said. “We are
not yet balanced in admissions, on
the faculty, in the administration, or
among the Trustees. We can do
much better and must.”

According to “Washington and
Lee University Fact Book 2001-
2002,” the ratio of female to male
students is 45% to 55%. Of the
thirteen member 2001-2002 EC,
Hughes and freshman representative
Anne Johansen are the only two
female members. Students will vote
for next year’s sophomore, junior,
senior, second and third—year law
class representatives next week.

See Helen Hughes On page 6

the 74th annual Oscars

(Illl’lF.\\'\‘I"\WL'.l.\lD\'.U).\l

Best Supporting Actor: I
Nominees: Jim Broadbent (‘Iris’), Ethan Hawke

(‘Training Day’ ), Ben Kingsley (‘Sexy Beast’), Ian McKellen
(‘The Lord ofThe Rings’), Jon Voight (‘Ali’).

Predictions: Ben Kingsley should win this award.
His performance as a British gangster in ‘Sexy Beast’ en-
veloped the screen. Ian McKellen is a top contender, as
well as Jon Voight. But their performances lacked the
presence of Kingsley’s. Voight and McKellen have celeb-
rity, but Kingsley is the dark horse candidate I’m voting
for.

Winner: Ben Kingsley (‘Sexy Beast’).

Best Supporting Actress:
Nominees: Jennifer Connelly (‘A Beautiful Mind’),

Helen Mirren (‘Gosford Park’), Maggie Smith (‘Gosford
Park’), Marisa Tomei (‘In The Bedroom’), Kate Winslet
(‘Iris’). '

Predictions: Jennifer Connelly’s performance as the
wife of mathematician John Nash will take home the Oscar
this year. Connelly’s performance draws you to her, and
every moment she appeared on screen she grabbed my
attention. Her subtle strength and courage shines through
throughout the film. Marissa Tomei could be a dark horse
in this category, but my vote still goes to Connelly

Winner: Jennifer Connelly (‘A Beautiful Mind’).

Best Director:

Nominew: PeterJackson (‘The Lord of The Rings’), Robert
Altrnan(‘GosfordPark’), RidleyScott(‘BlackHawkDown’), David
Lynch(‘Mullholand Drive’), Ron Howard(‘ABeautiful Mind’).

l-(I'll).//\\\Y\‘\".\lll’(1s'lIl?St(1)lI/G.\llI-RY..\\I’?.\lI):2867&Ill1F3089l6
Predictions: This may be the hardest category to
predict. My vote goes to Peter Jackson. The diffi-
culty of bringing Tolkein’s infinitely complex fantasy
to the screen was immense. Jackson’s story is detailed
enough to be interesting, but not so detailed that it
goes on complex tangents and becomes confusing.
Ron Howard surprised me with ‘A Beautiful Mind.’ I
always saw him as more of a storyteller than a director,
but his soft tones and quiet scene direction make the
details of nature beautiful and vivid. Ridley Scott,
Robert Altman, and David Lynch all display a rare ge-
nius, but the massive effort that Jackson heaped onto
his film will prevail.

l\LAI'IHE\x'CODRsEN&CATIIER1I\IEGUY
W&lIIE EDITORS

EAIAr;couRsEI\M@\IInEDU&GIIYO@vIInEDU
MONDAY, MARCH ll, 2002

The guy next door: 1 :3,
Why I wenttoVlVlI

V BY SAMIAGRONE/STAH=  r

Nobody thought I would go to military school. I
graduated from Gar-Field Senior High in Woodbiidge,
Va., which is mainly known for the high ratioofgas
stations-to—people and an outlet mall so big that it’s
measured in miles, not stores.

Most of the kids I knew had parents that worked
in Washington, in and around the federal government.
Almost all of them had an undergraduate degree. So
the institutions of higher education that their kids at-
tended was a big deal in the cul-de—sacs.

Around late March’ 1999, the heat started to build.
Moms and dads in the neighborhood would set a
round—the—clock patrol, surrounding mailboxes for ac-
ceptance letters. They established security checkpoints
around their property.

They would validate drivers’ licenses of mailmen,
and they would pull guns when Ed McMahon’s mug
showed up on an envelope — all to make room for the
all-important “fat letter.”

As soon as word came back and the choice was
made, cars’ back windows were plastered with enough
stickers to make parallel parking dangerous. College
ﬂags were raised ceremoniously on the front porch
with the whole family pledging allegiance to the re-
public of My—kid—

$°eS"°‘UVa' SOIAPPLIEDTOSIX
lstan.

Kids were SCHOOLS. MY IDEA WAs THAT

showing up to
school in future
alma mater gear,
slapping each
other high-fives
because they

TIONs ALL OVER THE sTATE,
I’D END UP SOMEWHERE
GOOD. THEN THE PAPER-

‘ didn’t have to settle for their safety school.

I was excited about getting out of high school,
too. But I felt the whole college thing would just drop
into my lap. I had a pretty laissez—faire attitude
about the whole thing. My grades were marginal. My
SATs were skewed towards verbal, and my extracur-
ricular activities included: academic team co—captain
and lacrosse announcer.

Other than the year I spent as an exchange stu-
dent on a reindeer farm in northern Finland, nothing
really popped off the page. Any school that would
take me would be all right with me.

So I applied to
six schools. My idea
was that if I shot-
gunned applica-
tions all over the
state, I’d end up
somewhere good.
Then came the pa-
p e r w 0 r k .

Mary Wash-
ington College was .
the first one to go out. (I liked that one because the
application was easy to fill out). Virginia was next. I

I NEVER THOUGHT I
WOULD HAVE TO GO TO
VMI, WHAT WITH MY WIT
AND WISDOM CIRCULATING
IN THE HIGHEST ACADEMIC
CIRCLES OF THE COMMON-
WEALTH.

hated that one. The fact that you had to send away for -

the second part of their application struck me as irritat-
ing and pretentious (that, and their crappy form’s rnis—
sion in life was to get smudged).

By the third one, the College of William and Mary,
I was getting cocky. My essay: “William and Mary
was founded on pirate booty, and I like pirates.” The
other forms trickled out and the last one to go in was
VMI. I sent one out to VMI at the request of my father,
an alumnus.

I never thought I would have to go to VMI, what
with my wit and wisdom circulating in the highest aca-
demic circles of the Commonwealth.

That’s when my thin letters started coming back.
UVA turned me down ﬂat. Mary Washington and Wil-
liam and Mary were kind enough to wait—list me. Vir-
ginia Tech wanted me to wait until second semester in
January — and on it went.

At the end I was left with two green lights: Huntingdon,
a tiny liberal arts school in Montgomery, Ala., and VMI.

I wasn’t too keen on the idea of the Alabama
school. It was the only one I had visited on my hunt,
and the people I met in the student body just smiled
too much. (Not that I have anything against friendli-
ness. They were nice guys, but I felt I was way outside
of the ice cream social demographic). That left me with
community college or VMI.

As I waited out schools that put me on hold, the
idea of military school started to grow on me.

“It might not be so bad,” I thought. “I mean, my
dad had some crazy stories from the place. Like the
one time he and a buddy dumped a bucket of poop on
this other guys head [see issue No. XX].”

That, and all the kids from high school were going to a
lot of the same places. I wanted something different I wasn’t
drawn to the idea of tradition or how proud my parents
would be. The more I mulled it over the more it made sense.
I sent in my conﬁrmation letter two weeks later.

It did make my parents happy, I think. I’m glad
they had the restraint not to buy the oversized golf
umbrella right away.

Reach Sam LaGrone at lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu.

Join us!

W&Life is looking for new writers

coursenm@wlu.edu
guyc@wlu.edu

‘IF I SHOT—GUNNED APPLICA— _

 

 

  

,1, PAGE 6

‘(:4 iii’-ii

W

 

 

¥ ‘Come dance with the dragon’: past photos and

Fancy Dress 2002
theme released to campus

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
w&nEE EDITOR

 With only two weeks until this

year’s Fancy Dress Ball,
" Washington and Lee students have
f entered the frenzied search for
" dates, formal wear, plans, and more.

For most of us, FD will be one
"memorable weekend, but for the
/7 members of the Steering Committee,
FD has been a yearlong
commitment.

They have been hard at work,
planning every detail, in order to
4 create a magical night for the rest
of the student body. This year’s
theme, “Come dance with the
* dragon,” the Chinese Imperial Ball,
' is one with historical ties. The 1921
and 1985 balls had a Chinese theme.
One of this ‘year’s chairs, Valerie
5 Bruneau has answered a few
questions about this year’s
upcoming ball and why it should
’ be one of the best thus far.

r

How did you come up with this
' year’s theme?
The committee narrows down
’the choices to the best few
‘options, and then committee
members do presentations on
5those to show choices for
“decorations, memorabilia,
publicity and entertainment. Then
we vote to decide on the final
theme.

How will this year ’s FD be
different from past years?
We are going for more of a total

atmosphere this year. Instead of"

building a bunch of big objects to
.be spaced out on the ﬂoor, we are
focusing on two huge structures,
- thanks to construction chair Glenn
Singleton, and then using the
‘ceiling for a majority of the
decorations. We want the gym to
‘have an overall feeling to it, as if
you were in thegmiddle of an actual
Chinese New Year celebration Zan

HELEN HUGHES from page,5

Freshmen and ﬁrst-year law representatives will be

chosen next year.

“We have had a number of women serve on the EC
over the years,” Schroer—Lamont said. “We just never
seem to get more than three or four and that is not balanced

enough to give women a voice.”

Both Schroer—Lamont and Hughes encourage
more women to become involved with campus
activities. Hughes hopes her election will inspire
other W&L women to seek leadership roles around

campus.

Schroer—Lamont thinks both men and women should
encourage and help women build greater prominence in

leadership positions on campus.

“Women need to see inclusive language on the
forms put out by the EC. Women need to be encouraged
by their professors and advisors to run. Men students
need to encourage their women friends and girlfriends
to run. Women need to be supported more consistently
by their women friends and classmates. Women must

vote! ! l”

Meanwhile, Hughes looks forward to a productive

year as EC secretary.

“I feel like I have an obligation to my gender, but also
I have obligation to all the students and to the school,”
she said. “To the extent that I do a good job, I hope it will

reﬂect well on all of them.”

Ellison and Kelli Carpenter have

done an amazing job as decorations

chairs to make everything tie.
together. Look for lots of color and

lighting effects.

What sort of turnout are you
expecting?

We had a great turnout last
year, and we hope to improve upon
it this year. We would especially
love to see more faculty and staff
participation. ‘

Have you worked on the committee
in past years?
For the past three years.

Will the next few weeks be very busy
for the committee? ‘
Definitely. We have contract
workers helping us out as well to
make sure everything gets done.

How do you feel, knowing that
this is you last FD?

I am excited...this committee is
extremely creative and we are
doing a lot of things differently. I
think this year will stand out in
terms of decorations and
memorabilia especially, so seniors
will have a very memorable FD to
end on.

What kinds of music will the bands
be performing?

The Tyrone Smith Revue is an
upbeat Motown/funk band; they
will play in the big gym. Big Ray
and the Cool Cats, a 10-piece
swing band, will play in the small

What do you, personally like most
about FD?

It’s a great opportunity for the
whole school to get together, faculty
and staff included. FD is a unique
tradition in that way. It sort of
symbolizes W&L culture...everyone
is dressed up and in a celebratory
mood.

For more information, feel
free to visit http://
fancydress.wlu.edu, the official
website of the ball.

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

I MOND.-\ggY, MARCH ii, T2/Q02?

current news  

V

AIL PHOTOS COURTESY or ‘COME CHEER FOR
W.isHtNGioN AND LEE’ FXCEPT (ENlE{Pl~lOlU.
MEG FERRARA AND MARY GUY / 772eRing-tum Phi"

Write for the Phi

phi @wlu.edu ,

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
     

#1 Spring Break
' Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica,
Bahamas, & Florida.

Best Parties,
Best Hotels, Best Prices!

Group Discounts, Group
organizers travel free!

Space is limited! Hurry
up & Book Now!
1-800-234-7007

 

  

Celtic       _ 
Co n nectio n
Wishes you a Happy
St. Patrick’s Day!

Looking for a tasteful way to celebrate
‘ _St. Patrick’s Day?

Check out our ladies’ jewelry and selection of
men’s Irlsh ties—or try our delicious Irish foods.
Formal is quickly approaching!
if you want to wear something a bit more
distinctive this year, why not a tartan bow tie &
cummerbund, or a taran sash for ladies?
Order yours now!

Daily 10AM-5:30PM

19 W. Nelson St. ,. L
Lexington, VA 24450 ‘ , A ,

1‘-377-cEL11c-2
www.oelticconnex.com
www.irishmealsbymeail.com

   
  

  
   
 
 
  
 

  

540-464-6545

 

  t 9  !ayMarc i1  

 

 
 

 

   

Mom, MARCH 11, 2002

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

For most of 45 minutes on Saturday, the sixth-ranked
Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team kept pace with
visiting Gettysburg.

But the Bullets (3-0) justiﬁed their No. 2 Division IH
ranking by scoring four straight goals for a 10-7 win at
Wilson Field.

“For a young team, you’ve got to be excited for the fact
that they were competing for as long as they were,” said
W&L coach Mike Cerino, whose team fell to 2-2.

Sophomore Matt Fink had ‘two goals and an assist,
while senior Andrew Barnett added a pair of goals. Fresh-
man Gavin Molinelli had a trio of assists for W&L.

For Gettysburg, senior Ric Bremer and sophomore Jake
Van Nostrand each recorded three goals, and Van Nostrand
added two assists. Sophomore Nick Purkat had two goals
and two assists for the Bullets.

“It’s a great group of attackmen they’ve got in there,”
Cerino said of the Bullets. “One of the tough things they
do is a nice job of picking their spots and when they want
to move the ball at people. We held pretty well, but those
are some top—notch players.” .

The Generals struck for an early 1-0 lead, as Fink
scored off Molinelli’s assist less than a minute into the
game. Bremer’s ﬁrst tally at 9:28, assisted by Purkat, tied
the score.

Junior Rob Brown gave the Generals a 2-1 lead two
minutes later off an assist from senior John Moore. But
Bremer scored at 6:32, assisted by Van Nostrand, for an-
other tie.

Gettysburg would take its first lead of the game at 2:26
when senior Chris Baran assisted classmate Wes Cadman’s

Men’s lacrosse bitten by

No. 2 Gettysburg scores 4 straight goals to b

. THE RlN(.§v~T'l.lfhl‘ Piil

  

]EREMYFRANl<l1N
SPORISEDIIOR

Bullets in

4th quarter

reak a 6-6 tie, shoots down No. 5 Washington and Lee in a non-conference contest on Saturday at Wilson Field

W eR1r1g—tz1m

IMMEDIATE OFFENSE: Freshman Gavin Molinelli moves the ball against Gettysburg on Saturday on \X/ilson Field. Molinelli
ﬁnished with three assists, but a four-goal charge by the Bullets gave them a 10-7 win.

Van Nostrand’s tally at the 10:17 mark of the second
quarter gave the Bullets a 4-2 lead, butgoals by Fink and
sophomore Mike McNamara drew W&L even at 4-4 be-

The Generals regained the lead at 11:41 of the third, as
Barnett scored off a Molinelli assist. Purkat scored two
straight goals at 7:49 and 3:55 to put the Bullets back on

 

W&L sophomore Dustin Martin recorded an unas-
sisted goal just 35 seconds after the second Purkat score
to make it 6-6.

But goals by Van N ostrand with 21 seconds left in the
third quarter and with 9:1 1 remaining in the game gave the
Bullets another two—goal lead. Bremer and Baran extended
the lead to an insurmountable 10-6 margin.

“We tightened up a little bit when the score was 8-6,”
Cerino said. “We tightened and tried to press instead of

I staying with our game plan and controlling the tempo of

the game. A two—goal lead turned into a four-goal lead
pretty quick.”

Fink believed that the Generals had several missed
chances to either extend a lead or pull back into the game.

“We had opportunities that we didn’t capitalize on
where we could have gone up a couple of goals,” he said.
“Mentally, we kind of fell apart and started throwing the
ball away. We’ve got to step it up when we get in tough
games like this.”

Despite the 17 goals scored, both goalkeepers played
impressively. Gettysburg junior Tim McGinnis made 16
saves, while W&L sophomore Ansel Sanders recorded 13.

“The play of Ansel Sanders was outstanding,” Cerino
said. “He was just dynamic today. He was all over the ﬁeld

making great plays. I really can’t say enough about his '

character and his intensity out there.”

The Generals get little reprieve from their schedule, as
they face 18th—ranked Franklin & Marshall at Loyola-
Blakeﬁeld on Saturday. The Diplomats are the last team
W&L will face before opening Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference play against 12th-ranked Roanoke on March 23.

“That’s a huge game because'we’re coming off two hard
losses,” Fink said. “We were in the game, and it got away
from us against the No. 2 team and the No. 5 team (Wash-

} +

goal for a 3-2 advantage.

BY DAVE CROWELL
5, ASSISTANT sporrs EDITOR

Completely dominating.

That is one way to define the
Washington and Lee women’s la-

? crosse team’s 22-0 drubbing of Old
Dominion Athletic Conference foe

I Guilford on Saturday afternoon at the
Liberty Hall ﬁelds.

The 13th—ranked Generals followed
up a difﬁcult 9-5 loss to St. Mary’s of
Maryland on March 2 by jumping out

»,~ to a 16-0 halftime lead on the Quakers
and never looking back.

The W&L midﬁeld set the tone for

A the game with its physical style of play
and ability to collect ground balls.
The Generals, starting with freshmen

1 Kristen Brown and Erin Rathbone,
also won a majority of the faceoffs.

The play at midﬁeld kept the ball in
the Guilford zone nearly the entire day,
giving goalkeeper Joanna Perini an easy

15‘ day as she didn’t face a shot on goal.

“It’s always good when the offen-
sive unit is playing tough on defense,
not giving anything up and prevent-
ing chances to clear,” W&L coach Jan

1‘ Hathorn said. “They played very
strong today.”

* When the Quakers could muster
the ball past midﬁeld, junior Sarah

V .Janowitz and sophomore Sarah

F Jurkowsky forced quick turnovers.

The focus of the day, however,

‘I was on the Generals’ proﬁcient attack.

Junior Leslie Bogart led W&L out
of the gates, assisting on the first

V three goals. Bogart collected ﬁve as-
sists on the day as she moved within

yr three assists of the W&L career mark.
She also added a goal in the ﬁrst half.

A “Leslie’s strength is feeding the

 “Generals

fore halftime.

 

ALL OFFENSE FOR W&L: Sophomore Tate Hoeffel looks for
an open teammate in Washington and Lee’s 22-0 drubbing had a goal and three assists against the Quakers.

ball inside. She has great vision on
the field and is one of the best
passers we have,” Hathorn said. ,

Bogart’s career statistics against
Guilford are mind—boggling: 10 goals
and 13 assists in four games.

The sophomore tandem of Lee
Wheeler and Kelly Taffe also contin-
ued to decimate opposing defenses
on Saturday, with Wheeler scoring
four goals and Taffe, who leads the
Generals with 13 points this season,
adding three tallies and two assists.

On one of her goals, Taffe beauti-
fully sliced between at least four
Quaker defenders for a ﬁrst-half score.

Senior captains Emily Owens and

han Gilford out to dy

Courtenay Fisher, junior Laura Wilson
and Rathbone each added two ‘goals.
Sophomore midﬁelder Tate Hoeffel
contributed a goal and three assists.

Despite the impressive win,
Hathorn still sees areas where im-
provement is necessary, especially
heading into a week where W&L faces
non—conference opponents Nazareth
and nationally-ranked Franklin &
Marshall, 21 team that has defeated the
Generals the past three seasons.

A visit from Mary Washington, the
team that ended W&L’s season last
year, also looms ahead.

“We have a tendency sometimes
to lose some of our focus and inten-

top 6-5.

sity when we get ahead. The alertness
was not always there (on Saturday),”
she said.

In addition, Hathorn believes the
Generals became sloppy with their
ball-handling and passing during the
victory over Guilford.

The pressure-packed atmosphere
of playing national contenders, how-
ever, should hopefully raise W&L’s
game to another level.

“I have no worry that the intensity
will be there. It won’t be difﬁcult for
us to get excited,” Hathorn said. “This
team has enormous pride and they
feel, being in the Top 20, that they
need to prove themselves.”

   

Mun’ Gm’/771eR1}1g-mm Phi
of Guilford on Saturday at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds. Hoeffel

ington). We’re pissed off, and we’ve got to get a win.”

W&L golf, men’s tennis
win at Hampden-Sydney

FROM STAFF REPORTS

AMHERST—The Washington
and Lee golf team won the first Old
Dominion Athletic Conference event
of the 2002 season on Monday, beat-
ing the host team in the Hampden-
Sydney/ODAC Invitational at the
Winton Country Club.

The Generals shot a [320 in the
one—day event, while the Tigers
finished 12 strokes behind at 332.

Junior Chip Campbell was the
medallist of the invitational,
shooting a 76. Freshman Carlos
Spaht contributed a 78 for W&L,
followed by freshman Pierce
Mayson at 81.

Junior Chuck Green and freshman
Matt Yohe each shot an 85, tying for
fourth on the Generals. Four play-
ers’ scores are factored into the team
scoring for ODAC events.

W&L returns to action today and
tomorrow with the Ferrum Invita-
tional at the Water’s Edge Country
Club in Smith Mountain Lake.

Men’s tennis routs ligers

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY—The
men’s tennis team improved to 2-0 in
the ODAC, 4-1 overall, with a 7-0 win
at Hampden-Sydney on Wednesday.

The Generals won all six singles
matches and the trio of doubles
matches in defeating the Tigers.

Freshman Paul McClure beat
John Moss at No. 1 singles, while
senior Rhys James stopped Durrell
Carothers at No. 2. Sophomores

Austin Kim and K.C. Schaefer won
at the third and fourth-seed singles.

Senior Rob Moynihan and
sophomore Seth Martin were victo-
rious in their matches at No. 5 and
No. 6 singles.

In doubles competition, James and
Moynihan, McClure and Schaefer,
and Kim and M’ in defeated their
Harnpden—Sydney opponents.

The Generals have a pair of dual
matches on Saturday, hosting ODAC
foe Bridgewater at 10 a.m. and non-
conference opponent Salisbury
State at 2 p.m.

Generals drop Hollins

ROANOKE——The women’s ten-
nis team continued its dominance
of the ODAC by opening the sea-
son with .a 9-0 win at Hollins on
Wednesday.

Freshman Lindsay Hagerman
won her match at No. 1 singles, fol-
lowed by wins by sophomore Eliza-
beth Law and junior Laura Bruno at
second and third singles.

Seniors Manning Willard and Sallie
Gray Strang won their matches at No.
4 and No. 5 singles, respectively, while
freshman Elizabeth McCracken
rounded out the singles competition
with a win at the sixth slot.

The teams of Bruno and Strang,
Hagerman and VV11lard, and Law and
McCracken won the three doubles
matches handily.

W&L hosts two ODAC opponents
on Friday, battling Bridgewater at 3 :30
p.m. and Emory & Henry at 6 p.m.

: ’f

 

Cover Washington and Lee athletics
 for THE RlNG—TUM PHI.

 I Oppor:unities areavailable to
a cover baseball, golf, lacrosse,
tennis and track.

N o experience is necessary.

Contact Jeremy Franklin at x4060 or franklinj @wlu.edu.

THE RING-TUM PHI

Wishes the student body a happy St. Patrick’s
Day and encourages all eligible
men to “get on the ball” and ask that

Special Someone to the

SOCIAL EVENT OF THE S0 UTH

(FANCY DRESS)

  Time’s running out. . .

item, MARCH 11, 2002,

,1i~.,.p
GENERALS ROUT:]unior center ﬁelder Bobby Littlehale was 3-
for-5 with a two-run homer in \X/&L’s 16-2 win over Merchant
Marine Academy at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on Monday.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDlTOR

The Washington and Lee baseball team used its of-
fense to run all over Merchant Marine Academy and Villa
Julie at home this week, then turned to pitching and de-
fense in a doubleheader sweep of Hampden-Sydney on
the road Saturday.

&L sweeps Hampden-S

The Generals’ four- game winning streak upped their record
to 8-4 on the season, and the two wins over the Tigers gave
them a 3-1 record in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

 you win on the road, it’s good,” W&L coach Jeﬂ“
Stickley said of the Hampden-Sydney sweep. “In the ODAC,
you’re going to split sortie, and you get a sweep when you can.”

W&L started out the week on Monday with a 16-2 win
over the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Cap’n Dick Smith
Field. Senior third baseman Matt Kozora broke the school
record for career hits by going 3-for-5 with a pair of RBI.

Junior first baseman Brian Gladysz was 4-for-4 at the
plate, driving in ﬁve and scoring four runs. Junior center
ﬁelder Bobby Littlehale hit 3-for-5 with a two—run home run.

Sophomore Bryan Mulhem pitched a seven-inning
complete game, giving up ﬁve hits and striking out four.

The Generals continued their offensive onslaught
against Villa Julie on Thursday, posting 18 hits in a 13-10
win. W&L torched the Mustangs for eight runs in the first
inning, including two—run doubles by sophomore left ﬁelder
Dan Kagey and sophomore second baseman Austin Allain.

“We were able to jump on them immediately,” said jun-
ior shortstop Michael Hanson, who doubled to lead off
the first and scored. “It’s big when you start out like that
because -it gives the pitcher a cushion, and their team
begins to press a little bit.”

“With an RBI single from senior catcher Todd Gosselirik
and a two-run base hit by Kagey, the Generals pushed their
lead to 12-4 in the bottom of the sixth. Villa Julie scored twice
in the top half of the seventh to cut the advantage to 12-6.

Trailing 13-6 entering the ninth, the Mustangs smacked
ﬁve singles and scored four runs before Hanson, pitching
his second inning of relief, retired the side.

“College baseball’s like this all the time. It’s just a
struggle,” Stickley» said. “Teams swing the aluminum bats,
and you’ve just got to hold, to keep scoring.”

Sophomore Mike Wert (1-2) earned the win, allowing three
earned runs on and striking out six in six innings of work.

‘i"'--  ‘J-
's».rNi. 51$}

   

V 1l_..ii.§L-.321N(;'_l’(}?~{ ‘

1iFE

 ﬁiﬁﬁﬁ  1*  * 4! Bﬁlﬁi
*€A *%t'ROM!ﬁ)Cm%¢ﬁ.ﬂEWA5
9WW'FW ﬂﬁEﬂ¥f£ ‘4ﬂ-‘W1

 
     

BACK IN TIME: Sophomore left ﬁelder Dan Kagey ducks back to first base under the tag of Villa Julie first baseman Andy '1
\X/elling. Kagey was 3-for-5 with four runs batted in as the Generals beat the Mustangs 13-10 on Thursday.

“We’re just trying to get Mike some work and let him
go,” Stickley said. “His conﬁdence will come from the fact
that he made better pitches and got out of j arns. He battled,
he got out of some tough ones, and that was good for him.”

W&L returned to ODAC action with the two—game
sweep of Harnpden—Sydney on Saturday.

Sophomore Peter Dean improved to 3-0 in Game 1 of
the doubleheader, giving up one run on four hits in five
innings of work. Hanson earned his ﬁrst save of the sea-
son in a two-inning relief stint. ,

The game remained scoreless until the ﬁfth inning, when
the Generals put three runs on the board. After the Tigers
scored once each in the bottom of the fifth and sixth in-
nings, W&L put the game out of reach with a three-run
seventh, including a two—run, two-out double by Littlehale.

The second game was even more of a pitcher’s duel, with

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

l\'lFKyFH{lL\K1777c’Rﬁ7g-{Um P121’

righthander evened up his record at 2-2 by going six innings,
giving up one run on three hits and recording ﬁve strikeouts.

Littlehale and Kozora provided the offense in a two-
run ﬁfth inning, with each driving in a run. Hanson again

recorded a save, retiring the Tigers in order in the bottom *1

of the seventh.

Stickley hopes that Hanson can continue to be effec-
tive in the closer’s role, and that W&L won’t need him to
start games down the stretch.

“All through the season, if you can hold him out of the ’\

starting role and keep him in that relief position, you know

you’ve got somebody in there to get some guys out,” the ‘‘

skipper said. “Your strategy changes when you have a
closer, and that’s something we haven’t had in recent years.”
W&L returns to the diamond on Tuesday with a non- '

conference game against regional power Mary Washing-1*

Kagey walking away with the win. The sophomore ton at3p.m.
SCOREBOARD i
. 77
I .
SATURDAY s BASEBALL Box Scones W&L SCHEDULE. MARCH 11-17
‘ I
Firs‘ Game Tuesday’ March 12 Women s Lacrosse
WASHINGTON AND LEE HAMPDEN-SYDNEY Baseball W&L at Franklin 81 Marshall, 11 am. 4
ab r h bi ab r h bi Ma washm ton at W&L 3 m Baseball
Hanson ss/p 4 1 1 1 Poirierli 4 O 0 0 _ iy 9 ’ p‘ ' Rando1ph.Macon atwg,|_(D1-1),
Littlehale cl 4 0 1 2 Duncan 1b 4 0 2 0 12 p‘_m_
Kozora 3b 3 0 1 O Herndon ss 3 O 1 0 Friday, March 15 Mews Lacrosse
Mulhern rt 3 1 1 0 LaF|ame dh 2 0 0 0 women»s Tennis ,
Gjadysz 1b 3 1 1 1 Brock C 3' 1 1 0 B  t t    VS. Franklin 81 Marshall (at 1
Gosselink c 3 1 1 1 Szymanski rt 2 1 1 o E" 99“: E’ ii ‘W&L Sim‘ Loyola-Blakefield). 1 pm-
Kagey lf 1 1 O 0 Eanes 2b 2 0 0 0 iii°iV eiiiy a 1 pm 4--
Droppers dh 2 0 0 0 Gronewald 3b 3 0 O 0 Sunday, March 17
/Ltllztiin 2;/)ss, 3 (1) 8 (1) Welch ci 2 0 1 0 sagurday, March 15 women,s Tennis
 25 6 6 6 25 2 6 0 Men’s and Women’s Track Guiliord at W&L, 10 a.m. 4
Washington and Lee 000 030 3 — 6 W&L iiiviiaiioiiai‘ TBA W&i'ai Viigiiiia Tech” i pin"
Hampden.sydney 000 011 0 _. 2 Men’s Tennis Baseball

E —— Hanson, Vaughan. DP —- Washington and Lee 1. LOB — Washington and
Lee 2, Hampden-Sydney 7. 2B — Littlehale, Mulhem, Gosselink, Duncan,
Szymanski. SB —- LaFlame, Szymanski, Eanes. CS — Eanes. SF — Allain.

IP H R ERBBSO
Washington and Lee
DeanW,3-0 5 4 1 1 3 3
HansonS,1 2 2 1 1 2 3

Hampden-Sydney
VaughanL,1-2 61-3 4 '4 3 2 2
Fry 2-3 2 2 2 1 0
T—2:00.A—75.

Second Game

WASHINGTON AND LEE HAMPDEN-SYDNEY

ab r h bi ab r h bi
Hanson ss/p 4 0 1 0 Gregory of 3 0 2 O
Littlehale cf 4 0 1 0 Duncan 1b 2 0 0 0
Kozora 3b 3 0 3 1 Herndon ss 2 0 O 0
Mulhern c 4 0 0 0 LaF|ame dh 2 1 0 0
Giadysz 1b 4 0 0 0 Brock c 3 0 1 0
Gosselink rt 3 0 1 0 Syzmanski rt 2 0 0 0
Kagey p/2b 3 0 1 0 Eanes 2b 2 0 0 1
Sibley if 3 1 2 0 Gronewald 3b 2 0 0 0
Allain 2b/ss 3 1 2 0 Ellithorpe If 2 0 0 0
Totals 31 2 10 2 20 1 3 1
Washington and Lee 000 020 0 ~ 2
Hampden-Sydney 010 000 O -1

E — Herndon 2. DP — Washington and Lee 2, Hampden-Sydney 1.
LOB — Washington and Lee 9, Hampden-Sydney 3. SH — Duncan.
SF — Kozora, Eanes.

IP H R ER BB SO
Washington and Lee

Kagey W, 2-2 6 3 1 1 3 5
HansonS,2 1 0 0 0 0 0
Hampden-Sydney

Meadows L, 1-2 7 10 2 2 O 2
PB - Mulhern.

T — 2:00. A ~ 55.

   

Brldgewater at W&L, 10 a.m.

Salisbury State at W&L, 2 p.m. 12 P-m-

TENNIS Box SCORES

, .
Men s Tennis 7

Washington and Lee 7, Hampden-Sydney 0

Singles

1. Paul McClure (W&L) d. John Moss (HSC), 2-6, 6-4, 6-1
2. Rhys James (W&L) d. Durrell Carothers (HSC), 6-3, 6-1
3. Austin Kim (W&L) d. Chris Duquette (HSC), 6-2, 6-4

4. K.C. Schaeler (W&L) d. Rob Light (HSC), 6-3, 6-2

5. Bob Moynihan (W&L) (1. Tom Hogge (HSC), 6-1, 6-1

6. Seth Martin (W&L) d. Cooper Wilson (HSC), 6-1, 6-3

Doubles ,

1. James/Moynihan (W&L) d. Moss/Duquette (HSC), 9-8 (7-2)
2. McClure/Schaeter (W&L) d. Hogge’/Carothers (HSC), 8-2

3. Kim/Martin (W&L) d. Light/Wilson (HSC),. 8-2

Women's Tennis 7

Washington and Lee 9, Hollins 0

Singles '

1. Lindsay Hagerman (W&L) d. Alice Moss (Hollins), 6-3, 6-0
. Elizabeth Law (W&L) d. Anne Stephenson (Hollins), 6-2, 6-1

. Manning Willard (W&L) d. Brea Strager (Hollins), 6-4, 6-0
. Sallie Gray Strang (W&L) d. Katherine Howard (Hollins), 6-0, 6-3

0501-I>0>l'\>

Doubles

1. Bruno/Strang (W&L) d. Stephenson/Moss (Hollins), 8-4 «Q

2. Hagerman/Willard (W&L) d. Howard/Strager (Hollins), 8-1
3. Law/McCracken (W&L) d. Schnare/Penry (Hollins), 8-2

Serious;

  D=E:§(:o1m 1

-t»1r.co:.rnciitra1ael.cnmr
1-SGDQCUNCIL

   
 

  

West Virginia Tech at W&L (DH), 1

. Laura Bruno (W&L) d. Cayce Schnare (Hollins), 3-6, 6-1 (7-5) I‘

. Elizabeth McCracken (W&L) d. Kendra Penry (Hollins), 6-0, 6-1 .4

