-9 %'r~”6»755’

 p RIvI“"IP
V; Wt INsii)E ‘
VA’): 

SPECIAL V..-\.{.I?.l\"I‘INl?.’S
DAY ISSUE. T112:
RING-rm: PHI wru.
Rl%'S1L='l\'1E€ l’(iB1l('.'A’£‘I()l\"
MARC:-r 4.

 

£’.’sift‘?_Ii.7I:Ji-I. ‘F .oi_C1€‘ OF W2*S.HlN<;'t‘t‘>N Arm Let. U :<:v:aas:'i‘Y Sim: 1897 C13 0N1’.

Rl1ii“T€‘}"3“l“

  

HM72‘l’H'l.\‘h‘I.l.%.£'l)t§

 

 PH1

 
 

N3“

I = ’ r‘-5-'«:  ..;.«.+-..-."WI.~'i’i)“i.*§‘3ii”‘ W
FEB l 2 2D02.PrN1<:>Ns 3
\7(/’&l.m-?. 5

SPORTS 6
S<j:H13r)t_ir.r: 6
24,-’? 2

‘v'<>L::5il; (LIV, No. 

ltx1M;zt'>N. \"rR<;t\n 24-I50

:\l0Nl)AY. l?'r.sr:r:.-sI<Y' 11, 2002

AooMMoN PURPOSE. As rushing freshmen, current seniors led discussion groups at Saturdays Something ofValue seminar.

Council.

Cedarholm.

FIIEPHUID

ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Sorority women will collectively tackle campus
issues of drugs, eating disorders, and sexual
activitiy after participating in this weekend’s
“Something of Value” conference by Panhellenic

Representatives from each of Washington and
Lee’s ﬁve sorority chapters gathered Saturday to
participate in risk-management sessions and
discussions to identify and develop plans of action
against risk—taking behaviors in a national
Panhellenic Council seminar.

“Something of Value...educate(s) sorority
women about risky behaviors, such as drinking and
drugs, and how those behaviors can negatively af-
fect a sorority,” said Panhellenic president Katie

The conference’s biggest impact “will be that
now all the women will realize that they are talking
about the same things,” Teresa Glassman, W&L
Panhellenic advisor and director of student activities
said. “They now know that they have a place to
come together and where they can go from here.”

Over 70 sorority leaders attended the
conference, which began with a mock trial. National
sorority representatives, chapter advisors and
national Panhellenic facilitators also attended.

Nancy Campbell, an attorney from Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, led the mock trial along with W&L
Panhellenic officers. The trial, designed to reflect
W&L issues, covered an underage binge drinking/
hazing case. Audience members acted as a jury in
determining responsibility in an alcohol-related injury.

After the participants watched the trial and had
lunch with their respective national chapter advisors,

Sororities plan action
against risky behaviors

National program comes to W&L, challenges Greek women
BYKATIE_].HOWELL

they formed five breakout groups for intense
discussions about campus risk-taking behaviors.
~ In these groups, the women collectively identified
the four greatest risky behaviors in the W&L
community: eating disorders, alcoholism, drugs
(specifically cocaine) and sex-related issues,
including sexually—transmitted diseases and rape.

After identifying these issues, the women
then discussed plans of action to improve these
situations on campus.

National Panhellenic facilitator Gail Owen
was pleased with W&L’s productivity in
Saturday’s meeting.

“The answer is in your hands,” Owen said.

The national chapter and Panhellenic
representatives encouraged participants to
continue working together to make a
difference on the W&L campus. Panhellenic
officers and the national representatives
stayed afterward to discuss the plans of action
against these issues.‘

National facilitators said that most
campuses work for about six months to a year
to address their risky behaviors. Glassman
and the Panhellenic officers believe that
W&L sorority women can make a difference
as well.

“This program is something that we had seen
previously and heard talked about,” Glassman
said. “Each sorority had to approve the program
before national Panhellenic would even consider
coming here. I believe that shows we want to
make a difference.”

The participants appreciated the program as
well.

“It was an open, frank discussion,” one said.
“It was wonderful.”

Poverty program selects 29 W&L summer interns

.‘,~.-u~—:'n...

BY Pmzn QUACKENBUSH
snrr wmrrr

The Shepherd Program on Poverty and Human Capa-
bility has selected this year’s participants in its summer
program. Twenty—nine students from W&L willjoin a yet-
to-be-determined number of students from Berea, Spelman
and Morehouse Colleges to serve people suffering from
poverty in America and around the world.

The Shepherd A1liance’s participants will help allevi-
ate poverty through a variety of means, said - Harlan
Beckley, the program’s director.

“Students will be serving for eight weeks in agencies
that  work in areas of financing small business,
healthcare, social service, community organizing, law, edu-
cation, and so forth,” Beckley said.

Six of the W&L students will participate in the Amigos
de las Américas program, where they will travel to a Latin
American country and promote public health, education

 

and community involvement.

Past program participants strongly feel that spend-
ing time serving communities provides not only to those
that need help, but also give a sense of self—worth and

confidence.

“The Shepherd Program has shaped
my life,” senior Stacy McLoughlin
said. Others share similar sentiments.

“The classes and internship have
further focused much of my time and

_ academic coursework on issues of in-
equality and injustice - two wrongs in
our culture that I have tried to devote
much of my time and energy to un-
derstanding,” senior Claiborne Tay-

n ECL

lor said.

The students selected to participate in the program
were chosen for their potential to serve others and get
something out of it at the same time. Senior Pete Cook,

who assisted in the selection process, explained, “We
look for people who have demonstrated an interest in
social issues, who volunteer, or want to get more in-
volved in the community.”

V The program searches for stu-
dents enthusiastic about making
changes in the lives of others. “It is
a common misconception that the
Shepherd program only selects stu-
dents involved in service and with
strictly liberal beliefs,” Taylor said.
“On the contrary, we look for stu-
dents who want more out of their
college and educational experience
and who are ready to take this

AYLOR

plunge with open minds and enthusiasm.”

Beckley said he enjoys working with students excited
about assisting others. “The thrill of working with students
in the Shepherd Program stems from watching students

    

learning through combining rigorous classroom study with
learning through first—hand experience trying to alleviate
poverty,” Beckley said.

Cook also believes that students can learn more from
the program than from ordinary summer jobs. “Anyone
can go work in an ofﬁce for the summer, but this is an
opportunity to gain great experience, while helping others
at the same time,” he said.

It is expected that each student will gain much
through the program by visiting people in situations far
more dire than anything they have previously experi-
enced. Taylor hoped that students would be better able
to evaluate their own lives. “Living in a new or unfamil-
iar area offers students the chance to venture forth past
their comfort levels and get a taste of the real world,”
Taylor explained. Beckley had his own hopes for stu-
dents. “I expect this summer’s participants to learn more
about communities and people they have not encoun-
tered previously,” he said.

Alcohol speaker urges courage to care

Recovered alcoholic believes W&L students can /earn from her college experiences

Mr(;Frruwn/Iheking-tumPhz'
Hun~:’s1oS1sm1 CAROLYN. Cornelisonused
aneodotesandjol<estoexpr'e$hdideasabout
high-riskalcoholabuse.

BY Kim}. HOWELL
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Washington and Lee University has
twice the national average of college stu-
dents with alcohol problems, said Carolyn
Comelison, who spoke at Lee Chapel last

' Tuesday.

Comelison, a national alcohol speaker,
shared personal ancedotes to express her
message, finding “The Courage to Care.”

Her program exposed the dangers of high-
risk drinking, and how to help other people
with this problem.

“Courage to Care” focused on help-
ing teammates or Greek brothers or sisters
with alcohol problems.

“The majority of us are in a situa-
tion where we can help people,”
Comelison said.

LIFE, the Panhellenic Council, the
Intrafratemity Council and the Office of
Health Education sponsored Comelison’s
speech. University Health Educator Janis
Kaufman saw Comelison speak to athletes

“I thought her presentation was ef-
fective because she combined humor with
important life stories,” sophomore Kara
Coen said. “Her discussion was sober-
ing.”

Cornelison was an athlete and so-
rority member as a college student, and
directed her talk toward these
groups. She challenged the audience to
help the members of their fraternities,
sororities and sports teams with alco-
hol problems.

“We need to tell people that we
care about when we are worried about

at the University of them,” she said.
Virginia and “The difficult part
thought her speech WHO KNEW I WASAN OLYMPIC ATHLETE starts when I
would benefit leave, and it will

W&L. Kaufman,
whose office pro-
vided the financial
backing, then encouraged the other spon-
sors to ensure attendance.

“(Cornelison’s) message is the
message we’re trying to get across in
the TIPS program,” Kaufman said. “I
think she gave the students a very im-
portant message about caring for each
other and not being afraid to speak up
when they are having a problem with
alcohol.”

TIPS is the alcohol intervention ‘

program required of student bartend-
ers.

Cornelison’s talk was light-
hearted, frequently drawing laughter
from the audience of approximately 200
people.

IN THIS SPORT-DRINKING GAMES?
CAROLYN CORNELISON

make you feel un-
comfortable. You
have made com-
mitments to be brothers and sisters,
and you must follow through with
that.”

Admiting that she was “an Olympic
athlete in drinking games” and that “you
would have really liked me here at W&L—
I was fun,” Comelison threaded the main
thoughts of her speech: that “courage is
not the absence of fear, courage is taking
action in the face of fear.”

Comelison used this message along
with personal stories of her own struggle
with alcoholism to motivate students to be-
gin caring for one another.

“We don’t want to lose people,” she
said. “(Alcohol abuse) is always a pre-
ventable tragedy.”

 

VM

BY SAM LAGRONB
snrr CORRESPONDENT

AVrrginiaMilitary Institute professorwasoonvicted
IastMondayoftwooountsofsexcrirnesinvo1ving aminor.
ARockbridge County CircuitCourtoonvictedPaul
G. Pierpaoli Jr., a history professor specializing in the
Korean War, with using a computer to solicit sex with a
minor and having carnal knowledge of a child, the
Associated Press reported. .
’ Authorities accused Pierpaoli of contacting a
14-year-old teen and his
21-year-old lover, Tm Campolito, over the Intemet
and meeting them for a tryst in a trailer near Goshen,
Commonwealth’s Attomey Gordon Saunders told AP.
The teen and Campolito were caught using a
stolen computer and a credit card number, Saunders
told AP. From their arrests, police traced Pierpaoli
and issued an arrest warrant for the professor in
September. Pierpaoli denied the charges, saying the
encounter did not involve sex with a minor.

pfessor involved in kid pornography

é

I-I115 PHOTO
Vl\’II’sCAivn*Us.”Ihetypi<‘x'1lrigorousacadernicwor1d ofV"1rginiaMilitary Institutewas disruptedwhenone
ofitseducatorsbemme pornography.

“It’s obvious that these people were hooking
up for the purpose of sex, and that is what oc-
curred,” Saunders told the Richmond
Times-Dispatch. Samples of Pierpaoli’s semen were
found at the scene of the trailer, Saunders said.

After six hours of testimony Circuit Judge George
Honts III convicted Pierpaoli of both charges. Pierpaoli
was released on bond and is now in Hilton Head S.C.
He will be sentenced on May 10, according to AP.

Pierpaoli is currently suspended without pay.
Chuck Steenburgh, a VMI spokesman, declined to
comment on any further administrative action by VIVII.

Pierpaoli began work at VMI in 1998 as the
executive assistant to Superintendent Josiah
Bunting HI. He was also a part—time history pro-
fessor. Pierpaoli earned a chair in the history de-
partment and taught full time, until he was charged.

“He was honestly...not impersonal but not neces-
sanlyapp'oat:lrable,”saidDarnellGnfﬁrtajurri<)r'forwlrorn
Pierpaoli was an academic advisor and professor “He
didr1’tseemlikeaguythatwoulddosorrrethinglikethat”

 

 

  

 

:7 -it"

...r_.
5 I
. .\.;r

 

Fasting to beneﬁt chanly for hungry

This Wednesday, Feb. 13, the Nabors Service
League is sponsoring a hunger fast in support of

hungry people worldwide. According to sophomore
Lessie Calhoun, the organizer of the fast, each person

who fasts will have sponsors who donate money to
support him or her.

Said Calhoun, “Almost 1()0 people participated
last year, and we raised more than a thousand dol-
lars.”

In light of last year’s success, Calhoun is even
more optimistic for this year. She said, “One hundred
people fasting, each with ten sponsors who donate
ﬁve dollars, will add up to ﬁve thousand dollars. This
[event] has the potential to be extraordinarily suc-
cessful if people get involved”

The fast is modeled after the charitable group
OXFAM’s annualfastheldinNovember.Thernoney
raised at W&L’s fast will be donated to OXFAM,
which partners with over 3,000 local organizations
around the world Said Calhoun, “By involving local
organizations, OXFAM ensures that the aid will be
best tailored to meet local needs.”

People interestedinsigning up forthefast should
come to the Coop on Monday or Tuesday. Sign-up
sheets will be outside. Calhoun stressed that those
who will be unable to fast on Wednesday can still
participate; they simply need to let Nabors know.

Prizes will be awarded to the fast participant who
raises the most money ﬁom sponsors.

Construction on track, further

expansion planned

University oﬁicials will seekthe Board of
Trustees’ approval to move forward with long-
planned construction, renovation and expansion
projects for art and music programs, athletics and
additional classroom and ofﬁce space.

Following action by the board, which is meeting
Feb. 7-9, University Architect Tom Contos and other
Washington and Lee University oﬂicials will meet
with municipal representatives to discuss the
Ur1iversity’s plans.

Meanwhile, construction and renovation work
is going well on the John W. Elrod University Com-
mons, the journalism department’s Reid Hall and
Doremus Gymnasium’s new ﬁtness center. "These
projects remain on schedule and on budget,” Contos
said.

“Most of the rock removal and blasting at the
Commons site is over. The worst is past,” he added.

    
   

 

 
 

1.:
a::r:n=rus - F.§R&§$I:) » rsatrarrecsre - Pasmrﬁas ~ name



“The crews just ﬁnished drilling the piers, which are
embedded in the rocks to support the Commons.
They’re now preparing to install the grade beams,
which will provide additional support for the struc-
ture.

“By spring, we’ll see the steel structure going
up,” Contos said. “Construction will move very
quickly after that. It will be exciting to see the Com-
mons becoming a reality.”

The $43 million Commons-Reid Hall—Doremus
project—the largest construction effort in W&L his-
tory—is a key part of the phased building program
the University began in the 1980s to bring W&L’s
academic, athletic, student housing and meeting fa-
cilities up to par with those at other topranked liberal
arts colleges nationally.

The smaller scale art—music facility and class-
room addition projects now under consideration will
largely complete the University’s phased improve-
ment efforts, marked by the construction of the
Lenfest Center for the Perfonning Arts, the science
building addition, intramural athletic facilities, the so
rority housing complex and the fraternity renaissance,
said Lawrence W. Broomall, W&L’s treasurer and
vice president for ﬁnance.

Having the best academic programs requires
providing the best in facilities, W&L Tnrstee Philip
W. Norwood, a 1969 alumnus and Charlotte, N.C.,
developer, said at last fall’s launching of W&L’s $225
million capitalcampaign

“Great things happen in great buildings,” he
said ‘Mediocrity is not part of Washington and 

The proposals going to the board, which has
previously reviewed them in its work on W&L’s mas-
ter plan and capital campaign, are:

—arnending the University’s master plan and,
concomitantly, seeking city approval to use the 1.1-
acre Mann property adjacent to the Lenfest Center
for a new art—music building;

—hiring an architectural ﬁrm to begin site and
schematic planning for the estimated $20-24 million
art—music building;

-pursuing preliminary design and construction
planning for an estimated $5-7 million classroom and
faculty ofﬁce addition next to the commerce school;

—examir1ing ﬁeld upgrades at the old baseball
ﬁeld and VV1lson Stadium to allow soccer and football
programs to frilly use those respective sites.

Art-MusicBuilding

StuderrttraﬁicirrduPontHallisamor1gthehighest
of any building on campus, with 40 percent of W&L’s
undergraduates involved in art and music activities, fac-
ultyleaders saidatlast fall’s campaign launching.

At the same time, students contend with a dearth
of music practice rooms, instead making due with
pianos crammed in hallways, and inadequate paint-
ing and sculpture studios, which lack ventilation,
proper lighting and are plagued by leaky roofs, noted
George R. Bent, an associate professor and chair of
the art department.

.5 rtfv  
A  {A313

 

DuPont Hall. built in 1954, furtha lacks adequate
wiringtohandlethegowinguseoftechnologyinrnusic
arrdgraplricartsprograrr‘s.Everrbasicdesl<topcorrrput—
ersovertaxduPont’scapabilit'xas,forcingmiltyaritlstu—
der1tstogoelsewherejusttoreademail,saidBenL

“Ifyou look atourarts facilities andthose at
good high schools, our facilities are inadequate and
technologically dated,” said Contos. “If we want to
compete nationally while providing our students with
a broad education, the arts must have better, more
visible facilities.”

The one-acre Mann property next to the Lenfest
Center was purchased by the University two years
ago. Though other locations have been reviewed,
the Mann site is viewed as best suited for a new art-
music facility, which rnayopeninFall2005.

“We thinkputling the arts together atone site is
thebest approach,” Contos said “Our ideal is to cre-
ate an arts village, where performance and studioarts
support each other and create a synergy. People ar-
riving for a concert at Lenfest could walk through an
(adjacent) art gallery or listen to students practicing.”

W&L already has retained the respected his-
toricpreservatior1ﬁnnofFran'erAssociatesinStauntor1
toadviseitontheadaptivere-useoftheoldtrain
station on the site.

"IheUniversityisplanningtodiscusswithcom-
munity members an appropriate way to incorporate
thetrainsta1ionintoourplanningandtoﬁndanap—
propriate use for it,” said Contos. “Demolition is not
an option we are considering.”

O&m0mAddition

Everexpanding space demand on the University
promptedtheBoardofTnrsteestoincludeinthecapi-
tal campaigrfs goals an addition near the commerce
schoolcontairrirrgrnoreserrrirrarandlectureclassroorrs,
as well as more oﬂice space for college faculty.

The University is considering an addition of up
to 20,000square—feet where the co—op snack bars
outdoor patio currently is located Since the co—op will
be moving to the University Oomrnons when it opens
in2003,thatpatioareawillbereplacedby alargerand
more picturesque courtyard drawing students and
faculty together from the Commons, the Wrlliarns
School, the University Bookstore and the Graham-
Leesdormitory. _

“Clearly, one of the University’s strategies in
planning for the proposed addition and a new, well-
landscaped courtyard istoﬁndbuildablespacewithin
the core of campus,” Contos said “At the same time,
we are very sensitive to both maintaining the historic
scale of buildings and the open views and green-
spaces that make Washington and Lee a national
architectural treasure.”

Athleticliieldlrnproverrrerrts

About $25 million in upgrades to athletic ﬁelth also
proverrertstoﬂreoldbaseballﬁeldwouldallowtmtam
rerrtlymrriserlfacilitytoberxurreasrrccastatiimrtwiﬁrthe
current soccer ﬁeld then available as a practice site

  
 

 

 110:2

 

aerate  
V k:ju"§:r:uvra.r’aitIs?' V

 

0iN.r Wt’ it  
_,  *

4-Contact Bimaer  ‘
 —~      .
       ".I‘hursda§__rl, Fab- '14-"V3230 - 9:016-iv
-  ,  *It.Fridag, Feb.‘ 3.5  1513?“.-"R aura-V, ,
 A _ -'.i<«e£ly..H;’an'is an Keyhadfd 

 v-v-vvvv---~-~«~---+ 
 Fee. 14, aurora

_:

,-.5 5 .3». -



     
    

 

8 p.m.—Theatre Series.
“Wild Oats” by James
McLure. Directed by Al Gor-

don. Johnson Theatre,
Lenfest Center.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the
GHQ. DJ Jonas. GHQ.

T\1esday,Feb. 12

12 p.m.—W&L Employ-
ees’ Christian Fellowship
Brown Bag Lunch. Room 108,
University Center.

7 p.m.—Lecture.
“Abraham Lincoln as the
First Black President?
Frederick Douglass on the

MONDAY. FEBRUARY 11. 2(KL2

Lincoln Presidency,” Dr.
Lucas Morel, assistant pro-
fessor of politics, W&L.
Northen Auditorium.

8 p.m.—Theatre Series.
“Wild Oats” by James
McLure. Directed by Al Gor-
don. Johnson Theatre,
Lenfest Center.

Wednesday, Feb.13

6:30 pm—I.eadership Semi-
nar Series. The Spirit of a
Woman. Room 205, Univer-
sity Center. Facilitated by
W.C. “Burr” Datz, director of
Leadership Development.

7 p.m.—Television and the
African American Experience:
Civil Rights and Beyond. Pro-
duced by the Museum of
Television and Radio. Part II:
Images of African-American
on Prime-Time Television.
Room 221, Williams School.

8 p.m.—-Lenfest Series.
Aquila Theatre Company pre-
sents “The Tempest.” Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Thursday, Feb. 14

4 p.m.—-Public
Seminar.“Galapagos:
Darwin’s Islands Today,” Pro-
fessor Emeritus Cleveland P.
Hickman. Room 114, Science
C e nter .
(sponsored by the biology
department) »

8 p.m.—-Lenfest Series.
Aquila Theatre Company pre-
sents ‘The Wrath of Achilles.”
Keller Theatre, Lenfest Center.

Fn'day,Feb.15

12p.m——Terrorism: An In-
terdisciplinary Perspective
Series. “Biological Terrorism,”
Gary Crocker, State Depart-
ment Analyst. Room A214,
Science Center.

FROM THE SHADOWS

FORMElCIADlRECI‘OR.Dr.R0b6It M.Gatessp0ke
in Lee Chapel Thurs, Feb. 7. Gates, the former
director of the CIA, addressed the factors leading
up to Sept. 1 l . He blamed the Clinton administra-

tion for ignoring CIA warnings about terrorist at-
tacks and denying it sufficient funds. Outside
agitators peppered Gates with personal at-
tacks disguised as questions about policy.

MBoFazRARAlRing-twnPhi

LSAT Super Prep at W&L
starts February 26

Ill

space is limited rt

Call Now to reserve your spot ll!
(Ask for course code LSCVZSD1).

Call or visit us; online today to enroll!

1-s-ttrrrsr

kaptestcom  

‘t_"£s%Tis§@t¢rw%rr%it¢f§te1M$e?tntté.&dt¥t§s$i¢at3bt£a$:.

  

 
       
 
  
   



Test Prep, Admissions  Guidance. For life.

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

Dining Services supplies
Soviet—style suppers

The Ring-tum Phi professes a healthy re-
spect for the Co-op. The Cooperational Facil-
ity of Glory, as we call it, is a beacon of hope
and food during cold Sunday evenings in the
ofﬁce.

But yesterday the Co-op became a patsy
for the dark designs of the Dining Services
Commissary, an outdated and controlling bu-
reaucracy reminiscent of the 70s USSR. The
DineServ ruthlessly enforces conformity in
times and places for eating.

This was driven home when an editor stopped
by Evans to pick up Sunday supper. Surprisingly
ﬁnding the meal unsatisfactory, he stopped by the
Co-op for a supplementary dinner. Imagine his
chagrin when told that his two dinners were too
close together“. he couldn’t use a meal plan be-
cause the DineServ decided his meals were too
close together.

What’s up with this? Should the High Com-
missars of DineServ allowed to tell us how
many meals we can eat in one day? If a stu-
dent pays for 10 meals a week, he should be
allowed to eat all of them on the same day, or
even at the same time.

Now, it’s arguable that the D—hall needs a
regular source of income. But that’s where
the freshmen, the university’s proles, come in.
They are DineServ’s financial fuel. Vifrth nearly
500 freshmen involuntarily taking 21 meals a
week, one would imagine that DineServ cof-
fers must be busting with the support of the
populace.

These revenues are not gong to toward
quotidian efforts. If so, upperclassmen would
be more often tempted to return to the Laetitia
Pate Evans, or the “Freshmen Feeding Trough,”
as it’s commonly known.

No, the money is being used for special

. events like Christmas Dinner and Wok Night.
It’s not for nothing that DineServ has snared
three Special Event awards in the last three
years, including the 2000 Grand Prize in Cater-
ing Special Events.

Perhaps DineServ Commisars should stop

- -chasing after regional culinary awards and in-

T stead focus on increasing student choice. We
want to eat when we want to.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

“WEARING NOTHING BUT

LEATHER AND A GOOFY SMILE . . .”

—ANONYMOUS PHI EDITOR-IN-CHIEF IN
REFERENCE To 'I‘HE UNCONVENTIONAL
WEEKEND DRESS or AN ASST. EDITOR

‘r’r'.A$iaI.~ez‘=?«Gr:»=.-..in  l_3i.':'.r:sasa'rx P

Matthew B. McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeernullah
Brett T. Kirwan
AndrewLatimer
Matthew A. Cornsen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. Trinidad
Mary E. Guy

Meg Ferrara

J eb Brooks

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

THE

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers

Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent. '

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent arid length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address.‘ University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi. wlu.edu

TEE RNG-Tun: PHI

PIN ION S

BREITT. KIRWAN
OPINIONS E.on0R
EMAILK1RwANB@wLuE1J

9/ ll encouraged Ameria—hars

Although the Sept. 11 attacks
deepened the country’s slumping
economy, they did create a bumper
crop of anti—American invective from
the nattering class on the left. Anti-
Americanism has been in vogue
among the liberal elites on both coasts
since Vietnam, but America’s
reassertion of her power and moral
uprightness in the War on Terror has
created more opportunities to bemoan
the excesses and errors of our soci-
ety than ever before.

America’s critics can be broken
into three categories—-- the leftist Euro-
elites and their disciples in this coun-
try, celebrities and hangers-on who
deign to share their sage wisdom with
those outside the Hollywood cock-
tail party circuit and liberal joumal-
ists and commentators who make a
living in America—bashing.

Examples of the first have
abounded since al—Qaeda prisoners
have arrived at Guantanamo Bay.
Britain’s Daily Mail ran a picture of
the detainees on the frontpage under
the headline “Tortured.” Members
from a slew of European parliaments
have voiced disapproval of our han-
dling of the terrorists. An unidenti-
ﬁed Western European ambassador
told the International Herald Tribune
that our treatment of the captives,
“puts at stake the moral credibility of
the war.” But while we are cutting off
hair, the Taliban and the Saudis cut
off hands for stealing and stone to
death adulterers.

Joschka Fischer, the German For-
eign Minister and member of the Green
party, has been one of America’s larg-
est critics, accusing us of “making up
rules” for the prisoners and subtly
threatening that the anti-terror coali-
tion could hinge on the perceived in-
justices meted out in Cuba. Ifonly our
European so-called al-
lies would focus on
the real injustice dealt
to the victims of the,
attacks and not the
“perceived injustice”
of having only a six by eight foot cell.

Celebrities, who have a long his-
tory of being so sophisticated as to
be beyond patriotism, have not let
us down in this war. Most disgust-
ing in his rhetoric is Norman Mailer,
who labeled America’s new-found
patriotism as “going too far,” and
derided our national pride as an “ob-
scene infatuation.” Although many
lent their voices and talents to rais-
ing funds for the victims of the at-
tacks, others showed little forbear-
ance in criticizing the nation.

Jane Fonda, who began her
America-hating career 30 years ago
aiding the Viet Cong in Hanoi, told an
Atlanta area radio station “we must
try to understand the underlying

Letter to the Editor

RIGHT OF THEKBEJ
BREIT T. KIRWAN ‘O4

HANOI HoNEY: Jane Fonda, the original Arnerica-hater, sits with Viet Cong soldiers
near an anti-aircraft gun she used to attack American aircraft.

causes of terrorism.” She went on to
criticize our “saber rattling” and “calls
for vengeance.” Sorry Jane, but the
cause of terrorism is radical Islam, not
anything we did, not even our sup-
port of Israel. Moreover, a woman who
fought with the Viet Cong against
American servicemen is hardly quali-
ﬁed to deﬁne our war on terror as no
more than “saber rattling.”

America’s most vociferous group
of critics has been, by
far, the liberal joinnal—
ists employed by
magazines such as
The Nation and W1-
lage Voice to bash
the United States. One Barbara
Kingsolver. wrote in The San_Fran-_
cisco Chronicle, “The American ﬂag
stands for intimidation, censorship,
violence, bigotry, sexism, homopho-
bia, and shoving the Constitution
through a paper shredder. Who are
we calling terrorists here?”

In The Los Angeles Times, she
suggested that we lower our level of

‘energy consumption and build better

mass transit systems, concluding that,
with such measures, we could “get
by with a military budget the size of
Iceland’s.” Apparently, the terrorists
were unaware of the subway station
underneath the World Trade Center,
otherwise they would have directed
their planes elsewhere.

In The Nation, Katha Pollitt
wrote that she forbid her daughter
from ﬂying an American ﬂag in their
living room window because the ﬂag
represents “the violent anti-Arab
and anti—Muslim bigotry that has al-
ready resulted in murder, vandalism
and arson around the country and
harassment on New York City streets
and campuses.” She went on to
claim that our bombing campaign
failed to hurt the Taliban, but rather
only their victims, the people of Af-
ghanistan. I suppose their cheering
in the streets and the mullahs’ hasty
retreat had nothing to do with our
military campaign.

Other lowlights are Susan
Sontag’s riickriarriing of Pres. Bush as
“our ridiculous President,” Edward
Said chalking the attacks up to our
support of Israel and Frank Rich’s New
York Times piece “How to lose a war”
in which he spat, “special interests—
particularly high—rolling campaign
contributors and (the) noisiest theo-
crats of the right-— have veto power
over public safety, public health and
economic prudence in war, it turns out,
no less than in peacetime.”

Fortunately, it turns out that the
uniﬁcation of America is truly the sil-
ver lining in the attacks and America-
haters, although louder, have shown
to be even farther on the fringe and
more easily ignored.

PAGE 3?
Diversity isn’t found in
programs and quotas

“Why should we want to increase diversity?” This
is a question that I have heard many times in various
ways as I have gone through my education, from teach-
ers and students alike. For me, diversity has been a
great beneﬁt in shaping the person I am.

Coming from a military background, I have had the
opportunity to meet a multitude of people from many
different places with
many different ideas.
I could not imagine
surrounding myself
with a bunch of
people that come from a similar background as myself
and consider myself growing and expanding. And,
growth and expansion is what college should be about.

Diversity is also becoming more important in our
global economy, as countries other than the United
States are in control of an increasing percentage of the
world’s wealth. Being in an atmosphere in which diver-
sity is maintained and promoted gives one a greater
opportunity to go outside of his community and suc-
ceed, whether that be in business or just getting the
most out of a week tour of another country. The world
would be a boring place if everyone thought the same
way, and fewer problems would be solved if everyone
approached them in the same way. The United States
of America would never have been achieved if our
Founding Fathers thought the same way. In a genetic
sense, genetic diversity is even essential for the suc-
cess of a species.

Washington and Lee, like many of our country’s
top schools, is in a process of trying to promote diver-
sity at its campus. However, the mechanisms by which
such diversity programs are implemented often draw
criticisms. Perhaps the most famous consequence of a
diversity promotion program resulted in the Bakke
decision, which eliminated racial quotas as a basis for
promoting diversity at college campuses. So, how do
we promote diversity at our colleges? How do we make
these decisions while keeping fairness in rriind?

Unfortunately, I do not have any easy answers for
these questions, but I urge those of you who are say-
ing that W&L should make decisions solely based on
qualiﬁcations to think hard. There would be a signiﬁ-
cantly higher percentage of women at Washington and
Lee, if admissions decisions were made merely with
regard to credentials instead of a policy of accepting a
class that is 55% male and 45% female.

Another issue that comes to mind when one thinks
of is “connections.” As Ben Stein said spoke in Lee
Chapel, “most of your life will be detemiined by whom
you know.” At many of the country’s elite schools,
there are some students who gained admissions be-
cause of whom they knew or to whom they are related.
Is this a qualiﬁcations-based system?

Basically, many people would like to have diver-
sity, but have great trouble deciding on a mechanism
for attaining it. I do not think that any system, mecha-
nism, or policy will increase diversity at Washington
and Lee. All these systems and policies can do is in-
crease the number of people of different backgrounds
at our campus. True diversity in any community has to
come from the exchange of ideas between these differ-
ent populations. We, as a community, need to realize
the beneﬁts that diversity can bring to both our carn-
pus and our lives. Thus, I encourage you to talk to
someone of a different background, take a course on a
culture you are unacquainted with, or visit a place with
a different culture. I guarantee you that all of the people
involved will beneﬁt.

COMMON SENSE
ONATHAN WORTHAM ‘04

Junior defends Jersey as better than South

Dear Editor,

Last summer, I had the great privilege to live in New
Jersey. This was perhaps the most enjoyable three months
of my entire life. That having been said, you can imagine
my surprise when I glanced through the Phi last Monday
evening and noticed that the TALKback question of the
week was, “What do you hate most about New Jersey?”

In the section, ignorant W&L students were asked
what their beef was with NJ. One girl said that New Jersey
is the “armpit” of the United States, implying that NJ was
dirty/smeHy. Perhaps the areas that this person has seen
were indeed dirty (the northern section of the Jersey Tum-
pike comes to mind, Newark, Jersey City, etc. . .) however,
there is a lot more to New Jersey than meets the eye.

New Jersey is home to nineteen of America’s 250 Rich-
est Towns (Worth Magazine, June 2001). There are only
eight towns in the entirety of the South on that list, two in
Virginia, one in South Carolina, one in North Carolina, one
in Maryland, two in Kentucky, one in Georgia. The great
expanse of the state of Texas offers only ﬁve of the richest
250 towns in the country. Many of these nice towns lie

“I have prior
commitments.”
——Meredith Bailey, ‘O5

“Sure.”
——Christine Caldrone, ‘O5

along the Central and Northern shores of New Jersey in
close proximity to one another. This area, Momnouth
County, is arguably the nicest place to live in the country
(having close proximity to both New York City and the
beautiful beaches of North Central Jersey.)

Many people believe that New Jersey is uninhabit-
able due to pollution. New J ersey’s pollution is a problem,
but it is not as bad as some may think. On the Environ-
mental Defense Total Air Pollution Rankings
(www.Scorecard.org), New Jersey is a high 9”‘ on the list.
It does however trail southern states Louisiana (5) and
Georgia (8). Followed closely by Maryland (10), North
Carolina (12), Tennessee (13), and Alabama (14), all states
residing below the Mason-Dixon Line. Texas placed sec-
ond on that list.

I am also very quick to point out that New Jersey and
my own Commonwealth of Massachusetts rank 46"‘ and
47"‘ on the Total Animal Waste Pollution Ranking. The
state of Texas owns the title of “Most Total Animal Waste”
with 110,000,000 tons of waste per year. Don’t mess with
Texas? Too late.

Nice areas of New Jersey are plentiful; you simply
need to give the state more than a cursory drive through

“That’s what I have »
Patick Hastings for.”
—Ali Santoro, ‘05

“Only for you.”
--Lisa Miller, ‘05

to learn of them. However, most of the people reading this

article will never get to see the sparkling beaches of North —

Central Jersey (home of the second rated surf spot on the
East Coast- Manasquan Inlet), and will probably assume
that New Jersey deserves its “Garbage State” reputation.
That is actually probably a good thing- the fewer rednecks
pretending to be urban andtrendy in and around New
York, the better. I

In closing, do the Southerners at this school
have a right to badmouth New Jersey?
Fuhgettaboudit. The fact is that every redneck at
this school that wants to be successful in the finan-
cial world will be begging and pleading his boss for
a raise so that he canafford the beautiful scenery of I
North Central J ersey.

For those of you who don’t want to work in or visit
the New York area, have fun in the sticks and enjoy your
huntin’ and ﬁshin’ with the good ole boys. I’ll be laughing
it up while I get a dark, brown tan, surﬁng my days away
down the Jersey shore.

Sincerely,
Benjamin Jones ‘O3

“Only if you give me a
really good Valentine.”
--Erin Dougherty, ‘04

   

 

PAGE 4

      

“The international community
must address itself to solve without
delay the Arab—Israeli conﬂict,” said
King Abdullah II of Jordan at the
World Economic Forum held last week
in New York City. The forum, attended
by leaders from all over the world, af-
fords these leaders the opportunity
to discuss pressing issues in a more
open and friendly manner than if they
were in a UN session.

Everyone from billionaire George
Soros to Carter National Security Ad-
viser, Zbigniew Brzezinkski, spoke on
topics in what U2 singer, Bono, de-
scribed as “a very casual setting.”
While Bono was in fact mildly chas-
tising the forum by suggesting that
the leaders needed to actually act
upon their words after the conference,
he still made the important point that
issues were being debated that would
not otherwise be discussed in the
public arena.

Despite these obviously good
intentions of the forum, the fact is,
certain groups View a large gathering
of inﬂuential and generally wealthy
people suspiciously. They insist upon
protesting against the World Eco-
nomic Forum as an annual ritual; no
matter what is discussed, they have
something to say against it simply
because it exists. No matter that they
actually have no clue what goes on
outside of their neatly printed polem-
ics they hand out to passersby; they
simply must have a cause against
which to protest.

No, what is truly disturbing is not
the existence of these activists. They
have every right to their opinion,
whether or not the majority agrees
with it. Furthermore, they have every
right to stage a protest, no matter how
inane it is or how in-
tellectually weak
their argument is.
What is downright
alarming, however,
and blatantly outrageous, is their use
of violent tactics to accomplish their
“peaceful” objectives.

Consider the Feb. 4 New York
Times headline, “150 Protestors Ar-
rested at 2 Demonstrations Miles
Away From Meeting.” The Times, not
exactly a big supporter of the political
right, reports on the “chanting and
sometimes raucous demonstrators” in
the East Village and the Upper East
Side.” While the article points out that
the majority of protestors this year
were peaceful, it is the hard-core fringe
that got arrested-—and it is this fringe
that organizes the protests and pro-
vides the impetus for their snaky
cause.

These activists are a menace to
society. The reason the police were
arresting the demonstrators is be-
cause they were stopping traffic (put-
ting themselves and others in danger

RIGHT WING Reﬁtirsf
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH _‘05_

A 
Protesters need to knock it off

COURTESY PRWT. INDYMEIA. ORG

NUIS: WEF protesters continue to hurt small business in the host cities and help no one.

in the process), spilling red paint, and
smashing doors and windows. Police
Commissioner Raymond Kelly was
jeered at by the protestors, who urged
him to release the arrested activists,
who accused him of protecting the
rich by halting the rampant vandal-
ism. As a former resident of New
York’s Upper East Side, I wouldn’t
want to see people marching through
my neighborhood throwing things at
my windows and endangering my per-
sonal safety. I rriight
be against their
cause, but I am not
there at the WEF
and have no inﬂu-
ence over what goes on in there. Yet,
they would seek to endanger my safety
in their irrational exuberance.

One might call them professional
activists, for that is exactly what they
are. They are people who are too
lazy—or too untalented—to do any-
thing else. They could work at fast
food restaurants, but apparently, do-
ing so would subjugate them to cor-
porate “evil” and violate some bizarre
moral they hold. Perhaps this criticism
is unfair; perhaps I am being too harsh
on them. However, just as we Ameri-
cans are finally cracking down on for-
eign terrorists who hurt us, we must
now crack down on domestic terror-
ists.

While there is certainly terrorism
on the extremist right—tl1ink Timothy
McVeigh and the Oklahoma City
bombings—the extremist left is far
more dangerous because it has a prob-

lem with just about everything. And
it’s not afraid to do something fatally
dangerous to others about it.

Take, for example, this quote,
from consumerfreedomcom, by Bruce
Friedrich, the vegan campaign coor-
dinator for People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals during the “Ani-
mal Rights 200l” conference: “...of
course we’re going to be blowing
things up and smashing windows. . .I
think it’s a great way to bring about
animal liberation. . .. I think it would
be great if all of the fast food outlets,
slaughterhouses, these laboratories,
and the banks that fund them ex-
ploded tomorrow. I think it’s perfectly
appropriate for people to take bricks
and toss them through the windows.
...Hallelujah to the people who are
willing to do it.”

The fact is, while they may
have a principled stand—despite
the fact that the co—founder of
Greenpeace USA, Patrick Moore,
calls them “scientific illiterates”—‘—
their methodology is no better than
that of Osama bin Laden and his
terrorist network, al-Qaeda.

Radical and reactionary groups
need to knock it off. Their cowardly
behavior will not intimidate us into
giving into their ridiculous de-
mands. Their wanton destruction of
our property is, believe it or not,
worse than eating a turkey for
Thanksgiving dinner. They should
stay away from venues like the
World Economic Forum, and, please,
stay away from my windows.

$$$$ Easy Money $$$$

I will pay $40 for your phone book
Call Lee Ramsey toll free at 866-577-7237

A etru.r'a< driver ruined something-
p.reeiou.e. Amber Ap—edae.a..
Friends now: Let !«’r-tends; ‘inrlwe 

 

-myaivuasuex«?)tamengaussau§«a

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

free!

1-800-234-7007

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Group organizers travel
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!

www.endlesssummertours.com

E-File Your Federal & State Returns

$9.95 for All at www.123fi|e.net

See web-site for additional credit.
(“bookmark" this ad for future reference)

#1 Spring Break
l/aca t‘/ons./

Cancun, Jamaica,
Bahamas, dl F/or/a’a.
Best‘ Part‘/es, Best‘ Ho te/s,
Best‘ Prices/

Group Drscoun ts, Group
organizers t‘rave/ free!
Space is //m/t‘ed/ Hurry up
at Book Now!
1-800-234-7007
www.endlesssummertours.com

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

oward of the Week

An irregular :l’eatu1'e of the Ring~tunr. Phi Opiiiietis section

Norman Mailer

    

COUll3SYWWW.Tl1EGRAPH.C0.U
MAILSTROM: Norman Mailer proved to be more afraid of
patiiotismthantenoiism whenheciitisized post-9/1 l ﬂag waving.

“What happened on September 1 l was horrific, but
this patriotic fever can go too far. America has an almost

a form of reportage that rriixes fact with fiction in the
retelling of events.

Mailer grew up in the Crown Heights neighborhood
of Brooklyn and has been manied six times. In 1960, he
was brieﬂy sent to a mental hospital after stabbing his
second wife. His supporters have said that his rough up-
bringing and war-time service have given him a “tough
guy” outlook and only make his comments about America’s
patriotism only a continuation of “his habit about asking
provocative questions about his native land.”

Whatever the reason, Mailer’s comments do not
exhibit a “provocative” streak, but rather are an example
of the all-too—typical criticisms of America and its newly
found unity. We hope that he ends in the same dustbin
of history that his fellow America—haters the Taliban and
al—Qaeda have found themselves.

obscene infatuation with itself. Has there ever been a .  =

big, powerfulcountry that is as patriotic as America?
And patriotic in the tinniest way, with so much ﬂag wav-
ing? You’d really think we were some poor little republic,
and that if one person lost his religion for one hour, the
whole thing would crumble. America is the real religion
in this country.

“The Right wing benefited so much from Septem-
ber 11 that, if I were still a conspiratorialist, I would be-
lieve they’d done it.”

These statements, recorded in a Feb. 6 interview
with Michael Sheldon of London’s Daily Telegraph, have
earned author Normal Mailer the Phi’s second Coward
of the Week.

Mailer first became famous in the 1948 with the re-
lease of a critically-acclaimed and commercially success-
ful, “The Naked and the Dead,” a novel based on his
experiences as an Army cook in the Philippines during
World War II. Other famous works of Mailer’s include
“The Executioner’s Song” and “The Armies of the Night.”
Mailer is also credited with pioneering “new journalism,”

 

(HJRFBY WVVW.}vNvK‘.(X)M
COURAGE: New York police and ﬁre men carry a tattered ﬂag
ﬁtom the World Trade Center atthe Olympic opening oeiemonies.

Write for The Ring—tum Phi
Washington and Lee’s Paper of Record

E-mail phi @wlu. edrr for more information

 

the one that got away...
Happy Valentine's Day, Mike

xoxo — (I)

        
     

gag $1 V}:   Wig g - V”. g gm v~ £_,»””'~*,-§
4.. 1' ' A ,--_ ~ ,
t“1§:’““‘ 52 -5.-esii. t  . .~"§l.7?~‘"2 wit it 5”“ at J -A 3 
at... “M "kw" §~.;z>~ ‘~\r:.r<~.MM H x. '  It a» x 9»./A 3. ‘...'£..*.  ‘tx»...»*‘ “‘¢A«:e:«€'.._
. 7» ‘WYQQWV

t3: 5*
 v  A
2.. 2.2. it: Wt .  ta... .. s

‘W

E
«ii
E’)

To”: =,.~ «i
GQVAE  Wilfj 

M   
DJ Jonas  
onday, February 11

    
   
     
  
       
 
 
 
 

K {».v.n.«?<-ta-.
)f4§O«ﬂ$O\9\ stem: sash.
_  a ,,,,.,;r

  

*0‘? lgﬂm

'5:
E‘ we '-*  » 
" ‘ fair. ..M\,, W

PAGE 5

‘EC.

BY JOHN F. ZINK
1972 STAFF WRITER

The Executive Committee, meeting Monday
night, heard arguments by committee members and
spectators for and against the proposal that Wash-
ington and Lee go coeducational in the future.
After the various opinions were voiced on the sub-
ject, a vote was taken endorsing coeducation, nine
to three. -

Steve Robinson, President of the Student Body,
stated that he was in favor of the move toward coedu-
cation. Robinson said that coeducation is essential
to maintain the high quality of education at Washing-
ton and Lee. One representative raised the question
of whether or not it was proper for the Executive Com-
mittee to make a statement concerning the subject of
coeducation before the matter comes up before the
entire student body in the form of a referendum dur-
ing the spring.

Robinson then asked for remarks from the audi-
ence. One student said that the objection raised
against coeducation on the basis that it would disrupt
the course structure was unfounded. He pointed out
that the courses are in a constant state of change re-
gardless of coeds or not. He also voiced the opinion
that a move towards coeducation would improve the
financial position of the university by making it a more
attractive recipient of government and private dona-
tions.

Objections to coeducation were raised by Mike
Brittin, sophomore representative. Brittin stated that
there were no immediate plans for the expansion of
campus facilities. He stated that the increase in stu-
dents would add too many students to an already over-
extended student body. Other objections were that
the admission of women would hurt the science
courses, make the Honor Code unenforceable, cause
the alumni to lose their identity with Washington and
Lee, and would cause W&L to lose an aspect of its
uniqueness.

Representative John McCarthy stated that the Ex-
ecutive Committee’s function was not to lay out a plan
for coeducation. He said “There are many ways to
implement the coeducational idea.” McCarthy also
stated, “The point now is to come out with a state-
ment; to get the student body behind this issue is the
only way to get it going.”

Glenn Azuma, agreeing with McCarthy, said,
“The Executive Committee must lead the stu-
dents.” ‘

Rick Gray, Executive Committee Secretary, stated
that the E.C. should act as an educational body; the
student body should know all of the facts and fig-
ures.

Lock Handley, Senior Law Representative,
said, “We should discuss it (coeducation) in
public in order to be fair to
those who hold the minor-
ity opinion.”

Several members of the au-
dience voiced support for co-
education. One student said
that “We are limiting ourselves
as a university.” He stated that
by going coeducational, the education we receive will
be complete. Another student stated that as it stands
now, the supposition is that is that the male/female
relationship is rather unimportant. He continued, “You
(Executive Committee) do have powers of suggestion
to the faculty and student body. This is a matter which
requires your attention.”

John McCarthy, urging a formal statement, said “We

‘A Beautiful Mind’ challenges perceptions,

Russell Crowe’s John Nash struggles with genius, mental instabilities in Howard’s visually attractive, we

HE RING-TUM PHI
W &LIEE

OTHER OBJECTIONS [TO COEDUCATTON]
WERE THAT THE ADMISSION OF wOMEN
WOULD HURT THE SCIENCE COURSES [AND]
MAKE THE HONOR CODE UNENFORCEABLE...

MATIIIEwC0URsEN&CATIImNEGUY
W&LIEEFDIIORS
EMAI;dTIsNw@\IIUE1I&aIYc@wInH1I

in ““"""\.‘?‘.W+‘\
my (

». ;~' ""3 g

COLRTESY or CALYX

AHH, THE GOOD 0L’ DAYS.
(Top) Signs like this one adorned the colonnade in 1973 when
students, faculty and trustees debated the admission of women to

W&L

(Above) In the 50s W&L gentlemen had to Search for dates at other
local colleges and universities such as Sweet Briar, Hollins and
Randolph-Macon.

(Left) Despite the less than convenient methods, everyone still
managed to have a ball. Partygoers enjoy live music at the 1937 Fancy
Dress Ball

COURTESY or Cour CHEER FOR WAS moron AND EE

should make it an important issue. We should either
_say that we are for it, or that we are against it.” With
that statement, Glenn Azuma, Vice-President of the

Executive Committee, made the motion that the Ex- ‘

ecutive Committee endorse the concept of coeduca-
tion at Washington and Lee. Be-
fore the vote could be taken,
however, Lock Handley asked if
he could give his reason for an
affirmative vote. Handley said
“Our society is changing, one
change is in the way men and
women look at each other; an
all male school does not fit into this change.” Handley
continued, “I would rather see this school fall ﬂat on
its face going in the right direction,-than for it to con-
tinue a type of ‘game preserve’ for male chauvinism.
We are avoiding our responsibility if we do not realize
the trend today.”

President Robinson then called for a vote on
the Azuma motion; the motion carried in favor of

coeducation nine to three. Robinson also stated
that at next week’s meeting there would be a similar
discussion of re-instituting required English
courses.

As one can see, there was a significant interest,
among the men of the Washington and Lee student
body, in opening the University to women as early
as 1972. In I/Tefall of the same year, the trustees
and students ofDartmouth College voted to become
a coeducational institution. However, Washington
and Lee waited anotherfourteen years until decid-
ing in favor of the university accepting women in
I986.—-Supplementary information provided by
Catherine C. Guy, W&Life editor.

From the archives: the Ring-
tum Phi, February 2, 1972

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

'~'<;

The guy next door:
Rats no more

BY SAMLAGRoNI#STAI«“~d1zREs=rNDHrr

Some time this week you’ll probably run into a breed
of cadet that hasn’t shown its face all year.
You can tell who they are by their unusually short hair;
haircuts that make the rest of us cadets look
like Art Garfunkel.

These guys are our fourth classmen.

They used to be rats, but now they’re full-ﬂedged
members of the corps of cadets. And for the next 5
months or so they’ll be jerks.

It’s true. During the ratline, most of the bald little
guys are meek and humble. There is a very heavy ham-
mer that drops on those who aren’t.

But things change once they push through the mud.
They get to grow their hair, wear black belts and
nametags instead of white. And they get the privilege
to walk around like normal human beings.

They also become arrogant.

And there is a reason for that. Over the weekend
they have undergone a rite of passage that has been
with VMI for as long as our longwinded alumni can
remember. It’s called Breakout.

Breakout, always capitalized so it’s not to be con-
fused with any kind of acne condition, is one of the
three big events during a VMI cadet’s life.

The other two are Ring Figure our junior year (that’s
where we get those massive rocks that get us mistaken
for Maﬁa dons and Super Bowl Champions, another
column for sure) and graduation, when we actually leave
promising never to return, and show up two years later
to buy spider logo P.J.’s. for our kids.

But Breakout is the first landmark. It’s a ceremony
that’S been through several evolutions. It’s now a team-
building, conﬁdence—building exercise that forges an
intense bond between classmates.

In the 50s it used to be an excuse for upperclassmen
to beat the living shoe polish out of rats with belts.

But we have grown a bit more civilized since then. When
my father was a rat, back in the wilds of the freewheeling,
freeloving 70s, they sealed the rats in Crozet Hall (that’s
where we eat). And they literally broke out of barricaded
doors and ran to Barracks pushing through crowds of up-
perclassmen to get to the fourth ﬂoor “breaking out” to the
status of upperclassmen.

Crowds of rats pushed up the exposed staircases
tussling with sophomores, juniors and seniors.

Legend has it that some poor kid once took an acci-
dental swan dive into our concrete courtyard.

My father did his part by distracting upperclassmen
holding rats back, while one of his buddies dumped a bucket
of poop on his head. We don’t do that anymore, as hilari-
ous as that is,.I mean a bucket of poop that’s awesome! (I
said poop, I know. This is a family riewspaperafter all, kids.)

A few years after my dad ran to the top floor the
practice was thought to be a little on the dangerous
side (and a messy cleanup) and was stopped.

Breakout was changed to a rush up a great big
muddy hill, not as dangerous as shoving matches on
stairs, but it has a throw back to the past.

It’s covered in cow pies.

The “Hill” as we reverently refer, is the culmination of a
week’s worth of physical activity. Marches, workouts and
lots of yelling, lots and lots of yelling. When I started this
column there were 400 or so rats outside my door scream-
ing as loud as they could in what we call a sweat party.

It’s not what it sounds like: a cocktail get-together in a
smokehouse. But freshman mainly doing as many push—ups
as they can while upperclassmen scream at them. They last
about 25 min. total. The rats had several this week. They’ve
had a bunch more since August. It’s like pledging on crack.

But Saturday afternoon, it all ended. We’re just wait-
ing for the next batch.

expectations

BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

Ron Howard’s ‘A Beautiful
Mind’ challenges the perceptions
and expectations of its audience
and tries to answer the age old and
oft—disputed question: “What is
reality?”

Based on the life of Nobel Prize
winning mathematician John Nash, ‘A
Beautiful Mind’ examines one man’s
struggle to ﬁnd meaning in the com-
plex mathematical systems of our
world and to overcome the madness
within himself.

I expect this ﬁlm will win the Os-
car for best picture of the year. It is
a complicated and visually rich
work, which explores the bound-
aries of human understanding. Al-
though the film may not be my per-
sonal favor-
ite, it cer-
tainly fulfills
many of the
criteria to win
an Academy
Award this
year

The film
follows Nash from his impressive stud-
ies at Princeton, where he developed
his groundbreaking Game Theory of
Economics, to his downward spiral
into paranoid schizophrenia and sub-
sequent detachment from reality.

(‘A BEAUTIFUL MIND’) IS A
COMPLICATED AND VISUALLY RICH
WORK, wHIcH EXPLORES THE
BOUNDARIES OF HUMAN
UNDERSTANDING.

Starring Russell Crowe and Jen-
nifer Connelly, the film is filled with
powerful emotionally driven per-
formances. Crowe and Connelly
certainly have done some of the
best work of their careers in this
ﬁlm.

Crowe con-
tinues to shine
as an actor as‘
well as to
dazzle his audi-
ences with his
i m p r e s s i v e
ability to take
any part and
mold it into his
own.

Connelly, as Nash’s faithful wife
Alicia, delivers one of the most
poignantly convincing perfor-
mances I have ever seen on screen.
Her quiet strength
and compassion
serve as an anchor
to Crowe’s harrow-
ing descent into
schizophrenia.

Along with
an excellent sup-
porting cast,
which includes such strong actors
as Ed Harris, Christopher Plummer,
and Judd Hirsch, Ron Howard’s ex-
pert direction adds to the tone and
beauty of the film. Already a great
storyteller, Howard’s slow and me-

HOWARD’S SLOW AND METHODICAL
DIRECTION BRINGS A REAL SENSE OF
DEPTH TO THE FILM. HE SEEMS TO
MOVE EVERYTHING IN SLOW

MOTION, IN ORDER TO PORTRAY. . a
.THE BEUATY OF MATHEMATICS.

thodical direction brings a real
sense of depth to the film. He seems
to move everything in slow motion,
in order to portray to the audience
the beauty of mathematics in na-
ture.

This can be
seen in numer-
ous depictions,
from patterns in
the stars to
complex reﬂec-
tions of light in
drinking
glass. Every
moment seems
to be an exami-
nation of the
beauty and complex design of na-
ture.

I’m not a math student, so cer-
tain aspects of the film went way
over my head. However, the basic
concepts were quite clear to me. I
don’t want to give too much away
to those of you who have not yet
seen it, but not everything in the
film is as real as it may appear at
first glance.

By questioning percep-
tions and expectations of real-
ity, ‘A Beautiful Mind’ reaffirms
a basic truth; that our reality
comes from those who love us,
and that the beauty of nature
pales in comparison to the
beauty of love. ’

CORTESY OF l»lP.l/WWW LTU

l/-paced film; prooves Oscar material

tenders.

Z53/BEAEllUl.MlND.llTM

'1' or Hrrpzllwww.STARPULSE.COM/MovIEslBEAUTIEUL_MIND,_A/

LIVING IN A WORLD ALL HIS owN: Russell Crowe
(left and below) as brilliant mathematician and
schizophrenic John Nash loses his touch with real-
ity and is helped back to life by his wife, played by
Jennifer Connelly (below). A Beautiful Mind ap-
pears to be one of this year’s leading Oscar con-

This film is a compas-
sionate and fascinating
examination of the
power and devastation
of mental illness, as
well as one man’s emo-
tional, physical, and
mental struggle with
it. A Beautiful Mind has
received rave reviews,
and is still playing in
movie theaters nation-
wide.

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

Generals stru

Mi3cFrRRARA/ITieRiug-mmPlii
IN THE PAINT: Freshman Ian McClure (22) drives down the
lane as sophomore Hamill Jones battles for position in W&L’s
6 1 -53 win over Mary Washington at the Warner Center.

HE RlNG—TUlv1 PHI

JEiaviYlizANi<iI~i
SYoRisFmoR
FMAr.'niANi<iNi@wiIirI1i

PORTS

PAGE 6

ggle to achieve ornaent-caliber play

With a spot in the ODAC Tournament
clinched, W&L looks to step up its intensity

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee men’s basketball coach Jeff
Lafave, whose team has earned a trip to the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Tournament, wants his Generals
to reach a certain level of play heading into the Salem
Civic Center on Saturday.

This week, W&L (7-16, 4-13 ODAC) gave a mixed re-
sponse, defeating Mary Washington in a tough home
contest but falling to Eastern Mennonite on the road.

“We tell our guys we want to go into the tournament
with a purpose, with a reason to play,” Lafave said.
“This time of year, you’ve got two things you can do:
you can either pack it in when you’re struggling or
start playing like a toumament—type team with the ef-
fort and the energy.”

W&L brought those things to the Warner Center on
Thursday, knocking off Mary Washington by a 61-53 tally
in non-conference action.

The Generals led by as many as 12 in the first half,
but the Eagles hung around and clipped the lead to
28-23 at halftime. Mary Washington then used a 16-2
run to build a 46-39 lead with 10:14 remaining in the
contest.

But the Eagles managed just three points over the
next eight-plus minutes, and W&L responded by taking

    

MKIFHKRARA/Il|€Rlng-lllln Phi
BASELINE TRAP: Freshman Mike Stuart, who scored 17 points
on Thursday, looks for an open passing lane as the Eagles’
Cory Hairston and Ryan Kenna defend. Scott Hettermarm,
who led W&L with 19, looks on.

a 56-49 lead with 2:06 to play. Junior Scott HetterInann’s
three—point play with 1 :28 to go made it 59-51 and put the
game away.

Hetterrnann led the Generals with 19 points on 9-of-14
shooting from the ﬁeld, while freshman Mike Smart added

W&L drops pair of road ODAC contests

Generals S/lp to 7th in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference with losses at Eastern Mennonite, Randolph-Macon

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball team
entered last week with a chance to make a run at fifth place
in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

But the road wasn’t kind to the Generals (10-12, 7-10
ODAC), who slipped to seventh in the league standings
with losses at Eastern Mennonite and Randolph-Macon.

W&L traveled to Harrisonburg on Wednesday, and
the homestanding- Lady Royals completed the season
sweep with a 66-54 win.

Eastern Mennonite contained W&L seniors Jessica
Mentz and Megan Babst, the second and third—leading
scorers in the ODAC, by way of a 1-3-1 zone that routinely
collapsed on the Generals’ frontcourt.

“Mennonite’s game plan was a good one: they were
going to "make us beatthem from the outside,” W&L coach
Janet Hollack said. “They were going to let us shoot re-
gardless of whether we made them or not.”

But the Generals’ only consistent threat from the perim-
eter was senior Sarah Schmidt, who ﬁnished with a team-
high 14 points on 4-of-10 shooting from three-point range.

“She had to step up into a little bit of a void we were
having offensively,” Hollack said of Schmidt. “She’s al-
ways been a key part. She knows what her role is, she
accepts it and she does a good job with it.”

As a team, W&L shot just 29 percent from the floor
in the first half, and the Lady Royals turned a 14-12 lead
with 9:02 remaining into a 35-18 halftime advantage.
The Generals would cut the lead to eight on several
occasions in the second half, but could not come any
closer.

Eastern Mennonite’s frontcourt led the way, as Jenny
Cline scored a career-high 21 points and Emily Misak
added 17 points and 10 rebounds. Babst had 10 points
and 18 rebounds for W&L, while Mentz contributed eight
points and 14 boards.

No. 1 OPTION: Senior Jessica Mentz, shown here guarding Roanoke’s Katrina Vlrrlliams on Feb. 1 at the Warner Center, scored
28 points and grabbed 17 rebounds in Washington and Lee’s 74-59 loss to Randolph-Macon on Saturday.

The Generals visited Randolph-Macon on Saturday,
with the Yellow Jackets pulling out a 74-59 win. This time
W&L reestablished their inside game, but couldn’t get
anything going from the backcourt.

Mentz led all players with 28 points and 17 rebounds,
and Babst added 21 and 13, respectively. No one else
scored more than two points for the Generals.

Randolph-Macon led 37-24 at halftime and had a 21-point
advantage at 49-28 early in the second half. A 15-2 W&L run
got the Generals back in the game, but the resulting eight-point
margin was the smallest Yellow Jacket lead after halftime.

W&L closes the regular season with three ﬁnal ODAC
contests this week: Emory & Henry and Virginia Wesleyan
at home and Hollins on the road. The Generals beat all
three of those teams the first time around.

“Once you beat a team, you should have conﬁdence
about that, and right now we need conﬁdence,” Hollack
said. “Beating the teams already has kind of established
in our mindset that we can do it again.

“So we’re looking forward to the challenge,” she added.
“It’s the time of the year where you’ve got to step up or
move aside.” A

Men’s tennis opens with home loss to Mocs

Division I Tennessee-Chattanooga defeats the Generals at Duchossois

YGUY/Iliein-Phi‘
IN SERVICE: Sophomore Austin Kim and W&L lost to
Tennessee-Chattanooga 6-1 on Saturday.

BY DIYA VOHRA
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team played their ﬁrst dual
match of the season against Tennes-
see-Chattanooga on Saturday, as the
Division I Mocs handed the Generals
a 6-1 loss at the Duchossois Tennis
Center.

The day started off with three
doubles matches.

In the No. 1 doubles position, se-
niors Rob Moynihan and Rhys James
were defeated 8-3 by the Mocs’ Ja-
son Ontog and Fabian Bechera. Both
players held up well against the pow-
erful serves of their opponents.

Sophomores Graham Nix and Aus-
tin Kim fell to Thomas Knizat and
John Hangstefer at No. 2 doubles by
a ﬁnal score of 8-4. Although Kim and
Nix worked well as a team, the strong
serve—and-volley game played by
their rivals led to their defeat.

Senior Zac Vuncannon and sopho-
more K.C. Schaeffer fell 8-3 to James
Dickerson and Kyle True in the ﬁnal
doubles match.

All three doubles teams had difﬁ-
culty returning the powerful serves
of their opponents.

“The ﬁrst-serve percentage was
low and we were really struggling with
the returns of serves,” W&L coach
David Detwiler said.

The singles matches were charac-
terized by a lot more noise, excitement
and energy. Freshman Paul McClure
gave Ontog a hard and frustrating
match before ﬁnally losing 6-4, 6-2 in
straight sets at No. 1 singles.

Up against an extremely powerful
server and his previous doubles op-
ponent, Kim fell to Hangstefer 6-4, 6-
1 at the second slot. James didn’t give
up without a ﬁght at No. 3, falling 6-4,
7-6 (1) to Knizat.

At the fourth spot, Nix dropped a
6-1, 6-3 decision to Bechera, while

Moynihan took Dickerson to
tiebreakers in both sets in a 7-6 (4), 7-
6 (1) defeat.

The success of the afternoon was
Schaeffer, who defeated his Tennes-
see-Chattanooga opponent in three
long sets. After a disappointing ﬁrst
set and previously losing to his op-
ponent in the doubles, Schaeffer went
on to beat True 4-6, 6- 1 , 6-2.

Detwiler, in his second season as
W&L coach, looked upon this match
as good practice for the team and a
good indicator of where their weak-
est points lie.

“Overall, we played OK, this be-
ing our first match,” he said. “It has
been good experience to play a tough
team, and this gives them reason to
work hard at practice.”

Tennessee-Chattanooga pro-
ceeded to hand VMI a 7-0 loss in
Southern Conference competition.
The Keydets will host the Generals at
3 p.m. on Wednesday.

Write for the The Fling-tum Phi... cover W&L spring sports.

Contact Jeremy Franklin at franklinj @w1u.edu or X4060.

17. Sophomore Michael Denbow recorded a career-best
nine assists.

“(Scott) was a little bit hesitant down the stretch, but I
just asked him to be more like himself —- take the ball to
the hole and play aggressively — and he did that,” Lafave
said. “Michael (Stuart) stepped up for us and started to
hit some perimeter shots.

' “Michael (Denbow) knows his role. He’s settling in
here, and he’s setting people up.”

W&L was unable to carry that momentum to
Harrisonburg on Saturday, as Eastern Mennonite led for
all but the ﬁrst 19 seconds of an 86-68 win.

The Generals shot just 36 percent from the ﬂoor, in-
cluding 24 percent in the first half. In a very physical con-
test, the Royals hit 3l-of-39 free throws, and W&L had
three players foul out.

“We didn’t come ready to play today,” Lafave said.
“Eastem Mennonite’s not going anywhere, but they played
like they were, and we played like we weren’t.”

Junior John Warren led the Generals with 14 points, while
Stuart added 13. Denbow and freshman Patrick Neuman set
career highs in points with nine and eight respectively, and
sophomore Hamill Jones ﬁnished with nine.

W&L may have to play the remainder of the season
without Hettermarm, who injured his right ankle in the
ﬁrst half against the Royals. The junior leads the Generals
in points and rebounds on the season-with 10.7 and 6.4

per game.
Bridgewater and W&L conclude the regular season

when they come to the Warner Center for an 8 p.m. con-

test on Tuesday.

Track teams ‘Frolic’
toward ODAC meet

BY DAVE CRowi:i.L
ASSISTANT SPORTS rsnrmr

NEWPORT NEWS——The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s track teams competed in the Chris-
topher Newport Winter Frolic on Friday and Saturday.

The individual-only event was also the ﬁnal tune-
up before the Old Dominion Athletic Conference In-
door Championships at Lynchburg on Feb. 23.

Junior Chris Sullivan led the men’s squad with a
sixth-place ﬁnish among Division III runners in the 60-
meter dash, clocking in at 7.36 seconds.

“Chris had a good meet, heading into the conference
championships,” men’s coach Norris Aldridge said. “He
reached the ﬁnals and ran a personal best this season.

“He didn’t1ong-jump as well as he would have liked, but
he’s been bothered with some shin problems.”

very well in distance events, believing that Bell is the ﬁrst
freshman to break nine minutes in the 3,000-meter rim.

On the women’s side, the Generals were led by jun-
ior Burke Duncan, who captured the championship of
the 5-kilometer run with a time of 18:51.20.

“I felt it was a strong performance and it gives me
some conﬁdence heading into the championships,”
Duncan said. “It’s good to see all my hard work pay off.”

The men’s and women’s squads now enjoy a couple
of weeks of rest and preparation in order to get ready
for the ODAC Championships.

Aldridge expects good performances from his team, es-
pecia1lyf1'omjtmiorMatRopom(shotput), Bellandsullivan.
Unfortunately, the men will be without senior captain Mike
Hegg, a key component of scoring and leadership.

“I expect us to compete for third place, with Lynchburg
and Bridgewater tough to overtake,” Aldridge said.

For Duncan, however, the outcome will be up in the air.

“We have a small squad, but everyone gave good
performances on Saturday,” she said. “I guess any-
thing can happen on Feb. 23.”

W&L SCHEDULEZ FEB. 12-MARCH 4

Tuesday, Feb. 12 Saturdav. F9b- 23

women’s Basketball Indoor Track

Emory & Henry at W&L, 6 p.m. W&L at ODAC Championships
Ilen’s Basketball Baseball

Bridgewater at W&L, 8 p.m. Muhlenberg at W&L (DH), 12 p.m.
Wednesday, Feb. 13 Ilsn’s Lacrosse

Men's Tennis Bates at W&L, 1:30 p:m.
W&L at VMI, 3 p.m.
February 24-26
Thursday, Feb. 14 con
Hen’! Tennlt W&L at Pine Needles invitational

Emory & Henry at W&L, 4 p.m.
women’s Basketball
Virginia Wesleyan at W&L, 6 pm.

Sunday, Feb. 24
Baseball
Muhlenberg at W&L, 12 p.m.

SINWGV. 795- 15 Wednesday, Feb. 27
“°"’‘ 3“'‘°“’‘“' - Ilen’s Lacrosse

W&L at ODAC T°Uma"l9m- TBA Pieilfer at W&L, 3:30 p.m.
Wrestling 3,3,5,"

W&L at Centennial Conference

W&L at Shenandoah, 4 pm.
women’s Lacrosse
Sweet Briar at W&L, 4 p.m.
Thursday, Feb. 28

Men's Tennis

W&L at Radlord, 3:30 p.m.

Championships, 10 a.m.
Women's Basketball
W&L at Hollins, 2 p.m.

Monday, Feb. 18

Baseball
W&L at Oglethorpe, 3:30 pm. March 1_2
Wrestling
Tuesday Feb. 19 . . . . .
Baseball NCAA Dwision Ill Championships
- W&L at Emory, 2 p.m.
February 21-23 :'s";::";’ ""°" 2
Men's Swimming
W&L at Grove City Invitational Ema : :°my 3‘ W&L (DH)'

women’s Lacrosse
W&L at St. Mary’s (Md.), 12 p.m.
Men's Lacrosse

Thursday, Feb. 21
women’s Basketball

W&L at ODAC Tournament. TBA _

Baseba"  al   p.m.
W&L at lethorpe, 3:30 .m. .

' . A 09 p Sunday, Ilarch 3

F,bm,,y 2244 Baseball .

women-3 swimming Merchant Marine Academy at
war at ODAClAtlantic States W&L lDHl- 12 Pm-

 

Aldridge also noted that freshman Wes Bell competed

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002

      

PAGE 7

Generals look to break into upper echelon of ODAC

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee baseball
team made a huge leap last season,
thriving on a fresh influx of youth and
ﬁnishing with a school-record 23 wins.

The school record and impressive
performances, however, failed to yield
any conference glory, as the Generals
ﬁnished in fifth place in Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference play with a
record of 9-7. This left coach Jeff
Stickley’s team out in the cold, watch-
ing the four-team ODAC Tournament
from the bleachers.

The goal this year, therefore, is
simple: reach the tournament.

(ULRIPSYOF 
VETERAN SKIPPER: Jeff Stickley has
coached Washington and Lee’s baseball
team for 15 seasons.

“We need to get a few more con-
ference wins,” said Stickley, who is
entering his 16th season as head
coach. “Once you get into the tour-
nament, anything can happen with
the double-elimination format.”

Junior Michael Hanson, one of three
team captains this season, agrees with
Stickley and believes the Generals’
pitching staff, which led the ODAC in
most statistical categories last season,
is strong enough to make the difference
should W&L reach the postseason.

Hanson returns to the diamond
after a highly successful 2001 cam-
paign, where he batted .379 and led
the Generals in doubles, hits, runs,
total bases, home runs and slugging
percentage. In addition, Hanson
pitched in four games for W&L, go-
ing 2-0 with a 1.65 ERA.

But Hanson won’t need to shoul-
der the load on his own. Senior Matt
Kozora, returning at third base after
batting .398 last season, and junior
outfielder Bobby Littlehale round out
the triumvirate of captains. Senior
catcher Todd Gosselink and junior
first baseman Brian Gladysz also re-
turn after starting a majority of the
games last season.

“We all have had experience from
the first game freshman year, so I
honestly believe there are five or six
genuine leaders on this team,”
Hanson said.

The return of Littlehale to the out-
ﬁeld after he missed a majority of last
season due to injury also bodes well
for the Generals. He batted .391 over
the first six games last season.

ANOTHER ONE HoME: Junior Brian Gladysz is congratulated

a1IRIrsYoElNroRMAnoN

season. The Generals ﬁnished ﬁfth in the Old Dominion

by teammates after scoring a run in a W&L home game last Athletic Conference with a 9-7 record, 23-8 overall.

“Getting Bobby back will be a real
boost to the team,” Stickley said. “He
is a fine ballplayer.”

The destiny of this squad, how-
ever, lies in the hands of its young
pitching staff. The Generals return
Hanson and a trio of talented sopho-
more pitchers, but will miss the tal-
ents of 2001 graduate David Sigler.

“The biggest problem this season
will be replacing his innings on the
mound,” Stickley said of Sigler. “He was

Coming March 4 to the sports pages of

THE RING-TUM PHI...

Spring sports previews continue with golf and women’s tennis.
Plus continued coverage of W&L winter and spring sports.

Questions, comments, or suggestions? Contact Jeremy Franklin at franklinj@wlu.edu or x 4060.

-or 1-3’i'?~~KiD5-3! 3

‘Fire £1? national ma ienrrei fefétr ‘ '

  lltil IIIIIIIII min I Iziiimn IIIIIIIII.

iihay iheip =£azamuraity‘ grasps organise resaxurvrzaesi and ‘tight to kevep lcﬁﬁ 3W3? Wm
drag-5. {‘orIt;ac.~t.[a mrarnaniry caalmon anti "find out what yazur egaseupi ma ﬁe.-

wwwmezlpyocs t-**<;ommunEt:y.ovrg

.'!’i'.HJ GET MGSRE WI-ISM ‘((323 GS"? ‘?E‘ﬂ£‘£€T§§E‘R

Sesriicwus

IDES:(au»ntS

  la’Vié‘v’l!!.’.C{}Lii’iCillii'El'i£fel.CCii"fi
t—50t3»f£CUNC.lL

a great leader and whenever we had a
tough game, we gave him the ball. The
key will be replacing that void.”

Stickley hopes to account for the
loss with consistent efforts from
sophomores Peter Dean, Michael
Wert and Dan Kagey. All three gained
significant experience last season,
whether starting games or coming out
of the bullpen.

Dean ﬁnished the season with a
perfect 6-0 record and a 3. 10 ERA, but

the southpaw admits he still has a lot
to prove after last season.

“The record looks great, but I know
that there is a lot I can improve on,”
he said. “I know that this yearl will be
asked to pitch in more important
games against better opponents.

“Although that 6-0 looks great on
paper, I, and the guys on the team,
know that I didn’t pitch against the
best of competition.”

Wert also pitched well last season,

ﬁnishing with a 5-1 record and 3.12
ERA. Kagey ﬁnished with a deceiv-
ing 4-5 record when you consider his
two shutouts and low 3.48 ERA.
Regardless of last year’s individual

‘ records, the sophomores now readily

understand their goal this season.

“I am much more mature as a
pitcher now then I was last year,”
Dean said. “I know what is expected
of me: whether I’m coming on in re-
lief or starting, it doesn’t matter. I
know how to prepare myself for ei-
ther situation.”

The class rivalry should fuel some
ﬁne performances, as Dean admits that
“we keep each other at the top of our
games. I’m just trying to keep up with
the others.”

The baseball programs at
Bridgewater and Virginia Wesleyan
represent obstacles to be overtaken if
the team hopes to reach the upper ech-
elon of the ODAC. Hanson, however,
has no qualms about these challenges.

“We have challenged Bridgewater
and Virginia Wesleyan every year,”
Hanson said. “We are 2-3 against
Wesleyan and 1-3 against Bridgewater
in my two years, but I believe we’ll win
some games against the top teams with
our pitching staff this year.”

For now, however, the Generals will
have Georgia on their minds, as they
travel to play Oglethorpe twice and
Emory over the Washington Holiday.

“We’re not worrying about April
yet,” Hanson said. “Our focus needs
to be on the games ahead in Atlanta,
and then we can shift our attention to
the early conference games.”

W&L splits home triangular

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team underwent their ﬁnal tune-up be-
fore next weekend’s Centennial Con-
ference Tournament, hosting the W&L
Triangular on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals defeated Albright
College 37-15 before dropping a tough
24-16 decision to conference foe
Johns Hopkins.

Seniors Ivan Zdanov and Ezra
Morse led the Generals, with each

‘sweeping their two friatches on the day. '

Zdanov, wrestling in the 174-
pound class, pinned Albright’s Todd
Alscher at 3:57, then followed up by
defeating the Blue Jays’ Mike
Halchak 8-2.

Morse participated in his third

competition since returning from
an ankle injury, looking like he
hasn’t missed a beat at 197
pounds.
_ The senior captain defeated Ryan
Scarduzio of Albright 12-3, then ran
his season record to 13-0 by hand-
ing Joe Selba of Hopkins a 10-2 de-
feat.

Coach Gary Franke was pleased
with the effort from his top wrestlers,
especially as each prepares to wrestle
for a conference title and the oppor-
tunity to travel to the NCAA Division
III Championships.

“I think Ivan will receive a No. 1
seed next weekend and be in a good
position to wrestle for the crown,”
Franke said. “Ezra has been perform-
ing well, but he’s got some tough chal-
lenges in his way.”

The Generals got a little bit of help in
disposing of Albright, as the Lions were

MARYGUY/IheRing- Phi

GENERALS CAPTAIN: Senior Ezra Morse wrestles in Saturday’s W&L Triangular. The
197—pounder defeated Albright’s Ryan Scarduzio and Johns Hopkins’ Joe Selba.

forced to forfeit four matches. Senior
Ben Segal, sophomores Corey Little and
Joe Mueller and freshman Brian Avello
each received a free victory.

The clash between the Generals
and the Blue Jays, however, proved
to be a bit more exciting. Despite win-
ning ﬁve key matches, the Generals
fell victim to inexperience.

“Usually, when each team wins
ﬁve matches in a dual meet, you won’t
come out as the loser,” Franke said.
“Today, though, we suffered from
some inexperience, and the forfeit (at
133 pounds) really hurt us.

“Hopkins knew if they kept close
with us, they’d have an opportunity
to win. They performed very well.”

Although W&L fell to a conference
opponent, the matches provided a num-
ber of bright spots for the Generals.

Little came from behind with a key
reversal in the ﬁnal minute in order to

seize an 8-5 victory over Reno
Reitmayr. Avello then used his supe-
rior quickness in order to climb out of
an 8-0 hole and proceed to defeat Glen
Taylor, 16-14.

Mueller, the defending Centennial
Conference champion at 184 pounds,
wrestled a close match and grabbed a
2-1 victory.

Franke looks optimistically at next
week’s competition, but realizes he
must get big performances out of his
“big three”: Morse, Mueller and
Zdanov.

“We have one week to prepare for
conference, so we’ll work very har ,”
the coach said. “We know we need big
points from our top guys since we have
some voids at certain weight classes.”

W&L ﬁnishes its 2001-02 team
season in the Centennial Conference
Tournament on Saturday morning at
Ursinus College.

8722.

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 26-July 27, 2002

Are you looking for a-great chance to be a mentor and to
experience working with high school students while staying
at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting" four week academic
program for approximately 150 rising high school seniors.
We are looking for responsible students to help guide par-
ticipants and to plan extracurricular activities such as tal-
ent shows, lip syncs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen and more.

For further information and to obtain applications, please
contact Jennifer Lotts, Summer Scholars, Hill House at 463-

The deadline for turning in applications is February 27, 2002.

  

PAGE 8

S

BY J EREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Very few teams would be disappointed with a one-loss
campaign that landed them No. 3 in a ﬁnal poll. Even fewer
would hope to improve upon that performance after a
coaching change and the loss of ﬁve All—Americans.

But don’t call the Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team overconfident. Just know that they plan on ﬁnishing
what they’ve started.

“The players feel like there’s some unﬁnished busi-
ness from last year,” said Mike Cerino, who takes over for
12-year coach Jim Stagnitta, now at Rutgers. “We realize
that the story‘s still the same, but a lot of the characters in
the story have changed, and we have to accept that.

“There’s a different head coach, we’re doing things a little
bit different, there’s a lot of different players on the ﬁeld.”

Attackman Matt Dugan, midﬁelders Pope Hackney and
Bernie Norton, defenseman Pete Iwancio and goalie Wes
Hays — all All—Americans in one or more polls — are gone
from the squad that ﬁnished 14-1 in 2001, but failed to
secure the Old Dominion Athletic Conference title and a
bid to the NCAA Tournament.

Those are tough losses to take, to be sure, but the Gen-
erals have plenty of talent remaining. Junior midﬁelder Torn
Melanson, who joins seniors Andrew Barnett and David
Skeen as the team’s captains, says that the departed play-
ers’ leadership is the most important aspect to replace.

“This team has changed a lot since last year, and unity
is the key to our season,” Melanson said. “The leaders of
the team, which consist of more than just the captains or
seniors, must keep the unity of the team. Our team has
endless potential if we play as a team and not just as a
group of individuals.” '

With the loss of 75 goals split between Dugan and
Hackney, Melanson’s midﬁeld will have to assume more
of a scoring role in 2002, as Cerino anticipates “a slight
change” in strategy. Senior John Moore, sophomores Mark

111-. f<l\'-(:--'E‘l xi l’:§l

PORTS
&L has ‘unfinished business’ in

 

(X)lJl(ll~SY(IFSP(RlSlNR]<MA1l()N

IN THE CIRCLE: Junior co—captain Tom Melanson won 73.5 percent of his faceoffs in Washington and Lee’s 2001 campaign.

McLewee and Mike McNamara and freshmen Gavin
Molinelli and Mike Baracco are among those who the ﬁrst-
year coach expects to contribute more on the offensive
end of the ﬁeld.

“It’s obviously hard to lose so many great offensive play-
ers, but we’re just as talented, if not more, than we were last
year,” said Barnett, who was third on W&L with 29 goals and
48 points last year. “We still have the scoring power and
great offensive players. It just may take time with some guys

Generals lok to buil un r

BY JEREMY FRANKl.lN
SPORTS EDITOR

Although 2001 was the most suc-
cessful season in 13 years of Wash-
ington and Lee women’s lacrosse, this
year’s Generals dont want to talk
about it.

Instead, they're focusing on win-
ning another Old Dominion Athletic
Conference title and making the first
back-to-back NCAA Tournament ap-
pearances in school history.

“The hardest part about this year
is going to be moving forward and
not talking about last year,” sopho-
more rnidﬁelder Kelly Taffe said. “We
were undefeated in the ODAC last
year, so everyone is going to be out
to get us. We have to remember to
win the small games in order to get to
the big ones."

There are plenty of big contests
on W&L’s schedule in 2002, includ-
ing several heated rivalry games
within the ODAC. Outside of confer-
ence competition, the Generals play
teams such as Franklin and Marshall,
Denison and Mary Washington,
which knocked W&L out of the
NCAA Division III Tournament last
season.

“Hopefully, a tougher schedule just
makes you a better team,” said Jan
Hathorn, who has coached the pro-
gram since its 1988 inception. “We need
to press ourselves and push ourselves
to the next level by playing teams that
are going to do that for us.”

W&L returns its defense virtually
intact from a team that was 15-4 last
year, 8-0 in the ODAC. Senior Eloise
Priest was an All-America selection

    

oomEsY0F1NR)RMAnoN

MIDFIELD POWER: Sophomores Lee Wheeler (14) and Kelly Taffe (4) and senior
Julie Carskadon all return to the Washington and Lee midﬁeld this season.

after helping hold opponents to just
6.16 goals per game.

“Our defensive unit is just that -
a unit of hard-working girls that play
really well together,” Priest said. “Our
entire starting defense is returning
this year, which will make us even
stronger as a team. We really feel in
sync with one another out there al-
ready.”

The Generals will also beneﬁt from
the return of sophomore goalie Joanna
Perini, who had a 6.05 goals against
average and a .633 save percentage
in her freshman campaign.

“Jo is an incredible player in the
goal,” Priest said. “She has worked
really hard on her clears and skills,
and it has paid off. Our defense is re-
ally looking solid, especially with her
anchoring us from the goal.”

Hathorn also expects the midﬁeld,
where she says “there is more speed than
we’ve ever had before,” to be one of the
Generals’ strongest aspects this year.

“When you have hard-working
girls who have decent or above—aver-
age speed, you tend to run down more
balls and have the ball more often,”
Hathorn said. “If you have a midﬁeld
with the kind of experience ours has,
you tend to be a pretty solid team
because we can transition the ball one
way or another.”

On offense, W&L must replace their
leading scorer from a season ago, Liz
Borges. But the Generals return three
30-goal scorers from 2001 ——-Taﬂfe, jun-
ior Leslie Bogart and sophomore Lee
Wheeler —— and two more who scored
20 in seniors Emily Owens and
Courtenay Fisher, who serve along
with Priest as the team’s captains.

With that kind of depth coming
back, Wheeler doesn’t believe there
is pressure on any one General to carry
the offensive load.

“The loss of Liz Borges is signiﬁ-
cant, but the offense as a whole be-
came stronger with every game we

getting to know their new roles and new offense.”

Meanwhile, the Generals’ defense was the best in Divi-
sion III a season ago, and senior Eric Kontargyris and
juniors Matt Conners and Greg Hendler return to anchor a
unit that gave up just 4.87 goals a game. More playing
time is in the works for guys like junior Noah Weber and
sophomore Kenny Rasamny, and sophomore Ansel Sand-
ers will take over for Hays minding the net.

“Obviously, the goalie is where everything starts,”

ong 2001

played last year,” Wheeler said. “We
will also beneﬁt from a strong fresh-
man class who will improve the depth
of our team.”

For Hathom, the seven freshmen
on the W&L roster are an x-factor.
Whether or not they contribute im-
mediately, though, the coach looks at
the prospects of having them in her
program for four seasons.

“There isn’t a freshman out there
that isn’t going to add (to our team),’’
she said. ‘”They’re not valuable to us in
a sense that we know exactly what they
can offer us yet, but we do have some
sense of their potential, and we’re fmd—
ing them to be quite valuable to us.”

Last season’s success has already
made itself apparent in 2002, as the
veteran coach has noticed a favorable
trend in preseason practice.

“We have started out at a faster,
higher level this year,” Hathom said.
“Compared to last year at this time of
year, we’re ahead of the game because
the level of skill is better, and pretty much
everybody out there played for us or is
going to be able to play for us.”

W&L’s ultimate goal is a return trip to
the NCAA Tournament, but right now
they’re concentrating on winning the
games they need to in order to get there.

“Making it to NCAA again would
be amazing,” Perini said. “I think
we’ ve all been dreaming about it since
we went last year. But right now we
have to focus on the season and take
it one game at a time.

“We are a team with a lot of poten-
tial, and I really think that we can do
great things this year. I expect that we
will play our hearts out every game
and see where that takes us.”

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11,2002 1

Cerino said. “Ansel Sanders is certainly showing he can
compete at this level, but he still has to gain experience in
the big games. We’ll go as far as Ansel can take us this
season.”

W&L will play a ﬁrst-class schedule in 2002, as fellow
Division III stalwarts Washington, Gettysburg and
Franklin and Marshall face the Generals in March. Divi-
sion II Limestone, where Cerino and new W&L assistant
Ricky Matthews — then one of Cerino’s players — won a
national title in 2000, comes calling in May.

In the ODAC, Roanoke and defending champion
Hampden-Sydney have also garnered national attention.

“(For us) the month of March is almost like the month
of May for playoff opportunities,” Cerino said. ‘‘We’ 11 have
a real good idea of how we can compete and where we’re
going to stand nationally, and we’ll be battle-hard head-
ing into the ODAC.

“At the same time, it’s not the kind of season where
one loss or one stumble can knock you out,” he added.
“There are a lot of opportunities to compete, including
staying alive until the ODAC Tournament. So this should
be an interesting journey for a team that’s evolving.”

Tough schedule aside, Melanson and his teammates
are anxious to start the season, which begins Feb. 23 at
home against Bates.

“Our team is ﬁred up for all of our games,” he said. “At
this point of the season, the whole team is looking for-
ward to getting on the ﬁeld and proving what we can do.
Ultimately, we want the national championship. To expect
anything less would be cheating ourselves of a great op-
portunity.”

Conners concurs with Melanson’s opinion.

“It is going to take a little bit of time to make the transi-
tion from last year’s team to this one, but we do have a lot
of returning talent,” the defenseman said. “I look for our
team to receive a bid to the NCAA Tournament, and then
we’ 11 see what happens from there. We have the talent and
the coaching staff to do it, it’s up to us to get it done.”

Celica-«
The, Inside  tory  

{Rn Ilia cmtsirle, it"s. a-asy to see that: -Crslica is rac:<:*--tra-1:3:
§.ns;;JE:eel. Eiut -the real excitement is on the EasEde....under the
hrmd. Take the Cxaiicza ti’?-S-.....T<)}vtsta wa2§aa:l’witl1'Yarr:aha to
build a. 38% HF’ eragizna re«ili.nac:i at F360 R?M....e~quippe::l it
with ‘Variable Valve Tinting w'*El.—h iIn2:aEliganm“:...a f;i)I’3};.3E.f§,tZ*.f
that constantly monitors  retunea your engine far maxi-
mum ;:»erformarw:e;..a” cam with two: sets of iobes to ;:m;:av’ir.le
two ranges at ‘waive lift and daratiar: for more usa‘l;Ea horse-
power. ’§°h«:~ra~’s direct ignition far greater rallagbilim...
irédium-tipped spam plugs for reduced mairzta-naace...a

stainless steel exhaust n1anife§u:i...a \W.il1*3r~¢:€)£i1il*E?£l oil cooler.
and mated with T(2r1m:a."s  electronically-controlled
£l.£..rE£:Ii'1”t2ltliZ‘ “”$pmtshi‘Et",. you gar tra.nsmis$§ora shift switches
cm the steer‘-ing Wlt(§€.?;E..,}li5l‘ lilze Farrmsia E race cars. Sweet.

 “"“""'3°“"V°“‘*‘*‘i°"‘

I)r‘iv.ii1g as new Toyota is easier than ever -~

became new your foyeta dealer has a special callega graduate
ﬁnancing 'pregram’available that Toyota Financial Services; .
. ’ that offers it lot of 3f’&atsadvar1:i3%€:s. A V  

So as you're within 4 maths ::xfgradua£io;a.... me; ya; graatzazefa
within the past two 3raars_....Sae yaur ‘lama dpesalerlair da$aEls..- 

 

ODAC, NCAA s

