     

* rt _
£372. 755

 

 

 

 

   

 

Q 551 JAN???  t;t_x‘V‘ntn-w tamv '
V’  1"”;r{,N,_;m!‘1;,.1, ‘ : _:- p.  .  .. . .. . _ p .    H!‘ RIMFEAM ‘ H
W0.   _ _, .-‘ V, _ »-........,..«.,.,,‘ _  } 
BFA <13 PAGE 3 . 2 H .
Y  E e 2002 N  an
N E\\7 (iR<.:,n.xrz.»w:t'>N 3  L '  ““ “ ‘* Em” *“
r_>EEEAr.s (J‘\‘/TN r>Ur<m:;E. A   \l   N  OPINEONS 3
LIP Smc <I> PA(3l:j 5 \X;rggLH,-E 5
I’i1c.)‘m tfzoi 1 Ar: '1 _ _ p L,
ANN! Em mt-1.1 l‘-‘t’-2. — SPLWI 5 
DEt=EA'i (I) .l’A<:;r: 7 24/7 2
’ EVi:’.R‘x'(f)NE?. I..(}S'I'. 1'”)  PKJSA 
V (3:15, ;(jl\v’,  XX-’il1l ?vi«.‘;>;n:n*. ,I.w.'RRi’  2002

 

BY ANDREW LATIMER

1 ASSISTANT OPINIONS EDITOR

. The Contact Committee kicks off
\ 4 a new year of talks this Tuesday in
_ Lee Chapel with Amb. Edward S.
1 Walker, Jr., former American Ambas-
sador to Egypt and Israel and current

President and CEO of The Middle East
Institute .

Mr. Walker, whose experience with
foreign affairs spans over three decades,
will draw upon his years of expertise for
his speech, entitled “The Middle East:
An Insider’s Perspective.”

“The events of Sept. make issues

in the Middle East all the more impor-
tant to understand. The ambassador
regularly travels to the Middle East and
his background, especially of Egypt
and Israel, provide a great perspective
to let us know about the current situa-
tion,” said Contact president Samuel
Langholz, a senior.

The address will focus on the
United States and the role its policies
play in shaping the Middle East, as well
as the crucial decisions and events that
contributed to the attacks of Sept. 11.

Securing a speaker on Middle East-
ern has been a priority for some time.
“We’ve been trying to ﬁnd the right

DAMN, IT FEELS GOOD TO BE A PLEDGE

: Ambassador to expose Middle East politics

person to bring for as long as I’ ve been
on the committee,” stressed Langholz.

Mr. Walker’s resume is extensive,
starting with his 1967 acceptance into
the Foreign Services. Prior to hisiten—
ure as Ambassador to Israel from 1997
to 1999, he was Ambassador to the
Arab Republic of Egypt from 1994 to

1997, as well as to the United Arab
Emirates from 1989 to 1992.
Additionally, he served as Deputy
Permanent Representative of the
United States to the United Nations
with Ambassadorial Rank from 1993 to

SEE WALKER, PAGEZ

ACLJ de ends VMI

    

5

470-§*t

  

A A

I

 

 

MARKY-MARK. Freshman Noble Stafford and other Sigma Phi Ep-
silon pledges serenade hundreds of onlookers at the annual SA-
RAH lip sync fundraiser Friday night. Over forty groups partici-
pated in the event that helps fund one of the largest food pantries in
Rockbridge County. This event served a dual purpose of raising

MEG FBzRARA/ 77)eRingtumP/Ii
money for Rockbridge area hunger and allowing fraternity pledges

and sorority new members to show house pride. Washington and
Lee Dining Services helps to sponsor the event that has provided
several tons of food to area residents in past years. For more pictures
and information about lip synch 2002 turn to page 5.

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH

 Students react to foreign travel advisories

 

W&L alumnus Pat Robertson, Christian legal group support mealtime prayer

 

FIIEPHOIO

GRACE. Cadets eat after prayer, a custom that may change if the ACLU suit is successful.

BY JACK HAGEL AND SAM LAGRONE
srAEEooRREsI>oNDENrs

A legal group founded by former Christian
Coalition president Pat Robertson has offered
to support Virginia Military Institute should the
state—funded college choose to appeal a federal
court decision that last week deemed as uncon-
stitutional its supper prayer tradition.

The American Center for Law and Justice
released a statement Friday from its Virginia
Beach headquarters expressing its intention to
ﬁle a brief in federal appeals court. The group
said it is willing to represent VMI cadets who
want the prayers to continue. ‘

“The prayers do not violate the ‘constitu-
tion and are no different than the prayers that
are offered in state and federal government in-
stitutions — including Virginia’s General Assem-
bly and the U.S. Congress,” said Jay Sekulow,
chief counsel of the ACLJ.

On Thursday, U.S. District Court Judge
Norman K. Moon ruled that the dinner prayer
practice, in his opinion, compelled “students to
participate in a state—sponsored religious exer-
cise.”

VMI, upon Moon’s decision, halted the
practice. The

The case was brought by the American Civil
Liberties Union on the behalf of two cadets, Neil

- Mellen of Ranchos Palos Verdes, Calif ., and Paul

Knick of Woodbridge.

Mellen first voiced his opinion in an edito-
rial in the school newspaper. Then he approached
VMI officials, requesting cadets be exempt from
the prayer. After his requests went unheeded,
he contacted the ACLU. The cadets named VMI
Superintendent Josiah Bunting IH as the defen-
dant.

“Because the prayers are drafted and
recited at the direction of the Institute’s Su-
perintendent, the result is that government
has become impermissibly entangled with
religion,” Moon wrote in his 35-page deci-
sion.

Virginia Attorney General Jerry Kilgore re-
sponded to the decision, vowing to appeal to
the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.

“These prayers are part of VMI’s educa-
tional program and are precisely the sort of

prayers recited in the United States Military, on
ships at sea each night, and before lunch at the
United States Naval Academy. Furthermore, no
one is required to recite the prayer, bow his or
her head, or even participate in its recitation,”
Kilgore said in a statement following Thursday’s
decision.

“It is a shame,” he continued, “that while
American soldiers are fighting for our liberties
in places like Afghanistan, our young men and
women training to be soldiers and leaders at
VMI are prevented from praying for their safety
as a body.”

Mellen said it was difﬁcult to refrain from
prayer without receiving derogatory remarks
from pro-prayer cadets. When the case was
heating up last spring, Mellen, who was raised
Catholic, said he was called “the boy who hates
Jesus” by cadets supporting the prayer policy.

“I was pleased to see a strong ruling by
Judge Moon,” Mellen told the Ring—tum Phi.
“The diehards misunderstand compulsory
prayer and think it limits their freedom to pray.
The Attorney General, equating a state college
with troops in the battleﬁeld, is absurd. Troops
engage in battle under the USMJ, not civilian
law. This is ultimately a state school. The gov-
ernor is not going to callus into battle anytime
soon.”

VMI, a state school, is not under the
same guidelines as the federal service acad-
ernies.

The academies fall under the Uniformed
Code of Military Justice, a legal doctrine that
does not give military personnel the same civil
liberties protections as civilians.

VMI cadets do not make a commitment to
the armed forces when they sign on to the In-
stitute, and are not under the rules of the
UCMJ.

VMI voluntary stopped its mandatory
chapel services in 1972, in the wake of Ander-
son vs. Laird, a Washington, D.C., Circuit Court
ruling that stopped services at the federal ser-
vice academies.

This is VMI’s latest federal court case
since the 1996 U.S. Supreme Court case that
gave VMI the choice to end its 150—year-old
male—only admissions policy or lose state

Bachelors

ASSIST ANT NEWS EDITOR

This fall, 43 Washington and Lee
students attended classes and re-
ceived transfer credit in over a dozen
countries from Australia to Kenya.

The Office of International Edu-
cation, headed by Director Williarn G.
Klingelhofer, coordinates the study
abroad program. Located on the mez-
zanine level of Tucker Hall, the ofﬁce
provides information on studying,
working and volunteering abroad in
fall, winter and spring terms, as well
as the summer.

The number of students study-
ing abroad has regularly increased,
said Silvana Flinn, chair of the Study
Abroad Forum, a branch of the Stu-
dent Association for International
Learning. Study abroad opportunities
at W&L do not just include going

overseas, Flinn said. Other possibili-
ties include a study abroad slide show,
study abroad photo competition and
study abroad poster making.

This year, though, study
abroad was complicated by the
events of Sept. 11. While programs
went on, students were affected.
Junior Amina Elgouacem, who went
to France, was originally scheduled
to leave on the date, but her ﬂight
was canceled in the national ban
imposed by the Federal Aviation
Administration. She ended up leav-
ing five days later.

“I was very scared to ﬂy in light
of what had happened,” Elgouacem
said. She reasoned, however, “Some—
thing like this can’t stop people from
traveling, though. Whatever happens
is your destiny; you can’t control it.”

She believed she made the right
decision.

“Everybody there was so kind
and concerned,” she said. “People
were always asking me how every-
thing was back home, and the actual
professors involved with the study
abroad program went out of their way
to show their concern for me and make
sure I was okay.”

Junior Skye Justice went to
Kenya, where he took courses in poli-
tics while absorbing Kenya’s culture
and landscape. He also ventured to
Tanzania, meeting locals and conduct-
ing research for his frfty—page paper.

Terrorists bombed the U.S. em-
bassy in Kenya in 1998, and migh have
encountered anti-American sentiment.

“I had no problems,” Justice
said. “My host family was very con-
cerned about what had happened.
and kept asking me if I knew any-
body affected by the tragedy, and re-
assured me with their kindness.”

People he met on the street, like shop-
keepers, inquired about the situation in
America and expressed their concern.
He said there were a couple of small
demonstrations,‘ including one in
Mombassa, that worried him, but over-
all, he felt completely safe over in Africa
and did not suddenly want to return.

“In fact, I actually felt safer out there,
removedfromthechaos,thanIwouldhave
had I been in Lexington,” Justice said

And, “I did not fall behind in my
major at all,” he said. «

Elgouacem had the misfortune to
have returned on Dec. 22, the day that
alleged “shoe bomber” Richard Reid
attempted to ﬂy from Paris to Miami.

“I ended up being stranded in
[Charles] de Gaulle airport for ﬁfteen
hours while my ﬂight was delayed
again and again,” she said.

' Despite this, “I would deﬁnitely
study abroad again,” she said.

PH BY Ec 1E(y—Tl/{PHI
BACHELORS. Alex Wilkins on the block.

benefit Habitat

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFFWRITER

Two different Washington and
Lee Student auctions are taking place
this week. Habitat for Humanity spon-
sored a Bachelor Auction held imme-
diately following the annual SARAH
Lip—Sync Auction.

Habitat for Humanity is a national
organization that builds affordable
housing for needy families. The farm-
lies pay for the houses through down
payments, monthly loan payments,
and sweat equity into the house.

“Right now, we’re collecting
starting funds to begin our projects,”
said sophomore Natalie Deibel.

SEE BACHELOR, PAGE 2

    

PAGE 2

Law student found dead

Memorial service planned to honor Thomas Moore

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

First-year law student
Thomas Moore was found
dead in his Houston Street
apartment Wednesday by
two classmates concerned
about his absence from
class.

“The medical examiner
was called, but the cause of
death has not been deter-
mined,” wrote Thomas
White, director of communi-
cations, in a campus-wide
email sent Thursday.

There was no indication
that foul play was involved,
White wrote.

Associate Director of Se-
curity Stephen Tomlinson said
that the case is under investi-
gation, and could not comment.

The official medical re-
port on Moore’s death, widely

believed to be a suicide, will
be issued in a week or two.

Dean of the Law School
David Partlett did not sus-
pend classes from his office,
though professors were al-
lowed to at their discretion.

“Our thought was that it
might be better for our stu-
dents to be together in the
law school rather than home
alone,” said Associate Dean
for Student Affairs Susan
Palmer.

“We thought that
meeting classes would give
members of our community
— faculty and students —
an opportunity to talk,” she
said.

Several first year classes
were cancelled, and many
classes that did meet spent
most of their time talking
about stress, community and
priorities, Palmer said.

“We also had a first-year
class open meeting so that
students could ask ques-
tions, and volunteer sugges-
tions for the memorial ser-
vice, request resources such
as counseling center out-
reach, peer counse1ors,”,she
said.

The law school is plan-
ning a Lee Chapel memorial
service some time this week.

He had studied English as
an undergraduate at Washing-
ton and Jefferson University in
Washington, Penn.

Moore majored in
English,White wrote, and was
a member of the Beta Theta
Pi fraternit and, the school’s
literary society. Moore also
volunteered at a local home-
less mission.

There has been only one
law school suicide in the last
eighteen years, Palmer said.

 

MONDAY. JANUARY LLLOZ

 

 

ail news briefs ti.‘ '
it-lu.edu

  Allll

GENERA ‘om
W&L, Sen‘/e debut new

LEXINGTON, VA. - Donald L. McCabe, a
leading expert on collegiate honor systems, con-
cluded the inaugural session of Washington and
Lee University’s Institute for Honor Saturday
by deeming one of the nation’s strongest but
warning that rapid societal and technological
changes challenge students’ oaths of integrity.

“A major challenge. . .will be to ﬁnd ways
to respond effectively to (this) change while
maintaining the fundamental principles of honor
espoused by both Lee and Washington,” said
McCabe, a Rutgers University professor of or-
ganization management.

“A challenge worthy of the honor institute,
in my view, would be identifying strategies to

 

help W&L preserve its own tradition, while also
helping to spread the basic principles of hon-
esty and integrity beyond Lexington,” he added.

McCabe’s Jan. 19th speech before a packed
audience at the W&L School of Law brought to
a close the opening session of the University’s
Institute for Honor, ﬁnanced by $750,000 raised
by alumnus Billy Schaefer from fellow members
of the Class of 1960.

A key focus of the two—day session, which
coincided with Founders’ Day at the 253—year—
old college, was reﬁning the institute’s goals to
promote academic integrity in secondary
schools and colleges, while also emphasizing
ways that alumni can further promote integrity
in the professions and the workplace.

McCabe, who applauded these goals, be-
came intrigued with W&L’s venerable traditions
when he was director of the Center for Academic
Integrity, a group founded a decade ago by W&L
and 23 other institutions. Based at Duke Uni-
versity, the center has about 250 institutional
members, including many of the country’s emi-
nent universities.

BACHELOR from page 1

“They’re [the houses] built by W&L stu-
dents,” Deibel continued. Other people from
the community and construction professionals
will participate as well.

“I thought it was a good opportunity to
help a deserving charity,” sophomore partici-
pant Whit Whitﬁeld said

The bidding on most bachelors was in-
tense.

“I feel like a piece of meat,” exclaimed se-
nior Dave Thomhill.

The Bachelor who brought home the most
bacon was Peter Dean, who went for $70, mak-
ing his 185 lb. body the most prime cut of beef

at 38 cents per pound.

Steve Martinenza enjoyed the prospect of
being treated like a piece of meat. It feels, “pretty
damn good,” he said. “lt’s a nice change of pace.”

Not all the items up for auction were pleased
with their going price. Freshman Jack Murray,
dressed in a Village People construction worker
outﬁt, went for just $5.

“I feel pathetic,” Murray jested.

The most determined bachelor up for auc-
tion was Abram Trosky who, disappointed
with only a $15 bid, removed his shirt for the
pack of women below. He managed to triple
the bid.

WALKER from page 1

1994, Deputy Assistant to the Secretary in the
Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, Executive As-
sistant to the Deputy Secretary of State, and as
Special Assistant to the Presidents Special Rep-
resentative for the Middle East Peace Negotia-
tions from 1979 until 1981.

“I think he has an interesting perspective.
He’s seen both sides of the issue, he’s one of
the few people who’s been involved on both
sides and can give a rather unbiased judgment,”
commented junior Jenny Parks, Contact mem-
ber and family friend who invited Mr. Walker to
the campus. _

“After 9/11, I went and asked, ‘Would you
like to come speak at our school,’ and he was
all for it.”

Students enrolled in Washington and Lee’s
newly founded Politics 295B Terrorism course

Learn the fundamentals of:
- Accounting ° Marketing

° Finance

Team building

at

 
 
 
 

0 Organizational Behavior

- Hands-on market & ﬁnancial research

Effective communication & presentation skills

will all attend the event. The speech is part of a
week centered on Arab and Jewish relations.
The ambassador’s talk will be followed on
Thursday in Lee Chapel by a Special Evening
Lecture by David Shipler, noted journalist and
Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Arab and Jew.
Senior and Vice Chair for Publicity Dustin
Olson noted, “After Sept. 11, we were deeply
moved, as was everyone at the university. And
as a result, we’ve developed a lecture series that
we feel addresses the challenges facing our na-
tion at this pivotal time.”
“I think we’ve done well in hosting Amb.
Walker, who can shed light on a region that may
hold the key to many of the issues that con-
front us. From this week of speakers, hopefully
we will be enlightened as to how we can recon-
cile two histories, two religions and two truths.”

Are You a Non-Business Major? Do You Want to Improve Your Marketability?

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California, Berkeley
Intensive BASE Summer Program lS FORYOU!
July 8 -August I6, 2002

Preparing for the corporate recruiting process

For more information, visit our website at:
http:I/haas.berkeley.eduIUndergradIBASE.html

THIS oNE’s FOR YOU, KID

BLAST FROM THE PAST. Before becoming an academic powerhouse
with the highest GPA on campus, Sigma Nu was renowned for its
wild festivites. T he rollicking house partied so heartily. in fact, that it

    
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
 

M.-\R\' GUY/Ring-nmz PM
was kicked off campus in 1981. Here Sigma Nu brothers, blissfully , 
ignorant of the upcoming ejection, enjoy their basement bar and the j '
company of visiting women.

 

_.._  __,__,__,_, .,_., _,,_  _   .,_._-.._,___.__,_ *
'll1esday, Jan. 22 Thursday, Jan. 24
7:30 p.1n.~ Contact speaker. Edward 7:30 pm.— Film Society. Elia Kazan “A T
S. Walker. former ambassador to Egypt and Streetcar Named Desire." ( 1951) Troubadour '
Israel and president of the Middle East In— Cinema. 
stitute. Lee Chapel. 1
Friday, Jan. 25 '7
Today Wednesday, Jan. 23 2:00 p.m. Terrorism: An Interdisciplinary
7 p.m.—FaCu1ty Gr ant D€m0nStl‘£1ti0I1. 8 p.m.—Alcoholics Anonymous meet— Perspective Series. “Middle East Terrorism,” ’
ROCk€f6116r/Clllpeper Faculty Gram PI‘€SCI1- ing. Fairfax Lounge. All W&L students, fac- David Shipler. Rm. A214, Science Center.
tation. “Vid€0-Téxt-Based CUll111'€11 L€£1I11i11g.,” ulty/ staff, and the Lexington community are 7:30 p.m. Film Society. Elia Kazan Fes- A) '

Prof. Greta McCaughrin, German—Russian
Dept., W&L. TMC, Tucker Hall 408.

 

Mistakes ?

Unlikely,
but if. . .

email
phi@ wlu.edu
and join

so it’ll
never

happen
again

 

 

Arts, Sciences, and Engineering students will beneﬁt from this rigorous,
six-week summer curriculum that wili include lectures, case studies,
company visits, guest speakers and ongoing interaction with students
from over 20 ofvthe best universities in the world.

 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

tival continues. “On the Waterfront” (1954).
Troubadour Cinema.

welcome. Coffee is provided.

  

 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

  

_ _"e_c iorki lo

.\...\

 
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
  

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

         

 
 
 
  
 
    

  

 
 

 
 

   
 
 

    

 

  

’-

9+3‘

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002



Don’t let the C-school
violate Graham—Lees

W&L’s campus is littered with construc-
tion debris. Cranes swing ominously over piles
of rubble. Stemmons Plaza is cut by chain-link
fences. A gutted Reid Hall perches atop a dy-
namited hillside.

This desolation, however, only foreshad-
ows the physical and intellectual destruction
to come when the Ernest Williams II School
of Commerce breaks ground on its proposed
expansion.

The unchecked proliferation of affiliate
classrooms in the Science and University Cen-
ters made it inevitable that administrators would
attempt to isolate all vocational training in one
building.

The ﬁrst plan was to convert the Co-op to
C-school ofﬁces. This plan was shelved, how-
ever. Perhaps because the snack spot didn’t
offer T-3 lines, satellite hook-ups, or sufficiently
luxurious carpeting.

A second suggestion was adding an extra
ﬂoor to the Tool School. This was scrapped
because no W&L building is supposed to stand
taller than Washington Hall’s eponymous statue.

This is regrettable. Erecting a Skyscraper
of Greed would aptly symbolize the potency of
our growing ranks of marketing and business
administration majors. Truly, their numbers are
legion.

What is alarming, however, is the latest plan
to construct an annex on the back of the cur-
rent C-school building.

This addition would make extend danger-
ously close to Graham Lees. For goodness’s
sakes, freshmen innocently sleep yards away.
Do we really want a C-school protrusion ex-
tending between the twin legs of the Graham-
Lees dormitory?

Better instead to hock our heritage.

Rather than play around with a satellite
building, extra ﬂoors, or a threatening annex,
we need to give the School of Commerce a
seat worthy of its august academic merit.

Newcomb Hall should be dedicated to ac-
counting, Payne for economics, Robinson for
public policy, Tucker for politics, and Washing-
ton for the revered science of management.

 UOTE OF THE WEEK:

0 THE RING-THAT PHT

PINIONS

Cuban winter kind to captives

Guantanamo guests
get what they deserve

The newest front in the war on
terrorism is the battle that interna-
tional human rights organizations
are waging against the Marines at
the Guantanamo Bay naval base in
Cuba. These Marines have been

charged with guarding hundreds of _

the most dangerous and senior al-
Qaeda members who have been sent
to the base for interrogation. Their
mission has been a success, as the
FBI has reported that the informa-
tion gleaned from these terrorists
has prevented terror attacks.

The attacks from human rights
groups have been charges that the
al—Qaeda captives are not being
treated humanely or as the Geneva
Convention states that they, as pris-
oners of war should be treated. What
right does the Red Cross have to com-
plain anyway? They took months to
distribute funds to the victims of the
9/ l l attacks, but have spoken up im-
mediately to condemn our treatment
of the prisoners.

The discrepancy is that the U.S.
has not classified these men as pris-
oners of war, but rather as “unlaw-
ful combatants.” The military was
right to do so since the Geneva con-
vention cites those who should be
classified as prisoners of war as hav-
ing a fixed distinctive sign recog-
nizable at a distance, i.e. wearing a
uniform, and conducting their op-
erations in accor-
dance with the laws
and customs of war.
In Afghanistan a tur-
ban, ﬂowing robes
and a beard don’t count as a uni-
form and ﬂying airplanes into civil-
ian building is most certainly not in
accordance with the customs of war.

Vice President Cheney said it
bestwhen speaking in Cincinnati on
Friday, “They are probably getting
better than they deserve.” He’s
more than right. These men have
declared war not only on America,
but on Western civilization itself.
They simply do not deserve to be
treated to the advantages of the
culture they wish to destroy.

  

BRETTT. KIRWAN
OPINIONSEDITOR
EMAIL i<IR\Y/ANE@ww.EDU

Moreover, they have chosen to
ﬁght this war in a cowardly, dastardly,
evil fashion. They hide in caves and
strike at our homes, caring not
whether the target is man or woman,
adult or child, declared combatant or
innocent civilian. Why should they
be granted the respect and concern
civilized people deserve when they

ﬁght like barbarians

 THE AISLE and treat women like
BRETTT. KIRWAN ‘04_

common dogs?
Nonetheless,
the treatment the
captives have received has been
more than adequate and certainly
better than what they enjoyed in the
caves of Tora Bora. Each has his
own eight by eight foot cell, where
he can seek shelter from the sun and
enjoy the warm Caribbean breeze.
They have regular hot meals and are
led in prayer by a Muslim Marine
chaplain. The sick receive medical
care and a number have undergone
surgery to repair broken bones or
clean gunshot wounds. For the first
time in years, each is clean shaven.

CDUKIEBYWWW/.0WCUM
INHUMANE? This photo sparked protest against poor treatment ofal-Qaeda captives.

As Sec. of Defense Rumsfeld put
it, “To be in . . . sunny, beautiful
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is not inhu-
mane treatment.”

Complaints about the captives’
treatment reached a fever pitch
when a photo was released show-
ing captives in orange jumpsuits
kneeling on the ground in leg irons.
Amnesty International claimed that
this and other practices are “clas-
sic techniques employed to ‘break’
the spirit of individuals ahead of
interrogation.” Could it be that
these men who have given their
lives to a religious war against “The
Great Satan” need to be subdued
to ensure the safety of the Marines
who guard them? Security con-
cerns justifiably override attention
to the comfort of captives whose
last bed was a cold stone floor.

Hopefully, human rights
groups will find time in their busy

schedule of coddling terrorists to’

comfort the fatherless children
and widows who have truly suf-
fered inhumane treatment.

 

“MEsMER1ziNG.”

—OGLED-EYED FRESHMAN
AT LIP SYNCH VERY IMPRESSED WITH
SCANTILY—CLAD CHI—O?S

Matthew B. McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Latrina Stokes
Imran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan V
Andrew Latimer
Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Alison M. Trinidad
Mary E Guy

Meg Ferrara

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

THE

Editor—in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

 

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor
Photographer

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager

, Advertising Managers

Internet Editor

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-turn Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. [All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Divisive BFA defeats own purpose

To quote the Sept. 24, 2001 issue of the Phi, “Virginia
Military Institute cadets attacked two Washington and
Lee students and one alumnus early Saturday, Sept. 15 at
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, witnesses said.” As a result of
this incident, Scott Hook ’00 received a fractured jaw and
lost a tooth, and later that night, another PiKA brother
lost two front teeth when plain—clothed VMI cadets
assaulted him behind the Beta Theta Pi house.

Other violent incidents involving non-W&L students
this academic year include young Lexington residents
attacking a dorm counselor at a fraternity party and young
Lexington residents causing a ﬁght at Sigma Chi’s Pole
House.

In last week’s- edition of the Phi, an article about the
newly founded Black Female Alliance mentioned an
incident in which three female W&L
students and their friends, all black, were 
asked to show their ID cards and were
told that their entrance could pose an
insurance risk. The BFA cites this
incident, along with a Halloween night incident where a
W&L student entered the Co-op dressed in blacldace,
understandably offending several students, as their reason
for being. Their mission: increasing unity and diversity at
W&L.

Unfortunately for the BFA, their first example of racism
and discrimination is groundless in light of the facts.
Considering the altercations I listed above, there is clearly
a legitimate security threat posed by non-W&L students
attending our parties, unless they are the invited guests
of W&L students. Outsiders pose a statistical risk that
must be dealt with in order to ensure the safety of W&L
students.

In fact, shortly after the aforementioned attack at
PiKA, I was attempting to enter a party with several friends
of mine, who were white and looked like “typical” W&L

  
  

students, and we were all asked to show our ID cards.
One of my friends questioned this, and was told that they
were just making sure everyone at the party was from
W&L. We were welcomed and nothing more was made of
our having to show our cards, even though that’s not
exactly common procedure.

The fact is, these black female students are in the
minority at W&L. Not just in terms of the student body as
a whole, but also in the fraternity system, where black
members can unfortunately only be counted on one hand.
Therefore, black students at W&L are generally not a
familiar face in the fraternity scene, and consequently,
have a much higher chance of being perceived as outsiders
if someone doesn’t recognize them.

According to the former risk manager of one W&L
fraternity, IFC rules dictate that all
fraternity parties must have stated guest
lists. This could be as simple as saying
that all W&L students are invited, which
is generally the case and is a big part of
the reason why our Greek system is so wonderful. In
enforcing the guest list, fraternities have the duty of
making sure that uninvited guests are not present at the
parties. The brother monitoring the door at the fraternity
party where the three students and their friends were not
allowed obviously did not recognize them, or he would
have let them in. By asking for their ID, he simply veriﬁed
their presence on the guest list, a perfectly reasonable
request.

The BFA also alleges that these individuals were told
they could pose an insurance risk. The key word here is
could, because, according to the risk manager, insurance
policies do not cover accidents, such as tripping down
stairs, if illegal activity was the cause of them—i.e.,

RIGHT WING RESPONSE
MRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05

SEE BFA, PAGE 4

PAGE 3

Bush won’t report
real state of Union

This Tuesday, President George W. Bush will de-
liver the first State of the Union address of his presi-
dency. Just as any politician would, and should, he will
capitalize on the successes of his first year in ofﬁce.

To ﬁnd these successes, Bush’s focus will of course
turn to Afghanistan. He will speak on the “war on ter-
rorism,” what America has done to help, our militaiy’s
strength and dominance in this situation, and the relief
efforts that are going towards helping the new Afghan
government back on its feet.

Ifhe is feeling particularly conﬁdent, he will speak
of the security measures that have been put into place
by his always—controversial Attorney General John
Ashcroft. Security measures, breaches of constitu-
tional rights. .. same
thing, right?

But, what is the LEFT OF CENTER
real state of the

__ NICK B_Al_\4SEY ‘O3
union? That is the

real question, not what is the state of Afghanistan.

First of all, the economy is a mess. In January
of 2001, America had a surplus of $281 billion that
was projected as a $5.6 trillion surplus over the
next decade. We currently have a deficit of $106
billion. But hey, next year the deficit is only pro-
jected to be $80 billion.

Moreover, Social Security has been raided of $845
billion with its trust fund money being spent every
year until 2010. This is after a speech in March where
Bush said, “Another priority is retirement systems of
Americans. And so the budget I set up says that pay-
roll taxes are only going to be spent on one thing, and
that’s Social Security.”

The use of Social Security’s funds catmot be com-
pletely blamed on the events of September 11"‘. By
August of 2001, the Congressional Budget Ofﬁce al-
ready had released information stating that under
Bush’s budget the government has already due to steal
$9 billion from Social Security.

While many Republicans on Capital Hill say that
Bush cannot be blamed for these economic problems,
Bush did promise “we can proceed with tax relief with-
out fear of budget deﬁcits, even if the economy soft-
ens,” in his remarks to the campus of Western Michi-
gan University last March.

All these ﬁgures, released from the White House
or the CBO, show a grim economic outlook that has not
been seen since 1992.

Here in Virginia, where the state budget is al-
ready in trouble because of irresponsible spend-
ing and cutting by the previous Governor, James
Gilmore, unemployment is up by nearly two per-
cent and Bush’s economic stimulus, plan would
cost the Commonwealth $140 million.

But the economy is not the only issue that needs
attention. Women have not faired extremely well in the
workplace under Bush. In the first three quarters of
Bush’s administration the median wage for women in
the work place fell from $508 a week to $507 a week.
Men however enjoyed a median a wage hike from $668
to $674, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

So what has Bush planned to do to help? He will
close down ten regional offices of the Labor
Department’s Women’s Bureau, as they are not funded
under the 2003 budget. The eighty-year old
organization’s only surviving ofﬁce will be the Wash-
ington D.C. Bureau according to the January 8, 2002,
edition of the Boston Globe.

Minorities will also find themselves harder hit
by the cuts made to Social Security under Bush.
Statistics in the Washington Post found minority
workers were the hardest hit by the loss of jobs
after 9/ 11. The reason cited was that many immi-
grants and minorities find work in service indus-
tries like hotels and restaurants. These industries
were the hardest hit after the terrorist attacks.

But, to make matters worse, the more than 4.5 mil-
lion African Americans and 2 million Hispanics receiv-
ing Social Security beneﬁts will be hurt the most. The
President says that his tax cuts will help Americans hit
hardest by the current recession. It is, however, diffi-
cult to say how tax cuts will help those that are not
currently making any income.

Lastly, environmental policy. This card-carry-
ing member of Greenpeace happily gave his monthly
donation to an organization fighting Bush at every
turn on his proposal to drill for oil in the Alaskan
Wildlife Reserve. The lift on emission bans under
Bush also still needs attention.

But, like many pressing domestic issues, their
failures have been over-shadowed by the war and
humanitarian efforts abroad. Can you say war and
humanitarian efforts together like that? It sounds
a bit strange.

Do not be fooled by Bush’s Tuesday night address.
The state of the Union is actually quite worrisome.

 

. ‘ akin “D nk 1 h d ’t ,, .. . ,, , . ,,
“Dressing up.” ‘P1edgti:$Se1Ve‘: asses of 62:6 ifI;:?S:rveVWOup0,r,l Humihation of pledges. ‘Winning.
--A (It B nshoof, ‘O5 ' _ V ‘ ' --R Lgﬁn ,‘()2 --Caroline McKinney, ‘04
U By C --Marshall Woodworth, ‘02 —K1mBu1ka. 04 ya" 6

 

 
 

 

BFA from page 3

underage drinking. However, these policies
are in effect if the drinkers were of legal
age, that is, 21 years old. The brothers moni-
toring the door did not know the identities
of the individuals involved, let alone their
ages, and therefore had doubly good cause
to verify their identity in order to protect
themselves and the guests present at the
party. After all, if, despite the many ways
one can get to know people at W&L—go—
ing to class, walking along the Colonnade,
sitting in the Co—op, eating in the D—hall,
and particularly for fraternities, reading the
face book——someone is not recognized, then
in the eyes of the people at the door, there
is a high probability that he is an outsider.
By asking for ID, they are acting prudently
and in the best interests of everyone.
This is known in simpler terms as profil-
ing. While some may be vehemently against
it, the fact is, when an incident has occurred
that justiﬁes increased vigilance, the easiest
and most effective way to go about this is by
singling out those who pose the greatest sta-
tistical threat. In light of the Sept. 11 tragedy,
airport security workers have stepped up their
security measures in particular against those
who pose the greatest statistical likelihood of
being terrorists: young males of Middle East-
ern origin. Few would dispute the validity of
this practice, considering that everyone in-
volved in the Sept. 11 attacks fits this profile.
Similarly, after the Oklahoma City bombing in
1995, law enforcement ofﬁcials would have
been perfectly in the right if they had increased
their surveillance of white supremacist groups.
Therefore, the BFA’s use of this example
is completely unjustified and, in fact, attempts
to paint as racist an incident that is perfectly
within the lines of IFC rules. If the BFA would
like to petition the IFC to change its rules so
that any old Joe can enter the fraternity par-
ties without being questioned, they can.
Additionally, the BFA is an inherently ex-
clusionist group. In theory, by not being black
and female, the vast majority of W&L students
are not eligible to join the group. The BFA’s
stated purpose of unity and diversity is de-
feated by their own name! The group’s racial
and gender makeup must change drastically, if
they wish to achieve their stated goals.
Furthermore, the BFA has clearly plagia-
rized the ideas and methodologies of other
campus groups like PRIDE and MSA, in what
appears to be the vain hope of one—upping

BFA seeks separasm not olidarity

      

them. What don’t they understand about the
fact that by being an exclusive group, they
are as guilty of discrimination and racism as
the people they aim to slander? They may use
pretty language and inclusive terms in their
propaganda, but if you look carefully, this is a
group of ﬁve women who are trying to tackle
the entire campus, and nothing more. They
talk of collaboration, but in reality, they want
it to be all about them. Determined? Deﬁnitely.
Courageous? Perhaps. Realistic? Absolutely
not. The BFA would be better advised to en-
courage minorities to integrate more into the
W&L community of their own accord, ap-
proaching others without preconceived no-
tions or skeptical attitudes——however sub-
conscious they may be~and joining them.
Instead of attempting to needlessly perpetu-
ate the myth that blacks and whites are any
different, and feeding off this fear it generates
in minorities, they should take the moral high
ground and work for genuine racial harmony
through sharing interests and common goals,
not generating an atmosphere of discontent
and mistrust. Shame on them.

The BFA also aims to establish a sepa-
rate, university governing body to hear and
settle accusations of racial discrimination, simi-
lar to the Student-Faculty Hearing Board,
which deals with accusations of sexual mis-
conduct. There is absolutely no need to es-
tablish a separate body, since one of the best
parts about W&L student government is that
it is easily understood and its members are

MONDAY, IANUARY 28, 2002

COUKIEW or WW/W.BIATt/D1EXU(3B.EDU

THE ORIGINAI; Perhaps these founders of the Black Studies Dept. at UCSB inspired the founders ofVV 8:115 BFA.

very accessible. As soon as we start creating
more forms of government on this campus,
we run the risk of deteriorating this positive
quality of W&L. Furthermore, federal law al-
ready prohibits discrimination in any form, and
W&L already has the mechanisms in place to
deal with accusations of discrimination. A new
governing body would be redundant, and one
wonders if perhaps the BFA is seeking to make
itself a governing body of the university.
While the virtues of genuine diversity are
very real—a tolerant society made up of indi-
viduals who can work well together despite
their varied backgrounds is the democratic
ideal—it is highly unlikely that we will ever
achieve this at W&L, nor should it be our
goal. While it is imperative that the university
should continue to recruit and admit qualiﬁed
minority students—heck, I’m a minority—it
is also of importance that these students fit
into the typical W&L profile, which is to say,
someone who enjoys working hard, reveres
our honor system, and is interested in living
and continuing over 250 years of our tradi-
tion. Race, gender, religion, and various other
“diversity” factors are not a part of this equa-
tion, and nor should they be. W&L is a spe-
cial place for one reason: its stellar academic
reputation, superb honor system, friendly and
trusting environment, and lively social life all
work well together. None of these concepts
involve any notion of “diversity” factors.
False diversity will only serve to fracture the
bond that holds W&L together so well.

 

Cover the campus for Washington and Lee's paper of record

Join the staff at one of its weekly meetings, held in the offices of
Thirty—one Washington Street every Monday at 5:05.

69

 V

7.

 

Kate

from your friends,
HRH, BK, MM, & AL

 

4'12:-..  .. ‘ . -2. . ‘
.. : ; (n;_i..d.. _. _»t.,~§.<.-.~e_.«v_'xr_,r

Ei§§P§iiEf§;S€3 *  *  RQASTEB COFE%si‘? *  ”i‘F;;A$
53 WEST W.A8HlZN£3”¥l0ﬁ  * LEKINGTOR '* 4 

For some reason, i.e., the famed Pi Phi
frat Artie—Braces-Off Party, a slew of
graduates rolled into Lexington this week-
end. It’s funny, but a lot of them slipped
beneath my radar when they went here,
but whenever I see them back in school,
you’d think it was the second coming of
Christ.

So ensued the mindless babble oth-
erwise known as social chitchat, begin-
ning, of course, with “So what are you
doing now that you’re
out in the proverbial
‘Real World’?” And to
which one responded,
“I’m so jealous of you
right now. I’d give my left arm to be back
in college again.”

Compounded by my parents’ con-
stant inquires of the “what the hell are
you going to do with a double major in
English and Theater after school?” per-
suasion, seeing all these out-of-place
faces just aggravated my contemptuous
feelings toward life after W&L.

At the risk of sounding cliche, and
it’s a pretty big risk, I feel like I was cook-
ing Easy Mac in a micro-fridge microwave
in Graham-Lees just yesterday. And to
think I have only a year and half left...
the mere thought garners sheer terror.

So this got me thinking. I feel like
there are some certain things I should do
before I cash in my college chips. In no
specific order, the top 10 things I aim to
accomplish before graduation:

1.) Spend 24 straight hours in
Walmart. It’s open all day, seven days a
week. That’s definitely something I
should be capitalizing on. I would have
chosen Waffle House (or as my faithful
companion refers to it, “The House That
Wafﬂe Built”) but that might induce the
adoption of the phrase, “The Senior 50.”
Similar to, but much worse, than the
Freshman 15.

2.) Go to Fiji. I feel that might be an
untapped resource. Perhaps because
it’s a little farther than my lazy legs will
carry me, but I’m well into my junior year,
and still have not set foot inside their
house.

3.) Go 24 hours without logging in
face time at the Cooperational Facility
of Glory. Given my track record, this

   

ORTHERNER’S EXPOSURE
. 

Pre-graduation must-do’s explained

Some good and not-so-good goals for those facing the outside world

might err on the side of impossible, but
that which does not kill us makes us
stronger.

4.) Avoid the Junior/Senior party at
Zollman stereotype, marked by under-
classmen coming out to nearly gone se-
niors with “what they really think of
them.” It’s justlike what Michael said in
‘My Best Friend’s Wedding,’ “Kimmy
says to say what you feel right when
you think it.” Good 01’ Kimmy.

5.) Do something
completely selﬂess that
will never go on a resume,
and will simply better me
as a person.

6.) Drive the Live Drive Van. It’s one
thing to sober drive because you’re in
the comfort of your SUV. It’s another
thing to drive that monster of a truck
around and instantly be rendered as the
metaphorical oasis in a desert. It’s like a
collegiate soccer-morn/dad role-playing.

7.) Write a paper a long time before it’s
due. This might be ever harder than #3.

8.) Abandon high maintenance ten-
dencies, and take advantage of the wealth
of outdoors activities.

9.) Watch a sports event in its en-
tirety. I’m not sure whether this is the
product of Attention Deficit Disorder or
what, but I’ll get all excited once I re-
solve to go to a game, and then after-
I’m not even kidding— roughly 3.71
minutes, I get restless. I think when I
execute this fine goal, I’m going to go

the whole nine yards and paint my face 5

and stuff.

10.) Write with wild disregard for pub-
lic reception. I think is why I would never
be a good journalist. I’m way too con-
cerned with how I’m perceived. And my
sister always says to me, “Hey, I’d rather
have the public hiss than yawn.”

It’s not too daunting a list. I mean,
maintaining a working GPA while engaged
in all the aforementioned activities might
throw a monkey wrench in my social com-
mitments, but I feel like it’d be worth it to
graduate without regret.

I don’t know if I could live happily
with myself if I never spent a day in a
strange superstore and continued to do
papers at the last minute. The trials and
tribulations of an overzealous columnist.

  SATcIaisses
are filling fast!

LSAT Super Prep at W&L

starts February 26

space is limited ll

    Call NOW to reserve your spot

(Ask for course code LSCV2301)

Caller visit us onllne today to enroll!

    

1-Bllil-llllll’-TEST

kaptest.com '

‘LSAT is a regstered tradematlt at the  School admission 00-mail.

    

OLSAOOZKO

  Test Prep, Admissions and Guidance. For life.

}

} J

 

  
 

  
   

MATIHEWCDURSEN &L‘AIHHz1NEGUY I
W&Lm3E.Drr0Rs
FMAH:(DURSEI\I1\A@W[U.E1)U8(GLJYC@W[UE)U

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002

LIPSYNCH 2002. ONCEAGAIN
WASANASIOUNDIAGSLAIEX;
\X/AS!-[E\'GID!\'A\IDIi£STLDB\TS
RAm>IH0LsAN13soFDouAKsroR
SARAH. (STLDENTSAGAINST
Roo<BRu3cEAREAHum£R),As
\vr1LAsATmNDa3ANsHoWmAns
AL\msHuMoRomTH1sym’s
WIIVNBGWI-RET]-iEMK)iAH.
JAGGON DANG§?SOFKAPPAAU’HA
TH1:rA(Bo1ToM mam). THEFIRST
RU!\T\IE{S—UP\)VEREQUlNQ/SI’R]I\I(B
AM)mELADi£s0PFoURmAY
(ABOVE)\V}~lOI’£RK)RMP1)ATRIBUIE
TOAAUYAH. THESEQOND
RUN\JI-RS—LT’Wl§§ETPIEKr\I’I’A
DammzmwNcUNsamAm.

 

PHOTOS av MEG FERRARA AND
Mm G uv/ T/7e Ring—tum P/Ji

PAGE 6

BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

Black Hawk Down may be the
most thou ght-provoking and gut-
wrenching ﬁlm that will come out this
year. It’s early in 2002, but I have to
say that by next December, this ﬁlm
will remain one of the year’s best, if
not the best. A mix of action, emotion,
and history, Black Hawk Down held
me captive for its entirety. You carmot
miss this ﬁlm.

In the fall of 1993, a group of 120
elite U. S. Army Delta Force and Army
Ranger infantry units were dropped
into downtown Mogadishu, Somalia.
What was expected to be a routine
mission to capture two lieutenants of
a powerful local warlord became an
unexpected battle against nearly 3,000
militia ﬁghters. After two black hawk
helicopters were gunned down in the

   
   

AMH<IcANSoiimsDmri>mniEBHAwKIiniOOrIniTOHGrrwSOMAin

PPUIOGXJRIBYOFHFIE//WWW.l<ﬂ1E1MOVlB.0)WMOVES/AKIK1.l3/l578.mML

city, a routine mission became a
struggle to leave no man behind.
Directed by the illustrious Ridley
Scott, Black Hawk Down is the most
accurate depiction of modern warfare I
have seen in ﬁlm. Scott’s direction and
camera work is amazing, as he brings
the audience into the confusion and
surrealism of battle. Scott has solidiﬁed
himself as a master of tension and
sound. I felt as if I was in the black
hawk as it crashed to earth or beside
the soldiers as he decided his next
move. Hans Zimmer’s astounding
soundtrack brings moviegoers into the
world of Eastern Africa and into the
mindset of American soldiers.

Stars Josh Hartnett, Ewan
McGregor, and Tom Sizemore play
honest, American heroes with humility
and compassion. Their work is
unpretentious and direct, and they
provide the audience with an honest

i‘Black Hawk Down’ can’t be missed

expression of what it means to be an
American soldier. It’s not about
politics or ideology, but protecting the
guy next to you.

Although I found the ﬁlm exciting
and it’s depth and compassion
moving, I felt that Scott did not give a
strong enough explanation of why the
Somalis fought against us. Scott’s
main intention appeared to be an
explanation the reasons why soldiers
do what they do, and in that he
succeeded.

I left the theater emotionally drained,
wondering if everyone else who had
seen this film with me felt the way I
did. You can’t afford to miss this ﬁhn.
It’s not simply about an incident in 1993
that left 19 American soldiers dead and
dozens wounded, but an explanation
of the dynamics of friendship, heroism,
and duty among men who ﬁght and
die for what they believe in.

 

One of the neat things about VMI
is that our language doesn’t change.
I’m not taking about the swearing that
we dish from family size cartons
lodged in our cabin fever brains. I
mean words and phrases that only
exist in our own little world.

While the outside goes through

. iteration after iteration of “cool”

(dope, ﬂy, rad, giiarly), we still have
the same terms that cadets coined
generations ago. For example we call
shoes low—quarters. Beds to us are
“racks.” Our starched white pants are
called ducks, and so on. When we
get in a group we pull bizarre, archaic
term after tenn in conversation. To us,
its a tie that binds. To others, it’s
obnoxious. People around us get
whiplash from rolling their eyes.

It starts when a cadet first enters
VlVlI from the real world he or she is
thrust into the entirely new, irregular,
illogical jumble of jargon I call Institute-
ese.

The first thing a new cadet leams
is the title he or she will be addressed
as for the next six to seven months:
Rats. No one knows why we call them
rats (er, somebody probably knows.
And that old alum will no doubt e-
mail me, inform me of my stupidity.
Then this whole paragraph will seem
useless, just like prom night, which is
another colunm all together) or what
it has to do with the military, other
than in sometimes you have to fight
them for food in the trenches. My
foreign language professor suspects

  The guy next door: V 
Breaking the language barrier

VBY SAM LAGRONE/STAEE CORRESPONDENT

that it may come from the French term
for shaved, referring to the strict
stubble standard we enforce, but I
wasn’t really paying attention. I was
still tying to convert the price of a
wheel of Camembert from francs into
dollars in my head.

The language that you pick up as
a Rat carries over to the rest of your
time at VMI. On post we live our life
here through acronyms. Everything
breaks down into a two or three letter
treatment. In the morning we go to
B.R.C.(Breakfast Roll Call), marching
behind our CO (Commanding Officer),
to grab some S.O.S. (Slop on a
Shingle), and maybe wash it down
with some O.J. We do the same thing
for lunch (D.R.C.) and dinner (S.R.C.).
S o m e t i m e s ,
though, we get a
wild hair and slip
over to the P.X.
(Post Exchange)
and grab a B.L.T.
or a P.B. and J.
But that’s only
after we make it down to the Q.M.D.,
assuming we have C.Q. for C.C.T.,
which would totally rule, right?

For one of our “hops” (a school
dance, usually with some sideshow
attractions) we had a comedian trained
in the Seinfield-ian school of
observational humor. He was
advertised as a big hit on college
campuses around the country and
one of our alphabet organizations -
the cadet program board, or C.P.B. —

THE LANGUAGE THAT YOU
PICK UP AS A RAT CARRIES
OVER To THE REST OF YOUR
TIME AT VMI

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002

 
 

thought he would be a good addition
to the bill. His bit started out with
material like: “What about these
sorority girls?” and “Man, I can never
figure out what to wear to class.”

The room went silent. We just
stared. Okay, I think one guy blinked.
Chirp. Chirp. Captain Hilarious had to
think fast. And in a spectacular comic
triple—lutz, he recalled his tour of the
campus and started spitting our jargon
back at us. “So this guy starts talking
to me about low quarters. I look
around and don’t see any quarters,
must less scrimpy midget ones. Then
he tells me he’s gonna go to the rack.
What rack? Like a spice rack? Is there
a place to get some bay leaves in every
military school? Hey, it’s been great
playing here, I’m
gonna go see if I
can feed some of
these ducks
everyone’s talking
about.”

It wasn’t
funny at the time,
let alone in retrospect. But at that
moment, he had tapped into how wacky
we sound to the rest of the world. What
sounds normal to us is a little kooky on
the outside. So please bear with us, I
have to go rack until C.Q.R.B. I’ll
probably hit the books until the first
O.C.M.N.I. check runs. Oh, and keep
your eyes peeled for the O.D.  and e-
mail me at lagronesr@mail.virii.edu if
you see the O.G., but only if he’s
“certiﬁed to bone.”

Plentiful piles of pulchritudinous pancakes pander to pupils’persnickety palettes

BY CATHERINE GUY

\l(/&LIEE EDITOR

When the prospect of one too many D-hall brunches
starts to get you down, don’t despair. A few miles east of
here on Route 1 1, or at 2809 North Lee Highway to be precise,
lies a lovely altemativez Aunt Sarah’s Pancake House. Con-
veniently located on the grounds of the Lexington
Travelodge, Aunt Sarah’s serves a tempting array of tasty
treats. Their breakfast offerings, particularly pancakes and

Cancun, Jamaica,

Best Parties,
Best Hotels,
Best Prices!
Group Discounts,

Space is limited!

1-800-234-7007

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Bahamas, & Florida.

Group organizers travel free!
Hurry up & Book Now!

WWW.CIlC1lCSSSl1I'IlIIlCI‘IOU1'S.COIl’l

omelets are among the rriore popular items served at this estab-

lishment.

This Saturday, a large group of my friends and I attended

brunch. Our waitress was friendly and accommodating, and
as soon as she saw the size of our party she opened the
banquet room to provide us with a larger table. The decor of
the dining rooms is adorable, with country ﬂair and a gift shop
specializing in local knick-knacks. Among one of the rriost
evident examples of Aunt Sarah’s personality is the menu,
which is decorated with various amusing pictures and clever

*Fraternities*
*Sororities*

*Clubs*

*Student Groups*

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this
semster with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com
three hour fundraising
event. Does not involve
credit card applications.)
Fundraising dates are filling
quickly, so call today!
Contact
Campusfundraiser.com at
(888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

  

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 26 - July 27, 2002

Are you looking for a great chance to be a
mentor and to experience working with high
school students while staying at W&L for the
month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting four
week academic program for approximately 150
rising high school seniors. We are looking for
responsible students to help guide participants
and to plan extracurricular activities such as
talent shows, lip syncs, weekend hikes, trips to
Goshen and more.

captions describing the food. The service was a bit slow,
despite the friendly attitude. Even our drinks took a signiﬁ-
cant amount of time in delivery. Being a native New Yorker, I
ﬁnd myself to be particular about the speed of service.

The food, however, was worth waiting for. I ordered a west-
ern omelet, which came with silver dollar pancakes and hash
browns. It was an enonnous amount of food, and was sold for
the surprisingly affordable price of $6.50. All of the food was
perfectly prepared, and the hash browns were quite possibly
the best I’ve ever had. The pancakes were light and ﬂuffy,

 

individually.

while.

      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
     
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
 
    
   

with a delicious ﬂavor. They were described as small, but
were a perfectly appropriate size. The Omelet was also su-
perb, with all components well—cooked and balanced in ﬂa-
vor. After we ate, the waitress gave us the bill with all of the
items listed separately, making it easy for each of us to pay

Overall, Aunt Sarah’s is a wonderful place for a morning
meal anytime of the day. The food and service are both warm
and satisfying, and the travel and wait will be well worth your

 

 

Qt

7+9-4,

 

TH: R§?.’*éiC_e»"i"l...=‘it«'i' Ft-II

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002

Loss is 7th straight for the
Generals, all in ODAC play

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team couldn’t have come
much closer to putting another vic-
tory in the books this week.

But a one-point road loss to Emory
and Henry and an overtime home loss
to Roanoke left the Generals (4-14, 2-
1 1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference)
in the midst of a seven—game losing
streak.

“You’re going to win some and
lose some, and sometimes you’ve got
to learn how to win those games,”
W&L coach Jeff Lafave said after
Saturday’s 76-69 loss to Roanoke. “It’s
another growing experience for a
bunch of young kids.

“I told the guys that if our attitude
and effort remain the same, we’re go-
ing to be OK.”

W&L began the week at home
against Randolph—Macon, then the
N o. 1—rar1ked team in NCAA Division
IH. Despite being tied 22-22 at halftime,
the Generals couldn’t keep pace with
the Yellow Jackets after the break, and
the visitors emerged with a 62-39 win.

W&L toppe

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

After a ﬁve-game winning streak
turned their season around, the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s basketball
team ran into the roughest stretch of
its schedule this week.

After an overtime loss at Roanoke
on Sunday, the Generals (8-9, 6-7 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference) fell to
the top two teams in the conference:

Guilford at home on Wednesday and

Bridgewater on the road Saturday.
W&L’s struggles against the

J Quakers were primarily at the offen-

sive end. Although senior center
Megan Babst recorded 18 points and
10 rebounds, classmate Jessica Mentz
was just 3—of—l0 from the ﬂoor for nine
points.

Freshman Bethany Dannelly, the
ODAC leader in assists, had just two
while turning the ball over 10 times. As

a team, W&L committed 33 turnovers. 1

But despite 19 percent shooting
from the ﬁeld in the first half, the Gen-
erals’ defense kept them in the game,

1 and Guilford managed just a 20-13 lead

at halftime.

“The first half was a little dismal,
to say the least, but we still had 20
minutes left to go,” W&L coach Janet
Hollack said. “Defensively, we were
doing a good job on that end. As far
as offense goes, we weren’t able to
handle the pressure.

“We knew coming in that Guilford

J was a pressure-packed team,” she

added. “You try to prepare for that,
but sometimes it’s hard to adjust to
that when you see it in live action.”

 

Sophomore Hamill Jones was the
story in Wednesday’s 76-75 defeat at
Emory and Henry. Jones set a school
record for accuracy by hitting l5—of-
16 ﬁeld goals, ﬁnishing with a career-
high 32 points.

The Generals led by 10 points in
the second half, but the Wasps
outscored W&L 21-12 over the
game’s ﬁnal 8:49, including just four
points for the Generals in the ﬁnal 5: 13.

Junior Toussiant Crawford
matched a season-best effort with 16
points, while junior John Warren and
freshman Mark Franceski added nine
apiece.

W&L faced a similar scenario
against the Maroons (12—7, 7-5) at the
Warner Center on Saturday. W&L led
by as many as 11 in the first half and
seven after the break, but could never
put the defending ODAC co-champi-
ons away.

Roanoke’s Robby Pridgen gave
his team a 56-55 lead with a three-
pointer with 36 seconds left, and two
free throws by Jaimar Mansel 1 1 sec-
onds later extended the lead to 58-55.

But W&L junior Scott Hettermann,
playing for the first time since injur-
ing his ankle against Virginia
Wesleyan on Jan. 20, created a three-
point play with 18 seconds left, and
the game went to overtime.

OUT OF BOUNDS 10...: Senior Megan Babst and Guilford’s
Nicole McCrory (on floor) and Jennie Keichline wait for the

The Quakers took the initiative in
the second half, building a 49-23 lead
before Babst capped off a late 16-0
run with a basket to pull the Generals
to within 10 at 49-39 with 2:06 remain-
ing. Guilford pushed the final margin
to 60-41 by hitting several free throws.

W&L’s run came too late to affect
the outcome of the game, but Hollack
was pleased that her team didn’t give
up against the Quakers.

“Deﬁnitely a positive was the fact
that we didn’t lie down and die,”
Hollack said. “For eight minutes, we
played quality basketball where we
didn’t let the game come to us, we
took the game. I told them how proud

PORTS    

Roanoke stops &L in overtime hartbreaker;

JEREMYFRANKIRI
SI>ORTsEDIToi_i
EMAll;FRANKllNJ@WlU.FDEl

  

BACK IN THE LINEUP: Junior Scott Hettermann, shown here
in Washington and Lee’s 76-73 win over Eastern Mennonite
on Jan. 9, returned to action in the Generals’ 76-69 overtime

“Scott’s our biggest, strongest kid
on the floor, and that’s probably what
we lack on our team,” Lafave said.
“With his presence on the floor, other
guys feed off him.”

The extra frame saw a back—and—
forth pace until the final 90 seconds.

(1 by top of conferene ha

I was that they did scrap back —- a
little too late, but better late than
never.”

There was no reprieve for the Gen-
erals, who moved from facing the sec-
ond-best team in the conference to vis-
iting the ODAC leader, Bridgewater, on
Saturday. The Eagles (15-1, 12-0),
ranked No. 24 in the nation, took a 10-
po1nt halftime lead and held off a late
W&L charge in pulling out a 68-60 win.

Bridgewater led by as many as 15
points in the second half, but the Gen-
erals whittled the lead down to 61-57
with 1:09 left. But the Eagles hit 5-of-
6 free throws in the final minute to
secure the victory.

Josh Foster’s three-point play back
at the 2:51 mark proved to be the
game-winner, as it gave Roanoke the
lead for good at 65-63.

Hettermann, who finished with
team-highs of 17 points and seven
rebounds, fouled out on a charge call

MARY GUY/Th? Rzrzg-tum Phz

referees call in Washington and Lee’s 60-41 loss to the Quakers
at home on Wednesday. Babst led all scorers with 18.

Babst again led W&L in scoring,
finishing with 25 points. Mentz re-
turned to previous form with 21 points
and nine rebounds, and senior Sarah
Schmidt contributed 10 points.

The Generals will try to snap a
three—game losing streak on Wednes-
day when they host Randolph—Ma-
con Woman’s College at 7 p.m. Then
comes the rematch with Roanoke,
which comes to the Warner Center on
Friday.

“We have a lot of potential here,”
Hollack said. ‘‘If we can just get over
that mental block — even more so than
they physical end, our mental game’s
got to be top—notch as well.”

Swimmers top Marymount, drop 2 on road

Generals are victorious in home dual meet, but drop road contests to Johns Hopkins, Mary Washington

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

For Washington and Lee swim-
rning fans, it just doesn’t get much
better than Monday nights at
T wombly Pool. In this week’s edition,
the Generals wrapped up their final
home meet with a pair of wins against
Marymount University.

The Generals won big, with victo-
ries in 18 of the 22 events on the sched-

$ "Tile. If not for the disqualiﬁcation of

both Generals’ 200 freestyle relay
teams, that total would have increased
to 20.

The only other pair of events lost
that night was the 100 breaststroke,
and while all the W&L swimmers were
disqualiﬁed in that event as well, none
of their times would have beaten
Lauren Forestello or Walter Harris of
Marymount.

Still, it was a remarkable meet for
W&L, as the men won 133-57 and the
women pulled out a 111-63 victory.

Junior Patrick Frankfort and sopho-
more Eric Ritter each posted meet
records in the 200 freestyle and 200

 

FILE PHOTO

HOME SWEET HOME: The Washington and Lee swim teams racked up dual meet
wins at home against Marymount on Monday before losing to Johns Hopkins
and Mary Washington in Fredericksburg over the weekend.

individual medley, respectively.
Sophomores Drew Catanese and Colin
Mitchell also set meet records in the
100 butterﬂy and 100 backstroke.

Senior Rick Black posted a pair of wins
in the 1,000 and 500 freestyle events, and
junior Zach Fake rounded out the squad
with a win in the 50 freestyle.

The women were similarly suc-
cessful in their outing that night. Se-
nior Laura Ingoldsby won the 200
freestyle, and juniors Blair Huffman,
Kelli Austin and Jackie Green won the
200 IM, 100 butterfly, and 100
freestyle.

Freshmen Suzie LaFleur and
Eleanor Williams won the 50 freestyle
and 100 backstroke.

The road wasn’t so kind to the
Generals, as both the men and women
lost dual meets to Johns Hopkins and
Mary Washington in Fredericksburg
on Friday and Saturday.

The men fell to Mary Washington,
the event’s host, 95-59 and lost to
Hopkins by a 1 15-36 score. The home
team beat W&L’s women 113-38, and
the Blue Jays defeated the Generals
120-31.

Frankfort won the 1,650 freestyle
and the 200 freestyle against the
Eagles, while Ritter was victorious
in the 200 backstroke for both
meets.

The Generals will conclude the
regular season at the Grove City Invi-
tational over the Washington Holiday.

FILE PHOTO

loss to Roanoke on Saturday after missing a week’s action
with an ankle injury. 1-lettermann led W&L with 17 points,
including a three-point play that forced the extra period.

at the 1:30 mark, and the Maroons
sealed the win by hitting 1 1-of— 1 2 free
throws the rest of the game.

Pridgen led all scorers with 24.
Crawford added another 16 points for
the Generals, and freshman Mike
Stuart ended the contest with 15.

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wres-
tling team fell victim to the two top
teams in the Centennial Conference,
losing 38-9 to Ursinus and 37-12 to

angular on Saturday.

Senior Ivan Zdanov led the Gen-
erals (2-5, 0-4 Centennial), winning
both of his matches for the day. He
pinned Ursinus’ Sebastian
Voltarelli in 1:39 in his match,
then followed with a gruel-
ing 3-1 victory over West-
ern Maryland’s Andy
Chencharik.

“Those teams are probably
the two bestinthe conference, '
so it feels good to go out and
beat their wrestlers,” Zdanov
said.

The four-year veteran has been
forced to carry a majority of the se-
nior leadership load because of Ben
Segal’s shoulder injury last week-
end and Ezra Morse’s ankle injury.

“I’ve tried to motivate the guys
everyday, especially with the expe-
rience I bring to the mat,” Zdanov
said. “I want them to realize that ev-
ery match counts, especially with
only three weeks left in the season.”

Sophomore Joe Mueller and
freshman Brian Avello each split
their matches on Saturday. Mueller
began the day with a 3-1 victory over
Travis Allred of Ursinus, but later
fell to Dan Riggs of the Green Terror
by a 13-7 score.

“Joe wrestled well today, but
faced a very tough competitor
against Western Maryland,” coach
Gary Franke said.

Avello reversed Mueller’s fate,
losing his ﬁrst match before show-
ing a great deal of energy in defeat-
ing French Pope of the Terror, 9-7.

3

T 7 Wéste‘fn’Ma‘fy1andi’nthe W&L 'l‘n'- '

    

ZDANOV

PAGE 8

(.

The free throw line again proved
disastrous for W&L, which hit just 523
percent from the charity stripe for the
game —— 50 percent in regulation. The
Maroons, who lead the conference in
free throw percentage, shot 86 per;
cent for the contest. 

“That’s a battle each and every
kid individually has to go through in
practice,” Lafave said of free throw
shooting. “It’s been the Achilles’ heel
for us the whole year, and it’s cost
us some games. It was a big factor in
this one.” .

Despite the loss, Lafave was
pleased with the effort of his team.
The third—year coach hopes that the
moral victories from this week’s con-
tests will turn into victories on pa-
per against such teams against
Emory and Henry, which visits
W&L at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, and
Lynchburg.

“It would have been great to get a
game like (Roanoke) to have our kids
conﬁdent, but as long as our attitude
remains the same and we play with
that kind of effort in the next games
coming up, we should ﬁnd ourselves
in pretty good position,” he said. “We
seem to be closing the gap with a lot
of teams in the ODAC.

“We’re knocking on the door, and
hopefully someday we’ll go through.”

Generals battle injuries,
top-notch Certennial foes

W&L falls to pair of conference powers in home triangular

Avello seemed slow in the middle
of the match, but eventually showed
extreme desire by getting a key
takedown in the ﬁnal period. »

“Brian wrestled well, but these
are the last three weeks of the sea-
son. We need energy from every
wrestler because this is the time to’
pick it up,” Franke said. _‘

Despite the setbacks against
Ursinus and Western Maryland;
Franke still noted the difﬁculty of
wrestling with a battered
team that most likely will see-
the return of Morse next"
weekend. 

“We’re very anxious toj
get Ezra back on Saturdayfi,
the 29-year veteran coach‘
’ said. “With him and Beri,
out, it’s tough to compete’-
against the top teams like.
Western Maryland and‘:
Ursinus. In a situation like that, youf,’

need extraordinary performances’-

from everyone.” 
In the third matchup of the trian-I

gular, Westem Maryland rallied late,:' '
winning the ﬁnal four matches, in-'«

cluding a thrilling ﬁnal match in the"
heavyweight class, to defeat‘
Ursinus 21-19. 

The Generals next travel to South--I
em Virginia College in Buena Vista‘.
for a 7:30 p.m. matchup on Wednes»
day against a squad that W&L de-L
feated 34- 15 earlier in the season.

However, Franke expects a stiff‘
challenge from the Knights.

“When we beat SVC earlier in the
season, we had Ezra and Ben,”
Franke said. “That team’s improved,
throughout the year and gained‘
some experience while we’ve suf-
fered in a few weight classes.

“It will be a very tough matchup
and we’ll need to prepare even
harder to get good individual per-
formances.”

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULEZ JAN. 29-FEB. 4

Wednesday, Jan. 30

Women’s Basketball
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College

at W&L, 5 p.m.

Men’s Basketball

Emory and Henry at W&L, 7 p.m.
Wrestling

W&L at Southern Virginia, 7:30 p.m.

Friday, Feb. 1
Women’s Basketball
Roanoke at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Feb. 2

Wrestling

W&L at Newport News Apprentice

Invitational, 8 a.m.

Men’s Basketball

W&L at Hampden-Sydney, 2 p.m.
Indoor Track

W&L at VMI Relays, TBA

Sunday, Feb. 3

Men’s Basketball

W&L at Lynchburg, 2 p.m.
Women’s Basketball
Shenandoah at W&L, 2 p.m.

Follow W&L sports each week in The Hing-tum Phi.

 

  

PAGE 8



MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2002

W&L track teams kick off 2002 season indoors

Women complement strong returning corps with freshmen, look to compete now in ODAC

Veteran Aldridge anticipates strong year

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s track team enters the
2001-02 indoor season with a number of newcomers who
will hopefully help the squad improve on last season’s
fourth place (out of ﬁve) ﬁnish at the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference indoor championships.

Coach Norris Aldridge returns for his 32nd season as
head coach and brings along two veterans to lead
the team of youngsters, senior Mike Hegg and jun-
ior Chris Sullivan.

“Chris and Mike are the two leaders and cap-
tains,” Aldridge said. “They provide the most ex-
perience and energy to this team.”

Hegg ﬁnished third in the 55-meter hurdles with
a time of 8.42 seconds at last season’s indoor
championships, then fell short in his bid to com-
pete in the NCAA Division HI Championships in
the 110-meter hurdles last May.

Sullivan will return to the long jump pit, where he took
fourth place at last season’s indoor championships.

Sullivan’s speed on the gridiron, where he earned AP
All-America honors for Division II and HI players as an
all-purpose runner earlier this year, should translate to
success in sprinting events, including the 100—meter dash,
where he competed last season.

The key to the team’s success, however, will ultimately
rest with the young runners, jumpers and throwers.

“My ultimate goal is for us to ﬁnish as high as we have
the capabilities to,” Aldridge said. “I think we’ve improved
with our new talent and are a better team than last season.

“Obviously, though, I haven’t seen too many other
squads, and I’m assuming they’ve improved as well.”

 

ALDRIDGE

Aldridge has been impressed with the efforts from fresh-
men Wes Bell, who will run distance events and relays; Steve
Chambers, another distance runner; and Brian Krupczak.

“Brian has jumped very well for us and ran well in De-
cember, but he pulled his hamstring on Saturday (at Chris-
topher Newport),” Aldridge said. “Hopefully we can get
him back soon.”

A few non—freshrnan newcomers have also put in good
performances through the ﬁrst couple months of the season.

Junior Mat Rapoza, coming off a football campaign where
he earned D3Football.com All-America honors on the offen-
sive line, enters his first season throwing the shot
put for W&L after transferring from Swarthmore.

, Sophomore Andrew Fotinos, who has run on

" the cross country team the past two seasons, also

, . decided to come out for the indoor season and
A will run distance events.

The team’s second test of the young season
came on Friday and Saturday, when they traveled
to Christopher Newport for a two-day competi-
tion. Aldridge viewed the event as another way
to gauge his team’s progress as they move towards the
ODAC Indoor Championships at Lynchburg on Feb. 23.

“It was the first meet we’d had in a few weeks, so I was
interested in seeing our progress,” Aldridge said. “I saw
some very good performances, including Wes, who ran
well on our relay teams.”

The team next heads across town to compete in the VMI
Relays, where Aldridge will get the opportunity to see more
individual scores. The team’s preparation and training, how-
ever, lead directly to Feb. 23, when improving on last
season’s fourth place ﬁnish will be the order of the day.

“We’ll work hard over the next weeks, then taper down
for the championships,” he said.

“A lot of training is done in January and February so
that we can peak at the right time.”

Generals run at Newport Classic

W&L begins New Year with individual-only event across the state at Newport News

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s indoor track teams com-
peted for the ﬁrst time in the New Year,
traveling to Newport News for the
Christopher Newport Indoor Classic
on Friday and Saturday.

The meet focused on individual per-
formances and no team scores were kept.

Junior Chris Sullivan led the men’s
squad with two top 10 finishes.
Sullivan ﬁnished ﬁfth in the 60—meter
dash with a time of 7.31 seconds and

also took eighth place in the long
jump (20 feet, 8 1/2 inches).

Classmate Mat Rapoza also took
home a ﬁfth—place ﬁnish, this time in the
shot put, tossing 42 feet, 10 3/4 inches.

Freshman Wes Bell also competed
well, ﬁnishing ninth in the 1,500 meters
(4: 12.34).

The women’s squad was led by
junior Burke Duncan, who took 13th
place in the 3—kilometer run with a time
of 1 1:00.18.

Two freshmen also performed well
at the Indoor Classic. Meredith Walker

took home two top 20 ﬁnishes, taking
15th in the long jump (14 feet, 3 1/4
inches) and 18th in the 200-meter dash
(30.19).

Audrey Walker improved on her
17th-place ﬁnish (30 feet) in the shot put
last month at the VMI Invitational. At
Newport News, she took home an 1 1th-
place ﬁnish, tossing 30 feet, 6 3/4 inches.

The men’s and women’s teams
both travel across town next Satur-
day to compete at the VMI Relays,
another competition focusing on in-
dividual, not team, scores.

Photo 2»; Mtctzaa Mazzeo

us Dopartmom omuupoihuan

This bracelet was a gift Amber Apociaca

received from the center where she helped teenswith
drug and alcohol problems. She was wearing it

when an underage drunk driver took her life.

Friends Don’t Let Friends Drive Drunk.

BY DIYA VOHRA
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
track team prepares for their season
with high hopes, anticipation and
hard work. The ﬁrst meet in Decern—
ber at the VMI Invitational saw some
positive results, but there was no scor-
ing kept at the meet, only individual
competitions.

John Tucker, in his 14th year as
the team’s coach,
is optimistic about ‘
this season. He
said he wishes to
“see our team
members develop
their athletic po-
tential to the maxi-
mum extent they
can, so that we
can, as a group, be
as competitive as possible.”

The Generals boast a strong mix of
freshmen and upperclassmen as they
compete in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

“There is vast diversity and I ex-
pect to see significant conference-
level contributions from all team mem-
bers,” Tucker said.

The season kicked off full-ﬂedged
on Friday and Saturday at the Chris-

TUCKER

 

topher Newport Invitational. Most
team members, who were busy with
other sports at the end of last year,
are now back, in shape and ready to
compete.

Tucker motivates the team by “tell-
ing a story about the importance of
every member.”

“Each member is developing their
own ﬁtness and athletic ability, and if
we strive to improve as individuals, it
will inspire the other members,” he said.
0 Senior and second-year captain
Melissa Palombo, who participates in
sprints, hurdles and jumps, wants to
“place better at the ODACs this year.”
Her enthusiasm for a team that is larger
and more talented than recent squads
is evident.

The Generals placed fourth at last
year’s ODAC outdoor track and ﬁeld
championships, at which seniors
Megan Babst and Sarah Schmidt both
claimed individual titles. Palombo
hopes to improve upon that ﬁnish in
2002 since the “team is working best
and the team unit is the most cohe-
sive it has been in four years.”

Palombo is grateful for the increase
in coaching staff who are “really strong
and better organized” than last year.

The team has complete confidence
in the freshmen, who will allow W&L
to compete in several events in which

the Generals haven’t participated in
recent years. Freshman Kim Gunst, a
pole vaulter and sprinter, has “aspira-
tions and has displayed a strong per-
formance in pole vault,” according to
Tucker.

Freshman Liz Crawford, a high
jumper and sprinter who has not run
competitively before, is showing “me-
teoric improvement,” the coach said.

Roommates and classmates
Audrey Walker and Casey Sharpe,
also freshmen, are valuable new ad-
ditions to the team. A cross coun-
try runner who has not run track
and field before, Sharpe “has taken
the distance runners by storm,”
Tucker said.

Junior Burke Duncan, an accom-
plished distance runner on the na-
tional scene, is one of the team’s high-
est hopes. Freshman Meredith Walker
is “very athletically talented and is go-
ing to have a big impact on the team,”
according to Tucker.

The team spirit as a whole seems

h
.7

A

4

A

to be high, and members are excited 1‘

about their individual events.
Tucker is proud of the experience,

talent and ability of the team members,

for whom, he claims, “winning ODAC

(championships) as individuals or a '

team” is the motivation and guiding
factor behind their perseverance.

Jan. 11-17

Jan 25-31
Feb. 1-9

E SALE

aims rnmv. Mmmnv 11
25% oﬂ evervilsinq

Jan. 18-24 30% ofl-'

40°/o ol-'F

« 569% oFF!!!!!

ZLIETZBA ZQZEQE I\IZ'l" IIVZLLJEEZ

MAKING ROOM FOR THE ,
NEW SPRING 'NVENT.0BlL

l

v ,

1

t»

«T 4

 

