 
     
  
      
      

  
 
 

S’i‘r.i,\‘~F,\'

G. EBYIUN-I r.i£mFi“v'
wigli:/l§3'Setr()u a we tmlilliﬁiw

 ‘M 

llii” ll5V""" “ Pl“ V‘ } O  Trsr. L; PI-si

INFLATION (I3 PAGE 3 ' " P I r _ W _ _
L.\Tl.\llil{ i>i::i:i..‘m1~::»: "iris: (“lll Ollill"'(”'l 6

P I:'l_*1i..'rF. we i.\.~ii>i>it<>i>i<iA’r‘r%; Tl--HELTA 8
(3R;‘il)l'~. »\SSl(3t~<.\lEI\’=’l" AIJIJA DE LTA 

A DE:FEAfi‘  PAGE 7 IQXPPA 7
Gl'il\l'~'j.l'~‘.-\l.S Br‘r$KFL'l‘E“n‘\i.l. 
FAI.i.S "rm l’lA.\lPDF.l\'~- Pl Pill 3

\’rn .i.'.‘iiF. Cli’, N’ ». XVI

i.t«.:>:zvs:'ri>., \9':;a.(.a:\:i.-=. ‘Z4450

;Vl\’)1\‘tI).-*.‘.',_l.4.l\1i.'_&’.‘.' E4, 2002

:Sororities, fraternities receive grades, pledges

0 7 Large freshman class he/ps Greeks enjoy successful rush season

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

D

W&L’s record number of freshmen pre-

* sented a golden opportunity to fraternities and

sororities eager to increase membership.
The IFC and Panhellenic Council worked

" with the Dean of Students Office in the com-

plicated process of sorting more than three

‘ 5. fourths of the freshman class into Greek orga-

nizations.

1 ' SORORITYRECRUITMENT

Panhellenic President Katie Cedarholm,

b a senior, and Recruiting Chair Elizabeth Saxtori,

a junior, stayed up past 2 a.m. for nearly a

' * week.

$ wants to participate,”

0 ‘‘There’s a lot of be-

“We’ve been busy trying to place every-
one in a sorority who

Saxtori said.

hind the scenes wor ,”

V g Cedarholm added.

This work included organizing invitations to
last week’s various sorority functions, held last

* week, which include Philanthropy and Skit Nights.

Cedarholm and Saxtori also cross-refer-
enced lists and assisted Panhellenic Advisor
Teresa Glassman in the selection process,
which is electronic.

y‘ “We use a DOS program, so I don’t know

if I’d call it high tech,” Glassman said.

‘ The program takes the preferences of the

sororities and of the potential new members,

‘ ‘and attempts to match them together while

maintaining each house’s quota.

\We’ve been busy trying to place everyone
in a sorority who wants to participate.
ELIZABETH SAXTON ‘04

Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins has
been working with dorm counselors to make
sure that the “needs are met” of participants
and non participants of recruitment.

There has been, however, no special Resi-
dence Life meeting called on rush or
pledgeship, Watkins said.

FRATERNITY RUSH

The IFC, which had successfully op-
posed the recent motion to shorten
pledgeship to six weeks, began planning for
rush on a Skylar retreat on Sept. 4.

Several changes grew out of the meet-
ing, including abolishing the usual Lee Chapel
assembly.

Instead, IFC representatives met with sec-
tions of male dormitory halls. Reading from
prepared talking points,
they gave advice and
answered questions.

“The information

sessions helped" out a lot,”
said IFQ President Quincy
Springs, a senior, who believes the personal ap-
proach encoiiiaged more freshmen to rush.

IFC Vice President and senior Brent
Keene is in charge of fraternity rush.

He edited the Rush Book, a publication
that allowed every fraternity two pages to
describe their house, list members, and pro-
vide pictures of activities. .

Before Christmas, freshmen ﬁlled out their
preference cards, where they listed their top
four choices. This past week, freshmen vis-
ited them during rush dates one to four, which
were two ninety—niinute intervals on Tuesday

   

(Arrow)

ll\'1-‘ORMA‘I‘lOl\ COL'R'l‘FSY BRFNT Krnxr, IFC V102 Pn=siI>i=Nr, AND SORO|lI1Tl-S/ INFOGRAPHIC Bi MAi'nii=ii McDi-‘nxiorii;
(mow) lNrORiVlATlO2\1 COURIFSY Draw or STUDFNIS OFFICE

Administration re/eases
Greek GPA’s for Fall Term 2001

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

By one thousandth of a GPA point,
Sigma Nu wrested the academic trophy from
Pi Beta Phi for Fall Term 2001. This is the first
time in recent memory that a fraternity has
beaten a sorority to earn the highest grade
average.

Sigma Nu, with a 3.388, has maintained
the highest fraternity average for the past
two terms.

Sigma Chi, whose 3.339 is the second
highest average, climbed from its previous
fifth rank.

With a 3.387, Pi Beta Kapa had the high-
est sorority average.

Chi Omega moved from first to second
place, with a 3.335 average.

Two fraternities had an A average and
13 had a B average. Two sororities had an
A average and three had a B average.

Every fraternity but Kappa Alpha and Chi
Psi had a higher average than non-fraternity
men. Every sorority had a higher average than
non—sorority women.

Greek men and women had higher aver-
ages than non—Greeks. Women had higher
averages than men.

The average W&L GPA is 3.095.

Fraternity Rankings Sorority Rankings Other Scores

Quota is set before recruitment and is and Wednesday evenings. l’ SlgmaNll 3388 l‘ Pllgela Plll 3387 Allsolollly 3274
the number of participating women divided Selected freshmen were invited back on 2‘ Slgmaclll 3339 2' ClllOmega3'335 Allwomen 3'l94
by ﬁve. This year’s quota was 37 up from rush dates ﬁve and six on Thursday. 3‘ Plll Gamma Della 3238 3'KapPa KaPPaGa‘mma3‘223 N°n’S°l°llly Women 3'lll
last year’s 32. Fully eighty—nine percent of “Some houses have a tendency to hold 4' PlKapPa Plll 3'l97 4' Kappa Alpha Tllela3'229 Allsllldellls 3095
freshman woman are participating in this pledges during rush date ﬁve ” Springs said. 5‘ Plll Della Theta 3‘l45 5' Kappa Della 3'2l6 Allﬁalemlly 3075
.,year’s rush. “The IFC patrolled during rush week, which 6'  Clll Alplla 3'l06 AllMe“ 3'0l_5
' Every woman gets one bid for a sorority. helped the situation.” 7' Slgma Alpha Epslloll 3'08l N°ll‘Flal°mlty Men 2941
Should she reject it, which the Panhellenic Springs believes thatrushwentwell. "Ihere 8‘ Plll Kappa P_sl 3055
#Council discourages, she is unable to pledge. -weieafewbumpsintheroad,7’hesaid,“butthey’ll 9‘ Plll Kappa Slgma 3046

10. Sigma Phi.Epsilon 3.025
1 1. Beta Theta Pi 3.018

12. Kappa Sigma 2.991

13. Pi Kappa Alpha 2.952
14. Kappa Alpha 2.788

15. Chi Psi 2.777

another sorority for a calendar year.
Some women “fall through the cracks,”
* and do not get a bid.
“We are very happy that there are fewer
girls that didn’t get bids this year than last
‘ year,” Glassman said.

be handled at the Monday IFC meeting.”

“It looks like there’s going to be a lot of
alcohol violations from bid night,” Keen said.

“Allin all we’re working out kinks as we
work under the new alcohol rules and regula-
tions,” Springs said.

Fall

  

The institute and its anticipated annual sessions are be-
ing financed by $750,000, raised by Billy Schaefer ’60 from
members of the Class of 1960. The Institute’s goals are still
being formulated but include promoting academic integrity in
secondary schools and colleges, while
also emphasizing ways that alurrmi can

-mail news briefs to

ODK initiates new students

W&L-founded national honor society inducts 22 undergrads, 9 law students

     
 

further promote integrity in the profes— COMPILED BY
sions and in the workplace, institute or- STAFF REPORTS Class of 2002 William Guthn-6 Packard, HI
' , , , ganizers said. - -
‘ NEW p0//t/CS COUfS9 On ,0/l/Sm In 1992, Washington and Lee was Membership in Omicron Delta Kappa hull/153:: iffgfyaglglj Cltgfgil (2133:: -Fggrtssggn
‘ - - amon 24 foundin institutions of the Cen— is awarded to under aduate 'unior and se- -
a ﬁrs Sta te W] m e d I a  Vere ter forg Academic Irgitegrity, formerly spear— MUDD nior students, gradirate students, to fac- rll~:1§:a]::‘E3lg):eG1:l:s:l;I?k Law Class 01-2002
,1 Washington and Leo Univorsity’s new course on terror- headed by McCabe and now based at Duke University’s Kenan ulty, staff, adnii nistration and alumni; and Veronica Ellen Gfiﬁ-uh Ryan Andmw Becker

ism has boon in the media spotlight this week with news orga- Institute of Ethics. The center’s 1997 armual convention was to persons qualifying for membership hon— Thomas Galen Grove John Stanﬁeld Buford

nizations from across the state Visiting campus and interview- hosted by W&L on ltS national historic landmark carripus ll’! oris causa. Charene Amelia Jones Hillary B eth Coombs

ing Politics Professor Bob strong about his creation of the 0 Lexington. Today, the center has about 250 institution mem- Student candidates must rank in the Anne Monica Lachiewicz Sarah Margaret Cravens

popular 2()0-lcvel course. bers, including many of the country’s most erriinent colleges upper 35 percent of their college and must Amanda Lewis Chﬁsty Lynn M CQH amy

A strong, head of tho politics department in W&L’s and universities. show leadership in scholarship, athlet- Elizabeth B1airMannmg Stacy Eve Smith
Williams school of Commorco, Economics, and Politics, Mudd, who has become in recent years an avid com- ics, community service, social or reli— E1iaImaJ0euaMaIZiani
, began planning the course days after the mentator and speaker on professional ethics, will launch the gious activities, campus government, Robert Oaconner Moynihan Law Class 01.2003
Sept, 11 attacks on the world Trade weekend events with his Founders’ Day convocation ad- mass media, or the creative or perform— Deeksha prakash John Frank Eismger
Center and the Pentagon, Though hav- dress, “Honor: Is It Absolute or Is It Relative?” The speech, ing arts. Hamid Ems Shaw, In H eath Holland Galloway
ing long incorporated issuos of terror- which is open to the public, is at 11:30 a.m. Friday, Jan. 18, in ODK was founded on Dec. 3, 1914, Micah paul Tolman Sara Scott McGe0rge
ism in his classes, strong has devoted Lee Chapel. at Washington and Lee University, Lex- Abram Jonas Trosky
hundreds of hours to dovoloping tho now McCabe, aRutgers University professor of organizational ington, Virginia, by 15 student and fac- Alumni
STRONG coursels examination of the volatile is- management, will deliver the institute’s keynote address at 11 ulty leaders. . Class of 2003 Thomas R_ Shepherd
; sues facing policy makers grappling with a.m. Saturday, Jan. 19, in the Law School s moot courtroom. ODK was the first college honor so- Robert EaI1Benson
terrorism and its repercussions. The institute’s inaugural two—day session will include a ciety of a national scope to recognize Agnes Maria Flak Honoris Causa
ﬁr student demand for the class has been intense, with un- series of workshops and discussions, which are not open to leadership and service in extracurricular Avery Flinn Gholston W~1uiamF'MCC0rk1e’Jr.
dergraduates continuing to seek spots in one of three sections the public, featuring Mudd, McCabe, members 0fW&L’S fac- activities. N an Cy Shepherd
A of the course as W&L’s winter term classes opened this week. 111i)’, UIliV6fSit)' Officials and Outside SPCak€TS-
Media coverage of the course also has prompted inquiries from
- .0 faculty at other colleges, said Strong, a nationally known expert  IE  es 
on American foreign policy and the U.S. Presidency. Wednesday’ Jan 16

News coverage of the W&L course include articles by
? the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, the Associated Press, the
Roanoke Times, the Staunton News-Leader and television

of chemistry in building the atomic bomb

Frank A. Settle, professor of chemistry at Washing-

, 8:00 p.m.——Alcoholic Anonymous meet-
ing. Fairfax Lounge. Coffee provided. All

it reports by WDBJ-7 and WSLS—I0 in Roanoke and WSET-I3 in ml‘ and Le? l.l“l"°lSfllA7’ lllas .““lll‘g;°‘l ll” °°¥.°’1 S(l1°f:l°l mvitm
L nchburg this month s issue 0 na ytzca emzstry. it e na-
y ' lytical Chemistry and the Manhattan Project,” Settle ex- Th“1‘Sd3YsJ3n- 17 ~
amines the major role analytical chemists played in the 7P-in-—“Wi11d°Wt0PaTiS-” Russianwith Sub"

titles. Rm. 221, Williams School.

7:30 p.m.—-—Guest speaker. “Addressing Pov-
erty in West Africa: The Case of Niger,” by Jason
Hahn ’99, former Peace Corps Volunteer. Room 114,

success of the top-secret Manhattan Project to build the
first atomic bomb.

For the last two years, Settle, who teaches analytical
chemistry and an interdisciplinary course on the nuclear age,

.4»
Roger Mudd ‘50, Donald McCabe

“ ‘ will speak to launch W&L Institute for Honor
0 )1 Newsman Roger Mudd, a 1950 W&L alumnus and

 

Y widely respected journalist, and Dr. Donald L. McCabe, has b66n building a Web Site. thﬁ A1508 Di ital Libf for Science Center’
one of the country’s leading authorities on academic in-  1 r Issues, that is Part Of the Naiimlai Science _
Alytegrity and collegiate Honor Systems, are the featured F011I1dati0n’s $40 million National Science Digital Library Tilda)’ F"llay’Ja“' 18

Founder’s Day/ODK Convocation
1 1 :30 a.m.-—ODK Convocation and Inaugural

8:30 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.—Java at the GHQ. Robin
Stone, accompanied by precussionist. Soulfolk, fun,

project designed to create, organize and install high—quality
educational resources on the Internet.

speakers at Washington and Lee University Founders’
8 Day events and the inaugural session of the W&L Insti-

tute for Honor The Alsos site, created through a $250,000 NSF grant, and jazz music. Lﬁctureo f Inslitute for H°“°r- Roger Mudd ‘50-
Tho Jan_ 18-19 festivities, which include students’ initia- provides a rich array of authoritative and reliable references L5eCi1aP91- . . “
tion into the Omicron Delta Kappa honor society for leader— drawn fmm Sources w°lldwlde' T“°5d3YsJan- 15 7'30 P'm‘_ Fllm S°°lely' Apocalypse Now’

Redux” (USA, 1979/2001 ). Directed by Francis Ford
Coppola. Troubadour Cinema.

Noon—Fellowship lunch. W&L employees
brown bag lunch. Rm 108, University Center.

The current Alsos Library is directed by Settle and Tho-
mas P. Whaley, professor of computer science at W&L.

ship achievements, are designed to highlight the launching of

Y the W&L Institute for Honor.

 

  
    
  
  
   
 

Mo DAY, JANUARY 14, 2002 ,‘

‘ll

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT

M

 

10 student apartments available

* One house with 6 bedrooms---available NOW! * ~
* One house with 4 bedrooms-- available in summer. * +
* Enjoy country living at its finest. *
* Just ten miles west of W&L on Waterloo Drive. *

 

Please call Time Wilhelm at
540-463-6575, 540-463-2868, or ,, 4
540-570-1911 (cell)

an. 18-24 30% off    
an 25-31 40% off
Feb. 1-9 I 5@°/o oIF!!!!!

CUSTOM ORDERS NOT INCLUDED

MAKING ROOM FOR THE
NEW SPRING INVENTORY

  

Glasses      
starting soon!

MCAT prep at W&Lestarts January 6166 !! I

    

astichancei teprep for the April '02 test date !!

      
     
   
    

Call NOW to reserve your spot !!
(ask for course code MCCV2301) I   ‘

can or visit us onllne today to enroll!

 

‘.’V°'."d Leade:
"1 Test Prep.

___.

  
   
   
     

 

4 N 1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com 6
AOL keyword: Kaplan

’*MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association ‘of American Medical Celleges-

1MCAO054

 

.\ if A MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2002

'l”RINc-R1\il*}—.n

TAFF EDITORIAL

Pledgeship 2002:
W&L’s master class

Professors, take heed. An ever-lengthen-
ing and ragged column of freshmen will soon
be straggling into your classes at 8: 10, 9:05, or
even 10:15.

Meanwhile, the empty seats surrounding
the tardy will memorialize peers unable to win
the battle against alcohol consumption and sleep
deprivation.

Some teachers would use this situation as
an excuse to “crack down,” enforcing pre-es-
tablished rules on attendance and participation.

Nothing could be less fair.

Don’t be fooled, professors. Your tender
charges are learning——-that out-of-classroom,
true-to-life learning that W&L values.

All of the academy is contained within
pledgeship: the history of one’s Greek-letter
organization, man’s biological response to con-
suming gallons of alcohol, the chemistry of al-
temative pharmaceuticals, and the economics
of buying cigarettes for house officers.

Weighed against a syllabus like this, any-
thing outside the C-School suddenly loses its

luster. The academic disciplines like philology, A

philosophy, and phenomenology might be well
and good, but when you climb down from the
ivory tower, you see that networking and as-
similation get you the better job.

Understandably, lessons as important as
these carmot be taught for a few hours every
night. Often instruction continues early into the
morning, and lesser subjects must of course
make way.

Because students are working so ﬁendishly
outside of class, the solution is for professors
to relax within it. Grade-inflation is an ugly and
imprecise term; consider it grade-massage.

The grades the Class of 2005 can be sub-
tly inﬂuenced by understanding what’s going
on off the Hill. A paper ordinarily meriting a C
can look like a B when you realize its author
wrote it after the Keg Relay. A D-quiz can be
quite C+ish when you realize only three hours

intervened since the student was re‘le_;,as_e_;d frgm 

scavenger hunting by his brother. . .

In the eight weeks ahead, we ask -that.“

W&L teachers demonstrate their commitment
to the true meaning of education.

TEE RiN<;;-uni PH

PINIONS

W&L must avoid t

There are certain things that students
miss about heading home for the holidays,
namely the lack of schoolwork. As much
as I enjoy life here on campus, I would be
lying if I said that I didn’t miss some as-
pects of winter break. However, the prom-
ise of getting a report card is not one of
them.

Just like any other student, I hardly
wanted to bring home a 1.0 GPA for Christ-
mas. And just like any other student, there
are times when I become so overwhelmed
that a part of me wishes that the A’s were
handed to me on a platter with no work
attached.

In light of my dread, I naturally was
intrigued by a recent Boston Globe article
regarding grade inﬂation at Harvard Uni-
versity. What I found astounded me.

A whopping 91 percent of the class of
2001 graduated with honors, and 48.5 per-
cent of last year’s undergraduates earned
A’s or A-minuses. For the record, the na-
tional average is around 27 percent, which
itself is up from 7 percent in 1969.

To say that something didn’t seem
right about the numbers is an understate-
ment. Anyone would agree that even the
briefest glance at the lists posted outside
Payne Hall indicates that the situation is
hardly similar on our campus.

Even Harvard’s tou ghest- grading profes-
sor, Harvey C. Mansﬁeld, acknowledged in a
Chronicle of Higher Education interview last
April that Washington and Lee is one of the
few selective universities that hasn’t fallen
victim to unchecked “upward grade homog-
enization,” Yale’s oﬂicial euphemism.

Indeed, one of my reasons for attend-
ing W&L was its reputation for honest
appraisals of academic ability. Neither my
parents nor I wanted to throw away tens of
thousands of dollars to a diploma mill or
brand school.

In my mind, employers and graduate
schools should not respect that kind of
system, an opinion bolstered by a Harvard
Crimson piece in which a professor at the

BREIT T. KIRWAN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

EMAIL’ l<lRWAl\lB@Wlll.EDU

emptation of gra

COURTFSY C4l54LJERDAll)’.COM

HOT AIR. Grade inﬂation has carried schools to sky-high GPA’s. W&L should not follow suit.

University of Rochester deemed as now
almost worthless the once vaunted
Harvard Business School Degree.

Quite simply, whenever higher educa-
tion succumbs to boosting grades, those with
above—average talent carmot be differenti-
ated from the mediocre.

Inevitably, the more
I read the more my mind
turned to the possibil-
ity of inﬂation in Lexing-
ton. By no means arn I
qualiﬁed to determine the current level of
grade inﬂation on the Hill. After all, I’ve
only received a single trimester report card.

Nevertheless, consideration of national
trends and accounts of other institutions
struggles with pumped-up grades does im-
ply that Washington and Lee is not immune
to this insidious epidemic. There is ample
reason to believe that the school will need
to increase its diligence in upcoming years
in order to keep standards high.

—COGENT COMMENTARY
ANDREW LATIMER ‘05

Washington Hall must reinforce its
fight against the current of popular per-
ception and expectations of a college edu-
cation. Some have dubbed this trend the
“college consumer syndrome,” and the
term ﬁts well. Applicants browse their cata-
logs (such as the US News and World Re-
port rankings and F iske ’s
Guide to Colleges) and
shop around for the most
satisfying and comfort-
able establishment.

Once they have enrolled, the consumer-
friendly college must keep students and their
paying parents happy in order to retain their
ﬁnancial support (read: throw criticism out
the window, lower standards and pacify ev-
eryone with A’s). In theory, the problem is
most acute at universities that rely on tuition
for the majority of their ftmding.

Not that having a donation-dominated
cash ﬂow would be much better. Realisti-
cally, you would expect your typical deep-

PAGE 3

de inﬂation

pocketed parent would want to see some
sort of return on a sizable investment. With
the mounting of the mammoth “Campaign
For The Rising Generation,” such a point
is more pertinent than ever.

If W&L remains steadfast in its com-
rnitrnent to honest grading and refuses to
play the game, it will be in the minority. To
give in to the pressure would be most
tempting if enrollment slackened.

The solution, however, is not to peg
grading to a curve or keep rules stagnant.
Rather, professors must update and reﬁne
their grade scales and expectations as times
dictate. One of the favorite arguments of
those who believe that inﬂation is a myth
is that the rise in GPA only shows that stu-
dents have grown more intellectually ca-
pable and diligent in their studies.

That’s all well and good, but there isn’t
much point in maintaining a system that
compares us to our parents and not our
classmates. All it can beneﬁt is how we feel
about ourselves, and the last time I checked,
no employer has advertised a position for a
worker with “high self—esteem.”

Also, if the administration lets battles
over academic funding get out of hand, the
competition could turn lethal to academics.
Should a department head aim to boost a
sagging program, he or she might suggest
that professors drop unpopular assignments
in order to accommodate more students.

Such an approach may work in the short-
tenn, but the practice will always prove detri-
mental to the depamnents, and therefore the
schools, in the long run. The ultimate losers
in this grim scenario: the students.

Iknow that I would be appalled if I found,
as Harvey C. Mar1sﬁeld’s students at Harvard
do, two grades for each course on my next
report card: the ofﬁcial one-— and then the
unofﬁcial grade the professor felt I truly de-
served. The fact that conditions have dete-
riorated so badly at our nation’s supposedly
top university is appalling, and to let any-
thing like that happen to Washington and
Lee would be even more tragic.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

AND THEN THEY TOOK US TO
THREE SORORITIES, AND MADE

US STRIP DOWN TO OUR BRIEFS.
—FREsHMAN, FOOLISHLY THINKING
THE WORST IS OVER

Editor-in-chief
Layout Editor
News Editor

Asst. News Editors

Matthew B. McDemrott
Katie J. Howell
Alison Trinidad
Latrina Stokes
Irnran Naeemullah
Brett T. Kirwan
Andrew Latirner
Matthew A. Coursen
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy S. Franklin
Dave Crowell

Mary Guy

Meg Ferrara

Paul Seifert

Emily Barker
Robert Floyd
William Litton
Brian Castleberry
Peter Djalaliev

Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers
Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Managers

Internet Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Education can prevent future acts of terrorism

A Jan. 10 New York Times article reports on the grow-

‘ j ing conﬂict in Indonesia between Muslims and Christians.
'  Tem'ble’anger, on both sides, butparticularly’ among the

Muslims, has resulted in horriﬁc atrocities.

Highlighted is a 20-year-old male named N oko, who
is described as “sweet-faced.” Yet Noko is no longer a
sweet boy; he now wears Arab robes when engaging in
clashes, because he believes this is his key to heaven. He
ﬁghts in the name of God.

I pity N oko, for he is not an evil person. He has merely
been seduced by an incredibly well—organized and well-
fmanced worldwide militant movement in
the Muslim religion. President Bush and
his allies are ﬁghting to rescue men like
Noko by attacking terrorism.

Yet the military action employed so
far is only one part of a multi-pronged approach to help-
ing the Muslim world discover enlightenment in its own
cultural and religious context. I say we educate the Mus-
lim world, one country at a time. First stop: Afghani-
stan. ,

In Afghanistan, we have the truly unique opportu-
nity to shape a nation. For the first time in our lifetimes,
we can witness the actual rebuilding of a nation by
international consensus integrating and building upon
local opinions.

After militarily devastating Afghanistan and its former
Taliban rulers, we have rescued the Afghan people from
the tyranny of an unjust government that used a great
and peaceful religion as both its shield and sword. We
have given them the chance to build a new life, one that is
compatible with the Western ideals of freedom, democ-
racy, and human rights, and that rejects the intolerant form
of Islam preached by the Osarna bin Ladens of this world.

But while our intentions are noble, and the efforts of
those involved valiant, we will only succeed on one level:
building a better standard of living in Afghanistan. You
don’t build a better car just by improving the tires or rede-
signing the suspension. You have to reengineer the whole
machine, for it is the sum of its parts.

Think of the car as an analogy to the Muslim world,
a disparate collection of different components that
together, form a civilization of over a billion people
united by a single faith despite geographic, cultural,
and political differences. While it is not our job to
interpret the Muslim religion for them, we can aid them
in creating ideas.

“A nose hair trimmer.”
——Patrick Connolly ‘O3

RlGHT—WlNG RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMUHAH ‘05 most importantly, theywillteach Islam.

“Four pairs of gloves.”
—-Page Thomas ‘05

This is where we can truly shine, by making a solid
education system the number one priority now that we
have installed a friendly and seemingly moderate govern-
ment. We can do this by providing the necessary funding
through the appropriate means to the new Afghan gov-
emment-—and using the sword of swift military action
and withdrawal of economic support should they fail to
comply—to educate its people.

We will give them the means to design a whole new
system of public schools, each of a certain high standard, to
teach not only traditional Afghan and Muslim history, but
the history of many different cultures. They
will also teach science, mathematics, foreign
languages, and computer skills. Finally, and

We will establish the support for the
training and retention of scholars of the highest merit from
around the world who will become the real agents of
change, drawing directly from the Koran and applying it
to modern day life. What they teach should be the reli-
gious education in Afghan schools, taught to the young
of Afghanistan, who will be our colleagues when we be-
come America’s leaders.

Should they be taught this form of Islam, they will be
our friends, our supporters, and our collaborators in our
quest for a more perfect and just world.

This is because Islam does not conﬂict with Western
ideals. The Koran granted universal suffrage and the right
to own property and inherit money by both man and
woman over 1400 years ago. Murder of innocents was
made illegal, as were rape and incest. Backstabbing was
described as a sin, along with show-
ing disrespect to one’s parents.
From the Prophet, we draw wisdom
from sayings like “he who educates
his sons and daughters equally is
assured of a place in Paradise.” This
is the same Prophet who said, “Seek
knowledge, even as far as China,
for it has been made incumbent
upon you.”

This Islam, which is drawn directly from the holy book
and its messenger himself, does not conﬂict with the West.
This is the Islam which inspired a civilization that invented
algebra, charted the stars, mapped the earth, translated
the works of ancient Greek scholars, and produced great
works of art and buildings like the Alhambra Palace in

“A rinky-dink tool kit”
—-Pete Moore ‘03

We have rescued the Afghan people
from the tyranny
of an unjust government
that used a great and peaceful religion
as both its shield and sword.

Spain—still admired today for their magniﬁcent beauty.
The government of this civilization, led by the Caliph, was
so revered for its religious tolerance that on the one hand,
the Caliph Ali refused to pray in a Church on the grounds
that future generations might seek to tum it into a mosque
because he had prayed there, and on the other, was wel-
come by Christians and Jews alike as a savior from a re-
pressive government. All this while our own civilization
was in its darkest times, waging brutal wars across Europe
and burning alleged heretics at the stake. Now the Europe
of the medieval ages is eerily similar to the Islamic world of
today. We need to ensure that the Islamic world enters an
Enlightenment of its own, just as Europe did, lest it never
emerge from its downward spiral and continue to tolerate
and follow false messiahs like Osama bin Laden.

In doing so, we will show our respect to a civilization
that, while culturally very different from our own, is in
many ways our equal. We just need to help it reach that
point, by giving it the means to rediscover its past and
build upon that to establish a bright future. Once we have
helped establish Afghanistan’s educational system, we
will help other Islamic nations. We will then have taken
our erstwhile enemy (Islam) by his hand, exorcised him of
the evil spirits lurking within his body (“fundamentalists”
like Osama bin Laden), and given him a new life that rec-
onciles not only with his own heritage but ours as well, in
a mutually beneﬁcial relationship that will help preserve
both cultures.

There will be problems along the way, to be sure.
Poverty will still exist in its saddest form for a very long
time, and political tensions over places like Israel and
Kashmir will not disappear over-
night. A deep—rooted hatred of
America will continue to simmer
among some, particularly the old
and hardened. And a similar hatred
of Islam will still bum among some
segments of our own society. But
the young—our fellow leaders of
tomorrow—wil1 be strong, enlight-
ened and capable of separating
political disputes from religious issues, and fully aware
of their own distinct identity while recognizing, accept-
ing, and even taking some parts of ours. Far from impos-
ing our own ideals, we will be taking our shared values
and helping them to rebuild their societies based upon
these.

“A phone card.”
--McLean Gordon ‘05

 
  
        



  

L EX [N G TO N
COEFEE

.‘/in (IN/Ll.I‘l(/' (1'r1my2(u_II/

LINGER M A FIRESIDE TABLE
COFFEE - ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO 0 PASTRIES I BAGELS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ‘ LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

 

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor Position

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Office of Admissions wishes to
announce an opening for the position of Admissions Counselor. Responsi-
bilities include: student interviews, application evaluation, and recruit-
ment travel. Strong communication skills and demonstrated organizational
abilities are expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and
able to work as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet capable of
creative self-direction.

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid driver ’s license. All interested
candidates should submit a cover letter and resume’, including two refer-
ences, no later than Monday, February 11, 2002. All materials should be

sent t0.’

Julia M. Kozak

 
  

 

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs-Contacts
COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

WE MW ©W!l@!h!!.!lto3

20 years serving Flockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

MONDAY, !ANUARY 14, 2002 '

v

LOOK Youn BEST
FOR PLEDGESHIP!
Best of Luck!

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

SKIP THOMPSON’S

BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street 0 Lexington, VA

Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. -5 p.m.;
Sat. 8 a.m.—noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

540-463-5954

Fraternities ' Sororities 0
Clubsvstudent Groups

Earn $1000-$2000 this semester
with the easy

Campusfundraiser. com three hour
fundraising event. Does not
involve credit card applications.
Fundraising dates are ﬁlling
quickly, so call today! Contact
Campustundraiser. com at (888)

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas,
& Florida.

Best Parties, Best Hotels,
Best Prices!

Group Discounts, Group
organizers travel free!
Space is lin1ited! Hurry up
& Book Now!
1-800-234-7007
www.endlesssummertours.com

  

Jfharfy Mhaye
£12 it/hCraer€en

Catherine Oz/erenrf
Mara jaeoh fﬁanhin

J31 astirz jeott
ﬂlhson jefho
Qann Jyrrzanofa
Meh’s5a Qizfhert
Kathryn Tenzph
ﬂaphne Trainor
ﬂlrhhy Trice
Zhanor ‘I/I/z'[h'arn5

““°:,‘;;f,:,f’,j;."j,,‘;{,,;f§,;’,f;'}';“'°"S 923-3233, or visit
Lexington, VA 24450 www.campusfundraiser.com
   4   Coryratafatzons to the            
 Zeta phage chars ‘
.3 3     of.7Ca,opa ﬂehafl
Zrta ﬂleree Matha franh/ort
Mara Jllhfnllge Manon fnerson
jaha filter/ooa’ Moe garth
Zrnih Bafhryee Coartenay ghkson
grace Barhza Cazthn Mayan
Coartnea Berg Jeanne /‘Z/anoa/eff
it/hﬂan Bzrefy Jane 5‘/enson
Jasanna Brazffonf £7!/hzoan Jhff

fl/h@ Qirozan Effie /“hnrhhy
£12 Craa/fonf .’7Cate Moaren

Cara Cronin greer Johnson

ﬁora Farris ﬁznricq Jfnezjrper

Ceha Lanrhyren

 

Vb.

 

PAGE 5

THE RlNC}—’l@\itl Pin
&LlFE

Man behindswitchboard speaks

Sophomore weekend security dispatcher discusses freshmen in towels, Asian Studies, and 50 hard-boi/ed eggs

BY Mmnsw A COURSEN
W&LlFE EDITOR

On most Saturday mornings, you can
ﬁnd sophomore Colin Harding sitting in the
Security ofﬁce on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of GrahaIn—
Lees. Since September, Colin has worked
the 8-4 shift at the Security Switchboard.
The Rockville, Md. native and independent
enjoys the surprisingly good wage it pays
despite the unenviable hours.

Do you enjoy working this shift?

Well, it is one of the most undesirable
shifts, but I love the job. I was built for this
job.

What do you mean?
My ass was made for sitting for eight
straight hours.

What speciﬁcally does your job entail?
I work the switchboard, dispatch offic-
ers, and answer calls.

Who is your favorite officer?
I’d probably have to say Larry Stuart.

Are you also a big fan of the Redskins
like Larry and myself?

Yes, one of the biggest. Over the break,
I went down to New Orleans to visit a friend,
and we ended up scalping some cheap tick-
ets to the Saints/Skins game at the
Superdome. It was great. Skins crushed
‘em

Wow, sounds like a great time. VW1at is
the strangest phone call you ’ve ever re-
ceived while on duty here?

A Well, the strangest phone call is also my

*.

it

favorite call of the year. This kid called up
and was very angry because he had locked
himself out of his room after taking a
shower. So he was just in a towel, freezing
cold, without a key. What was so strange
was that he acted like he was angry at me,
as if it was my fault he forgot his key. He
demanded that I do something right then
and there, so I called Larry [Stuart] and told
him to help the kid out.

That ’s pretty funny. What is your major?
East Asian studies.

Oh, wow! How ’d you get interested in
that .7

      

" nu. R

5 hurt"

FIELD OF DREAMS. Sophomore Colin Harding enjoys some free time away from the security switchboard.

Well, I just enjoy it. I would like to visit
Japan soon.

Do you think you ’ll go abroad?
Yeah, actually, I think I’m going to Ja-
pan this spring.

What prompted you to come to
W&L?

My dad fell in love with the school,
and I like it too. I’m very happy here.

How does it feel being independent at
a time like this when most kids on campus
are involved with formal rush?

I just sleep a lot more. V

So you don ’t mind being an indepen-
dent?

No, not now. It was harder last year, but
now it’s ﬁne. Give it a week, and you can go
to all of the parties anyway.

That’s very true. Do you know a lot of
freshman this year?

Yeah, I know some, from East Asian
studies classes.‘  . _  _

Do you think there’s a diﬁerence in the
attitude of some of the freshmen with re-
gard to the new alcohol policy compared
to your feeling last year?

I don’t think the kids are scared of
the new policy. I just think the school
has been trying to draw a lot more inde-
pendent students to W&L resulting in a
decreased participation in the Greek sys-
tem. I think the administration has been
trying to even out the percentage a little
bit.

What do you do on your free time?
I like to mess around with my computer
and play the guitar.

Oh, you ’re a musician?
Well, self-taught, I’m still learning.

Whats your favorite song to play?
I like to play “Butterﬂy” by Weezer.

Can you tell me the most inter-
esting fact about you that nobody
else knows?

Yeah, It’s a funny story. When-
ever I say that I can do something,
my dad responds with a movie
quote from Cool Hand Luke that
goes; “Yeah, well I can eat 50 eggs.”
About two summers ago, I was
watching “Cool Hand Luke” with
my dad and after it was over, I
looked at him and said, “I think I
could do that.”

 

What? Eat 50 eggs?
Yeah, so I did.

You ate 50 raw eggs?
No, no. I ate 50 hard-boiled eggs.

Wow.’ How long did it take you?

About 4 hours. I didn’t want to throw it
all up, so I took my time.

Whatdidyourdad say after you ﬁnished ?

[Laughing] He said, “Don’t ever tell any-
one that story !”.

MATIHEW COURSEN&CATHERlNE GUY ,-
W&I.lPEED1’IORS

EMAH;(DlJl2SENl\l@WilJ.EDU&GUY(@WlU.El)U

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2002

‘Rings’reviewed

If you’re looking for my pick for the best picture of 2001,
Peter Jackson’s “Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring”
may be it. Packed with an all-star cast and stunning visuals,
“Lord of the Rings” may forever change the way we see the
fantasy genre, much the same way Tolkien’s epic changed the
world of fiction.

The ﬁlm centers on the idea
that even the smallest among us
may be called upon to do great
things. And that everyone, no
matter how insigniﬁcant, has an
important place in the world.
When Frodo Baggins, a young
hobbit who lives in the peace-
ful and idyllic world of the shire,
receives a magic ring from his
uncle, he is swept up in an epic
quest to destroy the ring and
restore peace in an ancient king-
dom.

Though Director Peter
Jackson could have easily
made a film that few understood, “Lord of the Rings” is not
difficult to follow. Every scene and situation is both com-
plex and thought provoking. I left the movie wanting to
read every book written by Tolkien and see all of J ackson’s
films. I saw this movie twice, and each time I noticed differ-
ent details and themes that moved me.

For me, the mark of a great film is when you can watch a movie
again and again and continue to find interesting things about it
each time. “Lord of the Rings” is one such ﬁlm.

The ﬁlm stars Elijah Wood, Sir Ian McKellen, Ian Holm, Sean
Astin and numberous talented actors. Each character has a fasci-
nating story and each actor played his or her part well. There is a
tendency in fantasy ﬁlms to overact, just look at “Beastmaster”,
but this ﬁhn was honest and thoughtful in its portrayals. This
picture cast aside every prejudice I had about fantasy ﬁlms. The
character Gollum, a former keeper of the ring whose need for the
ring’s power consumes him, particularly fascinated me. Gollum is
an intriguing character who exempliﬁes the dangers of our needs
and desires.

I did have a few problems with the film though. Some of the
scenes were sentimental to the point of being hokey. I was
most concerned with the natural progression of the film. It is
basically split in half, with one part of the film centering on
Frodo’s ﬂight to safety and the other the beginning of his
quest to destroy the ring. You get the sense that the film could
end halfway through, and that you are seeing two movies rolled
into one.

Despite this small critique, Jackson’s visual direction is
stunning. Each scene inspired emotion without using words.
I actually felt the emotions of the characters and was fright-
ened or happy with them. Jackson’s film sucks you into an-
other world, a world so rich and textured that you feel easily
a part of it. Touching on basic human themes that inspire
and compel, “Lord of the Rings” is a film you can’t afford to
miss.

1’! Z’¢?a‘a Ta/1

Lﬂlilﬂiﬂl .7lQL7l9\/I3
/‘2l‘ZlQ)9{‘£9’ Q3£9\rsaroo¢

?(9{9’5'I19\[a Q39{o‘W9\[
?(1M23£:r{L9* Q3t1L9(a

KRISTINE CﬂlLQ)Z9{O9\[£
Jasarroxrcrz Caux

Racarec CJ{15o'L:M

félmirmraxrz Damraarr

.’HILL,‘?l9{f)’ Daﬁllaaar
Latina faaaacc

 

  7/I//5a/2:5 T0 ‘kl/zxcoa/a /:73 2002 fczbga" CZ/"155

£:7{I9\[ fHaM1LTo9\[
Cﬂl‘I9{£9{I£7\[£ Joaragsrroar
Lama Kira
KELL £9’ 91/[ag1LL
C9{9{I5‘TI:7\[£ 9i/[C/‘Zlf7\[‘llLQf)’
Lisa fll/[ILL£9{
joasirara Taarsro
£LIZ52lQ3£‘I9{ £Po9\[93£:r{

5 tzsaai Soaraas
Tagz Taroovbais

000000O00000OOOOCOO00000OO00000O000000O000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCCO&6VFWff‘9000000000000O00000OOOOCCOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 

 

 

   

PAGE 6    M  H ‘ MONDAY, IANUARY 14, 2002

       

  
 

 

 
 

Chi Omega Welcomes Our New Sustersgi
     Peggy Altman Sahar Kamali Katherine Sharpe 
 Emily Barker Elizabeth King Joy Simon 
 Anne Bounds Christina Kolock Casey Sharpe 

 Megan Brooks Kara Lehman Brittany Smith 
 McQueen Calvert Heather McArthur Liz Tessier §’l
 Bethany Catron Marisa Meyer Ann Tompkins 
 Richele Cole Rebecca Parker Marie Trimble §.
 Meredith Donegan Emily Patterson Jill Waity 
 Ruth Esponda Allison Perry Katie Wall 
 Alexis Fernandez Anne Raff Katherine Wang 
 Adrienne Fleurke Justine Sessions Laura Westerman 
 Mary ahn   '  H ‘ Dianne Winter 
 Emily owe    Megan Zingarelli 

A

Y’

W

1;.“

Y

TE-iii RI:»st};s~Tr,?:I\

:MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2002

 Loss is 5th in 6 games for

 young Genera/s team

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

After an overtime win against
:“'Eastern Mennonite on Wednes-
»day, the Washington and Lee
_men’s basketball team suffered
Qthrough a pair of home losses over
"the weekend.

 Sunday’s 78-51 defeat at the
‘hands of nationally-ranked
Hampden—Sydney (13-1, 7-1 Old

0 " Dominion Athletic Conference) left

5

i

A

Q

It

$

3, 

A,

0

the Generals 2-6 in the ODAC, 4-9
':‘overall.
I Third-year head coach Jeff
;,Lafave believes his team’s primary
problems at the season’s midway
’ point are depth and the lack of a true
big man.
“We’ve got to have more depth.
You can’t play the game of basketball
' with six guys,” Lafave said. “We don’t
have a starting center who can come
up and play.”
Mike Stuart set a W&L freshman
record for points in a game against
~ Eastern Mennonite, draining 33 on
11-of- 16 from the ﬂoor, 7-of-10 from
3 three-point range. The Generals built
a 13-point halftime lead, but a sec-
ond-half charge by the Royals forced
“overtime.
 Stuart scored 12 points in the ex-
‘Ftra frame, as W&L eked out a 76-73
...win. Junior Scott Hettermann added
”’17 points for the Generals, and
classmate John Warren finished
with 12.

W&L let another big halftime
lead slip away against Lynchburg in
.a 75-71 loss on Saturday. The Gen-
erals had a 31-19 lead at the 4:11
~,-mark of the first half and were still

up by a comfortable 35-28 margin at
the break.

\ However, despite career scoring
nights for Hettermann at 25 points and

' freshman Ian McClure at 17, a 15-2

‘ 1

Q

‘

 

A9?)

 PORTS
‘;:,Hampden-Sydney hnls WL

 

I Pnr

l\l’\RY Gu'/ Te Ring-tum P/11'

ROYAL PERFORMANCE: Freshman Mike Stuart (23) set a Washington and Lee record for most points by a first-year player in
the Generals’ 76-73, overtime win over Eastern Mennonite at the Warner Center on Wednesday. Freshman Mark Franceski
(54) and juniors Scott Hettermann (24) and John Warren trail the play.

second-half run by the Hornets gave
them the lead for good. Lynchburg
shot 65 percent from the ﬁeld after
halftime. V

“Over the course of a 40-minute
game. you know you’re going to give
up some points,” Lafave said. “But if
we score 71 points, we should win the
game at home with the way we play
defense.”

The coach was still pleased with
the performance of Hettermann, who
hit 11 of his 15 field goal attempts and
grabbed seven rebounds.

“We know Scott’s going to be a
warrior,” Lafave said. “He’s going

to play hard for us all the time. He
was playing against a guy he could
score on, so we knew we could get
him the ball.”

Hampden—Sydney never trailed in
a 78-51 win in the Warner Center on
Sunday, opening up a 10-0 lead over
the game’s first 4:21. The Generals
kept within striking distance until the
ﬁnal stretch of the half, but the Tigers
outscored W&L 19-5 over the last
5:52 to build an insurmountable 37-15
halftime lead.

The Generals didn’t help their
cause on the offensive end, turn-
ing the ball over 10 times and shoot-

ing 22 percent from the ﬂoor prior
to the break.

Freshman Mark Franceski led
W&L with 12 points, while sopho-
more Hamill Jones added 10. Matt
McKeag and Jason Holman led the
Tigers with 16 apiece.

“We couldn’t make shots,” Lafave
said. “You can play hard, but if you
can’t make baskets, you can’t win.
We’ll keep working at it. The kids
played with effort, and that’s all you
can ask.”

W&L returns to ODAC play with
a 7 p.m. road contest against Guilford
on Wednesday.

  

  

JE.REMYl“RANKll1\l

SPORTS EDITOR
EllAll.'PRAl\ll<lll\ll@\ll/1lJ.EDL'
PAGE 7

Generals knock off Wasps,
even record in ODAC play

W&L builds 3-game conference winning streak

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After a disappointing home loss
to Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence—leading Bridgewater on Jan.
5, a game in which the women’s
basketball team held a lead for part
of the second half, coach Janet
Hollack gave her team some advice
for big games.

“I told them not to feel like an
underdog,” Hollack said. “Some-
times we get too tight and lose our
focus when we see who’s across
the court. We need to simply play
our game and focus on our of-
fense.”

The W&L (6-6, 4-4 ODAC) of-
fense, led by senior center Megan
Babst’s 34 points, responded to the
challenge by upsetting Emory and
Henry (8-4, 5-3), 77-62, on Satur-
day and opening up a three- game
winning streak. The Generals eas-
ily rolled past Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College and Virginia
Wesleyan earlier in the week.

In Saturday’s impressive vic-
tory over the Wasps, Babst shot
13-of—l9 from the ﬁeld and also hit
8-of-9 from the free throw line. Her
34 points also put her over the
1,000 point mark for her career,
making her only the fourth woman
in W&L history to reach that pla-
teau.

Babst’s performance mirrored
the strong shooting day that the
Generals enjoyed. After focusing
on shooting drills throughout the
practice week, W&L shot 55 per-
cent from the ﬁeld (27-of-49) and
took advantage of their trips to the
charity stripe, making 22-of-23."

Senior forward Jessica Mentz
added 20 points and 10 rebounds for
the Generals, while freshman guard

Bethany Dannelly dished out nine as-
sists.

The trip to Emory proved to be a key
game for W&L after wins over two rela-
tively weak teams in the ODAC.

In Thursday’s 54-39 defeat of
winless Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College, the Generals led the entire
way, starting the game on an 8-0 run
before leading at halftime, 30- 15.

Babst paced W&L with 20 points
and 12 rebounds.

Thursday’s action proved to be a
little more exciting, as the Generals
held off a ﬁrst-half surge by Virginia
Wesleyan to coast to a 59-44 victory.

A quick 10-4 run to begin the game
was negated by the Marlins, who took
a 21-20 lead late in the ﬁrst half. W&L,
however, fought back and went on a
21-7 run that spanned both halves.

The Generals took advantage of
their trips to the foul line, shooting 77
percent by hitting 24 of their 31 at-
tempts. Babst led the way with 22
points and 11 rebounds, while senior
Sarah Schmidt added 12 points.

In earlier action over winter break,
W&L defeated non-conference oppo-
nent Greensboro 71-40 on Jan. 2, but
suffered a difﬁcult loss to conference
foe Eastern Mennonite 56-52 on Jan.
4, despite holding the top scorer in
Division IH, Emily Mullet, to only four
points.

The Generals next play host to
Lynchburg on Wednesday night in an
important game following Saturday’s
victory.

“We need to display consistency
with the game plan and execute all
parts very well,” Hollack said.

“The ﬁve seniors have brought it
to my attention that they, above all,
want to work on consistency,” the
second—year coach added. “Hopefully,
we can send them out while fulﬁlling
this goal.”

      

noutLn"roﬁﬁr:'
 ._ . .-

Kristin

Congratulations to the
002 Pledge Class
of Kappa Kappa Gamma!!!!!

Patricia Ballantyne
Ann Stewart Banker

Collins

Caroline Crawford
Amelie Eagan
Ana Estrada
Carol Estrada
Catie Fox-
Christine Fritz
Leah Greenberg
I Kim Gunst
Carli Hague

Carolyn

Harrolc

Meg Haston
Katie Henderson
Marriott Horton

Alison Irvin

Nisha Kaul

Emily Larish
Meredith Marks
Kemp McDonough

Tricia Moore
Katherine Mullen

Sarah

Orvin

Priscilla Powell

Kenda.l Priddy
Kiersten Salander
Kim Sanford
Allison Santoro
Maggie Speasmaker
Marian Steele
Catherine Stroud
Laurie Timmons
Catherine Turner
Meredith Walker
Romney Willson
Elizabeth Wilson

 

 

PAGE 8

   

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2002

  

   
  
   
     
    
 

      

     

  
     

 

4.
I I
W&L opens New Year on mats Swimmers Splll road W&LSP°RlsJA~- 15-28 ‘
_  »   I Wednesday, Jan. 16 Men's Basketball
F“°”ST“"R"°“TS £1 ‘ " l   C  Men’s Basketball Ra”d°lPll-MaoonatW&L7P.m. '*

The Washington and Lee wrestling ' W&L at GUlll0|'d. 7 Pm-
team began the New Year with the BY MICHAEL LEE Women’s Basketball Wednesday, Jan. 23 ’
Gettysburg Quadrangular before drop- S W Lynchburg at W&L, 7 p.m. Men’s Basketball ,
ping a home meet against Muhlenberg PORTS RITER W&L at Emory and Henry, 7 p.m.
Wednesday and competing in the WASHINGTON—Saturday morning, as Kappa Friday, Jan. 18 Women’s Basketball It
Ursllllls lnvllalmllal Satulday- Kappa Gamma pledges were pelted with water balloons Women’s Basketball Gullford at W&L, 7 p.m.

At the Gettysburg Quad On 1311- 5» from the Gilliam dormitory, the Generals’ swimtearns were Hollins at W&L, 7 p.m. -
the Generals lest le Gettysburg and boarding the bus for their trip to Catholic University. January 25-26 ‘‘
Pensacola Christian and Picked UP all Just minutes from the Pentagon, the men’s team de- Saturday, Jan. 19 Indoor Track
unciiflvcvizll I:/ichiry ;1ver Daéledson). feated the Cardinals 135-67, while the women dropped wresﬂing W&L at Christopher Newport hr

,5 OSS t° “VS mg’ 3 131-74 CleClSl0n- W&L Invitational 10 a.m. Swimming

.fr°S.hm:ln Blrnlan A: $10 (£157 pﬁunds)’ Junie‘ Patllel‘ Flankfen We“ the 200 _ll“ll"ld“al med‘ Women’s Basketball W&L vs. Johns Hopkins and

_]111'110I‘ ex oor( )an sop ornore ley and the 500 freestyle, and swam with sophomores W&L at Roanoke_ 5:30 p_m_ Mary Washington, TBA

-lee Mueller (184) defeated lllell OP" Drew Catanese and Eric Ritter and senior Rick Black to 5
ponents. Seniors Ivan Zdanov (174) win the 400 medley relay

and l1eaV)’Welglll Mall -laeebs W011 ....... .. For the women, senior Laura Ingoldsby won the   26 ?
by f°l'fell- 1,000 freestyle, and junior Kelli Austin took second in . . ‘

Poor was the only General to score / _ A the 100 and 200 freest 16 events VlrglnlaWesleyanatW&L,1 p.m. W&L Quadrangular, 11 a.m. .
a victo in Pensacola Christian’s 43- MW Gm M Rmgmi Pl” ’ ' y I ‘ - - w°men’5 Basketball "

. ry . ATTACKING STANCE: Senior 125—p0uncler Ben Segal (left) prepares to lock up with The men 5 team Improved to 3'2 with the Wm’ Whlle Monda Jam 21 W&L at Brid ewater 4 pm.
3 Wm‘ Flve W&L Wrestlers were Muhlenber ’s Brian Marcotulli in Wedncsda "5 Centennial Conference match the Women dropped to 6'3‘ - y-’ g ’
pinned in the defeat. g ‘ l ‘ ' The Generals rennn to action on Monday night’ Swlmmlng Men’s Basketball 4

The third match for W&L was a 24- Zdanov won his match by pinfall, Pa., on Saturday. Zdanov recorded a when they host Grove City at Twombly P001 at 6 p_m_ Ma"Ym°'~"ll al W&L: 5 P-m- Fl°an°ke at W&L» 7 W"-

15 win against Division I Davidson. and Mueller picked up a win at the second-place finish at 174, while A
However, the victory was unofficial, as 184—pound class. They were the only Mueller placed third at 184.
Davison did not have enough wrestlers. Generals (1-3, 0-2 Centennial) to record Poor and freshman Walt Hoyt also _

Wednesday’s return home wasn’t victories. won a match apiece, both at the 165- A V
kind to the Generals, as Muhlenberg W&L took abreak from team com— pound class, for the Generals, who
handed them a 40-9 loss in Centen- petition with the individual-only host the W&L Invitational at 10 a.m. . ' A .*
nial Conference competition. Ursinus Invitational in Collegeville, Saturday.   ag ,

O
ASS1StaHt l3.CI'OSS€ CO21Cl1 I1ElII1€(l Osition 0 en 9
f I - “I am excited about Ricky working with our players » l
  I t 9 because of his enthusiasm and background in the sport of  3 - - - - - -
. t t t t t H  lacrosse” he Said. yOll I6 1IllI6I'CSt€Cl 1I1 lOg1St1CS, orgamzatron, "
resigns 0 accep op pos a am on n . .
e move comes after assistant football and ass1s— and  Cash
FROM STAFF REPORTS tant men’s lacrosse coach Gene McCabe resigned to be- 5
come head lacrosse and assistant football coach at email  @  ed“

Washington and Lee has added another component of Hamilton College. .
Limestone’s 2000 Division II National Championship team I 1. V
to its men’s lacrosse staff, as Ricky Matthews was named     A 
assistant coach this week. 4’

Matthews played for new W&L head coach Mike The soccer season is long over, but accolades are still H’  , — ,_

Cerino at Limestone, where he also served as offensive trickling in for the W&L Women’s team. A A "3    . .
coordinator and face-off unit coach last season for a team Senior midfielder Kate Bidwell and sophomore   The Pm mourns the passing i‘
that lost in the national title game. forward Fontaine Marcoux were named to the “Menu , _ of Dave Thomas h

“We are fortunate to have someone of Ricky’s stature National Soccer Coaches Association of America IAMAIW‘ founder of Wendy,5 Old Fashloned Hamburgers 4'
working with us at W&L,” athletics director Mike Walsh Al1—South Women’s Soccer Team as Second Team ‘f,‘{’¢{’,;,“f,‘}',i _____._
said. “He is an accomplished player who is anxious to selections. , )'
begin a successful coaching career. We are pleased to Bidwell, athree-time Third Team choice, scored 10 spmhhhenx
welcome Ricky to our department and men’s lacrosse goals and notched four assists for a team that went 11- . E ' T
Program-” 4-1 and lost to Roanoke in the Old Dominion Athletic   G’  . . .

Cerino believes that adding a former player to his staff Conference Tournament semiﬁnals. WWWSPRIGBRERKDIRECIEUM 4.
will “bring some familiarity to the program because of our Marcoux had six goals to go along with a school-record I
pas,  ,0ge,her_.. lzassistsinznnn 800.367. 1252

4
J
Kappa Alplla l ll€ta proudly ’

 
 
 

-1

presents and welcomes ‘N
our new members for 2002! *

 

Rebecca Merritt «
Kitt Murphy «
Adrienne Norwood *
Cristin Nunez ,
Lauren Partridge  
Molly Plummer
Erin Rathbone
Annie Rochfort *
Alexis Roosth ,
Alex Schaerrer 
Emily Wolfing .*

Elizabeth Falco
Tasia Fisher
Charlotte Grumly
Lindsey Hagerman
Blake Hastings
Ginny Helms
Natalya Hoobchaak
Maggie Hope
Anne Idsal
Anne Johansen
Amanda Jones

Katie Abplanalp
Martha Allgood
Elizabeth Amoni
Meredith Bailey
Courtney Brent
Kristen Brown
Anne Callison
Michelle Chastain
Liz Clarke
Quintina Conway
Kristin Crawford

 

 

Bethany Dannelly Jennifer Lux Kelly Zaggl 1:
Kyle Meehan ,

 

