  

 

rF- 372 . 75 S
la 55 '1
v. I 0‘ ‘t’
V10 , T}§{§';i’> .-mu TRIE



D <1) PMII»: 3

  

.\‘ ’

       

     

 

THE

 
 

 

  

 

Yfanu

.tI>LEEll

NG—TUM

 

‘i(.}’fT{)7 

 

‘%lVERSlil"Y

JAMES‘.  t-EY:'sUHr‘~I t.-'.E.i.’~' '2,
WASHIINEVCJN -& LE Uﬂrfﬁf’

, , -.q:‘g(«2'-i-rfvgiv V’

OCT [1

PHI

   
 

2*; Y

 

2200!-

 

 

\’«:aI.:'\I.. _..‘.7  IX

 

A

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOIT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Forty—five clubs tried to crack
5 open the $366,372.13 pinata that
the Executive Committee dangled
V . at the 2001 Fall Budget Allocation
Hearings.
The E.C. is responsible for divid-
‘ ing this money, largely received from
student activities fees, among W&L’s
A g campus organizations.
The top three recipients were the
Student Activities Board, $84,707, the
‘ Student Bar Association, $56,500, and
Contact, $50,000.

. 6 Eight clubs received no funding.

The E.C. currently does not fund
groups with speciﬁc political or reli-

” gious positions. Last year, the E.C.
denied GCF funding.
‘ Other organizations, such as

LIFE, do not seek appropriations.
5 Because the club receives money from
the administration, the E.C. is reluc-

gj tant to fund it.
This may be the reason why the
Student Association for International
g Learning received about 10 percent

of its budget request, said SAIL Sec-
retary Jason Reynolds, a junior.

“We’re very disappointed,” he
said. “The E.C. expects the deans will
pay for everything.”

The organization had asked for
over $20,000, but received little more
than $2,000. Junior Agnes Flak, the
chair of SAIL who presented the
club’s budget, will meet with the ad-
ministration this week to make up the
shortfall, Reynolds said.

Other organizations are also hurt-
ing.

The Journal of Science, which
received $4780 last year, was granted
no money.

The budgets of Southern Comfort
and Women’s Club Lacrosse both went
from $1,000 to zero dollars.

Junior Neal Willetts, however,
was “extremely satisfied” with the
funding of the Calyx, the university
yearbook.

“Last year I was very nervous,
because it was my first time in an E.C
budget hearing,” he said. “This year,
I knew the format and what to expect.
It wasn’t as nerve-wracking.”

 Budgets spread thin

Executive Committee allocates over $366,000 to campus organizations

The Calyx received $9,000 ear-
marked for its standing debt. The
publication receives most of its
money through a $45 fee leveled on
all students.

“There are a number of factors
that we take in to consideration when
deciding how much money to allo-
cate,” senior Carling Dinkler, E.C.
secretary, said.

“First and foremost, we have to
see how much money we actually
have to get out,” Dinkler said.
“Then we look at how many people
are actively involved or affected by
the organization. We also take into
account how the organization has
used its money in the past (and)
what sort of revenue they produce
for themselves.”

The process takes 12 to 14 hours,
over two days, Dinkler said. ‘‘It is
time consuming, strenuous and, at
times, frustrating.”

“I really do not think that the stu-
dents understand the amount of work
put into the budget,” Dinkler said. “I
know that I did not before I was
elected to the E.C.”

* Frsmen to choose class reps

 

in finding ways to win the approval and
votes of their classmates.

Some of this year’s freshmen said that they
would not vote because they did not know the
candidates. They agreed that this was one of

the serious ﬂaws of the election process.

“(The candidates) use the posters to get
their name out,” said Justin Baccary, a candi-
date for the executive committee position.

Many candidates and voters share the
opinion that it would have been better if
the candidates were given the chance to
make speeches to express their views.

‘‘It seems that these elections are a
matter of popularity, rather than real quali-
fication,” said one freshman.

“I understand your concern that your
classmates don’t know each other well
enough yet to make an informed decision,”
Hamil responded. “However, it is necessary
to fill these positions as soon as possible
so that their work can begin. Hopefully the
election itself will stimulate cohesion

The qualities that freshmen said they are
looking for in their future representatives are

most often honesty, sincerity, responsibility

and good organizational skills.

“I hope that these people are really will-
ing to contribute to our community and (that)
they are not just trying to improve their re-
sume,” said another freshman.

Election results are expected by Tues-

V 
 BY VIRGINIA VESELINOVA
V STAFF WRITER
Election time is here again. The annual elec-
~ tions for freshman president vice president ex-
‘ ecutive committee representative and student
judicial council representative are going to be
held tomorrow in Evans Dining Hall.
§ Freshmen will be able to vote during the
D-Hall’s regular working hours. This year,
there are four candidates for president, two for
# vice president, seven for EC rep and Ill for
SJC rep.
All entrants had to petition for candi-
" dacy by collecting the signaturesiof 50 of
their classmates. Once they received sup-
‘ port from their classmates, they could start
campaigning.
Votin Regulations Board co—chair
8
‘ Joseph Hamil, a sophomore, explained the
rules of the campaignin process: cam-
g
j A‘ paign signs are to be no larger than 8.5 by
11 inches; signs may not be posted adja-
cent to each other to create larger si ns; within the class.”
8
5 signs may not be posted on the Colonnade,
trees, the ground or on glass of any sort.
Each candidate is limited to 15 signs and
V the total campaign expenditures must not
exceed $20 per candidate.
4 The election campaign started last
week when the walls of the dormitories and
‘ jg}, BROOKS/Tb, R,',,g_,,,,,, p;,, the dining hall were covered with various
PICKME! Political hopefuls accost students exiting the D—Hallwith campaign P°5teT5- A 50Ph0m01'Cs h0W€V6f, Sald that
‘ promises. Sophomores say last year’s campaigns were more creative. thc Candidates last Year were mm‘: CreatiVe day. 10 P-UL

. W&L goes Global

, New academic program scheduled to begin Fall 2002

4 BY MIKE AGNELLO
A ‘ ASSOCIATE EDITOR
‘- The new Global Stewardship

Program, designed to augment inter-
( national studies at Washington & Lee,
will debut next fall.

The program will fund additional
courses, speakers and study abroad
programs. Students interested in in-
_temational affairs will have the option
of earning a certificate in global stew-
ardship in addition to their chosen
degree. Associate Professor of R0-
mance Languages Jeff Barnett was re-
cently named to head the program.
Barnett declined to be interviewed for
this article.

Director of International Educa-
tion William Klingelhofer said the
program will expand W&L’s already
sizable course catalogue.

“(The Global Stewardship pro-
gram) will offer more curricular op-
tions,” Klingelhofer said.

According to the program’s web
site, students interested in earning the
certificate would apply at the end of
their freshman or sophomore year. If
accepted, they would take two “foun-
y dation courses.” The first course will

focus on geography and culture and
examine human impact on the envi-

&

ronment. The second course will
cover environmental and political
problems facing the world in the 21st
century.

During the sophomore or junior
year, students will be required to
choose a specific interest or region
of the world to study. Candidates for
the certificate will also be required
to take at least one language course
at the 300 level.

During the junior or senior
year, students will be have to study
or work abroad for at least a 12-
week semester. After returning to
W&L, they would complete a
“capstone seminar” and present a
research paper.

The program also includes a
“Global Learning Initiative” de-
signed to add specialized classes to
the curriculum and bring speakers to
campus. Faculty would apply for
“Global Course Development
Grants” to fund the added costs. The
program is primarily funded by a
$525,000 grant from the Christen A.
Johnson Endeavor Foundation, given
last year.

Klingelhofer said he is excited
about the new program.

“It moves us forward in a very
positive direction,” he said.

OPEN CAVITY

HEADS DOWN. Construction in front of the Warner Center last week tore up the
gymnasium, leaving holes gaping and wires exposed to the forces of nature.

 

je RoORs/ re rig-rm /iz

I.\lFOGMPHlC BY KATIE How I./The Ring-rim Plii, Photos courtesy’ of '1‘luC'Iz_ly.\-

New organizations
emerge on campus

Special interests (range from religion to human rights

BY KATIE HOWELL
LAYOUT EDITOR

Following in the tradition of
other student organizations on cam-
pus, students have established new
clubs this fall, including The Chal-
ice, Photography Club and United
Students Against Sweatshops.

The founders of the new orga-
nizations found the nature of Wash-
ington and Lee’s student-run gov-
ernment and organizations allowed
for easy creation and assimilation
into W&L campus life. Freshman
Susan Somers, who founded United
Students Against Sweatshops
(USAS), said this lack of bureau-
cratic red tape surprised her.

“So far, all I have done to estab-
lish this group has been to send out
interest surveys by campus notices,”
Somers said. “It has been really easy
and I have gotten response from
many students.”

Somers said W&L needed a
USAS group because many students
are not aware of sweatshop and labor
problems in this country and around
the world. She hopes the new organi-
zation will help to spread awareness
to the W&L community.

Somers said approximately 10
people have expressed interest in

Cadet re

BY LATRINA STOKES
AssIsTANT NEWS EDITOR

Today the Virginia Military In-
stitute released a statement regard-
ing the final disciplinary action of
three frrstclass cadets, whose punish-
ment divided administration and
Corps.

. Two weeks ago, three cadets
were dismissed and one other sus-
pended for improper conduct during
the training and discipline of first-
year cadets, or “rats.”

Two of the dismissed cadets were
on the Rat Disciplinary Committee,
one being its president. The third was
the president of the Honor Court.

After the cases were reviewed,
one cadet was reinstated last week,
said Cadet Capt. Michael Zanetti,
“with very stiff penalties.”

The public relations office
would not comment on the fate of the
other two cadets.

In a show of defiance and dis-
agreement with how the cases were
handled, the Corps nearly employed

USAS and the group plans on hold-
ing their first organizational meeting
sometime next week.

“On a long-term basis,” she
said, “some projects we might
want to attempt include trying to
get the campus bookstore to sell
only sweat—free clothing and
products.”

Somers said USAS often works
in coalition with other campus
groups such as the Minority Stu-
dents Association, Gay/Straight Stu-
dent Alliance or with women’s
groups. .

USAS believes these organiza-
tions would be interested in discuss-
ing sweatshop issues because the
groups often have specific needs re-
garding sweatshops.

“Women that are employed in
sweatshops are often more abused
than other employees; therefore, a
women’s organization on campus
might be interested in discussing these
issues,” she said.

Somers hopes to form different
groups within the organization that
can talk about different issues relat-
ing to domestic sweatshops. She said
that later the group might address
issues of worldwide sweatshops.

SEE CLUBS, PAGE 2

admitted

a rarely-used bargaining tool, the
“step-off.” During a step—off, the
Corps refuses to obey all administra-
tive procedure.

The Honor Court also an-
nounced that it would prosecute
honor violations but refused to con-
duct routine status checks of proper
attire or “rat knowledge.” In addi-
tion, it would not enforce confine-
ment to the post until fellow cadets
were reinstated.

Although this situation caused a
rift, a kind of solidarity remains.

“Our attitude is one of family,”
Zanetti said. If the Corps of Cadets
have a problem then they can
wrangle with their superiors until it
gets solved as will the administration
with them.

“But when the rest of the world
gets involved we put aside our dif-
ferences and become a unified fam-
ily.”

The cadets are now putting ev-
erything behind them as the situa-
tion becomes resolved and order re-
turns, Zanetti said.

 

 

 

    

Tuesday blasting to disrupt PhoneMai/

Tomorrow from 10 a.m. to noon, construction crews
will be blasting away rock at the site of the University
Commons, next to Grahatn—Lees.

The PhoneMail system will be taken out of service
starting at approximately 9:45 a.m. and continue until after
the test blast is complete. During this outage, PhoneMail
will not answer calls or otherwise be functional. Phones
will ring until answered or the caller hangs up. Ifthe line is
being used, the caller will receive a busy signal.

A siren will announce a warning ﬁve minutes before the
blast and follow with three shorter signals one minute before.

/nteitaith breakfast serves up unity

The National Conference for Community and Justice
will sponsor its annual Interfaith Breakfast at the Vinton
Baptist Church on October 16th in Vinton, Va. (near
Roanoke) from 7:15 to 9 a.m.

Contact Dean Courtney Penn for more information.

Free food for women by women

The Women’s Forum is having its annual faculty-
student dinner on Tuesday from 5:30 to 7 p.m. in Gaines
Gatehouse. The event is designed to allow both women
students and faculty to get to know one another in a ca-
sual setting. All campus women are invited.

Fundraiser succeeded

The car wash, sponsored by the Kappa Alpha frater-
nity and Kappa Alpha Theta sorority, raised $300 for the
New York and Washington relief funds. Patrons paid $5 to
have their cars washed at the freshman parking lot last
Saturday. Both organizations would like to thank every-
one who participated in the fundraiser.

A/umni band goes big time

Alumni band Ringsend recently made the Richmond
Times-Dispatch with news of the group’s first album, “Ver-
tigo.” Chris Edwards, Anthony Allen, Chris Tully and Josh
Harvey released their first CD this weekend.

Playing together for almost two years, the members
made a recent move to Richmond to become full—time mu-
sicians. They started playing fraternity parties and local
clubs. Now the group hopes to make a splash on the re-
gional music scene.

W&L junior’s car burgled

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
STAFF WRITER

The past week has been a rather
traumatic one for junior Neal Willetts.
In addition to having the usual stress
of classes, he has also had to deal
with a case of losing his identity.

Willetts attended tailgate Satur-
day, Sept. 22, while his Jeep Wrangler
was parked with the top down in front
of Fairfax Lounge on Washington St.
In his Jeep were two items of value: a
black Eddie Bauer leather backpack,
and inside of it, his wallet. His wallet
had $2, his credit card, checkbook,
driver’s license, W&L ID and Social
Security card.

When Willetts returned to his
car and noticed that his bag was
missing, he was neither surprised
nor worried. He ﬁgured he hadn’t
brought his bag with him. After
searching for the bag, however, he

discovered that it was nowhere to
be found.

“I frantically retraced my steps,
driving all over Lexington to every
place I thought I could have con-
ceivably left it,” Willetts said.

Unfortimately, his search bore no .
fruit. After calming himself, he realized
that he had left the bag in the back of
his Jeep after all, leading him to con-
clude that his bag had been stolen.

He alerted University Security,
canceled his credit card and stopped
payment on all remaining checks in
his account. He then began the pro-
cess of obtaining new ID cards and
replacing his credit card, checkbook
and other missing documents.

The credit cards and check-
book were easy to replace, as were
his insurance cards and medical pre-
scription cards. Not so easy was his
driver’s license, for which he needed
proof of identity.

  
  
   
     
   
    
  
     
    
    
  
 

MONDAY. OCTOBER 1. 2001

“It was a Catch—22 situation.
where to obtain one very important
proof of identity, I needed others that
I didn’t have either,” Willetts said.

Fortimately, Willetts’ mother sent
him his birth certiﬁcate, along with oop-
ies of his tax forms from last year, al-
lowing himto obtain his driver’s license.

Willetts has now recovered all
of his replaceable documents, and
the $2 cash is no significant loss.
Gone, however, is his faith in the
honor system.

“I have now become tyrannical
about things I wouldn’t have been
before like locking my car and leav-
ing my things lying around,” he said.

Willetts still hopes that the
thief will come forward and return
his belongings. Anybody with any
information of what happened or
the whereabouts of Willetts’ pos-

sessions is encouraged to contact 4

University Security.

CLUBS from page 1

Photography Club founder sopho-
more Emily Taylor also found the W&L
environment an easy place to create a
club based on her interests.

The Photography Club began in
much the same way as USAS, and it
plans to help people get access to dark-
room facilities, learn to develop photos
in a darkroom and help people grow in

photography skills through construc-
tive criticism within groups.

“We can learn through other people
and other people’s work,” Taylor said.

Based on interest shown following
publication of a campus notice regarding
the club, Taylor expects approximately 50
to 60 members to join the club by attend-
ing the frrst meeting this week.

The Photography Club also plans
to host speakers on photography from

around the Lexington area.

Taylor said.

its first meeting.

Club) will be a strong new club here,”

Students interested in participating in

“Hopefully this (Photography any of these new clubs should watch Cam-
pus Notices for news of upcoming meeting
times or sponsored events.

The Chalice, founded by junior
Laura Leigh Birdwell, is a non-denomi-
national religious organization that
will hold discussion groups for stu-
dents of any religious background to
come together. This group already held

CRIME REPORT

«.9

 

 

Today

6 a.m.——PhoneMail backup. Outage scheduled to last

until 10 a.m.

8:30 p.m.—Java at the GHQ. Alex Wilkins.
'I\1esday, Oct. 2

10 a.m.—-Construction blasting west of Graham—Lees.
Phonemail disruption expected.

Noon—Environmental Studies. Conversation with
Barry Lopez, winner of the National Book Award. Room

114, University Center.

4 p.m.—Glasgow Endowment Reading. Barry Lopez.
Northen Auditorium

5:30p.m.--Women’s Forum. Women faculty/student
dinner. Gaines Gatehouse.

6:30 p.m.—-Candlelight vigil. In support of victims and
survivors of domestic and sexual violence. Hopkin’s Green.

7 p.m.——Student technology training. Intro to
Photoshop, scanning. Tucker Multimedia Center.
Wednesday, Oct. 3

5p.m.— Health Professions Seminar. “Medical
school interviews.” Dr. Donald W. Lewis, associate dean
of admissions, Eastern Virginia Medical School. Room
214, Science Center Addition.

8.pm.-—Alcoholics Anonymous meeting. Coffee pro-
vided. Fairfax Lounge.

Thursday, Oct. 4

7 p.m.-—Russian Film Series. “Inner Circle.” In En-
glish. Room 221,Commerce School.

7 p.m.—-Student technology training. Intro to
Photoshop, scanning. Tucker Multimedia Center.

8 p.m.~——Shannon Clarke Lecture in English. Felicity

 lnolr       0lIlEl«‘0IIliIlJ-’

    

   



Lexie;-was Feel

at

WE'RE MOVING!!!
114 West Washington St.
OCTOBER 15th!!

Glow Stars, Posters, Incense,
T Candles, Scents .8: Inspiration

Beectsawﬁaubles
Cards, Statst«::nar~,r & Stickers
  a _-be-stew
Tots. Toes e Tﬁtts
casseaa. cm, Beaks E caieneztaa-s

‘U
r:
—Y
n
:5‘
Q)
in
(‘D
Q.
or
F?‘
o
C
_Y
:1
(D
E
5
n
or
E
O
:3

Learn to Pier Again

Luaii auo Aue igo iunoosip 0/002 2 Jo; ui pv sun ﬁuiig
‘U08 U0 17-ZI DUE "195-‘U0!/xi 9-OI U9dO

El;tISUt“ida;V’=$. Ctiitdt

A. Nussbaum, professor of English, UCLA. Reception

immediately following. N orthen Auditorium.
8p.m.——Concert Guild. Opera Roanoke presents

Puccini’s “Tosca.” Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.

Friday, Oct. 5

Homecoming Weekend——Full schedule online, http://

alumni.wlu.edu/homecorning.htm

N oon—Alumni Luncheon. Lee House, Front Lawn.

12: 10 p.m.—-Tucker Lecture. Jeremy Waldron, profes-
sor of law, Columbia Univ. School of Law. Moot Court
Room, Lewis Hall.

7:30 p.m.—Film Society. “Amores Perros” (Mexico,
2000). Directed by Alejandro G. Innanitu. In Spanish with
English subtitles, rated R. Troubadour Theater.
Saturday, Oct. 6

9 a.m.—“W&L Today.” Address by Acting President
Laurent Boetsch ‘69. Lee Chapel.

1 1 a.m.—Memorial Service. Lee Chapel.

7:30 p.m.—Film Society. “Amores Perros” (Mexico,
2000). Directed by Alejandro G. Innanitu. In Spanish with
English subtitles, rated R. Troubadour Theater.

Sept. 17-23 ‘
Lexington Citations:

1 litter violation

2 noise violations

Sunday, Sept. 23

Litter. Lee Chapel parking lot.

Fire Alarm. Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.
Monday, Sept. 24

Missing person. Southern Virginia Uni-
versity student reported missing, found later
that evening.

Confiscated beer bong. Pi Kappa Phi
Fraternity.

Drinking games. Phi Gamma De1taFratemity.
Thesday, Sept. 25

Fire Alarm. Woods Creek.

Drinking games. Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.
Wednesday, Sept. 26

Vehicle roll-off. Reeves Center

Confiscated drug paraphernalia. Phi
Delta Theta Fraternity.
Friday, Sept. 28

Report of possible drug use. Graham-
Lees, second ﬂoor.

Information provided
by Unversity Security.

BY GREG PEARCE
HEAD CHEF

Academic year 2001-02 is upon us and has
brought with it, many positive changes in Dining
Service. Students will notice changes in several
of the dining locations, and overall changes to
the dining options. We thought it would be help-
ful to inform the student body as to what has
been changed and the reasons for those changes.

The first is what is most obvious to ev-
eryone, the meal plan options for this year.
After careful analysis of data collected, stu-
dent surveys, focus groups, and suggestions,
we have added some “plans” that we think
will be more advantageous to the student
body as a whole.

a. There are four new “Flex” plans, the
Maj or Flex, Minor Flex, Legal Flex, and
the Greek Flex. Each plan has a mini-
mum “buy-in” developed for a specific
segment of our student body. These
plans have been very ‘popular, offering
students an option to use cash, but avoid-
ing the sales tax.

b. The Freshman 21 meal plan has been ex-
panded to allow three meals per week to
be eaten in the GHQ. We initiated this pro-
gram last year. It was so popular, we ex-
panded it from last year’s one meal allowed
there to three meals this year!

c. A student may add tax-free Dining Dollars
to any of the meal plans at their disc\r tion.

d. The 5 and 10 meal plans offered thigyear
may be used at any of our four dining s r-
vice locations.

e. Virtually every meal plan has a certain
amount of “guest meals” (Free Meals) al-
lowed to be used each term.

The menus both in the GHQ and the Snack
« Bar have somewhat reduced their offerings.

 
  

After careful analysis of product movement and

Paid Advertisement

Dining Services Moves Ahead

Campus Dining 2001-2002 game plan includes new meal plans, uniforms

participation, it was decided that certain gen-
erally unpopular item ould be eliminated from
the menus. However, each of the locations is
testing new products, attempting to offer new,
trendy items for the students. Examples of this
includes the new Riches Bake Product line
available at the Snack Bar, and other items
such as the extremely popular “Boardwalk
Fries” in every location.

The GHQ in particular has a very selec-
tive menu this year. Frankly, GHQ has not
generated much business the past few years
and was on the verge of reducing its hours of
operation, or even closing. In order to avoid
this we realized that we needed to be pru-
dent with the menu selection, scaling back in-
ventory, concentrating on what we know stu-
dents and faculty frequently ordered last aca-
demic year. Our focus in Dining Service is to
provide a positive dining experience, with
quality food, at a reasonable price. We be-
lieve that by implementing these changes we
are being pro-active in our attempts to meet
these objectives.

By October 1, 2001, all dining service per-
sonnel (with the exception of Evans Dining Hall
Culinary Staff), will appear in new uniforms. The
uniforms will be a Forest Green Polo shirt, with
khaki pants. In addition to the morale factor of
our staff we wish to create an environment
whereby all Dining Service employees are rec-
ognizable, as a team committed to serving the
dining needs of the University.

One of the most popular additions to
Dining Services, is the expanded hours at
vans Dining Hall. We now serve dinner until
'00 p.m., Sunday thru Friday, and 6:45
. on Saturday. Many of our students, in-
clu 'ng but not limited to Athletes, Student

' ricular c\:tivities.

   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
    
   
  
    
   
 
 
 

     
   
   
 
        
    
 
   
   
   
   
      
      
 
    
 
   
     
 
   
 
  

    
         
         
     
     
       
       
   
     
   

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1,2001

S‘TIi‘ElE‘liEDIToRrAL

E.C.-spawned ﬁnancial
woes write the Phi’s epic saga-

Like all mythical heroes, the staff of the
Phi wrests with fearsome monsters.

Weekly, your editorial heroes must contest
with the relentless Deadline, the odious Com-
puter Failure -and the multiheaded Tardy
Staffwriter. These ﬁghts are not bloodless: the
monsters have recently claimed a casualty, our
W&Life editor, who resigned her post to re-
turn to news writing.

None of these foul creatures compare, how-
ever, with Inadequate Financial Support, a loath-
some ogre hatched in foul union by the Student
Executive Committee and a lack of foresight.

This is not, we hasten to add, an attack on
the E.C. We have the warmest regards for those
hardworking student-servants, and the highest
hopes for a remunerative Winter Allocation.

The E.C. tests us.

We recognize this. Just as Hera tested
Hercules, Zeus Jason, and Hades Orpheus, our
divine student representatives try our mettle,
seeking to forge our greatness in a crucible of
ﬁnancial need.

These trials will not break us. Paul, our stal-
wart Business Manager, will eventually lead his
people to solvency. t

But consider the task. With printing and
photos, it costs a little more than $600 to pub-
lish every issue. Assuming that the paper can
manage its 12 issues this term, that totals $7200.
That’s a lot of ads.

Of course, the Phi could save money. We
could change the font point size from 10 to 12.
We could run poorly-developed and obscure
pictures. We could hunch over to tabloid size.
We could fire the copy and layout editors. We
could become. . .the Trident.

But there are subjects of which we should
not make light. Some things should not be joked
about, and the Phi ’s hypothetical prostitution to
convenience is one of them.

We assure our readers, of late, grown used
to superlative writing and editing, that this will
not be. I

No matter how starved the Phi is for dough,
no matter how little the allocation and how great
the neglect, we at the paper will emerge from our
tribulation battle-scarred and -hardened, ready to
deliver the latest Phi on a sea of red ink.

OTE OF THE WEEK:

CERTAINLY, YOU MUST BE
FAMILIAR WITH
“BOOTYLICIOUS.”

— ANONYMOUS PHI OPINIONS EDITOR
DISCUSSING I-IIS FAVORITE MUSIC GROUP

TEE RINGTUM PEI

PINIONS

Vote Earley

Electorally, 2001 is not a very ex-
citing year. However, come Novem-
ber, Virginians will be voting in a gu-
bernatorial election of extreme irnpor—
tance.

Even as students from across the
nation, we must be concerned and
throw our support behind Mark
Earley. First, this election is largely a
referendum on President Bush’s per-
formance. Should Mark Earley win,
Bush will be empowered to pursue his
plans to ensure America’s security.
Students who support the President’s
bold plan for reform and his deterrni—
nation to hunt down those who have
declared war on America can demon-
strate this support by voting for
Earley.

Second, the candidates represent
a very clear choice between common-
sense conservatism and gitchy- goo,
arrogant liberalism. Mark Earley, his
running mates Jay Katzen for Lieu-
tenant Govemor and Jerry Kilgore for

Attorney General, have presented an,

innovative plan for Virginia that will
get the economy rolling again, will
continue to keep us safe and will raise
the educational standards of
Virginia’s public schools.

As State Senator, a post that he
held from 1987 until 1997, Mark Earley
worked closely with George Allen to
pass welfare refonn and was the chief
legislative sponsor of major overhauls
in Virginia’s education and criminal
justice systems.

As Attorney General, Earley
pushed innovative legislation to al-
low drug addicts to sue their deal-
ers and sought to facilitate the
prosecution of child
pornagraphers (and
doesn’t that hit
close to home after
the revelation of a
VMI History professor’s alleged
trysts). In addition, Earley has been
and will continue to be a proponent
of eliminating parole for violent
criminals. ’

As governor, Earley plans to
push legislation to cut the sales tax
on food, ensure the scheduled elimi-
nation of the car tax, and work to re-

RIGHT OF THE AISLE
BRETT T. I<IRwrrN ‘O4

 

rural Virginia and in the Northern Vir-
ginia technology corridor. Most im-
portantly, Earley will bring his expe-
rience and proven leadership to the
governorship. In these trying times,
Virginians and students who face
fighting this war should support a
man who is a friend of the President
and is accustomed to
the workings of gov-
emment.

Mark Warner,
the Democratic nomi-
nee, on the other hand, has spent his
adult life as a telecommunications ex-
ecutive. His only experience was a seat
on a transportation advisory board,
where he came up with the brilliant
proposal that people take more bicycle
rides. Warner may claim in his person-
ally-ﬁnanced ads that he is ﬁscally re-
sponsible, but he has had no experi-

for Govrnr

OOLRIESYOEYOLNC. iiiiors Fi=i)ERAiioN oEViRcr\I1A'
NONE TOO SOON: Mark Earley is the right choice for these students as well as Generals.

He and his running mates repre-
sent the most liberal ticket ever pre-
sented to Virginia voters. Collectively,
they support reinstating parole for
violent crirriinals and ending the death
penalty, stopping the elimination of
the car tax and legalizing gay marriage
in Virginia.

In sum, the Democrats have
thrown up another inexperienced, im-
mensely wealthy and obscenely pre-
sumptuous candidate who is running
to fulﬁll his lust for power and control.
Note the Democratic party affiliation.

Finally, all students, regardless of
where they live during the summer
months, can seize the opportunity to
chart the course of our now—home state.
Being a W&L student fulﬁlls the resi-
dency requirement for Virginia voter reg-
istration. This writer, for one, encour-
ages every student, regardless of party

V Editor-in-chief Matt.heWB.McDermott
Associate Editor Mike Agnello
News Editor Alison Trinidad
Asst. News Editor Latrina Stokes
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor AndrewLatimer
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Layout Editor KatieHowell
Photo Editor Mar'yGuy ‘
Photographers Meg Ferrara
Jeb Brooks
Paul Seifert
William Litton
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

energize the economy, both here in

ence to prove himself.

affiliation, to exercise his franchise.

Trident sinks to new low with Jones

There is no better feeling than sitting down at dirmeitime
to enjoy a home-cooked meal while catching up on the
daily news. Last Wednesday night, however, was not one
of those nights. The Trident competes with this paper for
readers, and like this one attempts to accu— ‘
rately report the news. In this issue,’ The
Trident fell a few pegs on the ladder of
acceptable journalism and ethical decision-
making, The edition of The Trident that
came out last Wednesday and featured the journalistic
stylings of a junior named Ben Jones. To be blunt: Mr.
Jones made his debut in an impressively horriﬁc fashion.

Normally, when I read The Trident, I scan the
headlines, ﬂip the paper over, and proceed directly
to Michael Denbow’s weekly column. This time, how-
ever, my fraternity brother’s recounts of hilarity were
not in the middle of the back page as I had expected
them to be. In their place was the aforementioned
atrocity entitled, “Men, you are doomed so just give

up.”

For one thing, the entire idea for this “piece” (please
excuse the term; this is certainly not meant to be confused
with a piece of art) was plagiarized directly from the stand-
up comedy routine entitled, “I’m Telling You for the Last
Time,” by the famous actor and comedian, Jerry Seinfeld.
Most of Jones’ article was lifted from Seinfeld’s routine,
word—for-word in some instances, without even the slight-

A MATTER or FACT“
MATT COURSEN ‘03

est attempt to cite or attribute the quotes to their rightful
owner. How this article did not fall to the cutting—room
ﬂoor is beyond my comprehension. However, more blame
should be placed on The Trident’s editors than on Mr.
Jones himself. Though plagiarizing is de-
plorable, the job of an editor is to be the
“last stop” of the writing process. Unfor-
tunately, in this case, the editors failed to
recognize one of the most grievous and
inexcusable errors in all of journalism.

But I digress. The reason for this article is not to
chastise Mr. Jones or the editors of The Trident, but rather
to impress upon students how morally wrong it is to copy
someone else’s work. If you cannot think of anything co-
gent to write, please do not attempt to hide your igno-
rance by stealing someone else’s ideas and taking credit
for them. In most cases, you will be caught, and you will
appear much more foolish than had you written nothing at
all. In all seriousness, it would greatly behoove Mr. Jones
to take a course journalism ethics, so that he may learn the
error of your ways.

I am sure most of you are surprised at the level of my
apparent anger toward Mr. Jones. I implore you, do not
confuse anger with disappointment. Never before have I
seen such a blatant display of both plagiarism and unethi-
cal decision-making by a newspaper. As both a student and
a journalism major, I am disheartened and appalled .

Lettercto the Editor

Don't believe Jones’ plagarism

Dear Editor,

I am just one the many students horrified by Ben
Jones’ “Back Page” in The Trident last week. If you haven’t
seen Jerry Seir1feld’s “I’m Telling You for the Last Time,” I
would highly recommend it, though it is unfortunate that

TALKBACK:  Wh  

many of the jokes have been ruined, as Jones blatantly
plagiarized the routine for his article.

Such theft of material without mention of acknowledged
aid is ridiculous, and I urge everyone to ignore J ons when he
talks about the seven words you can’t say on TV, “creates”
a funny top ten list or regales you with delightful stories
about his life as a black obstetrcian living in Brooklyn.

Sincerely,
John Power ‘02

DREII 1. r\iRWA\'_

OIIMONS EDIIOR
EMA1l:KIRWANl3@WlU.EDU

PAGE 3

More guns is  
not the solution

Concealed carry wont prevent terrorism

One Wall Street Journal columnist raised a rather
unsettling answer to America’s need for tighter se-
curity: more guns! In his editorial Friday, John R.
Lott, Jr. said the United States needs to allow and
encourage more citizens to carry guns. He believes
that with more guns among the populace, terrorism
will be less likely to occur in America.

That idea itself is terrifying. I contend, although
such is greatly unpopular on this campus, that
America’s problem is not lack of guns, but rather
lack of sufficient gun control.

Lott believes screening at airports is not a true
deterrent to keep guns off planes, because airport
security could, “perhaps be bribed.”

“Excuse me —

Sir, WC,VC found 3.   

gun in your bag.”

“Oh really, NICHOLAS RAMSEY ‘03
well you can have
Mr. Benjamin here if you keep that just between us.”

“Well, I’m not supposed to, but I have been
wanting to beef up my DVD collection.”

Do any of us really believe that this type of
bribery is all it takes to get a gun on at plane? So, is
not the answer to pass legislation that would rein-
force the doors to commercial plane cockpits? Lott
says this is a good idea, but the difference in air
pressure would be a problem. I think that could be
fixed if you merely build a very wide, thin vent
above the door to regulate airﬂow. That seems
simple enough.

Lott’s solution is to put U.S. Marshals on
planes. However, he realizes that there are only
17,000 thousand of these Marshals working in
America, and 35,000 would be needed to fill every
ﬂight. Obviously, there’s a bit of a problem with
that idea.

Fuitherrnore, Lott asks, “What if an entire gang
of terrorists hijack a plane?” Clearly one officer will

not be enough to stop them.

But Lott does have a magnificently brilliant so-
lution. He states that pilots should be armed and the
six hundred thousand law enforcers should be able
to bring their guns on planes. This point is where
his article loses all credibility.

Do you realize how often both identity theft and
impersonating an officer allow criminals access to
places where they are not permitted? Thus, should
we trust the same easily bribed airport security of-
ficers to determine who is and who is not a law en-
forcement ofﬁcer? ’

By Lott’s statements, we should also trust
that these pilots and officers would not abuse
this privilege themselves. Meanwhile, the FBI,
the CIA, and police forces the nation over are
trying to find crooked officers right under their
noses.

Lott continues to say that guns should not be
limited solely to airplane use. He wishes our govem-
ment would encourage off-duty officers and respon-
sible citizens to carry guns in all public places. Well,
I have been worried about a terrorist ambush in the
mall lately. And I know there was some kind of co-
vert operation going down in the frozen foods sec-
tion of Kroger on Tuesday.

There is one real problem with this solution. You
cannot stop a terrorist with the threat of a gun if he
is merely going to kill himself anyway. Obviously,
the idea of dying is the point.

Lott uses Israel, where almost ten percent of
citizens carry concealed weapons, as an example. I
do not think that anyone would want the United
States to become more like Israel, a nation plagued
by more violence and governmental problems than
it can possibly deal with.

As for the real reason I feel compelled to write
this, I believe the last thing that the recent attacks
should be used for is to support laws to allow more
guns on our streets. More guns in the hands of
citizens leads to more accidental killings, more of
them being stolen or sold to criminals, and the con-
stant fear of wherever you go, someone around you
probably is packing heat.

I for one would like the freedom to walk around
without the fear that government regulations have
put more guns into the hands of my fellow citizens.
Yes, I realize that responsible gun owners cry foul
anytime that there is mention of keeping guns from
citizens. '

Realize it is not you that I am worried about. Per-
haps it is the “right” that an outdated Amendment grants

that is America’s true gun problem.

 

 

“I don’t have time.”
-Dave Harrison ‘05

  

‘My classes are harder than I

thought they would be.”
-Mary Hahn‘05

“t ast en
intersting enough.”
-John Goshor ‘05

 

“I haven’t heard about them.”
-Natalya Hoopshack ‘O5

    

“Because going to
parties is more fun.”
-Mike Whitecar ‘O5

 

 
 

As I attempt to write this column,
the computer derails my train of
thought every few minutes with an
annoying beep. A message pops up
on screen: “hey how ru.” Could this
be some diabolical program plotting
to warp my sense of grammar right in
the middle ofia newspaper assign-
ment?

I only wish the story were that
interesting. Instead, I find myself deal-
ing with yet another person, a person
I do not even know, a person whom I
do not even care to know, and a per-
son who has just interrupted my work.
I close the window and struggle to
collect my thoughts once again.

When I downloaded my ﬁrst copy
of America Online Instant Messenger,
I did not foresee this scenario at all.
“Keep in up—to—the-second contact
with your friends around the world! ,”
the banner read in ﬂashing neon-
green letters. “Never use your phone
again! Save on long distance bills!”

Best of all, the program was ab-
solutely free. How could I miss? As it
turns out, Very easily. After all, noth-
ing is really free; what I saved in

money I have lost in time and energy.
Worst of all, I am not alone.

Instant message mania swept the
globe less than six years ago with the
advent of ICQ, a powerful, yet simple,
program that allowed users to con-
tact each other anytime and from any-
where. Students unwittingly em-
braced it, particu-

,   
Instant Messaging has high price: time, grammar,

struggling to keep up with several
conversations at once resorted to cre-
ating their own primitive language of
slang, using terms such as “g2g” (got
to go) and “ttyl” (talk to you later) in
lieu of the antiquated “good—bye” or

“see you soon.”
Spelling also fell by the way-
side as surfers became

larly for its imme- COGENT COMMENTARY ever lazierg oddities
diacy and ability to ‘ like “kool,” “stopid,”
talk with multiple ANDREW LATIMER  and “supr” infiltrated

people simulta-
neously, two features that a plain old
telephone cannot offer.

Instant Messenger, or AIM for
short, arrived later, but it quickly sur-
passed all expectations by ensnaring
over 45 million members worldwide.
Notably, of all Americans in our age
bracket who use the Internet, sev-
enty-four percent use some sort of IM
program, be it ICQ, AIM, Yahoo! Mes-
senger, or MSN Messenger, just to
name a few.

But sadly, with the rapid ascent
of this telecommunications marvel
came the even swifter fall of grammar,
manners and privacy. Teenagers

the lexicon with sick-
ening speed. If linguists criticized
the state of the English language
with young Americans before, just
wait ten more years. They’ll be stab-
bing their eyes out.

Even more troubling are the so-
cietal implications of IM. A survey
published this June by the-Pew Insti-
tute stated that 13 percent of adoles-
cents on the ‘net have dumped a boy-
friend or girlfriend with a text message,
a fate far worse (not to mention far
more cowardly) than the dreaded
phone break—up.

Yet that statistic is telling of the
insidious appeal of IM. Being the

non-threatening mode of communica-
tion that it is, IM poses a convenient
crutch for those who are too shy to
talk face-to-face. Quite simply, it’s
nothing but a gadget for virtual her-
mits and, like the television some ﬁfty
years before, will invevitably change
our social landscape for the worse.

Then there’s the natural question:
why don’t I just erase the program
and rid myself of this scourge? Ask
anyof the other 45 million users: it’s
addictive. Most set their computers
to automatically load messaging pro-
grams whenever they boot up, and
so it’s fair to say the vast majority
have worked IM into their daily rou-
tines. And as the saying goes, old
habits die hard.

Even for the casual users who
only talk with friends, the siren song
of IM is hard to resist, especially with
dedicated Internet connections at
college. Who could say no to having
a dozen friends at your ﬁngertips at
once? In fact, most of the conversa-
tions I have online are with friends
who are self-proclaimed
“technophobes,” “Luddites,” “com—

MONDAY. OCTOBER 1, 2001

spellig

  
   

mrimsmrii-rr».UM\FltsrrY(>r SoUrHAnno\

NOT YOUR BUDDY: Students waste hours each day sacriﬁcing manners and grammar to keeping in touch.

puter—haters,” or “bumbling morons.”

Instantaneous communication
brought with it instant headaches
and worries for those who were un-
fortunate enough to be hooked by

the hype. The only solution might
be to stand up to this new technol-
ogy and resist its... ’you’ll have to
excuse me, the screen’s blinking
again. g2g “Click.”

Bush, Ashcroft should reconsider plans to increase investigative powers

Oouirrr~sYoi=Y!

COMING TO AMERICA: Will future immigrants regard our country as the land of free following Bush’s response to the Septll attacks?

Many individuals strive to reach
America, the land of the free. I came here
with my father as a refugee from Vietnam in
order to taste the fruits of liberty. Unlike
many other refugees who lost their lives
struggling to come here, I was lucky to have
made it here safely and succeeded in adapt-
ing to American culture. There is no better
place to live.

I still feel that way, but the recent propos-
als made by the Bush administration calling
for broader powers to be allotted to authori-
ties to ﬁght terrorism make me wonder if there
perhaps is no land of the free anywhere.

This is a different time period, and many
of us young people are facing an intema—
tional tragedy for the first time. We were alive
for Desert Storm, but this “war” is on a differ-

ent scale. We didn’t confront any hindrances '

to our Constitutional rights, but that may not
be the case this time.

There is a scary possibility that Ashcroft’s
proposals may pass because as much as I dis-
agree with them on the basis that they abridge
our civil liberties, I also see a need for them.
Thousands of Americans died on September

11. How many more must die before we do
something to protect our nation?

Though I do support measures to give
the authorities more powers to better ac-
cess electronic information shared between
possible terrorism suspects, I strongly dis-
agree with the proposals to 
detain aliens for an indefi— "
nite period of time without
a stated reason. It is rea-
sonable to question an in-
dividual, but not to detain them for an un-
specified amount of time that may range
from two days to two months. It is a sacri-
fice that we, as Americans, should not be
forced to make.

People are rash, and they are at their rash-
est now, and it is these rash people that run
our country. As such, it is crucial to keep them
in check before things go too far, as happened
in WWH and the Red Scare. I am extremely
sympathetic towards Muslims and aliens liv-
ing in this country‘ because they will face these
measures at their extremes.

I spoke with a Pakistani friend of mine
who attends Oglethorpe Univ. in Atlanta, and

 

Tiun or Tnoucnr

  TILIN K1M‘05 _

she received stinging remarks the day of the
attacks. For the first time I had no advice for
her. What can you say to a friend who con-
fronts racism? It is hard to ﬁght ignorance,
and I fear that, aside from the pain of the
incidents, the ignorance that often surrounds
these situations will further
rack the nation.

It is a difﬁcult decision
to make: whether you
should protect yourself and
your fellow citizens or preserve your
country’s existence. We as Americans are
called on to be patriots and so we patriots
we need to be, but at the same time, we also
need to mindful of our leaders’ actions.

It is important to remember that these
people are merely human beings and are try-
ing their best to do what is best for us citi-
zens. They are interpreting the situation as
they see it. So at the same time that we need
to be patient and perhaps endure a tempo-
rary loss of certain rights, we also need to
voice any concerns we may have so that a
temporary forfeiture does not turn into a
permanent dispossession.

 

 

ANIEX

Visit us again for pleasant memories and ﬁrst quality merchandise

for men and women.
MENS LADIES
Corbin Bowdon
Gitman Foxcroft
W&L ties and belts (Exclusive) Richard Sport
Woolrich Corbin
K. Gordon Woolrich
Enro Leon Levin
Trafalgar Belts LanzGowns

1 11 West Nelson Street
463-273 1

VISA

THE COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

MASTERCARD

Fine Jfoobs 8: gigzfs .pnorn
lrzelanb. Scoclanb.
an?) the Bnitfsh Isles-

Gift Ceuﬁipicates '
KI'l%, Tanfans. & Alzczessonies
Belleek. Royal Tana. & Donegal China

Auﬂronzed cafrhrress Glass Gallery

Céftict
C onnectlon

& Inisb Meals b3r'|.VIa1!.

4

    

Music Paints

F0066 Collecfahles
Cnarscal Knltavean
Religious Itenas Fine Chin
Heatheagerns Jenuelnar
Linens Books

Henalbazy Ice:-us

1 9 W. Nelson street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 434-6545

www.ir'Ishmea‘lsl>ymlI.ooln
w1.\nAr.csltier:>onnevx.carn
Iamaihinfoﬁcelticco .nt:x.corn
Toll Free 1-877-CELTICZ

   
 

 

=2

 

      cold   
         enicirsraoeeies.

 

  the rurznms are true?

 

1 i

 

  

4,’

  
   
  
   
   
 
  

Admitting women made the
university stronger.”

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2001

MATTHEW A. COURSEN
STAFF WRITER

If you were to picture Washington
and Lee in your mind, how would you
describe it to someone who could not
see? Which aspects of the school would
be among the ﬁrst you would describe?
The well—mar1icured lawns, the pristine
sidewalks, the glorious colonnade.
Would you explain to your friend how
rarely you see litter on the ground or
trash in the classrooms? Or would you
tell them how clean everything is and
how well kept the landscaping is at all
times, no matter the weather?

What if your friend asked about
your feelings on the size of the carn-
pus, its dimensions, and your feelings
of safety here? How would you re-
ply? In general, students at this
school take for granted certain fun-
damental aspects of the southern
hospitality that exists here. I cannot
express in mere words how vastly
unique it is to walk down the colon-
nade and say “hello” to everyone you
pass. To walk into the Co-op and be
greeted warmly by a group of helpful,
cheerful people is a nice feeling and
one we must not ignore.

The purpose of this column, which
will now appear weekly on this page, is to
bring to our attention the people here who

. help make our

“I think the school’s Sch0O1greaLAS
changed for the better. opposed to.the
increasing r1urn—

ber of negative
opinion articles
written each
week about the
alcohol policy or lack of parking on cam-
pus, this column will focus mainly on the
positives about this ﬁne university.

Each week, I will interview a differ-
ent member of our staff ir1 order to show
you what they look like, what their job
is, and a little bit about their personal
life. The objective of this column is to
make us all realize how lucky we are to
have such a dedicated and warm-
hearted group of people working to im-
prove and maintain our school.

IARRYSTUART

 

LIFE  

Tue Risousit Put

. AAA)111l4\‘)-'lk4-‘ZA_Mh"\)l‘ rum .x.l1.LL41 .....i_...u

  

SUPERVJSING PAGEEDIIORS
FMA1LFu1@wuiu)u

GLAMOR: Larry Stuart and associate Thomas “Baner” Bane revel in their popularity with students.

Now that I have introduced the
column to you, let me introduce the
subject of this inaugural edition of Staﬁ’
Appreciation. Larry Stuart is a mem-
ber of University Security. You have
probably seen him driving around cam-
pus handing out tickets and “hellos”
quite evenly. In all seriousness,
though, Larry is a long—standing mem-
ber of the staff here, working as a se-
curity ofﬁcer for nearly 17 years.

When he isn’t at parties keeping
us out of trouble, or in the parking
garage politely warning us to move
our illegally parked cars, Larry is at
home with his wife and daughter. The
happy family resides in Rockbridge
County only a short distance from
where Larry himself grew up. Both
Larry and his wife are committed to

helping people each day of their lives. -

His wife, Debbie, works at Heritage
Hall, a nursing home in Lexington, and
they both enjoy raising their adorable
6-year-old daughter, Bettie Sierra.
After attending the old Rockbridge
County High School, the existing school
was built at its current location about 7
years ago, Larry enlisted in the Marine

Corps and served our country proudly
for 6 years, rising to the rank of Sergeant.
Following a brief stint in construction,
Larry was hired by W&L. The year was
1984, and Larry had just begun his sto-
ried career here. His ﬁrst year with W&L
was also the last year that the school
was all—male. When asked to comment
on his thoughts about this monumental
change, Larry replied, “I think the
school’s changed for the better. Admit-
ting women made the university stron-
ger.” Those who know him, know how
much he cares not only for the students
here, but also for protecting the students
here. It is certainly not an easy job. With
some new policies now in eﬂect, Univer-
sity Security has a larger responsibility
than ever before. It’s a good thing we
have men like Larry on our side.

In his spare time, Larry enjoys jazz
music and looks forward to attending
jazz clubs and concerts two or three
times each year. Though we did not talk
about this in the interview, I know that
Larry is a fan of the Redskins; a fact
that heavily inﬂuenced my decision to
write this inaugural column about him
rather than on another security ofﬁcer,

a Cowboys fan. Besides being a jazz en-
thusiast and a football fan, Larry genu-
inely enjoys working here at W&L, watch-
ing the freshmen grow into graduates in
four short years. To the freshmen, Larry
oﬂered some valuable advice: “Education

is one of the things
you’ve come here
for. So it’s irnpor—
tant for you to make
sure you’re devot-
ing enough time to
your studies.” For
those of you fresh-
men who do not
know Larry, intro-
duce yourself next
time you see him
around campus. He

“Education is one of
the things you’ve come
here for. So it’s
important for you to
make sure you’re
devoting enough time
to your studies.”
IARRYSIUART

will undoubtedly smile, offer a hand, and
look after you for four years.

And for those of you who do know
him, when it’s late at night, and you see a
W&L securitycarslow down nexttoyou,do
notbe alarmed. For it is probably Larry wav-
ing “hello,” knowing that he does his job
because he cares. From now on, wave back
and show some appreciation for the ways in
which Larry Stuart improves ourlives.

MARY GUY/ Tbe Ring-711

PAGE 5

Freshmen face

dining obstacles

Many students dislike lack
of eating opportunities on W&L campus

SAHAR Kuvuu
STAFF WRITER

Upon cooking our second pot of chicken alfredo
noodles within 15 minutes one recent Monday morn-
ing at 2 a.m., I looked across to my friend and said,

“The hours of the dining hall are not
what I’m used to at home, so I usually
tind something else to eat.”
CAROLESIRADA

“This has to
stop.” Whether
it’s adjusting to
dining hall
hours or a sud-
den dearth of
Mexican food
and other fa-
vorite home-
town Mexican

restaurants, freshman are slowly comprehending din-

ing atW & L.

For many, three meals a day is a stark contrast to
regular snacking at home. Dinner ‘generally ends at 7
p.m., and most students are up much later than that,
either studying or just staying out. With the long
gap between meals and still much to later in the night,
stomachs usually begin to rumble soon enough.

“Meals aren’t what they used to be,” Freshman
Tina Shen said. “Because we are in the dorms so
much, there is always a temptation to snack just to
have something to do.”

The short hours of the dining hall dinner are hard

to adjust to for
those who are
used to eating
dinner later.

“I don’tget
hungry - at
5:30,” Fresh-
man Carol
Estrada said.
“The hours of

“Meals aren’t what they used to be.
Because we are in the dorms so much,
there is always a temptation to snack

just to have something to do.”

TINASHEN

the dining hall are not what I’m used to at home, so I

usually find something else to eat.”

Besides the co-op, the GHQ and ever-trustwor-
thy Domino’s Pizza, late—night options can be hard to
come by. Hopefully, over the next few weeks, fresh-
man will perfect their dining schedule and make it to
breakfast before class and store a few frozen meals
in their dorm before running into debt with the

Domino’s man.

for

Victims of Domestic Violence

Sponsored by

Project Horizon  

TONIGHT

at

6:30 p.m.

at

Hopkins Green

All welcome.

Space donated by the Ring-tum Phi.

 
    

PAGE 6

 . ‘  M<)NDA1, UCI‘()Bl:R 1,4001

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   

j
EC b d 11 ° Graham Lees ﬂood 2001'
u get a ocations .
Organization Amount per year ($) 1 ~ . ' ‘ ‘ *-’  ‘ .
- 1 2000 2000-2001 2001-2002

Arete 1, 50 600 600
Ariel 5250 2725 2700 RIGHT: SPLISH SPLASH: Freshmen mop
Café Cultura 0 and clean the second ﬂoor Security side
Calyx ' 11 yooo 3000 0 hallway of Graham—Lees Dormitory last
Calyx D ebt 9000 Thursday. It all began in yvith a resident
Club Boxing 100 throvving a football, hitting a pipe and
Club Lacrosse (m) 1200 . 1550 ﬂ°°d”‘g 3 balmy-
Club Lacrosse (w) 1000 0
Club Softball 280 155
Co-ed Club Water Polo 0 4000
Contact 35900 47v000 50-000 BOTTOM LEFT: RESCUE SQUAD:
(Failm  6000 6750 $330 Residents, dorm counselors and

ame U administrators alike itched in to stem
Gay'Stralght Alliance 300 540 the rising tide tliaat occurred at
Game Club 1 70 100 approximately 9:30 p.m. The
Habitat for Humanity ' 300 6000 1000 encroaching ﬂoodwaters threatened
International Club 1800 3500 dozens of rooms.
Java at the GHQ 7500 8000
Journal of Science 2200 4780 0
KEWL - 0
Live Drive 1900
Mindbending Productions 600 BOTTOM RIGHT: EAU DE TOILETTE:
Minority Student Association 8000 14,000 14,000 Desperate freshmen attempt to divert
Nabors Sen/ice League 14,000 14,000 the How of the Graham—Lees River into
Otaku ' 100 a restroom. Physical Plant eventually
Peer Counselors 0 turned the water off, sparing most
Photography Club 250 freshmen’s rooms from serious damage. *
Political Review 1675 1500 2200
PRIDE 1 000 400 1 500
Publications Board 8 3075 5500 3000 *
R.E. Belles 100 100 0
Ring-tum Phi 4000 4000 4500 it
Rugby 1 625 3650 1 400 An. pnoros BYJFB Brooks/Tlac Rirzgtzw1P/2:’
SNAP 0 ;
Student Activities Board 77,000 100,570 84,707
Student Association for International Learning ‘ 1920 2200
Student Bar Association 51,000 60,000 56,500 . 1
Soccer 615 180 60
Southern Comfort 1000 0 ‘
W&L Cheerleading 1900
Women’s Forum 1500 3025
W&L Cheerleading 863 .5
W&L Dance 820 1250
W&L Dance and Ballet 1500 .v-
W&L Pep Club 250
W.l.T.S. 220 500 ,
Student Pavilion 51 ,775 52,475 53,350
Student Priority Reserve 9000 5500 I
Ultimate Frisbee Club 100
E.C. Reserve 4000 9000 9000 H‘
E.C. Honor Reserve 18,000 4000 4000
Student Body Working Reserve A 18000 18000 18,000
Student Body Default 1423.81 1164.01 1922.13 ¢
TOTAL 355,198.81 389,639.01 366,272.13

§ .
Spring Break 2002! !! V’
 to    Student Express is now hiring sales reps.
Cancun features FREE meals and parties @ 0 ‘ 4
_ Fat Tuesdays—MTV Beach Headquarters. e a V e ,
lessons nVaIIa|Ile Acapulco, Mazatlan, Jamaica, Bahamas, - A
. . . C
only $5 nerliali-Itourlesson Sovmﬁaﬁrnelﬂffggblirncejﬁom every-r h I ng
major a1r es. , ave ers in . a 4
co|“_act  or 800-787-3787 for a FREE brochure or
tIeminu|I@wIu.e|Iu email: d 1. ,
bookit@ studentexpress.com Y O U n 8 6 O
www.studentexpress.com. . 1 ~
I o o k y o u r‘ t.  
I V I I i
ii if th ma besl f°'° 1 ‘
ant: to write or e P .

Come to our weekly staff meetings at 7 on Monday nights
in tie Phi office, 31 Washington St.

Homecoming!

Gety(11rhaircutf<:rH1recrIru'r1gat
CuLi:Jng --1
' ‘ ]_’L7W. l\1e]srnSt.

463-9588 ’

9:;/lecuts, Ciiigpereits,  4»

Manicures and Pedicures ,

www ewv e     

 

1 is

I 4

 

3
4

jEREIvIYFRANI<IIN


iliiifiii RI; its-~TrR«I Pl--it

MONDAY, OCTOBER 1,2001

PORT
'T5Generals see win streak snapped by N .C. Wesleyan

 

1 .(v I - E’ fig-It/)1 )1

‘ EEEONE-ON-ONE: Freshman Kelley Zagol attempts to elude a Dominion Athletic Conference win Saturday atiLiberty Hall
' ':»_“'hVirginia Wesleyan defender in the Generals’ 1-0 Old Field. W/&L improved to 6-1 in the ODAC.

5.’
4* 

   men

,  Wasps,
VVesleyan

g ;.,,;.r BY GEOFF WHITE

v I

SPORTs WRITER

The Generals started to reclaim

I  some of last season’s glory with a pair

I

of wins last week, defeating Emory

‘and Henry and their old nemesis, Vir-

 ginia Wesleyan.

Q ‘.54.-

On Wednesday, the men’s soccer

, team routed the Wasps 4-0 at home.

Senior Paul Wallace started the scor-
ing, assisted by junior Sean Hardin

"aind—senior.Andrew.Grimes. — .. .. .-
Junior Brad Murphy took a shot

that hit the post, but senior Jacob
Stoehr nailed in the rebound, putting
the Generals up 2-0. Stoehr scored

5 another goal late in the half, putting

‘ the game safely out of the reach of

Emory and Hemy.

Murphy took revenge for his near
miss, scoring off a comer kick ﬁom fresh-
man Brian Pirkle in the second half.

Juniors Tim Foley and Brad Heam
split time in goal for W&L. Foley made

; two saves in the first half, and Heam

. earned four in the second.

The Generals had a much more difﬁ-
cult task on the road against Virginia

I Wesleyan. W&L fell behind by a goal

early into Saturday’s match, but Murphy

‘ helped the Generals rebound with a goal,

, tying the game before halftime.

In the second half, Virginia
Wesleyan once again went ahead with
a 2-1 lead. Grimes answered this time,
scoring off an assist from sophomore
Bret Grote.

With eight minutes to play, Murphy
gave the Generals their first lead of

 

if /12’/I/H 1/

OFFENSIVE WEAPON:_luniOr Brad Murphy prepares to play a ball in \‘(r’&l.’s wih over
Emory and Henry at home on Wednesday. Murphy scored a goal in the 4-0 victory.

the contest, and also what turned out
to be the game-winning goal. Grote
again recorded the assist.

Hearn earned the win by mak-
ing six saves. His counterpart,
Sean Wreston, tallied three saves
for Virginia Wesleyan. Both rival

teams earned two yellow cards
each.

The Generals are now 5-1-1, and
have won all four of their Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference contests.
They host Hampden-Sydney at 4 p.m.
on Thursday.

I all .night..and.think about the next

BY DAVE CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The sting of defeat returned to the Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team on Sunday afternoon, but
don’t expect a 2-1 non-conference loss to a tough North
Carolina Wesleyan squad to put a damper on W&L’s
recent success.

Since an opening- game loss to Old Dominion Athletic
Conference foe Lynchburg, the Generals had won six
straight games, including a 4-0 victory over Sweet Briar
on Monday and a 1-0 OT win over Virginia Wesleyan on
Saturday afternoon.

“It was a very important game,” Coach Neil Cunningham
said about Sunday’s matchup. “N.C. Wesleyan has been
to the playoffs the last two seasons, and they provided a
gauge of how much we’ve improved since the beginning
of the year.

“I think we’ve come a long way in ﬁve weeks.”

Coming off a tough overtime win, W&L quickly got on
the board first when freshman forward Maggie Hope
scored off an assist from sophomore Fontaine Marcoux. It
was Marcoux’s team-high eighth assist of the season.

Unfortunately for W&L, N.C. Wes1eyan’s defense tight-
ened up, led by goalie Rachael Whicker, and allowed no
goals the rest of the way.

The Battling Bishops fought back with a goal to tie the
game, beating freshman goalie Emily Barker with 7:21 left
in the first half.

Wesleyan broke the tie when Caitlin Sanderson added
a score at the 28:47 mark of the second half. A stiff defense
thwarted the late-game surge of the Generals, including a

Late TD lifts Jackets over WL

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

ASHLAN D — Hunter Price threw
a 19-yard touchdown pass to Der-
rick Jackson with 15 seconds left to
give Randolph-Macon a 28-24 win
over Washington and Lee at Day
Field on Saturday.

Price’s game winner capped oil“ a 95-
yard drive that lasted less than 90 sec-
onds. Before that, the Generals failed to
take advantage of senior Ted Mafﬁtt’s
interception in Yellow Jacket territory,
as W&L didn’t convert on a fourth-and-
three from their opponents’ 5-yard line.

“You sit around for the bus ride
back and the evening, dream about it

morning, about the call or two you’d
like to change,” W&L coach Frank
Miriello said. “It’s agony. We just
couldn’t seem to come up with the

PAGE 7

ball that was tipped just above the goal.

“I think we were the stronger team today,” Cunningham
said. “Our fitness came through. We continued to run
with them even after an overtime game the day before.”

Earlier in the week, the Generals easily disposed of
Sweet Briar 4-0. The Generals outshot the Vixens by an
amazing 37-0 margin.

Senior midfielder Kate Bidwell provided the only goal
the Generals would need a mere 5 7 seconds into the game.
It was Bidwell’s team-leading sixth goal of the season.

Midﬁelders Martha Allgood and Ginny Helms and for-
ward Caroline Francht, all freshmen, also tallied goals for
the Generals. .

Sophomores Susannah Hewlett and Heather Coleman,
junior Jenny Thomas and freshman Romney Willson
added assists.

The conference match against Virginia Wesleyan on
Saturday afternoon proved to be a little more difﬁcult.

Neither team could muster much offense, totaling 18
shots in almost 103 minutes of play. The Generals finally
handed the Marlins their first conference loss of the sea-
son when Hope deﬂected the ball into the net with 2:01
remaining in OT.

Barker made five saves on the day to compile her sec-
ond collegiate shutout.

Despite an injury midway through Sunday’s game,
Cunningham said that Willson played very well over the
week, along with sophomore defender Meghan Hayde
and freshman defender Kelley Zagol.

The Generals return to ODAC play on Wednesday af-
temoon when they travel to Emory and Henry for a 4 p.m.
contest.

FILE PHOT

OFFENSIVE WEAPON: junior Chris Sullivan (24) rushed for 202 yards en route to
tallying 300 total yards and a receiving touchdown in W&L’s 28-24 road loss to
Randolph-Macon. Classmatejay Thomas (12) caught four passes for 61 yards.

  

  

big play at that point.”
Junior Chris Sullivan had a career
day, rushing 35 times for 202 yards

\ and catching a 71-yard touchdown

pass from sophomore Peter Dean.
Sullivan ﬁnished with 300 all-purpose
yards, setting career highs in that cat-
egory as well as in rush yards.

“He’s quite a player, and he’s a
junior, thank goodness,” Miriello
said. “All Chris needs is to put the
ball in his hands more often than
not, and we’re starting to do that
now.”

Sullivan believes that the offense
can play well against any team in the
league, provided that the Generals
bring their best game.

“We’re a good team, but some-
times we don’t show up,” he said.
“When we decide to come out and
play, we can compete with anybody.”

Price and wideout Justin Basdikis

Women’s tennis gains experience

3 Genera/s, /ed byjunior Erika Proko, charge into W&L tournament and take no prisoners

BY DAVE CROWELL
AssIsTA.\1T SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis
team followed up a strong weekend at the ITA
Southeast Regional by winning a number of
matches at the W&L Fall Festival and gaining
further experience.

The Generals won 24 of 32 singles matches
and 13 of 16 doubles matches in day one action
on Saturday. W&L advanced eight players to
the singles ﬁnals on Sunday.

W&L’s strong start forced a change in
usual tournament play: officials altered the
tournament format so that W&L players could
compete against opposing players instead
of each other.

Junior Erika Proko led the Generals, follow-
ing up her singles championship at the ITA
Regional with a strong weekend at home, win-
ning all her tournament matches in the No. 1
singles ﬂight.

“I think I played well,” Proko said. “We all
felt tired after a three-day tournament last week-

’ end. It was challenging, but we did very well as

ateain.”

Freshman Lindsay Hagerman and senior
Melissa Hatley also won all three of their re-
spective matches in the ﬁrst singles ﬂight.

In the No. 2 singles ﬂight, junior Brandi
Jane Wedgeworth and sophomore Liz Law
won all three of their matches on the week-
end. Freshman Marie Trimble and junior
Sallie Gray Strang followed suit in the No. 3
singles flight.

Proko and Hatley, as well as Hagerman and
Strang, teamed up to win three matches in the
No. 1 doubles ﬂight.

In the No. 2 doubles ﬂight, junior Alyson
Brice and Wedgeworth won three matches, while
Law and her partner, sophomore Ellie Simpson,
also won three matches.

“This tournament was a great help for us,”
coach Cinda Rankin said. “The W&L program
is so strong. Some of our 2’s and 3’s in singles
competition proved that they can beat the No.
1’s at other programs.” ,

The W&L Fall Festival prepares the team for
a series of matches in Philadelphia over Read-
ing Days. Proko and Hatley will also compete at
the national level shortly after that.

The series of fall competitions, however,
serves one purpose: to prepare the team for the
spring season.

“From top to bottom, everyone played well
and I was very impressed,” Rankin said. “This
will position us well for preseason rankings and
help gain selections to nationals.”

at Festival

, MEG FFl1R:\RA/ The Rir1g—tm Phi
FOLLOW THROUGH: Freshman Lindsay Hagerman won all three
of her matches in the No. 3 ﬂight of the W/&l. Fall Festival.

carried the Yellow Jackets’ offense.
Despite being picked off twice, the
quarterback completed 23-of-32
passes for 356 yards, and Basdikis
caught 12 of those for 167 yards.

Miriello knows that the second-
ary is a top priority for W&L, with
pass-happy teams such as Hampden-
Sydney and Bridgewater left on the
schedule. The Generals may convert
a receiver such as 6—foot-3 freshman
Taylor Callaham into a defensive
back.

“That’s a major concern for us,”
Miriello said. “We’re very young
in the secondary. We’re talking
about making some changes and
looking at some other personnel.
We might make a move or two to
bolster our secondary.”

After Randolph-Macon took a sec-
ond quarter lead, Dean threw the first
touchdown pass of his career, ﬁnding

F ROM STAFF REPORTS

SALEM — After a two-week
break, the Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s cross coun-
try teams returned to the course
Saturday at the Roanoke Invita-
tional. The men placed third of 13
teams, and the women turned in a
fourth—place finish in a 12-team
field.

In the women’s competition,
junior Burke Duncan won the in-

junior Jay Thomas for a 4-yard strike.

W&L took a 14-7 lead after half-
time on a 3-yard run by senior Marc
Watson. The Yellow Jackets coun-
tered with touchdown runs by David
Strong and Bush to go up 21-14.

A 29-yard field goal by senior
Brad Wiginton cut Randolph-
Macon’s lead to 21- 17 with 9:33 left.
Four minutes later, Dean hit Sullivan
for a 24-21 lead.

Next up for W&L is Catholic, which
ended the Generals’ 4-0 start with a 47-0
win a year ago. To turn that result around,
Sullivan believes that the same W&L
team that showed up Saturday must re-
surface against the Cardinals.

“We need to play like we did this
past Saturday,” Sullivan said. “We had
a couple of penalties that killed us at
times, so if we could minimize those,
that would be a key factor.”

Kickoff is at 1:30 p.m. at Wﬂson Field.

W&L runs at Roanoke invite

dividual title with a time of 19:16.
Senior Lucy Rankin crossed the
line 25th overall at 21 :30, and
classmate Gretchen Tencza was
34th at 21 :56.

Sophomore Andy Schorr fin-
ished fourth overall in the men’s race
at 26:42. Junior Will Teichman was
20th at 28: 14, and freshman Steven
Chambers placed 30th at 28:56.

W&L has another 14-day break
before the Virginia State Meet on
Oct. 13.

Next week or the sports
1 pages of the Phi...

-Continued coverage of varsity athletics
-The W&L rugby team fights for recognition
-Updated standings tortall sports

 

  

PAGE 8

W

. 1 . g i
POKE CHECK: Sophomorejessica Lake knocks the ball away
from a Bridgewater player in \X/&L’s 1-0 win Saturday at the
Turf Field. The win was the Generals’ first at home.

Volleyball splits pair at Emory

Ruckert breaks school, ODAC kill record at Gui/ford before Generals head to Atlanta

W&L again split a pair of matches

FROM STAFF REPORTS and four blocks.

DPORTS

is Eagl

    

 
    

BY MIKE LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Women’s ﬁeld hockey
team wrapped up the week with a win, their first
ever as a varsity squad at home, Saturday after-
noon against Bridgewater in front of a small but
dedicated crowd at the W&L Turf Field.

The Generals entered the game having given
up a close overtime victory at Randolph—Macon
Woman’s College on Wednesday afternoon by a
score of 2-1 . The WildCats sealed a four—game los-
ing streak for the Generals, dropping them to 1-4 in
Old Dominion Athletic Conference competition.

In spite of that heaitbreaker, W&L showed
no lack of confidence Saturday. The Generals
took the ball first and played a tight, coordi-
nated game, pressing the Eagles back into their
territory for the vast majority of the first half.

For all of 35 minutes, Bridgwater pushed the
Generals back on defense a total of less than 10
times, and never for more than a quick breakaway
that was easily stopped by the defense. The
game was scoreless at the break.

The first six minutes of the second half

changed all of that. Once again, the Generals
relentlessly took the offensive, and ﬁnally, the
right play opened up at the right moment.

Sophomore Kelly Taffe received a perfect
cross from senior Alison MacQueen, and ﬁred
the ball past Bridgewater goalie Michelle Leach
for the only score of the game with 29:47 re-
maining to play.

“We’re very excited to get a win,” Taffe said.
“We needed the confidence. We’ve been play-
ing well, but coming up short.”

Coach Wendy Orrison was also very glad to
get a win.

‘"I“here’s been a lot of doubt on the team,” she
said. “We’ve lost games by one goal and it’s al-
ways hard. Today was a real conﬁdence booster.”

Perhaps the best indicator of the high level
of the Generals’ play was senior goalie Deidra
MacLeod’s statistics for the day: three shots
attempted against her, but not a single one got
past the defense to force her to make a save.

With this win, the Generals improved to 2-5
overall, 2-4 in ODAC play. W&L returns to the
ﬁeld on Tuesday with a 4:30 p.m. contest at
Sweet Briar.

iviomiii’, UCIOBER 1, 200,1

es to collect 1st varsity home win

MEG FF.RitAitA/ T/re Ring-tum P/12'
AT MIDFIELD: Senior captain Carolyn Pressly lunges for the ball in Saturday’s action.

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team improved to 3-0 in Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference play with
a road win against Guilford on Tues-
day before splitting a four—game set
in the Emory University Invitational
in Atlanta on Friday and Saturday.

Senior Lindsay Ruckert tallied 15
kills to set a school and ODAC career
record in the Generals’ 30-20, 30-20, 30-
20 victory over the Quakers. Ruckert
broke 2000 W&L graduate Nancy
Reinha1t’s record of 1,221 career kills.

Freshman Jennifer Lux contributed
33 assists and 17 digs, and senior
Leslie Fischbeck added seven kills

In Atlanta on Friday, W&L
knocked off Milligan College 30-15,
31-29, 30-23 before losing to Emory
30-16, 30-16, 3024.

Freshman Michelle Chastain deliv-
ered 11 kills and 11 digs against
Milli gan, while junior Stacey Kimmel
tallied seven kills and six aces. Ruckert
added to her record with 1 1 kills in the
win, which gave W&L their best start
ever at 12-1 .

Freshman Emily Wolﬁng had 10
digs and sophomore Mary-Wommack
Barton added eight more against
sixth-ranked Emory. Ruckert chipped
in six kills and 11 digs, and Chastain
totaled nine kills.

on Saturday, dropping Greensboro 28-
30, 30-18, 34-36, 34-32, 15-81 and los-
ing to Catholic 30-27, 31-29, 30-24.

Ruckert led the Generals with 21
kills and 17 digs against Greensboro,
and Chastain had 14 kills and 12 digs.
Kimmel racked up 14 kills, 14 digs,
seven aces and ﬁve blocks. Senior Lee
Charbonnet contributed 12 digs, and
Lux collected 46 assists.

Against Catholic, Ruckert had 11
kills and nine digs, and Lux amassed
30 assists.

The Generals (13-3) return to ODAC
play with a 6:30 p.m. match against
Randolph—Macon Woman’s College
Tuesday in the Warner Center.

SCOREBOARD

SATuRDAY’s FOOTBALL YARDLINE

W&L SCHEDULES OCTOBER 2-8

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 

Randolph-Macon 28, W&L 24
W&L 0 7 7 10 — 24

Tuesday, Oct. 2 Volleyball
Go” Eastern Mennonite at W&L, 11 a.m.
Football

   

 

Randolph-Macon 0 7 7
Second Quarter
RMC — Bush 1 run (Ping kick), 7:47

Third Quarter
W&L — Watson 3 run (Wiginton kick), 9:50
RMC — Strong 5 run (Ping kick), 6:13

Fourth Quarter
RMC — Bush 3 run (Ping kick), 14:17
W&L -— FG Wiginton 29, 9:33

A — 1,000
W&L RMC

First downs 17 26
Flushes-yards 45-222 42-121
Passing yards 152 356
Return yards 48 153
Comp-att-int 9-24-0 23-36-2
Sacked-yards lost 1-9 0-0
Punts-avg 5-368 3-380
Fumbles-lost 0-0 3-1
Penalties-yards 4-30 1-11

Time of possession 29:34 30:26

Strong 13-25.

356, Strong 0-1-0 0.

14—28

W&L — Thomas 4 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 0:53

W&L —— Sullivan 71 pass from Dean (Wiginton kick), 5:27
FtMC — Jackson 19 pass from Price (Ping kick), 0:15

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSHlNG—W&L: Sullivan 35-202, Watson 5-16, Dean 3-6,
Overstreet 1-(-1). Randolph-Macon: Price 18-63, Bush 11-33,

RECElV|NG—W&L: Thomas 4-61, Sullivan 2-78, Callaham 1-6,
Watson 1-4, Overstreet 1-3. Randolph—Macon: Basdikis 12-167, Bush 2-
64, Jackson 2-38, Haggard 2-36, Buckner 2-21, Strong 2-13, Tiller 1-17.

MISSED FIELD GOALS—Randolph-Macon: Ping 39.

_ Field Hockey

W&L at Sweet Briar, 4:30 p.m.

Volleyball
RMWC at W&L, 6:30 p.m. och 6_8

Men’s Tennis
agﬂlgﬁgagoggtéra ITA/Rolex Southeast Regional
W&L at Emory and Henry, 4 p.m. (at Swadhmorel

Sunday, Oct. 7
Thursday, Oct. 4 new Hockey

Men’s Soccer

Friday, Oct. 5 lelgﬂday’ °°" 3
Held H°°k°V Greensboro/Aubrey Apple Invite

Lynchburg at W&L, 7 pm

Saturday, Oct. 6
Men’s Soccer

Roanoke at W&L, 11 a.m.

PASSlNG—W&L: Dean 9-24-0 152. Randolph—Macon: Price 23-35-2 Guilford

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE
Conference Overall
Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
Randolph-Macon 2 0 52 44 4 1 121 119
Brldgewater 1 0 48 42 4 0 175 89
Hampden-Sydney 1 1 101 55 2 2 135 91
Washington and Lee 1 1 51 34 1 3 64 110
Emory and Henry 0 0 0 0 2 2 77 65
Catholic 0 1 20 24 1 3 66 74
0 2 13 86 1 4 55 155
Sept. 29 Results Week of Oct. 6

LaSa||e 20, Catholic 12

Guilford/T om O’Bryant Invitational

Hampden-Sydney at W&L, 4 p.m.

Randolph-Macon 24, W&L 20
Bridgewater 48, Hampden-Sydney 42 Hampden-Sydney at Emory and

Greensboro 15, Guilford 14

Catholic at W&L, 1:30 p.m.
Women’s Soccer
Ferrum at W&L, 3 p.m.

Catholic at W&L, 12 p.m.

Men’s Soccer

Southern Virginia at W&L, 4 p.m.
Volleyball

W&L at Sweet Briar, 6:30 p.m.

Catholic at W&L, 1:30 p.m.

Henry, 1 p.m.
Ferrum at Guilford, 1 p.m.

 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
 

 

 

we 
Estate .  , 4  513/l43ng5em.w52,a£e*
I   (fr  Tzrenda/.1

 APP:

if-53 ‘-50El3'
2.5  

    w14t.l<-INS wE‘LC<9ME

 

 

 

