 

1

 

 

  
  

STEVE MARINos / THE RING-TUM PHI

 

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Left—wing political activist
Angela Davis delivered a politi-
cally charged speech in Lee
Chapel Sunday, criticizing Presi-
dent Bush, the prison system,
and other social institutions that
have been “shaped by racism.”

Delayed 45 minutes by a
snowstorm, Davis arrived in the
chapel to a standing ovation from
the racially diverse audience. Her
lecture, entitled “Civil Rights and
Human Rights: Future Trajecto-
ries,” is the first part of the
university’s celebration of Mar-
tin Luther King Jr. Day.

Davis attacked the armed
forces, prisons, and the justice

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

said. ,

In international politics,
Davis condemned the war in Iraq
as an abuse of the forces that had
formerly been used to promote
peace and justice. “If Dr. King
were alive today, he would prob-
ably be giving rousing and elo-
quent orations on the fact that
[those forces] are spreading war
and-torture and racism through-
out the world,” Davis said. The
actions she attacked included de-
tainment of immigrants, global
capitalism, destruction of civil
liberties, and torture.

“We live in the era of the
security state,” Davis said, call-
ing the United States a “so-called
democracy” that is “on the path
to self—destruc-
tion.”

“If Dr. King were alive

acceptance of the White House’s
resistance to public indignation.
Bush and his administration

steadily ignore the “rising tide” . ,

of opposition and resentment to-
wards America in this recent time,
according to Davis. In recent
trips to Europe, Davis was ap-
proached for explanations of
American popular opinion, such
as support for the death penalty
and political views.

“Many people can’t under-
stand that Bush was reelected.
They just can’t understand it,”
Davis said, stirring up laughter
and applause from the audience.

Davis suggested that the
dissatisfaction‘ with the United
States’ contribution to tsunami
relief could be
rooted in the

PHI

 

VoLUME€¥lll, No.18
MoNnAY,]ANUARY17,2005 .

No investigations

pending so far

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

After the first week of pledgeship, the Uni-
versity has not begun investigating any soror-
ity or fraternity for reports of hazing violations.

“It’s been an overall good week,” said
Margo McClinton, director of the University
Commons.

Members of the Inter-Fraternity Council
and Panhellenic Council patrolled all events
during recruitment week through Tear Night to
ensure students’ safety. Since then, the admin-
istration has encouraged students to use the
new online form to report incidents of hazing.

The fraternities’ new member educators
attended a meeting with the IFC and members of
administration. The group considered a list of

pledgeship activities and voted on whether or
not they considered it to be hazing.
The IFC also met with all freshmen men

Monday night to explain the University’s rules
on pledgeship more thoroughly and to discuss

the options available to hazing victims, includ- '

cnmemspmcn. Political activist laDavis be System asorganilationsthatdeal In par- belief that
the Celebration OfMardn Luther In Day gm more harshly by minorities than ticular, Davis today: he W0uld Probably be Bush’s pledge
by white citizens. She singled contended that giving rousing and eloquent of$350millionis

0 o 0 out the death penalty as a “pro— Saturday’s con— orations on the fact that equivalent to

  S found vestige of slavery,” point- viction of former _ _ _ the cost of main-
ing outtoatime when white men Abu Ghraib [military 21C'E1OI1S] 3.f€ taining the U.S.

Angels Davis’ sssssh is only the rust of Z§§“§I.'f3.Z‘§§3§Zdf§Z2 222.32. 53.22? SP‘“‘““8 W“ and t°“““ §’§fi°.§‘°.§’a‘y‘l."” inghazing.wlu.edu.

Several events organized by the Office of around 77 differentcrimes. Jr. reveals the and racism throughout In her

Multicultural Affairs to celebrate Martin Luther
King, Jr. Day.
Birthday cake and punch will be available

the evening, the Marketplace will offer its tradi-
tional celebratory dinner of fried chicken, sweet
potatoes, and collard greens.

At 7 pm, Associate History Professor
Theodore DeLaney will give a lecture in Lee
Chapel. -The speech, entitled “The Legacy of
Martin Luther King,” will be followed by a vigil

  
      

march to a reception in Evans Dining Hall.

in the Commons from 12 pm to 2 pm Monday. In ‘

   

  
 

  

    

  

/ling”

“Dreaming and Due

      

. _ . thsfrsséss
bl; 'sp3ay¢,c:¥&;13rtessage.:.e£aah mi-ti,c:‘s.:ia:'

In a question-and-answer
period following the lecture, she
discussed the current
administration's antagonism to
the voice of the public, including
demonstrations and mass move-
ments not unlike the ones fos-
tered by King.

“From my vantage point,
the Bush government is more re-
actionary than any government I
have ever seen in my life,” Davis

   

   

  

 
 
  
 

  
  

    
 
   

  was aritissemeticg ?‘azrd
  hasiidiscipiinecfbbth the broth-
and ‘N  involved with the ‘antissemetic

were, } ¢'qpa1ly»:'respensih2e,‘’.
J wehai?  pu.r;:s;aca‘:hem.s:

 illslrsspimss

current apathy
towards the de-
bacle at that fa-
cility. Saying
that it already feels like old news,
Davis wondered why there are
not more media analyses of the
situation that explore the origin
of the torture orders and their
prevalence. “The torture has still
happened,” she pointed out.

It could be a sign of public

    
  
   

the world.”
ANGEIADAVIS

years of politi-
cal involve-
ment, Davis has
been ﬁred, cen-
sured, and federally prosecuted
for her involvement with the
Communist Party, USA and her
support of prison abolition. She
is now a professor in the History
of Consciousness Department at
the University of California,
Santa Cruz.

Reports made on the hazing site are re-
viewed by Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students,
and Patrick Connolly, IFC Vice President. Sev-
eral reports were made this week, but none elic-
ited an investigation due to their unlikely nature

“Sometimes they’re going to be ludicrous.”
said Watkins.

McClinton agrees. “It’s carefully
screened. Dean Watkins is astute enough to be
able to sift through what’s a sincere report and
what’s not.”

In general, the newly-changed process
has received positive feedback.

WALKER WILLIAMS / THE RING—TUM PHI

KNOCKOUT. Senior Drew Heath has helped lead the resurgency of boxing on campus.

Boxing club making a comeback

BY BEN STINSON
STAFF WRITER

Friday night ﬁghts, rowdy crowds
gathered around the boxing ring, getting
ready to rumble, downing glasses of raw
egg yolks— none of these glorious images of
boxing can be found in Lexington, Virginia.
However, the sport of boxing has been gain-
ing more and more in popularity on campus.

While boxing enthusiasts do not ﬂock
to Lexington, boxing has existed in town in

throughout the rest of the 20”‘ century,
the only boxing that ever occurred in
Lexington was at VMI. Boxing had in
fact been a varsity sport at W&L up until
1930, when it was denounced as a dan-
gerous activity by the Generals’ football
coach and then barmed.

Due to such attitudes, insurance
problems, and the recent antics of Mike
Tyson, it has been difficult bringing box-
ing back to campus. Yet, three years
ago, boxing was approved as a recreat-

one shape or another for quite some time.

But starting in the Great Depression and

SEE BOXING ON PAGE 5

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR-IN-CI-IIEF

  

For the next few weeks,
students may encounter cameras
and film crews around campus.
The theater department, under
the direction of Professor Joseph
Martinez, begins ﬁlming an origi-
nal screenplay, “Dreaming and
Duelling” today.

, “The theater department
_ decided to increase the breadth
and knowledge of faculty by ven-
turing into a genre we have not
tried before,” said Nicole Risey,
’05, the ﬁlm’s production manager.

The ﬁve-person cast in-
cludes Adam West Lee, ’O7 Law,

‘ti

 

SAHAR KAMAII / HE G-TUM PHI

“DREAMING AND DUELING.” The theater department will begin ﬁlming
this original screenplay today.

Michael Wagoner, ‘O7 John
Bamwell, ‘05, Sarah Orvin, ‘O5 and
Paige Smith, ‘06.

Preparation for “Dreaming
and Duelling” began last year
when the screenplay was written.
Preproduction work such as learn-
ing how to use cameras and fmd—
ing locations, began over the
summer.

Professor Joseph Martinez,
who cast the film, held
screentests in October. Between
25 and 30 people auditioned for
the ﬁve parts that were cast.

“It was new for most
people, no one had done a
screentest,” said Risey. “Every-

thing we’re doing is new for most
people at W&L.” A

The actual ﬁlming will take
place between January 17 and
January 30. In addition to the ﬁver-
person cast, the Washington and
Lee fencing team and cheerlead-
ers will appear in the ﬁlm.

Extras will be required for
some scenes, so if you see the
crew filming, talk to Nicole Risey
about being an extra.

Shooting will take place in
Doremus Gym, in the Marketplace,
in the University Commons living
room and in the apartments in
Davidson Park.

. Throughout this term the

T heate department ventures into ﬁlm as it begins filming original screenplay today

13-person crew will be doing
“pick-ups” or reshooting scenes
if necessary.

The post-production edit-
ing of the ﬁlm will take place this
winterterm.

“Editing takes between two
and ﬁve hours for every 60 sec-
onds of on-screen film,” said
Risey.

Both Professor Martinez
and students will be involved in
editing, “furthering the educa-
tional value of the movie,” Risey
said.

“Dreaming and Duelling”

premiers May 6 and 7 in the Uni-_

versity Commons Theater.

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2005

1. Beta will not be returning to

campus next year — FACT
While Beta’s suspension was only for one year, W&L requires
the support of the fraternity’s national headquarters to re—colonize.
“They would need their national organization’s support [to
re—co1onize] which, it is our understanding, they do not have,” Dawn
Watkins, Dean of Students, said.

2. Alpha PhiAlpha is moving into Beta ’s
house next year — FICTION

News that Beta would not be returning sparked the rumor that
Alpha Phi Alpha, the newly formed African-American fraternity would
move into Beta’s house. This claim is not true.

“There is NO veracity to the claim about anyone or anything
occupying the former Beta Theta Pi house,” Watkins said. “No re-
quest has been made. No request has been granted.”

3. SPE is re-colonizing at
W&L soon — FACT

For a fraternity to colonize at W&L, they must go through a
three step process. First, they need the support of the university
faculty, administration, and Inter—Fratemity Council, second, the sup-
port of the alumni housing corps, and third the support of the na-
tional headquarters.

Sigma Phi Epsilon made a presentation to the Student Advi-
sory Committee and faculty, who approved SPE’s return to campus

 

 

contingent on four factors. The first factor is a document of a plan by
April 30. At that time it will be known if SPE is planning on returning
in the fall of 2005 or 2006.

After one year back on campus, SPE would have to undergo a
review by the SAC. Then, the SAC decides whether or not SPE can
stay on campus permanently.

4. Delt and AT O are coming to
W&L soon — FICTION

Delta Tau Delta, the fraternity that used to occupy the Intema—
tional House, and Alpha Tau Omega have expressed interest in start-
ing chapters at W&L according to Margo McClinton, Director of the
Commons.

However, they have not gone through the three step process
to get approved. ’

“It’s common [for fraternities] to ask preliminary questions and
make initial inquires,” Kevin Weaver, Interim Director of Student
Activities and Greek Life, said.

Weaver said that it would be hard to build new houses. That
process would be several steps down the road and would be “ad-
dressed at the appropriate time.”

5. Panhellenic is adding a sixth srat that
will be built next to Kappa - FICTION

\V1th sorority quota at a recent high and girls still falling through
rush, rumor circulated quickly that another sorority may colonize
here.

But Panhel has not had a discussion about adding another
sorority. According to Kristen Powell, Assistant Director of Student
Activities and Greek Life, Panhel would have to make a motion to
have all five sororities Vote on bringing in another sorority, and then,

   

if it passed, expansion could begin.

“Looking at physical numbers, there is a cause for concern and
thought,” Powell said.

When W&L originally planned the layout of the sorority
houses, there were six houses in the plan, even though only five
were built. Each of the houses was built to hold 80 women. However,
with the new pledge classes, some of the sororities are now up to 140
women. V

“For now, though, Panhellenic has no official plans to begin
researching or discussing the colonization of a sixth sorority,” Karlyn
Gold, President of Panhellenic, said.

6. A new srat would take their first
pledge class from the top 10 girls of
the other sororities bid lists — FICTION

This expansion rumor is not true according to Powell. Recruit-
ment would be the same as when Kappa Delta came to campus in
1997. Based on this year’s numbers, the new sorority would have a
quota of 60, while the other ﬁve sororities would have a quota of 28

O or 29, approximately ten less than this year.

7. The sixth srat would deﬁnitely
be Tri-Delt— FICTION

Powell said that this rumor has been circulating since she was
a student at W&L. No one sorority has a guarantee at getting the
sixth slot. Interested sororities would have to apply and Panhel
would make their decision based on the applications.

-House > D

 

sponsored by

The Washington and Lee University
Community is invited to the
John W. Elrod Birthday Celebration

Thursday, January 20, 2005
10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Elrod Commons Living Room

An Informal ongoing program of live music,
vocal entertainment and a short video
about John Elrod will be showcased

Light refresments will be served
Campus Activities Staff  

Elrod Review Committee
General Activities Board

 

 

 

' "  iriiinity would be the best birthday present

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2005

S3i;ii§“i3Tii)ED1TOR1AL

Cross the Creek...

As we celebrate John W. Elrod’s
birthday in our John W. Elrod University
Commons, we pause to reﬂect on the
goals of the Common living space. Is it
really a place for all to gather? Or do
the undergraduates claim the Commons?
We at the Phi have observed that the law
students don’t use the Commons. Sadly,
the Creek still creates a chasm between
the law and undergraduate students.
Here we make suggestions for Univer-

sity unity.

- We should give the law school
crowd an incentive to hang out with us.
This could mean a Law School discount
at the coop or a special at the bookstore.

° More attention for intramural
sports, such as'last week’s dodgeball
tournament, would boost overall campus
relationships.

° Student leaders should reach out
to their counterparts at the law school
for advice, support and involvement. The
law students were involved in college
activities before us; they can lend us their
experience.

° Keep in touch with your under-
graduate friends who cross the Creek for
their J .D.

Joint classes for undergraduates and .
law students are offered; try to take one
and get to know your fellow Generals
across the Creek.

Remember, Elrod’s main vision for
the Commons was as a place where ev-
eryone, undergraduate, faculty and law
students, in the University community
could come together.

Coming together as a campus com-

we could present to President Elrod in
his memory.

te of the Week

 

"Ihe mother is doing ﬁne.”

~ Spokesperson for the 67-year-old
Romanianwomanwhogavebirthtoadaughter
thisweek. V

 

 PHI

Editor in chief Erin Elizabeth Julius
Managing Editor Chris Lauder-man

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor
Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Directors

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen
David Seifert

Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara _
Stephen Lipscomb
Amanda Tholke
Vanessa Amess
David Kronenfeld

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Distribution Dir.
Copy Editors

 

 

CAIEYANDERSON
OPINIONS Eonor

EMAL-ANDnstNO@wwn)U

PAGE 3

Clubs deserve more attention from students

Since most students enter W&L with a solid background of club
participation and often leadership, it is hardly possible to forget the
days of long, annoying, mandatory club meetings, mandatory “dona-
tions” of teddy bears and canned goods, and strict attendance poli-
cies for club-sponsored activities. Yet, after all of the time spent dedi-
cating one’s life to extracurricular activities, there

member of a particular club, and to highlight that fact

on college applications. Club membership, in most

cases, was only available for the hardest working and most dedicated.
This was due in large part to the serious requirements for maintaining
membership. .

However, at W&L, and perhaps many other universities across
the nation, membership in a club is contingent upon... well, typically,
nothing. As in high school, clubs are open to any interested stu-
dents, but, unlike high school, there are very few, if any, requirements
for maintaining membership. Most clubs highly suggest that members
attend meetings and participate in activities, but there are no reper-
cussions for a lack of participation. Technically, a student can be a
member of nearly every club on campus, yet never participate.

With an average of 23.52% of graduates from 1999 to 2003, a fig-
ure found in a report from Career Services, pursuing some type of
advanced studies, it is necessary to question the fairness of the club
system. For roughly a quarter of graduating students, participation in
clubs is important for post—graduate applications. Yet, if membership
holds no qualifications, the dignity associated with club participa-

Lower national drinking age to nineteen

tion decreases. Thus, those members that actually dedicate much of
their time to club leadership often reap fewer benefits towards post-
graduate education than they would have in a more rigid system. In
addition, if a club has very few reliable_ members, it is likely that all
of the work will be placed upon those few. Thus, it is not fair to the

club or its most active members to be stripped of ef-

was at least one positive award that most people INTRODUCING fort from the club’s supposed members.
. sought for, whether they will admit it or not. Ulti— I  Yet, a more relaxed club system also includes ben-
mately, the benefit was to be able to call oneself a BECKY LEMQINE ‘()8 efits as well. Since leadership in a club is a voluntary

effort, a student who plays a large role in the club
may be able to impress post—graduate institutions
with his or her high level of will power and commitment. Plus, if
other universities have a similar system, why should the club sys-
tem here deny students any advantages that other institutions of-
fer? The club system at W&L also allows more students to partici-

pate. Many people simply are too involved with academics, sports,’

jobs, and other activities to really focus on clubs, but being a mem-
ber of a club without any particular obligations allows them to par-
ticipate when they have spare time in their busy schedules. It also
ensures that those who do actively participate have a genuine in-
terest in the club and are not participating solely due to compulsion.
So, with these perspectives in mind, should W&L clubs make an
effort to demand more of their members? While the answer to that is
ultimately based upon the discretion of each club, it seems that a few
very basic requirements could satisfy the demand for fairness, yet
keep clubs a manageable part of W&L student life. After all, if a stu-
dent cannot participate for at least two hours a semester, for example,
how can they, with a good conscience, call themselves a member?

    

photo murtesy of arizonddu

WHEN I D.I.P., YOU D.I.P., WE D.l.P. The minimum age of 21 is both unfair and impractical; how long will it be before government authorities recognize it?

"The ridiculous amount of heat being gen-
erated by the alcohol issue involves much
casting of blame in various directions. The
basic problem, I feel, is not a result of the
actions of the administration, the frats, or
anyone else on this campus; it is a result of
the singularly preposterous minimum age of
21 for drinking. ‘

Although abstainers
like myself are not a part
of it, the “alcohol culture”
is present not only at Wash-
ington and Lee, but in the
nation at large. I’d be willing to bet a sig-
nificant percentage of my net worth that most

people have their first drink in high school, '

or earlier. Most of this, as you likely know
from personal experience, goes on under the
table, away from the watchful eyes of stem
authority figures, and thus tends to be fairly
dangerous, given the inexperience of those
involved. And, of course, it only gets worse
once a young, impressionable drinker
reaches college, although W&L is fairly
unique among colleges for its particular
freshman alcoholic experience.

There are, of course, the usual arguments
of prematurely banishing things of an illicit
nature from a young person’s life— the mere
illegality of the act increases interest in it,
and so forth. And these are, largely, valid.
But there is a positive example of the ben-

MODERATE’S MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

efits that can be gleaned from a lowered‘
drinking age, and I think that even the most
conservative of us can finally agree that we
should look to Europe for an example. In
France, for example, the drinking age is 16,
and it is almost always the parents who in-
struct adolescents in responsible drinking;
most parents informally “intro-
duce” their kids to alcohol at
an earlier age than this, and the
result is a nation where alco-
holism is under control, and
. where responsible drinking is
present to a much higher degree than in the
United States.

Of course, most voters in the United
States would be appalled by the prospect of
a minimum age of 16, as it’s automatically
assumed that this would lead to a world
where high school juniors would show up
for class staggeringly drunk (as sometimes
occurs anyway, at least in my high school).
But I think there’s a definite argument to be
made for a drinking age of, at most, 19.

Why 19? Most parents would go into
hysterical fits at the prospect of high school
students drinking, so the age of 19 avoids
this entirely, except for high school super
seniors, who are truly a special case. More
to the point, this age would resolve the in-
consistency presented by our governments
at both the state and federal level— that 18-

20 year olds are smart enough tovote, smart’
enough to make the decision to fight and die
for their country, but not smart enough to
handle alcohol. In actual fact, the govern-
ment, recognizing this fact, has it on the
books that many “underaged” members of
the military are allowed to drink while they
serve, but this does nothing but reinforce
my point.

' The age of 21 encourages recklessness
and dangerous, absuive use of alcohol. It
discourages the development of responsible
drinking habits, and is the true root of
W&L’s present debate over alcohol policy;
the students are protesting the obvious in-
justice of the minimum age of 21, while the
administration, which seems to recognize this
injustice, is still bound to see upheld the
laws of the Commonwealth.

Sadly, this is one of those issues that is
likely to be tabled for a long time, as the indi-
viduals most likely to advocate a lower drink-
ing age (18-20 year olds) are the least likely
to be active about it, since they only have a
few years at most before it becomes a moot
point. Thus, nothing significant is likely to
happen on this front for sometime, and rather
than storming the halls of their state capitals
demanding change, 18-20 year olds are likely
to continue mildly shaking their fist, think-
ing of the problem as an impermanent one,
and leaving it for the next generation.

 

the warning.

you see at the bottom of an abstract painting.

Fried Chicken- T Is the debate over whether fried chicken is appropriate
on Dr. King’s birthday not the strangest you have ever heard? I, person-
ally, am for fried chicken, because it is delicious.

Those huge, brown, ﬂying roaches- T I overheard one of them the other
day, apparently, they have an extraordinarily complex plot for world domi-
nation that somehow hinges on control of Lexington, with Newcomb Hall
as their headquarters. It was way over my head, but I thought I’d spread

Alumni Weekend- -1» I wonder if alums will have to wear wristbands.

President Burish’s signature-  At the end of that pamphlet criticizing
the Princeton Review’s methodology. It looks like one of those signatures

Jps and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Facebo0k— ‘*"'? Who else is waiting for Facebook: The Citadel?

is dead.

Michelle Kwan-"”'”’ VV1ns her ninth straight U.S. skating title, but I bet
she has nightmares about silver medals.

West Virginia- 1‘ The citizens of West Virginia can now sleep safer in
their beds knowing that their governor has just received his black belt.

PLO-  Palestinian officials say it’s time to end violence against Israel,
but a- I wonder if they mean it, and b— will hard-liner Israelis reciprocate?

Dr. King- T

Angela Davis- ‘T She fought the law and SHE won.

NHL- L Players’ Association tells players to accept European job offers
for this year, and to start looking for jobs for NEXT year. American hockey

Lip Sync- 4"“? I say we get that British judge from American Idol, to go
along with the gong this year. -

W.- T Acknowledges, finally, that there are problems in Iraq, and with
world opinion of the U.S., and sets forth some basic ideas for solving these
problems. Good that he’s abandoned his creepy unfailing positivism.

“He found the light in the darkest hour, and the strength
for speaking truth to power.”

 

 

    

PAGE" 4

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2005



It’s the remix to tuition- rising costs
of W&L undoing one of its greatest

  

advantages over other universities

' i be

BLING. Cost of using these buildings for four years- $120k. We’ll soon lose our place as a “best bargain.”

Recently, the student body has been
abuzz with complaints about how Washing-
ton and Lee is changing, or how cherished
traditions are being lost. For instance, the
hot topics last year were saving Spring Term
and Buffalo Creek, which for the record are
not in reality time—honored
traditions. Spring Term
didn’t even start until 1970,
but that is beside the point.
Now, the issue is the new (or
should I say old but only lately enforced)

alcohol policy, as well as the supposed-

“Swarthmorification” and “branding” of the
institution we hold dear. I’ll leave these is-
sues for another writer to tackle. I only wish
to point out that one recent trend is not get-
ting nearly enough student attention.

I am not afraid of change. I think it is
usually something extremely healthy, natu-
ral, and necessary. I love how our school is
evolving and progressing. Each incoming
class is arguably smarter and more talented
than the previous. We are getting more di-
verse in terms of backgrounds, geography,
ethnicity, and even political identifications.
And our administration is rightly becoming
concerned with negative Princeton Review
rankings. I believe they are perfectly right
to want our school to be accurately and
positively represented. Yet, some changes
are not for the best.

Finally, I get to my point. One of the
major selling points, no pun intended, of
W&L has always been money. We have
consistently been high on Fiske’s Best Buy
list. So what in the heck has been going on
recently? Has someone high up decided
that raising tuition to follow the national
trend makes us somehow appear competi-
tive? Everyone, I’m sure, has heard the ru-
mors that tuition increases are really de-
signed to put us on the same tier as over-
priced schools like Duke, Dartmouth, and
the Ivy’s. But if this is true, could it really
be in our best interest? One of the main rea-
sons I came here was that for such an aca-
demically strong school, tuition was actu-
ally reasonable. This year, tuition is a stag-
gering $25,300. Four years ago, the figure
was much closer to $15,000. You do the
math. At this rate it’ll cost $38,000 to at-
tend in no time at all.

And don’t even get me started on text-
books. I send my parents a guiltyoemail ev-
ery time a new semester of book purchases
rolls around. Even novels (I’m an English
major) have gotten out of control in the pric-
ing department. Some classes have upwards
of ten books at fifteen bucks a pop. And
they aren’t even hard—covers! And you
know you’ll only get like $.45 cents on sell

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNE FINLEY ‘07

back day.

Maybe this is me being naive but I
don’t feel like a university needs to be reap-
ing a profit from college students trying to
be thrifty while they attempt to build their
new lives. After all, no one wants to use
their first real—world, work-
ing years to pay off col-
lege debt. We may have an
undeserved reputation as
being a spoiled, rich,
country club college but that doesn’t mean
tuition and other costs should be a reflec-
tion of that stereotype. So if students want
a relevant issue to unite behind, make’ it
this one. After all, saving money is an is-
sue that everyone can agree on. 5

W&L Costs: Rising Tide

2004-2005 Costs

Tuition-
$25,300

Total Fees-
$260

Technology-
$200 '

Room
(Single)-
$3,650

Room
(Double)-
$2,375

Board-
$3,600

Books

(approx)-
$400

Total-
(w/ single)-
$33,410

Happy New Year’s— How
you can really improve
yourself for 2005 and beyond

With every new year, new beginnings
are expected. Many people make resolutions
for self improvement. While I have nothing
against striving to achieve more, I’m not
sure that doubt and criti-

the fine line between reading and skimming

assignments, and rushing through last

minute papers. But for now, the novelty of

classes contributes to the exciting freshness
of the new year.

Cism make the b6StI1CW S€1f- IN THE IRONS Although there is no actual
imag€- 111 Spite Of this nega- ‘ proof of this, it seems to me
tivity, the new year brings a CARISSA SHIPLEY  that the blossoming of spring

lot of great changes. As

freshmen go through rush for the first time,
they get a new identity and a house full of
instant friends. Well, maybe this is a bit of
a generalization, but you get the picture.
Of course the sophomores get to see the
other side of rush for the first time. I was
quite surprised to see the new side of my
sisters. Tears of frustration, tears of joy,
and tears of stress all gave me a clearer pic-
ture of who my sisters are and how they
feel about sorority life. Of course, I wasn’t
left unaffected either. The barrage of ques-
tions from freshman really made me dig deep
and bring sorority into reality. I nei,/er re-
ally considered the sorority as a art of
myself, I always just viewed it as an activ-
ity. Now, I realize how easily greek life can
not just social life and academic life, but
also how it changes your personality and
perspectives.

In addition to all the new that greek life
brings along, the new year also brings new
classes. I start every class with a renewed
enthusiasm. I read, highlight, outline, take
notes, re-read, and treat every lecture like
its filled with vital information. Don’t worry
too much though, this scholasticism will
soon turn into cramming for tests, walking

A U.S. President’s Progress 

This story was written by Sam Langholz,
‘O2, and originally ran on Oct. 30, 2000. On the
near-eve of the President’s second inauguration,
we present this as a reﬂection on the goals of his

first administration.

On Election Day, we will have an opportu-
nity to choose between two candidates with two
very-different visions for America. Governor
George W. Bush has presented a clear vision over
the past two years of where he wants to lead our
nation. He believes that we, the people, instead
of the federal government, are the most qualiﬁed
to make deci-
sions about
our finances,
our children’s
e d u c a t i o n ,
and our
healthcare.

Bush un-
derstands from his past six years as the Gover-
nor of Texas, the second-largest state in the na-
tion, that the Federal government has not been
successful in solving many of the problems fac-
ing society, and that it has in fact been a hin-
drance to the innovations that he and many of
his fellow Republican governors have attempted.

Unlike some hard-right conservatives, how-
ever, Bush doesn’t merely want to reduce gov-
ernment, leaving problems unsolved. He is a com-
passionate conservative who wants to encour-
age innovation at the state and gederal levels to
come up with exciting ways to improve our edu-
cation and healthcare systems so that “no child
is left behind.”

Bush is economically responsible, and will
reduce the Federal deficit much further than
Clinton has been capable of. He will do this by
encouraging the economy through reducing
taxes for all people, not just targeted groups, so
that average Americans can improve the quality
of life for their families.

He also acknowledges the important role that
the.Federal government plays in ensuring our
national defense. Over the past eight years, the

  Phi Quick Poll

“Have you, during your time on the W&L campus, used illegalidrugs at least once?”

Yes
38%

No
62%

58 students polled, 31 male, 27 female. Poll has 90% conﬁdence in a +/- 5% margin of error

Phi quick polls are conducted via a random selection of Washington and Lee students, using the telephone directory.

He will, of course, restore honor and dignity to the
White House. He understands that we need a leader in A
the White House of whom all Americans can be proud,

and we all WILL be proud.

relationships has come early
as well. Out of the four of us in my apart-
ment, the number of girls in relationships has
gone from one to three. Sisters and high
school friends have even been bursting with
news in unusual numbers. The weather even
seems to be celebrating the new year with
unusual spring-like warmth. So what is it
about the turning of a number that makes
such noticeable changes in life? Is it really
the new year or is it a new outlook inspired
by resolutions? Can wonderful change re-
ally come from self-doubt?

Carissa Shipley can be reached at
shipleyc@wlu.edu. Letters to the
Editor should be directed to
phi@wlu.edu

military has been stretched to the breaking point
by overextension in too many places throughout
the world. Bush will work to improve morale in the
military, and to return our armed forces to the
strength that they held during the Persian Gulf
War, and he will rebuild our strenous relations with
our allies, which have for the most part deterio-
rated over hte past eight years.

He will, of course, restore honor and dignity
to the White House. He understands that we need
a leader in the White House of whom all Ameri-
cans can be proud, and we all WILL be proud of
him

It would be
nice if we could
contrast this
clear vision for
the future with
its Democratic
“equivalent.”
The Vice President, however, lacks a clear and con-
sistent agenda. Is he the populist ﬁrebrand that
will ﬁght for the little guy against the evils of big
business, or a “New Democrat” supporting busi-
nesses to help the economy? Is he a campaign
finance reform crusader, or the author of that
phrase “no controlling legal authority” in de-
scribing why it was ok to fundraise in the White
House?

Not only is Gore incapable of making up his
mind about his vision for America, but he has a
habit for exaggeration and statements which turn
out later to be untrue. The invention of the
intemet, for instance. How can we trust the high-
est office in the land to someone without the moral
core and backbone to lead beyond polls and focus
groups?

The choice is clear in my mind, and I en-
courage you to join me in casting my vote next
week for Governor George W. Bush, the next
President of the United States, who will lead us
into a peaceful and prosperous 21st century. And
if you’re a true blue liberal that just can’t ‘bring
yourself to vote Republican, vote for Ralph
Nader- at least he has some principles.

 

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 1'7, 2005

PAGE 5

  

' Boxing club

making progress

FROM THE FRONT PAGE

—ional sport at W&L, and boxing has
been growing ever since, despite a rough
start. '

Drew Heath, a senior and this
year’s treasurer of the boxing club, was
a freshman when boxing returned to cam-
pus. He joined the following year and
recalled what the conditions were like.

“The equipment wasn’t that great.
When you hit the heavy bags, they
leaked stuffmg,” said Heath. Over the
past three years, though, the club has
obtained much better equipment due to
fund raisers such as Tee shirt sales; and
while a boxing ring carmot be currently
found in the Doremus Gym, Heath hopes
that will change soon.

This year the boxing club has two
dozen members, who are placed in two
categories: ﬁghters and trainers. There
are six ﬁghters and it is only these six
who train for competition.

“The ﬁghters go through a month
of intense training, and they’ll go
through another two months of training
along with working on technique before
they’ll actually put on the gloves.”

As for the others who do not ﬁght,
they are there simply for the training-
but it’s not just any training. Boxing is a
year round activity from October through
April, and practices are four nights a
week, Monday through Thursday for

about two hours. Both male and female
participants go through a circuit of ﬁve
to nine exercises, ranging in skills,
strength, cardiovascular, and technique.
The training is so effective, Heath says,
that many varsity athletes participate in
boxing during the off season to stay in
shape. Practices are held on the ﬁfth
ﬂoor balcony on the Doremus Gym.
Heath, a former soccer player, notes that

’ there is quite a difference between box-

ing and other sports.

“Because [boxing]’s an individual
sport, you can go at your own pace. You
alone control the outcome. Whatever
you put in, you will get out.”

Most Division I schools and mili-
tary academies) including VMI) host
boxing as a club sport. Boxing, how-
ever, is not governed by the NCAA, but
instead the NCBA, the National Colle-
giate Boxing Association. It is a self
regulated body, and is non-school affili-
ated.

While the boxing club has not at-
tended any fights this year so far, Heath
hopes that the club will send at least
two boxers to the NCBA national meet
this April. As for next year the club
wished to attend the VMI Classic and a
meet in Pennsylvania as well. Even witli—
out the ﬁghts, though, Heath says that
it has been a great year, considering no
other participants have had any prior
experience in boxing.

For love of the game

Being a freshman hasn't kept basketball
player Greg Bienemann from shining

  

SAHAR KAMAU / RING-TUM PH]

BY KATHRYN KRALL I
STAFF WRITER

VVrth incredible shooting accu-
racy, powerful rebounding, and a
dominating presence in the paint,
Greg Bienemarm is an indispensable
player for the Generals. After a long
winless drought to start the season,
Bienemann realized that although he
was only a freshman, it was time to

 

step his game up to the next level.

He proved that not only was he
good at filling the center and clean-
ing up inside, but that he could also
be the go-to man for the team. At
Washington and Lee’s home touma—
ment, Bienemann scored a career high
27 points on 10-of-14 shooting. His
efforts lifted the team to the first vic-
tory of the season and sent them to
the tournament championship game
in which they defeated Washington
College.

Greg Bienemarm has been play-
ing basketball for as long as he can
remember. His father introduced him
to the game and instilled within him a
love for basketball. “My mentor is
my dad,” Bienemann said, “he always
supported me and was hard on me
when he needed to be. I share his
love for the game.”

At Chatham high school,
Bienemann played soccer, lacrosse,
and basketball. He chose to con-
tinue basketball in college because,
“that was the sport I loved the most

and I was best at.” He was named
the conference player of the year and
was an all—state selection as a senior.
W&L was his choice because of
strong academics as well as atlilet-
ics. '

At 6 foot 6, Bienemann’s
strength is ﬁnishing around the bas-
ket. He plays forward and center and
employs quick footwork and a strong
court sense to intimidate his oppo-
nents and awe his fans.

Besides scoring, Bienemann
consistently contributes less ﬂashy
but just as essential elements. \V1th
such a commanding player control-
ling the center, W&L can count on
hirri snagging the rebound and set-
ting up second and third opportuni-
ties when the first shot doesn’t fall.

In addition, Bienemann provides
intirriidating defense that includes
both speed and power. His statis-
tics are proof of his all-around

A athleticism. He regularly posts steals

and assists which contribute to the
success of the team as a whole.

Although he is young, Greg
Bienemann leads the team in scor-
ing, which signals that we can expect
to see more highlights in the coming
years from both Bienemarm and the
W&L basketball program.

 

to March 1.

41 B»-«5 1 6-7748.
/

and one-to-one academic advising.

if you or someone you Know wants to pursue a career as a
doctor, apply during the application period of September 1

 

 Week in Sports
     ,     Vvednesday    

7:00 -- Men’s Basketball
at Bridgewater

7:00 —- Women’s

Fnday

Basketball vs. S. Virginia

TBA —- Track at Dickinson

  Reality:

For more information, visit www.jhu.edulpostbae or call

all‘ G°V’3%%. 

   

Sunday

2:00 —- Men’s Basketball
vs. R-MC

 

1% WAAAAA 

“I don*t l1ax»*e the

The Johns Hopkins Posts-BaccalaureatePremedical Program
prepares college graduates with stmngsanademic records to
apply to the best medical schools by giving them the

personal 33-.8“¥'ItlQ.I,"'i, the necessary science andm

reqitired '{.‘.t?)¥;1§’S€?5 for
medical school.

 

T ;k
1: 1’ 1;

Pnst-Ba;:salaureate
Premedical Program

 

PAGE 6

Farewell,

. MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 20(l5


seniors!

Swimmers say their emotional
goodbyes S to older teammates

BY JOHN BOVAY
SPORTS \X/RrTER

The W&L men’s and women’s swim-
ming teams were both successful in their
ﬁnal home meet of the year Saturday
against the Bullets of Gettysburg. The
men won their meet, 141-64, while the
women improved upon last year’s result
against Gettysburg, losing by the same
score, 141-64. The meet was highlighted
by the Generals’ wins in both 200-yard
medley relay races.

The women, who lost this meet last
year by over 100 points, did not expect
to claim victory this year, but were ex-
cited to enlist the strength of freshmen
such as Jess Cobband Amy Roberson,
both of whom swam on the winning 200-
yard medley team along with sophomore
Abbie Sauter and junior Kristine Holda.
Other highlights for the women’s team
included Sauter’s victory in the 200—yard
breaststroke and Cobb’s second-place
ﬁnish in the 200 backstroke.

The men came into the meet with a
very different perspective. They claimed
victory over the Bullets last year and
were expecting a close meet. Highlights
for the men included swims by Captains
Chris Colby (senior in the 200 ﬂy) and
junior Clark Barrineau’s win in the 500

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  

=?s,=.¥¢:*:t.»s:>t:.<>: ﬂimiﬁéf .»5<'w<i.'£="’i"‘«?.~§f"%‘»'! J» M awarsi

'”’?£l.¥3f  §ac»;{e;>;§1:e;i h'§=’ Kim ¥.”:.:am" " '

freestyle. He broke the ﬁve-minute mark
for the first time in regular season. Other

important races for the men were .

Colby’s win in the 200 free and sopho-
more Michael Ginder’s wins in the 50-
and 100-yard freestyle races. The mens’
team is psyched to claim a second cham-
pionship title under Coach Joel
Shinoﬁeld. _

It was a sentimental night for both
teams, as each loses three seniors this
year: captains Laura Westerman, Tasia
Fisher, and Chris Colby; and Suzie
LaFleur, Michael Lee, and Phil
Walotsky. They have been committed
to improving the program and making
working out fun. They’re all wonderful
people with a lot to look forward to. The

team members will deﬁnitely miss them _

more than words can express. The team
celebrated the seniors’ commitments to
the team with family after the meet with
a six-lane cake ‘(one for each senior.)

The teams have only two more
regular-season meets before ODACs,
which both teams have dominated for
the past 11 years. Sophomore Swimmer
Sarah Bloom writes that, “Of course, we
owe our success to the wonderful coach
we have and the cohesiveness of the
team. Training isn’t always fun, but our
teammates always are.”

 

 

 

  

KELLY Boss / Sr PHGRAPH

Individual players wrestled well even though» the team as a whole was not as successful.

Sataloff shares success withteam

BY SARAH BLOOM
SPORTS WRITER

Freshman Jessie Sataloff led the
Generals at the W&L Wrestling Invi-
tational Saturday afternoon. The
team ﬁnished 7 of 8 teams. Several
teams attended the annual touma-
ment, including several strong Divi-
sion I and H teams. Local team, VMI
was in attendance.

Sataloff won the General’s only
title in the 174—pound weight class,
with a 2-0 record in his individual
matches.

“I did not think about who I was

wrestling, but what I had to do to

have a strong match,” said J essup
of his win over top-seeded Matt
Smith of Washington and Jefferson.
Smith, a senior, won the tournament
and also claimed the outstanding
wrestler award last year.

“His (J essie’s) work ethic in the
practice room and discipline outside
of it is unparalleled,” said Captain
Max Courtney of his new freshman
teammate.

Still, Sataloff diverts his success
to the team: “Wrestling is as much a
team sport as it is an individual sport,

_ and we have the makings for a very

strong team.” .

The men fell behind their com-
petition in early rounds. “The team
ﬁnish was mildly disappointing,” said
Courtney, “we couldn’t recover in
consolations.” Still, most of the Gen-
erals were able to claim success indi-
vidually in at least one match.

The team will face Ursinus, 13"‘,
and McDaniel in the coming weeks.
“We have a tough stretch of dual
meets coming up,” said Sataloff, “but
I think the team is well prepared and
I will do my best to help out wher-
ever I can.”

 

_ the east coast.

‘ ".vi’"rsi§-e;r.:x2-r:::t<-47t?;s:2 $u“3*a'i§l'cfD .“x,?$é§~f,%<”:&1ri§i‘iVx o:¢.§‘~é.‘s:t~fi%;::a anti "
:2 ii a»‘E§€%€"r';. ma~;ar"§ anaa$.rm.<>e:I érgma Raeem iénizrzra ,,
mamxzwa waitéctrnrnf, M32’ -23% mi. :11?-ls.-c»'.:.i'x_4.x grostixad-:2  ~§v~‘¢z*.>4*. m:.::ir.«m ?«%‘.~3d:   M‘  e-r»’ix~.:r._ ggemérr. s'33‘.“.n

ho Needs  
  Degree in Media?

If you want to pnapare yourself for a pasiticwn of 

in  mania er the arts, gnu’?! need a graduate
degraa. At Regent i.iaiver3ity’s scrim! nf Cnmrnunicatinn &
thaﬁsrta ynuﬁi  with mrrant national media profession»
sis in we of the truest tachaolaasgicaliy advanced Eaciiitias an

Visit our Vrrgaiia Beach Catriona diuring Fmvinw Wuknmi
to ﬁnd cut more about our degree prograrna iaeludiagz:

~ ﬂinamaﬁaiavisioniﬁnimatéon
v Communication Studies

a Phi). in Gemmuaicaﬁba

~ Tiaaalra Ans

- Joumaﬁiam

 
 
  
 

r:zsr“:é.2'':.r;*.il 13%’ éhss  ¥?;+as:t;~:¥»:€€' ihz §-iésgisrt .i.:"<,§s‘.2<.:JIwori 33.35" ‘ﬁsgxnxai ta   within the =éi?zxa1mzW:waf4i*2 vi’ 'za";,»,.<.;»*-ta.<.I7§II??«=§!}:‘3.Z3?.3

 

aria 1' ms?» t%:f‘}t§}€f?1:,EI.<g£§B7\_ §.3§."€&t’3:i§”... *1} :8. .3l.?{¥3I§ <~i{?€l‘? :
xriss _gc:>«.<<r.rsZxr:;, ‘rm =.»~.am-;:.m   r-aim? w» :12;
‘ 2 ar naltma-2’ I a"¥.§‘il'i$G ‘t.1?f"z'{-§l¥‘l. Regent ¥.3nas'meii§: is

 

 

  
 

Graduate

 
 

's.a.ea.era*.aa;fgaaaa,e§*§:a§§rea*%aw

3;

  .. 

:>n:.Vi-iv;.*u»..‘;£’. a:;-a <;‘s;.z.;\m.a"§‘£1’?=2-F a ”i"'ia§‘:’ MI. is

1'

 

 

  

“& LIEE  

EMILYMEDWARDS
AKlS&LIPEEDl'll0R

mm m

PAGE 7

Napoleon Dynamite offers a new breed of laugh-out-loud comedy

BEYOND HOLLYWOOD
ELYsE MOODY

If you ask the person sitting next to you if they have seen
Napoleon Dynamite, the answer will probably be yes. If this
unfortunate person happens to say no, then I am sure you will
immediately suggest that they watch it as soon as possible. Ev-
eryone is talking about this movie and its red—afro—ed mouth-
breather of a protagonist.

Not to mention Pedro, who will make “all

likely to answer “Heck yes I would!” Along the same lines,
exclamations such as “Gosh!”, “Idiot!”, and “Ughhhhhhhhh,”
are becoming more and more prevalent.

This week at the horse center, there was a BMX race. My
roommate, who was outthere for some eventing, came home
and said that she really wanted to ask them if they had “taken
their bikes off any sweet jumps.”

The thing that is most intriguing to me about this movie is
that it manages to be absolutely hilarious without using pro-
fanity. It is common for comedies and the actors in them to rely

on cursing, etc. to make situations funny or to
draw attention to themselves. I am not saying

your wildest dreams come true” if you promise I lust h0PC 30meb0dY can that this is ineffective; I think Chris Rock and
to vote for him, Kip, Napoleon’s brother and a ﬁnd their pledges some Dennis Leary are ridiculously funny, and I ap-

cage fighter in training, and, of course, Tina,
the llama we all know and love. Gosh! I love
this movie.

This movie is becoming a commonality inside the W & L
community. I used the movie all during rush week as a conver-
sation topic to fall back on. Almost everyone has seen and
loved this movie—and if you haven’t, you should GO NOW and
watch it. Who can deny the sheer awesomeness of Napoleon’s
dancing?

What more perfect Lip Sync dance could there be? Come
on, it is practically begging to be done. The “Vote for Pedro” t-
shirt is easy. I just hope somebody can find their pledges some
moon boots.

I have found that the Idahoan slang spoken in the movie is
quickly becoming incorporated into our everyday language. If
you ask a friend if they would like to order Domino’s, they are

moon boots.

preciate their senses of humor as much as any-
one else. It just seems incredible to me that the
writers of Napoleon Dynamite manage to elicit
such amazing responses in an audience by using language that
gets no stronger than “ﬂippin.”’

It is refreshing to be able to watch a movie with your par-
ents or eight-year-old cousin without feeling uncomfortable
about its content or language. In the same strain as Shrek, this
movie seems to appeal to everyone. It is just so easy to laugh
at the characters, and enjoy the subtle and intelligent humor.

In fact, I would argue that the writers’ purposeful avoid-
ance of profanity makes the movie funnier. Why is “ﬂippin’”
funnier than “f@#*in”’...Maybe it’s Napoleon’s endearingly
nonchalant tone. Maybe it’s his sweet Pegasus t—shirts. Maybe
it’s his fierce individualism (“. . .Whatever I wanna do—Gosh!”).
I don’t know; Ijust laugh.

W&L Bookstore Presents...

Who is Ted L. Nancy?

in his lucky shrimp outﬁt...

26-year-old dog, Cinnamon...

‘ He's a loyal fan of the King of Tonga...

Nutty Low Price: $15.00

Student Book of the Week

PHOTO COURTESY OF FOXSEARCHLlGHT.CO

A ween: feature of the Iootore am! the ins-um Plli

He's a concerned hotel guest searching for a’ lost tooth...

He's a superstitious Vegas high—roller who wants to gamble at a casino

He's a demanding dramatist seeking an audience for his play about his

He is, in reality, a supremely off-kilter alter ego who sends patently
ridiculous letters and queries to (and receives surprisingly earnest
responses back from) corporate honchos, entertainment
conglomerates, national publications, politicians, celebrities and heads
of state -— to everyone, in fact, from the president of the Bon Ami
Cleanser Company to Vice President Al Gore.

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts. lnfonnationl
Lﬁeservations 1-800-6484849 or wvvw.ststrave.com



 1'uaaLC.tn§)1mn&TxNTosCar£

Orfvia aoﬁroiw-1fwrALL Y0UC3&NE4lT%m.’

   

~FtittayN&!1!8%iu0dBu%\\ii§1Gtwl.u69l¢5F%&-19995
~—sawaayi~agmaIaaxasiwama°n-two
~smm * maoacaexaazaaeatamimmu
ammrrmwawmwwssm
~Daﬂyl-lotCom'myBarfltAM~¥6Pis
~oaaysmo,sam,amam11m-awn

Hwteﬂaokduaatsérsoutiumxflosyiiwwyl

0rdetBrmkfau‘24HounaDay,Scmndn7saweni:!

Located at
LEEHI'l‘RAvm.PLAzA
¥ﬂ&WﬁExl'rl§&HlCmﬂ$m!3W, VA

548-4636478
agmsooaaagamnmmot
Amlg¢?auiu!Cars&1’lnTa5voi

 

Cold weather should not dampen beauty habits

BY EMILY M EDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

weathercharmelcom, it appears as though winter is ﬁ-
nally here. Sayonara, 70 degree sunny days and ﬂip—ﬂops.
Bonjour, Burberry scarves and Ugg boots. It’s about damn
time. I was beginning to think I had wasted a significant

amount of money on winter cloth-
ing, much to my father’s chagrin.

For us ladies, it is easy to ne-
glect our precious skin during the
frigid temperatures. And we all
know that our beloved Lex isn’t
exactly the place to get the most
desirable facial or peel. In fact,

.  the wintenime sun cancause more - ~ V 4

damage than the summertime sun.
So here are a few tips for you.
Make sure you use a facial

moisturizer or foundation with SPF to protect you from
daily rays. As far as moisturizers go, I am a huge fan of
LaPrairie’s Cellular Moisturizer with SPF 15. A less-costly
option is Kiehl’s Ultra Facial Moisturizer, also with SPF 15.
If your skin can’t handle both a moisturizer and a founda-

tion, try Laura Mercier’s Tinted
Moisttnizer with SPF 15. If InStyle
loves it, you should too.

For dry skin, avoid taking
scalding hot showers and if you’re
into the exfoliating thing, once a
week is plenty. If your skin is ri-
diculously dry, try using baby oil
instead of lotion when you get out
of the shower. Don’t we all want
baby-soft skin?

Keep lip balm with you at all
times. From Burt’s Bees to the
trusted Rosebud Salve, no one

wants to see your chapped lips. You might as well cease
those pricey teeth-bleaching treatments if you’re not go-
ing to keep your lips in tip—top shape. Some Stila lip gloss

to top it off doesn’t hurt either.

Static hair is a pain in the arse, to say the very least.
Some mornings, there is almost no point in fixing my hair,

because one gust of wind, and the bit of curl that my hair
According to the weather‘ reports on could hold is gone. And don’t even get me started on split

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF KATESPADE.COM

ends. When I went to get my hair trimmed over Christmas
break, my stylist, who normally raves about my healthy hair,
told me my hair looked like a train wreck.

Once again, avoid the hot showers. Or at least wash

your hair in cold water. Hot water
rips your hair to shreds. Also, set
aside one (or two) days a week in
which you do not blow—dry,
straighten, curl or otherwise tor-
ture your hair. Like every other
part of your body, your hair needs
a break too. Matrix Essentials’

I Instacurespray wiltkeep the frizzies

and ﬂyaways at bay. I swear by it.
Use a deep conditioning mask
once a week in addition to taking

these measures. Try Frederic Fekkai’s Protein Treatment
Mask. Fekkai knows hair.

And lastly, merely because I don’t feel like writing any-
thing else, wear sunglasses. Retinal cancer is serious, and
it comes from not protecting your eyes. This doesn’t mean

that you have to wear some hideous

 

plastic creation that belongs to your
grandmother or great-aunt. There are
options, people.

Chanel. My new obsession,

thanks to Laguna Beach's LC. My
parents would ratherl didn’t have said
obsession. I recommend the 5065
Modiﬁed Masque.

Kate Spade. She’s more than

just shoes and cute nylon handbags.
The rachel and aubrey styles are very
attractive.

Oliver Peeples. He ﬂies a little

lower on the radar, but nonetheless, I like his trendy shades.
Take a look at the Bella Donna.
So there you have it, girls. It may be cold outside, but

- that is no reason to sacriﬁce our good looks!

Love,CAL, CA

Happy 21st Birthday Erin! W we

EME, and BTK

 

mm

 

PIIYSIIE.-!-.1’.  er:-«PT T
Orchardside Yarn Shop Care writ: ,,w.3;24? in mm‘ 5
Knitting-9p¢€W‘.V sh"?
 '.'f3,i'Ei ‘l:'9l'i;,:~:rll'i LE’: §'.l‘:!i'3’
Rtlllilm { vtxjazbm raga,
540-343-5m°1'377'N"'YARN E . . .' . V .1
icuumgu  5’ .-.031;-Ini,*. c:-rm-'f=':
Kni"ins°°"a8°n°“'°" “1°“%.“‘”'°°". .w...a.. Mo"
which carries a fabulous selection of basic '* “ '
and novelty yarns. kits. needles Ind ‘ _ _,
awessorie-‘~C°8*°“‘°'S°""°°"°““‘”"‘° >3§is»!i..‘lZ:5:.ii1l'lI3.'l'lg Ln:
fmishwithyourprojects.Mnilorderand ' « L
‘bili made . , _
“mm” W my .l.'_'ll'il'Ifl§.'IIl‘d.lC5
wrwmw-*W"‘“ some Evie:-dirinifz I
ygyway bctweenbailiglon andslaunlon  
0v!l~31/"“"“"“’2‘75"l"""""“""“""“"f""' £-‘q5:Ml"lf‘ °n:li:i.l.ii.ll*£a’ItiCtlJ. F
Rmgmmim xm1.Locm-dunawrhns ‘ ' 
farm that afar: "u-ricrappommiiiesfor fresh _ ‘
”““"""""““’°“ Fimsic atria" or 55:23:; fw 6:3 5,,M:5|lt-T W-'i“"’ GM‘ 9.5 '3“-” mlf E

‘lines-Stitl0'lll-5:00,WeduIIil8:00 !.?.l£.|iltl§?£?T5 with r:.u.1_v‘ gmmarra yo.*i° .i°?l'x.fé__l!' innit’-'-1‘ rorrcmrievzs-ow
:;w eegmicrzg or _p-'.r.I:!r* .:'.s’-la’..tii"l€t'.*z-:-fi'.'!.

u 

J

1 much better, and made my

 

PAGE 8

 
 

THE RING~TUM Piii

THE   AST ORD

FMILYEDWARDS
- ARTS&LlPEEDl'IOR

Eiiiigriixx/ARDsEvi@wiiin)Li

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2005

Potato Man offers a forecast for the upcoming months

Last’s week’s article featured the best and
worst of 2004. But I am done with 2004. We
are moving onto bigger and better
things....2005. This year is going to prove to
be much better than last *
year. How do I know you
ask? Because like all
things, 2005 is going to be
predictable.

It’s almost sad that we
know what is going to»hap-
pen over the course of the next twelve months.
People have become so conventional that I
can say with reasonable certainty exactly what
is going to happen

There will be a new, hot Hollywood couple
which will take over the covers of the Tab-
loids and be the lead story on “Entertainment
Tonight.” It’s where the girl next door will
meet the clean cut bad boy that everybody
loves. I

They will meet on set in New Zealand or
Morocco. They will date for 2 months and
declare that no love has ever been as true as
theirs and they will marry in front of paparazzi
in helicopters. '

But like all “true” love, theirs too will come
to an end. The divorce papers will include men-
tions of a stripper named Innocence, charges of
spousal abuse and reports of cocaine addictions.
Rumors will ﬂy and for a whole 12 ‘hours people
will cry.

POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE

They will say that they thought that the
marriage was going to work out. They will
ask how, if a marriage between two overpaid,
egotistical, beautiful people can’t work, whose
ever will. The world will grant the
spoiled marriage its fifteen minutes
of fame, and won’t think about ei-
ther actor again until VH1 does an
hour long show on shortest celeb-
rity weddings.

Also in 2005 a fraternity at Wash-
ington and Lee will get kicked off campus. It
might be for hazing, it might be for drugs, but
it is inevitable. Slowly the Greek system will
decline and rather than doing something pro-
ductive to stop it, people will sit back and
complain about the adminis-

tration.

overall accuracy in making its lists. People
will go to VMI to have fun rather than the other
way around and we will be known as the
sketchy kids.

And in 2005 college men across the coun-
try will realize how much better it is to import
girls. Men realize importing proves to be less
burdensome the morning after and less qual-
ity time is required. They come to understand
that girls at their school are mostly crazy and
other girls are normal. College women will
never have dates again and will have to go to
other schools to find men.

Also in 2.005, I will never get any dates
from W&L girls because of what [just said.

It will also be found that eating only
Rocky Road ice cream can
help you lose up to 18

The change in social cli- Slowly the Greek System will pounds a week. Rocky
mate changes the applicant decline, and rather than doing Road sales fly through the
pool, and gradually the ho- something Productive to Stop roof and people forget all
mogenous population of rich _ _ _ about that Atkins guy. A
white prep school graduates 1!, P501316 W111 Slt back and book called The Rocky
changes to an equal mix of Complain about the Road Leading to Healthy
races from 59 countries. . . . Town is written and

administration.

The administration is fi-
nally happy because they
have their diversity, which raises them two
spots on The Princeton Review’s Best Liberal
Arts School List. W &L is also dropped from
the list of party schools and the administra-
tion praises the Princeton Review lists for its

makes millions. The
Rocky Road hysteria
lasts only until 2006 comes and a new diet is
found that can make you lose up to 19
pounds a week.

We are only two weeks into 2005 and we
have already had ’a website circulate with

OUR  E»! . M
THE N01‘-SO-HAPPY COUPLE.The Potato Man offers his
insights on what events will transpire in the next 50
weeks of 2005. One thing’s for certain, Brad Pitt and
Jennifer Aniston won’t be together.

pictures made of Noah and anti—Semitic post-
ers by a few stupid (cancel that— VERY stu-
pid) freshmen. lt’s going to be a fun fifty-
two weeks.

Early says what’s hot and what’s not

THE MILK AND_ CHEESE GIRL
KRisTiNE EARLY

Last week Mr. Potato Man gave his opin-
ion on what was hot and what was not in
2004. Because I amsupposed to be his fe-
male counterpart, I thought I should put in
my two cents. So, here is what tops, and
doesn’t top my list for the year of Martha
Stewart, Janet Jackson’s exposed breast and
G.W. Bush reelection. We
won’t even get into what I
think about that.

Hot:

1) Tropical: Fish, tasty
drinks, and free t-shirts.
Enough said.

2) Fro-Yo: I never really
liked fr0—yo before I started
eating in the Marketplace,
but having grown accus-
tomed to it, I couldn’t imag-
ine dinner without  It
made my year just that

jeans just that much tighter.
3) “Sex and the City”: Ev-
ery good thing must come
to an end, but now that I
own all the DVDs, I can pretend that they
don’t have to. I love you, Santa! Thanks for
keeping me entertained and helping me put off
homework for just one more half hour, SJP.

4) “The K Spot”: Even though no one lis-
tened, I still played the best music on the air.
What can possibly beat two hours of Dave
Matthews, Something Corporate, Dashboard
Confessional, Alanis Morrisette and Match-

“'13

(I3 An anonymous pledge when asked about
pledgeship: “I am a happy Fiji pledge.”

 

31> Don’t look into the owl....

<I> I can’t figure out which Phi Delt was the first to
find the Todd Tate video... perhaps it was a group
discovery.’ ’

(I3 W&L Absurdity #1: The utterly illogical combi-
nation of miniskirt and (snow) boots. Next new
fashion: bikini and snow pants.

<1) I hope I shall possess firmness and virtue
enough to maintain what I consider the most envi-
able of all titles, the character of an honest man. -
George Washington

(I) The education of a man is never completed until
he dies. — Robert E. Lee

 

box Twenty? Certainly not country music.

5) Christmas in the Country: Hot cocoa and
cider and a bonfire...What more could a girl
ask for on a chilly December night?

6) My acceptance into W&L: I could still be
stuck up in Carlisle, PA. I don't even want to
think about it. New topic!

7) Scrabble: Having memorized almost all the
two letter words, I beat my brother four times
in a row at the end of the summer. It is the only
board game worth playing and it rocked 2004.
How many points are locked when played on a
triple word tile?
8) Traveller’s
new buses:
They’re fun to
ride in. Granted,
they are never
there when you
need them.

9) Garden State:
It is possibly one
of the best mov-
ies I’ve ever
seen. It may not
be as quotable as
Napoleon Dyna-
mite, but it defi-
nitely can’t be
beat.

10) Napoleon
Dynamite quotes: “I see you’re drinking 1%
milk. Is that because you think you’re fat?
‘Cause you’re not. You could be drinking whole
if you wanted to.” Boys, I challenge you to
come up with a pick up line as good as that.
And then, successfully use it on somebody.
11) The Introduction of the Milk and Cheese
Girl on the back page: I like to throw myself
props once in awhile. It makes me feel cool. I

PHOTO COURTESY OF lGN.COM

(I) If the newly initiated anonymous reporting of
hazing is such a credible and well-reasoned ap-
proach to allow neophyte Greek students feel bet-
ter protected and safe from reprisals, why is there
no anonymous hot line for reporting sexual as-
sault?

(I) “He thinks he’s a tough guy from Lookout Mt.;
he’s really a metro from L.A.”

_ (13 Motion to remove the term “Literary” from use.

by the Ariel. Do I hear a second? (For more infor-
mation read “In memory of WWVA” p. 8)

(13 Andrew Rothey—How many open parties did
Fiji have this fall?

(I) I would like to thank Phillipe (the independent 1

Mooch) for throwing an awesome party Friday
night.

<1) Andrew Rotliey should never be allowed to write ‘

for any paper again.
(D You look like a big, friendly pink kooshball.

<1) Don’t ever ride in a car with the Arts & Life
editor...she drove the wrong way down Main Street
this weekend.

<1) Eating a lot and then spewing bitchiness is my
form of bulimia

<I> Looks like Smokin’ Jim got smoked.

also like to use words like props. It makes me
feel even cooler.

12) The Facebook: You love it. I love it. College
students everywhere love it. So do stalkers.
13) Tucker Carlson: I may not agree with all of
his views, but
he is so cute
and charis- V
matic that I, 
like every other
girl in Lee
Chapel, was
drooling.

14) ‘‘After- , 
noon Delight”:
Will Ferrell is
amazing. And
this is possibly the best music video of the
entire year. Scary, I know.

15) F*ck Your GPA Party: The scary drive down
windy roads was well worth it. It was a great
way to end the year at Washington and Lee.
Not:

1) The New Drinking Rules: I am certainly not a
fan. However, I am going to follow Mr. Potato
Man lead and leave it at that.

2) Health Code Violations: I like to know that
my meals are prepared under sanitary condi-
tions. Please wash your hands before you
touch my food.

3) “The Biggest Loser”: Watching other
people exercise just doesn’t excite me. I’d rather
spend the hour running or biking. And we won-
der why there is such a big problem with obe-
sity in America.

4) Jerry Orbach’s death: “Law and Order” won’t
be the same without Orbach. Thank goodness
for twelve years worth of reruns.

5) Elizabeth Kubler-Ross’s death: Doesn’t it
seem ironic that the author of On Death and

 gutavntim,
changes your EH».

<1) My roommate came home without her under-
wear and in someone else’s pants last night. . .this
weekend, she wins, but next weekend, it’s all me.

<1) “It’s supposed to be easy in, easy out, but
there’s nothing easy about it. Oh, you’re sup-
posed to put it in backwards.”

(I) Who knew Parkview could contain so much v

debauchery, and so many people in one bed?

CD If you’re the really cute, blonde Veernie on the
track team, call Emily E.

(I) Kudos to W&L Dance for a fantastic recital.

(I) Note to self: punching broken glass is no way
to impress girls.

(I3 What do you prefer. . .sex or mashed potatoes?

(1) Happy 43rd Birthday to Jim Carrey and Happy
198th Birthday to Robert E. Lee (on Wednesday).

<1) Happy Martin Luther King Day!
(I) The Wllage was so not scary.

<1) Sorry Aussie, the test came back positive.

(I) Blushing...it’s what I do best.

<1) I’m amused by Erin’s lack of love life.

Dying met her decease? Maybe Ijust have a
sordid sense of humor.

6) Sexual Assault: No means no. No does not
mean Yes. It isn’t a difficult concept to grasp.
7) Splenda Shortage: As of early December,

    

PHOTO COURTESY OF A'rKiNs.coM

the supply of Splenda couldn’t keep up with
demand. I can drink coffee without two pack-
ets of this super sugar substitute. Clearly,
we have a crisis on our hands. I’m stocking
up like it’s Y2K.

8) The Atkins Diet: Eat some friggin’ bread.

arts and life.

(I) If you shave one leg, it feels like you’re in bed
with a girl.

(I) I would take the mashed potatoes.

(D I clearly am not hyper enough, I need more
diet coke.

CI) Check out thefacebook.com for a picture of BTK
in uniform.

<1) Streaking the Colonnade should happen in
Spring Term, not in the middle of J anuary.

<1) The Pit threw an awesome 48 hour party this
weekend.

<I>Do it!

(I) If I don’t get something on this campus, I just
assume it’s because I’m an independent.

(D You know that the parties in town suck when
you run into the whole campus at the Valley View
theatre in Roanoke.

CID Sign up for Panhellenic’s fitness classes! Who
wouldn’t want to learn hip-hop and yoga for a small
fee of $25 ?

(I) The Phi welcomes your anonymously submit-
ted Quick Hits, rants, raves and tales of drunken
debauchery sent to phi@wlu.edu

 

 
  

