     

» /rift/h
42??’/f8.755

 

THE

4.. if. '2 V-.  ~'

T/re rtrdem‘ mice of War/Iirrgion and Lee Umrerrigjl time 7897

Pro—life speaker sparks
controversy with comments

BY RoB ARMSTRONG
STAFF WRITER

Several students stormed out of the Science
Library Thursday evening, angered by the words
of conservative radio host Rev. Jesse Peterson.

Peterson’s lecture, entitled Abortion: Why
Democrats love it and Republicans hate it, spoke
out against pro-Choice advocates, Democrats, and
many prominent civil rights leaders. His visit was
co-sponsored by student organizations Contact
and Students for Life.

“The Democratic platform lacks values,” ex-
plained Peterson, a conservative Afiican—American,
“it’s anti—God and anti-farnily.”

“There is no way you can
believe in God and vote Demo-
crat,” Peterson added.

Peterson is the founder
and president of BOND: The
Brotherhood Organization of a
New Destiny, a national non-
proﬁt organization based in Los Angeles, Ca. Ac-
cording to Peterson, BOND’s mission is “Rebuild—
ing the family by rebuilding the man.”

Peterson is also host of the nationally syndi-
cated Jesse Lee Peterson Radio Show. He is the
author of several books, including SCAM — How
the Black Leadership Exploits Black America

Peterson spoke out strongly against many
civil rights leaders Thursday evening, including
Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton, and the NAACP.

“Most black Americans are suffering,” reports
Peterson, “[civil rights leaders] deliberately keep
black Americans down in order to gain more
wealth.”

Peterson said that African—Americans gener-
ally “don’t believe in themselves ... There is a lack
of moral character among the Afro-American com-
munity,” Peterson added.

Peterson was invited to W&L by a member
of Students for Life who had read some of his lit-
erature and wanted him to speak about his pro—life
views. The student’s family helped fund Peterson’s
visit. But his lecture focused speciﬁcally on the
effects of abortion on the minor-
ity community.

“There are 1,500 black ba-
bies aborted everyday in this
country,” said Peterson, a fact
which, according to Peterson,
displays the lack of character in
the black community.

Peterson believes the prob-
lem stems from the black
community’s dependence upon
the government for ﬁnancial sup-
port for the past 40 years.

“Black Americans have allowed themselves
to be used by organizations like Planned Parent-
hood  [these programs] take fathers out of the
home,” said Peterson.

Peterson alleges that many social programs,
including those put in place by the government,
won’t take care of African—Americans “unless the
man is out of the home.”

Peterson is also a strong supporter of the
Republican Party and urged the audience to think
about their vote: “It is wickedness that encour-
ages you to [have an abortion], said Peterson. “The
Republican platform supports God, country, and

“There is no way you can
believe in God and vote
Democrat.”
REv.]EssE PETERSON

“...we regret that Peterson
went off topic and
offended many members of
the community, we never
intended that to happen.”

Alexa Moutevelis A
PRESIDENT, STUDENTS FOR LIFE.

family  America is at war with [the abortion is-
sue], between good and evil.”

One of Peterson’s most controversial opin-
ions concerned his beliefs against affirmative ac-
tion. Peterson did not support preferential racial
treatment. He believes that support of racial con-
sideration in the admissions process highlights Af-
rican-American dependence on government pro-
grams.

His controversial views did not go without
opposition. After his speech, Peterson opened his
lecture to the 40—plus crowd of students, about half
of whom were African American.

Kaela Harmon ’05, disagreed with Peterson’s
outlook on the African-American community.
“[There are] systems in place
holding black people behind 
I’m not saying that the govern-
ment owes us, but blacks have
had to ﬁght for over 240 years to
gain the rights that we have to-
day.” ’

Another student challenged Peterson on the
high statistics of teenage pregnancy found in the
United States. She argued that many societies
across the world have demonstrated that sex edu-
cation has been an effective method to combat teen-
age pregnancy.

Peterson disagreed, stating, “everyone is
driven by sex because of broken families  good
parents would teach abstinence  schools teach
how to have sex.”

But when the student disagreed with him,
explaining that her public school was ineffective
because it taught only about sexual organs rather
than methods of contraception, Peterson cut her
off, and said, “see, you’re having sex.”

Doug Allen ’06 is a member of the Minority
Students Association. His reaction to Peterson’s
speech expressed his sadness and frustration: “As
a black-American, I’ve had to go farther than most
people in certain ways to get the same opportunity
for an education . . . It was insulting [for Peterson to
say] ‘that a majority of blacks lack moral charac-
ter.’” Allen said that if affirmative action looks at
more than just SAT scores and
grades to determine the quality
of a student, then he would sup-
port it. Allen added, “When you
say these things, people aren’t
going to care about abortion any-
more.”

Alexa Moutevelis is the
President of Students for Life.
She regrets that so many stu-
dents took offense to Rev.
Peterson. After the speech,
Moutevelis stated that “Peterson no longer repre-
sented the views of Students for Life, outside of
his pro—life views  we regret that Peterson went
off topic and offended many members of the com-
munity, we never intended that to happen.”

Students for Life did not receive fimding from
the Executive Committee this fall term. The EC re-
quires organizations to have a non-partisan mes-
sage in order to receive funds. Contact was the
other co-sponsor of Rev. Peterson’s lecture and
does rely on EC funds for their organization. Con-
tact has also invited Republican pundit Tucker
Carlson to be their keynote speaker. Carlson will
speak to the W&L community later this week.

/ ii ,
  , V0LUMECVHLN0«12
ONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004

I////,

SH MURRAY THE RlNG—TUM PHI

THE NEXT Miss MARYLAND USA? junior Kristen Youngblood will compete in the Maryland pageant.

J uniorto compete in Md. pageant

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Kristen Youngblood ‘06
will take the stage at the Miss
Maryland USA finals in Decem-
ber, competing with over 50 other
Marylanders to attend 2005’s
Miss USA competition.

It’s not something she'd
usually do, Youngblood admit-
ted. At first, she thought, “This
is garbage.”

But something—-curiosity
perhaps—inspired her to give it
a try.

Youngblood sent in an ap-
plication and a photo and waited.
Soon after, a pageant represen-
tative scheduled an interview
within the week. Days later, she
received an invitation to the ﬁ-
nals in Chesapeake, Md.

Youngblood only entered
the “scholarship competition”
on a whim. Afarnily friend urged
her to enter a pageant for years,
telling her that most finalists
have no pageant experience. The
Bowie, Md. native still wasn’t
interested. But when her friend
wisely showed her a prize list, she
warmed up to the idea.

And well she might. Miss
Maryland USA 2004 will receive:
seven separate scholarships, a
complete set of diamond jewelry,
three outﬁts, gift certiﬁcates for
clothes and spas, beauty prod-
ucts, a luggage set, free consul-
tations with acting coaches and
self—improvement counselors,
dance training, interviews with
modeling agencies, a ski vacation
for four, electronics including a
ﬂat screen TV, DVD player, fax
machine, camera, and MP3 player,

and more.

In addition, Miss Maryland
is bound to receive numerous ap-
pearance contracts throughout
her reign of one year.

Prizes for runners—up aren’t
nearly as impressive. But as a
Maryland finalist, Youngblood
will receive beauty products as
well as free consultations with
acting coaches and cosmetic
dentists.

Last year’s Miss Maryland
USA, Tia Shorts, is a licensed
makeup artist who enjoys work-
ing with the elderly.

The Miss USA pageant,
not be confused with the Miss
America pageant, was founded
in Long Beach, Ca. 50 years ago.
Pageant winners work to support
breast cancer and AIDS research.
The current titleholder is former
Miss Missouri Shandi Finnessy.

University to hold conference on
public service Thursday, Friday

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF

STAFF WRITER

Students who are looking for help in decid-
ing to work in the public service sector need search
no further.

This Thursday and Friday, Washington and
Lee’s Project for Public Service Employment (PPSE),
will host a conference for students interested in

public service employment. The conference, en-
titled “Get Engaged! Employment in the Public Ser-
vice Sector,” is open to students who are inter-
ested in a life of public service.

Workshops will help answer common ques-
tions about working in the public service sector

See PPSE on page 2

  
 
   

C

GLOBAL SECURITY. Robert Kaplin delivers an address on global security in Lee Chapel.

ORBIN BLACKFORD / THE RING-TUM PHI

Journalist offers predictions on future security

BY LEAH KERsHAw
STAFF WRITER

Robert Kaplan’s lecture, “Global Security in 2010”,
was held in Lee Chapel on Thursday, October 21. Kaplan is
a renowned international correspondent, journalist and au-
thor. Kaplan’s visit to campus was sponsored by The
N ASDAQ/Sun Trust Program in International Finance and
Commerce and the Fishback Program for Visiting Writers.

Kaplan proposed suggestions for the operation and
administration of the US  The US Army must decen-
tralize its army to be successful. The State Department and
the Department of Defense must merge to create a united
front. Military power must be taken away from the bureau-
crats in Washington and delegated to the ofﬁcers in the
battle ﬁeld.

In the 215‘ century, the US Army is “learning how to
win wars without firing a single shot.” Instead of ﬁghting
wars for a country, the US Army must train local forces to
ﬁght in their own wars. Once the local troops are success-
fully able to ﬁght, the US Army must remove itself to the
background.

Large platoons of soldiers must be replaced with small
deployments. These “highly trained charneleon-like indi-
viduals” must establish relationships with the people and
learn the native language(s) of the country where they are
ﬁghting. These small teams of soldiers, reminiscent of Lewis
and Clark’s explorations in America, must know the terrain
of their surroundings to be most effective.

Kaplan acknowledged terrorism as a continuing prob-
lem for the world, especially in the Middle East. As the
Middle East continues to modernize, terrorism will ensue.

The “intensiﬁcation of religiosity” in the Middle East makes
the area a “fertile breeding ground for terrorism.”

Kaplan said that “humanitarian relief operations will
be integral to winning a war on terrorism.” When an organi-
zation enters a country bringing relief, people are more re-
sponsive than they would be to a military invasion. Relief
workers are able to develop personal relationships with citi-
zens, learning important information through those relation-
ships. This information can be crucial to undermining ter-
rorists’ plans.

Kaplan defended the war in Iraq, comparing Saddam
Hussein’s rule of Iraq to Joseph Stalin’s dictatorship in Rus-
sia. He said Hussein's Iraq resembled a “vast prison yard lit
up by high voltage lights.” Iraq’s transition to democracy is
slow because of the repression that Iraqi citizens lived un-
der for two decades. It will take time for Iraq’s “newly
emerged free society” to successfully function as a democ-
racy. Kaplan said that the war in Iraq provides the US with
the thankless job of providing a “security umbrella” for Iraq’s
emerging democracy.

Kaplan presented a positive view of the US Army’s
progress in Iraq. One third of the country has been a suc-
cess and another third is “on its way.” The ﬁnal third of the
country is where the problem lies. The ﬁghting is concen-
trated in this area surrounding Baghdad. Kaplan predicted
that the US Army will stage a major offense to retake this
area after the November 2"“ elections.

Professor Mark Rush, acting head of the Politics de-
partment, was impressed with Kaplan’s speech. “The talk
was disarrningly forthright.” Rush said he believes that

5“

Kaplan s predictions can be given a lot of credence.”

 

  -«*'—“-“"Wf“:"* *’.‘*“;.“~“i‘ ,
~~up§,HqN§,lj“<ON at l..lE.E. 0NllV[:l»tSU‘v

PAGE 2 ‘°ﬁE'i“?”9”élJﬁt‘5”

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004

 ll;‘Rl.‘3.I—’ll 7»rl’ro
NEWS

Fall is Choral Concert

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

October heralds Domestic Violence
Awareness Month, but protecting women
is a year-round effort in Rockbridge
County.

In the past year, local citizens do-
nated almost 4000 volunteer hours to
Project Horizon, an organization dedicated
to reducing domestic, dating and sexual
violence.

“Four thousand hours is one staff
member working two years,” said Project
Horizon President Brian Richardson, “if
you think about how much it would take
to pay a staff member for two years—
that’s a lot of support.”

Originally begun in 1982, Project
Horizon wasA'a grass—roots effort to pro-
vide services to battered women. Aimed
at raising domestic violence awareness
and helping survivors of abuse, Project
Horizon has been a community endeavor
from its begimiing.

“We were offering services besides
sheltering,” Richardson said, “and had a
long time to build a base of support.”

0' KELL Boss / THE RING -TUM PHI

Chamber Singers, University Chorus, jubilee, Southern Comfort and General Admission performed their annual Fall
Choral Concert for the Lexington community last Tuesday in Lexington Presbyterian church. University Chorus is
pictured. Among the pieces they performed were Green Broom, Lay A Garland, Notre Pere and Feller from Fortune.

. 11:00 a.m.‘«-11:55 pmf

 

March 2000 saw the opening of
Lisa’s House, the Project’s shelter.
Rockbridge citizens held a capital cam-
paign to raise funds for the shelter. “The

  

        
    
   
  
 
 

    

   

   
  
 

A A  A, ,A _ A whole thing wasacommunity event,” said
.11,30_1{9oPA,§,A * A - Katie Kirby, Outreach Coordinator, “it was
   3 
2,09 A ‘ _ And volunteer presence has not di-

. pm-3.00pm . . .
3_AO0_A3A55 m-AA. A AA mrrushed. From5to l0p.m.everyevemng,

‘A - " P e j the shelter is run entirely by volunteers.

A “We can’t adequately run without the

 A-A  . 0 I community’s he1p,”Kirby said. During the

3?39Pm. j"   A A  V  A  -   , A    school year a majority of the volunteers

4100~4I55Apm_ ’R€8i1m¢Wti1i11Ag '  ,A '  C‘a22z:zzonx274  A are students, Richardson said, “it’s a lot

. V , . ~   ’ *3  A A AAtie-(39);, UnA13aersi§VCaxeeArSezt<ices. . .  _A of W&L students and a few from SVU.”

I s=1s—6:30:m::   :3 I  andtrnecmxacular oppanunmes cf’  wazcfféiz .. A During the summer it’s, “mostly people
7:00pm ‘ ,  ; ‘ I)a£1_  gs1§;,Acaon Without Borders/Idea;1ist.o:g AA , 'Ac';»fw»:ow rm» from the community.” he said.

8:30pm A ' '  f Public Service Employment  A  "A A tfgmzraanx Tbgrifef. A Kelly Legg , a Washington and Lee

junior, volunteers about 10 hours to Project
Horizon each week and has worked there
since September 2002.

“I have remained there because I
truly respect the staff and the work that

PPSE

FROM PAGE 1

 

1V.:f':‘:§ck2:r is.....s....:;..... Nmgpgga; Man: 
' . A  Rea} aigout Boards A A . A . .
A ' " ‘ »Aré£eiAnswers.:o your Hard Questions. C.o_mzzon:.2‘7-.,6  I

90:06: am, 4    I  345   ‘L  .

      
  

  

 am. ._-  a.rA:d 

 

Cammazré   " A

   
     

:..h-Proﬁt Secret 

     

 
   

    
 

. . . I I r«*on;-  r2:oo.r:oc   * 
  $ea;c1;:.‘How to use IAdealist.org arrdrzwre   .6013
‘rm           cmaw345
A VVorK.f9rAmerica'A   A ' . Commons 216"?
ssful Entrepreneur 8:  cm i am. 214:
. . _  r A _ 27

   
   
 

,goa+caaa1_ 

 
 

leader.

    
       
         
    

   
 

 

   

“Probably answering “How to walk from

“D01” d0 anything “That if you have
wrong.” the questions, and oonﬁdonoo, you oan Davidson Park to the skills, and we’re all about how hot you
-Jake BIOWII ‘03 that’s about it.” go anywhoroj’ quad in heels.” pretty politically are, rjght?___” A
"Lana King ‘08 -Kah Ndi ‘07 ‘N 10016 Conkling ‘08 aware.” -Laurence McKenny ‘05
-Annie Vliegenthart ‘O8

“Deﬁnitely social

Local citizens support Project

they do. I enjoy being a part of a group
that works so hard to help so many women
and children when they need help the
most,” Legg said.

Legg learns from Project Horizon’s
victims. “While I cannot change their cur-
rent situation or even guarantee that they
will never need to seek a shelter again, I
can listen and support them in that mo-

ment,” she said, “They have taught me » - ~

what it means to take life one day at a time.
Law enforcement ofﬁcials also ac-
tively work with Project Horizon, illustrat-

ing another way the shelter is interdepen— _ ~ A

dent with the community. “It’s a very good
program that they have,” said Officer Doug
Pugh of the Buena Vista police force. Vic-
tims appreciate the “emotional support”
that Project Horizon provides, Pugh said.

Project Horizon runs on a $400,000
budget, “and every year we have to ﬁgure
out how to get money,” said Judy Casteele,
Executive Director.

Much of the Project’s funding, about
two—thirds, comes from state and federal
grants, according to Casteele. A small
amount, about $20,000, comes from local
government, with the rest of the Project’s
funding coming from local individuals and
organizations.

Project Horizon receives $32,000 in
grants from the Department of Housing and
Urban Development. This funding is in
jeopardy because HUD requires all orga-
nizations that receive its grant money to
enter the names of clients in the HUD hu-
man tracking system. Project Horizon pro-
tests such a database for victims of do-
mestic violence.

Earlier this month, Project Horizon
joined an effort to protest HUD’s policy.
The Project asked citizens to call the White
House and speak out against HUD’s hu-
man tracking system on October 7.

“The goal is for the White House to
receive thousands of calls on October 7th
and for Americans to continue calling the
White House until HUD ﬁxes this devas-
tating problem for victims of domestic vio-
lence,” said Casteele.

such as “Will I be able to pay my bills?” or “How will working in the public service
sector affect my plans for law or graduate school?” Other workshops will teach stu-
dents about how to write the perfect resume, how to interview well, how to ﬁnd a public
service job, and how to get started with public service on campus. Other workshops will
feature lectures on grant writing, fund raising, and how to be a successful community

PPSE encourages students to register for the conference by Mon., Oct. 25. The
registration form as well as a full conference schedule and description of workshops
can be found at http2//ppse.wlu.edu/events/conference.htm. _

If you need more beef, this is a little more information on PPSE:

The PPSE matches Washington and Lee graduates with “paid positions with
innovative public service organizations addressing signiﬁcant social issues such as
healthcare, law, education, economic development and housing.”

TALKBACK: A W&L girlis competing for Miss Maryland USA. What has W&L taught her?

  

 

“Well, a pageant’s all

 

Blue Billue
Auto center

is now a 

A smmmrmansmame
to mom oammun or sump: mu 4» not 4» instant mmuarm e
ewnmraa ‘mu 4:» umu. an 4 on menus: in»

-<*v~a>>m
zmmgom-*:>:

 

Giﬂi}-[l‘st§'7I|A~: for“ .21 §’!‘l'iII.”€;1 tit 

 

A name Vast! um :11  '
Slim Ridge Mill) neuter
I-ma 'ﬁ!3§—IIﬁ=|ia nu‘wrre ~mama:a ‘meta. tam 559-263-9311

.A 5-Wﬁii'h!h'I§&%&‘55\Eiﬁisi$¥%%$?§I&5§W:$%'¥H%§&¥’i¥$%§§§k%%‘5§Hﬁﬂﬁﬁiﬁz

 
    
    

Gram] [lugging E" "i”“i3i§'7$YiI:ia"ﬁ”"‘; 
Snaciats   I m”Wi'“W"W“'  “""*‘."' .
. am [rt immnat swam

pumauwannuus-uwvvuun»sn<amw»un’swn:unmn-man.

Take
pics
for

US

  
 

  

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004 0

IEI‘;RIN<:;-iaII.IPHI
STARE EDITORIAL
Registration for sections a must

Reprinted from the May 17, 2004 is-
sue. We still believe that this is an impor-
tant issue that needs to be addressed.

Registration starts next week. We at
the Phi want to know why we can not reg-
ister for specific sections of a class.

When we register for classes, we tell
the registrar over the internet what we
want to take. Then we anxiously wait for
the moment schedules are available on-
line. The problem with this system is that
every student at W&L is unique. Some of
us here at the Phi, for example, are night
people while fewer of us are morning
people. Different people perform better at
certain times of the day.

Since we do not know what section
we are in until right before classes start,
we have no time to change them. Often,
professors will not even allow students
to change class sections. Some of us have
tried to change sections, but were told that
we have to stay in that 8 a.m. class. Oth-
ers who perform better in the morning get
stuck in 3-5 p.m. classes. By the time you
get out of class in the winter it is already
dark.

If registration changed, students
could not complain about not making it to
class because it was too early or too late.
They also could not complain about the
professor they are taking because they
hand-picked her.

Competition among faculty members
to attract students to their section is a
good thing. It would only improve teach-
ing at Washington and Lee. For example,
if no one is registering for Professor

iJones’s section, he can ask the popular
Professor Smith what he can do to improve
his teaching and attract more students.

We believe that a registration system
where a student registers not only for a
class, but also a section is the best alter-
native. Students who want to be in the 8
a.m. classes will be able to take them and
those who want to take all their classes in
the afternoon can as well. This market
based approach would be more effective
than a thousand end of class evalua-
tions.

   

te of the Week

“Honor [a W&L] will be bargained away
within 50 years.’”

~Anonyrnous W&L Professor

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderrnan

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Copy Editors Dane Boston
Shane Wilson

David Seifert
Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Director
Distribution Dir

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—twn Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060

Fax: (540) 458-4059

Email: phi @wlu.edu

Subscription rate $40

CAIEYANDERSON
OPINIONSEDIIOR

EMAIL ‘EDU

 

PAGE 3

Executive Committee must publish
members’ votes in all non—Honor matters

A couple of weeks ago, the EC had votes
on two student-proposed amendments to the
White Book. The first, proposed by alum Brett
Kirwan, aimed at requiring EC closed hearing
votes to be unanimous in order to create a find-
ing of guilt in an Honor Violation. The second,
proposed by senior Kelly Jo Larsen, wanted to
strike the’ words “lying, cheating and stealing”
from the introductory section, arguing that such
a list is a codification of the Honor System. The
first amendment, to force una-
nimity for guilty verdicts, was
unanimously voted down.
The second amendment, to
strike “lying, cheating and
stealing,” garnered four aye
votes, from senior rep Thomas Worthy, senior
rep Noble Stafford, second-year law rep Dannel
Duddy, and Vice President Cristin Nunez (a se-
nior). Voting against the latter amendment were
freshman rep Margaret Elkins, sophomore rep
Lane Morgan, sophomore rep David Colman,
junior rep Wheeler Sparks, junior rep Charlie
Yates, first-year law rep Craig Hensel, third—year
law rep Marc Granger, Secretary Justin Arnold
(a third—year law student), and President Marie
Trimble (a senior).

The funny thing about this is that, unless
you were at the relevant meeting, you probably
didn’t know of these vote tallies until you read

MODERAIE’s MUSINGS
CAIEY ANDERSON ‘O6

them just now. The Executive Committee, in
their report of the minutes from that meeting,
did not state who voted for what. While the
Committee did report, in those minutes, that the
two proposed amendments were brought up,
discussed, and voted on, the summary of the
amendments’ fate was a simple “...did not pass
on first reading.” I hope I will be considered
rational when I suggest that this is insufficient.

One of the only matters for which the EC does
create such postings of which
members voted for what are for
EC appointments to lesser stu-
dent government committees
and the like. They’ll announce
who got the office, and then list
the EC members who voted for the appointment
of that individual. But this is far from the only
matter the EC considers in public, and certainly
most students would think it’s notthe most im-
portant. Why the strange exclusion of vote
tallies on most other student matters?

I think the EC ought to make a point, from
now on, of publishing how individual members
vote on matters that are considered in open ses-
sion (those parts of EC meetings which are open
to the public). The EC is, after all, a representa-
tive body elected by the students, and thus it’s
important that students know how particular
members of the EC feel about one issue or an-

other. -When I, or any other member of the stu-
dent body, goes to vote for EC candidates, we
should know how our incumbents have voted
on issues that we care about. It is simply not
feasible for most students, given their busy lives
here at the University, to attend the 7:30 Mon-
day meetings of the EC (sorority women often
find it impossible to ever attend, as chapter meet-
ings are almost always at a similar time). Most
students, I would guess, gain knowledge of EC
proceedings through the postings that the EC
makes of its minutes, its budgetary allocations,
and its guilty verdicts in Honor Violation closed
hearings.

Now, I fully agree that closed hearings
votes, along with all the other aspects of closed
hearings, ought to remain secret. And I under-
stand that the deliberations that produce the
budget allocations are more a complicated at-
tempt to reach a consensus rather than black
and white “yes” vs. “no” votes. But don’t we
deserve the extra couple of lines of ink it takes
to print the votes of the members? This really
is something ought to know about.

Hopefully this is just something the Com-
mittee overlooked, they do have a lot on their
minds. Still, I think it’s important enough an
oversight to correct. Knowing how one’s
elected representatives voted is critical for the
health of our student government system.

Clouds of smoke: N onsmokers have rights too

When I first saw that President Burish had banned smoking in
the dorms, I was ecstatic. After moving in freshman year and going
over the rules with my dorm counselor, I was confused about why
burning a candle was considered dangerous and against the rules
while smoking was not. It seemed that having a candle burning was
no more dangerous than having a burning cigarette in terms of fire
danger. I was also hoping that the new rules would discourage stu-
dents from smoking all together. I’m not really sure why our genera-
tion started smoking in the first place. By the time we were born, it
was a well known fact that smoking was dangerous to our health and
could cause cancer. Many of us
also grew up during the cam-
paign that told us that smoking
isn’t cool. Although, I’m not re-
ally sure why we would ever
think that something cancerous would be cool in the
first place. No matter the reason for beginning to smoke, people know
that they are risking their own health. While I think it would be good
if people didn’t smoke, I realize that their health is none of my busi-
ness and they should be able to risk it if they want to.

So after the new rule, I was looking forward to not having to
smell smoke in the halls and stairways of the freshman dorm. Little
did I know that there would be consequences that I hadn’t predicted.
As spring arrived and the temperature rose, more and more people
would gather on the stoops of the freshman dorms and smoke to-
gether. Because it was hot, the windows were often left open in the
stairwells and the smoke would just drift right in. I was pretty happy
to go during summer break to some clean air, but I recognized that
there isn’t a lot I could do about the smokers on campus.

Coming back after summer break, it seems like there are more and

IN THE IRONS
CARIssA SHIRLEY ‘O7

' more people on campus who smoke. I tend to be pretty aware of them

because I struggled with asthma and allergies and still get very irri-
tated by smoke. I’ve tried not to let it bother me by avoiding people
who are smoking, but sometimes, they are totally unavoidable. How-
ever, it seems like smokers have taken over, and its getting harder
and harder to avoid them. There are students walking down the col-
onnade smoking between classes, faculty smoking outside of the
front door to their building, and people smoking on benches every-
where in between. I think there needs to be one place on campus
where people can smoke because I’m sick of smelling it. Not only are
smokers jeopardizing their health, but they are jeopardizing other
people’s health, too. The worst is when a student smokes before
class then sits down right next to you in class. There is no escape
from the 55 minutes of sickening smell. People should quit smoking
for themselves, not for someone else, but in the mean time, would a
little consideration for non—smokers kill them?

photo mnrtegi of /4penn.e,dn

AHEM. Smoking is seemingly on the rise at Washington and Lee. While we
know this is Virginia, could we show a little love for the non-smokers?

 

BoSox - T Everyone who’s not from New York or New Jersey has to be pretty
happy with the comeback. But then, if you’re from New York or New Jersey,
and you’re at W&L, you’ve probably got other things to worry about anyway.

StemmomPla7a— 1, Look, people, the place clearly isn’t intended for auto-
mobiles.

Pyongyang Vs. Washington- -17 “We’ll disarm when you promise not to
attack.” “No, we’ll promise not to attack when you disarm.” Soon, they’ll be
calling each other “stupidhead,” in an escalation that will only end when one,
deeply wounded, runs off, screaming “I’m telling!” Meanwhile, nukes are
being built for no defensible reason. Grow up.

Speaking 'll‘adition-  It’s not pretty out there, a sad sight (or lack thereof)
for us W&L purists. I give it ten more years, tops. Indulge the bitterness by
listening to Gwen Stefani croon “Don’t Speak,” then cathartically set your
freshman year SPEAK shirt ablaze, sobbing quietly to yourself.

Football- T Holy crap. I know Guilford isn’t so hot this year, but still.

Winter- T Apparently it starts in early October now.

Ups and Downs

This week, Opinions Editor Caley Anderson presents, in honor of Election
2004 the Decisive Episode, with only ups or downs, no side—to—sides.

 

Campus Notices- 1, We have two very ﬁne newspapers at this Univer-
sity for you to write opinions and letters to the editor to. Campus Notices
is NOT for huge election year rants, dammit.

NHL- ,1, Ifyou thought the 1994 Baseball Strike was bad....

Infectious Diseases-  Sickness goes through W&L like wildfire.
But this year is nothing compared to the great mono plague of aught-
tW0.

Washington Redskins Election Forecast- T Want to know who’s
going to win on Nov. 2? Watch the Skins battle the Pack on Oct. 31. For
nearly a century, an unbroken streak has run thusly: A Skins victory
means the party currently in the White House gets to stay in power, while
defeat means a takeover. YD better wear Favre jerseys for Halloween.

Funny Pages- 1» While hungry, funny young cartoonists starve,
Marmaduke, Dennis the Menace, reruns of Peanuts, and ::shudder:: FAM-
HX CIRCUS continue to stink the papers of America up.

NASCAR on Co-Op TV 1. Man, I feel hicky enough already.

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4

 



Diversity and tolerance
doesn’t mean we
should dissolve differences

Last year, when I was a fresh-
man, I was told that “race relations”
at W&L would not improve until
“people step outside of their com-
fort zones” and “accept diversity.”
While I’m sure the

what the people who ask this ques-
tion fail to realize is that there are
far more tables of white students sit-
ting together. Why do girls sit to-
gether? Why do people who play

the same sport sit to-

person who told me REFLECTIONS gether? Why do
this had good in- ‘ people in the same
tentions it is worth MARCASBANKS  fraternity or sorority

noting that this par- V
ticular student, who was a self-de-
scribed advocate for diversity, did
not belong to a single ‘fminority”/
multicultural/diversity focused or-
ganization. After thinking about it
more, I realized that this phenom-
enon is not limited to this student
but to the entire student body.

I have often heard people say
how much they support the diversi-
fication of W&L but when it comes
to proving what they say their ac-
tions leave much to be desired. I
know what you may be thinking; just
because a person says they support
diversity does not necessarily mean
that they have to belong to a “mi—
nority”/multicultural/diversity fo-
cused organization. Not all of the
republicans join College Republi-
cans, not all of the democrats join
Young Democrats, not all of the
people who can sing join a singing
group, and not all of the
multicultural students join
multicultural organizations, so why
should people who support diver-
sity be required to join an organiza-
tion for that purpose? Do not get
me wrong, this is not at all what I
am saying. I am only trying to show
that I have had conversations with
people who have droned on and on
about how they support diversity
and how it is such a good thing but
when asked why they don’t belong
to a multicultural organization they
suddenly get very quiet.

Some people I have‘ talked to
have said that they didn’t know the
organizations were inclusive, or
they thought that they would not
be welcomed. Specifically in con-
versations that I have had this is
usually when people ask “Why do
all the black students sit together?”
Although this a valid question,

sit together? Why?
They sit together because they all
have something in common that con-
nects them. Especially during meal
times people just want to “kick back
and relax” and have a good time so
it is only natural that a person would
seek out a group of people with
whom they can most easily do this.
When people do this they are not
saying they do not support diver-
sity or that they wish to segregate
themselves but rather that they
looked around, judged who they feel
most comfortable sitting with and
made a decision based on those cri-
teria.

Diversity is more than just hav-
ing people on campus who look dif-
ferently. It is also about exposing
the campus to the differences people
have. I find it interesting, though
not a surprise, that people ﬂock to
parties and social events but are no
where to be found when there is a
cultural event on campus. If a per-
son truly supports diversity, what
they are saying is that they truly
support knowledge, knowledge
about other cultures and their his-
tory. We should not exclude differ-
ences but accept them and move on
because we have more in common
than we have differences. The
multicultural organizations on cam-
pus are striving to‘ make W&L a
place not only where people support
diversity but a place where diversity
is able to thrive. So if diversity/
multiculturalism is an issue that is
very salient to you, please consider
joining a multicultural organization
so you can have an impact on the
W&L community and ensure that the
campus is a place where everyone’,
regardless of the amount of melanin
they possess, is able to feel com-
fortable.

Phi Quick Poll

A Quick Note on Quick Poll Methodology- This poll
is scientiﬁcally accurate.. Students are randomly selected
from the University Directory, and then contacted for their
opinion. Using rudimentary statistical theory, the pollster
then compiles the percentages, the margin of error, and the
degree of conﬁdence. Results from this poll should be
considered statistically valid, and representative of the
Washington and Lee Student Body.

 

“Of Left, Left Center, Center, Right Center, and Right, which most
accurately describes your political views?”

LEFT
15°/0

LEFT

27%

CENTER
7%

RIGHT
10°/o

RIGHT

41%

 

MONDAY, OCroBER 25, 2004

Junior Jadakiss Junkie

oﬁers W&L version of “Why?”

) P 0?‘?-£0t{7'fl:A 0],‘ 0% ranarzitom

FOR SAND USE ONLY. We know it’s \X/ashington and Lee, but must sandals and flip ﬂops continue to dominate on into November?

By now most of you have heard or at least heard of

the song Why by rap artist Jadakiss. In this song he asks
questions about the nation and American society. Well
fellow pursuers of higher educa-
tion, I too have some burning
questions for our beloved cam-

WHY?
pus. And so without further ado, KRISTIN EVANS ‘()6

here is my version of the song Why.

Why do people wear ﬂip ﬂops in the winter?

Why isn’t anyone in Lexington riding on spinners?
Why did they add a new course for majors in the c-
school?

And why is being conservative on this campus oh so
“cool?”

Why is the speaking tradition dying fast?

And why is it acceptable to get up from a café table but
leave all of your trash?

Why do we throw the word “minority” around?

And why are there so many university cards in the lost
and found?

Why do we claim to want diversity but when speakers
come nobody shows up?

Right of assembly not currently ttreatened

When you are thirsty and out on a Saturday night why
can’t you ever find a clean cup?

Why did this kid in class act like he’d never heard rap
before?

And why did I see that same boy blaring L’il
Jon in his car?

Why don’t we observe Dr. Martin Luther King
Jr.’s birthday?

And when I ask about the confederate ﬂag, why
is tradition the only thing that anyone can say?

Why is expressing my opinion so controversial?

And ifl don’t want to party why am I labeled as “antiso—
cial”? Why? I

All these credits that I’m earning,

what’s the true worth of higher learning?
Hope I’m not caught up in the system.
Why does it have to be like that?

Try to just live my way,

seems like it’s go Greek or hit the highway,
why, oh why?

Just food for thought.

by

Patriot Act, other Homeland Security legislation

The right of Americans to peaceably assemble has
always been fiercely defended. However, in light of
the current political situation, one can’t help but won-
der: are the defenders of civil liberties leaving them-
selves defenseless?

Protesters planning to gather against a U.S. train-
ing academy for Latin American soldiers cried a cheer
of victory this week when an 11”‘
Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that
metal detectors at a protest may be
unconstitutional.

The protesters took the case to
court, saying that the metal detectors were essen-
tially the government’s excuse to search them, and
control their protest. The Court, ruling in their favor,
cited the possible indefinite war on terror, saying that
civil liberties could not be suspended with no end in
sight.

The protesters (and the media) celebrate this as yet
another victory in the cause of protecting sacred con-
stitutional rights. But are we really seeing the whole
picture?

The truth is, these protesters are the same who as-
sembled in outrage after the towers fell on September
11, 2001. Then, just three short years ago, they de-
cried the government’s lack of protection. The gen-
eral sentiment was, it’s your job to protect us, why
aren’t you doing it?

In response, the administration adopted the airline
regulations, the Patriot Act, and new policies for pro-
tests. The general agitators would have you believe
that government agents patrol the protests, search-

INTRODUCING
KATHERINE GREENE ‘O8

ing people without reason, silencing their message,
hindering their freedom.

In fact, the metal detectors are not an entirely new
process for holding a protest outside a vulnerable
military institution, especially not during a time of
war. What do the protesters have to hide?

In removing these protective measures,
the protesters are turning a blind eye to-
wards the political arena in the same way,
they say, the government did three years
ago. Protests such as these make prime
breeding ground for terrorist operations:
close quarters with a military weak-spot, a crowd in
which to hide, and plenty of national attention. The
metal detectors were simply a very basic method of
applying a marginal form of security for not only the
military base, but also, the protesters themselves.

Ultimately, they really don’t have anything to hide.
And chances are, most of them in the crowd wouldn’t
agree with the terrorist who could potentially enter
the crowd and launch an attack.

What it comes down to is numbers. The metal de-
tector and possible search guidelines would deter
some people from attending the protest, whose suc-
cess relies entirely in numbers.

But what message are the protesters sending here?
They need to decide on a goal. Would they prefer
protection or vulnerability? Regulation or freedom?

Rather than just attacking whatever decision the ad-
ministration makes, they need to choose a cause and
stand behind it. That is what the Constitution truly
provides.

Write Opinions for the Ring-tum Phi

The Phi is currently accepting new opinions writers. If you’re interested in

editorial journalism, then e—mail Opinions editor Caley Anderson at
Andersonc@wlu.edu, or e—mail phi@wlu.edu.

‘l’<l><1><l>¢

 

  

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004



' PAGE 5

Hagerman captures ITA D-III title

Becomes ﬁrst woman tennis player to win a national sing/es championship in

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

With scathing footwork, de-
cisive volleys, and biting ap-
proach shots, senior Lindsay
Hagerman captured the ITA Di-
vision HI singles championship.

The tournament took place
at Florida Gulf Coast University
over Reading Days. She qualiﬁed
for the National Small College
Championship by taking first in
regional competition, and went
into the competition as the num-
ber one seed.

Soundly defeating her first
several opponents, Hagerman
easily advanced to the champi-
onship round. She downed Liz
Bondi of DePauw University in a
hard-fought match that ended
with Hagerman on top, 6-3, 7-6
(5)-

With this victory, Hagerman
became the first woman’s tennis
player to win a national singles
championship in W&L history.
She also advanced to the Small
College Super Bowl, where she
met Division II champion, Jing
ling Liu of BYU-Hawaii.

After being down early,
Hagerman won the match by de-
fault and advanced to the super
bowl ﬁnals. In the championship
match, Hagerman lost to Larikah
Russell of Southern Nazarene.
Her overall record this season is
13-1. She is ranked third all-tirne
at W&L with 93 singles victories.

The daughter of a tennis in-
structor, Hagerrnan began play-

  

 

FILE PHOTO / RING-TUM PHI

MORE THAN JUST A TENNIS sTAR. Lindsay Hagerman, Division III
tennis singles charrrpion and dorm counselor, is pictured with seven

of her 25 freshmen ladies.

ing tennis at a young age. “I was
on the court as soon as I could
hold a racket,” she said. With
two younger sisters who play,
the game was more than just com-
petition; it was a family event. At
Highland Park high school in
Dallas, Lindsay played for fresh-
man and part of sophomore year.
She left in order to focus on
USTA tournaments.

In coming to Washington
and Lee, Hagerman played a cru-
cial role from day one. Not only
did she dominate on the court,
she also played a leadership role
and provided an example of an
intense work ethic.

Over her four years,
Hagerman was named an All-
American six times for both
doubles and singles. She won
Academic All-American honors
numerous times, and in her jun-
ior year was named ODAC Player
of the Year.

Although she is proud of her
own accolades, her real excite-
ment comes from her team’s
achievement. They have placed
in the top ﬁve each year at Divi-
sion IH nationals, and have domi-
nated the ODAC conference.
Hagerman’s goals for this year are
to win the national championship

‘ and to ﬁnish strong as a senior.

  
   

W&L history

Both seem likely. “This year, I
think that we have the strongest
team yet, and we have a good
chance of winning nationals,”
said Hagerman. As captain, she
has taken the role of motivating
the team to practice hard and
play well.

Her tennis success did not
come easy. For Hagerman, ten-
nis is a year long sport with prac-
tices, running, work-outs, and
drills taking up several hours a
day. Despite her packed sched-
ule, Hagerman finds time to excel
at acaderrrics. On top of that, she
is a Dorm Counselor, a student-
atlrlete mentor, and a member of
GSA. Hagerman plans to go to
school for a Master’s degree in
history. After graduating, she
would like to become a teacher
in a middle or secondary school.
Although going pro is not in her
future, she wants to play in tour-
naments and stay competitive in
tennis.

Hagerrnan’s favorite player
and tennis role model is Monica
Seles, who, like Lindsay, hits with
two hands on both sides. Be-
sides admiring her game, she also
is impressed by Seles’s resiliency

‘ in overcoming a potentially ca-

reer-ending stabbing.

Though her tennis skills awe
her fans, it is Hagernran’s ener-
getic personality and unfailing
kindness that make her a truly
amazing person. Her talent and
zest for life make her not only an
attribute to the W&L community,
but also a wonderful Dorm Coun-
selor, classmate and friend.

Men’s Soccer team ﬁghts in vain

BY JOHN BovAY
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team hosted ODAC
rival Virginia Wesleyan on Satur-

’ day, but fell short in a hard-fought

match.

The game started slowly, al-
though intensity was high
throughout the afternoon. The
ﬁrst half yielded only two shots
by each team, and the score was
tied 0-0 at halftime.

In the second half, the Mar-
lins scored two early goals that
seemed to kill momentum for the
Generals, but W&L fought back
hard, unwilling to let up so eas-
ily. Within six minutes, the game
was tied after goals from senior
captain Justin Mygatt, assisted
by another senior captain, Peter
Miller, off senior midﬁelder Brian
Pirkle’s comer kick; and freshman
forward Jack Palmer’s goal, a shot
into the back of the net after a
pass from Pirkle.

After the Generals tied it up,

the teams began to fight even
harder, resulting in a yellow card
for both teams.

Questionable officiating
made the game more interesting,
as fans from both sides disputed
the referee’s calls. In particular,

W&L ‘took one shot that seemed‘

to go in the goal and then bounce
out, that would have given the
team a 3-2 advantage. When
VaWes freshman Damien
Woodley scored his second goal
of the game with less than 4 min-
utes to play, the Generals tried to

mount a last-second surge but
fell short, losing another great
game in the W&L-VaWes rivalry.
Washington and Lee’s record is
now 5-6-3 (2-3-3 in ODAC); Vir-
ginia Wesleyan improved to 9-5-
2 (5-2-1 ODAC)

The Generals’ last regular
season game is on Tuesday,
when they host Lynchburg at
4:00. ODAC tournament play
commences on Saturday, when
the Generals will travel, likely ei-
ther to Bridgewater or to face Vir-
ginia Wesleyan again.

BY RYAN GRITTER
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

I’ve had writer’s block
now for a good hour. And it‘s
all because my greatest muse
for sport’s writing, anger, is
missing. I’ve realized that for
possibly the first time in my
life, I’m not passionately an-
gry about something in the
sports world.

Sure, I still have little
grudges that I hold on to. I
don’t like the DH, and I think
the system of allowing the AH
Star game to decide home ﬁeld
advantage is a little strange
(Random Drunk Guy at Cave-
man: I think in order to make

- the All Star game mean some-
thing, they should take a
player away from the losing
team for the season. . . .and ev-
ery year it should be Bonds.)
But these issues are all petty, I
can deal with that. I think it
must just be the fact that jus-
tice has been served.

For starters, the Yankees
lost in possibly the most em-
barrassing fashion possible.
As I reread my column from
last week about the curse, I
realized that even my movie-
like scenario was not as excit-
ing as what happened in real
life.

I say justice has been
served because they didn’t
deserve it for the years their
players had. Sheffield, ARod,
Giarnbi, Jeter, Posada, Loaiza,
Mussina, and Brown all had
disappointing
seasons....emphasis on
Giambi. While they had a great
roster, they didn’t have chem-
istry and none of their players
fulﬁlled expectations with the
exception of Hideki Matsui
and Mariano Rivera.

And as you may or may
not know, I hate the Yankees
and the Red Sox are my sec-
ond favorite team. And now
the teams with the second and
third most history (to the Yan-
kees, and shut up Cubs fans
you don’t have a claim here)

Gritter not angry
at world of sports

square off in what should be a
high scoring series.

Then I begin to think
about basketball, and all I can
think of is Shaq and how much
I love him. It’s funny how his
pathetic jokes were so irritat-
ing with the Lakers, but so
funny now that he’s with the
Heat. In a matter of seconds,
after I heard of the trade, he
went from my most hated bas-
ketball player to my favorite.

Then what makes this
even more exciting is that ﬁ-
nally basketball season will
not be interrupted at all by
hockey. No longer will I be en-
joying football and basketball
highlights on Sportscenter to
have my time wasted by
hockey. The only thing that
should make top plays from
hockey is one of those amaz-
ing falling—down-getting-hit-
while—shooting goals, or an ac-
robatic save.

And ﬁnally we come to
football, where I must first in-
form you of my opinion about
team success. If my team isn’t
going to compete for a cham-
pionship, I want them to be ab-
solutely horrible, to ensure the
best draft pick. And that’s why
I’ m actually rather pleased that
the Fins are 0-6, cuz they’ve
been incredibly frustrating to
root for my whole life, and now
we’ll ﬁnally have an exciting
first round pick next
year. . ..assuming we don’t do
something stupid.

The prospect of us draft-
ing a skill position player in the
first 5 picks just makes me
giddy, could we even possibly
draft a quarterback for once
instead of signing" other
peoples’ backups?

So in conclusion we get
to watch a satisfying World Se-
ries to ﬁnish up the Baseball!
Football season (my personal
favorite) and transition
smoothly into what should be
a Shaqfilled Basketball/Foot-
ball season for me. This is the
most wonderful time of the
year.

fy.,‘VFi€Id:;fi0CkBY  _
f;-at LyrrcIiburg—«t~:3G

Wednesday

' M Soccer
at Emory and Henry--4
' W Soccer vs. Hollins--4:30

‘TOW    

  

Fnday
' Volleyball at
Emory Invitational--4:30
‘ Field Hockey at
Eastern Mennonite--5:30

 
   
   

in W‘-Seesaw.  . .
;   Wesieyanéiir, I
‘ 7'.;‘V<>lieYbe1_¥at Tlmortr .j

:mi:aapaar;2 ,

  WPd®ei.$rh¢r*%1'»1t

 

  
 
 

 cmaegisao “ :i if

Sunday

° W Soccer at Chowan——l

SINCE

1897

   
  

THE RETU RN 0?‘

WEE

  

($40) 464-2253

COSTUME PARTY Oct. 31
2-6 p.m., ages 2-12, Toy Museum; 540-458-3772

li@,§c'rtt I

for EACH member of your
group wéth this coupon I:

www.naturaibri¢lgeva.com

new nus YEAR....THE uvms ronso: “"“*”"'"

(ms Realty Ame)

. ce$FEATURiNG%a»

so HMJNTEB ﬂ0N5TER
MUSEUM 7-10 pm

‘I’ DARK IAAZE
lscamiea)

  

ocr. 21-23 and ocr. 23-31 "'m=.Axotrr ma:-:31
at   ggyugwj Psycuo Room

' ‘L00 OFF

" I I

: Abmissioﬂ | spasm. meets
I

I \IO(NEW)

I an-o(NEWl

RETAIL 800?)!
Sponsored by:

(aaatél. ...'...,'m @

  
  

 

   

of Historic Lexington, WI

Thursday, October 28“‘
through
Sunday, October 31“
TOURS Bl‘-ZGI.\" AT 8:30

EVERY ‘s.\.'=IGleIT
* ‘k * it * * * it * *

7:00pm Tours Also

on Friday 29"‘
and on Saturday 30'"
****&*****

RESERVATKJNS REQUIRED

540.464.2250

 
       

  
  

  

r».,yg
,3‘.

        

  
     
       
 

2.2-: 2;": i:»:sreuua:.a.i:n«l‘r:: 

    

' Eat your greens

  

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Rapliine Road
Rnpline, VA 24472
540-348-5220 - l-8T7-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

CﬂforworksI1op&dassiii{oI'nIIﬂon.

   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
 

Halfway between ltxington and Slaunton
On I8! / I-64 or exit 205. Raphin; 4nu‘Ier west on
Route 606. Raphine RM /mm/M a woriing
farm that oﬂirrs "U-PICK" opponunitie: for fresh
fmir when in season

'llIes-Sat 10:00-5:00,Weduntil8:00
zmoxsxarnshnncoiu

   

  

Wash your
hands

(I><I><I)<D(I><D<I><I>(I><I)<I><I>(D(I>d><I>(D<D<D(I>(D<I><I5<I>

wvvw.ststravel.com.

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or

Panama

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party
Cruise! V
5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica

From $459

City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTravel.com

1-800-678-6386

    

PAGE 6

 tzaftm. :-In 

    
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
    
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 

BY Two DEAD GUYS
ULTIMATE FRJSBEE TEAM

Can you remember the last-
time a team from W&L almost
toppled an ACC powerhouse?
Do you even recall" the last time a
team from W&L even took the
same playing ﬁeld as a team from
a huge D1 program? Well over
Reading Days, a certain team
from W&L did just that.

Two Dead Guys, W&L’s Ul-
timate Frisbee club team, partici-
pated in the Wolfpack Invita-
tional, an annual fall tournament
hosted by North Carolina State
University in Raleigh. The tour-
ney featured some of the nation’s
elite college Ultimate teams, in-
cluding squads from Indiana
University, Florida- State, Florida,
UVA, and the host team, NC State,
which finished last season as the
#4 team in the country.

Overshadowed by the big-
ger schools and better talent,
W&L’s team approached the tour-
: ney with realistic expectations.
“More than anything, I was hop-
ing we would gain respect from
the bigger, better teams in the re-
gion,” said Tim Smith, the team’s
staff advisor. “I hoped we would
play well enough to prevent us
from getting destroyed, and get
our team’s name out there for the
future.”

The W&L squad did much
more than that. In their opening
game, Two Dead Guys came a few
points from upsetting the
nation’s #7 ranked team, The
Darkside, from UNC-Chapel Hill.
The W&L team eventually lost
13 to 9, but that opening game
brought an instant realization —

our team could legitimately com-
pete with some of the best teams
in the country.

By the end of the touma—
ment, Two Dead Guys had com-
piled a record of 2 wins and 4
losses, more than respectable for
a new team that represents a
school of only 2000 students.

Two Dead Guys, named in
honor of our university’s dual
namesakes, was pulled together
in the fall of 2002 by Chris Jordan

(C
We are one of the

few avenues the
‘ school has to compete
athletically with big

D1 state schools.”
ToM HUNT

(’03) and a group of students
who had played pick—up Ultimate
for years. Vtrithin a few months,
the team had played in a few tour-
naments, including one at the
University of Florida in
Gainesville, and with a core
group of freshman players, the
team showed promise for the fu-
ture. But last year the team fal-
tered, due to a lack of responsible
leadership and the graduation of
many of the original members.
This year, Two Dead Guys
has rebounded. Thanks to EC
funding and legitimacy under the
new Club Sports program, the

SPORTS
W&L’s ultimate team

takes on the nation ’s best
W&L’s Two Dead Guys almost topples ACC powerhouse

 

team has set a strong foundation
and looks to represent W&L
against other colleges far into the
future, while hopefully gaining
some respect from fellow students
and from the university in gen-
era].

“The W&L community at
large probably doesn’t even
know we exist,” Smith claims.
“Most people still consider Ulti-
mate a sport for pot-smoking hip-

pies. In reality, it’s probably the .

fastest-growing competitive col-
lege sport in the country.”

Tom Hunt (’06) stresses that
Ultimate at W&L is more than
just a spring intramural sport:
“We are one of the few avenues
the school has to compete ath-
letically' with big D1 state
schools. This also helps to
spread the W&L name to people
who otherwise might not know
the school exists.”

For now, the co—ed team in-
cludes both law and undergrad
students and has members from
several Greek organizations and
a handful of freshman. Smith

stresses that new players are al-
ways welcome, regardless of skill
level.

Two Dead Guys plans to at-
tend tournaments year round, of-
fering plenty more opportunities
to beat those big D1 schools. “At
the Wolfpack, we clobbered a
team from Duke. It might not
quite compare to beating a Duke

team in basketball, but coming A

from W&L, we’re certainly not
complaining. It feels good to beat
the bigger schools, and hope-
fully we’ll be doing a lot more of
that in the future.” '

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004

H Sm tALr NG—TUM PHI

GET THE BALL! Seniorjohn Barnwell and Guilford players converge on the ball.

Football tallies another win

Generals take down Guilford and improve to 3-1 in ODAC play

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

Thanks to a shut out first
half, and an action packed sec-
ond, the Washington and Lee
football team tallied another win
on Saturday against Guilford.

The Generals jumped out to
an early 14-0 lead thanks to a 1
yard touchdown run by fullback
Ryan Sullivan, followed by a 17
yard touchdown reception by
Garrett LeRose in the first half.
The Marlins came out running
in the second half and were
moving the ball well until a
fumble gave it back to the Gen-

erals in good field position.
They capitalized on a touch-
down run by Quarterback Greg
T‘weardy, but failed in the point
after.

Guilford came right back
with a 7 yard touchdown on
fourth down to get on the board.
But on the ensuing kickoff,
Colton Ward took it 86 yards to
the house in an answer that si-
lenced the Marlins. The Gener-
als rolled on the rest of the game
with ease as they went on to win
41-14.

Offensively, Ward led the
team with 203 all purpose yards
and 2 touchdowns. Tweardy

passed for 192 yards on 17
completions and 26 attempts.

On the defense side of the
ball, Lloyd Wilson counted 9 tack-
les and one sack.

The Generals were able to get
the crowd in the game, and many
fans were chanting Hiesman
whenever Ward touched the ball.
While the Hiesman Trophy may
be out of reach, Ward is leading
the team to a successful team.

With the win Washington
and Lee improves to 3-1 in
ODAC play, while Guilford falls
to 0-3, and 0-7 overall.

Next week, the Generals head
to Bridgewater for a 1:00 contest.

   
   
    
  
   
   
    
  

,Agaimt'Il*'ausyIvania
_ :_an(iD_ePaow(10l2_3)  
 Washingtonanti Lee‘:1ieu’s

‘ openedtheir 2004~(}5 seasons
against  gTrans'y}vania H and
Defauw in Lexington, Ky.,jon
Saturday’ afternoon. :;’i'he men’s
team defeated. Transylvania,
.14-3.5n~_61A.5, and Defauw, 127/.77,

while  the women beat
_ Transylvania‘, 3 12-23 .;and felt to

DePauw,90-115. ,  -A

‘ and women’s swimming  I

A  W&L  ‘ W&LVoI{eybaH Downs   

and Malymouxit, 3-0 (10223)

The Washington and Lee volley-. ,fVirgi,13i.a
ball team improved its Wintting  ‘ if " A If 
streak to it School-record.v1"77‘-7'
straight matches with a pair of 3-0 *
wins on Saturday afternoon’a£".‘VMar1ins"past-Wash gt
Mazymount University. The Get? 2
erais (22-4) defeated Messiah, 30‘-..  ‘
14; 30.23, 30-22, before downirrgf
the host Saints, 30-20, 30-34, 30:  :

17» .  

  

    
 
 

   

; ‘, 3-i1.,-in”(}_

 

the‘W&L stsssaezag;

 

. .a,' '$’9§h¢m¢=%ii.:—

F

  ysrreby     .     .B R I  F  Q -

yW&LGolfI..eadsR-MC
1'-fed Keiler Invitational (10/23)
 W&L golfteam ﬁredan open-
Iing, .ro_an¢. 297 I to lead the
 ‘ " i§an£ioiph~Macon Ted Keiier In-
vitational which is being held at
  the Hunting Ijiawir Golf Club‘ in
_ _ (‘_ilenAl3en, vs The Generaisieadl
action on.A,S,ata:Fda3t,_éf£emoi)n ‘at;,Bridgewa£er by four strokes and '
,4,    being pacedlbysophomore .
-  ;31§{I‘at£N':c1;§es'(CoIu:11bia,S;CJA.C.
V — . Flora) who ﬁred a 73. Final round
. ;f . action continues Sunday morn-V - ‘

W&L Wometfs Soccer Fails
to Lynchburg, 1-6 (10120)
Sophomore Catherine Adams

scored at the 79:04 mark to lift

Lynchburg to a‘ 1-0 win over
Washington and Lee in women’s
soccer action on Wednesday af-
ternoon’ in Lynchburg, Va.

W&L Cross country’
CompetesatGettysburg
Invitational (10/16)

The Washingtoniand Lee men’s
and wotnenfs cross country
teams were in action on Satur-
day at the Gettysburg Invita-
tional. The W&L men placed
fourth of 17 teams, while the
women finished sixth of 15
squads.

 

 Career Senricesr liar
, ﬁetooer 22*“.

Like to write sports? Contact
ruIep@wIu.edu

(yes, free) fundraisi

CampusFundraise
Fundraiser, (888)

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus
4 hours of your group's time PLUS our‘ free

$1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you
schedule your non-sales fundraiser with

www.campusfundr'aiser'.com

ng solutions EQUALS

r. Contact Campus
923-3238, or visit

 

is Callin
Hc>wf*"  

T'lmadsrmt13recrl'a

' simmer!

lltetéms 
with your applitiatlczm. Apply miirae by
cat. 22 for an {Kl-'rCZ3ml3l.1S interview

. arid you we oeova"seasby;!1ax¥

Thursday,  27

    

Appiy saline at
peacecorp,<;.,gos and
ssrzmae 3 Eduthpgrs _-
interview through

E Peace Corps interviews at W&L

  

 ;
For mom mm, oomavtzt ;
distort mm 1
tooorszusso reads 3

 

   

 

  
 

’li‘.HE- Ri%.@i PHi&

Ln:

ExiiLYFm/Aims
ARlS&LlI~EEDlIOR

mm m

PAGE 7

Drama, suspense make seeing Swimming Pool worthwhile

In memory of summer, and since it’s getting so cold
here so fast, my roommates and I rented director
Francois Ozon’s suspenseful drama Swimming Pool.
Released earlier this spring, Swimming Pool has one
of the most unique and shocking endings of any movie
I have ever seen. It makes you feel really clever once
you figure out what has been going on, although, ad-
mittedly, you might need help sorting

are male, it is definitely worth your while to see this
movie. It’s centered around a swimming pool, come on.
Girls, she is an inspiration to go to the gym. An up-and-
coming actress who performed in two films in competi-
tion at the 2003 Cannes festival, she is absolutely gor-
geous and smart. She gives a role that could easily be
written off as “the slut” part warmth and depth. That’s
a tough thing to do, especially in this

things out the first time through. I
recommend watching it with a friend
who is particularly good at thinking

BEYOND HOLLYWOOD
ELYSE MOODY

film.
3) Its consistent and fascinating
use of motifs. Look for the color red,

abstractly. I don’t mean to say that
it’s not worth watching because it is confusing, but to
suggest strongly that you see it because it is so cre-
ative. I guess you’ll just have to watch it to see what
I mean.

If my description of the confusion that will inevi-
tably hit you at the end of the movie made you a little
wary of renting it, let me describe the parts of the movie
that make it worth seeing.

1) Charlotte Rampling’s hysterically quintessential
British character, the writer Sarah Morton. She is so
anal and so uptight that it made us laugh, even in the
really serious scenes. I think this is purposeful; parts
of the movie can be pretty dark. Her costumes are stun-
ning; for half of the movie, she either looks like she’s
ready to head off on a safari or back to the 18”‘ century
(her choice of nightgown is particularly funny——-she
looks like Mr. Scrooge in A Christmas Carol).

2) French actress Ludivine Sagnier, “Julie.” If you

the use of mirrors, and the consump-
tion of alcohol, etc. throughout the film for clues.

4). The haunting theme music. It will stay in your
head for hours, and it is really creepy.

5) It gives the term “writer’s block” a whole new
meaning, and offers a completely new and interesting
solution on what to do if you find yourself stuck in a
situation.

Swimming Pool is set in France, the cinematography
is beautiful and innovative, and the actors are brilliant.
Plus, it combines drama, suspense, and even a murder
mystery vibe.

As I have said, the ending is amazing, and it will '

leave you feeling considerably smarter than you did be-
fore you watched it. See it, it’s worth it, I promise. Let
me know what you think of the ending. Swimming Pool
is available online, at Blockbuster, or through special
order at the University Bookstore. See trade book man-
ager K.C. Schaefer for details.

One—man—band Keller Williams performs Saturday in the pavillion

This coming Saturday, October 30”‘, the
Washington and Lee GAB will welcome alter-

witnessed a concert unlike any other. The
Fredericksburg, Virginia native has released

native guitarist, mu1ti—instru—
mentalist, and singer/
songwriter Keller Williams to
Lexington for Kellerween:
An Evening with Keller Will-

GET CRUNK!
BLAIR CRUNK

ten albums (including a
brand new double—disc
live album entitled
“Stage”) in ten years,

iams. The concert will take place at the Wash-
ington and Lee Pavilion at 10 p.m., doors
opening at 9. Kellerween will mark the sec-
ond time Williams has visited beautiful Lex-
ington, Virginia in as many years. In Septem-
ber of 2003, many W&L students enjoyed Wil-
liams’ music at the Theater at Lime Kiln and

and promises to play
much of his recorded music in addition to
new songs and improvs on Saturday
evening.

Perhaps the most unique thing about a
Keller Williams concert (aside from the fact
that he is always barefoot) is that he does
not have a band. If you get to the show early

enough on Saturday, I would imagine that
you will see several instruments and stations
on the stage. It will appear that Williams has
a dynamic band playing a variety of different
instruments.

Don’t be fooled. Keller Williams is his
own one-man band. No, he doesn’t just play
his acoustic guitar all night. And yes, it will
get quite loud in the Pavilion. Using tech-
niques that are revolutionary in many re-
spects, Williams will dub instrumental riffs
into an equalizer and the riff will repeat sev-
eral times even while he is playing another
instrument. In addition, don’t be surprised

if he uses his vocal chords as an instrument
rather than to sing. This concert absolutely
cannot be missed — especially at such a small
venue. I don’t care what parties are going
on that night — Keller Williams is a must-see.

Tickets for Kellerween are on sale this
week in the Commons - $10 for W&L stu-
dents, $20 non—W&L. Come out and enjoy
the show — it promises to be phenomenal.
For more information on Keller Williams, visit
http2//www.kellerwi1liams.net or pick-up his
new live album, “Stage.” If you’re not famil-
iar with Williams, you should be — and
Kellerween is a perfect time to discover him.

W&L Bookstore Presents...
Student Book of the Week
A weekly Feattre of the Bookstore and the Ring-Tun PH

TH: Meek:

 
 

'urd Ferguson and the Sausage Party:
An Uncensored Guide to College Slang

- Would you rather be a Wedge or an Old Shoe?

- Does the Kelvin Club have anything to do with
Taking the Kids to the Pool?

U|"Il"I in Tun-I‘ Can-uienn and i..u|-nu ie ha. -:2! 4.: Can:-an

,....,

Reprinted from the October
1974 Ring— tum Phi

3.

Are you an alcoholic?

In order to determine whether a person has fallen
from social drinking into an abyss of sin and degra-
it is well to check over a list of test
questions which we provide here:

dation,

l. Do you require a drink the morning afterm(use

your imagination)?
2. Do

to a "sweet date”?
3. Do
4. Do
5. Is

crave a drink?

6. Do you get inner shakes unless you continue
drinking?

7. Do you get outer shakes when you continue drink
ing?

8. Does drinking cause you bodily complaints?

9. Has drinking made you more impulsive?

10. Has your sexual potency suffered since drinking?
11. Do you turn to an inferior environment since

drinking?

12. Is drinking clouding your reputation or debasing

your good name?

13. Is drinking disturbing the harmony of your life?
l4. Is drinking creating a finer harmony in your

life?

15. Have you ever had a complete loss of memory while

or after drinking?

16. Have you ever been banned from a girls’

campus? If so, has
program?

If you have answered
tions,

”yes ” to any two,
alcoholic. If you have answered
more, you are definitely an alcoholic.

DRY UP FAST AND BEAT THE

you drink more with a

you lose time from booking due to drinking?
you crave a drink at a definite time daily?
there any time of the day that you do not

this happened repeatedly?
17. Has drinking reduced the effectiveness of your

ll-yes ll
you may be an alcoholic.

to any one of these ques-

the chances are that _you are an

i”rank date” as opposed

school

If you have answered

”yes” to three or

RUSH!!!

PAGE 8

THE

POTATO Mm
MARSHAIL RULE

 

There was a time when I was smart. This time was
long ago, when I was still in training pants and riding
training wheels. I was smart then.

But then something changed. It happened when I was
five years old. My parents told me about this new and
exciting place called kindergarten. They said I would
learn things like the alphabet. I wasn’t sure about it at
first. I mean c’mon I was living the life. My day con-
sisted of sleeping in as late as I wanted, watching the
Smurfs and Captain Planet on TV, and playing with my
Hot Wheels and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles all day
long. Every meal was provided for me. Ifl wanted a
sandwich, I snap my fingers, and it would appear on a
little pink plate in an instant.

I was living the life, and my parents convinced me
to give it all up by going to school. They said it would
only be half of the day. That didn’t seem too bad to me.
I could go to school for a few hours, mac on some new
girls by showing them my new Huffy, and then get back
in time for some running through the sprinklers. But my
parents were not the cool parents, mine were the evil
ones. Mine made me to go the morning session of kin-
dergarten.

I kept saying, “Yo, madre, all the hotties are in the
afternoon session. Think about it, a few extra hours of
sleeping in before you have to take me to school. I
know you could use it.” But try as I may, she didn’t
bite, sticking me with a desperate need for naptime, and
a classroom full of 5 year old dogs.

The teacher walked in the first day and said let’s play
games. I was skeptical at first, but I figured I’d give it a
shot. The game was telephone, and my goal was to mess

  
  

’ﬁE"H.lT~L l)il:‘.\.?{.'.3»—~’l"éjT.\-‘I l3l~£E

AST ORD

PHOTO COURTESY 3DSRC.COM
POTATO MAN’s FUTURE PET. We have to wonder if Marshall will train

his pets, like his children, to use nun chucks.

up the sentence in the worst ways I could. At least that’s
what I thought the idea of the game was. The teacher
would start and whisper in the first little boy’s ear a sen-
tence. It goes around the circle, until it gets to the last
person who says what they heard. By the time it got to
me it was something like, “You are all beautiful people.”
After I had passed it, it became “Jenny’s mom smells like
poo poo.” I win. I changed it the most. I asked the
teacher what I got for winning, and I guess it was a va-
cation to the principles office.

The days only got worse. The alphabet, I came to

  

EMILYEDWARDS
ARTS&LlFEEDl’IOR
EMAIL-EDwARusa@winn)U

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2004

  ABC’s, other academic pursuits useless to Potato Man

realize was extremely overrated. We never learned any-
thing important or that I was interested in like how to
use nun chucks. Then we started to learn how to read,
which was the dumbest thing I have ever done. Once
you learn to read, you are expected to do things for your-
self.

The bedtime story at home goes away. And instead
the parents sit there and make you read to them. I don’t
want to read it I want to cuddle with Teddy and listen. I
mean come on, Ijust worked for four hours today at kin-
dergarten, and I want to come home to a warm meal and go
to bed, not more work. Over the next few years, I had to
do more for myself. By second grade I was making my
own sandwiches. Now that is just wrong. Then the teach-
ers started giving tests and assigning homework. I did
not like where this was heading.

High school came and kindergarten felt like a dis-
tant memory. The SAT, ACT, AP tests all came and went
adding more stress to my ever busy life. With every
new thing I learned, I forgot something I used to know.
I now know how to use the Pythagorean Theorem, but
can’t remember why Shredder hated the Rat in Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles. I can’t even remember the rat’s
name, which is just sad.

It hit rock bottom just last week, when my week of
hell came. Four midterms, a paper, and a few 3 page
essays. And to make it interesting a few infirmary vis-
its and a hospital visit for a bad case of poison ivy.
And for the first time in my life, I realized that school
and knowledge has not made me happier, but has in-
stead prevented me from learning things that truly mat-
ter.

That’s why when I get out of school, get a boring
job, and a more boring family; I am not letting my kid go
to kindergarten. He will stay home, eat for free, and
learn how to use nun chucks. Cause in the real world a
good set of nun chucks is more useful then the
Pythagorean Theorem any day.

Credit Cards ruin Christmas for Kristine

Throughout most of my life I practiced frugality. (My bills and silver coins “made the world go round”), the roundings of Nordstrom’s. I was surrounded on all sides.

mom, however, calling it like she saw it, called me a cheap-
skate.) My tendency to be a tad stingy, was not, however,
my fault: I inherited my dad’s shrewd fi-

nancial sense. Watching every penny THE WK ANDTQEEASE  count. I think
and dime comes as second nature when that the Sur-
you are the daughter of an accountant— KRISTINE EARLY geon General

someone who spends sixty hours a week
helping others save a nickel (OK....quite a few nickels).
Somehow my mathematically inept brain becomes alive as
soon as dollar signs are added to an equation.

Let’s put this into perspective. When I go grocery
shopping, I automatically start calculating the price for
ounce of each box of ce-
real and each can of Spa-
ghetti-o’s. I’m not a nerd
(well, OK, maybe I am,
but probably for differ-
ent reasons), Ijust can’t
help it. My eyes are im-
mediately drawn to the
price tag.

Ever since I received
my first allowance, I,
Kristine, the human cal-
culator (quite
unreliable...might need
new batteries), made a
pledge never to be taken
in by the corporate big-
wigs. No, not me. General
Mills couldn’t slip by 42

. oz. at six cents apiece

when 54 oz. at three cents apiece were to be had.
And then came the credit card. For those of you stuck
in the dark ages (that time not so long ago when dollar

 

credit card is a piece of plastic
specifically designed to empty
your bank ac-

should place
a prominent warning on all the
Visas, Discovers, and
MasterCards, something like:
“Warning: This product is dan-
gerous to your financial
wellbeing. Use of this prod-
uct may lead to bank-
ruptcy, foreclosure, or ex-
treme parental anger and
frustration.”

When I first received my credit card, it was
for “emergency” use only. In other words, I was only
allowed to “swipe it home” if a) my car died on a coun-
try road and I needed someone to tow it home or b) I
saw a really, really, really, really cute pair of pants at
the mall that fit just right.

As I built up good credit, my parents became
slightly more lenient. Thebills stayed relatively within
reason, and except for a few minor disagreements on
what qualified as “really, really, really, really” cute,
there were never any problems. But then again, I had
never been on a shopping spree in D.C.

I would like to think that I would never have spent
$70 on a polo shirt ifI would have needed to part with
three beautiful, crisp twenty dollar bills and one
Alexander Hamilton. Never in my life did I expect to spend
money so superfluously. But I never expected a face-down.

It was me, alone in the world, against the posh sur-

 

Designer dresses stood on
guard, lined up with extreme
precision. North Face was
posed to attack my wallet. No
matter how hard I tried, I was
fighting a losing battle. There
is only one thing a defense-
less card—bearer can do when
faced with such opposition-
wave the clerk down and say
“ring it up.”

Having visited three malls
in one weekend, I quivered in
fear as I added the receipt to-
tals together.

I experienced almost a per-
verse sort of excitement as the
numbers climbed higher and higher. Down the drain went
every dollar I’d saved at . A 
the check-out line, every ' \
quarter tucked diligently
away.

When I called my
parents to break the
news, I think I sent them
into a state of shock. Nei-
ther of them was too up-
set, but I am not expect-
ing to find much under
the Christmas tree. So for
now, I am tucking that le-
thal piece of plastic away.
And if you spill anything
on my polo, well, you bet-
ter watch out!

 

“is

 

Q Earl Edwards is my hero.

Q FYI: Chi Psis don’t put out.

Q From the same person: Why won’t anyone give
it up to me?

Q Margaret, you’ve won the election already, stop
campaigning!

Q hey mary, you’re quite hot....(chandelier guy)

Q “NO! IT’S OUR PIZZA! We saw the Domino’s
man first...”

Q As said by an actual freshman over Reading
Days: “Whoa! Whoever made hills was
DEFINATELY not drunk!”

Q To the freshman girl who wore the Something
Corporate t shirt the other day: I love you.

Q The girls at Raincor are looking for some boy-
friends. Candidates must have pulse and toler-
ance for extremely loud noises.

Q Will the gentlemen of W&L please refrain from
hocking their loogeys ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS?
There’s a wide world of lawns and ﬂower beds out
there.

Q Bruno is the hottest Kappa Sig. I would skip
class to hook up with him anyday.

Q Coleman you’re one lucky SOB. Yeah you know
what I’m talking about.

Q If that guy tries to talk to us, we’re lesbians
AND we have boyfriends....

Q On a scale of 1 to 10, one notable editor's quick
hit contributions are really good.

Q Why has the Commons been shaking and shiv-
ering lately? Shouldn’t a brand new building be,
oh, stable?

Q Putting Honor System guilt into a campus no-
tice about a missing belonging will not get it back
to you any faster.

Q God bless girls who kiss sober drivers when
thanking them. You make the night endurable.

Q Chaucer died today in history. How sad.

Q Catholic Boys in speedos in the pool this Sat-
urday at 2 pm. YES!

Q Newsflash to KA: eating hot dogs is not urban.
Neither is muscular dystrophy. So why the thugs
on the T shirts?

Q Whoever tore up an edition of Una Vox and left
it as a gift for Gaines suite 342 should have at
least left a name along with their present.

Q Thanks, Groupwise, for losing two days’ worth
of my email! ! Everyone was perfectly understand-
ing and I didn’t want to deal with it anyway!

Q Today is a sad day in history for BoSox fans.
The NY Mets defeated the Red Soxs in game six
of the World Series to go on and win the Series
two days later.

Q Happy 60th birthday to James Carville.

Q A certain well dressed junior started the ga-
loshes trend last year.

Q Celebrate Carbs! Today is World Pasta Day in
NYC.

Q Way to go Hardees! I’ll buy anything a model
on a mechanical bull is promoting.

Q I wanna be the girl on the mechanical bull.

Q Greeks understand responsibility. period.

Q The help desk has an online wait list -— who knew?

Q If the SAO through a party where I could get
wasted, I’d go.

Q I love Corbin Blackford.

Q NASCAR is awesome. Any elitist who says they
don’t like it clearly hasn’t watched it.

Q Way to go Lindsay Hagerman on winning the
national singles tournament.

Q Just because I’m a legacy doesn’t mean I’m
stuped.

Q I wish Arnold could be President. We should
change the law.

Q My brain hurts.

Q Watch out VMI rat-ship, Dean Watkins is com-
ing!

Q Why do srats take themselves so seriously? It’s
not like you do anything good.

Q I’m hungry, the co—op needs to open before 1
p.m. on Sundays.

Q Thou shalt not covet.

Q Email your anonymous quick hitsand crazy Hal-
loween stories to phi@wlu.edu

 

