-A-.~.-.\~.-.  ..a-.u—.m. :. .1 »«r..,-»- - :22“ v - - .. .  -.  ».v— ..- ~—.-. 1-.  -.,...   --_;, -- I ..  », — .   —- . »,-.. .- -» v , V —.

7'ra*."rA-re h .

 

.;. e 373. 755
*‘R552 ,
'  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
THE RING=TUM PHI.

BY TH_E STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897

47 26 -
MONDAY, MARCH 28,2005 voLuMEgaII,NuMBEn2€ _

HOT TICKET

Acting out

Opening night has come and gone
and the One Acts have proved to be a
raving success. But you haven’t
missed your chance to catch a show
in the Johnson theater! Come
Monday and Wednesday, March 28
and 29. at 8:00 p.m. and see “The
Night No One Died,” “The Bone
Violin,” and “Porcelain and Pink.”
Or show for an outrageous night on
Tuesday, March 29, at 9:00 p.m. and
watch “Bunnies,” “American
Tropical,” and “Intervention.”

Focking hilarious

Ready for a laugh? “Meet the
Fockers” will run in the Commons
theater at 7 p.m. on Mon. March 28,
and at 9:30 p.m. on Tues. March 29
and Thurs. March 31.

 

WHAT’S INSIDE P

Phi Phizzles

Notice some sarcasm and lies in this
week’s news? lt’s that time of year
where we include a special feature
section devoted to April Fool’s Day.
We took our name this year from a
1923 Calyx reference to the Phi,
calling us The Ring—Tum Phizzle.
Just remember, it’s all in good fun!
President Burish. Dean Watkins, Burr
Datz, and all of our hundreds of
lovely vice presidents, please don't
sue for libel! See page 3-4.

SIMPLE LIFE

Don ’t let exam week sneak up on
you! Follow our simple tips so you
can make arr easy getaway the
minute your last exam is over

Stock up on blue books if you’ll
need them for exams. You’ll have
unneeded stress ‘if you’re running like
a maniac to the bookstore in the last
three minutes before your politics
exam.

Do laundry. You don’t want to have
to worry about making sure you have
enough clean clothes in the middle of
stressful ﬁnals.

Refrigerator‘ getting low? Time to
restock on good healthy brain foods
before things get more hectic! If
you’re hungry and running out the
door, you can grab an energy bar and
an orange juice, and you’ll be good
to go.

Pack light. Make your packing list
way ahead of time if you’re heading
out so you can just throw things in
the suitcase and haul it when your
last exam is over. And be sure to
double-check the weather conditions
where you’re going so some
unexpected cold front doesn’t ruin
your fun.

Conﬁrm your travel details. Check-
with your ride to the airport, get
online and make sure you have a
ﬂight reservation and seat
assignment, call the hotel in Destin
and make sure you do indeed have
that room with a view of the beach
under your name.

Prep your room. Take out the trash,
make babysitting arrangements for
your goldﬁsh, wash the dishes.

Road trip! Gas up the car, get oil
checked, and clean out the trunk
because you’re about to attempt the
impossible: packing your suitcase
and those of your three best friends
in that tiny little space.

Stay healthy! Keep those pockets
full of Halls Defense supplement
drops with Vitamin C. The last thing
you need is to be sick for exams.

Softer lines in store for trident 

By Katherine Shell
ASSIST ANT NEWS EDITOR

January’s Strategic Planning report
stated that one of the University’s goals
would be to reevaluate the trident as a
symbol and look into the possibility of
altering the symbol to avoid
misrepresenting what the trident stands for.
Tim Kolly, Vice President of Public Affairs
and Communication, said that this is a
response to numerous people feeling that
the trident “looked harsh, looked ominous,
or reminded them of the swastika.”

The trident was created in the early
1900s by a student, and later adopted by
the University as a symbol. Today, the
trident remains recognizable as a symbol
of the W&L community, a symbol not
changed for over seventy—five years.
However, Kolly said that he felt the symbol
would have originally been created
differently had the 1930s been a question.
“People have commented on it for as least

“We create traditions all the time. ”

—- TIM KOLLY, VICE PRESIDENT FOR PUBLIC AFFAIRS

as long as I have been here,” said Kolly,
who has been part of the W&L
Communications department for eight
months. Though the controversy
surrounding the trident is usually limited
to people who do not know the history of
the symbol or W&L, it is clear that the
University is concerned about outsider
perceptions of W&L’s symbols.

“If we’re getting substantial
feedback,” said Kolly,.the University
should look into what the trident
represents to the public.

However. though looking into
changing the trident is a possibility in the
near future, the time-honored symbol will
remain part of the school. “Nobody is
suggesting that we replace it. People like

the trident as a symbol. Suggestions have
been to soften the lines of it,” said Kolly.

Changes could possibly include
straightening the lines of the prongs to
separate from the Nazi swastika. The
trident will remain no matter the outcome
of the task force’s reports, but may no
longer be recognizable as the past trident.

Should W&L students be concerned
that one of W&L’s favored traditions may
be sinking into the past?

No, said Kolly, “we create traditions
all the time.”

Students can look forward to a
modernized trident to replace the one that
has been used since the early twentieth

century.
However, Kolly also added that

“nothing has been decided.” Students and
the W&L community are invited to share

their opinions about the trident and the . ' L

other issues up for discussing in the
Strategic Planning sessions continuing
through the summer. There is an online
drop—box that provides questions with
answer space. It does not, however, leave
room for speciﬁc ideas that the contributor
feels needs to be focused on. If a student
or faculty member has opinions that do
not fit into the space available online,
please contact members of the individual
task forces.

Kolly stated that it is “important for
students to weigh in and give our
opinions,” and students should share those
with the task forces during the current
comment period, which will last until
summer.

For more information, students and
faculty should feel free to email Provost

‘Williams at williamsh@wlu.edu or Tim

Kolly at kollyt@wlu.edu.

W&L im

By Chris Laudemman

EDITOR-|N—CHIEF

The search for the new Dean of the
College is complete and the new dean,
believing the university is in “very good
shape”-, does not feel the need to “shake
things up.”

Washington and Lee hired Hank
Dobin, Associate Dean of the College at
Princeton, to fill the post currently held
by Interim Dean Jeanine Stewart last
week.

Dobin said the biggest challenge to
coming to a new institution is
understanding the culture.

“You really have to go in with the
expectation you have a lot to learn; that’s
the key challenge,” Dobin said.

Provost Thomas Williams said that
the applicant pool was very strong and the
search committee was “comparing
strengths to strengths.”

Dobin began his teaching career at
University of Maryland—College Park
after graduating from Stanford. He
taught for 13 years and was Associate

I Chairman of the English Department,

which had 70 members. He was elected
chair of the College Park Senate and two
years later he became the Associate Dean
of the College at Princeton. He has
served in that capacity for the last nine
years.

Williams, who had the ﬁnal call in
who was hired, said that Dobin brought
signiﬁcant administrative skills with an
undergraduate emphasis to the table.
While at Princeton, he structured General
Education requirements, ran the
undergraduate writing program and
freshman seminar program, guided
Princeton through its reaccredidation
process, and was an award winning
teacher.

Dobin said he ended up at Princeton

because of the attention they show
undergraduates combined with the
strengths of large research university.

“I wanted to be at a school where
everyone agreed undergraduate education
is the top priority,” said Dobin. “W&L is
among the best and I immediately
jumped.”

Dobin acknowledged that there is
much planning occurring on campus. He
said that he needs to ﬁnd his place, but to
do that he needs to sit back, listen, and
learn much in the beginning.

“[Dobin] is wise enough to know
that W&L is different from Princeton,”
Williams said.

His ideas, “in very broad terms,”
include working closely with college
faculty to strengthen the breadth and depth
of the curriculum, developing new areas
and strengthening current departments,
and creating new programs for the
freshman year and new interdisciplinary

ports longtime Ivy Dean

programs.

“It would be foolish to be specific
at this point,” Dobin said. “I won’t be shy
once I get to campus and realize how
things are going.” .

While visiting W&L, he did not see
anything that he believed required
immediate change.

That sentiment includes the current
Associate Deans. He said that he liked
them both very much and that if they
wanted to stay, they would be on his staff.

Provost Williams said that both
Associate Deans, Dean Bent and Dean
Mayock, are completing their
appointments. Interim Dean Stewart is a
tenured member of the faculty and can
return to her post in the Psychology
Department.

Dobin said that he would like to
teach as early as his second year in the
English Department. His specialty is
Shakespeare.

Settle wins

major award

By Katherine Shell
ASSIST ANT NEWS EDITOR

On March 17, 2005, Professor
Frank Settle was awarded the Calvin
Giddings Award for Excellence in
Education. Settle will be given the award
at the national meeting of the American
Chemical Society next fall in D.C.

Out of the ﬁfty to sixty thousand
chemists in America, Settle was chosen for
this award based on his continuing
contributions to chemistry in the
classroom and research as a whole.
According to the W&L Press Release,
“With over forty publications to his name,
including the best-selling textbook
“Instrumental Methods of Analysis (6th
edition), numerous awards for both
teaching and research, a record of
classroom innovation and an impressive
roster of former students who are now
respected chemists, Settle exempliﬁes the
qualities looked for in recipients of the 1.
Calvin Giddins Award.” Settle has been a
professor at W&L since 1998, and worked
at VMI for twenty—eight years before that.

The J. Calvin Giddins Award is
given to the person best exemplifying
various qualities, including “authorship of
inﬂuential books or courses; creation and
use of innovative techniques in teaching
analytical chemistry; encouraging
student’s pursuits of professional careers
in chemistry through research, mentorship
or teaching and designing improved lab
equipment,” stated the March 23 Press
Release. At VMI, Settle received three
faculty awards and was selected as an
outstanding faculty by the Virginia
Council of Higher Education. I

According to the Press Release,
Settle’s response to the award was to say
that “one of the most gratifying aspects of
my career has been the opportunity to work
with bright, interested students for 28 years
at VMI and most recently, six years at
W&L. It has been rewarding to follow
their careers in industry, business and
academics.”

 

ASOULFUL VOICE .

KELLV BOSS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

Soulful Sounds heard Tuesday nigncgnefrom Evans Hall where the Harlem Gospel Choir performed.

. 

Law students win mediation competition

Press Release
WASHINGTON 8. LEE

Tim McKeen and Chris Bullard,
both second~year students at Washington

and Lee University’s School of Law, have '

won ﬁrst place in the 2005 American Bar
Association (ABA) Regional Mediation
Competition held at Regent University
School of Law in Virginia Beach, Va., on
Feb. 26-27.

As regional champions, McKeen

and Bullard will go on to represent
Washington and Lee at the ABA National
Mediation Competition on April 13-14 in
Los Angeles. The competition will be held
in conjunction with the armual meeting of
the association’s Section of Dispute
Resolution.

Their win also gives W&L" the
opportunity to host the 2006 regional
competition.

Also representing Washington and
Lee at the regional competition were Brian

Wilberg and Kelly Behre, both third-year .

law students.
The Washington and Lee Mediation
Competition is an ABA Section of Dispute

Resolution-sponsored forum offered to
help develop practical legal skills. The f

competition, in which law students act as
advocates and clients in a mediation
setting, measures how well students model
appropriate preparation for and

representation of a client in mediation, and ._
. provides students valuable experience in

the mediation process.

 

 

 s. l.§é:7‘¢‘&%§.}f—l;N Llttrms
*vAsH!Nmr;:N a LE.-‘E !Jl'\l»’V'E"c-».StT\

Lt“? 3*" 2 . . as

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 2
V

     
 

2 '1'-S0

 

MG\lDAY,MARCl-|28,&

THIS WEEK

TLESDAY, MARC!-I29
lMen’s Tennis at Roanoke 3:00

 Y, MARC!-IN

. -Baseball vs. Bridgewater 3:00

'Men’s LAX vs. RMC 3:30
-Women’s LAX vs. Hollins 4:30

FiAY,APHL8
'Track at Duke TBA
-Riding at Zones TBA

SATURDAY, APRI.9

-Base vs. Lynchburg; 12:00
-Men’s Lax at Roanoke; 1:00
-Women’s Lax at Sweet Briar; 2:00
'Track at Duke; TBA

SPORTS BRIEFS

W&LWomen’sTennisDeteals
Trinity (Texas), 7-2 (325)

The third-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team improved to a
perfect 14-0 with a 7-2 victory over
fifth-ranked Trinity (Texas) at the Fab
Five Tournament on Friday afternoon
in Pomona, Calif.

W&L Men’s Tennis Defeats Mary
Washington, 5-2(3/24)

The 10th-ranked Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team improved to 11-4
on the season with a 5-2 victory over
eighth-ranked Mary Washington on
Thursday afternoon in Fredericksburg,
Va.

W&LBaseballDefeats
Bridgewaler,11-8(3/24)

Junior first baseman Taylor
McConnell (Vestal, N.Y./Vestal)
smacked a three-run double in the
ﬁfth inning to give Washington and
Lee ‘a 7-6 lead en foiite to an"11-8
victory over Bridgewater  ODAC
baseball action on Thursday afternoon
in Bridgewater, Va.

W&L GolfTIes for Fﬂh at Golden
|slehvitational(3l20)

The Washington and Lee golf team
tied for ﬁfth out of 24 teams at the
Golden Isle Invitational in Jekyll
Island, Ga. The Generals fired a 302-
294-303—899 overall and were led
by freshman Steven Spivey
(Martinsville, Va./Martinsville), who
placed third overall with a 69-72-75-
216.

Third Annual University ‘George
Rayfsquashballtoumament '
Roderick Dowling took home men’s
champion by defeating Mike Fisher,
while Rachel Chisolm was able to
defeat Nike Tsiknakis for the women’s
championship.

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop

273 Raphine Road
Raphlne, VA 24472

sm4s522o - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage‘ nestled along the creek

which carries a fabulous selection of basic .
and novelty yams, kits. needles and

accessories. Customer service from start to

ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and

Intemet accessibility made 633!-

Callforworkshowzdassinformation.

Halfway between Lexington and Stauntan
On [-81 / I-64 at exit 205, Rankine 4miles west on
Rome   Road. Located (ma Working
fann that ofers "U-PICA " opp0rIUnlFl€5f0’ fmh
. fruit when in season.

'lhes - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
: 

Women’s ax has good week of p a

BySa'd1Bloom

$\K]7i STAFFWRITER

Three games in one week didn’t
faze the Women’s Lacrosse team.
Currently undefeated in the ODAC
conference, the team has charged the ﬁeld
with an obvious passion for the game and
for victory.

The Generals played a perfect game
Tuesday against Bridgewater, defeating
the ODAC team 18-0, but suffered a
heartbreaking loss to Williams Wednesday
(5-7),

Twelve Generals scored in the game
including Kelly Evans who led the team
with three goals. Mallory Lobisser, Louisa
Feve, and Megan Slosson each also added
two goals.

Amanda Strickler also added three
assists in the game. Six other Generals’
players also tallied an assist.

Junior Kate Lester pulled the
Generals out of a slump to a tied game
shortly before half-time, but Williams
scored with only a little over a minute left

in the half to give Williams a 4-3 lead.

In the second half, Williams pulled
intothe lead, but Lester again narrowed
the gap and put the Generals back in the
game.

Unfortunately scores by freshman
Sarah Adkins and senior Natalya
Hoobchaak were not enough in the end to
put the Generals back in the lead.

Freshman Sarah Tilbor manned the
goal for the Generals, making six saves.
Freshmen additions Tilbor and Christine
Bender have been essential elements to the
Women’s lacrosse force.

Named rookie and scholar of the
week by womenslacrosse.com,. Tilbor has
started as goalie for the Generals and
claimed the best save record in the ODAC.

Bender was named rookie of the
week, having scored three crucial goals to
help defeat rival Franklin and Marshall last
Saturday. Bender is also and is currently
ranked second on the team.

The Generals continue their season
next Wednesday when they take Hollins
on at home.

TAKE ME OUTTO THE BALL GAME

CORBIN BLACKFORD / PHOTO EDITOR

111eGer|eralsbaseballtearnextendeditsreoordto214atta'defeaﬁng

Bridgewaler11-8Thursdayaltemoon. Adam Bullockgotthingsstartedoffwith A

athree-run homerun intheseoond inningtotakethe lead 3-0. Afterlosingthe
early lead Taylor McConne|l’s three-run double regained it in theﬁﬂh inning.
Dave Millerand Soottciosselinkeaohadded RBI singles. Mil|erwent3-5 inthe
batters box,asdidteammateJordanWesley. Freshman leﬂydohn Parker
allowedﬁveearned runsoff10hils insixinnings. Thewin against Bridgewater
oomesalteran extra-inningvictoryoverShenandod1onTueeday. Gosselink
hitagarnevvinning RBI single inthe bottomofthethirteenlh inningtogetthe
win. Gosselinkhit4-6 inthegame,and Mcconnelltalliedthreehitsoffofsixat
bats. Arematohwilh Bridgewaterissetforwednosday, Marchy30athome.

 

A $450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free (yes,
free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 0OO—$2, 000 in
earnings for your group. Call 'I'C)DAY for a $450 bonus
when you schedule your non—sales fundraiser with
CarnpusFundraiser. Contact Can*pusFundraiser, (888)

JON ROGERS I STAFF PHOTOGR ' ER

TheWoma1’slaxtearnhopestokeepﬂ'eMnninggdngmmeer1dofﬂ1eseasorI

Tennis teams still rolling

Bymashunue .
ll/lANM§\G$lU"l

1. Lindsay Hagerman (W&L) def.
Jackie Mendillo (TU) 6-2, 6-0

2. Emily Applegate (W&L) def.

. Alicia Hunt (TU) 6-2, 4-6, 6-3

3. Ginny Wortham (W&L) def.
Laura Steinmetz (TU) 3-6, 7-5, 6-4

4. Kristen McClung (W&L) def.
Megan Suarez (TU) 6-1, 6-0

5. Leah Weston (W &L) def. Christy
Austin (TU) 4-6, 6-0, 7-5

6. Katie Kingsbury (W&L) def.
Leigh Pankonien (TU) 6-1, 6-1

The Men’s and Women’s tennis
teams continued to roll last week with two
wins.

The tenth ranked Men’s team
defeated eighth ranked Mary Washington
5-2 last Thursday, losing only one singles
match.

1. Paul McClure (W&L) def. Paul
Bristow (UMW) 6-1, 6-2

2. Jon Clair (UMW) def. David
Shay (W&L) 2-6, 6-1, 7-5 .

3. Jon Malooly (W&L) def. Matt
Rogers (UMW) 6-3, 7-6

In doubles competition Trinity was
able to win two of the three matches.

1. Christy Austin/Laura Steinmetz
4. Jeff Lusk (W&L) def. Nate (TU) def. Lindsay Hagerman/Ginny
Hathaway (UMW) 6-2, 6-2 Wortham (W &L) 9-8 (7-4)
5. Jordan Eichenberger (W &L) def. 2. Emily Apple gate/Kristen
Jon Pollak (UMW) 6-2, 6-4 McClung (W&L) def. Jackie Mendillol
6. Charles Anderson (W&L) def. Megan Suarez (TU) 8-1
Erik Thorell (UMW) 6-3, 6-1 3. Leigh Pankonien/Alicia Hunt
(TU) def. Lora Farris/Leah Weston (W &L)
Meanwhile, the Women’s team (#3) 8-5
defeated Trinity (Texas, #5) 7-2 winning
all of its singles competitions on Friday

afternoon. remain undefeated at 14-0.

Position Announcement:
Possible Opening for an

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

The Washingtonand Lee Undergraduate Ofﬁce of
Admissions Wishes to announce a possible opening for
an Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities include
extensive recruitment travel, conducting student
interviews and group information sessions, and
evaluating applications. Strong communication skills
and demonstrated organizational abilities are
expected. The successful candidate will be willing and
able to work as part of a highly successful admissions
team, yet will be capable of creative self-direction.
Some evening and weekend work is necessary.
Candidates should be willing to commit to two years
in the position.

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a ‘valid driver’s
license. All interested candidates should submit a
cover letter and resume, including two references, no
later than Friday, April 1st. All materials should be
sent to:

Jonathan Webster

Associate Dean of Admissions

Ofﬁce of Admissions Lexington, VA 24450

92-3-3238 .

1999 Audi A4 lluattro

xu radio. 12 on oliantler. uoodicontlition.
  $11,500. 9alI261-5598.

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS
Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!

www.premier41 1 .com
1 877 SEE POOL

 

With the win, the Generals women I

   

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

No -IIUM PHIZZLE.

BY THE Aﬂi5Ei*€lSl"RA"l'lON ANDHFOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 2002

I School Ends Its Co-  

‘1

Educational Years,

  feminazis take over

The “Good Ole Boy Network” is in jeopardy. What
would Bobby Lee say aboutan all—female campus?

ByKhssyKomeria1

bestlitllelmteeverm

For the last twenty years,
Washington and Lee University has
admitted both male and female students
to its undergraduate liberal arts college.
However, the school was entirely male
during the years prior, from 1749 to 1985.
Since becoming co-ed, the male to female
ratio has finally reached a near-perfect
balance.

Recent statistics on the incoming
class of 2009 conﬁrm this ratio. While
some may think equality between male and
female students has been achieved,
administrators and the board of trustees
realize the women are at a 236-year
disadvantage.

To recompense, they have decided
to stop admitting male students, beginning
with the class of 2010, and allow the
school to convert to an all-female school
through the year 2246.

“We owe this to an entire gender,”
said Philip Norwood, Rector of the Board
of Trustees. “Washington and Lee deﬁnes
itself with honor and integrity. It is
impossible to continue to uphold those
things while ignoring this massive
injustice to the female population.”

The Board has set out several
goals for its women-only period. These
include: taking hundreds of black and
white photos of smiling female students
to hang in buildings on campus,
establishing exclusive, feminine traditions,
and perhaps ﬁnding a matriarch to work
integrally with the school, so that her name
be added to the ofﬁcial name (which was
changed often in the its early years, but

has remained Washington and Lee since
1871).

The “de—coeducationization” of
the University is not anticipated to effect
the quality of education at W & L,
although the effects on campus social life
are inevitable. '

With an al1—female student body, the
school will be able to refurbish all men’s
fraternity houses into sorority houses,
expanding Greek opportunities for new
generations of Generals.

“I’d say it’s a good thing,” said
Kristin Powell, adviser of Panhellenic.
“Ideally, over the next 200-years, W & L
should be able to obtain chapters of each
of the 26 national sororities.”

Current female students also
support the idea.

“V1rginia’s got a bunch of liberal
arts colleges for women. We’ll just be
another one of them, the best of them,”
said freshman Amy Roberson. “I -guess it
will disappoint boys who consider
Washington and Lee in the future, but not
too much.

They can always revel in the all-
male history of the school and nearly every
other school in the country.”

During the time when the school
admits only women, it will still accept, and
expect, donations from all alumni, male

I and female.

A committee has been formed to
strategically plan changes in campus
buildings and programs to better suit the
new, solely female generation, and they
require funding. ,

For more information about the
University’s plans or to make a
contribution, please contact Dean Dawn
Watkins.

 

Greek Bust ClaiI

Ins another Victim

In its quest to‘ rise in the rankings, has the school gone too far?

ByZORBA

neverbeenlrmrrizsd

The university administration took
another giant step towards erasing any
doubt that their ultimate goal is to destroy
the Greek System on the W&L campus.
Despite repeated claims that “we want to
make the system strong” and “we have
no intention in erasing the Greek culture,”
the latest move by those in the rariﬁed
air (apparently all-too—rarified) of
Washington Hall second ﬂoor seems a
direct indication of their true motive.

Gamma of Virginia chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa has been put on the severest
form of social probation: after their tear-
night celebration of two weeks ago, the
chapter will not be allowed to sponsor
any functions, social or otherwise, for the
next twelve months.

“This came out of nowhere,” said
chapter president Brian Richardson. “We
had made our plans for the initiation
evening, then University Catering
stepped in and the next thing I know the
only options for the evening were regular
or de-caf.” “I pressed for reasons,”
indicated Richardson, “and the only reply
I got was something about debauchery at
a similar event at the College of William
and Mary in 1776.”

“It is well known that W&L Phi
Beta Kappas can hold their booze far
better than their colleagues to the east,”
lamented Richardson, “so it is beyond me

ByBIeeN|uray
laaeperessdtrnegunhom

In a not-unforeseen move, the
science—oriented academic
departments seceded from
Washington and Lee University
Saturday, declaring themselves to
constitute a separate and independent
university.

The departments involved-
Physics, Biology, Psychology,
Computer Science, Chemistry,
Geology and Neuroscience—will
remain in the Science Center.

For these departments, the
secession is seen as an escape from
the overbearing presence of
Washington Hall. Science professors
have long condemned irksome
University regulations of semester
credit maximums, hiring autonomy,
and corporal punishment.

President Thomas G. Burish
issued a passionate statement from
Lee House Sunday afternoon,
warning that “a university divided
cannot hope to increase its
endowment.” He went on to say that
he sincerely hoped that the science
center would fully cooperate with the
university’s attempts to make
amends.

Some read the statement as an
honest effort for conciliation from an

administration; others saw it as a clear
threat and a sign of impending
conﬂict.

“I don’t know how they think
they’re going to survive,” said

affable, caring member of the .

how they can clamp down on us for
behavior over which we had no control.”

Other sources, who prefer to
remain anonymous, point to a series of
celebrations far into the night after the
end of the formal ceremonies held
Thursday evening, March 3, involving
numerous new initiates. These events
were reported to have taken place in a
student lounge in the Chemistry
Department, in the reference room in
Leybum Library, and at the Liberty Hall
Ruins. This latter event involved a
variety of small implements — trowels and
paintbrushes, for example — used for
purposes about which it would be unwise
to speculate.

A As a result of each of these
gatherings, several students were taken
to student health by security. Due to the
“safe haven” policy, it was not possible
to learn from officials the nature of the
injuries treated, but a source in a position
to know said that there were a series of
dislocated ﬁngers treated that evening.

“Something about a secret handshake”
said the source.

“This is not good news for Greek
organizations on campus,” said chapter
secretary—treasurer Marcia France. “In
my opinion, we have always behaved in
an exemplary fashion, and this kind of
interference in the privilege of young
adults to create their own social life
suggests a dark side to the current
university trajectory.” “I should have
known something was afoot when we
had to go so long_ without a chapter
house.”

Classics department head and
Professor of Greek Kevin Crotty
indicated “we are keeping a close eye
on this development.” “Should the
severe pressure on Greek organizations
on campus continue, we will be forced
to take drastic action.” Teaching Greek
in translation, or substituting Aramaic
in place of Greek in the curriculum are
among the possibilities under
discussion, indicated Crotty

“It is well known that W&L Phi Beta Kappas
can hold their booze far better than their col-
leagues to the east,so it is beyond me how they
can clamp down on us for behavior over which

we had no control.”
BhIMiu&I'I,PﬂB&KqpaH£hi

Richard Worthington ’07, an Economics
and Management double major. “I
mean, they don’t have a bookstore or a
dining hall or anything.

“On the other hand,” Worthington
mused, “now that the rest of the school
is all-women, they might have an
advantage. I wish someone had sent out
a Campus Notice about that. I mean,
do I have to go to class today?”

All communication is to be cut off
between the science center and the
university. The science departments
will cease using all facilities outside the
science center, and there will be no
correspondence between members of
either group. The only exception will
be LIFE head Jan Kaufman, who has
announced that she will continue her
missionary work of distributing vats of
condoms to students in need
everywhere. '

Estrangement between the
science departments and the liberal arts
departments is nothing new. Science
students have always been somewhat
isolated from the rest of the university,
due to excessive hours spent in the
science library. Many students from
other departments do not quite
understand what goes on there, since the
science students never actually interact
with other parts of the campus.
Misunderstandings often result.

“My roommate was pre—med
freshman year,” said Donna Michaelson
’08, who is thinking of pursuing a
degree in broadcast journalism. “She
was really weird. She would disappear
for like ﬁve hours at a time and be like,
‘I was at class.’ I was like, yeah, right.
Nobody’s in class for that long. She

the science library.

Estrangement between the science depart-
ments and the liberal arts departments is
nothing new. Science students have always
been somewhat isolated from the rest of the
university, due to excessive hours spent in

. 4- _-;__‘_*w .- 7.. “A .; _: _.__;‘._...'_' ._.,n.

-.:.e..-..__. 2. 422-,“ .~...*_.-~-45::-*.-_«-..~:._n.l;-_._-"-- ;:.‘.-.~_.-__ .*;....._- ._.;.. 9—.‘.lﬁlA£:)I(4>.£-u— .;_-.m...._.._

Science Center departments
to secede from ’l‘he,Col1ege

After a breakdown in negotiations, Burish
worries for admissions numbers.

must have been doing drugs or
something.”

But here and there, you see former
science students walking around in
Newcomb, Tucker, or Huntley Hall.
Their numbers are small; their escapes
were difficult. These rare few tell ghastly
tales of oppression, pain, and privation.
Twenty-hour days of studying are
commonplace. Professors have free rein
to make unreasonable demands and give
harsh punishments for mistakes on tests
and quizzes, with no recourse to advisers,
administrators, or caring parents.
Students are often separated for long
periods of time from family and, friends.

Sara Duckworth ’06 is no
exception. Raised in a family of doctors,
Duckworth came toe Washington and Lee
with the intention of preparing for
medical school. But after two years of
hard labor in the stacks of the science
library, she made a break for freedom.

“I never thought I was going to get
out, she confessed. “When I first
stepped into DuPont Hall, I had tears in
my eyes. It seemed too good to be true.”

“I’m just lucky that I’m not one of
the poor kids left behind,” Duckworth
said.

Another reason for the rift may be
the science students’ strange attachment
to their advisers and professors. With
some difficulty, this reporter tracked

n

down one of the elusive bunch to ‘

comment on the science lifestyle.

“We’re all doing fine,” she said,
despite her haggard appearance.
“Professor France loves us. That’s why
she makes us work so hard. It’s for our
own good. Sorry, what? My name? I
don’t remember.”

Meanwhile, tensions build as
students and faculty alike await the
clash of the two colleges.

“Let Burish \ threaten all he
wants,” Dr. Larry Hurd, ‘head of the
Biology Department, said at a Parmly
Hall rally earlier today. “We are
committed to our scientiﬁc heritage and
we will not back down! We’re going
to the Williams School and DuPont and
Robinson and then we're going to
Washington Hall to take back the
school! Yiiiiiaaaaarrrrgh!”

 

- .4. _;.4.;s-‘..«.'a_.;..,....:_‘_.~...

 

 

    Wewannabean Ivy

 VICE Pf€Sl
to-student
ratio now 1:1

Bycbtheunm
I-Et‘El3T‘OFI\Dt-ISONNBE3

Vice Presidents #1760 and #1761
were hired earlier this week allowing
Washington and Lee to finally achieve its
one to one vice president to student ratio.

But the big surprise of the day was
the ﬁght over the Beta and SPE houses.
Provost Thomas Williams armounced that
Peter Prodigy, Vice President for Early
North Dakotan Recruitment, will be living

A in the SPE house while Sam Silla, Vice

President for Fraternity Dining Room
Chair Violations, will be moving into Beta.

“We are very excited and pleased
with our two newest employees,” said
Williams.

Peter Prodigy, age 8, comes to
Washington and Lee from a remote
elementary school in North Dakota. Peter
was hired to figure out how to recruit
students from the only state not
represented at W&L.

“Peter will bring much to the table,”
William Hartog, Dean of Admissions and
Financial Aid, said. “We have been trying
to crack into North Dakota for years.”

But Peter acknowledges that W&L
is going to have a hard time recruiting in
North Dakota.

“It’s going to be a huge challenge,”
Peter said. “We plan on using all kinds of
cool strategies to bring lots of geographic
diversity to the school like pizza parties
for the gifted classes and free trident belts
to students across the state.”

Silla was previously employed by
the Lexington police department where he
wrote parking tickets for a living.

“There are so many ways to get a

violation,” Silla said. “I can’t wait to start
writing up ﬁnes.”

Fraternities who move a chair onto
their porch, into another room, or more
than a foot from where it is supposed to
be will be ﬁned.

“This is an outrage!” Fratty
McFratterson, President of Kappa Epsilon
Gamma said. “How are we supposed to
sit around as a brotherhood and talk? Is
the school going to buy us more chairs for
our porch?”

The school said it cannot afford to
buy more chairs as a result of hiring the
last two Vice Presidents.

“We have drained the most recent
capital campaign and tuition, room, and
board will all be increasing by at least 40
percent per year,” Steve McAllister, Vice
President for Finance, said. “Of course,
these tuition raises are only to keep up with
our peer institutions.”

“Dean Watkins gets Stonewall
Jackson’s house, even the Dean of
Freshman gets a house,” Joe Grasso, Vice
President for Administration said. “Why
can’t Ihave a house?”

Tim Kolly, Vice President of Public
Affairs, echoed Grasso’s comment.

“I have spent months spinning the
Greek news to the alums so that Beta could
not have the support to return to campus,”
Kolly said. “I think I deserve that house
more than anyone.”

The Vice President for University
Advancement Dennis Cross and Associate
Provost George Carras are expected to
duel over who will residence in the Morris
House next week. Admission is free with
student ID. , '

“I have spent months spinning the Greek
news to the alums so that Beta could not
have the support to return to campus. I think
I deserve that house more than anyone.”

TMKOU.Y,VK£ PE$l'|'OFPl.E.K3AH=AFB

 

IF YOU DO THIS, YOU ARE AN IDIOT

 

S  V »t  V 35 at at W ‘tit
is: Him I   fair’
as is  2? . 2.5..
as I 
1 22 as
  ii’? i”, ‘-
as as at 
as L as as as
 

as as at are as ‘its as -at 2*
as as I ' ’ an f:z:“t'.
tsa as as as

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..      

‘  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
 48 Spanish dance 13 1000 bytes
49 bristle 16 battle cry

1 reading placekeeper 51 kind of kiss 17 free—spirit award winner
7 Survival 52 bicycle part 18.shake V

11 little spoon 54 snap 23 plant holder

12 Jen,y,S partner 5 6 rewind 27 misunderstood

14 leftover 57 right on 28 now I know my __s
15 Storyteller 58 famous Matt 30 underappreciated state
16  ﬂower  I10t   [CITY Cl.0th

19 mm 61 shufﬂe 35 clock

20 east wind 62 remote island 36 weather phenom

21 com units 63 entertain 37 Dorothy’s shoe color

v 22 dog noise 39 P331633;

24 h 40 q-tip residue

26 wish 1 pillow home 42 9d°r _

29 car organization 2 finder 43 msamty

31  3 taxi 45 sport  StlCkS

32 not young 4 swingset 46 Italian dessert

33 searching tool 5 growl 47 Fox hit Show

35 president’ 6 metal 50 wh1sﬂ_°

38 with case 7 acoustic 53 °halk1Sh

39 lost 8 not a meter 55 f°1_h°1° folly

41 foot extremity 9 incredulous 56 Chmfs game

44 mr. 10 as well ' 59 yoga mantra

Administration unveils
proposed changes to the
offensive Trident logo

W&L administration

ByLm:lofIheSwords
PES-KJ.LDHAVEE‘lA|<!':Y[E|'

Dean Watkins and President Burish
announced yesterday that they plan to end
the ratline at the Virginia Military Institute.

“We found that the ratline was not
an institution that promoted constructive
dialogue and enduring bonds between
cadets,” said Watkins, “the first year at the
Institute should be about forming healthy
bonds, and we do not feel that forcing 5-
mile, 4 a.m. marches through the snow
facilitates this process.”

The decision was announced
following the presentation of a study by
Kim Tolly, recently hired Vice President
of Coercion of Other Lexington Liberal
Arts Institutions. '

“My investigations at VMI turned
up some very disturbing behavior,” said
Tolly. “New students were made to
exercise repeatedly, and were denied
access to music. It’s absolutely sickening,
and I suspect that many of the poor
individuals who have been exposed to this
treatment will be scarred for life. How

invades the Institute

“We found that the ratline was not an institu-
tion that promoted constructive dialogue and
enduring bonds between cadets”

-DAWNWATKI6,EANGSl'LE1S

 

can new cadets build positive self-
valuation when other cadets habitually
refer to them as rats? It’s like they’re not
even a real class there.”

Part of Tolly’s study recommends a
change in several rat—re1ated terms. For
instance, the term “rats” itself will be
changed to “New Cadets,” while the
infamous, d.ri11—sergeant—like rat—training
group, the Cadre, will become “New Cadet
Educators.”

In the grand strategic plan for the
Institute, Burish plans to replace Breakout,
the strenuous physical activity preceding
the end of the ratline, with Talkout, a time
where the New Cadets are encouraged to
talk about their feelings while sitting on

, “Dare not, ye fools, to question me. 

The

pathetic mortals of VMI will obey or they
will be cast into the 13"‘ level of hell, an
eternity of team-building seminars with

Burr Datz!”

-TIIlﬂ.§-I,W8:l..PilT

 

cushions ‘sipping fruit punch and
munching on Girl Scout cookies.

Additionally, the strategic plan calls
for removing rank from the Institute’s
hierarchy and instead allowing
outstanding Cadets to serve as Residential
Life staff. The most irnpoitant task of the
Residential Life staff will be to ensure
healthy communication and high self-
esteem among Cadets.

“These changes will allow VMI to
let go of its old culture of abuse,” said
Burish. “Our new program will allow
them to focus on building real human
connections.”

Phi editor-in-chief Erin Julius
(gussied up in a pink blouse and a plaid
skirt like the tawdry Catholic schoolgirl
that she is) asked the administrators how
they planned to force the Institute into
compliance with their planned changes.

“Dare not, ye fools, to question me,”
thundered Burish in response. “For 10, I
have a psychology doctorate from the
University of Kansas and have powers
unto a god's! The pathetic mortals of VMI
will obey or they will be cast into the 13*‘

level of hell, an eternity of team-building

seminars with Burr Datz!”
VMI immediately complied. .

 

-.(

 

|IIIG‘DAY,MARG-l28,ZI5

IIDIIIIIIIIS

 

5 OTHERING-TUMPHI

STAFF EDITORIAL

Campus’ secret
societies damage
grounds

Lately crude graffiti has been
appearing throughout our lovely
campus. A new secret society, Gamma
Rho, is following the Cadavers’ lead and
is now blemishing our beautiful campus
with 3rd-grade-style chalk artwork.

It is our understanding that
security is currently investigating the
Cadavers’ last romp through campus,
and have close-up footage of individuals
vandalizing.

Now don’t get us wrong, we love
the concept of secret societies. If the
Cadavers want to dress in black robes
and run around the campus screaming
in high-pitched voices, that is ﬁne with
us. And we thank Cadavers of the past
for donating enough money to build our
illustrious Cadaver Bridge, the longest
concrete suspension bridge in the world.

Cadavers of late, however, have
not improved our school but instead are

- deteriorating its image. And not to

overemphasize the Honor System, but
vandalism is a crime and as such,
members of Washington and Lee’s
student body should not engage is such
behavior. ' .

Preaching about chalk drawings
may seem like a mindless rant, but
Buildings and Grounds cannot remove
the chalk. These ridiculous-looking
semi-permanent drawings cost the
University real dollars in damage.
Honestly, it would be more funny and
less damaging if the Cadavers went
back to leaving paper handouts all over
campus.

And to Gamma Rho: who are
you? what is your point? at least
everyone knows what the Cadavers are
male, pre—med students. for the most
part. Gamma Rho needsbto. explain
itself. ..  . . ~~

.a..~./r’

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson has
ﬁnished sucking up to his profs to give
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0 Election!

Get out there and vote, dammit. You
don’t have to vote for a certain
Opinions editor and author of Ups
and Downs, but let’s actually have a
decent turnout this time, eh?

0Terri Schiavo incident
Parents: make mockery of the courts
before just giving up. Husband:
Extremely poor guardian who’s

probably doing this for wrong reasons.

Congress: Don’t you have anything
better to do?

0 Jesus
Get it? He’s “up.” Hahaha...ahhh,
I’m so going to Hell for that.

QTom Wolfe

The man is just extremely classy.
TWO book signings in the space of
about a month at the ol’ alma mater.

0Black Licorice

I used to hate it, but now my palate
has grown more reﬁned. Also, on a
side note, doesn’t the simple USE of
the word “palate” automatically make
you pretentious?

Osoy Sauce

Does anyone else think it’s overrated?
I mean, I think rice is better
WITHOUT it, to tell you the truth.

Ospam (the e-mail)

I mean, really, you’d think that they’d
have ﬁgured out that I don’t WANT
to reﬁnance at today’s low rates
already.

0 Spam (thefood)

Eggs, tortiHa, grill—cooked Spam.
That, my collegiate friends, is the
height of college dorm cuisine.

0 Last week of classes

So here’s my idea- exams are done
over the last week of class and we cut
three weeks off the school year,
saving us valuable tuition dollars.

A plague o’er everyoneis
house- W&L’s sick year

ByAmeﬁ'Iey

‘II-EBGPCILFE

I think one of the hardest things
about being away from home at college is
when you get sick. Especially when you
are in the phase where you know you’re
sick but you can’t ﬁgure out exactly what’s
wrong with you. I’m the queen of self
diagnosis; I like to go to a website called
ecureme.com where you just type in your
symptoms and it generates a completely
unreliable response.

The internet or my parents are
always my first resource because I like to
be informed and get my mind around
things rather than just going and being
totally surprised with a diagnosis. And let’s
be honest, if you go to the health center
the chances are fairly good that they won‘t
know what’s wrong with you either, even
if they say they do. (I’ve had pretty good
experiences over there, but L’ve. heard
enough stories about rnisdiagnoses to be
on my guard.)

It’s starting to dawn on me that
college is terrible for students’ health.
Honestly, we shouldn’t even be allowed
to go. For starters it cannot be denied that
the lifestyle is very unhealthy at times: too
much drinking, not enough sleep, too
much stress. Multiply by 100 to account
for Washington and Lee’s special stresses
and pressures. Add that little factor that
we are all in communal housing for at least
the first two years. And choosing between
the fried and fried foods that we are served
in d-hall or sorority dining. And then not
only are you much more likely to get mono
and some other infectious diseases than
at any other time of your life,‘ but you are

also less likely to get treatment.

I’ve seen it happen and I’ve
certainly done it myself. You know if you
were at home you would tell your mother
you were sick. She would call and make
you an appointment with the appropriate
doctor (which is huge considering most
college students are too lazy to dial a
phone) and take you out of classes so you
could go. Now, we just hope it will go
away andask everyone we meet what they
think is wrong with us. When it gets
unmanageable or enough people tell you
they think you should “get that checked
out,” you may ﬁnally go to thehealth
center. But personally, I know I’ve started
accumulating a short list of things to ask
my PCP the next thing I’m at home in
Dallas.

So here’s what I’d like to see ,

happen, even though I know I’ll probably
be a giant hypocrite and not do them
myself. People need to get at least seven
or eight hours of sleep a day. Without
enough sleep you cannot function, are in
a bad mood, are so much more likely to
catch the cold that’s going around and in
turn spread it to your friends, and have
ugly circles under your eyes. I thought I’d
add a cosmetic reason just like all of the
effective smoking campaigns nowadays
focus on how you’H smell bad and no one
will want to kiss you. And ask yourself: if
you’re really run down after a long week
of classes, is staying out till 4 am and
getting drunk really the best plan?

And, as simple as it sounds, take
care of yourself when you’re sick. Do a
little intemet research if you want, but
sooner than later go see someone who can
actually say what’s wrong with you.
College is too short to be.sick,a1l the time.

It’s starting to dawn OIT me that college is terrible
for students’ health. Honestly, we shouldn’t
even be allowed to go....the lifestyle is very un-
healthy at times: too much drinking, not enough
sleep, too much stress. Multiply by 100 to ac-
count for Washington & Lee’s special stresses...

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING -TUM PHI.

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

®PY EDITORS

ERIN ELIZABETH JUUUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS

CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
V 

ﬂrelihg-a:nPhisptbisl1edMmdaysdrri1gtteuxiergadatesd'ndyear
atWashhgtmandl.eeUriversity,Le)<hgkx1,\ﬁrg'i'a
TheRng-tun‘ PhﬁsarnenberotThePtbicanons‘ Boardbutisotherwse‘ '


Alsibrrsiorsmustbeemaiedtopl1i@vvlu.eduorirrﬂ'eUriversityCa*IternIal)oxby5p.m.
Fn'daytoappearintheIollc¢vhgvveek’sedtion.
ﬂvliﬁrg-alnﬂiresewesﬂerigwttoedtsttxrissiasbroaitemarrdlmglw.
Leﬂesmdodum1sdonamoessariyreﬂedteq3hbndﬂwFﬁyamPﬁEdkxhlBowd.
Adverﬁsingdoesrx1reﬂedmeophimsofTlieh'rg-alnﬂiorilsstaﬁ.
Thisnewspaperobsewesamentootmdefniﬁmsoflrelandotasoerity.

'I'heFhg-lunF'h'
Un'vetsityCorrrntx‘sFloo'n.341
WashhgtonandLeeLln'verslty

Lex'ngton,Vrrg1'a24450
Telephone: (540)458-4060
Fa)c(540)4584059

' Bnatpti@Mred.:

Procrastination as
deadlines loom, two
Phi writers weigh in
on puttingthings off

BySaaDuckworI1
F1.E=i[1.0<E

As exams near I find it
helpful to think about all the things you
could possibly do to keep from
studying. That’s right I’m talking the
big P, now don’t let your dirty mind go
there, procrastination. The amazing
little word that incorporates the things
that seem important at the time, but in
actuality keep you from doing what
would be more academically correct.

My apartment is currently as
clean as it ever has been. Write a paper
or scrub the kitchen? Once the
procrastination move has been decided
upon it must be rationalized in order
to strikeout guilt. The rationalization
for cleaning would be something like:
I cook in that kitchen and if it isn’t
clean then I could get sick, which in
the future will really keep me from
writing that paper. Checking one’s e-
mail always seems to be at the utmost
importance when there is a word
document with a grand total of a
paragraph on it. I mean there may be
an incredibly important message that
has to be replied to right away. Laundry
is always a fair option when trying to
keep from that biology textbook. See
if you don’t have the proper clothing,
which are of course at the bottom of
the hamper, then you could not possibly
do as well on that test. It’s yoirr lucky
sweater, or what not. Watching the
news or reading the newspaper always
seems to be a legitimate excuse to see
if that nasty paper actually ends up
writing itself. While you maybe up
until 4am it always seems to be a good
idea to be caught up on the world
outside of Big Lex, even if you do only
read the Extra Sectionl Travel and
Leisure. When researching it can seem
extremely important to read other
chapters in the book, because you need
a better feel for what the author is trying
to say. If the book is an anthology and

the chapter is on a completely different
subject than the one you are actually
researching this can be a little trickier.
Of course trying to justify the reason
for doing the procrastinating act can
always be enough of a time stealer to
be worthwhile.

On another note: How do
people really study with a movie on? I
feel like I may have developed ADD
once starting W&L and honestly can’t
handle having a movie playing in the
background. But don’t worry, I’m
going to keep on trying to see if maybe,
this time, it really will work. All things
considered I have enough distracting
noise coming from the drunk people
on the street below my apartment. My
favorites are the kids that just sit under
my window and sing or the guys you
simply can’t scream enough F—Yous
and try to get in a ﬁght. Oh yeah, fun
times. These ladies and gentlemen
have managed to find the prime
procrastination tool: getting drunk
enough to simply not care that there is
work due.tomorrow morning at llam.
It’s always a comfort to know that even
if I’m going to be up obscenely late, at
least I’ll hand in that paper without a
hangover.

Even the best students I lmow
have some sort of distraction, which
lets me rationalize with ‘if they can do
it and still be Phi Beta Kappa, thenl
can do it too’. Speaking of, The MCATS
are quickly coming "arid tireselcids need‘
a shout out like wow. I mean anyone
who takes those danm 8 hour practice
tests and actually wants to go to
medical school should get mad props.
Jess, Shane, Rae, Matt, ‘Katie, and the
rest of you are going to do great! Hey
you made it a lot farther than I did.

Alright, enough of my
rambling, as I actually do have to go
write a paper now. I wish you all a safe
and semi-productive exam week.
Shoot me an e-mail if you get bored,
as I will mostly be checking it on a
ﬁfteen minute basis.

Ship1ey’s procrastination
motivated by fear, sleep

Bycmbmstﬂdey

NT}-EH36

I don’t know why Iprocrastinate,
Ireally don’t. Things are so much easier
when Ijust sit down and get my
homework done right after its assigned.
I don’t want to procrastinate and
certainly don’t take pride in it. I’m
usually pretty good about getting things
done on a reasonable time scale. I get
rough drafts of essays done a day or
two before the ﬁnal draft is due so I
have plenty of time to meet with my
professor and get any editing done.

I try to get projects done a little
early and read ahead in class, but
nonetheless I always end up
procrastinating on something. There
are so many reasons why I shouldn’t
procrastinate, so why do.I?

1)Fear, pure fear. I know that the
12 page paper is going to be hard to
write and I know that once I start
writing it, I’m going to realize exactly
how much time its going to take and
exactly how hard its going to be.

But if I don’t start it yet, I don’t
really have to think about it or worry
about it for a while.

2)Apathy. Do I really care about
some random information? Probably
not, so why read it? I especially have
this problem in classes that are general
requirements. In classes for my major
or in the electives that I get to pick, the
reading is usually interesting enough
for me to actually want to read it.

But occasionally you get those
text books that just put you to sleep.
You know that reading will help you,
but why not just get the information
from the lectures?

3)Time. There are always those
weeks where there is just too much to
do and not enough time. You have to
put off reading or little assignments just
to make sure that there is enough time
to get the essays written and tests
studied for. After all the big
assignments are done, it’s a race against
the clock to do the little ones.

4)S1eep. Ok, so maybe this
doesn’t happen too often, but it still
does occasionally.

Sometimes your working your
way through a huge stack of reading
and its really early and you know that
if you went to sleep right then, you’d
get about four hours before you have
to get up. _

While this may not be a lot, you
realize that you just spent the last 45
minutes reading the same paragraph
over and over again and still have no
idea what you said. This is the only case
that I can think of where
procrastination actually becomes
productive.

Sometimes getting a little sleep
then waking up early to ﬁnish working
can be just what you need to get things
done. .

5)This one is probably
responsible for most of the
procrastinating that every happens and
is best explained by the Demotivator
poster which reads “Procrastination:
Hard work often pays off after time,
but laziness pays off now.” lhave
plenty of distractions around here.

Why would I work when I can
be looking at the Facebook, watching
tv, or playing the guitar. When all these
fun things are calling my name, why
work now when I can put it off until
later?

 

 

- -- -—.»r..-.-. 7*“."‘."‘ "' “ '~-.'~

.. .._ _ . ..... .vm;..~.r¢« .-..a“,,,.,t,-V,_._“.,,...,,-‘,y—.g_-ups»-..»...—.-u -var.-w-.-=nu~r.«rsn~.v-—.....-vvrn .—~.--.-rm -....—.,. »‘,«....»...- ...-. .. ..

"'V"V —.—.... W... ,. .,,¢«»w..

6 OTHERNG-TUMPH

 

word

 

f\

This week’sInpic:
Whyyou’rereadyfor
Spn'ng Term

ITwo'words —- Professor Mahon.

-Why I’m looking forward to Spring:
More opportunities for the Trident to
steal features such as Ups and Downs
from the Phi.

-The Masters, Destin, and I’ll be in
England, on ly for the week though,

Buffalo Creek...awesome...Tubing in
Goshen.

IGirls in skirts.

-Why is the dig taking place on the
Colonnade this year?

IEaster is the best day of the year
EVER!

-Thank you Board of Trustees for siding
with Burish and saving Spring Term.

 

-I’ll need to recover from
overexposure to Euro trash.

-Panic is playing a 4/20 show in
Salem. I wonder if tickets are still
available? '

-Weekend trips!

-Because I have canoeing with
Elizabeth Robinson.

-I’m sick of being shot down by
Austrian ski instructors.

-Let’s see. I won’t be writing any
25 page research papers in the Spring
Term. '

-I’m looking forward to three
weeks off from writing all these
Quick Hits.

NextIime’stopic:
Spring Break2005
stories

Marshall tel s
what gives him
the warm fuzzies

Bymashalnule
FOTATOMON

Some things in life give you a warm
fuzzy feeling, while other things make you
feel gross/disgusting/poor/ignorant/
smelly/etc, etc, etc. I have compiled a list
to differentiate between the good feelings
and the bad feelings.

- Things that give you a warm fuzzy
feeling — Getting into an elevator and
noticing that it has been serviced recently.

Things that don’t — Getting into a
full elevator and smelling something
terrible... then realizing it was you.

Things that give me a warm fuzzy
feeling — Waking up in the middle of the
night fully expecting it tobe 9:00, realizing
it is only 4:00 and that you have 5 more
hours of sleep.

Things that don’t — Waking up nine
minutes before your class is supposed to
start. Deciding to just slap the class you
roll over to see a girl that slightly resembles
Michael Moore. Choosing the less
awkward event, you run to class just to
avoid being there when she wakes up.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Getting a
check in the mail from a relative for some
ridiculous holiday.

Bad feeling ~— Overdrawing on your
account because you are expecting a big
check to come, but the birthday card is
empty, forcing you to pay the 50 dollar
overdraw charge with money you still
don’t have.

Warm fuzzy feeling —— Getting all
you work done a few days before it is due.

Bad feeling — Getting your work
done two weeks after it is due.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Watching
Duke lose and Kentucky win.

Bad feeling ~ Knowing that your
bracket is so FUBAR that you won’t come
close to getting your money back.

Warm fuzzy feeling - Having a class
cancelled for no reason

Bad feeling — Having an additional
class thrown in on the last week... and a
speaker... and a paper.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Knowing that

you are going home in two weeks.
Bad feeling — Knowing that
grades are coming home with you.
Warm fuzzy feeling — Finding
Saved by the Bell on TV in the middle
of the day.
Bad feeling — It turns out to be
Saved by the Bell College Years.
Warm fuzzy feeling — Getting

into the spring term classes you want. ‘
Bad feeling — Forgetting to’

register on time and having to take a
class on feminism. A

Warm fuzzy feeling — Showering
while smoking a cigarette.

Bad feeling — Running out of

soap and shampoo in the shower, and ,

forgetting to get some at Walmart, so
instead you wash with shaving cream
and toothpaste.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Looking
in your backpack and knowing that you
came to class prepared with a pen and
paper to take notes.

Bad feeling — Having to take
notes with a piece of construction paper
and a crayon (don’t ask why I have
crayons in my backpack and not a pen).

Warm fuzzy feeling —- As a
freshmen you are done with pledgeship

. Bad feeling — As an
upperclassman, pledgeship is done.

Warm Fuzzy feeling — Figuring
out your major.

Bad feeling —~ Having your
academic advisor tell you that you are
not smart enough to major in that ﬁeld

Warm fuzzy feeling — Going
home for spring break to your old bed.

Bad feeling — Finding out that
your old room is now the new den and
you have to sleep on the couch.

Warm fuzzy feeling — Having
clean underwear and socks that match

Bad feeling — Having to wear
one dress sock and one ankle sock, and
then realizing you are out of clean
underwear so you have to go
commando until you go to Walmart to
buy new underwear rather than washing
your dirty pairs (side note: you forget
to pick up soap and shampoo while at
Walmart).

Shaq, MTV. Simpson anger Trout

aynughnout

TPEFG-BIMN

In his inﬁnite wisdom, basketball
superstar Shaquille O’Neal has realized
that because eventually his NBA days will
end, he must pursue higher education. But
beyond just taking random classes at the
University of Phoenix Online, Shaq has
found a passion for criminal justice. He
even sees a future career in it: “I want to
go to the Police Academy. I want to
actually go out and make a couple of
arrests and I want to go undercover.” I
did not make that up, those are his words.

Now, please take ample time to
appreciate that Shaq is honestly expecting
to become an UNDERCOVER police
officer. It’s one of those things that gets
funnier the more you think about it. I
mean, how dumb are you going to feel
when you be busted by an undercover
Shaquille O’Neal? That’s punishment
enough in my mind, regardless of the
crime. I also would like to point out that
Shaq has clearly surrounded himself with
such kiss—ass friends that none of them
have had the heart/balls to explain to him
why a 7’1” basketball super-star isn’t
exactly undercover police ofﬁcer material.
But all this brings me to the subject of this
week’s a.r1icle: really dumb ideas.

There are a bunch of little ones: Fox
getting rid of Family Guy (only to crawl
back), the XFL, and Ashlee Simpson (not
any particular career move, but her as a
person was just a really bad idea in
general). Then there are those amazingly
huge disasters that everyone loves to watch
and talk about: Michael Jackson since
Thriller. First of all, let me make my
Michael Jackson position clear: When I

hear about the Michael Jackson
controversy, I think of the gross lack of
play-time he gets at W&L frat parties,
especially those which are 80s themed.
Claiming to enjoy 80s music and not
listening to Michael Jackson makes as
much sense as saying you’re a Vince
Vauglm fan and haven’t seen Swingers or
Made. For those ladies out there who
haven’t had the pleasure to witness first
hand, I am able to do all the dance moves
from every music video of the Thriller
album. And if you give me a few hours, I
can dig around my dorm room and find
my shiny g1ove...and. yes, it’s
monogrammed. My favorite song would
have to be, “The way you make me feel.”
Does it make me feel a little awkward
looking back and realizing that the song
is probably written about a little boy? Yes,
of coarse it does, but I over come that
uncomfortable thought through the
busting of my sweet moves and a drink or
six.

But "that’s just how I roll, son.
Despitemy admiration for the king of pop,
I will admit he isn’t exactly doing his fans
a lot of favors with his behavior. It sort of
sucks being an MJ fan because he made
the album which was the “no matter what
happens with him after this he will always
be cool” CD, and then has proceeded to
test to see if that was really true.

But then again, I think the media
has given him some unfair coverage; I
know a fair number of people who have
switched skin-color, had tons of plastic
surgery and picked up a nasty coke habit
to go along with sick sexual addictions.
Ok, that was an HV...I don’t know
anybody like that, but I still think
understanding is called for.

In all this talk of sex crimes and

criminal behavior people lose track of T

what is really important in the situation:
he is Michael Jackson and we’re not. He
made Thriller, we didn’t. As far as I’m
concerned, the man should be excused
from all taxes and most felonies. The man
is a hero...sort of. I also want people to
stop giving him crap for his animals,
because I don’t care who you are or what
your reasons, anyone who was ever 8 years
old has dreamed of owning his own
monkey. Just cause Michael Jackson
followed through on it doesn’t make him
strange...it just means he has dedication.

But even more amazingly bad than _ .

everything Michael Jackson has done
since Thriller has got to be who ever
decided that MTV should just stop playing
music videos. I don’t want to watch a
bunch of neurotic kids get drunk and have
ﬁghts/sex. . .I live in Graharn-Lees (I’m not
excusing myself, either). I also really don’t
want to see whatever new way MTV has
managed to turn dating into some sort of
sport in which rejection and pain is even
more dramatized. That’s just cruel. I have
come to the sad realization that I receive
more comedic entertainment from Fitness
Made Simple ads featuring John Basedow
than anything on MTV (rumors are ﬂying
that he died in the Tsunami, so if you know
anything please e-mail me or the Phi cause
I want to know for sure). Well, that’s all
for this week, and I hope everyone had an
amazing Eater Egg hunt and that exams
go well. Finally, if things are going Bad,

just remember that when it comes to _ « '

studying, Don't Stop ‘till You Get Enough

because it don’t matter if you’re Black or

White, if your goal for a test is to Beat It,
you need to start with The Man in the
Mirror because even a Smooth Criminal
can’t wing it.

Succumb to the magnetism of facebook

ByBIeeMa|lun
Bela

Facebook. You know about it,
even if you aren’t on it, and don’t worry
eventually you will succumb to its
magnetism. And when you do, you’ll
know how to make your facebook profile
perfect, reﬂecting your utter coolness.
Well, at least that’s what you want people
to think. .-
So is your proﬁle dominant?

"What are the hidden messages it’s relaying

to the rest of the world? Let’s break it
down. First off, how many friends do you
have? If it’s less than a hundred, that is a
poor showing. This is a small school
people, you should have a hundred friends
— you’ve at least had class with as many.
Who are your friends? I hope you’re not
saying that they're all your sorority sisters.
You should have at least a few friends
from every sorority, fraternity, and
independents. We’re trying to promote
interfraternity love here. Plus this shows
the profile viewer that you don’t hate and
that you’re friendly and open to
relationships with all types. What about
your friends at other schools? Well, I

should hope that you have a good .

representation from the Ivies. I mean,
we’re nerdy, the friends we hung out with
in high school were nerdy, we just

' happened to come to W&L and gained a

million cool points just by the sheer
awesomeness that is — was our school.
Maybe you have a lot of friends from other
schools, maybe not so much, but this is
really contingent on whether you went to
a public or private school. It may be that
you just have a smaller pool from which
you can draw friends. I, on the other hand,
graduated with 450 others and was in the
unique position to know a good many of
them. Most of them went to JMU, the
people I like went to Tech.

Now, let’s look at your picture.
Is it posed? You mid crazy caper? With
friends, by yourself? Something random
and hilarious? You want the picture to
reﬂect your personality. And that may
mean that you want to draw out a laugh
from the viewers of your profile. It may

' mean that you want your boyfriend or your

particularly hot friend in the picture. Now
ladies, there is a double standard here that
you have to watch out for. You may want
to have your boyfriend in the picture, and
while that is sweet on a boy’s profile, on
the girl’s, it is not always so cute. You

don’t want the picture to look like you’re
putting your boyfriend on display for
approval. Being an independent, strong
woman with an identity separate from her
boytoy is very acceptable and highly
encouraged.

What next? How about the
information you actually provide the
profile viewer? What major did you list?
I hope it’s your actual one because I can
hardly believe so many boys are truly
hoping to graduate with a degree in
women studies. Iknow you thought it was
cute because you like to “study women”
but really, it just looks silly. I wish as much
as the next person that sociology meant
studying the social scene. I'm graduating
magnum cum laude in that! What about
your contact info? You should include the
information that will help people to locate
and or contact you. Cell phone, screen
name, e-mail address, house address, you
know, the essentials. But don’t feel the
need to include the address to which you
return in the summer. That’s a little bit of
an over-share and just gives the creepy
facebook stalkers an easy in.

Now the extended information
section is where you get to be really
creative. This next section is very telling,
so be honest with yourself. Do you really
want a relationship? Probably not. That
is why it is perfectly acceptable to put that
all you’re looking for is random play —— it
prevents people from getting their hopes
up. It’s also fun to be in a relationship
with a close friend, but make sure you
deﬁne it. Open relationship means that
the two partners are allowed to hook up
with other people and not get jealous or
hurt. Relationship and marriage, well
you’re set. You’re not allowed to fool
around, so just be careful.

What about your favorites? Please
do not list every book.you’ve ever read,
every band you’ve ever listened to, every
movie you’ve ever watched, every quote
you’ve ever heard. That’s ridiculous, no
one will read that. It makes your proﬁle
unnecessarily long and you want people
to read your proﬁle and learn about you.
So give us a sample of your favorite things,
or a genre. Ifyou look at my proﬁle, you’ll
notice my favorite movies are funny
movies, movies that make you think, and
stoner ﬂicks. Go ﬁgure, but it deﬁnitely
reﬂects my personality.

Clubs and jobs and interests. I
hope you’ve at least listed something
clever, and I hope you’re involved.
There’s no excuse for people being

uninvolved on this campus. Granted I’m ' ' 7 '

a cheerleader and school spirit is my job,
but really people, let’s have a little bit of
pride. If you’re in a facebook group,
you’ve got some kind of interest. Which
brings us to groups: be in them, they’re
fun. They also tell a lot about you. How
many groups are you in and what is their
nature? How many of them did you make
yourself? Again, be honest with yourself.
If you are a group-joining whore,
announce that by joining that group. That
way you tell people that you do recognize
you have a problem, and you don’t want
to do anything about it. But really, don’t
go crazy. I’ve seen profiles where the little
box doesn’t hold all the groups the person
is in. That’s out of control, y’all.

Courses, list them. Again with . : _
the contact info, the facebook is a tool to '

be used to locate and learn about a person.
Plus it’s nice to know who’s in your
classes, or ﬁgure out who the cute boy in

the third row of your chemistry class is ‘ V '

and give you a reason to friend him! And
your electives will also reveal where some
of your other interests lie. Then there’s
the wall. Has anyone posted on your wall?
What has been said? If you want people
to post on your wall, post on theirs.
They’ll appreciate it and both of you will

look cooler. However, there are those ‘

among us who are just that awesome that
they solicit postings simply by existing and
doing how they do. We all wish we could
be those people, but unfortunately we
can’t.

So to wrap up, let’s review. The
way to pull off looking suave and to state
your amazingness without actually saying
it through the facebook profile:

1. Keep it relatively short. Say
what you need to say, but be concise.

2. Be honest. W&L put the honor . ‘

code in place and we should live by it in
all aspects of our lives.

3. But be funny and clever. No one
likes a boring profile.

4. Make sure everything reﬂects I

something about you. The picture, where
you live, the groups you’re in. Tlhere are
ways of saying things without saying them.
Understating is crucial.

5. Be diverse in , your friends.
That’s the ultimate way to say you’re cool.

When you are liked by people in all walks ; I ‘V I

of life, you have truly achieved awesome.

This says to the facebook viewer, “This . '

person is chill. People like to hang out
with her and she doesn’t hate.” So y’all
don’t hate.

