F‘ Arch
5372.155

R552
\/.107‘
Mr‘, H
c. 7,.



Parents, family co
Alumni reminisce about ,

 

past Parents’ Weekends

BY KATHERINE SI-[ELL
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Every Parent’s Weekend,
as hundreds of mothers and fa-
thers descend upon our campus,
we are bound to hear various sto-
ries from alumni, describing their
own college experience in rela-
tion to ours. Though we can’t
imagine a W&L different from
our own, the place they describe
often seems to be something from
another planet.

The first thing Dr. George
Ballantyne, ’79, of Newnan, Geor-
gia, noted as being starkly differ-
ent than it was when he was in
college was Lexington itself.

‘The entire town is neater
and cleaner,” he said, and his
wife, Missy Ballantyne, who at-
tended Randolph—Macon
Women’s College, said “The
town has really spruced up. Of
course, Papagallo, Alvin Dennis,
and College Town Shop were
there, but that was it.”

She also remarked on the
wonderful restorations of the
Theater, which reopened last
year. Dr. and Mrs. Ballantyne
have two children at W&L,
Patricia, ’05, and Mitch, ’06.

The Ballantynes said,
though, that they believed the
social scene to ultimately be the
same.

“Girls would come down

from girls’ schools,” Dr.
Ballantyne said, “so there were
always girls around.”

Mrs. Ballantyne remem-
bered the boarding houses that
used to be open for girls across
the street from SAE. “They
would charge us twenty dollars
a night, and have several twin
beds in one room. That way, we
didn’t have to drive over the
mountains in the middle of the
night, although some people still
did.” When asked about the
strictness of the boarding
houses, she replied, “Well, we all
had to be back at school at a cer-
tain time, and the renters asked
us to sign in and out, but they
were all pretty lenient.”

The only difference Dr.
Ballantyne saw was the Univer-
sity control of the campus.

“The University didn’t
own the [fraternity] houses, so
we would destroy them, break-
ing windows and such. The Uni-
versity had no control, I don’t
even remember there being a
house mother.”

Of course, without the Uni-
versity owning the fraternity
houses, many of the houses were
not as nice as they are today.

“It was like ‘Animal
House,”’ Mrs. Ballantyne added.

Other alumni, such as Mike
Colpoys, ’75, and Jim Lancaster,

 

_ stories al

ANNUAL TRADITION. Students and their parents walk past charity fundr

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

I   NG-TUM

 

Emory and Henry during Parents’ Weekend activities.

’79 have stories about doing
things the students today would
not consider doing. Both have
 ‘iving a car down
the Collonade at night. The cars
then must have been a great deal
smaller to fit in between the build-
ings and the columns. Mr.

Lancaster has a daughter, J ane,
who is a sophomore at W&L.
The academic scene
was also very different. Until the
school went co-ed in 1985, the
admissions and school work was
not as rigid as it is today. “Aca-
demics are a lot more difﬁcult.

VOLUME CVHf,NO. 14

Tie Iiiideiii voice of Wax/iiogioo and U6 Uoiversziyiiiite 7897
I1V€fg€ OI1

Lexingto for annual Weekend

aisers as they enter \X/ilson Field to watch

The competition is tougher now
that the lower half academically
of the school has been ﬁlled with
smart girls,” says Dr. Ballantyne.

Overall, though, our
school has managed to stay the
same for the majority of W&L’s
history, a thing most alum and

PI ll

    

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004

 

 
   

SAHAR KAMAl.l
the Generals’ football team defeat

students are proud of. We can
share and compare stories from
our own college career with
alumni who graduated thirty or
forty years ago. Hopefully, our
campus will continue to remain
the same for generations to
come.

THE RING-TUM

 

Parents’ Weekend is a boon
for Lexington area businesses

BY ETHAN JAMESON
STAFF WRITER

The buzz on Lexington’s streets has dimmed,
hotels have cleared out, sidewalk trafﬁc has all but
disappeared and small businesses downtown tally
up sales totals as parents and families of Washing-
ton and Lee students return home after the
University’s armual Parents’ Weekend.

For many small businesses downtown, Par-

 

weekend than on most regular weekends.

Next door, at The Potting Shed, owners John
and Faith Vosburgh estimated their sales this
weekend at 30 percenthigher than most regular
weekends.

Stephen Robbins, president of Hamilton-
Robbins on Main Street said that Parents’ Week-
end has historically been a boost to his busi-
ness.

“It’s comparable to the day after Thanks-

ents’ Weekend giving,” he
means big busi- said and es-
ness and sales timated that
are comparable his store
to one of the re- had a 75 per-
tail industry’s cent in-
biggest sale crease in
days — Thanks- sales over a
giving. typical
“It was a weekend.
busy week- Other
end,” said Patty businesses,
Neofotis, likeGraden
ownerofACor- Shoe Com-
ner of Lexing- pany, Inti-
ton gift shop. mate U, and
“Weso1dalot College
oflamps  and Town Shop,
C h r i s t In a s ﬁTHAN]AM1=.soN ‘ -TUM offered ex-
decorations GETTING DOWN TO BUSINESS. Local area businesses love our parents. t e n d e d
and silk ﬂowers.” shopping hours on Sunday in anticipation of Par-

Neofotis also attributed her increase in sales
this weekend to tourists passing through town and
the good weather experienced in the area and esti-
mated that sales were “probably double” this past

ents’ Weekend.
About 700 parents registered for Parents’
Weekend this year with almost 1600 family mem-

bers attending University—held events.

Demand for college Arabic

BY ETHAN JAMESON
STAFF WRITER

Student enrollment in Arabic language
classes at U.S. colleges and universities reached
record highs and increased more than 92 percent
between 1998 and 2001, according to a recent sur-
vey released by the Modem Language Associa-
tion, a group of educators and scholars.

“Demand for Arabic has increased enor-
mously at the University of California, Santa Bar-
bara,” said Nancy Gallagher, chair of the University’s
Middle East Studies program. “We had 56 students
sign up for ﬁrst year Arabic. In the past we usually
had about 20 students.”

Growing interest led the university to add a
new section of Arabic this fall. Gallagher added
that demand for colloquial Egyptian Arabic also
remains high and the program recently had to sub-
mit a request to the administration “for additional
funds to support the increased demand for Ara-
bic.”

lt’s the same across the country. Enrollment
has quadrupled in the past two years at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania. At Georgetown University,
where 370 students make up the largest Arabic pro-
gram among U.S. colleges, enrollment is up 36 per-
cent over last year.

Enrollment in Arabic classes at the Univer-
sity of Michigan increased 50 percent this fall from
the same time last year and burgeoning enrollment
in Arab Culture classes capped 96 percent com-
pared with last winter.

Raji Rarnrnuny, professor of Arabic language
and applied linguistics at the University of Michi-

Board of Trustees and IFC attempt to clarify alcohol policy

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR—lN—CHIEF

In an effort to clarify Washington and Lee
University’s alcohol policy, last week Philip
Norwood, Rector, of the Board of Trustees sent a
letter the Ring-tum Phi and the Trident. Both carn-
pus newspapers printed the letter, which enumer-
ated ﬁve speciﬁc provisions regarding alcohol.

Through this letter and a meeting with the
Inter—Fraternity Council, the Board has made clear,
“that they wanted students to comply to all rel-
evant guidelines concerning alcohol and the ad-

-ministration to enforce,” said Thomas Pickering,

President of the IFC. “There is no higher power at
the University than the Board.”
The IFC has asked the fraternities to make

I some speciﬁc changes, “We asked fraternities to
identify their of-age members with a marking so

only they could be served by a TIPS trained bar-
tender,” he said.

Thus far, the IFC is expecting fraternities
to, “put forth a good faith effort to comply with
University policy,” Pickering said.

Each individual fraternity is expected to
monitor their own functions. This past weekend,
the IFC did visit fraternity leaders and also observed
the party environment at fraternity houses.

According to Margo McClinton, Director
of the Commons, no changes have been made to
University policy. A

“I can say that there has been no change in
University Policy. University Policy has derived
from three elements state and local law, the rules of
the national fraternity organizations, and». the rules
of the University,” she said.

Fraternity nationals will also be expected
to play a role. “The national headquarters have

been, and will be in correspondence with chapters
to convey the level of enforcement,” said
McClinton.

The IFC is monitoring fraternity compli-
ance itself. “We want the individual fraternities to
be able to monitor and audit their own functions
because fraternity men are adults and should be
treated as such,” said Pickering.

“Everyone is asked to monitor,” said

.McClinton. “This is a joint effort. The IFC has

asked students to be honest about their behavior
and hold one another accountable."
Should a fraternity breaches the Univer-

sity alcohol policy, the IFC Judicial Board would

process the‘ violation.

“This is not easy for anyone, but it is worth a
try. The safety of others depends on on our ef-
forts; we cannot afford to wait for something bad
to happen,” said McClinton.

classes increases significantly

gan, said, “The ‘new’ generation of students want
to study Arabic language and culture for profes-
sional and career purposes.

“An important factor is the increasing num-
ber of ‘heritage’ students of Arab/Muslirn descent
after Sept.11 for preservation of heritage and ca-
reer—oriented purposes,” said Rammuny about the
spike in enrollment.

Since Fall ’02 at the University of Virginia,
enrollment in Arabic classes has been “unprec—
edented," said Mohammed Sawaie, a professor of
Arabic at UVa.

“In beginning Arabic we have  102 stu-
dents,” said Sawaie. “This number far exceeds any
other Asian language at the University.”

These ﬁgures correspond with ﬁgures in the
report released by the MLA. According to the
Association’s ﬁgures, the increase in Arabic en-
rollment makes it the second highest foreign lan-
guage enrollment increase, after American Sign
Language (ASL).

Sawaie attributed the signiﬁcant increase to
“interest in the Middle East due to the war on Iraq,
[and the] need for Arabists in the various govem—
ment agencies.” He also believed that UVa.’s prox-
imity to Washington, D.C. and the rise of a new
generation at the University whose families origi-
nate from the

Middle East or South Asia had an impact on
the University’s enrollment increase.

Khadija Bentouharni, an Arabic instructor at
Virginia Military Institute,'agrees that the enroll-
ment has also changed on the VMI campus.

See Arabic on page 2

  

 

'  direction of Washingté  .»
overrtfre nerd  iviil  ‘

Strategic Ptan,ii3£zhdi,th‘esi

    
    
  
  

on Manda); Niééttzbet
DuP0I_2tAuditof'f_t " .5
and vsigniﬁca'nt‘v‘o ca. ,
plan. I 1715: planning sessile  ii;
Fryeart educational co”
planning sessiorftsforthe‘ ‘
versity of Virg4iriio,=.a.§ wjelll _ :
ingtonand Lee, m'zz_   J‘ A lg
rive three-hourgplqniningi
4 Please attend   _

 

 

-x_‘,i‘._ ‘ _ ":7 ‘. l_t
.._ ..-

L,-?‘\t\.“.~r'.1I<’i-'«‘i=":o
up at) :,/[\> ‘:"l.1r’l:m

PAGE 2 NOV 0 92304

 

'E'll-.l?.l?*.'xii-'ll“.‘-Ill‘-3

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004

NEWS

Physics and engineering professor
left mark on W&L community

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
I MANAGING EDITOR

Robert Akins, the Robert
Lee Telford Professor of Phys-
ics and Engineering, died at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital last
Wednesday after battling cancer.

“In Bob’s twenty years on
the Washington and Lee faculty,
he contributed signiﬁcantly in
many arenas: in the classroom,
academic programming, plan-
ning of new facilities and cam-
pus environmental concerns, to
name a few,” said W&L Provost
Thomas Williams. “His contribu-
tions to the improvement of
Washington and Lee will serve
as a memorial to him. He will be
greatly missed.”

Akins has been on staff at
W&L for 20 years. During his
tenure, he “transformed the pro-
gram into the more comprehen-
sive engineering major offered
today, enabling our students to
go into essentially any engineer-
ing field,” said Professor Ken-
neth Van Ness, chairman of the
Physics and Engineering Depart-
ment.

While on faculty, Akins
was largely responsible for
bringing the intemet to the W&L

COURTESY W&L NEws OFFICE

WE WILL MISS YOU. The Robert Lee Telford Professor of Physics and
Engineering poses for a picture. Akins taught at W&L for 20 years.

campus. He founded and chaired
the Environmental Planning and
Management Committee. Akins
also played a crucial role in mak-
ing sure the environment was not
harmed when the Elrod Commons
was built.

Akins was an expert in the
effects and uses of wind. His re-

Post Election 2004  
SVU, WLU, VMI students speak out about the election

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

In an election where Vir-
ginia could have gone to either
candidate, many local college
students registered locally so
their vote would mean more.

Madeline Walk, a Southern
Virginia University student, orga-
nized a get-out—the-vote cam-
paign for her campus. All 68 stu-
dents that Walk registered chose
to register in Virginia.

Walk said that many SVU
students are from Utah, which is
a sure thing for Bush.

“Students wanted to reg-

ister in Virginia so they could
make a difference,” Walk said.

According the Walk, this is
the first year the students in
Buena Vista were allowed to reg-
ister in Virginia. Previously, the
registrar would not register them
because students are “transient
citizens,” Walk said.

Virginia Military Institute
appears to be another school
where the conservative vote
reigns.

Andrew Upshaw, a cadet
involved with College Republi-
cans at VMI, said the war on ter-
ror is an issue with resonance to
VMI cadets.

search, which included airborne
pollutants, led to the develop-
ment of performance standards
for wind turbines used to gener-
ate energy.

“Bob had the uncommon
capacity to be honest and self-
aware of his considerable tal-
ent—he was good at virtually ev-

“A lot of kids here, includ-
ing myself, are going intothe mili-
tary and whoever will be their
commander in chief definitely
concerns them,” he said. “I’d say
the majority of the people here at
VMI support President Bush and
the way he has handled to war
on terror.”

Washington and Lee Uni-
versity has also seen a ﬂurry of
political activity lately.

W&L student Kelly Jo
Larsen, a Democrat, ran a cam-
paign to register students locally.
Larsen registered about 30 stu-
dents locally, about half Repub-
lican and half Democrat.

erything he committed himself
to——and yet at heart remained
modest and unassuming,” said
Washington and Lee University
President Thomas G. Burish. “He
had the inquisitive and critical
mind of a scholar but the soul of
a poet who could ﬁnd great re-
ward in common things. All who
witnessed his last months were
moved and enriched by the opti-
mism, courage, and openness
with which he dealt with his iH—
ness. He was truly an inspiration
for how to live life, how to share
it with others, and how to leave
it..”

Akins was also active in
the Lexington community. He
served for several years on the
Lexington planning commission
and served as its chairman and
also was a member of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.

A memorial service will be
held Friday, Nov. 12, at 2 p.m. at
the Lexington Presbyterian
Church on the corner of Main
and Nelson streets. Harrison Fu-
neral Home, located in Lexington,
is handling arrangements. Dona-
tions in Akins’s memory may be
made to the American Cancer So-
ciety or to the Dr. Chris Thomas
Research Fund at the University
of Virginia.

“A lot of our students live
in states that stand no chance of
going Democrat,” Larsen said.
“They were interested in regis-
tering here so that their vote
might count more.”

Daniel Fassio, a student
leader in the Young Democrats,
credits Florida’s confusion in the
last election for the high voter
registration this year.

“I think this election has
really energized voters in gen-
eral, but maybe not for the right
reasons. “With the debacle of last
elections’ logistics, I think people
want to feel like they are in fact
electing the president and there

Arabic classes

Continued from the Front Page

“It’s been affected in a very, very striking way,” said
Bentouharni who added that enrollment in her language classes
since 2001 has increased more than 100 percent.

Other than language courses, VMI has developed other
Arab-related courses to meet students’ interest in the region and
their growing demand for knowledge.

Bentouharni said that a course titled “Arab Civilization and
Culture,” developed at VMI to “help our students be open to the
world,” was proving to be “quite popular.”

This interest has proven so widespread that VMI now of-
fers a major in the language. The Institute currently boasts seven
Arabic majors and seven double majors.

Bentouharni said that incentives for cadets to take Arabic
differ and ranged from having the language on their resumes, to
post-9/ ll interests. She also stressed the growing interest in VMI’s
study—abroad program with the Arabic Language Institute of Fez
(ALIF)-

“When they go abroad, they change their incentive, get to
appreciate the people, and~ look back and question their first in-
centives, insights and understanding,” said Bentouhami.

Wilson Nance, a VMI junior from Richmond, Va., wanted to
experience Arab culture and spent last summer in Morocco through

- the agreement between VMI and ALIF.

“Being able to travel to a part of the world and speak in
Arabic was an incredible feeling,” said Nance. “You leam so
much, and I appreciate it so much more.”

Only about 10 percent of Arabic language students become
proﬁcient enough to hold a professional job requiring Arabic.
After three years of Arabic classes, Nance claims he is npwfluent
enough to hold conversations with people, but is not yet fluent
enough to talk about human nature and politics.

“Once you progress, people drop out,” Nance said. “With
the Rats [VMI freshmen], they really want to take it. They know
about the job opportunities for Arabic speakers.”

Career opportunities for Arabic speakers are abundant. Af-
ter graduation, Nance is considering spending a few years in the
Marines before joining the private sector.

isn’t going to be confusion,”
Fassio said.

Fassio believes social is-
sues, such as education, welfare
and abortion, are driving young
voters at W&L.

“College students, I think,
have a keen eye on the economy,
since we’re the ones who will be
looking for jobs and hoping to
keep them,” Fassio said.

Students at all the local
schools believe focus is‘on the
presidential race.

“We’ve drawn a line in the
sand between Republicans and
Democrats, and I’ve read stud-
ies that people are reporting that

they are more likely to vote strict
partisan in these elections than
in the last ﬁve presidential elec-
tion cycles,” Fassio said. “Many
people will determine their local
votes from their presidential
vote. It’s a sad state of affairs in

American politics when people '

refuse to look at issues and only
look at party.”

Jackson Mabry, of W&L’s
College Republicans, agrees that
students are generally. not‘ aware
of local campaigns, “although
College Republicans does gen-
erate quite a bit of involvement
with local Congressional cam-
paigns,” he said.

 

The highly anticipated election night at-
tracted many students to the television and cre-
ated an unusual campus buzz for a Tuesday night.
Staff at the University Commons planned to host
student gatherings throughout the Elrod Commons
on Tuesday. Separate lounge areas were equipped
with televisions devoted to speciﬁc media cover-

My favorite part was the
Kappa Sig cocktail party.

-KATHY ANGELICO, PARENT

ELECTION NIGHT PARTY

Seeing parents party like
kids.

-MAGGIE CANBY ‘07

age, including CNN and MSNBC, while FOX News
was notably absent from the list.

But by 9 p.m. Tuesday evening, only a hand-
ful people had gathered for the planned events.
One of the lounges was completely vacant and the
T.V. had not yet been turned on.

Many students however ﬂocked to an off-

I never have my parents
here, I’m from Europe.

-VIRGINIA VESELINOVA ‘O5

campus party at “Old House," located across from
the Outing Club on Washington St. The social
gathering was co-sponsored by College Republi-\\

cans and Young Democrats.

The crowded house was full of Democrats \
and Republicans displaying their support for can-
didates Bush and Kerry through stickers, pins, and

Seeing how your friends. are
a product of your parents.

-JEAN-RosE CLAWATER ‘07

 

"Seeing who’s weirder, your
friends or your parents.

-CHRIS APPLEWHITE ‘06

t-shirts. Blue and Red beer was offered from sepa-
rate kegs, allowing students to further express their
partisan beliefs.
I Fans of FOX News were pleased to discover
that the Old House party also offered unrestricted
coverage of their favorite news station.
-SENIOR STAFF WRITER ROB ARMSTRONG

Parents can see their
kids...integrated into the
workings of campus.

-JULIAN LEDFORD 

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004

mi_';RINc—rur1'l’ut
STAFF EDITORIAL
Veterans’ Day Must Be Observed

In our years at this fine Univer-

' sity, we’ve watched federal holidays
come_and go, with little to no celebra-
tion at all on this lackluster campus.
This year, we refuse to sit by idly while
Veterans’ Day ﬂies by with nary a
word. ‘ , ‘

We’re not asking to skip classes
on Veterans’ Day (although that would
be nice, especially considering that
federal employees will get the day
off). We are asking for recognition
of all the lives lost in the name of this
country. .

Especially in this time of war,
where young men are dying for this
country every day, we need to recog-
nize the individuals who work hard
every day to defend our country.

The sacrifices that Veterans make,
and have made, not only enable our
existence as a nation, but enable us,
on an individual level, to study and
W&L and to enjoy the lives that we
have here. It is therefore fitting that
we, the students at W&L, honor our
Veterans in a significant way.

Possible tributes for future Veter-
ans’ Days include a memorial service,
special speaker brought in to discuss
Veterans’ issues. Forums such as
these would raise awareness of criti-
cal Veteran issues.

On a personal level, students and
faculty could take up a collection of
money or goods for a local Veterans’
home. Sending cards or visiting the
VA hospital in Roanoke would be an-
other kind and thankful gesture.

The bottom line is that our Veter-
ans are heroes. They are the ones
who allow us to be free and to pros-
per. The gift that they have given to
our nation as a whole and to us as in-
dividuals is beyond price, and ought at
least to be recognized in this minor, '
relatively triﬂing way.

   

 te of the Week

“State police Lieutenant Eric Wolford said
Ellis allegedly offered each voter $25 and a
bottle of whiskey if they would support a
certain local candidate.”

~The Louisville Channel

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin. Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderrnan

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst: Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor

, Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily I-Iulen

Business Manager 4 David Seifert

Circulation Director ' Rob Rain

Asst. Circ. Directors Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara
Stephen Lipscomb
Amanda Tholke

Distribution Dir
Copy Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@w1u.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

 RiN<1;—*mi ’

   

CAiEYANDErsoN
OPINIONS Eonor

Em m

lNl “Ns

   

United States needs a ‘Madame President’

Have you ever had one of those moments
where you realize how hard people before you
have fought for what they believed in and your
accomplishments to date suddenly seem in-
consequential in comparison? I recently went
to KEWL’s showing of Iron—Jawed Angels, an
amazing and inspirational film about radical
suffragists who picketed a war-time president
and held voluntary hunger
strikes in prison to, get their
point across. Leaving the
theater, I wondered if I would
ever have a cause that I be-
lieved in passionately enough to spend my
life, or years of my life, fighting for it. Have all
of the major battles been fought?

Not by a long shot. Thinking about elec-
tions, and spurred on by the words of my so-
cial psychology teacher, I realized I had found
an issue worth fighting for; (or at the very
least, worthy of writing about in the college
newspaper.) WE NEED A WOMAN FOR
PRESIDENT!

Seriously, for a country that prides itself
on being the most progressive and forward-
thinking, especially with -regards to women’s
rights, we are falling drastically behind. Many
of the European industrialized countries have
beaten us to the punch in having either female

presidents or prime ministers: France, Ireland,

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNE FINLEY ‘O7

pzrture raurtery renatagau

Switzerland, Finland, and Great Britain. And
they are not alone. Other countries that Ameri-
cans would consider seriously underdevel-
oped or that are even poverty stricken in com-
parison, like Mongolia, Haiti, India, and
Rwanda, have all had female leaders.

So, what’s the problem? Is it that Ameri-
cans think females are incompetent, or unable
to be assertive leaders? Is it the
fact (and a male has actually
raised his hand and said this
in a class of mine) that they are
hormonal, expected to bear
children, and are supposedly crabby and irra-
tional once a month? And are we saying that
male politicians don’t have their own special
issues? For starters, among recent presidents
and prominent politicians it seems to me that
there has been a rash of pathological liars,
philanderers, and sex—addicts. Power, which
has been in male hands since basically the
dawn of time, has certainly gone to their heads.

There are all kinds of women, but extreme
and even contradictory stereotypes of them.
Women are traditionally supposed to be meek,
hyper—emotional and in a word, weak. “Devi-
ant” female-types, on the other spectrum, are
composed of by the femi-nazi’s, mean-
mommy’s, and *itches of this world. Where is
the middle ground? It is popularly assumed

PAGE 3

pzrtt/re from 2:/bite/1au.re.ga12

HAILTO THEVCHIEF. Leading possbilities for the first female President are Senator Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) and National Security Advisor Condoleeza Rice

that a woman who is trying to climb the em-
ployment ladder is trying to “be a man”. Why
is this? Why is trying to gain equality frowned
upon, why is feminism (gasp) a bad word, and
why is the office of the presidency reserved
for rich white men?

If you look at many of the problems facing
our country today, it becomes clear to me that
a strong woman could help things immensely.
Women would be better at diplomacy and see-
ing different perspectives than their own. For
example, rather than calling all enemies of the
U.S. evil and inhuman, as Bush is unceasingly
fond of doing, a woman might be sensitive and
open—minded enough to realize that evildoers
are not automatically evil at heart and every-
one is shaped by their environment. Keeping
other countries from hating you is always a
good idea; it’s just smart business.

In the long run, women and men are not so
different. They have similar potential and ca-
pabilities and both are fully able to fulfill the
offices of the presidency. Why, when so many
people have begun to regard elections as a
choice between the “lesser of two evils,” have
competent-females not been included as a valid
alternative? The time has come for half the
population to be represented in the area that
arguably matters most: the leadership of our
country.

Labeling fulﬁlls unique role in W&L society and elsewhere

I think its pretty cool when people ask me questions. It is ﬂattering to know that
someone cares about who you are and what you like. During freshman year, the most
common questioned asked is about your hometown. But what does it actually say?
Maybe geographic stereotypes actually do apply to me in some instances. Yes, Iknow
how to ride a horse and have been on cattle drives. Yes, it snows a ton. And no, I’ve

actually only been skiing a couple times, but I can recommend what ski resorts to visit ’

duringthe summer. This is where alot ofdiscussions end. You get to know the person
a little bit, but no better than anyone else you talked to. When
faced with the decision of what label I should use to describe
myself in a short conversation, I usually try to explain myself in
terrnsofwhatlthinklhave incommonwiththeotherperson, but
are labels only relevant in the context of who you are with?
Iflmeetsomeoneatthehorsecentenlwilltellthernthatlfoxhrmt Iflmeetsomeone
at a hockey game, I’ll tell them that I am an Avalanche fan. Most of the time, I don’t
encounter people who can give me any idea of who they really are within just a few
minutes. Over reading days, I was in DC riding the metro out to Pentagon City to do
some shopping when a man sat down next to me. He said hello and we started talking.
Witl1inlessthantenminutes,IfeltlikeIreallykriewhirrLlknewwherehewenttocollege,
law school, where he worked, where he lived, why he was in DC, and about his experi-
ence with law school. I told him a lot about me and how I am thinking about law school.

"He apparently felt he knew me well, too, because he gave me a lot of really useful

IN THE IRONS
CARISSA SHIPLEY ‘O7

advice. When the train stopped at his stop, he gave me his business card and told me
that he would really like to talk more and answer any questions that I had about being
alawyer. '

In a strange coincidence, a similar thing happened over fall  last year. Once
again, I was in DC and was on a very crowded metro. It was really late at night and a
hockey game had just ended and  fans were headed home. For some reason, I kept
looking at the guy that was standing next to me and he was looking at me, too. We

started talking and I instantly felt like I knew him. He was just out of
law school and working for aﬁrm in DC. Again, I couldn’t have talked
to him for more than ten minutes or so.

After these experiences, I wonder if labeling ourselves is even
‘relevant? Maybe people are just naturally predisposed to seek out
others who are like themselves and there is nothing that can be brought up in a
conversation that really makes you feel like you know the person that you are talking
to without this pre—disposition. Ifthis is true, why should anyone even bother to meet
new people? Apparently, I should only talk to lawyers who are riding the metro in DC,
but I really do like to get to know people. I love to sit in the airport and watch people
and wonder what their stories are. I love the delight that I get when I ﬁnd out some-
thing about a person that shocks me and completely changes my thoughts about
who they really are. We only get one life, and we have to make decisions that deﬁne
who we are, but getting to know new people can be our way of living other labels.

 

Democratic Party - 1 Gotta suck to be one of the Blue State faithful
right now. Bright spots— Barack Obarna crushes Alan Keyes, Salazar edges
Coors in heavily Republican Colorado. .

Kerry’s War Record- 4-9 I picture Kerry walking into a room looking
dejected. Senator McCain is there, and he says  come in.”

Zombies- T In a turnaround from last week, John Ashcroft has a job for
, the next four years, in another victory for undead rights.

Condi Rice—  Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the next Secretary of
State.

W&L Alcohol Policy- «&—+ The right thing is (probably?) being done, but
why is it that no one seems to know what’s going on? Help us out, lFC/
Adrninistrators/Board of Trustees. That letter we got a while back was
somewhat vague about what exactly was going to be done.

Pittsburgh Steelers- T How often can you predict with 100% certainty
midway through the season who the League Rookie of the Year is going to
be? Ben Roethlisberger is a lock.

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

his pregnant wife. Ah, how ﬁckle you are, American media.

 

Class Attendance on Nov. 9-  Hey, professors, observe closely this
Tuesday whether you see any strange attendance drop—offs. (Side note to A
Professors Velasquez and DeLaney- I will not be a part of this trend)

-Scott Peterson 1, The Supreme Court is in session, and the most
compelling law story in the news is a sketchy lowlife accused of murdering

Parents’ -Weekend-  Sketchy and fun as usual.

Professor Akins- T US. Navy Veteran, W&L community leader, and by
all accounts I’ve heard, a fantastic teacher and technological visionary.
The Science Center will not be the same without him.

Ayad Allawi- 4-9 If you’re about to start a ﬁnal military offensive against
someone, you don’t TELL them so beforehand, man. Props for ﬁnally
doing it, though.

John Edwards- .1. Lose the Vice Presidency, your political career, if not
dead, has been set back tremendously, and your wife is diagnosed with
breast cancer, all in one day. Right or left, you gotta feel bad for the guy.

 

PAGE4 pi MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004 W
What the election means- prophecies for the nextfour years and campaign ‘08

 

President Bush has, barring a
miracle of no lesser magnitude than
the Boston Red Sox coming back
from a0-3 deﬁcit, won his oft-touted
“four more years.” It’s a bad day to
be the 49 percent of voters who
voted against Bush, and a great day

evangelical Protestants, and espe-
cially those from rural areas. The
Democratic party failed to make the
core issues the primary focus of this
campaign, and instead the election
was decided on values, as the Re-
publicans had planned. If they had

if you’re a Re- . made Iraq the pri-
p u b l i c a n . M0DERATE’g MUSINGS mary issue of this
What will Red , campaign, as
Tuesday (the CA1-EY ANDERSON 06 many people said

catchy phrase
for Nov. 2, 2004 that I hope to turn
into a sensation) mean forAmerica,
and for politics within America?
First, my more liberal friends
need to stop wailing about this be-
ing the end of the world. President
Bush, say what you will about him,
is a Yale graduate, and the last time
I had checked, had run the country
for four years without the world
ending. So, as Detective John
Kimble might say, “Stop whining.”
I voted for Kerry, but I don’t think
Bush is going to ruin us. So let’s
look at how President .Bush won
the election. Voters who voted
based on “core issues” like the war
in Iraq and the economy tended to
vote very strongly in favor of Sena-
tor Kerry. Where, then, did the votes
come from to give President Bush
such a relatively strong majority of
the popular vote, and to turn the
tide in states like Ohio and Florida?
Quite simply, the groups that
decided this election were the “three
g” voters, those whose primary con-
cerns were “god, guns, and gays.”
Karl Rove appears to have been
correct in his analysis that the Re-
publican party had a vast untapped

reserve of votes in the evangelical -

demographic, and playing to them
on issues like stem cell research and
the blurring of the line between
church and state has obviously paid
off in spades. I would not be sur-
prised if many voters who turned
out to vote for the various same-
sex maniage bans ended up also
voting for Bush when otherwise
they rriight have stayed home. Vot-
ers who voted based on ‘yalues”
ended up favoring Bush by an 80
percent—20 percent margin, where
as margins on “issues,” i.e. Iraq and
the economy, were for Kerry 60 per-
cent-40 percent. Despite this, ex-
pect the Republican party to press
its luck on these “core issues” as
well as on values.

The brilliant success of the
Republican party is contrasted by
the apathetic failure of the Demo-
cratic party. Where are the minori-
ties and youth voters that were sup-
posed to turn out in large numbers
to defeat Bush? Minorities and
youth voters tuiried out in greater
numbers than in 2000, but EVERY-
ONE turned out in greater numbers
than 2000 this year, especially white

they had done,
they would have won. But the truth
for even the most optimistic Demo-
crat is that this did not happen,
whether it’s because Kerry rather
than Clark won the primary, or be-
cause Karl Rove is simply smarter
than Mary Cahill. Per-

remains center—1eft. America is no
longer center-rightward, it is simply
rightward.

So what will happen in the next
four years? Obviously, things will
get done, with a convincingly Re-
publican Congress and an immod-
erate Republican president. Even
though the Republican victory was
hardly a landslide, 51 percent of
Americans will always beat 49 per-
cent of them. The only effort Re-
publicans will have to expend on
anything short of a Constitutional
Amendment will be to convince ﬁve
Democratic senators to stop poten-
tial Senate ﬁlibusters, something that
will not be difﬁcult. What plans does

for a constitutional amendment pro-
hibiting gay marriage, and do not
be surprised if the administration
tries to get more with the hand they
were dealt by trying to ban stem
cell research as well. Moves like
these will frirther please the “god,
guns, gays” voters, and will alien-
ate few Democratic voters who
were not already Bush—haters. Since
the Democrats are now powerless
to stop such initiatives, only the
conservative Supreme Court stands
between things like stem cell re-
search bans and the law books.
Constitutional law experts will be
waiting with bated breath to see the
results of such challenges. Speak-

priate, even if that means alienating
the United Nations and the many
world leaders who (reluctantly) con-
gratulated Bush on Nov. 3. Foreign
policy hawks would have it no other
way, of course. They will have to be
careful in the Muslim world, how-
ever. Even with a stable Iraq, many
Muslims who were on the fence
before will come down on the side
of the extreme anti—American fac-
tions if care is not taken to prevent
it. The administration cannot win
the war on terror if it is constantly
supplying the enemy with ieiriforce-
ments by alienating more and more
Muslims. Expect policy-towards Is-
rael and Palestine to become in-

creasingly irnpor—

haps it is be- tant, as well as any
cause the further action taken
“triad” of Re- in the Mideast and
publican fac— southwest Asia.
tions, the mod- Future trouble
erate social lib- spots (other than
erals/ﬁscal con- Iran) may actually
servatives like centerin East Asia,
Colin Powell or with China count-
John McCain, ing down until its
t h e ﬁnalreckoningwith
neoconservative I Taiwan, and with
hawks like North Korea’s
Condoleeza nuclear weapons
Rice and and the madman
D o n a l d dictator controlling
Rurnsfeld, and ‘them looming over
the evangelical everything. Ifthese
farrightists, like hot spots ﬂare up
John Ashcroft under the Bush ad-

(all with their
places in the
Bush cabinet,
please note),
were able to .
come together far better than the
Democrats, who are actually only
split into two factions (the moder-
ates, who currently dominate the
party, and the far left liberals, whose
numbers grow scant).

But any way you slice it, this
election is a disaster for the Demo-
crats and for the Bush—haters. Firstly,
any Democratthat speaks of an ille-
gitimate presidency now is ﬂat out
wrong. No President has won a ma-
jority of the popular vote since
George H.W. Bush defeated
Michael Dukakis, and the fact that
George W. Bush was as vulnerable
as any incumbent has ever been in
this election only makes it worse.
Moderate democrats have been
thrown out of Congress in large nurn—
bers, replaced by extremist Republi-
cansinmanycases,especiallyinthe
deep South. Moderate Republicans,
such as John McCain or Arnold
Schwarzenegger, will now be viewed
as relatively further to the left than
they were before. Indwd, the whole
country has conﬁrmed that it has
taken another step to the right rela-
tive to the rest of the world, which

the Bush administration have that
it will push in the next four years?
At home, social security will
likely be privatized. A controversial
issue before, the Bush adrr1ir1istra-
tion will take Red Tuesday as a man-
date to ﬁnally move Social Security

out of the public sector. Sharp dif-»

ference of opinion exists as to how
that will turn out. Tax cuts will con-
tinue, and certainly the tax cuts that

Voters who voted based on “values” ended up favoring Bush

[J/rota mu 9/ in

MISSION ACCOMPLISHED President Bush won over many Americans’ conﬁdence in the last four years.

ing of the Supreme Court,
Rehnquist, Scalia, Thomas, Souter,
and O’Connor may now breathe
easier knowing that conservative re-
placements await, should one of
them fall ill or retire, while,Kennedy,
Ginsburg, Breyer, and Stevens will
likely now try to hold on like grim
death.

In foreign policy, expect the
Bush administration to try to mend

by an 80°/0-20°/0 margin, where as margins on “issues,” i.e.
Iraq and the economy, were for Kerry 60%-40%.

occurred under the first four years
of Bush’s administration will not be
rolled back, another issue whose ef-
fects remain in question. Public
school funding will decrease as
Bush pushes for voucher programs
and privatization of education. But
more importantly, expect value—ori-
ented issues like gay marriage, stem
cell research, and church—state di-
vision to take center stage. The
Bush administration will push hard

fences where it can. Even if they
pronounce Red Tuesday as a suc-
cessful referendum on the Iraq war,
the Republicans know that support
for Iraq is ﬂagging at home and non-
existent abroad, and that someone
will have to share the economic and
manpower burden. Still, the
neoconservatives in the party will
have their ﬁnal say, and unilateral
action will be used wherever the
Bush administration feels it’s appro-

Government precedent exists for  
potential banning of abortions

' Looking over the election special of the Phi this week, some
phrases jumped out at me. “I think that women should be able to
decide what to do with their own bodies.” “I think women should
have reproductive rights to their own bodies.”  . . the battle over a
woman’s right to have possession over her own body.” If I didn’t
know any better I’d think that people were watching Oprah and taking
Cameron Diaz’s statement: “If you think rape '

should be legal, then don’t vote” seriously. Or
that the legalization of prostitution was a big
campaign issue. Those are issues that involve
possession, rights or decisions related to a

woman’s body. However, that is not what the
writers were ‘talking about. Unfortunately, the pro-choice movement
has been successful in summing up the abortion issue in the feel—good
euphemism: “a woman’s right to choose what to do with her own
body.” Sure, it sounds good, but what does it really mean?

First of all, there are many things the government does to
“take away” our control of our own bodies. Suicide is illegal. As is
drug use, prostitution, incest, public nudity, not wearing a seat belt
while driving, etc. So the argument that it’s your body, your choice
doesn’t always hold up under a court of law.

Second, I agree with the statement that women should be
able to decide what to do with their own bodies. Women should be
able to decide whether or not to use their bodies to have sex. Women
should be able to decide whether or not to use protection or birth
control on or in their bodies. But once a life is created, it is not just a
woman’s body that is at stake. There is another living body within her
body. If it were just her body, then her body has 4 eyes, 4 arms, 4 legs,
2 heart beats, 2 unique sets of human DNA, and in some cases, both a
vagina and a penis. If it were just her body, then we wouldn’t be able
to have test tube babies, in vitro fertilization, or surrogate mothers. If it
were just her body, then why can the mother die and the child live or

the child die and the mother live?

You can be pro-choice, but please, take the time to find out

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MoUTEvEL1s Q6_

What it really means. Abortion is still legal through ALL 9 months of
pregnancy. Do you agree with the right to choose to abort at over 6
months of pregnancy? Pro-choice groups like NOW, NARAL, and
Plarmed Parenthood oppose any restriction on abortion, even Partial
Birth Abortion, a gruesome practice that takes place in the later months of
pregnancy. Over 43 million abortions have been performed since 1973.
Do you think that all of these were done for medical

reasons? If not, do you agree with the right to choose
abortion for any reason? Did you know that the
frequently cited “health exception” has been
determined by the Supreme Court to mean that any

abortion, even Partial Birth Abortion, can be performed
not only to save the life of the mother, but also for physical or even

mental health reasons?

Do you stand with pro-choice groups on recent laws? Pro-
choice groups opposed the Unborn Victims of Violence Act, also known
as the Laci and Connor (Peterson) Law. This law acknowledges that
when a pregnant woman is murdered or when a pregnant woman is hurt
and the baby dies, there are two victims, not just one. Pro—choice groups
oppose parental notiﬁcation laws that require parents to be notiﬁed when
their minor is having an abortion, just like any other surgical procedure.
The laws provide for judicial bypass, where the restriction can be waved
if there is abuse or incest involved. Pro—choice groups oppose informed
consent laws that tell a woman about the abortion procedure she is to

have and what the risks are.

Take time to ﬁnd out where you stand on this issue. Don’t just
take my word, look up what Partial Birth Abortion is or find out what the
laws say for yourself. Odds are you aren’t just pro-choice or pro-life.
You’re pro-choice up until the ﬁrst trimester. Or pro-life except for rape,
incest, and life of the mother. Find out where your boundaries are and get
educated so you can defend your beliefs.

If you disagree with some of my statements, please contact me,
I invite the opportunity to have a respectful discussion on this topic.

You may also contact me if you have any other questions or comments.

 

ministration, there
will be trouble.
Bush will defend
Taiwan and press
. » North Korea, but
actual use of force remains unlikely,
as both China and North Korea
threaten retaliation with nuclear
weapons. Cuba could also become
a factor. If Fidel Castro dies, it is ex-
tremely likely that President Bush
will seize the opportunity and in-
vade in an attempt to restore an
America-friendly democratic gov-
ernment to the island in America’s
backyard. If that happens, the criti-

cal Cuban—American vote in

Florida will swing strongly Repub-

lican for decades to come.

Iraq itself remains unstable.
Much will hinge on whether sta-
bility “on the ground”ihas been
established by the elections the

Bush administration plans to conduct
in January. Ifso, the insurgent groups
will be marginalized, if they weren’t
already destroyed in the stabilization.
If not, the elections will be marred
it will be difﬁcult to foresee a stable
Iraqinthenearfutu1e,andtliusitwill
be difﬁcult to see any withdrawals of
U.S. troops in the near future either.
Permanent garrisons "such as those
in Africa, the 37th parallel on the

 

ate p II

North-South Korea border, and in
Yugoslavia and Bosnia, will have
to be established. The Bush
admir1istration’s worst—case sce-
nario is a legitimate election that
decides that Iraq should be a theo-
cratic republic based on Islam be-
fore democracy, as in Iran. While Iraq
is not an overriding factor, it has been
the test case for neoconservatives’
theories of forceful democratization
of anti-Arnerican orrogue world gov-
emriients, and failure here would por-
tend gloom for neoconservative poli-
cies.

What about the future? If Re-
publican fomme holds, much will
depend on who they nominate in
2008. They have two choices. First,
they may nominate a Bush-like ﬁg-
ure, someone squarely on the right
who will continue to make conces-
sions to socially conservative
America and make other decisions
similar to those of the Bush adminis-
tration. Altemately, they may nomi-
nate a moderate Republican, some-
one like McCain, though McCain
hirriselfwillbetooworn outby 2008,
most likely. Soon, a Constitutional
amendment will have to be consid-
ered that might give non-natural born
citizens the right to rim for President,
and if that happens, moderate Re-
publicans such as likely Senator-
Elect Mel Martinez of Florida and
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of Cali-
foniia might be good candidates. The
direction the Republicans take will be
critical, anarch-conservative will likely
divide the party and hand the Demo-
crats a golden opporumity as evan-
gelicalsocialoonservatives becorrieiri-
creasirigly marginalized On the other
hand, if a moderate Republican takes
over, the Republicans will likely con-
tinue their dominance.

The Democrats will be taking a
long, hard look at themselves over the
nextfouryeais. Theywillaskwhether
itistoolatetotakebackatleastsome
of white ProtestantAmerica Theywill
askhow theycanmoreeffectivelycor1-
trolwliatissuesareimportanttoAmeri-
canvoters.Theywillaskiftheywill
ever ﬁnd another candidate with the
charismapand aura of Bill Clinton. In
2008, eiqJectoneoftherisingnewmod-
erate Democrats to gain the nomina-
tiorr The old guard, like Gephardt and
(the now—out-of—a-job) Daschle will
fade. I-IillaryClintonwouldbeirian
exceIlentpositiontotakecornmarid,but
sheisnotelectable,asha1fthecountry
seeminglyalreadyhatesheronherper-
sonality alone, and when you add to
thatthefactthatshesawomaninan
era where gender equality has still not
beerireached,andClir1tonPartHmakes
no sense. More likely is an up-and-

oorrierhl<eSenat<x—l3ectBarack()barna ,

oflllinois,orKenSalazarofColorado.
All iriall, itwill be an interesting
four years, to say the least

Yes
96%

Phi Quick Poll

“Have you, during your time at Washington and Lee
University, broken a Commonwealth of Virginia law
dealing with alcohol?”

 

This poll has 95% confidence in a +/— 5%
margin of error. Polls are ‘taken using a simple
random sample from the University directory of

all undergraduate students. '

No . 
4%

 

  

MONDAY, NOVERMlg3ER,§, 2004 .

x

  

 

Fans’ hopes too high

Redskins have placed too much faith in ,Gibbs, Poltis

BY RYAN GRITTER
SENIOR SPORTS W RITEP.

I think the Washington Redskins
may actually be my favorite team in the
NFL to watch this year. Before you get
any false ideas about my loyalties or
judgment, allow me to explain.

I enjoy watching the Redskins be-
cause of all youobnoxious Skins fans
out there. In the same way that Liberals
and Democrats on this campus are
pushed to more and more passionate
hatred of the right, so am I pushed by
your asinine predictions. Of course,
these feelings have not developed in
one off season of stupidity. Oh no, this
has been fostered over the last five
years.

Every single year, they have a whole
new roster of expensive stars, often even
a new_coach, and yet they never win.
When they added Michael Barrow and
Jeremiah Trotter that was supposedly
their year, but after a disappointing sea-
son they then placed their hope in Steve
Spurrier... which led to more sucking.

So now it’s Joe Gibbs and Clinton
Portis, and it still amounts to nothing.
Last year, their fans were certain that Joe

Lane leads equestrian tea

PH()T() C()L'R'1‘lZSY or-’ CAri'i.1_\' L.-\T\‘li

Gibbs would lead them to the promised
land again, to the point where the phrase
“greatest coach of all time” was thrown
around ....... . .please.

While the greatest coach in history
is a matter of opinion, there is such a
thing as a stupid opinion stemming from
blind optimism. The case for Bill Parcells,
for instance, is far more convincing. The

_ man goes franchises that are in dire
straits, and turns them into a competitor
within a couple years. He’s done it four
times now. I

What Skins’ fans need is a good
dose of realism. When the Dolphins lost
Ricky, I didn’t pretend that we were go-
ing to be good. I didn’t speak of A.J.
Feeley as the man that would make up
for it either. Signing a bunch of big names
doesn’t mean immediate contention. If
your team is already solid and you sign
a big name or two to fill a weakness, then
you can start predicting (see Eagles —
TO and Patriots — Dillon).

The Redskins weakness was stop-
ping the run, and by weakness, I mean
weakER than the rest of their crappy
team. What did they do to address this
problem? They changed starting comers,
brought in. a halfback from the Broncos
(never a good idea, stats are so inﬂated),
and signed an old quarterback who was

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

~The Washington and Lee riding
team established itself as a regional pow-
erhouse with a strong showing in the
two Invitationals that they competed in
last weekend. They placed second at
the Lynchburg Invitational and tied for
fourth at the Hollins Invitational.
Although every member of the
team performed well, junior Caitlin Lane
dominated the meet with a first place fin-
ish in the open fences at Lynchburg and
in the open ﬂat at Hollins.

The daughter of a professional
horseman, Lane grew up on a horse farm
in Poolesville, Maryland. She began
riding as soon as she could sit in a
saddle. As a child, she won Grand Charn—
pion Pony Hunter and was named the
Best Child Rider. She continued to show

never that great even in his prime, and
then placed their hopes in Joe Gibbs to

bring it together.

Then, they completely toss aside
Patrick Ramsey, who had a very im-
pressive rookie season and a
solid sophomore effort. If you
draft a quarterback in the
first round, and he starts
half the season with a rat-
ing over 70, you’ve got
something to build
around.

He clearly has the ability to be an
effective NFL quarterback, but has
lacked the protection. His decision
making is questionable, but that is
exactly what you need to develop
in a young quarterback with his tal-
ents. Awareness is one thing that
most definitely increases with age
in a quarterback. Protection also
helps this problem, and once
again, they did nothing to over-
haul their pathetic offensive
line. '

So at this point you

,may be asking, “So
why do you enjoy
W a t c h i n g

t h e m ? ”

H e r e ’ s

horses competitively through high
school and placed within the top six na-
tionally.

The horses that she shows in indi-
vidual competitions are Dexter and Lo-
gan, both warmbloods who live at her
home in Leesburg. “You work a lot train-
ing your horse and perfecting the con-
nection between you and your horse”
said Lane.

In college competition, the rules for
showing are very different. “In college,
you compete by getting on a random
horse that you draw out of a hat and just
get on — no practicing” said Lane, “in-
tercollegiate riding can often come down
to luck in what horse you draw.”

At Washington and Lee, Lane was
named ODAC Rider of the Year in both
her freshman and sophomore years. She
had been team MVP both years, and last
year placed fourth in Nationals in the
open ﬂat.

The discipline in which the W&L

    

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

EMILY HLlI.Ii.\‘ /
.f'1‘,ir«r<‘ 1114 .r_i'ri<A '1 my

why: they are the
‘only team I’ve
watched that
screw up so con-
sistently. They
have horrible
. coaching, and it
shows. It’s like watching
a really talented high school
team play the less talented but bet-
ter coached teams. It’s embarrassing
for them, and I bask in it as I think back
and reflect on all the bravado of
Washington’s fans from last year.
So what’s the solution for this dis-
mal team? Besides getting rid of Snyder,

who is a cross between Mark Cuban and

George Steinbrenner minus the success,
they need to remember that building a
team starts at the line of scrimmage.

If the Broncos have taught us any-
thing it’s that skilled position players
don’t have to be exceptionally skilled if
the line is strong. They need to strip
down some of the expensive talent and
start anew with the o—line and d-line.

I’m reminded of the Bible story of
building one’s house on solid ground
rather than sand. The Redskin’s impres-
sive roster of stars has no foundation
with the fat boys, and until they do I will
continue to laugh at them and scoff at
ignorant fans.

riding team competes is Hunters and
Jumpers, which includes events such as
the open ﬂat and open fences. The ﬂat
involves ﬂatwork such as trotting and
cantering, while the fences require navi-
gating a course of jumps. “They are
both basically just a test of you making
your horse do what you want and doing
it smoothly,” explains Lane. She prefers
the fences as they are more challenging
and diverse.

The team’s goal for the year is to be
in the top two in the region. In order to
advance, the team must take first in the
region, which is not out of the range of
the talented riding team. “The team has
been growing and improving through-
out the past few years,” said Lane,
“Hollins is currently first and we defi-
nitely have the talent on our team to beat
them.”

Personally, Caitlin Lane hopes to
advance to Nationals and do well there.
In order to qualify, a rider must gain a

III at Lynchburg, Hollins

certain number of points throughout the
year, and Lane is well on her way to ac-
complishing this goal. In the winter,
Lane will begin to show her horses at
individual competitions.

One of the beneﬁts of growing up

' on a horse farm is that she had the op-

portunity to ride and show many differ-
ent horses. This is especially an advan-
tage in collegiate competition as the rider
has no time to practice with the horse
she is assigned. Riding has become al-
most a second nature to her since it has
been such an important part of her life
for so many years.

After college,‘Lane plans to con-
tinue be in. “I hope to have horses
somehow for the rest of my life, whether
I go pro or just stay amateur,” said Lane,
“Riding is something that I’ve always
done and love doing.”

  Tuesday

Wednesday ,

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa
Rica. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!

Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
endlesssummertourscom

 Week in 

9 Field Hockey ’ ° M Soccer ‘ Open
at Lynchbur --4:30 at Emory and Henry--4
' W’ Soccer vs. Ilolliris-—4:30

Thursday

° Volleyball at

I Fdday

Emory Invitatiorial——4:30
° Field Hockey at
Eastern Merinoriite——5:30

Saturday

° W Soccer at

Virginia Wesleyan-ll

° Volleyball at Emory
Invitational--2

° Football at Cerm-e—1:30
' M Soccer at

Hampden Sydney--ll

Sunday 1

' W Soccer at Chowan—-l

 

 

   
  
  

  ~i0!;'='«o~a@!

§.,'2£,3LL_,€:£a-E 9-es?

{lays/Night
Lift ‘tickets
Condo lcdgtiig
Serious Nightlife

JANUARY

 
 

1S':PF'3lNC.:BRE;AK,

  
 

 

snoweonnn

PERT‘?

  
   
 
   
 
 
 

 
 

..Wﬂ8h vour hands!  

,_l

T

  

‘ www.ststravel.com.

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or

‘ Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party
Cruise!

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTrave|.com
1-800-678-6386

  

 

 

   

 

 

        

 

 

          

 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  

     

 

    
   
   
  
 
    
  
   
  

  

      

     

  

PAGE 6  MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004
  V 11  11 *
streak ~
0
. . 1’
STORY COURTESY
SPORTS INFORMATION
. The Washington and Lee volley- it
ball team claimed its fourth straight
ODAC Championship with 3-0 wins
over Virginia Wesleyan and
Randolph—Macon on Saturday after- J.
noon at Guilford College. The Gener-
als defeated VWC in the semiﬁnals,
30-23, 30-23, 30-13, before downing
Randolph—Macon in the champion-
aék .. . ship match, 30-28, 30-13, 30-25. ’*
- ‘ SAHAR Kl\MALl / R1N(;.Trri\1 PHI With the wins, W&L has now
Sophomore Colton Ward runs in for a touchdown during the first half. Claimed Seven Ofthe1aSteight0DAC
_ ' V Championships and is riding a 54-
* O O I 0 match winning streak against ODAC ,_
' In the win over the Marlins (19-
Genera eat E lI’l mal mmute   °“’°““‘“‘
’ 8), W&L was led by senior outside
- - - - - - running back Thomas Hubka (San Di— two passes for 36 yards and the winning hitter Emily Wolﬁng (Mt. Airy, Md./
Team ends With 4  Wins for first time Since  ego, Calif./St. Augustine) on the first touchdown. Seniorlinebacker Lloyd Wll- South Carroll), who had 15 kills, 13 it
‘ possession of the second half, but the son (Austin, Texas/Stephen F. Austin) digs and six aces, Junior right side
STORY COURTESY several tackles on his way to the end Wasps then assumed a 20-18 lead on a led the defense with 11 tackles and two Laura Byrne (Springﬁeld, Pa./Merion
SPORTS INFO TION zone, 7—yard scoring strike from Woods to fumble recoveries. The Generals had Mercy Aeaderny) posted 10 kills and
, The wasps (3-6, 2-3) opened the sophomore wide receiver Brennan three more sacks, settingaschool record 13 digs, while senior libero Jennifer J?
scoring on _a 1-yard touchdown run by SteWart (ShaWSVi11e, Va./Eastern M0nt- for sacks in a Seas0n (37). Lux (Virginia Beach, Va./Cox) had a
Junior tailback‘ Michael Lackett sophomore quarterback Todd Woods gomery) With 7352 left in the third q1laI- E&H Was led by W00ds, Who C0n1- season—high 27 digs. Junior setter
(Allenwood, N .J ./Wall) took a screen (Radford, Va./Radford) at the 9:27 mark ter~ pleted 24-Of-41 passes for 307 yards and Christine Gladysz (Palm Harbor, F1a./
pass 30 yards for a touchdown with 32 of the first quarter, The extra-point was W&L had an opportunity to take one touchdown. He was intercepted Berkeley Prep) added 47 assists, nine
seconds remaining to lift the Washing- no good, the lead on a 25-yard ﬁeld goal by sopho— once, breaking a school—record string of digs and four blocks, "1
ton and Lee football team to a 24-20 win W&L tied the game at 6-6 with 12:33 more plaeekieker Ben Long (Frankford, 200 passes Without an interception. In the victory over R—MC (21-15),
over Emory & Henry on Saturday after- remaining in the first half as Tweardy W-Va./Hargraye Military) With 2;33 re- Stewart caught eight passes‘ for 133 the Generals were paced by Byme’s
noon at Wilson Field. The victory gives found Ward on a 43-yard scoring strike. maining in the game, but the kick sailed yards and one touchdown. while sopho— 16 kills and 14 digs. Wolﬁng tallied 16
W&L four ODAC wins for the first time The extra point was also no good wide left." The Generals defense then more wide receiver Jerad Jackson (Big kills and eight digs, and junior middle 1
since the 1985 season. ‘ Woods scored again on a 1—yard forced the E&H punt setting up the win- Stone Gap, Va./Powell Valley) snared blocker Susan Gaillard (Charleston,
After forcinganE&H punt, the Gen- touchdown run with 8:13 remaining in ning driVe. eight halls f0r 113 yards, his ﬁfth-straight S.C./Porter-Gaud) had 14 kills. Lux
erals (5-4, 4-2) started the game—winr1ing the second quarter, but the Generals re- Tweardy led the W&L offense by game with 100 yards receiving. Junior added 19 digs, while Gladysz amassed
drive on their own 44-yardline with 59 taliated on a 9—yard pass from Tweardy Completing 21-Of-37 passes f0raCareer- linebacker Anthony Boyd 51 assists and 16 digs.
seconds remaining. Junior quarterback to junior wide-out Clark Kensinger (Co— high 275 yards and three t0UChd0Wns- (Christiansburg, Va./Christiansburg) led Byrne, Gaillard, Gladysz and 1!-
Greg Tweardy (Bethel Park, Pa./Bethel lumbia, S.CJOakwo0d) with 4:55 remain- His 21 completions give him 186 for the the defense with seven tackles and a half Wolﬁng were all named to the al1—tour.
Park) started the drive with a pair of ing in the half. The extra point again seas0n,aneW W&LreC0rd. Ward caught SaCl<- nament team, with Gladysz claiming
completions to sophomore wide receiver failed and the Wasps had a 13-12 lead siX passes for 101 yards and a touch- Washington and Lee finishes its tournament MVP honors.
Colton Ward (Charlotte, N .C./Charlotte going into halftime, down, while Hubka rushed four times season on Saturday at Greensboro Col- W&L will now wait to find out *1
Country Day) totaling 26 yards, then The Generals tookan 18-13 lead on f0r 57 yards and a touchdown. Lackett lege. The game begins at 1:00 pm. who and where they will be playing
ﬂipped the screen to Lackett who broke a 50-yard touchdown run by freshman rushed 12 times for 58 yards and caught in the NCAA Tournament.
     
,  , V  W_&LWomen’sSwnnrrungDefeats
" to Vrginia Wesleyan, 2.9 (1116)  1 at JNIU/Bcytnvite (1116) V Randolph-Macon,
 ’ '1 .. . . . I I . * 5 ‘ 1; ’ I , A 132-130 (11/5)
. , The fhird~seeded» Washington and , The W&L t°3mP13°3d £933“ .
it . ._.Lee,vﬁeld hockey team iost a 2-0  .. of nine teams at the }MUl . The Washington and Lee women’s *
A .  , decision“, Sgcon3._s¢3d¢dv,rghna  Bridgewater In”vitationa1“on Satur- 1 swimming team opened up ‘its
third , . W‘esleyaninan.ODACToo‘rnainent V day. The Generals were ted by ODAC schedule witha 132-130 vic-
‘Leey , Ly_,.scmifi'na} game 0;y',.3aﬁ1§éay’  sophomoreCaitiin1.ane(Leesburg, V tory over Randolph-Macon College
terry’ ‘.7 '1  Lynchlﬁtirglflolleige. , ' I  ‘ Va./Pooiesville (M60). Wholplaced on Friday evening at Twombley ‘
1,  ‘ ' I 7  ‘ I ' ' . 7 ' g 5 ﬁrst  the open fences and open Pool. 4 1 «
-  ..  . . .» ._ iﬁtjneniv. 1 ' ‘ f*a*eY¢'1‘Sn
 .  -saw 0   sates am I I          1
*  " ’nodnatLync1ibt_3tgv.Co¥1ege A .
$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus    .. .    .—.  ..  _ 1,,
4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free V _ . . ‘
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS I ’ 5, ,,,,, , ?_,_  h , __  _, _
$1O0Q_$20O0 in earnings for. Your group , _ . . I A §l§l‘l5  E788 ﬁiilﬁ Eéﬁﬁiﬁﬁrlﬁllili
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you .- I i335‘3i*5ii5‘il3§§l§*-1&3i135§ié°= ' s
schedule your non—sales fundraiser with  pg Kg _§g,_,V W, W 9,. ,,§Lr,?,Mg,;:,§.§; my gm ,3 w§,,,m3?j_,§, ,, 3
- V ..,  i . .3; ea   22, E -1.3. 3.2  9  .2:-.. "5  ‘ » z  : --- ~
CarnPLlsFundrcuser. Contact Campus _, it 2 i =2 4; hi ' 5 ii ‘I ‘ ‘ " ’& ‘ _
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
I _ .  y ‘X . _ . ,, §°‘‘.r':2;>::« as :;é':s;sh
. .
R
’   Standard ,
, ‘ f leﬁilfféﬁvlﬂﬁltldfﬁz ~
Orchardside Yarn Shop : _ , ., ) ,, y , , 4 . .
Km-,,g spew, 51",, Do  lélfmsit honest" L8 stereo nah sir. sneakers, tsngurizng has -’
273Raphine Road smethin ’ ' theaters and Estes Eeistld titan.‘ ’~1.’:2E§”r§.i £38; tease-is and .31?-’l
Raphine, VA 24472 g "V§i%E:;li.§l.iI§ reads .9 air i::;z%:z3%:§:::ae= .9 Ilhixica el liitztié errata: :':r:so::r
5“”"’5”°' ‘‘'"'’'“"'Y’‘“” for - ‘ ziasésas ,9 satin-tori: mites 5 F’€?.t€Ei’ isiadotis. *  -tress, an
Knitting cottage nestled alongthecreek ,;,  ‘» I ~_.?’  =»  3'3 _§e’T-__  .2 ,5 ~ ’  §~§;,-i '
which mm mm semmoﬂmic Someone V éiiiistiie rriitrors 5 gear, h.,tts .reae ienstsrari nine 1 3 ,
and novelty yams, kits, needles and , I
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and e 
Internet accessibility made easy.
Calif workshopdzdsslnfonnatlon.  7
or
. week.
Halfway belween Leringlon and Slaunlon '
Onl-81/l—64a1exiI205.RapIIine.4miIe:wex1on ’
Route 606. Raphine RM /Mr/in a working
farm that offers "U~PlCK” opportunities for fresh h
' fruit when in season.
‘ I1ies-Satl0:00-5:00,Wedunﬂl8:00 ‘“
mwxmhmm
 . . . . ._ it

 

W8: LIFE

/

FMLYEDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
EMAII.-EI)rrAiiosrI»r@orIIIn)IJ

PAGE 7

Crunk sings praises of frat bands, other free music

The bands. The music. Think about it.
Where else in the world and at what other point

, in your life will you be able to see anywhere from

2-4 (plus) bands per week? (For free, I might add.)
When you leave college, in order to see a band
play, you will typically have to go to a restau-
rant, formal parties, or a concert.

At a restaurant, you can’t just go and sit
there to listen to the band. You have to buy food
and drinks in order to stay there long enough to
hear the band play more than one minute of
C 1 a p t o n ’ s
“Wonderful
Tonight” (if
it’s a nice
_«_*__T_ place). At a
formal party, you may have had to buy tickets to
get in — and then you and your wife/husband
can dance all night to the band (but remember,
you paid a fee).

Concerts are in the same boat — and they’re
getting more expensive every day. Look, 1 un-
derstand that when W&L brings in a big—name
band, they make you buy tickets. But let’s be
honest — we all swipe it home to our parents any-
way. So, to us, it’s completely free. What I am
saying here is that when you, go to a party here
and a band is playing, you don’t have to do any-
thing at all in order to stay. You don’t pay to get
in. You don’t need to buy food or drinks — even
a beer or five are all free. If you wanted to, you
could just go to hear the band — dance the night

GET CRUNK
BLAIR CRUNK

VACO! The Virginia Coalition comes to campus frequently. In the real world, you will have to pay to see

these fine frat bands perform.

away or stand there next to the stage and chill
out. It’s up to you — and I think that bands here
are beautifully underrated.

The other side of this comes from the view-
points of the bands who play here at W&L. My

be into it. Here at W&L, you can’t go to a band
party and have the crowd be sparse. It is inher-
ently crowded and congested — that’s just a

given.

The bands love it when college kids scream
at the top of their lungs and plead for “Sweet
Home A1abamahhhh!” — instead of the owner
of the bar coming over to them and saying, “Hey,
would you guys mind turning the speakers
down just a tad? That would be great.” You tell
me which one of these comments you’d rather

get.

On a side note, I have to continue to com-
pliment the GAB. As if bringing in Keller Will-
iams wasn’t enough, the GAB is planning on
bringing either The Ataris, Pat McGee Bandl
Better Than Ezra, or Bone Thugs N’ Harmony
for Chrismas Weekend — as dictated by student
votes. T hat’s right — student Votes.

If you haven’t heard yet, "the GAB has a
survey on Blackboard and you have until noon
on Tuesday, November 9”‘ to vote. So, vote or
die (or whatever" P. Diddy says). They will an-
nounce the winning band shortly after the sur-

vey closes. Stay tuned for that. ‘
In the meantime, enjoy the bands and the

music scene here at W&L while you’re here.

bet would be that these bands would much rather
play for a group of dancing, sweaty, rowdy col-
lege kids than at a bar where no one is listening
but instead only trying to yell to their friends over
the loud music. They clearly want the crowd to

But don’t worry, you’ll still be able to come back
for Homecoming after you graduate. And maybe
even Parents’ Weekend. . .so that you can dance
like fools at frat parties if your son/daughter
comes to W&L.

W&L Bookstore Presents...

Student Book

of the Week

A weekly feature of the Bookstore and the Ring—Tum Phi

This week :

Paris Hilton has a lifestyle most girls dream about.
Her name is on everyone’s lips -- but can she help it
if she was born rich and privileged? Now, with a sly
sense of humor and a big Wink at her media image,
Paris lets you in for a sneak peek at the life of a real,
live heiressfmodel/actressfsinger/it-girl and tells you
how anyone can live a fairy-talelife like hers. Choc
‘full of entertaining lists, like Paris's twenty-three
rules for How to Be an Heiress, and hundreds of
S glossy pictures.

Regular price: $22.00
This Week: $1899

Editor obsesses over Orange County

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTs& LIFE EDITOR

Okay, I’ll admit it. When
Ryan Atwood opened the door
to the Cohen’s poolhouse on
The OC season opener last
Thursday, I felt as though I had
been reunited with a long—lost
friend. N o joke, I had been fret-
ting and stewing over whether
Ryan would stay with the preg-
nant Theresa or stay in New-
port.

It sounds crazy, but I have
never liked a television show
as much as Ihave liked The OC.
But what on earth is its appeal?
It’s as scandalous as Melrose
Place and has more teen angst
than Dawson ’s Creek could
ever have. My mother even
watches the silly show. Of
course, she loves Nip/Tuck, but
that’s beside the point.

My freshmen hall bonded

Cooper’s drunken escapades
and laughed as Luke peeled out
of driveways in his pickup truck
more suited for an Arkansas
hunting compound. If someone
was not going
to be around for
the Wednesday
night time spot,
we watched the
show on tape as
a group.

I can be
having a horrific
day in which
everything that
could go has
gone wrong,
and then I
watch my help-
ing of teen
angst. I can’t say that my
mother has had an affair with
my ex—boyfriend, nor can I say
that I have stolen a car or swal-
lowed a handful of pills with a

Sometimes I wonder what
kind of lives the writers of The OC
lead. They never fail to provide a
truckload of drama in the mere TV
hour that I schedule in my

datebook.

If the
season opener
is any indicator
of how dramatic
this second sea-
son will be, put
me on the wait-
ing list for the
Season 2 DVD.
The “Level 4
Meltdown” of
Marissa put me
in stitches. I
mean, who

screams like a banshee and throws
patio furniture into the pool when
they are angry at their mother?

So Thursdays, from 8-9 pm,
you know where to find me. I’ll be

IBHBSIIIIIBII S llll‘ all

TIiurstlav.llov.1_1. 8 |I.m. Elrotl commons
Illlillﬂ
_ l:_am us and community members are
ininte to nerlorm music. noetnr and more
cash nrizes [or toll ertormers and

listen live on 91.5 ml or |Ittn:Ilvrlur.wIu.etlu

sion on III! e mailintl IIarkstla|etI@vllu.etlu

as we watched Marissa bomeoftequija,

What if you had a

in front of my TV.
Do not disturb.

second

chance with the one that got away?

Commons Theater Shows Brilliant Indie Sequel this coming week

I have literally been waiting for months to see
director Richard Linklater’s ﬁlm Before Sunset. We
don’t get movies like that in Rome, GA, and the
Lexington Blockbuster will probably have it in
sometime after
Chistrrm . rmybe
So, I was
thrilled to hear
that the Film __
Society was playing it in the Commons.

The ﬁlm is the sequel to l994’s Before Sun-

rise, which also starred Ethan Hawke and Julie
Delpy as two people who
meet on a train from
Budapest to Vienna, fall ri-
diculously in love, and agree
to meet six months later. Be-
fore Sunset catches up with
Celine and Jessie nine years
later and explores the possi-
bility of rediscovering love.

Before Sunset manages
to achieve a couple of really
difficult things effortlessly.
First of all, I realized as I was
leaving the theater that I had
just listened to 30 minutes of
dialogue and not been bored
for a second. Hawke, Delpy,
and Linklater have written a _
script that focuses so in-
tensely on the two protago-
nists that other characters are
inconsequential, and, some-
how, it does not lose its mo-
mentum.

Maybe it’s because. the

‘script is so well-written.

I Maybe it’s because Julie Delpy is so sponta-
neously cute. I could not help but cry/srnile/be-
come intensely jealous when she played her song,
“A Waltz for a Night”——and you will too. She is an

BEYOND HOLLYIIIDE
ELYSE Mooor

izii z;2.=-I: § §.m.$l«’«:.-

13(.%‘f< '}i"{f: -
"S’l__£I‘lfS(.."l'

extremely talented musician and adorable, plus the
song is perfect for the moment in the film where she
bravely puts it out there.

Maybe it’s Ethan Hawke. I don’t know; at any
rate, it is amazing that the movie moves along
seamlessly with such a tight focus.

Also, it manages to work in an enormous
amount of the Parisian cityscape by having Celine
and Jessie walk through its narrow streets, explore
gardens, and visit little cafes. There is a beautiful
shot of Notre Dame Cathedral from their perspec-
tive on a boat on the Seine.

The most in-
credible feat of all, I
thought, was that the
movie manages to
present a successful
sequel to what was al-
ready an impossibly
romantic film without
being sappy or sug-
ary-nostalgic at all. It
makes you think that
it could actually be
possible to meet some-
one for what both char-
acters admittedly call
a “one night stand”-
in a foreign country,
nonetheless-—and
never forget them. It
even makes rediscov-
ering this love almost
a decade later seem
feasible. Before Sun-
"set reminds you to be
honest, to realize that
the connections you make with otheqieople are
invaluable and precious, and to take advantage of
life every minute that you’ve got it. As Hawke says,
“I guess you’re never done making memories, as
long as you’re living.”

EiwLYEDwARus
AKIS&LlFEEDl’Il0R ,

mm m

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2004

  

Tl4l.l31Plll i

THE AST ORD  

Marshmallow Rule weighs in on Parents’ Weekend and Election 2004

PAGE 8

 

 

 

   

-Tjjrl criticized me in front of my friends for being too fat, needing It only goes downhill from Parent’s Weekend, but maybe :
OTATO a haircut, and wearing slippers to Applebee’s, she can fit right if I’m lucky, my mom will come back next year and let me play
MARSHALL RULE in at W&L. Beirut with her. But I’ll make sure to practice until then.
There were moments of the weekend that I had wished
she would just go home, like when I got the lecture about my .1
Marshaﬂis rampage  Young Democrats room being a disaster (she should have seen it two weeks
ago).

Pd like to Start offthis Week by giving “props” to Senator . And when she told everyone what my nickname was in
Mike Crapo of Idaho_ He beat his opponent’ Sc0ttMcC1ure, high school, I almost killed her. Yes for the record it was
like a red headed step child thatjust committed an honor vio- Marshmallow’ and no’ 1'
lation. Crapo won by more percentage than Saddam won his 3'0“ may not ea“ me
elections. Chalk up a point for Republicans everywhere. M h H k that‘

I almost felt bad for Kerry and the College Democrats ars 3 > you Suc She brdke m°St the
Tuesday. They really thought they had a chance. But then I POTA'[t)MAN’§MOM, Eules I laled fgzsnénbuﬁ i.
realized that they stole a keg from the Tuesday Night Election .0 or fom
Party and that they deserved everything they got. ONZMARSHALLSBEIRUHMLY Ween t mad or angry

Only a Democrat would steal a keg because there are too _ ‘mm She took me to
many Republicans at the party. You would think they would Wa1'Mart t°_get a helreut‘ _ _ _
be accustomed to being the minority by now. That’s alright _ She earned me In beer P 011$ and eve? emlelzed my tech" '
though; Republicans got the last laugh Wednesday afternoon mque 3:: blgnfled me f°rk1e,anX;tg' It thmkther eimet {Verde
when Kerry gave his concession Speech‘ were,‘ ars a , you suc . er wo no -so—c ose losses

For a While the Dems even thought they had Won the keg_ she ditched me for a new teammate, and to rub salt in the
off. But once again they were declared losers after it had w°und’P1eked a freshman to replace me‘ iv
been learned that a few Republicans started playing Beer Pong Llke alweys’ everyone {Iked he? more than they hke me’
two hours before the party was supposed to start, -and drank and kept askmg why I_WaSn t e001 hke her‘ _ .
the Democrat Keg on accident (sorry about that by the way). Fer a_m°m the? Fhlnke I have no Structure In _my hfe’ no

We Republicans may not be the brightest, but we,“ Still organizational abilities, and am incapable of taking care of
the majority.It has really been a bad week for you Democrats, myself’ She ,WaS able _to, get through the Weekend Wlthout 1'
but look at the bright side, there’s always 2008 with your be- Wandng ‘° k1“‘“° f°‘1“”"3Fh° f‘aT1‘f°S‘Y1“~ ‘
loved Hiharv _ On the other hand she didn’t give me any money, so the . yo

weekend wasn’t as productive as I had hoped.
Marshallls recount of Parents’  But, like all good things, Parent’s Weekend too must come PHOTO COURmSY  ,‘
to an end. In a weekend where two mothers (neither of ‘which Mhnsnmhhnow RULE The potato Man cleverly thought he Could hoop

Well, how that yvo done my Liberal hashing for the day, Wns lnlnea thank G051) Went On the, Stage and Started grlndlng his high school nick nameasecret. Well...his mother told Washington&

I guess I’ll move on to what really made this week special... with each °t_her’ and one Sketchy father waseanemg m_u°_h 1466- ThatwasOne0113116m9~nyh3PPYCxPCr1¢n°C5Maf5h111Sh”-‘°dW1th
Pal-enfs weokond or as I like to refer to it, payday wookohd_ loo P1'0V0°al1Ve1Y Wlth 1115 daughter: We Can‘ ﬁnally Say» ll 15 his mom over Parent’s Weekend. Be sure to comment on his fabulous,
I have a new found respect for my mom. Even though she ever‘ n‘=WW9-1-Maf'~'h3ifCut- 1‘
o o ,
Kristine mourns loss of Mr. Dell Lap Top, falls for Mr. Mac .
T 1) Spend countless hours on I stole envious glances at my roommates, my brain cells,
HE M1LK AND CHEESE G1RL thefacebook.com. (See last week’s article.) curled up in front of their computer screens, Yes, folks, it is a sad and pathetic life. How- ,
KRISHNE EARLY 2) Check away messages. happily exploring the World Wide Web. ever,'soon the pain and anguish will come to
3) Write witty away messages (This takes up One would think that I would find some- an end, Today I ordered a Mac_
significant time, believe me. Haha, no, my wit—_ thing worthwhile to do with all this free Yes, You heard me right, 1 ordereda Mac_

At approximately 2:00 pm on Sunday, N o- liness is 3 natural gift.) time. _ Do I feel dirty? Honestly, yes, just a little.
vembei 2, he starred inbaning His breathing 4) Drunken instant message people from high Maybe I could spend an extra hour in I was once a hardcore PC fan, too. My world ‘
starred to grow heavy and 1abbi¢d_ I knew school that I haven’t talked to for two years: the Science Library. Maybe I could get ahead was dominated by Microsoft Windows:
something was wrong He hadn’r been very “Heyyyy ther I alvays gthot u were cute do on my work. Nah. That is too much to ask. PowerPoint,
beauby 1ar¢1y, but 1 had nevbi seen him iike uo still hav a ggf? Instead, I have found new exciting ways to ,, . 3 W o r k s ,
this before. By 2:30 pm, he was in a coma. 5) Cnﬁck Iny 6‘n1ai1 eyely fly‘? n1inl1t€S- entertain myself DO I feel d1rty'htIt_lIOfeSdy’ Word... But is

I hate to be the one to break the news 6) Df00l '  ' YCS, 1113i 21 6 there comes
folks, but Mr. Dell Lab Top is now out of com- 0 V 9 F 301115 Of THEZWHKAND CREE”; GIRL a time in life
mission. (Okay, honestly, Ijust named him. Be- 0 1 0 I 11 C 5 my latest When you
fore he was always “that *@"%&@# com- that 1 W111 activities have to ad-
puter,” but Iihear it is uncouth to speak ill of “Wei be inclildci mit the errors of your way. After an ill func- ‘
the dead.) ablﬁ l0 af- 1) Nap- tioning Dell, a wreck of an IBM, a cursed HP,

Yes, it is a sad situation, indeed. And one f°ld- _ Ping (T118 and a craptastic (my own word— I’m just like
that is going to once again indebt me to the 7) Keep 11105‘ C-ff1' Shakespeare-) Gateway—in fact, the “Gateway
gods that be at the credit card company. "UP On the Cieni Way to hel1”—I am swearing off PCs for good. ,.

There’s a saying: You never know what I16WS- Fill I0 P385 Somewhere, in afactory far far away (in a
you have until you’ve lost it, And, oh, how I n1¢ln1Wh0 liIn€- Very galaxy.... Ah, I don’t want to admit I know that
underappreciated Al Gore’s contribution to d i (1 leJl1V9n3l' quotel), Someone is putting the final touches
society (Haha, as if Al Gore has the brains!). 13 F 1 t n 6 y ing- C0ln€S on my iBook. I couldn’t be more thrilled.

Indeed, the Internet is the best thing since 3 P C 3 T 5 highly f€C- No more random crashes. No more “Dell, '
sliced bread (and Jell—o molds). marry last 0 m - Updates.” Yes, you better believe Macs are far

Truthfully, I still have relatively easy ac— Week? mended-) superior machines.
cess to the network. My room is down the hall 8) Look A For example, with PCS you have to be con-
from the Gaines computer 13b (Don’t stalk me, up song lyrics and search for quotes on asi- 2) Music-listening “sessions” stantly on guard, for fear of attack from any I
p153Se)_ nine topics. ' 3) Watching re—runs Of Dawson’s Creek and one of a number of new viruses, No one cares

However, walking those extra 100 feet can 9) One word: Google. Saved by the Bell (Mark Paul Gosselaar used enough about Macs to even try to mess wirh
be pretty taxing. For crying out loud, it re- These activities generally take up a size— to be such a hottiel). rnom_ '
quires ‘putting on shoes! So, basically, my life able Pall 01 my day 30. naturally my first 4) Calling “P 3V€Ty0n€ and any0n6 1 l1aV€ Plus, I am excited that my new lab top will
has become empty and unfulfilling. twenty-four ll011l'S Without the Internet, 1 6V6r II16t“jl1Sttotall<” have wireless capabilities. Now I can waste 19

wirnour easy access to the Inrbrner I didn’t know what to do with myself. I wan— 5) Reading my roommate’s Cosmo magazines time anywhere_ After 1 take my nap,
can’t: dered around my suite, a lost and lonely soul. and slowly stripping away my innocence and

is
(D Let’s 'all take a moment to congratulate our new (I) The Greek system is going to die, and no one (I3 Side note: Parents Weekend was awesome TW&L
president, Ralph Nader. cares. really knows how to make tuition payers feel appre-
‘ ciated.
11> ‘Taylor Hanson needs a haircut’, eh? Ma be (I3 Congratulations to the newest ODAC champi- _
Y .
he can use your razor-sharp wit. Possibly style it ons on campus, the men’s and women’s cross (I) Who would the south elect first as president? A g.
with some of the cowardice it requires to put a country teams. Best wishes at Regions! Congratu— white woman orablack male?
, personal attack in the Quick Hits. lations as well to Coaches Tucker and Hoey for _ _ _ , _
being Coaches of the Year. (I) V1V(l)iy was Condi Rice wearing ﬂight gear this
(D FYI: There is no Taylor Hanson at W&L. He is W53 ~
' . . “ B .,, . . . . . . ‘ ' ‘ x
in that group that sings Mmm opp ;Iv>jc2)1rIi1lititileee;:lcctfi:<t)vi(1)(ol((>verage 1S even more (D vhhy was Condl R106 wearmg ﬂlght gear thls
» (I) Don’t let your frat room decorations be a rug on wee '
(D N th tB h h v o o f f the izirlleone lI:‘)ldlC(1ill01lSly ugly white dog nailed Blelsi addition to LexVegas suice last year: Cafe (1) TOday,S a good day in history for Republicans. ‘
to mow _tagr01:l:ha:iS1:Va‘:l_n7’1S‘tt"ne or the awlty 0y u m oar ‘ C e‘ Bush, Reagan, Nixon, Eisenhower, and Lincoln all p-
1 (I) Clayton Edwards, sometimes you just feel like a ‘I’ second best addition‘ The B3-keTy- won landshdes on this day’
(D Kudos to the MSA for hosting an excellent Par— princess _ _ . (I, In 1980 B S - I , ah) “Th Rj ,.
ents’ weekend dinner. (I) Kudos to Pumpkin Seeds for providing bever- hit b ’ lmleie P3335 ‘even 5 h um d e Vet
CD If there was ever a woman _who should be elected agesto Dads while the gals charged up the credit “um er ' °w es ave e ange ' Iv
* ”‘"<I5“Was’aIIyoneelse4hin1cingwhilQ,V1§Q1Lln£_§1§_ _President of the United States, it should be Dawn card. H  b b . - .
election retums...wow this reminds me of game 7 of ‘w;ri;ih‘si;i Prohibition reinstated! I 11 I I’  j ’ E ~ ~~~—‘_. FEPPY Bmhday to Tara Reid‘
me ALCS? ‘1’ A Whole l0i 0f C1355 and hospitality from the  «A  
(I) Despite you best efforts, plaid vests never work. FIJI brothers at the Hampton Ihh Saturday way (I) Has Yasser Arafat died ye‘t‘?‘~ ~~\.,\ _\ o
(I) On the same note, was anyone thinking...wow to go Boys! ' , 
this is a hard call——would I rather have had Kerry <1) If you break up with someone, stop having sex i (1) George W Bush should, app0mt.J°hn Kerry as E
win? or the Red Sox,, _ with them (I, The band at the polo Houses Tom party rocked ambassador to France. He s ﬂuent in French a.nd I
. No parent or student stoodistill. 311655 he understands them-
rp Yea Bostonian Democrats 1 ’ (I) It’s a sad day when the school can’t remodel its , ’
football stadium without considering rankings. v_ ‘D How about the Knitting Society racking up $750 (D Vetetam Day 13 Nevember 11' G0 thank 3 Vet‘ ‘n
q) Nina said she’d be my fr-jend____twj¢e_ for Project Horizon selling hats and scarves at the emu‘ V
(D A . W. h all th b  Dig: Tripp O'II1‘Il€IlZHTha£kS ftoh the history les~ football game. Keep those needles moving, ladies! q, Send your anonymous and crazy quick hits‘

Wareness = Prevendod 1‘ '3 "22 3°’ son‘ Ve’ your fave er Spa e er‘ . . . . and 0st ' arents weekend stories t
- a - - <I> Wh e the Re ublicans oing to nominate in _ P P °
mg around, let s kill sexual assault on this campus. (I) I love Libby Dole’ She Should be president‘ 20O8?o 131.: Cain Orflhudy? 8 o ph1@vv1u.edu h

v «r.v.« itnt‘-':a&i:§o~.~-4.»: ,_ .,., ,,.,»;.r,-,,,.,,_..;.,§.-,-,3,-, w-»

 

