 

 
 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE   NG-TUM

PHI

The rtrrdem‘ wire of Worizirgror and Lee Umi/errzh Time 7897 .

HIPPIES ON OUR CAMPUS?!

CULTURE FOR THE MASSES. Hair opened to rave reviews last Friday evening. With a
cast of 21, primarily students, and a slew of behind—the—scenes help, Hair dazzled
the audience with hippie costumes, outstanding singing, well-choreographed dancing
and a groovy set. Rumor has it that the show is not sold out.

see page 5 for more photos and a P/.zz' review.

   
    

STEVEN MARINos / THE RING-TUM PHI

C-School majors go hi-tech with Internet class

BY KAELA HARMON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

For sophomores majoring in the C-
School, life just got a little bit more techni-
cal.

As of next fall (fall 2004), they will be
required to take Washington and Lee’s very
first completely online course.

It is an information technology
course and will be labeled Interdepartmen-

tal 201—Information Technology Literacy,

(IT Literacy). The course is designed to
ensure that all C-School graduates can ef-
fectively use Windows, Excel, Word,
Power Point, and the various factions of
the W&L network, including GroupWise
and web browsing.

Professor Ballenger of the Manage-
ment department said that Williams school
began planning for this course in the win-
ter of 2002. In November of 2002, the C-
School faculty approved the plan to de-

velop the course and the designing pro-

' cess began during the winter term of 2003.

According to Professor Ballenger, the
development process took place through-
out the majority of last summer and in-
volved extensive help from several of the
VV1lliams School majors.

The course was then test piloted in
last term with students from Professor Wil-
liam King’s Accounting 202 class. Accord-
ing to Professor Ballenger, the pilot—test

provided those working on the project with

“significant insight into how students used
the course and problems they were having
with it.”

As a result of the testing, several
changes will be made to the course
throughout the summer to make sure that
everything is in place for the fall. The C-
School also invested in a new high—end
server to help run the class.

In the fall, students enrolled in Eco-
nomics 101/ 102, Accounting 201/202, Man-

agement/Economics 201/203 and Politics
201 will be invited to take the course. It
will be a pass/fail course, and an excep-
tion to the normal rules, so that students
enrolled in the class can take on other
class pass/fail as well.

In order to pass the class, students
will have to take an exam for each of the
five areas of study and receive a 70 or
higher on each. Students will then receive
credit for the class at the end of the term.

Current sophomores will be invited
totake the course in the upcoming fall term,
and must complete the course during that
time. After that point, it will be expected
that all rising juniors have successfully
finished the course as C-School faculty
will be using the skills learned in their
classes.

For right now, this is the only to-
tally online course available at W&L, but
if it is successful, there may be several to
come in its wake‘.

(WT

VOLUME CVIII, No.5

MONDAY, MAY 24, 2004

Board approves
campus changes

When students return to
campus next fall, they will ﬁnd that
some changes have been made.
These alterations affect every part
of our campus life from academ-
ics, to athletics, to parking. The
Board of Trustees
approved all of
these projects.

Art and mu-
sic will continue to
dominate the major changes to
campus. “When students arrive,
there will be a big hole in the
ground by Lenfest,” said Joe
Grasso, Vice President for Adrnin—
istration. The school will begin
excavating for the new art and
music building beginning June 1.

The Mason New Room, in
the old Dean of Students ofﬁce in
Payne Hall, will be completed this
summer. It will be a reception and
meeting area. The entire project
was funded by a donor.

Five new “smart” class-
rooms will be added to the Col-
lege. One classroom, Robinson 7,
is completely funded by a donor
as well.

A study was recently com-
pleted by an architecture ﬁrm in
Charlottesville on Dupont Hall and
the Co—op. The study was a cost
beneﬁt analysis of the two build-

 

ings to see if the school should
retain them or build new buildings
on their sites. The Board heard
the results of this study and will
not make a decision until the fall
meeting at the earliest.

Wi 1 s o n

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS Field will re-
CHRIS LAUDERMAN ‘O6

ceive renova-
tions over the
summer. The
drainage system of the ﬁeld will
be replaced and the track will be
resurfaced. Lower Alumni Field,
a practice ﬁeld, will also receive
revisions. Both of these projects
were funded by private donors.

Davis Dorm will be receiv-
ing new paint, an up-to—date ﬁre
system with sprinklers, new fur-
niture, and bathroom renovations.
Grasso said he would like to have
student input on color choices for
the dorms. The Student Health
Center in the basement of Gilliam
Dorm will be overhauled for the
first time in 50 years.

In June, the school will be
getting the results of a parking
study. Students have seen a loss
of parking because of the new art
and music building. When we
come back in the fall, we could see
new parking regulations as well
as new parking lots.

   

STEvENiMARINos / THE RING—'['UM HI

MEETIN’ TIME. Rector Phil Norwood looks on as a new Board member
is sworn in at this past weekend’s meeting in Lexington.

50/ 50 gender split

Class of 2008 shows best numbers ever,

BY KAELA HARMON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

In the past several years, Washington and Lee has seen a
growing trend in the incoming class. Every year, the freshmen
class is academically stronger and more diverse than the class
before it. This year, that pattern continues.

Assistant Director of Admissions and Coordinator of Mi-
nority Recruitment, Erin Hutchinson said that this year W&L saw
the largest applicant pool ever, with more than 3600 students ap-
plying. Of that number, about 458 are expected to return to repre-
sent the class of 2008.

Most of the students who will be coming in the fall have
already confirmed, and the admissions department is excited about
what they will bring to the campus.

According to Hutchinson, the numbers for those who have
already confirmed are pretty impressive. The gender split is about

50/50 and more than 40 states and 12 countries are represented.
There are around _60 students of color, with Asian Americans be-
ing the most largely represented group of minorities.

Academically speaking, at this point, the class of 2008 can
boast of having 28 Valedictorians or salutatori-
ans, and 273 members of the National Honor So-
ciety. The average SAT scores for admitted stu-
dents is 701 verbal and 698 math.

This group will also have something to
bring to the athletics department. About 169 of
them were varsity captains and several sports
teams on campus are already looking to see what this group will
bring to the table.

Volleyball coach, Bryan Snyder, has been doing his part in
bringing several women to the campus who he feels will make a
strong contribution to his team, as well as the campus as a whole.
The average SAT for his recruits is 1300, and 2 of the women have

The average SAT scores for
admitted students is 701
verbal and 698 math

Seniors look forward to bright futures

Career Services oﬁers a plethora of helpful hints and resources for the job search

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

As graduation looms, seniors can be found
celebrating job offers, preparing for graduate
school, or continuing the job search process.

It is still too early to have data involving
senior’s future plans, but Beverly Lorig, Director
of Career Services, indicated that the job market
looks brighter than recent years.

“This year the increase in hiring nationally
is 12.5%,” said Lorig.

According to the National Association of
Colleges and Employers, the top jobs for 2003-04
graduates, in terms of number of offers reported,
were management trainee, private accountant, and
sales.

Lorig emphasized the importance to start-
ing the job search early and using the resources
career services has to offer.

She said that often seniors shift their focus
to relaxation during spring tenn, and this often
keeps them from recognizing the importance of
the job search at a critical time.

She encouraged seniors to set up a time
to meet with Career Services before they gradu-

Career Services staff can help with prac-
tice interview, alumni connections, and mar-
keting the W&L experience.

Alumni resources at W&L are an ex-
tremely important part of the job search, there-
fore giving W&L students an extra edge in the
job search process.

“Most students will find jobs through
networking or referrals,” said Lorig.

About 21 to 27 percent of seniors usu-
ally plan to pursue graduate studies in the fall.
At W&L these numbers tend to remain fairly
consistent, despite changes in the job market.

“I’m going to law school next year at the
University of Arkansas. After that I plan on
going into criminal prosecution,” said senior
Barrett Nixon.

Lorig also emphasized that seniors
should inform Career Services once they have
accepted a job offer. “We love to celebrate their
success.”

 

been recognized as All American players. He said that he believes
that these women will “absolutely” add to the competitive edge
of his team, and be well—rounded members of the W&L commu-
nity.

The men’s basketball team is also looking
to have members of the incoming class add to
the strength of the campus as a whole and the
team in general. The average SAT for his re-
cruits is 1360, and several of them lead their high
school teams to championship competitions.

Overall, the class of 2008 is expected to
bring a lot to campus. Over 360 have served in leadership positions
in major organizations or in some other extracurricular activity.

Hutchinson did point out that over the summer the compo-
sition of the class could change in a variety of ways, but she said
that she is confident that this class is continuing the trend of
strengths.

Rhodes, Conner win P/92' Awards

Mock Convention is the largest student undertaking at
Washington and Lee. It has huge budget, encompasses dozens
of events over three terms and two academic years and involves
all but few students.
ate. Noah Rhodes, who served as the convention’s general chair-
man, gave up a second major in English to orchestrate a cast of
thousands into W&L’s greatest academic event, greatest party
and greatest public relations success.

Rhodes took his job with Mock Con in Spring 2002 and will
join Wachovia investment banking in Charlotte this summer.

For his leadership of Mock Convention, Noah Rhodes is
our choice for the 2004 Ring-tum Phi Award.

RHODES

Already lauded in our pages as one of the “must—have” Pro-
fessors, Marc Conner of the English Department is our choice for
the faculty’s 2004 Ring—tum Phi Award.

Student’s regularly gush about the intersting discussions held
in Conner’s classes. Talk to any former student and it is clear that
Conner cares about his students and is passionate about the sub-
ject matter he teaches.

Phi staff writer Courtney Perry praised Conner’s, “extensive

I knowledge of subject and enthusiasm for material.” As a former stu-
dent of Conner’s, Perry also said that, “he is very fair and genuinely
interested in his students.”

We’re also honoring Conner for his contributions to main-
taining the Spring Term Calendar.

 

 

  

    

, .-_tlr?WtB’€« is rgreuﬁm LJBFIARY
wr\ar+rr~w  in A LEE unnawsrrv
-‘~P“xP.<t

VA  '
MAY 2 5 2004

  

_ PAGE 2

S‘irii‘i3iiED1ToR1AL

The Early-Fielding Memorial
Building is being neglected. One could
argue, “Phi staff, the Business Office
was moved into the building,” but we
would reply, “Who actually wants to go
to the Business Office?”

Don’t get us wrong, we are very
happy with the Elrod Commons that re-
placed Early-Fielding, but the school
also lost some special rooms that are
not being used on a regular basis.

GHQ: The General’s Headquar-
ters, while not the best food, had a great
atmosphere. Students had a restaurant
where servers actually waited on them.
Java at the GHQ, held every Monday
night, allowed students to have coffee
in a coffee house atmosphere with local
bands.

Fairfax Lounge: The Fairfax
Lounge used to be like the Women’s
Resource Room or the Outing Club
Room. Organizations used to use the
room for meetings, but the only reason
anyone on the Phi staff has entered that
room this year is to get a ﬂu shot.

Evans Hall: Evans is one of the
most beautiful buildings on our campus.
Freshman used to eat their meals ev-
eryday in a building built to hold Fancy _
Dress with chandeliers and columns.
Evans now is used for the occasional
wedding reception. Evans did however
have a shining moment this year when it
held the Mock Convention Presidential
Gala.

We have some suggestions. First,
the GHQ should become a restaurant
again. Even if W&L does not want to
run it, they could lease it to a restaurant
owner. Second, professors and presi-
dents of organizations should start hold-
ing meetings in Fairfax again. Lastly, the

school should bring more formal events
to Evans. Almost everyone at W&L
holds our traditions sacred. Early-Field-
ing is one tradition that faded away and
no one noticed.

' A .31  G“r.iUl“v‘i PHI

CAIEYANBEBON

OP1N1oNsEB1'1oR
andersonc@wlu.edu

i3iN1oNs  

Pro-War or an t1'- War, stand against the draft

MONDAY, MAY 24, 2004

PHOTO (JOURTESY or mindrpring. tom

MANPOWER SHORTAGE? This barracks lies empty. A lot of people say they support the troops, but how many (including our young women) are willing to be troops?

It is indisputable that there are a few words
in the English language that people will do any-
thing to avoid. “Draft” may very well be one of
them. It is wholly painless to speak the words
that communicate the notion that it is each
person’s duty to serve his or her country faith-
fully, even if this means they have to drop ev-
erything to fight, but actually
carrying this out is clearly a 9
completely different story. ,_

Currently, there is pend-
ing legislatibn, twin bills S 89
and HR 163, in the House of Representatives and
the Senate, each having the goal of providing
“for the common defense by requiring that all
young persons in the United States, including

 

women, perform a period of military service or a9

period of civilian service in furtherance of the
national defense and homeland security, and for
other purposes.” The two bills state that “it is
the obligation of every U.S. citizen, and every
other person residing in the United States...to

_ A FRESH PERSPECTIVE
‘ _ BIBEKA SHRESTHA ‘0]__

perform a two—year period of national service,
unless exempted.”

The bills also aim to amend “the Military
Selective Service Act to authorize the military
registration of females” in addition to males be-
tween the ages of l8 and 26. In addition, the
legislation would not exempt college students
from the draft. If these bills are
passed, it would be a historic
change, as both men and women
would be equally liable for mili-
tary service, not to mention the
fact that it would create an even bigger pool of
potential draftees.

Regardless of how you feel about the wars
in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is a universally dread-
ful thought that one day, you or your loved ones
might be selected to leave the shelter of home to
join the armed forces in foreign terrain. With con-
tinuing conﬂict in Iraq notwithstanding, Presi-
dent Bush’s declaration of the end of the war
last year and other countries pulling their troops

out, the need for more troops is quite evident. It
is certainly unlikely that other countries will vol-
unteer their armed forces, so a draft may be more
likely than we think. The Pentagon has already
begun a public campaign to fill over ten thou-
sand draft board positions and over eleven thou-
sand appeals board positions in the nation.

The only citizens who would qualify for
exemptions from the draft would be those who
are physically disabled or conscientious objec-
tors, who are defined as being “opposed to serv-
ing in the armed forces and/ or bearing arms on
the grounds of moral or religious principles.” If
one is politically opposed to the war, he or she
would not be considered a conscientious objec-
tor. This means that even if you never supported
the war in Iraq, you could be forced to fight. The
issue of the draft is one that touches us all as
the youth of America, and we must be more ac-
tive in following the progress of these two bills
because if we do not, we might one day come to
regret it.

(I

   

te of the Week
5 ))

“The matches may light upon impact.”

~Roanoke Channel 10 News, advising
of a recall put into effect last night.

'.%\E{l.\’F;l‘<7'E{ .v‘.r-3.) LEE l,’.~zn'Lr.s1';\'

G—TUM PHI

Editor in Chief Erin E. Julius
Managing Editor Chris Lauderman
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Acting Life Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Photography Editor Corbin Blackford
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Copy Editors Vanessa Arness
Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis
Business Managers Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Circulation Director Rob Rain
Asst. Circulation Dir Leggett Kitchin
Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb

  

Production Assistants

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060

Fax: (540) 458-4059

Email: phi@wlu.edu

Subscription rate $40

nating by geographic birthplace.”
IFC- l
resignation of VP. That didn’t look good, guys.

“new member education” instead of hazing.

LexPo— 1‘ See above.

maybe some better pizza?

someone who works there who is under 60.

Wonkafest.

the main event?
name on cover.

Universe? Wait for next year.

Spring Term Debate— T Board elects to keep it, and with future stu-
dents taking one Spring Term out of four off, everyone will be happy.

EC— t-* A good start at responding to student demands for account-
ability, but there are still a lot of hard questions that need up front answering.

Honor System-4-+ Lots of changes coming, most likely, but odds are
that it won’t get gutted and turned into a rulebook like UVA’s.

Frats— .1. Next year- “SAE receives one year suspension for discrin1i—

VMIs— ‘*9 They seem less friendly, but hey, what did you expect?
Dining Services- 1‘ Big improvements in Marketplace. Next year- aches.

Commons-3' Students (including me) now realizing it was worth the
money. But hey, doesn’t the old co-op look awfully lonely these days?

Alumni- 1‘ Take greater role in on—campus events, and during 2004
Alumni Weekend, prove as never before that they are still W&Lers at heart.

Diversity Initiatives— T Lots of new orgs, as well as progress by GSA
and MSA. Only downside— wasn’t trying to practically behead inadvertent
Nazi Armband guy going a little too far?

W&L Sp0rts—4-+ Another “so close” year. We’re looking forward to
2005, especially women’s V-ball and men’s lax.

Life outside W&L- i Blood, devastation, death, war, and horror.

Wal-Mart— e-—r Remains only place where you can buy everything
you’ll need at W&L while cows graze across the street, but still lacking-

FD— T Rebounds from somewhat mediocre 2002-03 with fun-packed

M0ckCon- 4-» Solid event marred by travesty of a parade. Also— is it
just me, or should James Carville have been a secondary speaker rather than

Calyx— 7 No more flaming Tridents; nor misspelled words in W&L’s

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what felt, and what stayed about the same this year at W&L.

S.A.B.- 4-+ Moves away from Jam Bands, but Karl Denson’s Tiny
E-mail Andersonc@wlu.edu with comments/questions

S.A.0.- ? Surprising success of new organization shows that there
are things to do on this campus that do not require a BAC higher than .10.

Administration-4-9 Good job on Spring Term, construction projects,
and solid year from new cast of Deans, but a few students still fear
Swarthmoriﬁcation and still lack confidence in some Admins.

Trident-4——> Center of debate over student government, but will they
have the cash to keep it up next year? Plus, back page woes- no mo’
Denbow, and Xak is taking his genius abroad. We hardly knew ye, Mr.
Mysterious quiet over Rush date controversy and related Bausch.
- Traveller- T Like Adrian Beltre, the breakthrough year everyone’s
Class of 2007- T Ate at Commons instead of D-Hall, went through been looking for. Great job, Traveller people.

Faculty-}‘ For every professor here who’s simply average, there are

Parking- 3. New Art+Music building is good, but takes away yet five who are excellent.
another parking lot. Next year, Gaines Hall residents to be issued bicycles.

T0wnies— T Is it just me, or do they seem downright friendly recently?

Newcomb Hall- J. No qualms with the departments that call Newcomb
their home, but good lord, what IS that smell?

Weather- .1. Less snow this year, but also maybe a week’s worth of
warm, sunny days during the whole school year. My Californian heart

Better-
15%

Phi Quick Poll

Do YOU THINK THAT W&L. OVER THE LAST YEAR, HAS BECOME A BETTER PLACE, A WORSE PLACE, OR

HAS REMAINED ABOUT THE SAME?

‘Worse-
21%

48 students polled, 25 men, 23 women. Poll has 95% confidence in a +/- 5% margin of error

Same-
65%

‘*7

 

 

PAGE 3

THE RiNc~niMPn1

Q\iE'x’A\11)ntsoN

OPINIONSEDHOR ’

andersonc@wlu.edu

PINIONS

MONDAY, MAYCZT4, 2004

Congress needs more Republicans like Warnepr

John Warner has been publicly
upbraided by Republicans in Congress
for continuing to call people to testify in
the prisoner abuse scandal. He has a
rather distinguished record. Mr. Warner
is a longtime Virginia Senator, Chairman
of the Armed Services Committee, a vet-
eran of two wars, and a Washington and
Lee graduate. He is a Repub-

lem go away as quickly as possible. A full,
transparent investigation — precisely
what the Senate Armed Services Commit-
tee is doing — is exactly what they don’t
want.

These sort of people in Congress
are nothing more than pathetic party
hacks. I was quite right when I said at

Mock Convention that

lican. Republican Represen— the problem with Con-
tatives have claimed that the OUTINLEFT FIELD gress is that there aren’t
Armed Services Committee’s GABE CHAPMAN ‘06 more W&L Republicans

hearings distract from our ef-
forts in Iraq and undermine those
in combat. They have implied that con-
ducting these hearings is unpatriotic.
Senator Inhofe of Oklahoma had the au-
dacity to claim that he was “outraged by
the outrage.” He was amazed that people
would be so concerned about the treat-
ment of criminals and those endangering
our troops. Senator Inhofe is evidently
unaware that most of the prisoners at Abu
Ghraib are not guilty of any crimes.
Congressional Republicans have
tried to bully and intimidate the Senate
Armed Services Committee because they
don’t want attention brought to the
prison scandal. They are using the most
insidious tactic, which is to claim that a
full investigation into misconduct under-
mines our legitimate actions. Their aim
is transparently obvious — to protect the
Bush Administration and to minimize the
public outcry over the abuse scandal.
Their best solution is to make the prob-

Roll with the

in Congress. Senator
Warner is not a party
hack, and it’s evident that his W&L edu-
cation makes him special. He recognizes
that there are bigger concerns here than
the embarrassment of the Bush Adminis-
tration. It is imperative that our country
conducts full and transparent investiga-
tions. We cannot claim to carry the torch
of free society when we abuse and then
cover up, or pretend like Senator Inhofe
that it simply doesn’t matter. These Re-
publican hacks don’t recognize that that
is what truly undermines our effort in Iraq.
-The Geneva Convention, with re-
spect to the treatment ofprisoners taken
in Iraq
General Lee, of course, once said
that the true mark of an honorable gentle-
man is the “forebearing use of power,”
You’ve seen the pictures. The treatment
in Abu Ghraib is precisely the opposite.
In fact, the Geneva Convention essen-
tially tried to codify the forebearing use

of power; the way enemy combatants
ought to be treated in light of their unde-
niable status as persons, just like our-
selves. Our actions at Abu Ghraib were
inhuman. President Bush signed a secret
executive order designed specifically to
skirt the rules of war. I leave it to you to
decide how this accords with‘General
Lee’s definition of honor.

I said, “our actions.” Indeed they
are. We, as a nation and a people, are in
Iraq. The idea of the United States is be-
ing put to the test. Do we want secret ex-
ecutive orders, maltreatment, and then
hush-hush operations? Is this the patri-
otic, virtuous republic that we believe in?

Speaker of the House Dennis
Hastert huffed and puffed at John McCain
recently. McCain has argued against an-
other round of tax cuts because he wants
to promote the idea of shared, universal
sacrifice in the cause ofjust war and lib-
eration. Hastert roared at the Vietnam vet-
eran, “Senator McCain ought to go to
Bethesda'(hospital) and see that there is
sacrifice in this country. That’s not the
point, Hastert. McCain wants some sacri-
fice to be borne by all Americans, not just
the people in our military. The idea of the
virtuous democratic republic demands
that all citizens make sacrifices in just
causes.

There are two types of politicians.
There are the John Warners and John
McCains, and there are the other guys.
The party hacks. The guys who will prom-

  

PHOTO COURTESY ()1; urII1edirir1e.i‘oI2/

REAL supponr FOR THE moors. S e n a tor Warner

knows what’s really at stake in Iraq, and refuses to ..

bow down to party dogma for the sake of sacriﬁcing
principle. '

ise a free lunch. They’ll cut taxes and pre-
tend to improve education and scare you
and then start wars, knowing they can't
pay for it all. And so they’ll run deficits.
Some of them are Republicans, some of
them are Democrats. But I fervently hope
that none of us want to be Dennis Hastert
or Inhofe or, indeed, George Bush. We are
students of Washington and Lee. We
don’t make promises we know we can’t
keep, because that’s lying. We don’t
abuse people who are at our mercy. We
are all students of General Lee.

punches- change inevitable at University

Afew weeks ago in the Health Center, a nurse was at a loss how
to explain to a freshman how to get to the Counseling Center. Words like
“old d—hall,” “GHQ,” and “University Center” were failing to make a
connection. I finally came up with “above the Registrar’s Office” and he
understood. This conversation got me to thinking about how much has
changed at Washington and Lee in
the 2 short years that I’ve been here.
I look back on my freshman year sad
about some of the things this year’s
class and future freshmen classes
will miss and glad about the things they don’t have to experience.

One thing that has changed is names. The “d—hall” is now the
“Marketplace,” the “Co—op” is now the “Cafe/Emporium” (although I
saw a new sign today that said something like “Cafe ‘77"). I don’t know
if the old names have been carried on by the freshmen, but I’m sure it’s
only a matter of time before the new names permanently stick. I have
even caught myself calling d—hall the Marketplace before. The Univer-
sity Center has been renamed to avoid confusion with the new Com-
mons. It’s now called the Early-Fielding Building, or something like that.
How bizarre.

Another important thing that has changed is the food. Remem-
ber the GHQ? Of course you do! (Unless you’re a freshman — the

Letter to the Editor

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MOUTEVEIIS ‘O6

General’s Headquarters was a breakfast and lunch place where you
could take abreak firm d—hall food while still using your meal plan) They
had the best chicken ﬁnger and fries deal on campus and it was deli-
cious! The Co—op was another place we could use our meal plans on (we
used to get 3 meals a week at either the GHQ or Co-op. Now we’ve lost
the GHQ and the new Co—Op makes you skip dinner if you want to use
your meal plan! What a rip-off!). I miss how we used to be able to just
grab a hamburger, pizza, or fries and pay. Now we have to get in line and
wait for them to cook it. I also miss the little order forms where we could
customize our sandwiches. Without it being written down properly,
tliere’s more room for error. The “Marketplace” —I could go on and on.
I miss the days of having American food every day and then having a
special international night once a month. Now, it’s the complete oppo-
site! The new d—hall is great for lunch — the grilled sandwich station is a
huge plus — but dirmers are horrible if you don’t like the international
display. We can’t eat pizza and ﬁied food every night!
Ok, I think I’ve dwelled enough on the bad changes, now let’s
talk about the good changes. The new Commons is fabulous! As a
friend said during orientation, “We’re like a real university now!” Last
year there was never really a good place to hang out on campus. Now
we have meetings, events, studying, and socializing all in one central
location. I love the free movies put on by the Commons and the Film

Society (last year the Film Society was off-campus and it took me half the
year to figure out where the movies were being shown). The bookstore
is a major improvement — last year it was so tiny and limited, this year I
can get my textbooks without having to squeeze through crowds and
there is a much larger selection of books and apparel to choose from.
The computer kiosks throughout the building for checking e—mai1 were a
great idea, too.

Another noticeable improvement this year was a lack of explo-
sions and construction waking students up early every morning — al-
though, that may return with the building of the new Arts School. The G-
L, Doremus, Commons quad is a nice upgrade from that eye sore of
cranes, trucks, dirt, fences, and construction workers. All the work on
that area turned out beautifully. I »

I’m interested to see what other changes the future will bring
to this school. IfI had my wish, we would tear down that ugly library.
Whose design was that?! It’s as if someone was thinking, “This campus
is too beautiful, we have to add the ugliest building anyone has ever
seen to even things out.” The library is so gross and out of place here.
After I make my ﬁrst million, l’1l have to start setting aside a fund to build
a more beﬁtting library for our campus. ,

Anyway, change is inevitable. It can be good, it can be bad,
but you just have to try to roll with the punches.

SAC talks about Beta wimmserannetamraternnyms
report detailed several serious inci-

DearEditor, dents as reported directly to that of-

The Beta situation is a most ﬁce including repeated forced con-

unfortunate one.’ There are no win-
ners in it — neither the pledges, the
upperclass students, the House Cor-
poration, the national organization,
nor the University. It has been a long
road to this point. Before the on-set
of the academic year, the University
atIemptedtowoikwithGreekLifepio-
gramstoexamine theirpledgeshippro-
grams and offer programs consistent
with University and national frater-
nity/sorority expectations.
InMarchof2004,theOfﬁceof
the Dean of Students ﬁled a report
with the Inter—Fratemity Council re-
garding direct allegations of hazing

sumptions of concoctions intended
to cause nausea, exposure to the
elements, and the forced consump-
tion of alcohol. The al1—student In-
ter-Fraterriity Council (IFC) Judicial
Board heard the case the following
evening. Beta Theta Pi offered no
defense. The IFC offered a recom-
mendation of suspension of Beta
Theta Pi fratemity and that recom-
mendation was upheld by the Uni-
versity Board of Appeals. Follow-
ing University pmcedme, sucharec—
ommendation went before the Stu-
dentAifairs Committee (SAC).
The SAC found reasonable

6VideI1C6t0 SUPPOIT the n11mCI011S Beta, and they have not been pun-
Vi01ati0I1S Ofthe UniveIsity’s policy ished so severely, so Beta should not
on hazing, and wholeheartedly beeither, ”[heIFCand SAC reviewed
adopted IFC’s recommendations as every otherreport of hazingatW&L

also affirmed by the University
Board of Appeals before it was
heard by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee. The Student Affairs Com-
mittee did not believe the evidence
offered to refute the claims of forced
alcohol consumption. The Student
Aﬁairs Committee concurs with all
other ﬁndings of the Inter-Fraternity
Council with respect to allegations
of hazing.

The SAC would also like to
address some questions that have
arisenthnoughoutthis process. One
concern is that other fraternities haze
in ways as bad as or worse than

this winter. Contrary to what some
think, and even what some have writ-
ten in the student newspaper reports,
there are no reported hazing irici—
dents as egregious as those adrriit—
ted by mernbers of Beta. If anyone
knows the details of other incidents,
thelFCandSAC asksthatthosebe
reported, for these incidents too
should be pursued in accord with
the published guidelines of the Uni-
versity.

The argument that “others are
doing it too, so we should not be
punished for doing it’ ’ is not one that
SAC orthe University gerieially ﬁnds

persuasive. The unfair application
of justice would be a concern, but
as noted above, those who have
investigated all the reported inci-
dents of hazing do not believe that
the penalties handed out have been
uneven. .

Some believe the penalty is
too severe. Again, based on what
the IFC and SAC reviewed, this is
not the case. The infomiation sug-
gests that the penalty levied on Beta
is consistent not only with what the
University has imposed in the past,
but also with what other national
organizations have imposed on
W&L houses who have hazed
pledges.

Washington and Lee Ur1iver—
sity desires to have a healthy and

vibrant Greek community, and the
SAC believes we have the potential
to have the best Greek community in
the nation. However, hazing of any
sort is contradictory to the values of
the University and to the expecta-
tions and guidelines of national ﬁa-
temal organizations — not to mention
an unhealthy environment for our
students. The University takes seri-
ously its commitment to work with
its Greek organizations to provide
pledgeship programs that build on
the strengths of those in fraternities
and sororities rather than the “tear-
ing down” that can occur during haz-
mg.

-The S.A.C.

University Cleaners

7 North Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
463-3622

University Cleaners offers full service storage for all
your winter clothing and bedding. Each item is cleaned
and stored, ready for pick up in the fall. Regular
cleaning charges apply and are billed to your home
address in July. Storage is free.

It couldn't be easier, bring in your clothing this spring
and pick it up in the fall, clean, pressed, and ready to
wear. Eliminates the need to carry it all home over the
summer. Call or stop in today for addlctional
information.

Free Summer Storage of all winter clothes and bedding

Celebrate Spring Time
0 Father’s Day '
Brides ~ Graduation
witha

, Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540) 264-0063
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements V
Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

 

  

 

JOHNHYIAND
AssrrANrSf>oinsEDr1oR
hylandjb@wluodu

. MONDAY, MAY 24, 2004

are  PE-E

PORTS

PAGE 4

Even in NCAA defeat seniors, Generals, shine

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

As they have their entire careers at W&L, the
seniors proved their worth as their careers came to a
close in Salisbury, MD. After a March 13th loss at
F&M left the bewildered Generals squad 2-3, the team
regrouped and used an 11-win rampage — including
the utter domination of the ODAC conference — end-
ing with the ODAC championship and a #7 rank en-
tering the NCAA tournament. This rampage, while
most certainly a team effort, was orchestrated by the
talented and experienced senior class.

One of the most frequently coined phrases in
sports is that defense wins championships, and in
lacrosse the goalie is the heart, the quarterback, of
the defense; therefore it is ﬁtting that my praise of
the senior class begin with co-captain and ODAC
player of the year, Ansel Sanders. VVrth a team that
lost a combined 179 points of offense with the gradu-
ation 'of names like Pope Hackney, Matt Dugan, Bernie
Norton and Tom Burke, the Generals needed a solid
goalie to slow opponents’ offense as they estab-
lished an offense of their own. Sanders responded
with 161 saves and a .599 goals against average that
year. As Salisbury ended the Generals’ season, Sand-
ers notched 18 incredible saves to go along with the
457 others in his career. Ansel truly saved the best
for last: his 18-save performance was the best of his
career.

Moving out from the goal, co-captairi and pre-
season honorable mention all-American defenseman
Lawson Grumbine has been a staple of the Generals’
defense for the past three seasons, earning a number
of All-ODAC awards, Grumbine was the leader of a
defense that over the past three seasons allowed an
average of 5.8 goals a game. Saying that Grumbine
ended his career with 99 groundballs doesn’t com-
pletely reﬂect his role on the team; saying that this
season Grumbine was called upon every single game
to mark the opponents’ best attackman goes a bit
farther in showing his importance to the team.

One story that has gone largely unheralded
this season has been thatof longstick‘ defenseman
Kenny Rasamny. Asked to ﬁll the large void left by
the departure of Matt Connors, Rasarnny would have
a trial-by—ﬁre this season, and came out as one of the
best at his position in all of D-III. Like Grumbine,
Rasamny was asked to go up against the opponents’
best. He developed into one of the best longpole
middies in the nation this season, recording a whop-
ping 77 groundballs.

Known around campus for his dashing good
looks, kind temperament, and dreamy smile, co—cap-

tain Jimmy “hunka” Zunka played alongside Rasarnny
in the defensive midﬁeld this season. Like Rasamny,
Jimmy was called upon to mark the best midﬁelders
every game. Like Brad Pitt in Troy, this “gorgeous”
man crushed and destroyed everyone in his path,
establishing hirnselfas a premier defensive midﬁelder.

Co-captain Dustin Martin was dominant this
season. Finishing his career with 116 points on 90
goals and 26 assists, Dustin was a key to the offense’s
success this season. Frequently called upon — by
yours truly— to simply “do-it-yourself Dustin,” he
responded to the tune of 34 goals — a hat-trick against
Salisbury — and 9 assists this season, despite often
drawing the longpole niiddie.

Running with Dustin on the ﬁrst line midﬁeld
was Mark McLewee. An incredibly athletic midﬁelder
and great dodger, Mark ﬁnishes his career with 58
points. He has been a impact in the midﬁeld over the
entirety of his W&L career. He has played in every
single game over his four years at W&L and has
started 31 out of a possible 32 games since the end of
his sophomore season.

Rounding out the first rriidﬁeld is Roland
“chicks dude” Williams. Using his superior intellect,
Rich would out-tliink the opposition: he would score
with his off-speed change-up shot, lulling goalies
into a false sense of security, then uncork his laser to
blow opponents away. Williams ends his career hav-
ing notched 18 points including ten goals this season.

Moving from midﬁeld to attack is often a difﬁ-
cult transition. When Mike McNamara was essen-
tially moved to attack this season, he experienced
little difﬁculty. He was third on the team in goals with
21 and fourth in points with 33. McNamara ends his
career with 66 points including 41 goals, despite an
injury-hampered junior season.

One of the most notable scorers over the past
four years has been attackman Matt Fink. Players in
whom such a potent mixture of dashing good looks
and raw talent exist are few and far between, but Fink
makes it look easy. This season, Fink tallied 44 points
on 33 goals and 11 assists, despite drawing oppo-
nents’ best defensemen. He has amassed an incred-
ible 142 points with 107 goals. His ranks in the top
ten all-time in goals over his career.

Having been written off by innumerable fans —
not yours truly obviously — after losing 3 out of the
first 5 games, senior leadership crushed any notion
of a losing season with an undefeated ODAC sea-
son sandwiched in a 12- game win streak that ended,
as so many teams’ hopes have this season, in
Salisbury, MD. To be sure, W&L had a great run this
season, and the seniors led the way.

li0'I' Blllllls?
liE'|' EASII!

last chance
End of Year Textbook Buyback

cash ill Vllllf IIIIIIKS

W&l AUTHORIZED
B|lYBllI}|(

2 l0GllTI0llS
nooxsronr run min on TIIE urwu

TIIESIIAY 5/25 thru
TIIESIIAY 6/1

TIMIII 70!! /0] Ilﬂlﬂillﬂ 70!]! 50/100] M’ Sﬂllillﬂ 0101
F0lIIﬂ00IS I0 W81

THANKS, SENIORS. Senior laxers led the team to an ODAC Championship and a run in the NCAAS.

Dean, Taffe highlight awards

W&L SPORTS RELEAsE

LEXINGTON, Va. — Seniors Peter Dean
(Vienna, Va./James Madison) and Kelly Taffe
(Charlottesville, Va./Albemarle) headed the list of
honorees at the annual Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Athletic Awards Ceremony on May 18 at
W&L’s Lee Chapel. Dean was named the Pres
Brown Outstanding Senior Male Athlete, while Taffe
was the female recipient of the award.

Dean was a four-year letterwinner for both
the football and baseball teams, serving as a base-
ball captain during his senior season. In football,
Dean was a three—year starter at quarterback, fm-
ishing his career as the school’s sixth all—tirne lead-
ing passer with 3,469 yards and 19 touchdowns. In
baseball, Dean was a three-tirne First Team All-
ODAC selection and the ODAC Pitcher and Base-
ball Scholar-Atlilete of the Year as a senior. He set
a new ODAC record for career victories in going
29-7 overall, and set new school records for career
ERA (2.20), strikeouts (232), appearances (54) and
innings pitched (290.2). A two-time all-region hon-
oree, he garnered Second Team Verizon Academic
All-America honors following the 2003 season.

Taffe was a four-year letterwinner and two-
year captain for both the ﬁeld hockey and women’s
lacrosse teams. Athree-time All-ODAC selection in
ﬁeld hockey, Taffe set nearly every school scoring
record, including goals and points in a game, sea-
son and career. He career totals stand at 34 goals
and 72 points. In lacrosse, Taffe was also a three-
time All-ODAC pick, including a first team selec-
tion her ﬁnal two seasons. She set new school
records for career goals (179) and points (234) in
leading the Generals to three ODAC Champion-
ships and three NCAA Tournament berths during
her four seasons. T affe was named the W&L Out-
standing Freshman Female Athlete in 2001.

In other major awards handed out at the cer-
emony, senior women’s soccer and basketball

player Heather Coleman (Blackwood, N .J ./T riton
Regional) received the William McHenry Scholar-
Athlete Award. Coleman carries a 4.077 grade-point
average while majoring in economics and politics.
She scored 100 career points as a point guard in
basketball and ranks eighth and ninth all-time in
W&L Soccer armals for career goals (19) and points
(44). She earned CoSIDA Third Team Academic All-
America honors last fall.

Senior Ansel Sanders (White Stone, Va./
Woodberry Forest) was named the recipient of the
Wink Glasgow Spirit & Sportsmanship Award. A
goalie for the men’s lacrosse team, Sanders is a
four-year letterwinner and two-year captain. A three-
time All-ODAC selection, 2004 ODAC Player of the
Year and 2003 Honorable Mention All-American,
he ranks ﬁfth all-time at W&L with 457 career saves.

Swimmer Michael Ginder (Jacksonville, Fla./
Episcopal) was named the Outstanding Freshman
Male and Athlete of the Year, while women’s tennis
player Kristen McClung (Charleston, W.Va./
Charleston Catholic) was named the Outstanding
Freshman Female Athlete of the Year. Ginder earned
Bluegrass Mountain Conference Swimmer of the
Year laurels and All-America honors after setting
school records in the 200 freestyle and 200 medley
relay.

McClung earned First Team All-ODAC hon-
ors and is ranked 10th in the Atlantic South Region
in singles. She ﬁnished the season with an 18-5
record at second singles and a 15-7 mark at second
doubles.

Roger Crocket, Professor of German, was
honored with the R.E. “Chub” Yeakel Memorial
Service Award for his support of Washington and
Lee athletics over the years. Senior Jacob Trotter
received the Lefty Newell Memorial Award for his
contributions to the W&L sports information de-
partment and WLUR, while junior women’s tennis
player Lindsay Hagerrnan received the Richard
Miller Physical Education Scholarship.

You want to go
to medical school,
you have your B.A.,
but the only
science course
you've taken
has been
Physics for Poe ts.

We have
a program
for you.

Columbia University’s
Postbaccalaureate
Premedical Program is
America’s oldest and best.

Discover why our
graduates have an 85%
placement rate in American
medical schools. Call:

(800) 8904127

Lu1=:.ISo..Id |‘B3!p8lLl8...ld 31129.: ne|e:>3eq3sod

gspremecl@co1umbia.edu
www.columbia.edu/cu/gs/postbacc

C O L U M B I A
School of General Studies

Lexington Art

Across from the State
Theater: 13 W. Nelson St.
Ph 540-464-8080
Hrs 11 to 5 Tues-Sat

Congratulations Class of 2004!

Memories fade but not
Original & Archival

Register for graduation /

Panoramics & 5x7 to 30x40
B&W / Co|or/ Platinum &

W&L Campus / Downtown /

By local & nationally known

www.lexingtonartgal|ery.com
info@|exingtonartgallery.com

Gallery

Photography

wedding gifts .

Palladium

County Images

photographers

A1

 

gs

THE RINOTOM PHI

PAGE 5

RTS &

Lina

BRETT T. KIRWAN

AcIINcARTs&LIIEEDIrOR
l<irwanb@wluedu

MONDAY, MAY 24, 2004

Dirty underwear, low gradesmark freshman ear

As I was packing my bags
to get ready to go home, I
thought about all the things that
I didn’t do in my first year at W
and L. When I first stepped on
campus in Sep-
tember, I had a
list of things
that I wanted to
do in college. I
did some of the
things on my list, but a few will
have to wait until next year.

The first thing I had
planned to do was to be Vale-
dictorian, or at least have some
ridiculously high GPA. Well,
let’s just say that didn’t quite
work out how I had expected.
And while we are on the sub-
ject, to the person that wrote the
article on grade inﬂation in the
Trident....What the *&%# are
you talking about?!? I know I
ain’t the sharpest spoon in the
drawer (or whatever the saying
is), butI got grades I didn’t even
know existed.

While Valedictorian is out
of reach, I can still get an A in a
class, but for now, that will have

POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE ‘O7

to wait until next year along with
many other things.

The next thing I haven’t
done this year is a little
gross....laundry. To say that I
haven’t done
laundry all
year would be
a slight exag-
geration, but it
would still not
be that far off from the truth.
When I run out of underwear I
go to Wal-Mart and buy new
ones. When I run out of money,
I turn my old underwear inside
out. I roll the sleeves of my long
sleeve shirts up when I run out
of t-shirts, and wear jeans when
it is 80 degrees out. I work with
what I have, and what I don’t
have is the motivation to do
laundry, or even buy detergent.

When spring term came
around, I had plarmed to go to
Foxfields, but my wallet had
other ideas. See my wallet has a
mind of its own, so when I tried
to take 25 bucks out of it to pay
for my ticket, it informed me that
it was empty and fun would be

temporarily out of service. So,
while everyone else in the Dubya
community was wearing seer-
sucker and looking fratty, I was
sitting in my room all weekend
alone.

At least twice a week, I will
get an email asking if I want to
go bridge jumping. It just so hap-
pens that every time I get this
email I have “important” things
to do. Last time my hair was re-
ally dirty and I had to wash it.
The time before that, I had to
watch an episode of Saved by
the Bell. It’s not that I’m afraid
or anything. I mean jumping off
a bridge into a river seems like a
perfectly safe endeavor, espe-
cially for a man that barely
passed the swim test. But one
day I will grow the proverbial
guts and do it, however, this will
not happen this year.

I also did not make it out to
Goshen this spring. I can hear
people yelling and screaming at
me, “You didn’t go to Goshen?!?
What are you, some antireli—
gious, apathetic, nerd?” This is
the one thing I really wanted to

do spring term. All my friends
go and have a great time, while I
always have some big project
that I put off until the last rriinute.
I’m gonna try to get out there
before the year is over, but it’s
not looking good. So as one
person told me, “If you don’t go
to Goshen by the end of this
year, you should go and live in a
hole with Osama, because you
don’t deserve to be here.”

As I was cleaning out my
closet, I found my ﬁshing poles
that I had planned to use all the
time. Well once again, my line
has yet to get wet, and it’s a good
thing for the fish, because this
Idaho angler would have caught
my lirriit and then some, because
real ﬁshermen ignore pesky laws
and regulations.

Even though I have missed
out on doing all these things
that make Lexington and the sur-
rounding area great, I have got-
ten to do so many other things.
Buffalo Creek, Outer Banks, and
even learning sometimes. It just
goes to show that there is no
possible way to (fit all the joys of

 

 

 

BEING FRATTY. Phi Psis enjoy the outdoors at Buffalo Creek lastweekend. .

Dubyanell into one year. Some— A I
thing tells me that even after four
years, I still will not have done

everything I wanted to do.
Sounds like a good reason
to stay for a ﬁfth year huh?

Students strip on Lenfest stage and address social questions in song

BY JORDAN ANDERSON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Hair contains a scene of full ﬁontal nudity. It seems

foralong time.

The live band playing the music in the background

that the scene was added solely to make it that much
more controversial, but its there, and the W&L produc-
tion delivered what it had promised There were W&L
students, bearing it all on stage. Nudity aside, the natine
of the performance itself still has a lot of things to say.
To recreate the turbulent sixties using Washington
and Lee students wasn’t nearly as hard as it sounds.
The costumes were good typical hippie garb — vests,
embroidered jeans, etc. Despite most likely being con-
servative and polo loving by nature, the actors them-
selves performed well in character. This was apparent on
Friday afternoon, when several of the students went

around campus singing protest and peace-loving songs,

alsoaddedtothemoodoftlieplayastheypurnpedout
songs straight from the era, fully dressed in 60s attire.
Many of the songs contain insightful or deep lyrics that
delve into issues as complex as the natiue of man. The
light hearted theme and happier songs are intertwined
and the carefree attitude of the hippies remains through-
out, despite a clearly darker, more realistic undertone.
Thus what the audience gets is an enjoyable play with
soirie real meaning behind it.

Hairwasﬁrstreleasedin 1968, anditcame witiian
enormous amount of controversy. Given its content and
the context of the time, it is no surprise. Not to mention
the actual musical doesn’t really have any actual direc-
tion. The musical has no plot. The entire first halfhour of

TI-

A WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI
AsssOcIATION AND KATI
CORDIALLY INVITES ALL

OF T}

BBQ by Harik’s*Dessert and beverages
Fireworks at 9:05 pm

Entertainment by Southern Comfort, jubilee, General
Admission, and addresses by Homecoming Cluster
Chairs Ansel Sanders and Brooks Morgan

Must be present to receive your senior gift

- CLASS OF 2004 TO:

SENIOR
  NIGHT

Wednesday May 26, 2004

liberty Hall Ruins, 7:00 pm until 9:00 pm
Class Photo at 7:15 pm SHARP!

*.KON
TMBERS

exists, and its fun to watch the strange dynamic of all the
hippies interact- 
ing and living

    

with one another. disagree with the philosophy of
However, the doing nothing and instead go for
undeniable themore contemporaryAmeiican
themethat gives dream, Hair gives an interesting
this‘ play its mo- view into the alternative that reﬂects
rnentumis war. a core American ideal. The debate _
It is not co— at its core, which has so much per— I S
incidence that tinence today, is the dichotomy of
Hair started see- engaging in your freedom of dislik-
ing a revival a ing war and disagreeing with gov-

year or two ago. Hair is performance on the cam-
pus isn’t about protesting the war. I am willing to say
that Hair 3" performance in the 60s wasn’t about protest-

  

a sight that Washington and Lee probably has not seen ' the second act is a drug trip. A love story somewhat irig the war. The thing about the hippies in Hair is that

they feel that they are exercising their American right to
" ' do nothing, and enjoy their Ameri-
can freedom. Though most of us

en or going to ﬁght for your freedom to have
those dislikes. The question remains today, just like it
did 35 years ago.

Past editors imagine perfect Phi

BY KATIE HOWELL, CATHERINE GUY, BRETT T. KIRWAN
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS I’

Back when we ran the Phi, things were differ-
ent. And by different, we mean better. None of this
journalistic objectivity garbage, no, the Phi was a
shill for the University and a mouthpiece for the
Bush Administration. Since we’ll be loyal subscrib-
ers next year (as all alumni should be), some sug-
gestions for future editions based on our experi-
ences:

Quick Hits: Now here’s something we wish
we had thought of sooner— all the fun of insults
and sarcasm with none of the accountability. In
the future, all the Quick Hits should be about Brett,
or Jeb, or Brett and Jeb. Kudos to editors who re-
member to use “kudos” a lot. Don’t forget those
lame ones about who discovered what when or
whose birthday it is.

Hidden Heroes: Student involvement and lead-
ership rarely receive the recognition they deserve
because W&L is such a large and diverse campus.
Hidden Heroes has made an effort to right this
wrong but has left some student leaders neglected
and unsung. Hopefully, we will read about Helen
Hughes, Brian Castleberry, Thomas Worthy and
Marie Trimble next year because at W&L, “hid-
den” and “unsung” really mean “in the limelight”
and “shouted from the rooftops.” ‘

Staff Editorial: Isn’t the administration great?
Don’t you love puppies, apple pie and your mom?
Real newspapers stake out clear positions on con-
troversial issues and are unafraid to speak truth to
power. Under our direction, however, the Phi never
shied away from reminding students to pick up

litter or compliment the Trustees’ wives on their beau-
tiful spring outﬁts.

Opinions Page: What happened to hard-hitting, . _
must—read commentary on sweatshops? The Phi has ' ‘

gone soft. Next year, we want more love letters to
President Bush and less “diversity.” Who needs
writers from the left when you can print articles blam-
ing the common cold and hangnails on the Women’s
Studies program?

Tim Smith: We must admit, we never giessed
that rambling articles about frat cups and short skirts
could be so popular. He even earned a first—place

Virginia Press Association award! Whatever will they . - _

do next year without the Absolut Fratlord?

News: Whoever said “No news is good news”
was an idiot. N 0 news means late Sunday nights and
boring stories about dull Contact speakers like that
Polish guy. We couldn’t wait for “Something of
Value” to happen so we could publish a three-part
series. Oooh, Homecoming, Alumni Weekend, hap-
pens every year, but both get front—page billing at
the Phi.

Oﬁice Politics: Matt McDerrnott may have been
the face of the Phi, but we were the brains. JEBl
you’ll always be our “Dancing Queen.” And further-
more, there’s been altogether too much job security
this year. We expect that editors, writers and photog-
raphers will resume leaving the Phi like rats leaving a
sinking ship just to keep things interesting.

We commend the staff for all their hard work
this past year. No doubt our minds will drift back to
the Phi office on future Sunday nights. 

Couple announces engagement

Pl l( )T() <:( )URTI£SY KATHY \X/A

 

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

Ms. Sharon l-Ming of
Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania wishes to
aruiounce the engagement of her daugh-
ter, Miss Katharine Jeng—ni Wang to Mr.
Lawrence McKenny, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur 0. McKenny of Warrenton, Vir-
giriia.

Wang is a member of the class of 2005
and McKenny is a member of the class of
2004. McKenny and Wang started dating
last September.

The couple plan to stay in Virginia
after their wedding. McKenny plans on
starting his own business while Wang will
attend graduate school.

The wedding is set for June 11, 2005
in Lee Chapel.

 

'1 PAGE 6

'— and more every year, meeting
' more people, getting involved in

 

THE

I’ve racked my brain for hours trying to ﬁnd a suitable topic for
my last article. Even though I haven’t been writing as long as some
more celebrated campus columnists, I still feel an immense responsi-

' - ; bility to compose the greatest article ever. While I most likely will not

succeed in that goal, I’ll do my best.

It seems like with each progressive year at W&L, I’ve gotten
more and more involved with this school and this community. And

. so, graduation scares me. It’s not that I’m scared of moving on - I

recognize now that in order to reach my goal of being the greatest

' college professor ever, I’1linvariably have to take the next step. But

I hesitate, because graduation seems like such an unfulﬁlling climax.
It’s tough to imagine doing more

ABSOLUT FRATLORD
TIM SMITH ‘04

more campus activities and so
forth, and then have it all end
suddenly in the June heat. That

: frightens me. I’ve poured a lot of my heart and soul into this place,

and in one instant a few days from now, I’ll walk into a different
world. A new one. I
Ifl could choose, this new world would still be in Lexington. I’d

' : . love to continue pouring that heart and soul into W&L by working for
' 5 the school. I’d love to continue my life in this community that has ﬁt

me so well. I’ve got a lot left to give. And since I’m staring at umpteen
years of grad school before I reach my eventual goal, I’m in no rush.
But when life takes me on a path away from Lexington, I won’t be

' disappointed. This experience has given me so many amazing memo-

ries that Lexington will never feel that far away. And so, I feel a need
to give recognition to the most amazing thing about W&L — it’s
people. And so, as my final act as the Absolute Frat Lord, I’ll do my
best to pay tribute to those people who’ve made these past four
years special. ‘

Ian Mcllroy, it’s been almost 15 years since we met in 3“ grade.
You’ve been my best friend since then, and I know you will continue

7 A to be in the future. Bryan Early, we’ve come full circle, and I trust and

respect you more than any man I’ve ever known.‘ Michael McClintock

Denbow, thanks for giving me my newspaper moniker and my online

 PWORD

ODAC identity. That freshman trip in the poop truck was one of a kind.

To the brothers of Lambda Chi, thanks for tolerating me
throughout the years. Kilanski, thanks for being my apprentice.
Squares, thanks for the musical exploits. Tom, thanks for the en-
thusiasm which has kept my love for the greatest sport on earth to
thrive. »

To Professor Porter, thanks for the advice and support, for

being a teacher and a friend. To Hutch and Kadlubowski, thanks
for making feel like a part of the team. To Jeremy Franklin, thanks
for letting me take my love for sports to a new level.

To Trotter, Caramore, Neuman, Todd, and Kerry, thanks for
the countless games of basketball, and giving me something con-
structive to do in the afternoons. To Pops, Seth, Marshall, Kowal,
and even Creigh Creigh for the greatest intramural run that Lambda
has ever seen.

To Liz King, thanks for a delightfully unique friendship, and
the most random and memorable Feb break ever. To Sessions,
thanks for humoring me for all these years. Griesemer, thanks for
reminding me why Wind Ensemble was not just an excuse to play in
the Jazz Ensemble. Falzareno, thanks for the Chi—O formal shirt.

To all the fraternity guys of W&L, thanks for not driving me .

completely insane over intramurals. Blair and Nancy, thanks for the
occasional company in that drab office. To Callie, Katie, and “The
Body” Jack Murray, thanks for the exhilarating 9AM discussions.
Now that was a fun time.

i To my WV delegation, thanks for picking up my slack — poli-
tics never was my thing, and you all deserve the credit for covering
my complete and utter lack of knowledge. To Chris Tully, thanks
for the opportunity to make music and get attention, two things I’ll
always love. It’s too bad Smokestax ever had to end.

To Sheep, Marshall, and Harrison, thanks for that OBX trip.
Easily the best time of my senior year — furthermore, Big Dune Long
Jump is the greatest picture ever.

To the Ring-tum Phi, thanks for the opportunity to write. It’s
been a heck of a run, and thanks for not cutting me loose the billion
times you were tempted to. I write this knowing full well my article
is currently several hours overdue. The truth is, I could go on
forever, thanking all the people at W&L for the memories I’ll hold

BREITT. KIRWAN

ACllNGAKIS&LIFEEDl'IOR
1<itwanb@wl

ucdu
Mom, MAY 24, 2004

Fratlord bids adieu to those who made W&L special

after graduation. I wanted so badly to resist a final “shout—outs”
article, because it’s tremendously sappy and corny, and I’ll invari-
ably leave out hundreds of people who deserve just as much trib-
ute. But in the end, I predictably caved in.

And so, all I can do is give my ﬁnal recommendation, the ﬁnal
nugget of wisdom that the Absolute Frat Lord will bequeath to the
W&L community. College, whether it’s this one or any other, is not
about going to class. It’s not about grades or independence of
freedom from authority or any of those things. It’s not about frater-
nities and sororities or drinking or parties.

College is amazing because of the people. It’s a community,
just like any other, but better than any other. There are so many things
to love about W&L, but more than any of them, I love the people. And
in my ﬁnal line in my final article, I’m glad to have the opportunity to
show my appreciation to everyone who has made these four years
memorable. Thank you. *

  
   

ULTIMATE. The Absolut Fratlord plays his faxl;Ic{>i3iTt(§ sport with Farhan
Mustafa, a fraternity brother of years past.

Greek participation enriches the W&L experience

I have noticed that, in re-
cent years, our campus has
seemed to move toward an anti-
Greek attitude. Also, this being my
last article, I thought it might be
pleasant to end on a more posi-
tive note, as opposed to some of
my previous ramblings. Therefore,

   
 

vulgar, and somewhat awkward
persona in addition a head full of
stubborn, northern anti—sorority
notions. Freshman year went by
quickly, and believing myself to
have been unhappy, I left just af-
ter winter term. I attended Boston
University fall term of my sopho-

in combining more year
these two prefac- THE NAKED TRUTH and, as the
ing notions Ihave ‘ s a y i n g
made the decision COURTNEY PERRY  goes, you
to reminisce about never truly

I ‘ the one aspect of my college ca-

reer that has changed my life in
ways no other experience could. I

_ - would like to dedicate this article
i to the fabulous, the wonderful,

the darling sisters of Pi Beta Phi.
Now, don’t hurt yourself as
you roll your eyes unnaturally far
back into your head, dear read-
ers. I don’t typically consider my-
self to be a sentimental person,
but I feel my situation regarding
the Greek system is a bit unique,

' - and, as this an opinion column, I

am determined to offer my opin-
ion despite the stigrnas and ste-
reotypes, and you can choose to
read of it what you will.

I arrived on this campus
roughly three and a half years ago
with an immature, uneducated,

realize what you have until it’s
gone. Being the conifort—zone ori-
ented person that I am, I guess I
just didn’t realize that what I
thought was unhappiness, was
only change. I came back to W&L
Winter Term knowing I wanted to
be a Pi Phi and be with all the
friends I had known the previous
year. I accepted a bid the Sunday
before rush week, and, thankfully,
never had to go through formal
recruitment.

I would never have gone
anywhere else, despite all the
lmown stereotypes. At 5’6” and
121 pounds on a good day, I don’t
exactly think ‘Pi Beta Fat’ applies
to me, and if being a member of
the ‘nice, smart girl sorority’ on
campus is a bad thing, then Lord

knows I have no desire to be cool
(the criteria for being ‘cool’ on this
campus has never suited my
tastes). For only having known
them a year, those girls were some
of the best friends I’d ever had in
my life, and I was proud to be able
to call them sisters.

Since my pledgesliip I have
put my heart and soul into that
organization and am happy to say
that I have gotten more than that
in return. As Chapter Treasurer for
a year, and assistant treasurer be-
fore that I’ve seen the good the
bad and the ugly as far as soror-
ity life goes.

Practically speaking, I
learned a lot about budgets, bank
reconciliations, revenues and ex-
penses. As an accounting major
these are skills that will stay with
me and help me in my business
endeavors for the rest of my life.
Personally speaking, I acquired
more social skills and fond memo-
ries that will stay with me, in all
aspects, for the rest of my life.

Forme, it wasn’tthefomials,
or the crush parties, or the mixers
at UVA. It was the drunken
snackfests at the sorority house
at 3 a.m. after everyone had got-
ten back from the frat parties. It

was the informal gatherings in the

TV room every Sunday night to V

watch Sex and the City. It was truth
or dare on the front porch, DDR
until 2 a.m., and Krystal Kitchen
$5 buffets on the weekends. I’ve
never been one for bulls&%t, and
I can honestly say that, I may, not
know a]l90girlsaswel1asIkno,W
the few closest to me, I may not
always agree with the decisions
that are made, and there may be
times when I want to go on a ho-
micidal rampage. . .but there is not
a single girl whom I could not sit
down next to at lunch.
On the other hand, I would
be the very last person to deny
the fact that there are bad times.
Late night exec meetings until
la.m., T—shirt design drama that
gets so exaggerated you’d think
the world was about to end, the
impossibility of pleasing every-
one all the time, the rumors, the
gossip, and the storytelling.
If you look around there is

no such thing as a stereotypical

Pi Phi. Sure, we do have the nice
girls, and the smart girls, but we’ve
got some bad ones too (and some-
how they all end up in my family).
We’ve got some drinkers, some
smokers, some dancers, some

SISTAHOOD! Hopefully, your Greek life is just as nice as Perry’s at Pi Phi.

singers; We’ve got girls in all ma-
jors, from all parts of the globe,
from all economic backgrounds,
of all shapes and sizes. However,
there is one thing that, in my opin-
ion, we all have in common: we all
want to be here. When the dust
settles after rush every year there
is a home for everyone, whether it
be a house with letters on the front
or not.

I would like to send a spe-
cial thanks to the Pi Beta Phi class
of 2004, for having given me a
home for the past four years.
Thank you also to all the 2003 exec
members who stood beside me
through all the blood sweat and
tears; and finally, thank you to the
best sorority family ever, the Fallen
Angels— it wouldn’t be home
with out you.

  

THIS ISSUE IS me LAST RING-TUM PHI FOR me 2003/2004 SCHOOL YEAR. OUR NEXT ISSUE WILL come out MONDAY,

SEPTEMBER 6, 2004.

 

 E   . Q Jake Shelton— I hope you’re enjoying that
2 E  ‘ E 3 International Male catalog.

Q Why was there a girl wearing a tube top in
the gym last week? This is W&L," people. Pearls
are okay in the gym— tube tops are not!

Q Old House. Tonight, 9 p.m. Be there.

Q Doesn’t it annoy you that only the good die

phi@wlu.edu

Q I wish I were as cool as Pete Jones.

Q I’m really jealous of the girl who got to take
Kenny Kraft to the Pi Phi semi.

Q On for love or money: Love is great, but it
does not buy me new handbags.

Q Smile! You could be on hidden camera.

Q Now that the school year is coming to a close,
there are a few innocent freshman girls who would
like to send a message to one very inconsiderate
freshman guy: PEE IN YOUR OWN BED FROM
NOW ON!

Q Not Buffalo Creek but . . . I lost my Nalgene.
Mock Con weekend. At Windfall. In the back of
some guy’s unlocked car. I don’t know whose car it
was, but my “special friend” and I sure do thank
you!

Q Don’t let Matt Watson tell you otherwise:
He is awful at Beirut, and he will lose the World
Series.

Q I would like to apologize for us Northemers.
We confused all “y’all’s” Confederate ﬂags as
Southern.

Q If this school is so northern, then why isn’t
Ulysses S. Grant buried on campus?

Q Saying this school is northern is like saying
EC trials are fair.

Q Have a question? Ask Sam Kello, the resi-
dent expert on everything.

Q Don’t let Matt Watson tell you otherwise:
He is awful at Beirut, and he will lose the World
Series. ‘

Q Best W&L email addresses: hooka, leech,
lover, guys, thickman, lambs and ballot. (There are
probably more, but these are the best ones I have
so far).

Q IfRobert E. Lee had an email address it would
be leer@wlu.edu. Kind of creepy for him, kind of
dorky for me because I actually took thirty sec-
onds out of my life to ﬁgure out what Robert E.
Lee’s email address would be.

Q What does Tom White do when the weather

gets nice?

young and nice guys ﬁnish last but cheaters never
prosper?

Q Will it ever stop raining?

Q Would you rather have a unicorn horn or a

monkey tail?

Q Best website ever: What Would Uncle Jesse

Do? wwm wwujd.com

Q Do you have to do a lot of athletic training to

become a good social climber?

Q Be sure to participate in the Senior Pledge

Project if you haven’t yet.

Q Buffalo Creek seemed somewhat low key this
year. The fireworks were nice, but the lack of drunks
mudding with frat brothers clinging to the luggage
rack was a bit of a downer.

Q Plan ahead and swipe something home for
Father’s Day. Dad will appreciate the irony.

Q Three cheers for the Student Athlete Men-
tors. You carry on your important work unnoticed
and unthanked.

Q Best of luck to Horst Kohler and Chen Shui -

bian, the recently elected presidents of Germany

and Taiwan, ROC, respectively.

Q Arrggh! The Indians won five in a row only
to be swept by the Devil Rays!?! Could the base-
ball gods be any more cruel?

Q Birthday kudos to IRM, KBC, Tommy Chong,

Bob Dylan, Igor Sikorsky and Heavy D.

Q Chris Lauderrnan is the only reason I go to

Lambda Chi.

(1) One line Quick Hits are the hardest to write.

Q This is the last Quick Hit Brett Kirwan will
ever write. How sad.

Q Don’t e-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu because this is the last issue of the
year.

 

