 

Arch

 

<3 "573 . 75 5
R :52.
v. i 07 ,
V7 0 . Q I . ‘
W W L U
4 ASHINGTON AND EE NIVERSITY  
A ~ '
, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004 ~ I
  T/76 smdem‘ tom of Waibmgton and Lee Umvertzgy me 7897
4.
Pl't'l dfi 'lt°
BY KATHERINE SHELL ‘ em -1- -V 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER . j"
l
With this year’s election date near-
4 ing, as George W. Bush and Dick Cheney
prepare to face John Kerry and John
Edwards in the 2004 Presidential Elec-
tion, the College Republicans and the
4 Young Democrats make their plans for
Election Day on campus. Both commit-
tees havebeen inﬂuential in enabling
students to become registered voters,
through absentee ballots and online reg-
4 istration. As November 2 approaches,
plans have been made among both
groups to further support the GOP and
the Democratic Party.
A During Orientation Week, the
College Republicans held a drive to reg-
ister new voters and also to give stu-
dents the opportunity to become a Col-
lege Republican. This semester, the CRs
Vi are holding various parties to watch the
President speak. CR5 have also been
volunteering in the Bush—Cheney ‘O4
phone bank in Lexington as well as for
4 other Republican campaigns across the
‘ state of Virginia.
“Because this area [of] VA is
not an extrernly contested state, we are
offering our campaign assistance to
it other areas,” said Rachael Seidenschnur
’06, chair of the College Republicans. ,
“On Election Day, we will be poll watch— ‘ .
ing and holding signs at precinct poll- _ _ _ _ i _ _ KELLY_B°55 /  R_’NG‘T”MlP‘”
ing places.» other plans for this year ln_ POLITICAL SHOWDOWN. Members of the College Republicans and Young Democrats are actively working to help their respective parties win the upcoming presidential election.

A elude a Second Amendment App1_eCla_ Each group has several events planned leading up to the Nov. 2 poll.

tion Day as well as a winter term debate have several social events planned to Democrats. termine undecided voters. more about either committee should con-
with the Young Democrats. get students excited about the election On Election Day, the Young I On Election Night, the College tact Rachael Seidenschnur at
For the Young Democrats, and to encourage students to watch the Democrats will work to have as many Republicans and the Young Democrats seidenschnurr@wlu.edu or Joanna
4 plans on campus include the upcoming upcoming debates and keep informed Kerry supporters as possible come out will host a joint party as the final votes Persio at persioj@wlu.edu or visit the
Blue Dog Bash at the W&L Pavillion on about election issues,” says Joanna to vote. The Young, Democrats have are cast and counted. websites: http://republicans.wlu.edu

September 29. “Over the next month, we Persio, ’O5, president of the Young also been working phone banks to de— Anyone interested in learning and http://youngdemocrats.wlu.edu.

0 I I L ,
311113118 111'! . S ll 911 S I‘ n erna iona s u en s now
«C Sec t°tdtaeto It t ltdt
0 6‘ 0 " V ‘-  » A
, blame for recent parking difﬁculties eileelliilei diffielliliee til ling
BY ROB ARMSTRONG the main factor contributing to the parking problem is un-
W  355-hm   the   to stud in the l lnited States
4 University parking continues to hassle W&L commut— tickets. . .it was pretty clear to me what is causing the prob-
ers this year. On weekdays it is often difficult for students lem,” Tomlinson said. “In about anhour, an hour and ahalf,
with registered vehicles to ﬁnd available parking spots at the I wrote 22 tickets. And that was only on the 1“ and 2"“ BY ERIN JULIUS
University garage, forcing them to search for any available ﬂoors.” EDn.OR_lN_CH1EF
‘ parking on city streets. In other words, student abuse of parking privileges is V
A student with a University parking permit must cough the main source of the problem. Tomlinson noted that 21 All around the country, colleges and unlversltles have seen the.“ lmema_
E19350 2” th‘f'tpnV1leg:‘ 1::tt°::n reg‘; °“t_ﬂt‘° 2: nclljietls he Wrote were f°r un‘ tional student population encounter difficulties as a result of the tense world
ra ion oesn guaran ee a ere w “ regis ere ve c es. ollmalo
be 3 SP0‘ aV311ab1§- . _ The other days I was Th€.22"d C3Ihad1'lghtSt°_l9aTk°n1Y This year’s election has prompted much attention to recent world events,
‘ Halsrﬂlle Unlgerslb?’ rtegmered too dOW1'l [III thé garage] all thetﬁavlisongratenuw Parkmg lot °“ including the September 11 attacks, the Iraq War and the development of the
32:23.35 ‘§§§$° ° 3 “ ‘’ a°°°‘“‘“‘* writing tickets-~—it was  i‘7§§}..°.e°-.~.§’§““..‘l'ii§;. anunre is- "°Pa““‘e“‘°.”‘°‘“°‘*‘““.S°°“‘i‘Y- . .
Aclcyordiiig to campus security the Pretty Clear to me what is tered vehicle on caIII)1puSi§$100 “The The mam problem lS“1arger[scho‘o1S]Wlth graduate programs whlch rely
’ ' very heavily on foreign student enrollments,” said Dr. Vlfilliam Klingelhofer,
.. . “Th  . i ' 1 ’ b I  . f ' th ' V ' ‘ ' 46 7!
-  ,...;:°s:.. .. causmg the problem? :.:::::.:: .:;:;::::.%. .13  ""*‘~°"‘*;g‘°",**“" we sgmgr of   we  ,, ,
’ ’ re‘ tu t , , ' t th t’ , ”
We’ve got a total of 541 registered Stu- STEPHENITOMHNSON explained. Said. ore o igns en s owever are oo nga o er op ions nge 0 er
den‘ Vehicles designated for those ASJT. DIR. OF UMVERSHY SECURITY C°11°g° Students at “her cam‘ In larger school such as the University of Virginia, international students
spaces,” explained Stephen T. Tomlinson, puses have found alternative ways I0 have run into problems obtaining visas as a result of stricter Department of
4 Associate Director of University Security. l _ get to class, including using roller blades or bicycles. Homeland Security regulations Kllngolllofor deﬁnes international students as
f l The 541 reglstered vehicf:les :10 whicll(lTon1linsorIi is re— f lh Ba: Ill] the 22 yezliirs that Tomlinson llliash been working students who llvo -m forelgn Countries and roqulro visas. Admissions may de_
erring compose o a variety 0 stu ent par. ng perrni s. or e as ington an ee community, e as never seen ﬁne international students differently, such as those wllll dual Clllzsnshlps or
Country parking (more than 1/2 mile from campus) - students use bikes past their firstldays as freshman. l even as Amorloans llvlng abroad’ Klingelhofer sald_
ll 3648 . kl _ h I See the freshmen mfwe 1“ and Put “P th?“ blkes ‘ f‘We have not had a student denied a visa in quite a few years,” said Amy
oronty par ng 68 on t e racks next to Graham Lees. Then those bikes stay Rlohwmo the lmomallonal Student Advlsorl
Dorm Counselor/Resident Adviser — 29 there for four years. We’ve had seniors come and tell us Richwine oxplalnod Why very few of Washlngton and Iﬁe7s lmsmatlonal
31311135 2311 £6890 ihetlr b:ik:hwaStSltl°1e“; “:6 _aSk tgwmhwhe“ they, V;hSe°n It students encounter difficulties obtaining permission to study in the United
00 s ree — as an ey e us no since res man year. en we Slat _ «Al UV ll lh ll d- tud t l ll -th m_
4 I There are a handful of other types of vehicles, includ- asklif they’ve had it locked  and the typical response is donfssoomlng frgm lhffll/ll2lll‘:l€l:oaEI:lls.t1:é_vl,1:tl:l:lS‘:3esverl:: rflev13(si)l:1d:n?sr1f:o/ﬁn thnolclglelgdle
ing those belonging to Umversity and faculty, that have not no . ”Tomlinson chuckled, There s not much we can do East or any of the .axls of evil Countries, partly because We have no mosque or
been taken into account. Tomlinson believes, however, that there. local Islamic community to support
them,” she said. u - -

I Nevertheless, between fall of It Is. What We h_Opf_: is a temporary

" 2001 and the fall of2004, the number signiﬁcant dip In freshmen
of incoming international students in elll_»Ol1ment__.the general trend ls
the freshmen class dropped by half, l. d d d .th
said Klingelhofer. “It is what we hope Omar an upwar W1

A is a temporary signiﬁcant dip in fresh- International students.”
men enrollment. . .the general trend is DR WHLMM KLINGELHOFER
forward and upward with Intema- .
tional students,” he said. DIRECTOR OF

A During the same time period, INTERN/iiIoi\MLEDUcAiIoN.
Washington and Lee Law’s intema-
tional student population increased.
hi 2001, the Law School had 4 international students. By fall of 2004, that
number increased ﬁve times, to 20 international students.

ll At the same time, the number of international students already enrolled in
the University is extraordinary. “Last year a record number of international
students graduated, and they represented 23 countries,” Richwine said.

As far as long-term affects on America’s higher education system,
. Klingelhofer said the economic impact of a dropping international student en-
1 rolhnent could be signiﬁcant. “Graduate students [from abroad] bring unprec-
edented talent,” he said, calling the diminishing numbers a “reverse brain—drain."
C"RB‘N BLACKFORD / THE RINGTUM PH’ A loss of these great minds, combitied with the possible loss of a “staggering”
IT’s YOUR OWN DAMN FAULT. At least, that’s what Campus Security says is the cause of recent parking problems. According to amount of money generated by illlel-llaiiollal students’ could pemlallemiy dam-
A Stephen Tomlinson, Assistant Drector of campus security, student abuse of parking areas is the problem. age American higher education, Klingelhofer Said

 
   

  

,,»lAMtf“SG. LIEYEBURN-I.r8l‘odra‘-2
V-“'\tHl‘07\t 8‘ LEE .OnlraoI3a‘sm'
e 'r~w-r:*r:",+\t VA 24457)

SE? 2 8 200%-
PAGE 2

MONDAY, SEPIERMBER 27, 2004

VMI professor found dead
following heart tk

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
STAFF WRITER

A 60 year old VMI professor was found dead
Thursday evening, apparently the victim of a sudden
heart attack. A cadet discovered Col. Michael S. Harris,
who was rushed to Stonewall Jackson Hospital and

pronounced dead, according to VMI ofﬁcials.

“It’s deﬁnitely a shock, there’s no question
about that,” explained Lt. Col. Stewart Maclnnis, As-
sociate Director of Communications and Marketing. “It
would be one thing if it were expected, but no one surely

had seen this coming.”

“[Harris] was a very well respected member of
the faculty,” Maclnnis added. “He touched a lot of

lives.”

Harris was on the faculty at the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute for 32 years. A professor of French and
Spanish, Harris served as head of the Department of Modern Languages and Cultures since 1993.

‘ Harris’ cousin is making the ftmeral arrangements. Harris did not have family in the Lexing-
ton area and the funeral will be held close to his family’s hometown in Chicago. VMI ofﬁcials have
yet to make plans regarding ‘a local memorial service.

  

COL. MICHAEL S. HARRIs

Students urged to get involved in the
community during Nabors Service Day

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

At Washington and Lee, all students are
encouraged to get involved in the community. One
of the best ways to do this is at the upcoming
Nabors Service Day.

On October 9, students will join together
in a group effort to make a difference in Rockbridge
County.

There will be numerous different activitie,
including garbage pickup on House Mountain and

work at nearby schools. Whatever your interest,
there is no doubt you will be able to find commu-
nity service that you will enjoy.

Diane Kuhn ‘07, who serves as Issues
Awareness Chair of the organization, says that “the
best part about Nabors is the chance to truly make
a difference in the county. It gives us all a chance
to put a little back into this small community.”

In addition to many service projects,
Nabors will also be bringing in awareness speak-

ers. To get involved, contact Jill Waity ‘05,

N abors’ General Chair.

Homecoming events set

BY DIANA DOZIER
STAFF WRITER

Homecoming weekend here at Washington
and Lee rapidly approaches, promising a weekend
filled with tailgating, sporting events, concerts, and
much more. Kicking off this September 30th, plenty
of alumni will make their armual pilgrimage to the
campus to take part in the festivities.

On Friday there are numerous activities, from
the Hike Up House Mountain sponsored by the
Outing Club to checking out the open houses at
DuPont Hall, Reid Hall, and the Fitness Center.
Also, that evening even W&L students can find
their fair share of parties at the various fraternity
houses. ,

“I’m looking forward to the return of all
alumni, the celebration of football, and especially
the dedication of Huntley Hall Williams School,”
said President Burish, who is excited about the
upcoming weekend. The dedication will take place

at 11 a.m. Saturday morning. The Mink Rally be-
gins at 11:30 at the Doremus Lawn, featuring the
band Loose Change, lunch, and a chance to mingle
with the alumni.

At 1:30, the football team will take on
Randolph-Macon at Wilson Field. Half-time will
include the 2004 Athletic Hall of Fame Inductees
and the crowning of the 2004 Homecoming Queen;
afterwards fans are encouraged to stay and watch
the exciting second half of the football game.

Football isn’t the only sport competing this
weekend. If you time it right, you can swing by and
catch a little of each game, starting with men’s soc-
cer at 1 1:00 a.m., followed the football game at 1:30,
women’s soccer at 3:00, and women’s volleyball at
4:00. Then students above legal drinking age can
head over to the Virginia Vlfine Tasting at the Lib-
erty Ruins at 5:00p.m. and afterwards enjoy some
good old fashioned barbeque from 6:00 to 8:00.

For the complete schedule, go to http://
alumniapps.wlu.edu/HC2004/schedule.htm.

Beta plans charity dodgeball tournament

BY JORDAN ANDERSON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

The game of Dodgeball is
simple — two teams of ﬁve, three
balls, one line dividing the two
teams. The object is, of course,
to dodge the balls and to try and
nail your opponents. If you catch
a ball thrown at you, then one of
your teammates who had failed
to dodge a ball gets to come back
in. First team to eliminate all of
their opponents wins.

We all know the rules.
It is one of the simplest games to
be played on the elementary
school playground. However,
with the recent summer block-
buster and the reemergence of
“pro” dodgeball leagues, this fun
little game has become a full

TALKBACK: Have you ever had problerns arking on campus?

 

“Yes, the parking garage
has been really full.”
—Elizabeth Amoni ‘O5

 

 

ls

“People like to park right by “The parking garage is
you, so opening your door
can be a pain.”
—Max Vilenchik ‘O8

terrible. Every time you go
in or out, you almost get in
a wreck.”

—Kelly Price ‘O7

 

“I’ve never had any
trouble.”
—Mallory Lobisser ‘O7

blown sport.

This past summer, jun-
iors Tim Blair and Dan
McMenamin competed in a small
dodgeball tournament organized
by a bar in New York City. Upon
their return, they convinced the
W&L chapter (presently sus-
pended) of Beta Theta Pi to or-
ganize a dodgeball tournament
for the students of Washington
& Lee. Similar to the various fun
runs for charity, the dodgeball
tournament will have several
teams, each with an entry fee that
will go to beneﬁting a charity.

Though much of the
speciﬁcs are still in development,
the tentative date thus far is Sat-
urday, October 9'*‘ behind the
Pole Houses. Currently the

 

“The parking garage is so
small...During the day, if
you leave it’s almost
impossible to get a spot.”
—]enny Scott ‘O6

money will go to beneﬁt hurricane
victims or the Red Cross. The fee
will be $25 for teams, and so far
support looks very good.

The games will follow
traditional rules, and if support
is strong enough, there will be
two separate brackets for gender.
Teams should be completely
open ended, with no restrictions.
The winners will be rewarded in
some way, but the reward has not
been decided on yet. Blair and
McMenamin are completely
Open to ideas, and e—mails are
very welcome.

Currently the organiz-
ers are looking for referees and
further support. All inquiries can
be e-mailed to Blair or
McMenamin.

 

 

“I have a dorm counselor
pass, so I can park ‘
anywhere. I’m also tight
with security, so I can park
illegally for about a day.”
—Chris Walker ‘O5

Mall

40,000 Square Feet
160+ Dealers

or apartment.

Sunday 11 a.m.- 6 p.m.
(540) 464-5555

The Antique

760 N. Lee Highway
College Square Shopping Center

Area's Largest Antique Mall, specializing in used
furniture and “cool" accessories for the “cool" house

There's something for everyone!
Monday—Saturday 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.

Enjoy writing?
(I3

Join us at
THE RING-TUM PHI

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps; Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststrave|.cOm.

Energetic, Enthusiastic, & Motivated?

If you ﬁt these three categories call

ROCKBRIDGE

MEMORIAL GARDENS
today at 

We have a full—time position forour sales
staff and one for a family service counselor.

Career includes paid training and all
company beneﬁts apply.

Don’t wait, call today!

Florist

Teleﬂora Wire Service
Corsages & Bouts
Gift & Fruit Baskets

Flowers & Things

For the “Unique” at aﬁordable prices!

Balloons & Fresh Arrangements
Daily Lexington Delivery (if Ordered by 12)‘
All major credit cards accepted

Call 540-261-6300 or 1-800-872-6156
2463 Beech Ave., Buena Vista, Va. 24416 '

Check

Sires: Minis!
Choca/afe Bandaidsl
Kick/iss Popcorn!

lVIonday—Satui'day 10 a.m.i — 5:30 p.rn.
Sunday Noon _— 4:00 9311.
. 13 South 1\/Iain Street
‘ 464-4433

wvvw;funfoodsforyou.corn _

Like No Other?
Shop

Vou've Seen!
6/'f'f:s' & Snac/cs‘

 _ _Fg‘q/if _A// Occas/'an.§f__g
01' Our Tea Room
(Serving Premium Teas, Light Fare 6: Sweets)

_Body Frvsfirgl Student Care Packqges

.$arnefhity for Everyone

Abveliy Candies
éifr Baske 1':

Fun Foods

. 8‘
Accessories

W&L’s
most
trusted
source
for  
news

*-

  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

Si§i}i\Fii§l:EliDITORIAL

Is a two-week break enough?

We realize it’s September. But
we’re thinking ahead. To Santa Claus,
to snow, to presents, to Christmas Break.
Sadly, our good cheer regarding that
blessed holiday is dampened by the bit-
ter taste left in our mouths by a two-week
break. What is this? Washington and
Lee High School?

Washington and Lee is a school of
the highest caliber. Students here work
desperately hard during the school year.
After Fall term, we are tired and brain-
drained. Christmas itself is no time for
relaxation. There is traveling involved,
family connnitments, and residual stress
from exams.

In addition, it costs money to get
plane tickets home, or to drive home.
Because there is no food available on-
campus during breaks, we are forced to
head home, or make other arrangements
for every break. Over Christmas break,
students aren’t even allowed to stay in
on—carnpus housing, which forces us to
spend that money to go home.

Once we are back in the safe haven
we call home, it’s nice to spend some
time with family and friends from past
lives. We think there is a reason that
colleges generally have month—long win-
ter breaks. College is stressful for busy
students. College is also stressful for
Professors. ‘What Professor couldn’t
use an extra week or two in January to
make ﬁnal preparations for their winter
classes?

An extra week of break would reju-
venate our minds and bodies. To replace
that week of instruction time, we could
start earlier in September rather than
waiting until it’s practically Fall to start
classes.

If made, these changes would bring
in a better start to Winter term. People
will be more relaxed and ready to face
Lexington in its cold, dark, dreary, and
wintery state:

 

  

te of the Week

“I remember the memos from 20th Century
Fox- ‘Can you putapairoflederhosen on the
WOOkiee?’All they couldthinkof was, ‘This
characterhas no pants On!” '

-Mark Hamill, aka Luke Skywalker

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Sports Editor

Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Copy Editors

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Director
Distribution Dir

E_rin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Laudemian

Sarah Murray

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Corbin Blackford
Marshall Rule

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis

David Seifert
Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

 

CAIEYANDARSON
OPINIONS EDIIOR
EMAn;ANDrrsONO@wrDrDU

PAGE 3

Black Greeks badly needed at University

In the past few weeks there have been articles printed in both major univer-
sity newspapers about historically Black Greek letter organizations coming to
campus. However, what these articles have failed to include is actual informa-
tion about the formation of the organizations and how Washington and Lee
University can, and is, going to beneﬁt by their presence.

To understand why historically Black Greek letter organizations are still‘

needed today, one has to look at their origins. The ﬁrst Greek letter organization
was Phi Beta Kappa which was founded on December 5, 1776 by 5 students at
the College ofW1lliarn and Mary in Wrlliarnsburg, Virginia. According to the Phi
Beta Kappa website, the ﬁrst women were admitted in 1875, the ﬁrst Black
member was initiated in 1377, and the ﬁrst Black woman became a member in
1905. By 1883 there were 25 chapters and around 14,000
members nationwide. With" the proliferation? of this, pre-
dominately white male, Greek organization, the necessity of

a similar organization for Blacks became more evident. This
ultimately led to the creation of the ﬁrst historically Black
Greek letter organization, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incor- '
porated. Alpha Phi Alpha was founded on December 4, 1906 at Cornell Univer-
sity in Ithaca, New York. According to the Alpha Phi Alpha website the organi-
zation was initially a study/support group for minority students, who were
facing racial prejudice both educationally and socially at Cornell. And although
the organization continues to stress academic excellence, they also stress the
need to “correct the educational, economic, political, and social injustices faced
by Blacks.” In total there are nine historically Black Greek letter organizations,
which are known as the Divine Nine: Alpha Phi Alpha, KappaAlpha Psi, Omega
Psi Phi, Phi Beta Sigma, Iota Phi Theta are the fraternities and Alpha Kappa
Alpha, Delta Sigma Theta, Zeta Phi Beta and Sigma Gamma Rho are the sorori-
ties.

Each of these nine organizations was formed during a period when Blacks
were systematically being denied, basic human rights. The racial and social
isolation of Blacks on predominantly white campuses created the necessity for
Blacks to unite themselves with others who shared similar ideas and goals. For
this reason Washington and Lee University will beneﬁt from the presence of
historically Black Greek letter organizations. It will provide those who choose
to join a sense of brotherhood/sisterhood, foster their interest in aiding the
Black community as well as being a part of a long legacy of members: WE.B.

INTRODUCING
MARCAS BANKS ‘O7

PHOTO COURTESY OF CORNELLEDU

JEWELS. The seven founding jewels of Alpha Phi Alpha represent the virtues Black Greeks would bring to W&L. Wfho can doubt that diversity is badly needed?

Dubois (Alpha Phi Alpha), Rick James (Phi Beta Sigma), Eleanor Roosevelt (Al-
pha Kappa Alpha), Michael Jordan (Omega Psi Phi), Martin Luther King Jr (Al-
pha Phi Alpha) and Aretha Franklin (Delta Sigma Theta) just to name a few. The
presence of historically Black Greek organizations will give prospective stu-
dents, who may see joining them as important, a greater incentive to apply/enroll
to this ﬁne university, thus increasing the diversity of the campus. But the
beneﬁt will not only be felt among the Black students but students of all races
and ethnicities. Although they are historically Black they are NOT exclusively
Black .

Many of those who oppose historically Black Greek organizations often say
that bringing the organizations on campus is another example of the Black stu-
dents self-segregating ourselves and trying to be divisive. This
could not be further from the truth. Many Black families have
traditions in joining certain historically Black Greek organizations;
without their presence on campus many Black students would be
forced to miss out on a family tradition that in some cases can
span many generations. Not only that but there are both Black
and non—Black students who feel uncomfortable with the historically White Greek
organizations on campus and would feel even more uncomfortable “rushing”
one of these organizations. Those who oppose them also do not take into
consideration that in general, Greek letter organizations are one of the largest
institutions that advocate and emphasize the perfonnance of community service
in college aged people. This can only help to enrich the college experience of
those who wish join a historically Black Greek letter organization. The organiza-
tions would not be divisive because the students who would be interested in
joining them would most likely have no interest in joining the historically White
ones. It would merely provide students who are currently independent with

more options.

Being Black inAmerican society has its implicit diﬂiculties but being Black
at Washington and Lee University can at time be even harder, especially when
out of slightly over 1730 undergraduates only 78 of them are African American/
Black. This environment can often cause Black students, including myself, to
feel isolated both institutionally and socially. Although the presence of histori-
cally Black Greek organizations will not stop students from feeling this way, it will
provide both Black and non—Black students an outlet_in which they can develop
and foster relationships with their fellow students and lifetime build bonds

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee~Univer-
sity, bexington, Virginia The Ring-nan Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week's edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-mm Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Military needs to avoid interfering with Iraq elections

Colin Powell announced that the U.S. mili-
tary will be moving into Iraq “no-go” danger
zones controlled by insurgents,
attempting to secure the entire
country for the elections planned
for the end of January. To me,
tbere is a paradoxical irony about
this- the insurgents are, for the large part, Iraqi
citizens, just the people you’d want to vote.
Are we going to clear out rebel camps and then
hand out ballots to the defeated insurgents?
Seems odd to me.

I think that the source of a lot of the inse-
curity in Iraq is the mere presence of U.S.
forces. If our military were to leave tomorrow,

'a lot of the insurgents would quit. They fight
because they perceive us as a foreign invader,
rather than the liberators we prefer to be por-
trayed as. But clearly, removal of our troops

MODE1rATE’s MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

from Iraq isn’t going to happen anytime soon.
So, what’s the solution?

Simply put, the in-
terim government must be
allowed to run this election
on its own terms. Iraqis
must man the ballot boxes,
count the votes, _and even secure their own
polling sites, free of the combined Armed
Forces and mercenary troops that the U.S. cur-
rently employs in Iraq. Trying to “keep an eye”
on the Iraq elections would simply give the
appearence of illegitimacy, an appearence
which is dangerous not only for our troops,
but for our credibility as a capable liberty-cre-
ating, nation—building country. '

Donald Rumsfeld says— “Let’s say you
tried to have an election and you could have
it in three—quarters or four-fifths of the coun-

try, but some places you couldn’t because the
violence was too great. Well, that’s — so be
it. Nothing’s perfect in life. So you have an
election that’s not quite perfect.” This seems
to make sense to me, and seems a better alter-
native to the “fair voting by force” strategy
proposed by Powell. You certainly can’t force
elections, and you certainly can’t persuade
armed rebels to cooperate with what they view
as a (temporarily, at least) illegitimate govern-
ment. A

We already have a very tenuous grasp on
the legality of our most recent attack on this
Middle—Eastem country. We came to free the
people from a tyrannical government and to win
over support for the democratic, capitalist way of
life. While we have certainly accomplished the
first, our success with the second remains to be
seen, and we shouldn’t endanger it any further.

Yes
44%

Phi Quick Poll

“Should the EC be unanimous in a finding of guilt in HV closed hearings?”

48 students polled, 23 male, 25 female. Poll has 95% conﬁdence in a +/- 5% margin of error

No
56%

 

    

PAGE 4 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

 ..

POMPAND CIRCUMS'TANf3E- The subjects that are honored by theEmmys,

things that count in life

photo courtesy of cuecards.com
Grarnm s, and Oscars aren’t the onl
Y Y

Being a big fan of tv and movies, I dutifully
sat and watched the Emmy awards last Sunday
night. Elaine Stritch’s warning that she would not
leave the stage until someone carried her off and
Sarah Jessica Parker’s thanking of the “passerbys
who always wanted the best for her” made me real-
ize that such an award truly is a result of the culmi-
nation of a lifetime of hard work. During high

some sort of prize, most of which I only appreci-
ated because they allowed meito add one more
thing to my resume. I’m sure many of the students
here can relate to my lack of en-

thusiasm at being praised and I

began to wonder... Why are
some awards more personally
valued than others?

In April of 2003, one of my favorite aunts came
to my house for Easter. Both being horse-lovers,
we decided to go on an early morning ride through
the national forest nearby. Riding side by side
down the road to the trails, I asked my aunt what
she had planned for the upcoming summer. After
discovering that the cancer she had six years prior
had returned, she had decided to quit working as
the Director of the American Bar Association’s
Commission of Domestic Violence in Washington,
DC. The job as Director had been the culmination
of a career which began by going to law school
after her divorce and while raising her two young
daughters, an incredible accomplishment. She told
me how she wanted to relax, take painting and pho-
tography classes, and begin riding again after a
long hiatus. As her disease progressed, she
plarmed to move back to a more rural setting and it
seemed to me like she longed to return to her roots.
Maybe she felt that she didnit need the stress of
such a high—profile job when she was so very ca-
pable of helping people at an individual level in-
stead of helping so many people but being dis-
tanced from them. I started to wonder if her origi-
nal dream had been swept away by sacriﬁcing her-
self for so many other people.

While my aunt’s hard work was rewarded by
being offered dream jobs that allowed her to touch
people’s lives by creating a lasting standard for
the practice of law in cases of domestic violence,
the winning actor is rewarded by a statue. Both

school and even before, I was often awarded with-

IN THE IRONS
CARISSA SHIPLEY c07 after their first taste of fame, they

. Entertainmet industry not deserving of awards hoopla

types of awards bring about overwhelming joy, ”

but the two are so different that they are almost
impossible to compare. So what gives both so much
meaning to each recipient and would an actor be
as thrilled at getting an ABA job as my aunt was?
After watching several E! True Hollywood Story
episodes, I noticed an emerging theme. Almost
without exception, every star had taken risks and
given up another, more secure job in order to be-
come an actor. The actors sacriﬁced, worked hard,
were rejected, and failed in the acting industry
numerous times before finally
landing the dream role which made
them famous. Sometimes, even

were forced to overcome ob-

stacles and ﬁght their way back
to the top. Even those actors who are very suc-
cessful may not receive an Oscar or Emmy.

In my eyes, my aunt’s job was far less super-
ﬁcial than that of an actor’s, but it seems clear that
both my aunt and the actor were fulfilled by what
they achieved. My aunt made huge sacriﬁces to
get her job. Not only did she put herself through
law school, after graduation, she moved to vari-
ous states, often where she did not really know

« anyone, to take a job which would allow her to

help more people. She didn’t have time to ride or
take art classes, like she wanted because she put
her all into a demanding job. Even after all the sac-
riﬁce and hard work, she lived her dream. While
she may have had regrets that she couldn’t do
some of the things she really wanted, ultimately I

think there is a lot to be said for living your own

dream and it is only by doing this that you receive
that meaningful award. Thus the less—than—excit—
ing awards only recognize an accomplishment born
from necessity, instead of desire. And so it seems
like those who pursue their own personal dream,
no matter the sacriﬁce, seem niost fulﬁlled by an
award that recognizes their personal drive. For
actors, it is materialized in gold, but for others, just
knowing that they have achieved great things is
enough and from their achievements, we should
be inspired to follow our own hearts.

This article is lovingly dedicated in memoriam
to my wonderful aunt, Bette Garlow. August 8, 1954
— Sept 30, 2003.

Jps and Downs

Opinions.Editor CaieyAnderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell, and what stayed about the same this week at W&L,and the wand.
Unanimous HV Verdicts‘ L N o matter what your opinion, and opinions do vary pretty violently, you’ve Hurricanes— L Dear Atlantic Ocean air systems- Please stop.

got to think that this idea isn’t going to appeal to the EC.

\ EC Budget Allocations- More $$$ in the coffers means happy, happy student orgs. Allocate wisely,
Fake 1]) = HV— 1, I don’t see why it’s NOT an HV, but I know when popular opinion’s against me. brave members of the Committee. .

Beta «I»-9 Gone the way of SPE. Message to nationals— crushing out chapters is no way to make yourself Trident Vs. EC skirmish— T The winner is us, the viewing public. ,

look good. Still, dodgeball tournament = awesome.

it happen?
Roanoke—  But only because there’s no Lexington mall.

GDI- T 2 less frats + S.A.O. = lots of indie fun next year.

Election— L Apparently the best way to get out the vote is acidic, partisan hatred.

Lex Fast Food—+"-9 Digestion-disrupting Taco Bell to Salty Fry Burger King.

BoSox— 1' I’m from San Diego, and even I’m excited.

Bookstore- 4”’ Rockin’, but do we really need two shelf units full of chick lit?

Auditorium next to Commons 1, Does that thing ever get used for anything but studying anymore?
Homecoining- <-0 Beating the Yellow Jackets would be pretty sweet, but can the 01’ blue and white make It seems like the only time I ever went to anything there was early last year.

Cadavers— More 1 ues honorin them around cam us. Here’s to the secret or anization that uts
P 39 3 P 2 P

their money where their mouth is.

Teach for America- T Awesome, challenging program. Anyone who goes through it should be hireable

by any employer.

Young Dems- 1' Even College Republicans would have to admit that Blue Dog Bash is looking like a

potential major success.
Professor Velasquez— d-—>By his own admission.

VRB- T Finally, we can get our debate on.

Got something to say?

Write Opinions for the Ring—tum Phi

If you like to hold forth on the weighty issues of the day, the Ring—tum Phi is the
paper for you. E—mail the Opinions Editor at Andersonc@wlu.edu

It°s time to exercise something
other than your mind.

   

I , Ilrnllyﬁpheoowode cu-cduxﬁlsuiial suldem:
L‘.-'Lutl*:Iil i‘.w1'~‘.*rr1l:i~.'7-ili.i'p  biidgumd abiqr sudmt schadlle. OJw5is3=0-
 " E mimuteﬁmesstnnmonsenst weight|¢:5,ar.dal
. ‘. ‘ diesuppon: you

E
.  _ ;_ be ah‘ ..
[931 ’_Ne1-rio:-steI.' , ;m;i"“"‘* 

I r n—.s :i.ur:r-». ~I:llI’.I"'f‘

 

'mm.o.1M5im: muiomlcom

(540) 464-5545
?8D N La: Hwy
Imthigban "$324450
00¢ £4999 b<.Ib7wIr Iawnﬂuidc
m._a...s.,u|,..u-b.¢|,Lva.iw.i-s.vJ‘i£q.-,.o.q..4.,|..4.. Nun .u ..,.a.-,....a...a

STRINGED INSTRUMENT

Prepare yoorsetf for

well... an  

  

Expert Repair & Set-Up

Guitars &Basses

   

Acoustic &Electric

ReferencesAvailable
 Local Service/Will Pick Up & Deliver!
LEO LORENZONI

Luthier

540-258-1401

Fiwd out new you can IJSQ 3191;? down and
v=a£L.me¢r eieparteruze tr: assist  in
 enuntoiaaaiumd  Danftmm
ihisoppominﬂy to tnlktzea ﬁemeﬂmpssrecmitar
mélemihowgrtxiemmahaadiﬁfemrma meme‘
em.   em.

  
  
  
  
  

Wednesday, September 29

Puma buy:  Irifoermaitixm session
11:06 sI.m.«1:00'p.m. 'r':‘J0 - 9:013 
Eat! U.  Gwschool
tinting Room Room 221

Pusan Berna

 mam» 
cantant Jason Rana
{GOO} 424-3680 #1048

 

 

A   Gritter o

i

  

MARsHAu.RUiE
SPOKIS EDIPOR

EwmR mU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

’li‘l.ii-.5 RiZ\K}~’il‘E.7M. Pi-ii

PORT

pposes free agency

He believes free agency, lack of team spirit, quests for money ruining baseball

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRITER

I can fully understand when
people say that baseball is bor-
ing, I really can. It doesn’t anger
me when people tell me that. You
have to have played baseball to
appreciate a nine inning game, and
honestly I can’t make it through
a whole game unless it’s the play-
offs or my Florida Marlins. But
despite the fact that more people
enjoy football or basketball, base-
ball, always has the claim of be-
ing “America’s Pastime.” It’s the
sport with all the history. Because
of this, I absolutely hate when I
feel like that nostalgic feeling is
being attacked .... ..now is cer-
tainly one of those times, and the
attack is coming from many
sides.

The free agency problem
has ﬁnally reached a point that I
just cannot stand. I keep track of
minor league prospects for al-
most every team and consider
myself a guru of sorts concem—
ing baseball, yet even I can’t keep
up with all the off—season moves.
I’m fine with free agency but only
as long as it operates in a system
based on team loyalty. Free
agency is a way for a player to
leave a team if the club and the

’ player don’t get along or if the
player feels he is grossly under-
paid. These days staying with
one team for a career is utterly
unheard of. Going along with this
is my least favorite word in the
business of baseball: “arbitra-
tion.” What kind of system are
we in where a third party is deter-

mining when a player deserves
more money? That’s up to man-
agement of the club, if the player
doesn’t like it because he feels
he is being grossly underpaid
(there’s that phrase again) he can
use free agency to get more once
his contract ends. Furthermore,
this process is an argument of
value, which forces the team to
devalue their player to the best
of their ability ‘in front of the
playerll WTF?l Pitting team
against player creates no feeling
of team loyalty and completely

time, as he was making 8.5 mil/yr,
he said “I looked around, and I
was only the third highest paid
player on my own
team.” ......... ..So? Please people,
if you love baseball and aren’t a
White Sox fan (actually you
don’t even have to love baseball,
just hate d**kheads), don’t like
Frank Thomas. So that’s one
realm in which I feel my beloved
sport is being killed, but there is
another that is being directly at-
tacked this season that angers me
more.

Pitting team against player creates no feeling of team
loyalty and completely undermines the fun of seeing an
owner try and build his team

undermines the fun of seeing an
owner try and build his team as
Mark Cuban continues to do with
the Dallas Mavericks. While I’m
in the same general area let me
talk about holdouts as well. I’m a
firm believer that when you sign
your contract you had better be
willing to live with that
contract.....you signed the pa-
pers! If you have a completely
unexpected breakout year and
become a star then the team’s
sense of loyalty should encour-
age them to give you the money
you deserve, if not....tough.
Frank Thomas especially is the
greatest offender of this principle.
Two times now (at least) he has
signed a ridiculously lucrative
contract only to complain about
it within a couple years and de-
mand that it be restructured. One

Hank Aaron’s home run
record and George Sisler’s single-
season hit’s record are both be-
ing neared and I’m not happy
about it at all. Baseball’s records
are very. meaningful, and when
they are broken it should be done
in a way that fits with the honor-
able tradition of baseball. As
Randy Johnson passes
baseball’s greatest strikeout
pitchers I feel no ill will towards
him, because he’s been the same
pitcher his whole career and has
gone out and given his best with-
out any cheating or questionable
practices. This sentence, obvi-
ously, leads me to the Home Run
record Bonds is approaching. I
already wrote an article about this
very thing last year, but for the
beneﬁt of the freshmen, Bonds
definitely used steroids and

therefore his records lose mean-
ing. Even if you say he didn’t use
them because it can’t proven, his
records will always be given a
shady squint’ since his body’s
transformation just doesn’t seem
natural.....because it isn’t.
Anyways, you may be wonder-
ing what I could possibly have
against Ichiro approaching
Sisler’s 257 hits‘ in one season.
Well, besides the fact that Ichiro
was very pompous when he
came over before proving him-
self, I have another reason. I
don’t like players going from the
Japanese Leagues and coming
over to the Major Leagues and
having success.

Don’t get me wrong, I have
nothing against Japanese play-
ers making it in the majors, I just
don’t like them playing in those
leagues first. Why? Because it
takes away from the mystique.
Ichiro’s numbers in Japan can be
compared rather closely with his
numbers in the majors and that
encourages other JL players to
think they can do the same.
Tsuyoshi Shinjo had no right at
all to think he could make the
jump to the Bigs. Had Ichiro been
signed when young and worked
his way up in America or only
played for a national team like the
Cuban signees then I wouldn’t
have any problem. Some call this
feeling elitist, since I wish to pre-
serve the feeling of awe the rest
of the world has for MLB (as well
as the NBA, NFL, NHL. . ..wait,
who cares about the NHL? Strike
on! i). I prefer to call my feelings
“Patriotic.”

PAGE 5;

The W&L riding team
looks like they’re going to have
a great season.

According to junior Caitlin
Lane, the team has “great
people on each level” coupled
with a group of “strong fresh-
men” who will help boost the
season’s success.

Last year, the team won 3'“
in the region, which was an
upward trend that team mem-
bers feel will continue to rise.
In the 03-04 season, the team
also sent two riders to nation-

als; Lane won a 4”‘ place show-

Pnoro COURTESY KATIE GOODRICH

Bright outlook  
for equestrians

I Team’s great repute

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER -

tion is still to improve 1

ing in the open ﬂat, and then
senior Sarah Michaels earned
3"‘ in the novice fences. Both
girls were on the zone All—Star
team. ‘

The riding team also won
first and second at last year’s
Collegiate Cup.

Although this year’s sea-
son doesn’t officially begin
until Oct. 3 at the Radford In-
vitational, team members have
been busy practicing and per-
fecting their riding skills to
ensure a season of success.

With an ever-rising
record, W&L’s riding team is
sure to have a season to re-
member.

TH I  Pei 

  

   
    
    
 

King, W&L zraiioa two

  

 

record 206 yards  I

 
 

 

finished second of 28

 

Cruise!

Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTrave|.com
1-800-678-6386

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS
$1000—$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you

schedule your non—sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact Campus
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

V”_xg57&L 399333 , i A" ' A V iO})AC"~foie Kampden- afternoon in
(RELEASE: " sets to none before com- touchdowns .to;heIp   Sydney College on Satan flaizisonburg, Va. teams, while the women
r I ’ T» -    15~30;29-/ the Cenl1e,_C3o1flege___ _ .   afteriiojon in . I iﬁriishedﬁfthofzzteams.
. v  V *  . pi V  ’ i31,3o.17,3o.2g,1g-15_ bail team toiaj28~23.w_i2i 'Han3;§dei1~Sydxiey, Va. Cross Country Com- ’
Women’sSoccer})efeat$.,__ V ' . overwashirigtoa aniilgeej ‘ _  . s ' ppetes in NYU Invita~ Men’s’I2amisHostsFa}l
Chane“: 2~1«(912§):‘  3 " j , FootballI)rops28-23De~ on Saturday larfternoén . }?,iield,~§iocIcey..rDefeats tional(9/18) . ‘ Classic (9112)
Freshmauvdefende’rHaley f’ éisionta Centre College Darivil1e,Ky._°  :v ' I  5-3, The Washington and Washington and Lee
Bunting (Bel1aire,'i'exa_s/ A 1. (9/25)’ , ~  E .  « A for Fifstlwin (9124) Lee men’s and women’s junior lilavid Shay
,  513- 59593) $90193 3 $03.1 -,  ‘ 'f ‘ Senior quarterback Brian Men’s Soccer -Tics Seniojr;midfi§eider Kiri; cross ‘country teams »; (Martinez, Ga./Augusta
_  81'7013§5lt033ﬁ ﬁ.’.9“'N°> 2,3 ii ' WBehren'dt completed 28-  y,$2(W‘ '_' .. M ,f‘f  (newyiilii. NY! were in action on Satin» Prep) won the champi-
 .. .W39hi333‘°ﬂ 335 L?"v“¥f  of-’-mpassesfora sehoo1- 25) I 7   St. .Catberii:‘es) scored day as they competedin oxiship match of the first
womeifs soccerteamtoa ,  A mwrd 377 yards age: The Washington and Lee  twovgoais to 13339 propel "A theNew York University singles flightastheGerx~
 .32-3 victory over,Chov{an_, * . three touehdownszand meats soccertearn;>1ayeil",‘ ,tl3eaWashi_ngton and  ‘ Invitational at Van ‘erals hosted the W&L ~
VCo}1ege7on Sunday after?   I I senior wide receiver its third»overtimega:n:eof"~5 sﬁeidiiockeyteatntoas‘-3‘ Cortlandt Park in the Fall Classic on Saturday
. B003 in M‘1Yf1“°§5b°m« . David Crowley caught the seasoil and cause win‘owm"ODAC-foeEast~l Bronx. The W&L men and Sunday. '
. , V‘ NE; W I » eight passes fora school. away With‘a:.2:-2 tic  ~    V
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party $450 5f‘°UP FU"d"°'$¢" 5¢h¢dU'm9 30005 For Rent

ParentslAlumni Weekends — Beautifully restored
and modernized cabin on 45 acres in mountains
15 min. west of Lexington. Completely
furnished with period antiques and local art. 2
BB?BA —, sleeps 6. Separate guest cottage -
sleeps 2. Perfect for 2 to 3 couples. Private
vacation residence occasionally available for
rent either weekly or nightly wl 3 nt. min.

Call (804) 355-0002.

 

<<£a2:ma.za’@2/

.._.».»...........,

“Adi 

FlNE SJNISEERXE

ll,
fu-

 

0rchardsdeYam Shop

52”“, y°"i£O‘°;°W 6, Knitting Specialty Shop
’ 273 Rapmne Road .
Raphlne, VA 24472
Fetina P 540-348-5220-1-877-NI'l'-YARN
Fl an
Ha ky ky Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
Cosabella . . . -
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
- Le Mystele and novelty yams. kits, needles and
Ananng d accessories. Customer service from sum to
may QFW finish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.
21 W Nelson st °""°' "M ”’ 8‘ d“
Hal be Lain to and Slaunlan
 0,, [_g1f/‘:34 wM¢:i:n205,  miles west on
Mon “' Fr! 1  Rome   Road. Locritcd on“ W0"ki”S
Sat 10,6 fann that oﬂers "U-PICA opportunities for fmh

“séngper ubi sub ubi”

ﬁuit-when in season.

'Ilies . Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed imlil sun
umbxsinmslionsnm

 

Team kicks into h



 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

 

CORBIN BLACKFORD / RING-TUMPHI

igh gear

Wednesday’s game leaves soccer girls victorious

BY SARAH BLOOM
SENIOR SPORTS REPORTER

A defeated Hollins College
left Lexington on Wednesday
after the W&_L Women’s soc-
cer team defeated their compe-
tition with a sweeping 10-0.

Following the trend from
the women’s game against
Greensboro, sophomore Anne
Wiltshire led the charge with

two goals. Wiltshire scored her
two goals within 10 minutes of
each other to get the Generals
off to a clear lead over Hollins.
The team led 7-0 at the halftime
break. Other goal earners in-
cluded Shana Oltmans, Cara
Burton, Sarah Helms, Conner
Esworthy, Martha Caulkins,
Kerry Giblin, Casie Pedroza,
and Mary Clair Turner.

Goalkeeper Emily Binns pro-

tected the net for the Generals,
preserving the teams un-
touched net and claiming her
first win of the year.

The Generals suffered a
disappointing loss to ODAC
rival Virginia Wesleyan on Sat-
urday with a ﬁnal score of 3-1.
Senior Captain Kelley Zagol
scored the only goal for W&L.

Harvey enthusiastic
about W&L football

BY KATHERINE KRALL
STAFF WRITER

At the home opener against
Sewanee this past Saturday, the
Washington and Lee football
team turned heads with their com-
manding win, but one player
stood out. With one dazzling
play, Kyle Harvey solidiﬁed the
win, broke a ﬁve year defensive
scoring drought, and established
himself as one of the premier de-
fensive backs in the conference.
After racking up ﬁve tackles and
two sacks, Harvey returned an
interception fifty yards for a
touchdown. For his performance,
Kyle Harvey, a freshman from
Columbia, South Carolina, was
named Athlete of the Week.

Harvey began to play Pop
Warner football when he was just
nine years old. The son of a foot-
ball player, Kyle inherited
athleticism and natural talent
from his father. At Richland
Northeast high school, he ex-
celled in the sport, and his hard
work paid off when he was named
to the All-Regional team his se-

ninryear Itwasaclearchojcem playing thc game and does so

Tuesday 
°Field,Hockeyj  -I I ‘
at .Ly‘nchburg--4:_3()p

 

Wednesday

' M Soccer at Emory
and Henry--4

” I ' W Soccer vs. HOllins——4:30

        
     
   

play football in college. “Foot-

ball is part of my life. I don’t know

what I would do without it. I just
really love the game. People have
always told me that I am not big
enough, not strong enough, not
fast enough. I want to prove

them wrong” said Harvey.

The transition from high
school to college was an adjust-
ment, but one that Harvey made
quickly. “W&L is a lot tougher
mentally. You have to learn reads,
coverages, formations. Also,
you are playing against twenty-
two year old grown men, whereas
in high school you are playing
against teenage boys,” said
Harvey.

His ability to play well and
play smart is obvious at the
games, but even more so on the
practice field. Big plays are not
products of chance, and Harvey
is a prime example of this. His
work ethic is incredible, as he
balances a full academic course
load- with difficult practices and
a full schedule of games. “Kyle
is a hard working, very dedicated
football player. He truly enjoys

 Week in 

with enthusiasm, intensity and
focus,” said head coach Frank
Miriello.

Kyle Harvey proved his ability
at pre—season camp, but his real
chance to play came when two
defensive starters were injured
early in the season. Thrust into

- a playmaking position, Harvey

was forced to step up. He was
surrounded by a supportive team.
“The upperclassmen are a great
group of guys, and they are not
opposed to freshmen playing.
They put the success of the team
first, we all do,” said Harvey. He
named Stuart Swan as a player
who has been a strong role model
to him.

Although it would be easy
to let the success go to his head,
Harvey remains humble and com-
mitted to the success of the team,
rather than focusing on his own
accolades. He explains, “I just
want to be able to contribute to
the team as much as possible.
For our team to be successful is
the biggest goal. I want this team
to change what everyone thinks
about W&L football.”

Fdday

° Volleyball at

Emory Invitational--4230

° Field Hockey at

Eastern Mennonite-—5:30 ,

  

Sunday

' W Soccer at Chowan--l

 

 

 

W&l. Bookstore l'l'tlStlllIS...

I Wlltlklv teature til the Bookstore Illlll M0 I/II]-ﬂllll PIII

This lllek:

 

AMERIC

{’1‘ittr'Z B{}~0I>‘{} .

A iiiziwrfes {bride ts l)r>r'm'ar..>r‘:my Ixrrtrzitrrt

    

eheelnr. irreverent. and nlaviulhl ingenu-
ous, this ahhreviated history or demoe-
raev is evervthintl one would exneet irom
the writers oi eomedv eentraI's ialte news
Ilrodram. The hooli is laid out like a text-
Iroolt. with “niseussion Questions," "class
room lletivities," and nlenhi oi amusintl
tlrailhies. it must tor lon stewan tans.

‘a list oi the whitest Il.S. Presidents
'ste|l|ren eolherrs guide to dressing like a W
~ lonmalist
'll guide Ill tlflllklllll names It! lllﬂ while Vltlltllllllll

lloonlar nrlee: $24.95 This week: $19.95

BlucRidge
P,'r~r*rs1c:.arr. Teerzarr

C’.Z‘are with gear: ta mind

&§3-f;733$
72$ eiairtir Lee Hwy
Lexirrgten, VA

ffﬁeiiega Square shagging wearer}

Jeiirz .3 J 3 C?

Specializing in;
Ortirepeziies
Sparta Medic-inc

Sarina? Meeiiieatioa
iiest-£3? reirabEii*tai::ier1

zreaaaeaz. C3?’ 3301:? ieszrranee.

ta LIFE

Pierzse eaié er step by re speak with arm afcizar saaﬁ"
metaaem: wit}: £2.32}? gyzeesriomz you ferry have eeaeemfag yaw

FNJJLYFDWARDS
AR’IS&L1PEEDIIOR

EMAr;Er)wArDsrM@wLUrDtJ

MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 27, 2004 "

Freshmen fight the fifteen fiend

BY KATHERINE GREEN
STAFF WRITER

It’s the threat that lurks behind every ﬁench fry, around every candy
bar, inside every package of Easy Mac. It’s the Freshman 15, and it’s cur-
rently instilling fear in the hearts of young women on campus.

What is this ﬁend which causes pants to grow tighter and swimsuits to
suddenly become unfashionable? It’s the phenomenon which purportedly
causes once-lean college freshrnan women to experience sudden weight
gain. According to Jan Kaufman, di— - '
rector of health promotions here at
W&L, it’s nothing to panic over and
can be easily avoidable.

“The average gain is usually only
about ﬁve pounds,” she said, but
added, “It doesn’t really have to hap-
pen.”

a bad thing, having them three times a day is probably not a good choice,”
she said.

Exercise is also important, she said. “Women really need to include
exercise. . . perhaps four or ﬁvetirnes a week.” She added that the form of

workout is not important. “It could just be a brisk 30 minute walk,” she said.

“Aloohol oonsurnption also adds a lot of empty calories,” she said. “I
really do think that’s one thing to think about” The average beer, she
explained, contains about 150 calories, while lightbeerhas l 10. “But as they’
drink more, the calorie intake just goes up from there.”

Also, mixed drinks, which are more
popular among women in particular, are
the highest in calories. “You have to
include all the calories in the fruit juices
and syrups [such as sour mix or daiquiri
syrup] as well as those in the shot it-
self.” Even a simple mix, such as rum
and coke, contains approximately 200

So why does this happen to 18-year- calories.
old women, in particular? What a lot of these women don’t real-

Kaufrnan said thereare generally four ize, she said,is thatthey aredrinking the
factors affecting ﬁeshman women spe— equivalent of ameal or moreincalories
ciﬁcally: hormonal changes, unbal— each night when they party.

anced nutrition, decrease in activity,
and a sudden spike in alcohol con-
surnption.

Health Center nurse Jan Asbury
agrees. “It is more of an emotional
and physical adjustment than any-
thing else,” she said. “A lot of female
students especially put on a lot of
weight because their whole routine
changes.”

One ﬁeshman woman, who wished
to remain anonymous, said her rou-
tine has changed drastically in the past

“I want to stress that no one should
substitute drinking for eating,” she said.
“It becomes a dangerous situation be-
cause they get intoxicated quicker.”

There is hope for concerned freshman
women, however. Anyone, regardless
of weight, can seek help or advice at the
Student Health Center on the bottom
ﬂoor of Hall, at the Health Pro-
motions oﬂioe in Commons 232, or from
seminars Panhellenic is planning on
holding sometime this winter.

Kaufman said, “It’s important [to seek

month.

“I actually eat three meals a day now,
instead of two,” she said, but added
that she also feels she’s eating unhealthy foods. “I always try to get greens,”
she said, “Butl never used to drink coffee and now I have to to stay awake
in lectures.”

She also expressed concern over Marketplace choices. “’Ihere’s certain
things I have no control over,” she said, “like how much mayo goes on my
sandwich or how much butter is in a recipe. . .When you don’t cook your-
self, you don’t really know how much fat is in [your food].”

“And that fro-yo machine,” she added, “I just can’t stay away from it!”

Is this a helpless situation? Kaufman says it’s not. “The key thing is there

‘ has to be balance,” she said. “Women have to be careful about the choices

they’re making.”

She explained that typically, students don’t get enough fruits and veggies,
and said women really need to introduce more whole grains and ﬁber into
their meal equations. “Although french fries once in awhile isn’t necessarily

help] early, because problems you de
velop in college stay with you in life.”
So if you reach the top of a ﬂight of
ﬁve steps feeling winded, think twice before reaching for the Fudgesicles in
your Micro-Fridge. Remember moderation and keep the Freshman 15 from
taking over your life.
Students interviewed chose to remain anonymous due to the sensi-
tive nature of the topic.

ILLUSTRATION BY EMILY HULEN

 

LCl><I><I)CI><I>(l><l><I>(I>Cl>(I><l><I)

2° V1H>U>letI

L
I
F
E-J

VI/e/co//re §fM.e/7fs/

We invite you to take
a walk down
Washington Street and !
meet some

local artists at Artists in Cahoots,

a cooperative gallery

on the corner of

Washington and Main.

Pa/)7/i7'lﬂg?s - Wood Cd/V/‘ﬁgs - P/iozfogm///3 - Poﬁzferxy
/-/4/idem/$94 fey;/e//y - 6/ass
24¢/e/died 150 W&£ am’ [ex/Jtrgfoﬂ

 
  
 

IStS in
Cahoots
Lexington, Virginia
540-4644 147
www.an‘istslncahoots.com

Open: l0~5;3O Monday—Saturday
1 1-3 most Sundays

2'M'ki'&‘h'h"L'&"§'S‘Bi'Iz‘§u"&\'h"h‘§*§n?'|:‘§"iu'§e“§‘ﬁ/"Ir9'Iu?Ir’ln§r§r"|n?'I5"In§'i:-$‘U'ln§"|v‘h%'hr'ln§r'h'%'§i'iré"In*Iu\uW:'h'§r"|rWx'l:&:

Blue Ridge
ﬂlllﬂ BBIIIBI

is nrrw 4:1 

Wﬂﬁehwtitiﬁ .  . E

8.3

   

  

seteials

a3-ve:rcfant~ tear 3 ihnitd ti-me _

>1-saaazmm-g

  
 

 

Else tibiae  mm at eamm nutltereeaom have when totem to 
  I  I I.  -  toned or swims sue! manetmm
more ilmﬁm Sehlaeemst 

”l.ﬁl!tiﬁ!e" Elmflilsﬂ Qt‘ ENE! 51 ﬂiﬂeﬁﬂ its Rtlaﬁﬂllit.
0 KBHIH  It vﬁﬂfﬂili Eliﬁﬁ. 4» flit! it ilﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁ fﬂﬁﬂmﬁiliiliﬂﬁ it-
al-¥l3llllliT£ﬂ T3333 if HEIRS. El‘! «Ir ﬁt?“ ﬁﬂtflﬂﬁﬁ O

eranrt enéng

“ " " éihiriei " '  tinarneairieaatemiif 
ﬁisstaiaiexamieelmritﬁer ;
new me: as M 

 sue Ridge Ante eemer

 ’1i£J“l*a i:iiitag:rre::iia lure true verasea iilista. ea :
= -is-we“.Mia.-5am'a.s.e.a*o.-s~ea.'e'a.-r.m1-that-has-it-is-itvrrvrr-his-sa.auar—1.1.'s'e-satrearsihis-e-53'-ax:

  

 

‘ti-

atcmimu me 2
Stanton at Sttwﬁﬁ E :

1

   

  

5--26"!-:-933?)‘. Q

    

3.3%" i I .
Perm. Cart nxmamroxr cm
Onderfrommrr . -menu

Orjeiar rarﬁ7roawfourAl.£ mvarnmrww

~FridaytﬁglttSeafoedBut&tvétlaGrabLege5PM~tOPM
~Seturclay l~fght8tewt&Sltt'ittip'5Pl§-twat
~Surrday Baked Chicken assumes ttA!r!«%
—~%ktasz8ar7DaysaWeek8im-11AM
~l:teiiy Hatcountiy Bar ttaﬂ-3093!
~t}aI?lySow, Salad. 8: Fm38w1tAlr§—t.eP!A

Home Cooker! Meals 8' Smzﬂrem Hospitality!

0rderBrea%st 24HoursaDxy,Scwmdaysaw&

Located at
LEE HI TRAVEL PLAZA
3'-31‘ I$4,EXWI”,35I6N0mﬂl»WHWY, ,VA
S48-463-3478
C~3'rutFar>¢t&agrea&r:o§oet=ioa of

 

anetqwfadaicwaartiufoysl

PAGE 8

THE

  
 

’l"Hli%i RiN<}~n‘sA:i PH}.

AST ORD

EMILYEDWARDS
A1uS&L1EEEDrIoR

HM m

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2004

Freshmen guys: be yourself, even if it means enjoying girly drinks

It is one of the hardest decisions we, as ‘students
at Washington and Lee, have to make. The decision
you make will forever determine how you are thought of.

The decision I am of course referring to is what you
are going to drink on Friday and Saturday nights.

When at a party or bar, and the bartender asks
“what’ll it be,” what will you say? And more importantly,
at our oh—so—vain school, how will that decision reflect
on you? .

If you say I’ll have a screwdriver, this
means, you are a freshman and are only or-
dering that because that’s the only drink
you know. .

You haven’t quite had the experience that the rest
of us have had. You may say, “Well my screwdriver is
different because it has cranberry juice in it too.” But
remember this, the more fruit juice in your drink the more
fruity you look.

Color should be a key factor in choosing your poi-
son. The closer your drink is to brown, the more mascu-
line you look. This is why any whiskey on the rocks is
always a good call. Just don’t make a face when you
force it down your throat.

No matter what Tim Smith says, don’t try his croc cool-

POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE

ers out of a Nalgene. Yes, they do taste amazing, but they
are like a German prostitute, fun to party with until your
friends see you. The bright green color makes people ques-
tion which team you’re on.

On the flip side, a White Russian is always a good
choice. For those of you unfamiliar with this choice
beverage, it was immortalized by “the Dude.” Referred
to by “the Dude” as a “Caucasian,”_ this drink proves’
that dairy products and alcohol can go
together. However this drink is rarely pro-
vided at parties so make sure to drink
these up at the rare cocktail parties that

, provide them.

If you truly want to have an out—of—body experience,
tequila shots are the only way to go. Tequila allows for
the second best pick up line of “Wanna take a body shot?”
(The best line of course being, “Hey, ever slept in a frat
bed before?). Just remember that eventually, you will have
that one experience with tequila that will prohibit you from
ever drinking it again. So enjoy the Mexican sauce while
you still have the stomach for it.

By the way, on the subject of shots, do not ever
take a shot of Kaluha. I know, I know, you are saying,
“Who in the world would ever do that.” But trust me,

sometimes you have one of those nights where you
aren’t quite thinking clearly, and right before you go up-
stairs with a girl loosely resembling your golden re-
triever, you down a shot or two of Kaluha.

Also make sure you know what you are drinking. If
some guy says, “Hey, let’s go have five shots of 151,”
you better understand what 151 will do to you.

And freshmen, listen up. Don’t drink stuff out of a
trash can unless you know what it is. A friend of mine
recently had a freshman tell him about the amazing grain
he had had at some party during Orientation Week. Ap-
parently they poured like five handles into the garbage
can to make the grain.

Grain is not made by pouring vodka or rum into a gar-
bage can. It is a type of alcohol that must be brought
across the border from West Virginia. Most drinks out of
a garbage can are either Sangria (wine, fruit juice, and
sprite) or a simple mix of handles and Kool—aid and juices.

But when it comes down to it, as long as you are
having fun it doesn’t matter whether you are drinking
grain, tequila, Natty Light, or water. If Cosmopolitans
make you happy, drink up. We work way too hard at this
school, and we have to be careful not to let work engulf
our social life too.

77ie oﬁfeers qfKat/ie.€on and’ t/ie ‘I4/as/iington

anfliee 'Unz’oersz't_‘y ,4/umnz'/’lssoez'atz'on are
péasef to announce t/ie 2004-2005’ ‘Was/iz'ngton
and'£ee Jforneeonzing Court.

Representing Cﬁi Omega is Ms. ]i[[ ‘V1/aity.
Representing Cﬁi (Psi is 91/15. Kaitfin fllipfanalp.
Representing tﬁe Kappa /lgnﬁa Order is Ms. Katﬁryn Tempfe.
Representing Kappa flip/ia ‘Iiieta is Ms. Efizalietﬁ Tafco.
Representing Kappa (Defta is Ms. 9!/larion Trierson.
Representing Kappa Kappa gamma is 91/15. Catﬁerine ‘Torrey Strouzi
Representing Kappa Sigma is Ms. £[iza6etﬁ /lmoni.
Representing Lamﬁcfa Cﬁi ﬂlﬂpfia is Ms. Cefia Lancfgren.
Representing t/ie Law Scﬁoof C[ass qf2005 is 9!/ls. /lngeﬂz Ernst.
Representing t/ie Law Scﬁoof Cﬁzss of 2006 is Ms. Sara jl[[enso,n.
Representing tﬁe Law Scﬁoof Chss of2007 is Ms. 9!/lerecfit/i ﬂiiernat/iy.
Representing t/ie ,9!/linority Stucﬂants /’lssociation is 91/15. Kaela Yfarmon.
Qpresenting Q’/ii (Delta ‘17ieta is Ms. Ke[[y Jo Larsen. '
Representing Rﬁi gamma (Deﬁta is 91/15. Leigﬁ Otey.
Representing Q’/ii Kappa Q’si is Ms. Mary flﬁfric/i.
Representing <Pﬁi Kappa Sigma is Ms. ﬂffyson Se[6y.
Representing (Pi Reta on is Ms. Susan Somers.
Representing @i Kappa /lfpﬁa is Ms. Kara Leﬁman.
Representing Q’i Kappa (P/ii is Ms. Efisalietﬁ Rutney.
Representing Sigma fllpﬁa Epsifon is Ms. grace (Barfow.
Representing Sﬂllﬁ is 91/15. Saran Jafri.
Representing Sigma Cﬁi is 91/15. 9!/lartﬁa flflgooci
Representing Sigma Wu is 91/15. Rian Lewis.

Homecoming provides many
wonderful chances for one to get ob-
scenely drunk, sleep in bushes, and
go to the hospital. It also provides
many chances for the quintessential
fashion faux pas. On that note, I shall
offer you freshmen ladies and gentle-
men a few tips for a safe, happy, and
fashionable Homecoming weekend.

Homecoming Fashion 101

Little Black Dress + Vineyard Wnes = The Winning Couple

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Freshmen guys, the football games
are all about pastel shorts. Shirt and
tie (jacket optional) are a must, but
wear long pants, and you will most cer-
tainly face frat—ostracization. Bonus
points for a Vineyard Vines tie.

Guys should wear either the stan-
dard navy blazer and tie with khakis or
a suit to the cocktail parties. While it is

night DJ bash.

W&L actually won their game.

Saturday’s football games.

heels.

your prized stilettos.

 

TS

Q If some girls are cows, then men are the patties
for them to step on.

Q The second ﬂoor Graham—Lees boys love Cathy
and #48!

Q Discussing your new diet Friday night with a
mixed in your hand? Classic.

Q Professor Meghan Griffith actually said this
in class, “You were made possible by certain bio-
logical actions.”

Q Way to go GDI rush! Five independent girls
made homecoming court.

Q Hey Dean Leonard, how about some good toilet
paper in the freshmen dorms?

  There was someone rappelling off the Cadaver
Bridge yesterday!

Q Joke: Kerry and Edwards are at McDonald’s
doing some campaigning. An employee, in her
excitement, spills some coffee on Kerry’s hand.
Edwards wants to sue — but Kerry wants to write it
up for his fourth purple heart.

Q Kudos to the Marketplace for deciding to serve
American food this year.

Q I love my online poker “dork” who won $17,000
so far!

Q There is no better friend than a Nalgene by
your side...with what other drink receptacle can
you measure your liquor in 8, 12, or 16 ounces.

Q You’ve heard of the cookie monster, well Eric
Nelson is the chocolate monster.

Q If you bum down your neighbor’s house, you’ll
have a whole lot of new enemies.

Q Oh my gosh! Has anyone else tried the new
Hershey’s kisses that are injected with caramel!
So good!

Q I think that we need a longer Christmas break.

Q When I call in sickl am usually in bed with.... a)
a fever over 101, b) a hangover, or c) a new friend.
Which is the correct answer?

Q Tight jeans are hot, khakis are not.’

Q Lambda Chi’s Tropical Party was awesome!

Q Jennifer Aniston married a journalism major,
you should too.

Q Rumor has it, Avril Lavigne has a child. The
best kept secret in the entertainment industry.

Q Any freshman guy who is already wearing the
pink polo shirt with the collar up, backwards
croakies, seersucker shorts, and rainbow sandals
should be shot.

Q A big thank you to the grounds crew for dis-
persing that pleasant smelling fertilizer this week!

Q Our Photo Editor almost got arrested. That
would have been tragic.

Q I kissed a guy simply because I couldn’t stand
listening to him any longer.

Q Kudos to Kristine Early for holding the Lambda
record with 51 goldﬁsh

Q Oprah is so cheap! Elli only gets to keep one
outfit from her shopping “spree” and now the people
who won the free cars have to pay almost $10,000
to pay in taxes.

Q I’m sorry we kissed last night. When can I!
have your children?

 

neither skanky nor dowdy. Leave the
excessive cleavage for a sketchy late

If you are going to a cocktail party
on both Friday and Saturday, do not
wear the same dress. Also, have fun on
the second night. Don’t get so wasted
on Friday that you cannot function on
Saturday. You’ll never know whether

The sundress is appropriate for
Think
bright, but nix the Lilly. You prob-
ably won’t want to wear spiked
The Law School field can be
treacherous when parading around in

We will not neces-
start off sary to
with the match your
cocktail date, it
dress. You looks great
can never in pictures.
go wrong Remember
with the clas- to never,
sic “little ever wear a
b l a c k s h o r t
dress.” Re- s l e e v e d
III e m b e r , dress shirt.
girls, that This - is
youarebe— fashion
ing watched suicide for
by upper- a guy.
classmen. Moving on
This dress __ ,_ to etiquette.
Should be PHOTOS COURTESY OFJCREWLOM AND NElMANMARCUS.COM Guys, when

walking on the street, remember to al-
ways walk on the outside. This is so
your date does not get her dress dirty
by a passing car. At dinner, pull out
the chair for your date and regardless
of how hungry you are, do not start
eating until everyone at your table has
his or her food.

Later that night at the cocktail party,
do not make your date get a drink while
you talk to the guys. The older brothers
will note the chivalry if you get the lady
a drink yourself.

Lastly, For the courtesy of every-
one involved, do not make out on the
dance ﬂoor. You have a room somewhere,

use it.

Q When is Kappa Sig’s redneck bash? I want to hit
another car.

Q Freshmen, don’t complain that the only liquor
you see at a party is Aristocrat. That’s so low class.

Q Sarah and Lara: Chi-O’s dancing queens.

Q You know something is ﬁshy when the EC Presi-
dent fails to obey the speaking tradition but Lane
Morgan can.

Q As a matter of fact, the EC President was on the
phone with her father— the guy who pays her tuition;
however, she would love to get to know the indi-
vidual to whom she inadvertently did not “SPEAK.”

Q I like picas. Not to be confused with PiKAs.
Well, I guess I like them too.

Q Girls, need a homecoming date? Ask a guy. There
are few things sexier than a girl who takes charge.

Q Girls, need a homecoming date? Ask a guy. There
are few things sexier than a girl who takes charge.

Q When was the last time you had a DTR?

Q Taking off a grass skirt proved easier than I
thought

(13 Email your anonymous quick hits to
phi@wlu.edu

