  

 
   
   

 

/ﬁmcix
-€?;'r8.75S
R551

r.

no. g

.lG'T
C-'1-

SAB now

called GAB,
plans more
than bands

GAB looking for
student involvement

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

The General Activities Board, for-
merly known as the Student Activities
Board, has undergone an expansion plan
to better serve the students of Wash-
ington and Lee.

“We will be working with SAO and
Contact and act more as an umbrella or-
ganization than before,” said Vice Presi-
dent of Publicity, Dan Fassio. Upcom-
ing events include the armual Homecom-
ing Concert at the Pavilion with the Drive
By Truckers, a gospel concert in Decem-
ber, and a possible band for Christmas
Weekend.’

Other events on campus include
Wednesday night comedy acts in the
Marketplace, Common Grounds Friday
nights in the Living Room focusing on
W&L acts, and Nooners where unusual

events will occur Fridays at noon out— «

side the Commons. At one planned
event, the GAB will show Ben Stiller’s
ﬁlm Dodgeball, followed by a dodgeball
tournament in which teams must wear
uniforms and register under silly names.
At another event, the GAB will invite
students to bring an item to the Com-
mons to throw from the roof into a pool
in order to see what ﬂoats and what
doesn’t.

Lauren Peters, President of GAB,
said the student body’s disapproval of
the SAB provoked the changes. The
new director of the Commons, Margo
McC1inton, approached the old SAB
about expanding the organization be-
yond bands alone. Student Activities
Director Todd Tate and Assistant Direc-
tor Kristen Powell also greatly inﬂu-
enced the restructuring of GAB.

An online survey and a suggestion
box will give students their first oppor-
tunity to contribute their opinions on
bands and other events. “We wanted to
make it campus-wide so everyone has a
say,” said Allan Galis, GAB’s Vice Presi-
dent of Administration.

After general student discontent in
recent years, GAB feels the pressure to
put on a big event—but a feasible event.
Many students complained that the SAB
did not bring in bands like the Rolling
Stones or Bob Dylan. According to Pe-
ters, the Rolling Stones would take up 3
years of GAB’s budget. Nevertheless,
Fassio said that the GAB would try their
hardest to please the student body.

According to Fassio, the best way
to impact the GAB is to join. GAB is

‘ looking for a diverse board, stressing

the importance that everyone can help
from Computer Science majors design-
ing web—pages to Accounting majors
doing treasury work. Interested parties
can interview next week on September
27 and 28. GAB can be contacted at
GAB@wlu.edu or by talking to Lauren
Peters, Allan Galis, or Dan Fassio.

  

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

Tin riudun‘ none of Washington and In Unineruh since 7897

PHOTO COURTESY KAH NDI
ROYAL BLOOD. In her high school photo, Ndi looks like an average girl. Little did they know....

 

Deck goes here to discuss feature story on princess

BY KATHERINE GREENE
STAFF WRITER

There is a girl at this school who goes through classes,
activities, and parties like we all do. There’s one small
difference, though: she’s a princess.

It may sound like the plot of The Princess Diaries,
but it is a reality for Kah N di, ’07. A native of Massa-
chusetts, Ndi is actually the heiress to a tribe of 1000-
plus Cameroonians in Central Africa.

Ndi is somewhat less than thrilled about the perks of
royalty. “One kid at a party did bow to me,” she said,
rolling her eyes. ‘‘It’s not that serious.”

“I think it’s funny that people care,” said the good-
natured sophomore, “because people back home [in
Massachusetts] don’t.”

Bianca Goodman ’08, met Ndi in her hometown of
Lowell, Mass., and was shocked to learn of her friend’s
royal status. “I would never have known,” Goodman
said.

This may be due in part to Ndi’s easy—going nature,
and her blithe attitude towards her heritage. “I’m not
very into it [the culture],” she said. “I like my life here.”

Ndi, frequently involved in Commons activities, has
little interest in ever returning to Cameroon, though
her parents fully intend to return to their home when
her ten—year-old brother leaves for college. “There’s
not much to go back to,” she said. “I mean, I could go

there and be comfortable, but chances are I won’t.”

She said, “My parents don’t understand why I’m so
apathetic about it, but they just want me to be happy.”

Ndi doesn’t assume any royal mannerisms. She said
that her uncle, also involved in the tribal leadership,
won’t even sit in a chair that has been touched by
another person, unless they too are royalty.

Apparently the Ndi family has a different attitude.
“We’re just simple folk,” said Ndi. “I put my pants on
one leg at a time, just like anybody else. I don’t have
any bodyguards, no Jaguar...I wash dishes just like
everybody.

“Personally,” she said, “I don’t feel it has any bearing
on my life.”

She admits that others from Cameroon treat her with
more respect “than they would a normal person my
age,” but says that she’s “really not that well—versed in
the history of Cameroon.”

There is one other Cameroonian custom the
American-born princess does not have to endure.
Friend Megan Murphy, ’07 said, “She doesn’t have
to go by the arranged marriage thing, so she’s
available.”

If you can find her, that is. The relatively humble
sophomore who calls herself “an open book” blends
right into the mix of students, just like anyone else.

They say all little girls are princesses. For Kah
Ndi, that is true.

PHI

VOL , No. 8

MONDAY,3El’1"EMBER 20,2004

New clubs
offer more
of a variety

Generalee, Theatre Outreach
give students many activities

BY KATHRYN KRAL1.
STAFF WRITER

The performing arts received ex-
citing new additions as two new stu-
dent organizations were approved by
the Executive Committee at their first
meeting.

Generalee is a woodwind quintet
composed of students clarinet, oboe,
bassoon, French horn, ‘and ﬂute per-
formers. “We all love to play and
thought we would sound great to-
gether, so we decided to start a group,”
said Eka Akpakip ‘O7, president of the
ensemble.

Their repertoire includes music
ranging from classical pieces, includ-
ing a Mozart minuet, to contemporary
arrangements, like the Pink Panther and
the Entertainer.

Since it is their first year together,
Generalee will not hold their first per-
forrnance until after Reading Days in
October.

A unique aspect of this group is
that it will continue to perform
throughout the Spring Term. Akpakip
explained, “Most music ensembles
only run through the Fall and Winter
terms, so many musicians and audi-
ences have nothing to do during
Spring term, and I think our group will
remedy this.”

Generalee plans to limit the group
to only ﬁve members until next year,
when they hope to expand through au-
ditions.

The second student organization
is Theatre Outreach, a program cre-
ated to provide enjoyable non—alco—
holic entertainment. It enables stu-
dents to socialize in a cultured envi-
ronment that most frat parties lack.

“The group creates t-shirt events
and date/single functions such as re-
ceptions and dinners and even spe-
cial perforrnances for participants sur-
rounding existing events on the The-
atre Season and Lenfest Center,” said
president Ligia Abreu ’06. “There was
a real need for activities beyond the
fraternity basement.”

Despite the talent and enthusi-
asm of the theatre department, many
students have no idea it exists.

Theatre Outreach serves a dual
purpose by both making available a
fun and lively social event and pro-
viding “the sometimes missing ele-
ment of an excited and interested stu-
dent audience,” according to Abreu.

The idea of Theatre Outreach
was conceived by graduated market-
ing major Jeff Meriggi. For a marketing
class, he began a project to benefit non-
drinking and independent students.
His project was so successful that it
continues as Theatre Outreach with
Tom Anderson serving as the faculty
advisor.

Students wishing to attend the
events should look for ﬂyers posted
on campus.

Students, faculty hammer out handbook changes
Incidents revolving around pledgeship, such as Beta Theta Pi investigation, inspired requests for clariﬁcation

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Changes to the Washington and
Lee 2004-2005 Student Handbook are in
progress.

Specific incidents last year, such as
Beta Theta Pi’s suspension for hazing,
prompted students and faculty to re-
quest clarification of the school’s judi-
cial procedures and policies. So the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee (SAC) asked a
subcommittee to begin drafting changes
to the student handbook.

According to General Council
Leanne Shank, members of Beta did not

know whether they should appeal to the
University Board of Appeals (UBA) af-
ter their Inter-Fratemity Council (IFC)
ruling, or whether they had to face SAC.
Proposed changes to the Student Hand-
book would clarify this.

“We are not removing any proce-
dures. We are not removing fair process
by any means,” said Shank. “We are pro-
vidingtclarity.” -

Further ambiguities appeared in the
distinction between hazing cases fac-
ing the IFC and Panhellenic or those fac-
ing the Student Faculty Hearing Board
(SFHB).

“If you look at who hears a hazing

case — in one place it says SFHB and in
another place it says IFC, but it doesn’t
necessarily say which body hears what
and when,” said Dean Watkins.

“So, it was left open to interpreta-
tion and the interpretation was: if it’s an
alleged hazing case having to do with at
Greek organization, the case would be
heard by IFC or Panhellenic, and if it’s
an alleged hazing case having to do with
an individual, it would to go SFHB,”
Watkins said.

The proposed handbook may also
say that students are expected to coop-
erate in hazing investigations.

“It does not say that if you don’t

cooperate, you may be pulled in front of
the EC,” said Shank. “But if you have
first hand knowledge of threatening ac-
tivities in the form of hazing, the expec-
tation is that you cooperate.”
Speculation and confusion has lead
many students to believe that proposed
policies might make remaining silent of
hazing violations an honor violation. But
there is “no way the honor system can
make people talk,” said Executive Com-
mittee (EC) President Marie Trimble.
The Student Handbook is reviewed
every year, typically over the summer.
But the 2003-2004 Handbook is currently
affective because potential changes to

this year’s Student Handbook have taken
longer than normal to complete.

The subcommittee has given a draft
student handbook to the President’s of-
ﬁce, but when the copy returns to SAC,
each of the six student judicial body will
meet to endorse or raise concerns over
changes to their processes.

Finally, the faculty must vote on the
handbook adjustments. Even then, noth-
ing is final.

“We’re in a process, which is why
there’s not much to say because we
don’t want folks to think there’s some-
thing going on that there’s not,” said
Dean Watkins.

  

  

PAGE 2 «,5,

are-rfnis G.tLE\!BuHr~.1. L.5.l:3l’‘.H.H ‘:
rssrnimon  me‘ an

3 . F‘=‘W\:,‘tf’?'-l7i”a '1. W2‘: 

MONDAY, SEPIERMBER 20, 2004

N   asltg

2 2 20819

Fre§l1man’s Oprah debut airs

O.C. starlet revamps Elli Walker's style, the freshmen comes to class with new look

F

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEws EDITOR

Bright smiles and new confi-
dence marked freshman Elliott
“Elli” Wa1ker’s appearance with
her twin Allie on The Oprah
Winfrey Show last Friday. The
sisters, who received a surprise
makeover from the television
show, displayed the result of
their sessions with Mischa
Barton, star of The 0. C. , and her
personal style team.

Allie and an Oprah camera crew
waylaid Elli in the Commons be-
fore start of classes to tell her
she’d been chosen for the
makeover. The Walkers spent
two days with Barton in Los
Angeles preparing for the show’s
airing last week.

“It was great!” Barton gushed
to Oprah on the show. “We had
so much fun.”

The episode, which also fea-
tured surprise visits by Usher
and Avril Lavigne to their fans,
revealed the trio in a shopping
frenzy. The actress shepherded
the Walkers through her favor-

 

 OPRAI-LCOM

“It was great!...We had so much fun!”

-ELUWALKER
ELLI, MIDDLE, suops THE MALL WITH MISCHA BARTON,
RIGHT AND sIsTER ALLIE ON LEFT

ite Hollywood boutiques, then
took them to her own hair stylist
and makeup artist for some per-
sonal attention.

But take away the fame and fancy

clothes, and all that’s left is a
group of girls. While the cam-
eras were off, Elli and Allie spent
some quality time in the limo with
Barton and her mother. The

Walkers, who were “blown away”
at the thought of Barton being
their age, talked with her about
how different their lives are. To
her surprise, Elli discovered that
the starlet is “genuinely nice.”
The Walkers felt a little less com-
fortable when they came onstage
to exhibit their new looks. Walk-
ing out in front of TV cameras
and a screaming audience was
“nerve-racking”, Elli admits.
Having her sister by her side and
her delighted parents in the front
row put her more at ease, even
inspiring her to strike a pose and
invite watchers to “come and get
it.”

“Once we got out there, it just
clicked,” Elli said. ,

Sadly, the Walkers only received
one outfit from their shopping
spree. But Elli plans to wear
hers—a red turtleneck, plaid skirt,
and black boots—around cam-
pus this year.

The Walkers’ new clothes came
primarily from Miss Sixty and
Veronica M. Privé Salon, West
Hollywood, handled hair and
makeup for the pair.

Chi Omega

“loves”

Make-A—Wish

Chi Omega is hosting a tennis
tournament to beneﬁt its philanthropy

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDlTOR—IN—CHIEF

Next weekend, Chi
Omega will be hosting a ten-
nis tournament to benefit
Make-A-Wish.

The name of the tour-
nament is the “Chi Omega
Classic,” and is the first time
Chi Omega has held such a
tournament. The Classic
begins at 10AM on Sunday,
September 26th at the out-
door tennis courts.

Chi Omega thanks
many local business for both
monetary donations
(Marlene’s Hairstylists, A
Positive Image Spa, Heslep
& Kearney P.C., Colonna &
Associates, Inc. and others)
and prize donations (Graden

Shoe Company, Intimate U,
Sweet Things, Fun Foods &
Accessories, among oth-
ers).

These donations, as
well as any proﬁt made from
the $15 registration fee that
players can swipe home
outside the Commons from
11-2 all this week go to ben-
efit our national philan-
thropy, the Make A Wish
Foundation, said Chi
Omega Service Chair
Dianne Winter.

“We really hope this
will be a success, not only
so we can make a signiﬁcant
donation to the Make A
Msh Foundation, but also
so we can hold the event
again next year,” said Wm-
ter said.

TALKBACK: Have you gone to the’ WorldFest International? Film Festival in the University Commons?

“I’ll probably go
to one or two.”
-Karen Blackburn ‘06

 

“I’m going this

aftemoon...it’s a once-

in-a-blue-moon thing
to have independent

films come.”
-Neil Sheaffer ‘O8

  

  

“I didn’t know
it was here.”
—Anna Rainey ‘O6

“I didn’t go...I didn’t
know much about it
and there were parties

and stuff to go to.”
-Hugh Trout ‘O8

“I wis I had gone to
more...I don’t want to
hear about there being

nothing to do here.”
-Katie Abplanalp ‘O5

    

“I’m not a big

movie buff.”
-Robbie Clark ‘O6

The GENERAL ACTIVITIES BOARD: (SAB Expansion plan)

WE ARE a student programming board that organizes most of Washington and Lee University’s campus activities. GAB’s programming caters to
the entire W&L community with entertainment options such as comic acts, movies, recreational activities, and large musical performances.

ALL STUDENTS at W&L are encouraged to apply to GAB. Members within GAB represent the Executive Board, Program Council (committee
chairs), and committee members. SAB is a wonderful place to get real world experience in a campus setting. We welcome ideas to enhance campus
programming. Feel free to send any questions, suggestions, or concerns to gab@wlu.edu. Here is some information on each GAB committee:

CONCERTS This committee organizes and plans every GAB concert, from big acts like Widespread Panic and Bruce Homsby to smaller acts like
DJ Skribble, Leftover Salmon, VACO, and student bands. If you are interested in production, booking, lighting, sound, or organizing large events
with top quality entertainment, then this is the committee for you.

FILM This committee is responsible for choosing movie titles shown in the John Elrod Commons. From box office hits like Finding Nemo and
Cold Mountain to staple classics like Wayne’s World and Wizard of Oz, this committee works with other organizations on campus to co—sponsor
GAB movie events.

GRAPHICS/Webmaster Do you like Art? How about Computers? Even better if you like both! This committee is stationed under GAB’s VP of
Publicity and works closely with the PR committee. This group is responsible for the design and implementation of all advertising, including
newspaper ads, ﬂyers, and posters. The GAB website, an important campus activity resource, also falls into the hands of the graphics committee.

PUBLIC RELATIONS Interested in marketing, advertising, or journalism? Students with enthusiasm and good people skills are an integral part of
GAB’s Public Relations team. Working with the graphics committee, this team tackles the enormous task of publicizing events and implementing a
campaign to promote the organization and raise campus awareness. Without PR, GAB just wouldn’t ﬂoat

NOONERS Speaking of ﬂoating. . ..Ever wonder if that random microwave in your basement will ﬂoat in a tank of water? Would you like to smash
fruit into oblivion with a baseball bat? If so, Nooners is your calling. This committee arranges activities occurring at noon (hence the name) on
selected Fridays around the Commons. The street performer quality of these activities invites the wacky and outrageous with open arms.

REGULAR EVENTS This committee organizes the regular campus events occurring most Wednesdays and Fridays and Game Days. On
Wednesdays at 8 pm, this committee organizes and hosts professional comedians with opening student acts. Common Grounds is the Friday night
coffee shop scene with acoustic music and beverage specials in the Elrod Commonsf Café 77. Regular Events’ responsibility for hosting pre-game
rallies brings BBQ and music to Canaan green before the big game. If you like to laugh, eat, and listen to.good__rn\11_s_i__c‘then this GAB committee
needs you. KT“ 6

RECREATION Like ﬂoating down the river? How about a day trip to DC? Or even ice skating at a five star resort? If you are on this committee
your job will be coordinating and going on these sporty, fun events. Other activities include Dodgeball tournament, volleyball tournament, March

Madness, and Super Bowl big screen nights.

Please direct any questions or comments to GAB President, Lauren Peters petersl@wlu.edu

  

 

ﬁ

 

MONDAY, SEIYFEMBER 20, 2004 .

raI';llIN<';—nII:PItI
STAFF EDITORIAL
Public pledgeship safest idea

Last week’s Phi led with the story,
“Possible changes in story for fraternity
pledgeship.” A shortened pledgeship was
among the changes discussed. The Phi
believes that an eight-week pledgeship
is ﬁne, and that shortening it any more
will only serve to cheapen brotherhood
and sisterhood.

We do not condone violence, abuse
or mental anguish. We do support bond-
ing and fellowship.

Many members of the Phi staff re-
member pledgeship activities from two
years ago. There was basketball out-
side the Co-op, free-style rapping on the
steps of the Co-op, cardboard cut-out
cars. We remember a kissing tollbooth
on the bridge to the sororities and a mock
battle in the old D-hall. Most of all, we
remember a pledge giving out free ham
sandwiches outside "the library. All of this
is now considered hazing because it is
visible, and not optional for the fraternity
pledges. .

But we ask, which is more danger-
ous: allowing boys to bond behind closed
doors or allowing pledges to plan funny
games to act out in front of the campus
community?

We think fun and games should win
out over the secret activities, which can-
not be regulated orcontrolled and which
may lead to danger.

In contrast, the light-hearted activi-
ties provide not only a sense of having
“earned” one’s brotherhood, but it also
provides quality entertainment for the rest
of campus. Everyone wins.

No matter how much authorities
want to control pledgeship, and for good
reason, considering how dangerous it can
be, Greek life is packed with traditions
and pledgeship is one of those traditions.

As a campus, we should recognize
the value of pledgeship and work to guide
Greek houses toward safe, beneﬁcial
pledgeship activities.

 

“Even samurai have teddy bears, and even
I thoseteddybearsgetdrunlé’

-OVerheardatPhiKapSaturday Night '

 

Editor in chief Erin Elizabeth Julius
Managing Editor Chris Lauderman

News Editor Sarah Mun-ay
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Emily Edwards
Photography Editor Corbin Biackford
Sports Editor Chad Kiewet de Jonge
Asst. Layout Editor Emily Hulen

C017)’ Editors Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis

Business Manager David Seifert
Circulation Director Rob Rain
Asst. Circ. Director Legget. Kitchin
Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.r_n. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: ph'i@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

  
 
 
 

CAIErANI>nIsON
OPINIONS EDITOR

FMAI;AAI>nIsO\1O@vIiIIrDII

PAGE 3

HV

WHITNEY DUFFEY

In tcday’s wodd, Washington and Lee sometimes seems out ofplace. After all,
where else can you leave your door unlocked, your possessions unattended for hours
atatime,orapﬂeofnmrieymﬂreGraharn-Leescmmyard,wiﬂ1dieconﬁder1ceﬂ1atﬂ1ey
will not be touched? Our institutions unique Honor System guarantees this. The sole
responsibility of students under this code is to comport themselves honorably; there is
no codiﬁed set of laws deﬁning a student’s behavior in this sense. While some conduct
is clearly in violation of _this philosophy (lying, stealing, cheating), there are other
instancesinwhichabreach oftrustisless clear. Insuchcases, itisthegeneral conscri-
sus of the student body which should indicate to the Executive Committee (EC) right
fnomwrong.Thisis apowerful tool forasystemwithnootsdatingbackto 1865; itallows
theHonorSystemtoadapttoeachincominggenera1ionofsu1dentsandthereforebe
most eifective in maintaining honorable action even with considerable changes in
culture. These questions of policy should not be taken lightly by students but weighed
carefully. One suchissueisatopic ofconoemto ourstudentbodyrightnow: whether
or not using a fake ID constitutes an honor violation

While no speciﬁc guidelines for student behavior under the Honor System have
everbeenwmpibdithasgeneraﬂybeenmdemmodﬂiatdesysternmaelyasks
students to act with honesty, integrity, and responsibility. Under these conditions, the
possessionanduseofafakelDconﬂictsgreaﬂywiththeHonorSystemWhenyou
use false identiﬁcation that says you are 21, you have deliberately been deceitful, are
certainly not acting with integrity, and you are lying at least about your age (if not your
entire identity). One who uses it is obviously not being honest .

However, ifyoucannotbeconvincedbythespiritofthe1aw,thenperhapsthe
lenerwﬂlpasuadcyou.h1TlnWlnteBookaW&Lsmdent’sg1ndemmderswnding
the Honor System, there are many instances where language cleady points against the

use of fake ID’s. According to the written philosophy of the Honor System, the code’s_

basis is “a spirit oftrust [that] pervades all aspects of student life.” ALL aspects of
studentlife. Soinotherwondsjustasyoucan’tdeclinetocheatonatestbutthencheat
inasport,youcannotreﬁ.Isetodeceiveaprofessorbutproceedtodeceivearnemberof
the Lexington comrrnrnity with false identiﬁcation After all, The White Book clearly
states tint students must “represent themselves truthfully.” Notice it is not followed by
the phrase ‘when it’s convenient.”

'IheECtakesthismisrepresentationvery seriously;justtwoyearsagoastudent
withdrewinthefaceofaclosedhearingaﬁerbeingchargedwiizhtheuseofafakell).
Plus,ifsomeoneelsehasgivenyoutheirlDtouse,thaIpersonwilllnve suchcharges
placed ontheirpermanentrecordaswell.

Finally, ignorirIgthefactﬂ1atfal<eH)’sviolateﬂiemoralcomerstoneofthis institu-
tion, areclearlyincontrasttothelanguage of'IheWhiteBook,willprobablygetyou
kicked out of schoolANDinlegal trouble. . .haven’tyou guys scenthelatestPrinceton
Review standings? You really don’t need one.

Response from Shell

Doesanyorreinlexingtonpay atterrtiontotheinrderagedrinldngatﬁaternity
houses and offcampus dwellings? Last night, did you hear someone ask your age
beforetheyhandedyouabeer? No,andthisiswhyou.rsystemworks withoutfakeids.
Oursocial sceneallowsustodrinkasmuchaswewantwithoutidentiﬁcation Needless
to say, very rarely do we wony about this Virginia law.

Also,forclariﬁca1ion,thesuidernWH‘fﬂ)REW;meaningheorsheHADNOT
YEFbeenfoundguiltyofanHV. ThequestionofwhethertheFCdoesinfactfeelthat
fakeidsareanHVdependsontheparticul_arcomrnittee. PastFCshavesaidthatthey
wouldnotin factfeelthatanHonorViola1ionhadtakenplacewiththeuseofafakeid
Because of our Honor Systemas awhole, andtheway it works, we determine whatis
andwhatisnotanhonor violation We considertheintentbehindtheaction We have
acommitteeformedtcdoso. Asast11dentbody,wedonotfeelthatunderagedrinking
isanHV;eventhoughwebreakthelaweachlirnewedoit

Asaﬁnalpoint,IdonotfeelthattheuseoffakeidsinLexington,V1rginiaissmart
or needed However; when we go out of our own enviromnent and enter that of another
campus,weneedtorememberﬂiatomnormalwaysofhvingdonotcoincidevnthﬂiose
ofmostcampusesacrossthenation Someplacesconsideritnecessarytohaveagood

fake id before they have their books, or dorm supplies. In some towns, bouncers, -

bartendersandwaiuessesknow thatthey arebeinghandedfake ids dayinanddayout.
However, with that small piece of paper, they have zero responsibility for the action
Because there, police WILL actually enter places and charge people with underage
 fIhankgoodnessforLexington; we don’tneedthatsmallpiece ofpapertobe
abletodn'nkasmuchaswewant,whenwewantit, andwithwhomeverwewanttodrink
itwith. » ‘

No HV

KATHERINE SHELL

When a W&L student visits another college campus where fake ids
are prevalent, and even socially acceptable, is it against our Honor Sys-
tem to present a fake id in order to get into a bar or get alcohol? Person— I
ally, I think not. Though our Honor System extends to each individual,
no matter their location, the basis of our honor system lies in the single
sentence, “To act as a gentleman or gentlewoman.” '

Gentlemanly, or gentlewomanly, behavior goes in accord with adapt-
ing to each culture. What is normal and socially acceptable one place is
not necessarily socially acceptable at another. When we visit another
college, generally speaking, we wish to experience their lifestyle; we
want to see what other colleges do for fun on a given night. We shouldn’t
expect their behaviors to be exactly like ours, because they are part of an
entirely different social scene. ‘

Bars in certain college towns across the U.S.A. depend on under-
age drinkers for much of their financial support. Though this is against
the law, it is a fact for many places. Fake ids simply become an “out” for
bartenders and bouncers to avoid police. We’ve all heard the phrase,
“You just have to show them something.” Once some sort of identifica-
tion is shown, punishment will be put on the individual if they are caught,
rather than the place of business. Without under-age drinking, many
bars would not be able to survive and would push the social scene out
of a city.

W&L students as a whole get used to alcohol ﬂowing freely around
fraternity houses and off-campus parties. In fact, we are so used to
being able to find alcohol any time we want, that we forget that most
college students do not have that kind of ease. If we want alcohol, at
most we simply have to ask someone to buy it for us. Once we go to
another college campus, people are not as likely to offer us alcohol or
buy us anything, even if we pay for it. In order to experience another
college’s average night out, in some places, fake ids are necessary.

However, I would like to say that I feel it is unnecessary to use fake
ids in Lexington. Alcohol is not difficult to find. This promotes a non-
fake id based social scene just as much as it expects its students to
never cheat or steal. There is no point to use a fake id in Lexington; it is
not worth raising the question of an Honor Violation to a group of people
that may or may not agree with fake ids. All one really has to do is walk
into almost any fraternity house on campus and ask for a drink. They’re
always happy to oblige. Our lifestyle, however, is not the standard
lifestyle of other colleges, and we must realize this when we visit other
campuses.

We are set apart from other universities for a reason, and I think
we’d all like to keep it that way.

Response from Duffey H

The story goes that when Robert E. Lee became president of our
university, a student asked him what the rules were. He replied that
one should simply behave as a gentleman. He did not say, “To be-
have like a gentleman...when it’s convenient,” or “To behave like a
gentleman, unless nobody else is.” To say that you should be able to
negate the restrictions of the Honor System when others do not act
in similar fashion eats away at what the Honor System essentially is.
It is a basic principle of living that stays with many students for the
rest of their lives and is the reason why W&L grads are renowned for
honorable behavior in the business world and in their personal lives.
To say that the rules don’t apply to you if no one else follows them
has dangerous implications. Say all of your friends use fake ID’s and
because you want to “go with the ﬂow” you decide to as well; figur-
ing if everyone is doing it, it must be okay for me to. When does this
train of logic stop? Any Honor Violation could then be justified by
the response “but everyone was doing it.” The bottom line is this: to
justify an action merely because others were doing so does not make
it right. Our lifestyle may be different from those of other universities
but this is a fact to be proud of, not something to discard when you
feel it suits you.

Honor Violation-
45%

Qu1'cIq)o1l- “Should use of Fake IDs be considered an Honor V1'oIat1'o11 by the EC?”
' No Honor Violation-

53 students polled, 29 female, 24 male. Poll has 95% confidence in a +/- 5% margin of error

Not Sure-
49% 6%

  

 

PAGE 4



MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004

Expiration of Assault Weapons Ban endangers everyone

Let me put it this way- there

- is absolutely no good reason for

people to own guns that were
prohibited by the Federal Assault
Weapons Ban. None. No pos-
sible argument that is both sane
and logical for an ordinary Ameri-
can citizen to own, say, a TEC-9
exists. Home defense? Please.
Assault weapons are just that-
they’re for assault. To defend
your home from the hordes of
robbers that are out there, other
arms (shotguns, heavy pistols)
are far more effective given the
close quarters, not to mention

limitless funds of the NRA,
Washington’s most powerful
lobby.

I can understand owning a

hunting riﬂe. That’s reasonable ,

and even admirable. Owning a
handgun for defense is under-
standable, and certainly allow-
able. Even owning a heavier
weapon like a shotgun in order
to defend your home and to clean
while talking to your daughter’s
new boyfriend is fine by me. But
in my book, people who don’t
work for museums/armories/the
rnilitary/collection houses who

less creepy. Hunting? Please tell a c - tually own
me you’re not  heavy assault
going to riddle MODERATE 5 MUSINGS weapons are ei-

a deer with a
gun that can
fire thousands
of rounds a minute. And if you
honestly believe that you need
to keep heavy arms just in case
you need to start a revolution,
should the government become
totalitarian, go join the guy in the
picture to the right.

Like I said, there’s no good
reason. And yet, as you might
expect from those fine people
who work to represent our best
interests in Washington, Con-
gress allowed the Federal ban on
these weapons to expire. Presi-
dent Bush had indicated that he
would sign a renewal of the ban,
but Republican leadership in
Congress decided just to let the
ban fade away without action.
The, reason of course, is the fine,
red-blooded American organiza-
tion called the National Riﬂe As-
sociation, who would probably
defend the right of American citi-
zens to maintain a private nuclear
arsenal in every home. Congress
voted to let the Assault Weap-
ons Ban die because of pressure
from the NRA. Remember, it’s an
election year. When the ban was
first passed about 10 years ago,
many of the brave politicians who
supported it paid during the sub-
sequent election thanks to the

CAIEY ANDERSON ‘O6

ther a- govem—
ment—phobes,
often in mili-
tias, b— criminals who need the
guns to commit violent crime, c-
one of those people who are just

obsessed with guns, and prob- '

ably have a whole room full of
exotic weaponry at their house,
or d- simply crazy. I’d really pre-
fer to keep these kinds of weap-
ons out of the hands of all these

' people.

This shouldn’t even be a de-
bate. A few crazies and gun fa-
natics have hijacked the Republi-
can party in order to serve their
own malicious purpose. Republi-
cans who AREN’T subject to the
NRA’s slander are unanimously in
favor of the ban. When the ban
was first under consideration,
Ronald Reagan and Gerald Ford
were among those who wrote in
encouraging Congress to pass it.
The current President indicated
his willingness to sign a ban re-
newal. Yet, those in Congress who
stand shaking in their boots, fear-
ful of a ridiculous interest group,
have sacriﬁced the safety of the
American people to the conse-
quences of this woeful lack of ac-
tion.

What are those conse-
quences? Well, as you might re-
member, the ban was originally

a

Photo from tomeaker.com

SMILE, NOD, BACK AWAY SLOWLY. Advocates of letting the assault weapons ban expire include this guy., likely the N RA’s model American citizen.

passed in response to a string of
gun violence involving these
heavy weapons, culminating in a
shootout between Los Angeles
police and a few very heavily-
armed bank robbers. The police
were armed with a standard—issue
9mm pistol. The robbers had
heavy, rapid fire assault weapons,
high—class body armor, grenades,
and heavy auxilary weapons.
Most of the robbers’ armament
was either store-bought, or could
be found legally in stores at the
time of the shootout. The fatali-
ties that resulted were the ﬁnal
straw for many.

And now, the ban expires.
Police chiefs across the nation
were outraged at Congress last

week for failing to renew the ban,
citing numbers that predicted an
almost certain increase in violent
crime and gun—related death as a
direct result of the end of the ban.
There can be no doubt in my mind
that as of last Monday, our streets
are less safe, more susceptible to
the disgruntled or crazy person
who decides he or she wants to
go out and kill at random. Who
needs a string of sniper crimes in
the D.C. area when you can have
a one-man army, a guy who just
got fired perhaps, mentally un-
stable, mad at society, wants re-
venge on everyone, just strolling
the streets with what’s effectively
his own personal autocannon,
laughing at police because they

only have pistols?

Or hey, better yet, why don’t
we arm every student inAmerica’s
secondary schools, since we
know that now thisban is expired,
we’re going to have pissed—off,
half-insane kids strolling down
the halls with automatic weapons.
I mean, they might as well be able
to fire back Come on, Congress.
I’ve been through a school shoot-
ing. Santana High School, Santee,
California, March 5th, 2001. I was
shot at. Luckily (if there’s any-
thing lucky about a school shoot-
ing), the kid had a pistol. The trag-
edy was that he still managed to
kill two people and wound 15. If
he had had an assault riﬂe, he
would have killed a lot more

people, your humble author most
likely included.

So thanks, Congress.
Thanks for not having the guts
to stand up to the fools at the
NRA. The 2nd Amendment is
well and good, and should indeed
be supported, but the right to bear
‘arms doesn’t mean the right to
bear every conceivable arm.
Wayne LaPierre will be happy
with you, and doubtless millions
of dollars in campaign contribu-
tions will come from this. Mean-
while, I hope we all can live with
the “minor inconvenience” (as
the NRA terms crazed citizens
with guns) of dying children and
other innocents. America’s blood
is on Congress’ hands.

We more about the journey than the destination- A sophomores contemplations

To me, there is nothing more annoying that
the person who can’t refrain from constantly
comparing everything at W&L to the way it
was back home. Of course, I am admittedly one
of these people.

The first article I ever read out of the Ring-tum
Phi was written by the Potato Man himself on
the culture shock of moving to the south. His
views exactly mimicked my

own amazement at the south-

ern traditions and mannerisms
acted out by our fellow peers.
Already this year, I have no-
ticed a major trend here on campus that vastly
differs from the general attitudes I have experi-
enced at home.

Being a native of Colorado and having only
ever lived in two houses (the first can nearly
be seen from the second), I feel as though I am
in close contact with the pulse of the semi-ru-
ral Colorado scene. My yearly trips to seri-
ously-rural Nebraska also confirm my belief
that the pace of life out west holds a valuable
lesson for the students running around cam-
pus and makes me wonder... What’s the rush?

Upon my first meeting with my advisor this
term, I discovered that I‘ could be eligible to

 

INTRODUCING...
CARISSA SHIPLEY ‘07 -

graduate in three years. While this is in no way
confirmed by any member of the administra-
tion or the head of the department, just the mere
suggestion got me thinking about the possi-
bilities that only three years of college could
open up. Firstly, I could be free of loi-
tering about campus taking classes that don’t
specifically interest me.
Secondly, I would be saving
A LOT of money. I am, how-
ever, on a full scholarship pro-
vided by two private investors
with whom I have carefully
cultivated a nineteen year long relationship.
I’m sure that they would be beyond grateful to
save the appalling amount of money it takes to
pay not only the tuition, but also the plethora
of other fees and living expenses. Their grate-
fulness may actually allow me to graduate debt-
free and fiscally ready to start life on my own
in graduate school or in the work force.
Thirdly, the sheer task of graduating in
three years could be appealing to the afore-
mentioned employer or grad school admissions
counselor. '
Faced with these plusses, I began re-
searching law schools, taking particular notice

phi @wlu. edu

Write for the Phi-

 

f‘3LuLiv.'n L i"»1'-';'1rIi.Ir;’-rI'3lr i}:

$99"

aw iv1.i4\.| Pub‘;-.i,'_§.g

 

It°s time to exercise something
other than your mind

Iirdlyﬁpiae no wed: ouuha: ﬁnsunal suudmt
bodgetand abuq: student shedde. Our.v5is3IIJ-
mhuuﬁma ommonanse Iwﬁiclosaand all

  

Ola-rozaﬁrﬁ busaﬁwu aomlhnidc

dicsippmyw
|'o.~..1' .‘Serr.1~::stv.:-r :o:d;::'|¢'-‘t 
N"N.°JH5iMAmui°rd-com I r- _i-r—.I :|.III1:!V\ -I_mr¢-if."
(540) 464-5546
?'&DNI.e= Hwy
Luingbon. ‘M24450

'7-¢.....I...:..,.s.Is.,,.,.|uI..I...u,|....s.s...a..s..v.u .+-,...u+..|.,L....I..... Nun .u. ..,.a..-,....J....|
an

of the University of Colorado— Boulder law
school and especially its in-state tuition. I
could be sittin’ pretty in relatively few years.
Then I realized that I don’t even know where
exactly I would be sitting, nor if I actually
would want to be there.’

I was so excited about having a destina-
tion that I didn’t even consider the importance
of the actual getting there.
Yes, I wouldn’t have to take
classes not required generally
or for my major, but I might
miss out on something really

fun or memorable. After all, it result While running between
is usually the deviation of the ' classes, club meetings, social '
normal that particularly sticks CARISSASHIPLEY events, and studying, I under-

out as some sort of defining
moment.

Yes, I would be saving a lot of money, but
that money pays for a wonderful and unique
experience which made me pick W&L over other
schools to start with. Many people of all ages
have told me that their four years of college
was the best of their life. Would I really want
to give one away?

Only three years worth of classes makes
those first term GPAs harder to pull up and a

Enjoy each moment for
what it is and savor the
journey as much as the

degree is still appealing to employers and ad-
missions counselors when obtained in four
years, especially from a school like W&L.

While a numeric value can be put on one
year of studying here, the value of the actual
experience must also be considered.‘
Taking a lesson from the folks back home, I
would encourage students to stop and appre-
ciate what they personally gain
from the time they spend here.
Enjoy each moment for what it
is and savor the journey as
much as the result.

stand how the fast pace of life
and ﬂurry of activity can make
the time ﬂy. Knowing that the pros may out-
weigh the cons and I may only have three years
here, I have begun to appreciate each experi-

ence of life for what it is knowing that I will '

never have another chance to repeat this part
of my life again.

Sometimes slowing the pace of life and
really enjoying can be more rewarding than
concrete accomplishments.

  

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
540-3486220 ' l-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

CallforworIrshop&dassinIonnation.

   
     
   
 
    
   
  
 

Halfway between lexington and Staunton
On I-81 / I-64 at exit 205. liaphine. miles west on
Route 606. Raphine R/W /M14‘!/M a working
farm that offers "U-PICK” opportunities for fresh
fruit when in reason.

Tires - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
uiLw.9x§!arnshsn.s29n

   

  

 

    

MARSHAILRUIE
Asst. SPORIS EDIFOR

-_ FMAlL'RIlIE’@WIUE)U

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

Defense has

1

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee football opened
its home season with a solid victory
against a tough Sewanee team. The Gen-
erals (1-1) shut out the Tigers (1-2) with a
score of 12-0 at Washington and Lee’s
home ﬁeld.

“We played at a high level of inten-
sity and focus, and we were able to break
open a couple of big plays,” said tenth
year coach Frank Miriello.

The fifty-tliree game history between
the two teams has forged a strong rivalry
with Washington and Lee usually coming
out ahead. Last year, however, the Tigers
pounded them, sparking in the Generals
added impetus to emerge victorious and
prove their ability to the home fans.

After a scoreless ﬁrst quarter, the Gen-
erals came alive with a drive triggered by
excellent special teams play. A blocked
punt positioned Washington and Lee on
their own 45 yard line.

On the first play, quarterback Greg
Tweardy connected with Taylor Callaham
for a 19 yard pickup. Callaham would pull
in four more catches for a total of 51 yards.

After a couple of run plays, the Generals found
themselves with a fourth—and-inches at the 15 yard
line. A successful rush up the middle kept the
drive alive, but four plays later, the team found it-
self in the same position. The coaching staff again
gave the go—ahead signal and with a quarterback
sneak, the Generals scrambled to another first down.

Next, Greg Tweardy turned a broken play into
a clever screen pass for a gain of ﬁve yards. Posi-
tioned on the one yard line, the team surprised their
opponents by running a pass play. Tweardy found
Ryan Sullivan in the comer of the end zone for the
first touchdown on the home field. A blocked field
goal attempt gave the Generals a 6-0 lead over the

 RL\l(3-”l’UM Piii

PORTS

Sewanee team with over 7 minutes remaining in the
first half.

Suffering several commanding sacks, the Ti-
gers found themselves unable to answer, and the
Generals took the lead into the locker room.

A hard fought battle from the opening kickoff,
the General’s defense dominated the ﬁeld. With a
school record nine sacks, the secondary allowed
the opposition few options and little breathing room.

The defensive line stiﬂed the Tiger’s ground
game, giving up just 5 net yards rushing on 44
attempts.

“This game was on the defense- they just
played lights—out football,” said Tweardy.

The second half started out slowly, with each

J ..

team losing possession on quick three—and—outs.
Sewanee intercepted a Tweardy pass, but the de-
fense picked up where the offense left off, and the
Tigers turned it over on downs. A defensive battle
ensued, but the Generals were able to protect their
lead.

After a poor outing in the opener at Alfred,
the rushing squad knew that they had a lot to
prove. With new energy and enthusiasm, the of-
fensive line was able to open up creases for junior
running back Michael Lackett to work his magic.
Lackett had a gaine-high 53 yards and a new long
of 16 yards.

Freshman defensive back Kyle Harvey had a
breakout game, notching ﬁve tackles and two cru-

   

Roc / THEG-M PHI
DEEFENSE. The Generals’ defense held strong against Sewanee, and earned a 12-0 win against the long—time rival.

PAGE 5

record game against historic rival

cial sacks, but his biggest play came with
seven rriinutes remaining in the game.
Perched on a precarious 6-0 lead, the Gen-
erals knew they had to solidify their ad-
vantage. With incredible ﬁeld vision,
Harvey intercepted Sewanee’s pass and
returned it 50 yards for a touchdown.
“The offensive line really pressured the
quarterback, lirriiting his options, and I
was able to read the play and pick it of ,”
said Harvey. The following two point con-
version was unsuccessful, giving the
Generals a 12-0 lead.

defense since the 1998 season. It was
the only interception returned for a touch-
down since 1992.

The Tigers knew that now was the time
to mount a comeback. They tried to rally
by putting together a quick drive, but their
attempt was squelched by a perfectly-
timed interception by freshman Matt
Paulino. This crushed all hope of a late
riposte and solidified the victory for
Washington and Lee.

The tearn’s excitement was contagious,
and the entire fan section jumped to its
feet, where it remained for the ﬁnal minutes.

“The chemistry of this team is terriﬁc. The last few
years have been drudgery, but they are having fun
this year,” said Miriello.

The Generals played a balanced game, with the
defense, special teams and offense doing their part.
“It is important that we keep a positive attitude and
play as a team. We need to deﬁne ourselves as the
smartest team on the ﬁeld,” said Tweardy, who com-
pleted 21-of-32 passes for a total of 107 yards.
Kyle Harvey summed up the game and said, “If we
give this type of effort in the rest of the games, we
should pull out more wins. We can ride this mo-
mentum into the rest of the season and into confer-
ence play.”

Proﬁle: Tom Brower

Freshman cross country runner ‘meant’ to run
Brower wins ﬁrst collegiate race at Washington and Lee Invitational

BY DIANA DOZIER
STAFF WRITER
Tom Brower, from Syracuse, NY, made some
heads turn at the W & L Invitational this past Sat-

urday. Running the strenuous ﬁvemile cross coun-
try course in only 29: 17, Brower broke the tape and

I the record, placing first in the opening meet. And,

he is only a freshman.

Brower was ecstatic on his own win and the
team’s victory, saying that he had hoped to come
in and make an impact his first year, but he could

never have predicted his first place ﬁnish in the
opening race.

Brower thanks Coach Tucker and senior cap-
tains Steve Chambers and AJ Johnson,
complimenting their leadership.

“We are all so close, you can just tell everyone
wants to be there and truly loves the sport. I’ve
never been on a team that is this close,” he said.

Having to recover from mono in order to com-
pete his senior year at the Christian Brothers Acad-
emy, Brower won the 2004 Footlocker North East
M Championship. Improving from

    

florist  garden

his twenty—first place finish from
the prior year, this was his only
other first place ﬁnish in a big
meet before joining the W & L
squad.

After his impressive win, Brower sets his sights
on a successful season, not only for himself per-
sonally, but for the entire W & L team. His goal is
to be distinguished as First- Team All-ODAC, maybe
be an All-Southeast Freshman, and just to be a
“big player in Regional’s.” However, most impor-
tantly, he wants his team to compete at Nationals.
Tom Brower, a drummer and a prospective politics
major, also competes in both winter and spring track,
keeping him running on and off the track year-
round. He says his favorite race is the 5k (a little
more than 3 miles), but runs anything from the 200
meter dash to 10k street races.

When asked why he liked to run, “Not that
question,” he said, laughing. “It’s hard to explain.
It’s just something that feels right. I’m just meant
to do it.”

540.453.9841

603 NORTH LEE HIGHWAY

tIIaiaiI'ersaII@mIaIpIIia/mt
mntztirepieliarsanliaristimdganle/u.-ant

464-'-9042

SCREEN PRINTING
-"--=.__________,-=-

 

EMBROIDERY

637 Waddell St.
Lexington Va.

 

Write for the
Ring—tum Phi

COURTESY SPORTS INFORMATION

FRESI-[MAN CROSS COUNTRY RUNNER TOM BROWER.

E-mail phi @wlu.edu

STRINGED INSTRUMENT
Expert Repair & Set-Up

Guitars &Basses
Acoustic &Electric

"  Local Service/Will Pick up & Deliver!

LEO LORENZONI
Luthier

540-258-1401

ReferencesAvailable

EQUAL TIME

A New Public Affairs

Program

Join host Brian
Murchison
Tuesdays

Listen on

WLUR 91.5 FM
or online at
w|ur.wlu.edu

This touchdown marked the first for they

PAGE 6 ' MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

Sibirs
Womens’ soccer

continues winning

LEXINGTON, Va. — Sophomore forward Anne Wrltshire (Rich-
mond, Va./Collegiate) scored a goal and added an assist to help lead
the Washington and Lee women’s soccer team to a 3-0 victory over
Greensboro College on Sunday afternoon at Watt Field.

Wﬂtshire gave the Generals (3-O-2) a 1-0 lead at the 39:56 mark
when she received a pass from sophomore defender Huntley Rodes
(Nashville, TennJHarpeth Hall) and ﬁred it into the back of the Greens-
boro net.

The W&L lead stood at 1-0 until six minutes into the second half
when sophomore midﬁelder Rebecca Cohn (Virginia Beach, Va./N or-
folk Academy) scored an unassisted goal. Less than nine minutes
later, W&L ended the scoring when Wrltshire set up sophomore for-
ward Sarah Helms (Charlotte, N.C./Myers Park), who scored her ﬁrst

 

goal of the year.

The Pride ( 1-4-1) was outshot 17-6 and had a 6-2 disadvantage in

comer kicks.

W&L senior goalkeeper Emily Barker (Clifton, VaJMount Vernon)
made three saves to secure her fourth shutout of the season.

On Saturday, the Generals played a close game with Randolph-
Macon College. The Generals stole the win (1-0) with the only goal
scored by the Randolph-Macon goal keeper when she accidentally

kicked the ball into her own net.

Senior goal-keeper Emily Barker played goalie, making 3 saves
for the Generals. She claimed her third shutout of the season.
On Wednesday, the team handily defeated Randolph-Macon

Womens’ College 8-0.

-Phi staff writer Sarah Bloom contributed to this story.

CHAD Kn-:wrET DEJONGE THE R1NG—TUM PHI

DOWN THE LINE. Forward Anne Wiltshire dribbles down the outside as a Randolph-Macon defender approaches to challenge her. On Sunday,

W/iltshire scored a goal and recorded an assist as the Generals defeated Greensboro, 3-0.

NFL Preview: Parity in league should make for an exciting season

I am a Miami Dolphins fan and I’m excited about
the new NFL season. I know, it doesn’t make sense,
but despite my team’s newfound suckiness I still
have reason to smile, and it isn’t just from thinking
about Shaq (still makes me giddy every time I see
him on TV).

So what about this NFL season could possi-
bly be so great? Parity. There, I said it. For some
reason that word gets such a nega-

one apparent weakness: wide receiver. They did far
more than just fill the whole though. Terrell Owens
gives them someone to turn to for a big play other
than Donovan McNabb and makes the wide re-
ceiver position a strength for this team. Then they
add Jevon Kearse on top of it. I can’t think of a
better ﬁt for the pass rushing scheme of the Eagles
without turning to my beloved Jason Taylor. . .and

the Eagles can’t have him. But

tive reaction these days, but I think HEALTHY VENTING in my opinion the edition of T0
it’s the best thing to happen to foot- , alone makes them the most in-
ball. Before writing this my NFLpre- RYAN GRITTER 07 timidating team in the NFL and
view article I was thinking about the favorites in the NFC to make

what teams I thought were the clear-cut favorites. I
came up with the Patriots and the Eagles and then
about 8 to 10 other teams that have a legitimate
chance.

The makeup of the NFL is very similar now to
baseball. The Pats and Eagles are the Yankees and
Red Sox of football, and the rest of the league is
anybody’s guess. In this case, though, it’s my
guess, so without further ado, here are the teams
that I view as the prime contenders for the Super
Bowl.

-New England Patriots — This list has to start
with the reigning champs, especially when the reign-
ing champs get signiﬁcantly stronger in the off-
season. For the last three years the Pats have sur-
prised us all as they win with limited talent on of-
fense, especially in the running game. We’ve ex-
plained their success as a result of the brilliance of
Brian Belichick and Offensive Coordinator Charlie
Weis. So take their scheme that has already won 2
Super Bowls in 3 years and add Corey Dillon at half
back and it’s just scary. . .even if Corey Dillon isn’t
as good as in Cincinatti.

°Philadelphia Eagles — The other clear con-
tender is, of course, the Eagles. After three con-
secutive losses in the NFC championship game the
Eagles did the same as the Pats, they filled their

the Super Bowl. . .or join a support group with early
90’s Bills fans.

°Seattle Seahawks — The Seahawks are a popu-
lar pick this season, and with good cause. Last
year they made the playoffs despite a weak de-
fense because of their skill position players, who
could be the best in the league. QB Matt Hasselbeck
had a breakout year and should do the same this
year throwing to Koren Robinson and Darrel Jack-
son and Bobby Engram, who put up stellar num-
bers for a third receiver. VVrth Shaun Alexander at
HB the offense isn’t questioned, but the defense
must improve. The Seahawks worked hard to do
this in the off-season by attaining the likes of Grant
Vifrstrom and 15‘ Round pick Marcus Tubbs. The
defense doesn’t have to be amazing, and it should
be good enough to give them a shot in the playoffs
provided the offensive core stays healthy.

-Denver Broncos — It appears the Broncos will
be able to run without Clinton Portis, which just
further solidiﬁes Shanahan and the rest of the
coaching staff as offensive masterminds compa-
rable to the Belichick and Weis. It creates a great
system whereby they can trade a star halfback for
any need and someone else will simply step in and
rush for 1500 yards. 1 mean, Mike Anderson ran for
almost 1500 yards in 2000, and what does he play

now?...fullback. Vifrth a solid running game and an
emerging star at QB in Jake “the Snake” Plummer
they’ll still be able to put up plenty of points, and
the additions of S John Lynch and CB Champ
Bailey their defense should ﬁnally be strong enough
to let them run the clock out a little.

-Tennessee Titans — The Tennessee Titans are
basically what the Atlanta Falcons aspire to be.
They have a strong defense every year and a dy-
namic, playmaking quarterback who can lead an
effective offense without an effective rushing at-
tack. They suffered big losses on the defensive
line, but this team always seems to rise above it
and have a dominant run defense no matter who
they lose. Perhaps Jeff Fisher deserves all the credit
he’s given. Either way, Eddie George wasn’t a loss
at all, and in fact ﬁnally clears the way for someone
else to start now they no longer are obligated to
him. Chris Brown should be refreshing for Tennes-
see fans and should be a great fit since he’s not
asked to carry the team, McNair has that under
control. Look for the emer-
gence of WR Tyrone Calico,
who physically is compared
to Terrell Owens and David
Boston 3 years ago, to keep
this receiving core ridicu-
lously deep.

-Green Bay Packers —
It’s been said that you can’t
win a Super Bowl without a
dynamic quarterback, unless
you have a record—setting
defense (Ravens). Anyways, the Packers certainly
have that in Brett Favre, and despite the unimpres-
sive receiving core we must remember that these
receivers were selected by Brett Favre and he’s
extremely comfortable with them. But the passing
game is far less impressive than the running game,
led by Ahman Green. Green had 2000 total yds, 20

The makeup of the NFL is
Very similar now to
baseball. The Pats and
Eagles are the Yankees and
Red Sox of football, and
the rest of the league is
anybody’s guess.

total TD’s, and averaged 5.3 yards per carry. Green
and Favre create a beautifully balanced offense.
Granted they have huge defensive concerns, I’m
never going to count Brett Favre out of the Super
Bowl hunt. And if he says their going to win one, I
think we should listen. The intangibles that come
along with a guy like Favre are unmatched by any
player in the league not named Ray Lewis.

About now all the Kansas City, Baltimore, and
Carolina fans are gripping the paper rather tight.
These teams’ are in fact contenders, but not quite
on the caliber of the above six. KC has huge defen-
sive concerns revealed by Jake Plummer and
Quentin Griffin. . ...ouch. The Ravens of course have
no quarterback. This might not stop them from con-
tending, as Trent Dilfer proved, and any team with
Ray Lewis and a 2000 yd rusher certainly has a
chance. . ...especially one notorious for slow starts.
And remember, the Pats started last year 0-2. Caro-
lina I believe was a bit of a ﬂuke last year, similar to
the Bears a few years back who had a miracle sea-
son with many close victo-
ries. They won’t be horrible,
probably something like 8-8,
but they won’t be in the Su-
per Bowl this year. The Fal-
cons of course can’t be
counted out if Michael Vick
is healthy, since he already
brought them to the playoffs
once on his own and with a
far weaker receiving core.
Now he has weapons but no
defense....who knows? Here’s my sleeper pick
though, the New York Jets. As much as I hate it,
they always seem to be really good or really bad,
and Chad Pennington had the highest completion
% in the NFL last year. Add a rejuvenated Curtis
Martin and they have the potential to mix things up
a bit this year.

Henry--4

Wednesday

‘ M Soccer at Emory and :

' W Soccer vs. Hollins-—4:30

Mall

40,000 Square Feet
160+ Dealers

or apartment.

Sunday 11a.m.- 6 p.m.
(540) 464-5555

The Antique  

760 N. Lee Highway
College Square Shopping Center

Area's Largest Antique Mall, specializing in used
furnifureand “cool" accessories for1ina),‘,cooJ" house.--

There's something for everyone!
Monday—5aturday 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.

   
  

1 Invitational——4:30  l

: Mennonite--5230

Fnday
Volleyball at Emory

° Field Hockey at Eastern 

Want to write
about sports?
Join us at
THE RING-TUM PHI

wvvw.ststrave|.com.

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or

 
  

Energetic, Enthusiastic, & Motivated?

If you ﬁt these three categories call

MEMORIAL GARDENS

We have a full-time position for our sales
staff and one for a family service counselor.
Clafééiiiiiéludéé paid training and all
company beneﬁts apply.

Don’t wait, call today!

Sunday

I A, ' W Soccer at Chowan--1

ROCKBRIDGE

today at 

 

 

I_4O0KING FOR OPTIONS. Brian   8.5 he iOOkS t0 P2155. ThC YIICUS, SOCCCI team  of  upper-Classnlen tealnmates.

4 Bridgewater 1-1 on Saturday.

 - - SPGRTS

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

Dominating performance ends in
1-1 tie for mens’ soccer team

BY DIANA DOZIER
STAFF WIUTER

The mens’ soccer team tied Bridgewater this past Sat11r—

day l—1 in their second home match.

~ The beginning of the match began slowly for the Gener-

als, with the Eagles dominating posses-
sion for the first seven minutes of the
match. A shot from an Eaglesforward ap-
peared to be in the back of the net had the
Bridgewater fans on their feet.

However, senior captain Peter Miller
made a clutch defensive play, booting the
ball out. “With this save, Miller created a
spark that they needed, and the Generals
took possession of the game.

With thirteen minutes left in the first
half, senior midfielder Justin Mygatt
passed a beautiful through ball to fresh-
man Court Nexsen. Nexsen maneuvered
by an Eagle defender and then fmessed a
left footed shot past the goalkeeper.

As a freshman, Nexsen came into the
season “open for anything” and not even
sure if he would get any playing time.

respect for the upperclassmen,” he said, taking the oppor-

tunity to comment on the leadership.
The first half ended optimistically with the Generals

winning 1-0.

The second half produced much more fouling, rough

play, and questionable calls. Senior Brian Pirkle was given

 

COURTESY SPORTS INFORMATION
FRESHMAN COURT NEXSEN.

a yellow card with tliirty-eight minutes left in the second

half. Moments later, Bridgewater
scored a goal due to a goalkeeping
scoff in the goal box, bringing the game
to atie at 1-1.

Otherwise, the defense played
a solid game, allowing only 7 shots on
goal. On the other end of the ﬁeld the
Generals’ offense responded with more
than twice as many shots than the
Eagles. However, even
though W & L dominated much of the
possession throughout the game, the
end of regulation ended in a 1-1 tie,
sending the teams into double over-
time.

Even in extra minutes, the Gen-
erals continued to dominate, creating
multiple scoring opportunities, though
none resulted in a goal,

Scoring in both the Bridgewater game and the victory against
Southern Virginia, Nexsen accredited the goals to his hard
work over the summer and, of course, the skill and intensity

The Generals, view the game as a stepping stone, know-
ing that they have to work harder to accomplish their goal
of winning the ODAC conference and competing in the
NCAA tournament. They will travel to Emory and Henry

‘‘I have a lot of fun at practice and just have a world of this Wednesday in hopes of their first ODAC win.

T H I s P A s T W E E 14 ‘f P

W&L men finished second of 28
teams, while the women ﬁnished
ﬁfth of 22 teams.

Leading the way for the
men’s team, which was bested
only by Wesleyan University,
was junior Nathan Johnson (Lex-
ington, Va./Rockbridge County)
who placed fourth out of 242 mn-
ners with a time of 27: 15. Fresh-
man Tom Brewer (Syracuse,
N.Y./Christian Brothers Acad-
emy)fiz1ished 14th with a time of

27:50, while fellow classmate

Alex Mahoney {Winnetka Ill./
New ’I‘rier Academy) crossed the

” man’ Lindsay Erickson.

 

cape:n1s:hp1ac¢.(27:sVs)_ V V
Onthe womeifs side" ‘sh-~

Spring,Md./Stoiie[1‘j{iV£ig ,
the pace-setter’,  ‘ﬁf
out of 240 runners with a  o
20:84. Sophomoreiffigap V:
(Nashville, “i*c&:i:.7;#Iaxpe
placed,14th overall (20;44 . 
juniorlaetsy Frayer,.(<3ran " “ 
ids, Mich.lEast5:Graii§,.V V M '
ﬁnished 23rd with atirneof2.i:V£).E}.v
Washington  Iretums

  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  

action on Sat,V.Oc”t. 2,, A
hosts the Generais’ Invitatioglalig _
atl0:00am.  . 

 
 

4
Cross country
competes at N YU
‘ u 1
Invitational
\X/&L SPORTS RELEASE
A
NEW YORK, N.Y.-——The
Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams
were in action on Saturday as
‘ they competed in the New York
University Invitational at Van
Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. The
A.

« Buy

A

.Prizes provided by:

 

 
 
   
  

mat Q‘>’>.‘2f?~§)$.‘§l'I§l§  Maw}: amt! Wm Gmm: he '
elﬁay Asmlnissg 1?‘ IS. i"v./it t.ktI;1i§’s and 11:1! 2. . .
acd. vim} and the cﬂ-iiy logo are g '

your cex¢i.ooi.so.. eBay
and save up to 

  
   

G3

Anythinﬁ’:
points ﬂ

avg» we piizres fzrw rims: piopxilflt’ xc >;:Irra_xol<.~ on '<e¥£a;u:mn (hating Jzinuayy Etitlrl. with the liarxprice of (harm books. .   _’ 

- at §2~f.V.) gm PITT S.-'£ﬂJiM wit! coal; at W5‘? PM FD’? 9i3{}»*’1)4.   of V
totes. go M Wwozeliay,cxiimcxﬁlcggctuies * _

J miclumrirks of eBay inc. Designated trademarks and brands are the pmpetiy ofﬁxeir msyecﬁw owners}.

   

the list price.

as!‘
.9
.-=‘‘
v
.u-''''
..v’
.0-
4-‘
,1

-0"’
u

..
u-'
av"
1"‘
C‘ ’-‘

veﬁgzwimiess T

 

 

  

L
PAGE 8 MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 20, 2004
NwFshinit luditw d’ r nil kirt ‘
e a 0 saappa s ee ,jee spe c s s
BY EMILY EDWARDS Segal and Marc Jacobs actually know what they’re doing. So Poncho. For those of you who can pull this look off, I con— lg
ARTS AND LIFE ED1ToR get a tweed jacket, or two, or even go for a whole suit! The gratulate you. My jury is still out. UGG Australia offers a
jacket will look great with jeans, and the skirt will be cute with rather cute shearling poncho, but these other things look like
Fall is upon us. Labor day has come and gone, and soon, a couple of James Perse tees. If jackets are not your thing, go one of my knitting projects gone terribly wrong. In the words
the leaves will be changing into beautiful permutations of am- for a pair of cute Kate Spade slingbacks. They’ll definitely of my roommate, “You may as well just wear a garbage bag
ber, rust, and gold. spruce up that mini you’re dying to wear. around your shoulders.” If your heart desireth to wear said i
But enough of that cheesiness. Fall means new styles. poncho, please don’t overdo it- wear a pair of jeans and a
Ladies, for the love of God, we do not live in Palm Beach. If we Pencil Skirts. They’re not for the office anymore. J. Crew, solid-colored tee or sweater.
did, those marvelous Lilly Pulitzer sundresses would be more Banana Republic, most of W&L’s signature stores are selling *
than appropriate. Bu.t Lexington is a far cry from Palm Beach, them this fall. A word of warning... if you are pear-shaped, do So there you have it. Denim is still hot, with 7 for all -’
and it is after Labor Day. Please, do us all a gargantuan favor, your fellow students a favor and leave the skirt on the rack. Mankind facing some serious competition from Earnest Sewn
and delicately pack up your sundresses for the year. Easter Otherwise, you may find yourself and your Manolos lying and True Religion. Waistlines won’t be so low either— ‘
really isn’t that far away. For those of you who can simply not sprawled on the Colonnade. Recruitment’s Philanthropy night thanks designers for that
do without, Lilly offers a lovely Fall collection. Otherwise, one. This wouldn’t be a fashion column if I didn’t at least
pull out your long—sleeved Lacoste polos and keep on going. Juicy. Once a staple of West Coast wardrobes, these marvel- touch on accessories. Longchamp.com has mimicked Polo.com i
For those of you who, in absence of Lilly, need a little ous tracksuits should be in every .girl’s closet. Velour, ﬂeece, and now features a “Create your very own ‘Le Pliage’ Bag.” In
more fashion advice than the classic Alligator shirt, I have a terry... the styles and color choices are endless. They’re per— just four easy steps, you can personalize one of these classy
few ideas for you to consider (or not consider as it were). fect for the Sunday morning brunch gossip sessions, when Le Pliage bags, complete with your initials embossed on the
you’re ridiculously hung-over but still want to look decent. trademark bag ﬂap. You’ll just have to wait three weeks for L
'I\iveed. The word is synonymous with the House of Chanel, as Pair your tracksuit of choice with some Puma sneakers, and delivery.
my fellow fashion gurus will note. But for those of us plebe— your friends just may not remember how many cups of grain ‘Since this is my column and my section, I would just like to
ians who would rather not drop $3000 on a classic suit, tweed you really had last night. Juicy also offers cute miniskirts and add that Tennessee won and LSU lost on Saturday. God I love
has gone mainstream. Some stores, such as Hot Topic, have their corduroy trousers are perfect for the upcoming cold College Football!
butchered the once-classy look, but others, including Shelli weather. ' 1

’l’HE  PHi&

EMLYEDWARIJS
AKlS&l.lFEEDl’IOR

mm m

LIFE

The W&L Bookstore Presents...

Student Book of the

BY R03 ARMSTRONG
STAFF WRITER

ways stuck to his values and kept his word.”
Jarczyk remembered Parmenter for his “wry
sense of humor which dispelled discouragement

Washington and Lee, Sigma Nu honor Pannenter ,

    
 
 
 

 
     

   

   

  

  [Zach] stood strong and gave us all strength.” L
The Washington and Lee community assembled Jarczyk was studying in China when he re-
, Saturday evening at Robert E. Lee Chapel in memo— ceived the news of Parmenter’s death: “It was a
riam of Zachary Alan Parmenter. Anative of Ohio, phone call you hope never happens to you  I
When ESPN started broadcasting in September Parmenter was 3 rising felt Very’ Ve’Yb‘”°l’l‘°l-1 I “led .
1979, some people thought that a network de— lS(:’l‘l’l:‘d°l”r‘l°a’:al‘l:’lhcea“r :‘c:lgVe::  Smmg “t a t° Cope
voted to sports was a crazy idea. Twenty-five that occurred on July 27’ ' Bemle Campbell .05, amemlm
years later, those people can only marvel at what 2004, _ of Sigma Nu, was at a concert
has transpired, ESPN is the undisputed leader in The University’s acting when he noticed that he had it
Spar-1-5’ and 1-his quirky and informed-ﬁve book chaplain, William. “Burr” ;‘Il1SSCd'CallS frlom sexljerall of his
Ce'eb"°*e5*“"-"e*W°"‘<5°m°Z‘"9!°"d °*‘*e" §.“Sf;i’§fd‘?§e‘2$$.3‘;Z’;51:? i§3§Zi“ifZg’L‘f f.f3;h.§’i‘li.“§§.I.e‘3
. . . l l " 9
    G l   ebratlon of the llfe of Zach one who knew what had hap_
classic Sportscenter commercials! The perfect Pa;memer,”who wammem- pened. Campbell said, “I don’t «‘
gift for any sports fan, including yourself. bered. among other things. remember much of that phone call,
for his “hospitable humor but when I got off the phone, I
- . - . and genuine interest in oth— was sitting on the ground.”
Regular price. $25.00 This week. _$20.00 mg, Both Campbell and Jarczyk A
Speakers read from the H spoke of the “struggle” to cope
Old and New Testaments as With their friend’s death.
well as giving personal Campbell believes that
$p%' statements, As a freshman, Parmenter’s death at a young age ll
I 1  I Parmenter became actively “reminds us of the fragility of life
i i  , H _ gag involved in General Chris—  but we must trust in God’s eter-
V " "  " I  tian Fellowship, Kierstin L, nal wisdom, that his reasons are
25 MlNIl~BE8B§N8 £Y£~?ﬂP?ll'il8 Schmidt ’05 described right and good.”
Parmenter as a person who Sigma Nu member Geoffrey J. ;_

Ctll3't3RE~MﬂRPH!N5 Y ABS 8!‘ HI-5HLiEH1'S
A , i ’ I .  =  Corey Harmon ’05, led theSigma
Nu Funeral Rite before the
service’s end. Campbell de—
scribed the ritual as “a sign of
commitment and collective grief as a brotherhood.” ‘
Parmenter was born on March 28, 1984. He is sur-
vived by one sister and his parents, Jan and Robert

Parmenter, who were in attendance and accompanied

if

  

“really did live out his
faith,” and someone who
was “thirsty for the word of
God.”

Among the crowd were the members of the Sigma
Nu fraternity, which Parmenter had joined during his
freshman year. One of his fraternity brothers, Adam
Jarczyk ’06, said the brotherhood “always described

  

     

        

 
  
 

       

Zach as a solid guy  [He] was like a rock. He al- by President B11riSh- A
VVhat 0 Id 0 like to see
0 O ‘W O O K
in Life . Email suggestions .
I h'@ 1 d “
to p 1 W u.e u ,
l
A
'%"Ir*Iir%i‘h§i§I'II'Iiz‘Ir¥"h'§i'i'5$."I‘W'I‘§'B'i%‘E¥$‘hI'i'§'k'k$'iIi5§§¥'l?h§$5'h'E$z'¥¥i$¥$$'B¥‘§ f
’ ' V '- *3‘  ' V t. .
     4  .. ,. If .. l
nutoeenter ’“t““”““““‘”‘“  
   “W Orjamaoﬁraiuefaurﬁii lf9UG*lNEr!ITBiﬁm' -ll
" aimsmsammmraanmmmmmammmmmmmm "!""ef!lW*5ﬁ#$l'f”*l °*e°lggﬁ*lfl*‘W
¥ﬁﬁ%H$»he£Im$ u %lUlW%W8  l‘
as my mum.  .  ~8ewM-%r7Dewe ' _ A ’ “M L
_ ,  . i  . .. . _ -oaeyHut— awiiimt-mi
ammo uuimia-miuismmwmuuumnniai, Mmlwﬂﬁpmmllmlm
G» ‘W511?!  ﬁt “NEE lﬁﬂ. it F8!!!‘ 0  f  «Ir l
asunamna run an new. :11 4» emcmirmn «is , ﬁewcemimeeswemwwew ’
i ‘ lug  " " " jg[;.$§ﬁ_j{ MET 0  *,".lﬂI|lilI'" W”,  Onktﬂxeakﬁa 24HouxaaD:y,$eVcndaysa1voek!
gggmgs   ; iiiniwtmmumniior ;; ‘mail,  W 3,; al 4 .,
Q  O ’” "  .  " "* ' '.'.!‘ ..“' I 5 V LEEBITRAVEL PLAZA
 “T8 VH5‘ 335- 5“  H !»&t!aIsI«64,kx:'r195,£1£2iomaz..xxnwY,im1oN,vA
:BlueBaitge mile center . 549-463-3478   ,
1/ 1‘!3l‘§iiVtlvaﬁsfiiﬂiiﬁ-ﬂtlitfaike »l¥I‘i%t3'a Vista. on ¥.i4’H]~i2l3"!~-93}'7 , , .3,,,,,:,,,,,,,‘,,,,,,.,m,,,,,,
2its-is-ism.-si-5.1.-iii-sin.-wasas-5-is-mu.1.55-kmnsmaiaissmqiasatmmmmaemaiasisisissnsassissmaasaesau» " Aneﬂius Feed We 8:11?! Tove!

X.

PAGE 9

 Piilg

LIFE

EM1LYED\vARos

A1ns&LIEEEDnoR _ _

mm m

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

Music and Politics: Can they ever really go together ‘.7

BY BLAIR CRUNK
STAFF WRITER

October 1, 2004 will bring the kick-off of the
Vote For Change Tour, “a loose coalition of mu-
sicians brought together by a single idea—the
need to make a change in the direction of this
country.” Musicians including Bruce
Springsteen, John Mellencamp, the Dixie Chicks,
Dave Matthews Band, Pearl Jam, and R.E.M.
(among others) will be traveling around the coun-
try making stops in several “battleground
states” for the 2004 Presidential Election such
as Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio, and Florida.
According to Dave Matthews, “A vote for
change is a vote for a stronger, safer, healthier
America. A vote for Bush is a vote for a divided,
unstable, paranoid America. It is our duty to this
beautiful land to let our voices be heard. That’s
the reason for the tour. That’s why I’m doing it.”
As one can imagine, this mixing of politics and
music is earning both strong praise and great
disapproval from citizens across the country —
and also from several musicians not involved
with the tour.

Two of these musicians opposed to the tour,
shock rocker Alice Cooper (Alice in Chains) and
singer/songwriter Paul Westerberg are speak-
ing out against the Vote For Change Tour. “To
me, that’s treason,” Cooper said. “I call it trea-
son against rock ‘n’ roll because rock is the an-

tithesis of politics.” Cooper went on to say
that “if you’re listening to a rock star in order
to get your information on who to vote for,
you’re a bigger moron than they are. Why are
we rock stars? Because we’re morons. We sleep
all day, we play music at night and very rarely
do we sit around reading the Washington Jour-
nal.” Westerberg agrees saying that “it’s oil
and water when rock ‘n’ roll mixes with poli-
tics. To me it’s just wrong.”

Before I proceed any further, it should be
noted that I am in no way trying to promote
John Kerry’s presidential campaign. I am sim-
ply a proponent of the upcoming tour for
music’s sake. With that said, let me give my
reasoning as to why the upcoming Vote for
Change tour is not a stupid, even politically
incorrect thing.

Why are Bruce Springsteen, the Dixie
Chicks, John Mellencamp, the Dave Matthews
Band, and others going out on this tour? For a
cause...am I right? This particular cause is to
raise awareness for a change in this country,
namely electing John Kerry as the next United
States President. Now, let’s look at things in a
different light. Each year, a group of artists
(including VVrllie Nelson, Neil Young, and John
Mellencamp, among others) get together for a
benefit concert with Farm Aid. You may have
heard of it. Farm Aid “works to keep family
farmers on the land,” according to the

organization’s website. In other words, Farm
Aid’s goal is to ﬁght bad farm policy and help
family farmers keep their jobs instead of having
their land taken over by commercial, money-hun-
gry developers. This benefit concert takes all
the proceeds from the concert (tickets, merchan-
dise, etc.) and puts it towards Farm Aid’s cause.

Now, ask yourself this question. What do
the Vote For Change Tour and the Farm Aid ben-
efit concert have in common? They each pro-
vide performing artists who are passionate about
a single cause. To me, passion is what drives
music. Music without passion is like a car with
out an engine. It just doesn’t work! What do
people sing about? Toby Keith sings about
being an “angry American” and “putting a boot
in” Osama Bin Laden’s [expletive deleted]. He’s
entitled to that idea. He’s passionate about it.
In the same light, John Mellencamp sings that
“it’s worse now since he came / From Texas to
Washington.” He is, of course, talking about
President George W. Bush. Mellencamp is en-
titled to that opinion. He’s passionate about it.
Although I disagree with Mellencamp’s stance, I
appreciate the fact that he is singing with passion,
with power, and for a purpose in which he believes.

Whether the cause is for cancer or to raise
drug awareness, for farmers or a presidential elec-
tion, I say to the artists with great passion for
whatever platform may arise — follow your heart
and play your music to benefit what you be-

lieve in. After all, isn’t that what this great coun-
try is all about? You may say that you don’t
think these artists should be using their profes-
sion to inﬂuence people’s votes. You may say
that their job is to play music, just like my job is
to be a W&L student. A strong difference exists
there, however, because musicians are involved
in a very unique profession. Not every job can
reach hundreds, thousands, oftentimes mi ions
of people each year like musicians can. hese
artists have the special opportunity t reach
people through studio release albums and live
concerts. With that opportunity comes an im-
portant chance for these artists to stand up for
their beliefs, ignite their passion, and follow
through with it in their music.

The point here is that the musicians in-
volved with the Vote For Change Tour are, by no
means, overstepping their boundaries. It’s not
like James Taylor, Jackson Browne, and Ben
Harper (among others) are going to Wisconsin,
Missouri, and the other “battleground states”
giving speeches or hosting political rallies.
They’re not even going to change the lyrics in
their songs to promote John Kerry for the presi-
dency. That would be silly.

All they are doing is playing music. And they
are playing it for a purpose.

For more information on the Vote For
Change Tour, visit http://www.moveonpac.org/
vfc.

International Film Festival leaves Texas to entertain Washington and Lee

BY VICTORIA CHILDRESS
STAFF WRITER

The international WorldFest festival has left its native
Houston, Tex., for the first time and come to Lexington. Nine
full—length movies and eight short films played over the course

of the weekend in the Commons Theater.

Over 100 movies were played and judged in Houston, and
festival founder J. Hunter Todd emphasized that the 17 se-

lected for W&L were the cream of the crop.

He has written, directed, produced, or filmed over 300 short
and full—length films and won more than 115 international

awards.

Started in 1961, WorldFest is the third oldest indepen-

nity to meet ten directors and writers. WorldFest held a
barbecue on Sept. 17 and a directors’ brunch on Sept.

18.

an identical twin himself.

It was taped in Toronto during the SARS outbreak,
and the film crew had to go through quarantine before
they could start working on the movie.

At the brunch, Jordan Barker spoke about “My
Brother’s Keeper,” an inspirational tale about identical
twin brothers who want to win the world rowing cham-
pionships. Barker, who wrote and directed the film, is

chronicles all the Apollo missions.
Will Townes ’07 named “For All Mankind” as his favorite

WorldFest selection. “The director didn’t insert anything — it was

the actual footage the astronauts took. It really gave it to you
without any biases.”

Townes also enjoyed the short ﬁlm “Does God Play Football?”,
by British director Mike Walker. This is the touching story of an

Irish boy who does not have a father, so he assumes that he must

They also had only four days to film all

the rowing scenes. “If it had rained, we

The theme of WorldFest

be the son of God.
‘The little boy was so full of life,” Townes said.

Other selections included “The Affair,” a story of
one woman’s self—exploration by Belgian director
Carl-J an Copacrt.

would have been screwed,” Barker re-
marked.

dent film festival in the US. It has given a start to many promi-
nent writers and directors, including Ang Lee, Ridley Scott,

William Amtz, Betsy Chasse, and Mark Vicente

is a good story well told
co-directed the documentary “What the #$*! Do

Oliver Stone, and the Cohen brothers. Stephen Spielberg’s .Aaron Ashmore portrayed both broth- -LHUI IIERTODD We Kiiow?”, in which a Greek chorus of scientists
‘( Amblin Entertainment company is named after his short film ers. His real-life twin, Shawn, played the IVORIDFEYTFOMVDER guides a woman on a journey through quantum

which was spotted by a talent scout at WorldFest.
W&L alumnus John Dean organized and sponsoredrthe
event. After making his first movie at age six, he is now head
,4 of Magic Lantern Entertainment.

“My focus for the entire event is on the students,” he
said at the start of the festival. “I want them to learn about
film, have a great time, and enjoy this art. Film really is the art
form of the 20th century.”

4- The Student Affairs Office co-sponsored the event.
Wes Jarrell, a first—year law student, was excited about at-
tending WorldFest. “I’ve not been to a film festival here, but
I went to the Black Maria Film Festival at my undergrad school
A. several years,” he said. “That’s the only one that tours the
US and actually ends up at Sundance. So I’m hoping to get
the same kind of cultural experience out of this.”
In addition to watching independent movies that normally
would not come to theaters, students also had the opportu-

twin double, and has also appeared as Ice-
nrairin the*“X-Men” movies. ’

Ersi Danou talked about her film, “A Sea Apart.”
This movie deals with the parallel stories of two women,
one in Greece, and the other a Greek immigrant in the
US. Both are trying to find love and a place to belong.
“It’s a very personal story about nostalgia and how life
takes you different places,” Danou said.

“I can relate to the strained relationship between
the main characters,” said Yvonne Coker ’08, “and to
the cultural differences, because both my parents are
from Sierra Leone. I thought it was wonderful, very
refreshing.”

Although it was released in theaters several years
ago, the classic “Apollo 13” played on Saturday night,
and writer Al Reinert attended the festival. Friday night
featured his documentary “For All Mankind,” which

physics.
“Bache1orMan,” directed by John Putch, was a
romantic comedy about a ladies man who finally falls in love.
“Miss Cast Away” made fun of all things Hollywood while
showing a group of beauty queens who crash on a deserted island.
It featured cameos by Evan Marriott and Michael Jackson as “Agent
MJ.”

The festival closed with “The Shadow of the Blade,” a docu-
mentary about a restored Vietnam War helicopter that recently ﬂew
to 42 Landing Zones across the country while carrying the soldiers
who served on it during the war.

“The theme of WorldFest is a good story well told,” said Todd.
“We’re very delighted to bring you this ‘best of the fest’ selec-
tion.”

Charlie Clarke '05 summed up WorldFest’s general effect. “I
was duly impressed by the international ﬂavor that came to such a
small place as Lexington.”

 

   

 
  
 

.4
- I
‘iﬂl€Si0n€ ‘Dance Studio BO DY PUMP
n M 10 South Randolph Street - Lexington, VA 24450 _
WWW-haleswne-Com New Fall Classes New Forming
Yoga & Dance Condrtlonmg Aerobics - Yoga - Cycles - Weights
A Promoting Personal Discovery Through
the Body-Mind in Movement . V
(540) 463-1444 ® 
"”‘"""' ‘rm is
4 . ROCKBRIDGE
¢ Summit Sq. Shopping Ctr, 146 Walker St, Lexington
  464-YMCA
  4      - A
E PHYS Ice 1'. Tr-1r;1ULPY R r     -  
E. (:r.'IF‘£.” ’wr'i.ir.la;;n&: in mind  I I  j I   I I I ‘ 
453-5533   T . Vi/6/('0/776 §f//&?/7¢8./ .
';jl,iST{-il'r,::r=ll'IlT.rE:£'l.-I’!l:Ir':;’ S     I i 1».  E . /sts ,~,,
a I1£1,i,"bDn,1lr'.»3l V . ’
A . .  . , ._...;. F 1 We invite you to take C3/700tS
lLnlic;p. Sr,,..ru.r-ﬁ'.Ir..rj:11'|1l,!=--e-- , _ A _ A g _ _ _ _
I ’ n _ 3:. 1- V . . . C1 WCllk.dOWn. Lexm ton, Vrrgrnra
'- *°F"°"’*""’  ‘ '5 Washington Street-and ~ 9
_ meet some _
j ' §i;,s.'-c;aliz§.ng in: & I I A, lOC0l Q54»?-w4fcr4rtEts1:r:cohoots.com
 L wa:r:l.f3?.:°;::',?l‘;.n- 
« - ‘ Eninai Ereussrmaqrr  . '   t         ’      
I F'osa-fill" n_=|I3l-Iilimtiﬂll I I   P4//rzf//gs - Wood Cary//gs - P//ofogm/2/rs - Poffery
. . .   V : ﬁn/rd?/df/fed]? e//' - /45$
« F.!'IEr'.1:5?n'1£?iT3:{€Ir,3‘f€-},st.ily£I:i3pEd}£"ﬂ’iFf1'«5‘i1I§f¥‘¢313?’{35H§" F 74¢ / ted, ;_  J? . ﬁ
* ,.,,,,,.,..,,.;-.m wigs: ..-no .g;='a;£«rr!‘orrr y-arr .n'r«:4_r-' am-:-. carmmrrrrzs-arm /3 4 0 _ 4” 5*/”.4 0”
:reanr.renr, U")-"1-'¥'ilr“g'-(~",1§‘,‘,',,gf‘-‘f]7',I,’,'.';,‘,!”, E in - . ~ — ‘
X.

 

’ been rewarded with a good

PAGE 10

THE

  
 

int: Rri\rc~’itM Pill

AST ORD

     
  

EMILYFJDWARIXS
AKIS&LlFEEDl'IOR

mm m

MONDAY, SEIYIEMBER 20, 2004

Potato Man oﬁers insight into typical ﬁuttasitic weekend

I think nearly every independent emailed a letter in response to
my first article. I just want to say thank you for being the first group
of people that I pissed off. It really is an honor that not only people
read what I write but that some people actually take me serious.

You took time out of your day to tell me that I was an idiot or
didn’t know what I was talking about. That is time of your life that
you will never get back, and it was wasted on being

8:00 pm — The party doesn’t start for another hour, but a few
freshmen are already at the house. They want to make sure they get
in at least 2 hours of partying, before they have to be home at 10.
Why most the freshmen go home before midnight is a question that
may never be answered, but deﬁnitely needs to be changed.

9:00 pm — The kids that came at 8 left half an hour ago because

“this party sucked.” But now that the party is

mad at me, a sophomore who writes this article every POTATO MAN supposed to get started people slowly start to
week out of boredom and to make my resume longer fill in, but it’s just a big sausage party.
than one line, MARSHALL RULE 9:30 pm —— The girls come over in large

The reason those of you who wrote letters had
time to take out of your day, was that you have little to do socially.
Now before I get a lot more irate emails, I shall clarify I am talking
about the independent male population. Independent girls go out
and have just as much fun as the srat girls. Meanwhile (most, not all)
the guys sit in their dorm rooms in Gaines all day; while we “frat
boys” are spending our time making sure that the rest of the school
has a place to enjoy a few choice beverages and social activity.

So, to show the rest of the school how 79% of the guys at this
school spend their time, I have developed a timeline of the typical
weekend.

4200 pm — After a full day of classes it’s ﬁnally time to meet at
the party house to party proof it from the belligerent drunks.

5:30 pm — Dinner time, where we make sure to load up on Carbs
and water. After dinner it’s a quick shower and a little bit of down-
time, mostly for spreading the word to all the friends.

herds, all with their pearls and heels on and for
the most part stay together, that is except for the one girl wearing a
shirt that covers slightly more than an eye patch would. She is
surrounded by 12 guys at the beer pong table who could not tell you
what color her eyes were.

10:00 pm. —— The freshman guy in the comer is desperately
trying to impress everybody around him by proving that one time in
high school he drank 8 shots in a half hour and didn’t even feel it.

10:20 pm. — The freshman guy has passed out after ﬁnish-
ing only 3 shots. Guess he had more tolerance in high school.
Or he was lying. . . .. no that can’t be, freshmen don’t exaggerate
at all.

11:00 pm. — Word gets around that someone went to the
infirmary. It took two hours, must be a slow night.

11:30 pm — The three kegs are already kicked. No one can
understand how we went through that much beer in 2 and half

Tradition transcends generations

BY JEB BROOKS
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

This place has many time
honored traditions. We should
not seek change on a whim. In-
stead, we must continue to cel-
ebrate the rich history our uni-
versity bestows upon its cho-
sen few. There are some tradi-
tions that have long lost mean-
ing, others that are hilarious and
could never have had purpose
and others that must never be
forgotten. Above all, each must
be revered.

There are the little quirks
we tend to forget after our fresh-
man year, such as walking
through the side columns of the
Graham Lee breezeway. Many
a superstitious student has

grade after carefully choosing
that well worn path. Make an
effort to pass through the
proven test of time.

My favorite tradition is that
of gentlemanly conduct. We, at
Washington and Lee, behave in
a respectful manner to everyone

V H JEB BRO0 / The Ring-tum P/21'
DoN’T WALK STRAIGHT. One of the first traditions freshmen are taught is not to walk through the center of the
entrance to Graham—Lees. If you were to walk through the center of the columns, it is said that you will fail the
first test, or class, or paper at Washington and Lee.

we meet. We help little old la-
dies cross streets, we say “yes
ma’am” and “no sir” not be-
cause someone makes us, but
because it is the right thing to
do. At Washington and Lee, we
have our one rule and it is a good

‘ one. Thanks President Lee, you

did us right when you gave us
that simple instruction.

All that good behavior
doesn’t mean we are fun vacu-
ums. We have our share of
risqué traditions. Streaking the
colonnade is an experience
many can claim. Perhaps one
of the most treacherous of our
traditions, it is also the most in-

vigorating (from what I hear).
Should you decide to make this
run of shame, recall that certain
professors choose to keep non-
traditional office hours.

For you lovers of the out-
doors, don’t forget to climb
House Mountain. This ﬁnal (but
unrequired) phys. ed. activity
will surely excite you. How
tragic would it be to graduate
from Washington and Lee with-
out taking full advantage of the
unbelievably beautiful sur-
rounding country? The Com-
monwealth of Virginia has so
much to offer, take a look around.

Some say that one of our

greatest traditions is slipping
slowly away from us. I know
this is not an earth shattering
realization; someone writes
about it every year. But it really
is terrible when we choose not
to SPEAK!

And so, let me step onto
my soapbox: Do not dare look
away from me when I say,
“hello.” Respond. Frankly, my
friends, I don’t care if both par-
ties are on cell phones, listen-
ing to iPods or are too timid to
look a shadow in the eye. At
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, we are a community. Act
like it. Is it really all that difﬁ—

cult to say, “hello,” “’sup” or
“how’s it hangin”’ ?

And then there’s the
granddaddy of them all: Honor.
This tradition is by far our most
venerated. A Washington and
Lee graduate of 50 or 75 years
ago knows that he shares the
deepest possible sense of
honor with any member of the
class of 2008. This onnection
is what makes our institution
one of the greatest.

Washington and Lee’s time
honored traditions are what
make this place what it is. Re-
spect them and foster them.

hours, until we look at all the wounded soldiers left throughout the
house and the kid that just walked outside with two full beers from
beer pong, but comes back in with two empty cups. Must be a hardcore
drinker. He should become friends with the kid that passed out at
10:20.

11:45 pm —— The dance ﬂoor is the place to be. The trashy
girl is surrounded by the same 12 guys dancing and there are 2
couples pretty much making babies to the Ruff Ryders Anthem
by DMX.

Midnight — Bed time for the freshmen. They stumble out the
door in groups down the middle of the street. Now it’s time for
the party to get fun.

1:30 am — The frosh passed out in the corner wakes up and
asks what happened... we tell him that he not only did the 8
shots in half an hour, but also hit the beer bong twice, and it was
glorious. He regains his pride and pukes in his comer before
heading back to his top bunk in the dorms.

3:00 am — Someone gets hungry and there is a mass exodus to
Wafﬂe House, where the waitress and truckers stare at all of us
rich snobs. They’ll get the last laugh when the cooks spit in our
hash browns. We see it happen, but what the hell, we’re at WaHo,
it’s part of the experience.

4200 am — We all find out a nice place to pass out for the next
twelve hours when we’ll get up and do it all over again.

All the while in Gaines, the independents have gotten to-
gether to write a letter to the phi to respond to this article.

Second City entertains
W&L audience, kicks off
General Comedy Series

BY CALEY ANDERSON
OPINIONS EDITOR

Second City, the Chicago-based improve and sketch
comedy troupe, made its usual stop in Lexington this past
Wednesday, putting on a two and a half hour performance
before a packed house in the Lenfest Center. Though Sec-
ond City performed as a part of its regular tour, the event
was locally put on by the new Generals Activity Board,
the reincarnated S.A.B. of years past.

Second City’s routine includes sketch comedy and
completely inprovised scenes. Audience suggestions and
participation are encouraged. Wednesday—night audience
participation resulted in a sketch routine about the ‘‘walk
of shame” and a suggestion to act out “horniness”.

M Director of Student Activities Todd Tate, Assistant
Director Kristen Powell and General s Activity Board Presi-
dent Lauren Peters introduced Second City.

Second City’s performance kicks off the General Com-
edy Series to be held on Wednesdays at 8 p.m. during the fall
term. The series, held at the Marketplace in the John W. Elrod
University Commons, begins Sept. 22.

Second City is always a much-anticipated event at the
start of the year, and a natural fit with the many events put
on during freshman orientation and the first few weeks of
the school year. The troupe will likely make another stop
at Washington & Lee in September of 2005.

This year, the comedy troupe was celebrating its 45"‘
anniversary, and so their performance was composed of
old favorite sketches from their near half-century history,
as well as some favorite improvisational games. And, as is
tradition for Second City, intermission was announced by
the proclamation “It’s now intermission, so
go. . . . .intermish.”

Audience participation was very enthusiastic, and the
audience as a whole did seem very entertained by the six-
actor cast, certainly no rare sight for Second City’s mem-
bers.

Alumni of The Second City include Alan Arkin, Joan
Rivers, Robert Klein, Fred Willard, John Belushi, Dan
Aykroyd, Gilda Radner, Martin Short, John Candy, Betty
Thomas, Bill Murray, George Wendt, Chris Farley, Mike Kyers
and Ryan Stiles. V

U!

 

Honor Violation.

TS

Q Wearing a fake, 3 button Lacoste should be an

Q Congratulations to the football team on
beating Sewanee.

Q What’s with the list of churchgoers in

Campus Notices? Do we have to know someone
to get past the bouncer?

Q Phi Kap won Saturday night.

Q Freshmen girls: being hot doesn’t
automaically make you cool.

Q Hell Yeah! Inﬂatable alcohol sounds like a

good idea— no hangover? I’m all for it!

Q Professors Cumming and de Maria, The

- I : cutest couple on campus

Q Can’t touch this.

Q If you haven’t seen the hall decorations on
the second ﬂoor of Graham-Lees, dumpster side,

shy.

Q What sort of lifestyle would a human need to

lead in order to keep the length of one’s toenails
in check without clipping them? and if any of
' you geniuses can think of an answer, I’d love to

hear it

Q To the guy wearing the University of
Michigan hat...do you realize your forehead

reads, “UM”?

Q Yay! McDonald’s is open 24/7!

take a look. The signs are not for the sexually

Q Does anyone in the country actually like
John Kerry? Every democrat calls him “the
lesser of two evils” Way to nominate a

presidential candidate.

that 80s band

Q -Meet the Greeks needs to ﬁnd a new
location. I couldn’t hear anything because of

Q FYI, AK 47 is also a type of marijuana

Q Yesterday was International Talk Like a Pirate Q CONTACT rocks my world

Day— Yo ho ho!

Q Women's day? I propose a men’s day. How

about Wednesday?

Q Way to go phi on bringing back Talkbacks.

It’s the coolest feature ever!

Q Whoever said that Ashlee Simpson is a

Q Go out and burn down your enemies’ houses;
according to Eddie V, “Toleration is a lie.”

Q Every guy should have an engagement ring
fund.

Q Did you go to the International Film Festival
this weekend? You should have. It was excellent

better singer than her sister is an idiot.

Q Zollman’s lost hardcore Saturday night :*(

Q Online poker is the stupidest thing ever.

Only the biggest dorks play it.

Q High—school students beware: Today is Upton
Sinclair day.

Q To whoever has wet towels in Woods Creek,

why don’t you try hanging them up?

Q Happy Birthday to Sophia Loren, who turns
70 today. Eat a plate of spaghetti in her honor.

Q What do I have to do to get a day named after
me. Write a book about how to mass produce
sausage in great detail.

Q I wish I were a Cameroonian princess too.

Q The Cosby Show is 20 years old today. The

Huxtables are a timeless TV family.

Q Kah - The managing editor of the phi doesn’t
have to do the arranged marriage thing either.

Q True story: during a class discussion about

Glasgow, Professor Cimiming proclaims “gettin’

down in G-town”

Q From freshman girl: I love you Pete Miller.

Q I love Burger King

    

Q The Phi would like to ask the coop again to
please open at noon on Sundays. We get hungry
too. ‘ ~

Q Email your anonymous quick hits to i\..
phi@wlu.edu

