 
 

SMALL-TALK. Current students mingle with
alums duringa briefsunny  this weekend

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
I=RODUcTION DIRECTOR

Throughout the weekend, alumni
reminisced about what makes this school
the W&L we all know and love.

Torn Wall, Paul Maslansky, George
Young, Ray Bee, Steve Sloan, and Gor-
don Taylor, all members of the class of
’54, were reliving their days at W&L at
the lunch on the front lawn Friday.
Maslansky immediately noticed the loss
of the speaking tradition. He said that the

‘ . campus was still friendly, but we do not

have what they used to have in the tradi-
tion. He believes that the greatest addi-
tion to W&L besides the Elrod Commons,
is the Lenfest Center. It provides far more
cultural options to the student body than
the campus did 50 years ago.

These six members of the class of
’54 went on to talk about life at W&L 50
years ago. The president of the university
was not visible, but was highly respected
by every student. Young’s daughter at-
tended Rhodes College and came to W&L
for a ﬁeld hockey game. He was very im-
pressed with the athletic ﬁelds on carn-
pus. All ﬁve spoke of the new buildings
on campus. “You can see where the money
has gone,” said Maslansky.

Young, Sloan, and Maslansky were
members of a six—piece band that played
all four years at W&L, Sweet Briar, and
Hollins. All three said their best memo-
ries were of playing in this band. They
agreed to play at UVA one weekend. It
was the craziest party they had ever
played. One of the band members had his
head cracked open with a bottle by one
of the people in the audience. Never again
did they agree to play at UVA.

Sloan was an English major and
wrote movie reviews for the Phi. He went
to see movies at both of Lexington’s
movie theatres, the State and the Arm-
pit. He started the Washington and Lee
Literary Society. One of the society’s
many members was Tom Wolfe.

Tin Itniient noiie of Was/nngton nnd Ln Uninmigy since 7897

VMI relations were no better then.
During the 1950s, W&L guys had a tra-
dition called “late dating.” The VMI
guys had curfews around 10 p.m. After
the VMI guys went back to their bar-
racks, their girlfriends would come to
W&L and late-date the guys here. On
Sunday mornings, the Betas would
throw empty beer cans at the VMI guys
marching through town.

John Lackey, George Spaulding,
and Bruce Chosney ‘64, said that girls
and race are the two biggest differences
on campus today. They were at W&L in
the midst of the Civil Rights movement.
Their junior year, the frontrunner for EC
president ran on a segregationist plat-
form and was defeated in an upset. Dur-
ing their four years on campus, the foot-
ball team never lost a home game and
was even undefeated one season.

“The more they improve the school,
the more things stay the same,” said Price
Blackford ’73. BlackfordcarnetoW&L dur-
ing the Vietnam War. The campus culture
changed somewhat during this period. His
freshman year, students were still wearing a
coat and tie to class, but by the time he
graduated, that traditionhadendedln 1973,
about 16 girls attended W&L through an
exchange program. Blackford said that the
campus seems far more beautiful now. He
encouraged students to take advantage of
all W&L offers because he wishes now that
he could go back and do more things.

PHI

CV77
VOLUME CVIII, No. 2
MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004

==:Alumn1 weekend in focus, reunion rememberances

STEVEN MARINOS / T/re Ring-tum P121"

IN THE BANK. President Burish receives the Class of l954’s record-setting donation.

Henry Hamilton and Ed Peterson,
both members of the class of ’79, believe
that what makes W&L special is still here.
During their time, downtown Lexington was
renovated, the law school and the library
were built, and Elizabeth Taylor came to
campus. Peterson said one of his best memo-
ries of W&L is living in a country house for
a year where they had to kill mice with
hockey sticks. Both were members of fra-
ternities and said that they didn’t have the

legal problems we have today in our Greek
system such as a legal drinking age of 21.
Lexington was living in the past
this weekend. The alumni had a great
time talking about their college days.
They were pleased to see that the same
traits that made W&L great 50 years ago
— the honor system, the close-knit com-
munity, the fraternities, and the out-
standing faculty — were still driving the
mission of Washington and Lee today.

Hammer falls on Beta with year suspension

BY ERIN JULIUS
MANAGING EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Big Four
fraternities lost one of their own this
past week, when the Student Affairs
Committee ratiﬁed the Inter—FraterrIity
Councils’s recommendation that Beta
Theta Pi be kicked "off campus for a
year.

“Beta will not be on campus next
year,” said IFC Advisor Matt Jacobs.

“I’m disappointed in the trial pro-
cess,” said former Beta President Seth
Martin, “I don’t think it was fair.”

“SAC found reasonable evi-
dence to support the numerous viola-
tions of the University’s policy on haz-
ing, and wholeheartedly adopts IFC’s
recommendations as affirmed by the
University Board of Appeals,” said
Jacobs.

The IFC recommended that the
chapter be suspended to the upcoming
academic year and that all chapter ac-
tivity for the current year be suspended,
Jacobs said. The brothers will be al-

N ew adininzrinafonr

/ninen’ inﬁll opening;

BY ERIN JULIUS
MANAGING EDITOR

Three new faces will guide student life
next year. Buddy Atkins, Acting Director of
the Commons is moving to a position in the
development ofﬁce, leaving his position open.
Teresa Glassinan, Director of Student Activi-
ties and Greek Life and Matt Jacobs, IFC Advi-
sor are also leaving their respective positions.

The search is on to find Atkins’ replace-
ment. Thetsearch committee is made up of six
members from the student body, faculty and
staff. Thomas Worthy, ‘O5 and Katie
Henderson,’05, James Dick, Professor Julie
Woodzicka and Dean David Leonard comprised
the search committee.

Atkins’ replacement, “will be responsible
for the Commons as well as the entire Campus
Activities area which is responsible for Stu-
dent Activities, Greek Life, Outing Cub and
Campus recreation and leadership programs,”
said Dean Dawn Watkins.

Jacobs’ position is being slightly restruc-
tured because, “Matt actually does more than
just advise the IFC,” said Watkins. The title is
being changed to Assistant Director of Stu-
dent Activities and Greek Life.

., "i “I think for the student activities job, or-

’; ganization and an understanding of university
and Greek national policies and their relation-
ship to the students are going to be the most
important things,” said past Panhel President
Mary Butler Stone.

 

    
    

~ TIMER / Te Ring—t14 Pn;

lowed to live in the house for the rest of
this year, but it will be closed next year.

Martin said he did not think new
member education was worse this year
than it was in the past.

“One thing that I question--the
fact that they never investigated any-
thing,” said Martin, “not once talked
to any of the freshmen, the new mem-
bers. They only spoke to me, one of ‘
about 40 people.”

said.

port that,” said Martin.

Martin said.

Statements made by Beta broth-
ers were also misinterpreted, said Mar-
tin, “we were rarely, if ever, asked ques-
tions by the judicial committees,” he

Beta does have the opportunity
to appeal, in writing, to President Burish
regarding the SAC’s decision.

' According to the Student hand-
book, the appeal would not constitute
I a rehearing of the case, but the Presi-
dent has the option of either rejecting
the appeal or sending the case back to
the SAC for reconsideration. The SAC
handed down this decision last Sun-
day, so Beta has 10 days to appeal.
Wednesday, May 5 will be the last day
an appeal could be made.

“My understanding is that the I
alumni want to appeal, and if they
choose to do so, the chapter will sup-

Dean Watkins, the chair of the
SAC, recused herselffrom this decision.

After the suspension period is
over, “we f11lly intend to come back,”

A MOVING LANDMARK

history while making way for a high—tech art and music facility next to the Lenfest Center.

Judy Shepard, alumni deliver talks

JEB BROOKS / T/ye ng-tum b
SPEAKING OUT. Shepard addressed a packed house April
27 with the story of her son.

L BY ANNE FINLEY
. AssT. OPINIONS EDITOR

“I’m not a professional speaker,” Judy
Shepard said last Tuesday evening in the Com-

.mons Theater. “I’m a mom. I’m a mom with a story,

and opinions; my story, my opinions.”

Shepard’s son, 21-year old Matthew, an
openly-gay student at the University of Wyo-
ming, was lured from a bar in Laramie, Wyoming,
on October 7, 1998, by two men claiming to be
gay- '

He was then driven into a secluded loca-
tion, brutally beaten, tortured and left for dead.
When he was found eighteen hours later, he was
suffering from hypothermia. He would die five
days later.

The anti-gay hate crime created national in-
terest, eventually leading to the production of

both a TV movie and» HBO’s “The Laramie
Project.”

Shepard began her battle by starting the Mat-
thew Shepard Foundation and now gives lectures
across the country.

The Gay-Straight Alliance and SAB began
fundraising for Shepard’s visit, deeming it a worthy
goal. A

The GSA first sent a proposal to Contact, ask-
ing for help covering the costs. According to GSA
Co-chair Kelly Jo Larsen,‘ denial of their request
“just solidified our resolve
to bring Shepard to cam-
pus.” Larsen found that
“the campus responded in
an amazing fashion. So
many groups were saying.
‘Our budget is strapped but
we want to help. All I can
give is $100, will that
help?”’

In her introduction of
the program, Larsen’s reading of the numer-
ous co-sponsors: GSA, SAB, Offices of the
President and Provost, the Office of
Multicultural Affairs, Departments of History,
Sociology and Psychology, LIFE, KEWL,
GayLaw, and the National Lawyers Guild.

Shepard made an impassioned plea
against hate that she called a “learned behav-
ior” that “is alive and well in our country to-
day.” In a direct address to the audience she
asked “Did they hear those words from you?
‘That’s so gay?’ Why is that a bad thing?” She
asked people to remember that “these words
represent real people, who bleed and breathe."

 

SHEPARD

about gay rights

Shepard stated that “many people think
the gay community is very well represented by
The Village People”.

The theme of Shepard’s speech was clear:
“I don’t want this to happen anymore”.

The GSA again collaborated with KEWL
this week to bring two gay alumni, Dennis Riva,
‘97 and Jeanne Dillon, ‘96, to campus forithe
“Out on the Colonnade” program to discuss
alternative lifestyles on campus.

Other alumni in "attendance also shared
their stories.

A “clear message” was sent to two male
students caught having sex in 1980 who sub-
sequently left during Orientation Week, said
Emory Edwards, ‘84. I

In 1989, one fraternity brother brought a
student up on an HV for ‘‘lying about being
straight,” said Margaret Rhodes, ‘89. The stu-
dent remained on campus.

Doctor Julie Woodzicka, an Assistant
Professor of Psychology whose primary re-
search has to do with prejudice and stereo-
typing, was “impressed with Mrs. Shepard’s
using the tragic murder of her son as a vehicle
to promote equality and diversity.

For straight students, this means em-
bracing the gay community, being part of the
movement, and letting others know that you
won’t tolerate acts of prejudice or discrimina-
tion. If you aren’t part of the solution, you
really are part of the problem.”

Jessica Lloyd, president of KEWL, re-
marked that “Ms. Shepard has a very simple
but very powerful message to share, that it is
better to love than to hate.”

  

saiitase. usvmu uuamw
\VIlWa?=tiN£i"fON 3. LEE umvensrrv
l;P~)rmr>,mmm In/A 

HA? 0 #2001?

PAGE 2

‘1l*ti'iRlN(3~'l‘UAli)l-ll’
STAFF EDITORIAL
Get up, get into it

We here at The Ring—tum Phi like
to think that we exist for a reason. Al-
though we offer an open forum for opin- .
ions and features designed to entertain,
look at our first page: it’s news. Our pri-
mary job is to inform.

Keeping students connected to
their world on campus is the aim of ev-
ery student publication, and so it’s only
natural that any of us would rankle at
any hint of apathy toward school and
student affairs.

We’re not trying to deify or demean
the achievements those who put a prior-
ity on being involved. The fact of the
matter is that we all pay our individual
student activities fee, yet it seems that
precious few of us truly get what we pay
for. It’s our contention that, in general,
this is by no fault of The University and
its offerings, but rather the blame lies with
our own internal motivation.

Sure, “internal motivation” is an
out-of-place topic choice during what
most students cherish as a blessedly
leisurely Spring Term. The problem oc-
curs when this lax attitude spills over
into the rest of the year, which we be-
lieve it does.

We were also moved by the sheer
emotion that many alumni had for Wash-
ington and Lee this weekend, which was
evident in their fond rememberances, as
well as concerns about the decline of the
speaking tradition.

The solution is to get involved when
it matters, and one such time is with this
week’s E.C. Forum. Take the time to

speak up and dictate the collective deci-
sions which affect us all. It’s one of those
very rare moments when the students
can stand up and say “we matter.”

Fellow students: we implore you
to take action on whatever behalf you
choose, so long as you do it.,We can
and will prove that we can take even
more ownership of this, our beloved
university and home.

deed, both past and present,

((

   

te of the Week

))

“The best-selling bobblehead doll is Anna-
Nicole Smith, followed by Jesus.”

—Associated Press Report on the
Bobblehead Doll Industry

 

Editor in Chief
Managing Editor
Production Director
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Andrew Latimer
Erin Julius
Chris Lauderman
Caley Anderson

‘ Anne Finley
Cody Gabbard
John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Vanessa Arness

Production Assistants
Copy Editor

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Rob Rain

Leggett Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Managers

Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Din
Distribution Dir.

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Vrrginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
S p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper

I observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Te/op/tom’: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wIu.edu
Subscription rate $40

THE}: RI_NG-Ttl'I‘vI PEI

   

CAIEYANDEESON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
andersonc@wluedu

PINIONS

MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004

Honor System: More questions, fewer answers

I, Caley Anderson, pledge on my
honor that I have neither given nor received
any unauthorized or unacknowledged aid on
the forthcoming article. I received so many
comments on my last Honor System examina-
tion (and one letter to the editor from a phi-
losophy professor) that I have been per-
suaded to write another one. The entire cam-
pus seems to be abuzz with talk of the Honor
System. I would venture that there hasn’t
been a debate over the System of this magni-
tude since President Lee implemented the be-
ginnings of it during his mid-19”‘ Century ten-
ure. It is a tribute to the members of our
University’s community in-

that our unique adherence to
a principle endures in the 21*‘
Century.

But alas, ours is not an unquestioned
dedication,vnor ought it to be. Today, I’m go-
ing to look at a few more of the many ques-
tions that are being asked on our campus
these days, and do my best to give what I
think are the correct answers.

A grain of salt before we begin— what
you are about to read is simply my opinion,
not a statement of fact. In fact, even I’m not
so sure about it. I’ve spent a lot of time think-
ing about this issue, and I’m still not sure
about very much. Thus, not only is the fol-
lowing an opinion, it’s a doubtful opinion. So
keep that in mind as you read.

STATEMENT- “Honor might actually be
measured by degree, and the single sanction
may in fact be unjust. At least we ought to

. remove mandatory belief in the single sanc-

tion as a criteria for being a student or an
Open Hearing juror.”

That depends on your definition of
“honor.” Is honor simply being a good guy/
gal? Someone good and kind who friends can
rely on, who professors want to have in their
classes, and who contribute generally to the
W&L community; that, in my humble opin-
ion, is not honor. That is being a good stu-
dent, and though it will get you far in any
college, it will get you nowhere at Washing-
ton and Lee if it is not accompanied by honor.

That said, what IS honor, and can it be
measured by degree or not? In Professor
Mahon’s well-worded Letter to the Editor on
the next page, he points out that I should have

The Ring-tum Phi Quick Poll

MODERATE’s MUSINGS
CAIEY ANDERSON ‘O6

said last week that a dishonorable lie is one
that the teller intends to benefit by, rather than
one he does not. And I agree with this. Let’s
look at the obvious elephant in the room on
this issue, the student who was most recently
dismissed from the University because of the
Honor System. From all I’ve heard from his
friends and from he himself in his article in
the Trident, he seems like a great guy. But if
the lie that he told was indeed self-interested,
then the act was dishonorable, and in decid-
ing to eject him, the Executive Committee
acted correctly.

But that raises the question of whether
or not there ought to be a “le-
niency” system of sorts. The
student was an exemplary mem-
ber of the community apart
from the issue at hand, and
from the EC’s report, his offense had less of
an impact than a typical Honor Violation.
Ought we to suspend him instead, or offer
some other punishment?

My answer is no, for multiple reasons.
First, I believe that honor, at least as I define
it, is something that is not easily developed,
nor is it easily discarded. While I believe it’s
possible that people may be honorable or dis-
honorable at different stages of their lives for
different reasons, I also believe that, at any
given time, a person is one or the other. Have

I told a self-interested lie in my life? Yes, of

course. No one on campus could possibly
claim otherwise without being laughed at.
But, and this is a big but, have I told a self-
interested lie while on campus? No. And it
is my firm belief that most of the campus has
not done so either.

As if that were not enough of an argu-
ment, the White Book also challenges the EC
to prove that an Honor Violation constitutes
a serious breach of the W&L community’s
trust. Thus, even if you tell a self-interested
lie, as some people still on—campus have surely
done while here, it must have breached
someone’s trust. Therefore, it must have
caused some sort of problem or done some
sort of damage. If we are now applying this
rather stringent standard, the appearance that
the Honor System punishes “little white lies”
goes away. And I can agree that, by this stan-
dard, Honor is not measured by degree, and
we ought to apply the Single Sanction, and

Agree or disagree: The Honor System is in need
of modification at the fundamental level?

‘Strongly Disagree: 14%

    
   

Disagree:
22%

Don’t know, an’t
decide: 7%

Strongly Agree: 18%

 

Agree: 30%

57 students polled, 26 male, 31 female. The poll has +/— 5% margin of error with 95% level of conﬁdence‘

Bush, Republican Victory a near-certainty “"9

require students to agree to its appliance.
STATEMENT- “The EC ought to give us
more warning before an open hearing”

This is true. While Student Body Hear— 1 L f :’

ings, as we’ve learned, happen very rarely,
when one actually occurs, we should have a
date the same day that the accused and the

EC set a date. If the accused mounts a suc-'

cessful appeal or delay attempt, or some other
emergency happens to move the day, then a
new day should be set weeks in advance to
give students fair warning. Open Hearings

are so critically important that students‘ "

should be able to clear their calendars for that
day. Class and other events should be can-
celed for the entire day. In fact, although it’s

a time-honored place, the venue should be I 

moved away from Lee Chapel if there isn’t
enough room, perhaps to the Warner Center,

with bailiffs posted to ensure that non—W&L_ :

community members do not get in.
The fact that the students did not hear
of the near-open hearing this year until two

days before the set date is not acceptable, _
and I will be extremely disappointed if this‘

policy isn’t changed. Hopefully the new EC
gets the message loud and clear, and certainly

it will by the time the upcoming Honor Sys- . ‘ '

tem hearing is held.

STATEMENT- “Dishonorable conduct
should not be limited to simple dishonesty such
as lying, cheating, and stealing, or other things
like that, and should apply to behavior consis-

tent with President Lee’s demand that each stu- ;

dent be a gentleman (or lady, since 1985).”
This is a controversial statement, but one
that I agree with. Honor, to me, is a combina-
tion of honesty, integrity, and decency to other
people. Call me an independent prude if you

like, but I have been to multiple parties during ,

my time here where I’ve seen things that I’ r in

would define as dishonorable. The way some
guys behave towards girls here completely dis-
gusts me, as does a litany of other things I’ve
seen my classmates do. I’ve seen such con-
duct while the offender was sober, and I’ve
seen it when he/she was drunk. It really makes
no difference to me.

Drunkenness, common as it is on our , _

campus, may excuse some behavior, but it is
absolutely no excuse for some of the horrify-
ing things I’ve seen.

So, for the record, I humbly submit to the
Washington and Lee Community that the fol-
lowing things should beconsidered dishonor-
able without question: Getting someone drunk
with the express intent of taking advantage of
them, any sort of sexual harassment (you guys
know the kind I’m talking about, the kind prac-
ticed by that ONE guy at every party), willful
destruction of property (or indifference while
destroying), intentional presentation of false
identification, or intentionally harming another
member of the community (half-drunken play-
fighting, fine, whatever. Breaking a bottle and
charging, no. Hitting a pledge with a baseball
bat, no).

Well, that’s that. I hope I’ve at least got
you thinking about the Honor System. To all

of those who gave me their compliments, com-'

ments, and death threats last week, thank you
for your feedback. A special thank you to Pro-

fessor Mahon, who put his thoughts into.

Groupwise and sent me a much—needed correc-
tion. As always, I encourage you to do the
same if the urge takes you. I’m nothing if not
fallible, and the opinion of several people is
more often correct than the opinion of one.

As Mock Convention demonstrated to the student body, the Democratic
primary was a race to the bottom, not a search for the best man. Scared by the
prospect of either the ﬁery liberalism of Howard Dean or the pessimistic populism
of John Edwards, the party did not so much choose, as settle for John Kerry.

What drives the people working for Kerry 2004 today is not so much excite-
ment about their man as hatred of the president. Alas, with nothing to inspire
Democrats at the top of the ticket, the current verve will wither over the long, hot
summer. I
Come November, only the looniest of the Left and the most rabid Bush-
haters will be pulling the lever for the junior senator from Tax-
achusetts. President Bush is going to make those Vo1vo—drivir1g,
granola—eating, tax-raisers cry in their cornﬂakes with a huge land-
slide (think40 states, minimum.) Here’s_ why:

History: The last time a sitting president was defeated by a
challenger who was not nor had ever been a governor was 1888 when Benjamin
Harrison defeated Grover Cleveland. Sitting senators just can’t win. They simply
have cast too many votes and have spent too much time bloviating and compro-
mising, not the qualities people look for in a leader. Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado
knows this and, looking ahead to 2008, refused to run to replace the retiring Ben
Nighthorse Campbell.

No October surprise: In 2000, President Bush was running a comfortable
three or four points ahead until the story of his arrest for drunk driving ﬂooded the
news. This revelation changed just enough minds to cause a “perfect tie” result.
This time around, there will be no such surprises keeping Bush supporters at
home. Dubya is an open book; the only candidate that can be harmed by elev-
enth-hour disclosures is Kerry. ‘

Prosperity: Much to the chagrin of socialists and Democrats everywhere
(not necessarily the same people), the economy is humming along. Housing
starts, manufacturing numbers, consumer spending and business conﬁdence are
all up. Inﬂation is non—existent and unemployment claims are decreasing. The

    

RIGHT OF THE AISLE
BRETT KIRWAN ‘04

good news for President Bush is that the boom cycle has begun early enough that f » j . j

by Election Day, voters will have internalized the great state of the economy. In

1992, the ﬁrst President Bush suffered defeat despite a growing economy because ‘

the recovery had begun too close to Election Day and Americans had failed to

notice it. His successor later took credit for Bush’s successful economic leader-, . : . '_

ship. Forty-three has been much luckier than his father.
Convention Schedules: The Democrats made a colossal erroa in scheduling
their convention in late July. First, though the president will be using his consid-

ﬁt

erable primary war chest up to the GOP convention during Labor Day weekend, ' ’

Kerry will have to dip into his general election funds starting in
August. Also, anyone who does pay attention to the Demo-

that occur between the two conventions. In addition, the elec-
tion happens so long after the Democratic convention that

any post—convention bounce will have long since evaporated. Finally, whether 1 l - ~

they admit it or not, the third anniversary of 9/11 occurs soon after the GOP
convention, which is being held in New York, reminding the nation of President
Bush’s inspired leadership during that trying time.

Gay Marriage: As much as President Bush wishes that the issue of gay
marriage never arose, John Kerry wishes even more passionately that the
issue will not be on voters’ minds in November. Most Americans are shocked
at the thought of same sex couples being married and the Democratic nominee
hardly needs the added baggage that he’ll be bringing Massachusetts values
to America.

Nader: Ralph will not be as much of a factor as he was in 2000, but any

‘votes he earns will only be drawn from John Kerry. They may not add up to

much nationwide, but can be decisive in battleground states such as Califor-
nia, Florida and New Mexico. '

Given these factors (and the fact that President Bush has done a spec-
tacular job) expect to see red states sweeping the map on November 2.

cratic convention will be distracted by the summer Olympics .

CAIEYANDHISON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
andersonc@wluedu

MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004

its: Rli\'i(‘}~Tli’i\i’l Pin

PINIONS

Pics 3

Students mustpart1'c1'pa|te,1'n EC forum

Honor System forum? What Honor Sys-
tem forum? Yes, just in case you haven’t heard
yet, there will be an EC forum on Wednesday at
4 p.m. in Lee Chapel to address students’ con-
cerns about the Honor System and the White
Book. I sincerely hope everyone will attend.
There has recently been wide debate of ‘the
Honor System following the most recent EC
verdict. However, it’s been three weeks since
the canceled open hearing
that drew so much ire from
students from all walks of life
across campus.

The student who with-
drew, for those that knew him, is gone from campus
now and out of sight means out of mind. Frustration
and rage stepped aside ﬁrst to ﬁnals, then to Spring
Break, and now to Spring Term and nice weather.
Wﬂl our apathy — an apathy that grows over time like

.. a cancer — prevent us from acting on the events that

incensed so many that an emergency combined is-
sue of the Phi and Trident had to be published? We
as a student body like to complain about things, but
all too often we fail to act. Don’t let this be the time
when you say, “Let somebody else go, I don’t care,
it doesn’t affectme.” .
The Honor System affects us all. For a
long time I held similar sentiments: “I don’t have
anything to fear because the Honor System is
there to protect me. As long as I’m a good per-
son all will be fine.” The EC, those elected to

the EC, and the Honor System are very power-
ful organizations. It took going through one of
the worst experiences in my recent memory, that
of an EC Hearing, and losing a dear friend to the
system for me to fully realize this. The students
that we elect through what has been widely
agreed to be a simple popularity contest hold
our very futures in their hands. Should you be
brought up on an honor violation (and yes, it

can happen to you), their interpre-

MORE THAN MAINSTREAM tation of a twenty-page book will

decide the course of your life.

KELLY!OLARSEN‘05 Don’t you want to have a say in

that?

I applaud the EC for calling this forum. How-
ever, they must do more than just listen to our com-
plaints; they must act on our demands. If they sim-
ply patronize us at this forum, then it is a waste of
time for all parties involved. But if anything will
happen, we must show up, and show up in number.

We like to parade our honor system across
the cover of our admissions pamphlets but we
fail to truly discuss the way the system works.
Do you know the course of an honor violation
charge? If not, go to the forum and ask for it to
be explained. There are many aspects of the
Honor System that recent events have chal-
lenged: the way our representatives are elected,
the right of the student body to be informed
about activities of the EC, the appeals process,
issues of confidentiality, Open Hearing jury se-

lection, and the single sanction, among others.

If you are unsure of what I mean about
any of these, then write it down on a slip of
paper, drop it off in the envelope and have it
explained to you on Wednesday.

Want to let the EC know you think there
are problems, but aren’t comfortable asking
questions at a public forum? A group of stu-
dents, myself included, will be distributing
white ribbons (in honor of the white book)
across campus beginning Monday to show
support for EC reform. Pin one to your shirt as
a visible example to the EC of your support.
Let them know that you are holding them ac-
countable for their actions.

So turn in questions, wear a ribbon, and
then show up on Wednesday. EC President
Marie Trimble has said that the EC will try to
address any questions and concerns not previ-
ously submitted, so if you have a question at
the forum, raise your hand and ask. They should
be able to answer it. And keep asking questions
until you have received an answer that fully
satisfies you. If the EC runs out of time, de-
mand that they schedule a second forum. Don’t
stop because the EC says it’s time to go; they
have an obligation to us, the people that elected
them and the people whose lives they are af-
fecting, to answer every single question we
have. First though, you need to show up — your
very future could be at stake.

A notice from the Executive Committee

Dear W&L Community,

In response to recent interest and criticism regarding the Honor
System, the Executive Committee of the Student Body would like to
invite you to an open forum at 4 PM on Wednesday, May 5, 2004 at Lee
Chapel. In order for the Committee to be fully prepared, we ask that
questions be submitted prior to May 4"‘. Please submit questions at the
following locations: (1) an envelope attached to the EC board in the
Café/Emporiurn, (2) an envelope located outside of the EC ofﬁce, Univer-
sity Center room 122, or (3) by email to ec@wlu.edu. The Committee will
begin the forum be addressing previously submitted questions. The

Committee will then open the ﬂoor for further comments and concerns.
Please remember the Committee cannot discuss speciﬁc Executive Com-

mittee Hearings.

Sincerely,

and Lane Morgan.

We look forward to seeing you there. Please feel free to contact
the EC with any questions at ec@wlu.edu.

The Executive Committee of the Student Body: Marie T rimble,
Cristin Nunez, Justin Arnold, Marc Granger, Darmel Duddy, Noble
Stafford, Thomas Worthy, Wheeler Sparks, Charlie Yates, David Colman,

Letters to the Editor

Professor- Honor question ‘fudged’

Dear Editor,

In the light of a recent case before the EC,
Caley Anderson (4/26) raises an interesting ques-
tion, only to fudge it: “The question at stake here is
whether or not simply telling a lie, regardless of
scale or intent, constitutes an Honor Violation.” I
say that the question is fudged because a lie is an
intentional action, and one carmot talk of an inten-
tional action “regardless of... intent.” Anderson’s
example of a lie, in which “someone invites me to
something I really don’t want to go to” and “I beg
off because of a “prior engagement” that may or
may not exist” contains a second fudge. If he be-
lieves that he does indeed have a prior engage-
ment, then there is no lie.

Adapting his example to eliminate the sec-
ond fudge, we get “someone invites me to some-
thing I really don’t want to go to” and “I beg off
because of a “prior engagement” that I believe does
not exist.” This, then, is a lie. To return to the ﬁrst
fudge, Anderson says about his lie “my intent is to
spare their feelings. This is not dishonorable, in
fact, this is simple etiquette.” The problem is that
Anderson has confused his intention with his rea-
son for-lying. His intention is to deceive the other
person. What is his reason for lying? Well, he has
already said that he doesn’t want to go to the the
event. So his reason for lying is that he doesn’t

‘ . want to make a commitment to go to the event. In

I
conclusion, then, he lies to another person, and his

reason for lying is that he doesn’t want to make a
commitment to go to the event. I don’t see why this
is not dishonorable. It seems perfectly dishonor-
able to me. Furthermore, his claim that he is lying
 order to spare their feelings,” that is, that he is
doing the other person a favor by lying to him or
her, would appear to be be a classic case of self-
deception. He lies to another person, in order to
get out of making a commitment to do something
that he does not want to do, and then he tells him-
self that he is a good person, since he is sparing
the feelings of someone else.

Luckily, Anderson offers this lie merely as a
hypothetical case.

However, his question may now be raised,
without fudging. Does telling a lie, regardless of
scale, constitute an Honor Violation? Take the case
of a student who lies to another student, whom she
believes intends to set fire to a dorm, that he has
informed Security. Is that liar guilty of an Honor
Violation? I am confident that that liar would not be
found guilty of an Honor Violation. The reason is
that her lying would not normally be considered to
be a “breach of the community’s trust.”

However, most lies are not like that. Most
lies are se1f—interested, like Anderson’s hypotheti-
cal lie. So now the question is: Does telling a self-
interested lie, regardless of scale, constitute a
breach of the community’s trust? My own guess
is: No. My own guess is that a self—interested lie

Celebrate Spring Time

Brides ~ Graduation
witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540)264L0063
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements

Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day

Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

Test Prep and Admlsslons

Enter Kaplan’s Grad School Giveaway
for a chance to win a free 42" Sony’ Plasma
TV, Sony” DVD Dream“ System, or MP3 player.

Visit kaptest.com/giveaway to enter today!

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/giveaway

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. Open to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of
Columbia and Canada [excluding the Province of Quebec) and students residing ON A STUDENT VISA in these eligible
jurisdictions who are eighteen (18) years of age or older as at March 15, 2004. LIMIT: One entry per person. All
entries must be received or postmarked by June 15, 2004. For additional eligibility restrictions and instructions to
enter, see the complete Official Rules. available at Kaplan ceﬂters and oncampus sites in the U.S. and Canada.
online at kaptest.com/giveaway. or by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to ‘Grad School‘ Giveaway. 1440
Broadway, 8" Floor. New York. NY 10018. Thirteen (13) winners Will be selected from all eligible entries received in a
random drawing to be held on or about August 9. 2004. Odds of winning depend on total number of eligble entries
received. Participation in this promotion constitutes entrant's full and unconditional agreement to and acceptance of
the complete 0"IClaI Rules. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED, TAXED OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED. If you do not wish to
receive notice of future Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions promotions, contact us at Kaplari Test Prep and
Admissions, Marketing Department, 1440 Broadway, 8*” Floor, New Vork. NY 10018.

has to be, in some sense that has not been ex-
plained by EC, and that is not given in The White
Book, serious or harmful, in order to constitute a
breach of the community’s trust. But if you are now
worried, because you don’t know when a self—in-
terested lie is serious or harmful, then don’t be.
Simply never lie, or at least, never lie self—interest—
edly, and you will be ﬁne.

Sincerely,

' James E. Mahon
Dept. of Philosophy

‘General’ or ‘President’ Lee?

Dear Editor,

During a tour through Washington and
Lee, my son and I happened to pick up a copy
of the Ring—tum Phi, which we looked through
with great enjoyment. While we also enjoyed
the Opinions section, I was displeased by
your reference to “President Lee.” I do not
know if you are from the South or not, but the
man is generally referred to here as “General
Lee,” as his accomplishments at the head of
the Army of Northern Virginia outshine those
as head of Washington and Lee. Otherwise,
it was very nice writing, but please refer to
this great man properly next time.

Sincerely,

Cynthia Greenwood

See
Mystic River

Tonight, Monday May 3rd, at
p 7:00 in the Eirod Commons

When they were kids growing up together in
a rough section of Boston, Jimmy Markum (SEAN
PENN), Dave Boyle (TIM ROBBINS) and Sean
Devine (KEVIN BACON) spent their days playing
stickball on the street, the way most boys did in
their blue—collar neighborhood of East Buckingham.
Nothing much ever happened in their neighbor-
hood. That is, until Dave was forced to take the ride
that would change all of their lives forever.

T‘wenty—ﬁve years later, the three find them-
selves thrust back together by another life altering
event — the murder of J iinmy’s 19-year-old daughter.
Now a cop, Sean is assigned to the case and he and
hispartner(LAURENCE FISHBURNE)arecharged
with unraveling the seemingly senseless crime. They
must also stay one step ahead of Jimmy, a man
driven by an all consuming rage to ﬁnd his
daughter’s killer.

Connected to the ciirne by a series of circurn—

stances, Dave is forced to confront the demons of

his own past. Demons that threaten to destroy his
marriage and any hope he may have for a future. As
the investigation tightens around these three friends,
an ominous story unfolds that revolves around
friendship, family and innocence lost too soon.

NABORS SERVICE
DAY IS COMING

Saturday, May 15th, 2004 Be a
good citizen for a day and sign up
to help out in the community.

e—mail perinij @wlu.edu for more
inforrnation, or visit _ http://
shepherdapps.wlu.edu/nabors/

Write for
the Phi!

The Phi is looking to hire
' writers for all sections.
Editorships available for
those who want a challenging
and fun extracurricular.

Call x4060 or e—mail
plii@wlu.eduI

RED HOT PROGRESSIVE
BLUEGRASS BAND

MULE TRAIN

FEATUREING: GARY RULEY, WILL LEE,
LARRY KEEL, AND JENNY KEEL

RARE OPPORTUNITY TO BOOK THIS

BAND FOR YEAR END
CELEBRATION
AVAILABLE: MAY 3-5
MAY 1o—12
MAY 17,18, 31
JUNE 1,2

CALL GARY RULEY AT 463-6683 OR 463-
4584 OR WWW.LARRYKEEL.COM

 

   

JOHNHYLAND
A$rrANrSpomsE,Dr1oR Tl"lE RE‘\1=(i~TUi‘vl ljlll
hy1md1b@Wh1edu O R S
l A
MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004 I PAGE 4 '
it
ii
A
,M
1 1 11 1 , 1 1 1 BY STEVEN MARINOS THE RING-TUM PHI 3»

I. d ' ODAC A ' °  

aC1‘ OSSC teams OII111’lat€ COl’Ilp€t1t101’l

W "I dfR A'ii 

omen earn recognition or success Men a cat oano e 111 c ampions 1p
W&L SPORTS RELEASE A - - -
Generals finish season undefeated against ODA C A
LEXINGTON, Va. — Six members of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference champion Washing- ' ,
' d
ton and Lee women’s lacrosse team earned recog— W&L SPORTS (N°“h1?°“’ ‘Y’/Nonhport) tafllled two g0,‘11S an
nition on the All-ODAC team which was announced , RELEASE one fasslst dllrmg the Generals gam,e'0pemng run‘ .
on Friday In addition Senior goalie Joanna Fermi Senior goalie Ansel Sanders (White Stone, Va./ Ab,
. ' ’ . W db F k h M ff h b d
(Huntington, N.Y./Huntington) was named the LEXINGTON V E. h h ank d d unis 2%e11f”;r}r'eII<1>£r£=r:)d iiptthte Erstatrlplofns osmtlire 4 ;)::'h
ODAC Player of the Year, While Head Coach Jan t d d W hin t a1 :Leg  -I de inf of the first 11 shots he faced y g
Hathom was tabbed ODAC Co-Coach of the Year. °P‘Se‘°' ‘’ as 3 °“ an 6 Jump“ 0“ ° . '
.. .. 6-01 d 'd thr hth d "d H ,th M d'd ak ,tll-
seniors, attacker Kelly Taffe (Charlottesville, Va./ A m“ e 0 an 1 Wm °,Ver "r 6 an Sec" g g , ,
Albemarle) and defender Sara Jurkowsky (Annapo— O11d_Seede11 R11 111101.16 111 the ODAC M61115 143- goglsjof-1:e71:12rd quajnér 11? Cit 111; ienelalg lead
lis, Md./Annapolis), as well as junior midﬁelder Kitt cmsse Champlonshlp game on Sunday afternoon to _ W11 ' 1ema111111g111t _e1 11 pen? ‘ ,
Murphy (New York, N.Y./St. Catherines). Senior at— at Wilson Eield. ’ _ . W&L responded by ending the period with
tacker Lee Wheeler (Baltimore, Md./Bryan Mawr) Jumor anackman Gavm Mohnelh Ex?) tSh1:af1_1i1:1 §:;1:ef0;0:10v8;i:ga:;:1;:g; I:1(:1I:1(1):§ "
and sophomore midﬁelder Rachel Wallick (Phoe— _ , ' _

. h, M d. /N D Pr d d h G _ senior midﬁelder Jeff Pattison (Mercer Island,
:11:au_c0nf§:1:1ceaS1::1l1::cti1:)1:1)srv1:1i1t1l11 SeeCg:;1T:aI:1[1:ﬁ_i Wash./Mercer Island) with 11:48 remaining to cut
ODAC . the score to 8-6, the Generals ripped off three-

““?"T"“‘““’“‘S' . straight for an 11-6 lead with 4-21 left in the game ‘A
Perini, who has earned All-Region, All-State ‘ , '
and Honorable Mention All-America honors dur— f11_1h;1:1_:;°%nS addlild two eX11a_nl1an goals 111 the
ing her career, is earning Eirst Team A11—ODAC lau— _ _ V _ 111 ' ’ _ 111C911 not gel any C 0861' ,
rels for the second straight season after posting a PLAYER OF THE YEAR‘ Senior goalie Joanna Penn‘ M011 116111 and Semor attackman M11“
6.42 goals against average and making 140 saves garnered the top ODAC honor‘ ::1:l:1a;1;:;at§lS§:1;‘:/aa:ﬂ:;1N£::1:2;?S1:Lfjhthggs: ’‘
for a .593 save percentage. Her goals against aver— balls and ranking among the squad leaders with . . . '
age ranks in the Top 20' nationally, while her save 21 caused turnovers. ’ a11aCk111a11 Ma11.F111k (W1111111.1g1011.’ 1361'/111111111111)
percentage ranks Top 15. Earlier this season she Wheeler, a ﬁrst teamer in 2001, earned her Enid the 111:l1,.1W1c13T’ wh111&:e/1I1)10§1111d11e1(111(e11(1i1/151111
was named an Inside Lacrosse Division HI Honor— second straight appointment to the second team go; er1:1eEn(e ders  (111aa:1;:)erahi ch 0.1:: ;'__
able Mention Player of the Week. after ranking second on the team with 50 points a ' . S1 ' 16 _ g W1
. . . . . . . 16 saves in net.
Taffe 1S making her second straight first team on a team-high 17 assists with 33 goals. Walhck . . .
. . . . S k Kri D P k , Md./
appearance after earning second team recognition earned her first All-ODAC laurel after starting all Here for1E11;1§1e1da$:CNIe:rO0n: W::11:W(o:1O;0Snand an
in 2002. This season she has notched a teain-high 18 games at midﬁelder, scoring ﬁve goals, grab— . ‘
66 points on a team-leading 53 goals with 13 as— bing 36 ground balls and co-leading the team with ?(S)::11g'evi1:11ee SO11n1:1a:i1:)/C;l1ar:1z(:e1:,11§11:§1ad(1j;1(;1m1(:4gaOSa:1 ~V
sists on her way to setting school records for ca— 24 draw controls. . ’ , ’
al 179 d . 234 ‘ M h , . _ H h . _ while sophomore Matt Madalon (Darien, Conn./
ii’.".f.ft‘.’..eS§..iec1t*2,’.‘.,§.Z2“ZZ§f§§‘i§ p0i)nts1(1):ipn1i]n: ing e§$§£°Z? .i.?’yZ‘a‘i“£Z§.aZ“%§§‘11.‘Z  Dmv Posted   in goal-
d . . . . . . . With the win, W&L claimed its eighth ODAC
ggadl: an twto 2;SS1SlS and is third on the team with Oglelélll an:lth(e1t§ii;c)lprit1Ie1:  thetl:s(t) 132155358, leg Championship and the 1eague,S accompanying I
aw con ro s. t e ener s - o eir six 1 can . . . . . . .
Jurkowsky is making her ﬁrst appearance as ﬁfth berth in the NCAA Division IH Tournament. _ 1I:{”sﬁ‘:l”I’h.“ "“‘°U°“L J‘““°; ““““‘°1:":‘;“f‘ (:'“‘V‘.“ ¥C-AA D‘V‘S,‘)°“ E1 T°“.r1’1“‘;“°“‘ b‘d' Ti‘: Ncéx’?
an all-conference selection after starting all 18 Ranked 11th in the country, W&L awaits who it 0 C ,at1_e 11111.13 10 ypass 11 011111.) C 11 C11 61111 01111111111e111 1110.613 W1 6 announce 011 0 1
games on defense, leading the team with 49 ground will play in the upcoming NCAA Tournament. the team S Wctonous ODAC C11amp1O11S111p game" 1ege Spons Te1ev1S1o11 011 S1111" May 9'
‘ i.

Loss to Mar

SPORTS INFORMATION AND
JOHN HYIAND

LYNCHBURG, Va. - Washington and Lee re-
corded a 4-3 victory over Virginia Wesleyan to force

. a second game in the 2004 Old Dominion Athletic

Conference (ODAC) Baseball Tournament on Sun-
day afternoon, but fell to the Marlins in game two,
12-8.

lowing the top of the second inning, but saw that
lead evaporate after W&L sophomore first baseman
Taylor McConnell connected on a three-run homer
in the bottom of the second to tie the game at 3-3.

In the seventh and game deciding inning,
Sibley led off the frame with a single and advanced
to second compliments of a sacriﬁce bunt by se-
nior shortstop Austin Allain. Sophomore second
baseman Scott Gosselink brought Sibley home in

   

inning, but again saw W&L climb back into strik-
ing distance. The Generals got as close as 10-8 in
the top of the eighth inning, but couldn’t maintain
the late game surge as Virginia Wesleyan added
two more runs in the bottom of the eighth.
Bausch went 3-for-5 with two RBI and a run
scored to lead W&L, while ﬁve other Generals re-
corded a pair of hits. Senior right hander Dan Kagey
fell to 6-3 after giving up three hits and four runs in

ins ends baseball team’s hopes of winning ODAC Championship

Harnpden-Sydney on Friday evening, another team
that had swept them during the regular season.
This time however, W&L was unable to avenge
their previous losses. The Generals tied the score
at three in the top of the sixth, only to see the Ti-
gers respond once again with three runs, all with
two outs, in the bottom of the inning, for a 6-3 lead
en route to a 6-4 victory.

The loss placed the Generals in the loser’s

 

The decision marks the second straight the next at-bat with a double down the left ﬁeld the first inning. bracket and they faced Lynchburg once again on -A
ODAC runner-up ﬁnish for W&L after the Gener— line. ~ In their opening round playoff game on Saturday afternoon’ in an elimination game. The
als ﬁnished behind Virginia Wesleyan in the 2003 Dean recorded his second complete-game Thursday afternoon, the Generals faced second Generals would end up victorious, 6-2.
ODAC Tournament. Senior left hander Peter Dean, victory of the tournament after notching five 1 seeded Lynchburg, a team that had swept W&L The win eliminated Lynchburg and set—up a
senior right ﬁelder Bryan Mulhem, seniorleft ﬁelder strikeouts and holding VirginiaWesleyan to 10 hits. during the regular season. Dean improved his rematch with Hainpden-Sydney. Again the Gener— .}
Paul Sibley, junior catcher Zach Bausch and fresh— Gosselink, Sibley, Bausch and freshman designated record to 8-2 on the year with awin, striking out an als started quickly with ﬁve runs in the ﬁrst two . ' 1
man third baseman Clayton Edwards were all named hitter Richard Garland all recorded two hits for the impressive twelve batters over nine innings. innings, highlighted by freshman designated hitter
to the 2004 ODAC All—Tournament team for their Generals. Edwards was the hero offensively for W&L, ﬁnish— Richard Garland’s three run homer. The Generals
performance in the Generals Championship run. In game two the Marlins again took an early ing 3 for 4 with an RBI and a run. would go on to win, 6-5.
In game one the Marlins took a 3-0 lead fol— lead with an 8-4 advantage following the second The Generals next faced fourth seeded The team wraps up the season 21-16 overall. 1..
ALL AUTO SERVICES - -
W B-Wakes-Exhaust-Tune-up University Cleaners }
 §tt§'. Creczffrrg solutions. crlaaﬂgirig lives. '  S(Ervices _ 011 C'lI1a§lge _ 7   
U. * Engine & Transmission Lexington, VA 24450
........................................................................ . ‘ Replacement/R°b““d 463-3622
SUMMER CAMP J OBS GeneFa1S°PVi°e&RePair _ _ I _ ,.
Car Wash In/Out& Detailing University Cleaners offers full service storage for all
Looking for The best Summer of your life? U_Hau1Tmck&Tmi1er your winter clothing and bedding.’ Each item IS cleaned
camp Easier seals in Virginia has job Rentals andlstored, ready for pick up in the fall. Regular
openings for camp counselors and program Cleanmg Charges 5_lPPlY 3“d are billed to YOUI h0m9 ;,
leaders (aquatics, horseback riding, music, 10% STUDENT - ._ address in July. Storage is free.
. ————-j-—— Blue Ridge Auto Center
nature, sports and more). Work W|‘l’l1 . -
children and adults with disabilities at one 1973 Ma$“°1“’‘A“*- It couldn’t be easier, bring in your clothing this spring
of our beautiful camping facilities. Staff DISCOUNT ll Buena Vista, VA 24416 and pick it up in the fall, clean, pressed, and ready to ,(
members C01“? f"°l“ “"055 ll‘? U5 “id 1 (540) 261'9377 wear. Eliminates the need to carry it all home over the
“"°”l‘d lhe W°"ld- R°°"‘g b°°"d “"d 5°'°'Y federated summer. Call or stop in today for addictional
provided. For information contact Lauren OPEN information
Lightfoot at (804) 633-9855. or , ,_ ,MmFi""§_5 _ ' A _ .
Ii;ghhc°o,»@,,a_wm,._5eal5_o,.9 Sat 8 Noon?“ Free Summer Storage of all winter clothes and bedding *

 

 

  

 

 

JOHNHYIAND

AssrrANrS1>o1nsEDr1oR
hylandjb@wluedu

MONDAY, MAY 3,2004

STRETCH. Womens’ tennis continues towin.

THE Ri\r;-TUM Pm

PORTS

PAGE 5

Women’s tennis advances to NCAA Nationals
with wins over Mary Washington, Swarthmore

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis
team downed Mary Washington on Saturday and
Swarthmore on Sunday to advance in the NCAA
tournament.

The women preformed strongly in their three-
day tournament, taking all sixth singles ﬂights and
all three doubles ﬂights.

_ The Generals, who scored a total of 72 points,
were followed by ODAC competitors Hollins (51),
Emory&Henry (36.5), Roanoke (28), Lynchburg (N5),
Bn'dgewater(19),VrginiaWesleyan(19),Guilford(135),
Randolph-Macon (10.5), Sweet Briar (10.5), Eastern
Mennonite (6), Randolph-Macon Woman’s (3.5).

Junior Lindsay Hagerman had a 6-1, 6-1
win over Hollins in the finals single action.
Freshman Kristen McClung was also victorious
with a 6-0, 6-3 win over Hollins at no. 2 singles
action. And No. 3 singles player senior Eliza-
beth Law lead the women to a victory, winning
the championships with a 6-1, 6-2 win.

Freshman Ginny Wortham, sophomore Lisa
Mabry, and freshman Katie Kingsbury also put forth
a tremendous effort, winning all their singles
matches as well.

In doubles action, the Generals continued to
come out on top. Teammates Hagerman and
Wortham defeated Hollins, 6-2, 6-1. Junior Lora
Farris and McClung beat Roanoke, 6-1, 6-2. And
Law and Mabry downed Hollins, 6-2, 6-2.

The Generals advanced by playing
Swarthmore yesterday. In singles competition, the
Generals won ﬁve of six matches. In doubles, the
team won two of three.

Hagerman commented that the team was
already making an amazing comeback. “It was
great because we won No. 1 doubles and lost
No. 3, but our No. 2 team won a really key
tiebreaker,” she said while watching her team-
mates yesterday.

She believes the freshmen are playing like
older, more experienced players. ‘“I'hey’re holding
their own throughout the competition,” Hagerman
said. “As a result, we’re just as strong as last year.”

If the Generals win, they will progress to"

NCAA Nationals in Memphis May 12-17.

Letfr /aepe t/ml‘ Bored: does ml‘ eaemz/ée baseball} Zme greatp/egyers

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRITER

p All over the news and
- . 4 ' magazines these days are discus-
A sions about Barry Bonds con-
cerning his alleged steroid use
and the legitimacy of his statis-
tics. The split seems to be about
50/50 between those who like
Bonds and those who don’t.
Well for those of you who blindly
follow Bonds (this doesn’t in-
4_ clude you, Giants fans), this is
why you should not be a fan of
Barry Bonds.

To begin with, let’s clear up
this steroid business. There are
so many people discussing
whether or not Barry even did
steroids, to which I respond,
“Are you freaking kidding me,
‘ LOOKATHIM!!!” Between the

1999 and 2000 seasons Bonds
went from a speedy, athletic out-

ﬁelder with good pop to a muscle-
bound hulk that can’t move. If
he made this transformation with-
out the use of steroids or other
illegal supplements then I would
really like to meet his personal
trainer. . .not that I would be able
to afford him. Many aging play-
ers had taken steroids and then
all of a sudden hit more home
runs than ever before, and Bonds
did the same exact thing. I asked
minor leaguer Josh Pressley
(Mets) a few years ago how bad
he thought the steroid problem
was and he estimated that 75%
of position players use steroids.
Though tests have come out that
indicate a measly 7%, let ’s re-
member that these tests were an-
nounced to the players months
before and that Latin American
players were not allowed to be
tested. This survey told us ab-
solutely nothing, except that 7%

of minor league baseball players
are so stupid that they could
probably learn something from
Jessica Simpson. Having said
this, steroids are everywhere in
baseball, and all you have to look
for is a player whose body
changes dramatically for the bet-
ter over an off-season and whose
slugging percentage rises dra-
matically and you can bet that
there has been some foul play
involved. I salute Bonds for go-
ing right up to the edge of immo-
bility but not crossing that line
as Gary Shefﬁeld did while with
the Marlins.

Now the question be-
comes, “Does this taint Barry

Bonds’ statistics?” Of course it

does! When Albert Belle hit 50
homeruns and 50 doubles in a
season but then was caught with
a corked bat, his stats were
tainted to the point that no one

« Ritter awarded NCAA scholarship

 

 

W&L SPORTS
RELEASE

INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. — Washington and
Lee senior swimmer Eric Ritter (Birmingham, Ala./
Mountain Brook) has been awarded a National
Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Postgradu-
ate Scholarship. The award is a $7,500 scholarship
for academic work beyond the baccalaureate de-
gree as a full-time or part-time graduate student.

Ritter was one of 58 awardees from NCAA
All-Divisions who received the scholarship after
participating in a winter sport. The NCAA awards
174 scholarships armually in the fall, winter and
spring seasons. Football player John Melillo ’03
and tennis player Erika Proko ’03 both received
one of the 174 scholarships during the 2002-03
school year. Ritter’s selection marked the 22nd time
a W&L athlete has been selected to receive an
NCAA Postgraduate Scholarship since 1970.

A biology and classics major, Ritter claims a

3 .879 cumulative grade-point average and plans on
attending medical school at the University of Ala-
bama. .

In swimming, Ritter qualiﬁed for the NCAA
Championships all four years, earning All-America
honors ﬁve times. A three-time College Swimming
Coaches Association of America (CSCAA) Aca-
demic All-American, Ritter will graduate holding
school records in the 100 backstroke (51.07), 200
backstroke (l:5 1 .91), 200 medley relay (1236.12) and
400 medley relay (3:30.18). As a senior, Ritter led

W&L to a 7-0 record and a Bluegrass Mountain’

Conference Championship. A First Team All-Blue-
grass Mountain Conference selection, Ritter fm-
ished seventh in the 100 back and 13th in the 200
back at the 2004 NCAA Championships.

In addition to his work in the pool and class-
room, Ritter has also served as an assistant swim-
ming coach in his hometown of Birmingham, Ala.,
and has been a volunteer with the Lexington Res-
cue Squad.

considers that year an actual
achievement. Steroid use is far
more of an advantage to a player
than corking his bat, though the
combination can be ridiculous
<cough Sammy Sosa>. The im-
pact this has had on his career in
startling. Bonds’ average, home
runs, and stolen bases were all
beginning to drop as he turned
35, which is to be expected. Then
all of a sudden, between the ages
of 35 and 40, he has hit 223 home
runs. . .SO FAR! Retirement prob-
ably would have come within
three years had he not started
juicing, and instead he may pass
a beloved American icon, Babe
Ruth, who only used the kind of
juice that you ﬁnd at W and L
parties. I just hope he doesn’t
make it all the way to Aaron. But
this isn’t the only unfair advan-
tage that Bonds has gained in the
last few years.

 

Possibly more irritating
than the steroid use, is the use of
the bionic arm. With the body
armor Bonds wears, I’m surprised
he can even tell that he’s been
hit, no less feel any actual pain.
Because of ,this body armor and
the fact that pitchers can be
tossed for looking at a hitter
funny give him the ability to
stand on top of the plate with no
consequences. The league has
completely stolen the inside part
of the plate from pitchers whose
last names aren’t Martinez and
Clemens. This gives Bonds the
ability to hit any pitch for a
homerun. Pitchers need to be
able to brush guys off the plate
and reclaim the inside corner
without fear of being ejected, and
batters need to be able to feel the
pain when they get too close and
get pegged. I reminisce on the
days when Bob Gibson would

ounTFsY PORTS iINI~ORMA‘nON
SWIMMER, SCHOLAR. The NCAA awarded senior swimmer Eric Ritter
with its Postgraduate scholarship. '

this week’s schedule

Wednesday May 5

Thursday May 6

Friday May 7

Saturday May 8

Sunday May 9

0 OPEN

0 Track at Liberty--TBA

' Riding at Nationals--
TBA

' Track at JMU
Invitational--TBA
°Riding at Nationals--
TBA

°W Lax at NCAA’s--
TBA

° Track at JMU
invitational--TBA

0 Riding at Nationals-- A
TBA

‘W Lax at NCAA’s--
TBA

Ring-tum Phi -

Spons

BARBER SHOP

17 S. Randolph ~ Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
‘ Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

 

LOOK YOUR BES FOR
SPRING!

Come by and see Skip, Connie and Wilson at the NEW LOCATION!

SKIP THOMPSON’S

      
     
      

Student Discounts  

    

peg you your next at bat after a
home run whether you taunted
or not (What?! I can reminisce
about times before I was born if I
want tol).

Don’t get me wrong here, I
recognize that Bonds is a fantas-
tic athlete, and that he is one of
the greatest hitters of our time. I
even agree that Bonds is clearly
a Hall of Famer, but the thought
of him breaking Aaron’s record
makes me cringe. Bonds would
be a great hitter without the ste-
roids, but he wouldn’t win a bat-
ting title without them and he
certainly wouldn’t have hit 73
home runs in a season without
them. My only hope is that with
how tightly strung Bonds’ body
is with all his muscles that he will
soon tear a hamstring, I dunno
probably walking up the steps
out of the dugout, and stop short
of Ruth or Aaron.

Congrats
ODAC
Champs

You want to go
to medical school,
you have your B.A.,
but the only
science course
you've taken
has been
Physics for Poets.

We have
a program
for you.

Columbia University’s
Postbaccalaureate
Premedical Program is
America’s oldest and best.

11
o
U)
H
o-
in
n
(t
E’.
at
:
1
m
in
n
m
'u
'1
5
m
9-.
n
9.’
1
'1
o
co
1
§

Discover why our
graduates have an 85%
placement rate in American
medical schools. Call:

(800) 8904127

gspremed@columbia.edu
www.columbia.edu/culgs/postbacc

C O L U M B I A
School of General Studies

 

 

 

PAGE 6

THE

EB R1N(;;-mi PHI L
AST WORD

MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004

No student should go without these ﬁve professors

As June 3 marks the end of my undergradu-
ate career here at W&L, I would like to leave feeling
as though I did what I could while I was here to
improve the lives of others on campus, especially
those who will remain for at least another year. It
has been a long four years, both the best and worst
of my life, and if the few pieces of wisdom I have
gathered through my experiences can be manifested
I as helpful sug-
gestions for
others then I
am obliged to
share what I
can. If, however, my suggestions fail to be of any
use, well then I can’t blame myself for trying.

Since W&L is, first and foremost, an institu-
tion of higher learning, arguably the most impor-
tant aspect of life here on campus is classes, and in
turn, one of the most important aspects of classes
is the professors. Being a C—school major, I have
had very little experience with the vast majority of
professors on campus (and most of the ones I had
freshman year are actually not even here anymore),
but the good professors I have had here have been
excellent, and I highly recommend taking their
classes before you graduate. Here are my top ﬁve
favorite professors (drumroll please!)

1. ProfessorMarc Conner—English. Do not
leave this campus without having had at least one
of this man’s classes. End of story. I had him both
for 105 and for Shakespeare this past term. Overall,
Prof. Conner is by far the most engaging professor
I’ve ever had the pleasure of listening to, and his
extensive knowledge of subject and enthusiasm
for material is unmatched. Albeit a tough grader

THE NAKED TRUTH
COURTNEY PERRY ‘04

with high expectations, he is
very fair and genuinely inter-
ested in his students. You will
learn more from one of his
classes than possibly all of
your other W&L classes com-
bined, and you are wasting
your four years here if you
forego the opportunity of tak-
ing his classes.

2. Professor Robert Ballenger——Manage-
ment. This really only applies to C-school majors,
but if there is anyone else, from any major who
wants to learn the basics about computers, infra-
structures, or anything else IT, Professor’
Ballenger’s Management Information Systems class

    

Conner

is an excellent starting point. Professor Ballenger is '

a tough grader as well (extremely anal retentive when
it comes to details) but is usually very willing to
work with students and answer questions. Be pre-
pared to wait in lines outside his ofﬁce in the days
before projects are due. However, the amount of
information you will learn in his classes, taught
with a genuine interest and expertise (he is very
knowledgeable as far as his
subject matter goes) is abso-
lutely vital to any C—school
major expecting to go out into
the business world after
graduation. On the downside,
this past year has seen the de-
velopment of many extracur-
ricular IT projects in which
Prof. Ballenger has played a
major role. While great for the future of the univer-

 

 

Ballenger

 

sity, these added stresses and time commitments
have sometimes come at the cost of his students,
who have then had to deal with his unapproach—
able and, at times, curt manner.

3. Professor Lyn Wheeler—Accounting.
Again, this is really for C—school majors, but Ac-
counting 201 (basic financial accounting) is good
stuff to know for anyone, really. Professor Wheeler
is very in—tune with his stu-
dents and has a real eye for
the social culture at W&L. He
makes jokes in class that ac-
tually make debits and cred-
its funny and thus not pain-
ful to listen to at 8 o’clock in
the freakin’ morning. He is
very friendly, and always help-
ful (as an advisee, I should

\
Wheeler

know— I tend to need a lot of help), and knows a
ton of people, both on campus, and in the working
world. His tax classes are also very practical for

anyone who wants to learn to do his own taxes.
4. Professor Robert Culpepper—Manage-

ment. Another C—school pro-
fessor, however, Professor
Culpepper teaches Business
Law, with is obviously great for
pre—law students as well as a
requirement for management.
Professor Culpepper is hysteri-
cal, and he looks and talks like
Tommy Lee Jones, which kind ~ A - A
of makes you feel like you’re Culpepper

on the set of the The Fugitive while listening to him
lecture on legal matters during class. Okay, maybe

    

Silver screen lights up again at renovated State

STAFF WRITERS

new computerized ticketing system is put

in place.

Students who are sick and tired of
having to drive to Roanoke or Staunton

fear no more. With the
opening last Friday of the
renovated State Theater,

Hollywood has come once 550W D002
again to Lexington. 73 Going on 30
After a four-month pdmm of like Cjm-5,

hiatus, the State joins the

Commons Theater and

Hull’s Drive-In as local big—screen op-
tions. While its absence hampered the in-
town entertainment scene, management
trusts that the improvements made the
wait well worth it.

Nearly every fixture was refur-
bished inside and out, and new chairs
and Dolby Surround sound have re-
placed out-of—date equipment. Outside
the auditoriums, the concessions stand
now sports a drastically updated appear-
ance and more selections.

Soon patrons will be able to buy tick-
ets and check movie times online once the

Built nearly 70 years ago, the State
had been showing its age for some time.
‘ to get a selection of latest release movies, Yet as the only viable in-town movie- going

PLAYING THIS WEEK:

most students by surprise and left a void
for those who had grown accustomed to
being able to walk to the local movie house.

Management hopes that their reno-
vations will pay off as ticket prices have
increased. Only time will tell if students
are willing to fork over extra cash for a
revamped experience. In an era of sta-
dium-seating and twenty-screen multi-
plexes, the demand for theaters like the
State has been dwindling. As a full-price
competitor to the free Commons and cut-
rate Hull’s Drive-in, it does not have stu-
dents’ undivided attention.

option with the shuttering of
the Lyric Theater two de-
cades ago, the State seem-
ingly had little incentive to
improve itself.

All that changed with
the sudden closing of the
theater in January, which took

ANDREW LAT v/ The Ring-tum Phi

I£r’s so our TO THE rom3Y.]ust about everything at the State is brand new

Q/sz‘z°c Fzhrorzs Ball cgfordah/6 cmdftm, for at good some

BY ERIN ]ULUs
MANAGING EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s second annual Char-
ity Ball for the Beneﬁt of Cystic Fibrosis is to be
held Saturday, May 15 from 7-10 p.m.

Organizers are hoping for a better turnout
this year, ‘since only 65 people attended last year.
This year, organizer Jonathan Leﬂer invited 3200
people to the Ball, and said he expects about one-
third of them to attend.

phi@wIu.edu

Q Overheard at a cocktail party: “I love PIKA’s
little weenies.” A

 

Q Join us on May 22nd for the unveiling of
President Burish’s statue at Goshen Pass in recog-
nition of his saving Spring Term.

Q Today is World Press Freedom Day!

(I) Gone With the Wind won the Pulitzer Prize
only 67 years ago today.
(I) Just to add to the recent vandalism in the

freshmen parking lot: whoever backed into the front
grill of my Volvo cost me $300.

Q The other night, I saw the strangest thing:
On the Commons third ﬂoor, there was a very strange
girl muttering the lyrics to Britney Spears’ “Toxic”
while dancing/ ﬂopping around on the ﬂoor. Very,
very odd. Someone needs to get that girl some help.

(I) To guys: Jeans are hot, khakis are not.

(I) I wonder if the Cadavers are related to the
Knights Who Say Ni?

Unlike most events at W&L, the Ball fea-
tures three sets of scheduled dances, which will
include a polka, Virginia Reel, a country dance “Pop
Goes the Weasel” and a waltz. They will be lead by
dancemaster Becky McKenzie and be preceeded
by instruction. . ' A

Burr Datz’s band, Monrovia, will provide the
music.

Tickets will be sold in the Commons from 1 1-
1 the week before the Ball and may be swiped home.
Tickets are $25 per person, $35 per couple. All the

1

Q Wind Ensemble Russia Tour 2004: Lexington
does Moscow and St. Petersburg! Good times,
good times.

Q Thanks to the Gay Straight Alliance and the
other student organizations for bringing Judy
Shepard to W&L!

Q Graharn—Lees Second Floor Commons side

would like to invite Helen Hughes to Hooters on ‘

May 11,12, or 13. The decision is up to you, Helen.

(1) Many thanks to the visiting Lynchburg Col-
lege girls for the entertainment.

Q Popping your collar is not a sound fashion
statement.

Q Aqua socks are not cute at all.

Q Why are there so many pictures of the girl in
the'black and green polka dot dress at Kite and
Key on Party Pics?

Q For the guy looking over my shoulder this
weekend, my PIN number is 4612.

Q Don’t forget Mother’s Day.

Q I took $1 1 to the State last night expecting to

get a Coke and a ticket, but was wrong.

proﬁts will go to beneﬁt the Cystic Fibrosis Foun-
dation.

Cystic Fibrosis is an incurable genetic dis-
ease that affects almost 30,000 adults and chil-
dren in the United States. Money raised for the
Foundation supports research and more than 117
certiﬁed care centers around the nation that pro-
vide physicians, nurses, therapy, and treatment
to those living with the disease.

W&L’s Ball is one of hundreds of events held
during May nationwide to support the Foundation.

(1) Kudos to all the winning sports teams, men’s
tennis, women’s tennis, baseball, men’s lacrosse
and women’s lacrosse. Keep it going!

Q W&L undergrads now have their own 30-
year-old. Happy belated Birthday to Ethan.

Q Isn’t it terribly unfair to have two rainy Spring
Terms in a row?

Q Congratulations to the whizzes that de-
cided not to move the Saturday night alumni
party from the Front Lawn to the Warner Cen-
ter. Trying to eat, drink and stay dry was quite
an adventure.

Q Who is the student always sitting in her yel-
low Mini in front of Gaines?

Q Ha! Take that, All No one is listening to Air
America. Limbaugh is king!

Q Blue hair? Isn’t that for old women? Who
says W&L isn’t diverse?

(1) You're spot on! The Orbit gum girl is
smokin’!

<1)

of Alumni
phi@ wlu.edu.

Send your anonymous Quick Hits and tales
Weekend embarrassments to

 

not, but it was cool nonetheless. Seriously though,
he is an expert on his subject matter as well, and is
one of the most entertaining professors I’ve ever
had.
5. Professor Dennis Garvis—Management.
Professor Garvis is pretty much strictly C-school.
He teaches Strategic Man-
agement (the C—school
capstone) as well as Statis-
tics and E-commerce Man-
agement (that I’m taking right
now). The best thing I liked
about Professor Garvis’s
' teaching style is fairness. He
has an excellent ability to lis-
ten to students, encourage
discussion, and then he can explain an issue with
a degree of knowledge, intelligence and under-
standing that reﬁects a very high intellect, while
still being able to explain things at a level a stu-
dent can understand. He represents the epitome
in catering to an audience in that he is able to use
language and examples as needed, depending
upon the knowledge and experiences of his audi-
ence, in order to clearly and succinctly get his
point across.
And there you have it. The five best profes-
sors I’ve had at W&L. While four out of ﬁve are
technically C—school professors, many of the
classes they teach are practical real-world applica-
tions that would sincerely beneﬁt any student ven-
turing out into the working world after graduation.
After all, that is what we’re here for, right? Prepara-
tion for the real world? I’ll let you know in a couple
of years.

What did? W&L
do to my baby?

During my son’s junior year (2002) at
Washington & Lee, I decided to subscribe to
the Ring-Tum Phi in hopes to be educated on
current events on campus. I was enjoying the
weekly issues until the end of September when
I was faced with the first article written by my
son, Tim T. Smith (aka Absolut Fratlord). His
first column was an exclusive feature on The
Colonnade

Garvis

‘Club (the "1" FRATLORD’s MOM
timate hook-
ing-up club). MARY LOU SMITH
What an ice-

breaker! This article left me more educated than
I cared to be.

Though I told myself that this article was
just an isolated incident and don’t expect more
stories to follow from my own pride and joy of a
son. I must have been in a temporary state of
denial because the column has continued for
almost two years including a columnist award
to boot.

How has the mom of the Absolut Fratlord
learned to cope with her son who has gained
copious amounts of fortune cookie wisdom dur-
ing his glory days riding the Greek Central rail
in the infamous Lex Vegas?

Coping Strategies-—

Validating Feelings: Wake up husband
and father of the Fratlord in the wee hours with
exclamations that he has quoted us again and
this carmot be our son writing these articles.

Self—Mutilation: Pulling out the gray hairs
that have multiplied since the Fratlord has hit
the presses. ‘

genetic disposition for Fratlordness through the
gene pool that has raised it’s hairy head.

Disassociation: Try to disassociate one-
self from the Fratlord, but instead ﬁnding noto-
riety by being name tagged on parent’s week-
end as “Mother of the Absolut Fratlord”.

Join the Club: If you can’t beat it, join it.
Learn the Lex language.

Hooking-up

Lex Vegas

Greek Central

Frat Cups

Independents

The Dating Rules (Area Codes, Importing)

Living for Spring Term

Fratlordness is a product of his previous envi-
ronments or associations.

The dungeon at Gilliam lllwith Denbow.

The debauchery at the Lambda Chi house
with Early and fellow frat brothers.

The Pit on Randolph St. with Mcllroy and Ali

Or just too many theme parties!

Well, whatever caused his evolution from
a high school geek to the Absolut Fratlord will
never be fully understood. I can say, though,
that Lex Vegas will never be the same after the
likes of this wild and wonderful West Virginian,
Tim T. Smith (Absolut Fratlord ‘04) ends his
column that always expresses the wisdom that
he gained from somewhere other than me.

I am anxious to read the last of his ar-
ticles and hope that he can pass this baton
on to another highly qualified candidate
whose parents can share in this life changing
metamorphosis.

  

 
 

Research Family Tree: Maybe there is a V

Blame the Environment: Maybe the . I

