 

<

$331,?’ 755
£051
Va '0'’.-
V1 6:2 9

(I.

2.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

  THE RING=TUM PHI-

MONDAY, MARC_H 21,2005

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLUME Qlldlll, NUMBERS‘

WHAT’S INSIDE

 

Glamour at the gala _

The motown music blared, the
sarcophaguses shone, students were
breakin’ it down with the Pharaohs at
this year’s Fancy Dress Ball. Check
out party pics on page 4.

Relax, the lax team’s doin’ fine
Six straight wins in a row may
suggest the women’s lacrosse team is
doing much better than just ﬁne.
Catch up with these victorious
women on page 3.

Staged for success

After weeks of preparation, the
theater department puts out a
provocative and witty selection of
one act plays. See page 5 for a sneak
peek.

~ HOT TICKET

 

Hello, Clarice...

Spine-tingling thriller “Silence of the
Lambs” will run in the Cornrnns
theater Wed., March 23, at 7:00 p.m.
Guaranteed to keep you on the edge
of your seat.

Sundaes at the gallery

From the tenured art majors to the
newly—discovered freshmen, our art
students have pulled their favorite
masterpieces! Come browse their
work in Dupont’s art gallery on Wed.,
March 23, from 3:15-4:45 p.m. And
no, your sweet tooth won’t be
neglected -- ice cream sundaes will
be served.

Java and jazz

Unwind to the music of James Leva,
‘80, and Danny Knicely at Commons.
Grounds: an Acoustic Coffeehouse in
the Commons living room on Fri.
March 25 from 8-11 p.m.

Last chance!

Come one, come all, it’s your last
chance to hear the University Jazz
Ensemble before they’re on the road
for their tour! Catch them at the
Lenfest Center on Tues. March 22 at
8 p.m.

Ho|lywood’s latest heist

An all-star cast, a riveting plot,
stunning scenery -- what more can
you ask of a good action movie? The
entire cast of “Oceans 11” returns
along with Catherine Zeta-Jones in
“Oceans 12,” which will be running
in the Commons theater at 9:30 pm.
on Tues. March 22, Thurs. March 24,
and Fri. March 25.

 

QUICK POLL

Q: Will student
administration of honor
system remain safe

in the coming years?

 

54 students polled, 28 male, 28 female Poll has 90%
confidence in a +/A 5% margin oi error

Athletic facilities revamped 

By Chris Lauderman
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

A new ﬁeld house, aquatic center
and a renovation for Wilson Field headline
the athletic report of the strategic plan.

The athletics task force, composed '

of seven subcommittees, has ambitious
goals for the university.

“It is critical to understand the ﬁrlly
vested interest in the educational goals of
W&L,” said Mike Walsh, Executive
Athletic Director and Chair of Physical
Education and Athletics.

The proposed ﬁeld house would
house an indoor track and provide other
indoor recreational opportunities. This
space would hold Mock Convention,
Fancy Dress Ball and commencement in
the event of rain, rather than Cameron Hall
at VMI.

Walsh called the ﬁeld house “much
needed.” .

“We have had to shut down our
enterprise for three days [for Fancy
Dress],” Walsh said.

Provost Tom Williams echoed
Walsh.

“We would have loved to have had
it ﬁve years ago,” Williams said.

The new facility could end up being
located across from the baseball ﬁeld
where the Physical Plant currently has a
storage facility. That storage facility could
be relocated behind The Liberty Hall ruins,
the current site of a dump that has also
served as the staging area for construction
companies.

W&L, VMI and the community are
all in need of an aquatic center. Talks are
underway with VMI to see if a joint
venture is the best way to proceed.

The current pool at W&L is aging
quickly. This year has already seen an
electrical ﬁre as a result of old wiring.
Proposed sites include under the Cadaver
Footbridge or a mutual location between
W&L and VMI.

The future of Wilson Field rests in
the hands of the master planner. Two

‘options face the current facility. First,

since the track and ﬁeld are new, the

The bleachers at Wilson Field are showing their age. A new stadium, which mayor may not be located in the
same location as the current one will be built out of brick reflecting a style more characteristic of a W&L facility.

bleachers could be taken out and replaced
with a brick stadium with wrought iron
gates, something a little more
characteristic of the university.

Second, the master planner may

[decide that the current Wilson Field would

be the perfect location to build new dorms
to replace Graham Lees and BDG. Wilson
ﬁeld would then be moved to a new
location in the back of campus.

The Doremus Gynmasium, built in
1915, and the Warner Center both are in
need of renovation. Expect to see a new
training room, air conditioning in all the
locker rooms and new bleachers in the
Warner Center.

Other proposed ideas include
changing the physical education general

education requirement. In addition to
basic skills classes such as basketball and
tennis, students would get to choose to
take lifestyle improvement and healthy
living classes.

As of next year, club sports and
intramurals are being shifted to the Dean
of Students office. It will be under the
Outing Club’s jurisdiction.

One task force subcommittee
investigated internal administration and
another looked over ﬁnance. __

Recruitment was anotherissue
addressed by the strategic plan.

“We want to guard against a
subculture of athletes,” Walsh said.

Walsh thinks that W&L has done a
good job to this point. Over 100 athletes

had a GPA of 3.5 or higher in the fall term.

Walsh said a goal was to have every
team play for league championships. He
also wants to make sure every sport team
has good facilities.

The ODAC, W&L’s conference, is
also viewed as a hurdle to overcome.

“We are not in a conference of like-
minded institutions,” Walsh said. “But we
are a victim of geography.”

Changing conferences would mean
increased travel time, which will raise
costs arid cause students to miss classes.

Two other goals include looking
into having the program endowed and
forming a tighter relationship with the
bookstore, which could‘ market more
sports merchandise.

Contact announces
upcoming speakers

By Sarah Murray
NEWS EDITOR

An FBI criminal proﬁler, a record-
setting speed climber and political activist
Ralph Nader will all visit campus before
the year ends. The three lectures will wrap
up the schedule of speakers sponsored by
the Contact Committee this year.

John Douglas, the only speaker
remaining before spring break, will speak
on “The Real Silence of the Lambs”
Thursday, March 24. Douglas, an FBI
criminal proﬁler, was the model for the
character of Jack Crawford in the movie
The Silence of the Lambs, which will be
screened in the Elrod Commons theater
the night before his lecture.

The Outing Club is also working
with Contact to bring Hans Florine, a
leading speed-climber, to campus April 19.
Florine has broken all manner of records
in climbing. The Outing Club hopes to

use this event to kick off the Spring Term

and to encourage students to take

advantage of outdoor activities available .

in Lexington, such as rock-climbing and
canoeing. -

The main event of Spring Term,
however, will be the lecture by “consumer
advocate,” Ralph Nader. A candidate in the
presidential campaigns of 2000 and 2004,
Nader will speak in Lee Chapel May 6.

According to Contact Publicity
Chair David Kronenfeld, the cost of
booking Nader is $15,000. But the
Contact Committee members decided that
the price was worth it.

“Not everyone on the committee
necessarily agrees with him, but he’s going
to be a good speaker nonetheless,”
Kronenfeld said.

Other luminaries brought to campus
in years past include author Kurt
Vonnegut, political humorist P.J.
O’Rourke, Watergate “plumber” G.
Gordon Liddy, and Supreme Court Justice
Sandra Day O’Connor.

    

TEACHERSCHOLASTIOCOM

Political Activist Ralph Nader.

 

GFIEATESTTALENTCOM

FBI criminal profiler John Douglas.

 

HANSFLOFIINE COM

Speed climber Hans Florine.

 

 - THE RING-TUM PHI

y‘-rant‘:'A'A‘A‘A'A'A'A'A'A'-‘A\l'n‘A'A"A'A'A'A'A'A'n'A-an-up-"4-A-A-A-n-Aumum-X-A-Am-xv.-rrna-Av;-.n-4'A~A'numm-ramwarm‘;'4-A'a'.n-rA'rAa'rA'a-‘wavy.
I l
i
l
1
l
l
l
l

. — ’G.iEYi;ll.!_i3.!\l ursn-W W _ __ _ _ g

‘-1,’: ',‘--n1-r+%:K‘l
, .. A

   

MR 2 22305

IIBWS

 

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

By Sonia Siu

STAFF WFI ITER

Last weekend, whi‘ ‘ some st ients
were at initiation and others were sleeping,
one fraternity on campus decided to‘ give
back to their community. Last weekend,
one sorority and a campus organization
furthered Kappa Sigma’s efforts by
continuing the rebuilding of Lexington’s
Skate Park. Theta and Young Life spent
the morning of Fancy Dress restoring the
rotten wood that Kappa Sigma brothers
had removed, and then repainting it.

According to Mary Harvey, work on

I this skatepark started ten years ago, when
fundraising and meetings with the city of
Lexington ﬁrst took place. Harvey IS one
of two coordinators working on the project
this year. She is a piano teacher in
Lexington and she has remained

_ committed to maintaining and building the
new pieces needed for this community
park.

Warren Meehan, the second
coordinator, is a Washington and Lee
alumnus from the class of 2000. He is

_ currently an Americorps volunteer with the
Rockbridge Area Habitat for Humanity,
and prior to this he served for two years in

" the Republic’ of Moldova as a Peace Corps

7' volunteer.

'1 “We are both really committed to

‘- working with teenagers and helping them

'4' express themselves through skating and

V giving them a safe option for fun with the

' skatepark here in Lexington,” says

" Mer in. “We also ﬁnd it -eally im* ortant

4' that local students and volunteers invest

; themselves in the community.”

‘-‘ Tom Borda, a junior Kappa Sigma

5 who coordinated his group, expressed that

’ “we genuinely enjoyed the service event,

7' and we were very glad to help out Warren

_ and Mary with the skatepark renovation.”

“'1 He said the event was a good bonding

‘ experience for his brothers.

cv

.,4

-oz

ca «v=2ers@wlu.edu
http://careers.w|u.edu

Class of 2008

Parents asking about your MAJOR?
Friends asking about your summer PLAN S??
Starting to worry that you should already know the
answers to those questions???

Be the most prepared class of all.
Attend the

Freshman Meeting

‘ Ttiésgi7ay;ivarehr22nd 

7.00. p.m., Con .. nons Theatre
Sponsored by

AREER
‘t&’As‘r»z1Nc;'1‘<.>_N AM") 1,152; {.§:«:tvrs:‘:rsrir*i*
J ERVICES

Sonia Siu I Staff Photographer

Kappa Sigma, Kappa Alpha Theta, Young Life and other students spent the Saturday morning of Fancy Dress renovating
the skate park in Lexington. Construction started 10 years ago and new pieces continue to be added to the park.

Reeves Center
plans “A Cel-
ebration of
Japanese 'Art”

News Ofﬁce
PRESS RELEASE

During tne montu of March the
departments of art, East Asian languages
and literature, and the Reeves Center at
will present “A Celebration of Japanese

“Japanese Garden Design,’f the
final lecture in the four part series will be
given by Marc Peter Keane, garden
designer and Cornell University visiting
scholar, on Monday, March 28 at 7:30
p.m. in the DuPont Hall Auditorium.

All aspects of the series are open to
the public and free of charge.

Keane, a gradu;,..e of Cornell
University’s department of landscape
architecture, has been living and working
in Kyoto Japan since 1985. His primary
design work consists of garden design for
residences, company grounds and temples
as well as larger scale design projects for
parks and historic districts.

An educator as well as a designer,
Keane is a lecturer in the department of
environmental design at the Kyoto
University of Arts and Design and a
research fellow at the Research Center for
Japanese Garden Art.

Keane’s published writings include
“Japanese Garden Design,” which
explains Japanese design elements
.situated it in the cultural background, and
a translation of the “Sakuteiki,” Japan’s
thousand year old treatise on gardening.

Keane is also the chairman of Kyoto
Ivritate Intemauonal, an iinemational iron-
proﬂt organization working to preserve
and revitalize Kyoto’s traditional
environments.

Complementing the lecture series,
an exhibition of Japanese prints loaned
from Sebastian Izzard Art, LLC, will be
on display in the Reeves Center on
campus from March 7 through March 31.

 

    
   

 

    

    
iwﬁﬁﬁﬁ

 



458-9595 ‘ .

   

' : 'eat.a'r.rnn?:. :2?!“  "

h  ;ea §5i:°'it5s”§g"

 gag; gigﬁﬁ-'-fgggz *w,§§=15r:: .,;gi=ms§: ;:I§,i‘3t3=%=3.fr.7?!’ 

 _j«’+i'£fi% _.ii*‘§'‘iin:;+.~’_'§~*‘ 3%:
_ u.§'.l,i§i'&i"ii’l"?"K3°. '.

  

'* : it-2 r:r1:':7r3:a”

 
 

“L t’l‘iﬂ?iE%i‘i‘Zi.*' 

 

 

‘V

«<

(2

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 3

  S00! 18

 

TH|S‘WEEK

TUESDAY, MARCH 22
-Baseball vs. Shenandoah 3:00
-Women’s LAX vs. Bridgewater 4:00

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23
-Baseball at Bridgewater 3:00
-Men’s Tennis at Mary Wash 3:00
-Women’s LAX vs. Williams 4:00

FRIDAY, MARCH 25
-Track Mary Wash Relays 3:00

SATURDAY, MARCH 25

IBaseball vs. Va Wesleyan 12:00
-Men’s LAX Lynchburg 1:30
-Women’s LAX vs. Va Wesleyan 2:00
IMen’s Tennis vs. Swathmore 11:00
-Track Mary Wash Relays 9:00

SPORTS BRIEFS

Ginder Earns All-America Honors
at NCAA Championships (3/19)
Washington and Lee sophomore
Michael Ginder (Jacksonville, Fla./
Episcopal) earned Honorable Mention
All-America accolades in the 100-
yard freestyle on Saturday evening at
the 2005 NCAA Division III Men’s
Swimming Championships held at
Hope College.

W&L Golf Team In Fourth Place
After Day Two of Golden Isle
Invitational (3/19)

The Washington and Lee golf team
sits in fourth place out of 24 teams
after day two of the Golden Isle
Invitational in Jekyll Island, Ga. The
Generals shot a 294 and have a two-
day total of 596 (302-294). Freshman
Steven Spivey ﬁred a 72 and leads the
tournament by three strokes with a

total score of 141 (69-72).

W&L Outdoor Track In Action at
Roanoke Invitational (3/19)

The Washington and Lee outdoor
track and ﬁeld teams competed at the
Roanoke Invitational on Saturday
afternoon in Salem, Va. The Generals
set three school records and had six
top three ﬁnishes.

W&L Men’s Tennis Defeats
Eastern Mennonite, 7-0 (3/17)
The 10th-ranked Washington and Lee
men’s tennis improved to 10-4
overall, 6-0 in the ODAC with a 7-0
victory over Eastern Mennonite on

Thursday afternoon in Harrisonburg,
Va.

W&L Women’s Tennis Defeats
Bridgewater and Eastern
Mennonite, 9-0 (3/18)

The third-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team remained perfect
at 13-0 overall and 10-0 in the ODAC
with 9-0 victories over Bridgewater
and Eastern Mennonite on Friday
afternoon.

W&L Men’s Lacrosse Falls to
Mary Washington, 9-6 (3/19)

The University of Mary Washington
scored six consecutive goals over the
second and third periods en route to a
9-6 victory over ﬁfth-ranked
Washington and Lee in men’s lacrosse
action on Saturday afternoon in
Fredericksburg, Va.

Women’slax wins sixth straight

By Marshall Rule
MANAGING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team won a thriller against Mary
Washington Saturday afternoon.

Mary Washington jumped out to an
ear1y_lead after three quick goals in the
ﬁrst half. But thanks to six straight goals
by the Generals, W&L was able to
overcome the early deﬁcit.

Junior midﬁelder Kate Lester led
the team with four goals and sophomore
midfielder Maggie Megear added the
remaining three.

Going into the game, the 18”‘ ranked

Generals were slight underdogs to the 11"‘
ranked Eagles. But that didn’t seem»to
faze the Generals, who were able to hold
off a second half run of three straight
goals. By the time regulation had ended,
W&L was on top 7-6.

Freshman goalkeeper Sarah Tilbor
tallied 11 saves in the game. Avery
Lovejoy and Erin Rathbone each added
an assist.

The game was a welcome change
from the mud bath that the Generals played
on in Guilford Wednesday.

The game, which was called with
just under ten to go in the second half due
to poor weather conditions, was
dominated by the Generals. Avery

Lovej oy led the team and tied a career high
of ﬁve goals.

The Generals started off the game
with a quick three goal lead thanks to
consecutive goals by Lester.

In the course of the game six W&L
players scored a goal including Kelly
Evans ,who scored two. Christine Bender,
Mallory Lobisser, and Natalya Hoobchaak
also each added a goal.

The ﬁeld was a muddy mess and
players were glad to see the game called,
especially considering the Generals were
on top when it was called.

The Generals will be looking for
another win against Bridgewater at home
Tuesday afternoon.

  

 

STAFF PHOT RAPHEFI

 

The Generals lacrosse team won its fifth straight one goal victory Wednesday afternoon. Gavin Molinelli scored four goals
against Greensboro in the 11-10 victory. The Generals’ five game winning streak ended Saturday in a disappointing 9-6 loss
against Mary Washington. W&L hopes to get back on track when they host Lynchburg Saturday afternoon.

Generals Baseball sweeps double header

By Sports Release
SPORTS INFORMATION

The Washington and Lee baseball
team pounded out 36 hits and scored 27
runs in a double header sweep of ODAC-
foe Eastern Mennonite on Saturday
afternoon in Harrisonburg, Pa. The
Generals won the opener, 11-1, and took
the second game, 16-4.

In game one, the Generals (19-4, 7-
2) took a 2-0 lead in the top of the first
inning on a two-run single by senior
catcher Zach Bausch. The Royals (6-10,
0-4) got one run back in thelbottom of the
inning on an RBI ground out by junior
catcher Kenny Riley.

W&L increased its lead to 3-1 after
four innings before scoring ﬁve runs in
the ﬁfth and three more in the sixth inning
to take an 11-1 advantage.

  ‘

Junior first baseman Taylor
McConnell and sophomore right ﬁelder
Richard Garland hit back—to-back home
runs in the three-run sixth inning.

Bausch went 4-for-5 at the plate
with three RBI, while McConnell batted
3-for-5 with three runs. On the mound,
sophomore right hander Clayton Edwards
pitched his fourth complete game of the
season. He allowed one run on four hits
with two strikeouts to pick up the win.

For the Royals, junior center ﬁelder
Cole Thornton went 1-for-4 with a run,
while senior pitcher T.J. Frazier gave up
10 runs on 13 hits with two strikeouts in
5.1 innings to suffer the loss (2-3).

In game two, W&L surged out to a

13-0 lead after three innings en route to’

the 12-run win. The Generals plated ﬁve
in the first inning, six in the second and
two more in the third.

Senior left ﬁelder Chris Chaplin

smacked a two-run double in the first
inning, while McConnell hit a two-run
triple and sophomore second baseman
David Miller connected on a two-run
single in the second inning.

Eastern Mennonite scored three of
its four rims in the fifth inning with two
runs coming on a double by senior
designated hitter Chad Thornton.

Miller batted 4-for-5 with a double,
two runs and three RBI, while senior third
baseman Adam Bullock went 3-for-6 at
the plate with a double and two runs. On
the hill, sophomore left hander Johnson
Brownlow gave up three rims on eight hits
and struck out six over six innings to earn

‘the win (4-0).

Thornton ﬁnished 1-for-5 with a
double and two RBI, while junior Casey
Armstrong batted 2-for-3 with a run.
Junior Drew Cobb allowed 10 runs on nine
hits in 1.2 innings to take the loss (1-1).

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free (yes,
free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1,000-$2,000 in
earnings for your group. Call TODAY for a $450 bonus
when you schedule your non-sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact CampusFundraiser, (888)
1 923-3238.

1999 IIutIiII40uatIro

IIM radio, 12 on changer. good condition.
$11,500. Ball 261-5598.

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa Rica. 110%
Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
endIesssummertours.com

LIFEGUAFIDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 Nova areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visitwebsite!
www.premier411.com

1 877 SEE POOL

 

W&L Track
team breaks
three records

Sports Release
SPORTS INFORMATION

The Washington and Lee outdoor
track and ﬁeld teams competed at the
Roanoke Invitational on Saturday
afternoon in Salem, Va. The Generals set
three school records and had six top three
fniishes.

In the women’s meet, W&L was led
by freshman Elizabeth Brandler who set
two school records. She won the triple
jump with a school-record jump of 34’ 4
3/4". Brandler also placed second in the
pole vault by clearing a school-record and
NCAA qualifying height of 11’2”. It was
also the top vault by any freshman in the
nation this season.

Sophomore Sara Behmerwohld
won the 400-meter hurdles in a school-
record time of 1:08.27, while ﬁnishing
third in the 100-meter hurdles (16.80).
Sophomore Huntley Rodes placed third in
both the triple jump (32’ 5 1/2”) and 400-
meter hurdles (1 : 12.78).

In the men’s meet, sophomore Ryan
Edge placed fourth in the high jump with
a jump of 5’8”. Freshman Alex Mahoney
finished ﬁfth in the 1500 meters (4: 19.46),
while classmate Tom Brower was sixth in
a time of 4:22.25.

In the 800 meters-, freshman Jack
Jeong placed sixth in a time of 2:06.82.

On Friday night, the Generals were
in action at the VCU Ram Invitational
where they competed against Division I,

9H and III competition.

In the men’s meet, senior Steve
Chambers placed first among Division III
competitors in the 5000 meters in a time
of 15:42.22. Senior Chris Walker was third
among Division HI athletes in the hammer
throw (98’0”).

  

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knihing Specialty Shop
273 Rapliine Road
Raphiiie, VA 24472
540-348-5220 0 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek .
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Callforworksltopclzdssinfoiniatlon.

 
 
     
   
    
      
  

Halfway between lzxinglon and Stauuton
On I81 /I-64 at exit 205. Raphlnr. 4rnile.r war! on
Route 606. Raphine RM /M/P!/W a working
farm that ojfers "U-PICK" opponunities for frrsh
fruit when in season

Tiles - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
m 

  

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHl

MONDAY,MARCH 21,2005

Kristine

  She still, llOLU€t/‘QT,

/ gentlemen. l l<.'.l0V./ j/("H :Ipr:-’t,‘, 35‘

Phattvs by Cumin Biacktord.
Stephen ="*ar§s~.es;, Jon Rogers
;-int! Eiiralreth Eckman

 
 

1. Students walk up the ;'c«’ carpet into the Warner Center for FD. 2. Students party “in the shadow of the spinx” in the
big gym. 3. Stmlents posedfor pictures all night with the re—creati0n ofthe Sphinx. 4. Egyptian cut—0uts covered both
gyms and the campus all week. 5. Students are shown jamming to the hip—hop tunes which were played all night in the
small gym. 6. Camels, such as these, lined the walls of the gym which was transformed into an‘Egyptian desert.

Students danced
the night away

Fancy Dress Ball
“In the Shadow

at the 98th

of the Sphinx”

 
  
  
  
    

rt’

*3

Q...

warships the sippy

cup and amaretto and diet coke

By Kristine Early
MILK-AND-CHEESE GIRL

Since arriving at W & L (minus my
stint with mono). I have been telling
myself that it was perfectly !‘.4,)!‘t?i}ll to gs;

' out drinking Monday, Wednesday, I*ri,tlay,

and Saturday. After all, I have never
missed a class, I have never missed a
workout at the gym, I l'.:..w xv.-v ;-§.ipp:;;T
a reading assigmnent. and I Ira-.-t; never‘
stopped participating and listening in
class. I have prided myself on It-sing a
functional alcoholic Ladies and

v j ll.”

 

funniest thing your very own Milk and
Cheese Girl has written all year. And the
most pathetic.

A trip to the hospital didn’t do
anything to jar my mentality. Alchol.edu
(really the most worthless program ever)
-_lidi1’t either. Neither did the educational
pamphlets, nor my parents constant
worrying. No. Three long talks with great
ads, an a‘-:‘::.u1‘<l situation and a look in
the mirror at my tear stained face is exactly
what it took.

I miss the old Milk and Cheese Girl
who liked to party but had just as much
Bur »<c,t,\e; (so muclr fun, llmt some people

 

assumed she was drunk). I miss that good
old Wisconsin girl that never minded a
night curled up in bed with a good movie
and a bag of Orville Redenbacher (Think
I’ll get a few free bags, Hugh?). I miss
that Midwestemer that looked at the world
with wonder and awe rather than
skepticism and cynicism. Cause that blue
eyed, 5, brunette was pretty damn
awesome, ifl do say so myself. That
girl...that girl could look in the mirror and
say: like the person I am, and I love the
person I becoming. (Or ala Saturday
Night Live: “I’m good enough, I’m smart
enough, and doggone it, people like me!
No, this doesn’t mean I am going
.to stop going out altogether. I still heart
amaretto and diet coke. I still worship the

sippy cup. And nothing is better than a ‘

good game ofbeirvi:.. But as much fun as

cirrhosis of the liver would be, I think the
era of Kristine, the functional alcoholic
has come to its conclusion. It has been an
interesting and yes, an often enjoyable
ride. But I know that if I stay on it, I
headed for a headﬁrst crash.

Let me clarify something: I am not
trying to preach. I am certainly in NO
position to. NO POSITION. Yes, I sure I
1 hit up the keg a few more times than I
should and make a spectacle of myself one
or two more times throughout my college
career (heck, probably spring term). And
you can laugh your head off at me. That
okay. I am young, and I want to have fun.
I just don ’t want to compromise that good
old farm girl anymore (okay, I live in a
city of 60,000).

Last night, I arrived at FD with a
BAC‘. of .00. l remember whom I talked

strives up being “functiona alcoholic”

to, what we said, what people were
wearing, and which songs were playing.
And you know what, that’s pretty damn
rewarding.

Besides, I’ve never needed to drink
to make a fool out of myself. I am a klutz
on my own accord. No help required there.
I can put my foot in my mouth all by my

. self. It is a skill. And, heck,I\was sober

and I still did he sprinkler.

So, if you see me out and aboutirr
the next few weeks, my sippy cup really
will be ﬁlled with just diet coke or just
water. And yes, I do dance like that when

. I’m sober.

1 really think my liver is going to
thank me for this. .

Oh, and no, in case you were
wondering, the deans did not fund this
article (on my honor).

 

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

“The purpose of life is to ﬁght maturity.”

— Dick Werthimer

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

To Cadet orFrat? That is the question

By Lauren Sapikowski
STAFF WRITER

My name is Lauren Sapikowski,
and I have an addiction... men in
uniform. It must be in my blood, after all
both of my grandfathers, one uncle were
service men and my older brother is in
the Army. Whatever the reason, I am a
sucker for a man in uniform, which can
cause a world of problems. We live right
next door to a mass of military men, but
not all of us actually connect with them.

Herein lies the problem, all of my
VMI friends think that there is some
divide between W&L and VMI so they
import women from, say, Hollins. These
imports are not exactly loved by
Washington and Lee girls, for obvious
reasons. '

I have to at this point tell all of
the W&L men that importing women to
go to forrnals and mixers is about as rude
as it gets, so thanks for the slap in the
face.

Anyway, at VMI this importing A

actually makes some sense. Let’s face it,
VMI cadets are isolated: they have
curfew, they mostly reside at City Steaks,
and very few actually bother to go to frat
parties because they don’t quite ﬁt in.

Since women tend to be creatures
of habit, we meet men at parties at the
fraternities, thus limiting our ability to
connect with VMI, not to mention that
the only other place to ﬁnd them since
the Palms strike is at the Mirage which is
closed off to those of us under 21. Since
VMI still has to get dates, importing rears
its ugly head to save our gallant VMI
men.

This is not to say that"the girls at
W&L don’t date cadets, believe me, they
are our best option (mostly because they
actually date). The real issue is that we
have to actually meet cadets to date them.
In my experience, you only have to meet
one and that one will get you into the web
of connections.

For those of you who are not sure
how to do that, there are two basic options
to meeting a cadet. First, you can have a
ﬁiend who has VMI connections help you
out. To be honest, though, this is more a

way to meet friends than to date anyone.
If you want a date, you have to cross the
line.

That’s right, ladies, actually go to
VMI; maybe for a play or to see the VMI
parade. I have to tell you that these cadets
tend to be wary of crossing into W&L
territory, because they are locked up in a
cage mostly consisting of men.

Some are afraid of seeming too
forward, some don’t realize when they are
being too forward. I am a big fan of the
woman being in control of a relationship,
but when you are interested in a cadet, you
have to be in control to start off with
because they don’t want to offend.

These are actual real-life
gentleman, and if you want to ﬁgure out
what they think of you, you have to be
direct. Having given that advice, please
don’t “pull a Lauren” and do something
rash, like I would do. For example, asking
a cadet if you are allowed to kiss him will

intimidate him. So, ﬁnd the ﬁne line
between the two, and have fun.

Now that you have actually read the
article, I’m certain you want to know why
you should look at the men in uniform for
a change. My ﬁrst advice is to just look at
the guys at Washington & Lee.

While there are deﬁnitely some
amazing guys here, they are outweighed
by the mass of boys who wear the same
clothes twice a week and would never ask
a woman on a date, because they would
rather hookup without the extra eﬂbrt.

I will be the ﬁrst to admit that these
types of men can be charming... I have
deﬁnitely been kissing one (don’t’ worry,
he ’s ROTC, my addiction remains intact).
In my case, I met a charming one, but just
a wolf in sheep’s clothing. In the end, if

they can hook up with you one night and _

with another girl the next, they will. Mine
certainly did, and that is where the problem
with W&L men is — there are so many that

I have to at this point tell all of the W&L men that importing women to
go to formats and mixers is about as rude as it gets, so thanks for the

slap in the face.

 

A Preview of the 2005 One Acts

By Kate Shellnutt

STAFF WRITER

Already claimed to be “too hot
to handle,” the 2005 One Acts will hit
the stage to prove if they’ve got the heat
starting this Friday, March 25, and
running through Wednesday, March 30,
all at 8 pm at the Lenfest Center. The
nights alternate groups of 3_completely
student—run performances, with Bill A
including “Bunnies,” “American
Tropical,” and “The Intervention,” and
Bill B “The Night No One Died,” “The
Bone Violin,” and “Porcelain and
Pink.”

Because students select which
plays are performed and exactly how they
are presented, the One Acts provide an
opportunity for creativity. ,

“The One Acts are entirely done
by students: light design, directing,acting
and tech. While students usually play a
prominent role, the One Acts make a
particular difference because we try to
hold it all up on our own. It’s an amazing
learning experience,” said'“Bunnies”
stage manager Lauren Sapikowski ’08.

The range of subject matter, genre,
and mood also sets the One Acts apart.

“This year ’s directors chose a wide
variety of plays,” said “The Night No One
Died” lighting designer Kristine Holda
’O6. “The One Acts as a whole are very
involved, whether it be in plot, emotional,
or design aspects. Each play has
something that it focuses heavily on.”

“Bunnies,” written by Michael
O’Brien and directed by Lanier Brooks

HOTEL RWANDA

language." 122 minutes.)

A VER Y LONG ENGA GEMEN T

(France, 2004), directed by Jean—Pierre Jeunet i
Set in France during World War I, this highly creative work from the makers of Ame/ie has a
deceptively simple kernel: A young man, disillusioned with the conflict, disappears into the mindless
savagery of trench warfare and military bureaucracy,
ﬁnd him. However, in the hands of director/screenwr
complex and quirky amble, complete with eccentric c
, incongruously in the carnage of war—time France. The Wa// Stneetjourrra/s reviewer wrote that this (In Eng
ght—hearted way that Ame/its did, but it will make you feel
deeply, about love and war. Rapturously beautiful, §bmn ~wmmm.mx
ﬁlm employs many of the techniques that were used so pleasingly in Amelie.”  F ’
(In French, with English subtitles. Rated “R” by the MPAA for violence and sexuality. 134 minutes.)

film “won't make you feel good in the ll

’06, tells the story of Playboy mogul Hugh
Hefner to start off the first bill.

“It’s a comedy piece looking at a
possible way that Hugh Hefner started
on his road to fame. It’s set in the 50’s
and its very progressive, and it looks at
all of Hugh’s eccentricities,” said
Sapikowski.

“American Tropical,” written by
Richard Ford and directed by Lisa Baratta
‘O6, follows the life of a female murderer

“It’s really about one woman and
her struggle after committing a murder.
The other two characters support her, and
she supports them. It is a very interesting
situation on the stage,” said Baratta. “It’s
a somber piece with not a lot going on
other than the dialogue. The audience is
the listener to whom the character is
crying out for help.” V

“The Intervention,” written by
Anne Washbiirn and directed by Paige
Smith ’06, follows a group preparing to
hold an intervention for a friend.

“Paige Smith as director has
brought out the humor found in these six
kooky characters as they attempt a very
serious situation,” said stage manager
Michael Wagoner ‘07

“The Night No One Died,” written
by Shawn Overton and directed by Ligia
Abreu ’06, provides a not-your-average
murder mystery to begin the second bill.

“Basically, six people are thrown
together in a situation that should
obviously lead to a murder mystery: tl1ere’s
a mysterious hostess, a sexy widow, a
nerdy professor, a crooked businessman,
a French maid, and a detective, but instead

Washin ton & Lee Film Socie

Spring 2005

, April 22 & 23
(Canada/United Kingdom, 2004), directed by Terry George
An intemationallyacclaimed drama set during the savage genocide in Rwanda in 1994.

Academy Award nominee Don Cheadle stars as Paul Rusesabagina, the Hutu owner of a hotel in .
Kigali, a man who is slow to recognize evil, but who rises to the occasion when very few others will.
This is not an overtly graphic ﬁlm (note its rating) -- it does not focus on depictions of acts of
violence - but it is emotionally intense. A reviewer in the New i’ork1”Imes wrote that this is “a
political thriller based on fact that hammers every button on the emotional console. At the very least,
this wrenching ﬁlm performs the valuable service of lending a human face to an upheaval so savage
it seemed beyond the realm of imagination when news of it ﬁltered into the West.”

(In English. Rated “PG-13” by the MPAA “

April 29 & 30

iter Jeunet, this simple story becomes a
haracters and magical imagery, set somewhat

ends up as comedy when no murder is
actually committed,” said Abreu.

“The Bone Violin,” written by
Doug Wright and directed by Sarah Orvin
’O5, looks back at the life of a child prodigy,
taking on a different tone than the
preceding play.

“[It] is a very dark, intricate drama
exploring the artist’s struggle to ﬂourish in
a society riddled with destructive forces,”
explains Orvin. “The play centers around
the life of a child prodigy whose musical
ability could only be explained as a divine
giﬂ, and we know what happens when the
gods come among men....”

“Porcelain and Pink,” written by
F. Scott Fitzgerald and directed by Mary
Guy ’05, closes out Bill B with a 1920s
drama which juxtaposes the attitudes and
actions of two sisters.

Each bill seems balanced in tone
and length, providing both comedy and
drama. With six nights of shows, those
involved encourage students, staff, and
community to attend——the plays are free
and require no tickets.

‘ “They really are an amazing work of
art. I’ve gone to see them the past two years
and have been really impressed; now that
I’ve gotten a look at them from the inside,
there is so much hard work that goes into
making them as professional as possible,”
said Kristine Holda ’06.

Not only do the plays involve dozens
of W & L students in their preparation and
execution, this year ’s performances have
been dedicated to Michael Gorman,
former director of the Lenfest Center.

KINSE Y .

W&L Bookstore Presents. ..
Student Book of the Week

Auoomyteatunoianenooksooreundtheninu-tumvnl

Tislswoolrz

 

Telemarketers — they wake you up Saturdays, waste your time,
and interrupt meals and precious couch time. They are the only
group more despised than lawyers, and for good reason. This
crafty book provides 50 foolproof ways to strike back against
these annoying antagonists, 50 hilariously ingenious methods
that are guaranteed to drive telemarketers nuts!

with everything from the “Moron Maneuver" to the “Yada-Yada
Yammer” to the “Receptionist Ruse,” this book will have you
celebrating when you see “UNAVAILABLE” on your caller~ID.

“Easily, the funniest book of the year.
A hell ofa good time.”
~ Hal Mcbougali

Low Price: $7.95

are just interesting in how and where they
can get their next hookup, that dating falls
to the wayside.

I think these men assume dating will
automatically lead to a relationship, which
is the glory of the cadet. He realizes that
dating is a way to get to know each other
and ﬁgure out if you want a relationship.
Most W&L men seem to feel that dating
means you are getting married.

This small distinction is why it
actually matters that we live next door to
a school that mass produces gentleman,
because no matter how charming or
wonderful the W&L boy may seem,
several of them are adverse to dating and
actually focusing on one person for any
amount of time.

The cadets may seem slightly
awkward, or perhaps they seem too
different, but I will be the ﬁrst to promise
you that these men are generally
gentleman, and actually do date people.

If you found a W&L boy that
actually treats you right, please stay with
them, you are beyond lucky.

As for me, and the other girls that
discovered the wolf in the frat boy,~I will
remain with the officers, because I am
addicted, and because there is nothing
more amazing than a gentleman.

(USA, 2004), directed by sin Condon

Alfred Kinsey was the Indiana University professor whose research in post—World War II America
revealed a lot of the facts about sexuality that we now take as common knowledge. But, as critic
Roger Ebert wrote, this movie “makes one thing clear: Kinsey was an impossible man. He studied
human behavior but knew almost nothing about human nature, and was often not aware that he was
hurting feelings, offending people, making enemies or behaving strangely.” This “bio-pic” is not
tltillating, but what another critic calls “broadly sympathetic while maintaining a clinician's
conscientious detachment.” It's also warm, humorous, and deeply revealing, and features
spectacular performances by Liam Neeson and Laura Linney. , .
(In English. Rated “R” by the MPAA for “pervasive sexual content, including some graphic images
and descriptions.” 118 minutes.)

on appeal for violence, disturbing images and brief strong  L A QUA    U

(USA, 2004), directed by Wes Anderson

The creator of Rushmore and 77249 Royal Tenenbau/m returns with another fascinating and borderline
comedy, an absurdist vision of something that begins as a satire of Jacques Cousteau (and Moby
Didr?). Bill Munay (a Wes Anderson favorite) plays Steve Zissou, an undersea explorer and
documentarian who is on a quest to exact revenge on a leopard shark that killed a friend. The cast
also includes Cate Blanchette, Willem Dafoe, Owen Wilson, Anjelica Huston, and Jeff Goidblum.

and his young ﬁancé (Audrey Tautou) mes to According to the San Francisco Chronide, ‘At the very least, to see a movie as textured as The Life
Aquatic is to realize the thinness of the usual fare. The ﬁlm is often quite funny, but there are no bits
and no punch lines. Laughing at any point makes about equal sense.“

lish. Rated “R” by the MPAA for “language, some drug use, violence and partial nudity.”

118 minutes.)

May 13 & 14

May 20 & 21

 

  

 
 

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

umnmns

 

STAFF EDITORIAL

Kudos Voting
Board for
election forum

We would like to applaud
the Voting Board for hosting a
candidate forum for SJC and EC
elections. Student outcry for a forum
of this nature has been goirig on for
years.

However, the Phi has some
suggestions for future races.

Candidates were not given a
topic to speak about during the
forum. They each got up and made a
speech, often not hitting any
substantial points. If they would '
have had an assigned topic, the
candidates would have been easier to
compare.

Advertise the forum in
places other than Campus Notices.
Student turnout was very low —
eleven students to be exact. This is
not entirely the voting board’s fault,
but realistically, not too many
students read Campus Notices.

Oﬁ'er students food.
Seriously. What attracts college
students to any school-sponsored
event? Food. Offer students
chocolates or popcorn. We think the
crowd would more than double.

Finally, make the forum a
question and answer session with the
students. If the students could
actually pick the candidates’ brains
and get them off of their message
box, attendance would surely pick
up.

While this forum was not
wildly successful, such meetings need
to continue. It’s nice to see a campus
organization listen to students’ ideas.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Coley Anderson has
ﬁnishedsuckinguptohisprofstogive
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0 Mark McGwire

Tries to evade steroid questions at
Congressional hearings, fails to deny
steroid use unlike Sammy Sosa (who
no one believes) and Rafael Palmiero
(who a lot of people believe). 1998
home run chase is now a shattered
legend.

0 Elections

Kudos to the VRB and the EC for
ﬁnally providing a forum for
candidates to speak to their potential
constituents. Makes the whole
“campaign for everything in one
wee ” thing more digestible.

0 ‘Spring Break
Can’t get here early enough.

0 DeLorean

Dies at age 80, designed what will
clearly be remembered as the coolest-
looking form of transportation through
all of time and space.

0 Robot Ninja Zombies
Self-explanatory.

0 Recess

How about this- F hour is oﬂicially
designated as “recess,” and we build
an old-school playground with one of
those metal domes and a slide and
swings? That would rock.

0 Cyrus Mccormick Statue

How about this- we put up a huge sign

next to it that says “This is not Robert
 I  is over there,”

and the we’ll have a iBI’g"anow~\---- .

pointing to Lee Chapel so that we can
stop explaining it ‘over and over again.

0 End-of-term paper rush —

I wonder if my professors will accept
papers done in crayon.

0 My Spring Term classes
Japan in World War H and a politics
course about the Apocalypse. It
DOES NOT GET BETTER.

Election apathy pervades
University student body

By Emily Edwards
Am I use Eorron

It’s that time again: Student
Elections. Fancy Dress has come and
gone, and now we are left with those
miserable ﬁnal two weeks of the hell
known as Winter Term. It concerns me,
though, that no one really lmows what each
branch of our campus government does
for us. SAC, SJC, SFHB, EC, they all
sound more like FDR’s alphabet soup
legislation than a way to make our campus
“Run Like_Butter.” But of course, The
Princeton Review wrongly categorizes our
social scene, so it must be wrong about
our administration and faculty. Funny ho
that happens. ~

For the next couple of weeks, you
will be voting for fellow students who will
be your voice on campus and to the Board
and Administration. Do you understand
what a task that is? As of today, the
position of EC President has only one
candidate. No offense to our candidate,
Charlie Yates, but how would you have
felt if our nation’s 2004 Presidential
election had had only George W. Bush
running or only John Kerry running? It
doesn't sound so wonderful does it? Is
no one willing to take on responsibility
on our campus?

People always want to complain
about life in Lex. We can’t drink in the
fraternity houses, the food is terrible,
Burish didn’t really save Spring Term, and
on and on. The problem is, when it comes

down to dealing with these problems, no
one wants to stand up and ﬁght for what
he or she believes in.

We have become a complacent and
indifferent campus. Only one person
wants to run for EC President? Only one
person wants a chance to leave his mark
in the history books of our magniﬁcent
university?

I have a hard time believing that.
For a place with a “Homogenous Student
Population,” we have such a myriad of
different personalities on this campus.

It’s scary, the fact that diversity
exists here. It makes you WASPs cringe,
doesn’t it?

Washington and Lee is changing. I
don’t always agree with everything the
Administration is promoting in their
Strategic Plan, but such is life.

Twenty years ago, many men were
unnerved with the prospect of women
polluting their bastion of manliness. Even
those vehemently opposed to the idea

agree that it was the best thing that’

happened to our school.

So I oﬂer to you, my peers, a choice.
You can either complain about the state
of our school and accomplish nothing, or
you can stand up for what you believe in.

I’ve sat in too many classes in which
professors have had to call 011' class on
account of heated debates. It’s not that
we lack for opinions. We’ve lived our
whole lives with someone doing the dirty
work for us. It’s not fair to the students
who have come and gone before us to have
only the minimal amount of candidates on
this year’s ballots.

The problem is, when it comes down to dealing
with these problems, no one wants to stand up
and ﬁght for what he or she believes in. We
have become a complacentand indgﬁerent cam-
pus. Only one person wants to run for EC Presi-

dent?

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.  

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS 8: LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

COPY EDITORS

msﬂkrg-urmPhIispwHshedMoridaysdudngiiieurIdergmduaieschodyear
at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
nnﬂirig-wmPMisamenbuomuPibIicaﬂuwBoard,bmisomemiseindependent
Tbei-‘ling-tum Phiweicomes allresponsibiesubmissionsandietters.
Aiisubmissionsmusibse-mailed to phlewiueduorlnthe Universityceniermaiiboxbysnm.
Fridaytoappearlnthsioiiowing week'sediiion.
nnﬂhig-hmnureeewesuiengmtoednsiibmissbnsiorcontemandlengih.
LottersandcoiunnsdonotnecessariiyreiiecttiieopinionoiTheﬂing-tumPhIEditorialBoard.
Advertisingdoesnotreﬂecttheopiniorisoiiireﬂlng-armPhIoritsstaﬂ.
Thisnewspapsrohurvescurremcoundeiiniiiorisoiiibeiandmcenity.

The Hing-tum Phl
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Sdascription rate 840

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS

CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN Ll
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
VANESSA ARNESS

Coming to W&L for the M.R.S.

By Becky LeMoine
THE LOVING HOUSEWIFE

I have found the answer to one
of life’s most unanswerable ontological
questions: Wat is the purpose of life?
Well, if you are a female at W&L, the
answer is plain and simple. The
purpose of life is to get your MRS, of
course.

Many of us entered W&L
with a firm mission: to obtain a degree
and go on to secure a solid job. How
silly of us! We should have realized
from the start that we weren’t meant to
be anything but housewives. The
ultimate mission in life for the typical
W&L female is to spend daddy’s
money on this fine institute, marry a
rich guy, and pop out a few babies.

_ After all, work is hard. So,
why work a real job, when you could
just leave the money-making to the
man? It is his job to support you,
traditionally speaking. Before the
women’s movement, you were never

expected to do anything more than raise -

children, and here at W&L we must
honor that tradition.

Yet, we must not undermine
the importance of a degree. In order to
pose as the perfect trophy wives, we
must be able to indicate that we come
from solid backgrounds, where family
values triumphed and money ﬂowed
freely enough to send us to such a
prestigious institution. The best
indication of our willingness to uphold
the esteemed nature of our family’s
reputation is a degree. Too bad W&L
does not offer a degree in home
economics, because that would be
much more practical than a degree in
business or biology.

For those of us with the rather

ambitious, and, may I dare say, unladylike,
plan to pursue higher levels of knowledge
at either graduate, medical, or law school,
why do we even bother? Perhaps post-
graduate education is merely a back-up
plan, or an excuse for not receiving a
marriage proposal during undergraduate
studies.

If we were to be so unlucky as
to not find a husband at W&L, rather than
fall to pieces or be doomed by the idea of
actually having to support ourselves in the
real world, we simply hold our heads up
high, knowing that even more impressive
men await us. That is why we say we are
going to graduate school. That is why we
work so hard and make good grades.
Women are resourceful; W&L ladies are

’ ingenious.

If you’ve ever heard that females

' at W&L generally have higher grade point

averages than males, don’t be fooled. As I
said, we are ingenious. We value useful
skills.

So, why should we care about the
state of politics in Africa when things like
sewing, cooking, and raising babies are so
much more pertinent in our lives? We are
only using our intellectual ability in hopes
of ﬁnding even more successful husbands.
Otherwise, college would be a complete
waste of time.

For all of the W&L men that
worry, however brieﬂy, that women are
making them look bad or taking their jobs,
I offer this statement: rest assured that you
are superior. Our intellectual schemes are
only the work of women hoping to ﬁnd
men to support them ﬁnancially and pat
them on the back when they raise proper
children. There is no need to worry; we
will never aspire to anything above our
given place in society. All we ask is that
you uphold your end of the contract and
make your proposals sooner rather than
later, please. (End satire).

Morally hungover the
consequences of FD

By Mary childs
rrs NOT YOU, I‘l”S ME

Some people say that a physical
hangover is bad. And under most
circumstances, I’d agree. No body likes
waking up to find that you may have
broken your face last night, and lost
both of your eyes and a signiﬁcant
number of brain cells. And your purse.
And shoes. But sometimes, there’s a
step further from a rough night that
causes a hangover not as easily shaken.
And this is what we refer to as a “moral
hangover.” It’s probably happened to
you, too. That’s when you made a total
fool of yourself last night, and lord
knows who saw it. Coulda been
anybody - so you’re walking around
campus wondering who is your friend
and who is your enemy from the night
before.

The other week my friend from
high school came up to visit me and
we had a wonderful time. We went to
all the staple restaurants of the Lex-
Vegas lifestyle, I gave her a tour of the
countryside homes for her future
reference, and I introduced her to some
lovely people that I’ve met here. And
it was great fun (I’m sure a welcome
change from Davidson).

Somehow Saturday night didn’t
quite live up to Friday. I don’t know
how to explain this but somehow we
got in a little spat which turned into a
little brawl. Kind of embarrassing.
Aﬁer ﬁnally resolving the issue, she
decided that she needed to go back to
Davidson because her roommate had
called her or something, and she didn’t
want to stress me out. This is at three
in the morning. So we had about seven
cell phones constantly calling her, a
sober and devoted ﬁiend (and pledge)
trailing her trying to get her to pull over
so he could drive her wherever she
wanted, and I think I called pretty much
everyone that has ever spoken to her. I
also called her roommate, whom I’ve
never met, and skipped the whole “hi,
I’m Mary, I’m friends with...” andwent
straight to the “Speyser. Have you
talked to...” which, in retrospect, is
kind of awkward. I‘

During this whole stressful
situation, I happened to make the
acquaintance of one particular senior
by sheer luck and accident. I was on

three phones and he was knocking on the
door - apparently too much for my liking.
So I answered and was incredibly rude.
Now under any other circumstances I’m
sure I would have been ﬁ'iendly and warm,
but at that particular juncture, I forgot all
social pleasantries. Which makes for a
pretty poor ﬁrst impression.

The next morning I woke up. Wow.
It was one of those mornings where you
sit there and replay it all and just wonder
how you could have done it right. I thought
of so many better ways to handle any of
the above situations. But it went down like
it did, and that’s the downside of life; time
doesn’t wait for you to click edit - undo.

When I was younger, my mom made
my sister and me memorize this quote
about attitude: “The longer I live, the more
I realize the impact of attitude on life.

Attitude to me is more important that fact, A

more important than ............. ..” My mom
thought it was very important that we
realize that our attitudes dictate a lot of
our lives, and I agree that that’s an
important lesson. But I think I’ve also
come to-disagree. Sometimes it doesn’t
matter what your attitude is. Sometimes it
just matters what you actually do. I can

think anything I want to, I can sit here and

have a positive outlook but if that isn’t
reﬂected in my actions, if that isn’t evident
to everyone else, then my attitude is
completely irrelevant. And that’s what you
feel in the morning, not your attitude but
your actions. And that’s what everyone
else will remember (or, hopefully, not).
And that’s what your moral hangover is
about every time, it’s about the things you
did that you can’t undo, and the
repercussions of your actions. And maybe
right then it’s about the people’s attitudes,
maybe then it’s their outlook that matters.
But after a while it just boils down to what
you’ve done and how you’ve conducted
yourself.

Now I don’t claim to have the cure
for this “moral hangover.” I’m pretty sure,
though, that it’s not the hair of the dog.
Maybe it’s something like community
service, to right the karma. But most
importantly I think it’s just acknowledging
where it went wrong and adding that to
the log of mistakes made and lessons
learned, and taking that out with you next
time. Because the ﬁrst step to recovery is
recognizing that you have a problem. And
maybe after a while the entries logged will
plateau - and maybe that’s growing up.

‘.3

 

MONDAY,MARCH 14, 2005

“It feels magical 172 my pants.

)}

QUOTE OF THE WEEK- Overheard this weekend.

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

Strategic planning provides Baseball 3”” “Wt
positives and negatives

Ea’t't0/"s Erin and C77 ris give you t/zeir take on t/ze /2/an

By Erin Julius and Chris Lauderman
Editorsilchiet

The Strategic Plan was released to
the public over February Break. The
preliminary plan is just that - preliminary.
We have decided to give our opinion on
the good and the bad of the strategic
planning process.

Learning Communities— In a
community this small, interaction does not
need to be forced. Let friendships
naturally evolve. People meet friends
from all disciplines through Greek
organizations and campus activities. You
cannot be isolated in a school of 1700
students. Designing special living
arrangements is unnecessary. If the new
dorms are going to be suite style,
upperclass students should be able to pick
their roommates to avoid problems.

Washington, DC. campus‘ This
is an excellent way to increase name
recognition and take advantage of all that
the nation’s capital has to offer. The only
problem is sacrificing the close-knit
community that we have come to love in
Lexington.”

Satellite uplinkf Again, name
recognition would increase which is
important. Because it would allow for more
professors to jet publicity, Ft woul .7 probably
help to attract well-qualiﬁed faculty.

Athletic renovations and building—
These renovations are deﬁnitely necessary.
The bleachers are rusting, the pool caught
on ﬁre, an indoor graduation at VMI, need
we say more?

Everyone living on-campus—What
would that do to the local economy? We

_would all eat on campus, no one would

be renting houses from local landlords.
This would further isolate students from
the community. Plus, a big selling point
for the university in the past has been the
1.;1ique upperclassman Living options of
living in a house or an apartment above a
store.

The Washington and Lee University
Center for New Thought - Giving W&L
its own think tank for student thought is
an interesting concept and sounds
wonderful. But we have to wonder when
students will actually have time to
participate in this. Professors challenge
us every day in our classes to think
critically. If our work load remains this
strenuous, it is hard to imagine students
having the time.

“...modify the trident to make it less
ominous and reminiscent of a swastika in
appearance.” - This is just a bad idea. It is
a W and an L, not a swastika.

Changing the Conversation around
Robert E. Lee - Lee was an outstanding
college president and hizlped mold W&L

to what it is today. We .nust never forget
that as a university. It is a step in the right

direction to “market” Lee in a positive
light.

The tn"-ad concept - Tri—a—what? For
such an important concept in the strategic
plan, the administration has not done a
good job of explaining it to students. As
we understand it, it is where we link
programs between the College, the
Williams School, and the Law School. It
sounds like a good concept.
Administrators, please explain this in more
detail. .

The Campr; A Ivities P ogram -
“Our reputation as a f‘party school,” with
Greek life predominant, is not in our best
interest, nor is it in the best interest of our
graduates.” — Students know when they
attend Washington and Lee that they are
going to a highly Greek school. We don’t
see frats as a black mark on our resumes.
Joining a Greek Organization teaches you
many valuable life skills such as time
management, social skills, and other

things that a student might not learn in a -

regular academic setting.

We want to emphasize that we do
not think the strategic plan is bad or
harmful to the school. Planning is
essential to surviving as a university. We
must be prepared for the future, but we
cannot shrug off our past at the same time.
Traditions make this school great and we
always have to remerr er the wise words
of the Potato Man Nh he askea, “What
would Bobby Lee do?”

 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
    

  plagued by

By Caley Anderson
MODERATFS MUSINGS

Ac‘.ord' ig to legend, when the
t ne can fo 'hoe’ess Joe Ja ‘(son to
own up, he faced it with what honor
he had leﬁ to him- when the little kid

begged of him “Say it ain’t so, Joe,”A

he said “I’m afraid it is, son.”

Ask Mark McGwire, baseball’s
retired erstwhile slugger hero, and he’ll
instead change the topic, for he’s not
interested in “talking about the past.”

Or ask Bud Selig, whose term
as commissioner, racked with both
significant accomplishments and
disastrous failures, and he’ll tell you
that bas"-bal7's steroid problem is
completely 100% solved, or will be by
the end of this season.

It would take a remarkable
amount of naivete indeed to believe
that McGwire never used steroids that
violated MLB’s rules. And it would
take even more to believe that baseball
is clean of steroids.

V My favorite non-martial sport is
hitting yet another dip in its eternal
roller coaster ride. It seemed like not
too long ago that McGwire and Sammy
Sosa were smacking dingers out oﬁhe
park and restoring people’s faith in the

game; now we find that they were _

probably juiced up beyond all belief
while doing so.

Mind you,_ Sosa had the
intestinal fortitude to deny that he used
steroids while sitting before a
Fangre ior 1 Committee last
Thursday. I don’t believe him, but I’m
willing to give him the beneﬁt of the
doubt until someone proves it. And
despite McGwire’s assertions, players
before the committee were not damned

rather successfully (and passionately)
defended himself from steroid charges,
as did Curt Schilling.

But McGwire just sat there and
evaded. Absolutely no denials, where
even Sosa, who bulked up suspiciously
during his home run streak, was
denying in bad English.

Regardless of what you think of
Jose Canseco, and believe me, I think
he’s a greedy attention-grabber, there

' is at least a grain of truth in what he
says. Accusations have come from all
sides, from players, ﬁom ex-players,
.-‘ xm« x— mi itatr ‘s. Andb' eball’s

demons

much-touted current plan is hardly the
effective one that Bud Selig would like
you to believe. MLB’s medical director
had little or no clue about what exactly

[it entailed while testifj ing before

Congress; 4' 4-are player have ' een
sh_r ked by : media w .1 repi ers
told them that current steroid penalties
are effectively wrist-slaps (fines, and
the player gets to. retain anonymity).
The system is designed primarily
to protect big stars. One anonymous
non-star player wisely hypothesized
that the anonymity clause would likely
be waived for low-profile players; a
few scapegoats to toss to the dogs.
Baseball is about kicking the dirt
off your cleats, taking a few warmup
swings, and playing ball. It sure as hell

, isn’t about sticking yu ‘rself ‘ 'ith

needles in an obsessive quest for power
hitting. Yet when baseball’s greatest
“heroes” present it as such, kids
emulate. Present at the Congressional
hearing were the families of kids who
had injected themselves in an attempt
to imitate their heroes, resulting in fatal
and tragic consequences. All this from
a simple game of baseballs, bats, and
gloves.

The stain that Pete Rose left on
the game, though it was worsened by
his repeated denials,  nothing
compared to this egregiousness. Rose
gambled on the sport. These players
cheat. Rose’s gambling, to look at it
from a W&L perspective, was not
dishonorable. His denials were, of
course, but far worse than the gambling
is the cheating of steroid - sers. They
ess ntially r _-upt the 6:. nce c .he
game by turning hitting from a science
into a drug habit. They make the game
unfair to clean players. They make the

. game a sham chemical contest instead
, of ‘the’ great ‘game that it should be.
, if they did or didn’t- Rafael Palmiero =

They‘hurt the sport in ways that Pete
Rose never has, and never could.

The ghost of steroids will linger,
over this entire season- McGwire will
rightfully go down in shame, question
marks will linger around Barry Bonds’
run at the all-time home run record, and
kids will continue to follcwv the roads
trodden by their spring heroes.

Meanwhile, no one in MLB has
the guts to just face it, confess what’s
past, and do their best to ﬁx the sport,
except maybe Kevin Towers.

But don’t. expect Cmseco’s hate,
or everyone else’s denial" to shin!‘ up
the port of r.ebal1 any. re soo.

 

 

s - THE RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2005

 

L This week’s topic:
.: Fancy Dress and

party stories

' ' -At least my date didn’t leave me to

do calculus homework this year.

‘ 1- -Another Fancy Dress like that will

kill the function.

-This was the best Fancy Dress ever!
The decorations were awesome and
there weren’t too many so there was

' room to actually move.

-I never made it to Fancy Dress last

‘ A, night...

-Did anyone else think the decorations
looked like a Waddell Elementary craft

- project?

-I danced like an Egyptian.

-My date was hotter than your date.

-What was up with all the student
security?

-I wish I would have been allowed
to climb the Great Pyramids.

-FD l0O’s theme should be “Gone
with the Wind,”

-1 didn’t see too many Law students
at Fancy Dress. I think it should get
moved back to the ﬁrst weekend of
March next year.

-So my sober driver was driving me
home Saturday and we hit a dog.

-I burned my little black book after
FD. I have decided to join a convent
after Saturday night.

Next week’s topic:
Why you’re ready
for Spring Term

Lesson on stopping your
friends from hooking—up

By Eka Akpakip and Bree Melton
Breka

Yeah, you knew we’d be back.
And this week instead of rehashing crazy
FD stories (and believe us, there are
manyl), we’re going to provide you with
a little tutorial on the subtle art that is cock-

' blocking.

So let’s set the scene: It’s Friday
night, around 10:17 pm. The band is just
getting started, you’re making the rounds

O to greet the brothers you know, and the

two shots of JD still warm in your belly
(because you never go out without
pregaming, it’s simply unheard of!). The

' . girl you came with sidles up to you, two

beers in hand. You reach for one,
“Thanks!” She laughs and pulls the Natty
out of the way. “Dude, I’m double-
ﬁstingl” You roll your eyes, but turn back
to the frat lord you’re “getting to know.”
A pouty look -from you and he’s
volunteered to fetch you a beer. Now
where did your double-fisting friend
disappear to?

Oh, there she is, elbowing her
way to the front of the band. And oh dear,
her sense of rhythm is already evaporating.
Yep, just as you thought: two empties lie

» at her feet and two fresh ones are in hand.

Okay. . .now who is that sketchy mofo who
thinks he can dance with her? You know
it ’s a bad idea, she — well she would hook
up with a wall at this point - and. . .it seems
like that frat boy’s name is “Wall” tonight.
What’s the next course of action, you ask?

1. You could let it happen. The cute
frat lord has just returned with your beer.

1 I And hell if you’ll let your girl mess up

your game another weekend! But, oh
gosh, she’s already making out with
“Wall” and getting catcalls from the band.
Well, she can have her fun at the party,
but at least make sure she leaves with you.

2. You could pull your girl aside
(the bathroom is a nice, discrete place, and

, - , you’re pretty sure “Wall” is waiting right
i I outside for her). Ask her, “Do you really
' want to do this?” Make sure to look in

her eyes and see if she can actually focus.
If she, at this point, attempts to make out
with you, put her on Traveller and send
her home. Her night is officially over.

3. Point her in another direction.

At least then you’ll have another ﬁﬁeen
minutes with your cute frat boy (just
talking and getting to know each other
of course!) before you have to intervene
again.

4. There is always the option of
pulling the “Wall” aside. At this point,
it’s your discretion what to do. First,
judge the “Wall’s”'level of sobriety. If

. he, like your friend, would probably be

satisﬁed with anyone, point him in the
direction of another girl who seems at
least a little more coherent and just as
receptive. Second, you could go for
the tough girl approach.

If you know enough brothers,
threaten to sic them on him. This is
particularly effective in the fall when
boys are afraid of getting balled. Of
course, you could always ﬂex your own
guns. Helpful hint from Breka: When
trying to prove you’re buff, ask people
to feel your biceps rather than your
pecs. As a girl, this is far more
appropriate. The ﬁnal option when
talking to the “Wall” is to hit on him
yourself. Don’t go too far, just enough
to distract him from your friend. Then
shut him down.

The one ﬂaw to this
suggestion is some boys see this as an
opportunity for a little thing called
“ménage a trois.” So make sure to
separate yourself from your friend
before implementing this plan.

5. Of course, you, being the hot
social butterﬂy that you are, have plenty
of other parties at which to make
appearances. Your highly intoxicated
friend will be easily swayed, and you
can continue partying with her out of
harm’s way. . .for now.

Any way, all I know is l’ve cock-
blocked for guys and girls both.
Unfortunately for the guys, they seem
to be on the receiving end more often
than not. Sometimes you’ve just got
to look out for your brothers. When
you see him with a lady he’s going to
regret in the morning, you know what
to do. We’ve given you the tools, you
know the situation. And now with your
sweet cock-blocking skills, all the
gangs will want you. Next week’s
article will detail some real-life
outcomes.

You know it’s a bad idea, she — well she
would hook up with a wall at this point, A
and. . .it seems like that frat boy ’s name is

“Wall” tonight.

Fisherman adds to
Bush’s Axis of Evil

Drunk girls, mayonnaise, and stupid questions added

By Hugh Trout
TneFisherman

While President Bush outlined a
few countries that embodied a wholly un-
American, and therefore evil spirit, I feel
that he unfortunately failed to include
other forces and people of similar evil
aspirations. Now while this may just be
one man’s opinion, I would urge you all
to note that I was one of the first people in
the country to use phrases such as, “That’s
Da Bomb” and “That’s what she said!”...so
I’m pretty cool. I also started the Macarena
but stopped doing it when everyone else
was because it wasn’t cool and
underground anymore. But anyway, back
to the Axis of Evil. To put it simply, there
are much needed additions that I will
present here in the spirit of civic duty and
patriotism. -

That drunk girl who cut in line at
the beer pong table is the ﬁrstaddition.
It’s rude, it’s unbecoming of a W&L
student and most importantly: it’s evil.
Who does she think she is? And what’s
worse is that shecan barely hit a cup, and
you and your friend didn’t want to have
to stand by and baby-sit the table while
you were waiting. You have people to talk
to and there is no excuse for her behavior,
but you are too nice of a person to call her
out on it. Besides, tomorrow morning she
will receive plenty of punishment all of
her own. But nevertheless, she is now in
the Axis.

“Hey, what’s going on...do you
remember what my name is?” That is the
second addition to the Axis of Evil. The

' question itself, that is. If you think that

That drunk girl who cut in line at the beer pong
table is the first addition. It’s rude, it’s unbe-
coming of a W&L student, and most impor-
tantly: it’s evil. Who does she think she is?
And what’s worse is that she can barely hit a

cup. ..

the person was too drunk to remember
your name but clearly remembers your
face, be classy about it. Subtly slip your
name into the conversation to help them
out. Only a malicious person would call
the person out on it because they clearly
feel bad enough about it as it is. Besides,

’ asking that question in a conversation is

equivalent to setting a bear trap of
awkwardness and then grabbing the other
person and jumping right in it. It will be a
painful awkwardness that will cling on to
you both not only for that night, but
whenever you see each other.

Fourth addition: Due de Richelieu
and his most heinous creation. For those
of you who are unfamiliar with who this
evil man is or his legacy, I will explain.
In 1756, this French Chef in a ﬁt of evil
rage decided to mix ingredients that alone
are ﬁne, but together create a force of
wickedness so strong that it has been
impossible to eradicate, despite my best
efforts. By combining egg yolks, oil,
vinegar, and selected evil seasonings, he
was able to create a substance of sin that
has lived long beyond the natural span of
his own evil life. This horrible creation
has been spread around the world and is

commonly known to the American people
as mayonnaise. It’s disgusting, fattening,
and the sick bastard that invented it made
sure it would camouﬂage with the color
of bread so as to trick and haunt me. And
while I enjoy other French contributions
to my diet such as “Freedom” fries, they
will never be able to receive forgiveness
for this crime.

I understand and respect if you have ,

issues with some of these new additions.
However, it must be understood that for
purposes of National Security which I
cannot disclose, it’s for the good of the
country. If you like mayonnaise then you
probably also enjoy beating puppies,
yelling at children and other similarly evil
activities. But there may be a few good
individuals out there who are just confused
and eat mayonnaise without knowing of its
inherent evil. If this is you, please seek
immediate help and make your best effort
to help other friends if they suﬁer from the
same condition. Hopefully by
eradicating these subtle and cunning
evils we can make this world a better
place where we all don’t have to wait
around the beer pong table looking like
huge D-bags.

Gettinga piece of
the corporate pie

By Marshall Rule

Potato Man

Everyone knows that today’s world
is a corporate one. It has taken over sports,
clothes and every day life.

No longer are stadiums named after
some old rich guy, but rather after some
old rich guy’s company. These companies
don’t care about the team, but they just
want to get their name out to the world.

This has become a very lucrative

‘business. And since I am all about making

money, I ﬁgured I would get a piece of
the pie. I am going to be selling the
naming rights to everything I do.

My Journalism 203 paper will be
brought to you by Frank’s Manure. “It’s
the best bullshit this side of the
Mississippi...just like this paper.” That
one probably won’t get me much money,
because it only reaches my professor who
will inevitably stop reading after page two,
before just giving me my inevitable F, with
a side note saying, “try another major.”

But the one that will make me rich
is my pick up lines sponsored by Michelob
Amberbock, “rich but not smooth.” Every
time I crash and burn with a girl, a voice
will come from the sky saying, “rich, but
not smooth, luckily Amberbock beer is
rich and smooth.” And once the W&L girl
hears that I am rich (or so she thinks), she
will be all over me like Michael Jackson
on Macaulay Culkin.

Boxers have made a fortune off of
this for years. They get a company’s name
printed on their back, and the whole world
will see it. So to cash in on that, I will be
getting a tattoo advertising for Dr.
Heingleman’s colonies company. Now

every time the wife of the Dean of High.

Point College takes a picture of me
streaking their quad, she and all who she
shows the picture to will see that
advertisement along with my two
abnormally white cheeks (On a side note,
I later found out that the High Point
experience, as we have come to call it,
nearly ended the greek system at High
Point).

Advertising has gotten so out of
control that they are now putting
advertisements above public restroom
urinals. I’ve actually seen advertisements
in the urinal. Yes, gentlemen, you can read
about Dr. Scholls new product, while
urinating on its advertisement.

Every piece of clothing advertises
itself. We are walking billboards and we
pay extra to advertise for better companies
like Polo and Patagonia. But hey, if a 90
dollar polo shirt helps get you laid, more
power to you.

The best advertisements are the
cheap ones that are in the back of
magazines. The Liberator is my personal
favorite. Companies have actually come
out with a large square pillow for girls to
lie on during sex. Good idea, let’s make

it even easier for a girl to fall asleep/pass
out during sex.

The last ﬁve pages of Maxim are
just trashy advertisements from companies
that should not be able to stay in business.
For instance, if you send 64 dollars to SHN
Tech, Inc., they promise to send you
supplements that will make you grow
taller. Seriously, how is this company
surviving? And I wdn’t even get into the
details of the full page ads in the back.
Let’s just say that I never knew that one
pill can help you regain your conﬁdence
and put a smile on her face.

Ad placement is also becoming a
multi million dollar business. An ad
placement in the television show “The
Apprentice,” cost up to one million
dollars. Pepsi will pay millions of dollars
to have a Pepsi truck drive by in the
background of a movie, a three second
advertisement for millions of dollars.

Advertising is where the money is.
I am ready to cash in on it. That’s why
this article is brought to you by Smimoff
Vodka... if I can write this good hung
over, imagine what I could have done
drunk.

My Journalism 203 paper will be brought to you
by Frank’s Manure. “It’s the best bullshit this
side of the Mississippi. . just like this paper.”
That one probably won’t- get me much money,
because it only reaches my professor who will
inevitably stop reading after page two, before.
just giving me my inevitable F, with a side note
saying, try another major.
 

V

 

