.4‘.

_ . ,
‘la
1 .

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
T HE

NG-TUM

The lilllitlli wire of Wurliinglon and Lie Unz'oerrz'Iy since 7897

(VT
VOLUME ,No.7

PHI

A Possible changes in store for fraternity pledgeship

BY KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF wRITER

After the Administration’s

"’ problems with last year’s fraternity

New Member Education, generally
known around campus as
“pledgeship,” the IFC and fraterni-
. ties on campus may be forced to
rethink previous years’ deﬁnition
of “pledgeship.” Questionable vio-
lations of New Member Education
led to investigations last year of
several fraternities, though most ac-
cusations were later cleared.
Though the IFC has not determined

what changes could be made

this year to avoid new member

education violations, rumors
have circled campus of short-
ening the period of new mem-
ber education. These rumors
were not confirmed by IFC
president Torn Pickering.

A committee, consisting of

half students and half faculty,
has been formed to “recom—
mend solutions that beneﬁt the

fraternities, new members, and

the university as a whole,”
Pickering says. “The IFC feels
that the necessary guidelines

Faculty and students forming committee to study New Member Education

for New Member Education are
already present in the IFC Con-
stitution and the Student Hand-
book, but compliance is the
main problem.” After last year’s
complaints against the 8-week
period of New Member Educa-
tion, changes could happen this
year.

Pledgeship has already
been shortened once, in 1998,
from a previous 10 week period.
The Student Affairs Committee,
made of six faculty and six stu-
dent leaders, reexamined New
Member Education in 2001 and

submitted a report that recom- ‘

mended the New Member Edu-
cation period remaining at 8
weeks.

Others feel that the crack-
down of the University on fra-
ternities and pledgeship is part
of the University’s desire to
keep W&L from the stigma of
the “number 2 party school.”
A sophomore man affiliated
with a Greek house said that
“the fact that kegs and drink-
ing games must stay off cam-
pus already displays the
University’s attempts to cut
back on Greek—based, on-cam-

pus revelry.”

Any changes in the 2005
New Member Education period
should be revealed by the end
of Fall Term, after Provost Will-
iarns armounces the committee.
Many students say they disap-
prove of such changes. Another
sophomore Greek man said, “I
haven’t heard anything about a
4 week pledgeship, but if that’s
the truth there’s going to be a
bigger brouhaha than when elec-
tricity was invented.”

Sources chose to remain
anonymous in order to avoid
any possible repercussions on
their Greek organizations’
recruitments.

ON OGERS ' NC-TUM HI

Convocation: Dr. Andrew Kumpuris, a W&L alumnus and Little Rock, Ark., cardiologist who was a member of President Clinton’s bipartisan Health Care

Task Force was the keynote speaker at Washington and Lee’s Convocation last Wednesday evening. Kumpuris has advised U.S. Senate members on
legislation dealing with patient safety, rural health care and Medicare reform issues. Kumpuris joined W&L’s faculty in the 2003 winter term, during
which he ﬂew from Arkansas to Virginia weekly to teach a special undergraduate seminar on health care policy, ﬁnances and politics. Kumpuris, named

one of six health policy fellows in 2001 by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, volunteered his time for the sought-after course. His talk, “The Shared
Experience,” will include reﬂections on W&L, where Kumpuris has actively served on the alumni advisory board of the University’s Shepherd Program
for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and Human Capability. Convocation welcomed 461 freshmen to campus.

Returning students face theft on-campus and off

Freshman’s dorm room broken into and several items were stolen; students’ local storage units ransacked this summer

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

The start of the school year
brought discoveries of theft for
many W&L undergraduates. Stor-
age units and dorm rooms have
been pilfered during the summer or
orientation week.

.-V) Several students met with
losses after Frankie’s Storage on
Lee Highway was ransacked this
summer. The robbery went unno-
ticed until students returned to

claim their belongings, but best
guesses place the incident in
August.

Caitlin WalkerLieb ’07 at-
rived to discover that the stor-
age unit she shared with Amy
Nunez ’07 had been pilfered.
The two lost expensive elec-
tronics, such as a television and
printer, and irreplaceable per-
sonal items, such as photo-
graphs, clothing, and sorority
heirlooms. While it is estimated
that the thief or thieves gained

the only items taken -were
a cellular phone and

approximately 10 short-
sleeved polo shirts.

access to between ten and ﬁfteen
bins, the actual number may
never be known. According to
Frarrkie’s, it is impossible to tell
the difference between an empty
storage unit and one that has had

its lock cut off. After several
robberies in recent years, the
facility installed security carn-
eras last week.

Theft is already present
within W&L boundaries as
well. When Andrew McWay
’O8 returned from a pre-orien-
tation trip, he found his be-
longings missing and his Baker
dorm room in disarray. A dis-
placed window screen sug-
gested that the burglar climbed
through the first-ﬂoor window

to reach McWay’s belongings.
McWay was disappointed at
starting off the school year this
way at a university that “takes
such great pride in its campus
security and honor system.”

Strangely enough, the thief
never touched the laptop com-
puter or iPod music player left
in the room. According to
McWay, the only items taken
were a cellular phone and ap—
proximately l0 short-sleeved
polo shirts.

Students claim W&L needs ACIDA

Four undergraduate men attended last weeks infonnational meeting and share their reasons for considering this fraternity

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDlTOR—lN—CHlEF

Four Washington and Lee
men attended Alpha Phi Alpha’s
information session last Wednes-
day evening.

Representatives from James
Madison University and Univer-
sity of Virginia’s Alpha Phi Alpha
chapters attended the meeting to
share their experience as broth-
ers. Alpha Phi Alpha, “offers so
many beneﬁts that are so neces-
sary for men of color,” said
Michael McPheeters, a first—year
law student and an Alpha Phi Al-
pha brother.

Derin Harrison, ‘07 and An-
drew Elliot, ’07 attended the meet-

ing and are considering be-
coming Alphas.

According to Dean

Tammy Futrell, chapter before,
“We are not creating anything
new, just re-es-
tablishing a rela-
tionship,” she
said.

Alpha Phi

fraternities are a little differ-

ent because they are not a

‘part of the IFC,” she said.
These men argue that

Washington and Lee’s cam-

./

The campus still
displays its ignorance
of the challenges

pus could beneﬁt from an Alpha
Phi Alpha chapter.

“At the very least, Alpha should
come to increase diversity and
cultural awareness,” said Derin
Harrison, “Too
many of the Wash-
ington and Lee
community have
too little contact

Alpha does not _ withthose outside
have to seek In— faced by Afr1C3»ﬂ' of their socio—eco-
ter—Fraternity Americans nomic back-.
Council ap— ground.”

proval, “Black Andrew Elliot,

said he wants an Alpha chapter
on campus in order to offer stu-
dents more of a choice.

“A number of perspectives
that come to visit W&L ask each

year whether or not W&L has
a historically black fraternity,
or sorority for that matter,”
Elliot said, “Having a histori-
cally black fraternity would
only help W&L’s continuous
mission to recruit minorities.”

Harrison and Elliot both
say that Alpha can help to
correct injustices faced by mi-
norities.

“The campus still dis-
plays its ignorance of the
challenges faced by African-
Americans or other minority
groups. One simple reason is
that W&L’s campus creates
some of these injustices con-
stantly year after year,” Elliot
said.

According to Harrison, Alpha
offers a different Greek experience.
“To one who is not really into the
frat life, all of the frats are the same.
The only frat houses I know the
locations of are ones who did more
than just mixers and pre-garne carn-
pus events. I would like to have a
fraternity, not just for students of
color, but for students who don’t
drink as well,” he said.

Elliot said he is drawn to
Alpha’s special history.

“If I choose Alpha, it would
be because of the rich history,
the extensive connections, and
the brotherhood the fraternity ex-
udes and possesses. I feel these
characteristics will mix well with
W&L’s great qualities,” he said.

MONDAY, SEEIEMBER13, 2004

Traveller

Improves
service

CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

Traveller began mak-
ing Lexington rounds last
Friday night after an ab-
sence over orientation
week. Changes have been
made over the summer to
improve on the old system.

“We are exited to be
able to announce new and
upgraded service,” said
Jeb Brooks, Student Coor-
dinator of the Traveller
Committee.

Brooks went on to say
that there would be shorter
wait times and more re-
sponsive dispatchers and
drivers for Traveller Dis-
patch.

Traveller is now sepa-
rated into two services,
Traveller Express and Trav-
eller Dispatch. Traveller
Express is keeping the
same in-town route as last
year, but the transporta-
tion means will be differ-
ent.

This year, on Wednes-
day, Friday, and Saturday
nights from 10 p.m. until 2
a.m., Mini-buses with pro-
fessional drivers from
Charlottesville will pick
students up at the black
Traveller benches.

The mini—buses can
hold more people than the
athletic vans previously
used. Five mini—buses will
travel the route. Route
maps are posted on cam-
pus and are available on-
line at traveller.wlu.edu.

Traveller Dispatch
runs seven nights a week
from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m.
There are now three Trav-
eller owned vehicles, two
cars and a mini-van, so vol-
unteers will no longer have
to donate the use of their
personal cars.

The phone number for
Traveller has remained the
same. Call extension 8900
and a Traveller vehicle will
be sent to you anywhere
in the area and will take
you wherever you need to
go in the area.

“I think the students
last year did an amazing
job of listening to their fel-
low students in redesign-
ing the program to better
meet current needs,” said
Dawn Watkins, Dean of
Students.

Student reaction to
Traveller’s changes has
been positive.

“It will aide the safety
of students because they
will be riding in actual
buses, not packed like sar-
dines in vans ‘that were
built during the Nixon ad-
ministration,” said junior
Drew Davenport.

“It only works if ev-
eryone contributes,” said
Brooks. Student organiza-
tions that receive Execu-
tive Committee funding will
be asked throughout the
year to drive for Traveller
Dispatch. Campus groups
will only have to drive
once during the academic
year.

If there are any questions
or comments about
Traveller ’s services or if you
would like to volunteer to
drive, Contact Brooks at
brooksj@wlu.edu.

 

    
 

JAMES G. L.EYB'uHN LIBRARN
PAGE 2*vASHtNG{l.’ON 81  i_,lNt'dE.R:%lT\

L I

 

 

SEP I 4 zone

University Commons welcomes new staff members

New blood, Including W&L grad, replaces Glassman, Jacobs in student life offices

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
STAFF WRiTER

The 2004-2005 academic year at Washington and Lee
kicked off last week with a number of new faces in the faculty and
administration. President Burish’s “Welcome” email to students
has introduced a number of new names
replacing those with which we were quite
familiar. Matt Jacobs, Theresa Glassman, and
Buddy Atkins can no longer be found in the
Personnel Directory. All three of their
positions have direct relations to an
administration area dubbed “student life.” ,

Todd Tate is the new director of
Student Activities and Greek Life. His
previous administration experience involves
serving as the Director of Student
Organizations and Programs at Drexel
University. Mr. Tate also has extensive
experience with Greek life. As an
undergraduate at SUNY Brockpoart, he was a
founding brother of the Phi Sigma Chi
Chapter of Alpha Chi Rho National Fraternity
at SUNY Brockport, and also was the
Founding President of the Interfratemity
Council. Mr. Tate was also the University
Advisor to the Alpha Delta Epsilon Sorority
at SUNY Geneseo. Mr. Tate was attracted to
Washington and Lee because of its
reputation and Honor System. When asked
about specific plans for the Student Life Administration’s first
year, the new director replies: “Our Theme is Collaboration and
Communication. We need to listen and work with the appropriate
stakeholders within the University community. We are working in

HEAD HoNcHo.
Activities and Greek Life Director Todd
Tate.

 

New

3 areas; to ﬁnalize programming sponsored by the University
Commons & Student Activities, speciﬁcally developing
collaboration with others in the University community, Student
organizations, i.e. SAB, to determine where we can support their
efforts and with the Greek community to
provide a road map for students, faculty,
administrators, headquarters and loyal alumni
in the areas of self
governance, social
responsibility, facilities,
ﬁnancial management,
perception, membership
development, leadership
development and
assessment.”

The new Assistant
Director of Student
Activities and Greek Life,
Kristen Powell, graduated
from Washington and Lee
in 2000. Mrs. Powell was
a Robert E. Lee Scholar
and graduated Magna
Cum Laude. As for Greek
life, Mrs. Powell explains:
“I was active in my
sorority, I was an ofﬁcer,

attended a National
Conference, and served on the Panhellenic
Housing Committee. I spent four years on this
Committee working to select the architects for
the Sorority Houses, develop and ﬁnalize exterior plans, and
develop and ﬁnalize the interior decorating scheme.” After
graduation, Mrs. Powell married a VMI cadet, Jim Powell ’00, and
lived in Texas for three years where she worked for Young Life, a

Student Assistant Director.

 

TRIUMPHANT RETURN. . e _ _
Powell <00 assumes her dream job as and relationships. She 1S also comrrutted to

Student Aetivities and Greek Life celebrating student success through “End of

non—proﬁt Christian outreach ministry to teenagers. But when her
husband had since found a management position with Young Life
in Rockbridge County, Mrs. Powell explains: “I had often remarked
that if we ever moved back to Lexington, my dream job was to
work at W&L as the Advisor to Sorority
Women. Needless to say, I’m pretty excited
about things have turned out.”
The ﬁnal missing figure in this game of

Guess Who‘? is Marguerite (Margo)
McClinton, W&L’s new Director of the Elrod
University Commons and Campus Activities.
Ms. McClinton has had various experiences in
college administration, including serving as a
Minority Admissions Coordinator at Harvard
Graduate School of Education, as a Residential
College Director at Washington University, and
most recently Ms. McClinton served as the
Associate Director of the Hardee Center for
Women in Higher Education. Ms. McClinton,
as new Director of the Commons and Campus
Activities, is committed to: “building positive
relationships with students, developing a
successful club sports program, and the
Kristen cultivation of student involvement, leadership,

Year Recognition of all groups.” At the moment,

Ms. McClinton is focusing on an International
Film Festival to be held at the Elrod Commons Theater, from
September 17th —l9th; an event for which she hopes will be a large
student turnout (*reference to article covering the festival*).

While Ms. McClinton does not have a signiﬁcant

involvement with Greek life at W&L, she was a member of the
Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority at Emory University, where she held
various officer positions including Chapter Secretary and President.

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 

3%

«a.

E

Irsylni

    

“Why do they need to “lt’s nice to have that
option...Tliere’s another

avenue to take.”
-Beth Darnmlash ‘06

be separate?”
-Nicole Menulo ‘08

,»  
MONDAY, SEPFERMBER 13, 2004 

K
I

Does Traveller really canter through campus? 

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDlTOR—IN—CI-IIEF

Local legend has it that General Lee’s warhorse, Traveller,
still roams through campus. Traveller outlived his master but
dwelt in the stable attached to the
Lee House during Lee’s time in Lex-
ington. Traveller shared the Lee
House stable with another horse,
Lucy Long.

“The story is that Traveller’s
ghost has been seen running
through Washington and Lee, so by
tradition the stable doors have
been leftopen so he can come and
go as he pleases,” said Shana *

 

past the stable to explain the historic legend.

This school year, however, the front doors to the stable
have been tied shut.

“We are painting the doors and, with all the rain, trying
to get or keep them dry,” said
Scott Beebe, head of the Physical
Plant. “They will be open real
soon.”

At press time, the doors
were shut once again.

Physical Plant workers made
sure to respect 150 years of his-
tory. “We did leave the back door
open so Traveller could come and
go,” Beebe said.

Pardue of Lexington Carriage Com-
pany.

Mrs. Lee is rumored to have
been asuperstitious woman, and the
stable doors were originally left
open at her request.

The Lexington Carriage Company offers tours of historic
Lexington, and shares this myth of Traveller with its tour
groups. Many university tour guides bring groups of visitors

remain open. .

 

“Diversity at W&L is

‘‘If they want it, go

coming a long way and for it. lt’s not like the
I think this will help.” parties will be racially
-David Kronenfeld ‘07 divided”
' -John Kim ‘07

WE’LL KEEP THE LIGHT ON. Tradition demands that the
doors to Traveller’s former stable, the garage of Lee House,

No Traveller sightings have
been reported to the Phi.

The doors to Traveller’s
stable are now painted a bright
teal.

Fact or Fiction is going to be a regular feature in the Ring-tum Phi
this year: If you have heard a campus myth or local legend that you
would like the Phi to investigate email phi@wlu.edu or call ext.
4060.

Nabors
Service

League
Do It!

Come work for the only paper on campus with
layout, ethics, and no debt.

The REAL independent Newspaper
Meetings at 5:15 at .
Third ﬂoor, University Commons

MAKE YOUR OWN HOURS

All you do is sell the Hawaiian Tropic Break
2005 Travel Program Represent an American
Express “Student Travel" Company Guaranteed
Highest Commission, Free Trips 81 Great for
Resume Your pay equals your efforts AMERICAN
STUDENT Vacations I-800-336-2260

www americanstudentinfo

STRINGED
INSTRUMENT
Expert Repair & Set-

Guitars &Basses
Acoustic &Electrlc

 

ReferencesAvailable
Local Service/Will Pick Up & Deliver!
LEO LORENZONI

Luthier 540.258.14.01

..
gm‘

 



4 .

 

MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 13, 2004

O

F

Siiilli\l3F?ﬁDITORIAL

Botox Leybum Library

Leybum Library needs a
facelift. Come on, it’s approaching 30
and it just needs some work. The Phi
thinks these changes need to be made

and soon:

0 More natural lighting, so
students don’t snooze through
their studies.

0 New carpet, not only is the old
stuff putrid—looking, but it
smells wretched.

0 New paint, those colors
weren’t ever a good idea————not
even in the 70’s.

0 New upholstered chairs.
There are stains, who knows
what has happened on those
old ratty things. To cut costs,
take furniture out of the
Commons— no one uses it

anyway.

0 More computers, it is the
twenty—first century.

0 Carrolls: a student’s home
away from home, and we
deserve more than those little
wooden chairs.

0 What is with Northern
Auditorium? That red and
green plaid carpet is just

bizarre

0 Renumbering the ﬂoors in
some logical, numerical order
(and getting rid of this “main”
ﬂoor business) would be
extraordinarily helpful.

0 Laptop drop-off. No one
wants to leave their precious
data alone while they’re in
class or at lunch. The library
should offer a safe place to
leave laptops for a short time.

These additions would make
everyone’s study time much more
pleasant. And Leybum could turn

30 in style.

   

“This is the part of the price we pay, I guess,

te of the Week

forliving in paradise.”

~Govemor of Florida, J eb Bush, speaking
to residents over television before Frances hit.

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Sports Editor

Copy Editors

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Distribution Dir:

 PHI

Erin Julius
Chris Lauderrnan

Sarah Murray

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge

Kate Zawyrucha
Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis

David Seifert
Rob Rain
Stephen Lipscomb

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
Tlw Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarilyreflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

 HI.

 

("AiEYANDEizsoN
OPINIONS EDHOR

FMAlI:ANDERSONC@WlUJ3l)lJ

N

 

PAGE 3

Getting through the transitions of college life

Coming back to Lexington after the summer, things looked the same
but yet something, imperceptibly, had changed. I was no longer a fresh-
man. I could see the new wave filing into Lee Chapel in their nicest suits
and sundresses, and already felt surprisingly detached from them con-
sidering it had been me one short year ago. As they say, a lot can change
in a year. You never really understand the clichés until you are old enough
or wise enough, and then you are struck by the simple truth of them.

Only recently, for example, have I fully understood why on the news
after the death of a teenager or child people seem to
tearfully lament most the fact that the child will never
get to realize their dreams, start a family, or live a full
life. When we were children, our dreams were pure and
relevant yet as variable as a child’s mood. You know
how it is: one year they want to be a princess, the next a female

Erninem.

But every year I get closer to graduating and truly setting out on my
own, building a life for myself, I understand how invested I am in my
dreams. The thought of losing those experiences, or missing out on the
things I’ve always wanted, is a disheartening one.

I’ve begun to think of life as a series of transitions. That’s part of
the reason it can be hard at times, yet ultimately rewarding. First, there is
childhood which is existence without responsibility or too many cares.
Then the difficult teenage years set in and soon enough you’re ready to
leave the home you’ve known for eighteen years. College is a big transi-
tion, and an important one. Every person handles it differently.

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNE FINLEY ‘07_

Some throw themselves into the social scene and try to get as
much fun squeezed into four years as possible, others buckle down
and work. The latter are preparing for or prematurely entering the
next stage: terror at the idea that in a year or two you have to find a
job (or get into/pay for grad school,) move somewhere in this huge
country (because there aren’t enoughjobs for all of us in Lexington,)
and become a legitimate adult and decision maker.

Every once in a while, I find it helpful to take stock of things, re-
evaluate my goals and scary as it is, what I’m doing with
my life. (Why I chose this exact point in time is beyond
me.) Basically, you have to periodically ask yourself what
you want out of college.

In my experience, with a year behind me, I have en-
joyed the new and exciting aspects of college life and

independence. I have soul—searched, I have made amazing friends

and sisters, and joined organizations where I could pursue my inter-
ests. Mostly, I am excited about my next three years; all the things I
can improve on and the memories I will make. Transitions are excit-
ing, and they are hard, but it will all be worthwhile if you make some
true friends to help you along the way and get involved with things
that you are passionate about.

So, to make a long story short, welcome back to a new year at
Washington and Lee. I extend an extra special welcome to freshmen.
Get what you want out of this year, have fun but still open a few
books, andlyou will get the best of what college has to offer.

The Republican National Convention took
place in New York two weeks ago. Here are some of
this Republican’s favorite humorous and substan-
tive quotes from the week.

Rudy Guliani: .
At the time, we believed we would be attacked many
more times that day and in the days that followed.
S p o n t a n e —
ously, I
grabbed the
arm of then
Police Com-
missioner Bernard Kerik and said to Bernie, “Thank
God George Bush is our President.”

And I say it again tonight, “Thank God George
Bush is our President.”

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MOUTEVELIS ‘06

Maybe this explains John Edwards’ need for two
Americas —— one where John Kerry can vote for
something and another where he can vote against
the same thing.

Senator John McCain:
Our choice wasn’t between a benign status quo
End the bloodshed of war. It was between war and

graver threat. Don’t let anyone tell you other-
wise. Not our critics abroad. Not our political op-
ponents. And certainly not a disingenuous ﬁlm
maker who would have us believe that Saddam’s
Iraq was an oasis of peace when in fact it was a
place of indescribable cruelty, torture chambers,
mass graves and prisons that destroyed the lives
of the small children held inside their walls.

Republican wit and wisdom takes ove New Yor

Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger:
To those critics who are so pessimistic about our
economy, I say: “Don’t be economic girlie men!”

Our young men and women in uniform do not be-
lieve there are two Americas! They believe we are
one America and they are ﬁghting for it! We are one
America —— and President Bush is defending it with
all his heart and soul!

Senator Zell Miller:

Never in the history of the world has any soldier
sacriﬁced more for the freedom and liberty of total
strangers than the American soldier. And, our sol-
diers don’t just give freedom abroad, they preserve
it for us here at home.

- This is the man who wants to be the Commander
in Chief of our U.S. Armed Forces? U.S. forces
armed with what? Spitballs?

V1ce—President Dick Cheney:

People tell me that Senator Edwards got picked for
his good looks, his sex appeal, and his great hair. I
say to them, “How do you think I got the job?”

The fanatics who killed some 3,000 of our fellow
Americans may have thought they could attack us
with impunity because terrorists had done so pre-
viously. But if the killers of Sept. 11 thought we had
lost the will to defend our freedom, they did not
know America and they did not know George W.
Bush.

    

Pl-IOVTCOURTESY or DESERETNEWSDOM

AHNOLD. The Govemator was one of many to
speak at the RNC.

President George W. Bush:

People sometimes have to correct my English —— I
knew I had a problem when Arnold Schwarzenegger
started doing it{

This young century will be liberty’s century. By
promoting liberty abroad, we will build a safer
world. By encouraging liberty at home, we will build
a more hopeful America. Like generations before
us, we have a calling from beyond the stars to
stand for freedom. This is the everlasting dream of
America — and tonight, in this place, that dream is
renewed.

Letter to the Editor

Dear Editor,

Your recent article, “Potato man offers
‘Intro to Parties 101,”’ made us feel slightly
bipolar in our response. While we praise
Marshall Rule for his wisdom about class,
the P word, and his lesson on moderation,
we still feel his article left much to be de-
sired in its diatribe against independents.

First, we are all independents and so are
some of our friends, so the article slammed
us like Alabama moonshine. And we are
happy being independents. This is because
we, contrary to popular belief, DO have a
social life. Yes, we occasionally stay in and
have sober movie nights, but we also know
our way around a beer pong table and how
to weave our way to the keg at a crowded
frat house. We are not alone. There are
tons of “Indies” at W&L who wake up w.ith
massive “headaches.”

As a general statement of our beliefs,
we do not have anything against Greek life.
We think both Greeks and Independents are
wonderful. We just used that wonderful
sense of free choice and decided that being
Greek wasn’t for us. However, let me quote,

“By the time you have graduated you will
realize it’s not what srat you were in, but
rather if you enjoyed your four years here.
And that you can do no matter what Greek
organization you joined.” While the con-
cept of being happy agrees with us, the pref-
ace that you must be in a Greek organiza-
tion to be happy does not. We are happy
here (and we are not expecting that to
change) yet we also have no plans to join a
Greek organization-we don’t see this as a
requirement.

Now, for our party standing. The
reason we are #2 is that the Princeton Re-
view is based on student surveys. We very
well may party more than SUNY at Albany -
it’s just that we are proud of other things
besides our party skills. This is what we do
not have in common with our Albany breth-
ren. If you check other non—party related
lists, W&L ranks for Professors Bring Ma-
terial to Life, Beautiful Campus, Happy Stu-
dents, etc. We are blissful, well-adjusted
students that are proud of our academic
prowess as well as how fast our frat boys
can down a garbage can full of grain (ed-
Aren’t we all).

SUNY at Albany has nothing on us.
Their Best 357 rankings read like a badly
produced horror ﬂick - Their Students (Al-
most) Never Study, Long Lines and Red
Tape, Campus is Tiny, Unsightly, or Both,
Dorms Like Dungeons, Is it Food?, Least
Happy Students, and the list goes on. What
else did they have to write in their student
surveys besides their land records at chug-
ging Natty Light?

So you see, having #2 and all the rest
should make us pretty damn proud.

In future, we implore you to turn your
blame on other people who actually deserve
it. Or, become a real journalist, seek out
the independents, and interview/live in
their shoes for a night. Just don’t come
knocking on our door—look for us at the
loudest basement band and the stocked bar.

Sincerely,

Steph Wiechmann ’07
Sheryl Silvers ’07
Kristine Holda ’06
Theresa Dougherty ’07

Better-
14%

  Worse-
20%

49 students pol/ed. Poll has 95% confidence in a +/- 5% margin of error

Phi Quick Poll

“In your opinion, is W/aslzingtorr and Lee better, Worse, or the same as it was

one year ago?”

Same-
41%

Not Sure-
24%

 

 

 

    

PAGE 4



MONDAY, SEIVIEMBER 13, 2004 .

Someone I’m not- People who change to fit the University

Has anyone out there ever
noticed that this place has an
enormous power to change
people? Aside from the Class
of 2008, we’ve all seen that one
freshman, right? You know, the
one who claims to have been a
big drinker in high school, and
starts trying to down x amount
of vodka, whiskey, what have
you? And then it becomes
plainly obvious that the fresh-
man either didn’t drink in high
school, or only had the occa-
sional beer. By the time this
person has left W&L, they’ve
probably come to see alcohol
as not just a
form of enter-
tainment, but a
way of life. It’s
how they tried
to fit in, like the New Yorker
who unsuccessfully tries to
adopt a southern accent.

Or take the case of the girl
who comes in her freshman
year and becomes great friends
with the other girls on her hall.
A seemingly unbreakable bond
is created. Then, rush comes
and goes, and some girls end
up in one sorority, higher up
on the dubious social pecking
order, and some lower. In a lot
of cases, disdain, resentment,
and a false acceptance of the
“truth” of the enmity they’re
supposed to feel for one an-
other take over, and ruin the
friendship. I never cease to be
astonished by the sheer num-
ber of freshmen here of both
genders who place paramount
importance on the particular
frat or srat that they get into.
Not only that, but the sheer in-
tensity of the emotions when

people find out the results of

Rush are surprising. One girll
knew from the Class of 2007
last year cried when she had
to ‘settle’ for what she called a
‘second—rate’ sorority, and I
suspect this scene plays itself
out quite a few times each year.

On the ﬂip side of the coin,
let’s take two roommates, guys
who hunker down in one of
those corner dorms at Graham-

Lees, or something. They be-
come best of friends through
sharing the fun and drama in-
herent to any freshman year.
Then, once again, rush comes
and goes. One ends up in
fraternity x, the other, in fra-
ternity x’s hated rival frat. A
cold silence falls over their
double room, and they start
spending less and less time
with each other while spend-
ing more and more time with
their brothers. By the time
their sophomore year comes,
they’ll probably only speak
to each other rarely, and for-

mally at

MODERATE’S Musmos ‘hat-
Please un-
CALEYANpERsoN‘06 derstand,
before you
c o m p o s e your scath-

ing, brilliantly-worded letters
to the editor, that this is not
an attack on the alcohol cul-
ture of W&L, nor is it an at-
tack on the Greek system, as
we’ve had quite enough of
those in the past year alone.
There are plenty of people
who do not fall for the traps
mentioned above, and these
factors that change people
can indeed change them for
the better. That’s what col-
lege is supposed to do. No
one is the same when they
leave here as they were when
they came in. But there is a
difference between desirable
change and non-desirable
change. Changing your per-
sona from an uncertain, na-
ive high school graduate to a
confident, intelligent college
student is one thing, chang-
ing into a heavy drinker who
parties until 5 four times a
week just because everyone
else does is something else
entirely.

It just seems that enor-
mous peer pressure and a de-
sire to fit in lead people into
far too, many bad decisions
at this University, leaving
aside the exception that many
shy partyphobes have been
broken in by their presence

at the University. Sometimes,
when I read the reports from
last year’s frat investigations,
or when I hear the rumors of
what REALLY happened on
such-and—such a night, I
wonder what could possibly
drive someone to want en-

whatever fraternity it is, but
that can be done without hu-
miliation or quasi-torture, and
really, the appreciation gained
is not one of brotherhood or
friendship, it’s a sort of tribal
pride in having mutually en-
dured the same hazing rituals.

plenty of people who put their
friends first, and their Greek
affiliation second. But it
seems like too many do not.
Too many forsake friend-
ship, activities they like, and
even class in the name of
making sure they fit in.

your social life here. If you
become someone you’re not
for the sake of fitting in,
you’ll be left with next to
nothing once you graduate.

So best of luck to you,
noble freshmen of the class
of 2008. You made a won-

 

X»-mm «aw-m«»,..«.,i-...» ¢V"l1b‘
 .,«.«~.«x «

 

CARTOON BY JERRY GAO

 

trance to a frat so badly that
they’d not only put up with
such nonsense, they’d be en-
thusiastic about it. It’s sup-
posed to be a brotherhood,
not the Citadel. It IS true that
it makes the pledges, sorry,
new members more apprecia-
tive of their acceptance into

Once again, this is not ev-
eryone. There are plenty of
fraternities and sororities that

are truly out to be there for,

their brothers and sisters.
There are plenty of people who
actually gain character from
their exposure to alcohol here,
rather than lose it. There are

; is on«“fin.ding,
...to...“inv.entj.ng.7’

Part of college is, of
course, finding out who you
are. But the emphasis there
” as. opposed
Do not let
Washington & Lee‘ dictate to
you who you must be, be-
cause there are a ton of
things more important‘ than

derful choice in coming

here, but while you explore _ . V

the University and try to
find your niche, lookqaround
you, Make sure that you’re
someone unique. K

E—mail me at
Andersonc @ wlu.edu

paradise.

hazed.

Ups and Downs

Commons- 1‘ Freshmen and sophomores are impressed. I take back what I
said last year. In an ironic reversal, they tore down a parking lot and put up

Class of 2006- 3, Will go down as the last class in W&L history to really be

Women’s V-Ball— ¢——> A disappointing loss in the Invitational, but these
ladies are just now shaking off the rust. Watch out when they get started.
Football- 4» Despite the naysayers, I’m from San Diego, and I know bad
football when I see it. These guys are a lot better than their first game
indicates. Besides, there’s the home opener curse (tm) to consider.
Oprah- +-9 Does anyone else find the contrast of W&L + Oprah very
strange? At least she didn’t mountainboard and churn apple butter.
Wal-Mart— 1‘ Has found SEVERAL employees younger than 60.
Soccer, Men’s and Women’s- 0-» So very, very close.

Calyx-
travesty.

Traveller- T New changes bump up this organization from AAA to the

Major Leagues.

Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson gives you his take on what rose, what tell, and what stayed about the same this week at W&L.

Don Tequila’s- T Remains the best (only) Mexican food in town. Don’t
EVEN say Taco Bell. Don’t even think it.

a

f Classy cover, solid content means recovery from last year’s

Class of 2008- f Higher SATs/Grades than ever before, and they seemed to
move in in half the time that my class did. And that, of course, is the real
measure of any W&L freshman class.
Weather- 1 Pretty bad, but my sympathies go out to the Floridians at W&L,
as well as any Caribbean residents.

E-mailAndersonc@w1u.edu with comments/questions

E _

Write for
Phi Opinions

Andersonc@wlu.edu

<l>

mail

Visit Sweet Things
They are delicious

    

'}$tuLlr:|1L W1‘-=:1!1klr.T§]ll‘]P I.‘

$99‘

l.’¢:.1' Semester

 

1m'».cxn.I«5ime Im.tioml.com

It’s time to exercise something
other than your mind.

Firnllpgaplae no wade outdta: ﬁuuml ardent:
bodgetatd a.b.Iq.- student dtedde 0.Ir.vesis3o-
mi-nulteﬁma omnonsem: wzightloasand all
dnesuppootyw
nud no adtie-we
wuwt

Curve;

I 1- )1-.I 2l.I|l‘1!'V‘. -nut-a-ilv,‘

I’ 5419} 454-5545
780 N Lee Hwy
Lexlngbcm. "v'ﬁL2445U

Ger em bcaﬁotu anaiﬁiiik
'rL..a...s.,ut,.u_L..u,L.d.Jw.|-h.1AJJ1‘_'.‘.§.-,.o+u.,|..a.. Mum .u ..,..|.-,...J....|

Virginia Capital Semester

Make the most of your spring semester with an
exciting internship, challenging college courses,
interesting guest speakers and all the drama of

Virginia politics.

Experience Wginias capital city during the
excitement of a legislative session while continuing
your studies on a full-time basis through course
work at Virginia Commonwealth University — and
earn a $1,000 internship stipend.

/‘

For more information and application:
0 http://www.vcu.edu/capitalsemester;
0 Virginia Capital Semester, L. Douglas Wilder

School of Government and Public Affairs,

P.O. Box 842028, Virginia Commonwealth

University, Richmond, VA 23284-2028, or
0 Contact Professor Ralph Hambrick at

l804l 828-8053, or vac:-3pitalsein@vcu.edu.

o Application deadline is Oct. 1, 2004.

an equal oppnrtuniv/allinnalive action universﬂy

Commoriweal

Un‘iv,ersity

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting specialty Shop
273 Raplline Road
Raphlne, VA 24472
s4o34es22o - 1-8'77-Nfl‘-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of lmic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Call for workshop & ms lntonmtlon.
Halfway between Lexington and Stalmlon
Route 606. Raphine ma. rim-d ma working

farm that afar: "U-PICA ' apporaaniriesfor fmh
fruit when in season.

mrmomamslmmm

On I-81 /I-64 at exit 205. Ranhinr. 4nu'le.t west on 1 ‘

'Il1es-Sat10:00-5:00,Weduntil8:00 i

 

smgm THE Rl§\‘=G-TUMl)l~-ll
mm m P O R‘ I 'S 8
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004 PAGE 5
‘ Vllbllt tk th'd 01148 d fff
O 0 1 Q Q
‘( .
place at W &L Invitationa prevents season opening win
strike from junior quarterback Greg Tweardy (Betliel
A BY SARAH BLOOM W&L SPORTS RELEASE Park, Pa./Bethel Park) to junior wide receiver Clark 1
4 STAFF WMTER Ker-isinger (Columbia, S.C./Oakwood) with 1:42 re-
maimng. The PAT attempt failed producing the fi-
. . ALFRED, N.Y. —— The Washington and Lee rial score.
and Il::eJI:l‘1,:_]:iat:,1 ttI:?SInsa:a:V:1:l‘:e::ivt:a:1:;l1gt0£ football team held Alfred University to just 267 W&L was led by Tweardy, who completed 17-
. . P . . pe yards of total offense, but gained just 148 yards of-42 passes for 157 yards, one touchdown and
‘ agamst the Generals mthe 2004 W&L Inv1.tat1°nal' itself in falling to the Saxons 23-8 on Saturday two interceptions. Senior wide receiver Taylor
1‘ ' After only a prﬁscason warm-up to get adjusted to afternoon in Alfred, N.Y. Callaharn (Atlanta, Ga./McDonogh) caught six

 

  

CHAi)KiEwiErDE]oNGE

a new team, the Generals left the competition win-
ning the consolation bracket. ODAC regulations
prevented the team from training together as early
as some of the other competing teams.

“Coach [Bryan Snyder] does a fabulous job of
making sure that we get some challenging teams to
appear so that we are pushed to our limits,” voiced
sophomore Ashley Hurt. “We start our season
about a week and a half after the teams we com-
peted against, so our first matches are typically
against people who have already been competing
for a few weeks.”

Despite this disadvantage, the Generals still
claimed the third place position. Individually, Jun-
iors Christine Gladysz and Susan Gaillard were
named to the all-tournament team for Washington
and Lee.

On day one of the tournament, the Generals
started off strong, defeating Catholic 30-17, 30-21,
and 30-20. Senior Captain Emily Wolfmg lead the
Generals with 19 kills and 12 digs. Hurt and juniors
Laura Byme and Gladysz also scored big for the
team.

The next match against Christopher Newport,
however, did not end favorably for the Generals.
The Captains defeated the Generals 5-2. This time
Hurt set the tempo for the Generals with 18 kills and
10 digs. Wolfmg again helped lead the charge with
13 kills and 14 digs. Gladysz followed suit, with 42
assists and 12 digs.

Day two very much resembled day one.
Frostburg State defeated the Generals 27-30, 24-30,
30-25, and 22-30. Then, the Generals rebounded to
win against Catholic in the consolation game.

SPIKE. A General goes for a spike during the W&L
Invitational. The team ended up ﬁnishing in third
place.

of the victory. “It was just hard because these
were our first matches and they don’t reﬂect where
we will be at the end of the season.”
The girls look forward to their next chance to
compete against Mary Washington on Thursday.
“After this next week of practice, we’re going
to be ready to go,” said Edmonson. “Our goals are

we have a lot of expectations
coming into other tourna-
ments this year,” said Hurt of
the loss. “We want to win as

4. Roanoke
5. Lynchburg
6. Emory & Henry
7. Eastern Mennonite

Against Frostburg State, Wolﬁng again lead to cut down on unforced and communication er-
the Generals in scoring and rors and mostly we’re going
Gaillard and Gladysz were to have fun and play with
right behind her to carry the / ,\ heart.”
V . . ‘ team. Unfortimately, this was 2004 ODAC Women S
.    not enough to push the Gen-   
- erals ahead of Frostburg. 1. Washington & Lee
' “Although we didn’t 2_ Bridgewater
play as well as we were hop- 3_ Rando|ph_MaCon
4'» ing, the year is young, and

The Generals (0-1) got on the board first
when an Alfred punt snap
went out of the back of the
end zone with 12:32 remain-
ing in the first quarter. W&L
held the lead until Alfred’s
Chris Reynolds nailed a 30-
yard ﬁeld goal to make the
score 3-2 with 4:38 remain-
ing in the opening period.
Reynolds booted two more
field goals in the second
quarter, one of 26 yards and
another from 31 yards to

2004 ODAC Football
Preseason Poll
1. Bridgewater
2. Harnpden-Sydney
3. Emory & Henry

4. Catholic
5. Randolph-Macon
6. Washington & Lee 1
6. Guilford (tie)

 

passes for 75 yards, while junior running back
Michael Lackett (Allenwood,
N.J./Wall Township) carrie d
18 times for 32 yards. Senior
linebacker Lloyd Wilson
(Austin, Texas/Stephen F.
Austin) led the defense with
nine tackles. Sophomore line-
backer Robert Foster
(Brentwood, Tenn./Mont-
gomery Bell) notched four
tackles, a sack and an inter-
ception.

Alfred was led by

give the Saxons (1-0) a 9-2
halftime edge.

After a scoreless third quarter, the Saxons
scored the game’s first touchdown as Chaz Bruce
scored on a 31-yard run with 14:30 remaining.
Bruce then improved the lead to 23-2 on a 40-
yard touchdown run with 7:03 remaining, before
the Generals answered on a 12-yard touchdown

Bruce’s 86 yards and two
touchdowns on 20 carries.
Quarterback Ron Duliba completed 1 1-of-25 passes
for 156 yards and one interception, while Nicholas
Gatto paced the Saxon defense with eight tackles
and three of Alfred’s seven sacks.

Washington and Lee returns to action on Sat-

. urday as it hosts Sewanee for a 1:00 pm contest.

 

every W&L team does.” - - -
The team bounced back, 8' V”-9g"1_|:a Izvegleyan
however, to defeat Catholic ' ul or I
in the consolation round. 10- R‘M Woman 5
_, Wolfmg, Gaillard, Hurt, and 11. Sweet Briar
' ' Gladysz teamed up to bring 12_ |-|o||in5
the Generals to victory. To-
gether, the girls claimed 36 K J -' . .
kills, 35 digs, and 40 assists CHAD KIEWIET DEJONGE / THE RUVG-’IUMPHI
A “We definitely played better at the end of the SERVICE. The men’s tennis team hosted Davidson, George Mason, and James Madison in the W&L Fall
tournament,” said sophomore Lauren Edmonson Classic this past weekend as a fall warmup. ‘
I I
.4.
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITh|S   SponsllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
 Wednesday
‘ii ° M Soccer vs. Southern
Virginia--4
A ° W Soccer at Randolph-
Macon Womens’——4
A.
" The A ti e Join Phi S ortsl A"A"A'”‘ ”°W"
ri qu 1 p .
WIRE LESS INTE RN ET
4,,  | spring Break 2005 in Downtown Lexington
V 1 Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now I
. " '   60- I I
  Lee H| hwa hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
g . Y Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or H S
1 College Square Shopping Center www_s,st,a.,e._c.,m_ > IGH PEED
D PORTABLE
4°'°°° 5‘4“°"e Fe“ For Rent > No LAND LINE REQUIRED
160+ Dealers _
Area's Largest Antique Mall, specializing in used ParentsIAlumni Weekends — Beautifully for more info call:
“ , furniture and "cool" accessories for the “cool" house I'eSf0fed and modernized cabin on 45 acres in
 _ L ' or apartment. mountalns 15 mln. west of Lexington. 
f completely '8 v_ '
There's something for everyone! ;ll;lIBI;I;eAd wrh persiodsantiqutes and tlocatlt art. A  I  Apple Spoken
_ __ -seeps . e ara e ues co age— _ .
‘j - Monday samrday 10 am’ 6 pm’ sleeps 2. Perfect for 2 t: 3 cougples. Private f”"'5e'V'Ce he-Te
' : Sunday 11 °'m°' 6 Pm’ vacation residence occasionally available for '5":  C
‘ (540) 4645555 rent elther weekly or nightly wl 3 nt. min. 17 N_ Randolph Street
call (804) 355-0002.
rt

 

  

PAGE 6

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004

Field hockey drops season opener to Johns Hopkins, 2-0

Even with opening loss, Generals have hope for improved season

CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
SPORTS EDITOR

Although the Field Hockey team opened with
a 2-0 loss to Johns Hopkins (1-2), a team leader has
high hopes for the coming season.

“Hopkins is probably one of the best teams
our program has ever faced. Although we played

them tightly last year, I think that they have im-
proved their game immensely, as have we,” senior
midfielder Kitt Murphy said.

The Blue Jays did not allow the Generals to
take a shot during the first half, and were able to
score in the 16th minute. Junior General goalkeeper
Courtney Harrison made 2 saves during the half.

“Their passing game really enabled them to
control the ball and the ﬂow of the game in the first
half,” Murphy said.

After halftime, however, the Generals picked
up the pace and went on the offensive. The team
combined for six shots in the second half and had
five penalty comers.

WHICH WAY DID IT 60? Sophomore forward Amy Brown focuses on the ball as it rolls past two defenders in the team’s 2-0 loss to johns Hopkins University.

Multiple aspects of the sports world provoke anger, annoyance

My first column of the year actually has quite
an interesting back story. Initially I intended for it
to be my last article last year before evacuating
because, frankly, many of you will be really angry
after reading this. However, I decided that it would
make just as ﬁtting of an introduction for the new
school year. Basically, this is a series of short rants
about the many things in the sports

of professional athletes. Garnett has less college
experience than most W and L students accumu-
lated in their junior year of high school. So stop
listening to him talk and stop getting offended over

nothing!
-Don’t Believe a Public Denial — Whenever an
athlete gets accused of something they always say
they had nothing to do with it. It

world that anger me.....enjoy. sounds like P. Diddy saying he
-The Yankees are ruining base— HEALTHY VENTING had nothing to do with a shoot-
bﬂ — It’s true, it’s not just a buzz RYAN GRHTER ‘O7 . ing, except that his close friend

phrase. Without a salary cap, low-

market teams will never be able to sustain success
like the Yankees. Key word, “SUSTAIN”....yes,
the Marlins and Angels won a World Series each,
but the talent continues to ﬂood into New York and
creates a system where the only way to compete is
to keep up in the arms race as Boston has. There is
supposed to be ebb and ﬂow to teams’ success. In
order to sustain success a team needs great man-
agement that keeps a balance of old players, new
players, homegrown talent, and veteran free agents
as the Braves have for so long. The Yankees really
are the dark empire and Steinbrenner really is
Satar1’s baseball-addicted nephew.

—Get Off Stupid Athlete’s Backs — First Kellen
Winslow declares that he’s a “(expletive deleted)
soldier” and then Garnett joined the ranks. I, for
one, don’t really care. Neither was trying to sug-
gest that sports match the intensity, danger, or im-
portance of warfare. Both were just trying to say
that the other team is their bitter enemy and they’re
playing with great passion. I have the utmost re-
spect for our soldiers, but not for the intelligence

and employee Shyne miiiight
have squeezed a few rounds out. Anyways, Ricky
pulled out Billy Bong Thorton, Ray Lewis had some-
thing to do with the murder, O.J. did it, etc. This is
especially true with supplements and steroids.
Almost all players are suspected of using them,
but in order to even get accused there needs to be
extra evidence that makes it practically obvious.
-Don’t Jump on Bandwagon — This means
that unless you are from New York or Los Angeles
(or have some other direct tie), you have no right
to root for either_the Yankees or the Lakers. This
applies across the board. The Rams became “the
greatest show on Earth” and all of a sudden every-
one had been a fan of them for years. ....what a
coincidence (mutter). Be a hometown fan, be loyal
to your state, city, or region. What makes sports
fun is when your team is beating a friends’, not
when your team of the year, which happens to be
the best, heats up on everybody. There are fans
from St. Louis that earned the joy from that Super
Bowl win, they invested their fandom in the Rams
for years. Frontrunners come in for the good stuff

New Release

County

Signed Sally Mann
& Cy Twombly

We have hundreds of

 

The Bookery

Over 40,000 Bookes, New, Used & Rare!

Rockbridge Heritage
A Photographic Essay of Rockbridge
By Washington and Lee Alumnus (1966)

Thornton “Tim” M. Henry and
his daughter, Ruth Henry Keyes

Unique Books

New, Used, Collectible and Signed

464-3377, 107 W. Nelson St.
Open 7 days a week at 9 a.m.

and skip the bad years that separate a true fan from,
well, a girl. Note: this doesn’t apply to college
sports, where parents’ school can come into play.

-Hocke is the Greatest S on Ever — I’m sorry
I had to deceive you like this, I actually hate hockey
with a passion. I ﬁgured more people would read it
with this heading. Going to games is fun, but watch-
ing it on TV is almost as bad as watching soccer.
Pass, Pass, Pass, Shoot and Miss, Pass,
Pass .... ..snore.

-A Solution for the WNBA — Watching
women’s basketball is like watching a junior high
game except without your son or brother playing.
No one dunks, no one
drives, no one can even re-
ally shoot that great. There-
fore, I suggest they lower
the hoop to 8.5 or 9 feet. Ba-
sically, the game would have
a ton more dunking and
blocked shots, and shoot-
ers would be much better
once they adjusted. I’m not
saying I’d watch, but then I
also didn’t think I'd ever
watch the Outdoor Games.
 I think I’m going to be in trouble for that
one, haha” ~Ron Burgandy

-Driveway Games Deserve a Chance -1 can’t
believe ballroom dancing is an Olympic sport. Per-
sonally, I feel that games such as kickball, wifﬂe
ball, pool baseball, pickle, wallball, and any other
games that you invented in your driveway as a kid
should be Olympic sports as well as professional

 

CHAD KIEWIET DEJONGE / THE RING—TUM PHI

_Watching women’s
basketball is like
Watching a junior high
game except without
your son or brother

playing.

“Our goal for the second half was to go out
and work as a team to take possession and to earn
some short comers,” Murphy said.

Although the team accomplished this goal,
the Generals were not able to get to the back of the
net. The Blue Jay goalkeeper only had to make
one save to retain the shutout.

Johns Hopkins sealed their victory with a goal
in the 56th minute against junior goalkeeper Elise
Gelinas. During the half, Gelinas made three saves.

“Overall I think our team played very well dur-
ing the game and I am very excited for where we
could go this year,” Murphy said. “We got a very
talented group of freshmen this year that will con-
tinue to push this program in the direction it needs
to go.”

Last year the team finished with a 10-9 record
and lost in the ODAC Tournament semifinals to
the ultimate ODAC champion, Eastern Mennonite.

The ODAC preseason poll predicts that the
Generals will finish third in the ODAC’s this sea-
son.

The Generals will travel to Muhlenberg Col-
lege for a 3:00 game next Saturday in search of the
team’s first victory.

5004 ODAC Field Hockey\
Preseason Poll
1. Virginia Wesleyan
2. Eastern Mennonite
3. Washington & Lee
4. Lynchburg
5. Roanoke
6. Randolph-Macon
T7. Bridgewater
T7. Sweet Briar
9. R-M Woman's
10. Hollins

sports. That would be so much fun, just look at
what happened in “Baseketball.”

-lntemational Basketball — International bas-
ketball is constantly changing for the sole pur-
pose of screwing <ahem> sony .... ..”ha.ndicapping”
the U.S. Despite the obvious fact that the U.S. had
a pathetic excuse for a dream team (Lamar Odom
starting at the 4?), we still should win. The three
point line is 3 feet closer and we still couldn't hit
anything, it was sad. But we must remember that
these teams play together so much more and have
chemistry that we can’t create in a few weeks. Hav-
ing said that, it was rather obvious that every ref-
eree was biased against the
U.S. I saw a couple fouls
called on Duncan that only
could have been called
“jumping.” I wasn’t aware
jumping was a foul. So
what’s the solution? Send
the Pistons? Don’t be so
shortsighted. No owner is
going to risk his entire team
as the rest of the league
stays healthy. The only so-
lution is for our stars to fi-
nally become so sick of being the laughingstock
of the Olympics that they actually do something
about it. If Gamett, TMac, Kobe, Vince, and
Jermaine O’Neal care about this country at all
they’ll take this year’s embarrassment personally
and show up in four years ready to shut that an-
noying little prick from Lithuania .... ..Sarunas
J asikevicius (had to look it up for spelling).

Phi Sports - Phi Sports - Phi Sports

Want to
write or
edit for
Phi
Sports?
All
positions
available!

  

 

  

 

’l’_Hl§. li.il\i(3~’l'UMl)H_l
RTS & LIFE
W&L Floridians fight through wind,

rain, ﬂoods to come back to campus

BY JORDAN ANDERSON
SENIOR STAFF warren

With an unusually harsh
hurricane season upon us,
many Washington and Lee
students have experienced
the hardships of dealing
with three hurricanes in a
two month period.

Most recently, Hurri-
cane Frances, packing winds
as strong as 140 mph, dis-
rupted weather patterns
throughout the Eastern Sea-
board, as far south as
Florida and as far north as
Richmond.

Much of the rain experi-
enced during the end of Ori-
entation Week was a
shadow of Frances’ former
self.

John Bovay, a native of
Gainesville, Florida, experi-
enced severe weather -con-
ditions that prompted can-
cellation of classes at the
University of Florida.

Fellow Floridian, Katy
Allen, is also no stranger to
hurricanes.

Growing up in South
Florida, she states that she

 

SAVE A HORSE, RIDE A SEA-D00.

has become accustomed to
the storms. In fact, she
says that the school system
“had about 5 days set aside
at the beginning of the
school year as ‘hurricane
days.’”

Allen and 2.9 million
other Florida residents
were evacuated from their
homes in preparation for

In the wake of Hurricane Frances, the
only feasible mode of transportation for many was a Sea—Doo. Frances
dumped rain from Florida up the Eastern Seaboard.

W&L Bookstore Student Book of
the Week
50 Things You're Not Supposed
to Know (by Russ Kick)

This is the ultimate guide to |ittle—known
truths that The Man doesn't want you
to know. Read the unbelievable stories
_behind 50 little known controversies,
scandals, and oddities.
For example, few people know...-

*One of the Popes wrote an erotic
book-

*We came within minutes of a nuclear
war with Russia in 1995-
*Hit|er’s blood relatives are alive and
well in New York state-

*The Virginia colonists practiced canni-
balism-

*The Supreme Court has ruled that
you are allowed to ingest any drug,
especially if you are an addict.

Regular price: $9.95 Book of the Week Price:

$7.96 (Also, pre-order the sequel, 50 Things

You're Not Supposed to Know, Volume 2, due
in November, for 15% off this week)

 

 
 
 

  

iﬁlﬂtﬂtltl
ngrnrj minus,    

.. ’ .31’ ' .' tin  ‘W-‘

‘ "§"ﬁ’$:‘i"h§'-'6'§'i'I&i'h&%5'5-’§?'E’%'§$§%§I~$5:’h¥§'BH?B$¥§¥5§&W‘k$%5'i:'E"E’Iéﬁ§§'5'5’§$T%. _'

Blue Binge
A   center

.    IO:-I '
" llmelmaeimmzmrsensummmwmnmshawmnwmmmmwm
‘ mm: . ' '2 ' ":
a.emule17aIl%laﬂamment   
1§nmwa“ummw£mnsm£mmeaaeAuaﬂuie.
4» serum  as serum:  4 rear 4» mam rmmamuar «I-
3 new in emu. an 9 cm BWBERIEB as

 

Q  E Tﬁlﬁ 520.5% mi ; gmmrumer. A .5‘ "
  ; nuammsxmellmmr it wmﬂam. as
.  cm ti Stank! It  . §

éuiina "ire-i-r an M ' .'.'..' '

Blue Ridge mil ﬂenter

 §Q3§'fIB-Ida ﬁlllﬁ $3158 "“Bil§3ﬁ‘3 Wiﬁiﬂ, W1 .
3‘ '§"5-55.3%“-‘IIﬁn'5:'5'B'k"k$1u5'§"i'h?h"k"h'i'§5"U'i"k"IIr“h'59b'§ﬂr'k'h5ﬂu‘5'§'i.’$iﬂr‘Is"h'§‘§'h$‘h‘k&$%‘§‘Ir1:'§‘h& '

 

mam:

Heavy traffic caused the
trip to take much longer
than usual.

Sophomore Hank
Gates, a Richmond resi-
dent, returned to Lexington
with his basement at home
completely flooded.

August’s Category 4
Hurricane Charley has of-
ficially claimed 25 lives
and caused over 500 mil-
lion dollars in damages.

Though the South
Florida area seems to get
hit every year, Allen reas-
sures that though “it
seems like a sad way to
live, people are growing
more cautious and aware
of the problem every year,
and they will rebuild...It’s
my home, it’s what I’m
used to.”

South Floridians may
have to wait for that re-
building process. Cat-
egory 5 Hurricane Ivan is
currently battering the
Caribbean Islands, and is
expected to make landfall
anywhere from Biloxi,
Mississipi, to the Florida
Keys on Wednesday.

Hurricane Frances. Though
her house was not hit, some
of Allen’s family members
sustained severe damage.
Hurricane Frances has
also impeded students’ trips
back to Washington and Lee.
Allen and her family had to
leave Florida much earlier
than anticipated as a result
of gasoline shortages.

Lime Kiln Theater
presents award-

winning Bluegrass
musicians this fall

BY SARA DUcKwoRTH
STAFF WRITER

The summer season for Lime Kiln is starting to wind
down, but it ain’t over till it’s over. On September 17,
Gillian Welch and The Old Crow Medicine Show will be
performing. Welch, a Bluegrass singer, has received
Grammy nominations for both her work on the 0 Brother
Where Art Thou? Soundtrack and her record, Time (The
Revelator).We1ch’s newest record, Soul Journey, is her
“sunniest record” to date, but even that has a heart felt
longing to it. A

Her openers, The Old Crow Medicine Show, are suc-
cessful Bluegrass musicians as well. The story of how
they were discovered is a fateful one, not only for the
band but also for Lime Kiln. While the band was out
playing in front of a pharmacy, a woman stopped to ask
if they would be there for awhile because she wanted
her father to hear them. Her father turned out to be the
folk icon Doc Watson, who is the starting point for their
careers and the next performer for the stage. I

Doc Watson is the recipient of the National Medal
of Arts, National Heritage Fellowship, and five Grammy
Awards. Watson is a legendary performer who blends
his traditional Appalachian musical roots with blue-
grass, country, gospel, and blues to create a unique
style with an expansive repertoire.

Tickets for Gillian Welch’s show are $22 reserved,
$18 lawn, and Doc Watson’s are $25 reserved, $23
lawn. Tickets can be ordered at (540)463-3074.

       
  

  mmmﬁesmaa

-Ir 2:»;

 



ﬁ=~-2&1-93??

EMILYEDWARDS
A1ns&L11=EEDn0R

EMAH.-FDwARnsn\i@wLuimU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004

The Iohn W. Elrod

Commons Movie Showings
for Fall 2004

September

SHREK 2
Monday, September, I3 @ 9:30 p.m.
Tuesday & Thursday, September, I4 & I6 @ 9:30 p.m.
THE PASSION
Sunday, September, I9 @ 7:00 p.m.
Monday, September, 20 @ 7:00 p.m.
TROY
Tuesday & Thursday, September, 2| & 22 @ 9:30 p.m.
SPIDER-MAN 2
Monday, September, 27 @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday & Thursday, September, 28 & 30 @ 9:30 p.m.

October

HARRY POTTER & THE PRISONER OF
AZKABAN

Monday, October , 4 @ 7:00 p.m.

Tuesday & Thursday, October , 5 & 7 @ 9:30 p.m.
THE TERMINAL.
Tuesday & Thursday, October , I2 & I4 @ 9:30 p.m.
KING ARTHUR

Monday, October, I8 @ 7:00 p.m.

Tuesday & Thursday, October, I9 & 2l @ 9:30 p.m.
AM!-UIMAN

Monday, October, 25 @ 7:00 p.m.

Tuesday & Thursday, October, 26 & 28 @ 9:30 p.m.

November

THE VILLAGE
Monday, November, I @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November, 2 @ 9:30 p.m.

I 9 BEFORE SUNSET _ 9
Thursday, November, 4 @ 9:30 p.m.
Sunday, November, 7 @ 7:00 p.m.

THE BOURNE SUPREMACY
Monday, November, 8 @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday & Thursday, November, 9 & II @ 9:30 p.m.
COLLATERAL
Monday, November, I5 @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday & Thursday, November, I6 & I8 @ 9:30 p.m.
THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE
Monday, November, 29 @ 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November, 30 @ 9:30 p.m.
Thursday, December, 2 @ 9:30 p.m.

Sponsored by the Elrod University Commons & Student
Activities
Refreshments will be served at a reduced rate

and students
p ri o r i t y

Faculty, staff are given

 

THE

PAGE 8

  

TEE RlNG~TUM PHI

AST ORD

EMILYFDWARDS
AKIS&LlFEEDlIOR ’
EMAi;EDi/ARi1sEi\i@wiiJii)iJ ~‘

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2004

Potato Man suggests revamping campus traditions *

We go to a school that is rich in tradition. One of the
oldest schools in the country, W&L has seen everyone
from Robert E Lee to Pat Green on its beautiful campus.
The Honor System and Secret Societies such as the Ca-
davers continue the tradition of excellence at Washing-
ton and Lee.

While some people seem to hate change in our school,
I on the other hand embrace it. To prove my
point, I have decided to offer alternatives
to our current traditions in order to spice
up life a little at this wonderful institution.

First off, and most importantly, I will
start with the Colonnade Club. For those of you freshmen
who are unaware of the requirements to be a part of this
club, it implies that you hookup with a member of the op-
posite sex in each and every building on the Colonnade.

While I’m sure being a member of this federation would
have proven risque in the olden days, times have changed,
and it is time to up the ante so to speak. So the new re-
quirement is that the person you hook up with has to be
majoring in the same department as the building special-
izes. For instance, a history major in Newcomb, 21 Romance
Languages major in Tucker, and so on and so forth.

What about Washington Hall you ask? Washington
Hall is reserved for faculty. That’s right my little love-

POTATO MAN
MARSHALL RULE

birds, in order to become a member of the new and im-
proved Colonnade Club you must hook up with a faculty
member. Andjust for the fun of it, we’ll allow house moth-
ers to count as faculty. That should make it a little easier.

The next tradition we shall alter is that of the Honor
System. As we all know, the Honor System came under
deep scrutiny last year for numerous reasons. So I offer a
compromise between the EC and the student
body. For one week a year, you are not al-
lowed to tell the truth, do your own work, or
anything else honorable.

Unlike most college students, all year we
must abandon our lives as normal human savages, so I
think we all deserve a week in which we get a release. If
you do not abide by the “Dishonorable Code,” you will be
forced to undergo a ruthless EC trial with expulsion as the
punishment.

That’s right, no more lying to your girlfriend and tell-
ing her you love her (c’mon, we all know it’s a lie. Plagia-
rism on every assignment. Anarchy, complete anarchy...it
will be wonderful.

And there will be no more going to football games all
dressed up. There will be no going to football games at
all! Instead of putting on our pink Brooks Brothers tie
and our monogrammed shirt, why don’t we just keep the

)

1h.'s ._..w¢.~s tplhdt. {NH 5pux¢\ 3" («la cur-7
fresh;-tam) and t.‘*‘''‘‘‘‘’‘' N") (‘V IVA -3“h""h

Wing

ﬁun. ‘V6
Sucks. I an!-

u\'.c~u. 3: ha.
-to wish» 3%

Loans It Jtiun'¢ wen UMIC‘.
1'. an loo mud 0“ ‘W-5'

  
 
 
 
    

clothes on from the night before and party more? Let’s be
honest. On Saturday morning when the game is about to
start, no one actually wants to leave the Gin Bucket. So
let’s just stay and drink. It’s not like we know who wins;
everyone always leaves after the first half. So why should
we even waste our time? Let’s just pass the turkey baster
around all morning long.

And the final item I will change is the Cadavers. The
Cadavers are no more. I mean what is so exciting about
them? They give a lot of money to the school and draw
skulls on campus. Ooooo. Scary.

So instead of the Cadavers, we are going to replace
them with a real secret society. It’s going to be called the '1
Marshalls. The only people that are allowed into my club,
are those named Marshall who are from Idaho. That should
keep the rest of you losers out. iv.

Wait I take that back, I will allow a select amount fresh-
man girls in. But that’ll be it, and trust me we’ll do a lot
more fun things than playing with chalk.

And there you have it. I am going to change this school
for the better. These traditions have worn out their wel-
come at W&L, and it’s time to make some changes. Out
with the old and in with the new.

P.S. If a member of the faculty is reading this, meet me
at Washington Hall at midnight. 4.

   

    
    
  
  

  

om» ‘tau-j punch.

‘X.

By:
David I
S eifert

  
  

Mark

in‘... as out it‘! 3 ‘
I. may. :5. on our.

 
 
 
  
  

 
  
 

pfgrmsw . I was wasted
AM hw¥u\ no Ntﬂt *0‘
o\\3¢X- ttﬁhh

v

  

 

Grobmyer

 

 

 

 

can you 5:. litvc u
A 5 cm. at ‘llama
d °
ll.
St h A
O .
Lipscomb A *~
- L‘
(I3 Ilust Wanted t0 make the faculty awafe (1) What’s up with the aqua doors? Mrs. (I3 IS your Vehicle 011 the list Of 1Tl0St-
that we take 4 classes, not 1. Lee must be rolling in her grave. stolen vehicles? . ,.
Q Jeb Brooks has broken his toe. Send (1) Susan Summers does not equal Susan (I) Vent your anger, It Wm make you fool
him ﬂowers or painkillers- your choice. Some“ boner, 1adios_
(1) Dean Leehafdi the ultimate authority ‘I, Why do wot towels not my in woods (I) Survey: do you prefer XM or Sirius up
when you need permission to go on a date. Creek? satellite radio? ’
_ _ G) W110 iSn’t excited about the new (I, 1 Saw Wajkcr Humphrey last night, and G3 Yesterday was National Grandparents
Ttavehet bus? he had a Southern accent. Impressive. Day. What did you d0 about it?
‘ "k
Q Rest easy this evening: Brett Kirwan is (I) Are we having Buffalo Creek this year? (I) M ore on Grandparents Day_ it was
in the Navy, bravely defending our country. founded in ‘west Virginia
(I) Wows The Wheeler SPaIkS, Dan FaSSi0, . Q Who wears heels to a country party?
« Wh d b thr d . . .
Pete Jeuesa Jared Meyer Baud 15 talented and give toilet y 0? oys ow pames an not They sink! Defimtely not the way to impress (I) Sat11rday’s Tim McGraw concert in p,
atttaet1Ve- paper‘ upperclass girls. Ro
anoke was awesome. -
(I) stupidest Y:/ords of the Wed?’ heard on. (D « - Congratulations tt) the new members of (I) D°e5 auyuhe else haye thfﬁeulty (1) Helen Hughes subscribes to the Phi.
Traveller dispatch: Good, if that car s not here in the Rtthhg team‘ Beat H°h1u3- sleeping after they’ve been drinking? This You Should too
10 minutes, I’m gonna drive home drunk, I’ve got business of waking up at 7am is no good_ ' A
my keys in my hand,” Q Will they ever put up the goalposts on _ _ _
9 _ , , , (I) W&L hired another new vice president?
the f°°thah ﬁeld‘ Q Jessica Simpson is my fashion role . .
(I) Remember kids, body language is model What does tlns one do now, other than raise our
important in volasquogs o1aSS_ Q How much time has Marshall Rule spent ' tuition?
in the gym this week? Q While we’re on the subject, Ashlee >4
Q Sober drivers who park brieﬂy near ‘L _ _ Simpson is a much better singer than her sister. (I) Go 566 Second Qty comedy troupe at - '
County Seat will be fined $76. Great message to ‘I’ Happy 24m Bmhday to our favorite Boy the Lehfest Cehter oh W°dh°Sday- They,” really
all the sober drivers out there. ' Meet‘ Woﬂd a°t°r' Be“ Savage‘ Q Can Usher make a music video in which funny-
, he does not strip?
Q What was up with the last edition of The Q As of today, Beverly Hills 90210 will no (1) E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to 5 ,
Trident? Why were there no words on the front longer be airing in syndication on FX. Tragic. (I) Is inhalablo alcohol a good idoa? phi@w1u,edu_ ‘ ' A ’

page?

