’7  £37.52’/55

WHAT’S INSIDE

The Guy Next Door
Jonathan Proctor speaks to the W&L
community about the offensive

_4I

pictures that surfaced
online last
week
featuring
VMI cadets.

Seemore
onpage4

 
 
   
  

Root of all evil

Marshall Rule reviews the “high
energy non-stop party” held at the
Pavilion last Thursday featuring
popular band The Roots.

See moreon page 4

 

HOT TICKET

Das Stage

German 332 students take to the
Johnson stage in “Ma'rschenwald,” a
play combining a variety of fairytales
in which the actors speak in German.
The play runs on February 7-9 at 8:00
p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

Go Fish

Underwater animated feature “Shark
Tale” runs in the Commons Theater
on Mon. Feb. 7, at 7:00 p.m., as well
as on Tues. Feb. 8, Thurs. Feb. 10,
and Fri. Feb. 11, at 9:30 p.m.

FROM THE 

SummaryofHonorActivityfor
the2004-2005AcademicYear
February 1,2005

Ilnvestigationsz 9
-Withdrawals while being
Investigated: 0

IWithdrawals in Face of a Closed
Hearing: 1

-Closed Hearings:,3

-Guilty Verdicts in Closed
Hearings: 0

INot Guilty Verdicts in Closed
-Hearings: 3

lStudent Body Hearings: 0

QUICK POLL

Qzwhatisthebestplaoe
toeatin Lexington?

   
 

SOUTHERN INN
CAFE MICHEL

  

ms amcx
C’  if HOUSE
DON TEQUlLA’S

57 students polled, 27 male, 30 female.
Poll has 95% confidence in a +/- 5% margin oi error.

 

   
 

Former Phi editor returns 

ByEIinJIliusmdCtIisLaidermm
EJTGSIN-G193

Former sports editor of The Ring-
tum Phi was back in town this weekend
for the Board of Trustee’s meeting and to
sign his latest novel, I Am Charlotte
Simmons.

Tom Wolfe discussed the writing of
his novels, fraternity life at Washington
and Lee and the direction of the journalism
profession in a press conference Saturday.

In researching college life for I Am
Charlotte Simmons, Wolfe did not spend
time at his alma mater.

“I wanted a safe harbor to come
back to,” Wolfe said.

He did admit that the novel drew
upon fraternity life.

As for whether the novel is an
adequate description of college life, “I was
as accurate as I could be,” he said.

In doing his research, Wolfe was
most fascinated with women’s language
on college campuses. He said he was
particularly shocked by vulgar phrases
such as “I need to get laid” and “I scored
with him.” '

“To hear a girl say, ‘I scored so—and—
so’—big deal,” Wolfe said, “maybe it’s a
big deal if it’s the other way around.”

Wolfe said he is looking forward to
coming back to campus as the
commencement speaker this year. “I am
bowled over by that. To be chosen to break
with that tradition...I consider it an
honor,” he said.

4
I

CORBIN BLACKFORDI PHOTO EDITOR

Ce|ebIatedauﬂ1ora1dW&LalumTomWoliereiumedforabooksig1ingandto

ohatwiihtheW&Lcommunity.

Grade inﬂation was something
Wolfe noticed throughout the Ivy League
schools when he was researching for his
novel. “Even a ﬂat B is looked upon these

A days as close to an  Wolfe said.

He cited the example of a Harvard
professor who gave students two grades———
one, never below a B, went to the registrar

and another, reﬂecting the student’s true
abilities, was only shared with the student.

Big—time college sports play a big
role in I Am Charlotte Simmons. Wolfe
expressed dismay over the state of college-
level Division I sports. “This system
cannot go on much longer,” he said, “the
corruption is so manifest.”

 

R552
W103!
V °— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
THE RING=T UM PHI.
N|0M)AY,FEBRUARY7,ZI5 BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLlMlEC’ValTtllvBER2'I7)!

Wolfe proposed a system in which
big universities hire athletes to play sports.
The athletes would not be students, and
after four years, if such athletes cannot go
pro, the university would then offer them
a free four—year education. Wolfe said the
athletes would take academics more
seriously after failing to go pro.

Though Wolfe spent a lot of time
reporting for I Am Charlotte Simmons, he
believes the novel as a genre is dead.’ “The
novel is in serious trouble,” Wolfe said,
“All the great American novels were based
on reporting. There is now too much
emphasis on psychological nuance.”

As a Phi Kappa Sigma at
Washington and Lee, Wolfe chose not to
drink. “I felt it was immoral. . .I was not a
rebellious son,” he said.

“I don’t remember feeling socially
immobilized...but it upset a lot of my
fraternity members,” he said. One
fraternity brother got down on his knees
and begged Wolfe to drink. I

“I was ruining the reputation of the
whole place. It didn’t help that I wore a
fedora.”

In modern college life, Wolfe said,
“Student behavior was pretty uniform,
whether at Stanford or Florida.”

As for students’ alcohol
consumption, “This new term
today. . .binge drinking. . .in the past there
was just no term for it,” he said.

Though he spent months on college
campuses, “I have no idea what could be
done about college drinking,” Wolfe said,
“much of it is insanity.”

Underage drinkin

BVVV”m9VD“"V
sr~=I=wmEn

In late December 2004, President
Thomas Burish, sent a letter to students
and their parents regarding the
enforcement of the school’s alcohol policy.

As Burish emphasized in this letter,
“...there are no new rules governing
alcohol (and drug) use on campus.” The
new enforcement, which began Christmas
Weekend, included two major changes.
First, it gave the security officers at the
school the power to “write up” underage
drinkers, and second, in conjunction with
the IFC, it implemented the use of
wristbands to designate students of age to
drink at on—campus parties.

i The policy caused widespread
uproar and debate among students at the
time; among major concerns were
increased off—campus drinking, more
secretive behavior with regards to alcohol,
and other safety issues, including
increased danger of sexual assault as a
result of these actions.

These concerns, however, were
speculative. Almost two months since the
po1icy’s institution, new issues have arisen
among the student body, including the
ramiﬁcations of drinking under the Honor
System.

One Executive Committee
representative, who preferred to remain

anonymous, said, “Underage drinking has
been an area that the Executive Committee
has traditionally found to be irrelevant to
the question of honor.”

This mentality, however, may be
forced to change in light of the university’s
new scrutiny. While the use of wristbands
may have, in theory, seemed to be an
effective approach to curbing underage
drinking, it has been less than successful
in reality.

This is partially because once a
student has been carded by a TIPS
bartender and has received a wristband,
that student will not be carded again.
Knowing this to be the practice, many
underage students have been able to
procure wristbands and drink at on-
campus parties without being asked to
show ID.

The EC representative said, “The
new alcohol policy creates the question,
‘Is it an honor violation to wear a
wristband underage?’ Ifthe answer to this
question is yes, then the new alcohol
policy may create a plethora of honor
violations.”

Is wearing a, wristband when
underage a common practice at on—carnpus
parties? Mary Catherine Burdine ’08
thinks so. “Since the entire campus is in

i an uproar, most people underage will drink

underage. People don’t want to change
their habits, it’s a lifestyle we’re used to.”

Courtney Dolaway ‘08 agreed with
Burdine, saying that she has not seen

debate continues

anyone lie outright but has seen underage
students obtain alcohol by using a
wristband.

A W&L sophomore, who preferred
to stay anonymous, disagrees. “I don’t
think that’s much of an issue. . .if someone
underage wants a drink, they can pretty
easily just get one from someone who is
old enough.”

“I think the temptation is greater
[under the new system], but I have yet to
notice someone tell the bartender they are
21 if they are not,” said one freshman, who
requested anonymity. “I know I have
wanted to lie, but I never have.”

The EC representative remains
skeptical that students will face honor
violations as a result of the new policy, at
least for the moment. “It seems difﬂcult
to convict a student of an honor violation
just because a new policy has forced him/
her to be more blatant about what was once
a tacitly acceptable practice.

“So far, there has been little issue
with the new alcohol policy, because it has
been enforced weakly. But if it is enforced
strongly, and many underage students wear
wristbands at parties, then it will be up to
the Executive Committee to gauge
whether the student body feels that
wearing a wristband underage to get beer
at a frat party is an honor violation."

“They [the students] are going to
drink,” said Dolaway. “People want to
drink, and they won’t follow the Honor
System if it keeps them from doing

something that they want.”

“The Honor System adapts to
changing circumstances and it will
certainly transform to accommodate the
demands of the new alcohol system at
W&L,” one sophomore said.

“The temptation is there,’ said
another freshman. “But instead of
breaking the honor code, I think people
will work around it [the alcohol policy].”

According to the EC representative,
“It remains to be seen how the Honor
System as a whole will react to the alcohol
policy. The alcohol policy renews the
question as to whether the Honor System
should enforce purely academic honor.”

“Academically speaking, with
personal property, with people leaving
their doors unlocked...that will stay the
same,” Burdine said. “But [students’
mentality about] parties, alcohol,
possession under 21 and drinking in the
dorms is going to change.”

“No one, at Washington and Lee or
elsewhere, has all the answers to the
problem of alcohol misuse,” Burish said
in the conclusion of his letter outlining the
alcohol policy. He noted that the
administration is planning a thorough
evaluation during the next academic year
of the current alcohol policies, and that
this review will include student opinions.

President Burish and the Executive
Committee were contacted to provide
comment for this article but were unable
to do so before our deadline.

7

Homebound student program limited

Students run into issues of frustration due to educational disadvantages

ByLed1Kersmw
SEl~U=tSTAFFWFiiTEFi

In 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court
made its landmark decision in Brown v.
Board of Education, stating that separate
but equal schools are inherently unequal.
In Rockbridge County, another form of
inequality exists for/students forced by
illness to remain at home.

The homebound student program is
designed for students who are mentally or
physically ill and will be absent from
school for two weeks or longer. The
student’s absence from school must be
approved by a medical doctor. This
absence is granted to students who expect
to return to school in the near future.

The average high school student
attends classes for 36 hours per week. The

Virginia Department of Education states
that high school students receiving
homebound instruction must be tutored for
a minimum of 10 hours per week in three
or four subjects. In Rockbridge County,
however, high school students receive a
maximum of 10 hours per week.

Deborah Pruett, a guidance
counselor at Rockbridge County High
School, said that school systems are
financially strapped and have limited
funds to devote to the homebound
program. She also said that since students
are able to learn more effectively with one-
on-one instruction, the hunted number of
tutoring hours available to homebound
students is not a major issue.

But Karen Pleva, a veteran
homebound tutor for Rockbridge County
schools, said that the time limit hurts
students who cannot work on their own.

Homebound students find the
experience of learning at home to be lonely
and frustrating. Joe Hawes, a freshman at
Washington and Lee University, was a
homebound student for the last four
months of his senior year at Rockbridge
County High School. Complications of
diabetes forced Hawes to miss the majority
of his last two years of high school.
Struggling with chronic sickness and
falling behind in his school work, Hawes
received homebound instruction so that he
could graduate with his class.

Hawes said that he was hesitant to
go on homebound because it would have
taken him from all of his friends. He
missed participating in classroom
discussions and bonding events, like the
senior trip to Busch Gardens in
Williarnsburg, Va.

“I didn’t see my friends for months

on end,” Hawes said.

According to Pruett, five to ten
students participate in Rockbridge County
High School's homebound program every
year. The school also provides homebound
tutors to students who are new ‘mothers
for up to six weeks after they give birth.

Pruett said that Rockbridge County
High School administrators try to limit a
student’s absence from school to less than
three months because they may begin to
lose their motivation after a longer
absence. She said that this can be
problematic because the homebound
students are supposed to be learning the
same amount of material at home as they
would in a classroom. She also said that
when homebound students do not learn as
much as they are supposed to, they fall

Seel.OCALonpage2

 

MGVDAY. FEBRUARY 7,215

Consumer Reports health policy editor 3
calls for nationalized healthcare system

ByCIrisLa1dennm
 E

In Santa Cruz, California, Laura is
diagnosed with breast cancer and carmot
afford $110 a month for medicine on her
$860 a month salary. Keshawn, in
Washington DC was diagnosed with nasal
cancer at age 20, but dies at 21 because he
couldn’t get the care he needed.

According to Trudy Lieberman,
Health Policy Editor of Consumer
Reports, who spoke in the Washington and
Lee University Commons on Feb. 2,
healthcare has become a luxury and is
available only to those who can pay in
America. People like Laura and Keshawn
do not have access to medical care.

Lieberman called for nationalized
health care in her lecture. She pointed out
that every industrialized nation has a
nationalized plan except for the United
States.

“No other healthcare system costs
as much as ours and covers so little,”
Lieberman said.

She also said that price controls
were needed in the healthcare industry.
Price controls, for example, mean that a
certain drug can cost only so much money.
According to Lieberman, we can’t let
markets control the price of healthcare.
When economists speak of a “free market
economy” they are saying that people
demand healthcare and that it is supplied
by hospitals and insurance companies.
The people demanding and the companies
supplying settle on a price that people are
willing to pay and a price that the hospitals
are willing to accept. This fundamental

“No other healthcare system costs as much as
ours and covers so little.”

-TRLDYLEBEFKNIAMI-EALTHPOI.K2‘YEI3I'TOROFCONSUN$REPORl$

 

principal forms the capitalist society.
Many consider price controls to be
communist philosophy, but proponents of
price controls say that they can work in
our economic system.

“There is a reason for price
controls,” Tim Diette, a visiting Professor
of Economics at Washington and Lee, who
was attending the lecture, said. “If people
shopped for hospitals, it [a free market
economy] would work, but that doesn’t
happen.”

He went on to say that the market
for health care becomes imperfect because
of this consumer apathy. If people do not
gather information, they cannot choose the
service they are receiving. No one has time
to shop for hospitals from the back of an
ambulance. Patients go wherever the
ambulance takes them.

What’s more, pharmaceutical
companies who are sole providers of a
drug are often able to raise prices as high
as possible.

Lieberman explained what her talk
means to the average American. She said
that eventually, more people than just
Laura and Keshawn will experience the
healthcare crunch. According to
Lieberman, consumer-driven health plans
are the wave of the future. These plans
mean more than just higher co-pay at

doctor visits. Consumer-driven health
plans, for example, would have a patient
pay the first $5000 of medical bills—
essentially high-deductible insurance.

“Who can buy these?” Lieberman
asked. “Not the uninsured.”

Despite that fact, she said
politicians, the current administration, and
the insurance industry are all supportive
of consumer driven health plans.

She told the story of a doctor in
Florida who “blackmailed” his patients.
In order for him to keep seeing them, he
required a $125 fee from his patients to
pay for his malpractice insurance.
Lieberman said this will become a trend
that America cannot afford.

She asked, “Where does that leave
us as a country?”

The answer she posed was to “think
about me.” Everyone needs to think about
themselves and what they would do on
their own behalves. She asked if her
audience wanted a country where only the
rich could attain beneﬁts.

Lieberman’s speech was received
well with an ovation by the audience.

“It’s really pertinent to our future,”
Matt Reilley ‘06, a neuroscience/computer
science double major, said. ‘‘If the current
system cannot hold up for ten years, we
are going to have major problems.”

Local homebound  

students, continued.

Caauadaununﬁmmge
behind academically, which

makes reentry into the classroom
difﬁcult. . A

Pleva, who has 28 years of .

experience, said homebound tutoring
can be clifficultjespeciaily if a student
isn’t interested. and doesn’t want to

complete his or her work. But she said A

that when a student does succeed, it is
always satisfying. .

’ I-lomebouind students are forced
to rely on the cooperation between
their tutors and teachers. Sarah
Blaekoum. a guidance counselor at
Rockbridge County High School, said
that some teachers resent the
homebound program because it puts
an extra burden  them to create and
grade ‘assignments for the students.

Beth Lollis, a math teacher at

Rockbridge County High School, said I

homebound students can be
problematic because it can be hard to
connect with the tutors, especially if
theyedo not work at RCHS. The
personal connection between teacher
and tutor is important because it
ensures that they know each other’s
expectations’.

“Homebound is not a good
situation, especially in math, because
the student comes back to school and
I have to reteach the information to
him or her,” she said.

Lollis teaches a student who

was homebound from November to
January. The student has now
returned to school, but she did not
regularly meet with her homebound
tutor and has not yet fulﬁlled the
requirements from last semester.
Loilis said that she is now in a hard
position regarding the student's grade
and is unsure of the proper action to
take.

Homebound tutoring is hard to
depend on for a steady income
because of the variability of students
needs. Susan Dittman, who works as
a K42 tutor for all Rockbridge
County public schoois. said it is

— impossible to predict how many

students you will have at a particular '
time and how many hours each
student will need you. Only two of

' Dittmarfs students have used the full

10 hours per week allotted to them.

Dittman said cooperation from
teachers can be problematic because
tutors have to seek out some of the
teachers to get the assignments for the
students. The $18 per hour that each
tutor cams does not apply to travel
time or time used to track down a
student’s teachers for assignments,
which can be considerable if the tutor
does not live or work near their
students’ schools.

“The expectations of
homebound tutors are unclear and the
level of cooperation that you will
receive from teachers is uncertain,”
Dittman said.

o

to March 1.

  W£i.[ll to bettorite 21 rloctor.“

eality

For more informatiorz, visit www.jh»o.edufpos.tbao or eat!
41 6-5.1 B-7748.

 dorm have the
,_ required coiirses for
. medical school,”

The Jolrms Hopkins F"o.st-Bac:calaur’eato Premedical Program
prepares college graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the best medical schools: by giving them the

personal attention, the oecessary science and math courses.
and one-to-one acacleniic advising.

if you or someone you know wants to pursue a career as a
doctor, apply during the application period of September 1,

JOHS    Om

s

Post-Basr:aI aure.acle
Preraeldical Program

7‘

1.

Jr

MG‘lDAY,FEBRUARY7,ZX5

SDO

 

THERING-TUM PHI 0 3

THIS WEEK

WEI}ESDAY, FEB.9
-Men’s Basketball vs. E&H; 7:00

FRIDAY, F$.11
IRiding at RMWC/LC; TBA

SATURDAY, FEB.12

.Wrestling at Baptist Bible; 12:00
-Women’s Basketball vs. Hollins;
2:00

-Men’s Backetball at EMU; 7:00

SPORTS BRIEFS

Trackcomperesatvmrvwmer
Re|aVS(2/5)

The Washington and Lee track and
ﬁeld teams were in action at the
Virginia Military Institute (VMI)
Winter Relays on Saturday afternoon.
The Generals competed against
Division I and III competition and had
10 first place finishes.

WreeﬂingCompetnsatW&L
QUa¢*‘an9U|af(25)

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team went 1-2 at the W&L
Quadrangular on Saturday afternoon.
They defeated Albright College, 46-6,
but lost to Centennial Conference-
rival Johns Hopkins, 27-19, and
Limestone, 22-19.

Men’sTennis FallstoFun'nan,7-0
(25)

p The Washington and Lee men’s tennis
team opened its spring season with a
7-0 loss to Division I Furrnan on
Saturday afternoon in Greenville, S.C.

 

Courtesy Sports Information

Wornen’s Basketball Fallsto
RMWC,69-59(2/5)

Sophomore guard Annie Johnson
scored a career-high 32 points to lift
Randolph-Macon W0man’s College to
a 69-59 win over Washington and Lee
in ODAC women’s basketball action
on Saturday afternoon.

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
. Kuitahg Specialty 5'10!’

273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472

540-348-5220 - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits. needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Intemet accessibility made easy.

Calforworkshop&dassinformation.

Halfway between lexington and Staunton
07: I-81 / I-64 at ext‘! 205, Ranhina 4miles west on
Route  Raphine Road. Located (ma WOVHWS
fam that oﬁers "U-PICA" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

'llies - ‘Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00

Mens’ basketball comes out strong

BvBrvanGa|es

STAFFWHTE?

The men’s basketball team played
possibly their best opening half of the year
in their game against Hampton-Sydney on
Saturday, February 5th. Unfortunately,
they were unable to keep it up in the
second half, falling to H-SC 81-75.. g

The Generals sprinted into the
locker room with a 46-37 lead, led by
sophomore point guard Chris Halkitis.
Halkitis was unstoppable early in the
game, hitting his first ﬁve shots, including
four three—pointers. The Generals as a
team shot well in the half, hitting over

62%of their shots from the ﬁeld.

The second half started off with a
hook shot by freshman forward Femi
Kusimo, extending the lead to 11 points.
The game quickly became close again,
though, after a 14-2 run by the Tigers.
After numerous lead changes, the game
was tied by freshman John Mumper’s
jumper with seven rriinutes to play. That

~was as close as the Generals would get

for the rest of the game, as the Tigers soon

took the lead and held on for the rest of
the game. In the second half, The Generals
shot poorly from the free throw line (7-
15, 46%), while Hampton—Sydney’s
scorers turned it on, shooting 58%. They
were led by freshman Drew Prehmus, who
shot 6 of 10 in the game, with 18 points
and 4 assists. Prehmus struggled in the
first half, scoring only three points, and,
in his post-game interview, credited
Kusimo’s tough defense for the slow start.

Strong performances from the
Generals were also provided by senior
Mike Stuart (11 points, 3 assists) and
freshman Greg Bienemann (15 points).
The Generals showed improvement from
their last game against Hampton-Sydney,
which they lost 85-54. Hampton-Sydney,
a perennial ODAC powerhouse, has won
the last 16 meetings between the two
teams.

W&L’s last home game will be
Wednesday, February 9th, against Emory
& Henry. They will finish up their season
at Eastern Mennonite (Saturday, February
12th) and at Guilford (Tuesday, February
15th).

Sahar Kamali / Staff Photographer

FElVIKUSIVll'l1-HOWSl.PALAYUPASTKiERDE=ENDERSLOOKON.

Hunsinger brings
competitive drive to court

ByKwIynKrd
STAFFWHTB? L

With high ﬂying post moves,
soaiiiig mboundsiand 'n.nnnaatng‘§n¢t
blocking, center Jessica Hunsinger is an
essential contributor to the success of
the women’s basketball team and is on
the way tomaking a name for herself
in college basketball. On the season,
Hunsinger is the team leader in
rebounding, averaging 8.6 pulls a game.
She also drops in an average of 12.3
points. Her consistency is evidenced
by her high shooting percentage which
is often around ﬁfty percent. In addition
to the stats that show up on paper,
Hunsinger also provides the intangibles.
Her six foot height intimidates opposing
players and closes down the center. She
enjoys defense because “blocking
people is really fun.” Last season,
Hunsinger was second all—time at W&L,
recording 51 single—season blocks.

Jessica Hunsinger grew up in
Mayer, Arizona. She began to play the
game of basketball in sixth grade. “I was
largely motivated by family," said
Hunsinger, “my dad had been trying to
make me a super star athlete of any kind

. since I was kid. I have always been
pretty tall and so basketball seemed like
a natural choice.”

At Orrne High School, Hunsinger
starred in both volleyball and
basketball. In her senior year, she was
named MVP of both teams, but chose
to pursue basketball in college. She
explained, “I prefer a game in which
you have directcontact with your
opponents.” W&L was her choice
because of a strong academic reputation
and because it allowed her to get out of
the desert.

Huiisingefs strengths on the

team are her competitiveness and her

. willingness to work hard. She has been

competitive since the very beginning of
her basketball career. “I was taller then
most of the boys in elementary and
middle school and so it was always fun
to beat them.” Her aggressive nature
was most evident this year when she got
an intentional foul for holding onto an
opponent’s leg. “At the moment I didn’t
care and just didn’t want to lose,” she
explained. Weaknesses include poor
free throw shooting and predictability
in the post. Her offensive output more
than makes up for these. “My favorite
post move includes a head fake, one
dribble middle, spin move, lay-up. I
don’t know if there is a name for it and
it is a work in progress for me but I
ﬁnally pulled it out in a game and was
very excit ” said Hunsinger.

I Hunsinger attributes her success
to many factors. “My greatest
inspiration or mentor is my dad. I don’t
think he was ever a. super athlete but
[he} has also taught me to work hard
which has proven very useful on the
basketballlcourt,” she said. Also, the
captains of the team, Bethany Dannelly
and Louisa Feve, are a source of
motivation to Hunsinger: “Their work
ethic and drive to win is inspirational,
which has made me a more dedicated
athlete.” She also thanks her coaches

_ for their skill and patience.

Besides basketball, Hunsinger is
involved in many other aspects of
campus life. She is a psychology major
who plans to pursue a career in social
services ﬁeld after college. She is the
Social and Support Services Contact for
the Nabors Service League. Hunsinger» A
is a member of Chi Omega. She ‘
volunteers at the Department of Social
Services and helps out at the preschool
of Central Elementary.

 

_ “I was taller then most of
the boys in elementary and
middle school and so it was
always fun to beat them. ”

-«wsical-I.I1s'hgeI'

Caley offers musings

ByCdeyAnderson

CPl\K]\JSE3lTU3

New York Mets-

The Mets apparently do their
shopping these days at the Discount
Superstar Warehouse. The only quality
young blood they’ve added has been
Carlos Beltran, who will doubtless be a
force. But on the other hand, they’ve
already signed Pedro Martinez, who I’d
wager (if I didn’t have that injunction
against breaking the laws of the Great
Commonwealth of Virginia) will not last
another four years without his arm falling
from the rest of his body. And they already
employ/are targeting Galarraga,
Mientkiewicz, Glavine, and Piazza?
Discount Superstar Warehouse. The Mets
should beware, lest they end up in salary
cap hell like the 49ers.

NBA-

When I was a kid, I had to pick a
favorite hockey and basketball team, since
San Diego hasn’t had basketball or hockey
since 1984. I picked the Tampa Bay
Lightning for hockey, since lightning was
kind of like the lightning of the Chargers.
For the NBA, I picked the Seattle Sonics,
because they had the most green in their
team uniforms, and I was way into green
when I was a kid. Last year, the Lightning
were NHL champions, and I am going to
boldly predict the Sonics will likewise
make my non-San Diego championship
dreams come true this year. They have an

amazing amount of depth- Ray Allen and
Rashard Lewis are starters, and Vladimir
Radmanovic and Luke Ridnour actually
spend a lot of time ON THE BENCH,
when both of those players would likely
be full starters for, say, the Clippers (who
actually have risen to be just mediocre this
year, instead of terrible). They’ll have a
hard time becoming a dynasty, though, the
Phoenix Suns and the Miami Heat nip at
their heels even now.

NHL-

They’ve got the National part down,
and they’ve also got the League part down,
now all they need 'is the hockey.
Negotiations are as futile as they were
between the North and South in the
American Civil War/War of Northern
Aggression/War of the Southern
Rebellion/whatever. Seriously.

The League and the Players’
Association would be shooting at each
other right now if they-were countries- they
just cannot agree on the fundamentals for
the way the league should be set up.

The owners have a legitimate

-complaint (i.e., that they can’t make

money the way the league is presently set
up), but their solution is too idealistic, and
the players’ counter-solution doesn’t ﬁx
the problem at all. It’s difﬁcult to see any
professional hockey this year, or even next
year.

On the plus side, that wouldiallow
the Tampa Bay Lightning to boast of their
three-year reign as NHL Champions.

Track takes nine D—III Titles

BySa'a1Bloom

SEN%SPCHl'SVVFITE?

Sophomore Blair Haws and Senior
Steve Chambers led their respective track
teams in scoring this weekend at the
Virginia Military Institute Winter Relays.
Teams ranged from Division I to Division
III. The Generals claimed 9 Division III
first place finishes.

Chambers won the 3000 meters,
becoming the only individual Washington
and Lee athlete to win an event in overall
competition at the meet. Teammate senior
Norman Senior led the team in scoring with
his DIH first place ﬁnish in the 400 meters.

In the field events, senior Chris
Walker claimed the Division IH title in
the shot put and sophomore Walker
Duncan ﬁnished first in the 35lb weight
throw.

“Everyone’s goal from meet to meet
was to better their performance from the
week before,” said Walker. “We just
wanted to make a statement to the other
ODAC teams.”

Jumper Mike Stanton was also the
2"“ DIII ﬁnisher in his first ever high jump
attempt.

Haws claimed the DIH 800 meter
and one mile run, setting the pace for the
women’s team. Overall, she placed a
competitive 2"‘ in the 800 meters and 4"‘
in the mile. Sophomore Sara
Behmerwohld followed suite, finishing
first in the 55—meter hurdles and claimed
a close second in the 400m.

Behmerwohld teamed up with Kim
Gunst, Huntley Rodes, and Casey Sharpe
to win the overall title in the 4 by 400
meter relay.

Freshman jumper, Lil Brandler won
the pole vault and placed 2"“ in the high
jump. “Lil Brandler is doing some really
wonderful stuff, out there setting school
records,” said senior teammate Chris
Walker.

After the meet, Walker went on to
say: “For a small team, W&L track works
like none other. I have a feeling that our
quality throughout the roster this year will
turn some heads at ODACs.”

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas
and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for
group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or www.ststravel.com.

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier41 1 .com
1 877 SEE POOL

 

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&|ife

 

MGDAY, FEBRUARY 7, K15

Treat your sweetie to a

night out in the big city  

ByKa1|eSuI|e&NalhmWehen,3I.s
TheW&LLawN9NsstdlwrhIs

In light of Valentine’s Day, we
thought we would run this piece, which
appeared in the January 24 edition of
The W&L Law News. Good luck
planning a romantic date this year.

Date night in Roanoke starts
with a late afternoon drive on
Highway 11. You head south until you
see Foamhenge. You turn right into
the parking area, get out of your car
and walk up the hill. You take some
photos because the place is that cool.

You tell your date that it’s the only
exact replica of Stonehenge in this
nation and your date says something
about Carhenge.

You don’t have enough time to
take 11 all the way to Roanoke, so you
get onto 81 and before you know it
you’re at the Valley View multiplex.

You watch The Life Aquatic and are
not terribly impressed.

However, you did really like a

» couple scenes. Especially amusing to

you was the scene with Bill Murray
raging against the pirates with The
Stooges in the background.
Your date and you are very
hungry and want to check out a
restaurant that claims to be the old and
finest Italian restaurant in Roanoke.
The place is called Luigi’s and you
are more than a little skeptical.
Luigi’s is very unpretentious. It has
a nice little bar and it is clear that
some of the restaurant has not been
there since the place opened.
You see- that the menu has a
short anecdote, entitled “The Story of
Luigi’s.” Apparently, Lou was a

eventually made it to Roanoke.

g doesn’t cost you very much and you

young marine stopping in New York
City back in 1945. Lou had to catch
a train back to New England and was
pressed for time.

Fortunately, Lou’s friend knew
a cook at some Italian restaurant.
They got to eat in the employee’s
room where Lou met the “boss” and
received a copy of the “boss’s”
cookbook. The story doesn’t explain
how, but Lou and the cookbook

It is hard to make a decision,
but you decide on the Veal, Scallops
and Shrimp and your date orders the
Rigatoni and Meatballs. Your food
arrives and it is adequate at worst.
Your salas is pretty mediocre, but the
crab-stuffed mushroom appetizer is
pretty good. You like your entrée, but
wish you would have ordered
something other than a dish with a
rather tame Marsala mushroom sauce.

Your date isn’t impressed with
the Rigatoni but thinks the Meatballs
are really good. You are pleased at
this point, but are really happy when
your date and you decide to share a
very good Tiramisu. The meal

realize you will not be hungry again
until the next morning.

After the meal, your date wants
to go to the Barnes and Noble. You’re
not thrilled with the idea, but you
can’t think of anything better to
suggest. The place is crawling with
obnoxious teenagers, but the two of
you browse some books and
magazines for an hour.

You’re not too enthused about
going back to Lexington, but the day

has to endueventually.

ayvasnannuie
NW\W.?\GB]'|'O'-I

Last Thursday night over a thousand
people went to see The Roots play a
concert sponsored by the General
Activities Board.

Tickets for the concert were sold for
ten dollars in the Commons last week, but
those that waited until the last minute for
tickets could also buy them at the door.

The total cost of bringing The Roots
to Lexington was just over 32,000 dollars,
but many students said that the cost was
well worth the cost.

GAB chose The Roots because
students showed a heavy interest in a hip
hop band in a poll taken last fall. “We
knew there was interest in a hip hop band
and it worked out that we could get The
Roots,“ said GAB Vice President of
Operations Meredith Donegan.

Most students that went called the
concert very successful. Jordan Anderson,

Feb. 14 makes me ill

Despite noble origins, Valentine’s Day the worst holiday

Byemaysuwaus

AFlTS&L|lEEDlTCF

February 14”‘. All around the
world, women anxiously await for the
dozen of red roses that some nincompoop
will send them. Children beg their parents
for the Scooby-Doo cards that they will give
their classmates. Godiva and Russell Stover
make an insane amount of money selling
hideous shiny red boxes containing a massive
amount of calories. And I can’t stand it.

Yes, I am the killer of fun and good
times. All the sappiness and romance
makes me sick to my stomach. There’s
nothing worse than the Valentine’s Day
displays at Wal—Mart. Have you seen the
tie—dyed, phosphorescent Teddy Bears in
that egregious bin? Honestly, who in their
right mind would buy them?

In elementary school, I remember
bringing a shoebox to class on the 13”‘
and we’d spend hours decorating it. The
teacher would cut a hole in the top, and it
would be our own Valentine’s mailbox.

Mine was terrible. I think it stems
from the fact that I have absolutely no artistic
genes whatsoever. I took an art class in high
school for an elective, and the teacher gave
me an Abecause she felt sorry for me. I

But what exacerbated the whole
situation was that everyone had to get a
Valentine. Otherwise, it just wouldn’t be
fair. And we all know that elementary
school is about making everyone happy.
It was quite difﬁcult to write on my Barbie
cards the words “Love, Emily” when I
loathed the card’s recipient. And
attaching that miniature Reese’s cup? It
was like sticking a knife through my heart.

Thank God for middle school and
the fact that we were too cool for
Valentines. But, oh wait, we had “Val-o-
grams” from the Student Council. For a
mere 50 cents, you could buy a pre-
decorated pink sheet of paper,
meticulously write a message to your
favorite boy from our brother school, and
it would be delivered to him. Or, you
could send it to your friends.

Crayola markers, pink sheets of
paper, and more candy? I don’t think so.
But for some reason, I actually enjoyed

But I still don’t understand why guys give their
girlfriends giant boxes of chocolate and then tell
us “it’s going to our thighs.”

seeing them taped to my locker.

High school had to be the worst.
The 14"‘ was the day I came to school with
an entire box of Claritin. The roses started
coming by about 9am, and they didn’t
stop coming until school let out at 3. The
receptionist’s desk was so crowded that
the teachers set up a table in the hallway
for all the damn ﬂowers. Little white and
red bears with the embroidered words “Be
Mine” accompanied an overpriced vase
of wilting roses.

Screams of delight could be heard
up and down the hallway when girls
realized that their boyfriends actually
remembered the blessed occasion. Of
course they weren’t going to forget the
14"‘. High school boys? Never.

IwasinNewYorkforthe 14* lastyear.
Ithink the sappiness worsens as you get older.
My friends and I made the mistake of going
into Tiffany’s on the 15"‘. Oops. The newly-
engaged couples were everywhere.

‘ They were literally running over
people to get to the elevator that would
take them to the 4”‘ (or is it the 3”?) ﬂoor
to look at engagement rings. Barfaroonie.
Wouldn’t you know that their diamond
specialists offer a “How to choose the
perfect diamond” workshop on the 12"‘
and 13”‘. Note to self: don’t make the
same mistake this year.

I guess I don’t really hate
Valentine’s Day. It gives me some laughs.

A couple of years back, my dad sent my
mom ﬂowers for the first time ever. My
mom looked at my dad and said, “Are you
having an affair or something?” I was in
stitches.

And it does have a somewhat noble
beginning. Around 270, when Claudius
was emperor of Rome, he banned marriage
because he believed it made for weak
soldiers. Valentine, a Bishop, would
secretly marry young couples and was
arrested when Claudius found out about it.

As the story goes, Valentine was in
jail awaiting his execution when his jailor,
Asterius, asked him to heal his blind
daughter. Valentine miraculously did, and
before he was executed on the day that
would be February 14"‘, he sent a letter to
the girl saying “From your Valentine.”

Valentine became a.Patron Saint,
and a festival was named in his honor.
Young Roman men would send “greetings
of affection” to women they loved, and the
holiday stuck. One of the earliest
Valentine’s Day cards was sent from
Charles, Duke of Orleans, to his wife while
he was imprisoned in the Tower of London.

But I still don’t understand why

guys give their girlfriends giant boxes of _

chocolate and then tell us it’s “going to
our thighs.” And I guess I never will.
After all, nothing is less romantic than

receiving an Atkins-approved chocolate

bar.

#1 Sllfillﬂ Break Vacations

cancun. lamalca. Acapulco, Bahamas. 8. normal
Bast Panlos. Bast Ilotols. lost Prleosl
Iiroun Illscounts. organizers Travel rm!
snaco Is Ilmltotll Book low a. save!
1-800-2341001 mmondlosssummonourscom

a sophomore, couldn’t help but dance all
night. “It was a high energy non stop
party-”

The Roots are notorious for
focusing on instrumentation in the
concerts. It was no different Thursday
night. There were many guitar and drum
solos throughout the concert.

The band was created in
Philadelphia when the current drummer,
?uestlove (Ahrnir Khalib Thompson) met
the current lead rapper, Black Thought
(Tariq Trotter). They recreated classic hip
hop with drums and the fresh voice of
Tariq and played on the sidewalk and small
gigs. Along the way they met up with the
rest of their current band members
including a bassist.

Since then The Roots have had an
enormous cult following, but have never
quite received major notoriety. Just last
year the band broke from its record label
MCA and created their own label,
Okayplayer. Early this year they released

A week
and a half
a g 0 some
p h o t o g r a p h s
from this past
H a 1 1 o w e e n
surfaced in
various media
outlets, some
national. The
pictures showed
a handful of
cadets dressed in the following
costumes: Nazis, “male ballerinas” (for
lack of a better term), amorous sailors,
and a “starving African” in a loin cloth.
It goes without saying that the Nazi
uniform was inappropriate. Not that I
would attempt to justify the costume,
but it is. simply poking fun at the fact
that our winter uniform makes us look
like the SS (black shirt, black tie, grey
pants, grey hat). Though obviously
improper and an instance of poor
judgment, this does not mean that VMI
cadets are Nazi sympathizers.

The other costumes are far less
offensive,iif at all, when taken in the
proper context. The cadets in question
were not in public view and were not
aware that the general public would
have access to photographs of the
event. Once again, not to justify, but
to explain. Let's examine the “male
ballerinas.” We go to a school of more
than 1300 young men who wear
uniforms every single day; if you don’t
think that, in this context, two guys
wearing tou-tou’s, heavy make-up, and
baby-doll T—shirts which say “I (heart)
a man in uniform,” is funny then you
need to lighten up. The same goes for
the sailors, one of whom had a bull’s
eye on his rump. It was a light—hearted
joke intended to evoke the homosexual
sailor stereotype. Yet again, this does
not mean that VMI cadets are
homophobic or have some deep-
seeded hatred for homosexuals; a
couple of guys made a joke in the
presence of those who understood said
joke.

The final example is the
“starving African” in a loin cloth.

JonathanProctor

THE GUY NEXT DOOR

 

photo courtesy of mtv.oom

?uesllave,B|ackThought mdﬂ1erestofﬂ1eRootsplayedtoasoHomauMdinﬂ1ePavilbnmThursdaynight

The Roots rock the Pavilion

their newest DVD/CD set of a 2004
concert in Manhattan. The band is known
for having some of the most lively concerts
in the business.

Towards the end of the concert the
band started a chant yelling “Eagles,
Eagles, Eagles.” Many of the concert
attendees joined in, while a few others
started a Patriots chant. Another highlight
of the night for many was going crowd
surﬁng. One freshman fell and landed on
his elbow. But no one was seriously
injured.

Some of the concert goers came
from other schools to enjoy the concert.
There was a large group of students from
James Madison and Hollins. There was
also a large Lexican population at the
concert.

Donegan was pleased with the
final result. “I have heard very
enthusiastic responses from other
students," she said. “In my opinion, it
was very successful”

Guy Next Door defends
Virginia Military Institute

Question: any “South Park” fans out there?
If so, did you appreciate the humor of the
“Staryin’ Marvin” episode? Same thing.
This was not an example of “us dumb
rednecks hatin’ colored folk.” The cadet
in question was merely dressing up in the
same manner as a TV character. I cannot
emphasize this enough: I am not justifying
these actions, merely trying to put them in
their proper context.

The perception of many, with
regards to VMI, is this: we are a bunch of
arrogant, rude, racist, homophobic,
warmongers who attend an archaic,
outdated institution which condones said
behavior.

The reality: in my three-plus years
as a cadet I have met some of the most
honorable, driven, generous, pensif,

passionate, intelligent, funny, loyal, and

creative people that I’ve ever come in
contact with. Do cadets make mistakes?
Of course. Do our mistakes gain an
inordinate amount of attention? Yes. But
if one is looking for inappropriate
Halloween costumes then one would be
wise to visit Generic State College, U.S.A.
There one would find examples young
ladies wearing barely more than a “loin
cloth” and men dressed as feminine
hygiene products. . .all in view of the local
public. Are these offensive costumes the
norm? Of course not, but I have yet to see
“Good Morning America” do a segment
on the “atrocities" of Halloween at JMU.

Here’s the rub: before one passes
judgment on what goes on in VMI’s
strange reality he should remember the fact
that we have proudly served Virginia and
America since 1839 and have produced:
the man who rebuilt Europe after WWH,
more CEOs in the state of Virginia than
any other school, one of two American
modern day martyrs as recognized by the
Episcopal church (the other being Martin
Luther King, Jr.), and, perhaps most
importantly, innumerable men of honor.
If this article seems condescending or
arrogant then please accept my apologies
for that was not my intent; however, when
my Institute comes under attack I carmot
sit by idly. As fellow men and women of
honor, you can undoubtedly understand
my position.

 

MGDAY, FEBRUARY 7,215

“Reporting is seldom taught... it’s an attitude —
‘you have some information, I want it, and I deserve it’...

Believe what you are doing is more important than what the person
you ’re interviewing is doing. You are bringing the world information.

Your work is more important than almost any issue in the world.”
— TOMWOLFE‘l1praseonferenceatW&LonSanxday,Februa'y5,aXJ5

THERING-TUMPHI 05

Srats work for good

Sororities eﬂective in volunteering for a good cause

BySoniaSiuandTyel-laeberle
CAlVPlJS(1ITREPCHC}-IARS

Rush week 2005 started off on a
charitable note with the tradition of
Philanthropy Night. Girls who once went
through the rush process themselves look
back on this night with a twinge of
remorse, thinking back to that paint that
they spilled and the dreaded memories of
creativity that would not fabricate. In the
end, enduring this high-stress environment
was well worth it because the evening
beneﬁted many commendable causes.

CASA (Court Appointed Special,

Advocates), Girl Scouts of America, Links
to Literacy, the Mayﬂower, and Parkland
Hospital were among those organizations
that beneﬁted from this rush evening.
Theta’s national philanthropy is
CASA, which works toward pairing court
advocate— mentors with children who have
endured hardships within their families.
These children must often move around,
so Theta came up with the creative idea
of having potential new members decorate
picture frames for the children so that they
could frame a picture of them and their
advocate, or any other person important
to the child. Erin Rathbone, a senior Theta
who coordinated the evening’s activities
believed “that the activity was a success
and that the girls enjoyed it, especially
because it was a new and original idea.”
Every year, Girl Scouts raise money
by selling cookies. Kappa Delta wanted
to help its national philanthropy, Girl
Scouts of America, in this endeavor. KDs
had rushees decorate and put together

personalized cookie selling kits filled with
water bottles, folders, clipboards, and
bags. KD delivered these kits to girls in
troops around the county, and has followed
up through bi—monthly brownie group
meetings that the chapter participates in.
Beth Lidinsky, KD’s Philanthropy Chair,
was “excited to do this project because
[KD has] recently become more involved
locally with the Girl Scouts.”

Pi Beta Phi’s Philanthropy Night
was “an extremely successful step in
promoting literacy in an elementary school
system,” according to Lauren Kampf, Pi
Phi’s Philanthropy Chair. At the house,
girls painted colorful, fun book bags for
students attending an elementary school
in Maryland in order to encourage a higher
standard of literacy in their school system.
Pi Phi preceded this year’s gift of book
bags by collecting and donating books to
their national philanthropy “Links to
Literacy,” as well as its Canadian
equivalent “Arrows in the Arctic.”

“Flowers for the Mayﬂower” was
Chi Omega’s theme for the night.
Prospective new members spent their time
at the house painting clay ﬂower pots for
the residents of the Mayﬂower, a home for

the elderly located in Lexington. Chi
Omega plans on following up these
projects this spring using them in a new
member activity, when new members will
plant ﬂowers into the pots and present
them to the residents at the Mayﬂower.
Dianne Winter, Chi Omega’s Community
Service Chair noted that the chapter was
“really excited about how the projects
turned out,” since it was the first time that
this house had worked on such a project
for Philanthropy Night.

Laura Hombuckle, Kappa Kappa
Gamma’s Philanthropy Night Chair
considered its project to be “very special
for [the house] because it is for a fellow
Kappa.” Those rushing decorated baby t-
shirts to be sent to underprivileged or
abandoned babies in Parkland Hospital of
Dallas, Texas. Kappa is currently also
planning many other events to benefit
many other philanthropies.

Congratulations to the five
sororities on this campus for making
community service an integral part of rush.
The philanthropies that continue to beneﬁt
from your outstanding work are
appreciative of your efforts.

$$$Easy Money $$$

I will pay $40 for your phone book
Call Lee Ramsey toll free
1-866-577-7237

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 29 — July 30, 2005

Are you looking for a way to spend an exciting July in
Lexington while positively affecting high school students
and getting paid?  

Working as a Summer Scholars Counselor creates for you
that opportunity by allowing you to work with approximately
120 rising high school seniors for four weeks in July.

We are looking for responsible and friendly students who
work well with their peers, will organize extracurricular
activities for the participants and offer appropriate guidance
and insight to scholars about college life.

Applications can be acquired in the Summer Scholars Office
located in the Hill House, 218 W. Washington Street.
For more information about the position contact Dr. Mimi
Elrod at 458-8727.  
The deadline for turning in applications is February 22, 2005.

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 000-
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call momy
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with Campusﬁundraiser.
Contact CampusFundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

  

   

  as Tm ‘for em

apps. wﬁvmgtmazz; mvmnaarsnﬁml


~&uxaqawuae1umeer:asmwaas,21mm
-«auaunsimsaniviv marsa—W%,eik-GRM-11AM
-—cmi4atco«uwrym:_3.1ma4am
~oaaysoup, &a¢,&nunsu~11m-tap»

(}t=dar:rBsea%u 24HouuaI)ay,ScvcndaysaIvwk!

Located at
  LEEm'rnAvm.i*LA.zA
:«8':1&x~6i,Extr195,3516xom'm.uuwr,lmce'roN,va
Grbntfaaui-aagrsataolloctioacf
An§qun?a:|ai€u'u&'ﬂav“¥_'au$i

 

 

 

IIMI‘DAY,EFIJARY7,ZI5

 

STAFF EDITORIAL
Alums should speak

Washington and Lee is a
culture steeped in tradition. We
at the Phi love tradition and, in
most cases, want this school to
respect them. Recently,
however, the school made a
break in tradition that The Ring-
tum Phi applauds. Asking Tom
Wolfe to act as commencement
speaker is an important step for
the school.

This University has
graduated several famous and
accomplished alumni. To
include these alumni in the
graduation festivities serves
several purposes.

Tom Wolfe speaking at
commencement will certainly
bring more press, and more
attention, to campus that day.
Washington and Lee can
certainly use more positive press
in order to boost name
recognition.

To know that someone as
accomplished as Tom Wolfe
values the senior class’s
accomplishments enough to act
as commencement speaker is
also a huge compliment to the
graduates.

Normally, the President
of the University acts as the
commencement speaker. Though
President Burish is an eloquent
man, we believe that
incorporating more public
ﬁgures into this celebration will
bring nothing but positive press
to the school and a special honor
to the graduates.

In future years, the Phi
would like to see this new trend
continue. Possible
commencement speakers
include: Senator John Warner,
Roger Mudd and former
Chairman of Time Inc., Reginald
K. Brack, Jr.

And, of course, we
would love to see Tom Wolfe
back again next year.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions editor Caley Anderson gives
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

G 

But is it just me, or do you think it
would be hard for a non-W&L person
to understand this book?

Osocial Security

No matter who’s in ofﬁce in the next
forty years, I have a sneaking
suspicion that I’m deﬁnitely not going
to get back the money I’m putting in.

0 Ice

See, in California, we have this
ingenious celestial body called the
sun, which actually prevents ice from
enveloping whole cars.

0 The ceiling

zzba-dum chhhhhzz Ups and downs,
ladies and gentlemen. I’ll be here all
week, don’t forget to tip your waitress.

0OldCo-OpIBooksl1ore

So...is it just going to sit there or
what? I mean, it seems like a little bit
of a waste.

O0-School’s Art Display

Some interesting:.sti;$ff/hafigi on the
walls of the C-School these day The
Persephone display is crazy, but it’
excellent.

0 Feb. Break \
Before you start to call for my head on
a platter, think about this— wouldn’t
you much rather have a tliree—week
long Winter Break? Or maybe a two-
week long Spring Break? It just
seems sad to have lots of little breaks.

Research on stem cells must

be expanded for the public good  

ByBedtyLeMo'ne

TI-ELEBVLVEW

In President Bush’s State of the
Union Address last Wednesday night, he
stated, “I will work with Congress to
ensure that human embryos are not created
for experimentation or grown for body
parts and that human life is never bought
or sold as a commodity.” Indeed, since he
has held the ofﬁce of the presidency, Bush
has pushed to outlaw embryonic stem cell
research, and has succeeded as far as
limiting federal funding for this research
to stem cell lines existing prior to August
9, 2001. This is far from the compromise
the President painted it as.

At the time the decision was made,
the Health and Human Services
Department reported that more than 70 cell
lines were available. Yet, the number of
existing stem cells that were actually
available for distribution proved to be
much lower than the predicted number.
Now, only approximately 15 of these cells
remain available for researchers in the
United States who are doing federally
fimded research, according to the National
Institutes of Health as of March 2004.
However, other sources claim that the
actual number is even lower than the NIH
states. In addition, these cells are often
contaminated, as evident in a report in the
February issue of Nature Medicine, which
stated that researchers from the University
of California at San Diego and the Salk
Institute have found a contaminant in one
of the federally approved human
embryonic stem-cell lines. This study
provides the first concrete evidence that
at least one important stem-cell line, and
potentially all of the govemment-approved
ones, is unsuitable for use in human tests.

Stem cell research first began in
1998 when scientist Dr. James A.
Thomson, a biologist at the University of

‘ Wisconsin, Madison, reported that he had

isolated human embryonic cells. Since
then, this research has produced
substantial discoveries regarding life-
tlireatening diseases and also promises
future life-saving advances. This research
may be used for the transplantation of vital
organs, expansion of cancer research,
exploration of genetic defects at birth,

fertilization of identical twins, creation of
more effective contraceptives,
augmentation of the chances of pregnancy,
and information concerning the causes of
miscarriage.

Opponents of stem cell research
have often argued that the use of
embryonic stem ceHs deprives the life of
an embryo that would have otherwise had
the chance to live. However, with the
exception of therapeutic cloning, the
embryonic stem cells used in this research
are derived from fertility clinics where
they would have been discarded, rather
than given a life. The Stem Cell Research
Foundation affirms that following the
termination of a pregnancy, some women
donate the fetal material, which. would
otherwise be disposed of, to research. In
addition, frozen embryos that were created
by fertility clinics and are no longer needed
by the couple are another source of
pluripotent stem cells. Since these cells
would simply have been disposed of
anyway, why not use them for life-saving,
beneﬁcial research?

Opponents also argue that adult
stem cells are just as adequate as
embryonic stem cells. Though adult and
embryonic stem cells have many
similarities, human embryonic stem cells
have several key advantages over adult
stem cells. Stem cells derived from an
embryo can be reproduced in mass
quantities, allowing for better research and
potential use in transplants. These stem
cells are also pluripotent, meaning that
they can develop into any of the 200 to
220 different known cell types in the
human body. Adult stem cells are not
capable of this.

‘ There are many proponents of stem
cell research, including children suffering
from juvenile diabetes, such as eleven-year
old Tessa Wick. Wick does not understand
how opponents of embryonic stem cell
research can choose “a bunch of cells”
over her. Some of the most prominent
advocates of stem cell research include
Senator Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), Michael
J. Fox, and Christopher Reeves, who
unfortunately died last October.

The President should stop ignoring
good science to the detriment of the health
of millions of Americans. Stem cell
research must go forward.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR
ASST. CIRCULATION DIRECTORS

COPY EDITORS

ﬂ7eFhg-timHrispLbistiedMoridaysdiii‘gtheuidagIat1ates<:mdyear
atWash’ngtrx1aridLeeUriveisity,Lex'ngton,Wg‘1ia.
ﬂieF5'igaJnH1'san\arberd1TeRbk‘aﬁa'sBoam,bmisdtierwbei‘depauat
TheFﬁ1g-n.mPh'vveIoomesal
Alstbnissior:smi.ustbeemaiedtopt'i@vv1u.eduorir11heUriveisityCentermal3oxby5p.m.
Fridaytbappearintiieioloiwingvveeksecitiori.
77ieRiigamHireseNesttierignmedtsturissiaisbrouitei1tar1d lengh.
Letteisaridodunrisdonotrieoessaﬁiyrefedtheophimd TheFw'ig41mPhEdtoriaIBoard.
Adverlisingdoesnctneﬂecttheopinionsof TheFi‘hg-amPh'oriIsstaﬁ.
Th'sri9ArspaperobseNeswna1tooundefI1ﬁmsc£iJeIar1dd:soa'ily.

TheF&ig-timPI1'
-\ UrivetsityCom'norsFIoom341
 Lex'ngon,Vwg"I'a24450
- \ Teiephone:(54o)45a4oeo
\\ Fa>c(54o)45e4059
<  Eh'etp|1'@vw.i.edi
\ Stbsa1:>tiomate$40

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS

CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT

ROB RAIN

LEGGET KITCHIN
ELIZABETH ROBINSON
YINYAN Ll

ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
V 

Rice on the rise,
Dean on the decline

Byshmewlson
TI-EPO.ITK?AI.LPDATE

Condoleezza Rice: the First
Week

Last week, Condoleezza Rice
jetted off on a whirlwind mission in
her new capacity as Secretary of State.
Her scheduled stops included a mixed
bag of countries including the United
Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy,
Luxembourg, Poland, Belgium,
'I\1rkey, Israel, and the West Bank. On
the agenda: repairing broken relations,
reaffirming existing ones, and forging
ahead with plans of peace.

Ambitious? Perhaps, but
difficult situations are nothing new for
Secretary Rice. Her dedicated and
honest service to President Bush during
his first administration is testimony to
her ability (memories of the 911
hearings quickly come to mind). If
there were ever any doubt, Rice’s
skilled responses to a frosty Barbara
Boxer last week prove that she’s able
to remain steady even under the most
withering attacks.

Such diplomatic prowess came

I in handy as she began her trip, which

included her first major policy speech
in Paris. With the intent of patching
together some sort of reconciliation
between hard line concepts of old and
new Europe, Rice’s remarks will
hopefully decrease hard feelings in the
long run.

Undoubtedly the most important
aspect of her trip was a renewed
emphasis on Middle East peace. First
stopping in Turkey was a wise choice,
at least signaling that the United States
does not remain upset after Turkey’s
refusal to assist during the Iraq war.
Turkey’s overall importance in
stabilizing the region will be critical in
the next decade.

Her arrival in Israel Sunday
precedes a new Israel-Palestine summit
before which she will have separate,
private meetings with both Israeli
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon
Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas.

If there’s anyone more qualified
to take up this challenge, it is
Condoleezza Rice. Whether she is able
to mediate an agreement that will usher
in a new Palestinian state and lasting
peace remains to be seen, but the
American public should wish her well
and be conﬁdent in her selection as
secretary of state.

Howard Dean, DNC
Commander-in-Chief? '

YEAAAAAAH! This may be
the new battle cry of the Democratic
National Committee if Howard Dean’s
latest political aspirations come to pass.
With elections for Chairman of the
party quickly approaching, it becomes
more and more evident, however
unlikely, that the position may be filled
by this formed Vermont governor. It
really brings two questions to mind.
First, what is the Democratic Party
thinking? Second, is there really no one
else? Actually, a third question burns
in the back of my mind. Where is the
Democratic Party headed (does hari-
kari seem like an appropriate
reference)?

Let’s take these questions point
by point. Number one. Dean hardly
seems like the kind of person to bring
about party cohesiveness, much less
one to sweep the polls on Election Day.
Remember that Dean built his
constituency on the most
disenfranchised of the Party, including
those whose stances were the farthest
left on the Iraq war. At the same time,
his political career was marked by
opposed Democratic positions (he
supported gun rights while at the same
time making gay unions legal).

Second, is there truly not a better
choice to lead the party? I would liken
Dean’s appointment as DNC head to
an enraged Zell Miller taking charge
of the GOP, fully complimented by
disparaging put downs and an
assortment of frightening glares.
Granted, I like Miller, but his presence
can often be taxing to the good people
in PR. The point here is whether the
Democrats could have found a more
digestible figurehead, perhaps the
deposed Senator Daschle or even Bill
Clinton?I ask again, where would the
Democratic Party be taken by Howard
Dean? It‘s interesting to try and
understand the underlying strategy
where a person who could only garner
third place in a race for president is the
top choice to take a party to national
victory. Sure, he’s energetic. Sure, he
gets people involved. And yes, he has
an awesome slogan. Will this be
enough to make up for a pa.ity’s general
lack of direction and leadership? While
the ultimate answer remains unknown,
watching Howard Dean lead the
Democratic Party would be almost as
fun as a head to head election contest
between him and George Bush.

Feb. break rules

Defending the Washington break

BySaaDuckworIh

FIERIJXXE

This last week solidified the
reasons why I am in love and much in
need of a February Break. Lots of
people complained, including myself,
that having to be back January 3“ was
horrible, but at least we have a fourth
of this dreadful little month off. Yes,
driving back to Lexington on January
1“ was about as much fun as slamming
my hand in a door, but it’s over with
and now we have an entire week to
recover from the last six. So here are a
few legitimate reasons for why I prefer
this week over a three—week Dec. break.

1) Holiday Break was short
enough that I was sad to leave my
family and friends from high school.
It will now be enjoyable to go back
home or go take a road trip to visit them
at school, instead of reliving reasons
why I was so glad to graduate from HS.

2) Rush week was like pulling a
Band—Aid off exceedingly slowly. Any
more “break” and I would have lost my
mind. There is no dark cloud of rush
hanging over this week, thus making it
the superior.

3) There is no fashionable way
to keep your nose warm. We’re a
campus that works awfully hard at

looking presentable, but the cold nose
thing gets me. It’s a catch 22 of
whether to give up and wrap a scarf
around your face, or a ski mask, or have
the Rudolph syndrome. I need a break
from this pet—peeve, and I don’t think
I’m alone.

4) It’s a good time to get the old
car ﬁxed. Mine was grumpy before
Friday, but now that it has a‘ giant dent
in the front bumper it really needs to
get a face lift. At least the lady who hit
my parked car is good enough to pay
for it, thus leaving me with some hope
for humanity, even in the winter.

5) Even though the Super Bowl
and Mardi Gras will already be over, it
never hurts to have some time off to
“celebrate” without having a midterm
the next day.

6) Frat Pledgeship. Enough said.

7) I’m ready to leave our little
campus, which has recently turned into
a hotbed for germs. Don’t cough on
your hand and then open the door with
the same hand. Sharing, in theory, is a
good thing, but I would rather you keep
your phlegm and viruses tolyourself. I
know you can get sick anywhere, but
is it so wrong to ask for a change of
venue?

88) An excuse to travel =
something to adore. Disneyworld at
21? I think yes.

 

 

NUDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 215

“If you want to work professionally, you have to

be able to drop the accent when it’s required.”

— QUOTE oFTHEWEEKl\ra'Ii1chiIderS.who’s|eariig aprojecttobachnzdAppa|achhil<idsto|oseIhe'I'accen1s.

THE RNG-TUM PHI 0 7

Male students bear responsibility for end

BycaieyAnde:son/

NKZXIFIATE'SNl.G\X§

If one believes the administration,
and indeed, most women at our University
(and I do), then sexual assault is a serious
problem on this campus. As men, I think
we tend to suffer from a sort of delusion
that sexual assault isn’t a “serious
problem” until it becomes epidemic.
There are some men on this campus, and I
hate to admit it, that probably wouldn’t
see a problem until women were forced
to stay in their dorms, apartments, and
houses out of fear.

But we should all admit it- even in

the campus situation we have now, most
women on this campus are at least
somewhat fearful when they go out to
parties, and they must have that little bit
of discomfort in the back of their minds
where men do not. With off—campus
proliferation, the danger of sexual assault
is more prevalent than ever, and though
most women shrug it off, this danger is
something that mustn’t be long tolerated
or ignored by anyone on this campus, least
of all us, the male students.

I think the disconcerting seriousness
of this problem is often camouﬂaged by
the somewhat limited deﬁnition that a few
of my male colleagues seem to place on
the term “sexual assault.” Unfortunately,

there is a lot that goes on besides out-and-
out rape. It is not uncommon at our
University for guys at parties to get women
drunk with the explicit purpose in mind
of blacking out their memories of the
night, and of getting them in bed. This
low—grade attempt at erosion of a woman’s
will is usually not twice thought of, but it
is‘ sexual assault, and though the legal
ramiﬁcations are murky, it is certainly not
in keeping with the standard of behavior
that we, as students here, ought to be
voluntarily ascribing to. This is not even
considering the use of date rape drugs and
other underhanded, dishonorable
practices.

But more important than the

methods used is the mindset which allows
such activity to take place. On this
campus, there continues to be a male social
ethic, and I’m not saying that all men here
buy into it, which silently permits, or even
encourages such activity. Some men
continue to use their pledgeship vows of
loyalty to fraternity and to fraternity

brothers as an excuse to cloak and defend

assaulters, and to stigmatize and harass
women with legitimate complaints. This
is indefensible; the fact that such
disgraceful treatment of one’s fellow
students regularly happens within a few
miles’ radius of Robert E. Lee’s burial
place never ceases to astonish me. Is this
what we are to present to the world as our

ing campus’ sexual assault

vision of what an “honorable gentleman”
is?

Sketchy, mutually-drunken hookups
are one thing, taking advantage of
someone is quite another. All guys should
know where this line is, and all guys
should make danmed sure not to cross it.
There must be no doubt in anyone’s mind
as to consent. Inthis time period, it’s the
woman’s job to make her preferences
clear, it’s the man’s job to make sure he
understands what she means. Protecting
sexual assaulters and attacking women
who come forward with allegations of
assault is not something that anyone here
is obliged to do by their frat vows or by
anything else. There really is no excuse.

Pro—life perspective

Dear Editor,

Two rather lengthy pieces about
abortion in last week’s Phi caught my
attention. I would like to address some of
the points made therein (in my own rather
lengthy piece, of course).

I begin with Ms. LeMoine’s piece,
in which she argues that determining when
life begins is a complex and multi-faceted
matter. ‘

I submit that it is not so at all: life
biologically begins at conception, the
point at which a sperm fertilizes an ovum
producing a genetically distinct human
individual. One may quibble about
whether this is a “fully developed” human
life (is a prepubescent child “fully
developed”?), and one may argue about
its dependence on the mother, but if the
natural processes of development
(including dependence on the mother)
remain uninterrupted, the zygote will
necessarily grow into a small, screaming
child — not a stick of celery.

The zygote is actual, as opposed to
potential, human life by the very fact that
its genetic make-up is both individually
distinct and entirely human.

Another argument Ms. LeMoine
makes concerns the wording of the first
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
which she takes to be the constitutional
definition of the beginning of life. The
purpose of the clause, however, is to deﬁne
“citizens of the United States,” who are a
subset of persons . ’

The speciﬁc subset of persons who
are citizens are “All persons born or
naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof.” Note,

 

 

'3 2.5

 

miss rear‘

x $1

. . :3

     

Standard  
. features institute:

L

rm?‘-.:*:§a starts =aal’?§ ea:.ié;:;ie-3.  -sat? 3-ttszasssrézﬁ "

95‘

though, that the same amendment says that
no “State shall deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property, without due process
of law.” This extends to all persons,
including illegal immigrants who were
neither born nor naturalized here, and who
apparently would not classify as human
life if one were to take Ms. LeMoine’s
faulty interpretation seriously.

My next point will serve to address
an important theme in both Ms. LeMoine’s
and Mr. Heath’s pieces. The two
emphasize the trauma of rape; and, I do
not doubt, the trauma of rape is certainly
very great and very damaging to those who
have suffered it. I mean no offense when I
say this, but emotional trauma never
justifies the taking of innocent human life.

Is the child who is a product of rape
guilty of some offense against her mother?
Is it her fault if her mother looks at her
and can only be reminded of her rapist? I
do not pretend that it is easy to raise a child
who is the product of one’s own rape; and
certainly we should work to make adoption
an available choice to the unfortunate
mothers of such children.

However, we ought not to sacrifice
another, innocent person’s life to our own
emotional distress. It is not anyone ’s right
to do so.

Mr. Heath states that ectopic
pregnancies are a “keystone issue,”
suggesting that pro-lifers would demand
that the mother die rather than that the
fetus be killed.

But no one supports a ban on
abortion when the mother’s life is at stake.
Even Ann Coulter, who we can all agree
is NOT the very essence of moderation,
would retain an exemption to preserve the

      

«

rm as straw“:

516.70

 

V ; l:§Uv~W:3i§ Fssargear Ci: stares with six spealazarza. inttuding two

, tweeters and Satan Saand ?§Fr>xes:5it22.f; ,4‘ MP3 rapahtia and lllrl
- :<';s<s¥:r'.'rti.2£:s !’%.%t}€l}’ 2‘ air terrzteétiaaa-V:-t Chalet  lltteé wliarzsl ztwir
aa';s.:s§.r°s':-:s ,3‘ .il¥i“£‘§'§~-iiiiigillt brakes l ftewter ‘wirzeaws,  il.iir:;§:s, and
' ‘ eatséeie rrré=rm:“a 3‘ ’§-year, a§,.ElE¥ﬁ~r*:tiita;=-;~ Peaertrairr isarr‘antf;*

‘ E Stan’;”FirrsPriie”;prsrz:ha:s=eeiipsrierrte
I means Ha baggie. its hassle.

 nail, Eiraala, 2trs2§l=:i§arsa.3r:3‘  3§‘%il?t>2’§

mother’s life.

Mr. Heath also says that the rights
granted in Roe v. Wade (for truly, they are
granted, as they lack any real
constitutional foundation) are not about
“abortion in place of safe sex” or
destroying a fetus diagnosed with a genetic
defect.

Whatever the original intent,
though, Roe v. Wade does secure legal
rights to exactly those, even in the last
trimester: no state in the Union may
restrict by law the reasons for pursuing
abortion.

Furthermore, if we compare
international abortion policy, the United
States ranks at least seventh of I 95 for the
most liberal abortion policies in the world.
(Abortion policy information obtained
from the Center for Reproductive Rights,

»a. pro—choice or-ganizationz. <http://

www.crlp.org[>.) That means that Roe v.
Wade is about as “moderate” as the
Communist Party, U.S.A.

'In conclusion, all of the wondrous,
and often harrowing, adventure we call life
begins with but two small cells becoming
one.

If we do not nurture this most
fundamental of all human rights, all other
rights are perfectly meaningless: for
without life there are neither riches nor

poverty, neither liberty nor slavery, neither,

happiness nor sorrow.

There is no possibility for us to truly
appreciate the beauty of a rose when we
nip it in the bud.

Sincerely,

Kyle Sulli ‘O6

Bookstore commends campus

Dear Editor,

On behalf of the University
Bookstore we would like to thank the over
250 students and members of the
Washington and Lee community who
stood in the long line on Saturday and
waited patiently , some for over 5 hours,
to have a book signed by Tom Wolfe.
Without a break and with a fountain pen,
Mr. Wofe signed 342 books, many of
which were personally inscribed in his
distinctive elegant script. In spite of a
scheduled departure for 2:30, Mr. Wolfe

stayed until everyone in line left with a
signed book. As he was preparing to leave
after the event, Tom commented how
touched he was by the tremendous student
response to the signing and praised the
innate civility and lively intelligence he
always experiences in his interactions with
W&L students. A compliment indeed
from a man who personiﬁes Lee’s “one
rule.” Kudos to you all!

Sincerely,
Bill & Maureen Becker

  BliieRi    
mes rm r. T?-Ilrik-‘hi-PT

(fare i4.ii'.i'.a’:_i«v.fs:._u 5‘?! Mimi‘
~j}-SE83
',s;§,$ ‘Ni;-rili Le: Hwy
5;.-eiuzisigztcrn, "ii-‘A
;r:;uii»:;u.- $!.,‘;.»é.l..! in £i"r—”r_°Jf}i|_I'!!?! =-T-mi’
.,.§'i*:-I'M. 3.‘ 1' {I

:';:3.,p..~i:.a|in7ng in."

I3}-rilwgti-;-iii-:5
Eizcsrrs }«'I~'.W.-’.i:‘l«ri;'=‘lT||~'l
gpgmr iiraiiarixaiiqzi
Pas:-i:'lI" ml is I ill ifﬂilﬂﬂ

F‘jg;;;,;:.:e ,;*;1’fE gr gtggqi .rI'.I_,.= his $&BI?:.11§ with -711"? "¥éf5“'—'~“'5" 535$-
  ._-_!g_,1v<‘:     
;'m,gmicng_ _.;°."' '1,-r_.’I:.!r' £;‘J$ﬁi"ﬂ?'E»?i!.

 



 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 

  yaur nearest Stlﬁﬂ Sealer  Srioattrm er tall ‘l-346   if

 
 
      
   

t./’'“ L)

-......--/‘”/’“”‘~”‘3\
K ~
/"""‘\~_...«
FENE LINGERIE

Downtown
Lexington ’s
Sweetheart Shop

 

21 W. Nelson St.

463-6963 I

Mon ~ Fri lO—5:30
Sat 10-5

“semper 110:‘ sub ubi”

 

  

 

8 0 THERNG-TUMPH

 

lVKNDAY,l¥BRUARY7,ﬂ5

H

word

 

I\

'Thank you Burish for having the
character to do what is best, whether it
is popular or not. It proves that this
school is about Honor within the
administration as well as the students.

-Great job administration for
increasing the chances of sexual assault
because parties are pushed into the
country.

-No one from the administration is
pushing parties to the country; no one
from the administration would be
responsible for an increase in drinking
crimes, or sexual assault. It’s fellow
students that would be forcing health
problems and more alcohol down each
other’s throats, and it’s fellow students
that commit sexual assault against each
other.

INow I guess I have to go to the co-
op, oops, I mean the Cafe 77 to get
beer.

-I wonder if Burish is a virgin, we
know that he wants to make drinks that
are.

-I feel like I’m living under a
dictator regime. Let’s call Bush and
bring in the troops.

ITraveller better get a lot more cars
and run for a lot more hours.

-Why does the school have to hate
fun?

-So, the Board of Trustees must

have been drinking O’Douls all
weekend?

lWasn’t it nice of the Board and the
administration to hold an open
meeting this weekend with students
to talk openly about the new alcohol
policy enforcement...oh...wait.

-Everyone in this school just needs
to grow up and act responsibly.

Nextﬁrne’slnpic:
Wi|dandCrazyFeb
breakstories.

Visiting land of
debutante ba s

Early decides to spend ﬁrst Wash-
ington break in the peach state

ByKristheEaly

NI.KN\DG-EESEGIFI.

Washington Holiday is less than a
week away! Come Friday morning, I bid
farewell to LexVegas. As much as I
worship Salemo’s (Shout out to the hottest
waitresses ever: Paten and Angela!), adore
the downtown shops and revere Traveler’s
gravesite, this vacation is much needed. A
town with a population of 7,000... after
awhile it gets old. _

, Althoughl am breaking my parents’
hearts (Sorry mom and dad!), I am not
going home for break. Janesville,
Wisconsin is a metropolis compared to our
very own LexVegas.

In addition to a Wal—Mart there is a
Target and a K—mart. Okay, I’ll be fair.
There are two movie theaters and there is
a mall. Plus, we did just get a Starbucks.
Clearly, we’re legit now. However, for a
place that lays claim to 60,000 residents,
the “City of Parks” is lacking. If a
Janesvillite wants live entertainment, he
goes to the high school football game. If
he wants “culture,” he goes to the all-you-
can-eat Chinese buffet.

Worst of all, Janesville is
surrounded by farrnland- miles and miles
of comfields and green pastures. I like
com. I like cows, too. On a bun with
lettuce, tomatoes, and ketchup. (Sorry
vegetarians, but nothing tastes better than
a big juicy hamburger and French fries.
Or shall we say Freedom Fries?) However,
when the wind blows the wrong way, let’s
just say that the air doesn’t smell “spring
fresh.”

Janesville, being literally half way
between the two coasts, smack dab in the
middle of bovine country, is also the most
out of touch city in the country. We didn’t
even hear about Tommy Hilﬁger until ﬁve
years after everyone else had stopped
wearing his designs. Our newspaper’s top
story for the last year and a half: Super

Wal-Mart, to build or not to build?
People actually picketed. It was big. I’ll
keep you updated.

I’m an adventurer. I like
excitement. Obviously, J—town is not
the ideal location for me. So, instead
of subjecting myself to hours of small
town boredom and the zero—degree
weather characteristic of a Wisconsin
winter, I am going to spend the week
with one of my favorite people in the
entire world- my brother. You can
“awww” right about now.

At roughly 8:00 am on February
11, I will begin my journey to Athens,
Georgia. It will entail one car trip, two
airplane ﬂights, and one bus ride. It will
probably be 5:00 p.m. before I even set
foot in the Peach State. But don’t cry
for me, Argentina: I have six hundred
pages of assigned readings to keep me
occupied. Lucky me!

I am really excited about this trip.
I’ ve never been to Georgia before. This
will be my very first venture “down

South.” Sure, I’ve been to Myrtle Beach A

and Orlando. Somehow, I am guessing
that doesn’t count. True, I’ve been
living in Virginia for five months. But
while Virginians may wave their
confederate ﬂags and speak with a
slight twang, I have yet to see “good
ol’ southern hospitality” or to be called
“lil’ 1ady.” (Please never call me that.)

I want to hear people drawll I
want debutante balls! I want bumper

stickers that say “I’m on the prowl for .

tonight’s dinner. Watch the front
fender”! Will Georgia fit all of its
stereotypes and rise to the high
expectations of a pure-bred
Midwestemer like myself? Only ten
more hours of (enlightening) lectures
and (scintillating) discussion and I will

get my answer. Meanwhile, the Cheese I

State will just have to go on without
me. What a shame...

I want bumper stickers that say “I ’m on the
prowl for tonight’s dinner. Watch the front

fender”!

Fisherman claims sandwich better than
sex, beautiful women, and 80’s music

Trout does not need a girl to put the color inside of his
world, just give him a Sunrise Sandwich from the co-op.

Bynugnrmut

Tl-EFS'BWl:1AN

Classical writers discussed the idea
of food of the gods: they called it
arnbrosia. The idea that such a food could
be available to us mere mortals is as stupid
an idea as Clear Pepsi, right? Wrong. It
is available, and despite overwhelming
odds it can be found here in Lexington.
What is this magical food? Sunrise
Sandwiches.

For years this wonderful creation
has helped sustain even the greatest heroes
of our time. Such Sunrise enthusiasts
include Robert E. Lee, all members of
Duran Duran, and even Slater from Saved
by the Bell.

There are knock—offs, however.
Some people are so devoid of taste that
they think McDonald’s breakfast
sandwiches are similar. This is about as
ignorant and preposterous as claiming that
Lindsay Lohan is as talented as Hilary
Duff (there is a face book group for those
of us who have enough class to
understand how much cooler Hilary
Duff is...).

And so I would like to
express my ﬁrm belief that the
definition of happiness for
any man is experiencing
both the love of a
beautiful woman and
the love of a
beautiful Sunrise ,/ 
S a n d w i c h . if
However, the
treacherous
question is
which would
he choose if
presented with
the horror of
having to pick
just one. I
understand this may seem -
like a nightmarish scenario that
is too heinous to fathom, but it is an

important question. While one may be led

to assume that the obvious choice is the
love of a woman, I think the choice is
harder when one takes the time to consider
all the advantages of sunrise sandwiches.

First, a Sunrise Sandwich will never
get drunk and tell all your friends that you
said Bridget Jones’ Diary was the feel—~

Marshal
friend in

Bymarsmlnure
l%TATO|W\N

For nearly twenty years of my life,
I have never understood a single thing that
a girl does. I use the term girl because I
have never met a woman. Guys have to
earn the right tobe called aman andlthink
girls have to earn the right to be called a
woman. A

I have had horrible luck with girls.
But it’s not all their fault. Up until college,
I had never had anyone give me good
advice on what to say or do when it comes
to the opposite sex.

But I was able to ﬁnd that new best
friend who tells me everything I need to
know about girls. I now have someone to
talk to about all my problems and they give
me good advice that never falters. That
person is Mike D and the rest of the
Beastie Boys.

The Beastie Boys are not very cool
people. In high school, they got beat up a
lot. No one cared what a couple of wanna

‘be rappers had to say, especially the girls.

While their moms were busy taking away
their best porno mag, the girls were busy

You can talk to sunrise sandwiches for hours
and they will listen and won’t ever interrupt.

good movie of the year with lots of
perspective for the common man. I still
am recovering from that one.

Second, a Sunrise Sandwich will
never put you into the position of listening
to her god awful music and making you
pretend it’s as good as the stuff you listen
to. After all, sunrise sandwiches don’t
have the ability to enjoy music, but
everyone knows that if they did they would
have killer taste. They would listen to
bands like Widespread Panic, O.A.R. and
Wilco. I could even imagine some of the
Sunrise Sandwiches kickin’ it to J ay-‘Z and
Thievery Corporation, cause they like to
keep their game on the creep and ﬂow with

   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

a diverse perspective.

Third, a Sunrise Sandwich is there
for you whenever you need it to be. It
won’t demand that you ignore other
sunrise sandwiches because it’s cool like
that. It understands that you’re just a

young guy looking to have a good time

and not wanting to get too attached to
anyone. After all, some days you want a
ham, others you really think the bacon is
where it’s at. No worries, no
commitments.

But for all the female fans of The
Fisherman, pay attention, this applies to
you equally. When was the last time a
Sunrise Sandwich drunk dialed you and
told you he loves you when you know all
he wants to do is get some? No way man,
sunrise sandwiches understand that just
isn’t chill. You are a person with feelings
and interests and Sunrise Sandwiches want
more than just a hook up. They want a
connection.

Can you remember a sunrise
sandwich ever talking to you about how
hot another girl is? Nope, that’s cause
sunrise sandwiches got game and they

of attention which you deserve
to be. While they may not
be able to hold doors for
you or pay for the movie
tickets, sunrise sandwiches
more than make up for it
with their listening skills.
You can talk to sunrise
sandwiches for hours and
they will listen and won’t
ever interrupt. And with
enough liquor, it won’t seem
as depressing talking to a
sandwich as you might think.
Besides, getting sloppy around
a guy on a Saturday night can
sometimes lead to something you
will regret in the morning. But
with Sunrise Sandwiches, you can
feel good about yourself despite the
number of lager shots you did.

So party, drink, hang out with cute
people of the opposite sex and listen to
some not so great music. Just remember,
no matter how badly you failed that exam
or how much it sucked when you got
caught pretending to remember the name
of the cute girl you were talking to last
night, Sunrise Sandwiches are there for
you.

finds new best
the Beastie Boys

Music changed the way Marshall goes about dating

The Beastie Boys are all about lying to make
yourself sound better. And it works.

dating the quarterback.

But one day, they woke up and were
magically given the power to make girls
fall upon their knees and worship them.
They had the power of music.

It is music that changed the way I
go about dating. The Beastie Boys are able
to tell women that all they want is “girls
to do the dishes/girls to clean up my room/
girls to do the laundry/and in the
bathroom” and still girls want to go
backstage with them.

So how do they do it? Tell them
lies. Make yourself sound good. In the
song Hey Ladies, Mike D tells his
prospective girl that he’s all—knowing.

The Beastie Boys are all about lying
to make yourself sound better. And it
works. I can’t count the number of times
I’ve heard about guys that meet a girl and
as soon as they ﬁnd out that she is from

Charleston, the guy lies and pretends that
he too is from that city. And it always
works.

The Beastie Boys know how to pick
the right girls too. They say, “I met a little
cutie she was all hopped up on zootie/I
liked the little cutie but I kicked her in the
bootie/Cause I don’t kinda go for that
messin’ around.”

The Beastie Boys know that if they
mess around with crazy chicks they’re
gonna get burned.

That’s why you’ve got to kick them
in the bootie. The Beastie Boys are able
to get girls because they are selective about
who they try to get with.

So, if you want your girl to be
“staring at the cracks up there upon the
ceiling,” you best listen to The Beastie
Boys and tell that girl that “[her] body’s

 

know how to make you the center '

