€3’!%-75$
R552.
v.IO'7
mole

“THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

RING=TUM PHI.

MG‘DAY,JAMlARY31,%

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

It
 £1°

THIS ISSUE

To our readers, subscribers and the
Washington and Lee community,

In our letter last week we said that at
this point in The Ring—tum Phi’s
history, we wanted to communicate
to our readers that we are a paper of
dignity, respect and Washington and
Lee history. As such we have the
responsibility to apologize for
offensive made in our paper in the
“QuickHits” section. To anyone
who has been offended by any of
these anonymous “hits” in the last
year and a half, we are sorry. The
section has been revised and will
begin in its new, responsible form
next week (see staff editorial).

WHAT’S INSIDE

 

FIsI1'ngfOrLaJd'Is

New columnist Hugh “The
Fisherman” Trout teams up for the
first time with Marshall Rule and
Kristine Early on the Last Word.
See more on page 8

HOT TICKET

 

Raisetheﬁoof

Carbon Leaf comes to Lexington to
perform hits from their latest album,
“Indian Summer.” Playing at 10:00
p.m., Fri., Feb. 4, at the Lambda Chi
Alpha house at 225 E. Nelson St.

Healthcareforsale

Consumer Uriion’s economics and
health reporter Trudy Lieberman
speaks in the Commons theater at
4:30 p.m. on Wed., Feb. 2. Free.

Venonaugit

Acting Company stops by Lenfest to
perform Shakespeare’s “Two
Gentlemen of Verona” at 8 p.m. on
Tues., Feb. 1.

‘ SIMPLE LIFE

Makeyourroomawinterhaven
If you have to stay inside to avoid the
wintry weather, the normal room can
quickly feel drab and dreary if it
doesn’t drive you stir—crazy. Here are
some tips that will spruce it up and
bring friends ﬂocking to your door.

ITum off the overhead ﬂuorescent
lights and stick to table or ﬂoor
lamps that start at around $14 at
Walmart — we recommend 40-60 watt
bulbs to give the room a more
romantic light as well as prevent
these little sources of heat from
transforming your room into a
furnace.

-A potted plant or small bouquet
gives the room life when the once-
green world outside is asleep under
the snow. Add a splash of hydrogen
peroxide to the vase’s water supply to
keep your ﬂowers alive longer.
-Keep a stash of hot cocoa ready for
that unexpected visitor and maybe
even a box of ginger snaps for them
to enjoy.

-Usually keep those shades drawn -
tight? With the campus covered in
snow, why hide such a view? You’ll
be even more in the mood for winter
if you’re always reminded that Jack
Frost has indeed coated Lexington"
with a beautiful blanket of white.

Internet

ByErinJuius

' E

The Virginia Military Institute made
national news this week after photographs
surfaced featuring Cadets dressed in
costumes parodying Nazis, drag queens
and a starving African.

For this past Halloween, VMI first-
classmen dressed up rats in an array of
costumes for a school-sanctioned party.
The event took place in Barracks.

The Drudge Report, The Roanoke
Times and other national media picked up
this story after photographs of cadets in

the more controversial costumes were
posted on an internet chat room
unaffiliated with VMI.

“Every year we have a costume
party or “rat trick-or—treating,” said Paul
Bryan, the Regimental S-5 Captain in
charge of public affairs. “The idea is to
dress your rats up and see who can get the
most attention...someone was thinking
more about trying to be noticed and they
went overboar .”

“People were pretty upset. Every
year we dress up the freshmen,” said
Andrew Upshaw, S-5 Sergeant. “The
whole Corps is embarassed.”

According to Upshaw the Corps is

upset that people, “look at our school like
there are Nazis at VMI. It was taken out
of context...VMI holds itself to a higher
standard,” he said. “When someone
breaks that standard it falls on the whole
Corps.”

VMI’s Officer of the Guard
Association, made up of Cadets, will
investigate the photographs and report its
ﬁndings to the General Committee, which
is responsible for recommending
disciplinary action. The General
Committee is comprised of Cadets from
the upper three classes at VMI.

“I can say there wasn’t any
malicious intent,” Bryan said, “they were

webshots shock the Institute

not trying to make a statement.”

Possible punishment for anyone
convicted of “conduct unbecoming of a
cadet” can include conﬁnement, when a
cadet caxmot leave post, and penalty tours,
when a cadet marches for an hour with
his riﬂe.

Those guilty of involvement in the
pictures are looking at charges of “conduct
unbecoming of a cadet.” VMI’s
administration will also have input into the
disciplinary action taken.

Most Cadets resent VMI’s recent
national attention “VMI really strives to
promote civility—this doesn’t help to
show that civility,” Bryan said.

Pmhddebgabspresanawum0ansoq1abdedh1gMmsexialassauﬂdiagesmcanms.

    

CORBIN BLACKFOFID / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

Students voice opinions on campus life

Bysadilvlnay

IVEVVSEDITCR

Greek students of all years and
afﬁliations addressed campus issues last
Saturday at Day of Dialogue, the annual
discussion forum sponsored by
Panhellenic Council and the Interfratemity
Council. While the main topic was sexual
assault, the event allowed Greeks to air
their concerns about other problems and
propose solutions.

“I think there were a lot of
perceptions changed,” said Karlyn Gold,
new Parihel president. “People heard what
other people were saying."

Students first watched a mock trial
of a sexual assault case in Evans Dining
Hall. Members of W&L’s Mock Trial
Association presented both sides of an
acquaintance rape case that involved
alcohol and many ambiguities——details
that characterize and complicate many
sexual assault situations.

Afterwards, participants split off
into discussion groups that mixed students
of different genders, ages, and affiliations.
Under the guidance of trained discussion

 

leaders, the groups held conversations
about negative attitudes and actions at
W&L, offering differing points of view.
insights, and suggestions. While the
exchange began with questions on the trial
and campus assault, students soon
branched out.

“Some talked about sexual assault,
but a lot talked about the elirriination of
differences between men and women on
campus,” said Gold. Many of these
students pointed out the incredible
difference between freshman year, when
male and female students live, eat, and
work together, and the stark divisions of
other years, when students separate along
gender lines after joining a Greek
organization. Some suggested that the
near—estrangement could be responsible
for the attitudes that result in W&L’s
above-average sexual assault statistics.

As a result, students called for more
interaction outside of the party scene.
Some recommended that the fraternities
eat lunch on a schedule rotating them
through the sorority houses. Others called
for Greek—sponsored sober activities as a
way to bring together different groups.

“The Commons has so many

THETA COUNTRY-GIRLS STEAL SHOW

programs, but people are not going to
them,” Gold pointed out.

Other topics included depression,
eating disorders, drunk driving, and
communication between the
administration and the student body.

Afterwards, the group facilitators
met to review the suggestions made in
discussion. Two years ago, this resulted
in the establishment of the Panhellenic
ﬁtness classes. This year, students have
proposed a number of actions for Parihel
and IFC to consider, including attempts
to increase awareness of options for
women’s health and for counseling for
problems such as eating disorders.

In an evaluation form, participants
were asked for suggestions for next year’s
topic. Suggestions included stress, eating
disorders, sexual assault a second time,
alcohol abuse, and image issues.

Day of Dialogue attendance is
mandatory for all new members of a Greek
organization. In addition, sororities send
10 upperclassmen and fraternities send
five upperclassmen, including officers.
While the event is open to independents
and faculty, there is very little interest,
according to Gold. A

  

STEVEN MAFIINOS I STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

Search for
new dean
continues

 

The nation-wide search for
Washington and Lee’s new Dean of the
College is winding down to a close.
The four finalists, consisting of both
men and women, scientists and
humanities scholars, will be coming to
campus in the coming weeks.

The search process began with
Provost Thomas Williams selecting
English Professor Ed Craun to chair the
Dean Search Committee. Craun and

committee which brings together 10
College faculty, one trustee, one law
professor, and one School of
Commerce professor.

The committee first devised a
job description to be advertised in the
Chronicle of Higher Education, the
leading publication for college
administrators. The school also asked
presidents from other top Liberal Arts
colleges to recommend candidates for
the job. Applications were due Dec.
13.

After analyzing the candidates’
ﬁles, which contained information on
their scholarly work and educational
projects, the comrriittee narrowed the
candidate pool to 25. The pool was
later shortened to 11, ten of which were
interviewed in Washington D.C. Jan.
21 and 22.

“The semi~ﬁnalists were grilled
for one to one and a half hours,” Craun
said.

Some questions included, “How
should liberal arts institutions be
evolving in the new century? How do
you think that successful faculty work
to serve the liberal arts mission of a
school like Washington and Lee, and
what are the key challenges they face?
What do you see as the best
opportunities for developing the
connection between students’
academic and social lives in the coming
years?”

Craun said the committee was
looking for administrative experience
and talent. They want to find a dean
that will have the administrative style
that will ﬁt at W&L.

While on campus, the candidates
will have meetings with President
Burish, Provost Williams, a selected
group of students, the other deans, and
the department in which they would be
appointed.

Each of these groups will submit
a written evaluation of each candidate.
The selection committee will pick two
of the four and Provost Williams will
have the last word on the university’s
choice.

Williams said that he is looking
for a candidate that the faculty can have
confidence in as a colleague. As a
result of the Board deciding to keep
Spring Term, an additional 20-25
faculty will be hired.

He said that it will be an
“amazing opportunity” for Dean
Peppers and the new Dean of the
College to add the new faculty to a
school with only 160 faculty members.

With the final decision resting on
his shoulders, Williams said the most
important thing he is looking for in tli
new dean is “vision.” 4

Williams will make his decision
in rr1id—March. The new dean, however,
will not start until July 1.

 

Williams worked together to form the‘

 

no.9»-sf

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

  E2085

 

M(WDAY,JAMJARY 31,215

Lexington proves hard sol

Attracting international students to W&L often not easy

ByLed1Kershaw
STAFFWHTER

Washington and Lee’s tradition of
academic excellence is not always enough
to attract international students to rural
Rockbridge County.

Over 30 percent of international
students in the United States attend
colleges and universities in huge cities like
New York and Los Angeles. Washington
and Lee University, located in a rural town
with no public transportation, has
difficulty attracting these students to such
an isolated city.

Deniz Ergin ’O6, from Istanbul,
Turkey, names transportation as one of the
biggest problems facing international
students at Washington and Lee. Ergin

.said he was originally drawn to

Washington and Lee because of its
journalism school and small—town
environment. But Ergin said he did not
know the extent of Washington and Lee’s
isolation before he came to Lexington.

Other international students also
find transportation to be a major problem.
Native Bulgarian Maria Ignatova ’06 said
it is difficult to go anywhere in Lexington
without a car. “It’s very frustrating when
you get bored of a little place like
Lexington and you just want to leave and
go somewhere,” said Ignatova.

“lt’s hard even to get back from the
airports,” said Ergin. Without the use of a
car, said Ergin, international students are
forced to use cabs. A cab ride from
Lexington to Roanoke costs around $80,
said Ergin.

Washington and Lee’s difficulty
attracting international student is further
compounded by a national trend of
decreasing international student

“It’s hard even to get back from the airports.
It’s great to be able to trust people in a city
where you don’t know anyone and can go out
without locking my door.”

— MAHABNA1DVAMﬂVEBULGAHAMG1ﬂEUPSAM3DWVNSFORM'ERNATUMLSﬂ.£JTSNLB(

 

enrollment
universities.

in U.S. colleges and
The number of new

international students enrolling as I

freshmen at Washington and Lee was cut
in half this year, to only 12 students.

Dr. William Klingelhofer, director
of international education at Washington
and Lee, said there are multiple reasons
for the decline. “The perception of the
United State has taken a hit since the war
in Iraq,” said Klingelhofer.

Increased competition among
private liberal arts colleges and
universities in the United States has also
hurt Washington and Lee’s international
student enrollment, said Klingelhofer. He
said colleges and universities in bigger
cities are able to offer a greater variety of
leisure activities and a comprehensive
public transportation system.

Consequently, colleges and
universities comparable to Washington
and Lee in size and academics have a
higher percentage of international
students. In the fall of 2004, international
students comprised 4 percent of the
Washington and Lee undergraduate body.
According to the Institute for lntemational
Education, international students comprise
19 percent of the student body at Mount
Holyoke College and over 9 percent at

If you want to pnspnre yourself for 32 posiiiéon of leeAdsr*s’h.ip»
-in -no-rrsrsint-cation, rrsedis. or the arts. ‘you’?! need a graduate
degree. At Rsag;es1H3ni:%.*ersiiy‘s Sdtoosrl of Communication Re
the Arts yoolt study 'with mtirrvent national media ptolsssionu
arils in one of the truest tachnologscaliy advanced tncilims on
the east coast.

Visit our "s{rgis1§.a: Beach Campus during Preview Wealoannlé
to ﬁnd out more about our-degree programs including:

Middlebury College.
The students agree with
Klingelhofer’s reasoning for the declining

numbers of international students-at"

Washington and Lee.

Arslan Volkan ’O5, a native of
Istanbul, Turkey, said that the town of
Lexington provides very little social
diversity. Students are limited in their
dining and entertainment options, and you
need a car even to go to the local bowling
alley, he said.

Volkan said that the social
atmosphere and lack of public
transportation in Lexington became so
frustrating that he had to escape back to
Turkey for his junior year, taking classes
at Bogazici University.

Granted, the on-campus activities
offered by student organizations this year
have created additional social
opportunities, said Volkan. But
Washington and Lee and the city of
Lexington must work together to create
more of a niche for international students,
said Volkan.

Still, the small town atmosphere of
Lexington is not without its benefits. “It’s
great to be able to trust people in a city
where you don’t know anyone and can go
out without locking my door,” said Ergin.

v Cinemnatoélsviséionlsaiimstiwon

v Communication Studies

« Phﬂ. in Communication
» Theatre Arts
«- doumaiism

Each semester, college students

are asked to ﬁll out teacher evaluations, _

only to watch thesinformation disappear
into the abyss, never to be seen again.
Word of mouth was the only option
students had to-learnt about professors

’ until recently.

At RateMyProfossors.corn,
students can now anonymously rate
professors on their helpfulness, clarity,
difﬁcuity of classes and even physical
attractiveness. Students can also leave
comments about professors and the
courses they teach. a

The Website was founded in 1999

. by John Swapceinski, who graduated

that year from San Jose State University.
“1 got the idea for the site after taking a
class with a particularly dastardly
professor who often left students in tears
and genuinely seemed to enjoy it,” he
said.

Students who visit the site can
check professors’ ratings, or rate
professors on a.-l to 5 scale, 5 being the
best, in the categories of heipfulness,
clarity and easiness. Although some

a expect the site to be just aplace to bash

professors, almost 70% of the ratings are
positive, according to Swapceinski.

At‘ the time of this writing,
RatcMyProfessors.com had a total of
618 ratings for 168 Washington and Lee

University professors. One of

::':~,°>rsuy is wxzrrrditad by Ihs=iiT‘ssrr2s1s<»w:ri run ‘Iii’:-ilat»;*,:-., at she f%a:¢stt1tru§o"es3ce2siiun«:v§ ‘5,.‘s2?'€'3E(k‘f2!?.’av-dllil l.‘.«’€hvo!s ij l‘5f§-4:- Izésuthzrn 1..-nus. iwcateri <I«‘?5.;!b’<Iﬂvrll3€."i’;
£‘«.'-arch;-sr:.r, rumévsr WI «rx‘i‘..~* 21%: 3 to award the l3§s'£l‘b<é'lIﬁ%"""3.. a'nra1>rr’s and r.ls.2st.r:-rat degrees. losorm 1.t‘nie¢:r:r»:.2r,s."~<. ,§K>llClt§ wvzrniru the admission :4! savanna ream in its
ruissuarr ssrtzmrnt, his are not amismti  prosilrdve s diwrse anglers isuxxty   of ms:-2. cs:t%or..  Ji%%':ity. or nstsmkzf--2»: ethos: main. Rniﬂttﬂ Uﬂl*£'!7‘-’$1'i3«’ is
sr<*r%il'2».*s1‘?»,-* this ﬁrms ti‘-c<m»::i~l. ca“ ms 'H:.4:.h2r lédtxsmon for ‘virgins: to ogaastxv -tatnpuscss within the z..fa:mmorM*svalth Int” ';txa,e:aan. (.‘X’.’&!~«i£!,‘i22«K!1!»

Students anonymously
A grade professors   online
l{’ateMyProfessors.com provides S 
fommlfor studentstoexpress 

. aysqizssni

Washington and Lee ilniversityfs

. highest rated professors was Professor - .
» Mohamed Kamara of the Lang‘-uagles. 

department, with an overall: rating of
4.4. Of the Ioratings for this professor,
comments included f‘I-Ie’s ‘so

wonderful, the best professor ever". 1

and “Easy, nice, a great prof, short
books and short papers”, _ .
The Website also dispiays each
school’s “hottest” professors,
indicated by a red chili pepper icon,
With 11 “hot” votes, Erofessor
Eduardo Velasquez just may be the
prof with the most secret crushes on
campus. _ .
The site is not without itsecritics.
Some students question the validity of
the ratings, especially since students
are not required to log in to rate
professors. Even the site's list of
frequently asked questions admits,
“Remember, we have no way of
knowing who is doing the rating -
students, the teacher, other teachers,
parents, dogs, cats, etc.” I
The website includes .a section

of the funniest ratings ever posted 

reads, “Bon'ng! But I learned there are
137 tiles on the ceiling.” Another: “He
will destroy you like an academic
ninja.” .
Swapceinski stated he receives
threats of legal action from irate
professors every week. “It’s amazing,"

he said, "the number of professors with 
Ph.Ds that don’.tget.the concept of the -I I

First Amendment.‘

, 

i'liL.l¥..'1II. (3.? if ($9.?-5M l.5..’K‘l‘. N.7'i\'i’ 52 "f H {'2 i'£§'k."l't'>z

V

4

  

NKNDAY,JAMJARY 31 ,ZI5

snorts

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

THIS WEEK

TUESDAY, FEB.1
-Women’s Basketball at EMU; 7:00

FRIDAY, FEB.4
'Track at VMI; TBA

SATURDAY, FEB.5

-Men’s Tennis at Furman; 9:00
IWrestling hosts; 11:00

-Men’s Basketball vs. Harnpden
Sydney; 2:00

lWomen’s Basketball at RMWC;
2:00

Track at VMI; TBA

SlNDAY, FEB.6

.Men’s Tennis at E&H; 2:00
-Men’s Basketball vs. Lynchburg;
2:00

-Women’s Basketball vs.
Lynchburg; 4:30

SPORTS BRIEFS

Wrestling Places Third at
Appnenlicelnviiational (1/29)
The Washington and Lee wrestling
team placed third out of eight teams
at the Apprentice School
Invitational on Saturday afternoon

I in Newport News, Va.

 

COURTESY SPORTS |NFOFlMATlON

Men’s Basketball Downedby
Fioanoke,64-60(1/29)

Freshman forward Josh LaPorte
(Staunton, Va./Riverheads) notched
career-highs in points (14), rebounds
(16) and steals (5) to lift Roanoke to
a 64-60 win over Washington and
Lee in ODAC men’s basketball

‘ action on Saturday evening at the

Warner Center.

Women’s Basketball Edged Out
byRoanoke,47-46 (1/29)

Senior forward Chandra Forrester
(Wytheville, Va./Rural Retreat) hit
two free throws with no time
remaining on the clock to give
Roanoke a 47-46 victory over
Washington and Lee in ODAC
women’s basketball action on
Saturday afternoon at the Warner
Center.

      
 

  

  
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
 


lllig .l 

 

  

j

1. .1

ll


     

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 ° 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Callforworkshop&dassintonnatlon.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunlon
On I-8) / I-64 at exit 205. Raphine. «miles west on
Route 606. Raphine RM /M/rr/or a working
farm that oﬁers "U-PICK" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

lites - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
m 

     
 

  

Runners set records at meet

ByMa~shaIRde
wmeneeprron

Nathan Johnson has not slowed
down from Cross Country season.
Johnson took top honors among Division
HI runners in the 3000 meter race at the
Christopher Newport Invitational on
Saturday.

The meet included teams from
Division I, H, and IH. Johnson ﬁnished
fourth overall with a school record time
of 8:37.24. He can add this
accomplishment to his growing resume.
In the fall Johnson won the Cross Country
Regionals earning himself a bid to
Nationals. .

That was not the only record that
Johnson broke. In the distance medley
relay he teamed up with junior Andrew
Johnson, senior Lee Stinnett, and
freshman Jack Jeong to take fourth place

 

“I was really excited and pleased
with my performance. I didn’t do
as well as I had hoped in my ﬁrst
meet this year, so it was great to
do better this time.”

-ELlZABE|'HBRAM.X.ER

and break the school record with a time of
10:50.76.

“I ran really well” Johnson said.
“Saturday was my main race. Iknew what
the record time was to beat and it was
always in the back of my head.” At
outdoors last year Johnson missed the
record by five seconds.

Johnson continued, “It was a really

great meet with a lot of talent.”

Nathan Johnson was not the only
athlete to break a school record at the track
meet.

Freshman Elizabeth Brandler also
set two records. Brandler took second
among Division III athletes in the pole
vault with a height of 10 feet six inches.
The jump was enough for fourth place

overall and a school record.

“I was really excited and pleased
with my performance” Brandler said. “I
didn’t do as well as I had hoped in my
first meet this year, so it was great to do
better this time.”

Brandler took home another record
in the triple jump with a length of 34 feet
‘/2 inch and a first place finish among
Division HI athletes.

But, Brandler has bigger goals in
mind. “I really want to get that 11 foot
mar ” Brandler said. “I really want to
qualify for ODAC’s. I also want to go to
Nationals. That would be really cool.”

Meredith Walker also took home a
school record in the 60 meters with a time
of 8.69 seconds. Meanwhile Senior Brian
Krupczak took home third among Division
HI athletes in the 55 meters.

The Generals hope to break a few
more records at their next meet on
February 4'“ at the VMI Winter Relays.

Pa. football fans
have great year

Krall oﬁers her hometown perspective

ByKahynKrd
STAFFWFITER

It may sound cliched, but in
Pennsylvania, football is a way of life.
With the Pittsburgh Steelers and the
Philadelphia Eagles competing in the AFC
and NFC championship, there has never
been a better time to be a Pennsylvania
football fan.

The love of the game starts at a high
school level. Standouts are the heroes of
small towns across the state. The
atmosphere at the Friday night game is the
stuff of movies, with the steam from hot
chocolate ﬁlling the air and scarves taken
off to be used as banners. In Pennsylvania,
even the high schools have football bands,
not to mention the colleges. Football
permeates everyday existence. Not only
do people wear NcNabb jerseys, but they
also try out the latest Terrell Owens
touchdown celebration dance at the school
prom.

In college, the football obsession
only grows. Joe Patemo would be elected
governor unanimously if he chose to run,
and claiming to bleed blue and white is
common. In Pennsylvania, girls actually
watch football for reasons other than tight
pants.

If you aren’t from either of the
major cities of PA (perhaps I should say

the only cities), who you cheer for is
hereditary. I am an Eagles fan because
my dad is one, who is one because his
father always has been one. When the
patriarch of the family dies, his oldest son
inherits his football paraphernalia.

At the pro level, the fans are even
more devoted, and with good reason.
Combined, the two teams have only been
defeated ﬁve times, and Philly’s first loss
was at the hands of Pittsburgh. With
record-setting feats, hard work, and
unparalleled theatrics, the players
themselves characterize what it is to be a
Pennsylvania football player. Donovan
McNabb has been setting records for an
African—American quarterback, while Ben
Roethlisberger is probably the most
successful rookie QB ever. Duce Staley
and Brian Westbrook personify strength
and determination, and Terrell Owens is
in a league of his own.

After three excruciating losses in
the NFC championship game in a row, the
Eagles have finally earned a Super Bowl
berth. The Steelers fell to the Patriots in
the AFC championship game, but the
Eagles are out to avenge the defeat of their
brother team. My prediction for the
superbowl? The Patriots may have the
advantage on paper, but the Eagles have
heart, and a strong tradition of PA football
behind them.

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group’ s time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, OOO—
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call TODAY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with CaIr[pusFundraiser.
Contact CampusFundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

Sporsﬂeleme

S”(J=l'|'SI\FC}?v1ATU\l

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams swept
Marymount on Saturday afternoon in
Arlington, Va. The men upped their
record to 6-2 with a 133-68 victory,
while the women improved to 8-6 with
a 124-79 win.

' In the men’s meet, the foursome
. of sophomore Kevin Hayes (Mercer
Island, Wash./Mercer Island), freshman
Stuart Frankfort (Lynchburg, Va./E.C.
Glass), senior Chris Colby (Ossining,
N.Y./Archbishop Stepinac) and
sophomore Maxwell Pike (Goldsboro,
N .C./Wayne Country Day) won the 400-
yard medley relay in a time of 3:41.89.

Colby also won the 200-yard
butterﬂy in 2:00.64, while Frankfort
captured the 200-yard IM in 2:08.99.
Junior Clark Barrineau (Charlotte, N.C./
South Mecklenburg) was victorious in

two individual events. He touched the

KELLY BOSS / FILE PHOTO

hﬂ1isweeler1d’sn1akﬂ1upMu1MaymounLﬂ1ema1’sa1dworna1’sswmnhg

Swimming teams sweep
Marymount on Saturday

Team records improve to 6-2, 8-6

wall first in both the 500-yard (5205.00)
and 1000-yard (10:28.33) freestyles.

In the women’s meet, the quartet
of freshman Jess Cobb (Moorestown,
N .J ./Moorestown), sophomore Abbie
Sauter (Darien, Conn./Darien), freshman
Amy Roberson (Nacogdoches, Texasl
N acogdoches), and senior Suzie LaFleur
(Natick, Mass./Montrose) captured the
400—yard medley relay in a time of
4:16.31.

Sauter and junior Kristine Holda
(strongsville, Ohio/Strongsville) each
won two individual events. Sauter was
victorious in both the 200-yard IM
(2:18.84) and 200-yard breaststroke
(2132.94), while Holda won both the
100-yard (55.94) and 200-yard (2:02.40)
freestyle events.

The W&L men’s swimming team
returns to the pool at the Bluegrass
Mountain Conference Championships
from Thu., Feb. 17 to Sat., Feb. 19. The
W&L women’s swimming team returns
to action at the ODAC Championships
from Fri., Feb. 18 to Sun., Feb. 20.

#1 snring Break Vacations

canoun. Iamaloa, lleanuloo. Bahamas 8. F|0l‘|I|a|
Best Parties. Best Ilotels Best Prices!
Iiroun nlsoounts. nruanlzors Travel Free!
Snaoe Is Ilmllolll 00011 How 8. Save!
1-000-234-1001 vrwvrenulesssummenoursoom

$$$Easy Money $$$

I will pay $40 for your phone book
Call Lee Ramsey toll free
1-866-577-7237

  Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas
and Florida. Now hiring on-camp.us reps. Call for
group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or wvvw.ststrave|.com.

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier411.com
1 877 SEE POOL

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&|ife

 

llﬂ‘DAY,JAMJAFlY31,ZX5

Mrs. Kemb1e’s

Tempest Shines

at Lenfest
Ziegler’s renowned
play performed

ByNaciaWolfe

STAFF\M7!TB:i

“Shakespeare’s plays,” Fanny
Kemble declares towards the end of the
play, “all of them, are about only one
thing: being human.” The same can
be said for Mrs. Kemble’s Tempest, a
masterful play by W&L Theatre
professor Tom Ziegler. It is no small
wonder the play came out of a month-
long run at the Fringe, a famous—and
tough to please—annual play festival
with a five star rating, the highest
possible.

Fanny Kemble, daughter to the
famous actor Charles Kemble, was one
of the most celebrated actresses of the
nineteenth century. Despite this, she
considered herself primarily a writer,
keeping journals, writing poetry, and
authoring plays. Ever struggling for
freedom, first from her family’s history
as great actors, then from her father’s
lack of financial success, from a
marriage in which she was expected to
be subservient, and ﬁnally ﬁnancing
herself as a divorcee. Her
inconquerable nature led Henry James
to say of her, “A prouder nature never
affronted the long humiliation of life.
She had, from the first, abundantly
lived.”

This proud nature and
courageous spirit comes across
brilliantly in Zeigler’s play. The play’s
premise is a hypothetical 1869 farewell
reading of Shakespeare’s The Tempest
by Mrs. Kemble. However, the
audience is treated to more than just
Shakespeare. “Is it not possible, given
the ﬁnality of this engagement, I might
digress?” she asks, and proceeds to do
just that between parts of Tempest and
several other Shakespearean plays, as
well as scenes from her own life,
always playing every part.

Whoever said, “Those who can’t
do, teach,” obviously hasn’t seen Jane
Ridley on the stage. A professor in the
Professional Actor Training Program at
Pennsylvania State University, Ms.
Ridley takes a demanding role and
soars with it. She is utterly believable
as Kemble——as well as the many roles
Kemble performs. She is perfectly
charming as the witty, independent,
tragic yet triumphant Fanny Kemble.
She skillfully portrays not only
Kemble’s enduring strength of
character, but also her vulnerability and
hurts without making her unrealistic or
saccharine. Ridley was well—supported
by Josh Harvey (class of 2000) as her
frazzled accompianist and Tom
Anderson (W&L Theatre Technical
Director and professor) as the annoyed
stage hand at her beck and call. The
music, selected by Harvey, was both
historically and theatrically appropriate
for the scenes she was acting at the
time.

This production boasts new set
and costume designs since its original
production. Jere Lee Hodgin, also the
director, created a beautiful Victorian
setting with an appropriate color palette
of mainly burgundy with gold, and
Mary A. Folino’s golden hoop dress
meshed well both with the set and the
new wig Lighter than last year’s, it is
colored to show the aging of the then
sixty year old actress in a beautiful
snood updo. These changes are well
made, and contribute subtly to Ziegler’s
play.

Mrs. Kemble’s Tempest is a
literary and theatrical feast for any
audience. Hilariously funny,
wonderfully uplifting, this story of the
triumph of one human soul is
magnificent and touching, and
emminently entertaining. As she
realizes at the end, her own quest for
independence has ﬁnally been fulﬁlled
through the stage she initially rejected:
“Mister Shakespeare, he was my refuge
wasn’t he? He was my liberator.”
Bravo, Mrs. Kemble.

Duell’ingi”be,,  to at e an

“Dreaming and

I ; BvK2hvnKml

$"&ZFlSl'AH"VlHTE3

_ The filming for the original
screenplay, “Dreaming and Duelling,”
. that is being made here at Washington
'*.a.'ndLeeisinitsﬁnaiweek. Workon
the project began during the summer,
 bptpthe lasttwo,wee_ks havepbeen the
“ ? most intense’ ‘as the actors and
production crew have been working
-around the clock to complete the
V ‘ Paige Smith, a junior theater
r major, has been an extra in a ﬁlm, but
her role in “Dreaming and Dueiling”
. ' is her first speaking role. She plays
V Mrs. Thorpe, the fencing coach of the
character Eric Culien, who is played
j, by Michael Wagoner. Wagoner is a
I sophomoretheatermajorwhobecaxne
I excited about the film because he
_- knew it was a big chance for the
. . department. “‘I decided that I would
I “like to be a part of such a different
V ' sort of venture" said Wagoner. This

is his ﬁrstmajor role as well.
I j ‘ - Balancing a full academic

course load  the rigors‘ of  i
such an extensive project has proved
challenging to the actors involved.

. “Luckily all the t":1miag,isfat night.;;so 7
there is not conflict with classes I
all, but homework is a different story. ’
Most of us have been  some
work toeach of the sheets for down

»  So far I haven’t fatten  it": _
any of my classes, andiI'Adon’t’see?th'a‘t I
I w‘ ” said Wagoner.

Most“ of the "difficulties of. 7 ‘ "

ﬁlminglstem from the  aspect
of production. .‘‘Setting‘ up the lighting, ,
and shots takes the most time’?.said..
Smith. There have been few maior
complications on the acting side of the
filming.
obstacles are frustrating because they;
are unexpected. ‘ » I '  .'
Frequently the actors have to use «
all their resourcefulness. and creativity
to solve what appearto "be siinpie
problems. but often prove to be quite
complicated. T ‘:0 ’

VI-I'owever..l‘_even minor,‘ —.  =

whitzeiiefezicing-ioutfit, but tiienlvitt We
havetogo  _ .
The problem then was that I  biood
allover me.whe_i[t I wasn 

’ Luckily fwejreiIiov'ed  as A A
‘conid and then used some white tape ; j
‘ to the rest of the coioring._’f ' if ‘V’

lpﬁlthoughloften  ,
aneiftusttaﬁns; ﬁlmin is
usually enjoyaiiiie ana.a.s1ss"i:,

‘S vest those.’

learning the “fight choreograp I
haveo’t hadmuch experience-

,‘ Astageiﬁpghtingpand iearningr M
vmoyes», while exhausting, was

entertaining” said Wagoner. \
7 Even after, experieneinj thf

.stress1o£'rna§;mg..a movie, "Smith 
7decipdedthattl1e.gAoodfaroutweighsi ‘
bad. .‘‘i interested. in going int 7

"ﬁlnjiindustryfa”fter ‘on,-’ " “

tsp.-as moves: .LA;-and  ‘a

Wagoner explaini_edione,s" it  

situation: “One difficulty was  i ,

ﬁnal scene there’s stage biood used.

And it would get all qmme, my i i.

; favorite experience thus far‘ I  -  I
 ography. I ’havert’t had much experience age

a  

_ Allearrting all the moves, while exhattsting,  entertairtirti"

Orchestra gives first concert

Bystatewlson
ST AFFWFUTER

Saturday night, both local residents
and Washington and Lee students braved
wintry conditions to make their way to the
Lenfest Center for an evening of music.
Despite a barrage of freezing rain and iced-
over roads, a sizeable crowd emerged to
hear the University-Shenandoah
Symphony Orchestra give its first
performance of the new semester.

Entitled “A Visitor from Portugal”,
the night was an occasion to highlight the
collaborative efforts of guest conductor
José Ferreira Lobo. Besides a traditional
symphony by Brahms, the concert was to
feature several works characteristic of the
Iberian Peninsula, including its composers
and musical style.

Lobo entered the stage to a ﬂurry
of applause and the show began.
Symphony No. l in C by Brahms, a piece
of four movements, highlighted Lobo.’s
artistic direction and the high quality of
the performers.

With little doubt, the notes were
clear and full of resonance, and the
selection allowed for a full range of

emotion and technical expertise to be"

expressed. The only problem seemed to
be during the second movement when the
conductor could be heard directing an
audible “shh” to the Violin H section.

However, this stylistic qualm is
most likely attributable to the generally too
short and too few practices that come with
a guest conductor. The orchestra more than
compensated in the fourth movement with
an ending that was both soaring and
climatic.

As the first symphony ended, looks
of bewilderment crossed the faces of the
audience as the house lights remained
dark. The puzzlement increased as Lobo,
after leading the orchestra in a series of
bows, launched into the second act.

With titles such as “La Boda de Luiz
Alonso”, or “The Wedding of Luiz
Alonso”, the USSO ﬁlled the audience’s
imagination with images of festive parties
and wild dancing in the old countries of
Spain and Portugal. The mood was set
with the marked inclusion of castanets,
and a brass section whose energy ﬁlled
each piece.

Unfortunately, the party did not last.
After about three pieces, the house lights

did go up and the hour came for everyone
to go home. Apparently, time constraints
had indeed cut short the numbers of pieces
the symphony could play. Nonetheless, the
professionalism and talent of all those
involved was notable. The brief glimpse
into Iberia was a delight well worth the
battle against ice and cold.

Maestro Lobo, whose Orquestra do
Norte plays more than 140 concerts and a
year in Portugal, took a moment to speak
after the performance. Noting his delight
at being invited to play by Dr. Barry
Kolman, full time head of the USSO, he
described the students he worked with as,
“very lovely people” who “enjoy music.”
He also expressed how impressed he was
the group, which includes many people for
whom music is not a principle profession.
While affirming his desire for more
practice time, he also stressed his
experience as “a pleasure” that he deeply
enjoyed. The USSO Hill will complete its
concert series on Saturday, March 12 with
a selection called “American & Russian
Masterpieces” with guest ﬂutist Katherine
De] ongh. Tickets are free for W&L
students and may be reserved at the
Lenfest Center box office extension 5000.

Film Society
offers diverse

selection

Why go to the
country when you
can stay in the city?

BVEIYSEMOOUV

STAFFVWWTBR

With pledges around to drive
eager partygoers out to the country or
just about anywhere else, W & L
students have a pretty busy social
calendar this winter. However, I
suggest that you check out the movies
playing in the Commons every once in
a while. They show some really quality
ﬁlms, along with some lower- grade but
hilarious ones, and there are convenient
showings at 7:00 PM or 9:30 PM
during the week.

The Commons will be showing
Team America: World Police at 7:00
PM on Monday, January 31, 9:30 PM
on Tuesday, 9:30 PM on Thursday, and
9:30 on Friday. Remember that show
Thunderbirds, the military one with the
creepy wooden puppets? Well, Chris
Parker and Matt Stone (better known
as the creators of South Park) have
implemented these stunning special
effects in their ﬁlm satirizing the war
against terrorism.

As their byline wittily asserts,
they’re “putting the F back in
‘Freedom’.” I haven’t seen this one
yet, but I have only heard good things
about it. My brother mentioned
something about an interesting love
scene...with puppets. Weird but
hilarious is the consensus, and if you
like South Park, I’m sure you’ll love
it. The theme song expresses this best:
“Team America: f@ !* yeah!”

At 7:30 on Friday, February 4
and Saturday, February 5, the Film
Society presents The Dreamers, a ﬁlm
by Bernardo Bertolucci. Matthew, an
American studying in Paris, is drawn
to Isabella and Theo, a French brother
and sister duo, by their common love
of cinema. Set against the backdrop
of the student riots in the l960’s, this
film captures the unique characteristics
of a friendship formed in the midst of
intense conflict. It provides a
wonderful, intellectual contrast to
Team America.

Just before Washington Break,
Shark Tale will be playing on Monday,
February 8 at 7:00 PM and on Thursday
and Friday at 9:30 PM. Incorporating
the talents of huge celebrities like Will
Smith, Renee Zellweger, Robert De
Niro, Angelina Jolie, Jack Black,
Martin Scorsese, and Ziggy Marley,
Shark Tale is a comedy written in the
same vein as Shrek—it has a little bit
of comedy for everyone. When Oscar,
a young ﬁsh, is found at the scene of a
shark mob boss’s son’s murder, he
takes advantage of the opportunity to
toughen up his bottom-feeder
reputation without considering the
consequences of his.actions. This
movie sounds like the murder mystery
version of Finding Nemo, although I’m
not sure it can possibly live up to this
precedent.

Finally, upon our return from the
break, the biographical film Ray,
chronicling the life of the legendary
Ray Charles, will be shown. J amie Fox
gives a simply astounding performance
in the title role, proving his talents
beyond the realm of comedy and
exhibiting the results of many months
of intensive research and study. He is
incredible as Charles—virtual1y a
mirror image of the recently-deceased
songwriter. Kerry Washington makes
her debut on the big screen as Della
Bea Robinson. 1 am really looking
forward to this one. I have the
soundtrack, and it is really a lot of fun
to listen to. Although “Georgia on my
Mind” is a standard for all of us
Southerners, the album is full of
Charles’ best-known tracks and a
couple of live recordings-——it’s worth
buying even if you aren’t interested in
the movie.

 

“ MONDAY,JAMJARY31,2m5 11-|E R]NG.‘|TUM pm . 5

‘ HIDDEN VALLEY FARM

Aptly named for its magnificent set-
ting at the base of the Blue Ridge Moun-
tains, HIDDEN VALLEY FARM offers, on
438 acres, an exceptional combination of a
privately situated farmstead, productive
upland acreage, unobstructed mountains
views, practical improvements to accom-
modate horses and cattle, healthy wood-
lands, providing habitat for plentiful wild-
life, and abundant water resources pro-
vided by numerous springs, wells, and
one-half mile of the Saint Mary's River.

The solid brick home exhibits early
Shenandoah craftsmanship with heartpine
ﬂoors, six fireplaces, carved mantels, and
simple, solid woodwork throughout the
six primary rooms.

The cottage and early log smokehouse
complement the hospitality of the home.
Horse facilities include seven stalls in a
stable complete with an office, washrack,
and feed and tack room. Nearby are six
day stalls and two stallion stalls with indi-
vidualpens. There is a large crushed stone
exercise area suitable for a ring or rings.

Additional structures include numer-
ous run-in sheds, a pole building for hay
storage, a machine shed and a traditional
bank barn.

A ﬂexible conservation easement con-
veys with the farm.

Hidden Valley Farm: $2,450,000

CABIN ON THE MAURY

 

.I’

‘ §:3§§I£§§rZT§fa§§Z’b§i1§lli?§e féfiﬂﬂllf’    19"“ Land C°mPa“Y
' ’ ‘ P ' Old School Realtors

Walk swim or canoe to town.
_ g office: (540) 348-2000
  °a'°'" °" “'9 ""a"'Y= 5°‘-D residence: (540) 348-5656
wvwv.|andandestates.com

  

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MCIDAYJAMJARY 31,215

0Il|Il|0|lS

 

Quick hits to end

In light of recent concerns,
the Editors of The Ring—tum Phi
have decided to remove the
“Quick'Hits” section from our V
newspaper. An anonymous
forum such as Quick Hits creates
irresponsibility and allows for
personal attacks.

Though it was the most
popular feature of the newspaper,
an anonymous open forum such
as Quick Hits is irresponsible
journalism. Students abused
anonymity, used derogatory
language and offended multiple
members of the student body in
the year and a half that the feature
existed.

We are taking a week off
and revising the section. “Quick
Hits” is dead. The concept of an
anonymous forum is very much
alive.

This idea was ours alone.
Our policy had been to print all
the quick hits we received unless
one was clearly aimed at a certain
individual student or was
extremely lewd. We can longer
abide by this policy because, as
editors, we carmot always foresee
what will offend certain members
of the student body. We can no
longer, in good conscience, allow
an anonymous forum that
contains potential offensive
remarks to run in our paper.

Quick Hits is a section with
huge liability, and we are
designing a way to retain the
anonymous forum without
printing offensive, mean-spirited ‘
and slanderous material.

Quick Hits has hurt and
offended our fellow students. We
carmot in good conscience defend
juvenile attacks. We will defend
anonymous, legitimate criticisms’
of campus life and the
Administration and we will now
ensure that this is how Quick Hits
functions— as a legitimate forum,
not as a juvenile rant.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions editor Caley Anderson gives
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0“Grammer”

GrammAr! With an a! You’re
EDUCATED PEOPLE! Don’t get me
started on they’re/their, or your/you’re.

Ovirginia Militaly Inslitute
Damn it, I write an editorial about
how cadets deserve more respect and
then they do THIS.

ONashington&LeeUniVersity

But then again, we beat them to it.

Ocainescym

I know we have a nice ﬁtness center in
the gym, but when things start rusting,
don’t they deserve an itty bit of
maintenance?

0 AP Test

I had to get a FIVE on the
Government test to place out of
Politics 100? My FOUR was
insufficient? That’s like calling a “B”
grade failing.

0 Health
When Professor DeLaney cancels

_class....there’s a bug going around.

()Michael Jackson

Criticizes media for reporting leaked
information from his Grand Jury
hearing. This from the man who
stands on a car and plays to the crowd
after being charged with child
molestation.

Ooptimism
Everything’s down this week.
 

Student body in

need of a reality check

ByAmeFIiey

T}‘EBGPCTU¥

This is my second year both at

‘Washington and Lee and writing for the _

Phi. Looking back on how the subject
matter of my opinion pieces have evolved,
I realize I’m starting to become more like
the typical college student, following the
same trends people have before me. I
started out, like anyone would who has
suddenly been thrown into a new and
strange environment, commenting and
critiquing the student body and culture. I
gave advice as only a freshman could,
wrote about the unnecessary division of
students as being from the “North” versus
“South,” touted college as the ideal
opportunity for self-discovery, and urged
students to break out of the mold of the
“typical”; W&L student.

This year, I’ve tended away from
preachy pieces aimed at the student body,
and instead focused on suggested reform
by the mother of all collegiate scapegoats,
the administration. My last two articles,
for example, called for a better scheduling
of breaks and a reversal of the sudden and
steady increases in tuition and other related
costs. But just when I’ve finally come in
line with the majority of school newspaper
writers in occasionaﬂy ﬁnding reason to
criticize our school’s management, I find
myself needing to stray over the issue of
how the administration is handling the
alcohol crisis.

Call me na'1've, but whether or not
recent actions and policies are completely
effective, I truly believe our school’s
leadership is trying to act in the best
interest of our student body. Sadly, liability
in our day and age must inevitably be a
serious consideration, but this is hardly the
main reason why steps are being taken to
curb incidents of dangerous behaviors and
sexual assault. Is it really so hard to
believe that our President and deans care
about our health? That they could, being
a little older and wiser than us, actually
have some decent ideas and perspective
about how to make the long-terrn situation
of our school even better?

I absolutely love that our school is

unique, that it has history, and that there
is no place like it on Earth. But we must
admit that it is also seriously in need of a
reality check. To cite, once again, the
startling results of student surveys last

year, studentshere (especially females) are .

about twice as likely to be sexually
assaulted than at other national
institutions, and twice as likely to have an
eating disorder. No one can tell me that
this is a good thing, or that it adds to the
special character of our school. It is not
normal, and it is not right. To say, as I all
too frequently hear, that this “happens at
all colleges” or “is just a fact ‘of life in
college” is a cop out. '

Binge drinking, though it happens
across the country, is also not the norm of
behavior for people our age. Yet, whether
or not its prevalence is exaggerated on our
campus, the practice seems generally
accepted by the student body. It is treated
like a joke, in fact. I always get a bad
feeling in my gut every time I overhear
someone nonchalantly laughing about
how they can’t remember what they did
the night before. I understand that mistakes
happen, that people lose count and drink
more than they intend. But when drinking
to get drunk and blacking out during the
weekend becomes routine, something has
to be done. This is not me being morally
superior; morals in my opinion have
nothing to do with it. I worry for people’s
safety, just as the administration worries,
because I don’t want one of my friends or
fellow students to die needlessly or do
something they will regret for the rest of
their lives. So, for just a minute, honestly
try to put yourself in the administration’s
place. They’ve been around the block a
few more times than we have and I respect
their position. There is absolutely a place,
and a need, for concerned students to
speak their minds about problems they see
with any policy. But when we start laying
all the blame elsewhere and saying this
school’s leadership is acting in their own
self—interest rather than ours, nothing gets
resolved. We have to take some
responsibility for having necessitated
these changes and then get our own
behavior under control. That is the
ultimate experiment in self government.

m—~—=]~— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY S-1
TH E RINO -’I‘UM PHI.
EDITORS-IN-CHIEF ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR MARSHALL RULE
NEWS EDITOR SARAH MURRAY
ASST. NEWS EDITOR KATHERINE SHELL
OPINIONS EDITOR CALEYANDERSON
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR ANNE FINLEY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR EMILY EDwARDS
PHOTO EDITOR CORBIN BLACKFORD
LAYOUT EDITORS CHAD KIEwIEr DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN
BUSINESS MANAGER DAVID SEIFERT
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR ROB RAIN
ASST. CIRCULATION DIRECTORS LEGGET K|'l'CHlN

ELIzABE11-I ROBINSON
YINYAN Ll

ROHAN POOJARA

COPY EDITORS AMANDATHOLKE

VANESSA ARNESS

DAVID KRONENFELD
SI-IAI£wLsON

771sRi1g4z1nPIT'SpIbishedMmda3SdumgtTeIrdeIgIadua1Esdndyear
atWaSl'IirigtmandLeeUriversiIy,Le><'ngl0I’I,\/IIg'nia.
ﬂeHhgtmHTlsanernberdﬂ1eRbia3ﬁaIsBoam,bIniSdtIeTwbeimepaTda1t


Alstbrrmionsmustbee-maiedtophi@vv1U.eduorintheUniversitycentermaboxbyspm.
Fridaytoappearinthefollowingweel€sedtior1.
7hel%g-amﬂiresewestterigtttoedtstbrﬁssiasforomternartdbngm.
LetteIsandoolurnrIsdorIotneoessaIi|yreﬂe<1Iheop'nion<>t TheFIhg-tIImPhiEdtoria|BoaIId.
AdveI1isingdOeSndrefectﬂTeopinior1sof7heHhg-hmPﬁoritsstaff.
ThisrIewSpaperobser\/esmnemootmdeﬁniﬁasotﬂaelardobsoetity.

TheF&1g-tunPhI'
341
WasrhgIaor1arIdLeeUrIi~/ecsity

Lex'ngton,VIr9"ia24450
Telephone: (540)4584060
Fax (540)4584059
Emai:phI'@wlu.edu
Stbsofpﬁon rate$40

A baby’s life
begins at birth,
not at conception

Plenty of evidence in both religion
and philosophy for pro—choicers

ByBeckyLeMohe

Tl-ELEMLVEW

When pro-life activists try to use
the Declaration of Independence and
science as means to justify government
involvement in the abortion issue, they
are blatantly avoiding some basic
realities. First of all, ontological
questions, such as “What is life and
when does it start?” are neither clear
nor simple issues. No human being
knows with absolute certainty the
answer to such a question, and thus
many people develop different views.

For example, pro-life Christians
often claim that life begins at the
moment of conception, rather than the
moment of birth. However, in the
Bible, Genesis 2:7 says, “And the Lord
God formed man of the dust of the
ground, and breathed into his nostrils
the breath of life; and man became a
living soul.” If we were to literally
interpret this passage, it indicates that
life begins with the first breath; this
first breath is experienced upon exiting
the mother’s womb.

People of various backgrounds
constantly disagree on the exact
moment that life commences, and none
can actually prove their point of view.
For all we know, all of our philosophies
could be completely wrong.

With this in mind, along with the
concession that determining the start
of life is a complicated and
controversial issue, we can then fully
examine the Declaration. The pro-life
argument here is based on the fact that
pregnancy involves “two distinct
bodies” and therefore we do not have
the right to deprive the unborn of life.
However, this statement is not only
very misleading, but also inaccurate.
Throughout the entire process, is the
fetus ever self-sustaining? The answer
is no.

The fetus is completely
physically dependant upon its mother
throughout pregnancy. Therefore, the
fetus is neither a distinct body, nor a
separate entity. It only has the potential
for an individual life.

Furthermore, the Constitution
itself defines what the United States
considers as a life and hence a citizen
possessing rights. The Fourteenth
Amendment states, “All persons born
or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are
citizens of the United States and of the
State —wherein they reside.” This clause
clearly does not include pre-born
humans.

In contrast, the mother is an
actual, developed, thinking, and feeling
human being. Thus, the pro-life
argument is essentially that we should
deny the rights of an actual human
being, for the sake of providing rights
to a potential human being. This is an
extreme breach of a woman’s privacy.

In the words of philosopher
Leonard Peikoff, “Responsible
parenthood involves decades devoted
to the child’s proper nurture. To
sentence a woman to bear a child
against her will is an unspeakable
violation of her rights: her right to

liberty (to the functions of her body),
her right to the pursuit of happiness,
and, sometimes, her right to life itself
[...] Such a sentence represents the
sacriﬁce of the actual to the potential,
of a real human being to a piece of
protoplasm, which has no life in the
human sense of the term. It is sheer
perversion of language for people who
demand this sacriﬁce to caH themselves
‘right-to-lifers. ’ ”

Pro—life activists also tend to
maintain that abortion induces
emotional trauma on a woman. Yet,
what could be more emotionally
traumatizing than looking into your son
or daughter’s eyes each and every day
and remembering the trauma of the
rape that caused the child to be
conceived? In addition, how would it
feel to be the child of parents who
neglect their parental duties, or who
express the fact that they never planned
on having you?

It seems foolish to inflict
unnecessary pain and suffering on
adults as well as children, especially
when there are so many neglected
children in this world already.
Consequently, the possibility of Post
Abortion Syndrome is not nearly as
severe as the guaranteed consequences
of forced childbirth. As far as adoption,
it is a very involved matter; the number
of uncared for children by far
outweighs the number of couples able
to adopt.

It is true that some women
engage in promiscuous activity and
then want to have an abortion. Yet,
what about women who are forced to
engage in sexual activity? Should a
woman who had hopes, dreams, and
plans for the future be punished for the
rest of her life because a man physically
took advantage of her? It would be
unjust to deny any woman her right to
choose because they each have their
own reasons and it is not our right to
judge whether or not their reasons are
valid according to our personal beliefs
system. What may be right for one
woman may not be right for another.
Yet, every woman should at least have
the option to decide what is right for
her. '

We will all agree that the First
Amendment to the Constitution secures
the right to freely practice religion.
Based on this, is it not fair for one
religious group who believe that life
starts at the moment of conception to
impose this view on another religious
group who believe that life begins at
birth or who believe in reincarnation.
In effect, it is unjust for the government
to literally forbid and outlaw a personal
choice, one that is a matter of
individual opinion and belief. I believe
that this highly infringes on religious
freedom and individual liberty.

To conclude, I leave you with an
anonymous quote to consider, “Of
course abortion isn’t right. But it is
even less right to bring unwanted
children into lifelong suffering and to
strip women of their choice. Making
abortion illegal is not the way to
prevent it. There is a much larger
picture that starts with much deeper
roots.”

“Thus, the pro-life argument is essentially
that we should deny the rights of an actual
human being for the sake of providing rights
to a potential human being.”

 

MG‘lDAY,JANJAHY 31 ,ZI5

“It didn’t completely ruin my summer,

but it did give me a lot of undue stress

both at home and at wor .”
-QUO'FEOFTHEWEEKPeerLa:sat17,moIssungrissmoorrorasImgnrn

bdohomeworkoversunnrervacalion

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 7

Rape still
a serious
problem

Bycaissaslialey

NT}-EIFKIS

No means no, but sometimes it’s
not enough. When I first started writing
this column, I hoped to make people
think, even if they came to the same
conclusions that they had before they
read the article. But no issue that I’ve
brought up before or that I will ever
bring up has been as important to me
as this one.

Last week, my sorority met with
President Burish, Dean Watkins, and
several representatives of the sorority’s
national organization to talk about
sexual abuse on campus. The meeting
was a question and answer format and
I was surprised at a lot of questions that
were asked. It has been repeated over
and over that there is no excuse for
sexual abuse of any nature, no matter
the circumstances. Whether or not
alcohol is involved, previous voluntary
sexual contact, and even marriage
between the victim and the assailant
give no justiﬁcation for rape or abuse.
No matter how many times we are told
that any kind of unwanted sexual
contact can be considered abuse and
that there is no way it can be warranted,
it still happens. The recent reports of
abuse here on campus clearly show that
Lee’s rule of every man acting like a
gentleman is not followed. Does honor
stop at the threshold of a bedroom? It
shouldn’t, but apparently it sometimes
does. I’m a member of both BRAVE
and KEWL, organizations which work
for the prevention of sexual abuse and
for the protection and rights of womerr
who have been abused. These are not
the only organizations with this mission
and I know many people who are
involved in working for this cause,
including many men. However, no
matter how hard we work, we can’t put
a total stop to abuse here on campus,
locally, nationally, and especially
world-wide. Ideologically, we want to
stop it, but realistically, there will
always be abuse of some form or
another.

The fact that there is always a
possibility of abuse should be in the
forefront of women’s minds. This
brings me back to the questions that
were asked during the information
session. Many women, in their
argument that the new alcohol policy
has created a situation where parties are
being held off-campus and out in the
country, pointed out the fact that they
feel more at danger now than before.
It may be true that the probability of
something bad happening ‘is greater
off-campus, but the important point is
that the probability is always there, no
matter how large or small. This means
that it is up to women to protect
themselves and not increase their risk
by entering into a dangerous situation.
If you feel like that party out in the
country is going to be the best party of
the year, but you know that you don’t
get cell phone reception or that there
might not be very many people there,
don’t go. If you can’t ﬁnd a buddy to
go with you who will stick by you
during the night, don’t go. You might
be missing out on a really great party,
but isn’t it worth it? Maybe it seems
like there’s a relatively small chance
of oneself individually being raped, but
do you want to risk an event that can
change your life forever just for a night
of drinking and hanging out with
friends? As I stated before, I seriously
doubt that there will be a place where
you have absolutely no chance of being
abused and I’m not encouraging you
to lock yourselves in your room every
night, but taking precautions goes a
long way towards preventing abuse.

You are all smart women and
know to stick with your friends and
sisters, to leave a party before it ends
so you aren’t the last one there, and to
call or find a security ofﬁcer if you ever
feel unsafe (you won’t be reported if
you are underage and have been
drinking). But when you think that a
party could be unsafe, even after you
have taken preventative measures, just
don’t go. It isn’t worth it.

Conservative concepts could save Social Security

Investment plan is the only viable solution for crisis of the pensioneers

BYWWHEVDIIWEV

$\E?ALLYS’EAKl\G

The beginning of a new year is
traditionally a time for resolutions,
promises of improvement, and decisions
to change old ways.

This same self-improvement
mentality is apparent in American politics,
with the latest hot potato issue, Social
Security reform.

There are several political factions
arguing for different solutions, including
private investment accounts, beneﬁt cuts,
tax increases, or some combination of the
three. Many others believe that the
government should just leave the issue
alone.

Social Security reform is
generally associated with conservatives
and has recently been identiﬁed as a top
priority of President George W. Bush‘s
second term. With collapse of the system

' predicted in thirteen years, there is little

time for partisan squabbling. Social

Security reform should not be a
Democratic or Republican issue-it is a
problem that transcends party lines and
affects all working Americans, and should
be treated as such.

Although technically the system
may be able to pay promised beneﬁts for
years to come (at least until 2018), taking
the approach of hiding our heads in the
sand is a mistake.

Many economists agree that

2018 is an overly pessimistic estimate for
the demise of Social Security and that the
program’s life span is in fact much longer.
This assertion is largely dependent

‘on the state of the economy. Higher wages,

as a result of an economic upswing, could
provide more funds for the program,
giving it a boost.

The problem with this optimistic
approach is that it is based on a rather
optimistic economic forecasts. As a result,
any unforeseen economic downturn could
destroy even the best-laid plans based on
this theory.

Not to mention that ignoring the

problem for a while, just because we can,
will not actually change the fact that Social
Security will run out eventually. Some
action must be taken now, not left for
future generations.

The question is, which course of
action is most appropriate? To sustain the
current system, we could increase payroll
taxes and decrease beneﬁts. While this
would be a secure way to ensure the
survival of the program, it is not the best.

By taking this approach, future
recipients of Social Security will receive
even less return on their money, making
the system increasingly less equitable to
future generations.

Another approach, while
deemed somewhat risky, is to allow
citizens to invest a portion of their Social
Security taxes in privately-owned
investment accounts.

One such plan is called the Model
2 Plan, which was proposed by the
Commission to Strengthen Social Security.

The Model 2 Plan would allow
private investment of a portion of one’s

Social Security taxes amounting to 4
percent of one’s taxable income. This

_ plan would stabilize the system by

2050, economists predict.

It is possible that one could end
up with slightly less money with the
Model 2 Plan than with the current
system. However, it is more likely that
taxpayers would get a much better
return on their contributions (the
average person born in 2000 will only
earn 0.86 percent return).

Though some politicians fear
this plan would subject taxpayers to the
rise and fall of the market, it would
solve the major problems with the
current Social Security system.

Most importantly, it would keep
the system aﬂoat and would prevent it
from dipping into its surplus (which is
currently being used by other
government programs).

Furthermore, it would put some
of the taxpayers’ money back into the
control of the taxpayer, instead of the
government.

LETTERSTO THE EDITOR

Reader decries lack of cystic ﬁbrosis ball coverage by the Phi

Dear Editor, '

Congratulations on your new design
for the Phi. I enjoyed perusing it; I turned
each page expectantly, impressed with the
fine color photography and artwork. But
as I came upon the last page, my heart
sunk. Not once was last Saturday’s Cystic
Fibrosis Charity BaH mentioned. There
were no photographs.

Not even one iota of text was
devoted to an event attended by at least

one hundred students, an event which
featured Burr Datz and his band of W&L
alumni, or an event which raised over
$3000 for a charitable cause. Senior Jon
Leﬂer poured out his heart and soul to put
on an elegant ball and to raise money for
Cystic Fibrosis.

To ignore such a signiﬁcant event
in the W&L community is somewhat
insulting, and is certainly disheartening for
those who volunteered and selflessly
sacriﬁced their time for sake of charity.

Pro—life article sheds

Dear Editor, p

In the January 24"‘ edition of the
Ring Tum Phi an editorial was published
by Theresa Dougherty that left me cold,
unsettled, and ultimately very
disappointed. Abortion is such a polarized
issue in our country that I have little faith
anything I could possibly say might
penetrate her ideological defenses, if she
even bothers to read this, but getting some
of these thoughts down on paper will at
least be somewhat cathartic for me.

First, it saddened me to see the
words of Thomas Jefferson, one of our
country’s greatest men, bandied about
attached involuntarily and out of context
to a debate that has devolved into nothing
better than a national shouting match. It
is indeed convenient to prominently drop
the name of a founding father to bolster
your cause, but Ms. Dougherty, I can
hardly visualize Jefferson the Colonial
clad all in black attempting to bomb an
abortion clinic or taking careful aim with
a high-powered riﬂe at a doctor and a
patient in a parking lot.

Wait, I’m sorry, that wasn’t really
fair was it? Well, while we're on the
subject of fairness in constructing a logical
argument, please allow me to quote you:
“I do not know what it is like to be raped,
but I would guess that the emotional
trauma of the actual rape followed by the
decision to have an abortion could only
inﬂict further  harm on the woman.”
You may guess a lot of things on any given
day, will it snow today, will my professor
give us a pop quiz, will the srat lunch suck
again, but to “guess” about the physical

Offensive Quick

Dear Editor,

I write today ﬁrst to applaud your
attempt to bring the Phi to a new level of
journalistic integrity through last week’s
much—improved layout and the enhanced
contributions of your writing staff.

Unfortunately, I also write today to
express a deep disappointment. In last
week’s series of “Quick Hits” I was
surprised, if not shocked, to read the
following submission:

“I ﬁgured it out —- Tom Burish is just
Adam Hutchinson's puppet for tuning this
school as gay as Williams or Amherst or
wherever he went.”

Not only does this submission
contain an offensive colloquialism, it
reveals the author to be rather misinformed.

and emotional damage a rape victim
suffers is both naive and pathetic. I am a
man, therefore the odds that I myself will
be raped in my lifetime are rniniscule at
best, but I bear the burden of being part of
the gender that overwhelmingly plays the
role of rapist.

On a daily basis I am reminded of
this fact, of my guilt by association, and
yet your statement leads me to believe that
despite the best educational efforts of
hundreds of women’s groups throughout
the country and around the world, and
even here on campus, you have somehow
managed to completely miss or shut
yourself away from the horrible realities
of rape itself. It is a disgusting, barbaric
act that leaves the victim physically hurt,
psychologically shattered, and perhaps
most frustratingly — oftentimes deeply
ashamed about a situation in which they
were the victim.

Perhaps you feel that by letting the
reader know you “have at least one person
in your life conceived through rape” you
somehow become invulnerable to dissent
on this topic. Forget it. Allow me to
propose another possible outcome of the
above situation: what if the victim, to her
horror, learns that she is pregnant with the
child of her attacker?

What if she cannot bring herself to
overcome the psychological link between
this fetus and the act during which she was
so terribly violated? Worse yet, what if this
child grows to closely visually resemble
its mother’s attacker? Must this woman
be forced to relive that horriﬁc moment
every day for the rest of her life every time

Hit criticized

In the literal sense of the word, neither
Williams nor Amherst is any gayer than
Washington and Lee. Trust me, if they
were, I’d be a Purple Cow (Williams) or a
Lord Jeff (Amherst) instead of a General.
Overall, I don’t believe the submission to
be intentionally offensive, largely because
the term “gay” is unfortunately used so
commonly in a derogatory way. However,
that should not keep you, the editors, from
judiciously screening submissions in order
to maintain the “journalistic integrity,
dignity, and respect” touted on your front
page. Your choice to retain and print this
submission exposes either your temporary
lapse in judgment or your ignorance and
prejudice. I’m hope it is the former.
Steve Martinenza ‘05

I realize that your recent re design
was a time consuming and arduous
process, but I do not think it unreasonable
to ask for at least some mention of
Saturday’s Ball. With all luck and hope,
we will be holding the ball next year, and
a story, a picture, or even a blurb however
small would have been welcome
publicity for next year’s event.

No one worked for recognition, we
all worked to beneﬁt CF research, and an
article showing the rest of the W&L what

an exciting and fun event the ball was,
would, I could only have hoped, helped
with next year’s fund raising. Please
consider providing some coverage in next
week’s edition and next year, both before,
and most certainly after, the ball.

Sincerely,

J arnes Heidbreder

little light on subject

she sees this poor bastard child simply
because YOU think she should?

Lest I begin bore you with my
silly remarks, let us examine only one
more possibility. One keystone issue of the
Pro-choice side of the debate was
conspicuously missing from your article,
that of ectopic pregnancies. Perhaps, like
your apparent misunderstanding of the
severity of rape, you aren’t quite up to date
on your understanding of the subject.

Please allow me to educate you. An
ectopic pregnancy occurs when the ovum
implants somewhere besides the
endometrial lining of the uterus. This
happens most often in the Fallopian tubes,
but it can also occur elsewhere. To cut to
the chase, if the fetus is allowed to be
carried to term the end result is almost
certain death for the mother and generally
the fetus as well.

The most common and effective
treatment is removal of the pregnancy, a
very early term abortion, but a form of
abortion nonetheless. A total ban on
abortion might help you sleep better at
night, but it would be signing the death
sentence of 1 out of every 4000 mothers-
to-be in this country. This brings me to the
point of my entire response.

The rights granted by the Roe v.
Wade decision are not about the callous
use of abortion in place of safe sex, tl1ey’re
not about a mother’s relieved ending of
her fetus’ life because it appears to have a
cleft palate or Down’s Syndrome, they’re
about guaranteeing the safety of the
minority against the views of the majority,
and they’re about moderation.

Dear Editor,

I LOVED the article in your
most recent issue about women
needing to know their place. I laughed
SO hard I started crying.

It was probably the funniest part
of my week and I plan to hang it on my
wall where I can read it whenever I
need a laugh.

I want to compliment you all for
being able to see the humor in a satire
like that and not taking it in a serious
manner.

It is my opinion that anyone who
would take offense at a high schooler’s

There are Pro-choice activists who
would like all abortion restrictions lifted,
who would like the ability to receive an
abortion under any circumstances at any
time in the pregnancy, and there are just
as many if not more Pro—life activists who
would like any and all forms of abortion
banned ﬂat out.

This might come as a shock to you,
but neither of these positions is the answer.
From the tone of your article I, the reader,
sense that you are one of the “Pro—life at
all costs” people, and I pray that never in
your life will you be faced with your
obstetrician telling you that you have an
ectopic pregnancy or that you never have
to deal with the absolute horror of rape
and the second numbing shock of being
told you carry your attacker’s child.

The choice of having an abortion is
a deeply personal decision, perhaps the
most personal one a woman could ever be
asked to make. The laws are in place to
ensure that each woman is able to make
that decision on her own, safe from the
idealistic shouts and demands of a person
who carmot, simply cannot, possibly know
the true weight crushing down upon that
poor woman’s shoulders.

Sincerely,

Drew Heath, ‘05

Reader delights in
recent Phi parody piece

joke like that is very insecure on their
position of women’s rights and I think
it is awesome that you saw it for the
comedic work that is was.

Thank you so much for
brightening my week so much and I can
only hope that those who were
offended by such a silly article
eventually acquire a funny bone.

Sincerely,

Brooke Sanden ‘O6

 

8 0 THERNG-TLIVIPHI

 

word

 

MGDAY,JAMJAHY 31 ,2[X5

H

 

f\

Due to concerns
regarding'an offensive
Quick Hit this past week,
we are taking a week off
and revising this section.
“Quick Hits, ” in its
current form, is dead. The
concept of an anonymous
forum is very much alive.
To preserve
anonymous forum that
Quick Hits provided we
will now pose a topic each
weekand allow students to
respond by replying to
phi @wlu.edu.
These responses will
be anonymous,'as were
QuickHits. We are posing

the A

topics in order to direct
campus dialogue
surrounding interesting
and important campus
life issues. Respond
however you want:
honestly, humorously, or
seriously. We want to
ensure students have a
place where they feel
comfortable expressing
their honest opinions
about campus life.

TtI'sweek’s1opic:
Alooholpolicy
enforcement, 2
monlhslater.

Voting

is

really trashy

The Fisherman gives his take on
personal responsibility at W&L

Bynughrmui

ll-EFS‘E:MPN

No really, it is. But beyond just
voting, caring about large scale events in
general is for suckers. Elections? Lame.
Trying to work towards goals? Too much
effort. Having beliefs that you care about?
Yeah, and you probably also think helping
poor people out is good too. Loser.
Apathy is way too underrated, primarily
because those who don’t care, don’t care
enough to stick up for what is important
and paramount in their lives: the principle
that at the end of the day, screw it.

Well, I am here to speak up for these
voiceless people. So, let me outline a few
fundamental principles that must be
understood. First, if it doesn’t directly
beneﬁt you or just feel good in the next
ﬁve minutes, let someone else handle it.
This includes any sort of community
service, striving to make a change in the
world and paying taxes. How do you think
I look so hot all the time in my trendy
clothes? By paying taxes? No way man,
Ikeep it real. Also, the rule about stopping

. for red lights is much more ‘lax in our

world. It’s not so much that I have hit
three people, as they hit me and my car.
While some may call that a hit and run
and a felony, I call it being polite enough
not to make a big deal out of a broken
headlight and bloodstains on my
windshield. My benevolence knows no
bounds. And seeing how that little girl
was in a wheel chair, I much prefer to think
of that one more as a car crash than hitting
a normal person on foot.

But The Fisherman isn’t the only
good looking, well-known person who
understands that responsibility and
participation blow, there are others. For
instance, professional football player
Ricky Williams finally came to the
realization that instead of spending the
time and energy playing football, he could
instead just sit back and enjoy his hobbies

while letting others put in the effort.
Way to go, Ricky. Also, pretty much
any NBA player displays a thorough
understanding that while some kids
may look up to them as role models,
that really shouldn’t stop them from
committing crimes and not bothering
to play in the Olympics. After all, who
cares about the Olympics anyway?

And for my personal favorite,
Paris Hilton has managed to turn not
doing anything and only seeking
pleasure into a very lucrative career. I
was thinking about asking her to Fancy
Dress, but then again, I don’t want to
put in the effort of the phone call, and
I’m sure she is busy making money by
looking down on poor people and
having it ﬁlmed.

I bet you’re thinking that I must
be failing out of school with this
attitude. Well, since you probably still
think your “live strong” bracelet is cool,
I’l1 fill you in on what’s up. Not doing
well in school is very in style these days.
Failing is the new passing. Know what
else is in style? Kids who vomit in the
bathroom but miss the toilet.
Remember, at the end of the day it’s
not you that has to clean it up, which
means there is no reason to care about
it. So be creative in where you puke.
Just the other day I puked on someone’s
cat.

In conclusion, get some class and
learn not to bother yourself with trivial
things that small-minded people have
convinced you ‘are important. Don’t
vote, give to charity, be employed, help
the needy or participate in any way that
might lead to something. Sit back and
let the other people worry about that.
After all, you‘re now one of the elites,
everyone else is just here for your
entertainment. Tune in next week when
I explain the source of all evil: orphans.
I mean really, what’s with them

anyway?

So be creative in where you puke. Just the
other day I puked on someone ’s cat.

 

What would Bobby Lee do?

Bymashalnue
FUTATOMPN

Everyday college students are faced
with difficult choices. Should I cut off
the mold on the pizza before eating it, or
should I just eat it as is? Problems like
this are encountered every day by young,
hormone—driven college students. Luckily
for Washington and Lee students, we have
a role model to look up to.

Whenever a student here has a
problem, they just think WWRELD.
That’s right, what would Robert E. Lee
do? I know that many of you are skeptical
of the idea that you can still have fun while
listening to Bobby Lee; after all, he is the
man who started that whole honor thing.

But Mr. Lee didn-’t always color
inside the lines. Many times he didn’t even
color at all. Instead he was out getting
drunk.

What was his favorite drink you
ask? Mike’s Hard Lemonade. He drank
that stuff up. Once Abraham Lincoln
called him a sissy for drinking it at a frat
party. Robert E. Lee was so pissed that he
started the Civil War over it.

As you can see Mr. Lee was a
normal man just like you or me. He had
his ﬂaws, and compensated for those ﬂaws
by fighting for the south just to piss Abe
“goody-two-shoes’,’ Lincoln off.

And it worked for Bobby. He has a

Once Abraham Lincoln called him a sissy for
drinking [Mike’s Hard] at a frat party. Robert
E. Lee was so pissed that he started the Civil

War over it.

whole region that considers him a small
step above God.

This is why we should incorporate
Robert E’s lifestyle into our own. For
instance, when you have to decide whether
or not to pull the trigger after a long night
of drinking, just ask yourself WWRELD?
I’ll tell you what Robert E. Lee would do.
Robert E. Lee would pull that trigger; pull
that trigger all over that kid from New
Jersey. Darrin Yankee.

Are you a freshman guy right now?
If the answer is yes, you should listen to
Robert E. Lee. Were you thinking about
going to the hazing website? Were you
thinking about rolling over on your best
friends? Ask yourself WWRELD? Do
you think Bobby never went through a
little hazing? You may have had to clean
the kitchen, but Mr. Lee had to do

something involving a 9 iron, a gallon of

ketchup, and a four dollar hooker. An
you thought you had it bad. ‘

The next time you wake up to a
woman twice your size in your own bed
and don’t know how to act, just ask
yourself WWRELD? Robert E. Lee would
do the same thing you want to do... run
like hell and don’t look back. You should
have seen the first time Robert E. Lee
hooked up with Susan B. Anthony. He
was halfway to Atlanta before he stopped
to rest. After you get out of town, stay out
of town, then move to a remote town in
the Shenandoah Valley to be president of
a college.

Let’s be honest Mr. Lee didn’t come
to W&L (at the time it was simply called
W&) to teach, he came to hide from the
nympho monster named Susan'B.

So next time you are trying to make
the decision between getting drunk and
going to class, do what Robert E. Lee
would do... get drunk before going to
class, after all attendance is 5% of your
grade.

Mono equa s root of a evil

ByKrist'neEa1y

lVlJ(Af\DO£ESEGlFL

So, contrary to last week’s article,
coffee isn’t enough to keep this northern
gal alive and kickin’. A few days before
the January 24th issue of the Phi hit the
stands I was diagnosed with. . ..drum roll,
please... strep throat and mono.
Starbucks, you know I love and respect
you, but not even a vaunted venti espresso
macchiatto with skim milk can help me
now.

Looking back, I should have known
something was wrong long before I made
an appointment at the health center. Two
days in a row I was under the covers by
8:30 p.m. And by now you should realize
that this girl doesn’t exactly subscribe to
the “early to bed, early to rise” philosophy-
especially on Wednesday nights. Maybe
the sore throat should have been a clue,
too. Of course, pride is a hard thing to
swallow.

They say that money is the root of
all evil. Drop the “ey” and add “o,” and I
might just agree with the ever elusive but
clearly wise “they.” Mono is a cruel, cruel
disease, trying even the most patient
individual.

Let’s put this “mono” thing into
context. The zenith of my weekend was
eating a bowl of Rocky Road ice cream.
Now, don’t get me wrong. Rocky Road
ice cream is amazing. Scratch that.
AMAZING Which is why I went back for
a second bowl. And a third. Yes, I am the
only person on the entire face of the earth

who could manage to gain two pounds
immediately after coming down with
mono. What can I say? I’m just that
“special.”

But maybe I am being a bit too
dramatic. Maybe my weekend wasn’t that
bad. After all, in addition to sitting around
eating ice cream, I did get to catch up on
pop culture. Yes, I sure did.

I don’t have cable in my room, so I
watched eighteen consecutive episodes of
Sex and the City. And it was good.
However, not even nine hours of awkward
sexual situations and off—the—wall fashion
managed to make me any stronger. I was
left with no choice but to check into the
infirmary.

The nurses that work at the
infirmary are wonderful, wonderful
people. They did everything they could to
make sure I was cornfoitable— bringing me
blankets and hot meals and snacks and
checking up on me often to make sure I
was doing okay. However, as you can
imagine, the infirmary is not an exciting
place. Thus, once again, I relied on the TV
for amusement. It had been quite awhile
since I’d seen “Full House,” “The Nanny,”
“Golden Girls,” “Family Ties” and “Step
by Step.” I don’t know how I managed so
long without the Uncle Jesse, Fran
Drescher and Steve Erkel. Tell me: how
did I manage?

Of course, my saving grace was
Lifetime. It is, after all, the “network for
women,” and I clearly possess XY genes.
Lifetirne’s schedule is chalk-full of such
gems as “Too Young to Be a Dad,” a made-

for-television movie about a fifteen year-
old fatlrer-to-be featuring such “stars” as
Kathy Baker, Bruce Davison and Paul
Franklin Darmo. I don’t want to give the
plot away. Suffice it to say, it’s a real
tearjerker. And then there was “Dangerous
Son.” Blood, sweat, tears... I was
clutching my hospital sheet in suspense.
Thanks to Lifetime I also learned about
the baby black market. Who said TV is a
waste of time?

Ice cream, “Golden Girls,”
Lifetime... As you can see, I’m living the
highlife. Let’s compare weekends. While
you were braving the cold to make it from
Pi Phi to Windfall, I was bundled up under
a down comforter watching high quality-
viewing material. While you were
chugging down a third Natty Light in an
attempt to impress the boys, I was classily
sipping good ole’ chicken noodle soup.
And while you were trying to fend off that
clumsy dancer, I was dreaming of Patrick
Swayze.

Okay, maybe I’m pushing it. But
I’m an optirriist. You have to be to survive
the Midwest for upwards of eighteen
years.

Have no fear, dear readers. Your
Milk and Cheese Girl will be back and
with a vengeance. It may be a month or
two before I’m on the scene again, but
“nobody puts [this] baby in the comer.”

On a side note, I am not a leper. You
will not catch mono by sitting next to me.
Unless I spit on you. But, on my honor, I
promise not to engage in such a nefarious
activity.

How to spot a Keydet in good old Lex

Due to
popular demand (or
an extreme case of
boredom on my
part), your favorite
grey-clad writer is
back in the saddle
one week earlier

' ' . than expected.
JonathanProctor Without further
THEGUY”EXlDOOR ado, away we go...

T h o u g h

normally one can spot a Keydet from a
mile away, occasionally when wearing our
blazer and Ronald McDonald tie or
sneaking uptown in (spitting noise)
civilian attire, we may manage to blend in
(especially when the eye of the beholder

is glassy and dilated). Therefore I thought ’

that I would offer some helpful hints as to
how one may identify said Keydets on a
glorious, Lex-tastic weekend.

If one is at the Palms, then
recognizing a Veemie is a rudimentary
task. All you have to do is find the guy
that is treated with disdain by the staff,
talks/shouts way too loudly and stares
down every Minkette as if he were the lion

[a Keydet] stares down every Minkette as if he
were the lion and she the gazelle

and she the gazelle. Upon exiting the I

establishment, he will more than likely
stumble on the disproportionate stairs
(which should really be fixed), where he
will then be arrested for being drunk in
public (do not scoff, dear readers, for it
has happened on more than one occasion).
After spending a night with Rockbridge
County’s finest, he will then get in trouble
upon returning to Post and spend the next
few months on conf1nement(a.k.a. “time-
out”).

When at the Mirage, the best place
to ﬁnd a Keydet would be to look at the
dance ﬂoor for one of two possible
situations: (a) a group of eight to twelve
virile young men dancing a bit too closely
together, belting out the chorus of
“November Rain” with a bit too much
zeal, or (b) a lone couple re—enacting
scenes from our favorite episode of “The
Grind”, the male in his early twenties and

the female in her early forties (fresh off of
the Wal—Mart night shift). These are the
things that happen when your living
conditions would rate as the third—lowest
among the nation’s prisons and you envy
the love life of a three—toed sloth.

Remember, when one encounters a
Keydet outside of his natural habitat, one
should not be meek due to our lack of
social graces. I assure you that we are
indeed some of the most well-mannered
people that you will ever come across, but
on those nights when we attempt to drown
our Pain and Sorrow (that’s right. . .capital
P, capital S; it is, in fact, that bad), it would
be prudent to leave well enough alone.
Otherwise, we are always looking for a
good time, ladies and gentlemen, so feel
free to say hello or even to buy us a round,
or ﬁve. Until next time, neighbors, keep
on truckin’...

