   

j V
/

 THE RING=TUM PI-II.

‘*4

rm :-
. 37 6.755
A552.

V-I47
llC~23

C2.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

2.5

/07

M(NDAY,MARCH7,ZI5

BY THE STUDENTS AND

FDR THE STUDENTS SINCE

1897

VOLllIlIECVI,MlVIBE?22

WHAT’S INSIDE

5 The envelope please...

And now, the moment we’ve all been
waiting for... the Fancy Dress theme
revealed on page 2.

Friday night fights

Eight bands faced off on Friday night
with a thousand bucks at stake.
Check out page 4 for a rundown on
who rocked and who did not.

 

HOTTICKET

The British are coming
Everyone’s favorite British dame
returns in the zany “Bridget Jones:
Edge of Reason,” which will be
playing in the Commons Theater on
Mon., March 7, at 7:00 p.m., and
Tues., March 8 through Fri., March
11, at 9:30 p.m.

Back by popular demand

“J acob’s Ladder” returns to the stage
to bring back the bluegrass music I
that secured their Battle of the Bands
victory last Friday. The band will

play at Jordan House on March ll at
8:00 p.m. ‘
Secret garden

Zach Braff’s trippy “Garderi~State” /
runs in the Commons Theater ‘at 7:30/
p.m. on Fri., March 11, and on Sat.,
March 12. Admission is free, but
contributions are welcome.

 

SIMPLE LIFE

Feng—Shui your Room

Create a peaceful place to escape
from the everyday stresses of life.
Though these are small steps, in
doing them, you will be inches closer
to reaching the Tao of W&L.

I Try some green: A bamboo
plant brings prosperity and grows
neatly in a glass bowl with water and
marbles.

I Don’t cut comers: According to
the Feng—Shui belief, this leaves
room for bad spirits in your space.

I Let in the light: Try to open
your blinds and let the sun shine in
for at least a few hours each day.
Also, try hanging a crystal in each
window. This helps dispel evil
before it can enter the room.

A creative study space can help you
improve your grades. Remember,
everything’s better when everything’s
zen

QUICK POLL

Q: Have you engaged -
in premarital sex at any time,
including any time prior to
your coming to W&L?

Man:

 

72 students polled, 36 male. 36 female. Poll has 95% confidence
in a +/- 5% margin ol error.

W&L tojump on sate ite bandwagon

By Chris Lauderman M
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF /'

Consideration of a Was ington,
D.C. satellite campus that will provide
W&L with a physical presence in the
nation’s capital, increasing the school’s
visibility, somewhere in the next two to
ten years, was announced in the strategic
plan. I
I The administration selected
Washington because of the critical mass
of W&L people in the city, its international
position, and its interdisciplinary nature.
Students can be exposed to many elements
such as policy, art, and science.

Both the city and northern Virginia
suburbs are being considered for the
location. Joe Grasso, Vice President for
Administration, sees the program starting
as a pilot program where we lease a space.

But Provost Thomas Williams said
that is not the only option. Buying a
building in DC, where real estate is
booming, might be a better investment for
the University than stocks or other
investments.

The site would have an on-site
director. An idea is to have room for
approximately 30 student residences and
two to three efficiency apartments for
faculty, alumni, and guests.

One key question is whether the

university can create a curriculum for
students to be at the DC center for as long
as a full semester. Williams said his
immediate vision for the center is not one

where students would spend a semester,‘

but that is a possibility down the road.

The Law School has the most
expansive plan for utilizing the DC center
at this time. In fact, the idea of a satellite
campus came up six years ago in a separate
law school plan. The initial idea is to give
students the chance to take specialized
courses and have internships in a
metropolitan area, not unlike Cornell Law
School and others. Law School Dean
David Partlett said that the DC center gives
W&L a chance to expand its curriculum
in the areas of administrative and
constitutional law.

According to Williams, potential
uses by the undergraduates at the DC
center include the journalism department
allowing students to intern for six credits.
Three credits would be given from a
journalism professor teaching in a
classroom and three credits would be
given by a newspaper such as the
Washington Post. V

Teacher education students, because
of W&L’s location, cannot do a practicum
or student teaching in a private school.
The DC center would give students
achieving their education certificate a
place to stay and teach in an urban district.

Currently, the Washington Term
program uses classrooms in another
university’s D.C. -center. A Washington
center would give the department
classroom space and a place for students
to stay while interning in the spring.
Shepherd students would also have the
opportunity to live in the center while they
worked in their summer placements.

University of California, Stanford,
William and Mary, Amherst, Boston
University, and others all have a satellite
campus in the DC area. Grasso and
Williams both said that there are many
models on which to build the program in
DC.

According to the administration,
having a satellite campus is becoming
more and more common, especially for a
school in a rural area.

“It is not unusual anymore for a
school of our quality,” Grasso said.

This proposal, like all others in the
strategic plan, is not set in stone.

“This should be widely discussed
and carefully considered,” Grasso said.

Despite the fact that it is not yet
permanent, the DC center is a high
academic priority for the school.

“DC is not just the center of
govemment,” said Larry Peppers, Dean of
the Williams School. “We see it as a

‘resource we can tap into regardless of

discipline.”

WANTED: Student input

The administration made
clear in a press conference held last I
week that student input is wanted
in the strategic pianning process. _
Students have several
different options to express their
views to the administration. There
is__a drop‘ box oirlineat http://
strategicpl‘an.wlu.edu.‘ This student '
forum has already been used by
about aidozen students and the
I information has been taken in by the
administration.
If there is student interest,
more open forums can be held to
discuss the different task force
‘reports. In the preliminary stages
of planning, however, students did ‘
not take advantage of this option.
A third option is to e-mail
Provost Williams directly.

‘ “Students should, indeed,
take this information, seriously,”
Williams said earlier in an interview .
with the Phi. “We want to know
student views on all these proposals,

' and want as well to have original
ideas from the student body.”
—- Chris Lauderman

Phi Beta
Kappa honors
new members

By Katherine Shell
ASSISTANT N/IEWS EDITOR
/

Phi/Beta Kappa welcomed 44
new members into its chapter in
Thursday’s Lee Chapel ceremony.
Robert Wilson ’73, the editor of Phi
Beta Kappa’s The American Scholar,
was honored as the speaker for this
induction.

The scholars are selected for
their “dedication to education and
involvement in support of [W&L’s]
liberal arts mission,” said Brian
Richardson, head of journalism
department, in his welcome speech.
The society was chartered on W&L’s
campus in 1911 in recognition of
excellent scholarship on campus.

Richardson also said that these
students promote W&L’s ideals of
excellence and scholarship, and give
the “assurance that reputation will
endure.”

Three students were honored in
abstentia from the class of 2004: Ellen
Carothers, Jackie Green, and Jaime
Muscar.

Twenty-two seniors were added
to represent the class of 2005 in Phi
Beta Kappa: Sarah Berhalter, Kristen
Brown, Hans Carlson, Derek Colla,
Laura FarreH, Wﬂham Fox, Courtenay
Glisson, Edward Irby, Tiffany Jenkins,
Wesley Kimmel, Christopher Lee,
Chia-I Lu, Elizabeth Murphy, Tom
Pickering, Anne Rochfort, Kim
Sanford, Kiersten Schmidt, Norman
Senior, Liz Tessier, Timothy Waddell,
Katie Wall, and Emily Wolfmg. One
senior was absent on a job interview,
and one graduated in December. Four
seniors who were elected last year, but
were abroad during the Convocation,
were honored this year: Wesley Bell,
Richard Busby, Peter Djalaliev, and
Kelley Magill.

Twenty-three juniors were also
elected: Ligia Medina, Vanessa Amess,
Halin Bareke, Melissa Clarke,
Jonathan Cochran, Elizabeth Davis,
Jessica Good, Stephanie Hannon,
Courtney Harrison, Amanda Hughes,
William Huntington, Adam Jarczyk,
Angela Kim, Matthew Layton, Nikita
Liarnzine, Amy McCarnphill, Matthew
Null, Christie Palazzolo, Jon Philipson,
Lee Rasamny, Benjamin Skrodzki,
Elizabeth Twentyman, and Emily
White. Several were studying abroad
during convocation and will be
honored during next year’s ceremony.

Sergey Kvasnyuk was given the
Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore Award,
given to the sophomore with the
highest academic average during the V
first four terms at W&L.

Wilson was inducted as an
honorary member and spoke to

congratulate the new members.

Catron and fellow models learn the proper stance the night before the show.

    

EMIL HULEN / STAFF PHOTOGRAP Fl

Beautiful inside and out

By Katherine Greene
STAFF WRITER

It takes a special kind of woman to
turn her own personal suffering into a
successful foundation to help others.

Heather Owens, an abuse victim, is
the founder of Beauty Revue Against
Violent Encounters (BRAVE), which held
its premiere events at the sorority houses
and Evans Hall this Saturday.

“We decided we needed to make a
difference,” said Owens, “and our goal is
to raise awareness, not just money.”

Owens got started on this mission
a year ago, after years of hearing the heart-
wrenching stories of her clientele at A
Positive Image Spa, her business on Main
Street.

“Over 75% of the women coming
into my spa had [abuse] stories they were
willing to share,” Owens said, “It’s
overwhehning how many of these women
there are.”

Lindsey Duran, ’06 Law, helped to
organize the BRAVE events this weekend,
including the Day of Beauty and the
Fashion Show. She said, “In [Owens’s]
line of work, she has seen a lot of abused
women...it just ran the gamut of people
in bad situations.”

Owens, a former makeup artist
from New York City, says that women
don’t just come to her to feel relaxed.
“They come to feel better about
themselves,” she said, “because their self-
esteem has been destroyed.”

“People had no place to turn,” said
Owens, who accuses both the community
and authorities in Lexington of denying
the problem and refusing to help victims

 

 

EMILY HULEN  STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER
Above: Owens gives a local woman
a make-over at the Theta house on
Saturday. Below: Khady Mbaye,
‘O5, struts the runway.

SAHAR KAMALI / STAF PHOTOGRAPHER

 
   

of domestic abuse. “These women are
unable to stand up comfortably and not
feel ashamed. . .the abuser should be made
to feel ashamed, and the law in this town
won’t help.”

The Day of Beauty event took place
at the sorority houses, a location which
was chosen for its convenient proximity
to both campus and so many women.

Fitness classes, including a basic
self-defense course, were held in the
Kappa Kappa Gamma house and a silent
auction of donated gift baskets was held
at Kappa Delta. Both Kappa Alpha Theta
and Pi Beta Phi hosted local aestheticians
including Owens herself as they gave
massages, manicures, and makeup lessons.

The fashion show, held later in the
evening, featured items donated or
borrowed from several boutiques in
Lexington, as well as some in
Charlottesville and Staunton.

Bethany Catron, ’O5, participated in
the fashion show as a model. “[Heather]
has a lot of experience,” she said, “and
she makes us feel a lot better about [being
in front of everyone].”

Owens said, “This has become a
turning point in my life,” of the events on
Saturday. “W&L has been such a great
help to my cause, in a community that has
the attitude that abuse doesn’t happen
here.”

Launching BRAVE to a national
level is Owens’s next course of action.
She is slated to attend conferences in
Philadelphia and Las Vegas in the coming
months, ready to tell her story, and the
stories of the women she has tried to help.

Heather Owens may be the kind of
woman it takes to make it happen.

 

 

 

 

was (3. LEYBURN t.lul-om A
VASHINGTON & LEE umvansm
LE.‘(ti\§f3.TOz‘\l. VA 24450

2 -THERING-TUMPHI HA? 1 6 2005

 

THE WORKING POOR

David Shipler, Pulitzer-prize winning journalist and Washington and Lee University Woodrow Wilson Fellow,

' addressed the University Community Thursday, March 3, in Lee Chapel and is pictured with Professor Harlan

Beckley. He spoke on his latest book, The Working Poor: Invisible in America. Following his speech, he
signed books at the University bookstore. Shipler addressed several classes while he was on campus, ranging
from journalism to economics. He also ate every breakfast, lunch and dinnervvith students inthe Marketplace.

 

98th Fancy Dress Ball theme revealed

Chairs unveil “In the Shadow of the Sphinx’? theme

ByErinJulius
EDlTO3HN-CHIEF

Washington and Lee’s 98”‘
annual Fancy Dress Ball, themed “In the
Shadow of the Sphinx,” will be held
March 19 in the Warner Center. Johnny
White and the Elite Band will perform in
Doremus gym, with a DJ as entertainment

 
   

 

  

Standard
features i§IE.Ai%L;l§FE::;

 

in the smaller gym.

Johnny White and the Elite Band is
a 10—piece show and dance band known
for its Motown medleys.

The Fancy Dress Committee, co-
chaired by Amanda Jones and Catherine
Turner, revealed the “In the Shadow of the
Sphinx” theme last night.

The ball is scheduled for 9 p.m. — 1

x

*s‘st.:;r§e s§:aris’esi. sargaggea,  gag; $g;:g§§..§=‘:,r'§;Iz,E*  set}. ﬁmla. s:rs:§§%%iars.:.sr2j serge serxsg.

  

.3, life: .§::.‘+ §i’°:i:ra“§

a.m. Ticket’ prices for this year’s ball are
$35 per person, $40 at the door. This
year’s memorabilia package, which
includes a ticket, t-shirt, shot glass, poster,
playbill and cups costs $50.

This year’s Fancy Dress was
scheduled later than normal in an effort to

accommodate law students, who are
currently on spring break.

Sciurs “Pars trlcs” purrhase amrienra
............................... r. means its baggie, tie hassle.

 

 3’  1:: .«

13-?‘
4
§”"\

) .;..llsl

 

éaiieéati vfééaevs»-as E33 stares ‘rain sis: seaaksrs, imiudéng tea:
ta"asi;srs and ﬁrs»-::.~=.a.'t§ Eeaasd ifiraatassisg:    cassette and ZEN
gs-sagas  i%i"i§§~»§s.'srL:,i~:? erases 9‘ Fraser a;i:r:eesr's,  %§r3r.:.:lts, and
arstséafa as-.rrers 3 Mess’, tz==,.,BEE-:asi§;as- Faaaertrsia: a¢a:rran%’%g*

 

 

Gender Relations 

Committe forms

Group aims to educate campus on
what constitutes sexual assault

ByKalherineShell
A§STN\lTl\EV\ISE|JTO?

The newly-formed Gender
Relations Committee held an
organizational meeting last Tuesday to
open itself to student involvement. The
GRC intends to “coordinate the
educational and preventative efforts of
various campus groups currently dealing
with sexual misconduct,” according to the
W&L News Office.

According to committee member
Mary Jacob Rankin ’O5, a major purpose
of the group is to form “education and
even ground for everyone on campus what
is consent, what is sexual assault.”

Dean of Students Dawn Watkins
and President Thomas Burish asked the
Panhellenic Council and the Inter-
Fraternity Council to address the issue of
sexual misconduct. As such, the
committee is made of students from
fraternities and sororities, most of whom
have held positions within their own
affiliation, Panhel or IFC. The group will
be a “permanent group allying faculty,
staff, and students,” said member Susan
Somers ’05.

However, students who are not
Greek-affiliated should not feel as though
they cannot be a part of this committee.
“This group should bridge and extend to
all areas of life,” not just Greek life,
Rankin said.

One goal of the GRC is to form
“action teams to deal with specific
challenges,” Somers said. These
subgroups, based on various aspects of
gender relations on campus, include
Activities and Gender Interactions, Male
and Female Outreach Curriculum,

     

Academic Curriculum Infusion and
Judicial Review. Activities and Gender
Interactions, led by Somers, would seek
to promote social activities that are not
alcohol—based.

The student organization One in
Four is a starting point for the Male and
Female Outreach Curriculum, headed by
John Gaffney ‘O6. During the past few
weeks, One in Four has been traveling to
every fraternity on campus to educate other
men about sexual assault. As of now, they
plan to be part of Freshmen Orientation
next fall.

Curriculum Infusion Education
would seek to “organize ways for gender
issues to be incorporated into classroom
settings,” said Tom Pickering ‘05, head of
the action committee and former IFC
President. “We would collaborate with the
faculty,” he continued, and the committee
would seek to allow on campus issues to
be part of classroom discussion. The
Judicial Review Action Team, led by Katie
Henderson, the student chair of the
Student Faculty Hearing Board, which
hears cases dealing with sexual assault,
would “evaluate reporting procedures to
make students more comfortable,” said
Henderson. They would also seek to
“make sure procedures and policies ﬁt
within W&L culture right now.

Somers states that the GRC is
“hoping before the end of the year to make
a lot of changes.” Seniors on the
committee all plan to see speciﬁc changes
as a result of this formation before their
graduation.

The GRC’s co—advisors Jan
Kaufman, director of Health Promotion,
and Jennifer Sayre, counselor, are working
closely with the group to ensure faculty
support.

 
 
   
 
 

 
   
 
     

 
       
     
   

.1,

 

1

1
‘i

THE RING-TUM PHI - 3

 

Ginder sets pace for team a

    

Courtesy Sports Information
-Ni:iml(§irhr

“I usually swim my best when
there ’s someone that’s faster than
_I am in the lane next to me. I '
don’t like to lose, so I push myself
even harder when I ’m swimming
against someone fast”

order to gain a strong education while
pursuing swimming. In addition, his
father attended and swam for W&L. “As
I was growing up, he used to tell me stories
from his college years. I knew I wanted
to swim in college, but also wanted a
balance between athletics and academics,”
Ginder explained.

A competitive spirit and a desire to
win motivates Ginder to swim his best.
“The thing I enjoy most about swimming
is probably racing. I usually swim my best

when there’s someone that’s faster than I
am in the lane next to me. I don’t like to
lose, so I push myself even harder when
I'm swimming against someone fast” said
Ginder.

Although he excels in many aspects
of swimming, Ginder’s area of expertise
is freestyle. “My favorite race has to be
the 200 free. I like this race best because
it’s stiH considered a sprint race but there’s
room for some minor mistakes.” He has
had continued success in this race. “I also

placed 4th at the NCAA DIII Nationals
meet last year so that’s a big part of why I
like the event so much.”

Ginder’s favorite moment of the
season was the 400 meter free relay at
Conferences. The relay team was seeded
third for the last event of the meet. After
being behind for much of the race, Ginder,
who was swimming the anchor leg, was
able to bring them into first. They ended
up winning by .67 seconds. The win put
them at 800 points, which was a goal of
the meet, and enabled the team to come
home Conference champions.

Ginder attributes much of his
success to goal-oriented coaching. “Joel
did a great job of motivating us to put
everything we had into every race this
season. We had a great second season
under his coaching ﬁnishing the season
6-2.”

Known as “Golden Boy,” Michael
Ginder has shown himself to be a
consistent and motivated swimmer. With
speed, determination, and a true love of
the sport, Ginder promises to be a star on
the swimming team for the rest of his
W&Leareer.

Hollins, Washington

known to provide stiff competition to the
Women’s tennis team in recent years,
upcoming matches with teams outside the
ODAC will prove challenging.

Next weekend’s match at Dennison
College is one of those matches.
“Everything this week will culminate with
Dennison,” said Wortham. “We lost last
4-5 last year and it was a heartbreaker.”

Looking to turn last year’s loss
around, the team has remained focused
and maintained an intense standard of
training since the beginning of the season.
Though recent snowfall and bitter cold
days have added extra challenges to the
already demanding practice schedule, the
women have found ways to continue to
workout. Each practice consists of an hour
of conditioning and an hour of actual play.
“It’s a new level of focus, but we have big
goals,” said Wortham. “When we do well
and work hard it’s kind of a good feeling.”

DOMINATINGTHEOOURTS '

 

Jon Roger Sail Photographer

LedbyNo.25PaulMoClureandNo.20DavidShay,theNo.10Mens’Tennis
team defealed No.18WashingtonOollege6-1 on March5.

Women laxers pull off 9-8 victory in ﬁnal seconds

Team improves record to 1-1 with win over No. 14 Franklin and Marshall

Kristen Foster (Denver, Colo./Kent
Denver), to take a 4-2 advantage with
13:19 remaining in the first half. W&L
junior attacker Amanda Strickler
(Lexington, Va./Rockbridge County)
notched an unassisted tally at the 19:27
mark to cut the deficit to 4-3, which was
the score heading into halftime.

The Generals trailed 5-3 just 3:10
into the second half, but would score the
next three goals to take a 6-5 lead with
15:58 remaining in the game. Freshman
attacker Christine Bender (Moorestown,
N.J./Moorestown) scored the first of her
three goals to give W&L the lead. F&M
replied with two goals to take a 7-6 lead
and the Generals responded with a pair of

l #1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa Rica. 110%
Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
endlesssummertours.com

goals to go up 8-7.

The Diplomats tied the game at 8-8
on a free position goal by sophomore
midﬁelder Brenna Dolphin (Wilmington,
Del./Archmere) with 5:33 left in the .garne,
which set up Hoobchaak’s game-winner.

Hoobchaak notched one goal and
two assists in the game, while sophomore
midﬁelder Kelly Evans (Lexington, Va./
Rockbridge County) added a pair of goals.

F&M was led by Foster, who had
three goals and an assist. Senior attacker
Alexis O’Meara (Millersville, Md./Sevem
School) also notched three goals.

W&L freshman goalkeeper Sarah
Tilbor (West Simsbury, Conn./Simsbury)
made nine saves, while Diplomats

MG‘lDAY,MARCH7,ZIJ5
\ THIS WEEK
'.
MONDAY, MARCH7 -
-Baseball vs. Villa Julie; 3:00
TUESDAY, MARCH8
-Women’s Tennis at Sweet Briar'4 30 By K“!
- v STAFFWRITER
WENESDAY,MARCH9
IMen’s LAX vs Elizabethtown; 3230 Using powerful Strokes’ a desire to
, -Women’s LAX vs. Frostburg 4:00; win, and his secret dorsal fin, Michael
. Ginder swam his way into the record
11-uRsDAY,MAﬁcH1o books at the Bluegrass Mountain
-Baseball VS_ S. Virginia; 3:00 Championship. The sophomore from
Jacksonville, Florida dominated the
freestyle events coming in first in the 50,
FRDAY MARCH11 ’

A ’ 100 and 200 meter freestyle races. He set
-Track at NCAA,S TBA a school record in the 200 free, and led
-Women’s Tennis at MWC 4:00 two relay teams to two more records.

Ginder’s outstanding performance
_ SA-rURDAY!MARcH12 was rewarded with Co-Swimmer of the
-Women’s Tennis at R—MC 9200 Meet honors. In addition, Ginder qualiﬁed
-Mews Tennis at R_MC 9:00 for ‘NCAA Division III Swimming &
_ Diving championships in all ﬁve events.
-Track W&L Inv. 10:00 p The most important outcome for him,
.Women,S Tennis VS. Guilford 10:00 however, was the second straight W&L
win at the Bluegrass Mountain
-Baseball R—MC 12:00 Championship
-Men’s Tennis vs. Denison 12:00 Ginder began Swimming when he,
was eight years old for a neighborhood
Iwomcn 5 LAX at CUA 1300 summer club team. He continued to swim
-Men’s Tennis vs. VWC 3:00 through high school. He chose W&L in
-Women’s Tennis vs. VWC 3:00
'Men’s LAX vs. F&M 6:00
 GCIICIH S SWEEP
-Women’s Tennis vs. Denison 10:00
IBaseball vs. HSC 12:00
-Women’s LAX at Lynchburg 2:00
' SPORTS BRIEFS
BySadiBloom
W&LMen’sLacrosseDawns 5”“‘F““"‘ E”
 Th t h re of fo
Senior attackman Jack Murray scored d fie was an‘; mlgsp C d Gus
a career—high four goals and assisted an Con 1 ence as _ as mg_t0n, a_n Lee
on another to lead eighth-ranked defelited botg ﬁI°HmS_ Umvirslty and
Washington and Lee to a 9-8 win over was mgton 0 egg this Wlae slid’ The
Sixtbmnked Gettysburg on Saturday Generals walked away victorious in every
afternoon at the W&L Turf Field. mam‘ Play“ _ , , .
. “Everyone just dominated,’ said
_ sophomore Ginny Wortham.
T“Dw&L I'%:|b Coach Curt Speerschneider has
 developed a game plan with a week by
Washlhgtoh and Lee S€h10T Chris week breakup of the team’s short and long-
C°lhY and S0Ph0m0f€ Mlchael term goals. “This week was the ﬁrst week
Glfldﬁf haV€ qualiﬁed f0f the NCAA where we really aimed to focus on our
DlVlSlOIl  lVlCIl’S  and playing,” said Wortham. The team
Diving Championships held at the currently has an undefeated record and
Holland Community Aquallc Cﬁhlﬁf number three doubles team Katie
in Hollﬂnd, Mich-. fr0m Thu‘: M31 Kingsbury and Kelly Will have yet to lose
17-53% M31 19- a game in competition.
Though the ODAC has not been
W&LFieldHookeyEamsNFHCA
Academic Honor(3l'3)
The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey
team has been cited by the National
Field Hockey Coaches Association
(NFHCA) for its team grade-point
average (GPA), the association
announced on Wednesday.
W&LSporlsHelease
W&L Men’sTennisDefealsNo.18 seoﬁrsrronwmow
Washington, 6-1 (3f5) V
The Washington and Lee men’s tennis Sehlol mldfleldeh Natalya
team improved to 4.4 Overall with 3 6- Hoobchaak (Barrington, Ill./Loyola
1 win Over 18th_ranked washington Academy) scored off an assist from senior
College on Saturday evening. mldflelder Maggie Speasmakef
_ _ _ (Charlottesville, Va./St. Anne’s-Belﬁeld)
W&LBaseba|lPickedSIxlhrn with 22 seconds left in the game to lift
ODAC Pd|(@2) No. 20 Washington and Lee to a 9-8
The Old Dominion Athletic victory over N o. 14 Franklin and Marshall
Conference released its baseball in Women’s lacrosse action on Saturday
preseason poll on Wed. and W&L was afternoon at Watt Field.
picked to ﬁnish sixth among the 10 The Generals (1-1) led 2-1 with
conference teams. 4:50 gone-by in the first half, but the
Diplomats (0-1) scored three straight
  goals, including two by 'junior attacker
Elifte 
LOOKING To START A BIJSLNESS
OR
OWNING YOUR OWN HOME 2!!
Call us and we vvill have’your ptoblexn solved
Vve specialize in: Debt Consolidation,
I-Iotno loacn. Auxto Loans
Srn/all Business Luann. Personal 1153115. ‘
No UP FRONT FEES
CALL AT: 1866-236-8288
1999 Audi A4 lluatlio
KM I'iIl|I0.12 0|] changer, !I00lI Gﬂlllllllllll.
$11,500. Ball 261-5598.

LIFEGUAF-IDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier411.com
1 377 SEE POOL

sophomore netminder Kim Pleasants
(Upper Darby, Pa./Upper Darby) stopped
eight shots.

    
      

lllig ii
if

    

~§.—‘__

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Sll0P
273 Raphine Road
Raphlne, VA 24472
s4o34s522o - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams. kits. needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Callforworlrshop&dasslnformation.

Halfway between lgxington and Slaunfon
0n I-81 /I-64 at air 205, Rankine. 4rm'Ies west on
Romp  Raphine Road. Located Ulla W0l'h'”8
fann iha: o_tfers "U-PICK " appariunitiesfor fresh
fruit when in season.

'llies - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed imtil 8:00

w 

 

 
 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

artsalife

 

MG\DAY,MAFlCH7,ZI5

Freshmanbasks in the g oryof opp

Bymarychias

ITSBDTYCXJ. ITSME

Being a freshman is a tricky
thing. The world is before you — a sea of
fun things cry your name and it’s your job
to stand there and bask in the glory that is
opportunity. You get here, you set your
stuff up in your square inch of personal
space, and the frat callscommence. Now
it is rumored that one or two freshmen girls
have all of a sudden taken to fancying
themselves wonderful and beautiful, as a
direct result of these said frat calls, and
the boys consider themselves frat lords,
because whenever they attend said parties
they are lauded over and praised. “Man,”
they think to themselves, “I must be like
awesome, this guy thinks I am SO cool!
They think I’m like the biggest partier, it
must be true.” And thus we have the head
inﬂation of another class of Washington
and Lee graduates. But, my friends, the
glory that is first semester freshman year
is ﬁnite.

First term I took such rigorous
classes as Dance, Drawing and poetry.
While all of these classes were
magnificent in and of themselves,
combined they provided me with the
perfect opportunity to go out whenever I
pleased and spend time as I saw ﬁt.

This term, however, my courses
were signiﬁcantly different. And I sprained

NEWSBJTOCI

After innumerable covers of Phish,
Dave Matthews, Coldplay and U2 at
Friday’s Battle of the Bands, the only band
to perform all-original compositions took
home the first-place prize of $1000.
J acob’s Ladder, last to perform, received
the most enthusiastic audience support
after its set. Band members Dan Fassio

’05, Wheeler Sparks ’06, Pete Jones ’06

and Jared Meyer ’07 also won a spot on
the program at Buffalo Creek this May.

Second place and $500 went to
another crowd favorite, Jon Bovi and the
Afternoon Delights, whose vocalist
announced, “I got a fever....and we’re
going to ﬁll that prescription with some
friggin’ cowbell.” Spirited cowbell use
drew cheers and laughter from a crowd
numbed by dreary Oasis covers. Social
Probation earned third place and $250
with its energetic covers of Madonna and
The Darkness.

 

I ’ve been to all of these cities and I can’t tell you
what they look like because I slept through it, or
sang through it, or was too dazed and confused
to understand my own location. They put us on
the bus, took us to a city, took us 0]?’ the bus,

and told us to sing, like a herd of musical sheep.
 

my foot, so I was late to all of them. But
in any case, shifting gears from first to
second term was nearly impossible. Please
note that this is my first column
since...2004. I slept through a few
deadlines. And all of these classes that
were breezy and fun last term have
suddenly transformed into monstrous
(interesting, too! Sorry, profs) juggemauts
that consume as much time as I will allow
them.

During what I believe was
Orientation week, we were herded to the
gym to walk around in circles past tables
of upperclassmen hoping to get our
commitment to some kind of important
charity or extracurricular. Being the wide-
eyed and excitable freshmen that I was, I
signed up at pretty ‘much every table I
found. Pan—Hellenic ﬁtness classes? Why
sure! Cystic Fibrosis Ball? Sounds great!
Interfraternity Council? Awesome!

Obviously all of these commitments to
which I committed myself have since
fallen away.

Just recently, the pledge class of my
brand-new sorority and I decided our
housing situations for the rest of our W&L
careers. When we toured the country
houses and all the rest, the map of
Lexington spread out before us uncharted
and full of hope. But alas, reality set in
and suddenly the map was marked and
ﬂagged left and right ~ this one is a two-
year lease, this one is taken for junior year,
this one is taken for both years, this one is
a ﬁve person house, are you going abroad?
Suddenly my life was asking me to commit
to everything all at once. Where do you
want to live? Who will be your friends in
three years? The control I relished at the
beginning of the year is disappearing as I
sign my life away for the remaining of my
time here. Soon they will ask me for my

major, and then husband and number of
children. And these answers will be
binding.

And harkening back to the frat calls
and praise of yore? Unfortunately, we have
all pledged or not pledged. The rushing
has ended. The boys are no longer lords
of every frat; instead, they serve one and
only one. The girls are not amazingly
popular with every lunch date booked ‘till
kingdom come; they are in but one
sorority, or not. and receive not three, not
two — nay. the frat calls of those golden
days are now reserved only for the
incomings in the fall.

Over Feb. break, while many of you
were sunbathing on beautiful beaches with
sand and air and water and beautiful
things. others of us were on nasty-smelling
buses watching Mallrats and 8—mile over
and over. That’s right. Jubilee/SoCo tour
2005. I think we managed about
24,733,901 cities in that week alone. And
we paid to do it. It would have been
glorious had 1 any idea where in the world
I was. For example, Ijust now learned
from the tee-shirt that Lauren’s making
that I was in Fort Worth. It was news to
me. I’ve been to all of these cities and I
can’t tell you what they look like because
I slept through it, or sang through it, or
was too dazed and confused to understand
my own location. They put us on the bus,
took us to a city, took us off the bus, and
told us to sing, like a herd of musical

   

PHOTOS BY STEVEN MAFIINOS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

s takes 2nd

ortunity

sheep. It was fun, and we loved to do it,
but for Mary Childs, whose life has just
recently been removed from her hands, it
did not help her to orient herself and
acclimate herself upon return.

So not only have my classes
attacked me ruthlessly, and not only has
housing been locked for the next three
years (granted, I’m pretty ﬂipping excited
about living with dragons and pandas and
bears, oh my!), but also I have ofﬁcially
turned into a singing sheep. Or a lemming.
Whatever you choose, because I’ve
relinquished all control. Clearly any
attempts on my part to control where I go
or what I do are futile. Perhaps signing up
for two plays was a bad idea; perhaps I
shouldn’t have stacked my schedule this
way. All of these thoughts, too, are just
spinning wheels. But luckily I was told
earlier that I will in fact ﬂoat on alright,
and hey, spring term is shining brightly at
the end of this dreary semester. I can
almost hold my breath that long. So the
Orientation week glitter of opportunity,
breezy classes and anything-you—want-to-
do - mostly gone. Being a freshman is not
the time to accomplish anything, to pursue
your dreams — no, instead, it is a time to
settle and a time to commit. Which is by
no stretch a bad thing — but maybe they
should put up a sign at the little Activities
Fair that week just to give the wide-eyed
frosh a heads up.

(PS. I just remembered Fort Worth).

Against the Grain

 

By!(ﬂsli1Evms
noarsnusozm

I believe that I am an optimist.
I always try to search for the brighter
‘side of things, but lately my friends
have been wearing 7 down my
optimism. How, you might ask, by
mentioning the awful c-
word...co1nmitmeut.l Not just
commitment but relationships in
general. Something that I have been
3. fumed. to  is less common than
I thought on this campus." L
In the past two weeks i have
had so many friends complain to me

am forgetst .... g

about the dating scene on our campus
that it made me take a second look at it
myself. I was a little surprised by what
I found. Washington and Lee is not a
relationship school, though there are
exceptions to every rule it is a “hook-
up” school, as my friends angrily
reminded me several times throughout
the week.

However, the lack of
relationships on campus is not what
took me by surprise. Relationships are
rare, if everyone was in a fulfilling
relationship, the dating services that
practically attack nofe when I am online
just would not exist. What puzzles me

is the relationship etiquette on this
campus. Honestly, I just do not
understand it. Maybe I neglected to pick
up my “Guide to W&L dating”
handbook at my freshmen rnatiiculation
because I am utterly confused.

For example, since when has it
been okay to take someone else’s
boyfriend to a formal as your date‘? He
may be 3 good friend of yours but he is

someone else’s boyfriend. I was under
the impression that this type of behavior
was taboo (or at least it is in the rest of
the country). I am not a jealous person
and I do not think that people should
be upset if their significant other does

a friend a favor, but itiis the principle
of the thing!

Now I am not completely ‘

blaming the girl for asking in this
example. She needed a date and if he
agrees to accompany her, she gets what
she wants. At the same time, I cannot
completely blame the guy either. He did
not want to be rude, she could just be a
friend, and besides, she knows that he
has a girlfriend anyway, right‘?
WRONG! It seems like this is yet
another case of political incomectness._
Neither party wants to offend, but at the
same time both are wondering‘ what is
really going on. Please do not pretend

rah “Guide toW&L daing” 

like you haveinotwbeen in asimatiggm
like this before. I know that you have.

So maybe this explains the ,2
“casual dating” on our campus. It just
seems easier. If you /are not in a
relationship then you can do whatever
you want  whomever you want,
period. I just 1iave\to wonder is that
really what makes in happy? With so
many of my ﬁiends complaining about 
this very thing, I am not ‘so sure
anymore. My friends would say the /
W&L way of dating is just destined ‘ if
for disaster, but the truth is that some if
people make it work. Like I said, I
have to be optimistic.

 

7

1 .

 

 
  

t
'1

1

XX‘

4.

I

4

K

 

MGDAY, MARCH 7, Z15

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 5

“Being a woman is a terribly difﬁcult task, since
it consists principally in dealing with men. ”,

—JosephOonrad

AFlTS&L|FEEDfl'O3'

Most of my friends at other
schools are either skiing to their
hearts’ content or soaking up the rays
at sultry beaches. As for us, we have
a month until that gap between classes
and fun that the administration calls
Spring Break.

I don’t know about the
rest of you, but snowfall
shouldn’t happen in March,
ever, unless you live in
Antarctica.

I find that a little online
shopping helps to ease the
pain of the winter blues,
especially when it comes in the form
of an awesome white jacket by Vince
or a new pair of Theory pants.

This spring’s trends are nothing
we haven’t seen before. I wish a
couple of them had never come back
(or even started for that matter), but

     
   
  

we’ll start with my favorites.
White, white, everything white.
White pants, white dresses, white tank
tops... you get the idea. Nothing says
spring quite like crisp white clothing.
Everyone from J. Crew to Bergdorf
has a great selection of the color not
in the UV spectrum. Just don’t wear
all white. It’s not sorority
initiation, and the purpose of
spring is so that we don’t ,
4 have to look at snowballs.
Shrunken jackets 
have been making their way‘ ' »
into the limelight
since late fall,

   
   
  
     

first time in a couple of years. They’re
adorable, if you don’t have hips. If
you do have hips, stay away. "
Otherwise, you’ll wind up
looking like a pear on steroids.
The Anthropologie
catalog is full of
adorable dresses
and skirts sporting
this trend.

V Oversized ; ‘
bags are in. I
W h e t h e r
they’re in a
n o r In a 1
color, such

 

but with g as green or

lightweight  pink, or

materials, PHOTOSCOURTESV or NEIMANMARCUSCOM in a hot
they’llbe huge in metallic

spring. Paired with a cute James
Perse tank top and some Antikjeans,
they’ll have you whistling a bright
tune in no time.

Full Skirts are reappearing for the

shade, these bags are hot. They’re good
for carrying everything from your
chemistry lab manuals to your walk of
shame necessities. No matter if you
have the coveted Lolli bag or a cute

Phi investigates Glad

ByErriyEdwads

ARTS& UFEHJITOH

In the past 24 hours I have learned
many useful things. First, Z-rated tires
are no match for a snowstorm, the theater
in Buena Vista does not accept debit cards,
and Glad has done it again.

During Thursday’s repeat episode
of The OC, an advertisement for a new
product by Glad aired on TV. This
product, Glad Press ‘n Seal, promised to
take away all my spillage worries. All my
spillage worries? Something must be
wrong with it.

They showed Gladware containers
that were useless without their lids. They
showed sectionless plates. They showed
coffee cups. And Glad promised that their

new product, when used as a Saran wrap ,

of sorts, would eliminate spills. But does
it?
I bought myself a roll of Press ‘n

Seal at our neighborhood Wal-Mart for
the amazing price of $4.46 for
approximately 150 ft. of wrap. I will
admit, I was skeptical of this uber-
American, self-proclaimed life-changing
product.

Armed with some paper towels
and a pile of leftovers, I tested Press ‘n
Seal in my Woods Creek apartment
kitchen. If you desire the same thrills, I
highly recommend it.

First on my list was the lidless
Gladware container. I ﬁlled it with milk
(sour, perhaps) and applied Press ‘11 Seal.
According to the instructions, the
container’s rim must be dry. Check.

After thoroughly sealing the
container, I carried it to the sink, and
ﬂipped, shook, and tipped the container.
Nothing happened. And by nothing, I
mean not a drop leaked out.

Next up was the sectionless plate.
I spooned out some salsa, pasta, and rice

  

It’s not that far to
East Lexington...
where your FD flowers aw
l60i3iNoiWe*é‘Fiiyhway\

540.463.9841 thejefferson@ade|phia71et,
www.thejeffersonfloristandgarden.com

  7“   ‘ii     ,
florist@garden

Easy Access off Furrs Mill Road. ‘i

 

  
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
   

Spring Fashion update

i Shrunken jackets among this season’s trends

Prada tote, a nice spring bag
helps to understate the cold
weather.
The final trend is the
wedge shoe. Can you walk
in wedge shoes? I
attempted in eighth
grade and failed
(ehem, fell) miserably.
Some of these shoes are
reminiscent of the Steve
Madden platfrom era,
God help us. But,
nevertheless, everyone
‘ from Nine West to Kate
Spade and Jimmy
Choo are cranking out
multiple wedge styles.
So, if you’re looking to
spruce up your wardrobe for
the upcoming season, here are just
a few of my picks. Take them or
leave them. With the exception of
the treacherous wedge, I’ll

definitely be wearing these items.

roduct

 

onto the plate. Now, if you’re as anal as I
a.m, you don’t enjoy your food touching
each other. Thisis a problem with
leftovers.

Once again, I applied the wrap to
the plate, and pressing it in between the
different sections of food, I created
sections.

I repeated the Gladware experiment
again, shaking, turning, ﬂipping and
tipping the plate. Nothing moved.

Now, if for some reason, you’re
worried about your frat cup spilling at the
next band party, don’t use Press ‘n Seal.

PHOTO COURTESY OFVGLADC

It miserably failed the cup tests.
Using coffee cups, frat cups, ‘

glasses, and a Pyrex measuring bowl,

I was unable to make use of my
miracle product. I guess we’ll just
have to keep using sippy cups.

Out of the realm of food, Press
‘n Seal has many uses, from a lint
remover to a makeshift table cloth
(attractive, I know).

You can visit Glad’s website
for many more wonderful hints. If
only my Michelins were as useful as
Press ‘n Seal.

Student
poetically
argues for
snow days

layianoicirnson

srAi=FwPm3a'

 

Not Rain nor Sleet nor snow nor hail
Shall ever close mighty W&L
Though Students fear th’ icy car trip
In schedule changes it will never slip

An hour or two, maybe no more
A Stoic Tim Kolly Announces at th’ door
No pity here shall you ever seek
Should late to class this weather make

This cold uncaring and unfeeling giant
V Is really acting all quite deﬁant
Don’t they know the consequences
When winter blizzard doth intenses?

From screeching wheels to cmnching crash
Or slipping feet from classward dash
The broken skull cannot repair
Nor can the leg that tendon tear

The lucid ice that covers the ground
It does not discern from student or town
All shall face Sir Jack Frost’s wrath
When Mr. Kolly puts them in his path

The lawsuits! Oh see how they ﬂy!
God help us if someone should die!
But lucky are you who on broken ground lie
For there is a lawschool right nearby!

And if this incident should cause attention
Then god forbid someone goes to prison
Although convenience is at our door
As VMI is our vigilant Neighbor

As things seem now, as it would stand
If rain of fire swept cross the land
Tim Kolly would contact us through mail
“School will be open, even through hell”

And so sorry stands our state of affairs
That we question if our beloved school cares
Our hardworking staff that could use a break

But never from our time schedules take

So Administration please listen up good
Lest we think you cold hearted and rude

And take from me these words of advice,
My, wouldn’t a snow-day sure be nice’?

stand-un comerlv

also teaturing
- cnris walker - 8:00 |IIn
Kalli sllellnutl - 8:15

xalr Ilauscll uresents

tonlalnsamlrin Imllm amarlrrlrnnlltalrt

 

6 OTHERNG-TUMPHI

NKIDAY, MARCH 7, E15

IIDIIIIIIIIS

 

Planning ideas

Because student input is an
essential part of the strategic planning
process, The Ring—tum Phi will put
across a few ideas regarding the
Communications report, which is
concerned primarily with Washington
and Lee’s national reputation and narne—
recognition..

Within the Communications
strategic recommendations, several
excellent ideas are put forth. A satellite
uplink seems to be a solid way to

I‘ facilitate a huge amount of press

coverage for the University.

The report also proposes to
“Change the Conversation Around
Robert E. Lee.” Because Lee truly did
make important contributions to the
field of higher education, we fully
support the idea of highlighting these
very positive facets of his character.

We also fully support the idea of
asking national figures to serve as
commencement speakers. We ﬁrmly
believe this is the easiest way for our
school to garner national attention.

At the end of the report, the
Communications task force points to
the necessity of a Visitor’s Center. This
idea makes perfect sense, as currently
the closes thing to a Visitor’s Center
that Washington and Lee has is Lee
Chapel, which certainly does not help
to “Change the Conversation Around
Robert E. Lee.”

The Communications report
does make one unfortrmate proposal.
The University does not need to alter
the Trident to make it look “less
ominous and reminiscent of a
swastika.” Our Trident looks no more
like a swastika than the New York
Yankees’ symbol. And anyway, why
change something as inherent to our
school’s image as the Trident when the
end goal is as vague as looking “less
ominous”? ‘ ‘

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson has
recovered from the plague to give you
his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

0 Mach ‘
In like some sort of twisted lion-lamb
hybrid, probably out in the same way.

0 Gwstatuehcommons

I was showing around some
girls from Hollins who were visiting
for an athletic event, and when they
saw the statue they were like
“ohhhh....that is terrible.” Thing was
meant to be seen from a distance.

OTrident Logo

Administrators- you really can’t take it
away. a- everyone loves it, who cares
if it looks vaguely ominous? b- you’d
have to spend a lot of money painting
over things and getting letterheads
redone. Our tuition is high enough.

0 Honor System

Only one person has left the school
because of an alleged HV so far this
year. Very low.

0Prof. Diette

Dear Econ Dept.— Now is the time to
stop the perpetual revolving door for
visiting profs who teach intro courses.
Hire this man. No. this has nothing at
all to do with my midterm on Tuesday.

‘_ 0ExamWeekaMonthAway

Please, whoever makes this
decision...please bring back free soda
week during exams. Don’t make me
beg now.

0 The Brick

Getting orders out noticeably faster
now. Still, could they serve soda in

_L_ __‘s_o_rnetIiing OTHER than frat cups?

0 Nader
It’s “Presidential Election Footnotes”

year for Contact, apparently. Not that
I’m complaining, Pol major that I am.

0 Baseball

Nothing warms this Little League
umpire’s heart like the smell of a
freshly-tended field and the sound of
the crack of a bat. Go Padres!

Belief in premarital
sex on the decline at  
W&L and elsewhere

ByBeckyLeMo'ne

TI-ELHEFIALVEW

Sex is usually regarded as a taboo
subject, yet is also one that seems to
consume our popular culture. We see sex
in movies, TV, and music videos, hear
about sex in songs and stories, and read
about it in books and magazines. Indeed,
sex seems to be everywhere. When it
comes to engaging in premarital sex, if
people were to simply follow the examples
of popular culture there would be little
question about it: the majority of media
have given two big thumbs up to
premarital sex. ~

According to a Gallup poll taken in
May 2003,58% of respondents said
premarital sex is morally acceptable, a
ﬁgure that just one year prior was ﬁve
points lower. Views on premarital sex
seem to differ greatly based on political
ideology, gender, education, race, age, and
other factors. For example, in the survey,
42% of conservatives supported
premarital sex, compared to 64% of
moderates and 80% of liberals. Men were
more likely than women to support
premarital sex, as were the college-
educated, young adults, whites, and people
who attended religious services rarely or
never.

In addition, the number of
cohabiting couples has increased nine fold
since the beginning of the “sexual

- revolution." In the summer 2003 issue of

Youth Culture Today, ﬁgures showed that
the number of cohabiting couples
increased from half a million couples to
more than 4.5 million between 1960 and
2000. A Gallup survey of 13 to 17 year
olds also showed that 70% of teens say
they approve of couples living together
before marriage.

Even at Washington and Lee, a
random sampling of students revealed that

a majority have engaged in premarital sex,
especially among males. So what does this
say about our society?

Those opposed to premarital sex
argue that it degrades the moral values of
our culture, and counters the values
instituted in many religions. They feel that
the increasing support for premarital sex
is only further evidence of the corruption
in society. However, those in support often
argue that premarital sex has no serious
repercussions and that, since sex often
plays a key role in relationships, premarital
sex is helpful in choosing a lifelong partner

that will satisfy the sexual aspects of a »

marriage.

While there are valid arguments on
both sides of the issue and the emotional
effects of premarital sex still remain highly
contested, certain facts are difficult to
ignore: an increase in premarital sex leads
to an increased risk in the contraction of
sexually transmitted diseases, and
pregnancy. People who practice abstinence
until marriage are less likely to bring a
sexual disease to a marriage, whereas
people who engage in sex with multiple
partners before marriage are more likely
to have contracted a sexual disease that
could possibly cause severe pregnancy
complications. Therefore, if the trend
continues, premarital sex could present
serious physical consequences for our
society.

Whether or not you approve of
premarital sex, there is no denying that our
society is gradually discarding the ideals
of the past and moving into a future that
embraces a new set of moral values. Yet,
this is not an unfamiliar story. Each
generation must face a degradation of
previous ideals and learn to adapt to the
popular ethics of modern culture. Even
though virginity until marriage is not quite
dead, it is certainly notvon the rise, and
that is an issue that we must face
personally as well as collectively.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-’l‘UM PHI.

EDITORS-IN—CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST.OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

CXDPY EDITORS

7TreFlirg-t1nH1'spibishedMoridaysdimgﬂiemdergradiia1esdndyear
atW$h‘ngtonandLeeUriversity, Lex'ngton,Vrg‘nia
ﬂreFiy-unH1lsanierberdﬁePibﬁr.aﬁasBoam,unisdI'erMseirideperuent
TheFb'7ga.rnF’hv‘weIoornesaI| .
Alstbirtimionsmistbee-rnaledtophi@wtu.eduorIntheUniversityoentermailboxbyspm
Fn'daytoappearintheioIkwvTrig\IveeI(se(itic>I1.
ﬂreI=hgLamHiIeservesﬂ1engrbedtsi1xriissimsforoa1temarrd|er\gm.
Lettersandoolunrisdoriotrieoessarilyreﬂedtheoptnionof
Adverﬂsingdoesnotreﬂec1theorinbr'sot77reFI)hg-&JmPHori1sstaﬂ.
lliisnewspaperobseweswnawtaxindeﬁriiﬁorsotibelaridobsoerity.

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS '
CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
V 

Blogs an excellent new fron-
tier for news and opinion

BYWNIMWDUNEV

(£\ERAI..LYS’EN<I\G

If you’re anything like most
Washington and Lee students, you’re
probably too busy/tired/stnmg out on
Red Bull to find time to read the
newspaper on a daily basis. Not to say
you wouldn’t check out CNN every
once and a while (okay...maybe Fox
News is more likely) or read a column
or two on the internet, but I think we
all agree that sitting down to read a
newspaper is a pretty time consuming
activity. “Yeah,” you may think, “but
if I had more time I’d read it every day.”
Maybe. . .or maybe not.

Susan Goldberg, executive
editor of Silicon Valley’s Mercury
News, speaking at the National College
Newspaper Convention, said, “More
than 80 percent of adults read a daily
newspaper 40 years ago. . .Last yearit
was hovering just above 50 percent.”

It is safe to say that the decline
in newspaper reading is due, in part, to
the plethora of new media outlets,
especially the internet. However, I
believe this figure is indicative of a
greater problem, a changing image of
the mainstream media.

The post—Nixon era saw a
stampede of journalism students,
fueled by youthful idealism and the
inﬂuence of Woodward and Bernstein.
Reporters were viewed as an effective
and necessary check on those with
power. *

Today, most people are aware
that the news is more a packaged
product in support of or against the
status quo, rather than an impartial
source of information. Do you choose
“Hearty Conservative” talk radio or
“Right'Lite” Fox News? How about
“Left Lovers” New York Times? Of
course, you ‘could always go for
“Manager’s Choice,” internet blogs.

The partisanship of media is
evident, despite the protestations of
media moguls (“No really, we’re fair
and balanced”) It is unclear if this bias
was created by the idealistic polarity
of the American public or visa versa,
but one thing is certain. The American
people have a growing desire to hear
the news that they want,.and to
discredit that which they don’t.

Add this issue to the lack of
accountability seen in many
newsrooms as of late (thanks Dan
Rather, Howell Raines, and Eason
Jordan), and you end up with a lot of
people sick and tired of mainstream
media. The result: alternative new
sources of varying levels of accuracy,
in the form of internet blogs.

Many initially picture bloggers
as bumouts, sitting on their couches
and typing their random opinions, but
in fact American political history has
a great tradition of blogging (think of
Thomas Paine as a precursor).
Although there may be a few bumouts
contributing their opinions, the
growing distaste for mainstream media
has createda demand for accountable
and well written internet blogs, much
to the alarm of traditional news
sources. ‘

To combat this threat,
mainstream media had been doing
everything in its power to discredit the
bloggers. For example, New York
Times recently ran an article entitled
“Bloggers as News Media Trophy
Hunters,” a blatant attempt to portray
bloggers as an unintelligent, unreliable
mob of two—bit writers (as opposed to
the highly intelligent and reliable
writing always found in mass media
today).

Yes, on occasion this is true (but
keep in mind it’s the intemet...you
could find a mail order wife while
combating pop ups advertising various
types of “enhancement”). The fact is
that there is a lot of junk out there in
cyber space, so if you wanted to find
some lunatic blogger and quote them
to discredit blogging as a whole, it
wouldn’t be a hard task.

Still, there are well researched
blogs written by both conservatives
and liberals, and that these outlets
provide an important service—a check
on the mainstream news media. So
when mainstream media decides to
ignore Jordan’s remark about U.S.
soldiers shooting journalists in Iraq,
there are watchdogs to demand
coverage.

Meanwhile, media moguls are
toying with ideas to make mainstream

news more appealing again to the I

American public. Here’s a few simple
ones for them:

1. Try harder to be responsible
in reporting, lately it seems to be a lost
art.

2. Hold those accountable who
are unreliable reporters. The only thing
worse than being found to be
irresponsible in reporting is being
found trying to cover up an
indiscretion.

3. Try being unbiased for once.
You don’tALWAYS have to slant news
stories, and in fact the story may just
be easier to stomach if you don’t."

Otherwise, in ten years we may
just find ourselves reading blogs
instead of newspapers.

...there is a lot of junk out there in cyber
space, so if you wanted to ﬁnd some lunatic
blogger and quote them to discredit blogging
as a whole, it wouldn’t be a hard task.

l 
Debate over minimum
wage misses the point

wca|eyAnuason

MIE?ATE’SMH\%

Even as we speak, debate rages
in the Senate over two conflicting plans
for raising the minimum wage. While
both Republicans and Democrats of
every ilk agree that the minimum wage
needs raising, they differ on the degree.
Republicans want a raise of slightly
over a dollar over 18 months,
Democrats want a two dollar increase
over roughtly two years.

Personally, I’ve always been
bafﬂed by debate over minimum wage

__ Vlaws. The purpose of aminimurn wage
is to ensi1’re'that those »w—ho_find_,,

‘employment keep up (more or less)
with the cost of living. The price paid
for this is to actually increase
unemployment (as anyone who has
taken Econ 101 can attest).

But as it stands, the minimum
wage is inconsistent and fails to meet
even the simple goal of ensuring that

the employed meet the cost of living.
The wage ranges across states; some
states use the Federal minimum wage
of $5.15, others set it higher (California
sits at $6.75).

There exists no state or federal
minimum wage, however, which is
even close, proportionally, to the cost
of living in the area where it applies.
Thus, debating constantly over when
and by how much to raise it seems
inefficient.

It would make more sense to tie
the minimum wage to a local price
index, as is done in San Francisco.
Thus, the cost of living in any particular
area would directly determine the
minimum wage, with adjustments
occuring perhaps monthly. Locality is
important; it costs more to live in Los
Angeles than Omaha, yet the Federal
government sees little difference in
their official minimum wage.

To sum, indexing the minimum
wage is a simple and efficient way to
guarantee that people meet living costs.

 

 

|\DDAYMA%-I7,ZI5

“I ’m so overexposed, I ’m making Paris Hilton look

like a recluse.”

-QUO'|'EOFTHEWEEKB:nnkomma

THERING-TUMPHI 07

Response to claim of W&L’s title as “Best School”

Dear Editor,

This letter is in response to the
opinion article “W&L is the Best School
in the Country” in your last issue. It is not
meant to take on the “challenge,” because
even without the author's calling for
challenge, my reaction to the article would
still be the same. Nor is it meant to offend
anybody because I take the opinion article
to come from good intentions despite its
ﬂaws.

First of all, I’d like to make one
distinction. It is not all clear to me whether
the article is supposed to be more of a joke
or a serious opinion piece. From past
experiences of reading the two school
newspapers, I know I have some problems
distinguishing between the two types of
articles. It’s probably just me. (Or maybe
not—for otherwise, another author
wouldn’t have to stress in parentheses that
“I’m not creative enough to make this stuff
up” in his opinion article in the last issue
of the Trident.)

If it is indeed a joke, my discussion
about the article would end here. But it’s
curious why jokes need to be published
“by the students and for the students” of
W&L, a school that boasts one of the best

undergraduate journalism programs in the
country. If the demand for them is
overwhelming, maybe the paper can
respond by creating a new section called
Entertainment, or more elegantly, Style.

However, the author seems to have
taken a lot of effort in research and
comparison to form his opinions. Calling
it a joke, then, might be a complete insult
to his work, and possibly, to the school as
well.

Granted that’s the case, please allow
me to be a little more serious here.No
doubt W&L is a wonderful school. But
saying it is the best school without solid,
intellectually substantial evidence, and for
us (the very people who, to a large extent
deﬁne what the school is) to say that, don’t
seem to lend very strong support to the
claim.

But what’s wrong with the article’s
evidence, which the author painstakingly
gathered from those not-too-inspiring
visits to the eight colleges around Virginia
and North Carolina?His single most
important criterion for judging schools
appears to be, interestingly, the existence/
quality of PARTY (or in its daytime
version, “out-and-about-nessf’). At Mary

Baldwin, only “one group of girls” was
outside at “cocktail hour.” At University
of Richmond, the author and friends found
something that “resembled a party,” but
only after driving around the campus “for
a long time.”

Finally, a party with the “potential”
to be fun was found at William and Mary,
but sadly enough, the potential didn’t
become actual due to the omnipresence of
university security. Only when this
criterion alone couldn’t rule out a school’s
chance of beating W&L did the author
employ a second criterion: academics.
This was how Elon University was
defeated.

The author, with no exception,
clearly knows it is not a very sensible move
to compare schools based primarily on
their party scenes. I must have misread him
by saying party scene is his “single most
important criterion,” for what really
concerns him is the sense of community.

He may seem to focus a lot on
“party-ness”, but it’s just his way of
coming to understand something deeper,
more significant about the schools, which
is reﬂected in the party-ness. But how
exactly does having parties or being out

Law student protests recruitment bias against military

Dear Editors,

I am writing as a student deeply
concerned with the university’s policy on
military recruiting on campus. As a second
year law student interviewing with Army
JAG last year, I was disgusted by the lack
of respect the school showed to its students
and the Army recruiter by allowing anti-
military signs and a small gay rights protest
to go on right in front the interview room.
This lack of respect hurt not only W&L
students trying to get jobs in the military,
but also brought disrespect to the law
school by allowing an employer to be
Heated like that. .

If this disrespect was not enough, I
am now aware that the Law School would
like to ban or restrict the Judge Advocate
General corps from recruiting on campus
if it was not faced with the loss of federal
funds. Specifically, it is Law School
policy that any employer, who
discriminates on the basis of sex, age, race,
religion, national origin, handicap or
disability, or sexual orientation, may not
recruit on campus. The policy has an
exception for the military due to the
potential loss of funding to the University
that would result from the Solomon
Amendment (a federal law which threatens
to take away federal funding from
universities that ban the military). In other
words, if the university had its way and

would not lose federal funding, it would
ban or otherwise restrict the ability of the
military to recruit on campus, because of
its disapproval of the military’s rule
against gay service people. A recent
decision made this a realistic possibility
by holding the Solomon Amendment
unconstitutional, at least in the Third
Circuit.

Regardless of the merits of this
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy, I think it
is outrageous that this university, founded
by Generals Washington and Lee, would
even consider banning the military from
recruiting, especially while our nation is
at war. While Irespect the valid concerns
many people have with “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell,” registering disapproval in this
manner disrespects students who seek to
serve their country, and brings dishonor
to the institution as a whole. I do not
criticize administration ofﬁcials who have
good intentions of protecting gay students,
just the way they are going about it. A
ban or limit on military recruiting at W&L
will not have any effect of changing the
military’s policy, and will only hurt W&L
students who are interested in serving their
country. «

As a result, I suggest that the La
School revise its anti-discrimination policy
from one of forced toleration of the
military to open acceptance. Instead of

the non-discrimination policy saying that
the Law School allows the military to
recruit because of the loss of federal
funding, the policy should welcome
rriilitary recruiting, out of respect for the
value of military service, and the hundreds
of W&L students and Alumni who gave
their lives in the military. In addition, the
school should strictly enforce its policy of
respect for all employers who interview
on campus, not only those who it
politically agrees with. This means that it
should actively ban protests from
interview areas. With these changes, the
university would remain free to register
its disapproval of homosexual
discrimination in other ways, possibly by
writing to Congress or acting as an amicus
in cases that challenge “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell.”

Most importantly, the hundreds of
W&L students and Alums whose names
are listed on the bronze plaques at the front
of the university deserve nothing less than
full respect for the military in which they
gave their lives, and the current policy of
the Law School, which treats the 
with disdain, demonstrates something
much less.

Sincerely,
Christopher L. Swain
Law 2005

of dorms/library relate to the sense of
community?How is it that “the student
body [at the University of Richmond]
lacks a schoo1—wide community” simply
because their parties only have ten to
twenty people usually of the same sex?

And even more peculiar, how does
William and Mary, where part_ies are
spoiled by university security, become not
only a “closed community,” but worse, a
community “which does not understand
how to share ideas in an open and
productive forum?”

Does this imply only parties, and
only good parties, provide “an open and
productive forum?” Is that why W&L is
“open to new people, experiences, and
ideas,” as the author claims? I sincerely
hope not.

Or maybe it’s not about community,
but about having fun. This too is abig part
of college life. But it's altogether another
question as to what constitutes a “fun”
college life.

Would it be too narrow a definition
for fun, all the fun, to be equated to
parties? I wonder what the whole array of
student organizations on campus is for.

As to the other merits of W&L

Dear Editor,

This is a response to the article
about the student housing changes.

After reading the recent Ring-
Tum Phi article about the proposed
changes in student housing, I decided
to explore the strategic plan website to
learn more about the school’s plan for
the future. I think that it is very
important that the plan be thoroughly
discussed with the student body,
especially because any changes in
student housing will affect the students
more directly than any other changes.
In my opinion, the student housing
situation as it is right now is perfect.
During freshman year, the new students
make friends and bond as a class by
living together in the dorms. Dorm life
is unique and essential to the freshman
year experience. However, once
freshman year is over, students look
forward to something new: the
experience and privilege of living in
Greek housing. Living is Greek
housing is a vital part of sophomore
year because it allows the new
members of each organization to grow
closer to their pledge classes by living
together. Currently, I am living in the
sorority house with my fellow
sophomore pledge sisters, and it has
allowed my to get to know all of them
better. We have grown so close as a

Phi Opinions

Got something
on your mind?
“The Opinions
section of the
Ring—tum Phi is
currently ac-
cepting re-
quests to join
the op / ed staff.
A E-mail
phi@wlu.edu

 

mentioned brieﬂy by the author toward
the end, I have no violent objections. I
would certainly be thrilled if they point
to one and only conclusion, W&L is
the best college in the country. But they
don’t.

But why am I so reluctant to
accept the conclusion, since I too go
to W&L and thus would be all too glad
upon hearing something like that, even
though it is very unlikely to be true?

As I said in the beginning, the
truly best school wouldn’t allow its
students to be consumed by conceit and
ignorance. This is not how W&L can
strive for the best.

Nevertheless, the article does
seem to prove something about the
school. How about the best party
school? (True, we are no. 2 in the
Princeton Review ranking. But I think
we qualify for “the best party school
in the positive sense,” for

“‘maintain[ing] a balance which is

unprecedented at other schools.”)

Sincerely,
Yujia Song ‘07

2 1.‘
\‘7

Housing change reaction

pledge class and have made friendships
that will carry us through the rest of
our time here at W&L. After
sophomore year, Juniors and Seniors
look forward to living independently
in off campus houses with friends of
their own choosing. The experience
of searching for a house, signing a
lease, and paying monthly rent teaches
life skills and allows upperclassmen to
have the independence of living on
their own, just like it will be in the real
world. Further, Juniors and Seniors are
old enough and responsible enough to
live independently in houses of their
own choosing, and this is a privilege
they deserve. Students who are 21 and
22 years old are adults and have the
right to live wherever they want to live.
Forcing upperclassmen to live in Greek
housing or in “off campus learning
centers” will create resentment, and
living in Greek housing will become a
burden instead of a privilege. I really
hope that the administration not ruin
one of the most important aspects of
life at this school and of college life in
general. To those in charge of this
strategic plan—please make sure that

I the opinions of the students are heard

and carefully considered before any
changes are implemented.
Sincerely,
Callie Ellis
Class of 2007

  $450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUAIS $1, 000-
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call TODAY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with Carrpusﬁuridraiser.
Contact CampusFundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

yauﬁndit.

W0 hnvu

 

(metnmg scaimtiorxs. dmrgnag Hues.
summancnmpjons

 _301' the best sutnrrier at your
ltlte‘? Easter Saul» Virigiztia can harp
We are cmnnutted to
helping people with_d:tsabd111:lea gain
greater  .
dedicated team. this Innnrner at C-'an'rp
Euntocr Son]: Virginia in Graig County.
job up-onizngs tor

uoruriaaloru an-Ki

Join our

program lander-n

nqunlicu, hornnbauk riding, nunsic,

Roam,

C

Ind nulnry provldnd. ‘
irutocrrnaticn. contact Deborah Dueirk at
<:Ire1u.exJnﬁ'va.eastea.-aaaJa.cae»m or at
(540) 864-5150. Vial: our website to
learn hovwycu can make aditlierernce.
www.v’a..enaI:ec'sea1c.c¢n:

Pair

TRUNK SHOW
TRUNK SHOW
featuring
Alice Crotwell’s
RIBBON BELTS, SHAWLS,

and

REALLY COOL
Knit Flip Flops
door prizes
Saturday, March 12
lpm-5pm

at

TemptMe,Inc
20 West Washington St.

Karen Hite
'  -~ _  Registrar‘s Office
" ""Washirrgten«and_I_,ee7 University
Early-Fielding G06, 3‘i:‘ee+we._
Lexington, VA, 24450 

Phone 540-458-8451 Fax 540-458-8045 khite@wlu.edu

 

  

 

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

NKIDAY,MARCH7,ZIB

 

word

 

H

 

I\

-I miss Pi Phi’s army men on the front
lawn.

-Every pledge has to get every active
to engage in half an hour of cuddling.

-The sorority agenda for Saturday:
Rush Workshop #1!

'Hell Week suggestion from the Phi
Staff: Make your pledges work for the
Phi.

-Have the pledges reenact scenes from
Monty Python movies in the Commons
between classes.

IMake them pledge PIKA for a week.
That would be awful.

-Worst Hell Week ever: Being locked
in a room with Ieb, Worthy and
Walotsky.

-Is Dean Dawn going to play
basketball outside the coop this year?

-I heart sorority pledgeship.

-Have your pledges strip for Chi-
O...oh wait...that happened in week
seven.

-Make the pledges attend every
lecture brought to campus this week
by all the organizations.

-PLEASE PLEASE have your
pledges serenade the sorority houses
this week!

-I’d rather peel my toe nails off
one-by-one-by-one than go through
hell week.

-One week to go!

 -Hell Week is a breeze. It’s totally

overrated.
-Make me eat in Evans again.
NextIime’stopic:

Strategic Planning,
vvhat’s up with that?

Drunk

Dial

with caution

Play sport of champions responsibly

Bynugmout
Thai-‘sharmn

Cavemen escaped it. Even college
kids in the 80s never witnessed its
awesome power. But for the current crop
of college kids, such as you and me, it is
both a privilege and a danger that we must
approach carefully. When handled
appropriately, it can be as beautiful as a
magnificent sunset. And when handled
poorly, it can be as vicious and damaging
as a bad episode of “When Animals
Attack.” What is this awesome
responsibility that you and I posses?

Drunk Dialing. When cell phones
and a signiﬁcant amount of alcohol mix,
the results are fantastic. In past years
drunk phone calls had to be made from a
house phone and were a lot less
convenient, but with the spread of cell
phones, your ex-girlfriend who left you
“because of her, not you” is just a few
button pushes away (speed dial if you’re
a champ about it). Remember the guy who
cheated on you and forgot about you a
week later? After a few shots of ID is a
great time to call him and remind him
about who you are and how much he
sucks. Really, let it all out, because while
it may be painful and uncomfortable for
him, you will have no recollection of this
awkward conversation the next morning.
But beyond just calling people you really
want to give a piece of your mind to, there
are even ﬁner opportunities.

You know that point in your
relationship where you clearly are
becoming something with somebody but
you have to play your cards right to be sure
not to screw it up? Now is the time to get
blasted and give them a call. Not so much
because it’s the smart thing t9_do, but the

right thing to do. Sure, you may beginto ‘

tell them how long you have thought they
were hot and how you just are pretending
to like their friends to get to chill with
them, but there is an honesty there that
could never be achieved between two
sober people trying to carefully maneuver

~ '_ their way into a relationship. And much
’- like children can blame the missing

cookies on their invisible friend, the
next morning you can blame all of that
on the bottle. And here is the true
wonder of it all: if the next morning
they still want to hang out with you,
you can feel completely comfortable
that they understand your intentions
with them. Except the part about
getting a dog together...that part was
just weird and a drunken rambling that
made no sense.

Here is the danger of drunk
dialing that sadly strikes all of us at
some point: drunk dialing people who
you actually don’t want to hook up with
but have convinced yourself that you
do because you know you can. It’s a
vicious drawback to DDing, and you
can be sure that your friends will never
let you live it down. This is perhaps
the most vicious and, sadly enough,
common type of Drunk Dialing.
Treatment includes using the buddy
system (girls, you know when she
shouldn’t be talking to that guy, so
don’t let her call him...unless its
me...then just let it slide...just
kidding), deleting numbers from your
cell phone, or even just giving your
phone away when you feel the urge to
call that girl who would be incredible
so long as the lights are off and no one
ever ﬁnds out. In the end, you have to
ﬁght to keep your self-respect as you
keep drinking.

I write the DD article for this
week because I believe that having just
ﬁnished registration we are turning our
eyes to the glorious Spring Term.
Although Drunk Dialing is a sport that
is played year long, it certainly has a
season in which it reigns supreme.
Spring is this season. Because its warm
and life is great, it can be a recipe for
either disaster or glory. So let us all
enjoy the privilege and responsibility
that comes with a gin bucket and a cell
phone. But remember, a drunken
marriage proposal to that cute girl in
your Bio class can be as painful to
watch as a raccoon stuck in a glove
compartment on “When Animals
Attack 6.”

 

Public urination, ﬂip ﬂops
top Potato Man’s stupid list

Bylvlashannue
Ptmbll/H1

I’ve done some pretty stupid things
in my day. Some things were done under
the inﬂuence of alcohol, others under the
inﬂuence of girls and the rest under the
inﬂuence of the superego.

But I have recently seen some very
stupid things done in the world, and in
order to make myself feel smarter and
more mature, I am going to list off the
stupidest things that I have recently seen
done.

1 — There have been many times that
I have woken up on a beautiful Saturday
morning and asked myself what I wanted
to do that day. Never has my answer been,
“I should get ripped and urinate in the
middle of the downtown parade.” But, to
each his own, I suppose. I hope you got
out of that sex offender charge, cause that
would have made your life a little less
worth living.

2 — I know wearing ﬂip ﬂops is a
W&L pastime. but when you are walking
around in ﬂip ﬂops in 6 inches of snow,

I know wearing ﬂip ﬂops is a W&L pastime, but
when you are walking around in ﬂip ﬂops in 6
inches of snow, you look like a tool. At least I
haven’t seen anyone in all out spring term dress

yet.

you look like a tool. At least I haven’t
seen anyone in spring term dress yet.

3 — Some freshmen are actually
looking forward to Hell Week. This is a
very stupid idea. Imagine the worst week
of your life, and then plan on it being nine
times as bad. You may look back on it
and say it was fun, but don’t ever say that
you are looking forward to it. It just makes
upperclassmen think of more stuff to make
you do.

4 — Going into an airport restroom
where there are numerous open urinals,
and using the one next to me. This is weird
enough, but then add it to the fact that the
guy then proceeded to try to talk to me
about where I was headed and who I was

Long live Kris

king‘

‘|'helVil<andCheeseGiI1

Today, I announce it to the world: I
believe in the power of the sippy cup. I
am not alone in my adoration of a beverage
container so vaunted and so superior that
the beer mug and the frat cup are left to
cower in Natty Light. There are many
worshippers out there, on the fringes of
society now perhaps, but one day, we will
rise up and work together to promote the
idolatry of our god. Hey, weirder things
have cult followings. for example, The
Grateful Dead.

I haven’t always seen the way. I was
once misled by the variety of drink
containers on the consumer market. But
Justine and Brittany rose out of the ranks
to be my spiritual leaders. And now that I
have seen the light, I can never turn back
to the dark ways.

Why is the sippy cup worthy of so
much praise?

First of all, the sippy cup is small
and portable. It fits nicely in an oversized
coat pocket for easy transport. But it can
still hold a respectable amount of H20
(cough, cough).

Secondly, if you’re a klutz like me,
the sippy cup is there to save the day.
Never again will you spill orange juice
(cough, cough) all over your white t—shirt.

the sipp

The sippy cup is also cheap. I tend
to lose things. (Check campus notices on
Thursday and Saturday mornings for more
of my carefully crafted prose.) If you
misplace a good flask, you lose a
signiﬁcant investment. If you lose a sippy
cup, why, only one trip to Wal—Mart and
your collection of drink containers is as
good as new.

Plus, unlike the frat cup, which
comes only in standard hues, - clear, blue,
and red— the sippy cup is sold in a wide
variety of colors. Why, you can even match
your outﬁt to your sippy cup! (And be a
tool, but I don’t judge...)

But, frankly, the best part about the
sippy cup is its ability to invigorate dead
conversations or to spark up a little
chitchat. The conversations tend to follow
a given format:

Drunken Girl: “Wait, is that a sippy
cup?”

Me: “Yep.”

Drunken Girl: “That is so cool. I
need a sippy cup.” ~

Me: “Yeah. They’re great!”

Drunken Girl: “Wow! I’m so
excited. You are such a trendsetter.”

Me: “Why, thanks.”
OR
Drunken Guy: “Whoa. A sippy
cup!” .
Me: Yep.

going to see and you have a really
awkward situation.

5 — Starting to smoke. It’s a horrible
idea. It is bad for you, makes you smell,
will kill you, and makes you anti social.

6 — Quitting smoking is even more
stupid. Nobody likes a quitter. Do you
think Michael Jordan ever wanted to quit
playing basketball? Sure he did. But he
knew that quitting was wrong, so he made
several comebacks.

7 — People that don’t watch
Desperate Housewives. It is the best show
ever, and I’m not afraid to admit it.

8 — Admitting that you watch
Desperate Housewives. You will never be
looked at the same way again.

ine’s
cup

Drunken Guy: A sippy cup!

Me: Uh huh.

Drunken Guy: Do you want to make
out with me?

Me: Not really. (Although the
answer would clearly be yes if that were
coupled with “I see you’re drinking 1%.
Is that ‘cause you think you’re fat? ‘Cause
you’re not. You could be drinking whole
if you wanted to.” Napoleon Dynamite is
so hot right now.)

Now, I know you’re feeling the
sippy cup. But if you want to join the
coolest of the cool there are a few rules
you have to follow.

The Commandments of the Sippy
Cup:

1) Thou shall have no other
preferred beverage containers.

2) Thou shall never leave the sippy
cup on the ﬂoor to be kicked and stepped
on.

3) Thou shall never let the sippy
cup remain empty on Friday and Saturday
nights.

4) Thou shall never leave
beverages to ferment in the sippy cup
overnight. (Chug it! Chug it!)

5) Thou shall never attempt to play
beiruit with sippy cups. It just doesn’t
work.

Long live my king the sippy cup.

Proctor explains showering at VMI

System has makings of a bottom—shelf romance novel a

After months
of frustration due to
the fact that the
water which comes

my room is more
mother-of-pearl
than clear, Ithought
that I would take a
moment this week
to . explain our
living conditions
within Barracks. One must understand
that the current plumbing and wiring
systems in Barracks have been virtually
unchanged since the mid-twentieth
century.

Compound that with our lack of air-
conditioning, telephones, refrigerators,
microwaves and even (gasp) televisions,
and one should not be surprised to learn

JonathanPnoctor

THEGUYNEXTDOOR

out of the faucet in ,

that, if Barracks were a prison, it would
be the third worst in the country. Oh, did
I mention the fact that we don’t even have
beds? We have a mattress (“hay”) and a
wooden cot (“rack”) which must be put
up before 7am each day (except Sunday,
thank God...guffaw guffaw).

As I write this, I am sitting in the
comforts of my home since I decided to
leave Lexington for the weekend; believe
me, dear readers, you wouldn’t believe
how much I appreciate sleeping in my own
bed.

We shower without stalls in an open
room with no less than twenty nozzles, and
in order to keep the water running, one
has to push a button approximately every
seven seconds. And thank goodness for
those buttons; they are quite adept at
keeping your mind off of the fact that, in
any other situation, our shower system

would have the makings of a bottom—shelf
romance novel. Approximately once a
semester, the plumbing in Barracks gets
so backed up that a yellowish liquid the
consistency of syrup ebbs up and sits in
our sinks for a minimum of two days
(prompting the following announcement
over the speaker system: “Attention inside
and outside of Barracks, DO NOT drink
the water”). Yummy.

This has not been an attempt to
portray cadets as “harder” because of our
living conditions, merely to explain why
we’re so damn miserable all of the time.
Remember a few weeks ago whenl spoke
of “those nights” when we go uptown in
an effort to drown our collective Pain and
Sorrow? Well, hopefully now you
understand whatl was talking about. Until
next time, neighbors: Illegitimis nil
carborundum.

 

