Arr

!37&75§

R552
\/.l07
no.1?
c/2..

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING=TUM PHI.

NINDAY, JANUARY 24, 2005

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

STUDENTS SINCE

1897

THIS ‘ISSUE “W
To our readers, subscribers, and the
Washington and Lee community,

At this point in our University’s
history, the Ring-tum Phi wanted to
communicate to our readers that we
are a paper of journalistic integrity,
dignity, respect, and Washington and
Lee history. Out of respect to our
heritage, we reverted to the original,
1897 masthead, complete with the
original slogan, “by the students and
for the students.” While we look
back with the traditional masthead,
we have also incorporated a new,
sleek contemporary design that we
think will appeal more to our readers.

In this moment of great
transformation for the Ring-tum Phi,
we also made staff changes. Chris
Lauderman is promoted to Co-Editor-
in—Chief because of Erin’s firm belief
in surrounding herself with the best
and brightest. Marshall Rule is
taking the reigns as Managing Editor
and Emily Hulen, the woman with
the redesign vision, is promoted to
Layout Editor.

We’re proud of our newspaper and
we are proud to be a part of
Washington and Lee’s written
heritage. We hope you enjoy reading
the Ring—tum Phi as much as we
enjoy producing it.

Sincerely,

Erin Julius and Chris Lauderman
Editors-in-Chief

.HOT’TICKET’

I.oseyu:n:sa1.f inthemnic
Students anticipate the wildly
popular Lip Sync competition in
which groups of students perform at
the Pavilion. Jan. 28, 9:00 p.m.,
tickets sold at the door.

2:ig1a'sR:ilJjs

“Mrs. Kemble’s Tempest” by W&L’s
own Tom Ziegler plays in the Lenfest
Center’s Johnson Theater. Wed., Jan.
26, and Thurs., Jan. 27, 8:00 p.m.

mazing Grace

Spanish film “Maria FuH of Grace”
runs with subtitles in the Commons.
Fri., Jan. 28. and Saturday, Jan. 29,
Free.

QUICK“l-IITS‘

-Freshman guys we rushed who
pledged elsewhere, don't come to
our parties, we don’t want you.

MZeQﬁd{H2l.t8: T 8.

V QUICK» POLL-

Q:l2)yO.1th:lnkthafr$IIar1
pliinnlxaedinﬁn
ad .I. Hi I.

. .3 II 131.32 I.
baﬁozethesl-'HB?

51 students polled, 26 male. 25 temale. Poll has 95% conﬁdence
in a +/- 5% margin ot_ error.

Lex heads to Washington

W&L, VMI students go to Inauguration

B_(mnJ.i1jna

EDI‘TER- IN-G-HE“

Local students braved wintery
weather, a long drive and heightened
security checks to watch the Presidential
Inaugural parade in Washington D.C last
Thursday.

Dane Boston, ’08, said he enjoyed
spending the day in Washington, “the
parade was wonderful, it was neat to see
the different parts of the country come
together,” he said. For Boston, the
importance of the day made the trip worth
it, “I felt a connection to the democratic
process, to the history of the event,” he
said. “Even if you didn’t feel a connection
to the party in power, you feel a link to the
ofﬁce of the President and the history of
the republic.”

Estimates show that 150,000 people
may have attended the parade and as many
as 265,000 attended the swearing—in
ceremony.

Camille Allen, ’07, said she was
impressed, “to see how many people
support the President, and how many
people are so proud to be a part of this.”

The Virginia Military Institute sent
its Corps of Cadets to march in President

Bush's Inaugural parade, and 50 cadets
from the VMI Regimental Band appeared
on the Fox and Friends show Thursday
morning. '

The corps marched in overcoat, full
dyke with arms.

“It was definitely a once in a
lifetime experience to march that close to
the President. It was worth all of the
practice parades and uniform inspections
by being the best looking group there,”
said Will Durkee, ’06.

Over 1000 Cadets took 26 charter
buses to Washington and spent three hours
moving through security checkpoints
before the parade.

“It was an honor to be there, it was
a lot of work and a lot of marching on cold
days but it was well worth the practice.
The Corps will remember it for the rest of
our lives,” said Aaron Childers, the
Regimental S-3 Operations Captain in
charge of writing the parade planning
orders for the Corps.

On the way back to Lexington, one
of VMI’s buses broke down while two
more were in a fender—bender on Route
66 in Fairfax. One Cadet broke his nose
in the accident and another knocked his
teeth out on his riﬂe.

“It was an honor to be there, it was a lot of work
and a lot of marching on cold days but it was
well worth the practice. The Corps will remem-
ber it for the rest of our lives.”

— Iaixnchildas, lkgiiutnls-3q:aadanCutammda:mdwdﬁmd2;a:xhplaxﬁrumh3ﬁrdnOJ;s

EMILY HULEN / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

ﬁalnimﬂayﬁaadmslnrsmmgzirhatdnnaidzﬁﬂkagntim

mBrxn1'eFw1?elps1arvavea'IE:a5 ﬂag.

SPE to instal idea frat

Bydnislaiiiieintaii

EDI’ICR~lN-Ci-{DEF

A frat from the past is recolonizing
at W&L. Sigma Phi Epsilon, which had
their charter revoked in the summer of
2003 by their national chapter, has been
approved by the Inter Fraternity Council,
the faculty, and the administration to return
to campus.

But the same SPE will not be
returning. The new SPE will share the
national chapter’s view of the future which
was not always consistently shared by the
former chapter.

“The future direction is a chapter
built around sound mind and sound body,”
Greg Barra, Director of Recruitment for
SPE, said.

Unlike other fraternities at W&L,
SPE has a program entitled the “Balanced
Man Program.” According to Barra, this
is a four-year professional development
program where men go through no new
member education.

“We want all undergrads on a
single-tiered membership,” Barra said.

He pointed out that needs of a senior
are different from needs of a freshman.
As a result of these differences, freshmen
SPEs will attend study skills sessions and
go on campus tours and seniors will learn
how to dress and prepare for a job
interview. According to Barra, these‘
workshops will radically improve the
undergraduate experience.

He emphasized that there would be
no hazing.

“There will be nothing detrimental
to lifetime development,” said Barra.
“That is the bedrock of what our chapter
is built on.”

SPE will be submitting a proposal
on April 30 that will outline their plan for
recolonization at W&L. According to
Kevin Weaver, Interim Director of Student
Activities and Greek Life, the proposal has
to be approved by SAC, the Student
Activities Committee.

Once the proposal is submitted, the

university and SPE will work on a time
for the chapter's return. The discussion
has not yet begun.

After the national headquarters
revoked SPE’s charter at W&L, many of
the members eventually found their way
to Phi Kappa Psi. Barra said that having
former SPEs on campus is not a
determinate factor for when they
recolonize.

“That’s not going to have as much
effect as our conversations with the
administration,” Barra said.

Barra said that SPE would abide by
all regulations for recruitment. As of now,
SPE has no plans of bringing in freshmen
before formal rush begins for the other
fraternities.

SPE intends to have a new chapter
development team come to Lexington to
perform one—on-one recruitment with the
campus community. Recommended
upperclassmen will become SPEs inthe
fall and help the new chapter development
team build membership in the winter.

STEVEN MAFHNOS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

Pn:ﬁas:rS:&s, aﬁiziiarp:es.iihtc£C!1<, qaealcsatdnomwxatiai.

ODK initiates

nlraaldeﬂﬂﬁ

STAFF WRITER

Large snowﬂakes coated Lee
Chapel as the 2005 ODK candidates were
initiated on Wednesday January 19.
Omicron Delta Kappa is a prestigious
society founded on the principles of
service, leadership and scholarship. The
society began at Washington and Lee in
1914. Today, ODK’s inﬂuences and ideals
have expanded to 285 active circles and
now include 226,000 members.

The tradition of excellence
continued this year with the induction of
9 law school students and 21
undergraduates. Jill Waity, the current
president of ODK, said that these students
not only contribute to the college
community but that they are “contributors
of a better society”.

Taylor Sanders, history professor
and former president of ODK, closed the
ceremony by reflecting on individuals
who, throughout the history of
Washington and Lee, have played a major
role in maintaining the university’s
success and standards for centuries. This
year’s ODK initiates, like the individuals
before them, are expected to help to
further ensure the existence of these ideals
for centuries to come.

WLD reﬁnes
its mission

ﬁrEﬁn.]ﬂ.‘l.i.B

HJl’KR- IN-G-EEF

Washington and Lee for
Dubyanell, a research group founded
by Brent Beshore, ’05, has refined its
mission as it has tackled its first issue,
the question of alcohol consumption on
campus.

The six—member Board consists
of recent alumnus K.C. Schaeffer, staff
members Burr Datz, Mimi Elrod, and
Harlan Beckley and current students
Celia Landgren and Lloyd Wilson.

Washington and Lee for
Dubyanell is currently in the research
phase for the first issue it is examining,
alcohol consumption. “We want to
ﬁnd all the information we can get our
hands on,” Beshore said. “We will then
distill that into a report, or
publication.”

Schaeffer is heading up the
research and development and said he
plans to utilize surveys, both of
Washington and Lee’s campus and
others. To study other schools,
Schaeffer said the coalition will, “use
contacts through students we already
know.”

Once the coalition’s report is
released, “anybody who cares can look
at the information, it is not filtered
through the Administration or any other
campus groups.”

Washington and Lee for
Dubyanell will not make
recommendations for how to resolve
campus issues, but states its goal as,
“impact through information,” Beshore
said, “we want to increase
communication and get more
information out there,” he said.

“We’ll take all of the school’s
data and look at that, then conduct our
own research and studies to gauge
where we are,” Beshore said. “Then
we’ll look at what other schools have
done and fill in the gaps [of

- infoiination].”

Beshore formed the coalition
earlier this year because of,
“displeasure with the direction things
were going,” he said. “There was a
period of time earlier in the year when
there was growing miscommunication
and no one really knew what was going
on.”

Washington and Lee for
Dubyanell is independent, and not
looking for funding.

 

latch . .-

 

MGDAY,JAM!ARY 24,215

Eating disorders plague W&L

National College Health Assessment ﬁnds W&L women twice as likely to have anorexia or bulimia

Byxamerineshel
A$Sl'N\l'|'l\£VVSEDTCR

Last spring’s National College
Health Assessment reported that
Washington and Lee women “are more
likely to report having anorexia, bulimia,
or any eating disorder” than the national
average, with women reporting suffering
from bulimia at twice the national average
for college-age women. According to
Christy Barongan, a psychologist at
Counseling Services, this maybe linked
to the image that W&L students are forced
to accept.

“Although we cannot tell exactly
why, this school is one in which image and
appearance are important,” Barongan said.
Also, the ideas of perfection and control
that most W&L students strive for can be
a cause of eating disorders, where control

Students
call for
assault
website

Bymasnalnuie
N|PNP(3\GE]l'CFi

Due to the recent discussions of
sexual assault on campus, some students
are calling for an anti-sexual assault
website similar to the anti-hazing website
already in place.

The anti-hazing website, created
earlier in the school year, aims to curb
fraternity hazing during pledgeship.

Students can send reports of hazing
through the website, while at the same
time stay anonymous to the student body.
A proposed anti-sexual assault website
would operate in a similar way.

However, the website, like the anti-
hazing website, is being met with
pessimism. Some students argue that a
website would just lead to frivolous and
false allegations in order to get revenge
on an ex-boyfriend or friend.

Dean Watkins dismisses these fears
by saying that it is often easy to determine
the serious complaints from the hoaxes.
According to Watkins, the anti-hazing
website is working well, and they have
already received a legitimate complaint
that they are looking in to.

Another problem that the supporters
are running in to is the difficulty of
investigating a sexual crime without the
victim’s full involvement. While it is
possible to investigate someone suspected
in sexual assault and still allow the victim
to remain anonymous, it is much more
difficult.

In an informational meeting last
week with one fraternity about the school’s
new alcohol enforcement, Watkins
responded to a question regarding sexual
assault by saying, “Some victims are
scared that if they come forward, they will
have a whole fraternity hating her.”

Watkins explained that many
victims don’t come forward because they
think that if they go to the authorities, all
of the suspect’s fraternity brothers will be
mad at not only the victim, but also the
victim’s sorority or organization.

Supporters of the website say that
the website will be a remedy for this
problem. By providing a way for victims
to come forward without fully exposing
their identity, the school will, hopefully,
be able to lessen the problems of sexual
assault on campus.

Whether an anti-sexual assault
website is created or not, many students
are happy with how far Washington and
Lee has come in addressing the problem.

“I am excited to see that the
Washington and Lee community is taking
the issue of sexual assault as serious as it
is” says SJC secretary Jeb Brooks. “I am
thrilled in the progress we have made and
hope to continue this progress in the
future.”

is often the underlying problem.
According to the Eating Disorder Referral
and Information Center, “tendencies to be
perfectionistic and to set rigid standards
for oneself ”can cause the development
of an eating disorder.

Barangon also links eating disorders
to the idea that “W&L students are
especially high achieving and
perfectionistic.” Meghan Joss, a member
of the LIFE team which offers support for
those suffering from eating disorders,
agrees that “the student body has the
predisposition and temperament that are
most at risk.”

A reason that diagnosing and
treating people suffering from eating
disorders can be difficult is not because
of resources offered on campus and
elsewhere, but instead, the fact that very
few people who have eating disorders will
admit a problem to themselves or other

GRAB LIFE BY THE BALL

people. “Secrecy and denial are common
with eating disorders, and those folks with
the problem often resist diagnosis and
treatment,” said Jane Horton, Director of
Health and Counseling Services.
According to Joss, “Eating disorders and
addictions in general are cunning because
they are the diseases that tell the sufferer
they don’t actually have a problem.”
Though the assessment showed that
W&L students are more likely to develop
an eating disorder, the National College
Health Assessment did not find this as one
of W&L’s main three problems. Those
problems were “frequency of alcohol
abuse, negative impact of mental health
and social concerns (which could be linked
to eating disorders and perceptions on
campus) and sexual violence experienced
by women,” according to Jan Kaufman,
the Director of Health Promotion.
Despite the statistics showing

bulimia as a problem twice that of the
national average, the focus after the Health
Assessment has been on sexual assault
awareness on campus and the enforcement
of the alcohol policy.

The problem of eating disorders is
familiar to some students. A poster last
year in the bathrooms in the Commons
asked students who threw up to please
clean up after themselves.

Despite being overshadowed by
other issues, there are many ways on
campus for those suffering from eating
disorders to seek help, as well as those
whose friends and peers suffer.

“At W&L, we try to use a team
approach to treatment and support, using
resources in the Counseling Center, the
Student Health Center, coaches and
trainers for athletes, friends, parents, etc.,”
said Horton. Also, Overeaters Anonymous
meets on Tuesdays at 6:30 in R. E. Lee

Episcopal, though, according to Joss, it has
“an unfortrmate name since it is applicable
to people with all levels and all forms of
compulsive eating/undereating.”

National Eating Disorders
Awareness Week is February 28-March 4,
and the speaker coming on March 3 will
be a good source of information for
students who are concerned about a friend
or unsure how to approach someone with
a possible eating disorder.

Any counselor or physician in
Student Health and Counseling Services
would also be happy to talk to a student
with concerns,” said Horton.

Also, though its main focus is
sexual assault on campus, the Day of
Dialogues sponsored by Panhel next
Saturday will offer women the ability to
talk about their own concerns for W&L,
with eating disorders as one of many
subjects that can be discussed.

JON ROGERS I STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

PiKappaPhitookonthefacullyintheDodgebdlTwnnrnentﬁmlsattheWomen’sBaskeﬂadlgane|astTuesday. Theﬁndsweretuobedecidedbywinringzoutofsgimes. PiPhiwon
theﬁrstgamemdwasabouttowintheseeondgammrarmeannwmasforcedmemumrnemmoanemmmdsomewumncwldresuneplay.

Pro—choice group forms on campus

[Group plans to educate the campus about women’s health options

Bysudamniay
DENSEIJCR .

.. g N A new pro—choice group formed
Tuesday with the intent to educate the
campus aboiito women’s health options

and to support legislationaaffecting

reproductive rights.

“We need to foster both sides of
the discussion on campus,” said Caitlin
Mullen ’05, the president of Students for
Choice.

The ﬁrst meeting was a chance for
participants to air their concerns about
the student body’s attitudes towards
reproductive rights. Members expressed
worry that this university in particular
presents opposition to those rights, an
idea that is troublesome to many in light
of pending legislation to remove the
“morning-after” pill from Virginia
coilege campuses.

,“I think the opposing clubs will be able to help
educate and increase awareness in the com-—
munity so they can make a more informed
decision on where they ,stand* onthis issue.”

-— AiexaMoina:ers,snidmtsforl£ePresR1em

The move by the legislature is
seen by pro-choice advocates as an
attempt to blur the line between abortion
and contraception.

Opportunities for participation in
Students for Choice include scheduled
demonstrations on important dates, such
as the anniversary of Roe v. Wade last
Saturday.

The group will also be taking a bus

to Richmond Feb. 3 for Virginia Pro-
Choice Lobby Day, a chance for
concerned citizens to show their support
for womerfs rights and to speak with
legislative aides. ,

Students for Choice willwork in
collaboration with Planned Parenthood »
of Blue Ridge to achieve its objectives.
While it is a student-um group, members
include professors and physicians as ‘well

as Lexington.resideirts.~ ‘It  i
as a counterpartto the Students for Life , C
group, which regularly sponsors
speakers such as the national‘ president E
of Feminists for Life. , if a r i
“I think the opposing cinbs wiil
be able to heip educate andiinczease
awareness in the community so theyocan .
make a more informed decisionion

owhetegthey stand on this issue,” said ‘ A

Studenfsiorelsifelpresident Aiexa
MonteveIis"06. A  .,w-  .

Mulien agrees. “I would love to 
getadebatc going. The reason I.st‘artec_i
this is because [Students for .
this discussion.”  E 3351

No collaboration between
Students for Life and lstudents for .
Choice has  butivlotitevelis
andMu}len hope to ayoid  » ~
rhetoric” . and “offensive, lhurtfui
IaI18l'1age.”< ’  =1  . ‘

4

 

%

A

MGDAY, JAMJARY 24, Z15

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

SD01 lS

 

t

THIS WEEK

TUESDAY, JAN.25
-Womens’ Basketball at Emory and _
Henry, 7:00

 Y,JAN%

-Mens’ Basketball at Emory and
Henry, 7:00

-Wrestling at Southern Virginia, 7:00

TFIFSDAY, JAN.27
I Open

FRDAY, JAN.28
-Track at Christopher Newport, TBA

SATURDAY, JAN3

-Mens’ Swimming at Hopkins, 10:00
IWrestling at Apprentice, 10:00
-Womens’ Basketball vs. Roanoke,
4:00

.Womens’ Swimming at Marymount,
5:00

-Mens’ Basketball vs. Roanoke, 7:00
'Track at Christopher Newport, TBA

SLNDAY, JANJI)
I Open

wresuingatlvlooanielouad
Ca1oe||ed(1l21)

The wrestling team’s meet at the
McDaniel Quad against Ursinus and
McDaniel scheduled for Saturday,

January 22 had been cancelled. The
meet will not be rescheduled.

Sw'I'rIn'l1gSpliIs MeetAgainst
Gt‘-'WSbUI9(1/15)

The men’s and women’s swimming
teams were both in action against
Gettysburg on Saturday afternoon at
Twombley Pool. The men improved

A to 5-1 with a 1'41"-64 victory, while
'3 the women dropped to 7-5 with a

141-64 defeat to the Bullets.

FormerGeneralTauenin MLL
DraltbyBayhawks(1l21)

Former men’s lacrosse player Tommy
Melanson ’03 was taken in the Major
League Lacrosse Supplemental Draft
which was held at the US Lacrosse
Convention last weekend in
Philadelphia, Pa.

TwoGenerdsNa'nedIONSCAA
Scho|aAll-Amen'caTeam(1/17)
The 2004 NSCAA/Adidas East
Region Men’s Soccer Scholar All-
America Team was recently
armounced and Washington and Lee
had two players represented on the
team. Senior defender Peter Miller
(Towson, Md./Baltirnore Lutheran)
earned second team accolades, while
senior midﬁelder Justin Mygatt
(Marietta, Ga./Woodward Academy)
garnered honorable mention status.

Womens’ basketball d

BySaahBloom
SENG7iSPCF{TSWFITER

The stands were ﬁlled Friday night
for the Washington and Lee Women’s
basketball game at Southern Virginia
University. The wildly supportive away
crowd didn’t faze the Generals, however.
After a heartbreaking loss to ODAC rival
Bridgewater on Tuesday (64-61), the
Generals played an intense game,
defeating SVU 71-55.

Emotions ran hot on Tuesday as the
Generals took on rival Bridgewater. An
early ﬁve point lead quickly turned to a
12 point disadvantage for the Generals in
the first half. The Eagles returned with a
strong start to the second half, but the
Generals gathered strength and played
stronger, catching the Eagles when
freshman Kristen Krouchick scored on a
lay-up, tying the game 59-59 with a minute
remaining on the clock.

In a tight final minute of play, the
Eagles scored a three-point basket. W&L
responded with a lay-up by sophomore
Jessica Hunsinger, making the score 62-
61 with 17 seconds left in the game.
Marsha Kinder of Bridgewater sank two
free throws, giving the Eagles a stronger
edge. The Generals made a ﬁnal attempt
to again match the score, but junior Louisa
Feve’s three-point attempt fell short just
as the buzzer sounded to end the game.

“The loss against Bridgewater was
deﬁnitely a tough loss,” Said Krouchick.
“It’s hard to bounce back from a loss like
that, but we just had to come out that much
harder against Southern Virginia.”

The Generals did bounce back in the
SVU game. Husinger and Feve each
recorded double-digit scores in two stat
categories and claimed season-high
records in scores to lead the team to
victory.

The game started out a little rough,
with the Generals missing their ﬁrst eight
shots and trailing SVU early in the game.
But the women quickly found their groove
and outscored the Knights, entering the
half with a score of 31-24 in the Generals
favor.

In an eerie twist, the Knights came
back to tie the game with only 16 minutes
left in the game. Familiar with this
situation, the Generals reclaimed the lead
with a pair of free throws by Feve. From
this point on, the Generals never let the
Knights within a ten point cushion.

Freshmen Krouchick and Amanda
Kane led the Generals in both scoring and
steals. Despite being new to the team, the
freshmen feel prepared for the intensity
of season-play thanks to the
upperclassmen.

“The upperclassmen give good
advice in some game time situations from
their own experiences,” said Kane.
“They’ve just been really supportive and
have really helped my transition to college
basketball,” added Krouchick.

The win over SVU bumped the
General’s win record above the win total
for last season.

“We are definitely a stronger team
this year,” commented Feve.

“Our women’s basketball program
is starting to establish ourselves as a

competitor in the ODAC” Bethany
Darmelly added. “We are able to compete
with the top teams and hopefully we will
be able to pull out some wins against some

ominates

CORBIN BLACKFORD / PHOTO EDITOR

PIayersoonvergea'oundthegoalduringtheGeneral’swinoverSVU.

of these top teams as the regular season
winds down. . .I think we will be expecting
to advance in the ODAC tournament this

17

year.

NCAA already getting exciting

Bymashalnule
|\AN\lN3\GEJ'|'O?

It may only be January, but it sure
feels like March Madness. In this week
alone college basketball has seen upsets,
game winners, and tough losses. And in
a much too early attempt to get in the mood

for the Final Four, I am going to recap the »

week of College Hoops for you by letting
you in on all the big stories of the biggest
four games of the weekend.
Kansas vs. Villanova — On College
Garneday Saturday morning Digger said
that Villanova was going to beat Kansas.
I laughed and realized that the man is
finally off his rocker. After going to
breakfast during the first half, I came back
to see that Villanova did not just win, they
blew out the Jayhawks. It’s only ﬁtting
that Villanova is the team that stopped the
Jayhawks undefeated streak. It’s hard to
call the Wildcats a Cinderella team, but
that’s exactly the word that comes to mind

when watching the fans storm the court.

Pitt vs. UCONN— Ifthere has ever
been one team besides UNC that I love to
see lose it is UCONN. It looked as if
Connecticut had the game in hand, but the
second half belonged to Pitt. Chevon
Troutrnan had 4 points in the first half, and
ﬁnished with 29. Two losses in two weeks
for the Huskies. UCONN seems to be
having just a little bit of trouble in
conference play, which is understandable
considering the talent in the Big East.
Unfortunately for Husky haters,
UCONN’s time always comes in March,
and come tournament time, they will be
ready to try to repeat.

GA Tech vs. VATech — Sometimes
you get lucky, sometimes you get unlucky.
Consider Virginia Tech VERY lucky. Up
by one with a few ticks left, Isma’il
Muhammad missed both free throws and
his teammates missed two easy put backs.

Georgia Tech is not quite the same team
as they were last year. Can you say
overrated? The Yellow Jackets have

dropped three straight, and four of their
last six games. Things aren’t likely to
change this week either when they play
Wake Forest.

LSU vs. Kentucky — Kentucky
blew out LSU. LSU isn’t even a
competitive team. Why did I throw this
game in you ask? Because none of the
other games really matter. Kentucky is
going to win it all. They got (arguably)
the best freshmen class this year with Joe
Crawford and Randolph Morris. But these
guys are just for show. The real power in
the Wildcat lineup lies in Chuck Hayes and
Patrick Sparks. If you haven’t seen Panick
Sparks play you haven’t lived. He single
handedly brought the Cats back from a
major deﬁcit against Louisville earlier in
the season. The gniy makes plays at both
ends of the court and will lead Kentucky
to its first championship since the glory
days of Padgett, Magloire, and Turner in
1998.

Laugh now, but I will be the one
laughing come tournament time.

CORBIN BLACKFORD / PHOTO EDITOR

AGeneral |ooksforapassduringtheteam’s Iosstowrginiawesleyan.

 

Mens’ basketball falls to
Virginia Wesleyan 63-53

Four Generals reached double digits
as teams’ record falls to 2-15

Sporsﬁelease

SPO3TSN:U'-WIATKN

Sophomore forward Brandon Adair
(Virginia Beach, Va./Princess Anne) tallied
23 points and eight rebounds to lift
Virginia Wesleyan to a 63-53 win over
Washington and Lee in ODAC men’s
basketball action on Saturday afternoon at
the Warner Center.

The Marlins (13-4, 7-4) led 36-24
at the break, but saw the Generals slice
the advantage to just ﬁve points (39-34)
with 14 minutes remaining in the game.

VWC responded with a 9-0 spurt
over the next 3:52 to go up 48-34 with
10:08 left.

W&L slowly chipped away at the
lead, cutting it to 55-50 at the 1:53 mark,
but the Marlins sealed the game at the foul
line in the ﬁnal minute.

Virginia Wesleyan held a 40-22

advantage in rebounding, including
grabbing 15 offensive rebounds.

W&L (2-15, 0-10) placed four
players in double ﬁgures led by freshman
forward Greg Bienemann (Chathain, N .J ./
Chatharn), who totaled 15 points on 5-of-
5 shooting from the field. Sophomore
guard Chris Halkitis (New Port Richey,
Fla./Ridgewood) notched 14 points, ﬁve
rebounds and four assists, while senior
guard Mike Stuart (Warrenton, Va./
Fauquier) and freshman guard John
Mumper (Richmond, Va./Douglas
Freeman) added 10 points each.

For Virginia Wesleyan, sophomore
forward Marcus Riley (Olney, Va./
N andua) supplemented Adair’s effort with
10 points. Junior guard Thomas Sumpter
(Hampton, Va./Bethel) chipped in with
eight points, six rebounds and ﬁve assists.

Washington and Lee returns to
action on Sunday as .-it hosts Randolph-
Macon for a 2:00 pm contest.

Mens’ lax
ranked
eighth

Sporlsﬁelewe

 TGl

BALTIMORE, Md. -
Lacrosse Magazine released its
Division I, II and III preseason polls
on Wednesday afternoon and
Washington and Lee was among
those cited.

The W&L men’s lacrosse team
is ranked eighth overall in voting
conducted by the magazine staff,
collegiate coaches and media
members. i

Two-time defending national
champion Salisbury sits atop the poll
and is followed by last season’s
runner-up, Nazareth. Middlebnry,
Cortland, Washington College,

‘ Gettysburg, Ithaca, W&L, Tufts and —
Hampden-Sydney round out the
preseason Top 10. ODAC rivals
Roanoke and Lyncliburg rank 1161
and 12th, respectively. V

W&L returns ﬁve starters and
31 iettcrwinners from last season’s
squad which posted a 14-4 overall
record, won the ODAC
Championship, and advanced to the
NCAA Quarterfinals. I-Ieadlining the
returnees is senior attackman Gavin
Molinelli (Northport, N.Y./
Northport), a Preseason Honorable
Mention All-America selection.

' Washington and Lee opens its
2005 campaign with a game at
Washington College on Sat., Feb. 26
at 1:30 pm.’ '

   

 

hetp|eadthisyear’sean1paigi.

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

NUDAY,JAMJARY24,ZXJ5

artsslife

 

BOOK REVIEW

Pledged: The
Secret Life of

Sororities
Srat Girl claims
book belongs
withreality TV

ByNathPn'nz
STAFFWHITE?

Often the number one reason not to
read a book is that it has appeared on the
New York Times Bestseller List. The
Masses like it? Something must be wrong
with it. Pledged: The Secret Life of
Sororities, by Alexandra Robbins, is a
perfect example of such a book. I would
place it in the genre of “Real World” and
“Who Wants to Marry My Dad”, more than
in any relevant literary or journalistic one.

Robbins is out to prove that
sororities are groups within which
intelligent, confident women turn into
insecure clones, whose extremely bad
behavior is a result of their sorority
identity. Her stories hold the same interest
that the worst shows on MTV do.

She speaks of rampant eating
disorders, affairs with professors and
abusive hazing as if they were the norm.
She also glamorizes these things she
claims to abhor by speaking of how
privileged all these girls are. She is not
above dropping brand names either.

Thus, she subtly undermines her
argument by equating all the evil in these
sororities with their (superficial)
desirability. These girls aren’t just
throwing up; they’re throwing up while
wearing designer sunglasses. Well, now I
want to read about them!

For obvious reasons, no sorority
knowingly allowed her to chronicle their
secret rituals and behavior of its members.
So Ms. Robbins took the honorable route:
She went undercover and joined sororities
while secretly recording all that took place
in the houses she stayed in, including
secret rituals!

Unfortunately, she bases all her
theories on three sororities, all seemingly
similar in the type of girls they accept. She
also picked only a few girls from each
sorority, whose stories she tells in full. It
is up to the reader to assume whether these
girls are representative of the whole or not.

She claims to have picked three
different sororities. (One is athletic, one
is more social.) However, these girls all
seem to have similar value systems,
interests, even ethnic and social
backgrounds.

The one minority student she
follows is a partial pariah in her own
sorority because of her background. I
claim that she could have found a more
diverse mix in the five rather similar
sororities on our own campus.

This sampling is what she bases her
“serious” journalism on. However, her
publisher gives her away. The cover of her
book is demonstrative of exactly the
audience she is looking for.

The cover shows three very
attractive girls, looking exactly the same,
but with their distinctive features cut off.
Is she hoping the fact that she reports on
three very similar girls will escape our
notice? Or is she trying to attract male
readers with the nubile bodies on the
cover?

As a parting insult to the reader who
is in a sorority, she gives away secrets that
are central to almost every sorority. She
disclosespatts of ritual and gives away
secret passwords. What can be the value
of that? In doing this, she undermines her
own work.

She feeds sensational, albeit useless
information to the vicarious reader. Isn’t
the idea of journalistic integrity to respect
the subject and present only pertinent,
relevant information?

Don’t send her to Iraq!(or even a
real interview for that matter.)Perhaps she
feels going undercover means she is above
a century of tradition, religious and moral
values, and the secrecy that is integral to
all sororities.

Last question: why do none of these
aspects come up in her book? Oh that’s
right. She‘s not about serious information,
So if you’re a serious or semi-serious,
reader: skip this book!

Bysammm-ay

l\E\/VSEJTOFI

JulimLedfordreadytoperformhisactIastFridaynig1tat

OPEN STAGE 2005

Students take to the stage inithe’ first annual event

Students entertained Lenfest
audiences Friday with Open Stage,
a series of monologues, dances, and
musical selections ranging from
original compositions to popular
musicals such as Aida and The
Phantom of the Opera.

Members of the W&L
community nearly filled Johnson
Theater, much to the surprise and
gratification of the performers. “I
didn’t expect so many people to
come out on a Friday night,” said
Julian Ledford ‘06, who gave two

  

vocal performances.

The show’s style resembled
a talent ‘show with short
performances following one after
another. Auditions were held only
one week before the event itself,
drawing more people with its low
time commitment.

Some of the performers,
like Lisa Zevorich ’{}7, were
returning veterans from the
similar Student Showcase held in
December. Zevorich, who was
involved in theater in high school,
returned to it only this year. After
opportunities at Open Stage and
Student Showcase to sing pieces

Lenfest-

   

JOHN ROG_EF!S/ AFF Pnoroemenen

from Wicked and other works, she’s
hooked once more.

“My favorite type of theater is
musical theater,” Zevorich said.

As a member of Chamber
Singers, General Admission, and
Joyful Noise, Ledford was drawn to
the musical aspect of Open Stage as
well.

He hopes to use his tape of the
performance to apply for a summer
program specializing in opera. His
theatrical ambitions are not nearly as
lofty.

“If they_have musicals, then I
take part,” Ledford said. “But I’m
not really an actor.”

Guy Next
Door speaks

ByJontIhmPmdnr
TI-EGUYl\EXfIXX)=i

Recently, I was approached by the
engaging editor-in—chief of this fine
publication about writing a bi-weekly
column. Though grossly under—qualiﬁed,
I accepted because, let’s be honest, this is
my best opportunity to woo many feisty
Minkettes with my witty prose and biting
social commentary.

Actually, that isn’t true. . .I just need
another extracurricular activity on my
resume. Whatever the case may be, away
we go... ,

This past Thursday, the Corps
participated in the Presidential Inaugural
Parade in Washington, D.C. As a proud
member of the Vast Right-Wing
Conspiracy, I was thrilled when I heard
that the entire Corps (minus some in-
season athletic teams) would have the
opportunity to march for President Bush.

However, this initial excitement
quickly turned into modest apprehension
when the training schedule for the event
was released. Countless uniform
inspections, practice parades, and hours
of logistical planning were required if the
trip was to be a success.

Mind you, all of this was in addition
to our everyday routine: academic
demands, ROTC requirements, and
keeping Lex-Vegas’ adult beverage
establishments in the black.

As for the trip itself, overall it was
a miserable experience which I will always
remember fondly. In a few years, I will
forget about the fact that we spent fourteen
of the eighteen hours off Post sitting on a
crowded bus and recall only those thirty
seconds of a cold January day when I was
twenty feet away from the most powerful
man in the world.

When we passed the reviewing
stand, President Bush looked directly at
me and nodded, as if to say, “Yes, Jonathan
Proctor, I see you; furthermore, I approve
of your superior marching abilities.”

At least that’s what I’ll allow myself
to believe. The other detail that I may not
forget would be marching through piles
upon piles of horse (ahem)...droppings.
[How fitting, since we Keydets have
grown accustomed to getting...relieved
upon.]

In the end, everyone returned safely
(though two of our buses were involved
in an accident, only a few teeth were lost)
and hopefully we even made a few alumni
proud.

At least we were excused from
classes on Friday. . .except, we weren’t, so
that was fun. Well that about does it for
this week’s installment; until next time,
neighbors, keep on keepin’ on.

Post—rush world not exciting

Bymaychids

ITS NOTYOU, ITS ME

People always told me last
semester that oh, man, after rush, a
“whole new world opens up” to you.
That you can go to girl’s houses, and
pass the turkey baster back and forth
like normal people while you partake
in a little gourmet cooking, and stuff
like that. That suddenly you are free
to interact as you’ve always dreamed
you could. So it’s after rush. I’ve been
to girl’s houses, and it’s been fun to
interact normally, but I’ll tell you a
little secret. This “whole new world”
that I’ve entered seems to be
completely different from everybody
else’s.

You are probably one of the
1,700 that has seen that strange girl
hobbling around school, usually
carrying her crutches and looking
very angry, and you think to yourself,
“Hmm, that is odd. Normally one
uses crutches, and propels oneself
forward in space so as not to use a
hurt foot. Why, then, does this strange
girl carry them, and limp?” Well,
friend, that strange girl is none other
than yours truly. And I carry my
crutclies because neither Washington
nor Lee planned this campus with us
handicapped in mind. Now I will
acknowledge for once that it is a nice

bonus that I live on the first ﬂoor of Gaines
(the first ﬂoor bit being the bonus). I just
wish those nine hundred stairs from this
side of the street to the rest of campus (you
know, the ones you see when you stroll to
the Gym from your luxurious dormitory
of Graham-Lees, or the ones you drive past
as you laugh quietly to yourself, because
there is that strange girl hopping up the
stairs one at a time like a two year old)
had an elevator.

If you want to know the background
story, and I’m sure you’ve already heard
it, especially if you are female and you
were anywhere near me in a sorority house,
I was attacked by an inebriated boy on
New Years while I was dancing with him;
he fell forward, taking me down too. The
really nice bit is that he also hit my head
on the stone fireplace, so I was convinced
I had a concussion. Once he managed to
get off of me and stand up, and I realized
that I did not have any major brain damage,
I got up and resumed dancing (without
him). After a while I noticed a blinding
pain in my foot. So I decided to stop
dancing on it.

The perpetrator of the crime felt
marginally bad at this point and was trying

to comfort me by patting my shoulder; I
recommended that he ﬁnd some ice. So he
comes tromping back from the kitchen and
ices my foot with a bag of frozen chicken.
Seriously. Then the bag exploded, and the
raw chicken ﬂew everywhere. They found
pieces of poultry under the couch the next
day, and were very confused, but I digress.
Apparently my foot is “sprained,” (I’ve had
every possible diagnosis for this thing —
break, fracture, contusion, sprain), which,
as many people have informed me, is often
times worse than a break. Awesome. So if
you’re thinking, Golly, that girl has been
walking around with that strange limp, and
wearing a hospital boot for a long time,
just check your calendar and see if it’s been
4-6 weeks since January 1. Yeah, that’s a
long time.

In addition to my foot not being up
to par, I have contracted what is known as
“Oh, You’re Sick Too?” It could be the ﬂu,
but it could be a “ﬂu-like virus.” It doesn’t
really matter to me which it is, because I
still feel crappy, and half the school can
identify with me on this one. So the
appellation of Gaines as the “leper colony”
or “hospital” has become a self—fulﬁlling
prophecy. Perhaps I will soon become

Nothing beats real people. Not even Jude Law and
Nicole Kidman, and not even — this one is hard to
i say — Napoleon Dynamite in all his glory.
 

Siberian — because here I am, lonely as
ever, appreciating to the fullest the fact that
you’re not allowed to hang things on the
wall or interact with other people. And it
takes something MAJORLY important to
get me to leave — I am crippled AND I am
feverish, AND there’s snow (my boot has
pretty poor traction).

So for me, this “whole new world”
that opened up after rush week — it’s the
world of Staying at Home and Watching
Movies When All Your Friends Are Out
world. Don’t be misled by all the
Hollywood glitz and glarnour— yes, I come
into contact with a whole lot of celebrities
this way, and appreciate their art, and feel
more intelligent for it. But once you get
past all the pretty faces and the ﬂash of
the paparazzi cameras, there’s something
missing. I’ve been thinking about it a lot,
because I’ve had a lot of free/feverish time
lately, and as I type this on my deathbed I
think that what’s missing is good old-
fashioned human interaction. I had a grand
total of FOUR visitors and SIX phone calls
in two hours or so, and I think I got
overexcited because I just passed out
afterwards, but the point is that nothing
beats real people. Not even Jude Law and
Nicole Kidman, and not even — this one is
hard to say — Napoleon Dynamite in all
his glory. So when I’m better, and can walk
again, I will leave this land of fantasy and
wonder behind me and join the world of
Oh-Pat-says-she, and where-the-ﬂip-is-
Traveller for real this time.

i 1

 

M(NDAY, JAMJARY24, Z105

“True, we love life, not because we are used to living,
but because we are used to loving.

There is always some madness in love,
but there is also always some reason in madness.”

FFEIIID-IIEIZSCI-E

THE RING-TUM PHI ° 5

Imagine a W&L where peop e actually date

ByEniyEdwads

AFlTS&UFEEDlTOR

With approximately 44 weeks of
Washington and Lee college life behind
me, I have reached the following
conclusion: collegiate dating does not
exist. Before you write me off as a bitter,
cynical, loveless man-hater, hear me out.
What is this phenomenon that we know
as dating? It starts off in grade school.
You know, girl meets boy, girl eats lunch
with boy, girl and boy are now “girlfriend
and boyfriend.” Parents see this as an “aw
shucks, they are too cute for words” event.
Someone send me a trashcan now.

Then comes puberty and those
awkward 7“‘ and 8"‘ grade dances in which
girls stand on one side of the heinously—
decorated gymnasium and boys stand on
the other. Everyone whispers when that
solitary girl makes her way into enemy

 

territory and asks her “crush” if he wants
to dance. The two “dance,” but it is more
like two stick ﬁgures with their hands on
each other’s shoulders swaying back and
forth to the rhythm of a terrible Real
McCoy song.High School.

Not quite college, but definitely not
middle school. Senior guys prey on “fresh
meat.” Girls wear pounds of makeup to
class in hopes of_ getting that much-
coveted date to prom. You’ve got the
holding—hands, making out in the car
before curfew deal. Not really all that
interesting.

The end of high school and arrival
in Lex Vegas. To be perfectly honest,
when I exited I-81 on that sultry August
day, I had absolutely no idea what I was
getting myself into. My first drunken
experience involved drinking a mystery
substance out of a Jim Bean handle at the
Barn. And no, it wasn’t Jim Beam. Jim

E AGAINST THE MUSIC

  

Beam isn’t pink. Sketchy late nights
meant just that- sketchy late night. You
stay up late? Wrong. I learned that frat
basements are hook-up central.

Making babies on the dance ﬂoor
does not constitute a dating relationship,
nor do the 20 or so girls who made their
walk of shame back from Davidson Park
on a cold Sunday morning last February.
Yes, a friend and I sat out and watched
them— it was rather amusing.

I have often wondered how the
social scene at W&L would be different if
more students were in a monogamous
relationship. You’ve seen them, the
absolutely whipped guys who would do
anything for their long-distance girlfriend.
C’mon guys, the girls here are just as good,
if not better, than state school plebs.

Or what about the girls who refuse
to go to a party because their jealous
boyfriend might call? Girls, you need to

Pictured wilhThomasWorthy ‘O5
and Ansel Sanders ‘O4 arethe 2004
Lip Synch champions. The Pi Beta
Pmmmmmmmmnmmmn;
rendition of Britney Spears’ smash
hit, ‘Me Againstthe Music.” Mark
yourcalendarsforthis years’ lip
synch, beneﬁtling Studer1lsAgainst
RockbridgeArea Hunger. The
eventvvill take place on January
28th at the Pavilion. It's not too late
to organize ateam. Show off your
school spiritwhile helping those
lessforlunate.

PHOTO COURTESY Pl BETA PHI

A LOOK BACK... “

FEMALES: KNOW YOUR ROLE...

This inﬂammatory satire appeared in
the 1999 Summer Scholars newspaper.
We can only hope it was a parody.

What can you tell a woman with two
black eyes? Nothing you’ve already told
her twice.

Whatever happened to the good ‘ole
days when women were seen and not
heard? Things have changed since then.
Nowadays it seems all they do is talk, talk,
talk.

From my observations, many
women seem not to care about their
appearance. When did it become attractive
to have jelly rolls or love handles? The
truth is that women have gotten lazy and
fat, and then they try to tell men that it is
beautiful. That isn’t beautiful. It is
disgusting.

Men work hard all day and want to
come home to a hot meal and an attractive,
loving wife. What men are actually

coming home to is quite different. We are
coming home to microwave dinners and
fat women who look like they ate the
woman you married and who take your
money and go shopping.

This whole mess started because we
were too nice to them. We never should
have let them out of the kitchen in the first
place. Now the house is a mess and the
laundry is undone because they have a
career to think about as well.

Take Washington and Lee
University for example. They are
supporting the corruption of our homes
with programs like Summer Scholars.
Girls shouldn’t waste their summers
studying Law or Pre—Medical Studies.
They should take something they will
actually use, like cooking or cleaning.

If she really had her pretty little
head set on working, maybe she could take
a hairstyling course. Anything more
should be out of the question.

There are enough young men to fill
America’s colleges. Women squander
their fathers’ hard-earned money to go read
feminist literature and “experiment” for
four years.

Listen, guys, we need to dig in our
heels before we lose any more ground.
Millions of dollars have gone to waste on
liberal arts education for women. Instead
of learning how to be a good wife to her
husband, she is spending four years
becoming a penis—hating lesbian.

Don’t get me wrong now. Not all
females are bad. Young infants that
haven’t learned to speak yet are ﬁne by
me, as long as they don’t learn any time
soon. Also, there is a small percentage of
women who do know their role and are
quite happy in it.

This article is for the gold-digging
leeches who feast on the blood of innocent
men, who call themselves “independent
women with a mind of their own.”

 

Student

and want to be with you.”

W&L Bool;;<rm’e Presents ,
Book
11 weekly feature of the Bookstore and the lung-‘mm PM

This week:

 

"He's Just Not That Into You" ~- based on a popular episode of
“Sex and the City" «~ educates otherwise smart women on how to
tell when a guy just doesn‘t like them enough, so they can stop
wasting time making excuses for a dead~end relationship.

Reexamining familiar scenarios and classic mindsets that keep us
in unsatisfying relationships, Behrendt and Tuccilio's wise and wry
understanding of the sexes spares women hours of waiting by the
phone, obsessing over the details with sympathetic girlfriends,

and hoping his mixed messages really mean "I‘m in love with you

“Provocative, hilarious, and, above all, intoxicatingly liberating. It
deserves a place on every womarrs night table.” ~Pecple

Regrilur [3?'iCt.'Z $19.95
Tliis wcclxz $17.95

of the Week

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 000-
$2 , 000 in earnings for your group. Call 'IODAY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with CampusFundraiser.
Contact Cartpusﬁundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

visit www. campusfundraiser . com

lighten up. Your boyfriend shouldn’t
freak out about a frenzied “girls’-night-
out.”

Would frat basements be boring?
Everyone knows that the ideal time to get
a date for Friday or Saturday night’s formal
is to go out on Wednesday night.

Would Wednesday night parties,
such as the legendary Das Klub be extinct?
Sure, the Southern Inn and Cafe Michel
may pick up some business, but someone
has to stand up for sketchy late night.

My beloved Quick Hits section
would be less than entertaining, that’s for
sure. When I think about Quick Hits, one
of the first thoughts that runs into my mind
is the one from last year, “Why aren’t girls
as hot on the Colonnade on Monday
morning as they were at the party Saturday
night?”

always attached to a member of the
opposite sex. Your formal pictures would
be monotonous- same boy with same girl.
Party Pics would be extremely dull. Who
has not logged in the week after Fancy
Dress and found crazy pictures that will
wind up as blackmail photos for future
politicians?

You can only go see so many
movies, and the State Theater is too
overpriced anyway. For the price of two
tickets, two sodas, and a bucket of
popcorn, you could drive to Charlottesville
or Roanoke and pay less money. Do girls
here even eat popcorn?

In short, I am not ranting about my
lack of dates at this school._ I actually ﬁnd
my lack thereof rather amusing. But
sometimes I just have to stop and wonder
how our beloved Lex would be different

Duh, the answers alcohol. Life if we all could put “In a Relationship” on
would be pretty damn boring if we were our Facebook profile.
The 20“ Annual

LIPSYNCH CONTEST

Beneﬁting Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger

Friday, January 28, 2005
Student Activities Pavilion
9pm (Doors Open 8:30)
$10 swipe-home admission

Act Sign-ups Tues. and Wed,

January 25-26 in the Commons
$100 entry fee/act (pay at sign-up)
3 acts/sorority
I act/ fraternity and other recognized student orgs.
Rules handed out at sign-up

Prizes Awarded: Cash and FD Tickets

Contact Thomas Worthy (worthyw@wlu.edu), Chris Lalli
(lallic@wlu.cdu) or John Allgood (allgo0dj@wlu.edu) with.
questions.

#1 SIl|'iII!I BIGBK Vacations

caneun. Jamaica, IGIIIIIIIGII. BIIIEIIIIIIS. 8. Hllﬂllal
B88! Parties, BIBS! IIIIIBIS. BBS! I'I'Il:ﬂS|
Eﬂlllll IIISGDIIIITS. Ilmanlzers Travel HGGI
Sllallﬂ IS Ilmlllll BIIIII KIWI 8. Sallﬂl
1-000-234-7007 VNlW.8IIlIIl!88SIIlIllIIIBl'Il)lll'S.I:IIlll

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas
and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for
group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or www.ststrave|.com.

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Special‘? Sh“?
273 Raphine Road
Raphlne, VA 24472
s4034os220 - 1-877-Nrr-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy-

Callforworkshop&classinformation.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunton
On I-81 / I-64 at all 205, Rankine 4mt'les west on
Route  Raphine Kind. L()C.’ll’(.'d on“ Working
farm that oﬁers "U~PICA " opp0ﬁuni!l€5f0’ f’9-ll‘
fruit when in season.

'llr -Sat 10:00. 5:00, Wed until 3:00

 _

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MG4DAY, JAMJAHY 24,1115

0[l||l|0|lS

 

Rethink honor

Honor pervades our culture here.

Freshmen constantly question each .

other as to whether an action could be
construed as an Honor Violation.
Don’t lie, even jokingly, or someone
will threaten to call Marie. To their
credit, Washington and Lee students do
strictly abide by the Honor System.

It is only our academic culture,
however, that is affected by honor. We
pledge our papers and exams, and we
truly believe in Honor in that context.

Off the Hill, however, students
do not judge their actions through the
lense of our Honor System. This needs
to change. Honor should be an inherent
aspect of our character, not merely
something we pay homage to in class.

Why not utilize something
students respect as much as the Honor
System to battle a problem as serious
as sexual assault? Educational
programming is underway through
fraternities and sororities and, though
it is an excellent first step, education
alone probably won’t change campus
culture.

Sexual assault occurs on this
campus in part because there is not a
strong social stigma against it. People
brush off sexual assault accusations as
merely a “he said—she said” problem,
or as moming-after regret on the part
of the woman.

The Executive Committee
cannot hear rape cases, for a lack of
expertise and the complications that
such serious criminal accusations
bring. During freshman orientation
about the Honor System, however, the
EC should direct some of its attention
to addressing social situations and
relate the Honor System to all aspects
of life. Publicizing hypothetical honor
cases, thus generating campus
conversation, would go a long way

toward impressing such a stigma -

against sexual assault.

The EC does not claim an action
as an Honor Violation prior to a hearing
because the definition of honor may
evolve with every new student
generation. The EC should, however,
emphasize that students should live
with honor always, especially when
interacting with each other.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions editor Caley Anderson gives
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&L and around the world.

Gays entitled to marriage rights

ByBeckyLeMohe

' n£u3ER~.viEw

I remember in high school when one
of my close friends came out of the closet.
Some people were appalled, but most of
his true friends stood by his side. While
homosexuality was an important element
of his personality, I found that he was still
the same person that we had all once
loved. I could not even think of turning
my back on someone who had always been
there for me, who could always make me
laugh, and who was an overall great
human being. Now, it infuriates me that
many of the people in this country would
vote to take away some of the rights that I
feel my friend is entitled to, as a fellow
human being.

As members of a democratic
society, how can we deny same—sex
couples the basic rights that married
heterosexual couples have? Under current
provisions, same—sex couples carmot make
decisions on a partner’s behalf during a
medical emergency, receive social security
benefits in the event of the partner’s death,
jointly share all property and debt,
purchase health coverage for a partner
during a job loss, as well as a number of
other benefits that married heterosexual
couples enjoy. Our state of Virginia is
currently a battleground between gay
rights activists and the supporters of a
Constitutional amendment banning gay
marriage. If the issue passes two separate
sections of the legislature, it will be up to
voters to decide in 2006. That is why it is
such an important issue to discuss now.

I understand that most people
cannot be persuaded to change their
opinion on homosexuality either way; I
myself, as a Christian, do not personally
support it. However, when Christians
quote various verses in the Bible that seem
to refer to homosexuality in a negative
mariner, many forget the basic principles

A of Christianity. Whatever happened to
“love thy neighbor,” learning how to
forgive, and acceptance of differences? I
think that if people are going to use their
religion as a reason not to support gay
rights, they should follow all aspects of
their religion. Otherwise, they are simply
hypocrites. Ultimately, shouldn’t we leave
it up to God to judge? As human beings
and Americans, we have the responsibility

of preserving the rights of every person in
this country, not just the ones whose
personal beliefs match ours.

I think even opponents of
homosexuality should consider the reasons
behind my support of gay rights. I actually
do not think it has anything to do with
whether or not you approve of
homosexuality. It has more to do with the
fact that our society has prospered largely
due to the separation of church and state.
The very countries that we are fighting
against are ruled by religious
fundamentalists; I was under the
impression that our country was different.
As I stated previously, this country prides
itself in its reputation as a free nation; as
such, it is contrary to our country’s
foundations to impose political sanctions
on members of any group, even if that
group is the minority group.

It is vital to consider that throughout
our country's history, various groups have

i fought for political rights. At one time,

many people felt it was morally wrong to
grant suffrage to blacks or women. Now,
in retrospect, most people are appalled by
the actions of the majority during those
time periods. It is possible that in a
hundred years, people will look back on
our society and be horriﬁed by the fact that
we discriminated against people based on
sexual preference. Do we want to be
remembered as an intolerant society, or a
truly free society?

Even if you are personally opposed

to an issue such as gay rights that does I

not mean that you cannot support it
politically. This country was founded on
a separation between church and state.
Church should be the place where
religious leaders preach the evils of
homosexuality to their congregations in an
attempt to persuade them to avoid such
lifestyle choices. That is not the
responsibility of the government and it is
contrary to the rights of the people. To
quote Vice President Dick Cheney, “The
fact of the matter is we live in a free
society, and freedom means freedom for
everybody. And I think that means that
people should be free to enter into any kind
of relationship they want to enter into. It’s
really no one else’s business in terms of
trying to regulate or prohibit behavior in
that regard.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNlVERSl'l'Y

THE RING-TUM PHI.

Bush lays out bold plan for
ending “tyranny in our world”

President committed to ensuring freedom

Bystuiewison
CPNC)\$VVHTEi

Doubt, skepticism, and grimaces.
Praise, approval, and applause.
Thursday’s reactions to President Bush’s
second inaugural address were mixed, to
the say the least. In the few days since
heading to Washington to take in the
President’s remarks, I have heard
opinions as caustic as battery acid and
others that laud his speech as the best
ever.

President Bush made some astute,
and it should be noted, historically based
statements about the role of freedom in
developing a just and peaceful world.

In doing so, the President has
renewed an old debate on the question of
imperialism. The issue of how the United
States should approach its role in the
world to confront the global threat of
terrorism is key to his vision.

Near the beginning of his speech
the President proclaimed, “For as long as
whole regions of the world simmer in
resentment and tyranny - prone to
ideologies that feed hatred and excuse
murder — violence will gather, and
multiply in destructive power, and cross
the most defended borders, and raise a
mortal threat.”

The President’s logic is hard to
disagree with. Millions across the globe
resent a United States that they perceive
as greedy, power hungry, and corrupt.
Thousands of extremists, born out of
conditions of warped governments and
blind hatred, would like nothing more
than to bring about our total destruction.

Faced with such a scenario, two
choices are apparent. First, we can sit at
home, sipping on pink lemonade and
watching Desperate Housewives with
crossed fingers, hoping another attack is
not in the making. Second, we can engage
the world through diplomacy and strength
of action, backed by the collective will
of an important concept: freedom. The
ultimate decision should be clear.

Many people lampooned the
President for his repetition of certain
words in his speech. Liberty was
employed fifteen times. Freedom, one
friend told me with a look suggesting
cardiac arrest, was mentioned a whopping
twenty-seven times. Personally, I see little

problem putting emphasis on a central
theme through repetition- especially in
a speech of several thousand words.

The President, through his
statements, realizes the force of human
freedom is not only a potent remedy to
injustice, but a tool that will protect the
United States in the long run. The
survival of our liberty does indeed
depend on the liberty of other nations.

Without a doubt, his comments
on “the expansion of freedom in all the
world....with the ultimate goal of
ending tyranny in our world” raised
eyebrows for many people.

Ending tyranny is a tall order by
nature, and a noble goal. Needless to
say, serious questions arise when one
considers the implications of the
President’s words. Like Santa Claus, are
we to make a list of all the countries
that have been naughty for the year, and
then force democracy on them one by
one? Do we have the right to do so?

President Bush qualified his
remarks through an important corollary
that should diminish such fears. The
task at hand, “is not primarily the task
of arms, though we will defend
ourselves and our friends by force of
arms when necessary.”

President Bush makes clear that
our first recourse is dialogue, but we do
not waver from the threat of conﬂict
with those who irnperil our way of life.
During his first term, the President
backed up his words with firm and
resolute action, and the United States
now has more credibility to undertake
democratic reform.

The President I heard on
inauguration day was both visionary and
eloquent, and he ended his speech with
a message of hope.

“By our efforts, we have lit a ﬁre
as well - a fire in the minds of men. It
warms those who feel its power, it burns
those who ﬁght its progress, and one
day this untamed fire of freedom will
reach the darkest corners of our world.”

As the" United States moves
forward through the next four years, its
citizens can take comfort in the
knowledge that they have a President
who is poised to continue securing the
values, and freedom that his country
cherishes.

Osnow
For me, the novelty has completely
worn off. At least it was warm as of E]-ra;iSiN_CHiEF E;iNEi_izABE-"_iiu_”s 0 0
 em Beware tradition
Oside-to-sidearrows RE
From now on, U s and Downs will ( ‘ ' ) I
.tI'u1y my be ,,i,;’,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,_ mm mm, Tradition used as thoughtless excuse
ASSIST ANT BEVVSEDITOR KATIEIES-EL
0Lip Sync OPNDNSEDH-Q; c~_EyAM]3@q ByKrisl'I1Evms is. This would make tradition no more
How about, in addition to the gong, ASSIS-I-AN-i—OpNONSE3i-i-OR AMEHLEY AGA"‘5TllE‘3*‘A“ than a sorry €XCl1Se.ih d if
we force all the on ed-out acts to For a Campus at pri CS itse On
walk around thegrestg of the week with Am-S&UFEEDn-OR EvI'YE)NAFDS On this campus, tradition is welcoming only the brightest students
paper bags over their heads? PFDTOED”-0:‘ ca:BN1AcKFa:D around us throughout the year. From the that the world has to offer, it also
LAYOJTEDITCRS CI'|ADKEWEl'x.KI& Colonnade to the Liberty Hall ruins, we welcomes some of the most ignorant
0Boo|(store V BVLYI-[LBJ live in a world of traditions. For some people that I have ever encountered.
Who makes purchasing decisions for students, tradition is the reason why they There are people here who have never
the first-ﬂoor bookstore? That person aiSNESSMANAGE:i DAvD£:Eq.i. are here or why they joined a certain seen or. known anything beyond their
deserves a gigantic raise for doing a CFCuiA_i_K)\iDiRECT0:i lam" fraterruty, or even why they chose their social circle. There are people here who
lot with a iittie his one of the best major. Tradition has become a way of read a single book and then believe that
bookstores I’ve seen, despite its size. ASSSTANT aRalA1UV   life- 1 1 I h b theii; haV° Wisdom t0 Shafepon 3: mliiic
E..l?ABEll-IFKEVSGJ However, ate y ave ecome wi out ever experiencing it. eop ew o
0A|°°h°i debate yNyANu i dissatisfied with this lifestyle._ What is claim to know how the world works but
Apparent peace for the moment, but Fa_iANPa1iARA tradition anyway? According to the have never truly been beyond their own
iiniess the Great Commonwealth of Oxford Enghsli Dictionary tradition backyard. Then there are the people who
Virginia lowers its drinking age, CGDYEITGB MMiDAin{x-KE 1: ithat  ifs thus hgndeiii d0Vl/‘Kilt; zdi live by tragiitiioipd becaiiiise that s what
Someoiieis always going“) havca V saemen,H ie iorprac ce  e momrriyian 3 ysai .i d i d
legitimate Compiaim. Af‘£AAH§ (esp. ora ny) rom genera ion to O _ ease 0 not misun ers an ,
m@  generation. tradition is not our archenemy. However,

()111e 90s
Not just the decade, which was

I ‘*~\_excellent, but also the numbers

themselves. I mean, if you take a red
pen and wiite “97” on something you
wrote, it gives you a warm feeling
inside. Ormaybe that’s just me.

0TheSuper Bowl

The AFC Champ will win, and I didn’t
even know who that was when I wrote
this.

0 E.C.

On the eve of Budget hearings, I
would just like to remind the E.C. that
they are wonderful people.

ﬂ1eFi'ig-amHvlsptbisl’edMmdaysdumgmeuridergradiiatesi:mdyear
atWash'ngtonandLeeUniveisity, Lexington, Wgnia
ﬂ1eFﬁ1g-unHﬂsanierrberdThePLUknﬁmsBoam,bmSoﬂieMbeirdependem


Allstbrriissionsmiistbee-rrailedtophi@vvlu.eduorintheUniveIsilyCenterrnaR>oxby5p.m.
Friclaytoappearinthetollovvvingi/veeksecitiori.
'lheFihg-turnPhireserves1he righttoeditsibrnissiorisforoontentaridlenglh.
Leﬁesaﬂodwnrsdoridneoessarilymﬂedteopinmdﬂwliiy-mmHﬁEdmdalBoam.
Adveitisirigdoesnotretlecxtheopinionsot 7heFthg-tumPrioritss1aﬁ.
Thisnevvspaperobsewesainemowndetiniﬁmsotlibelandobsoemiy.

7heRhg4iml=h“
UniversilyConmonsRoorn.341
Wash'nglmandLeeUriversily
Lex'ngm,Virg‘nia24450
Teiephone:(540)4584060
Fa>c(540)458-4059
Emal'phi@w|u.edu
Subsor'ptionrate$40

As I pondered this definition in
an attempt to locate the source of my
frustrations, I realized that tradition has
become a crutch. I remembered the
many times that I asked questions like
“why there is an ‘old south’ party” and
how the only response I was offered was
“it is tradition.” In that moment I
discovered that this thing called tradition
is no longer acceptable.

Tradition creates indifference.
Instead of debating and proving a point,
one simple word explains it all. My
biggest fear is that the reason tradition
is the answer is the fact that no one
knows the true answer, or that everyone
is afraid to say what that answer really

we must be careful how we use tradition;
if we are not, tradition will become no
more than a word.

If you keep traditions but carmot
explain why and if you ignore the
meaning of your traditions at their core
and inception but continue to follow
them, you are contributing to the demise
of tradition. You are degrading
something that could have meaning. So
examine your traditions, make sure that
they have true meaning. If not, you are
just another sad individual, peeking out
from behind a shallow argument when
you use tradition as an explanation and
I warn you now, be prepared to defend
yourself.

 

MG‘DAY,JA|\UAHY 241,315

“I wanted to be a cool mom.”
— QUOTE OF THE WEEKACo|oiadorriotherwhoheldorgypai'tlesforher

THERING-TUMPHI 0 7 _

Cadets deserve
W&L’s respect

Life at VMI proves
much harder than
most of us think

ByCdeyAnderson

It/If"-lATE’SNlS‘%

In the vicinity of a weekend
party not too long ago, I was witness
to a very strange spectacle, a
conversation between two people. On
the right, a fratty—haired guy wearing
jeans, whom I know fairly well. On
the left, a guy with close-cut hair,
wearing an immaculate suit and khakis,
and wearing a gigantic ring. It will be
evident to veterans of the big Lex that
this was a conversation between a
W&Ler and a Cadet.

It was the tail end of the
conversation, and the W&L student
was saying something to this effect-
“N o offense, but I really think that life
at VMI can’t be that hard. I mean, you
have those military trappings, but really
it’s just a public school, the academic
load can’t be as heavy as it is here.”

I think that neither school in
Lexington gives the other the respect
it deserves, but I think the problem is
worse on this side of Letcher Avenue,
so this column will be a two-part look
at how they do things over there,
because VMI and W&L definitely
change their students in different ways.
The first part of this look at the school
across the way will examine the rigors
of the first year at VMI, as well as the
incredible stress that all the cadets take
on through their four years.

Few appreciate how difficult
the freshman year at VMI really is.
There is a protective shield of levity
that surrounds the rats, so it’s often
tough to ascertain how rough they
really have it. They are called rats, and
they are rats. They are literally inferior
human beings. They must salute, they
must walk an imaginary line, the
“ratline,” on the outside corner of the
barracks’ halls. Their life is one that
makes most frat pledgeships look
comic. They are terrorized by most of
the rest of the Corps from day one,
continuing on for about ﬁve months,
day in, day out. Their life is a hell of
push-ups and screaming faces, of sweat
parties and waking up before dawn.
“Privacy” and “Free time” do not exist.
For this reason, a typical VMI freshman
class suffers attrition of around 20%-
sometirnes even the most physically ﬁt
rats quit because they can’t handle the
mental pressure. But friendships are
formed between classmates that are
unbreakable. Faced with an almost
insumiountable stress, the freshmen
turn to each other for support. Men in
their 60s have referred to each other as
“brother rats,” for the bonds that are
created in such stress are difficult to
strain. The life of a freshman at W&L
is not comparable. I’m not saying that
either is preferable, that’s an individual
choice, but I think that when you say
that W&L is more challenging, you’re
‘making an apples to oranges
comparison.

And the academics are
certainly n_ot easy. VMI is the nation’s
leading public liberal arts school for a
reason. At W&L, our unofficial motto
is “Work hard, play hard.” The VMI
equivalent might be “work hard, then
work some more, and then more.” The
academics may or may not be as
challenging as W&L’s, but in
combination with the fact that there’s
little or no down time because of the
military life, and the grinding schedule
gets to a lot of people. Classes have
graduated from VMI with less than half
the students they began with; the
majority of students in such classes
simply feel crushed under the weight
of their obligations and the largely
gloomy world they inhabit.

Next week, a look at the
scheduled life of a cadet, their Honor

System, and various other VMI J

sundries.

Abortion still a moral horror

But on Roe V. Wade anniversary, pro—life movement making progress

ByTheresaDoug1ei1y

O’l\ﬂ*SWHTER

This past Saturday, January 22,
marked the thirty-second anniversary of
the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision
that made abortion legal in the United
States. This Monday, thousands of people,
myself included, will be marching on the
Supreme Court to protest the decision that,
to date, has ended the lives of 46 million
unborn children.

In the Declaration of
Independence, Thomas Jefferson wrote
these words: “We hold these truths to be
self-evident, that all men are created equal,
that they are endowed by their Creator with
certain unalienable Rights, that among
these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of
Happiness.” The language that Jefferson
uses here tells us that all are created equal,
not born equal. Thus those that have
already been created and not yet born
should be entitled to these same rights that
those that are outside the womb have: life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Abortion is a clear violation of each of
these fundamental rights: it robs the
unborn of life, thus depriving its chance
of ever experiencing liberty or happiness.
Just because we outside the womb already
enjoy these rights does not give us the
power to deny them to others.

Many in the pro-choice movement

would argue that it is a woman’s body and
the state should not interfere in the
decisions that she makes regarding her
body. I believe this is absolutely true —
the state should not interfere with a
woman’s body. However, this does not
apply to abortion, as abortion clearly
involves two ‘distinct bodies: that of the
woman and her child. The government
has made many laws regarding how
individuals can and cannot interact with
each other. You may get into an argument
with a person, but you may not strike, rape,
or kill them. Once a decision affects more
than one person, privacy is breached and
the government can become involved. In
regards to abortion, the government should
become involved, because it ends in the
destruction of at least one person’s life.
As Thomas Jefferson wrote, “The care of
human life and happiness and not their
destruction is the first and only legitimate
object of good government.” Here, the
preservation of human life should be more
important than the right to privacy.

The last article that I read in the
Ring-Tum Phi about the abortion issue was
from a pro-choice angle, and made the
argument that since women will always
be getting abortions, it’s better to keep
them safe and legal. To me, this argument
does not stand at all. Well, stealing will
always happen, so why don’tvwe stop
selling alarms so the burglars can get in
and out unnoticed? Murder will always

happen, so why don’t we give out knives
or guns with silencers to make it easier? I
also have heard the argument that if
abortion is made illegal or parental
notiﬁcations required for abortions, then
more women will resort to hurting
themselves to end an unwanted pregnancy,
possibly ending in the death of both
individuals. To me, this is more of an issue
having to deal with the lack of support in
the social structure rather than a problem
stemming from abortion itself. Abortion
is a symptom of the greater social problem
of discrimination against women and the
lack of resources available to them. There
is no such thing as an unwanted child:
there are plenty of women out there
incapable of having children of their own
or singles and couples who want to adopt.
It also disgusts me that some people
believe that abortion is alright if you
discover your child has a disability or
genetic disorder or if your child was
conceived through rape. As someone with
two genetic diseases, I am offended that
someone would see me in the womb and
think they have the right to end my life.
Having at least one person in my life who
was conceived through rape, I am again
offended by the thought that someone
would think it was acceptable to end her
life. I do not know what it is like to be
raped, but I would guess that the emotional
trauma of the actual rape followed by the
decision to have an abortion could only

inﬂict further emotional, physical, and
mental harm on the woman. I too am pro-
choice: the difference is that I believe
abortion should not be a choice.

The pro—life movement has won
two huge victories in the past few years.
First, President Bush signed into law the
Partial Birth Abortion Ban, finally
outlawing the cruel and unusual procedure
that ends the life of unborn children by

vacuuming out their brains. Several states ' .

are ﬁghting this law, and Nebraska’s was
recently overturned due to the fact that it
did not include an exceptions clause for

the life of the mother. In addition, Laci ~ ‘

and Conner’s Law was passed, which
recognizes the death of two individuals
when a pregnant woman is murdered. This
is a huge step forward because this law
acknowledges the two distinct individuals
victimized by the crime.

Science proves that when a woman
is pregnant, there are two separate beings,

two different DNA codes, and two »;
different hearts beating. To deny this and ’,

allow abortions to continue is to deny a
simple common moral and natural law:
thou shalt not kill. To end, this quote is

from a woman named Norma McCorvey, ‘
whom most would know as Jane Roe in -

the Roe v. Wade decision: “I am dedicated
to spending the rest of my life undoing
the law that bears my name.”

Effort must be made at W&L
to improve int’l learning

Dear Editor,

All of us remember where we were
on September 11th, 2001. I had just begun
my college career at W & L, and on my
way back to the dorms after a geology
class, my friend Mike Kearney told me a
plane had ﬂown into one of the World
Trade Center towers.

I remember getting back to my
room, sitting on my couch, and watching
in disbelief as the second plane struck the
other tower. For all of us, whether we
realized it or not, the world changed that
day.

We soon learned that instability in
a country as distant and remote as
Afghanistan could affect our own security.
Republicans and Democrats agreed:
America had a new role to play in the
world.

But I believe the challenge is
broader than that: all Americans have a
new role to play in the world. We now
have the responsibility to understand other
cultures and help them understand our
own. In the future, global peace and
prosperity will depend on that.

Despite this new challenge, only 20
percent of Americans even have passports.
At W & L, less than half of all students
have had a significant international
experience, with most of those occurring
over the shortened spring term or the
summer months. Those figures are as
dangerous as they are disheartening.

Yet, I believe our university—our
community—can do something about that,
first by creating a chapter of Americans
for Informed Democracy (AID) on our
campus. AID is a non—partisan 501 (c)(3)
organization working to raise global

awareness on more than 175 U.S.
university campuses and in more than 10
countries. AID fulfills its mission by
coordinating town hall meetings on
America’s role in the world, hosting
leadership retreats, and publishing opinion
pieces and reports on issues of global
importance. Through these efforts, AID
seeks to build a new generation of globally
conscious leaders who can shape an
American foreign policy appropriate for
our increasingly interdependent world.

A chapter of AID at W & L will also
harness the experiences of our students
who have studied abroad and our
international students, enriching our
campus and inspiring other students to
travel overseas. Beyond that, I hope our
administration will make study abroad a
new university priority and perhaps
consider making it, in the future, a
requirement for graduation.

Recognizing the new challenges the
world faces, President of Harvard
University, Larry Surrirners, said at a recent
speech: “I hope we’ll be able to look
forward to the day when in one way or
another, over the summer or during the
term or between semesters, every Harvard
student will have had a significant
international experience.” I believe
Washington and Lee should contribute to
that effort and share its concepts of civility
and honor, not just with this region or this
country, but with the entire world.

If you are interested in starting this

- new organization, please contact Matt

Yohe at yohem@wlu.edu.

Sincerely,
Matt Yohe ‘05

Reader points out APA inaccuracies

Dear Editor,

In Monday’s paper, under the article
“Fact or Fiction - The Greeks”, the myth
that Alpha Phi Alpha was moving into the
Beta house was cleared up. While I’m
grateful that this rumor was dispelled, I
was deeply troubled at the author’s
description of APA as a “newly formed
African-American fraternity”. The reason
behind this is because APA was

established in 1906 and has continued to
thrive on other campuses since then. While
this may seem as a minor mistake, you
have to understand that the reason there is
so much resistance to bringing the Alphas"
on campus is because people are under the
impression that this organization has been

developed recently so that blacks have
their “own frat” to join. It also disturbs
me at the lack of research that has gone
into any story concerning the Alphas. I do
believe that all good journalists must
research a topic before publishing a story

_ and not base their articles on hear-say. If

you would like to know more about Alpha
Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. please visit this
website : : /www.al hial ha.net/.
Also could you please issue a correction
and maybe if you find the website helpful,
have a staff member take the time to write
a comprehensive article on the Alphas.

I you and have a wonderful day.

Sincerely,
Cherrelle Moser

Ever since I was a youngster
growing up in the 1960s, I have
considered the Reverend Dr. Martin

America’s greatest heroes.‘ He dedicated
his life to setting people free from
discrimination and to promoting equality

massive non—violent protest and civil
disobedience, he was more responsible
than any other single individual for
defeating Jim Crow segregation in the
South. A wellspring of inspiration and
bedrock of support for the civil rights
movement in the South were the black
churches. Rev. King understood and
articulated so eloquently the simple truth
that we are all God's children and as such
have an innate and equal dignity that is
deserving of respect. During a time
when Americans of African descent in
the South were legally prevented from
attending the same schools, swimming
in the same pools, eating at the same
lunch counters, and using the same
public toilets as white people, the black
church provided a safe haven from
pervasive humiliation. Everybody who
entered its doors was somebody. What
gave Rev. King the calm and inspiring
courage to face imprisonment, attacks by

assassination was his unshakeable faith
in the righteousness of his cause and the
conﬁdence he had in eventual victory.
In the end, Rev. King gave his life in the
pursuit of liberty and equality.
Thirteen organizations and
university departments agreed to
commemorate Rev. King’s legacy by
pooling their resources to invite Angela
Davis to speak in Lee Chapel. I believe
that this decision was a mistake. Ms.
Davis’ political activism originally
emerged in reaction to the same
abhorrent conditions of segregation and
oppression that Dr. King witnessed;
however, she chose a much different path
to follow. Imbibing in the atheistic,
existentialist writings of J ean-Paul Sartre
in Europe in the 1960s, she subsequently
returned to the U.S. to pursue graduate
studies with the doyen of U.S. academic
Marxists, Herbert Marcuse. Davis
accepted the Marxist world view, which
had its roots in nineteenth-century
atheistic materialism. She joined the
Communist Party USA (CPUSA), which
to this day remains committed to
working-class revolution. Communism
in the Soviet Union, China, and
elsewhere was horribly repressive and

Luther King, Jr., to have been one of

of opportunity. Following the path of

police dogs, and the threat of

responsible for the deaths of tens of

Bringing-Davis a mistake

millions of its own countrymen in the ‘ i

twentieth century, and we know today
that the CPUSA received substantial

funding from the Soviet Union. 5

Evidently, Ms. Davis found much to
emulate in the communist world.

Davis aclmowledges that she was
a member of the CPUSA but seems
reluctant to mention that she twice ran
for U.S. Vice President on the CPUSA
ticket. In 1980 she and long—time
CPUSA leader Gus Hall received just
under 44,000 votes (in comparison to
more than 79 million cast for Reagan and
Carter combined). Undaunted, Hall and
Davis ran again in 1984 and saw their
vote tally drop to just over 36,000. Davis
never seemed to ‘grasp the irony that she
could run as a communist in the U.S. but
that countries that had communist
governments refused to hold free
elections. When communist Poland
broke the mold and allowed the
democratic Solidarity movement to ﬁeld
candidates in June 1989, the communists
there did little better than Hall and Davis.
They lost every seat in the Polish Sejm,
which Solidarity was allowed to contest.
Those Polish elections marked the
beginning of the fall of communism
throughout Eastern Europe.

Ms. Davis received $15,000 (not
counting expenses) for her visit to W&L.
I wish that that money had been spent in
any of a number of other ways to
commemorate Rev. King. It could have

been given to my friend and colleague ' - ‘

Dr. Ted DeLaney to give him a higher
profile for telling the story of
desegregation in Virginia, including his

own. Dr. DeLaney grew up in Lexington ‘ I

but could not attend W&L right after
high school because of the color of his
skin. Instead, he worked for a while in
our chemistry lab washing test tubes.
Later, however, he graduated from W&L
and is now a tenured member of the
History Department and an esteemed
campus leader. The money might have

been devoted to expanding upon his oral ’ I .'
history of school desegregation in this ' «

area. As an alternative, in the spirit of
Rev. King’s concern for lifting up the
poor, it might have been devoted to Dr.
Beckley’s Shepherd Poverty Program.

Or maybe to those who have been i ‘

ravaged on a distant shore — to the
tsunami survivors. I’m conﬁdent that

Rev. King would have supported all of f ~ ‘

these endeavors.

Sincerely yours,
Richard Bidlack
History Department

 

8 0 THERNG-'l1MP|'I

MGQDAY, JAMJARY M215

Iastword

l\

-Let’s break out the booze and have
a ball, if that’s all there is.

-Will Lewis leads a double
life....ask him about it.

-Brett was our savior last night.
When Domino’s was closed, he was
there. Thank you, Brett. Enjoy your
snack cakes.

IWaiting over 30 minutes for

takeout sushi = not cool. How long
does it take to roll an Alaska roll?

-Biggest letdown of the year:
Blizzard 2005. Laaaaaame.

-“Think again”

-Who else misses pledge costume
day?

-Don’t you just love hazing?

'Tcmorrow is National Booty Call
Day...enjoy!

II ﬁgured it out — Tom Burish is just
Adam Hutchison’s puppet for turning
this school as gay as Williams or
Amherst or wherever he went.

-If I don’t make it to the gym this
week to work off this freshman
fifteen, someone please smack me
with a frat boy’s paddle.

-On my way to class I overheard
one student exclaim, “Vicious tit!” in
response to the weather.

-Jeb, we’re sorry we rolled you out
of the ofﬁce, now you see why.

-Contrary to popular belief, the
sandboxes outside every door are not
trash cans disguised as ashtrays.
They're just ashtrays.

.Falcon boy... why did you leave
me?

Iln response to the attacks on
Andrew Rothey...suck it up; they’re
just opinions!

II feel like a truck hit me, then
reversed and hit me again...crazy

night

-Jeb Brooks, aka. Lady's Man,
Man’s Man, Man About Town

.Hangover: The wrath of grapes.

-There’s a strange boy sleeping on
the ﬂoor of our den...

-Ice skating = one of the worst
choices I made at W&L

-The professors at the Palms were
laughing at me

'1 hope the wind does not blow

[away my lingering euphoria from last

night

lSex is one of those essential
needs. . .like air, water and chocolate

-I’m not a vegetarian because I love
animals. I’m a vegetarian because I
hate plants.

-Apologies to everyone I poured
beer on while dancing.

-1 feel like I look.
IWho put up my last away message?

II’m not sure she even has real‘
human feelings.

 

'1 would rather share one lifetime
with you, than face all the ages of this
world alone

.My life kicks ass.

-MCAT, I’m going to whoop your
ass.

ICarbon Leaf is going to be in
Charlottesville on Friday.

I“It’s just really sexy chemistry.”-
Dr. Uffelman

-My grandmother said you were
very pretty and she’s glad we’re
friends

-I will stop grounding myself when
the bruises I don’t remember getting

have healed.

-Erin “Ring-tum Sexy” Julius... we
didn’t Sély it, the Trident did

-Hey, I have a small mouth.

'How are those boots working out
for your new life?

IIt’s not vengeance, it’s just a good
idea inspired by someone else’s

misery.

-Walker and David totally put the
God in Godwin.

ILaw students throw the best pants-
optional parties.

IGo Eagles!

IHow does one have sex like a

volcano?

IYou better check yo’self before you
wreck yo’self.

.Lindsey Hagerman is the life of
EVERY party.

llack Handy — It takes a big man
to cry, but it takes a bigger man to
laugh at that man.

ILansing Michigan law — If dwarf
tossing becomes a spectator sport
you must obtain a permit.

IA mother has been arrested on
charges that she gave crack to her
4-year-old son to “calm him down."

llohnny Carson died Sunday
morning at the age of 79.

I‘”I'ed, strange things are afoot at
the Circle K” -

.99 percent of lawyers give the
rest apbad name.

IBeing 21 is so dominant.... No
matter what anyone says, it never
gets old.

-It’s amazing how many people
forget to bring their ID to band
parties.

IThe Palms bartenders are still
talking about Erin Julius’ blowjob
shot. '

ITo the concerned KA at
Shitkickers, it was very nice to see
you looking out for us girls.

The Phi welcomes your anonymously submitted Quick Hits,  1
rants, raves, and tales of drunken debauchery sent to phi@ulu.edu
 

 

Proactive action needed to promote sleep

Byxrisuneeary

NILKN\DCl-EESEGlFl

This week I am going to write about
a topic near to EVERY college students
life — Greek or independent, drinker or
non-drinker, freshman or senior: sleep.
Sleep, for most of us, is a sacred and
cherished activity. However, in our super-
busy, work-ﬁlled, fun-ﬁlled lives, often we
don’t get enough of it. Sometimes, we
even starve ourselves of the zzzzzz’s, and
the results of that are simply painful.

I know that in my own personal
experience that as I lose more and more
shut—eye to the demands of Washington
and Lee, I find myself depending more and
more on caffeine to stay awake during the
day. Formerly, I was anti-coffee and anti-
pop. (Yes, I say “pop.” I am from the
Midwest, and that is how we say it there.
No matter how long I live in Virginia, I
refuse to reform. Go ahead and laugh.)
Then exam week happened. And although
I have yet to resort to caffeine pills or Red
Bull, I can no longer forgo this crutch.
Actually, it’s almost a requisite to stop by
the co-op at least once if I plan to make it
past eleven o’clock at night.

Because I am a nerd, I decided to
do some detective work for this article. I
turned to the American Beverage

Association and Google to find out just
how much of my lifesaver is contained in
some of the nation’s favorite drinks. In
fact, thanks to my research I can ﬁnally
solve the biggest debate of the century.
While Diet Pepsi has 37 mg per 12 ounces,
Diet Coke has 45. Clearly, we have a
winner. AMP Energy Drink has 75 mg of
caffeine per 8 ounces, which is trounced
by Red Bull, which rings in with an
astounding 80 mg. A Starbucks coffee
Frappuccino has 83 mg of the good stuff.

Utilizing my math skills, I quickly
calculated my own caffeine intake.
Houston, I think we have a problem!
Unfortunately, being new to the game, I
know I am not nearly as dependent on
coffee and pop (I wrote it again! Ha! Take
that!) as the next person. So, clearly, we
have a campus-wide crisis. Frankly, I think
the administration is being hypocritical.
The deans are spending so much time and
effort trying to eliminate student alcohol
usage while ignoring what is clearly a far
more pervasive problem — a student body
wide addiction to a drug that can cause
the shakes, mess with one’s circadian
rhythm, and cause indigestion —to put it
nicely- problems.

I call for action to be taken.
Proactive board members like ours surely
cannot ignore our plight. They, to remain

in good conscience, must work to alleviate
the factors influencing our drug
dependence. And luckily for them, I have
taken the time to come up with a solution
to what is clearly a debilitating disease.

First of all, W & L should institute
a campus-wide naptime. I personally
would prefer it to be scheduled from 1 to
3, but I am definitely open to negotiations.

Secondly, “I was too tired to come
to class” should be an acceptable excuse
for missing any lecture course scheduled
before noon. And “I studied so long that I
didn’t make it to bed until 3 am” should
qualify a student for at least a few points
of extra credit. On the same note, “I was
up all night writing but I just couldn’t
fmish this” should be good for at least a
weeklong extension.

Finally, until our bodies are well
rested, we shouldn’t be expected to give

up our reliance on caffeine. Quitting cold,

turkey could cause severe withdrawal
symptoms. So, in remedy, I suggest that
dining services let Starbucks coffee ﬂow
freely into our wide-open and receptive
mouths.

Serious actions must be taken to
solve a serious problem. But I am really
too tired to think about it anymore. Maybe
after I’ve ﬁnished my nap. ..

Marsha

Bynrasrunue
FOTATOIWW

“This is the biggest mistake you
have ever made in your life.” It always
warms my heart to hear my own mother
say that. While I know she is exaggerating
about the gravity of my error in judgment,
it did make me think about the other
mistakes I have made in my life. and trust
me, there have been many.

My mistake this week cost my
mother a hundred dollars. While one
hundred dollars isn’t a lot of money
(especially to the W&L student body as a
whole), my mom lost more than that. She
went on about trust and responsibility and
something else... I don’t know, I wasn’t
really listening.

Instead of listening, I was thinking
about 7th grade. I was thinking about
getting the invitation to a Halloween Party
from the 8th grade popular girl. She was
older, smarter, more beautiful, and more
experienced than those 7th grade girls, and
I was in love with her. I had never been
to a big party before, and made sure to
ask my best friend about what might
happen at this party. I

My friend was not invited to
this party, and felt it necessary
to ruin my chances with a
girl that was almost in
high school. He told
me the party
would be
lame, and I

screws up again

should hang out with him and watch scary
movies instead. I, for some unknown
reason, listened to my friend, and stayed
away from the party.

When I got back to school Monday,
I had learned the extent of my mistake.

This party had it all. It had dancing, a
3:1 girl to guy ratio, Truth or Dare and
even Spin the Bottle. And instead, I had
spent my night watching a movie in my
friend’s room. The love of my life walked
up to me that Monday, said she missed me
at the party, and then walked out of my
life forever.

Now that was a mistake. That was
a missed opportunity. That mistake is right
up there with dropping an interception in
a high school football game that would
have taken us to the State Championship
game. That is up there with forgetting to
wear underwear to work out. Now these
are real mistakes.

Mistakes are waking up Sunday
morning and having to sneak out of your
room before the stranger in your bed wakes
up. Mistakes are what you wore to school
8 years ago. Mullets are mistakes.

 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
    

Over the last few days I have had
memories of mistakes randomly pop into
my head. Every time I think that I have
remembered all of my mistakes in life,
another one pops up. It has reminded me
just how stupid I can be sometimes.

Sometimes I do the dumbest things.

There was a period of a few weeks in
middle school where I was too lazy to
brush my teeth. I would just throw some
Listerine in my mouth, scrape off the
plaque with my ﬁngernail and be on my
way. There was also a period of time in
elementary school where I didn’t use soap
in the shower (if you hadn’t noticed,
before high school, I ‘was the smelly
kid...what arnl saying, I still am the smelly
kid).

My mom is still a little mad at me,
but not because I cost her a hundred
dollars. She is mad because sometimes I
don’t think straight. Sometimes, I, just
like any other living organism, make
mistakes. And she doesn’t let me settle
for being a normal living organism, that’s
why I love her. And in two days she'll
forget all of this and won’t even remember
the hundred dollars. But I will always
remember that girl in middle school.

So, Ashley, wherever you are.
if the offer’s still on the table, let’s
go hang out. l’ll bring the

empty bottle, and you
bring your four closest
girl friends.

EMILY HULEN I
STAFF ILLUSTRATION

