 

   

COMBINED SPECIAL EDI:Ir0N

he Ring-tum Phi & The Trident

Thursday, April 1, 2004

Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450

White Book bafﬂes students, EC

' By Mehul Srivastava

Confusion about provisions in Washington and Lee's
White Book, and reported threats from the Executive
Committee about breaches of conﬁdentiality forced
campus newspapers Wednesday to cancel reports detail-
ing the honor hearings involving a W&L student.

Primary sources for the story claimed they were
threatened by the EC for disclosing conﬁdential infor-
mation to a reporter. The EC, including President Helen
Hughes, has denied any such threats.

Subsequent interviews with EC members, the student
involved, and charac-

suspension for students who break the agreement.

2006 Law School Representative Dannel Duddy
expressed his frustration with the confusion about the
rules.

“I am not familiar with the rule, and I don’t really
understand it," he said, later adding. “I think students
should be informed of the conﬁdentiality clause when
they are undergoing the introduction to the Honor
System.”

Another member admitted to never actually reading
the statement.

“During the hearings, I am usually positioned at an

angle where I can’t

ter witnesses reveal
widespread inconsis-
tencies in their inter-
pretations about the
rules, prompting one
EC member, Marie
Trimble, to concede
that “this is some-
thing the White Book
Committee needs to
take a look at."

The rule in ques-
tion is the conﬁden-
tiality agreement that
all students accept as
binding when they
sign the White Card
during freshman ori-
entation.

Anne Johansen,
secretary of the EC ,
said that as far as she
understands the rules,
the accused is free to
speak to whomever
he wants, since it is
his reputation at
stake.

7fIi]3
HONOR SYSTEM

 

Washington and Lee University
2003-2004

see the agreement,”
said Cristin Nunez, a
member ofthe EC. “I
have never actually
read one.”

Hughes consistent-
ly refused to answer
questions about the
confusion amongst
EC members.

The lack of agree-
ment, even under-
standing, by the EC
members has left
other students
involved in the
process unclear about
their responsibilities.

“To be honest, at
the time, I didn’t
really get what it was
about,” said Kevin
Coppersmith, a stu-
dent who appeared as
a character witness
for this case. “They
gave me a sheet of
paper, and I signed

“It really is for the
safety of the student,"
she said in a telephone interview. "The way I see it, the
conﬁdentiality agreement is binding on the members of
the EC, but as for the student, he is free to talk.“

Other members of the EC contradicted her statement.
most giving different readings of the White Book pas-
sages.

“I believe that the conﬁdentiality agreement applies to
the entire student body,” said Lane Morgan, Class of
2007 representative. “Out of respect for the system,
nobody, even the witnesses, the accused or friends of the
accused should speak about the facts of the case."

Unlike Johansen, Morgan said that if campus newspa-
pers published detailed reports about the case, they
would have been in violation of the conﬁdentiality
agreement, and open to punishment. The White Book
recommends social probation, academic probation and

it."

EC members insist
that Coppersmith was free to ask questions during the
hearing, but Coppersmith says he was too emotional to
understand what he was being told.

While the speciﬁcs of this case appear to show that
the student involved was, in fact, guilty, the lack of clar-
ity in the process, and the inconsistent understanding of
the rules, even by EC members. raises legitimate ques-
tions about other trials at Washington and Lee.

EC representative Marie Trimble said that since stu-
dents misunderstand, or willfully disobey the conﬁden-
tiality agreements, every honor violation hearing leads
to rumors and confusion that the EC can do little to dis-
pel.

“Everybody is bothered that the EC always says ‘no
comment,”’ Trimble said, “but we are not commenting
because we are bound by the system."

Special Edition

By Kaylee Hartung

After the recent withdrawal of a
student facing an open student
body hearing, confusion in regard
to the Executive Committee's
interpretation of the White Book
and its administrative process has
raised concern amongst the stu-
dent body.

Administrative matters for EC
hearings and student body hear-
ings are outlined in the White
Book, the Honor System's hand-
book.

With the last student body heat-
ing held nine years ago, the con-
troversy surrounding a student
body hearing is relatively new to
the current W&L community. EC
members refrained from com-
menting.

The White Book requires the
EC to inform the accused of the
charges presented against them at
least 48 hours before the sched-
uled EC hearing. All time ﬁames
exclude weekends and holidays.
But is 48 hours enough time to
prepare for an Executive
Committee or student body hear-
ing? Forrner EC Vice President
and current honor advocate Kevin
White says no.

“It is ridiculous that students are
only given two days to prepare for
a hearing," said White. "In actual-
ity, the EC gives the accused more
time, but the time given is still
insufﬁcient."

"I don't think the EC under-
stands the amount of time that is
required to build an effective
defense," said White. He acknowl-
edged that as a member of the EC
he also took for granted the
amount of time necessary to craﬂ
a solid defense.

White now sees things from a
different perspective while serv-
ing as an honor advocate as
opposed to an EC member. He
said he believes the EC needs to
increase the time allotted for stu-

dents and their defense to prepare
for EC hearings. White has debat-
ed proposing an amendment to the
White Book during Spring Term.

Gauging the amount of time
necessary to prepare a defense is a
difﬁcult task. Outside of fact-gath-
ering and pre-trial preparation,
students must also prepare them-
selves psychologically.

EC President-elect Marie
Trimble disagrees with White's
opinion. She supports the 48-hour
rule.

"You don't need more than 48
hours to prepare the truth," said
Trimble. "The goal of the Honor
System is to ﬁnd the truth. This is
a fact-ﬁnding process and we are
trying to find the truth. We are not
out to get a student. We're going
off people's honor that they want
us to ﬁnd the tnrth as badly as we
do."

In the aforementioned case, an
anonymous source has said the
accused was formally charged by
the EC on March 1. The hearing
was initially scheduled for March
4, but the accused was granted a
two-week extension due to exten-
uating circumstances. The EC
hearing was eventually held on
March 16. The guilty verdict was
handed down in the early hours of
the next day.

After a student is convicted of
an honor violation in an EC hear-
ing, the student is allowed 72
hours to submit an appeal, unless
otherwise speciﬁed by the presi-
dent of the EC. According to an
anonymous source, the accused
was again granted an extension,

[this time in order to allow time for
a meeting with University

President Thomas Burish on
March 22.
After a meeting with Burish, the
accused notiﬁed the EC that an
appeal to reopen the case would
be submitted. The appeal was om-
cially ﬁled on March 25 and
denied later that day by the EC.

Enough time?

Fomier EC vice president questions student heating process

If the student then appeals for a
second time to a student body
hearing, the selected student chair
of the case is required to announce
the date of the student body hear-
ing within ﬁve days after the
appeal is made.

An anonymous source said the
accused was notiﬁed on Monday
that the hearing would be held less
than three days later on Thursday
at 8 a.m. According to the White
Book, the time period between the
announcement of the hearing and
the hearing must be within ﬁve
days; however, this time period
may be extended under the discre-
tion ofthe chair.

The accused withdrew from the

university on Wednesday.
White and Trimble could not com-
ment on the administrative
process of a student body hearing
because neither student had prior
experience with such a hearing.

The EC had the option to extend
the time period within which to
hold the student body hearing, but
chose not to exercise that power. If
the accused student had been
declared guilty by the jury during
the student body hearing, the stu-
dent's winter credits would have
been nulliﬁed because the original
verdict was decided upon before
the end of Winter Term.

Potential jurors were contacted
Tuesday, the day after the accused
was informed of the date of the
hearing and two days before the
hearing date.

There are no conditions in the
White Book to specify the EC’s
terms upon which they must
announce a student body hearing
to the student body. In the recent
incident, students were not ofﬁ-
cially made aware of the hearing
until ll:43 a.m. on the day prior to
the hearing.

EC members refused to com-
ment on why the university com-
munity was not informed earlier
of the hearing.

Accused says Security threatened conﬁdentiality

By Tyler Archie

A preemptive investigation by
Washington and Lee security may
have undermined the conﬁdentiality
of the recent Executive Committee's
investigation ofan Honor Violation.
The breach of conﬁdentiality raises
questions regarding the EC’s ability
to address rumors of the case circu-
lating in the student body.

According to the accused student,
who has since withdrawn, he failed
to retum a Traveler van on time the
weekend ofJan. 9.

The incident took on greater sig-
niﬁcance when W&L security offi-
cer Steve Tomlinson, a member of
the Traveler management board,
took issue with the van’s late arrival.
and the accuser‘s version of that
story, later that month on Jan. 27.

The student in question then con-

ﬁded to roommates about the con-
frontation, before he knew that “it
was in any way related to an honor
violation.”

Any student involved in an EC
investigation is bound by conﬁden-
tiality, per the White Book. Since
W&L security and faculty are not
bound by the Honor System, the
January investigation was less than
airtight. Anyone questioned during
that time could have openly talked
about what happened.

“Conﬁdentiality doesn't work in
practice because people talk to their
friends, and from there it mush-
rooms," said former EC member
Jeremiah Mcwilliams.

"I found out from my roommate,
who heard from a friend that securi-
ty 'was pursuing the matter as an
HV...and had turned it in," said the
accused. who was supposed to have

knowledge ofthe EC’s investigation
only in the 48 hours leading up to
his closed hearing.

At this point the accused contact-
ed the “appropriate faculty" to dis-
cuss the matter.

In the absence of conﬁdentiality, the
EC went about answering all queries
by students into the matter with a uni-
ﬁed stance of “no comment"

“The EC is very concerned with
protecting the EC," said former EC
member Jeremiah McWilliams.
“There are ways of letting people
know (about investigations) without
harming the student."

However, rumors left the accused
vulnerable in the forum of public
opinion.

“If anything (the loss ofconﬁden-
tiality) hurts him, because the dam-
age to his reputation can't be
repaired," said McWilliarns.

Facing the prospect of a jury com-
prised of the student body later in
the process, public opinion and
I’LLITIOI' were certainly a concern for
the accused. However, once he was
included in the EC investigation,
addressing these rumors was impos-
sible for the accused due to the
White Book's conﬁdentiality
requirement.

“How are you supposed to deal
with that emotionally," questioned a
roommate of the accused. “If (he)
weren't as strong a character, he
would have jumped off a bridge by
now."

Similarly, EC President Helen
Hughes was careful with her words
and exhausted by the week's events.

“This has been a learning process
for us all.”

Phil Walotrky, Kaylee Hanwtgand Geoﬂ
Rogow contributed to this report

E-mail angers students
By Geoff Rogow

When a letter from the Executive Committee reached the Washington
and Lee community by e-mail yesterday morning, few students were sur-
prised to see the news. Contradicting the EC ‘s foundation in secrecy, the
rumor mill had already spread infonnation on the case throughout the
university.

What was surprising to many students was the EC prohibited a laun-
dry list of items from entering Lee Chapel during the trial.

“My ﬁrst reaction was that it was ridiculous. None of us have seen an
open trial before, and students should be allowed to take notes and see
how the EC handles it," said former EC Class of 2005 representative
Jeremiah McWilliams.

EC President Helen Hughes said the committee receives all of their
cues directly from the White Book. McWilliams, who decided not to run
for reelection because he did not have enough time, said he could not
ﬁnd any information in the White Book stating these items should be
prohibited.

One relevant clause from Section III: Administrative Matters says,
“No information about the Student Body Hearing is allowed outside the
Washington and Lee community."

See E-mail, page 2

Complicated jury selection process clariﬁed

By Andrew Latimer

Despite instructions from the Executive Committee to
keep jury details conﬁdential, several students have
come forward with information regarding thejury selec-
tion process that took place in anticipation of the now-
aborted student body hearing slated for April I.

Calls forjurors began in earnest at some time around
noon on Tuesday after the University Registrar fur-
nished the Executive Committee and Sergeant—at—Anns
Daniel Wolf ‘O4L with a randomized list of 75 universi-
ty students and their contact information.

Those selected were told the date of the hearing but
were not instructed over the phone about any aspects of
conﬁdentiality. Some chose to disclose news of their
selection to friends in the period between the call and
the interview.

Questioning was described as organized and curt.
Most questions were pre-prepared, and neither side
seemed to exhaust their supplies in the allotted time.

    

...' (Isa

JAl‘vlES G. LEVBURN Lllx3é1Eﬁ:Y

Central EC questions focused on deﬁnitions of the
honor system and what constitutes a breach of commu-
nity trust.

Interviews were conducted starting in the late aﬁer-
noon in the jury room adjacent to the Moot Courtroom
of the Law School. They continued until the three advo-
cates of the EC and four of the accused settled upon and
selected 12 student jurors and two alternates.

Prospective jurors were instructed at the outset of
their 10-minute interviews by student body hearing
Chair Evan Sauda ‘04L to hold details regarding ques-
tioning and any information about the case conﬁdential.
In accordance with White Book procedure, Sauda read
the names of the accused and witnesses and then asked
each student the standard six questions from student
hearing guidelines (see fact box).

The interview then opened up to queries from both the
EC advocates and those of the accused for the remainder
of the 10-minute slot. Several students declined to speak
about speciﬁcs of the interview. A handful who spoke

War 2084

  

with the paper revealed the advocates’ lines of question-
ing. Their tactics varied according to responses to the
chair's questions. Advocates of the accused tended to

VtIl'IaBuokPromduebt’tfB&!.1atBodyHea'!u. ll. Sdet'1bno1theJuy
1. Do you know any of the facts of this case?

2. Do you know the accused personally’!

3. is your relationship with the accused, the advocates, any witness.
or the Chair sud) that it may allect your ability to be impartial?

4. Do you have any opinions about the Executive Committee which
would inhton your ability to render a dedslon based solely on the
(acts?

5. Do you have any opinions about the Honor System which would
Inhibit your ability to render a decision based solely on the (acts?

6. Do you believe In the single sanction?

stay quiet if the potential juror indicated any prior
knowledge of the case, whereas in other sessions the
questioning was more even-balanced.

According to the White Book, it is at the chairs dis-
cretion to strike any potential juror with knowledge of
the case or the accused, or those who have serious oppo-

sition to the precepts of the Honor System or the single
sanction system.

The advocates of the EC and the accused are allowed
a total of three preemptory strikes each over the entire
selection process. Two per side are permitted after 15
students interviewed have passed the chair’s question-
ing, and the remaining one strike per side occurs aﬁer
the process reaches I6 prospective jurors.

Students who made the ﬁnal cut received phone calls
at an undisclosed time. As of press time, none ofthe 14
selections agreed to an interview.

While it is unclear when the status of the jury was
ﬁnalized, sources indicate that the process that began
late Tuesday aﬁemoon had concluded before midnight
and without exhausting the entire 75-student pool. It is
also unclear how many students declined to report for
their scheduled interviews.

It is also unknown whether or not the ﬁnal 14 received
their White Books or had selected a foreman before the
hearing was canceled Wednesday.

Thursday, April 1, 2004

 

 

Op-Ed

Page 2

EC: Are you accountable?

By Jeremy Franklin and Jake Trotter

The recent withdrawal of a Washington and Lee stu-
dent convicted by the Executive Committee of an
honor violation, and the circumstances surrounding a
student body hearing that was cancelled at the last
moment, warrant a reappraisal of how the EC and the
Honor System work.

The two weekly campus newspapers have decided
that this should occur immediately, and thus you’re
reading a special combined edition of The Ring-tum
Phi and The Trident.

Many columnists and letter writers to both newspa-
pers have criticized the EC's practices over the past
few weeks, and such a large volume of questioning
should cause the entire W&L community to step back
and ask, simply, “What's going on?"

Regardless of its intent, in the minds of many stu-
dents the EC has painted its own portrait as a secretive
organization that uses its almost unlimited power to
enforce its own twisted interpretation of the Honor
System. There. It‘s been said.

Since W&L is such a small and enclosed campus,
every undergraduate or law student likely knows at
least one EC member personally. We can count eight
whom we’ve gotten to know at least reasonably well.
They're not like this one-on-one; nor do they come
across as such.

But the EC is a representative body, and it's not act-
ing the part.

EC elections are nothing more than popularity con-
tests, with no debate about issues affecting W&L.
Perhaps if actual campaigns were waged, if victors felt

they had actually won something more than a mere
numerical tally, then the character of the EC could
begin to change.

But making elections real tests of campus democra-
cy is not enough.

Conﬁdentiality requirements, silence toward the
press and gag orders prohibit any forum of accounta-
bility for the EC.

On what basis does the student body elect or reelect
its ofﬁcials when no one knows what they stand for?
We hear what they say; yet the facts behind their
actions are not disclosed per the White Book.

Ifthis confuses you, as it should, we'll draw a sim-
ple analogy.

Imagine a Supreme Court that does not disclose its
interpretations of justice or law, or even how individ-
ual justices voted on a particular issue. Then remember
that the court is unelected and has no fonnal legislative
function, so it is only indirectly accountable to the peo-
ple. The EC, however, is directly elected, and through
its budgetary powers it functions as a student senate.
The EC also has the undisputed power of interpreting
the Honor System.

Certain instances of “lying, cheating, and stealing"
are obvious honor violations and should be dealt with
as such.

But in the realm of gray areas, the student body does
not know what constitutes an honor violation because
prior EC rulings are neither acknowledged nor applied.
Thus the deﬁnition of an honor violation ﬂuctuates
based on the composition of the EC in any given year.

The trial of this unfortunate student has raised sever-
al other issues about honor violations and how EC

Executive Editors

Staff

Tyler Archie
Jeremy Franklin
Kaylee Hartung
Andrew Latimer

Geoff Rogow
Mehul Srivastava

Phil Walotsky

Stat? was composed temporarily
for combined issue.

The Ring-tum Phi & The Trident

Katie Howell and Jake Trotter

I:

 By Andrew Latimer

Disclaimer

ideas expressed in special edition combined issue are not
intended as malicious toward any member of the student
body. They are simply a forum to discuss the state of the
Honor System and other current issues on campus. The
goal is to improve life at Washington and Lee.

Modiﬁed from a March 17, 1995 Phi

E-mail from page 1

prosecution works.

The news stories in this special edition should, hope-
fully, shed some light on conﬁdentiality, communica-
tion, timing and the history of EC trials.

Conﬁdentiality may be the most troubling concern.

“All information about a possible Honor Violation
or an Executive Committee Hearing is highly conﬁ-
dential," says the White Book. “The Executive
Committee may take disciplinary steps... against any
student involved in an investigation, any student wit-
ness in a hearing, any advocate, any Executive
Committee member, or the accused for breaking this
conﬁdentiality."

That takes care of everyone directly involved in an
EC investigation. More importantly, it leaves out the
remainder of the student body or W&L faculty and
staff. Conﬁdentiality among 25 people is worthless in
a community of 2,500, especially when the future ofa
fellow is in the balance.

Itseerns thatthis conﬁdenﬁalityoﬂtrrsprotection tbrtheEC,
not the accused (after all, the student neariy watt public with
thefactsofthecasetmtilhewastlrreatenedwithsusperrsionby
the EC fbr the retroactive breach of a conﬁdentiality agree-
ment). Dowft the conﬁdentiality agreement protect the EC
fromthereprisalofmakirtgamistakeoran unpopularjudg-
ment?

On Tuesday night, Trident news editor Tyler Archie
was attempting to gather information on the student's
trial, originally scheduled to begin at 8 am. today. The
purpose of gathering this information was to address
the facts of the case and quell rumors that had been
floating around campus.

However, Archie’s sources, who signed conﬁden-

tiality agreements only after disclosing information,
claimed they were threatened by the EC with suspen-
sion if the story ran and pleaded with The Trident to
kill the story, which the newspaper summarily did.

Later when The Trident asked to simply explain the
details ofthe proceedings, EC president Helen Hughes
declined to provide information.

“As the White Book says, ‘appropriate announce-
ments will be made.’ Thank you," Hughes responded.

Which leads us to address yesterday’s campus-wide
e-mail. The e—mail forbade students from bringing
notepads, pens or any other means of recording the
proceedings to Lee Chapel. Their attempt to limit what
information is disseminated is contrary to the fact that
oﬁicial releases on withdrawn or convicted students
are printed in the Phi and the Trident and are posted on
the EC's Web site.

The conﬁdentiality clause of the White Book
inhibits any student who attends the hearing from dis-
closing details. To draw a parallel to the U.S. justice
system, prohibiting the press from reporting on an
open trial would be a blatant abridgement ofthe press,
a violation of the First Amendment and a serious
infraction of the Sixth Amendment, which guarantees
citizens the right to a fair trial.

We hope the EC will respond to these charges and
concerns. Aﬂer all, as eloquently stated by Supreme
Court Justice Louis Brandeis, “The remedy for bad
speech is more speech."

Only if we are allowed to express our views in the
open marketplace of ideas can Washington and Lee
evolve. If we are censored, silenced or ignored, we
become what we dread most: dishonored.

Full report on today’s student body
honor violation hearing

  

  

McWilliams‘ criticisms stretch
beyond this moming’s letter, as he
said the EC needed to explain the

appeal process bet-
ter. Even as a for-
mer EC member, he
did not know many
of the details with-
out searching the
White Book. He
said the EC must
continually weigh
the charged stu-
dent’s right to
secrecy against the
campus’s desire to
know more.

McWilliams said
there are ways of
telling the universi-
ty without harming
the student, and uni-
versity members
should be told the
reasoning ofa deci-
sion.

“They've been

better (at informing
the student body) over the last few
months, but this was a missed
opportunity," McWilliams said.
Instead, the EC could have used the
trial astheperfectfonim forstudentsto
see how the Honor System works. For
example, the EC's speciﬁc role is to ﬁnd
outthefactsofacaseandthendetermine
the punishment by using the penalty set

by the White Book

McWilliams said the EC wants
everything in a case to be conﬁden-
tial. It can best be done by limiting
information and maintaining secre-
cy. If the system had worked,
McWilliams said no one would have
learned about the trial beforehand.

 

McWrlliams

  

Marino

 

McWilliams’ hope, however, did
not come true. Of the 12 students
contacted for this story, only one

was unaware that a
former student was
going to appeal to
the university
before this mom-
ing. Many of them
even knew speciﬁc
facts of the case,
and said they
received this infor-
mation from several
different sources,
including faculty,
students and staff
members of the
university.

All 12 students
refused to give their
names in fear ofEC
p u n i s h m e n t .
Although it is not
against EC rules to
speak about a trial
that never took
place, or an open letter

to the community, all of these stu-
dents still refused to comment on
the record.

“I don't know where the line is,
and i don't want to guess," said one
anonymous senior.

Some students closer to the case
reﬁrsedtooommentiritbarofdirectmes-
sages from the Executive Committee

about possible ran-liﬁmtiorrs.

report.

“Every message they sent has a
threat. Their job is to make the
school better but they completely
twisted original intent," said Matt
Marino, a friend of the accused.

Tyler Archie contributed to this

Ex-student tells all

Braswell, convicted by Honor System, analyzes procedure

By Phil Walotsky

At the beginning of his freshman year at
Washington and Lee, Anderson Braswell attend-
ed the mandatory Honor System orientation in
Lee Chapel just as every incoming freshman had
for generations. While there, he gained a certain
respect for the Honor System when the famous-
ly intense "Leave Now" speech was delivered.
Leaving the Chapel, Braswell turned to a room-
mate and commented how scary, seemingly, one
could be convicted for anything.

Almost one year later, the irony was over-
whelming. In April of 2002, Braswell was
informed that he was being investigated for an
honor violation. The alleged violation was a case
dealing with plagiarism. However, Braswell's
case was put off until the fall.

"They first notiﬁed me about it in April. I did-
n't even get a chance to meet with my advocates
until September or October," said Braswell. "I
had it hanging over my head all Spring Term,
had it hanging over my head all summer and
came back to school with it still hanging over
my head." Braswell also said that he "didn't
know anything - they said ‘You're being investi-
gated,’ and that's all they say."

But according to Braswell, the problems only
started there. From early on, Braswell felt that
the Executive Committee handled the case with
a low degree of professionalism and a general
disregard for his most basic rights.

"As soon as the professor turned my name in,
they treated me like I was guilty and they were
doing me a favor by listening to me," said
Braswell. "I don't feel like anyone in the process
seriously considered my case." As an example of
inattentive questions, Braswell noted that one
EC member asked him a question about his
handwriting even though the entire document in

question was on a computer.

"They asked questions that were looking for
answers, but most were pointed questions," said
Braswell. "Anytime you'd talk to them, they'd
be attacking you. The screwed—up thing is that
they're supposed to look at this objectively. They
are not supposed to say, 'You're guilty unless you
can prove this otherwise.”

Additionally, Braswell said conﬁdentiality
was a very large problem in his trial. He said he
overheard professors discussing his case in the
hallways ofacademic buildings. Because ofthis,
Braswell said he felt that even if found not
guilty, he would still face problems in the class-
room.

"If you go in front of the EC, every single prc»
fessor will know, and they will look at you with
doubt ﬁom then on. You can stay technically, but
you're ruined," he said. a

Braswell said that after a short period oftime,
the pressure and aggressive questioning became
psychologically damaging.

According to Braswell, the questioning can
and frequently does tum hostile. “They say, ‘It
looks like you did this, didn't you’?‘''

'‘I don't think anyone can fathom the psy-
chological aspects of going to trial," he
said. "l'm a fairly strong person. Things
don't bother me. But l was an absolute
wreck going into trial."

Braswell said, not even the testimony of the
accusing professor convinced the EC of his
innocence. “The biggest detail of my trial was
that the professor said - and this is on record -
'No, I don't think he did it. I think it was just a
mistake.’ They had it recorded on audiotape."

Months of investigations and inquiries didn't just
pay a toll on Braswell personally, but also on his
entire family. He described his decision not to go to
an open student body hearing as "simple."

"My dad got ﬁred from his job," said
Braswell. "My parents were there and they had
to have all these meetings. He got tired because
he had to keep coming down for all this EC
stuff"

Because of his father's unemployment,
Braswell was unable to pay W&L's relatively
high tuition when compared to the costs ofpub-
lic universities.

"When your dad gets ﬁred, you can't afford
$30,000 a year. Had he not got ﬁred l deﬁnitely
would have taken it to an open hearing."

Overall, Braswell was troubled by the EC's
lack of professionalism and hostile questioning
tactics, describing the situation as a "witch
hunt."

"I felt like I was being put in front of the
homecoming court, not the honor council," said
Braswell. "l have to say the president, Gerald
Titus, did the bestjob he could do, but the rest of
them were a joke. He did everything he could
do, but hejust couldn't control them.

"I think they need to read their own book and
understand what it says. The only person that
had a clue was the president," he said. "The idea
in the book is good, but it has to be more profes-
sional."

Despite his unfortunate past circum-
stances, Braswell has managed to recover
well. The junior currently attends James
Madison University, where he plays foot-
ball and is an active member of a fraterni-
ty, all while maintaining a 3.5 GPA. And
through it all, he says he never has grown
bitter toward Washington and Lee.

"I still love W&L, but l feel that W&L is being
held hostage," said Braswell. "The student body
was really supportive of me. But something
needs to be done. Nobody should have to go
through this."

