<4

  

THE

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDIT()R—IN-CHIEF

In a meeting with Greek Presidents Friday after-
noon, President Burish and Dean Watkins expressed
concern about the prevalence of sexual assault on Wash-
ington and Lee’s campus. ,

“Sexual assault is a serious issue that we will not
ignore or address with anything less than determined
resolve,” Burish said.

A “I was really impressed with the manner in
which they approached us,” said Celia Landgren,
president of Kappa Delta. “They were in no way
trying to come down on the Greek system. They
in no way said you are part of the problem.”

The IFC and Panhel agreed to lead initia-
tives against sexual assault on campus. Adminis-

 p y The student voice of Washington and M University time 7897
Presidents hold emergency meeting about alleged abuse

trators called the meeting as, “an attempt to stop
it right now, at the beginning of the school year,”
said Tim Kolly, Interim Director of
Communicationsand External
Relations.

Burish and Watkins met
with Greek leaders first because,
“Fraternity and sorority leadership
are leaders of 75 to 80 percent of
our student population,” Watkins

They were in no way trying
to come down on the Greek
system. They in no way
said you are part of the

“I don’t think the administration in any way
wants to blame Greek organizations for this problem,
but rather encourage them to help ﬁnd solutions for it,”
said Susan Somers, president of Pi
Beta Phi. -

“We didn’t go in there with a
particular agenda," Watkins said. “It
was a meeting where we were say-
ing we want this to be of concern
and we want you to help us.”

said. “We wanted to go to them problem‘ Watkins said that the Stu-
to say you are the leaders in these CELIA LANDGREN dent Faculty Hearing Board has
areas and we want your help.” PREHDENT OI,-KAPPA DELI/I not found anyone guilty of sexual

The meeting was called on ' assault in her time at Washington

short notice because, “if you’re
really concerned and get reports...you don’t wait
for a regular meeting,” Kolly said.

Popular Chinese restaurant falls
short on routine health inspection

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDlTOR—IN—CI-IIEF

“There were live baby roaches crawling on
the walls in the kitchen.”

The Department of Health’s Inspection Re-
port recorded these observations after a routine
inspection of Hunan Garden.

This first inspection, dating back to June 18,
2004, listed eleven critical and six non—critical health
violations.

' Critical violations pose a direct or immediate

threat to the safety of the food being served. Non
critical violations represent a failure of cleaning or
maintenance.

When Health Department ofﬁcials returned
to Hunan’s on July 13, they listed two critical and
four non—critical health violations.

Hunan Garden’s manager said everything has
been ﬁxed. He also said that the Health Depart-
ment has not returned for any more inspections
since its July 13th inspection.

Hunan Garden has been a popular student

destination for years. Some Greek Organizations
even use the venue for social gatherings.

“It’s disgusting,” said Kelly Jo Larsen, ’05,
“it very much grossed me out. I will not be visiting
Hunan Garden any time soon.”

Larsen received the Health Department’s in-
spection report about Hunan Garden’s violations
through an email forwarded to her by fellow Wash-
ington and Lee student Joseph Franzen.

The Virginia Department of Health’s website
cautions that, “An inspection conducted on any
given day may not be representative of the overall,
long-terrn cleanliness of an establishment. Also, at
the time of the inspection violations are recorded
but are often corrected on—the—spot prior to the in-
spectqr leaving the establishment.”

“The mechanical dishmachine was not sani-
tizing. The final rinse must reach a minimum of l80°F
in the ﬁnal rinse,” and “Observed the use of gar-
bage bags to store food in the walk-in units,” were
the remaining critical violations observed by the
Department of Health

Flu Vaccine shortage prompts rationing

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR—[N—CHIEF

Because the national sup-
ply of influenza vaccine has been
cut in half this year, the Center
for Disease Control is-
sued recommendations
for distribution.

According to Dr.
Jane Horton in the Health
Center, Washington and
Lee received about half
of its vaccine order. The
Health Center will pro-
vide vaccinations to members of
the University community who
fall into the priority groups.

After Washington and

Lee’s priority groups are vacci-
nated, Dr. Horton plans on tum-
ing the University’s extra vacci-
nations over to the Lexington
community, which does not have
vaccinations. “We will work with

 

people in the community about

* who else needs it,” she said.

In the past, Washington

and Lee has not achieved better

than a 25% immunization rate.
The University has never
achieved “herd protection,”
Horton said.

While it is likely that there
will be more ﬂu illness this sea-
son because students on
this campus, “live, work
and study together,”
Horton said, “it won’t be
especially ba .”

Horton recommends
washing hands frequently
and using hand sanitizer
so that germs are not
spread to keyboards and door-
knobs.

“I would buy stock in
Purell if I were you,” Horton said.

“'3 _ 
SAHAR KAMILI THE RING -TL/‘M PHI

LIPTING A LEG FOR SERVICE. As part of the Fall Service Challenge, Addy Ng Volunteers with the SPCA by taking
this pup for a walk. Over one hundred ﬁfty students participated in the Nabors sponsored event.

and Lee. Watkins served two years
asDeanofFreshmenandisinhersecondyearasDean
of Students.

P1 1

  

VOLUME CVlI.,No. 11
MONDAY, Ocrosnr 11,2004

Brent Beshore, president of Lambda Chi Alpha,
said that the incidence of sexual assault was presented,
“very vaguely” at the meeting. A

According to Beshorc, everyone at the meeting
was, ‘—‘in agreement that that has no place on campus
and shouldn’t happen ever,” he said.

“The fratemity leadership on campus is grateful
that the University trusts its leaders enough to share
its concerns and confront the problem head on,” said
Thomas Pickering, IFC President.

“I was excited to hear the‘IFC offer up the sug-
gestion of working along with Panhel,” Landgnen said.

The IFC and Panhellenic Council have commit-
ted to presenting a report making recommendations by

November 8”‘. Individual presidents will talk to their

Greek chapters about possible solutions and convene
again to write up their report.

 

I BY KATHERINE SHELL
' ASST. NEWS EDITOR

This week, the W&L Law School celebrated
Coming Out Week sponsored by GayLaw. Na-
tional Coming Out Day falls on October 1 1 in cel-
ebration of the 1987 March on Washington for
Lesbian and Gay Rights. Events included pre-
sentations during the week, and a drag show last
Friday night.

“We’ve done Coming Out Week stuff this
week so as to avoid the mass exodus produced
by fall break,” says Tammy Graham Law ‘O6, a
Tri—Executive Chair for GayLaw.

Monday night, GayLaw sponsored speak-
ers Jill Lowelland Patricia Jones, who discussed
-their study of Transgender and Bisexual issues
in the Law.

On Wednesday, students were invited to a
presentation given by Project Horizon on domes-
tic violence from a same-sex perspective, as well
as a ﬁlm presentation later in the evening of

ﬁnches patches: a non-scripted conversation

/Drag show features W&L students

GayLaw sponsors Coming Out Week

\

about a man’s lifetime.” . .

Thursday night, GayLaw presented the film
“Juggling Genders” with a discussion following
led by Professor Theresa Braunschneider, As-
sistant Professor of English at W&L.

The Drag Show Friday night was held on
the Law School Lawn.

GayLaw’s Coming Out Week attempted to
make the W&L community more aware about Gay,
Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender issues. Gra-
ham said, “As for coming out, I seriously doubt
we’ll have any of that.”

The theme for Coming Out Day 2004 is
“Come Out. Speak Out. Vote.”

Students interested in learning more about
GayLaw should contact Graham at
graharnt@wlu.edu. Those interested in becom-
ing part of an undergraduate organization dedi-
cated to increasing awareness of Gay, Lesbian
and Bisexual issues on campus should contact
the Gay Straight Alliance at gsa@wlu.edu.
—Photos by Sahar Kamali of the Ring—tum Phy

Nabors brings out over one hundred ﬁfty
student Volunteers for Fall Service Challenge

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Over 150 student volunteers ﬂooded
Rockbridge County last Saturday for Nabors Ser-
vice League’s second annual Fall Service Challenge.

Nabors collaborated with Habitat for Human-
ity for the first time this year, a move that brings
more funding and projects to the table for future
Challenges, according to co-chair Sonia Siu.

Volunteers ranked 17
service projects by order of
preference when signing up
for the Challenge. Among the
more popular are apple-pick-
ing for the needy and a House
Mountain clean-up, said Siu.
Other projects include
yardwork in Glasgow, Habitat
construction, and a road race
benefiting the Rockbridge

. Area Transportation System.

Another group visited
the Manor at Natural Bridge, a rest home, to paint
their dining rooms. The group previously painted
the facility’s day room. According to charge nurse
Angela Salinas, the Manor is always eager to wel-
come N abors back. i

The larger projects weren’t more important
than the smaller ones. Groups with only a few stu-
dents made just as much of an impact.

“It’s so hard to get someone to help you,"
said one woman whose windows need repairing

“In its second year, Fall Service
Challenge continues to grow, and
I look forward to seeing so many
people do community service for

the greater Lexington area.”
NOBLE STAFFORD
NABORS CO-CHAIR

before winter. .

Volunteers congregated at a lunch on
Cannan’s Green between their projects, where they
received a commemorative water bottle for their ef-
forts. -
Siu believes the Challenge is gathering an
increasing following in the university community.
“This year we’re actually looking at a bigger com-
mitment,” she said, noting, “Last year about 140
[people] signed up but about 90 came.”

Siu’s co-chair Noble
Stafford agreed that this
year’s response was stronger.
“We attribute this to the com-
bination of Habitat for Hu-
manity and Nabors Service
League for one day of ser-
vice.”

According to Siu,
Nabors will move outward if
the Challenge continues to
grow. “The issue that we have
is that Lexington is, after all, a
pretty small community, so there are only so many
projects,” said Siu. “So I don’t know how many
more people we can accommodate, but we’re hop-
ing it becomes a more. . .well—known day in the year,
and that more people will consider doing it, and,
once they sign up for it, truly commit to doing it."

“In its second year, Fall Service Challenge
continues to grow, and I look forward to seeing so
many people do community service for the greater
Lexington area,” said Stafford.

 

  

  tEYE3t.iRn' Limztm
‘u.-‘\~.“~;Hit\l‘t§ TON  LEE UNNERSM
: "“'V-"-‘.Tr‘9l\= :-.m_ T3/.\'z*,_I_=,‘()

OCT 1 2 20%
PAGE 2

m

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER

“Don’t be alarmed by si-
rens going off and emergency ve-
hicles corning to VMI.”

That was the warning is-
sued to the community from a
VMI press release on Sept. 30.
But it’s hard for an outsider not
to feela little alarmed upon see-
ing Lexington’s most martial in-
stitution in an apparent state of
emergency.

Every student, faculty and
staff member at the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute was assembled on
the Parade Ground last Tuesday.
The large ﬁeld was ﬂanked by
emergency vehicles— four police
cars, two fire trucks, and two am-
bulances to be exact.

Have we been attacked by
terrorists? Has George W. Bush
come for a secret visit and been
shot?

Not exactly, said Stewart D.
Maclnnis, Associate Director of
Communications and Marketing
at VMI. The events of last Tues-
day morning were part of a new
state-mandated test designed to
assess the ability of all state agencies to respond
to emergencies. According to Maclnnis, while the
mandated drill wasn’t speciﬁcally for terrorist ac-
tivities, the mandate “grew out of the heightened
awareness of terrorism.”

From afar, the ﬁeld seemed to bristle with ca-
dets at attention.. But a closer looks proved other-
wise. Blue frisbees and brown footballs soared
above the crowd. Cadets darting about like kids at
recess. Some stretched out on the ground with their
hands under their heads, like Parisians in a public
park on a holiday.

While cadets huddled in the middle of the

Relax, VMI state of emergency just a drill

 

News

"rii:l‘iiu"r'n?~.il}i«3

ﬁeld, staff members lounged on the edges of the
lawn; Many brought lawn chairs, blankets, and hot
beverages and are chatting and laughing. This is a
crowd one might expect to see at a high school
football game instead of a place where an ambu-
lance with all its doors open appears ready for ac-
tion on the lawn before them.

Despite the emergency vehicles and air of
tension they created, the cadets, faculty, and staff
were relaxed. This was no emergency— it’s just an
elaborate drill.

While the cadets looked happy enough, not
all of them were pleased about the drill. Many of

Phi Q & A: Margaret Wilkins
Freshman EC Representative gives her take on honor

believe that every student is able to trust one another because of the Honor
System. I wanted to be a part of upholding this fundamental facet of our

BY WHITNEY DUFFEY

STAFF WRITER

school.

THE RING-M PHI
VEEMEE ALERT. Don’t worry everyone, the Keydets are ready to protect us if terrorists strike our conservative stronghold.

ASHLEY METZLOF

them were upset because the drill took up pre-
cious break time they normally have in the mom-
mg.

While the theme of Tuesday’s drill was a
gas leak instead of a terrorist attack, the same ac-
tions could be applied to a terrorism situation,
Maclnnis said. According to him, “The point was
to respond.” p

And respond they did. The exercise was ex-
pected to take an hour and a half, but the exercise

' took only thirty minutes. And as the evacuated

dining staff laid out lunch on the lawn, the emer-
gency drill wound down into a summery picnic.

W: Can you give me part of what your basic platform was?

The Executive Committee - they not only act as the student govem-
ment here at W&L, allocating funds to student organizations and managing
the Student Activity Fee, but also hold the responsibility of administering the
Honor System, serving as those students to whom an HV can be reported
and as the renders of a guilty or innocent verdict. They seem distant from the
student body, but in reality their decisions shape the daily life of the average
W&L student.

This is why it is important for the student body to be aware of and to
comprehend the workings of this body and to be familiar with their represen-
tatives. This belief prompted an interview with the newly elected Freshman
EC representative, Margaret Elkins, about her carn— '
paign, her current activities within the EC, and her
overall W&L experience. Here are some excerpts
from our conversation:

VVHITNEYZ So, just a little bit about your back-
ground before you carne to W&L: what’s your home-
town? What was your high school like - big or small,
public or private?

MARGARET: Houston, Texas. I went to a rela-
tively small, l28 in my graduating class, private high
school.

W: And what kinds of leadership roles did
you have in high school?

M: I was involved in student government,
was co-chair of the Chapel Guild, a spiritual club
that organized weekly non-denominational chapel
services, and was a yearbook editor.

W: Why did you choose to come to W&L?

M: I fell in love with W&L the moment I stepped onto the campus.
Every single student that I saw seemed so genuinely happy to be here, and
everyone was so welcoming and friendly. I knew that I wanted to go to a small
school where I would hopefully be able to meet all of my classmates and
attend small classes. After seeing Lexington, I loved the small, college-town
environment! And, as everyone knows, it is most definitely academically
rigorous, while at the same time having a lively and exciting social scene.

W: So, as far as your campaign, what made you decide to run for the
position of EC Representative versus Class President or SJ C Representative?

M: I honestly believe that honor is the foundation for every single
aspect of W&L. From inside the classroom to parties on the weekends, I

“I think that truly being a
representative for one’s
class means getting to know
people so that you are able
to represent their opinions.”
MARGARET ELKINS
FRESHMEN EC REPRESENTATIVE

M: [From her official platform]  . .I will be the classmate that you
come to if you suspect dishonorable behavior among other persons in our
community. I will be present at the Executive Committee Hearings, and guar-
antee that I will be unquestionably fair and impartial in all of the decisions
that .1 make. Honor deﬁnes the character of our school, and I give you my
word that my objective will always be one of upholding honor. In addition
to overseeing the Honor System, I will also be the face that you can ap-
proach with questions, opinions and complaints that need to be voiced to
the Executive Committee. As your advocate, I assure you that I will be
absolutely trustworthy in keeping things appropriately conﬁdential. I will
publicize what is going on and report back to
y’all the important happenings and the progress
being made.”

W: So, in your campaign, what do think
was your most effective tool?

M: I think that truly being a representative
for one’s class means getting to know people so
that you are able to represent their opinions. I
think my most effective campaign tool was intro-
ducing and talking to people that I had never
met.

- W: Well, it obviously worked because you
won! In spite of your victory, would you have
campaigned any differently in hindsight?

M: No, I honestly think that I campaigned
to the best of my ability.

W: Thus far, what have you and the other EC members been up to?

M: On Monday and Tuesday of this past week, I spent many hours in
Budget Hearings. In addition, we have weekly meetings on Mondays. I
actually just got back from doing Community Service with other EC.mem-
bers.

W: So in conclusion, what do you expect your role to be in the orga-
nization?

M: I think that my role on the EC will be to bring in the freshman
viewpoint to all situations. I, along with the rest of the class of 2008, am still
a new student at W&L and am still learning new things every day. I will
bring this perspective to the table. In addition, every class has its own
personality. I believe I will be able to represent the interests and concerns
of the freshmen.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004

McPherson focuses
on male behavior

BY MICHAEL PATTERSON
STAFF WRITER

A former NFL player, Don McPherson, came
to campus last Thursday to speak on violence
against women. Several W&L organizations col-
laborated to sponsor his presentation in the Com-
mons Theatre, entitled “You Throw Like a Girl,”
focused on stimulating discussion among men,
rather than using scare tactics or other preventa-
tive approaches. .«

McPherson’s speech on Thursday addressed
a broad range of topics. He spoke about racism,
alcoholism, drugs, and gender stereotypes, ﬁnd-
ing ways to tie all these issues together with the
problem of domestic violence. McPherson talked
about his own personal experiences with alcohol-
ism and drugs, and how they helped them to deal
with difﬁcult issues like violence against women.
He stressed the need to open up the discussion of
these concerns before it becomes too late. “We
wait for bad things to happen before we start to
address the problem,” he said. McPherson even
gave out his personal email address,
DGMAC9@aol.com, and encouraged students to
send him comments and questions about any is-
sues related to domestic violence.

McPherson also brought to light society’s
dangerous view of acceptable male behavior. He
said, “You know why we say ‘boys are just being
boys?’ Because they’re doing something stupid
and we don’t want to call them on it.” He wants
men to change their attitudes toward all aspects of
life, not just women.

Despite some armoying technical difﬁculties
at the beginning of his speech, McPherson kept
tlie.large crowd in the Commons Theatre engaged
throughout the presentation. He continually called
on audience members to add to the discussion,
and localized many of the issues in his speech to
the W&L campus. He also used humorous anec-
dotes effectively I
to introduce un-
comfortable is-
sues. The audi-
ence roared with
laughter one sec-
ond and was
dead silent the
next, as
McPherson ex-
plained the onii—
nous conse-
quences of the
situations we of-
ten overlook or
find funny.

McPherson
was an All American Quarterback at Syracuse Uni-
versity, and went on to play professional football
for the Philadelphia Eagles and the Houston Oilers.
He has been active in community service since his
days at Syracuse, where he gave speeches to local
high school students about the dangers of drink-
ing and driving. Since his retirement from profes-
sional football in 1994, McPherson has devoted
his time to several community service organizations.
He is the International Chairman of Athletes Help-
ing Athletes, the co—director of Athletes in Service
to America, and is currently the Executive Director
of the Sports Leadership Institute at Adelphi Uni-
versity.

McPherson has appeared on N i ghtline, Court
TV, MSNBC, Fox News, and the Oprah Winfrey
show to discuss a variety of issues like domestic.
violence, racism, and the role of professional ath-
letes in society. For the past several months, he
has been traveling to Universities around the coun-
try to speak about domestic violence.

McPherson was brought to campus in part
by a new student organization called One in Four.

-This all—male group of about twenty W&L students
‘was recognized by the EC this fall. According to
One in Four member Lucas Gredell, the group is
dedicated to helping men talk to other men about
changing harmful attitudes towards women. They
are hoping to schedule more presentations about
violence against women in November.

Project Horizon, SAMS, and the Ofﬁce of
Health Promotion also helped sponsor the event.

 

1.s\\\B-T5 "°"° ‘ﬁller
.9

   

<I>(D€I)(I>d><I><I>¢><I><l><I>(l><I><I><I)(DCDfD€I><l><I>d>d>(I>

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststrave|.com.

Spring Break 2005

 

8
EMBROIDERY
464-9042 .
637 Waddeﬂ St.
Lexington Va.

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity,Party

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica

Panama City & Daytona $159

Cruise!

the news section!

Write for

  e-mail

   m Jrrays@wlu-.-edu   

From $459

MAKE YOUR OWN HOURS
All you do is sell the Hawaiian Tropic Break 2005 Travel
Program Represent an American Express “Student Travel"

Company Guaranteed Highest Commission, Free Trips & Great for

www.Spring BreakTravel.com
1-800-678-6386

Resume Your pay equals your efforts AMERICAN STUDENT
Vacations 1-800-336-2260 www.grnericanstiideminfg

 

4

 

A MoNDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004

5

"

SiifAi“E!iiPED1ToRrAL

Administration must crack down

on sexual assault

As Dean Watkins said in W&L’s
press release, a sexual assault is a viola-
tion of human rights. Arecent meeting of
officials (including the Dean of Students,
the University President, IFC and Panhel
reps, and several Greek presidents) sought
solutions to what has obviously become a
signiﬁcant issue on the W&L campus.

In the press release, Panhellenic Presi=
dent Mary Jacob Rankin acknowledged
sexual assault as a “very real and important
situation that the W&L campus cannot and

‘ will not tolerate.” Although suggestions
have been made to correct the problem
by learning from programs established at
other schools and supporting other initia-
tives like One in Four and education pro-
grams, we believe that decisive and imme-
diate action would not be out of place.

The simple fact is that when something
as serious and as widespread as sexual as-
sault becomes a problem, speciﬁc measures
must.be taken. No one should question,
given the frequency of allegations that
we’ve seen thus far, that sexual assault has
become a serious problem on the W&L
campus.

Thus, we would like to see some mean-
ingful action taken immediately on this mat-
ter. .While education, Day of Dialogue, and
so forth have their place, they neither im-
mediately prevent nor deter sexual assault
and rape on our campus, though they may

- lessen its frequency gradually over time.

Severe punishments need to be handed
down to individuals who initiate sexual as-
sault. Not only that, we need to create an
environment where victims feel free to re-
port such crimes, and that means taking
equally harsh measures against individuals
who intimidate and harass victims who come
forward.

We urge the adrr1inistration,as well as
the vafious Greek orgatiizations, to take
quick action on this matter to resolve this
urgent campus issue.

 

“One secti tells students the equivalent of
how many cheeseburgers they ‘drank”’

~Unive1sity ofTexas onlinestudentdrinldng
survey, from an article dealing with the
dreadedfreshman 15

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderman

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Copy Editors Dane Boston

' Shane Wilson

David Seifert
Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Director
Distribution Dir.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be emailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi I _
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450‘

Telephone: (540) 458-406‘ /
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

 / /'

ll

 RlNG—TU%;\='l

 

CAtEYANoursoN
OPINIONS EDIIOR

FivrAn;ANDEitsoAo@wtnE)tr

 

INI

 

PAGE *3

Live a life above and beyond fraternity parties

I’m not so dense, as a student at this school, to suggest to the
student body that fraternity parties aren’t exciting and a fundamental

part of one’s college-
experience. I get the
lure, honestly:
drinks, dancing, and
members of the oppo-
site sex. But I do
think that people
should realize, espe-
cially the ones I al-
ways hear talking
about how “there is
nothing to do here
besides go to frat
parties” that there
are indeed other
things to do on a Fri-
day night, or even a
Wednesday for that
matter. There actu-
ally may be life be-
yond fraternity par-
ties, for those who
are willing to look.
Don’t get angry.
I’m not saying that
people should stop

bid, a little culture?

You may be wondering where this is coming from,
what spurred me to question a cherished W&L “tra-
dition” of trying to maintain a perpetual state of drunkenness.

Case in point: we had an international film festival come to our
school a few weeks ago and only a handful of students attended. I
always thought college students loved movies! Besides the defense
that it just wasn’t advertised enough and people didn’t know it was

There has been an interesting phenom-
enon lately — this whole time, really — that is
starting to get to me.

I’ll be out or I’ll be in the Co—op, or some-
where, and this boy that I swear I’ve never
seen in my life, comes up to me and is like
“Hey Mary Childs! How are you?” You’ve got
both of my names. I got nothing.

Or it’s that girl that you see everywhere
and God knows you’ve met her about six
times, and for the life of you all you can recall
is that supercute pair of shoes she wore a
week ago. “Hey, Mary!” “Hey, SuperCute
Shoes!” That doesn’t re— ..
ally work.

I’m starting to be em-
barrassed by this. The
other day in Psych class,
which is a class of 30 or so, the professor
gave a stack of papers to my friend and me
and told us to pass them out.

Boy, was that an awful experience.

We sat there and we were like, “Do you
know a Jonathan? Caitlin? Is there a Caitlin?
Meredith? No? Anyone? LOOK, I know her! !”
And we’d hand out about every 14th paper. It
was terrible.

My Psych class is FULL of people I know.
Or rather, I know their faces very well, and I
know that they are in my psych class.

I know I should know them. I mean, it just
feels kind of stalkerish to go buy a yearbook,
but that may be the next step.

The all—time—best I—Don’t—Know-You mo-
ment for me was a few weekends ago when I
was at some house, having a lovely time as
always. Some guy I would have bet money
that I’d never met before joins a conversa-
tion, laughs at something I did, and says:
“Oh, Crazy Mary."

As if that was my name. Crazy Mary. Like
I had introduced myself to him as that.

I think I stared at him for a while, just

 

 

A ou, 
MARY CHILDS ‘08

THE BIG PICTURE
_ ANNE FINLEL‘QL

completely confused. Who are you? How do
you know my name? And most of all, how did
I get that prefix?

Possibly worse than the Dear-God—I—
Know—I—Know-You is the HEY!—Oh—you-
don’t-remember-me? It’s happened to all of
us. You see that girl that you totally bonded
with last weekend 5- it’s possible you’re go-
ing on a road trip together soon - or that re-
ally nice guy you talked to for like an hour on
Monday, and you jaunt up all cocky-like, and
you’re like oh my god, hey. How have you
been. And you re—embark upon that oh-so-
special conversation that you
wrote in your journal about.
And there’s that blank stare.
The blink. The look to the
friends - do you know this girl?
Oh God. Now you’re the Stalker Freshman.
Don’t admit to owning the yearbook...

Is there any graceful way out of that situ-
ation? All I know to do is the desperate
scramble for words, a quick scan to see if
you’re among anyone remotely known to you
that will remember, and the Turn-and-Sprint.
That last one is my favorite. Then they re-
member you.

But how can one tell the difference be-
tween the ones that remember your last name,
high school, mother’s maiden name and
sister’s favorite ice cream, and the ones that
blocked out, or blacked out, the entire spec-
tacular conversation where you were totally
on your game and proved the epitome of witty
and wonderful company?

There’s no way to tell. There’s no one to
help you. It’s a Russian roulette, and the odds
are worse.

I propose that upperclassmen wear signs.
There would be the “Excellent Memory,"
“Slight Stalker Tendencies,” “We-Went to
School Together, Idiot,” “You Had Dinner
With Me,” versus the “Sometimes I Don’t

going on, which I buy to some extent, there is no excuse in my mind
for such a pitiful turnout.

We are lucky
enough to have a
rich alum bring an in-
credible opportunity
to our rural campus
of 1600 students (se-
riously— like Cannes
Lex-Vegas style) and
I find it extremely dif-
ficult to talk more
than a couple of my
friends into skipping
one night of parties
to come. To me,
something is wrong
with this picture. At
any other school, the
A theater would have
‘ _ been packed. Is the
typical Washington
and Lee student’s
idea of culture con-
fined to watching
- drunken students on
photo 50147169’ of armada '

GOT CULTURE? See the Shenandoah Shakespeare Company act in the only replica of the Blackfriars Theater
going entirely, or even stop going every week. But every once in a
~ while, when there isn’t anything too terribly exciting to attend, would
it kill you to give up one night of hard partying in
favor of a relaxing evening with friends or, God for-

a frat basement stage? By all means, continue going out four times
a week if that’s your scene. Only you won’t know what you could
possibly be missing out on unless you give something
completely different a try. You could go to Staunton’s
Blackfriars Playhouse, the only recreation of
Shakespeare’s original indoor theater.

Or maybe a concert is more your style, or a camping
trip or scenic hike? Hell. You could just drive around for hours and
get lost. At least it would make for meaningful conversation that
you would actually remember the next morning. Resist being sucked
into the whirlwind that can be the W&L party scene. Or at least do
yourself a favor and come up for air once in a while.

A freshman by any other name would still be forgetful

Remember MY Name,” “You Are Not Impor-
tant To Me Today,” and “Were You the One
Hitting On My Boyfriend?”

What scares me about this problem is
not the hatred from the upperclassmen who
can totally tell that I’ve forgotten their
names, but the fact that I think it’s spread-
ing. This amnesia has now moved to other
parts of my brain. _ ’

For example, a few friends from UVA
came to visit a while ago. Upon seeing them,
I looked at one and stood there for a few
seconds and had NO IDEA what his name
was.

I’ve gone to school with him for thir-
teen years, and after a month I’ve lost any
knowledge of ever having been friends with
him. It was more of an “Oh, Don’t I Know
That Kid?” and a quick memory scan of the
past week to see if I had a name to match
the face. I

Thirteen years, erased in one month.
Amazing.

But thankfully, there are always the Safe ‘

People. These are the ones that for what-
ever reason, you always know their name,
and they usually get yours right too. I have
only a couple of these. I cherish them.

Safe People, you know who you are -
when I see you, I probably point and say
your name very, very loudly, as if to show
out that Yes, It is possible for me to retain
so’meone’s appellation. Thank you.

Sometimes I get a little overzealous with
the name thing, and I might kind of scare
you — “Hey, LILLY!”

Whoa, there, tiger. You got it.

If you’re a Safe Person, though, don’t
be scared by my excitement over your name,
and the fact that I probably don’t leave you
alone. You may think I’m stalking you. Please
take comfort in the fact that it’s not you,
it’s your name.

 

Boston Sports - «-9

for disaster, anyone?

answers?

GoogIe- T

Pats going for the  time winning streak
record, and it might finally be the year for the BoSox. Only problem-
a Yankees team with a knack for pulling off weird, ﬂuke plays. Recipe

Debate Pictures- h Have we really gotten to the point, as a nation,
where we LOOK for our President to have a wire on him to get fed

V-Ball- T Chrstine Gladyz is a setting MACHINE.

CDC- 1, Their JOB, aside from killing Ebola breakouts, is. to not rim
out of ﬂu vaccine. And they ran out of ﬂu vaccine.

. Apparently now it’s being used by detectives assigned
‘ to cold cases to solve crimes. What CAN ’T it do?

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Congress- L Now, I know politicians can’t escape from money and its
inﬂuence, but isn’t demanding a set amount of money to propose a cer-
tain piece of legislation a bit over the top?

Firing your longtime manager and mentor, then getting married- l
Didn’t work for Tiger Woods, not going to work for Britney Spears.

Indy IM Football ‘f First place this year. Oh yeah, you heard me.
Cafe 77- .1. Only retail items after 9? Iwant my Colonnade Club!
Lex Chinese Food- «-9 Eat at Crystal’s. Trust me on this one.

Staunton- T For shopping-hungry W&L students, it’s the new Roanoke.

Hardee’s- .1. Used to be unique southern fast food, now it’s just a clone
of what we in the west call “Carl’s Jr.” And whose great idea was it to call
a piece of food a “thickburger”?

A c " PlayingAce-Seven off—suit in Texas Hold ‘Em- 1 You’ll get a ﬂop of Ace,
Queen, Seven, and I guarantee you someone has Ace-Queen.

 

 

PAGE 4

Exam Stress
Staggers Sophomore

  

photo touﬁegr afp/Jotograp/.301/ei't. mm
ALLTHE LEAVESARE BROWN. And exam time is gray for many Generals.

Fall Break is coming just in time. After arriving at school
refreshed from summer vacation, I had no problems getting
right back into the swing of things. I was a little stressed, but
was able to stay on top of all my work and still have time to
spare. I was really on top of things and had the grades to
show it.

This was before, like many other students, I caught one

. of the bugs that have been going around. I spent 3 whole

days in bed just trying to recover enough to get to class. I
only missed one day of school, but I realized that the amount
of work I typically get done on the weekend really carries me
through the rest of the week. It has now been two weeks
since I got sick and I am still trying to catch up from only
three days off.

As the term progresses, there seems to be more work to
do. I’m not sure if professors are actually assigning more
work, if the material is just more complex and so it requires
more study time, or if the work load is the same, but I’mjust
meeting it with less enthusiasm.

No matter which is true, I’ve noticed that students have
begun missing more class, doing less studying, and have
become more tired in general. This is why I feel that it is
important for reading

IN THE IRONS days to really become
, more of a fall break. I
CARISSA SHIPLEY  would rather get mid-

terms over with during
the beginning of that week and be able to really relax over
break than have to feel my nagging conscious tell me that I
need to study for tests all while trying to catch up on sleep
and relax in general. Even having only one or two tests be-
fore break would‘ help relieve stress and allow me to try to
make the most of the time off. ~

I realize that not everyone may agree with me and a lot of
students need and want those days to really study. This is
where the uniqueness of Washington and Lee comes in. Be-
cause of our wonderful honor system, most professors seem
to feel comfortable allowing students to schedule their own
exams. It also seems that professors here have a genuine
interest in the well—being of their students and are very will-
ing to help their students learn and do well in any way pos-
sible.

Thus, I feel that professors should allow students to take
their midterms whenever they want. Any time after that last
class before break on Tuesday or Wednesday, professors
should make the exam available. It could be dueby the end of
the class period when the professor normally would have it
scheduled.

This way, students could decide when they want to study,
how they want their break to be structured, and the order in
which they want to take their mid-terms. This would allow
students ‘to be on top of their work and refreshed and ready
for the second part of term.

If, like me, you are feeling a little stressed right now, here
are some tips for reducing stress. Everyone online seems to
have a tip, but these seem like the best to me.

1) Get enough sleep, rest, and relaxation time
2) Eat a well balanced diet, including breakfast
3) Drink a lot of water, and not a lot of alcohol
4) Don’t smoke

5) Exercise 30 minutes, 3 to 4 times per week

»6) Plan out how much time you will spend on each activity or

assignment

7) Make a schedule for the day

8) Talk with a friend or write in a journal

9) Take deep breaths and stretch throughout the day
10) Avoid getting too hungry, angry, alone, or tired

Letter to the Editor

  Ot3ﬁiiit)Ns

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11,2004

Amerians shouldn’t fret overlbal imge

  

photo mtmtegr of /r/mo4p.org

ALLONS ENFANTS DE IA PATRIE. A joint Franco-American protest over American foreign policy, in Paris.

Many young minds today, concerned with
America’s global image, are fixated on what seems to
be an overwhelming amount of anti—American senti-
ment overseas. It seems that every day on the news
(even if you do watch Fox), there is mention of an
attack made on Americans and their allies, and the
general consensus is that it will not end any time soon.
Liberals blame Bush’s foreign policy and the War in
Iraq.’ Conservatives counter that this is untrue and
that Gore wouldn’t have done any better (and neither
would Kerry if he gets the chance). So what can we
really attribute this blame to? Some say that the coun-
tries opposing us, especially those in the Middle East,
are so backwards in their religion, society, and politi-
cal beliefs that they will always be against democracy
and thus hate Americans. If you ac-

US aid to their own countries very much, giving rise
to a widespread suspicion that much of it ends up in
private bank accounts rather than in the hands of
those who need it. As a result of this, and much
unquestioned anti—American propaganda, democracy
has long been stigmatized as a product of the West.
Combine these with leaders willing to blame the US
for crises of their own making, and you get this
hatred for Americans that we see in the Middle East.

And then there is France. Boy, do we,love those
freedom fries. The near sophistication bf the anti-
Americanism we find there does little to make it more
bearable. How ironic, for no other country benefited
more from American security in the twentieth cen-
tury. What do we do in retaliation for such under-
handed snobbery? Why grant them

cept this as true, you are exactly the  a permanent, veto—wielding seat on
ignorant American that the French ‘ the UN Security Council, of course.
laugh at while sipping their café au WHHNEYDUFFEY  While we may have different values

lait. This is not to say that we

shouldn’t in many ways resent anti-Americanism, but
we must realize that this is an issue that is bigger than
a culture clash. It is not based on who we are so much
as what we are perceived to do in the global commu-
nity.
The Middle East has always been a hot spot for
the United States, but what has particularly aggra-
vated such anti—American feelings is our support of
Israel. For the past fiftyyears, the United States has
stood behind Israel in every conﬂict against Palestin-
ians and Arabs. After all, Israel is our only reliable
strategic partner in the Middle East. However, this has
resulted in an erroneous perception of unity in US
and Israeli policy which often creates issues. Another
aggravation is that Israel has been receiving US tax
money since 1949 and is currently the largest recipi-
ent of US foreign aid, -receiving about one-fifth of our

‘ total allocations. This causes a considerable amounts

of resentment. However, it is worth being mentioned
that America is financially and militarily committed to
the security and existence of many Arab countries.
Interestingly, Arab regimes and media do not discuss

when it comes to security and mili-
tary issues, French resentment comes more from a
suspicion of America’s power and perhaps a sense
of vulnerability in a major nation to American he-
gemony. So, while it may be an outspoken, irritat-
ing annoyance, it is merely that-an annoyance.
Maybe in some way, their resentment comes from
some knowledge of this fact.

The United States has been down this road be-
fore, battling with a tarnished image and fighting
off both old allies and new enemies. Bush has be-
come a lightning rod for these anti—American senti-
ments, but the issue goes farther than him. No mat-
ter who is President, there is little doubt that the US
will strongly support Israel, will wage war against
terrorists, and continue to pursue its own interests.
So, we must not hope for an end to all anti—Ameri-
can feelings; the only way that couldever happen
would be if there were no America. 9

Instead, we, as the world’s most powerful na-
tion, must learn to cope with both the inconve-
niences and the great tragedies that result from this
status.

YES
77%

Phi Quick Poll

“Does the White‘ Book, as it exists today,, need substantive changes?”

 

57 students polled, 30 male, 27 female. Poll has 95% confidence in +/-5% margin of error.

No
23%

phi@wlu.edu with your correction.

Errata t

- In last week’s Phi, Caley Anderson mistakenly quoted “sound and fury, signifying nothing” to F. Scott Fitzgerald.
William Faulker was the author who, in fact, referenced this quote, originally from Shakespeare’s MacBeth.

— It was reported last week that the Honor System at the University of _Virginia is older than that of Washington & Lee.
In fact, the exact relative order of each university’s creation of an Honor System is unknown as of yet, and so, we cannot
be sure when, or even if, President Lee established the single sanction.

- While errors are inevitable, it is the policy of the Ring-tum Phi to attempt to avoid them, and to correct and acknowledge
any mistakes of fact as quickly as possible. If we have made a mistake that you feel needs correcting, please e—mail

GSA President criticizes Phi for assertions of political partisanship

Dear Editor, realm of political partisan-

dents, administrators, and

As per the staff editorial

in the Monday, 0ctober49' is-

sue of the Ring—Tum Phi, I
personally would like to com-
ment on the accusations of
the Phi’s editorial staff. The
editorial was titled “EC-
funded student organizations
must remain non—partisan,”
and with this statement, I
whole—heartedly agree.
However, the Phi insinu-
ates through lies and half-
truths that the W&L Gay-
Straight Alliance has devi-
ated from its goals and has
crossed the line into the

,Alliance has “the echoes of

ship. Nothing could be more faculty committed to in-
.wrong._, W 1 77 W N creasing tolerance and ac-

The editorial coiitinﬁiéé” Eejiiahbiéiof the gay, lesbian
by stating the Gay-Straight and bisexual members ofthe
W&L community.”

Where is this political
echo? As far as I am con-
cerned, tolerance and accep-
tance are neither Republican
nor Democratic ideals. Both
Democrats and Republicans
find community in the GSA,
and if you were to ask any
one of them, I seriously
doubt any would suggest
that they feel politically
threatened.

partisanship” in its mission.
Since I highly doubt anyone
at the Phi has ever actually
read the GSA’s mission state-
ment, here it is:

“Each member of the
W&L community benefits
from any and all measures to
increase tolerance and ac-,
ceptance of the differences
within it. GSA will serve as
an organization for stu-

The authors of the edi-
torial offer some “evidence”
to prove their point. They
state that “the GSA, for ex-
ample, had Kerry-Edwards
signs at the Student Activi-
ties Fair.” This is simply in-
correct. The GSA shared a
table with the Young Demo-
crats, who were in posses-
sion of the signs.

The GSA, however, was
sitting behind a rainbow ﬂag.
Where are the staff editori-
als condemning whichever
club happened to be sitting
next to the College Republi-
cans?

This is sloppyjournalism
at best, politically motivated
hate-mongering at the worst.
The EC budget hearing for
the GSAtjust’ so happens to
be the day after the Phi was
released, so now ‘the GSA
will have to defend its good
name in front of the EC with-
out any time for a rebuttal to
appear in the Phi. How con-
venient for the staff of the
Phi. Could it be that the Phi
is trying to slander other EC-
funded student clubs in a bid
to get more money left over
for themselves? See, I can
make unsubstantiated claims,

too. It’s easy!

This mix-up could have
been easily avoided. All the
staff had to do was contact
me oreany of the other offic-
ers in the GSA, and this situ-
ation would have taken care
of itself. Instead, the Phi de-
cided to take a page out of
the Dan Rather book on jour-
nalistic integrity and make
accusations first and check
the facts second. Shame on
you Ring—Tum Phi.

Sincerely,
Allen Barry
President, W&L GSA

 

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004 
 /
o I \

 

Walker Williams / The Ring-Tum Phi

Dodds on a roll  

Freshman came from out of
nowhere to dominate team .

BY JOHN BovAY
STAFF WRITER

Freshman soccer
phenom Josh Dodds jour-
neyed almost 1000 miles from
Cedar Rapids, Iowa with no
guarantee of playing college
soccer.

Now, he leads the W&L
team in goals and averages
about 60 minutes of playing
time per game. The athlete of
the week after his three goals
in two games against
Hampden—Sydney and Emory
& Henry, Dodds has defi-
nitely proved that he’s earned
his place on the team.

Dodds discovered W&L
through US News rankings
and decided during his col-
lege search that he would
only look at schools where he
could potentially play soccer.
Although he was -not—~re-~
cruited to play soccer here, a
former assistant coach
watched him play part of a
game during a tournament
during his junior year of high

school. He had to try out for
the team once he arrived at
school in August, and found
that the competition for a spot
on the roster was more difﬁ-
cult than'he’d expected.
Dodds described the ma-
jor differences between play-
ing club soccer in high school
and college soccer is the
strength and quickness of col-
lege players. Dodds enjoys all
his teammates, and describes
them as “a strong team” that’s
had “some unlucky breaks”
so far this year. He says the
men’s team has the potential
to “get on a roll and surprise
some people and go pretty far’ ’
in ODAC and NCAA play
later this fall. He calls senior
captain Peter Miller “intense”.
Dodds plans to major in
business, and he has a
younger brother who also

plays soccer, in addition to a - -' -‘

sister who plays volleyball.

The Generals return to
action Tuesday at Eastern
Mennonite, and play their next
home game Saturday against
Catholic.

IKDFKFS

 

SINCE

Wednesday

° M Soccer
at Emory arid Henry--4
' W Soccer vs. Ho1lins——4:30

1897 

  
  

THE RETURN OF

titan:

  

(540; 464-2253

COSTUME PARTY Oct. 31
2-6 p.m., ages 2-12, Toy Museum; 540-458-3772

<5?-FEATURll&G%s»
our ammo uousrzn

t.............

' OCT. 21-23 and OCT. 28-31
at   ‘..(NEw) psycﬂo Room

-, g 91.00 are
: Anmssiou
I

for GACH member of your
group with this coupon I
.I

www.naturaIbridgeva.com

NEW THIS YEAR....Tl-IE LIVING TORSOI

(It's Really Alive)

$05511” 7-10 pm —

Q00 (SCAR! ER)
FREAKOUT FOREST

I iol(NEW)
: I SPECIAL EFFECTS

I 1.0 (NEW?
RETME. 3001'?!

Sponsored by:
w“*mART ...-.  

 -— .._ %

  

 
 

PAGE 5

Women victorious at tennis tournament
Hagerman leads the victory at ITA Southeast Region Championship

BY SARAH BLooM
STAFF WRITER

On Monday afternoon,
Washington and Lee participated
in the ITA Southeast Region
Championship hosted by Mary
Washington. Senior Lindsay
Hagerman, leading the Generals,
stormed the competition, winning
the singles championship for the
second year in a row.

Hagerman’s win earned her
a trip to Florida Gulf Coast Uni-
versity in Fort Meyers, Florida
from October 14-17 for the ITA
Small College National Charnpi-
onship. ‘

“This is a great opportunity
for her to see where she is with
all other top players in east re-

gion. We all wish her the best of
luck and can’t wait to see how
she does,” said sophomore
Ginny Wortham of her
teamn;iate’s accomplishment.

In order to earn this mini va-
cation to Florida, Hagerman had
to defeat teammate, sophomore
Kristen McClung, in order to ad-
vance to the championship
match. McClung also advanced
to the finals after defeating the
second seeded player.

Over the weekend, the Gen-
erals took a turn as the home court
team, hosting the W&L Fall Fes-
tival.

On Saturday, Hagerman
again maneuvered her way into
the championship round by de-
feating her opponents from

\

Emory and Carnegie Mellon early
on. Hagerman later teamed up
with senior Lora Farris in doubles
against Mary Washington and
Carnegie Melon to secure a spot
in the championships doubles
round. . .

In number four singles,
freshmen Catherine Rentschler
and Kelly Will each advanced to
Sunday’s rounds.

On Sunday, Hagerman and
Farris won in the doubles cham-
pionship round in an exciting tie-
breaker over Emory’s number one
team. Hagerman also went on to
win her singles competition.

Unfortunately, top eight
player, sophomore Kristen
McClung was unable to recover
from a sprained ankle on Satur-

. day during 21 doubles match and

was unable to play.

Highlights for the Generals
included Rentschler’s win in the
fourth ﬂight. Also, teammates
Kristen Crawford and freshman
Ali Chasey’s claimed absolute
victory this weekend. Crawford
and Chasey went undefeated
through the entire tournament.

“I think the tournament was I

a really good experience because
the top teams were there, Emory

was there. It was a good chance -
to see the other teams before the I '

spring season and how we might
match up. Overall, it was a really
good weekend, we fought hard
and learned what we needed to
do to get ready for spring,” said
Wortham of the competition.

Boston’s not out of the

game

yet

Don’t give up on the team quite so soon, it’s not too late for success

BY RYAN GRITTER
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

As I read the story I couldn’t
really believe it myself, the Curse
of the Barnbino. . .could be over.
In case you haven’t heard the
story, I’ll give you a quick recap.

About a month ago, after the
Red Sox’s "dismal series against
the Yanks but before the good
one (already makes you stroke
the beard, doesn’t it?), Manny
Ramirez was at the plate. Quick
side note, I love Manny’s hair and
the way he has to squish the hel-
met on top of it.

Anyways, he fouled the ball
off down the third base line and
it hit a little boy in the mouth. So
far so good. . .l<nocked a few teeth

out, blood, all that good stuff. But ~

this was no ordinary boy, oh no!
This boy lives in the same house
that Babe Ruth used to’ live in
when he was with the Red
Sox. . ...creepy isn’t it?

From this we can conclude
that this little boy is in fact the
physical manifestation of the
curse. So for all you skeptics out

 

   

. mﬂs
 of Historic Lexington, Vﬂ
1,, Thursday, October 28“'
 through

        
    

7:00pm Tours Also
: on Friday 29”‘

.‘_ and on Saturday 30'”
;**a*******
" RESERVATIONS REQUIRED

540.464.2250

 
       
   

there right now thinking that this
is just a coincidence, here’s some
reasons to believe.

First off, I point to the previ-
ously mentioned Yankees series.
They have a really horrible se-
ries against their nemesis then
this event takes place and they
follow it up closely with a great
series against the Yanks. Already
the signs are pointing in the right
direction. . ‘

On top of this, everything
just seems set up so perfectly for
them now. Think about it, last
year they lost a heartbreaking
ALCS to the Yankees in which
Pedro gets hit and the manager
fired. Then a great arms race in
the off-season separates the two
teams as clearly the favorites
going into the year.

Pedro Martinez, the long-
time ace, has a horrible finish to
hisseason that brings to ques-
tion his effectiveness. Where can
he prove himself? Where can he
find vindication for his loss in last
years playoffs? Nowhere better
but in a series with the
Yankees. . ...and he looked good
against the Angels. If one were-

Fnday

° Volleyball at

Emory Invitat;ional——4:30
' Field Hockey at
Eastern Mennonit --5230

Happy 18th Birthday. Lauren
October 14th

 

Love, Mom. Dad & Adam

writing a script for this they’d
have a good start right there. Now
get a game 7 series win in the last
at bat after a great outing by
Pedro, and we’re in business.
And the proposed opponent?
The Cardinals. . .one of the origi-
nal teams in baseball and the
team with the second most World
Series titles to the Yankees.

So beyond all this tonifool-
ery (sorry, once I thought of that
word I decided that it had to be
in my article somehow), is there
any ACTUAL reason to believe
that this year could be any dif-
ferent for the Bosox? Definitely.

As I previously stated, they
have great pitching, and a com-
parable lineup to the Yankees, but
beyond that reason is an even
greater one.

For those of us who don’t
believe in curses, I myself am a
member of this group, it seems
that the only reason a curse can
exist is because a team or city be-
lieves and makes it happen. It’s a
se1f—fulﬁlling prophecy; I’ve seen
it plenty of times with the D01-
phins. Start the year 3-1 or 4-0

 

and suck late, particularly against
the Jets. So if nothing else, per-
haps this little tale can get Bos-
ton fans and players to believe
themselves, and finally lay this
stupid curse to rest so we can all
focus on laughing at Cubs fans.
On a completely unrelated
note that I just found kinda
funny, my friend Andrew Rob-
erts was discussing my line from
an earlier article when I said,
“George Steinbrenner really is
Satan’s baseball obsessed
nephew,” and we began to come
up with other parallels. So here’s
what we came up with if the

Yankees = The Evil Empire
George Steinbrenner — The Em-
peror

Joe Torre —- Darth Vader
Yankees — Stonn Troopers
Manny —— Luke

Ortiz — Chewy

Pedro - Han Solo

Schilling — Princess Leia

We decided that Pedro and
Schilling had to be Han Solo and
the Princess since they both
bickeralot.

Sunday

° W Soccer at Chowari——l

    

PAGE 60

 ’
Team still riding high

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004

Riding team confident that the best is yet to come-

BY R0313 SOUKUP
STAFF WRITER

Several weeks ago the W&L
riding team began their 2004-2005

' season with a third place fmish

at the Radford Invitational.
While there are several
styles of riding, the W&L team

. competes in equitation. This
' style combines Fences, which

includes jumps, and Flats, which
have no jumps. While the ﬂats

_ usually involve instructions from
~ the judge and armouncer, Fences

require that riders memorize the
course before they start.

Style and looking sharp is
important for any rider, as equi-
tation is scored on the way the
rider handles him or herself. In-
deed, riding is a rare co-ed sport,
and men and women compete

against each other at the highest
levels.

Shows are divided into dif-
ferent divisions and each rider is
placed into a division depending
on their experience and skill level
to ensure that the shows stay fair
and no one is overmatched.
There is one judge at every show
and the way equitation is scored
guarantees objectivity. The rid-
ers at each show use the host
school’s horses, the thought be-
ing that working with a horse
they have never ridden before
will demonstrate how good each
rider really is. 9

The team starts riding as
soon as school starts in the fall,
and takes a break for the remain-
der of fall semester in rnid-No-
vember. But as soon as second
semester starts they are back at

it again. They will ride during win-
ter semester until March.

The team competes in the
second region of the Intercolle-
giate Horse Show Association
(the sport’s governing body),
which includes eight other
schools like UVA, Bridgewater,
and James Madison. Each
school in the region is present at
every show. -

Last year W&L ﬁnished with
their highest ranking ever in re-
gions at third, and very close to
the top two teams. The team has
three more shows this fall, and
junior captain Sarah Murray said
the team expects success again
this year. “We’re getting better
and better every year,” she said,
“We’ve got a great group of
freshman and we think we’re re-
ally going to do well this year.”

Football shuts out Catholic

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

The Washington and Lee foot-
ball team recorded its second straight
shutout with a 22-0 win over Catholic
University on Satmday afternoon in
Washington, D.C.Itwastheﬁrsttirne
since 1982 that the Generals have
posted back—to-back shutouts. That
season, they shutout Catholic 41-0 fol-
lowedbya60blankingofGeorgetown

”lheAGenera1s(3-2,2—0)tooka3»
0 lead on a 42-yard ﬁeld goal by
sophomore placekicker Ben Long
(Frankford, W.Va/Hargrave Military)
with8:44remainingintheﬁrstquar—
ter. Long then connected from 26
yards out with 12:14 left in the sec-
ond quarter to give W&L a 6-0 lead
which it would take into halftime.

After halftime, the Generals
broke the game open by scoring 16
pointsinthethirdquarter. Sophomore
widereceiverColtonWard(ChariotIe,
N.C/Charlotte Country Day) started

’ thescoring spreeona19-yardtou'ch—

downn1nwith8:43leftinthequarter.
Ward wouldﬁnish the game with four
carries for 35 yards and atouchdown.
He also caught a career—high 11
passes for 84 yards.

W&L extended its advantage
to 16-0with4:35remaininginthequar—
ter on a 24-yard ﬁeld goal by Long.
Catholic fumbledtheensuingkickoff
and the Generals recovered the ball
ontheCardinals’ 29yandline.Onthe
very next play, W&L junior nmning
back Michael Lackett (Allenwood,
NJ /Wall) hit senior wide receiver
John Bamwell (Charlestown, S.C/
Porter-Gaud) on a 29-yard strike to
givetheGeneralsa22-0leadThe
two-point conversion failed produc-
ing the ﬁnal score.

The W&L defense recorded
ﬁve sacks and held the Cardinals to
just 116 yards of total oﬂense. The
Generals now have 30 sacks on‘the
season and arejust ﬁve shy ofthe
school record of 35 sacks.

Olfensively, W&L was led by

junior quarterback Greg Tweardy
(Bethel Park, Pa/Bethel Park), who
completed 27—of-42 passes for 246
yardslackettrushed l7timesfor51
yards and senior wide receiver Taylor
Callaham(Atlanta, Ga/McDonough)
caughteightballsfor 115 yards.
Freshman defensive back
Kyle Luby (Dallas, Texas/High-
land Park) notched a team-high
11 tackles and junior defensive
end Liam Murray (Oneonta, NY]
Oneonta) had eight tackles.
Catholic (2-3, 1-1)waspacedby
nmning back Ed Smith, who rushed
for 54 yards on 15 carries. Quarter-
backAnthonyDurhamoornp1eted 15.-
of-25 passes for 84 yards and wide
receiver Frank Lynch caught six
passes for 65 yards. Anthony
DelBorrel1made 10tackles andRyan
Parrish chipped in with nine tackles.
Washington and Lee returns to ac-
tion on Saturday when it hosts
Harnpden-Sydney. The game is
slated to begin at 1:00 pm.

       

 

   
   

 

 

Wj&£l\tIen’s soccer , 

  

   

  

ball team 

3-0  over 3Queens College

 . tm¢i.I§&n<i0¥P?!:Mac9t:~9I¥»:Sén1r- 
2  day1afté.m°°ii#‘Th¢jGenéra1st16: : "
4)defeatedQt1e_én§.30~23;.'30»21, i

_ The  am:  mars

' is G, and woI_I"ien-’s- cross 5 cm2’aay,j,. 9
 wem in action on samrfctay ‘

. attire: Virginia State Divisionill-1‘ 

‘III meet§'hostedhyAEastem  ..  --

.noaiteUrtiversitjI,Th6W&Lrr1eni '

 

 

‘ j 'McCh1r_e‘(MerI§phiS; TenrrAJMem-"ii

‘ f1)efeatsAGuilford, 1-«lo (10/9% .
; Senior midﬁelder tustin Mysatr.
j(I\/Ia:xietta,GaJWoodwardAcad-i v 
1erriy)st3o£edat;.tl1e,72:22.marl:ito .

               
Ayor_‘¢jttI:xvi£aﬁonal(10f9}3 ,compeze;;atvrrgmia;’s:ase:‘t  Av mrrsnegionaitrs/4_).r. .. V 
 ' ' ‘a;ad.LeeAvo1te_y- 1 Divisi'm1I§rI£fMeet(10l9)  Washingtonaridiseeseniorléaul-,

phi»; Un}i:ersréy’scuooi)§and j1rn~ 

   

semifiaatsi ot,,;thé' at g

; ioriyavid Shay avlartiaez, Ga!
Augusta. Wop).   in the '

A A A , 'men’s,.soccerteaara1.-0 victory L.
""135 and

 ov.er0DA,C-rival Gtii¥foid‘Co11ege., 

’ doubles flights ‘at ttxe_£rrzst.sou1th_  = ' orrsaturday afternoon in  .

give the Washington andAA’Lee


.. ArAon'andLee“vtzonAren.’, _ ii  1
to ‘a 2-1:vrerory oyje:rjRoanolte

‘ ‘zoos-25 31-29. 

  

9  3°‘112j’?*’‘‘3.13?“‘3<?1§%?l*‘l‘43°ot:;.3o—’

’ ‘ sixtearrrsgf

. fi~r2ished7f1rst of. six tcatns, while‘, .. 9
' ‘ .jthe.wome’r1'_aIsoﬁrtisl3eci first of. A

 ’ 

 

Regional 'helc_i;at .Goucher tCo1~ A 4

.-b0ro,N.C. '4

. College on Saturday  '
was ﬁeld. “ 1- 

  

  
  
 

 

$68131

 

  
  

    
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
 

   

 
   

Ni) “ii .
iiiifillrg ll‘ _
_ W

   
  

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop 9
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
S40-348-52% ° 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Callforworkshopmlmslniormstlon.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunton
On [431 / I-64 at exit 205. Raphine. 4rnile.r wzrt on
Route 606. Raphine RM /Mfr/M a working
jam that offers "U~PICK" opponunitiesfor fresh
fruit when in seawn.

llres-Satl0:00-5:00,Weduntil8:00
m 

  

  

'!BHi¥§$-ﬁwlilt  i 5

   

Socials

Ga--cod’ f.-‘I§1fl"‘

 

   

rm  trmiroo time 

 

 
  
 

_- $9‘-.73 irliamro-ii: 1'tvan——rsiIe -mmaa Vista. W1 _
T WﬁﬂﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁWﬁvﬁﬁuﬁ5"55=%"k3s§t'h§$:‘§:$t'k5r$55"E'$%’Ir§'%'ﬁ'§&Wt5§5'§'%¥5t$‘h$ﬁ&ﬁ$5c‘lrt"ﬁ ..

mire marge lurto center   .
fi~‘2ﬁ‘t’-93’n

;‘$v“‘$¥“‘?%&§%““f“““t‘%‘$“““‘§“‘%‘%‘&““““‘%“%“ ’

Blue Hill 
Auto enter  

is now a   
mueﬁmnammemmaténsmmllumamenmhattatalnunttotmmtxtm

  -Elamiahm at  Steel Elthaltst -A   

aﬁmltm nmmtnellaeenrent 

“loam”  more S-m'rsrnrssmesrsnn  

 

O  Oﬂlﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁ at iﬁfﬂiﬂi SEER is SE11” 0  Piliﬁﬁﬁllwl O
OEIJHIIKIIJH WEB!’ 6 Q5131. EM’ 4! r-ﬂfﬂ  it

man (toning

3 " ”' ":;i3”s'2r:a‘u”ét% ‘ ‘   ‘ trim   was
« awmnuroesmununrar :1 nsﬂlamumﬁ P s
5 ‘fathom care .2; S.tal'I§-ﬁﬁ at  i "

 

Like to write sports? Contact
rulep@wIu.edu

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus
4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundmising solutions EQUALS
$1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Coll TODAY for a $450 bonus when you
schedule your non-sales fundraiser with '
CampusFundr'aiser'.
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser'.com

Contact Campus

 

     
is Calling.

 

   .

The ad-Vﬁtf'l!LIfB of a litaiine starts _
with yttstt‘ anplissrtiovi. Milli? mine by ' 
Get. a tor an m-campus irrtervlew "
 you  be-overseas by next

summer:

A1huraday,. October 27

  
   
 

seaoacorpsimszvutusarwat.

Asap-ht otttine at
_pear:acorr:ts.,gov are
announce 3 Campus 1
intarwiew sttrnugtt f
Career Services by ’
ﬂetotrer 

  
 

,~uu¢vnm:mnnaueu:~nuuuavaunanr~arv:-emnwma-ill »-

 

     

 
 
 
 

  

us

X4060

 

  

   

it
BY KATHERINE KRALL
STAFF WRITER
4 There is justno possible way to sugarcoat it: grits

   

are disgusting.

Thiswasoneofthemanydiscoverieslmadeabout
this strange and wonderful land called The South. Upon
making my decision to attend Washington and Lee, I was

" excited to move south. There were many beneﬁts: more
sun, less snow, the farnedhospitality. Ihad no ideathatl
would actually be entering an entirely new culture, com-
plete with it own customs and language. I would argue

4 that northemers should be allowed to fulﬁll their lan-
guage requirement by learning to converse in southern
English. The idea of a triple contraction is the most com-
plex. Ihadheardtheterm“y’a1l”beforearrivinghere, but

. . . _ combinationslike“y’all’re”and“y’all’ve”areratherdifﬁ-
4 ' cult to master.

Southern attire was a bit of a shocker. Ifound myself
having to avert my eyes eachtimelpassed amale wear-
ing what I thought were just his boxers. I later learned

, theywereinfactMadrasshorts.WhereIlive,pearlsare
reserved for two age groups: those over ﬁfty and those
underten whoareplayingdressupandtryingtolooklike
they are over ﬁfty. Hair ribbons are very cute, but when
guys as well as girls have hair long enough to wear them,

‘ I question the ability of southern barbers. Music is differ-
ent down here. Really different. I just don’t even know
what to say about it.

Ihatetobreakittoyou,butIthinkyourl1istory

K books mightbefaulty. 'Ihe1eisnosuchthingas“the
War of Northern Aggression.” When I ﬁrst saw the
Confederate ﬂag being ﬂown, Ijust assumed it was a
harmless old relic of the Civil War. After seeing about
twenty-seven more, it slowly began to dawn on me: to

I southemers, this thing isn’t over! Although this may be
difﬁcult to believe, northemers go for days, even weeks,
at a time without once thinking about the Civil War. In
fact, I forgot about it for theentire month once! I have
found that southemers still consider succession a viable
solution to differences of opinion between the two re-
gions, andthatmosts1i1lhar’oorp1ansinthebackoftheir
mind for some sort of retaliation againstthe North. Above
the Mason-Dixon Line, battle cries of “Remember

1, Appomattox” would be met by blank stares and quick

references to history textbooks.
BeforeanivingintheSouth,Ilumpedallsouthemers

into one big category, but after living here for a while, I

noticed distinguishing characteristics.
YoucantellWestV1rginiansbytheratherlongpause

  
  
    
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  

  
 

mp RlNG~’l‘Uh:l PHI

RTS

aftertheyareaskedwhere theylive. Thisisnotbecause
theyaredumb;ontheconuary,theyarequitesrnart,they
justneedtimetodecidewhichstatetosay. Atthevery
besttheywillclaimdualresidencyinastateinwhichthey
ownasurnmerhomeoronethattheirmothervisitedwhile
pregnant Oreven one that they just know the name of.

North Carolinians will inform you at spontaneous
and random intervals that they are the true Carolina, and
that they actually don’t believe that South Carolina ex-
ists. Alabamans get a big, ridiculous grin on their face
whenever a band begins their favorite, “Sweet Home
Alabama” 6 - .

Using rather odd logic, an inordinately proud Geor-
gianattemptedtoasserthisstate’s superioritybypno-
nouncing tlmt it was founded as a prison colony.

‘ I am not actually sure if there is anyone from Louisi-
anaatW&L,btrtIhavemetseveralpeopleﬁon1I_oosiarrria

I have seen some students fromTermessee. 'Iheir
mouths moved, but only unintelligible sounds came out.
Sometimes I could swear they were trying to talkto me.

Forget thoughts of secession, Texas has been inde-
pendent since 1836. I was planning to visit a friend in
Texas, but I don’t have a passport and my shots aren’t up
todate. EveryTexanhasanirmatecharacteristicthat
whenever a noun is spoken, a certain phrase is triggered
Try it; say barbeque, and they will say, “Texas has the
best barbeque.” It works with everything, from Mexican
food to football, and from presidents to Stetsons. I have
even heard it claimed that Texas has the best Dr. Pep-
per.

Maryland is not located in the South. Neither is
Florida. And in a rare show of brilliancy, I once heard
a Virginian claim that certain parts of the state were in
fact positioned in the North.

Despite many confusing idiosyncrasies, I have
to admit that there is a certain charm about the South.
When a man opens the door for me when I am still six
hundred yards away, even if he yells at me to run, my
heart melts. I have gotten so used to cars stopping
and allowing pedestrians to cross the street that I am
certain I will be killed when I retum home.

Yankees deﬁnitely lack the courtesy and charm
that southemers possess in abundance, and the
southern hospitality certainly lives up to its reputa-
tion. There is a deﬁnite appeal to wearing delicate
sundresses while cheering for a brutal and ruthless
clash of football teams. And “y’all” is an incredibly
useful word. Yes, I must admit it; the South is grow-
ing on me.

But grits are stiH nasty.

  LIFE

Northern frosh Criticizes grits Southern Sophomore responds

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARrs& um-: EDITOR

My best friend lives in Albany, New York. So
for all you Northemers who will hate me at the
conclusion of my little piece of the Arts & Life
section, I do have friends who are Yankees. And
I have been topNew England, on more than one
occasion.

But for starters, Iwould like to say that “Y’all
talk funny.” I went to see Katie in August, and
the first thing her Exeter-educated friends said to
me was, “Oh my God! Please say something!”
But it sounded more like,
"Ohmygadpleasesaysomething.” It’s not that we
talk slowly. It’s that y’all talk too fast!

I’ve grown accustomed to the whole collars-
up deal on pastel-colored Lacoste polos. I under-
stand that you prep~school people have your own
way of doing things. I guess if I had to wear a
blazer and striped tie every day to class, I’d be a
little rebellious too.

Back in my summer camp days, I was good
friends with a set of twins who were from Canada,
and we were in the same cabin multiple times.
When I met their parents (who were originally from
Massachusetts), I made the egregious error of call-
ing them “ma’am” and “sir.” Oops. She didn’t
think I heard, but Meredith’s mother said under
her breath, “Does the girl think I’m old or some-
thing?” Below the Mason—Dixon line, if someone
is even ten years older than you, they are consid-
ered your elder, and “ma’am” and “sir” are merely
terms of respect.

I’m always saddened when I go to “The City”
with my parents, and they do not have sweet tea
at the obscenely—overpriced Manhattan restau-
rants. I remember one occasion during which I
ordered sweet tea, and the waitress glared at me
and smugly replied,
“Wedonothavesweetteahere.” When she left, my
dad leaned over to me and said, “We’re not in the
South anymore. They do things differently up
here.” .

Bluntly put, we’ve got y’all beat when it
comes to hospitality. My parents and I spent the
Fourth of July at a “barbeque” in New York with
some family friends. I don’t know what
“barbeque” means to y’all, but down here, it means
barbeque ribs, barbeque chicken, potato salad,

EMILYEDWARDS

L ARTS&L1FEEDl’IOR
EMAr;EDwAnosnvr@\nnr1)u

PAGE 7

baked beans, a million pitchers of lemonade and
sweet tea, and a plethora of desserts that would
make any sweet-toothed person go absolutely
insane. This “barbeque” consisted of lamb, some
sort of pork, a gourmet potato dish—thing, and
cheesecake. And, in our friends’ defense, they
honestly thought they were “puttin’ on the dog,”
as my mother says. .

But hospitality doesn’t just mean cooking
enough food for an army. It means holding open
doors, pulling out chairs for ladies, and just be-
ing polite. In Farmington, Connecticut, I had an
interesting experience with a cashier at the gro-
‘cery store. Stupid me, I just asked her how she
was doing. She cut her eyes toward me as she
scanned the milk I was buying and retorted,
“Whydoyoucare?” Manners. It’s all about man-
ners. If she had been a waitress, I don’t think I
would have tipped her very well.’

And I know this subject will hit a few nerves:

football versus lacrosse. It seems as though ev-
eryone up north plays lacrosse. And I must say,
you northemers can play lacrosse. The lacrosse
team from one of the boys’ schools in Memphis is
very good, compared to southern schools.
They’ve dominated Tennessee and regional la-
crosse for years; it’s almost not fair. But they
definitely got their comeuppance two years ago
when they went to D.C. to play Saint Alban’s (or
some boys’ school like that). MUS was utterly
humiliated by some lopsided score that’s better
reserved for Football Gameday Finals on ESPN.
But football is where it’s at. There is nothing like
packing into a stadium with 109,298 of your com-
rades and screaming at the top of your lungs. I
just don’t see that camaraderie at lax games. And
this is coming from someone who has seen a Syra-
cuse—Hopkins game.
What surprised me, though, as I spent more time
with Katie and her friends, was how much they
liked country music. Karen, a student at “Conn”
(not to be mistaken with UConn, upon fear of
death), knew more words to “Save a Horse, Ride a
Cowboy,” than I, a human country music juke-
box, did. Impressive.

But of course, I had never ever seen some-
one use The Official Preppy Handbook as a
coffee table decoration. I’m still trying to fig-
ure that one out. Maybe it’s just a Wesleyan
thing.

Cate Blanchett shines in independent film CoffeeandCigarettes

Habits. Social Props. Ice Breakers. Conversation Engagers.
Simple Celebrations. Tests of Will. Coffee and cigarettes are life
savers; they are staples of the social experience. In his film Cof-
fee and Cigarettes, writer-director Jim J armusch focuses on situ-
ations in which coffee and cigarettes play integral parts in saving
our dignity and preserving our relationships with other people.

This movie is worth watching if only for its incredible cast.
Steve Buschemi grates on your last nerve as an Elvis-obsessed
Memphis waiter (check out his theory on El_vis’
evil twin, Garon——there is some truth there, I think).
A conversation between Tom Waits and Iggy Pop
is priceless; I would have never put the two of
them together in a scene, but it works. They de-
scribe our era as the “coffee and cigarettes gen-
eration” and light up as Waits ironically declares that, “since I
quit, I can smoke one.” I

The chemistry is bizarre, but effective. I can’t explain it. Cate
Blanchett shines in the scene “Cousins”, playing two startlingly dif-
ferent women, a famous actress and her grungy cousin, brilliantly.

. “Groundhog day, Ghostbustin’ ass” Bill Murray gives a notable per-

formance as himself, disguised as a waiter, who serves GZA and RZA
of Wu Tang Clan. Murray swigs coffee generously, straight out of the
carafe, while emitting a gut-wrenching smoker’s cough. The irony of
GZA and RZA’s criticism of Murray’s smoking habit is obvious—and
hilarious.

The movie is full of subtle social commentary, but it never
takes a definitive moral stance. Its intention is to present snap-

iiii "EEiE6riBiTI’6rE°y“v?66i5'
ELYSE MOODY

shots of everyday interactions that occur in practically the same
setting all around the world, in many different economic and
social atmospheres. In fact, the majority of the scenes incorpo-
rate the same black-and-white tiled table top, ﬂoor, or, more cre-
atively, checkered coffee mugs. These elements, along with the
dirty saucers, and often-crumbling walls (with the exception of
Blanchett’s posh scene) are emphasized by the starkness of
Jarmusch’s clever use of black-and-white cinematography. The

0 ' black thickness of coffee, the residue of cigarettes,
and the measured distance between these people
stand out with surprising poignancy throughout
the film. ‘

These scenes, as well as many of the others,
express the idea that life gets in the way of the
relationships that ought to matter most to us. Coffee breaks are
the most fashionable way to catch up, to schedule in time to talk
to your family or best friend. If the situation gets awkward, you
have the ritual of coffee drinking or smoking a cigarette to dis-
tract you and to help you communicate with each other. In one
scene, a character repeatedly demands to know what is wrong
with his best friend, whom he hasn’t seen in years before this
lunch. Nothing is wrong; why does something have to be
wrong—have to be said, have to be answered—for us to take
the time to talk things over with someone who is close to us?
This is a question that the movie brings up repeatedly, leaving
you to answer it for yourself.

Not all of the snapshots are as effective as the ones I men-

tioned earlier; some simply are not evocative. The opening scene
with Roberto Begnini, a brilliant actor (Life is Beautiful) is inter-
esting because of its randomness, but, at the same time, it does
not really work within the context of the movie to introduce its
main themes of the awkwardness of social meetings and interac-
tions.

Also, some of the other scenes, especially one starring The
White Stripes, are too focused and simply too bizarre to ﬁt in with
the rest of the scenes (although, visually, it is a stunning scene.
Watch it and ﬁnd out why). The final vignette attempts to tie the
earlier scenes together by borrowing pieces of their dialogue, but it
is not really successful in doing this. It doesn’t matter. The words,
“call me when the break is over” embody the spirit of the movie in
such a way that makes the resolution of all of the individual plot
lines unnecessary.

The important thing is that you finish the movie with a sense

of the isolation that people allow themselves live with on a day-to-
day basis. By highlighting the realistic awkwardness that fre-
quently takes place between the closest of friends and relatives,
Coffee and Cigarettes reminds its audience to take the time to
foster close relationships with loved one——without being senti-
mental. To listen to what people are saying when you ask them
questions. To smile at a stranger and find out how his week is
going. To call a friend, just to catch up.

Coffee and Cigarettes is available at the Lexington Block-
buster (next to Wal—Mart) or on Amazon.com. Email me at
moodyb@wlu.edu with questions or suggestions.

Bruenidge

Pmrsrc.-t. rs.  gear?

   

-Emir.-' 'w‘i't.i'»r _t—Ir.’Z.It-’¢ fr! mﬁﬁﬂ’
tint"-SZ‘ia~5’E8El.

'  Nrarllr Lﬂﬁ H‘N’:s'
aextngim, ‘is-’.A
|~‘..:ult.:_§r.' 5s.§5.su.?! tﬁtngap-{nr,r. r=='-“e==‘i-
.J:'?.f;!t?t. 3:)‘ t’.-

igwcializing in:

tfrrrl~inp.r:di.c:
Sp-ens 1vI:raiIris.'~*'Ir°II;‘3
I Sr.'s_mal:“h-rI*I‘31..ri='- ..   
Pass»-CIT’ ’]j‘§:I"|fl«I.lIIItEm;.ClI1

  

   

,9;-We mi; .-;.1r g..n;;y;.t as gr: speak with new rralrwr stem’
i,._,,,;.°,;.,,g-.§,3 Wm, M,-,,‘ ,jrg;gg~5*rf;:pp5 3:41;; .r;rrr._g.r larxm r:orn:enrrrrg_ie:-ntr
znggmreng or _*p.r,’.v.:w £t‘l:'iilri"r:l'.'>2-£3113’.

2° V“-i7Ui>

inspirational....”

fi1'ﬂ"""t"“

FRIENDS OF PRESTON LIBRARY

CORDIALLY INVITES THE PUBLIC TO ITS FALL 2004 MEETING & LECTURE

DOLLY HARDEE TURMAN MEETING ‘ROOM

THE VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE

 MﬂﬂR
WILL DISCUSS HOPE, INSPIRATION, AND LIFE FROM THE WRITER’S PRESPECTIVE.

Her eloquent reflections on the challenges of writing, and of life, have made her a much sought-after
speaker, and her poignant first novel was published recently to national critical acclaim.

Ms Ba|dacci’s work has been favorably compared to that or her best-selling brother, David. A Sunday
Moment has been rightly described as “[a] stunning debut novel, “ and as “[e]ngaging original, and

BOOKSIGNING AND SALE FOLLOWING PROGRAM

REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED
DON’T MISS THIS CHARMING AND INSPIRATIONAL PRESENTATION!
FOR INFORMATION, CONTACT PRESTON LIBRARY (540) 464-7228

 

PRESTON LIBRARY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SHARQILBALDACCI

AMPLE FREE PARKING

 

 

THE

13163 8

  

rn.n RI}.\i{}~’lii5i\fi PHI

AST ORD

FMILYFDWARIIS

ARlS&I_lFEEDl'IOR
Em m
MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2004

Diversity at W&L: There is more than you might think

It has been said that our school lacks diversity. The ad-
ministration has put countless man-hours into recruiting mi-
nority students especially those from foreign countries. I ap-
plaud these efforts to make our school less of a rich southern
school for elitists.

However, Washington and Lee is not quite as homog-

Hi Marshall,

How are you doing? We are all fine here. Not doing

much. ‘
One of Grandpa’s cousins and his wife from Fresno

was here forfive days. The came on the 13 of Oct. The

men went chucker hunting three days. They got eleven

enous as most of us may think. Yes, most of the ».m”_,_w__--_m_ birds. Women just goofed off mostly.
student body hails from Texas’ or somewhere in POTATOMAN We all went to Unity Lake fishing one
the south, and yes, most of us are white middle MARSHAKL RULE day. It rained all the time we was there
to upper class. But true diversity comes not in so the gals sat in the pickup. Didn’t
where we come from or what color our skin is """‘“*““‘““**——‘*“’ stay there very long. The caught five
but is instead determined by who we are inside and what trout. One day we went to Baker to the interpretive

experiences we have been through. .

My grandparents recently sent me a letter. They come
from a small farming community in eastern Oregon and have
never lived- anywhere else. The barely graduated high
school, and my grandfather actually dropped out a few times
before the football coach talked him into coming back. They
had a successful plumbing business but focused on farm-
ing. _

This letter was typed on a typewriter. Ijoke you not. It is
framed in my room and hanging out my wall. I did not change
a single thing on this letter, including spelling, lack of pro-
nouns and especially content. I have underlined a few lines to
pay special attention to.

center.
esting.

Grandpa and I have been fishing several times this
fall. Have done pretty good. Grandpa wants to go to
Hells Canyon and do some steelhead fishing when they
start running.

Went and watched Jordan play soccer yesterday. They
were in the playoffs. Her team took forth place. They
didn’t do very good, to excited I think.

Didn’t get to only one of Griffins football games this
year. Seem’s like something was always ’s going on around
here. Will try to do better next year.

Shellv said they killed a five foot rattle snake in the

First time he had been there. It was very inter-

parking lot where she works last Wed. She said they have
even had a couple of them inside the building. Come in on
loads ofstufffrom the vard. No place for me.

Grandpa is onlyfarming one field next year. Got the rest
rented out. Going to put it into alfalfa hay and sell it stand-
ing in the field. He is planning on doing a lot of camping and
fishing next summer. We have tickets to the Calgary Stam-
pede for next July. AuntArlene and her man (friend are going
also. Taking our campers and doing some fishing along the
way.

We still haven ’t sold Granpa Jenson’s house. Guess we
will come down on the price. I think maybe it’s to small for
most people. _

We had ourfirst hardfrost yesterday morning. Got down
to 22. That should stop things (weeds) from growing.

Sending you a little money to play with. Enjoy it.

Love
Grandpa and Grandma.

I love my grandparents. They are the most honest and true
people I have ever met. I am not sharing this letter with you
so that I can make fun of them. I am sharing it only to prove
that every one of us come from a place that is quite different
from W&L. The student body may mostly be white, upper-
class southerners, but we all are diverse in our own way.

Mr. Potato Man, no longer will you
“rule” the back page. I’m one sentence
into my article and I’ve already managed
to fit in a double entendre.

Your days are numbered, Idaho boy.
I’m from Wisconsin, which is a far supe-
rior place. We have corn fields, cows,
and Milwaukce’s Best....which come to
think of it, isn’t something I should lay
claim to.

But anyway, Mr. Potato Man, you
better watch out. I have
been recruited to the Phi bal-
ance out your testosterone
pumped prose, and I’ll even
use girly alliteration if it is
called for. Next week everyone is going
to read MY article first.

Everyone, if I haven’t met you, let
me make a formal introduction. I am the
girl that ate fifty—one goldfish at Tropi-
cal. Before you ask: I) Yes, it’s true. 2) I
didn’t chew. 3) No, I didn’t get a stom-
achache. Good. That’s covered now.
Please don’t ever mention it again.

Now let us progress to the more vi-
tal getting—to—know-you information. If
you haven’t bothered to
read the byline, take a sec-
ond to do so now. If you al-
ready did so, pat yourself
on the back. Good work. I’m
proud of you. No, I’m not
being sarcastic. I really am
proud! You deserve a
cookie. ~

So now that you know
my name, let me share all that other in-
formation you are simply dying to know.
I am a sophomore here at W and L. You
don’t know me? Wait! Don’t pull out the
face book just yet! You won’t find my
mug shot. I am actually a first year stu-
dent here at W & L, a transfer from

_ Dickinson College located in the lovely

city of Carlisle, PA (which is, by the way,
conveniently located near Three Mile Is-
land).

So, because l’ve had this conversa-

KRISTINE EARLY

I have always known that I
would love it here at W and
L. I made the wrong choice
not to follow my heart.
THE MILKAND CHEEJE GIRL

Never invite your Iil’ sis to the frat house

tion at least four-hundred times in the past
month, let me instruct you that now is the
proper moment to insert “So why did you
decide to transfer?” The first time some-
one asked me this question I replied with
a five minute answer, boring the poor per-
son to death I’m sure. But thank your
lucky stars, because I have got my answer
down pact by now: “I have always known
that I would love it here at W_ and L. I made
the wrong choice not to follow my heart.”

Let me
elaborate: I was six-
teen the first time I
stepped on campus.
It was Parent’s
Weekend in 2001, and I was visiting my
older brother for the weekend. My brother,
in an attempt to introduce me to college
life invited me to spendthe night at his
frat house. That night I fell in love.

My brother dragged me from fraternity
to fraternity, and at one point I stood,
completely sober (I was later to be cor-
rupted in a return visit to Lambda Chi), in
a basement flanked on all sides by sweaty,
gyrating fifty year olds. I was amused,
amazed, and to be honest,
downright disturbed, but
at that moment I realized
that there is no place on
earth quite like Washing-
ton and Lee.

It took me ,a little
extra time to get here, but
don’t worry, this year I’ll
be around to laugh at your
mom when she tries to grind with your
boyfriend.

So I’ll finish my very first article in
the Ring Tum Phi with a word of advice

for all you guys out there: Never ever in-
'vite your little sister to visit your frat

house.

In fact, to be on the safe side, don’t
even let her know that you joined one.
Leaking such knowledge can be detrimen-
tal to your sanity...oh, yeah, and to those

poor goldfish...

Get Crunk on Friday mornings

BY BLAIR CRUNK
STAFF WRITER

It is 7:25 AM on a Friday morning...you
are probably still sleeping. And I am at
work...volunteer work at that. I’m a W&L
student just like you are...and no, I don’t
have an 8:00 class. So here I sit in the
overheated WLUR studio, groggy—eyed
and exhausted, blaring music to keep my-
self awake, to keep my show alive, and I
am loving it. Every single minute. All of a
sudden, the request line starts flaring up
like a tiki torch, and so I excitedly an-
swer the phone. After all, some
hardcore student has somehow mus-
tered up‘ the strength and energy in a
hung—over state not only to turn on the
radio, but also pick up the phone and
dial the WLUR request line...at 7:25 in
the morning. This was definitely a
cause for celebration.

“Get Crunk Radio how can I help you?”
Upon not hearing an immediate response, I
repeat’ the greeting, this time a bit more impa-
tiently.

“Yes....hi...is this that there radio sta-
tion?” Great, I think to myself...l hope for
a college kid and get an old man probably
sixty years removed from his college days.

I Trying hard to keep from laughing, I re-

spond, “Well, yes sir, this is Get Crunk Ra-
dio can I play something for you?” An-
other pause. Come on, get to your point
big man. I mean, I’m all for broadcasting to
every sort of audience, but this is a college
radio station.

“Would you play me a song, son?” I
couldn’t hold it anymore and I hope he was not
offended,butIbeganto chuckle softly only
because I hope I am this witty (and half
as gutsy to call into a college radio sta-
tion) when I am his age. “Of course I
will, sir, that’s what I said. What would
you like to hear?!” He responded
quickly this time, “I want to hear some
old country!” I was amused and told
him I would do my best to fulfill his re-
quest. The oldest country I had ever
played on my show previous to this

point was probably music from the late-
nineties. But my conscious wouldn’t
let me disregard his request. On the
air, I dedicated an old Garth Brooks
tune from 1989 (the oldest track I could
find) to the local man here in Lex-Ve-
gas who so generously tuned into my
show. Sure it was fine and I didn’t
mind...but come on, this is college
radio...not Oldies 97.3. I even referred to
him on the air as “sir.”

What was I thinking? I guess Ijust
felt obliged to show the man the same
respect he showed me in listening to my
show. While the song played, I con-
templated how comical I could have
made that situation. He calls in and
asks for old country. Maybe I should
have given the same dedication to that
man but instead played a song such as
Jay—Z’s “99 Problems.” I wonder to my-
self, would he have called back and
complained? Maybe I will try that if it
happens again. A little irreverent?
Maybe. A little disrespectful? Defi-
nitely. But you can’t beat the sponta-
neity of college radio.

And there are also those calls that
I receive from friends who say “Hey
Chump, this is so—and—so from Phi Delt
and you are playing TERRIBLE music,
get some other DJ on the radio, this is
the worst music I have ever heard!”
...pause...in my mind I am thinking what
in the world is this guy talking about!?
I have never even stepped foot in the
Phi Delt house. This is the first clue
that the call is a hoax. Knowing that
its one of my friends trying to catch me
off guard, I oftentimes thank them sar-
castically for calling and hang up the
phone quite violently. And then I will
jokingly dedicate a song such as Ryan
Adams’ “Too Drunk to Dream” to the
guy from Phi Delt who called me drunk-
enly and needs more sleep. The song
will always fit the mood of the.request—
ee. It’s all in good fun, but I would ap-

preciate more...many more...legit call-
ers.

 

(I) It seems today that all you see is violence in
movies and sex on TV.

(I) You. I saw you on the Cadavers bridge. You
know who you are.

(I) What is it with freshman girls always talking 0
their cell phones in the Fitness Center? -

(I) Subaru Mike is the Man!!!! He should shoot
Subaru commercials! '

(1) Please call if you are interested in waxing Tciny’s
back: (304) 650 6904 ,

(I) Thirteen years ago Mariah Carey topped the
charts. What a difference a decade makes

<1) Fendi, Pucci, and Marc Jacobs are all owned by
Louis Vuitton. Does that strike anyone else as odd?

(I) FOX is obviously the only biased news network...
EVER... NBC, CBS, and ABC are especially not bi-
ased

(I) Props to LSU- Way to pull it out in the end. In
“The Swamp,” no less.

(I) I love this paper! I would marry the editor if I
could!

(1) Martha Stewart and West Virginia: two contra-
dicting terms. I’m sure she misses her gardening.

(I) There were scary masked, costumed people run-
ning around campus at 2am. They were loud. This
needs to stop. '

(I) Repent, for the Kingdom of God is at hand!

(I) I do not heart sketchy, smelly guys in togas. I
do, however, heart gorgeous, non-sketchy guys in
to gas.

(I) I’m a little itchy from rolling around in all the hay
Saturday night.
(I) My life is an endless innuendo.

(I) W&L Football just may be coming back. Their
second shutout in a row! Way to go, Generals!

(I) SJC? C Money, how bout dem apples?

(1) Where was the Foam at SAE? I came for the
foam and left disheartened.

(1) Why won’t Comedy Central tape more epi-
sodes of Trigger Happy TV? It’s a million times
better than Chappelle any day of the week and
Saturdays too.

(1) Happy Anniversary to the Clintons. If Bill and
Hillary can make it 29 years, it kind of gives you
hope for the future of marriage.

(I) When is Bill and Monica’s Anniversary?

(I) The Bannaconda was spotted prowling the
campus homecoming weekend. It has been fero-
ciously feeding before its hibernation.

(I) Bring on Reading Days.

(I) Srat house dessert-tasting makes me happy.
And full.

(I) To the freshman guy from Cleveland that I met
at the car bash Friday night: You were amazing in
bed, really amazing. Please call.

(I) The hottestgsenior girls live at Lodell and
Graceland

(1) Chinese fortune cookie insert of the day: “You
are almost there.”

<1) I heart google

(I) My legs are not made of tape. That is all.

(I) Check it out, check it out, check it out, check it
out!!!!!!!!

(I) The coop better start carrying salted Route 11
potato chips again or there will be a student revolt.

(I) Congratulations to Antonio Fernandez of Madrid
for winning the world Monopoly championships last
Saturday. His prize was 15,140 dollars, which is equal
to the amount of play money in the Monopoly board
game. I

(I) Congratulations to Tiger Woods on marrying a
Swedish model.

(I) Is Mount Saint Helens ever going to blow?

(I) Staying over? Don’t forget to pack your tooth-
brush.

(I) I want a cookie.
(I) I wonder if Brett Kirwarr can fill out his uniform.

(I) I wish the dining hall grilled paninis at dinner time
too.

(I) My dorm counselor is the best dorm counselor
ever! Jeb! Brooks is awesome! I

(1) Email your anonymous Quick Hits and crazy, wild
Fall Break/Reading days experiences to
phi @wlu.edu

 

