;’.-2
‘P.’

:

A

i

 THE

i

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

T/re riirdeni min of Wnriringion and Lie Urrioerrny time 7897
Buffalo Creek lives on this spring

,Fire grabs attention of communi

,.a

CORBIN BLACKFORD / T/7e Ring-tum P/21'

AFFERMATH. (Above) Trucks were in place this past week to help clear the debris
from the blaze that took student residence located above Il Palazzo restaurant
at 20 North Main Street. (Left) The ﬁre spared little, and according to T/ye Newt-
Gagette, total personal belongings lost amounted to around $10,000.

BY ERIN ]ULUs
MANAGING EDITOR

Washington and Lee juniors Michelle Chastain and
Caroline Francht were left homeless when their North
Main Street apartment went up in ﬂames in the early
morning of April 14. Soon, an outpouring of love and
support came from the Washington and Lee community.

Security ofﬁcer Thomas “Baner” Bane asked Presi-
dent Burish if he could begin a collection for the girls.

Bane visited each of the fraternities last Thurs-
day asking for donations of whatever the brothers
could spare. Pam Burish made the rounds of the so-
rorities asking for donations. M

“I tried to tell them that these are people who sit
across from them in class. . .we’re family at Washington
and Lee and these girls are part of the family,” said Bane.

_ A complete tally is not yet available because some
individuals still plan to donate, said Bane. “To date,
we have $1,173 and some change,” said Burish, “I
thought it was wonderful, the outpour of support.”

0 The Business Office will take the final donation

and divide it equally between the girls.

Bane started this fund-raising to, “showh_oyv much

lovewe have for those g_irl_s,’_’ said Bane.

Accordingiitoillhe News-Giazette, the source of
the fire was accidental and probably was caused by a
faulty set of decorative electric lights. Neither of the
tennants were in the apartment when the malfunction
occured, although they suffered from smoke inhala-
tion. Over 49 firefighters from Lexington, Buena Vista,
and Kerrs Creek doused the ﬂames in about four
hours. No adjacent buildings were damaged, and Il

Palazzo is open for business.

I
THESE HANDS WERE MADE FOR CLIMBING

l F—mail news briefs to ‘
‘ wl edu

l
l
1

STEPHEN MARINOS / The Ring-tum P/yi
CONRAD ANKER. Contact brought the famed American rock-
climber and writer, who has scaled everything from Everest to
peaks in the Antarctic, to the Commons Theater last Thursday.

Commons, ofﬁcials said.

renovations in the past 35 years.

daughter, who died in 1964.

STEVE LAMB
STAFF WRITER

This past week Washington and
Lee students- signed up to participate in
GAP, the Generals’ Awareness Program,
which includes a month—long schedule
of events to promote tolerance.

The program is the result of col-
laboration among individual students
as well as organizations such as Hillel,
Pride, GSA, and the Office of Multi—cul-
tural Affairs.

The stated goal of the program is
to not only recognize diversity on cam-
pus, but also to celebrate the eclectic mix
of cultures here at Washington and Lee.

Included in the list of events are
salsa lessons, a Japanese Tea Ceremony,
and an Origami Peace Crane-Making les-

son. GAP will also sponsor a lecture by next year.

GAP untolls its campa1'g12
Tolerance program aims to broaden student horizons

law student Ahmed Younis on hate,

V violence, and ignorance, as well as a
vigil on May 8 in honor of victims of
hate around the world.

The various events will be spaced
out across the next month to provide
students with the best possible chance
of ﬁtting GAP into their schedules.

Program organizer Marcas Banks
said, “I think it is a great way to help en-
courage the diversity of thought by ex-
posing the student body to other cultures.”

The activities will be competing
with the usual Spring Tenn distractions,
where many students have their after-
noons booked. However, organizers re-
main hopeful that the variety of events
and timeslots will work in their favor.

Yet only time will tell if student
interest will keep the program going for

University Center reverts to its
former name to avoid confusion

The University Center at Washington and
Lee University, located at the corner of Washing-
ton and Lee streets, is reverting to its original
name of Early-Fielding Memorial Building to avoid
confusion with the new John W. Elrod University.

At the outset of Spring Tenn, W&L’s Busi-
ness Office moved from Washington Hall to join
the ofﬁces of the University Registrar, Institu-
tional Research, student Executive Committee and
W&L Counseling in Early-Fielding .

The building, constructed at a cost of
$750,000, was named after the two women in rec-
ognition of their involvement in W&L life. Dedi-
cated in 1969, the structure has seen numerous

The change also is expected to renew inter-
est in the generosity of Annie Fielding Early, of
Roanoke, and her daughter, Annie Early Fairfax,
of Roanoke and Washington, D.C. Mrs. Early left
her estate to Washington and Lee University in
the late 1920s, subject to a life income for her

BY‘ KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

A Washington and Lee tradition that
many students remember fondly has sur-
vived another year.

The Buffalo Creek Music Festival
may be able to continue this year after all,
even though in Febru-
ary the festival did not
appear to have any f11—
ture. Fundraising has
continued since March
to save Buffalo Creek,
after the Intrafraternity
Counsel announced that fratemities could
no longer be responsible for the gathering
because of liability reasons.

Caroline Parker, Inge Hill, and Wright
Sigmund created Buffalo Creek Productions
to raise money from the student population.

The festival is set for May 21 and May
22, the last weekend of school this semes-
ter. Supporters want the festival to con-
tinue in the same fashion as it has in the
past. Buffalo Creek Music Festival will again
be held at Zollman’s Pavilion, and will in-
clude many of the same things from past
years of Buffalo Creek.

Inge Hill remains hopeful about the
ability of Buffalo Creek Productions to raise
the required money. “We feel optimistic

Buffalo Creek is the most

fun party I’ve been to.
MARKALLEN

C I/37'

MONDAY,APRIL 26,2004 ’ ‘

about the festival but still need the contin-

ued help of the students to make this hap-

pen,” Hill states, and also says for the stu-
dent body to “look for fundraising events
in the upcoming wee 

The main source of the money that
has already been raised is the Save Buffalo
Creek website. Here, students can donate
money online quickly and
easily, and money is guar-
anteed to be refunded if
the festival cannot go on
as planned. Though their
goal for the fundraiser is
$15,000 only $2,000 has
been collected.

“Buffalo Creek is the most fun party
I’ve been to,” said Mark Allen, ’O5, “it’s
how 1 picture W&L.”

Anyone who has enjoyed the festi-
val during their years at W&L can con-
sider donating money. Every amount helps,
and donations can be made in the form of
cash, check, or credit card. For more infor-
mation, contact Inge Hill hillm@wlu.edu,
Caroline Parker parkerc @wlu.edu, Wright
Sigmund sigmundd@wlu.edu, or Tim
Litzenburg litzenburgt@ wlu.edu.

Also, visit http://www.geocities.com/
buffalocreekmusicfestival/buffalocreek for
information about the festival and dona-
tions.

Alumni weekend packed
with events, parties, speakers

FILE PHOTO

ONCE A GENERAL, ALWAYS A GENERAL. Be it a
fifty-year reunion or ﬁve, alums old and
young will gather this week for festivities.

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On April 29 through May 2, W&L
alumni will return to their alma mater for
Reunion Weekend 2004. This year’s Re-
union Weekend honors the undergradu-
ate and law classes of ’54, ’59, ’64, ’69,
’74, ’79, ’84, ’89, ’94, and ’99.

Over 1600 participants are expected
to be on campus for Reunion Weekend
activities, including alumni, guests, fac-
ulty, students, and staff.

The weekend features events for
alumni of all ages and interests. Thurs-
day night’s opening assembly features
keynote speaker Paul M. Maslansky.
Maslansky, a 1954 W&L graduate, is
best known for his accomplishments as
a ﬁlm producer.

He has produced numerous ﬁlms
during his lifetime, but achieved his great-
est success with his film franchise Police

FROM PRESS REPORTS

Senior Neth Walker has been awarded a Fulbright scholar-
ship to study at the University of Iceland for a year. The Geology
major will take classes and study the impact of climate change
with Iceland's National Energy Authority.

Walker hopes to investigate the links between scientiﬁc re-
search and its application to industry and policy. He plans to
focus on current environmental issues in hopes of solving natural
resource problems.

He will join a research team in Iceland this summer, where he
will use ice core drilling to construct past climate variations, atmo-
spheric conditions and volcanic activity. Findings from this project
will be used to create an objective basis for decisions on climate
change and energy issues in the Nordic region.

Walker has participated in two geology programs in Ice-
land, and spent part of last summer doing ﬁeld research in Spain
with assistant Geology Professor Chris Connors.

Aterriﬁc track record at W&L contributed to Walker’s strong
candidacy for the Fulbright. »

He is in charge of the Peer Tutoring Program, is assistant
head dorm counselor, a University Scholar and a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa and Order of Omega.

Academy. Maslansky’s speech is entitled
“Thank You Dean 

On Friday, various academic depart-
ments will be holding Open Houses, and
there will also be several Reunion Semi-
nars during the day. “There is a social
side to reunion, but we’ve tried to build
on the academic and non-social things,”

I said Tom Lovell, Associate Director of

Alumni Programs

Friday night there will be a Barbeque
Bash at Zollman’s Pavillion, with enter-
tainment by Heinsohn & Day and Liquid
Pleasure. Various recreation activities are
available toalumni throughout the week-
end. A hike up House Mountain, a Road
and River Relay, wildﬂower hike, and a
rock climbing wall are just some of the
recreational options available.

The ofﬁcial dedication of the ﬁtness
center will take place Saturday morning,
and the Washbum Tennis Courts will be
dedicated Saturday afternoon.

President Burish will address
alumni Saturday morning during the Gen-
erals Assembly. Saturday afternoon fea-
tures a musical program for children by
Roger Day ’85.

The last event of the weekend is
Saturday night’s Alumni Celebration on
the front lawn. Alumni talent, including
Wﬂl Thomas ’92 and the folk—rock band,
Trip, will provide entertainment for the
evening as Reunion Weekend participants
party the night away. ‘

Seniors and third year law students
are invited to participate in Saturday
night’s celebration. “We’d like to get the
W&L students participating as much as
we can,” said Lovell.

Participants can track the full sched-
ule of events at http://alumni.wlu.edu.

Fulbrightawarded to senior eologymajor

SCHOIAR. Walker (‘04) will be studying in Iceland.

     
 

wASWW$mNéG. EEVBUFIN us!-‘ram
I 3“ _T9§lﬁ8: gs UNIVERSITY

‘ ‘\4.Arn

APR 2 7 2004

PAGE 2

Siiiiiiihoironlt

So that we can learn about
where we are, ask our alumni '

Talking with the alums isn’t some-
thing that we all do best here in our hectic
Spring Term. It seems that short of being
cornered at a cocktail party, the average
undergrad politely ignores the white-and-
blue-tagged men and women who will
descend on campus this weekend.

In doing so, we’re passing up a
once- a-year opportunity to get first-hand
accounts of the ascent or decline, de-
pending on how you see it, of student life.
For those of us who are here every day,
these changes are all too often imper-
ceptible. Yet to someone who hasn’t set
foot on the Colonnade in over 20 years,

. any slight deviation from the past can be
jarring. And chances are, those people
will want to talk about it.

As witnesses to the unveiling of
the Commons this year, we’re loathe to
deem it anything short of the most con-
sequential building project the school has
undertaken in decades. Or did other

Till}; REN G-uni PHI

CAIEYANDPIISON

OHNIoNsEorioR
andersonc@wluedu

PINIONS  .

Student honor system backlash gctspersonal

As nearly all non-cave dwell-
ing W&L students are aware, ques-
tions and debates over the school’s
Honor System have intensiﬁed greatly
in recent weeks. A controversial dis-
missal has prompted many to ques-
tion the applicability of the System,
as well as what, in fact, we consider
to be dishonorable at the University
in this day and age.

This is such a hot issue these
days that just before Spring Break, the
Ring-tum Phi and the Trident published
a joint edition (which, for the record, I
had no hand in creating) that was
heavily critical of the Honor System’s
current application, as well as the ac-
tions of our Executive Committee.

This is all well and good. Debate
over our Honor System and our elected
officials keeps this school healthy, and
certainly talking about our Honor Sys-
tem can only make it better. That said,
the goal of this article is to look at the
various accusations and critiques of-
fered, and determine their worth.
CHARGE: “The Honor System pun-
ishes good—natured students of high
character who make small mistakes or
tell little white lies.”

Close, but no cigar. The ques-
tion at stake here is whether or not
simply telling a lie, regardless of scale
or intent, constitutes an Honor Viola-
tion. I don’t think the simple telling of
a falsehood gets you -booted out of
the school, nor do I think that the Ex-
ecutive Committee believes that.

The key issue here is intent. If
someone invites me to something I re-

ally don’t want to go to, and I beg off,

because of a “prior engagement” that
may or may not exist, my intent is to
spare their feelings.
This is not dishon-
orable, in fact, this
is simple etiquette.
Let’s say, on the
other hand, that I, in a ﬁt of laziness, fail
to put together the Opinions pages for
the Phi, and then tell my editor in chief
that a computer glitch ate it all. My in-
tent there is sirnply to cover my mis-
deeds, and that, in fact, is dishonorable.
This is the criterial would use in report-
ing an Honor Violation, and I certainly
think it’s the criteria that the EC uses.
Intent is the crux.

CHARGE: “Elections happen too
quickly and give no time for debate,

MoDERArE’s MUSINGS
CAIEY ANDERSON ‘06

which unfairly affects some candi-
dates. The elections turn out to be
popularity contests.”

This is true. Candidates get just
one week in which to collect 50 signa-
tures, and only after that can they put up
signs. No public evaluation of the candi-
dates ever takes place, and voting typi-
cally goes along social organization

lines. Freshmen, in a state of bewilder-‘

ment, choose with near randomness.
Thus, I support the creation of a
longer candidacy time, as well as orga-
nized electioneering
‘events, like debates.
That would give the
campus a better
chance at evaluating
the people they have before them. But
let’s be honest. Will this keep the elec-
tions from being popularity contests?
No. Most elections just are that way.
Debates? No one would go to them.
We should still have them, but it would
be an exercise in futility nonetheless.
CHARGE: "lheF£mernbersarehypo-
crites who like feeling good about tliem—
selves for kicking kids out of the schoo 
Blatantly false. The majority of
what I object to in this litany of criti-

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 2004

cism are the horrible things that many
people are saying about the EC mem-
bers. Elected by popularity contests
or not, they are good people who are
talented at what they do, as anyone
who works closely with them knows.

As an Honor Advocate, I can
tell you that they treat the Honor
System with deadly seriousness, and
that they take every opportunity to
reinforce the rights of the accused.
They are certainly not a Star Cham-
ber. If you disagree, look at the num-
ber of not-guilty verdicts they’ve
handed down compared to guilty
verdicts. I can guarantee you that a
lot of those not-guiltys were in cases
that more than likely had a lot of evi-
dence pointing to guilt, but where
the EC found it insufﬁcient. They are
not perfect (the late notiﬁcation of
that aborted open hearing a case in
point), but they all do their
darrinedest to make sure that student
affairs, especially the Honor System,
are run properly.

I encourage anyone with their
own opinions to write in, as always.

Such a critical issue demands student

involvement.

classes see what we take for granted,
Leybum and the non-Greek dining hall,
in the same way?

And for the cynics: Don’t forget that
this communication is a two-way street.
Ninety-nine percent of all information that
alumni receive about the school is ﬁltered
through the Alumni Ofﬁce or some other
ofﬁcial conduit. Student appeals to former
classes regarding the fate of Spring Term
are examples of the exception, not the rule.
But they also sharply demonstrated the ef-
fectiveness and usefulness of such contact.

In case you have a bone to pick with
the administration or harbor fears about losing
thetraditionsthatyou feel inakeW&Lunique,
don’t feel burdened by entertaining alumni.
Insteadlookatthisweekendasanoppoitimity
to inﬂuence directly one of the University’s
most important constituents, the donors.

Or you just might ﬁnd that the more
things'char_ige, tliernore they stay the same."
There’s only joiie‘sVure way to ﬁnd out; speak.-

   

te of the Week,

“I search on Yahoo. I’m looking for
an agent. One actor got to be governor,
so maybe a former governor could go
into acting.”

-Ex California Governor Gray Davis,
appearing on a Yahoo! commercial.

.'i<ziizc«2ii;-it its Lt; lJ~'r.'r.r.<:r.'

G-TUM PHI

Editor in Chief
Managing Editor
Production Director
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

  

THE

Andrew Latimer
Erin Julius
Chris Lauderman
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Cody Gabbard

' John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Vanessa Amess

Production Assistants
Copy Editor

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Rob Rain

Leggett Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Managers

Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir.
Distribution Dir.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week‘s edition.
The Ring-rum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

‘Do Not Call’

registry saves
consumers’ time

PHOTO COURTESY OF rnnrorrr
HANGUP. Perhaps millions will avoid her wrath in the future.

Pleasant is not exactly the word I would use to de-
scribe being awakened early one morning by the irritating
sound of the phone ringing. Thinking that it could possibly
be something important, I reluctantly got up from bed to
receive the call.

To my immense displeasure, I heard a familiar voice
asking me if I was interested in applying for a credit card.
Considering the fact that I had already declined the
telemarketer’s offer the ﬁrst time she called, I found it imper-
tinent of her to once again disrupt my schedule. Getting frus-
trated now, I repeated
that I was not interested,
hung up the phone, but
could not fall back
asleep.

It is most unfortunate that situations like this are not at
all unusual in an age where products and services are con-
stantly being shoved in front of our faces. Many of us have
experienced the vexation of dealing with persistent
telemarketers who call at inopportune times or who just will
not take no for an answer. 0

When I talked it over with some peers, I learned that they
too had been unduly pestered by the same telemarketing com-
pany who had called me. As they attempt to reassure us: “you
can always have more than one credit car ” or “we’re not sign-
ing you up for anything, we just want to send you information”
and ask us personal questions (a telemarketer once asked for my
mother’s maiden name), they refuse to hear one simple word: no!

The purpose of this article, however, is not to just com-
plain about the armoyance of receiving these calls but to in-
form its readers of certain actions they may take to limit them.
As you may know, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) oper-
ates a National Do Not Call Registry that shows promise of
reducing the number of telemarketing calls consumers receive.

Registering is free and straightforward. You can call
the toll-free number, 1-888-382-1222, or register online at
www.donotcal1.gov. Telemarketers must search the registry
for new numbers every three months, and if they disregard
the registry, they could be fined up to $11,000 for each call.

A poll conducted by Hanis Interactive in January found that
more than half of all adults say they have signed up and 92 percent
of them say they receive fewer calls, proving the measure to be
successful thus far. The registry does not, however, protect against
all solicitation calls. Exemptions include charities, religious organi-
zations, survey researchers, and calls regarding political campaigns.

Most of us would be grateful for any reduction in the
number of unwanted calls. Think about it. Do you know more
people who beneﬁt from telemarketing calls, or more who

* ﬁnd it personally invasive and irritating?

Must we be subject to calls in our own homes promot-
ing another product or service we most likely don’t want or
need? There are plenty of other advertising avenues that
companies can take to increase their proﬁts without disre-
specting the right to privacy in the home.

A FRESH PERSPECTIVE
BIBEKA SHRESTHA ‘O7

 

Presidential rivals’ websites:

showdown on

Go to www. eor ebush.com. This is
the Bush-Cheney reelection campaign’s of-
ﬁcial reelection website. The “Top Story” with
a large picture serving as the link dominates
the center-left of the page. Just to the right
of that, on the same level of the top story, is
a large link “John Kerry: The Raw Deal”
which brings you to the

 

environment

the “smokestack scrubbers.” Power compa— .

nies responded in the predicable manner:
most cost efficient. They extended the inter
val before the next overhaul as long as pos
sible through piecemeal repairs, while the
executives griped throughout the ‘80s and
‘90s that exactly what constituted “overhaul”
was poorly defined and

“Kerry Media Center” ’re- OUTIN LEFT FIELD “burdensome.” CEO’s
plete with attack adsintliree , complained that the EPA
different formats, a GABE CHAPMAN  might foist the scubbers on
“Kerrytracker” which them if they so much as

shows where Senator Kerry has been in the
past five days, and “Debunker Busters”
which evidently clear the air after John Kerry
misinforrns us.

Let me just congratulate the webmaster

‘ on‘ his alliteration, and uncanny ability to make

anything air-eminder of war. Statements that
are supposed to establish facts suddenly be-
come “debunker busters,” gigantic bombs of
truth that penetrate the thick walls of obfus-
cation and misnomer erected by John Kerry.

Now you’ll have to forgive me, but af-
ter just about four years I ﬁgured the reason
why we’d reelect someone is because what
they have done good things. In effect; I
should vote for this guy again because of
his merit, and I can judge his merit without
respect to his opponent.

It’s not hard to find people on this carn-
pus who think George Bush is a great, excel-
lent president, and his website begs the ques-
tion: why is it spending so much time talking
about John Kerry, if there are so many great
things to say about George Bush?

It would be nice as well if some of the
things about John Kerry were less mislead-
ing. For instance, the “Kerry Gas Tax Calcu-

. lator” refers to a proposal made by Senator

Kerry during George I’s presidency to ad-
dress the growing deﬁcit concerns of that
time. But my particular favorite is the
DeBunker Buster: ‘

KERRY’S CLAIM: “Instead of pro-
tecting public health, George Bush rolled
back and undermined the Clean Air Act.”

THE TRUTH: President Bush did not
roll back the Clean Air Act. President Bush
proposed reforming a burdensome, outdated
regulation called New Source Review to en-
able businesses to upgrade their facilities
with the newest, most efﬁcient pollution con-
trol technologies.

This is a bunch of nonsense. It sounds
more like a public statement made by the likes
of the Politburo than anything else. The
Clean Air Act was passed well over thirty
years ago. It was agreed that one of the prin-
ciple ways to do this would be to install pol-
lution control equipment on power plants.
Democrats recognized that forcing compa-
nies to retroﬁt power plants all at once would
be prohibitively expensive, and so they cre-
ated New Source Review.

NSR said that when the time would
come for a power plant to undergo a major
overhaul (intervals of easily more than a de-
cade), the company would have to install

changed a lightbulb. Of course, if Bush has
his way, they’ll never have to. Ever.

To somehow shore up his record on
enforcement, his website points out that
150,000 pounds of PCBs are being cleaned
up in the Hudson River. Well, I appreciate
the shout-out Bush, because I grew up on
that most beautiful of rivers in the great state
of New York.

Moreover, I know for a fact that I can
thank the Attorney General of my great state,
Eliot Spitzer, for the successful suit against

- GE which has led to that cleanup effort. Eliot

Spitzer is a Democrat. I can further add that
you had nothing to do with the successful
prosecution of that case, and nor did your
mockery of the Environmental Protection
Agency. I would then ask that you stop ly-
ing on your website for taking credit for
something you had nothing to do with.

_ The day that I happened to visit
Bush’s website was Earth Day, and the “Top
Story,” if you could discern it against the
background of Kerry attacks, was a speech
Bush was giving in Maine to announce his
victories on the environmental protection
front. His website boasts of bold new initia-
tives in environmental protection.

And so I pose a challenge to anyone
willing to take it: if you care to, present a
compelling case that George Bush has any
interest in the environment whatsoever, an
interest that is demonstrated by his efforts
over the past three years to increase, pro-
mote, or at the very least sustain some level
of environmental protection. The vast ma-
jority of information that I have read on the
matter makes it clear that Bush has done
none of these things, and that the environ-
ment is very near, or at, the bottom of his
long list of priorities.

Now go to John Kerry’s website,
www.johnke;ry.com. You will ﬁnd that the
website is overwhelmingly dominated by in-
formation about John Kerry. There are only
two references to George Bush, and you have
to scroll down to the very bottom of the
website before they’re even visible.

If you just glance at the two websites
side-by-side, the differences are striking.
Bush’s relies heavily on the graphics, sensa-
tional headlines, huge fonts, and negative
references. John Kerry’s is visually reserved,
more wordy, and almost exclusively centered
on conveying information about the candi-
date you presumably went there to learn about.
I leave it to you to decide which you prefer.

Write for the Phi Opinions section!

emzri! andersonc@wlu.edu or phi@wlu.edu

    

PAGE 3

Many of us often wonder what the purpose of life is. We ask
ourselves on a frequent basis what classes should we take or what line of
work we should do, often making decisions that will make our lives and
the lives of those we love better, usually in the form of economic well-
being. It is part of the Western culture to make our decisions based on
how it beneﬁts us. We major in an academic area hoping that
will somehow enable us to accumulate some sort of eco-

PINIONS

 A life lived in the service of others is a life Well-lived

nu; Riuc;-not Pill

CAIEYANDEISON

OPINIONS EDIIOR
andersonc@wluedu

fortunate enough to have a choice and was not required to ﬁght, but he saw
himself drawn by what Sports Illustrated termed as a higher calling: his

responsibility to humanity.
In our society it is easy to forget that life is about who you are
as a person in relation to other people. It isn’t about wealth, good
grades, or prestigious honors, though our stan-

TF 5 D I dards seem to indicate that these are the things
nomic and social success—I doubt that many of us are OF THOUGHT to which we should aspire.
enduring the rigors of W&L academia simply for the heck of TRAN KM ‘05 Wrthallthe conveniences available atthepalm

it without expecting some great personal reward in return.
But recently, a tragic inspiration reminded me that life’s
success is not determined by the size of one’s bank account or the
prestige of one’s many honors. Last Thursday, a young man by the name
of Pat Tillman was ldlled in combat in Afghanistan. Aside from the cour-
age that is possessed by every soldier in war, T1llman’s actions that led
him to enlist demonstrate his courage as a human being. He was aformer
NFL player who turned down a $3 million contract in order to serve his
country and help out his fellow men by ﬁghting in Afghanistan.
Unlike many of the soldiers who go to Afghanistan, Tillman was

Letters to the Editor

of our hands, it would be reasonably easy for a hu-

man being to live his entire adult life without ever
forming any relationship with anyone because if he or she is economically
successful, he can care for himself. The conveniences and amenities of
American society quicldymakeus forgeteach otherbecause itis soeasyto
get caught up in ourselves and in our lives.

Pat Tillman had a successful life with a great career and nice
bank account, and he could have easily enjoyed his life without
ever concerning himself about the troubles of the world, but he did
not. And we also must not forget each other in the midst of remem-

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 2004

bering ourselves. It is good to strive forsuccess, but economic
success without humanitarian success is not success.

If you die at the age of 95 with three PhD’s, a nice Jaguar,
and a 5-bedroom house in the suburb along with a beach house in
Malibu but you have not touched the life of at least one human
being on this earth, you will be a failure. If you screw up and get a
bad grade or lose a job, as much as it frustrates you and as bad as
you may feel, other people will not remember you by it. But if you
screw up and offend someone deeply, though you may never feel
bad, other people will remember you by it.

There’s an age-old philosophy that encourages people to
do one good deed a day. Not all of us can go to war and lay down
our lives for our fellow men and women, but all of us can make a
difference to someone, whether it is one person or 1,000 people.
To do this, we must be more aware of those around us use intu-
ition and to determine whom we can positively affect. It is as
simple as saying “hi” to someone who never receives any saluta-
tions or just simply smiling at someone who has little joy. These
are things that will make you memorable.

Parent asks for respect for President

Dear Editor,

I’m not certain if you publish “letters to
the editor,” but if so, here goes. I picked up
an issue of your paper (3/15) on a visit to
W&L with my 17 year-old son. In that edi-
tion, ther was an article by Tran Kim (‘05) on
President Bush and his immigration policy.
What I personally found offensive was not
the tone nor the message of the article, but
rather the complete lack of manners on Ms.
Kim’s part. Whatever one thinks of the man,
he is the President of the United States and
should be written about as such, rather than
“Bush this” and “Bush that.” Respect isn’t
time consuming.

Sincerely,

Peter Maich

Alumnus applauds Courtney Perry

DearEditor,
This is a fan letter for your “The Last

Word” column of March 22, dealing with

dating “a—holery” and the jerks who prac-
tise it.

I was up from Atlanta just afterwards
for an alumni seminar. As an old Ring-tum
Phi reporter and beyond I perused the pa-
per. Your piece to promote peace between
the sexes stood out to me. ' I

The dynamics of common courtesy is a
subject well-taken in any era. The “a—holery"
you decry so well is a phenomena starting in
the time of cavemen wooing women with club
in hand. I would like to believe even back
then that gentlemen didn’t need that macho
security symbol to attain the exchange of the
ultimate courtesies with their sweethearts.
Gentlemen are gentle men, the obvious con-
traction of the root words.

 

I imagine some did use their clubs.
They were the jerks of their age, much as
the guys currently on campus who engage
their mouths to gang up on a brother and
his date before they engage their minds.

Fast—forward from the caves to my era
at W&L, graduating‘ in 1956, when coats
and ties and a really serious speaking tra-
dition were the norm. But still the same
old, same old gender issues from time im-
memorial-— the jealous verbal bullies brow-
beat the decent brothers who take pleasure
in the right way to court a lady, with con-
versation, humor, mutual interests, and
sharing good moments”. All before the earth
moves.

My only departure (I think it was only
once) from the dating norm was a different
form of “a—holery” but, nevertheless, “a-
holery.”

After a long Spring Saturday after-
noon of my sophomore year playing a lot
of midfield in a losing cause, I got very
drunk on my beautiful sweetheart.

She told me later that the night,'the
only gentlemanly thing I did was to roll off
her lap just before I threw up, all ofver the
front well of a senior brother’s convertible,
borrowed after much begging and plead-
ing. For my transgression I spent six weeks

cleaning the car. With‘ a toothbrush. She.

married someone else. «

Back up to your era and it’s still the
same old, same old. And at that age, there
is, unfortunately, a perverse status and ce-
lebrity among louts, loudmouths, and
boots in the competition to be the biggest
lout, louidmouth, and boor.

Fortunately, as you put so simply and
so well, decent people will find decent
people. Not fawning or obsequious people,
neither rude nor bullying people, the ma-

jority in the middle-- caring, sharing, de-

cent people. Onward, brave Courtney, and
Ring-tum Phi editors.
Sincerely,
Keith Rogers, ‘56

Taking issue with Safe Place secrecy

Dear Editor,

Colleges used to keep their friends informed.
A University was a place for exchange of news and
ideas. But those days have passed. Now the new,
Liberal ideology conﬂicts with the old ways, and
the truth is kept secret.

Consider Washington and Lee University. In
1999 the W&L Administration approved a non-dis-
crimination clause for homosexuality. Soon after-
wards a program called Safe Place, to promote ac-
ceptance of homosexuality, was brought to cam-
pus. Washington Hall quickly granted its approval
by appointing a faculty advisor, allowing the
University’s facilities for organization, and perrnit—

ting W&L’s name on Safe Place’s logo, now seen

on many faculty and administrators’ ofﬁce doors.
The Dean of Students also attended meetings of
the Gay-Straight Alliance, the organization that
brought Safe Place to W&L, and the Visiting Lec-
turers Fund paid for homosexual speakers on cam-
pus.

Yet when a request was made to inform W&L
alumni about Safe Place, a strange silence occurred.
Nothing appeared in the Alumni Magazine nor the
monthly email Bulletins, the normal channels of in-
fomiation to alumni. Despite repeated requests, this
silence endures, and today the vast majority of
alumni know nothing about Safe Place. Why? ...

Because the new, Liberal agenda might of-
fend some W&L alumni. The Administration fears
their reaction, and perhaps their reduced support
for the recent capital fundraising drive.

What is a University if it does not allow free
exchange of news and opinion? And how can an
institution that professes an Honor Code continue

to censor campus news? Recent W&L Presidents
have successfully kept Safe Place out of alumni pub-
lications, but in 2002 hope returned when President
Tom Burish was appointed. Here was a Psycholo-
gist who said he valued “free and open discussion”,
and who seemed to know the dangers of hiding the
truth. President Burish was soon informed of the
lack of news about Safe Place, and he gave his word
that by the end of academic year 2003 alumni would
be informed.

But once again, the news did not go out. In-
stead, a page was built into W&L’s website, ac-
cessed after reaching the homepage, clicking Cam-

pus Life, and then Safe Place. In other words, it was
buried. Only those alumni who use the intemet and,

somehow hear about Safe Place, and then search,
can learn about it. Thus the current Administration
continues to hide Safe Place from alumni. It remains
secret, except to students and recent graduates.

The Liberal agenda has no right or wrong; it
professes moral relativism. Today, despite W&L’s
Presbyterian founders, regardless of George
Washington’s and Robert E. Lee’s devout faith, we
are told that W&L was not established on religious
principles, and it will not be thus administered.

The Administration is now on a rudderless
course which has led it into a muddy bog. Yet a
dirty face is not as bad as a lost soul, and Washing-
ton Hall can still wash away our dishonor by de-
scribing Safe Place to all the W&L community.

Secrecy should not be part of W&L; it is dis-
honest. Students wrote in the recent ‘combined edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi and Trident “Only if we
are aﬂowed to express our views in the open mar-
ketplace of ideas can Washington and Lee evolve.
If we are censored, silenced or ignored, we become
what we dread most: dishonored.”The W&L Ad-
ministration should take a course in Honesty from
the students. They should tell the alumni about
Safe Place.

Sincerely,
David Keeling '73

shepherdcipps.wlu.edu

Free Summer Storage of all winter
clothes and bedding

. ‘U
o 0 0
Write for the P121! 3
TH*E _ _ , _ , N You want to go
A , . The Ring-tum Phi is always looking for fresh talent. We re Q to medical school,
APA  - — - - - ill youhaveyourBA
L Q g A -1* 0 R - looking for students from all classes and all majors to write in all 5 buuhe on|y' "
< ---------------------------- ~-> sections, Editorial ositions are also available for those who want a .5 '
R|CHMOND'S FREE LOCATOR SERVICE . P . 5 ‘°',°,If.I3.°,§f§.’i§'.§§°
can gr information and yourrre; map fun, challenging extracumcular ,, ham,“
' ' ° ' ' ' ' ° ° ' ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' " (If .
V Ph f P ts.
804-329-6666 , , , , ‘” ’‘'°‘‘’’ ‘’°
800-3 68-7669 For infoniiation, write phi@wlu.edu or call X4060. '0 w h
E-maII:vaIocator@gsc-apt.com ‘ e ave
ll’ a program
3 for you.
n.
Getreadyfor University Cleaners 9_.
- 7 North Jefferson Street g_ -5 g
N abors Service Day Lexington’ VA 24450 Come Celebrate 3
463-3622 M(¥her,st:Ia"' at 0% Columbia University’s
‘ emp e. 3;
May 1 5: 2004- University Cleaners offers full service storage for 20 Wwwashingm Sue“ 3 is
all your winter clothing and bedding. Each item is inl-Iistotic Dswntown Ammcarsoidestand best
' ' Lexington, irginia _
rrebeo $3.2?32§.iI.°'°fr.Z°Z‘i’J°’.”'Zl.l“;l2ll.T.If‘l;,  
. . I . . 9 ‘ 9  PP Y _ (5‘“’) 46245288 graduates have an 85%
good citizen for 0 day. Kickoff IS of your home address In July_ Storage ,8 free. temptme4@lycos.com placemematc in American
I 1’ projects Stan OT 12‘ Just Affiwdl medical schools. Call:
It couldn’t be easier, bring in your clothing this
Signups will take place throughout spring and pick it up_in_ the fall, clean, pressed,_ SP‘;,‘;1;‘a::: (800) 8904127
 a2rr:::r;:.rr:;.E:;’.i2:*e:;i:::::.*:;izaz." 
for addictional information. Bea d1;f;*;‘1ja“;i;f8fi;:r::: 

 

Register your mom for our
Mother’s Day drawing!
Prizes include a facial,
chocolates, $25 giﬁ certiﬁcate,
beaded shawl, pendant and
earrings.

C O LU M B IA
School of General Studies

 

V JOHNHYIAND

    

ASSIFANFSPORTS EDHOR
hylandjb@wluodu

 Rl't\i(}-’lUM‘ Put

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 2004

Women’s lax
seizes ODAC title

BY SARAH BLooM
STAFF WRITER

“Basically, the game was
an excellent opportunity for us
to come together as a team be-
fore the weekend,” said fresh-

man Kelly Evans of
Wednesday’s game against
Bridgewater.

The Generals defeated
Bridgewater 20-1, claiming 10
consecutive goals.

“The game was a great
opportunity for many different
people to score and to work on
the weaknesses in their game.
Many attackers played defense
and vice versa,” said Evans.

Despite this mixed up
ﬁeld of players, the Generals ac-
complished what they needed
to accomplish in order to pro-
ceed to the semi-finals compe-
tition on Saturday.

The highlight of the game
canre when senior Kelly Taﬂe left
the ﬁeld. Taffe rewrote the record
books for the Generals Wednes-
day, as she claimed the highest
position for all-time leader in
points earned in a career.

“This was very exciting
of course,” said Taffe. “but I
think the real glory was in win-
ning the game.”

Other goal earners in-
cluded senior Lee Wheeler and
Evans with 3 goals and l assist.
Freshman Avery Lovej oy lead the
team with 2 goals and 4 assists.

Saturday came and the
Generals again had to prepare to
defend their number one seed.
This time the team was stacked
up against 4th-seeded Randolph-
Macon. This team posed the
greatest threat as the Generals lost
Randolph-Macon in season play.

Again, the Generals left
the field victorious with a score
of 14-3. Karina Schiess said of
the success in the past two
games: “We soared above

Bridgewater’s level of play,
which kept us ﬂying high for
Saturday’s win.

Indeed, the Generals did
ﬂy high, ending the half with a
9-0 lead. Taffe again rewrote the
record books as the General’s
all-time point leader. Taffe
scored ﬁve goals and one as-
sist to put her at 231 points.

Also contributing to the
win were sophomore Kate Lester
with two goals and one assist and
senior Lee Wheeler with two
goals. Freshman Maggie Megear
and sophomore Amanda Strickler
each scored one goal and one
assist for the Generals.

Senior Joanna Perini also
did her share at the net to pro-
tect the Generals on the
scoreboard with 7 saves.

With this win, the Gener-
als advanced to the ODAC
championship game against
second seeded Virginia
Wesleyan on Sunday. Parents
and fans filled the stands to
support the girls in this ﬁnal
game of the season.

Just prior to the game,
Taffe said, “I think the perfor-
mance of the team this year has
been incredible‘. Everyone has
worked very hard and sacriﬁced
a lot to be where we are. Hope-
fully today will prove it.”

The Generals did not disap-
point. The girls walked away Vic-
toriouswith aﬁnal score of 11-9.

Goal earners included
Strickler with 4 goals, freshman
Mallory Lobisser with 3 goals,
and Wheeler with 1 goal. Lester
and junior Maggie Speasmaker
each scored one assist.

Taffe again broke her own
record with her 3 goals.

Emotions of the game could
be summed up at the concluding
buzzer. The stands erupted in
cheers for the Generals and the
women exchanged excited hugs
and shouts of victory.

PORTS

W& host DAC championship

GOING THE DISTANCE. Nathan Johnson runs in the
5000 meter run. Johnson was crowned the mens’

Co-Athlete of the meet at \X/ilson Field.

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

On Wednesday the Generals travelled to Guilford for its armual

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. -—- The Washington and
Lee men’s and women’s track teams both
ﬁnished fourth out of ﬁve teams as the
Generals hosted the 2004 ODAC Champi-
onships on Saturday.

Lynchburg won both the men’s
(185.5 points) and women’s (149) compe-
tition. Trailing the Hornets on the men’s
side were Bridgewater (178), Roanoke
(64), W&L (48.5) and Eastern Mennonite
(47). On the women’s side, Eastern Men-
nonite finished second (1 19), followed by

Roanoke (109), W&L (93) and
Bridgewater (53).
W&L junior Nathan Johnson (Lex-

ington, Va./Rockbridge County) was
crowned the men’s Co-Athlete of the Meet
along with Steward White of Bridgewater,
while Bridgewater’s Shane Stevens was
named the men’s Coach of the Year.
Ashley Palmer of Lynchburg was named
the women’s Athlete of the Meet, while
Lynchburg’s Jack Toms and Eastern
Mennonite’s Paul Johnson split for Coach
of the Year honors.

The Generals’ performance was
highlighted by seven All-ODAC perform-
ers, two individual titles and two school
records. Johnson earned his Co-Athlete
of the Meet title and All-ODAC honors
after winning both the 1500 meter run

PAGE 4

track meet

(4:O2.97) and the 5000 meterrun (l5:59t88).

For the W&L women’s squad, jun-
ior Meredith Walker (Travelers Rest, S .C./
Christ Church Episcopal) was a three-tirne
All-ODAC performer, taking second in the
100 meter dash (13.21) and anchoring both
the second-place 4x100 Relay and the
4x400 Relay. Freshman Sara Behmerwohld
(San Juan Capistrano, Calif./Dana Hills),
juniorAnn Tompins (McLean, VaJPotomac
School) and junior Kim Gunst (Richmond,
VaJDouglas Freeman) joined Walker as All-
ODAC runners in the 4x100, clocking a
school-record time of 51.68. Behmerwohld,
Gunst and freshman Huntley Rodes
(Nashville, Tenn./Harpeth Hall) also
earned All-ODAC laurels in the 4x400 Re-
lay with atime of 4: 14.82.

Behmerwold earned All-ODAC hon-
ors in the‘ 400 meter hurdles after taking
second with a school-record time of 68.40,
while junior Emily Barker (Clifton, Va./
Mount Vernon) rounded out the W&L
women’s All-ODAC athletes with a second-
place throw of 32.38 meters in the javelin.

Junior Steve Chambers (Christiana, Pal
Octorara Area) took third place in the 5000
meternmwith atime of 16:08.95, while junior
ChrisWall<er(Franklin,Mass/PaulVI)p1aced
thirdinthe shot with a 13.38 meter hurl.

Senior Brian Krupczak (Cohasset,

I Mass./Cohasset) rounded out the men’s

highest placewinners with third place ﬁn-
ish in the 100 meter dash (1 1.31).

Men’s lacrosse notches one-and-a-half wins in a week

Generals got scores from Senior Mike Attacknamara, Junior Jack
' Murray and one from Junior defenseman Eric Koch off a great indi-

vidual effort. However, the Tigers posted 2 goals of their own. Their

beatdown. It seemed like everyone on the team scored — except
junior midﬁelder Adam Chesbrough. “You know, I think I’m giving
up on offense; I mean, Chow-Chow scored,” was all the stunned
Chesbrough could muster in reply.

Good thing he’s really good at face-offs: he and fellow junior
midﬁelder Mike Barracco won 24 out of the 27 faceoffs in the game. Such
dominance in possession allowed the Generals to hang 20 goals on
Guilford. Senior attackman Matt Fink scored 5 goals, Senior midﬁelder
Dustin Martin scored 3, and then a ton of other people scored goals.

Last night the Generals hosted Harnpton—Sydney for the regular sea-
son ODAC crown. Scoring came in spurts for the Generals as the first
quarter got underway, goals from Martin, Freshman James  Ryan, and ,
Junior Gavin Molinelli put the Generals ahead 3 before the Tigers could
answer with a goal of their own. The Generals took a 4-2 lead into halftime.

Hampden-Sydney came out ﬁring after the half and the teams
traded big hits for much of the third. Scoring evened out a bit as the

hopes were dashed, however, by a fourth quarter dominated by W&L
possession. One ﬁnal goal from the Body sealed the deal, as the
Tigers, despite adding 2 goals to their tally, were unable to hold on to
the ball: they threw it at me, an innocent onlooker, twice.

Senior Ansel Sanders posted 5 stops on 11 shots, including
an astounding point-blank save that would have put the Tigers
within one goal late in the third. Sophomore Perrin Monroe played
inspired lacrosse yesterday, with his freshly-trimmed ﬂowing locks
and defined glute muscles giving him the “power” to win every
groundball in the midﬁeld.

Junior Bill Fox had two forced turnovers on Tiger clears that
allowed the Generals to maintain possession in third and fourth quar-
ters. Senior Matt Fink had two assists, while Molinelli had one goal
and two assists, despite being guarded by a very good-looking
defenseman, Courtie Peters. All-in-all, no one could beat the Gener-
als (and their fans) yesterday, especially not the Tigers. 1

63$ EYEWEAR IS VISION /3%

é

EYEWEAR IS STYLE ’
THE BEST OF BOTH IS AVAILABLE

at

The New Opticians

Boutique
[3 203 N. Main Street

F . Lexin ton
Hair:/i/0” 540-4639-7440 cs‘‘'°i’\%
85 www.newopticians.com

P Gr-_ad School
Gr veawa

Celebrate SpringTirne p
Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day"
Brides ~ Graduation
witha

   

Enter Kaplan's Grad School Giveaway
for a chance to win a free 42" Sony” Plasma
TV, Sony’ DVD Dream’ System, or MP3 player.

p Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris
  at . 1-800-KAP-TEST

(540) 2640063 kaptest.com/giveaway
Gift Certificates, Packages

Visit kaptest.com/giveaway to enter today!

Test Prep and Admissions

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. Open to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of
Columbia and Canada (excluding the Province oi‘ Quebec) and students residing ON A STUDENT VISA in these eiigble
jurisdictions who are elgiteen (18) years of age or older as of March 15, 2004. LIMIT: One entry per person. All
entries must be received or postmarked by June 15. 2004. For additional eiig'bil'rty restricti r and instructions to
enter, see the complete Official Rules, available at Kaplan centers and on-campus sites in the US. and Canada.
oniine at kaptest.com/giveaway. or by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to ‘Grad School" Giveaway, 1440
Broadway, 8' Floor. New York. NY 10018. Thirteen (13) winners will be selected from all eligible entries received In a
random drawing to be held on or about August 9, 2004. Odds of winning depend on total number of eligible entries
received. Participation in this promotion constitutes entrant's full and unconditional agreement to and acceptance of
the complete Official Rules. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED, TAXED OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED. If you do not wish to V
receive notice of future Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions promotions, contact us at Kapian Test Prep and
Admissions, Marketing Department, 1440 Broadway. 8" Floor, New York, NY 10018.

Speaking Engagements
Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

<I><I><I><I>

m

Seals

Creating solutions. changing lives.

0

Lightfoot at

summer: CAMP JOBS

Looking for the best summer of your life?

Camp Easter Seals in Virginia has job.
openings for camp counselors and program

leaders (aquatics, horseback riding, music,

nature, sports and more).
children and adults with disabilities or one
of our beautiful camping facilities. Staff
members come from across the US and
around the world. Room, board and salary
provided. For information contact Lauren
(8504)
IIightfoo’r@va.easter-seals.org

Work with

633-9855 or

line nay super sale!

WﬂtII9sllaV,A|ii‘i28ﬂI8:llla.llL-8:IIl|I.ﬂI.
'M(lHlliI‘l|iIl(MlHﬂﬂW/ill

IIIIKS
TAPES
APPAREL
IWELIIY
IEITVMIIIE

iiliasiirrutnrr anti lee ilriversitv BIll|(8tlIl'Ii

458-8634
.IIlI|ElI'llll}IlIIlIII8

P
H
I

mi-lDUO"'dc/2

Q9

 

JOHNHYIAND
A$lTANISPOKIS EDITOR

hylandjb@wluodu

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 2004
Tennis hosts

tournament

JANE BEALL
STAFF WRITER
The Washington and Lee University’s

4 women’s tennis program played host to the ODAC

tournament this weekend. The tournament, which
was ﬂighted and scored on total points, lasted three
days. Last year, the Generals swept all nine divi-
sions and are expected to repeat this season.

For the first round of tournament competi-
tion every General received a bye, automatically
advancing to the quarterfinals. All six singles com-
petitors and all three doubles teams for the Gener-
als were ranked first going into this round, and
combined to post nine wins. Freshman Kristen
McClung, playing in the second slot, and Senior
Liz Law, blanked their respective opponents from
Sweet Briar and Emory and Henry.

The Generals handled the semifinal round just
as easily. The Generals swept the singles competi-
tions 6-0 and advanced all of their players to the
ﬁnal round, played on Sunday. Freshman Katie
Kingsbury gave up a sole game in her match against
Virginia Wesleyan College’s Bethany Kent, and
former athlete of the week Ginny Wortham shut out
her opponent 6-0, 6-0.

The ﬁnals round of singles and the serni-ﬁ-
nals and ﬁnals rounds of doubles play were held
Sunday, and were scheduled to ﬁnish after this ar-
ticle went to print. If Washington and Lee per-
forms up to expectations, they’l1r take their four-

Eli Manning’s pre-draft antics soil famil

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRITER

It’s about time a Manning came along and
did something to upset fans and media, and more
importantly, me. To this point the biggest contro-
versy created by a Manning was when Peyton
hinted at possibly feeling a little bit cheated by not
winning the Heisman.

Just when we thought this family was per-
fect, the Chargers announce that they were told
not to take Eli Manning because he would rather
sit out the year than sign with them. The question
is, should this taint the good Manning family name,
or will the media and fans give them one freebie?

Call me old fashioned, but I will never think
of the Manning family the same. Eli isn’t the Latoya
of Manning’s who is bringing shame to his family.

Tilli RLi€(}-TUivI Pl-ll

PORTS

THE WINNERS. The womens’ tennis team continued
its winning ways during the ODAC tournament.

teenth ﬁrst-place ODAC tournament ﬁnish. Since
1991, the Generals have won the tournament every
year except in 2002, when they fell to Hollins. The
Generals, who are currently ranked second in the
South, expect to host at least the first round of the
Regional tournament, scheduled for May first. J un-
ior Lindsay Hagerman and freshman Ginny
Wortham both have high chances of advancing to
the individuals national tournament.

Rather, Archie Manning, Peyton and Eli’s fa-
ther, visited San Diego and was the one who deliv-
ered the devastating news to the Chargers. For the
whole family to back this decision and support his
threat that he would sit out the season rather than
sign with the Chargers (give me a break, only bluff-
ing) seems strange, especially with Archie being an
old-timer who would seem to support tradition. What
makes this claim even scarier is the leverage that he
holds and the trend this might set for future seasons.

Eli Maiming -is the consensus pick for top
quarterback in this year’s draft and as a result, sit-
ting out a year will .not end his career. He is tal-
ented enough to do what Drew Henson did and
start a bidding war once he achieves free agent
status. If he is successful in this, how many other
top ten picks would hold out to be taken by a qual-
ity team? After J.D._ Drew refused to sign with the

PAGE 5,_,

Baseball en teritrg slide with
two losses to Hampden-Sydney

BY JOHN HYLAND
AssiTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L baseball team
concluded their regular season
Saturday by losing both games
of a doubleheader to Hampden-
Sydney. W&L has now lost six
of their last eight games but hope
to get back on track to their early
season form when the ODAC
tournament starts on Thursday.

The Generals defeated
Roanoke on the road Wednesday
night. W&L sent righthander
Bryan Mulhem to the mound.
The senior battled with the
Roanoke starter, freshman stud
Jonathan Willis, through ﬁve in-
nings as neither team could mus-
ter a run. The Generals broke the
scoreless tie in the sixth when
sophomore second baseman
Scott Gosselink doubled home
senior shortstop Austin Allain.

Junior catcher Zach
Bausch followed with a single to
rightﬁeld that scored Allain. The
Maroons got a run back in the
seventh to cut the lead to 2-1.

Mulhern was relieved byvthe
team ace, senior lefty Peter Dean
in the eighth to try to preserve
the save. Neverthless, Mulhem
had pitched brilliantly, allowing
only one run over seven innings
and striking out four. Dean was
able to record a fairly routine six
outs to earn his second save of
the season as the Generals earned
a 3-1 victory. Mulhem evened his
season record at 2-2.

In game one in Farmville,
Hampden—Sydney jumped out to
an early 2-0 lead in the first in-
ning off of Dean but he was able
to battle back and allow the Gen-
erals to tie the score at 2 with
two manufactured runs on the
fifth. The game remained in a
deadlock until the Tigers’
Tommy Burk hit the game win-
ning single in the bottom of the
eleventh off of Mulhem, who
had replaced Dean in the tenth.

The nightcap provided a
lot more offense than the ﬁrst
game but just as difﬁcult a loss
for the Generals. W&L jumped

out to a 5-0 lead in the second, i

highlighted by Allain’s two run

single. The Tigers came back to j I I
score eight runs in the next four

innings to take an 8-7 lead. The
Generals responded as Mulhem

belted his second solo homer of - '

the day in the seventh and took
the lead in the eighth on
Gosselink’s two run single.

Once again, the Generals’ ‘

lead did not last for long as the
Tigers scored twice in the eighth
and the winning uneamed run in

the ninth to emerge 1 1- 10. Fresh- _ _

man Clayton Edwards suffered
his second loss of the season for
W&L. In addition to Mulhem’s

exploits at the plate, Allain and i 1 '

freshman designated hitter each
had three hits and Gosselink ﬁn-
ished 2 for 5 with three RBIs. The
Generals return to action in the
first round of the ODAC touma-
ment on Thursday in Lynchburg.
Their opponent is yet to be de-
terrnined. The team ﬁnished the
regular season with a record of
17-14, 11-7 ODAC.

y name, may incite baclcash

Phillies and chose to sit out a year, the next few
years saw several more players doing the same
thing. This defeats the purpose of the draft. Crappy
teams get better because they get early picks, and
the good teams must trade up for their talent.

The draft pick is supposed to make the team
good, which has been best modeled by the Dallas
Cowboys of the early ‘90s. This is where his deci-
sion makes even less sense! Does Eli Manning
feel that he can’t turn the Chargers around? Most
rookie quarterbacks would kill for a running back
like LaDanian Tonilinson in their first year, and the
combination of the two of them could be a great
historical duo to rival. . .oh I dunno, Peyton Man-
ning and Edgerrin James! '

Let’s remember the backlash J .D. Drew re-
ceived as a result of his refusal to sign with the

Phillies. Upon his return to Philadelphia batteries

where thrown at him. . .batteries! Frankly, I sup-
port this sort of activity, the booing
anyways...okay, not the violence, but I would

wholeheartedly support a barrage of boos from ' i K

the Charger fans should he ever play on the road
in San Diego. I do realize that John Elway did this

same thing and still became one of the most popu- _ —
lar athletes in the U.S., but I feel like the only way ' i '

for Eli to follow his footsteps is to have a similar,
hall of fame career with no off—ﬁeld problems. He
is certainly capable of this, but I still don’t think
that makes it right.

There’s no point to having the first overall
pick if you can’t select whomever you wish. I have
lost a tremendous amount of respect for Archie

Manning and no longer consider myself a fan of Eli , V ,

because, as freshman Alex Orr put it so eloquently,
‘,‘He’s (expeletive deleted) with the system!”

T

Tuesday, April 27

Wednesday, April 28

Thursday, April 29

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDIJLE

Saturday, May 1

Friday, April 30 J

t Sunday, May! 2

0 Open

0 M Lax hosts ODAC
Tournament--TBA

0 Baseball at ODAC
Tournament--TBA

0 Baseball at ODAC
Tournament-- TBA
0 M Tennis at NCAA
tournament-- TBA

TBA

I 0 Track at Mason Dixon-- 0 W Tennis at NCAA

0 M Tennis at ODAC
Tournament--TBA
0W Tennis at NCAA

l Tournament--TBA

Tournament--TBA

0 M Lacrosse hosts
ODAC Tournament--
TBA L

|NSPiﬂfEDBY H3‘ RD.

Seats five, has  suhic
feel of cargo space. and
is available with ‘IE0 hp
and a B-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
can’! fully explain 
 Ti};

   twat ..    “*t‘.=.ii.liﬁ$I3Q-l1il.é:.i.:‘
Bill;  AGTLBL %k5i|l.EH’F‘Fi'i'.é? mt-mil

PAGE 6 V

Spring Term las

As vague as the term “real world” can be, it’s pretty
safe to say that whatever it is, it’s not W&L. Nothing
emphasizes this fact more than Spring Term. Spring Term is
an experience that no other college students in the coun-
try get to have. Sure, there are some colleges out there, like
Bates College in Maine. that have a sirrrilar six week “short
term" at the end of the year.

But I assure you that in Lewiston, Maine there is
no Goshen, there is no front lawn in front of Lee Chapel
on which to play Frisbee, and there is no Buffalo Creek
festival when students light huge bon-
fires while listening to various sorts of
music all night long.

From lawn parties, to outdoor sports,
to only having class two days a week,
Spring Term maximizes everything great about W&L, while
minimizing the not so great. Being a graduating senior, I
know all too well that the workplace will not consist of out-
door keg parties or trips to horse races.

For those of us who will graduate and continue to live
off our parents for the rest of our lives, never having to earn
a single dollar or do one hour of real work, well, Spring Term
may never have to end. But for the rest of us who will some-
day have to earn our own living and be independent, Spring
Term, unfortunately, is a ﬂeeting part of college life that,
once gone, can never be revisited.

Vlfrth this in mind, we mustn’t take Spring Term for
granted, and take care to enjoy it as much as possible while
we have it. My favorite author once wrote “think only of the
past as its remembrance gives you pleasure,” and this
present Spring will soon be the past, so go out and make the
best of it, while giving yourself something to look back on
with a smile in your later years.

Having said this much there are a few things every
W&L student can do to make his or her spring term experi-
ence even better:

Lighten up. One of the worst things about Spring
Term is the cattiness. One could spend so much time dwell-
ing on that guy’s short shorts, or that girl’s figure in a
bathing suit, or that idiot with his collar up, or that girl’s
outfit, etc. etc. Frankly, I think most of the trends here
make people look ridiculous anyway (ﬂoppy hair, Lily
dresses—are you five?—eight—inch pearls that people
wear to the gym, designer bags that people carry while

 
 

  nrnrarii“
COURTNEY PERRY ‘O4

 

 

’il‘l%*l_l:i Ella-(.'.§-~”l'“2ij;\-ti PH.l

THE AST WORD

t respite before realworld

wearing athletic shorts, etc.). Stop taking yourself so seri-
ously! Does it really matter? So much time and energy is
wasted on such trivial matters when, instead, you could
be doing something a lot more positive and actually en-
joying yourself. For example . . .

Go out and meet or talk to people I realize my apparent
hypocrisy in saying this since half of you who do know me
are probably thanking your lucky stars that you don’t have
to talk to me on a regular basis (as opposed to most people
who are sitting there asking ‘who is this chick anyway, is she
' really a nude model, and how do we hire her
for a party?’ ). But think about it. The seniors
that are graduating may never even see some
of the underclassmen, or even some other
members of the senior class again. As for
the underclassmen, the seniors that are graduating may be
able to help you network once you get out into the real world,
so it wouldn’t hurt for you to get to know them for that rea-
son, on top of the sheer enjoyment of their company.

Do some pleasure reading. Let’s face it. We’re all aca-
demic types, otherwise we wouldn’t be here. Fall and Winter
Terms just don’t allow for the same kind of leisure time that
Spring Term does, so why not take advantage of that free time
do something pleasurable that can further your education as
well (that is why We’re here, right)? I recommend anything Jane
Austen. Her artistic use of language is amazing, while her sto-
ries are light and pleasing and always have a happy ending-
just the thing for a leisurely spring afternoon.

These are just some of the activities that can help to
make everyone’s Spring Term just a little bit better and help
everyone have a little more fun. And of course, always re-
member to be safe. With the nicer weather and added free
time of course comes added drinking.

Be considerate and respectful to those who choose
to remain sober, especially if they’re kind enough to drive
your sorry drunken ass around Lexington, or worse yet,
take care of your sorry drunken ass when you’re going to
the infrrmary or hospital. Such excessive behavior is not
enjoyable for anyone in said situation and of course will not
make for any pleasant memories for the future (if any memo-
ries at all). T 0 end on a lighter note, you’ll have to excuse me
for cutting this article a little short there’s a Powder
Puff game I have to get to. Oh, and one last thing . . . don’t
be an a—hole.

 

MONDAY, APRIL 23:'20()?l

l

Fun PHOTO

FUN IN THE SUN. These shirtless wonders had their fun during a past Spring Term. Are you?

e best locations on

 

      

atlord counts down th

1
l

FILE PHOTO

NUMBER EIGHT. The Chi Psi Library made Tirn’s list of W&L’s top stops. Read on to learn where else to go.

As the real estate cliche
goes, “Location is everything.”
Well, it just so happens that W&L,
a fantastic location in itself, has
plenty of lovely, unique, or just
plain quirky locations that make
our school even more of a delight.

Here’s my Top Eight Loca-

.tions on campus. Some are obvi-

ous. Some are a little more interest-
ing. And of course, some are slightly
se1f—serving. Please enjoy the list
and try to experience all these spots
in the ﬁve weeks we’ve got left.

8) Chi Psi’s Library ——As far as ‘

fraternity houses go, the Lodge is
the big-daddy of ‘em all. All poten-
tial frat boys who see the Lodge
for the first time dream of living in
one of those massive rooms in an
even more humongous house.
This house boasts an impressive
lawn, spacious basement, and
vaulting main hall, but by far, its
most delightful feature is its library.
Featuring two imposing portraits
of our namesake generals, this
room seems to come straight from

a congressional building or some
magniﬁcent manor. This library is
proof that there is some class to

our frattiriess at W&L.
7)HoweHallBioMiseum—Being
from a good West Virginian home,

my living room naturally has its
share of dead animals; we have
three deer, a boar, a fox, and a rac-
coon, to be exact. That’s why the
Howe Hall fourth ﬂoor “Dead Ani-
mal Room” feels like home to me. It
features all sorts of taxiderme! crea-
tures from throughout the world,

organized in a cozy way that makes
studying so easy. Take it from me,
as one who studies as little,as pos-
sible, that this is the perfect spot

I for late-night. reading or.end-of-

terrn cramming. As long as you
don’t mind the dead coyote star-
ing at you. A '

6) The University Center Men’s
Bathroom —— This pick might seem
a little odd, but to those who have
been there, it makes perfect sense.
This bathroom (the one just to the
right of where the GHQ used to be)
is just massive. It’s huge. It’s bigger
than most fraternity house dining
rooms, and is reminiscent of those
impressive bathrooms you encoun-
ter at pro sports stadiums. And
what’s great is that, despite the
double-digit urinals and numerous
stalls, this bathroom is used maybe
once a month. Whenever I find
myself in the University Center, I
always visit to pay my respects.

5) Cap’n Dick Smith Field —— To
those of you who haven’t seen a
W&L baseball home game, you’ve
missed out. Dick Smith ﬁeld is per-
fect, hidden peacefully in the woods
in the remote lands of the W&L uni-
verse. It looks even better compared
with its neighbor, the Pavilion, which

wins the prize as biggest and worst
eyesore on campus.

4) Newcomb 7 — By far, the great-
est classroom on campus. With

 tons of windows and loads of sun.- . ;
light, this location helps the studi—' 

ous and the distracted alike, espe-
cially in the '

nally, thehhall hg only seven
people, which just feels right.
2) The Liberty Hall Ruins — At
W&L, we are inundated by tradi-
tion from. many sources, and the
Ruins mightbe the nicest histori-
cal spot. On a fantastic spring day,
the Ruins are a

days of the old ABSOLUT FRATLQRD great place to study,
Co—op, when ‘ . relax, or catchanaf—
bored students TIM SMITH  temoon nap. While

could gaze out ‘

all windows and follow the general
bustle of the W&L day. And at
night, it makes an excellent study
room — just pull open the windows
and wait for friends to come dis-
tract you. You won’t be disap-

pointed.
3) Gilliam Dungeon —— The quirki—
est hall on campus, both by its lo-

cation and the people usually liv-
ing in it. First off, it has no dorm
counselor, leading to various un-
regulated illegalities. Then, there’s
the old dorm counselor room given
to a student. As far as I know, it’s
the only dorm room on campus
where a guy can get his own indi-
vidual bathroom. Of course, there’s
the pleasure of watching feet pass
by your window on the path to
Gaines on slow boring nights. Fi-

it’s a bit of a walk

in from the heart of campus, a trip to

the Ruins on a great day cannot be
outrnatched.
1)TheLambdaChiMoonmof—Yes,
it’s a debatable No. 1 choice. But
the moonroof holds a special place
in my heart. For each morning of
my sophomore year, it was undeni-
ably refreshing to wake up, stumble
out of bed and go out onto the
moonroof to start the day. The view
is awesome. It’s probably the high-
est point someone can stand (le-
gally) in Lexington. And right now,
with a hammock, some lawn furni-
ture, and a baby pool, the
moonroof has been the place I
spend my Spring Term aftemoons.
A great place to relax, or to just take
in the scenery, the moonroof is
probably my favorite location.

Q If the EC doesn’t keep records why do they

Q With all this EC bashing going on, I almost

Q Why is the McDonald’s in town so slow?

 

 
   

phi@wlu.edu

Q Everybody congratulate Dave “Chow Chow”
Olchowski for scoring a goal in the recent lacrosse
game as a defenseman.

Q Am I the only one with a crush on the Orbit
girl? -

Q Does it bother anyone else that our bath-
rooms are stocked with “recycled toilet paper”?

Q Note to Self: During ﬁnals week, you can go
to every single printer on campus and still not ﬁnd
one that works.

Q For all of you Hillary Duff fans: If you can’t
do the math, get out of the equation.

Q. How fast would lighting go if it didn't have
to zig—zag?

Q You’re only young once, but you can be im-
mature forever.

Q To the male aspiring to be Jessica Simpson:
it’s called Leybum Library, not American Idol. FYI,
the walls are thin.

have a secretary?

Q Is it not bad enough that the characterless
Commons is forced upon us with ridiculous acts
such as mandating fraternities to sponsor events
in the building? Can they not give us free Cokes on
examweek?

Q What’s up with the two C—school dudes that
got in a ﬁstﬁght over the US job growth rate in the
past month? Was it 308,000 or 125,000? My sources
tell me who cares, Beatus dominates Everett!

Q Here at W&L, calling someone a “functional
alcoholic” is considered to be among the highest
of compliments.

Q I was upset at the lack of a follow up article
by either back page columnist regarding the IM
basketball season. It seems the monkey was no
monkey at all. .

Q Cadavers, please remember to take your chalk
with you after you are done decorating the carn-
pus. Someone could easily pick it up and ﬁnger-
print it. -

Q Whoever said that The Phi should be inves-
tigated for sleep deprivation was way off. The Phi
puts me right to sleep every time.

forgot which frats I was supposed to hate. Al-
most.

Q Whoever left a dent in a 540 BMW in the
freshmen parking lot: either leave a note and pay
for it, or call me so you can get stomped.

Q Is saying a polyurethane coat is leather and
worth $250 considered an HV?

Q Callie leaned too far back in her chair in the
library and took a huge spill...she thinks no one
saw, but I saw the whole thing and it was hilarious!

Lessons learned from lacking suncreen: You
can wear a $500 Lilly sundress and still be a redneck
at the end of the day. -

Q Three cheers for the weather at Foxﬁeld.

Q I saw horses at Foxﬁeld! Four years and my
dream ﬁnally came true.

Q Can the Men’s Lacrosse team be stopped?
Nine wins in a row!

Q Today in 1964, Zanzibar joined Tanganyika
to form Tanzania. Isn’t that exciting?

_ Q Buy war bonds.

Q I always greet Alumni Weekend with mixed
feelings. Sure, it’s great to meet the Class of 1954,
but who wants to see that annoying alumnus who
graduated last year that has been coming back ev-
ery other weekend, again?

Q Celebrate Virginia’s history: Today in ‘1607,
the colonists who would later found Jamestown
first made landfall at Cape Henry. :-

Q At least those people who are running the
Generals’ Awareness Program had sense enough
to change the name from “Anti—Ignorance Cam-
paign.”

Q More: The people who wrote the “Aware-
ness” pamphlettes that are littering campus should
have done some spell-checking before printing up
2,000 copies.

Q We couldn’t afford Spring Term, but we can
afford a ﬂat TV in the Co—op? Who do they think is
going to sit down to watch TV there, especially if
it’s setto the History Channel?

Q Go, Pat, go! Beat Arlen!

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and tales
of Spring Term debauchery to phi @wlu.edu.

 

