  

 

I
P

BY WHITNEY DUFFY
STAFF wRITER

Currently, students at the University of Vir-
ginia are working to change their single sanction
honor system to one with varied punishments
based on the severity of the offense. A group of
students, called Hoos Against the Single Sanction,
has formed and been active around the UVA cam-
pus in their efforts to eliminate the single sanction.
This group’s goal is to “energize the honor policy-
making process by expanding it to the community
of trust at large,” according to a press release. Their
honor policy, first created in 1842 (yes-before that
of Washington and Lee!), had the goal of creating
a W&L-like environment, but in practice has fallen
short of this ambition.

One of the reasons that the anti-single sanc-
tion movement has garnered so much support is
that the UVA honor system has long struggled to
be effective at the school. Many students and pro-
fessors do not report honor violations, either tak-
ing matters into their own hands or, as more often
is the case, ignoring the problem. As a result of this
attitude, the system has been examined many times
in the past, but never quite like it is being ques-
tioned currently. Co—founder of the Hoos Against
Single Sanction, UVA student Marco Rivera, said,

Off-roading

expert to speak

on Tuesday

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

On Tuesday evening the Contact Committee
will bring Bill Burke to speak to the Washington
and Lee community about backcountry driving.
Contact, a committee dedicated to bringing vari-
ous speakers to the W&L community, has several
speakers planned for this school year. 4

Bill Burke is a 4x4 trainer and one of the fore-
most experts on winching and extrication methods.
He is an outﬁtter guide throughout the National
Forest Service and also serves as a consultant to
countless 4-wheel drive companies and organiza-
tions. He also competed in the Camel Trophy, which
is a 1,200 mile race in Africa.

The speech, held in the Commons from 7-8
p.m. Tuesday, will include a slide show along with
stories of his adventures and teaching the basic art
of 4-wheeling.

In addition to speaking to the W&L commu-
nity, Burke will also be leading a trip Monday from
3-8 in the evening. A group of students will be
heading to Shoecreek where Burke plans on teach-
ing some useful techniques in offroading.

David Kronenfeld ‘07, publicity chairman of

the Contact Committee who played a vital role in
getting Burke to speak is very excited about the
event. “He is amazing,” says Kronenfeld, “Bill is
definitely one of the best in the world and has an
amazing story to tell. It’s well worth coming to
even if you have never even heard of backcountry
driving.”

If you are interested, you can contact David
Kronenfeld ’O7 at kronenfeldd@wlu.edu, or Brent
Beshore ’05 at beshoreb@wlu.edu.

Nabors holds Fall
Service Challenge

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

Nabors Service League will kick off its armual
Fall Service Challenge on Saturday, October 9, con-
necting dozens of W&L students with service op-
portunities at local sites including libraries, retire-
ment communities, and the Rockbridge Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Volunteers will be sorted into groups based on
a list of tasks that each ranked according to prefer-
ence. N abors’ to—do list includes apple picking, car
washing, painting, yardwork, trash pick-up, con-
struction, and more. The Challenge also needs stu-
dents to be drivers or project leaders at each Site.

The groups will trundle out to their projects in
the morning or in the afternoon. In between, N abors
plans to treat all workers to a late morning brunch
on Cannan Green. Volunteers will also walk away

'1 Lee as the first social fraternity

   

T/ye rindeni none of Wei/iz'ngton and Lee Uninmin rinte 7897 ,

“We are merely trying to create a forum and see
what other people believe we should institute,” in-
stead of the single sanction. The UVA student body
seems open to the idea and their Honor Committee
(the UVA equivalent of the Executive Committee)
also seems receptive. “The
Committee is always support-
ive of students getting in-
volved outside of Honor to
help shape the system,” said
Honor Committee Chair
Meghan Sullivan, “It’s a good
thing for the honor system.”
But is it really? And can
we at W&L expect any
changes in our own system as
a result? The response from
the EC was an emphatic no.
“I do not think that a
change at UVA will have any
impact on W&L’s system.”
Marie Trimble, EC President, securely stated. “Stu-
dents who attend W&L come to this university
with the knowledge that we not only have a sys-
tem, but that we actually abide by it and live by it.”
Cristin Nunez, EC Vice—President, agreed with
Trimble, saying that while a change in such a promi-
nent university might cause students to question

“How are we, as members of the
EC, to decide if actions are only
slightly dishonorable or mostly
honorable? There is no way to
draw the line, and I look forward
to seeing how UVA is going to
accomplish this.”
CRISTENNUNEZ.
ECI/ICE-PRESIDENT

the single sanction, she would hope that ‘‘we don’t
change our standards here simply because of the
inﬂuence of other universities.”

Seasoned Honor Advocate Michael Lee, who
has worked on several EC investigations and closed
hearings, stated ﬁrmly that,
“No change to UVA’s honor
system could possibly affect
us here...The fact that other
universities are changing their
Honor Codes might even be
reason enough for us to en-
sure that our System doesn’t
change.”

So is there a possibility
that future student bodies will
question and attempt to
change our own single sanc-
tion system? “VVith the cur-
rent EC,” noted Nunez, “I
think nothing will change.
When we were elected, the student body knew our
views on the single sanction and elected us any-
way.” However, Nunez did mention, “I would never
rule out the possibility of a system change in the
future.”

“The Single Sanction is such a fundamental
tradition of the Honor System as handed down

Homecoming 2004

ROYALTY. Katie Abplanalp, escorted by Chi Psi member Chris McNamara, smiles to the crowd after being
named the 2004 Homecoming Queen during halftime of this weekend’s football game.

Two fratemities

celebrate

important anniversaries this year

Phi Kappa Psi, Kappa Alpha Order planning events 5

BY KATHERINE SHELL

ASST. NEWS EDITOR 05'

Last weekend Phi Kappa Psi
began its yearlong celebration of

its 150"‘ 3~nniVeT5a1Y as Well as the Alumni Weekend this year will be cember 21, 1865 in honor of Rob-
celebration of being the first focused around the ert E. Lee. Convivium this year
social fraternity on cam- sesquicentennial will focus on the 140"‘ celebration. ’

pus. Plans for this next
calendar year’s

  
  

events are still in the tion of the 150"‘ likely we will celebrate on the fol-
W0rl<s, but Various annivers ary lowing weekend. No specific
Weekends, Such "as will occur Sep- plans are in the works yet, how-
Alumni Weekend, the tember 8-1 1, ever,” states KA’s president
sesquicentennial in 2005. “This Mark Franceski ’05. Comprised
March. aIldI1eXtl‘l0me- weekend will of Alpha Tau Omega and Sigma
coming will revolve feature golftour- Nu, both founded at VMI, along
around 150 years of Phi naments, alumni with the Kappa Alpha Order,
Psi for the fraternity. Also, dinners, and speakers these three fraternities form what
the Kappa Alpha Order will cel— at Lee Chapel. Over 150 Vir— is commonly called the Lexing-
ebrate its 140"‘ year in 2005 as the ginia Beta alumni are expected ton Triad. i

Alpha Chapter. to attend this celebration,” Because the fraternity I

Phi Psi was founded on
March 3, 1855 at Washington and
port has carried
Phi Psi through
its 150 years.
Jerry Nelson, a
successful busi-

on campus. The Alpha Chapter
of Phi Psi was founded at Wash-
ington and Jefferson College in
Washington, Pennsylvania. The

Kappa Psi Erik Kiewet de Jonge
This weekend’s Homecom-

ing celebration kicked off the
150"‘ anniversary celebration and

as well. The big-

states Kiewet de Jonge.
Alumni sup-

positions.

For the Alpha chapter of the
Kappa Alpha Order, 2005 will
mark its 140"‘ anniversary since it
was founded on campus on De-

“’Ihe 19th (General Lee’s birth-

gest celebra- day) falls on Wednesday, so most

svstem is a part of
today’s life at
W&L, the cel—
ebration of the
first social frater-
nityaswellasthe
founding of three

 

, MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

Wahoos considering change to their single sanction system

since General Lee’s time that I don’t think it will
change,” affirmed Lee, “to do so would be to claim
that General Lee was wrong, and that won’t
ﬂy. . .The Honor System is not perfect, but as long
as the student body understands it and knows how
to behave honorably according to the system’s
guidelines, its benefits will always outweigh its
drawbacks.”

So, if instated, will the UVA change work?
“There are honorable actions and dishonorable
actions,” said Nunez, “How are we, as members of
the EC, to decide if actions are only slightly dis-
honorable or mostly honorable? There is no way to
draw the line, and I look forward to seeing how
UVA is going to accomplish this. They’re basically
judging degrees of integrity right now.”

UVA’s own EC, the Honor Committee, has re-
cently formed an ad hoc committee to decide just
that, whether or not degrees of integrity can be
measured fairly. Its final proposal will then be voted
on by the UVA student body in the spring of next
year.

As for back home at W&L, the single sanction
seems safe for the moment. However, with recent
student elections, this responsibility to either up-
hold or discard tradition in the best interest of the
student body now lies in hands of new student
representatives. ~

C—Schoolnow

housed in  
Huntley Hall

‘ BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

Former Washington and Lee president, Bob
Huntley, was recognized Saturday when the build-
ing that houses the Williams School formally be-
came Huntley Hall. The name change is a result of
the board wanting to honor President Huntley for
all his contributions to W&L.

The budding was originally a Carnegie Library.
Andrew Carnegie built libraries for schools all over
the country. It was enhanced and enlarged by gifts
from the Cyrus McCormick family. The building
then became the McCormick Library. When
Leybum was completed in the 1970s, the name
McCormick Library was dropped from the building
and it was never renamed. At the same time as the

library moved to Leyburn, the business school _

moved from N ewcomb to its current location. Stu-
dent began calling the building the C-School.

“McCormick had a long run, but his time has
passed,” said James Farrar, Secretary of the Uni-
versity and Assistant to the President.

Huntley graduated from the college in 1950
and the law school in 1957 and was president of
Washington and Lee from 1968-1983. During his
tenure as president, Leybum Library, the law school,
and the Warner Center were built, the McCormick
Library was converted to the School of Commerce,
and the physical plant grew significantly. “He
served the institution with great leadership and was
revered by students, faculty and alumni, and still
is,” said Cronin.

“He [Huntley] had one of the great challenges,”
said F arrar. Huntley arrived when chaos over Viet-
nam was breaking loose across college campuses.
Under his leadership, Washington and Lee did not
call off classes.
incompletes to protest if they wished. “He gave
the University level-headed and rational leadership
through the ‘70s,” said Farrar. Also during his time
as president, the first female law students and Afri-
can-American students matriculated.

, “When President Huntley came in the late ‘60s,
W&L’s development plan was still in the process
of manning,” said Farrar. As president, he launched
the ﬁrst multiniillion-dollar capital campaign. His
fundraising efforts took a burden off of the budget.
Financial aid and faculty salaries increased greatly
during his tenure.

One of his most significant acts as president
was board policy changes. When he arrived, the
board served life terms. He changed the policy so
there are term lirriits. “The sunset provides for new
energy, faces, and ideas,” said Farrar.

“The Vifilliams School is the name of the pro-
gram, not the building,” said Peter Cronin, Director
of University Development. Ernie Williams, for
whom the program is named, is a multimillion—dollar
donor to W&L. After graduating from W&L, he
became a stock broker and made a signiﬁcant in-
vestment in Washington and Lee. Both President

Students were allowed to take A

 

with a Commemorative water bome and the com- Virginia Beta chapter is the long— nessman and Phi fraternities in Lex- Burish and Dean Peppers contacted VVilliams about
fortable knowledge contributing to the Lexington est Continuous Chapter in the na‘ Psi. Offers an all- ington c0mmemo— the name change. Both Huntley and Williams are
H community. ti0n- “We Will Celebrate Our 0fti- expense paid rate a strong part proud the other is affiliated with the building.

4. Fall Service Challenge is only one event on Clal sesiluieehtehnial On March week at his resort of W&L’s history. When Huntley left W&L, he became CEO of
Nabors Service League’s packed calendar. Chal— 3, With eVeI1tS planned for that in Cabo San Students and Best& Company, run by the Sydney Lewis family.
lenge signups ended September 30, but new mem- day (3 Thursday) Or that Week- Lucas, Mexico, alumalikelook for— He currently resides in Lexington. The formal dedi—*
bers are always welcome. Anyone interested in er1d« The eVentS are Still in the where brothers can meet, vaca— ward to celebrating the upcom— cation took place outside of Huntley Hall 11 a.m.
further information can contact nsl@wlu.edu. Plannlngs” Says President Of Phi tion, and train for future business ing year. last

 

  

JAMES  tlEtl‘3tt'.-W ‘  ‘*
“V+"«SHiN'G‘v”ON 5: LE§.l':" ‘J
 '*=*rv<a VA zemso

 
 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

Presidential election 2004

OB TRONG THE RING-M

LIBERAL INVASION. Over six hundred local Democrats, including approximately one hundred W&L students, attended the Blue Dog Bash.

Over six hundred dems converge for rally at the pavilion

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Enthusiastic Democrats swarmed Washington and Lee’s Pa-
vilion last Wednesday for the “Blue Dog Bash,” a political rally that
set record numbers in attendance for a Democratic event and drew
several local and state politicians. More than 600 supporters, includ-
ing about l00 Washington and Lee students, gathered in support of
the Democratic Party as time draws near to the November 2”“ elec-
tions.

“This is by far the largest, most enthusiastic crowd that I’ve
ever seen at a Democratic event,” proclaimed David N atkin, who is
running for Commonwealth’s Attorney in Rockbridge County, the
first political campaign of his career. In early July, the local organizers
believed that Wednesday’s rally would only draw around 200 sup-

’ porters. The Democratic leaders pointed to the policies of the Bush

Administration as the main cause that ‘has led to large turnouts to
similar gatherings across the state of Virginia.

J oarma Persio ’05, President of the the Young Democrats ,
believes that the Blue Dog Bash will help David Natkin’s campaign
for Commonwealth Attorney, and hopes that her organization’s ef-
forts in getting out the vote will be fruitful.

“We’ve done phone marketing to identify who is undecided,
and who is eligible to vote but not yet registered,” Persio described.

The voter registration deadline ran out today, Oct. 4”‘. The

. Young Dems will remain active on campus leading up to Nov. 2"‘.

This Wednesday, the organization is sponsoring a showing of
0utFOXed, a documentary exploring the alleged bias in Fox News. A
discussion of bias in the media will be led by Prof. Wassennan of the
Journalism school. The screening will begin at 6pm in the Commons
Theatre.

 

Democrats excited about prospects in GOP leaning Va.

Party sees changing face in Va.

BY ROB ARMSTRONG ' /

STAFF WRITER f

In a state that has voted Republican in every Presidential elec- I

tion since 1964, Democrats remain optimistic about Kerry’s chances

to defeat the incumbent in Virginia. Susan R. Swecker, the State

Director of the Kerry campaign and a graduate of W&L Law noted

that a recent Mason—Dixon poll, taken in the days leading up to the 1“,
debate, show Bush with only a slight lead in Virginia. The results

were Bush - 49%, Kerry - 43%, and 1% going to Nader. But as the

Nader campaign failed to get on the Virginia ballot, the recent poll

shows Kerry within the margin of error.

Despite Gallup polls showing a modest advantage to Bush
in crucial swing states, Swecker maintains that what is most impor-
tant is the work that is being done on the ground.

“What is really important,in terms of Virginia, is a turnout
like here,” Swecker said, “It’s happening all over the state, we are
seeing passion and enthusiasm to replace the Bush Administration,
to put in [the Whitehouse] a team of leaders to get our economy
going in this country and to get our world affairs in order.”

Swecker is also confident about Kerry’s advantages with
the 30 and younger crowd. She described an increase in student
political participation ‘on college campuses throughout the state of
Virginia, and believes that “the young generation has checked into

this election, and they’re saying,_ ‘we don’t like what the President is .

in

doing.

On a more local scale, David N atkin discussed a similar phe-
nomenon in getting out the vote. N atkin said that Rockbridge county
and Lexington city have seen “many more new citizens getting regis-
tered to vote this year.” Natkin believes that this new wave tended to
register with the Democratic party.

Creigh Deeds was the third Democratic speaker at the rally.
Deeds currently serves as State Senator in Va, and will run for Attor-
ney General in 2005. When questioned about polls pointing to a
Bush lead, Deeds remained confident, “The only poll that matters is
November 2"“. All you can do is keep moving forward.” Until then,
the alleged changing demographics of voters in Virginia and local
Rockbridge county will remain political speculation.

Chapel. plans events for e

BY KATHRYN KRALL

STAFF WRITER

October 1 1, 2004 marks the 134"‘ anniversary
of the death of Robert E. Lee. Every year, Lee Chapel
holds a Memorial Program in honor of the former
president and in celebration of his life accomplish-
ments. The theme for this year’s memorial is Lee

after the Civil War.

Events include a speech by Alex Wise, the .
director of the Tredegar National Civil War Center
in Richmond. He will preserit a lecture on ‘Lee’s '
inner quest entitled “Remembering Robert E. 
Antoinette Brennan, a member of the Colonial Per-
formers for the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation,
will give a dramatic reading of an article written in
the 1920s by Christina Bonds, who knew Lee as a
young girl at the Greenbrier Resort. In addition,
Brennan will talk about the interpretation of Lee’s

character from the memoirs.

Afterward, there will be a small tour of some
items in the Washington and Lee collection that
belonged to Lee. The tour will be led by Lee Chapel
Director Patricia Hobbs, and Gwendoline Greiner.

As an intern in Lee Chapel over the summer,
Greiner did much of the background research that
eventually developed into this program. “We re-
ally want to make the campus generally aware of
what is going on in an ongoing effort to make W&L’s
collections more familiar,” said Greiner.

 

_ KFORD HE
MEMORIALIZING. Patricia Hobbs and Gwen Greiner show Off an old sketch of Le

e anniversary

G-M PHI
e CHapel.

New look suggests that parking is not a simple problem

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

The Phi reported last
week that the overwhelming
cause of limited campus park-
ing is due to delinquent stu-
dents. But after further investi-
gation, and a reassessment of
data that was received, the Phi
has concluded that last week’s
the problem was overly simpli-
fied.

Our previous article
found that the University ga-
rage was crowded despite an
alleged surplus in parking
spaces.

Last week’s conclusion
was drawn from comparing the
number of student registered
vehicles (541), to the total num-
ber of parking spots (609)-
However, a corrected tally of
registered student vehicles now
paints a different picture: there
just isn’t enough space to ac-
commodate everyone.

University Security re-
ports that a total of 619 students
have registered vehicles that
can freely use the garage for
parking. This ﬁgure is 10 more
than the number of total avail-
able spaces and 78 more ve-

_hicles than previously con-
cluded. In addition, this num-
ber does not take into account

faculty and staff vehicles that
have the freedom to park in most
lots around campus.

But since the faculty and
staff do not necessarily use the
University garage, it is “impos-
sible to determine an exact num-
ber of [W&L employees] that use
the garage on a given day,” ex-
plains Stephen Tomlinson, Asst.
Director of University Security.

The excess of registered ve- .

hicles to the garage does not nec-
essarily mean that there wouldn’t
be any open spaces available. Ac-
cording to Mike Young, Director
of University Security, “most
people aren’t there all the time . . .
there is a tum-over on a regular
basis.”

Young added that during
the first few weeks of the school
year, it is typical to have a spike in

- parking problems.

“People will begin to ﬁnd
other ways to get to school . . . and
the Davidson and Red Square
students may need some tickets
or to get towed a few times before
they start following the rules,” said
Young.

Although the current avail-
ability problems are expected as a
part of a new school season,
Young believes that this year has
been especially difficult. Reports
indicate that there are more com-
muting vehicles this year than in
the past. Moreover, there has

been a significant reduction in
overall parking due to the closure
of two surface lots as a result of
construction.

The Gaines dormitory park-
ing can only accommodate about
half of its 68 registered vehicles.

_ The overﬂow of vehicles was

once pushed to a surface lot that
had kept Gaines vehicles from us-
ing crucial spots in the garage
area. However, construction to
the Lenfest center has overtaken
the back-up lot, forcing the over-
ﬂow back into the University ga-
rage.

A second lot has been
eaten up by trailers being used
as ofﬁce space. Once temporary
classrooms for the Journalism
school during a renovation of
Reid Hall, the trailers now provide
office space to the physical plant.

It is estimated that over 90
spaces are not being utilized as a
result of the trailers. If the trailers
were to be remoi ed, the lot could
provide parking for residents of
Woods Creek. Such a move
would immediately free up 90
spaces in the garage that are be-
ing used as permanent parking.
Mike Young is not optimistic

about regaining either of these -

surface lots anytime soon. He is
currently discussing with the city
about additional surface lots.
One possible idea is to offer a
surface lot in proximity to the so-

rority houses. The garage cur-
rently hosts 68 student vehicles
from sororities.

Another idea would ex-
pand a small surface lot adjacent
to the University Mail Center, lo-
cated near Stop—In. Young be-
lieves that the expansion would
only open up more parking for
faculty and staff, but explains that
such a move would free up addi-
tional parking for students in
other areas on campus.

Young does not believe
that city ofﬁcials will hinder the
University’s efforts in building
new lots. “We have a good rela-
tionship with them,” Young said,
“and it is in their interest too.
They don’t want students taking
up downtown parking, because
then town residents won’t have
a place to par .” '

Last spring, a consultant
was hired to report on parking is-
sues at Washington and Lee. The
report is being ﬁnalized and will
be released in a few weeks.
Young believes that the Univer-
sity is moving towards a more
serious look at appropriate steps
to be taken regarding these prob-
lems.

In the meantime, Young
hopes that students, faculty, and

staff remain patient. He encour-'

ages commuters to car-pool, be-
lieving it will be easier on every-
one in the long run.

  

paholds annual Bowl-a-Thoqn

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER

Kappa Kappa Gamrna’s annual Philanthropy Bowl-a—Thon drew
about seventy people to Lexington Lanes last Thursday to beneﬁt
the American Heart Association.

The Bowl-a—Thon is Kappa’s first philanthropic event of the
year. All W&L students could bowl for free, and Kappa collected

. donations for the American Heart Association.

7 ' According to Kappa President Marian Steele, the B.owl-a—Thon
is a fun. way “to just get together with friends and go bowling.”
Kappas and other W&L community members alike were able to bowl
and socialize during the two hour event.

In December, Kappa will sponsor pictures with Santa in the
Elrod Commons and a 5K Marathon event, Race for Charlie, is planned
for the spring.

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

Siiiiiiiiipintrontnt

EC-funded student organizations

must remain non-partisan.

Now that it’s time for EC budget al-
locations, we have a few words of cau-
tion for student organizations that plan
on asking for EC funds..

In the Student Budget Policy, the EC
puts forth its guidelines, “It is the Execu-
tive Committee’s policy not to directly
fund politically partisan organizations or
organizations that advocate a certain re-
ligious faith.”

We are concerned that some ‘student
organizations that receive EC funds are,
in fact, politically partisan. We are not
suggesting that these organizations
shouldn’t receive funds. They should,
however, keep a check on their activi-
ties.

Both the Washington and Lee Stu-
dents for Life and the Gay-Straight Alli-
ance have the echoes of political parti-
sanship in their missions. The GSA, for
example, had Kerry-Edwards signs at the
Student Activities Fair. S i m i l a r l y ,
Washington and Lee students for Life is
hosting a Reverend to talk October 21.

There is a fine line between express-
ing or even teaching one’s belief and po-
litical/religious advocacy. We feel these
two groups may have crossed that line.

Responsibility for holding to the Stu-
dent Budget Policy lies with both the Ex-
ecutive Committee and the student or-
ganizations.

The EC allocates money in good
faith. Presidents of all student organiza-
tions should strive to be politically, and
religiously, impartial.

Granted, many gay issues cross over
into the political arena. Abortion is con-
tinuously brought up as an issue in politi-
cal campaigns.

Both the GSA and Students for Life
have goals laudable to some or all, but
we wonder if perhaps their organizations’
aims lie outside the realm of appropriate,
EC-funded activities. ' ‘ ‘ '  '0

 

“He was a Greenwich born vivant who
enjoyed gourmet food, a drop Of wine On
festive occasions, a silk bed and his Velvet
collar ”

~Obituary for Fido Graham .in theﬂrst
edition of the New York Dog Magazine

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderrnan

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Ediotr

Sports Editor

Asst. layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Corbin Blackford
Marshall Rule

Chad Kiewet de Jonge
Emily Hulen

Copy Editors Dane Boston
Shane Wilson

David Seifert
Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Director
Distribution Dir.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board. but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters, All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
S p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-rum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not ‘
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity."

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University
lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

l

   

CAIEYANOnzsON
OPINIONSEDHOR

mm m

4 N S

 

PAGE 3

“Withdraw” vs. “Dismissed”- transcript plea bargain
inconsistency for convicted HV students must be altered

Much of the current outrage from some stu-
dents regarding the honor system is, to borrow
a line from my man F. Scott Fitzgerald, just a lot
of sound and fury, signifying nothing. While
one might feel a general desire to “reform” the
honor system, it can often be hard to

their closed hearing, they have a stark fear of
the moment when the EC comes out of their
deliberations. The entire structure of their life
is threatened. And if the EC pronounces them
guilty, they get pushed close to the emotional

stead of the ominous “dismissed.” You can
dance around questions from the schools you
apply for transfer to a lot easier if you “with-
drew.” In other words, it’s easier to rebuild your
life, even if, in all reality, you didn’t really “with-

draw” in the sense of the word most

turn that desire into solid, affirmative
action. It is easier to blame the Execu-
tive Committee for failing to act than
to ask them to correct an injustice.
And since I believe that this year’s EC
is genuinely committed to positive
change and listening (and acting upon)
student thought regarding the honor
system,

MODERATE’S MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

I have a proposal.

When students leave this school
because of the Honor System, they
have a myriad of reasons why, and they
can do so at several different stages
in the process of judging a potential
Honor Violation. I’d imagine that it’s
hard for most students here to imag-
ine how it must feel to go through the
process of being tried on an HV, as the
number of people charged with viola-
tions each year is minimal, and a good
number of those leave the University.
Thus, many students admittedly can’t
comprehend what’s going on in the
heads of accused students.

As an Honor Advocate, I see and
deal with just this sort of accused stu-
dent. The emotional strain of it drives
people close to their breaking point-
they are, after all, threatened with a
life—changing, negative event that’s

liberal arts colleges think of.

What this is, in effect, is a form
of bribery/plea bargaining that is sanc-
tioned by the White Book. In ex-
change for not causing all the hassle
of a Student Body hearing, they get a
much easier pass to another school, or
to an employer. This, in my own
humble opinion, is somewhat duplici-
tous, and against the spirit of what we
consider honor at W&L. When you’re
a student making this stressed choice,
you’re pretty much being pushed into
leaving rather than appealing, because
of the false security that the “with—
drew” provides, in addition to the fear
of “dismissed.” This is not fair, and
does not give the student a fair chance
at considering appealing to the Student
Body, which is a right.

Therefore, I believe that the
White Book ought to be changed to
eliminate this transcript plea bargain-
ing. Either you should be “dismissed”
all the way, or you should get “with-
drawn” on there all the way. Person-
ally, I think it ought to be “dismissed.”
When we say “withdrew,” we’re tell-
ing a half—truth to any colleges or em-
ployers that consider the person af-
terwards; “dismissed” is more honest.
Still, always putting “withdrew” in-
stead would also be better than the
current arrangement. Either one elimi-
nates the unfair pressure towards leav-
ing the school, whether it’s in the face

humiliating and costly, whether

they’re guilty or not. People who are charged
with Honor Violations are panicky from the mo-
ment they’re charged until the final verdict.
They are not in a state of mind where they can
make important decisions or even think particu-
larly clearly.

There is a facet of the Honor System which
is an unfair‘ detriment to the accused, especially
giventhat their state of mind issomething simi-
lar to the above. When a student goes through

brink. It’s an awful time in anyone’s life, and
it’s an awful thing to witness.

And yet, at this very moment, we ask them
to make a critically important decision. “Within
seventy—two hours,” they, have to decide
whether they’re going to leave Washington &
Lee or appeal to a student body hearing. And
herein lies the problem. '

If you decide to leave rather than appeal;
you get a “withdrew” on your transcript, in-

of an honor violation, or after being
found guilty in a Closed Hearing.

Do you agree with me? Ifyou’re an EC mem-
ber, bring it up. If not, officially proposing an
amendment to the White Book when you’re not
on the EC or the White Book Review Committee
means you need a petition with 50 signatures.
That petition is in the cafe, on the left end of the
counter in the front (you know, right next to where
they make the cold sandwiches). Sign it the next
time you walk by.

Heroes walk among us at the University

This Friday will mark my debut in the ﬁlm industry. While its not
quite the starring role I imagined it to be, I’m meeting it with excitement

and enthusiasm. In contrast to the typical image
a movie premier provides, mine will leave some-
thing to be desired. For starters, its not in Holly-
wood. It will be premiered in Pueblo, Colorado.
I’m sure this seems quite unusual, but it is a
ﬁtting place. Being over 100 miles away from the
nearest major city (Denver), Pueblo is the “Home
of Heroes”, the birthplace of four Congressional
Medal of Honor recipients. This medal is the high-
est military award that can be awarded to any
member of the armed forces and my small role is

in a PBS documentary about these four
men.
IN THE IRONS When 1
CARISSA SHIPLEY ‘07 was ab°“‘
1r—.m—#— 5 years
old, I

started taking piano lessons from an elderly
woman who lived nearby. Every Thursday after-
noon until I was about 14, I met with her for an
hour. Over the course of these years, I became
close to her and her husband, Bill.

Sometimes, I would have lessons at her
house and when my dad wasn’t working during
the winters, he would take me to lessons and sit
and talk with Mr. Crawford I saw the photographs
of him along with various presidents hung on

the walls in his house, but I never really understood why he got to meet
so many leaders. Slowly the story of his heroism was revealed and I was

amazed.

During WWI, Mr. Crawford served in Italy. After the original scout
was killed, Mr. Crawford took on scouting duty and took out three ma-

, photo courtesy of cmohs.org
HONOR. Respect must be given to recipients of above.

chine gun nests on his own. He talked about bullets going by his head
and between his legs but nonetheless surged ahead and allowed his pla-

toon to advance. Eventually, he was then taken
as a Prisoner of War and forced to march for 52
days over 500 miles during the middle of winter.
He told me many incredible stories of trying to
survive as a prisoner. After returning home, he
became a janitor at the Air Force Academy, going
largely unnoticed for many years.

As I said in the interview for PBS, to me, a hero
is someone who shows strength of character by
being modest, real, and courageous.

In an ironic parallel, we seem to have someone
of the sort right here on campus. While he may
not have a Medal of Honor, I think he does show
an admirable character. After my last article, he
emailed me about his dream.

Because I’m writing this article last minute, I
haven’t gotten his permission to print his name,
so just know that there is a janitor among us who
could teach us something. While working here,
he is continuing his education and raising four
children. The coolest part, in my opinion, is that
only two of his children are his biologically. The
third is adopted and the fourth is a foster child,
the sibling of the third.

While Pueblo may be the “Home of Heroes”,
we should be mindful thateveryday heroes still
walk among us in disguise and treat everyone as

we would treat those more obvious heroes.
As an anonymous quote reminds us, “we should always keep the

door open for the hero who can touch our souls, give us a deeper under-

standing of what is truly important in life, and allow us to gain strength
from the footprints they have left_in our hearts, changing us forever.”

Senator Kerry- 20%

Ring-tum Phi Quick Poll:

“W120 W011 the first presidential debate?”

President Bush- 16%

50 students polled, 27 female, 23 male- Poll has 95% conﬁdence in +/- 5% margin of error

Neither one-64%

 

I

  

 

PAGE 4

I’m a freshman. And Ijust
broke one of the cardinal
rules of editorial writing —
opening with the obvious.
Damn it. I was off to such a
good start.

But as a freshman, please
keep in mind that all of this
that is so old to you is so new
to me, so I am just bubbling
over with the obvious and ap-
parent, and I

classes would cost. The
Newspaper Rule is that every-
thing you do could be in the
newspaper tomorrow; would
you be happy with that? The
Party Rules are:

a). Don’t drink before 5,

b). have $5, an ID and your
phone

will proceed INTROD[jC1NG___ c). Be aware
to share it of your sur-
with you de— MARY CH1LD5‘08 roundings

spite how well

you know everything I will
say. Bear with.

’ I arrived on this campus
with the training wheels of
parents carrying my stuff in,
building, moving and clean-
ing my furniture and Momma
Childs posting the “Mom’s
Rules for College Living”
prominently on my wall. They
read as follows:

1. Bathe Daily

2. Learn $280 worth ev-
ery weekday

3. Wash your hands

4. Get an average of 8
hours of sleep every
night

5. Eat an average of 3
meals a day

6. Work out at least 3
times a week

7. Remember the Party
Rules

8. Remember the News-
paper Rule

And yes, she calculated
how much a day’s worth of

(1). drink one, maybe two
beers, and

e). be home by one, maybe two
o’clock.

These are written up for
me, on hot pink papers,
posted carefully in my room.
Any person that has walked
in my room has stopped, read
them, laughed, and asked for
an explanation.

The funny thing is, these
rules all seemed fairly do—able
when I left home. Ha, ha, eat
an average of three meals a
day? Can do! Bathe Daily? Of
course!

But now that I’m here,
when I miss breakfast and kind
of lunch, and proceed to eat
continuously from four
o’clock on, is that three
meals? Can I really define any
of those as meals? The answer
is, of course, no. ’

And while I still bathe
daily, it’s a battle to get my-
self up to do it.

The working out rule is a
joke. I never took that one se-
riously anyway.

During orientation week,
I noticed that this was a
strange hybrid of a world we

A Oiiiibns 
Frosh reahzes normal standards of

Moniny, OCTOBER 4, 2004:

inhabit, where all
standards of behavior flew
out of the window and were
replaced by an easier—to-foi-
low, rounding—up, It’ll-never-
happen—to—me set of stan-
dards.

Even the basics were chal-
lenged. I mean, when I was

of 
yesterday’s rules and obvious "
VA you up right when they say

trust these fraternity boys.
They seem nice; they pick

they will, and they’re still
there if you show up hours
late.

But overall I feel like I’ve
done a fairly decentjob find-
ing middle ground between
this “Hop in, and I will take

“And it doesn’t seem sketchy to me anymore to
stroll up to a random car driven by a random
kid and go to a place named after dishwashing
aids or silver—medalist ﬁgure skaters. Or even

Hooterville.”

about two years old, the ba-
sic rules were don’t take
candy from strangers, don’t
get into cars with strangers,
and wear your seatbelt.

So day one of orientation,
I hop into the trunk of a SUV
driven by a guy named Dave,
or Rusty, or Pippin (who could
have been a local rapist as far
as I know, I never saw his
face), and I curl up as small as
possible so that all 24 of us
can comfortably, and safely I
might add, fit into the back,
to go to a party where I will
drink things that look and
smellllike candy from a
trashcan.

Morn never even had to
tell me not to consume things
out of trashcans; that one was
kind of a given.

But now, all of this seems
completely normal. And it
doesn’t seem sketchy to me
anymore to stroll up to a ran-
dom car driven by a random
kid and go to a place named
after dishwashing aids or sil-
ver-medalist figure skaters. Or
even Hooterville. Because I

you twenty miles down a
country road that you can
only assume ends in a frater-
nity party” world and Mom’s
Basic Rules for College ‘Liv-
ing. ’ C

I feel like I’ve pretty
much stayed within some
(modified) parameters, and
while I may or may not have
strayed from the Good Idea
Zone once or twice, I think it’s
been solid so far. I come home
quasi—early,

I’m pretty responsible,
and I always have my phone
and ID, and I’m aware of my
surroundings. And that’s
most of the battle.

I feel, on the whole, that
the Honor Code and small
campus take care of a lot of
the rest of the “dangers” and
the other vague and ominous
words that haunted my
“Why—can’t—I-stay—out-later”
arguments of yore.

As we took our first baby
steps into this brave new
word, wide-eyed and speech-

‘less, we left our mommy’s

home-cooked meals behind,

conduct do not a

 

pply at W&L

  
  

  

 

I /700

TRUST. One of the many ﬁne sundries made available by W&L’s frats for
young, impressionable freshmen women.

and now fill the void with
FroYo and Lucky Charms.

And 1 think that’s OK —
at least until that infamous
frosh Fifteen really starts to
catch up.

to Contact Mary Childs,
email childsm@wlu.edu.

whose honor it’s named in.

 

Football— T F aaaaaaantastic.

Phi Delt band— T Best bluegrass I’ve heard in a while.

Katie Abplanalp-T Vive la reine.

  Ups and Downs  

Men’s Soccer Refs- i Court Nexsen got a freaking JUDO move put on him by a Randolph-Macon
defender, and HE got the foul. And that was one of many, many ref injustices in the 1-1 tie.

San Diego Padres—  So close.....the worst heartbreaks are the relationships that get close.
C-School— 4--6 Huntley Hall, Williams School, everyone’s still going to call it the C-School no matter

Debate- T That was FUN to watch. The Prez better get on the ball for the next one.
Californians- T We’re TAKING OVER THE CAMPUS! HAHAHAHAHA!

Cafe Michel— T This hidden Lex jewel serves some of the best “freedom” food around.

Homecoming Banners— 4-» Some were good, but man, some needed a LOT more effort.

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell, and
what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Bluegrass Wed. mornings at Lex Coffee Shop—  Bluegrass + W&L = Scrumtrilescent.

Caley for 2006 EC Rep— T As my campaign starts, I’m like the Ralph Nader of my class’ campus

elections: This year, I’m shooting for 25 votes.

EC— G-+ Insanely busy this week. On second thought, maybe I don’t necessarily WANT the job.

Robert E. Lee- T I say that his greatest connibutions to this country’s legacy came from 1865-1870, right

here on the Hill.

Martha/Mothra Stewar1  Is it justice if a trumped up charge gets a trumped up celebrity? I mean, she
probably did something wrong, but what they essentially did is pull the old “get them on a lesser crime/

technicality” trick, like tax evasion and Al Capone.

Homecoming- T Somehow it seemed a lot more fun than last year. Couldn’t tell you why.
Supreme Court Justice Scalia- ?? “sekual orgies eliminate social tension and ought to be encouraged.”

Poker- 1‘ One of my favorite games has become a pop culture force in recent years. N ow, if only the same

thing could happen to chess, so I’d be less of a nerd.

Co-op/Cafe salsa T That’s damn good stuff.

 

O Since

1897

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS
$1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you

schedule your non-sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact Campus
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

Take
Pics
for

as
X450

Are you
opinionated?
Write for the Phi
X4060

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party
Cruise!

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTravel.com
1-800-678-6386

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
  

 

"‘i'-llllil-|*" '

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Rnphine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 * 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
finish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Callforworkshoﬂzdassinfonnation.

Halfway " * Lexington and Slaunlon
On I-81 / I-64 at all 205. Raphine. mile: west on
Route 606. Raphine RM //W/r/W a working
farm that oﬂers "U-PICK” opportunities for fmh
fruit when in season.

Tues - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
www m

   

  

 

er 1:/z'imedz'a.arg _ _

    

PAGE 5

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2004

  

Generals give football fans reason to cheer

Homecoming game leaves home fan excited,
team begins this season with 1-0 ODAC record

STORY COURTESY
SPORTS INFORMATION

Thanks to stiﬂing defense, the Gen-
erals were able to shut out Randolph
Macon College on Saturday 17-0.

In a game that did not resemble typi-
cal Washington and Lee football, the
Generals played a near perfect game on
their Homecoming Weekend.

Midway through the first quarter the
Generals scored on a 9 year run by Jun-
ior, Michael Lackett. W&L had started
the drive at the Randolph Macon’s 23
yard line, after a Robert Foster intercep-
tion.

Foster made another big play in the
third quarter when he stripped Randolph
Macon’s quarterback allowing Stuart
Swarm to pick up the fumble and return

it 49 yards for the touchdown.

Foster finished the day with a
school record tying five sacks to go
along with his eight tackles. Senior Lloyd
VV1lson added a game high nine tackles
along with and two sacks.

In total, Randolph Macon had only
1 19 yards and were held to -6 yards rush-
ing the ball, which was in large part due
to the Generals recording a school record
10 sacks overall.

While the defense was clearly the
leading light of the game, the Generals
also did well on the other side of the
ball. Lackett ﬁnished up with 1 l carries
and 79 yards while quarterback Greg
T‘weardy added 111 more through the
air.

VV1th the win, the Generals improve
their record to 2-2 overall and 1-0 in the
ODAC.

 

KELLY Bos / G-TUM PHI

BRING IT ON. W&L cheerleaders show an infectious school spirit during Saturday’s Homecoming game.

Gritter reﬂects on baseball season

Atlanta Braves the ‘best franshise in all of sports, ’LosAngeIes Dodgers this year’s ‘dark horse’

BY RYAN GRITTER
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

As the season comes to a close I
often like to look back at the predictions
from the beginning of the year and com-
pare. Though there are always surprises

‘ . to be found, this year has proven to be

more entertaining than usual. Not only
are the awards not working out as
planned, but the playoff picture includes
many teams who, on paper, shouldn’t
be there. Anyways, here are my choices
for the MVP and Cy Young winners fol-
lowed by a look at the teams in the play-
offs.

I American League

MVP — Vladimir Guerrero — While a
case could be made for Ichiro or Tejada,
the fact of the matter is, neither of their
respective teams won. Ichiro, despite
being the best leadoff man in the league
(ever?), scored 20 fewer runs than Vlad
did, and Tejada’s batting average isn’t
high enough to propel him past Guerrero
despite his major league leading 149
RBI’s. Vladimir led his team to the play-
offs and posted ridiculous numbers, .337-
39-l26 (BA-HR-RBI) with 124 runs
scored on the side to lead the AL.

Cy Young — Johan Santana — I hate hate
hate all the talk about Curt Schilling pos-
sibly getting it because he has more

wins. Curt Schilling has ONE MORE
WIN.....just one. Wins often depend
more on your team than anything else
anyway. Just look at Randy Johnson this
year, second in the majors in ERA and
he has 14 losses. Anyways, Santana has
20 wins, led the AL in strikeouts and
ERA, and was the ace of a playoff team.
There’s never been a more obvious Cy
Young winner than Johan Santana.

National League

MVP — Adrian Beltre — Clearly names
like Bonds and Pujols come up as other
good options, but Adrian Beltre had the
largest impact on his team of the three. I
say that bearing in mind the last couple
years during which the Dodgers have
had the pitching but a complete lack of
offense. Beltre gave them more than what
they needed. No one ever expected him
to be a triple crown threat. . ..even before
the 5 years of sucking in the pros. I’m a
firm believer that an MVP often doesn’t
have a great supporting cast, placing
more emphasis on him. Pujols has Rolen,
Edmonds, and to a lesser extent Walker.
Bonds is of course a legitimate pick since
he is the heart and soul of the Giants,
but he seems to affect the lineup too
much. He inﬂates the stats of his fellow
players to decent level and they fade in
the playoffs. Bonds just doesn’t get the
RBI’s because of this. So while I would
completely accept Bonds, Beltre’s stats

are very comparable (.338-48-121) to
Bonds’ (.363-45_—l0l).

Cy Young - Roger Clemens — I wish
there was a font I could put that in that
would make it look unsure. I’m not a
Roger Clemens fan, but I think statisti-
cally he makes the best case this year.
Peavy led the majors in ERA (2.27) but
only had 15 wins and 166 Innings.
Schmidt and Pavano are the other major

“thgi than/dfo/d
in z‘/yep/cg/oﬁr like a true

Atlanta Braves team ”

contenders, their records respectively
17-7 and 18-8. Both had ERA’s compa-
rable to Clemen’s but slightly higher.
Where the separation come as I see it is
Clemen’s 4 losses. 18-4 is an obscene
winning percentage, and he stepped up
with Roy Oswalt and got his team into
the playoffs. You just can’t make much
of a case for anyone over him, so “the
Rocket” (two strokes) gets it.

New York Yankees- once again they’re
stacked and favored in the playoffs, but
the pitching staff (as predicted) has been
shaky. If Orlando Hernandez steps up
they could do well, they certainly have

the offense .... ..gosh I hate them.

Boston Red Sox - Not as convincing to
look at but they’ve been riding a hot
streak and there really isn’t a hole in their
lineup unless Pokey’s playing. The duo
of Schilling and Pedro is reminiscent of
the D’Backs miracle World Series a three
years ago.

Minnesota Twins - They have the pitch-
ing, assuming Santana handles the
playoffs well, but the offense doesn’t
deserve to win a world series. Having
said that, the offenses of the Angels
and Marlins weren’t that impressive
either, and they’re wearing rings instead
of the two previously mentioned teams.

Anaheim Angels — I can’t see them do-
ingmuch in the playoffs, they have a
great offense, but now that offense
doesn’t have Jose Guillen, who ac-
counted for more than 100 RBI’s this
season. The pitching staff lacks the top
notch starter that the other playoff teams
have.

St. Louis Cardinals - They got so lucky
with their pitching staff, Carpenter came
back brilliantly, and Jason Marquis
emerged as a spectacular bottom of the
rotation starter. The staff doesn’t have
playoff experience, though. Unfortu-
nately, beating the Cardinals is much

more about containing the

offense. . good luck.

Atlanta Braves - The best franchise in
all of sports. No matter what losses they
suffer, management and Bobby Cox come
out with a contender. But they should
fold in the playoffs like a true Atlanta
Braves team. They’re solid, and could
very well win the first series, but I don’t
see them getting through two.

Los Angeles Dodgers — They have the
pitching. ...kindof. The starters have
done a fantastic job, but there are no
proven, big names on the roster. The
bullpen is unquestioned and the offense
is solid. They’re a dark horse this year, if
the pitchers do what they did in the regu-
lar season they could be tough in a se-
ries.

Houston Astros — The offense has tons
of veteran experience and a heating up
Jeff Bagwell. The staff has a one two
combo that rivals any other team in these
playoffs and Brad Lidge has done a phe-
nomenal job closing for them. Still, the
Astros led by the killer B’s have never
had much playoff success and they
don’t seem to have the makeup to com-
pete with the Cardinals offense. But the

 

"Tuesdil

afield Hockey g. .,
.atiLiLynchburg~4:3{}lV A

 

Wednesday

' M Soccer
at Emory and Henry--4
° W Soccer vs. Hollins--4:30

 gird -grater‘ own.

For rruara irrrormation,
cnrrmct Jason mine
£3090) 494--£599 3110443

jknnalirasmocotpw-new

s’-7in<::l not new you: can use your degree and
~rr:tuntear' experience to assist. casrarmnrtéea in
ﬁeveiaprvga eeuntrsaa azrzsurid ilia:  Den
this osripertunitgra as hall: in a ﬂame  arecmiiier
and learn how wt;  make a dTa‘fenance iiwéws’

wedmadar. September 29

Home snags: Tatar  seamen
3 we ears.  3:00 am. 7:911! - 9100 
Eircan U. (“summons Cescrunol
Living Fioom  221
Parana corps

 

 Week in 

° Volleyball at

Fnday

Emory Invitat:ional——4:30
' Field Hockey at
Eastern Mennonite--5230

' ’\X?Socce1: at _

Invitatiorialwz '

°MSoccerat

  Saturday

s  Wesleyanellr 
' Volleyball at Emory’ 

'  at Centrewlzﬁi)

Hameden 53'311€Y-11 

Sunday

° W Soccer at Chowan——l

 

   
  
  
  
 

Want to write
about sports?

Join us at

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
wvvw.ststrave|.com.

MIKE SEEGER

BENEFIT CONCERT
FOR HEALTHY Foons Coop
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 10
7: 00 P.M.; TICKETS $10

 

LENFEST CENTER
Tickets mrraare ax Heahfky Foods 4'63-6954

  

 

PAGE 6

Generals
dominate
home track

STORY COURTESY
SPORTS INFORMATION

LEXINGTON, Va. — The Washing-
ton and Lee men’s and women’s cross

country teams were in action on Satur-

day as they hosted the Generals Invita-
tional at the Dick Miller Cross Country

Course. The W&L men ﬁnished first of

three teams, while the women placed sec-
ond of four teams.

For the men, junior Nathan Johnson

(Lexington, Va./Rockbridge County) won
the race with a time of 28:33. Senior Steve
Chambers (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area)
ﬁnished third of 37 runners with a time
of 29:31, while junior Andrew Johnson
(Blairstown, N .J ./Blair Academy) com-
pleted the course in 30: 1 1 to place fourth.
On the women’s side, sophomore Julie

Harris (Richmond, Va./St. Catherines) led

the way with a sixth place ﬁnish (27:24)
out of 28 runners. Sophomore Debra
Kubas (Colchester, Conn./Bacon Acad-
emy) ﬁnished eighth with a time of 27:55,
while junior Ashley Brown (Kingwood,
W.Va./Preston) ﬁnished ninth with a time
of 28: 13.

Washington and Lee returns to ac-
tion on Saturday as it competes in the
Virginia State Championships in
Ha1risonburg,Va., at 10:30 am.

 

MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 20, 2004



Hagerman wins

women ’s

singles

Hagerman moves on to I TA Small
College National Championship

STORY COURTESY
SPORTS INFORMATION

FREDERICKSBURG, Va. — Senior
Lindsay Hagerman (Wichita Falls,
Texas/I-Iighland Park), of the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s tennis team, cap-
tured the main draw singles champion-
ship for the second consecutive year
at the ITA Southeast Region Champi-
onship hosted by the University of
Mary Washington on Monday after-
noon.

Hagerman, the top—seeded player
in the tournament, knocked off third-
seeded Mona Iyer of Carnegie Mellon,
6- 1, 6-0, in the semifinals before defeat-
ing fellow General, sophomore Kristen
McClung (Charleston, W. Va./Charles-
ton Catholic), 6-1, 6-0, in the champi-
onship match. McClung advanced to
the ﬁnal after defeating second—seeded
Amy Staloch of Carnegie Mellon, 0-6,
6-3, 6-0, in the semifinals.

In the final of the main draw
doubles, Hagerman and senior Lora
Farris (Dallas, Texas/Highland Park)
lost to the duo of Iyer and Staloch, 8-6.

In B-draw singles action, freshman
Catherine Rentschler (Hamilton, Ohio/
Ursuline Academy) was defeated by
Mary Washington’s Emily Brimer, 7-6
(7-5), 6-4, in the semifinals.

In B—draw doubles play, W&L had
two teams advance to the champion-
ship match. Freshman Kelly Will (Holly
Springs, N.C./Cary Academy) and
sophomore Amanda Haines (Eden,
N .C./N .C. Science & Math) will square
off against the freshmen duo of
Rebecca Timmis (Peachtree City, Ga./
McIntosh) and Leah Weston (Colo-
rado Springs, Colo./Air Academy) at
practice on Tuesday.

Hagerman advanced to the ITA
Small College National Championship
to be held on the campus of Florida
Gulf Coast University in Fort Myers,
Fla. from Oct. 14-17.

Soccer ’s scintillating
offense stings wasps

WiItshire’s hat trick
leads women’s
soccer over Emory
and Henry, 8-0

BY JOHN BOVAY
SUPPLEMENTED BY W&L
SPORTS RELEASE

The Lady Generals’ soccer team
took on Emory & Henry in ODAC ac-
tion on Saturday, and proved the
strength of their team with a dominat-
ing 8-0 win. Sophomore forward Anne
VViltshire led the team with three sec-
ond-half goals and an assist. Three of
her teammates scored goals, and the
Washington & Lee defense proved in-
domitable as they refused to allow a
shot on goal.

The game was characterized by
one-sided play, as freshman forward
Shana Oltmans scored twice in the first
fourteen minutes to follow up her two_

 

   

   
   
     
 

 

 
  
   

 _  Lahamxioekeynereatsmmrw

 

Re@onal(I0I3)* I : '~   = goa3ofthegaiIiewithjnst,un_derﬁvenzin~
v ” V, utes remaining to givethe-_Washington

Washington‘ ‘arid {Lee seaii:$r.,Pa1i1"‘:

 

lliresliinan. defender  Karts (V2:- A
: giniaénjeaah. Vairélex)  her  .1

 J  fieid team (32-"1 victory; ‘

Shay (Martinez,ir;§a.1Augu
have both advanced» rs?‘
semiﬁnals of the ‘ITA 
held at Gaucher College. f

McClure jasaempaas, ‘renzwsaemgais 
University School}. anejmeq: David.” ,

   
  
 

 over Washington  sundagar;
temepgi at the W&L ms: ﬁeld. ‘

 

J  

 ?  

. Th5;1Washing:on,and L£~‘é.xnen’s scagzceri
 iayedg its  donhiemverﬁme‘.
 of  and came away i5t%ith'''

, a 1-;1jtie‘ against 0DAC~rivaI;Ranéolph~ .

Magda Colleges on Saturday 
atwatt Figléds  ' V ' 1 ..

 

goals earlier in the week against
Bridgewater. After Oltmans’ second
goal, W&L went on a long dry streak
with many close opportunities. The
Wasps stopped over a dozen straight
shots from the Generals late in the first
half and early in the second half, but
rarely had any opportunities to score.

They managed to hang in the game
despite their short bench until Gener-
als sophomore Sarah Helms‘ assisted
the first goal of the second half, a text-
book pass to VViltshire’s header with
few defenders near the goal. Afew min-
utes later, VViltshire dribbledx around
several Wasps season, as she leads the
team with 9 goals and 21 points. Helms
still leads the team in assists, with 7 for
the year.

The Generals’ overall record im-
proved to 7-2-1, with a 5-1 record in the
ODAC, their lone loss coming against
nationally ranked Virginia Wesleyan.
Their next game is Tuesday, when they
host Guilford (3-7, 2-2 ODAC) on Tues-
day at 4:00. The Wasps record dropped
to 3-6-1 (1-2 ODAC). Generals head
coach Neil Cunningham picked up his
50"‘ win at W&L in only his fourth year
here, posting an impressive .794 win-
ning percentage.

 

v-..,3_:-it¥1_ri;<'1«0I.2) 

.:¢a:e-éxrendaféits 0D3’xCWi111*3F¥8.  . . J
,tcr36 consecutive matclies with far 
of wins on Saturday.aftemoon.; 

    
  
 

Tliewashington anriilsee  (E A

Ger1era.ls.dewne<}  Mennonite
30-14,- 30-95,; 30-22, before: 

A '1 Lynchhmg, 30520, 30.22, 3018. ,   .

   

 

 

EARN HOW YOU CAN LEAD THE 
TO END EDUCATIONAL lNEOUlTY..

Wednesdajg October 6, 7:00 pm * \Williams School 235

Witch alumni guest speaker Claibczrne Taylor, ‘O2

“nun GENERATION MUST mtecn nus ISSUE. 
‘   ’

wwwgteachfnrame rica.m'g

 

Fm: ir1riiz»'£¢£ucr[r £2327 rzrzrderrrir“ rri:r;'rJr§ arm? stirrer irz’frri~:<°.ts. Frail reiéiryr srrrrz’ rlrezrfefr éerrcjjﬁizfs.

 

 

  

PAGE 7

’llIi/li.llll\‘%G-~'l'L??.\<ll)l~ll

RTS

Z

  LIFE

EMILYEDWARDS
Ans & LIFE EDITOR

EMAiI;EDwARosnI@v<IIIII)u
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

RAIN, RAIN GO AWAYl ‘

LOVELY LADIES. Looking like picture-perfect W&L girls even in the rain, Kappa Delta sophomores enjoy the Homecoming football game against Randolph Macon this weekend. from left to ng/Jt:Kathryn
Brennan, Bebe Terrell, Tricia W/illiams, Megan Hunt, Whimey Dickson. Umbrellas have been a “must-have” accessory to colorful sundresses this rainy fall term.

This October, many music ‘greats’ release new albums

BY BLAIR CRUNK
STAFF WRITER

With October upon us, it is important to note three things.
First of all, this means that fall is certainly here. Second,
October will bring my birthday on the 28”’. Perhaps most im-
portantly, October marks a month inwhich the music world will
release arguably a higher quality of studio albums as com-
pared to the summer months.

In my column this week, I will discuss and recommend
four albums, one of which is a must-have for any W&L stu-
dent. In addition to the albums,that I will discuss, there are
three which receive Honorable Mentions and should be noted.
These three albums, with their release dates, include:

Acoustic Syndicate — “Long Way ‘Round” (10/12)
The'Strokes — “Live at Alexandra Palace” (10/12)
Brooks & Dunn — “Greatest Hits, Volume 2” (10/19)

George Strait — 50 Number Ones — This October 5"‘ release
has been in the works from the critical1y—acc1aimed “King
George” for years now. No, that’s not a misprint, either. This
double-disc set will showcase all fifty of Strait’s number one
hits, in addition to one new song — “I Hate Everything,” the
single that is currently racing up the Billboard country charts.
From the twangy “Baby’s Gotten Good at Goodbye,” the tear-
in—my—beer ‘‘All My Ex’s Live in Texas,” the anthem—like
“Heartland,” all the way to “I Can Still Make Cheyenne,”
Strait gives country his best shot at his own all—star team.
Even if you’re not the biggest Strait fan, take a look at the

song lineup on the album, and I guarantee that you’ll be '

surprised. This promises to be the best-selling of Strait’s
career and possibly the highest-grossing country release of
2004.

-R.E.M. — Around the Sun — For the first time since May of
2001, Michael Stipe and the rest of R.E.M. are releasing a
full-1ength_studio album. Scheduled to be released on Octo-
ber 5"‘, “Around the Sun” follows 2001’_s “Reveal” (which
featured singles “Imitation of Life”. and “All the Way to
Reno”) and the 2003 greatest hits release entitled “In Time:
The Best of R.E.M. 1988-2003.” On National Public Radio’s
(NPR) online music show “All Songs Considered,” host’Bob
Boilen along with music reviewers Will Hermes, Tom Moon,
and Meredith Ochs about the most anticipated releases for
fall 2004; this list includes the latest record from R.E.M. Even
though the band has not enjoyed true “rock star success”
since 1992 with the haunting “Automatic for the People” or
perhaps the 1994 release “Monster,” critics remain optimis-
tic that this record will be one to bring R.E.M. back onto the
music scene. A preview listening party to celebrate the re-
lease of “Around the Sun” will take place on October 4”‘ at a
bar in Athens, Georgia, the band’s hometown. If you happen
to be at the University of Georgia that night for some odd
reason, be sure to check it out.

John Mellencamp - Words & Music: John Mellencamp’s
Greatest Hits —_This double—CD set is scheduled for an Oc-
tober 19"‘ release date and features 35 of Cougar’s biggest
hits and two new songs, “Walk Tall” and “Thank You.” These
two new tracks have a “new feel” to them and were co-pro-
duced by Mellencamp and Kenneth “Babyface”iEdmonds.
From the classic “Pink Houses” to the soulful “Dance Na-
ked,” all the way to his 2003 hit “Teardrops Will Fall,”
Mellencamp proves with this record that he can still rock. In
listening to this album, it is interesting to note how
Me11encamp’s music has both changed and matured from his
first single release in 1979 (“I Need A Lover”) all the way to
the present, nearly 25 years later. With this release, the

W&L Bookstore P rese nts..

A weekly featu rs of the Bookstore and the R ing-Turn Phi

This week:

 

for yourself of your favorite baseball ‘Fan.

Iiegula-‘price: $5.00
This week: $19.99

Student Book of the Week

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

Seymour, Indiana native proves that it is possible to come
from a small town and still have the opportunity to make a
name for yourself. In Mellencamp’s words, “Got nothin’
against a big town / Still hayseed enough to say / Look who’s
in the big town.” This album contains a little of both — the
hayseed and the city; and it makes for a fantastic combina-
tion.

Eddie From Ohio — This Is Me — While the previous three
albums are recommended, this particular record is a must-
have for any normal, civilized person. This Virginia-based
“folk-ernative” quartet is scheduled to release their latest al-
bum on October 19”‘ and continue proving why they are “the
best band you’ve never heard of,” according to a fan website.
It may be deceiving, but female Murphy Wells (a Virginia Tech
graduate) is the lead singer of this band, and she teamed up
with JMU graduates Robbie Schaefer, Eddie Hartness and
Michael Clem in 1991 to form Eddie from Ohio. They began
playing covers in neighborhood bars in towns across the Com-
monwealth and in the DC area before 1999 when they finally
caught a break and began playing small concert halls with
entirely original music. Too alternative to be classified as
folk, but too folk to be classified as alternative, Murphy and
her boys have enjoyed a cult—like following for the past five
years and released seven albums altogether. “This Is Me”
promises to be no different than the seven that have pre-
ceded it — a folkishly alternative sound with bluegrass refer-
ences, containing lyrics that will force both smiles and reflec-
tions. This album will remain true to Eddie from Ohio’s roots
and expand upon what the band has already accomplished.
With their tight harmonies and humorous lyrics, Eddie from
Ohio deserves more than a “Yeah, I’ve heard of them.” They
deserve to be in your collection. . .and this is the album to make
that happen.

Looking for Christmas gifts? Try The Book.

For your inner Jacques Cousteau (may he rest in peace),
$1,700,000 will buy you a submarine. Well, sort of. The
Deep Flight Aviator has room for two and handles much like

For as long as I can remember, I have eagerly antici-
pated the arrival of Neiman Marcus’ The Christmas Book.
October could never seem to come soon enough. My oth-
erwise deplorable weekend (Auburn massacred my beloved
boys in orange) was brightened, if only for a nanosecond,
when my mother handed me The Book on Sunday morning
as Iheaded back to Lexington.

For those of you not familiar with The

a ﬁghter jet. You and your “copilot” can reach depths of
1500 feet, and you needn’t worry about the marine life. The

engines generate zero pollution and very little noise. ,
For those of you blacktop maniacs with a need for

speed (like myself), pages 16 and 17 feature a special edition
Maserati Quattroporte. Personally, I wouldrather have last
year’s BMW 645i that they offered, but,
alas. The 2005 Quattroporte goes from

Book, it is a delightful collection of both
affordable -and ridiculously priced gar-
ments and gadgets perfectly suited for him
and her. This year’s Christmas book does
not disappoint.

For those of you who are tired of driv-
ing to Lexington Lanes, you can have your
very own 5000 square foot bowling alley
complete with four regulation lanes, 36 pre-

“For those of you who are
tired of driving to
Lexington Lanes, you can
' have your Very own 5000
square foot bowling
al_ley...for $1,450,000”

0-60 in 5.1 seconds and has a top speed
of 170mph. If you choose to take ad-
vantage of this offer, you can have your
very own nameplate on the side of this
Italian road monster. The least expen-
sive of our exotic quartet, Quattroporte
can be yours for $125,000.

And ﬁnally, for you plebeians,
The Book offers six (count ‘em, SIX)

mium balls, glow-in-the-dark pins, and

pages of gifts under $50. From darling

With baseball playoffs starting this week, this is the perfect
book to celebrate America's pastime and it's most storied rivalry
— Yankees vs. Red Sox. As the author tells the rich story of one
gameat Fenway Park, he introduces us to a host of personalities
in and around the game and gives us a humanized look at baseball
from rarely seen perspectives. Described as “vivid” and “almost

cinematic,” this well-written account could be the perfect gift

plasma TVs. His and hers bowling shoes

$1,450,000.

are also included. The package is very reasonably priced at

For the traveler in you, Neiman Marcus and Zeppelin
have teamed up to offer the Zeppelin NT airship. This ain’t
your momma’s Hindenburg. This airship can achieve a top

Kate Spade keychains and pocket mir-
rors to electronic dog ID tags and golﬁng gift sets, there is
something for everyone.

And, although it is only October, there is no reason not
to be in the Christmas spirit. I mean, my lovely Woods
Creek apartment is ready for Thanksgiving with a three—foot

speed of 70 knots, has a ﬂight duration of 24 hours, and can
accommodate you and 14 of your closest friends. Your one-
of—a-kind airship is even more reasonably priced at
$10,000,000.

tall inﬂatable turkey!
If it hasn’t already arrived in your mailbox, The Book
can be viewed online at www.neimanmarcus.com

 

 

 

  
 

int: Rt\tG~'rLwr Pin

   

EMILYEDWARDS

AKIS&LlPEEDI’IOR
mm wm
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2004

Frat bands give hope and direction during the college years

*_ POTATO MAN
MARSHAIL RULE

 

Homecoming Weekend has come and gone,
but the memories will always be in my heart.
Of course, there is thejoy of seeing our gradu-
ated friends come back and relive the “best
four years of their lives.” There are the cock-
tail parties and drinking champagne after mid-
night on the balcony. There is the opportu-
nity to cure Saturday morning’s hangover with
a gin bucket before the football game.

But by far the most enjoyable part of the
weekend is the countless frat band parties.
There is really nothing like frat bands in the
world.

Unlike real bands, frat bands play, not for
the cash or the love of the music, but for free
Natty Light. Between songs they yell for more
beer and everyone cheers. Am I the only per-
son that finds this funny? I mean here are a
hundred or so people packed into a basement
drinking and nobody thinks twice about it, yet
when some thirty something bass player chugs
a beer on stage the place goes crazy.

The whole time they are “performing”
(and I use quotation marks because you can

- hardly call frat concerts performances) they’re

asking themselves where they went wrong in
high school. I don’t think playing for 50 guys
with their collar ﬂipped up, 50 girls wearing
pearls, and four VMI cadets standing in the
back corner attempting to find a girl that has a
thing for men in uniform, is what these bands
had in mind when they formed their band.
They imagined a crew to carry all of their
equipment; instead they get the sound midget.

Frat bands live a lifestyle that few people

Q Darrin you, John Kerry! How DARE you forget
to list Poland among our allies?! !

 

Q Will someone please give Bush a couple Xanax
before the next debate?

Q For my birthday I would like newly single Meg
O’Brien and S.B. Northen. Thank you.

Q Saying youlll only volunteer for a community
service if your best friend will do it with you is sooo
freshman-like.

Q “I don’t do community service” is not an ac-
ceptable response when someone asks if you’d like
to sign up for a service project.

Q There are three types of shots: The kind the
doctor gives you, the kind a gangster gives you,
and the kind a frat guy gives you.

RBIN BI_A(.KFORD/ t e
OPEN DOORS. New shoestore opens in old photoshop on Main Street.

TAKE ME HOME TONIGI{I'.

could keep up with. Driving all day to play in
a muggy basement with a hundred kids who
are chanting “Ace of Base, Ace of Base” is
not for everyone. As Fiji showed us last year
when they got Cory Morrow to play, even fa-
mous singers can’t keep up with the frat band
life. Too much drinking before, during, and
after the show doesn’t help the old vocal
cords. And we are much more forgiving to
frat bands. We expect them to suck. So if
they get wasted and are horrible no one really
cares. But if a real band gets screws up and

BY ELYSE MOODY
STAFF WRITER

Pumpkinseeds owner opens   shoestore downtown

You probably don’t re-
member visiting a photog-
raphy store on Main Street.
The windows were painted
black, and, to be honest,
the store was pretty unin-
viting.

After a summer of hard
work, Pumpkinseeds owner
Siobhan Lomax has converted
this intimate space into ex-
actly what Lexington needs:
a ridiculously cute shoe
store. A

Molly Gillbride Shoes
offers a wide selection ‘of
shoes and accessories
with thoughtful, distinc-
tive details for every oc-
casion and taste imagin-
able.

The design of the bou-
tique reﬂects the style of its
apparel—quirky, eclectic,
and fun. With a wall of re-
cently-restored windows
providing a ton of natural
light, the interior of the store
seems a lot larger than it ac-
tually is. '

Muted purple tones
cover the walls, trimmed with

 

 

rig-tum 1

Q Stupid freshman quote of the week: “Yea, even
though she doesn’t drink she’ll be a really cool
date. She told me the other day, ‘You'll get so
drunk that l’ll just get drunk off you.’ I mean, isn’t
that sweet?”

Q To hear more dumb freshmen quotes in person,
hang out at the commons around 1:00am any week-
night. '

Q Has anyone noticed how stacked the guy’s
swim team is this year?

Q Happy Birthday to our favorite NRA chairman
Charlton Heston who turns 80 today. You can go
shoot some skeet in honor or reﬂect upon the fact
that he’s one year closer to having the gun pried
out of his cold, dead fingers.

Q Ohio: the state Mr. Grover WISHES he was
from.  '

Q Quick Hits and Potato Man are the two best
things to happen to the Ring-tum Phi.

Q Corbin! is the new Jeb! However, he is not the
new Brett, but don’t tell him that.

Q Freshmen men are never permitted to lick, touch,
or otherwise contact any senior against his will.

Q Turtles are my second favorite animals, behind
giraffes, but my friend likes elephants. LOSER!

Frat bands experience it all, from the free, oftentimes tasteless beer to th muggy
basements and the quintessential random hookup. Isn’t that what college is all about?

sucks, riots will ensue.

All frat bands play roughly the same
songs. They always include Sweet Home Ala-
bama for the southerners and wannabe
southerners like me. And it’s never a frat con-
cert without Friends in Low Places and Fam-
ily Tradition. And unlike real bands, frat
bands let you request songs. They’ll play
basically any song just because the guy in
the front wearing Aviator glasses is scream-
ing, “Play Jessie’s girl. Please play Jessie’s
girl.” If they don’t know the song being re-

quested they’ll let us sing it for them. This is.

the most beautiful idea ever. These so called
musicians get us to do their job for them, and
instead of getting yelled at by a boss, people
think they are the best band ever for it. ‘

By far the best thing about frat bands is
the hot girl lead singer. _You know the one;
she’s been staring at you all night. You’re
pretty sure she wants you, so you avoid danc-
ing with other girls just so she doesn’t get the
wrong idea. You tell all your friends there is a
70 percent chance of hooking up with her. They
laugh now but you know the truth. So after the
show you go up to the stage to start up a con-
versation. Next thing you know she introduces
you to the drummer named Rusty Drumsticks,
a.k.a. her boyfriend. You go home rejected and
sad, until you remember you just got the new
Maxim under your mattress.

Think about all the things these frat bands
get to see. They get a front row seat to watch-
ing one night stands develop. They watch as a
freshman guy finally gets the courage up to
start dancing with the hot little number from
South Carolina and begins to make his move
just as the upperclassman comes in to swoop
her away to a frat bed with promises of hard
liquor and a night she will never forget. In-
stead she gets a shot of Aristocrat and a life-
time of regret.

Frat bands give people like me hope. They
show us that just because we have no idea what
we are going to do when we graduate and have
no direction in life, we can always fall back on
rocking out in a frat basement all night. All we
have to do is learn a few 80s songs on the key-
board and we’re set for life. Hundreds of drunk
kids that love you, free Natty Light, and my
own personal sound midget? Sounds like the
life to me.

dark wood and funky de-
tails—a chandelier is. made
out of straw hats. Unusual
details like this give the
store and the shoes that it
sells a stylish, unique
edge.

Lomax said that they
would be increasing their in-
ventory dramatically over
the next few weeks, but an
ample selection is already
available.

Shoes by designers like
Chinese Laundry, BCBGirls,
Jeffrey Campbell, and JC
range from funky ﬂats to so-
phisticated heels priced from
$30—$200.

Shoes! by Cynthia
Rowley and British de-
signer Raffi will soon be
added to the collection.
Also, jewelry by Elizabeth
Wells and purses by Ply
complement the selection of
shoes with their delicate
details and hip, organic de-
signs.

Molly Gillbride Shoes
is located on Main Street

next to Pumpkinseeds and Send to
is open Tuesday through .
Saturday, 11:00 AM to 5:00 edwax-dse@w]u,edu,

PM.

Your A&L
Editor asks,
“What would
you like to
see in Life?”

Email your pithy
suggestions to

edwardsem@Wlu.edu

disclaimer: please do not

Q Earl Edwards, we love you, we are sorry you
get all of ourArts & Life Editor’s e-mails. Will you
please come fix our computers.

Q Yay! Lexington ﬁnaﬂy has a swank shoe store.
Why are we just getting one?

Q Congratulations to the football team for win-
ning the homecoming game 17-0.

Q There were nine married undergrad couples in
1979. There are none that we know of in 2004.

Q Prank Calls: Good Idea- some random ﬁeshman’s
dorm phone; Bad Idea- the posted sober driver’s
cell phone; Even Worse Idea- calling that sober
driver again 20 minutes later and asking for a ride.

Q Anybody else laugh when they saw that “west
beirut” was playing in the commons?

Q For all you hippies out there, Janis Jopin died
of a drug overdose on this day in 1970. I wonder if
she got her Mercedes-Benz.

Q I really like to shop. I wish Lexington had a
mall so I didn’t have to buy so many things over
the intemet.

Q Strategic planning is in full swing. I can’t wait
to see how the administration plans to further
distroy this place.

Q Don Pablo’s salsa is actually pretty good. Snaps
to the coop.

Q I like nice people.

Q McDonald’s is not open 24 hours a day. How
sad. i

Q It’s good to reﬂect. It’s also good to converge.
First you converge, then you reﬂect.

Q Irony of the week: College Republicans, known
for supporting the theory of small government, have
a President, an Executive Director, and a Chairman.

Q College Republicans beware, J eb Brooks is ac-
tually a mole for the Young Democrats.

Q Citing his recent conversioh, Jeb requested to be
removed from the Young Democrats’ e-mail list and is
upset that his liberal FRIENDS won’t allow him to be

true to himself. ~
Q The EC Room had the ugliest curtains in the
1980s. What a surprise.

Q One line Quick Hits are the hardest to write.

Q As usual, please e—mail your anonymous Quick
Hits to phi@wlu.edu. Please. It makes your Arts
& Life editor’s Sunday afternoon very enjoyable.

 

