'52-.755
K2552 *
V407
#16:)?

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 THE RINo.:rUM PHI.

BY THE

“77 P3
MONDAY,MAY2,2005 STUDENTS AND STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VOLUMECVHhNUMBEB26 ‘

 

-r.

FOR THE

WHAT’S INSIDE

Plea to the president

41 professors claim a glass ceiling
exists for faculty and administrators
at Washington & Lee; ask President
Burish to address the crisis.

Page3

lnducting the greats
Who made the 2005 Hall of Fame?
Check out page 2 for more details.

HOT TICKET

He’s coming... finally

The time’s ﬁnally here! And talk
about a hot ticket! Tickets are
deﬁnitely hard to come by, but if you
can, by some miracle, manage to go,
it promises to be a memorable
experience! Come hear Ralph Nader
in Lee Chapel at 7.30 p.m. on May 5
or get in on the live broadcast in the
Commons. Everyone is welcome
afterwards at the reception in the
Great Hall of the Science Center.

Get in on the scoop

You have another chance to cash in
on that free ice cream on the Cafe
77 patio from 3-5 p.m. on Wed.
May 4. Don’t miss it!

Sword play

Our very own W&L theater
department presents “Dreaming
and Duelling,” a ﬁlm starring our
students that will run in the
Commons theater at 8 p.m. on Fri.

_ May 6 and Sat. May 7, and at 7

p.m. on Sun. May 8. Call the
Lenfest box office for tickets.

Date-night on Daddy

Gender relations take the spotlight
this week, allowing us to swipe-
hope charges for dinner and a
movie! The perfect opportunity to
get to know someone better in a
non—frat-environment, and Daddy’s
paying! For more info, see page 5.

LOOKING BACK

This week is Holocaust _
Remembrance Week, and
W&L is hosting several
events to honor the victims of
such tragedy.

 

I The deeply moving
“Schindler’s List” will run in the
Commons theater on Mon. May 2 at
7:30 p.m., and on Tues. May 3,
Thurs. May 5 and Fri. May 6 at 9:30
p.m. Bring a box of Kleenex.

I If you can’t stomach
“Schindler’s List,” show up anytime
between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. in the
Commons atrium to sign a scroll for
one of the victims. You’ll receive a
photo and remembrance clip to honor
those who suffered.

I Holocaust survivor Elizabeth ,
Strassburger will speak about her V
experiences on Mon. May 2 from
5:30-6:30 p.m. in the Commons
theater.

I Laurel Leff will speak on her
book, Buried by ‘The Times’: The
Holocaust and America is Most
Important Newspaperon Thurs. May
5 at 4:30 p.m.

I A special Yom HaShoah service
will be held in the Alumni House on
Fri. May 6 at 5 p.m. Students of all
faiths may participate, the Rabbi will‘
speak, and a Holocaust survivor will
lead a prayer for the victims.

QUICK POLL

Q: Is Derby Days in need
of change?

 

50 students polled, 24 male, 26 female. Poll has 90%
confidence in a +/- 5% margin of error.

WLUR show hosts live bands

By Kate Shellnutt
STAFF WRITER

WLUR’s “House Mountain Radio”
brings the sounds of coffee shops, concert
halls and musical venues to your car, your
room, or. . .anywhere with a radio, really.
By broadcasting “live acoustic music from
your own backyard,” this new campus
radio show hooks local musicians up to
the airways from 7 to 7:30 every Tuesday
night. .
House Mountain Radio serves as
WLUR 91.5’s first show featuring only
live music. Senior Elizabeth Wilson,
former host of “Back Roads and Rainy
Days,” put the show together to provide a
“mountain stage” for her favorite
strumming and drumming artists.

Bluegrass band Rooster’s Ruckus started
off the show’s season, and the blues-jazz-
folk combination of Washington and Lee’s
Chris Kirnmel and Lexington’s Arum Rae
performed last week.

“I know how amazing the
Rockbridge music scene is, and I just
wanted to share it with everyone else,” said
Wilson, ready to feature Grammy-
nominated folk singer Mike Seeger on this
week’s show and artists such as Larry Keel
and W&L’s Jacob’s Ladder later in the
term. “I’ve had a great response to the
show, and that’s a good feeling.”

Although‘ Wilson knows of
Lexington listeners who have called and
visited the studio, she wants the show’s
audience to expand.

“I’m hoping [the show] is going to
bring in people who wouldn’t ordinarily

listen to college radio. Generally people
are scared of innovative or different music
that doesn’t get played on commercial
radio,” said Wilson, also the Public
Relations Manager for WLUR.

“People tell me they’ve made a
point to listen to it at City Steaks or as
they were driving into town... why isn’t
it playing in the Commons where people
eat? Why isn’t it the backdrop to the
campus TV station?”

The show has yet to schedule
featured artists for its last few weeks. To
offer or recommend a band, email
Elizabeth Wilson at wilsonec@wlu.edu.
More information, the station’s schedule
and archived House Mountain Radio
shows can be found on WLUR’s newly
launched website, wlur.wlu.edu, this
Wednesday.

Theater dept.

releases first
ever W&L ﬁlm

By Kate Shellnutt
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee is proud to
present its ﬁrst ever film Dreaming and
Dueling. The movie should prove to be
very exciting. There’s romance, drama,
swordfights — what more could you ask
for? '

It stars sophomore Michael
Wagoner, senior Sarah Orvin, junior Paige
Smith, senior John Bamwell, and new to
W&L theatre, first year law student Adam
West Lee.

The movie is adapted from the play
by Canadian playwright J on Lazarus of the
same name. It tells the tragic coming—of—
age story of a high schooler and his friend
who share a passion for fencing.

Joseph Maninez, chair of the theatre
department and world—renowned armed
and unarmed stage combat expert, directed
the film. One of his past students, Aaron
Anderson who is the fencing director of
VCU, choreographed the swordﬁghts.

Nicole Risey, the production
manager, said of the movie, “It’s been a
learning experience in all the aspects of
fi1m—making from acting to directing to
cinematography to sound.” -

These showtimes are the only’

opportunities to watch Dreaming and
Duelling. The movie will only be shown
three times, so don’t miss your chance.

By Erin Julius
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Two-time Presidential candidate

Ralph Nader will speak in Lee Chapel

this Thursday. Sponsored by

CONTACT, N ader’s talk will focus on

the “American duopoly,” or the two-

party i system, and American
capitalism.

Nader rose to prominence in

, 1965, when his book, “Unsafe at Any

Speed” attacked the auto industry’s

Nader speaks Thursday

OFF|C|AL-JOHN-NIKOLAI.COM

disregard for its customers’ safety. He
is also responsible for motor vehicle
safety laws, the Safe Drinking Water
Act, the launch of the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration and
the Environmental Protection Agency.

Most recently, Nader organized
the Green Party’s first presidential
campaign in 1996, when he won
700,000 votes. When he ran again in
2000, he received 2.8 million votes.

TIME Magazine called Nader
the “U.S.’s toughest customer.”

Buffalo
Creek

GAB spearheads
event this year

By Sarah Murray
STAFF WRITER

Despite last year’s fears of

Festival will return to Lexington in two
weeks under the stewardship of the
General‘ Activities Board.

The event’s promoters have
worked to ensure that the traditional
festival adapts with the times while
retaining its low-key atmosphere.

Though the spirit of the festival
is the same, some changes have been
made so that the event conforms to
GAB rules. Security will check tickets
and lD’s at the front gate and issue
wristbands.

Festival—goers who are over 21
years old may bring as much alcohol
as they can carry, but may not bring it
inside Zollman’s Pavilion. In an
attempt to regulate drinking, security
will not allow kegs past the gate.

To ensure studentrsafety, the
festival’s producers are providing sober
rides as well as free drinking water.
Smokin’ Jirn’s B—B-Q will be on-site
to cater the event.

Tea Leaf Green, an alternative
rock group, is headlining this year’s
lineup. The Boston Globe recently
reported that “devilishly fast guitar
solos, jazzily lurching keyboards, and
a funkified, happy—go-lucky image”
characterize the San Francisco—based
band.

“For the most part the bands are
on the smaller side like they have been
in years past, but for those that enjoy
live music they should be entertaining,”
festival producer Cameron Wick said.

The festival will take place on
May 13 and 14.

Tickets ($10) and merchandise
will be available next week in front of
the Commons; all purchases may be
swiped home.

3 Sharing faith brings fellowship to W&L and VMI

VMI Chapel, GCF, Young Life encourage students from two schools to interact

By Stephanie Wiechmann
S TA F F W R i T E R

Two small stone pillars with brass
plaques stand on both sides of Letcher
Avenue to mark off the split between the
properties of Washington and Lee
University and Virginia Military Institute.
This is “Limit’s Gate.” This, for years,
also marked the spot that the two bodies
of students stopped, one on each side of
the line.

“Limit’s Gate is where cadets
stopped and where W&L [students] didn’t
enter,” said VMI chaplain James Park.
“When cadets go outside the gate, there is
a feeling they are on some sort of privilege
to be off campus.”

But, now, Sundays are an exception.
On Sunday mornings, amid the mass of
gray and black cadet uniforms in Jackson
Memorial Hall during VMI chapel
services, W&L students can be seen.
They’re not hard to spot — they’re wearing
the “civilian clothing.” The very same
night, those gray and black uniforms are
the minority —— a few hundred yards away.
They appear on the campus next door, at a

~ student-led fellowship group, amonga sea

of W&L students.

VMI cadets and W&L students have
been using their .belief in a higher power
to come together to worship as one. “Faith
is the common ground that has begun
bridging the gap,” said Park.

W&L acting chaplain Burr Datz
agrees. He believes there are two aspects
of a religious life. “We gather in worship,
community, faith, and then we are sent out
to heal the world,” he said.

Some VMI cadets and W&L

students have set out to do that together.

The two campuses have been
stereotyped and compared throughout
history, and those preconceived notions
usually lead to tense or no interaction
between the two schools.

Datz, a 1975 graduate of W&L,
explains that the two bodies of students
share more than they think — things like
home sickness, exam periods, and
hometown relationships that sometimes
disintegrate over time. “What is common
[with college life] is immense,” he said.
“What is different gets a lot more
attention.”

Robin Davis, a W&L sophomore,
sees these stereotypes as misleading. “I
can honestly say that I found some of my
closest friends in college through church
activities with [cadets],” she said. “At
first, it felt like a violation of one of the
greatest social taboos of W&L —
interacting with VMI. What most people

don’t realize is that the majority of cadets .

are amazing young men that no one
bothers to get to know because their

-lifestyle is so different from ours. . .. Most
cadets will tell you that they are thrilled

when someone wants to find out what
VMI is actually all about instead of
listening to rumors.” .

“Fellowship is a crucial part 0
Christian life and is deﬁnitely beneﬁcial
with W&L students,” said Jeff Dudas, a
VMI third classman. “Being able to share
this experience with W&L students is
awesome especially since the relationship
with VMI and W&L hasn’t always been
in the positive spotlight.”

During the 2003 school year,
W&L’s Religious Life Committee did a

study on religious life on the campus. The
study found that about 50 percent of
students “considered themselves
‘religious’ or “spiritual.” Over 40 percent
of students “considered themselves
‘committed to a faith tradition.”

On one of the survey’s open-ended
questions, the committee asked for
suggestions on how to improve religious
life on W&L’s campus. All the responses
were anonymous, so students were free to
write what they felt.

One student hit on the idea of cross-
campus fellowship. The student wrote,
“Due to the close proximity of our campus
to that of VMI, it seems that W&L
(students especially) would beneﬁt from
interaction with cadets that could be
organized between the two schools.”

What this student didn’t know is
that religious interaction between the two
campuses had grown immensely from
what it had been in the past.

When Datz was a student at W&L,
he said that there was no interaction. “The
cadets used to parade down on Sunday to
religious services in town,” he said.

In the l970’s, religious services
were mandatory for VMI cadets. During
one of these marches, a legend was born.

“The cadets were marching down
the street or on the sidewalk, on the way
to mass at St. Pat’s,” Chaplain Park said.
They marched by Red Square as some
W&L fraternity members were awake —

. the specific frat has been conveniently

forgotten. The frat members started
“chucking beer cans and beer bottles” at
the cadets, said Park.

“The platoon leader stopped the
formation,” said Park, “called an about

face towards the fraternity, then yelled
‘Charge!’"

The cadets rushed the fraternity.
“There was a brawl inside,” said Park.
Who was triumphant has also been
conveniently forgotten. The cadets soon
came out, returned to formation, and
marched to church.

-Today, things have calmed down
between the two schools. Now, students
areventuring onto each other’s campuses
for new experiences in worship and
fellowship.

According to Park, VMI chapel is
attended by 20 to 25 W&L students each
Sunday. “Washington and Lee students
bring some freedom to our worship
service,” he said. “It’s kind of hard to be
free when you’re wearing a uniform....
Their momentum and excitement is
encouraging to the cadets.”

Park said that at first, the campus
lines were drawn even in Jackson
Memorial Hall. “W&L kids sit on one side
[of the aisle] and cadets sit on the other,”
he said. He is now seeing the students
“crossing the aisle.”

“I attend VMI chapel because it is
the style of worship that I enjoy the most
of thechurches I have visited in the
Lexington area,” said W&L freshman
Jenny Sproul, “and I believe God is
speaking through Chap. I enjoy hearing
[the cadets] speak so openly. . . about what
God is doing in their lives and how he’s
shown them when they screw up.”

On W&L’s campus, cadets frequent

“many programs, including General’s

Christian Fellowship and Young Life.

See RELIGION on page 5

 

returns 

cancellation, the Buffalo Creek Music »

 
 
 

2 - THE RING-TUM PHI . § ' MONDAYLMAY2.2005 '

 

 

1 V
.7
THISWEEK     TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALLGAME
Tl-l.BSDAY,MAY5 g ‘
-Track at Liberty; 4:00 _ , , t.
....,..,,..,....7 showing at ODAC s
-Men’s Tennis at NCAA’s TBA b b'1 t . th 1 1 f
i , , By Sarah Bioom een a e 0 experience e eve o _
-Women S Tenms NCAA S TBA semen sponrs wnmsn success that we did,” said Goodrich. 7
For ODAC competition, the team is
Su‘DAY’MAY8 Four competitors ind the required to provide its own horses,
-Menis Tenms at NCAA’s TBA Washington and Lee University riding Whieh is different from most shows
' -Women’s Tennis NCAA’s TBA team to a close second place ﬁnish two Where horses are ProVided for ~y
Irriack at Duke . A weeks ago at the ODAC Championships Compeiitors ii)’ the host school
at Hniiins University We had a lot of support and
S P O R T S B R I E F S Caitlin Lane, Nina cooiidge, Katic that made it riioreexciting to do as‘well
oodiicni ed u with senior Me an as we did, said Goodrich, The
G eam p g
‘ tennis team and several ‘gt
w&Lss at Brooks to represent the Generals, who fell Women s
just two points short of first-place house mothers Came to support use and
  . Rand01nh_Mac0n woinen’s c011ege_ it was nice to have a home town crowd
Wasl““gt°“ and Lee Sent“ Nathan Bridgewater and Hollins tied for third, since we don’t usually have General
Johnson (Lexington, Va./Rockbridge trailing the Generals by Seven points‘ fans in the Crowd”
County) competed at the Penn Relays Riders each Competed in two Lane and innioi Naiaiia ‘V
on Thursday eVening in Philadelphia: iinnning rounds and Onc “under Saddle” Maxwell will continue to train and
Pa‘ round. In 'um in rounds riders are represent the Generals in May at the
Jpg ’ Itll'tNt"al'Sb
, judged on their technique over a series of n ereo egia e 3 ion s in ‘in in)’,
vv&LMen5La:r°sseFallst° fences while the under saddle round 0lll0- This national Competition
Lynchburg,106, in ODAC Semis highlights the rider’s ability to control and retluires riders to meet seVeral diriieult
(4/25) communicate with the horse while requirements throughout the seasonin
Third-seeded Lynchburg scored four maintaining composure. order to tlualifY- .
goals in the first and third quarters en As a team, the Generals were Lane end Maxwell will each
route to a   Over SeCond_ awarded sgcond place in the  Sh0W Wlthln COII1pCtltlOI1 lCVClS Vi
seeded Washington and Lee in the rounds and first in the undersaddle round. assigned bY_ the rider’s experlenee
ODAC men’s lacrosse tomnmnent Lane and Goodrich each placed in Cm’. top MaXWCll Wlll C0II1I.>ete in only the
semiﬁnals on Tuesday afternoon at 1 ﬁve individual positions in each of the under Saddle e0mpet1t1on,wh1le Lane
Wilson Fie1d_ classes, or competition rounds. The duo Will Compete in both 3 Jumping and STEVEN MARINOS/STAFF PHOTOGRA
also earned First-Teain All—Conference under saddle found» _ _ ‘=7
w&Lwomen’s|_xro$eEdges honors for excellence in competition for This W111 be 1-an€’S  time ZaohBausohandTay|or McConnell hit backtobackhomerunsina losingeﬁort
 !5&MoDAc the third year In a row. representing the Generals at nationals againstWestWginiaTed1mWednesday.ﬂ1eGeriaalsﬁnisredﬂ1eirseasmm
“Without people willing to lend us
TIﬂe(4I24)
horses to compete on, we wouldn’t have

Top-seeded Washington and Lee
overcame a 5-2 deﬁcit late in the

second half to post a 6-5 win over 2  5 H  

third-seeded Randolph-Macon in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference

Championship game. For the 12th-  
ranked Generals, it was their third

COI1SCClltlVC COl'1f6I‘CIlCC CI‘OWI1.   n C e d

W&LWomen’sTemIsWns sports Release ,

 SPORTS INFORMATION

The Washington and Lee women’s

tennis team won its 14th ODAC Washington and Lee University has ,
Championship in the last 15 years by announced the 18th class to be inducted
taking all six singles ﬂights and all into its Athletic Hall of Fame. The class
three doubles ﬂights in the three—day includes William Seaton ’36, Junie Bishop
tournament hosted by Hollins ’41, Jim Fahey ’50, Harry Broadbent, Don
University. Eavenson ’73, John Embree ’75, Dave

Leunig ’80 and Angie Carrington Murphy
’94. All eight will be recognized at the
Athletic Hall of Fame dinner on Fri., Sept.
9 and at the Generals’ football game
against Alfred University on Sat., Sept. 10.
However, Seaton, Bishop, Fahey and
Broadbent will be officially inducted
among their peers at the University’s Five-
Star General Dinner on Fri., Sept. 23.
William Seaton ’36 competed in
baseball, boxing and track, but most
notably was a four—year letterwinner for
the football team. Seaton quaiterbacked
the Generals to a Southern Conference and
State Championship in 1934 and was
named an Honorable Mention All-
America following his senior campaign.
Junie Bishop ’41 was an
outstanding running back for the football
teams of 1937-49. He was named to the

   

SevenW&LWomen’sLacmsse freshmjan A1ii—a:tate5tt(:)atn in 1937. d
Pia!  Ta.“ lm Cy was 3 tI'Cl'I16I1 OUS
,. (428) C three—sport athlete for the Generals,

lettering for the football, baseball and
basketball teams. Fahey was the first post-
WWH athlete to be awarded three varsity
monograms and he was tabbed the
school’s senior athlete of the year by the
Ring 'I‘urn Phi.

Harry Broadbent served as the head
wrestling coach at Washington and Lee
from 1946-49, compiling a record of 29-
5. He led the Generals to Southern
Conference Championships in 1948‘and

Three-time defending ODAC
women’s lacrosse champion
Washington and Lee had seven
players named to the All-Old
Dominion Athletic Conference team.
Additionally, senior midﬁelder
Kristen Brown (Baltimore, Md./
Catonsville) was named the Player of
the Year, while head coach Jan
Hathom earned Coach of the Year

honors. 1949'
Don Eavenson ’73 lettered for both
W&LGo|fCIaimsTwoA|lODAC the football and lacrosse teams at W&L.
 In football, Eavenson was elected team '
Washington and Lee freshman captain as a senior, eaming All-College
N ath am 61 Jamés (Keller, T ex a S /Kane 1,) Athletic Conference accolades as a guard.
and senior Ged Johnson (Darien, J,°hn Embree 75 was_ a four—year
Conn./raft School) have been named letterwinner for both the tennis and soccer
to the Aii_Oid Dominion Athietic teams at W&L. He earned Second Team _
All-State accolades in soccer following his

Conference golf team. . . . :  '  i i _ = 2 § - § -  - ‘  '
_]llI1lOI' season when he led the team in  ' ' i ' ' ' ~ ' ' ~ .

1  sen  meieeesileeeseteet  T   
-  games tteanstjaii at equal? er lenses statue WE _.

three-tiine Team MVP.

  Dave Leunig ’80 was a four—year    --  _
\ letterwinner for both the basketball d W °' ;;  ;
   golf teams, serving as a team captairiuin  in __ E

golf as a senior.  

Angie Carrington Murphy ’94 was I l _   .. . ' .5 V

57?aI7IU/el0@VV/U-ed! Z.»§;‘f{¥§?£§f£§Z2”$§’.f§nZ"E.Z”§§.§‘§‘n‘§  _  it -» « V ‘ 

2
.
5.
=5
3-
i

SOCCCI teams.

 

.1’

. At parties, beer

_ Yes, everything is green and pretty
- now. But here’s what I hate- One’s

~ live here “all year.” They don’t have
I to be here when everything is DEAD

 

 ZﬂF
I

IDIII

IIJIIS

 

THERNG-TUMPHIO3

STAFF EDITORIAL

needs to be in a can

Times have changed at
Washington and Lee, and nowhere is
this more evident that at your average
frat party.

This year, fraternities have been
required to provide wristbands to those‘
who are of age, security roams around
more frequently, and the names of sober
officers and sober drivers are posted.
All of these changes were made in the
name of safety. We are concerned,
however, that there is one danger still
being overlooked.

Time after time, bartenders at
parties will take a can of beer, open it,
and pour it into a plastic cup.

Any list of “safety tips” for
women drinking at parties emphasizes
one rule: when you drink, it’s best if you
take only unopened bottles or cans,
because it is too easy to slip drugs into
an open container.

With all of the sexual assault
awareness this year, it is surprising that
this fact has not been discussed.

Since Washington and Lee’s rate
of “sexual touching against their will” is
twice that of colleges nationally,
according to the health survey released
this past fall, we are clearly a
community that needs to take every
possible precautionlwhen it comes to
women’s safety at parties.

Date—rape drugs are colorless and
odorless, so they present an especially
insidious danger that we should all make
ourselves aware of.

No one is to blame for overlooking
the dangers of open containers, but from
now on we think bar-tenders (and party-
goers) should keep this in mind.

Just passing out the beer in cans is:
one of the simplest ways to help ensure
safety at our fraternity parties.

UPS & DOWN

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson takes
a break from the Spring Tenn high life
long enough to hand down the rise and
fall of a whole lot of stuﬂ’.

O Aprilshowers
All I’ve got to say is, there better be a
whole heck of a lot of May ﬂowers.

0 Baseball Underdogs

The Orioles and White Sox lead their
DIVISIONS, and the Nationals and
Diamondbacks are on their respective
leaders’ tails.

Giape May, New Jersey

Since the ‘60s, this town has banned
speedos. This week, they legalized
them. I would really like to
understand what motivated them.

0 “Hitchhiker’s Guide”
Skip it, read the book instead. (Insert
hilarious “42” reference here)

0 Laura Bush

Bipartisan hilarity at White House
Correspondents’ Dimer. (See quote
of the week). Best part- she writes her
own material.

ONorth Korea

Still conducting missile tests. You
know, just to remind Japan that at any A
time, they could get nuked AGAIN.

0 Retro

Here’s my prediction: next year,
during the summer, the macarena will
return in the guise of ironic kitsch.

Ochessboxing

www.wcbo.org Play four minutes of
chess, ﬁght a three-minute round of
boxing. Continue your chess game for
four minutes, then another boxing
round. First one to KO or checlcmate

the opponent wins. I have found my
calling in life.

Qcampus beautiﬁcation

parents visit at either the beginning or
the end of the year. They rave about
how pretty it is and how they’d like to

AND GRAY! Maybe it’s just me.

Profs point to glass ceiling in W&L administration

To President Burish, the Board of
Trustees, and Members of the University
Community: ,

We. the undersigned faculty
members of Washington and Lee
University hereby express concern about
the management of this university.
Washington and Lee explicitly adopted a
policy in the year 2000 that committed us
to recruiting and retaining a more diverse
range of students, faculty, and
administrators. We wish to point out that,
although recent successes in student
admissions and in faculty hiring have
begun to enrich this environment for all
of us, a glass ceiling remains. The
administration has not adhered to the
“Statement on Diversity” adopted by the
Board; if it does not change direction soon,
all these gains, and our very integrity, are
in danger.

Certain recent decisions indicate to
many of us that women’s contributions to
Washington and Lee are undervalued. We
applaud the substantial diversity now
among administrators and staff in Student
Life. It is also true that women now chair
some undergraduate departments,
programs, and committees, increasing
their authority and inﬂuence. However,
in the academic core of this university, far
too few women have ascended to the
highest posts. The current administration
did not create these problems, but they
have not yet demonstrated a commitment
to correcting them. We are frustrated at
this lack of progress, despite yearly
meetings between the senior
administration and the Women
Administrators and Faculty Group asking
for attention to gender inequities in hiring,
policies, benefits, and salary. President
Burish writes in his vision statement,
“How can we achieve sufﬁcient diversity
in faculty, students, and staff so that all
members of the University can participate
in the liberating and transforming
exposure to values, experiences, and
assumptions of people unlike
themselves?” It is striking to us that
“administration” was left off that list.

In particular, we suggest that the
rejection of Interim Dean Jeanine
Stewart’s candidacy for the position of
Dean of the College violates the policy on
diversity and damages our community. We
fully intend to welcome and support the
new Dean, Howard Dobin; we also note
that he will be our only Jewish senior
administrator, and as recent anti—Semitic
incidents on campus remind us, we sorely
need such leadership. However, this gain
should not have cost us the only woman
who has ever held a senior position in

academic administration at Washington
and Lee. In fact, President Burish and
Provost Williams have put a good
candidate in a difficult position. As
someone hired for a job that a well-
qualiﬁed woman could have continued to
ﬁll, Hank Dobin will inevitably symbolize
administrative resistance to maintaining
women in positions of significant
inﬂuence. His appointment bypasses the
candidacy of Jeanine Stewart, who has
» more experience at this level of
administration and with liberal arts
institutions. Dean Stewart has also served
with tremendous approval from the faculty
even in this time of diminished resources.
She achieved this support despite a
proliferation of vice presidents
undercutting the executive power of the
Dean of the College. Is it a coincidence
that when a woman ﬁnally ascends to this
role, changes in the institutional hierarchy
radically diminish the authority of that
position?
' Women have worked as associate
deans in all three sectors of the university,
and granted, in the law school this role
has more power and prestige than on the
undergraduate campus. Nevertheless, the
scarcity of women at the top of the
hierarchy impoverishes us. Moreover,
female candidates at Dean Stewart’s level
and with her extraordinary administrative
gifts are difﬁcult to recruit. We fear that,

through this decision, we have lost an.

opportunity that may not recur for a very
long time. In the meantime, how can we
encourage our women students to serve
as leaders, when Washington and Lee
University cannot yet tolerate women in
its highest ranks?

This is not an isolated incident.
Among 33 members of the Board of
Trustees, only 3 are women. No woman
has ever held an endowed chair at the Law
School, much less ;the_ pos_ition_ of Dean,
and only’ 22% of  ipriofeissors ithere are
women. No woman has ever held the
prestigious Directorship of the Frances
Lewis Law Center, nor chaired the
Appointments Committee. In the Wdﬁarns
School and the College, women hold only
2 out of 31 endowed chairs, and only
15.8% of full professors are women.
These numbers are signiﬁcantly below the
average cited by the Chronicle of Higher
Education: in 2001, the average number
of female full professors nationwide at
baccalaureate—granting institutions was
22.5%. Some cite our relatively recent
date of coeducation as justification for
these poor numbers, but 2005 marks the
(unheralded) 20"‘ anniversary of the
admission of women to undergraduate life.

————~— WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSI'l'Y -

THE RING -TUM PHI.

HEDITOR.-IN—CHlEF

MANAGING EDITOR
ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. UFEEDIIOR

PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITOR

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

(XDPY EDITORS

7heF?hg-umH1isptbisI1edMaxiaysdimgtretndag1aduatesdndyear
atWmh'ngtonandLeeUriversity, Lex'ngton,\firy'I'a
TheFIhg-atnPh'samerrberofTl'eNIedaBoard,wtid1<2nbetea3I1edat
medeboard@vwtt.em,butksdt1er\Msei'deper1derit
7haFﬁig-tzmPhivveIoomesal
Allstbmssionsmustbeen‘eIedtopIi@Mu.eduorhmeUriversityCentermaboxby5p.m.
Fridaytoappearhttiefolcmhginreeksedtiori.
77neFlhg-umF7ireseNesmengntoedtstbn1$kxsforoontemaruIengI'1.
Lettersartdoolumrsdonotrieoessarityretieettheopirioriof TheF§1g4rmPhiEdtoria|Board.
Advertisingdoesnotretiedtheopinionsof TheFIhg—umPhiorilsstaﬂ.
ltisrievvsrneperobserveswnaatooundeﬁriﬁorsofbelaridobsoeriﬂy.

TheFﬁ1g-tunPh'
UrivetsiyCornmnsRoorn.341
Washirgrx1ar1dLeeUriversity

Lex'ngtnn,Vrg'1‘a24450
Telephone: (540)45840&)
Fax (540)4584059
Emaitph'@wtu.edu
Stbsefption rate$40

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS

MARSHALL RULE
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON
ANNE FINLEY
BREE MELTON
STEVEN MARINOS
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
VANESSA ARNESS
SARAH MURRAY

Two decades represent an ample length of
time for hiring women at various levels
and fostering their success, yet we have
not done so at appropriate levels. These
statistics demoralize many of us.
Combined with recent crises, they
compromise our conﬁdence in the current
administration. This climate’ also
engenders fear among many faculty
members, especially untenured professors,
of speaking their minds openly.

We need women in high places at
Washington and Lee. r We need them
because they are talented and dedicated
teachers, scholars, artists, and
administrators. We need them as evidence
to our students, male and female, that
women can achieve success, authority, and
power. We need them to keep insisting,
as Jeanine Stewart has always done, that
we live up to our professed values in all
areas of university life—not least by
considering diversity in hiring and
admissions and by promoting open
conversation through a range of courses,
programs, and policies.

Many initiatives could improve
the climate at Washington and Lee, and
not only for women:

We ought to consider hiring
minority and women professors at senior
as well as junior levels and creating new
endowed chairs to attract them.

We need ,a better balance of
conﬁdentiality and transparency in matters
of faculty salary. For instance, we are
asked simply to trust, without data, that
gender bias in salary has been eliminated.
President Burish writes in his letter to the
faculty of April 28"‘ that we “need a data-
driven procedure for addressing salary
equity.” In fact, objective oversight is
more important to many of us.

We are wary of the president’s
proposal in the same letter to create “a new
senior administrative position to focus on
important faculty issues.” Women “need
to be admitted to the existing power
structure; a position invented just for a
woman to ﬁll does not serve anyone’s
interests.

Most fundamentally, we must
recognize and reward the
accomplishments of the women among us,
even if (and because) their contributions
may look different from those we have
formerly valued. No one _at any level
should be permitted to decide that he‘ or
she cannot or will not work with an entire
class of people.

We ask President Burish and the
Board to show leadership immediately and
address this crisis. The marginalization of

women on this campus is anachronistic;
it is bad for business in a time of
signiﬁcant institutional change; and it is
contrary to the values we profess. We have
passed the resolution: now we need
positive action and a system of
accountability.

Elizabeth Knapp, Associate Professor of
Geology, Department Head

Ellen Mayock, Associate Professor of
Romance Languages, Associate Dean of the
College

Domnica Radulescu, Professor of
Romance Languages

Lesley Wheeler, Associate Professor of
English, Head of the Women’s Studies Program

Anna Brodsky, Associate Professor of
Russian, Head of Russian Studies

Alexandra Brown, Professor of Religion

Darryl Brown, Professor of Law

Kevin Crotty, Professor of Classics

Ted DeLaney, Associate Professor of
History »

Elisa DiCaprio, Visiting Assistant

Professor of History

David G. Elmes, Professor of
Psychology

Dennis Garvis, Associate Professor of
Management

Louise Halper, Professor of Law

Margaret Howard, Professor of Law

Suzanne Keen, Professor of English

John Lambeth, Associate Professor of
Romance Languages

Robin LeBlanc, Associate Professor of
Politics

Tim Lubin, Associate Professor of

Religion

Nancy Margand, Professor of
Psychology

Elizabeth Oliver, Professor of
Accounting

Bob Stewart, Associate Professor of
Psychology

Twenty additional faculty members
asked to endorse this letter anonymously:

Jane Doe, Associate Professor

Jane Doe, Asst. Professor in the College
Jane Doe, Asst. Professor in the College
Jane Doe, Asst. Professor in the College
Jane Doe, Asst. Professor in the College

John Doe, Asst. Professor in the College '

John Doe, Asst. Professor in the College
Jane Doe, Assistant Professor
Jane Doe, Assistant Professor
Jane Doe, Assistant Professor
Jane Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
John Doe, Assistant Professor
Jane Doe

John Doe

John Doe

John Doe

How I learned to quit
worrying and love Spring Term

Bycarissasnpiey

NTHEFKIS

Spring Term is ﬁnally here! While
I'm not much of a partier, I know enough
to be sure that there is no better time for
fun on campus than spring term. I
encourage everyone to do the following
things before they go home for summer.

1) Relax outside. While studying
outside can be a little distracting, there is
no reason not to spend some time enjoying
the weather.

Even though it has been cold and
rainy lately, there will be lots of
opportunities to grab a book, journal, or
iPod and some sunscreen and head
outside. Find a piece of grass (1
recommend the front lawn or the park next
to Waddell Elementary School) and take
an hour or two to sleep or just enjoy some
time away from schoolwork.

2) While I’m on the subject of
enjoying the outdoors, how about
grabbing some friends for a game of
Frisbee, a bike ride, or a hike?

The cross country trails behind the
ruins are a great place to get a litﬂe exercise
or have a picnic by the river.

Or, rent some tennis racquets and
catch a couple quick games after class.

3) Find a lawn party.

My favorite parties of the year, the
lawn party is a cross between the fun of a
Friday night in a frat basement and a
country club atmosphere.

Get a drink of choice and ﬁnd a
rocker on the front porch. Then head to
the s1ip—n-slide or a game of Frisbee.

V Enjoy the lack of crowded, loud
areas to talk to srat sisters or frat brothers
or meet someone new. ‘

4) Take in a sporting event. No more
bundling up or huddling under umbrellas
while counting the minutes until some hot
chocolate or a warm blanket.

Support the Generals‘ in the sport of
your choice and in the warm rays of the
sun.

5) Find a gift for mothers day or
treat yourself to some farm-fresh food at
the farmers market.

While there aren’t always a lot of
vendors, its worth a quick stop in the
parking lot behind the Southern Inn on
Wednesday morning.

6) Take a break from sorority or
fraternity food to grab some lunch at one

’ of the cafes. Some offer outdoor seating

but each offers a chance to get off campus
and take some time for yourself or to catch
up with friends.

Honor Forum appears on
  Page 4 this week

 

  

AﬂH 

“If you really want to end tyranny in the world,

you ’re going to haveto stay up later.”

— QUOTEOFTHEWEEKLanmsda,waagmrimmmabwthbeawuedmema&mmrwhmHaseuess

conwponzhls

|VU‘DAY,MAFﬂ'l5,ZI5

U.S. could beneﬁt from drug policy reconsideration

ByBeckyLeMo'neV

Tl-EIJEHALVEW

Attention everyone! I know this
may come as a shock to you, but I feel
that it is my duty to report it:

There are students at W&L who use
illegal drugs.

Yes, shocking, but true. In fact, it
seems that all over the country there are
people using illegal drugs.

So, here is the most shocking
assertion yet (especially coming from a
liberal):

The US. should
reconsider its drug policy.

From a philosophical standpoint,
the reason why drugs are outlawed in the
first place is because the government feels
it has a duty to protect the public from
harm. Yet, this assumed duty is in direct
contention with individual liberty.

If we agree with John Stuart Mill’s
Harm Principle, which states that “the only
purpose for which power can be rightfully
exercised over any member of a civilised

seriously

  

eﬁtgeaggaoa
~Nw_°_,,,..-w-*~""' ”*-.,.

\>
\ ’.

 §_._§i%§{3E‘§§€E’

ﬁeaiatearrr
iexiagran is
Sweetheart Strap

/‘9‘°”‘"°3:>. //J’5°°~
'-3: »'

      

  

21 "W. Nelsen St.
ze»§3-é5%3
Mon. ~ Eiri its-§:3§
Sat lt.’i~5

“sensper not save reef”

      
     
  
 
     
   
  
    
    

    
  

  

  
 

llli: "ll .
ills. 
"7 : '

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Rapbine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 0 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects: Mail order and
Internet accessibility made easy.

Caﬂforworlrshop&chssinfoimatIon.

Halfway between lexington and Staunton
On I-81 /I-64 at exit 205. Raphine. 4nu'1e: west on
Route 606. Raphine RM /M/rr/M a working
farm that oﬁers "U-PICK” opportunities for fmh
fun‘! when in season.

Tires - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
m. 

community, against his will, is to prevent
harm to others,” then we are compelled to
decide whether the use of drugs harms
only the user or if it inﬂicts harm on others
as well.

Yes, there are instances in which the
abuse of drugs can interfere with a
person’s ability to function and to thereby
contribute effectively to society.

However, I do not feel that ‘we can
justifiably apply this to every case. It
would be unjust to condemn the use of a
drug simply because some people choose

' to abuse it; this restricts the liberty of the

individual who responsibly uses a drug.
For example, if a man chooses to
smoke marijuana in the privacy of his own
home one night a week, when he has no
obligations to fulfill towards any other
individual, can we truly assert that his
action is inﬂicting harm on another?
Opponents will argue that by using
drugs, the man is physically harming
himself and that, in the long—run, he will
not be able to effectively contribute to
society, and may even become a burden

3'

      

. -' : 3' i’.

 

 

 

 

me?
you and. is.

greater

counsellors

(jnqunliczs,

 

~»$aaday‘ WM iitizicitee 8: . - -
 as: T? T18 

 

 Cooikasi Mania 1%‘ 
 24$ Roars at my,   e 

Lncaiterl at .


 

on the state.

However, how many people
become burdens even with drugs
outlawed? The current “war on drugs” has
not deterred people from using drugs.
Instead, the war on drugs has induced
many other “evils” into society.

In a system where drugs were legal,
our money, time, and energy could be
spent to educate about the harmful effects
of drugs and to protect consumers from
the misuse of drugs.

. This would bring about a multitude
of other beneﬁts for society, and could
possibly reduce the negative effects that
drug use may have on society, when used
improperly by certain individuals.

Today, federal and state
governments spend between $40 and $60
billion per year to fight the war on drugs,
about ten times the amount spent in 1980.
Our prison population has even increased
by 400 percent since 1980, while the
general population has increased just 20
percent.

Yet, despite all of these efforts, the

  
 
 

 
    

.: toatczsmw-,sa

illicit drug trade is thriving, with drugs
becoming cheaper and more available.

In addition, annual surveys of high
school students indicate that heroin and
marijuana are as available today as they
were in 1975. The fact is that the “war on
drugs” has been highly inefficient, costly,
and futile.

Conversely, if drugs were legalized,
the negative effects of the war on drugs
would be reversed. Since consumers
would be able to obtain drugs from within
the U.S., the prices would decrease and
so would drug-related motivations to
commit crime, as consumers would no
longer rely on stealing to support their
habits.

In addition, the legalization of drugs
in the U.S. could greatly diminish the sale
of drugs in the U.S. from markets that are
financially supporting terrorist operations.
As it stands now, the United Nations
Office for Drug Control and Crime
Prevention believes that up to 65 percent
of Afghan opiates are entering the Western
market through central Asian republics.

If retail markets in the U.S. opened
up, more Western consumers would
purchase drugs from within the country
rather than outside the country because
drugs would be cheaper and easier to
obtain from the U.S. markets.

There are numerous other beneﬁts
from the legalization of drugs, including:
halting the spread of AIDS and other
diseases by eliminating the motivation to
restrict the sale of hypodermic needles,
reducing the over-sized prison population,
clearing up the courts, and saving tax
dollars spent on unsuccessful programs
and initiatives to halt drug trafficking.

Thus, while some may consider
drug use a moral wrong, is it really a liberty
that we can justly restrict through leg
means? -

And, if we do continue to restrict
this liberty, are we really doing so for the
beneﬁt of society? I think that before we
continue to shut the door on ever
legalizing drugs, we should consider what
is at stake here: individual liberty and the
common good.

 

survunszn C331? 3058

Ian-olzizrmgﬁ-zxrtl-uabest stxxrnrrtexcsfymar
Easter Seals Virg-irwla can he-3p
we are cotuunitmed. on
helping people with  gain
ind-ependennzae.
dedicated {earn this srununer at Camp
Easter $3315 ‘Virginia. in Craig t'Jou11ty'.
Vlfauc have job  for camp
and program
horsahadk riding," music,
manna, sports IIE1 maria).
board and salary’ jprattridnci.
infoxrnattinet. cacvsact Debarah Duet}: at
dduerka@w=a.e<a.afteraeaIs.ca~rn at at
(540) :86-G~6.'i'50. Visit our we-baite to
learn ham: jrcau can nmke a. etiﬁerexwe.
vvww...~va.eaaeex:se<a1et.c.otxrx

join our

lenders

Roanrt,
For

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 Nova areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
wvvw.premier41 1 .com
1 877 SEE POOL

Warning

If you are under 30 or othen/vise suffer
from severe Mass Media Syndrome
DO NOT read
Bob Fusse||’s (W&L class of ‘64)

MY GREAT LIFE

www.mygreatIife.net

without approval of your mental health provider

,4

NY}

 

V

 

  

MONDAY, MAYZZX5

artsalife

 

THERING-TUMPHI 0 5

 

Dinnerand a
movie on Daddy

ByBreeMeIm
A$T.L|FEE3fTU?

Dating is back, or at least the
Gender Relations Committee is trying to
bring it back.

You had better keep May 12 open
because next Thursday, you can paint the
town on daddy’s dime. This week the
GRC is setting up in the Commons to sell
vouchers to select Lexington restaurants
and Hull’s Drive-In theatre.

The vouchers can be purchased by
check or cash or by. swiping it home, and
I’m sure your parents would support a
nice, healthy date (or a better dinner than
d—hall!). I

The vouchers come in
denominations of 5, 10, and 20, so there
will be a variety of price ranges to choose
from depending on what kind of date you
would like. You can get dinner at a nice
restaurant and then drive over to Hull’s
for a fun romantic comedy.

The GRC has four
subcommittees each seeking a different
way to promote positive gender
interactions.

The proposed date night is only one

such option, so the campus can look
forward to other activities in the future.
So many people keep friends of the
opposite sex when they are freshmen, it
seems strange that those friendships should
fall apart after the first year. Perhaps it is
because it’s far easier to maintain those
friendships when we all live together in
the freshmen dorms.

Regardless of what the cause is, the
GRC is’ hoping to encourage the
cultivation and preservation of
relationships between men and women.

It’s often difficult to meet people at
fraternity parties and develop a
relationship‘ from a one night thing filled
with loud music and alcohol. The GRC
wants to provide other situations in which
men and women can interact in order to
normalize gender relations.

So gentlemen, call up that cute girl
from economics class and invite, her to
dinner and a movie.

Ladies, don’t be afraid to shoot an
e-mail to that cute boy you met in the co-
op the other day because you can take him
out, too.

And remember, ﬂowers are always
a nice touch.

Religion bridges carnpus gap

Corihuedtmrnt|'IeFmrtPage

“The GCF Leadership" for W&L
does a great job bringing in speakers that
talk on issues that are critical to a
Christian’s growth anddevelopment,” said
VlVlI cadet Dudas, which is why he attends
the function most Sunday evenings.

W&L sophomore Ryan Gritter has
had a great experience fellowshipping with
cadets. “There are not a lot of Christian
guys on campus here,” he said, “so it was
refreshing to make new Christian friends...
[They] have encouraged me to stay strong
in temptations here and have a different
perspective on things that can be helpful
and refreshing.” I

Cadets have been a part of GCF .for
a number of years, Park said. Before the
Commons was built, GCF was held in Lee
Chapel. “They were attracting 125 to 150
students on a Sunday night — and 20 to 25
were cadets. They even put a cadet on their
leadership committee to have a voice from
our side,” said Park.

Local churches in the area also hold
youth groups where students can
intermingle. Matt Williams, a VMI third

classman, attends Trinity Methodist’s
college group. .

“I like fellowship with anybody, and
it’s always nice to see a break in the sea of
uniforms and buzz-cuts,” he said. “I get a
better feel of ‘how the other half lives’ by
talking with them.” A

Davis, who also attends, thinks that
cadets have been a positive presence in her
religious growth. “College isn’t really a
time when people think about going to
church or continuing religious traditions
they upheld while still at home with their
parents,” she said. “Those of usthat still
wake up on Sundays, no matter what
happened the night before, or give up part
of our Sunday afternoons for college group
often get funny looks and many questions.
A lot of the cadets have set a fine example
of the fact that continuing your faith in
college isn’t an abnormal thing to do, and
it can in fact be great. They’ve been so
supportive.” ’

Datz respects the religious
community of both universities. “A group
of faith—f1lled folks get together and ask
‘What can we offer up to prayer for you?’

It takes a lot of trust to be that vulnerable.”

!'I'l|DEN'I'

W&L Bookstore Presents...

(Co-sponsored by Hillel for National Holocaust Remembrance Week).

Buried by The Times: The Holocaust and America’s Most
Important Newspaper is an in-depth look at how The New
York Times failed in its coverage of the fate of European
Jews from 1939-1945. It examines how the decisions that
were made at The Times ultimately resulted in the minimiz-
ing and misunderstanding of modern history’s worst geno-
cide. Laurel Leff, a veteran journalist and professor of
journalism, recounts how personal relationships at the
newspaper, the assimilationist tendencies of The Times’
Jewishowner, and the ethos of mid-century America all led.

the Times to consistently downplay news of the Holocaust.

Ms. Lejf will be on campus this
Thursday to give a talk in the

commons theater and sign copies
of her book.

 

  

  

 

6 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

word

 

NU‘lDAY,MAY2,ZI5 '

A W 8:, L education will
destroy your future

By Marshall Rule
THE POTATO MAN

I am convinced that Washington and
Lee University does not want me to
succeed in life. It continually puts me
down, lowers my self confidence, and
eliminates any chance of getting an edge
on my peers.

You may think that I am being
melodramatic about the conspiracy of
Robert E. Lee, George Washington,
President Burish, and the rest of the
administration, but I assure you, this is no
laughing matter.

The first way that the school has
eliminated any chance of my future
success was making a semester schedule
that allows every other college student in
the country to get good summer jobs
before I do.

Harnpden Sydney College students
are taking ﬁnals right now. Then they are
off to their internships and decent summer
gigs. Meanwhile, because we still have
four more weeks left of school, no
company can hire me because they need
people now, not in four weeks.

So while my friends from other
schools will all be working at a law firm
or some real business, I will be making
250 phone calls a day as a telemarketer
getting paid 7 bucks an hour.

I know that most of the W&L
population doesn’t really care about
getting a summer job because they don’t
need the money, but there are a few of us
“normal” college students out there.

It also doesn’t exactly help that there

is no grade inflation at this school
whatsoever. Don’t get me wrong, I’m not
looking for an easy A in every class, but
the occasional easy C wouldn’t be too
much to ask would it?

The social scene isn’t exactly
preparing me for real life either. Dating is
something that just doesn’t occur at this
school. The only dating scene at this
school is a random hookup or a marriage.
There doesn’t seem to be much gray area.

Adding to this fact is the idea that a
typical W&L date consists of meeting up
at a preparty to play some Beirut for an
hour or so and then go to a sweaty
basement to dance to an 80's cover band
while trying to avoid the pools of beer and
other unidentifiable liquids all over the
concrete ﬂoor. Very romantic.

In between avoiding the hookup
from the night before and trying to pull
out a C+ in yo_ur Discrete Math class, there
isn’t much to do in the metropolis called
Lexington.

So you are inevitably forced to drink
to make the time go by. Next thing you
know, you wake up a senior in spring term
that has cocktail hour at 10 o’clock in the
morning every day.

That’s right; I’m going out on a limb
in saying that this school breeds alcoholics.

So by the time I graduate from W&L
(in another seven years), I will have
become an alcoholic that is dating
impaired and tears movie tickets for a
living (no offense Mr. Movie Ticket Tearer,
you do great work).

Don’t worry Mom, at least I am
having $120,000 worth of fun.

So by the time I graduate from W&L (in another
seven years), I will have become an alcoholic

that is dating impaired, and tears movie tickets
for a living (no offense Mr. Movie Ticket Tearer,

you do great work). ‘

Seersucker, horses

Breka recaps Foxﬁelds and oﬁers up
a little advice for future races

By Bree Melton ‘
BR EKA

Foxfields.‘ Wow, what a fun,
muddy, interesting experience. It was
great seeing everyone at the pinnacle of
their frat- and sratdom. This being my first
Foxﬁelds experience, I learned that there
are some key things that make your day
complete.

The gentlemen must be wearing a '

Vineyard Vines tie, plaid or seersucker
pants, and ‘toting no less than three handles
of alcohol, one of which must be Beam.

The ladies, of course, must be in
their finest Lily dresses, a giant hat (I’ve
been waiting all year to wear mine), and a
huge smile because we do not pay for
alcohol.

I personally was thrilled to see at
least three seersucker suits. If it’s
reasonable to be obsessed with a fabric, I
might just be seersucker’s biggest fan. I
also had to turn and follow when I saw a
car drive by with two Beirut tables
strapped to it. I later found them under an
SAE and a VA Tech flag. I went to
introduce myself and see if they knew my
friends, but a ﬁght broke out and I had to
duck out of the way of ﬂying mud.

Earlier in the day, I had tried to
instigate some friendly mud—wrestling,
which in retrospect probably isn’t very
lady—like, but luckily no one would take
me up on it.

Some of my friends were actually
interested in betting on the race, but that’s
certainly not a thing necessary to the
validation of your experience. Because
really — horses? What horses?

However, there are some definite
things not to do while enjoying the races
and the company of your friends. Do not
get arrested. As much as I was delighted
by the sight of the seersucker suits, I was
incredibly saddened to later see one of
them carted away by the police. He was

not only cuffed, but one of the policemen
sat in the back of the truck with his arms
around the poor guy — I guess to keep him
from jumping out of the bed and running
away. Which would have been a problem
considering their golf carts only went
about two miles an hour. Why even bother
to put the siren on? It’s not like people
need to leap out of the way of your
speeding vehicle.

You might also want to avoid using
the port-a-potties. Those "mobile johns
were simply just foul. As one friend told
me, the key to using them is to get in line
twenty minutes before you actually have
to go and to not touch anything.

I suppose you could always go the
alternate route and pop a squat or whip it
out, whatever the case may be, but I really
don’t suggest that. It’s a little rude and
nobody is interested in witnessing it.

Also, you’ll want to avoid falling
in the mud. I don’t know how many people
I saw their feet go out from under them
and landing in a big pile of muck.

It’s one thing to have it covering

your feet (kudos to the girls in boots — that
was a wise choice); it’s another to have it
all down the back of your seersucker suit.
And we all know how much I love my
seersucker, it’s a crime to get it covered in
mud! I suppose I would have arrested that
guy too.
p And make sure you have a ride
home. You don’t want to be the random
guy on the sorority bus. It gets kind of
crazy and puts you in an awkward position,
but at least you get to meet some nice
ladies.

And speaking of rides, the
appropriate car, if you drive yourself, is
not a Porsche. Yeah, it’s a nice car, but
it’s almost deﬁnitely going to get stuck in
the mud, and you can’t pop open the trunk
and generously serve alcohol to smiling,
big-hatted, Lily-wearing girls!

Because we all know that Foxfields
is most certainly not about the races.

Trout shares his secret with 

girls: A 1993 Station Wagon

The Fisherman says that girls dig a good ride like his

By Hugh Trout
THE FISHERMAN

You might catch me thuggin’ on
the streets or hustling in da clubs, but
I’m never too far away from my sweet
ride: a brown, 1993 Volvo station
wagon.

Yeah, Iknow. . .I’m rad. I chose
the Volvo over other cars for various
reasons. First, while some guys think
that girls go after a guy who has a sense
of fun or adventure, I know what the
ladies are really looking for:
transportation in unparalleled safety.

That’s right, while some guys
talk game about how fast they can get
to 60 or great steering,’I’ve got
something that makes all the girls get
all hot and bothered: side air bags and
well-designed seat belts.

Other cars may scream “slick”
or “sporty”; my ride says “hey
girls. . .tliis guy likes to play it safe and
use his turn signals even in parking
lots.” I opted for the station wagon
because I said to myself, “Hey Hugh,
if your gonna get such a dope ride,
might as well make room for all the
women that are going to be trying to
grab a piece of the hotness of the car
and yourself.”

Darrin Fm sweet.

But that’s just one part of the
look. What good is a Volvo without
the hot tunes? No good Hugh, is what
your probably thinking. '

Don’t worry reader, I’ ve got this
music thing on lock down. First of
all, coming from D.C. I hear a lot of

While some guys talk game abouthow fast
they can get to 60 or great steering,

I ’ve got something that makes all the girls ,,
get all hot and bothered: side air bags

and well—designed seat belts.

 «
Y

rap (and Go Go...but tlrat’s a bit outof
place if your not actually at a Go Go) and
hip-hop, so I know what is legit as oppose
to what is just top 40 crap that is only
listened in suburbia.

So let’s start outwith the hardcore
stuff that only true insiders know about.
First off, there is the newest and hardest
album yet from Will Smith, Lost and
Found.

While many may think that the most
dangerous rival to 50 Cent is Jadakiss, in
fact its Will Smith. Will Smith is so street
that I am going to stop talking about him '
out of fear of retaliation.

However, when I’m cruising the
streets I love to keep it real with Lost and
Found or even some of the old school
stuff, Willenium and Big Willie Style.

When I’ve got a lady in the car, I
like to kick things a little bit differently.
Some good National Public Radio is
always a good way to say, “Hey, I want to
set the mood but keep up with current
events”. The NPR is what I like to call
“The Deal Sealer” when a girl is riding
with me it drives them crazy.

Sometimes on a date I like to drive
girls to some amazing view,‘crank open
my manual sunroof and start talking some

deep philosophical topic that I saw on
Saved By the Bell.

Yeah, I’m awesome to the max.

Ifl feel like things are going to get
a little crazy, I like to keep some peanut
butter and jelly sandwiches and a soccer‘
ball in the back just to complete the whole
soccer-mom look. And you may feel like
I’m the only guy on the street who rocks
it Volvo style (I’ve got more game than
Milton Bradley), but I heard through the
grapevine that Colin Farrell and the entire
cast of The O.C. drives Volvos.

I’m not sayin’ I know that for sure, ~
I’m just saying that its word on the street
that Volvos are very Hollywood right
now...so hot.

Some other good additions to those
who are working the Volvo game would _)
be a farmy pack (wear it off to the side for
a more-hip look) or if you have some four
or ﬁve—year—o1d that you can put in the
back seat it completes the whole gangsta
look. ‘Y

Let me tell you, there is nothing
more hood than a brown Volvo wagon
with kids in the back. Well, that’s all for
this week, hope everyone had a blast at 9
Foxfields and remember to keep on I
keepin’ on.

Show “Sex and The City” '
teaches lessons to women ’

Even after ﬁnal episode, women can still learn valuable
lessons about dating and love from DVD set

By Kristine Early
THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL

‘This article is for my fellow
ladies.
Sex and the City... It has fashion.
It has hot men (Aidan, I want your
babies). It has the streets, clubs, cafes
of NYC, and it has heart.

Why am I writing about a0

television show long after its final
episode reduced millions of us gals
(and Stanford fans) to tears? Because
some things never get old.

Sex and the City broke
boundaries. It took risks. It opened the
door for shows like the OC and
Desperate Housewives. It redefined
good television. So what if Sarah
Jessica Parker sold out and signed a
contract with Gap as the final credits
rolled? I for one will never stop
worshiping Carrie Bradshaw’s
collection of Manolo Blahniks and
Dolce and Gabbana heels. '

Every one of us dreams of being
the outgoing, conﬁdent Samantha, the
innocent, extremely sratty Charlotte or

‘ the ill—dressed New York columnist

herself. (Poor Miranda. No one wants
to be ugly and bitter). We all wish for
a man as sweet as Steve, as dedicated
and as GORGEOUS as Smith Jerrod
and as mysterious as Mr. Big. And we
all lust after Charlotte’s wardrobe (or
the real risk-takers among us:
Samantlia’s).

Not only is Sex and the City
entertaining, capturing our
imaginations and filling our heads with
unattainable goals (Face it: Smith

‘Y;
Don’t complain about his inability ‘_
to break up with you face-to—face.
Feel lucky. He could have dumped
you via a post—it—note a la Burger. *

Jarrod doesn’t exist), it’s also a valuable
educational tool. Since not everyone has
the time and dedication to be a true S &
the C fan like your favorite Ring Tum Phi
writer (You can admit it. I won’t tell. I
prornise.), I have taken it on myself to
watch all six seasons and compile their
most important lessons for you:

1) Your boyfriend just called to tell
you “it’s not you; it’s me?” Don’t complain
about his inability to break up with you
face-to—face. Feel lucky. He could have
dumped you via a post-it-note a la Burger.

_2) Every single girl needs an
Anthony or a Stanford. A man who likes
to shop and can always be called upon last
minute to escort you on a date
frmction. . .what more could you ask for?

3) There are plenty of ﬁsh and the
sea. They may be mental cases (Ray King),
arrogant assholes (Petrovsky), or cheats
(Richard), but there are plenty of ‘em out
there. And once and awhile you might get
lucky and find a bass worth keeping
(Steve).

4) Pay special attention to this one:
Marrying for money and status can
backfire (Charlotte to Trey). Mr.
Moneybags may have an overbearing and
intrusive mother. Or have ED. I guess Trey
never saw Bob Dole’s ads...

5) Occasionally love comes in a

unique package. Harry may be short, fat,
and bald, but he’s adorable all the same.

6) Males are confusing. But it’s"
always fun to meet at the local bar or
coffee shop with a group of friends and
attempt to ﬁgure them out.

7) As Miranda so adequately
demonstrates, in the end, all a girl needs
is cake and TiVo.

8) You can recover from any
embarrassing situation, so long as you
remain confident. You can even survive-Y
tripping on a runway.

9) Things don’t always happen as
planned (Miranda’s pregnancy,
Samantha’s bout with cancer). But in the
end, everything will turn out. - t’

10) Real friends will always be
there for you. When you get cheated on
(Samantha). When you go through a
divorce (Charlotte). When you need to
complain about last night’s date.

11) Try everything once. Like
seducing an Amish artist (Char). After all,
you only have one life to live.

12) Nothing is better than a night _p
out with friends. Take this one to heart?’
Next Friday evening, invite pals over, plop
down in front of the TV with cocktails,
and enjoy learning life’s lessons from a
few of the most talented actresses in town
It’s almost as fun as a sketchy DJ party.

 

" x

