     

.Arcl\
.4? 2578.755
,RS5’2.-.
V, I0’?
no.3
Cr?_

6??
MONDAY, MAY 10,2004

The lmdem‘ voice of .ll’/all/lz'7lg2‘o¢l and U6 U/lizlerlily time 7897

 

   

 

 

   

,.
E C hosts open forum students demand changes
By ERIN JULIUS The EC intends to begin
ED1TOR_]N_CH£EF discussing the issues raised in
the open forum at its Monday
Executive Committee night meeting, said Lane Mor-
in president Marie Trimble led an gan, class of ’07 representative.
open discussion about the “A lot of questions really
Honor System last Wednesday made us think about why we do
in Lee Chapel. Apanel ofEXeC11- the things we do instead of just
.«,I tiVe Committee membersbegan following procedure,” said EC
by answering pre-submitted President Marie Trimble,
questions and addressing com— Questions submitted
mon concerns regarding the prior to the open forum helped
Honor System. the EC understand what issues
‘O The floor Was then opened are important to the student
to discussion. Brett Kirwan, ’04, body. “We could see main ar-
Was the first Student to speak. eas of concern and we were able
KirWan expressed Concern to address them,” said Morgan.
I about the two—thirds rule in hand— Trimble said a few
ing over guilty verdicts. Only changes would be made in the
two—thirds of the EC members short-term_ Freshmen EC can-
must vote ‘guilty.’ Kirwan said didates will hold “candidate plat-
a guilty verdict should require forms," called by the EC ppm-
it a unanimous decision on the dent, in order to students a
part of the EC. chance to see who is running
, Kelly J o Larsen, ’05 then and to force candidates to think
spoke about accountability and about why they want to get in-
A the difficulties in holding EC volved, -
members accountable in Honor Budget allocations will
trials. also change next year. “We will
“My question is how are I hold groups very accountable
we supposed to know if our for what they did and what they STEVEN MAINS) R,-,,g_,,,,,, p,,,«
4 elected representatives are Out spent this year,” Trimble said. Open Forum. Students listen as EC President Marie Trimble speaks at the EC Open Forum held last Wednesday afternoon in Lee Chapel.
of touch with the values of the EC Secretary Justin -
Student b0dy...do We purge the Arnold, ‘05L, said the most concerns raised by students, he postings, “about the White ing the open forum at a “more sees the open forum as only the
entire EC?” Larsen said later. common concerns raised in the said, ‘ Book” on the EC board next year, opportune time.” beginning. “While I feel the
“Unless they give us the num— open forum were in regards to “Better communication “Our Honor system is only “Lately I’ve been con— open forum was successful, I
A hers and names of the Vote or the confidentiality clause. between the EC and the student as strong as student, faculty, ad- cemed about the campus opin— was disappointed in the low
provide some other way of 216- Also, “the openness of the body,”is alsoanEC goal for next ministrator and alumni trust in ion of the Honor System and I turnout and encourage all stu-
countability, they Can’t just say Executive Committee’s opera— year, Trimble said, “Conﬁdenti- it,” said class of ’05 representa- was hoping that the open forum dent to maintain and open dia-
_ We have the poWer to Vote them tions and the secretive nature ality is a legal issue,” she said, tive Thomas Worthy, who said would provide a good discus— logue with EC members,” he
4 out.” 4 of EC hearings,” were important but the EC plans to put more the EC had difﬁculty inschedul- sion,” he said. Worthy said he said.
Pl Beta Phi remains highest GPA HWCWALK
it BY CALEY ANDERSON Rounding out the top ﬁve were The biggest drops were by
OPINIONS EDITOR sorority Chi Omega, with a GPA of Lambda Chi Alpha and Chi Psi.
- 3.363, fraternity Sigma Nu, the high- Lambda _Chi.Alpha...which. was last
Today, the Phi takes a look at est placing fraternity, and fraternity term’s highest ranked fraternity, was
Winter Term grades, and reports on the Phi Gamma Delta, 3.309. only the 7th highest-ranked fraternity
'l standings of the various Greek orgarli- With Pi Phi and Sigma Nu tak— this term with aGPA of 3.229.
zations. Greek organizations are also ing the top places among the sorori- Also performing notably well
compared to last tenn and as compared ties and fraternities, the other end of were the independent men and women.
to Independent men and women. the spectrum was occupied by the Independent women tend to ﬁnish in
.t_ Grades overall took a slight lowest ranking sorority, Kappa Kappa the middle of the pack, while indepen-
boost afterFall Term, acommon occur— Gamma, who finished 14"‘ overall, be— dent men are usually slightly below
rence as students (especially freshmen) hind the other four sororities and the average.
get habituated back to W&L and be— independent women with a GPA of VVlth GPAs of 3.269 and 3.225,
I come more comfortable with their stud— 3.205. the independent women and men, re-
"‘~ ies. The dubious distinction of last spectively, ﬁnished 7”‘ and 12”‘ over-
Leading the pack among the 20 overall went to Chi Psi this term, a all. This represents a gigantic leap for
social groups (including the Indepen— disappointing setback after the independent men, who last term fm-
dent men and women) was, as has be— fraternity’s strong Fall Tenn. Vlflth a ished with a GPA of 3.085, and who
I come habit, sorority Pi Beta Phi, with a GPA of 3.049, Chi Psi ﬁnished behind ﬁnished with a GPA of only 3.197 last
I remarkable GPAof 3.399. all of the other Greek organizations as Winter Term.
Sorority Kappa Alpha Theta well as the independent men and Thecurnulativefema1eGPAwas
came Very close to knocking Pi Phi off women. 3.304, while the cumulative male GPA
their number one throne with a GPA of Among the biggest gainers over was 3.200. Overall, students at Wash-
‘ 3.385. last term were Sigma Chi and Sigma Nu. ington and Lee scored a GPA of 3:249.
1- Pi Beta Phi (3-399) 12. Lambda Chi Alpha (3.229)
2- Kappa Alpha Theta (3385) 13. Independent Men (3.225)
-’~ 3- Chi Omega (3.363) 14. Pi Kappa Alpha (3225)
4- Sigma N11 (3321) 15. Kappa Kappa Gamma (3.205)
5. Phi Gamma Delta (3309) 16. Kappa Sigma (3.165)
6- Sigma Chi (3-286) 17. Beta Theta Pi (3.136)
7. Independent women (3.269) 18. Phi Delta Theta (3.119)
wt 8. Kappa Delta‘ (3.263) 19. Sigma Alpha Epsilon (3.106)
9- Pi Kappa Phi (3-257) 20. Kappa Alpha (3.073)
10. Phi Kappa Sigma (3.250) 21. Chi Psi (3.049) STEVENMAR1 "Wm Pb,-
“' P1“ Kappa PS1 (3239) Graduation. LawCommencementoccl1redlastSaturday forthe ﬁrsttimeirlfrontofLee(Ihapel
ood D Ve feeds 40 families Students plan summer
‘ HRA F ri ' '
BY EMILY EDWARDS “We encourage every— By CATHERIN SWAN
‘ PRODUCHON ASSISTANT one to come out and SENIOR STAFF WRITER
' volunteer...[The food drive]
In late December and gives everyone in the W&L As the school year draws to a close, many students find
early January Melanie Barr, community and Lexington resi— themselves conﬁrming summer plans and ensuring that their
4 Serena Smith, and Marinda dents the chance to help those summers will be fun and rewarding. For many students, this
‘ Harrell began planning for a in their community in need,” involves seeking out a summer internship in the area of their
Spring “Thanksgiving” Food said Barr of this Spring’s drive. major or future career. Because Lexington is limited in terms of
Drive sponsored by the Human Barr hopes to raise six internship opportunities, students often ﬁnd themselves trav-
Rights Alliance. tons of food and encourages eling to metropolitan areas in order to ﬁnd a position that inter-
r» Barr and Smith got the any monetary or food dona— ests them.
idea from a Washington, D.C. tions. Donation boxes are 10- Employers use internships as a means of identifying tal-
high school that raises over cated in the fraternity and so! ent. This process can pay off; approximately 38% of company’s
40,000 pounds of food each rority houses and throughout interns become employees. The journalism department is the
year for area food banks. _ . campus. only department that requires an internship to complete the
K Harrell and Barr also co- . I c0RBIN13LAcKp0RD/ TR,” -13, b, When the drive ends on major. Still, many other W&L students seek out internships on
ordinated a Thanksgiving drive MY CUP RUNNETH °VER- The Nabors Sowice League Suite OVC‘ °“’5 May 14, 40 needy families in their own time. For those seeking an internship, visiting career
in November that raised 7,000 With food donﬂnons for noon)’ Lexington fnnnnon Lexington will have a month’s services can be the perfect place to start.
pounds of food, 2,000 of which . worth of food and a turkey. “From our perspective, it’s a very important part of the
I went to the local food bank. delivered bags donated by given date in the next two weeks. The remaining food will be career development process,” said Beverly Lorig, Director of
This month’s Spring Drive Kroger to most houses in the Volunteers will then take given to the local food bank. Career Services. Long emphasized that career services can help
started on April 27. Barr, Smith, area. Attached to the bags were the food to the Nabors Service Contact Melanie Barr at students market themselves to different companies. They also
and student volunteers mapped ﬂiers asking for food donations League suite and will weigh and barrm@wlu.edu for further in- have a wide variety of resources available for students begin-
out the city of Lexington and that would be picked up at a sort the food accordingly. formation. ning their search, including alumni resources, that are free of cost
)4.

 

 Q. LEYBURN LIBHAH tr
‘rt est-ilriG”i??DN is LEE I’!
it: K,’-“t_‘_"\.”~?»T‘;’,“tlltl, VA 24450

:-':i.irl’ni

PAGE 2

 
   

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

 l  >‘f.'j,l,l\‘

EWS

 

r Fortune writer to visit campus Tuesday

Bethany McLean, a senior writer for Fortune magazine, will dis-
cuss “The Smartest Guys in the Room: The Amazing Rise and Scan-
dalous Fall of Enron,” on Tuesday, May 11, at 4:30 p.m. in the Elrod
Commons Theater at Washington and Lee University.

Her talk, which is open to the public without charge, is spon-
sored by the Donald W. Reynolds Chair in Business Journalism and
W&L’s Department of Journalism and Mass Communications.

McLean, who joined Fortune in July 1995, has covered Wall
Street and investing, along with a wide range of industries and com-
panies, including Enron; Moody’s; Eli Lilly and the pharmaceutical
industry; Winstar; Lucent; Internet car salesmen; and the business
of professional wrestling.

In 2001, she was one of the first reporters nationally to raise
questions about Enron in her piece, “Is Enron Overpriced?” She has
continued to cover the Enron story for Fortune and, in conjunction
with that work, has appeared on news shows at NBC, CNN, CNBC
and other broadcast networks.

Before joining Fortune, where she also contributes to the “Street
Life” column at fortune.com, McLean worked at the investment bank
Goldman Sachs. She holds a bachelor’s degree from Wilhams Col-
lege.

Fmr. Gov to hold Town Meeting in Lee Chapel

Governor Linwood Holton will give a brief address at a Town
Meeting in Lee Chapel at 7:30 P.M. on 17 May. This is the date of the
50th anniversary of the Brown decision. At that time, there will also
be brief reﬂections by Wanda Early of Lylbum Downing High School,
Class of 1962, Rev. E.T. Burton of Roanoke, the Vice President of the
NAACP at the time of desegregation, William Perry, a former princi-
pal in Waynesboro, Margaret Walker, the school secretary at Lylbum
Downing for her entire career— she was at both the segregated and
the integrated Downing, and Peggy Hayes, government teacher at
Rockbridge County High School. Joseph Mormon, former Lylbum
Downing football coach will possibly be on this program.

Psychology Alum to address students

Captain John Schmidt ’81 will discuss Aerospace Experimental
Psychologists. The talk, sponsered by the Psychology Depart-
ment, will take place in Science Addition 214 on Friday, May 14, at
3:15 p.m.

Phi Eta Sigma inductions

Phi Eta Sigma, the Freshman Honorary, will be having induc-
tions this Friday at 3:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Phi Eta Sigma is a
national fraternity with a minimum GPA requirement of 3 .50. Wash-
ington and Lee requires a 3.70 cumulative GPA for students to be
inducted. Students are chosen based on their performance in the
Fall and Winter terms.

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs to speak at VMI

VMI will hold its Commencement exercises Saturday, May 15.
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Richard B. Myers will
address the 250 Cadets graduating this year. Myers is the highest-
ranking uniformed member of the military services. He acts as the
principal military adviser to the president, the secretary of defense,
and the National Security Council.

Mens Lacrosse to host Messiah College

Next Sunday, at a time to be announced, the men’s lacrosse
team will be hosting Messiah College in the second round of the
NCAA division III Men’s Lacrosse National Tournament. It will be

the last game of the season to take place on Wilson Field. Messiah

received the automatic qualifying bid after winning the Mid—Atlan-
tic Conference championship. Messiah’s Lacrosse team has only
existed for eight short years. Washington and Lee is making its
eighth trip to the NCAA tournament.

W&L places at the IHSA National Championships

Last Saturday at Middle Tennessee State University, W&L com-

peted in the IHSA Equestrian National Championships. Senior Sa-
rah Michaels placed third in novice fences and Sophomore Caitlin

Lane placed fourth in the open ﬂat.

Housing search burdens students

Upperclass students struggle to ﬁnd roommates, affordable, quality housing in Lexington

BY ERIN JULIUS‘
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Every winter, Washington and Lee sophomores struggle to
put together housing arrangements for the next academic year.
Upperclass and Law students rriight find housing on-campus, but
preference is_ given to freshmen and sophomores. So most upper-
classmen must ﬁnd housing in Lexington or Rockbridge County.

Other upperclassmen choose to live in fraternity or sorority
houses, but space in these on—campus residences is also limited.
749 undergraduate students and 347 law students live off—campus,
for a total of 1096 Washington and Lee students who must find

(I) News  

housing each year.

Locating suitable living arrangements is a challenge for most
students. Lexington zoning policies affect students’ house—hunts.
According to Lexington City Manger Jon Ellestad, the city’s
zoning ordinances limit the number of unrelated people living in a

single—family home to three.

Christy West, property manager for Re/Max Realtors in Lex-
ington, said that students can get around Lexington’s zoning ordi-
nance by obtaining a conditional use permit, which must be ap-

proved by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Most students who en-
deavor to find off-campus housing work through a realtor familiar with
the area and with student needs. West serves about 120 students each
year, she said. In» her experience, most students want houses in
Rockbridge County and look for properties with rent that falls between
$750 and $1300.

West said that Re/Max holds about 75 rentals within Lexington’s
city lirriits, many of which are rented by students. Many students have
found that finding a quality home within Lexington’s city limits is diffi-

cult. Landlords often frustrate undergraduate students’ attempts to _

find housing because they prefer Washington and Lee Law students
to live in, “the nicer, smaller apartments,” said West.

Some students ﬁnd apartments that are a viable option, “We
couldn’t find a house for the right number of people that was nice
enough,” said junior Rachel Chisolm, who lives in a three—bedroom
apartment with two of her friends.

Most upperclassmen say they enjoy the chance to live off—cain—
pus. “After living on-carnpus freshman year and sophomore year, I

love the freedom of living off campus and carmot imagine moving back v

on campus,” said junior Kristine Calderone.

Hidden Hero Celia Landgren

Landgren actively involved in campus programs such as University Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGlNG EDITOR

Celia Landgren, a junior Eco-
nomics and Politics major, contrib-
utes in many ways to the Wash-
ington and Lee community. She
describes herself as being like the
“energizer bunny” because she is
always “bouncing off the walls.”

She is actively involved in the
University Shenandoah Sym-
phony Orchestra. She has served
as Concert Master for the past
three years. Landgren said that it
only seemed natural to get in-
volved with the symphony or-
chestra. Both of her parents are
professional musicians. As Con-
cert Master, she coaches all the
sections on various techniques.

Sorority life plays a major role
in Landgren’s Washington and
Lee experience. As president of
Kappa Delta, she oversees all 140
plus girls on a day to day basis.
This number includes eight execu-

tive officers an,d_,40_appoirited of-g
ﬁcers. Before being president, she 1

served as the Vice President for
Publicity.

Landgren is a member of the
Nabors Service League. She has
participated in the last two Nabors

;, ,_fam_ily. 

Service Days where she went to
the Mayﬂower and talked to resi-
dents.

Landgren also acts as the
Chief of Staff of the College Re-
publicans. She was responsible
for planning the Party for the
President. Landgren works in a
secretarial role, working with the
other three executive officers.

Upon graduation, she wants
to go to law school. “lipray every
night that someone will take me,”
said Landgren. She would like to
go to University of Maryland,
Case Western Reserve University,
or George Washington Univer-
sity.

“The most important thing
anyone can do is have a family,”
said Landgren. In ten years she
would love to be on her way to
having a big family with many
children.

“I am definitely not here to
get my MRS degree,” said
Landgren. She wants to work; she
just emphasized the importance of.

‘ Celia Landgren is the type of
leader that makes W&L great. Her
orderliness, excitement, and
unique musical talents make her
an important piece of the Wash-
ington and Lee puzzle.

JEB BROOKS / The Ring-tum Phi
Star Queen. Landgren is behind-the-scene Hidden Hero

     
 
  

MUSIC OUTSIDE GRAHAM—LEES

Spring Time! Wheeler Sparks and Peterjones, members of Red Letter, perform for freshhrnen at the FLC barbeque outside Graham-Lees

STEVEN MARINO The Rz'r1—tum Phi

 
  
  
 
  

 
 

Student Discounts

Creating solutions. Changing lives.

U.

SUMMER CAMP JOBS

Looking for the best summer of your life?
Camp Easter Seals in Virginia has job openings
for camp counselors and program leaders
(aquatics, horseback riding, music, nature,
sports and more). Work with children and
adults with disabilities at one of our beautiful
camping facilities. Staff members come from
across the U5 and around the world. Room,
board and salary provided. For information
contact Lauren Lightfoor at (804) 633-9855
" or IIightfoo‘l'@va.easter'-sea|s.org

Need a ride?
Call Traveller!

458-8900

.11.

 
 
  
 
  
    
 
      

  
 
 

  

 
     
      

 

    
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
   
  

~.

CAIEYANDERSON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
aridersonc@wlnedu

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

THE Ride-run Pin

PINIONS A 0 .

Increasing University name recognition a big deal

W&L, and further, almost 50% of recruiters thought W&L was not
one of the Top 50 liberal arts colleges in the nation.” That is truly
frightening news for those of us that are here to get a good educa-
tion that will lead to a good job. Unfortunately, it seems like not all
of us are here for that reason. Some are here for a four—year party

 

PAGE 3

8 run RING-IUM Pm‘

TAFF EDITORIAL

is There has been a lot of talk around campus for a while about
I Listen up how Washington and Lee University is changing and heading in a
new direction. There have been many public outcries denouncing

Ourlgxecutive Committee did well the evils of “the administration’s” efforts to improve the school’s

to h 01 d an Open Forum for concerned national standing. Everything from cracking down on fraternity vio-

A Students last week. Open dialogue be lastions to encouraging minority students to apply is seen as the before getting a cushy job set-up by daddy or one of his friends’

, warthmorification of W&L. W&L is unique, we must hold dear companies, or marrying the recipient of the latter. For those of us

tween upseft smd_emS  their elected to our traditions and not conform to US News and World Report!” that are using a W&L education as a stepping—stone to future great-

representatlves W111 ceftanﬂy Sﬂengtilen Oh, yeah? Then why the current attack on the EC and honor system? ness, we desperately need that name recognition and higher ranking.

k our Hon“ SY5tem—1f the EXCCUUVC The single greatest, most unique and time-honored attribute of our W&L has been an excellent institution for centuries and yet we are

‘ Committee takes students; lSS1lCS to school is the honor system and I hear rumblings of _m..___ still ‘not well-known, obviously it is time to try some-
heart. whole-sale reform? What other school offers un- M135 lNDEPENDENT thing different.

Accountability, conﬁdentiality and locked doors, unproctored exams (heck, my spel1- ALEXA MOUTEVELIS (06 The honor system, though, is one tradition

communication between the EC andstw check even says that “unproctored” isn’t a word, T»; that is to be kept, as it only reflects well on the school.

I‘. that’s how unheard of it is!), unattended belong- The fraternity system is another animal. Iam not against

dent body are all important issues.
Changes to the EC election process, for
example, open “Candidate Platforms” are
a step in the right direction. Ideally, Can-
"‘ didate Platforms will help in two ways.
Candidate Platforms will introduce po-
tential EC members, and their issues, to
the student body. Candidate Platforms
"* will also demand that candidates exam-

ine their motives for rtmning. Through
A this more formal election process, we

hope some level of accountability can be
A achieved. 0

While it is understandable that con-
ﬁdentiality is an important legal issue, we
also hope that the EC devises some way
A‘ to communicate its individual members’
opinions to the student body. General
confusion about what constitutes an
Honor Violation seems widespread. EC
,, members should be clear and logical
about their views regarding Honor Vio-
lations.

As a campus publication, we prom-
ise to do our part by ensuring that the
Ring—tum Phi is represented at events
such as the open forum. In our capacity
as a student newspaper, we understand
that it is our duty to facilitate communi-
cation between our EC and student body.

This year, there has been much de-
bate about, and disappointment in, the
Honor System. We firmly believe that
the Honor System is one of the most re-
vered of Washington and Lee’s traditions,
and we hope that the EC truly listens to
the student body’s concerns and endeav-
ors to make improvements.

ings, and teachers that trust your word? I’m sure if it was the admin-
istration that was hinting of a review of the honor system, there
would be an uproar! Why are we so willing to change this tradition,
but not other less important ones that tarnish our image?

I think it’s because people here just want to be comfortable
and have a good time instead of taking college seriously. They are
upset about “changes” coming to W&L because they don’t'want to
see their little country-club world threatened in the name of (gasp!)
greater visibility and recognition. In the limited wealthy Southern
world, Washington and Lee is a name associated with excellence,
honor, and tradition, but in the rest of the world it is a name that is
not associated with much of anything. One report noted that “Four
out of five [professional recruiters] were ‘completely unfamiliar’ with

Naturalized as well as natural-born citizens

the fraternity system, Ijust don’t think the whole drink-and-party-
24/7 thing looks good to future employers and grad schools. Obvi-
ously in this tiny town in the middle of nowhere, there isn’t much to
do outside of frat parties, but shouldn’t we do more to enhance our
reputation and present ourselves as a more serious institution? We
have such great potential - it’s just that the greatest things about
our school are being overshadowed. by non-academic issues. We
shouldn’t defend the party culture at all costs; we have to seriously
examine if it is truly harmful to our future. If it comes down to it,
wouldn’t you rather be an alum of “Washington and Lee: a presti-
gious, world-renowned university” than “Washington and Lee: a
school that thinks its greatest accomplishment will come when it
reaches #1 on the Biggest Party School ranking.”

must have right to run for Presidency

)-

te of the Week

))

 
  
     
  

“The patient realized that he would be
unable to crucify himself when he noted e

 
   
  

,t . . . . . .
the impossibility of reaching over to nail
in his Other  ” PHOTO COURTESY or: mir/me/a4rrie.cor/I
I. L ‘ CONANTHE CHIEF EXECUTIVE? Gov. Arnold Scwarzenegger (R-Calif), the foremost naturalized citizen among possible Presidential candidates of the future.
“' ‘A Hartlanda Mame ERteChmC1an- The Constitution, and thus the U.S. fact that only Americans born in America (or immigrants who had just taken the test, the
' government, have always been ﬂexible. This those Americans who had founded America) immigrants outscored the citizens by nearly
is one of the major reasons for our success as could truly understand the idea of American two to one.
__ a nation over the centuries we’ve existed. government. And if you really need final proof
4  Since the Constitution was written, Article II, Two and a quarter centuries later, this that immigrants are capable of high-level ex-
- Section 1, Clause 5 has specified that only is obviously no longer the case. In a world ecutive governance, there is, of course, Gov-*
. _ _ _ _ natural born citizens of the United States have exponentially—better educated than that in the ernor Arnold Schwarzenegger. I didn’t vote
MEMO,’ '"ES’_"ef  the right of aspiring to the Presidency. The late 18"‘ Century, an understanding of the ba- for him during the recall election, but if he
anagmg “or an em“ time is long past due for us to sic concepts of American gov- runs for re-election, I almost certainly would.
7*" . . . make a change. ‘ ’ ernrrient is easy for most 'for- He has done a phenomenal job in office, de-
Optmons Editor Caley Anderson _ _ MODERATES MUSINGS , , _ _ _ _ , _ ,
Ass, Op,-m-om Ed,-to, Anne Finley The reasoning in ‘ eign nationals trying to immi- fying everyone s expectations. He  stood
photography Ed,-to, co,-bin Blackford 1789 was an assumption that CALEY ANDERSON  grate in. up for the environment while still getting the
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland natural born citizens would be There currently re— economy back on track, he’s taken social poli-
J‘ Chad Kiewiet de Jonge completely unfamiliar with the American sys- mains no good reason to deny naturalized citi- cies to both ends of the political spectrum,
P’0d"C’i0" 3“-95"3‘“'“5 Emi|YEdW8l‘dS tern of government, and certainly, in that day, zens the Presidency. Besides xenophobia, I and in the course of his trials, he’s managed
_ K9“? J“ L‘“'““ this was true. The whole importance of the can’t think of anything that would prevent a to unify California Democrats and Republi-
Copy Edm”  Argess A American revolution in world history is its person from agreeing. You could make a very cans as never before.
a "me wan * place as the first major modern movement to- strong argument that the typical natural-born And of course, the Governator has
A Busine” Managers Paul Semen wards popular government. Even the most U.S. citizen is actually less concerned and less hinted at aspirations to the Presidency. This
David seifen friendly Europeans struggled somewhat to un- knowledgeable about U.S. government than January, whoever wins the contested Cali-
c,'rcu1a;,'0,,D,',ec;o, Robnain derstand the Democratic experiment. most immigrants. They, by the way, have to fornia Senate seat that’s up for grabs will
Asst. Circulation Dir Leggett Kitchin Lafayette, a Frenchman and hero of the Ameri- take a rather demanding test when becoming likely go to Washington with a proposed
4 Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb can Revolution, later fought to defend King citizens. When U.S. Citizenship and Immigra— amendment of just the kind I’m advocating.
’ Louis XVI in the French Revolution, much to tion services administered the test to a group So you heard it here first, folks- support
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the the chagrin of some of his former comrades in of 500 random natural born U.S. citizens and Amendment XXVIII in 2008, and vote Arnold
““d°"3"ad"‘“° 5°h°°1Y°*" *“WaShl“8‘°“ 3"“ 1“ U“i"°" the Continental Army. It was simply a given compared them to a random selection of 500 in 2012.
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of _
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent. A
)‘ The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub— . . ' u u
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed R _t Ph Q k P 
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by mg  I U  O
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. “ _ ”
The Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions ' _ ' ' ' ' '
,,,  ,,,, ,,,,g,,,,  ,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,  Question By the time the Class of 2008 graduates, W&L Wlll have lost most of the things that makes it unique.
It necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi _ ‘
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper _
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity. 
Ute Ring-tum Phi
‘University Commons Room. 341
A Washington and Lee University
Tnfxizgzom ggggjggggo Yes- 15% No- 80% Don ’t Know- 4%
e ep one: -
Fax: (540) 458-4059 «
E"“"’{ P?"@W’"-ed“ 46 students were polled. 24 male, 23 female. This poll has 90% conﬁdence in a plus or minus 3% margin of error.
Subscription rate $40 _

 

 

  

,walked around campus and

PAGE 4

THIZ RING-TUM Pill

CAIEYANDPRSON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
andersonc@wiu.odu

PINIONS

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

Break out of the mold— real University diversity

In a school as small and homogenous
as Washington and Lee, the idea of not fitting
the mold of the typical student can be rather
terrifying. Personally, when I was between com-
ing here and another school, I could feel as soon
as I visited and stayed in the suite of some re-
ally great girls that this was where I belonged. I

again, I am hardly atypical in this aspect. I was
actually born in Richmond, though I only lived
there unll I was a year old, so that explains my
initial geographic and cultural ignorance. And I
was raised in a Republican household, though
I’m really more of a fiscal conservative/social
liberal nowadays, so I didn’t break the mold too
much there either. Finally, I even

could see myself here in the THE BIG PICTURE Was excited at the prospect of
future. Everyone was so . , joining a sorority, which I did
friendly and sincere, whereas   much to my satisfaction. So on

a large state campus seemed
impersonal and unwelcoming. You couldn’t fall
through the cracks at a place like W&L; you
would be supported and embraced.

That is not to say that there weren’t
certain surprises waiting for me. Honestly, I
somehow never focused on the fact that it was
fundamentally such a southern school. Coming
from Texas, Virginia seemed so far north that it
was practically New England to me. And though
if you asked me if it technically fit into the South-
ern region I could tell you that it did, I hardly
imagined it could be the heart of the Deep South,
strewn with confederate ﬂags and all. Yet, once

paper I think I’m a pretty darn
good fit here.

Yet, as the regular Phi reader may have
noticed, I am also very opinionated and pas-
sionate about certain issues. Sometimes, it just
so happens that my opinions may not coincide
with the majority of the student body’s. And I
cannot tell you how many times I have heard in
conversation a friend asking with regards to me
or someone else, “Then why did they go here?”
I’m not ultra—conservative and I don’t have an
extreme amount of Southern pride, “Then why
did you go to this school?” If someone doesn’t
drink excessively or feel the need to party five

nights a week, people wonder why they chose
good old Washington and Lee. And if a student
doesn’t choose to pledge a sorority or frater-
nity, there's that same question again.

One of my favorite personal anecdotes for
this was at the Guerilla Girls presentation (which
if you don’t know was an impressive feminist
comedy troupe). Sometimes I would be nodding
at what I thought was a particularly valid point
only to look around and see the audience seeth-
ing and glaring up at the stage. Ok, maybe the
topic of Mother Theresa should generally be
avoided. By the end, though, I was feeling kind
of energized and proud of being a female. I
turned to one of my best friends and semi-jok-
ingly said, “I’m gonna become a huge feminist
now, what do you think?” I will never forget the
look of horror on her face as she quietly replied:
“If you wanted to be a feminist, why would you
come here?” This conversation was not particu-
larly upsetting, nor was my friendship harmed. I
don’t love people simply because they agree
with my views of things, and a compatible rela-
tionship is based more on common interests than
ideology anyways.

And, relatively speaking, this situation
was tame compared to other incidents I’ve en-
countered. I’m only a freshman, one who has
written only a handful of editorials, and already
one student has told me that I “go against the
entire W&L community every week in my ar-
ticles” and a fellow staffer informed me I should
write all the controversial topics from then on
because all the readers ‘already hate me.’ Dif-
ferences are what make us unique and worth
knowing, but if everyone at Washington and
Lee was exactly the same wouldn’t it be rather
boring? Just think of all the fascinating human
specimens you would never get to meet if they
were deterred from attending our fine institu-
tion out of a sense that they wouldn’t fit in. I’m
extremely proud of the fact that our school is
academically such a selective university, but a
student desire for selectivity based on exclud-
ing people with different life experiences, socio-
economic backgrounds, sexual preferences, or
ideologies is called elitism and cultural igno-
rance. So I say come all ye feminists,
northemers, liberals, and sober drivers; we’d
be lucky to have you.

GSA thinks about self-isolation,

“We’ve come so far,”
is a slogan I hear a lot when
people talk about the Gay-
Straight Alliance. “Yes, yes we
have,” is usually how I reply.
I like to think so. But have we?

Last Spring Term I
took Dr. McAhren’s gay and
lesbian history course. It
seemed to be an especially odd
grouping of people; among my

“Kelly Jo, if you could
only hear my frat house dur-
ing dinner time. Think about
it. It took me four years to get
here, and I’m probably doing
better than most people on
this campus. You just sur-
round yourself with people
who think like you do,” he
replied, or something to a
similar effect. '

c l a s s m ate s  R e a l i t y
was one MORETHANMAINSTREAM check. Did I
gentleman wear blinders
whom I KELLY IO LARSEN ‘05 to the true cam-
w ould de - pus community
scribe as exceptionally at W&L?

fratastic. You know the type—
frat hair, collar up, “good” fra-
ternity (is there really such a
thing?), etc, etc. He was a his-
tory major and I had been in
class with him several times
prior to this one. Always en-
tertaining in any class, he con-
sistently offered a unique and
interesting perspective. To-
wards the end of the term our
class had a discussion about
gays and lesbians in college
fraternities and sororities.
Naturally, that led straight into
a conversation about the GLBT
community at W&L. I made the
comment that I thought things
were really changing at W&L;
that there was a noticeable dif-
ference in the climate at W&L
over the last 2 years. My
fratastic friend, shook his head
and gave me ‘this placating
smile from across the circle.
“What?” I asked.

NSL

After completing a sec-
ond year as GSA Co-Chair, I
wish I could talk to my dear
fratastic friend again.
“Sure,” I would say, “things
might not seem great now,
but they’re better than they
were. There’s a lot we can ac-
complish yet, but we’ve come
great strides.”

Over Alumni Weekend,
KEWL and the GSA hosted a
panel of two openly gay al-
ums. Multiple gay alums at-
tended, each with their own

story to tell. One thing be-

came abundantly clear—they
all believed a discussion of
this type could not have hap-
pened while they were here.
They could cite change from
one generation to the next,
and our generation at W&L
proved no different. We
seem to be on an uphill climb
towards the acceptance of

E-mail perinij@wIu.edu for more information, or visit http://shepherdapps.wlu.edu/nabors/about

the gay community at W&L.
The ‘90s were better than the
‘80s which were better than
the ‘70s and so on and so
forth. Sure, the differences
might be slight in some in-
stances, but they most assur-
edly were there.

Change doesn’t happen
over night. W&L is not go-
ing to become UC— Berkley-
esqe at any point in the near
future; nor the distant future;
nor probably ever. And that

is not a bad thing. W&L is '

more ,diverse than most
people think it is. I reference
you to the General’s Aware-
ness Program brochure to
gain some interesting statis-
tics. It’s not that we are void
of all diversity, we just need
to acknowledge, accept, and
celebrate what makes mem-
bers of our campus unique.
Sure, there’s room for im-
provement, but isn’t there al-
ways?

So, Mr. Fratastic, as I
complete my tenure as GSA
Co-Chair, I say to you, we
have made a difference.
While I might not hear the frat
house dinner conversation, I
will rest assured that they too
will change in time. Someday.
Progress is slow, but it is
progress nonetheless. I in-
vite you to look around, Mr.
Fratastic, maybe you’re the
one surrounding yourself
with people who think like
you do.

Nabors Service Day

This coming Saturday, May 15th, be a good citizen for a day. It’s fun, and you can make a difference in the community.

makes a difference on campus

GSAAccoMy1_1sHMEN-rs, One of the Gay-Straight Alliance’s most controversial recent accomplishments was
the institution of the Safe Place Program. '

From the Multicultural Life website- “The Safe Place symbol sends a message to students,
faculty, and staff. Posting this symbol represents your willingness and commitment to providing a
Safe Place for all students—an atmosphere of acceptance, respect, and assistance. Posting this
symbol does not indicate anything about your own sexual orientation. We recommend posting the
symbol on your ofﬁce door, although any prominent location will do.Why do we need this program
at W&L? Gays, lesbians, and bisexuals are some of the most marginalized members of the W&L
community. In an effort to rectify this, the Safe Place Program was conceptualized in the 1999-2000
school year, and is not a response to any particular incident. Implementation of the program pro-
vides another way to increase tolerance and awareness of diversity of all kinds within the W&L

NSL

RED HOT PROGRESSIVE
BLUEGRASS BAND

MULE TRAIN

FEATUREING: GARY RULEY, WILL LEE,
LARRY KEEL, AND JENNY KEEL

RARE OPPORTUNITY TO BOOK THIS
BAND FOR YEAR END
CELEBRATION
Available: MAY 10-12, 1
MAY 7, 18, 31
JUNE 1,2

CALL GARY RULEY AT 463-6683 OR 463-
4584 OR WVVW.LARRYKEEL.COM

Celebrate Spring Time
Father’s Day
Brides ~ Graduation

’ vvitha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540) 264-0063
A Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages

Speaking Engagements
Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

Gr_ad School
Gr veawa

    

   

Enter Kap|an’s Grad School Giveaway
for a chance to win a free 42" Sony” Plasma
TV, Sony‘ DVD Dream’ System, or MP3 player.

Visit kaptest.com/giveaway to enter today!

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/giveaway

Test Prep and Admissions

N0 PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. Open to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of
Columbia and Canada (excluding the Province of Quebec) and students residing ON A STUDENT VISA in these eligible
jUVi5dICtIDfiS who are eighteen (18) years oi age or older as of March 15. 2004. LIMIT: one entry per person. All
entries must be received or postmarked by June 15. 2004. For additional eligibility restrictions and instructions to
enter. see the complete Official Rules. available at Kaplan centers and oncampus sites in the u.s. and Canada.
onllne at kaptestoom/giveaway. or by sending a sell-addressed. stamped envelope to ‘Grad School” Giveaway, 1440
Broadway. 8'“ Floor, New York, NY 10018. Thirteen (13) winners will be seteqted from all eligible entries received in a
random ciruwingtn be held on or about August 9. 2004. Odds of winning depend on total number or eligible entries
received. Pamclvnlori n this Dmrnasion constitutes orrtrarlrs Mi and unconditional qioemant to and acceptance of
the wmplete Official Rules. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED, TAXED OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED. If you do not wish to
receive notice of future Kapian Test Prep and Admissions promotions, contact us at Kaplan Test Prep and
Admissions. Marketing Department, 1440 Broadway. 8' Floor. New York. NV 10018.

 

  

JOHNHYIAND

Asst-rANr SPOKIS EDIIOR
hylandjb@wluedu

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

THE  PI--ll

PORTS  

Womens’ lax lose in NCAAS

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

The Women’s Lacrosse team entered the sec-
ond round of NCAA division III nationals Satur-
day, but unfortunately, this was the end of national

competition for the Generals. The Gettysburg Bul-i

lets defeated the Generals 13-8.

Senior Kelly Taffe accounted for 4 of the Gen-
erals goals to lead the team in scoring. The high-
light of the game for the Generals was certainly

()UR'I'ESY SPORTS INFORMATION
Top PLAYER. Senior goalie Ansel Sanders was named

ODAC Player of the Year. -

when Taffe broke both of her own school records
again to make her final record tally 182 goals and
238 points. A

Other point-earners for the Generals included
senior Lee Wheeler (2) and junior Kristen Brown
(1). Senior Joanna Perini knocked away 10 goal at-
tempts by the Bullets. 0

Though the Generals have ended season play
with their defeat, the women still claimed a school
record for a most successful season. The women
claimed 15 wins to a mere 4 defeats.

    

RTESY P PORTS NFOON

Six named to All-ODAC Mens’ lacrosse team

Sanders named Player of the Year, Cerino named Coach of the Year

W&L SRoRTs RELEASE

SALEM, Va. —— The Old Dominion Athletic
Conference announced its all-conference men’s la-
crosse team on Wednesday afternoon. Washington
and Lee claimed six players on the first and second
teams, while senior goalie Ansel Sanders (White
Stone, VaJWoodberiy Forest) was named Player of
the Year and Mike Cerino was named Coach of the
Year.

Sanders, fellow seniors Dustin Martin
(Manlius, N.Y./Fayetteville-Manlius), Lawson
Grumbine (Owings Mills, Md./Gilman), Kenny
Rasamny (Chappaqua, N.Y/Horace Greeley) and jun-
ior attackrnan Gavin Molinelli (Northport, N.Y./
Northport) were all named First Team All—Confer-
ence. Junior defenseman Eric Koch (Mountain
Lakes, N.J./Mountain Lakes) was named Second
TeamAll-ODAC.

Sanders’ selection as Player of the Year was
W&L’s first since Pope Hackney ’0l garnered the
award in 2001. It also marked the first-ever selection
of a W&L goalkeeper for the award. The First Team
All-ODAC goalie each of the past two seasons, Sand-
ers has compiled a career-high .620 save percentage
on 152 saves this season. His 6.14 goals-against
average ranks third in Division HI.

‘ An Honorable Mention All-American last sea-
son, Sanders ranks sixth all—time at W&L with 445
career saves.

Martin, a rriidﬁelder, earned his second—con-
secutive selection to the first team after compiling 38
points on 29 goals and nine assists. An Honorable
Mention All-American last season, he also ranks
fifth on the team with 37 ground balls.

Grumbine, a defenseman, also garnered his
second—straight first team nod after spearheading a
W&L defense which ranks third in Division IH (6.19
gpg). He also tallied two goals and has collected 31
ground balls.

Rasanmy earned his first All-ODAC selec-
tion at the long-stick midﬁeld position. A starter in
all 16 games, he is second on the team with 69
ground balls and has notched a career—high six
points on one goal and ﬁve assists.

Molinelli eamed First Team All-ODAC acco: ’_ ' 3
lades after receiving honorable mention status last

season. He leads the team with 48 points on 17
goals and a tea.in- and career-high 31 assists.

Koch was named to the second team after ' '

teaming with Sanders and Grumbine to lead a W&L
defense which ranks third in Division III (6.19 gpg).

He has scored one goal and claims 19 ground balls. '

Cerino earned his second Coach of the Year
award in three seasons as head coach after leading
the Generals to a 13-3 overall record, a 6-0 mark in
the ODAC and an ODAC Tournament Champion-
ship.

W&L, ranked seventh in the lastest Division
HI poll, has won 1l—straight games after starting
the season 2-3.

West still dam hates 1'11 NBA playoffs

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRITER

The NBA playoffs are well under way now, and for the most part
it’s the usual suspects. The higher seeded team won every series in the
ﬁrst round, which makes the bracket look like that of the women’s NCAA
Tourney. The excitement of upsets that made this yea.r’s men’s touma-
ment so exciting is absent from the playoffs, but it is different in the
NBA, and we want all the best teams playing for the championship. So
here’s a quick rundown of what’s happened so far and what I predict is
to come.

In the East the big three, New Jersey, Indiana, and Detroit, all
advanced easily with only one loss between the three of them. The
fourth series, between the Miami Heat and New Orleans Hornets, was
the troublemaker in the East. As the second round got under way
theses two teams were still busy playing games 6 and 7. Unfortunately,
though this series was really fun to watch due to the athleticism of

Dwayne Wade and Baron Davis, pretty much everyone was tliinking,_

“Are they still playing? Eh, who cares?” It’s widely accepted that these
teams were merely playing for the right to lose to the Pacers,.who had to
wait a couple weeks to begin the second round after sweeping the
Celtics. I myself am still hoping for another Miami miracle, but there’s
no way I’d predict that. . .I’m a Miami fan but I’m not stupid.
Unfortunately, neither of the second round matchups in the East
show much potential for excitement. The Pistons are already up 2-0 on
lge Nets, and New Jersey doesn’t seem to have any answer to the
i side game of the Wallace’s. As previously mentioned, the Pacers

of the Pacers. I would expect the series to be close, but I feel the Pistons
are the best team in the East and will advance to the ﬁnals and try to take
the title back for the East.

The West is as strong as ever, as evidenced by the fact that the
Lakers aren’t dominating everyone with Karl Malone and Gary Payton
as role players assisting Shaq and Kobe. When will sports teams learn?
Signing big name players past their prime doesn’t guarantee a champi-
onship (see Oakland Raiders, the Yankees the past 3 years, and the
Mets). San Antonio has gone up on the Lakers 2-0 and should move on
to the Western conference finals, but the series between the
Tirnberwolves and Kings is much more intriguing to predict. The Kings
have taken home court advantage away from Minnesota with a win in
game 1, and things seem to be working in their favorinother ways as
well. While they can’t expect Latrell Sprewell and MVP Kevin Garnett

' to be that cold again, they also shouldn’t have to deal with 40 points

from Sam Cassell on a nightly basis. Furthermore, Minnesota is bat-
tered, with Troy Hudson and Wally Szczerbiak both out and center
Ervin Johnson nursing a hurt hand. Peja Stojakovic won't be as quiet in
subsequent games (14 points in game one), and the Kings just have so
many scoring options. I would expect the Kings to win this series in 6,
but then lose to the Spurs in the ﬁnals. The Spurs have the experience
in the playoffs and have looked very impressive in the first 2 games
against the Lakers, with 2 ten point wins and the emergence of Tony
Parker as a t:rue leader.

So back to my previous question, will the East have any chance
against the West in the finals? Well, if you learned anything about me
from my prediction in the NCAA Tournament it should’ve been that I

Baseball has ﬁve on ODAC team

W&L SPORTS RELEASE pitched this season, he recorded

a 2.33 ERA and 64 strikeouts with
just 11 walks.
Mulhem received his sec-
‘ond—straight first-team nod after
ﬁnishing the season third on the
team with a .360 batting average
and 50 hits, which included 38
RBI, 12 doubles and a school
record—tying nine home runs.
Gosselink received sec-
‘ond-team laurels after leadingthe

LEX]NGTON, Va. —— Se-
nior left—hander Peter Dean
(Vienna, Va./James Madison)
eanied Old Dominion Athletic
Conference (ODAC) Pitcher of
the Year honors as ﬁve Wash-
ington and Lee baseball play-
ers were named to the 2004 All-
ODAC team, announced
Wednesdayafternoon.  A

Joining Dean on the first

team was senior right ﬁelder erage and 34 runs scored. He also
Bryan Mulhem (Chadd’s Ford, ﬁnished second on the team with
Pa./Unionville). Senior short— 52 hits, driving in 25 runs, includ-
stop Austin Allain (Weston, ing nine doubles and ﬁve home
Mass./Weston), senior right runs.

hander Dan Kagey (Marietta, Allain eamed second team

Ga./Lovett) and sophomore
second baseman Scott
Gosselink (Austin, Texas/St.

honors for the second—straight
season after hitting .304 with 21
RBI and 38 runs. Kagey went 6-3

Stephen’s Episcopal) were all from the mound with a 3.98 ERA
named to the second team. and 58 strikeouts in 72.1 innings
Dean, who is making his pitched.

third appearance on the First-

shouldn’t have much trouble dealing with the Heat, and they have don’t like to take the easy pick. Having said this, I feel that with the Team Aii'0DAC Squads W33 1
already gone up 1-0. So assuming the Pacers and Pistons face off in the addition of Rasheed Wallace, the Pistons have the talent and depth of harried the trip Piteher iii the .0
Eastern conference finals, who can we expect to advance? And, more a Western conference team. Also, tliey’re dominating the Nets like a eeriferehee after Setting the R
importantly, will this team have any chance against the West’s cham- West team does and will actually make the finals interesting this year. I School reeerd fer Wins ih 3 Sea‘ U"
pion? The Pacers won the season series 3-1 and Jermaine O’N_eal pro- don’t, however, think that they can beat the Spurs. San Antonio, as 50h With 3 9'2 0‘/eraii mark this 9’ You Want t0 go
vides a strong inside presence, but the Pistons finished the season as previously mentioned, has the experience and the momentum from a Season: iheiiidirig 3 Seheei R to  School,
the hottest team in basketball except for the Heat, and the duo of the series win against the Lakers and should capture another title and ﬁ- reeerd three Sh1it0iitS- in 3 g) ygu have your B_A_’
Wallaces aren’t alone, with a supporting cast that can handle the depth nally make it out of the shadow of Los Angeles. 5eh°°i‘ree°rd 88-2 ihhihgs E but the only
" 5 science course
hi k: h d 1 3 you’vetaken
t S W66 S SC 6 U 6 ll)’ ,hasbeen
in Physics for Poets.
Wednesday May 12 Thursday May 13 Friday May 14 Saturday May 15 Sunday May 16 1 we have
1
° W Tennis vs. Gustavus 0 W Tennis at NCAA’s-- ° W Tennis at NCAA’s-- 0 W Tennis at NCAA’s-- 0 OPEN lb a program
Adolphus (NCAA)-- TBA TBA TBA V 3 for you.
10:00 - M Lax at NCAA’s-- 3
TBA --
n
‘L
4'U
3
University Cleaners ‘*2 coiu..ti.u........,»,
Ov E 7 North Jefferson Street E  iii P°5ti’_a‘°aia“‘e"t" _
. 3 Premedical Program is

SPORTS?

PWRITE FOR THE

PHI!
458-4060

Lexington, VA 24450
463-3622

University Cleaners offers full service storage for all
your winter clothing and bedding. Each item is cleaned
and stored, ready for pick up in the fall. Regular
cleaning charges apply and are billed to your home
address in July. Storage is free.

It couldn’t be easier, bring in your clothing this spring
and pick it up in the fall, clean, pressed, and ready to
wear. Eliminates the need to carry it all home over the
summer. Call or stop in today for addictional
information. '

Free Summer Storage of all winter clothes and bedding

America’s oldest and best.

Discover why our
graduates have an 85%
placement rate in American
medical schools. Call:

(800) 8904127

Your
Greens

gspremed@colunibia.edu
www.columbiaedu/cu/gslpostbacc

C o LU MB IA
School of General Studies

Pinheadsl Report to the
J~school comp lab or
prepare to get iced —

BdM

 

Generals with a .380 batting av- ' '

 

 

 

PAGE 6

THE

rHE .lil‘;\l(}~’l'EAt PHY

AST WORD

  

MONDAY, MAY 10, 2004

Fratlord praises Honor System, questions changes

Spoiled Students with new found power following Spring Term Success should not be so rash in using it

This school ain’t perfect. Neither are any of its
students, faculty, and staff. So can’t we all just agree on this

point and move on?

This year, it seems like the W&L boat has never
stopped rocking. Between this EC business, the demise (and
rebirth!) of Buffalo Creek, the fraternity suspensions, and the
Spring Term issue, there’s just been one thing after another to
keep the uproar constant. Meanwhile, we’ve all lost sight of
how special this place is and why we love it like we do.

, As students at W&L, we are overwhelmingly spoiled. I
can’t think of another college environment where students have
as much as freedom as we do. What’s more, we take it all for

granted.

You couldn’t ask me to count all the times I’ve punted
tests during Exam Week, or how many times I’ve left things
lying around on campus for weeks at a time. Seriously, can you
imagine a W&L without these peculiarities? I can’t.

We know how good we’ve got it. That’s why there’s
been so much uproar when we sense that things are slipping

away.

The Spring Term madness is the best example of all — I
don’t think anyone could have estimated that the backlash
would get as intense as it did. The students saw that one of
our favorite things about the school was in jeopardy, and did

whatever we needed to do to keep it.

well.

these people.

So lets’ move on, shall we?

Now, in the aftermath, we are fully aware of our power
as students at this school. But things are getting out of hand.
We can make a difference, but I think we can go overboard as

Like I said at first, nobody’s perfect. The EC reps
aren’t perfect. And many will agree that even the Honor
System has its flaws and uncertainties, but no more than how
every person in this community has their own imperfections.

Just because you can make a difference doesn’t
necessitate that change is needed. Change can be good, but
apparently it can also be addicting.

It’s frustrating to hear students who, in one breath,
blast the administration for trying to change the school, and
then, in the next breath,‘complain about some aspect of W&L
which they would change if they had a choice. How do you

justify the hypocrisy of worrying about the “branding” of
W&L while trying to modify, adjust, or eradicate some of its
most crucial traditions? It just seems silly.

In my four years, W&L has managed to exist in some

Case in point — the EC situation. With every passing State of
day, it seems our Executive Committee is increasingly If 3 n S i ti 0 I1 .
disparaged, and our Honor System is increasingly attacked. time, We’Ve
That’s funny — I thought we liked how good we have it at this a1C0h01 policy,
school. I thought we president, a
appreciated the ABSOLUT FRATLORD benefits of a new Greek
the Honor System. many Cases, a
And I thought TIM SMITH ‘04 we elected many of our

traditions. Yet,
W&L has

perpetual
During this
just because you can make had a new
a difference doesn’t “cw
new Commons,

necessitate that change is ]ine_up, and, in

needed new stance on
T S oldest
[M MITH miraculously, ‘
managed to

emerge unscathed and remains essentially the same school it has
been. Sometimes change has been necessary, sometimes it’s been
arbitrary, but it’s happened. Now get over it.

I love this school. It’s why I hope to work for the

university next year. And I believe that most of the students here
love this school too. That’s why many are so worried and so
frantic about the changes that have taken place. But it’s time to
stop worrying. It’s still W&L. We still love it.
Just because we can make changes to our school,

doesn’t mean we should go overboard — in the long run, we might
not enjoy what we come up with.

Co—ed speaking outs would solve problem of sexual assault

This past Monday, May 3rd, Panhellenic
sponsored “Day of Dialogue,” a program designed
to bring together women on campus to discuss
pertinent issues affecting female students. Last
year, as my sorority Chapter Treasurer, I was re-
quired to attend “Something of Value,” the previ-
ous years’ equivalent, and was amazed by the dif-
ferent perceptions regarding prevalent problems
on campus, such as eating disor-
ders, alcoholism, depression,
stress, etc. This year, the program
began with a speech from Dean
Watkins, as well as Dr. Jane
Horton, who presented the statistics resulting from
the Health Center survey that went out to students
just before exams last term.

While I don’t particularly consider myself the
‘f ’ word (and by ‘f’ word I mean ‘feminist’ . . . gasp!)
I do consider myself to be militantly anti—ridicu-
lous, and the statistics which reﬂect widespread
victimizations of women on campus are emphati-
cally ridiculous.

Forty—four percent of the entire female stu-
dent population responded to the survey and here
are some of the reported results from the past year:
Four percent experienced verbal threats for sex
against their will; a shocking 22.6% experienced
sexual touching against their will; 8.5% experienced
attempted sexual penetration against their will (at-
tempted rape); and 2.6% experienced sexual pen-
etration against their will (rape), none of which were
reported to the university. Feminist or no feminist
these behaviors are unacceptably, inexcusably ri-
diculous. End of story.

These are the facts of the survey. As far as
perceptions go, being the stubborn, independent,
and at times, overly strong willed person that I am,
I was rather shocked to discover how rampant these
behaviors are. Worse yet, while these statistics
seem to portray helpless female victims being raped
in a dark alley by an alpha—male aggressor, the situ-
ation is apparently, much more complicated and
not nearly as simple.

For example, frat boys have threatened to
ball girls from fraternities if they did not have sex,
essentially destroying their social lives. Now, if this
does reﬂect behaviors that have occurred, I’m not

 

sure who is more pathetic in this situation: the boy ,

who is so desperately horny that he has to threaten

_ THE NAKED TRUTH
 COURTNEY PERRY ‘04

girls in order to get them to have sex with him; the
girl who is so insecure and whose self-esteem is
so nonexistent that she would actually submit to
such abuse (and yes, it is considered abuse in a
court of law) rather than face even the possibility
of social alienation; or the frat brothers who would
dare support the idea of collectively balling a girl
for merely exercising the right to protect her own
body.

Initially, I could not under-
stand why girls would not report
sexual assaults to the University,
or preferably, to the Police, but
was soon reminded of two past cases in which
chrages were brought before the University rather
unsuccessfully. The resulting mortiﬁcation was so
extreme and uncomfortable that the girls involved
had to leave school. This was just three years ago.

Fortunately, a lot has changed at W&L since
I first arrived in Fall, 2000. At the time, nearly all
leadership positions on campus were held by men.
Currently, all student judicial bodies are headed
by women and the Dean of Students is female.
Times have changed at W&L, and so I think it’s
time for a bit of cultural perspective.

There is no doubt that the social hierarchy
and one’s status within that hierarchy plays a
huge role in campus culture. In my opinion, it is
this culture that allows for the aforementioned
situations to occur, as exhibited by the extreme
measures to which one (particularly if one is fe-
male) is willing to resort in order to keep oiie’s
social status intact. While I have never particu-
larly agreed with this culture, I must accept that
this is the way the campus works. That’s not to
say that one can’t ﬁght ﬁre with ﬁre. After all,
what is a large factor in guys’ Rush? Girls. What
makes a party, a party? Girls. We have a lot more
power than we’re aware of, especially if we were
to join forces.

I admit I’m taking a chance here, but I think
that, because of all the pro-female changes that
have been made on campus, we now have the re-
sources and the attitude to deal with sexual as-
sault on campus and eliminate such inappropriate
behaviors. In the past, girls have been too afraid
to report such crimes because of the resulting so-
cial stigmas, and the chauvinistic attitude of blam-
ing the victims, but, these obstacles are certainly

~-.3. .- .-
,A' . n, “ -.

. . . _ ;.,
O .. ‘T. 3.?’ > ”.‘

PHOTO COUTES 0rhz'ta.rtamre 1a.m

GIRL POWER! If the Spice Girls were sexually assaulted, they would report the incident. You should, too.

in the process of being overcome, if they have not
been surpassed already.

However, we’ll never know unless some of
the victims are brave enough to come forward and
report these crimes. Perhaps it would only take one
strong female to lead the way and tell her story
before others would gain the courage to do the
same. We can’t stop what we don’t acknowledge,
and I strongly feel that our campus today cares
about its students and genuinely wants to stop
these crimes. Victims should seek help through
Dean Watkins (that’s what’s great about a small
school, you can actually talk to the Dean herself),
or Dr. Jane Horton in the Health Center.

While I have never been sexually assaulted
or threatened, I feel my social status on this cam-
pus would be a small price to pay to ensure the
safety and awareness of hundreds of other women
on campus now, and the thousands who are to
come in future years.

As for the guys, I apologize to all the real gentle-
men out there who are reading this and are possibly
just as shocked and appalled as most girls were. It down-
right sucks that your sex must suffer through the bad
rep resulting ﬁom a minority of ﬁlthy nasty pigs.

As for the women, ladies, we have a choice
that is ours and ours alone to make. Let’s hear it for
the girls.

 

phi@w/u.edu

Q Beta’s done. The Big Four is now accepting
applications for next year.

Q Joel on being a conforrnist: “I’m not a con-
forrnist just because I wear Rainbow sandals! You’re
the conforrnist— you have an arm; everyone has
arms!” ' ‘

Q Someone needs to call child’s services. I think
a parent left his child to live in the third ﬂoor of the
Commons to annoy many.

(1) To the person who submitted a Quick Hit last
week about that dude’s blue hair: Are your high-
lights “natura ” or did it just say “natura ” on the
box?

Q Mike Homing has never won a game of Mario
Party in his life.

(1) Does TFC stand for Tubgirl Fan Club?
Q If you haven’t listened to David W.

Jacobsen’s new album, “Cubicle Wonderland,”
you are really missing out!

   

Q What did you do for your Mother yester-
day?

Q Don’t forget to reset your clocks and change
the batteries in your fire alarms next weekend.

Q Congratulations to William T. Brooks for writ-
ing a BamesandNoble.com number one bestseller.

Q e. e. cummings did not intend to forego capi-
talization. it was a pub1isher’s decision.

(I) Cosmo is such a raunchy magazine.

Q Sprees are bad for my teeth.

Q Overheard this.weekend outside FIJI: “This
grass is really comfortable, I may make a nest here.”

Q Yahoo! Skyy Vodka now comes in a low-carb
version!

(1) Today was a major day in exploration:

1497, Amerigo Vespucci left from Cadiz for
his first voyage to the New World.

1503, Christopher Columbus discovered the
Cayman Islands and named them Las Tortugas af-
ter the turtles he found there.

1534, Jacques Cartier discovered Newfound-
land.

Q Always look on the bright side of life.

Q The men’s lacrosse team faces Messiah Col-
lege on Sunday at Wilson Field. Go cheer on the
Gennies in the second round of the NCAA tournie!

Q Thomas Worthy talks a lot.
(1) Too much work, I have yet to see Goshen.

Q Coincidence? Stonewall Jackson died today
in 1863 and today is Confederate Memorial Day in
both Carolinas.

Q Did anyone else see Phi editor Caley Ander-
son haunting the halls of the Warner Center wear-
ing a black belt, a martial arts uniform, and carrying
a bunch of blunt weaponry? Apparently, it doesn’t
matter to Caley whether the pen or the sword is
mightier.

Q The buggers are coming? Must be a
Velasquez thing.

Q Coach Joe Lyles is ending his umpteen-year
reign as Club Sports Director. He shall be missed.

Q I saw some Iraqi prisoners being tortured on
the news and I thought I recognized some Beta
pledges.

   

Q Raked over the coals? Burning the candle at
both ends? Spread too thinly? Try Pilates!

Q I’m a lumberjack and I’m okay, I sleep all
night and I work all day.

Q Can Bluegrass really ever be red—hot and pro-
gressive? ~

‘Q Congratulations to the LCA Ultimate Frisbee
Team and good luck in the ﬁnal game tonight against
Phi Delt.

Q Aaargghh! It is actually humanly possible
for a bullpen to be as bad the Cleveland Indians’
is? '

Q So, we either have cold and rainy or
blisteringly hot? Not to be a whiner, but what hap-
pened to 75 and sunny?

Q The Executive Committee is searching for a
conscience and a backbone. Apply through e-Re-
cruiting.

Q Fear the turtle!
Q Submit your anonymous Quick Hits (please,

please, please) and tales of Spring Term love and
lust to phi@wlu.edu.

  
   

 

  

