 
  
  

I

  

Arch
5378.755
@552
v./J7
no.4
c . 2..

 

   

THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

i.
T ° t t
A *
STREET
CLSED
pt
. BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN ing the station. Old brick is not
' J, MANAGING EDITOR as strong as modern brick. Mod-
~ em masonry work had to be done
A 121-year-old, 375 ton to ensure a safe moving day.
Lexingtonlandniarkfoundanew Fifty-eight tons of steel and
K home last Wednesday. The Lex- wood combined to support the

ﬁe

ington Train Station, built in 1883,
moved about 400 feet into its new
location in the Gaines Overﬂow
lot. The move cost Washington
and Lee approximately $500,000.

The move has taken
months of planning. Erik

~ Eshleman, program manager for

I the Washington and Lee project
pointed out the difﬁculty of mov-

station during its move. Four-
teen dollies, each containing
eight tires, held the station as it
was pulled by two special tow-
ing trucks across McLaughlin
Street.

Precautions were taken to
guarantee the safety of the his-
torical features of the interior of
the building. The interior wood

(1 across str

wainscoting that paneled the
former segregated waiting room
has been taken down and num-
bered. The doors and other or-
narnentations have also been re-
moved.

“We wanted to move it to
a credible place,” said Tom

Contos, University Architect.

The Gaines Parking Lot actually
sits on the old railway line.
Contos said that the University
was considering putting some
salvage rail on one side and park-
ing on the other.

The University plans on
bringing new life to the train sta-
tion which last served passengers
in 1969.. The primary purpose of
the station over the past 30 years
has been storage. Vice President
for Administration, Joe Grasso,
said the best use for the building
would be a place where groups
from the University and the com-
munity could come together. If
the right buyer came along, the
University would consider sell-
ing it as well.

   

NG-TUM

The rtndent none of Washington nnn’ In Uninenth Jttttt 7897

R

PEI

et, arking a problem ai

A-SAC afﬁ'ms Beta’s
one-year suspension

It BY KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

. . . _ On Friday May 14, the Student Affairs Committee resolved that

‘L Beta will in fact be suspended from campus next year. The SAC re-

0 viewed the case submitted by the IFC and determined that Beta had

performed incidents of hazing including “repeated forced consump-

tions of concoctions intended to cause nausea, exposure to the ele-

A - ments, and the forced consumption of alcohol.” Beta is now referring
their case to President Burish.

After a lengthy appeal process, the case went before the SAC
last week, said Dean Watkins. Members of the SAC reviewed every
aspect of the accusal submitted by the IFC. In response to those who

' .1 question other fraternities engaging in the same activities, the SAC
responded that “Contrary to what some think, and even what some
have written in the student newspaper reports, there are no reported
hazing incidents as egregious as those admitted by members of Beta.”

, ‘ . However, the SAC also wrote that “The Beta situation is a most
unfortunate one. There are no winners in it—— neither the pledges, the
upperclass students, the House Corporation, the national organiza-
tion, nor the University.” Alumni have been helpful as well in recom-
mending Beta to be allowed back on campus as soon as possible.

A “Our alumni, faculty advisor, and general ﬁaternity are all very dedi-
cated and have been a huge support throughout this process,” says

Seth Martin, current President of Beta. Beta’s advisor, Prof. Chuck

Phillips, was not available for questions or comments.

Hazing is defined as any activity, voluntary or involuntary, im-
posed on pledges. The SAC works to promote all life at W&L, includ-
ing our current Greek System. They are working to further a “a healthy
and vibrant Greek community.” After reviewing all incidents of hazing
submitted this winter, they have determined that Beta is the only fra-
-4 ternity to have acted in such an extreme manner. However, appeals to

the president and the work of many concerned with Beta returning to
campus may result in Beta being a part of life at W&L again. The SAC
believes that this response to incidents of hazing is concurrent with
actions of the SAC in the past.

 

VVith the Gaines Overflow
lot and the Lenfest Center Fan
Lot gone, students are con-
cerned about the already tight
parking situation. The Univer-
sity commissioned a study on
parking last month. Grasso said

EC cuts loose Trident

BY ERIN JULIUS
EDITOR—IN-CHIEF

In a press release, printed at
right, the Executive Committee re-
leased itself of any responsibility for
The Triz1ent’s ﬁnancial situation.

“We wanted to make it very
clear that anything that happens is
between them and the Business Of-
ﬁce and not with the EC,” said EC

-President Marie Trimble. The EC

wrote the press release because,
“one of my initiatives as president
was better communication between
the EC and student body,” Trimble
said “Iknewtherewas thepotential
thattheBusinessOﬂicewillshutThe
Twnfs account and I wanted to
inform students,” she said

The EC wanted to inform stri-
dents because ‘Rve believe the Busi-
ness Ofﬁce will take action in some
way,” said Justin Arnold, EC Secre-
tary.

In 2002, The Trident, normally
independently ﬁnanced, asked the
Fgrecutive Committee for fimds in or-
der to get out from under increasing
debt. When The Trident again asked
forfundsin2003,theEC,“gavethem
thebeneﬁtofthedoubt,”Tiimblesaid

Intheirrequest, The Tridentalso
presentedalistofwaysinwhich they
could reduce production costs and

make money, including increases in .

subscriptions and a reduced nurn—
ber of pages, she said

In their second request, The
Trident made a presentation repre-
senting that they would be able to

pull themselves out of debt with
the request they made, Arnold said.

“They haven’t done any of
these things they said they would
do,” Trimble said, “and they’ve had
more than enough time.”

“We’ve been trying to ad-
dress it, and we addressed it quite
successfully this winter,” Walotsky
said. “By the end of next year, it
would be very reasonable to think
we could be out of debt”

“We are currently taking the
appropriate measures to alleviate
our ﬁnancial situation,” said Donny
Banks, The Trident Business Man-
agen ‘ ’

Walotsky said that The Tn’-
dent averages $400 in advertising
revenue each issue, which is, “sig-
niﬁcantly up this year.” According
to a Business Oﬂice report printed
on May 6, The Trident was $5372
in debt

The Business Ofﬁce con-
tacted the EC, out of concern for
The Trident’s continued debt, said
Justin Arnold, “the Business Of-
ﬁce said we have a situation, what
do you want us to do.”

According to Walotsky, The
Trident is requesting that the Busi-
ness Ofﬁce carry over the debt to
next year so the paper can continue
to operate.

Should anything happen
the Executive Committee is trying
to,“clarifythatitwasn’ttheECshut-
ting them down, but their own ﬁ-
nancial mismanagement,” said
Trimble.

that in the Fall there will be new
or altered parking lots.

The plan to make the train
depot a community center is go-
ing to be postponed until at least
August 2006. The train station
will now be outﬁtted with plumb-

(*7?

VOLUME CVIII, NO. 4

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

 

' PHOTO COURTESY PROFESSOR TED DEIANEY
MAKING ROOM. The train station was moved to the Gaines parking lot to make room for a new building.

ing, electricity, and telecommu-
nications equipment. It will
serve as the construction head-
quarters for the new 60,000
square foot art and music build-
ing projected to open in August
2006.

A press release from

Dear W&L Community,

academic year.

money for future allocations.

Ofﬁce decisions.
Sincerely,

THE EXECUTTVE COMMITTEE
ofTHE STUDENT BODY

According to the rriission statement of The Trident, the
paper has been independently run and financed for the past
decade. However, over the past two academic years, The Tri-
dent has accumulated a mounting debt, and as a result, re-
quested ﬁnancial assistance during Executive Committee Bud-
get Allocations in the VVinter Term of 2002-03. The Committee
responded to their request with an allocation of $3,240.

In the Fall Term of 2003-04, The Trident once again asked
for ﬁnancial assistance. At the time, The Trident was $8,921 in
debt and requested $15,000 in order to reduce debt and expand
the paper. The Trident stated that this was a special request,
and that the paper did not plan to ask for money in the future.
The Committee allocated $5,000 to The Trident with the under-
standing that the paper would increase subscriptions, collect
more advertising revenue, and eliminate their debt during this

The Trident has not substantially improved its ﬁnancial
situation and is currently $6,788 in debt. The Executive Com-
mittee has tried repeatedly to aid The Tridentby responding to
its budget requests, while viewing their requests in light of
other student organization needs. However, The Tridenfs cur-
rent debt is continuing to adversely affect every student orga-
nization at this University because The Tridenfs bills are paid
with money from the Student Activities Fund, resulting in less

It is the ofﬁcial position of the Executive Committee that
it is The Tridenfs responsibility to remedy its ﬁnancial prob-
lems directly with the University Business Ofﬁce. Therefore,
any further actions affecting The T rident’s ﬁnancial standings,
such as the closure of the paper, will be the result of Business

The Executive Committee of the Student Body: Marie Trimble,
Cristin Nunez, Justin Arnold, Marc Granger, Dannel Duddy,
Thomas Worthy, Noble Stafford, Wheeler Sparks, Charlie Yates,
Lane Morgan, and David Colman.

 

Nabors holds sixth annual day of service

 

A
Panel explores Brown
‘ BY KAELA HARMON the leadership that Washington
SENIOR STAFF WRITER and Lee produces an ideal per-
son to speak on the desegrega-

- . Its been 50 years since the tion process.

1, Supreme Court made the decision Other panelists include
inthe BrownvBoard of Education William Perry, a former school
case and changed the face of principal from Waynesboro,

. American education. Washington former NAACP Vice President
V’ and Lee is celebrating that land- from Roanoke, Reverend E.T.
'   mark decision with a panel discus- Burton and several other citizens
-1 sion on integrationthatwill feature from the surrounding area who
W&La1umnusandformerV1rginia played a role in integrating
GovemorLinwoodHolton. schools throughout the state.

The panel was organized
‘ by Professor Theodore DeLaney
of the History Department, and

Bach panelists has a unique per-
spective to bring and will share
reﬂections on how integration im-

is part of a grant he recently re- pacted their community.
_ V ceived from the Virginia Founda- The discussion will be held
*  tion for the Humanities. Profes- today Monday the 17 at 7:30 p.m.

sor DeLaney said that former
Governor Holt was an appropri-
ate decision for several reasons.
_Holt was the first Republican

in Lee Chapel. It follows a series
of ﬁlms on desegregation that
have been shown every Wednes-
day for the past three weeks.

i ‘L governor in Virginia in the 20"‘ While the movies were not very
century but he was a moderate well attended Professor DeLaney
on race. Inthe 1970s, he decided is hoping that the panel discus-
to take a stand against segrega- sion will bring out a number of

. 1 tion and set an example for his people. “I wouldbevery pleased

 

state by enrolling his children in
an all black school. Professor
DeLaney felt that these actions
made Holt a perfect example of

to look out into the audience and
see a large number of people in
the audience but for now I'm
keeping my ﬁngers crossed.”

projects.

mates as a way to honor him.

to be walked.”

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee students showed the Lexington com-
munity their generosity Saturday afternoon during Nabor’s Ser-
vice Day. Over 200 students signed up for the event. On the
actual service day, which began with a kick-off in the Commons,
about 180 students took part in 20 different service-oriented

The SPCA, Mayﬂower nursing home, Rockbridge Area
Transport Services and Habitat for Humanity are just some of the
area agencies where students worked.

“I was very satisﬁed with the people who came and how the
day turned out,” said Nabors Service Day co-chair Jessica
Hunsinger, ’07. “We made a pretty big contribution.”

Tom Borda, ’06, co-chaired the event with Hunsinger.

This year marked the sixth annual service day,’ held in
memory of Jonathan N abors. Nabors, who would have graduated
in 2002, died in a car wreck his freshman year. The N abors Service
League and Nabors Service Day were conceived by his class-

Jenny Hau, ‘O7, worked at Arc Acres, a group home for the
mentally retarded. Hau and her group painted a barn and did
upkeep at the Arc Acres farm. “I’m already involved in some
community service here, but I wanted to do Nabors to get in-
volved outside of the W&L community," Hau said.

Liz Juterbock, ’06, said she always participates in service.
She worked at the SPCA because, “there werelots of sad puppies

“I like animals . . . my friend signed me up and I’m really glad
I did it,” she said, “I had a great time.”

Nabors’ parents were in Lexington for the day, and toured
the service sites with Hunsinger.

HRISTINE GRAY HE ' . G—TUM I-H

ANIMAL LOVERS. Sophomore Lizjuterbock walks a dog from the SPCA
for Nabors Service Day . Over 200 students participated this year at 20

service projects.

  

JAMES ti. i.E‘t’~“r3lllRN UBWARY

wee-:moroNaiEuN%W

‘l r-iwvw.~.'rnM VA 24450

MAY 1939"“

PAGE 2



Registration for sections a must

Registration begins tomorrow. We
at the Phi want to know why we can not
register for speciﬁc sections of a class.

When we register for classes, we
tell the registrar via the intemet what
we want to take. Then we anxiously
wait for the moment schedules are avail-
able on-line. The problem with this sys-
tem is that every student at W&L is
unique. Some of us here at the Phi, for
example, are night people while fewer
of us are morning people. Different
people perform better at certain times
of the day.

Since we do not know what sec-
tion we are in until right before classes
start, we have no time to change them.
Often, professors will not even allow stu-
dents to change class sections. Some of
us have tried to change sections, but were
told that we have to stay in that 8 a.m.
class. Others who perform better in the
morning get stuck in 3-5 p.m. classes. By
the time you get out of class in the winter
it is already dark.

If registration changed to allow a
choice of section, students could not com-
plain about not making it to class because
it was too early or too late. They also
could not complain about the professor
they are taking because they hand-picked

Competition among faculty mem-
bers to attract students would only im-
prove teaching at Washington and Lee.
For example, if no one is registering for
Professor Jones’s section, he can ask the
popular Professor Smith what he can do
to improve his teaching and attract more
students.

We believe that a registration sys-
tem where a student registers not only
for a class, but also a section is the best
alternative. Students who want to be in
the 8 a.m. classes will be able to take
them and those who want to take all
their classes in the afternoon can as
well. This market based approach
would be more effective than a thou-
sand class evaluations.

((

  
 

te of the Week

H

“We are 900 miles over the moon.”

~Coldplay lead singer Chris
Martin, on the birth of his and his
wife’s (Gwyneth Paltrow) daughter,
Apple Blythe Allison Martin,

mi: Rm G-TUM PHI

 
  
   

CALEYANDERSON

OPINIONSEDIIOR
andcrs0nc@wluedu

PINIONS

Honor System nearly perfect

A surprising number of students have raised
their voices in favor of reappraisal of our cherished
Honor System. Unfortunately, but not
unsurprisingly, most of what has been written and
said has added heat, not light, to an already ﬁery
debate. Hopefully, increased interest in the work-
ing of the Honor System will lead to a renewed un-
derstanding of its counter—intuitive aspects, be-
cause all the calls for “fundamental” reform betray
a terrible misunderstanding of the system.

Some students, who neglected to even at-
tend the recent open forum, regard the Honor Sys-
tem and the student body with depressing pessi-
mism. Whatever their motivations, they imagine
secret trials in which students are expelled on a
whim and strike at the system’s most basic under-
pinnings. Other students have addressed their com-
plaints to the administration and seemingly forget
the most alluring feature of the Honor System—~
that it is entirely student run.

What we have learned so far is this: many
students are confused by the EC’s recent actions
but, most likely, increased discussion of the sys-
tem has answered their questions. A small minority
of the student body is deeply inimical to both the

EC and the Honor System and wants to overhaul ,

both, but is going nowhere. The truth is the Honor
System is near perfect in its design and the EC has
worked mightily to protect the accused and please
the student body.

Criticisms of the system fall into three main
categories. The first cites the EC for a lack of ac-
countability and demands that the EC release
greater information about the proceedings of honor
trials. Calls for greater accountability arise from an
underappreciation of the measures the EC takes to
ensure the conﬁdentiality of honor trials. Most
investigations do not go to trial

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

STEVE MARINOS / The Ringtum

ACCOUNTABLE. The EC has made great strides to be more accountable, such as therecerit open forum.

the accused and provide the student body with
greater information about honor trials.

Moreover, the EC has made signiﬁcant
efforts to provide students with more information
about its proceedings. For example, all EC commu-
nications are signed with the names of every mem-
ber and the vote tallies in non—honor matters are
published in campus notices and on the web. Also,
honor postings now have greater detail, the EC
held an open forum and is planning a platform de-
bate for next year’s freshmen elections.

The second category of criticism hits the
EC for being insufﬁciently representative. The fact
is, though, when the EC sits in judgment, it is NOT a

representative body. No jury or

and the vast majority of trials end RIGHT OF THE AISLE court, elected or appointed, is.
in acquittals. Naturally, no student ‘ When they vote in honor trials, EC
wants to be under a cloud of sus— BRETT KIRWAN  members, like the justices of a state

picion for the rest of his W&L ca-

reer. Even if a student is convicted and chooses to
withdraw, it is essential that his identity and the
details of his case be. strictly guarded. The lack of
publicity and the vagueness of honor postings work
to ensure this conﬁdentiality.

Some students have called for the vote
totals, or even the way in which each EC member
voted, to be released. Currently, the totals are known
only to the EC president and vice-president and no
one but the individual EC member knows how he
voted. No one has yet devised a system to protect

supreme court, rely on their experi—
ence and good judgment and do not attempt to de-
cide as their constituents necessarily would. On the
other hand, when the EC is involved in more tradi-
tional student government functions, it is a repre-
sentative body and seeks, for example, to distribute
student activities monies as most students would
like to see them distributed. Those who insist that
the EC “represent” the students when making deci-
sions in honor trials or accuse the EC of perverting
the students’ current understanding“ of honor rriis—

‘undefstand this impo'rtant‘distinction. 

The third criticism, by far the most de-
pressing, is not of the EC, but of the Honor System
itself. When students call for replacing the single
sanction with a graduation system of punishments,
they call for the end of the Honor System. What is
a degree of honor? Similarly, can someone be 32
percent honest or 56 percent loyal? Imagine, for

example, that someone is convicted of plagiarism‘ I - f ' A

under a graduated system of punishments but re-
mains a student at W&L. What professor would
then permit take—home exams, unproctored ﬁnals

or group work? If a thief were allowed to remain at ‘ ' - -

school, would security leave the buildings open all
night, would students leave their doors unlocked
and their possessions unguarded in the library or

the D-Hall? Without a single sanction, the Honor _

System falls apart.

True to form, those who have cried most
loudly for reform have failed to offer any solutions.
The Honor System may be in need of tweaking.
Perhaps guilty verdicts should require unanimity
or the judicial and administrative functions of the
EC should be split into two separate groups. The
students who single-mindedly demand change,
blinded by their hatred for the Honor System and
the EC, are as devoid of ideas for reform as their
criticisms are of merit.

One hundred ﬁfty-plus years of practice
have given us a great" Honor System and time will
show that the case for change is overblown.

Resolution to boycott public schools lacks merit

I recently read a news article

   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
     
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
    
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

  

Editor in Chief
Managing Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Acting Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Erin Julius

Chris Lauderman
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Brett T. Kirwan
Corbin Blackford
John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Vanessa Amess
Catherine Swan
Alexa Moutevelis
Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Rob Rain

Leggett Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Business Managers

Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir
Distribution Dir

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed '
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington’ and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

from the Associated Press that struck
me as being completely absurd. Two
prominent Southern Baptists, T.C.
Pinckney and Bruce Shortt, co-
authored a resolution to be brought
before the National Convention urg-
ing all Christian parents to home-
school their children or else enroll
them in Christian schools. Calling U.S.
public schools that claim to be reli-
giously—neutIal “God-

some conspiracy among the other
23% to gain control over all of the
public schools and brainwash chil-
dren into defying God?

I can only assume that the au-
thors of the resolution are referring
to things like the teaching of evolu-
tion and scientiﬁc explanations such
as the Big Bang Theory for the cre-
ation of the universe as a couple of
the “Godless” parts of the educa-

tional offerings.

less” and “anti-Chris— THE BIG PICTURE , Also, explicitly
tian,” the resolution ‘ stated, is an ex-
appealed to the moral ANNE FINLEY  treme aversion to

obligation of parents
to decide how their kids would be edu-
cated instead of leaving the decision
in the government’s hands.

The resolution even saw ﬁt to

state that “just as it would be foolish '

for the warrior to give his arrows to
his enemies, it is foolish for Christians
to give their children to be trained in
schools run by the enemies of God.”
So nowlschools are not only “anti-
Christian,” but they are actually run
by enemies of God? The realities
about our country simply do not sup-
port such preposterous statements.
Although the number has somewhat
declined in recent years, the Ameri-
can Religious Identiﬁcation Survey
still shows a whopping 77% of Ameri-
cans identifying themselves as Chris-
tian. Are they suggesting there is

public schools

“adopting curricula and policies
teaching the homosexual lifestyle is
acceptable”. I consider myself an ex-
tremely open-rriinded individual, but
try as I might, I honestly cannot find
the logic behind these baseless fears.
Vlfith regards to the teaching of
evolution and other non-creationistic
ideas in public schools, I cannot see
why the Southern Baptist Convention
or other denominations can or should
see anything to fear. I believe that
every person has the right to be edu-
cated and presented with all available
scientiﬁc and historical facts. As the
church and state are and must remain
separate, the churches have the right
to instruct in moral and religious prin-
ciples and truths while the schools
have the same obligation and right to

teach according to scientiﬁc and his-
torical data. No religion should be
scared of letting kids make fully—in—
formed decisions about something as
personal as faith.

And the claim that public
schools could be called “anti~Chris-
tian” is simply preposterous. Cre-
ationism, for starters, continues to be
taught in many areas of the country.
And when evolution is taught, at least
in my personal experience, teachers
almost always put out a disclaimer that
you don’t have to believe them but
you just have to know the material for
the tests. Our country, quite simply,
is in great part dominated by Chris-
tianity. You don’t see American
schools teaching African, East—Asian,
or Native American creation myths for
instance. For the most part, Judeo-
Christian values are interwoven into
all areas of society, including politics
and education. I do not mean to say
that this is a problem or that it should
be changed, but simply that the claim
that U.S. education is “Godless” could
not be farther from the truth.

As for the stated concern that
public schools teach the acceptabil-
ity of the homosexual lifestyle, why
must this be such a problem? First of
all, why is tolerance of other people
who are fundamentally just like us in
every way but sexual preference con-
sidered un—Godly or Un-Christian? Is

A point of legalizing sarne-sex marriage

     
  
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
     
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
    
  
  

not the basic precept to love one an-
other and show compassion? But re-
gardless of whether teaching accep-
tance goes against the teachings of
the church, the authors of the resolu-
tion and all Christians simply have,
once again, nothing to fear. As two
renowned visitors to our campus this
year both said, (James Carville at
Mock Convention and Judy Shepard
in her presentation against hate
crimes), tolerance of gays even to the

will not threaten a strong marriage.
And it follows that it should have
nothing to do with shaking a strong
faith.

Faith has nothing to fear from a
liberal education. And nothing radi-
cal has to be done to keep the faith in
U.S. education because it never left.
One of the authors of the resolution
says that if all Baptist parents would
comply with the essential—boycott of
public schools the entire system
would probably collapse and “I think
that would be one of the ﬁnest things
that can happen in the United States”. A _ -
Well, I for one say the public school
system is ﬁne the way it is and should V
not be changed. Christians may make
up a majority in this country, but our
nation was nonetheless founded on
freedom of religion for all and-our -
voices should not speak louder sim-
ply because of greater numbers.

Letter to the Editor

Article blamed women for assault

DearEditor,

I was happy to see that the issue of sexual
assault on our campus was included in last
week’s edition (May 10, 2004) of the Ring Tum
Phi. This is an important issue in need of dis-
cussion among the students. However, after
reading the article in its entirety, I feel as if the
article blames the “victim” for this assault. The
title “Co-ed speaking outs would solve problem
of sexual assault” immediately struck me as vic-
tim blaming.

First, I saw this in your discussion of fraterni-
ties and balling girls for refusal to have sex. The
article reads, “I’m not sure who is more pathetic in
this situation: the boy who is so desperately horny

that he has to threaten girls in order to get them to I

have sex with him: the girl who is so insecure and
whose self—esteem is so nonexistent that she would
actually subrriit to such abuse...” There is abso-
lutely no question of who is more pathetic. The
woman is not pathetic at all. This sounds as if the
woman had fuH control over the situation and could
have just “resisted.” Women should not even be in
this situation in the first place. Your portrayal of the
“girl” in this statement oversirnpliﬁes sexual assault.
If sexual assault could be stopped by “girls” simply
resisting, this would not be a problem.
Furthermore, it seems as if the solution to
sexual assault is simply victims coming out and
sharing their story. Are men not responsible too?

What good will it do if we talk to those who experi— .

enced sexual assault, yet never deal with the ag-

gressors? Yes, this would help awareness, but is
far from the solution. After a woman has been as-
saulted, she feels as if her power has been robbed.

Thus, it is insensitive and ignorant to suggest that -‘ l

a woman will/should voluntarily share her story.
This would essentially re-victirriize the woman, es-
pecially because of our less than understanding
campus regarding assault.

Finally, the picture of the Spice Girls trivializes the

issue of sexual assault. Statistically, one in four women is
a victim of sexual assault in their lifetime. Therefore, most
likely one of them has been assaulted. And how would
we know? Your article just explained the problem of
women not talking about the problem. What makes the
Spice Girls any different from other women?

Sincerely,

Ashley Trice ‘O5

  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
    
  

 

_encompassing

PAGE 3

Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse symp of problems in Iraq

The impact that the pictures from Abu Ghraib
will have on our mission in Iraq can hardly be over-
stated. Why did those soldiers abuse the Iraqis?

The common answer is that they were a few bad
apples; and they ought to be punished for their ac-
tions. This is what George Bush has said. But look at
the pictures. The Americans are smiling and giving the
thumbs up, as a deep—sea ﬁsherman might triumphantly
pose before a 10 foot Marlin once back on dock They
were treating the prisoners just like spoils of victory; as
less than human, as objects. These Americans are not
sadistic sociopaths; for one thing (and lucky for us)
sociopathic tendencies only arise in a minute percent-
age of the overall population. The likelihood that doz-
ens of sociopaths managed to join

THE RlNG~TUM Put

CAIEYANDERSON

« OPINIONS EDIIOR
andersonc@wlu.edu

PINIONS

lions. Oveatenthousandofthesepaidcontractorsareat
workinlraq. Sevexaln1onthsago,Cong1essaskedR1n:rtsfe1d
to tell them what the contractors were doing in Iraq.
Rurnsfeldrepliedwithaletterlisting“allcompaniesinIraq
and their  Rumsfeld failed to mention two con-
tractingﬁrmsthathappenedtobeinterrogatingprisoners
in Abu Ghraib. A few of these employees have rather
colorful backgrounds. South Africans who ﬁred-bombed
Apartheid political opponents’ housesinthe 1980’s. Chil-
eanswhoworkedasPinochet’sarmedthugs.'lhesepeople
arebeingpaidbythePentagontorepresenttheUnited

States in Iraq.
AbuGlnaibistheresu1tofbadplanning. Gmeral
Shinselci wanted real soldiers performing occupation du-
ties, like guarding prisoners. Donald

the same battalion seems auiﬂe un- OUT IN LEFT FIELD Rumsfeld and the neocons had a bet-
likely. Back to the “bad apple” the- ‘ teridea. They thought they could ﬁght
sis of George Bush: So if they’re G1‘-BE CHAPMAN  this war with fewer soldiers, and for

not sociopaths, what are they?

Undisciplined, for one thing; Since the begin-
ning of military operations, the U.S. has imprisoned
about 42,000 Iraqis. Whereto putthem? The U.S. chose
the infamous Abu Ghraib prison, known in Saddam’s
time as the site of particularly gruesome atrocities. The

A Iraqis probably appreciated the symbolic signiﬁcance

as Americans led them into this notorious symbol of
Saddam’s regime. Now, here’s where strategic plan-
ning comes into play. Prisons require lots of guards,
and prisons are part of stabilizing a country after its
leadership has been deposed. General Shinseki said
we needed 200,000 troops for the occupation. Rurnsfeld
said not nearly that many, and Shinseki was ﬁred and
then publicly insulted. So Rumsfeld got his way and
we sent 140,000 troops. Since we haven’t been receiv-
ing the ﬂowers that Rurnsfeld thought we would, we’ ve
had to call up the reserves. In fact, the 372"“ Military
Police Company — the unit that was assigned to man-
age Abu Ghraib ~ is a reserve unit. You may remember
the Anny Reserves from the TV commercials which
advertise, “Only two weeks per year’s commitrnent!”.
These people were sent to manage thousands of unco-
operative prisoners at Abu Ghirab and elsewhere. Their
deployment was extended repeatedly.

Difficult assignments require discipline. Disci-
pline is won through training. These people had, es-
sentially, zero training. None of them had gone through
the special training normally required for prisoner—guard
duty. They were not familiar with the Geneva Conven-
tion. They were people picked off the street. Or, in the
case of the young girl you’ve seen in the pictures, Pfc.
Lyrmdie R. England, picked out of a trailer park These
people are not soldiers. But Donald Rurnsfeld felt they
were good enough to guard prisoners at Abu Ghraib.

Not good enough, apparently, to interrogate
them. For that, Rurnsfeld has hired mercenaries. Doz-
ens of private contracting ﬁrms are being paid by the

Pentagon to perfonn logistical support and other opera-

less money, and guess what? The
private sector and the market had a solution! They would
hire private compcmies to do the job betterand cheaper.
What we are getting is the result of people who are
unaccountable and whose level of training are unknown
to us. Or, in the case of the reservists, their level of
training is known to those in charge, and those in charge
just don’t care. The costs of Abu Ghraib will be dire
indeed.

Don’t let this administration throw up its hands
and say, “Ah, it was just a few bad apples; don’t worry,
we’ll punish them good!” This is a strategic failure, a
failure to plan adequately, a failure to provide the re-
sources necessary to get the job done right. This is
absolutely the Secretary of Defense’s and President’s
fault. If they don’t plan properly, then the results of
poor planning are their fault. This is how executives are
held accountable. If we don’t hold them accountable
for their planning, then how would we ever ﬁnd them
at fault? Otherwise, they can always point to someone
lower on the food chain and say, “they are respon-
sible.”

Don’t forget that the needs of the occupation
were anticipated before the war even started A huge
report was prepared by people inside the Pentagon on
just what the problems would be and how to address
them. Donald Rumsfeld told them to shelve it. He didn’t
even glance at it.

What was done atAbu Ghraib is symptomatic of
a larger problem. Why isn’t the Pentagon bothering to
count civilian deaths? Independent estimates peg the
numberatwell over 20,000. Ifwe don’tcountthem, then
we’re saying they don’t frilly count as costs of war.
That is the message that is sent. Thought the F*CK
IRAQ parties were funny?'Ihenyou’repartofthe prob-
lem too. President Bush made jokesatadinnerinWash-
ington recently. They showed a picture of him peering
underneath the Oval Office desk. He said, “Where are
those WMDs, anyway? I guess not there!” He laughed.

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

PHOTO (.OUR‘I'ESYOF arrmated preys

COSTS. The soldier on the right is weeping for a dead friend. Occupier and occupied are both strained.

Media’s efforts in exposing U.S. POW abuse Vital

Did the media go too
far this time? This is perhaps
one of the most dominant issues
political
discussions at the moment as a
result of the extensive coverage
of the treatment of Iraqi
prisoners at the Abu
G h r a i b

Americans

affairs,

P r , S 0 I, , TRAIN or THOUGHT
Sometimes TRANK]Mt05

the media %————-———
does over-

information loop. Sometimes,
these hush-hush policies are
necessary for maintaining an
advantage in international
especially those
concerning national security,

out of the have truly been effective?
Would that have caused the
same concern and outrage? I
would say no for several
reasons. There is that
common phrase, a picture says
a 1000 words, and in this case,
these pictures speak beyond
that. There are few words that
can express the depths of the
cruelty endured by these
prisoners. A written article or

a broadcast report could never

but at other
times, these
policies simply
aim to cover up
s h a m e f u l
incidents that

sensationalize issues that are
irrelevant and waste time that
could be spent on more critical
issues, but that is not the case
with the media’s current
coverage of the Iraqi prisoners,
despite what some media critics
would argue.

Though the American
government adopts an open-
book policy in regards to its
actions, it does not always
follow this policy, leaving

would infuriate the public.
This is one of the latter
instances. In such situations,
the media serves as a
necessary check on the
government’s actions.

Some say that the media
could have informed the
public effectively by simply
reporting on the humiliating
conditions faced by these
prisoners without releasing
their images, but would that

have elicited the same
emotions as the visual reports.

Not only would an
anecdote not capture the
extent of these atrocities, it
also would leave too much
room for interpretation. One
reader might read the report
and not think twice about
these offenses, considering
them to just be another normal
day in prison life. But these
images leave no room for

interpretation, no room for
excuses, and no room for
comments like “Oh, it can’t be
all that bad.”

Another reason is that
these abuses have been taking
place for some time, though it
has only been reported to the
public now. The report issued
by Maj. Gen. Antonio Taguba,
the key player inexposing this
scandal, documents alleged
incidents that took place as far
back as the summer of 2003.
The following is an excerpt
from his report:

Breaking chemical lights
and pouring the phosphoric
liquid on detainees; pouring
cold water on naked
detainees; beating detainees
with a broom handle and a
chair; threatening male
detainees with rape; allowing
a military police guard to
stitch the wound ofa detainee

University Cleaners

7 North Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
463-3622

University Cleaners offers full service storage for all
your winter clothing and bedding. Each item is cleaned
and stored, ready for pick up in the fall. Regular
cleaning charges apply and are billed to your home
address in July. Storage is free.

It couldn't be easier, bring in your clothing this spring
and pick it up in the tall, clean, pressed, and ready to
wear. Eliminates the need to carry it all home over the
summer. Call or stop in today for addictional
information.

Free Summer Storage of all winter clothes and bedding

Celebrate Spring Time
Father’s Day
Brides ~ Graduation
Witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540)264-0063
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages

Speaking Engagements
Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

who was injured after being
slammed against the wall in
his cell; sodomizing a
detainee with a chemical light
and perhaps a broom stick,
and using military working
dogs to frighten and
intimidate detainees with
threats of attack, and in one
instance actually biting a
detainee.

In addition, (as though
this were not enough), the Red

. Cross had raised concerns

over prison conditions after
visiting them in January of this
year. So why are we only
beginning to address this
issue just now, nearly one
third of a year after the fact?
What is most
concerning is that if the media
had not released these
pictures and thereby set off a
chain reaction of furor and
condemnation, how much

ALL AUTO SERVICES
Brakes — Exhaust - Tune-up
A/C Services - Oil Change —

Engine & Transmission

Replacement/Rebuild
General Service & Repair
Car Wash In/Out & Detailing
U-Haul Truck & Trailer
Rentals

10% STUDENT

DISCOUNT!!
federated

l

Car
Care

$‘li"L:S.3~'A‘.$

 

longer would these conditions
have persisted? Would the
government truly step out of its
self—interested zone and alert the
public to these incidents
through an apologetic
confession? Would the abuses

and the quasi—torturous
interrogations have been
stopped? From Bush’s

response to these incidents in
failing to make an immediate
apology to America, the Arab
nations, and to the world, I
highly doubt it. From my
personal observations, the
American government has not
had such a great record of acting
honorably in these situations,
and it is only because of the
actions of the media as a
watchdog that the truth was
brought to light. If the media
had not gone too far as some
think, how much further would
the government have gone?

 

Blue Ridge Auto Center
1973 Magnolia Ave.

Buena Vista, VA 24416
(540) 261-9377

OPEN
Mon-Fri. 8 — 5pm
Sat. 8 --Noon

 

   

 

  

JOHNHYIAND _
W Rt  E‘  13 t
AssrrANrSPo1nsED1'1oR  .. \ r 11.1 E 3 L.
hy1mdib@Whmdu O R S
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004  I PAGE4
A if i 1..
..
A
,1.
1.
STEVEN MARINOS / THE RU\IG—TUM PH7
SHOOT T0 SCORE. Senior midﬁelder Richard Williams takes a shot in the mens’ lacrosse 12-8 victory in the second round of the NCAA tournament over Messiah College. W&L LAX heads to Maryland Wednesday 1

Men’s lax advances in NCAAs with weekend Win

Team defeats Messiah 12-8 in second round, will face tp ranked powerhse alisbury on Wednesday ~

STAFF REPORTS

who recorded a goal and two assists, Martin, and
freshman midﬁelder Jim Ryan who each added two

goals. Junior midﬁelder Mike Baracco, in addition at
The W&L men’s lax team improved their to helping Chesbrough win acommanding 17 of 24
record to 14-3 and advanced to the NCAA faceoffs also chipped in some offensive heroics
Quarterﬁnals on Saturday witha 12-8 victory over with a goal and an assist. W&L also won the
Messiah College in the ﬁnal game on Wilson Field groundball war by a commanding 49-32 margin. The ,
before it is uprooted and replaced for next season. Generals defense was its usual stellar self, particu— ‘k
The visiting Falcons entered the game 13-3 larly in the second half, in shutting down a very
after winning the Middle Atlantic Conference. They potent Messiah attack that came in scoring almost
scored early in the game to take a 1-0 lead but the 14 goals a game. The defense was led by senior
Generals answered with two quick goals of their goalie Ansel Sanders, the ODAC player of the year, ;_
own from midﬁelders Dustin Martin and Pat Collins who recorded 12 saves. T
to take the lead. The Falcons responded by going The Generals, seeded fourth in the South
on a 4-1 run to end the first half and tooe a 5-4 lead Region of the tournament will now travel to
heading into halftime. The Generals appeared rusty Salisbury to face the top-seeded and top-ranked
after not playing since winning the ODAC champi- Gulls, who are undefeated and the defending na- J‘
onship against Roanoke two weeks ago. However, tional champs. While this is a tall order for any
they came out ﬁring in the second half as junior team, the Generals match-up well, having won 12
Adam Chesbrough won the opening face off and games in a row and possessing one of the top de-
ledaface break, ﬁndingacutting Mike McNamara fenses in the country that could potentially neu- 
who finished the goal to tie the game at 5. The tralize ahigh powered Sali_sbury Offense. The team
senior attackman broke the tie just 1:41 later when seems to agree. “I think it will be a close game, we
he connected on a rocket from the top of the box are peaking at the right time and they have yet to
off apass from classmate Mark McLewee. The Gen— play a defense as good as ours,” Chesbrough said. J
erals broke open the game in the third quarter, Game time is yet to be determined but it will sure to ‘T '
outscoring the Falcons 5-1 to take a 9-6 lead enroute be a battle between the teams with the two longest
to the 12-8 ﬁnal. winning streaks in Division III. The teams last met
In addition to McNamara, the Generals’ of— in the 2000 NCAA Semiﬁnals with Salisbury edg-
fense was paced by senior attackman Matt Fink ing W&L 10-9. LOOKING AHEAD. Senior midﬁelder looks to pass down the ﬁeld with a Messiah defender in pursuit. J},
    3 Women’s tennis
             .        We See Rams team advances to
aeansezeczedro ﬁs*eeatereeinga3~66  .    -      
~ 2  . ‘T . ..  gradeqaotnt average as aChem- strikeouts (232),, V M _ , . _ N C f 1
c03[DAAcade;m¢A[]. F istry trlajor. He led the Generals record re: career ERA.,(a2s} A A qu3__’[_'tC]f lﬂa S »
_i T  F ' 1 . 1-  ‘ A » e A 1 to»a21.~I6overall'record,an1l~7¥ ; Last _ season 1}) ya
'l€tiC Conference and ‘£1 runner-’ DlStI‘lClI  S W against Williayns was much closer
1  , _  A “P-iPQ5i?i,°‘_‘i‘1i the ODAC T0313 4 TAFF RITER for Washington and Lee, but a j,
Wa5hi3g§°“,i, 3“  C ‘ A “Afteran early season loss bit of a heanbreaker. VV1lliams
.h3“§i¢¥ Bet¢5V3-/ A  1;  3 ODAC PitCh‘.5Y and to Denison, I think lots of teams took the victory 5-4. Scorers for
.3am6si?\/iétdison) was one of 1 Baseball Scholar Athlete of the wrote us off for nationals,” said the Generals included Hagerman,
P1333“ _5¢1¢°ted.t° ‘he.-12% Year? 93311 Pitched 3 563891“. sophomore Lisa Mabry. “But we McClung, freshman Katie
vA¢ademi¢2"&13*DiSiri¢‘.¥11  g ,1“3¢°1'd 38-2 inning‘ £91" 64 knew we were serious about mak- Kingsbury, and doubles partners 5*
ban Team’ alm°u.n°ed 0” Thurs“ it jsixikfouts’ 32-33 ERA» a‘3,Ch°°i‘ 4 ing a statement that we were still Hagerman and Wortham. Espe-
day aftemomf T53 team was "‘3¢°1Td fhree Sh‘3{°“tS and 3 inthe game.” The Generals g1adu- cially touching was senior Liz
selected by the College e51v10IT5_ A , S€h001‘T3°°Td for Vi.“-Ories in 3 ated three strong seniors last year Law’s last match. “She played a
Informatiou . Dimléfs '°f  5335011 (9*2)- 19 3ddi.ﬁ°n: he set and are competing with a really great match for 3 hours and 20 R
 (GOSH-’A)~  V. _ » 1115 ODAC ma$kf01‘.C3f€C1"‘WinS< young team. minutes,” said teammate Lisa
A Dean 57‘-‘ms 3 59°: 0” ‘he V WM‘ 3 2937 *3 t331''1'°C°1'd» the After a stellar showing in Mabry. “She was a great doubles
A A the first two rounds of NCAA partner and teammate, I’m really
Division HI Nationals competi— going to miss her next year.”
, * ». .  _ T , in , tion, the women’s tennis team The team ended the year lk
 t 6 M if if A qualified to compete in the strong; however, tying the
Wasmugtoniand Le.e-lmniorga 1 quarterﬁnals in Memphis, Ten- school record for the most wins
iM°C1.m:e (Mf’m1’1‘“.s° Tefn” , V, ; nessee. Atn'p to Graceland added in a season at 24. “The freshman
M¢mPh1$ Umvermy. Schoo some extra fun to the trip. really stepped up this year,” said A
V ?“d 3.0-p.h°m°r°. fjfavild ishay 4 Ranked second, Washing- Mabry. “Everyone expected this
i(Mmm6z’ C73‘! Pref’) 1 2 ton and Lee ﬁrst faced number to be a building block year, but
have both 3dV3“°?'~1;‘°  nine Gustavus Adolphus in the we knew from the beginning that
quanerﬁnals 9f. the.N_CAf$‘ D1“ quarterﬁnal round. The Gener- it was going to be much more.
ViSi»~°n,fm MW,“ Tani-S 31”” , als walked away victorious, de- We’re looking forward to yet an- )-
, Cham9i°nS1,”p S  at _B‘?“’=SV feating Gustavus Adophus 5-3. other good year next year. ” - V A
C°3.15g¢' 1 1 - 1 A C  1   Scoring for the Generals Individually, the Generals
Bah  Shay». were junior Lindsay Hagerman, also had a strong showing.
1 ._ V _ *A:m.¢*‘1°?=’ f’.°1?°t by freshman Kristen McClung, Se- McClung won her first match, but _
T reacfmglmeiequmﬁf  nior Elizabeth Law, and freshman was defeated in her second 
.9°m‘?gm° Ge“°ml_S" {Wt  Ginny Wortham. In doubles, match against Kristen Raverta of
‘?“‘“4°* An'.Am°n°"‘}f Hagerman and Wortham and Law Amherst. Hagerman, seeded
Robby McNaughton. . ~ ‘ . 1 3 and Lisa Mabry teamed up to second, advanced in singles.
V .  Mﬁcmmadvaﬁcéd. 1°  score for the Generals. Again, she earned All-American jr
a paint by idefeating M i.Af.e¢ The team advanced to honors; this being the third time
compete in the serni-ﬁnal round in her college tennis career.
against defending national cham- Doubles partners
pion, Emory. The Generals faced Hagerman and Wortham con-
off with the Eagles in mid-April, tinue to compete in Memphis at A
suffering a loss of 8-1. Unfortu- Rhodes College. They have ad-
‘ 1 -_ , , - _ nately, this match went similarly vanced to the quarterfinals
I V _ “ 1 E ~i /A >1 V ~  1 A T ‘3‘°."?"*”%35“5’5°¥"“. .INF‘°m.“nON ..°?3“l”g»’°'?"f‘ (7 A 64) ‘hag. for the Generals with Emory tak- round. Competition continues
 P““iMF91?¥?    . V  downﬂd 1  5-‘ ing the match 5-0. until late Monday.

 

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
MANAGING EDITOR

Hair created a phenomenon when it hit New
York City in 1968 and will probably create the same
phenomenon at Washington and Lee over 35 years
later. The material in the production was controver-
sial in 1968 because of language and themes of the
musical.

The production was a landmark play. There
are no stars or leading roles. Everybody in the
“tribe” performs in all numbers. The curtain call is
not traditional, everyone comes out at once be-
cause the play belongs to the whole cast.

The director, Jere Hodgin, said that he tried to
set Hair in a way that everyone can experience the

      

.3”

values of the 1960s, even if you did not live through
the decade. According to the director, without Hair,
plays like Jesus Christ Superstar would not have
existed.

Rehearsals have been an interesting process
for everyone involved from the director to the cast.
First, Hair is usually performed with over 30 cast
members. The Washington and Lee cast has 21
members. Second, the cast and crew has had only
one month to prepare. The director and the chore-
ographer, Leslie Owens—Harrington, said that they
were used to doing a production in a month, but
usually with seven hour practices instead of the
three hour practices that they have been holding.
The choreographer pointed out that the content is
different for W&L actors. Not only do they have to

Featuring A
and “YOU Afld /pi’   A

Enhanced CD features exclusivelive
& behind-the-scenes footage A

“Beautiful Ways”

i’ 5'21 55??

patmcgeeband.com
warnerbrosrecords. com

HIE + May 20 |\|0I'lIa in not-nun
’ May 21 Brown's Island inliichmond
May 22 9:30 club in Washington In:  

BREIT T. KIRWAN

ACTING ARis&lirEEDrroR
l<irwanb@wlu.edu

 Nudit in Hi brings cotversy to Lenfest stage

act, but also they have to sing and dance. Jere
Hodgin is a guest director from Roanoke, who has
directed over 200 productions. Hodgin was con-
tacted by the theatre department over a year ago
to direct this production. He accepted even before
knowing what it was going to be.

Hair also brings four other professionals to
Lenfest. Leslie Owens-Harrington will be doing
choreography and Piotr Oleksiak is the musical di-
rector. Dante Murray and Aaron Scott were also
hired to act in the play.

The original production of Hair had a nude
scene during the number “Where do I go?” Ac-
cording to Hodgin, this scene reﬂects characters
asking that when values are discarded and chal-
lenged, where do you go from there? Hodgin said

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

S'rr:vr;N MAa1Nos / THE R1.\'r;—7u\1PI—1I

that we make choices about what we wear, but is
that really who we are? Do you shop at J. Crew just
because other people say it is “cool?” The tribe in
the play feels that we hide behind our clothing,
therefore they take it off.

_ ‘Hodgin said that he explained this to the cast
and said he would let them decide if they want to
take off their clothes. ‘‘I have no idea at this mo-
ment what they are going to do,” said Hodgin. He
went on to say that every night the nudity could be
different. If they feel like taking off their clothes,
they will, but they are not mandated to.

“Hair is a celebration of the new age, the age of
Aquarius,” said Hodgin. It is about an age of hope, risk,
change, and hope for change. It deals with the 1960s
themes of racial equality, sexual freedom, and peace.

Send your engagement
announcements to

phi@w|u.edu .

You want to go
to medical school,
you have your B.A.,
but the only
science course

- you’ve taken

has been

Physics for Poets.

We have
a program
for you.

Columbia University’s
Postbaccalaureate
Premedical Program is
America’s oldest and best.

1
c
U)
H
u-
a»
h
O
9’.
as
C
'1
o
N
H
o
'u
1
o
3
(D
9:
fl
“_’
11
1
o
an
'1
SD
3

Discover why our
graduates have an 85%
placement rate in American
medical schools. Call:

(800) 8904127

gspremed@columbia.edu
www.columbia.edu/cu/gs/postbacc

COLUMBIA

 

School of General Studies

do the American iieai: ‘

so dxiﬂks I

 

 

PAGE 6

THE

THE R1N<;;«-mi PHI

AST WORD  

BREITT. KIRWAN

ACI’lNGARlS&LlFEEDl’IOR
k1rwznb@wlucdu

MONDAY, MAY 17, 2004

Outdoors truly makes W&L a special place

W&L feels like home to me, but not neces-
sarily because of the W&L lifestyle. I sometimes
wonder how much I’m suited towards the W&L
lifestyle (mind you, I’ m referring to the stereotypi-
cal “W&L lifestyle”). I don’t consider myself all

that fratty.

ABSOLUTE FRATLORD Naturallya after
four years,

TIM SMITH ‘O4 W&L has had
asigniﬁcantef-

, feet on me, as the “Frat Lord’s Mom” suggested in

her delightful article. For the most part, I feel like
I’m from a different demographic than the majority
of my fellow students. Yet, like I said at first, W&L
still feels like home.

I come from a few miles outside of Charles
Town, West Virginia, on six acres of land situated
in the shadow of the Blue Ridge and a mile from the
Shenandoah River. That’s been my home since I
was ten years old, when the Smiths moved away
from the NOVA suburb of Fairfax. And though grow-
ing up in Fairfax might have been a little more excit-
ing, I truly enjoyed the slower-paced life that West
Virginia had to offer.

Now, as I’m facing graduation in a little
less than three weeks, I realize quickly how W&L
has become my second home. Only 140 miles away
from my real home, the W&L scenery is not all that
different. There is still the waH of mountains to-
wards the east. Instead of the Shenandoah, W&L
has the Maury, with the more magniﬁcent James
River several miles away. And while there’s not so
much different from my home in West Virginia, the
scenery is still spectacular.

This brings me to my point ——- the “world
of W&L” can be so consuming that, a lot of times,
we forget about the world around W&L. And with
a few weeks of Spring Term left, you should do all
you can to experience what the area has to offer.

PARTAAAY! Buffalo Creek Music Festival, is tbe event of Spring Term, as these two 1997 revelers demonsaate.

Buffalo Creek is a good start. Sure, to
some, it’s only another W&L party. But I think
there’s a rather large difference between a frat
house basement and the open-air of Zollman’s.
When it looked like Buffalo Creek was extinct, I
wasn't worried about losing the music or losing a
party —I was disappointed about losing that open-
air atmosphere which makes that festival so differ-
ent. Thankfully, Buffalo Creek has been saved, and
we’ll all have to opportunity to experience its atmo-
sphere one more time.

Goshen is so underrated. If you’ve been a
W&L student for more than a year and haven’t
seen the world past the Horse Center, well, then
you're just silly. The drive is amazing (and ﬁm with
a manual transmission), and Goshen Pass itself is
simply stunning. You can swim. You can nap. You

Who needs summer Vacation when you’rea W&L student?

In schools across the
country, students are counting
the days left in May. This mom-
ing, millions of kids woke up

But let’s face it, would I
rather work 40 hours a week, or
write a few three page papers in
between frat parties? I am go-

and ran to their Anna ing back to Idaho to a curfew!
Koumikova cal- For the past
endars and put QT”: nine months,
an “X” through POTATOMAN as long as I
today’s date. It MARsHALL RULE‘()7 was home in

will undoubt-
edly be the best
part of their day. It means that
they are one day closer to sum-
mer. But I am not running to my
Anna Kournakova calendar
(yes I have one, and no, I don’t
care that she sucks at tennis).
In fact, I have hidden my calen-
dar and anything else in my
room that reminds me of how
close summer really is. I don’t
want to be reminded that in just
over two short weeks, I have to
go home.

Don't get me wrong, I
want to see my family. Even

though I talk to my mom five

times a day on the phone
(sadly, not an exaggeration), I
miss her. I want to see mydog,
my friends, and even my
brother. I am looking forward
to not having a roommate, not
writing papers, and not hav-
ing to wake up early for class
(not like I go to class now, but
let’s pretend).

time fordinner
the next day
and a shower before I go back
out, I was fine. In three weeks,
I will have to beg to stay out
past one. And that is only if my
mom realizes that I have been
on my own for a year and am
capable of taking care of my-
self.

For the next’ three
months, I will not be covered
in sweat in some frat basement
to listen to some horrible over-
the-hill cover band. I won’t be
able to sit in the commons on
a Tuesday night, pretending
to do homework, but really
just talking to anyone who
walks by. For the next three
months, I won’t be able to en-
joy my walk to Robinson Hall
through the ‘columns of the
Colonnade, wondering what I
did so right to get to spend
four years here.

Finally a frat boy, I won’t
be able to hang out at the house

all afternoon, without a care in
the world. For the next three
months, playing poker with the
guys just isn’t going to be the
same. If I get bored, I won’t be
able to just walk downstairs to
play some NCAA dynasty with
my friends. Dinner will be with
the family, and no longer with
my brothers.

It will no longer be cool
to ﬂip my collar up and wear
salmon color shorts. The infa-
mous “frat tuck” will be
laughed at, and so will my pink
ties’. No one will know who
Monticello Road is, and no
one will want to play Beirut.
However, I might be able to
talk them into playing what
they call beer pong. No more
Waffle House at three in the
morning. No Goshen.

For the next three
months, I can’t complain about
the EC. I can’t sleep-in until
noon, and stay up until three.
Two orders of Domino's cinna-
sticks will no longer be consid-
ered a meal. I won’t see any
cockroaches for three months.
No more intramurals. No more
streaking the Colonnade and
the old folk’s home. The gym is
no longer a thirty second walk
from my room, and neither are

can reﬂect. And for you more motivated students,
it’s also a great place to study. Don’t miss it.

Most W&L students know about Goshen
and Buffalo Creek, but there are tons of other places
in the Rockbridge area that should not be neglected.
First, there’s House Mountain. On a great day, its
sheer presence makes Lexington feel a tiny bit more
special (please pardon the environmental sappi-
ness). Furthermore, the mountain is not just for
looking; The House Mountain hike is stupendous,
just ask someone who’s done it.

For you less outdoors-inclined people,
there’s the Parkway. The Blue Ridge Parkway is
breathtaking. First off, it’s a sweet drive, so you
can enjoy it without even leaving yotu SUV. But
the Parkway has other valuable uses as well. For
you fellas, here’s a hint: the Parkway at sunset with

walks with Professor Porter. No
more southern accents.

For the next three
months, I will not be able to do
any of these things. Summer is
coming at the worst possible
time. Since September, every
week has been a little better
than the week before. Each
week has been the best of my
life, until the next week comes
and it’s even better. Pledgeship
has brought me closer to my
brothers and friends than I
have been all year long. I have
life under control, and every-
thing going my way, and now I
have to leave all that?

I’m going to have fun at
home. I have missed the Guns
and Roses Concerts. I have
missed cargo shorts. I have
missed my beloved car. Most
of all I have missed not hav-
ing to deal with humidity (I
know, Lex humidity is not half
as bad as, say, Houston’s, but
I’m a wimp, what can I say?).
But I sure am going to miss
the General life.

a significant “passenger” is worth the price of gas.
It comes highly recommended.

Then there’s another great and more ex-
citing activity which I enjoyed this past weekend,
bridge-jumping on the James. Not only can you
enjoy another great car ride over the mountains on
501, but you get amusement park quality excite-
ment without cost. Seriously, what’s more fun than
jumping 30 feet off a bridge into a river? Not much.
I went quarry jumping about 10 times this past sum-
mer, so this pastime is particularly close to my heart.
E-mail me if you want to go. -

The truth is W&L offers so much more
than what it might seem. So many times, I’ve heard
complaints that Lexington is boring, that there’s
nothing to do. Some might even suggest that the
reason Greek life is so crucial here is that we’d all
die of boredom without it. To me, that’s only half-
true. I love fraternities, tried-and-true, but thank-
fully I’ve also had the opportunity to experience
all these other things, which I’ve grown to love as
well.

At home, I’ve worked as a raft guide. I’ve
lived ﬁve summers on the Shenandoah. I’ve ca-
noed the Antietam Creek ump-teen times. I’ve
climbed Maryland Heights and searched through
Harpers Ferry over and over again. I’ve gone cav-
ing. I’ve gone hiking. And I’ve gone quarry jump-
ing too. I’ve enjoyed Jefferson County, WV, even
though it’s probably not the most exciting place
on earth.

I’ve enjoyed W&L and the Lexington just
as much. That’s why I love it here. That’s why I
hope to stay here. And that’s why I encourage you
all to get out there and experience these things for
yourself. While the W&L lifestyle might be good
by itself, there are so many things around W&L
which I guarantee will make you love this school
even more.

So what am I going to do
for the next three months? I am
going to get up early every

PHOTO COURTESY 4/.jt>orterr.rom

ACE. The beautiful Miss Kournikova is a daily reminder of life in Lex.

morning and run to my Anna
Kournakova calendar and
write an “X” through that
day’s date. And that will be the

best part of my day, because I
will know that I am one day
closer to being back here in
Lexington.

Look at the bright side;
at least I’m not graduating, be-
cause that is the only thing that
scares me more than summer.

hall crawls. No more late night

quicklyts

Q The Book Club is awesome! Mondays, 7:00
p.m., Commons 216!

Q Screw Johnny Depp. George Auerbach is the
sexiest man alive.

Q This place isn’t really that southern. There
are just so many Yankees here who think it is.
Those of us from the South think this place is pretty
northern.

Q What happened to parties every night?
Spring Term is pretty dissapointing.

Q Courtney Perry is bailed from my frat house,
unless...

Q Gulotta stayed out past his bedtime last
weekend! Luckily, he called his mom every hour
and always made sure he was holding someone’s
hand before he crossed the street. He wants to be
a ﬁreman when he grows up. Ah, kids.

Q Homing on frat life: “Of course I own seer-
sucker pants. I’m a frat boy!”

Q I love it when I exit the bathroom naked, hop-
ing nobody is around, only to stumble into the
security guard scanning the checkpoint in our
house at 2:30 in the morning.

(I) Aside from interesting subject matter, An
gels and Demons lacks any redeeming qualities.
You may as well read Ihe Da Vmci Code twice.

(I) KA should shoulder a good deal of blame for
having inadequate sober rides for the party last
Thursday at Beans Bottom.

Q You probably won’t get a sober ride from
stepping into the path of an oncoming car. You

~ might, however, get killed.

Q Someone looked hot in his purple and pink
bathing suit out at Goshen.

Q Way to destroy Messiah, Lax team.

Q Life would be perfect if I could roll every-
where.

Q Students at Liberty aren’t allowed to dance,
so why is the school bringing in a band?

Q It’s okay to totally mock someone if you
whisper.

Q Nothing else matters if you have a great rack.

(I) Attention future investment bankers: Today
in 1792, the New York Stock Exchange was formed.

(I) Everyone should read the new sorority expose
Pledged by Alexandra Robbins.

Q Lifetime movies rock!
Q Who’s hotter—- Mary-Kate or Ashley?

Q Did you know? The 2001 riots around a G8
summit in Genoa led to a 29% decline in births in
the city.

Q Ifyou’re in a war, instead of throwing a hand
grenade at the enemy, throw one of those small
pumpkins. Maybe it’ll make everyone think how
stupid war is, and then while they are thinking, you
can throw a real grenade at them.

Q Could the elevator in the University Com-
mons be any slower?

Q I don’t get this whole Friends and Frasier
thing. Nobody cried when Walker, Texas Ranger

went off the air.

Q I pity the fool that don’t like T.

Q The hardest part about Buffalo Creek is de-
ciding what to burn next.

Q Your guilty conscience may move you to vote
Democratic, but deep down you long for a cold-
hearted Republican to lower taxes, brutalize crimi-
nals, and rule you like a king.

Q It takes approximately 237.2 licks to get to
the center of a Tootsie Roll pop. Thanks ECONI
MGMT 203.

Q Playing the drums is a lot‘ like making love,
it’s best if you don’t look down.

Q On this day in 1979, Bob Ricca joined the
Colonnade Club. It took him only 56 minutes be-
cause he had a different girl waiting for him in each
of the ﬁve buildings.

Q Wahoo! Go, Tribe, go! That’s right, the Cleve-
land Indians’ bullpen has saved three games in a
row.

Q Keith Urban’s “You’ll Think of Me,” is num-
ber one on Thunder Country this week.

Q Submit your anonymous Quick Hits and tales
of Buffalo Creek foolishness and tribulations to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

