   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM PI II

The Iieeeieeei were of Washington and Lee Ueeieerein time 7897
  Election 2004 -

Carlson weighs in  
on tomorrow’s poll

BY KATHERINE SHELL
ASST NEWs EDITOR

Cw.

VOLUME  No. 13
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1,2004

T HE

Halloween Fun

Tucker Carlson, CNN ’s Crossﬁre co-host and well—known con-
servative political commentator, spoke Wednesday night at Lee
Chapel in front of an eager crowd. After his speech, entitled “Why
the Right is -Right,” a book-signing and reception followed in Lee
Chapel.

Carlson’s discourse detailed why he believes Kerry will not
win the 2004 election next week. He stated that “attacking the
opponent’s character is what the Kerry campaign did from day one."
Though he speciﬁcally said he did not have a problem with a charac-
ter debate, in his experience, he believes they don’t work. “Personal
attacks, attacks on character, get partisan individuals in a frenzy. I
Who cares about partisans in a frenzy, they will vote the same way
[as before the character debate]. The narrow band in the middle who
haven’t made up their mind a week before the election are turned off
by a character debate.” He also reminded the audience that after
Clinton’s impeachment, his ratings
went up" “The narrow band in the

middle who haven’t made
up their mind a week before
the election are turned off

by a character debate.”
TUcKERCAR1soNV
POHIICALPUNDIT

As well as discussing
why he believes Kerry’s campaign
will not work, he also discussed
some of the campaign ploys used
by Kerry’s campaign. He cited
evidence of Kerry’s attempt to
show a speciﬁc personality, and
those attempts to show Bush in a
negative light. He told humourous
stories of Kerry attempting to be

ORBIN LACKFORD " G—TUM HI-

GOLFING WITH LOCAL Kins.‘ Greek organizations and other groups help to run Wal-Mart’s lst annual Halloween Carnival.

W&L community, Wal-Mart host carnival

‘popular at W&L, such as ac-

~ Selective Liberal Arts Consor-

BY LEAH KERsHAW
STAFF WRITER

Lexington Wal-Mart’s 1*‘
annual Halloween Carnival
draws a crowd of costumed
witches, princesses and cow-
boys.

The carnival was held in
the Wal-Mart parking lot Satur-
day, Oct. 30. The event was
sponsored bycwashington and

the concession stand’s sales
were donated to Young Life, a
Christian youth group program.
Wal-Mart donated the prize
candy, concession items and
pumpkins for the children to
decorate. Wal-Mart also pro-
vided publicity for the carnival.
Jason Woodlief, assistant
manager of\Wal—Mart, came up
with the idea for the carnival.
Before coming to Lexington’s
Wal-Mart, Woodlief worked for

had always been very success-
ful in Charleston, Woodlief de-
cided to bring the event to Lex-
ington. Woodlief said that the
purpose of the carnival is to in-
spire “community involvement
for an organization to host the
event every year.” ,

The carnival was well at-
tended by families from the sur-
rounding areas.

Fraternities and sororities
sponsored various carnival

Reid Manning, a member
of Kappa Sigma, enjoyed vol-
unteering at the carnival. Man-
ning said, “It’s a great way for
the Greek system to gain posi-
tive interaction with the commu-
nity in a quality way.”

Localchildrenwene excited
about the Halloween carnival.
Nine year-old ‘ Cheyenne
Hamilton, dressed as bumblebee,
said that she was “having a lot
of fun”. Cheyenne Hamilton’s 5-

“macho,” and summed it up with “John Kerry. He may be liberal, but
he’s mean.” He also discussed the Democratic tendency to portray
Bush as “not only so dumb he can barely read, but a brilliant evil
genius.” Carlson pointed out the deﬁciencies in this stereotype,
including, “People could not process Bush as a liar,” they “like Bush
because they think he’s a straight-shooter.” His problem with this
Democratic propaganda was that the “Democrats came to believe
Bush was the caricature they had been portraying.”

After discussing the Democrats’ tactics to win the 2004 Elec-
tion, he discussed the subject weighing on many peoples minds as
they decide who to vote: Iraq. “Kerry allowed the central issue of
this election to go undebated.” Also, Carlson acknowledged that the
“rest of the country would have beneﬁted from a debate on the war

_ of terror,” ‘which did not happen until Labor Day.

Lee fraternities and sororities, a Wal-Mart in Charleston", South games and activities including a year—old sister Tasha Hamilton, Carlson elaborated on man of the kc issues in next weeks
Rockbridge Area Shop for Tots Carolina that hostedasirnilar Hal- ring toss,,face painting and bal- dressed as princess, also en- election and a ealed to much if the W821: communi with his
and Young Life. Proceeds from loween event. Since the event loon dart throwing. joyed the carnival. ’ pp ty

witty,‘ conservative anecdotes and lecture.

Upperclassmen embark on the search for employment
PPSE to offer job help for students

For most seniors,entering the workforce is the

next step after graduating from Washington & Lee

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR.

As fall term marches on, W&L seniors are beginning
to think about life after college. Over the last ﬁve years,
nearly a quarter of graduates went on to advanced studies.
But around 65% decided to dive into the world of employ-

ment right after graduation.

September’s national unemployment rate was 5.4%,
an improvement from the mid-2003 peak of 6.5%. Nonethe-

less, the Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics predicts growth that ei-
ther exceeds or meets the na-
tional average in many careers

counting and management.
The BLS also predicts
growth——and “intense compe-
tition”—in marketing, public
relations, and advertising.
Many of these jobs will be- _
come available in early 2005.
For this part of the year,
students out of the VV1l1iams
School are the focus of em-'
ployers. Suzarme Wade, As-
sistant Director of Career Ser-
vices, agrees that commerce
students are facing an intense
situation. Increased competi-

tion in accounting and invest- ’ V . . I . I _ , . V cynical. “I’m not too optimistic
men‘ barlking means that top     3°" tofcontact them’ and, because I haven’t had too much
firms have already given of-  9iVe.'“y’°u ajob" ‘ luck,” he said, 2

fers.

Later in the school year,
Career Services will collect re-
sumes and applications for the

tium (SLAC), which arranges
interview days in Philadelphia,
Chicago, New York, Boston, or
Washington, D.C. Other jobs

will become available on eRecruiting.com, the career center’s
job and internship network.

Diarme Winter ’05, a business administration major,
has taken full advantage of the convenient opportunities.
Though she is interested in commercial banking, she has

interviewed on-campus for several investment banking jobs
as well.

Another way students get a foothold is through in-

ternships, which allow them to make contacts as well as prove
themselves to a potential employer. Politics professor Will-
iam Connelly leads a group of 15-16 students to Washington,
DC. each spring term for an internship on Capitol Hill.

“Each spring about half of my. . .students stay in D.C.

   



3; 

  

»-‘e:raint,ewi‘eyv  , not iota. »
 V “ -;:r'actioé_fiaterviewlaeddis~,“

‘raw-aavtser..,-I.. I Q 
:ffW°U9?§.,.tﬁe, ca‘-t 37
ships, many ofthem '

 

   yourresume. .
grzenstericemgo ¥ahoo_Hot.Jpbs,a¥1_ows em- f
" " ‘ mintmat effort on your.

rig; An. .nside;soujrcfe can Ietyou know

 
 
   
   
        
       
      

for a job or intemship,” Connelly said. “We also have a long
success rate of seniors. . .into jobs in Washington upon gradu-

ating.” Connelly sees this suc-
cess as a direct result of the
Washington Term, pointing to

the saying, “The best way to get .

ajob on the Hill is to have ajob
on the Hill.”

Brittany Smith ’05 can
speak to the value of an intern-
ship. Smith, an accounting ma-

S jor, received—and signed——a job

offer at the end of her internship
this summer. While her fellow
seniors scramble to connect with
employers, she can concentrate
on her studies.

Drew Jones ’05 has used
Career Services and personal
contacts to search for jobs. But
a tight job market and a competi-
tive ﬁeld have left him feeling

For now, C—school majors "

swarm the Hill in suit and tie for
interviews. Come winter term,
they’ll be replaced by liberal arts
majors as new employers move
through campus.

For Winter, the hardest
part of the process is the time it

takes. “There were a lot of jobs -
on SLAC, so it took a lot of time to search through all of

them,” she said. “It just comes in waves.”

Jones agrees. “It’s pretty stressful, just applying, hav-
ing the right cover letter, getting resumes together, stuff like
that—it takes a lot of time.”

BY ASHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER
If you don’t know what to do after
you graduate or want to do something
different before you go to graduate
school, thepProject for Public Service
Employment is here to help. .
PPSE is a new program de-

, signed to help students of all majors and

interests find public service jobs that are
right for them.

Many seniors have difficulties
ﬁnding non-proﬁt jobs after they gradu-
ate because many non-proﬁt jobs are
not sufficiently advertised or students
carmot begin work when non-proﬁt or-
ganizations need them. PPSE helps solve
these problems by matching students
with non-proﬁt and making sure student
and non-proﬁt timelines coincide. Stu-
dents submit their application to PPSE,

and PPSE sends student applications to
appropriate organizations.

PPSE fellows are guaranteed
full—time work for as little as ten months
or as long as two years in Baltimore, New
York City, Washington, D.C., or even in-
ternationally. Fellows are also guaranteed
monthly stipends of at least $1900 as well
as health insurance. Every fellow re-
ceives an alumni mentor in the city where
they are placed, and students become
further connected with a network of
alumni-based public interest programs
including 22 public interest programs
with alumni from Dartmouth,
Georgetown, Harvard, Bucknell, and
Stanford.

If you are interested inthis pro-
gram, go to PPSE’s website, http://
ppse.w1u.edu/, or contact Stacy

' McLoughlin or Aubrey Shinoﬁeld.

    

ling-tum Phi

 

Election Special
Opinions Page 4  

PHOTOS COURTESY] oHNKERRY.coM AND GEoRGEWBusH.coM

EDITED BY CHAD KIEWET DE ]oNcE

 

  

 VA 94450

Hassouna speaks at Vll/ll

BY ROB ARMSTRONG
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

VMI — One of the Arab world’s most distin-
guished diplomats visited Lexington last week, of-
fering hisiperspective of the American-Arab con-
ﬂict. An Egyptian native, Hussein Hassouna is the
current Arab League ambassador to the United
States. He addressed the Virginia Military
Institute’s Corps Cadets last Wednesday, and fo-
cused on issues relating to Palestine, Iraq, and the
9/ ll terrorist attacks. _

Hassouna began his lecture by saying that
he firmly believes Muslims and Americans share a
common unity and are part of a “global culture.”
When discussing the tragedies of 9/ l 1, Hassouna
said the attack was against all civilized nations. He
pointed to the fact that many 9/ 11 victims were
foreign born, and said that the Arab world and the
United States have a common enemy in ﬁghting
terrorism and must join hands.

9/11 attacks

Hassouna expressed his disappointment for
the blame that some have placed on the Islamic
religion and the Muslim culture for the attacks of
September 11, 2001 . He urged Americans who main-
tain a bias against Muslims to be more responsible
and rational.

“It is important to remember that President
Bush, immediately following the attacks, recognized
that [9/1 1] was not a representation of Islam nor of
the Muslim world.” Hassouna also pointed to the
9/ ll Commission for stating in its conclusion that
the enemy is a group of fringe killers.

The high—ranking diplomat said that the rea— ‘

son why a large number of Muslims are anti—Ameri-
can relates to a lack of education, literacy, and em-
ployment in their homeland. “When these people
see problems like Palestine dragging on, they be-
gin to feel more despair and feel as though they
need to react,” said Hassouna. And when people
feel defenseless, they tend to become more extreme
and radical, leading them to commit crimes in the
name of their people or religious beliefs.

The best way to combat this is through joint
efforts by the United Nations, said Hassouna. He
expressed hopes for an international conference
dealing with terrorism because terrorism can not be
eradicated unless “developed infrastructures” are
established in the Middle East in order to spawn a
higher—educated population.

“The United States and Western powers have

NEWS
Distinguished ab dploat addresses inteat

'§‘='ll;l?.l.‘Lt'i~'ll“«ll}l=3

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004

COURTESY WWW/.PEPM.ORG

SHARED ‘GLOBAL CULTURE.’ Arab League Ambassador Hussein Hassouna, pictured above at another event,
spoke at VMI about the current relationship between America and the Arab world.

never tried to solve real problems that these societ-
ies face,” said Hassouna.
Hassouna outlined the three areas of great
conﬂict in the Middle East:
Historical Israel—Palestine conﬂict
The U.S.—led invasion of Iraq
Human development
While the war in Iraq has created contro-
versy, Hassouna believes that it is only “a chap-
ter” in the history of Middle Eastern conﬂicts. “The
main problem in the hearts and minds of the Arab
people  is the tragedy in Palestine.”

t Israel — Palestine

Hassouna does not believe that the United
States has been completely fair in its diplomacy to
this region. Among the problems in the Israeli-
Palestinian conﬂict is Israel’s construction of a wall
or fence—like structure across the West Bank. Sup-
porters of Israel call the structure a “security fence”
because they believe its purpose is to protect Is-
rael from suicide bombers. Palestinian sympathiz-

Washington & Lee Mock Trial Association
prepares to pick first competitive team

BY SARAH MURRAY

NEWS EDITOR

In its first year of competi-
tion, W&L’s Mock Trial Asso-
ciation is preparing to select its
competition team at the end of
the semester. Twenty-five stu-
dents have been spending four
hours a week learning courtroom
jargon and procedure in prepa-
ration for the winter competition
season.

The new Mock Trial sys-
tem requires more comnritment
from its members than other on-
campus organizations. Inter-
ested students enrolled in a one-
credit course this fall to learn
basic techniques: direct exami-
nation, cross-examination, and
opening and closing arguments.
Members also learn to stand up
under questioning as witnesses.

At the end of the term, eight stu-
dents will be selected for the
team. During winter term, a simi-
lar class will focus on prepara-
tion for competition.

Law professor Beth
Belmont makes sure that the

class is unique. Students do not
receive grades. Classes take
place over pizza at the law school,
meeting Wednesdays and Sun-
days.

“It’s a lot less stressful than
other classes because of the lack
of grades, but everyone’s really
motivated and wants to do well,”
said Aditya Kamath ’06, founder.

Belmont recruited the aid of
Kim Thomas ‘05L, who partici-
pated in Mock Trial during her
undergraduate years at Rhodes
College, Memphis, Tenn. Thomas
was more than willing to help a
program that inﬂuenced her fu-
ture so much.

“It helped me develop my
public speaking and advocacy
skills, and it actually convinced
me that I should go to law
school,” Thomas said.

Thomas will bring her ex-
perience to bear on the mechan-
ics and procedures of Mock Trial
competition.

Kamath has wanted to bring
Mock Trial to W&L ever since he
left his high school chapter. Lack

The CounterCulture Cafe
Home-cooked vegetarian fare

of funding prevented his attempt
to start a chapter last year, and
he turned to Belmont for advice.

When Belmont observed
that some of the best teams offer
class credit, Thomas recom-
mended the system out of her
Rhodes experience. “I thought
it was a really good approach,
because it built in a level of com-
mitment and dedication that is
not always present in a strictly
extra-curricular program,” Tho-
mas said.

This year, Mock Trial has
more of a presence than Kamath
had ever hoped for. The eight
students who compete at the re-
gional tournament in February in
Washington, D.C. will be better-
prepared than he anticipated
during his first attempt at start-
ing the group.

“It’s also a wonderful thing
that undergrads get to go to law
school for class and interact with
law professors and students,”
Kamath said. “It fosters a greater
sense of campus unity and cross-
ravine relations.”

 

; .

check

  

C707‘

Sﬂvess /Min 13!
l6‘lia”cio/a fe Bandaidsl

ers, on the other hand, say the structure is an “apart-
heid wall” and a “land-grab.” Hassouna described
the structure as a “wall,” and said that Palestine
would have accepted its construction had it been
built on the border. Israel, however, has built parts
of the structure inside Palestinian territory. After
its completion, the structure could isolate as many
as 200,000 Palestinian natives from the rest of their
land. I
In late July, the United Nations voted 150-6
against the Israeli structure and ordered for repara-
tions to Palestine. In some regions, the structure
has ripped up fertile farm land vital to many Pales-

. tinians. The United States was only one of ﬁve

other countries to support Israel, and argues that
the vote was imbalanced.

Iraq

Hassouna stressed the differences between
the two U.S.—led wars in Iraq. In the liberation of
Kuwait, Saddam, Hussein displayed a blatant ag-
gression‘ against and independent Arab country.

BY KATHERINE KRALL
STAFF WRITER

Nabors Service League met with the phi-
lanthropy chairs of campus organizations on
Tuesday in order to introduce a new plan to en-
courage W&L students to become involved in
volunteerism. Service opportunities will now be
offered through activities that deal directly with
the student body.

“It is our goal to have every organization
involved in service in the community” said Tye
Haeberle, who, with Sonia Siu, is in charge of
campus outreach. Instead of N abors creating all
the service programs, agencies in the commu-
nity will now work directly with the campus or-
ganization to arrange service opportunities and
engage volunteer workers.

Nabors will initially establish the contact
between the campus organization and the com-
munity agency, but eventually the Nabors
middleman will be eliminated.

“Nabors will still be there to support and
to provide special events” said Sonia Siu, “basi-
cally we are trying to facilitate a closer relation-

VOTE.

Shop

 

Like No Otrihelrm

You've Seen!
6/‘f 1'5 & Snac/cs‘

For All 0cca.ps'/'a_n_.s_'~
Our: Tea Room
(Serving Premium Teas, Ligh-r Far-e 6: Sweefs)
Body Frvsfingl Shldenf Cane Paekqges
.$amefhity for Everyone
Abve/iy Candies,

ional affairs

As a result, Hassouna said the “whole world stood
up against this aggression.” The liberation of Ku-
wait was thus largely supported by the Arab world.

Operation Iraqi Freedom, however, was
waged under different circumstances. Hassouna
said that the civilians in Iraq are still paying a price
as a result of the on—going confrontations in their
homeland. In addition, Hassouna expressed his
concern for an American—led invasion that was
launched without the support of the international
community.

“The idea of preemptive strike is a very con-
troversial issue. Whatever can be said for it,”
Hassouna argued, “I think the greatest danger is
that this notion could be followed by other coun-
tries. If every country acted this way, we would be
in a very dangerous world.” .

The first elections in Iraq are scheduled for
the end of January. Hassouna was concerned
about the security situation in Iraq. While he be-
lieves that elections are the best way to proceed as
a democracy, Hassouna stated that the results must
be justifiable, including all fractions of the Iraqi
population.

“There is a feeling among Iraqis that they are
victims [of Operation Iraqi Freedom],” Hassouna
said, “there’s this idea that the war has other de-
signs.” I

  Human development

Hassouna is an important member of the Arab
League, a body representing a group of Middle
Eastern nations, including Jordan, Tunisia, Sudan
and Syria. He described the League’s creation of a
free trade zone and their agenda for reform in the
Arab world, including the promotion of women’s
role in society.

The Arab League has also called for a estab-
lishment of a no-WMD-zone across the Middle
East. All countries, including Iran and Israel, would
have to put their nuclear capacity under inspection
of international ofﬁcials. “We will deal with it with-
out exception,” Hassouna stated.

Common values

Hassouna ended his presentation by again
stressing the common values shared between
Americans and Muslims. “The positive elements
between these two worlds are much stronger. We
have a common destiny  whatever approaches
the United _States adopts will affect everyone. There
are huge strategic interests and it is important to
restore trust between these two worlds... the few
extremists want to push us to confrontation  it
will always important to continually discuss these
issues,” Hassouna concluded.

N abors meets with organizations

ship between the organization and the service

I agency and to connect them in a 1ong—terin rela-

tionship.” ,

A beneﬁt to this new arrangement will be
increased numbers of volunteers, since friends or
group leaders will be soliciting their participation.

v “People are far more likely to get involved if some-

one that they have a personal relationship with
asks them to volunteer,” said Haeberle, “so this is
a more efﬁcientway to get the entire campus in-
volved.”

Incentives include an improved relationship
with Lexington. “In the past, W&L has had a little
of an isolationist image, but volunteering corrects
that” said Haeberle. He notes that there are chil-
dren who need a tutor and elderly people who just
need someone to talk to and this new arrangement
will make volunteers much more accessible to the
needy.

Haeberle explains the many beneﬁts, “the
ultimate goal is to increase Washington and Lee’s
level of civic engagement, allow students chances
to improve their quality of life and hopefully im-
press a more favorable image of W & L on our
immediate neighbors.”

 

    
    
   

  
 

W&L’s
II1OSt
trusted  

      
 
      
    

«6/‘fr Baskeiif

 

Kick/ts: Popcorn!

l\/Ionday-‘Saturday 10 é.rn.‘ - 5:30 p.rn.
Sunday Noon :— 4:00 p_.r_r;.
1 3 South 1\/Iain Street
464-4433

    

clean meat; I
- gourmet cheeses
- N.Y. Bagels

- wholesome snacks
- orgenlc produce
- quick-ﬂx entrees

 
   

SOUIICC

  
   
 

 
  
    
  
  

Fun Foods
. .5‘
Accessories
‘I-4...! .14-vnn

I -4..‘ -.

Member discounts available
Mon-Fri 9-6

    

Sat 9-5 0

  
 

wwvv.funfoodsforyou.corn .

for news

 

1 .

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004 '

m1;i?.1N<_;—Tu:»i Pm
STAFF EDITORIAL
Phi for re-election of Bush

We here at the Ring-tum Phi certainly
do not all agree on which candidate is
the most virtuous, nor do we all agree on
the issues they champion. But the ma-
jority of editors here at the Phi feel that
President Bush continues to be the right
man for the job. A

‘Certainly both candidates are quali-
fied to be the President, but the bottom
line is that John Kerry’s economic policy
does not make any sense. Here is a man
who advocates massive increases in pub-

‘lic program spending while simulta-
neously talking of cuts to middle class
taxes. While Democratic rhetoric towards
“making the rich pay their share” is well
and good, it’s a simple fact that one can’t
expand the government without taxing
the middle class, and that is precisely
what Kerry will have to do, whether he
intends to or not.

Thus, we feel that Bush’s tax cuts
(and thus smaller, less wasteful govern-
ment) are a more efficient plan for
America’s future. While the President
usually does not exert much direct con-
trol over the economy (the current so-
called “Bush recession” was in reality
well on its way by the end of Clinton’s
administration), Bush’s plan makes sense
and will restore economic confidence to
small businesses and middle-class
America without the pie—in-the-sky prom-
.ises of the senator from Massachusetts.
As college students, we have more con-
fidence in a Bush-inﬂuenced job market
upon graduation rather than a Kerry-in-
fluenced one.

Also of import is the fact that Kerry
pays undue attention to non-American
sources when it comes to foreign policy.
While “internationalism” and “globaliza-
tion” are well and good, the fact is that
decisions related to America’s safety must
be made only by America. Kerry’s vision
of a world where America must seek glo-
bal approvalto safeguard its own inter-
ests is simply not acceptable to us.

Therefore, while we respect John
Kerry and his plan, we feel that President
Bush’s is superior, and contains a
brighter future for America.

 

“Well, tl1 was no sex for l4 days”,

~Gov. Amold Schwarzenegger (R—Ca) on
rejection by his wife following his
endorsement of President Bus h at the
RepublicanNationalConvention.

 

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderman

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen
Business Manager

Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Directors

David Seifert

Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara

Distribution Dir Stephen Lipscomb

77ze Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Iﬁng-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

ll 

CAlEYAI\ﬂ)EBSON
OPINIONS Ennorr

Em m:

 

Reflections on Gaines Halllife as a frosh 

Over the summer, when I received my
Housing Information Sheet, I was honestly
just excited to have official word that I was,
for sure, attending college in the fall. That
and I had a single, which meant little to
me, but was fun to brag about to my
friends. When I saw that I was in this dorm,

‘I’ve also found that my roommates
arenjt that crazy. Yes, one listens to MTV
at 8 in the morning, the motivation for
which is still a bit hazy to me, seeing as

how it’s 8 in the morning when I try to dis-

cover it. . .
There are two Yankees, which was an

“Gaines,” I was like . adjustment to say the least, but
Thank God, They put me mmjfi I think it was handled grace-
in the normal dorm! Then ITSNOTYOUJTSME fully. I can proudly say that
I talked to all my other they are now accustomed to

friends, and turns out
THEY were in the normal
dorm, not me. They both STARTED with
G’s, but were not, in fact, the same. So what
is this “Gaines” place, then, if not Graham-
Lee’s?

Within days I met some expert W&L
students that had suffered the same fate in
the past. “You’re in GAINES?” they asked.
Um, yes. “I was in Gaines.”

Awkward silence. ,

I’m standing there staring, in horror.
They looked at me with pity. “Yeah...you
need to switch.”

To see if I could get a more balanced
opinion (maybe, hopefully, there’s another
side to this...) I consulted another W&L/
Richmond friend of mine. “Gaines?” he
asked. “Um....You’ll get a lot of sleep...”

Because that’s what I’m going to col-
lege for. Sleep.

I was starting to get a little freaked out;
I mean, I didn’t want to go to college and
already have a strike against me. If I
wanted to do that, Icould just dye my hair
green and pierce my eyebrow, I don’t need
University Housing to do it for me.

So I was a little nervous moving in. I
was relieved to find that my suitemates
seemed normal...on the surface. I was sure
that, underneath their sweet smiles and
handshakes were some serious psychologi-
cal issues involving uncleanliness,
loserness, and general psychosis.

Having learned that Gaines “hinders

your social development,” I was completely _

ready to stay in my room 24-7, a hermit.
Now I have found some advantages to
living in Gaines. For the first few days, you
tell people where you’re living and they
give a long sigh of envy, and tell you it’s a
palace. After that, it turns back into the
obligatory “Oh really? God, that sucks. But
your room is really big, isn’t it?” .
But during orientation week, I was like
yeah, my room is big. And carpeted. And
air conditioned, thanks to a note from my
family allergist, so that I do not have aller-
gic reactions to the heat. Or something.

Letter to the Editor .

To The Editors:

‘On behalf of the Board of Trustees, I want to

respond to articles in our student newspa-
pers that may leave the wrong impression re-
garding University policy toward the use of
alcohol in fraternity houses.

There are three elements to University policy:
support for state and local laws, enforcement
of University regulations, and enforcement of
the rules of the national fraternity organiza-
tions. The combined effect is that University
policy includes, but is not limited to, the fol-
lowing provisions:

The possession, sale, use or consump-
tion of alcoholic beverages at any event en-
dorsed by, or associated with, the fraternity

MARY CHILDS ‘O8

9

the apparently ubiquitous
pearl necklaces and the “L. L.
Bean on otherwise normal college stu-
dents.” Other than that, and the time I for-
got to take the trash out for half a week,
things have gone pretty smoothly.

The major downside to Gaines, about
which I was amply warned over the sum-
mer, is the fact that every night when you
happy freshmen zig zag home to your warm,
well-lit halls of Graham-Lee's and Gillam, I
am trudging faithfully to the hospital hall-

~ ways I call home-
I have to cross another whole road to_

get to Gaines, and there are sketchy alley-
ways full of sketchy cats (descended from
Lee’s cats —' or .possibly, the actual cats,
judging by the condition they’re in) and,
of course, skunks, on my way. All these
scary or just weird factors mean that it is
a lonely trip; no one in Normal Dorming
Situations wants to walk you home, and
God knows no one’s going that way.

And not only am I in the leper colony
of freshman dorms (upperclassmen, you
are entirely excluded from these gener-
alizations because you are rooming with
your friends, and presumably you already
have a lot of friends anyway), I’m on the
quarantined side of it.

Through sheer bad luck, there are two
little suites on the wrong side of the U,
over in the corner.

The “active” end is in the middle,
where there are two sides of the hall with
rooms, and its co-ed. Scandalous, I know.

So for those of us that must pass the
DC’s room, round the corner, and scuffle
our way into the social side of things
(and let’s keep in mind that I use the word
“social” liberally here) it is just too hard
to be social sometimes.

All that walking when my bed is right
here  not to mention the fact that you
feel a little like a leech, always hanging
out in other people’s rooms when yours
is blatantly really far away and you have
no excuse to be there.

So as a freshman in Gaines, I have

, PAGE "3

photo murtegr ofjr//tumermotn

MDCED BLESSING? Gaines Hall as a frosh can be trying.

certainly found it to be true that living in
a palace a hundred miles away from civili-
zation is not ideal (See “Rapunzel”).

Let’s be honest — if you know who I
am, that is a triumph, nay, a miracle for
me.

It’s more than a battle for any
Gainesian to meet more than twelve Regu-

lar Freshmen, let alone upperclassmen

(somehow they seem to know GL kids bet-
ter — perhaps networking works better if
you are not isolated. Call me crazy...).

So to the Freshmen in Normal Dorming
Situations (Look! As an acronym, that al-
most spells “FRIENDS" which looks like
friends...coincidence?), feel free to call
your Gaines friends all the time. ,

Or, wait, no, our phones don’t work

here, because there is no cellular recep-_

tion in prison cells.

So feel free to IM your Gaines friends.
What’s that? You don’t know a Gaines
kid, probably because you’ve never seen
one? A Well, there are plenty just
waiting to have friends, so make some new
Gaines friends if'you have none.

Everybody needs that token Socially
Hindered kid, right? No, actually, I’m go-
ing to reject that label. We’re fun! We or-
der pizza! We can hang!

Bottom Line: don’t forget your fellow
freshmen, or freshman friend, just be-
cause he/she happens to be on the side
of campus where you would never think
to venture, because it smells like skunk.

must be in compliance with state and local
laws.

The purchase or use of a bulk quantity or
common sources of alcoholic beverages (i.e.
kegs, multi—portion bottles, orcases) is pro-
hibitedﬁ

Under-age drinking is prohibited.

All recruitment activities will be dry func-
tions.

Drinking games are prohibited.

Students can reference these regulations spe-
cifically by familiarizing themselves with state
and local law, consulting the Standardsifor
Fraternities and Sororities in the Student

Handbook, and obtaining the rules of their
national organizations.

Our policies are meant to help provide a safe,
healthy and respectful environment for our
students and our neighbors-in the community
we share.

Because that is of utmost importance to
the Board, I want to make it very clear that, in
accordance with our fiduciary responsibility,
the Board expects full compliance from our

students, and that University policy will be

enforced by the Administration.

Sincerely, V
Philip W. Norwood
Rector, Board of Trustees

 

names of the people I went to high school with.
AlanKeyes- l Nut.....job.

Elton John- 1- Nut.....job.

Ashlee Sirnpson- .L- Milli Vanilli, anyone?

could enjoy regardless of Greek afﬁliation.

nently cold?

Thefacebook.com - T Strangely addicting, and now I know all the 

Supreme Court- 4"? Longest—tenured court continues its reign, and
here’s hoping that Rehnquist’s battle with cancer doesn’t change that.

Winter- 1 So, is there a rule that Virginia weather has to get really cold,
then really hot, and so forth for three months until it ﬁnally gets penna-

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,‘
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Osarna bin Laden-  Says that “America‘s safety depends on your
policy, neither Bush or Kerry can protect you.” Or, you know, your sur-
vival depends on how lucky any given Marine Expeditionary Corps is on a

particular day.

Election 2004- 4*"* Excitement is building, but does anyone really think
we’ll know who’ll really have won by 3am onWednesday?

feel sorry for them.

Windfall Halloween Party- T One of those great W&L parties that all ,
W.- 4-9 bin Laden tape probably helps him more than Kerry, but the
Packers beat the Redskins yesterday, and a Redskin defeat is an omen
which has correctly predicted for more than 70 years that the incumbent
White House party will fall. . v

Zombies- 1 Halloween safety tip, kids— remember, the undead feel no pain,
and the only way to stop them is to do catastrophic damage to the head.

Osama bin Laden AS a zombie- T Overwhelming hatred for Western
culture replaced with overwhelming hunger for human ﬂesh. Now THERE’ S
a sitcom. “Inﬁdel Brains,” premiering next Friday on FOX.

Florida Football-  What an awful week. They ALL lost. Not that I’m
particularly a fan of college football, much less Florida, but you still have to

 

 

 

    

PAGE 4

:-lr;Rl,\r:-:n :i.r7.‘-‘er

PINIONS e-'——

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004

Ring-tum Phi Opinions Election Special
Phi opinions staffers hold forth on the left, the right, and everything in between  

Discussion the key; don ’t shy away from political talk no matter what your opinion

It seems like this week
is going to be a week of
long conversations. Most
everyone’s parents will ar-
rive sometime on Friday,
bringing along with them ex-
pectations for academic
success

be able to hide behind our
money or our schooling,
and not be considered infe-
rior for being female. This
is us ya’ll. I support our
troops more than I can say,
but there is a clear differ-

ence between

a n d people who are
words of INTRODUCING." meant to be S01-
wisdom. SARADUCKV/0RTH‘()6 diers and those
This Tues- Whom are

day however, we must

make bigger decisions than
whether or not to play beruit
with our Dads, we must con-
template the election and its
outcome. Sharing a hang-
over with your parent(s)
maybe something you laugh
about for years to come, but
this Tuesday could cost us
more than we could imagine.

I’ll share a little secret
here, I’m scared to death of
the draft. I was lucky
enough to have very smart
women talk politics with me
and this topic made my
heart ache.

It seems like something
that would never happen to
us, right? Does itjust seem
too dated or “historical” to
talk about? I don’t think so.
This won’t be the draft that
Dad went through, where he
sat around the Frat house
with a bucket full of ‘you’re
screwed’ money going to
the guy with the lowest
draft number, it’s going to
be more encompassing. J

It’s a different age,

forced into be-
ing them.

But neither candidate is
wanting to start the draft,
right? Yeah well they are
also trying to win an elec-
tion here.

They are giving us re-
hearsed answers to strate-
gic questions, while talking
and not saying anything.

No one is going to vote
for someone who is going to
rip their family apart, cause
psychological damage, and
help create the bitterness
towards the government
that our parent’s generation
felt.

But this concern is only
part of a long list for why I
voted a Democratic ticket.

I asked the question to
Mimi Elrod if she could ask
the W&L community to do
one thing what would it be.
She answered, “Look be-
hind the words.” Consider
what the politicians are tell-
ing you and switch from
CNN to Fox News to NBC to
NY Times to whatever and
somewhere within that bi-

ased journalism world there
will be some truth. We take
what our parents say with a
grain of salt and ask our
friends for second opinions,
so why would we not do the
same here?

My conservative

friends have taught me to

listen and I find their opin-
ions valuable.

So don’t hide behind the
fact that you are conserva-
tive or liberal, but go starta
conversation.

Talk to your parents
about politics and your pro-
fessors. I ask you to not
just talk just to the people
who think the same way you
do, because though you will
feel legitimized you will not
learn anything.

The War in Iraq is part
of our generation, as is the
battle over a woman’s right
to have possession over her
own body and the right for
everyone to marry the per-
son they love.

So this weekend, while
you talk to your parent(s)
about football and the Red
Sox breaking the curse, re-
member to talk to them
about politics. I can’t pre-
dict what is going to hap-
pen on Tuesday, but I do
know that no.matter what
these issues are not going
to end with on that day.

The rules of the past are
over. We can talk about
politics, religion, and

where we are not going to

money, so do it!

Once again the liberal media has drummed up
another chimera, with cries that George W. Bush
will bring back the draft. Take, for example, MTV ’s
Choose or Lose campaign, CBS News (Motto: “We
really checked this time. Really”), or the pernicious
rumors ﬂying around the intemet (seriously, just
trying searching for “draft” on Yahoo). No matter
how many times the President says, “We don’t need
adraft,” the Kerry-loving mediakeeps insisting Bush
really has a secret plan to reinstate it.

Oh! Wait a second, tlrat’s
ri t! It was a Democrat that
was trying to pass legislation
foradraftintheﬁrstplace. Yes,

Rep. Charles Rangel, a Demo-
crat, was the force behind the bill. Said Rangel, “I
believe that if those calling for war knew that their

. children were likely to be required to serve-and
placed in harm’s way-there would be more caution
and greater willingness to work with the interna-
tional community in dealing with Iraq.” It has been
widely noted that only one congressman has a son
ﬁghting inlraq. However, this man, Sen Trrn Johnson
(also a Democrat) did vote to go to war in Iraq and
for all the subsequent funding measures.

With a draft, Rangel claims, “There would be a
more equitable representation of people making sac-
riﬁces.” Too bad all volunteer military isn’t dorni—
nated by minorities and the downtrodden, as Rangel
would like us to think In 2002, the most recent year
ofﬁcial data was compiled, 182,200 people enlisted
in the United States  Of these, 16 percent
were African—American, only a slight over-re -
sentation compared to the general population (Aﬁi—
can—Americans comprise 14 percent of US citizens
ages 18-24). On the other hand, Hispanics were un-
der-represented, comprising 1 1 percent of those en-
listing and making up 16 percent of the population
of 1 8-24 year old citizens.

Not to mention, those who volunteer for the
military are smarter than the average citizen. On their
aptitude test, 41 percent of recruits score in the 65th
to 99th percentiles (compared to 36 percent of the
population) and 58 percent score in the 31st to 64th
percentiles (compared to 34 percent of the popula-

‘air. '

BACKDRAFT
WHHNEY DUFFEY ‘O8

Defeated draft wasn't the Republican party’s idea, and never will be

tion). Only one percent of recruits fall into the 10th-
30th percentiles (compared with 21 percent of the
population) and no recruits at all fall into the bottom
10th percentile (as opposed to 9 percent of the popu-
lation). N inety—seven percent of the women in the
military and 94 percent of the men have high school
diplomas, while 79 percent of civilians do. Further-
more, all ofﬁcers must have college degrees.
Rangel told reporters his one of his goals in
proposing this legislation was to
jo1tAmericans. I’m sure it was quite
a jolt to him when the proposal was
overturned with an overwhelm-
ingly bipartisan vote of 402-2, and
it was probably that jolt that caused
Rangel himself to vote against his own bill.
Still believe Howard Dean and Max Cleland and
think we’re in danger of a draft?As Defense Secre-
tary Donald Rurnsfeld said, ‘The disadvantages of

_ using compulsion to bring into the armed forces the

men and women needed are notable.” Notable?
That’s quite an understatement on Rurr1rny’s part.

First of all, our armed forces are more profes-
sional and disciplined that ever, in large part due to
the extensive aptitude tests and the fact that the
men and women serviirg chose to be there. Institute
a draft, and not only will you bring in smart, able
young Americans but you will drag along the un-
motivated, uneducated, and uncooperative. An army
of conscripts will be less capable than an army of
volunteers, making a draft a poor choice for a deli-
cate operation like maintaining stability in Iraq. And
even if draftees were satisfactory, our military sim-
ply does not ﬁght in a way that requires large num-
bers of ground troops. We overwhelm foes with
technology, not hordes of infantry. .

The truth of matter is that Bush, the Defense
Department, and the Joint Chiefs will not seek to
reinstate the draft. War is often unpopular, but forc-
ing young people to ﬁght is practically intolerable
(remember how well it worked out for LBJ during
Vretnarn?) The bottom line is this: the only person in
Washington who wants a draft is Rangel. Just not
enough to vote for his own bill.

 

9 of detnezw. mm

Carissa Shipley- Vote Bush for Security

I am voting for George W. Bush. There are
some things about him and about the Republi-
can party that I don’t agree with, but I feel that
the 'good that he brings to the nation outweighs
these things. I am grateful, above all else, that I
am a citizen of the United States. I was raised
next door to the United States Air Force Acad-

. emy and there are many other military bases

nearby. Everyday, I am reminded of the actions
of our military that often go unnoticed towards
keeping us safe. While I have opinions about
abortion, social security, education, taxes,
health care, and other important issues, I really
feel that we are lucky even’ to have the luxury
of arguing over these issues. It’s freedom that
gives us this luxury and the preservation of free-
dom by the military and lawmakers alike that
determines my vote. While I feel individual free-
doms are important and I think that women
should be able to decide what to do with their
own bodies and individuals should be entitled
to keep as much of their money as possible, it
is the greater freedom that should be preserved.
The patriot act does take away some individual
freedoms but we wouldn’t even have these if
we didn’t live in a safe environment. I have read
a lot of dystopias about how the government,
being over involved can lead us down a slip-

pery slope towards an oppressive society, but

the safety that lets us be able to decide how we
live as a society can only be maintained by the
government. I completely believe that George
W. Bush is committed to preserving freedom
and safety, even if it is at the expense of some
individual freedoms, and this is why I’m voting
for him.

Anne Frnley- Ex-nght winger for Kerry
' Growing up, I always labeled myself a Republican,
though Ivnow consider myself to be an independent

This November, I am voting for Kerry. This is ex-
tremely interesting in light of the fact that a little less than
fouryears agoIwasataBushrallyinDallas.Is1illthink
GeorgeW isagoodguy,butbeingagoodpersonisnot
enough to be the best candidate for the presidency of the
United States. They arehuge shoes toﬁll, and Bushis no
longerthemantoﬁllthenrThisbeingsaid,Iamnotexactly
in love with Kerry either. If Colin Powell, Bob Dole, orJohn
McCain were on the ballot there’s a very good chance I
would vote Republican, but I can’t vote for Bush.

He makes me nervous. I am seriously wonied about
whathemightdotorestrictpersonalﬁeedomsinourcoun-
try. I care about the economy of course, but I am most
passionate about human rights and tolerance. I think
women should have reproductive rights to their own bod-
ies. I agree that partial birth abortions are abhorrent and

' should be abolished, but the woman’s health must always

be taken into account as well.
Iamallforgaymarriagebutunderstandthatmany.

people do not agree with me. Yet must our President at-

tempt to put a constitutional ban on same—sex unions? He

seemsdeterminedtounitechurchandstateanddictate

 It is the same for stem cell research, which has
more potential to save lives then anything I’ve seen in
years. . .thelistgoesonandon.

I will not profess to be a political expert. I simply am
aware of the issues that currently seem most relevant to
me and will vote accordingly. This is thejob for every
voter. Everyone must study the platforms of the candi-
dates and decide for themselves who is most in line with
what they believe and care about. I have an open mind,
feel free to come and try to convince me to vote for Bush.
Ifhehadmore ofanopen mind, perhaps Iwouldn’tbe
voting the way I am

Whitney Duffey- Bush for U. S. strength

Why am I voting for Bush? One: we need
to stay strong in the war on terrorism. Whether
or not you agreed with going to war, both sides
acknowledge that we need strong support of
our troops and to finish the job that we started.
Personally, I do not believe that Kerry will do
this. I think that instead of acting in the best
interest of our country he will be ‘swayed by
the will of foreign nations and jeopardize our
troops with dependence on these countries
which have very little concern for the well-be-
ing of America. Two: I hold the basic Republi-
can belief that lower taxes are better for the
economy. Bush worked hard to give families
tax relief," ending the marriage penalty and in-
creasing the amount of the child tax credit, as
well as reducing taxes on dividends and capi-
tal gains. These cuts have helped stimulate our
economy, making the GDP growth for the last
three quarters (+5.4%) higher than that of the
l980’s (+2.9%) and the l990’s (+3.1%). Three:
Bush will without a doubt put conservative
judges on the bench and it its likely that there
will be openings within the next four years.
Even after he is President, these judges will
ensure that Republican ideals are upheld. Four:
Bush is pushing Social Security reform that
will ensure the aging Baby Boomer generation
won’t break the system and privatization which
will allow future generations of seniors to re-
ceive better returns on their hard earned
money. Five: Bush’s scandal-free presidency
has been a general return to integrity in the
White House. I truly believe that Bush is not
only a good person but also the right one to
lead our country for the next four years.

 

K pbota caztrfegl of umirlredu

Cale y Anderson- Keny IS centnst’s choice

President Bush has, in his four years in oﬂice, at-
tempted to give our country a massive shove to the right
His social policies alone (threadbare support of stem cell
research, virulent anti-gay policies, and economics that
would shock and awe both Ronald Reagan AND Franklin
Roosevelt) are enough to makehimaquestionable incurn—
bent, buthisforeign policy seals thedeal.  and
by right ought to be, a sovereign nation with the power to
make its own choices in defending its security and peace,
but by invading Iraq in deﬁance of world opinion, and
with extremely tenuous motives, we were, in a way, emu-
latingtheveryroguestatewewereseelringtopunish.
Making choices inAmen'ca’s best interest does not mean
ignoring anyone who isn’t an American. The cost to
rebuild Iraq is massive, and it will continue to grow. As the
bill increases, who will help us pay it?

Which is why I’m voting for Kerry. He is fond of
statingapointwhichIthinkistherealheartofhisaccept-
ability as a candidate. That point is— “we should not be
closing ﬁrehouses in America and opening them in
Baghdad.” Budget problems have led to the closure of a
massive amount of public irrfrastructnre (police stations,

' ﬁrehouses, parks, libraries, etc.) in the United States, and

simultaneously we are spending hundreds of billions of
dollars building just such infrastructure in Iraq.

Kerry is not the tax-and-spend Massachusetts lib-
eralthathis opponents try sohardtoportrayhimas. Sure,
his planwillhaveArnaicapaying more taxes thanit would
under Bush, but he’s still for an overall reduction, leaving
asidethequestionofjustwhothattaxcutisgoingto. And
when it comes to social domestic issues, he makes sense.
Tobe sure, he leans left, but he’s not a complete hippie. It’s

atough choice forcentrists this year, butIthinkthatBush A

hasgonetoofar. IfGeorgeW. winsthiselect1'on,itwillbe
because a lot of moderate .center—right Republicans held
their nose as they cast their ballot for re-election.

D‘

 

  

MONDAY, NOVERMBER 1, 2004

Sophomore soccer

Star has what it takes ‘
Wiitshire leads team to victory time and time again .

BY SARAH BLOOM
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Sophomore Anne Wiltshire scored
three of the women’s soccer tearn’s ﬁve
goals against Eastern Mennonite on
Wednesday afternoon. This was not an
unusual performance by Wiltshire. She’s
been a consistent two year player, scor-
ing goals regularly and leading the team
to victory. '

Even though she’s been playing
soccer since she was 9 years old,
Wﬂtshire did not apply to college with
the intent to play soccer. “The funny
story is,” said Wiltshire, “I applied early
to UVA and didn’t really even plan to
play soccer there.”

Wﬂtshire later decided on Washing-
ton and Lee University and fell in love
with the school almost instantly. “Even
once I came here,” said Wﬂtshire, “I was
not counting on playing. I was nervous
and didn’t even know if I had what it
takes to make the team.”

VVIltshire has proven that she does
have what it takes and earned her posi-
tion. In her freshman year alone, she
started 18 out of 20 games. She earned
second team all-ODAC honors and ﬁn-
ished the season leading the Generals in

PAGE 5



points and scoring.

“The team is what comes first,” said
a modest Wﬂtshire of her success, “No
individual player creates victory for a
team. We work hard together and play
hard together. It takes the whole group.”

Her teammates think the world of
her selﬂess appearance on the field.

“Anne is a huge scoring threat and

asset up top, but she is still un-
selﬁsh and always puts the team
first,” said teammate sophomore
Jamie Dorsey.

VVIltshire is optimistic about the
year. “We’ve had our ups and downs,
but I think that we always peak just in
time for ODACs, and I know that we’ll
do that again this year and hopefully
qualify for NCAAs.”

With such a positive and support-
ive presence on the ﬁeld, Wiltshire eas-
ily wins the respect of her teammates. “I
think the great thing about Anne, is that
she plays hard and practices hard.i She
is always willing to give her all to the
team.”

A strong ﬁnish to the season is ex-
actly what the team plans "to accomplish.
Vlfith ODAC competition in progress,
Wiltshire plans to stay focused and en-
joy the sport she’s been playing for over
a decade with the girls she loves.

5

      

  

A  
HUIEN

Learn the Lingo

A Rookie’s Guide to watching The Game with the guys

 

CORBIN BLACKFORD / RING-TUM PHI

Wiltshire, left, surprised even herself when she decided to play soccer in college.

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

I once read that a girl should
never watch a football game with guys
except maybe if she is bringing food.
Although I completely disagree with
this, I understand the frustration. I
have heard girls ask how many points
each ﬁrst down is worth and how many
sacks the referees allowed each team.
Getting sports mixed up is a common
mistake, leading to questions like,
“who did you say is the point guard
for the Eagles?”

But for every girl that asks a stu-
pid question, I have met one who can
explain which routes work better on a
zone and which work on man cover-
age, and can use the words “au-
dible to a backside post” intelligently
in a sentence.

The football season is in full
swing and many girls ﬁnd themselves
on Monday nights in a frat house
watching football. Although the over-
whelming majority of girls can hold
their own in a discussion about foot-

ball, there are a few who are still mas-
tering the basics. For those ﬁve or
six, here are some hints about watch-
ing The Game.

Do not refer to any part of the
male anatomy during the game. You
may comment that the wide receiver
has good hands, and~ sometimes you
can get away with talking about the
qua1terback’s strong arm, but that is
as far as you should go. Guys don’t
realize that football uniform pants are
designed to attract the female audi-
ence.

Try to time your questions well.
Nobody likes to respond to a ques-
tion like, “now what does that little
yellow ﬂag mean?” when his tearn’s
winning kickoff return with 38 sec-
onds to go was just called back.

’ Don’t ask or attempt to change
the channel. Ever.- A

It is a good idea to read an article
about the game beforehand, but don’t
tI'y quoting from it to sound smart.
First, half of the guys in the room will
have read the same article. Also, guys
can always tell when a girl who
doesn’t know a comerback from a

quarterback starts dropping terms
like “drag-pattern undemeath” and
elaborating on the intricacies of the
West Coast offence.

In the upper—right comer of the
screen, you can ﬁnd the ofﬁcial game
clock. Stop asking how much longer
the game is going to last.

If you have a boyfriend, under-
stand that you are going to have
some serious competition for his at-
tention on Sunday afternoons. Re-
lax, he will be yours again the next
day. Well, maybe Tuesday.

Feel free to bring your knitting
to the game.

If you are particularly knowl-
edgeable about football, go ahead
and show up the guys. They some-
times forget there are girls who know
their stuff, and they almost always
have too high an opinion of their own I
sports savvy.

‘So laugh out loud when he sug-
gests that the team spike the ball on
fourth-and-four in order to have time
to get the ﬁeld- goal unit on the ﬁeld.

- Or better, explain to him his error.

Really, really slowly.

 

Wednesday

' M Soccer
at Emory and Henry——4
' W Soccer vs. Hollins--4230

 

New Opticians
Boutique

Extreme Fun!

   

 in 

° Volleyball at

° Field Hockey at

Fnday
Emory Invitational--4:30

Eastern Mennonite--5:30

4K

'5  Soccer at
Virginia ‘sX7esleyan—l1’  _

1trvitational—2 ,

.' Football at Certtre-1:38
F‘ M Soccer at I  ‘

Harnpdezr Sydney--11‘

     Saturday

Sunday

° W Soccer at Chowan--1

4  B:ma      

   

i ' 4 I  ’t«- 4! 2 

4" . .. . .
I-’xaaLCA1tmNm&TrNTo¥C.wE
Omdcrfzomont rneua

Orjeia urﬁrmrtofoasrdll. rtavcazvaaratﬁxa

~Fridaylw:t8ea£uadBtmwﬂhC:abLege5¥’!pi~19PM

~  8: amwaaumterr

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America's #1 Student Tour Operator to

Oakley
Maui Jim

For all your vision needs

come to
203 N. Main Street, Lexington, VA

540-463-7440

www.newopticians.com

emeayeatsmommramemmznmaau
~&'0$h8t3ﬂ7 Daysawwkﬁam-11m
~i&l‘$ﬂC0lll'tﬁy%’1‘§a9tM~1'Wﬂ
~%'30W, 8%. & PM Be‘ 1'lﬁM~1'$FM
HomaCoohdIe£eaIs8’SoatIremEospituI£ty!
Order-Be_cn&st 24 HotxxxaDxy,Scvendayeaweck!

uocatedat
LEEKITRAVELPLAZA

. 1-stat:-64,Exrrr95t2st6rroa'r1:t.eartwv,Lmi~«s1ox,vtt

540-463-3478

tines-ﬁoodaagrmeaolwrtuuof
Amigcfaiaitéamﬁﬂnfayai

Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco,’ Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com.

 

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party ‘

Cruise!

5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTrave|.com.
1-800-678-6386

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004



_ mountains,

Vista Links already drawin
New golf course in BV instantly popular due to outstanding design  

BY JOHN BOVAY
STAFF WRITER

The Vista Links opened on
former farmland just west of the
Maury River intBuena Vista to
great fanfare on August 26 after
over two years of planning and
construction. The City of Buena
Vista hired Rick Jacobson, who
has designed courses all over the
world, including the outstanding
Augustine Golf Club in Stafford,
VA, to oversee the project.

Many of Jacobson’s
courses have won awards from
various golf magazines.
Jacobson shaped a fabulous de-
sign into the rolling hills of the
Vista Links. The design blends
varying styles, drawing special
inspiration from links courses on
holes such as the second, a 587-
yard, downhill par—f1ve with two
blind shots.

When you first arrive at the
VistaLinks, the sight of
the course overwhelms you. Af-
ter driving up the newly paved
driveway to the cart barn that
temporarily serves as a pro shop
(the clubhouse will be completed
in Spring 2005), you can see the
magniﬁcent first and tenth fair-
ways playing out toward the
Blue Ridge. Every hole has a
great View of the surrounding
and elevation
changes throughout the course

give the player interesting chal-
lenges throughout.

The first hole is a 429-yard,
uphill par four that sets the tone
for the rest of the day, with bun-
kers on the left-hand side remi-
niscent of major championships
on Long Island.

The fourth, a 334-yard par

ﬁve with two semi-blind shots
around the two doglegs. The
twelfth, a great short par five
measuring 548 yards, plays up-
hill with a blind second shot to
the green. It is one of the most
challenging holes on the course.
The thirteenth, a challenging
downhill par three that plays

are among the best l’ve seen.
On the final hole, a behe-
moth par four stretching to 467
yards from the black tees, play-
ers face a seirii—blind tee shot be-
fore hitting their long second into
a well—bunkered green. When the
clubhouse is complete, it will be
an even more impressive hole.

guzzling Natty. ‘

i The course’s elevation
changes make every shot inter-
esting, but the course is so well
designed that players will never
encounter “billy—goat golf’ as is
sometimes found on mountain
courses with poor design. In-

stead, the rolling hills make for a_

“Our goal is to provide an outstanding golf

experience for our area golfers and I am

conﬁdent we can achieve this goal.”
EDWARD ARMENTROUT, GENERAL MANAGER’ or VISTA LINKS

four, is nearly drivable for a very
long hitter. The fifth, a par three
on the side of a hill, forces the
player to play to the right of the
green for safety because of the
severe slope to the left; if you hit
it left of the green, you’ll prob-
ably lose your ball. It is one of
golf course staff member Brian
Tubbs’ favorite holes.

The sixth is a 535-yard par

Tire Washington in iatvooy
ball. team had_[.its. 

a pair of, matches at the
A Invitational on Saturéaye
The ‘ﬁe neraledowneii
ranked Southwestem, I’
27,30-2I,beforc.fa1iiog‘
I A Colonels,30-18,,v34-32,)-

 



-t snapped at 19imatc1resas tgspiiit  ,:

tciiezé tics: .

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    

Contact ruIep@wIu.edu to write
sports for the Phi

over a creek, is one of the pretti-
est holes on the course and an-
other of Brian’s favorites.

The fourteenth, my personal fa-
vorite, is a 370-yard par four with
trees guarding the left-hand side
of the fairway and a creek that
stretches down the entire right-
hand side before crossing the
fairway short of the small green.
Finally, the closing three holes

Every hole is unique and memo-
rable, with no boring design any-
where on the course. 4

The course has attracted
golfers from all over the state
since its opening, drawing 449
players in its first six days alone.
Although water is only in play
on four holes, the native grasses
bordering the fairways on every
hole eat up golf balls like frat boys

delightful walk. The practice fa-
cility is also great, with a full
grass driving range and a chip-
ping and putting green where a
player can definitely spend hours
without getting bored.

The Vista Links plays to
6855 yards, with a grueling rat-
ing of 74.2/ slope 140, from the
back tees; and has five sets of
tees starting at 4924 yards. With

g crowds

its excellent conditioning, par-
ticularly in the greens, and prices
less than half their competitor
here in Lexington, it’s no wonder
they’ve sold 94 memberships so
far. It’s definitely worth the extra
few minutes to drive to BV to
play.

For any serious golfer, a trip
to Lexington should include a
journey into our neighboring
town to play their great public
golf course, a treat nestled in the
shadow of the Blue Ridge and
House Mountain (neither of
which you can see from LGCC).

The general manager of the
Vista Links, Edward Annentrout,
left his job as the head pro at Lex-
ington to take advantage of the
opportunity in Buena Vista.

Armentrout said “I am de-
lighted to have the opportunity
to open such a fantastic golf fa-
cility. Our goal is to provide an
outstanding golf experience for
our area golfers and I am conﬁ-
dent we can achieve this goal. I
am also eager to begin a grass
roots initiative to develop golf
programs for golfers of all ages
and abilities in our area.”

You can call the Vista Links
for a tee time at (540) 26l—GOLF,
and visit their website at . For a
non—resident of Buena Vista,
prices range from $10 (twilight)
to $27 (weekend) to walk. Carts
are only $12 more.

9

  
 
    
   
 

‘LynchburgCollege, falling only

   ,VFf&LBiéia:e?eam A
'  Second at Sl1ow_32‘ -

Points (101293)

 Generals took second place
‘ in a show hosted by Randolph-

Maoon Women’s College and

thireepoints shy of defeating
Hollias. Junior Caitlin Lane and

, . Katie Goodrich went one-twoi:1
‘ A0pon0verFencesa.ndfreshinan "

 38 P QR T s I N BR IE F   

' ,,W&LWomen’sSoccer,,  it

W&LFootballFalIs   .

.vz9oaagewnt¢n 34-.7 (taco.    T,

Sophomore taiiback Winston
Young  for 951 yards,an;lr'
two touchdowns on 1'4 carries to
lead Biidgewater past Washing-

~ ton and Lee, 34-7, ixromc foot-T .

ball action. on Saturday aftemooiif
at Iopsort Field 5

Alice Shih took first place in I

i Walklfrot.

i9"°1”R‘.’?.’.1“‘1.»“”.i"9“."3i**5.*:.‘."7-‘*‘.‘3.’.


Downs.§§ban01§¢g1¥¥¥'(1,9!30}i_i,’ ‘ -.

The .ii‘ii£:’ashir:git/end and fgee A‘
W°nt¢n*sedva::¢ed 
was   tbze_7Ol3AC  V

Tournament within l~O.yictorfy

   

 

   

I}

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS
$1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you

schedule your non—sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact Campus
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

 

l
C 0
62%;?‘ ‘Z?!
/:\Ki 3
d d Y Sh FINE Linear-rte
har si e am 0
0rcKm.ngspm.wys,wp P &ar2aS}’cx/mow
mu “Rm anda W77okzlotMone!
' Raphlne, VA 24472 ’
s4o34ss22o - 1-877-Nl'l‘-YARN Feline
Knitting cottage nestled along  creclr C036‘ HI anky Panky
which  3 fabulous selection Of N816 ~  V M V 7 L
and novelty yams, kits, needles and , 8 
accessories. Customer service from start to Al ianrle
finish with your projects. Mail orderand Honeydew
lntemet accessibility made easy.
Call for workshop & dms information.
ms 21 W. Nelson St.
Lain ton taunton
On I-Igtilf/ii‘-1g4b(:lMe:l€ln205, Rinhinz 4nu'l¢s west on 
Rowe 606. Raphine Road. Located and woriulg  __ Fri I0_5:30
farm an: arm "U-PICA" oppomanidufor fresh
fruit when in season S81 “L5
“I99 ' 5“ 10*“) ' 5”’ wed "ml 8:00 “scraper 116! sub ubi”
. 

Reserrxed exc'iusively for junior and senior students in good stcmdirzg .

aria’ gzrzzdtiates r:gfzhe' University.

 o   Please Jlisil the ring ronresentaiive at:

Elm! commons neuter -
Inner 5.2004, 10:00 3.lll. - 4:00 ILIII.
satllluay. ﬂnvgmngr 6'   Em. ""  3..lII.

For more informatiotz please vzlvitiiioww.ba{faurcollege.cnm or exit! I-866-»BALFOUR (866-225-3687). V

wwm “W mo:

 

 

at
A
BY ALEX KRAUS
‘I STAFF WRITER
The newly-released “Best of Sixpence None
the Richer” is much more of a variety platter of the
‘ career of the Texas-based sextet, rather than strictly

a collection of hits. The compilation includes a

smattering of certified radio hits (“Kiss Me,”

“There She Goes”), new songs (“Loser Like Me”),

cover versions (“Dancing Queen”), six soundtrack

g contributions, and even a bonus Japanese lan-
guage version of “Kiss Me.”

The strongest offerings on “The Best of Six-

pence None the Richer" are their best known songs

“Kiss Me” and “There She Goes” that seemed so

unavoidably ubiquitous no matter where you

turned just a few short years ago. Without doubt,

these two tracks alone are aces in this album’s

hand, and the “Best of’ gives a wider view of the

at band’s work than the self-titled album from which
these two songs were taken.

The question that looms above the heads

of all bands that have made the Christian con-

  
 

'l‘HE RIN " PHI&

53
CI)

temporary to mainstream transition is a certain
amount of ambiguity in lyric meanings. Does a
song that at first appears to be a simple love
song point to a higher power? While tracks like
“Breathe” and “Trust (Reprise)” have obvious
Christian overtones, other tracks are more am-
biguous. For example, in “Breathe Your Name”.
airy singer Leigh Nash coos, “You’re in my heart
/ I can feel your beat... When I lose control / I
can only breathe your name.” Perhaps it is a dis-
tinction that is best left to the ears of the lis-
tener. In recent memory, Evanescence have faced
the same problem, but seem to have a hard time
convincing the press that they’ve shaken their
Christian roots for music they now claim is purely
secular.

There is no question that Nash posses a cer-
tain allure in that effervescent voice of hers and
she knows how to use it properly — the cover
version of “Dancing Queen” is an astonishing rep-
lica of Abba’s original version. However, memo-
rable covers are the ones that reinterpret the song
in a new way rather than trying to reproduce it.

LIFE

Sixpence None the Richer releases new compilation

Thankfully, Sixpence opts for a bit more deviation
in their cover of Crowded House's “Don’t Dream
It’s Over.” Sixpence’s take on the song employs
the jingling guitars made memorable in “Kiss Me”
for a result that is more poppy than the source
material, if not a bit more inherently efferninate.

Nash shows off her impressive vocal range
on “Breathe,” although at times masked by a
distracting amount of studio reverb. While most
of the album skips along at the adult contempo-
rary pace, the track “Ange1tread” unexpectedly
takes a turn toward biting rock. Here, while Nash
conjures up lyrics that have spiritual connota-
tion, they resemble more an incantation than a
Christian message. She exudes, “The milky
prints of spirits near / I pray that they have lost
their fear.” However, N ash’s lilting vocals never
quite mesh with the harsh guitars, a contrast
that seems to damper any anger that the song
was trying to convey. Even still, it’s a welcome
one-off in an otherwise sonically homogeneous
album.

  

EVIlLYED\YJAR13: “
AKI‘S&LIPEEDl’IOR
EMAnFnwARDsnvI@\nUrDU

PAGE 7

“Us,” and “Too Far Gone” are more than just
filler. In particular, “Loser Like Me,” the album
opener, is a genuinely likeable track that could
easily be a hit in its own right and falls into the
musical vein of Sixpence’s past hits. Anyone who

might be looking into this album already won’t _

be turned away by the new material. “Too Far
Gone,” a piano and drum-loop driven song, does
an admirable job of catching Nash’s breathy
vocal tics in lines like “Why do I do this to my-
self? / There’s really no one else to blame” for an
effect that is altogether endearing.

Sixpence None the Richer’s success has
been a long time coming, having formed seven
years before breaking into the public conscious-
ness in 1999 with “Kiss Me.” During that time,

they have amassed a large back catalog of both I

Christian and secular songs, which comprises
the bulk of this album. For those that don’t have
the time or money to dig into the band’s full
catalog, all the best is compiled here onto one
CD — which should save you a sixpence or
two.

 

The three new songs, “Loser Like Me,”

My Uncle ’s Business debuts on Lenfest stage

BY LIGIA ABREU
STAFF WRITER

‘ When theater Professor Tom Ziegler asked playwright Bo W11-
son who he would like to direct his new play, My Uncle is Business,
at Washington and Lee, he answered with what he thought was a
joke. I

“I said ‘If I could rub a lamp I would get Tom Evans here, but
I know we can’t do that. Then [Ziegler] said ‘sure, we can do that’
and I said ‘YEAH!”’ _

Wilson, the featured playwright for this year’s Floumoy Play-
wright Festival at W&L, certainly had his wish granted.

Tom Eva ns had previously directed Servant of Two Masters at
Washington and Lee, and Ziegler was happy to bring him back for
another production. Evans is an experienced director, having worked
in theater for more than 35 years in different capacities. He spent
most of his career teaching undergraduate theater students at
Hanover College until he retired in 1999, and he has worked as a
freelance director ever since.

Evans says students at W&L are very nice and very much like
his old Hanover undergrads. Working with college students is al-
ways enjoyable, says Evans, because he believes “they’re very ex-
citing, interesting, they have open minds, they have things to learn.”

The W&L students in the cast are equally happy to have him
here. Joe Harouni ‘O5 says Evans is “incredible,” while Andrew
Rothey '08 said he is constantly challenging and pushing actors

to do better. Other cast members were equally enthusiastic in

their opinion of their guest director, saying that his experience
and friendly personality help them do their best work.

Evans is particularly pleased to be directing a never—before-
produced play. He said he likes the fact that no one has staged the
show before, so he can be the first to experiment with it. He is also
excited to see the audience’s reaction to it. “The only people who
can ever tell you whether a play is successful or not is the audience,”
he says.

And he should know; during his career in the theater, Evans has
seen audience reactions from three very different perspectives. He
is not just a director, but also a scene designer and playwright. His

 

most famous play, Yellow Dog Crossing, has been staged 10 times
despite not being published, and the 11'“ and 12"‘ productions will
probably take place within the next two years. According to Evans,
playwriting is the aspect of theater he enjoys most.

Not to say that he hasn’t had great experiences working as a
teacher and director. In fact, he is proud to say that his most famous
alumnus is Woody Harrelson, who later went on to join the cast of
Cheers and play the lead role in the movie The People vs. Larry
F lynt. 1 I I '

Evans remembers Harrelson as a bright student who could have
made all As if he had chosen to work hard, but did not. In fact, Evans
says Harrelson was nearly thrown out of a play because he was
always late for rehearsals. Evans’ wife, actress/director Barbara Farrar,
was directing the show, and grudgingly allowed Harrelson to return.

According to Evans, Harrelson’s fans should be grateful she «
did. “In that play he had a role, a small role, but it was a role that was '

rich with comedy and he got some wonderful laughs, and he says
that that’s when he decided to be an actor, because he loved getting
laughs.” '

Williams electriﬁes stage

   
 
   
 

      

   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
  

W&L Bookstore Presents... _
Student Bookts) of the Week
A weekly feaua ofthe Bookstnreand the Rhg-Tum PM
This week:
w at me: mm vxxxxtma
. P. A U L
(!;9~i5.rlK?alt¢nIxol{zu lsrshauuaaum TV?‘   "F
A H CH? WING
§CON§?iRACE
L I
LOSING GUR WAY
IR IH£ KEN EENTHRY
H§lﬂt1 113 lﬂtliéﬁ Vela A ‘I115 §1?k£l§t‘tt;q
um? )uI:g.¢»»- .4»: ‘Ivan! -:>::«. )3, ::l .,y, ix/-‘ix v-2:3 Mn-A/.32
(Spomored by Young Demoerds) (Sponsored by College Republicans)
In this acclaimed critique of the Bush Attomey and Conservative Commentator
administration, Krugman declares them Mark Smith deconslructs the 10 biggeﬁ
radcals masqueracing as moderates and liberal myths, provides facts and proof to
‘- ‘ qieslions their motives on a range of expose liberal lies and hypocrisy, and
issues, particularly their tax and social delivers hard evidence on why the liberals
Security plans, which he argues are standing policies on such issues as taxes,
"obviously, blatantly based on bogus welfare. goverment spending, and defense
' arithmetic." are just plain wrong.
1 .
20% of the sales ofthis book will be donated 20% ofthe sales ofthis book will be donated
to Young Democrats. to College Republicans.
Price: $14.95 Price: $14.95
A

 

One man band entertains” students and Lex residents on eve of Halloween

Keller Williams walked slowly onstage last Sat-
urday night at the Washington and Lee Pavilion
barefoot and wearing a Jason-style hockey mask.
In light of Halloween, Williams strolled slowly and
vibrantly into his own rendition of Johnson, Young,
& Young’s “Hell’s Bells.”

Williams played the entire tune and sang be-
hind the mask, leaving the audience to wonder if he
was going to play the entire set

was during this tune (3"‘ or 4"‘ on the set list) when
Williams began to showcase his creative onstage
abilities.

After dubbing his guitar riff into his equal-
izer, Williams went from bass guitar to electric gui-
tar to drums (on a keyboard) and then to some
black thing where he literally was using only his
hands to make instrumental noise — I wish I knew

with the mask on, and if he would
show his face at all.
Sure enough, he tossed the

‘ GET CRUNK!
BLAIR CRUNK

what it was, but it was incred-
ibly entertaining.

This was only a taste of
what was to come. Williams

/

mask after the first song and began H
bobbing his head from side to side as he played for
the next two hours.

Williams rarely spoke to the crowd during his
two-hour plus set, but greeted the crowd by sing-
ing, “Good evening everyone, thank you for com-
ing _to the show, hello.”

Williams played nearly constantly and took very
few breaks ingbetween songs. In fact, it was often
difficult to tell when he switched from one song to
the next because the guitar would just segue into
the next song so perfectly. ,

This often lasted for four or five songs in a row.
The crowd really started to respond to Keller’s mu-
sic when he gave W&L his best shot at Sublime’s
“What I Got,” letting the crowd sing the chorus. It

continued his musically cre-
ative brilliance and rocked the Pavilion until just
past midnight and kept the energetic W&L stu-
dents/hippies and townies noddling into the early
hours of Halloween.

This concert was not only one of the best con-
certs I have been to since coming to W&L, but also
one of the best that I’ve seen anywhere in my entire
life.

The small size of the venue, the large amount of
people that came to show, the enthusiasm of the
crowd as well as that of Keller, and the excellent plan-
ning on the part of the GAB led to one fantastic
evening with Keller Williams.

Check the Virginia native out at http://
www.kellerwilliams.net. Become a Freak.

BIueRidge
Prrrsrcm. THERAPY

Care with you in mind
463-5888
728 North Lee Hwy
Lexington, ‘VA
(College Squaw shopping center)

John 3:1 6

Specializing in:

Orthopedics
Sports Medicine
Spinal Mobilization
Post»-OP rehabilitation

Please call or stop by to speak with one ofour staﬁ”
members with any questions you may have concernmg yaw”
treatment, or your insurance.

 

the Phi

Section

Love Life?
Come work for

Arts & Life

24450
540-463-1934
www.agnor'sgunwor'ks.com

OF FIREARMS

Agnor’s Gun Wor-ks,LLC

"Gunsmithing"283 Edgars Way ~ Lexington, VA

TRANSFERS ~ SALES BLUING ~
NICKEL PLATING REPAIRS ON ALL TYPES

 

 

 

THE

PAGE 8

  

’l’lil'.EZ%1 R1x3<;~r::i;rl Put

AST ORD

EMILYFDWARDS

AKIS&LIFEEDl'IOR

EMALuJwARDsu\4@wLuEDU

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2004

Potato ‘Man provides to do/not to do listfor parents  

It’s finally here!!! I have been waiting for this weekend
for over a month. No,.I am not talking about Buffalo Creek,
Christmas Weekend, or Fancy Dress. I am talking about Pay-
day Weekend, better known to the rest of you as Parents’
Weekend.

I call it Payday Weekend. because this is the weekend
that I get paid for all ‘my hard work over the last few weeks,
and trust me I have spent weeks preparing for this event. I
did things no person my age should have to do. I did laun-
dry. I don’t do laundry, but for the sake of
Payday Weekend, I did.

See, most students at this school wait for
Parents’ Weekend to do their laundry so that
their mom can do it for them. I know better.
My chances of getting some cash will increase exponentially
if my mom doesn’t have to do my laundry that weekend. Now

V I am just hoping that I get paid enough money to cover the

countless white shirts that are now pink and sweatshirts that
I shrunk.

My room is now completely different than it was a month
ago. No longer are there pictures of half naked Anna
Kournikova and Marissa Miller covering my walls, but in-
stead there are pictures of family vacations and books rented
from the library covering my desk.

The only thing I stopped short of doing this year was
getting a haircut. I know that this is going to cost me major
brownie points, but my hair is just soifratastic that I didn’t
have the heart to get a trim.

Because of all my hard work, I expect more thanjust cash
from my mom. I expect not to be embarrassed, which is never
a problem. It is never a problem because I have created a “to
do/not to do” checklist for my mom and any other parents
making the trip to Lexington.

W POTATO MAN 3-
MARSHALL RULE

1. Do not tell your child that their friends are really
good looking. This goes not only for moms but more so for
dad’s. Moms can sort of get by saying that their kid’s friends
are good looking; it sounds more like a compliment. But
when dads say that their kid’s girl friends are good looking,
it sounds really creepy. '

2. Going along with number 1, is that you, as parents,
single or married, are not allowed to hook up with your kid’s
friends or their parents. Yes, this seems obvious, but I’ve

heard the stories, so don’t let it happen.

After meeting a girl, do not ask your
son why they aren’t dating her, and visa versa.
However reverse psychology is allowed if you
really don’t want your kid to date a certain
person. “Hey honey, why don’t you ask that girl that’s wear-
ing way too much makeup in the fishnet stockings out on a
date. She’s cute.”

4. Do drink a few Gin and Tonics at the Cocktail par-
ties. Do not hit the Gin Bucket.

5. Do get a little tipsy; you’re spending a lot of money
sending us to college, and you deserve to have a little fun
too. Do not stand shirtless on the bar dancing to “Pour
Some Sugar on me.”

6. When in doubt about whether something is accept-
able, don’t do it. Always error on the side of caution.

I did my part this week, and if you do your part, this
weekend will be very enjoyable for all of us. We have missed
you (and your money) and are glad you (and your wallet)
made the trip. This is the weekend, where we prove to you
that we have been living somewhat like normal human be-
ings.

We are glad to have you, but if you want to come back
next year you better not embarrass me.

EWWWW Gnoss. Parents, don’t pull a Woody Allen this weekend.
Remember not to tell your child that their freiends are really good looking,
even if you think so.

www.thefacebook.com fadsweeps Washington and Lee campus  

~ BY KRISTINE EARLY
THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL

This is my fifth attempt
to sit down and write an ar-
ticle for my column. The
problem hasn’t been
writer’s block. I can write a
thousand words about any-
thing. And because this is a
weekly paper, eventually I
probably will. (lfl start writ-
ing about the mating habits
of white tailed deer, please
Erin Julius, remove me from
the staff.)

And no, procrastina-
tion hasn’t been an issue ei-
ther. I love to write. I look
forward to sitting down
each week and pounding
out a few hundred words on

 

Class Junior Year And Ex-
changed Little More Than
Five Sentences The Entire
Semester, But I Think That
Qualifies Us As Friends” or
“Mr. I Was Really Creepy
Back In High School And
Stalked You For A Full Year,
But Aren’t You Over That
By Now?” See the immense
opportunities for network-
ing here? I mean, it is pos-
sible the Mr. Creepy has
blossomed into the Ulti-
mate Frat Lord. (It hap-
pens.)

Don’t worry.’ I jest. I

FACEBOOK ME! The website wwwthefacebookcom has become a hit on campus since  added to the database on October 26. Pictured from left
to right are “The Milk and Cheese G' ” herself, Kristine  Arts & Life Editor  Edwards; “The Potato Man,” Marshall Rule, Photo Editor Corbin
Blackford; Opinions Editor Caley Anderson; ManagingEditor Chris Lauderman; and News Editor Sarah Murray. All have joined thefacebook You should too.

I

love “thefacebook” just as
much as you. It is a much
.superior distraction to read-
ing AIM profiles. There
truly is no comparison.

  

my trusty Dell lab top
(which isn’t so trusty).

So, since avoidance
isn’t an issue, I haven’t
been taking excessive “wa-
ter” and “bathroom” breaks.
(It’s surprising how thirsty
you get when you are sup-
posed to be writing up a lab
report.)

No, I have yet to write
my article is because I am
too busy poking people.
Yes. That’s right. You heard
me correctly. I am too busy
poking people.

For those of you who
are now thoroughly con-
fused, I’m telling you now,

drop the paper and go sign
on to www.thefacebook.com.
I’m serious. If you haven’t
registered you shouldn’t
be reading this. But more
importantly, if you haven’t
registered, where have you
been in the last week?
Honestly, are you oblivi-
ous? ,
“Thefacebook” has be-
come my new favorite dis-
traction. It is the perfect way
to occupy time. I can look at
my friends’ profiles. I can
look at my friends’ friends’
profiles. Heck, ifI am in a re-
ally desperate way, I can
look at my friends’ friends’

friends’ profiles.
_“Thefacebook” is ad-
dictive. It calls to me. It has
the power to pull me
straight from my deeply en-
gaging textbooks right to
the computer screen‘. I can
see a problem developing
here.
“Mom, Dad, look, I know my
GPA isn’t that great. Look...
It’s not the partying. It’s

something worse:
‘thefacebook’.”
“Thefacebook” is an

insomniac’s best friend. Still
up at 4 am? Don’t worry. You
don’t have to resort to
watching infomercials for

 

U! S

(I) Raise your hand if you missed the deadline for
your absentee ballot.

<1) The riding team cannot be stopped this year.

CI) Day 471: Still no SPE.

(I) $20 says that the election results are delayed
until Thursday, when.\Bush attempts to pull a glock
on Kerry and wins the cell next to Martha S. in-
stead.

CI) Don’t be those freshman who made the Colon-
nade in Chocolate Mousse. A

<1) Weeknight booty calls are sexy.

CI) FYI: Chi Psis DO put out. If you’re ugly, that’s
unfortunate, but even Chi Psis have standards.

<1) I heart Tucker Carlson.

(I) Come next fall, thefacebook.com is going to be

so much more useful than the freshman facebook. .

<1) More on the facebook: The facebook rocks my
world.

<1) Another on the facebook: I hate the facebook.

<1) Last one: thefacebook.com is the best complete
waste of time ever.

<1) Taylor Hanson needs a haircut.

(I) Jamie from texas wants there to be a quick hit
about her.

(I) Has any one seen Megan Ward lately? Love
those red heads. BTW, she’s hot and single.

<1) I suck at eye contact.

(I) 1:22 am on a school night is too late for a booty
call... imean, booty text....

(I) Why is there an article about the Ultimate
Frisbee team that is 3x the size of the football one?
I think the football team demands more respect
than that.

<1) Yeah yankee fans, how do you feel now?

CI) David Ortiz and Johnny Damon are my heroes.
Rock on!

<1) Nabors Network meeting, room 345, 7pm Tues-
day: be there. ’

juicers and food dehydra-
tors anymore. (Although at
four in the morning Ron
Popiel doesn’t look so bad.)

I try to convince myself
that the action of perusing
“thefacebook” every
twenty minutes isn’t a
waste of time. (OK. Who am
I trying to kid? Every ten.
Wait. Don’t judge! You do
it, too.) After all, I am learn-
ing a lot of important
things.

For example, thanks to
“thefacebook.com” .I have
come to the epiphany that
W & L students “like to
party.” This sure was sur-

<I) GOOO RED SOX! WAYTO BEATTHEM CAR-

DINALS!

<1) Brett Strohsacker is too hot for words.

(I) Just so that the intellectuals know: I am not
now nor have I ever been a chicken head. A loud-
mouthed, over—opinionated hottie, yes; chicken

head no. Get it right next time.

(I) Afterrcareful debate we’ve decided that #71
on the football team does indeed have a cute butt.

Go Generals! !

(I) It’s a happy a day in history for Art history
majors. Th e cave paintings in Lascaux, France

were discovered in 1940.

<1) Congratulations to the cross country. team for

winning ODACS.

A <1) Woohoo, today is World Vegan Day!

(I) Happy Birthday Larry Flynt.

(I) I hope we know who the president will be to-

morrow night.

<I) Note to fathers: Just because you are a daddy
doesn’t mean you are a mack daddy.

<1) Way to go‘GAB for bringing in Keller. Good

choice.

<1) Please open the coop at noon on Sundays

prising news to me. And
were you aware thatthe
overwhelming majority of
students on this campus in-
tend to vote for Bush tomor-

I row? Or that “Zoolander” is
a popular movie amongst
college—goers? Can’t you
just see how much insight
I’m gaining?!

The best thing about
“thefacebook” is recon-
necting with people from
high school. I mean, there
is nothing better than
opening up your mailbox
and seeing a message sent
from “Miss We Sat Beside
Each Other In English

“Thefacebook” has pic-
tures. In fact, I feel like a
lowly human being when I
right—click and scroll down
to “Get Buddy info.” It just
doesn’t hold the same allure

anymore. The joy of it has

been sucked away by bigger
and better technological
feats.

I’m sure “thefacebook”
is just a fad. In a month or
two it will be old news.
But, I’ll worry about that
later. I’m too busy for that.
I have the urge to poke
someone.

(1) Dark comes sooner now. That sucks a lot.

<1) I asked John Kerry to be my friend on
thefacebook.com and he didn’t respond.

<1) I poked Clinton on thefacebook, but Lewinsky
poked me back. ’

<1) The only thing better than reading sports, is writ-
ing sports. '

<1) Allgood and Hackett looked awesome ‘as the Reno
91 1 guys.

<1) If the commons staff actually wants people to
come to their events, maybe they should have cho-
sen to show Fox News on Election Night.

<1) What’s up with the College Republicans and the
Young Democrats having a joint elections return
party?

<1) Jon Stewart would be/proud.

<1) Shouldn’t the early morning version of Larry
King Live be Larry King Replay. Just something to
think about.

<1) I sympathize with Ashlee Simpson. I have acid
reﬂux too.

<1) Students AND parents, send your anonymous
crazy parent’s weekend stories and quick hits to
phi@wlu.edu

 

