-1

BY ETHAN JAMESON
STAFF WRITER

Former New York Times editor Gerald Boyd
was the keynote speaker for Washington and Lee
University’s 38th Institute on the Ethics in J oumal-
ism Friday and wooed a captive audience in the
John W. Elrod University Commons with a talk titled,
“J oumalism Today: Why the Public Hates Us (And
What We Can Do About It)”.

. ‘Pulitzer Prize—winning Boyd told his audience

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

  Former NY Times editor
‘exarriines ethics of j oumalists

that in this day and age of excess media, the public
lose trust in the media and that “media exhausts
the public, angers the public,” and highlighted what
he believed the three causes for the mistrust were
while also offering solutions. I
“While journalism is a calling, it is also living
and breathing,” said Boyd who worked with The New
York Times for 20 years, retiring as managing editor in
2003. "”Ihe goal is worthy, necessary and hard.”

see NY Times page 2

To the Student Body,

The process for the facilitated discussions for
strategic planning intends that members of the adrnin—
istration attend, observe and listen without entering
into the discussion. However, in a recent facilitated
student discussion, certain assertions were presented
as fact by students that are at least uniformed and
insensitive and, at worst, racist. It is so troubling that
anyone at our University would hold these views that
the University must break with the prescribed process
and respond forthwith. We emphasize that we have no
reason to believe that these sentiments are held by
any but a few students, but they are so inaccurate and
uncivil that they cannot go unchallenged.

False Assertion

The goal of diversity has resulted in a dimm-
portionatenumber of minority students in the bottom
quartile of the entering class.

Respome

This is simply not true. All W&L students are
qualiﬁed to be here or they wouldn’t have been admit-
ted No concession in admissions standards have been
made to enroll minority students. Ifone looks at all the
elements of the admissions process in their totality
(grades, test scores, essay, recommendations, etc.),

. our minority students are every bit as qualiﬁed as the
rest of the student body. Our goal of increasing the
number of minority candidates with credentials appro-
priate to our student body has brought to our commu-
nity students who have excelled in the classroom and
enriched the University in extra- and c—cunicular life.

Fake Assertion

Financial aid is used to aggressively recruit mi-
nority students and to disadvantage majority students
with superior credentials.

Respome

Minority students do not deprive other stu-
dents of ﬁnancial aid. The overwhelming number of
students atWashington and Lee with a demonstrated
need, are provided assistance.

FalseA$ertion:

Minority students are being sought for the sole
purpose of improving in the rankings.

Rwpome

Therankings of the US. News & WorldReport
(and most other publications) do not consider minor-
ity populations in their methodology.

Regardless, the University’s primary goal is to
provide the best possible education for our students.
Rankings cannot possibly measure that and will there-
fore never drive institutional policy at Washington
and Lee.

False Amertionz

The Honor System is best understood and in-
temalized by majority students.

Respome

The honor of each student is demonstrated by
individual contact and upon that basis, the character
of our minority students is unquestioned.‘ Minority
students lead and participate successfully at every
level ofUniversity life. To single out the Honor System .
as an exception is nonsense. Baseless slurs against
minority students are dishonorable and uncivil and
are unworthy of any student at Washington and Lee.

Looking back to 1986, it is interesting to note
thatthe false facts and baseless opinions thatwe heard
with regard to minority students last week are essen-
tially identical to those we heard about women stu-
dents when the University was debating and then
implementing coeducation. There is no question now
of the wisdom and beneﬁt to W&L of co-educaﬁon
and the same is true of our efforts to bring more diver-
sity of thought and experience to the Washington and
Lee student body. ‘

On behalf of the University, we apologize to
any st11dent who was hurt by these regrettable utter-
ances.Aclassxoom and acommunity with varied expe-
riences and backgrounds is a better learning space
than one made up of a homogeneous population. We
believe in the wisdom of a diverse University commu-
nity and will continue to embody that belief in policy.

We at W&L grow socially and intellectually
because of the diverse contributions of every single
student on campus, without exception.

The Strategic Directions Committee

Tom Williams, Provost

George Bent, Associate Dean of the College

George Canas, Associate Provost

Peter Cronin, Director of Development

Scott Dittrnan, Registrar

Sidney Evans, Associate Dean, School of Law

Joe Giasso, Vice President for Adrriinistration

BillHartog, Dean, Admissions &FinancialAid

John Keyser, Associate Dean, School of Law

Tim Kolly, Interim Director of Communications

Steve McAllister, Vice President of Finance

Elizabeth Oliver, Professor of Accounting

David Partlett, Dean, School of Law I

Lany Peppers, Dean of the Williams School

Jeanine Stewart, InteiimDean of the College

Rob Straughan,Assoc. Dean , Williams School

John Stuckey, Director, University Computing

Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students

Mike Walsh, Executive Athletic Director

PII

VOLUME CVII. , NO. 15

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

Science, Society, and the Arts

=1

Nan
' ' uﬂklmau

BOOK SIGNING. The keynote speaker at the conference luncheon was Alan Lightrnan, bestelling author of
the novel Einstein’s Dreams, published physicist, and MIT writing professor. Lightman is pictured
herei signing an autograph for David Klinger, ‘O6.

SSA is a multi-disciplinary conference involving Washington and Lee undergraduates in the
presentation of their academic achievements before an audience of their peers and the undergraduate
faculty. Conference participants made oral presentations of research papers. \

Peeping pervert peers at Srat girls

BY Ron ARMSTRONG
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

November 4 turned out to
be anything but a typical day. She
was chatting with some friends as
they crossed the sorority foot-
bridge on their way to lunch.
Then she spotted something
she’d never seen before.

With his sunroof open and

' windows rolled down, a Southern

Virginia University student looked
attentively at Landgren and oth-
ers crossing the bridge. He was
masturbating in his car.

“We were walking across
the bridge and spotted this SUV,”
Landgren said, “we were wonder-
ing if he was lost . . . but as I looked
down through the sunroof, I saw
that he was actually masturbat-
ing.”

The vehicle was creeping
slowly on East Denny Circle, just
below the sorority bridge that
connects with the parking garage.
As the male student passed un-
derneath the bridge, he then made
a U-Tum and passed again. .

Landgren and her friends
bolted and ran the rest of the way

to their sorority house, disgusted
by what they had seen. Minutes
later, Landgren phoned Campus
Security to report the incident.
Security immediately tele-
phoned Lexington police, alerting
officers to be on the look—out of a

“...but as llooked down
through the sunroof, I saw
that he was actually

- masturbating.”
CELIALANDGREN

green Ford Escape with Alabama
tags.
VVithin 20 rriinutes, the stu-

'dent was pulled over by police on

White St., not far from campus.

“He wouldn’t say what he
was up to,” said Mike Young, di-
rector of Security at Washington
and Lee.

“Eventually, after we told
him that there were witnesses, the
student admitted to doing ‘what-
ever they say I was doing,”
Young added.

Young’s immediate action

was to permanently ban him from
W&L property. Next, Young
phoned the SVU administration to
report the incident.

The Administration at SVU
was not willing to discuss any de-
tails involving Thursday’s inci-
dent. Yvonne Carpenter, the
University’s Public Relations Di-
rector, said the entire case is
highly conﬁdential.

This incident is especially
sensitive since the Mormon faith
believes strongly in abstinence
before marriage, according to Car-
penter. “This sort of activity is
absolutely appalling  particu-
larly for those of the Mormon
faith,” she said.

The student body at South— .

em Virginia University is report-
edly 98% Mormon, but the insti-
tution operates -independently
from the Church.

The student, a native of
Alabama, is reportedly a Junior.
He is still enrolled at the Univer-
sity and will undergo a hearing
before an SVU honor board.

Landgren decided not to
press charges, believing that a no-
trespassing order was sufﬁcient.

Student leaders respond to alcohol policy confusion with Q & A

Dear Washington and Lee Community,

In response to numerous questions regard-
ing the alcohol policy, several student leaders
drafted a list of questions and answers to help
inform the entire campus. We hope that you ﬁnd
this helpful and encourage you to continue to ap-

‘ proach student leaders with questions and con-

cems.

Katie Henderson, SFHB Student Chair
Maggie Hope, SJ C Chair A

Tom Pickering, IF C President

Mary Jacob Rankin, Panhellenic President
Marie Trimble, EC President

Has there been a change related to the University’s
policy toward alcohol?

There has not been a change related to policy.
The University has, however, asked both IFC and
Panhellenic to examine their current practices and,
where not consistent with policy, have practices
that meet University policy, policies of their na-
tional organizations, and state and federal laws.
What are the policies?

The University policies are listed in each
student’s Student Handbook. Certainly underage
drinking is central to the University’s policies, con-

. sistent with state and federal laws. However, each

Greek organization has different policies and that’s
what the IF C and Panhellenic are currently exarnin—
ing. That is also why national organizations, IFC,
Panhellenic, faculty, and staff are working together.
What is the role of student self-governance re-
garding this issue?

Student leaders are put in a tough position.
They’re elected to uphold University policy while
also attempting to balance the best interests of the
students they represent. The IFC and Panhellenic
have been asked to take a major leadership role_in
examining current practices and bringing them
closer to policy. The IFC knows that the alcohol
policies are not popular, but it understands the grav-
ity of the Board’s requests, and would rather have
students formulate and uphold solutions than have
others enforce policy.

Is alcohol or alcohol use related to the Executive
Committee?

One of the responsibilities of the SJC is to
adjudicate alcohol—related issues. The expectation
is that the SJ C will continue to hear alcohol-related
violations. The SJC refers to the alcohol—policy in
the Student Handbook when reaching its decisions.
The Executive Committee will continue to consider
any case that is turned in, but as stated in the White
Book, the Committee will vote to decide which cases
it takes to a closed hearing. .

Does the University want to be a dry campus?

The University does not want to make W&L
a dry campus. However, the University must make
an effort to uphold the laws of the Commonwealth
of Virginia. Greek organizations, the University, and
even individual students can be held liable for the
consequences of drinking. Lawsuits are common
occurrence in today’s society, and consequently, it
is in everyone’s interest to cut down on the risks
associated with alcohol.

Does the University want to get rid of Greek life?

No. The University wants to retain Greek
life. The University is, however, asking its student

leaders to seriously address issues of alcohol use
and abuse, hazing, and sexual misconduct. Asking
students to take these issues seriously is not an
attack on the Greek system; it's an attempt to make
the Greek system something that will stand the test
of time and survive well into the future.

Has the VA ABC visited President Burish/the
Board/the Administration about underage drink-
ing at W&L?

Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control (VaABC)
has not visited with President Burish or the Board
of Trustees. Representatives from VaABC do work
regularly with University Security and with Dining
Services, as Dining Services holds the University’s
liquor license. VaABC has made it clear to Univer-
sity Security and other staff members on campus
that it wants to work cooperatively with the Uni-
versity community.

Is there a correlation between sexual misconduct
and the enforcement of the alcohol policy?

Policies outlined in the Student Handbook
are intended to create a safe and healthy campus
community. The chance that sexual misconduct will
occur does increase with the use of alcohol, but
the enforcement of policy is a separate issue. The
judicial processes are also separate, as SFHB and
SJC are designed to adjudicate different issues. In
addition to judicial procedures, sexual misconduct
and alcohol use are being addressed through edu-
cation and awareness programs.

What authority is monitoring the enforcement of
the alcohol policy?

The IFC, Panhellenic, and SJC coordinate
with University staff to enforce the University’s
policies.

There is a concern that the enforcement of the
alcohol policy will push underage drinking off cam-
pus, into the country, and increase the rate of drunk
driving accidents, or even increase sexual mis-
conduct. What can you say to this?

This is a primary concern of student leaders.
We know firsthand that parties in thecountry have
a different atmosphere than parties on campus.
Parties on campus occur in a controlled environ-
ment, with sober ofﬁcers and drivers, hired secu-
rity, a prevalence of beer instead of hard alcohol
and grain, close proximity to the Health Center and
hospital, and are within walking distance for a ma-
jority of students. We understand that students
need to be held accountable for their actions, but
we worry that the nature of off—campus parties
places students in difficult situations. We fully sup-
port Traveller and its attempt to transport students
to and from events, but we acknowledge that Trav-
eller is not enough. Drunk driving is an important
issue, but it’s not the only one. We understand the
difficulty of the situation and applaud the efforts
by Greek organizations in attempting to respond to
high expectations. It is our responsibility as W&L
students to make good decisions and to positively
inﬂuence those around us to make the same good
decisions. We all have to be aware of our actions

because they have consequences that extend be--

yond University or Greek policies. In response to
the possible increase of sexual misconduct, we feel
that sexual misconduct can occur anywhere,
whether on or off campus. Our hope is to decrease
the overall problem of sexual misconduct at W&L

through increased awareness, dialogue, and edu- ‘

cation. ‘

  

 

 

 

 (3.  LlI7§l7%,AP.\;
wmsniwottaw R  zUiwnif~:ﬁ%iTV
, (ans ar’31'."I¢\' ‘\/IA '9/U’-‘-‘til

PAGE 2

While U.S. and Iraqi troops were securing a dangerous city called Fallujah
on the other side of the world, about 20 local veterans of gathered in the cold at
Courthouse Square to remember their fallen comrades of wars past.

Local Lexington leaders commemorated Veterans Day in a ceremony hon-

oring the “price of freedom.”

Veterans Day, ‘November 11, is a legal holiday dedicated to honoring
American Veterans of all wars. The city of Lexington commemorated the day
with a wreath-laying ceremony in Courthouse Square.

Delegate Ben Cline, the Lexington area representative to the House of
Delegates, spoke on the importance of veterans throughout our nation’s his-
tory. “Our nation would not be without veterans,” said Cline. American veter-
ans represent the highest example of patriotism in a nation that is a “beacon of
light and hope” to the world, said Cline. Everyday that America s constitution
and democracy marches forward is worthy of being Veterans Day,” said Cline.

In addition to speeches from Lexington leaders, music was provided by
Wonder, a local gospel group. Wonder performed a selection of patriotic songs
including “God Bless America” and “Proud to be an American”.

Twenty veterans and their families turned out for the ceremony. Charlie
Trimble, a local World War II veteran, attended the ceremony with the Veterans
of Foreign Wars Shenandoah Valley Post 1499 of Lexington. This local Post
funds numerous philanthropic events including the Veteran memorial in Court-
house square. Trimble said he was pleased with the ceremony and “though

that they did a splendid job.”

BY WHITNEY DUFFEY
STAFF WRITER

At Harvard, students rub the foot of the
statue of John Harvard for good luck before a test.
At Yale, it is the statue of Theodore Dwight Woolsey
that supposedly boosts students GPA’s. The
equivalent superstition at Washington and Lee is
merely one of avoidance: avoiding the center arch
of Graham Lee’s dormitory. It is a well known su-
perstition that the unlucky student who chances
to walk through this center arch will fail the next
test he or she takes.

In 1904, the original Lees Dormitory was built.
It is difﬁcult to pinpoint when in the dorms 100
year history the arch superstition was formed, but
the belief still runs strong today. It hearkens back
to many widely held superstitions, such as the be-
lief that walking under a ladder causes bad luck.
But why in the midst of serious academia would
such a notion arise?

Thesuperstitions of many cultures link seem-
ingly arbitrary causes (knocking on wood, spitting,
seeing a black cat) with certain effects, such as
good luck, bad luck, or in this case, failing a test.
Whether or not you believe in hocus pocus, the

NY Times

continued from page 1
Boyd stipulated that ﬁgures from the Project’

for Excellence in Journalism were dismal and were,
what he believed, one of the three causes the news
media has received bad publicity and lost the
public’s trust.

According to these ﬁgures, the percentage
of those who believe that the media has a bias rose
from 45 to 59 percent, and the percentage of the
public who believe that the media try to cover things
up rose drastically from 13 percent to 67 percent.

Boyd also pointed out that journalists them-
selves needed to make an effort to change the
public’s perception of the profession and touched
on the scandal surrounding The New York Times
and Jayson Blair.

“The one thing I know more than anything is
the mindset of the joumalist,” said Boyd who added
that all journalists are gossips.

Boyd said that “people are looking for an-
swers and believe that we are failing them,” and cited
the recent presidential elections as an example.

Lexington honors
veterans in ceremony

BY LEAH KERSI-IAW
0 STAFF WRITER

actor Fiction: Examining the

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

    
  

gan last week.

said.

an

 

people who do often receive a certain placebo good
luck. In other words, by not walking under the arch,
you might feel more conﬁdent about the test, and
therefore do better on it.

This isn’t to say you should go purchase a
book of superstitions and dutifully follow each one,
but it does make sense that such a superstition
would form about Graham-Lees, a freshman dorm.
There are many things for a first year student to
adjust to, one of the largest being the transition
from high school academics to college-level
classes. The course load at W&L is, at best, strenu-
ous, a fact which often hits home with freshmen
after the initial sticker shock of their first grades.

The arch superstition then gives students a
means of gaining conﬁdence and a sense of con-
trol over their academic life. This is the most likely
explanation of why this belief is perpetuated year
after year and explains why you don’t see similar
myths attributed to Gaines or the Woods Creek
apartments, where older, more experienced students
live.

So, will avoiding the center arch of Graham
Lees earn you a higher GPA? Maybe, but don’t
count on it. You’d be much better off sticking with
the time—honored method of hitting the books than

However, Boyd also pointed out that in
troubled times, people turn to the media to ﬁnd out
what is going on. Referring to the events of 9/ l l,
Boyd mentioned that The New York Times’ circula-
tion increased 100,000 copies in the first week fol-

lowing 9/ 1 l.

“ W e {C
were giving the Any forces that work
Public What against journalism work
they needed to

against society.”
GERALD BOYD

n a v i g a't e
through con-
fusing times,”
said Boyd.

Boyd also offered solutions to the problems
he sees with the profession and stated that ac-
countability is a key factor in regaining the public’s
trust. He scolded CBS for taking two weeks to “fess
up to the bogus Bush report.

“We need to explain ourselves more often,
and better,” said Boyd who added that journalists
need to restore trust with their readers.

Like many professional journalists, Boyd said

SAIL and Model UN are both sponsoring events this
week. The first event this week is a study abroad sympo-
sium in the Commons Theatre form 7-8 p.m. tomorrow, No-
vember l6. The purpose of the symposium is to encourage
students to study abroad in places around the world they
might not have thought of before.

Stanley emphasized that students do not have to study
abroad in Australia or the United Kingdom because they
only speak English. Students who have worked or studied
abroad in English in locations such as Ghana, Denmark, and
Hungary will speak at the symposium.

Thursday, November 18 in the Commons, Model UN 4
and the knitting club will host a forum on Afghanistan. The
forum will begin at 7 p.m. and will be followed by a reception
for the project “Afghans for Afghans.” Almost 550 squares
to make Afghans to send to women and children in Afghani-
stan have been collected for this project.

International Education week kicked off last week with
the showing of the movie It Takes a Child. Law Professor

Graham-Lees arch myth

International Education Week . p .
Groups to stress international education

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MANAGING EDITOR

Campus organizations are teaming up to bring Inter-
national Education Week to Washington and Lee. These
groups planned two weeks of cultural activities which be-

Mark Drumbl came to the Commons to lead a discussion on
the movie.

International students from Washington and Lee went
to Lylbum Downing Middle School in Lexington and talked
to students about the Mexican holiday Day of the Dead and

» did an art project with some of the classes.

“Each sect of SAIL came up with an activity to bring
international awareness to campus,” Samantha Stanley, Pro-
gram Coordinator at the Center for International Education,

 

COIN BLACKFO  G

relying on architectural structures for good grades.
Consider this myth busted.

that he was worried about the joumalism’s future.

“Any forces that work against journalism
work against society,” said Boyd. “Joumalism is a
profession, and like any profession it must evolve
with the times.” '

Boyd ended his talk by saying that journal-
ism was at a crossroad. “I want to do everything I
can to make it better.

“You’ve got to get it right. We have to do a
better jo .”

Boyd is currently the director of case studies
at Columbia University’s Graduate School of Jour-
nalism. _

During his tenure at the Times, Boyd brought
The New York Times eight Pulitzer Prizes.

Boyd joined the Times from the St. Louis Post-
Dispatch, where he worked his way up from
copyboy to White House correspondent. He joined
the Times as an assistant and then deputy manag-
ing editor supervising the Washington, foreign, na-
tional and metropolitan departments. In 2001 he
was named managing editor, leading a 450 member
news team until his resignation in 2003.

 

Stonewall Jackson
calls for Volunteers

BY ETHAN JAMESON
STAFF WRITER

Lexington’s only hospital, Stonewall Jack-
son, is calling on W&L students to volunteer their
time and efforts, said Karen Jackson, the Hospital’s
community development director, Thursday.

While the hospital is not experiencing a gen-
eral shortage of volunteers, Jackson said “there
are some areas that are in need of volunteers.

“We have a number of opportunities,” said
Jackson. “We have over 32 areas in the building.-
Someone interested in the health or medical ﬁeld
can deﬁnitely move around  and get some expo-
sure in day to day patient interaction.”

Jackson said that not all volunteer positions
were hands-on and that there were opportunities
for some clerical work. Jackson also said that vol-
unteering with the hospital would be a good way
for students to network with medical staff who
could help if the student needed references for medi-
cal school. '

While the hospital has new requirements for
its volunteers, Jackson added that she would “be
happy to take applications until positions are ﬁlled.”

Students interested in volunteering at Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital are requested to contact
Karen Jackson at (540) 458-3564.

From the Executive
C 

November 8, 2004

   

A,}T£t_CII1beI..Qf.Ihe. Stude.nt..B.ody hasdecided
to withdraw in the face of an Executive Committee
Hearing after having been charged with cheating
on a Management exam. ’

Summar IJQEEC ¥:£imorAcﬁvity
for the 2904-2005 Acag emic Year

-Investigations: 3" ‘

-Withdrawals while being investigated: 0
-Withdravvalus  of a C19.sed Hearing: 1
-Closed Hearings: 0  .. L " H

-Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 0

°Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 0
Student Body Hearings: 0

Providing news to wal sinr:e1891

MIRABI MCLEOD, OWNER
CALL: 540-463-1760

AI   G
7 ’ ’   LICENSED, INSPECTED & INSURED

FOR ALL OF YOUR SPECIAL OCCASIONS:
PARTIES, RECEPTIONS, LUNCHEONS, DINNERS

OR EMAIL: MIRABAI888 @YAHOO.COM

 
   

 

463-5888

John 3 :1 6'

BlueRidge

Prrrsrcar. THERAPY
Care with you in mind

72% North Lee Hwy
Lexington, VA
(Coilege Square shopping center)

Specializing in:

Orthopedics _
Sports Medicine
Spinal Mobilization
Post-0}’ rehabilitation

Please call or stop by to speak wirirone ofaur staﬁ"
members with any questions you  have 6071637713738’ }’¢””'
treazmerzt, or your znsurance.

 

Students enjoyed an exotic Indian Diwali Dinner in _
the Marketplace last Wednesday. While students ate, they
were able to listen and watch dancing and a musical perfor-
mance.

The International house hosted a traditional J apanese. .
tea ceremony demonstration and a Thai dirmer. Club Asia
cooked the Thai food themselves. For the first time, the
International House collaborated with the International stu-
dent organization at VMI to make the dinner.

International Education Week was begun by the US
Department of State and the US Department of Education to
help international students adapt to college in the United
‘States and allow them to bring their culture to students at
their university. It also aims to prepare American college
students for studying abroad and future careers in the in-
ternational arena.

SAIL, MUN, the Knitting Club, Club Asia, the De-
partment of East Asian Studies, the International House,
Dining Services, and the Center for International Education
all participated in the two—week event.

All students are encouraged to get involved in the
upcoming events. To join any of the organizations listed
above, contact Samantha Stanley at sstan1ey@wlu.edu.

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

 

TEi;RiN<_;»Tmzl’n'i
STAEE EDITORIAL
‘lis the season to be thankful

To humor our readers, in the spirit of
the season, the editors have decided to
share the things we are thankful for this
holiday season. «

Erin is grateful for going to a college
located next to a school where guys wear
uniforms and for an excellent business
manager. And for Chris.

Chris is thankful for a new printer
and scarmer in the Phi office so he doesn’t
have to run to the Journalism lab every
two seconds and for the new Holiday
Spice Pepsi and Japanese steak houses.
And, of course, for Erin.

Sarah is thankful to go to a school
where-the professors work with you in-
stead of against you, because she
wouldn’t want to pick a ﬁght with De.

Katherine is thankful that the Tigers
are 10-0.

Caley is thankful that Anne cleaned
up his mess and for the best parents in
the history of the universe.

Anne is thankful for her VMI for-
mal date who looks like Ben Afﬂeck and
hugged Erin.

Emily E is grateful that George W.
Bush was re-elected President and for
the delicious eye candy in her econom-
ics class.

Marshall is thankful that only fresh-
men received midterm grades.

Corbin is thankful for not having to
stay in the ofﬁce long enough to help write
the staff editorial.

ChadisthankfulthattheSteelersaie8—l.

Emily H is grateful that there is an-
other paper to work for so she can es-
cape the crazies in the Phi ofﬁce.

Kelly Jo is thankful that both papers
are getting along this year and for her
hot date to the Theta formal.

The Phi staff as a whole, is thankful
for the military service of a certain former
Opiriion’s Editor whose dedication takes
him far, far, away from Lex Vegas.

Happy Thanksgiving Washington and

Lee!

 

“Appoint Senator Kerry ambassador to
France.”

~Don Imus, TalkRadio host on what advice

‘hehadforPresidentBushonhissecondterrrL

Editor in chief
Managing Editor

 

Erin Elizabeth Julius
Chris Lauderman

News Editor

Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photography Editor
Layout Editor

Asst. Layout Editor

Sarah Murray
Katherine Shell
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Emily Edwards
Marshall Rule
Corbin Blackford
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Hulen ‘

David Seifert

Rob Rain

Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson
Yinyan Li

Rohan Poojara
Stephen Lipscomb
Amanda Tholke

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Asst. Circ. Directors

Distribution Dir.
Copy Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or- in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 34]
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fat: (540) 458-4059
Email.‘ phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

CAIEYANDFRSON
OPINIONS EDIIOR

mm m

 

PAGE 3

EC asks for student opinion on hypothetical Honor Violation

Dear Washington and Lee Community,

Last spring the Executive Committee hosted
an open forum in Lee Chapel to address several
Honor—related questions. Following the forum,
the EC discussed several of the ideas that were
presented by students, including the idea that
the EC provide hypothetical situations. The EC
has acted upon this suggestion. The goal in pro-
viding hypothetical situations is to increase dis-
cussion of Honor on our campus, while also al-
lowing the EC to gage student feedback regard-
ing certain situations. We encourage you to de-
liberate on the hypothetical situations and re-
spond through emails to ec@wlu.edu. Responses
will be shared during the EC s regular meet-
ings, held every Monday at 7:30 p.m. in room
122 of the University Center.

Sam, a freshmaitia

Sincerely,

The Executive Committee of the Student Body:

President Marie Trimble
Vice President Cristin Nunez
Secretary Justin Amold'

Members—at—large: Marc Granger, Darmel Duddy,
Craig Hensel, Thomas Worthy, Noble Stafford,
Wheeler Sparks, Charlie Yates, Lane Morgan,

David Cohnan and Margaret Elkins ‘ _

  
   

when his professor aimounced his exam policy. The
professor told the class that the upcoming exam was
closed—book, but that students could use outlines
and notes they prepared on their own. He also told
 ’f11I‘tl1é1"q1!’eSti011“S *ab0'1.:.lt
'  policy; that theyishould contact him. . = A 

 was detemnneéi to ace his Biology 111
ex_am.:;He studied for it  and night. Sam even
practised on oldexarns so that he would be well-
prepatt:£§..Samntas.so.deteimined to exceed the per-
formaiice of his classmates on theexam that lie de-
cided to copy portions  his textbook and pub-
lished science articles intcfg his own notes verbatim.
In the ‘exam, Sam got to miquestion that he was un-
prepat ed to answer. After féonsnlting his notes, Sam
decided to use some of the iriformation that he had
copied"ir1to_,l;i,s\,,,notes in o;i'der to ariswer the ques-
tion. Time was mnniiigorit._  A A

He quickly copied a few paragraphs from the
notes into his exam book. On the front cover of his
exam, he wrote “I have neither given nor received
any unacknowledged aid on this exam,” and signed
his name below the pledge before turning in the

exam. A few days later, the professor sat down
to grade the exams. When he opened Sam’s
exam, he recognized a substantial passage from
Sarn’s exam as being very similar to a passage
from the class textbook. After comparing the
passage in the exam with a passage from the
textbook, the professor determined that Sam
had violated his testing policy by using the
book. He then turned the matter over to the
Executive Committee of the Student Body. Sam
now faces a Closed Hearing before the Execu-
tive Committee of the Student Body. In your
opinion, has Sam committed an Honor Viola-
tion? Why or Why not? What other informa-
tion is needed to answer?

&1;., was in Biology 111

Additional Discussion Questions:

1. Is there a difference between Sam copying
passages from his book into his notes and
copying the passages directly onto the exam?

2. What might have been different had Sam
gone to his professor before copying from
the books?

3. If Sam had acknowledged under the pledge
that his notes contained passages from his
book, would that disclosure mitigate the al-
leged Honor Violation?

1st Amendment also means respecting others’ speech

Maybe you are wearing a ﬂeece one day and you don’t like the idea
that wearing one means you support National Coming Out Week. Maybe you
are a Democrat and find the statement “Democrats love abortion” offensive.
Maybe you don’t agree that another Bush term means four years of poverty.
Guess what? You have no right to tear down someone else’s signs!

I have always uied to live by the Golden Rule:
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
That is why last year, when the campus was plastered
with signs for the “March for Women’s Lives,” although I
vehemently disagreed with the pro—choice march, I did not
touch a single sign. I knew that the minute I tore down a
sign, it would be an invitation to another person or group to take down
Students for Life signs. I don’t touch other people’s signs, so please don’t
take down mine.

I also believe in freedom of speech. We may not like what others
have to say, but we have to respect their right to say it, unless of course the
speech is libelous, explicit, etc. Like Voltaire said, “I may not like what you
have to say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.” This should be
a governing view on an elite campus such as ours. You have no right to stiﬂe
someone else’s right to freedom of speech. You take away someone else’s

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MOUTEVELIS ‘06

right to free speech and it’s only a matter of time before yours is gone, too. So
defend ALL speech, not just speech you agree with.

There are more productive ways of dealing with differences than
anonymous destruction. Instead of expressing your disagreement by tearing
down a ﬂyer, talk to the group sponsoring the sign, go see what the event is all
about or write a letter to the editor about the issue. This
campus can only beneﬁt from increased dialogue and
discussion.

The same goes for non—controversial signs — don’t take
other people’s ﬂyers down! I don’t care if the sign is not
supposed to be posted in a certain area. It is not your job to
take it down; it is the janitor’s or another person in charge of the building. (We
also could use some guidance from the administration as to where the off-lirnits
areas are for ﬂyers) Yeah, the bulletin boards are full, but you can rearrange or
take down signs that have expired. Don’t take down posters that are still
relevant and don’t put your ﬂyer over another. Somebody took the time to go
around campus posting signs and some group has an event they are excited
about want to get publicity for. It’s disheartening to put up signs for hours and
then the next day see a lot of them disappear. Respect others’ advertisements,
and they will respect yours. It’s as simple as that. - I

Letters to the Editor

EC responds to “afﬁrmative action” complaints

Dear Washington and Lee Community,

Last spring, Onyx requested official recognition from the Executive Com-
mittee of the Student Body. Onyx wanted to focus speciﬁcally on the fre-
quently unrepresented views of black students on the W&L campus. Since
last spring, Onyx has co—sponsored social events, hosted a step show, and
has held events for prospective minority students.

The group’s most recent event was a forum to address pervasive stereo-
types that continue to plague our campus, despite educational awareness
efforts. The forum was well—attended by members of the community, includ-
ing representatives from the SJC, EC, Student Affairs Office, faculty, law
school, and the Ofﬁce of the Dean of the College.

Four members of the EC attended the forum, and we decided to respond
to concerns that we heard. Many black students expressed frustration with
the perception that admissions standards are relaxed in order to create diver-
sity on this campus. An administrator in attendance plainly dispelled that
perception, noting that all accepted students meet the same high academic
standards for admission.

Students also expressed disappointment with suggestions made at a
recent Strategic Planning session that the reason the University has been
having problems with the Honor System and speaking tradition is because
diverse students don’t have the same value system as majority students.

These notions are both inaccurate and offensive to many students in
thiscommunity, including students from all backgrounds. We encourage
those persons in our community who disagree with these hurtful ideas to
respectfully say so.

Washington and Lee is renowned for its small classes and lively class
discussions. Students vocalize their insights on nightly reading assignments
and are quick to speak up in class when they have strong political views.
And yet, many students are often silent when offensive comments are made
in social situations.

This silence compounds the hurtful nature of the expressed ideas be-
cause it sends the message to minority students that the entire community
agrees. ’

In a community marked by honor, civility, and academic excellence, we

encourage all students to remember to be respectful to one another in the
exchange of ideas, and to be considerate of the feelings of others. Regard-
less of our individual views, we are all members of the same community
and we should all seek to maintain a place where all students can conifort—
ably pursue excellence.

Sincerely,

Marie Trimble, EC President

‘ Justin Arnold, EC Secretary

Thomas Worthy, Senior Class Representative
Noble Stafford, Senior Class Representative

Phi reader praises last week’s article about Arabic

My roommate is a W&L graduate and he passed on a copy of the latest
Ring Tum Phi to me. I just wanted to tell you how much I enjoyed reading the
Arabic article written by one of your staff writers. I’m in grad school here at
Ohio State U and recently started taking Arabic classes as a side

interest.

It’s encouraging to see that students are interested in cultures and
languages other than the ones they are used to.

I found the article to be well researched and thought it was very well-
written. Well done to the staff writer for writing about something that in this
day and age is of growing importance. I hope that in the future there will be
more coverage in the Phi of the growing importance of such cultures,
especially at a fine college like W&L, which, I have been told, beside being
one of the nations top colleges, does not yet have any European or Near
Eastern Studies program. I wish that I had discovered my interest in the
region prior to attending Kenyon College for undergrad studies as I would
have based my college search on that.

Thanks again for a great read. Keep up the good work.

Corey Tarmer
Columbus, Ohio

Yes
35%

Phi Quick Poll

“Do you think that the alcohol laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia ought to be stringently enforced by W&L upon its students?"

54 students polled, 24 male, 30 female. Poll has 95% conﬁdence in a +/— 5% margin of error

 

No
65%

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

 



Lexington Police Dept. punishes sober drivers, endangers lives

I used to be a sober driver. Perhaps you’ve
seen the red Saturn with the California plates, with
a guy in a Padres cap at the wheel. Since I may be
the only student at W&L who hasn’t had alcohol
during my entire career here, my income while I am
at W&L came exclusively from sober driving. It’s
how I tried to earn some pocket cash. So far this
year, I have earned $250 or so sober driving for
various Greek organization, to whom I am grateful
for the work. V

Let me weave you a tale from last Saturday
night, when I was driving for Phi Delt, shuttling
people back and forth from Poplar Hill. The night
was uneventful until about 12:30am, when a LOT
of people started to need rides from Poplar Hill,

_ which, if
MoDERArE’s MUSINGS Y°u’re un-

‘ familiar, is

CALEY ANDERSON  way out in
K—*"_$) K" the coun-

try. There weren’t all that many sober drivers, and
Traveller was having trouble getting rides out of
there frequently, if for no other reason than the
distance. 4 _

So, I’m doing my best to get people in and out
as quickly as I can, because I’m hearing the usual
cries of “if I don’t get a ride in ten minutes, I’m
driving drunk” and the like. I drive because I need
income, but I also drive because I feel like,I’m sav-
ing lives. Time, therefore, was of the essence. Yet,
despite this, I was pulled over several times last
evening by the Lexington Police Department. The
penultimate time was innocuous enough- there
were a bunch of obviously intoxicated people
hording in front of the Poplar Hill house where Phi
Delt was having its party, and the officers there
were checking to make sure everyone was sober
before leaving and that everyone had a ride. Sen-
sible enough. As they let me go from that stop, the
rather kind and understanding ofﬁcers urged me
to get back as soon as possible, or they feared
there would be either arrests, or people driving
drunk, neither of which they (or I) wanted.

Thus, right after this, I was taking three gentle-
men (students at UNC who were visiting) back to

' Phi Delt, and as I made the turn from Nelson Street

onto Washington Street (that little curvy intersec-
tion at the top of the hill across from the Hampton
Inn), once again I see lights ﬂashing in my rear
view mirror. I’m assuming it’s another sobriety
check and I’m beginning to become annoyed that
the Lexington Police are keeping me from giving
people rides home. The officer asks, smugly, “you
know why I pulled you over, right?”

“No, sir,” I reply. “Speeding,” he says.

Speeding. Now that’s a trip. As I had made
my way up Nelson Street, I reﬂected, I had not
checked my speedometer, nor had I noted the speed
limit. I was going at what seemed like a reasonable
speed, given that there was absolutely no traffic (it
was about 1:30am by now), and that all the lights
were green.

“I clocked you at 43 in a 25 mph zone,” he
said, the mandatory smirk on his face. I tried to
explain the situation, that there were dozens of
people back at Poplar Hill who needed rides and
were threatening to drive drunk, and that I was

just doing my best to keep that from happening.
But no.

“Well, if you had just slowed down, you
would have been fine,” the officer (who shall re-
main anonymous) says, as he gives me the cita-
tion. The citation is a notice to appear in court
on December 28“: which is during Winter Break,
which, intentionally or not, is an effort to keep
me from contesting or even explaining this inci-
dent to a judge and just make me mail in my check.

I don’t know how much I’ll have to pay for
this, but if I just assent to what the officer says
and mail in my check, it’ll likely wipe out most, if
not all I’ve earned sober driving this year. Now
don’t get me wrong, I enjoy sober driving. It’s
not “work” to shuttle very amusingly drunk
people back and forth and to save lives in the
process. But when every single dollar of the hour
upon hour I’ve spent doing this evaporates in-
stantly for such an injustice as this, I tend to
become slightly discouraged.

If I had been “sober” driving drunk? Sure,
pull me over. Arrest me. I would be doing wrong.
If I had been going 43 in a 25 zone with heavy
traffic, weaving between cars late at night?
Sure, pull me over, give me a ticket and a stern
admonishment, I’d deserve it. But when (and
here I’m assuming the officer is telling the
truth) I’m going 43 in a 25 zone with no traffic,

Give students a break with the breaks

photo couriery of antrbo/e. £0.14/e
EQUAL JUSTICE UNDER THE LAW. But is it necessary or fair for W&L sober drivers to be the targets of speed traps?

green lights, and with the knowledge that I
need to move people out of Poplar Hill as
quickly as possible, lest someone decide to
drive drunk and something awful happen, do
I really deserve a ticket? If the officer had
issued me a warning, even, I would have got-
ten the message, and I would have been me-
ticulous about observing the speed limit for
the rest of the night. But no, it had to be a
ticket. Iknow that the law is the law and that
it must be enforced, but does that mean that
officers must completely abandon any pre-
tense of empathy? Does it mean that they
should abandon common sense by hurting the
very people who are keeping drunk people
from driving, when they have an obvious op-
tion to avoid it and to simultaneously ensure
future adherence to the law?

After I pulled away and dropped off the
people who were with me at the time, I checked
the clock. 2:00. I was scheduled to stop driv-
ing at 2:00, but I knew I should keep driving
until everyone who needed a ride got one,
and there were a ton of people back at Poplar
Hill who still needed rides. And then I did
something I know will karmically come back
to haunt me one way or another- I ignored
those people. I drove back to Gaines and
stormed into my dorm room in a huff.

To all those who I left at Poplar Hill, and
to the people at Phi Delt who were counting
on me to come through, I apologize. I wronged
you and I hope none of you caught any
trouble or injury as a result of my selfish an-
ger. '

But damned if this didn’t bring into my
mind the possibility of abandoning sober driv-
ing altogether. The results of my sober driv-
ing expeditions are a net financial loss now,
since I had to pay for gas, not to mention my
higher insurance rates. Also not to mention
the opportunity cost for the work I could have
been doing for my four classes, where I’m way
behind.

I’m not contesting that I sped. I don’t

, know ifl did, but I’ll trust that officer’s word.
I’m contesting the justice of giving someone
in my circumstances a ticket when I’m doing
my best to contribute to the public good (and
at the direction of the officers at the scene
who had told me to get back to Poplar Hill “as
quickly as possible” to give more rides). I
thoughtiat first that I should work at getting
this ticket overturned and to force Lexington
to prove its case against me, but then, I
thought, I more than likely was speeding. It
would be wrong for me to burn taxpayer dol-
lars on my trial simply out of vindictiveness,
especially when none of MY tax dollars would
be going to that trial, being a resident of Cali-
fornia. The right thing to do, the honorable
and gentlemanly thing to do, is to mail in the
check, since I am probably guilty, and since I
trust the officer is telling the truth about my
offense.

But what am I supposed to take away from

' all of this? What’s the lesson the police are
trying to teach me here, aside from the obvi-
ous “don’t speed”? I would have learned that
simple lesson ifl had been issued a warning.
But instead, the message I’m getting from the
City of Lexington is that it’s not worth it to
sober drive. Ifl accidentally speed once in a
very great while, it would cost me less to sim-
ply allow my fellow students to hang and, per-
haps, to drive drunk and kill themselves or
others. What am I supposed to do? It’s pretty
clear to me.

So, congratulations to the Lexington Po-
lice Department, which I actually used to de-
fend against what I then viewed as the unfair
attacks of my fellow students. You win. I’ll
just mail in my check. You’ve beaten me into
the ground by pulling me over three times in
one night (this isn’t even the first time
THAT’S_ happened), the first two for sobriety
checks which I passed with ease, then finally
finding an excuse to cite me for speeding on
the third time, and then scheduling my court
date at a time three days after Christmas when
I’ll be with my family, on holiday in California.
Along with my hundreds of dollars of hard-
earned cash, you get my assumption that the
police will not listen to what I have to say,
along with a very bitter student who is quit-
ting sober driving.

Turkey Day is drawing
near, I have already whipped

' out the Christmas music, and

I have seld_om been so in
need of a break from school-
work. I am a firm believer that
breaks are essential for me
and all college

students. Just

to be able to go

home, spend
time with family,
have a room and
bathtub all to myself, and

_ time for some desperately

needed movie—watching, is a
nice way to get strength and
motivation back for the rest
of the year. Or at least the
weeks or months before the
next one comes along.

In fact, the period of
back to back breaks is about
to begin. Think about it.
First there is Thanksgiving,
then Christmas, and then
Feb. Break all within about a
month of each other. But
then what happens?

The only break for the
rest of the year is Spring
Break. If you a freshman sit-
ting there thinking Spring
Term is itself a six—week va-
cation? and you end uptak-

ing more then one class you ’

will find yourself sorely mis-
taken. Sorry to burst your
bubble. The classes are fun
and intensely—focused, but
the work load is not signifi-
cantly lighter.

So, feasible or not, I
would like to propose some
break amendments. Two se-
rious concerns are foremost

in my mind. First of all, we
are like the only school in the
country that gives a week off
for Thanksgiving, which is
incredible, but only get two
weeks for Christmas (or Win-
ter Holiday to be more politi-

cally cor-

j‘j'j‘""—'—‘—‘ 1'6ClI). I’m
THE BIG PICIURE sorry, but
ANNE FINLEI/‘07 that is Pa-
——~1——~ thetic.Itis
the only

chance each year besides
summer to feel like you are
actually home again, instead
of feeling like some strange
kind of temporary visitor, and
you have to leave as soon as
you are starting to finally
feel settled.

I don’t care what it takes,
take a day away from Thanks-
giving, turn Feb. Break into
“Reading Days”, or simply
have us start the year earlier.
Just let me go home for more
than two weeks at Christmas.
After all, it is known in sappy
holiday songs as the “most

‘ wonderful time of the year”.

Also, the layout of
breaks and semesters as a
whole seems to have some
ﬂaws. It almost seems as if

’our’school.,doesn’t want us
to stay friends with peers._
- feel like thingssho11ld_b,e\_
being constantly adapted

back home.

First there is the afore-
mentioned pathetic length of
Winter Break, which is liter-
ally the only time off during
the year that coincides with
those of other colleges.
Summer is the same way. We
start the school year signifi-

cantly later then most other
schools and thus return as
much as a full—month later.
In my mind, this is just
wasted time. Being more in
line with alternate sched-
ules would be so much
easier and allow for the
possibility of including old
friends in Spring Break trip

plans etc.
And from a summerjob/in-
ternship perspective,

which is extremely impor-
tant considering that the
whole point of continued
education is to move to-
wards a career, getting
home later than other col-

" lege students puts you at a

disadvantage in competing
for jobs.

And the search for in-
ternships in our situation
has to begin well before
summer break, while still in
the throws of stressful
classes.

I don’t see any reason
why most or even all of
these changes couldn’t be
made. Unless there is some
kind of clear purpose be-
hind the way things are,
and not just something be-
ing maintained for the sake
ofgsirnplicity or tradition, I

to fit the needs of the stu-
dent body. .

We, or mostly our parents,
are paying the bills and de-
serve to have a say. Breaks
are wonderful, but there is

still room for improvement.

Problem with Dems was Kerry

Whether you are a conserva-
tive, a liberal, or somewhere in be-
tween, the question on everybody
’s lips seems to be “What happened
to the Democratic Party?" The Re-
publicans secured an increased ma-
jority in Con-
gress and
P r e s i d e n t
George W.
Bush was re-
elected by a majority in both the
electoral college and the popular
vote.

So what went wrong for Kerry?
After all, with a liberally biased me-
dia touting a unpopular war (no, Fox
News and the Wall Street Journal
alone cannot balance things out),
economic struggling (though on the
upswing right now), and an unprec-
edented voter turnout, the Demo-
crats were certain of victory.

But they didn’t win; they
ﬂoundered and they lost. And what
a bitter loss it was for those rooting
to see Bush out of ofﬁce (guess
you can’t call a re-elected president
the “Great Divider’ ’ anymore). So
now anyone and everyone who can
get their hands on a microphone is
hypothesizing about what went
wrong for the Dem’s. Many, includ-
ing the party’s own leadership, are

. saying that the party needs a mas-
sive overhaul, that this election has
shown the Democrats as divided,
vulnerable, and frankly unappeal-

‘\irig"to the general public,

I disagree with this assertion

. (no matter how much I would like to
believe it) and if conservatives take
this rhetoric to heart, then they may
ﬁnd themselves at a disadvantage
in 2008. Yes, the Democrats lost, an
unexpected result for liberals every-

GENERALLY SPEAKING
WHITNEY DUFFEY ‘O8

where and even some pessimistic
conservatives (ie—Tucker Carlson).
However, the Democratic Party is
not a political anachronism whose
strength has faded. In fact, expect
them to come out swinging in 2008
(is anyone look-
ing forward to
seeing more of
Hillary Clinton?).
The problem is
not at the heart of the party and
what it stands for (nor is it the lack
of celebrity endorsements from the
left coast). The Democrats simply
made a few, key, correctable mis-
takes regarding this one election.
First of all, Kerry was the
wrong candidate. Come on, the guy
has a penchant for “X-treme
Sports.” How can you not make fun
of him for that? But seriously, Kerry
didn’t have much middle class ap-
peal._Besides his goofy hobbies, it
was his general style, his wealth
(unlike the “rich but still wear my
blue jeans and cowboy hat” Bush
style), and his aristocratic wife
(can’t you see her saying “Let them
eat cake!”?) that all made it pretty
easy for Republicans to portray him
as just a little bit more European
than good ol’American. Not to
mention the fact that, truly, Kerry
was a very very liberal Democrat.
No matter how much his party tried
to label him as a moderate, his vot-
ing record (when he did vote that
is) didn’t lie. Even look at his choice
for n1’nningmate,John.Edwards; a

personable, attractive, and vibrant 5

young politician who many likened
to JFK. It was a ﬂagrant attempt to
liven up Keny’s image (aren’t Vice
Presidents supposed to be" the bor-
ing ones?) If he needed John

Edwards to stimulate his campaign
(no matter how hip his
snowboarding and windsurﬁng is)
that should have been a clear sign
to the Democratic leadership that
they were going in the wrong direc-
tion.

Besides choosing the wrong
candidate (not like they didn’t have
plenty of choices either), the Demo-
crats basically campaigned wrong.
They placed too much emphasis on
the war in Iraq, the economy, and
national security. So when none of
these turned out to be the n1iser—
able failures they expected, the
Democrats lost their steam. Then
they just counted on the fact that
voters would take the “ Anybody
but Bush” stance and ignore the
fact that an ultra-liberal,
windsurfing, vaguely European
ﬂip-ﬂopper was running on the
Democratic ticket. Oops.

So, while November 2nd was
a triumphant day for the Republi-
cans, I would strongly urge con-
servatives to be cautious in their
victory and not to get too com-
fortable just yet. While John Kerry
and the focus of his campaign
may not have been the right

-choices for this election, the ba-

sic principles of the Democratic
Party are still quite appealing to
many people. Those Democrats
(although I would like to believe
otherwise) will have learned from
their mistakes in four years and
will give the 2008 Republican can-

ididatea rim for his (or herD,rr_oney.
So, unless Hillary is their norni-‘

nee (which will mean the Dems
learned nothing from 2004) don‘t
expect to have seen the end of the
donkey just yet.

I

_ I

R

U

 

 

 

MONDAY, NOVERMBER 15,2004 '

PAGE 5



Keep an eye on W&L green

BY JOHN BOVAY
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s golf
team, although it receives little attention
on campus, is having one of its most
successful seasons in history. The team
has played in ﬁve tournaments this fall
and already has two wins and two third-
place ﬁnishes.

The year started with a September
trip to St. Andrews in North Carolina,
where the team ﬁnished third in a rain-
shortened tournament, losing by only
three shots over 18 holes. In early Octo-
ber, the team traveled to Yale, where they
played one of the greatest courses in
the nation and defeated Division I teams.

After the Yale tournament, the team
kicked it into gear, winning the Virginia
State Championship in Midlothian with
a come-from—behind four—shot victory.
A third—place finish at Randolph-Macon
was a slight letdown, but the team re-
bounded with a seven—shot win at the
McDaniel Ocean City Classic in Mary-
land. I

The team is a young one with three
freshmen and four sophomores among
the nine players on the roster. However,
it is not without strength and experience,
as sophomore Ted Williams (Vero Beach,

I Fla./St. Edwards School), senior captain

Ged Johnson (Darien, Conn./Taft
School) and sophomore Matt Nickles
(Columbia, S.C./A.C. Flora) all earned all-

ODAC honors last season.

In addition, freshman Nathaniel
James (Keller, Texas/Keller) leads the
team with a 74.4 scoring average, just
ahead of Williams and Johnson, who
both average 76.0. James has three top-
three ﬁnishes this year, and has finished
second in the last two tournaments.

The team, ranked 13"‘ nationally by
Golfstat, has seen the results of hard
work this year. Williarns explains, “you
practice so much, you work so hard. . .it
always feels good [to be a champion].”

Williams won the VSGA State
Championship in rnid—October, and at-
tributes part of the team’s success to
the outstanding freshmen players, who
are “pumped about playing and really
want to play well, [which] motivates vet-
erans.” .

Johnson is similarly enthusiastic
about this year’s freshman‘ class, but
also credits the sophomores, particu-
larly Williams and Nickles, for their in-
creasing maturity that has led them to
“blossom” as players this year.

Johnson also believes star fresh-
man James is “an incredibly mature

freshman.” Sophomore Barrett Daws

(Atlanta, Ga./Holy Innocents Episco-
pal) added, “We have solid talent from
freshmen and good senior leadership
from Geddes.”

For many athletes at W&L, athletic
failures leadlto frustration and a diver-
sion of focus from athletics. This team’s
focus, however, has led to success that

Men’s golf team already looking like a threat in ODAC and NCAA

Johnson describes as “kind of like a
dream.” The team’s success has been
so “surreal” this year that it seems in-
evitable they’re “going to
collapse. . . .Every round, everyone plays
well. . .it’s so much fun to be in the spot-
light.” '

The new course in Buena Vista, the
Vista Links, has been a boon for the
team...when ‘they get’ to play it. Will-
iams “really loves it out at BV” and em-
phasizes the quality of their practice
range. .

Johnson agrees about the lacking
facilities at Lexington, the team’s current
home course, and criticizes “the athletic
department for not giving us the re-
sources to succeed. It’s a great course
and we need to be playing it very soon.”

Despite this complaint, the team is
in great shape. Their two wins so far
this year equal the total from the previ-
ous three years, and their 13“‘-place rar1k—
ing tops their ranking at any point last
year. The outlook is bright for the rest
of the season, as the team plans to “pump
iron” and “start pounding some range
balls” during the offseason, according
to Ted Vlfilliams.

This fall, the team has had more suc-
cess than most teams at W&L. After a
mid—season break, the team should be
able to improve on their five top-ﬁve and
eleven top—ten finishes individually.
Look for this team to be a threat in the
ODAC and make a strong run at the
NCAA Championship.

Barker leads soccer
team to strong ﬁnish

 

BY MARSHALL RULE
SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals women’s soccer
team finished off another great year
with an impressive overall record of
12-4-3 including going 8-2-1 in the
ODAC. They were able to accomplish
this feat in large part due to the lead-
ership of senior goalkeeper Emily
Barker.

Barker has had plenty of back-
ground in soccer, playing her first
game in kindergarten. However, it
wasn’t until sixth grade that she
stepped into goal. The state cham-
pion soccer coach saw her playing
basketball and saw her potential as

goalie.

She helped Washington and Lee,
seeded third in the ODAC tournament,
get its revenge against Virginia
Wesleyan. “We worked hard all sea-
son and it really paid off in that game”
commented Barker.

The Generals shut out Virginia
Wesleyan 1-0. Shana Oltmans scored
the games only goal and Barker made
5 saves to protect the lead.

The team’s season came to an
end, however, in a hard fought battle
against top seeded Lynchburg Col-
lege.

Looking back on her collegiate
soccer career, Emily Barker’s best
memory was winning the ODAC cham-
pionship in her sophomore year. “It
was the first championship in the his-
tory of the program and we won it in
penalty kicks after a 0-0 match.”

Barker is very honored to have
been a part of the team for four years.
She is grateful for the opportunity to
play soccer at W&L.

“I’m very thankful to W&L for
allowing me to have the opportunity
to play four different varsity sports.
My soccer memories will last a life-
time. I love this team and wish them
all the best in the future. They are
amazing people and fantastic soccer
players with tons of potential. I look
forward to hearing about another
championship next year!”

 Tuesday  

Vvednesday

0 Women’s Swimming‘
at Sweet Briar — 6:00

Fﬁday

- Women’s Basketball vs. ‘-
Mt. Holyoke (at Brandeis) —— 8:00 ﬁr” . .

Me

   

 

 

  want to baconie a doctcaf’

 
     
  

iswzmmmgj.’  :at,IB_23¥nzs»:awr--2:06 ’
'  -vs. Nazareth

Sunday

0 Men’s Basketball at NYU
Tournament -— TBA

 

to March 1 .p

  Re ality:

\

if you or someone you known wants to pursue a career as a
doctor, apply during the application period of September 1

For more information, visit www.jl1u.ectulpastbac or cal!
41 0-51 6-7748.

e and math com'se-sj,§

“I dan‘t l’12i‘s°‘E the

The Johns. Hopkins F’-‘cost-B.ac£:ai::aur“ea’te Premeldicai Program
prepares college graciuates with strong academic: records to
apply to the best merzlical scheme by giving them the

personal attention, the necessary scienc
and one-to-one academic advising.

required cottages for
n1edica.l srhool. 

 

JOHNS 

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Pragraai

PAGE 6

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STAFF WRITER

Riding on the momentum of the
ODAC championship, the Washing-
ton and Lee volleyball team per-
formed successfully at their fifth
straight NCAA Division HI Touma-
ment. ‘

The tournament included the 48
best teams in the nation and took place
at Emory University in Atlanta on
Thursday and Friday evening.

In the first game, the team easily
downed Maryville with a score of 30-
28, 30-25, 30-23. Emily Wolﬁng, a se-
nior outside hitter, led the team both
on and off the court. Along with co-
captain Jennifer Lux, the two kept the
team mentally focused.

On the court, Wolfmg tallied nine
kills and 25 digs. She was comple-
mented by junior middle blocker Su-
san Gaillard, who racked up eleven
kills and four blocks.

The entire team posted solid all-
around play and displayed the team-
work and talent that makes them so

 

Morton, NOVEMBEL 1_5,2(ﬂ4

SPORTS

Volleyball team
returns successful

successful. With the victory, the
team advanced to the second round.

The Generals were matched up
against Emory, who came into the
game with a 29-9 record. In a very
emotional and hard—fought competi-
tion, W&L fell to Emory in four sets.
Each point was a battle, but the Gen-
erals kept their composure and at-
tempted to rally for the win the last
two sets. Emory held on, however,
and the final score was 23-30, 24-30,
30-23, 27-30.

Emily Wolﬁng again led the way.
“Emily is a huge asset to the team.
Vlfithout her, we would never have
gotten this far,” said freshman Shaun
Edwards. ODAC Player of the Year
Christine Gladysz exhibited her tal-
ent by amassing 84 assists and
twelve digs.

Other standouts of the touma—
ment include Laura Byme, Ashley
Hurt and Taylor Gibson.

The loss ended a hugely suc-
cessful season that included an
ODAC championship, a trip to
NCAA nationals and a 28-8 record
overall.

Cross Country places in op en a regionals

Johnson, Erickson prepare to go to nationals later in year in Wisconsin

BY SARAH BLOOM
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

At the beginning of the year, men’s
cross country coach John Tucker said
that his team “absolutely” had a chance
to compete for the ODAC title. He knew
this opportunity would arise from the
combination of the strong returning lead-
ership of senior Steven Chambers and
some fresh talent from junior Nathan
Johnson, recently recovered from an in-
jured first two years. The addition of
ten new freshmen, including Alex
Mahoney, proved the perfect combina-
tion for the goal at hand.

Coach Kris Hoey of the women’s
team had similar goals for her women’s
team. The team, determined to have a
successful season, put in several miles
of training over the summer. Hoey be-
lieved that this willingness to put the
work in over the summer, along with
“depth and talent. . .the themes of the ’04
team,” would carry the women to an
ODAC title as well.

Returning talent for the Generals
included sophomores Tippins Stone and
Jenny Ratzel. The addition of several
sophomores, including Lindsay
Erickson, Jessica Buckingham, and
Kelley Zwart, were counted on for fresh
talent.

After a successful season of top ﬁn-

ishes, the men’s and women’s teams con-
ﬁdently traveled to Harrisonburg, Vir-
ginia to compete for the ODAC title.
Tucker’s and Hoey’s determined teams
came through and both respectively
claimed the top spot at the competition.

On the men’s side, as anticipated,
Johnson won the race. Johnson remains
undefeated in the 2004 season. He was
named ODAC Runner of the Year and
ODAC Men’s Cross Country Scholar-
Athlete of the Year. Mahoney followed
closely, claiming the second place finish
for the Generals. Freshman Andrew
Friski also claimed a ninth place and all-
ODAC performance finish for the team.

On the women’s course, freshman
Lindsay Erickson claimed a first place
finish and sophomore Tippins Stone
secured the title for the Generals with a
close second. Erickson was named
ODAC Runner and Rookie of the Year.

This was the first time since 1994
that the Generals have claimed both
ODAC titles. Coaches Tucker and Hoey
were both awarded ODAC Coaches of
the Year for their teams respective per-
formances.

As ODAC champions, both teams
qualified for the South/ Southeast
Regionals in Atlanta, Georgia on Satur-
day. “We’re all excited aboutregionals,”
said Stone before leaving for the com-
petition. “Only the top team goes to
nationals and the top five individuals,

and there are 21 teams competing, so
we’re focusing on the Virginia teams
we’v,e raced before.” The teams are also
looking to be named Academic all—Ameii-
can which requires an average GPA of
3.5 and a top 25% finish in the race.

In Atlanta, Johnson again led the
General’s claiming a first place finish in
the race and an opportunity to compete
at nationals in Wisconsin on November
20"‘.

Johnson said, “Going into the race,
Coach Tucker and I decided that the
main goal would be for me to get top 4 in
the race and guarantee a spot to nation-
als. .. I guess somewhere in the fourth
mile I took over the lead from Emory’s #1
which was pretty exciting‘ cause I was
like, ‘Wow I can actually win this.’”

Mahoney and fellow freshmen Tom»

Brower claimed the second and third
place finishes for the Generals with a 21*‘
place, and 31*‘ place finish respectively.

Freshman Lindsay Erickson, in only
her second year competing as a runner,
placed third for the women, also earning
a chance to compete at nationals. Jun-
iors Debra Kubas and Betsy Frayer
claimed the next two places for the Gen-
erals with 50“‘ and 51*‘ places respec-
tively. ‘

The men finished in 6"‘ place and
the women in 9”‘. Johnson and Erickson
will now prepare for nationals in Eau
Claire, Wisconsin.

 

  
   
 

  bore,

   
 
 
 
 

  seasoiisince 1995
' and its _ﬁrs£,‘$ix—win.season- since 2985
 I I .Victéi%¥ov¢r.Gr¢e!¥Sb0r°C°1-
A, page   in Greens-

  

     

W&L Womeifs Swimming

Defeats Guilforri, 108~84,

and Holliiis, 1’74~58 (11/23)

The Washington ‘and Lee women’s
swimming team improved to 5-2 overall
and 4-0 in the ODAC with wins over
Guilford, 108-84, andﬂollins, 174-58, on
Saturday‘ afternoon at Hoilins Univer-
sity in Roanoke, Va.

. W&L Football Places Five on

Academic All—District Team (11/11)
Five members of the Washington and
Lee football team have been selected to
the COSIDA Academic All-District III
team which was released on Thursday
afternoon.

=pAS.T W E E K ’ s SPORTS IN B R I E E .. .

W&L Womeifs Basketball Picked

Seventli in ODAC Poll (11/11)

The Washington and Lee women’s bas-
ketball team was picked to ﬁnish sev-
enth out of 11 teams in the Old Domin~
ion Athletic Conference Preseason
Coaches Poll which was released on
Thursday afternoon at the conference’s
media day.

Write
Sports
for
Marshall

e-mail

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
' Rnphlne, VA 24472
scomszzo - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the °r°°k_
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yai-ns.'kilS.__!jl¢>6d1*$ and
accessories. Custorner service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made WY-

CﬂforworkdIop&dasslnfoI'm1Iﬂ0ﬂ-

Halfway between Lexington and SIIIWIIOVI
0n I-81 / I-64 a! exit 205, Ranhinl. 49711758 W051 0"
Rom;   Road. Located Una W075”
farm that ofers "U-PICA” oppoﬁﬂniﬁlsfo’ fmh
fruit when in season.

'llies - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed until 8:00
:ﬂMm 

  

  
 

ma Ri%rLSfu Ping

 

LIFE

EMILYEW/Arne
ARlS&I.lFEEDl’IOR

Ewu_~EDvnrDsavr@vvtun1i

PAGE 7

Washington and Lee students: embrace your elite status


_ MARY CHILDS ‘08

As we are all aware, Washington and Lee University has a
bit of a reputation. For academic excellence, you say? Of course,
but that’s not what I’m discussing here. Oh, then that whole #2
in the nation thing? Also true, but no.

No, I am referring to the classic W&L reputation that we are
all snobs. We are, supposedly, cocky in our own abilities as
student, partier, winner—of—the—Civil-war, and God knows what

else, and we tend to wave this flag of arrogance wherever we go. I

I, personally, have found this generalization to be all too true.
People at Washington and Lee are, in fact, snobs. And with
good reason.

A while back, a few of my friends and I decided that it would
be a good idea to maybe visit some of our other friends at other
schools, for a change of pace, and, since they had visited us so
damn much, it was kind of our turn. So we pile in to the car, all
ready for a superfun evening at this college’s “Homecoming” —
I won’t name the college, to protect its reputation as “fun.”

We honestly did try. We danced around, met new
people, we laughed and we cried with high school buddies,
we went to a concert and listened to the music, we really
tried to do it. But by the time the clock struck twelve, I
could deny it no longer. I wanted to go home.

Finally it came down to the fact that if we left soon, we
could be in our beds and happy and therefore preserve the
potential fun of tomorrow night, instead of not sleeping
tonight and sacrificing the whole weekend to Awful Home-
coming_Night/Pretending to Enjoy This.

And yes, I know that we were certainly perpetuating the
image of the W&L snob, as I leaned on a wall with a sneer on my
face that said “I am just too cool for this,” when really I meant “I
am just too tired and bored to pretend I am having fun.” But, as

‘ we drove home at 2:30 in the morning, singing ourselves awake,

having more fun in the car ride home than that entire night, the
truth was as apparent to us as the road kill we dodged. Maybe
we act all superior  because we are.

I mean, let’s be logical here. The admissions process
picks out the best and the brightest. Those that get into
schools such as Princeton and Harvard usually go; we’ve

/"'
 Criifﬁceton
Review

The Smart
_. Students

  
   

- 710,000 students speak out
about their colleges’ classes.
professors. dams social
scenes, sports. and more

5 Everything you Media knew
about admissions and
ﬁnancial aid

 
  

Asvseen an the
TODAY SHOW -check our Mrm your
' pmspa-ctiva cottage: rank

In our top 20 lists

   

 
 

* , Sonar! Firm:-k..‘ vni:i;- .1:-n-o Me-;r.-er. rt :1
COURTESY OF BARNESANDNOBLECOM

WHERE’s rm: SNOB RANKING? Washington and Lee would rank #1 for
elitism if the Princeton Review ranked it. Just visit your friends at other
schools and find out for yourself.

just weeded out all the losers. Add in the Princeton Review’s
free advertising of our superior socializing abilities, and
chalk up another point to the “cool” factor. So we’ve got
that edge, too. Clearly, Washington and Lee has struck a
perfect balance between smart and fun. To those schools
that are smarter than we are, we can stick out our tongues
and toast to our ever-bettering social skills. To those
schools that claim to have more fun, we can employ their
students later.

 

Now, I’ll admit, friends of mine that go to other schools do
love it there. But come on — it’s college. Of course they do. The
only thing is, not everybody loves their school as consis-
tently and as adamantly as we do. Friends in North Carolina
complain of homesickness; friends in the mountains of Vir-
ginia complain of overpopulation, easy classes, nasty peers.
I try to sympathize. I listen hard, and I put on my best sadl
interested face, and nod when appropriate, but underneath
it all I am just confused. Why is your school not like mine?
What went so wrong there that is so right here? And then I
feel bad when my complaint storage is empty and I have
nothing to offer my sad Other-College friends. Somehow,
throwing out “um, sometimes our free safe-ride Traveller is
s1ow...and I have to wait” just pales in comparison.

So really, I think I’m glad I went on that horrible college
trip. I took away some valuable lessons from it, for which I am
very grateful. Having been here for a while, I had started to
get used to my surroundings. I wanted to complain with the
cool Upperclassmen, too, when rides were slow and lines were
long. I, too, complained about workloads and conflicting
schedules when I know for a fact that I am a perfectly happy
camper and that the aforementioned worries probably won’t
faze me. There is an innate danger in_getting used to all of
this around me.

Without my trip to Loserville University to show me oth-

- erwise, I might have forgotten to appreciate the wonder and

glory that is Washington and Lee University. The five of us
that drove up to Not-As—Cool U. and turned around and drove
back, we know. Now when we’re standing in the cold quad
like the awesome freshmen that we are, we’ll remember that
we are being treated like princesses,‘ and we will shut our
mouths when tempted to bitch about the wait. Not to get all
sappy, but sometimes I forget how this place looked when I
first visited, and how jealous I was of the Uber—chic college
kids strolling around in their Birkenstocks and popped col-
lars.

I am happy to be surrounded by really smart people, to be
able to carry on intelligent conversations even when my com-
panion won’t remember it, and to be able to safely assume
that even though you may be partying too hard to keep your
head up, you’re probably brighter than I am. And I appreciate
that. In short, Washington and Lee has earned its reputation
as being elitist because its students are elite. And there’s
nothing in the world wrong with that.

Th's Thanksgiving, don’t forget to be thankful for the small hings in your life

79

rain.

Yes, I know it sounds cheesy, but it

BY EMILY EDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Sitting on the kitchen table at home is a
little ceramic jar with the words “Thariksgiv—
ing Cup” on it. Before you eat, you’re sup-
posed to put a coin (or two or so) in it and say
something that you’re thankful for. When the
jar gets full, my family donates it to some char-
ity usually the benevolence fund at church.
Over the years, people have given me serious
grief over this cup. They say, “You’re making
me pay for my meal.”

The cup’s original purpose was to keep
me humble. When I was little, I had a greedy
streak. I wouldn’t share and was generally
ungrateful. When my parents first putthe cup
in front of me, I was really pissed off. Why
should I put a quarter in this stupid jar? I
said something stupid, like “I’m thankful for
the ’air—conditioning.” And thus the tradition
began. We would say things like, “I’m thank-
ful for my health” or “I’m thankful for the

made me think of so many things that I take
for granted.

It was through this cup, though, that I
began to grasp the true meaning of Thanks-
giving. Sure, I enjoy the turkey and dress-
ing, sweet potatoes, green beans; the list
could go on and on. But Thanksgiving holds
a deeper meaning thanjust food. For me, it’s
coming together as a family and realizing how
God has blessed_ us.

And even though I’m not from Dallas (my
Aunt and Uncle live there— does that count?),
I enjoy watching the Cowboys play.’ Friday
means true drama: My cousin, an Aggie, some-
how managed to marry a Longhorn. And so
Thanksgiving means healing deep, cavern-
ous football—esque rifts. As for me, I always
just brave the crowds and escape to the Gal-
leria. My dad seems more willing to accept
my massive credit card bills around the holi-
days

Last Thanksgiving I was thankful to be
passing Chem 111. As I recall, that response

accompanied each coin that I put into the cup
for many days during Thanksgiving and
Christmas breaks. And this Thanksgiving,
I"’_m thankful that my dad is alive and healthy
after having a massive heart attack last year.

It’s easy here in MicroLex to lose track
of what’s going on in the real world. We live
in a bubble of sorts, complete with kegs of
blue beer and kegs of red beer. I guess Demo-
crats have to drink too.

‘ And this Thanksgiving, whether we be-
lieve that America should be fighting in Iraq,
we ought to be thankful that» there are so
many troops willing to put their lives on the
line to protect this wonderful country we call
home. And, in light of the recent election, we
should be thankful that we do not have to
listen to takes of “hanging chads” and “but-
terﬂy chads.”

But as for the Thanksgiving cup, I may
tell my parents to pass it around at the next
dinner party that they have. I did see a pair
of shoes online that I must have. Does that
count as a charity?

PI-I01" O COURTESY OF WWW/.ARMY .M1L

AN ARMY or ONE. This Thanksgiving, be thankful for
the thousands of men and women who put their
lives on the line to protect our country.

Cruise!

From $459

1-800-678-6386

Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party

5 Days $299! Includes Meals,
Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica

Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTravel.com '

Parties! J-

 

ATTEN QM ALL

It is your class that will run
the 2008 Mock Convention.
Are you interested?

Please join us for an information
session.
Tuesday, November 16
7:00 pm _ ,
Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library

Spring Break 2005
Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts.

New Opticians

Extreme Fun!

For all your vision needs

203 N. Main Street, Lexington, VA

www.newopticians.com

Boutique

Oakley
Maui Jim

come to

540-463-7440

    

   

    scam-r rntnrme,

g»... -:..______...I-

EMBROIDERY
464-9042

£137 ‘Weddell St.

Lexington Va.

$450 Group Fundraiser Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS

- $1000-$2000 in earnings for your group.
Call TODAY for a $450 bonus when you

schedule your non-sales fundraiser with
CampusFundraiser. Contact Campus
Fundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa
Rica. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
end|esssummertours.com

  

 

 

THE

PAGE 8

  
 

’fE‘H£~i FUN ;~:1i;;\«r Pill

AST ORD

FN1LYF.owARos
ARlS&LlFEEDlIOR
EMA1LE)wAR1m4@\xuJE>U

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2004

Forgetbeing thankful— what are you not thankful for?

I consider myself a very grateful person. I say my thank
yous and always do my best to writethank you notes. If some-
one helps me out I try to remember that so I make sure to return
the favor one day. '

However, there are a few things that I am just not grateful
for. There are some things that I wish had never been invented,

some events I wish never would have taken place, and some '

people that I wish never would have been born.

So, since it is getting to be Thanksgiving time, I figured I
would “unthank” anything that I am not grateful
for. I know it sounds a little anti—Thanksgiving,
but I figure since I have been pretty grateful for
everything else inmy life, I deserve a day of con-
tempt.

-1. I hate it when people use big words that I
don’t know. People will tell a joke with a big word
in it, and I won’t understand the punch line. But I have to laugh
because everyone else is laughing, and they would wonder why
I wasn’t. So then after everyone has left, I will ask someone
what that word meant, and then I will finally understand the
joke, but by then it is too late to fully enjoy it.

2. I also despise watching sports on FOX. While I do enjoy
the Sunday pre-game show forfootball, I cannot stand to watch
the actual game. This feeling was lamented during the baseball

- playoffs when they kept coming back from commercials late and

sharing all their stupid-worthless facts they felt necessary to
tell me, like whenever a starting pitcher is pitching at home ex-
actly 68 days after their wife has given birth, they will win, un-
less of course, the opposing team’s batboy’s name starts with T.
Thanks a lot FOX for ruining sports for me forever.

3. I am not grateful for the desks in the Colonnade class-
rooms. I am no longer majoring in history for just that reason. I

POTATO MAN
_ MARSHALL RULE

could never spend 3 more years in Newcomb listening to lec-
tures in those desks that have been around since Robert E. Lee
was president. Those chairs are simply not conducive to sleep-
ing in, and therefore I decided to find a major that is in the C-
School. .

4. I hate coloring books. I was never good at coloring as a
child and all the other kids made fun of me. They teachers told
us to stay inside the lines, but I was a child who needed to be
free from rules and restrictions, so I disobeyed them, and as a
punishment was forced to undergo severe public
humility. Ever since that moment I have been
scared of them, and I also hold an intense hatred
for any kid that is good at coloring. '

5. I hate apples that aren’t red. I don’t know why
this bothers me, but it does.

6. I have never understood why some windows
on campus are painted shut. This is just stupid. Windows are
made in such a way that enables people to open or shut them at
will. I figure that the school has paintedthem shut as an attempt
to control temperature in classrooms. However, B&G doesn’t
have to sit in some of those classrooms and deal with the in-
tense heat for two hours. Then again, if painting them shut was
done on accident, well, that is just stupid. " j

7. I hate computer viruses and hate the people who make
them even more. Seriously, who does this? It is sad to think that
there is some 34 year old guy in New Jersey who has never been
on a date, and gets off on the fact that he has successfully
created a virus that has infected thousands of computers across
college campuses. Congratulations Mr. Nevergonnagetlaid, you
are a true American Hero.

8. I really hate lasagna.

9. I get really annoyed at the people that get really dressed

 

MMMGOOD. Who couldn’t like a tasty plate of Mom’s home-cooked
lasagna. Obviously, the Potato Man doesn’t.

up to go to class. I’m not annoyed that they got up early and
take care in their appearance, but rather, I am pissed that they
make me look bad. I’m in college, I don’t like to get up early, I
was up the whole night before studying for my econ test, so
when it comes time to go to class at 9, I’m rolling out of bed, and
wearing whatever I fell asleep in to class. When the professor
walks into class, I’m already at a disadvantage because you’re
wearing a three piece suit and I’m wearing my K-Mart sweats
and a NASCAR t—shirt. So give me a break, pretend you’re a
college kid, and don’t wake up two hours before class to do
your makeup. ‘
10. I hate people that hate.

I know I’ve only been an official W & L stu-
dent for two and a half months. However, I al-
ready consider myself to be an expert on
LexVegas. Between you and me, there isn’t much
to see. I have been there, seen that. . . .. (I’ll leave
the last part off lest it be misconstrued). That
said, it is time to release “The Milk and Cheese
Girl’s List of Favorite Lexington Sites.”

Before you start writing angry letters to the
editor, keep in mind that this list is not endorsed
by Ring Tum Phi. It is the intellectual property of
the Milk and Cheese Girl. The hot and single
Milk and Cheese Girl. (Haha. I’m just joking with
you. I’m not desperate. But did I mention that
I’m hot and single?) Alighty, then. Now that I
have taken full responsibility for this column (and
thrown away my dignity), let’s give it a go.
Drum roll, please ....... ..

“The Milk and Cheese Girl’s List of Favorite

Lexington Sites.” (So official sounding, I know.) i

In no particular order:

1) The Lodge: One can’t go wrong at the
Lodge. The guys are great, and the President’s
room is the place to be. Plus, it is only a stone’s
throw away from the dorms. Freshman: you can’t
get lost on your way home. (Or can you?)

2) Nine Tucker: You can’t find Nine Tucker?
I’ll give you some help: it’s on Tucker Street.
What a concept! (It honestly took me about
three weeks to figure that out. Sad. Sad, but
true.) The residents of Nine

able price. Thank you, Stop In. I heart you.
4) Munster: I love that house. I don’t know
why, but I do. Just trust me

Tucker are awesome guys and
always up for a good time. Plus,
they have cats. Friendly cats.
Bonus points for the neighbors.

THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL
KRisnNE EARLY

'on this one. It is right
across the street from the
post ofﬁce, so get off your
lazy @%" and visit.

(I’ll throw in a free geography lesson: Eleven
Tucker is also on Tucker Street. I know, I’m so
very helpful.)

3) Stop In: Stop In, oh how I love you. You V

are always open to serve my nutritional needs,
be it at one in the morning or four. You offer a
delightful selection of munchies for a reason-

5) Pi Phi: DJ parties
rock my world. ‘Nough said.
6) Salemo’s: Get the chicken parmesan sub.
It is the sole reason I transferred here. You think
I’mjoking, but I’m not.
7) Joyful Spirit: Doesn’t a place_named J oy-
ful Spirit immediately bring a smile to your face?

CORBIN BLACKFORD/ Ring-tu_m P/ii

If your answer is “no” you are a heartless freak
of nature, but don’t worry because Joyful Spirit’s
food will “turn your frown upside down.” (How-
ever, you still may require counseling.) Try a num-
ber one. Muy delicioso. (A little language lesson
for you all... My column is so educational!)

_ 8) The Ice Cream Factory: I can’t believe it
stays closed all fall and winter. The milkshakes
are amazing (and I would know... The Milk and
Cheese Girl) and reasonably priced.

Side note: I am beginning to feel like a food critic.
Tasty! Spicy with a hint of parsimony! (By the
way, what the heck is parsimony? Did I just make
that up? And wouldn’t I be awesome on the Iron

 

  Best and Worst: The Milk and Cheese Giri weighs in on her favorite Lex destinations

Chef?)

9) The Fitness Center: It’ the sole reason I
can down chicken parmesan subs and Stop In
hot dogs. And when I’m lucky I don’t have to
watch football or Judge Judy on the TVs.

10) The Elrod Commons: I love to plop down
with my books and notes and attempt to study.
Once I made it an hour and a half without reading
a single page. That may be a record. No, wait, it
probably isn’t. There are far better procrastina-
tors than I.

A l 1) The Science Library: When I do actually
feel like getting work done, there is no better
place to go. And don’t steal my study spot! It is
very upsetting to see someone curled up in what
is so obviously my chair.

12) Wal-Mart: Wal—Mart has everything a
person could ever possibly need. It may kill 10-
cal mom and pop stores, but who cares? It’s
cheap! You know your life is pathetic when a
trip to Wal—Mart is the excitement of your day. I
personally enjoy the one on one contact with
the locals. ‘

13) My suite: The décor in the common room
may be lacking, but I love my suitemates. The
inordinate amount of pink in my own room makes
me happy. Plus, I have a papasan chair. What
can beat that?

Sorry if you didn’t make the list. I guess
you’ll just have to try harder to impress me for
next time.

Addendum to “The Milk and Cheese Girl’s
List of Favorite Lexington Sites” — “The Milk
and Cheese Girl’s Least Favorite Lexington
Sites”:

1) Leyburn Library: It’s hideous!
2) Leyburn Library: It’s a monstrosity!
3) Leyburn Library: It’s an eyesore!

4) Leyburn Library: It’s a blemish on the face
of the earth! (Honestly, how can we permit such
an ugly building to desecrate the beauty of our
campus? )

 

Q Dear Administration, Don’t ﬁx what aint broke.
Q Freshmen girls — stop rushing so hard. Don’t

tell me what you’ve heard about my sorority and
don’t tell me what sorority you want to join. Chill.

Q Someone tell James Heidbreder after his article
in the Trident to stop lecturing upperclassmen.
Presidents have had an open door policy here for
years, its not Burish’s thing. A

Q Social Probation’s debut Saturday night was
amazing. They are a great band.

Q I love how this school is selling its identity to
apease the rankings. Kind of ironic for a school
based on honor and integrity.

Q Southern Comfort, confirm our friendship.

Q Charlie, please start sharing your music again
so I can listen to Breathe by Fabolous.

Q I just don’t ﬁnd anything funny about projec-
tiles or missiles.

Q Dipping tobacco around people who are eating
is almost as bad as smoking around people who are
breathing.

Q Congratulations to Hugh and Balsak on their
engagement.

Q December is Virginia’s “Crapping in the kitchen”
month. Or it should be according to Sassyhat.

Q I once heard a guy use the pick up line “Well if it
isn’t little Miss Slut Slut.” Sorry, that line doesn’t
really work.

Q “November 11: The Interfraternity Council
passes a resolution that bans dancing in any house
on Sunday. The rule is to be strictly enforced in
the early morning hours.” It happened once and
will again if we don’t ﬁght for our Greek system!

Q Yo! I actually got an ‘E’ as a letter grade on my

English quiz! I’m not even upset... That’s just
awesome!

Q I heart Thanksgiving Break!

Q Yo Gritter, get your facts straight before you
hate on the Skins. Trotter and Barrow were never
on the same team.

Q Things are either ON purpose or BY accident,
not “on accident”...get it right.

Q Professor Allgood, I’m sorry I didn’t do my ge-
ology homework.

"Q Parents Weekend is a very questionable time to
spend the night at a Fraternity House.

Q Young Democrats, have you ever seen an Old
Democrat?

Q Today is America Recycles Day, throw some-
thing in the recycle bin.

Q The first Halo video game turns three today.

Q Happy 47th Birthday to Kevin Eubanks of the
Tonight Show band.

Q The gravity of my need to graduate hit me to-
day. If I don’t graduate the sheep for my diploma
will have died in vain.

Q Congratulations to Nathan Johnson for win-
ning Cross Country Regionals. Good Luck at na-
tionals!

Q Boycott Ben & Jerry’s. They had an efﬁgy of
Bush outside of their factory.

Q No one ever break up with the Editor in Chief,
she’ll recover splendidly and rub it in yo’ face.

Q I heard someone say that they loved the midwest
this weekend. I guess someone has to.

Q Hey boys, Christmas Weekend is the weekend
after Thanksgiving break. Start thinking about ask-
ing someone now!

Q When is it going to snow?
QVI do not like fuzzy bunnies.

Q There has been far too much sexually charged
humor on the Washington and Lee campus. This
is surprising, considering the large number of ran-
dom hookups that take place. Aren’t you people
ever satisﬁed?

Q Do you ever feel like hitting somebody? I do-
you better watch out.

Q Benjamin McKenzie is dating an 18 year-old.
Why couldn’t he have picked me?

Submit your anonymous quick hits and crazy
Thanksgiving stories to phi@wlu.edu.

 

