U3
.>‘lt8~l_d

 
 

n3< 7o’l3
l"t0°

‘V

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

s

 THE RING=TUM PHI.  

    

Okay to go! ,

VACO takes the stage in
Charlottesville. Find out more
information about how toghear the
popular band in concert on page 4.

KoI|y’s Creative Comeback
University vice president reacts to Ian
Dickinson’s poem from last week’s
issue. See page 5.

Fast food '

Still looking for a place to eat before
Fancy Dress? See page 4 for our
opinion _on where to go and what to
avoid!

HOT TICKET

 

Party like the Pharaohs

After much anticipation, the long-
awaited Fancy Dress will be held on
Sat., March 19, from 9 p.m. until
1:00 a.m. at the Warner Center under
loads of Egyptian decorations.

Rae of sunlight

Lexington’s favorite local singer
Arum Rae will be playing her
soothing music at the Jordan House
on Fri., March 18, frorr_1 8-lQ_p_.m. pp

Pretty in Pink

The trippy “Pink Floyd: The Wall”
will be running in the Commons
theater on Mon. March 14, at 7 p.m.
and Tues. March 15, Thurs. March
17, and Fri. March 18, at 9:30 p.m.

SIMPLE LIFE

Reclaim your life

Whether you’re still "catching up from
pledgeship or starting to drown in
work as the term begins its ﬁnal
stretch, its time to buckle down and
get caught up with work. But don’t
let Fancy Dress be your last chance
for a good time this terrnl Here are
some ideas to start the feelings of
spring term that can still facilitate the
workload of this term:

I Gorgeous day and you get out
of class a little early? Use that extra
time to lay those books aside for
some pink lemonade on the

. colonnade.

I It’s Thursday night and you’ve
got work to do? The Blue Heron Café
has live music every Thursday night
that usually falls into the folksy .or
mellow genre. Take your books and
laptop, order a cup of hot tea, and let
the artsy environment feed your
motivation to focus.

I On that same note, The
Lexington Coffee Shop has an open
music forum on Wednesday
mornings starting at 8:00 a.m. Grab a
latte and a muffin for breakfast,
huddle down with your last minute
homework, and cram for your exam
to some laid-back tunes.

I It’s late at night. You’ve been in
your room working all day and
you’ve ﬁnally gone stir-crazy. Get in
the car and hit the highway. Blare the
music, sing out loud if you must, and
see the Blue Ridge Parkway when
you can truly appreciate the peace
and solitude.

I Sometimes, the best thing you
can do to recharge your batteries is
just go to sleep. Sounds simple, but
closing out of instant messenger and
the Facebook isn’t as easy as it
sounds. I

 

Tragedy struck during Wednesday
in the Lenfest Center. Lighting and Design
students working in the Johnson Theater
were alerted to an emergency when
technical assistant for the Lenfest Center
Stephanie Diggins ran to the class and
explained that Lenfest Director Michael
Gorman had fallen in the larger Keller
Theater, and asked students to «call 911.

Students Lisa Miller, ‘05 and
Kristine Holda, ‘O6 ran to Gorman’s side
in an attempt to administer first aid while
Lee Shubert, ‘07 called 911.

Though no official cause of death
has been released, the" students who saw
Gorman believe they know what
happened, “Mike was climbing the back
of an orchestra shell, which he wouldn’t
do in front of a student,” said Miller. “He
had been preparing for Saturday night’s

Every day, every event, every thing Mike was a
part of it in one way or another

concert.”

Gorman served as the director of
Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts since 1991,
when the Center opened.

“Mike was Lenfest. That’s the best
way to put it. Every day, every event, every
thing Mike was a part of it in one way or
another,” said Shubert. “No event will
ever be the same now that he is no longer
around. Every event will seem a little less
bright, a little less complete, because of
his absence.”

Gorman also served as faculty

- advisor for the Washington and Lee Dance

Ensemble. “It is not an exaggeration to say
that without Michael’s support, dance
would never have survived its ﬂedgling
years on this campus,” said Professor
Joseph Martinez, associate professor and
chair of the W&L theater department.

“Mike was a mentor and friend to
many of us,” said Nicole Risey, ’05. “We
worked on shows together, he helped me
through the insanity of my thesis, and he
tried to help me decide what I wanted to
do with my life.”

More than one student said that

l“i‘MCNDAY,MARCH14,2!I5 BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDEIVITS SINCE 1897 V0Ll.lV|ECVI,NllV|BBRﬂ’?1/
   Campus mourns Gorman
I Students remember Lenfest Center Directonﬂmemorial scholarship planned
°VE”"‘"""‘ I S ‘ 5‘§‘l?ZZﬁ§“3Z§’§f.?if?y‘i‘?.§§;T3°f§
T EDWOR-INCHIEF  LUGS Lenfest. That’s the best way t0 put  all of us, an unofficial advisor of sorts,”

said Miller.

“I wish I had had the time to get to
know him better,” said Malinda Smith,
’07. “In the limited interactions I had with
him, he always brought a smile to my
face,” she said.

Gorman leaves behind a wife,
daughter and son. His memorial mass will
be said Tuesday, March 15 at 1 p.m. in St.
Patrick’s Catholic Church.

In lieu of ﬂowers, the family
requests that gifts be donated to the
Michael K and Linda Gorman Scholarship
to support W&L theater students.

The One-Act plays this spring will
be dedicated to Gorman.

FURRE.ATE)AFmCl.ES
SeeRENENBEm4Gonpage6

University p ans facelift for Leybum

W&L investigates other examples of successful information supercenters

By Chris Lauderman
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Washington and Lee believes that
it is time to renovate Leybum Library.
Despite being one of the youngest
buildings on campus, the library built to
be a modern interpretation of the
Colonnade is showing its age.

The University plans on making the
library an “Ir1formation Commons” where
the library and computing merge their
services. Dean Larry Peppers headed the
Strategic Plan task force that dealt with
this issue. '

The task force report suggested that
University Computing and the library

should not join operations, but instead I

proposed that Computing and the library

restructure so that the student side of
University Computing—including the
HelpDesk—would be located in Leybum.
The large computing equipment will most
likely remain in the basement of Tucker
Hall.

Provost Thomas Williams pointed
out the many models W&L observed.
Brown, Wellesley, Connecticut College,

’ Wheaten, Dickenson, and Wesleyan all

have some form of an info commons.

But Merrily Taylor, Professor of
Library, emphasized less the notion of an
informati’6n commons and more of the
transformation of the building into a
welcoming place for students.

“Where the Commons is the
University’s living room, the library would
be the University’s study,” Taylor said.
“All kinds of exciting things could

happen.”

New plans for the library include a
café and coffee shop along with wireless
connection in the whole building.
Currently, there is not much room for
faculty and student group worksites.

The provost acknowledged that no
food or drinks in college libraries has
become unrealistic.

“Most [college libraries] have snack
bars or coffee bars now,” Williams said.

The heating, coolin g and ventilation
system will also be completely overhauled.
W&L will hire a consultant to come in and
decide the best way to handle the
renovation. 7

By moving portions of University
Computing to the library, space becomes
more problematic than in the past.
Building onto Leyburn is one possible

’ space needed in the future.

solution, but another option is changing
the way W&L currently stores its books.
. Williams said that the library
volume could be tripled by using
mechanical compact storage by
compressing all of the shelves into tracks
pushed together. When students need a
book, they will press a button and the
shelves will part where the book is located.
Taylor also suggested moving less-read
books to a different location on campus.

The digital revolution, according to
Taylor, will also inﬂuence the amount of
W&L is
increasingly getting journals and reference
books in digital form.

“As we go into this we will be
looking into student and faculty input,”
Taylor said. “We want to make the library
special and unique to W&L.”

Winning band climbs ladder to the mainstream

Four bandmembers come together to make Jacob’s Ladder a recent success

By Sarah Munay
NEWS EDITOR

When Jacob’s Ladder took the stage
at Battle of the Bands a week ago, the
atmosphere changed just a little. The
audience stopped chatting, turned towards
the stage, began paying attention. The
scene turned into a party environment to a
real concert.

The difference was noticeable to the
band members, too. “People were really
listening and really responding to
everything we played,” said Wheeler
Sparks ’06.

Over the past year, Sparks and his
bandmates have consistently turned heads
with its performances, which attract a loyal
student fan base. But Buffalo Creek,
scheduled for this May, could be one of
the last times that the group performs with
its original members: Sparks as lead
vocalist and guitarist, Pete Jones ’O6 on
bass,iguitarist Jared Meyer ’07, and
drummer Dan Fassio ’O5.

In the months that Jacob’s Ladder
has been on W&L’s music scene, it has
established itself as one of the few student
bands that places an emphasis on original
music and thoughtful performances,
playing the Elrod Commons and the
Jordan House as well as sweaty fraternity
basements.

“I would much rather play a small
coffeehouse show for 3 people and have
them legitimately listen to my music than
for 100 people who could care less,”
Sparks said. 7

The story of Jacob’s Ladder is not
one of good friends or cousins who
decided to form‘ a band. It was a
progression of chance encounters, of “I
know a guy who knows a guy.” The result:
a varied pool of musical talent, taste, and
experience coming together to form “a
cross between jazz and a rock/pop sort of
sound,” as Sparks characterizes it.

Meyer and Sparks began it by idly

picking up their guitars one day last year.
What started as a way to pass the time
became the origin of J acob’s Ladder.

“We jammed together for about two
hours and knew we wanted to start a
band,” Meyer said.

They needed a drummer. Meyer
knew that Fassio was a talented drummer
who was looking for someone to play with.
Someone would have to play bass. Sparks
had heard of Jones’ bass experience in the
Jazz Ensemble.

It was all pretty easy, really.

Their first experience together
convinced the band members that they
were on the right track. Sparks brought a
melody, Fassio increased the tempo to give
‘it a rock sound, and Meyer and Jones
pieced together parts of their own. The
end result was good enough to surprise
them all. '

“I think we finished it in like half
an hour maximum,” Fassio said. “It’s still
one of our best songs.”

That first achievement earned the
song the nickname “Confidence Booster.”
From then on, the band members didn’t
hesitate to use their bring—your-own-skills
approach to craft their music.

The diversity of their musical
backgrounds is what makes that approach
daunting, yet effective. Sparks is a music
composition and economics double major
whose acoustic preferences blend well
with Jones’ jazz-inﬂuenced style. Meyer,
though trained in classical guitar, learned
lead guitar the same way Fassio taught
himself to handle a drummer’s part——by
playing along with CD5 and records.

“I wasn’t sure how it was going to
turn out,” Fassio admitted. “The good
news was [that] we did appreciate
everyone else’s tastes, and we were willing
to work with them.”

With Fassio planning to pursue a
graduate degree in religion next fall, the
future of J acob’s Ladder is uncertain. The
musicians left behind have already spoken
with some possible replacements, and

£1 .
 ‘W’
-'4

STEVEN MARINOS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER

 

Pete Jones, ‘06, performs with his band at Battle of the Bands on March 4.

plans have been made to record a CD
before graduation.

“It won’t be as good, clearly,”
Fassio cracked. “We’re taking it as it
comes. . .and trying to have fun with it."

“We’re definitely hoping to
continue playing together—if for no other
reason, because it’s a good break and
release from stress,” Sparks said.

Whatever happens next year, the

band members are resolved to retain their
musical integrity.

“To a larger degree, popular music
has fallen off as being educated and being
complex and being, at the same time,

enjoyable to listen to,” Sparks said. “In ’

my own mind, I try to bridge the gap
between well—written, studied music and
something that’s fun to listen to.”

 

  

%’I7!'fx:;Nzt;~‘»3G“v’(':=>.i  ...I’~‘-=.

u

 

2 -THERING-TUMPHI ‘   

 

 it 3,5-@‘ne,,;;3.m s-r.~..',a,,<:,.;
5R-‘if I ‘a
5;-I I

 

|V|QlDAY,MA|iCI-l14,%

n EWS

Henriques speaks on corporate crime

- Sahar Kamali / Stafl Photographer

DiaI1aHer1riquesspokeonooIpora1ecrimemd mediamalfunction inherspeech
intheunivecsitycommonslastweek. Henriquesisabusiness reporterwilhthe
NewYork77mes. Sheisanativeoﬁexaswhogrewupin Roanoke,Va.

 

Bysamlvlmay

NE\NSED'TU:i

New York Times business reporter
Diana Henriques criticized the media’s
coverage of white-collar crime last

‘ Thursday in a lecture entitled “Bad

Business: Corporate Crime and Media
Malfunction.” In her Elrod Theater
appearance, Henriques discussed the
recent attention given to corporate fraud
and its implication that journalists have
for too long accepted the words of
business executives at face value.

“If they can’t explain it to you and
me, they probably don’t understand it
themselves,” Henriques said.

Henriques’s theory suggests that the
terrorism attacks of September 11, 2001
drew additional attention to, among other
things, the business world. The idea of
the common man facing real danger in the
workplace threw the work climate into a
new light.

“Suddenly, it seemed that the
simple act of going to work and doing your
job had a special signiﬁcance,” Henriques
said.

Charitable institutions
corporations found themselves under the
scrutiny of the public to a degree yet
unlmown. Since 9/11, an unprecedented
number of corporate crimes have appeared

and .

in headlines and sound bites.

It’s not that there is more corporate
crime than before, Henriques said. The
fault lies with the journalists who didn’t
dig deep enough to ﬁnd the truth behind
the corporations’ numbers and public
statements. For decades, “journalism
existed not to police business, but to serve
it,” especially in times of prosperity.

‘The early muckrakers had a deep
sense of mission,” Henriques said. “But
commitment to that mission has been a
rolle,r—coaster ride from gullibility to
cynicism ever since.”

Henriques expressed concern at the
popularity of television outlets, saying,
“TV news has consistently done a terrible,
terrible job of covering business and
economics. Yet it is the primary news
source for most Americans.”

What’s more dangerous, Henriques
said, is the Internet’s new power over the
news industry. ' The risk of inaccurate or
uninformed coverage is as great as the
opportunity for spreading news.

“Somehow we’ve got to figure out
how to harness the good and defeat the
bad, or it will defeat us,” Henriques said.

Henriques, a native of Bryan, Texas,
grew up in Roanoke, Va. She received a
degree in International Affairs from
George Washington University and has
written three books on corporate fraud.

Harlem Gospe Chor to sing at W&L

GAB sponsoring event March 22

ByCtrisLauderma1
EDITOFHNC}-IE3

Evans Hall will be rocking to the
Harlem Gospel Choir next week. The
General Activities Board is sponsoring the
event that will be held Tuesday, March 22
at 8 p.m.

“I think it’s something everyone
should attend,” Dan Fassio, Public
Relations chair for GAB, said.

The idea for the gospel choir
coming to campus stemmed from various
campus organizations such as Onyx.

“We wanted to _do something a little
different,” Fassio said.

GAB has never brought in a Gospel
choir before and thought that this would
be an appropriate time with Easter being
so close.

" The concert is free and open to the
Washington and Lee community. Attire
is not formal. It’s on a Tuesday night, so

GAB knew that students would use it as a
study break.

According to the choir’s website,
the theme of their performances is bringing
people and nations together and giving
something back. The 2005 tour theme is
“God Bless the Children.”.They are
currently traveling the world trying to raise
money for various children’s charities.

The Harlem Gospel Choir was
founded in 1986 by Allen Bailey. The
world-renowned choir has been traveling
the globe since then performing for
countless audiences. They have performed
with celebrities from U2 to Whoopi
Goldberg and have perfonned for people
such as Pope John Paul II and Nelson
Mandela.

To preview their music, CDs and
DVDs are available on the choir’s website
for $18.

Fassio said that the Harlem Gospel
Choir has a lot of fun when they perform
and that they are “really, really good.”

“I think it ’s something everyone should

attend.
little different”

We wanted to do something a

New  Boutique if

' Extreme Fun!

Oakley
Maui Jim

For all your vision needs come to
' 203 N. Main Street, Lexington, VA

540-463-7440

www.newopticians.com

Co sy www.harlemgospelchoir.com

 

FounderoftheHar|emGospe|Choir,NbnBai|ey,ispicmredwiﬂ1BomofU2
Bai|eyfoundedthechoirin1986. Sinoethemthechoirhasbeoomeworld
renownedandp|ayedwithvariousartistsinc|udingLyIeLoveI1.

by 12)

Flowers & Things
Florist

For the “Unique” at affordable prices.’

Teleﬂora Wire Service

Corsages & Bouts

Gift & Fruit Baskets

Balloons & Fresh Arrangements
Daily Lexington Delivery (if ordered

0 All major credit cards accepted 0

Call 540-261-6300 or 1-800-872-6156
2463 Beech Ave., Buena Vista, Va. 24416

Four new
alumns to
join Board
of Trustees

Bysaahlvlnay

f\EVVSE]TCR

The Board of Trustees elected
four new members to its number, tl1e
News Office reported Wednesday. All
four elected members are. alumni and
hold positions of respect in their own
communities.

Andrew N. Baur ’66, a resident
of St. Louis, Mo., was a member of
Sigma Nu fraternity, an ofﬁcer on the
Inter-Fraternity Council, and a member
of the Ring-Tum Phi staff, along with
other prestigious positions.

Baur has also drawn fire from the
National Council of Women’s
Organizations, who attacked the
members of the Augusta Golf Club as
representative of sexist attitudes in the
corporate world. Their website,
augustadiscriminates.org, targeted
“corporate leaders with Augusta
National memberships and the
companies they work for”, according
to the St. Petersburg Times. Their
concern is that the “No Girls Allowed”
attitude on the part of corporate
leadership “possibly translates into pay
discrimination, glass ceilings, and
sexual harassment up and down the
line.”

The president of the American
Bar Association, Robert J. Grey Jr.
‘76L, was elected as well. Grey is a
member of the Honorary Order of the
Coif and was the Law School
commencement speaker in 2003.

Bernard Grigsby H ’72 lives in
Surrey, England and will soon retire
from a successful career as an
economist. A former Kappa Sigma, he
is heavily involved with alumni
activities and has received honorary
Omicron Delta Kappa membership.

The last new member, John
Vardaman ’62, attended Harvard Law
School and is an acclaimed trial lawyer
who has appeared before the U.S.
Supreme Court. During his time at
W&L, he participated in a slew of
campus activities and was the captain

 

4

A

 

MG‘DAY,MARCI-|14\,ZXB

THERNG-TUWPHI ° 3

shorts

 

THIS WEEK

IQDAY, MA£'l14

-Golf at L—R Invitational TBA
-Women’s Tennis at RMC 3:30
-Men’s Tennis at RMC 3:30

TLESDAY, MAFICI-I15
-Golf L—R" Invitational TBA

 Y,MARCI'|16
IBaseball vs Roanoke 3:00
'Men’s LAX vs. G’Boro 3:30 .
IWomen’s Tennis at JMU 3245
'Women’s LAX at Guilford 4:00

T|'lFSDAY,MARCH17

lWomen’s Tennis at RMWC 3:30
IMen’s Tennis at EMU 4:00
-Women’s Tennis vs. Roanoke 4:30
'Men’s Swimming at NCAA TBA

FRDAY, MARCH18

-Women’s Tennis at B’water 3:30
-Track at VCU 4:00 I
-Women’s Tennis vs. EMU 4:30
-Golf at Golden Isle TBA
'Men’s Swimming at NCAA TBA

SATURDAY, MARCH19

-Track at Roanoke 10:00
-Baseball at EMU 12:00

-Men’s LAXat Mary Wash 1:00
-Women’s LAX at Mary Wash 2:00
-Men’s Swimming at NCAA TBA
-Golf at Golden Isle TBA

SPORTS BRIEFS

W&L Men’s Lacrosse Defeals
F&M, 7-6, in OT(3I1 2)

Senior attackman Jack Murray
(Earlysville, Va./Albemarle) scored
off an assist from senior attackman
Gavin Molinelli (Northport, N.Y./ ‘
Northport) with 1:49 remaining in
overtime to lift fou1th—ranked
Washington and Lee to a 7-6 win over
Franklin & Marshall in men’s lacrosse
action on Saturday evening at the
W&L Turf Field.

W&LOul1doorTrackOpens
Season atW&L hvita1ional(3l1 2)
The Washington and Lee outdoor
track and ﬁeld-teams opened their
2005 season at the W&L Invitational
on Saturday afternoon at the Wilson
Field Track. The men placed ﬁfth out
of nine teams, while the women also
ﬁnished ﬁfth among nine teams.

W&LWomen’sLacrosseDe1eals
Catholic, 6-5 (3/1 2)

The 16th-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team jumped out to
a 5-2 halftime lead and held on for a
6-5 .victory over Catholic University
on Saturday afternoon in Washington
D.C.

W&LWomen’sTennlsDefeats
Guilford,9-0(3f12)

The third-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team improved to 7-0
overall and 5-0 in the ODAC with a
9-0 win over Guilford on Saturday
afternoon in Lexington, Va.

Efite V

CALL AT:

Lalli focused on teamgoals

BySad1Bloom
smoRsPoHrswRiTEH

I_,()()I<B\T(} TC) START A BIJSDVESS
OR
()\X7I\TII\1(3'.Y()IJR <)VV1\T Ii()I\/IE M!

Call us and vve will have your problern solved
“Io specialize in: Debt Consoliclation,
I-Iorno loan. .A11to Loans
Sxnall Business Loans. Pc:'sonnl Loans.

NC IJP FRCNT FEES
1 866-23' 6-82 88

It all started with backyard
games for Washington and Lee lacrosse
goalie Chris Lalli. “I remember playing
outside with my dad and brother when
I was a little kid,” said Lalli.

Backyard games didn’t last long
for Lalli, however. He soon joined a
competitive team in 4"‘ grade that his
mom and dad started and has been
playing competitively ever since.

Lacrosse took a more serious note
when he attended Princeton High School.
Lalli started three of his four years and was
named Princeton’s best all-around athlete
as a senior. He became team captain and
was named defensive MVP by his
teammates. A decorated high school

  

mind. ”

 

WALKER‘ WILLIAMS /

STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER 'ch'15L3'i

athlete, Lalli brought his talent a step
higher when he came to the Washington
and Lee ﬁeld.

“Coach contacted me and I liked the
idea of a small school,” commented Lalli

on his decision. As a freshman, he played ,

in four games, allowing just three goals

“We have a collective goal as a
team to win ODACs this year. It’s
way in the ﬁiture, but we’ve all
got a goal of playing in Nationals
and bringing home a title in-

by opponents.

This year Lalli starts for the
Generals as goalie. He had ‘a tough
position to ﬁll after the graduation of star
goalie Ansel Sanders, but Lalli was more
than ready to take the position. “Chris got
a season to learn under Ansel,”

commented Coach Mike Cerino in his pre-
season press release. Lalli has performed
indeed, protecting the goal at each game
to ensure a win.

Unwilling to comment on himself,
Lalli placed the focus on his team, saying
“We have a collective goal as a team to
win ODACs this year. It’s way in the
future, but we’ve all got a goal of playing
in Nationals and bringing home a title in
mind.” ’

To do this, Lalli realizes that each
game is important. He enters the locker
room two hours before a game to talk with
his fellow defensive men about the
upcoming game. “We try to devise a game
plan, to develop a mindset,” said Lalli.

After four one—point wins this
season, the team is now focused on an
upcoming game against Greensboro. “The
game went into overtime last year to win
and we’re looking to step it up this year.”

 

ByJomBovay

970318!/VF§TER

The Washington & Lee men’s tennis
team played three matches last week, and
emerged victorious on every court. The
team improved its record to 8-4, and
remains ranked tenth nationally among
Division-HI schools.

On Wednesday, the team took on
Lynchburg College at home and
dominated, winning every set. Lynchburg
was playing its first match of the year, and

was unable to mount much of a challenge.
Paul McClure, David Shay, and Jon
Malooly took the ﬁrst three courts.

On Saturday, the men faced a harder
challenge against Denison College, but
still managed to win every set of every
match.

McClure led the team again.
defeating his opponent 6-2, 6-2; Shay took
the second court with a 6-3, 7-6 (6) victory.
Denison. like the other teams, was playing
its first match of the season.

McClure, ranked 25'“ in the nation,
improved his singles record this season to

CORBIN BLACKFORD I PHOTO EDITOR

Men’s tennis shuts out Lynchburg, Denison

10-7. and Shay, ranked 20"‘, improved to
11-7. The Shay-McClure doubles team
improved to 9-6 overall.

Sophomore Jon Malooly, who ranks
third on the team, described the weekend
matches as “domination.” On the team’s
prospects for the rest of the season, he
remained upbeat, commenting, “I go day-
by-day.”

The team faces two ODAC
opponents this week, first playing at
Randolph-Macon on Monday, and then
traveling to Eastern Mennonite in
Harrisonburg on Thursday.

TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALL GAME

 

 ac. .< , .

¢~w-  -
% ./
»/ {V

 

nnwashingtmauLeeBasebdImaninpwwb1e2i4o)sueepingadamemadasaurdayRandolph A

Macon. ThevvinsexhendedlheGeneial’swimingsheakto14garnes. FirstbasemanTaylorMcConneIlhitagrmdslamand
sophomorepitoherC|ayhonEdwardswon hisfourlhgame. TheGenerasrehmtoaclionWednesdayaga'1stRomoke.

e erraf

1999 Audi A4 lluatlro

KM radio. 12 BI] changer. good condition.
$11500. call 261-5598.

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida & Costa Rica. 110%
Best Prices!

fl   #1 Spring Break Vacations!
1

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted!

1 800 234 7007
end|esssummertours.com

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier41 1 .com I
1 877 SEE POOL

   

Generals track
ﬁnishes ﬁfth
at Invitational

Spcnsﬁelease

S"O°TTSl‘FGWW|'KN

The Washington and Lee outdoor
track and ﬁeld teams opened their 2005
season at the W&L Invitational on
Saturday afternoon at the Wilson Field
Track. The men placed fifth out of nine
teams, while the women also finished ﬁfth
among nine teams.

In the men’s meet, the Generals had
three ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes, seven top-ﬁve
finishes and set a new school record.
Senior Nathan Johnson , who was named
the Athlete of the Meet, won both the 800
meters and the 1500 meters. Sophomore
Andrew Fischer won the javelin with a
throw of 145’8”.

Senior Steve Chambers placed ﬁfth
in the 1500 metersand sixth in the 800
meters . Sophomore Walker Duncan
placed third in the hammer throw with a
school-record toss of 136’, while senior
Chris Walker finished fourth in the
hammer throw with a heave of 107’7”.

The 4x400 relay team of senior
Norman Senior, Chambers, freshman
Steve Rivoir and Johnson placed ﬁfth in
a time of 3:42.02.

In the women’s meet, W&L had
eight top-ﬁve ﬁnishes. Senior Meredith
Walker won the long jump and was ﬁfth
in the 200 meters. Senior Emily Barker
placed second in the javelin and third in
the shot put.

The 4x400 meter relay team of
Ratzel, Christopher, junior Liz Twentyman
and Haws placed fourth with a time of
4:37.18.

 

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Spttiallr SW .
273 Rnphine Road ’
Raphlne, VA 24472
540-348-5220 - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting ooimge nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic.
and novelty yams. kits. 0694195 and
accessories. Customer service from sum to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
Internet accessibility made 638!-

Cilforworkshop&dasslnformation.

Halfway between Lexington and Staunron
On I-81 /I-64 at exit 205, Rnnhinr. 4nu'les west on
Rom; 606,  Road. Located ond WOVHRS
fans that oﬁers "U-PICA ' apponuniziesfor fresh
fruit when in mm
Tues-Satl0:00-5:00,Weduntil8:1ll

__m.iumm;mlLf1ﬂ:__

 

4 - THE RlNGrTUM PHI MQ.DAyMApg;H14tgx5 >-

 

(nightly specials) change daily and range

range from $4.95—$5.95 and entrees

   

Tuscany Restaurant.

7'
S?‘
 t0 JOI'Cl6lI1 HOUSE l’1OStS .
0 0 0
per OITI1 1I1 local II1U.S1C1El1’1S '
‘ ~ BYEVSEMOOUV It provides anexcellent atmosphere covers of Jack Johnson, Sublime,
O 3W’FW”TER for a low-key night of music with your etc...along with audience requests. a
In - friends or in support of your friends. It These guys are really talented.
 Ididn’tknow the Jordan House is a similar experience to seeing someone You should come the next time they
U existed until last Friday. Most of you your age on VHl’s Storytellers——except play.
probably have no idea where it is the background stories are a lot more Next week, the Jordan House
ByKa|BShe"nuu either—but you should. entertaining. ' presents local musician Arum Rae from ‘
STAFFWWER kiekin’ roek-n-ro11side,” Located across from the Last Friday, Common Grounds 8-10 PM. A mixture of urban jazz and
sineeiast visitingW&L,the band Mirage on Nelson Street, you have hosted a night of acoustic music blues, her work has been described as
Listen up for guitar strumming, has gone from five members to four, but probably passed by this little building featuring student musician Chris classic, with a twist of Bonnie Raitt.

bongo rhythms, and Casio sound e1ir,s___ VACO 2_() remains true to its roots; without giving it a second thought. Kimmel ’06. If you like acoustic music _ Others say she falls somewhere

you may be able to hear the bnmpin’ fresh humor, crowd interaction, and musical Narrow, brick, and unassuming, the and casual, student-run events, it was a between Erykah Badu and Patsy Cline. y
tunes from here_ Variety, Jordan house blends in with every lot of fun. ’ Clearly, Rae is a unique musician who

Virginia Coalition, remembered for After releasing four CDs, Virginia other building downtown. Wheeler Sparks ’06 set the tone for falls into her own category and sets

their high-energy shows at campus Coalition presentsaplaylist of theirclassic V If you want to hear some the evening with a selection of original herself apart from the contemporary
fraternity houses, Visits Charlottesville’ songs, funkiﬁed eiassies, brand spankin’ interesting student and professional songs and covers. He and Blair Crunk ’07 music scene.

Virginia Friday’ Maren 1g_ new beats, and the 'oeea'siena1eighties/hip- music, however, it is worth checking performed a rendition of Ryan Adam’s She performs both jazz standards, V

The band will perform at the hop cover out. The concerts are a great way to “Sweet Carolina” just before Kimmel and original music, and she is known for

sateiiite Baiiroom’ attached to pian 9 Because they win be weekend start off aFriday night. came onstage. Kimmel also played mostly her eclecticism and wit. Sounds good
music on the UVA Comer. The $12 show headliners so close to the University of Thc Jcrdan Hcusc has been original musics but hc a1s0 Wcfkcd in t0 mc-

begins at 8 with college country/pop/rock Virginia campus, fans can expect a pretty Fcn0Vatcd t0 acccmmcdatc musical i

bands Monticello Road and Sparky’s Flaw, packed show Friday. . performances, and it seats about 60 ‘ V ‘
then VACO takes the stage to get live at VACO certainly follows the mott , Pccpic comfortably in the main I  know the Jordan House existed until last

10. ’ “the bigger the crowd, the bigger the 100m _ _

The Show‘ a part of Virginia party’? and after spending the nearly the The intimacy Of the setting lS        

Coalition’s “Ok to Go” tour, includes last three months touring outside of their Pcffcct fcf ihc kinds Of musicians the - - -

music off their latest CD of the same name. home state, the guys will ‘be ready to party -lcfdan Hcusc attfacisi iccai taicni where It 18 eltherjbut you Should‘ Y
Produced by Matt Wallace (known for his on with Virginia pride. and student musicians-

work with Maroon 5 and Train), the new For more about how to be a part

CD fine-tunes both VACO’s melodic, of the party, or just more VACO info, . .

acoustic, and heartfelt side and what lead check out the band’s website: . yi
singer Andy Poliakoff calls their “ass— www.virginiacoalition.com. H  m 0  b 6  g

‘

« , BvKristir»eEa-iv . . . . . . .
~ n_EMiKANno,EEsEGinL way past its deadline? (Sorry, Erin and rubbing it in my face incessantly. y
Chris!) Instant message conversations go as
Let’s list my plans for the rest follows:
Hell week is over. For of the day: i  -' " A Me: Hey, how are you? (I amthe
freshman. For me, hell month is just 1) Eat dinner. only person in the entire world that
beginning to rear its ugly head. In 2) Take a nap. (Clearly, I’m actually uses proper punctuation and Y
three and a half weeks I have a total worn out from being a loyal General’s capitalization on AIM. I’m just that
of seven papers due. SEVEN. Yes. fan.) cool.)
SEVEN. 3) Write paper number one: due Friend: i’m great how are u?
You may have been poked Tuesday. Me: I’m OK. I have a lot of work
with a cattle prod, forced to get up I have a feeling I won’t be though. V
at five in the morning to run six getting to number three. Once I get Friend: oh sorry i’m on break i’
miles and been at the beck and call under the covers, there is a big chance didn’t even get up until 2 today then i
of your brothers 24/7, but clearly,I I’ll remain curled up like a Cheshire went shopping and i went to the
have it worse. Anything that cat until my alarm clock rings at 9:05 movies with a couple of friends my
requires spending time in Leyburn a.m. It’s just a guess, though. mom made me my favorite meal life I
qualifies as torture. I take solace in the fact that is so good right now
Despite the fact that spring break is only twenty-five days Me: Wow! I’m jealous.
deadlines are looming, I have done away. I’ve already planned out how Friend: i know while you’re
little more than gather my resources I’ll spend my seven daysof freedom. stuck in classes all day I am lying V
together. Why? Call it lack of Sleeping. Eating. Watching Lifetime around watching tv and eating
motivation. movies and Law and Order (Special popcorn of course occasionally I have
Let’s list today’s Victims Unit, clearly). Shopping. to get up to go to the bathroom or
_ _ accomplishments: Visiting friends. Spending time with . something like that it’s a hard life it
ELLNUTTFPHOTOGRAHR 1) Waking up. my dog. Celebrating my big 2-0. Me: Yeah. I feel for you. at
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2) Getting out of bed. Sounds nice, doesn’t it? _ Ergh! One more month to go,
_ Virginia Common’ or VACO’ '5 _a band based In N°rthem'Vlrg‘ma' The" 3) Brushing my teeth. All of my friends back home are ladies and gents.’ Hang in there. And

recordings reveal 3 layered muslc style—rock, soul, funk, hip-h0P, go-g0, 4) Showering, on break right now. And they enjoy may teachers take mercy on our souls.

and bluegrass, created by their expressive lyrics and occasional banjo, 5) Eating.

keyboard, cowbell, bongo, or washboard jam sessions. Their live shows 5) watching baseba11_ ,'
intensify all the best things about their CD, extending their musical energy to (Though that did require walking to I take solace in the fact that spring break is only

the audience via chants and commands to dance, jump, and just “get live.” Captain Dick Smith field, which is. , —

The band has performed with favorites like The Roots, Dave Matthews clearly a large expenditure of twentyﬁﬁve days away- I U9 already Planned out
Band, Pat McGee Band, Counting Crows, O.A.R., Ben Folds Five, and energy 011 my part-) ’

Guster, and was voted the Washington Post’s Best DC Band in 2003. 7) Sitting and Writing this how I  spend my Seven days Ofﬁeedomi *
article And did 1 mention that it’s

. o o o

Lex offers large array of dining options ..
BVEHWEWHUS from $l9.95—$35. Check out their

"m'5A"D“FEED”OR fantastic drink menu, with a plethora of

different martinis and wines from w
Fancy Dress is on Saturday. California to Spain.

You’re probably sick of hearing about Wilson-Walker House

it. To beat this dead horse, the Ring- We love this place for their $5

tum Phi offers you a list of restaurant lunch specials, so their dinner is bound

options from which you can choose to be just as good. ‘Appetizers range 7
before the big dance. That is, if you are from $3.95-$6.50 while entrees range

capable of eating a meal by the time 6pm from $11.95-$24.50. Each meal comes

rolls around on Saturday. with their marvelous homemade rolls.

Café Michel (540)463-3020. V
This restaurant has quickly Sheridan-Livery Inn i

become a favorite of students since it Across from the Wilson-Walker

opened over the summer. Appetizers House is another dining option for you.

range from $6.95 to $7.95 while entrees Appetizers range from $6-9.50, salads

range from $l9.95—$23.95. The entree from $5.50-$10, Sandwiches" from $6- ,
price includes a house salad, a side of $8. Entrées range from $18 for Chicken _ _ ' ' ' ' '

vegetables, and a choice of rice, potato, , piccata to $29 for a surf-and-turf. They Cafemicheis iikeiheaihenine

or pasta. In true W&L fashion, they do also offer an extensive wine list, ranging eateries in Lexingtomoffersdivine P”°T° COURTESY °F F“"“°'S°° “'54”

serve wine, beer, and liquor. Hours: 5- from $23.95-$35.95 per bottle. cuisineandaiargewineseiec-ﬁ°n_ piedgeshipasweon°eimewitruumedt°washingt°na1dLee

10Pm- <540>464-4119- <54°>464'18,87« , University,ifon|yforaday. Phi Psi pledgeslitlieredlheﬂill posingas ‘r

southern Inn The Bistro on Main from $9,95-$19,95_ . . . .
A Sta 1 f M . S . . , _ , mimes,mal<ingPB&Jsandwiohes,andp|ayinggo|f.1'heywereaIso
P c 0 ﬂln ifcci, ihc D0 110‘ °Veri00kih1S gcu10hMaiu If you re looking for sushi, the . . . .

Southern Inn offers a wide array of Street. Occupying What Was Once sushi bar at the International Foods sp°ued‘a°h"9a59_a'9°Yie3a"dlU5tbei"9m°ihe”Y-Ai?°Ve'5Ma'i_(’

classic entrée options. Appetizers range Car01ine’s Bakery, the Bistro offers a market is closed on Saturdays. As for 11 Howe" o8perf°"mn9y°9a°nthefr°n“aWn- Fonhe R’n9'u”nPh's

from $3.75-$11.95, and entrees range diverse Selection Of entrees. including Palazzo? It’s closed for renovations at opinion,readthisweek’sstaffeditoria|onpage6. V
ffcm $10-95-15.95 Specialty cntfccs their amazing Crabcakes Appctizcis the moment and will reopen soon as the

 

|lﬂ‘DAY,NU\RCH14.,ZI5

“Life is just a mirror, and what you see out
there, you must ﬁrst see inside of you. ”

_ —Waly“Famous”Amos .

THERNG-TUMPHI 0 5

Ode to Snow
Cancellations

A Reply to Last Week’s Poem
by Dickinson (Ian, not Emily).

ByTm Koly

V|%PFESB\ITR]?CDW\/U\lCAT'O\1S

Who says the Administration doesn’t know how to take a joke? Tim Kolly sent
the Phi a humorous response to Ian Dickinson’s poem that ran last week. Read and
enjoy. If only all of our administrators had such a sense of humor.

lmaginemvsigh
As I picked upthe Phi
Andneadthepoemonpageﬁve.
lttold ofthe plight
Ofsludentswhoﬁght
Theelementstojustslayalive.

Thesoourgehereissnow,
lt’s slippery, you know,
Andstudentsgetkilledalllhelime.
1'heircars mn in ditches
Ortumbleoffbridges
Vlﬁlly-niI|y,wiIhoutreasonorrhyme.

l’vehearditspoken ,
Oftheboneslhatarebroken I
Merelytryingtogettolheirclasses.
Thatdoesn’tevencount
111einjuries1hatmount
\IlIhenIheyslipandfa|lontheir”behinds.”

But|an’spoemseemedtosay
  lnaroundaboutway
Thatwhen snowﬂakes inprofusiondofall
Thatnoclasses, laheolasses
Orregularlimeclasses
It really is Tim Ko||y’s call.

Thafsallnewstomep
I’m in bed,yousee
Whenmyphoneiingsatsixinihemom
lt’sthevoioe ofthe provost
Thatcallsmetomypost
SnowAlert!yousludenIsIwam.

lknowhowyoufeel
Pmaooginthewheel
Whenitoomestoadecisiononsnow.
lsaywhat|’mtold
Whethersnow,ice,oroo|d
You’reshoolinglhemessenger,felIow.

Myvoiceandmywords
Arelhosereadandheard
Butlsaylhiseverso humbly
Whilelrelishthefame
You’vegot1hewrongname
1hedecision isVVilliarns’and Beebe’s.

“Dating Doctor” to
speak on Thursday

David Coleman cleverly offers fresh
insight into relationships

DATING DOCTOR 411

Byemiysdwaus

AHrsAmuFEEi:non
Man: “How do you like your
eggs in the moming”
Woman: “Unfertilized”

Does your boyfriend have the
attention span of an ant? Is your
girlfriend more needy than a six-

  
  
   

week old lab puppy? Are you HQY $355’-n
yearning to add more pick up lines‘ Yov 3:? 3?
to your frat—speak repertoire? If you <3o}n3 on,
answered “yes” to any of these now how Woe?
questions, come hear David Coleman t me 3-

speak on Thursday night at 7:30.

Coleman, known to many
college students as “The Dating
Doctor,” will be giving a presentation
entitled, “Making Relationships
Work.”

A nine—time national Speaker
of the Year, Coleman actively
engages his audience through the
use of Powerpoint presentations and
his lively diction.

For those of you who have had

Coﬂlng

om

    

Man: “I’m here to fulﬁll
your every sexual fantasy”
Woman: “You mean
you’ve got both a donkey
and a Great Dane?”

CONTENT COURTESY OF DATINGDOCTOFLCOM

the pleasure of hearing the real-life
Hitch, you may recall his pick up
line challenge, in which Coleman
essentially dares you to out-do him
with crazy pickup lines.

You give him the first half of a

The presentation is sponsored by
pic,kup line, and chances are, he’ll multiple campus organizations, including

the Gender Relations committee, LIFE,
and Panhellenic.

know the last half. He’ll even give you
his Top 10 worst pickup lines ever.

SENIORS

CONGRATULATIONS - CELEBRATION - MEMORIES Q

W

 
   

GRA
Tues. 3/15 Wed. 3/ 16
10:00AM - 5:00PM

Elrod Commons
V

  q
RDER YOUR CAPS AND GOWNS *
PURCHASE YOUR ANNOUNCEMENTS

Graduation from college is one of the most important achievements in a person's
life, a milestone that family and friends want to share.

RESERVE YOUR DIPLOMA FRAME
(5% Discount on Grad Fair Orders)ﬁ

SELECT YOUR RING
REGISTER FOR MP3 PLAYER DRAWING

*Caps and gowns must be ordered during this three day event.
Orders after 3/17 will incur a $25 late fee.

 

 

 

. isn’t back to inﬂuence the case.

 

M1DAY,MARCH7,ZI5

 

Kudos to Phi

Psi for open

Hell Week

Last week, during the last

stretch of pledgeship, upperclassmen

were excited to brieﬂy see remnants
of the old Hell Week activities.
Pledges golfed on the front lawn,
posed as a gargoyle near the
Commons, and apparently set up a
toll booth on the sorority bridge. _
How did this happen?

The IFC sent out an email
inviting fraternity members to submit
proposals if there were any planned
activities they were unsure about. Phi
Kappa Psi submitted a proposal for
skits on the Hill and the IFC gave
them its go—ahead.

Security, however, stopped
the Phi Kappa Psi potential new
member who had set up the toll booth
on the sorority bridge. Dean Dawn
Watkins also received a complaint
regarding the pledgeship activities.

Phi Kappa Psi stopped the
pledgeship activities when they
realized complaints were being
registered.

The question is: Why did
these activities generate complaints? v

These funny, harmless,
creative — and emphasis on the word
harmless — activities should not be
garnering this negative attention.

The Ring—tum Phi applauds
Phi Kappa Psi for opening their Hell
Week activities.

We are not criticizing
security, the IFC or the
Administration. We simply think that
the witch-hunt for “hazing” has gone
too far.

L ups & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson has
ﬁnished sucking up to his profs to give
you his take on what rose and fell this
week at W&i. and around the world.

‘OHNOWDBIX

According to student feedback on
ratemyprofessoncom, the best
department on campus, with
psychology a close second.

0 Ubrary Sketehiness
I don’t know who the couple was, but
people, take heed— hooking up in the

stacks is FORBIDDEN. ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS ago featured the contestants creating an reflection of Someone,S _idemity_
cﬂms LAUDERMAN ad for Sony’s new” Gran Turismo” Of course, one anonymous writer
OC9n9f°88 _ _ - game. Each team hired a grafﬁti artist truly had it right when he ironically
10 POIIIQS f0!‘ 0111' 1_33t10Ii’S legislators MANAGING EDIT-OF; MARSHALL RULE to help them design an ad to place on scratched, “what kind of person goes out
£‘1.’:$l‘;ha‘;5d1‘s4C];B “‘.‘°g‘h‘;t1i‘ﬁh;’J.uSt NEWS EDITOR sARAH MURRAY  S:d‘:h°‘; ‘:1:’““fﬁ:‘g if‘ B":1°'1‘1l’;“'h“‘° ."f their Viﬁigctlf :lf“““““‘.’“‘ fin’ and. :31”
63mln- . V ss a eymerviewe a uge intoasi y a oomjus oscri e
want t0 Watch/P13)’ b35¢b311- ASST‘ NEWS EDITOR KATHERINE SHELL portfolios of all their work, and some nonsense on the wall so others can read it?”
OPNONS ED”-OR CALEY ANDERSON of the pieces were truly amazing. Maybe it,s art but maybe its
0 Judges ASST.OP|N|ONS EDITOR ANNE FINLEY Graffiti. in this instance, has become nonsense, I guess it’s just in the eye of the
Mortality rates for my hopeful future ARTS & LIFE EDITOR EMILY EDWARDS high art. beholder, and in the meantime, Chalk C811 V
profession are alarmingly high in PHOTO EDITOR OORBIN BLACKFORD I was looking up quotes online be appreciated by everyone.
‘°°°‘“ “’°°“S' LAYOUT EoIToRs CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE R o o
 emem term t e 1e 0
0GanyKasparoIv »
Regarded by manyas the best chess - y
professional chess to concentrate on CIRCULATION DIRECTOR YINYAN Ll   S   
putting the democracy in Russia’s Roy-IAN POOJARA _
‘(;li0bl(:4rl"1LdEe'1r“£0::1Iea1‘:1yl:)r\l:ti1s(;vIVia1:n :bout I3yLIsaIwIIerandNIooIeRIsey He laughed easily 3”“ °f‘““’ making
this, but if you dim.‘ know mi COPY EDITORS AMANDATHOLKE WHEATFEMDPS - anyone who recognized that sound smile.
where the hell have you been? V  Everyone who knew him can tell you that
I he never went without a kind word and a
' il ' h 1 'th
OMIIG Gorman smile and was always w ling to e p wi

If you are a theatre major, or if you
know one, you know that this man

Leaders can’t enforce cease—ﬁre,
associated political party distancing
itself, IRA members dribbling away,

the organization is dying a slow death.

this, especially if the Chief himself

  

Fade aWay- W&L of two years  
past only a distant memory.

ByCdeyAndeIson

IIUEMTESMSKB

When I first came here as a
prospective (almost exactly three years
ago), I was taken by my kindly. Honor
Scholar hosts (some of whom are still here,
waiting to graduate in June) to Salemo’s.
I remember being awed by the social
interconnectivity of the place; everyone
seemed to know everyone else. W&L
managed to set itself apart, in my mind,
from the other ﬁve institutions I had been
accepted to. It wasn’t just the friendliness
of the place, though, everyone there
seemed to have a kind of weird, unique
vibe. My host, a pledge undergoing hell
week when I visited, came back on
alternate days with a nearly—frozen,
purplish—colored hand, and then a sling
around his arm, which, unexplainably,
seemed not to be injured at all.

Then came my freshman year and
everything seemed to come into focus.
W&L was indeed different. Other schools
have greek systems, other schools use
alcohol (and in abundance), but no school
that I know of had the odd culture that
W&L had. I was never a part of this
culture because I wasn’t really all that into
alcohol, or fraternal bonds, for that matter.
Neither did I dislike the system— it’s always
been a peculiarly fascinating thing to me,
and certainly it provides both benefits and
negatives to the campus.

I think the primary reason this
culture is here is because there’s little else
to do in the fine city of Lexington,
Virginia, which frankly hasn’t been the
same since Dave Hunter burned it down
back in the day. The campus is not unlike
a desert island of 2000 people, detached
from the rest of the world. It’s a difﬁcult
way to live, because we really don’t have
all that much here. There is, of course,
the cadre of academics who pressure our
minds until they either break or become
accustomed and adapted to the stress.
Other than that, though, all we really have
is each other. Intime, we come to be closer
to a lot of people here than we ever were
with most of everyone we knew back
home.

Of course, much like a desert island,

things are fraught with intrigue, paranoia,

hierarchy and hatred. Gossip, rumor and

social climbing dominate the minds of a
surprising number of students at this
school, even above academics. There is a
very subtle order to things here— to the
value ranking of individuals as well as
groups. It can all be quite stressful, and
not surprisingly, the answer for most
students is the liberal consumption of
alcohol, which is the centerpiece of W&L
social life..

This culture, like it or not, is on the
retreat at W&L. It’s only necessary for
the sake of clarity to recite the evidence
that it is; the system’s supporters have
grown hoarse from screaming it. For
instance, there is the reduction of
pledgeship from the trying, even painful
and injurious process that it once to the
barely—tangible ritual of “new member
education” that is has become. It’s harder
to get into some facebook groups than it
is to get into most greek organizations.

There is the slow but steady clamp-
down on alcohol. The drinking age is 21,
they say, and the time has come to put
meaning into the drinking age law. I, of
course, along with most sane people on
this campus, including the administrators,
think a 21-year old drinking age is
ridiculous, and rightly so. But the law is
the law, they say, so wristbands and IDs
rule the day. In two years, I predict it will
be no easier to get underage alcohol at
W&L than anywhere else.

There are the little things. The
construction of the Commons has changed
things. The speaking tradition is dying a
slow, dragged—out, painful death. This is
a campus that hardly changed at all for
nearly ﬁfty years, and in the space of only
two years of my time here, it feels like a
completely different place.

Good riddance, you might say.
There are many who feel that the old W&L
was destructive to students, offered them
the wrong lessons about life and about
how to treat others.

Or, on the other hand, you might cry
for the preservation of tradition, for
defending the old W&L to the last.

Do the administrators really have a

master plan for changing the school’s
character? Is this change a good or a bad

thing? What are we losing, what are we V

gaining? None of thesequestion can really
be answered, but put on the Bob-Dylan,
because the times, they are a-changin’.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

THE RING-TUM PHI.

ﬂIeFb'y-amPhispIbIi§iedMmdaysdurhgﬂ"emdeIgradIatesdndyear
atwashingtonand Lee,UniveIsiIy, Lexington, Wgnia
ﬂisF§'ga:nHrlsameTberdTTePLbicaﬁuisBoaid,bInSdiiaw'seiidepaidat

77IeFthg-&mPHIvaeeNesItIerig1ttoeo1tsIbnmimsforoorIIentarid length.
LetIeIsamodumsdonmreoessamymﬂedteophbndﬂIeFtigamHiEdmnaJBoard.
Advertisingdoesnotreﬂecttheopinionsot 771eRI'ng-tunPhiori1sslaif.
1h’srIewspeperobsewaewna'vtooIindeftIiﬁorsd|bdarIdobsoeIity.

Just do it- success in

lies in gaining experience

ayAmeRnIey

‘ll-EBGPCTIIE

I’ve been thinking a lot lately
about what I want to do after college.
Yes, it’s only my sophomore year, but
I’ve never been one to procrastinate.
(Except for, apparently, in writing my
twice-monthly column, where my
personal trend has gone from turning
it in at the beginning of the week to
dangerously close to press time). But
seriously, I’m starting to understand
why there are so many movies about
twenty-sometliings trying to figure out
what to do with their lives.

In my case, coming up with ideas
has never been hard. In fact, my
problem has always been that there are
a million things I would love to do.
Growing up, my career dreams have
included, (but not been limited to),
ballet dancer, archaeologist, poet,
lawyer, Broadway singer, and
psychiatrist. It was the same story with
academics. I had to give up on my plan
for a double major because I couldn’t
narrow it down and didn’t want to limit
the kinds of classes I could take._

But I think I’ve found a good

/ philosophy. To borrow from Nike, just

do it. It seems obvious, but it is really
much more difficult thanit sounds.
Knowing what you plan on doing is one

thing, but making it a reality is quite
another. When I went to a roundtable
discussion with the directors that came to
the Worldfest Lexington Film Festival this
fall, they asked me to introduce myself and
why I came. I said that I wanted to be a
writer. One of the screenwriters interrupted
me. “You are a writer. Just say you’re a
writer.” But sitting there, I still felt that
saying that would make me a phony.
After that, I was determined to take
steps in the right direction. I’m currently
in a creative writing class, painstakingly
making my ﬁrst attempts at writing short
stories. It is stressful because I feel like,
more than ever, have a lot at stake in my
success or failure in a course. It is
challenging, but it is also rewarding. And
more importantly, I know that I am actually
doing what I have mostly just talked about.
The more I think about it, the more

I am sure that experience is the key. In »

taking classes which correspond to your
intended career and challenge you, or
ﬁnding a summer internship which does
the same, you are forcing yourself to step
up and look your future in the face. You
are also able to get a realistic idea of what
a profession, or a life, could be like. We’ ve
deﬁnitely all heard stories of pre-law or
pre-meds coming back from summer
internships that convinced them they were
in the wrong career path. But it should go
for everything. If you don’t want a surprise
after graduation, better explore your
options now.

Grafﬁti takes its rightful
place as artistic style

Iaycarassasiipiey

NT}-EFD\S

With Fancy Dress weekend
coming up, it’s my guess that our
campus will soon be covered with the

traditional sign of the Cadavers. The

addition of a new secret society on
campus is sure to bring about
interesting speculation. Will they also
mark the buildings with a cryptic
reminder of their existence? Even
though the Cadavers’ favorite media is
chalk and brick, could it be considered
grafﬁti?

The episode of “The
Apprentice” that aired a couple weeks

Mike Gorinan was a special
man to many in the Washington and
Lee community. Those of us in his

cabin for a wake in honor of our dear
friend. For the non-initiated, Big T is
Tom Anderson, the technical director
for the theater department. Alumni

Mike had a booming laugh
that could be heard in all parts of the
Lenfest Center every time it rang out.

the other day when I came across a page
devoted to graffiti. Each quote was
referenced to the place it was found,
weather sprayed on a wall, scratched into
a desk, or written in a random bathroom.
Among the quotes were observations
about the world, interesting bits of advice
and random thoughts. However crude or
humorous they were, each had a little bit
of truth to it. From “knowledge pursues
me but I’m faster” to “cancer cures
smoking,” the Cadaver’s symbol to
murals, graffiti’s image has been
revolutionized. While I don’t particularly
enjoy seeing bright orange paint spelling
out vulgar words as I’m driving under
bridges, I can’t help but think that it each
bit is art, wisdom, or even the tiniest

any project, even if he was already
overwhelmed with his own tasks. He
always had time to talk. Even if he was

A . was 1°-Ved and respected‘  theater family here decided to stressed, he ensured that you wouldn’t be.
_‘_ ’ ' A|stt>rrIis$ioI1smI.Iabe<.=rr\aiedtophi@vIr|u.eduorIntt1eUriveIsiiyCentermaboxby5p.m. 1-ememberhjminthewaythathelived- Mike was gnvoived with every
’. 0  i ‘ - H‘&"""""“‘ ' ~ — Fndayt°appearmmefd|°Vw‘gwed(Sedh°n‘ with laughter_ We gathered at Big T’s aspect of pretty much every event the

Lenfest hosted. He hung lights for almost
every show. He ensured that the stage was
perfect for each dance recital. He listened
to theater students and guided us through

importantly, our friend. Just so that he
knows, we’H be making some magic. This
one is for you, Mike.

G°°d ridda-‘Ices I S3Y- from far and wide came to celebrate a troubled times. He gave us direction and

dynamic life. Florida plates could be lent his passion for the theater to each of

Ostar Wars  III -,he,;,g,,,mp,,- seen in the drive and a ’96 alum joined us that were blessed enough to know him.
Trailers look good, but by god will I UrI‘~eIsityCmrrrrsRoom.341 us to talk about anything and The OneActs this year have been ‘

be pissed if this one turns out to suck  , everything, both that which related to dedicated to Mike’s memory. This is a

as as_the'Vlast—two. * I - TL9’“‘93“‘§zg4"%)"a2445° Mike and that which was somewhere fitting, even if inadequate, memorial to

L  " L « Fax' (5% )458_4o59Em out in left field.f :;hteNS£lfI1lflﬂ(3lalI)1eI him. file was the glue tlh/ntkheld them

-  (f E-ma]: -@W,U.edu presence was proo a e W toget er in years past. i e was our

Even the Rehnquist Court won't pass  sorely missed. mentor, our teacher, our savior, and, most

 

Y

IVIQDAYJVIARCI-I14.,ZXﬁ

“If you go to Vegas and bet a dollar on the Royals

making the playoﬁs, your potential payout is 100%

of the money there is in the entire world.”

QLl0TE0FTHEWEEKJonaoisarumrwebsnenogessiveeonwan ,

THERING-TUMPHI 0 7

Free your mind from the OC and prime ti]

ByBeckyLeMo'ne

Tl-E UBERALVlEW

It is always the same, each Thursday
from eight to nine ‘o’ clock some of my
friends mysteriously disappear.

No, they are kidnapped.

While I am out either being
productive or avoiding productivity by
actually enjoying life, they are wasting
away in front of a television screen,
immersed in the lives of non—existent
people that they wish they could be.

Yes, the OC mercilessly kidnaps my
friends, each and every week, and I am
powerless to stop it.

This would not be too annoying, if
it weren’t for the fact that they are also
kidnapped weekly by Desperate
Housewives, One Tree Hill, Alias, ER, and
Extreme Makeover, among others.
Religiously watching TV seems to have

become a central part of W&L life, and
that is unfortunate.

You might argue that TV is relaxing,
and I won’t disagree there. Mindless
entertainment that transports you from
reality is indeed relaxing, and I have no
problem with people who choose TV as a
means of escaping theldrudgery and
intensity of classes.

However, I am disgusted by people
who center their lives on whether or not
Marissa is a lesbian or if Seth and Summer
wiH get back together.

When TV shows begin interfering
with daily activities, in essence real life,
then TV is no longer a relaxation
technique, it is simply an obsession.

Another argument is that TV creates
bonding among TV watchers, since most
of the time at W&L people gather in large
groups to enjoy an episode of their favorite
TV show.

How do a few laughs and gossip
about what the next episode has in store
represent real bonding in any way at all?
A bond, as deﬁned by dictionarycom, is
“a close personal relationship.”

If all you are doing is staring at a
screen, laughing at the impossible
situations that unrealistic characters
experience, how are you able to form a
close and personal relationship with the
person sitting next to you?

Friendship involves more than
regarding ﬂickering images on a TV
screen. TV is not a means of bonding;
rather, it is a means of avoiding reality,
and thus a way to avoid real bonding with
those around you.

People also seem to have this
misconceived notion that they can actually
relate to the characters.

Maybe they can relate to the
common feelings of love or hate, but, in

context, how can they relate to characters
that are never in real-life situations?

For example, how many times have
you kissed or been kissed in the
“Spiderman” position?

To examine a TV show with long-
standing popularity, look at Friends.

Five twenty-something year olds
with low—paying jobs, such as waiting
tables and acting, living together in
relatively nice, spacious apartments in
New York City... how realistic is that?

Not very.

While it may be convenient and
agreeable to our consciences to believe
that most people have carefree and easy
lives like that, it would be a stretch to say
that, in reality, life would run so smoothly.

Even at W&L, despite popular
belief, most of the students don’t lead lives
as glamorous as the characters on the OC
do.

rne’s television schedules

So, if you honestly feel like your life
or love life is a mirror of the OC, then
congratulations, you have never had to
deal with reality.

I am not asking for, and do not
expect a dramatic anti-television
movement.

I simply hope that at least one
religiously devoted TV watcher will step
back and realize the folly of his or her
ways, and make an attempt not to fall
further into the trap of corporate media.

Missing one episode for a change
will not kill you; it will only make you
stronger.

So, when given the choice to
experience real life or to hide from it,

I hope you will make the right
decision. However, if, despite your best
intentions, you can’t possibly survive
without the OC, I suggest investing in a
VCR.

Prof. DeLaney supports academic freedom for University speakers

Dear Editor,

Student organizations have
brought an amazing variety of speakers to
campus this year, and for that they should
be complimented. In past years I have not

always been happy with the line-up of

speakers because they almost always
represented one political perspective, and
a university must be a place where all
ideologies and topics are open to full
discussion and debate. Intellectually
curious students should have exposure to
a full array of speakers, and those speakers
should never be censored because of
ideology or radicalism.

Just a couple of weeks prior to
the presidential election, Students for Life
brought Jesse Lee Peterson to campus, an
ultra—conservative black minister who is
hyper-critical of the black community, and

no one condemned that choice more than
me. The title of his lecture was highly
inflammatory and prejudicial; yet in
retrospect I am glad Reverend Peterson
came to Washington and Lee. His talk was
controversial enough to generate a
conversation within the student body that
has led to the variety of speakers that we
have seen.

No speaker, however, has
generated greater controversy than Angela
Davis, and that debate has persisted for
nearly two months. As a professor who
teaches African American history, I was
delighted to have her here for two reasons.
First, the “black power” movement and
“black nationalism” are two themes I cover
in my classes, and she represents both.
Second, there is a fundamental difference
between the views of black _an;dV white

Americans, and the black community has
great admiration for Angela Davis. More
important, her presence seemed to
demonstrate that the student body has
discovered the importance of diversity of
opinion and academic freedom. The ﬂap
over her visit has caused me to rethink my
own commitment to academic freedom.
More than forty years ago, a
student religious group at W and L took
the initiative to invite Dr. Martin Luther
King to campus. Washington and Lee was
a segregated institution at the time, and
the Board of Trustees quickly rescinded
King’s invitation. University President
Fred Cole and an outraged faculty
defended thestudents’ choice and asserted
the importance of academic freedom. Dr.
King never spoke-at here, and no one
learned more about the folly of censoring

Project horizonPresident praises BRAVE abuse

Dear Editors,

I congratulate and thank Heather
Owens and all the Washington and Lee
students who organized and participated
in the recent Beauty Revue Against Violent
Encounters (BRAVE) events. Your efforts
to combat domestic violence in our
community are vital. By all accounts, the
events were a resounding success.

I would like to correct a couple of

' errors in Katherine Greene’s story in the

March 17 Phi, in statements attributed to
Ms. Owens:

“‘[Victims of domestic abuse] had
no place to turn,’ said Owens, who accuses

J
ofaama@/
r/T

FINE LINGERIE

sluzpewear
strapless
. hosiery
slips

check us out p
for all your Fancy Dress
foundations

21 W. Nelson St.

463-6963
Mon - Fri 10-5:30
Sat 10-5

“sanperublsububl”

both the community and authorities in
Lexington of denying the problem and
refusing to help victims of domestic
violence....’[T]he law in this town won’t
help.”’ Since 1985, Project Horizon has
served local victims of domestic and
dating violence and sexual abuse.

Our staff of 12 provides services
including safe shelter at Lisa’s House for
up to 30 days, professional counseling,
guidance through the legal system and
resources to help clients make decisions
about their future. Last year, we served 286
local clients, including 81 women and
children sheltered in Lisa’s House, which

~.,..._..‘......~.,...»..........-...._.......,......-».,,,»..,....«l....-Z«L.~..«

averaged four clients a night. In addition,
Project Horizon staff provided 460
educational programs to 3,200 community
residents.

Local law enforcement officials
have proven deeply sensitive to the needs
of Project Horizon’s clients. Our
relationship with police and sheriff’s
deputies is excellent.

Our clients have solid allies and
advocates in their ranks. Representatives
of our local Commonwealth’s Attorneys’
offices and the local courts sit on our
volunteer board of directors. Aformer
police ofﬁcer is on Project Horizon’s staff.

w......,a... _.. Niﬁﬁﬁ ......_,_.,..,...,.»"¢~,.

speakers than the student religious group
and the faculty. The trustees were wrong!

If this university is to occupy a
place among the highly ranked universities
in this nation, it cannot and must not
censor speakers, no matter how
outrageous. We must commit ourselves
to academic freedom and free speech.
Intellectually curious students and faculty
members must always have the
opportunity to hear a wide array of
speakers. I doubt whether either Jesse Lee
Peterson or Angela Davis converted
anyone to their views while on campus,
but the campus is much richer because we
dared to provide a forum for both of them.
Washington and Lee students are bright,
not gullible. They are not easily
impressionable. More important, both

students and faculty were able to hear‘

beneﬁt, makes Phi corrections

Ms. Owens is further quoted:
“W&L has been such a great help to my
cause, in a community that has the attitude
that abuse doesn’t happen here.”

Last year, more than 85 volunteers
— including Washington and Lee students
— gave nearly 4,000 hours of their time to
Project Horizon. Among other duties, they
answered 726 calls on our 24-hour hotline
(463-2594).

Six years ago, hundreds of local
volunteers joined us in building Lisa’s
House, demonstrating that this community
cares deeply about serving the victims of
domestic violence.

those speakers and discuss or debate
their merits. The only regrettable part
of the debate is that some of us said
they were inappropriate choices. And
I confess to having said as much about
Peterson. I will never do that again.
But I will argue for variety, for diversity
of opinion, and I will support the right
of students to bring anyone to campus.
My hope is that we continue to hear
both the right and the left and
everything between.

Sincerely,
Theodore C. DeLaney ‘85
Associate Professor of History

Again, congratulations and thanks
to those of you who made BRAVE a
success.

And to the Phi editors, I am always
happy to provide your reporters.with facts
about this community’s support for Project
Horizon and its clients.

Cheers,

Brian Richardson

Journalism Department Head

President, Project Horizon Board of
Directors

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 000-
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call 'IO11AY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with CampusFundraiser.
Contact CarnpusFundraiser, (888) 923-3238, or

you ﬁnd it.

acrunaplors

rtahlra,

SUMMER CLRIPIOBB

 the beat mnnmer cafyour
lite? Easter Seals  can help
We are caruxnitlaad ta
helping people  disaibilitiea gain
greater  nce.
d.ed1c'.a.i.ed. iearn. this aru.nn'ner' at Caxrrp
Enator Seals Vixgizda in Craig Country.
We haavu job openings for cauup
arid prograrn Lender:
( , haraabauk riding,
apart: and moan}.
board and aalnxy provided.
iruﬁorrnaticm. contact Deborah Duet): at
<:l;duerJn@v=a.eas*taraaa.1a.c:orn or at
(540) 884-6260. Visit our webaite to
learn how you man rnake a. cliﬂerence.
www.va.easteraaaJa.cmn

-Join our

xrnnaic,
Rocun,

Pow

Harlem
ospel Choir
Evans Hall  

March 22, 8 p.m.
Sponsored by GAB  

  

 

 

    
  

 

8 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

MQlDAY,MARCH14,21XB

-Hmm...does my opinion really
matter?

lWhy, again was I not invited to be on
a task force?

‘ -I think the students should stop

whining. If you really cared about the
strategic plan, you would have gone to
the information sessions earlier in the
year. ~

-Let’s strategically plan to get rid of
the Colonnade. The only thing it does
is remind us that we’re not Swarthmore
or Davidson.

-1 love anything that requires
plans...The school planning ten years
ahead...now that’s cool.

.As long as the school plans for a
Starbucks somewhere on campus, I’ll
be happy.

-Don’t ‘strategic plans cost a lot of
money? I guess my mother is going to
have to take up a second job to pay for
my rising tuition costs.

-What’s the strategic plan?

-The strategic plan is going to kill
the Greek System and no one cares.

-It can be summed up in one
word...Strategery.

-For being such a Republican
school, you would think more people
would care about tuition and room
and board prices increasing. I mean,
it’s like the same thing as your taxes
going up.

-Clearly everyone in the
administration is a genius. We
should just blindly follow their lead
and shake our heads in agreement.

-Strategic planning is a good thing.
How else would we function as a
university if we didn’t set goals?

Nextﬁme’stopic:
FancyDnessand
paitystories

Selling out  
feels so good

Lex—town needs Starbucks, Chipotle

By:-iugmout
'|T‘eFdierrna1

The title of this week’s article is
appropriate for several reasons. First, I
feel I am morally obligated to inform my
readers how quickly I sold out, and how
great it felt. As some of my more
consistent readers may remember, I wrote
an article espousing the wonders of Red
Bull and how great an asset it can be in
times of stress. Well, the good people at
Red Bull (1 don’t know how they read the
article) were nice enough to give me a
bunch of free Red Bull and some other
stuff, which needless to say helped me get
through hell week. In all honesty, I had
no idea such a thing could happen, but hey,
I’m not complaining. So, in case you’re
wondering, this will be the basis for future
articles I am planning: “Rolex: What else
is there?” and “TiVo is for cool people.”
Keep your ﬁngers crossed.

But beyond my personal sell-out,
there is another case in which selling out
is badly needed. Speciﬁcally, the historic
town of Lexington needs to sell out harder
than Cuba Gooding Jr. did after Jerry
McGuire. While there can be a persuasive
argument made for maintaining the
integrity of a town steeped in tradition and
rich historical background, there also can
be a pretty damn good argument for selling
out. . '
While coming from D.C. it is nice
to not worry about crime and traffic, there
are things that I miss every day while in
Lex-town. For example, those who are
lucky enough to come from an area with a
Chipotle know that Lexington needs such
an amazing burrito shop. I have also talked
with several friends of mine who discussed
their hope for a Starbucks. While that isn’t
nearly as much on my radar as the
Chipotle, I enjoy hearing others desire for
such franchises. But why, you might ask,
should Lexington sell its soul to a bunch
of franchises that can be found everywhere
else?

Because it feels good, and
Lexington needs to realize it can
maintain its integrity as a historic site
while serving fast—food. Besides, a
town with a Wal-Mart five minutes
away, keeping out Chipotle (I am not
sure that an attempt has been made to
keep Chipotle out, but I hear that a
Starbucks was indeed blocked) in
order to maintain its mom—and-pop
shop feel is like Michael Jackson
hanging a baby out a window and then
refusing to do interviews because the
media makes him looks strange. Once
Wal-Mart has moved in, big corporate
America is already there and there is
no going back, so you might as well
enjoy.

It’s ﬁne to sell out every once in
a while, but then there are those who
take it too far. These include the
Backstreet Boys (I was a fan of them
until they became so image-obsessed
and went all commercial. . .they forgot
it’s about the music), whoever provides
my cable (thanks for changing all the
channels on me in the middle of Hell
Week, that was really convenient) and
the NHL (not the ‘owners, not the
players, but every single person
involved). These people are not the
cool, commercial-friendly people, like
wonderful Hilary Duff, they are more

like trashy reality TV stars. They don’t ‘

know where to draw the line.

So go out and enjoy selling out
a little bit; It’s safe and good fun for
everyone, just don’t take it too far,
because its one thing to get a bunch of
free Red Bull, but it’s another to end
up with a bunch of bad tasting Coors
Lite. After all, why would you drink
that horrible stuff when you could enjoy
the cool, refreshing taste of Bud Lite
with its superior taste and higher
quality? In an unrelated note, all
packages containing beverages should
be directed to The Fisherman at PO.
Box 4493 of the Lexington Post Ofﬁce.
(Can’t blame me for trying).

OncejWal—Mart has moved in, big corporate
America is already thereiand there is no go-
ing back, so you might as well enjoy. '

Do FD the right way

Breka gives advice from ﬁnding a date to ﬂowers

ByEkaA|<pd<'pmdBreeMellm

Bde

We’re Breka (pronounced break-
uh); you may have heard it muttered in
awe and admiration on the Beirut tables.
But it has come to be so much more than
a team name. It’s two single girls that take
W&L’s social scene by storm. We know
it all, we’ve seen it all and now we’re
gonna share it all! Well maybe not what
happened last weekend, but everything
else.

This brings us to the topic of this
week’s column: Fancy Dress—what to do,
what not to do and how to score (maybe?).
“Like build her a cake or something.”
First off, who should you ask? Well,_unlike
the majority of this campus, we feel you
should ask someone that goes to this
school. Exceptions to this rule include,
and only include: actual facebook ofﬁcial
significant others (this does not include
your best friend from 4"‘ grade, you can
see them in the summer), friends with
terminal diseases, and people that pay you
large amounts of money, but even that’s a
little shabby. I mean really people, with a
campus that’s almost 50/50 there’s just no
excuse. Well, maybe there is one
acceptable excuse: to cop—out and instead
of taking a chance for some sketchy dance
ﬂoor action, you take a road trip. Oh no
wait, YOU’RE GOING, end of story. FD
weekend is not the time to bond with your
brothers, visit family or friends (see
above), or get a hair cut (lamest excuse
ever!).

So now it’s decided, you’re going;
we’re all going——with each other. But who
on campus do you ask? When is the
appropriate time? Well, if you hadn’t
noticed, your time is up. The dance is on
Saturday, the dresses have been bought
(well, at least ours have), now all you need
to do is step it up. Prime time would have
been this past weekend, did you ask
someone ? Do you remember asking them ?
Helpful hint from Breka: leave yourself a
voicemail, note on your mirror, or even
sharpie across the forehead; these are all
tried and true methods to remind yourself
of drunken nights past. But if you’re still
in doubt, you could always ask a friend.
Going with a non—romantic interest has a
number of beneﬁts. And boys, not every

So" now, it’s decided: you ’re going; we’re all

going—with each other.

But who on campus do

you ask? When is the appropriatetime? Well if
you hadn’t noticed, your time is up. The dance
is on Saturday, the dresses have been bought
(well, at least ours have), now all you need to

do is step it up.

girl thinks an invite to a date function
means anything more than...you invited
her to a date function. It’s really just that
simple. But that goes for you ladies too,
don’t take it too seriously. But let’s face
it, guys are idiots and you might just not
have a date. Going stag isn’t bad, you’re
hot, so are your friends, and you might just
pick up some potential dates in the
process. Of course, you could always ask
him yourself, but at least offer to split the
cost.

However, for those “friends” that
may end up as more than just friends (only
for the night, of course) Breka has three
words for you: boutonniere equals booty.
Start the night out right and maybe you’ll
end it right too.

“Do you like strawberries or

p blueberries?”

“Why do you ask?”

“Cause I wanna know how to make
your pancakes in the morning.”

Smooth. Real smooth. Speaking of
food, please don’t pass out in your dinner.
It’s not cool and just plain sloppy. FD is
all about pacing. Afternoon cocktail
parties are awesome as long as you know
your lirriits. We suggest picking a drinking
partner of equal size and gender. Maybe
you’re concerned about ﬁtting into your
dress, this does not mean skip dinner, it
means eat something, anything. A home
cooked meal, an affordable alternative to
Wilson-Walker house. But if you do
happen to go a little over your limit ladies,
remember this: body tape, body tape, body
tape. Paris Hilton-esque exposure is not
so cool on our ultra-conservative campus.
Boys on- the other hand, well, just ask
Breka first.

By now, you’ve hopefully made it
to the dance. Decorations are awesome,
music is fabulous—and your date is gone.
FD ditching has become an increasing
problem over the years, mysteriously
correlated to our intake of alcohol. First
off, remember what your date is wearing
or at least her hair color. We also suggest
exchanging cell phone numbers and
keeping them handy, having a central
location to ‘meet if you get separated, or
strapping yourselves together with either
rope or handcuffs (kinky but sometimes
appropriate). Speaking of kinky, mid-
formal nooky is deﬁnitely a no-no. No
matter how well you think you’ve ﬁxed
your hair, everyone can tell. Once you
leave the dance, it’s suggested you stay
home. And if that’s what you’re planning
on, have a change clothes or at least a
different pair of shoes. You may pull off
the “Sunday morning jogger” in gym
shorts and an oversized t—shirt, but the
stilettos will give you away every time.
But no worries, if you forget the shoes,
we’ll be set up in the quad with snacks
and “leftover beverages” to laugh with you
on your way home.

To sum up,

Splitting the cost of FD with a
friend: $50

Going the “extra mile” with the
boutonniere from J effersons:

$8

WaHo trip at 10:30 the next
morning (either with your girls or your
date):

$10

Doing FD the Breka way, the right
way: '

Priceless

Potato Mari tries to grasp
the concept of marriage

Bymashalnuie

Pdmlvhi

This week was my grandparent’s
50"‘ anniversary. Fifty years with one
person. It is truly mind-boggling when
you think that two people can be together
for that long.

They were together when John F.
Kennedy was assassinated. They were
together when we landed on the moon and
when the Berlin Wall fell. They were
together when Nixon resigned and when
Mike Tyson bit a man’s ear off.

In a time when we only hear about
the marriages that go bad, it’s nice to hear
about the ones that survive.

For ﬁfty years my grandma has read
romance novels and cooked amazing
Thanksgiving meals, and for fifty years,
my grandpa has worked the farm and
plumbing business and come home to his
trusty recliner and Western movies.

For fifty years they have fished,
camped and watched high school football
games. Like all marriages, there were
times of trouble, yet they were able to‘
overcome them.

I have trouble spending fifty
seconds with a girl without getting bored
out of my mind, yet day after day for over
18,000 days, they have been together.

They have been married for ﬁve
times longer than my parents were, who
only made it ten years before they decided
to hire lawyers.

This enormous event got me to

think about marriage and how it counters
all human emotions and desires.

The idea that someone would want
to sacriﬁce nearly all of their individual
freedom in order to get a curfew and never
be able to look at another girl again (or at
least until the inevitable divorce) is
ridiculous.

The human body and mind was not
designed to be with one girl. Some people
say that a purely monogamous relationship
that lasts the rest of your life is much more
satisfying than the dating scene. While I
obviously don’t know about marriage, or
a serious relationship over a few months
(and by a few, I mean two), I can’t imagine
that it is that fulﬁlling.

Think about all of the obligations
that come with a serious relationship.
Calling on your way home from the strip
club. . .er. . .. I mean, working late. The in-
laws birthday parties that always happen
to fall on the worst possible days. N o more
getting wasted. Every purchase you ever
make is questioned, especially the $340

spent on a 900 number.

When something breaks, you
actually have to fix it right, rather than
just using duck tape to ﬁx the problem.
The ﬁght for the remote control is a brutal
battle, and you will always inevitably
lose.

Any time that you ﬁght, she will
always bring up something you did
wrong in the past, and you will sleep on
the couch. Any sense of your manhood
is gone, and your single friends begin to
fade into the distance and new married
ones begin to be your friends.

No longer are there beer bongs and
beirut, but rather board games and a glass
or two of wine. Ten o’clock at night is
late, and so too is ten in the morning.

Yet, for some reason, ' my
grandparents decided to get married. And
for some reason they have stayed together
for ﬁfty years and never once complained
about it. They actually like it.

I guess in their old age they have
become senile.

The idea that someone would want to sacriﬁce
nearly all of their individual freedom in order to
get a curfew and never be able to look at an-

divorce) is ridiculous.

V other girl again (or at least until the inevitable

o

 

