   

 WASH N ANBIEEE UNIVERSITY

PHI

VOLUME CVII. , No. 16
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

Frats survive  weekend, four DUI ’s reported

BY ERIN JULIUS AND CHRIS LAUDERMAN thelastweekofNovember,University securityarmounced

EDlT()R—IN—CHIl'£l7 AND MANAGING EDITOR

Fraternities survived their ﬁrst weekend un-
der the new alcohol enforcement policy with little prob-
lem, but many changes. Parties were moved into hotels,
restaurants, and off campus houses where students
could drink, regardless of their age.

Lexington police chief Bruce Beard reported four .

anests for driving under the inﬂuence and one arrest for
indecent exposure and drunk in public.

“There were an awful lot of alcohol-related inci-
dents this weekend,” Beard said. “I don’t know if that
[enforcement of the alcohol policy] was the reson we
had more DUI’s or not.”

At the Inter Fratemity Council meeting during

 

liked . its
absut ts‘

coldisatiurday,

to"v}atch tlreérty;s"a ,

 -‘frssaw it last year _
thing and it’sso.tcool,’f*‘ ‘ x

 

BY KATHRYN KRALL
STr\I’I~‘ \X’RITF.R

On Thursday evening, the Glasgow Endow-
ment presented a lecture by Roy Blount J r., a well-
known humorist and author. Blount has written
columns for The New York Times, The Oxford
American, Esquire, Rolling Stone, Playboy, and
Sports Illustrated. He was praised by the Chi-
cago Tribune, which reported that “he has be-
come America’s fore-
most humorist.”

Blount is the au-
thor of sixteen books,
including “Robert E.
Lee: A Biography.”
Raised in Georgia,
Blount enjoys com-
menting on American
customs and is an avid
spokesman for
“Southernness.”

The subject of
his talk was his recent
work on Robert E. Lee.
He read selections from
his work, in addition to
sharing interesting
facts he learned about ,
Lee while doing research for his biography. He
presented humorous and often scandalous tid-
bits about General Lee that most people have
never heard. Blount came across many little-
known details. “Lee wore size 4 ‘/2 C shoes. I just
couldn’t get past that- it sounded round! I
thought maybe the author was talking about Trav-
eller or something.” Blount mentioned that we
know relatively little about Lee’s personal life,
but “one thing we do know about him— he was
fond of having his hands and feet tickled.”

Even mundane events in Lee’s life were

Glasgow Ehddwmentspeakeri 
cc ' 9 ' ' I
America s foremost
humorist” talks about Lee

 

CoURrI«:sY W&L News OFI-‘l(ZlZ

Mr. Blount replied that he had an idea for a new

that they would be looking for underage drinking at frater-
nity parties and reporting violations to the Administration
and IFC. '
Allpartiesintlrefraterrrityhouseswillrequirevt/rist—
bands to identify legal drinkers. If security sees a student
drinking in a fratemity house, the security ofﬁcer will ask
the student to show identiﬁcation.
Mike Young, Director of Security and almost every
security guard attended the meeting. According to Brent
" Beshore, President of Lambda Chi, Young said security
would look for underage drinking during  Week-A
end. “No longer will security look the other way when
underage drinking occurs on campus,” said Beshore.
Freshmen men said that alcohol was easy to obtain
off carnpus.“'Ihere didn’t seem to be any formalities in

r r —

presented with wit and humor. Blount recounted
an episode occurring while Lee was president of
Washington College. “When reviewing the
troops at VMI with General Smith, he'wanted to
show that he was out of the army, so he would
purposely walk out of step. That takes a lot of
rhythm. Maybe Lee wasn’t as white as we al-
ways thought.” ,
_ Toward the end of
the lecture, Blount
opened the floor-for
questions, because, ac-
cording to him, this im-
proves almost every-
thing. “A lot of plays
could be improved by
throwing the ﬂoor open
for questions. For ex-
ample, Othello. If they
had opened the ﬂoor for
‘ questions about half-
way through, the trag-
edy could have been
averted.”

. Freshman Dane
Boston related what he
found particularly hu-
morous, “When asked

what he thought of the Confederate battle flag,

Southern flag, incorporating a black hand and

 

white hand clasped in friendship on a symboli-
cally chromatic ﬁeld of blue (the sky) and green
(money), over the motto ‘Just ﬁne. And you?’”

The evening ended with Mr. Blount sing-
ing his original country song, “I’m Just a Bug on
the VVrndshield of Life.” V

“I enjoyed his sharp wit and talent for
storytelling,” said Dane Boston, “It was a delight-
ful Dixie—themed time in Lee Chapel.”

getting drinks,” said one freshman man. “We just had
older friends getting us drinks.”

According to ﬁeshmen, fraternities reportedly fol-
lowed the rules in the house. “You needed a wristband to
get cocktails or champagne in the house,” said a freshman
ml .
“We did not serve alcohol at dinner in the house,”
Erik Kiewiet de Jonge, President of Phi. Psi, said

But University security told a different story. “We
had some problems in the houses,” said Young.

The problems involved serving underage students,
no use of wristbands, and a communal source of alcohol
in four or ﬁve ofthe houses.

Fraternity presidents feel that parties will continue
to shift off campus. Beshore echoed Kiewiet de Jonge in
believing that this will be a trend

“[Parties being moved off campus] depends on
how the school enforces the policy in the future,” said
Kiewiet de J onge‘.

Traveling in and out of the country was not diffi-
cult for students. Fraternities provided sober drivers.
Traveller’s servicesalsoranfrom l0p.m. to2a.m. “lthink
they [the fraternity] gave rides out before everyone started
drinking,” saidafreshman man.”

“It was easy for me to get a ride,” said Drew McWay,
a freshman who went out to the Polehouses. He also
said that the fraternity provided sober drives when-
ever anyone needed one.

One country party had three kegs and hard liquor,
said one freshman man. According to several freshmen
men, champagne and liquor ﬂowed freely at off-campus
houses.

_, , ‘ singing” the  of Christmas
wi om the‘"Academy playing

  

Students advance in Rhodes  

Waddell reaches the ﬁnal stage of interviews

BY SARAH MURRAY
NEWS EDITOR

This year’s list of Rhodes Scholars does not
include any students from Washington & Lee Univer-
sity, but four students distinguished themselves in the
demanding application process.

Ricky Busby ’05, Robyn Konkel ’05, Jererrriah
McW"rlliams ’05, and Trrnothy Waddell ’04 all advanced
to the semi-ﬁnal interviews, with Waddell continuing
to the final stage of interviews.

There are about 1000 Rhodes applicants every
year. Applicants with exceptional references and per-
sonal statements attend state-wide interviews. Ap-
proximately 100 students advance from the state level
to the eight regional interviews. Four winners are se-
lected from each region—32 total—and receive full
scholarships for graduate work at the University of
Oxford in the United Kingdom.

About six to ten W&L students apply to Rhodes
annually. This year, 13 students and graduates applied
and four received state interviews. Both numbers could
tie or even set a school record, although ofﬁcial docu-
mentation doesn’t go back far enough to confirm that.

Applying for a Rhodes scholarship was an ob-
vious choice for Busby, who is majoring in Medieval
and Renaissance Studies with a concentration in Art
History. “I knew thatl wanted to go to graduate school
and the Rhodes made perfect sense—2 years of fully-
funded study at one of the best universities in the
world.” ‘

Konkel, a public policy major, was familiar with
the procedure after interviewing for a Truman Fellow-
ship in her junior year. Even so, the selection process
was challenging. “’Ihe other ten competitors were
amazing people,” she said. "The interview itself was,

I to put it mildly, intense.”

George Bent, Associate Dean for Student Aca-
demic Support, works as the faculty liason for Rhodes
applicants. His experiences have convinced him that
students here are strong contenders. “Rhodes. . .is
looking for a leader who performs well in the class-
room, who is interested in talking about issues inside
and outside of the classroom, and who is willing to take

intellectual risks,” he said.

This year’s applicants in particular convinced
him that there is a “core group of students” who ﬁt the
bill. And on W&L’s small campus, those students
have more opportunities to get involved in athletics,
community service, and club leadership.

“I would put any of them against anyone else’s
any day,” Bent said.

Politics professor Robert Strong has a similar
esteem for students after supervising the Rhodes ap-
plicants in past years. “Every year the W&L juniors
inducted into ODK, Phi Beta Kappa, and other honor
societies plus the recipients of various athletic awards
and acaderrric prizes. . .constitute an impressive group,”
Strong said.

. Bent also insists that the school’s much—vaunted
name recognition comes into play. “Washington &
Lee University carries some clout. They know us,”

V Bent said. “Your next—door neighbor may not know

what ‘Washington and Jefferson’ is, but the people
who matter do.”

Several statistics reflect these strengths. Strong
scoured the Internet for other schools with four Rhodes
interviews; he found none outside of the Ivy League,
national military academies, and a few large state uni-
versities. The University ofV1rginia, with almost 13,000
students enrolled, only received three state interviews
to W&L’s four.

Yet this year’s record numbers and strong appli-
cants did not alter a 13-year stretch without Rhodes
Scholars. No W&L student or graduate has won a
Rhodes scholarship since Patricia Lope.s—Harris in 1991 .
In comparison, the News Office reports that six W&L
students won scholarships between 1973 and 1983.

Bent says one large obstacle in recruiting for
Rhodes is that many students consider themselves to
be unworthy of a scholarship.

“[W&L students] go to Nicaragua. They work
in soup kitchens. They do things,” Bent said. “They
should be knocking my door down, but instead they’re
all bashful with their hands in their pockets.”

Out of this year’s 32 winners, 16 are women and 16
are men. The most successful schools were Harvard. with
ﬁve winners, and the U. S. Naval Academy, with three.

’ ton to include a martini bar opened its

' says this time the date is definite.
‘ of gourmet and international cuisines,

I as well Internet shopping and an
4 online cataloge, the 14,700 square-foot

' and Washington D.C. and was Demi

V King. There will also be a cyber-café,
' come to study.

J‘ opening of the store have been long
and frustrating, with constant rumors

 open and whether it is connected with

 legally or financially connected with

/, ﬂy  .. . ..I
-uw§9...... .. 

PAGE2 DEC {F8 2084

The first grocery store in Lexing-

doors on Nov. 20. A grocer carrying
gourmet cuisines from around the
world, has been trying to open for al-
most two years, but owner Erik King

Besides offering a wide selection

store located in the Lexington College
Square Shopping Center will have two
separate restaurants, Café Mohring
and Matsumato Sushi Bar.

Sam Matsumato, the sushi chef,
has owned restaurants in Richmond

Moore’s personal sushi chef during
the filming of GI. Jane.

Cafe Mohring will offer a full cof-
fee bar. “We’re going to be the
Starbucks of Lexington, I think,” said

where King hopes local students will

The months leading up to the

circulating about when the store will

Foods of All Nations in Charlottesville.
The Charlottesville store is not

the store in Lexington. But Erik King, the
owner of the Lexington store, is the son of the
founder of the Charlottesville store.

King’s father is still on the board of di-

’ rectors at the other store, but the two are run
" separately.

Although King’s family remains close to

the Charlottesville store, King said the rela-

BY LEAH KERSHAW
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University President

. Tom Burish, who began his work with the Ameri-

- can Cancer Society 20 years ago when he accepted

a grant for cancer research, has vowed to drasti-

» cally reduce cancer rates during his term as chair-
’- man ofthe ACS.

Burish is proud to be the new chairman of

‘ the ACS, the largest nonprofit voluntary health or-

ganization in the world. Burish said that it is a “privi-
lege to follow exceptional leaders.” As chairman of

— the ACS, Burish will be working with millions of

other people to reduce cancer rates in America.This

’ year alone 1.3 million people will be diagnosed with

cancer and 550,000 people will die of cancer related

' illness.

International grocery store opens after t

BY MEGAN WARD
STAFF WRITER

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

I CORBIN BLACKFORD / THE RrNc;—TUMPHI

tions between the two are strained. The
Charlottesville store says otherwise.

Butch Brown, CEO and president of
Foods of All Nations, says that the relation-
ship is fine, and he hopes the Lexington store
will be successful.

‘ “I think that Lexington will benefit from a
store like that,” said Brown.

By the year 2015, Burish’s goal is to have
reduced the age adjusted incidence of cancer by
25% and cancer related deaths by 50%. The ACS
has partnered with the Center for Disease Control
and the National Cancer Institute to meet this goal.
Every year since the mid l990’s, the rates of both
age adjusted cancer mortality and the incidence of

cancer have decreased. Burish said the decrease is K
i the result of fewer people choosing to smoke. 25-

30 % of cancer related deaths are affected by smok-
ing.

Burish outlined a multifaceted plan to reach
his goal. Health education in schools must be in-
creased to stress to importance of healthy habits
such as exercise early in people’s lives. The mass
media will continue to play an important role through
commercials and advertising. ACS has also recently
joined in a partnership with the American Heart

GAB looking ahead after problems
with Christmas Weekend scheduling

Leaders plan for “three or more” events during winter, spring

BY KATHERINE SHELL
ASST NEWS EDITOR

After the excitement on
campus surrounding the Christ-
mas Weekend band sponsored
by the General Activities Board,
students were surprised to
learn that neither band was ac-
tually as available as the GAB
had previously thought. How-
ever, the GAB looks forward to
booking more bands for this
year and using the student sur-
vey again to determine which
bands the students want to see
perform on campus.

W&L students were
polled over the weekend of
November 5, with Better than
Ezra and Pat McGee winning
over Bone Thugs ‘N Harmony
by 7 votes. After the survey,
the GAB attempted to book Bet-
ter than Ezra and Pat McGee for
Christmas Weekend. Because

of family conﬂicts, Better than
Ezra was unavailable, and the
GAB withdrew their contract.
The second runner up, Bone
Thugs ‘N Harmony, was offered
a contract, but was unwilling to
comply with a previously agreed
upon contract. The GAB was
unable, because of unexpected
circumstances, to book a band
for Christmas Weekend.

Next semester, the GAB
plans to have “roughly three or
more concert-like entertainment”
this year, says Hartley Meiic, ’07,
and a member of the GAB. The
GAB is looking into attempting
to book Bone Thugs ‘N Har-
mony for next semester. Lauren
Peters, ’O6, President of the Gen-
eral Activities Board, said, “We
cannot disclose at this time ex-
actly what bands we are look-
ing into for next term, but we do
hope to utilize the student sur-
vey again.” She also added,

“We are looking into the Harlem
Gospel Choir for spring, and al-
ternative entertainment options
such as Peking Acrobats or
Harlem Globetrotters.” Students
will definitely have input on
which bands will visit the W&L
campus in the future.

In the past, the GAB has
been able to book such bands
as Karl Denson’s Tiny Universe

‘for Homecoming 2003, and has

been sponsoring General Com-
edy in the Commons every
Wednesday night where stu-
dents are able to see student
opening acts and professional
comedians. Also, the GAB has
organized Common Grounds in
Café ’77 with live acoustic per-
formances. This year, GAB
brought Keller Williams for
Kellerween, and Drive By Truck-
ers for Homecoming. Students
can look forward to more acts
visiting Lexington this year.

SUSHI IN LEXINGTON? The Matsumato Sushi Bar is getting rave reviews
from Washington and Lee students and professors. The Phi has yet to '
hear whether Cafe Mohring is really the Starbucks of Lexington.

King decided to start the store in Lexing-
ton after his brother had opened a Foods of
All Nations in Virginia Beach. But the" Virginia
Beach store suffered after Sept. 11 because
many military personnel stationed there were
called for duty shortly thereafter. Sales
dropped from $20,000 to $3,000 a day, and the

- Burish vowes to pursue ambitious goals with American

Association and the American Diabetes Associa-
tion. All three organizations have united to provide
the same message about protecting oneself from
disease.

Additional research is also important to re-
ducing cancer rates. Through research, doctors will
be able to provide better..scre.enin,g and diagnosis
for cancers that are currently not fully understood.

The ACS funds $120 million of cancer related
research a year. This money comes from the $800
million dollars the ACS raises every year. Around
90% of the money raised by the ACS is the result of
voluntary contributions averaging $40. As a result,
the ACS is not beholden to any one group and can
direct its money wherever it deems necessary.

Burish acknowledges the difficulties which
will be involved in balancing his duties as Presi-
dent of W&L and as chairman of the ACS. Burish

wo year delay ~

store had to close after only six weeks.
The financial losses incurred
from the closing of the Virginia Beach
store would not allow the company to
open the Lexington store. King then
broke away from Foods of All Nations,
and took matters into his own hands.

King has been trying to open the
Lexington store since November 2002,
but was delayed by the death of his
brother, who had started the
Virginia Beach operation, in
May 2003.

King doesn’t believe that
competition from his store will
endanger any other Lexington
businesses. But local coffee
shops and groceries like
Healthy Foods and Lexington
Coffee seem to target a similar
consumer profile.

While Lexington Coffee
and The Daily Grind declined
to comment, Jo Parent, man-
ager of Healthy Foods, said
that she hasn’t talked to any-
one from Foods International
so she doesn’t know if they’ll
be carrying similar products.

“Any time an enterprise
moves in everyone is af-
fected,” said Parent, but
adde_d that she isn’t sure ex-
actly how Foods International
will affect her business.

“I really believe in net-
working,” said King, who said
he will work with already es-
tablished local business, hoping that his
store's presence will increase the amount of
business for everyone.

And King is a firm believer of the ‘gas
station’ theory: “The more gas stations you
have on a corner, the more gas is sold,” he
said.

Cancer Society

maintains that his priority is W&L. Working the
ACS has helped Burish to better connect with stu-
dents and alumni whose lives have been touched
by cancer. Burish himself lost his father to cancer
several years ago.

Burish also names W&L’s tradition of ser-
vice as a factor in his continued volunteerism. “How
could I not_have ‘service as a value, I’m not doing
anything that the majority of students, staff and
alunmi don’t do” said Burish. While Burish ac-
knowledges that his current position as chairman
of the ACS might be more visible than other volun-
teer efforts, it is certainly not any more important.

The ACS is optimistic about Burish’s terms I

as its chairman. John Seffrin, the CEO of the ACS
said, Burish “has provided steadfast and visionary
leadership to the society and has never wavered in
his abiding commitment to our lifesaving mission.”

Cold weather, maybe snow, expected soon

BY ETHANJAMESON

STAFF WRITER
Students and local residents looking for-
ward to snow can expect the area’s first snowfall
any day now. A late, colder—than—before winter is
anticipated.
According to regional weather
forecasters, temperatures I
may have plummeted and
rain has started to fall, \ ’/
but here in southwest
Virginia, folks can expect /“'
to wait until December
for the first predicted snowfall.
“Perhaps after Decem-
ber 4-7 time range, we’H ﬁnally
see some significantly colder air, and
a pattern shift occur,” said Wally
Mayo, a meteorologist with
weatherroanoke.com. “As for the gen-
eral season outlook, we are in a weak
El Nino status. Personally, I feel such
times are fairly good for signiﬁcant
snows.” _

A Mayo also feels that we have a
65% chance of greater than nor-
mal snowfall this season. 4

According to Scott
Lancey, a forecaster with Mid- _
Atlantic Weather in Lexington, Va., “It’s un-
usual for the Lexington area to receive accu-
mulating snow right after Thanksgiving but we

usually have had some snow by December 10th.”
Lancey added that the type of weather expe-
rienced in November usually is not an indicator of
what the overall winter will be.
Forecasters also predict a much colder win-
ter than in previous years.
David Weit, chief meteo-

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 

rologist of the National Oce-

anic and Atmospheric

A Administration’s
_ Blacksburg, Va., ofﬁce,

said that, “The NWS —

National Weather Service

- is calling for a colder win-
ter than normal with precipitation
at or slightly below normal.”
Richard Dunn,'webmaster for
the Central Virginia Weather
Station’s website, agrees with
the winter forecast, adding that
“the general consensus that I
have seen is that this winter
will be colder than normal in
this part of the country.” ,
Dunn was quick to
add that, “However, colder
A V _ weather doesn’t always
translate into more snow.
 The long range forecasts
that I have seen have been
split between normal to above normal
precipitation.”

Q83

  

Several campus organizations host events marking 16th annual World AIDS Day on December 1st

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

December 1, 2004, marked the 16"‘ anniver-
sary of World AIDS Day. Various campus groups
marked the day the raising both money and aware-
ness. ‘

GayLaw handed out red ribbons and‘ raised
$450 from law student and faculty for the AIDS/
HIV Services Group of Charlottesville. GayLaw
President, Tamara Graham, believes the event was
a great success. She noted that they enjoy working

with a local group, such as the one in Charlottesville,
because “we can emphasize that AIDS has touched
all of our lives and isn’t some mystery out there in
the darkness.”

On ,the undergraduate campus the Gay-
Straight Alliance also hosted several events. They
teamed with LIFE to sponsor free HIV testing in the
Student Health Center. In a short two hour span,

nine people were tested. The GSA and LIFE also

brought a piece of the AIDS quilt to be hung in the
John W. Elrod Commons. The twelve by twelve
section, composed of panels representing people

who have died of AIDS, is just one of 5,683 pieces
of the AIDS quilt.

The GSA also sponsored a showing of “Phila-
delphia,” a movie starring Tom Hanks as a lawyer
dying of AIDS.

Both GayLaw and the GSA thought it was
increasingly important to celebrate World AIDS Day
given the growing problem of AIDS across the
world. Graham states, “ AIDS affects our commu-
nity so powerfully, and by our community, I mean
our large community—not just the gays.” She cites
the Women’s Law Student Organization and the

Black Law Student Association’s support of the
World AIDS Day as showing that all people can
find a connection to AIDS that inspires them to
help. GSA Treasurer Theresa Dougherty notes that
“by increasing awareness and encouraging people
to get tested, we can help prevent the spread of
such a devastating disease.”

UN health officials believe there are 39.4 mil-
lion people world wide infected with the HIV virus
and that number grows daily. Students can receive
confidential AIDS testing in the Student Health
Center.

 

 

I

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

rat_‘-:R:N<_;-rtrr»~:l’nr. ‘
ST FF EDITORIAL
Phi calls for safety

Washington and Lee University is no
longer a safe place to drink. It’s
counterintuitive, but pumping up security
patrols and using wristbands to identify le-
gal drinkers creates a dangerous social at-
mosphere. _

We are not making an argument for un-
derage drinking. The law is the law and we
can’t argue with it. _

Underage drinking in a college town, es-
pecially one as small as Lexington, is to be
expected. Students are leaving home for
the ﬁrst time and testing and enjoying their
freedom away from their parents. Drinking
is simply the most exciting, and dangerous,
privilege of adulthood.

Washington and Lee students are a
smarter-than-average bunch, but that doesn’t
mean we all understand our limits with alco-
hol when we enter as freshmen. Part of
growing up and creating your identity is
making mistakes. The old Washington and
Lee understood that, and did its best to en-
sure a safe environment for its students.

The Washington and Lee of today, in
the same spirit, is trying to create a safe en-
vironment but may be making the situation
worse. Enforcing the alcohol policy has al-
ready moved more parties into the country.
Even with the best Traveller service money
can buy, students will probably be tempted
to drink and drive at ever-increasing rates.

When students were allowed to drink
in fraternities, the dorms and most homes
were within walking distance. Security pa-
trolled through fraternity houses frequently
enough to intervene in a bad situation or drive
someone to the hospital.

In addition to the dangers presented by
country parties, there is another, purely so-
cial, aspect. In the Washington and Lee of
old, all students were welcome at all parties
because parties were held in fraternities.
Country parties are held in private homes,
which will segregate the student body fur-
ther into exclusive groups. Lost is the sense
of community created through open parties.

Inevitably, Washington ‘and Lee students
will  Enforcing the alcohol policy will
only make drinking more dangerous.

 

“Notre Dame is willing to do anything to be
NCAAfootbal1’s powerhouse again, including
selling out their academic standards .”

~ESPN SportswriterAlan Grant

  
 

r   RIM}-TIEM.

   

OPINIONSEDIIOR

mm m

INI

   

PAGE 3

Alcohol, the White Book, and sober driving, on my

This week I had so much on my mind that
I’m going to be talking about three issues- first,
I address some reactions to my sober driving
piece. Then, I move on to the dismal fate of the
“Withdrew Vs. Dismissed” White Book amend-
ment that I and a hundred other students pro-
posed. And finally, I talk about alcohol, for ob-
vious reasons.

Sober Driving

Thanks to everyone who wrote in with com-
ments and thoughts on my last article in the Phi,
which detailed my recent sober driving misad-
venture. I got two major ideas

And then, of course, there is the 2 ton el-
ephant in the room, the fact that the EC has been
unable or unwilling as of yet to eriact any real
Honor System reform. A few weeks ago they
voted down what I thought was a very well-
reasoned out and viable amendment from Ms.
Kelly Jo Larsen, a senior, who argued that the
partial definition of an Honor Violation as “ly-
ing, cheating, or stealing” amounted to codifi-
cation, and that students are beginning only to
classify actions as ‘HVs by the standard of
whether they are “lying, cheating, or stealing.”
She proposed that the EC remove the “lying,
cheating, and stealing” phrase, arguing that stu-

dents can define for themselves

from a110fY0’~1- The first W35 a what is honorable’ or not, and
fhat Y0“ {Cally half? the I-ex‘ MODERATES MUSINGS that they were already of the
lngton P011“ Department Pm CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6 opinion that lying, cheating, and

not sure that they specifically
target W&L students for minor
infractions, as some of you assert, and I think
that on the whole they do a very good job. I just
wish they’d be a little more understanding of
the problems/motives of sober drivers on cam-
pus. The second sentiment I got from your let-
ters was regret that I, personally, was quitting
my sober driving gig, and exhortations to keep
fighting the good fight for the University and
for my fellow students. I cannot thank you
enough for your sympathy, but I really can’t re-
sume sober driving, at least not in the immediate
future. I really can’t afford even risking another
ticket, in a simple financial sense. But I have
much appreciation for you anyway.

Amendment to the White Book

I wrote an article a few weeks ago about the
inherent unfairness of the current White Book
policy of labeling a dismissed student’s tran-
script either “withdrew” or “dismissed” based
on whether the student left after a closed or open
hearing, respectively. Many of you signed the
petition that brought this matter, with the help
of EC members Thomas Worthy and Wheeler
Sparks, to the EC’s attention.

I was both encouraged AND disappointed
with the EC’s response. There were actually two
proposals, one that would have changed the
wording to ALWAYS be “withdrew,” and one
that would have changed the wording to always
be “dismissed.” The “withdrew” proposal was
voted down unanimously. The “dismissed” pro-

posal wasvoted, down 11-0, with’ two absten-O

tions, Worthy and Sparks.

I was encouraged by the fact that the EC
did not dismiss me outright, as Ifeared they might.
There was a highly productive discussion, and
in particular Craig Hensel, Marie Trimble, and
Justin Arnold brought up some points that I had
not considered. A lot of light was shed on the
real pros and cons of switching the White Book
over as a result. The EC has shown me that it is
willing, at least, to give real thought to student
opinion as to Honor System change.

‘I was disappointed, naturally, that the EC voted
both measures down. Some members of the EC
did not speak, ask questions, or‘ really partici-
pate at all in the discussion, and at the end of
the dialogue, they simply voted “nay” without
comment. I had hoped for more than that.

stealing were dishonorable. The

EC voted this down 8-4 (Wor-
thy, Nunez, Duddy, and Stafford were the four
dissenters), but I never really heard a persua-
sive argument against the amendment. Some
felt that it was valid, but not important enough
to act on (isn’t ANYTHING related to the Honor
System important enough to act on?) Others
felt that the “no codification” rule and the “ly-
ing, cheating, stealing” standard balance each
other out rather than contradict each other,
something I find highly questionable.

The point is that the EC is beginning to ap-
pear generally opposed to change when it comes
to the Honor System. This is crucial in a period
when our concept of Honor must not become
stagnant, lest it begin to resemble a set of rules
or a simple code of conduct, as has happened at
other schools with “Honor Systems.” The
White Book is not perfect, nor is it the unques-
tionable, final word when it comes to the Honor
System. It can and should be changed in a sig-
nificant way. The change I ask of the EC is not
the destruction of the Honor System or of the
Single Sanction. The request is only for fair-
ness, and for a renewal of vitality, for fear that
Honor at our University will otherwise drift
slowly away into obsolescence.

Alcohol

I have to tread carefully here. I’m not ex-
actly a big fan of alcohol, in fact the only time
l’ve ever had it was when I was three. In those
days I would steal my mom’s wine coolers with
the studied precision and efficiency of the
stealthiest of ninjas. Thus, feel free to call me
on it if you think I say too much with too little
experience.

Both of the bitter, bickering sides in this
debate would do well to be honest with them-
selves. The administration should not kid itself
by giving us the line that they are simply en-
forcing existing policy that was already on the
books. Those policies have gone a long time
without really being enforced, and the adminis-
tration should know that an alteration of the kind
they are arguing for WILL have a dramatic ef-
fect. I know that part of the University’s rea-
soning, stated or not, is to escape from legal
liability, should something tragic occur, and this
is valid. If a freshman dies this weekend at a
fraternity from alcohol poisoning, the school can

and will be successfully sued for millions. But
the student argument that enforcement will push
drinking off-campus where it cannot be con-
trolled is also valid. The administration and the
Board of Trustees can’t pretend that off-cam-
pus drinking does not exist, and it should know
and care about the fact that enforcement of the
kind they are advocating will actually increase
the risk of things like alcohol poisoning and
DUI. They cannot simply wash their hands of
the likely sicknesses and (perhaps) deaths that
will occur as a result, increased Traveller fund-
ing or no. The University will have to sell a
better solution than that.

{On the other hand, the alcohol culture of

_W&L should not kid itself either. As I said be-

fore, the administration can’t simply wash their
hands of the likely danger of pushing drinking
off-campus. But make no mistake- if drinking
does go off-campus as a result of enforcement,
and people start dying, the blame will rest
squarely on our shoulders as students, and not
on the administration’s. It is a piece of propa-
ganda wielded fearlessly by many that “heavy
drinking will always happen ‘on this campus no
matter what,” and while it may technically be
true, it is not something to be quite that proud
of. Some students remind me of the little kid

_ who, being informed that he could not swim in

the family’s swimming pool by himself because
his mom is afraid he’ll drown, tells his mom that
he’ll go play by the train tracks instead, where
mom can’t supervise him.‘ It’s a threat of
GREATER harm to oneself designed to draw a
response out of fear (or concern for us) from
the parent (or administration, in this case), and
I find it childish and immature to a tiresome de-
gree. We are not children. Freshmen to seniors,
we have all demonstrated not only intellectual
maturity, but superiority, in gaining admittance
here. Thus, of course, the 21 year—old drinking
age IS foolish and ought to be reduced to 18,
and I think to some degree the students have a
point that they ought to enjoy certain freedoms
while here. But on the same hand, since we are
mature, rational adults here, the administration
has a point that we shouldn’t throw about the
threat of drinking off campus, thus sending in-
numerable student drunk-drivers into those
bloody films that they show in driver’s ed
classes. That’s intellectually AND morally bank-
rupt.

The issue is not as simple as either side would
like to make it. If a solution that really works is to be
found, it will take a lot of discussion and probably
end up being a complicated and much-argued—over
compromise. What will result in disaster is if the
administration tries to railroad over the students, or
if the students pack their bags and leave in a huff for
Zollrnan’s (or wherever). The administration should
be willing to REALLY listen to the students and to
implement a plan that is at least half-satisfactory to
them. The students should try to understand where
the University is coming from, and not try to make a
claim to absolute freedom of action.

The sort of hostility and unwillingness to com-
promise that I’m seeing is not worth student deaths.
As I said before, all the people at this University are
rational, mature adults- students, faculty, staff, ad-
ministrators, and trustees. I am conﬁdent that we
have the brains to make a plan that works.

Editor in chief Erin Elizabeth Julius
Managing Editor Chris Lauderman

 

News Editor Sarah Murray
Asst. News Editor Katherine Shell
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Emily Edwards
Sports Editor Marshall Rule
Photography Editor Corbin Blackford
Layout Editor Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Asst. Layout Editor Emily Hulen

Business Manager David Seifert

Circulation Director Rob Rain

Asst. Circ. Directors Legget Kitchin
Elizabeth Robinson‘
Yinyan Li
Rohan Poojara

Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb
Copy Editor Amanda Tholke

The R1'ng—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-rum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate ‘$40

 

Ups and Downs -

sweet, sweet taste of infallibility.

put their kids through, uh....co1lege.

SVU- E
University and I'm a GUY.

_ ﬂ Before Colin Powell even resigned, of Condi Rice-
“Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the next Secretary of State.” Ah, the ~

Beer- 3 I guess brewers will just have to ﬁnd some OTHER college to

I feel creeped out by the ogling dude from Southern Virginia

Ups and Downs

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson gives you his take on what rose, what fell,
and what stayed about the same this week at W&L and the world.

Plants in the Commons- <I:{> Good lord. I thought they had gotten rid
of the infernal Vietnam of plants that used to inhabit this building, but
apparently the holidays are all about the wreaths’.

VMI- ﬂ Congrats to our Lexmates for taking down Virginia Tech the other
night, both on the court and in a certain Phi editrix’s heart. Way to go,
Keydets. Ok, THAT’S the last sports one.

 

Notre Dame- Let me play the bleeding heart liberal for a moment.
Davie— gets his full term as a coach despite being horrible. Faust- gets his
full term as a coach despite being horrible. VVrllingham— gets ﬁred early
despite doing better than either Faust or Davie because.....well, let’s be
honest, it’s because he’s black.

BCS-  In more college sports, Auburn gets the short end of the stick.

NFL- ﬂ San Diego....super Chargers, San Diego....CHAAAARGERS!
Remember kids, the Chargers are the only team powered by DISCO.

NBA- 3 Both fans and players are to blame. Solution- don’t throw crap
at players. Also, don’t go INTO the stands to beat up fans.

Holidays- ﬂ Apparently the season starts at Halloween now.

MLB- ﬂ Bonds “didn’t know” that the steroids, which he obtained from
the steroid man at the steroid shop, were steroids. Sure, Barry. Sure. Last
sports one, I swear.....or not. What can I say, it’s an interesting sports month.

Supreme Court They bob and weave, passing the law ball around
looking for an opening until bam, they rush in and dunk it. This court is
picking its battles well, and isn’t being activist OR stodgy.

John McCain- ﬁ Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the next Republican
nominee for President of the United States. And if I’m wrong, hey, I’ll be far
away from W&L by the time it’s proven.

Pixar- 3 Every time I think they can’t POSSIBLY make a movie better than
THAT one, they do.

Caleys’ Fall 'I‘errn Professors- ﬂ Anagram of “Rush, Velasquez, DeLaney,
and Machado” is “Ouch! He’ll squeeze and rave a mad day!” The squeez-
ing I get from all of them, the raving from one in particular.

Zen- C-:5 Zen students used to work for years at menial tasks, driving
their minds and bodies to the brink, until, in the midst of this exhaustion,
some offhand remark by their teacher would enlighten them. Anyone else
feel like that right now? I mean, I’m all about the enlightenment, it’s just the
menial labor that I don’t care for.

Stop-in- ﬂ Traveller adds a stop there, offering the opportunity to say
“I’ll stop at the stop in stop.” Or, alternately, if you were going to try to
PREVENT someone from stopping at the stop-in stop via telegram, you’d
say “Stopl Don’t stop at the stop-in stop stop.”

Redundancy-T] Isn’t it funny?

Redundarrcyﬁ Isn’t it funny?

 

    

PAGE 4

  

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004



Carissa’s leftover
thanks to give— why
we should be happy
at W&L and at home

Before Thanksgiving break, I couldjust
imagine being snuggled into my own bed,
watching the snow fall, listening to the fire
popping and cracking in the fireplace, hav-
ing a wonderful meal with friends and fam-
ily, and putting up the Christmas tree.

I am usually a level-headed person, but
the sentimentality of the holiday season al-
ways gets to me. My favorite day of the
entire year is Christmas, and in my excite-
ment and anticipation, I don’t really give
Thanksgiving its due. This year, things
changed. I have so much to be thankful for
that I really wanted to appreciate Thanks-
giving as more than a step-
ping stone on the way to
Christmas.

iWhile the bad always
comes with the good, I think
we have a lot to be thankful for here at
Washington and Lee. For many people I
know, college was a struggle. They only had
one choice of where to go and sometimes
did not even have enough money to make it
all the way through.

When I think about the struggles of
adults who go back to school, students who
have to work their way through college, and
people who never got the opportunity to go
at all, the first thing that I am thankful for is
that I am here. '

Everyone knows the party scene here,
but our parents would be quick to remind
us that they sent us
here for academics.
While some people
might consider the
academics as being
just a small part of the
education they are re-
ceiving, I don’t think
that we could ask for any better. I hate tak-
ing general education requirements and
think that physical education classes
should be electives, or at least worth credit,
but our classes are made bearable by our
wonderful professors.

Not all teaching styles mesh with learn-
ing styles, but there have been several
classes that I passed only because of de-
voted professors who have spent endless
hours babying me through every step of the
material. There have been professors who
stayed late and came in early just to fit into
my busy schedule.

Even though I sometimes leave office
hours frustrated, I always leave knowing
more than I did when I walked in. I feel like
I really know a lot of my professors. I’m in-
terested in their families and who they are.
When your professor invites you to have
dinner at his house with his family, you

Letters to the Editor 

IN THE I1ioNs
CARISSA SHIPLEY ‘07

So as you are in the midst of the holiday
season, remember that both Christmas
and Thanksgiving remind us to count

our blessings. A

know you are very lucky to be at such a
special place.

Speakingsof great, accessible profes-
sors, each of us has at least one support-
ing us at every turn. They are our advi-
sors; pushing us to do better, recommend-
ing classes, and keeping us onitrack. We
are at a point in our life where we have a
lot of pressure to decide what we want to
be. No longer do we get to dream and fan-
tasize about what we want to be when we
grow up. Now we have to decide.

My mom always said that every de- A

cision can be undone, but
we’re tightly weaving the
tapestry of our lives, and
nothing can be completely
undone and erased from
our memory. Everything we do will either
set us forward or backward, but we can’t

stay the same, just as experiences won’t ’

let us return to one point in our past. Dur-
ing this important time, our advisors can
take our dreams and turn them into the re-
ality that we will live for the rest of our
lives. Even though a lot of people can plan
the course of their college careers, our ad-
visors are our safety nets and I am thank-
ful that there is always someone here,
watching out for me.

The last thing that I want to mention is
the environment in general. I’m thankful for
small classes, inti-
mate discussions,
the speaking tradi-
tion, and most of all,
the honor system.

The honor system
allows professors,
administrators, fac-
ulty, and students
to place faith and trust in one another-

the same qualities‘ thatrwe celebrate'dur- -'

ing the holiday season.

So as you are in the midst of the holi-
day season, remember that both Christmas
and Thanksgiving remind us to count our
blessings. I don’t know anyone who is more
likely to get distracted by family, friends,
presents, going to movies, hanging out
with high school buddies, and just being
sidetracked in general than me so I know
it’s a challenge to appreciate this season
for whatever it might mean to you.

But during a time of finals, projects, es-

says, and stress, just thinking about the I

wonderful things we have and saying thank
you or Merry Christmas to the people who
make it easier for you to deal with these
things all year long can put things into per-
spective and add to the joy of the holidays.

You gotta ﬁght for your right

PARTAY. Every fraternity, and W&L’s unique social scene, are threatened by the new enforcement policy.

Usually, I try to be original. When ev-
eryone else wrote about the election, I wrote
about my lab top. (By the way, I love my
new mac!) But this week, I must follow the
pack. So, if you are sick of reading about
the new drinking rules (which you shouldn’t
be, since you faithfully read my article first,
right?) I must warn you.
What follows is a full-out
bitch session. And I am
about to use my position in
the public eye to further my
own goals. But since you are a W and L stu-
dent or someone close to one, I bet we share
some of the same interests. I am willing to
venture that partying is something near and
dear to your heart, too. (I know that it is a
sin for us to have interests outside of the
classroom, but sorry, it can’t be helped.)

Apparently, I picked the wrong year to
transfer. The school I love... Wait, the
school I loved , is morphing into every other
small liberal arts college in the nation. No
more drinking in the fraternity houses? I
hate to be the grim reaper, but social life here
at Washington and Lee is dead folks. Dead.

No. I am not being over dramatic. It’s all
down hill from here folks. Don’t believe me?
Think that off-campus parties can keep the
social scene alive? I don’t want to burst your
bubble, but trust me on this: unless we do
something to stop the “fun police” our way

I of lifewiill'5come to'an'e:i1'tli’I‘tisis‘ad but true.

Dickinson, a long time ago, was once much
like Washington and Lee. But its good days
were over long before my arrival. As one of
my former classmates was quoted on
www.princetonreview.com: “We still hear
about ‘Drinkinson’ but we’re all wondering
‘ where the hell it went.” '

And where the hell did it go? (I’m not
sure if I’m allowed to swear in a school news-
paper. Well, *&"% that. I’m on a tangent.)
“Drinkinson” died the day the administra-
tion outlawed drinking in the Greek houses.
Some less educated students remain oblivi-
ous to what they are missing out on. One of

_ my ex—classmates even told the Princeton
Review that, “the students at Dickinson are
smart as hell and love to party like rock

  have fun. But, you and I
_ KmsnNEEARLY‘07 ’

FILE PHOTO

stars.” Haha. Yeah right. Only if “rock
stars” sit around in their rooms doing shots
of Stoli’s before they hit the streets. Cam-
pus security at Dickinson forced us to be
closet drinkers. I don’t want to be a closet
drinker. I have good Irish genes, and I’m
damn proud of them.

I don’t need alcohol to

both know that it has some
amazing and welcomed side
effects. Some people drink
so they feel more confident. Others drink
to forget their problems. I drink because
somewhere in between Natty Light num-
ber 2 and 3, I get the idea that I can dance.
I wasn’t blessed with rhythm. I can’t clap
a beat, and I am horrible at scansion- the
reason I’m not an English major. But after
a drink or two, when Eminem comes on
the radio, I decide that I am the next white
rapper to hit the scene. It doesn’t matter
how much I slur. The important thing is
that I know all the words- even if they
come out in the wrong order. Band par-
ties and dj parties just don’t hold the same
allure when everyone shows up stone-
cold sober. But maybe that’s just my opin-
ion.

So for the sake of Snackbar Jones and
the Pi Phi djs, I am making a proposition.
Drunk dial an alum. (OK. Maybe you
should be sober ‘for'that.)' Let the admin-
istration know how much we hate these
new policies. Do it peacefully, and do it
respectfully. But do it. Complaining to
each other won’t get anything done. And
maybe complaining to the board won’t ei-
ther. But there are a lot of people out there
who have fond memories of the good ol’
days. And they do have pull.

' We must band together. To para-
phrase Bill Pullman’s inspiring speech
from one of my favorite movies, Indepen-
dence Day, “We can’t be consumed by
our petty differences anymore. We will
be united in our common interests.. We
are fighting for our right to [drink]. 
We will not go quietly into the night! We
will not vanish without a fight!”

   

Cross Country runner criticizes sports coverage

Dear Editor,

I have seen my share
of laziness and disrespect
for the subject that is be-
ing reported on any given
day in the media, but as a
member of the
crosscountry team and out
of concern for any future
in journalism you may
have, I felt it was neces-
sary to point out the ex-
ceptionally egregious er-
rors in your article on

"cross country in this

week’s Phi.

As a matter of fact,
you waste no time in
showing that you have

made no effort whatsoever .

to investigate the progress
and success of the cross

country team when your

headline says “Johnson,
Erickson prepare to go to
nationals later in year in
Wisconsin”.

Later in the year as in
December? Maybe over
Winter Break, or on New
Years Eve? You were ob-

viously too lazy to even be
lazy enough to just assume
that they are running at
Nationals this Saturday.

At least you made the
effort to look in the media
guide to quote our Coach
saying we “absolutely” had
a chance at competing for
the ODAC title, but didn’t
take literally five more min-
utes to peruse it, saying
one sentence later that
Nathan Johnson “recently
recovered from an injured
first two years.”

Unless attending Will-
iam & Mary inflicted some
unknown mental or physi-
cal pain on Nathan, I’m
pretty sure he transferred
here and didn’t run his first
two seasons of
crosscountry, and that it
was in fact AJ that was in-
jured. W e l 1 ,
maybe you got bogged
down in the inextricable
complexity and confusion
of the 2004 W & L
crosscountry media guide,
and overlooked that

Nathan and AJ, although
they have the same last
name, are in fact two dif-
ferent people!

That’s only the first

paragraph of your article
though. You start your sec-
ond one with “Coach Kris
Hoey of the women’s team
had similar goals for her
women’s team.”
At least this is just repeti-
tive and stupid sounding,
and not a blatant lie, you
just sound like Brick from
Anchorman. The next sen-
tence, you say that the
girls, determined to have a
successful season, “put in
several miles of training
over the summer.” What
is several miles? Maybe 7,
8, 10 miles the whole sum-
mer? The cross
country race itself is sev-
eral miles! Actually, I
think you’re right, I think
everybody that runs cross
country just throws in a
hundred meter sprint ev-
eryday and calls it a day.

The next paragraph is
even worse. You call
Lindsay Erickson, Jessica

 

Buckingham, and Kelly
Zwart 4 sophomores.

The best part is you are
not even consistently
wrong. Three paragraphs
later you note that fresh-
man Lindsay Erickson
claimed a first place finish
at ODACs! However, your
fourth paragraph is fine.

Good job, you reported
successfully that both
teams went to
Harrisonburg and won the
ODAC title.- You even
note in other paragraphs
thatour coaches received
ODAC coach of the year
awards and that

Nathan Johnson won
several awards. I applaud
you! Soon though ,you lose
either focus or interest
again, fabricating that
ODAC Conference cham-
pions automatically get a
berth to the regional meet.

A minor mistake, one
that could have been
avoided by actually asking
any«cross country team
member, but the fact is,
anybody who wants to can
go to the regional meet.

Roanoke, Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, and EMU
were all at Regionals.
Well, other'than that,
you just had a few awk-
ward phrases here and
there that further show you
neither know nor care
about, but most likely both,
the sport of cross country.
I look forward to reading
future sport articles that
you actually take interest

' in, and comparing them to

the complete travesty of
an article you put out.

I’ll end by quoting Billy
Madison: At no point in
your rambling, incoherent
response were you even
close to anything that
could be considered a ra-
tional thought. Everyone in
this room is now dumber
for having listened to it. I
award you no points, and
may God have mercy on
your soul.

Your faithful Ring,Tun Phi
reader,

Alex Mahoney

East Asian Languages
notes difference from
East Asian Studies

The Ring—'IlJ1n Phi November
15 edition carried an article entitled
“Intemational Education Week;
Groupstostness intemationaledu—
cation,” by Chris Lauderman. In
thepenultimate paragraphthereis
a listing of the groups associated
with the two-week event, and
among themislisted“theDepait-
ment of East Asian Studies.”

This is incorrect. There is no
Department of East Asian Stud-
ies. We are the Department of
EastAsian Languages and Litera-
tures (EALL), and the cospon-
sors of this program. East Asian
Studiesisaprogram, notadepart-
ment, and they did not co-sponsor
the event There is frequent con-
fusion on campus between our
Department and the EAS Pro-
gram, and we would appreciate
your assistance in helping the
EALLDepa1tmenttobecomectly
recognized
-EALL Dept.

X

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

Male

No
67%

Yes
33%

 

8N5  

Phi Quick Poll ,

 

  “Do you think that sexual assault is a serious problem on this campus ? ”
105 students polled, 54 male, 51 female. Poll has 97% conﬁdence in a +/— 5% margin of error

Yes
84%

Female

No
16%

College students like to drink even though it’s
unlawful for about half of us to do it. Because no
amount of complaining, ranting or raving is going to
reverse the University’s obligation to operate within
the bounds of Virginia law, we should focus our atten-
tion elsewhere.

Any reasonable person also knows that college
students are going to seek a buzz no matter how diffi-
cult it is to come by. If the University does not allow
underage students to drink on campus, we’ll ﬂock off.
The responsibility to party safely
that we once shared with the Uni-
versity is now entirely our own.

Instead of demanding that the
University has to take care of us, why
not do it ourselves? Why not show that we are re-
sponsible adults?

We all know that partying off-campus certainly
has the potential to create dangerous situations. Does
it have to, though? Instead, off-campus parties could
provide the opportunity for us to show how respon-
sible we are. We can create a safety net of our own.
We don’t need the University looking over our shoul-
ders.

Drinking away from the University does not nec-
essarily have to be inherently more dangerous than
imbibing in a fraternity house.

The responsibility for ensuring a safe—drinking en-
vironment has now been placed squarely on our shoul-
ders. ,

Instead of forcing Security to monitor us, it’s time
for us to begin taking on that role for each other. In-
stead of fighting it, let’s rise to the occasion. Let’s
show the University community what we’re made of.

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

!EB BROOKS ‘O5 pus party that you would for an on-

Students must take responsibility
for current underage drinking problems

There are a number of practical things that can be
done to ensure safe off-campus parties. If you see a
classmate in need of help, get it.

If someone needs a ride and you are sober, offer it.
Plan for yourself and don’t drink more than you can
handle.

Stay with friends and watch out for each other.

If you are throwing a party, make sure you have
plenty of water and food for your guests who might
need it.

Make sure you have sober drivers
available to people who may need a ride.
Follow the same rules for an off-cam-

campus one.

Because we live in a community of
trust, we ought to take advantage of that fact. Let’s do
it by showing trust in one another.

On a related note, as student coordinator of the
Traveller Program, I can provide you with contact infor-
mation for the company that operates the Traveller Ex-
press buses.

They will be happy to work with you to offer trans-
portation to your guests above and beyond Traveller’s
capabilities. Just shoot me an email (brool_<_s_j @wlu.edu)
before your next off-campus event and I’H send you a
phone number. You don’t even have to invite me!

In short, we are intelligent, capable young adults.
We ought to be willing to take on this responsibility.
Now is the time for us to begin watching out for each
other and to ensure that when we drink, we do it in a
responsible, adult way. When we graduate into the
dreaded Real World, 'we’ll have to do all of this on our
own. Why not show them that we can handle it now?

In American politics there are certain topics that
often polarize people, even those who may share simi-
lar political ideology. One of these topics is abor-
tion. I identify myself as “Pro-Choice” and I hope
that after reading this, my reasoning behind believ-
ing that way will be clear.

In talking about abortion with others I
have often found that they believe Pro-
Choice to mean Pro-Abortion. I person-
ally disagree with the word Pro-Abortion
because of what the name implies. It seems
to suggest being “for” abortion in the sense that I go
around trying to convince women to have abortions.
This is certainly not the case.

In my opinion abortions should only be performed
under three circumstances:
the health of the mother is at
risk, the child would be born
disfigured or with any un-
natural deformity, or the preg-
nancy was a result of rape or
incest. With those views on
abortion I can not call myself
“Pro-Life” because I do not
believe in protesting in front
of abortion clinics and threatening those who have
abortions with eternal damnation.

Of course not all people who identify as being
Pro-Life engage in those practices it seems to be com-
moh in Pro-Life lobbyists. And while I personally
know women that have had abortions that did not fit
into any of the previously mentioned circumstances,
I still believe that a woman has the right to determine
whether she carries her child to full term or not as it is

MARCAS BANKS ‘07

...by making it illegal women
who see abortion as the only
option will resort to
unhealthy, harmful, and
potentially fatal methods

Term “pro—choice” clarified,
education about sex encouraged

her body.

I am also very strongly opposed to making
abortion illegal. While I think that all abortions
should take place within the first trimester, making
all abortions illegal is not practical. Just because
something is made illegal
does not mean that people will
not indulge in that activity.
This also applies to abortion,
by making it illegal women
who see abortion as the only
option will resort to unhealthy, harmful, and po-
tentially fatal methods.

Essentially by making abortion illegal a black
market for abortion will be created. And with the

resent verdict of Scott Peterson, who was
found guilty of second degree murder for
his unborn son, I can foresee a possibility
of Roe vs. Wade being overturned because
people view the crime Peterson committed
as being so heinous.
If people identify themselves as
V Pro-Life and want to help reduce the num-
ber of abortions the best way is to empha-
size abstinence as well as the use of con-
traceptives and prophylactics among teens.

By reinforcing, these methods both at home and
at school, which is where teens spend most of their
day, will help increase the amount of awareness
they have in regards to sexual activity and its pos-
sible results and will help decrease the number of
abortions performed each year. And although I
would prefer that women not have abortions, some
of them will, and it is a choice for them to make.

REFLECTIONS

   

  

Good Luck with exams!

Have a safe and happy holiday season and a very
Happy New Year.

The Ring-tium Phi’s next edition will come out
January 10, 2005.

UniVersity’s new
alcohol enforcement

 

makes assault likely

FOREBODING. Country places like this might cause the University’s ladies to party in fear.

As a woman, I object to the en-
forcement of the alcohol policy.
Sexual assault is the most egregious
problem on our
campus, and that
crisis is being dis-
regarded in the
crackdown on
drinking. And no, enforcing the al-
cohol policy will not alleviate the
sexual assault problem on this cam-
pus. If anything, women I talk to
believe that the enforcement will cre-
ate a more dangerous atmosphere for
women. Enforcing the alcohol policy
changes the face of the W&L party
scene for the worst.

We have already seen the effects
of enforcement: drinking was pushed
off campus over the weekend, people
pre-partied hard before going out
and snuck alcohol into parties.
People have shared many criticisms
of the alcohol policy enforcement,
ranging from the mundane to the
grim.

Some complained that the cock-
tail parties held in off-campus houses

just aren’t as genteel as one would
expect a Washington and Lee func-
tion to be. When I entered this
school as a freshman, the mission of
Washington and Lee seemed to be
creating ladies and gentlemen ca-

_ pable of thinking, working and social-

izing in the real world. My parents
remember a speech in Lee Chapel in
which administrators emphasized re-
sponsible drinking. That attitude is no
more.

Others complained that they got
drunker than they meant to, because
they shot liquor in secret rather than
drinking moderately in public. Still other
women have mentioned that they fear
a rise in the use of date-rape drugs.
This is a sound fear. In the past, frater-
nity presidents have held the liability
for what occurs in the house and thus,
did their best to ensure safety. No one
will hold such liability at a country
party. ’

Additionally, instead of the cans

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

ERIN IULIUS ‘06

 

handed across the bar in a frat base-
ment, people predict the rise of kegs
and grain in the country. This means
an increase in the use of
open containers, which
my mother has been cau-
tioning me against since
high school. Who knows
when something could be slipped into
a frat cup full of beer? Kegs and grain
are also dangerous because one does
not necessarily know what goes into
them. Drugs could be dropped in, or
there could be confusion over the
strength of the alcohol—is it vodka? Is it
everclear? The difference is huge.
Off-campus debauchery is not re-
sponsible, but it is the logical result of
the new enforcement. I do not like coun-
try parties; in my time at Washington
and Lee, I have been to about three.
Fraternity houses have always felt like
a much safer environment to me. Maybe
it’s the security guards one occasion-
ally sees in any frat basement. Maybe
it’s the massive number of people in a
given party; safety in numbers. Maybe
it’s just the comfort of knowing that I
can walk myself home at any given mo-
ment. Would a country party have any
of these advantages? No.
For the past two—and—a-half years, I
have always had choices about where
I wanted to socialize on the weekends
and frat basements have always won
out over private parties in country
homes. Enforcing the alcohol policy
changes the face of the W&L party
scene for the worst, and frankly, it
scares me.

I’m envisioning young women
trapped in country homes. Off-cam-
pus homes are a more intimate envi-
ronment, so it is much more likely that
a man will feel entitled, and a woman
will feel obligated. Traveller only runs
until two, it’s not unrealistic to believe
that people will be unable to get rides
home. Most fraternity men are up-
standing people, but sexual assault
occurs on this campus now and coun-
try parties provide even more oppor-
tunity for assault. ‘

  

    
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
  

p ato murlegr of t/atamzdaxom

  

    
 

PAGE 6

 . MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004 "

Wednesday '

    
    
   
  
  
    
 

Sunday   4*

    
    

       

   
 
  
  
  
  
  
        

 
    
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
   

    
   
       
      

   

  
  

    
   

       

  

          

   

 

 

Men’s Basketball vs. Women’s Basketball vs.
Guilford —— 7:00 VWC — 2:00 ’
Men’s Basketball vs.
Piedmont -- 8:00

‘I

r

I

 9 .  v  ._’T.‘t:'of the-i.thté (la Bra, 1 ; ,
&L met}; sper_t;h1“g- a iimitcd ' Massiaali hrvitationaloa Saturday
W 3 finished‘ second of rear
“r
O Is '\‘  
 rr~~lit
\......o""‘”"A"~_-.-~*“"~e .. .. .. . . I  ﬂ ’
AA Q  Horw Du I Tcmpt Thee?  ',\‘‘'= ‘I9 »
f  is. r:'- ..;r be Elf“,  ‘ ' '
      
ms «nu mow     °'°';,“',,:“, ‘;'f,1i:';‘,..5“°P *
anda lwiaélotlldtlvef - ,£::r¢~lr_v  Ribbtias Wmtren ., min“ I’
' . _ ads:-sf mums ‘  3
. (:heerseaer tame ..-~- Zihurwfs §; RIPNMVA 24472
Fgﬁna ' j * §nxn9ric}*Inisi:~1£(f':1sarr:vnnx * .: 540.343.522o.1.377.N1T.yARN up
Hanky Panky _  Knitting cottage nestled alongthc creek ’
Cosabeua    which carries a fabulous selection of basic
. Le M‘:/Stet’?  f . -- h . ,.  and novelty yams, kits, needles and
Ananne at C  23$‘ accessories. Customer service from stanto
Honeydew ‘ _ ' ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and _
Internet accessibility made easy.
* CaIforworltsl1op&dassinfonnaﬂon.
21 W. Nelson St. .
463*?”  *
M0" ’ F“ “P5730 A‘ W farm that ofers "U-PICK” opporrurrmer for fresh
Sat  .    Mean-1 fniitwhen in season.
Conam BLACKFORD / RING-TUMPHI   _mes_ sat mtoolszw wedumﬂ 8:“) V
JUMP THAT HURDLE. Indoor track, a not so well known sport at \W&.L, has started. Go support the indoor track “semper ubi sub ubi” 3 Sun $3‘ 00$ Saint 95 ’ I
team as they jump hurdles and perform other feats indoors. . . - .  
The next Phi will come out January #1 Sp rmg Break V3-C3-Hons! Happy 20th .,
10’ 2005 Be ca]-efu[ Cancun, Jamaica, Aca;1>glc/:oéBathIar_nas,lFlorida 8r Costa Bnthday
- ica. °o es rtces.
C°m'"9 Emily Edwards
Spring Break 2005 back on Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals! _ ,
Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour Operatorto 1 Lo e
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now January 2' Group Discounts. Campus Reps Wanted! CAL Egl ’ CIA
hiring on—campus reps. Call for group discounts. . ’ ’ ’
Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or 1 800 234 7007 3779 SM”: PMR
www.ststrave|.com. ~ endlesssummertours.com "
,    3;   4
‘  = l  iéé an    r . A
:   c 4 Scans Psrrﬁrlcr purehaseexperlenee pg Mpg rtrr  1’mwCﬂ9WR&mT°Y C-W3
V ,   u ztzearelleltargglertlahassle. p   Hwyr-. ; om: ﬁummwmpmmwu
V  .*:‘-saris stasis set: eitriisé. '?::aa.:- as eczeséz-:;;22  nail. Sémsiar Séraigéﬁarraarzé i'°r’?3¥‘lE.:;3?‘i§§f°§§. . -  ' W '~ 4-    ’ Orjain mﬁrwefwrh’-L 3’0UC"N5“73"ﬁ"" "
, I ~Friz§ay Nigfit%fnodBuffetv4i83CtabALegs5?l§-18PM
 _ .. Friié  3% ‘ '' Saturday Night $99“ 3  5W~’*3P”
  V p _ t §g’3r;g 35; g§§gz;g; ~Smday Baked Chsdcan & 383 Ribﬁ 31  - ,.
 ‘ , $ . - -_ —-sreexrae:eer7neysaweesrsasa--:1srn
; g. - 2 4  ~Dwyl~l0tcountry%*1_»'£ﬁa!a~1nW»!
‘ M ’ ..  . . s .; ~DailySouP. 3aiad.&Ft1&Bar11ﬁeﬂ~1ﬂP_M
Heme Cooked Mada &' Soutlmm Hospitality!
A 0rdcrB:c:d:fmt24HmusaDay,Scvcn¢laysaweck!
' : Starslarq   mm at _
i-éueatt rims; Cit states with six. speakers, isetuding rat: egg .5  gm 195,135 mam uxgwy, L2:x§xQ':'o{§',v,q.
' trreeters and Saar Saand_?raessir2s§%4F'3-{agents anti Xi;-1 540.453.3473 . ' .
. psézteirie 'sfr.ea:.1';=' .9 Air fX}¥§{.‘i§§i€3¥%>%?’ t Eliinizs at live: rrhssl carer V
‘ aéssigas 3 rnzr-as brakes 5 Peers: txrieéasrs, seer inns, and . am 5”‘ 5*‘ 9"” °°“°“‘°" °’
' estséée tiiirmrs ;‘ 5-year, éﬁtiiiti-rsiés Feesrrraizrwssranty‘ W” rm‘ 0"‘ “,3” 1”“
' »  1- .- . : ~ 2  V 1. at .   .. - *4 - *  ' Ygv  E ‘  ’ ' Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity PartY
- innate ysur nearest Satan liealer at Scinn.:em or call 1‘8‘éé”~?B”:sc|N3 C,,,,Se,
  .    . . _. .. . . .. ., ,_ _  V. X   5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties!
' Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica “
From $459
Panama City & Daytona $159
www.Spring BreakTrave| .com ,
1-800-678-6386

 

ii;-'.n:.ul‘*;r

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

 

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Washington and Lee held
an eight—point second half lead
but could not hold on, as the
Generals dropped a 63-58 deci-
sion at Randolph-Macon in
ODAC men’s basketball action
on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals (0-7, 0-2) led
by as many as 10 points (24-14)
in the first half and claimed a 36-
32 halftime edge. The lead
pushed back to eight points at
43-35 with 16:46 remaining, but
the Yellow Jackets chipped away
until claiming the lead for good
with at 55-53 with 7:33 remaining
in the game.

W&L shot just 8-for-26
(.308) from the ﬂoor in the sec-
ond half, while R-MC shot 12-
of-23 (.522) in the second stanza.

W&L was paced by senior

Team loses grasp of
victory in second half ,

PORTS

guard Mike Stuart
(Warrenton,Va./Fauquier) ‘ A
and sophomore guard _
Chris Halkitis (New Port
Richey, Fla./Ridgewood),
who scored 16 points
each.

Freshman forward
Greg Bienemarm (Chatharn,
N.J./Chatham») notched 10
points, and freshman forward
Colton Braud (Houston, Texas/
James Taylor) added seven
points, ﬁve rebounds and five
assists. I

Randolph-Macon (2-2, 2-
0) was led by junior forward
Justin Wansley’s 24-point,
15—rebound effort. Sopho-
more forward Philip Hawley
added 12 points.

Washington and Lee re-
turns to action on Sunday as it
travels to Virginia Wesleyan for
a 2:00 pm contest.

PAGE 7

    
    
 

Emily Hulen / Ring-Tum P/12'

University Dining Services

Hours of Operation

‘ Extended hours for exam week only!
*7 :30am to 1:00am Friday 10”‘, Sunday 12”‘-Wednesday

*8:00am to midnight- Saturday 11”‘
*7 :30am to midnight- Thursday 16”‘
*7:30am to 4:00pm-. Friday 17”‘ .
*7:30am to 2:00pm- Monday 20”‘-Wednesday 22"”
*closed Thursday 23” until Sunday Jan. 2"” at

*7:15am to 7:00pm- Monday 13”‘-Friday 17”‘
*closed after dinner Friday 17”‘ until Sunday Jan. 2"” at

LAW SCHOOL BRIEF STOP
*7:45am to 5:30pm- Monday 13”‘-Wednesday 15”‘
*closed Thursday 16”‘ until Monday Jan. 3”‘ at 7:45am

****MIDNlGHT BREAKFAST‘. 10:30pm-12:30am****
featuring Breakfast at Tillany’s
at the Commons Marketplace

December 2004

CAFE ‘77

15”‘

5:00pm

MARKETPLACE

5:00pm

Monday December 13”‘

’ down...thoroughly

A game to remember

Of all the recent sports events, nothing tops the brawl

BY RYAN GRl'I"I‘ER
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

Well, Thanksgiving break
certainly had quite a bit to keep
us sports fans interested, not the
least of which was the ﬁght be-
tween the Pacers and Detroit
fans. I had come home from a
night out to be greeted by the
sight of stupid fans getting
punched in the face. ....over and
over again. I had to watch 6 times
before I was able to go to bed.

I don’t know about anyone
else, but I’ve always been curi-
ous to see these guys fight, I
mean they’re like 66” and com-
pletely jacked. . . ..it was a dream
come true to see them in combat.

Though on that note I must
say I was rather disappointed in
their ﬁghting abilities. Jackson
landed a nice shot on that ran-
dom fan, I’ll give him that, but
Jermaine O’Neal was slipped and
fell as he punched some fan on
the court. He looked so lanky
and goofy slipping and falling
like that.

Then Artest was not able to
live up to his words and a mouth
like that you know he’s been in
plenty of ﬁghtsin the past. I liked
when he palms the first guys face
and slams in down, but after that
it was all downhill. . ..nothing but
pushing and grabbing.

Then when that chubby little
bastard comes up to him on court
he misses twice! What the
crap?!?! The guy didn’t even go
disap-
pointed.

Also, in the stands, some
little point guard (I couldn’t catch
who it was) gets beaten down so

quickly that I had to include the
previous parenthetical. Seriously,
some enormous black guy just
beats the crap out of him with no
trouble at all, and the player had
to be at least 6’2” and ripped.
While we’re on this topic, let

“I don’t know about
anyone else, but l’ve
always been curious to
see these guys ﬁght, I
mean they’re like 66”
and completely
jacked. . ...itwas a
dream come true to see

them in combat.”
RYAN GRI'I’I'ER

me just say that I agreed with the
commentators from the night it
happened, not after when they
were pressured into being soft-
ies.

Did anyone notice that the
night of the incident all the com-
mentators agreed that if a player
is physically attacked by fans he
has the right to enter the stands,
and that any violence on court
was completely deserved? I
quote one of them who said,
“Anything they did on court is a
freebie. Fans, if you went on the

court you got what you de-

served.”

Merry Christmas from the PM

Then the next few days after
they quickly switched to view-
ing all the players involved as
criminals. Watch that one fan
open a fresh Mountain Dew and
pour it directly onto Jermaine
O’Neal’s face and tell me who
the criminals were in this situa-
tion.

So enough about basketball,
let’s move on to baseball. For all
of you who doubted whether or
not Bonds used/uses steroids,
let me give you an update here, a
checklist of sorts. 1) Balco Indus-
tries has now been confirmed as
providing steroids 2) Sheffield
has come forward and admitted
that Bonds gave him steroids,
and 3) Giambi has admitted to ste-
roid use, and that he got the ste-
roids from Bonds’ weight trainer.
Coincidence? Please.

Finally, the sport that usu-
ally gets the most attention on
Thanksgiving probably de-
served the least. What was the
deal with the football match ups
this year? The first game was kind
of entertaining as we could watch
Peyton tear the Lions up, but he
was out early in the third quarter,
and the rest of the game was
worthless.

Then the next game, Bears
vs. Boys, by far the worst offen-
sive game I’ve ever watched. N o
offense equals no interest, take
a lesson from baseball on that
one.

Yet, despite footballs’ holi-
day disappointments, nothing
could bring us down from the in-
credible ﬁght, which was joined
by more cool ﬁghts in college and
pro football, as weH as plenty of
shows based on ﬁghts... which
are always good.

BlueRidge
PHYSICAL THERAPY

Care with you in mind

463-5388
728 North Lee Hwy
Lexington, VA

{College Square shopping center)

John 3:15
Specializing in:
Orthopedics

Sports Medicine
Spinal Mobilization

Postv-OP rehabilitation

Please call or stop by to speak with one 0fOZ4?* sraﬁ”
members with any questions you may have concerning your
rreamzenz‘, or your insurance.

0111‘

check

Like No O01-her‘
Shop
You've Seen!

éifrs & Snac/cs‘
_f'ar_- All Occas/on.s_'_
001' Tea Room

(Serving Premium Teas, Light Fare 6: Sweets)

Body Fr-osfirgl Student Care Package:

5171935 zuinfsl
6/taco/are Bandaidsl
Kick/ts: Popcorn!

1VIonday—Saturday 10 a.rn. - 5:30 p-In-
Sunday Noon — 4:00 pLm.

13 South Maj}; sn-eét"
464-4433

www-ﬁ1nfoodsforyou-coxn _

‘Access

.$ornerhirg for Everyone
Above/1)’ Candies
6/‘ff Baskets

Fun Foods

& _
or-es

I

 

  

PAGE 8

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2004

"§"2iEiiiN'(rl3;!lll)l-ii
W F
l .i.FE

Lexington offers unique holiday gifts

BY LEAH KERSHAW
STAFF WRITER

Looking for the perfect Christmas gift? Lexington shops
offer unique presents with a personal touch.

For a small college town, Lexington shops offer gifts to
fit any student’s budget.

Pumpkin Seeds, a boutique featuring women’s clothing,
accessories, upscale toiletries, and hostess gifts, has much
to offer the holiday shopper. Whimsical Christmas ornaments,
festive jewelry, and stocking stuffers are sure to please the
women in anyone’s life.

Molly Gilbride, an upscale women’s shoe store, has a
great selection of well-known brands including Lulu Guiness
and Cynthia Rowley. Molly Gilbride also sells Tarina Taratino
jewelry, which was recently featured in In Style magazine.

Siobhan Gilbride, the owner of Molly Gilbride and Pump-
kin Seeds, said that this funky jewelry, made of Lucite, is a
popular item this year.

If you are in search of the perfect hostess gift or stock-
ing stuffers, Fun Food’s and Accessories is the place to go.
Victoria Pannell, the owner of Fun Food’s and Accessories,
has appointed her store the “stocking stuffer capital of Lex-
ington.” Fun Food’s and

Accessories features a variety of fun gifts for the holi-
day season including a chocolate toilet seat and ant candy.
Fun Food’s and Accessories is “truly a place to go that you
can find something for everyone, animals included” says
Pannell.

Pappagallo, anthor women’s clothing store in town, has
seen over 27 Christmas seasons in Lexington. If you are look-
ing for help picking out the perfect gift, Susie Crawford, the
owner of Pappagallo, is more than willing
to help.

Crawford has been in the women’s
clothing business since August of 1977
when she opened Pappagallo.

Vera Bradley products, affordable
jewelry and tons of Free People clothing
are among some of the gift ideas that can
be found at Pappagallo. Crawford also offers gift certificates
and free gift wrapping.

Virginia Born and Bred features Virginia products. Over
80% of the items sold in Virginia Born and Bred are produced
by Virginia manufacturers. This shop offers fine gift items
and specialty gift baskets which can be shipped anywhere.

Virginia Born and Bred sells silver plated utensils, funky
glass colored beads wrapped in wire, which are handmade in
Glen Allen, VA. Hilary DeHaan ’05 bought some of the uten-

For a small college town,
Lexington shops offer gifts to
fit any student’s budget.

0 LrrrLE TOWN OF LEXINGTON.

Still looking for Christmas gifts for
friends and fa.mily.? Downtown Lexington offers many options for the '
discerning shopper in all of us.

sils for her mom for Christmas. Her mother “likes them be-
cause they’re classy with a funky edge” said DeHaan.

Artists in Cahoots, the local artists co—op, has tons
of unique gift ideas including jewelry and beautiful
Christmas ornaments. Sylvan Spirit, one of the jewelry
lines offered in the co—op, is sold in overone hundred shops
around the world.

Maureen Worth, one the two jewelry

designers for the line, said Sylvan Spirit is
making special holidayjewelry for the sea-
son. The holiday line will include Holly and
Poinsettiajewelry made of clay, silver and
bronze. Worth is willing to custom design
necklaces and earrings to fit any budget.
Custom jewelry is completed in three to five days.

Michael Viviano ’07 ordered a custom made necklace for
his mother. He was pleased with the necklace and said that it
turned out beautifully. “Since I’m from a big city, I don’t tend
to see as much localized type stuff like Sylvan Spirit, so it
was a nice change from what I’d normally buy as a gift,” said
Viviano.

Lexington boutiques offer W&L students great gift ideas
with a local twist.

W&L. Bookstore Presents...
\ Student Book of the Week

A , lly tenure of the loolstolo um! the n'ng-‘nun Ini
\

I  no ether or:
....‘.‘;,.~ A - A: 5 i  ill:
FOB Till‘: l'lClLIDﬁElS

This hilarious holiday book is full of.TeffFoxworthy's tradeinark humor. Includes the
Redneck Twelve Days of Christmas, “The Night After Christmas," and dozens of holiday
themed “You Might Be A Redneck If. .  jokes, including:

You mightbe a Redneck if. ..

— The plastic deer in your ya'd at Christmas double as practice tagets
Santa Claus refuses to let your lcids sitin his lap.
Even your snowman has abeer gut
Chrisunas dinner was too slow crossing the road on Christmas Eve.

Hilariously illustrated, this book contains a bonus CD of Jeff Foxworthy’ s Redneck 12
Days of Christmas. Makes the perfect gift for your favorite redneck in end or relative

&gularpn'¢:e: $14.99
Book afthe Week Price: $12. 50

Alternative Christ-
mas carols you
ought to learn

BY EMILY EDWARDS
AR'IS&LlFE EDITOR

Many an odd thing has occurred on our cam-
pus over the past couple of weeks. Something
tells me our beloved Dubyuhnell is changing... and

in some cases, not for the better.

scholastic excellence in his chosen ﬁeld of endeavor.

excellence throughout your life.

since 1945.

Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.

www.olphcrphicrlpho.nei

Why Alpha at WLU?
. . . ,

The objective of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. is to stimulate the ambition of its members; to prepare them for the greatest ,
usefulness in the causes of humanity, freedom and dignity of the individual; to encourage the highest and noblest form of manhood;
and to aid down-trodden humanity in its efforts to achieve higher social, economic and intellectual status.

 

Alpha Phi Alpha, the ﬁrst intercollegiate Greek-letter fraternity established for African-Americans, was founded at Cornell University in
Ithaca, New York by seven college men who recognized the need for a strong of Brotherhood between African descendents in this

country. The visionary founders, known as the “Jewels” of the Fraternity, are: Henry Arthur Callis, Charles Henry Chapman, Eugene
Kinckle Jones, George Biddle Kelley, Nathaniel Allison Murray, Robert Harold Ogle and Vertner Woodson Tandy.

Alpha Phi Alpha was founded with one thing in mind: scholarship. An Alpha man is ﬁrst a college man, and his greatest boast is

The Fraternity has grown from seven men in 1906 to over 175,000 men today. Times have changed and Alpha Phi Alpha has kept
abreast with the times, but one thing that Alpha Phi Alpha has never relinquishedis scholarship. Proven scholastic attainment has
always been a requirement of initiation in the fraternity. As an Alpha man,

Alpha Phi Alpha is represented on the campus of leading universities and colleges throughout the United States, Africa, Europe, the
West Indies and Asia (Korea & Japan). There are more than three hundred ﬁfty college chapters to be found on the same number
of university campuses that have been accredited by a regional or national accrediting agency. The fraternity has been interracial

Proof of Enrollment Transcript — minimum GPA of 2.5 Essay Biographical Sketch/Resume
Proof of Voter Registration Three letters of Recommendation Application and Membership Fee

Al WL ?

Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. representation on the Washington and Lee University campus would provide opportunities for
African-American students and others to seek membership in one of the historically Black Greek letter organization. Our
primary focus is community service and to provide a link to the WLU campus and the Lexington community of issues and
concerns the African-American community and other people of color.
The most remarkable leadership in the African-American community in the 215‘ century has without question come from the ,
ranks of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. The fraternity has supplied voice and vision to the struggle of the African-Americans and
people of color around the world. This is your ﬁrst step toward joining the ranks of hundreds of thousands of great men whose

interest lay outside themselves.  
[H [I .l . '99] “MM” HI I" I" 7 .

To learn more about becoming a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, lnc., please feel free to contact. Mr. Sean L.
Bates (Advisor) at Ba  or at 804 519-5176.

you will be required to uphold this transition of scholastic

So this is the last Phi before Christmas break.
And in the Christmas spirit, I have “written” a few
carols for all on campus to appreciate.

I offer my sincerest apologies to the original
writers of these timeless, traditional melodies.

Go Tell it on House Mountain
tune.‘ Go Tell it on the Mountain

While Fratlords kept their watching,
O’er quiet basements by night,
Behold throughout Red Square,
There shone an evil light.

Chorus:

Go tell it on House Mountain,
Over the hills and everywhere,
Go tell it on House Mountain
That Burish comes to rule.

The Fratlords feared and trembled
as wristbands ‘arrived in tow.
Twenty—one and over,
or drinking’s a big “no-no!”

(chorus)

Down on the Colonnade,
this ruling came to be.
Trustees sent out the letters,
hands tied by ABC.

(chorus)

What Grade is This?
time: What Child is This ?

What grade is this that faces me,
in classes I am failing?
While Harvard, Dartmouth and Princeton
inflate their grades for rankings.

This! This is infamy!

I study hard but get a B.

Brown! Yale! They work much less,
and get an A with no stress.

Good Freshmen Men Rejoice
tune: Good Christian Men Rejoice

Good freshmen men rejoice,
with heart and soul and voice.
Give ye heed to what I say,
RUSH! RUSH!
Pledgeship will come your way:
To Upperclassmen you will bow,
So enjoy your life right now.
You will hate your life!
You will hate your life!

Good Freshmen men rejoice
With heart and soul and voice.
Now your life is endless bliss,
RUSH! RUSH!

You came for Dubyuhnell for this.
Frats will open up their doors,
And you’ll be blessed for evermore.

Eight weeks you must endure!
' Eight weeks you must endure!

«-  1* ‘

 

’IiiE (3~’ll,ii.\<i PHI

RT S

BY ELYSE MOODY
STAFF WRITER

“War of the Worlds” stirs up excitementin Lexington

People all over the country have been reading, about the
shooting of the Steven Spielberg film “War of the Worlds”
here in Rockbridge County. Filming begins December 13 and
14 for military scenes and will continue through
December 16 with scenes of civilians.

Actor Tim Robbins is rumored to be in
town for the shoot; some say he was spotted
at Dairy, Queen on Friday. When co-star Tom
Cruise and Spielberg were in Lex scouting out
locations, they also dropped by DQ. What is
it about that place? I don’t know, but if you
are looking to get an autograph, it seems like
the place to be. A

I decided to get a closer look at the pro-
cess and attended the open casting call at
Rockbridge County High School. Apparently,
they are looking for about 500 extras: ll chil-
dren, a bunch of women and military types, and a handful of
men.

The casting call was held from 8 AM until 4 PM on Satur-

day, but I decided to get there a little early to take advantage

of every possible opportunity to meet someone exciting or to
be “discovered”—as it were. Here’s a rundown of exactly what
happens at these crazy events, at least in my experience:

4:00 AM——Shower and getting read-y for my close up.
That’s right, most people were probably getting HOME
around now. You have to sacrifice for stardom, my
friends.

4:30 AM—Leave Woods Creek Apartments for the parking
garage, approximately 26 degrees Fahrenheit.

4:35 AM——Return to Woods Creek, as I forgot my resume
and non—returnable, close-up photograph. Back to the car,
and we’re off. Yes, and it’s still freezing.

4:45 AM——Cruise through the Rockbridge County High
School Gym, where the casting call is taking place. Yes, some
people did in fact camp out in order to be the first
ones in the door. I see their Crazy Creeks—they definitely
camped out at the high school.

A group of about 30 people shivers in the cold, wearing
about a dozen layers, including blankets and sleeping bags.
Other people make their spouses wait in line while they sit in
their cars. That’s devotion to science fiction.

5:00 AM——Wafﬂe House. A fantastic place to be at 5 in the
morning. Lots of coffee, and hash browns scattered all the
way. Just in case this event lasts all day, it seemslike a good

Special talents? Excellent at
death scenes, can cry on
demand successfully, speak
French, play guitar, and am_

naturally, effortlessly an

clumsy—a rnust—have
quality of victims in Sci-Fi
movies. Feel like a shoe-in.

EMILYEDWARDS
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
EMAIL EDwARDstM@ww.EDU

LIFE  

idea to have an enormous breakfast. If you’ve never been
there this early, it’s an interesting experience——I highly rec-
ommend it. _

5:45 AM—Back to the Gym. The crowd has grown to
about 100 people, and Sonia Siu and I fearlessly join the line.
It’s still dark and about 28 degrees at this point, and we are
both wearing heels just in case there is a need to look profes-
sional for this. We soon realize that this was a mistake,
as our toes gradually lose fe e l i n g .
Next time, I will be sporting Siberian bobsled-
ding gear and toting a portable space
heater. It would be worth the absurdity—it
is ridiculously cold.

6:00 AM—Still freezing. Losing feel-
ing in all extremities by this point, but begin
interesting conversation with the
people around us in line. One man is holding
a spot in line for his 2 sons. Another woman
is a law student at the University 0 f
Richmond who drove up at 3:00 AM (! !) just
to get here in plenty of time.

6:30 AM—Still no sign of potentially
being let into the gym and out of the cold. Beginning
to wonder if this is worth the effort. The crowd has grown to
a couple hundred people at this point.

7:00 AM—And the end is in sight; they promise to open
the doors by 8:00 AM. The crowd is getting a lot bigger
now, maybe closer to a thousand people. Lots of
small children come around 8 with hopes of getting one of the
eleven specific roles for young kids.

7:25 AM—Official—1ooking woman shows up in clothing
inappropriate for the weather. We assume she is important
and begin to hope that we’ll be let inside soon. Just
thirty-five more minutes...

7:45 AM—~A man in trendy clothes and black, square
glasses announces that the process will begin in a
couple of minutes, and a woman starts handing out forms to
ﬁll out. They ask your name, height, weight, and standard
measurements. So ready to go inside by now; I am
wondering if my toes are going to be frostbitten by the
time I get home. Do I still have toes? I don’t know—I can’t
feel them.

8:00 AM—Call my mom, tell her where I am and what’s
going on. She asks if I’ve met Tom Cruise. I say, “Give me
time.” She asks me ifI’m wearing ﬂip ﬂops in an accusatory
tone. I say, “No, thank God.” I think the Reefs have been
retired for the season. Finish filling out form. Special
talents? Hmmm...excellent at death scenes, can cry on
demand successfully, speak French, play guitar, and am
naturally, effortlessly clumsy—a must—have quality of vic-

 

PAGE 9

  
    

casprzasr T;£'C1i<iﬁ_iCQ we  
‘ ateaxﬁi ~u§aiE‘}ii§pu5{armaaea:tretat

‘ . .°:s:a«ca-«gi‘»:9wai¢‘_M'r»o»z.».ax-¢x«.«».s.~»»m».~ -’-«wen»-v‘«<3)*>xw.«s/<<

 

CURTESY OF ART.COM

Ir’s THE END or THE WORLD AS WE KNOW IT. People from Lexington and
surrounding area came to Rockbridge County High School on Saturday
for a chance at Stardom: being an extra in Spielberg’s latest endeavor, yet
another remake of The War of tbe LVor/dr.

tims in Sci-Fi movies. Feel like a shoe—in.

8:20 AM—FINALLY move inside. My toes are tingling
(they WON’T have to be amputated! Phewl), but I am still
excited. I scan the room for people exuding an aura of ce-
lebrity. Disappointingly, I see no one and sense no vibes.
Maybe ifI get picked for a part I can meet Tim Robbins?! Just
maybe.

8:25 AM—Hand in my form at the table in the front of the
gym. No big whoop. Nothing to be excited about yet—just
waiting for that call. That’s all I can do now. Wait.

That, and turn on the heat in my car and drive home while
listening to Mariah Carey Christmas on the radio. And take a
nap.

 

  
  want to become a ticictor.

 

to March 1.

4'1 0-51 6»-7748.

For more iriformation, visit 

 

The Johns Hopkins F’ost«»Bac;caiaureate Premiedicai rogram
prepares college graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the best medical seihrmts by giving them the I
personai attention, the necessary science and math cows 3,
and one-tmane academic advising»  
if you or someone you kriowswams to pureue a career as a

doctor, apply during the application period of September 1

  medirzal SC.ll(i£ii.” I

 

.jhu.edulpostbac or call

“I dam. have the p
, required courses for

    

JOHNS HOPE   

Past-Bar:csat aurea.te
Premedical Prasgsram

 

 

PAGE 10

THE

  

THE RlNG~TUM PHI

AST ORD

FJHILYFDWARIJS
ARIs&liEEEDrioR
EMAii;Ei)\riARusEiu@wiiiri)u

MONDAY, DECEMBER .6, 2004

Potato Man ponders what actually happened to fim Chiistinas gifts

Those who know me know that my phone’s ringer is set to We
Wish You a Merry Christmas, all year long. Annoying? Yes. But to
me Christmas is the best time of year, so, when you are around me,
Christmas is year round. Unfortunately, my family seems to think
that Christmas is a once a year thing and therefore celebrates it as
such. VV1th that time fast approaching, I have had to make my
annual Christmas list, which I feel kind enough to
share with you, in case any of you feel the need to

can’t drive there either. (See how this car thing works. . .I can even
blame being fat on not having a car). Besides, treadmills don’t even
come close to comparing to the efﬁciency of John Basedow’s work-
out. If someone gives me those videos for Christmas, I might ﬁnally

have the body I always dreamed about.
I’ve also noticed over the past few years that I no longer get
“fun” gifts. I used to open presents and get Power
Ranger ﬁgurines. Those were the good old days,

buy me a gift. ' POTATO MAN when everyone comes back to daycare with their new
The first thing I am asking for is a car. Not toys....Actually, now that I think about it, it wasn’t
because I will get a car if I ask for it, but it is more to ’ MARSHALL RULE that fun. That spoiled brat across the street always

make my family feel guilty that I am here without a
car. All year I tell them, “I need a car so bad. It’s
impossible to survive without a car.” I have my

mom feeling so bad that I don’t have a ride that she will now buy me

twice as much stuff as my brother, and justify it by saying, “But he
has to walk everywhere, so he needs more things.”

I also need the Fitness Made Simple featuring John Basedow
instructional videos. Lately, I have been putting on weight faster
than Kirstie Alley. I know that there are treadmills in the gym, but the
gym is just so far away. By the time I walk there I am exhausted and
don’t have the energy to walk back. And since I don’t have a car, I

got better gifts. He came with the Blue Ranger, and
then made fun of me when I showed up with the Pink
Ranger, because the store was all out of the others.
When I got home to complain to my parents, they told me I was being
ungrateful and needed my mouth washed out with soap. I have

never complained about a gift since.
But over the past few years I’ve had to ask for practical gifts.

_ Clothes, alarm clocks, razors. I know they are necessities, but Christ-

mas is supposed to be about fun, not personal hygiene. That is why
this yearl am asking for the Blue Ranger. I don’t know if they still
make them. I don’t know if the show is even still on TV. But I thinkl

have waited long enough, and I ﬁnally want to show that brat across
the street that I’m cool too. "

My favorite gift on Christmas is socks. I know this seems
stupid, and that most people imagine socks as the last thing any-
one would want for Christmas. But, to me, there is nothing I love
more than wearing a brand new pair of socks. Ifl was rich enough,
I would buy a new pair of socks every morning, and throw them in
the garbage at the end of the day.

And lastly, I am asking that Boise State gets the credit that
they deserve for going undefeated and having the longest winning
streak in the country. Twenty-two games in a row. The BCS gives
them no respect, and neither does the rest of the nation. I also wish
that they change the setup of the championship so that the top four
teams get to be in a playoff. The #1 and #4 teams play, the #2 and
#3 teams play, and the winners face off in for the Championship.
It’s time we take the controversy out of sports. If you could some-
how buy the NCAA and change that, that would be a pretty cool
gift, that and letting me hangout with the University of Kentucky
cheerleaders. -

Everybody says Christmas is about giving and not receiving,
and I couldn’t agree more. . .. So GIVE me the things on my list. Now
that’s the Christmas spirit. '

Overly friendly security, drooling ﬁve-year-olds and future opera stars ruin travel

I love to travel. I am never happy staying in
one place for too long. I get restless. Unfortunatly,
today traveling translates to hours of waiting, be-
ing patted down by security guards (who seem to
enjoy their jobs a little too much, if you know what I
mean), and canceled, oveibooked, and delayed ﬂights.

When I was little, I used to love airports. Chi-
cago O’hare was a fun house- a maze of glass and
chrome open to exploration. I was enthralled by the
escalators and the baggage claim. I could have spent
days sitting next to the Plexiglas windows, watch-
ing the planes make shaky takeoffs and smooth
landings. I even used to dream of being an airline
attendant . One day I could be in London, the next
in Barcelona. However, since I can barely walk in a
straight line on solid ground, that dream was quickly
put to rest. (Seriously, I weave around like a drunk-
ard even when my BAC is a solid 0.0.)

This summer, after a variety of mix-ups and
rniscommunications between the pilots, the ﬂight
attendants, the baggage claim workers, and the tick-
eting agents at United Airlines, I lost my faith in
modern travel. Actually, I was half considering hitch-
hiking back to Wisconsin‘ for Thanksgiving break.
But, having seen my share of B-rated horror mov-

_ ies, I decided to give air travel another shot (lest

Michael Myers or Freddy Cougar have come back
to life again). So, I booted up my computer, ran a
google search, and came up with the best priced
ticket I could lay my hands on and began mentally
preparing myself for the trip to come.

November 19 quickly rolled around. After I had
made it to the airport (which was a dramatic, trau-
matic experience in itself), I had a ﬁve hour wait for
my ﬂight. Thus, the trip was already posed to be

long and exhausting. Since i had ﬁnished packing
shortly before dawn, I had not been in the state of
mind to pack a lunch. Thus, if I wanted to eat, I had
to suck it up and patron the airport cafe (cafe is not
the term I would employ, but. ..). Trying to be healthy
(because I knew I’d gain at least ﬁve pounds over
break) , I sidled up to the counter and ordered a
bowl of cereal (half a serving), a granola bar, and a
Nutragrain bar. The bill came to a total of $6.10. I
balked. “$6.10?! For this?!” “The server sweetly
explained that the cereal did indeed come with a
container of  I know that I’m from Vlfisconsin,
where milk runs aplenty, but I’m fairly sure the go-
ing rate for cow juice is not

for me. Let me explain:

Nine times out of ten, I get placed next to a
“talker.” Now, don’t get me wrong, I’m a friendly
girl. I love to meet new people, and I think its fasci-

nating to talk to individuals with whom I'd nor- '

mally never come into contact. But I have my lim-
its. Word of advice, if I just met you a half an hour
ago, please don’t tell me a) what medications you
are taking b) what weird rashes you’ve contracted
in the past or c) the frequency with which you mow
your lawn. No. I am not kidding. I have heard it all.
Frankly, I don’t care if you mow every first and
third Monday of the month. Or what kind of lawn

mower you use. Or the brand

three dollars, even in the South.
Needless to say, I got a muffin
instead (might as well get a head
start on the holiday binge,

THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL
KRisiiNE EARLY

of weed killer. And I’d rather
be kept in the dark about your
rash, even if you assure me it’s
not infectious. I’d rather sit

right?).

So at 12: 30 (rather than 12:10), Iboarded Flight
5841, well-fed but a bit on edge. Needless to say, I
was not all that thrilled to discover that my seat
was at the very back of the plane- the worst spot. I
couldn’t put my seat back. I didn’t have a view. I
was the last to get served. To top it all off my seat
was right next to the bathroom. The bathroom was
“malfunctioning,” a nice technical way to say that
the toilet didn’t ﬂush. It wasn’t a pleasant (smell-
ing) experience. ‘

Now, normally, I wouldn’t complain about ei-
ther the high costs of Cheerios or two and a half
hours of discomfort. I would chalk everything up
to bad luck and capitalism and forget the whole
experience. But this experience wasn’t a ﬂuke. I am
beginning to think that the airport Gods have it in

next to you in peaceful igno-

rance. Actually, I’d rather not sit next to you.

(Would you mind a seat on the wing? I hear it has a
nice view. Bonus mileage points!)

But even worse than the passenger who won’t

shut up‘ about his lawn care system are the obnox-

ious brats that inevitably end up in the row behind

I Inc. And the row in front of me. And the row beside

me. I like children. I really do. I especially like them
when they are nowhere near me. (I subscribe to the
“children should neither be seen nor hear ” school
of thought.)

Children, while irritating in restaurants and
stores, are absolutely intolerable as soon as they
step on an aircraft. The elevation must be good for
their developing lungs. I’ve heard four-year olds
who could blow the best opera singers away with

their high Cs. However, as much as I enjoy the free
entertainment, I’d prefer to listen to a Christina
Aguilera CD. Or maybe not. Scream kids! Scream!
(Oohh. Harsh, Kristine. Harsh.)

Fortunately, on this ﬂight, I was spared from
the “yeller” and the “kicker” — the kid whose feet
“accidentally” make contact with the back of your
chair a few thousand times. But as much as I enjoy
a good massage chair, I just can’t fall asleep when
a drooling ﬁve-year old is pretending that my seat
back is indeed a soccer ball. I can’t decide which is
worse, the “kicker” or the seven year—old who
pushes her seat all the way back (Her feet don’t
even reach the ﬂoor! She does not need extra leg
room!)

But even once the little opera stars and future
masseuses get off the plane, they aren’t much bet-
ter. Six and seven year—olds are highly adept at po-
sitioning themselves directly in front of the bag-
gage claim. Apparently, “mommy’s little boy” thinks
he can lift a fifty pound suitcase. Yeah, right. I can’t
even lift a fifty-pound suitcase. (OK, I can, but it is
a pathetic sight indeed. Nope, the eight pound
weights at the gym just don’t prepare one for these
real life test of strength.)

However, despite all the aimoyances that ac-
company air travel - the delays, the high—priced

packaged food, and other passengers in general - '

it’s still my favorite way to cross the country. I
would much rather suffer in silence next to a motor
mouth and a toilet with a “technical problem” than
spend sixteen hours stuffed in the family van. It
seems that soon enough I’ll get that chance. Christ-
mas is only a few weeks away. Boy, am I looking
forward to the trip home...

 

Ul S

Q I heard Rockbridge High School was having a
sick party this weekend and they aren’t carding.

Q Even though the rivers run dry, the grass still
grows and the snow still falls on Lexington.

Q I want to go back high school.

Q Did anybody else notice that the car in Joe
Nichol’s “Nobody Believe’s In You” music video
sports a trident?

Q Have you ever been so hungry that you ripped
apart the microwave popcorn bag and licked the
butter ﬂavoring off the inside? I have.

Q Red Square - West side.

Q Todd Tate long term goals: end under age drink-
ing, find the last digit of Pi, find Osama, and world
peace. I

Q You have nice teeth. You should be a tooth

‘ model.

Q Mittens are sexy.

Q Attention Old House: anal-retention about beer
pong rules won’t get you in anyone’s pants.

Q Is purchasing stolen property an HV?

Q Phi Delt, thanks for the pizza.

Q Did you know Carl Weathers starred in “Action

, Jackson” with Sharon Stone, and that you can rent

it from Crossroads?

Q Whose world isn’t rocked by Cat Swan?

Q Attention freshmen: An inverted Trident sym-
bolizes “the bird” — courtesy of “clu ” Sigma Nu,
1980.

Q Since when do Trix involve ﬂower-shaped
pieces? "

Q Accident Ahead.

Q To the boy in Davis who pees in his sink...we
can see you.

Q Older women know just how to please a man.
Take note, freshmen.

Q Hey Professors, there’s a new craze going
around campuses everywhere. It’s called GRADE
INFLATION...try it some time.

Q Why use Campus Notices for a quick hit when
you could just use...Quick Hits?

Q Is anyone else excited for pledgeship to start?
It’s going to be awesome with everything off-cam-
pus.

Q Prediction? Pain.
Q That’s a negative, Ghostwriter - ABJ

Q H to tha izzo, John to the Rizzo. Holla!

Q I don’t know any Snus. There’s a reason for
that.

Q Bernie Campbell rocks my socks.

Q A certain senior male is going around comment-
ing on nice breasts. Be sure to show him yours.

Q Is anyone else upset that Scott Dittman is on
the facebook?

Q W&L made front page of the Roanoke Times
on Sunday. For what you might ask? Sexual As-
sault. Whoever said all publicity was good pub-
licity obviously did not see this article.

Q Lying to get a kill in maﬁa...not cool.

,Q If by, “a lot of random hookups” you mean, in

comparison to Eastern Mennonite University, then
yes... there are a lot of random hookups at W&L...
Otherwise, WHAT ARE YOU TALKING
ABOUT?!?!?!

Q Why is Walker Vlfilliams the cutest boy ever?
Q Did you know Carl Weathers was’ in the NFL
before he was Apollo Creed?

Q Erastus Parsons - keeping it real since 1866.

Q Keep Wayne Richey ’02 in your prayers as he
recovers from an Iraqi grenade hit

Q Dave's Produce - Same face, different place.

Q I feel so naked without my cell phone.

More Quick Hits...

a reaction to the new

alcohol policy

Q Forget the honor system; drinking is a far bet-
ter tradition

.Q Minks disapprove of the new alcohol policy.

Q The new alcohol policy is about as cool as lung
cancer.

Q It’s easier to black—out in the country anyway.

Q If we liked the social life at Vanderbilt that much
we would be going there...that’s not what we want
here. Even our freshman class president who rep-
resents our class feels that these policies are go-
ing too far.

Q I don’t know what everyone else is worried

about. In the country they have grain and beirut.

Q I bet Kim J ong-il lets his people drink.
Q Is it too late to transfer for next semester?

Q Notice to the Health Center: There is no more
need for free condoms or birth control due to no
more alcohol at frat parties.

Q If the school is taking alcohol out of the frats,
can we at least get better toilet paper?

‘ Q Now that Todd Tate has put an end to under-

age drinking, he sets his sights on world hunger.

Q I don’t know about everyone else, but if the
administration tells me to stop drinking, Ithink I’ll
do it.

Q Don’t worry frats, I’ll just drink a ﬁfth in my
dorm before I go out at night.

Q Now that there is no alcohol we can all start
playing cranium in the living room.

Q I wish I would have gone to a state school.

Q No alcohol! ! !...well at least we still have drugs.

Q This is not the same school I applied to.
Q So much for sending my kids to W&L.
Q I wish I had gone to Davidson.

Q How is East Lex going to make money?

Q What has this school become? I say the Board
of Trustees gets a backbone, otherwise we all leave.

Q Burish hates fun.

QSend your anonymous Quick Hits to
' phi@w1u.edu.

 

