A

  

W

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
THE RING =TUM PHI.
llIKXl3AY,EBHJAFIY23;ZX5 BY THE STUDENTS AND FOR THE STUDENTS SINCE 1897 VGJMECVIMNBHWZ1

HOT TICKET

BRAVEFashionShow

The Day of Beauty will take place
on Saturday, March 5 from 10:00
am to 2:00 pm in the Sorority
Houses of Washington and Lee
University. The Fashion Show will
be held in the evening, from 6:30 to
10:30 pm. It will take place in
Evans Hall of Washington and Lee
University, black tie attire required.
The event will be catered and
showcase stylish clothing from local
shops, modeled by Washington and
Lee students and area residents.

Discussingtheworking Poor
Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and
David Shipler will speak at W&L on
Thursday, March 3, at 7:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel. Shipler’s address, “The
Working Poor: Invisible in America”
is open to the public and free of
charge. The address will be followed
by a 9 p.m. book signing at the
Washington and Lee Bookstore.

SIMPLE LIFE
Capilalizingonsleep

There is one thing in this world that
every college student needs, and
almost none of us get: sleep. Here
are some easy ways to help get a
better supply of slumber in eight
hours or less:

-Avoid Exercise:

9pm is not the time to try and lose
those last few vanity pounds, so give
it up and just relax. Your body’s
energy levels peak between 4 and
8pm, so you won’t make any real
progress anyway. Instead, try a quiet,
peaceful activity such as reading— A
college kids do that sometimes.
Experts say that activities such as
watching television and surfing the
intemet should als6"Ue avoided at
least an hour before sleeping,
because they make so many demands
on your brain.

-No More Drama:

This step may be tough for some of
us to tackle. Try not to have any
important conversations less than an
hour before bed. The idea here is
optimum relaxation, so when
possible, avoid making big
breakthroughs in your life just before
sleep. Delay any big conversations
until the morning, when you will not
only be more rational, but also more
positive.

-Bouncing off the Walls Again?
Stay away from caffeine and sugar
after 8pm. Not only has your body’s
metabolism slowed down, preventing
you from burning off these calories,
but also you will have a harder time
trying to settle in for some serious
power sleep. Though it sounds like
something an old lady would do, try
warm milk with honeyemilk has a
modiﬁed version of the amino acid
tryptophan, plus calcium, both of

_ which help lull you to sleep. The

honey (as well as the temperature of
the beverage) allow for better
absorption and better relaxation.
-Get Yourself in the Mood

Nothing says sleep better than a cool,
dark room and your favorite PJs. The
ideal conditions for sleep involve
quiet, steady white noise—a fan
works great—as well as a dark room
and a comfy bed. Avoid sleeping in
uncomfortable clothing such as
denim, and try not to fall asleep over
a textbook. You’ll rest better if you
put the books away and lie down
relaxed and calm. Also, try to turn
your clock away from you, so you
can’t sense the urgency of time while
you’re trying to sleep.

IA few extra zzz’s come in handy
when trying to avoid illness, stress,
and dark undereye circles. Get ready
to start each day refreshed and
ready—now that exhaustion isn’t an
obstacle, you’ll have new problems
to deal with!

QUICK POLL

Q: Doyou use
MM ?

  

51 students polled, 29 male. 22 lemale. Poll has 95% conﬁdence
in a +/- 5% margin of error.

W&L eyes major housing reforms 

ByCtIisLardanm
H)'lU=l—NCHEF

Greek housing will be exclusively
available to juniors and seniors in the
future, according to the preliminary
strategic plan. Released over Washington
Break, the plan said freshmen and
sophomores will be required to live on
campus in “Learning Communities,”
potentially based on a theme.

“The reports are preliminary in
nature and now available for all to
comment,” said Dawn Watkins, Dean of
Students. “There are a lot of ideas that
would need further exploration but
nothing is set in stone at this point.”

But if it does happen, smaller
fraternities who rely on sophomores to fill
their housing quotas may run into ﬁnancial
difﬁculties. Currently, fraternities have to
pay for every bed that is not occupied in
their house-

New residence halls are a high
priority according to the administration.

“There need to be social spaces,”
said Joe Grasso, Vice President for
Administration.

Grasso said that there is a revenue
source for the dorms — students. Another
reason for building new dorms is to attract
conferences to W&L over the summer. He
said that the new residences will most
likely be suite style and the location of the
new dorm or dorms has not yet been
determined.

In the coming year, the university
will be hiring a campus master plarmer.
This planner will review all areas of
campus and decide where new buildings
could be built and where pedestrian
connections could be made.

If it is decided that Baker, Davis,
and Gilliam are located in prime academic
areas, freshmen could be moved to another
location. Woods Creek Apartments could

even be replaced by a new concept.

“This [sophomore campus
residency], like the many other proposals
in the various planning reports, is on the
table for discussion,” Provost Thomas
Williams said. “How it will be evaluated
and prioritized in the process is far from
determined, and input from students,
faculty, alumni and others will be
important to its consideration.”

The recommendation for
sophomores to live on campus came from
different sources. The gender relations
committee pointed out that the sophomore
year, the males are gone. Also, the faculty
expressed an interest in the Learning
Communities. The timeline for this is
uncertain. Grasso said it could be as far
off as ten years, while Watkins said it
might not even happen.

The University says that it is not
planning because of a crisis, but because
of an opportunity. This opportunity is to

better the school’s reputation and ranking.
Nine task forces were organized to
come up with specific plans such as
academic, student life and admissions.
The task forces are composed of Trustees,
Administrators, and Faculty members.
The members of the task forces were
selected by one task force leader who was
knowledgeable in his topic. The leader
then selected the rest of the members.
The posted plan is not the final plan.
It is currently up for discussion and review.
Students can make any comments they
would like before the ﬁnal draft is made
in February 2006. Comments can be made
by emailing Provost Williams or going to
the drop box part of the strategic plan’s
website at http://strategicplan.wlu.edu.
“Students should, indeed, take this
information seriously,” Williams said.
“We want to know student views on all
these proposals, and want as well to have
original ideas from the student body.”

STEPPERS SHINE ON SATURDAY

StompingmdoIappingtheirwayintoW&LhistoIy,7Greekorga1iza1ions
pedomedaheart-pumpingshowh1ﬂ1egymonSaurrday.111estepshow,as
wenasﬁienemy-qapmvedacadanicoornoamaﬂomderrrmshateagomng
in1IerestinAfrican-Americanstudiesoncampus. SeniorTIﬂanyJenkinssaid,
“|t’sgeatthalwe’re having somethingdifferentgoingonaround campus. It

gotalotofpeopletogelher.”

Corbin B|ack1ord/ Photo Editor

African-American
Studies coming

BySa'd1|V|uray

l\EVVSEI|'U°l

Four years ago, a student group
called the Black Female Alliance first
called upon the faculty to create an
African-American Studies program at
Washington & Lee. Last month, the
administration and faculty responded,
approving an African-American Studies
concentration to be available in the fall.

“We’ve worked for nearly three
years to bring it to reality, and now we can
begin the real work with the teaching and
the learning,” said Associate Professor
Marc Conner, who was one of the
prograrn’s authors.

Conner and Associate Professor Ted
DeLaney took up the students’ appeals,
bringing the proposal before the
Committee of Courses and Degrees two
years ago. The issue was put aside as the
Spring Term controversy escalated, but
Conner and DeLaney doggedly brought it
back at the beginning of this year.

What started as a student suggestion
is now ofﬁcially a part of Washington &
Lee’s course selection.

“Undergraduate student ideas can
become a reality here if they have merit,”
said DeLaney, who heads the program.

That’s no exaggeration. When a
science student worked with her
professors to plan an independent degree
program, the Neuroscience major was
born. Later, student requests triggered the
establishment of the Women’s Studies
concentration.

Completing the concentration is

easier than students may expect. Nearly
all of the courses are already in the catalog.
Some, like History of the African-
American People, have been taught at
Washington & Lee for 10 years.
Consequently, many students have already
fulfilled several of the program’s
requirements.

“A lot of juniors are going to look
at this and say, ‘Oh my gosh, I’m halfway
there,” said DeLaney.

, “It’s conceivable that in the next
year or two W&L will graduate its first
students with a concentration in Aﬁican—
American Studies,” Conner pointed out.

Students in the program are required
to take an introductory course
(Interdepartmental 130), History of the
African-American People, and to
complete a senior capstone project.
Otherwise, they may choose from certain
History, Politics, Sociology, English,
Literature, Art and Music courses to ﬁnish
the 21-credit concentration.

“This is truly an interdisciplinary
program,” DeLaney said.

The concentration will not be
published in the upcoming catalog, but
will appear on the registrar’s website this
fall. Like other concentrations at
Washington & Lee, African-American
Studies will not appear on any degree, but
on academic transcripts only.

A luncheon for interested students
will be held on March 7 at 12:00 p.m.
Students are requested to e-mail DeLaney
(delaneyt@wlu.edu) if they plan on
attending.

Va. House passes bill to help students with textbooks

ByLedIKerslnM
STAFFVWIITEH

Local college students are frustrated
with the high prices and low resale value
of textbooks. Mindful of the slim budgets
of many college students, the Virginia
House of Delegates passed a bill to help
students get the best deal on textbooks.

House Bill 1726 requires public
colleges and universities to provide
students with textbook lists well before
classes start so that students can compare
prices with various book vendors to ﬁnd
the lowest prices.

The bill also prohibits professors
from accepting any type of monetary
payment from a publisher as an incentive
to order one of their textbooks.

W&L bookstore co-manager Bill
Becker said he always consults several
vendors to ﬁnd the lowest textbook prices.

The W&L bookstore makes very little

proﬁt, if any, from the sale of textbooks,
said Bill Becker.

W&L still uses a brick-and-mortar
store to sell textbooks to its students.
Operating costs for the store and the high
shipping costs of textbooks greatly reduce
any proﬁt that the bookstore would make

 

from textbook sales, said Bill Becker.
Becker’s goal is to bring the most
reasonable price to students. ’

Amaya Moure ’06, a sociology and
anthropology major, said she spends $350
a semester on books. “Textbooks are
completely overpriced,” said Moure. “It
seems wasteful to buy a book and then
have the professor assign one chapter to
read,” said Moure.

Moure estimated that her professors
assign only a small section of 25 percent
of her textbooks. “In general, most
professors don’t seem to be concerned
with the cost of textbooks,” said Moure.

However, Tyler Dickovick, a
politics professor at W&L, said he is
mindful of textbook prices. Consequently,
Dickovick said he tries to keep the books
for his classes at a reasonable price,
usually under $150 a semester.

In an effort to reduce textbook
prices, Bill Becker said he is trying to
increase the number of used textbooks that
he can offer to students every year. A used
textbook costs 25 percent less than a new
book.

Maureen Becker, co—manager of the
W&L bookstore, said the prices ‘offered
to students for their used books are based
on a sliding scale of ﬁve to 50 percent of

the new book price based on the condition
and demand of the book. The used books
are then re—sold for up to 75 percent of
their original value, said Maureen Becker.

Southern Virginia University has
been using an on—line textbook supply
company for six years. John McKenzie,
manager of the school store at SVU, said
the school switched to an on-line service
because the store was an expense to the
school.

E—campus, the school’s textbook
site, competes with Amazon and Barnes
and Noble to offer the lowest prices to
students.

However, McKenzie admits that on-
line textbook services are not ﬂawless.
Books do not always get to the students
in time for classes, and students who
register late or switch classes have to do
without books for a few days.

New students who are not aware of
SVU’s online textbook service are also at
a disadvantage, said McKenzie. In an
effort to reduce these problems, McKenzie
said he stocks 10 percent of the books for
all class offerings in the school store for
students that have problems with their
textbook orders.

Textbook lists for classes are
provided two months before the start of a

new term to provide students with ample
time to order their books, said McKenzie.
However, even with the on—line service,
about 20 percent of students buy their
textbooks from other sources.

The school encourages students to
buy their textbooks from E—campus
because the schoolcan hold E—campus
accountable for orders and help students"
when their orders are not correct or timely.
E-campus voluntarily upgrades shipping
for all orders that have not arrived by the
first day of classes, said McKenzie.

In addition, the school makes a ﬁve
percent proﬁt from all E—campus textbook
sales.

The market for textbooks is very
competitive and professors are under
constant pressure from publishers to order
new editions for their classes. A publisher
proﬁts once from a book and that’s when
it is sold new. Used book dealers proﬁt
from all future transactions.

At SVU, professors are cost-
conscious and only buy new editions that
have a significant difference, said
McKenzie.

The high cost of textbooks is not a
source of income for colleges. “Textbooks
are not a profit center for W&L,” said
Maureen Becker.

 

 

Students

compete in
Mock Trial

Two teams com-
pete in ﬁrst-time
event for W&L

ByKatherineSheIandCMsLaJdemim
A$T.NEWSEDfl'ORN\DE|3I'lU°rN-C1-IE:

This past weekend, W&L’s

Mock Trial team traveled to D.C. to

compete in a regional Mock Trial.

W&L sent two teams to the
competition.

This is the first year for W&L to

have a Mock Trial team, and W&L held

their own as they competed against I

more experienced teams such as UVA,
Maryland at College Park, and
Howard. Mock Trial’s team captains
are Aditya Kamath ’06 and Bill Larson
‘08, and they were led by Professor
Belmont of the law school and aided
by Kimberly Thomas ‘05L.

“I’m extremely proud,” Belmont
said. “I think they did an excellent
job.”

Team A was comprised of Bill
Larson ’08, Timothy Conway ‘O7,
Michael Julius ’06, Rebecca Lemoine
’08, Walker Humphrey ’07, and David
Mitchell ’O7.

Team B included Katie Weber
’07, Aditya Kamath ’06, Victoria
Kesselman ’07, Christine Giordano
’08, and Sonia Siu ’07, with Kathy
Garman ’08 subbing for Pearse
Davidson ’O7.

Twenty-eight teams participated
from the Mid-Atlantic region, the most
competitive region. Nine teams
advanced to the national level, and only
the top ten teams were ranked. Ranking
number one was Maryland at College
Park.

On Saturday, Team A competed
against William and Mary teams in both
rounds one and two. Team B went
against Mary Washington and
Maryland. On Sunday, Team B was
put against UVA, who later ranked
number ﬁve of the twenty eight, and
Team A went against Campbell.

Though W&L did not rank in the
ﬁnal top ten, members felt that they had
done well for their ﬁrst year. “The
Judge liked us," says Weber. “We
thought it was pretty balanced.” The
results of team b were not yet revealed
at the time of printing.

“We didn’t get a bid to nationals,
but we did surprisingly well for a ﬁrst
year program,” Kamath said.

Kamath wasn’t the only team
member who thought the event went
well.

“It was amazing,” said Sonia Siu
‘O7. “We didn’t know what to expect.
We went in and did our best and we
did much better than we expected.”

Siu also contributes the team’s
success to Professor Belmont who was
helping them along the whole way.

The teams have been preparing
for this event all year.

“We had worked all year 6 hours
a week practicing the case,” Siu said.

This past week, the students
participated in several intensive
practices lasting 9-12 hours.

Belmont said that she plans on
offering this class again next year. It is
a one credit class in both the fall and
the winter.

There will be two teams again
next year lead once again by Kamath
and Larson. The Mock Trial team
hopes to get more people involved in

the fall. The teams of 6-8 people will

be selected in the winter.

“It was amazing. We
didn’t know what to
expect. We went in
and did our best and
we did much better
tltczri we expected.”
SonlaSh1,‘07

First African Lit & cinema
panels held this weekend

Princeton professor delivers Keynote

Byctvlslardemim
EDITOR-N-GIEF

Presenters from 15 colleges and
universities from around the country will
be in Lexington March 4 and 5 for the first
Colloquium on African Literatures and
Cinemas and Contemporary Theories.

There will be ﬁve panel discussions
over the two days. Each panel will have
three speakers and one chair. The chair
will be a W&L professor.

One panel will be done entirely in
French.

Panel topics include, “The
Production of Postmodernism in African
Cinema,” “Foucault’s Theory of
Knowledge. and the African Novel,” and
“The Theoretical Implications of African-
Derived Musical Forms in Literature.”

The keynote address will be
delivered by Simon Gikandi, an English
professor at Princeton University.

Gikandi will be speaking on “Africa
and the Paradigms,” Friday at 7:30 in the
Washington Dining Room of Evans Hall.

Saturday evening in the Commons
Living Room, there will be an African
drum performance.

These drummers are mostly African
performers currently living in Atlanta.

It is not clear how often an African
Literature and Cinema colloquium will be

held at W&L in the future.

“I would love to do it again and as
frequently as possible,” Kamara said. “But
I don’t know about an annual event.”

The colloquium is sponsored by the
Class of 1965 Endowment for Excellence
in Teaching, the Global Stewardship
Program, the Center for International
Education, the Office of the Dean of
Students for Multi-Cultural Affairs, the
Office of the Dean of the College, the
Office of the Provost, the University
Lectures Funds, and the Department of
Romance Languages.

Professor Kamara also wished to
thank Lynn‘Bennett and the students of
his LIT 295 class who formed committees
to help bring the event to campus.

“I am very grateful for the support
from the University and professors,”
Kamara said.

“I couldn’t do it without the moral
support of my colleagues,” Karnara said.

The colloquium will kick off Friday
with a welcome at 9:30 a.m. by the
organizer of the event, Professor
Mohamed Karnara.

Also welcoming the guests will be
John Lambeth, chair of the Romance
Languages department and Provost
Thomas Williams.

The panel discussions, keynote
address, and drum performance are open
to the university community.

W&L’sfencing clubhostedahoumamentsaturday ingym. clbmeels

IVUVDAY, IEBRUAHY 28.2115

 

Mondayar1dWednesdayeveningsandSaturdaymorningsinﬂ'iegym.

Run for the Law Mar. 19

ByKaheSheIlnuu
STAFFWHTER '

The fourth Annual Run for The
Law, a 10K run and 5K walk sponsored
by Washington and Lee School of Law’s
PILSA, will have 150 community-
members pounding the pavement on
Saturday, March 19, 2005.
As they run through downtown,
VMI, and W & L, participants’ efforts will
benefit PILSA, the Public Interest Law
Students Association, who encourages law
graduates to take careers for governmental
or legal aid.

Registration forms for the race are
available at the PILSA website,
www.pilsa.wlu.edu. A $20 registration fee
includes a donation to PILSA as well as a
t-shirt, and a free pair of running shoes

from Graden Shoe Company will be
awarded to top male and female
competitors.

“This year’s race will generate
funds for W&L’s fledgling Loan
Repayment Assistance Program,” said
Nick Frazier, PILSA treasurer.”

The organization wants to increase
participation to allow for further advocacy
opportunities.

“Every year the club has attempted
to put on a race that is more enjoyable for
the runners and more successful for
everyone else involved,” said Frazier.

“Law students have made up the
majority of the participants, but we are
always attempting to broaden that. Not
just to the undergraduates and staff, but
to the larger community of area runners,
from Roanoke to Washington.”

Brilliant bunch brings boundless brains

Bysadwlmay

NEVVSEUTG3

The campus will be inundated with
fresh faces Tuesday as next year’s Honor
Scholars candidates arrive for three days
of interviews, open houses, and tours.

The Student Recruitment
Committee, headed by Nick Gorham ’05,
will usher the 111 high school seniors
around campus during their stay.
Committee members also read
applications, conduct their own

interviews, and turn in an evaluation of
the students with whom they come in
contact.

“Academically, on paper at least,
they’re the most outstanding bunch we’ve
ever had,” Gorham said.

The Admissions Ofﬁce selected 140
finalists for the 40 full scholarships
offered. Several finalists will also be
offered partial scholarships, the amounts
of which are determined by each fmalist’s
regional scholarships.

The competitors, who will sleep in
the dorms, will attend classes in the

mornings and discuss the school with
panels of student leaders and tour guides.
Later, each prospective student will
undergo three interviews: one with a
student, one with a faculty member, and
one with an admissions officer.

“W&L sort of takes a special
interest in their admissions process,”
Gorham said. “We’re not just looking for
kids who are really smart or have knockout
SAT scores...We want people who are
really going to do good things for the
university during their four years here.”

The interviewers seek students who

as Scholars

are passionate about the university and
academics. The real standouts are those
who seem destined to become active
community members—volunteers, dorm
counselors, student leaders, etc.

The most important question to ask,
Gorham said, is, “Once we offer this
person a full scholarship, will they really
dedicate themselves to paying that debt
back to the university?”

The freshman class entering next
fall will number approximately 450. 197
students have already been accepted by
Early Decision.

Ethics bowl team wins in Virginia compet

ByKalherineShel

A$T.l\£\NSE)|T0=l

On February 16, Leah Greenburg
’05, Susan Somers ’05, Sam Russell ’05,
Matthew Class ’05, and alternate Derrick
Barksdale ’06, competed in Virginia’s
Ethics Bowl Competition at Virginia
Wesleyan College.

They were led by Professor James
Mahon.

After defeating Virginia Wesleyan,
Hoﬂins, Lynchburg, and Randolph-Macon
Women’s College, the team went against
Randolph Macon College in the final
round. Washington and Lee’s team won
the 2005 Ethics Bowl Championship for

the first time in the six year history of the
competition.

“We prepared by meeting every
week in the first half of Winter Term,” said
Mahon.

“The trick is to have an argument
that will be comprehensive enough to deal
with any possible counter argument that
the other team will come up with. When
you have four people presenting one
argument, they must think as one mind,”
he said.

“There is no doubt about it,” adds
Mahon, “we really have multi-talented
students at W&L. They are extremely
intelligent, they are excellent public
speakers, and they are wonderfully
personable.”

 

 

itin Ver Fe break

    

Photo eourtesyProtessor Mahon.

Agnor"s Gun Wor'ks,LLC

“Gunsmithing”283 Edgars Way ~ Lexington, VA
24450
540-463-1934
www.ognor'sgunwor‘ks.com
TRANSFERS ~ SALES BLUING ~ .
NICKEL PLATING REPAIRS ON ALL TYPES OF
FIREARMS

#1 spring Break Ilaeations
caneun, lamaiea, Aeanuleo, Bahamas, 8.
Florida!

Best Parties. Best Hotels. Best Prices!
Iiroun nlseounts, 0r0anizers Travel Free!
space is limited! Book New 8. save!
1-000-234-1001

$450 Group Fundraiser
Scheduling Bonus-

4 hours of your group's time PLUS our free
(yes, free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1, 000-
$2, 000 in earnings for your group. Call TODAY
for a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-

sales fundraiser with CampusFundraiser.
Contact Canipusﬁundraiser‘, (888) 923-3238, or

 

 

 
 

J.

A

MUGDAY, FEBRUARY 28,ZX5

S110

rts

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0 3

THIS WEEK

WEﬂESDAY,MARCH2

-Baseball vs. Apprentice; 3200
-Women’s Tennis vs. Hollins; 4:00
-Women’s Lacrosse at L'burg; 4:00

TI'lBSDAY,MAHCH3
-Men’s Tennis vs. H-SC; 3:00 .

SATURDAY, MARCH5

-Women’s Tennis vs. WAC; 10:00
-Track at Va. Tech; 10:00

-Men’s Tennis vs. WAC; 10:00
-Baseball at E&H (DH); 1200
-Women’s Lacrosse vs. F&M; 1:00
-Men’s Lacrosse vs. Getty; 1:00

SATl.RDAY,MARCH5
-Men’s Tennis vs. Goucher; 12:00

SPORTS BRIEFS

._ w&LMen’ssw'nm'ngconpeies

at UGA Bulldog Invitational (2/26)
The Washington and Lee men’s
swimming team set two school
records on the first day of the
University of Georgia Bulldog
Invitational on Saturday afternoon in
Athens, Ga.

W&L Men’sTennis Fallsto
 &1

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis
team fell to fourth—ranked Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps in the consolation
round of the ITA Indoor National in
St. Peter, Minn. The Generals will
play Mary Washington in the seventh
place match..

W&LWomen’sTemisOpens

«, W|th9-0VVin0verE&H(2/26)

The Washington and Lee women’s

tennis team opened its spring season
with a 9-0 win over Emory & Henry
on Saturday afternoon in Emory, Va.

W&LRidingCompelesinTwo
EveI1lsOver1heWeekend (ﬂ)
The W&L riding team finished eighth
out of nine teams at the JMU/
Bridgewater Invitational on Saturday,
but recovered to place second out of
nine teams at the University of
Virginia Invitational on Sunday
afternoon. Junior Caitlin Lane
(Leesburg, Va./Poolesville (Md.))
finished as the high—point rider at the
Virginia Invitational

W&LWomen’s Basketballclaims
TwoAltConferenceSeleotions

Washington and Lee sophomore
center Jessica Hunsinger and junior
guard Louisa Feve were named to the
all-conference team which was
announced by the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference on Wednesday ‘
evening.

   
 
 

   

   

   
   
 

   
  
 

Nil}-’ilriit
it

' lilht ll
f

 
  

9/

Orchardside Yarn Shop
Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
Raphine, VA 24472
s4o34ss22o - 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lntemet accessibility made easy.

Callforworkshop&daminformation.

 

Halfway between Lexington and Staunton
On [-81 / I-64 at exit 205, Raohine 4mi1es west on
Route  Raphine Rand. Locatt-d on (1 working
farm that oﬁers "U-PICA" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

Tues - Sat 10:00 - 5:00, Wed tmtil 8:00

gum 

Baseball advances to 8-2

Bylllhshdﬁtle
wwavcamicn

The Washington and Lee Generals
baseball team was able to extend its record
to 8-2 Saturday afternoon by winning both
of their games against Mount Aloysius.

“We had talked about jumping out
to an early lead to keep the other team on
their heels,” said sophomore pitcher Adam
Kowalsky, “and we did that with the help
of McConnell’s homerun in the third
inning.” -
In the third inning, junior Taylor
McConnell hit a two-run homer off the left
ﬁeld foul post. After a double by Richard
Garland and a single by Jordan Wesley,

senior Adam Bullock hit a RBI double to
bring in Garland and advance Wesley who
then scored on a wild pitch.

Warren Hunter also hit an RBI
single in the inning.

With the help of the McConnell RBI
in the first inning, the Generals were able
to take a six-run lead after three innings.
Both McConnell and David Miller
finished the game 3-4 hitting.

Clayton Edwards also extended his
scoreless inning streak by allowing only
three hits over ﬁve innings, and striking
out 10 of the Mounties batters.

“We played an all-around good
game,” said Kowalsky. “Strong pitching,
solid defense and timely hitting.”

In the second game, the Mounties
were able to jump out to an early two-run
lead in the second inning after two RBI
singles.

Clayton Edwards, however, showed
his ability on the offensive side of the ball
too by cutting the lead in half with an RBI
single of his own in the bottom of the same
inning.

But it was in the bottom of the third
where the Generals were able to gain the
lead for good with a four run rally.
McConnell hit a ﬁelder’s choice RBI that
brought in Dave McKenzie. An error by
the Mounties third baseman allowed
Garland to reach first, and Miller also
scored on the play.

Zach Bausch then hit a RBI double,
and Richard Garland was able to score
off of another Mounties error.

When the inning was ﬁnally over,
there had been four runs, off of only three
hits, and three errors.

One run in each of the next two
innings put the game away for good.

Tim Livingston was able to pick up
his third win, giving up only two runs over
ﬁve innings and with only four strikeouts
during the game.

The Generals have 'started this
season off well with an 8-2 record and
hope to keep the momentum going.

The Generals’ next game is
Wednesday.

ByMashdRde
wwommnoa

This year’s intramural basketball
season started up last week. Basketball
has long been one of the most exciting
intramural events‘ of the year with all
13 fraternities competing, along with
teams from Beta, Faculty, SAO, and
three law teams.

The format of the season has
changed a lot from last year and has
extended the regular season to nine
games compared to last year’s five.
Teams have been divided up into two
brackets with the top eight of each
making the playoffs. The change has
been welcomed with open arms from
players.

While the championship is up for
grabs amongst a few teams, most teams
will just be playing for fun and points
in the season IM rankings.

In bracket A, the heavy favorite
this year is faculty, who are loaded with
ex-college basketball players including
Ryan Kadlubowski, who will provide
strong inside play. The rnen’s Varsity
Bastketball head coach, Adam
Hutchison, is also playing and provides

outside. Faculty had two very decisive
wins last week over SAE and Law.
Odds of winning: 2-1
’ Oneiteam that may provide an
upset over Faculty is KA. Four of KA’s
starting five (Mark Franceski, Ryan
Flynn, Max Barrett and Wes McAdams)
used to play Varsity Basketball for the
Generals. The team is very quick and
dominates inside play. Two wins this
week makes their odds of winning 4-1.
In Bracket 13, FIJI should make
the Final Four with Patrick Neuman,
Wes Kimrnel, and Chris Carainore.
Neuman also used to play for the
Generals and is able to ‘score not only

IM Basketbalj. begins

Faculty clear favorite in playoﬁs

a very pure shot, especially from the »

Kesysass/smapnozogeapnas

in the paint, but also step back past the
arc and drain the three. Kimmel and
Caramore will also provide a powerful
scoring force. Odds of winning: 4-1.

Phi Delt should atso arise out of
Bracket B into the Final Four. Coleman
Lyons and Palmer Dobbs also used to
play Varsity Basketball and will provide
the strongest guard playin the whole {M
league. Odds of Winning: 8-1.»

There are a few teams, however,
that might become bracket busters and
could end up stealing a spot from the
four favorites. In bracket B, both Beta
and PIKA have legitimate chances of
cracking the Final Four.

Beta will be led by Ryan “Flay”
Valeri and Matt Connolly. Fiav is a
slasher who will be tough to stop
offensively. Connelly has a very
consistent shot, especially from the
outside and will provide a good option
for a driving Valeii. . '

PIKA is led by AI. Manett who
can score from anywhere on the court.
Pierce and Fassio provide a lot of size
inside, and Pierce is able to step outside
the are and spread the defense. ‘Despite
a loss lastweek, PIKA has a chance to
squeak into the Final Four.

BracketA will be a little tougher .
to crack. The Law II and Law 311 teams
are the only ones that might be able to
talcehome a top two seed, but don’t hold _
your breath. .

Last season was full of upsets and
last second buzzer boaters including a
Lambda upset over Sigma Chi by a last
second three and an even more
impressive‘40 foot buzzer beater by Kyle
Wischer to advance Sigma Chi to the
Final Four over Law 111. 0

This season should be just as .
exciting with the new format and expect
to see physical play and some good
basketball. X 0 ' 1

Spring Break 2005

Travel with STS, America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas
and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for
group discounts. information/Reservations 1-800-
648-4849 or wvwv.ststrave|.com.

Women’s

£aLstoS

§’CHl'S|l\R}'~l\/ATKN

Freshman midfielder Elizabeth
Northfield (Arnold, Md./Broadneck)
scored off an assist from junior attacker
Becca Christoffersen (Vienna, Va./Jarnes
Madison) with 1:40 remaining to lift 11th-
ranked St. Mary’s to an 8-7 win over 20th-
ranked Washington and Lee in women’s
lacrosse action on Saturday afternoon at
Watt Field.

The Generals (0-1) led 7-6 with
8:49 remaining after an unassisted tally by
sophomore midﬁelder Mallory Lobisser
(Bainbridge Island, Wash./Lakeside).
However, the Seahawks tied the game just
1:31 later as junior midfielder Allyson
Sarigianis (Bel Air, Md./John Carroll)
scored on a free—position shot and setting
up Christoffersen’s game-winner.

W&L trailed 4-2 at the 29:06 mark
of the second half, but fought back with
three goals in a span of 2:26 to assume a
5-4 lead with 20:52 remaining. St. Mary’s

t. Marys

retaliated with a pair of goals at the 11:04
and 10:38 marks to reassume the lead,
before a pair of W&L goals gave the
Generals the lead entering the Seahawks
decisive run.

V W&L was led by senior midfielder
Kristen Brown (Baltimore, Md./
Catonsville) and sophomore attacker
Avery Lovejoy (Old Greenwich, Conn./
Greenwich) who scored two goals each.
Freshman Sarah Tilbor (West Simsbury,
Conn./Simsbury) stopped seven shots in
her first career game in goal.

Senior attacker Karli Libertini
(Baltimore, Md./Catonsville) led St.
Mary’s (1-0) with three goals. Sarigianis
and senior defender Jenn Nordling
(Sykesville, Md./South Carroll) both
notched two goals, while Christoffersen
added a pair of assists. Sophomore Melissa
Puzak (Arnold, Md./Broadneck) stopped
nine shots in goal. ,

Washington and Lee returns t
action on Wednesday as it travels to
Lynchburg College for a 4:00 pm contest.

 

Jon Rogers / Stat! Photographer

Despileahadeffon,WashingtonandLeeWomen’sLAXlosttoStMarys

Men’s LAX wins ﬁrst game
Defeats Washington College in Md.

Sporlsnelease

S7U¥l'SI\F3WlATU\!

Washington and Lee sophomore
goalie Chris Lalli (Cranbury, N.J./
Princeton) recorded 20 saves in leading
the eighth-ranked Generals to a 7-6 win
over ﬁfth—ranked Washington College in

, men’s lacrosse action on Saturday

afternoon in Chestertown, Md.

W&L (1-0) jumped out to a 6-2
halftime lead on the strength of two goals
and two assists from freshman attackman
Ned Rider (Manakin-Sabot, Va./
Collegiate) and a goal and an assist from
senior attackman Gavin Molinelli
(Northport, N.Y./Northport).

The Shoremen (0-1) scored a pair
of goals in the third period to climb to

LIFEGUARDS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier41 1 .com
1 877 SEE POOL

within 6-4 heading into the fourth period,
but W&L senior midfielder Pat Collins
(Marshfield, Mass./Marshﬁeld) scored an
unassisted tally at the 11:51 mark to give

the Generals a three-goal cushion.»

Washington ﬁred 12 shots at the Generals’
goal in the ﬁnal period, but Lalli stopped
10 of them in preserving the one-goal
victory.

Rider led W&L with two goals and
two assists, while Collins tallied two goals
and one assist. Molinelli added one goal
and one helper.

Steven Spivey led the Shoremen
with one goal and three assists, while
Andrew Ostrusky notched a pair of goals.

Washington and Lee returns to
action on Saturday as it hosts sixth-ranked
Gettysburg for a 1:00 pm contest.

 

  

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

arts&life

 

MG‘DAY,FEBFIUAHY 285,215

ByEniyEdwads

AHTS&lJFE EDITOR

I do believe I have seen it all. My
latest adventure in the Big Apple proved
that. V

In case you have been on Mars for
the past two weeks or so, you have seen
the front page of the New York Times or
the lead story on the 11 o’clock news.
And it has been orange... ehem, saffron.
Don’t get me wrong or anything. I would
like to think I bleed orange from
Tennessee pride. But Christo and Jeanne-
Claude went too far this time.

Late one night over Feb break, my
best friend and I were driving down Fifth
Avenue and noticed a ghastly array of
colored posts all over our beloved Central
Park.

My friend remarked, “They must
be getting ready for Fashion Week or
something.” It was the “or something.”

The next morning, we looked out
of our hotel room window overlooking
the Park, and there it was. The Gates, as
the Concierge told us. The Gates were

everywhere. A big, orange display of
modern art.

Personally, I think it looked like
the ﬂag corps of Tennessee’s marching
band at one of their football games. But
for heaven’s sake, dismiss the Gates as
an eyesore and you’re bound to get an
earful from art-lovers. I made that
mistake at the MoMA and thought that
the Chanel-clad socialite beside me in
the gallery was going to chop off my
head.

The Gates spread for 23 miles
throughout the trails of Central Park. I
think that they should have changed
Tavern on the Green’s name to “Tavem
on the Orange” until the exhibit closed
on the 27th. It would have made much
more sense. ‘

I tried to be open-minded about
this display of creativity. Really, I did. I
thought of the endorphins that my body
released when I looked at the mass of
orange. I thought of the painstaking work
that went into The Gates’ construction.
Then I thought about the cost.

Millions of dollars. 26 to be exact.
The doorman at the Ritz—Carlton told me

Too bad Jeanne—Claude looked better in
orange than the Park did.

  Tennessee gir reﬂects on The ates

it took over 25 years for Christo and his
wife to raise the money. To celebrate the
occasion, “Mrs. Christo” died her hair to
match her husband’s artwork. Too bad
she looked better in orange than the Park
did.

I would like to think I have a great
appreciation for art. I could spend hours
upon hours at the Musee d’Orsay or
London’s National Gallery. I have a
collection of art history books. But why
did Christo have to go so overboard? And
who in their right mind would have
donated to an art exhibit that consists of

Need a break? T ry- The Buena Vista

ByElyseN|oody

BEYCI\Dl~O.LYVi/(ID

Sometimes, winter just starts to
drag on. After a 90 degree February
Break, the snowstorm last week was
almost too much for me to handle.
Instead of buying myself a one-way ticket
back to Nicaragua, I decided to take a less
drastic stance against the miserable
conditions here in Lex.

In honor of the passing of Hunter
S. Thompson (his fabulous novel The
Rum Diaries is set nearby in Puerto Rico)
and warmer weather elsewhere, I rented
The Buena Vista Social Club. Everything
is sunnier and more colorful in Cuba. As
I hoped, it made me miss tropical
weather, but it made me feel just a little
bit better.

For those of you who love The Last
Waltz (it is a staple on car trips in my
family), The Buena Vista Social Club is
a similar documentary of the last concert
series of a group of legendary Cuban
musicians. These musicians were
brought together by Ry Cooder, a very
talented American recording artist; his
album Paradise and Lunch is definitely

worth checking out.

After recording a phenomenally
successful album with contributors such
as Ibrahim Ferrer, Ruben Gonzalez,
Manuel “Puntillita” Licea, Pio Leyva,
Barbarito Torres, Compay Segundo and
Omara Portuondo in 1997, Cooder
returned to Havana with his son Joachim
in 1998 to compile a documentary of the
album’s production.

Along with footage from studio
recordings, director Wim Wenders
combines musicians’ accounts of their
lives with clips of concerts at La Carre
in Amsterdam and Carnegie Hall in New
York to capture the spirit of the Cuban
music scene.

The Buena Vista Social Club is a
fascinating insight into the world of
traditional Cuban music, tinged with
hints of the repercussions of Fidel
Castro’s dictatorship of life in Cuba.

Tragically, many of these figures
were forgotten for over a decade.
Ibrahim Ferrer found work shining
shoes, and Ruben Gonzalez, who is quite
possibly one of the most inspired and
talented pianists of our time, lacked
access to a piano for several years before

Series bliss.

W8: L Bookstore Presents. .
Student Book of the Week

A weekly sure at tliooltstore and the Rina-Tum PM

To celebrate the beginning of Spring Training, this week's book is
Faithful, a fiowingiy detailed account of the historic 2004 Red Sox
season written by two of today’s most popular fiction writers (and
both huge Sox fans) Stephen King and Stewart O’Nan. The book
chronicles every day, from Spring Training to the post»Worid~

“Faithful is funny, smart and masterfully weii-written. This
combination of events you couidrft make up -- and great writers
who love the game, make this book a must for all readers."

~ Publisher's Weekly ‘

A’ great gift for yourself or any basebali fan!

Regularpric:-I $26.00
'l’|i.is xx-‘eck: $22.00

the album was produced.

The soundtrack captures these
musicians’ devotion to their craft and the
joy with which they approach their work.
This joy is contagious——the soundtrack
is perfect for dancing.

One aspect of the movie that I
found remarkable is the accessibility of
the musicians. The phenomenon of
celebrity is something that has always
fascinated me; as Walker Percy describes
in The Moviegoer, we tend to place movie
stars and musicians on another plane,
elevating them and their experiences
above our own.

These musicians walk down the
streets of Havana just like everyone else
and they approach their work with a sense
devotion and humility that is astonishing.

At one point, Ibrahim Ferrer offers
a hand to two men who are moving
furniture onto a truck while he recounts
his experiences as a boy outside Havana.
Another memqrable scene shows Ruben
Gonzalez playing the piano for a group
of young ballerinas who are jumping up
and down, laughing to the music.

In addition to the characters’
charisma, the music is absolutely

photo conesy oi hristojean neclaudanet

ﬂnGatesbﬁghhemddaiwsudbforsane,whibou1ersﬁuignﬂwasaIeyosore.

PVC pipe and cloth? Because that’s what
it is. 7500-ish orange shower curtains
that probably smell like mildew as a result
of the rain that fell on Valentine’s Day.
If given enough time, I could think of 26
million better ways to spend 26 million
dollars.

I was told that the exhibit would
bring in over 80 million dollars in
revenue to the City. Did you make your
contribution? Were you one of the lucky
ones to see this breathtaking display? If
not, be sure to study it in updated art
history books.

Social Club

phenomenal. I am buying the soundtrack
immediately. Ibrahim Ferrer has a
singular voice which ﬂoats over the
instruments with effortless richness and
dexterity. Also, he is a fabulous dancer
for an octogenarian; if this man can still
meringue, anyone can. His duet with
Omara Portuondo, “Veinte Anos,” has to
be one of the sexiest songs I’ve ever
heard.

The movie celebrates Cuban
music, and it presents it in such a way
that will have you dancing and laughing
along with the musicians. It simply
reflects their attitude towards music: the
movie captures their passion and
liveliness—their love of life and art.

In The Buena Vista Social Club,
Wim Wenders familiarizes his audiences
with the lives of a group of legendary
Cuban musicians, and, in doing so, he
makes the triumph of their recognition
toward the end of the 1990s an even
greater cause for celebrating their
achievements.

It is the perfect movie for a cold
and boring day, and the music will have
you dancing until Spring Term finally gets
here.

Chi-O and PIKA freshmen
provide entertainment for
local retirement home

BySoniaSiumdTyel-Iaeberie
$ 

Though many freshman girls were
anticipating who their big sister may be
and numerous guys were struggling
through the ﬁnal (and best?) few weeks
of pledgeship, the freshman classes of Pi
Kappa Alpha and Chi Omega somehow
managed to ﬁnd time to add a little variety
to some local elders’ lives. The
“Valentine’s Day Dance” was recently
held at Kendal, a local retirement home,
and the aforementioned pledge classes
were the guests of honor.

“The Valentine’s Dance at Kendal
is a lot of fun, and really makes the
residents happy,” said Melissa Clarke, Chi
Omega’s pledge educator. “It was just a
really fun way to do some community
service” added Lana Kang.

Card exchanges let each side know
just how happy the other was to be there.
“They were really excited about the
Valentine’s cards; one woman came up to
me several times thanking me for mine,”
said Kang. Such small acts of kindness on
the part of the Washington and Lee
students surely meant a great deal to the
residents, who probably missed earlier
Valentine’s days when they could really
cut the rug. But not all had’ been lost

apparently. Noted Clarke, “[Those in
attendance] performed several dances- the
Electric Slide, the Chicken Dance, and the
ever popular YMCA, and had a ‘dance
off.”’ Clarke however did not report who
was victorious in the dance-off, leaving
this observer only to think that Kendal
deﬁnitely brought its A game. Could the
residents have pulled off an upset or was
it simply a case of experience conquering
youth?

Either way, the satisfaction of the
evening was shared by both sides. Ms.
Kang explained, “It also made me feel
really good because the residents were
telling us that they never had events like
this and that they really appreciated our

efforts and that they wished they would

do more things like this.”

Commendations are deﬁnitely in
line for Chi-O and PIKA. When most of
us were probably stressing over rnidterrns,
they took the time to give back to an often
neglected community. Though the cliche
“giving back to the community” deﬁnitely
deserves its title, this is just what the two
organizations did. We salute the
organizations for letting those in
Lexington know, and even reminding a
few of us on campus, just how great a
resource the Washington and Lee student
body can be in “giving back.”

  

Prep offers
readers
insight into
boarding  
school life

ByNa:iaPii1z
STAFFWHTEH

If you’re looking for an
interesting and quick read, try Prep by
Curtis Sittenfeld. Though the title
suggests a superficial fashion
statement, the book is a poignant and
vivid exploration of the teenage years.

The main character, Lee, is a girl
who doesn’t quite ﬁt in at the private
boarding school she attends. Drawn to
Ault by the idea of academic
challenge, but mostly by the glossy
pictures of the students she sees in the
catalogue, she arrives to ﬁnd out its
not all she expected.

The book holds special interest
for readers who went to boarding
school. Ault, although the name has
been changed, is actually a real place.
Sittenfeld herself is a graduate of
Groton School.

Though she has changed the
name, she hasn’t changed much else
about the school. The speciﬁcity of
detail is staggering in this work; for
alumna, the force of the memories
almost distracts from the plot. But
even more compelling is Sittenfeld’s
understanding of the teenage psyche.

Lee feels isolated at Ault, partly
because she receives ﬁnancial aid, but
mostly because her classes are so
rigorous that she is only a mediocre
student. Lee struggles to ﬁt in amongst
students she perceives as completely
different from her, not only because
they come from wealthier families, but
because their academic success seems
effortless to her. Lee struggles in
everything, mostly due to her inability
to open up to anyone.

Consequently, Lee’s real
tragedy is that she lets these facts get
in the way of her enjoyment of both
the wonderful resources the school has
to offer and the friendships she could
be making.

When~Lee finally begins a
relationship with a boy she really
loves, she ruins it for herself by
projecting her low self—image onto
him. The novel is touching and almost
painful to read because anyone who
has been through the adolescent years
can identify with Lee’s inner
absorption and outer, protective
stances.

The story deals with the
tendency of adolescents to embrace
destructive self-images instead of
merely opening up and reaching out
to each other.

Lately, novels about
adolescence and girlhood have
become so bad and so meaningless
that they even encourage destructive
behavior. I’m thinking about works
like Gossip Girls and Pledged.
Curtis Sittenfeld’s novel is a
triumph, not only because the writing
is good, but because her depictions
of young people are accurate and
informative.

Any adult reading this novel can
better understand the teenage psyche
at its most confusing, and adolescents
can both empathize and learn from
example.

‘9'vb»V4£&TAtR%ZWX1b¥&¢JW“ﬂv2Ul0Yﬂh@iWnvM§¢ﬁ%’<NNWw.N0»%¥
~a»»s»wo-z cox-«»a.»»u

mmzsx z««wwi..«y*»~tau onnonatmw ¢l.mu<Inu«.aa»»n-

   

Ci.I¥‘i2i$§ siti':e.nfei..&

 

5»

i.

 

    
 
  
    
 
   
  
    

MONDAY, FEBRUARY28,2m5 THE RING-TUM PH| ' 5

TV" Paid Advertisement by Contact

Contact Presents Ralph Nader and
     more...

Contact is the student-run committee that brings speakers to campus. Don’t miss
these upcoming speeches!

A

 

I at

John Douglas

 Nader March 17'“, Commons Theater, 7:30 pm
h . John Dou Ias is a former FBI criminal profiler and
May 5 ’ Lee Chapel’ 7'30 pm was the mgdel tor the Scott Glenn character in The
Rail?“ Nader i3 e C0nSUrner eCiV0eeie, ieWYera Silence of the Lambs. He has hunted some of the
euinera and iW0'iirne Preeideniiai CanCiiCia’Ie- C0rne most notorious and sadistic criminals of our time:
near nirn Speak ebeui nie Peiiiieei ideei09Y end the Trailside Killer in San Francisco, the Atlanta
VieWS ebeui eerpereie Arneriee and Our Current child murderer, the Tylenol poisoner, the man who
Peiiiieei SYeiern On Me)’ 5"‘- hunted prostitutes for sport in the woods of Alaska,

and Seattle’s Green River killer, the case that nearly
ended his own life.

  Stephen . Duncan

  H '
March 17"’, Commons Theater, 7:30pm ans Florine

      
      
 

Stephen M. Duncan is the Director of the Institute Apr” 19m’ Commons Theater’ 7'30 pm _
fer Herneiend SeeUriiY Studies at The Naiienai Hans Florine won the first 16 speed climbing events
Defense University in F0ri iViCNair, Washington, that he entered. He has been the U.S. National

 
 

Xi D.C. He is/the author Of A War Of a Different Kind: Speed Climbing Champion eight times in the past

vs Military F0rCe and America? Search for HOITIG/and fifteen years, won the first World Speed Climbing

Security. Come here him speak about the aftermath Championship in 1991, and won gold in speed at
of September 11”‘ and how homeland security the first three ESPN X-Games. Come climb with
i policies have changed since that time. Florine and hear his story on April 19th_

 
      
      
     
      

 

 

6 0 THERNG-TUMPHI

IIKlDAY,F$RIJARY28,2(X5

IIIIIIIIIIIIS

 

STAFF EDITORIAL

Allow frats
to Open
Hell Week

Despite University efforts to
ensure a safe pledgeship, or new
member education period, for freshmen
this year, The Ring-tum Phi remains
concerned about Hell Week.

While no one advocates “hazing”
we are realistic enough to know that
pledges (new members?) will be
engaging in “bonding” activities this
week. We just want the danger and
risks to be minimized.

It’s not called Hell Week for
nothing, and listening to conversations
in the Commons (or a frat house, or
anywhere that frat boys are gathered)
will prove that plans for Hell Week are
alive and well, and have changed
dramatically in the last two years.

Open Hell Week. Two years ago
Dean Howison played basketball with
pledges. A pledge made ham
sandwiches outside Leybum. There
was a homeless guy outside the coop
and a kissing booth at the srat bridge.
These were all harmless and humorous
activities. Best of all, these harmless
activities consumed the vast majority
of the pledges’ time during Hell Week.
Because they were out making fools of
themselves playing army men in the D-
hall and on the front lawn, they could
not be in the country doing God—knows—
what.

There are different degrees of
hazing. Forcing pledges to drink,
branding them, and beating are all
horrible examples of hazing Forcing
guys to rap outside of the coop is a
much less strenuous and dangerous
form of hazing, if it is hazing at all.

An open Hell Week, in which we
acknowledge the fraternity activities,
would go a long way to ensuring safety.

UPS & DOWNS

Editors—in-Chief Erin and Chris give
you their take on what rose and fell
this week at W&L and around the
world. I

Ocwseouls.
The BTK serial killer is a Cub Scout
leader. Enough said.

0 Dessertmdalcohol
hduslries.

It’s Lent. All those pious Catholics

and Episcopalians are abstaining.

OFeb. Break

Though it’s difficult explaining to
people that we get a week off for
Washington’s birthday, Feb break is
definitely one of the most enjoyable
aspects of W&L.

Ooreek Life

(see front page story). Filling your
house with upperclassmen? Country
parties will be no more.

Onegistration

They still haven’t taken our advice
about registering for sections. They
(the MAN) need to listen to us. We're
wise.

0Lexington

Some weekends, it’s just a good idea
to hop in the car and drive to a real
college town. I recommend
Charlottesville.

0Montiee||o Road

So good they’re worth 4 hours of
driving in one weekend (or maybe
some of us just need to get a life).
Kudos to SAE for bringing them here
March 5.

 Committee

Yay, Ralph Nader. We’ve actually
heard of him.

Osororities

Nothing says love like all the goodies
srat girls give to their littles during
Little Sis week.

0Don Tequilas
Cheap margaritas on Wednesday
nights. That’s all I have to say.

Gay marriage

ban bad

forVA

Rights should be given, not take away

ByAmeF1'1el
THEeIGI=IcTu=IE

I love Virginia. I was born in
Richmond (though lived in Texas most of
my life) and think it is a beautiful place.
But, at the moment, I’m annoyed with the
state that I currently call home.

It has finally happened. It won’t
enter the state constitution unless it is
ratified by voters in the 2006 general
election, but a proposed constitutional
amendment to ban gay marriage recently
won near landslide approval in the General
Assembly, 79-17 in the House of
Delegates and 30-10 in the Senate.

So, even though gay marriage in the
state is already illegal, they want to make
it so that gay marriage could never be
legalized by the courts without yet another
amendment to the constitution.

What happened to letting things
change with the times? Why must a state
actively work to restrict the rights of a
group of its citizens? Which leads me to
my greatest question, something that has
confused me for years: what are people
so afraid of? For the gay marriage. ban
clearly relates to fear.

I understand that many people in the
United States, probably the majority, are
against gay marriage. Often, this has a
religious basis, for I hear again and again
that God ordained marriage to be between
“one man and one woman.”

From watching the news, you’d
think it must be one of George W. Bush’s
favorite phrases. Yet, under the separation
of church and state, religious conviction
should have nothing to do with legislation.

Everyone is free to their opinion.
You do not have to believe that marriage
between same—sex partners should be
legalized.

But the idea of a constitutional
amendment is abhorrent to me. Gay
couples probably take it as a slap in the

face, and with good reason. It is saying
that how they wish to live their life is so
aberrant and dangerous that their legally
recognized union must be prevented at all
costs.

So what is so dangerous about the
idea of two people that love each other
wanting to make a lifelong commitment
that is granted the same rights and
amenities as heterosexual married
couples?

Try as I might, I cannot see the
threat. Some cite lofty, vague ideas like it
endangering family values or making the
very institution of matrimony vulnerable.
But as James Carville recognized in his
Mock Convention Speech last year on our
campus, no threat is posed to his or any
other strong marriage by gays being
allowed to marry. Honestly, I cannot even
see the connection.

And as for family values, I don’t
know of any studies that have conclusively
(or even remotely) shown that children of
gay parents are in any way harmed. Quite
to the contrary, they are no less likely to
be heterosexually-oriented but are
benefited by less rigid expectations of
gender roles.

And while there are plenty of
children of heterosexual couples who are
parented disinterestedly, since homosexual
couples must go to special lengths to have
or receive a child, it is likely they will be
concerned and well-educated parents.

I can only hope that the voters will
put their biases aside and refuse to support
such an amendment. If the day is going to
come when same sex couples are allowed
to marry, then it should be allowed to
progress to that point naturally.

Exploited classes in our country
have enough working against them already
without the addition of insurmountable
obstacles.

Our country should be going.

forward, not backwards. Rights should be
given, not taken away!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RING-TUM PHI.

EDITORS-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDrrOR

ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR

ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
ARTS 8. LIFE EDITOR
PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITORS

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

QDPY EDITORS

‘ I

ROHAN POOJARA

ﬂIeFiiIg-nmPr1lspIbistIedMax1aysd.mgIheuIdeIgIad.etesdndyear
atWas|1'tIgIDrIandLeeUrIiveIsIly,L.e)ciI'IgtorI,\fIIg7'Iia
The!-‘mg-am’ Pr1”IsanIerTIberoﬂl*IePubk2rIoI1s' ' BoaId,butisotheIwise'ndependent


AIstbnIissiorIsmustbeemaIIed1ophI@IMu.eduorIIIItIeUniversityCentermai3oxby5p.m.
FridaytoappearinIheIoI|OwirIgI/IIeeI<‘se<:i1I'oIT.
7'heRhg-a.mPhireservesIhe Ii_ghttoecitsLbn1i$iorIsforoorItentarIdIerIgth.
LetteI'saI"IdoOIuImsdoI1Otr1eoessariyreﬂed1heopirIionOI
Adverﬁsingdoesnt1reﬂecttheopinimsofTheRhg-anIPfioritsstaII.
lltsriawspaperobseweswnanoarndefriﬁasdﬂadaridobsoaity.

TheFhg-umPhI'
Universitycommors Room.341
Wash'ngtona'IdLeeUriveIsity

Lex'ngon,VIrg‘1‘a24450
Telephone: (540)458406O
 Fax (540)458»4059
Enei:phI'@vvIIredI
Stbso-‘prion ra1e$40

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

MARSHALL RULE

SARAH MURRAY
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON

ANNE FINLEY

EMILY EDWARDS

CORBIN BLACKFORD
CHAD KIEWIET DE JONGE
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN Ll

AMANDA THOLKE
V 

W&L is the
best school in
the country

Pickle challenges anyone to prove
that any other school is better

ByTrentPick|e
PEXLEIIMN

Last weekend, some friends and
I took a trip all around Virginia and
North Carolina. During our tour, we
visited Mary Baldwin College,
University of Richmond, College of
William and Mary, North Carolina
State University, Elon University,
UNC-Chapel Hill, UNC—Greensboro,
and UNC-High Point. All of these
schools are different and unique in
there own way.

But in my humble opinion, what
I took from this trip, was an
appreciation for how blessed I am to
go to Washington and Lee University.

On Friday afternoon, our first
stop was Mary Baldwin. What struck
us the most odd was that it was Friday
afternoon and there was almost no one
outside! We went through the center
of campus and only saw one group of
girls.

They seemed pretty cool, but it
was ﬁve o’clock (cocktail hour) on a
warm, sunny Friday, and everyone else
was in their dorms or in the library!
Their environment is such that it
encourages good academics, but
discourages an active, open
community.

After driving and some dinner,
we arrived at the University of
Richmond at about 10:00. We drove
around the campus, which isn’t very
big, for a long time until we finally
found what resembled a party.

It was bunch of senior sorority
girls sitting in one girl’s dorm room.
They were very sociable and invited us
right in, but we could not help but
wonder why it was Friday and no one
was outside. As we were getting ready
to leave, we thanked them and asked,
“Are there any big parties going on
tonight?” They laughed and said
almost all of there parties are like.this,
ten to twenty people, with either almost
all girls or almosx all guys.

The student body lacks a school-
wide community, so they divide
themselves into tiny clicks and limit
themselves to that one group of friends.

At William and Mary, there was
one big party. It had potential to be a
good time, but university security was
everywhere because fraternities and
sororities don’t have houses; they just
live near each other in the dorms! The
party was so 'regimented that it was

almost impossible to have any fun. I
actually met one guy who asked me,
“Why would you guys visit this school.
It sucks! All the university lets us do
is study.”

Granted, they were all smart, but
what is the point of being smart if you
are a part of a closed community, which
does not understand how to share ideas
in an open and productive forum.

At NC State and UNC—Chapel
Hill, it was the exact opposite. At both
schools, on Saturday afternoon,
everyone was out and about. The
people seemed cool and interesting.

But neither school had a sense
of community. My friends say that they
can walk around their giant campuses
all day and not see anyone they know.

We reached Elon on Saturday
night. From my experience, it would
be the closest school socially to W&L.
The student body is smaller and with
more of a sense of community. They
have active social lives, a lot of which
stems from Greek organizations.

But to them, academics are a
joke. Something they do after tl1ey’re
done partying if they feel like it.

On Saturday night, 1 saw my
greatest fear of a college experienced
realized. At UNC-Greensboro and
UNC-High Point, everyone was in their
dorms. The boys were in their
fraternity houses or donns, and the girls
were in their sorority houses or dorms.
And no one really seemed like they
were having fun being at school. These
should be the best years of our lives,
and they are wasting their time in dorm
rooms!

This trip reminds me how
blessed I am to have the privilege to
go to Washington and Lee. We have a
community which is tight-knit and
supportive of each other, but also open
to new people, experiences, and ideas.
Our student body maintains a balance
which is unprecedented at other
schools.

We work hard in and out of class;
we are gifted athletically and
artistically; we conduct ourselves with
honor; and we know how to relax and
be sociable. This combination of
community, individual achievement,
and fun leads me to believe that
Washington and Lee University is the
best institution for higher learning in
thecountry.

And I challenge anyone to try to
prove me wrong.

‘ On Saturday night, I saw my greatest
fear of a college experienced realized. At
UNC—Greensboro and UNC-High Point,
everyone was in their dorms. The boys
were in their fraternity houses or dorms,
and the girls were in their sorority
houses or dorms. And no one really
seemed like they were having ﬁin being

at school.

Opinionated? Writeforthe Pm.

TheRing-tumPhiis lookingforne-wOpinionswriters.
CallexIIension4060oremailandeIsonc@w|u.edu

wrIIeaboutpoIiIics,sociaIissues,w&LorooIIegeIIIE

.74

1

3

X

 

   
   
   
  
   
   

  

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY28, 2135

“If you want to work professionally, you haveto

be able to drop the accent when it’s required.” ‘

— QUOTE OF THE WEEK|VIa1:'nChi|dets,who’s|eatirg apmjectI1oteachnla|Appalachian|<idsto|osethei'aeoer1ts.

THE RINGTUM PHI 0 7

US should lift ban
on drug imports

Leaders have not delivered on promises to reduce the
costs of prescription drugs over the past ﬁve years

ByCdeyAnderson

OPlNO\SE|3|TO4

Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana,
a moderate Democrat who continues to be
elected in a heavily Republican state,
spoke out last week against the Federal ban
on importation of Canadian prescription
drugs, an issue which his largely
conservative state supports him on.

The Federal government “has had
the ability to lower the prescription drug
cost for every person in America by as
much as 50 percent. In five years, they’ve
not delivered. Since they continue to sit
on the sidelines, states have no choice but
to do it for themselves,” he said.

The governor has a serious point.
As most Americans (and certainly all
insurance companies) know, costs for
prescription drugs have gone through the
roof in recent years, mostly due to
protectionist policies of American drug
developers and manufacturers.

The Bush administration has
continued this policy, even to the point of
actually banning the importation of
prescription drugs from abroad. The claim
is made that prescription drugs imported
from Canada, for instance, are unsafe, a

‘ gentle slap in the face of Canada’s

equivalent of the FDA. The implication
made by the administration is that only
drugs approved by America’s experts are
truly safe. A
Of course, this is nonsense; an equal
or greater proportion of drugs
manufactured in foreign lands (especially
quasi-socialist countries like Canada) are

“Congress ’s impartial budget experts have re-
peatedly tried to make their voices heard over
the political clamor, saying that not only are
Canadian drugs safe, legalization of their impor-
tation would have the net eﬁfect of cutting U.S.
prescription drug prices roughly in half”
 

completely safe compared to the same
proportion in America. Of course, this
quasi-socialist system has some eerie
disadvantages, and I do not want America
to adopt it, I am just noting that we should
probably not question the safety of such
drugs.

And indeed, we do not. Congress’s
impartial budget experts have repeatedly
tried to make their voices heard over the
political clamor, saying that not only are
Canadian drugs safe, legalization of their
importation would have the net effect of
cutting U.S. prescription drug prices
roughly in half. This legalization would
be a major break for U.S. citizens in need
of them, particularly our senior citizens,
who are having a rough time with social
security as it is.

The real issue here, of course, is the
proﬁt margin of U.S. drug companies, who
have a very strong lobbying presence in
Washington. Neither Congress nor the
White House has seen ﬁt to alter policy,
and doubtless many of importation’s
greatest opponents have seen healthy
contributions from domestic drug
company lobbies.

Yet, while it is important to
acknowledge that this semi-patronage
system has its place, it is not working for
us on this issue. As it is, northern states
are actually bussing citizens across the
border for the express purpose of
purchasing prescription drugs at a price
two-thirds lower than U.S. drugs.

This is abysmally wasteful and
inefficient- state tax money is going
straight from earners’ pockets to a policy
which beneﬁts mostly seniors, becoming
in effect a supplementary social security
tax. For states that do not share a border
with Canada, the problem is even worse.

But all this waste and these
needlessly high prices could be solved
with the stroke of a pen. It would cost
nothing to taxpayers to legalize
importation of prescription drugs and, in
fact, it would probably end up saving them
money.

Hospital maintenance costs would
go down, working seniors would be more
easily able to remain healthy and thus
productive, and if you yourself needed to
go to the local pharmacy to pick up
something your doctor prescribed, it
would be a permanent 50% off sale.

Promoting BRAVE Day of
Beauty and fashion show

Bycaissastipley

INTI-E|IO\S

This is the time when I shamelessly
get to use my column for self-promotion.
Ok, maybe it’s not exactly self-promotion,
but it is the promotion of something that
I’m involved in. And now for the
promoting. . .

Just in case you haven’t seen the
posters that are all over campus, Saturday,
March 5”‘ is the BRAVE Day of Beauty,
followed by the black-tie fashion show.
This project has been a collaboration of
many undergrad students, law students and
members of our community.

I have truly been surprised by how

many people have donated their time and
money to this project. BRAVE is a. local
organization which is working in
collaboration with Washington and Lee
and W&L Law to organize the two events.
There are students working on committees
for every part of the day of beauty, which
includes eyerything from fitness sessions
to spa-type treatments and will be held at
the sorority houses.

The black tie fashion show will be
held in Evan’s dining hall. Stores in
Charloitesville, Staunton, and Lexington
have all donated the clothes. Lexington’s
donors are Papagallos, Pumpkinseeds,
Alvin Dennis, Intimate U and Sunday’s
Child.

I really encourage everyone from
Washington and Lee and the community
to attend these events. The proceeds go to
ending domestic violence in our
community, so not only will you get to
have fun, but you’ll also be able to help
and contribute.

After all the work that organizers,
donors and our fellow students have put
into these events since long before
Christmas, any type of attendance would
be greatly appreciated.

However, the more people that take
a few minutes to attend even a couple of
the events would make all that time
worthwhile and, even better, helping the
community.

BRAVE

(BeaulyRevue
Againstviolent
Encomlers)

fashionshow
6:30to 10:30
Saturday, March 5.

Evans Dining Hall
BlackT|e
$20forarearesidents
$15withaW&LlD
$25l$20atthedoor

yauﬁruzlit.

QTEE1 $1‘

____  We have job opening: for earnp
and progrun
( , hnrloback riding, !uusa'.c.,
and mono).

board and salary provided.

counaalors

nature,

 

(:TE'CII.‘il'?Q'  dam twee.
mmnuizn cam? 3038

Looking war the best auzrnxnar ufymax
life? Easter Seals Virg'.ini,a. can help
We are ccmarrtitted to
helping people with dieabiliﬁee gain
 nm.
dedicated team this murmter at Camp

Easter Seals Virginia in Craig County.

intowmatiaxa. aocmact Deborah. Duet): at
dd.u.erk:@va.eas1errsaaaJa.aaru or at
(540) 86-95280. Visit our website to
learn. howgrcru can make an ditterenee.
wwnIr.va.easoersea1:a:..com:n

Jain our

loadnrs

Ronni,
For

Drinking story.
reﬂects bad  
journa ism

Dear Editor,

Being the former Editor in Chief
of The Trident, I’ve seen more bad
journalism than good journalism from
both publications over the years. But
Whitney Duffy’s news story titled,
“Underage drinking debate continues,”
took bad to a new level. It is the worst
piece of journalism I have seen
published in my four years, and to be
clear, I hold the editors more
responsible than the writer. Aside from
spotty punctuation, an irrelevant lede,
and enough conjunctions to overwhelm
William Faulkner, the article is riddled
with inaccuracies and lazy reporting.

First, the sourcing is lazy. The
article uses a grand total of eight
sources four freshmen (two
anonymous), two sophomores (both
anonymous), an EC representative
(anonymous), and President Burish’s
December 2004 letter. Again, this is a
simple story about underage drinking
and potential honor violations. The
writer was asking for qualitative
comments on lying to get wristbands.
And yet she could only find one EC
member willing to comment
(anonymously) and two people both
female freshmen to comment for the
record. No administration members,
seniors, juniors, males, or for that
matter, members of fraternities those
who supply the alcohol and wrist
bands. So please, instead of ending
with, “President Burish and the
Executive Committee were contacted
to provide comment for this article but
were unable to do so before our
deadline,” just write, “I wrote this three
hours before deadline.” As one who has
written many stories, I can assertively

say these people are not hard to contact.

Second, there exist widespread
inaccuracies. The idea of consequences
related to the Honor System is not
“new” it’s been debated since the
policy’s adoption. Example? The
Trident’s cover story of January 12,
2005, entitled “Honorable
Misrepresentation: Do fake IDs
contradict the Honor System?” Next,
I’m disappointed that the EC member
cited extensively declined to provide
their name not because they are
supposed to be the community’s
paradigm of virtue, but instead so I
can’t target all my energies to ensure
their defeat next month. You see, this
EC member is incompetent and/or a
liar. Check out this quote: “Underage
drinking has been an area that the
Executive Committee has traditionally
found to be irrelevant to the question
of honor.” What!?! I would love to see
Marie Trimble or Thomas Worthy, or
better yet, a senior KA on the record
saying that. Why? Because within this
student generation, the EC made it very
clear they consider underage means of
acquiring alcohol relevant to “the
question of honor.”

Although I’m sure you’ll receive
a letter from the EC informing you of

‘ their position not an inexperienced,

anonymous (and clearly
underclassman) membersopinion it '
doesn’t change that this article did
damage. It should never have been
published, and for this I place full
blame on the editors. The article was
profoundly ﬂawed, and you know it.

Sincerely,
Philip Walotsky ’05

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must
be e-mailed to phi@wlu.edu or in the University

Center mailbox by 5 p.m. Friday to appear in

the following week’s edition.
 

  

It’s not thatfar to
East Lexington. . .
where your FD ﬂowers await!

‘ 603 North Lee Highway
540.463.9841 5 the_jefferson@adelphia.net

wwwthejeffersonfloristandgarden .com

Easy Access oﬂ”Fu'rrs Mill! Road.

_ garden

 

  

8 0 THE RING-TUMPHI

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28,215

  

-There’s nothing like watching a
movie about prostitution with your
parents over Valentine’s Day Weekend.

-The sorority houses were pretty
empty over Feb break...so you may want
to watch where you sit... '

-It’s surprising the number of students
who stayed in Lex - so wild. Hey, I saw
you hanging out in the commons.

.Don’t ever go north for a Feb break
trip. The cold sucked.

-Want to hear a wild and crazy Feb
break story? I got ‘an e-mail from the
school saying that my graduation might
be at VMI! That is the stupidest idea
ever!

-It was nice to eat something I could
recognize over break.

-It was a great week to join the
Colonnade Club!

'Did any other frat have a security
guard glued to their television set?

-1 worked like crazy over Feb
break, does that count?

-I was so glad to get back. I really
missed the quality time I spend with
my pledges.

-Mexico. What more can I say?

INo one else was home. The
craziest thing I decided to do was put
extra marshmallows in my hot
chocolate.

ISpring athletes don’t get a Feb
break. I spent mine running.

-What happens in Atlanta, stays in
Atlanta. ,

-Why is everyone in Daytona Beach
better looking?

Next1irne’stopic:
I-lellweek
suggeslions

Bymashalnuie
F-'OTATOM°N

The other day, someone asked me
why I write a weekly article. I thought
about it for a while, and then I just told
him I didn’t know. They then proceeded
to tell me how they really enjoy my article,
and that I am much funnier as the Potato
Man than as Marshall.

It is not the first time I have heard
this comment. In fact, I hear it quite often.
I have been told “Oh, you’re the Potato
Man. I thought you’d be a lot cooler.”
And “Some of my friends think your
article’s funny, but I just don’t see it, but
you are deﬁnitely funnier in real life.” The
one thing I have yet to hear is, “You are
exactly as funny and cool as Ithought you
would be.”

So I thought about why I spend time
each week going through the writing
process. That’s when I realized I don’t do
it for me. I have much better things I could
be doing with my Sunday morning. . .like
dreaming of Ashley Judd in a pool of
chocolate pudding wrestling an
overweight midget. Rather, I write this
article for the ladies.

And I don’t just mean W&L ladies
either. I also mean W&L moms. As it
turns out, I have quite a following among
student’s moms that receive the Phi by
subscription. .

On Parent’s Weekend, I was
bombarded by moms telling me how much
they like my articles, and how I am so
adorable in person. ~

The look of the freshman girl when
their mom tells me that I am such an
intellectually and physically attractive man
and should start dating her daughter is
worth all the agony that goes into a weekly
column. That added to the irony that me

_and,,t)1<;_freshman have probably already
hooked up, ’a‘na*1r tharrnom knew the

details of that experience she would
probably slap me justbefore pressing
charges.

Speaking of mothers, my own
mother is a main reason that I write this
column. I think she takes solace in the
fact that for at least one day a week I am
up before noon doing something
productive. I

Since my only other extra curricular
activity is known as “frat stuff,” my mom

  This one’s
  for the

girls

likes that I am doing something
beneﬁcial to the school and community.
I won’t tell her that my column is
nowhere close to being beneﬁcial to the
school, and, as for the community of
Rockbridge County, most of them are
illiterate.

This brings me to the last group
of people that I write for: normal
college girls (well normal is a reach,
but let’s just ‘say normal W&L girls).

I recently found out the many
girls on the campus think I am a
chauvinist pig that just likes to bash
women in his articles. I won’t argue.
Luckily for my social life, not all girls
are so keen to the truth. The main
reason I write this article is for the
conversation starter.

Like Adam Sandler says in Big
Daddy, “initiating the conversation is
half the battle.” A typical talk with a
girl I had never met used to sound like
this before I started writing. .

Me: Hey baby, I am having a
tough time fighting off the urge to make
you the happiest woman on earth right
now.

Girl: Get away from me creep.

Me: Ah, come on. Be unique and
different and say yes.

Girl: How about I’ll be unique
and different by kneeing you in the
junk.

Me: Oh that wouldn’t be unique,
the last two girls have done that.

Not too smooth, I know. But
ever since I started writing the column,
the conversation goes like this:

Girl: Don’t I know you from
somewhere?

Me: I doubt it, I don’t like talking
to brunettes usually.

Girl: No‘, I do, aren’t you
Marshall that writes the article? Oh, I
just love your article. You are so hot
rightnow. Do you want to go back to
my place, my friend from Sweden is in
my room right now, and we do
everything together.

Ok, that last part doesn’t usually
happen, its usually something like:

Girl.‘ Aren’t you Marshall that
writes the article. Yourarticle is alright.
Nice meeting you, I should probably get
back to my boyfriend.

But, hey, "it’s a step in the right
direction.

 

Red bull...heroin for the sleep deprived

ByHig1Tmut

Tl-EFIS-Bill/|ﬁN

Throughout all our lives, there
comes a time when we have about 72
hours worth of things that need to be done
and only 24 hours to do them in. Sadly
enough, you can’t get that paper in, take
that exam, do all the super-secret stuff your
pledge master told you to do, and chat up
that cute girl by the Beirut table. In the
words of philosopher and Fisherman
relative (I think he was an in—law. . .distant)
Tupac Shakur, “Like a pimp trying to pull
a nun, ain‘t nuttin happening.” So what
is a young man or woman to do when they
find themselves in such a position? Don’t
try and be a hero, ask for help. And not
the kind of help you get from a loyal friend
who wants to help you get through tough
times. I’m talking about the help you get
from substance abuse. And what exactly
is this miracle drug? It’s not a drug
because the Fisherman believes you have
better ways to blow (pun intended) your
cash. It’s Red Bull, and its here to help
you out. Here is how it applies to you.
If you are a girl, Red Bull is
absolutely clutch in ﬁtting in all of those
things into your day and still being able to
go out that night and not look like a tired
wreck. Even if you don’t have a lot of
things to do that day, a very cool and trendy

Managing looking hot and still getting all of
your things done is a hard job (I know...I can’t
believe how good I look and how much I get
accomplished), and with Red Bull, there is help

TLOLU.

look for W&L girls at the gym is a Red
Bull and of course, pearls (any W&L girl
who wears pearls to the gym and can keep
a straight face is automatically my friend).
Managing looking hot and still getting all
of your things done is a hard job (I
know...I can’t believe how good I look
and how much I get accomplished), and
with Red Bull, there is help now.

If you are a freshman guy, Red Bull
is the only way you are going to make it.
Life sucks right now, and since all of your
friends are going through same thing, they
can’t take too much time to help you out.
Except Red Bull. Red Bull is always there
for you, much like reruns of The Fresh
Prince of Bel—Air. For me, I would have
failed out of this school long ago (last
terrn’s finals to be speciﬁc) if it weren’t
for this miracle drink. Trying to get
through pledgeship without Red Bull is
basically lying to yourself, and that’s an

HV, and you certainly don’t want that to
add to your life. It’s sold right there in the
commons, and it’s cheap so you have no
excuses not too.

If you are an upperclassman guy,
I’m sure there are reasons why you would
need Red Bull. If you ever run out of
creative ways to order your pledges
around. . .drink a Red Bull and something
will come to mind. If you are trying to get
your GPA up so you can get into grad
school, this is your solution.

In conclusion, there are times when
you are exhausted and really can’t make it
on your own (such as the current condition
I am in while writing this). It takes a strong
man to try and make it without any
help...but as I’ve learned, it also takes a
stupid man. So make friends with Red
Bull because two hours of sleep really
sucks unless you also have drank three Red
Bulls.

Palms boycott resumed by Keydets

boycott of the
Palms is back with
a vengeance, dear
readers. We stayed
away for a few
weeks at the
beginning of the
semester, but last
night I thought that
I would give our
1 o v e - h a t e
relationship another try after hearing tales
of new ownership and increased
hospitality. Bad idea. I am a simple man:
give me some music, some drinks and a
chair and I will be perfectly content for
the entire night. Apparently, this is too
much to ask. The Palms’ waitresses are
nice enough (though impossible to track
down) but my contention is with the

The Keydet -

vicious manager. She treats cadets like
dirt and I am sick and tired of it, frankly.
It would be one thing if she was indifferent
or even a little rude when the place is
packed, but her open and unadulterated
hostility has driven me over the edge.

Last night we decided that, after
dinner and good times at the always
enjoyable City Subs, it was time to imbibe
something with a little more bite. To the
Palms we went. I will preface my remarks
by stating that, in the manager’s defense,
we may have been a little loud and some
might say even a little obnoxious. But I
have a newsﬂash for you: it’s a freakin’
BAR. If you don’t want loud and
obnoxious people hanging around, open
a bed and breakfast.

So there we were, singing along to
the jukebox, occasionally tapping the table
with our gold paperweights a bit too

forcefully, when Satan-incarnate showed
up. Mind you, we are paying customers
in a BAR. She informs us in no uncertain
terms that we need to keep it down. Being
the polite gentlemen that we are, we
proceeded to kick it up a notch. Nothing
inappropriate or rude, just typical BAR
behavior. However, our version of
appropriate social conduct and hers
differed greatly.

We were not kicked out or even
asked to leave (because this would infringe
upon their probable 200% proﬁt margin)
but, once again, we were treated with utter
disdain. I felt like the relative that
everyone tolerates at Thanksgiving dinner
and talks about when he leaves. Was I
surprised? No. But you can bet that this
Keydet has stepped into the Palms for the
last time. Well, at least until I decide to
give it one more last chance.

Grown up world a scary place in Lex

Who wants to pick up Veemies over a $3 Miller anyway?

ByKrislineEa'ly

NILKABDC}-EESEGII

I’m a sophomore and that means .

that in a few short, erir long, weeks I have
to officially declare my major. That scares
me to death. It’s one of those “Uh, oh.
There really is a world outside Lexington,
and I really do have to venture out into it
sometime” type of things.

See, I am the female version of Peter
Pan. Petra Pan, perhaps? (Yes, that’s a real
name. And yes, that is some kick ass
alliteration.) I don’t want to grow up. I like
being nineteen.

Sure, it has its disadvantages, but
they are few and far between. Who wants
to go to The Palms anyway? I, for one, do
not want to pick up a VMI over three dollar
bottles of Miller. But that could just be
me...

The grown up world is scary. You
have to pay bills and file tax returns. You
have to worry about things like health
insurance and 40lK’s.

I would rather focus on deciding
whether to pay thirty dollars for a sweater
or springing an extra hundred for a sweater
that looks exactly the same. (We all know
by now where I stand on that one.)

Mono is just an example of the bad
aspects of being a grown up. You didn’t
see Peter Pan swapping spit with the
mermaids, right?

It feels good to feel alive, truly
alive. For the first time in weeks I have
energy. I don’t need twelve hours of sleep
and a cup of coffee to make it through

classes. And I have the energy to shop.

for that sweater!

Finally, I am starting to be myself
again. For a while there, I felt like a
zombie. And with my naturally pale

complexion, I’m sure I looked like one too.
(The little melanin I have bands together
to form freckles rather than evenly
distributing itself. But hey, freckles are
hott. So, that means, by proxy, I am too,
right?)

_ There was one thing I missed most
during my month or so of illness: exercise.
(Bet that surprises you, huh?) Yes, I am
that much of an endorphin junkie. See,
I’ve been working out ﬁve or six times a
week for years. Obviously it’s an essential
part of my life. In fact, when I’m on the
elliptical, I may just be at my most
euphoric state, especially when Eniinem
is on the radio and Law & Order is on the
TV.

I love the Fitness Center. Having to
walk by it on the way to my sorority house

was pure torture. I would look longingly.

through those giant windowpanes at the
svelte runners and the intent bikers, the
testosterone pumped studs lifting weights
and the ﬂexible yoga masters contorted in
strange and embarrassing positions, and I
would wish desperately to switch places
with any one of them.

I was actually jealous. Yes, I know,
I’m a regular green—eyed monster. Or blue
eyed monster. You get the point. My first
trip to the gym last week was seriously one
of the highlights of my life. Of course, I
thought I was going to die for the first ten
minutes, but you know the saying: no pain,
no gain.

I also missed seeing people. I realize
that it’s pretty sad when you list the gym
as a priority over contact with other human
beings, but that’s pretty much the way it
goes. Just kidding. Or am I?

But seriously, I spent way too much
time in my room reading for class,
watching chick ﬂicks and napping. There
were literally times when I found the

interior of Newcomb hall exciting. And
let’s face it, when that happens, you know
you’re in big trouble. I literally went days
without stepping inside the Marketplace,
because it took up too much energy to
maneuver a tray among the congestion. Of
course, I can’t say I suffered too much
from eating in my room. Spaghetti-O’s
have the d-hall beat.

Now that I am feeling better, I’m
starting to get back into my old routine, I
still need a bit more sleep and downtime
than usual. For example, it’s 10:19 pm and
I just yawned. That could be because this
article is extremely boring. And for that, I
apologize. Go ahead and yawn too. See if
I care!

However, despite the fact that I
can’t keep you entertained (Thanks for
bursting“ my bubble and hurting my
feelings!), more and more I am reverting
to my old habits...like that of insomnia.
For example, I have returned to waking
up at six in the morning to eat breakfast.
Yes, I am that weird.

Also, I am actually starting to enjoy

other’s company once again. If I can’t_

carry out my end of a conversation with
you, I don’t have mono to blame for it
anymore. It’s probably just that I find you
uninteresting. Just kidding again. Well,
maybe not. ..

I’m glad that my good ol’ immune
system has finally decided to buck up and
ﬁght those nasty germs. Being sick was
getting old. Of course, there’s one thing
I’ll miss about mono: I can’t let myself
have that extra bowl of ice cream as a
consolation for feeling like crap anymore.
However, now that I’m going to the gym
again...

Also, if anyone has a major
suggestion, be sure to let me know. I can’t
be Petra Pan forever. -

“V

 

