A

I32

#552.
V/
W‘:

7 -755

xi

. 7:’?
<:..- 2...

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

THE RINCi=TUM PHI.

MONDAY, MAY 9, 2005

BY THE STUDENTS

AND FOR THE

sruineurs SINCE

1897

/0 '.~‘
VOLUME Gil-‘H-I;-NUMBER 237  ;.

WHAT’ INSIDE.

I Baseball fans face an abrupt
and untimely end... to their favorite
season, that is. Check out page 2 for
more details.

HOT TICKET

   

-' I ..-a
Lady of the Rings
Winner of four Academy Awards this
year (Best Picture, Best Actress

' Hilary Swank, Best Supporting Actor

Morgan Freeman, and Best Director
cum Eastwood), “Million Dollar
Baby” comes to the Commons
theater on Mon. May 9 at 7 p.m., and
at 9:30 p.m. on Tues. May 10, Wed.
May 11, and Thurs. May 12.

Sex studies

The cast is great, the plot is
provocative. Liam Neeson, Laura
Linney, Chris O’Donnell, John
Lithgow, and Oliver Platt tell the
story of a man who led a cultural
revolution when he began studying
sex in a culture where it’s a quite
tabboo topic. “Kinsey” runs at 7:30
p.m. in the Commons theater on Fri.
May 13 and Sat. May 14.

NEW SERIES I

Burr Datz and the Ofﬁce of
Leadership Development is hosting a
Lessons in Leadership Series this
spring term. Captain Robert C.
Peniston, U.S. Navy (Ret.) will
reﬂect on his leadership Tuesday,
May 10. .

Tuesday, May 17 Jerry Darrell,
who has served at the Lexington/
Rockbridge County United Way
Chairperson and_ originated
LipSynch to beneﬁt SARAH will
speak.

Dr. Robert Sinskey, a 1943
Washington and Lee graduate and
pioneer in intraocular lens surgery
will speak May 22.

Karen Cohen, a professional
business and performance coach and
yoga teacher will conclude the series.

All of these seminars will take
place in Room 214 of the Elrod
Commons at 6:30.

SIMPLE LIFE

 

Stay grounded

So we’ve all heard the myth of
spring term, that it’s easy and you
sleep late and classes aren’t tough
in the least. Note our choice of

words: it’s a myth. Follow our tips
to keep your relaxing spring term
from becoming a cluttered mess of
over-commitment,

I Go running. It keeps your
natural endorphins high, increasing
mood and preparing your physique
for the beach this summer.

I Lots of reading for class?
Bring it outside and take advantage
of the gorgeous weather! And ﬁnd
something you love doing to bring
along as well, like a good book,
some mellow tunes on your iPod,
or a sketchbook. That way you
won’t get too bogged down in the
“supposed to.”

I Take it easy on the liver.
Hangovers certainly won’t help you
wake up feeling fresh and ready to
face a long and productive day.

I Go ahead and start spring
cleaning. You’ll feel better and
work more efﬁciently when you’re
organized.

N ader’s talk ﬁlls Lee Chapel  

Nader criticizes two-party system, apathy of young people, least—worst voting

By Erin Julius
EDITOR-|,N-CHIEF

Former Presidential nominee
and longtime activist Ralph Nader visited
Washington and Lee Thursday. Brought
in by Contact for a speaking fee of
$17,000, Nader opened his visit with a
meeting with students, dinner with Contact
and a press conference with local media.

Nader immediately localized his
visit by issuing a warning in his press
conference about two proposed nuclear
power plants in Virginia, near Lake Anna,
calling nuclear power, “a technology
fraught with exorbitant costs, uncertainties
and the potential of catastrophic risks.” '

He also said that such power plants
pose a national security risk, as they are
very vulnerable targets, and there is no

4 place to put the waste.

Nader concluded his warning about
nuclear power with a bit of humor, calling
nuclear energy, “a very very complicated
way to boil water.”

Later in the press conference,

L Nader implored Washington and Lee

alumnus Senator John Warner to play a
more important role in Congress, “Warner
knows the enormous waste and fraud. . .in
the budget,” he send. “He’s got to play a
much more important role. . .he’s near the
end of his career and that’s when he can
demonstrate his greatest courage,” Nader
said.
As for his own political career,
.Nader said it was too early to decide
whether or not he will run in the 2008
Presidential race, but said he is, “very
committed to trying to break up the two-
party duopoly. . .we need more voices and
, choices,” he said.
In Lee Chapel, Nader spoke to a
gathering of about 400 students,
professors and local citizens. Speaking

STEVEN MARINOS / PHOTO EDITOR

“They have become very good, these Democrats,
at electing very bad Republicans.”

 .

against the two-party system, Nader said,
“we have allowed our government to be
taken over more and more by large
multinational corporations. . .Mr. Bush has
41 corporate executives that have taken
high government posts.”
Nader, asked his audience to,
“look at what we"re losing” to the
corporations. He cited ﬁgures, saying that
though the economy has doubled and
production per worker has doubled, the
majority of workers are making less and
working longer hours than in 1973.
“I H He also asked his audience to
demand more from government. “We

have to raise our expectation
levels. . .become much more demanding of
our political representatives,” he said.
Nader also lamented the fact that young

people do not vote, saying he remembered

working hard to lower the voting age to
18, and the only reward was 30 percent
voter participation for that age level.

‘‘It’s time to make apathy
boring,” he said.

Poverty was a central point in
speech. Nader noted that child poverty
has risen for the past four to ﬁve years and
criticized the deﬁnition of poverty. “The

deﬁnition of poverty is ridiculous...it is .

 

19,000 for a family of four, it should be
40,000 for a family of four——look at the
cost of healthcare.”

Insitituting a standard process for
running for federal office was another
issue Nader emphasized. “If they think
you’re going to get any signiﬁcant number
of votes they tie you up in knots,” he said.
Nader then described obstacles to
Presidential candidacy he had
encountered, including the use of a
speciﬁc color paper and being forbidden
to obtain signatures for his petition in
public parks.

Circling back around to his
criticism of the two-party system, Nader
said currently people vote in a least—worst
situation. “We have to get over this idea
of least-worst voting,” he said. “It assues
that ever four years the parties will be
worse...the candidates take you for
granted.”

Nader then garnered laughs when
he called President Bush, “a corporation
disguised as a human being.”

Nader also criticized Democrats.
“The one thing they [Democrats] don’t
want is competition. That’s why they
focus on the Green Party challenge. . .they
have become very good, these Democrats,
at electing very bad Republicans.”

Discussing the war in Iraq at the
end of his speech, Nader again tied the
issue into criticism of the two-party
system, “in our country you can come in
second and still be our President——that’s
why we lecture the rest of the world about
democracy,” he said.

Nader addressed his last remarks
to the students in his audience. “You are
entering your most creative decade——this
is the decade you’re going to have a
breakthrough about how you’ll make your
mark. Don’t drift through your twenties——
look at them as precious years.”

STEVEN MAFIINOS / PHOTO EDITOR

The morale was high when W&L’s School of Law commenced
Saturday at 11 a.m. The Honorable Roger L. Gregory, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit was the speaker, marking the
School of Law’s 150th Commencement ceremony.

 

(DB2 promotes diversity

By Leah Kershaw
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

W&L’s newest fraternity, Phi Beta
Sigma Fraternity, Inc., is eager to get
involved in the Lexington community.

Doug Allen, the vice president of
W&L’s Beta Beta Nu chapter of Phi Beta
Sigma Fraternity, Inc said that one of the
chapter’s current goals is to “gain the
reputation as a fraternity that is involved
in the community.” The chapter plans to
participate in Nabors Service Day and
other local philanthropic events before the
end of the school year, said Allen.

Founded in 1914 at Howard
University, Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc.
is centered on the principles of
brotherhood, service and. scholarship.

Dean Futrell, W&L’s dean of
minority affairs, said the process of
bringing another fraternity to campus
began a year and a half ago. Last fall a
brother of Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc.
ask about the possibility of starting a
chapter at W&L, said Futrell.

Keith Cook, a member of Phi Beta

Sigma Fraternity, Inc., held an information
session for W&L men who might be
interested in joining the fraternity. All six
men who came to the information session
joined the fraternity, said Futrell.

The Beta Beta Nu chapter of Phi
Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. officially
announced its presence to the W&L
community with a Probate Show April 215‘.
The show, created by the new brothers,
featured stepping because every member_
of the chapter is involved with music.

Since the Probate show, the chapter
has been busy taking care of the
administrative duties that come with a new
chapter and making sure that all IFC
guidelines are being followed, said Allen.

Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc.
brings diversity to the fraternity system at
W&L, said Allen. “We promote diversity
by bringing a more diverse group of people
to the IFC,” said Allen.

Although it was founded as a
historically black fraternity, Phi Beta
Sigma Fraternity, Inc. welcomes people of
all races. “We want to get as many
interested pledges as possible,” said Allen.

Students speak: KEWL supports female faculty

Campus women’s group responds to last week’s faculty letter regarding hiring

To the University Community,

KEWL, Washington and Lee’s
student organization promoting female
leadership, would like to express our
support for the faculty position regarding
the “glass ceiling in W&L administration”.
Attending a school that purports to value
student input and leadership, we would
like to convey our concerns regarding the
discrimination experienced by women at
W&L in terms of our mission statement.

Knowledge. One of the most
important qualities of any effective leader
is the ability to compile and disseminate
knowledge freely. We feel that the current
administration has not done this. Students
generally know little about how the
adriiinistration is structured and what the
administration does. How many students
know that the search for the new Dean of
the College came down to Interim Dean
Jeanine Stewart and one other candidate?
How many students know the

qualifications of each candidate and how
the “winning” candidate was chosen‘?
Admittedly it is the students’ responsibility
to actively seek this information, but it also
the adrninistration’s duty to communicate
its practices more clearly. Members of
W&L’s student body need an
administration that they can trust to keep
them informed.

Empowering. An effective leader
empowers others. A Dean should inspire
faculty and students with his or her
willingness to listen to criticisms as well
as praise, and to work toward positive
change. The dean might not have a lot of
direct contact with students, but he or she
has a big inﬂuence on curriculum and on
faculty hiring and retention. Dean
Stewart’s esteem for the faculty and
students of this university fostered an
environment of empowerment and respect.

Members of W&L’s student body need an '

administration that empowers others.
Women. W&L is making great

strides. The class of 2006 was the first
class to reach 50% female enrollment.
There has been an increase in the hiring
of women and minority professors as well
as a diversification of the Student Life
staff, with Dean Watkins as head of
Student Life. However promising, we are
not yet ﬁnished. W&L still lags behind
other schools in the percentage of women
and minority faculty. Sadly, women have
not yet made it to the top of the staircase;
there are no women in permanent senior
positions in the W&L administration. A
little striking, isn’t it? Members of W&L’s
student body need an administration
composed of the best candidates for every
position, not just the best male candidates.

, Leaders. We call for the
administration to demonstrate their
leadership. We call for them to lead by
educating themselves on the issues
important to this campus, then dispersing
this knowledge and knowledge of the
activities of the administration to the

community at large. We call for them to
empower faculty and students to speak up
about controversial issues on campus and
for the administration to listen to those
voices. We call for them to take on the
“Statement of Diversity” adopted by the
Board of Trustees and welcome women
into the upper echelons of the
administration. Members of the student
body call for the administration of W&L
to lead.

We are not expecting diversity
overnight. Nonetheless we feel that the
rejection of Interim Dean Jeanine
Stewart’s candidacy for the position of
Dean of the College marks a large step
backward for Washington and Lee. We
ask that the policies and practices of the
administration be examined and held
accountable to the approved initiatives of
the Board, and that these practices reﬂect
the interests and input of the faculty and
students.

The Members of KEWL

\l'!\.”i'i"‘-‘J ‘l

  

2 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

SIl0llS

 

MONDAY. MAY 9. 2005

THIS WEEK

FRlDAY,MAY14
-Women’s Lax NCAA’s TBA

SATl.BDAY,MAY15
-Women’s Lax at NCAA’s TBA

SPORTS BRIEFS

W&LWomen’sTennlsDeleals
CMU, 5-0, in NCAA2nd Round
(5/3)

The third-ranked Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team defeated l5th- I
ranked Carnegie Mellon, 5-0, on
Sunday to advanced to the NCAA
Division III Nationals held at
Kalamazoo College on May 18-23.

W&L Men’sTennis Fallsto
Emory, 4-0 in NCAA2nd Round
(5/3)

The 13th-ranked Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team fell to second-
ranked Emory University, 4-0, on
Sunday in the second round of the
NCAA Division III Tournament

 

FourW&LBaseball Players
NamedtoAl|-ODACTa'n(5/4)
The Washington and Lee baseball
team had four players named to the
All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Team. Sophomore second
baseman David Miller (Oak Hill, Va./
Oakton) and sophomore designated
hitter Jordan Wesley (Winston-Salem,
N .C./R.J . Reynolds) earned first team
honors, while senior catcher Zach
Bausch (Vienna, Va./McLean) and
junior first baseman Taylor
McConnell (Vestal, N .Y.Nestal) were
named to the second team.

 

FourGeneralsNamedlsoAll-
ODAC Men’s LacrosseTeam (5/4)

Four members of the Washington and
Lee men’s lacrosse team have been
named to the All-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference team which was
released on Wednesday morning.

If you are
interested in
writing sports
for the Phi, email
Marshall Rule at

rulep@wlu.edu

Baseball season ends earl

Generals last two games cancelled due to weather, including Senior Nig t p

By Kathryn Krall
SENIOR SPORTS WRITER

After a long season full of dazzling
highlights and record-setting play, the
Washington and Lee baseball team ended
their season on a low note with the
cancellation of the last two games.

Because of a weather forecast that
threatened rain, the games were cancelled,
even though the days turned out to be ﬁne.

The team had looked forward to
competing against St. Mary’s and #5
ranked Mary Washington.

The elimination of these games
from the schedule was especially
disappointing to the seniors, who never
had Senior Night, or even got to play a
“last game.” .

_ Senior Chris Chaplin, said, “It’s
about the worst way I can think to end a
season and a career. We were all pumped
up to be playing the #5 team in the nation
and when we heard theircoach had

Second rounds

ByMarshall Rule

MANAGING EDITOR

Both General tennis teams
competed in the National Tournament this
weekend on Washington and Lee’s home
courts.

The women’s teams advanced to the
National Championship by defeating
twenty-fifth ranked Swarthmore 9-0 on
Saturday.

The third ranked Generalsthen
defeated Carnegie Mellon on Sunday 5-
O. The National Championship will be
held at Kalamazoo College in Michigan
on May 18-23.

The men’s team finished up their
season after falling to second ranked
Emory on Sunday. .

On Saturday, they were able to
defeat Carnegie Mellon in the first round
4-1. Top Generals players Paul McClure

cancelled it, and on such a nice day, we
were all shocked.”

Senior catcher Zach Bausch had a
feeling that the games were going to be
cancelled, “Part of me knew after
Wednesday that I had played my last
game”. .

Despite the disappointment of the
last games, the season was very
successful. The team posted an overall
record of 27 wins and 13 losses, recording
a new record for wins in a season. Their
achievements were due in part to the
efforts of six graduating seniors, each of
which played an essential role, whether it
was pitching, catching, fielding, or
providing leadership on and off the ﬁeld.

Adam Bullock, Warren Hunter,
Zack Bausch, Ken Hackman, Chris
Chaplin, and Brian Higgins have played
their final games for the Generals.

Brian Higgins reﬂected on what he
will miss about W&L baseball, “I’ll miss
just about everything about playing, but

of tennis ﬁnish

and David Shay won their matches against
Carnegie Mellon.

Emory won each of the three men’s
matches that were played on Sunday
defeating Jon Malooly 7-6, 6-0, Jordan
Eichenberger 6-3,6-2, and Charles
Anderson 6-1, 6-0.

In men’s doubles the duo of
McClure and Shay lost 8-1 while Jeff Lusk
and Eichenberger were defeated 8-5.

In women’s doubles matches
Lindsay Hagerman and Ginny Wortham
defeated Mona Iyer and of Carnegie
Mellon 8-1. X

 Meanwhile Emily Applegate and
Kristen McC1ung won their match 8-2,
and Lora Fanis and Leah Weston defeated
their opponents 8-4.

Only two women’s singles matches
were played. Applegate won her match
6-0,6-1.

Weston also won in straight sets
over her opponent 6-1, 6-0.

OFF TO THE TOURNAMEN

SP(F'|'SN=ORN|ATKX‘l

OnFnday,May14theGeneralsWornen’sLacrosseteamheadstotheNCAA

especially the team atmosphere. We were
lucky to have a very close team. The time
spent on the bus, in the locker room and
at team dinners was priceless.”

Chris Chaplin could not imagine
life without the sport: “The hardest thing
I think will be next year when spring rolls
around and for the first time in 15 years I
won’t be getting ready for‘ baseball.”

These players have given so much
of themselves to this sport, pouring in
hours and hours of hard work that has
taken a toll on their bodies.

Bausch said thatithere is one thing
that he will not miss: “The pain. Taking
stairs slowly because the cartilage in my
knees is wearing down. Wincing every
time my arm comes around to throw a ball.
Counting the welts on my arm from balls
in the dirt I stopped. I won’t miss any of
that.”

Chaplin remarked that although
baseball was not always easy, he would
miss the entire experience: “I think I’ll end

up missing even the down times.”

Although every athletic season is
full of ups and downs, the seniors of this
team worked hard to ensure that the
highlights far outnumbered the
disappointments. '

They provided an environment that
required hard work and serious
competition, but also fostered teamwork
and friendships.

Chris Chaplin says he will always
remember “having a great time playing
baseball here for four years because of the
atmosphere created by the coaches and
players— we were intense when we needed
to be but at the same time no one ever took
themselves too seriously- it was a great
time and a great experience.”

Even though they never got a Senior
Night, the underclassmen on the team, the
coach, and all W&L baseball fans
appreciate and admire the hard work,
competitiveness, and skill of the six
graduating players.

Four ax p ayers
make al —conference

Sports Release
SPORTS INFORMATION

Four members of the Washington
and Lee men’s lacrosse team have been
named to the All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference team which was released on
Wednesday morning.

Senior attackman Gavin Molinelli
(Northport, N .Y./Northport) and senior
defenseman Eric Koch (Boonton
Township, N.J./Mountain Lakes) were
both named to the first team, while senior
midfielder Adam Chesbrough (Haverford,
Pa./Haniton) and sophomore goalie Chris
Lalli (Cranbury, N.J./Princeton) were
named to the honorable mention squad.

Molinelli garnered first team
accolades for the second straight year after
leading the Generals in scoring with 32
points on 15 goals and 17 assists. An
Honorable Mention All-America selection
last season, Molinelli has totaled 159
career points on 66 goals and 93 assists.
His point total ranks 13th all-time at W&L,
while his assist total ranks sixth all-time.

Koch was named to the ﬁrst team
for the first time in his career after

receiving second team laurels a season
ago. He started all 14 games in 2005,
scoring one goal and picking up 21 ground
balls. For his career, he played in 51
games, tallying two goals and collecting
71 ground balls. More importantly, he has
been a mainstay on a W&L defensive
squad that has consistently ranked among
the top in Division H1 in scoring defense
during his career.

Chesbrough gamered honorable
mention honors as the team’s faceoff
specialist. He tallied two goals and one
assist, and won 114-of-196 (.582) faceoffs
in 2005. For his career, Chesbrough won
over 57 percent of his faceoffs, picked up
170 ground balls, and registered 10 points
on four goals and six assists.

Lalli was named to the honorable
mention squad in his ﬁrst season as a
starter. He started all 14 games in goal and
stopped 60.5 percent of shots faced, while
allowing an average of just 7.46 goals per
game.

Washington and Lee finished the
2005 campaign with a 9-5 overall record,
4-2 in the ODAC, and a No. 21 ranking in
Division IH.

Ernst &Young

Meet Employer Representatives

Dave Levinson ’00 and Scott Meister ‘O1

TUESDAY, MAY 10 .

Informal Question &Answer Session

2:00 — 4:00 pm

Elrod Commons Living Room
Talk to alumni who have “been there”.
Bring ‘your resume and ask questions about

the interviewing process.

E&Y Information Session 7:00 — 8:00 pm

Elrod Commons, Room 345
Learn about the exciting opportunities that

Ernst & Young has to offer

toumament. Led bysenior Kilt Murphey(above)and Freshman goaliesarah
‘ﬁlbortheGenerals hopeto oontinueto improveonlheiralready impressive14-3
reoord(8-Ointheoonference). Bydefeating Randolph Maoon6-5onApril24lhe
Ga1eralswereab|etowinmeirmirdsuaigmconfera1cechampbnship.A1ter
falling behindearly5-2 Washington and Leewasableto rally backtosoorefour
unanswered goals. Murphey hadthreegoals inlhegameandTilbortallied
sevensaves. 1'hemen’s lacrosseteamfelItoLynchburg10-6 intheODAC
tournament in their lastgame. meyﬁnishedtheseason 9-5.

BUSINESS ATTIRE
‘WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

CAREER©S-ERVICES

careers @ wlu.edu 45 8-8595 http://careers.wlu.edu 

 

5.

Y

(I

MONDAY,MAY 9, 2005

IIIIIIIIIIIIS

 

THE RING-TUM PHI 0

STAFF EDITORIAL

Contact: Where are
the female speakers?

Contact deserves praise for
bringing in a keynote speaker that
enthused students as much as Nader.
After the seventeen speakers Contact
brought in this year, however, one
criticism remains: where were the

. women?

The only female speaker

Contact participated in sponsoring was
Angela Davis, and Dean Futrell’s ofﬁce
footed most of that bill. It is absolutely
negligent that the committee charged
with bringing in well-known and

interesting speakers fails to bring in any

women. When its mission states that,
“Contact attempts to appeal to as many
segments of the student body as

possible” and yet they completely fail to

hire female speakers, Contact is not
fulﬁlling its duty. In fact, according to

its website, Contact has not brought in a

female speaker since 2000/2001.
For planning purposes, it

would be especially appropriate to bring

a female speaker to campus during the
month of March, which is Women’s
History Month.

We know that members of
Contact are aware of this lapse and
would like to sponsor female speakers,
but seem at a loss for possibilities.

We suggest a few possibilities

for female speakers here, and encourage

students to send their own suggestions
into Contact members. Possibilities

include: Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson

Christine Todd Whitman, Maya
Angelou, Senator Elizabeth Dole,
Senator Barbara Boxer, former Illinois
Senator Carol Moseley Braun, Paula
Zahn, Christine Amanpour or war
correspondent Lorna Tychostup,
Condoleezza Rice, Katie Couric, writer
Alice Walker, Olympian Dominique
Dawes, Jessica Lynch.

UPS & DOWNS

Opinions Editor Caley Anderson takes
a break from the Spring Term high life
long enough to hand down the rise and
fall of a whole lot of stuff

0 Texas

No offense, Texans, but your state
recently did something that has me
unhappy. httpf//www.live-shot.com/
species.shtrnl. That’s right, now you
can hunt animals from your very own
home using a turret you control
online! Thank heaven the great state
of California is here to protect us
from such tomfoolery.

0Texas (again)

And oh yeah, Texans, your legislature
just barmed “sexually suggestive”
cheerleading. I mean, a- They didn’t
define where that line even is, and b-
Doesn’t your legislature have better
things to do?

Oitmerican Public

New poll says that most Americans
believe that “generally speaking,”
Congresspeople act ethically. “Ha!
That’s so funny I forgot to laugh!
Excluding that first ‘ha.’‘’

0 Family Guy
Just while we’re on the topic.

0 Quotesfrom Wednesdayl
Thursdaynigitpariies

Me- “Rough night, huh?”
Anonymous- “When the band starts
playing at 3:30am, you know you’re
going to be in trouble.”

0Runaway Bride

Gotta suck to be the groom, too.

' 0 W&L“"l'raditions”

After June, there will only be one on-
campus class left that ate in Evans D-
Hall and was “hazed” as opposed to
“educated.” Good riddance.

0 KY Derby

That was AMAZING 50-1 and 72-1
horse ﬁnish first and second,
respectively. If you had conﬁdence in
Giacomo and Closing Argument,
respectively, and put down a $2 exacta
bet on them, well....the typical exacta
pays between $100-$200 for a $2 bet.
And this one was $9800.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSI’l'Y

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

MANAGING EDITOR
ASST. NEWS EDITOR
OPINIONS EDITOR
ASST. OPINIONS EDITOR
A$T.UFEEDITOR

PHOTO EDITOR

LAYOUT EDITOR

BUSINESS MANAGER
CIRCULATION DIRECTOR

QDPY EDITORS

  THE RING-TUM PHI.

ERIN ELIZABETH JULIUS

MARSHALL RULE
KATHERINE SHELL
CALEY ANDERSON
ANNE FINLEY
BREE MELTON
STEVEN MARINOS
EMILY HULEN

DAVID SEIFERT
YINYAN LI
ROHAN POOJARA

AMANDA THOLKE
VANESSA ARNESS
SARAH MURRAY

ﬂ'IeWIg~amH1ispIbisiIedMmdaysdIIIhgiteu1deIgradIaIesdndyear
atwasiingion and Lee University, Lexhglm, Wgnia.
77IeFi‘Ig4imPhisamerIberoi1TIeN|edaBoaId,wrid'IcanbeIead1edat
me<:iaboaId@v»III.ed.I,bIIt'soIhevwis=e'rIdeperIderIt '


Alistbniissiorsmtrstbee-maiedtI)phi@\~Iu.eduoriniI'ieUniversityCeniermaboxby5p.m.
Fridaytoappeariniheiollowirigiweeksediiori.
ﬂIeFIi1g-amﬂiresewesmerigmtoedtstbnissiasbroontemarxilengii.

' ~ -\_gI.et1ersandoo|unrIsdonotrIeoessaIi|yreﬂecttIIeopiI1ionc>f7'heFIhg-tImPhEdtoIiaIBoaId.
\~\_ Advertisingdoesnotreﬂediheopiniorisot Theﬂhg-IImPhiori1sstafi.

Tiiisriﬁapergbsewescxineritootindeﬁniiiasofﬂaelaridotasoerily.

UniversityConrnorsPoom.841 /
WasIi'IgtonandLeeUriveIsity
Lex‘ngIm,V|Ig'ia24450
TeIepmne:(54o)45s4oeo
Fax(54o)45e4os9
Ermi:pIi@Wu.ed.I
SIbscr‘piionrate$40

Faculty right- university
needs female leaders

BVVWIIHEVDIIII‘-‘V

$‘EIAlLY§EAIQ‘G

With the recent decision to hire
Hank Dobin as Dean of the College, a
great deal of discussion has been raised
about the representation of women in
Washington and Lee’s administration.
However, in the heat of debate, we
seem to have forgotten the underlying
principle we are ﬁghting for. Yes, there
is an under—representation of women
at the administrative level. Yes, this fact
does need to change, but this article
seeks to clarify why.

In America, we tend to make
the basic assumption that government
should be reﬂective of society. Thus,
we take this mentality with regards to
the governing of our school. As a result,
we view the under—representation or
complete lack of representation of
many demographics in the
administration to be unacceptable.
However, it must be clear that we do

not seek to create a perfect mirror‘

image administration, for that would
be impossible. What is needed is
simply an administration that is more
generally reﬂective of the student body
as a whole. That being said, omitting a
demographic that comprises
approximately 50% of the student body
is NOT reﬂective.

The justiﬁcation for this need
for change needs to be clariﬁed. Do not
assume that female student’s interests
will be better represented as a result of
increasing the number of women
administrators. University women are
far too diverse a group to paint as a
uniﬁed interest. The focus should not
be on the interests of women (or
minorities, for that matter), but rather

- on the principle that both should

possess equal access in theory and
equal representation in practice.

For a school that is
desperately trying to revamp its image
to be more “minority friendly,” there
is a great need to turn that vision
inward. It is an admirable, even vital,
goal to diversify our student body and
organizations, but it will never be
achieved as long as students must
answer to an administration that is not
itself diverse.

It seems that, in light of this,
minority students attracted to the
academic prestige of W&L would
seriously question the administration’s
depth of commitment to their success
and the continued diversiﬁcation of
W&L. Until we have more female and
minority administrators, and an
environment where faculty feel secure
signing their name to their opinion, the
university’s goal of diversity will only
be lip service.

The rules— sketchiness and
hook-ups at W&L deﬁned

aymarycnlds

II’SbOTYCU.IT‘SNE

Recently a lot of stuff has been
going on. No, I know that you know
that, because everybody does.
Everybody’s heard about everything
you could have heard about. The
appellation of “Washington and Lee
University” is a ﬂagrant misnomer. We
don’t go to college here. We go to a
second high school.

Earlier this year, some boy was
talking to his friend and lamenting a
situation he’d gotten himself into. By
hooking up with this one girl, he now
sees that he cannot hook up with any
of her friends. I think what he said was,
“lvIan, you ‘hook up with one girl in a
sorority and you’re done. You’re done
with that sorority, ‘cause it’s [all her

’ friends] . .  So by that logic, a boy has

approximately ﬁve total hook-ups in
his W&L career. That estimate to me
sounds a little low, so if you rework it,
maybe it’s one per pledge class per
sorority. That ups him to twenty, or 5 a
year. Not to be a pessimist, but that
sounds low to me too. And then factor
into that some more realism; we all
know that different frats hangout with
different srats. I’d say at most, a frat
will hang out with three srats. So there
we knock our number down to twelve
hook-ups per WLU boy, or 3 a year, or

_one a term. And that’s just blatantly

incorrect. Maybe it’s just Walker
Williams bringing that average down,
or maybe my friend was incorrect in
his generalization that one hook-up
kills your chances in the rest of that
srat/srat pledge class. So that leaves

' you with these hook-ups that overlap

and Intertwine and get incredibly
complicated as the years progress.
Everybody knows and accepts —
and hey, even expects — hook-ups to
happen with some regularity. And we
are a community that cares, so we all
want to know what our good friends
did this weekend — or in the case of
Spring Term, any day of the week. And
in my analysis of the players on the
ﬁeld, in my research for this article,
there are pros and cons to this closely
monitored life-style here in at Fishbowl
High...
The only pro I have is knowing
the background of every boy at my high
school since he was born (there’s a
good chance I know, or other people I
know that will tell me so that I will
know, his farni1y’s background and
what his mom did that may or may not

affect his relationships today). And
sure, that might be micromanaging a

I little bit, but there is certainly the

upshot that no one can get away with
dirty laundry for long. So if there’s a
kid that you’re considering for
whatever purpose, you know his
qualiﬁcations. It’s like he’s submitting
a resume. Well, if you recall, he hooked
up with that girl a couple weeks ago
and we all saw what happened to her.
Maybe I should steer clear. His
reputation will always precede him.
And the downside to this is that
this activity feels kind of sick. The fact
that I’m so up in everybody’s business,
that the whole world is, makes me a
little uncomfortable. It’s like reading
the tabloids about your friends. It’s just
weird. And not only that but if you
botch a weekend, if there’s a smear on

your resume, it will reﬂect poorly on,

you as an applicant; like going
bankrupt and falling victim to debt, a
desperate hookup will stick around far
longer than desired.

So the way I see it, there’s no
way to ﬁx this cess pool of a social
scene without transferring to like Tech
or something. And God knows none of
us would ever do that. No, instead we
can only remember my mother’s
“Newspaper Rule" — “everything you
do could be in the newspaper the next
day” (follow up: would you be
comfortable with that?) and live
accordingly. Our other option is to
ignore histories and pasts and stop
gossiping — an idea that I find
fantastical at best. But it is deﬁnitely
important to remember — write this
down — that the things you do tonight
will stick around tomorrow. Moral
hang—over’s bad, sure, but black spot
on resume is worse. As a good friend

_said_ to me yesterday, we go around

doing all this stuff and affecting each
other and weaving these dirty little
webs and you have to remember that.
You have to keep it in mind that your
actions DO and WILL affect other
people, and that you can’t just dismiss
your own transgressions with a smile,
because after the grace period, after
you’ve worn out your welcome and
compiled some signiﬁcant baggage
yourself, it’s going to get heavy enough
to slow you down and you'll start to
lose things, like friends, and people to
make out with. So write on your hand,
NEWSPAPER, because anything you
do, I could write about, and there it
would be, in the Phi on Monday.

Would you be comfortable with
that’? ' "

 

4 0 THE RING-TUM PHI

“The only thing better than a beer is two beers.

After two, it just gets really silly.”

-QUO'fEOFTHEWEEKmemeaumsmuayntg¢

MONDAY, MAY 9,‘ 2005

Anderson continues strategic plan review, ﬁnds the good in the task force reports

ByCdeyAnderson

|VCIE3ATE'SM.8&

In my last article, I discussed those
parts of the strategic plan I thought it
would be better off without. This week,
I’m going to talk about parts of the plan
that I thought were particularly good ideas.

The Law School’s task force came
up with the idea of creating a program to
help repay the loans to law graduates who
end up taking relatively low—paying public
interest jobs as public defenders, law
advisors for charitable organizations, and
so on. I like this idea, it’s an affirmative
statement that we’re not afraid to graduate
lawyers who don’t go on to make millions
of dollars with huge firms, and that we
care about contributing to public interest
law.

The C—Scho0l task force came up
with a few great ideas— one was the

Letter to the Editor

adoption of a New York spring term
program for business majors along the
lines of the Washington term that exists
for politics majors. The C-School is also
looking around for more space; among
their options are construction of a new
building, adding on to the current building,
or the annexation of the old co-op and
bookstore by the C—Scho0l. Ifd urge the
University to adopt this last option- while
it will only provide office space (being too
small for C-school labs), space currently
used in Huntley Hall for offices could
easily be repurposed at a low cost (at least
comparatively speaking when you
consider the costs of yet more new
construction).

The Academics task force came up
with the idea of renovation for the
Colonnade and the library. When
professors’ doors are falling off their

hinges due to termites, I can only say that
this idea is long overdue. More
importantly, the Academics people also
recommended a satellite campus in
Washington. This is simply a brilliant idea
that would give students and faculty a
greater chance at D.C. immersion while
also establishing a presence for the
University in the nation’s capital, a
presence that might get us some of that
sweet name recognition.

Student Affairs recommended
separate facilities for club and intramural
sports, facilities that would not be subject
to the “superior needs” of Division IH,
athletics. As the President of Club
Fencing, it would be impossible for me to
understate my appreciation of this
sentiment. Club sports and intramurals
have a place in our University just as
important as Division III teams.

The Communications task force,
which has a few questionable ideas, came
up with a decidedly non-questionable one
to “change the conversation around Robert
E. Lee.” Yes, the man was THE hero of
the Confederacy. That, however, is not
why his name is part of our University.
His name is on this University because of
his exceptional leadership and vision
during his years as President. I need not
remind most readers that he laid the
foundation of the honor system, created
the’ journalism school, and unified the
college with the law school. He was
responsible for turning W&L from just
another college into an exceptional one.
That is why it’s Washington and Lee, and
that is what we should tell people who ask.

The Athletics task force echoed the
idea of providing separate club and
intramural facilities, but they also thought

that the P.E. classes needed review,
including reducing the GE requirement for
Phys Ed. The typical academic class at
W&L (this is just based off my own
experience) meets for three or four hours
a week and is worth three credits. The
typical PE class at W&L (again, based on
my own experience) meets for two hours
a week and is worth one—ﬁfth of one credit.
PE takes up 66% of the time of a typical
academic class (before you count studying,
homework, etc.), yet is only worth 7.5%
of the credit. And to make it worse, you
HAVE to take all ﬁve PEs. Either scrap
the massive number of PE classes we have
to take for general education, or increase
the credit we get for it.

All in all, the strategic plan is mostly
full of solid ideas, but it’s still in need of
considerable review and debate.

Sophomore argues in defense of historically black greek organizations, points out many beneﬁts

Dear Editor,

Over the past several weeks, much
attention has been given to historically
Black Greek letter organizations having a
presence on campus.

Instead of being welcomed with
open arms and mutual respect, as I had
hoped, these organizations have been
faced with skepticism, and a lack of both
respect and understanding.

What is missing in virtually all of
the previously printed articles is factual
information about the very obvious
differences between traditional Greek
letter organizations and historically Black
ones.

Put simply, the reason historically
Black Greek letter organizations exist is
because African Americans were
prohibited from joining traditional
fraternities and sororities. With no other
resort, African Americans grouped
together and created their own Greek
system, based off of the traditional Greek
model but also combined with both
African and African American inﬂuences.

Historically Black Greek
intercollegiate fraternities and sororities
have been existence for almost 100 years,
with the oldest being Alpha Phi Alpha
Fraternity Incorporated which was
founded in 1906.

African Americans along with many
other ethnic groups are now accepted into
fraternities and sororities that have

traditionally been predominately White,
and those who choose to join enjoy their
membership in these organizations.
However, this does not mean that African
American students should be forced to
give up the Black Greek system that has
developed rich traditions and culture for
nearly a century.

An obvious difference between the
two Greek systems is the importance
community service plays for historically
Black Greek organizations.

Because the organizations were
formed during a time when Blacks were
being systematically disenfranchised, the
organizations also have a deep rooted
commitment to theuplifting of the Black
community.

Both of these goals are achieved a
variety of ways. Many have mentoring
programs, clothing, food and voter
registration drives, and scholarship
programs as well as other projects to meet
their community service requirements.

The organizations stress community
service, usually at the expense of social
events, which also explains why Black
Greek organizations are not preoccupied
with obtaining a communal house.

While Black Greek organizations
do have parties, dances, banquets and
other social events these are usually used
as a way to fundraise in order to fund the
organization’s community service
projects. The parties are quite different
from the ones held by other Greek

organizations. There is usually no alcohol
served as those in attendance usually
prefer dancing to drinking.

The social outlets also allow the
Black Greek organizations to show off
their hard work and dedication to their
organizations.

Another obvious difference of
historically Black Greek is the lack of a
rush process. V

The membership intake process, as
it is called, features a series of
informational meetings where attendees
are given an introduction to the speciﬁc
organization, its current members, as well
as information on the chapter’s programs
and various policies.

Because there is no rush process,
typically only those who are serious about
joining a particular Black Greek
organization show interest and attend the
informational meetings. Many of the
organizations require aspirants to have
obtained a certain number of college
credits before obtaining membership. This
results in a more dedicated membership
pool.

Membership is not limited to
undergraduate students. Graduate
students and adults are able to join
historically Black Greek organizations
through Alumnae Chapters. Because of
this, those who join historically Black

Greek organizations display a unique A

sense of dedication and are members for
life and upon death members obtain a

mons L
Fax— X4059

Write for the Phi!

The Phi is currently seek-
ing writers for news,
opinions, sports, and life.
Interested parties should
contact phi@Wlu.edu

Phi phone- X4060
Ofﬁce— Room 341, Com-

<I><I><I>

   

      
      
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 

   

to it
 
- J)” :_

  
  

Orchardside Yarn Shop

Knitting Specialty Shop
273 Raphine Road
. Raphine, VA 24472
540-348-5220 ° 1-877-NIT-YARN

Knitting cottage nestled along the creek
which carries a fabulous selection of basic
and novelty yams, kits, needles and
accessories. Customer service from start to
ﬁnish with your projects. Mail order and
lmemet accessibility made easy.

__Calforwor'kshop&dssinfonmtlon.

Halfway betwéeit lainglon and Staunton
On 181 / I-64 at exit 205. Raplline 4miIe.t west on
Route 606. Raphine R044 /M/fr/M a working
farm that aim "U-PICK" opportunities for fresh
fruit when in season.

'llres-Satl0:tl)-5:00,Weduntil8:00
m 

   

special posthumous status.

Historically Black Greek letter
organizations, called The Divine Nine, are
also deep rooted in tradition. Each
organization has their own signature
colors, symbols, calls, handshakes and
party walks, each having their own secret
meaning known only to members of that
particular organization.

The sense of tradition also
permeates the membership intake process
where a major component consists of
learning extensive history on the
organization. Each organization has
special ways of honoring their founders
and incorporators, as well has those who
have had major impacts on the
organization’s development.

During the intake process, members
are required to lmow and retain extensive
knowledge of their organization’s history.
These aspects attest to the high amount of
reverence members have for their
respective organizations.

Traditionally, historically Black_

Greek letter organizations also do not fall
under the jurisdiction of the IFC or
Panhellenic Council.

Instead, they follow the guidelines
set forth by the National Pan-Hellenic
Council. Formed in 1930, the NPHC is
composed of the nine Black fraternities
and sororities and according to its website
the organization “promotes interaction
through forums, meetings and other
mediums for the exchange of information

and engages in cooperative programming
and initiatives through various activities
and ftmctions.”

All of these reasons represent how
students could be more attracted to the
historically Black Greek system. “With its
dedication to community service, uplifting
the Black community, emphasis on
Brotherhood and Sisterhood, many of the
principles these organizations espouse are
ones that continue to attract Black students
on majority Black campuses and
predominately White ones alike. .

Upon gaining membership, people
are joined with Martin Luther King Jr,
W.E.B. DuBois, Hattie McDaniel, Medgar
Evers, and other prominent leaders within
the Black community who were also Black
Greeks. Instead of criticizing the
introduction of historically Black Greek
letter organizations on campus, we should
embrace the differences in philosophy
these organizations have.

Black Greeks are not a phenomenon
unique to Washington and Lee; rather the
allure of the Black Greek systems has, and
will continue, to attract members who seek
lifelong membership in an organization
dedicated to the betterment of all mankind.

Sincerely,
Marcas Banks, ‘07

life?
you ﬁnd it.

greater

(540) 864-5750.

Creating solutions, changing lives.
SUIVIIVIER CBIVIP IOBS

Looldng for the best surnrner of your
Easter Seals Virginia can help
We are committed to
helping people vvith disabilities gain
independence.
dedicated. tearn this surnrner at Caxnp
Easter Seals Virginia in Craig County.

We have job openings for camp
~—couEL§é1oi'§""’“ and —- program leaders
(aquatics. horseback riding, music.
nature. sports and more). Room,

board and salary provided.
infonnation, contact Deborah Duerk at
dduerk@va.ea.stersea1s.com
Visit our website to
learn how you can make a djﬂerence.
wvvvv.va.eastersea1s.com

‘ﬁr-A-2-e

Join out

For

01' at

 

MONDAY, MAY 9, 2005

THE RING-TUM PHI

summer madrai
collection.
Jacket $200,
skirt $92. ,

By Bree‘MeIton
ASSISTANT LIFE EDITOR

There I was dressed to the nines in
my black and white gown, standing on the
red carpet, invitation in hand, ready for
Dreaming and Dueling to begin.

It was a full house, and I know
everyone came to see me. I was the star of
the show after all! Nobody asked for my
autograph at the beginning of the show,
but that was alright. I knew that after they
watched the movie, I would be swarmed
by adoring fans. I wish it had occurred to
me to bring a security detail - people as
important as me need bodyguards. I’m
only kidding, of course.

I was dressed in formalwear, as were
many of the other attendees. It wasn’t
required, but many of us who were apart
of the movie thought it would be fun. How
many other occasions to you get to walk
down the red carpet in ball gown and tux?

The entrance to the commons
theatre was packed with people, Lexington
residents and students alike. There were a
couple of photographers snapping pictures
while the movie—goers buzzed in
anticipation.

Then the doors opened and we ﬁled
in. I wasn’t really sure what to expect as
many of the people who had worked on
the movie couldn’t tell me fully what it
was about. I knew that I was in it as a

' "cheerleader, but I didn’t know to what end.

So I waited.

By.Emily Hulen
LAYOUT EDITOR

I find every frat boy sporting it
around campus. I found it rampant in every

store during a recent shopping spree. After '

seeing all this, my mission became quite
clear: to discover why the infamous
madras plaid is making such an explosive
comeback this spring.

The earliest origins of this colorful
plaid can be traced back to the seventeenth
century in Madras, the capital of Tamil
Nadu in India. The city’s famous plaid
fabric, usually used for sarongs, kept their
trade industry aﬂoat when it was first a
British settlement.

But the trend resurfaced in full force
in the 1950s and 1960s, mainly in New
England. And now, the phenomenon has
once again swept the preps of the east
coast.

Prints are big this year, that’s quite
clear — it’s splashed all over Vogue and
Vanity Fair. But madras plaid? I can’t help
thinking that I would basically be donning

a patchwork quilt. That or President
Burish’s notorious jacket...

But Siobhan Gilbride, owner of our
very own Pumpkinseeds, reminds me that
it has very preppy spring look that tends
to look good on everyone.

Her appreciation for the print
shows. It has its own rack full of madras
pieces featured in her store on Main St.

You can also ﬁnd it in Lexington at
The College Town Shop, or elsewhere at
Gap, Ralph Lauren, Banana Republic,
Urban Outfitters, Eddie Bauer, and of
course, J. Crew. Even Oprah gave the print
a thumbs up.

And if seersucker has madeva big
comeback, why shouldn’t madras? It
seems these vintage, aH-American preppy
styles are back with a vengeance.

Paul Wasserman, the director of
merchandising for Haspel, told the
Associated Press that “I think once it
starts, it’s just going to take off. It’s
colorful, you can wear it with T—shirts,
jeans, khakis. It crosses over‘to many
occasions, and it’s very fresh. It hasn’t
been around since the ‘S05-‘60s so it’s
‘new’ to this generation.”

And maybe in 20 years, we’ll all
look back and say, “Oh my gosh, why was
I wearing that outrageous patchwork
quilt?” But hey, it’s a trend, along with
everything'else we’re.sporting these days;
we have to be forgiving.

And besides, give it a few more
years, and I’m betting it’ 11 be back in style.

JCFlEW.COM

Men’s rnadras sportcoat can be found at J. Crew for $228.

lack depth

W&L Theater Dept. ’s ﬁrst ever ﬁlm falls short of expectations

Professor Martinez, the director of
Dreaming and Dueling, climbed the stairs
to the podium and started the film, and
the audience grew quiet. The movie
opened to Pink Floyd playing while two
people clashed swords in a dreamlike
sequence. ’Dreaming while dueling, go
ﬁgure.

It turns out the main character, Joel,
played by Andrew West Lee, has this
fantasy that he’s an eighteenth century

So I came away from I
“Dreaming and Duelling”
wanting more...
m

French swordfighter named Valarian,
defending justice and avenging the honor
of ladies.

His best friend Eric, played by
Michael Wagoner, is in the fencing
program at school along with Joel, and
after an amazing sparring session, Joel
decides to reveal his fantasy to Eric. When
Eric learns of Joel’s secret fantasy, he
wants to be a part of it too.

The love interest of the film is
Louise, played by Sarah Orvin. She is a
beautiful girl disfigured by a purple
birthmark across her face. She is very self-
conscious about it, and yet still attracts the

attention of both Eric and Joel, as well as
jock Skelly, played by John Bamwell.

Over all, I felt the movie had great
potential. My little part as a cheerleader,
and it turns out eye candy, could have had
a little more air time, but I understand. Too
much of a goodthing is not always great.
The storyline was very interesting, but I
felt the length of the movie did not do the
character development justice. There were
some homosexual undertones and many
sexual innuendos. And I felt the ﬁnal ﬁght
scene was a little anticlimactic.

The acting was trite at times, but the
actors were trying to develop so much of
their characters and their relationships in
so short of time, I don’t see how it could
have been any other way.

So I came away from Dreaming and
Dueling wanting more. I wanted more
character development, especially from
Skelly, Louise, and Coach Thorpe. At one
point Coach Thorpe says to Joel, “I’ve
been there.” What was that about? There
was potential for an even deeper
connection between student and teacher, I
felt. And Skelly, coming and apologizing
shows he has so much more to him than
just being a jerk.

Then there are the relationships
between Louise and Eric and Eric and Joel.
They were so intense, and yet that couldn’t
really be explored in the short hour and a
half that the movie ran. And of course, I
would have liked to seen more of myself.
But hey, at least I’m in the credits!

LIFEGUARDIS/POOL MANAGERS

Now hiring for summer 2005 NoVa areas!
Competitive Pay! Call now or visit website!
www.premier411.com
1_877lSEE POOL

Warning

If you are under 30 or otherwise suffer
from severe Mass Media Syndrome
DO NOT read

Bob Fussell’s (W&L class of ‘64)
MY GREAT LIFE

wvvw.mygreatlife.net

without approval of your mental health provider

  

 

6 - THERNG-TUMPI-"ll

I .

word

 

MONDAY, MAY 9, 2005

By Bree Melton
B R E KA

For the many social events you‘

will have to attend while at W&L, Breka
would like to offer you some advice. First
off, the not so obvious Lee Chapel wear.
I mean, we though it was understood that

- ' guys wear coat and tie and the ladies wear

the equivalent.

But...this does not mean a Lilly
dress. Let’s face it, that’s Foxﬁelds and
lawn party gear and you know that. So
what is appropriate for Lee Chapel,
business meetings, and interviews?

There are these things
called...business clothes — they don’t
show your cleavage, most don’t involve
large ﬂower prints, and they can be
conveniently found at your local Ann

Taylor.

If all else fails, wear black pants and

a button down, and you should own at least

one suiting jacket — it is a staple. And just
a tip: pinstripe can be very slimming.

Now on a less serious note: how

do you read a girl’s agenda. when she’s

out? Is it in her eyes? Oh no, that’s not

the way. You’re not listening to what I

say. If you warma know what she’s gonna

I do, it’s in her clothes.

Yeah, that was cheesy, oh well. So
she told you it’s just a nice night out with
the girls? Enjoy the band, go home, watch
a movie, and go to bed, right? But she’s
in that sparkly top. . .the one that never
fails. . . .she’s got an entirely different
agenda in mind.

You wore a nice pair of jeans, a tank,
and some ﬂats that won’t be ruined by frat
sludge. She’s looking to get some tonight.

‘ And maybe not just on the dance ﬂoor.

Boys are attracted by the sparkly top, but

: then stick around when they notice she’s

got a short skirt and tall heels.
She knows what she’s doing. The

By Marshall Rule
THE POTATO MAN

First off this week, let me start by
giving a shout out to the best looking mom
on campus this weekend. May I just say

. _ it was a pleasure getting to know you and

I look forward to seeing you next time
you’re in town.

You may be a huge fan of mine, but
I am definitely your biggest admirer. The
MILF of the year award has now ofﬁcially
been claimed.

Speaking of mothers, I have learned
some valuable lessons about Mother’s Day

._.this year.

When I was little I used to cut up
little pieces of paper and write chores on
them to give to my mother. You know,
the whole “return this coupon to have me
do the dishes.” Or “this coupon is good
for one big bear hug.”

This gift worked so well that I
continued to do it for way too many years.
When I was eight or nine years old my

‘ mother thought it was cute. ‘But when I

continued doing it until I was 19 it got a
little old according to my mom.
So this year was the first time I

. have actually had to get her a real gift.

Being that Lexington is not exactly a
shopping metropolis, I was forced to be
creative in my gift this time around.

Of course I didn’t realize that

1 Mother’s Day was coming up until about

Wednesday, so I was a little pressed for
time. So I went down to the stores that
she drags me into when she visits me.
After living with her for 20 years, I figured
I would be able to get her something she
would like for the house.

Walking into the stores, it was
easy to ﬁnd many things that would have

I ' I ‘ worked perfectly. As I walked up to the

counter with an armful of little

Fashion this

skirt and heels accentuate her legs, the
push—up bra helps to draw attention to
her...other assets.

But if you do chose this
particular agenda and are successful, how
appropriate are the stilettos the next
morning? You could opt for borrowing his
clothes, but the stilettos make it really
obvious that you’re not just an early
morning jogger.

You could just wear the clothes from
the night before home, but — well, what
seemed like a good choice the night before
(and hey! it worked, maybe it was a good
choice!) now just makes you look like a
hooker.

So maybe you should, instead of
going home with the kid, give him your
number, get his, and plan for a date. Yes a
date.

So what do you wear to said
date? Something you feel comfortable in
and in which you can be yourself. Again,
cleavage is probably not a wise choice, but
do wear a ﬂattering neckline.

Now if you decide you want to take
advantage of the GRC’s date night next
week (ahem, shameless plug) and you
should, where are you two going on this
date?

If it’s Wilson Walker or the
Sheridan, I would suggest wearing a skirt.
Perhaps something_ just above the knees
and a pair of low heels.

If you’re just going to Sweet Things
and the movie, maybe you can get away
with a pair of pants or some nice jeans.
And please make sure your shirt ﬁts. This
means no midriff baring, please. You’re
on a nice respectable date, you should look
the part.

What it all comes down’ to is
what do you want to achieve in life? Do
you want to be a business woman or a
business wife? There’s a lot to be said by
what one wears. So make your choice, set
your goals, and dress the part.

I Another cheap present for
  Mother’s Day from Marshall

knickknacks I was pretty happy with my
selection.

That was, of course, until, the
store owner told me the total. One hundred
and fifty dollars was a little too much for a
bunch of small items, especially when I
had about 15 dollars to my name at the
ﬁme. .

So I slowly eliminated one item
at a time and the total slowly dwindled.
One by one another item was eliminated
until there was only one left, and I realized
that I might be a little too poor to shop in
Lexington. -
I left the boutique with empty
hands and began to brainstorm ideas that I
might be able to afford. Then the words
that every student loves to hear rang
through my head. . .”Swipe it home.”

I quickly found a jacket that she
had been asking me to get her for a long
time and realized I should probably get a
card to go along with it. Yes, I am so cheap
I didn’t even buy the card. Iswiped it
home.

Well, at least I paid for shipping
ri t? Wrong. Thanks to the good folks
at the bookstore they offered to not only
gift wrap it for me, but also toss it in the
mail. So my total cost for this year’s'
Mother’s Day gift.... 37 cents (I mailed
the card separately).

Well, at least it got there in time
right? Wrong again. It seems that it takes

longer than two days to ship something I

across the country.

I guess the only thing that was
good about my present was that it didn’t
involve coupons.

So, Mom, since you are going to
end up paying for your own present and
it’s not even going to get there in time,‘ I
am using my article to wish you Happy
Mother’s Day.

Yes, I have successfully found a
different way to give you another free gift.

Thanks to the».g"ood /folks at the bookstore they‘
oﬁered to not only gift wrap it for me, but also
toss it in the mail. So my total cost for this
year’s Mother’s Day gift. 7 cents

lt’s Pittsnogle time

West Virginia baller Kevin Pittsnogle is ﬁxture of America

ByHughTrout
THE FISHERMAN

It is no secret that this country is
going through some tough times right
now. In fact, it has been a few years of
tough times and as a concerned citizen
I feel obligated to offer a suggestion as
to what could restore the good times
and prosperity we knew in the 90s
(man. . .those Shaq movies were good).

While some may feel that we
must focus on the economy, and others
on social issues, I believe the answer
to all of America’s problems is actually
one man.

Who is this amazing soul who
could heal a nation and solve the issues
that concern every day Americans?
Kevin Pittsnogle. For those who don’t
know who this amazing maverick is,
he is a 6’ll” basketball player from
West Virginia. And his last name is
Pittsnogle. ‘

Now, many may agree that
Pittsnogle is a great guy but for the
wrong reasons. Some will rightly point
out that he took his team much farther
than anyone ever thought they would
go, and drained some nice threes along
the way. This is all true, however,
irrelevant to the discussion at hand.

I There is a more nuanced and
sophisticated point to be made in the

case for him: his last name is Pittsnogle.
That’s amazing. But how can Pittsnogle
help the U.S.A. if he is only some college
player from West Virginia?

Well, turns out he isn’t going to be
one for long. In an act that has the heavens
crying with sheer joy and euphoria, Kevin
Pittsnogle declared for the NBA draft. A
development of this magnitude hasn’t
graced the human race since the discovery
of penicillin.

We will now be able to watch
Pittsnogle in the comfort of our own
homes throughout the entire NBA season.
But more importantly,

I hope, Pittsnogle will enter the
American vocabulary as an everyday
word. The connotations to such a word
are truly endless. For example, a nice shot
on the beer pong table could lead one to
trash talk: “Man, I just Pittsnogled all over
you on that one man”. Or, “I just went
Pittsnogle up in this right therr”.

It could be used as yet another
euphemism for sexual activity: “yeah,
things were going good and then her dad
called and she got all upset over

something. It sucks, too, cause I’m pretty
sure I was gonna get some Pittsnogle that
night”.

It could be a really cool dance like
the raise the roof. Think of it: “yeah man,
we were in this random club and it was so
funny cause Jon was with this really hot
girl and I looked at him and he started
doing the Pittsnogle and I was laughing
‘pretty har ”.

It could be one of those words that
doesn’t really having a definition but in
the context of a conversation everyone
would know what you meant.

“Hey, I think you got a little
Pittsnogle on your tie, there” or “I hate it
when it gets all gray and rainy and
Pittsnogle like this in Lexington”.

A word like Pittsnogle could unite
the American people and help remind us
that while we may have one political
position or another, we all can unite over
the common goal of patriotism and
working to improve this great land of ours.

That, and having fun saying
Pittsnogle.

Who is this amazing soul who could heal a
nation and solve the issues that concern
. every day Americans? Kevin Pittsnogle.

HIT.

hat a great place

     

Kristine explains for the last time why she picked W&L

By Kristine Early
THE MILK AND CHEESE GIRL

Because I’ve had to justify
my decision to transfer to Washington
and Lee 1,329 times in the last nine
months (just an approximation), I’ve
had plenty of reason to evaluate just
what makes our school different and
special.

There are a wide variety of things
that separate our wonderful little
university from Amherst and Bates,
from Vanderbilt and Morehouse: the
Honor Code, the exam policy, the
excellent faculty, the Speaking
Tradition (or the myth that is the
Speaking Tradition), the lovely, artsy
town of Lexington, the horse and
carriage tours that pass by the
Colonnade, the close proximity to VMI,
spring term and tadah. . .the DRAMA.

Forget “The Bold and the
Beautiful.” Don’t bother to tune into
“The Young and the Restless.”

Just show up at Washington and
Lee from 7 p.m. to 4 a.m. any Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, or Saturday for
love, lust, betrayal, and hot, steamy
scenes of passion.

You’ll laugh. You’ll cry. You’ll
pass out under the beer pong table.

Yes, what separates W & L from
William and Mary and from Bowdon,

ladies and gents, is excitement. I

True, there is little to a town with a
population of 6,000: two bars, a few
restaurants appropriate for rush dates and
quick Sunday lunches and some quaint
little shops where one can find X—mas gifts
for Ma and Grams. (Oh, and don’t forget
Wal to the Man. You can frolic through
the aisles for hours if in desperate need of
amusement.)

But despite the fact that LexVegas
isn ’t Las Vegas, we still manage to have a
good time. See, we’re industrious like that.
Look at our SAT scores.

If we can master analogies, surely
we can entertain ourselves. Especially if
handed a case of Natty Lights.

I’ve analyzed the social scene
fairly closely (See, I’m really doing
research when I go out, mommy.) and I
have come to a conclusion: anything and
everything is possible when the lights are
low and the music is pumping.

And that “anything and everything”.
will be the topic of next moming’s 9 a.m.
class. We here at W & L direct, star in,
and produce our own soap opera. And then
we present reruns the next morning.

Think about it. We have fantastic
wardrobes. Our hair is perfectly coifed.
(Coifed! Such a great word! I bet it was
on the SAT.)

Our nails are professionally done.
And everyone has kissed everyone else.
Clearly, we deserve a spot on daytime TV.

Heck, I think if we hire a good
camera crew (Want to strike a deal, Party
Pics?), we’d be up for a Golden Globe.
And hey, I doubt the students at many other
colleges could afford Armani and Versace
to wear down the red carpet.

Yes, I love W & L. The rumor mill
has made us all unfortunate victims at one
time or another. But when the gossip isn’t
mean—spirited and rather the “Well, he was
walking down the street when he heard
sirens and for some reason decided it
would be smart to hide behind the
bushes...” or the “And then she made out
with a roadie thinking it was the lead
singer...” type, well, frankly, the
scandalous stories can be down right
fulﬁlling.

And if recall of last night’s events
doesn‘t secure an avid audience we have
the satisfaction of knowing that once 10
p.m. rolls around again we’ll have a whole
new set of tales to share.

' When I graduate from Washington
and Lee I’ll have more than just a solid
education and a meaningful degree: I’ll
have a treasure chest full of stories.

Not only are we making ridiculous
fools out of ourselves while starring in
“The Lilly and the Polo Shirts,” we’re
making memories. Memories that will last
us a lifetime.

I bet no one at Middlebury has a
story like mine about that time I...

 

