I ‘hit iiilslvsmsrrlr !.'.lE3.“x’llFi‘r“

   
    

r‘ —e§p av‘ .L‘<.:'—

l

l nity,

VOLUME 89, NO. 7

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEX|NGTON,V|RGlN|A

OCTOBER 26, 1989

By Spain Brumby

'. Staff Reporter

This weekend over 800 families are
expected to attend the thirty-fifth annual
Parents’ Weekend at Washington and Lee.

Parents’ Weekend, which is coordinated
by the Development Office, will feature

’ several activities designed to familiarize the

entire family with the Washington and Lee
community.

Lex McMillan, an alumnus and W&L’s
Director of Development, said, “It’s very

who have relation to W&L have an oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with the peo-
ple who live and work here.”

President John Wilson and his wife
Ann will hold a reception at Lee House for
freshman and their parents from 4 to 5:30
p.m. Friday. This reception will provide
an opportunity for students and parents to
meet the Wilsons and to tour the historic
Lee House, where Robert E. Lee and his
farrlily lived during his presidency.

Also on Friday, there will be a Choral
Ensembles and University Wind Ensemble
concert in Lee Chapel. The concert for

ances by the University Chorus, the Glee
Club, the Women’s Chorus, Southem Com-
fort and JubiLee. Lindsay DeHaven, a ju-
nior and member of the University Chorus,
the Women’s Chorus, and JubiLee.said she
is looking forward to the concert.

“It’s always one of the best perform-
ances because the parents are so supportive
and enthusiastic,” she said.

On Saturday at 11:30 a.m., Wilson will
deliver his “Report to Parents" in Lee
Chapel. Wilson will discuss the state of
Washington and Lee and inform parents of
the progress in the administration. Follow-

els composed of an administrator, a faculty
member and a student available to answer
any questions parents might have about
Washington and Lee.

On Saturday and Sunday, the University
Theatre will feature its season opener,
“The Body Shop.” This musical comedy,
written by Washington and Lee drama
Prof. Tolri Ziegler, will be at 3 and 8 p.m.
in the University Theatre, located on the
comer of Henry and Main streets. Junior
Karen Meyers, stage manager for “The
Body Shop,” says the play is “fun for the
whole family."

W&L’s annual Parents’ Weekend to begin tomorrow

W&L students, $6 for adults and $4 for
other students and senior citizens. Those
wishing to attend are advised to call ahead,
as some shows may already be sold out.

For most students, it is not the various
activities which make Parents’ Weekend
special, but it is the parents. Many students
have not seen their parents in eight weeks
and are looking forward to this family re-
union. Matt Moberg, a freshman from San
Francisco, is especially excited about see-
ing his family. “I want to hear all the
details of the earthquake. Also, I would

¢"iF(_*]I:—:’ ‘J-,.'. i r ’ "‘irI.t:.rrl...’.~'.;F.-' 
 £5527 5 g " litli r“o‘ii§§m 
. V‘  I a
i rge. r 7/‘
ii

 

and Colleges, which recognizes out-
standing student leaders.

Campus nominating committees
and editors of the annual directory
have included the names of these

students based on their academic

achievement, service to the commu-
leadership in extracurricular

 activities and potential for continued

success.

Of the 45 W&L students
included in the 1990 volume, 33 are
seniors in the university's under-
graduate divisions, while 12 are stu-
dents in W&L School of Law.

Students named to Who's Who

_ this year from Washington & Lee

are‘

‘SENIORS: Catherine Black

r Baillio of Virginia Beach; _Chris-

topher Alfred Beeley of Houston,
Tex.; Cheryl Lynn Bowles of Mari-
etta, Ga.; George Wesley Boyd of
Dallas, Tex.; Thomas Andrew Bru-

  

Fre!

Washington and Lee freshman Mike Sandridge looks down
the sights of an M-16 during the ROTC’s Oct. 16 rifle

   

shoot. A story on the shoot appears on page 4. W&L photo
by W. Patrick Hinely.

 

,"‘i important to the university that all of those parents and students will feature perforrn— ing, his speech, there will be seminar pan— Admission to the play is free for all like to go out to dinner.”

4 ' A it  I
 F°"V"""° FD roflt
i "I 5

. in Wh o s

y.

iWho list expected
A From the W&L News Office

‘ Forty—flve students from Wash- By Melinda Conknng

‘‘ ington and Lee University have Staff Reporter
vr. been selected for inclusion in the r

1990 edition of Who’; who Among Fancy Dress Chairman Alex Hitz has predicted the
!\‘. smdems in Ame"-6a,, Um-vent-n-es 1990 Fancy Dress Ball will take in $77,950, an amount

he said will give FD a proﬁt of nearly $5,000.

Hitz, who presented FD’s proposed budget to the
Executive Committee Monday night, said he would like
the anticipated profit to “be used for a charity around
town or to go to paying back last year’s expenses.”

The proposed budget, which EC President Willard
Dumas said the EC must still vote on, is based only
on the costs of the Friday night ball itself. It includes
$25,000 for entertainment, $15,000 for souvenirs and
$17,250 for decorations.

The total revenues are based on projected sales of
1,300 tickets at $40 each, 2,200 T-shirts for $9 each,
4,500 cups sold at the price of two for $1, and 1,300

posters at $3 each.
Hitz said he has contacted Peter Duchen, a swing

Board discusses W&L Self-Study

By Rick Peltz

meeting, said President John Wilson.
The primary purpose of this meeting

band, about playing at FD. According to Hitz, good

El Please see EC page 11

No deans
at rape

      to    Long Range-Plan highlights m-
_ ’ ' ' the plan w 'le t ey were a r _
burg; Reid Tarlton Campbell of The Washirrgrori and Lee Long rogerherr The goals called for In - support of womens lnter-  

New Canaan, Conn.; William Bran-

Range Plan, a comprehensive report

“There were lots of questions

the Long Range Plan in-

collegiate athletics with bud-

d Canada of Roanoke; Delos . . , . ., — - elude: ets and coachin staffs com.
R(1)1ISS€ll Clarlz of McMirmville, Ore.; fifetgzeggzegilzrssr Isfijﬁlsdgrﬁafgtgi lsfirrgtrl thirni:rr:rSS‘r°r‘;Sl~ drrséiicrior Briarxi . a faculty-student ratio of gamble to men's Teams; 3!’ 1350“ Kelley

- v - - .1 Staff Reporter
Dedra Lynn Connor of Columbia, Trustees rrreerirrg Corrrrnrrrricariorm “The siafrnarrd 10—to-1 by,lncreaslng the fac- - common areas, two

S.C.; Shawn Allan Copeland of Ch-

Aside from the board’s usual

administration were able to answer

ulty to 150 full-time and

large lounges, and a Resi-

arleston, W. Va.; Kara Lyrm - - - i ion of shrinking the student body to dence Life Coordinator's For the fourth straight year,
Cunningham of Charleston, W. Va. :r:iI;:1Ii§)aSri°nr:rI::[¥fru:sg::r(?a;f::l:nr:1: iﬁzsgogfgsrtrlrzxrﬁbgsfiie sat Sfact 1,500 students (from 1,620 apartment in the freshman Washington and Lee’s freshmen at.

Also John Matthew Durant of and an Friday to discuss rhe Long H1 think everybody [on the 5lUd9lll$ and 127 l3CUllY)§ dormitories”; tended meetings dealing with ac-
Drexel Hill, Pa.; Christopher Moher Range Piarr According ro Farris Pr board] Saw ihe logic of [he r° “an undergraduate popu- - a winter Rush in January quaintance rape, but, for the first
Giblin of Washington, DC; David Horchkiss rrrriversiry secrerary and proposals,” said Wiisorr “Tire latlon composed equally of of 1993 to permanently re- time, only d_0}'m Counselors and
Kevin Gildea of Sherwood Forest, vice president for university carrrpaigrr proposais in the plan men and women" that also place Fall Rush; freshmen participated, and no one

Md; Kristi A. Goodman of Salem;
Billie Dallas Hagewood of Franklin,
Tenn.; Donald Scott Jackson of

relations, 29 of the 30 voting
trustees and four trustees emeritus
attended.

are...to build the endowment of the
uriiversity...so we can be less reliant
on tuition.”

considers factors such as “ra-
cial and ethnic diversity" and
family income levels;

- a tuition increase to a
constant 85 percent of the av-
erage of comparable institu-

from the adrriinistration ‘attended.
The freshman class was split
into nine groups. In each of the

* Gambrillsr Md-: Robert Edward Approval of Long Range Plan Wilson said that the board - “an athletic training room lions and “reasonable in- nine S°°‘i°"S- }h° fr°Shm6_n were
Martin of Camp Hill, Pa.; Mary Al— ,eC,,,,,,,,,,,,da,,,,,,s uwiii nor are directed an independent fund-raising at Wilson Field," new locker creases in financial aid". Sh°“'" 3 Sh°“ V1d°9_°°n°°r{““8 dew
ice McMorrow of Arlington; Stacy place until, at the earliest consultant firm from the rooms and lighting; - By Rick P9/I2 TaP°_ and ‘hen Pamclpated 1“ 3 dis‘
Lyrme Morrison of Jenkintown, Pa.; February," at the board’s nexi [3 Please see BOARD page 11 cusslon led by dorm counselors.

Kevin M. Nash of Cordova, Tenn.;

'. Judson Brooks Parker of Tampa,

Fla.; Christopher Pennewill, Jr. of
Pensacola, Fla.; Todd C. Peppers of
Lexington.

Pledge fall GPAs above

average

Mary Alice McMorrow, head
dorm counselor, said the video
raised a lot of questions and there
was at good deal of discussion
among those who attended. She

And Jonathan I. Sheinberg of B Brian Root ma /Alpha Epsilon, Pi Kappa Phi, Phi Kappa Psi added, “all. the groups were differ-
Roseland, N.J.; Christopher Oakes Sgnior C0 Editor and Kappa Alpha, all had averages over 2.584, Fraternity GPA ent, but in some people really
‘ Smyihe of Lynchbuigi Jennifer E_ P)’ said Atkins. r r i opened up and shared a lot of ques-
Spreng of Bolleville, Ill.; Charles R. ' The next [W0 fraiemluesi Kappa 5181113 and _ i _ lions. COIICCUIS and °V€I1 Personal
r Tomkins 1V of Gallatini Tenn.; For the first time in several years, the aver- Delta Tau Delta both had averages over the Sigma Phi Epsilon 3.013 experiences.”
Robert K_ Tompkins of age grades for fratemity_ freshmen are higher average of all freshmen, 2.554. r Sigma Chi 2953 In a change from the past three
, Morgantown, W. Va.; John Joseph than those of all Washington and Lee male Also, the eleventh fraternity, Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Nu 2886 years, no adrnlnistrators were pres-
Vittori of Salem, N.J.; Catherine freshmen students, said Associate Dean of Stu— hadra freshman average higher than the average Lambda Chi Alpha 2 829 ent at this year’s meetings. The dis-
Lynn Williams of Beaumont, Tex.; dents Leroy C. r“Buddy”_ Atkins at Tuesday for independant freshmen men, 2.456: Si m Al h E ,i 2'671 cusslon was led solely by dorm
and Richard Lewis Zuber of Ches— night’s Iriterfratemlty Council meeting. Dean of Freshmen Kenneth Ruscio called the _9 3 P 3’ PS‘ 0" - counselors,
, ter, N.J. » “Please go back and praise your pledges results for fraternity freshmen “very encourag- Pi Kappa Phi 2.648 Ken Ruscio, W&L’s dean of
LAW STUDENTS: Roger instead of making fun of them for ruining your ing,” and said the whole W&L freshman class Phi Kappa Psi 2.617 freshmen, said he felt the discussion
Wendell Alsup of Murfreesboro, house’s image,” said Atkins. is performing very well this year. i Kappa Alpha 2595 would be freer if peers were leading
Tenn.; David Neal Anthony of Rich- The average midterm GPA for fraternity “The whole freshman class is very goodthis A" piedges 2 584 it, and the decision to have the
mond; Nanette Kay Dory of Carson freshmen is 2.584, said Atkins. The average for year,” said Ruscio. “With the exception of last K3 8. 2'57 dorm counselors run the meetings
City, Nev,; Daniel Francis DuPre of all male freshmen is 2.554, and the average for year’s freshman class, these are the highest mid- ppa 'gma - 1 was not an attempt to exclude any-
Manilus, N.Y.; John Mansﬁeld Falk independant freshmen is 2.456. terms we’ve seen in about 14 years.” Della THU Delta 2-557 one who had been involved in the
of Great Falls, Va.; Nanette Claire “For the last several years, the fraternity According to Ruscio, the average freshman All freshman men 2.552 past.
Heide of Long Branch, N.J.; Jacque- freshmen average has been lower than the oth- GPA is 2.636. Phi Dena Theta 2477 “The significance of this issue
' line Anne Loughman of Point Jef- ers,” Atkins said. “This year, the houses are off IFC President Kevin Nash said the IFC was Independent men 2456 would be better conveyed by the
ferson Station, N.Y.; Kathleen Eliza- to a much better start.” “very pleased” with the midtcnns reports, and Phi Gamma Delia’ 2 451 dorm counselors. If students think
beth McLeroy of Cape Coral, Fla.; Sigma Phi Epsilon had the highest average was anxious to see that the progress is contin- B _ ' an issue is important, they can con-
Kymberly Kay Oltrogge of New for its freshmen, Atkins said. ucd. eia Theta ' 2-444 vey that message to other students
Hampton, Iowa; James Steven “Their average is over 3.0, which is awfully “We hope these grades are a sign of better Phi Kappa Sigma 2.368 better than the administration can,"
Patterson of Fort Smith, Ark.; Brian impressive,” Atkins said. things to come from fraternities,” said Nash. Chi Psi 2.158 he I10l8d-
William Robinson of Lexington; and The top eight fraternities, Sigma. Phi Epsilon, “These are the best feshman midterm grades pi Kappa Aipha 2_111
Joel Alan Waite of Ft, Littleton, Pa, Sigma Chi, Sigma Nu, Lambda Chi Alpha, Slg- I've seen since I've been at W&L.” *3 M9359 599 DATE page 5

 

Don‘? -l:oR 6&T
'FAt/LE‘ -

;__
L._
4..

5 <3 
-i

 

.’5A\/W65
—Su-\lDA~.-—

IFC gives funds to Contact, Spectator, SAB

By Brian Root
Senior Copy Editor

The Interfratemity Council allo-
cated more than $20,000 to the
Spectator, Contact, the SAB and the
Health Education Committee at its
meeting Tuesday night.

The IFC Judicial Board voted to
give $1,200 to the Spectator. This is
the first time the IFC has given
money to a campus publication.

“It is the IFC’s responsibility to
contribute to different avenues of
communication,” said IFC Vice
President Hunt Neidringhaus.

The Spectator published its first
issue of the school year last week.

Last year, the magazine did not
receive funding from the Washing-
ton and Lee Publications Board. The
magazine, in the opinion of the
Publications Board, was a “duplica—
tion of efforts,” meaning that exist-
ing publications already fufilled
needs the Spectator planned to ad-
dress.

Paul Lagarde, editor of the Spec-
tator, said the magazine would not
be under any sort of control from
the IFC as a result of the funding.

Lagarde said although he and the
magazine's publisher, Ray Welder,

plan to petition the Publications
Board for money this year, he does
not expect the request to be granted.

The IFC also granted $13,000 to
Contact, a student-run organization
which brings speakers to W&L each
year.

Last week, the IFC delayed vot-
ing on the budget request pending a
presentation from Contact to the
whole IFC, including representatives
from each fraternity.

Contact's entire budget totals
$31,000, according to Contact Co-
Chairman Thomas Sheehan, the oth-
er $18,000 having been given by
the Executive Committee.

“We would like to start holding
receptions for each speaker in frater-
nity houses this year,” said Shee-
han. “I think that would help frater-
nities with their relations with peo-
ple outside the W&L community.”

Sheehan said Contact would wel-
come more suggestions from frater-
nity members as to what speakers
should be invited.

Fraternities have previously paid
$10 for each member to Contact.
Under the new arrangement, each
house would pay $12 for each
member, and the IFC would make
up the difference.

The IFC also decided to help the

SAB pay for at least one, and pos-
sibly two, concerts this year.
According to Applcbaumi the
"IFC agreed to make up whatever
losses the SAB might incur for both

concerts, as long as the losses did
not exceed $5,000, so that the SAB
would show no loss.

Finally, the IFC gave $1,350 to
the Health Education committee for
the promotion of Alcohol Awareness
Week. The IFC paid for the sound
system at the Battle of the Bands
last Friday at the student pavilion.

“I heard the event went really
well out at the pavilion,” IFC Presi-
dent Kevin Nash said.”

wt‘ —

 

  

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26, 1989

The Se|f—Study
is a stilted study

Something very important happened last week, and many
Washington and Lee students didn’t even know it. With a
loud thud, a two-volume, 440-page monstrosity fell in the
laps of W&L’s trustees. Its name is the Washington and Lee
Long Range Plan, more commonly known as the Self-Study.

The study was tagged by its authors as a comprehensive
look at our college; it is said to include opinions from
faculty and students. But, with all due respect to the study’s
authors, we hope the trustees went in with shovels drawn.
While the study does contain some good ideas, most of it
seems devoid of ﬁscal realism and student input.

We realize that the purpose of a self-study is to come up
with a list of needs, and perhaps it is appropriate that the
authors were concerned more with what they would like
W&L to have than with what W&L should pay to get. But
we hope the trustees realize that this list must be pared
down. Far too many of its suggestions are justified by
statements like this one dealing with residence life programs:
“Compared to other colleges, we are greatly understaffed and
underfinanced.” That other schools spend money for
something is hardly a reason we should also.

There is throughout the document an undercurrent of
animosity toward the importance of fraternities at today's
W&L, none-too-subtly veiled as an effort to build class unity.
For example, the study labels as “essential” the moving of
fraternity rush to the winter. And, in an attempt to provide
places other than fraternity houses where students may gather,

the study calls for the building of a new student center. That »

building would include not only a new Co—op, which we do
need, but also vast lounge areas, which we don’t. Even
though W&L’s sororities, the prime users of Fairfax Lounge,
seem well on their way to building lodges of their own, and
even though Gaines Hall and the University Center provide
ample space for other campus groups, the study’s authors
would like to see another Fairfax, or another Arlington
Women’s Center. Given that the use of these places by
sororities will end as soon as lodges go up, we would be
hard-pressed to find two more under-used facilities on
campus; now the self-study says we need a third.

This idea and others indicate the study’s authors do not
understand that W&L is a university, not a small college.
The “W&L community” is in fact a collection of many
intersecting communities composed of students from across
the nation and around the world, most from different frater-
nities and sororities, with many different interests and from
many different backgrounds. To deny this is to deny the very
nature of Washington and Lee.

Getting back to the bucks, it seems the authors included
every idea they considered “good,” regardless of costs.
Among other things, the study suggests adding six employees
to the staff of the Dean of Students; expanding services
designated for minority students; creating a committee to
track women’s needs; renovating virtually every building on

i campus; and hiring new professors from’-oneeend of the’

campus to Zthe other. These may sound “like neai ta?-,;.s,‘"‘%m;
they will cost‘ an awful lot of time, and money.

To be fair to the study’s authors, they did consider where
this money will come from. And, as you might guess, they
didn’t suggest cuts in their salaries as an option. To quote
from the study, “Our students deserve the best. Their
families are, with certain exceptions, able to pay for it.”

That’s right. the answer to the funding question is higher
tuition. The study goes to great pains to justify an increase
by comparing W&L’s tuition to the tuition charged by
“institutions we select as comparable.” And guess what? The
average comes out to be higher than W&L’s tuition.

The study is generous; it suggests that W&L charge only
85 percent of that average. But, since the present rate is 73
percent, W&L could gouge its parents for a hefty increase
and still keep tuition well below the average for “compara-
ble” institutions. Why hang on to that “Best Buy” ranking
when we can build a new Fairfax Lounge instead?

We encourage all W&L students to sift through this docu-
ment; a copy is at the University Library’s main desk. No
doubt you will find some of its ideas worth supporting. But
we also predict you will find things you dislike, particularly
if you're concerned about how they are paid for.

And we urge the trustees to refuse to accept this pipe-
dream as gospel. Seek student opinions before you spend a
dime. Realize that, while some students may have had
something to do with this document in its infancy, any
student contributions have gone through quite a ﬁlter.

In sum, while there are good ideas in the Self-Study, there
are also bad ones. We hope W&L’s trustees will get first-
hand help from students in trying to see the difference.

P,

l‘

   

\\\\Tulllllllﬂﬂ'/iW21//t’///

 


\ _ i
7/"

  

J
:l

_ ‘ \ Q 3‘
til it it
\:n\x\v\i\w\\\viiz//////////_’{/_/u/_’/_'4,_

 
 

. \\.\\X\;'\‘&&\\\‘S\7\‘§.

\. . \
\\\\\\t   \ \ \\
_\_\\\ ‘\\\t\.\\\\.&\t\\s\s.\\\\\x\.\\\\\

1??
f‘‘:\\\\> ‘ ‘ .
'1 \

'
MY VIEW
By Taylor Sanders

EDITOR'S NOTE: At a memorial
service marking the 119th
anniversary of the death of Gen.
Robert E. Lee, Washington and Lee
history Prof. Taylor Sanders spoke
on Lee and his legacy. The words
that follow are adapted from that
address.

On this page last week, I
discussed the ethics of Lee and how
they guided his policies as president
of Washington College. Remember
that the general was a Evangelical
Christian and a Victorian gentleman.
Unlike members of the South's
“Bowie Knife and pistol gentry,”
Lee had his own more gentle social
and ethical code, based on
self—denia1 and self-control.

In applying that code to his
—+

 
 
   

 
 
 
 

\-vqvf U'Vq1'\.vV"'\Y
” \‘ \\-\\k\ A;

 
 

 L” 

students, Lee would place relation-
ships over rules, values above ab-
stractions, and community over
codes. The other person rather than
any abstraction forged the iron core
of Lee’s approach. For example, a
professor once told the General that
a decision regarding a student would
upset precedent and that precedent
must be preserved. Lee answered
that when it comes to yotmg people
one should respect the person more
than the precedent.

We can find evidence of this in
Lee’s great decision — the one
Douglas Southall Freeman said
“Lee was born to make” — to
resign his commission in the Union
army. In the abstract, Lee believed
that slavery was both a “moral and
a political evil” as damaging to the
whites who practiced it as to the
blacks who suffered under it. As an
episcopalian Evangelical, he prayed
that a heightened moral atmosphere
in America would lead to eventual

        
 
 

 

, , t
V ‘./,’r‘. "  /I ./I

- development,

  
 
  
 

-/
./

  
    
 
  
   

5'"

AT]  /
v  AND ANoTH£R

. I / / , / /  i‘ V
I;  LIBERAL Houseuow E ..
’ /~:._.:/_  //' £XPeRl.¢.NceD A 2».

in

, \

,. « ,","v. / ' / 'l
////,. a’////¢  «.

;.‘..gr,'r/4n/’.ol’AJr/
. ,5

‘mi2l2tFYlN(2
HALLow£eN.

 
 
 
 

..ll‘\

epturing R.E. Lee’s“

abolition — a common southern
view among evangelical Christians.
As a life-long soldier who admired
Washington and the generation of
the American Revolution, Lee was a
firm Union man who in principle
believed that Secession was
fundamentally wrong. Had Lee’s
decision been based merely on a
knee jerk devotion to duty, then we
could imagine Lee serving under
Lincoln and commanding the Union
armies.

Given what we know about Lee,
his system of ethics and his belief
that a student’s moral and spiritual
development was even more crucial
than a young man's intellectual
what can we learn
from Lee today? Lee believed that
the use or abuse of power shows an
individual in his or her truest light,
how can we best apply those old
South “values and traditions” for
which the general stood? Is all, or
indeed, is any part of the Lee

    

legacy;

legacy pertinent for today? . "
Some years back I had a long
conversation with an alurrmus who’

was living in Charlottesville. Wei,
mused about why Thomas Jefferson
seems so alive at UVa, yet Lee’s'£
legacy at times seems so moribund 9
in Lexington. We decided that
Jefferson’s legacy was primarily‘)
intellectual — an eighteenth century
enlightemnent spirit, searching, 7
questioning probing — a legacy that _
could thrive on any modern campus.

The Lee legacy was primarily“
spiritual and moral —- nineteenth
century, high Victorian morals at
that. If the question is essentially «
one of morals and mores, then we.
can trace the decline, if not the
collapse, of essential aspects of the
Lee legacy back to the 1920s, at‘
least. The last of Lee’s old faculty
had been dead for two decades and,
his “boys” were rapidly; passing
from the scene.

D Please see LEE page 3/
r

1

@112 lllittg-tum ilﬂlri

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

   
    
 
  

 

Editors .................................................... ..Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison
Associate Editors .................................... ..Jarnes Lake, Genienne Mongno
Assignment Editor ............................................................ ..Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor ...................................................... ..Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor ............................................. ..Pamela Kelley
Sports Editor ........................................................ ..Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor... .............................................. ..Brian Root
Editorial Cartoonist ......... .. . ........................................... ..Jeff Woodland
Business Manager .................................................................. ..Anne Dysart
Advertising Manager ............................................. ..Jason Kelley
Circulation Manager .................................... ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office,
Room 208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in
that week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

“Al, -
V.-.-:~

No quarters
in purgatory

As I ascended the stairs leading out of the
hot and steamy dungeon of hell, I realized that
I had a bone to pick with the persons in
charge of maintenance in this commonly fre-
quented locality in Gaines, the laundry room.
LI must say this spot is comparable to purgatory
for a number of reasons besides the tempera-
ture: laundry, in itself, is a chore and a night-
mare to every college student, but my grief is
compounded by the fact that the change ma-
chine is never functioning. From the very be-
ginning of this school year (literally, I mean
the first day my feet touched W&L soil on
Sept. 1), this ever-so-important machine, vital
to the cleanliness of appearance to so many
students, has been “out of order.”

I would like to propose a new laundry
system that would be much more effective,
even though it would be slightly expensive to
change from the old system of using quarters.
In the long run, however, the benefits would
be enormous. (I honestly think that our school
can afford a new system and owes it to its
students, especially since we were ranked as
the number one best buy in a liberal arts edu-
cation in the Oct. 16 issue of U.S. News and
World Report.) I think our coin-operated laun-
dry machines should be converted to charge
card machines. A similar process has already
been installed in the library with the copying
machines. Instead of relying on quarters, stu-
dents would be able to insert a magnetic-strip
card with a designated amount of charges into
the laundry machines. Just think, you could
charge this home too! This process would eli-
minate the headaches of the change machine,
stop people from using the post office’s stamp
machine for change, and relieve the bookstore
workers from furnishing students change for
laundry. Hopefully someone important will hear
and understand my plea before my laundry
piles up too high!

Buried in bundles,
Kimberly Allison, '92

Women only?

Ordinarily, I am not one to jump up on the
soap box, but an advertisement in your Oct. 12
issue forced my hand. The ad is for a discus-
sion of “the feminine images of God" with
the unusual title, “Our Mother Who Art In
Heaven." The discussion is open to all wom-
en students, faculty, and staff of the W&L
community.

My Wednesday nights are booked; I doubt
I would go if I were invited, but that the lead-
ers of this organization feel privileged to ex-
clude half of the W&L community from their
controversial meeting counters many principles
this decade has tried to instill. Since women's
groups have led that battle, it seems particular-
ly hypocritical that the leaders of this particular

 

LETTERS

group would sponsor a weekly women’s—only
event.

Maybe the attendees of this event don’t
share the exclusive bent of the organizers, but
to the latter I say, “Ladies, you seem to want
to have your cake and eat it, too.” It just
doesn’t work that way. While women and mi-
norities are fighting to eliminate discriminatory
behavior, what would motivate some in that
group to practice it on their own?

Editor, as manager of an enlightened cam-
pus newspaper, I believe you, too, bear some
of the responsibility for the content of the
advertisements you accept. If you would re-
consider running an ad for an organization
whose practices offended public policy, perhaps
you want to reconsider also the tacit approval
you have given this group.

There’s a big war in Richmond about wom-
en in VMI, among other issues. If a group of
women don't want to practice non-discrimina-
tion themselves, they demean the efforts of
women throughout the nation.

Sincerely,
James T. Feezell, Law ’92

EDITOR'S NOTE.‘ The appearance of an ad
in The Ring-tum Phi in no way indicates an
endorsement of the group or individual pur-
chasing the ad by the Phi’s editors.

Student offers
campaign tips

EDITOR’S NOTE.‘ This letter was submitted

to The Ring-tum Phi staff before last Thurs-
day's runoff elections.

If I could offer any bit of advice to per-
spective candidates running for election at
W&L, it would be: AVOID USING PERSON-
AL PRONOUNSl In the past election for
freshman class president, my poster read:
“Why Vote for Him...When You Can Vote for
Kim." Now, I realize that I really should have
said, “Why Vote for Him/Her/The Other Can-
didaw (and. by the way, the ‘Him’ just hap-
pens to rhyme with my name, mind you) 
When You Can Vote for Kim.” That would
have been very ettective.

If one really wanted to ignore the fact that
another woman was running, that “Him" just
happened to rhyme with my name, and that
most people would understand that the pronoun
stood for all other candidates (a quick point of
English grammar: we use the third person pro-
noun when referring to all mankind — men and
women included); I suppose, not considering
all of this, one could convince oneself that my
rhyme had a malicious, conniving, feminist
intent. It certainly makes it more interesting if
I could be labeled a die-hard ultra feminist,
doesn’t it? I'm sorry for the disappointment,
but the reality isn‘t so exciting. I simply
wanted a catchy rhyme to convey the idea that
people should vote for me because I felt I was
the best candidate.

Let me say it more clearly, sexism is abso-_ T

lutely not an issue here, and it is ridiculous to’,
even entertain this thought. Candidates for
office should be judged according to their cre-
dentials, not their sex.

Kimberly Gladysz, ’93

Go home for

Homecoming T

I am writing in response to Mr. Golden and
Mr. Ford’s letters supporting certain fratemi—
ties’ decisions to nominate girls from other,
schools for Homecoming Queen. They both

imply that since girls from other school spend‘ ’
quite a large amount of time at W&L, they are -‘~.

as much a part of our school as coeds here.
I strongly disagree with that opinion. The

United States doesn’t pick a girl from Sweden I
to be Miss America just because she likes to It
come here for a vacation. Cadets from VMI : .

are an intrinsic part of our campus as well, but '

they don’t play on our football team. Why, 3
then, should girls that don't even attend this ; ,
school be allowed to represent it when over a V ‘

third of this school is female?

Respectfully, {
Lee Rorrer ’93

In response to John Ford's letter printed _in
the previous Ring-tum Phi on the Homecoming
Queen situation, I would like to say a few
words on coeducation here at Washington and
Lee.

Every student presently on this campus
made a commitment to W&L upon entrance to
this school to support the school’s decision to
make W&L a fully-coeducational school and
the decision to have an eventual 50-50 male-
female ratio. It is indeed fortunate that the
ratio will continue to promote equality, for as

the ratio evens out, the school will be able to '

be choosier in who it decides to accept. This
will make W&L a better school, pushing it up
to higher than 18th in the ranks.

The special relationship between W&L and
the surrounding girls’ schools should always
exist, but the girls form these schools are not
students at W&L and should not be thought of
as such. They should not receive the privileges
of students here, such as being chosen Home-
coming Queen. Assuming your high school
was coeducational, would your high school
have chosen a Homecoming Queen from anoth-
er high school? .

They have every right and, I hope they
continue, to be a part of the social life at
W&L. They do no have more of a place on
the campus than any student here at all. They
represent an outdated tradition —— a stagnation
in light of coeducation. If they wish to be
considered as Homecoming Queen candidates,
perhaps they should attempt to transfer.

Elizabeth R. Besenfelder, '93

 

 

 

it

t

3jLEE

I ‘from page 2
1

afﬂuent and more “sophisticat ”
post-World War I students, intent on
I‘ debunking the Victorians, had
i, arrived. Although President Henry
' Lewis Smith preached the old high
minded values, most of the students
- found them quaint and
old—fashioned. They gave him a fair
hearing, but then threw themselves
into the spirit of the Roaring
Twenties and the “fast" life.

It’s interesting to note that many
thoughtful southerriers during that
period also feared the loss of the
old positive Southern mores. C.
Varm Woodward points out that the
fear of becoming
“indistinguishable” from the North
and of being “submerged under a
national steamroller” of
materialistic, Yankee values haunted
the mind of the South in the early
thirties. W&L has been part of the
L national trend.

Lee built a community in the
, midst of a collapsed civilization. He
was surrounded by young men,
1 many of whom rankled under moral
, restraints. They came from
backgrounds marked by poverty,
I defeat and despair, along with a
collapsed secondary educational
system, waning parental authority
q_ and relaxed family control. Many
were bitter’. Some were wild and
5 unrestrained. A few were “incurably
. vicious.” In five years he turned the

‘way toward a new, kinder South,
that unfortunately has never been
totally realized. But he made a start.
' He did it by concentrating on one
boy at a time. How can we re-
capture this legacy?

Every time a student helps a
hapless freshman, comforts a
grieving friend, cordially greets a
‘visitor on campus, or goes to
' church, he takes a step in the right
direction. Every time a person with
‘ power uses it lovingly and responsi-
J bly to assuage pain, humiliation and
alienation, Lee's legacy shines
' brighter.

That light dims, every time I, as
a faculty member, fail to give my
I all to help a weak or troubled
;student, or thoughtlessly savage a
, pupil or doubt his word, or allow a
’ committee to create zany, needless
; bureaucratic rules, or place prece-
dent before the person, or treat a
colleague cruelly and unjustly in a
, tenure or promotion disyute.

The light grows darkest when
, members of the community get
drunk, destroy property, disturb
neighbors, insult waitresses, rnistreat
pledges or brutalize dates.
‘u Every time we play power
« gmnes that humiliate others,
whenever we ‘demand our rights at
the expense of others, whenever we

A cause embarrassment, frustration,
anger or pain, we play the part of
the “bowie knife and pistol

, gentry." In doing so we become

‘ arrogant champions of that darker,

. twisted Dixie legacy that Lee, the
model Southern gentleman, spent a
A lifetime trying to erase.

A new generation of relatively‘

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

Last year I celebrated Parent's
Weekend by writing a strongly-
worded article on the negative
aspects of having a mother. Since

then I have been beaten, bruised

and boycotted by hostile,
pocketbook-wielding middle-aged
mothers all over the world. These
women, who believe the sword is
mightier than the word processor,
think that strong-arm tactics can
change my anti-mother article plans
for Parents Weekend '89. So,
without wasting another word, I
reveal the obvious subject of this
article -- my dad (this one’s for
you, Mom). Yes, reader, it's time to
put the spotlight on the enigmatic

, Wardrobe

The Ring-tum Phl, October 26, 1989

The man who spawned Jon Sbar

man in the background.

The natural place to begin this
personality profile is, of course, in
the closet. In Dad’s closet there are
enough bell-bottom slacks, leather
sandals and fat ties to revive the
l960’s. Dad, who has the fashion
instincts of horse dung, keeps these
clothes in the closet because he
does not know how that they went
out of style two decades ago.
Maybe, someday I’ll steal all of this
stuff and open up a Hippie
Factory Outlet. So,
reader, the next time you find
yourself laughing at something I'm
wearing, keep in mind that good
fashion sense is a hereditary disease.

Leaving the closet, we move
down the stairs into the family
kitchen, a room where Dad spends a
lot of time eating breakfast cereal
out of giant salad bowls. If you ask

someone about Dad, even someone
who hardly knows him, they will
undoubtedly laugh and reply:“You
mean the guy who eats cereal out
of a salad boWl?” Here’s exactly
how he works: every morning about
7:30 Dad takes skim milk, three or
four different kinds of healthy
breakfast cereals (the granola kind
that looks and tastes like twigs and
din), two or three bananas, and
mixes it into a huge salad bowl. He
then proceeds to eat the concoction
with an army-sized spoon that-could
easily be used as a trench shovel.
Next we turn to the inevitable
subject of physical health. Unlike
most men his age who keep busy
working, watching television and

waiting for grandchildren, Dad is a I

fitness nut. His only vice is a strong
addiction to animal television
documentaries. However, Dad did

not become health conscious with
the trendy Crystal Lite “let's-go—on—
a- diet" aerobics generation. He was
‘riding his bike to work back in the
1970s when everyone, including
Jane Fonda, threw grapefruits at any
adult who had the nerve to ride his
bike in traffic.

Judging from Dad’s healthy
lifestyle, readers can imagine how
he reacts to me when I roll out of
bed after a late night and, at 11
a.m. with beer on my breath, head
down stairs for a bowl of Cap’n
Crunch and a day of idle television
viewing. Sometimes for fun he
wakes me up at 6 a.rri. to go

‘ jogging. He often asks me why I

can’t be more like Brutus (the
family dog) who is always ready to
wake up for a rim.

Unlike Mom who constantly
sends me letters and cookies, Dad

has only sent me one brief note
since I’ve been at college. The note
was scrawled on the bottom of a
letter from Mom. Here is an
excerpt:

Dear Jon.‘ Sorry we keep missing
each other on the phone. I had fun
hiking with you this summer...l hope
water polo is going well and you
are using your mountain bike a
lot...Today Brutus ﬂushed a deer, a
red-tailed hawk and a grouse while I
was running on a hiking trail in the
woods. See you soon, Dad

Because I am still financially
dependant on Dad, and hope to
remain that way at least until
middle age, I think it would be in
my best interest to end this article
at once. I hope all you mothers are
satisﬁed.

situation around and pointed the‘

The dawning of theAge of Aquarius?

MY VIEW

By J. Cameron Humphries

I read recently that according to the New
Age hippies, ours is the Age of Aquarius.
To those scholars of the heavens, Aquarius

‘is the sign of love and hate. I remember

Mother taught me, “never fall in love with
an Aquarius for they will only break your
heart.” This age we are in, however, means
far more than love, hate, and motl1er’s ad-
monition; Aquarius is also the sign of de-
struction.

I do not know just exactly how long we
have been in the Age of Aquarius, the New
Age is not too terribly speciﬁc here; but I
cannot help but think it is an outgrowth of
“the lost generation” and the wide scale
disillusionment following the Great War.
Herriingway and Eliot, among many others
defined their generation as lost, hollow, and
physically and emotionally impotent, making
it unable to find meaning in existence. A
quick reading of the day's news painfully
reminds us that ours may not be a lost gen-
eration, but we remain far from found. Al-

though they were perhaps forerunners to this
Age of Aquarius, their prophetic words echo
far more truth of our society today, than
they did when our grandparents read them
some fifty years earlier. With today's prob-
lems of drugs, sex, violence, teenage sui-
cide, etc., in addition to being the lost gen-
eration, we are also the troubled. Perhaps
this is the Age of Aquarius; if so, why?

I remember fondly my junior year in
high school when I studied the beloved
American philosopher, Ralph Waldo Emer-
son. His irrirnortal mutation of the Socratic
Code is perhaps more the root cause of the
Age of Aquarius than Shirley McClaine and
her glowing rocks. When he said, “To thine
own self be true,” he sent America, much
less Western civilization on a crash course
for catastrophe. Later James and the other
American Pragrnatists would extend this
intellectual and philosophical blasphemy, but
the Age of Aquarius begins with the radical
thought that man, which already controls far
too much in this world, could control truth.
The effects upon man since the advent of
this effrontery have most definitely caused
an age of chaos, call it Aquarius if you
please, and now on this crash course for

 

If man determines truth,
morality, or what have
you, then Hitler was com-
pletely iustified in his ac-
tions. Why? He was
being true to himself.

destruction, we are left to wonder why.

Yet, among all the many difficult ques-
tions twentieth century man is faced with
today, the answer to this question is simple:
Man does not control truth, period. As long
as man believes that he rriight control ulti-
mate reality, he will remain disillusioned. It
is much like a failing math student. The
poor failing math student will continue to
fail, causing whatever grief from parents
and school, in addition to not understanding
math, just as long as he insists upon his
answer being correct. The failing math stu-
dent does not create the correct answer; the
faltering society does not determine truth.
Something is not true ‘simple because it

Ultimately something which is true will
work because it is true, but merely because
something seems to work does it constitute
truth.

One is easily reminded of such truths by
Hitler. If man determines truth, morality, or
what have you, then Hitler was completely

. justified in his actions. Why? Because he

was true to himself when he murdered six
million people. Furthermore, the people of
the world, you and me, should praise Hitler,
not deride him, because he was more true to
himself than any human ever known to walk
on earth.

However, the only “truth” which Hitler
followed was that of destruction and Aquari-
us. As long as man insists on determining
his own truth and morality, man will pro-
ceed to destroy himself. As long as man

‘ maintains that he is the ultimate being in

the universe, he will continue to wage war
against perfection and pursue the persecution
of his own potential and of his soul.

When I look at society today and their
value of self above all else, I can’t help but
agree with the New Age.

“This is the dawning of the Age of
Aquarius...”

By Merrill Watson

works; truth is not determined by utility.

Pro-choice: protecting women’s rights

MY VIEW

By Elizabeth Parkins
and Pamela Patton

“I think contraception is disgust-
ing — people using each other for
pleasure.” — Joseph Schneider, Di-
rector, Pro-Life Action League

I. Cameron Humphries’ extreme-
ly murky “My View,” with its lim-
ited comprehension of medical fact
(classifying the fetus as an organ,
and falsely clairriing that it struggles
against abortion), its suspension of
reality(mankind conquering death
and achieving immortality) and its
highly sophomoric tone, have no

place in an intelligent discussion of
the abortion issue. Dealing with the
matter in such a callous manner
does a great deal of disservice to

"women who must struggle with the

real problem of unwanted pregnan-
cy.

Furthermore, by comparing a
woman’s right to abortion to Hit-
ler’s “Final Solution,”Humphries is
confusing a woman’s freedom to
voluntarily choose an abortion with
a totalitarian state’s forced genocide.
Or is he ascribing to the fetus a
“will to live” comparable to that of
concentration-carnp victirris? We
must assume so, since he does as-
sert that the fetus struggles for life
against an abortion.

This notion is the featured mes-
sage of the right-to-life film “Silent

Scream,’ which was shown in Lex-
ington recently. It’s a romantic no-
tion, but it’s just not true. The New
York Times answered the film's
charges way back in March of 1985
by featuring five medical experts
who discounted the theory that a
l2—week—old fetus(91 percent of all
abortions are performed within the
first trimester) has sufficient nervous
system development for any degree
of consciousness, much less the
ability to sense danger and react to
It.

To equate the life of a fetus
with the lives of the victims of the
world wars (and, as Humphries so
precisely expresses it:“tlie war be-
fore that one and so on and so
on...") is an affront'to the worth,
valor and dignity of those who suf-

TALKBACK

1 Scott Hamilton, ‘90, Virginia
V Beach - “I think he’d be of-
" fended that people wear baseball
, hats in the buildings. That’s not
“ what I think of as a W&L gen-

; tlernan. Why don’t these people

bother to take showers in the
4 morning?”

Larry Parker, ‘91, New York
City - “I think he’d be proud
that the Honor System has en-
dured in spite of the fact that
society has changed so much.”

Allen Litvak, ‘9l, Pensacola,
Fla. — “He’d think the adminis-
tration should be more personal-
ly involved.”

Caldwell Hart, ‘9l, Philadel-
phia, Pa. - “That’s a ridiculous
question because Lee would be
appalled by what he would see
in American society in general,
let alone in the way Washington
and Lee has changed."

fered and perished in death camps
and those who fought and died on
the ﬁelds of battle.

We strongly support Mr. Hum-
phries’ right to his anti-abortion
stand. We urge him to help preg-
nant women who chose not to ter-
minate their pregnancies by support-
ing pre-natal care for those who
cannot afford it, adoption agencies,

foster care systetns, day care
services and other vital sociali pro-
grams

But if his zeal would lead him
to block the doors of medical clinics
or endorses legislation barring abor-
tions, his opinions would come into
conﬂict with our rights. Our right to
privacy and our right to reproduc-
tive freedom. Our right to follow
our own religious and moral beliefs.

Photos by Amanda Hughen

 If Robert E. Lee were to come back today,
   what would he think of the state of affairs at W&L?

 

Chamle Schildt, ‘91, Anchor-
age, Ky. — “He’d be upset that
the student body government has
lost touch with the people it is
supposed to be representing.”

Our right not to undergo the most
intimate and profound physical, psy-
chological and spiritual experience a
human can endure — a pregnancy —
against our will.

We know that there are those
who will never agree that a wo-
man’s concerns are more important
than the continued development of a
fetus. But, if abortion is made ille-
gal, and women are forced into un-
safe, “back-alley” clinics, or are
forced by the state to bear unwanted
children, we will find that, to once
more quote Humphries, “millions of
souls are crying for justice, if we
don’t answer them, who will?"

Except this time the souls will
be those of women — your class-
mates, neighbors and sisters. How
will you answer them?

   

‘90, New York
say, ‘Where are

Patsy Sclutto,
City — “He’d
the kegs'?”’

-..»- ‘w -~'

T?‘

 

x.-.r 1‘: ; ;' ‘

;~r:v'.~'.\v~.‘-e':r'.«:.rt-revise t~ L"-“  ; .-2 -.-. 
~ 1 ‘ '1 .
_- .~,\V« ,-

7 Mobley said.

   -.. -. .. , .. .

- posted good scores, while the nov-

.-:.<'.-wva-t-.'.:-a-'.: e:-..\'v'.~:.:v'."..r1as'—.<‘s-

L
‘J
1.

‘tag:  -9 .i,.~., _- _ 4 '3. .¢‘.-1.v.e.¢is. .0. M. «.1. ‘.0.-6-w. W9 -‘H 3‘:
--._ 14'-9? +~s.4.,-4*‘ ~ _

6

$33,

‘ﬁfsfa

  

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26, 1989

“ii-‘tOTC hosts shoot

 

ices enjoyed getting a feel for the
weapon. Freshman Mike Sandridge’s
first round with the M-16 was suc-
cessful, and he said he couldn’t wait
to get another chance.

Meredith Gronroos summed up
her first experience by saying, “I
had always wanted to try something
like this. It was different than the
Schwarzenegger films I've seen, but
no less fun!”

The shooting exercise was a part
of the basic military science class,
according to Capt. Ramon L.
Ramos, of the W&L Military Sci-
ence department.

“It's a part of the class’ train-
ing," said Ramos. “We tried to
gear the event toward freshmen, but
all these shoots are open to all stu-
dents."

Ramos said there will be another
shoot during the winter term, which
will also be open to all interested
students.

From News Releases

Several Washington and Lee stu-
dents were given the chance to try
out America’s premier assault riﬂe,
the M—l6 machine gun, in a W&L
Military Science Department activity
last Tuesday.

The Open Shoot, which attracted
47 curious students, was held at the
Virginia Military Institute’s indoor
riﬂe range.

More than half of those who
participated said they had never be-
fore fired rifles. Each person was
given earplugs and instructions as to
how the weapon is operated. Then
the participants were put on the
range to give the M-16 a try.

“This was a great opportunity for
W&L students,” freshman Jim

Some of the veteran marksmen

Body Shop to open

ment usually has more time to de-
termine what kind of actors are
needed to ﬁll the roles.

Ziegler’s play is the story of
several cosmetic company employ-
ees who are forced to lose weight
by new owners to improve the
company’s image. Meyers said the

By Wendy Wolford
Staff Reporter

Despite casting problems in Sep-
tember, production of “The Body
Shop” is back on schedule and will
debut this weekend, said Director

; Joseph D. Martinez. plot unfolds through songs and
' I Filling the ﬁve main roles in the jokes with an added twist of a love
two-act musical comedy was a tall story or two,

order, Martinez said. “Because the
singing is almost nonstop, assigning
the parts was much more difficult
than usual,” he explained.

W&L Prof. Tom Ziegler finished’
writing the play in August which
limited pre-casting preparations,
Martinez noted. He added that in
most productions, the drama depart-

As the first director of “The
Body Shop,” Martinez ‘noted that
his job is quite a challenge. Com-
paring the play’s script to the blue-
prints of a ‘building, he said “it
looks good on paper, but will it
stand?”

The play will run from Oct. 28-
29 and Nov. 1-4.

Po.t-ends 'l/l/éeiéehd
Her vesé Lam dream

- Rikki: ‘ac s.:t..mhii.,;W)r/.-eta ts. Onto»

h—- Ibmumlc Btu  Batu. din,

-- Cole Slaw

\. J‘//'t'M FM’!

. B/~ow.sm; Coconut 84»:
-- /At mu/fut Cr‘alcI~ //oe 6,0}: ~—~
s.—- /lrméroc «lye IWMQ‘
‘Rice: ’5'.OO ( H i .
Pofuit: fill. ‘

Politics flick

The Politics Department will
be showing Robocop (1987: di-
rector-Paul Verhoeven) at 7 p.m.
on Wednesday, Nov. 1 and
Thursday, Nov. 2 in room 203
of Reid Hall. This dark satire on
the American way dramatizes the
external costs of radical privat-
ization on democracy in Old De-
troit. For further details call Dr.
McCaughrin at ext. 8624.

Exchange

Washington and Lee will par-
ticipate again this year with six
other colleges (Hampden-Sydney,
Hollins, Mary Baldwin, Ran-
dolph-Macon, Randolph-Macon
Woman's College, and Sweet
Briar) in an EXCHANGE Pro-
gram. To be eligible to take part
in this program, a Washington

and Lee student must have at ‘

least a 2.50 cumulative GPA. A
student may participate in the
EXCHANGE Program for an
academic year or, if the calendar
coincides with a portion of ours,
for a shorter period of time.
Those students wishing to
participate should obtain an ap-
plication from the Registrar's
Office. The deadlines for appli-
cations are: for Winter 1990-
Nov. 15, 1989; for Fall 1990-
March 15, 1990. A $15 non-re-
fundable application fee and per-

GENERAL NOTES

mission of the academic advisor
is required. The application fee
should be returned to Scott
Dittrnan as soon as it is com-
plcted.

Students interested in being
certified to teach must also ap-
ply and have the permission of
the Associate Dean of the Col-
lcge, Larry Boctsch.

Additional information, in-
cluding catalogs of participating
colleges, is available in Scott
Dittman's office in Reid Hall.

Two for Turkey

The W&L Independent Union
is conducting a fund raising
drive to beneﬁt poor Rockbridge
residents. The "Two for Turkey"
campaign asks each member of
the W&L community to con-
tribute $2 to buy Thanksgiving
turkeys and dry goods. Dona-
tions can be turned in to Dean
John's office no later than Nov.
1. If there are any questions, call
Tom Brubaker at 463-3103 or
Tim Place at 464-4478.

Registration

Winter term registration will
begin Monday, Oct. 6 and end
Friday, Oct. 10.

All new students and those
on academic probation may pick
up midterm grades from your
advisor.

Auditions

The Washington and Lee
University Drama Division will
hold auditions for Aladdin, a
Christmas Pantomime, on Oct.
30 and 31 at 7 p.m. The produc-
tion will be presented Dec. 1-3
and Dec. 6-8, and will be a part
of the Christmas in Lexington
weekend. Parts are available for
both men and women.

Music for the show will be
pop and musical comedy songs,
chosen to suit talent. Scripts can
be checked out from the Theater
Box Office. In addition to read-
ing from the script, auditioners
will be asked to display any oth-
er talents: singing, dancing, tum-
bling, juggling, etc.

For further information call
the Theater Box Office at 463-
8637.

Environment

The environmental action sec-
tion of the Outing Club will
meet on Monday, Oct. 30 at
5:30 p.m. in room 109 of the
Student Center. Get involved
with recycling and litter control.
Bring your ideas about how to
make this a better place to be.

Rock climbing

The climbing section of the
Outing Club would like to make

contact with people who want to
learn rock climbing and who
were unable to attend the Octo-
ber instructional sessions. If you
are interested, call Jodi Herring
at 463-7365 or Harrison Shull at
463-3817.

Biking

The biking section of the
Outing Club will take a trip to
a mountain-bike race in nearby
Craig County on Nov. 4 and 5.
Race trials (a great spectator

. event) will be on Saturday and a

cross—country race on Sunday.
All skill levels are welcome to
come for one or both days. Any-
one interested in competing, rid-
ing, or just watching should call

John Buchanan at 463-7369.

We will also attend a moun-
tain-bike race in Durham, N.C.
on Nov. 11 and 12. Once again,
all skill levels are welcome. If

you are interested, call Jolm Bu- ' \

chanan.

Financial aid

Students who wish to apply
for financial assistance for
Washington and Lee Spring
Study Abroad should contact the
Financial Aid Office by Nov.
15. Students who do not have a
1989-90 Financial Aid Farm on
ﬁle should contact the Financial
Aid Office Immediately.

 

The Lexington Connection

The staff of TLC-TRAVEL welcomes the parents of the
W&L students for a great weekend together.

If you require information

agents will be glad to assist you free of charge.

about travel, our professional

FREE SERVICES FREE BENEFITS
compiété Infoand e 0 Prompt Courteous and’
Reservations For: Professional Service —
0 Airlines 0 $100,000.00 Flight Insurance
0 Amtrak & Eurail 0 ALL Major Credit Cards

0 Hotels Accepted

0 Cars 0 Ticket Delivery

0 Cruises 0 Billings to Companies &

0 Tours Schools '

Convenient 2-Hour F ,reelParking with
Easy Access to our Back Door Entrance

16 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Va. 24450

HOURS:
Mon.-Fri. 9 a.m.-5:30 p.m.
Saturday 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.

General

___Il:adquartars.__

 

FOUR COURSE CHINESE DINNER

Wednesday, November 1

Menu:

Egg Drop Soup
Egg Roll
Fried Rice
Pepper Steak Stir Fry
Chow Mein Noodles
Fortune Cookies
Duck Sauce .
Mustard Sauce
Chinese Tea

$5.95 or 5-1/2 pts.

r*.)‘.,

 

 

   
   

 
  
  

  

 
   
     
   

 1  *Regular dinner menu will be suspended for Chinese Night.
DEAVERS ALLEY t
Unzvgfxzfy BUSINESS SERVICES qudiotgonics CRAFTS PLUS, INC.
'—':"-""" Our Typing V”‘°W'*'3 5"'5“5° 3"5°'*U5T GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
, is _ canon ALPINE Op-n Ilon--8-L 10-5
463_8448 word Perfect ADCOM BOSTON 31 S. Main st., Lexington 463-3355

1st Floor Reid Hall :5‘? §g£ANCE

Come to your Printing Center for: SIGNET B8-K

KIJPSCH NAKAMICHI G 9 S

- FLYERS a POSTERS - Custom RESUMES 3. letters M WSW TESTED eorge

- copying & printing - Transparencies I 3uyEn°°'pgoTE¢T,oN"”"pL'm o o

- Programs - Brochures 8. Booklets ' W‘, ,,'"3TE'*'-”‘ET'°"E g§,’:¢E“;”E"T 

' Newsletters ' 5°a""i"9 - WESEFMCE MOSTBMNDS I36 Varner Lane

TFW-35 ‘N5 AGGEPTED l)irocl|_\ behind l.t-gt-,1-tt‘s
. . 463-3975
 PT||l'1tl":tSJ Center h«'f‘a<:;ie€: at M:cirm<>sh;|:AsSgaIor1;t::. :ndvbaser- 8,0,, A_,,_ _ 5,0,, ,.j,,_ (800) 468-6667 We carry Nexxus. Redken & Paul Mitchell
ri er 0 sservice. e ac n 05 W rea - S S. ecan Evenings and Weekends by Appointment '
add scanned images to add to your posters or iiyers. Stop by and pick 203 North Main Street ii:§ii.'i.:i.i/ggiieilvgii OPEH Evenings
up a pamphlet about this equipment's capabilities. Lexlngto1%,3V;r4g;2la 24450 4235 Emma Road _ Roanoke M°"-'T""”j "" 75”” |’-'“-

,«..~.-. rm».-.v-.-.-. -.-.=--=»w-1~'-*-A '*"“‘"'*"‘?. 't1;‘;t;*;3£i;%;\*£.‘¥.t£5E¥.‘h;*é.‘<A.‘~$?i."$t«?éf—i?eL

  

. 1
:0 .-’

 

‘E?-ia@.Veftiintﬁef%~‘?e‘tr7ia‘ibRe'9p‘°¢*é%$*o‘i»ip"6“b*e*o"¢ai*f9?oW{-iZsi(5;-‘K-513.5.‘3:5.3ai.‘~.‘{%°-?t?|?7'?*?1’:'?‘I‘I‘!,?,
5: r

i.'.’"h'l... _
H 0 U s E      I 1 1:.

Restaurant} 

 

Parent’s Weekend
Sunday, October 29th
CHAMPAGNE BR UNCH
12:00 - 2:30

30 N. Main St.
Lexington

463-3020

   
  
 
 
 

 
   

Right

“sat”

Hamric & Sheridan. Jewelers

Standard 10% Discount
With Student .I.D.

. A. Walk away in style
with résumés from . . .

ﬁ\

 

 

' Lexington Lighting

Welcome Back Students.’
We have Study Lamps. Table Lamps, and Floor Lamps.

 
 

521/fountaain Copy--graphics

lli-Spcctl (‘npyiiru - l)t"\'l\'|li]l l'ublt\'lim<:_ ' l:»\X - l)t‘\i_Lil (ii':|Pllit‘\'
463-l7l2 - 125 up \t-lsnri. I t-\inulun - I-‘AX -163-(>918

  

  

 

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

Come by!

26 South Main Street
Robert E, Lee Hotel Bldg.
Lexington. Va. 244-SO-2523

_. (703) 463-9338 Arway Kirby

'{(FFlLlATED COUNSELING /(;‘l/ERAPISTS
 can be a symptom of a deeper problem. Ir-

ritability. arguments and impulsive behavior may reflect poor self
esteem. When inner conflict becomes a pattern. it may be time for
professional help. Sometimes you need more than a friend.

Sometimes you need

Susan M. Sisler, LPC
CALL 703-463-3305

more than a friend.
6 East Washington Street

 

Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

 

at

.. .4 &. A . 1.
..-. 1-..'.~. 

¢» 4} _ _‘~
.....-..;..-.;<,.....« -.
1

4.

Qt

s. K. -< O Q». 6-. -
....- .. ....................._...._._......._...........
.

.. .,y:x.-r :r.1r:.'x:a ..,. 4... .-_.., ...-,. .. -. ,.

 

 

Lamar Cecil

...wll| be signing new book

DATE  

from page 1

   
    
 

         
         
      

Howevei, Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Anne Sch0rer—Larnont said,
“In the past, the students have
always led the discussions and Dr.
Worth and I‘only responded when
the student panel deferred to us.”

Without the presence of profes-
sional counselors, students might
refrain from asking more technical
questions, Schroer-Lamont contin-
ued. “This year's freshmen do not
know our faces and might be more
reluctant to seek us out if they need
advice.”

IG DOG

- T-Shirts

- Long Sleeves ° Apr
- Hats ' Tia
- Sweat Shins - R91

I-r“’»\
y ,7 1.)

(3

/‘ .

   

i

 \

Custom Screen Printing
- Satin Jackets

Top Quality-USA Made Products Only - Custom Designed Artwork
17 1/2 S. Randolph - Lexington

By Tracey Thornblade
Staff Reporter

W&L history Prof. Lamar Cecil
will be signing copies of his latest
book, Wilhelm II: Prince and
Emperor, 1859-1900, in the
Boatwright Room of the University
Library tomorrow from 4:30 to 5:30
p.m.

Wilhelm II became the Kaiser of
the German Empire in 1888 and
twenty-six years later, led his
country into the first world war.

The book focuses on Wilhelm’s
youth, /including his Ang1o—Gerrnan
geneaology, his education, and his
service in the Prussian army, all of
which contributed to his future

, behavior and ideology.

It is the first comprehensive
biography of one of modem
history’s most powerful and

misunderstood rulers, and tells the
story of a, “bizarre and incapable
sovereign who never doubted that

 

Despite her fear that someone in
need might not seek out professional
counseling, Schroer-Lamont said the
dorm counselors are capable of
maintaining the program.

Refering to the exclusion of
administrators, McMurrow said the
date rape session “has been an
evolving process for the past four
‘years, and this is just another step,
hopefully an improvement.”

While the session was not man-
datory for freshmen, attendance was
quite high, McMorrow said. Ruscio
said dorm counselors showed an
interest in getting their freshmen to
attend, and that was probably more

GRAPHICS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26,‘ 1989

he posessed both genius and divine
inspiration.”

Wilhelm II, Cecil's third book, is
the product of nearly twenty ‘years
of research. That research included
numerous trips to Europe to study

various letters and manuscripts

which pertained to Wilhelm’s life.
Cecil spent six months at

Windsor Castle in the Royal

Archives reading letters written by
Queen Victoria's eldest daughter,
who was Wilhelm’s mother. He also
used papers from the Danish Royal
Family and from the Hohenzollems,
the Royal Family of Prussia, to aid
in his research.

Cecil said he was prompted to
write the book for several reasons.
First, none of the popular
biographies of Wilhelm II told him
what he wanted to know. In
addition, the more he read about
Wilhelm, the more bizarre and
curious Cecil felt his personality
was, and the more interested he
became in studying his personality.

effective than his making it manda-
tory.

The dorm counselors, along with
Dean Schorer-Lamont, previewed
the video and felt that it presented

the ideas that they wanted to get
across to the freshmen, McMorrow
said.

“The video begins with a very
visual scene of the aquaintance rape,
but then becomes the story of what
happens to the victim and the agres-
sor after the event,” she said.

One freshman male who was
asked what the felt of the program
said, “It seemed that the video put
a guilt trip on the guys and the dis-

Ceil to sign copies of latest book

His research was most concerned
with investigating what parts of his
upbringing and lifework related to
the book. Finally, the time of
Wilhelm’s reign (1888-1918) is right
in the midst of Cecil's period of

specialty in the German Empire
(1871-1918.)

Wilhelm 1]: Prince and Emperor,
1859-1900, is the first of two
volumes. The end of this book
marks the ».half-way point in

Wilhelm’s life and also marks a

critical year in the history of the

German Empire.

Cecil said he
completed the
second volume.

“I am a great believer in the
value of biography,” Cecil said. “It
seems to me that Wilhelm H's role
in history is an important argument
for biography. For example, one
cannot understand Imperial Germany
without first understanding the men
who ruled her.”

has already
research for the

cussion was mainly geared towards
what the girl should do to avoid
date rape.”

Schorer-Lamont responded, “Un-
til we analyze the freshman evalua-
tions that were ﬁlled out, we will
not know how they all felt about
the program, but it is the case that
the male physiology ultimately
causes the rape, and there must be
some degree of discussion about
trlpw the female can try to prevent

1s.”

According to Schroer-Lamont,

students who have attended the pro-
gram have become much more sen-
sitive to the issue of date rape.

 
   

   
      
 
      
   
     
    

i

618

in»

ons 8. Totes
nslers 8. Lettering Mam,“
all 8. Wholesale 

Rockbridge Video

114 W. Washington Street

463-7439

PORCH SALE - Sat.. Oct. 23

11 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Used VHS players, starting at $75.00 _
100's of used VHS & Beta Movies at rock bottom prices.
Check out our excellent selection of CD 's & audio cassettes

- ~

/

  

< 

\ .

 
 
   
   
   
   
 

Welcomes

\

103 N. Je
Lexington.

 

The Jefferson ’

W&L Parents

We offer a distinctive

Fresh Flowers,
Silk, Gifts, and Bonsai.

,‘Lthc
iferson
I Florist to the Homestead

-( 703) 463-9841

selection of:

fferson
Va. 24450

    

  
  
 
    
 

130 S. Main St.

“Campus Reps Needed” earn big
commissions and free trips by selling
Nassau/Paradise Island,‘ Cancun,
Mexico, Jamaica & Ski trips to Ver-
mont & Colorado. For more informa-
tion call toll free 1-800-344-8360 or in
Ct. 203-967-3330.

 

TELECONFERENCE:
Fundamentally Speaking:
Catholic View on Campus

“Which Came First:
The Bible or the Church?"

Northen Auditorium
8:30 p.m.
Thursday. ()ct. 26th
l)l‘()tlLlL'L‘tl h_\ (ioltlcn l)omc Protluctionx

Prescriptions 0 Cosmetics °Perﬁ4mes
Charge Accounts 0 Free Delivery

1' 

,' A Tradition 2":
” of Classic Giﬁs 

§1“‘?\lil£P2ii’W’..ai'e4“' ..-.a.."Z" —'—."$7«.5£’.¥'lf»Il'lél
S

primntraaw es-.~a=> 37 

Lexington Bike Shop

Giant - Trek - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Cannondale
Bridgestone Mountain Bikes 10% Off Through October

 
 
  

    

‘v

I

-9.2:.
_—.,.r

from Virginia.

Mollenhoff receives
acheivement award

By Courtney Payne
Staff Reporter

W&L journalism professor
Clark Mollenhoff will be one of
seven people to receive the 1989

. Missouri Honor Medal for Dis-
tinguished Service to Journalism
during the University of
Missouri-Colurnbia’s annual Jou-
malism Week.

Other winners include Helen
Thomas, United Press Inter-
national’s White House Cor-
respondent, and Linda Wer-
theimer, host of National Public

Radio’s award-winning news-
magazine "All Things
Considered."

 

Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer Prize
winner, is widely known for his
investigative reporting for the
Des Moines Register and The
Washington Times. He is the
author of several books, in-
cluding The Pentagon and The
Man who Pardoned Nixon.

Clark Mollenhoff

...honored by Missouri

school. It has presented honor

UM’s School of Journalism, medals for lifetime
founded in 1908, is the world’s accomplishments in journalism
first professional journalism since 1930.

VZ/'/YZ/K/./7/7/VI/‘Z//7%/Z/Z/./7/YZ//7%/‘Z/_K/Z/‘Z/Z//VIZ

Halloween

Don't eat any poison apples

 

I."/7/' X/[/K/".€//7_/7/7/7/7£//7/7/7_/YZ/‘./7X/Z/K/[/[/[/.(€/

r—1:jZTZZZIfIjZZX1Zlf11T—

      

: VISIT US SOON -E
.  I
g 10% on LONGJOHN I
I d It e I h H SILVERS. :
anya U m a purc ase ' ‘
H W&LStudent|.D.card mustbeshowntocashier. R
H Not valid with any other Rt 505 I
I coupon or discount 4636086 I

canny
2'3

33

    

lllititutrtg Eitrhm

AN OLD FASHIONED BAKERY
EAT IN on TAKE Our

8 North Main St.

Lexington, VA 24450 703-463’-*9‘

‘.'7£"." 'I'-ti-’?;f\’r\\»'.‘J.~ ‘

'Kﬂ—mia/

norm &' nmzn. mc.

I6 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450

  

463-7969

 
 

        

Weatherby® -Remington®
Browning® - Mossberg®
We will not be undersold

by anyone!

FREE

Scope Mount & Bore,
Sighting with purchase.

Best price_s on Hunting
Equipment & Clothing too!

 

it (‘(‘.\1.-\
S|'7(IIl\(il'Ctl h_\ the Ncxnnun (‘oirrrrrttirily

     
   

(‘titlrolic (‘;tnrpu.x MiIll.\lI‘_\

nunrmenunrmag
18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington 463-1800

RT  BOX 379
LEXINGTON VA 24450

LEE

Lcc Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lcc Hi Truck Parts
Lcc Hi Wrecker Service
Lcc Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

BOBBY BERKSTRE SSE F:

iii

1-803-76,8-LEHI

Liaxmerou
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

    
  
         
      
  

Aerobics ; Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

Our Mother
Who Art In Heaven ? ?

Join us as we meet to discuss the feminine images of
God. Open to all women students, faculty, and staff of
the W&L community. Wednesday nights at 6:30 p.m.,
Arlington Women’s Center.

For more ll1f()l‘ll1(lll()l1 call 463-3873

23 N. Main St. (703) «assess

 
   
      
       

We Buy Used CD’s
Cash Offers

All Items Discount Priced
Collectible LP’s In Stock

11 S. Randolph St., Lexington
464-4050

Open Noon Until 9:30 p.m.
Monday through Saturday

 

  

 

  

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

SEWANEE, Tenn, _ For the fade pass into the end zone to Greg able to get behind him.” 
Washington and Lee football team, Glover, who had scored on the Martin looked up into the sun 14
it was a uniquely pleasant weekend same play in the first quarter. This and came down with the ball in the , 
jouniey to Sewanee, Tenn. time, sophomore. comerback Fred end zone for a 38-yard touchdown, '._.«,

The Generals prepered for the Reiineker stepped in front of Glover and W&L led for good 20-17. .L,_:-.
matchup with a stop in Knoxville and intercepted the pass for a Sampson, kicking in place of junior , -_.
on the way to Sewanee Friday touchback. Carter Quayle, who missed the 3‘
afternoon. W&L practiced in the After the teams exchanged punts, game becuase of the ﬂu, converted . ‘.3-_.
92,143 seat Neyland Stadium on the W&L took over at their own 36 for his third extra point of the day to I ,..-_-i
campus of the University of what would prove to be the game- give the Generals a 21-17 margin of ta-~.,«
Tennessee. Practice and the weather winning drive. Junior tailback Victory. .-;i
made the trip unique. Mason Pope started things off with “When I looked back, Phillip i‘;,-

The temperature was already at

38 degrees when the team took the quarterback Phillip Sampson then “Then I had to look back into the 
field, and a series of on—and—off found classmate Russell Crosby for Sun for the ball, and found it just as 
snow ﬂurries didn't help matters. It eight yards and a first down. it got to me.” Y n;
was the earliest snowfall in the state Two plays later, Pope converted Renneker sealed the Tigers fate 
of Tennessee since 1913. a third down and one into a first On their ensuing driV°- Sewanee   v » . V  ~-  V.)
On Monteagle Mountain, where down with a five ard run to the m0V6d upfield to the W&L 43, but ‘ ' - in an 3  _
Sewanee is located, it snowed Sewanee 38, wliere Sampson Th0mPS0n Pitilted On Ronnekor once  ‘*‘Fﬁ’ : la‘
enough to make snowballs. worked his magic. Sampson had too Oftcn. and Ronnokor halllod in »  V '. _ i ‘tr;
Temperature at game time on senior tight end Bob Martin run a his Second interception of the day,  “Ti” 
Saturday was in the upper 60s. ten-yard curl pattern, pump-faked killing the Tigers hopes for their ‘ .J.
The Generals waited until late the ball to bring the free safety out first Win Of the Year. 35 P0P6 and »,i~.-
Saturday afternoon, though, to of position, and lofted a pass as the 0ff6nS0 ground Ollt tho rest Of '

provide the highlight of the trip.
Trailing the Sewanee Tigers 17-14

going into the fourth quarter, things Said W&L head coach Gary finished, as Sewanee C0ntr0ll6d r6C6iV6rS. On the drive, Sampson lead on a 36-yard field goal by the w&L ono_ya,d lino, setting tho it...
did not look [00 bright for the Fallon’ “Bobby and phil got things for trhhe fir? two andka htéllllf threw to seven different receivers to Mark Peters, Pope gave W&L the stage for secondary mate Remcker. y,__,u
Generals. Sewanee fullback Mark together on that play_ It wasn't quarters 5 ig¢r5 “)0 3 rn0Ve the Oifcnse. including a 14- lead on a two-yard dive over the “prod Ronnoker and Brad Miller, 3.
Barineau had run through the intended to go that long. Bobby told Openiiig kiC_k°ff and marched 71 Yard strike i° .l“iii°i' Sliiii end Craig Pile» the three passes they picked off i
)Ger(i1erals dglfensg for 120 tohf hi; 195 mg on the sideline thfilil dthe free ¥;i;i:;pS;°1°r$8Gﬁ:iver3 toP3:5iveir‘t’£i:ei ;rt_3‘r’1S 0;} f011Ir)ti1'anti‘i[1ﬂt10 1:9? the 0311 Sewanee’s knloxil P055eS5i0ﬁ1. couldn’t have been timed apxy 9...}
ar 5 on 5 33’. an 6 igers sa ety was coming up ar , and if ii ° ‘iiV°- 0P‘? g0 *3 eneras the iers were oc 'ng on te b tt ," ‘cl F11 . “I think te 
were driving again. we punip-faked it, he would be the Tigers an early lead. on the board with a one-yard dive door, oily to be turned away at the o:eerthatsalBrada iiriiitercepted‘ down iﬂnj.‘
After a 20-yard completion from only one who could stop n. 1 W&L marched right back over the pile. ono-ya,-d line by junior safety Brad [here really gave us a big lift and .; ._,.;
quarterback Scott Thompson to wide wasn't too in favor of it because we though, led by Sampson's bevy of After Sewanee took a halftime Miller, who made an interception at D Please See RENNEKER page 8 ‘VJ 0‘
I {m »‘ pi
— Cross countr runs ast ODAC 
Y ‘\
. _ foes in convincing fashion 
By Chris Bamdel ranklefclleteag in [$116 cast. _I as the Generals scored eight unan- was primed to extract some revenge.  _ ‘ Junior Cecil T an _ "'
ener s swam eas ‘ a an
Staff Reporter . 1)’ swered goals in the first quarter. It However, the Generals proved F,-om Staff Reports aced m G y yli 3. ' .»..~-.
through the first tW0 games Of the was the fourth time this year that equal to task of defeating the Spi— pf 22 6 enemls with a “me 1
tournament. They disposed of Uni— W&L has beaten L onbnrg. d _ ° 349- Classmate Shawn Wert ‘
The Washington and Lee water versity of North Carolina-Wilming- Juniors Jon Sibnar and James ersW&L survived a fourth quarter It was anmher successful led a pack of four Generals who 7":
P010 team 3C°°rnPiiSh€‘i its °bleCiiV° t0n in th3 first game 133- Dunlevy each had four goals to letdown to hang on for an 11-9 tri- Ivieeekend for the Washington and -mmfided out the top ten’ coming » "t“"
last weekend in Richmond by beat— Sophomores Alan Herrick and pace the scoring. Both Smith and h. D ‘ ‘ b 6 cross comm)’ i°iimS- in Ounh wiiii 3 time Of 23545, ” ‘ ‘i
ing the host school to reach the Jay Smith each scored three goals. Davis Conn-ibntod hat nicks’ and gcngged thig: gv:):TSa§§;n,hS:i::rirda:r:: Both then men and womenvs followed by juniors Heather - V-
ﬁnal of the Southern Tournament. Classmate Will Davis also had a senior Randall pcarson and Sopho_ in the tournament and t. d H . k teams proved to be rude hosts to Jenkins and Laura Dodge and
However, getting there was all pair, as did junior Tomas Perez. mores Stu Towns and seott Miller for the team lead in lsetoais er\:,iiC[h Old Dominion Aiiiieiic C°iif°i' s°Ph°’.“°’° Sarah Whiisem i’
the fun. The Generals were routed The score was deceptively close as had two goals each_ foul-_ senior co_oap[ain Shawn ence foes Bridgewamr and _ Said Piieinister, “We ran »a 1
by the University of Arkansas at the Generals were in command The semiﬁnal game pined W&L Copeland came U with his best ef_ Emory & Henry» Winning both wiihoui s°m° ‘ii ‘iii’ runners: but 3'
Little ROCK, l0Sing th¢ Championship thr0t1gh three quarters. UP 12-5. Un- against Richmond, one of their most fort as well scoriiig three goals meets in Convincing fashion. everyone picked up the slack. ‘v
game 20-2. til Wilmington salvaged some pride bitter rivals, in the Spiders’ home However, the Generals nearly let a Head Coaiih Jim Pllemisieris They have an bee." greavi rim’
“Arkansas hasmthe bestfvyjater with some meaningless ﬁnal quarter pool. W&L had already beaten 10-5 lead slip away in the ﬁnal w0ThenOf)°XiC1n:eddiIPeir assaug Wad: [Shel Wm}; the women Vim’
polo team outside e state 0 ali— goals. R‘ hm d 1' [hi - m _ “W . on e y eeating E& rn°Ve 0 - Ont 6 Season. all} .'
fomia,” asserted W&L head coach‘ The second game was even easi- ﬁnial; ((:l'1theeai\I1jbc;nna_is;)aitiioarc}i1Iia,npiii: quaner 6 were in control’ but and BC by respective scores of Q please see cc page 7  -
Page Remillard. UA'~LR 1S'1l16 top" «er. fW&L tattooed Lynchburg 23-8 onshipsy and their conference foe Q pjease see poLo page 8 26'43'5i- .

W&L
Bookstore

Open
Saturday
1 0-4

It doesn’t take an
Einstein to ﬁgure

out now’s the time

to buy your college
ring. Choose a ring
from a company with a

“numb
mwmmma,
the best deal on gold.

real genius for designing the
hottest-looking styles for

SPORTS

receiver Tony Neill on third down
and 17, Barineau ran the Tigers
down to the W&L 10 yard line. On
second down, Thompson threw a

a conservative four-yard gain. Senior

Martin broke open toward the end
zone.

   

   

SPRING BREAK I990

    
  
   
  

lndivldual or student organization
needed to promote our Spring Break
Trips. Earn money. free trips and
valuable work experience. Apply
Now! Call liiter—Caiiipus programs l-
800-327-(i()l 3

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26,‘ 1989

Generals beat early snow and Sewanee

had never really practiced it.

“We called the play though, and
when Phillip pumped it, the safety
came ﬂying up, and Bobby was

didn’t have the ball," said Martin.

the clock.
The game didn’t start out like it

   
  

   
   
  

Would you like to offer

Discover Credit Cards ?

Are you available for only a few hours a
week‘? If so. call l-800-932-0528. ext.
34. Well pay you as much as $10/hr.
Only [0 positions available,

   

 
 

\"¢*<; ,.

.. ' . - . . h d .
saveupioiso ..  -tr — 
011  Rings  j_ ' it i_ ArtCarved gold ring

   
   
    
  
  
  
 

   
 
   
 
   
  
  
  

 

  

speaking,

time to buy your
college ring. Ask how
you can save on gold

is so superbly
crafted it’s protected
by a Full Lifetime

Warranty Now’s the

accessories, too.

 

 

 
  
 
    

W&L's football team takes time to form the W&L
Trident before Friday's practice at the University

  
 
  
  

    
  

of Tennessee's Neyland Stadium on the way to
their game with Sewanee. Photo by John Durant.

  Take Your Parents

Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

 

-\,:_.a’..'. '

  
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
     
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
    
      
    
     
   
   
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
    
    
  
    
    
      
   
     
  
   
  
 

ow‘?

  
 
 

    
 
 

  
   
     

 
  
   
       
  
  
  

    
  

  
     
   

  

RVED

COLLEGE JEWELRY

     
  

/l RTC/l

Oct. 26-28

 
 
   

 
   
  
 

© l‘B9AKlCARVH)

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

Bookstore l0ain-2pm

    
  

   
  

Deposit Required

Payment Plans Available -  

 
 

  

 

it

'4

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26, 1989

B31» Holly Goodlng
Staff Reporter

* The Washington and Lee
wt.7nen’s soccer team isn’t quite
ready to call it a season.

?Tuesday, the Generals upset Ro-

anoke College H) in overtime in

the? first round of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament and

~ advanced to the semiﬁnals.

{In perhaps their most satisfying
game of the year, the Generals, who
had been plagued by an inability to
put‘ the ball in the net, overcame
their offensive shortcoming. Fresh-
1 an Andrea Cardamone scored the

1;; goal of the game during the

. overtime period, and the Gener-
scored a huge upset in a game
that everyone was sure they would
lose — everyone, apparently, but the
Getierals.

j“It was awesome,” said coach
Jan Hathom. “The team was ready,
and they went out to win. They had
great composure. [Sophomore] Ash-
ley Gray had her best game ever,
and! she turned it around for us.
From that point on, we were in the
ganle.

(‘We wanted it more. It was ob-
vious that we were the team that
warllted to win," she said. “It was
desire that won that game."

The Generals finished up their

orlie schedule Oct. 19 by defeating
arc -rival Hollins College 3-0. W&L
did not allow Hollins a single shot
on goal. .

The first score of the game came

abolit forty minutes into the first
alf‘, when senior Sarah Allen put
the ball into the net unassisted for
ei Generals. Sophomore Ann
hagighnessy put a second mark on
e scoreboard about fifteen minutes

§Soccer tops anoke 1-0

Freshman Andrea Cardamone in action against
Randolph-Macon Woman's College earlier this
year. Cardamone scored the only goal in W&L’s

into the game. The final goal for
the Generals was scored by Card-
amone, off of a direct kick by soph-
omore Ashley Hurt, with about
twenty minutes remaining.

The victory was especially grati-
fying for the seniors, who have seen
some very tough losses to Hollins
in the past, and who, according to
Hathom, “all played well.” Hath-
om especially cited the play of
Hurt, classmate Katie Seeman, and

senior Catherine Baillio.

“We played great as a team,”
said Hathom. “It was an awesome,
wonderful game.”

Saturday the Generals traveled to
Wheeling, W.Va., to take on Wheel-
ing College, where they suffered a
4-0 loss. Junior goalie Sherri Brown
recorded eleven saves in a losing
effort.

Hathom said the Generals are
looking forward to the next rounds

1-0 upset of Roanoke College in the first round
of the ODAC tournament on Tuesday. W&L file
photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

of playoffs, to be played this week-

end in Ashland at Randolph-Macon,
where they will face the host Yel-
low Jackets, one of the strongest
teams in the conference. And
Hatliome said her team is ready to
record another upset.

“We have absolutely nothing to
lose and we’ll go like gangbusters
after it,” she said.

it A _k H
v ' the way fol’ W&L With 3 er, “We have proven that we will take on ODAC rivals East-
1 P37501131 record °f 29:35 0“ me have ﬁve guys with the talent em Mennonite and Harnpden-
W&L C011Ts6- Classmate Charles that could make the team highly Sydney. For the women, the
"hm P399 5 Edwards was the second W&L ODAC title will be on the line

vl
The men improved their re-
 cdrd to 5-3 with a 15-50-75 win

3; oyer Bridgewater and Emory and

} Henry.
isophomore Lee Parker led

runner to finish, with a time of
30:04. Senior co-captain Joe
Geitner and freshmen Bo
Hannah and Keith Rinn rounded
out W&L’s top five.

Said head coach John Tuck-

competitive. The trick is to get
everyone running their best at
the same time, and we haven’t
done that yet.”

Both teams will run at home
again this weekend. The men

as they square off against Mary
Baldwin and ODAC leader East-
ern Mennonite Saturday on the
W&L course. Both meets start at
11 a.m.

W&L—BC: fast 1988 finish
not forgotten in 1989

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Late fall is the time for the premier football rivalries.

Seldom do you see a game the caliber of a Notre Darne-USC or an
Oklahoma-Nebraska or an Alabama-Aubum or a USC-UCLA clash early
in the year. All these games are extremely physical and emotional with
the outcome usually decided on the final possession.

On Saturday, Washington and Lee and Bridgewater will tee the ball up
to renew what has developed into a first rate-rivalry.

Close, hard hitting games make for better rivalries, and last season’s
W&L-Bridgewater clash not only fit the rivalry bill, it fit the bill and
then some. Not only was the action on the ﬁeld highly contested and
intense, but the press box saw some heated moments, as did the locker
room after the game.

Bridgewater took a 10-7 lead with 1:21 left in the fourth quarter. W&L
then went on perhaps its most impressive drive of the season.

The drive started on the W&L 33 with 1:21 left, and quarterback
Phillip Sampson threw the Generals down the field in impressive fashion.
On the first play, Sampson hooked up with Craig Irons for 16 yards to
midfield. After three straight incompletions, Sampson and the Generals
were faced with a fourth and 10.

Sampson found a diving Chris Acebal for 12 yards to keep the drive
alive. A 23-yard strike to Carl Gilbert got the ball inside the Bridgewater
20, and another strike to Irons got the ball to the five. On first and goal,
W&L wasted no time. Sampson went to his favorite target, and Irons
came up with a diving catch in the end zone for a 14-10 W&L lead with
just 32 seconds left.

The game wasn't over. Head coach Gary Fallon recalled a game
against Randolph-Macon a few years ago when his team scored a go-
ahead touchdown with 32 seconds to go, and lost the game as R-MC
drove down the ﬁeld and scored with two seconds left to steal victory
from the jaws of defeat, so to speak.

With 32 seconds to go and W&L to kick off, Fallon's thoughts turned
to that Macon game. When Carter Quayle's kick bounced off an Eagle
return man and W&L recovered, Fallon let off a tremendous sigh. There
would be no miracle comeback this time.

The W&L comeback would not have been possible if not for the
timely play of linebacker Tom Skeen. Skeen came up with two
interceptions in the final period, one saving a touchdown in the end zone.

In the press box, the W&L radio crew of Jim Lake, Hayward Lee and
Mike Shady and Sports Information Director Mike Stachura were placed
next to the Bridgewater school president, who turned out to be an avid
and adamant Eagle supporter, often venting his emotion on the radio
crew. The Bridgewater SID was put in an almost helpless position, as he
could not tell his employer to “please tone it down a bit.” He
apologized later for the president, not on his behalf.

‘That brings us to football season 1989. W&L comes into the game
with a 4-3 record, Bridgewater is 34. But as in every other good rivalry,
throw the records out the window - they don’t apply for now.

Fallon has told his team that he expects a donnybrook. Bridgewater
certainly hasn't forgotten last year’s game, and any W&L football player
will tell you that last year’s win was the highlight of the season.

The major thing I feel will decide the game. It is Parents’ Weekend at
W&L. Under Fallon, the Generals are 8-3 on Parents’ Weekend.

Prediction: In another hotly contested, physical contest, the parents will

pull the Generals through. W&L by a touchdown in front of the home
folks, 21-14.

Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture

1 15 S. Main St., Lexington

463-2 742

Lldenorlzl

__lleadquartors_

 

SAB presents

Wildgrass

in concert

Friday, October 27
9-11:30 p.m.

Free Hors d'oeuVres

R E M I N D E R!
GHQ Tavern open
Saturday Lunch

11:30-1:30

PARENTS

3 Gift Baskets Umlimiter)
l ' delivers homemade goodies to students

|’

Birthday & Specialty Cakes

’Baskets with homemade cookies and Candies. jams and jellies. gifts

and novelties.

Stop in Saturday 10 a. m. — 4 p.m.

19 South Randolph St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(703) 463-6696

(across from Sycamore Farms)

ftnzﬂtxisine

I All IIUSIWEIE SIIIEK
‘bntupon olqulllyhof
STEAK! 0 SEAKDD 0 CHICKEN
GIIEKI ITALIAN SPIHZIALTIBS
~ cnnmnnuvu.

LEW}!-I.

‘ u-1.13:-5,
31; “

acacia 810.3‘ lliifﬂ.

Artists in Cahoots

(«mpcr,il|\t' (l.|llCl) ill’ l.(K'.il x\rl|\l\ & (‘riillx Pcoplt‘
Handcraftedsilverand

 

. _- - / ‘\
' Corner of Washington at Main Sis.
Lexington
Open 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Mon.-Sat.
Visa & Master Card accepted

Cruise Ship Jobs

HIRING Men - Women. Summerl
Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS,
OUR GUIDES. RECREATION PERSONNEL.
Excellent ay plus FREE travel. Caribbean.
Hawaii, ahamas, South Pacific, Mexico.
CALL NOW! Call refundable.
1-206-736-0775, Ext. 1205J

 v/ v/////

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

. Nationwide is on your side

  )

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN
Agent
203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

HELP
WANTED

L , Spanky’s Now Hiring:

HANG
THE

MOON‘
O

Glow—in—the—dark
planets and constellations
especially designed
for indoor viewing.

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 AM - 8 PM
Sunday Noon - 6 PM

You Deserve to be in Paradise!

Jewelry 0 Books - Tapes
Crystals 0 Calendars 0 Stuffed Anlrnals
Candles 0 Clothing 0 Cards

16North Main St./Lexington, VA
703-464-1800

0 Waiter & Waitresses
0 Deli Cooks
0 Cashier
0 Bartender
0 Part time or full time

Apply in Person
No phone calls

110 S. Jefferson St.

PLEASE JOIN US!

Prof. Lamar Cecil will be signing his book Wilhelm
ll: Prince & Emperor, 1859-1900.

University Library - Boatwright Room
Sponsored by W&L Bookstore.

Friday, Oct. 27th
4:30 - 5:30 p.m.

W&L SNACK BAR WELCOMES

PARENTS & ALUMNI

Open Saturday 10-4

SATURDAY SPECIAL: Frozen Yogurt 59° or 1/2 pt.

November Special-of-the-Month (Nights Only):
Roast Beef Sandwich - $1.59 or 1-1/2 pts.

.1‘
¥
9
'.

'W
«

‘____._,.. 1-a-11

my , , , ,, _x, .. , , —.;-.~:.r...-..a..e.o..i-...a.4.u,-<¢.n.s.in;:,~A—HAA-D4&-
I'l.A.L.A‘:ﬁ4t§ ...... .... _

  
   

 

-.~---a~u.—u.-.-rs~. 0; ‘.‘:"TG_p‘Q"'§‘L ;~.~:‘z;a-  -s-4.-o’»'a'4‘.»' rd‘: ‘-.'4'-’:¢'¢’e'-1?a'4’t"5’€’*""?"ll"*"“‘f'§5"5‘~‘7”""§ '

    

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26, 1989 .

RENNEKER

Men win ODAC title

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The men’s soccer team won the
regular season Old Dominion Atlilet-
ic Conference championship yester-
day with a 2-0 victory over Ran-
dolph-Macon, only their second road
win of the season. The title was
W&L‘: second in the last five
years. The Generals won the corifer-
ence title in 1985.

W&L, 7-5-2 (4-1-1 in the
ODAC), will host the four-team
ODAC post-season tournament to-
morrow and Saturday. l-Iarnpden-
Sydney, Lynchburg and Virginia
Wesleyan also qualified for the tour-
narnent.

Yesterday's victory was the sec-
ond straight road win for the Gener-
als. On Saturday, W&L earned their
first road win of the season with a
3-2 win over Washington College,
after losing ﬁve away games and
tying one.

Saturday’s victory in Chester-
town, Maryland, pushed the Gener-
als’ record above the .500 mark for
the first time this season since the
5-3 win over Deriison in W&L’s
home opener.

More importantly, Saturday's
win proved to the Generals that they
can be successful on the road. Their
new-fourid success carried over into
yesterday's game in Ashland, Vir-
giriia.

Randolph-Macon, 6-8-3 (1-3-2 in
the ODAC), a former top-20 Divi-
sion II power, joined the ODAC
this season. The .Yellow Jackets
were coming off of an impressive
2-1 win over Mary Washington, the
top ranked team in the South. Mary
Washington tied W&L on Home-

  

    
    

WELCOME TO
PARENTS WEEKEND 1989

@M~ 

Cﬂality Onjck Drint, Ink.

for all student printing needs
214 South Main Street, Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9232
,  .,coi2ies,s..ct=.trrs.  . .
V  6 Post'cards*rstation‘ery‘ - Party Fliers
Formal & lntormal Invitations - Newsletters

coming Weekend.

Yesterday, the Generals’ goals
were scored by two freshmen. With
7:15 remaining in the first half,
Kyle Farming netted his first goal of
the season on an unassisted shot to
put W&L up 1-0. One ntinute lat-
er, Mike Hill scored an unassisted
goal to give the Generals a 2-0
lead, a margin that held for the rest
of the match.

Senior goalkeeper Jack Pringle
registered his first shutout of the
season (the 10th shutout of his ca-
reer), arid collected 10 saves. Ran-
dolph-Macon launched 20 shots at
the goal, while W&L had 19 shots.

On Saturday, Washington Col-
lege had a 2-0 lead in the second
half. Their first goal was sent past
Pringle after a breakaway down the
left side.

In the second half, the Shoremen
scored again when the W&L de-
fense delivered a weak pass back to
junior goalie Jon Bull. The ball was
intercepted and Washington College
scored on a two—on-one situation to
take a 2-0 lead and apparently ex-
tend W&L’s road woes.

The Generals started to make
their comeback from the two goal
deﬁcit when the Shoremen altered
their play in the middle of the field.

Give W&L’s midfield room to
play and they will make things hap-
pen. The Shoremen quickly learned
as they watched their lead slowly
melt away.

The Generals started on the
comeback trail when senior Rick
Silva was tripped in the penalty
box. Awarded a penalty shot, Silva
sent the free kick straight into the
middle of the net. The Shoremen’s
goalie had gone to the right side,

COMMONS

Lexingtons First Condominium Community

0.. ..
oasis um

 

OPEN HOUSE
Oct. 28, Sat., 10 A.M. — 1 P.M.

Variety of Floor Plans

Studio, One and Two Bedroom
Priced From $29,000 - $69,000

Buy Now For 1990

(Limited Number Available)

DIRECTIONS: West on Nelson St. to caution light. left on Borden Rd. One block on right.

Baker Real Estate

703-463-7319

 
 
   
  
 

anticipating that Silva would again
aim for the right post.

With about 20 minutes left in the
match, the Washington College de-
fense gave W&L’s cause a huge
lift. Fanning was pressuring a
defcnseman, who tried to pass the
ball back to his keeper. The pass
missed the keeper and rolled into
the net with the keeper and senior
Scott Levitt in pursuit. The rarity is
known as an “own goal," and this
one tied the game at 2-2.

The Generals got the road mon-

key off their backs with six minutes‘

left. Freshman Mike Mitchem sent a
crossing pass from the left endline
to Levitt, who sent a left-footed vol-
ley into the back of the net. Levitt’s
goal proved to be the garne-winner
and snapped the Generals season-
long road woes.

In the first post-seasori ODAC
tournament, W&L will play host to
arch-rival Harnpden-Sydriey tomor-
row at 3 p.m. on Liberty Hall Field,
a.k.a. the Field of Doom. The Gen-
erals are unbeaten playing on the
Liberty Hall Field with a 5-0-1
mark, the lone non-win being the tie
with Mary Washington. W&L de-
feated H-SC earlier this season 2-0
on goals by senior Patrick Brown
and sophomore Chris Miyarnoto.

Lynchburg and Virginia Wesley-
an will play at 1:00 Friday after-
noon, before the W&L-H-SC clash.
Lynchburg handed W&L their only
conference loss during the year and
Virginia Wesleyan played the Gen-
erals to a tie.

The winners will meet on Satur-
day at 11:30 for the tournament
championship. The winner of the
tournament will receive an automatic
bid to the NCAA Division III tour-
nament.

from page 6 -

shifted the momentum a little bit."

Barineau regained the lead for
the Tigers on a tliree-yard run, but
Renrieker and the defense held firm
until Sampson could put the
Generals into the end zone late in
the game.

Said Fallon, “I thought we had
our best offensive line performance
of the year. They were really
getting after Sewanee‘s defensive

people. ’ '
The offensive line of juniors
Frank Sudell, Rob Christensen,

Mike DeMelfi, and Rob Roberton
and sophomores Jim Henry and
Robert Thomas opened the way for
Pope to gain over 100 yards for the
second tirrie this season and allowed
only one sack of Sampson.

Senior linebacker Mike Pack led
the team in tackles with 15 on the
afternoon, and Miller and Rermeker

Washington andLee 0 7 7 7
Sewanee 7 3 7 0

-- 21
-- 17

Sewanee-Glover 8 pass from Thompsm (Peters
kick)

W&L-Pope 1 run (Sampson kick)

Sewanee-Field goal Paar: 36

W&L-Pope 2 run (Sampson kick)
Sewanee-Barineau 3 run (Peta: kick)
W&L-Maru'.n 38 pan fruri Sampson (Sampsm
kick)

I
lndlvldual Rushing
W&L-Pope 30 carries-lll yards, Crosby 2-5,
Kreia 2-10, Sampson 5-(-7). Jackson 1-(-1).
Sewanee-Barineau 30-195, Broom 9-ﬂ, Therap-
son 6-(-3).
Individual Passing
W&L-S 20 canpldona-37 attempts-1
interception-183 yards. Sewanee-Tﬁrnpron 9-20-
34%.
Individual Recelvlng

W&L-Martin 6 catches-79 yards, Irons 5-44,
Pope 3-l7, Crosby 2-15, Hodges l-7, Acebal 1-4,
Kreir l-8, Jackson 1-9. Sewauee-Rd: 3-51,
Glover 3-25, Neill 1-10, Shoop 1-7, Broom 1-3.

   

     
  

  

\*l

167 S. Main St.

bill home to you!

 F ‘.0 llt Illa )-Ice

Welcome Parents

Stop by and open up a charge account for your
students this weekend. We carry a complete line of
fresh meats and groceries and will be glad to send the

Serving the W&L Community for over 35 years.

 

Fred Renneker

...picks off two passes

delivered drive-stopping interceptions
to spark the defense.

The Generals, 4-3 overall and 1-
2 in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference play, return home for
Parents’ Weekend to play host to
conference rival Bridgewater.

The Generals received good news
on the injury front after the
Sewance game. Senior comerback
Bland Warren, who has missed the
last two games with a neck
problem, is about 95 percent
probable to play, said Fallon.

Game time is set for 1:30 at
Wilson Field. The W&L Sports
Network (WLUR-91.5 and WREL-

 

l:O_|:O  :

Richmond kept up the intensity and
we didn't," Rernillard_ said.
The final game was a disastsr

for W&L. Arkansas is a team I
loaded with foreign players, and _

their superior skill level and strengili
played a large part in the defeat. ,»

However, Remillard was
convinced that the international style
of play allowed by the officiatirrg
crew contributed to the outlandish
final score. The physical style of
play punished the Generals, wh
rely on their superb team speed to
win games. ;

“It was the roughest game I've
been involved in the last threb
years," he said, adding that thg
tighter the game was called, the
closer the final score would my!
been

His greatest concern after thh
tournament, though, was not
Arkansas. It was the letdown against
Richmond that weighed heavily oi.
his mind. “Tire next time we plan
them, its for real,” he said. “The
loser of that game [in the
conference tournament] doesn’t g,
to postseason play. I'm confiden
that next time Richmond will by
better,’ and we will be too."

This weekend the Generals hosf
the annual Washington and Lee
Invitational for their first action in
Cy Twombly Pool in almost twdi
months. The main attraction shoul
be Saturday afternoon against Johns
Hopkins at 5:30, after the football.
game.

Said Remillard, “We’d like it?
see a big crowd there, to let us,

1450) will have all the action know that the students are following
starting at 1:15. the team.” i
1 1 T Z 11if?1Z11ZZZiZ11Z1Z1?11T?i?':P|
W&L vs. JHU 5:30 Saturday. BE THERE. vi

  
 
 
  
  
    

     
 

 

  

Va

    

  

   
 
  

Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.

Incorporated

Public Finance Division

‘ ‘Now hiring an Analyst.’ ’

Interested students graduating in Fall or Spring
with a Business or Accounting Degree should for-
ward their resumes to:

Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.

Incorporated

Public Finance Division c/0 Duane D. Draper
One Tampa City Center - Suite 3500
Tampa, Florida 33602

Candidates should have a 3. 5 GPA or higher.

 .

  

Sherry, Angie, Rita and Kelly would
like to welcome all students to

* Shear Timing

Family Hair Care

Where we provide you with all your hair care
services and tanning
Call or stop by for an appointment 1. 1
_ , ,     A: ‘"15-'>>
17 S. Randolph St.
(Across from Sycamore Farm Market)

1 : : : : : : : : : : : : 1 1 11:21:11 : : 1 1 1 1 1"“—1

*(.\(.\C\s

  

‘C\C‘€‘¢‘6Yc'-:

 
  
  
 
   
 

 
   

I
u . - so
so

0. as

     
   
    
 
  
  

   
     
     
  
    
 
   
     
 
       
       
     
  
    

 

i

 W&L|FE

9 The Ring-tum Phi, October 26, 1989

~ C

The spirits of Lexington

.3, ..

W&L ‘Weekly Calendar

¢.

 
  
  
   

 

‘Q’

spent the last few days utilizing our efficient

' library staff. They helped me pour over old

newspaper clippings, out-dated alumni magazines
and numerous books on ghosts. I consulted
books on Southern ghosts, Virginia ghosts, and
even Confederate ghosts. I talked with professors
who together represent over 100 years of Wash-
ington and Lee history. I even begged Captain
Peniston to reveal any tales of specters in the
basement of Lee Chapel. My search did not
divulge one Washington and Lee horror story. It
appears that we do not have a ghost on the
campus.

Yet my article is not a complete waste for I
can tell you about phantoms that are alleged to
haunt the surrounding city. Granted they are not
W & L ghosts, but these ghouls still might pro-
vide you with a little excitement come Hallow-
een. My information comes from the book The
Gentle Ghosts: Legends of the Historical Shenan-
doah Valley. The book was written by one-time
Lexington resident Anne McCorkle Knox.

Let us first turn our attention to the cadets of
the Virginia Military Institute. Washington and
Lee is older than V.M.I, but those lucky guys

Knox writes that a few cadets declare that
they have heard mysterious noises in Jackson
Memorial Hall. The Hall contains a large mural
of the Battle of New Market. One night a cadet
fell asleep in the Hall, and he was accidentally
locked in the building. The cadet claims that the
mural came to life — its ﬁgures began to move
and the sounds of battle echoed in Jackson Me-
morial Hall. The story is still well—known to
cadets.

Finally, Knox informs her readers that some
say that the ghost of William M. Simpson, class
of 1924, can be spotted on the V.M.I. parade
grounds. Simpson was a sculptor, and there is a
monument on the parade grounds that bears his
art work. Knox writes that when darkness falls
over the grounds, people claim that the ghost of
Simpson is seen lingering near his artwork.

But the Virginia Military Institute doesn‘t
have a monopoly on Lexington ghosts. Knox’s
book also spins tales of spirits that prowl the
streets of _Lexington. She tells the story of a
Washington and Lee student that once lived in
an apartment behind the modem—day Rockbridge
County Court House. The student was an adopt

stands the Reid-White house. Knox writes that
the former head of the Washington and Lee
University library, Henry Coleman, claimed to
hear a ghost and witness its destruction. While
staying alone in the house one night,‘ Coleman
heard footsteps descending from the house’s attic
to the basement storage room. After several
metal objects were knocked over, Coleman says
he then heard the footsteps climb to the master
bedroom on the second floor. Coleman heard a
loud crash, followed by the footsteps once again
mounting the attic stairs. The final sound was
the slamming of the attic door. The next mom-
ing Coleman discovered that a painting in the
bedroom lay smashed on the floor. Knox writes
that if an intruder had climbed back into the
attic, he would have then found himself trapped;
there was no way to exit the attic “without
wings.” In later years children claimed to hear
footsteps in the Reid-VW1ite house. Are you still
going to mail letters late at night?

Perhaps the most famous Lexington ghost is
Phil Nurin. “The Castle” is on Randolph Street.
If you are standing in front of Sycamore Farms,
then the castle is the grey .stone building to your

\l
" By Todd Peppers

'4» , Staff Reporter ()t-tolu-r 27 to Nmutoliets

*  . "'“""I‘ ?“'."“""‘f" “'8': . .
‘ I ‘ on the evenins of Oct 20. I was walking to J  '“'.::;:::::x>.::.';;tﬁ'.).;:.:::;"::.:;;;';_i:m17:z(.:i::.*"'""'"W 
‘ti me mm. bus: was ramns over me campus. :,::,::: ‘.'I‘.:‘.“.i§i'.’.f.‘;
' 3" and I cold wind blew the scarlet and gold leaves ~..-i,...., \-lI.\‘(>.RV|'I4\_' sirmar.\ssoi'i.\'rui$ot1ax:ituist-.u...i..to......-. I
' ~ before me in ma... patterns. Dark storm  2.‘.I3‘..'.‘."..‘.‘.‘.‘.-':.'.c.‘..'.‘.ff

I ckmds ncgd ‘ﬂog ﬁg sky, anj the naked nee -mu IIp.ut kit":-:|'rtuxmaI-.\Itt:\‘is,i=uu\I>m-gII;itI.
‘E " branches seemed to matter as they slowly '

‘I swayed in the wind. The colorinade loomed  . _  _
«' ahead in the darkness, glowing like a ghostly  V»;....-......._~».-.....,....

, ,' IPPIfiti°|1- TM 01003 0“ M15 1-658 chattel bf°k° ‘i’..§J.'.."..'.'I." ';...I.T.‘I‘iT.‘iiL'.'.“€t’§3'J.I;.iil'.T'i7i.§i?'l§II.ii3'"""'
the night with its mom-nful tolling, I hunched Il;t.ni. \\:l)\lI:. _t'uos‘_.s_t'ix .\'i1t\.'.:i:.--.-i-..i.r-‘.1 t-;...:.~iu.\t.«u.l«u.-. mu ILII-Inuit
t" my shoulders against the wind and began to il;?iI:2:1!!: I?.‘?;'i'3iiZ{1’J;Zi.i'fJ§li.".f.L.iiiiilfil?"’"“'”““'"
t w-It f-m  :f;;"...s..':*;‘.':'.::;r::;:':c::::r.t:;::f.:wt~:.:~:::rs:."~'~""
I‘ As   Smies of  l‘i\Nl|.IlI. |’l..-\\'Ifhaillmlt.Wl:I]Y.;liI|l|\M':Ia‘I|I|:A‘lI}‘l|l:-I:iI;h'I:'|}'lTIlli’k'}:la'l.Il|l\i‘hIl}-“Ix'.Ill\' '
,' mansions, vengeful spirits and hideous witches _ "'""‘“"“""“"-‘““"“"'““““""-"‘"““”' I ’
_ begin to enter our conversations. Why are these ‘ ‘ I  ,  _ . .. ..       . . 

Q legends so popular? Perhaps it is human fascina- TY‘ ii '  ,...5,...,,,,,,—,,,_.',,_,,,  ’ ‘ ’ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘I
v “W Y’“*‘ W ".“°""° ms the sr°resqve- Maybe  C  . z,-C,  .’:‘i.‘.I".i'_.... :::x:':;t;:7.;::..::.:;,;'::::.:;:n.;;:;%*">  

, our |nl_cl'cSl8 in supernatural creatures spring   I V      4. 

t fromahope thatthereislife after death. During _///l,/_,/ // _ . 1 3, ‘I  /.  fw,  i’ .-  ,  _  _

.1  day we may scoff at the idea of ghostly j 1 -M-   V. g 9 V,‘ I  ./ﬂ 1.. I, p: 4......’ _<j1w:_J--mysmt/x...-gt..5..wv..;i.i....u...... IU'|.-|OIIu'I\l)('i'Ith1.

vnsnors. but a: mum. when we shadows ﬂu  /  p . _ _' y - . 12:13:: .'.'rl'i‘.‘.'..‘f5$:;i}:T§T!:::}.1:.:1.‘:“"..$..i".£:3:.l:.f1Z:?r;‘;1:'J:7?."2:i;.‘::;:£T.JJ:ii2";... ;
1 around the 100121, small doubts begin to creep  , I , I  : . , V . .It‘\\"ixh|_\-up}-,-_"MJl\'|€IlIs.Mm)ItnuIlS.-)uaIIiul'|‘|I\‘-tin“-AS«t!u'Ii.v\iuImwiiiIti. ,1
into ow  ' ‘ I v  ‘ I ‘( _ .24 ,_ _ .' . _ V, »_   , -_-= . g ‘ H llitirrrsity Ltl\r.uy.Puh|ti‘inult'tl. S‘
V After my chilly walk, I began to wonder if _ ‘ I‘
' Washington and Lee had any specters roaming cuses on a landmark quite familiar to Lexington people would stop in the streets to listen. The  w,fu.(i“,$,,.\,M,_,_,,.,,,,,,.,,.,,.,,,,
around the secluded night campus. We are the residents: the large female statue on the V.M.l. student had a dog, a black setter, who would lie mm. 11IwRr=;<w«_ng«--'.<Aug-amt-fat-wq.*uv-mm»-‘Iv-2-v-.
f sixth ol&st school in the country. And. I10 iIl'eV- campus. The graceful statue of a female sits and contentedly listen to his master play. Knox Wm’ m“mE‘M"'M' ‘Wm’ U""'""""""""
erence intended, the Lee family is literally upon a broken cannon, and stares with sorrowful writes that some still claim to hear the moumful .
buried in the school's front lawn. Are there eyes upon the slain soldiers of Virginia. The strains of the violin at night. They also claim to MID:-y cmtgr Mmvumlnemscwstatw-ccxisn--4->.<‘Im'<u-w-.
Washington and Lee stories, passed down from statue is entitled “Virginia Mourning Her see the ghostly figure of the little dog running iiiiiii  zuwmm
’8°ﬂ¢1'lli0ﬂ '0 Bﬂleflﬁmo Of Imexplainablc and Dea ,” and it rests near the graves of six fallen up the apartment stairs, and through a locked
supernatural events? cadets. Knox states that two ladies once claimed door, so that he can once again rest near his  _
Unfortunately, I must make a confession - that they heard the statue crying. They also said master. Some assert that you can spot the little ;|“"~ ""“'l"T.‘“""“""'.“""""“""""""'”"“""“""""“- .
. . . , _ _ |t.nI. POLI fI(.§ I-1l.MFl:§T: klF’HFl.'l>ﬂ (USA. l9N7). ICIIIIII Elli, Had Hall.
there are no ghosts at Washington and Lee. that their were tears streaming down her face. dog s footprints in the dust. xni... Pl.AY:'I'Ia~llml_vSIu:p.Univcrx'Iy1w:trc. A . I
None. Not even the ghost of Traveller. I have Are you scared yet? On Nelson Street, behind the p0st office, "*“"""" ‘“'5""“*““‘°‘"°“"““"“”“‘““t” ’ -“*"*""~“’-*"-*-"*'="I-h-"*~“="-"~-‘I-~'

I|:t.\'ics."' Nllﬂlcl Auirmiiuu, trnarmay inn,-. twat mu.-.i.

ram 1 H" rum] ‘
SWIMMING (W): Generals vs. Mary Baldwin. Twaohly l\iuI.

7:30 pm. RUSSIAN FILM: The Crane: we Flying (USSR. I957]. Ninth‘: /hdilumun.

7:30 p.in. LECTURE: "Matt: His Place in Ihc Universe.‘ Rev. E. Gnnat. Una Ki-«ya Myxtcry St-In--I.

duI‘onI Audiutrium. Public invited.

FILM SOCIETY: The Unhmmhle Lighlnxmt ‘nlﬂmtx (USA. WINII‘. (1:t<:DfIIi|i “A,” I‘.rv_t'ts’ ‘  - ' ~ "~

Hall. Public invited.
PLAY: Th: ll:-dy Shop. University ﬂicauc.

. I! B“ I H” "mill
All Day WATER POLO: Soulhcm Water Polo Ch.-ilnptollithipx. Tumilvly Pniil llhllmlill H/5L

FILM SOCIETY: "Ht: Unbmmhle Lighlnesrigfﬂuint-. Cl;is.~<moiu “A.“ l.L'\\'l\' llllll.
PLAY: ‘l'hr Body Shop. Univcvxiy The-.nrc.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: FOOTBALL: Ulsinux.

2:30 .in. RC-TS: ”(‘uppcli;i," the Richiltitnd Ilalkt. Lexington High School.
I7

FILM SOCII-.TY: [hr l/nlu-umhlr Lu'IIllt'.I.\ ilk:-int. ('I;nsruum,":\." Inn» |l;t|I.

rtxittstruiius

DUI’! )N'I‘ G.-\|.l.|'IIlV: "Paintings. lmttcilgx  Fadrlx hy William J. WlIIIc".tIluuugh Nua‘, I5). (IIIHAT)

limits arc ‘I .I.lII. to 5 pm. Mnaikty thmugh Fvilay. and fur l':t'i‘IL\" \l't'rli'iul. 0:311 turn. - Emu. S;tumIu_\
and Sunday. Athiixsiim is frrc. '

l’Nl\'l-‘.RSI'I‘Y I.lllR:\Il\'. MAIN I.l|II\': "llk 1'\a'iI(li1t1lcnIi1I 01 I‘.-n-nu: A .\'rlt\‘IonmvI Illa‘ l‘niu~mI_\

l.iI~rary's Print. Nun-prim. and Rare I|ultlingx" (Ihmugh Oraihtrl.

l'u\’l\'I-‘.RSI'l'V LIIIRAIIV. B0:\T\\’KIl3llT IIIIISI: "|’:Iallcl Lt'lIi'vi~-l‘.l:|lIt'l I.i\'i-.\: "Ilse ('urn~\putuk~Iu'i-

nl’ Lu‘ ‘.|I|tl .I;tckson" (Ihmugh Iamtuvyl. ll:-ms are 9 am. In 5 pm. .\|--nnh_\ lhnmgh I-‘ruler.

I.l-‘.\\'I.\‘ Il;\I.l.. (‘Ill-\|ll.I»I§ \’p\II.I. l.:\l’|3III.IN FACI'I.'l’\' LIIINICOZ: T tniulti-us: Arvylu Psunuigx on

rate a couple « goblins.— Anne Knox first fo-

,r:*- F 1 ﬁ;.t.;‘t

(':|II\".I.\ and Input by George Simp.~4In" tlllwugb ()1. 3| ).

« a

 

violinist who would play so beautifully“ that . L] mease see GHOSTS page 11 I

r~t4..'..-'-"~"... ....*-;.- 
.;s‘¢} ‘
.«.».

Welcome Parents

Alvin-Erttnia Still The Leading  
Men’s Clothin Store In Lexington .

.1

It.‘ SW \. .V\'i

\ . mu ‘,'t4‘~ 

. . the ~ c *4», +1
spa gr‘ ',;%§’:‘cl(—:l:'<r

-'t"'t.'+;¢_‘Li “"3
_A, llfbﬂf c‘ L

-s

 

sf 3";-‘V’ ,_ _

  

. on V ‘.-..« ‘we-,~a.~«.. -M.  i...-m»~.—:. 

:-

.......,~..._.V..
.—.-.a 

  All Suits 20% 0E 

 

iii . SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts

IZOD WOOLRICH, DEANS - Sweaters
 Chamois Shirts

~ I Long Sleeve Sport Shirts

Ti‘  IZOD & Topsider Raincoats

 W&L Ties

Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark’s

  . Herman Survivors

' = Corduroy Pants

Cashmere Topcoats

Alligator Belts

Wool Slacks I ‘
Duckhead Khaki’s

W&L Belts

After six Tuxedos

Formal Shirts

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Glﬂs

 

Free Gift Wrapping

t1itt—4Erttttia  

     

 Since 1953
A3’??? , STUDENT , p
._,:Z V's‘ CHARGE ACCOUNTS MASTER CHARGE CHI!
1
, t

 

 

1

 

‘White water mecca’

“lt gets me down sometimes,"
says the biology major, “but I
wouldn't trade it for the world.”I n

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26, 1989

   

BY Wendy W°'f°rd West Virginia is the
Staff Repm" mecca of the white
water world. That's
why about 31,000
people have rafted
it in the past six
weeks. I

— Mark Lubkowitz

guide must have three months train-
ing in river rescue, CPR and ad-
vanced life saving. But next to prac-
tical training, a sense of humor is
crucial, he adds.

“You’re dealing with people
who are in a totally foreign environ-
ment,” Lubkowitz notes. "When
they take a fall, you’ve got to bring
them out of the water with a joke
'to get rid of their fear."

Despite an occasional spill, Lub-
kowitz assures his customers that
rafting is not a suicide sport. In
working for a commercial outﬁtter,
safety comes first, he adds.

Not only is his weekend activity
much different from the W&L norm
but his study habits as well. _The
strain of two all day trips on the
river is nothing compared to the
effort of maintaining grades.

For six weeks this fall, W&L
junior Mark Lubkowitz led a double
life. When the weekend arrived, he
left the ivory towers of Lexington
to brave the rolling rapids of West
Virginia’s Gauley River.

A part-time raft guide for Class
VI River Runners, Lubkowitz
worked from 5:30 a.m. until dusk
every Saturday and Sunday leading
rafters down a 28-rnile stretch of
river.With its six to eight foot
waves and Class V and VI rapids
(six being the most difficult on a
scale of one to six), the Gauley
River has enticed the junior as a
guide for the past three years.

“West Virginia is the mecca of
the white water world,” says Lub-
kowitz, “and the Gauley is one of
the toughest rivers in the East.” In
fact, many of his fellow guides
were drawn to the Gauley from as
far as California, Australia and Ire-
land.

“It’s intense white water,” the
junior says, “that’s why about
31,000 people rafted on it in the
past six weeks.”

Besides a lust for adventure,
Lubkowitz explains that a river

son, Lubkowitz rerr.-embers t._ving to
study in West Virginia. "I used to
hang a ﬂashlight from the top of
my tent to study,” he explains,
“but every time I moved so did the
light so I gave it up.”

To solve his dilemma, Lub-
kowitz cracked open his books on
Friday afternoons before making the
trip to West Virginia. Although
Monday tests were sometimes a
problem, he believes the experience_
he gained as a guide was worth the
extra effort.

Even during the week, Lub-
kowitz keeps in close contact with
water sports. As part of the outing
club activities, the junior teaches
kayaking classes twice a week
bringing his average time on the
river to 50 hours a week.

Now that Gauley season has
ended, Lubkowitz will focus his at-
tentions on the winter kayaking sea-
son. This weekend he will take stu-
dents to the James River to hone
their kayaking skills.

“I don't know if I'll get many
(kayaking) students on the James in
January,” Lubkowitz laughs, “but
I'll be out there.”

 

I  I I
“Coppeha IS coming
The Rockbridge Concert Theater Series will open
its’ season with the Richmond Ballets perform-
ance of “Coppelia" on Nov. 5 at 2:30 p.m. at
Lexington High School. Tickets, which cost $12

for adults and $5 for students, are available at
Quality Quick Print or at the door. For more
information, call Lee Richarde at 463-9670. Rich-

The Style House

 
 

   

  
  
 

(703) 463-2833

 

  
  

Let us help you celebrate Halloween.

Come in and see our wide array of costumes, makeup, decorations,

       
        

   

           

an;.partvsuw}ies_- I ,_  _ , dr  ,  Welcomes R. L. Hess & Bro. I
Mc{:llIl:‘}:Eu)t/v:)el:IS‘PdfCnib Ill to see our many me 81 t items Int. u mg rass Y Irglma  P  watchmakers’ Jewelers’ silver’ china and crystm
LES HAL are A large selection of Gift Items
QJK W L]; Enjoy Your Stay!

  
  
    

 
 

      
     

Operators: Irma, Ann, Maxine, Mary
122 S. Main St. 463-5954

WM. L. HESS, Jr.
Owner

121 S. MAIN ST.
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

   
 
 
   

III SOUTH MAIN. LEXINGTON II)-II"

 
 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

 

        

   
 

   

Knit A Sweater
For Christmas

 

ROCKBRIDGE
AUTO PARTS, INC.

Super-X Drugs

   

    

   
   
       

   

At Super-X Your Prescription
Needs Are Our Most Important Business.

 

  
 

Evening Beginners Knitting Classes
Regular $35.00 — with ad $30.00

      
 
   
 

  

Route 60 East
Lexington, VA
(703) 463-3161

1903 Sycamore Avenue
Buena Vista, VA
(703)261-6191

I 0,’/I/P; r /'//«I2/)”§‘v 1
; '.
Needlework Specialty Shop

I 1 East Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

      
     
 

    
  
 

   
  

College Shopping Square 463-71 26

Call 463-1006

  

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

   

  

CASH IN  
on GOOD (mam-zs.

If you're a freshman or sophomore with good
grades, apply now for a three-year or two-year
scholarship. From Army ROTC.

Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition, most
books and fees, plus $100 per school month. They
also pay off with leadership experience and officer
credentials impressive to future employers.

  
     
    
 
     
  

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

Contact: Capt. Ramos
463-8485

 
     
   
 

f

,.

I
I

the beginning of the fall . ‘ting sea— «.

 

 
  

4

4

 
 
 

 

l f
J
4

 
  

GHOSTS

from page 9

left. Knox writes that Phil Nunn
was a towering black man who
lived in Lexington around the turn
of the century. Everyone knew of
Nunn’s legendary strength, but also
knew of his gentle kindness and
southern manners. He was the pro-
verbial “gentle giant.” Nunn per-
formed odd jobs around Lexington.
Knox writes that one winter Nunn’s
toes were badly frozen, and his
huge feet could no longer fit into
shoes. He was forced to fashion
shoes out of planks, and Nunn tied
the boards to his ankles with rags.
The banging of his wooden shoes
always told Lexington residents that
Phil Nurtn was approaching. Nunn
was a honest man, and he didn’t
trust the banks. Legend says that
instead Nunn hid his money in the
walls and under the floorboards of
“The Castle.” When the rats ate
the dollars that Nunn shoved into
the walls, Knox says that Nunn took
to carrying around a burlap bag
ﬁlled with his life savings. Nurm is
now dead, but some claim that at
night, when the moon is shining
bright, that they can see the shadow
of Nunn in the upstairs windows.
Others think they have heard the
clop of Nuxm’s shoes as he paces
around the apartment

Another myth? I spoke with
Washington and Lee junior Scott

Bell, who lives in “The Castle"
with Kappa Sigma fraternity brother
Mike DeMelf1. Bell has not heard
any mysterious footsteps around the
apartment, but says that another fra-
temity brother, who lived in “The
Castle,” once heard someone walk-
ing around the apartment.

Franklin Daniels, another Wash-
ington and Lee junior, supports the
story. Daniels was at “The Castle”
one night when the same fraternity
brother said he felt a presence in
the house.

“Just as he said that,” says
Daniels, “I felt something brush up
against me and continue down the
hall. I turned around and couldn't
see anything.”

Daniels added that the occupants
of the apartment were drinking that
night. Alcohol or ghosts? That is up
for you to decide. When Scott Bell,
the current tenant of “The Castle,”
was asked if the Phil Nunn story
bothered him, he laughed and said
“No, I think it is kind of fun to
live in a place with such a reputa-
tion.” Neither Bell nor his room-
mate have found any of the legend-
ary Nunn treasure.

Finally, on Jefferson Street there
stands the Vanderslice-Roberson
house. It is the ancient residence
across the street from Spanky’s.
Knox writes that the house is nick-
named the “House of Four
Ghosts,” and the dwelling dates

back to 1790. Many famous ameri-
cans have visited the Vanderslice-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

     
  
   
  
 

   
  

R.E. Lee Memorial Church
Holy Eucharist

8:30, 10:30, and 5:00
This Sunday, October 29th

Parents Weekend

Reception For All Parents
And Undergraduate Students
Following 10:30 Service of

Holy Eucharist

   
     
  
   
    
   
  
   
   
  

   

   

Please Join Us.’

  
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26, 1989

Roberson he-tIs&" Andrew Jackson,
Jeb Stuart, Thomas “Stonewall”
Jackson, and Robert E. Lee.

Knox states that four ghosts are
allegedly suppose to haunt the old
dwelling. At nightfall, a young girl
can be seen in one of the upstairs
windows of the house. She stands in
the window and simply combs her
hair. The second ghost is never
seen. Instead, on lonely nights one
might hear him knocking four times
on the front door. The third ghost,
according to Knox, is a gray appari-
tion of an elderly lady. She can be
seen either coming down the stairs
or standing in the kitchen doorway.
The fourth ghost is actually two -
these are the spirits of two slaves
who pledged to always protect the
Vanderslice family.

Knox’s list goes on and on: the
ghost of a World War I soldier who
was murdered near the Lime Kiln
bridge; a downtown restaurant that
is visited by a phantom eat; the
house at Mulberry Hill which is oc-
cupied by the spirit of Andrew
Reid; and the Thorn Hill residence
which the specter of Colonel John
Bowyer still happily inhabits. So at
Halloween be a little adventurous,
grab your Ouija board, and set out
in pursuit of Lexington’s finest
phantoms. And if you stumble
across a particularly noteworthy ap-
parition, send it over to the person-
nel office — Remember that Wash-
ington and Lee is still waiting for
its own spook. Happy Halloween.

Lonely? Need a Date?

Meet that special
someone today!
Call DATETIME
(405) 366-6335

A Free Gift Just for Calling Plus Raise
up to $1,700.00 in Only Ten Days!!!
Student groups. fraternities and
sororities needed for marketing project
on campus. For details plus a FREE
GIFT. group officers call
l—X00—950-8472. ext. 0.

vos@toseou¢u¢nott¢«owo>c¢-@=<o>«¢noI=o><¢~ou0»0><o-<o=c¢-na

U/is Beauty Ba’:

I59 S. MAIN ST.
463-2886
LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA

     

I".

‘II
J

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS — PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT

BOARD

from page 1

Raleigh-Durham area to conduct a
feasibility study by February for the
plan.

According to Hotchkiss, the firm
will interview a small but
representative cross-section of the
alumni body to determine
the willingness of alumni to work
on the Long Range Plan and the
amount of financial support they are
willing to offer.

Hotchkiss said that in general
the board found every item of the
Long Range Plan worthwhile, but
the trustees “have to focus on
certain issues that seem to be the
most important... [and] apply a good
deal of realism.” The results of the
feasibility study will allow board
members to prioritize their agenda
of items for approval.

Willard Dumas had
opportunity of meeting the board
for the first time in the role of
Executive Committee president. He

the

gave a report on the state of the
honor system and showed the board
that

the new video on honor

freshmen saw during orientation.

The board asked “a lot of
questions” about the ﬁnancial state
of the Student Activities Board, said
Dumas. “The general consensus
was that they were very pleased that
the EC had the situation under
control and [had created] the new
position of auditor.”

Dumas also attended the board
meetings on the Long Range Plan
concerning undergraduates and
campus life. Among other subjects,
he expressed support for the
proposed student center. He said he
also told the board he was
“somewhat concerned” that the
plan did not sufficiently address the
needs of independent students.

IU President John Vittori agreed
with Dumas, but said, “In order for
them to give us more attention, we

have to show them that we exist.
People don’t know what the
Independent Union does. "

Vittori said that the IU has been
less active in past years, but
because it has received a much
larger budget this year, it will strive
to change that trend with more
meetings and more activities. Low
student participation in IU events
will “definitely turn around,” he
said.

EC

from page 1

swing bands rtm around $17,000,
and “we've gotten one of these
swing bands for $8,200.” He said
The Kings of Swing would be avail-
able for $3,300, but he doesn’t be-
lieve their music is comparable and
“the alumni will know the differ-
ence."

But SAB Treasurer Katie Duwel
said a spokeswoman for Cellar Door
Productions, the booking agency
used by W&L’s Student Activities
Board, said that “tradition is keep-
ing the SAB from moving forward
monetarily." She said The Kings of
Swing have played at White House
functions for both then-President
Ronald Reagan and Vice President
Dan Quayle.

lr1 other FD business, the EC
announced that it is reviewing the
positions of the Fancy Dress chair-
man, vice-chairrnan and auditor. Du-
mas said the EC will, after hearing
from this year’s officers, assign spe-
ciﬁc descriptions to each job. Du-
mas said that he was very pleased
with the Student Activities Board's
presentation.

 
    
    
 
  
  
  

St. Patrick’s T
Catholic Church

We Welcome All Parents
And Families

Regular Weekend
Mass Schedule

Saturday - 5 p.m.
Sunday - 8:00 a.m.
10:30 a.m.

Special Family Mass

Sunday - 9:15 a.m.

  

<0N0"0’-@"0N0'H0>'-0*'0M0N$l

 

 :~..Ai-  —-5; 5‘ 6‘ : 5 ’-*-—-F-~—~~:——6;~--:~ 5"“ in * '3“-"F" ‘“" ‘ “" ‘ “

GOLDEN

,"CORRAL.

 

,,Opcn Mon.-'l‘hurs.. I I a.m. - I0 p.m.
Fri. &Sat. lla.m. - ll p.m.

Buy a Salad Bar
Meal for $3. 99 -
Steak Dinner
Only 99°!

Looking for
a new home?
Ask a menu.

@_) l9f!‘J Century 21 Real Estate Corporation as trustee for the
NAP ® and T‘ trademarks of Century ‘.21 Real Estate Corporation.
Equal Housing Opportunity Q

 

‘EACH OFFICE 15 INDEPENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED

54

CENTURY 21‘ professionals
nationwide help more peo-
plc find the perfect home
than any other real estate
sales organization. When
you're ready to buy a home.
calla member of the team
that leads.

- .t ' .172]
FOG EA STATE
Lexington
463-1801

   

     

 

Put your trust
in Number One.

  

Woolrich

Corbin Suits/Sport Coats
Ruff Hewn For Men

  

Sero/Gitman Shirts
B.D. Baggies - Shirts

To All Parents

hank You For Your Support

In appreciation - we are offering
A PARENT'S WEEKEND SPECIAL
of
ALL SPORT COATS, BLAZERS AND SUITS

20% Off

LADIES’ SUITS
20% Off

The College Town

111 West Nelson Street

Shop

Austin Hill
Ruff Hewn Ladies
Lanz

Pendleton

Jayson Younger

   

    
 
     
 
       

  
   
      
     

     

 
 

   
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 26, 1989

LESSTHAN

  3750
  CHANCES    
      LEFT
TO CHANGE
    THE
WORLD

Circle these dates on your calender:
Thursday, October 26 and Friday, October 27.

Not everyone is cut out to change
the world. After all, it takes educa-
tion, skills and a spare two years.

Also a willingness to work. Hard.

This year 3,750 Americans will join
the Peace Corps to do just that.
They'll do things like build roads, .
plant forests and crops, teach
English, develop small businesses,

train community health workers, ,
or even coach basketball. However,
what they'll be doing isn't half as
important as the fact that they'll be
changing a little piece of the world
'. . .for the better.

And when they return, these
3,750 Americans will find that
experience doing hard work will
have another benefit. It's-exactly
what their next employers are
looking for.

Solgive the Peace Corps your next
two years. And while you're out
changing the world, you'll also be
making a place in it for yourself.

Peace Corps recruiters will be at the University
Center in room 109 from 7 pm until 9 pm to show arfilm
about Peace Corps on Oct. 26.

Sign up for interviews at the Placement Office.
Interviews will be held from 8:45 am until 4:45 pm on

  PEACE conPs@

STILL THE TOUGHESTJOB YOU'LL EVER LOVE.

4<.-,—.p.¢v.—~¢-2-v:<-rw..¢»<*a---r-r’~r'ir>-"’-<-<-“

-_» —;_ 4» -( -< *4’ -r #1. -v“ K -4. I’ /. Y Y *‘ 4- *. f’ If ‘V <'

.4-

1. J V ‘C ‘G V U"

‘I
T
9,
ll
:-
v
v
4
6
v‘
v
I1
w
it
it

I

 

