9

J‘a9d‘~w'doaOO‘t’-no

1‘ HE U'3v'5VERSi"='Y l zmm
A .«:.s   it i :.:a=w.   --
i;.:;wr3ror< v.4. aura:

Who’s themCoach of the Year?  see page 5

A U112 IRIIIQ-111111 IHIII

VOLUME 8, NO. 27’

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

lt’s only Rock ’n Roll

The Truly Dangerous Swamp Band performs before an appreciative
crowd in front of Lee Chapel Sunday afternoon. The concert was

one of several events planned by the Student Activities Board
during Spring Term. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

MAY 17, 1990

Blackmun set
to address law

Wilder to speak

to VMI grads,

won’t discuss coeducation issue

By Joshua Manning
Stat!‘ Reporter .

FD auditor denies charges

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Student Activities Board Treas-
urer Kathleen Duwel told Executive
Committee President Willard Dumas
yesterday that she suspects charge
accoimts were opened by the Fancy
Dress Committee in and around Lexi-
ngton, despite an EC order to the
contrary.

Duwel also said she is holding a

number of unpaid bills for FD expen-

ses, which she believes may not be
in line with the FD committee’s
projections at its last EC budget
hearing.

FD Chairman 'Ale’xander ‘Hitz
reported to the EC on March 26 that
FD would yield a surplus

approximately between $1,000 and
$2,000. _ However, Duwel said that
judging by the outstanding bills she
has received, FD will make “very
little or fall under” the breakeven
point.

One SAB member-at-large sub-
stantiated Duwel’s suspicion that
charge accounts were opened to pay
FD expenses.

He said that Hitz and SAB Chair-
man Charles Conklin “all knew about
charging" and allowed it despite the
EC’s order last fall dissolving charge
powers.

“That’s incorrect,” said FD
Auditor John Hamilton. He and
Conklin agree that the week prior to

"FD some last minute purchases were

charged until the business office
could issue a check that Friday.

CRC proposals

given to

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

The Executive Committee decided
Monday night to turn last week’s
Constitutional Revisions Committee
proposals over to next year’s EC.

A referendum on the proposed
amendments cannot be held until next
year, because the Law School is out
of session. For that reason, according
to EC President Willard Dumas, the
EC believed the whole matter would
best be handled next year.

Dumas, also a senior EC repre-
sentative-elect, added that, should
next year’s committee reject any of
the proposals, he would help the Co-
nstitutional Revisions Committee in
an effort to gain the 50 student signa-
tures required to bring an amendment
to referendum.

The proposed amendments con-
cern rules for closed-door meetings,
succession of Big Three officers-

new EC

elect, special elections for vacated
offices, timing of regular elections
and the role, of the Publications Bo-
ard.

The committee’s proposal for a
revitalized University Lectures Com-
mittee, because it was not suggested
as an amendment, has been for-
warded to the faculty and administra-
tion, said Constitutional Revisions
Committee Chairman John Falk. He
said he anticipates a positive respon-
se.

The EC approved $1,000 for the
ﬁlming of a documentary on the 1992
Mock Convention.

Mock Convention Chairman John
Donaldson told the EC that the film,
which would serve as a historical
record and to recruit guests to future
conventions, would cost between
$2,500 and $3,000. Part of that
money, said Donaldson, would come
from income accumulated through the
Hatton W. Surnners Foundation en-
dowment, which was established in

NEWS...

See page 4.

page 2.

See page 3.

SPORTS...

See page 5.

W&LlFE...
Passion Play “...
murder.” See page 6.

El’ CHECK our WHAT’S IN THE PHI
THIS WEEK

Pravda’s Washington correspondent Vitaly Gan, also the
father of a W&L Soviet exchange student, spoke Monday
about the problems facing his country. See page 4.

W&L will be offering courses in CPR and first-aid beginning
next week. Classes are open to students and area residents.

OPINION... EC Vice-President Jon Sheinberg applauds the 1989-90 SAB
for making this year “a tremendous sucess.” See

Three students criticize the Spectator, and its editors
apologise for the numerous mistakes in last week’s issue.

W&L Golf team gets NCAA totunament bid. See page 5.

The Ring-tum Phi announces its 1989-90 coach of the year.

Chris Swan reviews W&L alum Edward Blain’s new novel
a story of sex, violence, passion and

There were, however, “no such
things as charge accounts,” ‘said
Hamilton.

The SAB member-at-large who
claimed otherwise said that although
there were charges, they were mon-
itored and paid regularly and should
not affect the projected profit ﬁgures.

Charges were necessary, he said,
because cash was not always avail-
able when required, and the business
office only issues checks two days of
each week.

Dumas said that two businesses
have called Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Leroy C. “Buddy" Atkins to
complain about unpaid bills.

According to Dumas, Cellar Door
Concerts claims that the FD commit-
tee owes $800 for booking the Radia-
tors; and a local lumber yard also

 

Wlllard Dumas

...EC President

1981 to beneﬁt Mock Convention.

However, Dean of Students Lewis
John asked Mock Convention to
solicit a contribution from the EC to
aid in the cost, Donaldson said.

The EC did not allocate the
money to Mock Convention, but
asked Donaldson to make note of the
deficit in next year’s budget request.

claims that it has unpaid bills.

.Atkins said that only Cellar Door
contacted him recently, and that any
outstanding debt they claim is proba-
bly due to innocent mistake.

Owner of Lexington Building
Supply and Mill Carole Berger said
she called Atkins some time ago in
an effort to contact a student, but that
the FD committee owes no money.

Berger, as well as Valley Tru-
Value Hardware Owner Gene Hol-
land and an accounting clerk of Wal-
Mart, said that purchases were paid
at the time of purchase by students,
not on charge accounts.

With regard to charging, Dumas
said, “If there was charging done,
contributing in any way to an inac-
curate use of funds, I'm very disap-
pointed.”

U.S. Supreme Court Justice Harry
Blackmun will speak at Washington
and Lee School of Law graduation,
and Virginia Governor L. Douglas
Wilder will give the commencement
address at the Virginia Military
Institute graduation ceremony this
weekend.

Wilder, who has remained silent
in the debate over possible coeduca-
tion at VMI, will speak Saturday
morning at 10, but the VMI Public
Information Office said that he is not
expected to speak on any “controv-
ersial topics.”

Virginia Attomey-General Mary
Sue Terry, on behalf of the state, has
filed suit against the U.S. Justice
Department in an attempt to maintain
VMI’s current male-only admissions
system. Wilder, however, has not
made a public statement about the
issue.

The Justice Department, after a
lengthy investigation, armounced last
year that it considered VMI’s admis-
sion policy to be unconstitutional.

Wilder, a Democrat and the
grandson of a slave, is the first elec-
ted black governor in U.S.

Wilder narrowly won. the gube-
natorial election over J. Marshall
Coleman last November after both
candidates engaged in heated debate
about the abortion issue. Wilder
served as Lieutenant Governor under
Gerald Baliles.

The Washington and Lee School
of Law will hold its 135th commen-
cement exercises this Sunday at 2:30
p.rri. on the Lee House Lawn.

The topic of Blackrnun's com-
mencement address has not yet been

released.

Blackmun graduated summa cum
laude in mathematics from Harvard
University in 1929. He received his
law degree from Harvard in 1932.

After a working in Minnesota,
Blackmun was appointed to the
United States Court of Appeals by
President Dwight Eisenhower in 1959.

President Richard Nixon nomi-
nated him to the Supreme Court in
1970.

Blackmun was confirmed in May
of that year and will celebrate his
20th anniversary on the bench next
month.

In his career on the Court, Black-
mun has written several noteworthy
opinions, including the opinion for
the Court in the 1973 case Roe v.
Wade, which extended the constitu-
tional right of privacy to include
abortion.

The decision, which has been
contested during both the Reagan and
Bush administrations, has been limit-
ed by recent Supreme Court rulings.

One hundred eleven law students
students are expected to be awarded
juris doctor degrees.

According to Susan Palmer, Asso-
ciate Dean of Law, this years gradu-
ates will sit for bar exams in over 30
states.

The graduation is open to the
Washington and Lee community, and
families of the graduates.

In the event of rain, the ceremony
will be held in the Warner Center.

VMI’s commencement Saturday
morning will be held in Cameron
Hall and admission will be restricted
to ticket holders and families of the
cadets.

VMI expects to confer 107
bachelor of science degrees and 126
bachelor of arts degrees.

Survey results concealed

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

Although results of Washington
and Lee's first survey concerning
sexual abuse have been tabulated, that
information won’t be released to the
student body until the fall, according
to Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer-Lamont.

The survey was composed by a
support group for date rape victims
in an effort to field comments and
suggestions from both victims and

non—victirris of sexual abuse or
harassment.
According to Schroer—Larnont,

one-third of W&L’s female students
responded to the" survey, including
one-fifth of the women in the law
school.

Although, according to Schroer-
Lamont, the results are tabulated and
represent a large number of victims
and non-victims, the data will not be
released until next fall, she said.

“It has been decided that new
students coming to campus in the fall
will benefit from the results and a

discussion of the topic among their
peers,” Schroer-Lamont said.

Calling the survey “educational,”
Schroer-Lamont said its results will
show students what options they have
and open up channels to seek help.

She said that it is impossible to
determine whether the problem of
sexual assault is increasing, since this
is the first survey done on the topic,
but she said the survey will be im-
portant in providing a basis of com-
parison for future years.

“We want people to know that
the university is trying to respond in

appropriate and supportive ways,”

said Schroer—Larnont.

According to Schroer-Lamont, a
large number of women expressed
interest through the survey in forming
a Wornen’s Concern Group in the
fall.

The Concern Group will be aimed
at both undergraduate and law stu-
dents, and Schroer—Larnont said she
hopes that anyone interested in orga-
nizing such a group will come to her
now or in the first days of fall.

Schroer-Lamont said that, during
spring break, she and McCloud per-

formed a training program with Cam-
pus Security officers and the Lexing-
ton Police, giving them basic infor-
mation from the survey results, show-
ing them how to assist women stu-
dents and telling them what action to
take if the case of a sexual assault.

If a student does encounter some
form of sexual assault, Schroer-La-
mont said it is crucial that he or she
is aware of the channels to go thr-
ough in order to get help.

Any students who want to file a
complaint of sexual harassment or
assault should see Associate Dean of
Students Anece McCloud and fill out
a complaint form, she said

Complainants may also seek coun-
seling from Schroer-Lamont, the
support group or University Psycholo-
gist Ben Worth, Schroer-Lamont said.

According to Schroer-Lamont,
“When students make a report, re-
gardless of where they start, we guar-
antee a student total control over
what will happen in that case.

“When a person is assaulted they
feel as though they’ve lost control.
Being in charge gives them back their
self-esteem. ’ ’

IFC social pro amendment canned

By Jason Kelley

_ Senior Copy Editor

The Interfratemity Council was
forced to revise a proposed amend-
ment to its by—laws Tuesday night
after the Student Affairs Committee
ruled that the revisions to the social
probation rules the IFC suggested last
week were unacceptable.

The SAC rejected the IFC’s pro-
posal to change the number of frater-
nity members allowed to gather in a
social situation while the fraternity is
on social probation. .

The council had proposed to
change the current limit of 5 mem-
bers to 25 percent of the membership
of the house.

IFC President Goodloe Lewis said
Tuesday night that the SAC had
recommended to him that the coun-
cil adopt an amendment that would
keep the restricted number at five,
but that called for fraternities them-
selves to disciple members who break
social probation rules.

The new amendment would re-
quire individual fraternities to report

the disciplinary actions they have
taken to the IFC, who would then
have the power to enforce more
social probation if they felt the dis-
cipline was not strong enough.

“People are always bitching and
moaning about fraternity autonomy.
This is about as far as you can go,”
Lewis said, encouraging council rep-
resentatives to vote for the measure.

The IFC voted unanimously to
send the proposed amendment to the
SAC for approval. If the SAC ap-
proves the amendment, it will go
back to the IFC for a reaffirrnation
next week.

Representatives from the five Red
Square fraternities and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon met with Lewis and IFC
Vice-President Mike Skarda after the
regular meeting to hold a lottery to
assign areas for those fraternities to
hold rush functions.

Sites for Open Houses, Rush
Dates, and weekend parties during
rush were assigned to the six houses.

Sites for Rush Dates and Open
Houses include the General Head-
quarters game room, Fairfax lounge,
the Alumni House and rooms in the

HOUSE

EN

RUSH LOCATIONS

LOCATION FOR.‘
OPEN HOUSE RUSH DATE

B(-)H Alumni House Alumni House
<I>A(-3 Univ. Ctr. 114 Univ. Ctr. 114
<I>K2 “Munster” “Munster”
HKA Gameroom Univ. Ctr. 109
ZAE Willson-Walker Gameroom

Fairfax Lng.

Fairfax Lng.

‘University Center. ‘

The six houses will hold their
rush parties in the Dell, the New
Pavilion, by Liberty Hall ruins, at
Zollman’s Pavilion, and at various
country houses.

Phi Kappa Sigma representative
Tom Snedeker said in Tuesday.nig-
ht's meeting that he and Sigma Phi
Epsilon President John Flippen will
be starting a Interfraterriity Council
newsletter.

 

 

 OPINION

W&L’s free press
vs. purse power

And now, another weekly installment of “How can we
make the EC operate more like it’s part of a democracy?”
Last week we talked about a proposed constitutional amend-
ment that better defines “executive session” and would
attempt to pull more EC deliberations out in the open where
they belong. This week we’ll talk about another
Constitutional Revisions Committee proposal that concerns
the EC and student publications vis-ti-vis the Publications
Board.

Under current conditions, students pay a student activities
fee, part of which the EC divvies up during its yearly
allocation of funds between five student publications.
Consequently, the EC acts as the publisher of each
publication — a situation that hardly affords the student
press autonomy.

The EC now has the power to cut off funds to student
publications at any point during the year. It can override any
decision made by their editors. And if that doesn’t serve the
EC’s ends, it can fire the editors.

The CRC proposes to amend the constitution to allow the
Pub Board to act more_ like the “umbrella” committee it
was designed as. The CRC says the “ideal” would be for
the EC each year to give a lump sum to the Pub Board
rather than allocate funds to each publication separately. The
Pub Board would then disperse the funds to each publication
itself.

Since the Pub Board would take ever part of the EC’s
responsibility, one EC member would be allowed to sit on
the Pub Board to “keep matters in check and report back to
the E.C,” but not vote. This, the CRC says, would enable
the Pub Board more “manageability and ﬂexibility of the-
funds allocated to the Board Reserve Fund.”

The proposed amendment to the constitution would
certainly be an improvement, but it would not quite be the
“ideal.” Ideally, students would pay a publications fee at
the beginning of the year that would equal the amount that
the EC currently gives to all publications combined. That
money would go into the Board Reserve Fund for the Pub
Board itself to divide between publications.

Such a plan genuinely would separate the Pub Board

from the EC and let the student body rest assured knowing
that their student press is truly free.

But for now, we’ll take what we can get. If the EC
deems the proposed amendment worthy, it will put it on a
referendum in the fall. We hope it makes it there and we
hope you vote in favor of it.

To our readers

As the editors of The‘Ring-tum Phi, we are obligated to
publish every letter or “My View” that we receive.

We reserve the right to edit any submission for reasons
of taste, libel, clarity or length.

It should not be inferred, however, that any letter or “My
View” necessarily carries the endorsement of the Phi’s
editorial board, which consists of the editors, associate
editors and the senior copy editor.

In our opinion, the editorial page of the Phi presents the
W&L community with a unique opportunity to present and
discuss issues of particular importance on campus, be they
local, national or international.

Finally, we ask that each submission include the author’s
name.

The Ring-tum Phi is no more our newspaper than it is
yours. The quality and diversity of its editorial page are
dependant on your submissions.

Quote of the week

Brian, you want to know why nobody reads this thing?
Because it's boring.

— Phi Senior Copy Editor Jason Kelley, trying to explain
to Editor Brian Root why the paper suffers from a lack of
popular approval.

The Ring-tum Phl, May 17, 1990

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 

/”' 17

«.\-“-2

 
  

 

O I O
@112 ﬁling-tum lﬁlit
THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Associate Editors Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Assignment Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cathy Lopiccolo
Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jason Kelley
Entertainment Editor Pamela Kelley
Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jay Plotkin
Associate Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John Laney
Photo Editor Chris Leiphart
Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeff Woodland
Editorial Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joshua Manning

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Dysart

Advertising Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . Chris Mark and John Miller
Circulation Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

 

_ j  '
ost Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

SAB

MY VIEW
By Jon Sheinberg

As the ﬁscal year ends, the Ex-
ecutive Committee is taking time to
look back on the financial perform-
ance of student organizations.

I'd like to take this time to offer
thanks and congratulations to all the
people who made this year a tremen-
dous success despite tightening belts.

In years past, the student body
accumulated a small surplus each
year, allowing the EC to provide
liberal budgets without too much fear
of an unexpected deﬁcit.

Unfortunately, no one anticipated
a deficit like that accumulated by last
year’s Student Activities Board, and
that safety net, which had summed
some $25,000, went entirely into the
1988-89 SAB money pit.

Censorship is carried too far

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

The time had been coming for
years and there was no stopping it.
Even the thick heat of the August
night couldn’t stop them. They sat
quietly in the small bedroom, look-
ing at one another and listening to
the dull whir of the ,electric fan on
the desk. He could feel the beads of
sweat underneath his shirt dripping
down his back as he moved closer.
The scent of her perfume was strong
and fresh. He touched her shoulder
and pulled her to him in preparation
for the inevitable moment. Their lips
met, but suddenly she moved baclc

“Don't you have to write an
article tonight?”

I stood up from the couch and
moved away from her.

“My God, you're right. I almost
violated the humorist oath of celiba-
cy. Find me some pens and a pad of
yellow legal paper before you leave.”

Now that we’ve eliminated all the

Coming into this year's allocation
process, the EC was faced with about
$190,000 in legitimate budget re-
quests and only $160,000 to allocate.
There was no safety buffer. President
Wilson generously gave upward of
$17,000 from his funds, and the EC
set aside a $10,000 reserve and
$5,000 working reserve.

The student organizations which
brought requests had their own fi-
nancial dilemmas with which to deal.
Calyx, for example, faced increased
costs as well as an increased demand
for books.

The groups trimmed their own re-
quests in every conceivable way
before approaching the EC, often
only to have their requests cut more
before allocation.

The EC instituted many measures
which provided for better supervision
of funds, rriost notably with regard to
the new SAB. The SAB budget was

unnecessary distractions (like the ro-
mance reporter who was obviously
hiding in my bedroom), I can finally
get down to some serious writing. I
hope readers are so satisfied by this
article that they thrust it down on the
table and read it again and again and
again until they get worn out and roll
over and fall asleep.

The subject of today’s article is
censorship, which is currently spread-
ing across the country like the Gigan-
tic African Cockroach epidemic and
approaching Washington D.C., where
the First Amendment is kept in the
Important Document Warehouse.

In technical terms, the First
Amendment means I can take up
valuable newspaper space with raun-
chy, pornographic introductions in-
volving myself and an unidentified
female, and no one (not even my edi-
tor) can stop me. Not only that, but
if my editor does not give me the
best spot on he editorial page and
instead buries me on page 3, then the
American Civil Liberties Union will
lawfully egg his house and fill his
shoes with jello.

gives great budget

broken into seven different accounts,
covering Fancy Dress, supplies and
operations, facilities, Springfest, and
one entertainment budget for each
term. Only the treasurer had access
to SAB money, and charge powers
were dissolved.

These changes to centralize power
and require more attention to proce-
dure made it more difﬁcult at times
for the SAB to operate, but ended in
increased efficiency and a strong
handle on how money was spent,
leaving this year's SAB clearly in the
black.

The spirit of enthusiasm and
responsibility which pervaded the
work of the SAB board members,
however, contributed as much as EC
directives to their success. Those
officers took a dying organization full
of problems and showed that students
could make it on their own.

Such. was the ..message.. the. EC

Therefore, the First Amendment is
good. Without it, true artists might be
censored and, even worse, I'd be re-
quired to write legitimate introduc-
tions concerning the abortion issue or
the possible reunification of East,
West, North and South Germany.

To show support for the First
Amendment, I encourage readers to
call their congressman and ask him
where they can find a good Adult
Video and Book Store.

Of course, I'm only joking.

What an interested reader really
should do is purchase a handgun
from the local pawn shop and gun
down a few of the Tipper Gore-types
who boycotted 7-ll stores for selling
Playboy magazines and banana slur-
pees.

Recently, I read that one of these
censorship groups tried to get “Lit-
tle Red Riding Hood” banned from
some public school district because
Little Red brings her grandmother
some wine (since she also brought
her a fish sandwich, I assume that it
was a white wine) in the basket.

Personally, I never found the

Flag burning: protected

MY VIEW
By Richard Hill

The burning or malicious desecra-
tion of the American Flag is one of
the most morally reprehensible things
that an individual could do. Memo-

‘ries of radicals around the world

destroying the ﬂag in fiery effigy
makes any true-blooded American
clench with rage. Yet, such an act,
however maddening it may be, is the
form of protest that some individuals
choose to take. As such, it must be
protected under the First Amendment

' of the Bill of Rights.

This has always been a difficult
and sensitive issue for conservatives
and liberals alike. As a conservative,
my deeply seated and fervent love for
my country oftentirries forces me into
an emotional response to such an
issue. When the decision in Texas v.
Johnson was released last year, I was
swept along with the emotion, joining
millions of other Americans in decry-
ing the court and calling for a consti-
tutional amendment. But as I look at
the issue a year later, and after much
thought I have come to realize that
those things which we hold so dear
as Americans and in the love for our
country, force us to except such

protest.

This is not an easy thing to do.
Almost everyone has fought or has
relatives who have fought to protect
and preserve the country and the
ideals for which the ﬂag stands.
Many of these people have died.
When a ﬂag passes by in a parade or
when the national anthem is played,
we feel an emotional rush that makes
one proud to be an American.

We, however, often forget or fail
to recognize what it means to be an
American. This country was built on
a longstanding tradition of debate,
discussion and free thought. To be
an American is to afford every indi-
vidual the right to express there opin-
ion, no matter what that opinion
might be.

There seerris to exist a contradic-
tion, when inside the halls of con-
gress legislators freely exchange ideas
- oftentimes condemning the hell out
of rriorn and apple pie - while outside
a few protestors are arrested for
burning an American ﬂag. Last year
the Supreme Court recognized such a
burning as protected under the first
amendrnent’s freedom of speech. On
Monday, May 14 they once again
heard arguments on the issue. This
time, however, its focus was on a
federal law, passed after last years
decision. This law may seem differ-

ent, because it seeks to protect the
integrity of the symbol, but it’s intent
is the same as that of the Texas law
- to prevent the desecration of the
American ﬂag for the purpose of
expression.

In last year’s decision, the Wash-
ington Post noted, Justice Anthony
Kermedy — in his concurring opin-
ion —— said that “...sometimes we
must make decisions that we do not
like. g

 

I have come to
realize that those
things we hold so
dear as Americans...
force us to accept

this protest.

It is poignant but fimdamental that
the ﬂag protect those who hold it in
contempt.” The Post also said that
Justice Harry Blackmun may be in-
clined to go along with the idea of
protecting the integrity of the ﬂag. If
this happens than the law is likely to
stand.

The question is, can patriots say
that they have truly gained a victory.
A statement that banning ﬂag dese-

 
  
      
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
    
  
    
 
 

heard again and again in this year’
final budget hearings. Organizatio
one after the other came forward t
boast of their financial success, de
spite the cutbacks and oppressiv
ﬁscal atmosphere which faced us .
the beginning of the year.

As proud and confident studen ‘
we oppose faculty intervention in ou
financial affairs, but after last year’
deficit many were left with damag
ego. However, the officers and bus
ness managers of student_ orgariiza
tions across the board rose to th
occasion. With a year of activities '
quantity and quality short of no -4 »
past, we, the students, proved onc .
again that we can manage this f -.
cial enterprise. Jonathan Sheinberg '
Vice President of the 1989-90 Exec
live Committee.

Rick 1. Peltz, the Phi's EC repor .A
er, assisted in writing this “M
View."

\

  
    
   
 
 
  

“Little Red Riding Hood" story th ‘
compelling. I generally prefer so a
thing with a little more violence 2
a better plot such as the Bugs B
episode when Bugs grows ﬂowe
and other vegetation on the bald hea
of Elmer Fudd.

Maybe it's about time “Little R
Riding Hood” was updated for mod
em times. Little Red, who is now .
attractive heavy metal chick, brings
basketful of crack cocaine so Gran
ma doesn’t have to keep selling -
body to support her drug habit. Th
wolf could be Grandrna’s pimp an
he might lure Little Red, who thre '
away her drab, red cloak and wear
very hip threads, into prostitutio
with back stage passes to a Guns ’
Roses concert.

At this point, I’m wondering ho
I got on the subject of “Little -o’
Riding Hood" and away from -
can Cockroaches, which was
intended subject of this article. I’
like to keep writing, but I just r
membered that my favorite adul
bookstore closes in 20 minutes, and
need to get over there.

speech

cration is not unconstitutional goe
against my ideology. Being a conse
vative is not only about being 2’
patriot, it is about believing in free
dom and believing in this nati
The same principle that forces me to
uphold the Nazi’s right to march in ,
highly jewish area (such as happen
in Skokie, Illinois) is the same princi
ple that forces me to afford protesto —
the right to burn an American ﬂag.

As individuals we need not forbi
such an exercise. When you '
about it, what are we accomplishing
Are we bringing about more patriot
ism? respect for the ﬂag? love of th
country? No. Patriotism is somethina
that comes from the heart, and I car
think of no better way to show min
than by singing the national anth v
around someone who is burning ,
ﬂag, or holding my own ﬂag hi ;
while theirs burns on the gro -1
We don't forbid someone frorri b
ing a copy of the U.S. constitution 0
the Declaration of Independence, bo 6
of which are more dear than the ﬂa
Those documents are printed on pa
per, a flag is cloth. If someone goe
into a store to buy a ﬂag and th
decides to burn it, isn’t it after al
their property? We don't prev
people from burning their books, 0
bibles, etc.

CI Please see FLAG page

 
   
   
   
     
  
  
  
    
   
    
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
     
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
      
    
      
  
    
   
  
     
  
   
    
  

     
   
    
   
    
  
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
 

     

‘I

OPl_NlON

The Spectator
is ‘junk food’

Realizing that many people have many things to say about
the Spectator, my comments will be brief and conﬁned to what
I consider to be that publication’s main vice.

On March 14, at the ODK/MSA panel discussion on
cultural diversity, Dean Kenneth Ruscio asked Spectator Editor
Paul Lagarde if he thought the magazine fostered civility on
the Washington and Lee campus.

Although Lagarde responded affirmatively, I think the
Alumni Weekend edition speaks for itself (nice cover, guys).

I have no problem with stimulating and controversial food
for thought. Indeed, I applaud Prof. Cecil for his excellent
essay on German reuniﬁcation which appears on the maga-
zine’s ﬁnal pages.

I can only hope that future contributors to the Spectator
will note Prof. Cecil’s tact and good taste.

Food for thought — here, here! Intellectual junk food —
no, thank you.

Sincerely,
Shawn Copeland, '90

Magazine article
called a ‘fiasco’

The latest issue of the Washington and Lee Spectator con-
tained several errors that demand immediate correction. A story
by J. Cameron Humphries and Scott McCoy correctly reported
that Washington and Lee recently hired a new professor in the
journalism department. But the sirriilarity between the truth and
what the Spectator reported ends there.

The central error of this fiasco is the Spectator’s asser-
tion that W&L offered the job to a female finalist. Wrong. As
a member of the selection committee, I know first-hand that
we offered a job to only one person — the man we hired. But
that error is only one of the inaccuracies that abound in this
story. Among them:

- the article says we interviewed “twenty to thirty”
candidates after receiving “hundreds” of applications. Wrong.
We interviewed 12 candidates after receiving about 80 appli-
cations.

- the article says we selected six ﬁnalists and brought them
to Lexington in the fall. Wrong. We selected four ﬁnalists and
brought them to Lexington in March.

- the article says a faculty committee and a separate student
committee “submitted an ordered list of their preferences.”
Wrong. There was only one committee, composed of faculty
and students, and that committee never submitted rankings to
anyone.

- the article says all the males on this non-existent student
committee agreed with many of the women on the same
non-existent committee that one male candidate was the best
of the finalists. Well, sort of. I was the only male student on
the selection committee, and I did indeed support the hiring of
the man we eventually did hire. And so did most of the fe-
males on the committee. And so did all of the faculty mem-
bers of the committee. That's why we hired him.

- the article says we offered the job to a woman over a
more-qualiﬁed man. As mentioned earlier, this is complete
fiction. It is true that one of the four finalists, a woman, did
withdraw her application during a visit to Lexington. But at
the time of her visit we had not yet decided on a first choice;
in fact, all four finalists were being considered equally. The
female candidate in question could not have refused an offer,
because we hadri’t made an offer. It was not until after she
withdrew her application that we offered the job to anyone.

Because of this last, most massive error, the entire story
quickly falls apart. The Spectator says we offered “the second
most qualiﬁed person the job” because of “pressure from
Washington Hall to hire more women.” Wrong. The only
pressure we felt to hire a woman (or a black) came from the
group that accredits journalism schools and from our own
recognition of the possible benefits a more diverse faculty
might provide to future students. No one from Washington
Hall ever met with our committee, and we never heard a
single suggestion from the administration that we consider an
applicant's race or gender. We set our own criteria. And, when
we did make our decision, both President John Wilson and
Dean John Elrod endorsed our choice.

The Rlng-tum, Phl, May 17, 1990

LETTERS

The story also contained several other errors worth noting.
For example, the article refers to something called a “Journal-
ism School.” W&L has no such school. There is a journalism
department, which is part of the College of Arts and Sciences.
The article also says W&L has “the oldest undergraduate
journalism department in the “nation.” Wrong. The idea of
journalism education began here, during General Lee’s
presidency, but there was no journalism department until
decades later, well after actual journalism departments had
been established elsewhere. The Spectator also made up the
name of the group that accredits journalism programs. There
is no “Association of Accredited Journalism Schools.” W&L’s
journalism department is accredited by the Accrediting Council
for Education in Journalism and Mass Communications.

{-

Perhaps the Spectator should stick
to ‘insults and tirades and leave the
reporting to someone else.

That this work of fiction could make it into print is
disappointing enough, but what I find even more amazing is
that, even apart from these many errors, the article itself is
self-destructive. Its central claim — namely, that “recent events
demonstrate that affirmative action is currently underrriiriing the
quality of the incoming faculty” — falls to pieces when the
article itself admits that, in the only example cited, the best
candidate was indeed hired. If gender and race considerations
have hurt W&L’s faculty, as this article asserts, where is one
single instance of this sort of darriage?

In short, while the overall appearance of the Spectator has
improved greatly since the magazine's inception, its reporting
in this particular case has reached a new low. Perhaps the
Spectator should stick to insults and tirades and leave the
reporting to someone else. Or perhaps there is another
alternative, one Humphries himself borrowed from Ernest Hern-
ingway in this same issue of the Spectator. “If you don’t
know the truth -- if you can’t write the truth -- don't write.”

Sincerely,
James Lake, ’9O

Spectator story
‘missed the boat’

An open letter to J. Cameron Humphries and Scott McCoy:

I was appalled by the fallacies and misconceptions in the
article “Pride and Prejudice: Affirmative Action at Washington
and Lee,” that appeared in the last edition of the Spectator.
You missed the boat entirely in describing the selection of the
journalism departrnent’s new professor. Your woefully inac-
curate reporting not only gave a false impression of an
important occurrence in the department, but also made a
mockery of your publication’s masthead, which describes the
Spectator as “The W&L Student Journal of Fact and Opin-
ion.”

As the Spectator’s deadline is
not that of a daily, weekly or
monthly publication, -I suggest in
the future you spend more time
collecting the facts and getting
them from the right source.

If you had interviewed an active member of the search
committee instead of a professor who was not actively in-
volved in the selection process, you would have discovered
that the committee selected, as you put it, “the best and

brightest” candidate for the job. The group never offered the-

position to a female candidate but to the one who did meet
your definition of the “best and brightest.”

Clearly, our choice did not depend on the candidate’s
gender or race. While those factors were discussed, the group
believed the top candidate was not only a white male but a
W&L graduate — two strikes against the journalism department
as far as future accreditation is concerned.

If you had gotten the facts straight, you would have
realized that the search committee, of which I was a member,
concerned itself with qualities that would beneﬁt the jour-
nalism department and, most importantly, the student body.

“All the males in this student committee,” which hap-
pened to be one, all ﬁve women as well as the faculty
members agreed that the best interests of the department would
be served with a quality candidate, not one who happens to
wear a dress.

As the Spectator’s deadline is not that of a daily, weekly
or monthly publication, I suggest in the future you spend more
time collecting the facts and getting them from the right
source.

Getting information from a professor who was not a full
member of the search committee is as unprofessional as asking
the mayor of Lexington to explain what the judge decided in
Lexington City Court. Both operate out of City Hall, but that
doesn’t mean they are qualiﬁed to speak for each other.

Good luck with future articles. I have a feeling you're
going to need it.

Sincerely,
Wendy Wolford, ’9O

Spectator staff
regrets errors

It has recently come to the attention of the Washington
and Lee Spectator that the faculty hiring article in the May
1990 issue contains certain inaccuracies. The accreditation
cornrriittee referred to as the “Association of Accredited
Journalism Schools,” actually is the “American Council on
Education in Journalism." The department referred to as the
“Journalism School” is actually the “Department of Jour-
nalism and Communications,” and that the Department of
Journalism and Communications brought four, not six, finalists
which were selected from sixty to eighty candidates instead of,
as we reported, “hundreds.” Of a more important note,
Professor Jennings and Professor MacDonald deny that the
Department of Journalism and Communications rriade more
than one offer for the position, and state that the one job offer
was made to the male candidate who accepted.

We regret the errors; however, it still perplexes us that
Professor Mollenhoff originally indicated to two Spectator
reporters that a less qualiﬁed woman candidate was offered
the position first.

Sincerely,
Marc Short, '92
Paul Lagarde, ’9l

GHQ employees
correct Phi story:
We know Heimlichi

We, some of the employees of the General Headquarters,
feel the need to respond to Brian Root’s article in last
Thursday's Phi. It is obvious that Brian did not research
enough before writing the article. In it, he quotes Courtney
Payne (not directly) as saying that Jeff [Rogers] is the only
GHQ employee who knows the Heirnlich maneuver, but this
is simply not true.

In fact, there is not one employee who does not know how
to save a choking guest, including both managers.

We all feel that Jeff reacted quickly and well to the
situation, but we also feel the need to set the record straight.
We do not want the GHQ to have such a blot on its record.

In addition, we feel Brian's interview with Mr. Darrell,
without an interview of either Ms. Martin or Mr. Torrence,
was irresponsible journalism.

Mr. Darrell, although the head of the food service, was not
in the Pit at the time of the incident, while both Ms. Martin
and Mr. Torrence were. An interview of either of the two
GHQ managers would have reﬂected the truth of the situation.

Again, we do not wish to denigrate in any way Jeff’s quick
reaction, we merely wish to clear our name.

Sincerely,
Several employees of the GHQ

By Karsten Amlie

TALKBACK

What do you think of the
SAB’s performance this year?

Mary Hampson, ’91, Charleston,
SC — “I think they did a good
job overcoming a lot of internal
difficulties. I respect their ef-
forts.”

Frank Turner, ’91, Covington,
GA - “Not enough babes and KY
certainly not enough bingo.”

Jeff Livingston, ’92, Paducah,
- “Aren’t they broke?" Ms

Brannon Aden, ’92, Jackson,
- “Well, I think they did a
good job with Fancy Dress, but
as for the other events, I didn't

Photos by Erik Bertelsen

Bo Hannah, '93, Atlanta, GA
- “I think it's been good, but I
think they should have gotten
Drivin’ and Cryin’."

go to any of them.”

FLAG

from page 2

As Americans, we have every
right to make a statement saying that
we find ﬂag burning to be reprehen-
sible, distasteful and disgraceful. The
Congress can pass a resolution to that
effect, but do we really want to ques-
tion the validity of our bill of rights
by passing a restriction? Are we
prepared to take the next step and
forbid any conduct which may be
offensive to the integrity of our
coimtry?...buming a copy of the pres-
idential seal, smashing a model of the
Statue of Liberty, hindering the work
of the president by shouting too
loudly outside of the White House...
Where does it end? Do our sensibili-
ties to the flag extend to other "sym—
bols?"

The reason that the protestors
desecrate the flag in particular is that
they know it is so dear. Aren’t we
hindering that belief when we legis-
late its acceptance? The people who
burn a flag are the same ones who
would do so whether it were illegal
or not. Is it worth risking our funda-
mental principles, because of a
handfull of disenchanted radicals?
By making ﬂag desecration illegal,
we are putting too much value on the
act, and these people have in effect
won a victory. They have shown
that they can get under our skin by
their protests. If, on the other hand,
we ignore it or we counter it with a
patriotic protest of our own, holding
our heads high knowing we are mor-
ally on higher ground and recognizing
that what we love so much and what
they hate gives them the right to do
what they do, we have won.

To be against flag
desecreation is to be
patriotic. To be in fa-
vor of making it ille-
gal is un-American.
This is one American
who would vote
against such an
amendment.

William Kuristler is the advocate
for the ﬂag—bumers as he was in the
case of Texas v. Gregory Lee John-
son. For the first time in my life -
and probably the first time ever - I
am inclined to say that I hope he
wins a case and succeeds in having
the law ‘struck down. But the battle
doesn’t end there, it can only get
worse. If the law is struck down, the
only way for Congress to make ﬂag
desecration illegal is by passing a
constitutional amendment. If Congress
succeeds it will have to go to the
states. The individuals in the states
then must decide if this issue war-
rants changing the Constitution. We
must decide if we really want our
Constitution to reﬂect the outcry gen-
erated by a few protesters. That
being the case, we open up the door
for radicals of all shapes to make
statements in any number of ways.
To make such a big deal out of it,
areri’t we giving them the publicity
they want?

To be against flag desecration is
to be patriotic. To be in favor of
making it illegal is un-American.
This is one American who would
vote against such an amendment.

Tara Maitra, ’93, Branchburg,
NJ — “What did they do exactly
this year?”

 

gq. N EWS

By Cathy Loplccolo
Assignment Editor

Expressing his support for reform
and change in the Soviet Union,
Vitaly Gan, father of Washington and
Lee exchange student Max Gan,

‘ spoke Monday night in Northen Aud-
itorium.

Gan, the Washington correspon-
dent for the Communist Party news-

; paper Pravda, expressed both his
 concern and hope for Soviet Pres-
‘ ident Mikhail Gorbechev’s pere-
 stroika, economic reform, and glas-
/ riost, openness.
" Perestroika is not working well
' now in the Soviet Union, according
to Gan, who said his nation is "sick"
*' with internal problems. Gan said
 increases in wages which exceed the
availability of consumer goods are
causing frustration with the system
’ and an unwillingness to work.

“It didr1’t matter in the old days

whether you actually worked or not.

' You were still entitled to your salary
or wage. Even nowadays, they are
not exactly enthusiastic, because you
cannot spend money there,” Gan
said.

Soviet citizens are beginning to
vocalize their unhappiness in demon-

. strations like the one during the tra-
ditional May Day celebration this
year, when protestors demanded that
Gorbechev resign. Gan said that to
satisfy the public, the Soviet govem-

,; ment needs to improve the standard

;of living, a task which is both dif-

.; ﬁcult and impossible to guarantee.

, Gan said old guard "hard-liners"

'; who are opposed to Gorbechev’s

i; reform efforts are using the citizens’

junrest to undermine perestroika and
figlasnost.

4. “In other words, economic crisis

jfeeds forces from the right and the

Aileft, weakening perestroika," Gan

'2 said. “Supporters of Gorbechev un-
Ederstand that the fate of perestroika

first of all depends on the state of
the economy, and that is why it is so
important to get things moving."

Revolution in the Baltic states of
Lithuania and Latvia are increasing
the stress on the Soviet nation, ac-
cording to Gan. Although Gan said
he completely supports the states’ in-
dependence movements and seces-
sion, he said their course of action is
endangering Gorbechev’s entire sys-
tem of reforms.

“Their movement there under-
mines efforts to implement our re-
forms, distracts the attention from the
efforts of our government. In that
sense I do not support them, and
neither do most of our people, " Gan
said.

According to Gan, the Baltic
states should abide by the constitu-
tional procedure for secession, which
would allow for a five year transi-
tion period.

“You cannot write off the 50
years of economic, political and cul-
tural relations overnight. It's just like
when a husband and wife decide they
cannot stand each other any longer.
The ﬁnal word still belongs to the
court of law, because there are pro-
perty questions. You have to decide
the question of who’s going to look
after the kids,” Gan said.

Despite these problems, Gan ex-
pressed optimism for the future of the
Soviet Union and U.S.-Soviet rela-
tions. Gan said Bush should norrnal-
ize trade relations between the two
countries and continue to work with
Gorbechev, especially during the
summit in Washington scheduled to
take place at the end of this month.

“I think the world will be even
more peaceful than even now. That's
why attempts to undercut or under-
mine Gorbechev’s position is so
detrimental, ” Gan said. “If Gor-
bechev fails, everybody will lose,
your country included.”

The end of Communist Party
monopoly and the shift of power

The Ring-tum Phi, May 17. 1990

Correspondent speaks
about Soviet reforms

from the Party to the president are
historical signs of change, Gan said.
In addition, Gan said the July Com-
munist Party Congress, where the
Communist party is to split into sev-
eral factions, will be a landmark in
Soviet political reform.

“The Party, in the old sense, will
never be the same. So everybody is
waiting impatiently for the Congress.
The same thing is true of the Soviet
Union itself. The face of the Soviet
Union will change," Gan said.

Since glasnost, Gan said he feels
more free to express his own views,
although Pravda still advocates Party
ideology. Gan said he feels respon-
sible as a journalist for bringing the
Soviet and American publics closer
together.

“When you know and understand
each other, what I call the coef-
ficient of human sympathy and com-
passion is increasing,” Gan said.

Gan said he is envious of his
colleagues in Moscow who are cover-
ing the revolution, because the Soviet
people have turned inward and are
uninterested in international politics.
However, he said the Soviets are
eager to learn everything about Amer-
ican lifestyles.

“I wish I could do more human
interest stories on life in your coun-
try,” Gan said, recalling a story he
did three years ago about the home-
less in Washington, D.C. “It was
published then, but I doubt it would
be published now. Soviet readers are
tired of negative news about you.
They don't believe me."

Gan said he has gotten used to
the American way of life and that he
loves the city of Washington. How-
ever, he said he still feels dis-
criminated against and his treatment
by Americans depends on relations
between the two superpowers.

“When people you meet daily
stop recognizing your face, when they
stop saying hi to you, well, I feel

lousy,” Gan said. “But that's life.”

GENERAL NOTES

Scholarship

Orville Redenbacher’s Second
Start Program is a scholarship
program designed to assist stu-
dents over the age of 30 who are
returning to college or beginning
post—secondary education for the
first time. Anyone interested
should contact Kelly Gibson at:
The Orville Redenbacher’s Second
Start Scholarship Program, 211 E.
Ontario, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL
60611. ~

Bike rides

The Outing Club will have
weekly bicycle road rides, Wed-
nesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.
Meet in front of Baker Dorm.
Look for other plarmed ride an-
notmcements on the OUting Club
bulletin board. For those needing
bicycle repair or service, tools
and equipment will be available
in the Outing Club equipment
room (Baker 109) on Tuesdays,
7-8 p.m. and Saturdays, 2-3 p.m.
For additional Outing Club bicycl-
ing information, call Jason at 464-
4665 or Paul at 464-4416.

Car wash

The Delta Gamma Interest
Group is sponsoring a Car Wash
for the Lexington SPCA this
Saturday, May 19, from 10 a.m.
to 4 p.m. in the Harris Teeter
parking lot next to the Texaco
station. The cost is $3 per car
and $5 per truck or van.

Get noticed

Any new organization on
campus that wishes to be included
in next year's Student Handbook
should submit a brief summary of
its activities and next year's offi-
cers to the Student Handbook box
in Payne Hall, next to the Dean
of Students's office.

Art Farm

There will be a four-month
celebration for the fifteenth anni-
versary of the Art Farm Gallery.
The opening recqition for the
show, "Art Farm 15 Years," will
be on Sunday,,May 20, from 2-
5 p.m. at the gallery which is on
the corner of Route 39 and 750,
less than a mile off U.S. 11,
north of Lexington. Tea and Re-
freshments will be served.

Old footprints

The Virginia Museum of Nat-
ural History is conducting tours
into the Culpepper Stone Quarry
to see dinosaur footprints that are
over 200 million years old. The
tours are on Saturday and Sunday
afternoon, May 19 and 20, and
June 2 and 3. For reservations,
call (703) 666-8600. Tickets are
$5 in advance and $6 at the quar-

ry.
Fishing

The Outing Club will sponsor
fly-casting instruction with Prof.
John McDa.niel during the spring
term every Thursday at 4 p.m.
Meet at Liberty Hall ruins. Equip-
ment will be provided.

Hiking

The last House Mountain
climb ofethe year will be on j
Sunday, May 20 (Little House
Mountain this time, so the last
part of the hike will be off-trail).
The view from the top is splen-
did. Wear sturdy shoes; bring
along rain protection, water, and
a snack. Meet at 12:30 outside
Baker 109. Transportation will be
provided.

Canoeing

The paddling section of the
Outing Club will hold basic
canoeing sessions on the Maury .
River this term. Sign up in ad-
vance outside Baker l09. Contact
Mark at 463-7590 or Ernest at
464-4630 for details.

Environment ,

The environmental section of
the Outing Club will have its next
meeting on Monday, May 21 at 5
p.m. in room 113 of the Universi-
ty Center.

PiKA run

i

i

. i

Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity is 
h°1d1I18 fl Charity run to benefit
the ‘Lexington SPCA Shelter’s

Capital Fund. The race will be (

Saturday, May 19. PiKA brothers ‘

are now accepting donations for 

the run. Donations and questions 1

should be directed to Doug Denby f.

at 463-7590. 

av .\ ‘lﬁexréa _

 

Defying gravity
A member of Sigma Nu creates some serious hang time Monday afternoon as he spikes the ball on
some of his brothers. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

Rhodes Scholars
displayed in library

From the W&L News Office

. An exhibit of Washington and
Lee's Rhodes Scholars is now on
permanent display in the periodicals
room of the University Library.

Each year, 32 students from
throughout the nation are awarded the
prestigious scholarships for two to
three years’ study at Oxford Univer-
sity in England. The candidates are
judged on intellectual achievement,
character, leadership, and physical
vigor. Since 1904, when the first
Rhodes Scholarships were awarded to
Americans, 14 W&L students have
been chosen.

W&L’s first Rhodes Scholar was
Joel Jackson Davenport Rodgers. He
attended W&L from 1905 until 1908,
the year he was awarded the scholar-
ship. He is the only one whose
photograph has not been located. The
others are:

Francis Pickens Miller '14; Fit-
zergerald Flournoy ’2l, ’22; Samuel
Adams McCain '27; Clarence Pend-
leton Lee Jr. '32; Edgar Finley Shan-
non Jr. '39; Robert Owen Paxton ’54;

Also, John Blyth McLin '60;
Timothy Arthur Vanderver '65; Mar-
vin Charles Henberg '70, Ralph Har-
rison Smith '73; Mark Andrew Brad-
ley ’78; Edward Arthur Johnson '81;
and John Christopher Vlahoplus '83.

Two CPR

By Tracey Thomblade
Staff Reporter

Anyone who wants to become
certiﬁed to perform CPR or adminis-
ter other forms of first-aid should
register now for either the Communi-
ty CPR or Standard First Aid course
to be held next week in the Warner
Center.

The Community CPR program,
under the direction of Cinda Rankin,
will be held May 23-25 from 7 to 10
p.rn. in the 500—level classroom of
the Warner Center. The fee for the
course is $10.50 and covers the cost
of a textbook and certification materi-

als. All participants must pre-
register in the gym office.

The course will cover adult, child
and infant CPR techniques, as well as
how to handle conscious and uncon-
scious choking victims. Certification
is valid for one year.

The program, which has been
taught twice already this year, will
include student instructors this term.

The Standard First Aid course, ,

under the direction of Tom Jones,
will be held from May 28-30 from 7
to 10 p.rri. in the 500-level classroom
of Warner Center. The course will
cover standard Red Cross first-aid
techniques, which includes adult CPR.
In addition, the course will cover

courses offered

treatment for bleeding, fractures, '

poisoning, diabetic emergencies and

seizures. '
Purchase of the Standard First Aid

book, available at the local Red Cross 1

office on East Washington Street, is
required for the course. A practical‘

and written examination will be given

at the end of the course. Certifica-
tion is valid for three years.

A master sign-up sheet is located‘ I

in the main office of the gyrrmasium.
Enrollrrient is limited so interested.
persons are encouraged to call the
office at 463-8672 or stop by to sign
up.

Both courses are open to students
and the Lexington community.

Prof. to attend conference

From the W&L News Office

William F. Connelly Jr., an assis-
tant professor of politics at Washing-
ton and Lee, has been selected to
attend C-SPAN’s Spring 1990 Semi-
nar for Professors in Washington
D.C. on June 4-5.

C-SPAN, a non-profit public af-
fairs cable network, is conducting the

Photographs of 13 of the 14 W&L alumni awarded Rhodes Scholarships.

are now on permanent display in the University Library. The only

WIN A HAWAIIAN

VACA"1"l(JN OR BIG

SCREEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1,400

IN JUST

Objective: Fundraiser
Commitment: Minimal
Money: Raise $1,400
Cost: Zero Investment

10 DAYS!

Campus organizations, clubs, frats, sororities call
OCMC at 1-800-932-0528 / 1-800-950-8472 ext.l0

 

Lexington Presbyterian

Church

Sunday Morning Worship
11:00 a.m.

Faculty & Students Welcome.’

seminar “C-SPAN in the Class-
room,” which will focus on issues
relating to the educational uses of the
network's public affairs programs.
Connelly is one of 33 college and
university professors to attend the
seminar.

The participant's ﬁeld of study
will include political science, jour-
nalism, communication and law.

The agenda will include profes-

sional roundtable discussions and
workshops, participation in a live,
nationall-televised network call-in
program, and a reception at the Na-
tional Press Club.

Connelly joined the W&L faculty
in 1986. He received his Bachelor of
Arts degree from Assumption Col-
lege, his Master’s Degree from Bos- v
ton College and his doctorate from
the University of Virginia.

photograph missing is the one of the first winner in 1908. W&L photo

by W. Patrick Hinely.

Open noon until 9 p.ni.
S. Randolph SL. Loidngton

 

Special Orders No Extra Charge

Monday through Saturday
464-4050

11
.....................Q

 

P

   
 

t
I

.$PORT§

‘ .

._Q._

.—..  I‘...z}wﬁo' an: m. A

Stagnitta spar

First year head coach Jim Stagnitta (foreground) analyzes action in the
season opener at the University of Virginia. Stagnitta guided W&L to a
9-4 record after two straight losing seasons. Staff photo by Chris
Leiphart.

Track falls micro-seconds
short of NCAA standards

.- -a: &1‘.~<>-

   

’{-3 .9 ffflé

3

I ‘ Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads

 By John Neumann
« Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men's
and wornen’s track teams sent their
finest performers to last weekend's

. University of Virginia Invitational in

hopes of qualifying them for the
Division HI National Championship
meet.

Men's head coach Norris Aldridge
is hoping to send as many as four
athletes and a relay squad to North
Central College in Napierville, Ill.

Junior Carl Gilbert qualiﬁed for na-

T tionals in the triple jump last month.

Senior Scott Williams tied his
school record of 48.8 seconds in the
4m meters, but came up just short in
his bid to qualify for nationals. He
will need to shave six-tenths of a
second off his time to qualify.

Senior Wes Boyd was even closer
to qualifying as he is only one-tenth
of a second shy from the qualifying
time in the 100 meters. Boyd will
have to run his fastest time this year
to earn a slot at nationals.

Although both Williams and Boyd
are very close to the nationals, they
are not as close as the 4x100 relay
team of senior Tie Sosnowski, Gil-
bert, Williams, and Boyd. The group
is just orie-one hundredth away from
nationals. Aldridge felt that they

might have qualiﬁed last weekend in
Charlottesville, but a troubled hand-
off prevented that.

The ﬁnal chance for the men will
be this Saturday when Aldridge will
bring the hopefuls down to Raleigh,
N.C., to compete in the North Caro-
lina State Invitational. Although
scheduled to compete at the Liberty
Invitational, that contest may be
canceled forcing the team to go to
N.C. State. Aldridge likes the chan-
ces of his men assuming the weather
conditions are good.

Three women also competed for
W&L in Charlottesville, Their perfor-
mance pleased Head Coach Jolm
Tucker.

Junior Sandi Dudley placed third
in the javeliri throw against some
strong Division I competition. She
threw 112 feet, beating ﬁve other
strong . competitors.

Senior Beth Stutzrnarm also fared
well but did not qualify for nationals
either. She ﬁnished 13th in the 100
meter rim with a time of 13.66 sec-
onds.

Senior Sonya Crayton tied her
personal best in the 400 meter rim
with a 64.4 second time.

Although Tucker failed to qualify
anyone for nationals, he is looking
toward next year for Dudley and
others to represent W&L at the na-
tional meet.

Next week in SPORTS:

— The F?ing—tum Phi picks its
ATHLETE-OF-THE-YEAR

— NCAA results from golf and tennis

 

The Rlng-tum Phl, May 17, 1990

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

Jim Stagnitta is hoping to enjoy a
little peace and quiet.

“This is the first chance I've had
to sit back, settle in and relax," said
Stagnitta, who just ﬁnished his first
season as head coach for the Wash-
ington and Lee men's lacrosse team.
“It’s been a hectic year. The timing
was tough.”

Stagnitta took the reins of the
team on December 1 and within ﬁve
months engineered the most success-
ful tumaround for the lacrosse team
in 20 years.

W&L had won just six garries in
the two seasons before Stagnitta’s
arrival. This year, however, the Gen-
erals posted a 9-4 record with vic-
tories over four top-20 teams, includ-
ing fourth-ranked Franklin and Mar-
shall.

W&L was ranked 11th in Division
H1 in the final regular-seasori United
States Intercollegiate Lacrosse As-
sociation poll and its second—place
ﬁnish in the Old Dorriinion Athletic
Conference equalled the Generals’
best ﬁnish in league play.

For his achievements, Stagnitta
has been named The Ring-tum Phi‘s
Coach—of-the-Year.

“A real spark plug is the best
way to describe him,” said senior
defenseman Reid Campbell of Stag-
nitta. “The team was ready for a
turnaround. The talent was there. He
just gave us that extra bit — he was

 

the glue that brought it all together.” .

“Stagnitta was the whole motivat-
ing force in our tumaroimd,” senior
defenseman Mike Nunan said. “He
came in, laid down the rules, cleaned
the place up and got the whole thing
moving in the right direction.”

“Any coach coming into a new
situation brings a new outlook. Stag-
nitta did all the right things, put
people in the right places and made
us believe in ourselves,” said senior
attackman Chris Mastrogiovanni.

While waiting for a new coach,
the Generals did not have fall prac-
tice this year. When Stagnitta came
to Lexington W&L students were
busy preparing for final exams and
then everyone left campus for Christ-
mas break.

“I thought we'd be okay by start-
ing practice early in January, but we
had a slump in rriidseason because we
were tired and beat up. We peaked
later in the season,” Stagnitta said,
referring to the fact that W&L won
six of its last seven games.

“With fall ball we might have
peaked earlier and Lyrichburg might
not have happened,” he said, speak-
ing of the Generals 7-6 overtime loss
to the Hornets, W&L’s only less to
an uriranked tearri this season. (The
other three loses were to Virginia,
ranked sixth in Division I; Roanoke,

From W&L Sports Information

The Washington and Lee
men's lacrosse team placed four
players on the All-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference team, and
W&L was represented on the first
teams in two other sports as well.

Senior defenseman Reid
Campbell heads the list of Geri-
erals who were named to the All-
ODAC tearri. Campbell becomes
the first defenseman in conference
history to be named all-conference
four years in a row. Joining
Campbell on the squad was se-
nior defensernan Mike Nunan,
who was second on the team in
ground balls with 79.

Senior attackman Chris Mast-
rogiovaririi, who led the team in
scoring with 38 goals and six
assists was selected to the team
for the first time, as was senior
defensive rriidﬁelder Carlos Mil-
lari, who picked up 60 ground
balls.

In women's lacrosse, junior
Shawn Wert and sophomore Mel-
issa Manko were named first team
All-ODAC performers. Wert was
second on the team in scoring and
an integral part of the six game
winning streak that got the Gen-
erals to the ODAC tournament
semifinals. Manko helped bolster
the W&L defense, anchored by
sophomore goalie Erica Ingersoll,
who was named to the second
team.

Sophomore Steve Momorella
was the baseball team's lone
representative on the all-ODAC

' team. Momorella, the Generals’

Mgunt aph£s

A Better Alternative for:
Resumes
Flyera
ttoptzs
newsletters
lnvmrlons
Term Papers

93‘lX
115 W. Nelson - Across from the Post Office
463-1712 - FAX (703) 463-6918

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

  

Shawn Wort
...First team All-ODAC

wiririingest pitcher this season,
was named to the first. team.

Senior John Morris was ofﬁ-
cially named the top seed in the
NCAA Division III singles tour-
nament starting today at Swarth-
more College.

Morris, the defending singles
and doubles champion, has been
the top-rariked player in the na-
tion throughout the season. Mor-
ris, who has lost only once to a
Division IH player in the last two
years, will begin his title defense
against Greg Jarasitis of Cal-
Santa Barbara at 8:30 a.m.

In doubles, Morris and junior
Bill Meadows went into the tour-
narnent ranked eleventh in the
nation. On Wednesday, Morris
and Meadows were placed in the
draw as the seventh seed. They
will begin their quest for the
national championship this after-
noon against Andy Mouer and
Tom Cantine of host Swarthmore.

Grads or Seniors Moving to D.C.
M/ F to share
2 bedroom, 2 bath Apartment
in Alexandria near
Oldtown, Beltway, Metro

$425 + 1/2 Utilities
Pool & Tennis

(work) 1-800-969-8881
(home) 1-703-329-1886

 

cludiotronics

We Sell the Boot Seat: in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O CWD

KEF NEC
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

— ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR lNSTALl.ATlON DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 
  
    

 CATHOLIC
gjzizgjg CAMPUS
MINISTRY

  

  

St. Patrick’s Church

Mass Schedule:

Sat. 5:00 p.m.
Sun. 8:00 a.m.
10:30 a.m.

All Faculty & Students Welcome!

“I will not leave you orphaned;
I will come back to you.”

C.E. Hardy Jeweler

35 S. Main Street
463-4121

    

Prescriptions
Charge Accounts

0 Cosmetics 0Perﬁ4mes
0 Free Delivery

0'@'t&'¢&@¢¢@*'0*t¢ @I@|@*@N01

ks lacrosse resurgence
COACH-OF-THE-YEAR]

ranked ninth in Division IH; and
Washington College, ranked second in
Division III.)

“Lynchburg was the low point of
the season. In the long run that kept
us out of the (Division IH) national
toumament," Stagnitta continued.

Stagnitta, however, is upbeat when
viewing the season as it whole.

“It was an excellent season,” he
said. "You couldn't ask for anything
more considering the situation. Our
success wasn't a surprise to me after
we got going and everyone started
‘working in the system.

“I enjoyed seeing the progression
of the team this year. They learned
how to win, have fun and believe in
what they're doing again. The high-
point was watching the last two
weeks and seeing how people had
gotten better. There's no comparison
between the VMI game and January
6,” Stagnitta said, alluding to the
season finale, an 18-7 win over
W&L’s neighboring rival, and the
first day of practice.

The Generals also made dramatic
improvements statistically. In 1989
W&L scored just six goals a game
on 16.5 percent shooting. This sea-
son Stagnitta installed a deliberate
offensive scheme that averaged over
11 goals a game and scored on over
31 percent of its shots.

“I’m big on ball movement and I

believe in taking the best possible
shots," Stagnitta said.

A big reason for the offensive
improvement was Mastrogiovanni,
who scored 38 goals, with a shooting
percentage of 45.8, and had six as-
sists this season. Stagnitta noticed
that Mastrogiovanni moved well off
the ball, moved him from midﬁeld to
the crease and designed the offense
around him.

According to the W&L Sports
Information Office, Stagnitta was
considered by many to have been one
of the country's top Division I assis-
tant lacrosse coaches.

Stagnitta had been at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania as both a
player and coach. He was a three-
year letterman and a starting defen-
seman in his playing days. During his
senior year Penn was ranked third in
the nation.

After graduating from Penn in
1984 with a degree in psychology,
Stagnitta returned to his native Syra-
cuse, NY, and coached at the high
school and junior college levels. He
joined the Penn staff in 1987 as the
only full-tirne assistant.

Stagriitta’s players at W&L offered
nothing but praise for their new
coach.

“He's a great guy," said Mastro-
giovanrii. “He makes you work hard
and feel proud about what you're
doing on the ﬁeld.”

“On and off the ﬁeld everyone
respectshimasacoachandasa
frien ," senior defensive midfielder
Carlos Millan said.

Sophomore Clay Thomas lines up a putt at the Lexington Country:
Club. Thomas and the Generals will look to keep up their strong play
at the NCAA tournament next week. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely. 2

Golf team gets invitation to 
NCAA championship meet

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

For the Washington and Lee golf
team, a wait that began on April 30
has finally ended.

At approximately 11:00 Tuesday
morning, the NCAA called to say
that the Generals were included in the
20-team ﬁeld NCAA Division III golf
championships.

“The wait made us anxious [to
find out]," said head coach Buck
Leslie. “But we just tried to keep
practicing as if we were going to be
included. That's the only thing you
can do [when you don’t lmow]. We
felt like we deserved to go with the
season we had, but you never know
until you're in.”

W&L is 38-6 overall this season,
including victories in two Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference round-
robin tournaments and the Femirn
Invitational. W&L is coming off a
victory at the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championships.

Leslie said that the depth the team
has had throughout the season is the
main reason the team was in a posi-
tion to receive the bid. “The sign of
a good team is depth. We've beaten
some good teams, maybe teams better
than us through the top four, but
teams that we've been better than one
through six. If someone in the top

   

31 s. Main St., Lexington

  
 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

   

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES 8: CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Sat.

LEE Ill

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

four has a bad day, someone else has
to pick him up. We've done that all
year, and our scores show that.”

Sophomores Clay Thomas and Jay
McKnight led the team throughout’
the season. Thomas carries an aver-
age round of 78.9 and was ODAC?
Golfercf-the-Year. McKnight finished 
ﬁrst at the ODAC championships to;
earn All-ODAC honors along with;
Thomas. Joining them in Jekyll Island ;
will be classmate Brad Thobum, who ;
was fifth at the ODAC champion-j
ships, and co-captains junior Brian‘
Kopet and senior Ted Fox.

Although a top ten ﬁnish would
be nice, Leslie is not putting any"
pressure on the team to finish any
higher than they do. “For an ODAC
team, anywhere from 12 to 17 is a
good finish. Our best team in 1977
finished seventh, and they were pri-
marily juniors. This team is com-
parable to that team at this stage in’
their development, except that they're
a year younger. We're. just going
down there to play the course hole
by hole and take what we can get."

“This has been a very memorable
season to say the least, and to play in
the NCAA tournament is a great
reward. For the captains, Brian and
Ted, this is a great reward for their
leadership," said Leslie. “Evert if
you don’t play as well as you expect
to, it's still a great experience."

 
  
 

10 a.m. -5:30 p.m.

  
 
   

463-3355

BOBBY BERKSTRESSERA

      
       
   
   
     

1-800-768-LEHI

  

 

  

By Chris Swan
Staff Reporter

“He was honestly unaware that a
murder would follow the end of the
play.’’

With this line, Passion Play, a
debut murder mystery by a W&L
alumnus, begins a tale of suspense
and terror that takes the reader into
the mind of a psychotic killer rim
amok at a Virginia boarding school.

W. Edward Blain, W&L ’74, has
published a well-received novel that
other prominent authors have called
“highly original” and “inventive."

Blain visited campus for Alumni
Weekend and held a book—signing in
the W&L Bookstore.

Blain is the chairman of the en-
glish department at the Woodberry
Forest School, in Madison County,
Va., a school that closely resembles
Montpelier School, the setting for the
novel.

A native of Roanoke, Blain was
member of the Beta Theta Pi fraterni-
ty, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa.

He received his master’s degree in

Va. woman
to speak in

From the W&L News Office

Victoria Bond, music director of
the Roanoke Symphony Orchestra and
artistic director of the Southwest
Virginia Opera, will speak at 4 p.m.
on May 25 in Lee Chapel. The lec-
ture is open to the public.

Bond was voted 1989 “Woman of
the Year” in Virginia. Acclaimed as
one of today's most talented musi-
cians, she has been featured on the
NBC “Today Show,” the ABC
“Weekend Edition,” and “World
Monitor News,” and had been pro-
filed in national magazines and news-
papers.

Her visit to Washington and Lee
is sponsored jointly by the dean of
students office, the music department
and Trident.

Bond was the first woman to
graduate with a doctorate in
orchestral conducting from the Juil-

W&LIFE

English from the University of Vir-
ginia in 1976, and went on to teach
at Berry Academy in Georgia. In
1982, he joined the Woodberry Forest
faculty and became the full-tiine
chairman of the english department in
1987.

The first printing of Passion Play,
8500 copies, sold out quickly, so
quickly that the staff of the W&L
bookstore worried that they would not
receive their copies.

During his book—signing at W&L,
45 copies were sold, a number topped
only by Tom Wolfe during his last
visit to campus, said bookstore ern-
ployees.

Passion Play strings the reader
along a story of sex, violence, pas-
sion and murder. It revolves around
Thomas Boatwright, a sophomore at
Montpelier School, who finds himself
surrounded by a series of murders on
campus.

Blain portrays the thoughts of the
15-year-old well as he illustrates the
problems of adolescense through the
character.

Blain creates a cast of interesting
characters. Benjamin Warden is the

of the year
Lee Chapel

liard School. She was also the first
woman appointed EXXON/Arts En-
dowment Conductor with a major
orchestra (the Pittsburgh Symphony)
and the first woman to receive a
conducting grant from the National
Institute for Music Theatre to work at
the New York City Opera.

At the Juilliard School, Bond
studied under Herbert von Karajan
and Jean Morel.

Bond has received commissions to
write works for the American Ballet,
Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, Louis-
ville Stage One, and the Empire’s
State Institute for the Performing
Arts. She has appeared as guest con-
ductor with leading orchestras
throughout the United States and in
Europe and has conducted numerous
premieres of symphonic and operatic
repertoire.

A reception for Bond, women stu-
dents and faculty will be held after
the lecture in the Alumni House.

Beat The Heat --
Bowl A Few Frames.

DO IT

llilidiriigtit Madness  
11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

A Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695

The Ring-tum Phl, May 17, 1990

Alumnus debuts with Passion Play

english department head who must
face a terrﬁle and tragic event. Dan-
iel Famham is the rookie english
teacher and the director of the
scliool’s production of Othello whose
inner passions and demons haunt him.
Patrick McPhee is Boatwn'ght’s
basketball coach with a terrible child-
hood past. Greg Lipscomb is Boat-
wright’s black roommate who must
overcome prejudice by taking the lead
role in Othello. Angus Feriier is the
ominous caretaker of the school gym-
nasium who may hide several secrets.
Carol Lane is the policewoman
who must find out who is killing off
the student body one...by one...by
one.
Blain’s use of third person point
of view works well as the reader can
see into the minds of most of the
characters, but he witholds just
enough to command the reader's
interest until the climactic end.
Blain’s choice of Othello as the
school’s winter play is a corr_irnend-
able subplot. Just as Shakespeare’s
character gives in to his violent pas-
sion, so does the murderer who is
stalking the students at Montpelier.

In addition, Blain shows Boat-
wright and Lipscomb as they become
friends in the face of. racial stero-
types. These two very believable
characters ground the book in reality
with their compassion and humor.

Passion Play is currently available
at the W&L Bookstore.

 
  
        

130 S. Main St.

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

ELl2A1..MAL1.&
' \ Medical Ethide Institute (through May 20).

Sonoklect: A New Music Festival (continues through May 19).

Sonoklect Seminar: Composer Frederick Fox presents his '
music. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invite

Sonoklect Seminar: "Preparing for a Public Performance." Ell a.‘
Rose, principal violist, Dallas Symphony. Northen ‘
Auditorium. Publicinvited.

Sonoklect Pre-Concert Discussion with Composers. Lee
Chapel.

CONCERT: Sonoklect Ensemble: Performance of music by
composers-in-residence. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

MEDICAL ETHICS LECTURE: "Human Body Parts as Property
Ethical Issues in Organ Procurement and Distribution,"
James F. Childress, Edwin B. Kyle Professor of Religious T
Studies, University of Virginia. Northen Auditorium, *

University Library. Public invited. ’
ﬂIIJBQAI...llllAX_1.2

10 a.m. Sonoklect Seminar: Composer Chinary Ung presents his mus 
Room 327, Commerce School. Public invited.

CONCERT: Sonoklect Ensemble and W&L New Music
Ensemble will perform works by student composers. Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

Sonoklect Panel Discussion with composers. Room 327,
Commerce School. Public invited. L

CONCERT: Sonokloct Ensemble: Performance of New Music.

Lee Chapel. Reception to follow at W&L Alumni House.
Public invited.

 

10 a.m.

4 p.m.

7p.m.
8 p.m.

8 p.m.

1:30 p.m.

3 p.m.

8 p.m.

SAILQAILMALZQ

2:30 p.m. LAW SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT: Speaker: The Hon. Harry
Blackmun, Associate Justice of the United States Suprem :-
Court. Front Lawn.

MONDAY MAY 21

 

7 p.m. POLITICS FILMFEST: Breaker Morant. Room 221, Commerce
School.

IUESDAI, MA! 22

All Day Library Automation Demonstration of the Data Research
System. System overview at 9 a.m.; Online public catalog »
sessions at 9:30 a.m. and 2:45 p.m. Northen Auditorium,
University Library.

3 p.m. EAST ASIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "The Fight for Survival,"

Fulang Lo, former member of the Chinese Red Guard. ,,
Room 9, Newcomb Hall. Public invited. 0’

7 & 8:30 p.m. ISRAELI FILMS: My Michael and Noa at Seventeen. Room 203
Reid Hall.

 

 

7:30 p.m. W&L HISTORY LECTURE: "The Summer of '42: Women at
W&L During World War II," Alta Fowler. Northen Auditorium
University Library. Public invited.

WEDNESDAY MAY 23 pp

7 - 10 p.m. COMMUNITY CPR COURSE (May 23 - 25): 500-Level
Classroom, Warner Center. Limited enrollment. Call Cinda
Rankin, 463-8687.

8 p.m. PLAY: Romeo and Juliet. University Theatre. For reservations,

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK — Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 I Sat 9-12 noon

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

call theatre office, 463-8637. I

1

FOR SALE

New, forest green, Barbour, oiled cotton
coat (Beaufort model), Size 36. For $130.
Nights 703-337-3818.

 

4)-

463-7969

Best Fundraisers On Campus!

is your fraternity, sorority or club interested
in earning $1,000+ for a one-week, on-
campus marketing project? You must be
well-organized and hard working. Call Jenny
or Myra at (800) 592-2121.

Robby Jones
11 £3; Graduation
. e ii .
Lexington, Va. 24450 Announcements

Are In The

      
     
     

George’
Hairstylist

I36 Varner Lane
l)irectl_v behind I.eggett’s
463-3975 _
We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell
Open Evenings
Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

Bookstore.

Please Pick Them

 

Half Price

on cut ﬂowers

Saturdays 3-5 :30
at our

New Location

  
 

  

 

Ten East Nelson

 
    
     
   
 
   

'1 ‘Florist to the Homestead

Z
‘U
%

Dear Parentals,
Spring Terms A Go.
Studying, Yes
Failing, No!

 

Stuff To Send,
Nowhere To Stowe.
Please Send Dough! i
Love Me {

otppdgoggo‘ 7

FALL & WINTER MERCHANDISE
ON SALE NOW
New Spring items arriving daily

i

PS3-‘MARKS .
& PLEASURES :

23 N. Main St. p
Lexington, vA 24450 ; . S“”°aV”°°"-5PM  .
(703)463-5988 "= f

-117 West Nelson, Lexington
Open DaiIy1OAM-6PM

 

