 
 

l
.,l
i
4

  
 
 

tit’). ill
(_ ~Z.

    

"WE uoiviuaaiv 2 wsv..4~.rev

    n

t:‘,«’,ie9-av-'-tmree 3 l :55 *rw'.¥w.';"r
!.f'>!.'e.‘?“-.Tt."~N. W!-. 244m‘-

Meet the Big Three candidates  see page 4

Clip: Bing-tum iﬂlti

VOLUME 89, NO. 17

By Jason Kelley
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee’s 12th annual Mus-
cular Dystrophy Superdance raised over
$30,000 this weekend for “Jerry's Kids.”

Participating students solicited pledges and
danced at concerts Friday and Saturday night
at the student activities pavilion to raise
money for the Muscular Dystrophy Associa-
tion.

Lost in the Supermarket won Friday
night’s battle of the bands. Soul Kitchen
placed second. Those two bands led off
Saturday night’s program, followed by the

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Motown band Black and Blue and the head-
lining band Let’s Active.

Superdance Co—chairrnan Christie Charnp-
lin said the $30,000 goal for Superdance this
year was met even though contributions fell
just short of last year’s mark.

According to Charnplin, most of the
money has already been collected, but some
of it is in pledges. She said she hopes every-
one“ will follow through and contribute what
was promised.

“Friday night went really well — it was a
great time. Saturday, though, I think the
weather hurt us in terms of attendance, but it
was still fun,” Charnplin said.

Charnplin, along with Co-chairman Allen

Richardson, Vice—chairman Matt Wherry, and
Faculty Advisor Fontanne Bostic, led a com-
mittee of 40 that started planning the event
back in November.

most of any single dancer.

The Student Activities Board was the largest
organizational contributor and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon and Kappa Alpha Theta led the
fraternities and sororities in contributions.

the majority of the revenue. It was great to
see so many houses close to 100 percent
participation. And even though it was difﬁcult
because it was close to rush, it was great to
see the sororities participating,” Charnplin

John Suttle, a freshman, raised $200, the

“Fraternity support once again provided

said, adding that the law school showed good
participation as well.

The prize trip to the Bahamas was not
given out because no single participant raised
the $250 dollars required to claim this prize.

However, a number of other weekend trips
for two were given to the top money makers.
Suttle won a trip to the Williarnsburg Hilton,
and the Law School's top contributor, Beth
Benston, won a trip to Balcony Downs.

The SAB was given a weekend at the
Dupont Plaza in Washington, D.C. Sigma
Alpha Epsilon received a weekend at the
Greenbriar and Kappa Alpha Theta won a
night and brunch at the Belle Grae Inn in
Staunton.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

PBK taps
thirty-one
students

By Blair Simmons
Statf Reporter

Phi Beta Kappa elected 31 stu-
dents into membership and sent them
letters last week, said J. Brown
Goehring, the Secretary-Treasurer of
Washington and Lee’s chapter.

In addition to the 22 Seniors and
nine Juniors, Phi Beta Kappa elected
two members of the Class of 1989
and one member of the Class of
1967.

The newly elected members are:

JUNIORS: Amy Elizabeth Aus-
siker, Bernadette Marie Kempton,
Paige Courtney Kilian, Gregory Lloyd
Lyford, Harry Todd Pearce, Lydia
Jane Ellen Reid, Teri Leigh Snider,
Bryant Jonathan Spann and Matthew
John Wise.

0 Please see PBK page 5

Hey Mom!
Technical Director Tom Tinsley gives these Waddell
the camera on their recent tour of W&L’s Cable Channel 9 television station.

Elementary School students a view of it all from behind hi

on two

By Genlenne Mongno
Associate Editor

FEBRUARY 8, 1990

Superdance 1990 earns $30,000 for ‘Jerry’s Kids’

This is the second year that the Super-
dance has used the two-night format. Pre-
viously, the dancers had been required to start
dancing on Saturday morning and continue,
with intermittent breaks, all day and into the
evening.

Champlin said she thinks the new format
has worked out very well.

“The hardest thing to work out is the
bands. We really have to start looking in
November, but no band wants to sign a
contract in November for a February concert
date,” she said.

She said there were no last minute sur-
prises and that the Superdance staff worked
very well together to get everything done.

Comer indicted

COUl'llS

Mary Ashley Scarborough.

home and was alone.
the car."

didn't,’ ’ he said.

Charles “Blake” Comer was indicted by the Rockbridge County grand
jury Monday on charges of hit-and-run and involuntary manslaughter.

Comer, 21, told Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard on Nov. 30 that he
was driving the car involved in the March 16 hit-and-nm death of freshman

In his statement Comer said he was driving east on Washington Street
toward McDonalds when the accident occurred. He said he was on his way

Comer said Scarborough stepped off the curb and “stumbled in front of
“I was petriﬁed. I wish I would have stopped and gone back but I
Virginia State Trooper Cecil E. Bowen said at a preliminary hearing on
Jan. 30 that he believed Comerwas travelling west on Washington Street in

the eastbound lane when he hit Scarborough. Bowen said the location of
evidence found at the scene supported his conclusion.

Comer’s attorney Thomas Spencer said a judge would set a trial date on

May 7.

Master Plan supported at public hearing

 

By Andrew Waters
Staff Reporter

‘ Washington and Lee’s Master Plan received
praise from most of the people who turned out
for last Thursday's public hearing, but a few
residents asked for assurance that the city's tax
base would not shrink.

Sixteen people gave short presentations
before the Lexington Planning Commission; 13
spoke in favor of the Master Plan while three
either opposed the proposal or questioned parts
of it.

Part the Master Plan proposes to expand the
city's institutional zoning district to include
fraternity houses the university plans to acquire
through the Fraternity Renaissance Program.
Some citizens were concerned that Lexington’s
tax base would shrink as a result because W&L
would not have ‘to pay taxes for the property.

Jack Page, a Virginia Military Institute
professor and Lexington resident, said he
wanted assurance that the university will pay
taxes. “I would like to see all property within
the city limits pay assessed rates as determined
by the city and have open appeals thereof."

W&L’s Coordinator for Capital Planning
Frank Parsons said the university would give
donations to the city in lieu of taxes. The
donation would be an “escalating thing,” he
said.

“As assessments go up, donations go up. The
city is losing nothing from this," he said.

W&L and VMI currently give the city
donations in lieu of taxes on a voluntary basis.

Because W&L, VMI and churches are
exempt from paying city taxes, more than 50
percent of the land in Lexington is tax free —
- a greater proportion of tax free land than in
another city in Virginia. Consequently,
Lexington residents pay more taxes than any

other citizens in Virginia, said Mary Gentry,
chairwoman of the Planning Commission.

“The Planning Commission is aware that 10
years from now the same people will not be on
the [W&L] Board of Trustees nor on the Plan-
ning Commission," Gentry said, “so something
must be put into writing’ to. insure adequate
donations in the future.

Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins, associate dean

of students, told the commission that the
Fraternity Renaissance Program represents a
potential for increased income to the city.
Fourteen new jobs will be created, he said,
because each fraternity will have to hire a
resident manager.
‘ Former Plarming Commission chairman
Henry Ravenhorst said the city should go ahead
and approve the expansion of the institutional
district according to the outline in W&Ls
Master Plan.

Ravenhorst, who was on the planning

cornmission-when the institutional district was
established in 1985, said fraternities were not
originally included as part of the district be-
cause the university did not own them at that
time.

“It would seem to me that fraternities being
an adjunct of the university that they could be
included as a permitted use as opposed to a
conditimal use,” Ravenhorst said.

If the city agrees to include fraternities in
the institutional district, the university can have
changes approved on a system-wide basis rather
than go through the process of applying for a
conditional use permit for each house.

Members of the Planning Commission
expressed concerns earlier, however, that the
city would relinquish the ability to review
proposed changes in the future if it allowed the
expansion.

D Please see PLAN page 5

Semester—|ong probation ends early for Phi Delt

By Chuck Broll
Staff Reporter

Phi Delta Theta was taken off
probationary status last Thursday
afternoon by the Student Affairs
Committee upon recommendations
from the Interfratemity Council and
the chapter's House Corporation, Phi
Delt Chapter President Warren Hol-
land said.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy
C. “Buddy” Atkins said “under
conditions of unusual progress” and
with approval of the chapter’s House
Corporation, the probation was lifted

Trustees

By Blair Simmons
Staff Reporter

Undergraduate tuition will be
raised from $10,100 to $10,850 for
the 1990-91 academic year, an-
nounced Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson.

The Board of Trustees decided to
increase the average cost of room,
board and tuition by 7.3% to keep up
with inﬂation in the cost of books
and periodicals, computer software
and faculty and administration travel,
said Wilson. «

The average cost will jump from
an average of $13,602 to an average
of $14,595. “I was hoping to keep it
under 7% but I couldn't, doing all
the other things we wanted to do,”
Wilson said.

W&L costs less to attend than

sooner than expected.

According to the Sept. 7 issue of
The Ring-tum Phi, Atkins placed Phi
Delt on probation on Aug. 22 for
failing to comply with the univer-
sity’s Standards for Fraternities at
Washington and Lee.

According to University Proctor
Charles Murray, damage to the Phi
Delt house last spring term included
broken ceiling fans, removed or par-
tially removed light fixtures, kicked-in
doors and broken windows on the
second and third ﬂoors. Beer cans
and other trash were also left over
the summer, Murray said.

In a letter sent to Holland, Atkins

approve

comparable private schools in the
Southeast, said Wilson, with the ex-
ception of Hampden-Sydney. The
next lowest tuition rate is $10,867, at
Davidson College.

The most expensive school in the
area is Georgetown University, cost-
ing $13,250 for the 1989-90 academic
year.

W&L Law School tuition will go
up from $10,300 to $11,200, staying
below tuitions at comparable private
schools in the region, said Wilson.

Executive Committee President
Willard Dumas said he told the
Board that law school students may
be presenting a petition requesting a
referendum to determine whether or
not there should be separate honor
systems for the law and the under-
graduate schools.

“If members of the law school
request a referendum, we would do

said the house was left “just general-
ly trashed” at the end of the spring
term. Atkins said it was the second
consecutive year the fraternity was
found in “unacceptable” condition
and in violation of the Standards.
The letter placed several restric-
tions on the chapter to be completed
by the beginning of the coming spr-
ing term. These included limiting the
number of pledges to 15, prohibiting
weeknight parties, and limiting other
parties to four per month with only
two occurring at the Phi Delt house.
According to Atkins, the house
was also required to raise its Grade
Point Average one place per term in

the rankings of fraternities.

In addition, Atkins said, the frater-

nity was required to “develop and
implement an ongoing service project
to beneﬁt the community, the college
or the Greek system.”
, “The chapter must improve its
relationship and cooperation with
other Greek organizations on campus
and substantially improve its reputa-
tion,” he said.

Other restrictions, which were to
have been completed by Oct. 1,
required that the -house take appro-
priate intemal disciplinary measures,
assist the House Corporation in com-
pleting the necessary repairs, and

tuition increase

that,” said Dumas after speaking with
the Board. “However, the Board
reminded me that they have ﬁnal
authority on all matters of the Honor
System.”

The Board of Trustees approved
the creation of a new position in the
Journalism and Economics Depart-
ments, two new positions at the law
school and the accommodation of
Dean Lewis John's move to the Poli-
tics Department in an effort to en-
rich the student-faculty ratio, Wilson
said.

The Board also decided to hire a
staff member for the Computer Cen-
ter in Tucker Hall, a manager for the
Lenfest Center and Building and
Grounds help for the Lenfest Center
and the Fraternity Renovation pro-
jects.

Thirteen million dollars worth of
bonds have been sent to the bond

market to raise capital, said Wilson.
The Board plans to use that money to
upgrade the Prime computer system
and to go forward this summer with
the Fraternity Renaissance program.

Work on the addition to Lewis
Hall, to accommodate the papers of
Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell,
is scheduled to begin as soon after
Commencement as possible, in hopes
that it will closed up by September,
said Wilson.

The Board also approved progress
on the Lenfest Center but moved the
projected completion date to the end
of September, said Wilson.

The Board is planning a special
meeting on April 5-6 to discuss long-
range plans and goals, such as a,
science building annex, a student
center and improved athletic facilities
for men and women under the stands
at Wilson ﬁeld, Wilson said.

identify the members responsible for
the damage to the house.

Holland said representatives of his
fraternity first met with Atkins on
Sept. 6 in a failed attempt to get
Atkins to rescind some parts of the
probation. Holland ofﬁcially applied
for the termination of the probation-
ary status in a Jan. 30 letter to the
IFC Judicial Board.

In the letter, Holland said Phi Delt
had “fulﬁlled all of the objectives
and stipulations of the probation.”

According to Holland, the house
limited its pledges to 15, complied

0 Please see PHI DELT page 5

  
   

Ne trustees

If convicted, Comer could be sentenced to up to ﬁve years in prison for
t-and-rtm andten years for involuntary manslaughter.

W&L buys
old house

from ZBT

By Chuck Broll
Staff Reporter

Goodloe Lewis defeated Les
Lewis for the position of 1990-91
lnterfratemity Council president and
Associate Dean of Students Leroy C.
“Buddy” Atkins said the university
and Zeta Beta Tau have agreed on a
price for the purchase of the ZBT
house, at Tuesday night’s IFC meet-
ing.

Lewis will serve as president
beginning spring term, along with
Vice President-elect Mike Skarda,
Secretary-elect Jonathan Symonds,
Treasurer-elect Foster Bowman, Se-
nior Justice-elect Eric Mutz and Ju-
nior Justices-elect Rob Rambo and
Greg Hicks.

Atkins gave no speciﬁc price
regarding the purchase of the ZBT
house because the agreement is only
a verbal one and contracts have not
yet been signed, he said.

Atkins did say, however, that the
ﬁnal price was more than the univer-
sity wanted to pay, but less than ZBT
national originally asked.

The house will probably be the
future home of Kappa Sigma, but it
may also be used to house various
fraternity students during the Fratemi~
ty Renaissance, Atkins said.

Attending their first meeting as members of W&L’s Board of Trustees
last weekend were Thomas Broadus Jr., Stephen Marks Ill and Arthur
A. Birney. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

 

 
 

OPINION

 

‘Only one rule’

Friday in the Moot Court Room of Washington and
Lec’s Law School, first-year law student Mitch Neurock
laid out what he and several law students are calling
“Proposition L.” These proposed amendments to the
White Book would allow the Law School to set up its
own honor council and to conduct its own open hearings.

While Neurock’s‘ ideas have some merit, we cannot
support them. As two law students pointed out on this
page last week, the Honor System is an important bridge
between the Law School and the undergraduate program.
But it is not simply a means to unity. The Honor System
is perhaps the most integral part of this university; it
should be the greatest lesson we take from this place.

Neurock’s proposal does not take this into account. For
example, he suggests that, because expulsion could cost a
law student his career, only law students should judge law
students. He implies that a law-only jury would be less
likely to convict one of their colleagues than a jury that
includes undergraduates, because law students understand
what’s at stake. Neurock wants us to ask, “Is the
punishment appropriate to the crime?”

The willingness of any student to ask such a question
reveals a fundamental misunderstanding of the Honor
System. Because our community is based on a premise of
trust, violation of that trust necessarily means the offender
must leave W&L. Whether an act “merits” expulsion is
irrelevant. That is why the EC and juries are asked only
to determine guilt; once guilt is found, the case is
decided. To understand the White Book is to understand
that expulsion is the only possible response to an honor
violation, because a violator of our trust cannot possibly
remain a member of our community.

Also, Neurock claims undergraduates must ask too
many questions to understand how the Law School works;
he says curricular differences make undergraduates poor
judges of honor in the Law School. The implication is
that the definition of what is honorable varies according to
where one is in relation to Woods Creek. This treats
honor as a set of calibrations rather than a concept, as a
technical standard rather than a shared ideal.

The Honor System is very simple. If a student does not
violate our trust, he is trusted. That trust crosses all lines
of color, age, sex _— and school.

To divide the Honor System is to divide that trust, to
compartmentalize honor. That undergraduates and law
students do not meet often is unfortunate, but it reﬂects
the natural inclination for people to seek as friends those
with whom they have much in common. All W&L stu-
dents are nevertheless bound by a commitment to honor.
To separate the means of enforcement necessarily would
endanger that concept and jeopardize essential aspects of
the Honor System, such as the single sanction, the ab-
sence of rigid deﬁnition and the contributions students
make to the Honor System campus-wide. «  ,

There are other reasons to oppose Neurock’s plan.
Under his proposals, the diminished candidate and jury

pools would make holding impartial hearings all but im-

possible. Also, law students would still help elect the
undergraduate schools’ chief Honor System custodians,
because of the EC’s governmental duties, but those offi-
cers would have honor authority over undergraduates only.
This distinction would discourage law students from run-
ning for Big Three offices and would further deprive
undergraduates of contact with law students, and law
students of contact with undergraduates.

We can all benefit from the Honor System by studying
it and making its ideals our own, and the system can
benefit from us if we work to preserve and improve what
has been given to us. Indeed, that mutual nurturing may
be W&L’s greatest mission and its greatest asset. For
those reasons, we applaud Neurock’s efforts. But his ideas
would undermine the system, not improve it. The response
to his suggestions must be a resounding no.

Quote of the week

We are winning the. war on drugs! —— D.C. Mayor
Marion Barry. As National Review observed, that’s the

The Rlng-tum Phl, February 8, 1990

 
    
  
 

  

Who saved
The SAB did

OUR VIEW

 

lllllil

'7DT0xImsfng

8

The EC did

  
 

“\‘~§\\*~
 - "t f: E
\

   
 
       
  

  

  
   
   


 

//V4,


4;,//' ’ .

/

the SAB. 

-.2

 \
OUR VIEW 

EDITOR'S NOTE: This ‘Our View’ was submitted by SAB Chairman Charles
Conklin, Vice Chairman Stewart Hammond, Entertainment Director Michael

Applebaum, Fancy Dress Chairman Alex Hitz, Fancy Dress Auditor John‘

Hamilton, and Publicity Director Schuyler Rideout.

It has come to our attention that one of the candidates for president of the
Executive Committee, Willard Dumas, intends to take autonomous credit for
the Student Activities Board’s ten thousand dollar surplus from the fall.

Subsequently, Dumas plans to use the fact that the SAB has succeeded in
providing a variety of excellent entertainment without signiﬁcant loss as a
premise for his campaign. Actually, this premise warrants clariﬁcation.

Although the EC as a whole did implement effective and sensible structural
guidelines for the SAB earlier this year, it is indeed the SAB, itself, that is
responsible for -the success of carnpus-wide entertainment at a minimum net
cost.

This is not something that has been easily achieved; it .has required
painstaking organization, communication, research, and teamwork on the part
of the SAB.

As an example, the first event this year, a concert by the Truly Dangerous
Swamp Band, sponsored by the SAB, earned a net income in excess of eight
times the combined revenue of all SAB-sponsored events from last year.

Certainly a member of the EC who does not sit on the SAB or even attend
the majority of SAB sponsored events can not be considered responsible for
the success of the SAB this year.

Through careful planning, the SAB planned to provide eight events at a net
cost of $13,000. However, because of the SAB’s hard work, the net cost of
all these events was only $3,000.

While we appreciate the EC’s preliminary efforts, it is the SAB that
executed and expanded the new policies. We and not the EC were responsible
for the major and minor decisions that saved the $10,000 of the projected
budget. And we believe that if anyone has the right, or feels the need to take
credit for this action, it should be the SAB, and not a candidate for the
president of the EC.

. 54.,

EDITOR'S NOTE: This ‘Our View’ was submitted by SAB Treasurer Katie’
Duwel, SAB Law School Publicity Chairman Martika Parson and Operatiom
Director Ann Gregory. - ‘ i .,

The changes that spurred the current success of the Student‘Activities Board’
can be largely attributed to the Executive Committee and its leadership by.
President Willard Dumas. Last year's board mismanaged its allocation, and al
$20,000 deficit fell on this year’s EC. Change was a necessity. I

The EC insisted in the fall of 1989 that the SAB improve both structure
and organization to prevent further financial disaster. Vice President Jon,‘
Sheinberg “beseeched” SAB chairman Charles Conklin to take charge and
straighten out the SAB. President Dumas insisted that votes be taken, minutes‘
be kept and meetings be held at regular times and in the EC Room. These,
demands were met, as were many others, by the entire SAB. Each member
stopped using charge accounts and became accountable for the responsibili-‘V’
ties of his office. The changes were time-consurning but well worth it. yl

Each student pays a yearly activity fee with his tuition, and a large portion
of that fee is allocated by the EC to the SAB. The money assigned to the
SAB is to be used solely for entertaining the student body. The SAB is.
accountable to the EC and, ultimately, to every student. Many financial
updates are given to the EC and to students through The Ring-tum Phi. w .

Because our fall budget was extremely conservative and the books were,
watched carefully, the SAB has $10,000 more this term than we'd planned on."
This money, too, will be spent wisely and diversely to entertain as many;
interests as possible. For this, much thanks is owed to both the EC and the
SAB for wise judgement and planning. .

Although the SAB is a subcommittee of the EC, its purpose is not political,
We praise those leaders who have committed themselves to protecting the
rights and interests of the student body. The actions of the EC this year have
forced the SAB to reevaluate ineffective policies. These changes were effected
through the hard work and leadership demonstrated by the EC. This is a year
of transition for the SAB. Through the guidance of leaders like Dumas, and
our willingness to cooperate with the EC, success is inevitable for the SAB. ’

problem — his side is winning.

  

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

 

  

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Founded September 18, 1897

   

Editors

.Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison

 

  
 

Associate Editors ................................... ..Jarnes Lake, Genienne Mongno
Assignment Editor ........... .. Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor ...................................................... ..Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor .......................................................... ..Pamela Kelley

    

Sports Editor .................................................................... ..Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor ............................................................. ..Alesha Priebe
Editorial Cartoonist ........................................................... ..Jeff Woodland

 

 

     

Business Manager ...................................................... ..Anne Dysart
Advertising Manager ............................................................. Jason Kelley
Circulation Managers ................................. ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

  

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

 
  
 
 
 
 
  

 

 
  

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

 

    

  

 
  

 
 

Law alumnus
apologizes for
meal mayhem

Ryan M. Kull’s letter to the editor concerning
this year’s Gentlernen’s “Buffet” (this year, the
meal was served) is unfair, but not unprovoked.
I have attended the “ Buffet” since its inception
four years ago. This year is the first time that I
have seen any of the guests misbehave.

The “Buffet” was founded by some class-
mates of mine for the purpose of celebrating the
South. Even this year, the majority of the guests
discussed history (military and other-wise),
constitutional law (particularly the erosion of
states’ rights), and southern culture. The embar-
rassing episode in which certain guests harassed
the waiters was not representative of the eve-
ning’s events.

The song to which Mr. Kull referred, “Lin-
coln killed the Constitution,” written by Mark-
ham S. Pyle (W&L '84, ’88L), more accurately
reﬂects the thinking of the original guests of the
“Buffet" in its third verse:

The sovereignty of states is something that is
now all gone...The Tenth amendment fades away
like stars before the dawn...The federal undertak-
ers tore up Arlington's fair lawn...’Cause the
Constitution’s dead..Help me dig up old John
Randolph”!-Ielp me dig up old John Randolph...
Help me dig up old John Randolph... And hide
away his bones.

LETTERS

The recent events in Eastern Europe have
vindicated the concepts of local autonomy and
states’ rights, and these are what the “Buffet”
celebrates.

Four years ago, when the “Buffet” began,
about half as many gentlemen attended. The
invitations were not as selectively extended this
year as a number of the guests were not gentle-
men. In fact, after this year's “Buffet," a num-
ber of the old timers retired to more tranquil
settings and discussed (1) how rude some of the
guests had been this year and (2) how the guest
list should be prepared with more discrimination
so as to include only gentlemen.

What was originally an evening of comradery,
history, and culture, degenerated into an evening
(albeit isolated) of drinking by some guests.
General Lee would have disapproved I join Mr.
Kull in hoping that it will not be repeated next
year.

James N. L. Humphreys, '84, ’87L

Reader says
Phi should
censor letters

I am writing to you regarding the colurrm
“Two Law Students Defend the Unified Honor
System" that appeared last week. Having taken
issue already with the authors, I now turn to
address your publication of the letters.

Given that the editors and writers of The

Ring-tum Phi represent the next generation of the
guardians of American media, you owe it to your
readers to uphold the honored privilege of Free
Speech. However, given also an audience of
well-educated and generally open-minded
students, are you required to print, without
discrimination, every letter submitted regardless
of content?

On closer examination, those columns you
printed last week appear less concerned . with
presenting a counter-argument for your readers to
consider than with bashing a student having the
brazen audacity to criticize the status quo. What
place do the free use of inﬂammatory expressions
as ‘yellow journalism,’ and ‘fear tactics’ have in
your paper? Is everyone free to make personal
attacks in your editorial columns, such as accus-
ing another student of being ‘pompous,’ ‘arro-
gant,’ or ‘ludicrous?’ Does The Ring-tum Phi
have the journalistic duty to print such thinly-
veiled disparagements?

While the objective arguments presented by
the authors may have been worthy of being aired,
the manner in which they presented those argu-
ments was hardly as meritorious. Is it enough,
then, having printed this written assault, to stand
behind the disclaimer, “The views expressed
herein are not necessarily...?”

Instead of polling the results of the Bud
Bowl, why not find out whether your readers
want a paper steeped in the standard of journal-
ism being set by daytime talk show sensational-
ists, or an accurate, objective reporting of what
the issues are in the W&L community? Put me
down for the latter, please. I already get the
Enquirer at Harris-Teeter.

J. T. Feezell, ’92L

-;

 

  

I
I
4

The Ring-tum Phl, February 8, 1990

' THE SBAR SIDE

By Jon Sbar

In an effort to satisfy my fe-

, male editor's ardent desire for a

fulﬁlling journalistic encounter, I

'3 will endeavor to penetrate the
5 vrrgrnal landscape of current affairs

by thrusting my virile writing

i utensil into yet another topical

story.
In this article I have decided to

i ’ 4 address those perplexing mysteries

of human existence that have frus-
trated philosophers since the old

¢ days when mankind was still ﬂoat-

ing around in that post-big bang,
evolutionary bowl of clam chow-

’ ; der, and journalists were allowed

. ._,A.,--4:-. .

.
. 
l

to tell careless readers to go back
and slowly re-read the ﬁrst sen-
tence of their articles.

The first perplexing mystery in-
t volves movie theaters, where peo-
ple have historically gone to avoid
talking to ﬁrst dates or family
members. For some strange reason,
a subversive and highly annoying
group of people persist in clapping
at the end of emotional movies
H: such as E.T., in which an ugly,

extra-terrestrial creature is inte-
grated into American society after
proving he can use a telephone
and ride a ﬂying bicycle. Do these
movie clappers believe that the
cast and producers of E.T. are
,5 sitting near them in the theater and
' deserve to be rewarded? Perhaps
the clappers are all addicted to an
expensive psychedelic drug that is
dispensed freely to anyone with
the nerve to clap at the end of a
movie. Maybe the clappers have
been told by Ann Landers or
Oprah Winfrey that daily clapping
will bring them wealth, love and a
new wardrobe. Maybe the movie
clappers also clap when they hear
a good song on the radio. Maybe
we should move on to another per-
‘i plexing mystery. (Readers who

Sbar penetrates
world mysteries

think this is a good idea should
now applaud).

Perplexing mystery #2: Why
is every motel room in the solar
system, even those that have vi-
brating beds, fumished with at
least one Bible?

Answer: Back before they in-
vented churches, pious families
woke up early Sunday, put on
their best clothes, checked into a
motel room and without hesita-
tion, turned on the vibrating beds.
Of course, I'm only joking. Motels
provide Bibles so patrons have
drug-free alternatives to staying up
late and watching porn ﬂicks.

Perplexlng mystery #3: How
come the corporate world has been
allowed to take over college foot-
ball to such an extent that the
Orange Bowl is now referred to as
the “Beatrice-Mutual of Omaha-
Toyota-Drink Florida Orange
(Juice) Bowl?”

Answer: I have no idea but
let's just thank God that journalism
is free from any type of corporate
inﬂuence (eat Cap’n Crunch Cereal
and ﬂy Delta Airlines).

Perplexlng mystery #4: What
happens to all the gum that people

constantly spit out onto the
ground?
Answer: According to the

person who answers the phone at
the Bazooka Joe Gum factory, all
the old gum pieces bonded togeth-
er (literally), teamed up with an
indigenous rock faction and lob-
bied to gain control of a layer of
the earth's crust.

Perplexlng mystery #5: What
influenced me to write an article
that proves beyond a shadow of a
doubt that I deserve to be locked
up in a building with people who
express themselves by drooling?

Answer: Actually, I had plan-
ned to write an award-winning
editorial on developments in East-
ern Europe when it occurred to me
that I keep up with current events
by reading novels and, consequent-
ly, know nothing about the subject.

Honor by an EC alumnus

MY VIEW
By Christopher

deMovellan
I enjoyed reading D. Ross Pat-
terson's thought-provoking article

titled, “R.E. Lee’s ‘Honor’ vs. the
Honor System.” It is a treat to see
students concerned about the current
and future status of the Honor Sys-
tern.

I do not intend to rebut Mr. Pat-
terson because I generally agree with
his point of view. I would like to
clarify and/or editorialize on some of
the comments made, based on my
experience with the Executive Com-
mittee.

We must first deﬁne two words
which are often used interchange-
ably: honorable and honest. Webster’s
Dictionary defines honorable as “at-
testing to creditable conduct — char-
acterized by integrity; guided by a
high sense of honor and duty.” Web-
ster’s deﬁnes honest, “free from
fraud or deception.” In layman’s

terms, honorable is someone who is
morally and ethically upstanding and
treats others with respect. Honest is
someone who does not lie, cheat,
steal or do any other associable act
that falls between the cracks of these
general examples.

It quickly becomes apparent that
one can be honest without being
honorable, but one cannot be honor-
able without being honest. If we can
agree on these terms I will continue.

It was said last year that we
should change the Honor System to
“Do not lie, cheat, or steal in Rock-
bridge County.” I respect the individ-
ual for his/her clarity (but not so
much for his/her character). The
White Book states that the Honor
System is “according to the current
student body generation.” That means
it is up to each individual to shape
the Honor System.

It would appear that the current
system governs that which is (dis)ho-
nest rather than that which is (dis)ho-
norable. I hasten to add that this is
not written in stone...it is not written
anywhere for a very good reason.

When the “current student body
generation” decides that the Honor
System should include acts that are
(dis)honorable (beyond dishonest),
then the acquaintance rapists, drug
offenders, vandals, and those who
continue to insist on hazing will be
dismissed under the Honor System.
The Executive Committee has the
ability to do these things today. They
probably will not unless you, the
student body, emphasize the fact that
students, not the EC, control and
support the strength and standards of
the Honor System.

Ross commented on the support
of the faculty and administration. I
wish to explain that in my experi-
ence, the faculty and the admirristra—
tion have been 100 percent behind
the Honor System. The members of
the faculty beneﬁt from the system of
mutual trust as well: when a student
says she/he was sick, the student can
be trusted. There are exceptions, but
they are few. President Wilson has
assured me that every member of our
community is expected to act within
these standards, and even faculty

members are held accountable.

It is important to note, however,
that there is a delicate balance be-
tween the pursuit of an ideal and the
existence of reality. The fact that we
actively support one of the strongest
honor systems in the country does
not eliminate the reality that people
lie, cheat, and steal. The faculty and
students must balance between the
naive and the cynical. Therefore, a
gentle reminder that all work is
pledged is healthy and may deter
temptation. An occasional request for
a note from the inﬁrmary does the
same thing. If you are telling the
truth, be mature enough not to take it
personally; the next time you won’t
need a note.

The Honor System is very impor-
tant to all of us. Its strength makes
Washington and Lee unique. I thank
D. Ross Patterson for his article
because the Honor System grows
with every tough question and every
critical analysis.

P.S. It is true that you take the
Honor System with you to you post-
graduate endeavors.

Honor versus the Honor System

MY VIEW
By Todd Peppers

I am writing in response to D. Ross Patterson’s
commendable article concerning the disturbing
trend in the definition of honor at Washington and
Lee. I essentially agreed with most of the points
Mr. Patterson raised. The question I want to pose
is: are there any students in the Washington and
Lee community who agree with him? Do you think
that honor goes beyond lying, cheating, and
stealing? I_f a W&L student is found guilty of
leaving the scene of a fatal accident, then do you
consider that action dishonorable?

Please remember that the Executive Committee
is run by the students of W&L. We select who
will sit on the EC, and we — the “student
generation” — decide how to deﬁne honor. I have
difﬁculty interpreting the mood of our student
generation. Are there W&L students who agree that
honorable actions exclude harmful actions toward
others? If there are students who think it is time to
change the deﬁnition of honor, then I urge you to
act on those feelings.

I have talked with a few students about my
worries concerning the Honor System Some agree
with me, in principle, that actions such as date
rape or the selling of hard narcotics do constitute
dishonorable behavior. But these students add that
the Honor System at W&L couldn’t handle an
expanded deﬁnition of honor. One professor
informed me that the Honor System gives us
“three-fourths of a loaf of bread. What you want
is to expand the definition of honor and try to get
the whole loaf of bread. It just isn't possible,” he
said. “The Honor System would be fatally
weakened.”

I am not satisﬁed with this conclusion.

In a Phi article last September, I raised a
fundamental question but failed to get a response.
I will ask my question one more time — what do
you consider to be the more dishonorable act: the
shoplifting of food, lying to a fellow student or
date rape? All three acts do occur on this campus.
But during my tenure at W&L, and to the best of
my knowledge, only the ﬁrst two acts have gone
to honor trial. How can we permanently expel
students from school for cheating — forever
changing the course of their lives -— while not
bringing students before the EC for actions we

deem equally reprehensible?

As W&L students, we claim to live by Lee’s
one rule that “every student must be a
gentleman." And I agree with Mr. Patterson that
the privilege of being a W&L student “must cause
[us] to conform to a higher standard of behavior.”
But that doesn’t always happen at General Lee’s
college. Honor must go beyond unproctored exarrrs
during finals week and unattended watches on
library carrels.

I came to W&L a passionate supporter of the
single-sanction Honor System. I thought honor was
not a question of degree, and that the only
punishment for a violation should be permanent
expulsion. Now I am not so staunch in my
convictions. I hear W&L students remark that they
regard certain actions utterly devoid of honor, but
that the system would be unduly burdened if the
EC tried those cases. What they are saying, in
essence, is that date rape and cheating are both
dishonorable, but one is much easier to prove —
therefore honor will be defined by the ability to
prosecute a case. This is wrong.

I ardently support the single-sanction Honor
System if it applies to all actions that are

C] Please see PEPPERS page 5

No math, no God, notruth? Absolutely!

 :MY VIEW

jg, By J. Cameron Humphries

Among the many activities in which I par-
ticipated in my senior year in high school
. were the visits to perspective colleges and
' universities. Perhaps my most memorable
" visit, the visit to Washington and Lee aside,
was a trip to small, northeastern liberal arts
school. My parents warned me against the
northeast universities — my mother said,
r “they just don’t think properly up there."
.‘Perhaps this admonition sparked my interest
- even more, and I proceeded to visit one of
‘these small schools.
Unlike Washington and Lee, this universi-
l ty chose only to promote one of their depart-
Qments, most appropriately labeled “Anti-
’ Math.” To the best of my knowledge, this
.1 was the only university in the world that

offered such a program. Basically, this
program allowed its students to explore and
exploit the fallacies and hidden contradictions
of mathematics. A small brochure in the
admissions ofﬁce stated, “We are conﬁdent
that our Anti-Math program will be the
cornerstone of 2lst-century thought.” Im-
pressed by their originality, I asked to visit
the head of this department.

His classroom was surprisingly modest,
although it markedly contained no structure.
The walls were of uneven height and the
ceiling looked as though it were about to
collapse. Posters of atomic mushroom clouds,
nuclear missiles, collapsed architectural struc-
tures, and cartoons of robots controlling
mankind covered the walls. A subtle feeling
of repulsion filled me as I looked upon the
professor who designed this course. Then he
looked up to see me.

“Welcome, you must be the perspective.”

“Yes sir, it is a pleasure to meet you.”

“Yes, this is the Anti-Math room. This

room is a temple to the foolishness of man’s
unquestioning acceptance of mathematics. For
example, did you know that when Euclid
developed mathematics — yes that’s another
important point, math has not always existed,
man merely invented it to explain some
matters of the universe, but that’s another
subject - he tried to begin by deﬁning all his
principles at ﬁrst, then using those he would
deduce all other theorems. Well, he couldn’t
do it.”

The professor became flushed at this
point. “No, he had to insert another principle
to prove that parallel lines do not converge.
Geometry just falls apart because of that. Of
course you know that Frenchman had to come
along in the 18th century to try to tidy that
oversight up, but by then it was too late. And
what about divisibility by zero? Mathematics
just cannot handle it. We just as well take the
whole system on faith. How do we know that
two plus two equals four? How do we even
know that we are talking about the same two,

the same four? It’s all relative; there are no
absolutes. That's the kind of subject matter
we cover with our intro to Anti-Math class.
You’ll study the contradictions and the conse-
quences of math.

“Look at that,” he said, pointing to the
poster of the mushroom cloud. “You’re a
smart boy, you know what horrors nuclear
weapons cause. If it weren’t for math, there
would be no such horrors. That’s right, no
weapons, no wars, no borders, nothing. It is
mathematics which divides and separates man.
Well, that’s enough for an introduction to our
program. I look forward to seeing you next
fall.” ‘

On the trip home I realized how simply
foolish the thought of Anti-Math was. In the
vain pursuit of living in a world without
math, he only further asserted its absolute
existence. Merely because he chose not to
acknowledge measurement in the design of
his classroom in no way altered the fact that
the only thing the professor had failed to use

was a ruler. In an odd sense the premise of
Anti-Math required that its followers ﬁrst
acknowledge that math exists, so that they
could “step outside" the rules of math to
disprove them. Yet as I returned to high
school, and then to college, I noticed a no-
less-absurd Anti-Trutlr, Anti-Church and
Anti—God program that permeated every
college and university in the world. For some
reason “intellectual man” has found it per-
fectly acceptable to apply the same fallacious
arguments that the professor used in his
Anti-Math thesis to “soundly” ridicule the
notion that Truth exists, organized religion is
valid, or that there is a God. Instead of
attacking what the Truth states, we attack
what man has done and attempted to justify
in the name of the Truth. We live in a world
that lives and teaches the professor's final
argument, “there are no absolutes.” Yet this
very premise assumes the existence of at least
one absolute. We laugh at the thought of
Anti-Math and his arguments, but why?

By Karsten Amlie

-— '  :

J

 

.-r

 

Russell Wllkerson, ‘90,
Baltimore, Md. — “No, I’m tired
of people being martyrs in this
day and age and ruining institu-
tions for their own glory.”

 

Meredith Atwell, ‘90i Houston
Tex. - “Where do I sign up?’

TALKBACK

 

Do you think the Justice Department should be able
to force VMI into admitt

Photos by Erik Bertlesen

 

S.C. —

them.”

Missy Eppes, ‘93, Greenville,
“Though I know few
women who would want to attend
VMI, I feel that it should be an
option of education left open to

  

stitution.’ ’

Susan Swayze, ‘90, Santa Rosa,
Callf. Right now, women can't
even walk in the barracks. It
would totally undermine the in-

ing women?

  

 

Dale Wyatt, ‘92, Radford, Va. -
- “No, deﬁnitely not.”

Paul Galanldes, ‘90, Norfolk,
Va. — “No, because I think it
adds to the diversity of the state's
education.”

 

  

Nl:W5

Comments from the Big Three candidates

Junior, New Orleans, La.

I have been on the Executive
Committee for three years. I
believe strongly in our Honor
System However I have heard
student opinions concerning White
Book procedures and would call
for a White Book Revisions Com-
mittee right now, although it is
out of the regular four-year cycle.

Despite the deﬁcit the EC in-
herited from last year, the EC
was able to fully fund the widest
array of student groups and activi-
ties to the benefit of the student »

PRESIDENT

Willard Dumas

 

body.

Junior, Bovl/ling Green, Ky.

Listed below are a few of the
reasons that effected my decision
to run for President of the Execu-
tive Committee.

I would like to see the Execu-
tive Committee take a more active
role in promoting student aware-
ness in controversial areas such as
the CRC.

Secondly, I disagree with the
practice of appointing members of
the student body for positions for
which they did not apply. Specif-

ically, last semester the EC re-

First-Year Law,

We have made your student-appointed leaders accountable for your
student dollars (SAB). Because of that siuration the EC was forced to
take action which resulted in a raise of the Student Activities Fee.

I don’t represent any special interest group on campus, but I try to
represent the broadest possible spectrum of interest among the student
body, when I carry out my duties and responsibilities.

Tom Hatcher

 

ceived resignations from the Fancy Dress Chairman, Vice Chairman and
Auditor, all of whom applied for different positions than they received.
Finally, I believe I can lessen the possibility of an adversarial relation-
ship between members of the student body and the Executive Committee.
By recognizing only violations of the student body’s trust as honor viola-
tions, fears of an overzealous Executive Committee will be put to rest.

Robert Sau nook

When Robert E. Lee estab-
lished the Honor Code, he created
with it_the understanding that the
students of Washington & Lee
would work together to create a
society of honor and trust. With
that goal in mind, the Executive
Committee was formed to unite
the student effort and ensure that
President Lee's desire was main-
tained. The Executive Committee
was not formed to work against
the students or function apart

bring the students together in a team effort
Lee's vision of a society of honor and trust.

Junior, Harrisonburg, Pa.

The Washington and Lee
Honor System is the best of its
kind. It can be better. We need
to return to a community of trust.
That means trials only when cases
are clear cut and with intent.
That means an Honor System that
works for you, with an EC that
backs you up if your honor is
questioned. That means a budget"
policy that reﬂects your interests,
not someone else’s sense of right
and wrong.

You deserve an effective EC.

from the students, rather, it should - ‘>

    

that will ensure President

In an effort to unite the student body again, I propose to increase the

faculty's awareness of the role they play in the honor code, to ensure that

' all proceedings are kept conﬁdential, and most important, to help the stu-
. dents feel that the EC is in touch with their needs.

Tom Spurgeon

 

willing to fight for your rights.

I don’t lmow if I can make all those

changes, but I'll certainly Hy. I hope you’ll consider‘ me.
In reference to my photo, if elected I also promise to shave more often
and dress better.

The Ring-tum Phl, February 8, 1990

VICE PRESIDENT
Mark Cobb

Second-Year Law, DeFuniak Springs, Fl.

Having served two years on
the Executive Committee, I am
fully aware of the responsibilities
of the vice-president and believe
I am the most qualiﬁed candidate.

In addition to the standard EC
duties, the vice president super-
vises the allocation of the student
body funds; he also advises the
accused during honor proceedings.

During my two temts, I have
helped distribute over $300,000.
The addition of the money from
the increased activitv fee calls for

an experienced leader. '

As advisor to the accused, the vicepresident plays a vital role in
maintaining the integrity of the honor system. With my experience, I
will fairly administer the goals of the system with the rights of the
accused.

The EC represents the voice of the students; I wish to grant more stu-
dents a greater responsibility.

I support positive change, and encourage everyone to vote. Hopefully,
that vote will be for Mark Cobb.

John Fialcowitz

Junior, Garden City, N.Y.

The Vice President shoulders
two distinct roles. He or she
serves as the Student Body’s
financial administrator. Having
represented my class for two
years on the Executive Commit-
tee, I have cooperated with past
Vice‘-Presidents in constructing
equitable budgets that reﬂect
student needs and concerns. I
have stood for conservative allo-
cations and structural improve-
ments in the Student Activities
Board during this lean fiscal year. .
As Chairman and Co—Founder of Live Drive, I worked with other
students to create the program in 1988. Since then, Live Drive has
developed into an organization consisting of 108 members and has car-
ried over 3,000 passengers. The Vice President also serves as Techni-
cal Adviser to the accused during honor proceedings. Again, through my
two years experience I have developed a detailed working knowledge of
the White Book and its procedural guidelines.

Rays Welder

Junior, Beeville, Tex.

I'm Ray Welder, candidate for
Vice President of the Executive
Committee. I must confess that
this is the first time I have ever
been interested in an EC position.
The reason I am running is that
too often, it seems, the Executive
Committee is too far removed
from the students. I’ share the
concerns of the undergraduate and
law students that the current EC
may not reﬂect the fundamental
sentiments of the student body.

A spirit of trust should per- ,
va'de the workings of the EC and its dealings with students. Student.
representatives are students just like everyone else — not quasi-administra-
tors. The Executive Committee should be receptive to the needs of the
student body as a whole. If elected, I will strive to make the EC as
open and accountable as possible. If you believe as I do, that it's time
for a change, then vote Ray Welder for Vice President.

   

 

 

 

‘K

9

     
  

SECRETARY

Jeff Kelsey

First-Year Law,‘ Collierville, Tenn. *

I have lived and worked under
the Honor System during the last
four years as a W&L undergradu-
ate, and I appreciate the prestige
and the privileges which that
system brings to our comrnu.nity.
Ours is truly a unique experience,
even among schools with honor
systems. In order to retain this
unique lifestyle, I believe we need
strong leaders on the EC who
will protect the Honor System,
but who will listen to construc-
tive criticism and tr'y to improve . ‘ r
the overall effectiveness of the EC. I have proven my leadership abilities
over the last four years as a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, president I »
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, vice-president of the Inter-Fraternity Council and
president of Kathekon. Also, I think I cart be a uniting factor betweax 5
the law students and the undergraduates because I understand the
correct of both sides.

Clayton Kennington

Sophomore, Dallas, Tex.

~. .5

I have the ability to do a fine
job. Currently, I am serving my
second year on the Executive
Committee as Sophomore Repre-
sentative. In this time, I have
partaken in a variety of occur-
rences. I can draw on this pan
experience when called upon to
make decisions about the Student‘
Body budget, committee appoint-I
ments, and Honor matters. Fur-
thermore, I am extremely orga-
nized and never have problems
with getting tasks done on time. ‘ ,. ’
I would use my experience and abilities to see to it that the Executive 
Committee continues to operate smoothly.

Caroline Wight

Sophomore, Thomasville, Ga.

Having served on the Execu-
tive Committee as Sophomore
Representative, I have a realistic
view of the importance of this
body. I know the time and effort
involved, and I'm willing to make
the commitment. I care about
W&L, its values and its people.
This intense love of W&L is
what has made my job so reward-
ing and so difficult. Even with
the compassion and empathy I
feel for other students, I trust my
judgment and integrity to see that
trust and honor are upheld.
I'm asking you to elect me not only because I believe in W&L, but
because I am qualified. I've had the beneﬁt of on-hand experience, and
I am also an English major, so I think I would be best suited for the
Secretary position.
I care about W&L. I care about all students’ opinions, and I would
greatly appreciate your support on Monday. 4"

"I

~.‘

 

Vote on Mondaynr

EC explains its election procedures

“I attempted to get across to the
candidates that it only makes them
look bad when they talk about other

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

  

 
 
  
     

(703) 463-2833

WM. L. HESS, Jr.
Owner

 

Spend Valentine ’s Day at
R. L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal
A large selection of Gift Items

121 S. MAIN ST.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

SHENANDOAI-I INDUSTRIAL SERVICES. INC.

%é’$>

Is now oﬁering domestic housekeeping services.

And yes “we do windows. ”

For free estimate call

463-0140

102 Spotswood Drive, Lexington, Virginia 24450

  

   
   
   

[candidates] in a poor fashion,” he
said.

EC President Willard Dumas will
seek a second term against chall-
engers Thompson Hatcher, Robert
Saunooke and Thomas Spurgeon.

Mark Cobb, John Fialcowitz and
Raymond Welder will contend for
vice president, while Jeffery Kelsey,
Clayton Kennington and Caroline
Wight are in the race for secretary.

Yesterday's candidates’ forum in
Lee Chapel will be televised by
Cable Charmel Nine tomorrow at 7:30

Campaigning for the Executive
Committee “Big Three” - president,
vice president and secretary —
kicked off officially after the can-
didates’ meeting Monday night.

Voting Regulations Board Chair-
man Wesley Goings distributed copies
of VRB campaign and election rules
to the candidates, highlighting recent
additions such as the 8.5 by 11-inch
size limit to posters.

In addition to the rules, Goings
warned against negative campaigning.

DDDCIDDDDDUDDDCIEJD
Monarch Pet ,
q  250-1000 Summer Camp Positions

Available.
Staff Referral Services provides a
network of camps, now hiring,

SnakeS:B'-Jnniesy form the "Keys" to Wisc.-Minn.

Killer Fish and One application reaches at: calrnps
via master computer. pp rea-
Tarantul_aS tions at the Career Development
1  S. Mal" St. and Placement Office.
CICIDCIQQDDCJDDDDDDD

Super-X Drugs

    
   

At Super-X Your Prescription
Needs Are Our Most Important Business.

College Shopping Square 463-7126

 

¢ODK Circle and outside the Moot

  

   
  

  
 
  

I.

p.m., and Saturday and Sunday at 7

p.m., according to Cable Channel
Nine’s Michael Applebaurn.

Students of all classes may vote

in the election scheduled from 8 a.m.

to 4 p.m. on Monday. Goings said

voting boxes will be placed in the

Baker-Davis-Gilliarn Quad, at the

p.rn.

Trustees last weekend asked hihr
“lots of questions about the Hongr
System.

“I informed them of the situatibn
with the Law School,” said Dum ,
referring to sentiments that the La
School should be governed under "
own honor system.

He also said he thanked trust
Patricia Leggett and trustee emeri
Harold Leggett, Jr. for their ins A»
mental role in the acquisition of
new Live Drive van this year.

Courtroom in the Law School.

If no candidate receives a major-
ity of the votes for a particular of-
ﬁce, a rim-off between the two can-
didates receiving the highest number
of votes for that office will occur.
If necessary, nm-off elections will be
held on Feb. 15 from 8 a.m. to 4

Prescriptions 0 Cosmetics °Pf’.'ﬁ4'"e-9
Charge Accounts 0 Free Delivery

R.E. Lee Memorial Church
Sunday Services
8:30 - Holy Eucharist - Rite I
9:20 - Church School
10:30 - Holy Eucharist - Rite II
5:00 - Holy Eucharist - Rite II
6:00 - Undergraduate Group Bible Study
Topic: The Moral Teachings of Paul -
Relationships between Women &
Men, Marriage, and Sexuality

.. IllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllll“Hill
KW

 
  
 

ulllllllllllll‘
*|llllIIIlllllllIllllllIlllIIll|l|||l|lll|||lll||||I||||ll'

 

 

  
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
   

 

In other business, EC President ‘
Willard Dumas said the Board of ‘

        
      
           
     
  
       
   
   
 
   
    
   
      
   
     

ii
I

4
W

’ Q.

In

A015.-

 

By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

Fourteen women have established
a Delta Gamma Interest Group in
order to proceed with the addition of
Delta Gamma Women's Fraternity at
Washington and Lee University.

The interest group, which held its
first meeting Monday night, has peti-
tioned Panhellenic for an observation
seat on the council. However, Pan-
hellenic Council carmot officially
accept the Delta Gamma Interest
Group [DGIG] until it receives a
petition including each mernber’s

name. The Council also needs the
approval of Delta Garrirna’s National
Council.

The interest group has been in
touch with some of DG’s national
representatives and is receiving help
from local alumnae. Elizabeth Besen-
felder, DGIG's national contact repre-
sentative, has been in touch with a
colonization representative as well as
DG’s national expansion director.

The purpose stated by the interest
group is “to have enough women
interested in Delta Gamma to
colonize in the fall, to invite inter—
ested women to learn about DG and
the Greek system and to get more

PEPPERS

from page 2

4..»~d_:&Q'4¢§

dishonorable. And I signed a card
during my freshman year that pledged
my intentions to live in our
community of honor. But when I see
students permanently expelled from
this school for shoplifting while other
students are not brought before the
EC for dishonorable conduct (are
there any who will not define date-
rape as dishonorable?), my faith in
the single-sanction begins to waver.
I call on the EC to address the
questions that Mr. Patterson raised.
The EC has the “primary
responsibility for enforcing” the

Honor System, yet the EC cannot try
cases unless students approach EC
members with potential honor
violations. Nor can the EC alter the
definition of honor without the
support of the “student generation.”
Changes will not take place if
students are reluctant to express their
opinions.

If you are troubled with the issues
I have raised, then talk with a
member of the EC and let him know
-that some students are troubled by
our community of honor.

The Ring-tum Phl, February 8, 1990

14 women rally for DG

information about Delta Gamma for
those women deﬁnitely interested in
rush.”

According to Besenfelder, Delta
Gamma national representatives have
said that 32 women must commit to
rush in the fall before they will re-
turn to the university.

The main activity of the DGIG at
present is to get the word out that
DG is still on carripus and that DGIG
exists, said Beserifelder.

According to Besenfelder, mem-
bers of the Delta Gamma Interest
Group will go through a form of
“installation or ‘rush’ process through
which a distinction will be made
between those members who are
committed to rush next fall and those
women who are unsure.”

The first ceremony will be held
on Feb. 28 for those women com-
mitted to rush Delta Gamma in the
fall. *

Since the installation will not be
sponsored by Delta Gamma, an infor-
mal ceremony will be held for wom-
en who say they will definitely rush
in the fall.

Parihellenic President Nancy Mit-
chell said “There is nothing we
would like more than their success.”
She said, however, that Parihellenic
cannot recognize the group until they
ofﬁcially request such recognition.

DGIG members discussed social
activities as well as a philanthropic
project which may begin as soon as
they are recognized by Panhelleriic.

Help wanted

Student volunteers are needed
to assist teachers in the classroom
two hours per week at Waddell
Elementary School in Lexington.
Please contact Kathleen Vanee at
463-1147.

D.C. jobs

Career Connections: D.C. will
be held in the Dirksen Senate
Building on Tuesday, Feb. 20
from 6-8 p.m. Alumni interested
in helping students find jobs in
the D.C. area will be present.
Students should plan to be at the
reception Tuesday evening and
spend Wednesday, possibly Thurs-
day, in the city for follow-up and
interviews.

Students interested in partici-
pating in D.C. Connections who
have not registered yet need to
complete a registration form at
the CDP office.

To review employment oppor-
tunity descriptions by alumni,
consult the red binder in the CDP
office. To have resumes furnished
to appropriate alumni, pencil the
name of your preferred organiza-
tions on the back of your resumes
and drop them in the appropriate
ﬁles in the CDP office by 4 p.m.
tomorrow. These will be mailed
to alurrmi in advance.

Canoeing

The Outing Club will sponsor
canoeing on weekends. If you
want to use an Outing Club
canoe, you must take part in this
instruction. For more details call
Mark Lubkowitz at 463-7590.

Study abroad

A representative of Advanced
Studies in England, based in the
city of Bath and now affiliated
with University College, Oxford,
will be available next week to
talk to students interested in
studying in England. Meet in
Baker 106 at 3 p.m. on Monday,
Feb. 12.

If you are interested in study-

ing, on location, the Europe that
is presently moving closer to
economic unity, a representative
of European Studies in London
would like to meet with you and
discuss the study opportunities
which her program provides. Meet
in Baker 106 at 3 p.m. on Wed-
nesday, Feb. 14.

The Virginia Program at Ox-
ford is a six week course, June
25 through Aug. 3, taught in
Oxford by British faculty. W&L
is one of six sponsoring schools
that nominate students for this
program. There is some financial
aid available. For more informa-
tion and applications contact Prof.
Pamela Simpson at the Art ,
Department in DuPont Hall. The
application deadline is Mar. 1.

Biking

The competitive cycling season
begins with a road race on Sun-
day, Mar. 4 in Dale City, Vir-
ginia, and continues each weekend
through March in the same loca-
tion. The course is 42 miles and
ﬂat. Those interested in riding or
just watching should contact Jason
Daywitt at 464-4665 or Ken
Woodrow at 261-1580.

If you would like to use the
Outing Club’s bike maintenance
equipment, call Jason Daywitt at
464-4665 or John Buchanan.
Regular shop hours will begin
when the warm weather returns.

Environment

The environmental section of
the Outing Club has placed boxes
for recycling newspapers under
the Graham—Lees archway and
under the archway leading to the
dining hall. Please place only
newspapers in these boxes; com-
puter paper can be put in the
recycling boxes in each of the
computer labs. If you would like
to become involved in these ef-
forts, please call Tim Clark at
464-4448.

There will be a meeting of the
environmental section of the Out-
ing Club on Monday, Feb. 12 at
5:30 p.ni. in room 109 of the
University Center.

GENERAL NOTES

Waves dude!

The Outing Club will be
taking a trip to Cape Hatteras,
N.C. over February break in
search of waves. Any surfers,
windsurfers, or other people who
would like to go need to contact
Tim Clark at 464-4448 as soon as
possible.

Pictures

Confetti’s 1989 picture will be
in the Arlington Women's Center
Feb. 8 through Feb. 12. Go by
and order them anytime.

Filmfest

At 8 p.m. on Feb. 9 and 10 in
Lewis Hall Classroom A, the
Film Society plans to show Sex,
Lies, and Videotapes. Winner of
the grand prize at the Cannes
Film Festival, this film is writer-
director Steven Soderburgh’s bril-
liant first film, an intimate portrait
of four intriguing characters
whose lives are based on decep-
tion and denial. The complex
relationship between an unhappy
wife, her philandering husband,
and her seductive sister is laid
bare when a videotaping friend
arrives for a visit.

Spring seminar

The Administration Depart-
ment will be offering a 3 credit
hour course on Family Business
Management during the Spring
1990 term. Given the backgrounds
and aspirations of many W&L
students, this course will provide
a unique opportunity for examin-
ing pertinent issues in managing a
faniily-owned business.

The course will be tearn—
taught using an interdisciplinary
approach from areas such as
management, economics, law, and
psychology. A research project
involving an actual family busi-
ness will be assigned to student
teams. The class is open to
seniors and juniors. Permission of
the instructor is required. Please
see Dr. Pirkle for details (126 C
School, X8719).

  
    

Hi-SpeedCopying 0 Desktop Publishing 0 FAX 0 Design Graphics

Rustle your resume’ at

Mountain Copy-grapﬁies

‘----'

  

463 - 1712 ' 125 W. Nelson, Lexington 0 FAX :463 - 6918

   
    
       
   
      
     

. Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

  

  

703-463-3478

LEE H!

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

VARNER

 

PHI DELT

from page 1

with the restriction on parties and
raised its ranking among fraternities
from fifteenth in the fall term last
year to fourteenth this fall term.
“The chapter also implemented
two ongoing community service proj-
ects to beneﬁt the community, both
of which were started this year and
will continue for years to come,"
Holland said, referring to Phi Delt’s
involvement in the Adopt a Highway
and Project Threshold programs.
Holland said the house has been
repaired completely and none of the
current members were involved in the
destruction of the house last spring.
Phi Delt Chapter Advisor and Pro-
fessor of Administration Joseph Gold-

sten, writing on behalf of the House
Corporation, submitted a letter Jan.
30 to Atkins that also requested the
temiination of the probation.

“The members clearly understood
that the future of the Phi Delta Theta
chapter at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity was in jeopardy, and have
responded in a positive, gentlemanly
manner,” Goldsten said.

In addition, Goldsteri said, “the
most signiﬁcant and pervasive change
that is associated with the probation-
ary period is a visible change in
attitudes. There is a true sense of
community and brotherhood. Mem-
bers do not tolerate the anti-social
behavior of a few. During the proba-

tionary period, abuse of property has
virtually been non-existent."

Phi Delt will continue to imple-
ment some of the stipulations of the
probation including continuation of
community service projects, Holland
said.

House mother Mata McGuire, who
has been a “primary force in posi-
tively altering attitudes and behav-
ior,” will remain at Phi Delt, Gold-
sten said.

Although Phi Delt has not official-
ly applied for the Fraternity Renais-
sance program, it will probably un-
dergo reconstruction beginning June 1
with the rest of the “Red Square"
fraternities, Atkins said.

MSA celebrates black history

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

The Minority Student Association
kicked-off its celebration of Black
Awareness Month last Thursday with
the first of a series of radio broad-
casts profiling major figures in black
history.

WLUR will broadcast these “Pro-
ﬁles in Black History” every class
day during February. They will be
read by freshman Curtis Joseph dir-
ectly following the news at noon.
Each proﬁle will consist of a srriall
biography of signiﬁcant ﬁgures in

black history ranging from civil rights
workers to scientists.

The radio spots are only one of
the planned festivities. On Feb. 14 at
4:30 p.m., there will be a community
reception at the Chavis House. At
that time, W&L students, as well as
the community, will have the chance
to talk one-on-one with black leaders
of Lexington and the University
body.
The Chavis House library will be
rededicated during the reception in
honor of a Black scholar. Officials
have said that educational pioneer
Carter G. Woodson is being strongly
considered for this honor.

Other scheduled events include

music days at Evans Dining Hall.
From Feb. 26-28, the dining hall will
air music by nationally known black
artists encompassing many different
music sectors.

Finally, black educational consul-
tant and author Jwanza Kunjufu will
lecture at Lee Chapel on Feb. 28.
Kunjufu will speak on the educational
deﬁciencies of black youth within the
public school system.

According to MSA president
James Rambeau, all of these activities
are “to provide the campus at large,

as well as the Lexington community, '

with exposure to a broader range of
"black culture and history."

W&L and VMI will sing together

Z
By Todd Peppers
Stan‘ Reporter

Tomorrow night the Washington
and Lee Choral Groups will combine
talents with Virginia Military Insti-
tute’s Glee Club for the first time in
over sixteen years.

The three groups will be joined
by the Mary Baldwin College Chorus
in Lee Chapel at 8:00 p.m. The Cho-
ral Festival is open to the public.

“This event is special for two
reasons,” said Glee Club Director
and Music Division Head Gordon
Spice. “It is the first time in my

Shops set

to open
this Spring

By Macon Miles
Staff Reporter

K—Mart, Food Lion and Revco,
the three major tenants of the new
Stonewall Square shopping center
located on U.S. 60 east of Lexington,
are scheduled to open in the spring.

K-Mart, which has moved into its
new 86,000 square foot store, is
already preparing for its grand open-
ing on March 25. It will open its
doors, however, on March 22.

This K-Mart is one of the pilot
stores for K-Mart Corporation's new
image of the 90s which it has

adopted in order to remain competi-«

tive in the discount store market.

According to Charles Barger, Jr.,
one of the developers of the shopping
center, First American Bank has
signed a lease to open an office at
the new strip mall.

The bank will be located at the
entrance to the parking lot near the
new Hardee’s, which is tentaviley
scheduled to begin construction by’
March 1.

Hardee’s and First American Bank
will be constructed where Bill's Tune
Up now stands. The developers have
made arrangements to rebuild Bill's
Tune Up further east U.S. 60 on the
other side of the road. A new trafﬁc
light will also be installed at the
shopping center’s entrance.

Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

DEAVERS ALLEY
BUSINESS SERVICES
Our Typing

.‘ '5 _
Wor°dPerfect"

    

7 8:00 AM. - 5:00 PM.
Evenings and Weekends by Appointment
203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9455

463-2742

 

WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION
OR BIG SCREEN TV PLUS
RAISE UP TO $1,400 IN JUST
10 DAYS!

Objective: Fundraiser
Commitment: Minimal
Money: Raise $1,400
Cost: Zero lnvestement

Campus organizations, clubs, frats,
sororities call OCMC at l(800)
932-0528 / l(800) 950-8472 ext.
10

tenure that any Washington and Lee
group has sung with the VMI Glee
Club. And this is a good opportunity
for the three schools to showcase
their all—male or all-female singing
ensembles."

The Choral Festival is sponsored
jointly by W&L and VMI. It will
bring together four well-kriown direc-
tors in the corrirnunity: Captain Jolm
Hickox, director of the VMI Glee
Club; Professor Robert Allen, director
of the Mary Baldwin College Chorus;
Professor Thomas Forrest, director of
W&L’s Women's Chorus; and Spice.

The Glee Club is in one of its
busiest semesters in the past several

PBK

from page 1

years. The Choral Festival is one of
the men's ﬁve concerts during Winter
and Spring Terms.

In March the group will culmi-
nate its musical season with a three-
day trip to Massachusetts for a joint
concert with the wornen’s chorus of
Mt. Holyoke College. The annual
Glee Club Alumni Concert will be
held May 12.

W&L’s Worrien’s Chorus will
participate in three concerts this se-
mester. In addition to their perform-
ance in the Choral Festival, they will
sing at the Winter Choral Concert on
March 13 and at the First Baptist
Church in Staunton.

SENIORS: Nancy Haynes
Baughan, Amy Susan Bidwell,
George Wesley Boyd, Leigh Ann
Brown, Reid Tarlton Campbell, Dedra
Lynn Connor, Kara Lynn Cunnin-
gham, Alan John Heinrich, Nancy
Louis Hickarn, James Burges Lake,
Carter King Laughlin II and Stephen
Scott Mattingly.

Also Kathleen Anne Morrison,
Todd C. Peppers, Katherine Lorraine
Richardson, Matthew Clinton Sackett,
Kelly Dawn Shiﬂett, Courtney Sirn—
moris, Dana Dee Stiles, Frederick
Johnson Turpin, Tina Vandersteel and
Christopher Hepp Wood.

New members are elected by Phi
Beta Kappa members of the faculty,
staff and Law School on the basis of
Grade Point Average (GPA) and
program of study, said Goehring.

The national policy allowing only
the top 15 per cent of the senior
class is often reduced at W&L, al-
lowing fewer than the top 10 per
cent. Juniors are elected for Phi Beta
Kappa at W&L only if they have a
GPA of 3.9 or higher, said Goehr-
mg.
"There is not any assurance that
anybody over a speciﬁc GPA will get
elected," said Goehring. "Their pro-
gram of study must be liberal arts
oriented."

Two members of the Class of
1989 -— Tracy A. Williarns and
Kevin L. Yeager — were elected be-
cause they were eligible at graduation
but not at the time of election last
year.

Ward Wright Briggs, Jr., Class of

1967, will be the guest speaker at the
convocation and will be initiated as
an honorary member. He is a Pro-
fessor of Classics at the University of
South Carolina.

"Phi Beta Kappa is mainly in-‘
tended to honor and promote scholar-
ship; it doesn’t do things in a social
sense," said Goehring.

Founded at the College of Wil-
liam and Mary in 1776, Phi Beta
Kappa’s name is derived from a
Greek phrase meaning "philosophy -
- the guide of life."

It was founded as a secret social
and literary fraternity, but the secret
aspects were dropped in the early
l800’s when it became an honorary

-society based on scholarship.

There are currently about 240
chapters at liberal arts and humanities
oriented colleges and universities all
over the country, said Goehring. Phi
Beta Kappa publishes the Key Repor-
ter and American Scholar.

"Phi Beta Kappa was founded as
a socially active community for
people who were rather radical, for
an inter-play of intellectual tempera-
ments and minds," Goehring said.

The Gamma of Virginia Chapter
was founded at W&L in 1911 and
currently has about 45 faculty and
staff members, nine Law School
members and seven under-graduate
members, said Goehring.

Convocation will be on March 15,
during which the Phi Beta Kappa
Sophomore Award will be given to
the sophomore with the highest GPA.

In this space on February 8, 1990, Nothing of any particular

. interest took place

 

ALVIN -DENNIS, INC.

102 W. Washington St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Gifts For Valentine ’s Day

Valentine Underwear and Ties
Winter Sale Still in Progress 20-50% Off

Now Stockin g Red Wing Boots
Also Taking Tuxedo Orders for Fancy Dress

GQCGGCCCGCQCGCCCCCCCC

MASTERCARD

SINCE 1963

 

 

By Jay Plotltin
Sports Editor

For the past month, the Washing-
ton and Lee basketball team has
struggled, miserably. ‘

For a while last week, it looked
like the funk the Generals had been
in throughout January was over. For
a while.

On Thursday night at Emory and
Henry, W&L turned in one of its
better halves of basketball in over a
month, but it wasn't enough as the
Wasps fought off the Generals to win
80-77.

E&H looked as if it would make
short work of the Generals. The
Wasps opened up a 31-18 lead mid-

 way through the first half. But the
 Generals hung tough. 'lhey fought
 back to 31-25 but fell behind again

38-25 minutes later.

The Generals closed the first half
with a 7-2 run to bring the game
back to 40-32. Junior captain Mike
Holton led W&L with 10 first-half
points.

Said Holton of the three-hour ride

 to Emory before the game, “I pretty
I, much said to myself, ‘enough is
37.: enough.’ If someone is going to do
 anything to get the team out of the
 doldrurris we've been in, it needs to

be me."
Holton continued his onslaught in

 the second half, and got help from
‘. ‘ his mates. E&H led 44-35 with 17:15
. ‘ to go when W&L went on its first
"' run of the second half. This 11111 gave
 the Generals their first lead since 2-

V, 0. Holton capped a 15-5 run with a
I three-point goal to give W&L a 50-
W 49 lead with 12:04 to play.

Making up the other half of the

 W&L backcourt during the run was
-. junior guard Andrew Manson, who

had a career high six points in his 11
minutes of handling the point guard
responsibilities.

E&H wasted little time in regain-
ing the lead. Luke Sampson followed
Holton’s three pointer with one of his
own to give the Wasps a 52-50 lead,
and Craig McLaughlin's lay up gave
E&H a 65-56 lead.

Again W&L seemed on the ropes,
but again they fought back, playing
like the W&L teams fans saw

1-§_,PORTS

Junior captain Mike Holton looks to

the two teams met in Emory,

The Ring-tum Phl, February 8, 1990

pass in W&L’s first game against Emory and Henry in Lexington. When

Holton scored a career high 26 points in the Generals 80-77 loss. Holton is

averaging 13.0 points per game, second on the team this season. W&L file photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

throughout last season. When junior
forward Scott Alrutz picked up a
loose ball in front of the pack and
laid it in, W&L completed a 13-0 run
to take a 69-65 lead with 5:14 to
play.

Emory and Henry withstood the
run, and Leon Hill tied the game at
73 and the teams traded baskets until
E&H led 77-75. Junior guard Jim
Casey’s penetration and jumper tied
the game at 77 with 54 seconds to
play and made it anybody’s game to

‘Gilbert triple jumps way to

national championship meet

 

By Debbie Grove
Staff Reporter

Junior Carl Gilbert was as sur-

‘- prised as everyone else about qualify-
’ ing for the Division 111 national in-
. door championships in the triple jump
“ last Saturday at VMI’s Winter Re-

lays.

Gilbert, who placed third, was the
only Division III athlete to place in
any event at the meet. “After the
jump, I came out of the pit and fig-
ured I had jumped around 46 feet,”
Gilbert said. “When the armouncer
said 46 [feet]-11 [inches], I couldn't
believe it. It’s a feeling you can't
descri .”

Gilbert’: jump equaled the Divi-
sion III national standard. The nation-
al championship meet will be held at
Smith College in Northampton, Mass.
on March 9-10.

The junior from Bassett, Va. set
the school record in the triple jump
last spring, with a jump of 47-10.

Gilbert is also a member of the
41X)-meter relay team, which has the
best time in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference this season.

Also faring well for the Generals
was senior sprinter Wes Boyd. Boyd
turned in a personal best 6.4 seconds
in the 55-meter sprint.

Last season, Gilbert qualiﬁed for
the national championships in the
triple jump in the outdoor season.
Gilbert was also a five-time all-
ODAC perfonner last season

He was also all—ODAC in the
individual 400-meter run. He was
also all-ODAC in the 400-meter relay
both indoors and outdoors. The 400-
meter relay team posted the best time
in the ODAC last year. Gilbert was
also a member of the 16()()—meter
relay team, which won the ODAC
indoor title.

Gilbert set the triple jump school
record of 47-10 in the Hampton
Invitational, the same meet which
qualiﬁed him for the national champi-
onship meet.

The indoor track team will com-
pete this weekend at Va. Tech. Gil-
bert hopes to qualify in the 400-me-
ters also.

win...or lose.

After Casey tied the game, the
Generals forced a turnover with 17
seconds to play, the game still tied at
77. But Holton, who had been the
hero all night, made one fatal mis-
take. He was trapped in the back-
court and tried to loft the ball across
the court to Casey, but Derek Elmore
stole the pass for E&H and fed Hill
underneath the basket.

Holton arrived a split-second late
to draw the charge, and Hill's lay-up

 

Carl Gilbert

 

Rich Paini

Smith extends win streak to 22
as swimmers sink Radford by 54

By John Laney
Stall‘ Reporter

The Washington and Lee men’s
swirmning team overwhelmed Radford
University on Saturday with a 107-
53 victory.

The 54-point margin of victory at
Radford was the largest for the Gen-
erals this season as they improved
their record to 7-5.

“I was real pleased with our
performance once again,” said head
coach Page Remillard. “We are
continuing to improve individually,
and that is helping us win the meets
we are supposed to win.”

W&L simply dominated Satur-
day's rrieet, winning ten of the 11
events and earning second-place
points in four events.

“We were a much better team,”
Remillard said. “Their [Radford’s]
team is very young. This is their first
year in swirnriiing.

“They ran a good meet and their
pool was super. It’s nice to have a
pool of that quality in the area. We
went front the worst pool (we've
seen this season) to the best pool in

one week,” Rernillard added, refer-
ring to the fact that Shepherd Col-
lege’s pool has only four lanes and
no starting blocks.

Sophomore Jay Smith improved
his unbeaten streak to 22 with a vic-
tory in the 100-yard freestyle (48.17).
Smith also bettered the qualifying
standard for the 100-yard backstroke
with his victory in the leadoff leg in
the 400-yard medley relay. Smith
finished his leg with a time of 54.80.

Coming into this season, Smith
had said he set a goal to consistently
swim the 50-yard freestyle in 21
seconds and the 100-yard freestyle in
47 seconds. Although his times have
somewhat slipped from his intended
goals during the last three meets,
Smith is still winning his races.

“It’s hard to be on top every
week," Remillard said. “I think he's
doing fine. He’s a super person, a
super student and a super athlete.”

The Generals’ roster was strength-
ened by the healthy return of junior
Jim Dunleavy, who had rriissed a
week of practice with a bout of the
ﬂu. "

Dunleavy won the 10()O-yard
freestyle event (10:09.44) and finished
second in the 500-yard freestyle
(5210.14).

“He seems to be back on track,”
Remillard said.

Both of W&L’s relay teams swam
to first-place finishes. The 400-yard
medley relay team composed of
Smith, sophomores Stuart Towns,
Doug Brown and Chip Nordhoff
finished in 3:57.54, while the 3:35.55

finish for the 400-yard freestyle med-
ley team (Smitl1, Nordhoff, freshmen
Andrew Pearson and Chris Hagge)
beat Radford's team by nearly 45
seconds.

Finishing out the individual victory
list for W&L were Brown in the 200-
yard and 500-yard freestyles
(1:54.58), (4:53.67), Towns in the
200-yard individual medley (2:O5.09)
and the 200-yard breaststroke
(2:23.51), Nordhoff in the 200-yard
backstroke (2109.07) and Hagge in the
50-yard freestyle (23.31).

The remainder of the Generals’
second-place finishes were collected
by freshman Marco Lotano, who

was good as Holton fouled him with
eight seconds left. The free throw
was good, and the Generals could
only get a desperation three point
shot from Casey, which was off the
mark.

Holton led all scorers with a
career high 26 points on 10-of-14
shooting. Junior center Chris Jacobs
was also in double figures for W&L
with 19.

The 80-77 loss left the Generals
12-8, 7-6 in the conference, but head

coach Verne Carifreld was pleased the
way his team played against the
hottest team in the conference. “We
played very well, well enough to win.
There were so many positive things
that came out of the second half,
maybe these young men can hold on
to that and we can go on from
here."

But the Generals did not hold on
to their second half play against E&H
back in rainy Lexington when they
took on conference foe Virginia Wes-
leyan on Saturday.

The Generals shot themselves into
a hole early and not even a red-hot
Pat Gallavan could shoot the Generals
out of it.

After a brief W&L lead, the Blue
Marlins took a 25-16 lead on a bas-
ket by Trevor Williams with 9:01 to
play in the half.

W&L then ﬂashed to life, sparked
by Casey’s breakaway lay-up and
went on a 12-0 run over the next five
minutes, capped by two free throws
from Manson. Five different players
scored for W&L during the run.

But VWC closed the half with an
8-2 run to lead 33-30, capped by
Daryl Reid's lay up at the buzzer.
The Generals found themselves in a
hole at the break mainly due to their
shooting, just 34 percent for the half,
while VWC connected on a 52 per-
cent clip.

In the second half, VWC pulled
out to a quick nine point lead on two
free throws by Williams with 12:56
to play. The lead then grew to 14
with 5:01 to play, 53-39.

Enter Gallavan. After missing his
first two shots, W&L’s version of the
Microwave set the temperature on
high, and proceeded to hit three con-
secutive three pointers to bring the
Generals within five at 53-48 with
3:21 to play.

After two free throws from Jacobs,
Gallavan struck again from three
point range, cutting the lead to 56-
53, but that would be as close as
W&L would get. VWC put the game
away from the free throw line, mak-
ing 13 of their last 15 over the last
two minutes to ice the 67-59 win,
extending the Generals’ home losing
streak to three.

Gallavan led W&L with 15 points,
all in the last four minutes of the

Struggling Generals look to start over

game on three point goals, and Casey
added 14. On the afternoon, W&L
shot just 29 percent. Holton and
Jacobs, the teams top two scorers,
shot a combined 2-of-21 and totaled
12 points.

So after a month of struggling,
Canfield has decided to start over.
“We’re taking the very positive ap-
proach that the struggle is over.
We're treating things like practice
started yesterday. The season starts
with Mary Washington.”

The Generals have lost five out of
their last six to fall to 12-9, 7-7 on
the season. However, Canfield warns,
“We’re not through yet."

Tonight the Generals will look to
bounce back in their final regular-
season home game against Mary
Washington. Game time is 7:30 in
the Warner Center.

Washington and Lee (77)

Holton 10-14 4-5 26, Casey 1-4 4-5 6,
Jacobs 8-14 3-5 19, Penn 1-] 0-0 2, Hatﬁeld
1-2 4-6 6, Manson 1-1 4-4 6, Melton 2-4 2-2
6, Gallavan 1-3 0-0 2. Alrutz 1-3 0-0 2, With-
erington 0-0 2-2 2. Totals 26-46 23-29 77.
Emory and Henry (80)

Elmore 4-6 1-2 9, Posey 1-2 0-0 2, Mc-
Laughlin 5-8 6-8 16, Warner 2-5 1-2 5, Hill 8-
12 4-5 23, Allen 2-2 0-0 4, Sampson 2-2 0-0
5, Moore 0-1 0-0 0, Witcher 1-3 0-0 2, Kirtlcy
4-8 0-0 8, Perkins 2-5 2-2 6. Totals 31-54 14-
19 80.

Halftime-40-32, E&H. Three point goals-W&L
(2-7) Holton 2; E&H (4-7) Hill 3, Sampson 1.
Total fouls-W&L 21, E&H 28. Fouled out-
Witcher. Rebounds-W&L 19 (Jacobs 7), E&H
35 (McLaughlin 9). Assists-W&L 9 (Holton,
Jacobs, Witherington 2), E&H 12 (Hill 5). A-
1000.

Vlrglnla Wesleyan (67)

English 3-5 0-0 6, Andrews 4-12 4-6 13,
Reid 2-3 3-4 7, Sims 7-17 2-2 16, Williams 1-
5 11-13 13, Green 0-1 9-11 9, Rabalais 00 0
0 0, Rawls 1-2 1-2 3, Marchesani 0-0 0-0 0.
Totals 18-45 30-38 67.

Washington and Lee (59)

Holton 0-7 5-6 5, Casey 4-6 4-6 14, Jacobs
2-14 3-4 7, Hatﬁeld 2-4 0-1 4, Penn 1-2 0-0 2,
Gallavan 5-11 0-0 15, Manson 0-2 2-2 2,
Melton 1-5 0-0 2, Alrutz 0-3 0-0 0, Watkins
1-6 2-2 4, Witherington 2-2 0-0 4. Totals 18-
61 16-20 59.

Halftime- 33-30, VWC. Three point goals-
VWC (1-2) Andrews 1; W&L (7-25) Gallavan
5, Casey 2. Total fouls-VWC 19, W&L 29.
Technical foul-W&L coach Canfield. Rebounds-
VWC 47 (Andrews 10), W&L 31 (Jacobs 10).
Assists-VWC 10 (Green, Andrews 3), W&L 9
(Holton 3). A-263.

Grapplers split at Gallaudet

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team, led by freshman Rich Paini’s
two pins, picked up a decisive victory
over the host team after dropping an
initial decision to Washington and
Jefferson in last weekend’s Gallaudet
Triangular.

The Generals soundly defeated
Gallaudet, 38-16, after losing to a
tough W&J club, 28-15. Head coach
Gary Franke expressed surprise at the
ease of his club’s win over Gallaudet.
Commenting on the W&J match, he
said, “We just didn't come out with
enough individual performances to
win.” ’

The Generals jumped all over
Gallaudet from the beginning of the
match. Pairii recorded his fall with
just five seconds to go in the rriatch,
and junior co-captain Larry Pilkey,
grappling at 126-pounds, needed just
2:37 to pin his opponent.

Freshman Doug Lamb and senior
co-captain Lee Garlove each won by
forfeit, at 134 and 142 respectively.
After four quick matches the Generals
held a commanding 24-0 lead.

Ryland Scott, another freshman,

 

Jay Smith...

extends win streak to 22

swam the 1000-yard freestyle in
10:29.11, Pearson in the 200-yard
freestyle (1:57.93) and Hagge in the
100-yard freestyle (51.04).

“Everybody had a good meet. The
optimism is there and rightfully so,”
said Rernillard.

The final dual meet of the season
for the men is at Mary Washington
on Saturday. The Generals have
never lost to the Eagles.

pinned his 158-pound opponent in
3:48. Freshman 167-pounder Jamie
Selway lost, and Franke was
prompted into some tactical moves to
secure W&L’s 30-12 lead. Franke
bumped sophomore Peer Soderberg
up two weight classes to 190 pounds.

In Soderberg's place at 177-
pounds, Franke sent junior Bill Avery
onto the mats. If Avery could avoid
being pirmed, the Generals would win
the match. The plan worked as Avery
only lost by decision and secured the
team victory for the Generals. It was
Avery’s first action of the season.

After spending the fall in China,
Avery rejoined the team after Christ-
mas and has been working out with
the team to regain his shape since
then. Franke did not feel he was
ready until this past weekend and has
held off using him.

The Generals won the final two
bouts to put some icing on the cake.
Soderberg did not seem to mind the
shift in weight classes, winning by
technical fall and Conkling sealed the
victory with an 8-7 heavyweight win,
only his second decision of the year.

The Generals did not fare as well
in the W&J match although some
bright spots did shine. Pairii recorded

another pin in this match, 5:26 into
the 118 match. Garlove soundly de-
feated his opponent 10-2 while Scott
squeezed out a 2-2 draw. Soderberg
registered a win, 4-0, at his more
comfortable 167-pound weight class.

Overall, Franke was pleased. “It
was a great team effort on our part
in both matches. We are where we
want to be conditioning-wise and we
are looking forward toward this
weekend’s Virginia College Division *
Championships.”

Next weekend’s championships at
Virginia State University in Peters-
burg include all Division H and III
Virginia schools. Norfolk State,
Newport News Apprentice, Longwood
College and Washington and Lee will
all compete along with Virginia State
for the title.

Franke believes that there are
strong wrestlers on every squad but
Virginia State and Longwood seem to
be the strongest along with Norfolk
State.

On February 14, Longwood Col-
lege will come to town for a dual
meet. “Longwood is tough and they
match up well against us, but I ex-
pect us to do well,” said Franke. The
match is slated for a 7:30 start.

Herring doubles, Sauers
breaks records in win  

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee wornen’s
swimming team recorded its second
win in its last three outings against
non-Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence opponents with a 114-87 win
over state rival Radford last Saturday.

Sophomore Jodi Herring-scored
two individual wins, and freshman
Stephanie Sauers set two school re-
cords as the Generals rolled over
Radford.

Herring set season—best times in
the 1,000- and 500-yard freestyle
events, winning with times of
11:19.79 and 5:33.11 respectively.
Sauers broke records in the 50- and
100—freestyle races, breaking records
set last year by Herring. Sauers’
times were 25.29 and 56.25 seconds
respectively.

Said head coach Page Reniillard,
“Stephanie is really coming on
strong. She is swirmning her lifetime
best times and has completely ad-
justed to our intensity level. Jodi
continues to lower her times.”

Junior Sharon Coleman, along
with Sauers, came within a fraction

of a second, ﬁve-one hundredths to
be exact, of qualifying for nationals.
Coleman set a season best time with
her win in the 200-butterﬂy.

Senior Kris Amoroso (200-free-
style), junior Rachelle Nock (200-
breaststroke) and freshman Claire
Dudley (200 IM) were also individual
winners. The 400 medley relay team
of Amoroso, Nock, Coleman and
Sauers also brought home a first
place for W&L.

“We’re coming back together
after hard training,” said Remillard.
“I also think the team is developing
a lot of confidence.”

Next Saturday W&L swims
against Mary Washington. A win
would bring the Generals’ record to
6-7 overall, 3-0 in the conference.
The Generals hold the best time in
every event in the conference except
the 1650, but Reniillard is confident
his team will take over the top time
in that event as well.

“We will get that time. And then
we'll be in position to win our third
straight ODAC title.”

The ODAC championships will be
held Feb. 23-24 at Hollins College.

\‘

&‘

0-. 1 :1 .4

.r

$

-ragweed

s. Q 3»-

i

C

/E

w. ‘an < ‘ U

 

CC‘

4.

<‘?~1

u.

~A_, Q ‘C

W&L|FE

 

 

 r:ii>i::ir::ir:'ii::ii::ii:;ir::it::ir:Jr:

Detail from the cover of Tom Wolfe's latest bestseller.

Wolfe’s Bonfire
hits silver screen

By Pat Lopes
Assignment Editor

Sherman McCoy will think he's at
the top. He’ll be the leading Wall
Street bonds broker. He’ll be married
and have a kid. And he’ll even have
a gorgeous girlfriend to fool around
with on the side.

But one evening as Sherman
McCoy drives through New York,
he'll find out that all the things he
has won't get him out of the mess he
drives into.

By December of this year, we’ll
be there to watch him as he burns in
Bonﬁre of the Vanities, a $30 million
movie based on Washington and Lee
alumnus Tom Wolfe's best selling
novel by almost the same name.

Wolfe also wrote the best seller
which became a 1983 block buster,
The Right Stuff.

Warner Brothers bought the mo-

tion picture rights to Wolfe's The
Bonﬁre of the Vanities and the lead-
ing roles have already been cast,
according to producer’s assistant Mo
_L_ospinoso.

Tom Hanks is Sherman McCoy,
Melanie Griffith is McCoy's girl-
friend Maria Ruskin and Bruce Willis
is Tom Fallow, a seedy journalist
who follows McCoy's downfall from
Wall Street wizard to Harlem jail
inmate, according to Lospinoso.

Brian de Palma is directing and
Fred Caruso is producing. De Palma
and Caruso have worked together on
Dressed to Kill and Blow Out.

The screenplay was written by
Michael Christopher, who also wrote
the screenplay for The Witches of
Eastwick.

Lospinoso said shooting will begin
in March on location, with street
scenes in New York and indoor shots
in Los Angeles.

Didn’t win the Bahamas trip?

DO IT

Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695

 

 

The Ring-tum Phl, February 8, 1990

Senior behoids piece of history

By Tracey Thomblade
Staff Reporter

A spur-of-the-moment decision became a one of a
kind learning experience for senior Tie Sosnowski.

Tie, a European History major from Dallas, made a
quick dash to the Berlin Wall a few days before
Thanksgiving to become a part of history.

He decided to make the trip at 2 p.m., and later that
evening boarded a plane bound for Berlin. Tie made the
trip on the condition that he be back in time to meet the
family for Thanksgiving dirmer in St. Louis.

On the way to the airport his father expressed concern
over his son's sudden impulse. Tie justified his actions by
saying, “I pay $10,000 a year to study history, but I’m
only spending $1,000 to see history being made." Also,
Tie plarmed to sell pieces of the wall, or “Die Mauer”
as souvenirs to pay for his trip. -

Upon reaching Berlin, Tie caught a bus and made a I
beeline for the wall. His mission was to chip off the
piece where he had spray painted his name earlier in the
year, when he had travelled with the German department
during spring term.

Unfortunately he soon found that the section with his
name on it had been one of the few which had been
opened up for easier access between the two Berlins.

He set to work on another section and stored the
pieces in a hotel room across the street; When he left
Berlin the next day, Tie took with him eighty-seven
pounds of “Die Mauer."

When he returned home, he cut the stone and applied
asbestos sealant to keep it from crumbling. To the stones
he attached engraved gold plates. Tie sold the stones for
$30 apiece, including a photo of the piece still in the wall
and an affidavit of its authenticity.

The pieces sold so quickly that Tie decided to return
to Berlin two weeks later with his brother. This time he
pulled out about four hundred and fifty pounds of “Die
Mauer,” which he shipped back to the U.S. in a huge
crate.

Tie said the biggest problem in getting pieces from the »
wall was the police. “As long as you were casual about
it they didn’t care, but if you made too‘ much noise or
were obnoxious about it, the police would confiscate your
tools.” Often this meant throwing them into “no man’s '
land,” which is the space between the two walls V
separating East and West Berlin. Tie said he spent at
least ﬁve hundred dollars on tools while he was there.

After spending a few days in Berlin, Tie travelled
alone to Prague where he signed a petition for Havel to
become President. He had a difficult time getting into
Czechoslovakia, however, as he was there right about the
time of the revolution. After trying both the East and
West Berlin Czechoslovakian embassies, Tie finally drove
back through West Germany, followed its border to where
it meets the Czech border and entered the country at that
point. I

c The greatest things about his trip were “The people
I met and the conversations I had," said Tie. Despite the
language barrier, he was able to talk to several Germans,
including a student, Matthias Lehmann and an East

German soldier, Gurmard Reppin. Tie remembers vividly
the conversation with Reppin, who explained that both
East and West Germany need each other. He commented
that “The West Germans have eyes to see what they
want, ears to hear what they want, and feet to go where
they want, whereas East Germany has the soul which will
make the two one.”

When Tie returned home he was interviewed by
Channel 8 in Dallas, after which he received numerous
calls from people who wanted pieces of the wall. This
week he plans to travel to Washington, D.C., where he
will present his senators a.rId congressman with souvenirs.

Some of Tie’s memorabilia will be displayed in the
library  the near future and he may speak on campus.

TOP: W&L senior Tie Sos-
nowski shows off one area
painted with W&L graffiti on his
recent trip to Berlin. ABOVE:
Sosnowski chips away at the
Berlin Wall, pieces of which he
brought back to the U.S.

__.|
C/l/(omit g(w'Ju Qiﬁjleir

Call for appointment
All Students Welcome

Old Mainist. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

 

Best Fundraisers On Campus “
is your iratemity, sorority, or club interested in
earning 31,000+ tor a oneweek , on-campus
marketing project? You must be well-organ-
ized and hard working. Call Jenny or Myra at
(800)592-2121.

463-9588

 

   

  

George’“s
Hairstylist

   

She unloosed

      
 
      
  
     

   
  

 

. nrliiﬁlilﬂﬁiigﬁﬂfis
the rlbmn. . . W N 463_3g75 ' M H
e carry exxus, Re ken & Paul itche
 pu"_ed  Open Evenings
thin Covering aside Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.
and dropped it
to the ﬂoor-_ l/E1lNzfz’2z¢*IsI)(1y is W'(1r1r*.\‘(I’z1_\'.
Fcbr1mr_v I4.
cludrotronrcs .
She looked at mm, VlRGlNlA'S srsneo SPECIALIST  
, DENON ALPINE
eyes Wild ADCOM aosron  a
B&O CWD .
With anticipation. KEF SONANCE P  h
SIGNEF ‘ B&K  L 
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
At |ast,with  1100133’-
- TION DEPARTMENT , , , _
ribbon and paper :'$i;°';SS$.§§i.“$‘;$S§.”l.%2  1 '7
tom  - TRADE-INS ACCEPTED -
;ad (800) 468-6667 
SI '9 Open GRAND PAVILION MALL 
nercaravansgmbox ..:;';.::::.:'2.:::9.':.“::::..

“Happy Valentine ’s, ”
he smiled.

   
  

 

CATHOLIC
CAMPUS
MINISTRY

PFAMJTSCHARACTFRS ﬂ I958 l96l:UvW

  

He’s guarantee to wIn any 
Valentine’s heart! Give some- 
one special Teleflora’s Snoopy _ A
Love Bouquet. To send one .
anywhere, call or visit our
shop today.

463-9841 1:

A/Ofl:eleflora° 

the I 

fferson

florist to The Homestead

103 N. Jelfereon, Lexington, Va. 24450

St. Patrick’s Church

Mass Schedule:
Saturday - 5:00 p.m.
Sunday - 8:00 & 10:30 a.m.

CABAVANS

121 West Nelson Street
Lexington

464-3500

Open Daily 10AM - 6 PM
Sunday Noon - 6 PM

Video and dinner following Saturday Mass

   

Virginia Network of
Catholic Students Retreat

Feb. 9-11 at Eagle Eyrie
For info, call Burr 463-3533

 

  

EBAQK PAGE

The R/ng-tum Phl, February 8, 1990

Olél

A taste of old Mex is coming to Lex

By Spain Brumby
Stall’ Reporter

The Palms owner Wade Leslie has
answered the loud cry from W&L
students for a Mexican restuarant in
Lexington.

El Cafe, which will be located on
the comer of Main and Jefferson
Streets, will open this spring, Leslie
said. Leslie recently bought the build-

The Hodge Podge housewares and the

Jefferson Florist and Garden, which
he will convert to a restaurant.
According to Leslie, El Cafe will
feature a Tex—Mex cuisine, mostly
Mexican, including tacos, burritos,
and enchiladas. “Although the menu
has not been finalized, we do have
plans for several speciality dishes
which carmot be found at restaurants
such as Chi Chi’s," Leslie said.
Several W&L students have ex-

can restaurant in Lexington.

' Senior" Dede Connor, who eats out
several nights a week, said, “A Mex-
ican restaurant will be a nice change.
Lexington needs more choices of
restaurants. I just hope it opens
before I graduate!” Freshman Jen
Paciorek, when told about the plans

'for El Cafe said, “That's awe-
some!"

The Jefferson Florist has already

found a new location in Lexington at

Monday, Feb. 19.

Sally Lincoln, manager of The
Jefferson, says, “We are thrilled with
the new location. It is more open

and light.” She adds, “We are also
excited about the Mexican rest-
aurant.”

Hodge Podge closed last week.
According to Nell Byers, an employ-
ee, “Hodge Podge is not planning to
reopen in Lexington. However, we
do have another location at Winter-

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

ing at 116 N. Main St., occupied by

pressed their enthusiasm for a Mexi-

10 East Nelson St. It will open there

green.’ ’

Seniors reach new heights in K 2

By Todd Peppers
Entertainment Columnist

On Friday the Broadway hit K 2 opens at the
University Theatre. The play by Patrick Meyers is
a thesis project for Washington and Lee seniors
David Daves, Michael Dixon and Mary Hipp.

Daves is the director of K 2, Dixon acts in the
lead role of Harold, and Mary Hipp is responsible
for the light design. Dixon is joined by Washing-
ton and Lee sophomore Mason Pettit in the role as
Taylor, the only other character.

The title refers to the play’s setting: the second
highest mountain in the world. The play begins
shortly after the two men are caught in a climbing
accident that leaves Harold with a broken leg. At
first the two men desperately seek a solution that
will allow them to both descend the treacherous
slope; eventually they will come to the horrible
conclusion that only Taylor can leave the mountain.

The play focuses on the bond between the two
friends since, ultimately, Harold will order Taylor
"to salvage one life which can be saved, and to
live on for both of them."

In the February edition of the drama
department’s Curtain Call, director Daves wrote
that “the situation of two men facing a battle with
natural forces is not a new one. But what makes
the play so interesting is how the men, Taylor and
Harold, relate to each other...at first glance Harold
and Taylor seem to be complete opposites, black
and white. However, upon closer examination it
appears that rather than being opposites they are
each other's mirror image.”

Auditions

 

Daves added that “...in the end we are alone.
For Taylor and Harold, however different their own
lives are, in the end, meaning is given to them
through each other.”

On Monday I attended part of the K 2 technical
rehearsal. What I witnessed was not the ﬁnished
product; nor was I able to see the play in its
entirety due to the frequent stops. Yet the
“diamond in the rough” that I saw is rapidly
emerging into an impressive production.

One of the hardest chores an actor can face is
trying to rriaintain intensity while the ﬂow of the
play is constantly interrupted, yet both Dixon and
Pettit kept a high degree of concentration during
the practice. Both W&L students offer solid and
authentic characters.

Dixon has the daunting task of portraying the
crippled Harold. Daves wrote that because of
Harold’s disabilities “his ideas, thoughts, feelings,
had to be expressed solely through language. My
task as a director was to make this verbal activity
as essential and real as the physical activity of the
other character.”

Harold is a physicist and a devoted family man;
Taylor is a ﬁery district attorney who views love
as a battle zone.

Pettit, besides having to create the believable
character of Taylor, also gets to demonstrate his
mountain climbing skills. (Mountain climbing in a
theater? Just a testimony to Tom Ziegler’s set.)

During the two hours I spent in the theater, I
was impressed with both Pettit and Dixon; from
broken legs and shattered spirits, to hypothermia
and rage, their injuries and emotions rang true.

Moveover, I was struck with the way Daves

interacted with his actors. He hung on their every
movement and, during breaks offered praise, subtle
criticism, and suggestions. Both Pettit and Dixon
appeared to work well with their director.

The most striking aspect of K 2 is the set
designed by Tom Ziegler. I am constantly amazed
that, from such diverse shows as Little Shop of
Horrors to «No Exit, Ziegler, with the aid of
technical director Gary Hurniston, can offer such
superb sets. If Ziegler can consistently produce
these wonderful results in the cramped and
antiquated Troubadour Theatre, then his creative
genius will go wild in the Lenfest Center.

This particular set is unique. The audience does
not sit in the normal Theatre seats, but rather in
the downstage area of the stage. Soaring above
them is a 24 foot mountain side that is shrouded
in fog and stretches into darkness.

The actors are located on a small ledge which
is located on the side of the mountain. The play
opens with a five-minute sunrise and later features
a realistic avalanche scene. The illusion is perfect,
and Daves warns his potential audience to “bring
a coat; it gets very cold at 27,000 feet.”

I‘ will not assign K 2 one of my arbitrary
grades since I did not see either a finished or
complete product. But if my glimpse of the show
is at all accurate, then Daves, I-Iipp, and Dixon
have collaborated on a strong senior thesis.

Take a break from the movies and go see K 2.
The play opens Feb. 9 and runs through Feb. 14.
You can phone the Theatre at 463-8637 for
reservations. Plays do not come with movie ratings,
but the Curtain Call notes that adult language is
used in K 2.

on Tuesday

From Staff Reports

Auditions for the University
Theatre's one-act plays, “Grace-
lan ” and “Love is the Best
Doctor,” will be held Tuesday at
5 p.m. and 7 p.m. and Wednes-
day at 7 p.m.

Senior Mary Hipp will direct
“Graceland,” a play by Ellen
Byron. Moliere’s “Love is the
Best Doctor” will be directed by
junior Karen Meyers.

The student-directed plays are
at the heart of W&L’s educational
theater program, according to a
statement from the theater. Facul-
ty perform only an advisory role;
the students chose the plays and
will cast them and design the
productions.

The plays will be performed
in the Troubadour Theatre March
29 - April 1.

   
 
 
   
 

Alum jumps into Panama

From Press Releases

“At the two-minute warning, I
was praying pretty well. At one
minute before the jump, I was pray-
ing like I’ve never prayed in my
life.”

That is how 2nd Lt. Jon Missert
described his first combat jump into
Panama on Dec. 21. A 1988 gradu-
ate of W&L, Missert was commis-
sioned in June of 1988 and is pres-
ently Company Fire Support Officer
with the 82nd Airborne Division at
Fort Bragg, N.C.

The 82nd Airborne was alerted at

9 a.m. on Dec. 18, drew equipment _

and moved to a secured area six
hours before the jump. The mission,
according to President Bush, “was to
safeguard the lives of Americans in
Panama, combat drug trafficking, and
protect the integrity of the Panama
Canal Treaty.”

When it came time to jump, Mis-
sert said he was scared, but there was
so much to do, and his ruck was

Fancy _Dress is just around the corner, so »why not impress your _
date with the foxtrot or a perfect waltz. Frank Roupas will show '
you how, here on campus. ONLY $5.00!

Monday night, Room 113 in the University Center. Three one-hour lessons are
available at 7, 8 and 9 p.m.

_~_._._ Th e_.

WILLSON-
WAL K E R
HOUSE

Restaurant

30 N. Main St., Lexington

 

lma: " '

Valentine’s Dinner Special

featuring

Includes
pilaf,
homemade
cupid’s delight pie, and com-
plimentary glass of wine.

 p€f p€I'SOI1

Reservations are recommended

house salad, seafood
vegetable of the day,
rolls and muffins,

463-3020

heavy, causing enough pain to make
him forget the fear. “The jump
looked fine,” he said, “until I looked
down to see tracers and burning .
buildings below me.”

Upon landing, Missert found him-
self in the backyard of a Panamanian
citizen. In broken Spanish, Missert
was able to communicate with him.
The Panamanian guided him toward
the airport and exclaimed, “Thank
God you're here.”

From there, Missert moved on
toward the airport to link up with his
company and continue the mission.
As Fire Support Officer, Missert was
to use artillery, air support and mor-
tar available to him and neutralize
PDF headquarters, thus clearing the
way for the infantry. Once this was
accomplished, the task left was basi-
cally for the infantry to go in and
mop up, Missert said.

While he was scared throughout
the military action, Missert knew the
importance of his mission and said he
thought it was necessary for the U.S.
to intervene. As a military officer,

ns!

   

I

 
   

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I .D.

  
   

    
 

Hamric & Sheridan, JeWel8I'S

 
  

dppdgogdzo‘

 

2nd. Lt. Jon Missert, ‘88

he is not a policy maker, but rather a
policy enforcer. Nevertheless, he
said, “Every Panamanian citizen we
met was very glad to see us.”

Fnieibttishte

I III IIIKISIIEIE SIDE
‘Our 80 your 0! qullly Inf‘
IHMKSONMIUODOCIKXIN
can: a mu.uiI at-iu:ii\t.'rIii.s
. unreuruuvux

9.§‘:.?.§.‘.?

item

S‘0t mm 944
U‘

%au-I-"" nausea uuuronvat

  
 

  

   
   

  

     
 
 

    
  

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St." ,
Lexington, Va. 24450 I

FALL & WINTER MERCHANDISE
ON SALE NOW
New Spring items arriving daily

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(703)463-5988
. 

February 9 to February 16

8 p.m FILM SOCIETY: Sex, Lies, and Videotape.
Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

8 p.m PLAY: K - 2, by Patrick Myers, directed by David S.
Daves '90 (through Feb. 14). University Theatre. For
reservations, call theatre office, 703/463-8637.

8 p.m CONCERT: Intercollegiate Choral Festival: W&L, V.M.I.,
and Mary Baldwin. Lee Chapel.Pub|ic invited.

1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: La Traviata (Verdi). WLUR-FM
(91.5). '

8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Sex, Lies, and Videotape. Classroom
"A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

8 p.m. PLAY: K - 2. University Theatre.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: SWIMMING (M&W): Mary
Washington; BASKETBALL: Roanoke College;

WRESTLING: Va. College Championships; INDOOR
TRACK:Va. Tech Relays.

 ﬂﬂ

8 p.m. PLAY: K - 2. University Theatre.

8 p.m. ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: "Ma
Rainey's Black Bottom," a play by August Wilson.
Lexington High School.

4:30 p.m. PSYCHOLOGY AND NEUROSCIENCE SEMINAR:

. ‘Learning and Synaptic Plasticity,‘ Paul Chapman '82

dept. of psychology, University of Minnesota. Room
318, Tucker Hall. Public invited.

8 p.m. PLAY: K - 2. University Theatre.

8 p.m. CONCERT: A recital of bagpipe music by Scott MacAu|ay
distinguished piper from Canada.Lee Chapel.
Reception to follow in duPont Hall. Public invited.

4 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT & PLACEMENT: Job Search
Internships/summer. Room 109, University Center.

7:30 p.m. W&L & VMI PSYCHOLOGY SEMINAR: Max Hammerton,
dept. of psychology, University of Newcastle Upon
Tyne. Room 111. Mallory Hall, V.M.I. Public invited.

8 p.m. PLAY: K - 2. University Theatre.

8 p.m. CONCERT: W&L student recital of instrumental, piano,
and vocal performers. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Eastern
Mennonite.
Valentine's Day.

3 p.m. CD&P: Test Interpretation. Room 108, University Center.

7:30 p.m. WRESTLING: Generals vs. Longwood. Warner Center.

8 p.m. PLAY: K - 2. University Theatre.

5 p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Darcy L. Russell, assistant

professor of biology, W&L. Room 401, Howe Hall.
Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.

EBl.QALEEBB.uABX_1§
Washington holiday begins.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WRESTLING: Eastern
Regionals (through 2/17).

IﬁtﬁtﬁiﬂlﬂﬁfiﬁlOiﬁtﬁDtﬁﬁitithﬂﬁlittlﬁiﬁll
I

EXHIBITIONS

DUPONT GALLERY: "George McNeil: Paintings and Lithographs‘

(through Feb. 16). Gallery hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through
Friday. Admission is free.

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: "Recent Boatwright Fund
Acquisitions" (through Feb. 8).

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: ‘Parallel
Letters--Parallel Lives: The Correspondence of Lee and Jackson"
(through February 15). Hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday

COMMERCE SCHOOL, MAIN LOBBY AND READING ROOM:
"Paintings by Kathleen Olson."

FREE-Spring Break-FREE
Promote and escort our Daytona
Trip, Good Pay and Fun. Call
(CMI) Campus Marketing, 1-800-
423-5264

Weatherby® -Remington‘?

 

  

Browning® 0 Mossberg®
We will not be undersold
,by anyone!

FREE

Scope Mount _& Bore
Sighting with. purchase.

Best prices on Hunting
Equipment & Clothing tool

 

Aerobics 0 Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

©'tIUNTI2Ii€§
18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington 463-1800

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Use this form to order...

PERSONALS

Personal ads may be submitted to The Ring-tum Phi office, on Ihc second floor of the university
center, or can be mailed to: Personals, PO. Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. Ads must be rccievcd
in the office by Tuesday at 3:00pm for inclusion in the following Thursday's edition. Submissions
of questionable content may be rejected by the editors, and a refund will be given.

l

Rates III'L‘I $2.50 for the first four
lines and $.75 for each additional
line (up In 8 total IITlCS).TI’1CI‘t: are
24 CIIIIIIICICYS per line; caps count
as two characters.

L_[_L_L_Z_./_j_J_/._LJ4_L_LL_/_J_/_1_/4_/_/_Q_[

l

//////////////// 

PAYMENT MUST ACCOMPANY SUBMISSION
_________ __9tIss§§_$911112_13£r1a£ym_13[t£____________

F"'-""_""""""""'-""""""“"

I

.-z

D

Itfﬁﬂr‘

V

«gas

T

 

