'1 A -.4 ’ r. it 3' " ' ""' 
1, 2'. .ar....; - v wl< ,-2, 2 :1; —s5'.4;;>/, Q”
* -g. e_t’j v'»"¢: V ’l »“_‘(-‘_;i~

3‘   

i  01:2 i’~”’n9-fum til!‘

I
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

§Trustees Comer case to go

i:::::‘"9         before grand lurv
1 y   A     A  T        A r g§sfc§::§";§,g‘r°"8"° “I wish to hell it wouIdn_’t
have happened, and I wish

I had had the balls to step
forwar .”

I VOLUME 89, NO. 16 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY FEBRUARY 1, 1990

0 By Blair Simmons
* Staff‘ Reporter

Charles “Blake” Comer will appear before
a grand jury Monday to face charges of hit-
and—nm and involuntary manslaughter, despite
his attomey’s attempt to get the manslaughter
charge dropped.

Comer, 21, told Lexington Police Chief
Bruce Beard on Nov. 30 that he was driving
the car involved in the March 16 hit-and-run
death of freshman Mary Ashley Scarborough.

At a preliminary hearing Tuesday, Judge
Joseph Hess ruled there was enough evidence
against Comer to send the case to the Rock-
bridge County grand jury.

Comer’s attorney, Thomas Spencer, had
asked Hess to drop the manslaughter charge,
saying there was not sufficient evidence to
show that Comer was driving in an irres-
ponsible manner or engaging in anything ille-
gal at the time of the accident.

Without such evidence, Spencer said, there
is no proof of the “willful neglect for human
life" necessary for a charge of involuntary
manslaughter.

At Tuesday’s hearing Beard read a tran-
script of Comer’s statement. In it Comer said
that at the time of the accident, which occurred
between 2 and 2:15 a.m., he was driving east
on Washington Street toward McDonald's.
Comer said he was’ going home and was alone.

Virginia State Trooper Cecil E. Bowen, an
accident reconstruction expert, testiﬁed that he
believed Comer was travelling west on Wash-
ington Street in the eastbound lane when the
accident occurred.

Bowen said the location of evidence found
at the scene, including Scarborough’s boot, two
blood stains and a tire mark, supported his con-
clusion. If Comer had been driving east, as
Comer said in his statement, the position of
these items would have been different, said
Bowen.

Commonwealth's Attorney Eric Lee Sisler
said he thought the evidence was more than
enough to support a charge of manslaughter.

I The Washington and Lee Board of
, Trustees will determine next year's
tuition, room and board and financial
‘aid policies during the board's meet-
,ing Friday and Saturday, said W&L
President John D. Wilson.
4 "The meeting will begin at 8:30
a.m. on Friday with reports from
‘ Executive Committee President Wil-
4 lard Dumas, President of the Alumni
Association John Kleindinst and Dean
' of the Law School Randall Bezanson.
, Dumas said he will give statistics
and report on the condition of the
‘ honor system and give an overview
~ of new campus activities and the
greek system.
'. "I plan to tell them about the
Student Activities Board's great prog-
' ress and improvement due a lot to
, key people and a change in attitude
facilitated by the hard-nosed attitude
*‘ the EC took," said Dumas.
, Wilson said he will then explain
( the agenda for the weekend and intro-
I duce the new Athletic Director, Mi-
chael Walsh. The rest of Friday will
be spent in separate standing comrnit—
it tees, interrupted by a luncheon and
followed by a dimer honoring the
‘ three new board members.
4 Dumas, who will attend the lun-
cheon, said he has invited 13 other
‘students to represent all aspects of
:. student life.
The Committee on Campus Life
I will hear about last Saturday's open
‘' honor trial, sorority winter rush and
new Athletic Director Michael
4 Walsh’s plans, issues Wilson thinks
will be of interest to the entire board.
" Dumas said he will answer questions.

— Blake Comer

“If that isn’t gross negligence for human
life then I don't know what is," he said.

Police said they were led to Comer in late
November after receiving a tip from an uniden-
tiﬁed Washington and Lee graduate. -

The tip led police to Comer’s home in
Greenville, S.C., where they were able to match
a horn cover found at the accident scene to
Comer’s mother's car. _

According to Beard, Comer denied involve-
ment in the accident during the original police
interview. After an hour of questioning, Comer
broke down and said he “wanted to tell the
truth about Ashley's death,” said Beard.

In his statement, Corner said he had been
driving his mother's car, an ’86 metallic blue
Honda Accord, the night of the accident.

He said Scarborough stepped off the curb
and “stumbled in front of the car.”

“I was petriﬁed. I wish I would have
stopped and gone back but I didn’t,” he said.

Comer said he drove directly home after the
accident and, after a few hours, decided to go
to Washington to repair the car. He said he told
no one about the accident.

“You don't know what it's like to have
taken the life of somebody young, somebody
that is really my age, and then think of every-
thing they will miss in life,” Comer said.

“I wish to hell it wouldn't have happened,
and I wish I had had the balls to step
forwar .”

The grand jury could refuse to indict or
hand up indictments on either or both charges.

If convicted, Comer could be sentenced to
up to ﬁve years in prison for hit-and—run and
ten years for involuntary manslaughter.

Comer was in his senior year at W&L when
he withdrew Dec. 3.

(I

Bashing taxing

Syndicated columnist Walter E. Williams goes after taxes and government in a speech
Tuesday night in Lee Chapel. Williams’ address was sponsored by Contact. Staff photo by
Chris Leiphart.

Students lose someprivileges by voting in Virginia

I
1
V

I

1

By Pat Lopes
Assignment Editor

W&L students will be able to register on
campus to vote in the upcoming local elec-
tions this spring, but before signing across the
dotted line they should think about losing

. many of the privileges they now enjoy as

I

residents of their home states.
“The board does want all qualiﬁed citi-
zens to vote,” said Lexington Electoral Board

' President Bill Steams at the City Council

meeting on Jan. 18. “But ideally we hope the
students will make an informed decision for
themselves.”

In an effort to help students register to

I vote, Steams said the board is working with

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins to ﬁnd convenient locations and times
to set-up voter registration tables on the
W&L campus. Steams also told council
members of changes in voter registration

_ procedures at city hall after students com-

plained that they were being harassed when
they tried to register.

“In the past the registrar here has asked
some questions, but the law speciﬁcally states
you can't ask students specific questions that

you don't ask everyone," Steams said.
“Now, you can ask her [the registrar] ques-
tions but she won't ask you.”

According to Steams, the registrar has
been trying to determine whether students
were legal residents of Virginia, as required
by state law. This requirement of legal resi-
dency is at the center of a number of compli-
cations involved with students registering to
vote in Lexington. ,

According to Article 11 of the Constitu-
tion of Virginia, residence requires “both
domicile and place of abode.” By virtue of
having a room here at school, most students
can legally meet the place of abode clause,
but meeting the domicile part is a bit more
tricky.

Section 24.1-1 of the Virginia Code de-
ﬁnes domicile with 11 requirements. The list

includes working in Virginia, holding a local
lease and having personal property, such as a
car. Most students meet some of these qualiﬁ-
cations, but it isn’t necessary to meet every
requirement.

Both Steams and Virginia State Board of
Elections Secretary Sue Fitzhugh emphasized
that students are responsible for determining
whether they are residents of Virginia. Stu-
dents who are not Virginia residents but
register to vote anyway will be committing
perjury, which is a felony in Virginia.

Steams said that even if W&L students
can meet these qualiﬁcations, they should
realize claiming legal residency here means
they may lose legal residency in their home
state. '

Students will lose their right to vote in
hometown elections if they sign the oath on
the Virginia registration form, Steams pointed
out. The oath states in part, “I hereby autho-
rize the cancellation of any previous voter
registration held by me.”

Students may also lose coverage under

homeowners insurance policies, Stern said.
Homeowners insurance is what students turn
to for emergency money after their personal
property, like stereos and jewelry, is stolen or
destroyed. He added that homeowners insur-
ance policies generally include a clause stat-
ing that students away from home will be
covered by their parents’ policy as long as

‘they are residents of their parents’ homes.

An ofﬁcer at the St. Paul Insurance Co.
said students claiming permanent residence
outside of their parents’ home are covered,
but the coverage is limited to 10 percent.
Insurance ofﬁcer Rose Stevens said students
could purchase their own policies, which
would vary in price according to how much
property is covered.

Steams also pointed out that students
should think about graduate school before
registering to vote. Students claiming Virgin-
ia as their legal residence may not qualify for
resident tuition rates in their home state, he
said. However, Fitzhugh conﬁrmed that
students can be legal residents of Virginia

Speakers
to discuss
drug abuse

From the W&L News Office

Washington and Lee’s Health

Education Committee has planned a

~ variety of activities in conjunction

with National Collegiate Drug Aware-

ness Week, which will be observed
Feb. 5-9.

The keynote speaker for the event
will be Dr. Fred W. Frick, ‘74, direc-
tor of drug testing and clinical con-
sultant for the Women’s International
Tennis Association.

Frick will give a public address
on Monday, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. He will discuss the effects
of combining alcohol with other
drugs, the symptoms of drug abuse,
and drug and alcohol treatment pro-
grams. The public is invited.

During his visit to the campus,
Frick will also meet with W&L sci-

'ence students and with members of
the university's coaching staff.

Another Drug Awareness Week
program will be held Wednesday, at
7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel, where two
attorneys from the Richmond ﬁrm of
McGuire, Woods, Battle, and Boothe
will discuss drug testing in the work-
place.

William Toorney and Scott Cairns,

‘ experts in the ﬁeld of labor and em-
ployment law, will speak about drug
testing procedures, new methods such
as hair and brain wave testing, and
legal issues affecting drug testing.

Renaissance faces zoning troubles

By Andrew Waters
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee officials scratched
from the Master Plan a proposal to close
Henry Street and said they would ask the
city to change its zoning laws to allow the
university to purchase property occupied by
fraternity houses.

President John Wilson, Capital Planner
Frank Parsons and three architects presented
the proposal as part of the latest version of
the university’s Master Plan to the Lexing-
ton Planning Commission last Thursday.

A new student center next to the Univer-

sity Library is also included in the Master
Plan. Parsons said the student center as it
exists today isn’t adequate because of
crowded conditions and because “it’s not in
the center of anything.”

The new student center would serve the
same purpose as the Co—op, which would
become a faculty center for the Commerce
school.“We hope in the next decade the
new student center will serve as a facility
that will draw students from the city and
county to be on campus,” Wilson told the
Plarming Commission.

Parsons said the building, which would
be built in the same low- profile manner as
the library, may include one or two parking

levels. The university also plans to add

parking to the corral and each fraternity

house to make the number of space! equal
to the number of students living in the
houses.

The Master Plan also proposes to include
all fraternity houses it renovates in the city's
institutional zoning district to avoid the
application process and time restraints of
individual conditional use permits. The
institutional district is the zoning district that
comprises university-owned land.

City law, however, prohibits fraternity
houses from being built in the institutional
district. Parsons said a change in the law

Cl Please see ZONING page 3

IFC, police meet to solve problems

By Chuck Broll
Staff Reporter

Lexington police ofﬁcials, Interfraternity
Council ofﬁcers and fraternity presidents
worked out some differences at the ﬁrst
Fratemity-Police Relations Committee meet-
ing last Thursday, IFC President Kevin Nash
said at Tuesday's IFC meeting.

The Fraternity—Police Relations Commit-
tee will meet every Thursday at 3 p.m. at
City Hall to further strengthen relations,
Nash said.

Nash called the meeting “a pretty good
thing to do” to improve relations with
police after a weekend when seven noise
violations were given out, one fraternity
president was arrested and police complained
of harrassment from fraternity members.

The police suggested starting parties

earlier, keeping sober people at the doors
and refraining from carrying beer cans
outside the parties and walking in the mid-
dle of the streets, Nash said. The police
also want to talk to someone in charge
when they stop at a fraternity house, prefer-
ably someone whose name is on the noise
permit, Nash said.

The police said sober drivers have

‘ brought the number of Driving Under the

Inﬂuence violations by W&L students “way
down,” Nash said.

Elections for the seven top Interfraternity
Council offices will be held in one week,
IFC Vice President Hunt Niedringhaus said.

Nominations were taken at the meeting,
but further nominations can be made by
placing a candidate's name and fraternity
afﬁliation in the IFC box on the second
floor of the University Center by 3:00 p.m.
Monday, Niedringhaus said.

The candidates nominated at the meeting
include Les Lewis and Goodloe Lewis for
the IFC presidency; Mike Skarda was the
lone candidate for vice president. For
secretary, the candidates are Dax Cummings
and Jonathon Symonds. Bill Hoehn and
Evan Balmer were nominated for treasurer.

Tom Costello was the only name men-
tioned for senior justice, and Bill Brinkman,
Jay McKnight, Thomas Otis, Clint
Wheelock, Rob Rambo and Greg Hicks
were nominated for the two junior justice
positions. _

Associate Dean of Students Leroy C
“Buddy” Atkins said he will begin to go
over possible plans for housing, food, party-
ing, rush and other topics concerning the six
fraternities that will probably be under
renovation next fall.

“We’ll set up a time where we can get
this stuff rolling,” Atkins said.

Superdance 1990

FRIDAY NIGHT
6:00 - 7:00
7:00 - 1:00

SATURDAY NIGHT
7:00 - 8:00

8:00 - 9:30

9:30 - 11:30
11:30 -1:00

Let's Active and Black and Blue are both spon-
sored by the Student Activities Board.

Cash or Points: Chris Beeley, Pat Gocher, Ann Gregory,
Scott Hamilton, David Martin; Cho: Tom Dierdorff, Bill
Brinkman, Andrew Keller, Bryant Spann; Closed Monday:
Paul Galanides, Marcus Miller, two students from Lynch-
burg College; Lost in the Supermarket: David Claybo,
Lee Fleming, Bob Fuller, Nikko Lorenzatos, Matt Stover;
Skjellyfettiz Pat Hefferanan, Doug Freimuth, Chris Pen-
ders, Greg Ossi; Soul Kitchen: Camp Ellis, Erlc Harlan,
Carli Flippen, Nick Fralln, Bill Meadows; 1”iny Purple
Fishes: Robbie Boswell, Michael Higgenbotham, Geoff
Nagel, Mason Pope, John Greene Robinson, Andy
'Wycklitfe.

and still qualify for resident tuition rates in
some home states.

Steams pointed out that students may be
able to go to graduate school in Virginia at
resident tuition rates. However, resident rates
for graduate school in Virginia may not come
very easily. According to the Ofﬁce of Vir-
ginia Status for Students at the University of
Virginia, voting here for four years is not
enough to make you a resident in the eyes of
the people who collect tuition at UVa. Stu-
dents from out of state must also prove they
are ﬁnancially independent.

Even if students can claim they are legal
residents of Virginia, are willing to give up
the privileges of residency in their home
states, are willing to buy their own homeown-
ers insurance and realize they still are
out—of—staters to UVa graduate school ofﬁ-
cials, there is still one more fact to consider.

According to Lexington Mayor H.E.
“Buddy” Derrick, legal residency comes at a
price — taxes. But, if students want a voice,
he said their comments would be welcomed.

1 H

Schedule of Events

Dancer Registration
Battle of the Bands
FEATURING

Cash or Points

Cho

Closed Monday

Lost in the Supermarket
Skjellytetti

Soul Kitchen

Tiny Purple Fishes

Second-Place winner,
Battle of the Bands
First Place Winner,
Battle of the Bands
Black and Blue

Let's Active

 

 

QPINIQN

The Rlng-tum Phl, February 1, 1990

Revision doesn’t
mean better

The Conﬁdential Review Committee has submitted to
President John Wilson revisions to the University Policy
on Harassment and to the CRC’s procedures. Most of the
proposed revisions change vague terminology into more
speciﬁc but more encompassing guidelines.

Under the current and proposed regulations, the CRC
considers the question of intent to insult or offend, not
the actions or remarks that offend. To this end the
committee recommends adding this clariﬁcation:

Intent can be determined by consideration of all
relevant circumstance. Expressions or actions intended to
further intellectual inquiry or state an intellectual position
will not be considered harassment.

Notice how the committee believes it can dance around
the problem of First Amendment rights, where opinions,
sometimes offensive, are not only protected, but also
encouraged. The United States Supreme Court has on
several occasions supported the right of the individual to
express his opinion his way, regardless of how offended
those around him become.

Gregory Lee Johnson shocked and offended a nation
without even opening his mouth - he burned the
American ﬂag. Johnson had a deﬁnite opinion on
President Reagan's policies, but his opinion could hardly
be called an action to “further intellectual inquiry or state
an intellectual position.”

While unintellectual but intentional opinions that would
offend someone because of his race, religion or gender
seem unlikely to occur at Washington and Lee, it just
might happen. Regular misunderstandings that offend or
insult are usually worked out in Dean McCloud’s ofﬁce.
This first line of CRC procedure seems to work very
well. If, however, the accused and the complainant cannot
agree, the matter may be turned over to the CRC proper.

Like the Executive Committee, the CRC meets and
deliberates in secret for the protection of the accused and
the complainant. Unlike the EC, the CRC has no
provisions for notifying the student body if a student has
been dismissed from school, and there is no public

appeal. Even the faculty and administration are unaware
of when the CRC meets, or what action it takes.

Such a secret body can only serve to scare students '

into silence. The fear of an unknown body handing down
sanctions to a student for sharing his opinion can
signiﬁcantly chill the exchange of ideas, and that deprives
all of us of one of the primary reasons for attending
college — examination of new ideas.

A student found guilty of “intending to offend” could
be on the next bus out? of town ‘— and no one would ever
know. The CRC, because its verdicts are final, has the
ultimate authority and is accountable to no one, not even
the president. While the proposed revisions would be
improvements, the CRC is now, and would remain, a
deterrent to free expression.

LETTERS

Outing Club praises
support for recycling

The Outing Club would like to thank and congratulate the university
community for its efforts in recycling computer paper over the course
of this year. We recently took a van-load of paper — more than 400
pounds! — to the recycling center in Staunton. Recycling boxes are still
in the computer rooms, so please continue to use them. We also have
started an on—campus newspaper drive that will beneﬁt the Lexington
High School Band Boosters. Red recycling boxes are now located next
to Evans Dining Hall and in the Graham-Lees quad for your conve-
nience, but a newspaper truck remains available at the recycling center
behind Kroger at all times. Please continue your support. It can make a
difference!

David Allen, Gray Rand, Tim Clark
Outing Club Members

approach. This a V

 

    

//”./--’— w
.////4.,

    

Virtually all changes from one acceta
another are reported by using the A   "

 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   

_.'/

    

it does noaége  ‘
incialcgst 

5 ,,/r
’ T 
/

  

d all along.

   

    
    

   
  

here are areas

ther is an example of a change in the
Alternative depreciation methods are

 

_ in financial
on ‘of fixed assets, in which more than
,, :ching from one acceptable depreciation

‘:17
2.

Two law students defend...

MY VIEW
By John M. Faik’

In response to Mr. Neurock's article “Should
the EC Govern the Law School,” the answer is an
emphatic YES! Mr. Neurock’s commentary
concerning the way in which the Honor System
currently operates was flawed and offensive due to
its avoidance of any facts, realistic analysis or
elementary research. I found Mr. Neurock’s piece
to be strikingly similar to “yellow journalism” in
that it attempts to feed on fear rather than
encourage thoughtful and provoking discussion of
the Honor System. It is my informed opinion that
the Honor System works, and that those students
accused of honor violations whether they be
undergraduates or law students face a system that
is intentionally weighted in favor of the accused's
innocence.

In Mr. Neurock’s pursuit of “justice” for law

students he contends that the current composition
of the Executive Committee has a “fatal inability
to understand the workings of the Law School”
and is t.lius unable to be just in determining the
guilt or innocence’ of law students. This conclusion
is ﬂawed by its ‘failure to recognize that every
undergraduate member of the EC with rare
exception displays a great sense of responsibility,
duty and respect for the spirit of the Honor System
and its just implementation. While Mr. Neurock did
not intend to sound pompous, he succeeded by
implying that only a law student could judge
another law student's behavior as honorable or
dishonorable. I also found it instructive that Mr.
‘Neurock could not provide one hypothetical
example from a law student’s day to day activities
that would require such expertise in order to judge
such behavior honorable or dishonorable. Mr.
Neurock makes clear in his commentary that he
has no problems with the EC’s ability to allocate
and budget a sizeable student body treasury, but in
matters of honor the Law School needs its own
Honor Council. If undergraduate EC members can
act responsibly in this very important process, what
is it about matters of honor that make them so
deficient?

I believe that Mr. Neurock's real motive is to
establish a Law School Honor Council that would

If the Law School developed
its own Honor Council, law
students would be more at
risk of unjust results.

not operate under current notions of an Honor
System but rather operate under a Uniform Honor
Code. Mr. Neurock’s real concern about the current
Honor System rests on his uneasiness over the lack
of black and white lines" that define all honor
violations in clear, unambiguous statutory language,
with clear jurisdictional and venue requirements.
Mr. Neurock, the reason that the Washington and
Lee University Honor System has operated
successfully for 125 years is that it is premised
upon evolving notions of honorable behavior as
deﬁned by the current generation's implementing
the Honor System, rather than a rigid unbending
Uniform Code that would be dated the day after it
was drafted.

Mr. Neurock states correctly that honor violations
are to be judged by our peers. In this regard, law
students are able to elect three classmrepresentatives
to the EC but also have the right to vote on the
presidentgvice-president, and secretary of the EC.
Law students should not be deceived by Mr.
Neurock’s bold assertion that they have no impact
in the composition of more than two—tliirds of the
EC. Thus, assuming that a law student is brought
before the EC in the investigation of an honor
violation, that person has had a voice in selecting
part of the two thirds required to convict a student
of an honor violation.

Further, if the law student appeals to a Student
Body Hearing, his advocates will be law students
skilled in representing those accused of honor
violations, in addition to participating in the
selection of the student body jury drawn randomly
from both law and undergraduate students. It is my
belief that the current Honor System strikes the
correct balance by ensuring that an honor violation
will be carefully examined by students familiar
with the accused's environment as well as students
less familiar but importantly disinterested from that
environment.

I do not believe that Mr. Neurock’s identiﬁed
problems are real problems, but even if they were
concerns, I don't believe they warrant the traumatic

and unrealistic solution ‘of the Law School
operating its own Honor Council. Mr. Neurock
provided only a sketchy outline of his proposal
without addressing the very real difficulties in
attempting to implement such a solution. It is my
belief that if the Law School developed its own
Honor Council that law students would be more at
risk of unjust results, due to the very real inability
of such a body to judge the behavior of law
students in an unbiased, disinterested and jv
manner.

The White Book states that “we do not think .t
is too much to ask that students do their own
work, Jepresent themselves truthfully and claim
only that which is their own.” I do not believe
that the Honor System places too heavy a burden
upon the behavior of law students, for if it- does
how are law students going to be able to meet the
burden placed upon an attomey’s behavior by the
bar as deﬁned by the Model Code of Professional
Responsibility?

Aside from my perspective of Mr. Neurock’s
comments and proposal, I have always been an
advocate for positive change where change is
warranted and likely to achieve the identiﬁed goals.
I strongly encourage both law and undergraduate
students to become more fully aware of the way in
which the current Honor System operates and their

own responsibilities under the Honor System. I’

urge all students to invest the time and energy to
offer informed and responsible proposals to
improve the present Honor System All students
are able to propose revisions to the Honor System
as delineated in the White Book by presenting such
proposals directly to the EC. Additionally, the EC
establishes White Book revisions committees every
four to ﬁve years for the purpose of re—evaluating
the Honor System. In terms of my own
recommendations, I would offer two relatively
simple proposals. The first is that the EC, the
Student Bar Association and the Law School's
administration take a more active role in educating
law students about the Honor System and its
commensurate responsibilities. Second, I would
propose that the Law School admissions process
take additional steps to make those students
considering Washington and Lee more aware of the
Honor System before they accept the invitation to
join our community.

John Falk is president of the W&L Student Bar
Association.

...the unified Honor System

  

  

 
 

 

(‘tilts King-tum lﬂlii

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18. 1897

  

Editors . Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison
Associate Editors ................................... ..Jarnes Lake, Genienne Mongno

Assignment Editor Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor .Parnela Kelley
Sports Editor Jay Plorkin
Senior Copy Editor ...Alesha Priebe
Editorial Cartoonist.... Jeff Woodland

Business Manager Anne Dysart
Advertising Manager , Iason Kelley
Circulation Managers ................................. ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

  
   

 
  

 
  

 
 

MY VIEW
By Jeff Kelsey

As a member of the undergraduate
class of 1989 at Washington and Lee
and a member of the I992 law class,
I read with great interest Mitch Neur-
ock's article concerning the Executive
Comrriittee and its ability to govern
honor violations in the Law School.
Mr. Neurock contends that “the
Executive Committee is unqualiﬁed to
act on honor matters concerning law
students,” then proceeds to list rea-
sons why undergraduate members of
the EC are incapable of handling Law
School honor violations. He uses two
basic arguments to support his thesis.
First, undergraduates carmot possibly
conceive of what law school is like
and, therefore, carmot tell if certain
actions constitute an honor violation
within the law community. Also,
undergraduates are far too young and
immature to be considered peers of
law students and are mere
“outsiders” who should not be al-
lowed to “pass judgement in matters
about which they know little or noth-
ing.” I contend that Mr. Neurock, in
his ﬁrst semester at W&L, has
missed the whole point of the Honor
System and that his arguments are
faulty and insulting to the under-
graduate EC members.

First, I ﬁnd it incomprehensible
that he could write such a lengthy
article about the Honor System and
not refer once to the White Book.
We all know that the Honor System
covers lying, cheating and stealing.
These guidelines give the EC the
ﬂexibility to expand the notion of

honor without codifying a massive set
of rules and regulations. Yet, the
rules are simple enough for a student
to apply them to almost every con-
ceivable situation. Iri the ﬁrst para-
graph of his article, Mr. Neurock
asks, “How do we decide whether
the conduct of an accused is sufﬁ-
ciently bad to warrant so severe a
penalty as expulsion?" The question
itself reveals the author's lirriited
knowledge of the Honor System.
There is no sentencing evaluation in
an honor trial. Only one possible
sentence exists if the accused is
found guilty: expulsion. The EC
determines whether an honor violation
has occurred as deﬁned in the White
Book. All cases do not ﬁt neatly into
the three basic categories; however,
each EC representative is elected,
presumably, because of his reputation
as an honorable person. It is in these
shades of gray where we rely most
heavily on our elected representatives.
Each representative has to use his or
her own idea of honor in deciding
the case. Mr. Neurock believes that
the undergraduate members do not
possess the “expertise” required to
decide these cases if a law student is
involved. I disagree. Those students
are members of the Washington and
Lee community; that is all the exper-
tise which they require. I do not
think the personal integrity of an
undergraduate student can be ques-
tioned merely because of his age or
his connection with the Law School.
Honor is a concept which does not
have an entirely different meaning
simply because one crosses the foot-
bridge.

Mr. Neurock argues that while it
is “not overly problematic” for an

undergraduate EC member to place
himself in the shoes of an under-
graduate accused, it is extremely
difﬁcult for that same EC member to
imagine himself in the place of a law
student accused. These under-
graduates, Mr. Neurock writes, “have
a fatal inability to understand the
workings of the Law School com-
munity and are in no position to
judge the guilt or innocence of any
of its members.” He seems to fear
that situations considered acceptable
in the Law School will result in a
guilty verdict by an undergraduate EC
which does not understand the cir-
cumstances. I ﬁnd this idea ludicrous
for two reasons.

First, any potential honor violation
in the Law School would be reported
by a law student or law professor and
would be reported to a law EC rep.
Thus, any situation considered nomial
behavior by Law School standards
would not be reported as an honor
violation.

Second, I can think of no set of
circurristances which would be con-
strued as honor violations on the
undergraduate campus while con-
sidered acceptable in the Law School.
Despite his implications to the con-
trary, the Law School works basically
the same as the undergraduate side.
And Mr. Neurock offers no examples
of such a situation.

Mr. Neurock next argues that the
three law representatives on the EC
carmot adequately represent the law
student who must appear before a
closed hearing. He maintains that the
undergraduate members of the EC are
incapable of “independently judging
whether the conduct of the accused

was reasonable under the circumstan-

ces,” and that mere input by the law
representatives is not enough. I be-
lieve he is entirely incorrect. No
double standard of honor should exist
between the Law School and the un-
dergraduate schools. As I noted
above, one of the great beauties of
the Honor System is its simplicity.
Any student can apply it to any situa-
tion. There is no basis for saying that
an undergraduate cannot judge an
honor violation in the Law School,
and it is insulting to those representa-
tives to imply otherwise.

Mr. Neurock also argues that
undergraduates should not be allowed
to judge law students because they
are not true peers. He says, “Law
students may justiﬁably resent being
judged by outsiders, and especially by
outsiders who are only 18 years old.”
The idea that undergraduates are
“outsiders” is incredibly condescend-
ing and pretentious. The “W&L
community” refers to everyone on
both sides of the footbridge and even
includes the town of Lexington in
certain instances. No one in this
community can be considered an
outsider to the Honor System. To
presume that 80 percent of W&L's
students are outsiders simply because
they are not in the Law School is the
height of arrogance.

In conclusion, the undergraduate
EC members take their positions very
seriously, and Mr. Neurock does them
a grave disservice when he says that
they are incapable of delivering fair
decisions in cases involving law
students. I believe the system works
on both sides of the bridge, and that
splitting the EC into two distinct
groups can only harm the Honor
System in the long r1rn.

 

      
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
       
  
   
  
  
    
    
   
   
 
   
     
    
  
      
  
    
     
 
     
   
   
   
 
  
    
   
   
 
  
   
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  

   

The Ring-tum Phl, February 1, 1990

 

  

   

GENERAL NOTES

Kayaking

Kayak classes are being of-
fered by the Outing Club in the
old pool on Thursday evenings
from 6-8. Sign up in advance at
Baker 109. In addition, the Outing
Club will sponsor canoeing on
weekends. If you want to use an
Outing Club canoe, you must take
part in this instruction. For more
details call Mark Lubkowitz at
463-7590.

Hiking

The hiking section of the
Outing Club will take an over-
night backpacking trip to the
Three Ridges area of the Blue
Ridge on Feb. 3 and 4. For de-
tails call Tim Clark at 464-4448
well in advance. Equipment and
transportation will be provided.

Biking

The biking section of the
Outing Club will take a mountain-
bike ride in the Montebello area
of the Blue Ridge on Saturday,
Feb. 3. All skill levels are wel-
come. Food and transportation
will be provided. Contact John
Buchanan at 463-7369 for more
information.

If you would like to use the
Outing Club's bike maintenance
equipment, call Jason Daywitt at
464-4665 or John Buchanan.
Regular shop hours will begin
when the warm weather returns.

Environment

The environmental section of
the Outing Club has placed boxes
for recycling newspapers under
the Graham-Lees archway and
under the archway leading to the
dining hall. Please place only
newspapers in these boxes; com-
puter paper can be put in the
recycling boxes in each of the
computer labs. If you would like
to become involved in these ef-

forts, please call Tim Clark at
464-4448.

There will be a meeting of the
environmental section of the Out-
ing Club on Monday, Feb. 12 at
5:30 pm. in room 109 of the
University Center.

Calyx pictures

Seniors, your last chance for
Calyx pictures is Feb. 9. You
now have a late fee. Sign up in
the Co-op at least one day prior
to you picture date.

Underclassmen, if your Calyx
picture was taken this month, you
must go to Andre's Studio 221 S.
Main Street to choose your
proofs, or Andre will "do it, for
you. Hours are: Monday through
Friday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. and Saturday
9 a.m.-12 p.m.

E.C. elections

Petitions for the Executive Big

.Three elections (President, Vice

President, and Secretary) may be
picked up in Carol Calkins’ office
now. They are due at the manda-
tory meeting on Monday, Feb. 5
at 5 pm. in the E.C. office. All
candidates must attend. The elec-
tions are held Monday, Feb. 12
and Thursday, Feb. 16 (run-off).

Summer school

The University of New Orle-
ans will sponsor its 15th annual
International Summer School in
Innsbruck, Austria during the
summer of 1990. Over 60 courses
in many different academic sub-
ject areas are offered. Participants
can earn up to 10 hours of credit.

Enrollment is limited, so inter-
ested students should apply as
soon as possible. For information
write to: UNO-INNSBRUCK-
1990, Iriternational Study Pro-
grams, Box 1315, University of
New Orleans, New Orleans, LA
70148; or call (504) 286-7116.

Overdue books

If you received a notice from
the University Library for books
you checked out last term, you
need to return or renew them
immediately. Bills are going out
Monday, Feb. 5. At that time you
will owe a service charge of
$5.00 per book whether the book
is returned-or not. In addition,
you will owe for the cost of the
book if it is not returned. The
registrar’s office will be notified
of these bills. Contact Mrs. Wil-
son at circulation if you have any
questions.

Filmfest

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present Swimming to
Cambodia (US, 1987) at 8 p.m.
on Friday and Saturday, Feb. 2
and 3, in classroom "A" of Lewis
Hall. The film is open to the
public and free of charge. This
film is a hilarious and intricately
crafted monologue by writer/actor
Spalding Gray.

Help wanted

Student volunteers are needed
to assist teachers in the classroom
two hours per week at Waddell
Elementary School in Lexington.
Please contact Kathleen Vance at
463-1147.

nomm

Career Connections: D.C. will
be held in the Dirksen Senate
Building on Tuesday, Feb. 20
from 6-8 p.m. Alumni interested
in helping students find jobs in
the D.C. area will be present.
Students should plan to be at the
reception Tuesday evening and
spend Wednesday, possibly Thurs-
day, in the city for follow-up and
interviews. For more information
and registration come to the
Career Development and Place-
ment Office by Feb. 2.

 

Dr. Vladimir Brovkin of the Government Depart-
ment at Oberlin College will present a public lecture
on “Contemporary Political Reform in the Soviet
Union” on Monday. The lecture will be held in
Northen Auditorium at 8 p.m. and is sponsored by the
W&L Russian Studies Committee with a grant from

the Mellon Foundation.

P..l. O’Rourke, popular contemporary writer, will
speak Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. His talk
is titled "Holidays in Hell with P.J. O'Rourke."

Time magazine calls O'Rourke “One of the fun-
niest writers in America, or anywhere else.” He is
the author of four books — Modern Manners, The
Bachelor Home Campanion, Republican Party Reptile
and Holidays in Hell, which was published last Oc-
tober. He has also written for numerous publications
including National Lampoon, Playboy, Esquire, Car and
Driver, Parade, New Republic and The American

Spectator.

He is currently the International Affairs Desk
Chief at Rolling Stone magazine.
O'Rourke’s visit to the campus is sponsored by

Contact.

  WHO’S ON HILL

James W. Carey, dean of the College of Commu-
nications at the University of Illinois (Urbana-Cham-
paign), will speak Wednesday at 8 pim. in Northen
Auditoriurri. The lecture is sponsored by the Telford
Lecture Series.

The title of Carey’s lecture is “Journalism as

Narrative Art and Political Ritual.” Carey is widely
recognized as one of the outstanding journalism

educators in the country.

During 1977-78, Carey was national president of
the Association for Education in Journalism. In
1982-83, he was president of the American Association
of Schools and Departments of Journalism. He cur-
rently serves as a member of the board of trustees of
the Illinois Humanities Council.

Carey has published over 75 essays, monographs
and reviews on the history of mass media, popular
culture and communication theory along with two
books, Media, Myth_ and Narratives:

Television and

the Press (Sage, 1988) and Communication as Culture

(Unwin and Hyman, 1989). He is currently editor of

the Journal of Communication and serves on the

editorial’board of eight journals. He has lectured at

over 40 universities in the United States and Europe.

EC hands SAB surplus

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

A unanimous Executive Commit-
tee vote Monday carried the Student
Activities Board's fall-term surplus to
winter term.

The SAB ended last term with
about $10,000 of its $15,000 fall-ter
in entertainment budget unspent. The
EC last week allotted $250 of that
sum to Lip Synch. The surplus" now
supplements the SAB’s designated
$10,000 winter-term entertainment
budget.

SAB Chairman Charles Conkliri
and Treasurer Kathleen Duwel told
the EC that the SAB has spent about
$3,000 so far this term on the Bone-
shakers concert, the Mad Hatter com-
edy show and last Friday's Bingo.

Duwel reported that the SAB will
co-sponsor the bands performing for
Superdance this weekend, and on
Feb. 14 will bring Derry Berry and
Alagia to the General Headquarters
for a Valentine’s Day concert.

Bands for the Wednesday and
Thursday prior to this year’s March 9
Fancy Dress have not yet signed,
according to Duwel, though the SAB
is negotiating with the Charlie Dan-
iels band for a show Thursday.
Duwel said the expanded SAB
winter—terrn entertainment budget will
allow for more attractions, especially
in the General Headquarters, but
added that the SAB is taking care not
to contract until FD expenditure ﬁg-
ures are more concrete.

“We are going to look at bands

for after Fancy Dress," said Duwel,
“but before we sign anything we’re
going to [establish] how much we
spent on Fancy Dress.”

If FD pays for itself as planned,
then Duwel foresees a variety of
SAB-sponsored events for the months
after the ball.

The SAB will likely request in
spring that any winter-terrn surplus be
carried over to the spring, according
to Duwel.

Conklin told the EC that the
response to SAB activities this year
“has been very positive [and] will
continue to be very positive.”

In addition, Conklin said the in-
ﬂuence of this year’s EC-imposed
restrictions on SAB meetings has
been generally positive. He noted
that one SAB member said more
people get a chance to speak at SAB
meetings now.

Conklin said, however, that the re-
strictions have lengthened both the
SAB’s meetings and its decision-
making process.

The EC also heard a budget
request from B.J. League and Connie
Papazickos on behalf of fast- pitch
women's softball.

The group received $500 of the
$859.40 they requested from the EC
to purchase equipment to start a
team. The money, according to
League, will go toward the purchase
of bats, balls, bases and helmets from
the same wholesaler that the physical
education department deals with.

“Part of the [financial] problem
is that you need so many of the
things,” said Papazickos in reference

to the equipment necessary to start
the team.

Associate Professor of Physical
Education Joseph Lyles said univer-
sity policy does not allow the loan of
university equipment to club tearris.

“If you do it for one, you have
to do it for everybody else,” said
Lyles.

To cut costs, League said play-
ers will be expected to provide their
own mitts, bring additional bats if
they have them, and contribute dues
of about $10 each for transportation
and umpires. League and Papazickos
said they intend to approach city
merchants to sponsor uniforms.

Papazickos said the EC told her
to investigate the response from mer-
chants and if additional funds are still
needed to make another request. '11’:
team will concentrate more on having
a good time than winning, said Papa-
zickos. She hopes that more women
will sign up as the team gets started,
and encourages veterans as well as
first-time players to join.

Mock Convention also came
before the EC this week for its bud-
get hearing. EC Vice President Jona-
than Sheinberg said Mock Convention
received $4,000 this year to add to
its reserve for the 1992 event, and a
$500 operating budget to aid in prep-
aration.

Petitions of at least 150 signatures
for the EC’s “Big Three” offices of
president, vice president and secretary
are due Monday by 5 p.m. 5 p.m.
The election will take place on Feb.
12, and any run—off would be Feb.
15.

DG seeks changes in colonization

By Allsann McGloin
Staff Reporter

Delta Gamma Women's Fraternity
requested Wednesday that the Pan-
helleriic Council consider conditions
under which they might rush in order
to colonize successfully following
their decision to delay colonization.

Although sixteen women attended
Delta Garnrria’s interviews and party
last Wednesday night, their represen-
tatives did not think this was a suffi-
cient number to compete with the
existing sororities.

Despite the suspension of Delta

group of women still interested in
participating in DG's rush.

Jane Lee Joyce, Panhellenic Presi-
dent said Delta Gamma has expressed
interest in returning next fall to hold
rush for upperclass women at the
same time as men’s fraternity rush.

Associate Dean of Students and
Dean of Greek Affairs, Leroy C.
“Buddy” Atkins, encouraged the
Panhellenic Council to submit to each
established chapter for vote a propos-
al for Delta Garrima’s colonization.

“I think you need mother group,“
Atkins said, "there actually may be
more interested women out there than

Gamma’s colo.nizmi<.>n.,tl1ere is a~-— showed up» at..that.rneeting- Wedries-

day night.

“If we had had any idea that we
were going to have 250 percent more
of the girls signing up (for Rush)
than expressed interest we would
have started with five, not three
groups," he said.

The Panhellenic Council also
approved a reduction in the ideal
chapter size, lowering it from 75 to
70 women.

A recent Panhellenic survey sho-
wed that 75 percent of active sorority
members think the chapters have
become too large. After the first

formal sorority rush, each chapter
-. numbers about .100: members. v

 

ZONING ‘

from page 1

will be necessary to carry out the
Renaissance and will speed work by
allowing W&L to make changes
without a conditional use permit.

“The university expects to invest
no less that eight million dollars in
renovation," Parsons said. “The
university’s position is that such an
investment ought to be acknowledged
by the extension of the institutional
district.”

Members of the Planning Com-
mission, however, remained skeptical
about extending the institutional dis-
trict. “The benefit of the conditional
use permit is the use of a ten-year
review process," said Sid Brown of
the planning commission.

But Parsons said university plan-
ners would probably review the Mas-

   

l

l

   

  

..

%

By Karsten Amlie

  

i5ECaroline Carter, ’90, Short Hil-
iis, NJ. — “I wanted Bud Light
5-‘to win because I was drinking
laud Light.”

ii

 

i.
h

TALKBACK

What are your thoughts on Budweiser’s victory
in this year’s Bud Bowl?

Bill
Ohio — “Nobody beats the King
of Beers.”

Avoli, ’93, Stubenville,

Victor Levy, ’92, Bay St. Louis,
Miss. — “Three-peat!"

Lee Flemming, ’90, Houston,
TX. — “I think it's outstanding
that such a fine beverage can
succeed in this manner.”

ter Plan with the city within 10
years. “The Master Plan needs re-
view,” Parsons said. “We were here
five years ago, it is likely we will be
back in another five years.

“I think the master plan protects
the public interest better than a condi-
tional use permit,” Parsons said. “I
can't prorriise we’ll be back in five
years, but I don’t think our crystal
ball is that clear."

All but one of the 16 fraternity
houses were built for fraternity use.
The Kappa Sigma house was built as
a single-farnily home and carmot be
renovated as a fraternity house.

Parsons said the university is nego-
tiating with the Zeta Beta Tau house
corporation, who owns the old ZBT

house, to purchase the house for

Photos By Erik Bertlesen

Kappa Sigma.

The Master Plan includes the
expansion of the institutional district
to include Red Square and Henry
Street, Davidson Park between Nel-
son and Washington streets, land on
Lee Avenue occupied by the Sigma
Chi fraternity and newly acquired
property at the Liberty Hall ruins.

Parsons said W&L abandoned the
idea of closing Henry Sweet because
of complaints from downtown mer-
chants, private citizens and the city.
“It would appear that the use of that
street is sufficiently great to argue
against it's closing.”

Parsons said the university will
still consider making the street one
way from Jefferson Street to Main
Street.

       
   
   

Kristen Brown, ’93, Shreveport,
La. — “Bud Light would have
won, but it started snowing in the
third quarter.”

  

Brant Martin, ’92, Fort Worth,
Tx. — “I lost money on it. I was
quite disappointed.”

 

 

  

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

For the Washington and Lee wres-
tling team, the formula is quite
simple. Mix consistency from the
experienced wrestlers and excellent
performances from the freshmen, and
the results will be pleasing.

At least they were last weekend in
the Washington and Lee Invitational.
W&L used the experience of junior
co-captain Larry Pilkey and sopho-
more Peer Soderberg and the youth
of fresh Rich Paini, Doug Lamb and
company to bring home fifth place in
the nine team event.

Head coach Gary Franke thought
the team could have placed higher,
butwas still pleased with the success.

Pilkey, wrestling at 126 pounds,
advancedlall the way to the ﬁnals
before dropping an 11-7 decision to
Sean House, also of Longwood Col-
lege. Pilkey continues to be the
team's most consistent wrestler, and
although he was disappointed that he

SPORTS

lost in the ﬁnal, Franke acknowledged
his ﬁne performance.

Soderberg easily won his first
match, 14-3, before losing in the
second round The 167-pound soph-
omore bounced back to gain a third
place in the consolations.

At 118 pounds, Paini wrestled
extremely well, losing only to even-
tual champion Kevin Haller of Long-
wood College. Paini recorded two
pins, one just 15 seconds into the
match, on his way to winning 6-3 in
the consolation finals to grab third
place. Paini evened his overall season
record to 4-4.

Lamb grappled his way to a 7-5
victory before being ousted by the
eventual runner-up in the 134-pound
class. Lamb failed to place after
being just one point away from the
ﬁnals. Senior co-captain Lee Garlove
recorded an 8-2 victory before he lost
to the eventual runner-up at 142
pounds.

150-pounder Cary Potts, another
freshman, rebounded after an initial
defeat and recorded an 11-2 victory.

~ triangular.

The Fling-tum Phi, February 1, 1990

enerals nab fifth placei lnvitatinal

Classmate Ryland Scott twice proved
victorious while gaining a fourth
place in the 158-pound weight class.
Scott recorded a pinfall at 2:29 and
escaped with his other win by a 1-0
decision.

Longwood College won the team
competition for the second straight
year. This was the thirteenth annual
Washington and Lee Invitational.
Franke said that the tournament went
smoothly and liked the fact that the
teams were fairly evenly matched.

On Feb. 3, the Generals will travel
to Gallaudet and face the host team
and Washington & Jefferson in a
The Generals have faced
both of the teams before earlier this
year. Gallaudet had five place win-
ners at the W&L Invitational. W&J
has ﬁve legitimate All-America can-
didates. W&L ran into W&J in
December at the Lebanon Valley
Tournament.

The Generals’ next home meet
will be Feb. 14, when the Generals
host Longwood College.

Generals find relief in road win;
look to regain early—season magic

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

“We found a new way to spell
relief, and that’s W-I-N,” said Wash-
ington and Lee head basketball coach
Verne Canfield after the Generals
snapped a three-game Old Dominion
Athletic Conference losing streak last
Saturday night at Lynchburg College,
79-67.

Having dropped consecutive con-
ference games to Randolph-Macon,
Hampden-Sydney, and Emory &
Henry, W&L looked as if the ship
was sinking quickly, but according to
Canﬁeld, a seven- minute stretch in
the second half of the Lynchburg
game has got the team back on track.

“We played better against Lynch-
burg. There was a six or seven min-
ute period where four guys off the
bench played with [junior forward]
Craig Hatﬁeld probably the best
defense we’ve played in quite some
time.”

Along with Hatﬁeld during the

 
     

 

 

Special

Open Noon

Rt. 5, Box an
Lexington, VA 24450

Cl5’s, Cassettes, LP’s
No Extra Charge

Monday through Saturday
11 S. Randolph St., Lexington

 

stretch were freshman guard Bryan
Watkins, junior guard Andrew Man-
son, junior center Scott Alrutz and
sophomore forward Courtney Penn.
The unit was responsible for 10 steals
throughout the game. Penn and Wat-
kins each had three.

Canﬁeld was also pleased with the
way the team was able to work the
offense and reverse the ball. “We
worked our offense better because we
reversed the ball, and guess what, our
shooting percentage was better be-
cause of that."

On the night the Generals shot 52
percent from the ﬂoor, including 61
percent in the second half. W&L’s
defensive pressure forced the Hornets
into 22 turnovers and 41 -percent
shooting from the ﬁeld.

W&L was led in scoring by jun-
ior center Chris Jacobs’ 18 points.
Junior point guard Jim Casey chipped
in 16 on four—of-six shooting along
with seven assists. Hatﬁeld totaled 13

points, hitting all four of his shots.

Orders

until 9 p.m.

464-4050

é 

BOBBY BERKSTHESSER
Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking

Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3470

1-800-768-LEHI

 

 

   

Killer

Résumé 

Mounmin Copy-tjrapﬁics

 
 

  

lli».\; .'..ll   - itxil.-p ma
 ° ll: \\ \tl\nIl.ln

   

..lm~.,-. l \\- I).-..«,~v,i.v.~ .
\ll\‘_'lIlll ‘  \\ -‘()3-()‘HH

Super-X Drugs

At Super-X Your Prescription

Needs Are Our Most

College Shopping Square

Important Business.

463-71 26

 

9:20 - Church School

Illlllllllllllll?Iiilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll’

 

R.E. Lee Memorial Church

Sunday Services
8:30 - Holy Eucharist - Rite I

10:30 - Holy Eucharist - Rite II

5:00 - Holy Eucharist - Rite II

6:00 - Undergraduate Group Bible Study

Topic: The Moral Teachings of Paul -
Relationships between Women &
Men, Marriage, and Sexuality

‘willllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllll1

 

Watkins finished with seven points
and Penn added six rebounds. _

The win came just two days after
the Generals second straight home
loss, this one coming to Emory and
Henry 84-68.

In an effort to shake up his team,
Canfield benched the regular starting
line—up of Holton, Casey, Hatﬁeld,
Jacobs and sophomore Mark Melton
and went with some new faces. The
frustrated Generals’ mentor called on
Manson, Penn, Alrutz, junior guard
Pat Gallavan and sophomore center
John Witherington to get W&L off
on the right foot.

For Penn, it was a doubly tough
assignment. Making only his second
start, the 6-4 sophomore was also
asked to guard the ODAC’s leading
scorer in Leon Hill, who came into
the game averaging 24.9 points a
game.

The Wasps jumped out to a quick
4-0 lead, but Gallavan sparked the
Generals to a 7-7 tie with ﬁve points.

CI Please see RELIEF page 5

-9.

Junior Larry iley ls ut to pin his opponent in Saturday's W&L Invitational. Pilkey was W&L’s top ﬁnisher

as he finished second in the 126-pound class. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

Freshman Claire Dudley and
sophomore Jay Smith have a lot
in common. Both hail from
Florida. Both are pre-med
majors. Both are student—athletes
’ in the truest sense of the word,
each maintaining an excellent
grade-point-average. And both
are having outstanding seasons for
the Washington and Lee swim-
ming teams.

During the month of January,
Dudley qualiﬁed for the national
championships in 200—yard breast-
stroke, setting a school records in
that event and two more in the
200-yard and 400-yard individual
medley.

Smith, who competes in 50-
yard, 100-yard and 200-yard free-
style events posted a January
record of 10-0.

For their accomplishments,
Dudley and Smith have been
named The Ring-tum Phi Athletes-

of-the-Month for January.

Dudley’s time of 2:34.45 in
the 200-yard breaststroke ranks
second in the nation this season
and shattered the school record
she had set in December. She
also owns the school record in
the 100-yard breaststroke
(1:l1.14).

Smith, a 1989 honorable men- 1
tion Division III All-American
and an academic All-American,
qualiﬁed for the national cham-
pionships in the 50-yard and 100-
yard freestyle events at the end of
November.

This season Smith has not lost
an individual race, compiling a
21-0 record. He currently ranks
fourth in the nation in the 50-
yard freestyle and fifth in the
nation in the 100-yard freestyle.

Smith, who originally swam
backstroke in high school but
started to specialize in sprint races
last season, holds the conference
record in the 100-yard backstroke.

Focusing on his long-term

  ‘ATHLETES-OF-THE-MONTH‘ 2

goals, Smith said he would like to
finish in the top eight in both his
events at the national champion-
ships in March and earn school
records in the 50-yard and the
100-yard freestyle.

Smith, who is a freshman
dorm counselor, also plays on
W&L’s water polo team in the
fall and was selected for the all-
state team during the Virginia
Championships.

. Smith said he trains for the
season by playing water polo,

' swimming, running and biking.

“I've been a lifeguard for the
past two summers and that gives
me plenty of opportunities to
train,” he said.

Whenever he's not studying or
swimming laps in the pool Smith
said he likes to read, listen to
music and hang out with friends.

Congratulations to Claire Dud-
ley. and Jay Smith, The Ring—tum
Phr Athletes-of-the-Month for
January. 24

Standard 10% Discount
With Student ID.

Right ,

W

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

‘l’

Robby Jones

703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexingon, Va. 24g450_;_‘

Lexington Presbyterian Church
Sunday Morning Worship - 11:00 a.m.

Sunday Evening Bible Study with Dinner:
Fresh 4:00 p.m., dinner 5:00 p.m.
Upperclassmen 5:30 p.m.

All Students Welcome.’

 

o.ppd9,o&Qo*'

FALL & WINTER MERCHANDISE
ON SALE NOW
New Spring items arriving daily

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)463-5988

 

 
     
    

Hairstylist

‘I36 Varner Lane

Directly behind Leggett's
463-3975 ,

\ We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell
‘ Open Evenings
Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

  

 
 

 

25Q-1000 Summer Carr_1p Positions
Available.

Staff Referral Services provides a
network of camps, now hiring,
form the "Keys" to Wisc.-Minn.
One application reaches all camps
via master computer. Applica-
tions at the Career Development
and Placement Office.

AD CORRECTION

The Advertisement In last
weeks Phi congratulating
the Kappa Alpha Theta
pledge class mistakenly
omitted the name of
Staphanle Sauers. Congratu-
Iatlons Stephanie.

 

26 south Main street
Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.
Lexington. Va. 244502523

1st Floor Reid Hall
Come to your Printing Center for:

- FLYERS & POSTERS
- Copylng 8. prlntlng

- Programs

- Newsletters

 
Lexington Lighting

We have Study Lamps, Table Lamps, and Floor Lamps.
Come by!

(703)463-9338 7 Arwaé Kirby 

 HINTINGC

NlEll

463-8448

Custom RESUMES 8. letters
Transparencies

Brochures &\BookIets
Scanning

The Prlntlng Center has added a Macintosh llx, Scanner, and Laser-
Wrlter II to Its service. The Maclntosh wlll rea;LM8-DOS disks. We can
add scanned Images to add to your posters or llyers. stop by and pick
up a pamphlet about this equlpment’s capabllltles.

 

19 South Randolph St.
Lexington. VA 24450
(703)463-6696

(Across from Sycamore Farm Market)

We ship anywhere.

GiftBasl<etsUi4limiteb

Express your love
on Valentine’s Day with a
customized gift basket.

. -.1?’
~ 4%,‘ . LL\ .
 g’ I

.7 -

 

c .-O--U 9

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 1, 1990

RELIEF

’ from page 4

V At that point Carifield began rotating

‘ his regular starters back in the game.
Emory and Henry then sprinted
, out to a 36-17 lead with 5:08 to play
with a balanced rim led by six points
.. from Hill and ﬁve from Cary Perkins.
W&L closed to 10 at 38-28 with
2:16 to play 2:16 on a run sparked
by ﬁve points from Holton. Craig
McLaughlin then scored seven points
in the last two minutes of the half,
including a lay-in at the buzzer to
give the Wasps a 47-32 lead at the
half.
The Generals started strong in the
second half and closed to ten, 53-43,

- on Jacobs’ slam dunk and free throw

with 15:35 to play. At this point the
crowd was in the game and it looked
as if the Wasps needed to take time
to regroup.

But E&H withstood the W&L run
and went on a run of their own,
exploding out to a 77-56 with 4:43 to
play on a basket by Derek Elmore,
who had six points during the run.

Perkins scored 17 points on six-
of-seven shooting to iead the Wasps.
Hill finished with 16, a season low.
He managed just four of his 16 while
being shadowed by Penn.

Jacobs led W&L with 20 points
and Holton was the only other

General in double ﬁgures with 10.

Shooting and ball-handling told the

’ story. Emory and Henry shot 55

percent from the ﬁeld and had 21

I turnovers, while W&L shot just 39

percent and had a season-high 25
.tumovers.
“Emory and Henry played the

rriostgaggressive man-to-man defense

in quite some time," said Cariﬁeld.
“They did a nice job of taking us
out of our offense and we com-
pounded matters by not reacting."
On Tuesday, the Generals stepped
out of the ODAC and travelled to

' Greensboro, NC. for a game with
~ NAIA foe Guilford. The Quakers shot

a blistering 81 percent from the ﬁeld
in the first half (73.5 overall) and
opened up a 42-34 lead. In the ﬁrst

, stanza, W&L shot just 39 percent.

W&L closed the game to 42-38 to
start the second half but never got
any closer as Guilford forced W&L
into 24 turnovers on their way to a
95-80 win. Jacobs continued to lead
the Generals offensively with 31
points. Casey was the only other
General in double ﬁgures with 11.

EIEIDCIDDDDDDDDDDEID

Monarch Pet
Center

Snakes,Bunnies,
Killer Fish and
Tarantulas
123 S. Main St.

EIDCIDEIDEIDDEIEIDEIDDD

WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION
OR BIG SCREEN TV PLUS
RAISE UP TO $1,400 IN JUST
10 DAYS!

Objective: Fundraiser
Commitment: Minimal
Money: Raise $1.400
Cost: Zero Investement

Campus organizations, clubs, frats,
sororities call OCMC at l(800)
932-0528 / 1(800) 950-8472 ext.
10

ciudlotnonlcs

VIRGINIA‘! STEREO SPECIALIST

DENON ALPINE
BOSTON

(600) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

CATHOLIC
CAMPUS
MINISTRY

St. Patrick’s Church

Mass Schedule:
Saturday - 5:00 p.m.
Sunday - 8:00 & 10:30 a.m.
Church Hall discussion every Thursday

3-4 p.m.

PAX Christi Retreat
Feb. 2813 in Lynchburg

Virginia Network of
Catholic Students Retreat
Feb. 9-11 at Eagle Eyrie
For info, call Burr 463-3533

Said Cariﬁeld, “This is the ﬁrst
time in a long time that we've strug-

gled in January and that worries me.

.We're not going to panic. We're just

going to keep working on getting
back into our rhythm, our style of
play. What's important right now is
that we’re on the right track, because
I have every reason to believe that
this team will recover, regroup and
finish strong.”

Tonight, the 12-7, 7-5 Generals
will look to avenge last Thursday's
loss to Emory and Hemy when they
trav l to Emory, Va. Game time is
set r 7:30. WLUR will carry the
game live starting at 7:20. The Gen-
erals return home Saturday to take on
Virginia Wesleyan at 4 p.m. in the
Warner Center with the alumni game
to follow.

BOX SCORES

EMORY AND HENRY (84)

Perkins 6-7 2-2 17. Posey 2-6 0-1 4, Elmore
4-6 0-1 8, Allen 1-4 1-2 3, Moore 1-1 3-4 5, Wit-
char 1-3 1-2 3, Hill 7-17 2-2 16, Wama 4-6 0-2
8, McLaughlin 3-4 4-5 10, Kirtley 5-7 0-0 10.
Totals 34-61 13-21 84.

WASHINGTON AND LEE (68)

Manson 0-0 1-2 1, Gallavan 2-8 2-2 7, With-
e.rington2-40-04,Alrutz 1-20-03,Perin 1-20-
0 2. Holton 4-10 0-1 10, Hughes 0-0 0-0 0, Casey
1-6 3-4 5, Hatﬁeld 3-5 0-2 6. Jacobs 7-13 6-8 20,
Watkins 0-4 3-4 3. Totals 24-61 15-23 68.

Halftime-47-32, E&H. Three-point goals-E&H (3-
9) Perkins 3; W&L (5-17) Holton 2, Melton 1.
Gallavan 1, Alrutz 1. Total fouls-E&H 19, W&L
22. Technical foul-Casey. Rebounds-E&H 37
(McLaughin 6), W&L 39 (Hatﬁeld 12). Assists-
E&H 20 (Perkins, Elmore, Allen 4), W&L 12
(Hatﬁeld 3). A-812.

WASHINGTON AND LEE (I9)

Holton 4-4 3-3 13, Casey 4-6 6-7 16, Jacobs
8-14 2-4 18, Pain 1-5 0-0 2, Hatfield 5-9 3-4 13,
Mariam 0-1 0-1 0, Hughes 00 00 0, Melton 2-3
0-1 4, Gallavan 0-2 0-0 0, Alnitz 2-5 0-0 4,
Watkins 3-5 0-0 7, Wither-ington 1-3 0-1 2. Totals
30-57 14-21 79.

LYNCHBURG (67)

Nolan 1-3 3-5 6, Dezio 1-2 0-0 2, Kalucki 6-
14 0-0 13, Roberson 7-13 34 17, O'Rourke 3-9 2-
4 9, Delp 0-1 0-0 0, Fife 1-1 1-1 3, Marshall 0-0
1-2 1, Dates 3-7 02-2 8. Lassiter 3-10 2-4 8. Totals
25-60 14-22 67.

Halftime-35-30, W&L. Three-point goals-W&L (5-
9) Holion 2. Carey 2. Watkins 1; LC (3-13) Nolan
1, O'Rourke 1, Kalucki 1. Total fouls-W&L 22.
IL 23. Fouled out-Holton, O’Rourke. Rebounds-
W&.L 35 (Hatﬁeld 10), LC 38 (Roberson 10).
Assists-W&L 15 (Casey 7), LC 11 (Nolan 3). A-
230.

-N

From W&L Sports Information

In the first full-scale indoor
track action of the season at the
Lynchburg Invitational, Wash-
ington and Lee claimed three
individual victories.

Senior pole vaulter Phillip
Sampson battled through a
shoulder injury to take first place
with a vault of 12-6. Junior Carl
Gilbert brought home top honors
in the triple jump with a leap of
44-11.

Said men’s head coach Norris
Aldridge, “For this early in the
season and with very little prac-
tice time, I thought we ran well.
It was a good showing. We didn’t
do anything great, but we were
very good for this time of year."

For the women, junior Sarah
Bolte broke her own school
record in the high jump with a
jump of ﬁve feet, three inches
and took first place in the event.

1 SPORTS NOTEBOOK

Said women’s head coach
John Tucker, “Our performancﬁ
Saturday shows great promise for
the future of the indoor and out-
door seasons. We're looking for-
ward to next weekend's all-
women’s invitational at Virginia
Tech.”

The men will race in the VMI
Relays on Feb. 3. The women
race at Virginia Tech Feb. 10.

New track rules

1. No vehicles, bikes. animals
street or cleated shoes on the
track at any time.
2. Joggers and walkers: use lanes
as follows:

Mon. & Tues.--Lanes 5&6

Wed. & Thurs.--Lanes 3&4

Fri., Sat. & Sun.--Lanes 5&6
Do not use lanes 1 and 2 at any
time.
3. Students, faculty and staff have _
priority at all times.

year’s first

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men's
swimming team split its first two
road meets of the season this past
weekend, defeating Shepherd College
56-28 and losing to Gettysburg 105-
96.

“It was a fun trip," said head
coach Page Remillard. “I was
pleased (with the results). We‘are
continuing to make improvements and
I think we’re in a good position for
the rest of the season.”

During the weekend sophomore
Jay Smith won four races, extending
his unbeaten streak to 21-0 this
season. Smith currently ranks fourth
in the nation in the 50-yard freestyle
and fifth in the nation in the 100-
yard freestyle.

Smith led W&L with two wins on
Friday against Shepherd, finishing the

Outstanding performances
mark meet with Shepherd

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

The women’s swim meet against
Shepherd College last Friday resulted
in a victory for Washington and Lee
and some -extraordinary performances
for the women’s swimming team.

Junior Sharon Coleman took six
seconds off her time in the 200 back-
stroke while two of her tearrirnates,
sophomore Jodi Herring and freshman
Stephanie Sauers, turned in promising
times as well. Head coach Page
Remillard is very optimistic about the
upcoming contributions from Herring
and Sauers.

“Stephanie is returning to her
early season speed in the sprint
events. If she is swimming so impres-
sively now during our hardest training
period, then we expect her to just
take off after practices lighten up.
Jodi continues to eat up the distance
events and to make significant im-
provement each week," Rerriillard
said.

Saturday's meet against Gettys-

‘F/We've ‘Expanded Our ‘Facilities I

- PARTY SHIRTS

- T-Shins

- Long Sleeves
- Hats

- Sweat Shirts

TEAM SHIRTS

Satin Jackets
Aprons 8- Totes

- Translers 8: Lettering

Retail 5. Wholesale

BIG DOG GRAPHICS

17 1/2 S. Randolph - Lexington
463-2618

FOR

ONE

* ONE TO KEEP
ONE TO SHARE

Bring in a roll of C41 Color
Film for processing &

. standard size prints for

W&L Bookstore

Feb. 2 - 9. 1990

receive 2 sets of

the price of one.

burg College came up short of a
victory for W&L, but the women met
their realistic expectations.

“We swam great against a great
team," said Remillard. “Gettysburg
is ranked in the nation's top ten, so
it will be a few years before we can
beat them.”

Freshman Claire Dudley pro-
vided one of the meet’s most positive
moments when she qualiﬁed for the
NCAA Division IH meet in the 200
breaststroke event. Rerriillard was
particularly impressed with this occur-
rence because the odds seemed
against it.

“Given the acaderriic and physical
pressure on Claire that week her
qualiﬁcation came as a big surprise.
She says that she just blocked it all
out and kept going hard,” said
Remillard.

W&L will swim against Radford
College next weekend and, according
to Rerriillard, the difference between
the teams will all come down to
training.

Ct Please see SWIM page 6

100-yard freestyle in 50.51 seconds
and the 200-yard freestyle in 1:49.91.

Also collecting first-place finishes
in Friday's meet, were sophomores
Doug Brown and Stuart Towns and
the 400-yard relay team.

Brown won the 1000-yard frees-
tyle with a time of 11:10.03 _while
Towns finished the 200-yard back-
stroke event in 2:08.22. The relay
team, composed of Smith, junior Jim
Dunleavy, sophomore Chip Nordhoff
and freshman Andrew Pearson,
ﬁnished with a time of 3:26.72, beat-
ing the Rams’ relay squad by just
under four seconds.

At Gettysburg on Saturday, the
Generals won eight races, but ended
up losing the meet by nine points.

“We’re winning a lot of events,”
Smith said. “But we don’t have the
depth to follow up on it and get the

Generals have fun on

road swim

seconds and thirds (and earn more
points)."

“Our depth hurt us and it will
continue to hurt us til we get more
guys,” Rernillard ridged. “The way
to solve that problem is through
recruiting and we’re working hard on
that right now."

With only an eight—man roster, the
Generals carmot afford to lose any-
one to an injury or the ﬂu. Yet,
Dunleavy has been battling the ﬂu
and he rriissed last week's practices.

“His performances were sig-
niﬁcantly off (last weekend),” said
Remillard.

Smith and Brown each swam to
two first-place finishes and the 400-
yard relay team set a new Gettysburg
pool record by finishing with a time
of 3:19.94.

Smith picked up victories in the
50-yard freestyle (22.23) and the 100-
yard freestyle (48.71). Brown reg-
istered a pair of victories for the
Generals by winning the 500-yard

and 100-yard freestyles (4:53.6l,
10:15.59).

Rounding out W&L’s individual
wins on Saturday were Nordlioff in
the 200-yard backstroke (2:06.95),
Towns in the 200-yard breaststroke
(2:25.23) and Dunleavy in the 200-
yard freestyle (1:48.19)

With only three meets remaining
to qualify for the national champion-
ships, Rernillard said that up to four
men have a realistic chance of post-
ing qualifying times. Smith has al-
ready qualiﬁed for nationals in the
50-yard and 100-yard freestyle events.

The next meet for the Generals

(now 6-5) is this Saturday at Rad-‘

ford.
“They're a young team. I suspect
our men should win,” Remillard said.

i

C.E. Hardy Jeweler

35 S. Main Street

Announcing a purchase agreement between

Washington and Lee University,
Apple Computer and
OmniComp / Connecting Point

Demonstrations
10:00 am - 3:00 pm
Wednesday, 7 February 1990

Computer Center
Tucker Hall Room 215A

463-4121

I
. ® OmniComp/Connecting
Authorized Apple Education Dealer (804) 971-6771

Come Try a Mac
and receive a FREE Apple

Tee Shirt

(while Supplies last)

Presented By:

Point‘. Eﬂ

COMPUTER CENTERS

  

W&LlFE

Dance classes offered in time for FD

By Pamela Kelley
Entertainment Editor

Looking for interesting ways to
impress your Fancy Dress date? For
$5 Dancing instructor Frank Roupas
will offer ballroom dancing lessons
that could turn you into a dancing
fool!

Roupas will teach students to
waltz, foxtrot, swing, and more. Stu-
dents may come with or without a
partner, so you can even surprise
your date.

Roupas, will hold three classes,
at 7:00 p.m., 8:00 p.m., and 9:00
p.m. in Room 113 of the University

Center on February 12th. In addition,
Roupas encourages the 7:00 p.n1. and
8:00 p.m. classes to attend the next
hour, free for practice. All students
need to do is show up.

Roupas, who has taught dance for
34 years, has become quite well
known in parts of Virginia, through
his dancing courses. He teaches at
various church and community func-
tions and travels to private homes
and some colleges like Roanoke
College and UVa. “I’m the only
dance teacher who makes house
calls,” he boasts.

Roupas has been making house
calls since the beginning of his ca-

W&L-owned pistol

 

By Blair Simmons
Staff Reporter

The United States Historical Soci-
ety is selling exact, full-size repro-
ductions of the ﬂintlock pistol set
owned by both George Washington
and Robert E. Lee.

Of the 1,000 set limited edition,
123 reservations had been made as of
two weeks ago, 37 of which are by
W&L alumni, said Brian Shaw, W&L
communications director.

W&L receives $50 for every set
sold with a minimum guarantee of
$25,000, paid in two installments,
said Shaw. The first installment of
$12,500 has already been received
and the second is expected this fiscal
year.

"If the entire edition sells out, we

could make $50,000," said Shaw.The
burl walnut and solid silver reproduc-
tions cost $2,200 a pair for W&L
alumni, $300 less than the issue
price. Called historic muzzle-loaders,
the working reproductions are free
from licensing requirements.

The original set of pistols is on
display in Lee Chapel and is esti-
mated to be worth over one million
dollars. Each .70 caliber ﬂintlock is
16 inches long with an almost
10-inch-long barrel.

They are believed to have been
made for General Washington in
London between 1766 and 1774 by
Mathias Barker. The highly detailed
hand—engraved ﬂoral patterns, lintel
borders and acorn pattern are typical
of quality silver work from the
mid-1700s.

Among the three surviving pair of

The Ring-tum Phl, February 1, 1990

reer, and has been offering classes at
UVa for the last 13 years. Roupas
said he got the idea to offer ballroom
dancing classes at colleges when a
UVa student, who was interested in
classes, but too busy to travel to
Roanoke, had him come to Charlot-
tesville. He says he is now in heavy
demand for classes there.

When an interested W&L student
could not come to Roupas six years
ago, he traveled to Lexington as well.
Roupas thought that the classes would
not fare well at the, then all-male,
college. However, “It went over
big!” he says. He’s been returning
ever since, although he couldn't make

it back to teach last year.

Roupas has a very positive atti-
tude about the lessons, and says that
he has never had any failures at
dancing, because he works with indi-
viduals until they leam. His students
must, however practice at least ten
minutes a day, so they will not forget
their new skills.

The Dancemaster also offers a
piece of free advice: “Ballroom danc-
mg will keep you happy and
healthy.”

The classes are open to anyone.
For more information about Frank
Roupas and his course offerings, call
(703) 344-2114.

set reproduced

Washington's pistols, their history
traces the link between General
Washington and General Lee.

General Washington married Mar-
tha Dandridge Custis, a young widow
with two children. Later, when her
son died, the Washington's adopted
his two children.

General Washington gave the pair
of pistols to his adopted son, George
Washington Parke Custis, whose
daughter, Mary Anna Randolph Cus-
tis, married General Lee at Arlington
House in 1831. George Boling Lee,
the grandson of General Lee, gave
the pistols.to W&L.

The project began three years ago
when the Alumni Board approved the
United States Historical Society's
proposal to reproduce the pistol, said
Shaw.

They borrowed the pistols for a

 

SWIM

from page 5

“The question is: who works the
hardest in the middle of the season?
We chose to compete in 200-yard
events rather than 100-yard and have
received protestations from Radford.
Their opposition makes us want to
swim the 200 even more. We’re
banking on Radford being under-

' prepared since they wanted to go

with the short distance for some
reason,” said Remillard.

The team is keeping an eye on
the Atlantic Championships and the
last couple of weeks have included
intensely grueling training.

Remillard wants the women to get
through the next two meets before

DO IT

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695

3

Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

they rest a little. He is optimistic
about wins against Radford and Mary
Washington.

“I would like to see us have a
three-meet winning streak,” he said.
“At this point in time, though, the
Championships almost become more
important.”

Didn’t win the Bahamas trip?

short time to begin the reproduction
process but took a full year to devel-
op the final product, having to con-
stantly come to Lee Chapel to com-
pare them with the originals.

The reproductions have been
available to W&L alumni and Histori-

cal Society members, rnainly collec-
tors and historians, since the fall.

"We've gotten a very good re-
sponse. They are all hand-made so
we can't have too many orders at
once, anyway," said James Robinson,
of the United States Historical Soci-
ety.

The United States Historical Soci-
ety is a for-proﬁt organization spe-
cializing in creating and manufac-
turing historic reproductions, Shaw
said.

  

,,

SENIORS

* Cap & Gown
to keep!

Announcements
to order!

At the Bookstore
Feb. 5, 6, 7

See you there!

' Only $16.00
and you may charge!

 

She unloosed

the ribbon. . .
gently pulled the
thin covering aside
and dropped it

to the ﬂoor.

She looked at him,
eyes wild
with anticipation.

At last, with

ribbon and paper
torn away.

she opened
hercaravansglftbox

“Happy Valentine's, ”
he smiled.

CARAVANS

121 West Nelson Street
Lexington

464-3500

Open Daily 10AM -6 PM
Sunday Noon - 6 PM

  WEEKLY CALENDAR

Board of Trustees Meeting.

MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY SUPERDANCE: Student
Activities Pavilion.

FILM SOCIETY: Swimming to Cambodia (USA, 1987).
directed by Jonathan Demme.
Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

7 p.m.

8 p.m.

 

Board of Trustees Meeting.

OPERA BROADCAST: La Giooonda (Ponchielli).
WLU R-FM (91.5).

BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Virginia Wesleyan.

1:30 p.m.

4 p.m.

Warner Center.
6:30 p.m.
7 p.m.

8 p.m.

Church.
8 p.m.

MQNIZAIJEBBSIABIE
7:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

5 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

5 p.m.
I 7:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

 

5 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

BASKETBALL: Alumni Game. Warner Center.

MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY SUPERDANCE: Student
Activities Pavilion.

FAIR CONCERT: Rockbridge Chamber Chorus, Willian
McCorkle, director; soloists Carrington Wise,
Lawrence Evans, and Michael Henry. Music by
Bach, Poulenc, and Monteverdi. St. Patrick's

FILM SOCIETY: Swimming to Cambodia (USA. 1987).
Classroom "A,' Lewis Hall.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WRESTLING: Gallaudet
Quadrangular; SWIMMING (M&W):
Radford; INDOOR TRACK: V.M.I. Relays.

Drug Awareness Week (Feb. 5 - 9).

DRUG AWARENESS LECTURE: Dr. Fred Frick '74,
director of drug testing and clinical consultant for
the Women's International Tennis Association.
Lee Chapel. Public invited.

LECTURE: “Contemporary Political Reform in the
Soviet Union,‘ Vladimir Brovkin, department of
government, Oberlin College. Northen Auditorium,
University Library. Public invited.

CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: 'Addictionology,' Dr. Fred
Flick '74. Room 401, Howe Hall.
Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.

CONTACT LECTURE: "Holidays in Hell," P.J.
O'Rourke, contemporary writer, international
affairs desk chief for "Rolling Stone" magazine.
Lee Chapel. Public invited.

BIOLOGY SEMINAR: "A Zoologist's View of Oxford
(and Prague)," Cleveland P. Hickman, W&L
professor of biology. Room 305, Parmly Hall.
Refreshments at 4:30. Public invited.

DRUG AWARENESS PANEL: "Nuts and Bolts of Drug
Testing in the Workplace,“ William E. Toomey,
Scott S. Cairns, attorneys, McGuire, Woods, Battle
& Boothe. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

TELFORD LECTURE: "Journalism as Narrative Art and
Political Ritual,‘ James W. Carey, dean of the
College of Communications, University of Illinois,
Urbana-Champaign. Northen Auditorium, Universit‘ -
Library. Public invited. '

TUCKER LAW FORUM: Marivonne Basten, counsel to
Advantage International, will talk on sports law.
Classroom "A,' Lewis Hall. Public invited.

BASKETBALL: Generals vs. "Mary Washington)
College. Warner Center.

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

 

GAMES, HOBBIES It CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Sat. 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

31 S. Main St., Lexington

Best Fundraisers On Campus

Is your lratemlty. sorority. or club Interested In
eamlng 31,000+ for a one—week , on-campus
marketing project? You must be well4)rgan-
lzed and hard working. Cell Jenny or Myra at
(800)592-21 21 .

 
 

  
   

 

463-3355

  

 

Weatherby°’ °Remington®
Browning® 0 Ilossbergi’
We will not be-undersold

    

 

16E. Nelson St., Lexington

by anyone!
fr’ m
LEXINGTON Sc°peM°um&B°r.
Sighting with purchase.
Best prices on Hunting
Equipment & clothing tool
Aerobics 0 Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun! .~
18 E. Nelson St.

Lexington 463-1800

Washington & Lee’s 12th Annual
Muscular Dystrophy SUPERDANCE

V Feb. 2-3, 7-1 a.m.

FRIDAY - SATURDAY - —
Battle of the Bands 2nd place Battle of the Bands
, Winner of Battle of the Bands
Black & Blue
Let’s Active
The Pavilion

Friday - $4.00 DOOR PRIZES!
Saturday - $6.00
Weekend — $8.00 LIVE DRIVE!

 

