Arch »
4 372. ‘r 9
K552
v . ‘Eff
HO ~ ll-i

"-Wat. =.;wivr;i4«1~’4 I V  .. V
‘wvaafwaiiea UH‘. ‘W 

ifﬁmwaﬁiﬁd

Clip: ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

VOLUME 89, NO. 14

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 18, 1990

A head above

W&L's Craig Hatfield grabs a rebound Thursday night as
Roanoke College players look on. The Generals spanked the

Maroons 84-75 at the Warner Center. See the story on page
6. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

ODK to induct 21;
classes shortened

Wilson is speaker

By Chris Baradel
Staff Reporter

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national honorary
fraternity started here at Washington and Lee in
1914 by a group of twelve students, will tap
21 students and four honorary members as part
of the Founders Day celebration tomorrow.

ODK is an organization that seeks to
recognize superior leaders within the university
and bring them together to work on projects for
W&L and the city of Lexington.

The names of the twenty one-new members
are a closely guarded secret and will not be
announced until the actual ceremony tomorrow.
The new members were notiﬁed before Christ-
mas so they could make any necessary
arrangements, said Dean of Students Lewis G.
John, the faculty secretary for ODK.

According to John, membership in the
organization comes in recognition of leadership
in ﬁve separate categories:

- scholastic achievement (all members must
be in the top 35% of their class);

- athletics;

- social, service and campus government;

- journalism, speech and mass media;

- creative and performing arts.

John said that last spring the ODK selection
committee, comprised of student members and
four voting faculty members, tapped seven
rising seniors who will also be recognized in
tomorrow's ceremony.

This fall, the comrriittee tapped the group of
21 students: five juniors, twelve seniors, and
four tliird-year law students.

ODK used to tap members only in the fall,
but added the spring selection two years ago.

for Founders Day

Here is tomorrow's adjusted class

schedule:
Hour Time
A 8 a.m. - 8:45 a.m.
B 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 am.
C 9:40 a.m. - 10:25 a.m.
D 10:30 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
E 11:20 a.m. - 12:05 p.m.

ASSEMBLY 12:15 a.m. - 1:45 p.m.
F 1:50 a.m. - 2'35 p.m
G 2:40 a.m. - 3 25 p.m.
H 3:30 a.m. - 4.15 p.m.
l 4:20 a.m. - 5:05 p.m.
J 5:10 a.m. - 5'55 p.m.

“It provides a larger nucleus of members
during the beginning of the year," John said.
“The circle can be more active and plan events
throughout the year. In the old days, there were
only four or five undergraduates [each fall] to
plan events and elect new members."

ODK President J. Wayne Burris said that
some activities ODK will be involved in during
the upcoming months are: a panel discussion
about cultural diversity at W&L and the
uriiversity’s role in promoting it; a leadership
seminar for student leaders at Lexington High
School; a leadership seminar at W&L this spr-
ing for the new class officers, new Executive
Committee members, and new fraternity and
sorority presidents.

Already this year ODK sponsored the
discussion about ﬂag-burning led by Edwin
Yoder and held the 75th Anniversary
celebration of ODK national here in the fall,
according to John.

D Please see ODK page 5

Fraternity workshop
follows hazing charge

By Chuck Broll
Staff Reporter

Last week’s fratemity-wide leadership work-
shop, sponsored by Phi Kappa Sigma, was “the
positive result of a negative incident,” Phi Kap
President Brooks Pettus said.

Methods of updating pledge activities, food
programs and leadership techniques were the
focal points of the workshop, which was at-
tended by Iriterfraterriity Council President
Kevin Nash, Associate Dean of Students Leroy
C. “Buddy" tkins and most of the presidents
or officers of &L's fraternities.

According to Pettus, an activity that was
part of Phi Kap’s pledge program last winter
was considered an act of hazing by representa-
tives of Phi Kap‘s national headquarters.

“The incident was handled internally and
the problem was immediately exorcised. It
ultimately served as a platform for radical
change, giving Phi Kap the chance to create a
positive and creative pledge education pro-
gram,” Pettus said.

“It’s time for attitudes to change, and
programs like this can only help,” Pettus said.

W&L’s first sorority Rush to conclude

—
By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

Bids from Washington and Lee
University's three established sorori-
ties will be extended Saturday, con-
cluding W&L’s first sorority Rush.

Rush began Sunday night with
Open Houses in the University Cen-
ter. Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa Kap-
pa Garrirna and Chi Omega, as well
as Delta Gamma, participated in the
first night of Rush.

Delta Gamma took part on the
first night, but its national representa-

tives will return Wednesday to con-
duct their own colonization.
Monday, the rushees attended
parties in the University Center and
Dupont Hall to watch skits presented
by each sorority.
Rushees were invited to attend the

sororities’ ‘ ‘sisterhood" and “pre-
ference” arties Wednesda and

_ P Y
Friday.

“Exactly a year ago, we were
going through Rush. It’s amazing
how far sororities have come to put
on a good rush," said Courtney
Payne, Panhellenic Membership Selec-
tion Chairman.

Leslie has chronic

T
By Blair Simmons and
Roschelle Mack
Staff Reporters

Golf Coach Emmett G.“Buck”
Leslie was released from Roanoke
Memorial Rehabilitation Hospital
Saturday after eight days of treatment
for chronic leukemia.

Leslie, 64, said he went to Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital for a physical
because he had been feeling fatigued.

He was immediately sent to
Roanoke for further tests.

“I hadn't been in for a routine
check-up for about 18 years. I know
it's dumb... but I always felt fine
until recently,” he said.

On Jan.5 he was diagnosed as
having chronic leukemia and was
admitted to the rehabilitatioh hospital
in Roanoke, he said. He was treated
with chemotherapy medication for
three days and is not expecting to
need radiation treatment.

Leslie was also diagnosed as a
diabetic with an enlarged spleen.

Unlike acute leukemia, chronic
leukerriia does not arise abruptly and
progress rapidly. While survival is
measured in months for acute
patients, chronic leukemia is not as
dramatic and carries fewer complica-
tions. »

Leslie is currently being moni-
tored as an outpatient at Stonewall
Jackson Hospital where doctors are

“We’re very excited about it
simply because it's our first Rush.
We hope that the freshman women
find their place at Washington and
Lee through the sororities and be-
come more uniﬁed," said Pamela
Kelley, a member of Kappa Alpha
Theta.

Freshman Walton Eagan said,
“One of the things I was most im-
pressed with is that this is the first
year they’re doing this...they seem
like old pros.”

Rush counselors, or “Rho Chis,”
were chosen from each of the three
sororities to advise the 116 rushees

leukemia

T
Shlllington recovering
 see page 4

trying to stabilize his blood sugar
level. He will return to Roanoke on
Jan. 26 for a check-up.

A physical education teacher at
Washington and Lee since 1960,
Leslie is planning to coach the golf
team again this spring. He is unsure
about resuming instruction of his P.E.
classes.

“I’ve been getting lots of phone
calls and some flowers and cards.
It’s just been beautiful.

“I feel good,” he said. “My
doctor even told me I can play golf
if I want to."

“It should have positive effects on the presi-
dents and officers who attended.”

Phi Kap pledge trainer Michael Applebaum
outlined the new pledge program at the worksh-
op, sayirig it included “a good deal” of
community service projects. Applebaum also
said pledges are expected to use and learn from
“Skull Sessions,” the Phi Kap national book.

Other outlined activities to create a more
successful pledge program include a pledge-act-
ive football game and big brother-little brother
activities such as a barbecue, a trip to George-
town and a Virginia Lancer’s hockey game.

Phi Kap pledge Reed Duncan said he does-
n’t know what pledges did in the past, but he
does know that what they are doing now has
made a difference in the community.

“Providing social services for the com-
munity has been an overall positive ex-
perience,” Duncan said.

Junior Phi Kap Tom Costello agreed.

“We can look to see a pledge program
geared more toward community service rather
than just serving the brothers. Community
service is a good example in showing the
pledges how their efforts are needed and ap-

D Please see SEMINAR page 5

Saturday

who participated in formal Rush.

These “Rho Chi’s,” in addition
to the Panhellenic officers and deleg-
ates, disaffiliated themselves from
their sororities outside of formal
meetings until Rush is over.

The “Rho Chi’s” disaffiliated
themselves from their sororities so
that the rushees would “have some-
one to answer their questions without
bias,” said Kate Hanley, who is a
rush counselor. .

Payne explained, “Our duty during
rush is to serve the Panhellenic As-
sociation, not our individual sorori-
tv.”

 
Corrections

A story in last week’s Phi
about the Jan. 8 Executive Com-
mittee meeting repeated an error
that appeared originally in the EC
minutes. Robert Martin was
appointed to the Constitutional
Revisions Comrriittee, riot Robert
Tompkins.

Also, a tirneline detailing the
history of sororities at W&L
incorrectly stated the Panhellenic
Association’s status on the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee. The
PHA has a voice on all issues
and a vote on those issues affect-
ing the PHA.

The Phi apologizes for the
confusion.

Hanley said many of the women
in her group of ‘rushees were worried
about the selection process.

Sunday and Monday nights, all
women who registered for Rush could
attend each of the four Open Houses.
However, rushees had to be invited to
Wednesday and Friday nights’ parties.

At “Preference” parties, the
rushees fill out a “preference card,”
placing the sororities in order of their
preference. The number of bids each
sorority may extend is calculated by
the number of rushees who fill out
preference cards divided by the three
sororities.

Some of the rushees may choose
not to fill out a preference card and
go through Delta Garrirna’s rush the
following week.

Panhellenic rules prohibit sorority
members from participating in social
functions during the week of Rush.

Payne said that each time a soror-
ity member fails to abide by the rule,
it will count as an infraction against
that sorority.

Rushees also have been asked by
Panhellenic not to participate in social
functions as a courtesy to the active
members, although they do not come
under Panhellenic jurisdiction.

George faces Pringle
in runoff for EC post

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Stephen George and John “Jack”
Pringle will see their names on the
ballot once again as they run-off for
the seat of senior representative on
the Executive Committee tomorrow.

The Voting Regulations Board
posted the tally of yesterday’s 217
votes. Pringle led the trio with 87,
George and Todd Peppers trailing
with 67 and 63 respectively.

The constitution dictates that "If
no candidate has a majority in the
general election for one position, a
rtm—off election shall be held between

the two candidates receiving the
largest number of votes...." Voting
for that run-off will be tomorrow
from 8 a.m. to 4 pm., according to
the VRB.

The senior representative seat was
vacated when Judson Parker resigned
the role in November. The Ring-tum
Phi on Nov. 16 reported his with-
drawal from Washington and Lee for
personal reasons.

“The senior rep position is ex-
tremely important,” said EC Vice
President Jonathan Sheinberg, “and
either of the two candidates I'm
confident will do a fine job.” Shein-
berg wished luck to both.

 

  

OPINION

 

Swing on a star

When Washington and Lee’s men fall in line,
we're going to win again another time.

For W&L I yell, I yell, I yell,
and for the u-ni-ver-si-ty I yell like hell.

At football games, the “W&L Swing” gets fans out of
their seats. In space, it wakes the Space Shuttle Colum-
bia’s astronauts to start another day.

It’s customary for Mission Control in Houston, to wake
the astronauts with a rousing tune. If all went as planned,
this moming’s tune was the “W&L Swing.”

Astronaut G. David Low graduated from Washington
and Lee in 1978 with a degree in physics and engineer-
ing, and is honoring his alma mater by taking some items
peculiar to the University into space with him.

Aboard Columbia is a copy of the White Book and the
Mission Statement. Also, a W&L hat, t—shirt and bumper
sticker are on the shuttle.

Even in his stardom, Low remembered his school and
its fight song.

Sadly enough, however, the swing is in danger of
falling by the traditional wayside. If the choruses ever
quit singing the swing, still fewer students would know
the words.

Other schools use the “W&L Swing” at their football
games. University of Miami’s Band of the Hour has been
known to play the tune before the Hurricanes take the
field.

It’s sad to think that our school’s ﬁght song faces the
prospect of becoming something that used to be tradition-
al at Washington and Lee.

At the very least, the “W&L Swing” will be known as
the tune Mission Control used to wake Columbia’s astro-
nauts on the program’s 33rd mission.

Ours and yours

The Ring-tum Phi, as the Washington and Lee student
newspaper, feels an obligation to publish each and every
student-opinion piece it receives, and we encourage
students and other members of the W&L community to
submit letters or “My Views.” However, we reserve the
right to edit any and all submissions for reasons of taste,
libel, clarity or length.

The Phi is no more our newspaper than it is yours. The
quality and diversity of its opinion page are dependent on
your submissions.

Quote of the week

Ouch! — “The Streaker” at the Roanoke game, after
he crashed into a glass door trying to escape from
Associate Athletic Director Dick Miller.

LETTERS

Member calls PiKA
‘active and leading’

I would like to report that Pi Kappa Alpha National Fraternity has
readmitted several members to active status at Washington and Lee
University. Pi Kappa Alpha has once again resumed an active and
leading role at Washington and Lee University. _

I would also like to remind fellow students that those on early-alumni
status were not accused of any wrong-doing by the national fraternity. ,

Kevin L. Carl ‘92
Active Member, Pi Kappa Alpha

The Fling-tum Phi, January 18, 1990

--1:
\

“

Owning up to King’s ‘Dream’

MY VIEW
By Leslie R. Smith

When the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. spoke
those provocative words in his “I have a dream”
speech, he was speciﬁcally addressing the social,
political, economic and educational injustices
prevailing in America at that time; and which,
despite the valiant efforts by many institutions, still
exist today. Although it would be unfair to deny
that blacks have overcome some of the social,
political, economic and educational barriers con-
fronting them during the civil rights era, America
has quite a ways to go before full reparations are
made. Perhaps, put in the proper historical perspec-
tive, those of you who were too young to remem-
bet, or not yet born, the burgeoning of the civil
rights movement, will see that the Dream cannot
yet be realized.

The creed that “all men are created equal"
might go without saying today. But, it was only
133 years ago that the U.S. Supreme Court held
that blacks were not citizens of the United States,
and that the language in the Declaration of Inde-

pendence did not include blacks. Then, in 1868,
when Congress in the 14th Amendment, declared
blacks were citizens, the Supreme Court intervened
again to permit states to arbitrarily segregate
citizens on the basis of race under the pretense that
public facilities and accommodations were “sepa-
rate 'but equal.” Similarly, when the right to vote
was granted by the l5th Amendment in 1870,
states devised numerous schemes to specifically
keep blacks from exercising that right.

These injustices went uncorrected for many
years. Indeed, it was not until 1954, some 58 years
after the institutionalization of the “separate but
equal" doctrine, that the Supreme Court held the
doctrine had no place in the field of education.

. Furthermore, it was not until 1965 that the Voting

Rights Act coupled with an additional measure
taken by Congress ensured that no state would
deprive a person of the right to vote because of
race — some 95 years after the passage of the 15th
Amendment. In spite of Congress and the court's
acknowledgement of these injustices, something
more had to be done to remedy their effects.

To this end, affirmative action-type programs
were implemented with two principal goals in
mind: 1) to place blacks on an equal footing with

their white counterparts; and 2)to make reparation
for the past wrongs. Yet, even with these affirm-
itive action-type programs, the social, political,
economic and educational disparities between the
races are still quite evident.

Thus, although Mr. Lake’s view of the Dream,
which appeared in last week’s Phi, may be laud-
able and achievable at some point in the future, the
Dream is far from being fully realized. Surely, it
will take more than two decades to fully disman-
tle a system of injustice that existed for more than
four centuries.

Accordingly, it is my view that until we can no
longer say that today’s black college students are
first or second generation college graduates, the
dream cannot be realized; until we can look around
the major colleges and universities and see more
that one black tenured faculty member, the dream
cannot be realized; until we can no longer say
that there is a black economic base but no black
business in a given area, the dream cannot be
realized; until the criminal justice system treats
black and white suspects alike, the dream cannot
be realized. This, in my view, is the indicia of
America owning up to her creed that "all men are
created equal.”

Panama: ‘a resounding success’

Gllrr Ring-tum lﬂlri

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Editors .................................................. ..Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison
Associate Editors ................................... ..James Lake, Genienne Mongno
Assignment Editor Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor .. ...Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor .......................................................... ..Pamela Kelley
Sports Editor Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor Alesha Priebe
Editorial Cartoonist Jeff Woodland

Business Manager Anne Dysart
Advertising Manager  Iason Kelley
Circulation Managers ................................. ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-turn Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letter's and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity. ‘

The Ring—tum Phi
Post Office Boxi899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

MY VIEW
By Scott Bahrke

Now that Manuel Noriega sits in
a U.S. jail awaiting trial, and the
82nd Airborne has triumphantly para-
chuted back into Fort Bragg, N.C.,
we can assess the effects of -our
recent intervention in Panama. Opera-
tion Just Cause was clearly a re-
sounding success. The American sol-
diers achieved their objectives with
minimal losses. Yes, Mr. Adams,
whose column appeared in last
week’s Phi, was right — December
1989 will be remembered as the
“Panamanian Christmas" — the year
U.S. soldiers gave a large gift called
“freedom” to the Panamanian people.

Mr. Adams, however, would have
withheld that gift in favor of other

marine, and surveillance capacity to
“blockade all regions containing
potential allies of the resistance.”
The last time we blocked Cuba, the
United States and the Soviet Union
almost plunged the world into nuclear
destruction. The political, military and
economic ramifications of blockading
all regions of resistance far outweigh
the cost of our recent actions in
Panama and make Mr. Adams’
proposal unwise at best.

He also hints at legalizing drugs
to solve 'our problems. I don’t see
any corollary -» between legalizing
drugs in the United Sates and the
right to exercise self-deterrnination in
Panama.

One of the only viable alternatives
we had was to support a coup at-
tempt by Panamanian forces. We lost
one promising opportunity and
couldn’t accurately predict if or when

Therefore, considering Noriega’s de-
claration of war, the vicious attack
on an American serviceman, and the
possibility of more attacks, the initia-
tion of the attack on Noriega’s re-
gime ~by U.S. servicernan was both
justifiable and timely.

Sadly, the actions cost several
hundred lives, 24 of which were
American soldiers. The opposition we
faced in Panama, however, was not
from armed civilians that performed
guerilla actions against the soldiers
like the Viet Cong did in Vietnam, it
was from remnants of the Pana-
manian Defense Force (PDF) and
some of the thugs of the “Dignity
Battalions" (DingBats). Although
there was resistance, most sur-
rendered. Many were substantially
relrired by the new government. They
alerted U.S. troops to the location of
pockets of resistance and military

soldiers as they patrolled the streets.

Unlike the Vietnam War, the
action in Panama enjoyed congres-
sional and popular support. The poll
taken by Cable News Network
showed that 90 percent of Americans
supported President Bush's decision
to overthrow Noriega. Finally, by
sending over 20,000 troops to
Panama, Bush ensured that the situa-
tion would be resolved and the troops
would return quickly.

Bush should be congratulated on
a job well done, and the soldiers who
fought there should be honored as
heroes. Second Lt. Jon Misert, a 1988
W&L graduate, was one of those
heroes called upon to fight for free-
dom. Let us also remember the 24
Americans who gave the ultimate gift
to the Panamanian people.

Kevin Nash, J. Wayne Burris,
David Allen and Brian Snedeker also

actions. He proposed using our naval, another

opportunity would _ arise.

.supplies and cheered the American

contributed to this opinion.

Peace Dividend masks the deficit

’ MY VIEW

By Damon Fensterman

As the Berlin Wall crumbles down and nations
all over Eastern Europe turn to democracy,
Washington is abuzz with talk of the “Peace
Dividend." America is supposed to prosper because
of the defense cuts which will result from a more
relaxed defense posmre. But as usual, Congress is
ready to spend the money before they have it in
hand.

The problem isn't necessarily that the expected
peace won’t come, although it is by no means
certain. Even if complete world peace is
impossible, it seems likely that we will see a
noticeable reduction in tensions between East and
West over the next 10 years. Of course, there are
no guarantees. The execution of Ceaucescu
indicates that not all of the Eastern European
upheavals are “democratic." Moreover, the recent
military intervention in Armenia suggests that the
Soviet Union is willing to go but so far in
allowing freedom. There is reason to be optimistic,
but we must season our outlooks with caution.

But the difficulty with the Peace Dividend is
not that we won't cut back on transatlantic defense

With defense spending
currently around $300
billion, we would have to
cut defense by over_haIf just
to wipe out this year’s
national defecit.

forces. We probably will. The real problem is with
a fundamental misunderstanding about where the
money came from originally. There are three
fallacies to the current popular thinking about the
so-called Peace Dividend.

First, there aren’t really any savings from
defense cuts until we stop running enormous
budget deficits. Since we borrowed part (I say part
because defense spending isnot the only cause of
the deficit) of the money for the current level of
defense, we should pay it back as we cut back on
defense.

Second, the actual cuts that will be made will
not be significant enough to rearrange the
economy. With defense spending currently around
$300 billion, we would have to cut defense by
over half just to wipe out this year’s national

deficit -— even more to create a surplus. The cuts
resulting from decreased tensions will be nowhere

I near this level, especially in the short run.

The third fallacy is the hidden assumption
behind our politicians’ reasoning. Really, all
Congress wants to do with the Peace Dividend is
spend it. They figure, since the money has already
been borrowed, why give it back now? The law of
inertia applies to Congress as well. Once a law or
policy is in place, it tends to stay there. Or put
another way, it's easier to pass legislation than to
eliminate it. Also, a cut in spending means a
reduction in fiscal stimulus. With the economy on
tenuous footing, congressmen don’t want to take
any chances with their careers.

The problem with the budget is not big defense
spending. It’s big spending, period. Certain political
groups take great delight in pointing out that the
Reagan defense buildup was the cause‘ of the
deficit, but their reasoning on the Peace Dividend
betrays their true stance. If we merely spend what
we cut back on defense, we end up with the same
size deficit and a defense sector that is a smaller
percentage of the budget. What’s the cause of
deficits then? Quite simply, the cause is the simple
textbook cause — namely, that government
spending exceeds tax receipts. Or in my opinion,
the government simply spends too much.

 

  

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Debate over dollars again topped
the agenda at this week’s meeting of
the Executive Committee.

The EC unanimously approved
last week’s proposal that the Board
of Trustees raise the student activities
fee from $105 to $120 — $25 of
which will go toward the mortgage
on the student activities pavilion.

Two successive approvals were
required before the proposal could go
to the Board of Trustees. EC Presi-
dent Willard Dumas will now present
the proposal to the Board's Develop-
ment Committee on Feb. 2.

Junior Rep. John Fialcowitz, who
last week voted against the increase,
asked EC Vice President Jonathan
Sheinberg why $15 would be appro-
priate rather than some lesser amount.

Sheinberg and EC President Wil-
lard Dumas said $15 would roughly
meet the budget ‘requests entered by
student organizations this year and
would not create a surplus, consider-
ing next year’s requests will likely
increase.

The increase comes in the wake
of financial difficulties that prompted
President John Wilson to grant $16,-
000 to the EC this year. Dumas said
Wilson asked the EC to consider an
increase in the fee.

Dumas said he spoke to a number
of students about the increase and
their response was generally apathetic.
He said he expects a positive
response from the board.

The EC also discussed the $4,000
minimum balance that the Publica-
tions Board is currently required to
maintain in reserve.

According to second-year law
Rep. Mark Cobb, the Publications
Board is approaching that minimum,
which is required to help publica-
tions in the event of financial dif-
ficulties. Dumas said that the con-
stitution requires a $2,500 minimum,
and the EC could lower the board’s
minimum $1,500.

The extra money would most
likely be made available to one of
the publications requesting money
from the EC, Dumas said. The Polit-
ical Review has requested $1,700;
increased costs have left The Calyx in
need of $2,000, and Cobb said The
Washington and Lee Journal of Sci-
ence will ask for $950.

Cobb agreed to look into whether
the $4,000 minimum is needed.

Joei Dyes presented a request to
the EC for $250 for the fourth annual
Lip Synch, a benefit for Students
Against Multiple Sclerosis and the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society.

Under the direction of W&L Food
Service Director Gerald Darrell, Lip
Synch is set for the night of Jan. 26
at the General Headquarters. All
proceeds will benefit the MS Society,
said Dyes.

Dyes said Darrell would like the
EC’s assistance to help pay for the
more expensive prizes offered this
year. The prizes range from $150 and
two Fancy Dress tickets for first
place to $25 and one FD ticket for
third place. A fourth—place prize has

The Ring-tum Phi, January 18, 1990

EC appfdves fee increase

not yet detemrined.

Dumas suggested that funding for
the prizes be taken from the money
raised, as the EC does not normally
use student funds for charitable con-
tributions. Third-year law Rep. David
Anthony added that the EC’s already
constrained budget for this year may
make a charitable contribution espe-
cially difficult to allocate.

Dyes said the EC has provided
money for the event in past years.

Dyes also suggested that the EC
enter the contest, saying it would
encourage other organizations to
enter, thereby raising more money.

Admission to the GHQ that night
will be $3, Dyes said. The cost for
each group to enter is $25. Groups
may sign up from Jan. 22 to Jan. 24,
11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Evans Dining
Hall and in front of the Coop; 5:30
to 6:30 p.m. at Evans Dining Hall;
and 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at Carol
Calkins’ office.

Petitions with at least 150 signa-
tures for the Big Three offices -— EC
president, vice president and secretary
— are due Feb. 5, followed by an
election on Feb. 12 and a run—off on
Feb. 15.

The EC adjourned Monday’s
meeting with best wishes for the
speedy recovery of Chemistry Prof.
Keith Shillington. According to Prof.
Michael Pleva, Shillington entered
hospital care on Jan. 10 with symp-
toms which may have resulted from
a stroke.

The EC also wished Coach Em-
met “Buck” Leslie a speedy re-
covery. Leslie has chronic leukemia.

 

l

I . .
What’s Cookin’
New managers in the W&L Food Service depart-
ment are, from left to right, Chef William B. King;

New faces jump in food line

 

From the W&L News Office

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Food Service has announced
three changes in the management of
Evans Dining Hall and the Co-op.

Charles Durm retired as chef on
Dec. 31 after 20 years at Washington
and Lee. The manager of Evans
Dining Hall, Todd Morse, resigned in
December to accept the position of
food service department computer
analyst at Syracuse University. Rich-

  

ard Armstrong, manager of the Co-
op, also resigned in December to
accept a position at James Madison
University.

Durm's successor is William B.
King, former executive chef at the
University of Virginia. A graduate of
the University of Maine, King receiv-
ed his certificate in professional cook-
ing and food service standards from
Purdue University in 1989. At U.Va.,
King also served as director of spe-
cial events and catering.

Succeeding Morse is John T.

John  Taffe, Evans Dining Hall manager; and
Gail Dixon, Co-Op Manager.

Taffe, who completed professional
training as a baker, butcher, and ap-
prentice chef before attending Paul
Smitl1’s College in New York to
learn hotel and restaurant manage-
ment. He has held a variety of posi-
tions in the restaurant and food ser-
vice business.

Gail Dixon, a well-known member
of the Co-op staff, is its new manag-
er. Dixon has been with the W&L
Food Service for eight years. A na-
tive of New York, Dixon is a long-
time resident of Lexington.

R.E. Lee’s ‘honor’ vs. the Honor System

MY VIEW
By D. Ross Patterson

Young gentlemen, we have no printed
rules. We have but one rule here, and it is
that every student must be a gentlemen.

— Gen. Robert Edward Lee

This simple statement is Lee’s most
important contribution to the institution that is
now Washington and Lee University. With
these words, he founded a laudable system
that has shaped the values and actions of
generations of students. The simplicity and
absolute quality of his declaration is striking.
There are no excepting conditions — only one
rule: that every student must be a gentlemen.

In contrast to Lee’s simple, unwritten rule,
the Honor System is currently presented in a
15-page booklet (the “White Book" and an
accompanying statement on plagiarism).

In discussing the philosophy upon which
the Honor System is based, the “White
Book”, rather than quoting Lee’s statement,
employs the vague paraphrase that, “Lee
established the positive, though unprinted, rule
that students were to accept responsibility for
their own conduct.” This paraphrase loses
much of the meaning of the original. Lee’s
requirement was that students be gentlemen;
there was a definite standard of conduct to
which they were expected to conform.

Today, Lee’s Rule has been transfonned
into the pleasant platitude that students accept
responsibility for their actions. Responsibility
for one’s actions is learned from childhood,
when misbehavior resulted in punishment. The
“White Book” takes Lee’s powerful state-
ment, which provided students with greater

freedom as a reward for adherence to a
greater standard, and takes the force from it.

The “White Book" continues its commen-
tary on the philosophy of the Honor System
saying, “Today as in Lee’s day, the freedom
given to students stems from the understand-
ing that persons attending this university will
act honorably. Although this understanding
has come to be known as the “Honor Sys-
tem,” it is not a compilation of student
regulations. Rather, the system is in essence
one of mutual trust — trust among students,
faculty, administrators, and townspeople that
persons attending Washington and Lee will
not lie, cheat, or steal.”

Despite the lip service that is given to Lee
as the father of the Honor System, we have
come a long way from his simple, unwritten,
rule that all students would behave as gentle-
men. I am concerned that we have come
dangerously close to losing completely the
heritage he has bestowed upon us. It is trou-
bling that the “trust” is not that students will
behave as gentlemen, or honorably. Rather,
Honor (at least insofar as the Honor System
has been concerned) has been effectively
redefined as not lying, cheating or stealing. I
was raised in the belief that gentlemanly
behavior encompasses far more than these
three.

Lee wisely observed that “the forebearing
use of power does not only form a touch-
stone; but the manner in which an individual
enjoys certain advantages over others, is a
test of a true gentleman  The forebearing
and inoffensive use of all this power or
authority, or a total abstinence from it when
the case admits it, will show the gentlemen in
a plain light.” Honor encompasses far more
than not violating others’ trust that one will

I was raised in the belief
that gentlemanly behavior
encompasses far more
that not lying, cheating
or stealing.

refrain from lying, cheating, or stealing.

It is also of concern that this system of
“mutual trust” is nothing of the sort. The
faculty trust us so completely that they re-
quire us to write out the pledge on exams.
This trust is so pervasive on campus that its
apparently deemed necessary to remind stu-
dents that the Honor System applies to the
University Library and the third ﬂoor of Reid
Hall. Additionally, a system of “mutual
trust" is impossible when administration and
faculty are under no obligation to behave
honorably towards the student body.

Several recent events are emblematic of
the distance which the Honor System has
come from Lee’s Rule. A recent notice from
the Student Conduct Committee indicated that
two students had been found guilty of the
infraction of breaking windows and received
an appropriate punishment for their crime. At
bottom of the notice was a reminder to the
student body that we are not only to act
honorably, but that we are also to behave as
ladies and gentlemen. This separation of
honor from gentlemanly behavior is both
inexplicable and unacceptable.

The disciplinary action taken against two
local chapters by their national fraternities is
also emblematic of the distance that the
university has come from Lee’s Rule. None
of the fraternity members involved was ac-

cused of lying, cheating, or stealing — so
they must have acted honorably, even if they
were involved in “drug abuse, hazing, van-
dalism, and ungentlernanly behavior”(which
PiKA advisor Roger Dean implied in last
week’s Phi). A return to Lee’s definition of
a gentleman would remind us that abuse of
one’s power relative to another is not the act
of a gentleman.

Date rape is a reality on this carrrpus;
however, it does not fall under the jurisdic-
tion of the Executive Committee as a dishon-
orable act. Rather, a new committee, the
Confidential Review Committee, has been
formed to handle cases of this nature. The
necessity of the creation of this new commit-
tee is indicative of a failure of the EC to
fulﬁll “their primary responsibility for enforc-
ing the system’ ’of honorable conduct.

The most recent problem with the Honor
System is its failure to indict Blake Comer.
Blake's involvement in the accident that left
a W&L freshman dead was not, in and of
itself, dishonorable; rather, the failure to take
responsibility for his act was dishonorable.
The Ring-tum Phi reported Blake told police
“he did not stop because he was ‘scared to
death and didn't know what to do.’ " That is
unacceptable.

I am willing to accept that he was scared;
however, he knew what to do. He knew that
he needed to stop the car and walk across the
street to the police station. But he was un-
willing to do that. The next morning he
awoke, and again, instead of going to the
police, he went about his daily business. He
continued in the same way, refusing to- do
what he knew he needed to do for eight
months. However, The Ring-tum Phi reported
that W&L Communications Director Brian

TALKBACK

What band would you like to see at Fancy Dress?

Blake Comer was a W&L
student. That should
cause him to conform to
a higher standard. When
tested, he failed.

Shaw has said that, “Because Comer has
withdrawn from school but has not yet been
convicted of any crime, he will remain a
student in good standing regardless of the
outcome of the case." ,

Committing a crime and engaging in what
Prof. David Parker in last week’s Phi called
“a studied effort to lessen the impact of the
situation" is not an honorable act; it is not
the behavior engaged in by a gentleman. Prof.
Parker suggested in his letter that we should
try to “care and forgive”; that Comer’s
trying “to live generously during the past
twenty years” provides a basis for forgive-
ness. However, I cannot agree with Prof.
Parker. Although I do not know Blake Com-
er, I do know that he was a W&L student.
That distinction should cause him to conform
to a higher standard of behavior. When the
test came, when his honor was tested, he
failed.

The Honor System is one of the strongest
features of this institution. It does allow us
unparalled freedoms. However, with freedom
comes responsibility. Today, the freedom and
the responsibility have grown apart as the
definition of honorable conduct has narrowed.
Lee presented a simple Rule in which the
freedom flowed from the acceptance of re-
sponsibility. We would do well to return to
his Rule.

 

.§;s

Dan Harris, ‘90, Annapolis,
Md. — “Something like the Con-
nells.”

Will Harbison, third-year law,
Pensacola, Fl. — “Cher, because
her voice is as beautiful as her
body.”

 

NJ. —

Kim Murtha, ‘93, Midlletown,
(lT’he
because I haven't seen them yet.”

Ark. —
cause I never
bands.”

Rolling Stones,

Amy Coates, ‘9l, Little Rock,
“It doesn't matter be-
remember

the

Woodford Webb, ‘90, Lexing-
ton, Ky. — “Anything that will
be better than last year's ban ."

Wesley Goings, ‘90, Birming-
ham, Ala. — “Paula Abdul
because she really turns me on."

 

u
4
o
0
v.
a
as

..—..-~..z....~—.-uos-—

  

_NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, Januarv 18. 1990

Daly leaves W&L;
to coach at VMI

By Pat Lopes
Assignment Editor

Dennis Daly, former head lacrosse
coach and assistant professor of phys-
ical education at Washington and Lee,
resigned from W&L last December
and is now working with the lacrosse
team at Virginia Military Institute.

According to VMI Director of
Intercollegiate Athletics Eric Hyman,
Daly is now an assistant coach for
the VMI team on a voluntary basis.

Last summer, Daly was reassigned
from the position of W&L head
lacrosse coach and started the Fall
Term working only as an assistant
professor in the RE. Department.
Then in December, Daly resigned

 completely from W&L, according to

W&L Communications Director Brian
Shaw.

Daly did have a contract with
W&L extending until 1991. Shaw
refused to comment on Daly’s resig-
nation, explaining only that it was a
“personnel matter."

This week, Daly also refused to

, comment on his resignation or his

coaching at VMI. But last Spring,

Daly planned to remain at W&L.

“W&L is definitely going to
honor the next two years of Dennis

‘ Daly’s contract which is until 1991,”
A he told The Ring—tum Phi last May.

VMI Head [Lacrosse Coach Doug-

!" By Pat Lopes
’ Assignment Editor

,~ .~ .> 5,,» y’l,i'.'/ #1,!

s. -x.'.

 

C.E. Hardy J ewele

35 S. Main Street
463-4121

Washington and Lee Chemistry

5 Professor Dr. J. Keith Shillington is

doing well at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, on the road to recovery
from a mild stroke he suffered last
Wednesday.

“He’s laughing and joking, as

if always,” said Chemistry Professor
' William Watt, a close friend of Shil-

lington.

26 South Main Street

Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.

Lexington, Va. 244502523
, (703) 463-9338

 

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

I 6%’)

Lexington Lighting

We have Study Lamps, Table Lamps, and Floor Lamps.
Come by!

Right

'<\\ 0ll6'b

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

Dennis Daly

 left W&L, to assist at VMI

las Bartlett said he is pleased to have
Daly’s help but also refused to com-
ment on Daly’s situation.

“He docsn’t want to imply any
animosity,” Bartlett said of Daly’s
refusal to comment. “The ‘whole
thing was a delicate situation with the
guys at W&L.

“I want to keep our relationship
the way it is,” Bartlett said. “I'm
just happy to have someone of his
expertise to work with rather than
against.”

Watt said Shillington is having
some trouble controlling movement
on the left side of his body but he
can move his arm, wiggle his fingers
and move his leg.

Right now he’s in stable condition
and ready to start on therapy so that
he can get better control of his left
side. He’ll be at Stonewall Jackson
for at least one more week.

Shillington welcomes visitors. His
sister, Nina Kelsey, is in town.
W&L students have also converged
on Stonewall Jackson Hospital to talk

 

Arway Kirby

 
 

 
 

€-/3‘

Lip Synch Contest
Friday, January 26, 1990

Students Against Multiple Sclerosis

4 4th Annual

GHQ Tavern

1st Prize:
$150 Cash & 2 Tickets to Fancy Dress

2nd Prize:

$50 Cash & 1 Fancy Dress Tickets
3rd Prize:

$25 Cash & 1 Fancy Dress Ticket

Sign Up Begins Monday, January 22
Deadline: Wednesday, January 24, 4:30 p.m.

Where: Snack Bar —— 11:30-1 :00
Evans Hall — 11:30-1:00 & 5:30-6:30
Student Center —— 8:30-4:30

For Further Information Contact:
Jerry Darrell — Ext. 8599

 

(and
Inn
1 .
mu nun
.. mum
in... -«-vv-ymmrmm
I
cum in

.~..»arf«!~'il!'‘''' ‘‘

 

 

Summer jobs

Summer jobs for college
students are available at Glacier
National Park in the northwest
comer of Montana. Glacier Park,
Inc., is looking for students to fill
over 900 summer jobs in all
segments of the hotel and hospi-
tality areas. Jobs include hotel
front desk positions, maids, cooks,
waitresses, and bus drivers. Some
students will also participate in
the guest entertainment. For de-
tails on jobs and salaries call
Glacier Park, Iric., at (602) 248-
2612.

Outing club

Get ready for the spring by
learning to canoe or kayak. Kayak
classes are being offered by the
Outing Club in the old pool on
Thursday nights from 6-8. Sign
up in advance at Baker 109. In
addition the Outing Club will
sponsor canoeing clinics on week-
ends beginning Saturday, Jan. 26.
If you want to use an Outing
Club canoe, you must take part in
this instruction. For more informa-
tion come to the Outing Club
table outside the Co-op today and
Jan. 25 from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. or
call Mark Lubkowitz at 463-7590.

Anyone interested in hiking or
backpacking is welcome at the

GENERAL NOTES

meeting of the Outing Club's
hiking section on Monday, Jan.
22 at 5:30 p.m. in 109 of the
University Center. They will be
scheduling hikes for winter term,
so take your suggestions or call
Jim Clark at 464-4448.

The biking section of the ‘
Outing Club will take a mountain-
bike ride in the Montebello area
of the Blue Ridge on Saturday,
Feb. 3. All skill levels are wel-
come. Food and transportation
will be provided. Contact John
Buchanan at 463-7369 for details.

If you would like to use the
Outing Club’s bike maintenance
equipment, call John Buchanan at
463-7369 or Jason Daywitt at
464-4665. Regular shop hours will
begin when the warm weather
returns.

The environmental section of
the Outing Club has placed boxes
for recycling newspapers under
the Graham-Lees archway and
under the archway leading to the
dinning hall. Please place only
newspapers in these boxes; com-
puter paper can be put in the
recycling boxes in each of the
computer labs. If you would like
to become involved in these ef-
forts, please call Jim Clark at
464-4448.

There will be a meeting of the
environmental section of the Out-
ing Club on Monday, Jan. 29 at
5:30 p.m. in 109 of the Universi-
ty Center.

Workshop

The Career Development and
Placement Office is sponsoring a
workshop on writing cover letters
and resumes on Tuesday, Jan. 23
from 4-5 p.m. in room 109 of the
University Center. All students are
invited.

Hillel society

The newly formed Hillel Soci-
ety of Jewish students will hold
its winter organizational meeting
on Monday, Jan. 22 in room 103
of the University Library. Your
attendance is requested.

Ice hockey

Anyone interested in playing
ice hockey for W&L in a college
league for the 1990-91 season,
please call Louis Kaye at 464-
4638.

Filmfest

The Russian Film Series is
sponsoring the showing of Broth-
ers Karamazov/Brat’ya
Karamazoviy (1968; USSR; direc-
tor-Ivan Pyriev) at 7:30 p.m. on
Friday, Jan. 26 in 203 of Reid
Hall. This film, which is based on

Dostoyevksiy’s novel, is a meta-
physical detective story as if co-
authored by St. Augustine and
Mickey Spillane. God and Satan
are the main characters. This film
is in Russian with English subti-
tles.

STD’s & AIDS

Richard P. Keeling, M.D.,
director of the department of
student health at the University of
Virginia, will speak in Lee Cha-
pel tonight at 7:30 p.m. Keeling,
who is also associate professor of
internal medicine at the school of
medicine at the university, will
speak on the relation of self-es-
teem to the spread of sexually-
transmitted diseases and AIDS.
His visit to the campus is spon-
sored by the Health Education
Committee.

Lost & found

The following items have been
found and may be picked up at
Carol Calkins’ office: one denim
jacket with Canyon River Blue
label, one pair of gold thin-
framed glasses in a light brown
case, one tube of Clinique lip-
stick, one black knit glove, one
green W&L spiral notebook, one
small Neiman-Marcus Box with 3
by 5 cards and pens, and one
heart-shaped locket with the ini-
tials GAC.

with “Doc Shillington.”

“For all you freshmen chemistry
majors, forget that sigh of relief,”
said Senior Chemistry Major Sarah
Allen, who visits “Doc Shillington”
every day for lunch.

“I know Doc's OK because he’s
still bitchin’,” said Senior Christian
Eckrnan, also a chemistry major.

Shillington has been teaching
Chemistry at W&L since 1953. He
also has the honor of crowning the
Homecoming queen every Fall and
has done so for the past 25 years.

Shillington is also well known by
people who swim in the auxiliary
pool where he takes a dip almost
every afternoon.

Watt said Shillington telephoned
him from his home last Tuesday,
during the evening. Shillington told
Watt that he felt dizzy and would not
be able to lecture the next day.

According to Watt, Shillington
called him again Wednesday morning
and said that he was having a hard
time moving the left side of his body
and that he probably suffered a stroke

  
  

4:3,
,_
Q

 M... ‘‘‘ ~;

  
 

  
  

:
, . .

..
..
T’:

  

._;
,.

.

  
   

i,
,.

   
 

    

Get ahead of your competition
with our résumé packages.

- L,~Eii opy - grapshica

   

   

 

31 s. Main St., Lexington

   

Hi-Spccd Copying - Desktop Publishing - FAX - Design Graphics
463-I712 ° I25 W..\'elson,Lexington ° FAX 463-6918

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES 8: CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Sat. 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

George’s
Hairstylist

_l36 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett’s

463-3975
We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell

Open Evenings
Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

John Updike at W&L Jan. 22-23

    
  

 
 

      
 

463-3355

    
  
    
     
   
      

, event.

\ Many of his titles for sale at the Bookstore. Come by —
 pick one up — have him sign while he’s on campus. ,_
‘ His schedule does not permit a formal booksigning 

Calendars on Sale 1/ 2 Price
Starting Jan. 22

 
   
 

 

      
 
     
 

L

For fast,
quality

film developing
come to

THOMAS C. BRADSHAW II

Photographist - Frame Shop - Kis Mini Lab
7 North Main Street
LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450

9
H.-

   

  
   
  

         
 

 

.‘Doc’ Shillington recovering from mild stroke

during the night.

Shillington told Watt that he al-
ready had a previously scheduled
appointment to see his doctor later
Wednesday, and that he could wait
until then to head for the hospital.
But Watt insisted that Shillington go
immediately to Stonewall Jackson.

At Stonewall Jackson, doctors
examined Shillington and sent him
to Roanoke for tests with a neu-
rologist. Shillington returned to
Lexington that night and has been at
Stonewall Jackson since.

 

 

 

.. . . -_;.::::..:§:E::::::_
- o 0.0

     

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

Arlington Women’s Center.

  

Monarch Pet
Center

      

  

    

Snakes, Bunnys,
Killer Fish and
Tarantulas

      
     
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   

Best Fundraisers On Campus!

is your fraternity, sorority or club interested
in earning $1,000+ for a one-week, on-
campus marketing project? You must be
well-organized and hard working. Call Jenny
or Myra at (800)592-2121.

OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS

Applications are now being accepted for the position of Ad-
missions Counselor for the 1990-91 academic year.

Interested candidates should submit a letter of application
and a resume to the Personnel Office by January 26, 1990.

William M. Hartog

LEE III

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

ur Mother
Who Art in Heaven ? ?

Join us as we meet to discuss the feminine images of
God. Open to all women students, faculty, and staff of
the W&L community. Wednesday nights at 6:30 p.m.,

For more information call 463-38 73

  
   
   
     
     

  
    

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

     
    
      
   
  
  
 

     

   

1-800-768-LEHI

  
  

  

 
     
   

   

WILLSON-

HOUSE

Restaurant

  
  

'.P.‘“

30 N. Main St.
Lexington

rjjj-Zjfjjjfjjijj
I

ORDER AN ENTREE AN 1
GET A SECOND ONE FOR .
HALF PRICE (Dinner Only) 1
I

I

J

*This coupon valid for up to four persons

and only good in January.

  

    
     
       
  

463-3020

   

 
 

 

ODK

from page 1

The four honorary ODK initiates
to be inducted tomorrow are Mervyn
F. Silverrnan, ‘60; Thomas P. Ride-
out, ‘63; James W. Head III, ‘64; and
W&L psychology Prof. Leonard E.
Jarrard.

Silverrnan is one of the nation’s
foremost experts in AIDS research.
He is president of the only privately
funded AIDS research organization in
the country, the American Foundation
for AIDS Research.

Rideout is a member of the advi-
sory board of the W&L School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics.
He recently became the executive
director of Bank Capital Markets
Association.

Head is an international authority
in planetary studies. He worked with
NASA’s Apollo program from 1968-
1972, and has taught at Brown Uni-
versity since 1973. He also has

served as a collaborating scientist
with the Russians on Mars.

Jarrard began teaching at W&L in
1959, and returned here after a seven-
year absence in 1971 to become head
of the psychology department. In
1987 he was one of 13 Virginia
college faculty members to receive an
Outstanding Faculty Award from the
Virginia Council of Higher Education.

W&L President John D. Wilson
will be the principal speaker for the
Founders Day ceremony, which will
begin at 12:15 in Lee Chapel. Wil-
son, an honorary ODK initiate in
1983, said that the linking of ODK
and Founders Day is extremely ap-
propriate. “I think that to take stock
once a year to celebrate the men and
women who step forward and begin
to take charge of things is appropri-
ate. One of the great opportunities on
campus is the renewal of leadership.”

GHQ to host 4th Lip

By Chris Bray
Staff Reporter

Have you ever dreamed of being
one of the New Kids On The Block?
Jon Bon Jovi? Kip Winger?

Such troubling dreams can come
true at W&L’s 4th Annual Lip Synch
Contest to be held Jan. 26. All
proceeds from the contest, which
starts at 8:30 p.m. in the GHQ, go to
the National Multiple Sclerosis Soci-
ety.
Prizes will be awarded to the top
three acts. First prize is $150 and
two Fancy Dress tickets. Second
prize is $50 and two FD tickets, and
the third-place act will receive $25
and one ticket to Fancy Dress.

Also, a videotape recording of the
winning act will be entered in MTV’s

national contest. National finalists
will compete live in Florida during
spring break.

Members of the Phi Gamma Delta
(FIJI) fraternity have taken top honors
the past two years with their rendi-
tions of “Relax” in 1989 and the
Village People's “YMCA” in 1988.

Gerald “Jerry” Darrell, director
of university food services, is once
again organizing the contest. Darrell
said he is looking forward to another
successful event this year.

“The past two years have been
standing room only in the GHQ and
everyone has had a blast,” said
Darrell. “It’s great that we can
make money for MS and have a
good time in doing so.”

Last year the contest raised
$1,130, all of which was donated
toward research about multiple sclero-

 

The Rlng-tum Phl, January 18, 1990

18, in Lee Chapel at 7:30 p.m.

AIDS Network.

America.

   

Keeling, who is is also associate professor of internal medicine at the
school of medicine at the university, will speak on the relation of self-
esteem to the spread of sexually-transmitted diseases and AIDS. His
visit to the campus is sponsored by the Health Education Committee.

A graduate of UVa, Keeling received his M.D. degree from the Tufts
University School of Medicine. He is president of the American College
Health Association and has served as an AIDS consultant to more than
40 public and private colleges and universities across the country. He is
a member of the ad hoc advisory committee on AIDS for the United
States Public Health Service and the executive board of the National

John Updike, prize-winning American novelist, poet and critic, will
give a reading at W&L Monday, Jan. 22, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Updike’s books, such as Rabbit Run, Rabbit Redux, The Centuar, The
Witches of Easrwick, Couples, and his autobiographical sketch, Self-
Conciousness, deal with Protestant middle class life in small town

He has written 36 books, including 13 novels and five collections of
verse. His work has won he Pulitzer Prize, the National Book Award, the

WHO’S ON THE HILL

Richard P. Keeling, M.D., director of the department of student
health at the University of Virginia, will seak at W&L Thursday, Jan.

American’Book Award, and the National Book Critics Circle Award.
Updike s visit is sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Program.

The Most Rev. Edmond L. Browning, presiding bishop of The
Episcopal Church of the United States of America, will speak at W&L
Thursday, Jan. 25, at 4 pm. in Lee Chapel. This lecture, which was
sponsored by the Philip F. Howerton Fund for Special Programs in the

Department of Religion at W&L.

The title of Browning’s lecture will be “Paths of Righteousness,
Paths of Glory: Leadership in America and the Church.”

As presiding bishop, Browning

serves as president of the House of

Bishops, as chief pastor to the Episcopal Church’s membership of 2.6
million people, and as primate when acting in concert with heads of other
branches of the worldwide Anglican Communion.

Browning’s two-day visit to Lexington will include the celebration of
the Holy Eucharist for The Feast fo the Conversion of St. Paul at
Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church at 6 p.m. Thursday

evening (Jan. 25).
activities planned to celebrate R.E.

Browning will officially inaugurate a year of

Lee Church’s Sesquicentennial.

Browning will also meet with law students in Lewis Hall at 9:30
a.m. Friday, Jan. 26, and with cadets at Virginia Military Institute during

lunch that day before departing

to Blacksburg, Va., for the annual

conference of the Diocese of Southwestern Virginia.

 

Synch

sis. Darrell hopes to get more entries
than last year, to meet this year’s
goal of $1,500. “Usually we have no
more than ten acts. I hope to see
around twenty enter this year.”

However, said Darrell, in past
It 3 ‘
years we ve raised most of our
money from the spectators.”

Contest registration will be Mon-
day through Wednesday 11:30 a.m. to
1:00 p.m. outside the Co-Op, 11:30
a.m. to 1:00 p.m and 5:30 to 6:30
p.m. in Evans Dining Hall, and 8:30
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center. The
entry fee is a $25.

There is a $3 admission fee for
spectators, and more than 25 door
prizes will be given out between acts.

More information is available
from Darrell at 453-8599. -

SEMINAR

from page 1

preciated,” Costello said.

In response to Phi Kap’s propo-
sed new pledge program, new Pi
Kappa Alpha Vice President Richard
Perry said, “With the changes going
on at PiKA and W&L, Brooks (Pe-
ttus) and Michael Applebaum have
provided us with good alternatives for
our pledge program.

“I was glad to see that Phi Kap
took the lead in changing old atti-
tudes about hazing and pledgeship,”
Perry said.

Atkins agreed and said,“I think
it's heading in the right direction.”

“I appreciate the image they're
trying to change. Other fraternities
should try to change as well,” Atkins
said.

Barnes speaks of new political era

By Carrie Davis
Staff Reporter

Nationally known political com-
mentator and senior editor of The
New Republic magazine Fred Barnes
spoke in Lee Chapel Tuesday on ‘the
emergence of a new political era.

Barnes’ said that since the
Iran-Contra hearings in 1987, the
Washington political arena has be-
come mundane. Politicians now con-
cern themselves with social issues
such as the War on Drugs or envi-
ronmental developments like the
Clean Air Act, he said.

Barnes said that President George
Bush’s policies are symptoms, rather
than causes, of this new era. Unlike

president. He works longer hours than
Reagan but does not make himself as
visible to the public. These are all
characteristics of the new, gentle
politics.

The attitude manifests itself in
four ways, according to Barnes.
‘~ The fmstris-the” decrease in‘ gov-
ernment spending. Concem of the
federal deficit in the 1980's caused
the government to eliminate several
programs, including catastrophic
health care. Military spending on the
Strategic Defense Initiative and the
space program has also been cut.

The second is the acceptance of
big government. Regardless of what
people think, Barnes said, “Ameri-
cans like big govemment.” He added
that he did not anticipate any pro-

grams that Reagan failed to eliminate
would be cut in the future. Ironically,
Reagan added to the acceptance of
big government by calling attention to
Washington.

The third characteristic of the new
era is the decline of anti-Communist

sentiment. Barnes called the recent

events in Eastern Europe "the greatest
democratic awakening in history.” He
listed his reasons for the fall of Com-
munism.

Barnes claimed that the Soviets
could not compete with American
military technology. This clash cul-
minated in the invasion of Grenada.

He also said that the Soviet sys-
tem simply did not work. Innovations
never caught on, causing a drastic
decline in the economy.

  FACULTY — STUDENTS
Your College I.D. is Good For 1

AT DRS. BLUM, NEWMAN, BLACKSTOCK St ASSOCIATE

OPTOMETRISTS, P.C.

Contact lenses too! Bu a pair of tinted contacts
and get a pair 0 clear contacts free!

Drs. mum, Newman,
Blaclrstocli E Associates

OP TOME TRIS TS. P. C.

Lexington—Buena Vista

Shopping Center

Lexington
463- 1 600

The election of a Polish Pope was
also a major factor in the rejection of
Communism in Eastern Europe. Pope
John Paul II campaigned for the
Solidarity movement in Poland and
even threatened to visit and rally the
people if the Soviets rejected the
establishment of the: labor union.

When the Pope declared that
Communism and Christianity are
incompatible, the Polish youth used
the church as a haven, according to
Barnes.

The people received support from
radio broadcasts such as Radio Free
Europe and the Voice of America and
were led by decisive men such as
Lech Walesa who knew when to act,
Barnes said.

Save Up To 380  
on Gold Rings

hottest—looking styles for

fl

“Relativel
ArtCarved
the best deal on gold.

  

real genius for designing the

Additionally, Phi Kap’s new food
program was outlined by chapter
advisor Jerry Darrell at the workshop.
Darrell said the food at Phi Kap has
improved and become more diverse
while the budget has been reduced
greatly.

Last year Phi Kap saved $31,331
in the first year of the program,
Darrell said. He said Phi Kap bud-
geted so well in the months of Sep-
tember through November that there
was no food charge for the month of
December. Currently each brother
pays $20.88 a month to eat at Phi
kap, Darrell said.

Junior Phi Kap Mark Monahan
said he has seen the quality of food
improve over the past year.

   

Bares on Politics

“Hopefully the workshop helped

educate other fraternities so they can ,
improve on their food programs as 1

well,’ ’ Monahan said.

Darrell also said he believes the

fraternity is the first to set up retire-
ment funds for its current and past
employees. The fraternity is now
raising and near a goal of $24,000
for a retirement fund for its current
employees, Darrell said.

Pettus also outlined Phi Kap’s
new leadership and administrative
techniques at the workshop. An Exec-
utive Board was created, consisting of
the fratemity’s top officers.

“If people got just one thing out
of the program, I’ll be happy,” Pet-
tus said after the workshop.

Nationally known political commentator Fred Barnes spoke at Lee Chapel

on Tuesday night about the changing face of world politics in light of the

recent turnovers in Eastern Europe. Contact sponsored the program.

 

3. .
’O

r“

V


ix

  
     
 
  
     

N:
\
J

a’. . .4 _ 1 . ' I L _ ‘ '
It doesn’t take an  :,,I"_ T;,.\__ ,_-5'
Einstein to ﬁgure , '2' ”" . 7
out now’s the time - .’ f’ -’-f»''‘ ~

or  -/Q _
to buy your college % ' « z ‘
ring. Choose a ring  3. .
from a company with a

RTC/I

speakin

has

RVED

COLLEGE JEWELRY

9

99

both men and women.
What’s more, your

ArtCarved gold ring
is so superbly
crafted it’s protected
by a Full Lifetime
Warranty. Now’s the
time to buy your
college ring. Ask how
you can save on gold
accessories, too.

© I‘X19AR’l'CARVE)

Location
Bookstore

Dam Jan. 25 3-. 26

Time 10 _ 3 Deposit Required

Payment Plans Available -  

 

  

SPORTS

Generals make it four straight over RC  

V By Jay Plotkln
" Sports Editor

They say the storm is worst before the calm.
For the Washington and Lee basketball team, all may
; not be calm yet, but it seems they have weathered their
. worst performance in two seasons without too much
harm.
. After looking terrible in a 67-66 loss to Bridgewater,
. the Generals bounced back in front of the home folks in
the annual tussle with arch rival Roanoke.

After the poor defensive performance against Bridge-
water, which head coach Verne Canﬁeld called the worst
he has seen in his life, he felt a little better after the
Roanoke win. “Their team defense was better. They still
aren’t off the hook. They have got to play team defense
on the road and they .have got to stop people from
penetrating. Roanoke penetrated way too much against us,
and weicannot allow that.”

Most of the Generals defensive success came from
their 2-3 match-up zone. Said Cariﬁeld, “We were only
going to use it for one or two possessions, but it was
working and [junior guard] Michael [Holton] kept calling
it. After about seven or eight trips, they took a time out
to try to solve it.”

W&L opened up an early lead as Holton and junior
backcourt mate Jim Casey opened the game with three-
point goals. The three-point goal would turn out to be
W&L’s best friend in the ﬁrst half, as the Generals made
six of 11. Ironically enough, the team, though shooting
better than 50 percent from outside, made only 37
percent overall in the ﬁrst half.

The Generals trailed 13-11 before Casey and freshman
Bryan Watkins each buried tliree-point goals sandwiched
around sophomore forward John Witherington’s rebound
tip-in to give the Generals a 19-13 lead.

The lead grew to 10 when junior front court players
hooked up for a basket, Craig Hatfield scoring off a feed
from Chris Jacobs. Roanoke closed to 38-37 behind the
play of transfers Rodney Spickard (Emory & Henry) and
Joe McDowell (Navy), but Holton nailed another three-
pointer to give W&L a 41-39 halftime lead.

The second half was almost a direct contrast to the
ﬁrst for W&L. The Generals concentrated on getting the
ball inside to start the half, and they did so to perfection.
Hatﬁeld and Jacobs scored the first six baskets of the
second half, including a dunk over a Roanoke player by
Jacobs.

Of their first 22 second-half points, 20 came from the
inside players. Jacobs, Hatﬁeld and sophomore Courtney
Penn led the way with six each during the rim. The
inside play sparked the Generals to 58 percent shooting
in the second half.

With W&L leading 63-54, Roanoke went on a 14-8
run to cut the lead to just one at 71-70 with just over
four minutes left. Holton answered with a three-pointer

Wrestlers earn s

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

gular, the Washington and Lee wres- comef’
tling squad soundly defeated the host

son because the North Carolina year, the problems
school’s program is looked at in the worked om,
same light as Washington and Lee’s

Although he aclmowledged the superi-

Franke was disappointed that his team
did not have a better showing.

the ten starters are freshmen. The

plit at
Davidson Triangular

a win to relieve some pressure.
“With such a youthful squad,”
said Franke, “the more experience we

get, the better off we will be. Hope-
In 1115! W€€k6I1d’S DaVidS0Il TfiaI1- fully with experience, success will

One point that Franke will work
team. 36-15. while dropping a dcci- on with his team is the technical
sion to a strong Furman club, 39-9. aspect, “We’rc making mistakes

Generals head coach Gary Franke technically on the mats,” noted
was especially happy to defeat David- Franke, but fegls by the end of the

In the 39-9 loss to Furman, only
P1'°8Tam- F1"mk°n°‘°d 31° Same WP‘? two Generals came out victorious in
Of athletes are I'6C1'l1lI6Cl and the cali-  matchgs. Junior co.cap[ain Larry
ber of wrestlers are comparable. puke), won his 125_p0und match by
forfeit and sophomore Peer Soderberg
or strength of Furman’s squad. won his 167-pound bout 9-3.
Against Davidson, the Generals
jumped out to a 12-0 lead as 118
Franke Sent 0111 an Pxlremely pound freshman Rich Paini and Pil-
Young Squad 135‘ Weekend to SWPPIP key both were awarded forfeit victo-
Wilh DaVid5011 and F111man- SCVCI1 Of ries. Franke called these two forfeits,

The Ring-tum Phi, January 18, 1990

SLAM, B, JA

 

‘

84-75 win.

win over Eastern Mennonite.

W&L a 7068 lead.

Generals their fourth straight win.

IIIOIIICIIIS .

Casey each had 12.

Blue Marlins 81-59.

Junior center Chris Jacobs brings down the chandelier to start the second half in last Thursday's Old his foot.

Dominion Athletic Conference game against Roanoke College. Jacobs led the way with 17 points as the
Generals beat the Maroons for the fourth straight time, 84-75. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

to push the lead back to four with 3:38 left, and Hatﬁeld to help preserve the win. which the Generals iced with

made a crucial steal and had two rebound stiekbacks late SW61! ff‘-33 lhT0WS in the 18$! 1152 Of the game 10 63111 an all-defensive practice.”

 
 

will have been

 
 

 

_ . along with Jamie Selway’s forfeit win  R_ _ _ 
General mentor saw bright spots in

all of them, and also noted it was D Please see WRESTLE page 7
important that most of them notched

Sophomore forward Courtney Penn lays in two points against Roanoke.
Penn came off the bench to help spark the Generals‘ inside game in the
84-75 win. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

teammates in last Sunday's meet in the Twombly Pool. The Generals 3'5 °V°'a"- W&L ﬁle Ph°t° bl! W- Palfbk Hillel)!-

otppogoggof

  

fl)”

arlene ’s Hairstylist & Tannery

FALL & WINTER MERCHANDISE
ON SALE NOW
New Spring items arriving daily

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450 ;
(703)463-5988

  

 

 lllNl|

1st Floor Reid Hall
Come to your Printing Center for:

- FLYERS 8. POSTERS
- Copying 8. printing

- Programs

- Newsletters

   

Writer ii to its service. The Macinto , ' ‘ ' ~ " » ~
add scanned images to add to your p_.osiers or flyers. ‘
up a pamphlet about this equipment: capabilities.

  
 

 

@' 

Get a jump on your tan
for spring break
10 visits to our tanning beds
for $40 or $5 for a single visit

We also invite you to stop by for:
precision haircutting & styling, acrylic nails,
perming, hot waxing... All phases of beauty care

"“ sekll Nexus & Paul Mitchell Products

    
   
    
 

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-4096

Jacobs and Holton led the way with 17 points each.
Hatfield scored 16 and Casey pumped in 15.

Said Cariﬁeld, “We played one of our better games ‘
in that we only had seven turnovers. Michael Holton
played extremely well, and I thought Hammer [Hatfield]
did as well. Chris [Jacobs] got himself going and drew
three charges. A kid like Courtney Penn came off the
bench and sparked our inside game. It was the kind of
game that symbolizes what we are all about. Everybody
connibuted, and that's the way it should be." ,'

Taking charges and outstanding depth were the Watch
words for Tuesday's Old Dominion Athletic Conference is

Holton’s foul shots set the stage for sophomore
forward Mark Melton. With five seconds left, EMC’s ’
Gary Chupp, a two-time All-ODAC selection, penetrated.
Melton slid over to help and was waiting for Chupp
when he got there. Charging was called, and Holton
nailed two more free throws to ice the game and give the '

Said Canﬁeld after Tuesday’s game, “This was a big,
ugly, dumb win. This team really bothers me. We played
a great first half with good intense defense. Then they
didn’t play team defense in the second half. We‘re
halfway through the season and they are flirting with an

 

Ii. POSTERS STATIONERY PACKING AND SHIPPING Sf.-R‘/l

‘V

O

V

C

The Generals trailed with :59 on the clock, but ‘
Hatﬁeld, a 61 percent free throw shooter knocked down
two to tie the game at 68. Hatfield then blocked a shot
at the other end and Holton rebounded the ball and was
fouled. He hit both ends of the one-and-one to give ,

é

C

n

*9

The Generals led by 21 with 19:44 to play in the
game 47-26, but allowed the Royals to take the lead by
getting outscored 34-12 over the next 16 rriinutes before
Hatﬁeld and Holton rescued the team in the waning

ﬂ

?

Four Generals finished in double ﬁgures, led by
Jacobs’ 17 points. Hatﬁeld, who is 20 of 25 from the
ﬁeld in his last ﬁve games, had 15 while Holton and .i

C

Last Saturday, the Generals travelled to Norfolk, Va. 9
where they caused 18 ﬁrst half turnovers against Virginia
Wesleyan. W&L scored the ﬁrst eight points of the game
and never looked back. Jacobs led the way with 24 9
points, and Holton added 17 as the Generals ripped the

The three conference wins left the Generals, ranked g
fifth in the South Region, 10-3, 6-2 going into tonight's
match-up at Randolph-Macon. The Yellow Jackets, who '
prevailed in the season’s earlier meeting in Lexington,
lead the conference and are ranked No. 3 in the region.
W&L has not won in Ashland since 1959 and will again
be without junior forward Ed Hart, who will be out for
approximately three more weeks with a stress fracture in

0

d

0

 
  

 
 
   
  
  
  

  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   

Swimmers from both W&L and the College of Charleston cheer on their 97f°fl5 19" Sh0l’i. as Charleston W00 115-93 Th9 [[055 '9“ "19 G°"9f3l5 '

*.

The Fling-tum Phl, January 18, 1990

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men’s
swimming team improved their record
to 5-3 with a 101-91 upset win over
the College of Charleston on Sunday
afternoon at Cy Twombly pool.

“It was a tough, exhausting day,"
said head coach Page Rerriillard.
“But our men were up to the chal-
lenge in the events we needed to
win.”

The men's victory was particularly 2

impressive considering that the squad
has only nine swimmers. Senior All-
American Dave Olson, who injured
an elbow in early December, did not
swim in Sunday’s meet.

“The men’s team, despite being
low on numbers, continues to come
together and do what it takes to get
the job done,” Remillard said.

The key race for the Generals was
sophomore Stuart Towns’ victory in
the 200-yard breaststroke.

“He’s been working on that
stroke. It was a must for us and he
accomplished it,” said Reriiillard.

The win by Towns, whose fmish-

. ing time of 2:22.28 was a lifetime

best, set the stage for W&L’s first-
place finish in the 400-yard freestyle
relay, which gave the Generals their
ﬁfth victory of the season.

VV&L's relay team ﬁnished with a

WRESTLE

” from page 6

time of 3:21.49, beating Charleston
by 11 seconds.

In addition to Towns, three other
sophomores, Doug Brown, Jay Smith
and Chip Nordhoff earned ﬁrst-place
ﬁnishes.

“Doug Brown did a really good
job,” Remillard said.

Brown ﬁnished ﬁrst in the 200-
yard ﬂy (2:07.86) and the 1000-yard
freestyle ( 10:12.30).

Smith won the 50 and 100-yard
freestyle events (21.93-, 47.74), while
Nordhoff claimed ﬁrst-place in the
00-yard freestyle with a time of
1:48.80.

Sunday’s victory came on the
heels of a 111-72 loss to Ship-
pensburg last Wednesday night.
Smith, who won the 50 and 100-
yard freestyle races (21.67, 47.96),
provided the only two victories for
W&L in that meet.

This Saturday the Generals will
swim against Georgetown at 1 p.m.
in Twombly Pool. A W&L victory
would equal the tearn’s 1988-89
record of 6-3.

“They're a large squad,” Remil-
lard said of Georgetown. “It’ll be a
challenge for us, but we should swim
well.

“We have to keep getting faster,
because our opponents are going to
keep getting stronger.”

_ at 190 pounds the key to the match.

Selway is yet another W&L fresh-
man.

The Generals grabbed another
quick six points when freshman Doug
Lamb recorded a pin 2:19 into his
134-pound bout.

After senior co-captain Lee Gar-

-- love lost his 142-pound bout 6-4,

freshman 150-pounder Cary Potts
needed just 1:21 to pin his opponent.
158-pound freshman Ryland Scott
followed his teammate Potts and took
a slightly longer 2:00 to record a fall
of his own. -

Soderberg and freshman Andrew
Tucker both lost, but Selway then
recorded his forfeit victory at 190
pounds. Freshman John Conkling
dropped an 11-5 decision at heavy-
weight to complete the scoring.

Looking down the road, the team
will travel to the Newport News
Apprentice Invitational this weekend.
Franke is excited about this upcoming
tournament as the Generals will face
some of their best competition of the
year. Frarike is looking for success
not only from the upperclassmen but

 forwsorrie freshmen to place as well.

Didn’t win the Bahamas trip?

Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695

 

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

Having captured the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference championship
for the last two years, the Washing-
ton and Lee women's swim team is
starting to look outside the conference
for wins against different competition.

The team has yet to win a non-
ODAC meet this season, but, as head
coach Page Rerriillard points out,
having not beaten a non-conference
foe is not a reﬂection on this team’s
potential.

“We had an option, and we chose
to emphasize our ODAC performance.
Also, the women are swimming the
men's schedule. The issue is not that
they are unable to beat anyone out-
side the ODAC," said Remillard.

Last weekend, the Generals were
challenged from the get-go against
the College of Charleston. Although
W&L came up on the short end of
the score, there were several ﬁne
performances, most notably from
sophomore Jodi Herring and freshman
Christine Gorman.

Herring ﬁnished in second place
in the 500-freestyle but dropped ﬁve
seconds off her previous best time in
the event. She swam a strong race in
the underdog role. Gorman won both

§W&L ‘swimming tough’

the 200-butterﬂy and the 1,000-free-
style events.

According to Remillard, Gorman
1S contributing increasingly more to
the whole output of the team with
every week.

Remillard also acknowledged
weaknesses in the W&L swims
against Charleston, but did not con-
vey much disappointment. “The team
as a whole did not put together a
consistent performance. One event we
swam well, the next we were off.
Then in the next one we redeemed
ourselves. We need to work a little
on concentration, but I’m still very
enthusiastic,” said the eleventh-year
head coach. 1

This weekend W&L runs into a
strong Georgetown team. Remillard is
looking for good individual perform-
ances. Practice time this week has
been devoted to training solely for
the Georgetown meet.

Said Remillard, “The women are
working as a team to win their first
non-conference meet — they have just
that one goal in mind."

The meet will be held Saturday in
Twombly Pool starting at 1:00.

ROANOKE (75)

Betts 2-6 2-2 6. L. Rose -
6 4-5 16, Pendleton 3-11 5-6
4, Spickard 34 2-2 9, Gentry 0-0 0-0 0,

3-5 0-0 6, Swan: 4-4 1-3 9, McDowell 2-7 6-6 10
Totals 75-53 22-31 75.
WASHINGTON AND LEE (84)

Melton 3-5 2-3 8, Hatfield 7-8 2-3 16, Jacobs
3-12 11-13 17, I-Iolton 6-9 3-5 17. Casey 4-12 3-
4 15, Manson 0-0 0-0 0, Penn 2-4 2-2 6, Gallavan
0-3 0-1 0, Almtz 0-1 0-0 0, Watkins 1-3 0-0 3,
Witherington 1-2 0-0 2, Hughes 0-0 0-0 0, Johnson
0-0 0-0 0. Totals 27-59 22-27 84.

Halftime-41-39, W&L. Three-point goals-RC (3-
12) Spickard 1, Proctor 1, Pendleton 1; W&L (8-
15) Casey 4, Holton 3, Watkins 1. Total fouls-RC
22, W&L 23. Fouled out-Ottm. Technical fouls-
RC coach Moir, W&L coach Canﬁeld. Rebounds-
RC 39 (Ouen 8). W&L 30 (Hatﬁeld, Jacobs 5).
Assists-RC 9 (Rose 3), W&L 7 (1-Iolton, Melton,
Jacobs 2). A-1,937.

|Basketba|l box scores |

EASTERN MENNONITE (68)

Gingerich 3-6 0-0 9, Chupp 5-10 6-6 19,
Denlingcr 3-10 0-0 6, Leonard 6-7 1-2 13, V.
Troyer 6-101-313, Dean 0-10-01, Cooper
0 2, M. Troyer 2-3 2-2 6, Ramsey 0-1
Totals 26-49 10-13 68.

WASHINGTON AND LEE (72)

Holton 3-9 4-4 12, Casey 3-6 5-8 12, Jacobs
7-14 3-7 17, Hatﬁeld 6-7 3-4 15, Penn 0-1 2-4 2,
Melton 0-1 2-4 2, Mansm 0-0 0-0 0, Brading 0-
0 0-0 0, Gallavan 0-1 0-0 0, Alrutz 2-3 1-2 5,
Watkins 0-1 0-0 0, Witherington 3-3 1-2 7. Totals
2/3-46 21-35 7?.

1-1 0-
0-0 0.

Halftime-43-26, W&L. Three-point goals-EMC (6-
10) Chupp 3, Girigerich 3; W&L (3-ll) I-Iolton 2,
Casey 1. Total fouls-EMC 18, W&L 18. Teehincal
foul-EMC coach Fleming, Rebounds—EMC 27
(V .Tioyer, Leonard 5), W&L 26 (Holton 6).
Assists-EMC 8 (Cooper 3), W&L 7 (Holton 3). A-
833.

 

The old track around Wilson Fieldhas been replaced by a new Versiturf

track. Finishing touches are being added now. File photo.

New track completed;
needs finishing touch

By Blair Simmons
Staff Reporter

The men’s and women's track
teams will go first class this season
on the new $250,000 track around
Wilson Field, said Associate Athletic
Director Richard Miller.

President John Wilson and the
Board of Trustees approved funding
for the track last spring, following an
eight year campaign by Capital Proj-
ects, the uriiversity’s organization
which solicits funds for construction
projects.

Work on the track began in mid-
July and was to be completed by
Sept. 16. The surface was completed
on Nov. 24 and the finishing touches,
lines and an aluminum curb around
the inside of the track, will be com-
pleted in upcoming weeks, said Mill-
er.

Delay and cost over-riins were
caused in part by large amounts of
stone which had to be excavated to
accommodate the track’s drainage
system, said Miller. Blasting was not
an option because the stadium is
embedded in rock.

The old drainage system zig-zag-
ged under the northern half of the
football ﬁeld at depths ranging from
eight to 20 feet, making it difﬁcult to
ﬁnd. It is attached to the new system
at the comer of the ﬁeld by the
stadium.

The new drainage system goes
around the,_inside of the track and has
an additional pipe running along the

front of the stadium to handle heavy
run-off.

The drains are circular gates that
have the special feature of being able
to lock down Astroturf. This option
would make a future decision to put
Astroturf on the ﬁeld cheaper and
much more convenient. Miller said
the athletic department has no such
plans presently.

“We haven't even really looked
into Astroturf. We have other projects
that are more important and there are
a lot advantages and disadvantages to
Astroturf that must be considered,”
said Miller.

Astroturf causes more abrasions,
high-speed injuries and synthetic
material deterioration than does grass,
he said. It also lasts only about ten
years in outdoor stadiums.

The Versiturf surface on the track,
high-jump pit and pole-vault runway
is the most expensive brand on the
market and has a ﬁve-year rriinimurn,
ten-year maximum no maintenance
warranty, said Miller.

Made with Eurothane, the half-
inch surface is full-deptli color and
should not crack or show gouges or
ruts, Miller said.

It is the same type of surface
used at the 1984 Olympics in Los
Angeles. “It’s a super track, state-
of-the—art. It could be the best track
in existence today,” said Jolm Tuck-
er, the women’s track coach.

 

 

 W&L|FE

The Fling-tum Phi, January 18, 1990

The Fi’ing—z‘um Phi picks the best books of the set;

By Chris Swann
Staff Reviewer

The 1980s saw the rise of several
prominent authors and the continuing
success of many others. While not a
great decade from a major literary
point of view, many good novels and
short stories were written. I've
made, based on my own reading
experience, a list of ten good books
from the 80s.

People always ask me, "What’s
a good book to read?" or, "Is this
author any good?" I can only point
out things about a book that I think
make it good; you have to read it to
discover if it's "good" or not. Many
professors in the English Department
may cringe at the choices I’ve made,
and professional book critics might
howl in outrage at some of the works
zrs.well. As my defense, I will say
that I chose the books based on their
popularity, how well-written and
entertaining the stories were, and any
possible impact ,on or representation
of current literature and life in the.
1980s they may have had. Enter-
tainment is the key word, a book
that is entertaining and has some
literary value is, to me, a very good
book. If you're looking for a good
book, here are ten of them.~ Check
them out.

10.Liar's Poker by Michael Lew-
is, 1989. A hilarious portrayal of life
on Wall Street as the author becomes
a hireling in the prestigious ﬁrm ol
Salomon Brothers and writes of the
action behind closed doors: the exem-
ciating ﬁve-month training program,
the embarrassing first few days on
the trading ﬂoor, "blowing up" (ﬁnan-
cially ruining) clients by mistake, the
awesome amounts of money one can
make for picking up a phone, and the
ever-popular game of "Liar’s Poker"
played in one form or another by
everyone on Wall Street. Lewis
writes in a witty and very perceptive
tone as he describes the chaotic and
health-threatening existence on Ameri-
ca’s ﬁnancial center and the processes
of getting into, surviving through, and
getting out of the richest game in
town. A must for business or eco-
nomics majors, and very entertaining
and educational for anyone with a
mild interest in Wall Street.

9. Night Shift by Stephen King.
1978. I know, this wasn’t written in
the 80s. However, it represents the
writing style of America's premier
master of horror better than most of
his major works which he wrote in
the past decade. Edgar Allen Poe in
his essay “The Poetic Principle” said
that fiction (in his case as in King’s,
horror or the macabre) was best
written so as to produce a singular,
powerful effect on the reader in one
sitting. King does a magniﬁcent job
with this collection of short stories by
creating fiction in the tradition of
Poe. Over twenty stories are in-
cluded: a tale, written entirely in
letter form, about a haunted house

and its equally haunted and evil ,

town; an English teacher who calls
upon supernatural powers to combat
students in his class who have been
dead for years; a tormented man who
consults a psychiatrist about a "bo-
geyman" who has followed him for
years; a Kansas town taken over by
a twisted fundamentalist cult of
youngsters (eventually made into the
movie Children of the Corn); a bi-

_zarre service that guarantees to get
‘you to quit smoking (or else); an

even more bizarre service that will
mow your lawn in rriinutes using a
very strange method - the list goes
on and on. This is a great book for
people who don't have the time to
read an entire novel and who love
suspense, mystery and terror. It even
works for those people who claim
that they don't like or even believe in
tliesupernatural; still, is that really
just a shadow in the comer...

Other books by Stephen King:
Cujo, The Dark Tower series.

8. Gorky Park by Martin Cruz
Smith, 1981. A gritty, dark yet often
humorous novel which deals with a
Moscow investigator‘s attempt to
solve a triple murder. The opening
scene in Gorky Park with Arkady
Renko, the investigator, standing over
three frozen corpses, sans ﬁngers or
faces courtesy of a rather sharp knife,
sets the tone of this portrayal of
Russian life and the Moscow police.
Smith wrote this best-seller about a
country whose lifestyle was totally
alien to the West in 1981 before
glasnost and opened many eyes to
thecomplexities of Moscow’s envi-
ronment and the strangeness (com-
pared to the United States’s) of a
Russian's daily life. ' Oddly enough,
the bad guy is a rich, powerful
American, but he is not a stereotypi-
cal greedy millionaire, just as Renko
is not a stereotypical Russian, and the
reader ﬁnds himself totally on the
side of this Soviet cop who is be-
coming disenchanted with his life and
the Soviet system. The KGB agent
Pribluda and the dissident Irina, with
whom Renko falls in love with, are
somewhat stereotyped, but this fact is
usually hidden by the masterful writ-
ing of Smith. Renko’s sometime
partnership with the American Irish

cop Kirwill and the climatic chase in * -

New York City are told through the
eyes of a Soviet citizen who makes
the Big Apple look dark and foreign
and...capitalist. It works. A book
for serious readers who enjoy sus-
pense and serious plots.

Other books by Smith: Polar Star
(the sequel to Gorky Park).

7. Batman: The Dark Knight Re-
turns by Frank Miller, 1986. OK,
you've seen Adam West in tights on
TV, Michael Keaton in black on the
big screen, and you're sick of the
hoopla and publicity behind the
Caped Crusader. Worse, this work is
in comic book form. Before you
throw away this article in disgust.
read on further. This is a look at a
comic book hero that has never been
done before. Miller does an incredi-
ble job of portraying a world in the
very near future of slums, decaying
cities and urban riots which desper-
ately cries out for a hero and a repre-
sentative of justice, a value that
seems to have been thrown out of the
window. Alas, millionaire Bruce
Wayne has hung up his cowl anti
been retired from crime ﬁghting for
ten years after Robin was killed by
the Joker (now languishing in an
asylum), swearing never again to be
Batman. However, the return of
Harvey Dent, better known as the
criminal Two-Face, and his attempt to
ransom Gotham City for ntillions
prompts Wayne to don his costume
once again. The plot continues as
the now nearly sixty year old Batman
must combat an urban gang known
as the Mutants and finally face his
nemesis the Joker, all amid loud
protests and support alike for the
Batman from the public and police.
Superman is also present in an un-

J

 

  MCINERNEY.
 

"A rambunctious, deadly funny novel that goes
right for the marI<— the himiam heart."
~ It A if M I“. H D

  

A — Y

CARVER

Bright Lights, Big City ranked # 1

The rest of the 1980s Top Ten Book List follow in order:

The Lords of Discipline by Pat
The Hunt for Red October
The Bourne Identity by Robert

.‘°.°°.\'.°’.‘’‘.4'‘‘.‘*’.'°

, Night Shift by Stephen King
10. Liar’s Poker by Michael Lewis
likely role as an agent of the United
States government, and he too must
face the Batman. Sound silly? Take
one look at the graphics. They are
dark, more realistic portraits rather
than the colorful graphics that are
now found on comic book racks.
The story is grimmer, and Miller
makes age a factor as Batman ntust
deal with his mortality, unlike m()sl
comic book heroes who remain per-
petually in their late twenties and are
usually dead only temporarily. The
myth behind the Batman is as large
as ever, showing his origin and even
giving him scenes on horseback that
evoke images of King Arthur's
knights and of the lone cowboy hero
at high noon. This was the first oi‘
the "graphic novels" that appeared in
the 19803, and concerns a man who,
as Alan Moore states in the prologue,
teeters on the line between "a con-
cerned do-gooder and a revcnge—driv-
en psychopath." If you think you
know everything about this hero,
think again.

6. Tales From Margaritaville by
Jimmy Buffett, 1989. Didn’t some
guy already write a review of
tl1is?...A great collection of amusing
and touching short stories with an

Lonesome Dove by Larry McMurty

Conroy

by Tom Clancy

Ludlum

Tales from Magaritavi//e by Jimmy Buffett
Batman: The Dark Knight Returns‘ by Frank Miller
Gorky Park by Martin Cruz Smith

escape-to-a-better-life motif written by
one of the most original song writers
in America today in his ﬁrst attempt
at adult fiction.

5. The Bourne Identity by Robert
Ludlum, 1980. This author is the
unsurpassed writer of thrillers and
complex plots dealing with business,
governments and espionage. As the

jacket cover reads, "Robert Ludlum is’

the author of thirteen novels pub-
lished in thirty-two languages and
twentv-seven countries with world-
wide sales in excess of one hundred
sixty million copies." Enough said
for the author’s ability. This novel
(recently done as a TV rriini-series
with Richard Chamberlain) concerns
Jason Boume, a man who escapes a
ship foundering in a Mediterranean
storm with several bullet wounds, two
in his head. When he wakes up days
later in a tiny village on the French
coast, he has no recollection of who
he is or what he does, and a bit of
microﬁlm surgically implanted in his
hip is his only clue. It leads him to
a bank account in Zurich containing
millions and to mysterious men who
are determined to kill this man who
knows neither his crime or his identi-
ty other than his narne.This is a
suspenseful, labyrinthine, action-

‘.

Spring Flowers

Wrapped

103 N. Jefferson
Lexington. Va. 24450
-( 703) 463-9841

PAY FOR
MEDICAL
SCHOOL.

$ Today’s Air Force offers a

scholarship program that can
help pay the cost of medical
school. If selected, you can contin-
ue your present studies — and
stop worrying about how to pay
for them. Participation is based on
competitive selection. For informa-
tion with no obligation, talk to an
Air Force representative. Call

USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS
804-276-0459
Station-To-Station Collect

iilit:

'1 ll Illll

It-r" ’
W1)”

I s

College Shopping Square

   

 

Super-X Drugs

At Super-X Your Prescription
Needs Are Our Most Important Business.

I  C/i/(aitieltl gcfm Qiilijleii

Call for appointment
All Students Welcome

packed novel that leads the reader to
a super-secret group in the heart of
Washington, lies on top of lies in the
highest levels of government, and an‘
infamous terrorist known only as
Carlos as Jason Boume must discover
why he has the abilities to outshoot
and outﬁght his adversaries as well
as ﬁght to save his sanity and the
woman he loves. A powerful, grip-
ping book that will keep you turning
the pages until the cold hours of the
early morning.

Other .books by Ludlum: The
Chancellor Manuscript, The
Rhinemann Exchange, The Icarus
Agenda, The Bourne Supremacy.

4. The Hunt For Red October by
Tom Clancy, 1984. This novel
started the incredible career of novel-
ist Tom Clancy, a former insurance
salesman who gave up his career for
novels. Thank God. This man can
tell a great story, and he relies on the
American fascination with technology
and how things work in this high-
tech, seafaring story about a defecting
Soviet supersub. CIA analyst Jack
Ryan is thrown into "the field" to
prove his theory that the maverick
Soviet Captain Marko Rarnius intends
to defect with the Soviet Navy's
finest sub, Red October. Both the‘
United States and the Soviet Union’s
navies are searching for the sub, and
tensions rim high in this complex
story of defection, espionage, military
power and intrigue written by Ameri-
ca’s newest great writer. The descrip-
tions of submarine combat, naval
operations and high-tech equipment
are corriplicated, although enthralling
and totally realistic. Clancy used
information from naval sources avail-
able to the general public to create
this story, ﬁlling in the gaps with his
own active imagination. Clancy's
knowledge of the Soviet government
and military rriind is so great that he
is reported to be a consultant for the
United States Central Intelligence
Agency. Regardless, he knows his
stuff in this novel.

Other books by the author: Red
Storm Rising, Patriot Games, The
Cardinal of the Kremlin, Clear and
Present Danger.

3. The Lords of Discipline by Pat
Conroy, 1982. Pat Conroy is_ one of
the South's great authors from both
an entertainment perspective and a
literary one. His writing ﬂows with
the rich descriptions of the South
Carolina port of Charleston and with
the internal tiirmoils his characters
must face. In this novel, arguably
his best, his hero Will McLean, a
senior cadet at the ﬁctional Carolina
Military Institute (created from the
examples of The Citadel, West Point
and VMI), must in 1966 make sure
the Iristitute’s first black cadet gets a
fair chance to make it through the
Plebe System of hazing. Racial
prejudices and Will’s own anti-hero-
ical attitude make his task difﬁcult.
Will is one of Conroy's most power-
ful characters, a man who must come
to terms with the meaning of honor,
friendship, pride, injustice, and the
Vietnam War, while he combats an
elite and mysterious group of cadets
known only as "The Ten." He con-
fronts his own sexuality as he falls in
love with a haunting yet beautiful
girl. Passion and betrayal run deep in
this novel, and the mythical proper-
ties of the Old South and a corrupt
military academy are brought to shin-
ing life by Conroy. One of the most
powerful books that I have ever read.

Other books by Conroy: Boo, The

    

463-7126

463-9588

GRAND PRIZE

4 nights for two at the Bahamas Princess

Freeport, Bahamas

Includes air fare from Richmond, hotel transfers, and $50 of hotel gift certiﬁcates. (Thursday - Monday)
Raise money and dance for

UPERDANCE

February 2-3

(Minimum Donation to be eﬁible - $250

 

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

Water Is Wide, The Great sanzint,’ The
Prince Of Tides. 3

2. Lonesome Dove by Ilarry
McMurtry, 1985. The epic Pulitzer
Prize-winriing novel of the Old West
and an amazing cattle drive up to
Montana from the town of Lonespme
Dove in south Texas. McMurtry has
created some of the richest characters '
in his brilliant career: Augustus
McCrae, an ornery, brave and caring
ex-Texas Ranger who lightens these I
pages with his wit and acti ns;
Woodrow Call, the head of the Hat
Creek Outﬁt who hides his ow
private demons as he leads his men
north to Montana; Lorena Woodfthe
beautiful blonde whore who is s.ap- ,
tured by Indians and, unbelievably,
falls in love; Jake Spoon, maveiick ‘
gambler and a man on the run ,l‘or
murder who ﬁrst prompts the trip to
Montana and rides to a terrible late;
Newt, the young cowhand eager‘ to
prove himself to his idol, Captain .
Call; Blue Duck, a renegade Indian
who teirorizes the land the Hat Creek
company must ride through; and The
Boys, the young men who take ton
Call’s offer to ride north and follow
him and McCrae through stampcdcs,
storms and Indians in this masterpigcc
of the American Frontier. A rich anti
descriptive work of a time and‘ (1
culture that has always fascinated t'he ‘
American public.

Other books by McMurtsy:
Texasville, Anything For Billy.

Drum roll, please... j

1. Bright Lights, Big City by Jay
Mclnemey, 1984. Forget the horriirlc
ﬁlm starring Michael J. Fox (which I

have never seen but heard it mostly é. ,

consisted of a badly miscast stpr""'
snorting an incredible amount o
cocaine). This book is both a litcrair}
and entertaining masterpiece. Dar
humor is the order of the day as’
young man, remaining unnamed, livt.
in a whirlwind life of nightclub
editorial ofﬁces, parties and, yes,
cocaine as he attempts to "outstrip
mortality" as the book cover suggests
and find some meaning to his bizarre,
nearly out-of—control life. Mclnemcy
uses the second person style of point
of view, substituting "I" with "you‘
in order to further draw the readc;
into this amazing novel. The author
‘depicts the New York life of Hit?
-1980s unerringly: materialism, greed,
drugs, sex, and the party scene are
described in a witty, cynical, and
often hilarious tone as the "hero" oi,"
the story is drawn into the chaotic
life he leads by his best friend and‘
his own misfortune. We recognize,‘
the man's disintegrating morals yet
immediately sympathize with him as‘
he searches to ﬁnd out who he really
is and answer the question found in
the prologue: which is worse, living»
an illusion or losing it? The novel is

not very long, permitting people with""

little time for 500+ page books to;
read and enjoy this fascinating story.

In twenty years, this novel will be’
widely read by English students as an ,
example of the hedonistic lifestyle ol’

the 1980s, much as The Great Gatsby “
depicted the lifestyle of the "Roaring ,

20 
sOther books by Mclnemeyz Ran- ,

som, Story Of My Life. A
There is no possible way that a’
list of ten books could represent the ,
popular literature of the 1980s.
Thousands of good novels were writ- 9
ten in the last decade; I hope you

  
  
  
  
 

will read more of them than these I
ten. Happy reading. 5
it

9

CATHOLIC ,

CAMPUS
MINISTRY ,

St. Patrick’s Church I

Mass Schedule: '
Saturday 5:00 p.m. ’
Sunday 8:00 & 10:30 a.m.
 

SPAGHE'I'TI DINNER Sat., Jan. 20

Every Thursday at 3:00 p.m., all
students are invited to Church Hall for
discussion, fellowship and prayer.

ciudiotronics

VIRGININS STEREO SPECIALIST

DENON ALPINE
ADCOM BOSTON
8&0 CWD

KEF SONANCE
SIGNET B&K
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

following 5:00 mass ',

 

 

    

v

M‘

“Moscow

afis left

_:behind’

I

By Max Gan
.‘Speclal to the Phi

4

Moscow is left behind with its
‘crowded streets, with empty shelves
‘in its stores and long lines of people,

with all the problems that the human
‘mind can ever think of. Here I am in
(America, after carpets of red tape and
ten thousand kilometers of traveling,
«answering thousands of questions,
while at the same time, hearing a lot
'of unpleasant things about my coun-
dry. I am trying to stay in good spir-
its and preserve some sense of hu-
‘mot, although I am having night-
,mares in Russian and daydreams in
English -— in other words, being a
‘Russian exchange student.

' As a Soviet foreign exchange
student, I constantly am asked the
«following questions:

0 How’s Gorbi ?

- How do you like perestroika?

5 ° What year is it in the Soviet
Union?
‘ - I’ve heard the food there is
Junky?

- Is it mandatory to be a member
tof the Communist party?

- You don’t have any religion, do
‘you?

v - Do you really want to conquer
us? »
‘ ' What do people drink: coffee,
tea or just vodka?

Such questions have their own
personality; they are different, just

8' like the people who ask them. Some

are humorous and friendly, some
stupid and annoying, and some are
tiresome and exhausting.
After a few months I really be-
came a “KGB question addict.”
Sometimes the day even seemed
gloomy if I did not hear the farriiliar
words. After being asked for approxi-
ately the 100th time if I were a
GB agent, I decided to go along
with the joke and give everybody a
positive answer. If I had only thought
i ‘of the consequences! The next thing
‘I heard was: “We knew it all
. along!" No matter what the questions
'are, one can feel that attitudes to-

§

The Rlng-tum Phl, January 18, 1990

ward Soviets have changed during the
past few years. It seems to me that
most people feel that we are no
longer “the bad,” although we are
not “the good” either. Where do we
fit in? To most people Russians still
looks exotic, even though we are
ordinary human beings without horns
and tails, have children and even
hangovers. As well, strong feelings of
cautiousness and carefulness always
seem to be present when they
encounter Soviets. People tend to
keep a certain distance in relations
with “the Russians.”

I think that the time has come to
change the current situation and try
to keep politics out of the relations
between people. Who knows that the
Red Square is named so not because
the Soviet Union is a communist
country, but because the word “red”
in old Russian language meant
“beautiful?” ( I don’t think many
people do.)

Americans should know that the
harsh, cold image of Siberia is not
necessarily that of the entire Soviet
Union. People go there mostly be-
cause they want to and maybe love
the beautiful landscape.

Also, people in the Soviet Union
should understand that if a person in
the USA goes on a hunger strilte, it
is not necessarily a protest against
government policy, but a way to lose
some weight.

Years of propaganda and mutual
distrust between nations have done
their deed. Situations in which simply
the mention of the Soviet Union has
an effect on people equal to that of

red color on a raging bull, are rare,
but still many tend to associate the
word “Russian” with something
suspicious.

What really amazes me is that
people do not even bother to ﬁnd out
what the “truth” about the Soviet
Union is. Some people do not really
know anything about the Soviet
Union. You can summarize their
knowledge with the words “winter,
KGB, perestroika, glasnost, vodka,
caviar."

Of course, I am far from blaming
only the American side for this situa-
tion. Probably in most cases it is our
fault. We have problems (who
doesn't ?) and deserve criticism, but
criticism that is based on sound argu-
ments and facts, not on quicksand.

Stereotypes are the enormous
barriers that we must overcome. And
we can only do it together. The Iron
Curtain was built not only between
the nations but between individuals
also. Even though this barrier is not
made of stainless steel and is getting
rusty now, we have a long way to go
to dismantle it completely. It is unfair
that our people have been deprived of
the opportunity to communicate with
each other, and denied the access to
other cultures for decades. It is time
to turn from the age of the cold war
to the age of discovery. Already
what was unthinkable a year ago
today is becoming routine.

The interest in the USSR is
growing. I just hope that it is not a
trend that will come and go. After
all, aren’t our nations making the
political weather all over the world?

Rising soprano to perform

From the W&L News Office

Dawn Upshaw, a rising young
soprano at the Metropolitan Opera
and other international opera com-
panies, will perform at Washington
and Lee University Tuesday, Jan. 23.

She will be aocompariied by Mar-
go Garret, one of today's leading
collaborative pianists.

Selections to be performed by
Upshaw are Henry Purcell’s “The

Blessed Virgin's Expostulation
(1963)", five pieces by Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart, “Sieben fruhe

Lieder” (1908) by Alban Berg, Frari-
cis Pou1enc’s “Financailles pour rire"
(1939), and six selections by Samuel
Barber.

With engagements at the Metropo-
litan Opera, the Salzbburg Festival,
the Aix-en-Provence Festival, and
many international orchestras and
recital stages, Upshaw is becoming
known throughout the world.

Recently her schedule has in-
cluded concerts with the Kronos

Quartet and appearances with the
orchestras of SC Louis, Boston and
Minnesota, and opera engagements in
Vienna and Hamburg. In March she
will sing the role of Zerlina in Fran-
co Zeffere1li’s new production of
Mozart’s Don Giovanni, conducted by
James Levine, at the Metropolitan
Opera.

Born in Nashville and raised in
Illinois, Upshaw graduated from Il-
linois Wesleyan University and con-
tinued her vocal studies at the Man-
hattan School of Music.

In 1984, at the beginning of her
career, she won the Young Concert
Artist lntemational Auditions, and in
the same year joined the Metropolitan
Opera's Young Artists Development
Program. She made her Metropolitan
Opera debut as the Countess Ceprano
in Rigoletto during the 1984-85 sea-
son.
In 1987-88, in addition to ap-
pearances at the Metropolitan Opera,
Upshaw sang with the Los Angeles
Philharmonic in Maliler’s Second
Symphony under Zubin Mehta, sang

her first performances with Nikolaus
Hamoncourt and the Concentus Mus-
icus in Bach's Christmas Oratorio in
Vienna, appeared with New York's
Chamber Music Society of Lincoln
Center, and made a coast-to-coast

"recital tour with presenters including

Washington's Library of Congress,
Minneapolis’ Schubert Club, Chicago
Arts Club, and Los Angeles Ambas-
sador Foundation.

Upshaw has numerous recordings,
some forthcoming on Nonesuch,
Telarc, Deutch Grarrirnophon, and
EM} labels.

On Wednesday, Jan. 24, Upshaw
will conduct a master class in Lee
Chapel which will begin at 10:30
a.m. All interested auditors are wel-
gome to attend free of charge.

The concert, which is sponsored
by the W&L Concert Guild, will
begin at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Tick-
ets will be available at the door.
Admission is $6 for adults, $4 for
senior citizens‘ and non-W&L stu-
dents, and free to the W&L com-
.m“ni‘)’-

George McNeil to exhibit art

From the W&L News Office

Paintings and lithographs by fa-
mous American artist George McNeil
will be on exhibit in duPont Gallery
Jan. 15 - Feb. 16. A lecture and
reception for McNeil will be held in
the gallery Ian. 30 at 7 p.m.

The exhibits at W&L will include
four large oil paintings, painted be-
tween 1984 and 1988, and 20 litho-
graphs dated 1974-1985.

McNeil has been called the “Mas-
ter of American Expressionism, be-
longing to the generation of William
deKooning, Franz Kline, Jackson
Pollock and Phillip Guston.” He has
been painting for over 50 years, one
of the original abstract expressionists
of the 1950s, and has never given up
his expressionistic mode.

McNeil’s large paintings of the
1960s and 1970s are mostly abstract-
ed landscapes and simplified single
ﬁgures. In the 1980s, he began using

narrative subject matter pertaining to

contemporary culture -— punk rockers, ‘

discos, pop singers, graffiti and foot-
ball players. He calls these subjects
a “celebration of freedom." His
most recent work deals with the
madness of city life. His paintings,
which have a strong psychological
twist, are vividly bold, and the tex-
ture rich with overlays, scrapings and
scumblings.

McNeil was born in 1908 in New
York. In 1926, he entered the gener-
al art program at Pratt Institute in
Brooklyn, beginning his lifelong
dedication to painting, drawing and
teaching. From 1930-31, he studied
at the Art Students League, and from
1932-36, he studied with Hans Hoff-
marm. He joined the Navy in 1943.

After World War H, McNeil re-
turned to Pratt as director of the
evening school, where he taught from
1948 until 1981. While at Pratt, he
brought in numerous well-known
artists among them Guston, Kline,
Adolph, Gottlieb, Jimmy Ernst and

Milton Resnick. McNeil has also
taught at the New York Studio
School and has served as visiting
artist at American University (Wash-
ington, D.C.)

Since 1941, McNeil has had over
30 one—person exhibitions in museums
and galleries across the country,
including the Museum of Modern
Art, the Whitney Museum, the Gug-
genheirn, the Corcoran Gallery, the
San Francisco Museum of Modern
Art, and the Chicago Art Institute.
His paintings are in the permanent
collections of many of these muse-
ums, and in university collections
across the country.

McNeil recently was awarded the
first Richard Koopman Distinguished
Chair in the Visual Arts at the Han-
ford Art School of the University of
Hartford. He has also received the
National Institute of Arts and Letters
Award, the American Academy of
Arts and Letters Award, a Guggen-
heim Fellowship, and a National
Council on the Arts Award.

  because ALL Fiatcniities
oppose racism!

Racism has no place in the fraternity
experience.

It is counter to everything fraternities stand
for. It does not encourage bonds of friendship
based upon individual merit and achievement.’ It
does not demonstrate leadership. It does not
prove an individual’s or a group’s superior
qualifications in any way.

We, the men's general fraternities united in the
National lnterfratemity Conference, are dedi-
cated and determined to deal with racism.

We stand united in our affirmation of basic
standards of human behavior.

We instill the principles of diligence, honor,
integrity. virtue, duty and respect for human
dignity. - '

Consider these facts:

- Although 35 years have passed since the Su-
preme C ourt's historic‘ decision striking down
racially segregated school systems, the major-
ity of our colleges and universities are still
predominantly segregated by race.

- Despite the passage ofa quarter century since
the Civil Rights Act was enacted by the U.S.
Congress constant vigilance is still required to
assure all our citizens equal treatment under
the law.

- As the country's population grows, new mi-
norities such as Asians and Hispanics are
beginning to experience the frustrations and
outrages of prejudice once reserved for Irish.
German, Polish, Roman Catholic or African
Americans.

- By the year 2020 about 40% ofAmerica’s
workforce will be comprised of African-
Americans. Asians, Hispanics, and North
American Indians.

This is what we’re doing about it:

- The spirit of brotherhood knows no color,
creed, religion or national origin; we are
working actively to promote cultural, religious
and racial diversity in our memberships and
will oppose acts of racism.

- Fraternities seek excellence wherever it may
be found and seek to educate members that
those who discriminate on the basis of race
defraud only themselves.

- Through leadership opportunities, cooperative
governing, service and social eﬁforts, frater-
nity chapters of diﬂering memberships are-
providing every day learning experiences
which combat racism.

- We believe the strength and success of Amer-
ica's future will rest on cultural and racial
diversity built on the high moral standards of
virtue, diligence and integrity exemplified by
the Fraternity experience; we expect Fraterni-
ties to grow and build on that diversity also.

Violation of our standards leads to swift and
certain sanctions: ranging from directives to
probation to suspension to expulsion —— even to
revocation of charter and dissolution of chapter.
We’re serious about racism and we think you
ought to know it.

If you think a brother's qualifications can be
judged on the color of his skin, hair or eyes, the
religion of his parents, or the homeland of his
ancestors then you’ve missed a great lesson fra-
temities have to offer. But if you’re interested in
finding out how the leaders of tomorrow can
experience the value of brotherhood based on
mutual respect and admiration for individual
achievement then write to us at the Fraternity
Executives Association, 3901 W. 86th St, Suite
390, Indianapolis, IN 46268.

We’re in the business of developing leaders
with integrity: brotherhood is an essential ingre-
dient.

America's
Fratermties
“Developing Integrity In lcadcrship"

‘I939

EBACK PAGE

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 18, 1990

American Music Awards

POP/ ROCK

Favorite Male Vocalist
' " Bobby Brown
' Richard Marx
" John Cougar Mellencamp

Favorite Female Vocalist
" Paula Abdul
' Anita Baker
" Madonna

Favorite Duo or Group
' Bon Jovi
' Milli Vanilli
" New Kids on the Block

Favorite Single
" “Don't Wanna Lose You”
(Gloria Estefan)
' “Girl You Know It's True"
(Milli Vanilli)
" “l’ll Be There For You”
(Bon Jovi)

Favorite Album

" Don't Be Cruel
(Bobby Brown)

' Forever Your Girl
(Paula Abdul)

' Hangin’ Tough
(New Kids on the Block)

Favorite New Artist
" Living Colour
' Milli Vanilli
" The Traveling Wilburys

SOUL/RHYTHM & BLUES

Favorite Male Vocalist
' Bobby Brown
‘ Prince
' Luther Vandross

Favorite Female Vocalist
' Paula Abdul
‘ Anita Baker
' Stephanie Mills

Favorite Duo or Group

" Guy
' The O'Jays
" Soul II Soul

Favorite Single
* “Just Because”
(Anita Baker)

' “Keep On Movin”’
(Soul II Soul)

’ “Miss You So Much”
(Janet Jackson)

Favorite Album

" Don't Be Cruel

(Bobby Brown)

' Karen White
(Karyn White)

‘ Let's Get It Started
(M.C. Hammer)

Favorite New Artist
' Babyface
‘ Milli Vanilli
‘ Soul II Soul

COUNTRY

Favorite Male Vocalist
" George Strait
" Randy Travis
" Hank Williams Jr.

Favorite Female Vocalist
‘ Reba McEntire
' K.T. Oslin
' Dolly Parton

Favorite Duo or Group
* Alabama
' Highway 101
" The Judds

Favorite Single
' “Baby’s Gotten Good at Goodbye”
(George Strait)
' “Deeper Then The Holler"
(Randy Travis)
‘ “If I Had You”
(Alabama)

Favorite Album

‘ Beyond the Blue Neon
(George Strait)

’ Greatest Hits Ill
(Hank Williams, Jr.)

' Old 8x10
(Randy Travis)

Favorite New Artist
" Clint Black
‘ Cee Cee Chapman
" Skip Ewing

HEAVY METAL

finalists named

Favorite Artist

" Aerosmith
' Guns N’ Roses
' Motley Crue

Favorite Album

' Appetite for Destruction
(Guns N’ Roses)

" Dr. Feelgood
(Motley Crue)

' Skid Row
(Skid Row)

Favorite New Artist

" Skid Row
' Warrant
' Winger

RAP

Favorite Artist

" Eazy-E
' M.C. Hammer
' Tone Loc

Favorite Album

' Eazy-Duz-/t
(Eazy-E)

" Let's Get It Started
(M.C. Hammer)

' Loc’ed After Dark
(Tone Loc)

Favorite New Artist
' Eazy-E
" Tone Loc
' Young M.C.

DANCE

Favorite Artist
' Paula Abdul
' Bobby Brown
' Janet Jackson

Favorite Single
‘ “Back to Life"
(Soul II Soul)-
' “Like A Prayer"
(Madonna)
' “Miss You Much"
(Janet Jackson)

Favorite New Artist
' De La Soul
' Soul II Soul
' Tone Loc

 

WANTED!!!

Students to join the 1990 Student Travel Services‘ Sale Team. Earn CASH and/or

FREE Spring Break travel marketing Spring Break packages to Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, and Daytona Beach. For more information call l»800A648—4849.

Lookwhat    
Else GoesDown 
WithTheSun
AtMassanutten.

$20.
éio.

If you’re in college, you're eligible for these great discounts on Twilight
Skiing every Monday, from 12:30pm to 10 pm, and Friday, from 12:30 pm
to 11pm. It doesn’t matter whether you're full or part-tirne. Just show a valid
student ID and hit Massanutten’s two new slopes and ride the new

Quad Chairlift.

Sl<iMassanutten
10 Miles East Of Harrisonburg, Virginia On Route 33.

May not be used with any other special rate or discount.

‘/0.’

We Make Fitness Fun!
16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

Weatherby® 0FIemington®

CLASSIFIED

PERSONALS

Paula,

on January l9th!!
Anne

HELP WANTED

250-1000 Summer Camp
Positions Available.
Staff Referral ‘Services provides

a network of camps, now hiring,
from the "Keys" to Wisc.-Minn.

Happy 21st Birthday

January 19 to January 31

EBIIZALJANLIABXJQ
Robert E. Lee's Birthday.

12:15 p.m.
be given by W&L President John D. Wilson. Lee

Chapel. Public invited. (Adjusted class schedule). '

4:30 p.m. LECTURE: "Geology of Venus," James Head III,

FOUNDERS' DAYIODK CONVOCATION: Address to Q

Brown University. Northen Auditorium, University

Library. Public invited.

1 p.m. SWIMMING (M&W): Generals vs. Georgetown.
Twombly Pool.
OPERA BROADCAST: Cosi Fan Tutte (Mozart).

WLUR-FM (91.5).

1:30 p.m.

2 p.m.
Center.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WRESTLING: Newport
News Apprentice;
INDOOR TRACK: Virginia Tech Invitational.

MONDAY, JANUARY 22
2 - 4 p.m. WORDPERFECT SEMINAR: Part One (2 p.m.): An

Overview oi the Entire WordPertect Line; Part Two I

(3 p.m.): A Preview of WordPerfect 5.1 and New
Features. Open to all W&L and VMI faculty and

BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Queens College. Warner o

staff. Board Room, Moody Hall (re-scheduled from

Dec. 12).
RED CROSS CPR COURSE: 500-level Classroom,
Warner Center. Must attend all three classes for

7-10p.m.

certification (1l22, 1/24, 1/26). For information, call 0

Cinda Rankin, 463-8687. Open to the public.
8 pm.‘
John Updike, novelist, poet, critic. Lee Chapel.
Public invited. (“ PLEASE NOTE: Change in
time for Updike reading from last week's Weeky

GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A Reading by I

Calendar. Reading will be at 8 p.m., not 4:30 p.m.

as previously listed).

A

4 p.m.
University Center. '

MARTIN LUTHER KING PROGRAM: Speaker: Noel
Taylor, mayor of Roanoke. Northen Auditorium,
University Library. Reception to follow in
Boatwright Room. Public invited.

BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney.
Warner Center.

CONCERT GUILD: Dawn Upshaw, soprano,

4:30 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

Metropolitan Opera star. Lee Chapel. Reception tr

follow at W&L Alumni House.

 

10:30 a.m. Master Class with Dawn Upshaw. Lee Chapel.

7 - 10 p.m. RED CROSS CPR COURSE: Warner Center.

4 p.m. LECTURE: "Paths of Righteousness, Paths of Glory:
Leadership in America and the Church,‘ The Most
Rev. Edmond L. Browning, Presiding Bishop of the
Episcopal Church. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

5 p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Susan Bienert '90. Room
401, Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30.

7:30 p.m. BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Emory and Henry.

Warner Center.

EXHIBITIONS

DUPONT GALLERY: ‘George McNeil: Paintings and Lithographs"
(through Feb. 16). Gallery hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through
Friday. Admission is free.

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: "Recent Boatwright Fund
Acquisitions" (through Feb. 1).

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: "Parallel
Letters--Parallel Lives: The Correspondence of Lee and Jackson‘

CD&P: Cover LetterlResume Workshop. Room 109,

(through January). Hours are 9 am. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.

COMMERCE SCHOOL, MAIN LOBBY AND READING
ROOM: "Paintings by Kathleen Olson." <

f

I

D

b

0

b

9
U
1

V

¥

V

A

L

9

  

R.E. Lee Memorial Church

Sunday Services

8:30 — Holy Eucharist - Rite I

9:20 - Church School

10:30 - Holy Eucharist - Rite II
B 5:00 - Holy Eucharist - Rite II

Best prices on Hunting
Equipment & Clothing too!

 

enuurnizssg

18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington 463-1800

:L..._._

Use this form to order...

PERSONALS

Personal ads may be submitted to The Ring—tum Phi office, on the second ﬂoor of the university
center, or can be mailed to: Personals, P.O. Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. Ads must be recieved
in the office by Tuesday at 3:00pm for inclusion in the following Thursday's edition. Submissions
of questionable content may be rejected by the editors, and a refund will be given.

/_[///////////////////l////

Rates are: $2.50 for the first four
lines and $.75 for each additional
line (up to 8 total lines).There are
24 characters per line; caps count
as two characters.

//////////////////////////

PAYMENT MUST ACCOMPANY SUBMISSION
______ -_91_1.e9§§-t9;_I'3e_13£'1a£y1v1_13LIi____________

Ll////////////////////////
//////////////////////////

L-:«——--—-——-—-——--———--—I—4--——----—--—--1--—

 

Br°wning® ,M°ssbe|,g® One application reaches all
We will not be undersold °amp.s .wa master computer‘
by anyone! Applications at the Career
Development and Placement

 Office.
Counselors for residential
scope Moumgsare summer programs at UVA for
3- h- -th h _ gifted students. June 20 to
'9 ""9 W. pure ase August 4, 1990. Room 260

Ruffner Hall or call:
(804) 924-3182

  

IillII“IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

9:: 6:00 - Undergraduate Group Bible Study
Topic: The Moral Teachings of Paul —

Relationships between Women &
Men, Marriage, and Sexuality

Aluitt-lﬂrttttia
Winter SALE

Sport Coats&  off
Sweaters  off
Woolrich Flannel Shirts  off
Sport Shirts  off
Corduroy Pants  off
 off
Top off
Rack Price
Scarves-Robes-PJ’s................................................1l2 Price
Turtleneck Shirts&Gloves.............‘..,...........................20% off
Group ofDress Pants  Price
Wool Pants  off ..,.

Since 1963

   

 

 
    
   
   
     
   
 

 
 
    
   
   

  

MasterCard

 
 

 

 
  

 

