-A

no

//lrC»h.
-5 “s‘i2."i5EZ
K55;
vi 361
140.3
r~ '/

Z _.
.. 4....

VOLUME 89, NO. 6

    

Vitae

wk
-an
anm-» —
my
SIN

Lee remembered

Three Liberty Hall Volunteers stand at attention
during a memorial service marking the anniversa-
ry oi the death of Gen. Robert E. Lee. The ser-
vice, held in Lee Chapel last Thursday, featured

Patrick Hinely.

an address by Prof. Taylor Sanders. The first of
two articles adapted from his speech appears on
page two of this week's Phi. W&L photo by W.

EC ends SAB charging

 

By Melinda Conkling
Stafl’ Reporter

The Executive Committee has
eliminated all charging privileges for
the Student Activities Board in an
effort to stop unaccounted spending
and will sttidy a proposal to extend
the bait on charging to all
EC—funded organizations.

The SAB, which lost at least
S23,(t00 last year, is still receiving
bills, the EC learned at its meeting
lVlontlay.

Roses’ stores sent a bill for
$816 last week, a re—order, for .
t-shirts will cost $1,300, and a

82,089 walkie-talkie rental bill came
in last month, SAB Treasurer Katie
Duwcl told the EC.

Freshman
class runoff
held today

lit.’ Jason Kelley
Staff‘ Reporter

Elections for freshman Executive

Committee representative, class
presiclent, and vice president were
held today after a Tuesday’s

preliminary vote forced a run off in
all three races.

About 80 percent of the.
iT('s‘lllllCi1 voted in the preliminary

Clvctioti, according to Voting
Rcgttltitions Board President Wes
Goings.

t .

l”ve been involved in this for
three years, and this is by far the
largest turnout I’ve seen,” said
Goings. “But freshmen generally
Itl‘.‘i out in large numbers for these
clectiotis."

According to Goings, the vote
wits very close and in two cases;
only one vote separated those who

riizicle it into the runoffs from those
who (lid not.

The vote for EC representative
was distributed among twelve

etnitlitltites, with Sean D. Gatewood
and Josh MacFarland each receiving
eiiough votes to face off in today's
rtniolf.

(.}atewood, when asked why he
lililllglll he was the most qualiﬁed
for the post, said, “What made me
want to come to W&L Was, in part,
the Honor System and the freedom
it tillows the students. I want to be
a part of that."

M ac Farland said he had
CXliL‘i'lCllCC with an honor system
like Washington and Lee’s in high
scho<>l.

The only female make it to any
of the runoffs was class president
caiididate Kimberly Gladysz.

"There’s no point to sexism in
this ctiinpaign,” said her opponent,
Rieliziitl Burke. “The one who is
niost qualified should be elected. If
aiiyone brought up the issue of
sexisni in this campaign, it was
her.”

But Gladysz said, “There
should be no sexist slant on this

Cl0C1i<>Ii. and the better candidate
should win.”

’ "“>’»:5.» .

Junior Rep. John Fialcowitz met
with University Controller John
Cuny last week to discuss improve-
ments of the EC ﬁnancial system.
They agreed the main problem (last
year was SAB cost over-runs, said
Fialcowitz.

“A way to solve over-runs is to
eliminate all charge accounts. This
is not a punitory measure against
the SAB. This is not a personnel
problem,” Fialcowitz said. “We’re
questioning the structure (of SAB
spending). Structures don’t change
from year to year but people do,”
said Fialcowitz.

Charge accounts are primarily
used for concerts and Fancy Dress,
SAB officers told the EC. If the
SAB runs out of ice or soda during
a concert, SAB workers used the

charge accounts to pay for “emer-
gency” items.

Although many of the supplies
needed for FD decorations are
ordered months in advance, during
the last couple of weeks before FD,
the “crush period,” the FD commit-
tee often needs extra supplies, SAB
officers said.

According to Hitz, charge
accounts are needed because it’s not
possible to get a check from the
Business Ofﬁce during non—business
hours.

In order to accommodate any
such emergencies during the “crush
period," the SAB wll- cash —checks
and use that money to pay for
emergency items, according to FD
Auditor Terrence Fowler.

Cl Please see EC page 3

Deaver describes

his fight with alcohol

By Andrew Waters
Staff Reporter

“I'm Mike and I'm an
alcoholic,” the former deputy chief
of staff for President Ronald Reagan
said calmly as he took the podium
Monday night in Lee Chapel. It’s a
greeting he said he uses in
Alcoholics Anonymous meetings.

After apologizing for appearing
too formal in his suit and tie,
Michael Deaver told the audience of
about 225 in Lee Chapel his history
of alcoholism and praised AA and
similar education programs as the
few. effective ways to ﬁght a
drinking problem.

His hour—long speech,
“Alcoholism: One man's battle
against his personal dreams,” was
co—sponsored by the Washington and
Lee Health Education Committee
and Contact, with additional funding
from the Interfratemity Council.
W&L is one of more than 2000
colleges participating in the National
Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week.

His tie loosened and his top
shirt button undone, Deaver
described his problems with
alcoholism, which he said is a
disease.

Deaver said he shunned alcohol
while growing up to avoid the
problems he saw with his alcoholic
parents - until he joined a fraternity
during his second year in college.
By the time he left college, he said,

he had someone to drink with every
day.

Deaver’s ability to play the
piano took him around the world as
a performer in bars.

“That was like a kid in a candy
store," he said, “because everybody
wanted to get the piano player
drunk, and I went along with that.”

He wound up playing a bar in
California and, he said, "one thing
led to another, I got into politics,"
and thus began his relationship with
Reagan. Deaver followed Reagan
into the White House in 1980 as
deputy chief of staff, a position he
held for 4 1/2 years.

Deaver said he didn‘t drink
much until about 1983, when he
began making trips to the far east
aboard planes with well-stocked
bars.

“I found out when I got back
that I was saying to myself, ‘it’s
OK to take a drink at 10:00 in the
morning because it’s 5:00 where
I’ve just been.’” It was at that
point, he said, that alcohol took
over and he couldn’t get through the
day without drinking.

“In this society, it’s not a very
honorable thing to admit,” Deaver
said with a pause, “that I drank
vodka in the White House. But I
did. And I couldn’t stop.”

In May of 1985, after two stays
in the hospital, Deaver left politics
and began his own lobbying ﬁrm.
After six months on the wagon, he
began drinking again amid

LEX|NGTON.V|RGlNlA

 

OCTOBER 19, 1989

W&L movin’ on up

School places 18th, 22nd in rankings

By Lee Fleming
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee has once again fared well in
national college and university rankings by U.S. News
and World Report and USA Today.

In the U.S. News ranking of “National Liberal-Arts
Colleges,” Washington and Lee placed 18th out of the
top 25 schools.

Last year W&L placed 24th in the same category.

The U.S. News ranking, which is based largely on a
survey of college presidents and deans around the
country, assigns the schools a composite score based
on ﬁve categories.

Each school was graded on the basis of academic
reputation, student selectivity, retention patterns, faculty.
and ﬁnancial resources.

Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania ranked first in
the category with a perfect score of 100.0.

W&L, the only Virginia school in the category,
received a 78.2.

Also in the U.S. News “1990 College Guide” was
a list of the “Best Buys” in higher education. This list
included the schools with the lowest tuitions among the
top-rariked schools in each category.

In its category of “National Liberal Arts Colleges,”
W&L finished as the overall best buy. Its tuition of
$10,100 a year, the magazine points out, is
approximately one third less than Swarthmore’s.

In the USA Today ranking of the “USA’s Choosiest
Colleges,” W&L appears 22nd on a list of 52.

To appear in the ranking, a school must accept
fewer than half its applicants and its freshman must
average at least 1200 on the SAT.

According to the listing, W&L accepted 28.9
percent of its applicants for the class of 1993. The
average SAT score of W&L freshmen was 1236.

Topping the list was the U.S. Coast Guard
Academy in New London, Connecticut, which acctpts
9.4 percent of its applicants and has an average
freshman SAT of 1200.

Other Virginia schools appearing on the USA list
are the College of William and Mary in Williarrisburg
and the University of Virginia in Charlottesville.

Despite the fact that this year’s showing in the
rankings is the university‘s best yet, W&L
administrators are still hesitant to attatch any particular
importance to them.

“Overall, I'm somewhat suspicious,” said Dean of
Students Lewis John. “On one hand, I don’t
particularly like such rankings. But on the other hand,
it is nice that others appreciate the type of school we
are." - ~

W&L President John D. Wilson agreed.

“A lot of people pay attention to these polls and
forget that they‘re based on a subjective set of
opinions,” he said. “They have gotten better in recent

By Brian Root

Senior Copy Editor

’ I

USA s choostest
School % accepted SAT
U.S. Coast Guard Academy (CT) 9.4 1200
U.S. Naval Academy (MD) 11.4 1241
U.S. Air Force Academy (CO) 13.0 1250
U.S. Military Academy (NY) 14.2 1211
Harvard & Radcliffe (MA) 16.7 NA
Princeton University (NJ) 16.8 1225
Stanford University (CA) 17.7 NA
Yale University (CT) 18.8 NA
Cooper Union (NYC) 19.6 NA
Dartmouth College (NH) 20.1 1330
Amherst College (MA) 22.1 NA
Brown University (Rl) 23.1 NA
Swarthmore College (PA) 23.2 1340
Georgetown University (DC) 23.6 1263
Bowdoin College (ME) 23.9 NA
Rice University (TX) 24.1 1348
Duke University (NC) 24.9 NA
Middlebury College (VT) 25.0 NA
College of William 8- Mary (VA) 26.8 1250
l(I:Villlian:)s College (MA) 28.3 1335

o um ia College (NYC) 28.5 1270
Washington and Lee ' 28.9 1236
Cornell University (NY) 30.0 NA
Mass. Institute of Tech. 30.1 1355
Calif. Institute of Tech. 30.8 1403
Wake Forest University (NC) 31.0 1200
Pomona College (CA) 31.3 1320
New College (FL) 32.6 1260
University of Notre Dame (IN) 33.2 1210
Davidson College (NC) 33.8 1230
University of Virginia (VA) 33.9 1222
Wesleyan University (CT) 34.8 1292
Haverford College (PA) 35.2 1285
Claremont McKenna College (CA) 36.1 1260
Bates College (ME) 36.2 1240
These are 35 of the 52 colleges that accepted
fewer than half their applicants and whose fresh-
men average at least 1200 on the SAT. NA is
used where colleges opted not to release their
SAT averages, but published reports indicated
they are above 1200. '
SOURCE: USA TODAY, October 11, 1989

years in terms of their methodology, but they still have
their severe limitations.”

Wilson was “quite pleased,” though, with the
-university’s “Best Buy” ranking, especially in light of
last year's signiﬁcant tuition increase.

“We’ve tried hard to continue to keep tuition
down,” he said, “Other than that, you’ve got to take
these things with a grain of salt.”

IFC puts Contact’s
budget on hold

The remaining $18,000 will be pro-
vided by the EC.

The Spectator also made a bud-

 

Michael Deaver

“It’s not a very hon-
orable thing to admit
that I drank vodka in
the White House.”

— Michael Deaver

investigations of his use of political
influence to help his high—priced
lobbying practice.

A federal grand jury charged
Deaver with five counts of perjury
for claiming no memory of
conversations that could have
violated federal conflict-of-interest
lawswith top White House ‘ and
Cabinet ofﬁcials. Speculation arose
that Deaver’s defense would claim
that his memory may have been
hazy from drinking before and after
the conversations.

In his speech Deaver said that,
despite a popular misconception, his

Cl Please see DEAVER page 3

The Interfraternity Council Tues-
day night refused to grant Contact’s
budget request of $13,0()0, pending
a presentation to the full IFC next
week by Contact representatives.

The budget request, which was
presented to the IFC Judicial Board
last week, calls for each fraternity
to pay a per—member fee of $12.
Last year, each fraternity paid $10
per member, amounting to approxi-
mately $9,000, according to IFC
President Kevin Nash.

The fraternity representatives,
however, asked the Judicial Board
to postpone consideration of the
budget request until the next meet-
mg.
“We (the IFC) have always
been one of the primary sponsors of
Contact,” said IFC Vice President
Hunt Neidringhaus. “I think this is
a small price to pay to get quality
speakers at the school.”

Contact Co—Chairman Bob
Tompkins said both he and the oth-
er chairman, Thomas Sheehan, will
attend next weck’s IFC meeting to
make a presentation.

“The IFC seems to be fairly
interested in giving us the money
we’re asking for," said Tompkins.
“Up until last year, the IFC has
always given us about half of our
budget.”

This year, said Tompkins, Con-
tact’s budget will be about $31,000.

Board to consider Long Flange Plan

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee's Board of Trustees be-
gan the ﬁrst of three meetings of the school year
today, focusing their efforts on the university’s

“Long Range Plan.”

“All the board meetings are important,”
said Virginia Supreme Court Justice A. Christian
“This one is
particularly important because the board as a

Compton, a trustee since 1978.

whole will consider” the plan.

Compiled by the Long Range Plan Steering
Committee and based on information collected
by faculty, student and staff study groups, the
Long Range Plan is a comprehensive report on
the state of the university including more than

next [CIT yC8.I'S.

out,"

“[One is] to keep

a number of buildings.

70 recommendations for improvement over the

Its ten chapters rzmge in topic from the quali-
ty of undergraduate faculty, students and aca-
demic programs, the Law School and administra-
tion, and the physical plant.

“There are a couple main themes that stand
said W&L President John D. Wilson.
the academic community
small and intimate and to improve the quality of
life outside the classroom.”

Among the plan's recommendations are an
increased emphasis on diversity in admissions, a
lower faculty—student ratio and the renovation of
The plan also calls for
the construction of “a comprehensive student
center," including a fast food restaurant, a sit——
down restaurant, an expanded bookstore, postal

of the

plan.

spring.

board. ’ ’

and recreational facilities and student organiza-
tion ofﬁces.

According to Farris P. Hotchkiss, secretary
university
university relations, board members arrived last
night to allow an additional day to review the

and vice president for

Willard Dumas, president of the Executive
Committee,
with the board members.

“This is my ﬁrst board meeting as president
of the student body," said Dumas, who met
with the board as EC vice president-elect last

said he looks forward to working

“My main purpose," said Dumas, “is to be
the link between the student body and the

get request to the IFC for $1,200 of
the magazine’s expected budget of
about $2,600.

The ﬁrst issue, which came out
today, is one of six planned for the
fall term, said Co-Editor Ray Weld-
er. According to Welder, the first
issue was produced without school
funds. Each issue is expected to
cost about $200 to produce.

“We‘ve gone to parents, grand-
parents, and friends for the money
for this issue,” Welder said.

The IFC will vote on the budget
request next week, and several ofﬁ-
cers, including Secratary Gordon
Dekuyper spoke in favor of provid-
ing funds to the magazine.

“I think most of the publications
around here are either unbiased or
biased against the fraternity
system," said Dekuyper. “It would
be nice to have a magazine that
writes more about our side of the
issues.”

In other business, the full IFC
voted unanimously to allocate
$1,350 for the Battle of the Bands
as part of Alcohol Awareness Week.

“The event’s supposed to show
you can have a good time without
getting trashed,” Nash said.

Nash reminded the fraternities of
the IFC regulation prohibiting any
mandatory pledge activities before
the beginning of formal pledgeship
in January.

Correction

. A story in past week’s edi—i
tion of The Ring-tum Phi con-‘
tairied an error. ‘
The Executive Comrriittee’s I
president, Willard Dumas, told a i
Rmg—tum Phi reporter he would L
support the closing of the charge 3
accounts of the Student Activi- 7
ties Board. The committee dis— '
cussed that possiblilty last week 1
but did not make that decision i
ofﬁcial until its meeting Monday I
night. V
The Ring-tum Phi regrets the I
error. i

 

 
 

OPINION
Only $23,000?  

So great. So Washington and Lee has a healthy
endowment. So a lot of students come from wealthy
families. So “charge it home” is a way of life. These
facts are not new.

W&L’s endowment, in sum with the large amount of
money that alumni give to the school each year, affords
us a lot more than a beautiful, well-kept campus and new
computers: in conjunction with all the wealth in our
families’ backgrounds it affords us all an attitude as well.

Usually that attitude manifests itself only in a
lighthearted “Well, we deserve certain things because the
school has the money to give them to us.” Usually we
are joking. We can do that because the school and its
students are all acclimated to being around a fair amount
of wealth, either from the manner in which we were
raised — it’s no secret that the BMWs and Saabs that are
lined up in campus parking lots were not bought from

money we students earned during summer jobs — or from A

having been at W&L in and around the school’s wealth
the last few years of our lives.

Look at all the new construction. In Gaines Hall there
are walk-in closets, a weight room and kitchens. There are
personal computers all over campus for student use. The
infirmary is free.

We have all become so used to it, these relative
luxuries, and it’s beginning to blur our judgement.

The school throws a weekend-long bash for the entire
student body every year. Think about that. The school —
through the student activities funds allocated to the SAB -
- pays for it, helped by our $40 ticket cost, which is
minimal when you consider all it buys: the decorations,
two bands, a full orchestra and assorted side shows, such
as elephants, fire-eaters and whatnot. Students from other
schools think it’s insane that the school would spend so
much money on a party, but it is in keeping with the
styles and traditions of W&L.

But is being so cavalier about a $23,000 budget loss a
part of tradition? No. Does it contain a single grain of
style? No. But it is happening.

Suddenly, the EC is the bad guy because it is
attempting not to allow a similar budget overrun this year.
Suddenly, students are saying that $23,000 isn’t that much
money, why is everyone complaining? “The EC members
had fun at Fancy Dress last year. I don’t know why
they’re so uptight about the loss.” That is what is being
said in the Co-op and in the classrooms before class
begins.

How can we take that attitude? $23,000 is more than
twice the tuition that won us national acclaim. $23,000 is
more than the average W&L graduate will make in his
first year out of college. $23,000 is far above the poverty
level that we learn about in economics. Anyone raising a
family in a regular job, not even someone under the
poverty level, would be disgusted to hear college students,
driving around in their nice cars in their nice clothes, say,
“It’s not that much money. So what?”

Didn’t we learn something about the real world beyond
these red brick walls and white columns? Haven’t we at
least learned the value of money, as a virtue of out
having been so fortunate thus far?

When President John Wilson made a $16,000 donation
to the student activities fund last month, a lot of the
students thought that was an unsurprising step of action.
“We deserve it anyway,” seemed to be the general
opinion. Well, maybe we don’t. The issue is not why FD
was over budget. The issue is not how to make FD less
expensive. The issue here is serious. $23,000 is a
monumental amount of money - far too much to be
brushed off as a sum we deserve, only for having had the
good fortune to be born with more than most around us.

Ours and Yours

The Ring-tum Phi, as the student voice of Washington
and Lee University, feels an obligation to publish each
and every student-opinion piece it receives, and we
encourage students and other members of the W&L
community to submit letters or “My Views.” However,
we reserve the right to edit any and all submissions for
reasons of taste, libel, clarity or length. .

The Phi is indeed our newspaper, but it is no more ours
than it is yours. The quality and diversity of its opinion
page is dependent on your submissions.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 19, 19.89

Restoring R.E

MY VIEW
By Taylor Sanders

At a memorial service marking the 119th-

anniversary of the death of Gen. Robert E. Lee,
Washington and Lee history Pro_f. Taylor Sanders
spoke on Lee and his legacy. The words that

follow are adapted from that address.

Recently a Southern visitor who had spent
soirie time at Washington and Lee commented
that she found our campus surprisingly cold and
aloof. She said it was indistinguishable from
various larger campuses with which she was
farriiliar. I agreed, noting that I found the same
spirit here when I visited the school in the early
1960s.

As the university _has grown larger and more
complex, it has become more difficult to main-
tain the spirit of community that marked the
campus in Robert E. Lee’s day. With each new
wave of self-indulgence, each needless display of
wealth and status, self-centeredriess and hedo-
nisrn, the Lee legacy of spirituality, courtesy,
self-control and self-sacrifice, the life of what
Lee called “comfortable subsistence” wanes.
Understandably, these values are replaced by
cries for more freedom and self-govemment, but
often without the responsibility and accountabili-
ty that Lee also demanded of his students.

As a Southerner, I fear we are on the verge
of losing these positive southern traditions, espe-
cially traditions embodied in men like Lee. But
as a historian who has recently read the Gallup
poll asserting that some 40 percent of American
College seniors could not place the Civil War in
its proper quarter century, I am not surprised
that Americans have a difficult time identifying
positive Southern core values, much less main-
taining them.

Elements of those core values, which three
decades ago differentiated North from South,
included the ‘centrality of race and religion, in-
tense family and kinship feelings, the importance
of a commonly experienced history — with
shared frustrations, defeat, poverty and deep
devotion to a particular community (steeple top
patriotism). Intermixed with these were positive
rural values such as hospitality and the impor-
tance of oral traditions, stressing things like
courtesy, honor and forbearance.

These traditions, however, were not universal

flirt lﬁiitg-tum lﬂlri

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Editors .................................................... ..Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison
Associate Editors ................................... ...Jarnes Lake, Genierme Mongno
Assignment Editor...  ............ ..Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor ...................................................... ..Tina Vandersteel

Entertainment Editor .............................................. ..Pamela Kelley

     
   

Sports Editor ........................................................ ..Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor ........................................................ ..Brian Root
Editorial Cartoonist ............................................................ ...Jeff Woodland
Business Manager .................................................................. ..Arme Dysart
Advertising Manager .............................................................. ..Jason Kelley
Circulation Manager .................................... ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,

. but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in The
Room 208 of the University
that week’s edition.

Ring-tum Phi office,
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in
The Ring-tum Phi observes current court

‘ definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

EC addresses
secrecy issue 

We are all aware of the privileges that
come with our Honor System at Washington
and Lee. However, these privileges entail
responsibilities. Every student at W&L during
his freshman year was asked to read the White
Book and sign a card stating he had done so.
Our philosophy for the Honor System and the
procedures for a Closed and a Student Body
Hearing are contained in the White Book.

If a question about another student’s honor
exist in your mind, you, whether student, staff
member, faculty member, or administrator are
faced with three options. You may confront the
suspected student privately or, if you do not
feel comfortable confronting the student, you
must turn the matter over to the Executive
Committee. However, if you do not wish to
turn in the possible honor violation to the EC,
the matter must be dropped and never men-
tioned again.

The EC is bound to protect any students
from harassment and defamation of character.
As stated in Section 0 of the White Book:

Any and all information about a possible
Honor System violation or an Executive Com-
mittee Hearing is highly confidential. The Exec-
utive Committee may take disciplinary steps
against any student who breaks this confidenti-
ality [Emphasis mine]. For example, the
accused, any student interviewed in an investi-
gation, or any witness in an Executive Commit-
tee Hearing may be placed on social or con-
duct probation» or suspended from the Universi-
ty. An advocate may be permanently suspended
from the right to advocate Executive Committee
matters. An Executive Committee member may
be suspended from oﬂice or may be placed on
probation for one or more hearings.

The EC will not hesitate to enforce Section
0 of the White Book.

Willard Dumas, '91
EC President

Top Volunteer
fights assault
on Liberty Hall

I find it necessary to respond to the article
written by Gary McCullough and Aelica Irigen-
thron that appeared in last week's Ring-tum
Phi. Although they claimed to be writing in
condemnation of the Executive Committee's
budget decisions, Mr. McCullough and Miss
Ingenthron decided to divert from their original
argument and larnbast the Liberty Hall Volun-
teers.

To quote Mr. McCullough and Miss Ingen-
tliron, “And what could be more offensive
than a group of southern college students
marching around in Confederate unifomis."
They even diverted further, insinuating that the
Liberty Hall Volunteers had a racist point of
view.

As President of the Liberty Hall Volunteers,
I can state that nothing could be further from
the truth or more ignorant than the completely

 
  
 

( u

 

i.f"f‘\"‘\

  
  

 
  
 

’.'ilEI."—'iﬂliIﬂl]

 
 

   

AND 5oM£,P¢;;°!P’¢—

wonbzli/flow DEEP 

in the South of Lee’s day. The general was an
Evangelical Christian and a Victorian gentleman.
This position distinguished him from some other
southerners, especially those known as the
“bowie-lcnife-and-pistol gentry.” By status 01656
people were gentlemen, ‘but their behavior was
marked by violence, conspicuous consumption,
an inﬂated and jealous claim for individual
rights (their own), a touchy sense of honor —
and a rigid code to go with it.

In fact Lee’s entire life was a rebuke to
those dandified good-old-boys, with their panama
hats, brocaded vests and fancy boots. Lee's own
system was based on Paul’s letter to Colossians,
which stressed values such as mercy, rriildness,
kindness, humility and obedience.

Many of Lee’s contemporaries held codes of
honor and ethics based on rigid rules that made

   

 
  
  
   

’. A /////


‘S3?

: ‘    WTml<oru 

    
  

\\  : ~71

 

\.

‘I u.  nnmge

‘ (L. --
/_ ‘ I.

’ V

. Lee s College .

 I :5

' ""’ »
  _ / ,lp\ ‘ “ca; (90515! -‘Wm’ 
. 9'43   Gd‘ mic in  R. 

  
     
  

V

/pee Sena: 3542 if '

I

matters of behavior clear and binding on alll

persons of equal status in similar situations. For
social inferiors, whom they treated with arrogant
contempt, completely different standards applied.
Lee’s own code was more gentle and intuitive.
He would ask us to place relationships over
rules, values above abstractions, and community
over codes. For Lee the response of other people

0

I

. - I
and the impact of our actions on them was a

key to how we should judge the morality of an
act. This is central to Lee's definition of a true
man of honor, who, Lee said, “feels humbled
himself when he cannot help humbling another.”
Lee did all this in the context of a life gov-
emed by duty, self—control, self-denial, and
Christian charity. His code was also intensely
southern, with its stress on courtesy, community
0 Please see SANDERS page 3

r

T .

8

D

>

LETTERS

unfounded attacks of Mr. McCullough and
Miss Ingentliron. Not only am I offended and
frustrated by these attacks, I am saddened that
certain people choose to take ‘such a close-
minded  of view. Also,‘I find it odd that
anyone who is so offended by anything associ-
ated with the Confederacy should wish to at-
tend General Lee’s university.

I suggest that if Mr. McCullough, Miss
Irigenthron or anyone else would like an edu-
cated and accurate description of the Liberty
Hall Volunteers and our activities then they
should read the article that also appeared in
last week's Phi concerning the group and its
involvement in the Lee Memorial Service.

J. Kent Gregory, '92
President, Liberty Hall Volunteers

Writer corrects
error in letter

Last week I wrote a letter in response to
Richard Spence’s “My View” about his SAB
experience. In my error, I attributed the words
“creative bookkeeping" to Alexander I-Iitz
when, in fact, Spence wrote that Charles Con-
klin made that remark. My apologies.

Jeff Woodland, '91

Story unclear,
says reader

Last week I read on the front page sorne-
thing that I was confident was inaccurate. In
Brooke Jarabek's article “SAB rules revised;
accounts closed” the printed text read, “The
number of organizations to which the EC gives
funds has increased from 5 or 6 two years ago
to about 25 this year, said Dumas.”

This information had great relevance to the
sentence that followed: “The student activities
fee that each student pays yearly to provide
funds for these student groups has increased by
only $5 in that time.”

From the comprehensive budget allocations
statements given to me by EC Vice President
Jon Sheinberg, I found that 25 organizations
were allocated funds this year, 7 of which
were sports clubs. Two years ago, there were
23 organizations allocated funds, of which 6
were sports organizations.

In reality, only 2 more organizations re-
ceive funding from the EC currently than did
in the '87-'88 school year, not 19 or 20 as the
previous article would lead one to believe.
This is not to say that these are the same orga-
nizations that petitioned the EC for funding in
the '87-'88 school year plus two new ones.
Nor is it to say how much money these orga-
nizations need to operate.

The point of bringing this to light is to set
the record straight and to enter a plea to all
persons submitting material for campus publi-
cation. Please, whether it is for the news page
or for the editorial page, check your facts and
get proof before you put it in print. It is dan-
gerous to do otherwise, especially here where
the Honor System is applied broadly and sub-
jectively.

' Sincerely,

Cary c. Baber, '91 ’

Homecoming

(If

Letters defend

‘road Queens’

In response to Miss Nock’s enlightening
letter to The Ring-tum Phi, last week, I would
like to take this opportunity to thank Miss
Nock for her brilliant and timely analysis of
the 1988 controversy concerning that year's
Fancy Dress Ball.

Perhaps after another two years of intense
scrutiny Miss Nock will be blessed with the
startling realization that the W&L tradition of
selecting a Homecoming Queen each year was
established well before the Board of Trustees’
1984 decision to have W&L be a coeducational
institution. At this point, Miss Nock might also
realize that Washington and Lee women, how-
ever beautiful and talented they may be, do not
have a monopoly on those characteristics that
have traditionally defined “Homecoming
Queen.”

Sincerely,
Greg Golden, '91

I am writing in response to Miss Nock’s
letter which appeared in the last publication of
The Ring-tum Phi. I agree that a W&L woman
winning Homecoming Queen should not create
a fuss. I do however object when we are told
that only a coed can win that honor.

Girls frorri “Hollins/Sweetbriar, etc.” are
NOT foreigners on our campus. They are, and
always have been, an integral part of life at
W&L. If a fraternity wants to sponsor a girl
from another school for Homecoming Queen,
she should be offered every consideration given
to a coed. She too is part of a special relation-
ship existing between the students of W&L,
Hollins, MBC, Sweetbriar, and R—MWC. It is a
traditional relationship that makes our college
experience unique.

If you need proof that such a relationship
exists, or that it affects everyone here, just
look around. Obviously girls from down the
road come to our parties, and we (yes, even
coeds) go to theirs, but we also have access to
their libraries, and they check out books here.
Just as in Lexington, we are answerable to the
EC, SCC, or CRC for our conduct on their
campuses, and until quite recently (class of
’89) our freshman viewbooks included fresh-
men at their schools too. Where else have you
encountered colleges with such ties?

It is sad to see traditions die, especially in
a place where they are as proudly revered as
they are here. Unfortunately, as the ratio of
women to men nears 50-50, and as long as a
segment of our student body feels a necessity
to cling to a xenophobic contempt for girls
from other schools, this tradition also seems
doomed to eclipse like the necktie, and the
speaking tradition.

Girls from down the road are as much a
part of Washington and Lee as any student
here. They represent tradition. Considering the
importance we at W&L place on traditions,
perhaps the “road cheese” has more of a
place on this campus than some of our own
students.

John C. Ford II, '92

an

“ V 9"

 

  

 

 

DEAVER

from page 1

lawyer did not use alcoholism as a
legal defense against the perjury
charges.

“The only place that alcoholism
played in my defense was in the
newspapers,” Deaver said.

Deaver claimed drinking did not
impair his judgement while he was
deputy chief of staff but admitted it
may have once he left the White
House.

It wasn’t until his 16-year-old
daughter, crying, told him he was
an alcoholic that he realized his
problem, Deaver said.

EC

from page 1

“Well, all those hundreds of
thousands of times I’d promised
myself that I’d never do this came
back and hit me in the face,”
Deaver said in a near whisper,
lightly pounding the podium for
emphasis, “because here was the
joy of my life-span in front of me
with tears running down her face
saying, ‘You're an alcoholic.”’

Within a day he began a
rehabilitation program that lasted 28
days and he has not had a drink
since.

In ten days, Deaver said, he will
celebrate his third year of sobriety.

“We could take $100 from the
business office, and Katie [Duwel]
and I will be at the pavilion or gym
every day if money's needed.

“To avoid the need for cash,
we'll buy more than necessary and
return what we don’t use,” Fowler
said.

Duwel agreed the no-charges
policy can work.

“We’ll stretch the ‘crush period’

to three weeks and encourage peo-
ple to plan ahead. If we run out of
money, people will realize that they
have been poor planners,” she said.

FD Chairman Alex Hitz agreed
this was a good idea, but he said
“someone will need to be there (at
the gym or pavilion) whenever
stores are open.”

“We can plan all we want to,
but things are going to go wrong,”
Hitz told the EC.

EC Vice President Jon Sheinberg
suggested purchase orders as a sub-
stitute for charging. A student
would obtain a purchase order from
the business office and present it to
the store where the merchandise is
bought

This way, said Sheinberg, the
business office would know instant-
ly how much was being spent, in-
stead of months later when the bills
arrived.

‘ ‘I wouldn’t mind charge ac-
counts staying open if people
learned how to use purchase

orders,” Sheinberg said.
“I think this purchase order
thing, although I don't know what it

means, sounds feasible," said . SAB .
Director, . ’ Michael ‘

Entertainment
Applebaum.

Several other suggestions regard-
ing how the SAB could continue
charging and keep up-to-date records
were made. Hitz suggested there be
FD accounts at stores like Wal-Mart
and K-Mart. SAB members would
write a description of what they
bought and turn in forms to Duwel
or Fowler. These bills could be paid
each week, said Hitz.

SAB Chairman Charles Conklin
suggested a “compromise” be
found.

“Instead of making two trips
[one to get a price and then another
with a check made out by Duwel],
why don’t we just charge and pay
bills on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
Only certain members of the SAB
Board could have the authority to
charge things,” said Conklin.

Duwel said the idea of receipts
and ﬁlling out forms would not
work.

“Last year [FD Chairwoman]
Liz Smith would throw receipts at

[Treasurer] Mike Carroll and he of-C

ten didn't know which bills were
paid and which weren't," said
Duwel.“We want to put all of our
expenses on paper right away.”

Fialcowitz disagreed with Hitz
and Conklin.

“This (elimination of charges)
will be an inconvenience and it will
cause further planning. But what it
comes down to is that you’re going
to have to check with the treasurer
before you buy stuff,” said
Fialcowitz.

Third-year law Rep. David An-
thony brought the compromise dis-
cussion to an end.

“I think we’re spending a lot of
time trying to figure out a perfect
way to handle this, and it’s not go-
ing to happen,” said Anthony. “We
have 65 percent of our student orga-
nizations overspending. That’s ob-
scene. That's obscene. What if a
guy goes out and charges ﬁve
grand? We’re screwed. I’m not will-
ing to fund any transgressions.”

Fialcowitz made a motion outlin-
ing the no-charging policy.

The proposal, which passed 8-4,
consists of eliminating all charging
privileges for the SAB and making
the business office the sole area of
access for funds for the SAB.

The motion also allowed the EC
to establish penalties for violating
the no-charging rule and to send a
statement outlining the ﬁnal motion
to the SAB.

Finally, the,motion_,estabVlished a
subcominittee to explore possibilities
of " extending ' this policy to ,other
organizations.

EC President Willard Dumas
named himself, Junior Rep. Tom
Hatcher, Anthony and Fialcowitz to
the subcommittee that will examine
whether the policy should be ex-
tened. A motion to make the
no-charging policy campus-wide
failed ll-1 Monday night, with only
Anthony supporting it.

The SAB presented the minutes
from their last meeting. Sheinberg
requested a more detailed account
so that “at the end of each event
we can sit down and see how close
you are to your budget."

The SAB reported everything is
running well so far this year.

“We are ahead. We have more
money to spend than we thought we
would,” said Duwel.

According to Applebaum, the
SAB lost approximately $1,300 on
the magician act last weekend.

“We anticipated a lot more peo-
ple and underestimated the expense
costs,” said Applebaum.

The Rlng-tum Phl, October 19, 1989

Abortion: The Final Solution?

MY VIEW

By J. Cameron
Humphries

“God is dead.” — Nietzsche

. In the three months that have
passed since the Supreme Court
partially overturned Roe v. Wade,
the initial dust clouds have settled,
battle lines drawn and redrawn, and
sides entrenched in preparation fér
what most consider the inevitable’
overturn of the 1973 decision
sometime in November.
seems improbable — if not
impossible — for either side to
achieve an amendment to the
Constitution in its favor, ‘and since
the courts cannot continue to
establish a precedent only to have
another ideology overturn it, then it
is necessary to seek some other
solution to this question.

Ever since Newton, we have
turned to the discoveries of science
as the one source of that is
unfaltering, absolute, and above all
unquestionable. Whereas myth,
philosophy, and God were all once
the bedrock of man's knowledge,

the modern man now accepts
science. '
« No questions of ‘ ‘rights’ ’ or

“truths” gave us these answers, but
instead science and the scientific
method of thought. Thus, I now
propose that we look to science to
solve the question of abortion. Then
when science states its case, we, the
citizens of the twentieth century will
know the “truth." There will be no
need for debate, much as a
mathematician would not argue his
multiplication tables.

To begin, we must separate myth
from science.

First, man is animal. It is a
crude, somewhat depressing thought,
nevertheless an essential one. I do
not mean he has no inherent rights,
or that he is not quite advanced and
thus removed from the animal
kingdom. I mean most precisely that
since he evolved from them, he,
excuse me, I mean we, are part of
them as well.

Secondly, man cannot be
considered to have either soul or

SANDERS

from page 2 “E” 

While it‘

conscience, since science has never
found the biological organ or any
matter which comprise either the
soul or the conscience, man must be
considered not to have one. Sure,
philosophers and psychologists have
often mentioned and referred to the
soul and to the conscience; but, we
in the scientific age want facts,
hard, cold, and concrete ones. Faith
and the rest of that garbage that
chained and bound man for
centuries is no longer acceptable.

Then on these two rules I hang
all the laws and the profits of our
new society. Now I know we’re not
here to establish a new society but
to answer one question within our
own. So trust me, I’ll not talk of a
new utopia, just abortion. In review
thus far we have agreed that instead
of using the criteria of own society,
which has answered little, we would
use one standard of absolute truth —
- science.

legitimate doctor in America would
consider it. Instead, the removal of
a perfectly good heart from a
perfectly healthy body is limited to
the back alleys of America in a
practice that is considered at best
occult, at worst satanic.

By declaring that the entire fetus
has no inherent value, we do ignore
that the fetus has a heart and a
mind, as well as an appendix, but
the solution remains clean and
simple. That’s all we’re after, right?

Now the answer to abortion is
easy. Should a woman have an
abortion? Of course she should!
We should encourage it. Why
should any woman have to endure
childbirth. Well, it’s sort of like
removing a tumor or an appendix.
Sort of.

Whereas cancer or internal
hemorrhage takes life, pregnancy
creates it, but there I go again
trying to dirty things up with

Science should not concern itself with
“When does life begin?” It is a philosophy
question. Instead of considering when life
begins for the fetus, we should redirect our
attention on how it should end.

~....r y-..u .-.--.-* -..

I must admit that this idea of
using science to solve the question
of abortion is not entirely original.
As of now, science is trying to

determine where life begins. I
might also add they have been
somewhat unsuccessful. Science

should not concern itself with
“When does life begin?” It is a
philosophy question, and philosophy
has no business meddling in what
science can answer better.

Instead of considering when life
begins for the fetus, we should
redirect our attention on how it
should end.

Science will officially reclassify
the fetus as nothing more than an
organ, then go one step further and
declare it of no inherent value. All
of this is essential. No one today
questions a woman's right to have
her appendix removed. It’s her
body, she may do with it as she
pleases. However, if she were to
request that her heart be removed,
that would be a different story. No

technicalities that only cloud the
issue. I am quite confident that our
language and such can be
redesigned to tidy that little
oversight.

I promised you there would be

law and profits under science, and I
do not mean to deceive you. First,

no longer does the question of
abortion plague us. Yet after hearing
all that science can do for _us, it
seems like a small dividend now. I
can feel the greed in your hearts
now saying, “I want more.” I will
give it to you.

Second, this new fetus will
answer all of our, for lack of a
better expression, prayers. This little
bundle of joy, no pun intended, is
not just an organ, but a super organ.
Abortion clinics across America
have been fascinated, if not
frustrated, by its deceptive tactics
for rs. Science has filmed this
org‘ icking and ﬁghting against
its at tation. I have not researched
this point, but I do not know of any

other organ in the human anatomy
which will do this. Then, once
removed, this super organ simply
will not die on its own. Science
pours salt on top of it (this trick
does wonders with slugs), punctures
it, but usually the fetus requires
smashing the skull to kill it. Make
no mistake, this is one tough organ.

The real fun lies in what Mr.
Scientist is going to do with the
super organ. Science believes it will
cure Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s,
diabetes, cancer and many diseases
that are presently unknown to him.
Here lies the real payoff, and its
effects would be nothing less than
-profound.

Sex, which has for so long been
the taboo subject in American life,
would now become its most
penetrating activity. And well it
should. The more sex, the more
fetuses, the more scientific, and the
closer man will become to his
ultimate achievement, immortality.

Sure, quite soon there will
simply be no need for children
because we will conquer death and
live forever. Children would simply
impede our individual freedom, our
careers, and the progress of our own
lives. We’ve all heard the
expression that we “are living at
the expense of our youth.” That’s
just some more philosophical talk.
We are living at the expense of the
old. More specifically, of our own
old, and by that I mean our own
old age. There is nothing, or
nobody who can take life away
from us but ourselves.

This is the ultimate goal of my
modem proposal.

Yet, instead of sounding like a
grand solution, it sounds like the
Final Solution. Instead of allowing
for free choice and the promotion of
freedom, our society is perpetrating
the biggest lie in the history of
mankind. In the United States alone,
legal abortions have claimed more
lives than Adolf Hitler, Joseph

Stalin, the rest of World War It, all
of World War I, and the war before
that one, and so on, and so on, etc.
We condemn Hitler, but what will
we do with ourselves? Millions of
souls are crying for justice, if we
don’t answer them, who will?

and relationships. It was intuitive, but it was
also extremely concrete.

In dealing with students Lee took a similar
tact. He believed that, so long as a student was
husbanding his parents’ resources, going to class
(and preferably to church), was acting soberly
and decently, passing his work, and not embar-
rassing the community, he was welcome to stay.

But, if he wasted his parents’ money (by not
going to class, or by spending too much, or by
drinking at local saloons), or if his examples of
“idleness and irregular attendance” at class
rubbed off on fellow students, Lee would invite
the student for an interview. If, after warnings
and letters to parents, a student persisted in such
behavior, Lee would send him home.

The same was true of students who brought
shame on the college — by harassing blacks, by
making students from the North feel uncomfort-
able, or by riotous behavior that disturbed oth-
ers. For Lee, being ,a gentleman meant far more
than simply not lying, not cheating and not
stealing. Lee tolerated no student for long who
caused another person pain or embarrassment, or
led others astray, or placed them in danger.

Lee believed that his boys should learn self-
control. He gave the students a wider measure of

self-govemment than previous generations had
enjoyed at the college. He abolished the long,
printed list of rules that had governed college
life for decades, realizing that codes of behavior
caused more harm than good and did not foster
patterns of self-control.

Lee replaced them with the rule that all stu-
dents must act as gentlemen — or leave. Lee
believed the old system, which required profes-
sors to spy on students, degraded both boys and
faculty members and destroyed relations between
them. Lee hoped that the students’ regard for
their own reputation plus their own concept of
duty would lead them to act correctly, respect
authority, and diligently pursue their work.

This done, one teacher said, Lee “exercised
a constant vigilance over the students." And
they probably required such oversight.

We tend to idealize Lee’s student body,
made up as it was by hardened veterans and
bashful boys who had been too young to serve.
Yet Lee’s faculty, though they respected the
boys, did not idealize them. .

Said one faculty member,“Irnrnediately after
the war, the young men of the South were wild
and unrestrained and acts of disorder were fre-
quent.” Some of Lee’s students, being “incur-

ably vicious,” as a faculty member noted, were
sent home with dispatch. Thankfully these num-
bered a tiny minority. But, of the rest, Lee
tamed most all of them. According to one teach-
er, Lee offered every student his fervent care,
nurture and protection, “like that of a father or
mother." When a problem arose, Lee could
combine firmness with tenderness. He offered
patience and leniency (even humor) for some;
stem reproofs for others. He considered each
boy as an individual. He was not a “stickler for
formal regulations.” Though usually lenient
when it came to “youthful indiscrction”(at times
he seems to have gotten a kick out of them),
Lee refused to tolerate “falsehood" or “mean-
ness.”

On the whole, however, Lee was more inter-
ested in elevating the character of an individual
student than in simply repressing vice. And his
system worked. A professor noted that by the
last years of Lee’s tenure “hardly a single case
of serious discipline occurred." Students had
learned self-govemment while tasting a portion
of self-government. .

NEXT WEEK: How we can reclaim the posi-';
tive traditions of Robert E. Lee. 1

By Merrill Watson

TALKBACK

Lynette Goodman, ‘91, Los
Angeles, Ca. — “There’s an un-
recognized problem, and it's up
to individuals to deal with it.
Awareness and information can
be provided,’ but it doesn’t solve
the problem.”

 

 

Sumner Timberlake, ‘91, Bir-
mingham, Al. - “Of course
there's a problem here. There’s
a problem in America."

 

1941944114,;
I§§s ‘Pia-;¢,

Thomas G0ttS98eﬂ» ‘91, New David Fenstermacher, ‘91, Rob Christensen, ‘91, Fairfax, Hunt Neidringhaus, IFC Vice-
Orleans, La. - “Anything in Augusta, Ga. — “I'don’t think Va. — “None except when peo— President, ‘90, St. Louis, Mis-
moderation." - there _ my problem. We ought ple get all uptight.” souri — “It’s running rampant.

to enjoy ourselves while we can We need lots of mandatory

 Q },,;1.4_ 3:.

  

bgbfprg we ‘hit the real world.” » 6 _ 

What kind of problem do you think alcoholism 
is at W&L and what should be done?

Photos by Amanda Hughen 

 

\.

q /A .;a2f'uv}¢
}/’ vim h(:,:., 8"

 

  

-- g   inspiring
* -ipoéelies--by*:&t>sﬂWho'~lériow.7 ’  ii

 

‘1.,,;..,,,;.,-,g.:~.-;o.a.o.~:Ha=.ioA.n:aLA.1.a.tI IANIVHWH v-.-v -

-....Ae.--nu...-...

. 2.4..-«J-,&.;v 6' .—;:t_.<.. .... -.-..--»-.-.~.

......._...»;.»....c..  -

(.1t~:..mu¢e.T.ae«zz:me.«'-)..;m;,ag:,.«..h 2-: .2- than.-4-.-us. wktltxl-U-A cub-|1':u&¢ mi «ml...-,....a-...»..r. :»n . A/A mus--...,. ... .4. .i.. .4. .._- ,. .. m. .1“. l\' .. Ln .. ... . J. .,.t. .- m... x.....

.._......,.....v:...'.. .x.. .. 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 19, 1989

Applications

The Executive Committee is
accepting applications for mem-
bership on a constitutional revi-
sions committee. The group will
draft possible amendments to the
student body constitution. Appli-
cations are due Monday, Oct. 23
at 3 p.m. in the E.C. office in
the University Center.

Volunteers

Complimentary tickets for
Mill Mountain Theater’s 1989-90
Season are available to student
volunteers willing to distribute
posters and ﬂyers. The distribu-
tion area includes the Roanoke
Valley and surrounding com-
munities and is divided into
small territories. Volunteers must
provide their own transportation.
If interested, please call Gena
Kepley at (703) 342-5730 for
more information.

Book signing

The Washington and Lee
University Bookstore is sponsor-
ing a book signing party for
Prof. Lamar J.R. Cecil on
Friday, Oct. 27, in the Universi-
ty Library. At the party, Cecil
will be autographing copies of
Wilhem 11: Prince and Emperor,

1859-1900, which was recently
published by University of North
Carolina Press. Cecil, who is a
professor of history, has been
teaching at W&L since 1982.
The party for Cecil will be held
from 4:30-5:30 p.m. in the
Boatwright room of the library.
All are welcome.

Beat Boesky!

The Financial Management
Association is sponsoring the
2nd Annual AT&T Investment
Challenge. Game packets are
available at the bookstore. For
any information call Richard
Tomkins at 463-1129.

Outing club

The biking section of the
Outing Club will be making a
m.ountain-biking trip to the Elk
River Touring Center in Slaty
Fork, W.Va. on Oct. 21 and 22.
All skill levels are welcome.
Bike rentals are available, and
transportation is provided. Con-
tact John Buchanan at 463-7369
for details.

The paddling section of the
Outing Club will be making two
kayaking trips, one on Saturday,
Oct. 21, and the other on Sun-
day, Oct. 22. Pool experience
(roll practice) is required Call

GENERAL NOTES

Mark Lubkowitz at 463-7590 for
details.

The paddling section of the
Outing Club will also offer basic
canoeing instruction on Monday,
Oct. 23 starting at 1:45 p.m.
Sign up in advance at Baker
109, or’ call Mark Lubkowitz.
Limited space is available. Meet
at Baker 109.

We will continue our weekly
casting sessions with Prof. John
McDaniel at the foot of Liberty
Hall Ruins on Thursdays. Cast-
ing begins at 4:30 p.m., and you
can come any time until 63'p.m.
Equipment is being provided by
the Outing Club, or if you have
your own rod and reel, feel free
to bring them along. No previ-
ous experience is required, and
you need not come each week.
So get on the line with an ap-
preciation of casting and the joy
of fishing.

The environmental action
section of the Outing Club will
meet on Monday, Oct. 30 at
5:30 p.m. in room 109 of the
Student Center. Get involved
with recycling, litter control, and
the campaign to save House
Mountain.

Calyx

There will a be Calyx meet-
ing tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room
206 of the University Center for
all those who attended the last

meeting and anyone else interest-
ed. Job descriptions and assign-
ments will be addressed.

Auditions

The Washington and Lee
University Drama Division will
hold auditions for Aladdin, a
Christmas Pantomime, on Oct;
30 and 31 at 7 p.m. The pro-
duction will be presented Dec.
1-3 and Dec. 6-8, and will be
part of the Christmas in Lexing-
ton Weekend. Parts are available
for both men and women. Music
for the show will be pop and
musical comedy songs, chosen to
suit talent. Scripts can be
checked out from the Theater

Box Office. In addition to read-
ing from the script, auditioners
will be asked to display any oth-
er talents: singing, dancing, tum-
bling, juggling, etc. For further
information call the Theater Box
Office at 463-8637.

Service

Join Kappa Kappa Gamma in
bridging the generation gap at
the Mayflower Home for the
Elderly on Main Street every
Monday from 34 p.m. Every-
one, students and faculty alike,
is invited to take part in our
philanthropic project.

Raffle

The Independent Union is
holding a raffle during Parents’
Weekend. A $20 gift certificate
to the Palms, good for food and
alcohol, will be given away.
Each ticket is $1. The drawing
will be held during half time of
the football game. See John
Durant, Bob Martin, or John
Vittori to purchase tickets.

There will be a meeting of
the Independent Union Monday,
Oct. 23 at 8:15 p.rn. in room
109 of the University Center.

Brother/sister

Applications for the Big
Brother/Big Sister Program for
community adolescents are due
Wednesday, Oct. 25 in Carol
Calkin’s office. If you have not
picked up an application, they
are available in the lobby of the
University Center.

Foreign study

The Foreign Study Commit-
tee IS sponsoring an information
session for foreign study and in-
tercollegiate exchange programs
in 1990. The meeting will be
held Tuesday. Oct. 24 at 7 pm,
in room 114 of the Student Cen-
ter. The information being dis-
cussed includes the Seven Col-
lege Exchange Program (Hollins,

Sweet Briar, ‘Bates, etc.) African
and Asian studies in London,
Uf1iV6fS.ily of Massachusetts Pro-
grams in China, and W & L
spring term programs in France,
Germany, Great Britain, the
Mediterranean area, Spain, Rus-
sia, and the Galapagos Islands.
Information about summer study
and academic—year programs will
also be available.

Politics flick

The Politics Department will
be showing Power (1985; direc-
tor-Sidney Lumet) at 7 pm. to-
night in room 203 of Reid Hall.
This timely cinematic essay,
which stars Richard Gere and
Gene Hackman, criticizes the
growing reliance of politics on
alternative power-holders besides
the traditional democratic and
non-democratic homo politicus.
Next Wednesday and Thursday
at 7 p.m. the Politics Department
will show Robocop.

T-shirts

Anyone interested in re-
ordering Late Night at W&L T-
shirts (with top 10 list on back)
must sign up outside the SAB
office m the University Center
before Monday, Oct. 23. Contact
Michael’ Applebaurn about bil-
mg.

“Campus Reps Needed" earn big
commissions and free trips by selling
Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun,
Mexico, Jamaica & Ski trips to Ver-
mont & Colorado. For more informa-
tion call toll free 1-800-344-8360 or in
Ct. 203-967-3330.

Lonely? Need a Date?

Meet that special
someone today!
Call DATETIME
(405) 366-6335

<\‘‘’'

Right

0006

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Standard 10% Discount

-With Student I.D.

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

ciudiotronics

VIRGININS STEREO SPECIALIST

DENON ALPINE
ADCOM BOSTON
B&O CWD

KEF SONANCE
SIGNET B&K
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL‘
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

‘“subllminal message - The Ring-tum Phi is a great paper — end subliminal message"“

 

 

DO IT

Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge

 

1 15 S. Main St., Lexington’

Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

463-2 742

 

Lexington Lighting

Welcome Back Students.’
We have Study Lamps, Table Lamps, and Floor Lamps.
Come by!

26 South Main Street
Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.

Lexington. Va. 24450-2523

(703) 463-9338

  

Arway Kirby

 

Get a head of your conzpetition
with our résumé packages.

 

GOLDEN
CORRAL

,,Opcn Mon.-Thurs- II a.m. - I0 pm.
Fri. & Sat. Ila.m. - IIp.m.

Hi-Speed Copying - Desktop Publishing - FAX - Design Graphics
463-1712 ° [25 W. Nelson, Lexington ° FAX 463-6918

     

 

Buy a Salad Bar
Meal for $3. 99 -
Steak Dinner
Only 99°!

 

DEAVERS ALLEY
BUSINESS SERVICES

Our Typing
is

Word Perfe ct‘

    

8:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M.
Evenings and Weekends by Appointment
203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9455

     

6

C’

A

6

-)

THINK SPRING - Out—going? Well-
organized? Promote & Escort our
FLORIDA SPRING BREAK trip.
GOOD PAY & FUN. Call Campus
Marketing.
1-800-423-5264.

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies’ .
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main SI. (703) 463-5908

with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

 

   

RESERVE OFFlCERS'TRAINIIlIG CORPS“

ppnrurrr KNOCKS on THESE

DOORS FIRST.

Why? Because Army ROTC helps you develop

management and leadership skills. Builds your self-

confidence. And makes you a desirable candidate
in the job market.

There’s no obligation until your junior year, but
stick with it and you'll have what it takes to succeed
—while you're in college and once you graduate.

 

ARMY ROTC

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

Contact: Capt. Ramos
463-8485

 

 

Q

1
Ir
'5

5

c

O

  

SPORTS

‘Field of Doom’ claims another

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men's
soccer team settled for a tie and
picked up a victory in two Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
games last week.

On Saturday, the
traveled to Norfolk. Against
perennial regional power Virginia
Wesleyan, W&L came back to even
the score from one goal deﬁcits in
each half and had two goals
nullified by the same linesman.

The Generals took a 1-0 lead 15
minutes into the contest when
freshman midfielder Reid Murphy
headed a throw-in from senior co-
captain Patrick Brown into the left
side of ?the net.

The Blue Marlins knotted the
score at 1-1 minutes later. Stoppage
of play for a yellow card resulted in
a lapse of concentration. When
action resumed, Virginia Wesleyan
immediately put the ball past junior
goaltender Jon Bull.

Ten minutes later, Virginia
Wesleyan went up 2-1 on a shot off
of a deﬂected ball.

With a few minutes remaining in
the first half, W&L scored its
second goal. After breaking away
with the ball from midﬁeld and
outrunning the Blue Marlins’
sweeper, sophomore David De Falco
chipped the ball over a charging
goalkeeper from the top of the
penalty box for his first goal of the
season.

Generals

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

It has been a relatively injury
free year in games that the
Washington and Lee football team
has played in. Up until this past
week, only Rich Poli had sustained
0 a serious injury in games W&L has
played.

On Saturday, despite a fine
4 defensive effort from the Generals
and an almost perfect execution of
an offense by Hampden-Sydney, the
[play that stands out most was an
‘ injury.

In the middle of the third period,

9 after driving almost the length of
‘the ﬁeld, H-SC I-back Len
Amistrong carried for a gain of six,
,but was hit and fumbled. W&L’s
Scott Williamson recovered. On the
‘play, Armstrong was injured and
&remained on the ground, motionless
for close to 15 minutes receiving

medical attention before he was
taken to the hospital for x—rays.
Both head coaches and training

staffs looked on to make sure that
g the injury was not a serious one.
Said Generals’ head coach Gary
«Fallon, “We got word after the
game that the young man is alright.
‘*1 don’t like to see anyone go down
.. like that. It looked like he got hit
from behind and from the front,
‘with the force coming from the
‘front, and he could have hurt his
lower back.
. “I just pray

that it wasn’t

   

 

Prescriptions
Charge Accounts

  

   

 

Halloween Delights.
, Disguises.
Cards and Candy.

& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Ope'n daily 10 AM — 8 PM

-

-.

 

(M<CIUM OIUS

0 Cosmetics ‘Per/itmes
0 Free Delivery

.--r<.<- . .,.._........-1..

The Generals then began to find
their rhythm as they dominated play
for the rest of the half.

W&L tied the score again when
freshman Mike Mitchem delivered a
rolling pass to senior Rick Silva,
who drilled the ball into the net
from six yards away.

With the score tied at 3-3, W&L

sent the ball into the Virginia
Wesleyan goal two more times.
Each time the head referee

signalled the goal as legitimate, but
each time a linesman ruled that the
Generals were offsides. After
conferring with the linesman, the
referee did not allow the goals to
stand.

W&L head coach Rolf Piranian
said that one of the goals should
have counted.

“There's no question that we
were onsides for the first one,” he
said.

Neither team had decisive
scoring opportunities in the overtime
period and W&L walked away with
its second tie of the season, 3-3.

On a cold, wet, and gray
afternoon at what has become a
Field of Doom for W&L opponents.
W&L opponents had mustered only
a tie in five attempts to defeat the
Generals at home this season.

Although Eastern Mennonite’s
record is 4-11 (1-5 in the ODAC),
they had only allowed 19 goals in
their first 14 games. A big reason
for the Royals’ stingy defense is
junior goaltender Jeremy Nafziger
who had only allowed 1.36 goals

serious for any young man in any
sport. You don’t like to see that
kind of injury because it takes away
from the game of football itself.”

Things started very well for the
Generals. On the Tigers first play
from scrimmage, Armstrong fumbled
going into the line and junior free
safety Clark Wight recovered on the
H-SC 37-yard line.

The Fling-tum Phl, October 19, 1989

per game.

Eastern Mennonite scored the
only goal of the first half at the
23:28 mark when sophomore Cory
Longacre streaked down the right
side with the ball before sending to
the middle of the penalty box to
teammate Ken Beidler, who directed
his shot off Bull’s outstretched arms
into the goal. .

In the second half, the Generals
simply dominated the action, and
sent shot after shot in the direction
of Nafziger, who made 15 saves
during the contest.

Yet with 2:50 remaining in the
game, W&L received another
penalty shot. In a substitution
mixup, the Royals were short three
players as the Generals were about
to take a comer kick. To avoid
playing short-handed, a Royal
defenseman reached up and grabbed
the ball in the penalty box. This
time, sophomore David Hooker took
the free kick and sent into the right
side of the net to tie the game at 1-
1.

At the 1:10 mark the Royals got
their only shot of the second half —
and made it count as Beidler sent it
into the back of the goal for a 2-1
lead for Eastern Mennonite.

While Nafziger and a teammate
were trying to kill the ﬁnal minute
of playing time, Murphy caught the
pair asleep. The freshman rushed at
Nafziger, knocked the ball loose
with a slide tackle, popped back to
his feet and left-footed the ball into
an empty net with 39 seconds to go

forcing a ﬁeld goal attempt from
junior Carter Quayle. Quayle’s
attempt from 36 yards out was no
good, and the Generals were turned
away.

Early in the second quarter, H-
SC’s David Brickhill was no good
on a 47-yard field goal attempt, and,
much the same as W&L’s game
against Centre, the defenses took

Brad Miller
15 tackles

Two Phillip Sampson
completions, one to senior tight end
Bob Martin and one to junior split
end Craig Irons, got the Generals
down to the Tiger 13-yard line.
Senior fullback Russell Crosby took
the ball down to the 11, but
Sampson was sacked on third down,

    

  
 

      

Firveﬂuisine ’
iiiiiiiiiosiimsm:

‘Dull! non of coolly hot‘
ITIAI3 0 SEA F000 - CIIICKEN
GIIEI O ITALIAN aPIiA:lAl.'l‘lB

- canvwrnnux ‘

ﬁQJ3AA.'lo&fJ.
‘Gt

 

@-luﬁﬁ

ﬁﬂé “

¢l$&$ Iilﬂﬂ |-IiV1.VL '

  

Ecumenical Twilight
Retreat

    
 

on

RACISM

Wed., Oct. 25, 4-8 p.m.
Cora Marie Billings will lead an in-

quiry into personal and global
racism.

  
    
   

  

 
    
    
 
 

at

St. Patrick’s Church
221 W. Nelson St.
Dinner will be provided
please call 463-3533 for reservations.

 
     
   

113)‘

  
       
     
     
  

    

John McCallum
13 tackles

over, keeping opposing offenses in
check for the first half.

Late in the first half though, the
Tigers forced the Generals to punt
from deep in W&L territory, and
junior Mason Pope’s punt went just
31 yards, giving the Tigers excellent
field position at the W&L 48.

FLAS KS

Pewter
Leather
Plastic

18 E. Nelson St.(Rt. 60)
Downtown Lexington . 463-1300

Mon.-Thur. to-5; Fri. to-5:30; Sat. 10-4

Sophomore David Hooker’s penalty shot tied the
soccer game against Eastern Mennonite and

in the game.

At 9:53 of the second overtime
period, the Generals finished their
tough comeback when Brown
received a pass from Silva and
headed the ball into the net to nail

H-SC wins injury-marred game

Quarterback Dwayne Bowyer,
starting in place of injured Ben
Comer (broken collar bone), for _the
Tigers, ran seven yards on first
down and found tight end John
Jewell for 13 yards on second
down. After a time out,. Bowyer
found Armstrong for 24 yards down
to the W&L four, and three plays
later, Armstrong scooted into the
end zone from one yard out to
provide the Tigers all the points
they would need with 23 seconds
left in the half.

“I thought our defense played
quite well at times,” said Fallon.
“We missed some scoring
opportunities and left our defense
out on the field too long in the
heat. [The heat’s] no excuse, but
you just can’t allow your defense to
be on the field that long, and I
think they got worn down a little
bit.”

To start the second half, the
Generals took the kickoff and made
their only sustained drive, going
from their own 12 to the Hampden-
Sydney 40. On first down from the
40, Pope carried for 10 tough yards,
but fumbled fighting for extra yards,
and the Tigers recovered. .

On the Tigers’ ensuing drive.
following a 26 yard completion
from Bowyer to Tony Thomas on
second and 16 to the W&L 33,
Armstrong fumbled. Williamson
recovered for W&L and returned to
the W&L 20.

D Please see SQUIDS page 6

K .

Aerobics  Karate
Weights

We Make Fitness Fun!
16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

George’s
Hairstylist

_l36 Varner Lane
l)irectl_\ behind l.cg2ett's
463-3975
We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell

Open Evenings

Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

RT 5, BOX 379
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE HI

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales

Lee Hi Restaurant

703-4638-‘-78

1-800-768—LEHl

down a 3-2 win.

With the win, the Generals
moved to 5-5-2 overall and 3-1-1 in
ODAC play. With a win over
conference foe Randolph-Macon, the

started the Generals on their way to a 3-2 over-
time win. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Generals could host the post season
tournament.

On Saturday, the Generals look
to gain their first win on the road
with a game at Washington College.

Tough defense not enough

in 2-0 loss to

Lynchburg

By John Dukes
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee
volleyball team started slow and
then rallied last week in winning
three out of four matches, including
two in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference play.

Said Generals head coach Susan
Dittman, “I think We’re back on
track now. We’re ecstatic about our
win over Roanoke. We've gotten
super play from Lisa Jay, and Mena
McGowin has been outstanding.
We’re hoping it continues.”

The Generals showed their
strength in coming from behind
after losing two of the first three
games of their ODAC match against
Roanoke College. The final scores
were 4-15, 15-12, 9-15, 16-14, 15-
12.

Against Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, the Generals’
strong play posted game scores of
17-15, 15-13, 15-6. They easily
handled Catholic by scores of 15-5,
15-11.

On Tuesday, the Generals visited
Harrisonburg to take on ODAC
power Eastern Mennonite. The
Generals fought hard but lost in
three straight games after leading in
two.

Sophomore Mena McGowin’s
turned in an outstanding week,
registering 42 kills in the first three
games. She also has a .2A7 attack

 

Mena McGowin

percentage, which ranks her among
the ODAC leaders. Connie
Papazickos and Rashrni Sachan have
also been the teams top servers,
with percentages of .939 and .935,
respectively. ’

The Generals are overall 6-12,
and 4-2 in ODAC competition.

The Generals are fighting in a
tight race in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference as they are in
third place behind unbeaten leaders
Bridgewater, and Eastern Mennonite.

The Generals will next be in
ODAC action on October 20 at

,home against Hollins and Guilford

at 6:00 p.m. The Generals will
travel to Sweet Briar for a
conference game on Tuesday before
returning home to entertain ODAC
rival Emory and Henry’ on
Wednesday.

Wrapped

Half Price ..

Cash
and

Autumn Flowers
‘K ,.

Carry .;‘
Saturdays 1/; ~

‘Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson
Lexington, Va. 24450
-( 703) 463-9841

,..._
’ .

 

 

SQUIDS

from page 5

 

After the delay, the Generals
could not muster any real scoring
opportunities, and the Tigers put the
game away in the fourth quarter
with a 32 yard ﬁeld goal after the
Generals were offsides on a fourth-
and-one. To nail the coffin shut,
Bowyer went in for the fmal score
on a four-yard run on fourth and
goal to make the score 17-0.

Said Fallon, “It just looked like
it wasn’t to be on this given day."

Junior safety Brad Miller turned
in a tearn-leading performance for
the Generals defense, registering 15
tackles. Sophomore defensive end
John McCallum was in on 13
tackles as well.

Next the Generals, now 3-3, 1-2
in conference play, will make the
trip across Termessee to Sewanee.
The Generals will be battling a bit
of the injury bug. Senior comerback
Bland Warren, who did not play
against Hampden-Sydney is again
doubtful with a neck problem.
Junior slot back Carl Gilbert broke
a ﬁnger and is doubtful, and senior
quarterback Chris Smythe broke his
nose and will not play.

Last year, in a game that was
closer than the score would indicate,
the Generals beat the Tigers 21-0.
Said Fallon, “Three times early on
they were knocking at our doorstep,
but our defense was able to keep
them out before we got a chance to
do something offensively."

Kick off is at 1:30. Catch all the
action on the Washington and Lee
Sports Network (WLUR-FM and
WREL—AM) starting at 1:15.

Washington andLee 0 0 0 0
llampden-Sydney 0 7 0 10

H-SC-Armstrong 1 run (Mallia kick)
H-SC-Field goal Brickhill 35
H-SC—Bowyer 4 run (Mailis kick)

-- I
--17

Individual Rushing
W&L-Pope 9 can-iea—44 yards, Crosby 3-5,
Sampson 5-(-17), Jacksm 2-2. H-SC-Lardner 13-
58, Amistrong 12-53, Duncan 10-69. Bowyer 13-
29. Amos 2-16, Waskey 1-(-3).

Individual Passing
W&L-Sampson 25 completions-34 attanpts-1
interception-201 yards. H-SC-Bowyer 13-17-0-
171, Amos 0-l-0.

Individual Receiving
W&L-Pope 8 catches-75 yards, Martin 5-39,
Irons 4-38, Crosby 3-9, Gilbert 2:-26, Hodges 2-9.
Jackson 1-5. H-SC-Jewell 5-78, Wukey 3-21,
Thomas 2-34, Armstrong 2-29, Lardna 1-9.

   

The Rlng-tum Phl, October 19, 1989

 

F r o in W 8: L
Information

Sports

The Washington and Lee
cross country teams travelled last
weekend to the Virginia State
meet. Both teams improved over
last year's performances.

The men finished fourth in
the meet, improving on last
year's fifth-place finish.

The women finished third,
improving on last season’s
fourth-place finish.

This Saturday, both the men,
3-3 on the season, and the wom-
en. 3-l will run in a meet

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

involving Old Dominion Athletic
Conference foes. The men will
run against Bridgewater and
Emory and Henry while the
women run against Mary Bald-
win and E&H. Virginia Tech
will also run in the meet.

This past week, the Wasliing-
ton and Lee women's tennis
team won three matches.

The Generals blanked
Glassboro State and Hollins 9-0.
Glassboro was ranked in the na-
tion's top 30 before the loss.
The Generals also defeated
Methodist College 6-3.

 

Volleyball comes on strong
for close conference wins

By Holly Goodlng
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee
wornen’s soccer team continues to
play well defensively, but a lack of
scoring has continued to hurt the
team.

On Saturday, the Generals
traveled to Greensboro where they
took on Guilford College. The team
played well, but was unable to
score. The defense saved the day, as
junior goalie Sherri Brown pitched
her fifth shutout of the season,
giving the Generals a 0-0 deadlock.

Despite the lack of goals, head
coach Jan Hathom was not
disappointed. “I was really pleased
with the game. It was fun because
we played well and I was proud of
our effort. However, we are still
having problems generating our
attack.”

The Generals took on Lynchburg
College at home on Tuesday in an
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
game. The game was a very even,
very sportsmanlike game.

The ﬁnal statistics showed that
the game was closely played — each
team was credited with six shots on
goal and each goalie recorded four
saves.

Lynchburg, however, led in the
only category that mattered, the
score. The first goal of the game

came with seven and a half minutes
left to go in the first half, when the
Lynchburg team broke away with
the ball, and triple-teamed All-
ODAC sweeper Nancy Mitchell,
who was unable to save the day as
a Lynchburg forward broke free and
one-tirned the ball past Brown for
the only goal of the half.

Lynchburg took some of the
steam out of the Generals play by
scoring a second goal with about
fifteen minutes left in the game.

On a free kick, a Hornet player
was left unguarded in front of the
goal and put the ball past a diving
Brown. The Generals offense was
never able to get going, and
Lynchburg prevailed 2-0.

Hathom was nevertheless pleased
with the game. “The team played
hard, and it was a tough game.
The second goal took some wind
out of us, but we played well. We
have learned a lot and we learn
more with each game. We have a

good team.”

The Generals, 4-5-3, 2-3-1 in
ODAC play, will play their final
home game of the season was
played this afternoon against arch-
rival Hollins College. On Tuesday,
the ODAC tournament begins. The
Generals will likely be matched up
with Roanoke Salem in a game to
be played in Salem.

Presentation:

Investment Banking

Opportunities at

First Boston

First Boston, a special bracket investment banking ﬁrm, headquartered in
New York, will be recruiting for its ﬁnancial analyst program. Positions
are available in the Investment Banking, Mergers and Acquisitions, Real
Estate, Sales & Trading and Public Finance Departments. All students are
cordially invited to attend a presentation.

Thursday, October 26, 1989
Commerce School 221
3:30 p.m.

Resumes will be accepted at the Career Development & Placement Office
until Novemeber 14, 1989.

For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact:

Rowan G.P. Taylor
Mergers and Acquisitions
(212) 909-4806

FIRST BOSTON

Park Avenue Plaza
New York, N.Y. 10055

Polo falters at Annapolis

 

By Chris Baradel
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee water
polo team returned from last
weekend's trip to the Southeastern
Varsity Invitational tournament
poorer of record, but richer in the
knowledge that they could compete
with and beat some of the nation's
best teams.

The unranked Generals managed
to subdue 20th-ranked Bucknell,
taking some sting out of their first
losses of the year at the hands of
15th-ranked Brown and 19th—ranked
Harvard. “They believe in
themselves now,” said. head coach
Page Remillard. “They don’t like
losing.”

The tournament began poorly, as
Brown trounced W&L by a score of
15-3. The Generals jumped out to
an early lead, but by halftime
Brown was controlling the game.
According to Remillard, his team
was hurt by their unfamiliarity with
the regulation size pool that the
tournament was played in.

A regulation size pool, which
Brown has, is as wide as
Washington and Lee’s pool is long.

The second game went
considerably more to the liking of
the many W&L fans who were in
Annapolis, as the Generals
regrouped to beat Bucknell 9-6.
Sophomore Alan Herrick echoed
his scoring explosion against
Richmond three weeks ago with a
four goal, two steal effort.
Classmate Jay Smith had two goals,

and junior Tomas Perez, sophomore
Will Davis, Scott Strader, and
freshman Scott Strader. Perez added
two assists.

Senior goalie David Olson
distinguished himself as well, with
eights blocks and a team-high three
steals.

However, it was the final game
that the team will remember most, a
12-6 loss to Harvard. It was a game
that was much closer than the score
would indicate. “We're frustrated,”
said Remillard. “We could have
beaten Harvar .”

 

“They believe In
themselves now.
They don ’t like
losing.”

—Page Flemillard

Indeed, with two minutes to go
in the first half, a W&L victory
looked very possible. The teams
were tied at four-all, until Harvard
scored the first of what would be
seven unanswered goals.

Six of these nails in the W&L
coffin came in the third quarter, in
which W&L could not muster a
goal. The third quarter lapse was a
symptom of the disease that
afﬂicted Washington and Lee all
tournament long: the inability to
play at their customary high level
right after halftime.

‘ ‘We‘ve talked about the
importance of the third quarter, but
it hasn’t helped,” Remillard said.

i

For the tournament, W&L wits
outscored by a frightening 13'-2
margin in the third quarter. ‘ ‘ They
scored on our mistakes,” said
Remillard. “They got the game
under control from turnovers on our
part. We weren’t ready for the
overall intensity of the game.” .
He added that the tearn’s overall

youth wasn‘t a factor in the third

quarter meltdown, choosing inste d
to credit Harvard with helping
create W&L breakdowns. 1 V,‘
Remillard saw the team;/S
troubles capsulized in the probler 5
of the goalie. “David Olson is 0
leader,’’ he said. “He got upset [in

the third quarter] and lost focus. V;*,=_ V

lost control of ourselves and thus
the game because we weren't used
to losing. We’ve come from behird
before this year and we needed to
remember that.” '

However, Remillard was very
pleased with the way the team came
back in the fourth quarter. “W'e
figured out our mistakes too late,
but we figured therri out,” he said.

“In the third quarter we let
down and got killed," explaine
Davis. “We came out in the fourth
quarter like it was a new game. We
wanted to win the fourth quarter t
prove to ourselves that we shoul
have won the game.”

Next week, W&L, now 12-2 0
the season, goes to Richmond fo

the Southern Tournament,
tournament that will establish th
seedin gs for the Conferenc -

championships that follow in tw
weeks.

Now Everyone Can Stand ;
Out In A Crowd 1 1

   

Tanglewood Mall, Roanoke, Va. For Men and Women ‘
Valley View Mall, Roanoke, Va. For Women 6
Barricks Road North, Charlottesville, Va. For Men and Women i

 

W&L|FE

The Ring-tum Phi, October 19, 1989

Where is Margaritaville?

By Chris Swann
Staff Reporter

In an age where celebrities
publish books left and right, mostly
to backstab each other or to get a
buck, one famous music personality
has written a collection of "fictional
facts and factual fictions," a
romantic, hilarious and often
touching work dealing with dreams
coming true, love found, lost and
found again, and the search for an
elusive "Margaritaville," an island
paradise "sung into creation" by the
author more than a decade ago.
This book, Tales From
Margaritaville, is written by none
other than Jimmy Buffett, singer
and songwriter of "Margaritaville,"
"Son of a Son of a Sailor," and
countless other songs known by
heart by Parrotheads (Buffett fans)
everywhere. For those of you who
wear ﬂip-ﬂops and shorts in the
dead of winter, have baseball caps
with shark fins attached to them,
and love to sip frozen tropical
drinks while playing a Jimmy
Buffett tape, you will find this book
to be a fantastic collection of stories
written by a familiar friend that
complements his music well. For
those of you who do not like
Jimmy Buffett music (God help
you), you will still find this to be
an entertaining piece of southern

.l  » . - .
_ E; .<.‘dIllir
T’ liriiiiiiigll

literature, the best to have come out  '3

in a long while.

Jimmy Buffett, the creator of
"drunk Caribbean rock and roll" as
he _calls it, has been one of the
most original musical performers in
the past twenty years, blending
reggae, calypso, country, jazz and
rock to create a distinctive style all
his own. But Mr. Buffett has also
written fiction and non-fiction in the
past; he published The Jolly Mon, a
children’s book, with his daughter
Savannah Jane in 1988, and he has
written several articles urging the
environmental preservation of the
Florida coastline and the manatee in
the Miami Herald and other
newspapers and magazines. Tales
From Margaritaville, however, is his
first fictional work aimed at an

. adult audience.

In his book, Jimmy Buffett has
created the fictional settings of
Snake Bite Key and Heat Wave,
Alabama, as the background for a

series of fictional short stories. He
v has captured a gypsy—1ike spirit
looking for sunshine and new

places, a romantic desire to see the
ocean and lead a happy life, and
has transformed these feelings into
his characters, such as Tully Mars,
the Wyoming cowboy who leaves
his old life behind him to take his
horse across the U.S. to find the
ocean and the island paradise of his
dreams in "Take Another Road";
Romeo Fleming, former New York
Giants football player and now part-
time English teacher turned football
coach who makes his Heat Wave
High Lizards into an inspired team
in "Off To See The Lizard"; Jim

~ Gregario Fuentes,

Delaney, the young man who takes
an incredible road trip with his hell-
raising Uncle Billy in "The
Pascagoula Run"; and Isabella, the
wandering Caribbean beauty
searching for a home and finding
love in "I Wish Lunch Could Last
Forever." It is not by accident that
these titles are the same as those of
songs off of Buffett’s new album,
"Off To See The Lizard;" the two
works were written simultaneously,
and the songs are shorter musical
versions of the stories themselves.
Some of these stories are also taken
from the author’s past experiences
as a music man and travelling

romantic, dealing with his "old
pirate buddies," a trip to the
Yucatan Peninsula with his
daughter, the author’s encounter

with Buffett’s fictional hero Freddy
Fishsticks, and an emotional meeting
in Havana between Buffett and

inspiration for Ernest Hemingway’s
The Old Man and the’Sea.

What makes this book great as a
whole is how the characters and
their wishes are tied in with each
other. Each of these people have
unique personalities and means of
expressing themselves, but Buffett
has given them the same basic
desire, a want to live out their
dreams in a world full of growing
condominiums and nouveau riche
entrepreneurs interested in money.
He has blended myth and reality
well, showing his characters grow
and change as they appear in more
than one story. Eugene "Balls"

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES 8: CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Ion.-Sat. 10-5

31 S. Main St., Lexington

I67 S. Main St.

Where else can you go and charge
groceries home to mom and dad?

Stop by and open an account today!

Serving the W&L Community for over 35 years.

463-3355

 

the model and‘ 0‘

Rawls and Willett Rainer Snow,
Buffett’s football heroes from "Off
To See The Lizard," are found later
and years older in "The Swamp
Creature Let One In," taking their
frustrations of age out on the golf
course and reminiscing about the
old glory days. Buffett creates a
great antagonism between Rawls and
Louis Huckle, better known as
"Lard Ass" in this story; Huckle
represents what Jimmy Buffett calls
the "condo commando", a species
found all over Southern Florida
wearing wraparound shades and
hideous Hawaiian shirts,
obnoxiously showing off their
money and prowess at the golf
course. This is an extremely funny
story, culminating in a five-thousand
dollar bet between Rawls and
Huckle on a hole—in—one, and it also
shows how an older man tries to
recaptgggsome of the fun and glory
of his youth. T

Jimmy’ Buffett has often been
asked, "Where is Margaritaville?"
He shows us in his book that
Margaritaville isn't as much a place
as it is a state of mind, a fulfillment
of one’s deep—seated dreams and
fantasies. Buffett takes his
characters through whirlwind lives
of laughter and tears as they search
for this state of mind, and he makes
his readers laugh and cry along with
Tully Mars, "Balls" Rawls and
himself in this incredible collection
of short stories written by a man
who’s literary ability will surprise
and please both his music fans and
his new reading audience as well.

Want to earn extra money on
campus?
Call 463-2486 days
348-5731 nights

if

W&L plates are available

annual $25 registration fee.

:4

Washington and Lee license plates are a new
way for students, faculty and alumni to show their
school spirit. The license plates, which have only
been available since May 1989, display the W&L
crest and “Washington and Lee University." The

Department of Motor Vehicles for $25 plus the
For an additional
$10, you can personalize your W&L license plate
with a combination of six letters and numbers. It
usually takes sixty days for delivery.

Students, faculty, and alumni not wishing to

p\),",:s,$ H l  {it}  Xklll l

l

i\ixl l€\il>,

W&L license plates available

register their cars in Virginia can purchase a W&L
license plate for $25 to display in a dorm room or
an office. These sample plates can be ordered
the Department

from
Lexington.
from Virginia's , _
in Richmond,
purchased W&L

of Motor Vehicles in

According to the Department of Motor Vehicles

several people

I have already
license plates.

Robin Dru, a

loyal Washington and Lee sophomore, sports a
W&L license plate on her Chrysler Laser.
says, ‘l love where I go to school, and I want

She

people to know it." Staff photo by Cary Baber.

ROTC sponsors rapelling

By Kevin Carl
Staff Reporter

“Lane One, On rappel!” came
the cry from the top of the VMI
cliffs. “Lane One, On Belay!”
came the response from below.
With that W&L student Jennifer
Fischer began her rappel down the
VMI cliffs during the open rappel
on Wednesday, October 4.

The event was sponsored by the
W&L Army ROTC department in
order to give W&L students the
opportunity to try something new
and challenging.

“I didn’t know how it would
go,” said Jennifer Lohse, a
freshman. “I‘m usually afraid of
heights, but I soon realized as long
as I concentrated on where I was
going I’d be okay. Having the
support and encouragement of the
people there helped me overcome
my fear, and rappel down the
cliffs.”

John Suttle, an experienced
rappeler from Abilene, Texas said

.,. _. , ~

W&L student Russell Leavitt rappels down the VMI cliffs. ROTC photo.

he had rack],-,d some rougher cliff off of the footbridge leading to a great time.”

faces, but that “the experience was
a lot of fun and the people were
great.”

Instruction is given by the W&L
Cadet Ranger Company, which does
several each year, including some

Lost! White cat, female, one blue

eye. one green eye, answers to
Amy.
Lost in the Red Square

/Washington St. area. Please call
463-1750 ifany information.

 

463-3 106

Ideal Barber Shop

Welcome back to W&L
Come visit us
We also have a ladies haircutter

22 S. Main St.

Under lst American Bank

Sherry, Angie, Rita and Kelly would
like to welcome all students to

* Shear Timing

Family Hair Care

Where we provide you with all your hair care
services and tanning
Call or stop by for an appointment
464-1145

17 S. Randolph St.
(Across from Sycamore Farm Market)

 

R.E. Lee Memorial Church

Guest Preachers This Sunday, Oct. 22:
The Reverend & Mrs. Ricardo Garcia

Ministers in Guatemala
8:30, 10:30 a.m., and 5:00 p.m.
Holy Eucharist
Meet the Garcias between the morning services in the Parish Hall, after the 5 p.m.

service, or at the Student Bible Study at 6 p.m.
All Undergraduate Students Welcome.

FUNDRAISER

A free gift just for calling - plus raise up to
$1,700 in only 10 days.

Student groups, fraternities and sororities need for
marketing project on campus. For details plus a FREE
GIFT, group offices call 1-(800)-950-8472, ext. 0.

1st Floor Reid Hall
Come to your Printing Center for:
FLYERS & POSTERS

- Copying & printing

- Programs

- Newsletters

””"’””"” HINTINGC Ni

The Printing Center has added a Macintosh llx, Scanner, and Laser-
Writer II to its service. The Macintosh will read MS-DOS disks. We can
add scanned images to add to your posters or tlyers. Stop by and pick
up a pamphlet about this equ|pment's capabilities.

 

463-8448

- Custom RESUMES 8. letters
- Transparencies

- Brochures 8. Booklets

- Scanning

Wilson Field and some at night.
“Although I’ve rappeled
already," said freshamn Jim
Mobley, “this was the first time
down a cliff. I found the sergeants
It was

very supportive and helpful.

SPRING BREAK 1990

Individual or student organization
needed to promote our Spring Break
Trips. Earn money, free trips and
valuable work experience. Apply

Now! Call Inter-Campus programs 1-
800-327-6013

°Chosen

 

visit

  

What a quality quftsi: I 

American Embassy
-Award Winner, 1988 Quilt Show
at Woodlawn Plantation, Mt. Vernon

Quilters of Virginia

The W&L ROTC department
often receives permission to use the
cliffs, and opens these opportunities
to W&L students. Two more open
rappels are planned for later this
semester.

St. Patrick’s Church

Teleconference on Fundamen-
talism “Which came first: Bible
or Church?” Thurs.. Oct. 26,
8:30-10:30 at Northern
Auditorium.

Sponsored b_\ Catholic Campus Ministry

 

for display in an

Now located at 22 W. Washington St., Lexington, Va.

_._,.-_._ T/1 e__._L

WILLSON-

Hi3USEliW,

Reslaurantl

30 N. Main St.
Lexiiigtoii

wALKEmQ§

i.-ll-I

Parent’s Weekend
Sunday, October 29th
CHAMPAGNE BR UNCH

12:00 -

l
l
I l

2:30

463-3020

  

 

 

 

 

 

 t  ]PAGE

., ... mm as

The Ring-rum Phl, October 19, 1989

   

‘~‘ft)l'lLl is very large and very cold.
'i‘»’ii;ii we instead desire is the
«iniii of marriage and a spouse
'i‘l'l‘.il is still cross—eyed with love
i. i - :ei‘it‘i' fifty years.
' Billy Crystal

’.l1»’l

  

("Memories of

"The Princess Bride") is cast
\ ix. the role of Harry Bums.

When
:‘ilnis starts Harry is a cynical
 lent froir‘. New Jersey. Harry
iiiiiisr that he is the kind of gtty
\»'ll.}, when purchasing a book, will
 the last page first. Then if
1 comes by surprise, he will
». l.i,i;-~.' how the book ends. Sally

i ~~ V .»\..liw,t:'ht is played by "Top Gun"
.. I ii~..ss Meg Ryan. If Harry is a

then Sally is a perfectionist.
files the titles of her video
.t‘.~“-‘.l.I'."»', plans cross—country trips
llil." thoroughly than A.A.A., and

‘i ..'i'»:<;-s ordering food in a restaurant

‘ :»..Icr than a shuttle launch.

::;illy and Harry first meet after

‘ ‘Iillg from the University of

"ii. They are thrown together
an eighteen hour car trip
C:’.’l‘- Chicago and New York.
the time the trip is over, a

::.il;;iion is laid for their
. i'i.tllm%LlS friendship.

1 ‘E .'i«lI‘l1ll that the film’s plot is
‘1,=viztl: Mr. Slob meets Ms
~.::i »lll‘\'l. Mr. Slob is attracted
 __l’crl'eciionist. Ms Perfeetionist
:,i<.*§l.‘(I out by Mr. Slob. Years

iiitl Slob and Perfectionist are
 ttrawn together. Okay——it is
<i<iii of "The Odd Couple" with
"l‘il players. But despite the
plot, even the grouchiest film-
will find themselves falling
director Reiner’s spell.

i film traces the evolution of
l 3 .~ and Sally’s relationship over
-time of ten years. Harry and
-iiilure all of life’s bumps, and
:"ll(i‘»'lll[1 begins to flourish.
-iiiise as they become closer,
‘ I be haunted by the theory
~..-: 1.1/LC/Ll to Sally ten years
iiiiiii cannot be best friends

. woriien and not want to

‘~*/l.ll tier.

.\ilCllgIl1 of the movie rests

‘~.' on Billy Crystal’s acting
 He got his start on

till Night Live" and became

l« with his wonderful
~t.ll‘r1ll0Il5\' of Fernando Lamas
‘ Davis,jr. However,

:, LIIYII iiy
lZ~ ‘ rtianv of his SNL

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

r.

 

  

 

 

   
 

   

C'.’i‘.InICl‘p1lI’lS, Crystal has managed a.
move beyond weak movie scripts
and shallow comic roles. Say all
you want about Eddie Murphy or
Chevy Chase, but I think that Billy
Crystal is the first SNL veteran to
prove his skills as a serious actor.
l’ll admit that Crystal is funny in
the movie. But his humor is bitter-
sweet, and he gives a honest
performance as a man who doesn't
know if he can really love another
women.

Meg Ryan also turns in a fine
performance. She seems to have
made a career, in films like "Top
Gun"‘and "The Presidio," of playing
rebellious girls with a heart of gold.
She moves beyond her: earlier
typecasting and perhaps elicits as
much sympathy as Crystal. Carrie
Fisher, of "Star Wars" fame, rounds
out the cast as Marie, Sally‘s single
friend who will try anything to
escape from the hostile world of
singles bars. Fisher makes a
noteworthy attempt of avoiding her
"Star Wars" stereotype.- Yet I can
never look at her on screen and not
wonder what Darth Vader is doing.

My job is not to reveal the plot
twists of the movie. Unfortunately,
unless you have lived in the C-
School for the past month, your
friends will have already ruined the
infamous deli scene. I’m going to
behave myself and refrain fron

my Met Sally: pure class

commenting on the scene. I will
remark, however, that it .is the
comedic climax of the film, and
Sally teaches us males a valuable
lesson. No man who sees "When
Harry Met Sally" will ever make
rash statements about others again.
"When Harry Met Sally" is one
of the best films of the year. I
don’t care if it doesn't have car
chases, Jack Nicholson, graphic
violence, or Prince. This film is
pure class from beginning to end.

The movie soundtrack itself is
superb and features Louis
Armstrong, Bing Crosby, Frank
Sinatra, Ray Charles, Harry
Connick, jr., and Ella Fitzgerald.
You can keep Prince and his
Batman videos, I'll take Louis

Armstrong any day of the week.

I tried and tried, but could not
find one fault in the film. Reiner
not only makes the audience laugh,
but he also delivers an important
message on relationships. Billy
Crystal and Meg Ryan make the
most unlikely, yet perfect, screen
couple since Katherine Hepburn and
Spencer Tracy. Peppers grades
"When Harry Met Sally" a solid
 The movie is rated "R" for
language and mild sexual content,
and is playing at the State Theater.
Forget that tonight is not "cheap
night," go out and see the film
before it disappears.

E

MIME

Campus Pap back Bestsellers

1. The Cardinal ol the Kremlin. by Tom Clancy (Berkley. $5.95.)
The rescue of an American secret agent.

2. Yukon Hol, by Bill Watterson. (Andrews & McMeel. $6.95.)
The latest Calvin and Hobbes cartoons.

3. Wildlife Preserves, by Gary Larson. (Andrewsai tillcMee|,
$5.95) Latest collection ol Far Side cartoons.

4. The Mummy, by Anne Rice. (Ballantine, $11.95;)” I
Ramses and Cleopatra come to life in Edwardian England

5. Love in the Time of Cholera, by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. 0
(Penguin, $8.95.) A love story of astonishing power.

6. Zoya, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $5.95.) A women's life
spanning the Russian Revolution to modern day New York. N

7. The Silence of the Lambs. by Thomas Harris. (St. Martin's
Press, $5.95) Hunting down a serial killer on the loose;

8. The Dark Tower: The Gunslinger, by Stephen King.
(NAL/Signet, $4.95.) Young man sets out to conquer evil force.

9. The Dance of Anger, by Harriet Goldhor Lerner. (Perennial,
$8.95.) Guide for improving women‘s personal relationships.

10. Trevayne. by Robert Ludlurn. (Bantam, $5.95.)
The probing of a "hidden government" within the Government.

JOIII 21

Consider these facts:

- -lliiiml (‘\'('l"\‘ .\‘l/Ig/0 "1'iii‘i'i/c/ii" (III ('(II)l/)ll.\

i‘i ii llIl‘i/ll'(’\ tll('U/l/Jl.

.l//liiiiiuli II is I'll('tIu/Iri.w//m‘_\'('1't'r’ ulrnlml IU

tIll\'rlI](’ [(lIIl(‘l' 3/ A\'r'u/is ii/"titre In l’\‘(‘I'_\' .\l(Il(’ III

.1 lli lll(’ l Illilll. Ill(lI‘(’ /lirui ‘)0’/r rt/'lII},'lI .\'t'l1r)()l

ill *' \('/llIll’\ Ii.\r't/ (ll('(I/Nil lnf/'rii‘r' lliovglut/1iuIt’i/.‘

l‘.t'l'(’ “lii/i,ui"' (lI'llIl\(’/'.\

iliirilts ill (lll(' rum’.

/ii «i /lIll'(l.\ ll'(‘/'(' (I('ll\'(' rlI'IIIlit'r.v tllltl Ullt’ llllI'(l

— —lI(ll'l/lg’ /lit’ or iiirrrv

lll('l'(' tilt’ l)lHl'(‘ /liuli .8’ Hiilllri/I /7I'()l)l(’l)I ilri/Ili-

(‘l\ in lll(' I"/iilvtl .8"/trim l?('ll\'(’(’lI lllt’ tight ii/' /4

llllll l"

/ii‘r'—<’ri//i'g'r' i/,u<'.’

.ll i It/iii/x tlll(/ til/I film iI.\wr'l'ir/I'lliii//1I//rriliril

/7/ iIlllt'lll.\ (Il'(’t‘.\/1(’l'l(lll_\‘/7l'I)/)IlIl('/I/ iii/li

ll i‘/IiI'\’¢'I'.\.

(ll](' /li/iil «if all .\l(l(’l(l(’.\ (lllll Nl(’lll¢ll limllli

ilI\ii1'ili’i'\ I/H‘ (l\.\Il('l(l/(’(l ii‘/l/li (Il('(lllIll (Il>lI\('.

lll(' l(’(ItllllL’ ('(Ill.\l' «if I/iv/Ili rriiinitq /Ki-34 _\'i'iri‘—

ii/ilx is irlr Hlllll-l'(’l(ll('(l trim» \l'l'('t'l\.\.

/0.34 _\'r't/ivrilr/\ l‘(‘/7/'(’.\('Hl nnlv /7.50; ri/'

lii t’lI\(’<l ili'I\'¢'i'\ liiil mt/'1' llIl'()ll'(’tl lll ~l().~l’/I (if
ll// /ii/irl (Ill «ilIii/- l'(’l(ll(’(l (‘l'tI.\ll(’.\.

 

\

"mi tlll >ri(i,rli’lr) /l(’(l/l/(' NH’ in/'iiI'i'il (’(l('/I _\‘r'ui' In
(I/t ii/iiil~i vliiivil i'i'i1.tlir1\. 4_i’.()()() ii/"ilirtni
\('l'l(lIl\lA\'.' l)lI)I'(’ /liu/I _’(i,()()() ])t’()/7l(’ il/it r'tIr‘lI
\’i’tl/‘ I/I ll/I'I‘llU/*l'('/(Il('t/ IIl('l(l(’Hl.\.

use ALL Fraternities I
pose alcohol abuse! 7

- Tim (ml Q/'fii‘r' /lnI(‘/‘l('(lII.S' will be lH\'()l\‘(’(l lll
un (Il('()lI()l~I‘(’l(Il(’(/ (‘I’tl.\'lI ul .mn1t' point in IlI(’lI‘

I I l‘(’.\’.

0 Al(‘()lI()ll.\‘I)I is I'(’(‘(l_g’lllI('ll (IS (I (ll.\'('tl.\'(' Iliul llc/.\
.\'(’I‘l()ll.\‘. (/cliililuliiig (ffll’(‘I.\' ()/I Ill(‘ irirllv/'zlIiu/.
IlI<'f2mIiI_\‘. Ilic ('()I'])()I‘(lll()Il and .\(l('l(’I‘_\‘ al
/uI‘_q¢’. Ilf()ll()l\‘.\' u ('lI(Il'(l('l('/'l.\'ll(' <'nIiI‘.tr’ lt‘llll
/\Il(llt‘lI /)ll.\'.\'l('lll. p.\'_\‘r‘lmlnglttrl tllltl .\’m'I'u/
.\‘_\'nI/>rrinI.\. /1 l.\ /7I'n_g'I'r'.s'.\‘ii‘('. lI‘I'('l’(’l‘.\ll7l(’ tllltl.
Ifii/iII’r'uIt’rl. run be final.

This is when were doing about it:

(Il?I{.\’(’ (HI ('(ll)l[}ll.\'(‘.\' (I('l‘(l.\.\ I‘/l(’ (‘(}lIllll‘_\‘.

W&L Weekly Calendar

October 20 to October 29

nun I 0 VIEW” In
W&L Board of Trimees Meeting.

All Day CAREER DEVELOPMENT & I’I.A(‘li.VlI-.NT. Viiluo Viewing (‘I)i\l’ I llliw

6 p.m. VOLLEYBALL. Generals vs llollins and (‘iuillord Wunicr (‘enter

8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Mun Firririg Soiillittitri (Argentina, l‘)tl(ii. (‘lttsxrooiii "A ‘‘ I.t".§l\ li.iil

8 pm. ALCOHOL AWARENESS CONCERT: "l3altleoftlit' Il:ll'ltI.\. ' SIl1(It‘l1l."\’iIl\ilIlt\ l‘.i~.il '

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WATER POLO: Stititherit \‘.‘;itt~r l‘iilii 'lii-.itii.iIiicitl
I1a.m. WOMENS CROSS COUNTRY: Generals‘ vs. \rVt’.\I \ iigiiiizi lctlil I'lllll|') Ii l':'.i » ‘ii it.
Baldwin.

Noon MEN'S (‘ROSS (‘OUNTRY Generals vs Ilriilgewtitur, Wiwt Virgiiiiii Tctli. l.iii:i:_. t\ lll llI‘i
8 p.m. FAIR CO T: Ruckbridgc Chiiiiihcr Iinsciiililc. I-v\ll{ t‘liiiinlit~r Singers \\'illi.iiii

 

M('CorklC, director, Lawrence Eiuiis, huritorit-. Riitli l'llI)II_ \’\l[1l2I1\«l lye (‘li:iix*l
8 pm. FILM SOCIETY: Mart I"iIi‘IrIi; $nu(lii'iL\'l (Argt*Iitiii;i, lﬁlltlii. ('l;i\~rtioiii “A, I t“.\ is iliill
AWAY ATllI.ETl(‘ F.VIZN'I'S’ I:()()'1'IlAl.I.' Sci\.'int'c. .‘\1l-NS S()('( ‘I-.R \\';i~liiii_utiiii
College; WUMENS S(X‘CI-ZR‘ WlIt‘cliItg (‘t\lli'i:i‘.

“(H D 1 QVIQHHS 2‘
Freshman niid—tenn gl;ll1C.\tIl1L‘ by noon
7 pm. LECTURE: "Jap.'Inese—/ttticricaii Rclauonx in the (‘oiitcxt iii a I-’.i\tr('li;iii);iiig \\’oilil.' RI. li.iiil

Pctrcc, Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fclliiw, LICDIII)‘ I" S. rcprcsi-iit;itivc iii the I’ N‘
Rooiti 221, Commerce School Public invitt-tl.

8 p.m. ROCKBRIDGE HISTORICAL SOCII:TY' I.t't’tttrt'. ‘The Wii) \\'c \\'t It'.H Rolicrl I’ R.
Iluntley, Huntort and Williurns and I(\l'T1\t‘l' prcsiilcnt iii \‘»'i’i‘;l. (l‘l(i’i‘r l‘l>s'li. I we (’ii.iiii'l
Public invited.

4 p.m. LECTURE‘ "Careers in liiteniatiiinzil Alltiirx.‘ Mr anil .\lr\ Rlillllltl l’ixict~_ 'i‘. l'iltlIll‘»\ \\ |l\\lll
Visiting Fellows. Room 22l,(‘iimincrcc Scliool. Pulilit lIl\ IIUII

7 pm. INFORMATION SESSION: Foreign Study and IIlICIC(lllt‘glIIIA'Ii\tl\1IIlgCl'ltll1l1llll\ l<i»iiiii l I
University Center.

7:30 pm. TELFORD LECTURE: "US Health (‘tire A S).\Ik'Il1llIlllL'I Siege " i".iiiii*s ll S.iiiiiiiiiii<

 

M.D., W&L '47, executive VILL‘ [lIC\’|(ICIll oi r\l'IlL‘l’l(.lIli\lk‘LIIL‘1|l/\\\tN.lLll.li\li \'iivili~sii
Auditorium, University Library. Piihlit ll’l\.IIL‘(I
8 p.m. CONCERT GUILD: Jose (‘arlos (‘ix‘arclli, [l|£IIll\l It-c (‘li;ipc|.
AWAY A'I'HLIi'l‘I(‘ EVI€.\"T: \/Ol,l.I5.YllAl.l 'Swi'ct ltri.ir

3! Em Esp 1: D r.l.um,B ,5
4 v 8 p.m. ECUMENICAL RI7TRI7.AT()N RACIS\I' St l’:ilrItl§.\ (‘ulliiilii (‘liurtli
4530 pm. GLASGOW F.ND()W.Vl  PROGR/\.\ ~\ l'L‘LlllIIlg ll} Vi. iili.iin l|iilliii:iii_ iimclw tlill xi, ii‘.

story writer. l’\'ortlt<‘n Atitlitiiriiini. l'iii\trsii_\ l.ll‘l:lt}. l‘iili!i; iiii ll; ll

AVVAY ATI'II.I;"l'lC l".VIi.\"l‘ l\‘lI{V S S()('(‘I-IR R'.ii'..ltil(ili Muioit
, .

All Day CAREER DEVEI ()I’l\‘lI'.i\T ANI) Pl /\('l-‘VII-.N'l’ (‘|l.v\l.l I'\‘('il- list» I .iiI. Sliitlixil l'.ii  ~ii
7:30 a.m. UIl|VCI'SIly Library Book Siilc lX‘_L'lll\‘ in liliniry liil»h_\ Sale l‘Illl\ '\ti~. .‘
3:30 p.m. CD&P: Lecture by Stiiitrt I\llllCl’ ‘K2, I-‘int Iioslon (‘orii Riioni Ell t‘i»iiiiiici.i- _\ liiu l

6p.m. VOLLEYBALL: GL‘lIcI’lIl\ vs, I7.nior_\ :inil llt*nr_x \\';iriii': ('i'i.tci

   

 

 
   

 
 
   
 

 

8:30 p.m. TELECONFERE\'(‘E' FiiIiiIIiIticIit;ill_\ Sixxtliiiig (‘.itl'.iilii \ ii .\\ iiii lliiiiiiiis \\ Ill. Ii’ iii L
First, the Bible or IIIC ('liiirtli.‘” Niirtlicii i\iiil.tiiiiiiiii_ Illll\t‘l~ll'. I iiii:i_ !‘iilil . iii-.i ..l ‘
ERl 
' Parents‘ Weekend at W29 L. '-
4:30~ 5:30 pm. BOOK—SlCiNlN(i PART Lriiniir Cctil. Hllliiilm/I Pm. it l"t(ll ii:.iii mi °\~'i / 
Boatwriglit Room, Iiiiixtrsity l.it>riiry Pulilit l|l\IIL'il 1,‘

5p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Aitiy r\\I\\'ll{C! “)1 tiiiil Erit Nliilx ‘ll I\’i»n:ii -llll llim: l:.ill

6p.m. VOLLEYBALL: Generals \‘.\.SLlIIll\Cl"l1SClI1lllllf)' Wtiiniir (‘ciitcr

8 p.m. PLAY: The Body Sllll/7,I‘nU§lt'LllC()I11CAI) lI1l\Hli'|tl\lV\ 'liiiii/itgulsi i iiii . ».i.\ 'll ‘I

For rcxervauonscall tl\c;itrei)ll"itei4(iH<(i1I ‘/1

8p.m. CONCERT: W&L Vocal Enxcinhlt-s and Wind Iillxﬂlllllii‘ l (‘li.iii.1 l‘ii.il:. iiii llkkl

9:30 - I1 p.m. RECEPTION FOR PART‘ S. I‘ l]ll\ I)lIllIl_L‘ II:ill

AWAY ATlIl_I€TI(‘ EVI s<>(‘<‘i<t< l‘\I2\\\‘i oi )-\t lillli”ll.‘lll.‘l‘l\ ll‘ wit l(",‘Ni ’

S I! BE 1: QC.[m“.ﬂ ,i

All Day WATER POLO: W&L “Fall ('lII\\i ’ " "I \\UIlll‘l) Pool

11a.m. WOMENS CROSS COIINTRY‘ lC11L'I.ll\ xx. I 1l\lCI'Il Mini‘ ’-l.ii} llgiln ‘ I‘

11:30 am. W&L PRESIDENT ' REI’()RT '1‘) PARl:NI  l.ct‘ ('lt.i(‘t'l

1:30 pm. FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Britlgcwulcr (‘tillt'gt- Wilwii l'ii-lil

3 p.m. PLAY: 'IlIe Baily Shop. UlllVCT\ll_) ‘I litxilrt‘.

AWAY ATI*II.ETI(‘ EVENT. (‘ROSS (‘()I'.'\'IRY {.\Ii: ll.iiii1-lcii Sxiliii ~. i .'.—l. ‘in ‘alsiiiiunii:
S! I D } QKTQHH .,
Daylight Savings Time ends. '
All Day WATER POLO: W&L "Fall Clztxxic ” 'I}\iiiiihli Pool
3& 8 pm. PLAY: lllt‘ limit Slim/I I'Iii\i‘r\'ily, 'Ilit'.itIi‘
I'lXIIIIlI'I‘I().\'S
DUPONT GALLERY: “Paintings, Drawings and I’lL\lCI\ hy Willizitiil Wliitq i')il ll‘ \. x “ ll‘ i .;
hours are9 ant. to 5 pm. Moiidtiy through l'Tl(_Id)‘ -Mliiimiiiii l\ lri'i~
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: “Tltc 'I\tii(it'titlt‘iticii ol lvri iii: .\ Sin‘. ll A i I ‘ ~ gi it:i~ i_»
Library's Print, Non—pnnt, and Rare lltililings" ithroiigli (l\IlllX‘i’l ‘
\
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, Il()A'l‘WRl(;IIT komi: l’llr.’lllClI L‘Ilt‘l\»—l’.ll.lllt‘l i l\t‘~ in.‘ i 'iii;.«.,». t..i~.i..»
ofLee and Jackson" (tlirotigli Jaiiiiziryi. lliiiirs iii: ‘l 1] in. iii ‘i ii iii hltllliliix tliriiiigl I ;
LEWIS HALL, CIIARLES VAILI. L.-\I'(.‘IIl.IN I-'.-\('I'l.'I \' tot \‘(;I~Z: Iitllllill . i \ ‘i.i~.: ;  i... l'i
Canvas and Paper by George Sinipsriii" itliroiigli (iii. 71 i Ii,

Fraternity   

 

I

l

Violzitioii oil out \l;lllLl‘tll'tl\ lt‘.'ltl\ to \\\ ill lllltl
certain \‘illlL‘ll0ll\I l‘1lllgllIfJ ltoiii tlii'ci'ti\i‘\ lit
prohzitioii to xllxpcllxltill lo L‘\llIll\ltlll c\t-ii to ,~
t‘c\‘oc;itioii olcliiitlci lllltl tll\\tllIlllt\ll ill i'li;i(ii(~.;
Wcirc \L‘l'l0Il\ giliotil .ilt‘oliii| .'ll1Il\t‘ ‘tllltl \\i‘ lllllllx
_\oti ought to l\llll\\ it. ~,

ll‘ _\'oti think _\oti h;i\c to get tliiiiil. to li,_.\ti t;,~ii
tloiiil \\.'i\lc _\iitii‘ time on li.'iIci’iiilit‘\. lilll il l
_\oti'i'c intcrcsicil in liiiiliiig out how Il1L'ICIltltI\
0l‘l(tlll0l’l’ti\\ ciiii c\pci‘iciict' the («it til‘ iii-..iii(-(-
rcltilioiisliipx \\IIl1I-L'\I1L)kiIl>\lI llltIl\ iiltiiil tliuiiiix
thcii \\i‘itc to II\ III the l'l';lIL‘l’llll_\ lC\ct‘tili\c\\ I
/\\\0Cl‘tIll(ll1.Alllll \\ , Will} 51. Stlllt‘ .W(l, liiili;(-i
‘ilptillx. IN ~l(i3(i.\’.

TlII’()ll_g'lI /l7('_/Iilirliiig._fI‘rIrz’I‘/ii'Iic.\ u/'(' tl('lli\‘(‘lV\'
l/l\'r)ll‘(‘tl in (’(l!(('(lll(l/l /ii‘/it'I'tIIi1.i tll7(lll/ (Il('(llIUl

Wctc iii the l\U\lIlC\\\lllklk'\L‘ll1I1lIlC lt"iltlt‘I\ 1
with Iiitcgtit): lii’ii1lici‘liooil |\1lll L‘\\L'llllLll iii::i'f.
(llL‘llI.

l“I‘uIr’I‘III'Iir’.\ arr’ tiwi‘/ti’/lg In (I('lll(’\'(’ ('r)Hl[?l(’l(’

(’llI)llIl(lll(’II (I/i(1lt'()llI)ll(' l7<'i'r'I‘<I,qr'.v /mitt all

l'(’i'l‘llllHl(’Ill (l('ll\‘lll(‘.\.

l"i'u/r'I'iIiII't'.\ um’ li'utlr*i‘.s Iiiiiriilg ivillzjgir’ gtiviii/i.\

[ll‘(II}lUllIlf,' perv‘ I/iIw‘i'¢'ii/iriii .\II‘tI/t'j,'i¢’.x_/iii"
.\lH(l(’/lI.\ ll‘llll .\_\‘l)l/)l(WI.\ rift/li'ri/ml tllltl ilriig

(I(l(ll(‘lI'()lI.

0

Mimlliil ri/'IlIr{;"ur'/ Iliul l¢'.s:\' Iliuii riiIc',fiiI4i'I/I ri/’

IrIIzlr'IjqI'rIrlIIuI¢'.\' (‘till l(‘,L‘llll_\‘ ('0/I.vImIr' (ll('()/l(}l.
_fl‘(Il(’I’IllIl('.\' /miIIInIr' l'(’.\'/)r)Il.\’ll7l(’ (ll('()ll()l rm’
l>_\' Illr).\'(' Hl('I)Il7(‘I'.\’ lt‘ll() urc riftIgr'. l

_/\tiit:rica’.s:
Hateriiitics

"/)i'\'r‘lii/>i'i1,u /Iilvjg/’I'I_\‘ lll lualr’/'.\lii'/I"

a~..'

 

