 
  

/-lrch.

.1 372. 7552

R552.
1/. 2’?
170- /3
C. 2.

VOLUME 89, NO. 13

 zcvavtrassiv "_'gt'b-:xD'-
$44? av-a~‘a.? '1 N y, 2;; ".g‘§.v‘y1,Au-..1.‘

="_V*.*<*.-'“.-‘,0-°~4_, VA aunt

    

2 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

I

uuvwibv «

Pretrial
set for
Comer

By Gregory Euston
Editor

Charles B. “Blake" Comer will
appear before Judge Joseph Hess at
a preliminary hearing in Lexington
General District Court on Jan. 30.

Based on evidence presented at
the hearing, the Rockbridge County
grand jury will consider indictments
against Comer for hit-and—run and
involuntary manslaughter charges.

Comer, 21, was arrested last Nov.
31 and charged with the March 16
hit-and-run manslaughter of Washing-
ton and Lee freshman Mary Ashley
Scarborough.

A senior history major, Comer
withdrew from W&L the Sunday
following his Thursday arrest.

Lexington Police were led to
Comer by an anonymous informant
who is a recent W&L graduate.

The informant told police that
Comer was responsible for the acci-
dent and that the car could be found
at the Comer home in Greenville,

S.C.
Comer told police he was driving

the car the night of the accident.
Comer said he did not stop because
he was “scared to death and didn’t
know what to do.”

According to Lexington ‘Police
Chief Bruce M. Beard police continue
to investigate the possibility of ac-
complices.

Since December, the informant
has not called back with any more
tips or shown any interest in the

of Scarborough.

Fraternity

Let it snow! Let it snow! Let it snow!

LEXlNGTON,V|RG|NlA

PiKA nationals

JANUARY 11, 1990

cleans house

32 dropped from W&L chapter

By Joel Smith
Staff Reporter

Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity’s national Su-
preme Council suspended the operations of its
chapter at Washington and Lee and has taken
action to re-establish the chapter as a result of
violations of the fratemity’s membership stan-
dards, said a statement released Tuesday by
Professor Roger Dean, the chapter’s advisor.

As a result of the action, 32 members were
not invited back to re-establish the chapter.

The supreme council suspended PiKA’s
operations on November 27 and launched an
investigation into possible violations of the
national fratemity’s “Standards for Retention of
Membership, Officer Status and Chapter Charter
in Good Standing,” which includes regulations
regarding alcohol and drugs, hazing, sexual
abuse and education.

Each undergraduate member of the chapter
was placed on “early alumni status,” which is
similar to a chapter membership suspension.
The fratemity’s national staff then conducted a
formal assessment of the chapter’s 62 indi-
vidual members. Each willing member was
interviewed by two different PiKA staff mem-
bers.

Following the interviews, the Supreme
Council invited thirty members to resume under-
graduate status and “to assist in rebuilding the
chapter," the statement said. PiKA’s other 32
members will remain on early alumni status,
which prohibits their presence on PiKA property

About afoot of snow was dumped on Washington and Lee last December. Despite the and P3ﬂi°lPa1i°“ in Chap!“ aCiiVili¢S for {W0
$10,000 reward posted by the parents fact that students were preparing for finals, snowmen showed up around campus and snowballs years.

grades

onthe upswing  

 

By Chuck Broil
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee's fraternities
are improving on their grades and
expanding on their social service
projects, the W&L Interfraternity
Council was told Tuesday night.

The all-fraternity grade-point
average for fall term was 2.729, up
from last winter term’s 2.714,
according to the Registrar’s Office.
The non-fraternity average dipped
from last winter’s mark of 2.884 to
2.763, and the all-male category
declined from 2.478 to 2.736 since
last winter term.

“I was very pleased that the all-
male and the all— fraternity averages
were so close," IFC President Kevin
Nash said. “We’re striving to boost
all the fraternity-average above the
all-males.”

Also up from last term is the
lowest fratemity’s average. Beta
Theta Pi’s fall term average of 2.606
beats the lowest average from last
winter’s grades, a 2.581 from Sigma
Phi Epsilon.

Nash also released a list of social
service projects taken on by
fraternities over the past term. The
incomplete list includes painting the
Rockbridge Area Recreational
Organization building by members of

flew through the air with the greatest of ease. Photo by Chris Leiphart.

The thirty now—active members were invited

back because they “showed a commitment to
break cleanly with past philosophies and nega-
tive traditions so that the W&L chapter can start
with a clean foundation,” the statement said.

“No one individual has been accused of
any wrongdoing,” said Dean. “This has been a
very painful process for all involved. But I sup-
port the supreme council’s stance regarding zero
tolerance for drug abuse, hazing, vandalism and
ungentlemanly behavior. It is a fact of life that
the behavior of a few irresponsible men can
place the whole fraternity in jeopardy,” Dean
said.

Although none of the 32 members placed
on early alumni status were accused of any
specific wrongdoing, “the staff believed that
those members could not, or were not, willing
to contribute to the degree necessary to effect a
positive environment and a better way of life at
the chapter,” the statement said.

In a letter to the members of the chapter,
Raymond L. Orians, the fratemity’s national
executive vice president, said “we experienced
a general lack of commitment from a majority
of the members to hold each other accountable
and especially to aspire to those principles and
values of our fratemity.”'

The Supreme Council also appointed new
officers for the re-established chapter. John
Thorsen was named president, Richard Perry,
vice president; Darren Braccia, secretary; and
Michael Danzansky, treasurer. The four new
officers, along with Dean, attended the fratemit-
y’s armual President's Conference in Memphis
last week.

Scott Russell, the chapter’s national consul-
tant, will be in Lexington until Friday to over-
see the chapter’s re-organization.

Burglars strike

Beta Theta Pi, Phi Kappa Sigma and
Sigma Alpha Epsilon; visits to the
Mayflower Nursing Home by Sigma
Alpha Epsilon and Delta Tau Delta
members.

EC votes for activities fee

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

The Executive Committee ap-
proved a $15 increase in the student
activities fee Monday in an effort to
prepare a proposal for the upcoming
Board of Trustees’ meeting.

According to EC President Wil-
lard Dumas, last year’s grant of about
$16,000 from President John Wilson's
contingency fund came on the condi-
tion that the EC consider a student
activities fee increase. However, the
EC reports rising costs and an in-
creased demand for funding of stu-
dent organizations as the primary

motivations for the change.

“The student body needs this
money,” said Dumas, who added that
he has “no fond memories” of this
year’s budget allocation hearings.
“It’s an attempt to deal with the
cosH>f-living increase and inﬂation.”

The $15 increase would raise next
year’s student activities fee from
$105 to $120 - $25 of which has
gone and will go to the mortgage on
the pavilion, according to EC Vice-
President Jon Sheinberg. The motion
passed with three dissenting votes:
Freshman EC Rep. Sean Gatewood
and Junior EC Reps. John Fialcowitz
and Thompson Hatcher.

The EC must pass the motion

again next week before it is referred
to the Board of Trustees for approval.

Gatewood expressed concern that
the increase would generate a surplus
in EC funds, but Dumas said that
would not necessarily occur consider-
ing the demand by student organiza-
tions for funding.

“There is no desire by myself or
members of the committee to create
a surplus,” said Dumas.

Dumas said that student organiza-
tions are still waiting to hear from
the EC on $3,500 in funding re-
quests, including more than $1,500
for the Political Review and more
than $1,200 for the Calyx. Requests
have increased 10 to 20 percent, but

Also, Sigma Nu and Phi Delta
Theta have become involved in
Project Threshold and Adopt-a-

Cl Please see IFC page 3

increase

allocation has remained about the
same, said Dumas. The Student Ac-
tivities Board, for example, received
$6,000 less than last year, according
to Dumas, “however, they're still
having to book bands at 1989-90
prices."

Fialcowitz and Hatchet favored a
more moderate increase, perhaps of
$10.

Dean of Students Lewis John
expressed support for the increase in
the fee, noting that it has been two
years since the last increase. John
added that the Board of Trustees has
not discussed “specific dollar
amounts.”

D Please see EC page 3

W&L, MSA celebrate King’s ‘dream’

By Pat Lopes
Staff Reporter

And when we allow freedom to ring, when we
let it ring from every village and hamlet, from every
state and city, we will be able to speed up that day
when all of God's children-black men and white
men, Jews and Gentiles, Catholics and Protestants-
will be able to join hands and to sing in the words
of the old Negro spiritual, ‘Free at last, free at
last; thank God Almighty, we are free at last.’

More than 20 years after the Rev. Martin
Luther King Jr. described his dream for America,
the third Monday in January was proclaimed
Martin Luther King Jr. Day, in memory of the man
who led the civil rights movement for blacks
during the 1950s and 1960s.

Here at Washington and Lee, the Minority
Students Association is celebrating King’s birthday
with a number of events, all of them open to the
public.

“We’re trying to extend the celebration this
year,” said MSA President James Rambeau. This
is the fifth year the MSA has coordinated events in
memory of King. According to Rambeau, atten
dance at the events has increased steadily.

$1....-. >->.‘v— 4..-.2. . .

King remembered

Washington and Lee organizations are
sponsoring the following events as part of
Martin Luther King Jr. Day:

Monday — “Reflections of the Dream"
at 8 p.m. in Lexington's First Baptist
Church, Main and Henry streets.

Wednesday - Memorial Service and
Lecture: “Non-violent Social Change" by
Prof. Jarvis Hall.

Jan. 23 — Lecture on the significance of
King in Virginia politics by Roanoke Mayor
Noel C. Taylor.

“More white folks are recognizing the inﬂuence
of Martin Luther King and his signiﬁcance to
American society,” Rambeau said. “Attendance
has been great.”

In the last few years, Rambeau said the crowd
has been an even mixture of blacks and whites.
Rambeau attributed the increasing attendance of
white students and local residents to the increasing
integration of blacks into extracurricular and town

activities.

This year’s events begin Monday, which is
Martin Luther King Jr. Day. At 8 p.rn., W&L
undergraduates, law students and cadets from the
Virginia Military Academy will speak on “What
‘The Dream’ Means to Me” at the First Baptist
Church. The church is at 103 North Main St., at
the comer of Main and Henry streets.

W&L’s first Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial
Lecture will be delivered by Visiting Professor of
Politics Jarvis Hall at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, Jan.
17 at Lee Chapel. The lecture is jointly sponsored
by the MSA and the Lexington Area Ministerial
Association. They hope to make the lecture an
annual event.

Following the lecture, there will be a reception
at the Morris House.

Roanoke Mayor Noel C. Taylor will wrap-up
the events on Tuesday. He will be talking about
King’s signiﬁcance to Virginia politics at 4:30 p.m.
in the University Library’s Northen Auditorium.

Monday’s classes will run on schedule here at
W&L, although that day is a federal holiday. The
post office will be closed, and there will be no
mail delivery. Although some states have also

Virginia government offices will be open.

at least 10 houses

Women Pi Kappa Alpha 2.796
Chi Omega 3.176 Kappa Alpha 2.796
ALL SORORI-ry 3953 Sigma Alpha Epsilon 2.772
ALL FEMALES 3_o33 NON-FRATERNITY 2.763
NON-SORORITY 3.020 Sigma NU 2.760
K a Ka a Gamma 3.018 ALL MALES 2-736
xii; Aupiti Theta 2.966 ALL FRATEBNITY 2.729 By Genienne Mongno
Pi Kappa Phi 2,706 Associate Editor

M Chi Psi 2.700

en Pl“ Gamma D9_lla 2-679 More Washington and Lee stu-
Slgma Chl 2.910 S'9_"la Pl“ EP5'l°” 2-652 dent houses were broken into than
Kappa Sigma 2.843 Ph! Kappa S'9ma 2-633 usual during the Christmas vacation,
ALL STUDENTS 2.833 Phi Della Th9la 2-630 said Rockbridge County Sheriff Fred
Lamba Chi Alpha 2.815 Phi Kappa Pal 2-623 M. Spence.
Delta Tau Della 2.810 Bela Thela Pl 2-606 According to Spence, he is aware

of at least 10 and maybe up to 12
burglaries of county houses leased
and lived in by W&L students. This
number is higher than it has been in
two years, Spence said.

Spence said he believes the bur-

lam Dunk

glaries are connected and were done
by professionals. They took mostly
jewelry and money, he said.

“They know what they’re doing
and they're continually doing it,”
Spence said. “They got students
because they knew they were home
for the holidays.”

Because of the professional nature
of the burglaries, Spence said there
is very little the students could have
done to prevent them aside from
installing alarm systems or participat-
ing in a neighborhood watch.

D Please see BREAK-IN page 3

Courtney Penn puts two more points on the board as Washington and
chosen to proclaim the day a state holiday, here in Lee beats Clarkson in the first round of the W&UBank of Rockbridge
Invitational Tournament. See story page 6. Photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

 

 

  

OPINION
THE Game

Tonight at 7:30, the Washington and Lee basketball
team will play what coach Verne Canﬁeld, like most
coaches, would probably call just another conference
game. “All our games are big,” he might say. “We just
take ‘em one at a time.”

Well, maybe Canﬁeld and his players do see it that
way, but W&L fans certainly don’t. For whatever reason,
the Generals’ annual home contest against Roanoke
College has become, as far as most students are
concerned, THE game of the season.

Attendance tonight is likely to be a season-high for the

 

halftime illustrates, but you wouldn’t think so from what
will go on tonight. We expect that, as usual, things will
get a little out of hand, as W&L students transform the
Warner Center into their own version of Duke’s infamous
Cameron Indoor Stadium. For freshmen in particular,
tonight’s game will be an experience, to say the least.

Though we don’t have any inside information, it seems
a safe bet that the “Unknown Fans” — Canﬁeld once
called them “the guys with the bags” — will be on hand,
as well as enough more typically-dressed W&L students
to nearly ﬁll the east stands at the Warner Center.

The show on the court should also be particularly
entertaining. W&L has lost ‘only one home game in its
last two seasons, and this year’s Generals boast a 7-3
record, including three wins in four games since
Christmas. The Maroons are on a three-game winnning
streak and have had a week to prepare and to think about
their three losses in three games against the Generals in
1989.

An alumnus once observed of W&L, “youth is the
keynote of the place, and though professors may protest
and chaperones may carp, youth continues to have its
ﬂing here.” That description should be particularly apt
tonight. We could complain that things shouldn’t go too
far, that we should be conscious of our self—imposed
guidelines with regard to behaving like gentlemen. But
all of that goes without saying. It seems more appropriate

_ that we ask students to preserve the enthusiasm they show
tonight for future athletic contests — basketball and
otherwise. Win or lose tonight, W&L students should
make a new year’s resolution to support their school's
athletic teams. We all know the academic demands of a
W&L education; but, as any General will tell you, the
demands of college athletic competition here at Washing-
ton and Lee are also rigorous indeed. The Generals, in all
sports, deserve more from the student body than one night
of support a year — and, besides, it beats the hell out of
studying.

Ours andyours

Unsigned editorials that appear in this column are the
work of the Phi’s editorial board, which consists of the
Phi’s editors, associate editors and editorial page editor.
We will occasionally publish editorials that are not sup-
ported by the entire board; those pieces carry the initials
of their authors.

As the editors of a student newspaper, we feel an obli-
gation to publish each and every student-opinion piece we
receive, and we encourage students and other members of
the W&L community to submit letters or “My Views.”
However, we reserve the right to edit any and all submis-
sions for reasons of taste, libel, clarity or length.

The Phi is indeed our newspaper, but it is no more
ours than it is yours. The quality and diversity of its
opinion page are dependent on your submissions.

Quote of the week

I just don't ﬁnd people masturbating very artistic at
all. — Phi Entertainment Editor Pamella Kelly, on the
movie “sex, lies and videotape.”

Generals. W&L students are hardly known as avid fans, l
as their annoying habit of leaving football games at’

The Ring-tum Phi, January

11, 1990

By David Parker

EDITOR'S NOTE.‘ W&L History Prof. David
Parker was Blake Comer’s academic advisor. He
wrote Comer this letter on Dec. 1.

Dear Blake,

No one knows how you feel at this moment, or
how you have felt over the past eight or so
months. Life is so much more complicated than
any of us ever anticipate.

Last week the Washington and Lee community
was united in the desire to see the person
responsible for the death of Ashley Scarborough
. found and punished When rumor had it that three
lower class outsiders might have hit her as they
ﬂed the scene of an armed assault, I suspect our
vindictiveness ﬂowed unchecked. There was no
fate too awful to be wished on the likes of people
like that.

Today, the W&L community is divided between
those who know you and those who don’t. Those
who do not know you continue to feel as they did
last week. They think of you at the moment your
car hit Ashley, and they imagine a heart turned
cold with the instinct of self-preservation. They
construe your driving away from the battered
woman as evidence of beastly indifference. 7They
think of the ensuing months of silence as a time of
incomprehensible and unforgivable poise rooted in
heartlessness. They see your willingness to saddle

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   
 
   

Blake Comer’s advisor:

‘We are still your friends’ 

your friends with either active or passive
conspiracy as proof of ruthless self-centeredness.
They can no more identify with you than they can
abandon their belief in the sanctity of human life.
For them, to have sympathy for you is to scorn
those you have harmed.

But those of us who know and care for you are
stumbling toward a new understanding of our own
judgments and values. We, too, think of you at the
moment of impact, and imagine an explosion of
panic and horror going off in your head We
imagine a blinding panic followed by a studied
effort to lessen the impact of the situation which
you could not change. We think of the ensuing
months as a living hell — a time without family,
friends or even a self you could trust. We imagine
your arrest as a great, ﬁnal sigh of relief. Without
knowing the truth, we are impelled toward the
most charitable explanations we can imagine. We
twist and we turn, trying to bring into one person
the man we are so familiar and the actions we
thought were foreign to you and us. We look at
you and we also see ourselves.

Last week. we were all united, confident of our
strength and virtue. Now, we are divided and your
friends are shaken. But his is not all bad. It was
easy to presume we were better than the unknown
guilty. party. It’ is harder to presume ourselves
better than you. We are less certain of our
incapacity to leave others to their fates. We are
less vindictive than we might otherwise have been.

Dreaming in black and white

Since we cannot bring ourselves to condenm you
with ease, we move toward forgiving others. And
since we cannot love you less, we make room to
love others more. We are less convinced of our
own strengths and more sensitive to the frailty of
others. Some of us are trying to care and forgive
at the same time when, but for you, we woul
have loathed. c

If life seems burdensome to you right now, if
death seems like a welcome relief, than you ar
indeed like the rest of us. You have no reason to
go on alone. You may think your prospects for a
fruitful life have ended — you probably thoughf
that at the moment of the accident. But in truth;
you have received a terrible gift you can choose to
use for others, just as you have tried to live’
generously during the past twenty years: you know,
better than most what it means to need and (I
hope) experience forgiveness. You now, I would’
think, have a clearer sense of what is important '
life. You can be a far better friend and counselor
than you have ever been, simply because you now
know life's tragedies in a way almost none of us
can comprehend.

You may think it is unfair to have been tested
beyond your endurance, but the test is not ye
over. Pay what is required of you to the best 0
your» ability and return to those who know you, for
we are still your friends — we are more than eve
your friends. More than ever, we need your help to
understand. ~

    
   
     
  
   
  
 
    
 

  

MY VIEW
By James Lake

I have a dream.

It is a dream deeply rooted in the
American dream that one day this
nation will rise up and live out the
true meaning of its creed — we hold
these truths to be self-evident, that all
men are created equal.

I have a dream that one day there
will no longer be a National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored
People, nor one for White People,
nor one for Any People.

I have a dream that one day job
applications will no longer include
questions of race and gender. I have
a dream that one day employers will
not be forced to choose between
considering race and defending them-

selves in court.

I have a dream that one day race
will be irrelevant, that this nation will
someday live up to its creed - em-
ployment without regard to race,
color, creed, religion or national
origin.

I dream of a day when affirmative
action and bigotry will be recognized
as synonyms, when employers will
realize that there never can be an
“equal opportunity/affirmative action
employer,” when blacks and whites
will together understand that race is
either relevant or irrelevant.

I have a dream my four little
children will one day live in a nation
where they will not be judged by the
color of their skin but by the content
of their character.

I have a dream that schools will
someday ignore race in recruiting and
admissions, that there will someday

no longer be Minority Student Asso-
ciations, that percentages and quotas
and pre-orientations will one day be
things of the past.

I have a dream that students will
one day go to the schools of their
own choosing, that judges will not
make buses and quotas the means for
doing what parents and children
should do themselves.

I have a dream that one day race
will be irrelevant, that this nation will
someday live up to its creed — ad-
mission without regard to race, color,
creed, religion or national origin.

I dream of a day when a police
officer of one race may arrest a man
of another without fear of a lawsuit,
when all people will be concerned
about the crime itself and not the
color of the suspect.

I dream of a day when it will no
longer be news when a black man

   
    
    
   
  
    
    
  
  

does something because he is blac
when a woman will no longer b
lauded for an accomplishment simpl
because she is a woman. I have .
dream.

I have a dream that organizatio v
will someday ignore race when elect-
ing new members, and that others
will not pounce on groups that hap
pen to lack “sufficient minority rep-
resentation.” I dream of a day when
people need not resign from groups
just because others do not approve of
that group’s composition. I have a
dream.

I dream of a day when social
groups will not boast of “diversity"
as if one individual is more desire-
able than another because of the color
of his skin. I have a dream. .

If America is to be a great na-
tion, this must become true. '

I have a dream.

    
      
   
 
 
 

E112 King-tum lﬂlti

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, .1897

Editor: Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison
Associate Editors ................................... ...Jarnes Lake, Genierme Mongno
Assignment Editor \ Pal L0P6S
Editorial Page Editor ...................................................... ..Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor Pamela Kelley
Sports Editor Jay Plotkin
senior Copy Editor Alesha Priebe
Editorial Cartoonist Jeff Woodland

Business Manager Anne Dysarl
Advertising Manager   ...Iason Kelley
Circulation Manager .................................... ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi ofﬁce,
Room 208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in
that week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

Panama: America’s next Vietnam?

MY VIEW
By Brian Adams

On Friday, Dec. 15, 1989, Manuel Noriega de-
clared war on the United States. The next day, an
American soldier was shot dead in Panama. In the
subsequent 72 hours, the 13,000 U.S. servicemen
already there were reinforced by an additional
7,000 troops, and a full-scale invasion was
launched. It is impossible the Panamanians did not
know we were coming, and they fought back —
successfully defending the life of their bandit
leader. Has America been duped into another
Vietnam? Will December 1989 be known as the
Panamanian Christmas like July 1968 is intema-
tionally recognized as Prague Spring?

At 9:15 a.m. Wednesday Dec. 20, 1989, seven
hours after the assault was initialized, General
Colin Powell was broadcast live over all major
U.S. television networks saying, “This operation is
almost a complete success. There are a few minor
pockets of resistance remaining. Noriega is now a
fugitive and is being treated like one. We expect
this operation to be concluded in a few hours." In
the subsequent 96 hours, an additional 6,000 troops
arrived in Panama, and the fighting continued. A
U.S. serviceman filmed on ABC News was quoted,
“The Panamanians are all friendly,” as several
GI’s around him scanned the perimeter of their
bunker, prepared to return sniper ﬁre. Included in
the same story was an estimated resistance strength
of 2,000 men and a surmisement that in order to
free some cities they will be swept, “...block by
block...” to eliminate the enemy. Apparently, a full

 

Will December 1989 be
known as the Panamanian
Christmas like July 1968 is
internationally recognized as
Prague Spring?

guerilla war against the United States could erupt
in Latin America with the Panama Canal’s vital sea
lane and many lives at stake. How long will this
threat continue? How many people will die? What
was General Powell's mistake in assuming the
largest U.S. military operation since 1974 would be
so tidy?

In June 1981, Argentina invaded the Falkland
Islands claiming dominion over Britain by rights of
a centuries-old treaty. Costa Mendez made, how-
ever, a serious miscalculation. He believed Wash-
ington would find in the conﬂict of laws between
the NATO Alliance and the Monroe Doctrine that
the latter rules. U.S. Air Force cargo planes,
however, refueled British ﬁghters over the south
Atlantic, and France cancelled all deliveries of their
deadly exocet missiles to Buenos Aries. Gurka
mercenary British troops then overwhelmed the
Argentine regulars, and the war ended with a few
battle ships lost on both sides.

If, “The Panamanians are all friendly,” then
who are the 2,000 men of the resistance? Noriega,
a former U.S. ally, is known to be a thief in the
midst of honor. Is there honor among thieves? Has
President Bush underestimated the strong man's
most dependable ally, the Columbian cocaine car-
tels. their $250 billion war chest. and their in-

ﬂuence throughout the Caribbean? It is possible
the resistance consists of Salvadorans, Sandanistas,
Cubans and Columbian—bom, Israeli—trained inter- ‘
national terrorists. If this is the case, then the,
resistance can certainly ﬁeld more than 2,000
troops. '
If the combined forces of Noriega, Ortega,
Castro, and Columbian cartels can install a new

resistance leader in Panama, or if one rises through V‘

the ranks already there, then this war may last not
only into next year, but into next century. If the “
United States begins bombing, then the psycho— p
logical war for the minds of Mayan villagers will
be lost. They value their banana groves and sugar '
cane as the Vietnamese value their rice paddies. t
A well-organized anti-American guerilla militia
exists in Latin America, whose real strength 1
exceeds 100,000 enemy troops. Some have been
battle-hardened in Angola, others are combat~ I
proven in their own neighborhoods. If the ﬁghting 5
escalates again, and we are to avoid another
prolonged and lethal catastrophe similar to the one '
we suffered 15 years ago, then we have at least
one choice. Our naval, marine, and surveillance .
capacity is adequate to assure the continued func-
tioning of the canal. In a matter of weeks we can
effectively blockade all regions containing potential
allies of the resistance. If we do this and wait long
enough, then the anti-American elements may
starve, and we may find our Caribbean dilemma
has other alternatives (like legalizing drugs). If our
current policy leads to jungle warfare, then we may
find “peace with honor" and 50,000 dead GI’s.
Brian Adams is a 1985 W&L graduate living in

Lexington and working for Global Finance Mag-_
a7,inc.

 

   
 

 

 
  
 

EWS

 

By Alisann McGloln
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee Panliel-
lenic Association discussed short-
terrn and long-term sorority housing
options at a meeting Tuesday.

“We're not unmindful of the need
for the sororities to have a place to
meet," said Associate Dean of Stu-

‘ dents Leroy Atkins.

Atkins said that the university is
willing to help the sororities achieve
the type of environment they would
like, but that housing for all four
sororities, including Delta Gamma,
which will begin colonization Jan. 24,
will take time, and they should con-

Powell to

From the W&L News Office

The Honorable Lewis F. Powell,
Jr, former justice of the United States
Supreme Court, has announced his
intention to leave his personal and
professional papers to Washington
and Lee University, his alrna mater.
The collection spans Powell's career
on the Supreme Court and his tenures
as chairman of the Richmond School
Board and president of the American
Bar Association.

The collection will be housed in
a new addition to Lewis Hall, the
W&L School of Law which is named
for Frances and Sydney Lewis of
Richmond. Construction on the addi-
tion will begin in the spring of 1990
and will be completed in approxi-
mately 18 months.

“The papers of most justices of
the Supreme Court have been left to

‘Housing questions

centrate on short-term facilities.

Assistant Dean of Students Ken-
neth P. Ruscio proposed for the inter-
im that each chapter be designated
one of the five-person loft suites in
Gaines Hall and, depending upon the
demand, would also have the ﬂoor
beneath reserved for Parihelleriic.

The dorm area would come under
either Par1lielleriic’s rules or the re-
spective sorority’s house rules, which
were also presented Tuesday.

The rules for each of the three sor-
orities are basically the same - al-
cohol is prohibited on the premises
and males are restricted from private
rooms at all times and from common
areas during designated times.

W&L’s Capital Planning Coor-

The Ring-tum Phi, January 11, 1990

dinator Frank Parsons, who works
closely with architects and engineers
as well as with the City of
Lexington, has been working with
Atkins and Ruscio on various pos-
sibilities for sorority housing..

W&L hopes to take a master plan
for fraternity and sorority expansion
to the Lexington Planning Commis-
sion Jan. 25.

“We will show in a general way
that we anticipate accommodating the
sororities in the Davidson Park area,"
Parsons said. Davidson Park is the
area that includes those fraternities
from Pi Kappa Phi to Kappa Alpha.

Parsons stressed that the univer-
sity will first need to complete the
Fraternity Renaissance program and

give papers to W&L

the Library of Congress,” said Pow-
ell. “My intention to leave my
papers at the law school at Washing-
ton and Lee is based primarily on the
plans, approved by the Board of
Trustees, to add an addition to the
law school building that will house
my papers and provide facilities for
appropriate research. Also, my six
years on the campus were among the
happiest in my life. I have a deep
and abiding affection for the college
that bears the names of George
Washington and Robert E. Lee.”
Randall P. Bezanson, dean of the
law school, said, “Justice Powell's
service on the Supreme Court
spanned a particularly crucial period
in the court’s history, and his inﬂu-
ence was widely felt as a key ﬁgure
during that period. His Supreme
Court papers and his other papers
comprise a rich and unique research
for scholars and students of the Su-

preme Court and of American judicial
and political history. This collection
will attract students and scholars from
other institutions, thereby contributing
immeasurably to the richness of the
university’s academic life.”

Powell, who received both his
undergraduate and law degrees from
W&L, was appointed to the Supreme
Court in 1971 by President Richard
M. Nixon. He served on the Su-
preme Court until his resignation in
1987.

“Justice Powell was at the center
of the national stage at a time of

profound political, societal, and juris- =~ S

prudential upheaval,” Bezanson said.
“By the force of his intellect, his
character and his experience, Justice
Powell exerted a deep and lasting
inﬂuence on this nation and its laws
and institutions.”

Powell served on the university’s
board of trustees from 1961 to 1978.

will then be able to turn its attention
to the sororities.

Parsons presented the three sor-
orities with an option of a “lodge”
in the Troubadour Theater that would
be a meeting place rather than a
residence. He said completion of the
Lenfest Center will “free up the
Troubadour Theater,” he said.

The theater would be used to
“tide the sororities over in the short-
term,” Parsons said. The theater
would be used on the basis of rota-
tion by all three sororities as well as
by certain other university groups.

The chapter consultants also pre-
sented the women with their views on
sorority houses with respect to their
own experiences.

 

Former Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.
gives his judicial papers to law
school; addition to Lewis Hall is
planned

He was awarded an honorary doctor
of laws degree from W&L in 1960.

EC

._ from page 1

Dumas said, “It is my opinion
that the Board of Trustees has a firm
grasp of the ﬁnancial difficulties of

«. the student body” and would support

an increase in the activities fee.

The Board of Trustees will begin
meeting on Feb. 2. John said the
board’s agenda will include financial
matters such as tuition, room and
board and other cost adjustments.

Dumas plans to present any EC
proposal to increase the activities fee
to the Board’s Development Commit-
tee that weekend. A proposal by that
committee would go to a vote of the
full Board, he said.

Dumas denied that the SAB debt
of more than $20,000 last year direct-

ly prompted the proposed increase.
“The SAB made ...[an increase]
inevitable much sooner than was
expected," he said, but the increase
was inevitable nonetheless.

Before closing the issue, Dumas
told the EC members “to talk to the
students you represent” before next
week's vote.

In other EC business, John Harnil-
ton was appointed Fancy Dress audi-
tor before break, ﬁlling the position
vacated by Terance Fowler.

“The Executive Committee has
the utmost faith in Mr. Hamilton,"
said Dumas. “He is in full under-
standing of his duties, and he is
responsible to the Executive Commit-

 

IFC

from page 1

Highway programs; Phi Delta Theta
and Phi Kappa Phi held Christmas
parties for local children; Chi Psi
supported and helped organize the

1 Red Cross Blood Drive on campus;

and Phi Gamma Delta helped
organize and marched in the annual
Lexington Christmas parade.

Phi Kappa Sigma also sponsored
a leadership workshop Tuesday night,
at which Chapter President Brooks
Pettus discussed Phi Kap’s new
leadership, food and pledge programs
for the upcoming year. Pettus and
chapter advisor Jerry Darrell said

their fraternity is the first to have
retirement funds set up to support
current and past fraternity employees.

Also, successful food budgeting
programs were outlined at the
workshop. Last year Phi Kap saved
$31,331 in the first year of the
program, Darrell said. New ideas for
handling pledge programs were also
discussed at the workshop.

Additionally, Nash said the IFC
food drive brought in $900 worth of
food in cans. The IFC also allocated
$200 of its funds to buy more food
for the needy in the Lexington area.

By Merrill Watson

Jen Bandrowski, ‘91, Boston,
Mass. — “They went by really
quickly.”

Randall Ellis, ‘92, Norwich,
N.Y. — “My favorite decade
yet.”

tee first.”

SAB Chairman Charles Conklin
said he was also pleased with the ap-
pointrnent.

The EC this week appointed seven
students to the Constitutional Revis-
ions Committee. They are John Falk,
Robert Tompkins, Thomas Spurgeon,
Cary Baber, William Yorio, Walter
Scott and Gamett Wilboum.

The special election of a senior
EC representative to replace resigned
Jud Parker is set for Jan. 17, and a
run-off on Jan. 19 if needed.

Petitions of at least 150 sgnatures
for “The Big Three" -- EC presi-
dent, vice president and secreta.ry --
are due Feb. 5, followed by an elec-

tion on Feb. 12 and a run-off on Feb.
15.

Elections for undergraduate repre-
sentatives and Student Conduct Com-
mittee will occur on March 12 with
run-offs on March 15. Elections for
law school representatives to the EC
and SCC will be arranged.

The EC also scheduled the follow-
ing budget hearings: the Minority
Student Association and Women’s
Field Hockey Club on Jan. 15; FD
Committee and The Ring-tum Phi on
Jan. 22; Ski Club and Mock Conven-
tion on Jan. 29; The Calyx and Film
Society on Feb. 5; and FD and Live
Drive on Feb. 12.

 

BREAKJN

from page 1

Spence said the sheriff’s depart-
ment will send a crime prevention
officer to any county resident’s home
to give security tips and explain the
logistics of a neighborhood watch.

In addition, Spence said he
would advise students to leave only
necessities in their houses during
breaks and to advise their neighbors
and the sheriff’ s department of their
comings and goings.

Sophomore Denise Brainard said
she and her roommate lost $3,500
worth of jewelry and jars of pennies,

in addition to four pounds of
M&M’s — “for the road, I guess,”
she said.

Brainard said the burglars kicked in
the front door to their house, which
is near the quarry, on Route 7.

The burglars missed $400 in cash,
she said.

Brainard said her landlord had re-
cently irimstalled new locks but will
now add an alarm system.

The investigation into the crimes is
continuing, Spence said.

TALKBACK

. .. 

Mark Melton, ’92, Houston,
Texas. — “I thought they were
actually pretty good for the
United States. Reagan did some
positive things for the U.S. It was
the third decade I've lived in
since I was born in 1969, and I
actually graduated from
hi ghschool. ’ ’

Scott Bahrke, ‘90, Roseland,
NJ. — “It was a good decade.
Reagan was a great President.”

   

Kappa Alpha Theta's chapter
consultant, Anne Katzenbach, came to
W&L from a chapter where there was
a sorority house. She presented her
views on the pros and cons of a
sorority house. She emphasized that
while a house brings the chapter
closer and also gives the sorority a
place to meet, she also said that there
was a great deal of responsibility that
came along with it in the cost and
the upkeep.

Tammy Moss, Chi 0mega’s chap-
ter consultant, came from a colony
similar to those at W&L, where there
was a non-house chapter. She also
said that a house would give the
sororities a convenient meeting place
and would alleviate the current sche-

highlight Panhellenic meeting

duling problems which arise with the
use of the University Center by all
three sororities as well as other uni-
versity organizations.

Following discussion of the hous-
ing situation, Courtney Payne, Panhel-
leriic Rush Chairman, presented the
rush rules for all three sororities with
respect to their own parties as well as
outside parties.

Payne reminded the women that
they had voted last fall on these rules
such as the one prohibiting actives,
pledges and rushees from attending a
social function at a fraternity during
the week of rush. This rule further
prevents any possibility of rusher-
rushee contact outside of the sche-
duled rush parties, Payne said.

Alumnus aboard
NASA’s shuttle

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee graduate G.
David Low, '78, was among the crew
aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia
launched into space Tuesday morning.

The engineering specialist took a
piece of W&L with him. Travelling
with Low is a copy of the "White
Book" outlining the Washington and

.Lee Honor Code as well as the

school’s "Mission Statement" surn-
marizing the history and purpose of
the University.

In addition, Columbia is carrying
novelties such as W&L hats, bumper
stickers, t—shirts, and a copy of the
W&L "Swing." This paraphernalia

will be displayed on campus this
year.

Low, son of the original Apollo
Spacecraft Program Manager George
M. Low, majored in physics and
engineering at W&L. He earned a
second Bachelor's Degree in me-
chanical engineering from Cornell
University and a Master's Degree in
aeronautics and astronautics from
Stanford University. He has been in
shuttle training since 1984.

While at W&L, Low was on the
honor roll and the dean’s list, a
member of the University Council,
and a brother of Phi Kappa Sigma.

In 1988, Low was named an honor-
ary member the of Orriicron Delta
Kappa leadership fraternity.

The 33rd space shuttle mission
commenced Tuesday morning after
three weeks of delay due mostly to
weather.

WHO’S ON

Nationally known political commentator Fred Barnes will speak at
W&L Tuesday, Jan. 16, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel, The lecture is
sponsored by Contact, a program financed and administered by a
committee of students whih represent the W&L student body.

Barnes is senior editor of The New Repblic, one of the nations maos
tinﬂuential magazine of politics and cultural affairs.
now reflects an eclectic viewpoint.

unswervingly liberal magazine,

THE HILL

Once an

Barnes is a conservative voice at The New Republic. He has a regular
column on the presidency, known as “White House Watc ,” and also
writes about politics and the media.

Barnes appears on television as a regular panelist on “The McLaughlin
Group” and is seen frequently on “Crossfire” on CNN. He is known
for his humor and his sharply worded exchanges with other panelists. He
is also a regular moderator on the weekly “Voice of America” show,
“Issues in the News,” and has appeared on “Nightline," “Today,"
“Good Morning America,” “Meet The Press,” “Face the Nation,” “The
MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour,” and the “CBS Morning News.”

A graduate of the University of Virginia, Barnes covered the Supreme
Court and White House for The Washington Star before joining the
Baltimore Sun in 1979. He was the Sun’s national political correspondent
and also wrotre a media column for The Amrican Spectator. He joined
The New Republic in 1985.

Richard P. Keeling, M.D., director of the department of student
health at the Universityof Virginia, will seak at W&L Thursday, Jan.
18, in Lee Chapel at 7:30 p.m.

Keeling, who is is also associate professor of internal medicine at the
school of medicine at the university, will speak on the relation of self-
esteem to the spread of sexually-transmitted diseases and AIDS. His
visit to the campus is sponsored by the Health Education Committee.

A frequent speaker on college campuses, Keeling is one of the nation's
forrneost AIDS spokesmen. He has been involved in AIDS research,
education, and policy issues since the earliest days of the disease’s
identification and has made presentations throughout the country.

A graduate of UVa, Keeling received his M.D. degree from the Tufts
University School of Medicine. He is president of the American College
Health Association and has served as an AIDS consultant to more than
40 public and private colleges and universities across the country. He is
a member of the ad hoc advisory committee on AIDS for the United
States Public Health Service and the executive board of the National

AIDS Network.

 

Photos by Erik Bertelsen

What is your impression of the eighties?

 

Chamle Schildt, ‘9l, Anchorage,
Ky. — “It was less cheesy than
the ‘70s.”

Greg Ossi, ‘90, Jacksonville,
Fla. - “Thank God there wasn't
any disco.”

A
c
:1
“.
‘.
E
9.
".
7.
1.
*4.
.,

-‘-. V/.9.‘-.’-’.v.°.‘> .' '. -‘.— .= .'r .-‘ . I

 

 

 

Managers

The Men’s Lacrosse is seeking
managers for practice, ﬁlming,
and games for the 1990 season. If
interested contact Head Coach Jim
Stagnitta at 463-8678 in Doremus

Gym.
Workshops

The Career Development and
Placement Office is sponsoring a
workshop on interviewing techni-
ques on Monday, Jan. 15 from 3-
4 p.m. in room 109 of the
University Center. All interested
students are invited. Also, a criti-
que of cover letters and resumes
will be held all day Wednesday,
Jan. ?17 on a walk in basis in the
Career Development and Place-
ment Office.

Summer job

The Virginia Govemor’s Fel-
lows Program has positions avail-
able for the summer of 1990.

Assignments include positions
with members of the Govemor’s
Cabinet or personal staff. Applica-
tions are due Feb. 1. Applicants
must be a graduating senior or
enrolled as a degree candidate in
a graduate or professional school.
See Professor Connelly,
Commerce School room 108, for
further details.

I Last chance!

Make up date for under-
classmen photos for the Calyx is
Tuesday, Jan. 15 from 9 a.rn.-12
p.m. the 1-4 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Center.

Politics flick

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce its
next presentation The Dead (USA,
1987), directed by John Huston.
Showings will be tomorrow at 8
p.m. and Saturday, Jan. 13 in
Lewis Hall Classroom "A." There
is no charge for admission. This
film is in English.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 11, 1990

GENERAL NOTES

Internships

Internships are available during
winter and spring term and during
the summer. Assignments include
positions with the White House
Communications Office, the
Presidential Advance Office, and
the White House Ofﬁce of Na-
tional Service. All majors are
eligible. See Professor Connelly,
Commerce School room 108, for
further details. ’

Internships for spring term in
the House of Representatives or
Senate are also available. All
majors are eligible for participa-
tion, but applicants must have
completed Politics 101, 102, 111,
or 330 to be considered for the
program. Participants receive six
credit hours for successful com-
pletion of the course. The
Washington Term Program is
open to seniors, juniors,
sophomores, and freshmen with
preference given to seniors,
juniors, etc. Applications are due
Jan. 26. For further details, please
see Professor Connelly.

Lifeguards

The U.S. Department of Inter-
ior National Park Service has
announced that applications are
being accepted for summer life-
guard positions at several National
Park Service sites in the eastern
U.S. Applicants must meet ap-
plicable Civil Service regulations
and pass all parts of a pre-
employment performance test in
one test session by April 22. For
an application and infomiation
about the test and other require-
ments for these jobs, applicants
should call toll-free 1-800 NP 8
SWIM.

Volunteers

To students facing the tough
decision of what to do after col-
lege graduation, Volunteers in
Service to America (VISTA)
presents a special opportunity —
the opportunity to make a nieaii-
ingful contribution to America's
communities and to solving the

problems they face. VISTA
Volunteers serve full-time for one
year with local, non-profit spon-
soring organizations. For more
information about joining VIST.-\,
contact your ACTION State Pro-
gram Office or call toll-free l-
800424-8867.

Dumbbells

There will be an organiza-
tional meeting of the Barbell Club
on Tuesday, Jan. 16 at 5 p.m. in
the 500 level classroom of
Doremus Gym.

Jeopardy!

JEOPARDYI, America's fa-
vorite quiz show, is now search-
ing for the top 15 college under-
graduates in the nation to compete
in their "$25,000 College Champi-
onship." This two-weck tottma—
ment, which features students
from different colleges and uni-
versities in the U.S., will air May
7-18. The grand prize winner will
receive $25,000 in cash. Those

 4

interested in trying out for the
competition should send a post-
card by Jan.3l to: 1990 Jeopardy!
College Championship, 5842
Sunset Bottlcvard, Los Aiigclcs,
CA 90028. Contestant searches
will take place during the first
three weeks in March.

Outing club

The Outing Club will be going
backpacking and camping in the
nearby Blue Ridge on Jan. 13-14.
For details, including departure
time and equipment needed (avai-
Iable in the equipment room),
contact Jim Clark at 464-4448.

The environmental action
section of the Outing Club will
meet Monday, Jan. 15 at 5:30
p.m. in room 109 of the Univer-
sity Center. The Outing Club
equipment room (Baker 109) will
be open from 2-5 p.m. on Fridays
during the first half of winter
term.

7

J-UZIZV

  
 

1'-=tne1?Ax°teine

‘bnclinonolquuqhol’
ITIAI! 0 SIANDD 0 CJIICKI-N
clung nuns al-u:ut.1'i_|ts
-CAIIVOUTIIIVII

 

I A-‘W01!-I.

I-I-I
S~0ttrHtt‘.u
an

gaﬁ nuns: uuumuvs

      
     
  

  

ganciciciuuuucinnuunuuung
Q E]
Lonely? Need a Date?
Meet that special
someone today!
Call DATETIME
(405) 366-6335
D ﬂ

D
CICIDDDDEICIDDCICIDDDDCIDDEIC

 

  
 

Virginia Beach office.

Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

463-2742

 

 

We Buy Used CD’s

New Hours
Noon until 9 p.m.
Monday through Saturday
11 S. Randolph St., Lexington

F.N. WOLF & CO., INC.
621 Lynnhaven Parkway, Suite 220
Virginia Beach, Virginia 23452
(804) 498-1100

/F.N. WOLF 8; CO., a full service investment firm, head-
quartered on Wall Street, will be on campus February 1 interview-
ing for STOCKBROKER TRAINEES. Sign up at the career office
today! Or call George Hubbard, Regional Vice—President, of the

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

W

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 
  

Ge’s
Hairstylist

.1 36 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett’s

463-3975
We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell

gs

Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

  
    
       
     

$20.
no.

If you're in college, you’re eligible for these great discounts on Twilight
Skiing every Monday, from 12:30 pm to 10pm, and Friday, from 12:30pm
to 11 pm. It doesn’t matter whether you're ftill or part—time. Just show a valid
student ID and hit Massanuttens two new slopes and ride the new

Quad Chairlift.

1OMilesEastOfHam‘sonbuIg,V ' '

911

0'11 Route 33.

Maymtbeusedwithariyotherspecialrateorciscourit.

   

    
   

  
  

 
   
     
     
    

      
      
  

Prescriptions 0 Cosmetics °Perﬁ4mes
Charge Accounts 0 Free Delivery

The

WILLSON-
WA L K E R
HOUSE

Restaurant

L1!“

30 N.-Main St.
Lexington

  
  
  

Ff

 

Résumés

.‘Mount.a.in Copy-graphics

  

  
 
 

OFFICE OF

  
  

o‘o' '-
.. .¢ -=$: _,

Hi-Speed Copying - Desktop Publishing - FAX - Design Graphics
-‘()3-I7I2 ° I25 W. .\’t-lson. Lexington ° FAX 463-()9I8

ADMISSION

Applications are now being accepted for the position of Ad-
missions Counselor for the 1990-91 academic year.

Interested candidates should submit a letter of application
and a resume to the Personnel Office by January 26, 1990.
William M. Hartog

Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid

. -:E§.;3E:;;.;:;:;.5E;:-.;.;.-.;.;.-

    
 
 
   

 

Mr. James Rambeau
President, The
Minority Student Association

 

   

The First Annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Memorial Lecture on Non-Violent Social Change

Wednesday, January 17 - 8:00 P.M.

Lee Chapel
Professor Jarvis Hall, Visiting ABD Fellow
School of Commerce - Department of Politics

Reception to Follow in the Morris House
Public Is Invited

Co—Sponsored by the Minority Student Association
The Lexington Area Ministerial Association

The Rev. Hugh E. Brown III
R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal
Church

Worship Service
Monday, January 15th at 8:00 p.m.
First Baptist Church of Lexington
Four Student Reflections on
“What the Dream Means to Me”

Reception to follow in the church

 

r—————n————————————

I ORDER AN ENTREE AND
GET A SECOND ONE FOR
HALF PRICE (Dinner Only)

*This coupon valid for up to four persons
and only good in January.

463-3020

We’re here until 8!

Birthday Cards.
Friendship Cards.
Miss You Cards.
Laugh Until You Drop Cards.

P ‘S; ét
8: PLEASURES

117 West -Nelson Street/ Lexington

Open daily 10 AM - 8 PM

 

Super-X Drugs 1

At Super-X Your Prescription
Needs Are Our Most Important Business.

College Shopping Square

 

4133-7126

Marlene ’s Hairstylist & Tannery

Get a jump on your tan
for spring break
10 visits to our tanning beds
for $40 or $5 for a single visit

We also invite you to stop by for:
precision haircutting & styling, acrylic nails,
perming, hot waxing... All phases of beauty care

We sell Nexus & Paul Mitchell Products

 

You Can Decorate
Your Own Special
Occasion Cakes

Classes are now forming at
GIFT BASKETS Ltd...
You’ll learn to make
icing flowers
lettering
and
create your own masterpiece
in your own kitchen.

CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION
463-6696

25 N. Main, Lexington & 2131 Magnolia Ave., Buena Vista

  
 
     
     
   
    
    
   

 

 
  

   

   
  
   
   
   
 

  
  
   
 

 

I

   

W & L I I E The Ring-tum Phl, January 11, 1990 5

 

     

               
     
   
     

 

   

        

   
      
    
   
 
        
   

A S ' '

* oror|tIes' a I k k

. . 00 ac

ll

,1 1985

‘ September Women admitted to Washington and Lee University

A

. 1988

' Spring 90 undergraduate women petition Dean Atkins to institute sorority

“ colonization on the W&L campus

. July Letters sent to all undergraduate women regarding the formation of the

Sorority Advisory Committee
' September 28 Sorority Advisory Committee members chosen
o October 24 Forum discussion on sororities held in Lee Chapel
October 26 Sorority Interest Surveys due from undergraduate women

" November 1 Open debate on sororities at W&L held in Lee Chapel

A November 3 Phi announces national sororities will colonize at Washington and Lee

‘ 1989

, January 4-6 National sororities hold presentations

January 8 Sorority Advisory Committee selects Chi Omega, Kappa Alpha Theta and
‘ Kappa Kappa Gamma to colonize
,. January 11 First rush information session held
January 13 Resumes due from all undergraduate women planning to rush
’ January 16 Sorority open houses
. January 23 L Sororities begin interviews 8
January 26 Bid Day; colonies established 9
‘ February 7 First Panhellenic Council Meeting .
. February 28 winter Rush announced ‘:3
March 14 Panhellenic constitution passed a
‘ April 19 Panhellenic denied voice inStudent Affairs Committee votes, except in O°t°b°' 20’ 1988 ‘:2
.. matters concerning sororities E
' April 19-21 Chapters installed ' "
May 16 Rush rules passed; Extension Committee recommends colonizing one ‘ I I .
. additional sorority on campus H VHAT A  E ' I C:/ML
September 10 Greek Orientation for freshman women B:"“|"-ii 993'?‘-5 Jl'°*"- ‘J" “"5 ‘l_ -
' September 12-14 National sorority presentations 1'» "38: 75 h-W"=4 ‘”'~'f‘- Bud‘. 0 LORD. |T‘ Terror S,,,P¢,,,, D,..,,,.,
. September 15 Delta Gamma selected as fourth sorority to colonize at W&L 3°’ 5° "W6" WWW.’ TH£Y V4769 l-‘M2 Sororities! ‘ (
September 19-30 Informal Rush §¢"§Z"..3  7*‘ 5"? “WP 5"“ "5""
1 -- ~ - - . I P5 saw: 4:’ ‘U- 1: _ ,
83:22:38 f.2L°;::.'s:?:p";:*;‘:,::::.$:3"""9  M it-'*°~°°=W-'*w-~«~=i’»v'i‘~=‘*«7~~w L T \
‘ November 12 Formal h ' nt t‘ nf r fr hman me ALWVA ﬂan’ "H 3”“ hm ‘""7”"’dF"""m" Bur
‘ rus one a IO o es wo n »__ _ ,  1.,“ M6m.MRE 4,10.” or the
V e..¢ ﬂue. .11». Girls  ‘ 

. 1990 *:<.‘;’;.'::.-1.*17.;;.¢’ 5°35

' Are war we Mb

, January 9 Panhellenic Association meeting; housing and rush regulations discussed mxeﬁr wmr ﬁne‘ .

~ January 13-20 First formal rush for established sororities SORDRITIES Y 04.5-4

* January 24-27 Colonization rush for Delta Gamma THE HORROR,

. THE: HORROR...

, TIMIIK can 11- way; I

sovouosouo-<J= <5-7 . .. M V . Wt-V A MD t322AM.

4 :_.‘_x_V\.“ - ‘ ' .

' '7/is Beauty Bat E  ﬂ ...... N

‘ 159 5. MAIN sr. § ~33?

_ §

‘ Weatherby® -Remington® LEx,N?:,ﬁ8:,3:G,N,A -._.._________. 3
' Broww ~M°ssber9® V J :usr:u§%i;1'”l5o°.a"l‘3‘i'3tat/an

‘ We will not be undersold . as = °—°-=‘{—

by anyone, _ » - HAlF37Cl,JTT|NG  November 3, 1988 October 27, 1988

« TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS ~

,  BY APPOINTMENT §

' t¢-~0u0=-¢'--0&0!

' 3°°P° M°"'“ 3‘ 3°"? m. 5, Box 379 aoaav aenxsrnes 3

4 sighting with, purchase. Lexington, VA 24450

LEE H!

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

Best prices on Hunting
Equipment & Clothing tool

. [[UNTEI2@SHUNTl2l&§
‘ 18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington 463-1800

 

   

     
  
 
    

703-463-3478 1-800-768-LEHI

   

    
       
   
  
    
   
       
  

   

 

4 CATHOLIC . F|°0llt M
31 .

‘ CAMPUS \»q\x'\“* "’~e

' MINISTRY _

' 167 5. Main St. 463-3106
« Welcome Back To

~ St-Patric“ Welcome Back Students I
‘ We,-,,v,-,,,, a,,S,,,de,,,s, ‘ Stop by and open up a grocery charge account for
« fagrglry andstaff 1990 today. We will be glad to send bills home to
. "W" M '" Mm‘ your parents. Come see us for all your fresh and
, Saturday 5:00 p_m_ custom cut meat needs.

Sunday 8:00 a.m. Have a great year!!
' & 10:30 a.m.
« S ta ,1 the decade 0ffn.ghﬂ Serving the W&L Community for over 35 years.

 

let you
threaten or
torture your

brothers ‘.7

 
      
   
 
     
   

Applications For Dormitory
Counselors and Resident Assistants
Are Being Accepted Until
January 18, 1990

 

Information & Application Forms
Are Available in Dean Ruscio’s
Office, Payne #4.

.. ..,.....-.......—..._......—..........-............i-..  .
6

 

 

1.; 1''»
»_ -..
I <-
,, ..
.~.
7'".
EC».
r*J.
:1.
.“y.
3,,‘
.. 1
{*6
t’!
,'‘’s
y,,, .

 

f].SPORTS

Michaels marked the ’80s
with the calls of the decade

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

I know by now that you all must be sick of reading about the best of
the 1980s, but bear with me for just one more column about the '80s
in sports. I'll try to make it just a little bit different.

The most memorable moments of 1980s were opened and closed by
a sentence and a fragment out of the mouth of the best broadcaster of
the decade.

Between 1980 and 1989, there were several memorable moments,
unbelievable plays, comeback stories and rnind-boggling upsets. In the
Olympics, the United States saw both ends of the spectrum. In 1984, Bob
Knight coached the men’s basketball team, possibly the greatest team of
amateurs ever assembled, to the gold metal in Los Angeles. Four years
later, John Thompson failed to defend‘Knight’s title, losing to the hated
Russians in the semiﬁnal round in Seoul.

The Comebacks: The two greatest comeback stories of the decade
belong to a basketball player and a biker. Steve Kerr, now a guard with
the NBA‘s Cleveland Cavaliers, played college basketball for the
University of Arizona.

His “story is two-fold. After his junior season in 1986, Kerr travelled
to Europe to play for the US in the World University Games.

As Kerr made a move to the basket, his knee snapped, and his
basketball career was doomed. But having the knee reconstructed, Kerr
redshirted the 1986--87 season and rehabilitated his knee. By 1987-88
Kerr was ready to go. His steady play helped Arizona hold down the No.
1 spot in the polls almost all season and a spot in the Final Four.

Along the way, Kerr lead the nation in three-point ﬁeld goal
percentage at nearly 60 percent. Kerr, a point guard, also turned the ball
over less than once a game in 35 starts.

Not only did Kerr have to deal with a reconstructed knee, but also
with the tragic loss of his father. Kerr’s father, a professor at the
American University in Beirut, was assassinated before the season.

During the season, Kerr was given a painful reminder of his father's
death when Arizona traveled to Tempe to play Arizona State. As Kerr
and the Wildcats came out for pregame warrnups, a number of Arizona
State students began classlessly chanting “PLO, PLO.” After being
restrained by teammates, Kerr erupted for 20 first half points on six-of-
six shooting from three-point range.

The second comeback story belongs to world class biker Greg
LeMond. The winner of the world’s most prestigious bike race, the Tour
de France, in 1986. In the beginning of 1987, LeMond was almost fatally
shot in a hunting accident. He was shot in the back and could barely
breath. Two shot-gun pellets were lodged in the lining of his heart.

Today, LeMond still has approximately 30 pellets still in his body,
including the aforementioned two. Almost miraculously, LeMond was
riding again eight weeks after being shot.

Two long years after being shot, LeMond was back in the Tour de
France. His amazing comeback to racing was capped with an even more
amazing, if that can be so, comeback to with the Tour in 1989. On the
final day, which consisted of a 24.5 kilometer time trial, LeMond trailed
the leader Laurent Fignon by 50 seconds, a deﬁcit deemed
insurmountable. The rest is history as LeMond sped to his second win
in his last two Tour de France starts.

The Play: The greatest single play of the decade should be no
surprise. On Thanksgiving weekend in 1984, two of the greatest college
quarterbacks hooked up in what might be the greatest college football
game of all time.

Doug Flutie of Boston College and Bernie Kosar of Miami passed
and passed and passed for three and a half quarters in the Orange Bowl
until Kosar ﬁnally seemed to give Miami a win. Melvin Bratton scored
with about 30 seconds left to give Miami a 42-41 lead.

Not to be outdone, Flutie quickly moved the Eagles to midfield where
he had time for one last play...one last miracle. Flutie called the now-

famous play “Flood”-tip left," sending three receivers down the ﬁeld into I '

the end zone.

As Flutie rolled out, Gerard Phelan broke behind the defense. At his
own 37-yard line, Flutie planted and threw. Somehow, the ball made its
way to Phelan, who made the catch on the ground, in the end zone.
Final score: BC 47, Miami 42.

The Sentence and the Fragment: Al Michaels had the great honor

D Please see EIGHTIES page 7

4

t v.
' 33
"3.
‘I r;
'4
4

.,_. _.,

  
   

1);’,

R.E. Lee Memorial Church

Sunday Services

8:30 - Holy Eucharist - Rite 1

9:20 - Church School

10:30 - Holy Eucharist - Rite II

5:00 - Holy Eucharist — Rite II

6:00 - Undergraduate Group Bible Study

Topic: The Moral Teachings of Paul -
Relationships between Women &
Men, Marriage, and Sexuality

gﬁ.

..mmnmumrmiiti

Autumn Flowers
Wrapped

Half Price A

Cash
and

Saturdays  “‘   I
3-5 p. ‘

 Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson
W

Lexington. Va. 24450
-( 703) 468-9841

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 11, 1990

W&L beaten at BC by one

By Jay Piotkln
Sports Editor

When a basketball team doesn’t
practice or play a game for 30 days,
spectators should expect a little slop-
piness.

Throw in foul trouble, an injury,
and an ejection, and you can figure
out the rest.

That’s how the Washington and
Lee basketball team rang in the new
year. “After four days of good prac-
tices, I was totally dissatisﬁed with
the way we played tonight,” said
W&L head coach Verne Canﬁeld
after his Generals defeated Clarkson
85-63 in the opening round of the
21st armual W&L/Bank of Rock-
bridge Invitational Tournament.

The signs of rustiness were there.
The team shot 38.3 percent from the
ﬁeld and hit just 67.4 percent from
the foul line. The two teams com-
bined for 46 turnovers, 63 fouls and
86 total free throws. Clarkson shot
just 36.4 percent from the ﬁeld.

The Generals started slowly, but
held Clarkson scoreless for the last
6:30 of the first half and first 3:30 of
the second half to take a lead by as
many as 21 points. The Generals
were led in scoring by junior center
Chris Jacobs, who turned in his best
performance of the season to date. He
had 17 ﬁrst half points en route to
his second 30-plus scoring output of
the season ﬁnishing with 32.

Generals

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee wrestling
squad dives into the heart of its sea-
son this weekend when it travels to
Davidson, N.C. for the Davidson Tri-
angular.

After a long Christmas break and
a month long lay—off from competi-
tion, Generals head coach Gary
Franke hopes his injury-free, mentally
rested club is ready for this upcoming
triangular meet.

From now until February break,
the Generals will compete every week
and now is the key point to their
season. Said Franke, “Now is the
time we have the chance to compete
and compete often.”

The lineup is nearly set and
Franke is sending out a very young
squad which includes six freshmen.
Freshman Rich Paini will drop down
to 118, junior co-captain Larry Pilkey
is set at 126, as is freshman Doug
Lamb at 134. Senior co-captain Lee
Garlove is at 142, freshman Cary

WORK FOR YOURSELF

As a campus representative
you'll be responsible for placing
advertising materials on bulletin
boards and working on
marketing progams for clients
such as American Express.
Boston University. Eurail, and
various movie companies,
among others. Pan-time work,
choose your own hours. No
sales. Many of our raps stay with
us long after graduation. It you
are soil-motivated. hard-working,
and a bit of an entrepreneur, call
or write tor more Information to:

mmrcm mssaoa
NETWORK
8211 w. HOWARD smssr
cHicAeo, I. 60646
1 (son) 121-6133 or
(312) 647-6000

OHlCA% - DALLAS -LOG AN&LES
FEW Y%K - SEATTLE

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

 

.. ....._._._.. _—..__4

23 N. Main St. (703) 463-5988

cludiotronics  

V|RG|N|A'S STEREO SPECIAUST

DENON ALPINE
ADCOM BOSTON
8&0 CWD

KEF SONANCE
SIGNET B&K
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

— WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(300) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

Junior point guard Jim Casey
contributed 12, and sophomore Mark
Melton and freshman Bryan Watkins
each had eight.

Junior forward Ed Hart, who had
seven points and six rebounds in the
first half, sustained a stress fracture
in his foot and did not play in the
second half. The Generals also played
the majority of the second half with-
out early—season catalyst Craig Hat-
ﬁeld. The junior power forward was
ejected for ﬁghting just over two
minutes into the second half. Still,
Hatfield was able to lead the team in
rebounds with seven. Junior captain
Mike Holton was saddled with foul
trouble, and fouled out after playing
only 21 minutes.

Where Friday night’s win was
bolstered by the inside play of Ja-
cobs, Saturday, the guards exploded
for a school record 12 three-point
goals. Recent history has it that when
the Generals make five or more bo-
nus shots, they are undefeated, win-
ning 19 in a row coming into the
game.

The shock of losing a three—year
starter in Hart was taken away by the
return of junior swingman Pat Gal-
lavan, who had struggled after getting
two early season starts. Taking Hart’s
spot in the starting ﬁve, the Lake

Forest, Illinois native got W&L off

Junior forward Ed Hart shoots against Randolph-Macon College in a

on the right foot quickly against 5L game on Nov. 30. Hart’s jump. shot will be greatly missed. The three-

set for tourney

Potts will grapple at 150, and fresh-
man Ryland Scott will anchor 158.
Sophomore Peer Soderberg is
locked in at 167, freshman Jamie
Selway is at 177, and freshman John
Conkling will handle the heavyweight
chores. Only freshman Stewart
Green’s status at 190 is uncertain.

Commenting on the long Christ-
mas break, Franke noted that some
wrestlers had the opportunity to work
out more than others, but the vacation
was beneﬁcial to all because every-
one came back without injury and
rested mentally. The break was a
sacriﬁce the team made to return
rested and healthy.

Franke is anxious to see his un-
tested team hit the mats this week-
end. The General mentor noted it
would be “interesting” to see how
the younger team members perform
in a competitive situation.

The last competition the W&L
grapplers were involved in was the
Lebanon Valley Tournament over the
weekend of December 1-2. There,

half of the six participating wrestlers
placed against 16 other high-caliber
Division III teams.

Pilkey recorded 12 takedowns en
route to a 3-3 weekend record and a
sixth place showing. Soderberg took
three decisions while dropping only
two to gain seventh place. Scott
grabbed eighth place while gaining
valuable experience in collegiate
wrestling.

Said Pilkey, “The freshmen made
some young mistakes that will be
corrected with some experience. Our
performance showed a lot of hope for
what will happen later in the year. I
think we should really come on about
the time of the State meet._"

The coach also stressed the need
for his youngsters to continually
progress and improve, noting that the
Lebanon Valley tournament against
stronger Division III squads helped.
The other Washington and Lee grap-
plers that competed were John

Conkling, Cary Potts. and Jamie
Selway.

year starter was lost for three weeks with a stress fracture in his foot on
D please see DEFENSE page 7 Jan. 5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

Craig Irons...

One half of the Texan Connection
continued to keep the honors com-
ing. Irons and teammates Phillip
Sampson, Mike Pack and Bob
Martin received recognition as All-
Americans. See story, page 7.

FACULTY -- STUDENTS
Your College I.D. is Good For

TW

AT DRS. BLUM, NEWMAN, BLACKSTOCK St ASSOCIATES 

OPFOMETRISTS, P.C.

Contact lenses too! Bu a pair of tinted contacts
and get a pair 0 clear contacts free!

Drs. Blum, Newman, I
Blaclrstnclr & Associates I

OPTOMETHISTS. P. c. |

Lexington-Buena Vista

Shopping Center
Lexington

463-1600

r- ———— —————————._...

‘I
| BUY ONE PAIR—GET SECOND PAIR |

FREE! 5

| Present this coupon and receive a free pair of glasses

| when you purchase a complete pair of glasses. Or, buy I
a pair of tinted contacts and get a pair of clear contacts

I free. Some restrictions apply—ask for details. Offer expires I

| February 15. 1990.
I

Coupon must bcprcscntcd at time oi optiial plIi(IldSt‘.
No other discounts apply.

I Drs. Blunt, Newman, I
Lllaclrstoclr E Associates I

OPTOMETRIS TS, P. C._]

'9

 
 

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams re-
turned early frorri Christmas break for
two-a-day workouts in preparation for
the bulk of their schedules.

“Our training has accomplished a
lot this break,” head coach Page
Reniillard said. "We’re getting in a
lot of hard work, and that's impor-
tant. It’s a prerequisite if we're
going to swim well at the end of the
year."

Both the men and the women
hosted Shippensburg, a Division 11
school, last night at Twombly Pool.

“They’re a well-coached team,”
Rerriillaiid said. “We haven't beaten
them for a few years.”

Missing from the men’s lineup
was senior All-American Dave Olson
who sustained an elbow injury in
early December.

“He’s already back in the water
and he may swim on Sunday, but we

don't want to bring him along too
quickly,” Reniillard said.

Although Olson's absence leaves
the men with only eight swimmers.
Remillard is not overly concerned.

“They're all pretty good swim-
mers," he said. “We can survive...
we hope.”

Olson did not swim in the meet
against Shippensburg. The men lost
their meet 111-72 despite wins from
junior Jim Dunleavy and sophomore
Doug Brown.

The women fared a little better,
dropping a close meet 104-100.
Freshman Claire Dudley continued on
her successful season, bringing home
a victory.

On Sunday, the Generals will face
Charleston, a traditional NAIA swim-
ming power, in the Cy Twombly
Pool at 7 p.m.

“This is our first meet with them
and it should be a tough one for us,
but I think we'll swim well on Sun-
day,” said Remillard.

Prior to Christmas break the
men’s team was defeated by William

Irons heads list of Generals
named to All-America team

From W&L Sports Infonnatlon

Washington and Lee's record-
breaking split end Craig Irons, who
caught 75 passes for 1,010 yards in
1989, led a quartet of Generals hon-
ored last week by Football Gazette
magazine as Division III football All-
Americans.

Irons, a junior from Dallas, Texas,
was named a second team Division
HI All-America by the magazine,
which is devoted exclusively to small
college football. Irons set W&L sin-
gle-season records for receptions and
yards and was ranked ﬁfth in the
nation in receiving in Division III
with 7.5 catches per game.

Irons was joined on the Football
Gazette All-America squad by quar-
terback Phillip Sampson, tight end
Bob Martin, and linebacker Mike
Pack. Sampson, Martin and Pack all
received honorable mention honors.

Sampson, a senior, finished his

W&L career with 12 school passing
records, including single game and
career records for passing yards,
completions, completion percentage,
touchdowns and passing efﬁciency
rating.

Martin, the Generals second-lead-
ing receiver in 1989, had 36 catches
for 349 yards and three touchdowns
in his senior season, only his second
as tight end. Martin had the garne-
winning touchdown catch in W&L's
21-17 win over Sewanee.

Pack, a four-year starter and tri-
captain of the team, ﬁnished his ﬁnal
season as the Generals’ leading tack-
ler for the second time in his career.
Pack had 103 total tackles in 1989
and also made two interceptions. He
finished with 395 career tackles and
averaged nearly 11 tackles a game
for his career.

All four Generals were first team
All-Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence and first team All-State.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 11, 1990

Shippensburg nips swimmers

and Mary, 134-100. However, that
score is deceiving since William and
Mary competes in diving whereas
W&L does not. The Tribe collected
all 32 possible points in the one and
tliree-meter diving events.

“We swam well,” Rernillard said.
“But they have diving and that made
the difference in the meet.”

Olson and sophomore Jay Smith
each swam to two first-place finishes.
Olson won the 200-yard Individual
Medley (1:58.76) and the 200 back-
stroke (2:0l.46). Smith earned the
top spot in the 50 free (21.56) and
the 100 free (47.97).

After three conference meets the
women's team owns the best times in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference in every event except the
1650 free and the 200 free relay.

The women began December with
a victory over Sweet Briar, 159-103.
On December 6, a victory over Hol-
lins (181-81) ensured an undefeated
season for the women in ODAC dual
meets. The women have lost only
one ODAC meet in the past four

EIGHTIES

from page 6

of being behind the microphone as the nation watched a miracle and a
monstrosity. His sentence in 1980 was a headline in every major paper
in the country, and his fragment in 1989 told the nation that something
was drastically wrong in San Francisco.

In 1980, Lake Placid, N.Y. was the sight of the Winter Olympics. An
amazing feat in itself was that the U.S. hockey team had made it into the
championship round. In the serriifinals, the Americans, led by goalie Jim
Craig, defenseman Ken Morrow and forwards Mike Eruzione and Mark
Johnson, took on the Russian hockey machine.

With Craig playing like a brick wall in the nets, Johnson sparked the
U.S. attack, tying the game at three with his second goal of the game
with 0:01 left in the second period. When Eruzione, the captain, scored
midway through the ﬁnal period, the U.S. had a 4-3 lead.

With ﬁve seconds remaining, the U.S. still held the lead, and Michaels
asked America the most famous question of the decade: “DO YOU

BELIEVE IN MIRACLES?’ ’

Nine years later in San Francisco, Michaels and baseball counterparts
Tim McCarver and Jim Palmer were doing the pre-garne show for Game
3 of the World Series, when time stopped. As McCarver was describing
the key play of game two, the press box in Candlestick Park began to
shake. Michaels interrupted his colleague and managed to say “FOLKS,
WE’RE HAVING AN..." before power went completely dead.

That sentence and a fragment bookend the 1980s. I know I left out a
lot of things that many people deemed worthy of remembrance; each
person will take his own memories into the 1990s. I'd just like to hear
Michaels say one more time, “DO YOU BELIEVE IN MIRACLES?”

But for now, welcome back, and happy new year.

  

 

Claire Dudley...

Freshman sets school records in
100- and 200- breaststroke

years.
During the Hollins meet, Dudley

set school records in the 100 and 200

breaststroke (l:l1.14, 2:34.01).

 

DEFENSE

from page 6

Vincent, nailing two three-pointers to
start the game. Shooting an anemic
29 percent coming into the game, he
erupted for a career-high 20 points
on six-of-11 shooting.

Said Canﬁeld, “I could have
started any number of people for
different reasons. I had a hunch about
Pat starting. My hunch was right. He
got those first couple of three-point
baskets, and after that you’ve just got
to believe.”

St. Vincent did a good job of
concentrating on stopping Jacobs,
holding him to 12 points, but by
concentrating on Jacobs, the Bearcats
allowed the outside players to roam
free. Holton, Casey, Watkins and
Gallavan continually killed the Bear-
cats with timely three-pointers.

Holton led the way with five on
the way to a season high 24. Casey
nailed three trifectas on the way to
his ﬁfth straight double ﬁgure per-
forrnance. He ﬁnished with 15. Wat-
kins continued to shine, nailing both
of his three-point attempts. The
freshman leads the team in three-
point accuracy, hitting 64 percent.

The game hinged on two technical
fouls called on St. Vincent coach
Bernie Matthews. After protesting a
call too vehemently, Matthews was
given a technical foul with the score
71-66 W&L. He reacted by kicking

.his chair in a manner not unlike

Indiana coach Bob Knight. The re-
sult: technical foul #2.

Jacobs made all four foul shots
and then scored two straight lay-ups
to give the Generals a 78-66 lead,
which proved to be too much for the
Bearcats to overcome, as the’ Generals
won their ﬁfth straight game 93-89.
Holton was named to the all-touma-
ment team, as was Jacobs, who wal-
ked away with Most Valuable Player
honors.

Canﬁeld was pleased with the
efforts the substitutes put in. “You
never know how a team will react
when a they lose a three-year starter.
We had some kids come off the
bench, namely [6’7” sophomore]
John [Witherington] (six points, seven
rebounds), [6’6” junior] Scott [Al-
rutz] (three, six), and Bryan W., who
all played really nice basketball.”

The Generals closed out the week
by diving back into Old Dorriinion
Athletic Conference play, starting
with Bridgewatcr, who W&L had
trounced 87-66 in the last game be-
fore exams. Six Generals scored in
double ﬁgures in that game.

.. I was more upset
than I’ve ever been
in my life about
team defense. I am
very disturbed with
the way this team
plays defense.

- Vern_e__§anfieI_c_i

But the second game was nothing
at all like the first game. The Gener-
als showed little if any emotion
thro_ughout the game, and their
performance left Canfield totally
disgusted with their defensive play.

Said Canﬁeld, “I was more upset
than I’ve ever been in my life about
team defense. I am very (llSlhl‘bC(l
with the way this team plays defense.
I am concerned with that and I will
extend this team to a point where l
think they can play team defense.
That is the only way you win
championships.”

Despite their poor defense, the
Generals still had a chance to win the
game. Melton scored a lay up with
23 seconds to play to tie the game at
66, but BC’s Neil Burke hit the first
of two free throws with just seven
seconds remaining to give the Eagles
a 67-66 lead. Gallavan was not able
to get off a shot as he was double-
teamed in the comer as time expired.

The loss dropped the Generals to
7-3, 3-2 in ODAC play on the
season. Tonight the Generals will
look to regain their winning ways
against the Maroons of Roanoke
College, winners of their last three
games. Last season the Generals beat
Roanoke three times. Game time is
set for 7:30 p.m. in the Wanicr
Center.

WASHINGTON AND Li-:1: (cs)

Gallavan 2-3 041 6, l-Infield -7 2-2 16. Jacobs
7-14 2-2 16, Holton 4-10 do 9, Casey 4-11 00 9,
Melton 34 2-2 9, Alxutz 1-3 co 2, Watkins 0-2 4
264, Witherington 0-1 04) 0. Totals 3-51 11-15

BRIDGEWATER (67)

Rush 7-12 4-418, Burke 3-8 3-5 9, Watson 4-
5 00 8. Gerber 4-9 4-5 14, Kurnpe: 2-5 2-2 7,
Ihle 2-4 3-4 9. Hodge 0-1 0-0 0, Bnnner 1-2 0-
1 2. Totnk 23-46 16-21 67.

Halftime-32-28, W&L. 'I1'ireo- ' t goals-W&L 5-
12) Gallavnn 2, Holtm 1, Clfeoynl. Melton 1; I§C
(5-9) Gerber 2. Ihle 2, Kumpa 1. Total fouls-
W&L 19, BC 11. Fouled out-None. Rebounds-
W&L 28 (Hatﬁeld 6), BC 30 (Gerber 6). Assists-
W&L 9 (Casey 3), BC 10 (Gerber 4). A-750.

because ALL FI'8.t_€1‘Illtl€S
oppose hazing!

Hazing has no place in the fraternity experi-

CIICC.

It is a dangerous fonn of intimidation that
makes a mockery of the whole concept of
fraternal love. It does not strengthen bonds of
friendship. It does not demonstrate leadership. It
does not prove an individual’s superior qualifi-

cations in any way.

We, the men's general fraternities united in the
National Interfratemity Conference, are dedi-
cated and determined to deal with hazing.

We stand united in our affirmation of basic

standards of human behavior.

. We instill the principles of diligence, honor,
integrity, virtue, duty and respect for human

dignity.

Consider these facts:

- Hazing is a criminal act in more than 30 states
yet during the past decade more than 40 stu-

dents have died in ha:ing—related tragedies.

- College students continue to be crippled and

injured (’\‘(’I‘_V year by ill—conceived and illegal
ha:ing in a variety of student organizations.

- Although hazing has been actively discouraged
by national fraterniticsfor decades, highly-
publicized, isolated incidents consistently
diminish or d€stro_v the value ofworthwhile,
positive and bemf/it'ial_fraternity activities
across the nation.

This is what we’re doing about it:

- Hu:ing — which fratcrnitirls drffinc as any

action or situation intended to pr

'oducc mental

or physical lunussnzent, embarrassment or
ridicule — is ABS 0L U TEL Y FORBIDDEN.

- F ratcrnitics which recognize that the best
candidatcisfor nIc'n1bw‘.sliip will neither sup-
port nor submit to hazing. have long attracted
the best members and will continue to do so.

- We are developing new and innovative wu_vs to
provide positive membership education to our

members —— not just cducationfo

bars. but ongoing personal development
programs for members throughout their

college career.

- Our educational programs. by which we

encourage sound moral precepts
highest standards ofconstructive

responsibi/it_v. are designed to inspire respect

for individuals and their persona
human beings; they emphasize th

and degrading impact of hazing on the

perpetrators and the group.

" "cw "'3'?" to probation to

even
dissolution of
hazing and we

There is no pla
and the

‘w"’”] worthiness by su
1 worth as
0 negative

Violation of our standards leads to swift
and certain sanctions: ranging from directives

suspension to expulsion ——

to revocation of charter and

chapter. We‘re serious about
think you ought to know it.

Ce in today's fratemities for

those who think anyone should demonstrate his

ffering insult or injury. That's

an attitude that now threatens the entire frater-
nity system. If you're interested in finding out
how the leaders of tomorrow can experience the
joy of mature relationships with respect for

individual dignity then write to us at the Frater-
nity Executives Association. 3901 W. 86th St.
Suite 390. Indianapolis. IN 46268.

We're in the business of developing leaders
with integrity: brotherhood is an essential ingre-

dient.

America's
Fraternities
“Developing Integrity In Leadership"

 
 

EBACK PAGE

The Fllng-tum Phi, January 11, 1990

“sex, lies, and videotape”

Don’t waste your money on this alluring movie

By Todd Peppers
Entertainment Columnist

SEX...LIES...VIDEOTAPE...
Notice how the words reach out and
grab you. In my high school journal-
ism class Mr. Gaherty taught us to
begin an article with a sure-fire sen-
tence that would compel the reader to
devour the article. Perhaps Steven
Soderbergh, who wrote and directed
“sex, lies, and videotape,” also had
Mr. Gaherty for Journalism 101, be-
cause the title of his film certainly
gets your attention. Yesterday I was
almost ,involved in an accident be-
cause some driver on State street
came to a complete stop and stared
at this shocking title on the theater
marquee. When I came to Lexington
the town still had blue laws; now
local theaters are displaying film titles
that would make your grandmother
blush.

I don't know exactly what to
write about “sex, lies, and video-
tape.” Shortly after the final credits
stopped rolling, I turned to a friend
and remarked that the theater lobby
should sell Cliff’s Notes — then I
might understand the celluloid images
that had just ﬂashed before my eyes.
I had the same reaction last year
when the Washington and Lee Film
Society brought “Blue Velvet” to
campus. I admit that “sex, lies, and
videotape” is not gory or violent like
“Blue Velvet,” but both films deal
with such bizarre sexual perversion
that the moviegoer is utterly bafﬂed.
l’m hard-pressed to say whether the
film has any coherent message.

I am not alone in my perplexity
over the ﬁlm. I took a brief, and
very informal, survey of W & L
students who saw “sex, lies, and vid-
eotape.” Some comments: “the film
was somewhere between introspective
and psychotic"...“it was so
weird”...“t.he movie just went on
forever”...“it was a bit depressing
and lacked any sense of

ii"

morality”...“You expect a movie to
have a logical conclusion, but at the
end the most screwed-up people turn
out to be the most normal.” And
these are the sanitized observations.

The film stars the beautiful model
Andie MacDowell, who plays the part
of Ann Bishop Mulaney. MacDow-
ell's character is a sexually-repressed
woman who talks with her therapist
constantly about such stirring issues
as garbage disposal methods and the
families of airline fatalities. At one
point she remarks of herself: “the
last time I was happy, I put on twen-
ty-five pounds.” Ann is walking
through life in a stupor as she tries
to maintain the charade of a marriage
with her philandering husband.

Peter Gallagher’ is cast as John
Mulaney. He does a fine job breath-
ing life into his unsympathetic role.

Andie MacDowell, however,
strikes me as a one-dirnensional ac-
tress who landed the only role suit-
able for her limited dramatic abilities.
If one merely sees “sex, lies, and
videotape,” then they might come
away with the opinion that Mac-
Dowell is a skilled actress. She
successfully portrays a woman who is
so neurotic and restrained that she
stumbles through her sinking life like
a zombie. But, unfortunately for
MacDowell, that is her acting style.
In one of her first roles, the very
British Jane in “Tarzan," her acting
was so wooden that Glemi Close had
to re—dub MacDowell's lines. If you
watched “Saturday Night Live"
before Christmas, when Andie Mac-
Dowell was the guest host, then you
discovered that she reads cue-cards
with even less proficiency than Bob
Hope. But I will admit that, for this
one limited role, MacDowell does
bring some believability to the char-
acter of Ann Mulaney.

Ann Bishop’s colorless life be-
comes complicated when her hus-
band’s old college roommate enters
her life. James Spader is cast as
Graham Dalton--a friend who has
grown progressively weirder since his

Welcome Back

DO IT

Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m.,Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of

Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

college days with John.

Graham’s philosophy of life is
simple: he lives out of his car be-
cause he wants to carry around only
one key. If Graham buys a house,
then he might have to deal with two
keys. And the idea of working is out
since his boss might ask Graham to
close the store--which involves even
more of those insidious keys. His
lifestyle causes John to remark that
“Graham dresses like an undertaker
to the art world."

James Spader’s acting style makes
MacDowell seem ﬂamboyant in com-
parison. Spader usually stares mo-
rosely at his friends and attempts to
speak his lines without moving any
facial muscles. You have to drink
lots of coffee before watching this
film.

However, Graham has some of the
movie’s more clever and thought-
provoking lines; his comments about
lawyers, calling them the lowest life
form on earth for example, almost
kept me from sending in my law
school applications.

Moveover, Graham has a disturb-
ing habit that Ann discovers: he likes
to videotape women as they talk
about their sexual histories. That is
all I will reveal about the plot--I
can’t give away all the secrets--but
you can bet that Graham’s little hob-
by quickly involves John, Ann, Cyn-
thia Bishop, (Arm's sister) and even
Graham himself.

“sex, lies, and videotape” is
filmed like oncof Graham’s videos.
The shots are bright and grainy, and
the picture constantly wobbles. At
times the camera zooms in for unset-
tling closeups, and the lens watches
our players like a judgmental eye.
The audio picks up every rustle of
clothing and turn of a magazine page,
but the dialogue sometimes dissolves
into feedback and garbled utterances.
I suppose Soderbergh uses this tech-
nique to create the sensation of watc-
hing a video within a video. Yet I
didn’t think his method was actually
that clever, and it doesn't take long

Read "3" I“ “‘°'°I‘"

figure out the symbolism of the di-
rector’s style. Furthermore, I was
ultimately distracted by the sloppy,
home-made feel of» the movie. If I
want to see over-exposed scenes, a
shaky picture, and bizarre camera
angles, then I'll go watch some of
my father's home-movies.

I honestly don’t understancl the
rave reviews that the film is receiv-
ing. Roger Ebert said that “sex,
lies, and videotape‘ was one of those
well-written pieces we expect from
somebody like Woody Allen."

I have mentioned in earlier rc-
views that I am a fan of Wocxly
Allen, but I don't understand why
Ebert places this film in the same
class as Allen. I don't think the
dialogue is that witty or realistic, the
documentary style is very heavy-
handcd, and the audience is given a
typical Hollywood ending.

If there is any deep message in
the film, then maybe it forces us to
concentrate on the relations between
men and women. Is there a lack of
morality in our sexual practices that
will ultimately wreck our well-or-
dered lives? Is Soderbergh berating
the “thirtysomething" crowd? I
can’t provide a good answer.

Possibly the ﬁlm is just too deep
for this reviewer. I did not enjoy
“sex, lies, and videotape.” Peppers
will give the movie a “C," which
places it lower than “Uncle Buck"
on my movie poll — that confirms
how sophisticated I am! At the start
of the article, I mentioned how my
old high school instructor taught my
journalism class to begin an article
with an “attention—gctter.” But Mr.
Gaherty also told us that the rest of
the article must back up that initial
burst of interest. Soderbergh fails to
produce a film that can follow his
racy title.

“sex, lies, and videotape" is cur-
rently showing at the State Theater.
It is rated “R” for profanity and
strong sexual content. I wouldn’t
waste money on it... the Film Society
is showing it free next month.

I Best Fundraisers On Campus!

Is your fraternity, sorority or club interested
in earning $1.000+ for a one-week. on-
campus marketing project? You must be
well-organized and hard working. Call Jenny
or Myra at (800) 592-2121 .

1 p.m.
1:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

3 p.m.

8 p.m.

3 p.m.
7:30 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

All Day

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

WEEKLY CALENDAR

FILM SOCIETY: The Dead (USA. 1987),
directed by John Huston. Classroom "A,"
Lewis Hall. Public invited.

SWIMMING (M&W): Generals vs.
UNC-Charlotte. Twombly Pool.

OPERA BROADCAST: Turandot (Puccini).

WLUR-FM (91.5).

FILM SOCIETY: The Dead (USA, 1987).
Classroom ‘A,’ Lewis Hall. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: BASKETBALL:
Virginia Wesleyan; WRESTLING: Davidson
Triangular.

SWIMMING (M&W): Generals vs. College of
Charleston. Twombly Pool.

. Martin Luther King Day.

CD&P: Interviewing Workshop. Room 109,
University Center.

MARTIN LUTHER KING PROGRAM: I-'lrst
Baptist Church, 103 N. Main St. Students
from ~W&L and VMI will speak on "What
‘The Dream’ Means to Me.‘ Music provided.
Reception to follow in Church Hall. Public
invited.

CD&P: Test Interpretation. Room 108,
University Center.

BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Eastern Mennonite
College. Warner Center.

CONTACT LECTURE: Fred Barnes. political
commentator, senior editor of The New
Republic. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

CD&P: Cover Letter/Resume Critique. CD&P
Office.

ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE
SERIES: "Chopin Lives,‘ Robert Guralnik.
Southern Seminary.

MARTIN LUTHER KING MEMORIAL
LECTURE: Jarvis Hall, ABD Visiting
Fellow in Politics at W&L, will speak on
“Non-Violent Social Change.‘ Lee Chapel.
Reception to follow at Morris House. Public
invited.

HEALTH EDUCATION LECTURE: Dr. Richard
Keeling, director of Student Health Services at
the University of Virginia, will speak on
‘The Relation of Self-Esteem to the Spread of
Sexually Transmitted Diseases and AIDS."
Lee Chapel. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL:
Randolph-Macon College.

    

 
 

DEAVERS ALLEY
BUSINESS SERVICES
Our Typing

IS
Word Perfect‘

    

8:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M.
Evenings and Weekends by Appointment

203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

463-9455

   
   
    
  

Aerobics 0 Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

  

Rates are: $2.50 for the first four
lines and $.75 for each additional
line (up to 8 total lines).There are
24 characters per line; caps count
as two characters.

I""'_-—__'__——_—_—__—__-—--_-"-

RESERYE OE!‘ICERS' TRAINING CO-RPS

YOUR UNCLE WANTS

TO PAY FOR COLLEGE. BUT ONLY
IF YOU'RE GOOD ENOUGH.

Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition
and provide an allowance for fees and
textbooks. Find out if you qualify.

sﬂiillm

'19
IE

[E33353

ARMY ROTC

TIIE SMARTEST COLLEGE
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

‘DE

Contact: Capt. Ramos
463-8485

WANTED! I! '

Students to join the I990 Student Travel Services’ Sale Team. Earn CASH and/or

FREE Spring Break travel marketing Spring Break packages to Jamaica, Cancun,
Acapulco, and Daytona Beach. For more information call I-800-648-4849.

LL///////////////I//////[J

 

j : : : : : : & Z : : Z : : : : Z ; : : Z II—-'--n::u—1—-c—:'::1-I-o—.Z1.:uu—:222‘

Use this form to order...

PERSONALS

Personal ads may be submitted to The Ring-tum Phi office, on the second ﬂoor of the university
center, or can be mailed to: Personals, P.O. Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450. Ads must be recieved
in the office by Tuesday at 3:00pm for inclusion in the following Thursday's edition. Submissions
of questionable content may be rejected by the editors, and a refund will be given.

 

   
  

_.._...._.——
._ 7

I
v
I

////////I//////I//////I/[J:il
///////I/ll///11//////////I‘

I
///l//////////////////////It

PAYMENT MUST ACCOMPANY SUBMISSION
_________ __9tIss1t§_29:_12'3§_I3£'2a£ym_1Eb£__________--l

I 1

I

l

9

 

