 
 

  

FEB .3 it 1993

0112 ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

~

VOLUME 159, NO. 18
P

A

1‘

‘EC to exam

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

ine

secrecy rules

 

By Pat Lopes
“Assignment Editor

Executive Committee President Willard
Dumas Monday called for the appointment of a
.%Nhite Book Revisions Committee in response

0 suggestions from students that the EC di-
ivulge more information about investigations of
-possible honor violations.

Also at Monday’s EC meeting, the EC went

behind closed doors to hear a budget report
from FD Chairman Alex Hitz, who asked to
give his report in executive session. Dumas,

-‘Senior EC Rep. David Radulovic and Junior EC
Rep. John Fialcowitz voted against the motion

‘to close the hearing, but the motion to go into

,executive session passed, and a Phi reporter
was asked to leave the meeting.

3 Dumas said he decided to call for a new

‘revisions committee after attending a Law
School forum on the Honor System and the

‘White Book. He said he will present concerns

4expressed by the law students to the revisions
committee for its consideration.

J Dumas said several law students suggested
that students under investigation for possible
honor violations should be notiﬁed that they are

lbeing investigated.

Currently, students are not formally notified

by the EC unless the investigation is complete

;and the entire committee votes to hear the case
in closed trial. According to Dumas, students

{are not notiﬁed because it would be very
itlifﬁcult for them to work knowing they may be

ied for an honor violation.
“How many Washington and Lee students
wish to have their academic lives disturbed
when only one-fifth of the investigations have

(ended in closed hearings?" Dumas asked.

‘ Another concern Dumas said he will relate
to the revisions committee is whether the

icstudent body should be notified each time an
investigation is conducted. Currently, the student
body is not notiﬁed about an investigation

‘unless the person under investigation withdraws
or opts for a Student Body Hearing.

t Students participating in the forum suggested
the EC post notices stating basically what was
investigated and the result of the investigation.

Q

 
The White Book Revisions

Committee will consider
whether students should
know more about honor
investigations.

Dumas said the students were concerned about
an EC with the power to act in secrecy, with
no check provided by public records.

According to Dumas, the procedure for
investigations was designed to protect the
reputations of the accused and the accuser,
especially because most investigations do not
lead to hearings.

Dumas said is also concerned that regularly
releasing information about honor cases would
lead to a “codiﬁcation” of the honor system.
EC members would then cite past cases when
making decisions on later honor investigations.

“I can't stress how each case is unique,”
Dumas said.

The possibility of creating a separate EC for
the Law School was also discussed at the
forum and may be addressed by the revisions
committee, Dumas said. However, he said, there
is little support for separate executive com-
mittees for each campus.

“Most law-school students see the beneﬁts
of a collusion of law-school students and under-
graduates on the same committee,” Dumas said.

Both undergraduates and law students are
eligible to apply for positions on the White
Book Revisions Committee. Applications will
be available Friday at Carol Calkins’ ofﬁce in
the University Center and are due Monday,
March 12.

The EC will choose 12 committee mem-
bers, including a chairman.

Under the provisions of the White Book, a
White Book Revisions Committee must be
assembled once every four years. In addition,
the EC can call for a Committee when neces-
sary. The last time a revisions committee met
was in the 1987-88 school year.

That year, the committee held hearings in
Lee Chapel to measure student opinion.

D Please see EC page 4

   

3......“ .

Catching   brath

Senior Russell Crosby enjoys a rare peaceful moment at a in the stands, is about to show his approval of a referee's call

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 15, 1990

. W

recent home basketball game. Crosby, known for his wild antics by biting the head off his doll. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

A

By James Lake
Associate Editor

I

9 Students planning to live in the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon or Red Square fraternity
houses next year probably won't be able to
move in until rriid-December, university
., ofﬁcials said this week.

“Nobody’s going to move in before the
end of the fall term,” said Associate Dean
of Students Leroy “Buddy” Atkins.

The SAE, Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta
Theta, Phi Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha
and Sigma Nu houses will be renovated
during the first phase of the Washington and
Lee Fraternity Renaissance, a $10 million
restoration project.

Though permission from the city is still
pending, officials say that work on phase
one could begin as early as mid—April and
might continue through December.

According to W&L’s coordinator of
1 capital planning, Frank Parsons, much of the

renovation work should be completed before

$.-

Oﬂtaf»-A

Dccember. But Parsons said safety concerns
and other delays are likely to make it easier
for students to plan to live elsewhere until
after Christmas.

Parsons said the university wants to
allow the construction company’s manager
to set his own work schedule.

“We’re giving him as much ﬂexibility
as possible to complete that enterprise,”
Parsons said.

The Renaissance is part of the univer-
sity‘s overall Master Plan for future con-
struction, which will be discussed at a city
Planning Commission meeting tonight.

Parsons said that, even if the commission
does not vote on whether to endorse the
plan at this meeting, the commission could
still recommend that Lexington City Council
schedule a public hearing when it meets
later tonight.

By state law, that hearing could not
occur before March 15. If the hearing is
held on or near that date, and council then
votes on and approves the plan by April 1,
that date “would not have an adverse im-

pact on the Red Square houses,” Parsons
said.

Current plans call for work on the SAE
house to begin early in spring term, and for
work on the Red Square houses to start
June 1.

Parsons said some preliminary estimates
as to how long the work would take did not
reflect “unknown conditions” that the cur-
rent schedule does leave time for.

“Sometimes you can never tell,” he
said. De—landscaping, excavation and asbes-
tos abatement could delay completion of the
project, said Parsons. This revised schedule
takes such possible delays into account, said
Parsons.

Also, even though construction might be
completed at some houses before it is at
others, furniture installation probably would
be done all at once and only after all the
construction is over, he said.

Nevertheless, Parsons predicted the
fraternities might be able to begin using
their houses for meetings and perhaps meals
before the end of fall term.

‘Red Square, SAE may be vacant through fall term

Students scramble for housing

The first phase of Washington and Lee’s
Fraternity Renaissance will force about 110 stu-
dents to ﬁnd other places to live, many more
than the university is now ready to provide
temporary housing for.

According to Assistant Dean of Students
Ken Ruscio, the university now has 35 beds re-
served for displaced students. “Until we have
a better reading of the numbers, we will stick
with that,” he said.

Ruscio last week sent a memo to the
freshman pledges of SAE, Beta Theta Pi, Phi
Delta Theta, Phi Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha
and Sigma Nu. The memo included a form
freshmen were asked to return by tomorrow if
they wanted campus housing.

Tuesday afternoon, "Ruscio said he had
received 30 applications from freshmen.

The entire central building of the Woods
Creek Apartments has been reserved for those
students displaced by the Renaissance, Ruscio
said. Those rooms will provide about 30 beds,

and ﬁve more will be available in Gaines Hall,
Ruscio said.

If further applications come in, according to
Ruscio, at least 15 more singles and doubles,
scattered throughout Gaines and Woods Creek,
could be made available. W&L also would look
into making singles into doubles and renting
houses in town if necessary, he added.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said housing displaced students in the
former Zeta Beta Tau house is also a pos-
sibility, but he said the cost to make that house
livable may run too high, perhaps as much as
$50,000. The total cost of renovating the ZBT
house is estimated at $400,000, according to
Atkins.

Both Ruscio and Atkins said displaced
juniors and seniors also will be able to apply
for university space. Those students can pick
up the necessary forms from the Dean of
Students’ ofﬁce, said Atkins. ,
— By James Lake

‘ W L U R
I
1 Ru noffs held
I.
5
trades Jazz f
‘ or EC osts
« for rock
, _ Runoff elections for the Big Three student body
BY Spam Bmmbl’ ofﬁces were held today, and results of those elec-
it Staff Reporter tions should be available early tonight.
‘ Washington and Lee's Voting Regulations Board
l‘ WLUR Lexington has recently plans to post the the results outside the EC ofﬁce
. changed ﬁts format to meet students’ 1“ “1;SU:1VeTS11); (inter  5  1 997 d
requests Or more rock. ‘C On a O 3. CHIC men 0 , Stu CHIS,
; Two new classic rock shows have aPPT_°f“ma‘31Y 66 Percent °f V-11° Smdem b°d}’
been added on Mondays and wed_ participated in Monday’s balloting. Here are the
I nesdays from 12:30-2:30 pm. These results of those ballots (candidates in bold made it
new shows are replacing two jazz t° mdayys “m°ffS)5
4 shows.
Two new bluegrass and country '
i shows are scheduled for the 1230- 
»: 2:30 p.m. slot on Tuesdays and wmard Dumas 599
_ Thursdays; _ Tom Hatcher 402
* . According to Greg Ossi, opera- Rob Saunooke 119
’ tions director of WLUR, these chan— Tom Spurgeon 277
ges are an effort to improve the
 overall format of WLUR and to - -
increase listenership.  
I Ossi says the decison to replace Mark Cobb 245
, several jazz shows was necessary John Flajcowitz 411
because, “there were not enough Ray welder 639
\' qualiﬁed DJ ’s to ﬁll these slots. We
* °§‘$l.‘§,h“2’£o§§“§w?“;d‘-’“‘S »?"‘° ’‘“°“” Secretary
e n jazz.
I There are still jazz shows on
Friday afternoon from 12:30-2:30 Jeﬂ Kelsey - 512
‘V m and on Monda Wednesda Clayton Kenmngton 336
P‘ ' ‘ . 3" 5" Caroline Wight 435
3 and on Thursday nights from 9:30-
l2:00. These evening jazz shows
1 have been extended an extra half Total ballots cast 1322
houn

Man accused of robbing profs

 

By Mike Badger
Staff Reporter

A suspect was arrested Feb. 2 for the
burglaries of two Washington and Lee
faculty members, according to the Rock-
bridge County Sheriff‘s Department.

Thomas R. Morke, 34, was arrested after
a high—speed car chase, according to Capt.
Ron Hall.

Hall said Morke eluded officers after
more than two hours of on-and-off pursuit
and then turned himself in to Lexington
Attorney Thomas M. Simons.

According to Sgt. Torben Pedersen of
the Lexington Police Department, Morke is
a suspect in both the Dec. 19 burglary of
football coach Gary Fallon and the Jan. 23
burglary of economics Prof. John Winfrey.

Patricia Fallon, Coach Fallon’s wife and
secretary to the Dean of Students, said her
husband was in Florida on a recruiting trip
and she was at work when their home at
916 Providence Place was burglarized.

Police reports show that the burglar
made off with over $1,500 worth of jewelry
from the Fallon’s house, including the
coach's 1959 National Championship ring
which he earned while playing football for

Car chase through Lex
finishes with a bang

By Robert Tompkins
Staff Reporter

A shot was ﬁred on West Washington
Street early Friday morning after a police
car chase through downtown Lexington.

The shot was apparently ﬁred accidental-
ly by a Lexington police ofﬁcer as he
attempted to get the driver out of a stolen
car in front of the Robert E. Lee Episcopal
Church at the comer of Washington Street
and Lee Avenue. No one was injured in the
incident.

Willie Preston Wills, 24, of Woodland

Avenue in Buena Vista, was arrested and
charged with stealing the vehicle and driving
under the inﬂuence. He is being held in the
Rockbridge County Jail in lieu of $7,500
bond.

Wills is accused of stealing the 1984
Ford Escort from his brother, Grover Wills,
in Buena Vista around 11 p.m. Thursday.
The theft was reported to Buena Vista
police about 12:30 Friday morning.

According to the Lexington Police

Department, Sgt. E. W. Straub saw the car
heading north on Main Street at the comer
of Preston Street in Lexington around 1 a.m.

Ci Please see CHASE page 4

Syracuse University.

According to Pedersen, the items stolen
from Winfrey’s home at 628 Stonewall St.
had a total value of between $12,000 and
$13,000. Pedersen said the burglar made off
with over $10,000 worth of silver alone.

Pedersen said Morke is also a suspect in
the burglaries of three students’ homes. Two
of those burglaries occurred in December;
the third was in November.

Hall said Morke has been charged with
ﬁve counts of breaking and entering and
eight counts of grand larceny in the county,
but he said Morke is a suspect in at least
25 to 40 different area burglaries.

 

Clarification

A story in last week’s Phi incor-
rectly described the current status of
the Delta Gamma Interest Group at
Washington and Lee. That group now
is composed of 16 undergraduate
women, said Panhellenic Association
Publicity Chairman Whitney Hopkins.

If the PHA proposal for DG’s
colonization rush is accepted by DG
nationals, the interest group will be
looking for approximately 20 women
to colonize, she said.

The installation process for the
DGIG on Feb. 28 is for those women
who are “committed” to the interest
group, added Hopkins.

 

 

OPINION

 

Fighting back
for fraternities

It was only a matter of time. Once advocates of “civil
rights” and “opponents of discrimination” started bashing
judicial nominees for belonging to all-male clubs, single-
sex fraternities couldn’t be far behind on the list of targets.
But this latest front in the war against freedom of associa-
tion has opened up not, as one might expect, in a federal
courthouse or the halls of Congress; Middlebury College
has “seen the light" and ordered its all-male fratemities to
admit women or hit the road.

According to a story in The New York Times last month,
Middlebury President Olin Robison called the order by the
school’s trustees “an imaginative, creative, thoughtful and
workable approach.” He left out one important adjective:
unconstitutional. Somewhere at Middlebury, perhaps hidden
away in a dark comer of the library, is a copy of the U.S.
Constitution. Its First Amendment has some interesting
things to say about freedom of association and whether the
government can tell us who to spend time with.

True, Middlebury is a private school, and thus it can
legally enforce such a rule. But should a college be in the
business of teaching unconstitutional behavior by example?
Is it appropriate for Robison and the school’s trustees to
tell their students that they know best how their students
should socialize? If the school wants to support coed

groups, that’s one thing; to demand that all groups admit.

women — or anyone else — is quite another.

The practical effects of Middlebury’s rule, it seems, will
be to drive fraternities off campus. Under the board’s
decision, Middlebury fraternities must change any national
rules excluding women or break their national ties
altogether. Faced with no national support and thus no
practical way to obtain insurance, the fratemities at
Middlebury seem doomed.

What of sororities? Middlebury’s all closed down in the
1960s, the Times said. Hopefully, schools with both
sororities and fraternities won’t be in a hurry to follow
Middlebury’s example.

Which brings us to Washington and Lee, a school that
has demonstrated a commitment to supporting fraternities
and sororities. Rather than driving such groups off campus,
President John Wilson and the university’s trustees have
recognized the value of a strong Greek system and are
working to eliminate only its faults and not the
organizations themselves.

Fraternities and sororities are composed of human
beings. They aren’t perfect. The appropriate response to
that fact is to preserve what is good and correct what is
bad, not to trash the system altogether.

W&L’s Fraternity Renaissance is perhaps the nation’s
best example of that philosophy. The process will not be

V easy, as many freshmen learned last weekend, when they

received "a" 1erte‘r°abour:htsusin'g;' options" for‘”‘the“'fall ‘from
Associate Dean of Students Ken Ruscio. They and their
brothers must realize that, like the Honor System, frater-
nities are not easily preserved, but the benefits both pro-
vide outweigh the challenges ahead. The inconveniences the
freshmen and their brothers will face next year are a small
price to pay.

Ours and yours

Unsigned editorials that appear in this column are the
work of The Ring-tum Phi’s editorial board, which consists
of the Phi’s editors, associate editors and editorial page
editor. We will occasionally publish editorials that are not
supported by the entire board; those pieces carry the ini-
tials of their authors.

As the editors of a student newspaper, we feel an obli-
gation to publish every student-opinion piece we receive,
and we encourage students and other members of the
W&L community to submit letters or “My Views.” All
we ask is that submissions be in the Phi office by noon
on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition and that, if
possible, they be submitted both in writing and on an
IBM-compatible disk. We reserve the right to edit any and
all submissions for reasons of taste, libel, clarity or length.

The Phi is indeed our newspaper, but it is no more
ours than it is yours. The quality and diversity of its
opinion page are dependent on your submissions.

-1» jay’

The Ring-tum Phi, February 15, 1990

 V)‘ !i“MiiI“i[!i[,,rt.' H ‘
.  ill HM ‘tilt

it . I‘i"u 

Don’t destroy our Honor System I

MY VIEW
By Billy Geary

I have always been the type of person who
does not blindly accept the status quo — I ﬁnd out
why something is the way it is. I must admit that
when I started law school, I was somewhat cynical
about the operation of the Honor System. However,
I took the time to discover how the Honor System
works and what the concept of “honor” means. I
now ﬁrmly believe in the Washington and Lee
Honor System.

In discussing the Honor System, it is useful to
visualize three categories of honor-related behavior.
First, there is behavior that is “clearly acceptable.”
This is behavior that raises no ethical problems.
Second, there is behavior that is “clearly
unacceptable.” This is behavior that everyone
would view as dishonest, such as copying an exam
from someone else’s blue book. Finally, there is
behavior that falls in the “gray area.” Behavior
that falls in this category is acceptable to some
people, but dishonorable to others. It may involve
“minor” violations of honor. This behavior may
be tolerated at some schools. However, it will get
you into trouble here if you underestimate the
meaning of “minor.”

The Honor System at W&L seeks to discourage
behavior that is not “clearly acceptable.” It

requires you to sense behavior that could be
viewed as “gray" and to correct it by either
changing your behavior or by asking for advice.
This is the only way to insure that high standards
of honor are followed.

People fear that they might do something
without thinking and then get charged with an
honor violation. Unfortunately, this fear causes
people to miss the point. One of the main purposes
of the Honor System is to require you to think
before making decisions.

A separate EC for the Law School?

It is nothing new for lawyers to think they are
special and thereby deserve to sculpt their own
standards and procedures. The idea of a separate
EC for the law school is untenable for several
reasons. First, there aren’t enough people in the
law school with the energy and time to build and
sustain a workable EC. As part of the Student Bar
Association, I know for a fact how hard it is to
get law students involved with university affairs.
Even if the Law School had its own EC, it would
not eliminate the proponents’ basic fear, which is
“What if I get convicted of an honor violation for
doing something I didn’t know was wrong?” If
one has this fear, then he will have it no matter
where the EC is or how it operates. A dichotomy
in the Honor System would further weaken the
fragile but important relationship between the
undergraduate and law schools.

What are Law School standards? P

It amazes me that law students would be more‘
concerned than the undergraduates about the Honor,
System. Law students do have a few more years
behind them, and should have a clearer sense of ‘l
right and wrong. They should be better able to,
control their own behavior. Ethics is a paramount
concern of lawyers today, and it is important for’:
would-be lawyers to think about their behavior in
a variety of unstructured situations. Although I hear \
law students complain about the procedures of the?
EC, I am concerned that they are really unhappy‘-
with the standards applied by the EC. If there is
to be a different standard of honor in the Law,
School, then it should be raised commensurate with
our age, experience, and aspirations. Unfortunately,"
it appears that age and experience have little to do,
with our understanding of honor.

Improving the Honor System ”

The administration can help by fully describing 5
the Honor System in the catalog and on a form
that each applicant should read and sign. This form
should describe the pros and cons of the Honor»
System. In this way, applicants will be put on
notice, and those who do not want to attend a’
school with an honor system like ours can select a,
school which meets their individual needs and
beliefs. W&L can afford to be selective bothv
academically and in terms of the student’s belief in

L] Please see GEARY page 3‘

Sbar’s 942 words on writers’ blocki

 

Gilt: Ring-mm lﬂltt

 

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 
 

 

Founded September 18, 1897

Editors .................................................. ..Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison

Associate Editors ................................... ..Jarnes Lake, Genienne Mongno
Assignment Editor ..................................................................... ..Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor ...................................................... ..Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor .......................................................... ..Parnela Kelley
Sports Editor ............................................................................ ..Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor ............................................................. ..Alesha Priebe

Editorial Cartoonist ........................................................... ..Jeff Woodland

Business Manager ................................................................. ..Anne Dysart
Advertising Manager ................................................... ..Jason Kelley
Circulation Managers ................................. ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

THE SBAR SIDE

By Jon Sbar
While in the midst of an
extremely important homework

assignment, I was afflicted with a
severe case of writers’ block. Right
now I can’t remember what class this
homework assignment was for or
even, for that matter, if it was for a
class, but I do know it was a matter
of life or death.

I absolutely had to do the assign-
ment, yet at the same time I couldn’t
shake my writers’ block. I burned
incense and still couldn’t write. I
inverted my computer screen to green
on black and it didn’t improve. I
went outside and inhaled gasoline
from my neighbor’s lawn mower and,
though I felt better, I still couldn't
write a word. I tried herbal tea, elec-
trocution, swimming naked in the
Maury River — and still nothing.

The moming sun was already
rising on the horizon and my deadline
was fast approaching. As I looked
hopelessly out of the window, a wave
of panic rushed through my body.
Suddenly, I heard the rhythmic thud
of heavy boots climbing the stairs.
Who could that be, I wondered. Did
I remember to lock the basement
door? The thudding boots echoed
down the hall and stopped outside my
room. As the doorknob on my closed
door began to turn, I lunged for the
handgun under my bed  wait a
minute, this isn’t a suspense thriller
 it’s a story about my writers’
block.

Let’s go back to the wave of
panic. I could not suffer one minute
more of my writers’-block misery. I
procured an electric ginsu kitchen
knife, plugged it in and, just as I was
about to plunge it into my heart, a
gigantic bengal tiger wearing hom-
rimmed glasses and holding an un-
abridged dictionary suddenly materi-

alized before my eyes.

Later I was to learn that he was
Tony, the inspirational tiger from
Frosted Flakes cereal, and that he had
come to help me do my homework.
At the time, however, I mistook him
for one of the man-eating bengal
tigers from Asia that is regularly
featured on public television wildlife
programs, and I reacted the way any
young, brave, testosterone-laden Am-
erican male would have in the situa-
tion: I dived under the bed.

After Tony told me who he was
(and proved it with his Frosted
Flakes ID card), I recalled the televi-
sion commercials in which he inspires
a struggling young athlete to rise to
his fullest potential by giving him a
bowl of cereal and a pep talk.

What Tony did for me was even
better. Instead of inspiring me to get
over my writers’ block, he did my
homework by himself. I just sat there
in the background eating Frosted
Flakes cereal (I didn’t tell Tony that

I prefer Cap’n Crunch). Tony, who‘
types about 300 words per minute,v
rapidly ﬁnished my assignment. He.
then printed it out, stapled it together
and reached out to hand it to me. I‘?
moved to take it, but all of the sud-
den my room was cloudy  I blindly
stabbed my hand into the mist  and ,
ﬁnally grasped  my buzzing alarm
clock. HOLD IT! This isn’t one of
those happy stories that later turns.
out to be only a dream, it’s an article
about a guy with writers’ block. Tony I
really did do my homework and, for
that matter, he did it well (Man, that '
tiger could write). .
Now that I had my homework
done, I ﬁgured I could afford to relax y
a little. I turned on the television to
the “Three Stooges.” The episode ‘
had already started, so I had to con-
centrate to understand the plot. Curly
was mixing drinks in a rubber boot 3
while Larry and Moe threw lemon-
meringue pies at each other and at V

     
   

  
 
 

 
  
   

 
  

   

’9O Lip Synch:
doubling last
year’s success

The Fourth-Annual Lip Synch contest to
beneﬁt Multiple Sclerosis (MS) was, once again,
a success beyond all expectations. Last year’s
proceeds of $1,100 were doubled this year as the
contest raised $2,156.16.

So many people need to be thanked: the 19
groups that performed, the 28 local merchants
who donated door prizes, Pepsi Cola Company
who donated the T-shirts, Brandon Canaday, Joei
Dyes, Scott Jackson, Bill Torrence, Mary Martin,
Janet Goad, Carol Calkins, Bob deMaria, Tom
Tinsley, Demaree Peck, Anne Coulling, etc.,
people who committed so much of their time and
expertise to make the event so successful.

If you were in the Ukraine and haven't heard
yet  yep, the FIJI’s successfully defended their
crown, performing “Jungle Love,” followed by
The Lord’s Ladies performing “It's Just the Way
that You Love Me,” and third prize going to the
D-53's version of “Love Shack.”

Very honorable mention went to The New
Kids/Donn Counsellors performing “Hanging

LETTERS

Tough.” Apologies to the 100 or so people who
had to be turned away at the door due to the
crowded conditions.

Tentative plans for 1991 are to accommodate
everybody at the pavilion. On behalf of v the
Multiple Sclerosis Society — thank you one and
all — you are the best!

Sincerely,
Jerry Darrell
Advisor, Students Against MS (SAMS)

Thanks for a
granted wish

This thank-you goes to those members of the
Washington and Lee community and everyone
else who helped make our son Shanen’s trip to
Disney World a success. Every time a smile
came on his face, it made us think of those
responsible for his being there.

Our hearts will always be touched by your
generosity. Also, that your love and concern for
such a darling little boy made life a little easier
for all of us.

With heartfelt thanks,
The Mike Moore family

Library cages
costly disks

I would like to add my voice to those of
others in this paper who have expressed opinions
about the Honor System. The University Library
has experienced two expensive thefts the past two
weekends, and I want the entire Washington and
Lee community to know about them. We sub-
scribe to several reference tools in CD-ROM
format. Three of these titles — the Business
Periodicals Index, the Social Sciences Index, and
the Humanities Index — use the same software.
In the spirit of trust and honor, we have kept
three discs (one of each title) adjacent to the
microcomputer in the Reference Room so that a
user can easily switch from one to another. Now
two discs are missing — one for the Business
Periodical Index and one for the Social Sciences
Index. To insure access to these sophisticated
tools by our students and faculty and to protect
the library's investment, I have removed the discs
from open access to the Circulation Desk where
they will have to be signed out. I wish that had
not been necessary.

Barbara Brown

Ll Please see SBAR page 3 I

O

*7

..-

C

*_

University Librarian

 
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
   
    
     
  
   
    
     
   
   
 
   
   
   
    
    
     
   
   
    
      
  
   
 
    
    
    
   
  
  
  
       
 
    
  
     
  
  
   
    
    

i
'1

3, V

.u

  
    
   
   

  

 

By Blair Simmons
Staff Reporter

Chemistry Professor Dr. J. Keith
Shillington is recovering slowly but
steadily from a mild stroke, and Golf
Coach Emmett “Buck” Leslie is
back on the golf course while under
treatment for chronic leukemia.

Shillington suffered a stroke Jan.
10, spent ten days at Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital and has been at the
Stonewall Jackson Extended Care
Facility ever since, said Chemistry
Prof. William Watt.

Shillington is under therapy to
regain full use of his left side, which
he lost as a result of the stroke, Watt
said. He is now able to stand for
short amounts of time and walk with
assistance, but use of his left hand is
coming back slowly.

Shillington is tired of being in the
hospital but visitors really cheer him
up, Watt said.“He’s not at all happy
about the long stay, but he's still
cracking jokes.”

Watt said Shillington telephoned
him on Jan. 9 to say he was feeling
dizzy and would not teach class the
following day. He said Shillington
called again the next morning, saying
he thought he had suffered a mild
stroke and was having difficulty
moving the left side of his body.

Watt said he convinced Shillington
to go to Stonewall Jackson immedi-
ately. He was sent to Roanoke for
tests and returned to Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital that night, where he
stayed for ten days.

Shillington has been teaching
chemistry at Washington and Lee
since 1953 and has been crowning
the Homecoming Queen every fall for
25 years.

The Athletic Department is also
missing one of its long-time mem-
bers. Five days before Shillington’s
stroke, Leslie was diagnosed as hav-
ing chronic leukemia and was admit-
ted to the rehabilitation hospital in
Roanoke, he said. He was also diag-
nosed as a diabetic with an enlarged
spleen.

The Ring-tum Phl, February 15, 1990

—\

Prof, coach feeling OK

Leslie has taught physical educa-
tion at Washington and Lee since
1960. He said he went to Stonewall
Jackson for a physical because he had
been fatigued and was immediately
sent to Roanoke for tests.

Unlike acute leukemia, chronic
leukemia does not arise abruptly and
progress rapidly. While survival is
measured in months for acute
patients, chronic leukemia is not as
dramatic and carries fewer complica-
tions.

Leslie's doctor in Roanoke gave
him the go-ahead for coaching the
golf team after a check-up on Jan. 26
showing that his spleen had gone
down and his blood sugar level was
under control, said Leslie.

An out-patient at Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital, Leslie is not on medica-
tion now, he said.

Although Leslie has temporarily
stopped teaching P.E. classes and
supervising the outdoor athletic facili-
ties, he said he hopes to resume all
his responsibilities soon and may be
able to teach this spring.

Inspecting CT>nstution

Frank A. Parsons, coordinator of capital planning at Washington and Lee, explains a point of construction

to H.F. “Gerry" Lenfest during a tour of the Lentest Center for the Performing Arts.
December forced some delays, Parsons says, but the delays will not alter plans

opening in January 1991. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

World class piper pipes for W&L

 

By Blair Simmons
Staff Reporter

World class Highland Bagpiper Scott MacAulay
said at the beginning of his recital Monday night
in Lee Chapel that he would be complimented if
the audience dozed off during his performance.
After all, it’s pretty hard to fall asleep to a bad
piper.

MacAulay’s music rang through the chapel as
he marched across the stage during Scottish and
Irish marches, tapped his toes to jigs and reels and
piped Waltzes sounding little like conventional
waltz music.

“The very extraordinary thing about Scott is
that he has excelled in amazingly diverse modes of
piping,” said W&L freshman Niall MacKenzie, a
student of MacAulay.

The highland bagpipe, unlike the lowland
bagpipe, plays only nine notes and cannot change
keys, MacAulay said. This lack of variety severely
limits the range of music the bagpipe can play.

The highland bagpipe has three stocks that lay
against the shoulder-- one base and two tenors--and
is blown by mouth. The lowland pipe has only one
stock with three separations and is blown by a
device called a bellow, said MacAulay. The differ-
ences make the lowland pipe much quieter.

“The lowland pipe wouldn’t bother anyone,”
said MacAulay. “But we have to condition our

listeners."MacAulay wore traditional Scottish
formal dress--the orange and green tartan kilt of
the MacAulay clan, a wide leather belt with large
brass belt-buckle, white wool knee-socks, shoes
with laces wrapped around his ankles, a cropped
jacket and a cap. Between sets he explained
traditions of bagpipe playing.

“We in piping don’t actually play in recitals to
gain respect from our peers,” MacAulay said.
“Sadly we must earn respect in the competition
arena.”

A piping contest repertoire usually consists of
a march, a jig, a reel and a waltz, MacAulay
said.The bagpipe has been played since the beginn-
ing of musical documentation, MacAulay said.
Scots kept playing the bagpipe even when it went
out of style in Europe, so when the bagpipe is re-
ferred to today, it is usually the highland pipe.

The bagpipe has been used throughout history
as an instrument of war to incite people to battle,
MacAulay said. Consequently, bagpipes have been
outlawed in Scotland at times. They have also
been banned from churches because they incite

people to dance, MacAulay said.

MacAulay, 31, was born and raised in Canada
but both his parents are Scottish. A member of an
Isle of Lewis family, which is famous for its
Gaelic musicians, MacAulay said he has been
playing the bagpipe since he was nine years old.

“I don’t really remember not playing,” Mac-
Aulay said. “It just feels so natural.”

MacAulay has been competing professionally
since he was 14 years old, and he performed in his
first paid recital when he was 16, MacKenzie said.
MacAulay has been teaching for more than ten
years.

Described by MacKenzie as a “gifted and
prolific” composer, MacAulay has recently pub-
lished a collection of music for the pipes.

MacAulay has been active in re-integrating the
highland bagpipe as a ‘‘folk’’ instrument. He has
also played in a variety of musical ensembles,
including jazz, traditional and rock n’roll, MacKen-
zie said.

Probably the most consistently successful
competitive solo piper of his generation, MacAulay
has won almost every top prize in Scotland and
North America several times, MacKenzie said.
MacAulay said he only practices four to five hours
a week.

“I have to be in the mood, and when I am, it’s
really hard to stop,” MacAulay said.

MacKenzie a University Scholar, organized
MacAulay’s visit to W&L through the Music
Department and the University Scholars program.
MacKenzie also lives in Ottawa, Canada.

“We all have healthy lungs," MacAulay said
when asked about the life-expectancy of bagpipers.
“Most bagpipers die of cirrhosis of the liver.

“Most pipers I know live life to the full. They
play hard and they party hard and they love their
music.”

Terry to defend VMI male-only policy

By Jason Kelley
Staff Reporter

The battle to save Virginia Mili-
tary Institute’s male-only admission
policy has drawn two possibly incom-
patible lawsuits from the state attor-
ney general and VMI’s private fund-
raising organization.

The two suits were ﬁled in re-
sponse to U.S. Attorney General Dick

V Thomburgh’s threat to sue the state
unless a plan to end the single-sex
policy is presented by Feb. 20

According to The Associated

Press, Deputy Attorney General R.
Claire Guthrie said the attorney gen-
eral’s suit represents VMI as an
element of a diverse system of state
institutions, while the VMI foundation
action casts the school as unique.

“Only one of these cases can go
forward. These are fundamentally
incompatible arguements and they
can’t both succeed," said State Attor-
ney General Mary Sue Terry.

Terry, Virginia’s first female
attorney general, filed a lawsuit on
Feb. 5 asking the U.S. District Court
in Richmond to declare VMI’s exclu-
sion of women as constitutional under
the Education Amendments of 1972
and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

“Admission of women to the
VMI undergraduate four-year program
is not necessary to provide equal
educational opportunities for women
within the Virginia system of higher
education,” the lawsuit said.

The suit filed by VMI Foundation
Inc. asked the U.S. District Court in
Richmond to rule that Thomburgh
lacks the authority to prosecute the

school over its admission policy.

The Justice Department says
VMI's policy violates the equal pro-
tection clause of the 14th Ammend—
ment to the Constitution and the Civil
Rights Act.

VMI recieved $11 rriillion in state
funds this year, almost half its $25
million budget, and all cadets are
enrolled in ROTC and therefore
recieve federal aid.

The Justice Department began
investigating the case in March 1989
when it recieved complaints from a
female northern Virginia high—school
junior who wanted to apply to VMI.

Former Governor Gerald Baliles
told the VMI board in May that the
admissions policy was illegal, and in-
cluded in his proposed 1990-1992
state budget $160,000 to provide
barracks for women at VMI.

Terry's suit said the Justice De-
partments finding “was made without
any inquiry into the state interest
served by VMI and without any visit
to VMI to review first-hand its pro-
gram of instruction."

The suit was filed after VMI’s
board of visitors unanimously decided
to uphold the school’s admission
policy.

Terry said that women who want
a military-school lifestyle can enroll
in the ROTC program at Virginia
Tech, also a state supported school.

Terry appeared Tuesday on the
NBC “Today Show,” and when
asked about the irony of her role as
a woman attorney general defending
the school’s exclusion of women, she
replied that the fact that those ironies
are present does not keep her from
doing her job.

Bitter cold weather in
for the center's grand

 

SBAR

from page 2

wealthy bystanders dressed in tuxe-
dos.

I found the whole thing extreme-
ly humorous and stopped laughing
only to answer the ringing telephone.
It was Leonora, whom I secretly
love. She told mejthat she was leav-
ing that evening for the African Con-
go. I had to tell her how I felt before
she left. “Leonora,” I said nervously,
“before you go I must tell you that
 that this is NOT a romance story
 it’s an article about my writers’
block.”

Since the “Three Stooges" epi-
sode was finished, I decided to go to
my favorite truck stop for breakfast.
I picked a table near the jukebox and
sat down. While contemplating the
menu, I noticed that a large, tobacco-
spitting, professional-wrestling-patron-
like, neanderthal-type man was staring
rudely at me. A couple of minutes
later, he stood up and walked over to
my table.

“Hey geek," he said, “how ’bout

givin’ me yur lunch money ’cuz if
you don’t I might bust yur eye
glasses in half." HOLD IT! This
isn't one of those “nerd getting
pushed around by a bully” stories,
it’s about a guy with writers’ block.
There wasn't any redneck staring at
me in the truck stop.

After finishing my meal, I tried
to pay with a check, but my writers’
block prevented me from doing so.
After some strenuous bartering, I paid
with a couple of gold teeth.

Climbing into my car, I noticed
that the passenger seat was occupied
by my editor. I knew what had to be
done. I slowly moved my hand to the
dagger under my seat. My blood-
thirsty hands were clutching the ivory
hilt when I remembered that this isn't
a revenge story (and that I don’t even
own a dagger with an ivory hilt).

“You know something,” my
editor said, “I think this article is
getting a little long for someone who
keeps mentioning his writers’ block."

 

GEARY

from page 2

truly say that with very few excep-
tions, they are trustworthy and of a
consistently high caliber. The value
of this trust carmot be underestimated.
When you leave Lexington, you will
encounter and have to deal with a lot
of unethical people. Decision-makers
look for people they trust, and will
recognize and highly value your sense
of honor. While you are in Lexing-
ton, you can do your part to nurture
and maintain these high ethical stan-
dards.

The Honor System, like any sys-
tem, can be improved. I personally
believe that it operates very well, and
that the EC has been doing an excel-
lent job this year. Although the EC
may be open to suggestions for im-
provement, they won’t respond well
to the destruction of a system which

has, not unlike the common law, been
refined over many years to reﬂect our
current value system. Constructive
change is desirable. However, change
must be rational and carefully consid-
ered, or it will degrade the system
rather than improve it. We encounter
plenty of examples of ill-considered
change in a variety of situations
including corporate restructuring to
the latest computer program that
crashed the AT&T telephone network
for half a day. We are all part of this
university system, and should work
within the current system to effect
any changes. If you feel that you
must scrap the system, then perhaps
Washington and Lee is not the school
for you.

Billy Geary is vice president of the
Student Bar Association.

  
    

McLaurin Hill, ’91, New Or-
leans, La. — “Trustworthiness,
honesty and dedication."

By Karsten Amlie

TALKBACK

 
   

What qualities do you look for in
an E.C. candidate?

Katie Duwel, ’91, York, S.C.
— “Experience, responsibility and
a nice hair-do.”

Lee Parker, ’92, Richmond,
Va. -“I never really thought
about it much. It’s just a popu-
larity contest anyway.”

Leann Jones, ’92, Columbia,
S.C. — “They should know what
they’re talking about and should
represent themselves and the
school well.”

Photos by Erik Bertlesen

 

Charles Edwards, ’92, Bal-
timore, Md. — “Someone who
will get more convictions.”

Ann Wylie, '91, Dallas Tex. -
“Someone with experience.”

 

  

NEWS

CHASE I

from page 1

The Ring-tum Phl,

EC

from page 1

Straub reported that the vehicle
continued north on Main Street to the
comer of Washington Street, where it
ran the red light and headed west.

Officer Mark Ramos joined the
chase on Washington Street. Ramos
and Straub cut the car off at the
comer of Lee Avenue, police said.

Both officers approached the car
with their guns drawn and ordered
the driver of the car to get out sever-
al times, according to police reports.
As Ramos neared the car, the driver
opened the door, striking Ramos’s
gun and causing it to fire into the air,
police said.

The officers then forcibly removed
the driver from the car, police said.
The stolen car, which had been left
in neutral, then rolled back into
Straub’s car but caused no damage,
said police.

Washington and Lee sophomore
Craig Lang lives in the Sigma Chi
house on the comer of Washington
Street and Lee Avenue. His second-
floor room overlooks the intersection
where police arrested Wills.

“Both [policemen]
were right in the
guy’s face.... I
thought they had
shot him in the
head.”
— Craig Lang

Lang said he saw both policemen
jump out of their cars, draw their
guns and then order the driver to get
out of the car.

“They didn't wait long," said
Lang, “Both [policemen] were right
in the guy’s face." When the gun
went off, Lang said, “I thought they
had shot him in the head.”

“It looked like the door hit the
gun and made it go off," said Lang.

Wills was arraigned Friday in
Rockbridge General District Court. A
preliminary hearing has been sched-
uled for Feb. 15 in Buena Vista
General District Court.

Dumas said the decision to hold
similar hearings this year is up to this
year’s committee, which will also
determine how students can submit
their suggestions for consideration.

In other business, the EC called
for a meeting of the Constitutional
Revisions Committee to review the
Student Body Constitution, which
covers aspects of student government
not honor related.

“The committee will try make it
a more cohesive and ﬂexible docu-
ment that isn’t so rigid and steeped
in ambiguity," Dumas said. Dumas
was speciﬁcally referring to sections
dealing with elections and the succes-
sion of officers. He said rules for the
timing of elections are too rigid
because there are no allowances for
year to year changes in the timing of
breaks. Ambiguity in the section con-
cerning succession became evident
last spring when the president-elect
withdrew from school, touching off a
heated debate concerning the succes-
sion of the elected officers, Dumas
said.

Oxford anyone?

The Virginia Program at Ox-
ford is a six week course, June
25 through Aug. 3, 1990. It is
taught in Oxford by British facul-
ty. W&L is one of six sponsoring
schools that nominate students for
the program. There is some fman-
cial aid available. For more infor-
mation and application forms
contact Prof. Pamela Simpson at
the Art Department in DuPont
Hall. The deadline is March 1.

Delta Gamma

Any woman interested in learning
more about the Delta Gamma
Women's Fraternity is invited to
a meeting of the Delta Gamma
Interest Group, Wednesday, Feb.
28 at 7 p.m. in the Women's
Center. During the meeting, sever-
al members of the group will
participate in an irifoimal installa-
tion ceremony, cornrriittirig therii-I
selves to rush Delta Gamma in
the fall. The status of the sorority
on campus will be explained, and
future DGIG activities will be
discussed. For more information,
or if you are interested but cannot
attend the meeting, call Tanya
Yoder, 464-3853.

Biking course

There will be a mountain
biking course offered for PE
credit this spring. It involves a
mountain bike weekend of riding
in and around the Monongahela

   

 

GENERAL NOTES

National Forrest on May 11, 12,
and 13. There will be a registra-
tion fee which covers transporta-
tion, overnight accommodations,
and meals: $135 if you have your
own bike, $165 for a bike rental.
For more information contact Rolf
Piranian (463-8685) or Cinda
Rankin (463-8687) in the Athletic
Office. Pre-registration is Feb. 26
through March 2.

Environment

The environmental section of
the Outing Club will meet on
Monday, March 5 at 5 p.m. in
room 113 of the University
Center. (Please note the time and
room change.)

Foreign study

Beaver College, one of the

g largest organizations sponsoring

programs of study in the United
Kingdom, will have a representa-
tive on campus at 2:30 p.m. on
Tuesday, Feb. 27 in Baker 106.
She will be happy to discuss her
institution’s study programs with
interested students.

Hiking trip

The Outing Club is sponsoring
a hike to Apple Orchard Falls on
Saturday, March 3 at. 10 a.m. Our
route will take us along the Appa-
lachian Trail, and there are five
views of the valley below. Wear
sturdy shoes or boots and warm

  

. Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

Résumés to slay your
competition!

. ""1 Mountain. Copy-”(jr_ap'5z‘cs

lli-Speed Copying - Desktop Publishing - FAXl- Design Graphics
463-I7I2 ° I25 W. Nelson, Lexington ° FAX 463-69”‘

LEE Ill

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

Right

‘$6

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

     
   

  

 
    
   

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

    
      
     
   
   
  

   

1-800-768-LEHI

  

. CCCCCCCCCC

Cassettes, LP’s, CD’s
We Buy Used CD ’s

Noon until 9 p.m.
Monday through Saturday
11 S. Randolph St., Lexington
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

Robby Jones

703/463-2022

Standard 10% Discount 11 W, Nétscn st,

With Student LI). Lexington, Va, 24450
iioooooooooooooffffii ed

  
  

 }

clothing; bring along water, rain
protection, and a lunch. Please
sign up in advance outside Baker
109; the hike leaves from Baker
109 as well. Transportation is
provided. Call Tim Clark (464-
4448) for more information.

Registration

Course registration for spring
term will be available in the
registrar's office on Monday, Feb.
26. They are due with required
signatures by March 2. The
registrar's office is open Monday
through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30
p.m.

Ranger needed

Douthat State Park is now
accepting applications for the
position of Maintenance Ranger
for Spring and Summer 1990.
Those interested in applying can
mail in a standard Virginia
Employment Application, or bring
a completed application to the
park office at this address:
Douthat State Park, Rt. 1, Box
212, Millboro, VA 24460. Ap-
plications are available at the park
office or may be picked up at any
Virginia Employment Commission
Office. Applicants will be
screened and interviews will be
held during the spring. Any ques-
tions can be answered by calling
the Douthat State Park at (703)
862-7200 Monday through Friday.
The Division of State Parks and
Douthat State Park are an equal
opportunity employer.

IIESERVE OFFICERS’

February 15, 1990

Outdoor drama companies
to hold auditions in March

From News Releases

Thirteen outdoor historical drama
companies will be auditioning per-
formers and technicians for summer
jobs March 24 at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

The auditions, sponsored by the
UNC Institute of Outdoor Drama, are
open to anyone 18 years or older
with previous theater training or
experience.

From Cry of the Wild Ram on
Kodiak Island, Alaska, to The Lost
Colony on Roanoke Island, these
original outdoor dramas are based on
actual events and performed where
they took place. More than 75 pro-
ductions nationwide employ some
3,000 actors, singers, dancers and

. technicians each summer.

The Institute of Outdoor Drama
sponsors the only combined auditions
in the country designed to bring

outdoor historical dramas and per-
formers and technicians together in a
single location, said Judy Via, audi-
tions coordinator.

“Performers and technicians at-
tending the auditions should be pre-
pared for a busy day, beginning with
registration at 7:30 am. and ending
with callbacks late that afternoon,”
Via said.

“Actors present a one-minute
prepared monologue and may offer
another at callback interviews,” she
said. “Singers are asked to prepare
one song. Dancers will be led
through warm-up, assorted combina-
tions and across-the-floor routines
using ballet, modern and folk chor-
eography. Technicians interviews will
take place during the aftemoon.”

Outdoor theater offers performers
and technicians the opportunity to use
and expand their skills in an uncon-
ventional environment, while being a
part of a large cast, long-run produc-

Former cadets given

 

By Pat Lopes
Assignment Editor

Two former Virginia Military
Institute cadets were sentenced Jan.
29 to five years in prison and the
father of one of the cadets was sen-
tenced to eight years and one month
for their roles in a $4.4 million ar-
mored car robbery 14 months ago in
Trenton, N.J.

Robert Jasinski, 51, of Boonton,
N.J., received a longer sentence be-
cause he coerced his son, William,
22, and fellow cadet Bryan Smals,
21, of Columbus, Ohio, into par-
ticiapting in the heist, said U.S. Dis-
trict Judge Garrett Brown, according
to an Associated Press story.

Authorities said the two cadets
were heavily armed and posing as
police officers on Dec. 22, 1988,
when they hijacked a truck from the
Eizabeth—based Coin Depot Armored
Car Corp.

The cadets held two guards at gun
point as they unloaded the truck and
then escaped in a getaway car driven
by the elder Jasinski.

After being questioned by FBI

officers a month after the robbery,
the elder Jasinski confessed to the
robbery. He then lead agents to a
home in Parisppany, NJ. where most
of the money was hidden in an attic.

The day after the elder Jasinski’s
arrest, FBI agents questioned the
younger Jasinski and Smals in Lex-
ington and they also confessed. The
two cadets resigned from VMI the
following day.

In addition to handing down the
sentences, Judge Brown ruled the
three men and a fourtli accomplice,
Ronald H. Strsriu, 55, of Union,
N.J., must pay restitution to cover the
$261,015 not received from the rob-
bery. Stromp, who stood by as a
look-out during the robbery, pleaded
guilty and will be sentenced on Tues-
day.

According to Brown, sentencing
of the two young men was complicat-
ed because authorities needed to
communicate the severity of the
crime but at the same time had to
take into consideration that the cadets
were doniineered by Robert Jasinski.

“Mercy must be balanced with
the concerns of society and the nature
of the crime,” said Brown as he

tion provides invaluable experience.
And the outdoor amphitheater, with
its requirements of vocal and physical
projection, challenges the performer
trained in traditional theater to dis-
cover new limits.

Employment in an outdoor drama
requires a nine- to 12-week commit-
ment, including three weeks of re-
hearsal and an eight- to ten-week
session. Companies may offer addi-
tional productions, experimental
theater and workshops, children's
theater productions and college credit
programs. Some of the major com-
panies offer subsidized or paid hous-
ing, or will help members find hous-
mg.

Applications must be received by
Monday, March 19. To request ap-
plication materials, send a self-ad-
dressed, stamped envelope to: Audi-
tions Coordinator, Institute of Outdoor
Drama. CB# 3240, NCNB Plaza,
UNC, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3240.

five years

sentenced the two former cadets.
“They were both Vulnerable but they
did know that what they were doing
was wrong.”

Judge Brown also hit on the for-
mer cadets’ military education, saying
they had “substantial rriilitary training
and farnilialarity of firearms and used
they to perpetuate this crime."

According to William Jasinski’s
attorney Bruce Goldstein, the elder
Jasinski is a violent authoritarian,
preoccupied with guns and the-rni1i-
tary. Robert Jasinski’s attorney, Ed-
ward Dauber, said William was not
motivated by the millions of dollars

in the armored truck as much as his
wantin “to see what could be

8
done.”

Goldstein said Robert Jasinski
often jabbed pressure points on his
son’s body and commanded: “You
will do what I want you to do.”
Before sentencing, the elder Jasinski
asked the court to give his son and
his son's friend a lighter sentence.

“I ask mercy for the boys,” Ja-
sinski said. “They followed me as
the leader in the true military fashion
to which they were trained.”

Buckle up

Have a speedy, but safe, drive to
points south this Spring Break

TRAINING CORPS

START rm IMPRESSIE RESUME
min A COLLEGE ELECTIVE.

Register Now For MS1 01 & 1 02. Contact Cpt. Ramos, 463-8485

Take an introductory course from Army ROTC.
With no obligation. You'll begin to acquire the
confidence, self-discipline, decisiveness, and
leadership skills sought by employers of college
graduates. And you'll learn how you can place
"Army Officer" on your resume when you

graduate.

Set a course for success this term. Register
now for an Army ROTC elective.

‘I'll! SMIITIST COLLEGE CDIIISI YOII CAI TAKE.

‘i

.‘u .-s-4

‘Y-SJ -’~r

/1 side vr—+-J-4

 
 

  

ily Chris Swann
Staff Reporter

In a recent issue of Rolling Stone,
Jack Bruce, the bassist and co-
founder of the Sixties’ supergroup

ream, had this to say about former
band member Eric Clapton; “I notice
Eric’s new album is called Journey-
inan. I don't buy that.”
-1 Obviously he hasn’t bought the
album; otherwise he would be swal-
llowing his foot. A "joumeyman" is
? skilled and reliable worker or per-
ormer; it also implies a person who
has undergone a long journey of one
ind or another.

Eric Clapton, the blues guitarist
who has done so much to reshape the
face of modern rock and roll, is a
‘oumeyman in each sense of the
‘World. His theory of blues guitar
and his creativity in using that theory,
along with his nearly twenty-ﬁve year

lgong musical career, guarantee that .11

title. The album Journeyman, his
best in ﬁve years, carries on the
Clapton tradition of blues—oriented

rock, returning to the guitar basics 5

found in Clapton hallmarks such as
;‘Cocaine,” “Layla,” and “Sunshine
Of Your Love” while for the most
part successfully integrating the syn-
thesized music of modern rock.

Apart from original guitar work
‘on Roger Waters’ 1984 album The
Pros and Cons of Hitch Hiking and
the film scores for Lethal Weapon
and Lethal Weapon 1], Clapton’s
music seemed to have lost some of
its original fire and blues in his al-
bums Behind The Sun and August as
he moved into heavily synthesizer-
driented rock, using his guitar as little
more that a backup piece. One of
the reasons for that change was Phil
(Collins, who co-produced Behind The
Sun in 1985 and produced the 1986
August.
v. While these albums provided Top
40 hits like “It’s In The Way That
You Use It," “Forever Man,” and
‘(Miss You,” Clapton’s guitar seemed
drowned out at times by drum
fnachines and keyboards. On Jour-
aeyman, Collins is where he belongs,
behind a drum set, while producer
Russ Titelman lets Clapton’s guitar
t ke center stage.

Journeyman has an astonishingly

   

.W&LlFE

wide variety of songs, from the gos-
pel-like “Running On Faith” to the
blues-club sound of “Hard Times” to
the radio-oriented “No Alibis" and
“Pretending.” Clapton, while stead-
fastly playing blues guitar, has proven
able to adapt several different types
of music to his playing style, another
way of saying that Clapton is versa-
tile in what he can play. Yes, there
are drum machines and keyboards,
but Clapton’s guitarwork is the cen-
terpiece around which the rest of the
album is built.

“Pretending,” the first single off
the album, is a hard—hitting combina-
tion of blues "wah" guitar, keyboards

4

   

4
1/‘

 

5 or new ﬁtting of contacts

PRESCRIPTION
. SUNGLASSES!

Prepare for spring break with a free pair of sunglasses, made in your distance
prescription, when you purchase any complete pair of glasses (frame and lenses)
(both lenses). Some restrictions apply. Ask for details.

’ 5PRII\/6 
1   //IKE /£0M£./

' 4 Drs. Blu eman_,
’ Blaclrstndi & Associates

OPTOMETRISTS, P. C.
t Lexington: Lexington—Buena Vista Shopping Center 112 Walker St.

463-1600

Expires April 1, 1990.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 15, 1990

Journeyman: Clapton’s best in five years

and drum machine.

“Bad Love” features Phil Collins
on drums and backup vocals with
Clapton playing at least two different
styles of guitar with help from guitar-
ist Phil Palmer.

“Running On Faith” returns to
the old slide acoustic guitar featured
on classics like “Let It Grow” and
found elsewhere only recently on his
Roger Waters work.

“Hound Dog,” the Elvis Presley
hit written in 1956, has blues guitarist
Robert Cray playing off on Clapton’s
own guitar, creating a modern, play-
ful version of this rock classic.

The romantically haunting “Lead

{ERIC CLAPTON-JOURNEYMAN 

   
 

Me On” echoes somewhat the man’s

most romantic work, ‘ ‘Wonderful
Tonight’ ’ from the 1977 album
S Iowhand. ‘

“Before You Accuse Me” gives
Clapton and Cray a chance to play
serious blues with accompanying
piano, organ-like synthesizer and hard
stomping drums.

Clapton also has such talents as
George Harrison, Daryl Hall, Chaka
Khan and the Reverend Timothy
Wright Washington Temple Concert
Choir lending musical assistance as
well as backup and harmonizing
vocals.

Critics of Journeyman will point

out that Clapton has co—written only
two out of twelve songs on the al-
bum. This, however, helps to justify
Clapton’s new title of journeyman.
Lately, especially with the release of
his compilation work Crossroads, he
has been said to be at a musical
crossroads in his career, with many
different avenues to choose from, and
here he takes advantage of those
choices.

Clapton has picked a variety of
songs written for the most part in the
mid-80's, but also many from the
past. “Hard Times" was written by
none other than Ray Charles in 1961,
and “Hound Dog” and “Before You

Accuse Me” were originally written
in 1956 and ’57, respectively.

Clapton has applied his skill as a
musical journeyman to several differ-
ent songs from several different peri-
ods in rock, making them unique
with his own blues—oriented style in
today’s world of techno-pop rock.

While Journeyman is not a classic
such as Slowhand and at best recalls
parts of Eric Clapton’s rock classics
from Cream, Blind Faith and his own
earlier solo career without recreating
them, it is a soulful and creative step
in the right direction for the man
internationally known as the Best
Guitarist in Rock.

Custis Society

is open

By Alisann McGloln
Staff Reporter

Two women’s groups, one old
and one new, are working to provide
non-sorority activites for Washington
and Lee women.

A new social organization at
Washington and Lee, the Custis Soci-
ety, is open to all women, not just
sorority members, according to the
group’s president.

“The eating club was conceived
to be purely social," said Mary
Hampson.

The society, which was modeled
after Princeton University's eating
clubs, was set up for the sole purpose
of meeting girls and eating, Hampson
said.

This goal should be achieved on
Wednesday, February 28th, when the
Custis Society sponsors an ice cream
social. "Sundaes, Sundaes, Sundaes!"
will welcome all W&L women- greek
or non-greek. Hampson also said a
dinner following break is in the
works.

Although Hampson and other
W&L women were against bringing
sororities to Washington and Lee, her
attitude now, even with her own
choice of non-affiliation, is one of

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Sat. 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

31 S.MninSt.,IAxington

26 South Main Street
Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.
Lexington, Va. 244502523
(703) 463-9338

’\

ﬂllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllHllllllllIllIllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIE

 

Lexington Lighting

We have Study Lamps, Table Lamps, and Floor Lamps.
Come by!

   
     
     
   
     
  
       
   
        
     
   
  
 

George’s
Hairstylist

_l36 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett’s

463-3975
We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell

Open Evenings
Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

Wanted: Zookeepers
Must be earning (or have earned) degree in animal related field,
and have experience in working with animals.

We have full-time positions available from
8 a.m.-5 p.m. $4.00/hr

Call Debbie at The Natural Bridge Zoo
291-2420

463-3355

Arway Kirby

  

  

IllllllllllIIIIIIIIIlllllllIIllIIIlllllllIllIllIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllIl||l|||||ll|||||||lIlllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllIIlllllllllllllllliIIllIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

A Dialogue With
W&L Women

A panel and group discussion on what
it is like to be a woman at W&L. Sponsored
by the Rockbridge Valley Chapter of the
National Organization for Women.
7:30 p.m. , Feb. 27th, Arlington Center, Student Center

mmmnInnmmuIuulumnmmmmIIImmnmmmmummmmmmimmmmmnmmnummuumnmmmmuuunnnnumuumuuunuunmmun

to all

acceptance, she said.

“I think there is a lot of enjoy-
ment in being independent. I person-
ally think the sorority issue is no
longer present. They're here and we
should welcome them,” she said.

While the eating club was started
last year at about the same time
sororities began their colonization,
Trident was a functioning women’s
organization long before sororities
colonized.

A committee of about six women,
some affiliated and some not, is
working to make “Confetti’s,” that
group’s major social event, a reality
again this year.

Alicia Haye, working in conjunc-
tion with Dean Ann Schroer-Lamont,
is hoping to receive some money
from the Executive Committee for a
budget to plan the activities. The cost
of the weekend itself should be cov-
ered by ticket sales, Haye said.

The committee is aiming at May
25-26 for the weekend celebration.
As in years past, there will be a
speaker and banquet for W&L wom-
en on Friday night and a band Satur-
day afternoon at Zollman’s Pavilion.
On Saturday night, there will be a
band party in the area between the
University Library and the Woods
Creek Apartments.

CLASSIFIED

Personals

If you see Lee Butterﬁeld, teH
him that someone at UVa loves
him.

For Sale

Old Town Canoe, 15 ft. solo,
dark green, wood trim, excellent
condition, $450. Call 463-2557
after 5 p.m.

Help Wanted

Free-Spring Break-FREE
Promote and escort our Daytona
Trip, Good Pay and Fun. Call
(CMI) Campus Marketing,
1-800-423-5264

250-1000 Summer Camp

Positions Available
Staff Referral Services provides
a network of camps, now hiring,
from the "Keys" to Wise.-Minn.
One application reaches all
camps via master computer.
Applications at the Carerer De-
velopment and Placement Of-
fice.

FOUND: One large
silver hoop earing
near Baker Dorm.

[ Call 464-3759

  

illlllllllllllllllllllllll||ll||||||||l|Il|||l|||l|||IIIIIIIIilllliIIllIllIllII||lll||llIlllllllIllllllllllllllllllll?

 

 

 
 

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

Junior forward Craig Hatfield was
lying on the ground under the basket,
ﬂat on his back, with his hands over
his face.

That's all anyone really needed to
see to get the story of the Washing-
ton and Lee-Roanoke basketball game
last Saturday night in Salem, Va.
W&L had come back from a 22-
point second half deficit to lead by
one point late only to lose 86-83.

In the first half, W&L shot just
29 percent to Roanoke’s 63 percent.
Roanoke led 48-27 at the half.

Said W&L head coach Verne
Canfield of the team's first half per-
formance, “It is just totally inexcus-
able for a team to stand around for
an entire half, and that's what we
did, we stood around for an entire
half. We can‘t beat anyone by play-
ing just one half of basketball."

In the second half, the Generals
received a wake-up call and came out
playing like gangbusters. After Betts
converted a three-point play with
19:19 to play, and Larry Rose was
called for a technical foul (grabbing
the rim without the ball) with 19:04
to go, W&L went to work down 51-
29.

Hatﬁeld went to work on the
boards and inside on 6-8- Derek Otten
for nine points in the next four min-
utes, and when junior forward Ed
Hart, seeing his first action since Jan.
5, followed a Hatfield miss at the
14:00 mark, the Generals had com-
pleted a 15-0 run to cut the lead to
seven at 51-44.

Pendleton then scored six of the
next 10 Roanoke points to put the
lead back at 11, 61-50 with 9:27 to
play, and Roanoke had weathered the
first W&L run.

Then Pat Gallavan exploded from
three point land for W&L. The 6-4
junior hit two and Holton one to
bring the lead down to 63-59 with

SPORTS
W&L splits two in O

7:54 to go. At this point tempers
ﬂared, and junior point guard Jim
Casey was ejected for hitting Pend-
leton with the ball from across the
court after things had calmed down.

Roanoke hit three free throws and
got a basket by Lineburg for a five-
point play. Gallavan answered for the
Generals with another three point
basket from 23-feet out to cut the
lead to 68-62.

Two straight baskets by Hart cut
the lead to four at 70-66 with 6:25 to
go, but Roanoke extended the lead
back to 76-68 on a basket by Rose.
After a basket by junior center Chris
Jacobs, Gallavan loaded his three-
point gun one more time.

A bomb with 3:30 to go brought
the Generals within three, and an old-
fasliioned three-point play seconds
later tied the game at 76, and W&L
had erased a 22-point deficit.

Roanoke led 82-79 after a basket
by Betts, but Hatﬁeld hit two foul
shots to make it 82-81, and when
Hart tipped in a miss 30 seconds
later, W&L led 83-82 with 1:16 to
go.

Junior center Chris Jacobs rriissed
the front end of a one-and-one that
could have extended the lead to three,
and Pendleton was fouled as he
leaned into Holton with 20 seconds
left, and gave Roanoke the lead with
two free throws. Without using a
time out, the Generals managed to
get a shot opportunity for Jacobs, but
his short hook-shot rolled off, Betts
was fouled with five seconds left.

Betts converted both, and junior
captain Mike Holton’s 35-foot prayer
was not answered. His shot hit the
backboard, the front rim and fell of,
and with that Hatﬁeld fell to the
floor.

For the night, Gallavan led all
scorers with a career high 25 points,
including five of five from three
point range in the second half. Hat-
field had l7 points and 12 rebounds.
Hart scored nine points and grabbed
four rebounds in his first game back

The Ring-tum Phl, February 15, 1990

in 12 rriinutes.

Said Carifield, “If we play two
halves like we are capable of playing,
there is absolutely no one in the
conference who can beat us. Even in
the second half we didn't play like
we are totally capable of playing. We
got some people hot and we started
playing defense.

“The guys get credit from coming
back from 21 points down. That’s
tough to do, but we shouldn’t have
been 21 points down in the first
place.” ,

On Tuesday, Hart proved he was
back to stay in the final regular-sea-
son ODAC game for the Generals.

Coming off the bench, Hart took
the Generals from 6-5 down to 15-6
up by starting a 10-0 run that span-
ned two minutes with six straight
points.

The Royals responded with an 8-
2 run of their own sparked by
Vaughn Troyer’s six straight points,
but the Generals answered with a 13-
3 run to lead 30-17, capped by Hart's
stick-back on Gallavan’s missed free
throw. At the half, W&L led 37-26
behind 14 points from Hart and seven
from Jacobs.

When Jacobs scored with 19:05 to
play, W&L had it’s» biggest lead of
the night at 40-26. From there the
Royals started to work their way
back into the game.

Said Hart, “For the first half of
the game, we were controlling things.
We were working our offense through
and playing tough defense. And then
we just started to stand and let them
do what they wanted.”

Eastern Mennonite closed to 54-
49 with 9:43 to play on a three-point
play from John Leonard. With 9:01
to play, Casey extended the lead back
to 58-50 for the Generals, but the
Royals would not go away.

When Troyer scored with 5:44 to
play, Eastern Mennonite led 64-60.
They led 72-67 when Jeff Gingerich
made two free throws with 2:19 to
play.

Wrestling season closes

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee wrestling
team ended its 2-3 season with a 30-
18 loss to a tough Longwood College
team Wednesday night in Doremus
Gymnasium.

The Generals jumped out to an
early 6-0 lead as freshman Rich Paini
needed just 40 seconds to record a
118-pound pin. Paini ended his first
season with a very respectable 7-4
mark.

But from that point, Longwood
asserted itself, claiming four of the
next ﬁve matches.

Junior co-captain Larry Pilkey, 13-
11, could not overcome Sean House,
losing to him 11-6, in the 126-pound
b0uL

Freshman Doug Lamb finished his
year with a 3-9 mark as he dropped
an 8-0 decision.

Senior co-captain Lee Garlove,
wrestling at 142, improved his record
to 441 winning by forfeit propelling
the Generals to a 12-7 lead.

Freshman Cary Potts, 2-12 on the
season, fought a tough 6:26, before
being pinned at 150-pounds.

Freshman Ryland Scott lost a 10-
4 decision as the Generals fell behind
16-12. This year, Scott is 6-12-1 at
158 pounds.

Sophomore Peer Soderberg, 12-9,

 

Clalre Dudley

 

oppogotQQo*“

won his 167 pound match by forfeit.

With the Generals ahead 18-16,
Bill Avery, 0-3, could not fight off
his 177-pound opponent and lasted
2:38 before being pinned.

Freshman Andrew Tucker, 0-7,
wrestled up a weight class to 190-
pounds and was overpowered. He
held on for 3:42 before being beaten
by technical fall, thereby securing the
match for Longwood.

Freshman heavyweight John Conk-
ling dropped an emotional 10-7 deci-
sion and finished the year 2-13
against stiff competition.

Head coach Gary Franke called
the match “a nice performance,” but
was disappointed a few more individ-
uals couldn't have turned their deci-
sion around.

The team season is over but four
wrestlers will continue on and com-
pete at the NCAA Division III East-
ern Regionals at Gallaudet College in
Washington D.C.

Pilkey, Garlove, Scott, and Soder-
berg will represent W&L.

Although any wrestler could have
participated, Franke sent four of his
top season performers.

This past weekend, W&L com-
peted in the Virginia College Division
Championships. While only placing
fifth in as many teams, the Generals
had some strong individual perform-
ances.

Pilkey and Soderberg both wres-
tled their way to the finals before
falling. Conkling finished third in the
heavyweight division and Scott grab-
bed fourth at 158.

Franke said he was, “encouraged
with some youngsters even though it
didn't help the team performance."
Virginia State won the championship

followed by Longwood, Newport 
News Apprentice, Norfolk State, and -

W&L.

In the 126-final, Pilkey could not it

overcome his Longwood nemesis,
Sean House, losing by a tough 8-6
score. Franke commented, “I
thought Pilkey did a real nice job and
Peer wrestled well to get to the fi-
nals. All in all, it was about as ex-

pected. We had a chance to do a»

little better, but I was pleased with
our performance.”

Looking back on the tearn’s sea-
son, Franke will remember the 1989-
90 season as an inexperienced club
loaded with freshmen who gained
valuable experience.

Said Franke, “We learned a lot
and gained experience through
matches and gained a lot of technical
experience. Hopefully it will benefit
them later.”

 

art returns

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
    
 
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

Junior Craig Hatfield powers home two points over acrowd of Mary Washington defenders in last Thursday’s
game. The Generals clipped the Eagles wings 84-69 In the last home game of the regular season. Staff photoy

by Chris Leiphart.

Then Gallavan tuned up his three
point weapon again. His shot bounced
high off the back rim and fell back

   
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
   
    

through with 1:59 to play, keeping
the Generals out of deep trouble.
Still. with seven seconds to play, the

 ..w,»ov.~*'»“*“‘”’“” ' V‘

l

Generals needed two free throws by

El Please see EMC page ‘J

l

‘6

9

V

Sophomore Peer Soderberg

Florida frosh continue to shine in defeat

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee women's
swimming team is enjoying a well-
deserved ten-day break from competi-
tion.

W&L finished strongly against
Mary Washington last Saturday, with
the opponent scoring a victory of just
twelve points. According to head
coach Page Remillard, even such a
small difference as twelve points
obscures the truth about W&L’s
performance.

“I don’t think I've ever seen a

FALL & WINTER MERCHANDISE
ON SALE NOW
New Spring items arriving daily

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)463-5988

 

closer meet,” said Remillard. “For
example, there were two ties, and
some of our times were fewer than
seven one-hundredths of a second
apart from Mary Washington’s. The
twelve-point win looks like a blow-
out compared to what happened.”

Four W&L women captured first
place times. Junior Sharon Coleman
and sophomore Jodi Herring finished
first in the 100-butterﬂy and 1650-
freestyle events, respectively.

Florida freshman Claire Dudley
and Stephanie Sauers continue to
bring sunshine into Remillard’s life.
Each finished with two victories
apiece. Dudley placed first in the

 
  
   

  

CAMPUS
MINISTRY

St. Patrick’s Church
Ash Wednesday, Feb. 28

Mass Schedule:
12:15 p.m.
5:15 p.m.

Have A Happy

And Safe Break.’

200-freestyle and 100-breaststroke
events, and Sauers won both the 50-
and 100-freestyle races.

Remillard was quick to praise
these four women, but he also com-
mented on the efforts of two other
swimmers, junior Rachelle Nock and
senior Kris Amoroso.

Nock turned in excellent swims
and that Amoroso has exhibited the
best races of her four years.

“Kris is coming into form and
has a chance to go to the Nationals.
She has created heightened optimism
about her potential to qualify in the
400 medley relay — that's our goal.

‘‘I can think of no more fitting

WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION
OR BIG SCREEN TV PLUS
RAISE UP TO $1.400 IN JUST
10 DAYS!

Objective: Fundraiser
Commitment: Minimal
Money: Raise $1,400
Cost: Zero lnvestement

Campus organizations, clubs, frats,
sororities call OCMC at l(800)
932-0528 I l(800) 950-8472 ext.
10

reward for Kris than winning the 400
medley. As our only senior, we want
her to be a part of that. She repre-
sents four years of hard work during
which she has improved sigriificant—
ly,” said Remillard.

From February 22-24, W&L will 3 I

compete in the combined Atlantic
States and Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships. For the
women, the emphasis will be on the
ODACs, although they are hoping to
finish second in the Atlantic States.
The women have held the ODAC
championship title for the past two
years and are looking to repeat that

Y‘

is in complete control of a match in the W&L Invitational. Soderberg will be one
of four W&L wrestlers to participate in the NCAA Eastern Regional in March. File photo by W. Patrick Hinely.
5

Stephanie Sauers

 
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
     
  
 

Urziverzcity

honor.
1st Floor Reid Hall

Come to your Printing Center for:

- FLYERS & POSTERS
- Copying 8. printing
.- Programs

- Newsletters

NGC Nl

463-8448

- Custom RESUMES & letters
- Transparencies

- Brochures & Booklets

- Scanning

The Printing Center has added a Macintosh llx, Scanner, and Laser-
Writer II to its service. The Macintosh will read MS-DOS disks. We can
add scanned images to add to your posters or llyers. Stop by and pick
up a pamphlet about this equlpment's capabilities.

 

 

 

E‘

5

§—

-->:

4;, * § 3

The Ring-tum Phi, February 15, 1990

 

Swimmers

crawl past

Mary Washington by
their swimming caps

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men’s
swimming team won its final dual
meet of the season by defeating Mary
Washington College, 101-98, on
Saturday.

“Our men swam well,” said head
coach Page Remillard. “I'm very
pleased with our effort. I think we’re
right where we want to be.”

The men recorded their sixth
straight victory over the Eagles as
Saturday's narrow victory in on the
road pushed the Generals’ season
record to 8-5.

“They (the men) have done a
really good job to finish the dual
meet season at 8-5 with only eight
guys,” said Remillard.

Saturday’s win was “a team ef-
fort. There was not really a key
swim,” Remillard said, although he
noted that W&L’s victory in the 400-
yard freestyle relay provided the
three-point margin of victory. The
relay team, composed of sophomores
Jay Smith, Doug Brown, Chip Nord-
hoff and junior Jim Dunleavy, won
the event by ﬁnishing with a time of
3:18.17

Individually, Smith and Nordhoff
each registered to double victories.

Smith’s unbeaten streak now
stands at 24 after winning the 50-
and 100—yard freestyle events (21.83
and 48.45, respectively).

Nordhoff finished the 200-yard
freestyle in 1:48.89 and won the 200-
yard backstroke with a time of
2:06.31.

Also earning ﬁrst-place points for
the Generals were Dunleavy in the
1,650-yard freestyle event (17:17.03),
sophomore Stuart Towns in the 200-
yard individual medley (2:04.11) and
Brown in the 500-yard freestyle
(4:56.35).

)‘()1

The remainder of the Generals’
points were gained through second-
place finishes.

Brown placed second in the 200-
yard freestyle with a time of 1:49.20,
Towns in the 200-yard backstroke
(2:08.06), Dunleavy in the 500-yard
freestyle (5:02.34) and freshman
Andrew Pearson in the 100-yard
freestyle (50.62).

“It (the meet) was a numbers
game,” Remillard said. “They (Mary
Washington) picked up the points that
were lingering out there,” indicating
that the Eagles collected points in
each event they entered.

“We ran the best lineup we could
and fortunately we were successful,”
Remillard added.

The Generals will compete in the
Atlantic States Conference champion-
ships at Hollins College next week-
end. W&L is the two-time defending
champions of the Atlantic States, but
Remillard said that the team’s lack of
depth will hurt its chances for anoth-
er championship this season.

“It would be incredible if we
could win,” said Remillard said.
“But it will be depth that brings in
the points.”

Mary Washington, Radford and
UNC-Charlotte will also swim in the
championships.

“The whole year we’ve been
planning for these three days. The
goal is to swim faster than you ever
have in your life (in order to qualify
for the national championships),”
Remillard said.

“We’ve been working hard for
several months and we’re swimming
fatigued,” Remillard continued.
“Now we’ll get some good rest to
feel stronger and gain a physiological
beneﬁt.

“We’re after some school records
and qualifying times. We’re not done
yet.”

(MOM()j()j()j()j()j()j()-()j()-()j('

Pam says read the

l..,-.,.EP..,.5...'-.'l-T,’B

lement

()j()-()j()j()j()j()

it
C
A

From W&L Sports Information

The Washington and Lee
women's track team set two
school records and the men’s
team continued to improve their
times in preparation for the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Championships as the two squads
competed at the Virginia Tech
All-Comers Meet on Saturday.

Senior co-captain Beth Stutz-
marm set a new mark of 8.86
seconds in the 55-meter hurdles,
and junior Laura Dodge estab-
lished a new W&L record for the
3,000 meters with a time of

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

12:05.

The men also got some strong
performances, most notable were
junior Carl Gilbert with a 51.7 in
the 400 meters and, senior Wes
Boyd with a personal best of 6.33
in the 60 meters and the mile
relay team of Boyd, Gilbert, se-
nior Scott Williams and freshman
David Phillips, which lowered its
time to 3231.5.

The men now have a weekend
off as they begin preparations for
the ODAC Indoor Championships
at Lynchburg on Feb. 24. The
Generals will be shooting for their
seventh consecutive indoor title.

Generals get

their Hart

back in time for tourney

Ed Hart

 
By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Since Jan. 5, the Washington and
Lee basketball team had been without
one of its leading performers, 6-5
junior forward Ed Hart.

Last Saturday against Roanoke
College, Hart returned to action in
the Generals 86-83 loss.

C.E. Hardy Jeweler

35 S. Main Street
463-4121

“Relativel

C

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
    

Save Up To $80
on Gold Rings

It doesn’t take an
Einstein to ﬁgure

out now’s the time

to buy your college
ring. Choose a ring
from a company with a
real genius for designing

ﬂ

hottest-looking styles for

the

RTC/l

speakin
ArtCarved has ,,
best deal on gold.

    

RVED

9

both men and women.
What’s more, your

ArtCarved gold ring
is so superbly
crafted it’s protected
by a Full Lifetime
Warranty Now’s the
time to buy your
college ring. Ask how
you can save on gold
accessories, too.

COLLEGE JEWELRY 5
§
§

Bookstore Feb. 26-28 10-3 6
Location Date Time Deposit Required

Payment Plans Available -  

 

Hart wasted little time in remind-
ing everyone how valuable his pres-
ence is on the court. When he en-
tered the game at the beginning of
the second half, the team seemed to
step their level of play up two
notches. Certainly no coincidence that
it happened when Hart returned to
action.

The team had been playing like it
was missing an important link in its
chain, and Hart returned to solidify
that chain just in time for the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference next
week. Hart scored a season-high 22
points in Tuesday’s win over Eastern
Mennonite on eight-of-twelve shoot-
ing. Not bad for someone who hasn't
seen game action for six weeks.

The numbers also show how
important Hart is to the team. Here is
a look at some vital statistics from
the games in which Hart has played
and games which he has not played:

with without

Games: 10 24

FG%: .469 .453
Opp. FG%: .450 .495
FT%: .722 .703
‘Points: 84.4 74.3
Opp. points: 76.1 74.7
Rebounds: 40.0 33.1
Opp. reb.: 36.4 34.9
Assists: 11.4 9.3

record: 7-3 7-7

Aerobics 0 Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

 

Call for appointment
All Students Welcome

EMC

from page 6

Holton to send the game in to over-
time at 74.

Hart then scored six of his season-
high 22 in the overtime while taking
a charge and picking up a loose ball
to lead the Generals to an 85-80 win.
In the overtime, the Generals hit nine
of 12 free throws to secure the win.

Jacobs added 20 points for the
Generals, who improved to 14-10 and
more importantly 8-8 in the confer-
ence. It was W&L’s first ODAC
win since Jan. 16, against the same
Eastern Mennonite team.

Last Thursday night W&L closed
out its home season with an 84-69
win over Mary Washington.

The Generals never trailed as they
jumped out to a 13-2 lead sparked by
ﬁve points each from Jacobs and
Gallavan. W&L led 34-22 before
Mary Washington went on an 114
run to close the halftime deﬁcit to
38-33 behind five points from Billy
Sigler.

The most exciting moment of the
first half came with 8:20 to go when
sophomore Courtney Penn got ahead
of the pack and brought down the

house with his first college dunk to
give W&L a 25-14 lead.

In the second half, Mary Washing-
ton got as close as 49-45, but W&L
pulled away for the win. Jacobs led
all scorers with 23 points and 12
rebounds and classmate Scotr Alrutz
contributed without scoring. He grab-
bed seven rebounds, handed out four
assists and made two steals coming
off the bench.

Said Hart, “I know that we’re not
playing great right now, but it seems
that this season is kind of the reverse
of the last few. In the past, we’ve
fallen apart in February and this year
it happened a month earlier. Maybe
we’re starting to peak now going into
the [ODAC] toumament."

The tournament will start next
Tuesday night. The site and opponent
is still to be determined. Any tie will
be broken by the ODAC tiebrcaker
system, which awards points for wins

over each team, with the higher seed-

ed teams worth the highest amount of
points.

BOX SCORES

Washington and Lee (83)

Holton 2-7 2-4 8, Casey 1-3 1-2 4, Jacobs 5-
12 3-5 13, Hatﬁeld 6-11 5-6 17, Gallavan 8-12 3-
3 25, Alrutz 1-3 0-0 2, Melton 1-3 2-2 4, Manson
0-0 2-2 2, Witherington 0-0 0-0 0, Han 4-6 0-1 9,
Watkins 0-3 0-0 0. Totals 28-59 18-25 83.
Roanoke (86)

Proaor 4-6 0-0 8, Pendleton 6-14 7-8 21,
Ottcn 3-5 2-3 8, L. Rose 1-5 2-2 4, Betts 6-13 8-
10 20, Swartz 1-1 0-0 2, Cross 2-4 2-2 6, Spick-
ard 0-1 0-0 0, Lincburg 5-9 2-2 13, Williams 0-0
0-0 0, Gentry 0-2 2-2 2, Becker 1-2 0-0 2. Totals
29-62 25-29 86.

Halftime-48-27, RC. Three point goals-W&L (9-
15) Gallavan 6, Holton 2, Casey 1; RC (3-9)
Pendleton 2, Lincburg 1. Total fouls-W&L 23, RC
26. Fouled out-Otten, L. Rose. Technical fouls-L.
Rose, Casey. Rebounds-W&L 33 (Hatﬁeld 12), RC
38 (L. Rose 9). Assists-W&L 17 (Holton 6), RC
25 (Proctor 10). A-1504.

Washington and Lee (85)

Casey 3-6 3-4 9, Holton 4-7 5-6 13, Jacobs 6-
14 8-10 X), Gallavan 3-9 0-1 8, Hatﬁeld 2-3 5-12
9, Alrutz 0-0 0-0 0, Hart 8-12 6-6 22, Manson 1-
2 0-0 2, Melton 0-0 0-0 0, Penn 0-0 00 0, Wither-
ington 0-1 0-0 0, Watkins 0-0 2-2 2. Totals 27-54
29-43 85.

Eastern Mennonite (80)

Gingerich 3-8 6-6 13, Chupp 1-4 0-1 3,
Leonard 6-7 6-7 18, V. Troyer 9-17 2-2 20, Den-
linger 4-10 8-8 16, Dean 0-0 ()0 0, Hurst 1-1 0-
0 2, Cooper 2-5 2-3 6, M. Troyer 1-2 0-1 2,
Ramsey 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 27-55 24-28 80.

Halftime-37-28, W&L. Regulation-74-74. Three
point goals-W&L (2-12) Gallavan 2; EMC (2-ll)
Chupp 1, Gingerich 1. Total fouls-W&L 27, EMC
30. Fouled out-Leonard, M. Troyer. Rebounds-
W&L 32 (Hart 9), EMC 41 (V. Troyer, Leonard
9). Assists-W&L 13 (Holton 4), EMC 15 (V.
Troyer, Leonard, Gingerich 4).

TEAM LEADERS

 

G/GS FG% FT% REB/AVG PT S/AVG
Chris Jacobs 24/23 .431 .745 172/7.2 439/ 1 8.3
Mike Holton 24/23 .475 .842 75/3.1 301/ 1 2.5
Ed Hart 10/8 .545 .882 67/67 125/ 1 2.5
Craig Hatﬁeld 24/23 .590 .592 188/7 .8 262/10.9
Jim Casey 24/21 .460 .763 41/ 1.7 255/ 10.6
Pat Gallavan 24/8 .362 .361 43/1.8 131/5.5
crudrotronics
We Sell the Boot Seat: in the House K A 9

DENON SONY

ADCOM ALPINE

B&O CWD

K5,, NEG Welcomes

BOSTON DAHLQUIST o

KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI  IHIIT7/By

ISt‘v‘§§.’“S$¥‘§é‘%So.3’2»‘t'I~‘S"° to the 1990

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT

- lN-STORE SERVICE CENTER Zeta I013

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

-moe4~sAccErrEv Pledge Class

(300) 468-6667
Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

463-9588

 

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

  
 
  
 

6

Write friends.
Write home.

Write now.

PO 
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 AM - 6 PM
Sunday Noon - 6 PM

   
 
  

the

   
      
   
   
     
  
   
     

Jefferson

florist to The Horncstcztd

is pleased to announce
the re-opening of their
shop at
Ten East Nelson St.
on

Monday, February 19, 1990
Hours: 9-5:30

Antiques, Flowers
Gifts and Accessories

We will be closed for moving
February 16 & 17

  

Weatherby® -Flemington®
Browning® 0 Mossberg®
We will not be undersold
by anyone!

FREE

Scope Mount & Bore
Sighting with purchase.

Best prices on Hunting
Equipment & Clothing too!

 

 

]“[lJNTEI2(851iUNTl2lTc§S‘)
18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington 463-1800

 

 

  

EBACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, February 15, 1990

Experience Driving Miss Daisy

By Todd Peppers
Entertainment Columnist

Driving Miss Daisy is a
bittersweet tale that managed to
quickly capture my cynical heart. It
is the story of an elderly southern
Jewish lady, played by the mag-
niﬁcent Jessica Tandy, who plants her
1948 Hudson into a neighbor’s gar-
den. After the near—disaster her son
Boolie (Dan Aykroyd in a nicely
understated performance) demands
that she give up driving and hire a
chauffeur. When Miss Daisy refuses
Boolie himself hires a black man
named Hoke (Morgan Freedman) to
drive for his mother.

Hoke is a unpretentious, patient
man who finally convinces Miss
Daisy to tum over the steering wheel.
But Miss Daisy’s small defeat doesn’t
end her ability to control the situa-
tion: she perches herself in the back
of the car and--when not scrutinizing
the speedometer--offers Hoke her
barbed opinions on life; he often
counters with simple words that paint
a more authentic picture of their
world.

The story begins in Georgia in the
early l950’s and ends almost twenty
years later, although the upheaval and
violence that burned across the land
does not play a central role in the
film. Instead those changes are
reflected in the evolving relationship,
and eventual friendship, between Miss
Daisy and Hoke.

Miss Daisy considers her black
servants as children who are always
taking things. When son Boolie ad-
monishes his mother about her at-
titude toward Hoke, she declares:
"l’ve never been prejudiced Boolie,
and you know it." Yet Miss Daisy’s
actions toward her chauffeur and
housekeeper betray her true nature.

The subtle brilliance of the
screenplay, written by playwright
Alfred Uhry from his stage version of
Driving Miss Daisy, springs from the
fact that Miss Daisy is as much a
victim of senseless prejudice and
ignorance as Hoke. For example:
late in the film Miss Daisy and Hoke
leam that her synagogue has been
bombed. During the drive home
Hoke recalls the childhood memory
of seeing his neighbor being lynched.
Miss Daisy’s irritably tells Hoke that
his story has nothing to do with the
bombing of the temple; the old
women fights the notion that she and

Hoke could be equals in their fight
against mindless bigotry.

I was fascinated by the ease in
which Tandy and Freeman slipped on
their personas. Granted the charac-
ters are skillfully created by
playwright Uhry, but Tandy and
Freeman breath life into Miss Daisy
and Hoke. Tandy has a more thank-
less task: she portrays a sharp—ton-
gued and narrowed minded widow
who verbally abuses Hoke through
most of the film.

My first inclination was to find
amusement in the opinionated and
biting comments of Miss Daisy, but
underlying my laughter was a vague
uneasiness--I was finding humor in
her unadmirable character flaws. Yet
I came to honestly admire Miss
Daisy because she has the inner
strength to change as the civil rights
movement swirls around her.

But it is Freeman that carries the
film on his shoulders. He is ab-
solutely convincing as the simple but
digniﬁed chauffeur who is unafraid
take a stand for his beliefs. Miss
Daisy initially treats Hoke as if he
were a second—class citizen, but he
points out with devastating humility
that he is (1 man and will be treated
accordingly. His remarks trigger the
turning point of Miss Daisy’s emo-
tional growth: slie slowly ceases to
regard Hoke as "one of them" and
instead treats him as a human being.

This growth culminates in one of
the film’s final scenes when Hoke
comforts the elderly and confused
Miss Daisy. She stares up at him
with frightened eyes and tells Hoke
that "you’re the best friend I've got."
They quietly join hands and nothing
more is said. Forever banished is the
formalized relationship between a
wealthy white southemer and her
black chauffeur, it is replaced with a
pure and tender friendship.

The underlying theme in Driving
Miss Daisy springs from the words of
Martin Luther King. Miss Daisy
attends a benefit dinner for King.
She has an extra ticket, but cannot
overcome her prejudice and leaves
Hoke outside with the car. Miss
Daisy listens to King want his
audience not to fear the evil of those
consumed with racial hatred, but
instead those who are ﬁlled with
apathy toward the plight of the
blacks. Awareness and remorse
slowly fill Miss Daisy’s eyes as she
stares at the vacant seat to her right.
By the film’s end she has, in her

own small way, banished the apathy
in her soul.

Driving Miss Daisy is, on one
level, a humorous and handsomely-
filmed production; yet it delivers a
powerful testimony to the value of
friendship and the rlestructiveness of
racial and religious intolerance.

ii.

Peppers will grade Driving Miss
Daisy a solid "A"--I consider it equal
vvllh the likes of When Hgzrry Met
Sally and Born of the Fourth of July.
The film is currently showing at the
State Theater, and I, urge you to
experience Driving Miss Daisy before
it leaves town.

Dance! Dance! Dance!

Ballroom dance instructor Frank Roupas leads Nancy Hickam through
1 complicated step during a Monday night lesson designed to help
students prepare for Fancy Dress. Roupas will offer lessons again to all
interested on Monday, February 26th and Monday, March 5th at 7:00,
8:00, 9:00, and 10:00 in Room 113 of the University Center. Those
returning from Monday’s lesson should come at 8:00 or 9:00. Beginners
should attend the 7:00 or 10:00 lessons. The cost is $5 per person and
due at the door. Persons wishing to stay an extra hour to practice may
do so for free. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

FD Supplemenr
coming March 1

All day

1:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

10:30 a.m.

OND

7:30 p.m.

I WEEKLY CALENDAR

Washington holiday begins, undergraduate classes end.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WRESTLING: Eastern
Regionals.

31 ST ANNUAL JESSUP INTERNATIONAL MOOT COURT
COMPETITION: Teams from law schools throughout the
Southeast will compete. Moot Courtroom and other
classrooms in Lewis Hall. Public invited.

OPERA BROADCAST: Samson at Dalila (Saint-Saens).
WLUR-FM (91.5).

FAIR CONCERT: Rockbridge Modern Dance Ensemble.
Lexington High School.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL: Rhodes
College.

SUNDAI, EEBBQAB! ]§

31 ST ANNUAL JESSUP INTERNATIONAL MOOT COURT
COMPETITION: Final Round.Lewis Hall. Public invited.

B
Mid-term grades due at noon.

TUESDAY FEBRUARY 20

 

BASKETBALL: ODAC Tournament, 1st Round: Warner
Center.

 .F_LY_22

George Washington's Birthday.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: SWIMMING (M&W): Atlantic
States Championships (through 2/24); BASKETBALL:
ODAC Tournament (through 2/24).

T
1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Fligo/etto (Verdi). WLUR-FM (91.5).
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: INDOOR TRACK: ODAC
Championships.
Washington holiday ends, undergraduate classes resume.
Registration for Spring Term begins.
T S
11 a.m. LECTURE: "Neutrality in Today's World: A Swiss
Perspective," Edouard Brunner, Swiss Ambassador.
Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.
8 p.m. COMMERCE SCHOOL PRESENTATION: "Planning in the
Health Care Industry," Casey Noland, partner, Ernst &
Young. Room 221, Commerce School. Public invited.
8 p.m. CONCERT GUILD: Beaux Arts Trio. Lee Chapel.
 
Ash Wednesday.
TﬂUR§DAY, MARCH ]
4 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Test
Interpretation. Room 108, University Center.
4:30 p.m. ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: James P. Warren, assistant

professor of English, W&L. Room 21, Payne Hall. Public
invited.

COURTESY

Mercury

Ford

Come See Us About A New Ford or Mercury

$4OO REBATE OVER OFFERED REBATES
NO PRIOR CREDIT REQUIRED

Pre-Approved Credit May Make Down Payment Unnecessary
120 Days Before First Payment

Call Doug Turrell: Day 261-21 12; Night 463-1952

Directions to Courtesy Ford-Mercury: 10 minute drive

Rt. 60 East to Hardees

‘Right turn at Hardees

Go 5 blocks to 3rd traffic light
left at 3rd traffic (20th St.)

2 blocks to Dealership

COURTESY

Mercury

Ford

2019 Forest Ave.,
Buena Vista

22

J ‘
0”!‘ f'am'\\‘:' \

M-F 8 a.m.-6 p.m.: Sat. 9 a.m.-3 D.m.

261-2112 - Sales
261-1380 - Service

VA DLR

Staying in town for break?

DO IT
Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. — 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

 

