gjﬁffqéat

A-cc-or.d\Om4-3

9

O

4

D

O

4

F

C

«.1170!

.9

maﬂftb

6‘ Fe 1

    

/Art 

4 578.755
#552.
\/.-%’/l
no .’2'l

Q. 2

 

i.-vs;

EH‘. ‘»t~ol'vi-..r~:.*.i‘I‘~.r
"N Ztiﬁwnr‘, ,gV.~4 it, *".‘-3!’
l“=.«'.‘.'1~7’.‘.'~‘, \/A  _.

i A

   
 

City may hunt down student cars --- see page 4

C112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlit

VOLUME 89, NO. 26

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 24, 1990

PiKA continues reorganization

 
By Brian Root and Andrew Waters
of The Ring-tum Phi’ staff

Washington and Lee’s Pi Kappa
Alpha chapter has been given six
months to reorganize itself, after the

' personal negotiation of W&L Presi-

dait John Wilson with the national
fraternity, according to the newly-
elected house vice—presideni.

“In six months, they (the national
fraternity) will come in and give us a
review and let us know the state of
the house," said Richard Perry. “We
would have lost our charter if Wilson
had not stepped in and negotiated.”

The reorganization of the chapter
has not “progressed as well as was

hoped,” according to the executive
director of the national fraternity.

“It (the reorganization) was not
going like we, the university, or some
members of the chapter thought it
should," said Kevin Virta, PiKA’s
executive director. “We’re just trying
to service a chapter that is not meet-
ing the needs of its members.

As a result of this reorganization,
PiKA elected another group of house
officers Tuesday night, according to
PiKA member John Miller.

After the house's operations were
temporarily halted in January by the
national fraternity, a new group of
officers was appointed, rather then
elected, which led to resentment
among some members.

According to Perry, Wilson asked
that the latest round of elections be
held to better include the house in
the reorganization process.

“Wilson wanted to have the offi-
cers elected,” Perry said. “So that
everyone felt they had played a part
and had inﬂuenced something.”

Virta said the national fraternity is
“working closely with the university
to help the chapter fulﬁll all the
needs of its members.”

Virta said the chapter had “v-
iolated some of the fraternity’s stan-
dards and policies,” which led to the
effort to remake the chapter.

“We are basically a service or-
ganization,” he said “That’s what
we’re trying to do, is service one of

our chapters that needs assistance.”

However, Virta would not say
what standards were judged to have
been broken.

“We believe that this a matter
that is best handled just between us,
the chapter, and the university," he
said.

“We weren't close to PiKA na-
tional standards,” said Perry. “Lots
of things had happened in the past.”

Virta said that it was possible, al-
though not likely, that the W&L
chapter could lose its charter from
the national fraternity, which would
eliminate the chapter from any con-
nection with PiKA’s national.

“Whenever you’re looking at a
chapter that’s not performing up to

speaks with Virginia Gov. L. Douglas Wilder during VMl’s gradu-

Wilder skirtsVM| coed issue

Coeducation an issue for courts to decide, Governor says

Virginia Military Institute Superintendent Maj. Gen. John Knapp ation, held last Saturday in Cameron Hall. Wilder delivered the

commencement address. Photo courtesy of the News-Gazette.

By Brian Root
Editor

Virginia Governor L. Douglas Wilder Satur-
day assured the newest graduates of the Virginia
Military Institute that, while he opposes all forms
of discrimination, he will not intervene in the
issue of possible coeducation at the all-male
school.

“Let me put it simply, VMI has been too
good for too long for me to intervene now,” said
Wilder to a crowd of over 3,000 in VMI’s
Cameron Hall Saturday morning.

Wilder, who made his remarks during his
commencement address at VMI, also said in his
speech that he expects both the students and
faculty of VMI to respect and obey any ruling by
the courts.

“My charge to you is to stand prepared to

accept that decision, whatever it may be,” Wilder
said. “To uphold the law you have come to
cherish, and to remain loyal to VMI, whatever its
structure.”

In the speech, Wilder, as he has since the
issue was raised, refused to say whether he
thinks VMI’s admissions policy is discriminatory.

The govemor’s only official stance has been
to say that the matter should be settled by the
courts, although the U.S. Justice Department has
named Wilder in its lawsuit against the state.

Former Governor Gerald Baliles, when the
issue was first raised by the Justice Department,
had threatened to appoint members of the VMI
Board of Visitors who would support coed-
ucation. Wilder, however, told the audience that
he imposed no such litmus test.

“I recently reappointed four members to your
Board of Visitors,” said Wilder. “I asked none
of them about their position on coeducation. I

will ask only that they (future appointees) dis-
charge their responsibilities to the best of their
ability.”

Following Wilder’s remarks, VMI Superinten-
dent Maj. Gen John Knapp said that VMI would
follow any eventual court ruling concerning the
school.

“Govemor Wilder, let me assure you that we
will observe the power of loyalty,” Knapp said.
“You can expect that from VMI men.”

The Justice Department has alleged that the
male-only admissions standard denies women an
equal opportunity to a military-based education. '

In reply, the state has said that other state-
supported schools, such as Virginia Tech, offer
ROTC prograrris that give women equal opportu-
nity, thus allowing the state to fulﬁll its constitu-
tional obligations.

Arguments for the case will be heard in the
U.S. District Court in Roanoke on June 4. '

our standards, removing the chapter's
charter is a possibility,” he said.

“I’m not sure, but I think we
would have eventually lost our char-
ter,” Perry said. _

According to Miller, PiKA’s new
ofﬁcers are Eric Mutz, president,
Richard Perry, vice-president, John
Simonton, treasurer and Darren Brac-
chia, secretary,

Perry and Bracchia were reelected
to their respective positions.

The reorganization began in Jan-
uary, when the national fraternity
suspended all house operations. Sub-
sequently, each of the 62 members of
the house were interviewed by PiKA
officials, including PiKA’s chapter
consultant Scott Russell. Only 30 of

those were invited to rejoin the new
chapter.

The remaining 32 were accorded
“early alumni status,” which prohib-
ited them from entering PiKA proper-
ty for two years.

Since then, said Perry, “16 or
17” members have been let back in
through the appeals process.

“Everyone is committed to saving
the chapter and getting rid of hazing
and vandalism that goes on in the
houses,” said Perry. “Hopefully,
PiKA will be the model for fraterni-
ties in the next year or two.

“We’ve been around for 98
years," Perry said. “We sure want to
be around to celebrate our 100th
anniversary.”

Counselors
raid dorms

Freshman alcohol seized,
‘Gag gift’ draws criticism

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

Freshman dorm rooms were en-
tered and searched for alcohol by five
dorm counselors last Wednesday
night, according to freshmen who
said their rooms were opened without
their permission while they were not
present.

Freshmen were asked to turn over
any alcohol they had in exchange for
being pardoned from serving hours,
the regular consequence of being
found with alcohol in the freshman
dorms.

According to Assistant Dean of
Students Ken Ruscio, the search came
after a lunch discussion at which the
five counselors — Head Dorm Coim-
selor Mary Alice McMorrow, Shawn
Copeland, J. Wayne Burris, John
Durant and Tom Brubaker — ex-
pressed their desire to enforce the
alcohol policy.

Although Ruscio said that it is not
typical for counselors to ask freshmen
whether they have any alcohol, he
also said, “It’s not really a change
but an additional step” to the present
policy. ,

Brubaker said he and the other
dorm counselors covered 85 percent
of the freshman roorris.

The counselors asked freshmen
present at the time of the raid to turn
over any alcohol they had. Some
freshmen who were not present at the
time had their roorris and refrigerators
searched.

Several members of the Executive
Committee voiced concern that dorm
counselors may have used the Honor
System in their search.

“Using the Honor System to take
care of disciplinary matters...is totally
wrong,” said Senior EC Rep. David
Radulovic at Monday night's EC
meeting. ,

Ruscio agreed, but said “to use

that in the context of this evening is
very simplistic.”

Ruscio asserted that if a dorm
counselor has reason to believe a
student has alcohol and asks about it,
a student must respond truthfully.

According to Ruscio, some fresh-
men were upset by the fact that
counselors entered rooms when no
one was there.

Durant said, “Some of the fresh-
men were complaining that we had
no probable cause, but on a Wednes-
day night during spring term, that’s a
probable cause."

Ruscio said that student
complaints were valid. “I will
concede that some of the counselors
went a step too far,” he said.

Counselors are supposed to use
their passkeys to enter locked roorris
only in the case of an emergency, but
Ruscio confirmed, “One counselor
used his passkey twice [Pat evening.”
I The alcohol collected by the coun-
selors was “poured down the drain,”
said Ruscio, although the dorm coun-
selors initially intended it to be their
“gag gift” to outgoing Dean of
Students Lewis John at a reception
later that week.

Ruscio said that when the coun-
selors were confronted with one-half
to two—thirds of the roorris having
alcohol in them, the gift “became
obviously inappropriate.’ ’

EC Vice President-elect Raymond
Welder told the EC that the action

taken by the dorm counselors
“should be equally offensive to this
body.”

Senior EC Rep. John Pringle said,
“It seems like such an oppressive,
authoritarian thing to do with people
raiding roorris and searching refri-
gerators."

When asked how he felt about the
results of the evening, Ruscio replied,
“I feel badly as to what happened
and thsfeelings that resulted, particu-
larly for the counselors involved."

Confetti’s bash
generates profit

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Trident told the Executive Com-
mittee Monday night that it stands
about $3,000 in the black for this
weekend’s speaker and Confetti’s.

Trident Chairwoman Alicia Hay
reported that with 212 Confetti’s
tickets already sold, revenues total
over $l2,0()0, compared to the proj-
ected expenses of about $9,000.

Trident will cosponsor, with the
Dean of Student’s office, speaker
Victoria Bond, Virginia’s 1989
“Woman of the Year”in Lee Chapel,
tomorrow at 4 p.m.

EC President Willard Dumas read

a letter from Associate Dean of Stu- .

dents Anne Schroer-Lamont to Stu-
dent Activities Board Chaiiman Char-
les Conklin, asking that SAB’s con-
certs on Friday afternoon be resched-
uled so as not to conﬂict with Bond’s
presentation.
SAB scheduled Points or Cash,
_ subdudee I net in the Snncrrnarket

and Left Exit to perform in the pavil-
ion for 45 minutes each, beginning
tomorrow at 3 p.m., according to
Conklin.

Schroer-Lamont’s letter said that
the Interfratemity Council understood
that no other Springfest events were
to be scheduled in conﬂict with
Bond, but leadership of Springfest
was transferred from IFC to SAB
without that understanding.

She asked that Conklin resched-
ule the bands to begin at 5 p.m.

Conklin told the EC that the cost
for lighting if the bands ran after
dark would increase, though he could
not state the precise amount.

Dumas instructed Conklin to meet
with Hay, Schroer-Lamont and Dean
of Students Lewis John to work out
a solution. That meeting had not
taken place as of yesterday.

Dumas also said that he intended
to meet with John in the hopes of
making it unnecessary for students to
obtain a noise permit for Confetti’s.

Last weekend, said Dumas, Lex-

ington police entered the Washington

 

Dean Schroer-Lamont
..upset with Spring Fest scheduling

and Lee campus twice to close soror-
ity parties in response to complaints
from the W&L community. At least
one of those complaints, he added,
came from a student.

He said that Trident intends to
secure a noise permit from the city
for Confetti’s, but regrets setting the
precedent that students need obtain
such permits for parties “in the mid-
dle of the university.

“I think it's really sad that W-
ashington and Lee students would call
in noise violations against other Was-
hington and Lee students,” said Du-
Hill.

Spring Fest this weekend

By Pamela Kelley
Entertainment Editor

This weekend Washington arid- Lee fraternities,
sororities, the Independent Union and the Minority
Student’s Association will participate in Spring Fest, an
event designed to benefit local charities.

The proceeds of Spring Fest, which has been coor-
dinated by the Student Activities Board and the Interfrate-
rriity and Parihellenic Councils, will be divided between
the American Cancer Society and .a scholarship to send a
child to Yellow Brick Road PreSchool.

According to IFC President Goodloe Lewis, each of
the groups has contributed $300 in order to take part in
this weekend’s festivities, which will begin Friday at 3:00
p.m. with a concert in the Student Activities Pavilion
featuring W&L student bands Lost in the Supermarket
and Cash or Points, as well as Left Exit and the Louisi-
aria-based rhythm and blues band the Subdudes.

Fraternity, sorority, MSA and IU members will gather
at the law ﬁeld to take part in the games, which will
begin at 12 noon Saturday with three innings of softball
for the males and powder puff football for the females.

Other events will include an egg toss, bat relays and
a pie eating contest for the males.

The groups have been divided into three teams. Group
A will include the Lee Ave. fraternities, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, Chi Omega, and IU. Group B will include the
Red Square fraternities, Kappa Kappa Gamma, and the
MSA. Group C will include the Davidson Park fraternities
and Kappa Alpha Theta.

Schedule of events

FRIDAY... 3-7 p.m. in the Student Activities Pavil
ion — concert: Subdudes, Left Exit, Lost
in the Supermarket, Cash or Points

SATURDAY... 12 p.m. on the law field — 3 irmings
of softball for male teams; “Powder
puff’ ’ football game for female teams

2:30-4:30 on law field — group events,
including egg toss, pie-eating contest,
drag beauty contest (for fraternity
members only)

The event will culminate with the crowning of a
Spring Fest Queen, who will be chosen during a beauty
contest held for fraternity members in drag at 4:30 p.m.

At that time, the donations will be presented to the
Cancer Society and Yellow Brick Road, which is spon-
sored by the United Way and located at the R.E. Lee
Episcopal Church.

The Spring Fest proceeds will aid in Yellow Brick
Road's commitment to subsidize tuition to the school for
area children, ages two to five years old, of low-incorne
families.

The acoustic band Derryberry and Alagia will perform
throughout the day, beginning at 2 p.m. under a tent on
the law field. Lunch will be served on the law field by
the Dining Hall.

 

 OPINION

 

Tough times for
the Spectator

John Lennon once said (or sang). “mother always told
me there’d be days like these.” We strongly suspect that
to be the current attitude among the staff of the
Washington and Lee Spectator. It’s almost amazing how
one little article can bring out the hostility in readers, isn’t
it guys?

It would be easy to sit back and idly condemn the
Spectator for its truly terrible reporting in the much-
discussed article “Pride and Prejudice” that appeared in
the Alumni Weekend edition. However, since we at The
Ring-tum Phi have been known to occasionally blow a
story, that seems pointless.

Rather, today’s message could be summarized as
“Welcome to the big leagues.” Rightly or wrongly, fairly
or unfairly, when you put out a publication, you take on
an enormous responsibility. The reading public expects
you to do the absolute best job possible in every aspect of
publishing. In the last edition of the Spectator, in their
eagerness to run an eye-catching, thought-provoking story
about faculty hiring, the magazine’s staff let everyone
down.

Because they didn’t take the time to conﬁrm their
information, the credibility of the story, the issue, indeed
of the whole magazine, was damaged.

That’s a shame. Whether you read the magazine or not,
one must admire the staff of the Spectator for simply
being able to publish, without any money from the
university. In one year, they have managed to create one
of the most-read publications on campus. You don’t have
to agree with their political leanings to appreciate their
success.

Congratulations, guys. You’ve accomplished the easy
part. However, the fact that you’re widely read does not
by itself make you a good magazine. After all, somewhere
out there are millions of people who read The National
Enquirer and think that Elvis is living in their basement.

The Spectator now must prove to everyone that it
deserves all the attention it gets. How does it do that? It’s
simple. If the editors want to report news, they need to do
a much better job of getting the facts straight.

One of the most basic rules of reporting is to conﬁrm
information, particularly on a story of the magnitude of
the faculty hiring article. When you run a story of that
importance, you better have information from more than
one source, or you can get in a lot of trouble.

Believe us, we know.

The Phi Awards  

This year, The "Ring-tum Phi will make four presentations
to individuals of the Washington and Lee community. Stacy
Morisson and Gregory Euston, Editors for the ‘89-‘90 year,
chose four outstanding individuals for The Ring-tum Phi

. Awards who are generally unrecognized and have excelled
in their endeavors.

Keith Shillington was chosen for lending a unique
character to the chemistry department and the university.

Jim Stagnitta was chosen for leading the men’s lacrosse
team to its first winning season since 1987. .

Michael Holton was the only current student chosen.
Mike exempliﬁes the student-athlete that Washington and
Lee strives to include.

Todd Smith, ‘83, was a reporter for The Tampa Tribune
until he was murdered earlier-this year in Peru. Smith was
covering the drug trade in Latin America. His award will be
presented to his parents.

Quote of the Week

Go home. Go home now. I mean it. Go home right now!

-_Kimber1y ‘Booth, the president of Kappa Alpha Theta,
pohtely explaining to attendees of the sorority's “Spring
Fhng, that the event had drawn to a close.

  

  

Cilia ﬁling-mm iﬂlri

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 
    
  

   

Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Associate Editors Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Assignment Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cathy Lopiccolo
Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Greg Euston

. . . . . . . . . o . . .

    
         
       
     
      
    
 
  

Senior Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jason Kelley

Entertainment Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pamela Kelley

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jay Plotkin

Associate Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John Laney

Photo Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chris Leiphart

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeff Woodland

Editorial Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joshua Manning

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne Dysart

Advertising Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . Chris Mark and John Miller

Circulation Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

 
    
 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

    
     
   
   
   
 
       
    

e    The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

        
 

The Fllng-tum Phl, May 24, 1990

lBEw/i P rue!
_l%..€9R.EA._r.v__0_:_7's.

Wwwaé

. ' 1
— /4 , .._'/;_‘7/A9, 4\r\‘ 0

ect

MY VIEW
By Jennifer Spreng

"1 am going to talk of controversial things. I
make no apology for t ' ..."
— Ronald Reagan, A Time For Choosing

Quite a few people seemed very pleased about
the most recent issue of the Washington and Lee
Spectator. They seemed pleased not because the
issue was good reading or because they agreed
with the magazine's editorial ideology. No, they
were pleased that some of the stories contained
some factual errors that gave those students “j-
ustification” to blast the magazine and embarrass
its editors.

Those are not emotions about which any of us
ought to feel especially proud. Frankly, to those
who felt that way, I say “for shame!”

It is easy to be a critic. Theatre critics who
haven’t enjoyed a show since Shakespeare are
legendary on almost every city newspaper. Critics
expose everyone else’s weaknesses, but they never
have to reveal their own for scrutiny. They wrap
themselves up in self-satisfaction and blast away at
everyone else’s frailties and insecurities.

Wliaf ‘isn't s‘o"efa'§3'?“is'”to”cre’ate' anew enterprise

L cori-'i'pl'e°tely frorri  J, *1 adrrrire‘iPa.ul9Lagar‘de

and Ray Welder for their bravery in starting out
with just a few friends supporting them, into an
unknown jungle of challenges, problems, and traps.

/ '1”
./4AA:V-‘}~_‘

V.

'11

or critics miss o

When the first issue of the Spectator was not all
that is could have been and certainly not all they
had hoped, they accepted the criticism quite good-
naturedly and made honest attempts to improve. I
am very certain that 99 percent of their classmates
would have quit right then, but that is because Paul
and Ray are more dynamic and courageous than
most.

Most of the Spectator's critics have probably
never done anything so dynamic or creative in their
whole lives. While .the Spectator staff is out
taking the risks that go along with dynamism and
creativity, its critics are living their lives of quiet
desperation. Most are probably too cowardly to
mold something of their own and set it before the
public at large.

I suspect that the real reason that some in the
student body and faculty are so vocally critical of
the Spectator has very little to do with an inac-
curate interview printed naively as fact in the
Alumni Weekend issue. The real reason lies in
those lonely moments between when we tum out
our lights at night and when we actually fall
asleep. Those are the moments when we can no
longer hide from our true souls with the masks of
rhetoric, bravado and self-righteousness that we
wear during the waking hours. Those are the
moments when we come face to face with our

personal success or failure at living lives that_areb_

true and noble. Those are moments of frightening
honesty.

The “problem” with the Spectator is that it
strips away many of our security blankets. It says

-_ x '_ x}.
\ .
~.\ \ 
> \_x . 
\._.



many of the things that many of us would rathe,
go unsaid. Though the articles sometimes are t
brazen, contain numerous factual and rhetoric
blunders and carry otherwise thoughtful argument
to their lowest common denominators, I know tha
I certainly cannot help but to admit that man
articles in the magazine ring alarmingly true.

I suspect that the real rea-
son that some in the stud-
ent body and faculty are so
vocally critical of the Spec-
tator has very little to do
with an inaccurate interview
printed naively as fact.

The article which received the most criticisr
in the past issue, “Pride and Prejudice: Affirm:
tive Action at Washington and Lee,” did contai
an alarnring number of errors. What is mos
unsettling to most of us is that even though on«
example in the article is now obviously inaccurate
the thesis of the article is still substantiated b
other, solid evidence. For those of us who fee

   

some concern over, these issues, it is. certainly

lence and ethnic representation may exist, bu

3 unwelcome news that this _tradeoff between excel!

because of the article, we are left with the nagging

Cl Please see spnenc page 3'
I

Student objects
to dorm search

It’s great to see our senior dorm counselors
exercising their appointed authority with such
thoughtful regard for freshmen. I can rest safe
knowing that our ODK-recognized leaders have
resorted to tactics employed by such well-
respected ﬁgures as ABC agents, Lexington’s
Finest, and the SS. Threatening freshmen with
the Honor System is a very classy move indeed.
What a great way to earn the respect of your
peers. I only wonder what other questions asked
by dorm counselors are prefaced by “On your
honor...”?

“...are you a virgin?”

“...were you at that party on your hall last
night?” «
“...did you make fun of me behind my
back?” ”

“...did that girl/guy stay in you room?”

“...were you reading that Playboy before I
used my pass key to barge in?”

“...does your fraternity haze?”

“...have you ever used controlled substan-
ces?”

“...did you perform those hours I gave you
cheerfully and vigorously?”

What a great place Washington and Lee has
become.

Bargain prices
for beating up
flag-burners

I could not help but notice in last week's
edition of your newspaper that Mr. Hill - a self
described conservative, interestingly enough —
wrote that it is unconstitutional to make illegal
the desecration of the United States ﬂag.

O.K., fine; now that the U.S. Constitution and
all the other federal dictates firmly apply to the
states, I suppose that Mr. Hill is correct. But I
urge the states, the best representatives of the
people, to strike back at the colossal power of
Washington, D.C., albeit circuitously. The
federal government no longer allows the states
(isn’t that curious to write considering it was the
states that allowed the feds. to exist in the first
place?) to pass legislation outlawing the destruc-
tion of the federal ﬂag. If that's what the
District of Columbia wants to do, so be it. But
I think it’s time for states to enact a different

LLETTERS

type of law; a law that might put a stop to the
various professional protesters who own just
enough brainpower to articulate their treasonous
thoughts by destroying O1‘ Glory and, at the
same time, sidestepping the supreme power of
the Supreme Court.

I say make the ﬁne for physically assaulting
someone desecrating the United States ﬂag $1,
and $1 only. Then patriotic Americans can show
their love for the U.S. in two ways: by beating
to a pulp any ﬂag burner that may show his ugly
head and, in doing so, donate $1 to state coffers.
I have a feeling that after the bums get their
noses bloodied, they'll think again before setting
fire to the symbol so many Americans died for.

Most Sincerely,
Ray Welder '91

Cartoonist
regrets error

in last drawing

Last week, I drew a cartoon of the Spectator
as Don Quixote. I also included a Klarisman’s
hood. The cartoon was drawn as a reaction to the
article “Pride and Prejudice: Affmnative Action
at Washington and Lee," by J. Cameron Hum-
phries and Scott McCoy. I believe that article is
slanted against minorities and completely mishan-
dles the thorny issue of affirmative action.

However. when I reviewed past articles in the
Spectator (speciﬁcally the interview with Walter
Williams), I realized that this particular story
represents only one end of a spectrum of articles
that have appeared in the magazine.

Therefore, in portraying the Spectator with a
Klansman's hood, my cartoon was inaccurate. I
apologize to anyone I offended with my mistake.

Sincerely,
Woody

Of sophomores
and spectators

While visiting the Washington and Lee carn-
pus during my 30th class reunion, I picked up
and read a copy of a magazine called the
Washington and Lee Spectator. So many fresh-
men were involved in its publication that it
seems ironic to find it so blatantly sophomoric.

Sincerely yours,
Jolm S. Hopewell ’60

Student defends
magazine article
on faculty hiring

After the recent ﬂood of accusations against
and criticisms of the latest issue of the Washing-
ton and Lee Spectator, I feel it necessary to point
out that the focus of the story in question,
“Pride and Prejudice," was not necessarily the
one isolated incident that everyone has foimd
fault with, but rather the general hiring policies
of the university.

The article states that President Wilson
“emphatically expressed his frustration at the
failure of various departments to hire an ap-
propriate nurnber of minority and women faculty
members" on March 6, and Dean Peppers wants
to “work as hard as we can to hire outstanding
women and outstanding minorities.” (I tend to
believe these points, because if they were wrong,
somebody would have corrected them by now.)
Hiring outstanding women and minorities I have
no problem with; in fact, I'm all for it. Hiring
women because they are women and minorities
because they are minorities, though, is racism.
That’s right, racism, against the white male
populaﬁon. For the record. I’m not a racist, and
I am a white male.

This policy of hiring, then, not only at Wash-
ington and Lee but at universities across the
country, quite simply turns my stomach.

In the unlikely case that the school had
applications from two different but identical
candidates, one a white male and one a black or
woman, I have to admit that I would probably,
as most people. choose the black or woman
candidate in an effort to achieve some degree of
demographic diversity. But honestly, how often
does this situation arise? The simple fact is that,
judging from several comments from different
administrators, the school seems to be willing to
sacriﬁce teaching excellence to meet a quota of
culturally diverse faculty. 1 am not saying that
there are no excellent minority or women profes-
SOTS; indeed. the school already employs some. I
am saying, however, that, in the coming decade,
when the administration will have to replace a
large percentage of the faculty, the people doing
tlrehiririgneedtolookforandhireonthebasis
of excellence, without regard to color or gender.
As Dean Peppers says, there are in fact trade-
offs in everything we do. But sacriﬁcing quality
of education at W&L for racism cloaked as affir-
Vmagave action doesn't seem to me to be a fair
tra .

Sincerely,
’ Brad Martin '92

u~n.,n.u.n-;.\o§.Q§w§,t-v

Cu ﬁﬁ

  

t

4

9



4

 

C

n.safoaI‘p»".o*n

gatxavfal?

 

,9

W?‘9

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, May 24, 1990

ST

Dorm alcohol raid ignored Constitution

MY VIEW

By J. Cameron Humphries

The right of the people to be secure in their
persons, houses, papers and effects, against
unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not
be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but
upon probable cause, supported by Oath or
ajﬁrrnation, and particularly describing the
place to be searched, and the person or things
to be seized.
— Article IV, The Bill of Rights

When last Wednesday night, May l6,
1990, head dorm counselor, Mary Alice
McMorrow asked me if I had any alcohol I
wished to turn over to her, I thought she was
joking. _

“Sure," I replied, “I bought a case just
last night. Here, take it.”

“No, I'm serious. It's Alcohol Amnesty
Night.”

My entire hall had a good laugh as she
explained that for tonight only, we freshmen

could rid ourselves of our alcohol without
receiving any hours. (I suppose we could
turn over our Bibles as well, but that's
another matter.) However, I should not say
the entire hall laughed or in any way imply
that all living on the hall were present, for a
few minutes later other dorm counselors
started searching empty rooms and Alcohol
Amnesty Night was not so funny anymore.

It was disheartening.

I carmot say that I have ever experienced
any breech of privacy which equalled the
Gestapo—like search and seizure activity which
occurred last Wednesday night. And I say
this although my room was never searched.
I suppose it requires a great deal more
personal strength or substance to look
someone in the eye while you search their
possessions than the dorm counselor who
combed my hall had. But that did not stop
some.

Rooms were searched while people were
sleeping, studying, or heaven knows what
else. But most importantly, rooms were
searched while people were absent -- locked
doors did not prevent this Gestapo from

entering rooms. I can only guess, but I bet
they were an invitation for a search.

And what was the purpose of this raid?
Though the dorm counselors delivered a
wide—range of explanation from merely “I’m
just real sorry” to the more noble goal of
allowing freshman to clear their guilty
consciences, the real motive had absolutely
nothing to do with the welfare of the
freshman class. The senior dorm counselors
were playing a joke.

The following afternoon the University
held a reception honoring Dean John.
Several student groups were invited and each
were asked to present the retiring Dean of
Students a gag gift. “Ha, ha,” certain senior
dorm counselors thought, “we'll raid the
freshman dorms. To hell with the United
States Constitution, the Bill of Rights, or
General Lee’s instructions ending
unannounced searches of the dormitories.”

Or so someone must have thought. I say
someone for I do not in any way mean to
implicate all dorm counselors in this crime, or
even all those in the senior class. Mary
Alice McMorrow, for example, even turned

down my offer to look in my room. This
raid did not even have the support of all
those who conducted it. And none of the
dorm counselors claimed responsibility for
instigating it.

Unfortunately, the
question facing the
Washington and Lee
community is... when
another such student
sponsored violation of
personal liberty will
occur.

When The Ring Tum Phi quoted. EC
President Willard Dumas as stating “We go
to a private institution, so we don't have all
of our constitutional rights,” I admit I did
not take him seriously. Yet, someone here at
Washington and Lee did.

But in a larger sense, Wednesday night's
activities are indicative of an even more

significant change occurring at Washington
and Lee.

As if the current disregard for Lee’s
legacy has not been enough to keep him
perpetually spinning in his grave, the
presumption by certain students that they are
not students, but administrators, signals just
how far Washington and Lee has strayed
from General Lee’s expectation of this
University.

Whatever gave certain senior dorm
counselors the notion that they had the
authority to invade freshman rooms is little
different from the false sense of authority that
caused the EC to close its doors, the
constitutional revisions committee to
recommend a reduction in the accountability
of Publications Board to the BC, or students
in an ad hoc committee to recommend the
establishment of a committee like the CRC.

Unfommately, the question facing the
Washington and Lee community is not only
why the alcohol arrmesty raid occurred, but
when another such student sponsored violation
of personal liberty will occur.

SPRENG

from page 2

doubt that it does. When we won-
der if our school, about which most
of us care deeply, is doing the right
thing, the Spectator arrives to plant
that seed of doubt, and also to point
out that we have no way of stopping
the world so that we can consider the
options.

The Spectator wants to blast us
from our far too comfortable reverie
of conventional wisdom. We prefer
to sit back, call the Spectator writers
“neofascist pigs” and hope they go
away.

Unfortunately for our peace of
mind, they keep returning. You see,
even if they don't have the God’s
truth, they do genuinely appear to
have a point. That is what we can-
not accept.

The Spectator is that often un-
welcome reminder of the costs of
change at Washington and Lee.
Everytime I want to pretend that
those costs don’t exist, or that change
isn’t really occuring, the Spectator
forces me to accept the reality.

But I can imagine that even those
who favor change," and the destruction

of the uniqueness of the school  '

light of day, are not quite so brave in
the darkness right before the sleeep
hits.

They have the Spectator there to
remind them that they are destroying
a one-of-a-kind form of education so
that others who might value it more
than they, will never have the opor-
tunity to experience it.

The Spectator forces the relativist
to recognize in these lonely moments
that he is inherently closed-rninded,

unable to respect and value the opin- ’

ions of the more absolute.

The Spectator reveals all of our
little intellectual dishonesties, the
protective coverings that we use to
mask the difference between what is
said and what is done.

Like the emperor who loathes the
message, so he kills the messenger,
we prefer to insult the publication
and its editors instead of accepting

By Karsten Amlie

Richard Poll, ’90, Newtown
Square, PA — “Life sucks if
your’re not in the right frame of
min .” ‘

publication and its} -

the challenges to our conventioal wis-
dom that the magazine presents.

As its editors could surely sub-
stantiate, I have been one of the
Spectator's most persistent critics in
its first year in print, but I believe
that my criticism has been in good

faith, borne from an inherent respect ,

for the ladies and gentlemen produc-
ing the magazine and a cornmittment
to the entrepreneurial dream it re-
presents.

I’m embarrassed that I cannot say
the same for many of my colleagues.
What I am not ashamed about is the
magazine itself. I'm proud to show
it to friends and relatives and to say,
“look at what Washington and Lee
students can do with a little drive and
initiative.”

 

Like the emperor
who loathes the
message, so he kills
the messenger, we
prefer to insult the.

editors instead of ac-
cepting the
challenges to our ,
conventional wisdom
the magazine pre-
sents.

Certainly when all of the Spec-
tator’s critics have been left in the
dust, its ambitious editor will still be
out blazing new trails, exposing more
of our insecurities, and encouraging
more young men and women to ac-
cept greater intellectual and entre-
preneurial challenges than they ever
thought possible.

EDITOR'S NOTE: Jennifer Spreng,

a senior, is listed on the masthead of
the Spectator as a “Contributor."

Hey S

 

Kathy Morrison, '90, Seaford,
VA — “I‘ can't believe there
aren’t more parking spaces. I
also can't believe we're spending
millions of dollars on fraternity
renovation when there is no
where to park.”

Next question, please

Composer Robert Stewart fields a question

klect, which was held on campus from May

Lee Chapel last Friday night about the new music festival Sono-

from the audience in

14-19. Joining

Stewart were_(left to right) composer Chinary Ung, Washington
and Lee music professor Margaret Brouwer and
Freund. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

composer Don

MY VIEW
By Leslie Lenkowsky

This spring, 59 students at Rutgers University's
Douglass College are participation in a pilot
program, designed to test the feasibility of adding
a community service requirement to the school's
curriculum. Each is working nine hours per week
for a variety of agencies at Rutgers and in the
surrounding community, while also attending a
series of lectures and discussions on citizenship. If
the course proves successful, additional tests will
occur next year. By the 1992-93 academic year, all
of the school's 8,000 undergraduates will be ex-
pected to take part.

Although none has yet been as ambitious as
Rutgers, colleges throughout the U.S. are increas-
ingly encouraging their students to serve as volun-
teers with charities and other civic groups. Many
offer course credit for doing so. The National and

Community Service Act which recently passed the
Senate will likely give these efforts a boost by
creating a $25 million program to foster school
based voluntarisrn.

Far from building altruism and civic responsi-
bility among students, these programs are likely to
have the opposite effect. Such practices may, for
example, tell undergraduates that they should not
donate their time unless they get something in
return. Developing the voluntary spirit depends
upon freely choosing it, not merely exercising it.
Including community service in the college curricu-
lum risks turning it into just another phase of
academic life, like freshman writing class and the
senior thesis, to be endured and then forgotten.

For many years, colleges have increasingly
defined their role as providing all kinds of service
to society. While the results have generally been
beneficial, there have been costs as well. Schools
and faculties have fragmented, missions have
become blurred and undergraduate education has
suffered. Now “community service" is to be added

TALKBACK

eniors, SPOUT OFF!

Debbie Grove, ’90, Winchester,
VA — “It's about time we got a

dam sno-kone machine. ' ’

 

 

TX-

smart people.’ ’

Photos by Erik Bertlesen

John Schneider, ’90, Houston,
“I liked Washington and
Lee better before they let in the

  Voluntarism-.. should be a voluntary

to the long list of what universities and colleges
should do. This is less a formula for reviving
higher education than a confession of how much it
is suffering. 4
Students should volunteer and colleges can -
and should — encourage and even assist them in
doing so. Personally and educationally, much can
be gained from helping others. But s:hools should
stop short of requiring, or giving credit, for such
work. Throughout their lives, students will have
much time to be volunteers and gain exposure to
the “real world.” However, they will normally
have little time for deep and sustained study except
in their college years. And without that sort of
experience, they will have much less to give to
their communities later on, both as citizens and as
volunteers. -

_ Lenkowsky is the President of the Institute for
Educational Affairs. This column was distributed by
the Collegiate Network and reprinted with permis-
sion from The Chronicle of Philanthropy.

Alan Heinrich, ’90, Marelton,
N.l— “Sorry, I'm all spouted
out. I've been spouting off for
the last four years.”

  

surr‘-9’

I

law school, Blackmun urged them to
be interested in current events and the
“glory and shame" of lustory. The
graduates were also asked to consider
becoming a judge, although Blackmun
admitted it is a difficult profession.

“Despite the fact it is sometimes
a depressing job to judge a person or
between people, it can also be a
rewarding one," Blackmun said.

Blackmun said he hoped the
graduates liked people and would
never abuse the power they hold over
them.

“Always remember human
sentiment and humility. There are

By Cathy Lopiccolo
Assignment Editor

Supreme Court Justice Harry A.
Blackmun addressed the members of
the Washington and Lee School of
Law Class of 1990 Saturday morning
in Warner Center.

Speaking to the ill new juris
doctor recipients, Blackmun offered
his hopes for the graduates as they
move out of school and “return to
reality.”

Recalling world events that
occurred while the graduates were in

._;_.,.,..v..-« .-4a.:-2-1.2.-.< raw-.-.v. .».~.-u.-.-.-.~.-.-.

   

arrogant people in law, and even
worse, there are arrogant judges,”
Blackmun said.

Despite the competition in law,
Blackmun told the students not to be
easily discouraged or to resent the
wcrld.

"The knowledge that comes with
age isn't from formulas, but from
touch, sight, sound, victories and
failwes, from human experiences and
emotions,” Blackmun said.

The 20-year veteran of the
Supreme Court said he had only one
demand for the new graduates.

“Do not succumb to the lure of

3.. pr» 1- A . o't . . \ ‘\.'F.‘\'u‘\“. ~.~:«.':.- ~.-C‘-'

..._ ,,.,.i,,. _. .».- .- .-he .- .~ .~ .-

,.,._i-,...,.._ .<~(c. .

 

Graduation
weekend

Last weekend saw both the
W&L law school graduation and
the graduation for Virginia Mili-
tary institute. At left, one atten-
dee’: pet is wearing the proper
mood clothing for the comm-
encement address by Supreme
Court Justice Harry Blackmun.
Below, some of VMl's gradu-
ates check out their diplomas.
Photo at left by W. Patrick
Hinely. Photo below courtesy of
the News-Gazette.

..———_.———__———___—_

Happy Graduation W&L...

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal
A large selection of Gift Items

121 5. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-2s3a

WM. L. HESS, Jr.
Owner

 

 -ea-Willi iii?‘

463-8448

.- .- rt-maria::u:azJ.1.a.r.~.a.s.r..*. ~.*,*.*.'~.‘.‘.‘ . .

E 1st Floor Reid Hall
Come to your Printing Center for:

- FLYERS 8- POSTERS Custom RESUMES 8: letters

- Copying & printing - Transparencies
- Programs ‘ - Brochures 8. Booklets
- Newsletters - Scanning

The Printing Center has added a Macintosh llx, Scanner, and Laser-
Writer II to its service. The Macintosh will read MS-DOS disks. We can
add scanned images to add to your posters orliyers. Stop by and pick
up a pamphlet about this equlpment’s capabilities.

oppogotQQ<r'

FALL & WINTER MERCHANDISE
5 , ON SALE NOW
New Spring items arriving daily ,

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
. (703)463-5988
j 

 

if I’ '  ‘"'rrnfnIng-rum Phl, May 24, 1990

 Blackmun: seek ‘moral ambition’

the convenient and the easy way.
You should know what is good and
bad and the difference between good
and bad. You know what is ethical
and unethical and the value of orie’s
good word and good name,"

Blackmun said. “You possess power

now, and people rely on you. Do not
abuse it.”

As lawyers, Blackmun said this
“moral ambition" should be the
students’ goal.

“May we constantly probe what
is right and just and discover that one
of its faces is compassion. Perhaps it
may be our only guide and comfort."

Lexington
proceeds
on car tax

By Fraser Bowen
Stall’ Reporter

The city of Lexington plans to
hire an employee whose primary task
would be to track down student-
owned cars not reported to the city
for personal property taxes.

The city had asked Washington
and Lee to give it a list of students
who owned cars in Lexington. How-
ever, the school refused to do so,
forcing the city to find other ways to
obtain the information. ,

The Lexington City Council has
done just that. The proposed 1990
Lexington city budget includes a
proposal for a new position in the
city’s finance department.

According to Lexington City
Manager Joe King, the new employ-
ee's job will be to assist the conirnis—
sioner of revenue and the city trea-
surer’s office with special projects.

Part of this responsibility will
include finding out who owns auto-
mobiles in Lexington and has not re-
ported them for taxation, said King.

King said the employee would not
be exclusively concerned with finding
student cars, but that task will proba-
bly be his primary responsibility.

People are supposed to report
personal property such as automobiles
to the Department of Revenue, but
when they do not the departrrient may
take steps to find and assess that
property. The assessments for the tax
are mailed out in the late fall.

If the budget proposal passes, the
employee could be hired after the

first of July, when the city’s fiscal
year begins.

This would mean students with
cars in Lexington could be presented
with a tax notice next school year.

Students with cars who live out-
side of the Lexington city limits
would not be taxed under the new
measure.

    

Get noticed .    

Campus organizations should
return their subrriissions to the
Student Handbook as soon as
possible if they wish to be'“in-
cludedintheﬂandbook next year.

in the Student Handbook box in
Payne Hall next to the Dean of
Students Office.

Confetti’s

The Confetti’s Weekend itinerary
is as follows: Friday, May 25
Guest Speaker Victoria Bond,
Virginia’: Woman of the Year, in
Lee Chapel at 4 p.m. A recep-
tion will follow in the Alunlii
House for all women faculty,
students, and administration. On
Saturday, May 26 at 9 p.m. will
be the Confetti’s Dance in the
Dell. There will be a tag bu‘.

Last hike

The Outing Club will take its last
hike of the year on Tuesday, May

to the top of Crabtree Falls in the
Blue Ridge. Pack a dinner, wear
sturdy shoes, and bring water and
rain protection. Transportation
provided. Meet at Baker 109.

I Fridge pick-up

Those who rented refrigerators at
the beginning of the year need to
return them on May 29 from 2 to
5 p.m. in front of Graham-Lees
dormitory. An Alpha Phi Qnega
member will be there to collect
them. They must be defrosted
and also empty of any food items.

Seniors

The last day to order personal
senior pictures from the Calyx in
order to receive them before
graduation is Wednesday, May
23. Contact Ashley Harper at
463-7870 or Suzame Sneed at
464-4248.

Environment

The environrnental section of the
Outing Club will have its last

GENERAL NOTES

Subrnissiorn may be dropped off I

29 at 2:30 p.m. The hike will be .

Library Show

 run in I series of library

automation demonstrations will be
‘held in Northen Auditorium on
Tuesday, May 29. This will be
presentation of the Irmovative
Library System. Sessions devoted
to the online catalog will be held
at 9 a.m. and 3:15 p.m. All
students, faculty, and staff are
invited to attend.

Canoeing

The paddling section of the Out-
ing Club will continue to hold
basic canoeirig sessions on the
Maury River. Attendance is
required to use an Outing Club
canoe. Sign up in advance out-
side Baker 109 or call Mark at

"463-7590 or Ernest at 464-4630.

Bike trip

The biking section of the Outing
Club will take a trip to Davies,
West Virginia for the Canaan
Mountain Bike Series on May 26
and 27. Bikers of all skill levels
are welcomed and transportation
is provided. Call Dennis
Garnbow at 463-9647.

Old footprints

' The Virginia Museum of Nat-
ural History is conducting tours
into the Culpepper Stone Quarry
to see dinosaur footprints that are
over 200 million years old. The
tours are on Saturday and Sunday
June 2 and 3. For reservations,
call (703) 666-8600. Tickets are
$5 in advance and $6 at the quar-
ry.

Bike rides

The Outing Club hosts weekly
bicycle road rides on Tuesdays,
Wednesdays, and Samrdays at 2
p.m. Those needing bike repair

’or service, tools and equipment

are available in Baker 109 on
Tuesdays, 7 to 8 p.m. and Satur-

‘V

6

vgﬁgtﬁ

B

-

FOR SALE

New, forest green, Barbour, oiled cotton
coat (Beaufort model), Size 36. For $130.
Nights 703-337-38l8.

Best Fundraisers On Campus!

is your fraternity, sorority or club interested
in earning $1,000+ for a one-week, on-
campus marketing project? You must be
well-organized and hard working. Call Jenny
or Myra at (800) 592-2121.

  

Lexion

130 S. Main St.

n 0.
.I‘

$5 D/2.
J

 
   
  

Cannondale-TREK - Brldgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 I Sat 9-12 noon

For your extra pieces of
1 15 S. Main St., Lexington

 

Beauty Ba’:

159 S. MAIN ST.
463-2886
LEXINGTON. VlRGlNlA

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
' BY APPOINTMENT

@@ 

  
   

Bike Shop

 
   
   

463-7969

     
  

Furniture Dealers
furniture

463-2742

  

E
E

difference. ”

     
   

, CATHOLIC
‘j CAMPUS
MINISTRY

“Two roads diverged in a wood, and I —
I took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the

-— The Road Not Taken by Robert Frost

On Your Journeys Through Summer and Beyond,
May God Walk Each Step Beside You.

 ~ ~ v '—5*' ~

 

~_o~_=onoTé-4%-«-0-~§ __ ,

     
   
    
    

Half Price

on cut flowers
Saturdays 3-5:30
' at our
New Location

meeting of the year on Monday, days’ 2 ‘° 3 Pm’
May 28 at 5 p.m. in room 113 of
the University Center. ‘
osavens ALLEY . _ _ "
BUSINESS SERVICES C|ud|OtfOn|cs
Our Typing We Sell the Boot Seats in the House
I5 _ DENON SONY
Word Perfect Aocou ALPINE

3&0 CWD

KEF NEC

BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KUPSCH NAKAMICHI
-VALLOOMPONENTS Pnsrssrso

- auvsn Pnorscnourim

- CAHINSTALLATION DEPARTMENT

- msronesenvicscsmsa

- wssenviceuosrsnmos

- mane-ms Aces:-rec

E_____a,;g~,;..;-.-s=w_;-v. (800) 468-6667
2” "gm, Md" 5".“ Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
 ‘.’;.-'.:.‘°.;’;‘i:‘.'.i:.:‘.:'.',°.“.:’.:’.:‘..l.‘.:‘.1'
H  Iii!   
 The Co-op will be open 
 for finals on June 1 & 2 
 from 8:00 p.m.-12:00 a.m. ;__
 From June 4-8, _:
:2’ The Co-op will be open 
 from 8:00-4:00 p.m. -
fl IIIII 'lI!II II|I'I"l'Il'l"l7I'Il’lil ii?’7i‘lEl;?ll’I"!II”"i’!I5llIlI IlII'I' IIIII II‘I I I ﬁ

 Florist to the Homestead

Ten East Nelson

463-9841

 

s..—_-.v=_ . — .—-.;.. -

h

uwueﬁsiuv

-'6

,-.l vuﬁcuﬁgo

 

V

.'i

 _sPoI=i1'_§._

C

931*

By John Laney
Assoicate Sports Editor

Senior John Morris and junior Bill
Meadows put together a pair of up-
sets this past weekend to win the
NCAA Division III national doubles
championship at Swarthmore Col-
lege.

It is the second straight NCAA
doubles championship for the Wash-
ington and Lee tennis team and the
third in the school’s history. Morris
and Bobby Matthews won the title
last year and the team of Ben Johns
and Stewart Jackson won the cham-
pionship in 1977.

In Saturday's semifinals, Morris
and Meadows, ranked lltli in the
nation before the toumament and
seeded eighth in the championships,

_ beat top seeds Scott Flippen—Read and

Larry Gewer from Washington Col-
lege 3-6, 7-5, 7-6 (7-3).

“That match ended up being a
better match than the finals to
watch,” said head coach Gary
Franke.

What rriade the win look even
better was the fact that it was Flip-
pen-Read who knocked Morris out of
the singles tournament earlier that
day. Morris was bidding to become

the first player in history to win
back-to-back Division HI singles
titles.

Morris reached the semifinals by
virtue of a 6-0, 3-6, 7-5 win in the
first round followed by three straight
set wins before Flippen—Read, the No.
3 seed, dispatched Morris 6-2, 6-1.

On Sunday afternoon, The W&L
duo defeated third-seeded Scott
Milener and Robert Hession of Roch-
ester College 6-3, 6-4 to win the title.

After five service breaks in the
first set, Morris and Meadows broke
serve to win the championship. “John
and I played the best we had played
all season," said Meadows, a 1989
doubles All-American and W&L’s
1988 Freshman Athlete-of-the-Year.

“In the tournament, we were always.

up and we never had any letdowns.
We seemed to be in control of every
match and we both served and re-
turned well, which is key to doubles
play.”

While Franke acknowledged that
Morris, a three time All-American
and the 1990 Division III Senior
Player-of-tlie-Year, performed well, he
was particularly impressed with the
outstanding play of Meadows.

“Meadows played up to his pot-
ential every time and he needed to do
that for them to be successful,”

I ATHLETE-OF—THE—YEAR

. merit,

5' -’-5‘ -3

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

For Washington and Lee’s John
Morris, the 1990 tennis season had a
familiar ending.

In 1988, Morris played on the
team that won the NCAA Division
III national championship, the first
team national championship in any
sport in W&L’s history.

Last year, the senior from Mem-
phis, Tenn., was the NCAA Division
IH singles and doubles national cham-
pion, making him only the third
player to ever win both titles in the
same year.

At the 1990 national champion-
ships, held this past week at Swarth-
more College in Swarthmore, Pa.,
Morris, the No. 1 seed at the tourna-
was honored as the 1990
NCAA Division III Senior Player-of-
the-Year, an award based on voting
by Division III coaches.

On Saturday and Sunday, Morris
and his partner, junior Bill Meadows,
recorded a pair of upsets to win

‘ W&L’s second straight Division III

national doubles championship.

For his achievements, Morris has
been named The Ring-tum Phi’s Ath-
lcte-of-the-Year.

Morris’ three national champion-
ships ties the NCAA record for most
overall titles. Shaun Miller of Gus-
tavus Adolphus won the Division III
singles title in 1982 and doubles titles
in 1981 and 1982. ,

“John has outstanding ability, but

3 more importantly, he has a great

focus and an internal desire to be
successful,” said head coach Gary

    

John Morris

Franke.

“His forte is a really big serve,"
said Meadows of his doubles team-
mate. “When he’s serving well, no-
body can beat him. He’s an aggres-
sive player and he gets to the net a
lot. Once he’s there you’re pretty
much at his mercy.

“Morris is a great doubles player,
too.‘- He’s- been to the doubles-ifmals
three times,” Meadows continued.
“I've learned a lot from him. Playing
with him I ﬁlled the role as a scrap-
per with good enough serves and re-
turns to get some points.”

Morris, who won 20 straight
matches last year and was ranked No.
1 in the nation throughout the season,
was seeded first in last week's na-
tional singles championships, attempt-
ing to become the first player in
NCAA Division HI history to repeat
as men's singles champion.

Even though Morris lost to third-
seeded Scott Flippen—Read of Wash-
ington College 6-2, 6-1, in Saturday’s
semifinal round, neither Franke nor
Morris expressed much disappoint-

 

LOST

Antique Gold Pinky Ring
March 6, 1990
with three fine cut diamonds.

REWARD $100
contact 463-1958

    

The Rlng-tum Phl, May 24, 1990

 Morris, Meadows win title  

Franke said. “Most teams [at the
championships] tried to exploit Bill
because they lmow how good John is,
but Bill just had great returns and
overhead shots throughout the tourria-
ment.”

“Bill had an amazing tournament.
He deserves a lot of credit," said
Morris, who has played in the nation-
al doubles final three times.

This was the first year that Morris
and Meadows played together. During
the’ previous two seasons Morris
teamed with Matthews while Mea-
dows played with Robert Haley.

“It was a rough start for us and
things looked pretty bleak," Morris
said. “But, we got more and more
comfortable with each other."

“They had some good wins late
in the season. The turning point was
the win at Rollins," said Franke,
referring to the match at the Div-
ision H powerhouse on April 18.
“After that they realized they could
perform real well together and beat
some good teams.” .

It was the first season since 19
that the men’s team did not receive a
bid to the national tournament. The
Generals were ranked 13th and were
an alternate for the team champion-
ships. Twelve teams competed in the
tournament.

 

   

Bill Meadows
...NCAA doubles champion

“We’re happy with the ODAC
titleand ending up with a 7-7 record,
but from a team perspective it was
disappointing to not make to the
national toumament,” said Franke.

“We were one spot away from
getting in. Everybody really wanted
to go,” Morris said. “From what I
saw at the toumament, I thought we
could have hung in with some of the
teams there."

Morris was ranked third in the
final singles rankings, while he and
Meadows were honored with the No.
1 ranking in doubles.

From W&L Sports Information

The Washington and Lee’
4Xl00 relay team, which just
missed qualifying for the NCAA
Championship meet a week ago at
the Cavalier Invitational, qualified
for the meet by a margin of just
three‘-one hundredths of a second.

On Saturday at the Clemson
Invitational, the team of seniors
Wes Boyd, Tie Sosnowski and
Scott Williams along with junior
Carl Gilbert ran a fully automatic
time of 42.31 to come in just
under the qualifying standard.

The team competed in the
NCAA Championships at North
Central College in Napercille, Ill.
along with Gilbert, who qualiﬁed
in the triple jump beginning Wed-
nesday and running through Satur-
day.

The W&L golf team, compet-
ing in their second NCAA Cham-
pionships in the past three years,
has finished its first two rounds on
the lridian Mound Course in Jekyll
Island, Ga.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

o Ted  Kopet are
‘ pitc ‘  ' '

 

After two rounds, the Generals

were in a tie for seventh place
overall with a two-day score of
619.
Generals put together
rounds of 309 on Tuesday and 310
on Wednesday. Methodist, the
overall team leader, was in front
by 10 strokes with a two-day total
of 590.

Individually, the Generals are
being led by sophomore Clay
Thomas, the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Golfer-of—t1ie-
Year, who has a two-day total of
149 (73-76). Sophomore Brad
Thoburn shot his best round of the
season Wednesday to place him
second in the W&L contingency
with a 153. Tliobum shot a 74 to
follow his opening round 79.

Sophomore Jay McKnight is
third with a 157, and co-captairis

The verdict is in

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

 

This may not be my gripe, but it I'm taking it up anyway. The 1990
All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference nien’s lacrosse team was
armounced last week, and although four Generals were included on the
team, possibly the most deserving of the honor was left out.

Ninth-ranked Roanoke won the conference title by winning all five of
its games. Bill Pilat, an assistant at W&L the last time W&L finished a
season with a winning record, was selected by his peers as Coach-of-
the-Year.

This is my supposition — either his peers are blind, had their eyes
closed when they filled out the Coach-of-the-Year section of their ballots,
or are just plain stupid. Not that Pilat is to blame, but for at least one
obvious choice to be overlooked....

The four Generals, seniors Chris Mastrogiovanni, Carlos Millan, Mike
Nurian and four-tirne selection Reid Campbell were rightly rewarded for
their labors. But the man who put the players on the field and gave them
a structure that allowed them to win nine games against a schedule that
included eight teams ranked nationally in either Divisions I or III was
not.

The coach deserves some credit. In most leagues, a coach who directs
a turnaround of the magnitude that Jim Stagnitta did here at W&L is
rewarded for his work with Coach—of-tlie-Year honors.

Maybe he wasn't the most well liked coach around the country,
especially by officials. He yelled at calls and carried on like a man
possessed on the sideline. First-year coaches aren't supposed to react like
that. They are supposed to take things as they go until they can build
up a reputation.

Well, Jim Stagnitta did what he felt he had to do. He was trying to
turn a program around. To do that, he felt he needed to stick up for his
team when he felt they got a bad call. It may not be proper coaching
etiquette, but it is part of the job. A good coach sticks up for his team
any way he can. « .

It took real guts for the ODAC coaches to select as their Coach-of-
the-Year someone with a pat hand. Roanoke was everyone’s favorite to
win the conference, and they did. That deserves some merit, but Bill Pilat
didri’t do anything special. He had a decent year, and 8-6 is exactly
that — a decent year.

Jim Stagnitta had a great year. He knew nothing about the team, but
he knew what he wanted. He installed a patient, motion offense and a
pressure zone defense. As a result, the team scored 68 more goals than
in 1989 and had more assists (78) in 1990 than the 1989 team had goals
(77). The defense allowed one goal less per game in 1990, and the results
were obvious. -

Not to be overlooked is the job Stewart Moan did at Lynchburg. He
took his team to its best year ever, a year that included the 7-6 overtime
win over W&L that kept the Generals out of the playoffs.

This is not the first time the ODAC has made a blunder in selecting
a Coach-of-the-Year. In the past two years, only nine coaches named
Coach-of-the-Year in their sport coached teams that did not win the
conference championship, and only three this year.

Of the last six main seasons, football, basketball, and lacrosse, only
three of the six coaches who were selected were deserving of the honor.
In 1988, Gary Fallon guided W&L to a 5-3-1 season after starting 0-2-
1. Verne Canfield was honored in basketball after taking a team picked
fifth to a regular season title. In 1989, Randolph-Macon football coach
Jim Blackburn was rewarded after his team won the ODAC title after
being picked to finish last.

The other selections, Harnpden-Sydney lacrosse coach Ray Rostan
(1989), R—MC basketball coach Hal Nurmally and Pilat were safety picks
at best. Nunnally coached a team that finished the 1988-89 season ranked
in Division II. Both Roanoke coach Page Moir and Emory and Henry

 Jolmson did much better jobs than Nunrially did with teams

 and"

 

l62¢re’sp"ectively."7 

W&L’s best finish at the
NCAA championships came in
1977, when the Generals finished
seventh overall.

merit.

“I was a little disappointed, but I
_think I had a really good tour-
nament,” Morris said. “There was
some pressure to repeat and I was
most worried about getting through
the early rounds. I had nine good
matches and one bad one.

“I had a good season before the
tournament, but it was hard for me to
tell where my level of play was

before the championships," he ad-1
ded. “During the season I died not
to look too far ahead.”

Morris, who is trying to get into
medical school and who has played
tennis year-roiind since the age of
seven, said he will continue to play
as much as he can.

Congratulations to John Morris,
The Ring-tum Phi’s A[l1lClI6-0f-lh6-
Year.

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

Right

'“‘e

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

FHPAID T0 lNTERVlEW?!?

The real world can be pretty amazing. For
instance, you may never have considered
 But working as a temporary can
be a greatmy to starton your career
path. Becauseas a temp you‘l1 gain
exposure to trade associations,
international agencies and Fortune 500
companies. You'll actually be shopping the
job market. What's more amazing is. that
over the course of a summer you‘ll
probably be offered a job; in fact several
jobs! It's like a ‘try-before-you-buy‘
program. But, best. of all, you'll be earning
top dollar for your work while putting
your best foot Ion-mrd at each potential
employer. While other candidates are just
a resume - asheetofpaperin a pile -
you‘ll be a living breathing presence. So
welcome to the real world. Call us right

after you graduate!

EOE. Never a fee to candidates.

1617 King Street
Alexandria, VA 22314
(703) 683-9725

  
      
 

George’s
Hairstylist

_l36 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett’s

463-3975
We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell

Open Evenings
Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

Lip Synch Contest

THEY’RE HERE! VCR tapes of Lip Synch Contest (edited
version including all acts and Daytona championship perfor-
maiice of Love Natives). Tapes will be shown in:

GHQ TAVERN
Monday & Tuesday - May 28 & 29
Lunch: 1:00-2:00
Dinner: 6:00-7:00

Tapes may then be ordered atia cost of $10.00 each with net
proceeds going to Multiple Sclerosis Society.

  

  

 
 
 
  

 
 

     
 
  

 
 

      

- .. that were not as solid as Nuririally's and were clearly more deserving.

Let's face it, tliere’s more to being Coach-of-the-Year than just wirming
conference titles. Rostan doesri’t feel that this year's decision was made
on those grounds, but that it may be the case in other places. “I don't
think anyone voted for Bill simply because his team won the conference.
He had a great year. I also felt Stewart Moan at Lynchburg had a
tremendous year, and Jim at W&L had a great year. I told the committee
that all three were deserving of the honor.”

Said Moan, “I was pleased with the selection. Bill did a good job with ,

his team. I also thought that Jim Stagnitta did a fabulous job, and I'd like
to believe that I did a good job with our team. I’m sure the voting was
very close, and Billy may have won by one vote."

Stagnitta took a program that was a shell of its former self (W&L had
13 straight winning seasons from 1970-1982) that had suffered six losing
seasons in seven years and put it back on the map.

The choice of Jim Stagnitta as Coach-of-the-Year should have been as
plain as the nose on a normal persori’s face. The verdict is in: the ODAC
coaches are just plain stupid.

 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

LEE iii

Lee Hi Truck Stop

Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales

7o3_463_3478 Lee Hi Restaurant

  

1 -800-768-LEHI

WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION OR BIG
SCREEN TV PLUS RAISE UP TO $1.400
IN JUST 10 DAYS!

Objective: Fundraiser
Commitment: Minimal

Money: Raise $1,400
Cost: Zero Investment

Campus organizations, clubs, frats. sororities call
OCMC at 1-800-932-0528 I 1-800-950-8472 ext.10

as
E3

Graduation Day
Eucharist
at

R.E. Lee Episcopal Church
For Seniors, Family & Friends

Thursday, June 7
9:15 a.m. ,

 

BOBBY BERKSTRESSEFI

 

 
 

_\_l_V&L|FE

Lee’s College earns an A+

 

By Todd Peppers
Entertainment Columnist

Warning: this article sets a new
and dubious record for biased
opinions. Instead of remaining in my
little world of movie and restaurant
reviews, I have been given the task
of grading my four years at
Washington and Lee. Some of the
topics I will address span the last
four years, others pertain to a shorter
period of time. So, without further
ado, here is Peppers’ report card. The

I grades are ﬁnal and are not subject to

review.

The Speaking Tradition: Perhaps

; all seniors drone on about their fresh-

man year and bemoan the fact that
the younger students have lost touch
with tradition. I will plead guilty to
this charge, yet I honestly sense a
deﬁnite decline in theiart of greeting
a fellow student or faculty member.
Allow me to explain: when I visited
Washington and Lee in tlie spring of
1985, every young lady greeted my
tour with a dazzling smile and a
friendly hello. Of course I assumed
they were attracted to this Nebraska
farm boy. Then my tour guide ex-
plained the Speaking Tradition, and
my ego quickly deﬂated. Today the
younger generation of W & L student
seems panic—stricken and/or suspicious
when you say “hello.” They might
stare at the cloud formations, or
scrutinize their shoes, but eye contact
is rare. Come on kids, don’t force
us elderly students to revive the evil
Assimilation Committee. University
wide observance of the Speaking
Tradition earns an “B+”; freshman
participation receives a “C-."

Spectator: Where to start? This
delightful piece of political sophistry
has almost shamed me into hiding
my conservative tendencies. Last
week’s Phi demonstrated that I am
not alone in my contempt over this
“intellectual junk-food.” (Great line,
Shawn) Furthermore, this cranky
senior is tired of having a freshman
offer us poor slugs his divine truths.
The end of rational thought--I am too
mortified to reply. And if I read one
more moronic remark about the mid-

western devils that are plaguing the
administration, then this Nebraska
boy, and his Iowan father, are going
to teach the editors of Spectator a
good, old-fashioned, Nebraska football
chop-block. The witty, sophisticated,
and sage Spectator earns a solid
“F.” “Extremism in the defense of
liberty" may not be a vice, but con-
servative hysteria for the sake of
sensationalism is not a virtue.

The Student Activities Board: In
my lifetime I have witnessed the
silliest Fancy Dress Theme (“The
Reconciliation Ball”--about as ftm as
a “My Favorite Martian” Ball),
secret charge accounts, massive debt,
disgruntled letters in the Phi, and
SAB vs. Executive Committee war-
fare. But let's be honest: without
SAB intrigue, the front page of the
Phi would be as fascinating as the
appendix of an economics textbook.
My surprise grade: For pure entertain-
ment value and melodrama, the SAB
earns a solid “A.”

Co-Education at Washington and
Lee: During the last four years I
have, on numerous occasions, heard
W & L gentlemm present eloquent
speeches on the lost glories of
Washington and Lee. Guys, let's
take a reality break. When
Washington and Lee was on the brink
of co—education, we were trying to
get dates to our high school prom.
How can students yearn for a time
period that they never experienced?
How can students pine for an era
when our university was a member of
a dying breed? My class was the
second co—ed class at Washington and
Lee, and I knew gentlemen from the
last two all-male classes. In my
humble opinion, I have perceived a
definite rise in the quality and the
intellectual stamina of our students.
We have regained our former
academic stature in the eyes of the
nation. Let the question of co-educa-
tion disappear into the past, Washing-
ton and Lee tour guides are tired of
convincing prospective students that
we don't hate women. The move to
co~education, which I was not con-
sulted about, receives an “B+.” The
grade will be raised to an “A” when
this school moves to a 50-50 ratio.

   
   
  

Fast Lane Bowling:
Don’t Go Home Without It.

  Mid lii]l@hiilllll@1<dI mess
11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see ournew bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of

Routes 11 and 64
464-2695 I

The Fling-rum Phl, May 24, 1990

 

The Washington and Lee Faculty:
The next grade is not meant to assure
myself a nifty graduation present. We
are blessed with an outstanding facul-
ty. I have had rough professors,
demanding professors, and eccentric
professors, but I have not had medi-
ocre or average professors. Stop
playing a "prevent defense” with
your G.P.A. and go nose-to-nose with
some legends: Tom Nye in Biology,
Jolm “The Tail Gunner" Gunn in
Economics, Delos “Easy D" Hughes
and John Handelman in Politics,
Severn “Dog” Duvall in English,
Harrison “Pembie” Pernberton and
Charles Boggs in Philosophy, and,
ﬁnally, ole Reverend Hodges in Reli-
gion. You might not get a 4.0 from
these gentlemen, and they will put up
a fierce debate in the classroom, but
they will always pick you up and
dust you off. The Washington and
Lee faculty receive a grade of “A.”

Washington and Lee University:

Graduation is exactly two weeks _
away, and I'm already getting a lump
in my throat. I might sound like an

Admissions Office brochure, but this 4 pm.
place is a treasure. The sense of
tradition, honor, camaraderie, and
scholarship at Washington and Lee
leaves a mark on your so11l--I may be 8 p_m_

gushing, but it’s true. Our school
has its share of problems, no institu— SA
tion is perfect, but I would not trade

Confetti’s Events

Friday, May 25 4:00

Speaker: Victoria Bond, Music Director of the Roanoke Symphony
Orchestra and 1989 Virginia Woman of the Year. Lee Chapel.
Reception to follow in the Alumni House is open to females only.

Saturday, May 26 9:00

Confetti’s dance featuring Jimmy Bishop and the Turning Point.

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

May 25 to June 7

LECTURE: "Decisions and Priorities: How I
Accomplished ‘Firsts’ in My Career," Victoria Bond,
music director of the Roanoke Symphony Orchestra
Lee Chapel. Public invited.

PLAY: Romeo and Juliet. University Theatre. For
reservations, call theatre office. 463-8637.

 

my W & L sheepskin for mymmg  Romeo andJuliet. University Theatre.
Come cheer for the Washin ton and _ - . -
Lee experience: for Goshengand the 8 p.m. PLAY. Romeo and Juliet. University Theatre.
 .2:   
overs, for uMmph.. and parking 2 - 5 p.m. OPEN  AND READING: George Garrett, . .
tickets’ fm basketball games versus University of Virginia. Northen Auditorium, Ul‘lIV9I'Sll)
Roanoke and lacrosse games against I-Iblallﬂ Public |nVIl9d- .
Virginia Miiimy institute, for cheese- 7 p.m. SHAKESPEARE ON FILM: King Lear (1970, directed by
burger specials and “poims or cash," Peter Brook). Room 203, Reid Hall.
and--most importantly--for college 7 p.m. POLITICS FILMFEST: Twilight's Last Gleaming. Room
friendships. My last grade is predic- 221, Commerce School.
table: General Lee's College earns an 7 - 10 p.m. STANDARD FIRST AID COURSE (May 28 - 30):
“A+.” And, after a year of law 500-Level Classroom, Warner Center. Limited
5911001» 1'11 3PPT¢Ci3t¢ this P1800 m0Te- enrollment. Call Tom Jones, 463-8689.
8 p.m. PLAY: Romeo and Juliet. University Theatre.
ILl_E§.l2AI._lllIAX_22 1
All Day Library Automation Demonstration of the Innovative
Library System. Online public catalog sessions at 8
a.m. and 3:15 p.m. Northen Auditorium, University
Library.
7 & 8:30 p.m. ISRAELI FILMS: They Were Ten and Siege. Room 203,
Reid Hall.
7:30 p.m. LECTURE: “The Revolution in the Soviet Historical
Profession," Victor Bortnevskii, professor of history,
Leningrad State University, W&L visiting
international scholar. Northen Auditorium, University
Library. Public invited.
8 p.m. PLAY: Romeo and Juliet. University Theatre.
6:30 p.m. SENIOR NIGHT: Awards Ceremony, Lee Chapel.
Dinner, Alumni House Grounds.
8 p.m. PLAY: Romeo and Juliet. University Theatre.
THURSDAY MAY 31
7 p.m. SHAKESPEARE ON FILM: lﬁng Lear (directed by Grigo
Kozihtsev). Room 203, Reid Hall. E
l‘_R.LQAX._ilJ.lN.E_1
, Undergraduate classes end.
Undergraduate examinations begin.
MQIEAIELUNEA
Undergraduate examinations end.
II.JES_QAI._ilLl.N.E_5

 
   

  

  
 

  
 

 

9 a.m.
Library.
11 a.m.
INSURANCE 2-4p.m.
. Natlonwldoioonyouroldo 
__lﬂL&§QAl..:l.!NE1
E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN ;a,,,,_
‘9°'“ Tucker Hall.
203 South Main Street 1 1 am.

Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-771 9 Res: 463-4051

Senior grades due at 9 a.m.

WEDNESDAY, JUNE §

FACULTY MEETING: Nozthen Auditorium, University

BACCALAUREATE SERVICE: Speaker: James C. '
Fenhagen, presidem, General Theological
Seminary, New York. Front Lawn.

LUNCHEON ON THE LAWN.

PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION. Lee House.

TOURS OF HISTORIC FRONT CAMPUS BUILDINGS.

MILITARY COMMISSIONING CEREMONY. Front Lawn,

COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES: Speaker: W&L
President John D. Wilson. Front Lawn.

WILLSON—i

WALKER

HOUSEil“”“i§

Restaurant

Reservations are recommended

30 N. Main St., Lexington

463-3020

    
   
  
  

 
  
  

 
    
  

  

‘..

  

The Jefferson

 
 

the

Florist to the Homestead
Ten East Nelson
463-9841

Now at our new location...

Wishes all the best
to W&L ’s '90 grads.

Tell us

3101811013’
efferson 

  

1?tneD1;tiei1te

I ll AIUSPIM SWIM
.‘OvotlOyvonolqool0lyhoJ"
ITIAIS 0 IIAIIIID 0 CIIKZKIN
GIEIHMMNUIIXALTIB
.¢-aurevriuvu

£333..-....i.u..
butternut

§0iirHrc.ii
____ as

¢C1$ ﬁll IIMIMVQ

UPS

UPS
UPS  

Dear Parentals,
Spring Terms A Go.
Studying, Yes
Failing, No!
Stuff To Send,
Nowhere To Stowe.
Please Send Dough!
Love Me

  
   
  
  
  
    
    
 
     
    
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
      
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
     
  
  
  
   
  
   
 

C

§‘C“-

  
   
    
   
  

        

       
     
    
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

  

J. 
a .

  

. .3   :-

  
  
 

xx‘

  

   
 
 

  
 

  
  
 

 
 
 

 

P
.& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson, Lexington
Open DaiIy10AM-6PM
Sunday Noon-6PM

   

   
 

laaﬁhiv

      
  

