‘ the one that resulted in the removal

Awh« -
4 379. 75>
/2552

ldgg

 Hoopsters beat Hampsters, 76-6

VOLUME 89, NO. 12:

Nash
talks
hazing

By Brian Root
Sénlor Copy Editor

 

A pledge “scavenger hunt,” like

of one fraternity from Virginia Tech
several weeks age, should not be
allowed to happen at Washington and
Lee, said Interfraternity Council Presi-
dent Kevin Nash at Tuesday's IFC
meeting.

“It just goes to show how what
can happen with something that
seems like nothing but a good time,”
said Nash.

Virginia Tech’s chapter of Delta
Kappa Epsilon sent its pledges to
Ohio, where they had to take a pic-
ture of one pledge with a black wom-
an.

“We can’t allow any of that kind
of stuff to go on here,” Nash said
“Make sure you keep control of any
guys in your house who want to do
that kind of thing.”

Under the stipulations of the IFC
constitution, mandatory pledge activi-
ties are prohibited until the beginning
of Winter Tenn in January.

Nash also asked the fraternities to,
as they have in past years, contribute
canned foods to the annual Christmas
Basket charity. The drive, which is
run entirely in the Lexington/Rock-
bridge County area, delivers packages
of food to needy area families.

Nash asked that each fraternity

Zip me up, dear?
Junior Bernadette Kempton helps senior Christian
Eckman into his costume for a rehearsal of the

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVEKRISITY

D please see ":c page 5 University Theatre’s Christmas production, Aladdin.

   
         

 tNrv'E‘Rst‘rv L.lE‘l"..l,RY

\!.|,'t.,3'§.,‘t-l9t-~;:3l‘l’!l\l :. LEE wt‘./1: H341 "ti"

:.;:.xsr~;tar-:.a-. VA. 2445“

ilEC. 1 i989

A story on the play, and other holiday activities in
Lexington, appears on page 10. Staff photo by

Chris Leiphart.

7 — See page 7

Chi: ﬂing-tum 13 i

LEXINGTON.VIRG|N|A

Scarborough 9
lead found

Robbery victim may have
answer in hit-and-run case

By James Lake and
Nick Thompson
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Lexington police say the driver
responsible for the hit-and-run death
of a Washington and Lee freshman
March 16 may have been involved in
a robbery that same night.

Police said evidence showed Mary
Ashley Scarborough was struck and
killed by a 1986 or 1987 blue Honda
Accord.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce M.
Beard said his department received a
tip that three black males robbed a
blond white male about 5-foot-8 to
5-foot—lO inches tall in the East Nel-
son Street area about three minutes
before Scarborough was killed.

According to Beard, the police
believe the robbers took a gold chain,
a wallet and $250 in cash from the
victim.

fled on foot to a car similar to the
one that hit Scarborough. The car is
said to have ﬂed the area at a high
rate of speed, said Beard.

Beard said two of the three rob-
beiy suspects are in jail on unrelated
charges. But he said police have not
been able to find the victim of the
robbery, and that victim’s testimony
might be needed to corroborate the
information and to link the robbery

‘83 W&L grad murdered in South America

 

By Brian Root
Senlor Copy Editor

Todd Smith, a 1983 graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee, was tortured and murdered by
suspected communist insurgents in Peru as he
was investigating the drug trade in that coun-
try for a news story.

Smith, the editor of The Ring-tum Phi in
1983, had gone to Peru on his vacation to
conduct his investigation. Smith, the editor of
The Ring-tum Phi in 1983, had gone to Peru
on his vacation to conduct his investigation

Smith was last seen alive Nov. 17, as he
was leaving for an airport in the city of
Uchiza, about 250 miles northeast of Lima,
Peru.

He was not seen for four days, until his
body was found tied hand and foot in the
central square of a small town in the Hual-
laga Valley in the central portion of the coun-
try.

According to reports, Smith had been
strangled, shot and beaten.

The body was found with a sign that read
“In this way die North American spies linked
to the Pentagon who are carrying out an anti-
subversive in Latin America and especially in
Peru.”

Investigators suspect Smith ww killed by

 l
What’s inside...

the communist insurgent group the Shining
Path, which has also been connected with the
drug trade in that country.

Sally Bowen, a reporter for an English-
language newspaper in the area, said Smith
may have been mistaken for a law—enforce-
merit agent.

“There are very few gringos up there,”
Bowen said. “He (Smith) looked uncon1fort—
ably like what a Peruvian would think a Drug
Enforcement Administration agent looks like.”

“It’s an area where any outsider is sus-
pect,” said Washington Post correspondent
Michael Smith. “They could easily take you
for a DEA agent.”

‘‘I’m convinced, at least personally, they
(the Shining Path) didn’t really think he was
guilty," said Dave Dudka, W&L ‘81, a friend
of Smith’s. “These are not the kind of people
who care whether or not you’re guilty.”

The Huallaga area is notorious for its law-
less nature.

“Uchiza is a city which we do not spend
time in,” said U.S. State Department official
Charles Loveridge. “There’s no American or
Peruvian police presence there.”

The small number of army units in the
area, said Loveridge, is more concerned with
fighting the insurgency than curtailing the
drug trade.

Although more than 47 Peruvian jour-

nalists have been killed while investigating
the Peruvian drug trade since the rise of the
Shining Path in 1980, Smith is the first
American journalist to be killed.

Smith came to W&L in 1979, and was an
English major, but took several journalism
courses and participated in a journalism
internship program, as well as serving as the
editor of The Ring-tum Phi his senior year.

Smith, who spoke Spanish ﬂuently, was
keenly interested in Latin American affairs. In
1981, he studied at the Instituto Fenix lan-
guage school in Cuemavaca, Mexico. He also
won the Lee Scholarship for Latin American
research at the Library of Congress.

Following graduation, Smith worked for
the St. Petersburg (Fla.) Times for three years.
In 1987, Smith left the paper and became a
freelance reporter specializing in Latin Ameri-
can affairs.

While in Central America, Smith traveled
with the Nicaraguan contras for 10 weeks and
wrote a series of stories that appeared in the
Tampa Tribune.

“He’s been very interested in Latin Amer-
ica for years,” said Tribune assignment editor
Diane Egner. “He wanted to go down to Peru
because he felt it was ripe territory for an
ambitious reporter. I told him it was very
dangerous and to take a real vacation. But he

Cl Please see SMITH page 6

Tdd Smith

...killed while researching
story on drug trafficking Peru

CRC considers policy changes

According to the tip, the robbers '

NOVEMBER 30, 1989

suspects to Scarborough's death.

The Scarborough family is offer-
ing a $10,000 reward for information
leading to the arrest and conviction of
the driver responsible for Scar-
borough’s death.

Scarborough was killed as she
was walking south on Washington
Street near the police station around
2 a.rn.

According to police reports, the
car that hit Scarborough was traveling
west on Washington Street at the
time of the incident. Scarborough was
taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital,
where she was pronounced dead.

After the incident, police
contacted several other area colleges
and asked them to search for the
Honda.

In addition, the Virginia Depart-
ment of Motor Vehicles provided the
police with a list of every 1987 Hon-
da registered within a 75-mile radius
of Lexington, and every Honda deal-
ership was asked to notify police of
any Honda fitting the description
which needed repair work.

Despite the lengthy investigation,
this is the first major lead in the case
the police have made public.

Beard asked that anyone with
information about either the
hit-and-run incident or any robbery
that night contact the Lexington Po-
lice Department.

114 girls
to rush
in winter

By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

 

Almost 75 percent of the fresh-
man women registered for sorority
rush following a rush information
session on Sunday, Nov. 12, spon-
sored by the Panhellenic Association.

Of the 145 freshman women, 108
had registered by Friday, Nov. 17.

Five upperclass women also
registered, putting the total number
of women going through rush at 114.
This January is the first formal rush
for Chi Omega, Kappa Kappa Garn-
ma, and Kappa Alpha Theta as well
as the newly colonizing Delta Garn-
ma.

The first mandatory PHA rush
information session took place Sun-
day, Nov. 12, freshmen, as well as
some upperclass women, attended and
received an information packet put
out by the PHA.

The women were provided with
rush rules, dates, and a registration
form due Nov. 17.

Jane Lee Joyce, president of the
PHA, was very positive about the

“The idea is just to make the process
better," he said. “I don’t think there _will

rush registration.
“[There was] a great turnout, it

rejection of such conduct is used as the
basis for an employment or educational

4 News

By James Lake
Associate Editor

' University ofﬁcials presented plans for the be anything major.” . . . ‘ decision affecting an individuals. was fantastic," Joyce said.
~ - - - Under W&L’s existin “Universit ' ' Wash" t dL ’ thr —
Fraternity Renaissance to the city of Lexington . ,, .g . y The WW» PT°P°5°d 95531110“ lakes 0"‘ , , ‘Pg 0" an 8° 5 '36 Sow’
¢ last woekm see page 5 Washington and Lee is considering Policy on Harassment, which includes the the refcrcnce to “conduct of 3 physical ities unanimously approved a delay-

definitions the CRC now follows, racial and
ethnic harassment “include, but are not
restricted to, actions that use ethnic, racial
and religious characteristics as a basis for
discrimination against an individual in any
cotirse, program or activity."

But, under the proposed guidelines,
“ethnic, religious, racial and sexual harass-
ment includes, but is not limited to, threats
or actions that are intended to use ethnic,

several changes to the policies of the Confi-
dential Review Committee, including adding

nature” and instead refers to “verbal or
physical acts of a sexual nature” that are
committed “by force, threat or intimida-
tion” or “through the use of a victirn’s
mental or physical condition or incapacity
of which the perpetrator was, or should
have been, aware."

According to John, the revisions group
is concerned the existing examples may not
be detailed enough.

ed rush period for DG.

Courtney Payne, the PHA Mem-
bership Selection Committee Chair-
man, said, “this is the way sororities
on most campuses colonize.”

The PHA provided each sorority
with a list of pros and cons for the
delayed rush of DG, prior to voting
on the issue.

The PHA suggested it might be in

Lexington’s Downtown is losing a Leggett’s _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ H
i but gaining a new courthouse and a new pet store racial discrimination 1Il. social activities to
 see page 5 the list of what is considered harassment.
’ The CRC, a committee of three stu-
' ' dents and four faculty members that investi-
I  gates claims of sexual, racial or religious
v The Ring-tum Phi asks Santa to pay W&L a harassment of students, met Tuesday night
visit —- after all, we've earned it... See page 2 With Dsaﬂ Of Students Lewis John I0 dis-
cuss possible changes in the CRC’s guide-

, Jon sbar actually has 3 rcal topic this week lines. racial, religious or sexual characteristics” in “ ‘Conduct’ is probably too broad or the best interests of the currently
(but only because his cditor demanded ono)___ see That meeting was held to consider one of three ways: to “insult, harm, embar- nebulous a term," he said established sororities to rush before
' page 3 changes that had already been proposed by rass or demean"; to “create a hostile or The proposed guidelines also say scxual DG.

an ad hoc committee of John; Religion
Prof. Louis Hodges, who was the chairman
of the committee that heard appeals of CRC
sentences last year; and CRC Chairman
Steven Hobbs. That group has been study-
ing possible changes in W&L’s definitions
of harassment and in the procedures the

intimidating environment”; or to
“discriminate against an individual or group
in any course, program, or social activity.”
These proposed changes are designed to
give more detail to the existing definitions,
John said.
“The idea is to say these things are part

harassment “involves elements of coercion,
threat, and/or unwanted attention in a non-
reciprocal relationship.”

John said the existing definitions are
“largely employment-related" and said the
revisions group is trying to create “better
working definitions” that would apply to

With delayed rush for DG, the
other three sororities would not be
forced to compete with the colonizing
sorority’s national representatives.

However, the PHA also said it
may be in the rushees’ best interests
for all four sororities to rush concur-

Spons

W&L’s basketball season is only four games
‘ old, but junior Craig Hatfield is already in mid-
season form... See page 8

, The men's and women’s swimming teams are CRC follows in investigating complaints, of harassment,” he said. “It is not an students as well as university employees. rently, S0 they haV6 3 Chance K0 566
off to a fast start... See page 8 John said. exhaustive list.” But he said he hopes the new rules will all Of the S0r0rili6S before they make
* And, at Tuesday's meeting, the CRC Also, the CRC is considering further also focus more on the intent than simply 6 Choice-

and John considered and revised the work
of the ad hoc committee. Those suggestions

changes in its definition of sexual harass-
ment, which now reads: “sexual harass-

Forrnal rush for all four sororities
will begin Sunday, January 14 with

. W&Life

the effect of any conduct brought before the
CRC. “That is, I think, an important is-

. New Potato Caboose pulls into W&L Friday will, after further discussion with Hodges, ment includes but is not restricted to unwcl- sue,” John said, “not to penalize the unin- Open h011S€s for the registered
night for 1h‘? Sludem AC11V1h¢s Board's Christmas be forwarded to university President John come advances, requests for sexual favors, tentional comment or the conversation that's fushecs.
Weekend °°n°°“--~ 366 Page 5 Wilson and Vice President John Elrod. or other verbal or physical conduct of a carried on intellectually.” The three sororities currently

sexual nature when submission to such con-
dtict is made either explicitly or implicitly

According to John, the CRC’s propos-
als reflect concerns expressed during and

To that end, John said, the CRC also
recommended adding the following sen-

operating will continue their rush

“Back to the Future Part II” docsn’t live up functions that week, while DG will

to the original, says Phi reviewer Todd Peppers... after CRC hearings last year and a consen- a term or condition of an lndivlduays tences to its deﬁnition of harassment; “In- wait until the following week to
See page 9 sus that the CRC’s operating rules and employment or smug in 3 course‘ program tent can be determined by consideration of continue its presentation.
, definitions can made more precise. or activity; or [when] submission to or E] Please see CRC page 5 [3 please See pHA page 5

‘ . I l I

 

 

  OPINION

Makin’ our list,
cheekin’ it twice

Dear Santa,

Here at Washington and Lee, we’ve all been good boys
and girls this year — well, most of the time. To reward
us for all our manifold good deeds, we expect you to
deliver the following gifts_ to the following folks on
Christmas Eve:

To Alex Hitz — a permanent staff and a calculator

To Buddy Atkins — a Christmas that not only looks
weird, but is weird

To Kevin Nash — a better Phi mug shot

To Willard Dumas — applause, solitude and 93 cents for
the “Willie in ‘90” campaign

To the lnterfratemity Council — fall Rush forever

To Lexington City Council — a copy of the Virginia
Code, with the section on personal property taxes
highlighted

To university President John Wilson — many thanks for
the great student activities fund bailout of 1989

To Prof. Jefferson Davis Futch III — a subscription to
the Village Voice

To the journalism department -- health

To Prof. Smith — a Christmas Ham

To Jon Sbar — rubber dog vomit, a metric ruler and a
sledgehammer

To Jon Sbar’s editor — a bigger sledgehammer.

To would-be Homecoming Queens from women’s col-
leges — applications to W&L

To Frank Parsons — a multilevel sub-Colonnade parking
lot

To Jim Stagnitta —- luck and Neill Redfem

To Dennis Daly —— an office

To Michael Walsh — a new accent and a new jacket

To Charles Conklin — full attendance at SAB events

To the Calyx — continuous open senior-photo sign-ups

To the Commerce School — an exam schedule as flexible
as Newcomb Hall’s '

To the Career Development and Placement Office — an
introduction to the campus beyond the C-School

To Prof. Shillington — his own Homecoming date_

To the authors of the W&L Self-Study -— a large state
university of their very own

To Prof. Gunn — a bigger office and a maid

To the brothers of Phi Delta Theta — as many pledges as
they want

To Jon Sheinberg —- we beseech you continuing growth
in your vocabulary . . . 

To Alex Hitz —- a replacement staff for the permanent
staff that just quit and another calculator ‘ I‘ ’

To Dean soon-to-be-professor John — fewer headaches
and less paperwork

To the Spectator —- a computer with spell—check

To Marshall Coleman — 7,001 votes

To Prof. Wheeler — perfect class attendance after the first
seven weeks of Fall Term

To W&L’s sororities — shorter meetings and somewhere
to have ‘em

To Prof. Merchant —— Dallas Cowboys season tickets

To Virginia Military Institute — the joys of coeducation

To W&L - a renewed Speaking Tradition

To Alex Hitz —- more batteries for the calculators

To Prof. Atwood — a Rolex to replace his old one and
a better lock for his gym locker

To us — last call at the Palms on Wednesdays

Thanks, Santa. We’ll be waiting.

Quote of the week

“The auction was a huge success. It was much more
than we hoped for. The girls went absolutely insane. No
skin was bared, but the girls did enjoy the merchandise.”

— Allen Richardson, Superdance Committee co—chair-
man, describing the enthusiastic reactions of Southern
Seminary students at the recent “slave auction” of W&L
men and VMI cadets to raise money.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 30, 1989

we”, wg took -the best
attribufeg For & C.oncIUCI'

- Secrec._q

_ ‘- $tucIen'l'S rzpreszntigq 
‘ 'F4cUI'I:-i,*I7of‘...uh,I-&oh'£l<Nm¢f. 

committee and assembled TC. _ -
-For P(‘OTCCt§On //  /

1 , ‘V
x . '1

/

X\\‘\vl\_\-\\\\ .

What men really talk about

Sports is just a front for bowel movements and random sex

A Topical Sbar Side
By Jon Sbar

According to my editor, whose idea of a good
time is reading The Wall Street Journal, my writ-
ing needs to be more “topical.” I did not mind
this advice because I can take criticism (as long
as there are no weapons readily available). In fact,
I would say that hearing criticism became my
specialty after I overheard my fifth grade teacher
telling the principal that I deserved to be tortured
with electric kitchen appliances. The same day that
I eavesdropped on this conversation, my teacher's
car was mysteriously vandalized with rotten eggs,
molasses, and a sledgehammer. (I mean, the
authorities suspected that a sledgehammer was
used.) Naturally, this was only a coincidence; I
can take criticism (I didn't even own a sled-
gehammer when I was in ﬁfth grade; who cares if
my. best friend Jimmy had two.) ‘

mind my editor’s criticism, I have decided to write
about something topical. According to a joumalis-
tic deﬁnition that I just now made up, a “topical”
writer is “one who is able to write about some-
thing important that just happened, like a random
sexual encounter or a bowel movement."

While it's neither topical nor interesting, I feel
compelled to discuss this uncontrollable male at-
traction to discussions dealing with bowel mov-
ements and random sexual encounters. Now I’m
sure that there are thousands of women shaking
their heads and exclaiming in disbelief, “What is
he talking about, my dad (or boyfriend, brother,
plumber, lab partner, etc.) has never once in his
life mentioned these things; all he ever talks about
is sports.” I understand this protest because men
only discuss bowel movements and random sexual
encounters during those important moments of
male bonding, quickly changing the subject to
sports whenever a female approaches.

Joe (talking to a group of friends): “Yeah,
and last night this attractive large—breasted blonde

my house and takes off all of her clothes. I
undressed too, and before you know it, right there
on the kitchen table we're having...” (suddenly
Joe sees his sister approaching) “uh, hrrrrnrn, oh
yeah, we're having an argument about the best
running back in the NFL..."

To prove to myself that I can handle criticism
without becoming violent (and reaching for the
sledgehammer in my closet; I'm just joking, I
don't even own a sledgehammer), I must discuss
something that will satisfy my editor’s need for
topical writing such as the recent W&L campus
snack bar disaster.

“A disgruntled Co-op student-employee, who
said she was fed-up with point cards, wooden
nickels, Colonnade Cups and other Co-op para-
phernalia, entered the Co-op yesterday with a
double-blade battle ax and destroyed the yogurt
machine, the chicken ﬁllet grill and my editor."

Of course, I'm only kidding about my editor (I
can take criticism; I just wish I could find my

To show that I'm a good sport and that I don't

woman, whom I had never seen before, walks into

sledgehammer).

Self-worship versus God-worship

MY VIEW

By Leila Shatara and
Ted Smith

Despite all the religious denom-
inations in our society, there are es-
sentially two forms of worship —
worship of God and self-worship. A
person who believes in God (truly
believes in God as shown by placing
God as his ultimate priority) is re-
lieved of worldly pressures. On the
other hand, a narcissist spends his life
feeding his ego with false securities
such as money, clothes, cars, etc.

In today's society, the narcissist
earns more respect, because outwardly
he appears to “have it all.” The rich,
powerful, and the “educated” are
highly esteemed, while the poor,
hungry, and homeless are despised.
Why? Society teaches us to worship
that green piece of paper (in India,

 

they worship cows, but in America
we worship green slips of paper) and
all those who possess it.

Security is placed in money,
appearance, social status and all the
other beneﬁts that come with this. Do
you select rich or poor persons for
friends? Do you prefer to be around
“good-looking" or “plain” people?
Do you strive to reach the top of
success’ ladder? How many of us
strive to serve our fellow men and
women? How many of us would take
our “wisdom" to a ghetto where
your services would be greatly
needed? Or, how many of us will be
sitting on our butts in air-conditioned
offices, making big bucks, becoming
highly successful as well as highly
neglectful people?

Depending on how you answered
the aforementioned questions, you
should be able to indicate to yourself
whom you worship — God or your-
self (you can not worship both, it's
either-or). .

Belief in God is more than Sab-

bath-day rituals, saying prayers, hav-
ing religious studies, getting seminary
degrees, etc. It is a way of life
geared to serve your neighbor. If a
person truly believes in God, he
places little or no emphasis on the
external means of security — looks,
necessity to “fit in,” success in the
material world, etc. They only gear
you to better serve yourself. By plac-
ing your trust in God, He gives you
an eternal means of security that
manifests itself through love, kind-
ness, long-suffering, peace, and good-
will for your neighbors. This is the
only true means of security.

Once this basis of security is
established, your wisdom (true wis-
dom) begins. True wisdom is not
found by going to a prestigious
university. How can you claim a
distinction of going to any prestigious
educational institution that only fos-
ters increased selﬁshness?

If you want to learn selﬁshness,
you do not have to spend up to
$20,000 per year. It would be easier

join the Church of Satan. Its mem-
bers are specialists in self-worship
and all other things that this foolish-
ness entails. On the other hand, wis-
dom ﬂows from realizing that faith
in God is the only basis of security.
This wisdom manifests itself through
knowledge not only of how to better
serve yourself, but also of how to
gear your services to best help your
neighbor. Today's society is in des-
perate need of this knowledge; the
knowledge that God comes ﬁrst.

Will today's society fall prey to
the same evils — narcissism, greed,
selﬁshness, etc. — that have befallen
all of the other “great” empires in
history? Does today's society realize
that we can look at the rise and fall
of the “great” empires in history and
see one train they all share -— narcis-
sism resulting in the killing of others
as well as the destruction of the
empire itself? Will today's choice be
self-worship or worship of God? If
today's choice is narcissism, tomor-
row’s choice is death.

Tilt: iliirtg-tum iﬂlri

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Editors .................................................... ..Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison
Associate Editors .................................... ..Jarnes Lake, Genienne Mongno
Assignment Editor ...................................................................... ..Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor ...................................................... ..Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor ........................................................... ..Pamela Kelley
Sports Editor ............................................................................. ..Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor ................................................................... ..Brian Root
Editorial Cartoonist ............................................................. ..Jeff Woodland
Business Manager .................................................................. ..Arme Dysart
Advertising Manager .............................................................. ..Jason Kelley
Circulation Manager .................................... ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other subrrrissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi ofﬁce,
Room 208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in
that week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

Independents
thank donors
for turkeys

The Independent Union would like to thank
the Washington and Lee University administra-
tion, faculty, dorm counselors, resident assis-
tants, College Republicans, Minority Student
Association, brothers of Chi Psi, Pi Kappa
Alpha, Pi Kappa Phi, and Sigma Nu, sisters of
Chi Omega, and Kappa Alpha Theta, residents of
Gaines Hall, and freshmen for their donations to
the “Two for Turkey” food drive.

The Independent Union would like to extend
a special thanks to Dean John, Mrs. Fallon, and
the Harris Teeter management. Without their
assistance, and patience, the food drive would
not have been a success.

The Independent Union, because of the afore-
mentioned people, raised $1450. The $1450
enable the Independent Union to deliver a ﬁfteen
pound turkey, can goods, dry food, bread, fruit
and vegetables to 30 needy families in the
Rockbridge County vicinity. Also, the Indepen-
dent Union presented the Gladys Steele Shelter
with ﬁve turkeys, and $140 worth of food.

The Independent Union would like to wish
everyone a Merry Christmas, and a Happy New
Year. Again, thanks to all who contributed

LETTERS

money to the “Two for Turkey" food drive.

Sincerely,

Thomas Brubaker, '90
Bob Martin, '90

John Vitorri, '90

Mother calls for
sober driving

You have plans for your life — goals to
reach -— a brilliant future...

So did Linda Lancaster, a doctoral candidate
at the University of Maine in Orono, Maine. On
Feb. 18, 1989, the drunken driver of a pickup
truck struck her down as she walked along a
sidewalk. Linda died three hours later.

All her goals and plans for the future were
wiped out in one senseless moment of drunken
violence — a violence our legislatures have yet
to recognize as murder — and our courts of law
waiver over justice for the victim.

You have plans for your life — but, take a
moment as you walk across campus to ponder
your chances of becoming the random victim of
a drunken driver. We all carry the same risk, as
did Linda. But with your help we can keep our
streets and sidewalks safe. -

Take a stand. Refuse to ride with an intoxi-
cated driver. Volunteer to drive a friend who has
partied too much. Write your congressmen to

John Durant, '90
Tim Place, '90

initiate deterrent legislation against killer drivers:
no time off for good behavior — no suspending
half a sentence — no plea bargaining.
Do something positive, if not for yourself or
for a friend, then for someone who loves you.
Keep your future alive!

Sincerely,
Russell and Eleonor Nicholson,
Parents of Linda Lancaster

Professor busts
on editorial

A recent editorial, “Time to take some time
off," contained the following sentence: “After
six or seven weeks of classes, students’ interest
begins to wane and skipping class becomes a
reasonable alternative." To indicate to the rest of
the world that Washington and Lee students are
unable to maintain their attention and work span
longer than six or seven weeks is both embar-
rassing and unjust to the university community
at large. To indicate to parents, corporate read-
ers and others that skipping class after such a
strain is a “reasonable alternative” boarders on
the irresponsible.

Sincerely,
Lyn Wheeler
Associate Professor of Accounting

-f

V

>

O

4

 

 
 
  
 

V

 

iReporter lauds
;W&L’s Todd Smith

JMY VIEW
,By Brian Root

I This week, I wrote a news story
,about Todd Smith, W&L ‘83, a
journalist who was brutally murdered
‘in Peru by communist rebels. The
‘more I found about Todd, the more I
respected him. I wish I could have
met him.
Todd’s job with the Tampa Tri-
bune was to report on local govem-
*ment. The paper owed him some
vacation time, so what did he do? He
went to Peru to write a story expos-
ring the Peruvian drug trade, which he
considered largely ignored by the
media.
r Todd Smith was a journalist. One
of the best, bravest journalists I've
“encountered. That’s what journalism
‘is all about. Having the guts to go to
South America to find out the truth
‘about the drug trade that hasn't been
‘reported by the high—profile news
readers on the networks.
7 You know the saddest part? Had
‘Todd been able to write the story,
statistics tell us the vast majority of
«us wouldn’t bother to read it in the
‘paper anyway.
While he was a freelance reporter,
pTodd traveled with the Nicaraguan
contras for 10 weeks. He went into
’combat with them, so he could tell us

I - ‘more about who these people really

were and what their war was like.
Regarless of whether you like the
whims or not, the issue is an impor-
tant ont. To make an informed opin-
ion about an issue, you have to know
the facts. How do you learn the

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 30, 1989

When I say journal-
ism, I sure as hell
don ’t mean Dan
Rather.

facts? If you're lucky, you get some-
one who has courage enough to go
where the news happens, rather than
from Dan in New York.

I’ll say it again. That’s what real
journalism is all about. That’s what I
want to do when I grow up.

I hope I have the kind of dedica-
tion to be able to search for the facts,
even when I know a hell of a lot of
people don’t give a damn.

If I had a dime for every time
I’ve been told how useless journalism
is, both here at W&L and the world
in general, I would be a rich man.

I defy you to learn what I have
about Todd Smith and then tell me
how superﬂuous journalism is.

1 must make an important distinc-
tion here. When I say “journalism,”
I don’t mean opinion articles, I don’t
mean Geraldo Rivera and I sure as
hell don’t mean Dan Rather. I mean
Todd Smith.

I have but one request. After you
graduate and are working at some
random investment bank, don't just
turn on the evening news and write
off all journalism and journalists.

What Todd Smith was doing is,
at least in my rather biased opinion,
every bit as vital to our democracy as
every investment bank and C-School
major.

Questioning
CRC validity

MY VIEW
By John S. Stump

Paul Lagarde’s article in the December issue of the
Washington and Lee Spectator raises many important
questions concerning the nature, purpose and validity of
the Conﬁdential Review Committee. We all want to see
a community at Washington and Lee that is free of
harassment, but do we need the CRC? If we do, then
certainly Dean Anne Schroer-Larnont, Dean Anece
McCloud and Professor Steven H. Hobbs, the head of the
committee, will be able to tell us why. In the interest of
quelling the mounting student and faculty anger over the
cloud of vagueness and secrecy surrounding the CRC, I
ask Professor Hobbs to provide the community with clear
answers to the following questions:

1. Could you provide us with a statement of pur-
pose?

2. Could you identify the reasons for the creation of
an alternate disciplinary committee?

We all want to see a com-
munity at Washington and Lee
that is free of harassment, but
do we need the CRC?

3. Is it your belief that this committee will be better
able to deal with certain cases? If so, why?

4. Who are the members of the CRC?

5. Why were they chosen?

6. Why aren’t the students entrusted to elect those
members?

7. What powers does the CRC have?

8. Do the members of the CRC adequately reflect the
attitudes and opinions of the majority of the students of
Washington and Lee?

9. What are the rights of the accused?

10. Do you think that the accused can be guaranteed
a fair trial when judged by a body of unelected students
and faculty who are in no way accountable for their
judgments?

11. What constitutes sexual harassment? What con-
stitutes racial harassment?

12. Does secrecy increase the “faimess" of a trial?

Pro-life: abortion more than just a woman’s choice

MY VIEW

By Damon Fensterman

Indeed, the debate does go on. Professor
Pamela Simpson’s editorial in the last Ring-
tum Phi was a solid piece of journalism. She

. stated the pro—choice position clearly, but it
is precisely for that reason that I must

' respond. Prof. Simpson made some asser-
tions which I simply carmot accept.

' First, I take issue with her position on

the fetus. Although she correctly states that
no one really knows when the fetus becomes

L a living human being, it doesn't follow that
we should therefore abort without concern
for the life of the fetus.

I The fact is, as technology has advanced,
fetuses have become viable at earlier and
earlier stages. Children born as early as the
6th month are surviving to lead normal lives.
As that line moves back, we must reevaluate

*where life begins.

‘ There is no question that it begins much
earlier than was once thought. I think Prof.

4‘ Simpson would admit that life begins before
birth. My contention is that since we are so

‘unsure about where that line is, the presump-

4Il0I1 should be in favor of the unborn child.

Second, Prof. Simpson’s position on the

‘dangers of illegal abortion is highly suspect.

‘She uses emotive language to paint a picture
of poor, innocent mothers being “murdered”

By Merrill Watson

if there is no legal abortion. But this picture
is simply not borne out in reality. If a
woman chooses to undergo a medical proce-
dure (whether illegal or not), she is responsi-

_ ble for the consequences. If she dies, it is

certainly not because the state “murdered”
her.

Moreover, the figures which Prof. Simp-
son uses grossly exaggerate the dangers of
illegal abortion. I found figures from the
National Center for Health Statistics showing
the number of deaths resulting from illegal
abortions was five per 1,000 abortions
(compared to Prof. Simpson’s 100 per
1,000). Finally, Prof. Simpson’s position is
based on the false assumption that legal
abortion removes the dangers of illegal
abortions.

The fact is, illegal abortions have con-
tinued despite legalization. Although the
number has decreased, it seems that it will
not drop below a certain level.

In addition, Prof. Simpson would have
you believe that every person who would get
an abortion today would have an illegal
abortion if they had to. That is simply not

‘ the case. In fact, following the legalization of

abortion, one less illegal abortion meant 18
more legal abortions. This fact raises two
questions. First, would a prohibition (espe-
cially one with legitimate exceptions) really
cause an overwhelming number of illegal
abortions? Second, is it worth 18 more
abortions to eliminate one illegal one?

 

What is an ‘acceptable’
child? It is one thing to
argue for the mother’s
control of her body. It is
another thing to decide
whether another living
thing is ‘fit’ to live.

LI

Finally, I do not subscribe to the sim-
ple—minded reasoning” that Prof. Simpson
says must accompany the pro-life stance. She
accuses pro-lifers of holding the position that
if abortion is murder then there should be no
exceptions. I wholeheartedly disagree with
this proposition. There are exceptions to
murder. Self defense is one of them. I do
not find it so hard to accept that there could
be other exceptions to the rule of murder,
especially since the question of whose rights
are really at stake is such a unique and
sensitive question. But a prohibition with
exceptions is a far cry from carte blanche
abortion. I think the former would do a
much better job of balancing the rights at
stake.

It is interesting to note that despite her
own accusations about “simple-minded
reasoning," Prof. Simpson’s own logic leads
her into an untenable position. She argues
that mothers should be allowed to abort

because of birth defects. This is certainly not
one of the exceptions I would allow. After
all, where do you draw the line on birth
defects? What is an “acceptable" child? Do
we abort if the kid is going to have 6
ﬁngers? We certainly do not shoot retarded
people, so why should we abort babies just
because they have birth defects? Prof.
Simpson would argue here that we wouldn’t
actually be aborting defective “babies.”
They would just be defective “tissue.” But
the only reason we would abort such tissue
is that it will eventually become a “defec-
tive” baby (and adult).

It is one thing to argue for the mother's
control over her body. It is quite another
thing to decide whether or not another living
thing is “ﬁt" to live. Our society has not
yet regressed to the point where we are
willing to do away with “imperfect” people.
I don’t find that the argument for choice
justifies the argument for eugenics.

In conclusion, Prof. Simpson argues that
the pro-life position indicates a total disre-
gard for the life of the woman. Not only do
I deny that accusation, I level a similar one
at Prof. Simpson. Her argument seems to be
that the unborn child should not even be
considered. She wants us to forget about the
child and think only about the mother's
choice. If we did that, we would all opt for
abortion on demand. However, none of us is
foolish enough to pretend that there is no
life or potential for life in the womb. The

TALKBACK  

Mr. Armstrong, Lexington, Va. -

cause it’s a good Christrnans

Kimberly Booth, ‘9l, Atlanta,
. - “Miracle on 34th Street, be- Ga.
Christmas, because I like Max
story,” and LindyLou Who.”

Jean-Paul Boulee, ‘93, Atlanta,
“The Grinch Who Stole Ga. — “Frosty the Snowman,
because he's a true gentleman.”

Photos by Amanda Hughen

: What is your favorite Christmas special and why?

 

Jeff Kelsey, ‘93L,

Tenn. — “I am a traditional kind
of guy, and I always rent the
Elvis Christmas Special.”

Although no one really
knows when the fetus be-

comes a living human be- ,

ing, it does not follow
that we should therefore
abort without concern for
the life of the fetus.

child must be considered. The risk that
abortion murders a human being is simply
too great.

If a woman has a living thing inside her
body, its rights must be considered, too. She
carmot pretend that she has the right to do
whatever she wants. Prof. Simpsm complains
that we are ignoring the rights of the wom-
an. But since 1973, the woman has been
able to do essentially what she wants. In
fact, it is the unborn child whose rights have
been completely neglected for the last 16
years. And since the pro-life position consid-.
ers both the rights of the child and those of
the mother, I find it to be the much more
reasonable position.

EDITOR'S NOTE: We thank the many
contributors who have so thoroughly covered
the abortion debate. However, we believe this
topic has now been exhausted. Barring
further developments, we think any further
discussion of this issue would be redundant.

 

Memphis,

mas, definitely.
Snoopy makes the toast.”

Eve Mullen, ‘90, Cedartown,
Ga. — “Charlie Brown's Christ-
I like it when

Alex Hitz, ‘91, Atlanta, Ga.-
“The Grinch, because that's who
The Phi thinks I am."

 

 

  

NEWS __

‘ the year by the EC.

- University.

SAB praised;
Break stays

The Politics Department will
sponsor the showing of King Rat
(1965, director - Bryan Forbes)
tonight at 7 p.m. in room 203 of
Reid Hall. A POW camp - a de
facto egalitarian society of
prisoners - confronts the morally
controversial bargaining costs of
democracy. George Segal’s first
major film role. Based on the
real-life experience of novelist
James Clavell as a Japanese POW
in Singapore. This is the last
film in the Fall Term Politics
Filmfest. For more details call
Prof. McCaughrin, ext. 8624.

‘Thanks, Vets’

Coors is sponsoring the 1990
Coors Verterans’ Memorial Schol-
arship Fund. The company says
it is its way of saying, “Thanks,
Vets.”

To be eligible, applicants must
be 22 years old or younger as of
March 15, 1990, and already be
enrolled in a four-year institution
with a cumulative grade point
average of at least a 3.0. Also,
they must be the son or daughter
of one of the following: an hon-
orably discharged American vet-
eran; active duty military; guard
or reserve military; or Ainericzin
service person killed in action,
missing in action or who has died
in the line of duty.

Scholarship applications are
avaliable in the financial aid
office, or by calling 1-800-
49COORS. Deadline for corti-
pleted applications is lVlarch 15.

By Melinda Conkllng
Staff Reporter

After hearing a 19-page budget
report from the Student Activities
Board on Monday night, Executive
Committee President Willard Dumas
said that he was “very pleased" with
the SAB’s performance of late.

The SAB reported that the new
no-charging policy is working very
well. Treasurer Katie Duwell said no-
charging requires more pre-
planning, so activities are running
more smoothly.

Not including the upcoming
Christmas concert, the SAB has al-
ready spent about $11,400 this year.
The SAB was allocated $47,165 for

John Fialcowitz reported that
University Registrar Scott Dittman,
could hold transcripts and diplomas
of students who charge things to the

The student referendum held
before Thanksgiving break showed
that a great majority of students do
not want to lose the week vacation
at Thanksgiving. Students voted 527
to 27 in favor of keeping Thanks-
giving break one-week long.

According to Dumas, some stu-
dents wrote-in that a day off half-
way through the term would be great-
ly appreciated.

The EC is accepting applications
from anyone interested in being Fan-
cy Dress Auditor. Any students inter-
ested should contact Willard Dumas
or Charles Conklin.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 30, 1989

GENERAL NOTES

Outing club

The environmental action
section of the Outing Club will
have its next meeting tonight at
5:30 in room 109 of the Student
Center. They will have a meal
together, so please sign up in
advance at Baker 109 if you plan
to attend.

The Outing Club will make its
last hike of the semester on Sun-
day, Dec. 3 from 12:30-6 p.m.
into St. Mary's Wilderness, one
of the most rugged and striking
areas in Virginia. You must wear
sturdy shoes or boots and warm
clothing; bring along rain protec-
tion, water, and something to eat.
Meet at Baker 106. Transportation
is provided. Sign up in advance at
Baker 106.

The equipment room of the
Outing Club will be open for
equipment check-out and return
until the beginning of exams.
Hours are Monday and Friday 2-
5 p.m. and Wednesday 1-3 p.m.

Poet contest

The American Poetry Associa-
tion contest’s deadline is Decem-
ber 31. Entry is free and anyone
may enter.

The grand prize is $1,000 and
the first prize is $500. There are
150 additional cash prizes.

Poets may enter the contest by
sending up to six poems, each no
more than 20 lines, name and
address on each page, to Amer-
ican Poetry Association, Dept.

CT—90, 250-A Potrero St., P.O.
Box 1803, Santa Cruz, CA 95061.
Entires should be mailed by De-
cember 31.

Each poem is considered for
publication in the American
Poetry Anthology, a leading col-
lcction of today’s poems.

Hillel Society

The newly established W&L
chapter of the Hillel Society,
formerly the Jewish Student
Union, will hold an organizational
meeting for new members on
Monday, Dec. 4 at 7:30 p.m. in
room 103 of the University
Library. Winter semester events
will be discussed.

Debts

The following students are
requested to attend the Student
Financial Relations Committee
meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in room
108 of the University Center:
Douglas Cummings, Richard
Grace, William Harbison, Robert
Wheelock, Marcus Miller, and
William Ottiger.

Time Awards

Time magazine is looking for
20 outstanding college juniors
“whose academic records and
achievements outside the class-
room are setting exemplary stan-
dards of excellence.”

There are eleven different
categories of achievement in

which students may compete:
community service, political ser-
vice/advocacy, joumalism/print,
journalism/broadcast, creative
writing, entrepreneurship, crea-
tivity in science/technology, per-
forming arts, visual arts, athletics,
and environmental action.

All twenty winners will re-
ceive $3,000, an invitation to the
awards dinner in New York, an
all-expense-paid trip to New
York, and a day with the editorial
staff of Time. Also, all 20 win-
ners will be showcased in the
magazine.

Copies of the official entry
form and contest guidelines can
be obtained from:

TIME College Achievement
Awards, c/o Media Management
Services

10 North Main Street

Yardley, Pa. 19067-9986

Defense Ed

In an effort to increase Amer-
iea’s strength in defense related

areas, the U.S. Department of

Defense plans to award approx-
imately 120 new three-year Na-
tional Defense Science and En-
gineering Graduate Fellowships in
APril 1990 for study and research
leading to doctoral degrees.
Fellowship recipients will
receive a stipend in addition to
full tuition and required fees.
The stipend is $15,000 in 1990-

91, $16,000 in 1991-92, and
$17,000 in 1992-93. Also, each
fellow’s graduate academic depart-
ment will receive $2,000 per year.

There is no military or other
service obligation.

This program is administered
by Batelle, the intemation technol-
ogy organization, through its
Research Triangle Park, N.C.,
offices.

To be eligible, the recipients
must receive bachelor’s degrees
before the 1990 fall term.

Application materials are avail-
able from Batelle at:

NDSEG Fellowship Program

200 Park Drive, Suite 211

P.O. Box 13444

Research Triangle Park, N.C.

27709

Attn: Dr. George Outterson

For more information call (919)
549-8505.

Concert

Students and staff are invited
to kickoff the Christmas season
with a Christmas concert and
caroling presented by the Rock-
bridge Chorus tomorrow at 8 p.m.
in Jackson Memorial Hall. The
program includes carols from
other countries, the Gloria by
Rutter (chorus and brass
ensemble), favorite carols involv-
ing the audience, and other
Christmas pieces. Student admis-
sion is only 2 dollars, staff admis-
sion is 4 dollars.

 

'{(FFlLlATED GUNSELING /L71-TERAPISTS

PRESSURE from deadlines, responsibilities and worries of
all kinds can build into almost unbearable stress. Feelings of anxi-
ety and depression and physical symptoms may result. Profes-
sional help can show you how to deal with pressure more effective-
ly. Sometimes you need more than a friend.

Sometimes you need

Susan M. Sisler, LPC
CALL 703-463-3305

more than a friend.

6 East Washington Street
Lexington, VA 24450

 

   

O

0
We Buy Used CD’s :
New Hours .
Noon until 9 p.m. .
Monday through Saturday Q
11 S. Randolph St., Lexington Q
OOOOQQQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

@@

Lexington Lighting

We have Study Lamps, Table Lamps, and Floor Lamps.
Come by!

26 South Main Street
Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.
Lexington, Va. 24-4-502523

. (703) 

_ _,Ar_way Kirby.

    

George’s
Hairstylist

I36 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett‘s
463-3975
We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell
Open Evenings
Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

  

     
 

Right
“C T0006

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

   

Robby Jones

703/463-2022

Standard 10% Discount 11 W, Nelson st,
-With Student 1.1). Lexington, Va_ 24450

offers the following items for
your Christmas giving.

Al11i1t—i|9i>111tia

0 Sweaters (E.S. Deans, 0 Duck Head pants

w°°lrl°h~ Izod) 0 Xmas underwear
. §,:;:d(‘:aSa;a\;T:é:E:)er’ 0 After Six formal wear
0 Chamois,and ﬂannel shirts ' w°°l’l°h rag Socks

0 Handcrafted ceramics
0 Nautica Outerwear

0 London Fog rain coats
0 Leather Bomber Jackets

This week ’s special
Corduroy Pants - 20% Off

Visa
Mastercard
Gift Certiﬁcates - Free gift wrapping Cl‘‘““
102 w. Washington Since 1963 463-5383

 
   
  

WILLSON-y

WALKEMVI
Housema‘

Restaurantl ‘A

   

L ‘t ;
llltll 3'17 lll . lll l_lll_]ll_l_{ll".__.

J. , ,._.'.._.... —.—

..».-itt E--1 rli 

Beginning Tuesday, November 14th

AFTERNOON TEA
3:00 - 5:00 P.M.
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

30 N. Main St.

Lexington 463'3020

 

Hi-Speed Copying - Résumés ° FAX - Design Graphics
463-1712 - 125 W. Nelson, Lexington - FAX 463-6918

 

QB

  

   

looking tor
a new home?
Ask a friend.

©1985? Ct-i\ttir_\‘ 21 Rtclll l‘:SlZlll‘Ct)l‘])t)t':|ll4 :< ll'Ll$l(“ '1 ‘tlw

 

CENTURY 21‘ professionals
nationwide help more peo-
plc find the perfect home
than any other real estate
sales organization. When
you're ready to bu y a home,
calla member of the team
that leads.

 

FOG0 REL ESTATE
Lexington
463-1301

 

Put your trust
in Number One.

.\'.-\l- C itl “‘ tratlt-ii\.'ti‘k:~ut Ct-iittir\‘ 21 >: I listatc ‘irporatmn
Q

Equal SllIp,'(ll)|)()rl\lt\ll)'

EACH OFFICE IS INDEPENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED.

 

RT. 5, BOX 379
|.EXlNGTON. VA 24450

703-463-9478

    
 

LEE Kl

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

i--—---------—-t
GiltBasl<el;sUnlimiteb

New Christmas inventory

for great gifts.
We ship anywhere

19 South Randolph St.
Lexington, VA 24450

A , (703)463-6696 :

EBEEEEBBBBBEBEEBEEJEEEBQ
Ecumenical Advent
Lessons & Carols Service

for W&L and VMI students
Sunday, Dec. 10
5:00 p.m.

Lexington Presbyterian Church
A light supper will ber served following the .s'eH'i(‘e.

BEERBBEEEEEEEEEEBBEEEEEH

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

   

1-800756-LEHVI

 

       
   
   
     

     

C.E. Hardy Jeweler

35 S. Main Street
463-4121

..-"  J

   

mi/3"‘U3>5>"U

Celebrate Christmas in

OPEN HOUSE

Thursday, December 7, 1989
Holiday Treats prepared by Dillard Saunders of

Spiritual readings of crystals and stones offered by
Ms. Betty Granat from 6:00p.m. to 9:0Op.m.

Expanded Christmas Hours for you!
Monday - Saturday 10:00am ‘till 9:00 pm
Sunday 12:00 ‘till 6:00pm

NEW ARRIVALS!!

"Tangle" sculptures, Paper Mache and Soapstone boxes, Laser X-mas tree

ornaments, Scented Candles, X—mas incense, International jewelry, Unique

X—mas cards, Hand—blown glass oil lamps, Christmas music and countless
more stocking stulfersll

16North Main St./Lexington, VA
703-464-1800

Paradise!

lrish Gap lnns.

Silver and Onyx
A Far East Fantasy

CARAVANS

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-3500
Open daily from 10 AM - 8 PM

 
— 

-1'

 

é

.Night Owl:
fcity’s new

:music shop‘

,, By Kimberly Booth
Staff Reporter

I

1 Lexington has a new source for
good music at a good price... that is
if your don’t want to charge it home.

4 Wayne Raynal, a former Washing-
ton and Lee student, opened Night

' Owl Music after The Flip Side

, closed, and has had increasing suc-
cess since the return of college stu-

* dents to Lexington this fall.

Night Owl Music sells new and
used albums, compact discs, and

t tapes.

Night Owl prices are cheaper than
those at shopping malls. The new

, items are at least one dollar off the
list price, and the used items are sold

* with a quality money back guarantee

, not to skip or drag.

' The used albums are quality
‘ graded, and one can ask to listen to
4 the used item in the store before
purchasing it. Due to the discount
‘prices, however, there are no sales.
‘ His stock mostly consists of rock,
jazz, blues, and bluegrass. Blank
1 tapes, cleaners, and compact disc
cases are among some of the other
things he sells.

‘I Raynal also can order merchan-
‘ disc, with no obligation or deposit to
a customer, if it is not in immediate
4. stock.
, Night Owl Music, located on Ran-
'dolph Street across from Sycamore
, Farm Market, opened August 4th.
Night Owl Music is open from
inoon until 10 p.m.

it

iPHA

“from page 1

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 30, 1989

->.-§g°@g;«g¢ “ "é\SS«\..-e.,gwe.w2~oe - '

CRC

from page 1

Wilson said DG has asked that
their consultant for the new W&L
chapter be permitted to observe for-

~mal rush following the open houses
on Sunday, January 24.

“They want to copy our rush as

closely as possible to make it better

afor the rushees," Wilson said. This
proposal, however, has not yet been
.approved by the PHA.

H ,With the addition of  to W&L, .
there will... also be. some ..changes .—

within the structure of the Panhel—
slenic Council.

Tuesday, the PHA approved a
proposal giving DG an immediate
vvoice in PHA meetings.

’ DG will not hold office, however,
‘until they have been formally in-

tstalled in May of 1990, when they
will also receive a vote.

DG’s rush will follow the same
‘format as that of the other three.

Wendy Wilson, PHA’s Extension
'Committee Chairman, gave DG’s
‘national representatives a list of pro-

posals concerning the January rush.
4 If approved by the PHA, DG

would be permitted to bring 25 na-

tional representatives and alumnae to
‘participate in rush.

Unlike last year, the sorotity
‘would also be permitted to bring up
‘to 15 actives from other chapters to

provide entertainment and help in
‘the pledge ceremony.

$

all relevant circumstances. Expres-.

sions or actions intended to further
intellectual inquiry or state an intel-
lectual position will not be considered
harassment."

The CRC is also considering
changes in its procedures, including
one that would give those convicted
by the CRC the right to have sen-
tences of suspension or expulsion
reduced by the appeals committee.
which consists of the elected faculty
members of President's Advisory
Committee.

Under current guidelines, the ap-
peals committee may, if it disagrees
with the CRC, “retum the case to
the CRC for reconsideration” but has
no direct power to reduce the CRC’s
sentence. “Subsequent sanctions im-
posed by the CRC shall be final,”
the current rules say.

But the proposed guidelines would
allow the appeals committee itself to
“either reaffirm or decrease the sanc-
tion imposed by the CRC.”

According to John, changes in the
rules for appeals followed sugges-
tions from some of the defendants
involved in cases last year. “Some
were not completely happy with the
appeals process,” John said.

The proposed guidelines also set
time limits on appeals. Current rules
set no such limits, but the CRC is
considering requiring those it convicts

to notify the appeals committee's
chairman within 48 hours of their
hearings if they plan to appeal.

John said the revisions group
would like to present its final propos-
als to Wilson and Elrod by Christ-
mas. “Our task is just to present
recommendations to the president,"
he said.

Until-that time, John said, anyone

‘interested in making other suggestions
‘should contact him"or Hobbs to make

suggestions. After Christmas, howev-
er, John said suggestions would prob-
ably best be made directly to Wilson.

Suggestions from students not on
the CRC would “very definitely” be
welcomed, said John. “This is a pro-
cess in which we need to hear from
a lot of sources," he said.

The CRC’s members are all ap-
pointed by Wilson. According to the
faculty’s “Statement of Goals for the
Disciplinary System,” their selection
“shall be based upon their reputation
for fairness and sensitivity, the ability
to maintain strict confidentiality, and
an unbiased judicial temperament."

John said the CRC’s current facul-
ty members, in addition to Hobbs, are
University Librarian Barbara Brown,
Law Prof. Ann Massie and Religion
Prof. Harlan Beckley. Student mem-
bers are junior James Rambeau, sen-
ior Scott Brisendine and third-year
law student Kymberly Oltrogge.

  
 

     
  
  

 

Leggett’s out; city in

Pet store moves into old theater lobby

By Jason Kelley
Staff Reporter

Lexington’s downtown is gaining
a new courthouse and a new pet
store, but losing a department store.

Leggett’s, a department store lo-
cated on Main Street, will close Dec.
16, while across the street, the
Monarch Pet Center opened on Nov.
18 in the lobby of the old Lyric
Theatre building.

The old Leggett’s building has
been bought by the city and will be
used to house a joint city-county
courthouse to help alleviate the
crowded conditions at the present
courthouse on the comer of Main and
Washington streets.

According to Whitney Broughman,
the owner of Monarch Pet Center, his
success “all depends on how I'm

IFC

from page 1

received by W&L. If students are
interested in the animals I have, I’ll
survive.”

Brougham sells tarantulas, iguanas
and snakes, “as well as the usual
rabbits, birds and fish,” he said.

“I only need to pay the rent and
bills, since ,I’m a retired air traffic
controller and am receiving a pension
from the government,” he said.

Broughman said he purchased
many of his tables and other supplies
from Leggett’s.

According to Leggett’s manager,
Dennis McAllister, the store is clos-
ing because “there is just not enough
business in downtown to support us
any more.” He attributed the loss of
business to new shopping malls in
Staunton and Roanoke.

He said this reflects a new trend
away from downtown shopping areas
and towards malls.

Broughman said he is a part of an
effort by local businessmen to bring
business back downtown.

He said stores are staying open
later to attract evening shoppers. He
also said both Main and Jefferson
streets should be turned back into
_t_v_vo-way roads.

“We also need more parking,
when the new courthouse opens, even
the parking below the Nelson Street
Bridge will be full,” he said.

According to McAllister, the twen-
ty or so employees of Leggett’s were
offered jobs at other Leggett’s stores
in the surrounding area, but they all
decided to seek employment in the
Lexington area.

Leggett’s will be marking down
all of their prices between now and
the closing date, in an effort to sell

out all remaining merchandise, said
McAllister.

contribute either two cans of food per
member or one dollar per member to
the charity.

“However, we'd prefer it if you
gave canned food instead of just
writing a check,” Nash said._ “All
these donations go right back into the
community. These people are count-
ing on us.”

Associate Dean of Students Leroy
C. “Buddy” Atkins said the drive is
well worth the effort.

“It's probably one of the most
beneﬁcial charities around here, be-
cause it's run entirely locally," At-
kins said.

In other business, Doug Chase of
the Rockbridge Area Recreational
Organization (RARO) asked the fra-
ternities to help renovate the group's
new building, the former National
Guard armory next to Lylburg Down-
ing Middle School.

“We should take Buddy Atkins

through this place if he thinks your
fraternity houses are in bad shape,”
said Chase.

Chase asked the fraternities to
volunteer time to paint the interior of
the building before its scheduled
opening in the middle of December.

“I think many fraternities have
been unfairly given a bad rap in this
town,” Chase said. “A project like
this, I think, will help to tear down
those problems with the community."

City reviews Master Plan

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

While students were spending
Thanksgiving break last week, univer-
sity officials made their first presenta-
tion of the Master Plan to an audi-
ence of city residents.

According to Frank Parsons, coor-
dinator of capital planning, the Mas-
ter Plan, a derivation of the

‘.Long-Range Plan, details anticipated

university plans for construction and
renovation for review by the Lexing-
ton Planning Comrnission and City
Council.

A part of the Master Plan that has
raised much public inquiry is Frater-
nity Renaissance, a project in which
the university will acquire the deeds
of participating fraternities’ properties
and lease them to the former owners
in exchange for renovations.

The program must overcome a
number of legal obstacles before it
can be implemented.

Parsons explained that most prop-

erty in which the university may have
an interest in developing is shielded
from zoning laws by an institutional
overlay, an exception to zoning re-
strictions for specific institutional pur-
poses.

However, when the original insti-
tutional overlay district was desig-K
nated, fraternities were not included

because the university did not antici-
pate developing their properties.

Zoning laws permitted fraternity
houses to exist inside the commercial
and historic districts, and the three
houses without that qualification —
Delta Tau Delta, Sigma Phi Epsilon,
and Phi Gamma Delta — were
granted conditional use permits, a
grandfather status which “amended
[zoning] ordinances to recognize
certain existing conditions,” accord-
ing to Parsons.

Areas which are not covered by
the institutional overlay must have
site plans approved by the Planning
Commission and City Council at
public hearings.

Parsons said that could mean as

many as 32 public hearings if each
house is renovated. Since this would
slow the progress of the renovation
programs, the university will ask the
city to subjoin fraternity properties as
institutional overlay districts.

Parsons explained that projects
under this designation that are more
than 200 feet from city property
require approval only at the Master
Plan stage.

Projects within that distance also
require Planning Commission and
City Council approval of site plans,
but not at public hearings.

The university will face another
dilemma in parking considerations.
Parsons said that zoning ordinances

passed last spring demand that for
each bed in a fraternity house there
must be at least one off-street parking
space.

Among many measures under
consideration to accommodate this
need, the university will propose to
the city the permanent closing of
Henry Street between Main and Jef-
ferson streets.

Though Parsons said the university
could offer to buy the stretch of road,
it’~s mutually preferable that the city
retain ownership but cease upkeep.
The university would be free to de-
velop the area.

Parsons said that though there may
be some opposition to the Henry
Street measure, as the road is a con-
venient turn around for travellers on
Main and Jefferson, the intersections
of Henry at those two through streets
are dangerous, and it’s safer for driv-
ers to cross over at other blocks.

Other notable proposals in the
Master Plan are an expansion to the
Law School: a new student center, a
central science library, an addition to
DuPont Hall, renovations to the Bak-
er, Davis and Gilliam freashman
dormitories; and new facilities at
Wilson Field.

Parsons said the university will
ask the city Planning Commission to
schedule a public hearing for the
Master Plan as soon as possible in
January.

 
  
  
   
 
  
   

      
  
  
 

     

4

A

~ . r I-‘ X‘ a

V   \ j p
g '. “  ‘I
‘  For Him j

‘ All Hunting Clothing, JGWGW» SCafVeS» TONY

' Guns, Archery, Western Lama 3003» Westem

' . Boots, Blackpowder Items, Bells» Christmas 990073‘

it 10.50% cm tions, China and Lots More

10-50% off. i
Q
Tremendous Selection of Unusual Gifts, Jewelry, Clothing

, 1 and Even Toys At Great Prices! '

’ FREE PARKING - FREE GIFTWRAP

f , Sale Ends_Dec. 24th!

  
  

18 East Nelson street, Lexington, 463-1800
Mon.-Thurs. 10-5, Frl. 10-5:30,
Sat. 10-4

. Open Sundays, Dec. 10-24, 1-4  _/.

  
  

     
 
   
  

   

 

 

 

By Debi Moen
Publicity Release

Let's stop the comparisons made
to the Grateful Dead, here and now.
Sure, The New Potato Caboose has
its dedicated followers, the self-pro-
claimed “Potatoheads” who trek far
and wide in their tie-dyed T-shirts to
groove with the music. And yes,
they change their repertoire night
after night to go with the ﬂow of the
crowd. They, too, have two percus-
sionisis. And yes, the band’s name-
sake comes from an obscure Dead
song, which once made up their main
repertoire. But the comparisons stop
there.

Times have changed and during
the past four years of The New Po-
tato Caboose’s existence, their music
has changed, their crowds have
changed, their goals have changed.

Now, all ages from the high
schoolers to the pressed khaki dressed
have jumped on the musical train of
The New Potato Caboose. It’s a
journey back to the attitudes of the
‘60s — when strong, meaningful,
relevant lyrics were de rigeur — but
it's mixed with the technical produc-
tion qualities of the ‘80s.

The New Potato Caboose is a
band for everyone. Formed in Wash-
ington, D.C. in 1984, the band con-
sists of eight musicians who started
out as a cover band. Their repertoire
touched on a psychedelic-rock-reggae-
folk-jazz, which meant you were as
likely to hear Jimi Hendrix's “Little
Wing” and Little Feat’s “Dixie
Chicken” as you were to hear
George Gershwin's “Summertime,”
Then, too, their main repertoire meant
Grateful Dead tunes. But gradually,
the band made detours off the Dead
track by interspersing original num-

The New Potato Caboo

Vii .

bers in their sets.

Over the years, especially in the
mid-Atlantic region, the Caboose
picked up more fans, no longer be-
cause of their likeness to the Dead
but more for their own sound. A
special EP of original songs for pub-
licity purposes made the rounds and
received airplay on East Coast radio
stations, and their audience mailing
list lengthened.

The Caboose kept rolling, getting
stronger, and found themselves on the
same bill with a number of well-
known acts such as The Band, John-
ny Winter, The Smithereens, Country
Joe McDonald, Dave Mason, Stanley
Jordan, The Neville Brothers and
Soviet folk-rock musician Alexander
Gretsky. ‘

Now, after four years of clubs,
colleges and festivals, the band has
arrived. They’ve reached their first
destination: a record label.

Rykodisc ho ped aboard The
Caboose, sign the band several
months ago and put them into the
recording studio to cut their first LP.
The album, titled Promising Traveler
will feature half-studio work, half live
performances recorded at The Bayou
in Washington, D.C.

The group started out doing cover
tunes because that’s what club
audiences wanted to hear, and that’s
what the band wanted to play. But
while some bands get stuck in the
Top 40 rut, spending their lives on _
the Holiday Inn house band circuit,
the Caboose wasn't about to let that
happen. Originals were the way to
go.

“I think it was helpful that we
didn’t decide to become an original
act overnight,” said Mark Mondok,
the band’s manager and lyricist.
“That’s increased our diversity, not
having to start out and write a whole

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

we tutti
new R0”

  

 

************=l=***=l=*******=l€*****=l<************3l=;(1

  
  

 

 

. $275-09?.’ “

YOUR uiiciimrs
TO PAY ron coiiscz. BUT om
ii‘ YOU'RE coon niouuii.

Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition
and provide an allowance (or fees and
textbooks. Find out it you quality.

IF-&
ARMY ROTC

‘I'll! SM |R'l'lS'l' COLLEGE
COURSE "Ill CAI TAXI.

Contact: Capt. Ramos 463-8485

=l==l¢=l¢=I=>l<_=l<=l<=l<_=l=5i?i3?l==l<=l<>l<=I<=i==i<=l<=l<=l<=l=>I<=l==I==l==l<=l=*=i==l5;

o.ppogoQQo"

23 N. Main St.
Lexington

 

Christmas Shop
At Pappagallo
And We Will Wrap
And Mail FREE.

Don’t Be A
Because Everyone
Coming To Your House
For Christmas

  
    

“\

9(-
9(-
96
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
96
9(-
9(-
9(-
96
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
96
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
9(-
il-

Scrooge

\

 


El Beverage fountain El Punch Bowls-
O 2 I. I ":
C] Glassware 0 3 E.-ail. §sia5§r ,,_
' A" styles ~"' -M Cl Floral Accessories 
|:] Tables  : Erassspr lgicker Baskets . ;
. -H ern an s ".
D Chairs And more, just call and asklﬁ
[j C1 - a Party Disposables 
' I1)i“nte5- C”?-5' Sa“Ce'5 [3 H3550 CUPS El Plastic cutlery-B.
Cl SIIVEFWXITC and glass” [3 Table Covers . .
paper. - 
El Candelabras plates Napkms
GreenValley Rent-alls
us. Hwy. 11 N.
Lexington, VA 24450
‘ Call 463-4680 or 463-2173

 

The Ring-tum Phi,

9 p.m. for the Christmas concert.

bunch of tunes. The originals have
become more a part of the main
show, and the covers are nestled in
here and there.”

They're not giving up covers
completely, because the crowd still
likes to hear favorites. But you
won't” hear the covers done by rote;
the Caboose plays them with a dif-
ferent ﬂair, maybe by changing the
beat or‘ adding instruments to give the

A song a fresh new sound, such as their

reggae—flavored treatment of Van
Morrison’s “Brown—Eyed Girl,” for

November 30, 1989

se roll into Bi

  j T’

 
   

Not Dead, but live

The New Potato Caboose, pictured above, will play
at the Student Activites Pavilion tomorrow night at
Tickets are on

instance.

Their high—energy danceable music
has been packing in clubs and gamer-
ing favorable press reviews every-
where they go, establishing themsel-
ves in college towns and major mar-
kets such as New York, Atlanta,
Athens, Richmond, Roanoke, Norfolk,
Charlotte, Winston/Salem, Columbia,
Nashville and more.

Extensive touring to build up an
audience was a “more stable way”
to lead to their first album release,
says Mondok, “A lot of times it

8:30 a.m. — Holy Eucharist

5:00 p.m. - Holy Eucharist

E R.E. Lee Episcopal Church

Sunday, Dec. 3

10:30 a.m. - Advent Service of Lessons and Carols

6:00 p.m. - Undergraduate Student Bible Study Program
TOPIC: Peace and Trust

i”’—""-‘£”—’iPHlNll

1st Floor Reid Hall

Come to your Printing Center for:
- FLYERS & POSTERS

- Copying & printing

- Programs

- Newsletters

add scanned images to add to you

The Printing Center has added a Macintosh llx, Scanner, and Laser-
Writer ii to its service. The Macintosh will read MS-DOS disks. We can

up a pamphlet about this equipment’s capabilities.

It CEIIIEB

- Custom RESUMES & letters
- Transparencies

- Brochures & Booklets

- Scanning

r posters or tlyers. Stop by and pick

Aerobics -ll/Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

g Lex

 

sale for $4 tomorrow in the Co-op, and for $5
tomorrow night at the door. Doors will open at 8:30
p.m., and Live Drive will be available.

goes the other way around, where
you put out vinyl and then attempt to
tour. I feel we've got a strong
foothold in it because we've come
out as a touring band and we‘re
ready to go. That's a big plus on
our side.”

Colleges will be a strong market
for the band, says Robinson, especial-
ly when their debut LP comes out.
Then, they’ll return to their estab-
lished markets and conquer new
ones.

l’.‘rri‘i*7’~‘r'l’h"£r‘:’~‘i'7’~‘t'*i‘i'*»’hi‘i'7f

St. Patrick’s Church
Campus Ministry
Schedule:

Wed.,'Dec. 6
Sacrament of Reconcilia-
tion/Penance 7:30 p.m.

Fri., Dec. 8
Immaculate Conception —Masses
at 12:15 and 5:15 p.m.

Sat., Dec. 9
Almost Christmas, Almost Midnight
Mass at 11 p.m.

Please join us for prayer and fellowship!

   

3’~‘i*7’§t:A"»"<*i‘r7ir*l"w"i'-i’.‘i*

    

College Shopping Square

  

AA

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA- -4
Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

In Celebration of Children ’s Books...

which area ’t just for children after all!

The W&L Bookstore

Will offer a 20% discount on

all children’s books

from Dec. 4 to Dec. 9

8-4 M-F; 10-2 Sat.

And... Annual Moonlight Madness Sale is Dec. 4th from 7—10p.m.
 20% Off on EVERYTHING (almost)

Super-X Drugs

At Super-X Your Prescription’
Needs Are Our Most important Business.

h

SMITH f

from page 1

wouldn’t do it. This was his whole
life.” i
Egner said the paper had refused.
to assign the story, and that Smith
intended to submit the story to a0
magazine. _ ,,
Smith's funeral was held in
Tallahassee Saturday. Florida Gover~n
nor Bob Martinez was in attendance.
“It is with deep dismay and sor'-I
row that Washington and Lee learns?
of the death of Todd Smith,” said’
Associate Dean of the College
Laurent Boetsch. “His concern fort
others, his sense of fairness, and his
good humor are characteristics that I
readily associate with him.” «I
Dudka said Smith was a “maver-
ick, someone who was deﬁnitely his’
own man.” A ;
While attending W&L, Smith was
the head dorm counselor and was‘
elected to Omicron Delta Kappa. He .
ran on the varsity cross—country team,
and was a member of the lntcrvarsity ‘
Christian Fellowship. 9
He was also a member of the
Sigma Chi fraternity. I
“Todd was so dedicated to The‘
Ring—tum Phi, that he actually failed
all his classes during Fall Term the;
year he was editor," said Dudka. ‘

“If there was anyone who was.
going to make an impact in joumal— y»
ism, it was Todd,” said Tallahassee
Democrat columnist David Lee Sim- '
mons, a high school friend ofj,
Smith’s. “He had that star quality.”

In addition to his duties of editor ‘‘
of The Ring—tum Phi, Smith drew zi j
weekly cartoon for the paper called
“Minks,” and also drew several ii
illustrations for the Calyx.

“He was such a talented artist, but ‘
he tried to avoid doing drawings,” ,

said Dudka. “He wanted to be
known as a serious journalist.” ’
. it
 

 

0

Coming in January...

?£9{,9O:7\[:2lL5 ;

C

 
 

   

     
   
 

 

463-7126

AAAAA4

 
         
    

  

Artists in Cahoots

(‘impci.iii»t- <}.i||cr_\ ill lnt.il \I‘Il\I\ A (‘mils l’i~np|t-

Handcrafted silver and
porcelain jewelry, pot-
tery, silk scarves,
sculpture, woodwork,
glass, paintings and
, photographs of local

" '. landscapes, Lexington

-{ landmarks and Virginia
‘ “ ﬂowers.

” ’ Comer or Washington & Main sis.
Lexington
Open 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Mon.-Sat.
Visa & Master Card accepted

7''
I I
ciudiotronics

VlRG|NlA'S STEREO SPECIALIST
DENON ALPINE
ADCOM BOSTON
B&O CWD
KEF SONANCE
SIGNET B&K
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

Hot Chili Pepper Lights

  P
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily from 10 AM - 8 PM/Sundayi - 5 PM

For Christmas, kitchens and marguerita parties.

==.*.

‘' ‘-»’rt'~‘.I-:»w~-~‘»-~~.-i-.2-uagqinlqt-vtﬂlrv n.-.-m-.~«-«--u».¢..-,--

 

 
 

JSPORTS

§

A

-‘K

A

the Sea Gulls to win the tournament. Jacobs leads
the team in scoring while Hatfield leads the team
in rebounding. W&L file photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

' Juniors Chris Jacobs (42) and Craig Hatfield battle
0 for inside position against Salisbury State in the

W&L Tip—Off Tournament. The Generals defeated
I

Annual Moonlight Madness Sale
At The W&L Bookstore

20% Off on ALMOST Everything
(but not CD5. . .)
Monday, Dec. 4th from
7 to 10 p.m.

 

Seniors NJ/PA

Take Charge
of your career
at MIDLANTIC

Before you know it, graduation day will be here. We think your first
. career decision is one ofthe mostimportantyouwillevermake.Thereisaworld
,. of opportunity ahead of you and MIDLANTIC would like to invite you to explore with

, us a part of that world —— careers in the financial services industry — during your
upcoming holiday break.

. Don't wait
for lightning
‘ to strike

  
 

0 Today's financial services industry is dynamic, challenging and growing faster than

‘ ever. increasing competition and improving technology point towards greater
expansion and could offer a very bright future for you.

, MIDLANTIC NATIONAL BANK has been a respected leaderin this industry for over
185 years. Ourcommitment to excellent financial services and a willingness to adapt
to change has helped establish our reputation as one of the country's top financial
institutions.

Ourcontinued growth has created many exciting job opportunities fortoday's college
graduates. We offer several outstanding Training Programs that prepare individuals
to face the demands of the industry. Once completed, we'll place you in a position
that helps you grow professionally and personally while achieving yourcareer goals.
1‘ These programs can lead to career pathsthat best meet your interest...Auditing,
.. Branch Management, Commercial Lending, MIS, Marketing, Trust, Comptrol-
4 lers and Human Resources, to name a few. if you're not sure which specific
M field in banking you want to pursue, our General Management Training

Program features an in-depth overview of our different divisions to help you
make your decision.

1 So take a few hours during the holiday season to meet with us. You will be better
~ prepared to know what the financial industry has to offer and how a career with
< MIDLANTIC can benefit you. Call Amy Smith at 201-321-2072 to arrange for a visit.

MIDLANTIC

“THE HUNGRY BANKERS”

Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN’

...i .. » - --
_, vaw5‘«~JI-‘IICM. - 

           
      
 

The Ring-tum Phl, November 30, 1989

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

The Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference schedule started off with a
bang Tuesday night in Harnpden-
Sydney, and the Player-of-the-Year
and his regular season champions
from a year ago sent a message to
the rest of the conference.

Junior center Chris Jacobs scored
the first and the last basket of the
game, and his Washington and Lee
Generals established themselves as a
force to be reckoned with in ODAC
play this season by defeating Hamp-
den-Sydney on the road 76-67.

After winning the W&L Tip-Off
Tournament as school let out for
Thanksgiving the Generals hit the
road for games against Emory and
Hampden-Sydney.

At Hampden-Sydney last Tuesday,
it was a battle of last year’s Old
Dominion Athletic Conference touma-
ment champs and the regular season
champs.

Hampden-Sydney forced W&L’s
hand before the game started. To
match up with the Tigers’ size, head
coach Verne Canfield decided to
insert junior guard Pat Gallavan into
the starting line-up in place of junior
Jim Casey. The Tigers start four
players 6'4” or better, and Gallavan
at 6’4", matches up better with H-
SC than does Casey at 5’10”.

But a change in the lineup was all
that the Tigers forced the Generals to
do. Jacobs scored the first six W&L
points to get the Generals out to an
early lead.

The Tigers went in front 7-6 on a
Pat Mulquin basket, but that would
be their last lead of the game. Junior
captain Mike Holton drove past Brad
Pomeroy for a basket that started the
Generals on a 15-2 run to establish a
comfortable lead in the first half at
21-9.

The Generals led at the half 37-
33 largely in part to a strong defen-
sive effort and three three-point
bombs from Holton. “I was really
pleased with the way we played team
defense," said Canfield. “I thought
Michael did a good job of establish-
ing the three—point shot when we
needed it."’

tMIl19!1in. who killed ,thi=,Ge.nera1s
last year with his three-point shoot-

ing, was liustered into a three-for-11
night from the field. Turner, a first
team All-ODAC performer as a fresh-
man last year, came into the game
averaging 26 points a game. Inside
defense by junior forward Craig Hat-
field held Turner to 15 points and
just two rebounds.

Jacobs dunks Gnerals past Sydney

In the second half, junior forward
Ed Hart made his presence felt, as he
was able to keep the Tigers at bay
with his baseline shooting. “We told
Edward to be aggressive and look for
his shot, and he did,” said Canfield.
“We just need Ed to keep playing at
the level he did against Hampden-
Sydney.”

Holton connected on a three-

pointer to start the second half, and »

after H-SC guard Mike Wilson hit a
three-point basket, the Generals went
on a 17-7 run to take a 14 point lead
at 61-47. Hart and Jacobs each con-
tributed six points during the run.

Hampden-Sydney would get no
closer than five at 63-58 with 3:25 to
play, but Hart scored six of the Gen-
erals final 13 points, and Jacobs
capped the scoring with a dunk as
the Generals stopped the Tigers 76-
67 to start the ODAC season.

Said Canfield, “I thought we sent
a message to the rest of the league
by beating Sydney, and that's what I
wanted to do. People will see that
win and realize that they will have to
fight to beat us."

Jacobs and Hart led the way for
the Generals with 20 points each.
Holton was also in double ﬁgures
with 16, and Hatfield added 11 points
and eight rebounds.

On the Tuesday of Thanksgiving
Break, the Generals traveled to Atlan-
ta to take on the Emory Eagles. In
two games last season, the teams
split, each winning on their own
home ﬂoor.

The Generals trailed at the half
37-31 and rallied to lead brieﬂy in
the second half, but Emory fought
back behind Tim Garrett, a two-time
All-American, to take a 72-67 win
from the Generals. Emory held W&L
to no three-point goals and just 38
percent shooting from the field.

Jacobs led W&L with 21 points.
Hatfield continued his strong early
season play with 15 points and 16
rebounds. Hart also finished in double
figures for the Generals with 14.

 
    
      
     

Why j oin a
F ratemtty
lthat won't
et ou ra
yoiir dateP?e

_ out-Turner. Rebounds-W&L 38 (Jacobs 9). H-SC
A 35 (Williams 18). Assist:-W&L 9 (Holton. Casey,

The Generals opened the season at
home by defeating Methodist and
Salisbury State in the W&L Tip-Off
Tournament, and showed a great deal
of‘ depth in winning the tournament.

In Sunday's ﬁnal against Salisbury
State, every General who played
scored as the Generals came back
from a 68-64 second half deficit to
win 97-87. Jacobs rebounded from
his worst performance in two years
with a career-high 35 to lead all
scorers and 12 rebounds. Also in
double figures for W&L were Hart
(16, 10 rebounds), Holton and Hat-
field (12 apiece).

The Generals won their opener
against Methodist by placing livc
players in double figures, led by
Casey's career-high 20 points, and
getting strong play from the bench
for a 102-88 season-opening win.

Every W&L player who played
contributed in his own way. And it
was a good thing, because Jacobs had
his worst game in two years. Draw-
ing double and triple teams all night
long, struggled through a four-of-17
shooting night.

But the rest of the team was there
to pick up the slack. Casey led the
way, but it was the play of Hatﬁeld
that carried the Generals to victory.
The junior power forward feasted off
all the attention that Jacobs attracted,
pouring in 17 points and snaring 14 —
rebounds.

Jacobs and Hatﬁeld represented A
W&L on the All-Toumamcnt team,
and Hatfield walked away with MVP
honors.

The Generals, 3-1, 1-0, will put
their l7-game home winning streak
on the line against conference favorite
Randolph-Macon. The Yellow Jackets .
are ranked No. 3 in the NCAA 1
Division III pre-season poll. '

WASHINGTON AND LEE (76)

Manson 0-0 0-0 0. Holton 5-7 2-2 16, Melton f
1-3 0-0 2, Gallavan 0-0 0-0 0, Casey 3-10 0-0 7, ;
Hatﬁeld 5-9 1-3 11, Hart 7-13 66 20, Jacobs 7- .

;g 6-6 20. Alrutz 0-0 0-1 0. Totals 28-58 15-18

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY (67)

Williams 7-17 57 20. Mulquin 3-11 4-4 10,
Turner 6-12 3-4 15. Camohan 2-8 1-2 5. Pomeroy
1-6 0-1 2. Barber 2-3 0-0 5, Clark 1-1 0-0 2,

Wilson 2-2 1-2 6, Blake 1-5 0-0 2. Totals 25-65
15-20 67.

Halftime-37-33, W&L. Three-point goals-W&L (5.

10) HD1101! 4. Casey 1; H-SC (2-9) Barber 1,
Wilson 1. Total fouls-W&L 20, H-SC 20. Fouled

Haaotfgeld 2). H-SC 13 (Williams, Wilam 3). A-

  

 

__ _ ., _ g..<,__<._#,_,T,,._,_.,‘_.,.‘2 ax‘. .;‘-s.».<..,¢ - 4 g A - — -

' v.  . - 1. - -. -. -.r ~ < i.- .< - -5 ~JI.--.° ‘-.'- 31'‘ “--.V‘ \'k" ‘b.’ ‘O. ~"\' ’J‘ V‘‘'" ‘G 
 . .  ..      - 4'- .* .=.-mi.-.r-.':=».~.-*‘~' .:~e~.*.n’22'-*-’»‘/‘-‘~ "9 ~'  A I ‘
7\T)t.1\L‘-‘<.‘T”.¢'$:\;‘=1»AY¢‘-"%‘-5.‘/£'*1.-«€”é%'1'€'-&'52’~t~?9':*3"€~=*"‘?‘s*.“=“5“"4’4"’”*‘ "V" ‘ ‘ 3

 

k

The Ring-tum Phi,

November 30, 1989

Wanted: a large and
loud W&L hoops crowd

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

This is a public service armouncement on behalf of the Washington and
Lee basketball team.

Tonight the Generals will play host to Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference preseason favorite Randolph-Macon. The Yellow Jackets are
ranked No. 3 in the nation and have just stepped down from Division II,
where they ﬁnished last season 22-5 and ranked in the top 20.

The Yellow Jackets are 3-0 on the season and are outscoring their op-
ponents by over 20 points a game. They are led by 69" Pat Holland,
who played his freshman year at the University of Maryland. Holland
averages 18.7 points and 6.0 rebounds a game while shooting 75 percent
from the ﬁeld.

Other leaders for R-MC include 6’4” guard David Kagey, averaging
16.7 points and 4.7 rebounds a contest and Jeff Skop, a 6’6” forward
is also averaging in double ﬁgures at 11.7 points a game.

Said Generals head coach Verne Canﬁeld, “They are probably the
most sound team we have played in a while. They will try to take things
away from us, and no other team has done that. They are very tough.
As a team, they are shooting 63 percent from the ﬁeld.”

The Generals will look to push the tempo against a Randolph-Macon
team that likes to pass the ball and take their time. The key will be
junior center Chris Jacobs’ ability to run the floor. “If Chris can run the
floor and we can get him the ball, he will be able to get Holland tired
and put a couple of fouls on him that he didn't count on having,” said
Canﬁeld.

Jacobs leads the Generals in scoring at 21 points a game. He also
averages 8.5 rebounds a contest. All ﬁve Generals who start average in
double ﬁgures, and all are juniors. Ed Hart (15.0, 6.8) is second on the
team, followed by Craig Hatfield (13.8, 11.8), captain Mike Holton (11.0,
4.0) and Jim Casey (10.0, 3.0 assists).

“Randolph-Macon will play man-to-man defense for most of the game,
but they sag a bit,” said Canﬁeld. “It will be up to Michael [Holton] to
establish the three-point shot and it will be important for Edward [Hart]
to look for his shot aggressively."

One thing that will make a difference tonight is fan support. The game
is being played in the Warner Center, and everyone knows where that is.
The Generals have not lost at home in over two years, and crowd support

' has had a lot to do with that.

The home court advantage is the one thing that is a constant in college
basketball, and tonight, in what should be a very well played game, a
good crowd could mean a few more points for the home team. “That’s
what the home crowd is all about,” says Canﬁeld. “The home crowd can
set the tone right away, not only for the game but for the ofﬁcials as
well. These players have worked awfully hard, and I’d like to see a big
crowd tonight for them, to show them that what they do is appreciated.
I know everyone has work to do, but if you can get over here for a hour
or an hour and a half, the players would really appreciate it.”

Tip-off is 7:30. Wouldn’t you all like to see Jacobs cap another win
with a dunk.

l_A_eademic honors

sociation District III regional
Academic All-America teams for
football and volleyball.

From W&L Sports Information

Dual meets bring bright W&

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

After soundly defeating their foes
to open the season, the Washington
and Lee men’s and women's swim-
ming teams hosted the unique W&L
Dual Meet Invitational and earned
three more victories as two swimmers
qualiﬁed for nationals.

During the weekend of Nov. 17-
19, the Generals competed in four
dual meets in three days, with the
men defeating Johns Hopkins twice
(106-77 and 112-87) and splitting a
pair of meets with Ithaca (108-78 and
100-104). The women lost to Trenton,
State 115-71, Ithaca 119-67 and
Johns Hopkins 115-83.

The Invitational, a team oriented
meet, had a different type of format
than a typical swimming meet.

“There was a sprint format and a
distance format,” said W&L head
coach Page Remillard. “It was a
coaching kind of meet and a good
meet for the athletes.”

Before the season began Rernillard
had said that the men’s team would
like to send eight swimmers to na-
tionals. During the Invitational two

of the tcam’s swimmers, senior Dave
Olson and sophomore Jay Smith,
posted ﬁve national qualifying times.

Olson, the defending NCAA Div-
ision III champion in the 200-yard
backstroke, qualiﬁed for nationals in
the 100 back, 200 back and the 200
individual medley. Smith, a 1989
honorable mention Division III All-
American in the 100 free and an
academic All-American, qualiﬁed in
both the 100 and 50-yard freestyle
events.

However, Olson and Smith were
not the only standouts for the Gen-
erals. '

“Both Doug Brown and Chip
Nordhoff had a super weekend for
the men," Remillard said.

The two sophomores swam to 11
ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes. Brown earned the
top spot in the 500-yard freestyle
four times and won the 100 ﬂy once.
Nordhoff collected four victories in
the 200 free and ﬁnished ﬁrst one
time apiece in the 100 back and the
100 free.

On the women’s side, although
the scores did not indicate wins,
Remillard was pleased with the per-
formances. “We had some super

 

David Olson
...qualifies for nationals
in three events

individual performances. Freshman
Claire Dudley in the 400 individual
medley set a school record. Junior
Sharon Coleman swam really well
and is well on her way to another
stand-out year for her. Sophomore

ouﬂook »

Jodi Herring is adjusting well to the
middle distance events. She was very
competitive, and although her times
weren’t exactly what she wanted, I

S

was really pleased with her swims.” '

“I thought the whole group did av
super jo .”

After a two-week break from com- ’
petition, the 4-1 Generals will host,
Division I rival William and Mary
(1-2) at Twombly Pool tomorrow at’
7 p.m. .

Said Remillard, “William & Mary
will win the meet because they will v
concentrate on diving, but we will.
win our share of races. They have
some people that will test David ¢
Olson, and that will be good for us.
We have to go into this meet trying '

to do a great job individually.”

The women will take on a pair of
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foes in Sweet Briar and Hollins.
“Sweet Briar has more bodies than
we do, but if we swim a good lineup
and everybody’s on, then we should
come away with a win. I just think
the competitiveness of the women

4

P

5

!

will make the difference and pull us
V

through," said Remillard.

T

 
By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

It’s tough to get noticed when
you play beside an All-American,
and when you play with an All-
American, the tendency is to let
down a bit and let the All-Amer-
ican do all the work.

Junior Craig Hatﬁeld didn’t
get much recognition last season
playing next to Honorable Men-
tion All-American Chris Jacobs as
the Washington and Lee basket-
ball team reached the Old Dom-
inion Athletic Conference tourna-
ment. Hatﬁeld could have been
satisﬁed in letting Jacobs do most
of the work and just sit back and
watch.

[_I£'HLETE-OF-THE-MONTH

   

Cralg Hatfield

The 6’4” junior from Fal-
lston, Md. has been a double-
ﬁgure scorer in every game this
year with 17, 12, 15, and 11 for
an average of 13.8. Where Hat-
ﬁeld has excelled has been on the
glass, where he leads the ODAC
with an average of 11.8. Against
Emory, Hatﬁeld snared 16 re-
bounds. For his efforts, he has
been named The Ring-tum Phi’s
Athlete-of-the-Month for Novem-

ber.
Said Generals head coach

Verne Canﬁeld, “Craig is the one
player on our team right now who
is overachieving. Craig epitomizes
every trait a coach wants in all
his athletes.”

Hatﬁeld is best known on the
team for his role as the enforcer.
He fouled out of eight games last

season, but has stayed away from
foul trouble this year, and his
numbers have shown how produc-
tive he can be.

Said Hatﬁeld, “I knew I need-
ed to get some foul discipline.
I’m going to commit fouls, and
that happens when you play a

physical game, but what I had to
cut down on was the cheap reach-
in fouls, and so far I’ve done that
pretty well.”

“Craig brings a lot of pride to
the team,” said Canﬁeld. “He is
the ﬁrst guy to react when our
noses are being rubbed in it, so
to speak. He’s the one that usual-
ly says something about it.”

Congratulations to Craig Hat-
field, The Ring-tum Phi’s Athlete-
of—the-Month for November.

Washington and Lee junior
Craig Irons, the Generals’ record-
breaking football receiver, and
junior Lisa Jay, the three-time
MVP of the W&L women's vol-
leyball team proved today that

' athletic talent and academic skills
can go hand in hand when they
- were selected to the GTE/College

placed on the national ballot for

Both Irons and Jay will be

selection to the GTE/COSIDA
College Division Academic All-
America teams for football and
volleyball.

The Academic All-America
football team will be announced
Dec. 14. The Academic All-Amer-
ica volleyball team will be an-

 

Sports Information Directors As-

nounced Dec. 20.

  
  

     
   
  
  
 

   
  

  

Classy Critters

Pets and their necessities
Birds, Fish, Snakes, Lizards,
Hermit Crabs & Small Furry Pets

Feeders: Rats $3.99
Mice $1.49
Fish 10 for $1.00
5’ Boa Constrictor $250.00

Holiday Boarding for your pets
Bring in this ad for one free goldfish per customer

107 N. Main 464-3641

 

 

  
  
   

Festive Holiday Arrangements
In A
Lexington Crock

   
    
   

Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson
Lexington. Va. 24450
—( 703) 463-9841

 

 
 
   
  
  
  
   

  
  
  
     
 

  
 
  
    

 
   

 
 
  

  
  
  
 

,, +2 15%
On Any Purchase

0 De'ce'mber"Spe”cial

With this ad or your W&L I.D.
Open 7 Days A Week
Mon.-Sat. 9-5:30 p.m
Sun. 12:15-4 p.m.

   
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
   
   
   
 

-++ 
YOUR CHRISTMAS IDEA CENTER

We have perfect gift‘ ideas for your holiday celebrations.
I 990 Calendars - over 70 designs
Mugs 0 T-Shirts °Stuﬁ"ed Animals

Crystals 0 Playing Cards 0 Brassware
and Hallmark ’s Full Line Of

Ornaments 0 Cards 0 Gift Wrap 0 Partyware

Off 4 ‘Al

of$l0 or More *

      

 

 

Summer is a lively time to

it may be the best time for
ordinary summer scene.

Switzerland, and the Nethe

Summer Abroad

The Best of Times

University. It’s the season when Europe comes alive
with its outdoor cafes, festivals, and celebrations. And

Choose from 20 different programs in England, France,
Germany, Italy, the Soviet Union, Scandinavia, Spain,

Syracuse University
Division of International Programs Abroad
Summer Programs Office - Dept. AP
119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13244
(315) 443-9420/9421

    
 

study abroad with Syracuse

you to get away from the

   

rlands.

 

 

 
   
   
    
 
 
     

D<U1vV4i

P

      

FIOGRESSIVE

   

    

zmg m zmzoé won

   
  
 

 m

Tanglewood Mall, Roanoke
Barracks Road North, Charlottesville

For Women:

   

  

H I N G

Valley View Mall, Roanoke

  
  
  
  

 
 
  

  
  

 
 

   
   
    
   
    
       
   
     
    
     
   
    
     
    
  
   
    
     
     
    
    
    
     
 
     

4
By Todd Peppers

' Staff Reporter

I
w

I suppose that the general public,
myself included, is somewhat respon-
oi sible for an unsatisfactory movie like
“Back to the Future Pan II."

We become quite fond of certain
, characters, and we demand to know
what happens to our old friends after
the final credits stop rolling. The
‘ rest of the blame falls on the Holly-

‘wood producers who recognize this
4 desire and quickly capitalize upon it.

The result: senior citizens ﬂying
_tlie starship Enterprise, Jason having
I more comebacks than Sugar Ray
v‘Leonard, “Jaws” appearing in 3-D,

Arthur falling off the wagon, and
, James Bond moving closer to his
~ secret agent retirement pension.

There is only one problem: with

, a very few exceptions, the sequels are

sloppily done and are a complete

4 disappointment. We are reunited with

those familiar faces, but the producers

seem to forget that a good plot is
1 also needed.

One begins to think that Holly-
wood’s only purpose is to parade
1 these characters across the screen and

cash in on the public’s blind nostal-
' gia.

,, ' As I said, there are some notc-

  iW&LlFE
§‘Back to the Future ll’: rent the original

“Lethal Weapon II” was a superb
sequel. And some of the earlier
Bond films managed to remain fresh.
I wish this were the case for “Back
to the Future Part II.”

One gets the feeling that Holly-
wood counts on our love of certain
characters blinding us to the fact that
the storyline stinks.

“Back to the Future Part H” was
an utter disappointment. I loved
“Back to the Future,” and it remains
one of my favorite movies. And,
sure, I was anxious to be reunited
with Doc Brown, Marty McF1y, and
the souped-up DeLorean. But I'd
rather rent the first movie than sit
through this sorry excuse for a se-
quel. And, to add insult to injury,
executive producer Steven Spielberg
has banked on the moviegoer’s love
of the original movie and has AL-
READY ﬁlmed “Back to the Future
Part III.”

The blame does not lie with the
actors. Michael J. Fox (“Teen Wo-
lf,” “The Secret of My Success")
reprises his role as Marty McFly. He
does a good job of not only playing
the young Marty, but also the aging
failure that Marty has become in
2015.

Christopher Lloyd (“Star Trek
II,” “The Dream Team”) also re-
ttuns as the wildly eccentric Doc

The Ring-tum Phl, November 30, 1989

since the early dgys__of “Taxi," and

I think he is one of Hollywood's
most under-rated comic actors. Shal-
low performers like Tony Danza get
all the attention, while Lloyd quietly
turns out one memorable character
after another.

If you don't agree with me, then
simply watch Lloyd’s face during the
movie. He can do more with a
twitch of an eyebrow than most ac-
tors accomplish in an entire scene.

Lea Thompson is again cast as
Marty McFly’s mother. Although her
part is smaller in the sequel, Thomp-
son does a nice job under the various
layers of latex that her role demands.

Crispin Glover, one of Holly-
wood’s alleged bad boys, unfortunate-
ly did not decide to return as the
universal wimp George McFly. The
role is reduced to almost nothing, and
the producers use either doubles in
over-the-shoulder shots, or old scenes
from the first movie, to fill the void
left by Glover. I was disappointed,
Glover was perfectly cast in the
original film.

Finally, Thomas F. Wilson returns
as the bully Biff. Wilson’s role was
considerably expanded from the first
movie as Biff now plays a central
role in the plot. Another movie critic
summed up Wilson's contribution to
the film more eloquently than I could

eye-popping loudmouth is like getting
sprayed in the face with a garden
hose for 90 minutes.” ‘

Wilson has only two kinds of
acting techniques in his dramatic
repertoire: loud, and really loud. I
am probably being too harsh since
the role is truly one-dimensional, but
Wilson’s spastic performance almost
makes one dizzy.

The sequel begins immediately
where the first movie ended: Doc
Brown returns to 1985 and takes
Marty and his girlfriend to the year
2015. Marty’s son is in danger of
being thrown into prison, and Doc
needs Marty’s assistance in stopping
the crime. Of course the plot grows
dramatically more complex as the
2015's version of Biff, by now a
bitter, spastic old man, steals the
De.Lorean and returns to the year
1955.

The old Biff takes a sport’s alma-
nac to the 1955 Biff. This bool-;
allows the young Biff to gamble
successfully on every sporting event
for the next 45 years. He becomes a
millionaire and, in the process, alters
the future. When Doc Brown and
Marty return from 2015 to 1985, they
discover that Hill Valley has become
a gothic version of Las Vegas. So
they must once again travel to 1955,

   
  
     
       
       
      
       
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
       
     
            
       
       
      
     
       
     
     
    
       
  
       
  
   
 
      
      
       
     
     
         
      
      
     
   
           
   
       
       
 
    
    
    
 

worthy expectations to this rule.

Brown. I have been a fan _of Lloyd

when he wrote that “watching this

the scene of the first rnovie’s actions,
and stop young Biff from using the

Rush’s Presto works a little magic

By Andrew Keller
Staff Reporter

It’s been approximately two years since Rush
has put out a studio album, and about five since

they've released anything capable of their old‘

fan’s acceptance. However with their sixteenth
and newest album, Presto, it seems their new label
and producer, Atlantic and Rupert Hine respec-
tively, have worked a little magic of their own.
The sounds on this latest work should pleasantly
surprise some of Rush’s older fans.

During the two years after “Hold Your Fire,”
“A Show of Hands,” their live album was re-
leased. It seems they used the extra time to
rethink their direction.

While this album does contain tidbits of “Hold
Your Fire,” it has equal proportions of some of
their older recordings: “Farewell To Kings,”
“Moving Pictures,” and “Power Windows.”

The first ti'ack “Show Don't Tell” is a good
example of their change in direction. Alex Life-
son, the band's guitarist, seems to have plugged
his old Marshalls back in for this one, which is

nity experience.

standards of human behavior.

dignity.

easily one of the best they've written in a while.
The tune, perhaps best described as some sort of
neo-techno-funk-rock, serves as a showplace for
the diverse songwriting Rush has proven them-
selves capable of.

The title track, is an equally refreshing song in
that it's the first time since “Farewell to Kings"
that acoustic guitar has assumed a real role. It's
presentation on this track is extremely reminiscent
of “Cinderella Man,” and shows Lifeson taking
a renewed interest in basic rhythm guitar.

The whole album is in fact very rhythmic
which is mainly attributed to the other two thirds
of Rush, Geddy Lee and Neil Peart. Peart, several
time winner of “best rock drummer,” shows his
ability to tastefully pick beats on “Scars.” He
artistically colors this song with abnormally long
bass drum and african style bongos to achieve his
desired effect. Throughout the album he also does
a nice job pounding out odd time signatures which
Rush makes sound so easy.

Geddy Lee completes the rhythm section with
his mix-it-up bass style. Whether he's pumping or
slapping, his bass, he's definitely one of the best
in the business. Check out his semi-bass solo on

Date Rape has nothing to do with the frater-
It is the most blatant form of sexual harass-
ment that demeans both men and women.

We, the men's general fraternities united in the
National lnterfratemity Conference, are dedi-
cated and determined to deal with date rape.

We stand united in our affirmation of basic

We instill the principles of diligence, honor,
integrity, virtue, duty and respect for human

Consider these facts:

- A reported rape happens every six minutes in

the United States.

“Show Don’t Tell” and his “Red Lenses”-esqe
playing on “Scars."

Lee who also plays keyboards and sings, seems
to have stepped back, although not to far, from his
keyboard and stepped up to the microphone. This
is by far his finest vocal effort to date. On
"Available Light” you’ll cringe as he, unstrained,
hits undrearned of notes.

Lee however does not write the words he
sings. The insightful and poetic lyrics which have
become a mainstay in Rush’s music are Neil
Peait’s creation. The inner sleeve of the disc is
more like a collection of poems as Peart, who
holds a graduate degree in English, touches on
many themes. '

Peart also deals with suicide in “The Pass,”
the most sensitive song on the record. In it he
offers hope to those who feel they’ve hit bottom.

Additional themes are our own unknowing
destruction of the world and the control advertis-
ing and other unreal representations of life have
on us. In short, the album gets pretty deep at
times. .

All in all it's a great album whether you're an
old or new Rush fan.

sport’s almanac. Confused?

The second half of the movie
takes place in 1955, and that is when
I began to feel cheated.

The movie producers spent endless
months recreating the movie sets used
in “Back to the Future.” They have
lovingly re-constructed the 1955 Hill
Valley that appeared in the first mov-
ie.

My complaint: not only do they
copy the original sets, but they also
seem to have copied the original
script. We are exposed to the same
situations and, at times, the EXACT
same dialogue that were featured in
the first movie. ()nc gets a strong
sense of deja-vu as all—too—familiar
scenes unfold on the screen. I didn't
pay to see a sequel that clumsily
mimics the original ﬁlm.

I am being a bit unfair, the movie
does have some original moments.
As in the first movie, the special
effects are superb — especially when
Doc and Marty travel to 2015. Your
Saab will never seem quite as sporty
after you see the cars of the 21st
century.

And the 2015 sccncs features all
the clever but subtle details that made
the first movie such a hit: a movie
billboard advertises “Jaws 9," skate-
boards no longer have wheels, and
Goldie Wilson's family is still promi-
nent in Hill Valley. But special ef-

fects and witty details cannot save a
movie.

If you are a big fan of Michael J.
Fox, or if-you are dying to see what
happened to the “Back to the Fu-
ture” gang, then do see this film.
Just don't be too disappointed. And
don't be surprised when the film ends
and there are no neat answcrs--rc-
member that the producers are ex-
pecting you to spend thosc dollars in
the summer of 1990.

Ironically, the two minutes of
highlights from “Back to the Ftiturc
Part III” looked more interesting then
the tired sequel that I sat through.
Doc Brown suffers a mishap and is
1885, while Marty is trapped in the
year 1955. Have you ever seen a
DeLorcan pulled by a team of eight
horses?

I cannot pretend to be too indig-
nant, most likely I will be one of the
first to buy a ticket for the third
movie. But this sequel was an utter
disappointment.

Peppers will give it a grade of
“C—/D+." If you want to see Marty
McFly and Doc Brown as you fondly
remember them, then go down to the
video store and rent the original. It
is much more entertaining.

“Back to the Future Part II’' is
rated PG and is currently showing at
the State Theater. Buyer beware...

    
 

  

  

because ALL Fraternities
oppose date rape!

This is what we’re doing about it:

- Fraternities are dedicated to developing
healthy lifelong relationships built on mutual
respect and high regard. The ideals of

brotherhood demand respect for human dignity

—— both male and female.

- Fraternity members do not condone date rape.

They condemn it.

Violation of our standards leads to swift and

0 Many high school students are sexually active Certain 5a“C‘l0“53 ranging fmm direC‘lVe5 ‘0
, when they enter college but have had little or
no guidance on what is acceptable sexual
behavior. Fraternities are providing a safe
and attractive environment for young people.

We help instill responsible attitudes that will

lives.

- More than half of the rapes occur between
people who have met before: so-called “date

rapes. "

- Women are most vulnerable for rape during
the ﬁrst year of college and one in five will be
the victim ofsexual assault by someone she

knows during her college years.

- In a 1985 study one in I2 college men admit-
ted they had forced — or tried to force — a

woman to have sex.

- The same study reported that one in eight

women on campus had been raped.

affect their adult behavior for the rest of their

We’re in the business of developing leaders
with integrity: brotherhood is an essential ingre-

dient.

probation to suspension to expulsion — even to
revocation of charter and dissolution of chapter.
We’re serious about Date Rape and we think
you ought to know it.

If you think you have to demonstrate your
virility or prove your manhood through sexual
harassment or forced sex, don’t waste your time
on fraternities. But if you’re interested in find-
ing out how the leaders of tomorrow can experi-
ence the joy of mature relationships with respect
for individual dignity then write to us at the
Fraternity Executives Association, 3901 W.
86th St, Suite 390, Indianapolis, IN 46268.

“Developing Integrity In Leadership"

  

  

   
 

Ameri_c_a’s '
Fratermties

   

3.‘ I989

 

  

EBACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi,

November 30, 1989

Try Lexington for Christmas

By Tracey Thornblade
Staff Reporter

With final exams fast approaching,
many students may take a “Bah,
hurnbug” attitude toward the Christ-
mas season. But every year the
W&L community, as well as the
town of Lexington, sponsors many
events to help put students in the
Christmas Spirit. This year is no
exception.

In the next few weeks there is
something going on for everyone,
and attending one or more of the
events is practically guaranteed to
calm the frazzled student.

This Friday the Student Activi-
ties Board is sponsoring The New
Potato Caboose at the student pavil-
ion. The versatile Washington,
D.C.-based band will play music
which ranges from American rock
to jazz, folk, funk, and reggae. The
doors will open at 8 p.m. and the
show will begin at 9.

Tickets are $4 in advance and
$5 at the door.

*On Tuesday, Dec. 5, at 8 p.m.,
the W&L music division will pres-
ent its annual winter concert in Lee
Chapel. The concert will feature
selections performed by the W&L
wind ensemble, the University Cho-
rus, and the University-Rockbridge
Symphony Orchestra.

*On Wednesday, Dec. 6, Evans
Dining Hall will serve its annual
Christmas buffet dinner. The menu
will feature steamed ocean shrimp,
steamship round of beef, Smithfield
Ham, and Southern fried chicken.
Seasonal salads, desserts, and yule-
tide eggnog will also be served.

Evans’ is sponsoring the buffet
before exams begin to encourage
more students to attend, and they
will decorate the dining hall with
Christmas lights, ice carving, and
other decorations.

Later that evening, at 7 p.m.,
there will be a tree-lighting party in
front of President Wilson’s house.
All students are invited to come and
sing carols as the tree is lit. Re-
freshments will be served.

If these activities are not enough
to get students in the holiday spirit,
there are many other activities going
on in and around Lexington as well.

This year the city of Lexington
is sponsoring a variety of events.
Their annual Christmas promotional
theme is “Merry Lexington,” and

ﬁfty downtown businesses are par-
ticipating by holding open houses in
their stores. Approximately two
businesses a day will serve refresh-
ments to their customers and pro-
vide them with holiday recipes to
aid them in their Christmas prepara-
tions.

On Saturday, Lexington will hold
its annual Christmas Parade through
the city at 10 a.m. There will be
prizes for floats and bands.

From 12-5 that afternoon, the
Downtown Development Association
will sponsor an historic holiday tour
of Lexington featuring stops at the
W&L alumni house and Reeves
Center, the George C. Marshall Mu-
seum at VMI, the Campbell House,
Sigma Nu National Fraternity Head-
quarters, and Momingside, the Sig-
ma Nu educational center.

*Next Thursday, the VMI Glee
Club Concert will perform in the
courtyard of the old barracks at 7:-
30.

*Friday, Dec. 1, the Rockbridge
Chorus will hold its annual carol
sing at VMI’s Jackson Hall.

*Saturday, Dec. 2, there will be
a road race between Lexington and
Buena Vista at 12, and a candlelight
tour of the Stonewall Jackson House
from 7-9 p.m.

*Sunday, Dec. 3, the “Gift of
The Magi” will be_ presented at
Lexington High School at 2:30 p.m.
The performance is part of the
Rockbridge Community Theatre Se-
ries.

This year as part of the Merry
Lexington promotion, gift certificate
will be sold at the four downtown
banks and can be used at any of the
forty-five participating stores in
town. The Lexington Cable Compa-
ny has also done its part to make
the city festive by putting up lights
by Dominion Bank, Lexington Pres-
byterian Church and The Rockbridge
Library.

The wreaths on the lampposts
were hung by the Lexington Public
Works Department, any many other
groups have also strung lights thro-
ugh town.

There will be two ecumenical
services held for students this year.
The first will be on Thursday, Dec.
7, at Robert E. Lee Memorial Epis-
copal Church. The program will
feature a lesson in carols and per-
formanees by the University
Women’s Chorus and Men’s Glee
Club.

DO IT

Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695

The second ‘service will be held
Dec. 9, at 11 p.m. at St. Patrick's
Catholic Church. The service is
their annual Almost Christmas Eve,
Almost Midnight Service. Refresh-
ments will be served after the ser-
vice.

For interested students, St.
Patrick’s is also holding a Sacra-
ment of Penance Dec. 6, at 7:30
and a Holy Day of Obligation ser-
vice on Dec. 8.

The holiday season at W&L and
in Lexington promises to be an ex-
citing one which will bring a little

of Tiny Tim‘s cheer to any Scrooge.

Beginning on Friday, Dec. 1,
The W&L Theatre department will
present an English Christmas Panto-
mime under the direction of Dr. Al
Gordon at the Henry Street Play-
house.

Perfomiances will be given on
the lirst, second and third of Dec.
and the sixth, seventh, and eighth of
Dec. at 8 p.m. A special matinee
performance will be given on Satur-
day, Dcc. 2, at 2. Admission is
free to students. For reservations
call the box office at 463-8637.

HIST

LEXINGT

OLIDAY TOUR

ORIC

ONIVIRGINIA

(1) The Alumni Home
at Washington and Lee University

his Federal style house
I was built in 1867 by
James G. Paxton, Su-
perintendent of the C. G: 0.
Railway. It was purchased
in 1986 by the Sigma Nu
Educational Foundation as

to a dorm to house students.

(3) Mornlngnlde

T he Central section of Sigma
Nu's International Head-
quarters was a stone and
stucco house

built by Liv-

ingston Smith

in 1910. The

"the George C. Marshall Research Library
contains mementos of the life and career

of General Marshall. The museum will be

will also be carol singing.

ashington and Lee University's Alumni House,
W built in 1887 as a faculty house, will be opened for
the first time this year. The house was extensively,

remodeled in 1966, and was redecorated in 1987. Many antique
prints, furniture,

(2) Kcever Center
Washington and IA: University

a leadership conference center, and has been partially restored to its original state. The Victorian
furniture and oil paintingsare a gift from a Sigma Nu alumnus. The carriage house was converted

All

ifty years old this year,'l'he

g Rockbridge Historic Society,
is celebrating Christmas in a
unique manner. The Christmas tree
on display in the Campbell House
will be decorated with miniature
paintings of all ninety-four churches
in the county. The works were
painted by Mr. William E. Bobbitt.

000

n the Post at the Virginia Military Institute, * "

decorated and refreshments will be servecf There

rugs, and china are used in the decoration.

tA6_

xhibiting porcelain and
E paintings, the Reeves

Center was built as a
faculty house in 1840. It was
restored in 1981, without chang-
ing the 1840 floorplan, to exhibit
porcelain of the 18th, 19th, and
20th centuries, as well as paint-
ings. Open for the first time.
No admission fee.

A A A

(4) The Campbell Home

house was purchased by
Sigma Nu in 1957, faced with
brick, and minimally altered in
its interior. Wings
were added by
architect Milton

 

mi

WEEKLY CALENDAR

.:ar ..g .9

Law Classes and.

GEOLOGY SEMINAR: "Sedimentary Provinces:
Plate Tectonic Classification and Hydrocarbon
Habita -- Africa, Middle East, and South
America," Frank J. Picha, geologist, Chevron.
Room 206, Howe Hall. Public invited.

MEN'S SWIMMING: Generals vs. William & Mary.
Twombly Pool.

FAIR CHRISTMAS CONCERT: "Gloria," by John
Rutter, Rockbridge Chorus and FAIR Chamber
Singers. Jackson Memorial Hall, V.M.l.

FILM SOCIETY: Dark Eyes (Italy, 1987). Classroom
"A," Lewis Hall.

PLAY: Aladdin, an English Christmas pantomime.
University Theatre. For reservations, call theatr.
office, 463-8637.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WRESTLING: Lebanon
Valley Tournament.

4 p.m.

7 p.m.

-41 3. -4 .1?» .;-9

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

 

Law School Reading Days begin. ‘
2 p.m. & 8 p.m. PLAY: Aladdin. University Theatre.

7:30 p.m. BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Lynchburg College.
Warner Center. ’
8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Dark Eyes (Italy, 1987). Classroom ,
"A," Lewis Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: SWIMMING (W): '
Sweet Briar; WRESTLING: Lebanon Valley. 1
v
2:30 p.m. ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: ‘
The Gifts of the Magi. Lexington High School.
8 p.m. PLAY: Aladdin. University Theatre. ‘

MONDAY, DEQEMBEE 4

7:30 p.m. Theatre Auditions for play, K-2. University Theatre. ‘
I
7:30 p.m. Theatre Auditions for play, K-2. University Theatre. 1
8 p.m. W&L CHRISTMAS CONCERT: University Chorus, ,
University-Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra,
and Wind Ensemble. Lee Chapel. Public '
invited. ,
4
Law School reading days end.
9 - 11:30 a.m. ARMY R.O.T.C. Two- and Three-Year Scholarship

& Workshop. Military Science Building

1 - 3 p.m. (two sessions).
4:15 p.m. PHYSICS-ENGINEERING LECTURE: "Computer
Simulation - Tool for the Modern Age," Richard '
C. Ward, Oak Ridge National Lab. Room 201, I
Parmly Hall. Coffee at 3:45. Public invited. '
7 p.m. SWIMMING (W): Generals vs. Holllns College.
Twombly Pool. I
7:30 p.m. BASKETBALL: Bridgewater College. Warner ,
Center.
8 p.m. PLAY: Aladdin. University Theatre. _ 
Iuuasnannrcauaesz ‘
Law School examinations begin. ’'
5 p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: "The Chemistry of la
Fireworks," John A. Conkllng, Washington L
College. Room 401, Howe Hall. Refreshments
at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited. r
7:30 p.m. W&L CHRISTMAS CANDLELIGHT SERVICE: ,
Traditional Service of Lessons and Carols, R.E. '
Lee Memorial Episcopal Church. Public invited - V
8 p.m. PLAY: Aladdin. University Theatre. ,.
I
8 p.m PLAY: Aladdin. University Theatre.

§Aﬂl.Bl2AI._l2E§£IllI.B.EB..Q ‘
Undergraduate examinations begin.
GRE Examination.

Lonely? Need a Date?
Meet that special
someone today! ‘

Call DATETIME
(405) 366-6335

............................................................... .-

 

A counseling group will begin in January for Washington and Lee
students who have grown up in a family where alcoholism/alcohol abuse
existed in one or both of their parents or step-parents. The group will be
co-lead by Dr. Jim Worth, University Counseling Psychologist, and
Wanda Clarkson, M.Ed., an alcohol counselor with special expertise in
ACOA issues.

A brief organizational meeting will be held at 5:30 p.m., Wednesday,
Dec. 6th in the Arlington Women’s Center. Please contact Mrs. Calkins
(ext. 8590) and give her your name and telephone number if you are in-
terested in participating. All inquires are fully confidential. Mrs.
Calkins will be glad to answer any questions.

 

ll

Tl

  
   

 
 

is
'\1 ._.':;rs
-r 
’ar,L 
#35.-

Come and Join Us
in Pantomime Funtime!

An English
Christmas Pantomime

December 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8. at 8 p.m.
December 2 at 2 p.m.
at the

Theatre

at Washington & Lee

For reservations call 463-8637

‘-

V

RUNNING:
LATE? .

We're here until 8! 5

A

Q

£

9

Christmas Cards
Ornaments
Stocking Stuffers
Secret Santa Surprises

    

PO  
& PLEASURES '

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington i
Open daily 10 AM - 8 PM '

l

 

