 

\
4

4'5

~I—

..A-»o--t-.-—~—~

Q

Q

S0-oAQA\A.(o.q

O & (kg in Q

FD th

VOLUME 8, NO. 19

\

A new era begins

W&L head lacrosse coach Jim Stagnitta gives last-rninute instructions
to his players before Wednesday‘s game against the University of

‘ '- 41.: ' :l,7‘,' ,f; l_E:.,
 . i.i".\:.1:'\’ .3'l't7N. p

eme l’9V9

  

 I  .~ .

 
 
 

I.i .'gl\,‘
MAR 5  '2

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 
   

Virginia. The Generals lost 14-5 in Stagnitta’s first head—coaching effort.
See the story on page 5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

a/ed — see special section

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlti 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

  Lex renews

MARCH 1, 1990

car tax effort

List of owners requested

By Genienne Mongno

 Associate Editor

Lexington City Manager Joseph
King has asked Washington and Lee
President John Wilson to provide the
city with a list of all vehicles kept by
students living in Lexington,
continuing the city’s efforts to collect
a personal property tax on some
student cars.

Although W&L is not required by
law to provide the information, “it
would save us a lot of effort and
work,” said Commissioner of Reve-
nue Courtney Baker. Baker said she
has not yet recieved a response.

According to W&L Vice President
John Elrod, “We have taken it under
consideration, and at this point we
have made no decision about what
we are going to do with that re-

King said the information was needed
to “assure compliance" with Virginia
Code Section 58.1. That statute says
the City Council can tax as personal’
property motor vehicles “normally
garaged or parked” within the city
limits. '

Out-of-state students can be ex-
empted from the tax “upon showing
of sufﬁcient evidence that such per-
son has paid a personal property tax
on the vehicle in the state in which
he is domiciled.”

Irt addition, the statute states that
if a personal property tax has been
paid in another jurisdiction within
Virginia, the taxpayer “may apply to
such county or city for a refund of
such payment.”

“Nobody will have to pay in two‘

places,” said Baker.
If she receives the information
from the schools, Baker said she

quest.”

COIIIIUCHI.

In a letter from the city, which
was also sent to Maj. Gen. John W.
Knapp of Virginia Military Institute,

Wilson was out of town Wednes-
day and could not be reached for

would begin the assessment process
immediately in order to get as many
bills as possible out by spring.
Normally, Baker said, her ofﬁce
would assess and send bills in No-

Ci Please see TAX page 3

City action will delay Renassance start-up

_
By Chuck Broll
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee Fraternity
Renaissance has not moved forward as
expected because the Lexington Planning
Commission has failed to act on new zoning
proposals, said Associate D’ean"ofStu’£leiits
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins.

Atkins told the members of the Inter-
fraternity Council Tuesday that Sigma Alpha
Epsilon will probably not begin reconstruc-
tion on April 1 as expected, but he was
“pretty sure” the ﬁve “Red Square” frater-
nities will begin June 1.

The university asked the eight-rncmber
commission on Feb. 15 to recommend to the
City Council its requests for an enlargement
of the “Institutional Zone" and uncondition-
al use permits to be granted for all of the
buildings. The two requests would make the
buildings and properties of the fraternities
part of the Washington and Lee campus.

Citizens and commission members were
skeptical of the requests due to their possi--
ble effect on taxes and future uses.

Capital Planning Coordinator Frank Par-
sons, speaking at the Feb. 15 meeting, said
that “W&L will enhance the revenue stream
due to the appreciation of the fraternity
house values after the renovation." In addi-

' tion, Parsons said, while W&L and Virginia

Military Institute do not have to pay taxes,
they do anyway to help the city.
Regarding the future uses of the fratemi-
ties, Parsons said W&L could do what it
wanted with the buildings and land if the
new zoning proposals are enacted. Now,
each time a change is tnade, the school's
Master Plan would have to be revised.
Every Master Plan revision must be
approved by a recommendation of the Plan-
ning Commission and a vote of approval by
the Lexington City Council, Parsons said.
Should fraternities cease to exist, the
houses would still be used as residences, he
said, giving examples of a “French language

house, a vegetarian house,” or some type of
academic residence.

Commission member Camille Miller
asked Parsons to have W&L guarantee the
future use of the residences through “legal
restrictions.” Miller said she feared the
buildings would be demolished in the future
in order for W&L to build new dormitories,
classrooms or other structures.

Miller said she believed the commission
was unanimously in favor of the Renais-
sance program, bu" if the city were to grant
the university’s r,-quests, W&L could then
do anything with the enlarged zone.

“I am doing what’s right for my chil-
dren and grandchildren,” Miller said.

The commission called for a public
meeting on the zoning issues tor March 15,
at which time the university will present its
ﬁnancial proposal to the city.

City Manager Joseph King said “City
Council will honor the decision -or the
Planning Commission” and could make its
decision the same day as the public meeting.

W&L to house most displaced students

By James Lake
Associate Editor

Washington and Lee will be able to house
at least 63 of the 72 students who applied for
campus housing during the fall phase of
W&L's Fraternity Renaissance and should be
able to ﬁnd space for the other nine as well,
Assistant Dean of Students Ken Ruscio said
Tuesday.

The school had reserved only 35 spots for
the approximately 110 students who will be
displaced by the closing of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta, Phi
Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha and Sigma Nu
houses. Those spots are all in the Woods
Creek Apartments and Gaines Hall.

But Ruscio said additional vacancies in
Gaines and Woods Creek and the converting
of some single rooms into doubles would
provide 28 more spots. And he said he expects
to ﬁnd nine more beds on campus as well.

“I'm just fairly conﬁdent that we’ll be
able to ﬁnd nine places without going off-
campus,” he said. Ruscio declined to be
speciﬁc about where those spots tnight be, but
he did say some of the applicants now as-
signed to on—carnpus housing might decide to
live elsewhere.

“These assignments are all very tenta-
tive,” he said.

Ruscio said he was able to honor requests
for specific roommates and suitemates “pret-
ty well.” Speciﬁc assignments may be an-
nouced as soon as next week, Ruscio said.

Students Faculty retirements may bring personnel crisis

elect
Hatcher

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

The Executive Committee Big
Three run-offs culminated Thursday,
Feb. 15, in victory for Thompson
Hatcher, Raymond Welder and Jeffery
Kelsey. -

Hatcher defeated incumbent Wil-
lard Dumas for EC president with
680 votes to Dumas’ 577.

Hatcher expressed appreciation to
his supporters. “I’m going to do the
very best I can to be easily accessible
next year,” he said.

The seat of EC vice president
went to Welder, whose 735 votes
defeated John Fialcowitz’s 518, while
Kelsey claimed the post of secretary
with 655 votes to Caroline Wight’s
587.

The Voting Regulations Board
reported that 1,275 students voted.

“I was very pleased with the
undergraduate turnout,” said VRB
Chairman Wesley Goings. “It was
probably the most we’ve had in
years.”

At Monday night’s EC meeting,
Dumas congratulated the winners on
behalf of the student body and
thanked all the candidates for their
time.

Goings agreed with senior EC
Rep. John “Jack” Pringle that there
may be a need for more voting boxes
for Big Three elections. Pringle made
that statement at the EC meeting on
Feb. 12. '

The VRB has three boxes. In
undergraduate elections, they are
placed in the Baker-Davis—Gilliam
Quad, the ODK Circle, and outside
the University Library. However, in
elections involving the Law School

Cl Please see HATCHER page 4

By Chris Baradel
Staff Reporter

According

Washington and Lee is faced with a poten-
tial personnel crisis in the next decade, accord-
ing to university officials. The school is
squeezed between an abnormally high number
of senior faculty members and a decreasing

number of qualiﬁed replacements.
“The anticipated retirement

H

for the immediate future,

projections
present us with possibly our greatest challenge
said Vice President
and Dean of the College John W. Elrod. “We
have the task of hiring 25 to 30 faculty mem-

Seven professors
face retirement rule

By Chris Baradel
Staff Reporter

Seven senior faculty members will
be affected by Washington and Lee’s
mandatory retirement rule in the next
four years.

The rule says these professors
must retire no later than the end of
the academic year in which they turn
70, with no exceptions.

According to university President
John Wilson, all colleges and univer-
sities were granted a special dispensa-
tion allowing thetn to have mandatory
retirement rules, which are illegal for
other businesses, to create vacancies
for minority professors and women
professors.

Although the dispensation will
probably be revoked by Congress on
Jan. 1, 1993, according to W&L Vice
President and Dean of the College
John Elrod, the mandatory retirement
rule will still affect the seven profes-
sors whose 70th birthdays fall before
that day.

They are romances languages
Prof. C. Westbrook Barritt, joumalism

Prof. Clark Mollenhoff, accounting
Prof. Jay Cook Jr., chemistry Prof. J.
Keith Shillington, psychology Prof. H.
Eugene King, German Prof. Buford
Stephenson and Commerce School
Prof. Edward Atwood Jr. They have
divergent views on mandatory retire-
ment, ranging from acceptance to
indifference to displeasure.

King is retiring at the end of this
school year, three years before forced
retirement, and Shillington has been
in a gradual retirement program for
the last three years.

Atwood, Barritt and Cook said
mandatory retirement doesn‘t bother
them.

“I want to have’ time to spend my
pension!"said Atwood, who added
that he doesn’t know if he will teach
until he is 70.

“I’m ready to retire,” said Cook.
“I'm not going to make an issue out
of it. After the number of years I’ve
been teaching, I've got enough things
to keep me occupied.”

Barritt said, “I'm not retiring
early, but its also fair to let someone

E] Please see RETIRE page 3

‘ bers in the next decade, and ﬁnding high-qua1i-
ty people is going to be difficult.”
to university President John
Wilson, Washington and Lee has a higher
percentage of faculty in the 65-70 age group
than most schools. There are 47 current profes-
sors who will be at least 65 by the year 2000,
an age where they can retire with full pension
and social security benefits. At least 10 of them
have indicated plans to retire by the end of the
1990-1991 academic year. Elrod said the sci-
ences, languages and commerce departments
will probably have the toughest time ﬁnding
qualiﬁed people, because the number of doctor-
ate candidates is down nationwide. A doctorate

degree is a prerequisite for a professor at W&L
“99 percent” of the time, Elrod said.

However, many department heads, who are
in charge of conducting searches to ﬁnd new
professors, say that at this time they have no
problems ﬁnding qualiﬁed applicants.

“We are in the middle of a search at this
moment, and I’m very excited about the quality
of the candidates," said Prof. Hampden H.
Smith III, head of the journalism department.
“Washington and Lee’s reputation attracts very
impressive candidates, and the journalism
department has a very good reputation. We had
three applicants who didn't apply anywhere
else.”

~a.

‘You parked it where?’

Police say a Glasgow girl came up with a new parking idea the night of Feb. 16. According to police and
witnesses, this car was wrecked on these steps near the Phi Kappa Sigma house and later reported stolen

Prof. J . Kevin Green, head of the accounting
department, expressed a feeling many of his
colleagues share. “I believe there is a constitu-
ency of good people who want to come to a
place like Washington and Lee,” he said.

Prof. Robert Strong, head of the politics
department, said, “We can see that there will
be fewer applicants than in the past, but I don’t
think it will be too big a problem. I would
guess, and these things are always a guess, that
we will have fewer applications but will be able
to ﬁll our needs.”

W&L’s academic reputation should attract

Cl Please see CRISIS page 3

by the same girl who did the damage. Police say charges are pending. Photo by Rich Feuring.

 

  

OPINION

EC business goes
behind closed doors

The Executive Committee shall not go into executive session
except in the case of possible honor violations. —- The
Washington and Lee Student Body Constitution, Article
V, Section P.

This sentence may come as a surprise to some EC
members, but it’s there nevertheless. It’s also probably news
to Fancy Dress Chairman Alex Hitz, who at the Feb. 12
EC meeting asked to give his budget report behind closed
doors.

To be fair to Hitz, it’s not his responsibility to enforce
the student body’s rules; it’s the EC’s. That’s why we were
surprised and disappointed to see the EC vote
overwhelmingly to go into executive session. The only
dissenters in the 10-3 vote were senior Rep. David
Radulovic, junior Rep. John Fialcowitz and President Willard
Dumas. There was no debate, no discussion; the EC simply
did it. After the meeting, none of the EC members we
contacted would explain the vote for the record.

The EC is answerable to no one but the student body.
Its members are bound only by their oaths of office, by
which they “do solemnly swear to support” the student
body constitution. Accordingly, when they go into executive
session, they are there for one reason only: to discuss
possible honor violations. Right?

Apparently not. Apparently, the 10 EC members who
voted to close the door aren’t too concerned about the
constitution. Apparently, they are more interested in doing
what they think is best than what the constitution says is
best.

We have been vocal supporters of the EC this year,
especially for its leadership in cleaning up financial problems
in the Student Activities Board. We do not enjoy criticizing
the same body that has performed so well in the past. But
that support lasts only as long as the EC acts in the best
interest of the student body. And, no matter what reason
Hitz offered, it could not possibly be more important than
the charter by which the EC was established.

We are especially troubled that junior Rep. Tom Hatcher,
the EC president-elect, was among those who voted for

closure. That same night, Hatcher was out campaigning for
a “more open” student government. He seemed to be out
to garner student support by using “More Openness!” as
a campaign slogan — disregarding facts he certainly should
have known about the current EC’s performance.

Until Feb. 12, we had seen no evidence of secrecy; in
fact, we had seen abundant evidence to the contrary. When
the EC investigated the SAB last fall, the Phi and the student
body were allowed to observe the entire process. Even
though the process was at times ugly, Dumas and the EC
remained committed to full openness. The EC seemed to
recognize that students have a right to know how their
student activities money is spent.

That right should not be limited by the EC’s whim, and
it should not change when a new president takes office.
We hope that the EC’s vote for closure two weeks ago was
its last. And we hope next year’s student body won’t have
the same concerns we do.

Ours and yours

Unsigned editorials that appear in this column are the
work of The Ring-tum Phi ’s editorial board, which consists
of the Phi ’s editors, associate editors, editorial page editor
and senior copy editor. We will occasionally publish
editorials that are not supported by the entire board; those
pieces carry the initials of their authors.

As the editors of a student newspaper, we feel an obli-
gation to publish each and every student-opinion piece we
receive, and we encourage students and other members of
the W&L community to submit letters or “My Views.”
However, we reserve the right to edit any and all submis-
sions for reasons of taste, libel, clarity or length.

The Phi is indeed our newspaper, but it is no more ours
than it is yours. The quality and diversity of its opinion
page are dependent on your submissions.

 

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

    

 

  
 

  
  

  

Editors .................................................. ..Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison
Associate Editors ................................... ..Jarnes Lake, Genierme Mongno
Assignment Editor ..................................................................... ..Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor ...................................................... ..Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor .......................................................... ..Parnela Kelley
Sports Editor ........................................................................... ..Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor ............................................................. ..Alesha Priebe
Editorial Cartoonist ........................................................... ..Jeff Woodland

 
 
      
   
      
     
 

   

Business Manager Anne Dysart
Advertising Manager ............................................................. ..Jason Kelley
Circulation Managers ................................. ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

........... ..

 
    
  

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

   
     
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
    

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

      
 

The Ring-tum Phl, March 1, 1990

E

-1

Ti’

J

4

Fighting over women in combat .

MY VIEW

By Mary Jo Dunnington

If we want true gender
equality, women should be

 

he does deliberately ignore the fact that no sane
person would allow a woman into combat who did
not meet the same physical standards and training
required of her male counterpart. And the “per-

**4 

EDITOR'S NOTE: Mary Jo Dunnington is an
editorial-page editor of the University of North
Carolina's student newspaper. This column first
appeared in The Daily Tar Heel and is reprinted
with permission.

Early this month, Americans began to hear
stories about Capt. Linda Bray’s bravery in an inci-
dent in Panama. Immediately after the incident,
Bray was christened the first woman to command
a U.S. Army unit in combat. Since then, the exact
details of the incident have become muddled to the
point that it is unclear what happened when Bray’s
military-police platoon was instructed to secure a
Panamanian guard—dog kennel.

But the details of this one incident hold little

I importarice.,For Bray’s experience in no way sym-

bolizes‘ whether women have potential for success
in combat. The only significance in what did hap-
pen to Bray lies in how it has reopened the issue
of women in combat to public debate. And this
time there are signs that many Americans may be

allowed and expected on the
front lines.

Even the earliest media coverage of Bray’s
participation in combat in Panama made the event
out to be a milestone for women. Quotes from
those who worked with Bray reinforced the idea
that she served in Panama as a soldier, not as a
woman. In another time, the loudest voices we
heard would have been those decrying the idea of
a woman under fire; today, the loudest voices are
filled with pride at the idea of a woman serving
her country equally with men.

Since then, of course, both sides have presented
arguments, but those against women on the front
lines find themselves clinging to ﬂimsy premises.

[One retired brigadier general in North Carolina

argued in a recent newspaper column that many
tests have shown that women are not suited for
combat. Those against women in battle point to,
among other things, their smaller size, lesser

sonal hygiene problems” -— apparently primariljg
menstruation — are not debilitating problems, but
rather natural occurrences that would not impair .-
female soldier's ability as is so preposterousbg
suggested.

The general continues with another excep3
tionally weak argument: “Even the favorite femi-’
nist argument that some women are stronger than
some men does not hold up, because wars are no?
fought with exceptions, they are fought wi
averages.” Who exactly, then, ﬁghts? Aren’t ar-
mies made up of individuals who possess certain,
qualiﬁcations? Women with those qualifications
may indeed be fewer in number than men — the)’
may to a degree be exceptions to their gender. Bug
as soldiers, these women are as average as any.

The bottom line is that if we want true gender?
equality, women should be allowed — even ex-
pected — to take their places on the front lines,’
just as they are taking their places in management
government and medicine. The majority of soldiers
on the battlefield will probably never be female.

willing
women’s right to fight.

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

In the interest of broadening the
collective scientific horizons of the
community, I have decided to write
an informative article about sleep and
dreaming that I hope my editor will
title, I Dream therefore I dream. With
a high-powered title like that I’ll be
taken seriously by campus scholars
who read untranslated Plato in their
spare time.

According to scientists, who wear
white laboratory jackets and read
scientific journals, all humans require
sleep because those who are deprived
of it turn into ranting lunatics and
run around naked in the moonlight
looking for insects to eat and ripping
clumps of hair out of their heads.
These scientists are the same ones
who wanted to build a UFO Wel-
come Center in New York City, so
don't take them too seriously.

Dreaming, which is the purpose of
sleep, was discovered a couple of
weeks after the dawn of man by a
prehistoric man named Brickhead. All

OUT H998

to support true gender equality and

Washington
wou|dn’t chop

I am writing in response to the numerous
large trees that were removed form the PiKA,
Phi Dell, and Beta quad over break. At first, I
thought that the trees were destroyed because of
possible interference with construction (i.e. —
bulldozers and other construction equipment
needed to be brought in to carry out the renova-
tions). I reluctantly accepted this reasoning,
although I know of many houses whose “mon-
umental” trees were spared the axe of progress
during the construction of the homes.

However, I recently discovered that these
trees were cut down for landscaping purposes.
These trees, which once provided shade and

of Brickhead’s friends (even his dog,
Cement) believed that only evil spirits
could see pictures during sleep and,
consequently, Brickhead was burned
at the stake the minute someone
invented fire. When the leader of the
tribe, himself, had a dream, he sacri-
ficed all of Brickheads old friends
(even Cement) to Ublarahaha, the god
of Justice and Sweet Revenge. A me-
morial fund was then established in
honor of Brickhead and each year the
prehistoric teen-ager who had the
most dreams received a scholarship
fund (too bad there weren't any col-
leges yet).

Although later cave men used to
talk a lot about dreams and even
draw pictures of the really good ones,
dreams weren't really taken seriously
until Freud. Freud believed that drea-
ming is the subconscious mind's
indirect way of telling the rest of the
person that he is really a demented
pervert. Freud then invented “psy-
cho—analysis” so that he could make
easy money interpreting humorous
dreams.

Patient: Dr. Freud, last night I
dreamed that I was shoplifting candy
bars at this underground grocery store

strength and “personal hygiene problems.”
This general and the many others who think as

Sbar writes headlines? Dream on!

with a gorilla and two zebras. What
does this mean?

Dr. Freud (in a German accent):
HO HO HA HA! That’s very funny,
Fraulein. And these two zebras. Were
they male or female?

Patient: One was male and the
other female. The male had an ear-
ring in his nose.

Dr. Freud: HO HO HO HO! A
gold earring you say! HA HA HA
HA! The case is now obvious to me.
You secretly desire to kill your fa-
ther and marry your mother.

Patient: But I'm a woman. Why
would I want to replace my father?

Dr. Freud: Exactly what I am
getting at, Fraulein. Deep down inside
you wish that you were a man. In
scientific terms this means you have
“penis envy.”

Because I generally sleep a lot I
consider myself an authority on
dreams. I also consider myself to be
an expert on cooking because I eat a
lot, (who cares if the most complicat-
ed thing that I’ve ever cooked was
macaroni and cheese).

I agree with Freud that some
dreams tell a lot about the person
who has them. For example, while

LETTERS I

the Colonnade do.

Sincerely,
Brian F. Kopet, '91

aesthetic beauty for the three houses, were
considered “eye-sores" to the people of the
renovation project. Now the entire quad is an
eyesore. In the same way that the towering old
trees make the Hill what it is, the trees (specif-
ically the one directly behind PiKa and the one
directly behind Beta) made the quad what it was.
I know that the new landscaping will attempt to
improve the area, but I fear that the grounds will
become another Wake Forest, which is also
known as Fake Forest because of its very plan-
ned landscapes and lack of ancient trees. I am
sorry, but I do not see the harm these two
gorgeous trees brought upon the new project.
Please do not destroy an undertaking that is so
potentially beneficial to the school, by creating a
newly constructed dorrn-like setting from the
timely beauty of the three 60-plus year-old
fraternity houses. Allow them to retain their
appearance, the way that the main buildings of

Caulkins’

VOIC.

Wesley Goings, ’90, Voting Regulations Board

Vote for your
class reps

First of all, I want to congratulate the stu-
dent body for its large turnout for the “Big ’
Three” elections. Close to 75 percent of the
undergraduates voted during the run offs, far
surpassing the turnouts of past years. Second, I 0
want to remind everybody that the class elec-
tions are coming up. Petitions for class presi- I
dents, vice-presidents, and Executive Committee .
representatives may be picked up in Carol
office now,
MANDATORY meeting on March 5, at 5 p.m. ,
in the EC room. All candidates MUST attend.
Also, the elections will be held on Monday,
March 12, with the runcffs on Thursday, March
15. I urge all students to get up on the Hill and

but genders should cease to be a determining factor
in the military.

§.§.2'

sleeping under an oak tree, I once‘
dreamed that I was an ant in one of,
those busy ant hills where everyone
was carrying crumbs to the Queen
Ant and digging holes in the sand.‘
To avoid this ant labor, I hid under a,
weed and took a nap. During this nap‘
that I had as an ant I dreamed that I
was a human sleeping under an oak’
tree. When I finally woke up, I‘.
couldn't decide if I should go into a
house or an ant hill. The implica-5
tions of this dream are relatively
clear. It demonstrates that I am lazy’
and unsure whether I am an ant or a_
human being. '
Most of my dreams, however, are;
not nearly as meaningful as this one.
In fact, most of my dreams prove’
just how boring and stupid a subcon-
scious mind can be. In one dream 1'
had, for example, I can’t find my,
running shoes. In another all I do is
back a car out of my driveway. What’
do these dreams mean, you might
ask. Absolutely nothiyng. As much as’
I'd like to continue telling readers
about some of my dreams, I find thaty
I’ve grown extremely tired and would.’
prefer to crawl into my ant hill and
get some sleep. 5

5

I

fji V

and are due at the '

 

Tie Sosnowski with the Berlin Wall. Photo by W. Patrick Hineiy.
L

The Fflng-tum Phl, March 1, 1990

REHRE

from page 1

else step in. I don’t have any strong
feelings one way or the other.”

One man who does have strong
feelings is Mollenhoff.

“I think professors should go on
teaching beyond 70 if they are
healthy,” he said. “Mandatory retire-
ment is wasting the talent of elderly

people. I don't feel old and crotchety
yet. My age hasn’t kept me from
working hard, and I enjoy the stu-
dents too. If I had been teaching for
35 or 40 years, then I might be ready
to quit.

“If I get to the point where I
wake up and go ‘I don’t want to go
to school today,’ I’ll step down. I’ll
know when its time,” he added.

Mollenhoff said he has no desire

-‘to continue teaching full-time, but

would like to teach one semester a
year, perhaps ﬁlling in for professors
on a sabbatical. He would be willing
to take a pay cut to make room for
new professors, he added, because he
believes it is a good idea for the
university to take on new faculty.

The former Pulitzer Prize winner will
be a visiting lecturer at the University
of Wyoming in the fall of 1991.
Although he said he will have plenty
of engagements to keep him busy, he

CRENS

said he would “like to stay around
Lexington.”

Stephenson declined to comment
on his view of mandatory retire-
ment.President Wilson said he doesn't
think many professors will choose to
teach after 70, noting that they can
retire with full pension and social‘

security beneﬁts as early as 65.

Several professors whose 70th
birthdays fall soon after the mandato-
ry retirement rule is likely to be
repealed have already made their
retirement decisions.

Art History Prof. Gerard Doyon
and Associate Athletic Director Rich-
ard Miller are both retiring this year,
“I’m an artist,” said Doyon. “I
can’t wait to become a Sunday paint-
er all week.”

Mathmatics Prof. Henry Sharp Jr.
is retiring after the winte term in
1991; and English Prof. Sidney Coul-
ling and politics Prof. Milton Colvin
are retiring at the end of the 1990-91
school year. “I will be 68 next sum-
mer," said Colvin. “I think it is
high time to step out.” ‘

Prof. William Watt, head of the
chemistry department, echoed Colvin.
“I don’t believe in teaching past 70
and I don’t intend to,” he said. “I

“If I get to the point
where I wake up and
go ‘I don’t want to
go to school today,’
I’ll step down. I’ll
know when its time.”
— Clark Mollenhoff

think teachers should retire at 70.
They start to lose their energy before
then.”

Some professors are unsure if they
will elect to teach after 70.

“The question must be decided by
each individual,” said English Prof.
Severn Duvall. “I think at 70 it’s
about time to step aside. I don’t think
I want to teach past 70, but I would
be willing to do something part-time,
even without pay, if the university
needed it.”

Duvall said space for talented
young teachers could be limited if
teachers decide to continue after 70.
He said the university could take
steps to remove professors if that
became a problem, but emphasized
that he didn't believe Washington and
Lee would use such tactics.

HATCHER

from page 1

and undergraduate campus, the library
box is moved outside the Moot
Courtroom.

Petition sheets and rules are
available at University Center Coor-
dinator Carol Calkins’ office in the
Urtiversity Center for candidates for
senior class president; three senior
class vice presidents; junior class
president and vice president; soph-
omore class president and vice presi-
dent; and two EC representatives
from each of the rising sophomore,
junior and senior classes.

Those petitions are due with 50
signatures at a mandatory candidates’
meeting at 5 p.m. in the EC room on
Monday.

Applications for the White Book
Revisions Committee are also avail-
able in Calkins’ ofﬁce. They are due
March 12.

EC Vice President Jonathan Shein-
berg released Monday night the sche-
dule for remaining winter term budget
reports. Women’s Field Hockey and
Rugby Club will come before the EC
on March 5; Ariel and Independent
Union on March 12; Cold Check
Committee, Liberty Hall Volunteers
and Fancy Dress on March 19; Mi-
nority Student Association and Vol-
leyball Club on March 26; and Fenc-
ing Club and Student Activities Board
on April 2.

from page 1
I
It I 3 candidates, he added, but lesser aca- been a surplus of junior faculty can- important,” Elrod said. “The people ing to Elrod, the university believes
'  S    demic institutions may have trouble didates for the last 10 or 12 years. who have been here support the that the senior faculty members are
5 ﬁlling their vacancies. However, he said he believes that an culture." so good it is better to have them
i Even the heads of departments intensive recruiting program by math One of those people is economics teaching part-tirne than not at all.
,  k a    e  I that could be in danger, such as graduate school programs should Prof. John Gunn. He said, “It is Gunn, who will be going on
‘ economics, accounting, chemistry and increase the supply of young math important to transmit the W&L cul- phased retirement next year, echoed
; ., Spanish, said they are conﬁdent their professors by the end of this decade. ture to new faculty; things like the the praise Elrod has for the program.

Q

A 1_~_I;_O. 1

From News Releases

Washington and Lee senior Tie D.
Sosnowski will present “When the
Wall Came Tumbling Down,” an
account of his brief trips to Berlin
last fall to collect pieces of the Berlin
Wall, tomorrow at 4 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium.

W&L history professor Lamar

objects pertaining to his project will
be on display in the Main Lobby of
the library for the month of March.

Sosnowski, a Dallas native, made
national news last fall when he went
to Berlin, chisel in hand, to collect
pieces of the wall. He returned to
Berlin after having set up a lucrative
business selling pieces.

A European history major at

departments can recruit qualified
people to fill vacancies in the next
few years.

“We’re optimistic,” said Prof.
Bruce Herrick, head of the economics
department. “I’m very confident
about the ability of Washington and
Lee to attract qualiﬁed candidates.
You can’t ‘replace’ senior people...but
at the moment we’ve found attractive
candidates willing to come here.”

Prof. Sidney Williams, Jr., head of

Prof. Edwin Craun, head of the
English department, said that while
there is a surplus of potential English
professors and Washington and Lee is
a very attractive place to work, the
heavy load of teaching seven courses
a year discourages some candidates
from coming to Washington and Lee.

“The greatest problem is the
number of courses people have to
teach,” he said. “Almost all appli-
cants mentioned course load as a

honor code, the role of Washington
and Lee in training community lead-
ers, appreciating the character of the
student body and molding that char-
acter to the aims of liberal educa-
tion."

Gunn is one of a growing number
of professors participating in a pro-
gram that eases the transition from
full-time teaching to retirement for
the professor and the university.

It is called phased retirement. A

“I think its an excellent program for
W&L and the profess rs. When I was
younger, I thought I’d never want to
retire. Now I would like to,. but I
don’t want to quit altogethenzso part-
time teaching appeals to me.‘ Phased
retirement gives the school more
ﬂexibility in replacing professors.”
Psychology Prof. H. Eugene King,
who has been in phased retirement
for two years, sees one problem with
the program. “It’s not so easy to cut

 Cecil ‘Yin 1 “[150 . 81"; ha: 3.911 ::,1§‘LMrsS°mv(:]VaV1St:ir ils: ‘hS°OSS::w(S’£iM(; the Spanish department, said, “We drawback to teaching here.” professor is eligible at 66, after hav- the teaching obligations in half,” he
com an ing ecure in w ic e wi . - - - ~ - - - u
‘ discllfss ythe function and Symbolism Dallas‘ just went through the [replacement] Some of the vacancies that will ing taught at Washington and Lee for said. Anyone who cares about the

of the Wall, and the implications its , .

destruction will have for Germany,

«. Europe and the world as a whole.

The talks are open to the public
and a reception will follow. An ex-
hibit of pieces of the wall which
Sosnowski brought back and other

Lamar Cecil, Kenan Professor of,

History at W&L, has published num-
erous books and articles on German
history. He joined the W&L faculty
in 1982 after teaching at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
from 1968 until 1982.

process and" we‘ didn't have‘ any ‘trou-

- ble ﬁnding applicants. We‘had“more
than 50 people apply for each posi-

tion.

Other department heads said that
while they have some difﬁeulties in
filling vacancies, these difﬁculties are
far from insurmountable.

have to be ﬁlled in the next four

"‘yea'rs‘ willbe created by’ ‘a’ ‘university

rule stipulating that all faculty mem-
bers must retire at the end of the
academic year in which they turn 70.

This type of mandatory retirement
rule will likely be after Jan. 1, 1993,
according to Elrod. Colleges and

ten full years. The phased retirement

'pr'ogrtttn"1’ast's froinitwo to'ﬁ\/eyéars‘, i‘

uponnthe desire of the professor, and
involves a decreased teaching load
corresponding with a pay cut.

In the first year of phased retire-
ment, a professor teaches half of the
normal class load at 75 percent sala-

students will do rnore." The salary,
he joked, iis “riiiich ‘easierfor the
university‘ to —chop in half. King
stressed that retirement is the begin-
ning of new careers for some people.
He said he will be writing medical
dictionaries and scientific biographies
when he leaves W&L. Even faculty

¢ Prof. Henry Sharp Jr., head of the universities are the only businesses ry. All subsequent years, the profes- members who have elected not to go
~  mathematics department, said his allowed to have mandatory retirement sor again handles half the normal into phased retirement have praise for

‘ department has had a vacancy to ﬁll laws, Wilson said. He said it would class load, but at 50'percent salary. the program. Romance languages
, T in each of his seven years there, but be a mistake for Congress to take A younger faculty member is Prof. C. Westbrook Bamtt called
always eventually found exceptional mandatory retirement rules away from brought in to take up the slack for phased retirement an “excellent

1 from page 1 professors. colleges because it could limit space the retiring professor. Ideally, the idea,” and English Prof. Sidney

V~ vember. The bill can be paid in two

installments, with one coming due
inDecember and the other in early
June, she said.

Baker said it will be easier for the
students in the long run if the schools
provide the vehicle information. The
entire process will be quicker and
simpler allowing students morc time
to pay the bill or get the proof

needed for exemption, she said.

If the schools refuse the city’s
request, King said Baker would have
the right to employ other means of
finding the vehicles kept in the city
but not registered.

“She would have the right to go
on the campus and record vehic-
les...certainly anywhere on public
property,” he said.

“One way or the other we’re
going to ﬁnd it, ”said Baker.

“We may not be able to get the
exact person we’re looking for in a
particular year, but we can recruit
successful candidates within a year or
two,” he said. “We’ve always been
able to find highly qualified tempo-
rary employees to help out when
needed, which is pretty much every
year. Positions can be ﬁlled, just not
as easily as they used to be.”

Sharp said that part of the prob-
lem in ﬁnding the perfect candidate
in a given year is that there has not

for new faculty members..

W&L conducts national and some-
times international searches for new
faculty, according to Elrod, with a
special effort made to contact quali-
ﬁed W&L alumni.

Once the right candidates are
hired, the problem is teaching them
about the features peculiar to W&L
that make the school so special.
“Having the culture of Washington
and Lee passed on from one genera-
tion of faculty to the next is very

senior professor is supposed to serve
as a mentor, according to Wilson.
This gives the new professor time to
get accustomed to the conventions of
Washington and Lee.

Since the beginning of the pro-
gram in the 1985-86 academic year,
Elrod said, slightly more professors
have chosen phased retirement than
regular retirement.

“I think its an excellent pro-
gram,” he said. “It benefits the
faculty and the institution.” Accord-

Coulling, who is retiring in 1991,
said the program is “attractive.”
Most professors who are not interest-
ed in phased retirement cited either
complications it would cause in their
department, or a desire to stop teach-
ing once they decide they don’t want
to teach full-time.

Philosophy Prof. Harrison Pember-
ton said that while phased retirement
is popular with his colleagues, he's
not interested “unless I get dodder-
ing.”

F4

 

TALKBACK

‘‘If you could name this year’s Fancy Dress theme

after any great American novel,
  which novel would it be?”

; , ‘M .1?.,.$’.;;. .

 

 .,.. ..._ ,
w%w:eemw-«w« <-

 

 

__ Joel Smith, 90, Eufaula, Al. — Russell Crosby. ’91. Jacksonville, Marty Smith, ’90, Houston, Tex. Kimberly Booth, ’91, Atlanta, Ga. Jim Cadranell, ’92, Seattle, Wash.
f 5 “Moby Dick.” F1‘_‘- ‘ “N”? €309’ lj‘fe of Walfer and 31153“ DFIVIS, ’90s L0“iSV1“9a — “Willy Wonka and the Chocolate - “The Scarlet Letter. Everyone
' Ml");-1 I (i11ﬂVfe{1l”|'€ad 11 bﬁfores IV5 Ky. — “The Shining.” Factory,” could dress like puritans.”
just ear o it.
y
, .4’

 

 

 NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1, 1990

From News Releases

Lionel Hampton, an established
jazz superstar around the world, and
his 17—member Big Band will per-
form in Lexington as part of the
Rockbridge Concert-Theater Series.

For more than half a century,
Hampton has helped create musical
history as a composer, conductor and
entertainer.

In 1930, Hampton had a chance
meeting with jazz great Louis Arm-
strong. He ended up playing the
vibes for Armstrong - the first time
jazz had been played on the instru-
ment. This spurred Hampton's interest
in the vibes and inspired him to form
his own band in 1934.

Harnpton’s band travelled through-
out California, until in 1936 they met
Benny Goodman at The Paradise
Club. This meeting was the beginn-
ing of the swing era. It was also the
first time blacks and whites played
together in a major musical group.

Hampton left Goodman in 1940
and calls the period following this the
most significant in American popular
music.

“It was a melting pot of music,”
Hampton declares. “Unbeknownst to
us, we were playing the chords that
are now considered modern.”

Since Hampton left Goodman, he
has been travelling the roads with his
own band.

The jazz great’s music contribu-
tions to the world have already be-
come legendary. He has a host of

 Jazz great performs at VMI

awards and honors. In 1984, he was
nominated for a Grammy in the cate-
gory of “Best Rock Instrumental
Performance” for “Vibramatic.” He
also received a Grammy nomination
in 1985 for his album “Ambassador
at Large" in the “Performance by a
Big Band” category.

Also in 1985, Hampton was ap-

pointed the official “Ambassador of
Music" to the United Nations.
Hampton will perform at Jackson
Memorial Hall at Virginia Military
Institute on March 4 at 8 p.m.

Tickets are $12 for adults and $5
for students. They are available at
the door and at Quality Quick Print.

W&L ROTC
trains with
VMI cadets

From News Releases

Operation — Winter Warrior pitted
Washington and Lee's ROTC Mink
Battalion and Virginia Military Insti-
tute’s New Market Army ROTC
Battalion seniors against the under-
classmcn for three days of training
exercises in George Washington Na-
tional Forest earlier this month.

The first ever joint exercise, held
Feb. 3-5, helped prepare the third-
year cadets for Advance Camp at Ft.
Bragg, N.C., this summer, said New
Market Army cadet Chris Larlee. The
cadets were also able to put into
practice the tactics they learned on
the fall training exercises at Fort Lee,
N.J.

Upon reaching George Washington

, National Forest Friday evening, the’

Winter Warrior Platoon moved
through the woods to the first patrol
base. From there, the platoon divided
into three different squads and con-
ducted security patrols of the area in
order to secure the perimeter, recon-
noiter terrain, and gain information
about the enemy, the seniors from the
two units.

The department of Military Art
and Leadership will hold another
exercise during Spring Term at Ft.
Bragg to further prepare for this
summer’s Advance Camp.

CEO talks advertising to C-school

From News Releases

Reginald K. Brack Jr., president
and chief executive officer of The
Time Inc. Magazine Company, will
lecture at Washington and Lee March
6 and 7 under the auspices of the
Ambassador Program of The Adver-
tising Educational Foundation.

Brack, who is a 1959 W&L grad-
uate, will speak Tuesday at 8 pm. in
room 327 of the Commerce School.
His topic will be “Advertising: Cap-
italism’s Fuel and Democracy’s
Friend.” Brack’s program will in-
clude agdetailed presentation to the
general audience explaining the role
advertising plays in today's society.
During his two-day visit, Brack will
also attend psychology, commerce
and journalism classes and meet with
students and faculty members.

Brack was named chaimian, presi-
dent and chief executive officer of
Time Inc. Magazines in December
1986. Time Inc. Magazines publishes
Time, Life, Fortune, Sports 11-
lustrated, Money, People, Sports Il-
lustrated for Kids, and the magazines
of Southern Progress Corporation, and
participates in several magazine joint
ventures. It also includes all key
magazine support services.

Starting in August 1984, Brack
was CEO of Time Inc.’s Books
Group. He was chairman of Time-
Life Books, Inc. from November
1982 and president and CEO of that
Time Inc. subsidiary from November
1982 to October 1986. From May
1980 until November 1982 he served

as the founding publisher of Dis-
cover, Time Inc.’s magazine of sci-
ence and technology, which was sold
to Family Media in 1987.

Brack was associate publisher of
Time magazine from 1976 to 1980,
and was chief operating officer of the
magazine worldwide. He held the
positions of Time’s worldwide adver-
tising sales director (1974-86) and
director of Time International (1971-
74).

Prior to joining Time Inc. in
1962, Brack was with the Cutis Pub-
lishing Company and Eter Publicidad,
an advertising agency in Bucrros
Aires, Argentina.

Brack is a director of the Niag-
azinc Publishers of America and the
Advertising Council. He is also a
member of the Council for Commer-
cial Freedom arrd the Learing Council
on Advertising Issues. In addition, he
is a member of the board of trustees
of the National Urban League and
chairman of the Urban League’s
Commerce and Industry Council.

The Advertising Educational Foun-
dation [AEF] is a nonprofit organiza-
tion supported by agencies, media
companies, and advertisers and is
dedicated to building a better under-
standing and greater appreciation of
the socioeconomic role of advertis-

ing. The Ambassador Program of the ,.

AEF sends high-level, seasoned ad-
vertising or marketing executives, like
Brack, to colleges and universities
across the country to discuss with
students and faculty the advertising
process, how it fits into our economic
and social structure, and the issues
surrounding advertising.

Environment

The environmental section of
the Outing Club will meet on
Monday, March 5 at 5 p.m. in
room 113 of the University
Center. (Please note the time and
room change.)

Hiking trip

The Outing Club is sponsoring
a hike to Apple Orchard Falls on
Saturday, March 3 at 10 a.m. Our
route will take us along the Appa-
lachian Trail, and there are five
views of the valley below. Wear
sturdy shoes or boots and warm
clothing; bring along water, rain
protection, and a lunch. Please
sign up in advance outside Baker
109; the hike leaves from Baker
109 as well. Transportation is
provided. Call Tim Clark (464-
4448) for more information.

Ranger needed

Douthat State Park is now
accepting applications for the
position of Maintenance Ranger
for Spring and Summer 1990.
Those interested in applying can
mail in a standard Virginia
Employment Application, or bring
a completed application to the
park office at this address:
Douthat State Park, Rt. 1, Box

GENERAL NOTES

212, Millboro, VA 24460. Ap-
plications are available at the park
office or may be picked up at any
Virginia Employment Commission
Office. Applicants will be
screened and interviews will be
held during the spring. Any ques-
tions can be answered by calling
the Douthat State Park at (703)
862-7200 Monday through Friday.
The Division of State Parks and
Douthat State Park are an equal
opportunity employer.

Roger Day

All students are invited to join
Roger Day on Saturday, March
11 during Fancy Dress Weekend
from 12-3 p.m. in the Gaines
Quad. Roger is a W&L graduate
and a former member of Hein-
sohn and Day. Refreshments will
be served. In case of inclement
weather, Roger will play in the
Gatehouse.

Filmfest

At 8 p.m. tomorrow and
Saturday, March 3, in Lewis Hall
(classroom A), the Film Society
plans to present Salaam Bombay.’
(India, 1988), directed by Mira
Nair. The film is in Hindi with
English subtitles. Winner of the
"Camera d‘Or" at Carmes, Salaam
Bombay! is a film of astonishing
visual and emotional impact. The

film focuses on a ten year old
boy who comes to Bombay in
hopes of making 500 rupees to
take home to his mother. This
extraordinary Dickensian vision of
street life in contemporary India
celebrates the humor, dignity, and
courage of street-children who
have been denied the luxury of
childhood.

CDP workshops

The Career Development and
Placement Office is sponsoring
three workshops for all interested
students. A workshop on choosing
majors will be held Monday,
March 5 from 3-4 p.m. in room
113 of the University Center. This
will be followed by a workshop
from 4-5 p.m. about getting a job.
On Friday, March 9 at 2 p.m. in
room 114 of the University Cen-
ter, Tom Hemdon ‘89 will speak
about starting in advertising and
public relations.

Internship

Seniors and underclassmcn
may apply for a three-part paid
summer internship spread among
paralegal duties at a law firm,
research assistant at capital mar-
kets organization, and research in
international specialty import/
export firm. The internship is in

Washington D.C. and Princeton,
NJ. Resumes will be mailed from
the Career Development and
Placement Office on March 7.

Rugby game

There is a W&L rugby game
Saturday, March 3 against VMI.
The game starts at 1 p.1n. at
VMI’s parade grounds.

JMU internship

James Madison University has
openings for Sept. 1990 Interna-
tional Internship positions. De-
signed primarily for juniors, se-
niors, graduate students, and re-
cent graduates, this new program
offers qualified Virginia students
it unique opportunity to gain
professional experience on an
international basis in their field of
interest. Complete details and
application materials are now
available for 33 positions in 8
countries. Packets have been sent
to the Career Development and
Placement Office. Interested stu-
dents may also request the infor-
mation directly from Judy Cohen
, Program Coordinator, at 301
Wilson Hall, James Madison
University, Harrisonburg, VA
22807, phone (703) 568-6979.
The deadline for applications is
March 15.

Aaron Copland’s Pulitzer Prize-
winning suite ital Appalachian
Spring will be the featured work in
a concert by the University-Rock-
bridge Symphony Orchestra Satur-
day at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Appalachian Spring, Copland’s
most popular work for orchestra, will
be performed in its original 1944
chamber orchestra version. The or-
chestra will also perform Ottorino
Respighi’s lute transcriptions of 16th
and 17th century Ancient Airs and
Dances [Suite No. 2], written in
1923. An Italian nationalist, Respighi
has preserved part of his country’s
rich musical heritage with this suite
of rustic dances and beautiful arias
artfully arranged for strings, wood-
winds, brass, percussion, harp and
harpsichord.

The concert will open with Sym-
phony No. 5 by William Boyce, one
of England’s most talented 18th cen-
tury composers.

The relatively unknown work
Overture ort Hebrew Themes by the
Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev,
will also be perforrrred. Originally
written for an ensemble that special-
ized in the performance of Jewish
music, the work contains two con-
trasting Hebrew tunes, one a toe-
tapping dance and the other a plain-
tive, moumful melody.

The University-Rockbridge Sym-
phony Orchestra, conducted by Barry
H. Kolman, is composed of university
students, community residents and
area professional musicians.

The concert is jointly sponsored
by Fine Arts In Rockbridge and the
department of music at W&L.

WHO’S ON THE HILL .

James B. Leavell, professor of I
history at Furman University, will!
deliver a slide lecture at W&L to-
night on the subject of pilgrlmages
in Japan. Leavell’s visit to the W&L ,
campus is sponsored by The East
Asian Studies Program. ”

V

The lecture, Pilgrimage: A
Search for the Sacred," will be pre-W
sented at 8 p.m.

Leavell earned his Ph.D. at Dukeil
University, where he specialized in’,
East Asian history and the history of
religions, with an emphasis on Bud-
dhism. 9

Prior to joining the faculty at
Furman in 1974, he taught at Seinan‘
Gakuin University in Fukuoka, and,
also served as a teaching consultant
for the Okayama and Kanagawat
Prefectural Boards of Education.‘
During his most recent sojoum- in‘
Japan in the fall" of 1987, Leavellt
taught at Kansai Gaidai, with whic
W&L has an exchange program.

Leavell is the author of numeroust
articles and papers, with topics runn-
ing from Buddhism to contemporary
Japanese architecture to the police of;
Meiji, Japan. In recent years, his
interest has increased in the subject‘
of pilgrirnages in Japan. In addition.
to studying the topic, he has walked
the routes of some of the well-known
pilgrimages and has hiked, camped‘
and taken photographs along the
routes. ’

Active in teacher training and‘
curriculum development, Leavell hasl
been selected as "Outstanding Teacher‘
of the Year" at Furman.

ITIERLE l'lORlTlRl'l'

“S.C.A. Wolff System Tanning Bed”

Manicures - Jewelry

   

Facial Waxing

  

01¢;-r3—J-‘up

Creative Nail Tips

 

F
Monday-Friday 10-7

Saturday 10-2 F"- 1‘ N°"“‘ V

703_463_1782 College Square Shopping Center
5
‘ _&A/€\/\£. '
I
1*
otg 0*” '
O
8

FALL & WINTER MERCHANDISE .
ON SALE NOW '

(703)463-5988

New Spring items arriving daily I
23 N. Main St. “
Lexington, VA 24450 ’

1

-v

‘.

4

{,.

*&-

CARAVANS3

V
70 Percent Off March 1 — 4 v
Making way for new Spring styles I,

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington /464-3500 I
Open Daily 10 AM — 6 PM/Sundays Noon - 5 PM I
r

 

  

 

gSPORTS

I

A

_ 0

9.,

Q-

A

Q,

G

A

‘a

4

‘,.

Q

A

1:

Senior Chris Mastrogiovanni goes to the goal in Wednesday's season-
opening lacrosse game against the University of Virginia. Mastrogiovanni
scored three goals, but Virginia proved to be too much and defeated the
Generals 14-5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

From W&L Sports Information

Four all-conference players, two

7 Division III All-Americans and a

national champion return to the
Washington and Lee men's tennis
roster this spring, but you won't ﬁnd
head coach Gary Franke gloating.

7 Despite all the returning talent,
Franke, whose squad opens its 1990
season March 2 at home against

,_ traditional early-season rival Penn

State, knows it will be an uphill
climb for his team to repeat the suc-
cess of recent years.

W&L has been to the NCAA
Division III Tournament ﬁve consecu-
tive years since 1985, placing second
twice, winning the national title in
1988 and finishing ﬁfth at last year's
championships. With national champi-
onship veterans Robert Haley and
Bobby Matthews gone to graduation,
Franke is taking a wait-and—see ap-
proach to 1990.

The Generals, depleted by gradua-
tion though they are, still have the
respect of their peers. W&L is ranked

' seventh in the nation in the preseason
Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches Asso-
ciation poll.

The four returning starters from
last year's No. 5 team in the nation
is one reason for this year’s favorable

, rating. Another reason lies in the fact
that one of those returning veterans

‘ just happens to be the best Division

III tennis player in the land.

John Morris, W&L’s senior No. 1
player and a three—time All-American,
begins the 1990 campaign the same
1 way he ended his 1989 season: as the

No. 1-ranked player in Division III.

Morris ﬁnished 1989 by winning 20

«it

t

straight matches and the national
singles championship, becoming the
ﬁrst W&L player to win the national
title. And Morris did it impressive
fashion, too, winning all six of his
matches in straight sets.

Morris, 26-9 _a year ago, appears
to be in good shape again this year.
The senior had a good fall season,
including a semiﬁnal ﬁnish at the No.
1 Flight at the James Madison Fall
Classic and a victory at No. 1 singles
at the W&L Fall Classic. He became
the ﬁrst W&L player to win any
singles title at the annual W&L fall
event.

Morris will be a key to W&L’s’
success this season, for sure, but he"’

will need plenty of help if the Gener-
als are going to make trip No. 6 to
the national tournament.

“John's been a great player for
us, and I'm hoping he can have the
same success this year that he had
last year,” said Franke, who is in his
12th season as director of the Gener-
als' tennis program. “Hopefully, John
will be able to raise everybody else’s

level, too."

Morris will be surrounded by a
less-experienced group than last year,
but it is a group not without its share
of laurels. Jurtior Bill Meadows has
won Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence singles arid doubles champion-
ships in each of his ﬁrst two seasons
at W&L. Meadows is the most expe-
rienced retumee, and he should get
the call at No. 2 singles after starting
at No. 6 as a freshman and then
moving to No. 4 last year.

Meadows will team with Morris,
who also collected the national dou-
bles championship last year, too, to

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1, 1990

U.Va. foils Stagnitta debut

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

At first glance, the 1990 version
of the Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team strongly resembles the
1989 unit. But that is only at first
glance.

Yes, 23 lettermen, including seven
starters, return from last year's squad,
which ﬁnished 4-9. But the coach is
new, and the attitude is new as well.

Jim Stagnitta, in his first year as
head coach, likes what he sees after
his ﬁrst pre—season. “I think they're
excited and they're confident," he
said of his players. “I think they're
starting to understand the system, and
they see how the system has worked.
They really think they can do well.”

As well they should. After beat-
ing Georgetown in one preseason
scrimmage, the team hung tough with
Division I powers North Carolina and
Penn, where Stagnitta was an all-Ivy
League defenseman and later assistant
coach.

“I think with the scrimmages
against Penn and North Carolina and
the season-opener with Virginia, we
will have faced three of the top Div-
ision I programs in the nation," said
Stagnitta. “When we get to the Div-
ision HI schedule, it will be like a
breath of fresh air. I think we'll be
ready.”

Leading the way for the Generals
will be the defense, bolstered by the
return of two-time All-America Reid
Campbell and junior goaltender Tom
Costello. Campbell, a four-year start-
er, will look to become the first four-
time all conference defenseman in
Old Dominion Athletic Conference

Morris will lead netters again

form W&L’s No. 1 doubles tandem.
This fall, the pair finished third at
JMU and then reached the No. 1
finals at the W&L Fall Classic.

Behind Meadows are senior Billy
Turmer and junior Reid Manley, who
will man the No. 3 and No. 4 slots,
respectively. Both Tunner (No. 6 last
year) and Manley (No. 5 last year)
won ODAC singles titles last spring.
The two then teamed together at the
ODAC Championships for the first
time all season and walked away with
the No. 3 doubles championship.

The early word on the rest of the
starting lineup for 1990 has sopho-
mores Jack Tinney and Kelly Vand-
ever ﬁlling in the No. 5 and 6 sin-
gles slots. While the two will be
competing intercollegiately for the
first time this spring, both got some
crucial experience during the fall
matches at W&L and James Madison.

Again Franke has dotted his
schedule with an assortment of beefy
Division III opponents and others
from across the tennis spectrum. The
Generals have a crucial back-to-back
mid-season tests when they travel to
play national finalist Swarthrnore and
pre—season No. 3 Washington College
on the last day of March and ﬁrst
day of April.

W&L also will make its annual
mid-April trek to Florida to take on
a murderers’ row of opponents from
the Sunshine State, including Division
II giant Rollins and NAIA powers
North Florida and Florida Institute of
Technology.

So, W&L will face the same
challenges it has had to face for the
last several years. In addition to their
national struggle, W&L will look to

READ PAM’S FD SUPPLEMENT

 

history.

Joining Campbell on the defense
will be senior Mike Nunan, a three-
year starter, and junior David Farace.
Also returning is senior Carlos Mil-
Ian, who had 21 ground balls in nine
games last year. Freshman Kirk Olsen
will be looked to to contribute on the
defense and as a long-stick mid-
ﬁelder.

Costello will be the anchor of the
defense. The junior made 126 saves
in 12 games last season, the most
saves since John Church's All-Amer-
ican season in 1988. Sophomore
Coleman Devlin also returns. Devlin
had 21 saves in seven games last
season.

At midﬁeld, a strong corps of
veterans will return. Junior Todd
Garliss has moved to the midﬁeld
from attack, where he was third on
the team in scoring last year. Garliss
will be teamed with senior Jim Jones
and junior Clark Wight.

On attack, the Generals will have
to ﬁnd a way to replace John Ware,
who graduated as the school's sixth
all-time leading scorer. Senior Chris
Mastrogiovanni will move to attack
from rriidﬁeld this season and serve
as the go-to guy.

Joining Mastrogiovanni on the
attack will be junior Mike Moseman,
who led the team in assists last sea-
son. Moseman will serve as the quar-
terback on offense, which will start
from behind the goal. Also returning
is sophomore Wierni Douoguih, who
exploded for eight goals in the last
four games last season.

The Generals will again face one
of the toughest schedules in Division
III. The schedule, which includes the
always tough ODAC, features clashes

John Morris

...defending NCAA
singles and
doubles champion

keep its stranglehold on the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference. W&L
has won five straight ODAC tennis
titles, but the league keeps getting
better and gunning for W&L. It is
the price you pay for past success,
but Franke wouldn't have it any other
way.

“We've had some good workouts
this spring, so we're in pretty good
shape for this point in the season,"
he said. “Our goal is to be in the
top 12 in the nation and get the bid

to the tournament again. We hope to
defend our ODAC crown again, too.
All of that is going to be tougher to
do this year, but we look forward to
the challenge."

with Ithaca, Franklin and Marshall
and Washington College.

In his first season, Stagnitta will
take nothing for granted. His key is
to take things one at a time and look
for improvement with each outing.
“I’d like us to be better every game,
and I'd like them to have fun, too.
I'd like us to beat the teams we're
supposed to beat and then sneak up
on a few other teams. We can be
tough to prepare for in just two days.
People don't know what to expect,
and,I think that gives us the oppor-
tunity to surprise some people."

On Wednesday, the Generals,
ranked 20th in the pre—season Div-
ision III poll, kicked off the Stagnitta
era against Division I power Virginia,
ranked 5th in the Division I poll, in
Scott Stadium.

Throughout the first ﬁve minutes,
Virginia had the ball in the W&L
defensive zone, but managed to come
away with nothing. Costello stood up
to ﬁve shots from the Cavaliers be-
fore W&L managed to get control of
the ball.

The Generals couldn't muster an
attack, and with 8:57 to play, fresh-
mam Kevin Pehlke started his scoring
barrage. He scored four of the first
ﬁve UVa. goals as the Cavaliers
jumped out to a 6-0 lead midway
through the second quarter.

The Generals then got on the
board off their extra-man offense.
Moseman had the ball behind the
goal and hit Mastrogiovanni as he cut
to the net. Mastrogiovanni beat UVa.
goalie Tom Groeninger for the first
W&L goal of the season. The goal
made the score 6-1 with 4:50 to play
in the half.

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The indoor track season at
Washington and Lee is not a long
one. It is also overshadowed by
the lengthier outdoor season,
which tends to look upon its
shorter counterpart as a training
period.

 Ellis  ...however. junior .
Carl Gilbert is attracting some
‘attention to the men’s _indoor
track team. At the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Indoor Cham-
pionships held last week in
Lynchburg, Gilbert was named the
ODAC Indoor Track Performer-
of-the—Year. At that meet, Gil-
bert placed second in the long
and triple jumps, won the 440-
yard dash and was a member of
the ﬁrst-place mile relay team.

During the VMI Winter Re-
lays, Gilbert qualiﬁed for the
Division IH national indoor cham-
pionships in the triple jump with
a distance of 46 feet, 11 inches.
Gilbert, who finished third in the
triple jump, was the only Division
III athlete to place in any event at
that meet. Gilbert also placed
first in the triple jump at the
Lynchburg Invitational with a leap
of 44-11.

For his acheivements, Gilbert
has been named The Ring-tum
Phi's Athlete-of-the-Month for
February.

’ Gilbert will travel to Smith
College in Northampton, Mass.
for the national championships on
March 9-10.

I |ATHLETE-OF-THE-MONTH

Wight gave W&L hope as they
went in the locker room as he was
the recipient of a Moseman feed on
the crease. Wight’s goal with 33
seconds to play made it a 9-2 game
at the half and put some positive
light on an otherwise dismal first
half.

Costello, after holding UVa. to
just two goals in the ﬁrst quarter, had
a rough second period as was pulled
after the ninth Virginia goal. Costello
did make 12 ﬁrst half saves.

Junior Julian Gillespie replaced
Costello in the goal and held UVa. to
just two third quarter goals. Soph-
omore Jeff Roberts managed the
Generals only tally of the period as
he beat his man around the goal and
scored his ﬁrst career goal to make
the score 11-3 at the end of the third
quarter.

Pehlke opened the fourth quarter
with his fifth goal of the day to go
along with two assists, and Gabby
Roe added his second goal to make
it 14-3 with 6:12 to play.

W&L did not quit, though. Rob-
erts worked a nice two-man game
with Mastrogiovanni, and Mastro-
giovanni worked free on the crease
for his second goal of the day with
2:11 left. The tandem hooked up
again on the fast break forty seconds
later, and Mastrogiovamii took
another feed from Roberts to score
his third goal of the afternoon.

Mastrogiovanni’s hat trick closed
the scoring in the 14-5 defeat. Gil-
Iespie made nine saves in the second
half as he held UVa. to just ﬁve
goals in thirty-plus minutes of work.

The Generals will begin ODAC
play Tuesday when they travel to
Randolph-Macon _ I

“Having qualiﬁed that early in
the indoor season gives me confi-
dence in my jumping," Gilbert
said. “I hope to come out okay.”

Head men’s track coach Nor-
ris Aldridge said Gilbert has a
chance to place high at the cham-
pionships.

“The triple jumper from
Lynchburg is ranked second in
the nation and Carl has beaten
"liirri'," Aldiidge said.

The multi-purpose performer
also excels during the outdoor
season. Last spring he qualified
for the outdoor national champi-
onships in the triple jump. His
qualifying jump of 47-10 set a

school record.

Gilbert was also all-ODAC in
the 400-meter individual and relay
events during the outdoor season
last year.

For the upcoming outdoor
season Gilbert said he hopes to
qualify for the national champion-
ships in 400-meter and mile re-
lays.

An accounting major who
hails from Bassett, Virginia, Gil-
bert also plays slotback for the
Generals’ football team.

When he is not ﬂying through
the air, running around a track or
running into defensive secondaries
on a football ﬁeld, Gilbert said he
likes to relax with music and
shoot hoops.

Congratulations to Carl Gil-
bert, The Ring-tum Phi's Athlete-
of-the-Month for February.

Wanted: sportswriters. Call 463-8581 or 464-4631.

,   int r on N01‘, TH   
, is [N ciiiss.

If you're looking for excitement and adven-

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

  

:.,‘

 

t titre, you'll find it when you enroll in Army
ROTC. It's not your ordinary college elective.

‘ nxmwa

. 

1 gm!!!

. ARMY ROTC

v THE SMARTEST COLLEGE

' COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

‘p ‘ Register Today! Contact: Cpt. Ramos 463-8485

  

122 S. Main St.
51

I The Style House

Celebrates

Fancy Dress
Have A Ball!

Operators: Irma, Anne,

   
 

I‘.-‘

     

Maxine, Mary
463-5954

    
      
 

F3

 
 

Looking for
a new home?
Ask a friend.

NAF ® and "trademark of Ct-ntury 21 Real Est L
Equal Housing Opportutiitmﬁ

 

©1989 Century 21 Real Estate Corporation as trustee for the
ate 
t-:/icit OFI-‘lcl: is tuneri-:NnI:Nrt.r OWNED AND wnum

CENTURY 21‘ professionals
nationwide help more peo-
ple find the perfect home
than any other real estate
sales organization. When
you're ready to buy a home:
call a member of the team
that leads.

Centuryz

FOGO REAL ESTATE

Lexington
463-1801

1

  

 

Put your trust
in Number One.

IAIII IHI
AFFAIR
TO NEW
IIEIGHIS.

Helium balloons
for all occasions.

POSTMARKS
8: PLEASURES
117 west Nelson Steel/Lexingon

0e...,e~i*:.¢lt2rM

 

CLASSIFIED

For Sale
Old Town Canoe, 15 ft. solo,
dark green, wood trim, excellent
condition, $450. Call 463-2557
after 5 p.m.

Bike for sale - Bridgestone 450
series, suntour components,
Scott Ditt. handlepars, two years
old, $200. Call 463-3106 and
ask for Sam Moore.

Hel Wante

Come to New Hampshire for
the summer!

Outstanding Brother/Sister sports
camps on 22 mile lake near "On
Golden Pond" site seeks staff.
Interviews available at the Uni-
versity Center on Tuesday,
March 13. All transportation
paid.

Winaukee (Boys) 914-698-1833
Robindel (Girls) 215-884-3326

/I

CRUISE LINE OPENINGS
HIRING NOWII

Year round and summer jobs
available $300 - $600 per week.
Stewards, Social Directors, Tour
Guides, Gift Shop Cashiers, etc.
Both skilled and unskilled
people needed. Call (719) 687-
6662

  l

 

SPORTS

Macon ends Generals’ year 75-64

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

For twenty minutes, it looked as
if the 1989-90 Washington and Lee
basketball season would not end in
the semiﬁnal round of the Old Dom-
inion Athletic Conference tournament.

The Generals, seeded fifth, were
facing top-seeded Randolph-Macon
for the third time this season last
Thursday night in the Salem Civic
Center. From the outset, things look-
ed as if they would go W&L's way.

At a luncheon before the games,
R—MC coach Hal Nunnally announced
that his top players would not be at
100 percent. 6-9 center Pat Holland
was recovering from mononucleosis,
which cost him 20 pounds off his
240-pound frame. Point guard Ken
Potosnak was slowed by the ﬂu, and
6-6 forward Jeff Skop had a deep
thigh bruise.

Nunnally was right to some ex-
tend. Neither Potosnak nor Skop
would be a factor. The two combined
for just nine points, and the ﬁfth
starter, John Lawn, added just one.

Still, Randolph—Macon, ranked
17th in Division III, would not go
away. But W&L looked as if they
would take it from the Yellow Jack-
(:15.

When sophomore Mark Melton
converted a three-point play, the
Generals had their biggest lead of the
first half, 17-11 with 12:53 to play.

Randolph-Macon took the lead 22-
21 when Potosnak hit a three pointer
for his only points, but W&L re-
gained the lead seconds later when
Holton buried his second three
pointer of the half.

The teams traded baskets until
freshman Bryan Watkins connected
on a three point shot with 2:59 to
play to give W&L a 35-32 lead. But
that would be W&L’s last basket of
the half, as R-MC scored the last

 

Craig Hatfield

...ODAC’s leading rebounder

four points of the half to lead 36-35
at intermission. ‘

In the first half, Kagey was going
crazy, scoring 10 points in the first
stanza. W&L shot 56 percent to stay
in the contest, led by Holton’s 10
points. R-MC had the lead mainly
because they had connected on 65
percent of their shots.

In the second half, the Generals
tightened up according to head coach
Verne Canﬁeld, and that's when
things turned sour. “We missed
some easy stickbacks, and when that
happened, I could sense in our kids
that they were pressing and trying to
do too much. That’s really where the
game got away.”

After junior center Chris Jacobs
scored to bring the Generals to a 40-
39 deﬁcit at the 18:05 mark, R-MC
held W&L without a ﬁeld goal for

the next 10:21. When Jacobs scored,
he ended an 18-5 Yellow Jackets’
run. Reserves Jeff Taylor and Troy
Smith, spelling Potosnak and Holland,
combined for 12 points during the
run. The run propelled the Yellow
Jackets to a 75-64 win and a place in
the ﬁnals opposite Emory and Henry.

Jacobs was the lone bright spot

The Ring-tum Phl, March 1, 1990

for the Generals in the second half,
scoring 11 of his 17 points. Holton
finished with 15. W&L shot 28 per-
cent in the second half compared to
Randolph-Macon’s 71 percent.

The Generals earned their place in
the semifinals by virtue of their 77-
63 win at Hampden-Sydney in the
quarterfinals.

W&L came from behind in the
second half to take the lead and then
break open the game for the fourteen
point win. Hampden-Sydney led 49-
44 with 13 minutes to go, but the
Generals went on a 10-0 run to take
the lead for good at 54-49 on junior
forward Ed Hart's follow up and two
baskets from Jacobs.

Russell Tumer completed a three-
point play to make it 54-52, but that
would be as close as Hampden-Syd-
ney would get as the Generals went
on a 11-2 run sparked by six points
from junior forward Craig Hatﬁeld to
extend the lead to 65-54.

The Generals led for much of the
first half, sparked by 10 points from
Hart and eight from junior Pat Gal-
lavan. Jacobs gave W&L its biggest
lead at 32-26 with 2:50 to play in the
half before Hampden-Sydney went on
a 10-0 run. Jacobs’ basket with four
seconds left cut the lead to two at the
break, 36-34.

The Tigers led 49-44 with 13:20
to play, but junior guard Jim Casey’s
basket off penetration started the
Generals on their first decisive run.
H-SC got only as close as six, 65-
59, on a Turner basket with 1:57 to
play. W&L iced the win with a Jac-
obs dunk with 1:25 to play and rolled
out of Hampden-Sydney with a 14-
point upset win of the fourth seed.

Jacobs paced ﬁve W&L players in
double ﬁgures with 20 points. Hart
finished with 14 points and eight
rebounds off the bench. Hatﬁeld
scored 12 points, all in the second
half.

The Generals ﬁnished the season

15-12. Jacobs was a second team all-
ODAC performer as well as a first
team all-South Atlantic region per-
former. Holton was the leading vote
getter on the South Atlantic region’s
all—academic team. Hatﬁeld ﬁnished
the season as the ODAC’s leading
rebounder at 7.8 a contest.

BOX SCORES

Washington and Lee (77)

Holton 2-5 0-4 5, Casey 3-6 4-5 11, Jacobs 8-
13 4-5 20, Hatfield 4-7 4-5 12, Gallavan 4-7 0-2
10, Alrutzl-10-0 2, Melton 0-01-21. Manson 0-
0 00 0, Witherington 1-3 0-0 2, Han 6-11 2-214,
Watkins 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 29-55 15-22 77.
Hampden-Sydney (63)

Barber 2-4 0-0 5, Camohan 1-5 0-0 2, Turner
12-19 6-10 30, Pomeroy 1-4 2-2 4, Mulquin 6-15
0-0 13, Musilli 2-4 2-2 7, Burcher 1-2 0-0 2, Clark
0-0 0-1 0. Totals 25-53 10-15 63.

Halftime-36-34, H-SC. Three point goals-W&L (4-
9) Gallavan 2, Holton 1, Casey 1; I-I-SC (3-9)
Mulquin 1, Barber 1, Muzilli 1. Total fouls-W&L
16, H-SC 21. Fouled out-Tumer, Mulquin. Tech-
nical foul-Tumer. Rebounds-W&L 30 (Hart 8) H-
SC 30 (T umer 10). Assists-W&L 16 (Holton 4), H-
SC 15 (Barber 8). A-950.

Washington and Lee (64)

Casey 2-6 2-2 7, Holtm 5-9 3-4 15, Jacobs 8-
21 1-2 17, Gallavan 2-9 0-0 6, Hatﬁeld 2-6 04) 4,
Alrutz 0-0 0-0 0, Hart 2-5 0-0 4, Manson 1-1 0-
0 2, Melton 1-3 1-1 3, Penn 0-0 0-0 0, Withering-
ton 0-0 0-0 0, Watkins 2-2 0-0 6. Totals 25-62 7-
9 64.
Randolph-Macon (75)

Potosnak 1-4 0-0 3, Lawn 0-1 1-2 1. Holland
5-5 2-2 12. Skop 3-6 0-1 6, Kagey 9-11 4-6 22.
Taylor 5-8 3-4 13, Smith 8-11 0-1 16, Gregory 1-
1 0-0 2, Davis 0-0 0-0 0, Westm-ﬁeld 0-0 0-0 0,
Piuato 0-0 0-0 0, Hicks 0-0 0-0 0, Maillet 0-0 0-
0 0. Totals 32-47 10-16 75.

Halftime-36-35, R-MC. Three point. goals-W&L (7-
15) Gallavan 2, Holton 2, Watkins 2, Casey I; R-
MC (1-2) Potosnak 1. Total fouls-W&L 17, R-MC
8. Rebounds-W&L 32 (Jacobs 12), R-MC 26
(Kagey 8). Assists-W&L 18 (Holton, Casey 4), R-
MC 18 (Potosnak 7). A-887.

Swimmers set to dive into nationals

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

On first glance, the season record
of the Washington and Lee women’s
swim team appears outstanding.

The Generals captured the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship title for the third straight
year, placed third out of seven in the
Atlantic States competition, broke a
number of records, and produced an
athlete who qualified for the NCAA
championships and won ODAC
Swimmer-of-the-Year, freshman Claire
Dudley.

To the coach and swimmers,
however, the team’s final results
point to a few areas which require
even more improvement and which
provide the motivation for new goals.
Head coach Page Remillard, who was
awarded ODAC Co-Coach-of-the-
Year, noted the underlying factors
which have lessened the team's satis-
faction with itsi performance.

Although she didn’t get it, Remil-
lard thought that one of his swim-
mers should have been awarded At-
lantic States Swimmer of the Year.

“[Freshman] Stephanie Sauers is
the only girl to win three ODAC
events and three Atlantics’ events,”
said Remillard. “She really beat the
outswam the girl who got the
award.”

Perhaps the most frustrating aspect
about ti.‘ ODAC/Atlantics meet was
what Remillard considers to be his
mistaken approach toward training
junior Sharon Coleman.

Coleman, who was ‘an NCAA
Division III All-American last year,
did not qualify for Nationals this
season. This year, Coleman won two
of her three events but missed cut-
off time for Nationals.

“I believed Sharon was strong
enough to win and qualify for Na-
tionals, so I chose not to completely
prepare her for the ODACS,” Remil-
lard said.“It was a strategy which I
thought was appropriate, but in retro-

 mmmmmmmmmmmm

Kris Am oroso

...leadership will be missed

spect I can see that the training pro-
gram was my mistake. It would have
been correct for a faster pool. I’m
just thankful that Sharon is a junior
so she has another chance.”
Remillard is very aware of this
season's positive aspects, though, and
has put everything in perspective.
“In most aquatics programs, this
would be considered a very good
year — we just expect a little more.

That will be our motivation. I’d like
this to be our worst season,” he said.
“It's ironic to find ourselves in the
situation of complaining, but we have
to look at the reasons why we're not
even better."

With the success the team had this
season and the emergence of frosh
Dudley and Sauers, Remillard still
will miss those who graduate. In
particular, senior Kris Amoroso will
be sorely missed next year.

“Her great characteristics have
contributed so much to our three
ODAC titles. She has been a joy to
work with for four years. In fact,
they’re all a terriﬁc group of athletes
who are totally committed,” Reniil-
lard said. “I just want them to
achieve what they want next year."

CATHOLIC

CAMPUS
MINISTRY

Daily Masses:
Tues., Wed., Thurs., Fri.
at 12:15 p.m.

Weekend Mass Schedule
Saturday 5:00 p.m.
with a dinner & video following.

Sunday 8:00 a.m. & 10:30 a.m.
“Rend your hearts and retum to the Lord
your God ” - Joel 2:13

 

 

 Ylffllr

The ONLYinternationally recognized student I D‘
low student air fares‘

Accident/medical insurance‘

24-hour international tolllree hotline for
medical, legal and financial emeigenciesl
Countless discounts on travel, cultural events,
accommodations and much more!

Now In a new plastic, wallet sized and waterproof lorniar

any i‘ 

  

0 0000

 

See Mrs. Roller at

The W&L Bookstore

 

Chip Nordhoff

...qualifies for nationals

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

Although the Washington and Lee
men's third-place ﬁnish at the Atlan-
tic States Championships this ‘past
weekend concluded the tearn’s swim-
ming season, four swimmers will
move on to compete in the Division
III national championships.

“I don't like being third at Atlan-
tic States," head coach Page Remil-
lard said. “Next year won't be soon
enough [to return to the top spot]."

The Generals had been the two-
time defending champions of the
Atlantic States.

At last weekend's meet, which
was held at Hollins College, UNC-
Charlotte placed first, Mary Washing-
ton second and Radford fourth.

W&L swam to first-place victories
in eight out of 18 events, but with
only eight swimmers the team lacked
the depth needed to win the meet.

“A championship meet scores 12
places and lack of size will kill
you," said Remillard.

Sophomore Chip Nordhoff quali-

 

‘Split Skirts

°Summer Sandles, Belts &

Celebrating 25 Years Of
Service To Girls Of All Ages.’

°Misty Lane & Andrew Harvey Dresses
°Aston & Robert Scott Sweatersl Knit Tops
°Sportswear by David Brooks

-Coordinated Knit Sets by Bubbles & Miket

°Skyrs in an abundance of colors (oversized included)

126 S. Main St.
463-5434

ﬁed for the national championships in
the 200-yard freestyle (1:43.12) and
the 200-yard backstroke (1258.78).
Nordhoff’s time in the 200-yard free-
style is the third best among Division
III times recorded this season while
his time in the 200-yard backstroke
ranks fourth.

Nordhoff will also compete on
W&L's 800-yard relay team at na-
tionals. The rest of the team is com-
posed of junior Jim Dunleavy and
sophomores Doug Brown and Jay
Smith.

Smith improved his unbeaten
streak to 30 after winning all six of
his individual races during the week-
end. Smith also lowered his national
qualifying times in the 50-yard free-
style (21.46) and the 100-yard back-
stroke (54.42). Smith, who will also
swim in the 100-yard freestyle at
nationals, set his qualifying times
earlier in the season.

“This is not the time for the
streak to end,” Rerrtillard said, refer-
ring to nationals. “I think Jay's
capable of winning it [a national
title]. I know he'll be fast, it’s just
a matter of how fast the opposition
will be.”

Brown missed the national quali-
fying standard by two seconds in two
events. He ﬁnished the 1,650-yard
freestyle with a time of 16:38.54 and
the 500-yard freestyle in 4:45.81.

“It was a great swim from a
coaching standpoint," Remillard said
of Brown's effort in the 1,650-yard
freestyle. “But I felt for him as a
friend."

Overall, Remillard said he was
very happy with the team's perform-
ance this season, noting that the small
squad finished with an 8-5 record.

“We're a young team. I expected
a building year and now we've got
an excellent base. Next year we
anticipate ﬁlling some of the empty
spots and then we'll be right back in
the hunt," Remillard said.

Accessories

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

EEIII2A1..|IlIABC.l:I.2
Registration for Spring Term ends.

i
DUPONT GALLERY: "New Works by Barbara Duva|' (through March 23).
Gallery hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Admission is free”

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: "When the Wall Came I

Tumbling Down," objects taken from the Berlin Wall by W&L senior Tie a
Sosnowski (through March).

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: ‘The Heyday of the ,
Literary Society at W&L‘ (March 5 - June 1). Hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Monday through Friday. Ir
COMMERCE SCHOOL, MAIN LOBBY AND READING ROOM: '
"Paintings by Kathleen Olson." ,

R.E. Lee Memorial Church

0 V

Sunday Services J

8:30 - Holy Eucharist - Rite I 3
9:20 — Church School ’

10:30 — Holy Eucharist - Rite II 1

5:00 - Holy Eucharist - Rite II
6:00 - Undergraduate Group Bible Study

1 A

Topic: 5!. Paul ’s Teaching on the Role of Women in the Church

3 p.m. MEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Penn State. Varsity Courts. ,
3:30 p.m. MATH COLLOOUIUM: ‘T he Ubiquitous Bloch Space,‘
Sheldon Axler, Michigan State University. Room 6, ’
Robinson Hall. Public invited. »
4 p.m. PRESENTATIONS AND EXHIBIT: “When the Wall Came
Tumbling Down,‘ a talk by W&L senior Tie Sosnowski, who'll
visited the Berlin Wall; Lamar Cecil, professor of history at 9
W&L, will talk about the future of Germany. Northen
Auditorium. University Library. Reception to follow. Public *
invited. (Pieces of the wall will be on exhibit In the Library's,
Main Lobby through March.)
8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Salaam Bombay! (India, 1988). Classroom "A,"
Lewis Hall. Public invited. r
, .
1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Faust (Gounod). WLUR-FM (91.5). 1
8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Salaam Bombay! (India, 1988). Classroom "A,"
Lewis Hall. Public invited.
8 p.m. FAIR CONCERT: University-Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra!
Lee Chapel. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN'S LACROSSE: IFWLA
Tournament, Hollins. \
I
8 p.m. ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: Lionel T
Hampton and His Orchestra. Jackson Memorial Hall, VMI. g
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN'S LACROSSE: IFWLA
Tournament. ‘
. 1
2:30 p.m. MATH COLLOQUIUM: "Symplectic and Complex Fo|iations," J
Paul D. Scotield, University of Illinois. Room 2, Robinson 1
Hall. Public invited.
3 p.m. CD&P: Choice of Major Workshop. Room 113, University
Center. I.
4 p.m. CD&P WORKSHOP: "...But I Don't Have a Job Yeti‘ Room \
113, University Center.
8 - 9 p.m. SCOLA FOREIGN LANGUAGE NEWS BROADCAST: W&L 8
Cable 9 TV. ,
For Adelphia Cable Subscribers: Beginning Mon., Mar. 5,
until the end of May, Cable 9 will carry news broadcasts and
variety programming from 8 to 9 p.m., Monday through
Thursday. Mon. (Spanish), Tues. (Japanese, Chinese, or
Russian), Wed. (French), Thurs. (German).
For more information, contact Dick Kuettner, W&L language H
lab, 463-8995.
V
C
5 p.m. BIOLOGY STUDENT SEMINAR: Room 305, Parmly Hall.
Refreshments at 4:30. Public invited. ‘
8 p.m. LECTURE: "Advertising: Capita|ism's Fuel and Democracy's .4 5
Friend," Reginald K. Brack Jr. '59, chairman, president, and
CEO of The Time Inc. Magazine Company. Room 327, ’
Commerce School. Public invited. 5
wrsougsggx, MARCH 1 *
7 p.m. GALLERY RECEPTION AND LECTURE: New Works by .
Barbara Duval. duPont Gallery. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: MEN'S LACROSSE: *
Randolph-Macon; MEN'S TENNIS: Hampden-Sydney. V
, o
3 p.m. BASEBALL: Generals vs. Holy Cross. Smith Field. ,
5 p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Teri L. Snider '91 and G. Kathleen
Duwel '91. Room 401, Howe Hall.Refreshments at 4:30 int
Room 402. Public invited. .
EBlI2A1._|llIABS2l:L2 1
Fancy Dress Weekend; Law School Spring Holiday begins. ,
2 p.m. CD&P LECTURE: "Getting Your Foot in the Door of
Advertising and Public Relations,‘ Tom Herndon '89, I
Doe-Anderson Advertising. Room 114, University Center. ,,l
3 p.m. BASEBALL: Generals vs. West Virginia Tech. Smith Field.
9 p.m. FANCY DRESS BALL: Warner Center. V
i
1 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: 50th Anniversary Celebration. 81
WLUR-FM (91.5).
1 p.m. BASEBALL: Generals vs. West Virginia Tech. Smith Field.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: MEN'S LACROSSE: Franklin & 1‘
Marshall. ,
6066606606 '
EXHIBITIONS '

GiftBasI<etsUi4Iimii;eb 

Beginning & Advanced Cake Decorating ‘

   

Classes Begin March 19

Call to Reserve A Spot
(703) 463-6696

 

A Suppleme-n’r To The Ring-Tum Phi ¥

 

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

 

Finally, the long-await-
ed announcement of this
year's Fancy Dress theme:
“Gatsby’s Great Gala.”
The idea behind the
theme is to re-enact one
of the famed parties
given by millionaire Jay
Gatsby in 1925, as
portrayed in F. Scott Fitz-
gerald’s classic novel The
Great Gatsby. Included
in this supplement is an
array of glimpses into the
events that await each
and every one of you
next weekend: the his-
tory, the decorations, the
bands, the traditions.
Take some time in read-
ing this supplement to
catch the pulse of the
T9203, the glimmer of Jay
Gatsby so you can better
enjoy Fancy Dress week-
end.

— Pamela Kelley
Entertainment Editor

Fancy Dress team
is right on target

As always, Washington and Lee stays at the forefront of
trends in the country. We went co-educational before it
was all the rage, and now the Fancy Dress Committee has
picked a theme popular culture is turning back toward. In
the March issue of European Travel & Life, the following
paragraph was printed...three months aﬂer the theme had
been selected by the committee.

Victoriana and postmodernism
aren't for cvcrybody. We’ve detected
a certain nostalgia for the roaring twen-
tics, when women were emancipated,
the ﬂapper was born, jazz took hold,
and Deco dawned. it was the day of
the speakeasy, The Great Gatsby. and
the Charleston, and here it comes a-
gain.

Congratulations ta the FD Steering Committee for keeping
tabs on what's hot!

By Pamela Kelley
Entertainment Editor

The year is 1925, part of the
“Roaring 20s,” “The Jazz Age,”
a “New Era”of prosperity cele-
brating the ending of a world war
and a time of social change. It is
the year of The Great Gatsby.

During the 1920s, the Vic-
torian values of the past were
being eclipsed. The violence,
pessimism, and disillusion created
by World War I steered Amer-
ican society away from tradition
and toward experimentation.
Progressivism was on the rise
and the United States was rapidly
becoming a world super power.
The rise of cities and urbaniza-
tion created the mood for a mass
culture and anonymity. The in-
vention of automobiles and planes
allowed people a greater mobility
they had never enjoyed before.
Prohibition was in effect, thanks
to the 18th Amendment (1919)

and an illegal industry was rising.

to fill the voids it created. Along
with the spirit of a new sexual
freedom that the 19th Amend-
ment to the Constitution (1920)
granted women with the right to
vote, these helped set the stage
for the emergence of the liberated
woman, the ﬂapper, and her beau
the sheik.

These feelings induced a
reckless or decadent sort of be-
havior among society, with an

appetite for debauchery and ex-

travagance. The sheer materialism
and joy of irresponsibility of this
time is portrayed well in F. Scott
Fitzgerald's novel The Great
Gatsby, which tells the story of
several prominent members of
New York’s high society. Be-
cause of Fitzgerald’s defmess in
depicting the attitudes of his
time, sometimes the general time
period is referred to as the Fitz-
gerald Era.

New York, Paris, and Hol-
lywood were considered the three

 

The Twenties!

Times of decadence, sophistication

 

major style centers of the world.
There one was sure to see the
distinguishing aspects of the 20s.

Artistically, a style of decora-
tion and architecture called art
deco was popular in the 20s. Art
deco, a term coined in Paris, was
characterized by strearn-lined,
geometric forms and attempted to
combine elegance and fine crafts-
manship with industrial technol-
ogy. It was used for the design
of luxury liners and elaborate
buildings. One famous example is
the interior of Radio City Music
Hall. Art deco furnishings oozed
sensuality and grace with their
use of precious and exotic mater-
ials like ebony, ivory, lacquer,
and stepped layerings.

The 1920s is called the “Jazz
Age” because of the growing

__popularity of jazz and swing

music. Jazz is said to take its
origins from afro-american song,
coming initially from cities like
New Orleans and Chicago in the
form of ragtime and the blues.
The jazzy styles were charac-
terized by the sounds of brass,
reed, and rhythm sections. The
incorporation of these created a
popularity for big bands and such
great musicians such as Duke
Ellington, Louis Armstrong, and
Scott Joplin.

Along with the growing af-
finity for upbeat music came the
enjoyment of dancing to it in the
fortn of dances like the Charles-
ton, which involves simultaneous
feet twisting and rapid forward
and backward kicking motions.
The Charleston became one sym-
bol of the flapper‘s rebellious
abandon. *

WW1 and the 19th Amend-
ment had shown women indepen-
dence, work, experience in the
business world, and suffrage,
while the men were away from
home ﬁghting. they didn't want
to relinquish those when the
ﬁghting was over.

The flappets’ appearances told
a lot about the attitudes behind
them. A typical ﬂapper had bob-

;:3:-I.‘-.._»».,u,'.g.; I .3 1 ‘T’:  =._,- t‘. .

 

 

Prohibition produced a whole new
vocabulary to describe the results of
drinking too much. One could be-
come blind, blotto, buried, cockeyed,

embalmed, high,

 

The Rlng-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

lit, oiled, ossified,

paralyzed, pickled, pie-eyed, polluted,
soused, squiffy, stewed, stiff, stinko,
woozy, or zozzled, just to name a few.

bed hair and a slender boyish
appearance that almost denied her
femininity and pronounced her

equality to men. To add to this,-
the style employed the use of a‘
brassiere that ﬂattened the bosom, -

rather than enhanced it. Gone
were bulky undergarments. Skirts
became shorter. Legs became
barer. Belts were wom low on

the hips, in order to avoid accen-‘

tuating them. Mannish hats and
long necklaces accessorized the
outfits.

The sheik, or the 205 male,
usually sported full trousers with
a wide cuff, which were called
“Oxford Bags.” As well, for the
fashionable male, a gabardine
sports coat or a brown coat and
waistcoat completed the outfit.
Calf-length raccoon coats were
very popular with college men
also.

The young women and men
also deﬁed convention by drink-
ing and smoking in public. They
might do so at the elaborate
parties, for which the age is
known or in “speakeasies,”
which were bars or saloons where
alcohol was served. These might
front as ice cream parlors or soda
fountains. Prohibition supposedly
galvanized the soft-drink industry,
because the sugary-sweet drinks
could hide the taste and ap-
pearance of alcohol.

Prohibition was also being
thwarted by bootleggers, who
were willing to smuggle or make
alcohol for the many who wished
to drink — for money. Gradually

these small entrepreneurs moved
into larger, more organized gangs.
Using machine guns, armed cars,
mass murders and other such
tactics, leaders like Chicago’s Al
Capone eliminated their competi-
tion, bought police and officials,
and controlled elections, creating
bootlegging empires. This escala—
tion in crime later led legislators
to repeal prohibition with the 21st
Amendment (1933).

The technological achieve-
ments that brought radio and
automobiles to the public also
provided it with another form of
ecscape in the form of motion
pictures. Actors like Lon Chaney,
Charles Chaplin, Douglas Fair-
banks Jr., Rudolph Valentino, and
actresses like Greta Garbo, Gloria
Swanson, Mary Pickford, and
Joan Crawford, became like
household names as fantasy lov-
ers in movies that promoted the
wealth, decadent parties, and
materialism that dominated the
era. Hollywood became the home
of motion pictures. As well, it
came to symbolize the
industrialization, urbanization, and
sexuality, that was changing
modern american society.

Although many society mem-
bers, the rich in particular, en-
joyed the freedom the “Roaring
20s” provided, it would eventual-
ly come to an end (with the
Great Depression in 1929). The
hey-day of the ﬂapper and her
antics would end, almost as sadly
as the tale of elusive dreams and
wealth in F. Scott Fitzgerald's
classic novel.

47

' O))3.)71 ‘ Y

/ .

l 925

Calvin “Silent Ca|” Coolidge

68th Congress of the United States

The House The Senate
Dem Rep Dem Rep
206 223 42 53

Henry Smith was the governing
official at W&L.There were 66
teachers and 782 students.

The population of New York state,
according to the 1920 census,
was 10,385,227.

In Virginia, there were poll taxes and
literacy tests in order to vote.

 

The Radiators ......................... .. p.8

History of Fancy Dress ......... .. p.16
Fancy Dress Memorabilia .... .. p.l7
History of Fancy Dress ......... .. p.18

Fancy Dress Humor .............. .. p.26

 

  

 
 

9 .-

 

.-.—»-...;’1.rr-

 

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

Gatsby mansion to rise again

Decorations to re-create extravagance and gaiety of the Roaring Twenties

an >

Senior Lee Garlowe arranges some of the
scenery at the reproduction of Jay

Gatsby’s lavish mansion for FD.

By Brooke Jarabek
Staff Reporter

The Great Jay Gatsby was
renowned for his lavish,
exorbitant parties of enormous
size. People from all over New
York drove to Gatsby’s
ostentatious house to party into
the wee hours of the morning.

The decorations at this year's
Fancy Dress will reflect Gatsby,
the great host, in a display of
decadence. Students will re-
create the air of careless abandon
and decadence in the Warner
Center through reproductions of
scenes from Jay Gatsby’s house
and grounds.

For one night, students,
faculty, and alumni will be the
honored guests at one of Gatsby's
famous parties.

Gatsby’s guests will first
encounter a vintage burgundy and
black Rolls Royce in front of the
Warner Center walkway. The car
is just one of the many expensive
cars that brought the wealthy
from all parts of New York in
search of frivolity for the night.

Next, the guests will enter the
gym to see the entranceway
decorated under the supervision
of Nancy Mitchell. A latticed
veranda with ﬂowers will be at
the front of the hallway. A
silver repeating sky line will
contrast against the black walls.
Chandeliers and rose lighting will

  

 

ff“

Chairman Alex Hltz and SAB member-at-large Taylor Houck discuss the TF('_]V‘,Ss‘Ol”*7G-
tron of the gymnasium into a replica of Jay Gatsby’s mansion, complete wit%< a

ballroom, garden, and a vintage Rolls—Royce.

 

. with

guide the way to a ﬂoral fountain
at the rear of the hall.

As the guests enter the big
gym, they will be privy to
Gatsby's personal wardrobe on
the left. Tina Vandersteel, the
creator of this scene, said her
comer is based on the scene in
the movie where Gatsby begins
to throw his shirts around in
frivolous display.

Gatsby is impressing Daisy
with all is material wealth as he
shows her around the house for
the first time. Daisy and the
narrator, Nick Carraway, are
admiring the closet, which is
stuffed with shirts of every shade.
Vandersteel says this reﬂects the
decadence of the Twenties.
Gatsby owns all these superfluous
things, and Daisy is totally
captivated by his ostentatious
wealth. She values these objects
over all else.

The scene will be re—created
two huge closet doors
painted dark a dark cherry wood
color. Gatsby’s initials will be
painted on the doors. Five
oversize shirts, six by eight feet,
on hangers will be ﬂoating out of

the closet. And there will be
rose-colored lighting coming from
within the closet as if it were

glowing.

On the right-hand side is
Gatsby’s ballroom. Senior
Meredith Attwell plans to

decorate with a black and white
checked ﬂoor and walls painted a
rich red. A bar with Gatsby’s
initials will be painted black,
silver and red. Lots of white
roses on pedestals, mirrors and
black and silver urns will
surround the bar.

White roses and other white
ﬂowers will be arrayed
throughout the Warner Center to
reﬂect the dozens and dozens of
white roses Gatsby bought for
Daisy.

As the guests walk to the
back of the big gym, they will
exit to the outside of Gatsby’s
mansion. On their right will be
the gardens prepared under senior
Beckwith Archer’s direction. The
garden signifies the first Gatsby
party Nick ever attended. A
white gazebo will be surrounded
by mums, grass and ivy as well
as topiary trees, which are
rounded on the bottom then get
skinnier then bowl out again and
repeat the pattern until they thin
out at the top.

As part of the garden party
scene, red and white streamers
will cover the ceiling above the
swing band like the red and
white tents of Gatsby’s parties.

After walking in the gardens,
the guests can follow the red

carpet leading up the stairs to
Gatsby’s gray dock on West Egg.
They can peer over the railing at
the lights glowing from beneath
the waves and at the green light
on the end of the dock
representing the ﬂashy image of
a new money man. Or they can
stare at the stars of the night sky
just as Gatsby used to when he
stared wistfully across the bay at
East Egg where Daisy lived.
Junior Sumner Timberlake and
senior Alicia Hay are creating the
water with blue and green
cellophane paper and are using
black star paper for the night sky.
The next stop is the balcony,
where a fountain surrounded by
columns represents the area near
Gatsby's pool. Light glowing
from the inside of sheer material
on the columns will give an
ethereal appearance to the scene.
Also under junior Paul Lee's
direction contrasting white and
black images will contribute to
the unreal quality of the

glamorous, frivolous Twenties.
If the couples are looking

for a little more excitement and
want to leave the romantic
atmosphere Gatsby’s grand
mansion and the sounds of the
Peter Duchin orchestra, they can
wander over to the little gym and
The Radiators. The sky line of
New York will run along the
railing of the indoor track.

Cigarette girls will sell
cigarettes, gum, mints, and cigars
and will have matchbooks
specially designed with the Fancy
Dress insignia. Cokes will be
sold in the big gym, little gym
and balcony.

Alex Hitz, the chairman of
the Fancy Dress committee, said
the lighting designed by Gary
Humiston of the W&L theater
will be incredible this year.

"We’re concentrating on big
and bold this year because the
little details get lost in the dark,"
Hitz said.

The decorations are big and
bold to fit with the boldness and
gaiety of the Roaring Twenties.
So be a little bold. You are
cordially invited to a party given
by Mr. Jay Gatsby on March 9,
1925.

 

 

By Todd Peppers
Staff Reporter

In honor of the Fancy Dress
theme, I have been asked to
familiarize Washington and Lee
students with the plot of “The
Great Gatsby.” There is one
small problem: the last time I
read F. Scott Fitzgerald’s classic
was during my junior high days.
Of course it would be much
more impressive if I provided a
detailed analysis of the book; I
could dazzle my readers with a

brilliant interpretation of
Fitzgerald’s unique style and
thematic devices. But I know

that my amateurish efforts at
critical interpretation would risk,
deservedly, the wrath of the
English department. Therefore I
will stay on territory that is
slightly more friendly; I will take
the cowards way out and review
the movie version of “The Great
Gatsby.”

“The Great Gatsby,” which
came out in the 1970’s, is a
extravagant production. The film
assembled some of Hollywood's
most talented actors and
actresses: Robert Redford as Jay
Gatsby, Mia Farrow as Daisy
Buchanan, Bmce Dem as Tom
Buchanan, Karen Allen as Myrtle
Wilson, and Sam Waterson as
Nick Carraway.

Carraway is the narrator of
the story, and he leads us into

GREAT
GAISBY

l’n'zai:nAu>

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress supplement, March 1, 1990

The movie behind the theme

Peppers: movie '3 bright setting belies its dark, tragic ending

the mysterious life of Jay Gatsby.
Carraway does offer his own
thoughts from time to time, but
usually he hovers around the
comers like a judgmental eye and
allows us to form our own
opinions.

Since most of you won't see
the film before Fancy Dress, I
will reveal all the plot twists of
“The Great Gatsby.” The
movie focuses on Jay Gatsby and
his desperate yearning for his one
true love: Daisy Buchanan.
Gatsby fell in love with Daisy
before the first World War.
Unfortunately, shortly into their
romance, he was called away to
defend his country. Gatsby sends
Daisy a letter and asks her to
wait for his return, but Daisy
marries the rich and arrogant
Thomas Buchanan. As she later
explains to Gatsby, she married
Buchanan because “rich girls
don't marry poor boys, Jay
Gatsby.” And the young Gatsby
was very poor.

The movie begins one
summer when Carraway rents a
house in West Egg, which ,is
close to his cousin Daisy. His
small dwelling is next to
Gatsby’s magniﬁcent mansion,
and at night Nick observes
Gatsby’s decadent parties. Nick
comments that in Gatsby’s
enchanted gardens “men and
women went like moths”
attracted to the dizzying wealth.
And of Gatsby he says “he

A 65/16 GREAT
GATSBY

F7S_c0rr-FITZGERALD

giscmnmans ‘_

"-.

The dust jacket for the first edition of F.
Scott Fitzgerald's classic novel The Great
Gatsby when it was released in 1925.

represented everything for which
I have an unaffected scorn.” But
Gatsby “turned out alright in the
en .”

The character of Jay Gatsby is
an enigma. His murky past is
clouded with lies and myths.
Some gossip that he is the cousin
of the Kaiser, others idly remark
that his eyes reveal the soul of a
killer. Nor do people know how
Gatsby came to his unknown
wealth. At his splendid parties
Gatsby stands above the crowd
and silently observes the drunken
fray. Yet one night he invites
Nick to his party, and later calls
his poorer neighbor to his office.
He strikes up an awkward
friendship with Nick and, as they
relationship develops, uses the
young man to reach Daisy.

Nick is friendly with the
Buchanans although they move in
different worlds. Daisy is a
shallow, bored, flighty woman
who has her every whim instantly
satisﬁed. But she still pines for
something more..rHer philosophy
of life is rather simple: “when
my daughter was born, I said I'm
glad its a girl and I hope she's a
little fool...that’s the best thing a
girl can be in this world."
Daisy herself is a “little fool”
who smothers any last vestiges of
human emotion with the heavy
blanket of greed.

The story juxtaposed two
illicit affairs that involve the
Buchanans. Tom has a fling
with Myrtle Wilson (Karen
Black). Myrtle is the wife of a
poor gas station attendant named
George Wilson. The dense
woman is overpowered by Tom's
brute strength and wealth.
George Wilson is perhaps one of
the few sympathetic characters in
the film. He lives in a desolate
area between East and West Egg.
Nick labels this area “a fantastic
farm where ashes grow like
wheat." The only thing of value
to George Wilson is slowly being
taken by a man who has
everything. It is in this valley of
dust that Fitzgerald presents one
of his dominant themes: a old
billboard advertisement that
displays only a pair of piercing
eyes. To Wilson, these eyes
represent the all-seeing gaze of
God. The question we must

consider: does Wilson's God only
watch over this valley of death,
or is the deity also judging the
rich?

The sordid affair between
Tom and Myrtle is in stark
contrast to the gauzy and dreamy
bond between Gatsby and Daisy.
In Gatsby's mind, Daisy is the
goal he desperately fought to
reach; even his vast wealth is
merely another path to her. At

 

night he stands on his veranda
and watches the green lamp at
the end of Daisy’s dock. For
Gatsby, the green shaft of light
represents the culmination of a
dream.

Nick warns his friend that
“you can't repeat the past."
Gatsby replies “of course you
can." Gatsby is mesmerized by
an intoxicating memory that
blinds him to Daisy’s flawed
character. In one of ﬁlm’s most
powerful scenes, Gatsby and
Daisy dance in a darkened room
around a single candle; he
wearing his military uniform and
she finally allows him to whisper
his words of adoration. But both
love affairs, one sordid and one
fantasy, will end in tragedy.

On the way back from New
York, Gatsby's bright yellow
Rolls Royce accidentally strikes
and kills Myrtle Wilson. She
thought it was Tom Buchanan's
car, and she rushed out in front
of the car hoping Tom would
stop and rescue her from the
enraged George Wilson. The car
doesn't stop and leaves the
broken body lying in the road.
But it wasn't Gatsby that struck
the fleeing women, Daisy was
driving the car. When the
grieving Wilson comes to the
Buchanan house, Tom Buchanan,
knowing of Daisy’s love affair
with Gatsby, tells Wilson who is
the real owner of the car. Wilson
goes to Gatsby's mansion, shoots
the millionaire, and then kills
himself. Ironically, the “great"
Gatsby, the man who had thrown
parties for hundreds and whose

F. Scott Fiizigeraid

name was mentioned as royalty,
has two people attend his burial:
his grieving father and Nick
Carraway.

A few months later Nick
bumps into Daisy and Tom.
Daisy hasn’t even contacted Nick
since the funeral and breezily
informs him that her house
remodeling has taken up too
much time. As Nick watches the
couple and their parade of servant
leave the hotel, he says that
“they're careless people...they
smash things up and then retreat
into their money."

Where is the message? In the
ﬁnal scene the camera slowly
drifts through the dark rooms of
Gatsby’s empty house. Finally
the lens lingers on Gatsby's
yellow convertible, dried blood
splashed across its headlights, as
a scratchy record plays “When
You and I Were Seventeen"--the
same song Gatsby played when
pining for Daisy. All this vast
wealth didn’t give him his dream.

The movie “The Great
Gatsby” is a griping tale of
wealth and immorality; as a
Fancy Dress theme its dark
message might be lost. Enjoy
the lavish decorations as you
walk into the Warner Center.

Yet recognize that F. Scott
Fitzgerald doesn't glorify the
decadence of “the Roaring

Twenties,” he decries its
selﬁshness and immorality. I
don't want to place a dark cloud
over Fancy Dress, I think "The
Great Gatsby” will be an unique
theme, but don't forget the seamy
side of the novel.

  

   

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990 6

Wilson expects a ‘memorable’ FD

WASI-IINGTONANDLEE
UNIVERSITY

Lexington. Virginia 24450

Ofﬁcc of the President February 27’ 

A Fancy Dress message from the President

Fancy Dress Weekend is the surest sign of the coming of spring to
Washington and Lee. All of us look forward to it for that reason and for
the infectious good fun it unfailingly brings to the University community.
This has been so for 83 years and I know it will be so in 1990 as well.

Many people have worked hard and fruitfully to fit all the pieces
of this gigantic undertaking together. The rest of us enjoy the benefit of
that selﬂess service and I write to express our gratitude. I know it will be
yet another memorable Fancy Dress celebration and we deeply thank all
who have labored on our behalf for making it so.

   

 

lilo inlihw
John D. Wilson
President
yo.e.o..oa  
F MAN . .

E9-e,§?°L'VAR HUFF NATlC=NVl'lDE
203 South Main Street   U R AN C E
Lexington‘ VA 24450 9 NallOnWIdO -s on your 5-69

Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051 §

§ The Official Fancy Dress Photographer ' 3

Located on the balcony behind Peter Duchtn

You will receive: 3

 Two 5 x 7 PORTRAITS IN FOLDERS §

‘g plus: g

FOUR WALLET SIZE PORTRAITS
available on H N I COLOR‘ §
CD's and Cassettes I EVER” I G N ' §
Wt ‘ ALL FOR ONLY $8.00
Open noon until 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday : including tax 2
L 11 S. Randolph St.. Lexington 464-4050 ‘¢"0"‘9"0"0*" ‘4""”"‘ "6 "4 "‘0"a"o'4 ‘ 6 ‘ 6

ﬁe,    Kelly’s Corner

Excellent Selection of Fresh Flowers

, A 0,", 5P“;,| e Gourmet Fruit Baskets ’ On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington
0 Fast, Courteous Service  4 5 2 1 ' 5'00" 3- HQWOTIBO "5""
. sum. day ddivﬂy e Plant rental! maintenance

e We wire flowers anywhere ' H'“'"" b'u°°"‘   Your

Fancy Dress Party Needs
We DO Corsages Imported Domestic

Fancy Dress BonuS_  _0O  At Excellent Prices

As Always, We Provide The
any corsage
Exp. 3/15/90

Best Service For The W&L Community
463-4321 (Nights&Holidays) 223 Sguth Main e Lexington

Open 7 days Miles & Sandy Nye,Proprietors

 

 

More than 20 questions for FD

The Fling-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

Chairman Alex Hitz about the ball

 

By Stacy Morrison
Editor

Q: Why do you think this
theme translates well for Fancy
Dress?

A: Because what we're really
trying to concentrate on with this
year’s theme is Gatsby’s really
fantastic parties. And think that
Fancy Dress is the most fantastic
party in college.

Q: What’s your favorite part
about this year’s Fancy Dress
Ball?

A: That's a hard question. I
like all of it. I love that we're
having a car. I love the poster. I
love the invitations. I think the
cup is fantastic. I love our
bands. I'm really excited about
the whole thing. The Great Gat-
sby is one of my favorite books.
I'm lucky that theme got elected;
it got 53 percent of the vote.

Q: Explain the car.

A: We've got a vintage Rolls
Royce that’s going to be a part
of the decorations out in front
and its going to be equipped with
a driver as if to suggest that
someone had just been dropped
off at the party. It's black and
burgundy and it's just amazing.
It's being driven down here on a
truck from Washington that night
and taken back the same night.
It'll be out front.

Q: Is there anything that’s
especially different or remark-
able. about Fancy Dress this
year?

A: There have been a lot more
restraints put on us this year.
We have monetary restraints and
we don't have any charge‘ ac-
counts this year, which makes it
very, very difficult to run Fancy
Dress. Other than that I think in
terms of decorations we're doing
a lot more with live plants this
year, and I think for the first
time in a long time we've got

reaily good people to work on it A

who really, really care. I know
they did last year, too. But in
past years its just been the kind

of people who want to get a free -_
ticket, but everyone is really .

psyched up about it this year.

Q: How else did the ﬁnancial
regulations affect spending?

A: It was losing the charge
accounts mainly, and the fact" that
we don't have a checkbook any-
more, because checks are only
cut on Tuesday and Friday. So
it's very difficult for spur-of-the-

moment things like lumber —
we're going through that right
now [with construction beginning
this week] — paint and paint-
brushes and stuff like that, things
we cannot wait until Friday for.
It's very, very hard. It's making
it very hard to put up the decora-
tions on time, and I certainly
hope they [the EC] will consider
next year not doing the same
thing. I think the way they
could do it is to have separate
Fancy Dress accounts, separate
charge accounts. That way,
instead of just SAB, it would be
Fancy Dress charge accounts.

Q: How do the accounts and
committees overlap?

A: The Fancy Dress Committee
is a sub—committee of the SAB,
but the money is all separate.
we don't get any student funds
except for what they pay.

Q: Does Fancy Dress pay for
itself‘?

'A: Yes, from the ticket and

memorabilia sales.

Q: How many people usually
attend?

A: Usually about 2,000. We're
estimating, just to be safe this
year, we're counting on 1,300,
but I think it'll be considerably
more_than that.

Q: Do you think the law
school’s being on vacation is
going to hurt the attendance?
A: I really don't think so. I
think a lot of people were upset
about it at the law school at first,
but we tried to find a better time.
The reason that,is was such a
.problem this year is because
February break was moved back
a week, and Fancy Dress is
usually two weeks after February
break, and when they moved
February break back, too. I've
gotten mixed reviews from the
law school. I wrote them a letter
that said how sorry I was that we
,weren’t going to be having Fancy
Dress when they were in session.
But it is also the night that they
get out. I can't speak for them
because I'm not a law student,
but I would be really excited that
I didn’t have to go to class the
next Monday. I'm sorry the
scheduling has been so much of
a problem.

Q: What’s been the most dif-
ficult duty in being Fancy Dress
Chairman? I ‘

A: None of it'is easy. I think
the most difficult thing probably
has been coordinating ‘everything’

to get here on’ time -— all the
ordering all the posters all the
memorabilia. Having these
people work on such tight
schedules, it’s really hard. It's a
lot of organization.

Q: What’s been your favorite
thing?

A: My favorite thing has been
working with all people. Like I
said, we've got a fantastic group
and they're really excited about
it, they've got great ideas and so
ma.ny of them just want to do the
best job possible.

Q: How did this theme get
selected?

A: It was elected. There was a
vote on themes. SAB members-
at-large present ideas and we
choose the top eight, then we
have another ballot. This theme
got 53 percent of the vote, and I
didn't even vote. Neithcr Will
[Joncs, Fancy Dress Vicc—Chair—
man] nor I voted.

Q: What other themes were in
consideration?

A: Enchantment Under the Sea,
Disneyland, Monte Carlo, Las
Vegas, Masquerade Ball, A
Winter Palace, Rodeo, Graceland

and Willie Wonka and the
Chocolate Factory. I think they
all would have been great

themes.

Q: What do you think of Fan-
cy Dress as a costume ball?

A: I think it's a great idea, I
really do. And I think this year,
because of the 20s theme, that
people really can really do a lot
with costumes, if they want to.
"Costume rental now is so expen-
sive, plus it's hard tolget it all
coordinated so that the costumes
will be here on time. It's too
bad that there's not a really,
really 7 good costume shop in
Lexington that could supply Fan-
cy Dress. I think if they did that
then Fancy Dress could be a
costume ball again. I love that
tradition and I'm sorry that it's
faded out.

Q: Why is the theme kept
secret?
A: Well, the theme is kept
secret- because if it's announced
only a week before the ball
people seem to be so much more
excited about it. I mean, people
are excited about Fancy Dress
anyway, but the fact that the
theme» is kept secret gives extra
anticipation and that kind of
thing. Once it's announced that
-‘week :then- everyone gets really

excited about it.
gets really leaked out, which it
has in some years, it's just not as
exciting for everybody.

Q: We’re you worried about
people’s thinking that no money
was going to be spent on this
year’s ball?

A: Yes, I was worried about
that, because every year it's been
such an issue on how much has
been spent, and every year it's
been humongous ﬁgures. If
people thought that we were not
spending that much then maybe
they would think they were not
getting that much of a ball, and
I don't think that’s true.

Q: Is that -why you requested

to have your most recent EC,

budget hearing closed?

A:,Yes. I didn’t want people to
presuppose the quality of the ball
by how much money was being
spent because I think we've done

amazing things with what we've,

got this year.

Q: What are you most looking
forward to this Fancy Dress
weekend?

A: It being over.

Q: How was the Charlie
Daniels Band selected to play
Thursday night?

A: Bands this time ofyear are.

really :a- problem, because they're

If the themei

either recording or they're on
tour or they're on break and
don't want to come. So, we
went through several possibilities
and finally we found Charlie
Daniels, which is a big name,
which we always look for, at a
pretty good price. Enough people
wanted to hear him so we
thought it would be a good thing.
It was a vote on the SAB board.

Q: How do you feel about
some of the negative reactions
that people are having toward
their playing?

"A: Well, you can please some

of the people some of the time,
but you can't please all of the
people all of the time. I mean, I
understand. We’re trying to
diversify everything as much as
possible. I don't mean to sound
flip, but you can‘ do anything and
someone is always going to have
a gripe with it. We've got a
really diverse Friday night.
We've got Peter Duchin and also
the Radiators and The Waxing
Poetics, so it's not all going to
be Charlie Daniels all weekend.
People criticized B.B. King last
year, too, and I thought it was

Q: Any final words, anything
you want to say to everybody?
A: I just hope everybody has a
good time. That's what it's all
about. I hope the teachers will
let up on me - I've got three
papels due next week.

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

 

 

‘Rods’ will bring New Orleans fo FD

 

From News Releases

Editor’s Note.‘ The Radiators
are the main attraction rock band
for Fancy Dress. They are play-
ing in Doremus Gymnasium on
Friday night after Waxing Poetics.

The truly great American rock
bands are beyond styles and
trends. Legendary New Orleans
rockers The Radiators fall square-
ly into that category. The band’s
music, an amalgam of inﬂuences
from ‘60s soul to modal jazz,
twin-guitar harmonies and the
undulating rhythms of New Or-
leans rhythm and blues, is a
mysterious brew that has seduced
and captivated audiences across
the United States for the last
decade,

The Rad's wildly eclectic,
marathon-length live performances
have earned the group a hardcore
cult following everywhere they've
played, from Tulane University
animal house frat balls in New
Orleans to frenzied, hanging-
from-the—rafters all—nighters at
New York’s Lone Star Cafe.

Throughout most of their
career, The Radiators have re-
mained out of the music industry
mainstream, releasing privately-
made albums and concentrating
on keeping their live gigs a fresh,
continually evolving process.

Ed Volker, the band’s key-
boardist, vocalist and principal
songwriter, kept spinning his
dreams out into songs-—over 2,000
of them at last count--while
vocalist/guitarist Dave Malone
and guitarist/vocalist Camille
Baudoin developed the most
dynamic two-guitar sound since
the Allman Brothers.

Zig—zaggin' Through Ghost-
land the band’s second album for
Epic Records, finally unleashes
the secret power of this outfit on
the general public. After doc-
umenting the lively vibrations the
band has dubbed “Fish Head
Music” on Epic’s landmark 1987
album Law of the Fish, the band
has now made an LP that com-
bines the drive of its live perfor-
mances with deep-rooted commer-
cial instincts.

Volker and Baudoin, friends

Poetics To open
on Fridoty nighi

 

From Press Releases

Editor's Note: Waxing P0-
etics are scheduled to play Friday
night at the ball in Doremus
Gymnasium. They will open for
The Radiators and will begin to
play at 9 p.m.

Waxing Poetics were formed
five years ago in Norfolk, Vir-
ginia. A four—piece band consist-
ing of David Middleton (vocals,
guitar), Paul Tiers (guitars, vo-
cals), Sean Henncssy (bass), and
Bil Shcarin (dmrns), the band's
initial goal was to play their own
songs in an area whose musical
heritage seemingly had ended

with Gene Vincent’s migration to
the West Coast and Gary “U.S.”
Bond’s~ departure from Norfolk’s
Church Street scene.

After their first gig in early
‘84, Poetics purchased a Rand-
McNally Road Guide and began
to perform almost non-stop re-
gionally. They released a single
in May of ‘85, (“Retum” b/w
“Hermitage") on their own label,
and began to save up funds for a
full-length LP.‘

Their first album, Ilermitage,
was recorded in six days at
Mitch Eastcr’s drive-in studio in
Winston-Salem with Mitch, Mike
Mills (who had sccnand played
onstage with the Poetics after an

1st Floor Reid Hail

1'4-'”"—”’PHlNi|NG CEN]§ﬁ

since kindergarten, joined forces
with Frank Bua in the early ‘70s.
Calling themselves the Dogs, they
moved to California and joined a
commune in the Santa Cruz
Mountains with 25 other trans-
planted New Orleanians. The
three returned to New Orleans,
where they worked as the house
band at Big Daddy's on Bourbon
Street, playing background music‘
to strippers. The band evolved
into a group called the Rhap-
sodizers before officially becom-
ing The Radiators on Jan. 28,
1978, during a rehearsal in Ed
Volker’s garage on Waldo Drive.
Malone brought an energetic
vocal presence and tremendous
blues and rhythm and blues guitar
technique to a solid rhythm sec-
tion anchored by blues veteran
Reggie Scanlan on bass. The
band was topped off by percus-
sionist Glenn Sears, who started
plying with The Rads in 1981.
The Radiators have learned
the secrets of New Orleans music
playing behind some of the mu-
sic’s greatest practitioners, from
Professor Longhair to Earl King.

“The important thing we
learned playing behind people
like ‘Fess and Earl King is a
sense of joy,” said Volker. “Earl
is a very loose guy when he
performs, wlrere ‘Fess would

really work your butt off. He was
a spiritual chief. .There’s a
certain Mardi Gras vibe to our
music or a sense of drama in
what we got from ‘Fess. When
we play, we try to transmit that.”

 

R.E.M. show in December of
‘85), and the band producing.

In September of ‘86, the
Poetics signed with the newly-
formcd Emerge label which
released Hermitage in January of
‘87.' With college radio support
and positive press the band ex-
panded their touring base and
began to put together songs for

;he second album.

In January of this year, Po»-
etics recorded their new album,
Manakin Moon, at TGS Studios
in Chapel Hill with produccr/en--

gineer Steve Grortback (Rain
P1r:.de,__ Don Dixon, Parthenon
Huxley).-

Lyricist and lead vocalist
David Middleton offered up this

I . :".\-"T 4 \:-" 

, -
l  RlS'i‘

 

Area   ‘A

explanation for the LP’s title:
“Manakin is a town in the center
of Virginia. I don't know what‘
it looks like because I've never
been there, but l’ve passed it
time and time again on road trips
with the band. “Manakin
Moon" comes from a line in a .
song. lt’:: about feeling unwel-

‘cernc in a small town.”

 

Come to your Printing center for: - i

- FLYERS & POSTERS ~ custom RESUIJES 8. letters
- copying a. printing - Transparencies

- Programs - Brochures at Booklets

- Newsletters - Scanning

gpm cm 9%/-a/6'/«eaa'o/w L l
9'0»
8 gang green» a/zdéjoey Qqy

'4 i - <\I}-.715
The Printing Center has added a Macintosh ilx, Scanner, and Laser- 165 S th M - S f \ , R
writer it to its service. The Macintosh will read Ms-DOS disks. We can "' ‘ _ °“v.  t‘ -) " I 1'3"‘
add scanned Images to add to your posters or iiyers. stop by and pick .5 L°"m9‘°“' "gum 24450 5; “‘ A 
up a pamphlet about this equipment‘: capabilities. K ,1 (703) 433-9152  N ._  3 '5
,_  I — - . V -~._:::‘.\},.:_' . r‘ '2’!

     

.;L_

\

\ ' .
0!‘ , _‘ ‘Q ‘ 
_--51:9.’ _ \ \ WV '

 
 

 

 

From News Releases

Editor's Note: The Peter
Duchin Orchestra will be playing
Friday night at the ball in the
Warner Center. They will play
from 9 p.m. to II p.m.

America — especially young
America —— is dancing again the
way it used to. Just ask the man
who's probably its most popular
bandleader - Peter Duchin. When
he played for a large dance at his
daughter’s school not long ago,
Duchin glanced across the room-
ful of swirling couples and ob-
served “ a very, very big change
that had taken place in the last
ten years.”

“We played everything from
old ballads to show times, not
just rock-and-roll," he recalls,
“and yet the floor. was absolutely
crowded the entire evening. Kids
are dancing to music that is more
old-fashioned and more sophisti-
cated than they used to. And I
think they're enjoying it more.”

If anyone should know, it’s
this super-busy musician—entrepre-
neur. For 25 years he has pre-
sided over an array of sparkling
events from his celebrated post at
the piano keyboard- a unique
vantage point on the shifting
tastes of society at play.

Especially high society. Duch-
in’s name has become an intema—
tional symbol of social gloss. It
stands for the Tiffany of orches-
tras, the one most in demand by
the upper crust because its pres-
ence- more than any other- tells
you an affair is top-drawer.

In person, Duchin seems
perfectly made for this heady
world- a dark, smoothly good-
looking man who gives the im-
pression he was bom to wear
black tie and move with conﬁ-
dent grace across the roomful of
jet—setters. But he is also friendly,
direct, and entirely unaffected by
his elite status. When I met him
in his hotel room and brought
him down to the coffee shop for
a chat, he was quick to clarify
his classy image. ‘ '

 

   

  

  

11:30 AM-10 PM V

 

HUNAN

 
 

The Fling-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

W&L to welcome Duchin Orchestra

“Society parties are actually a
small part of the 120 jobs a year
I personally play,” he pointed
out, citing college proms, charity
balls, concerts, and dances open
to the public. “It’s a huge cross
section, but of course people
think of me in terms of society
bandleader, because of the tre-
mendous demand for his groups,
which play about 1,000 dates a
year. The “Peter Duchin Orches-
tras,” without Duchin at the
helm, are hot items. But
it's‘ ‘Peter Duchin and his Orches-
tra” that is the real prize. He’s
booked solid for the next four
years, has made over 20 music
albums, and personally turns
down some 800 requests a year.

The places that do get him
include the White House, political
conventions, and the Waldorf-
Astoria, where he's the music
director.

“The fellows in my band can
play anything from today’s Top
40 to that of 40 years ago. They
really have a huge vocabulary.”

In Duchin’s case such eminent
skills are no accident. His broad
background is an American fable
of musical heritage and gilded
youth — with several tragic turns.
His mother was a prominent
socialite, Marjorie Oelrichs. In
the early ‘30s, Eddie Duchin —
who was virtually Piano to mil-
lions of Americans — was play-
ing New York’s Central Park
Casino, a society hangout of the
time. One day Marjorie ap-
proached Eddie at the keyboard,
beginning a publicized romance
that resulted in marriage.

But Marjorie died not long
after Peter’s birth, and the baby,
who was ill himself, was nursed
to health by the famous Holly-
wood writer Anita Loos, a friend
of his mother‘s. During World
War II, Peter lived with his god-
parents, the Averell Harrimans,
on their splendid estate in Arden,

'N.Y. And at 13, Peter learned

that his famous pianist father,

then a World War II naxal offi-

cer, had died. .
Harriman had strong views of

  

CHINESE

RESTAURANT

Authentic Chinese Cuisine
Luncheon Specialr 0 Extensive Dinner Menu
a Beer 0 Wit : 0 Exotic Cocktails

Catering Available

‘ 7 C I ‘C -011 M
SundctyBuffetl1:30 A.M.-3:00 P.M. °"‘‘’ °'‘’ “mt ' °"

463-3330

E. Nelson Street hexington
{Behind McDonald's)

7"
'l
I

RDE

how the rich should live.
“Averell felt, as did Mrs. Harri-
man, that all kids should have
two or three languages, should be
able to play polo and croquet,
and know how to train dogs. But
they should also know how to
muck out stalls, and know right
from wrong. AWe were given all
these things to do daily.”

From the beginning, Duchin
says, “I felt I would be in some
aspect of music, although I didn't
know which. At Yale I majored
in music, and when I went to
Paris I studied serious music and
thought I was going to become a
serious composer.”

But at Yale he also played in
a modem-jazz group — “probably
because I wanted to stand out in
some way,” he says, with traces
of his tony background resonating
pleasantly in his voice. “I had
long hair and wore a cape.”

He may not have become a

classical conductor, but once he’s » .

off the dance floor Duchin’s love

   

    
   
     
     

of serious music and the arts
takes over. The man of 2,000
tunes owns not a single popular
record and doesn't even sample
the competition, such as orchestra
leader Lester Lanin.

“At home I listen exclusively
to classical music and jazz,” he
says. And he finds time, some-
how, to throw his hefty inﬂuence
on the side of the arts in Ameri-
ca, serving in many capacities.

Such a life involves constant
travel, of course, and he usually
takes his tennis racket and fly
rod. He also takes his wife, writ-
er Brooke Hayward, and three
children by a previous marriage,
Jason, Courtney and Colin, who
are in high school and college.
With such a myriad of destina-
tions, does he have to tailor his
music to where he’s playing, or
to the kind of event it is?

“An interesting point,” he
says, ‘.‘We do  a IIAIIIB bll,
depending on the area of the
country, or, I suppose, the socio-,

economic group. But it's only a
matter of finesse.”

“I don’t have a real prefer-
ence among cngagements, but
colleges are a lot of fun because
I get to talk to the K105 and see
what’s happening.”

He feels that “my kids are
more concerned about the future
than certainly I was at their age
or than kids were 10 or 15 years
ago. It has to do, perhaps, with
the possibility of imperrnancnce,
of a finite world.

If Duchin’s movie-script of a
life seems a natural for an auto-
biography, don‘t look for it
soon — his life is on full throttle.
A new and thriving business
venture — Duchin Entertainment -
— takes him to an unaccustomed
spot behind, rather than in front
of, an evening's entertainment.

Most people, though, will
continue to think of Duchin as

the charming figure-at the ’kcy- "

board, making the evening an
event of grace and glitter.

  For fast,
  , equality .
film developing

COIIIB

L .

THOMAS C. BRADSHAW II
Photographlst - Frame Shop - Kis Mlnl Lab

7 North Main Street
LEXINGTON‘; VlRGlNlA‘ 24450

 
  

to  

 

 

 

2-1&4»;-4.4.

Dash Rip Rock and roll

From News Releases

Kick off your Fancy Dress
weekend Wednesday night with
Dash Rip Rock in the General
Headquarters.

The Lousiana trio are known
for their high-energy, explosive
on—stage performance and will
keep you dancing all night long,
or until the Dixie beer runs out.

Dash takes their musical

. chops from Carl Perkins, Chuck

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

Berry and Hank Williams, and
their name from a Rock Hudson-
type character on the Flintstones.

Reviewers hail Dash's guitar-
ist/ vocalist/lyricist Bill Davis
with literate lyrics that don't steal
from the hellbent fury of their
rockabilly sound.

In 1987, Dash hit the altema-
tive charts with their debut Dash
Rip Rock. Their album made it to
number 38 on the merits of songs
like “Endeavor," “Pack your
bags" and “DMZ”

Captain Nemo and the Lu-
cld Dreams, having just com-

pleted their
ton to Kingston
reviews, will be
for the

wave-rave
opening

1989-90 Prince-
tour with

Charlie

Daniels Band Thursday night
in the Pavillion. Allen Bradley

of The Arts Syndicate Maga--—--—.
“Captain Nemo
and the Lucid Dreams will
navigate you through the
ﬂnest of wood-chopping Rock
and Roll." Captain Nemo on
“W&L is the south's
We love to perform
for Dixie's best."

zine says.

W&L -
ﬁnest.

._.—-o-—- nmqoun-a-

  

 

“ A quarter of a century of travel experience"

0 AIR TRAVEL 0 AMTRAK 0 CRUISES
0 HOTEL RESERVATIONS 0 CAR RENTALS

CORPORATEILEISURE
All Services Are Free

 

Last year Dash released their
second album Ace of Clubs on
Mammoth records.

“Bad Dreams," from their
first album tells the story when
Blue Oyster Cult takes over Mr.
Rogers Neighborhood.

In addition to their original
tunes, Dash adds a number of
cover tunes with a southern ﬂair
to their live show. Hank Wil-
liams’ “I saw the light” gets
souped up for the live show.

The band also turns out super-

 

charged covers of “Operator,"
“The Ocean" and “Purple
Haze." They have also been
known to an X-rated version of
Cat Stevens’ “Moonshadow."

Dash is made up of Baton
Rouge natives Davis and Ned
“Hoaky" Hickel (bass) who
started the band in 1985 for a
lack of anything else better to do.
They were joined by Fred
LeBlanc (drurns/vocals) after he
saw one of their early live shows.

    
 

DEAVEHS ALLEY
BUSINESS SYICES
Our Typing
is

Word Perfect"

' I:00 A.M. - 5:00 PM.
r and Weekends by Appoint
203 North Main Street
Loxlngton, Virginia 24450
463-9455

Lexington, VA 24450

16 West Washington St.
463-2 1 9 7

Cmrr 6/‘ Jvm

 

w GLOW STARS WR|TlNG INSTRUMENTS GIZMOS

0
&PL

POSTCARDS STATIONERY GREETlNG CARDS T-SHIRTS BALLOONS JOURNALS

0

8/01 >l'lVHO >t'lVNGCllS Sd3J.SOd S.i39ClV

 
   

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-4096
Open daily from 10 AM - 6 PM/Sundays from Noon - 6 PM

 

 

Charlie Daniels rosins up his bow

From News Releases

Editor's Note: The Charlie
Daniels band will kick 017' the
oﬂicial Fancy Dress weekend on
Thursday night at the Student
Activities Pavilion. The concert
begins at 9 p.m., and tickets will
be sold at the door for $15, ad-
vance for $8.

The music rocks. And it
rolls. It comes at you hard, born
by the swoop of a ﬁddle, a scar-
ing lead guitar and a boogie-
diiven rhythm section. It is
music that is stylistically inde-
scribable and yet, at the same
time, is unmistakably, quintessen-
tially American.

It comes from a group that
has spent 17 years on the Amer-

ican road and has sold over 10

million albums. It’s made of lots
of boogie and swing, lots of rock
and roll and a whole lot of
country, with maybe even some
jazz thrown in for good measure.

It’s Charlie Daniel Band mu-
sic.

“It’s us. It’s CDB music,"
the headman says as he shrugs
his hefty shoulders. “The only
difference is that maybe we're
playing better than ever before.
It makes a difference with the
band being five pieces-- it makes
it real lean and mean. Well... I’m
not lean and mean, but they
are,” he adds with a laugh.

Charlie Daniels started his
recording career with an album
deal at Kama Sutra Records in
1971. In 1976, he began record-
ing for Epic records. -

In 1979, the Grammy Award
winning single,“The Devil Went
Down to Georgia,” became a #1
hit country record for the group
and opened the doors for the

The Fllng-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

CDB at country radio. That
airplay helped propel their record
sales beyond the platinum mark
almost instantaneously.

CDB went on to record what
are now considered landmark
albums in country music- Fire on
The Mountain, Saddle Tramp,
and Million Mile Reflections- to
name a few. But as the market-

Cards from the Heart

PA DISE

 
 
  
 
    

place changed, the band became
labeled as a pop-country “cr-
ossover" act.

“You know, back in the
beginning, we were considered a
rock and roll act” says Daniels,
“and we were told that the
coimtry people wouldn't have any
use for us, even though I'd play-
ed country music all my life.

     
        
 
 
 
  
 
   

 

Back then, the country fans were
listening to Mel Tillis and Porter

Wagoner, and we obviously
didn't fit in."

Daniels continues to win over
fans all over the country by
being a straightforward “simple
man" who enjoys “good Songs.
good music and performing
something well."

Archery 0 Guns ~TackIe

Divine 
Gifts ’» Trout Special:
Reels filled on Berkley Line Winder. 2*/yard up to 8 lb.
f0!‘ E 3! test. 3‘/yd. 10#~20# test.
Your a - .
he Hi Truck Sm Turkey Special.
 Lee H; Tmcung gAosspgrg5o5gg Camo 3” Mag. Synthetic Stock 20" .. 
Lee Hi Truck Parts a"'9 - - -
Silver & Gold 1-19;  Huge selection of turkey calls,
Earrings & Rings ‘ "’°k°' guns and accessories.
Crystal Jewelry mm R""""
Perfume Oils -
Massage 0,, Valley Emporium
Romantic Music I-81, Exit 53A Fairfield
stuffed Animals 10 miles North of Lexington next to Exxon
(703)377-6314

Open 9-6:30 Mon.-Sat.

  

 

 

}‘gso9-Ar;-saw-r<b—4-*"*

» The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress supplement, March 1, 1990

     

D/is Beauty Bar

§ 1 G

§ 3 LEXINGTON VIRGINIA
§ .

§

§

ia

159 S. MAIN ST.
463-2886

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT
- 5 OPERATORS -

racowo-uo»<oa«o»<o»co»<a~o-no:«o><o><¢>»o=~¢»«¢~«o-o>~a<o>~o~

§:o=-one-«oz-o-co-o«o»¢~.o>-.0:

Lexington Presbyterian Church

Sunday Morning Worship - 11:00 a.m.

Sunday Evening Bible Study with Dinner:

Fresh 4:00 p.m., dinner 5:00 p.m.
Upperclassmen 5:30 p.m.

All Students Welcome.’

_ , v . - __ ,  v.,,.-v,.rr.~.\..,a,4.
.' . . . . . . . . . V V . .  . . - » --_~ ---*<..' . . - n « - - n - - A ~~ ~~>-
Ol5)lD.Ol9££AAA!o‘AQ5r<s n«¢..;¢- a

By Pamela Kelley
Entertainment Editor

“Dancing leads to a happier
and healthier life," says dance-
master Frank Roupas, who has
offered ballroom dancing lessons
to students for the past few
weeks in order to help them
prepare for Fancy Dress.

Roupas, who has taught stu-
dents to waltz, fox trot, rumba
and jitterbug, has taught dance
for 34 years and has become
quite well-known in parts of
Virginia through his dancing
courses. He teaches at various
church and community functions
and travels to private homes and
some colleges like Roanoke
College and UVa. “I am the only
dance teacher who makes house
calls,” he boasts.

Roupas has been making
house calls since the beginning of
his career, and has been offering
classes at UVa for the past 13
years. Roupas said he got the
idea for ballroom dancing classes
at colleges when a UVa student,
who was interested in his lessons
but was too busy to travel to
Roanoke, had him come to Char-
lottesville. He says he now is in
heavy demand for classes there.

When an interested W&L
student could not come to Roupas
six years ago, he traveled to
Lexington as well. Roupas
thought that the classes would not
fare as well at the then all-male
college. However, “It went over
big!” he says. He's been retum-
ing ever since, although he
couldn’t make it back to teach
last year.

Roupas has a very positive

 

12

 FD’s dance Teacher

attitude about the lessons, and
says that he has never had any
failures at dancing, because he
works with individuals until they
learn. His students must, how-
ever, practice at least ten minutes
a day, so they will not forget
their new skills.

So far Roupas has held clas-
ses twice, on Feb. 12 and 26. For
those students who wish to learn
the basics, or still want more
practice, he will be available
once more before the ball on
Monday at 7, 8, 9 and 10 p.m.,
in the University Center. Those
returning for more lessons should
come at 8 pm. or 9 p.m. Begin-
ners should attend the 7 p.m. or
10 p.m. lessons. The cost is $5
per person due at the door. Per-
sons wishing to stay an extra
hour to practice may do so free.

Frank Roupas with a dance class. Photo by Chris Leipart.

GUN SALE

Weatherby@ °Remington@
Browning‘? 0 Mossberg®
We will not be undersold
by anyone!

FREE

Scope Mount & Bore
Sighting with purchase.

Best prices on Hunting
Equipment & Clothing too!

HUNTQEQS

18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington 463-1800

V v.v y .u -.. v nu .,.- .1 \v U.-.v:.v .2?) -1. 1.-'v..=.u:v.'.'..',:'f.-".‘-V

 

  

Killer

I

Resumés

§
1:
:3
.3
3.
3
‘-3
‘*®

IiI‘S|lL‘Ctl (‘op)in_u - i)C\i\l(lp i’liI\Il\Il|n_i.1 - I-‘AX - l)t‘\I[.'n (IY§I}‘IIIL.\
463- I 7 I 2 0 I25 \\ . \r|wn. i,t'\llIﬂl(ill ‘  -“)3-()9lX

ssnvll 

LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

__23 SOUTH MAIN ST./LEXINGTON, VA 24450 /463-2242

   
   

  

- rapliics

  
   
 

   

,,?,_,‘,,,I ,.,..,,.._..:_,,,....»....—:r-

 

 

J in is 4. -0 <* ‘

 
    

 

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress supplement, March 1, 1990

13

The face behind the FD memorabilia
Junior Schuyler Rideout seeks “W&L spirit” in her FD artwork

By Grattan Brown

Staff Reporter

Shades of green, blue, yellow,
and red have been painted for
you by junior Schuyler Rideout
to depict this year’s Fancy Dress
Ball.

Unlike the posters, cups, and
t—shirts of the past, the
memorabilia featuring the great
Jay Gatsby has been done by a
student. Schuyler’s position as
SAB publicity director has made
her responsible for the
memorabilia design.

She decided to dispense with
the professional graphics once
contracted out tofmns and has
used her skills as a studio art
major to create the memorabilia
design herself. The personal

attention given to this year’s
memorabilia means that one can
find the spirit of Washington and
Lee students in the design.

The project began with the

countless hours spent pouring
over magazines and old movies
created during Gatsby’s
“lifetime,” the roaring twenties.
After spending nearly 40 hours
developing ideas and proposing
them to various committees, she
worked for nearly 15 hours to
finish her acrylic painting. In her
painting, she has tried to escape
the generic, professional designs
of the past and instead to capture
a student’s perspective of this
student event.

The premier social event of
the South, she thinks, should
show the spirit of the place from
which it comes, and she hopes
that in five or ten years, when
one who has attended the ball
looks at the poster, he or she will
remember the time spent in a
gymnasium transformed for just
one night.

Schuyler painted the motifs of
the roaring twenties in bright
colors to catch and delight the
eyes. The jazz music is spread

 

   

Fabrics ‘Wall Coverings °Draperies
Bedspreads °Swags & Benjamin Moore Paints

  

 

ROCKBRIDGE INTERIORS

117 S. Main St.

463-4200
Merrie Gayle Davidson

  

Prescriptions 0 Cosmetics 0Per_ﬁarnes
Charge Accounts 0 Free Delivery

around the sides of the FD cup,
which features the silhouette of
horn and piano players. Added
to those players on the t-shirt is
the dancing Gatsby, symbolic of
the 1920s frivolity.

The poster draws on the book
itself, as Gatsby and the viewer
find themselves inside the
millionaire‘s mansion. Through
the open French doors, one sees
the city lights behind the
Manhattan skyline, which has
been drawn twice, once in black
and again in green to signify East
and West Egg, the two sections

of New York found in the book._

Underneath it one finds the green
streetlight, symbolizing hope,
which Jay Gatsby sees as he
looks off the end of his pier.
Not to be outdone by a book,
Washington and Lee life is
present in the columns of
Gatsby’s main room, and with a
little imagination, one can
perhaps find several more
indispensable aspects of life at

To the left and right are
two of Schuyler’s designs
featured in the FD Play-
bili, which one receives
when purchasing tickets
for the ball. Tickets and
FD memorabilis will be
on sale in room 109 of
the university Center
Monday through Thursday
from 10 a.m.-l2 p.m. and
2-5 p.m., and on Friday
from 10-12 only.

ITIAII SA ﬁll! (SHIN
ﬁll O. ITAIJAII U.I3|Al.'l1B

Gidnj
S-omrurciu
as

a‘ nun: uI—Iuun

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

. Nnﬂamldohonyousloo

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN
MOM
203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Bu: 463-4051

Washington and Lee.

These posters, cups, and t-
shirts, along with your tickets for
the entire weekend, will be on
sale in the University Center
every day next week, 10-12 a.m.
and 2-5 pm.

Be sure to stop by and get

 

tickets early because prices go up
at the door. Then, let your mind
wander a bit next Friday as you
make your way through Gatsby’s
world. The memories which you
can take away will surely come
back to you as often as you look
upon memorabilia so close to the
heart of Washington and Lee.

rum,

 °"c/i

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

10% Off All Merchandise

Fancy Dress Week

Super-X Drugs

At Super-X Your Prescription
Needs Are Our Most Important Business.

College Shopping Square

463-71 28

  

  

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

 

14

From Bal Masque to Gatsby

1907
1908
1909
1910

1911

1912
1913
1914

1915
1916
1917
1918

1919
1920

 

Above.

The Hoodoo Gurus.
At Right,

The Tommy Dorsey

Orchestra

From 1907 to 1915, costumes:  v « -  e.  ‘   1950
were traditionally of the ’ . . ~  1951
American colonial style. 1952
Bal Masque 1953
Fancy Dress 1954
Fancy Dress

Bal Masque 1955
Decorations featured college 1956
and fraternity pennants 1957
Bal Masque 1958
Decorations featured hanging

Japanese parasols 1959
Colonial America

Bal Masque 1960
Bal Masque _. 1961
Decorations featured world ‘i;_
flags and Japanese parasols 1962
Colonial America 1963
Court of Louis XIV 1964
Bal Masque 1965
Europe and Columbia, the 1966
Gem of the Ocean 1967
A Midsummer Night's Dream - 1968
Bookland . 1969
Ball was moved to April

because of an inﬂuenza

epidemic f_ 1970
The Chinese Court of Chu ' 1971
Chin Chow 1972
The Scottish Highlands 1973
Le Bal des Operas 1974
My Lady of the Fan 1975
Romance of the Dance 1976
Bal Beaux Arts 1977
Carnival of Venice 1978
Bookland 1979
1001 Nights 1980
Spanish Fiesta

Robin Hood 1941 King Rex and His Court at 1981
Colonial Ball Mardi Gras 1982
Ball of the Grandees I 1942 A Night at the Monte Carlo

Coronation of Emperor Alex- Casino in 1861 1983
ander Ill 1943 American Spirit

Congress of Vienna 1944 Fancy Dress suspended due

Queen Elizabeth and Earl of to World War II 1984
Essex 1945 Suspended 1985
Italian Renaissance 1946 Suspended 1986
Charleston, S.C., on the Eve 1947 Carnival at Rio 1987
of secession 1948 Hampton Court under Charles 1988
Knights of the Golden Horse II 1989
shoe 1949 George Washington's Birthday

Kentucky Derby Ball in Philadelphia 1990

MUSIC FOR FD'S
GONE BY

 

King Arthur's Court

Carmen

The Works of Shakespeare
The Court of King Louis XVI
King Rex and His Court at
Mardi Gras

An Odyssey Through Empires
The Wizard of Oz

Mozart's “Don Giovanni”
Gilbert and Sullivan at Buck-
ingham Palace

Golden Jubilee (50th Anni-
versary)

The Evolution of Man
Shakespeare in the Court of
King James I

High Society

American Civil War Centennial
Mardi Gras

Mississippi River Boat

Derby Day Ball

Opening Night

High Society

Inauguration Ball

From 1970 until 1973 there
were only concerts

The Allman Brothers

No Fancy Dress

Sha-Na-Na

Billy Preston

Mardi Gras

In the Mood 1941

Hooray for Hollywood!
Passport to Paris

Glories of Egypt

A Taste of the Big Apple
Monopoly: A Stroll Around
the Board

On Broadway

A Diamond Jubilee (75th
Anniversary)

Waiting for Robert E. Lee, An
Evening Along the Mississippi
River

Lost Cities of Gold

The Mink Dynasty

Carnival, A Night in Rio

The Dark Continent
Reconciliation Ball of 1865
An Evening Excursion on the
Orient Express

Gatsby’s Great Gala

At left, Buddy Moran,
conductor of
the Tommy Dorsey

Orchestra.

Below,
The Voltage Brothers

 

Guy Lombardo

 

  

 

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

The mother or FD

The statue of Washington was dec-
orated during one Fancy Dress and
remained so for several days so
everyone could get a look.

 

The costumes shown in This 1960 FD
photo are characteristic of_many
worn throughout The ball’s history.

          

students
decorating Evans Dining Hall for FD,
The Theme was “On Broadway.”

 198 ho shows

 

  

    

 

By Pamela Kelley
Entertainment Editor

In February of 1905 W&L
Librarian Annie Joe White and a
handful of students created Fancy
Dress with 44 extra dollars left
over from theatre production
proceeds. Her intent was to make
the event, a “Bal Masque,” an
annual one. Admission price for
the students was nothing, al-
though the ordered costumes cost
about $2.00. Music was provided
by an orchestra from VMI that
knew all the latest two-steps.
Women of the facultyprovided
refreshments. That was on a
Thursday; the next morning stu-
dents had class.

Her attempt was greeted with
indifference by the students,
however her “Bal Masque“ soon
gained enormous support and
enthusiasm from the entire W&L
community. Each year Fancy
Dress, which was open to the
W&L community, VMI keydets
(which, then, provided about one
fourth of the attendance), and
alumni, grew in popularity and
prestige. By 1919 the extravagant
themes and elaborate decorations
were known throughout the
South. Later, it would be deemed
"the South’s outstanding
collegiate social event," by The
New York Times.

The 1920s, which are being
honored in this year’s theme,
could be considered one of the
“hey-days” for the Fancy Dress
Ball, with thousands of people in
attendance. Many of the high-
lights of that era are still remem-
bered. Elaborate costumes were
ordered from Van Hom‘s, a
company in Philadelphia, and
New York. The ball made its
debut to the nation via Walter
Winchell and the Lucky Strike
Radio Network hookup. The
biggest jazz bands and orchestras
of the day were contracted to
play music for the “ligures”or
dances, like Bennie Goodman,
Duke Ellington, Count Basie, and

Jimmy Dorsey. Hundreds of
young women are said to have
traveled from cities such as New
Orleans, Atlanta, Charleston, and
Baltimore to attend, sometimes
even renting out entire railroad
boxcars. Miss White proudly
continued to attend her enhanced
Bal Masque through the 1930s,
when she was featured in Lzfe
magazine for her accomplish-
ments.

The ball, which was once one
of a series of winter and spring
dances including a Junior Prom,
a Sophomore Cotillion, arid the
long-time favorite Final Ball.
The latter has now eclipsed its
predecessors, which no longer
exist.

Twice, in its 85-year-old
history the tradition of Fancy
Dress has been interrupted, during
the war years in the 19405 and

then it was completely excluded
in 1971 when it was completely
extinguished

However, Fancy Dress could
once again be resurrected to its
former glory. With such themes
as “Mardi Gras," “On Broad-
way,” “The Wizard of Oz,”
“Diamond Jubilee,” and last
year's approximately $100,000
“Evening Excursion on the
Orient Express” the proud
heritage of Fancy Dress has been
restored.

This year’s theme, “Gatsby’s
Great Gala,” promises to visit a
time of lavishness and decadence
that would undoubtedly be in
keeping with the dreams and
ideas of Annie Joe White. Its
opulence promises to return us to
those “Roaring 20s,” the days of
its glory, even if only for a sin-
gle night...

 

Several VMI cadets wait in the stag
line at The 1938 Fancy Dress Ball.
Photo courtesy of Life Magazine.

 

. 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

16

W&L’s Fancy Dress is filled

By Todd Peppers
Staff Reporter

The moment that the student
body has eagerly awaited is upon
us: Washington and Lee's eighty-
third annual Fancy Dress Ball.
What was once labeled by The
New York Times as “the
outstanding collegiate social event
of the south” is only days away.
For freshmen this will be the first
time to experience the biggest
party Washington a.nd Lee offers.
For seniors this year's Fancy
Dress will be steeped in nostagia
as they prepare to leave General
Lee's college. But whether you
are a returning alunmus, a “first-
timer,” or a veteran senior,
Fancy Dress weekend always
proves itself to be a memorable
occasion.

As you have read in the
Fancy Dress Supplement to The
Ring-tum Phi, this year's theme is
“Gatsbv’s Great Gala” This

 

Two early leaders of Fancy
Dress. Colonial costumes
have always been a favorite
for students.

theme is unlike other balls of our
era since it draws on literary
characters. With “The Great
Gatsby" in mind, we thought it
might be interesting to go back
and survey a few of the more
unusual or elaborate Fancy Dress
Balls.

Who was responsible for
creating the Fancy Dress Ball?
An article in the 1929 edition of
The Ring-tum Phi pegs Miss
Annie White, then librarian at
Washington and Lee, as the
founder of Fancy Dress.

“Forty—four dollars ﬁnanced
the first Washington and Lee
Fancy Dress Ball, held February
22, 1905, in the old gymnasium.
An orchestra knowing all the
latest two-steps came over from
VMI to furnish the syncopation.”

here is some confusion over the
first date of Fancy Dress, with
later editions of the Phi labeling
1907 as the start of this hallowed
tradition. Back to the first Fancy
Dress: White had directed a

student play in order to raise
money for a campus organization.

through the night. But the article
adds that “the University gave no
holiday for such useless affairs as
a Fancy Dress Ball. Students
might dance all night at the
biggest ball of the year with the
understanding, however, that they
return to class at 9 a.m. with

  

are two of its participants.

Before the event, White pledged
only a certain amount of money
to the organization. After the
play, she was faced with a
dilemma: they had raised forty-
four dollars above the original
pledge. White decided to use the
extra money to put on a small
dance for the students involved in
the fundraiser.

White sent out invitations to
the Ball with the only stipulation
that those attending had to pay
for their costumes.

In the beginning the school’s
administration was not as tolerant
of Fancy Dress hangovers and
shenanigans. Nor did the
administration entertain the notion
of a dance ninning from
Wednesday night til Sunday

morning. The first dance did last

Fancy DFCSS 

I936

 

Washington and Lee University

Arabian Nights was the 1929 Fancy Dress theme. Pictured

 

lessons prepared.”

Those student critics of the
present administration might take
note that, contrary to their claims,
the “Hill” has softened its stance
toward FD in the last seventy
years.

The first Fancy Dress Ball
wasn’t as elaborate as the modern
balls which feature camels,
elephants, train cars, and
spotlights. Our predecessors had
to rough it. The $44 went for
decorations, not a small sun of
money in those days, and
refreshments were provided by
Washington and Lee faculty
wives. The article notes the
costume of choice for the Fancy
Dress Ball of 1905:

“a favorite costume for that

first Fancy Dress Ball was King
Arthur's arrnor——the students
coming to the dance clad in steel
mail from their helmeted head to
their steeled legs. But once was
enough. It cramped their style.”

For decades the idea of a
costume ball remained part of
Fancy Dress. If you have trouble
renting a tuxedo now, consider
this article on the 1919 Fancy
Dress Ball:

“[Participants]...John A. Witt
as Oberon, King of the Faries
[sic] and Miss Cotton Timberlake
as Titania, Queen of the Faries
were drawn in on a chariot
decorated as a lily. The chariot
which was brilliantly lighted by
tiny electric bulbs was drawn by
four faries assisted by court
attendants. I As the chariot

Zr. ‘VM,...r .5

FORTY-SEVENTH

FANCY DRESS BA LL

reached the woodland glade the
King and Queen mounted the
throne which was encircled by
court attendants and ladies—in-
waiting with the foresters, wood
nymphs, and butterﬂies seated
among the cedar trees.”

The theme of that year's
Fancy Dress was, of course,
based on William Shakespeare's
“Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
And its theme required more than
black tie. Imagine trying to find
a costume if you were a wood

nymph or the mercurial Puck.
Furthermore, student
participation went beyond garbing
oneself in appropriate costume.
The article adds that “a beautiful
and graceful interpretative dance
[was] given by Miss Minolaw
Gray as Midnight Ballet.” After
this performance the King and
Queen led a march around “a
beautifully decorated May Pole.”
The article from 1919
included a complete list of the
students attending Fancy Dress

Ball. Some of the more
interesting costumes included
B.W. Buford as ‘ ‘a Grecian

Boy,” Miss Virginia Sproull of
Anniston, Alabama as the “W &
L Swing," Miss Ada Tyler of
Sweet Briar as “Balloon Girl,”
and J.L. Glover as “Yama
Ya.ma.” Our Washington and
Lee forefathers failed to provide
future generations with a
discription of a “yama yama”—-
we can only wonder...

By 1929 Fancy Dress had
substantially grown in size. W&L
professor Carl Gill was in charge
of planning the 1929 Fancy
Dress, Miss White was away, but
the format remained unchanged.

“Decorations changed
Doremus gymnasium into the
palace of King Shahryar, rule of
ancient Persia. With an Oriental
theme and classic background, the
ball surpassed by far its famous
predecessors in brilliance and
novelty.”

W&L students still had a
penchant for assuming the garb
of historical ﬁgures. Student
T.G. Gibson transformed himself
into King Shahryar, complete
with a grand throne and a
fawning court. Sophia Dunlap

was cast in the role of Sultana
Sheherazade and “was brought
before the ruler on a litter borne
by four Nubain slaves. Dunlap, in
the guise of Sheherazade, dazzled
the King with her famous stories
of Ali Baba and ‘The Shipwreck

of Sinbad’...A group of costumed
dancers interpreted her stories”'

Ironically, one element stays
constant down through the years:
the contraversy that perpetually
swirls around those organizing
and running the ball. In the
January 17, 1936 edition of The
Ring-tum Phi, Glenn Shively,
president of Fancy Dress
Committee, responded angrily to
an earlier student letter which
bemoaned the rising prices of
costumes. Shively wrote that two
costumers offered to furnish
Fancy Dress costumes for the
price of $2.40 per costume.

“The committee felt justified
in charging the additional 60

cents to take care of losses or
damages to the costumes, and
any profit that might be made
was to go to the Fancy Dress

Fun .” Apparently the earlier
letter suggested that the
extravagent profits might be

going elsewhere, and Shively
only wanted to set the record
straight.

Lgeigh Society

 

Perhaps higher prices were in
order since the ball that year was
quite elaborate. The theme
centered on the return of the Earl
of Essex from the sacking of the
Spanish town of Cadiz. When
Essex arrived back to England,
Queen Elizabeth declared a
national Thanksgiving. Fancy
Dress revolved around “a replica
of the reception in the royal
palace...the elaborate costumes
and scenery will be representative
of the Elizabethan period.”

Sadly for the 1936 Fancy
Dress, neither the National
Broadcasting Company nor the
Columbia Broadcasting System
carried the dance. But, luckily
for W&L students, there were the
watchful eyes of chaperons. The
list included Mrs. Francis P.
Gaines, Mrs. R.H. Tucker, Mrs.
F.J. Gilliam, and Mrs. Cy Young-
-an imposing list in the eyes of
those fine young Washington and
Lee gentlemen who wanted to
“blow off a little steam" during
the dance.

By 1950, the founders of

 

 

 

5.)’).-5

Fancy Dress had forgotten the
earlier wamings against heavy
suits of armor and settled on the
theme of King Arthur and the
legendary Round Table. The
decorations in the gymnasium
began to approach their modern
day opulence. Doremus was
“transformed into a remarkable
replica of a medieval
castle...complete with battlements,
turrets, and a working
drawbridge.” And, for the first

’\\

I I982 garzcg 5231254 53:2”

7515 oqrzmvcuazy

time since the earliest dances,
students decorated the gym
instead of hiring a professional
company. The “premiere social
event of the south” drew more
than a thousand people dressed as
peasants, armor bearers, knights
and maidens. The article doesn’t
say whether the students, like
their predecessors, discovered the
suits of armor cumbersome.

In 1956, FD moved away
from the historical themes of past
years and embraced “the
fantastique" with “The Wizard

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

 with 85 years of history

of Oz."
Gone were the magestic
ﬁgures of King Arthur, Lord
Essex, and Titania; Doremus gym
was ﬂm ieri with happy
Munchkins, wicked witches, and
kindly wizards. Fancy Dress
chairmen assumed the roles of
the Scarecrow, the Cowardly
Lion, and the Tin Woodman.
Revelers walked through the
famrhouse of Dorothy, down the
famous yellow brick road, and
into the throneroom of the great
and powerful 02. Les Elgart and
his orchestra provided the music
for the occasion. The article
doesn't mention how many times
the audience endured the song
“Somewhere Over the Rainbow.”
FD has always been a

reﬂection of the changing society
around us. In the early years, the
emphasis was placed on historical
characters and events. In the
l940’s and l950’s the focus was
on more “light-hearted themes”
of the rich and famous. In 1969,
indicating the turbulant events of

the decade, Fancy Dress
underwent one of its most
dramatic changes.

The 1969 ball boasted
“psychedelic music and a
professional light show.” Gone

were the lavish balls and exotic
themes; the Fancy Dress
Committee offered the languid
theme of “An Inauguration
Ball.” Why languid? Well the
inauguration wasn’t in honor of a
former United States president, or
a mythical Egytian tyrant, but
rather for new Washington and
Lee President Robert Huntley.
The Saturday night concert
boasted a separate theme from
the stogy Inauguration: “Love—In
69.” Musical entertainment was
provided by the Kallabash
Corporation and Fever Tree. The
Ring-tum Phi recommended that

“conventional dress" be
abandoned and “appropriate
dress” should be substituted.
Apparently the student body

deemed it m.m....."-.. -»

 

their tuxedos for tie-dye.

But the greatest blow came in
1971 when FD was temporarily
suspended. The chairman of the
Dance Board informed the EC
that there would not be a ball
“because of a greatly reduced
budget and past history of student
disinterest.” A heart-broken
alumnus wrote that “for the old
grad from General Lee’s college
it is the most shattering break
with the past since the Generals
dropped out of big time
football.”

The March 10, 1971 edition
of The Ring-tum Phi asked the

question ‘ ‘Can Fancy Dress
Return? ’ ’ The question was
thankfully ‘ ‘yes,’ ’ but those

canny students heading the Dance

tngtou and Lee 1

. V» ' 7 . 9
V . ». .

V takes yo . .
55‘ it 5;

Board saw a new, improved
Fancy Dress in the future. Was
this to be a “kinder, gentler”
FD?

“The cost is the inhibitive
thing," said the Dance Board
Chairman, “I don't want to
spend more than $2,500 to
$3,000 on the thing.”

He added that “my
philosophy is to bring it (FD)
back, but perhaps on a different
format. I don't want...Glenn
Miller. They won’t attract
enough people.”

His solution: the 1972 Fancy
Dress was a 50’s revival party
with people paying $5.00 to hear
the ShaNaNa. Miss White would
have been horriﬁed. No black
tie? No dance band? No
beautiful decorations in the gym?

But Fancy Dress would rise
again. By the mid 1970's FD had
returned to its roots as the finest
party in the South.

Fancy Dress 1976 offered the
theme “A Salute to Hollywood.”
In perhaps a slightly mocking
tone, the Phi noted that the
festival was kicked off Thursday
night in the “simply yet elegantly
decorated Zollman’s Pavilion."
There are many ways to describe
Zollman’s Pavilion, but quiet

ICN Y

Unlike earlier years, the main
dance was held in Fairfax
Lounge, Evans Dining Hall, and
the Cockpit (since renamed t he
General Headquarters with the
advent of cooeducation).

The entrance to Fairfax
Lounge bore a “ﬂashing
Hollywood—type theater marquee,
open wide to admit the first
lucky couple.”

One student hoped that “all
gentlemen attending will display
the proper attire of black tie.” If
not, the burly and altogether
unpleasant doorman may be
tempted to violence."

Evans Dining Hall was filled
with the sounds of the Fabulous
Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra, while
Room 144 was decorated as an
old theater and offered newsreels,
cartoons, and “with luck, dim
lights.” Even the Executive
Committee got into the act: “the
fabled EC room, scene of many
memorable scenes, will unstuff
itself long enough to permit
continuous showing of ...‘That’s
Entertainment.‘ ’ ’

VENICE

World-renown hyptomist
Edwin L Baron, director of the
Hypnotist Institute of Chicago,
was present to hypnotize
voluntary subjects into “gobbling
imaginary watermelon."

Finally, to thoroughly test the
mettle of W&L students, a party
was sponsored by the Freshman
class during Saturday afternoon.
The party might have given birth
to the headline that graced the

1976 Fancy Dress edition of the

Ring-tum Phi--“Fancy Dress
Weekend arrives; University
braces for hangover." One
might pen a more poetic

headline, but none more realistic.

This ends our brief foray into
FD’s past. With the theme
“Gatsby’s Great Gala,” we will
stay faithful to the lavish
decorations and beautiful music
that would have made Miss
White proud. Enjoy the eighty-
third annual Fancy Dress Ball.
And remember that when you
leave Doremus gym on Friday
night, ‘Gatsby’s Great Gala”
become part of Fancy Dress yore.

C ONS IAN‘! INOPLE ISTANIIUL

AH Ex/mime EXCUIQSIOH ow ’
THE oeirm Exam

BOHEAT

 

Vt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVER

82No ANNUAL FANCY

Special thanks to the Special Collections dept. of the

Universiiv I ihrarv and the \I\I9.I u-..._ rm-

 

 

By Tom Tagle
Freshman

As Fancy Dress approaches, 1
try to recall every little bit of
information that I have heard
about this weekend extravaganza.
The varied references to FD must
be sorted out before I can even
begin to evaluate what my
feelings are about the event.

The first time I ever heard
about FD was during a tour one

year ago. The tour guide was
explaining the basic party
structure at W&L: big parties

every Wednesday, Friday and
Saturday, with the ever occasional
party on Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, or Thursday. She
concluded by mentioning that she
had one of the best times of her
life during Fancy Dress weekend,
which sounded to me like a party
not to be missed. I, of course,
considered her overwhelming
praise of the event to be a sales
pitch to get me to come to
W&L, so I didn't give it another
thought.
That idea changed, however,
when I read in one of those
“choose your college” books.
The books said that Fancy Dress
is one of the biggest
extravaganzas on the east coast -
a party not to be missed.
Needless to say, I decided to
attend W&L, not because of
Fancy Dress, well, at least not
only because of Fancy Dress.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

Looking forward, looking back
Freshman

Even during Fraternity Rush,
Fancy Dress was a topic brought
up by many houses. The stories

I heard described Fancy Dress as’

the weekend, the party of the
academic year. Fancy Dress talk

finally subsided as there were_

other parties and other events to
apply one’s full attention to.

At the beginning of winter
term, however, the stories were
revived. I had already found that
talking to upperclassmen helped
me in most other areas of college
life, so I decided to find out
what FD is all about from the
supposed veterans. Some were
more of a help than others while
most were no help at all.

One upperclassman’s
contribution was, "It's great, it's
the best, I can’t explain it to you,
it has to be experienced".
Wonderful, what a great help.

A sophomore who tried to
offer his sage advice preached
that Fancy Dress was the greatest
time‘ of his life. Another
sophomoric ‘ ‘prophet’ ’ concluded
that Fancy Dress was the worst

time of his life. Great. What do
I do now? Luckily, an “all—
Icnowing” senior helped me out,
“It depends upon the girl you
take.” Ahhh! This made sense,
obviously the amount of fun you
have is directly proportional to
the quality of your date. I thus
concluded that in order to have a
great time at FD I should have
the perfect date. No problem.
Well maybe, but I'll work that

Sophomore

By Erica Ingersoll
Sophomore

It was a year ago next week.
I was a freshmen and I didn’t
have a Fancy Dress date. For
days, I watched and listened as
the girls on my hall ran around
trying on dresses, giggling about
dates and thinking aloud about
how wonderful the weekend was
going to be. Meanwhile, I sat on
my bed in my room, cooped up,
nothing to join in with, looking
aheadlto a weekend of being left
out.

After a while, it got quiet and
I started to think. Wait a minute,
I thought. I want to have a good
time. And I'm going to.

So I took off from the fresh-
men dorms for the pavilion.

Most people were already at the
pavilion so no one was around as
I walked in the dark, past the
gym, across the bridge and down
the law school steps. I got all
the way to a road block between
the ‘law school parking lot and
the road leading up to the pavil-
ion before I bumped into anyone.

When I got up to the road
blocks, two junior guys were
working security, moving the
barricades when cars needed to
get through. I knew a little
about one of the guys and he
knew my name.

From his point of view, that
was all we knew about each
other. Little did he know, like a
lot.of women at W&L, I knew
he was and still is a really amaz-
ing guy. Handsome and smart,
good-natured and down-to-earth,

55;-=’;'_ ,. _~ mi‘, ;- ..

out later.

As I continued to investigate
this too-good—to—be—true weekend,
I discovered the “man behind the
curtain," or rather the mighty
dollars role in this unbelievable
event. I believe I recall one
upperc1assman’s comments to be
something to this effect, “FD,
what a great time! I've never
had less money after any event in
my life.” Wait. No money?
How can this be? I had visions
of the W&L man walking on the
Colonnade in his khaki pants and
blue oxford button down before
FD and walking around in rags
following the weekend's
festivities. “Sure people go into
debt, but hey, FD is worth it,"
was my answer. Okay, I can
deal with being a debtor, as long
as everyone else at school is too.

'lhe next strange-but-true
fact about FD that I uncovered
was that W&L gentlemen do not
ask women to FD, they give out
“bids.” I couldn't help but
laugh at this because I thought it
was ludicrous. This isn't Rush,
this is FD. You're notjpicking a
pledge, your selecting it date. I
asked myself, “what — do these
guys do, have ball-sessions over
women?” The answer, as I
myself discovered, is yes. I
found myself checking out
possibilities with friends and
friends asking me what I thought
about so and so. In our own
way, we were conducting private
ball sessions, and any woman

By John Flippen
Sophomore

Fancy Dress... Ever since the
first day I set foot on this
campus at the start of my
freshman year, the legend of the
“great social event of the
collegiate South" was told to me
through the stories of numerous
upperclassmen. They all said one
thing: “You’ll never forget it.”
They were right, and now every
time I look at the scar on my
right wrist, I'll remember my
freshman year FD.

It all started when I asked my
date, a mutual friend of a pledge
brother and myself. She agreed

to go, and the whole weekend we ,
had a fabulous time, though I felt -
. ._. -.as_ if she really wanted-to be with

who could survive surely
deserved more than an invitation,
give that woman a bid!

Another misconception
concerning Fancy Dress is that it
is a weekend affair. Not so.
Often times FD week commences
with a Sunday night party to
welcome the arrival of yet
another Fancy Dress. I also
discovered that those unfortunate
gentlemen among us who have
not yet given out a ‘bid’ (or have
not had one accepted) can stop
into The Pit and find a damsel in
distress, or rather a babe without
a bid the Wednesday before FD
officially begins.

One last bit of information

that I discovered is that the
secretive FD theme is kept secret
because Fancy Dress is more
surprising and enjoyable when
one experiences the unexpected.
Most upperclassmen say it is
better not to know, besides, the
S.A.B. people only love to tease
you with the information that
they have and you don't.

Well, I tried to find out
what FD was all about, but I
really wound up with more
questions than answers. Maybe
that one, unhelpful upperclassmen
was right. Maybe the freshmen,
who obviously know nothing, just
have to experience Fancy Dress.
This is one kriowledgeless
freshman who is willing and able
to have the best time of his life
during Fancy Dress.

my pledge brother. Nonetheless,
we went to my house's pre-ball
party the night of the ball, and
proceeded to drink the free-
ﬂowing champagne. With what
I thought was the “perfect
buzz,” we walked to the
gymnasium. It seemed a shame
to even call it a gym, as the
decorations from the cities the
Orient Express visits enveloped
the whole building, transforming
the place into something much
too classy to warrant saying
“F.D. is in our gym." '

lmrnediately, I took my datei

to see the railroad crossing gates
that stood at the entrance to
Doremus gym, which I had
helped create. At FD, you can
always tell who is on the SAB,
because they are the ones going
around pointing to the most
random things and saying, “I

...*t. :.-i.-.-1.5.‘

By Spain Brumby
Freshman

It is difficult to know what to
anticipate for Fancy Dress
because it is all so secretive.
However, I can already sense the
excitement. Since the Sunday
after Washington Holiday the
girls in my dorm have been
unveiling their dresses and
stressing about dates.

Having both a dress and date,
my biggest concern is
remembering how to ballroom
dance. I learned the box step in
seventh grade, but I
remember much more than that!

This year's FD theme still
remains a mystery to me, but I
am excited to see the gym
decorated. Everyone says I
won't recognize it. Also, it will
be fun to see everyone so dressed
up. I probably won’t recognize
some of my friends either.

Invariably, everyone says FD
is the weekend of the year. I'm
really looking forward to going.
I’m sure it will be wonderful
after all the planning and hard
work that has gone into this one
weekend.

The advice upperclassmen
have given me is, “Get your
work done ahead of time,
because you will be going out
and catching up on sleep from
next Wednesday night to
Sunday."

painted (built, designed) that."
Needless to say, I was very
proud of the gates that took a
fraternity brother and myself,
being the carpenters we were,
three days to make stand on their
own. Luckily, my oh—so-
impressed date did not see the
concrete blocks that we finally

jhad to put on the base of the

gates to keep them from falling
over.

After admiring them for a few
minutes, my date pulled me into
the Warner Center where the
swing band was playing
“Pennsylvania 6500.” We
danced and danced, and between
songs, some of my pledge
brothers and I went to the
refreshment stand. isn't it funny
how the Coke; at FD
mysteriously become a light

 

 

can’t:

Junior

By Mary Stanton
Junior

 

Fancy Dress is a time when
people from all over the country
come to take part in the
marathon party weekend that has
been a tradition for years at
Washington and Lee.

As a freshman at W&L,
Fancy Dress became quite an
ordeal for me and many of my
friends. Talk about it began way
before February break rolled
around. I can remember trying
to relax and sunbathe on a
faraway Mexican beach while my
stomach churned at the prospect
of getting a date. The five other
freshman girls who traveled with
me made it incredibly difficult
to forget the dilemma.

As soon as we returned from
break - the race was on! Parties
were unbearably crowded. Girls
crawled out of the woodwork, all
bunking for the FD bid. Every
one of them (including myself)
was looking for the man of their
dreams to invite them to the
famous weekend.

As a freshman the whole
thing seemed so mystical, we had
no ideal what it would be like.
We had made the ball in to such
a huge sensation in our minds,
that there was no way it could
really measure up. All we knew
was that we had to go, preferably
with someone wonderful.

The Wednesday night after
break was the night for me. I
was dancing at a party at a
fraternity house when I saw him.

Senior

By Edward Rowan
Senior

I would like to begin by
welcoming one and all to FD
season. If you haven't noticed,
the tell-tale signs are all over
campus; hundreds of terror
stricken male faces in search of
that perfect date or, in many
cases, a date with a pulse. There
are also you women out there
hoping that an illusive “bid" will
find you or at least a severe case
of the mumps or mono so that
you can say with pride, “I could
have gone, but...!". Of course
it is inevitable that our professors
will schedule tests as close to
March 9 just to add to the
tension of the season. _ In fact, I
hear that there is a "Porter
Rally" scheduled for 10:00 P.M,
FD; nighﬁ, but ; keep your spirits
up he has promised that there
will be a beer garden. And last,

_; ,' 9- .¥ 0» 4' ..> >

.,y‘§'§}€'z‘~

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

It was that junior I thought hung
the moon. I had been looking at
him all year long. Feeling
especially courageous that
evening, I dragged him out onto
the dance floor and we danced
the rest of the night.

The next morning when I
awoke, the first question that ran
through my mind was, “Do I
have a date for FD yet?” After
talking with me friends about the
evening, I remembered. He had
asked me!

I had a great time that year at
FD - the weather was great, the
bands were fun, and it was all so
new to me. Last year's FD was
fun, but in a different way. I
was not as uptight about things
since I knew more of what to
expect. Of course there was a

different theme but the Schedule

was basically the same.

The Saturday afternoon parties
were the highlights for me.
Seeing alums and watching their
pranks was quite entertaining.
My freshmen year, bicycles were
swung from a fraternity ﬁre
escape over the band's heads.
Last year, people listening to
great music, eating crawﬁsh, and
enjoying a few too many
cocktails were lassoed by
pranksters on this same fire
escape.

This year, I am trying not to
think about FD yet. We'll see
what happens...In the meantime,
good luck to everyone and try to
avoid: A) getting arrested; B)
passing out before any scheduled
activities; and C) slapping, biting,
scratching, spitting on, or leaving
your date.

there is the ever present inﬂux of
“Road Cheese" (no offense
ladies) from the five institutions
of higher learning all over
southwestern VA. All will be
primed to say “yes" to almost
any request in the hopes that it
might lead to something much
bigger.

Anyway, as a Senior I am
proud to say that I will have
spent well over $1,000.00 total in
the last four years to be a part of
the biggest party in the South.
Some may say that's a lot of
money. In fact, I'll say it,
“That's a lot of money!!!" But
lets face it, we would have used
that money on beer anyway.

_It's quite amazing to look
back on your three previous H)‘s
when you are a senior. I was

one of the masses freshman year.
I handed out my “bid" to a girl
down the road. Let me say to
all you doubters~‘out there that if
he/she is willing to lie and is
hotter than anyone else’s date,

 

By J.R. Smith
Junior

You know. . .it's almost like
two different worlds. I mean
think about it, and then laugh. .
.cause there are plenty of
differences between men and
women regarding how they deal
with Fancy Dress.

To begin——WOMEN.

WEIGHT: Sure, athletics
and fitness is in, but its pretty
peculiar that more and more these
last few weeks women have been
pedaling those stationary bike
contraptions as if they were
trying to get out of Hell.

DRESS: Now maybe this
should have come before the first
category, because the first thing
that women really think is "Oh
gee, just how am I going to fit
into that dress?" And lets just
settle this issue now. . .Just how
many months does it take to find
the dress? NO. Not just any

dress...THE DRESS!!!.
And now please. No sane person
really cares if my cummerbund
matches the little bows on your
shoes or not!

COMPETITION: I
happened to be sitting outside of
the co-op before break when the
temperature was in the 70s.
Fortunately for me I sat near a
table of six or so women. They
were gabbing loudly (some things
never change). The conversation
kind of went like this:

GIRL #l"Well, who are you

there is absolutely nothing wrong
with taking your cousin to FD.
Seriously though, I had a great
time with a girl from D.C. I
only wish I could remember her
narne!!

Sophomore year was, well...
I don't know how to say it. To
put it as tactfully as possible, “It
was Hell!!!" I am proud to say
that I had a date from Thursday
to Sunday, unfortunately, or now
in retrospect, thankfully, come
Sunday morning I was with
someone different. Yes, I
utilized the famous “date
swapping technique" which has
been a W&L favorite used by us
(hu-hurn) gentlemen for nearly a
century now. The key is to
dump or get dumped as soon as
you can so that you willhave the
time to search for a another
“dumpee." FD is traditionally.
one of the biggest relationship-
ending weekends of the year.
My advice is to drink, drink, and

going to FD with?"

GIRL #2 "I'm going with
my boyfriend. He hasn't asked
me yet, but I think he's just
really fab. Imean, I k n o w
things have been a little rocky
lately, but we always work things
out. Let's be for real, we are II:
perfect couple. Who are you
going with," she asks slyly,
knowing full well thatthls girl
doesn't do too well with the
other gender.

GIRL #3"Well, I have a date,
but you wouldn't know him."

GIRL #2"0h now please. . .I
know everyone."

GIRL #3"No, really."

GIRL #2"Now this is
ridiculous! Don't be shy! Who
is your date?"

GIRL #3"If you must know,
I'm going to the biggest social
event of the year with your EX-
boyfriend. He said you would
understand," she says with a
smile knowing that she has just

lost her best friend for three
years, but she has an FD date!

THE DATE: Now this is a
touchy subject. I have seen
women do some pretty weird
things to try to get a date. The
Wednesday night parties the week
of FD are a prime example.
These parties are more crowded,
packed, and jammed full of
women than any other
Wednesday night parties ever.
Conversations at these parties are
a lot like boomerangs, they all
come back to FD and getting a
date.

By Wendy Wolford
Senior

I can't believe Fancy Dress is
almost here! Whoever hasn't
been hasn't lived. FD is truly an
event that every college student
dreams of. . .four days of fun,
excitement and parties. I just
wish this year's FD weren't my
last.

It seems like yesterday that I
walked past an elephant into the
Warner Center and found myself
in a jungle complete with a
wandering gorilla. What a

.magical evening that was. The

decorations were incredible, the
bands were fabulous (I still listen
to the Hoodoo Gurus religiously)
and I couldn't have had a better

.date. ‘I had no idea that Fancy

Dress was such a big deal.
Although FD my sophomore

year was a blast,’it wasn't as

perfect as the previous one. The

MEN.

WEIGHT: The topic of
weight is a funny thing with
men. We get up in the

,mornings, smile with a deep

sense of pride at ‘our bulging
stomachs, and then head for the

:fridge to add another beer to the

load. It happens like clockwork.

DRESS: Even though we'd
rather go to the ball in jeans,
most of us are civilized enough
to rent or buy a tux. If your
date is cute, a friend, or from
W&L, you definitely buy her
some type of ﬂora! arrangement
to be worn above the waist. If
you really like your date and
want to impress her. . .have a
curnrnerbund that matches the
bows on her shoes. She will
definitely notice and thank you
for caring.

THE DATE: Again, men
don't worry about dates.
However there is one thing that
we do worry very much about...

MONEY!!!: This is a big
one. No other event in the entire
school year sucks more money

out of your pockets than FD.
Before you can even blink,
you've bought or rented a tux,
paid for a corsage, had dinner at
an over priced restaurant, picked-
up some FD tickets, drunk your
FD champagne (man that killer
buzz is rockin’ now!), and
purchased every possible
paraphernalia or souvenir thought
possible. What does that add up
too? BIG BUCI(S!!

week before the big event found
me dateless and frightened.
However, once I got the “bid,"
(a term I detest'but'fca‘n't find a
synonym for) I forgot about the
anxiety I faced when all of my
roommates but me had dates --
that is until the night of the ball
when I saw a fellow classmate
wearing my dress. How could
there have been two dresses that
the salesclerk had termed “one of
a kind?"

However, that was nothing
compared to last year. Beware
of Iaegermeister! The ball was
tons of fun for me, but somehow
I left my date to dance the night
away with one of his good
friends. Fortunately we worked
things out ‘after the dance or I
wouldn't be going with him again
this year.

Although each year has been
unique, all three FD‘s rank in the
top of 10 of my fun times at
W&L. Despite the adventures of

 

 

 

 

 

20

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

What the fraternities

are up to FD weekend

 

By Pat Lopes
Assignment Editor

Wondering what's going on at
the fraternities and sororities for
Fancy Dress weekend?

Band parties are set at every
fraternity for Saturday. Most
parties are closed to the general
student body so check with a
brother before you try to crash a
party. Plans are still up in the
air for cocktail parties, house
dimers and champagne break-
fasts, but just about everyone is
trying to put something together.
Check with social chairmen later
this week or next week, when
most of the plans will be firmed
up.

This year, sororities are also
jumping into the festivities. All
three sororities are taking Thurs-
day night before the concert to
get members and dates for pre-
concert dining.

Here’s a look at what all six-
teen fraternities and three sorori-
ties are up to..

Beta Theta Pi

Saturday afternoon - Halls of
Grass

Saturday night - Truly Dangerous
Swamp Band

Chi Psi

Saturday afternoon - Peace of
Mind

Saturday night - Impulse Drive

Delta Tau Delta
Saturday night - The Press

Kappa Alpha
Saturday night - Doug Clark and
the Hot Nuts

Kappa Sigma

Friday afternoon - Wildgrass

Saturday night at Zollrnan’s
Pavilion - Valence

Lambda Chi Alpha

Saturday afternoon - Michael
Mulraney

Saturday night - Liquid Pleasure

Phi Delta Theta

Saturday afternoon - Indecision

Saturday night - Ben Friedman

Sunday afternoon - David Allen
and Grattan Brown

Phi Gamma Delta
Saturday night - The Loft

Phi Gamma Psi
Saturday afternoon - BS&M
Saturday night - Leggs

Phi Kappa Sigma

Saturday afternoon with SAE -
Liquid Pleasure

Saturday night at SAE - Bud
Grain

Pi Kappa Alpha
Saturday afternoon - Left Exit

T Saturday night - Megaphonics

No need to drive;
ride with Live Drive

By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

Live Drive will not be runn-
ing vans on the night of the
Fancy Dress ball, but vans will
be running on Thursday and
Saturday nights.

According to Live Drive
organizers, there aren't enough
volunteers to run the service on
Friday night. Board Member
Chris Bray encourages people to
walk.

However, there are enough
volunteers to run the service for
the Thursday night Charlie Dan-
iels concert and Saturday night
fraternity parties.

On Thursday night, Live
Drive will be providing rides to
and from the Charlie Daniel's
Band,conccrt at the student ac-
tivities pavilion, driving from 9
p.m. to 2 a.m. On Saturday
night, Live Drive will be running.
their regular weekend service,
making rounds past the frater-

nities and the freshman d9rrn§.____

~speciﬁc g ‘locations at

 

Live Drive Secretary Stephen
Mathis also encourages students
to call Live Drive headquarters at
463-8947 for rides to and from
specific
times. Live Drive will respond
to calls from ,fratemities and

~(l_(_)__r_l_l‘t___S‘_2L.S__}X[(;ll_2i§_p1'J.}(ﬂ.LQ_h.DD’lCS-.-.—-- -—--      " "

Pi Kappa Phi

Saturday afternoon - Truly
Dangerous Swamp Band

Saturday night - The Willies

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Saturday afternoon at Phi Kap -
Liquid Pleasure

Saturday night with Phi Kap -
Bud Grain

Sigma Chi

Saturday afternoon - The
Megaphonics ,

Saturday night — Month of
Sundays

Sigma Nu
Saturday night — BS&M

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Saturday afternoon — Wildgrass
Saturday night - Grandeurs

Kappa Alpha Theta
Thursday night — dinner at a local
restaurant

Kappa Kappa Gamma
Thursday night - catered dinner at
a private residence

Chi Omega _
Thursday night - dinner at
Horsefeathers

PBOQLHMHTIOD
%

tntltmtn of the Realm e e

 

IN REGARD T0 T0 UR LADIES
FOR FANCY I)RESS—you are hereby
forewarned that the lengths, breadths, and
poundage of all said ladies-Yea, even unto
the provinces of Marye Baldwin, Hollings,
Sweet Briar, R- M. W. C.—the Sem—and
other such—-should be recorded previous
to December ﬁrst. >14 Any Progress which
you might realize in this respeét this week-
end-—without aéting in too cavalier a fash-
ion—might well prove to be of advantage.

JOE GOTZ, Sheriﬁ,
for his majesty,

Chuck Second
Court of King Arthur, 1950

 

SS

 

, V’ § § 4 or at 9 A I 1
gr ;, ,4, -A u. p 4» r 1. Ar -4 Q- b 1% > q a » s >
‘V 5 , 4. g. ,,s .> 1' )- ._ a » ,,y .a-- 1 5 - ..r

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

 

Charles Conklin, Chairman
Stewart Hammond, Vice Chairman
Katie Duwel, Treasurer
Alex Hitz, Fancy Dress Chairman
Will Jones, Fancy Dress Vice Chairman
John Hamilton, Fancy Dress Auditor
Michael Applebaum, Entertainment Director
David Blank, Concert Coordinator
Schuyler Rideout, Publicity Director

Ann Gregory, Operations Director
.'lZt§?.°§‘;‘i'fs Martika Parson, Law School Publicity
Tom Hatcher, EC Representative

 

SAB
EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS

oﬁﬁmmrﬁbi

_ ..._......._. “..,....,................._.....u.. 4

FIRE WORKS

Lighting up your night at 12:45

 

    
 

FIIZZZIIXZZIZ

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

Garden

.C

3

22» 

L5 %

e 5
.,<.; E Warner
3 L)

5 S
Q g

~ 2

E &

Center

Ballroom

E‘ Skyline of New York ‘City
57:

Closet

-2“--Iii]-1-2-21-K2-1

Use this form to order...

PERSONALS

Personal ads may be submillcd I0 The Ring-um I‘hi oﬂiee. on the second floor of use univ4_:I'9i|)'
ccmcr. or cm be nailed to: Personals.  Box §99. Lexington. VA 24450: 
in me ofﬁce try Tuesday at mop-n [or mclusmn in the following  s edmm u MISSKIIU
of quzslionablc content may be rv.-jetted by the datum. and I refund will be given.

Rum arc‘ 52.50 {or the ﬁn: four
lines and 8.75 for tech ' '
lin ) m X Iota! |inI:s).Thcrc re
24 ' .1:lL'|Ci'S per line; caps emu
;l\ mu characters.

PAYMENT MUST ACCOKPANY SUBMISSION
Checks to: The _Ring-tum Phi

 PRINTING CENTER

46343448
1st Floor Reid mu

Come to your Printing Center tor:
- FLYERS I POSTERS

- Copying an printing

- Programs

- Newsletters

- custom RESUIIES 8. letters
- ‘rreneperencles

- Brochures G Booklets

- scanning

Tne‘PrImIng center has added a Macintosh llx, scanner. and Laser-
wrtter It to Its eervlee. The Macintosh will reed us-nos disks. Wecan
eddscanned lmegeetoaddtoyou1poeteno,rtIyers.stopbyendpIck
wepernphletabounhte equlprrtenfecqaebllltlee. .

 

l[11Illllllllllllllllll/ll

 

\.\/ ‘
Aerobics 0 Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

(600) 463-6667
GRAND PAVILON MALL

Acroeetrorrﬂenglewood _
> 4fa‘SE|ectieF|oe_d-Floenolier

 

Back Veranda of the House

Doremus Gym

Waxing Poetics

Radiators

Fast Prescription Service
Free Delivery

Lexington Prescription center

1 1 W. Washington St.
483-9166

‘We've ‘Expanded Our ‘Faciiiticsl

0 PAFITYSHIRTS - TEAM 3315178

- E-Shir?‘ - SeIinJe:k1eg

- eves - Aprons es

- Hoe? - Transfer: 1. Lettering
- Sweatshirts - Retail Wholesale

BIG DOG GRAPHICS

17 1/2 S. Randolph ~ Lexington
463-2618

 

The Ring-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

97/'(' J}1/(I§'/// - ‘/(‘M//'//'(’.i' 93(2(m/
lr/'7//a.i%/}(/y/(2// (///(/ 3////2/rm‘/('/y
/*r'y(mi~/4' //l(’ /5/(‘(1471/Y’ ‘(%'yotz/- ('0//yua/‘zy
11/
eanlslpvs Great Gala
(/78 c9<5’/'1/./{/1/(1111/.70/cg Q/wail’ W

‘ /ea/wvkkzyr
372:? .9}/er gar/fzko (9r\%e.s't/u

$7/-V‘:/‘Iy, .//£1/vﬂ {$0
j. 00 /é.//1. — /.00 a».///-.
7//1:/vzrr 6}’///(‘r

' I . /. . .
.ﬂ.n/{y/o//, 7/‘/y////(1

.771‘/4(‘/.1‘ (Ina/K154‘ (I/

‘/////2/('/iw"/y C)?///1*/' .96/I04 $7?

.%)'r'(z)(2n4.i' 90/J96/(‘lg /2:46 (I.///.

C.E. Hardy Jeweler

35 S. Main Street
463-4121

F lowers for Fancy Dress
that will reflect your good taste.

'  Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson 
Lexington, Va. 24450 lg“;

(703) 463-9841-~—~”——~'———*

Fancy Dress
Steering Committee

Beckwith Archer, Decorations
Merideth Atwell, Decorations
Holly Buffington, Invitations
Dabney Collier, Decorations
Andrew Gaffney, Alumni Relations
Shane Grundy, Construction
Alicia Hay, Decorations

Paul Lee, Decorations

Nancy Mitchell, Decorations
Anna Schleuenes, Publicity
Courtney Simmons, Memorabilia
Sumner Timberlake, Decorations
Jamie Tucker, Playbill

Tina Vanderstell, Decorations
Merrill Watson, Decorations

- -T - - Karen Pope
   

Wes Boyd Brion Huber Elissa Prueti
Heather Daesner Allen Ladd Anne Redford
Robin Dru Cathy McCullough Lou’? Rmherford
Anna Dulaney Wendy Merrick Jame Sawyer
Greg Evans Amy Miles Rick Scherer
Kimberly Glodysz Chris Owen E|lZObeTh VOIOTTOH

Jeff Willis

This Piece of Paper...

Can Get You This Piece of Paper.

    

Other college graduate car programs make you jump through more hoops than a circus lion. Forget these gymnastics.
[Dealer Name] has the Ford-Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program. We'll arrange $400 cash back from Ford Motor
Company and pre-approved financing from Ford Credit. All you have to do is take delivery from our stock by December 31,
1990 (or place a factory order by October 1, 1990), and graduate with a Bachelor's or advanced degree between April 1, 1989
and December 31, 1990. Was that hard?

Pm-Approved Credit ’ _ ,

To qualify for pre-approved credit, you must have verifiable employment beginning will'iin_12_O days otvehicle purchase.
Vour salary must be sufficient to cover living expenses as well as a car payment. A prior credit history isn t necessary, but if
you have one, it has to be satisfactory to Ford Credit. Duck soup. Choose the College Graduate Purchase Program that gives

you the car you want and the cash you need. Visit [Dealer Name] today for all the details. 3. tool,
 -"nit, 2 Ford
C it Credit

roan CREDIT C0URTESi’

 FORD  MERCURY
  O 2019 Forest Ave.,:%  261_ﬁg18'o21S::Vice

Buena Vista 'Jz.,,k._mm\s VA DLR

 

 

...m}‘é..”’£t=‘-'».‘u‘.'.."-$.‘« "-.-'7.

The Fling-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

HWCA

from page 18

 

JOHN

from page 18

a football player and a dorm
counselor. One of those guys
everyone thinks already has a
date or could easily get one.

“Where’s your date?” he
asked.

“Well, I don't have one,” I
answered.

He couldn't believe it. He
wanted to know why I didn’t
have a date and all I could say
was Ijust didn’t get asked.

He asked me. I didn't know
what to say. Here we were,
standing in the middle of the
road, in the dark, in the cold,
leaning on zebra-striped road
blocks and this not-just-any guy
was asking me to FD. After he
was done working his shift at the
road block, he came up to the

pavilion and found me. He took
me around to meet all his friends.

Friday was a mad dash trying
to get a flower for him. Class,
work, lacrosse practice. I was

ducking into the dorm after la«
crosse, needing a shower and
looking like I needed one when
he caught me to make dinner
arrangements. We ended up
having pizza in his room. It was
so simple. Pizza on a napkin, in
front of the TV.

We had a blast at the ball.
We danced and talked with
friends on both floors and in the
foyer inbetween. He introduced
me to more of his friends and I
introduced him to mine.

It's hard to explain what

E2fTux

George’s Hairstylist
136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Fancy Dress Check List

Z Flowers
EDinner reservations
D Hair-woops!

Redken Nexus, Paul Mitchel, Sebastian

One W&L Tradition
Supports Another. . .

luin-iﬂmtttia

Celebrates Fancy Dress
with new spring arrivals

Stilltakingordcrsfortuxedosales
andrentals

Sinc¢I963

MasterCard

Choice Student Charge

made the dance so much fun
without explaining all the little
things he did for me. He just
paid so much attention to me that
he completely destroyed the fact
that I felt so awful a day ago for
not being asked.

So let me just say freshmen
ye.a:, you see the pictures, you
‘..tear the stories, you spend
months [wondering if you’re going
to get a date and wondering what
the weekend is really like. After
it’s all over, everyone has their
own stories, most not even re-
motely similar to mine in mood.

But as for myself, my Fancy
Dress weekend seemed like a
fairy tale set in the land of
Washington and Lee.

brown color and smell something
like Jim Beam?

At the fireworks show, I
noticed that my curnmerbund had
decided to leave my body. But,
it was the party night of the year,
and I was not going to worry my
now—closer-to-sober date about
my fleeing cummerbund.

The next morning, I awoke
with a small pain on my right
wrist. It looked as if something
bit me. At the inﬁrmary the lady
looked at it and immediately
recognized it as a cigar bum.
Someone had practically
extinguished their cigar on my
wrist at some point in the
evening. The nurse asked how

much I drank. Not nearly as
much as it seems, I replied.

3is.Mainsn.,1.ui-gm

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Mon.-Sat. 10 am. - 5:30 p.m.

Before I got nervous about not
remembering large parts of the
ball, she assured me that you
don't always feel burns if you
don’t see them happen. I felt as
if she said that just to make me
feel better about my “perfect
buzz.”

After two more parties on
Saturday, FD was over. To close
my story, I now have a scar that
some say is shaped like the
Orient Express on my right hand
that will always remind me of
FD and that my Mother will
always believe was part of some
“fratemity/pledge thing.” I
recovered my cummerbund from
someone who was keeping it for
a souvenir, and my date later
dated our mutual friend for a
while.

  
 
 

  

    
 

K3-3355

  

  
  

in all colors.

PARTY DlSPOSA.BLl-IS‘:
Plastic and paper products available

[fl China

PARTY RENTALS:

I '1 Tables and chairs
Round Tables
Black or white folding chairs
[Fl Chaﬁng dishes
fﬂl Barbeques — Grill or Pig Cooker

[1 Lights & Generators

Other items for any occasion:
0 Punch bowls
0 Coffee makers
0 Silver service

Cullfizr rams‘ uml r¢*.s'vrvuIim1.\'.

   
 
     
 
       
   
 
    

   
 

0 Bcv. Fountain
0 Trays
0 Candelabras

    

S Hwy.11 N.

(703) 463-4680
(703) 463-2173

Green Valley /35/1t~al/5 ré Sales

u. .
'’-O- Box 923, Lexington, VA 24450

JOHN DEERE

‘‘IF YOU NEED IT WHY NOT RENT IT?”

St. Rt. 696, (Old U.S. 60)
Low Moor, VA 24457
(703) 862-5754

 

 

The Fling-tum Phl Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990

 

EDWARD

from page 19

drink some more, for the pain of
a relationship gone sour could
never come close to the hangover
you'll have Sunday, Monday, and
maybe even Tuesday.
My junior year provided me
with some memories that I will
never lose. To sum up my
experience, “Never has one spent
so much to do so little.” As a
prelude to this little tale, I offer
up some wamings: Warning #1 -
Men out there, do not let your
date pop a Benedryl and
subsequently offer them a drink.
If I continue with this story I
will first be censored and second,
I will be purnmelled to death in
my sleep tonight. Let’ just say
we never made it to the Ball.
Warning #2 - If you happen to

ignore “waming #1” make sure
you don't leave anything back at
the room. I'll let you fill in the
rest. In short, we never get to
FD. Probably the funniest
moments came when I was asked
what we thought of the Ball.
My date and I had planned out
our answer. At my Fratemity’s
band party the next evening with
every question came the answer
in stereo, “The decorations were
fantastic, the music was
wonderful, and the fireworks
were marvelous.” Even funnier
was Monday at work-study when
Coach Miller said, “I enjoyed
talking to you and your lovely
date Friday night, it looked as if
you were having a great time.”
Laughing hysterically to myself I

answered, “The decorations were
fantastic....”

Well, now I am a senior and
I am going with the same girl as
last year. As an act of
precaution, I have removed all
antihistamines from her medicine
cabinet. I am totally prepared.
I have invested in dance lessons
so that I know when to rumba,
samba, jitterbug or waltz.
However, I will probably be
riding one heck of a buzz
(caffeine of course) by the time I
get to the Ball, so you may see
me doing my usual dance in
which I hang all over my
girlfriend. For those who know
me, you know what I am saying.

Before I close I have a

CARAVANS

Sterling silver bangl
Pure cotton clothin ‘
Ethnic & exotic styl _
International Folk 5‘

CARAVANS
121. West Nelson Street
i\/lonaayisunday

70 anti - 6 pm

Outrageous earrings

    
   
 

.g,//,.u,,, 4,/,,,;&a4,d/rr 4*’;-A4J¢’4Iré'3.’7'7z».dJWr", ‘  "

 

.  
kg ‘/
3; /,«
t 
 4'
. \ .7
x l
s '1

   

 

 
  

piece of advice for you guys out
there. If you have a tight
budget, you may want to invest
in a long term relationship during
your junior year so that by the
time FD rolls around senior year
the possibilities of going
“Dutch” are that much better.
Just some food for thought.

I hope for this to be the‘

best FD yet. Actually, we'd be
happy to make it in the front
door of Doremus. In all
seriousness, I have the best date
I could ever ask for and I know
March 8-11 will be the greatest
weekend of my life. I wish
everyone all the best this FD
season for it is truly the party to
end all parties.

 

Call for appointment
All Students Welcome

25
WENDY

from page 19

finding a date, not to mention a
dress, everything has always
worked out in the end. Once the
doors open and the music begins,
I race around wildly to see what
incredible changes the SAB has
made to the gym. The
excitement of seeing all of my
friends (only half of whom I
remember) and finding out whom
they are with is the one of the
best parts.

But once the excitement of
Friday night fades away, there’s
no time to get depressed, for FD
Saturday is an event in itself.
After two nights of dancing and
socializing there’s still one more

night of fun before the reality of
Monday morning sets in.

463-9588

Available:

Waterman. . .as classy as Fancy Dress

J & B Office Supply
23 W.  

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

  
    
  

  
    

 

 

 

The Rlng-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990 2 6
R

 
 

Student §ll“;%:”t.’:'.';:°“
Loranne Ausley

Activities Nanci Bauehan

Chris Berdy
Board Kimberly Booth

Jean-Paul Boulee

Chris Butterfield

 
 

Top ten reasons why
I didn’t get
a Fancy Dress date

      
      

   
   
      

   

 
   
  

  
 
 
  
 

  
 
   
  
   

i0. I don't need aldate. I have Caro“,-,9 Clarke
mY lmoglnow mend: ROW MernberS‘at‘Large Michael Danzansky
9. I'm afraid of injuring myself
while doing “Do Butt.”
8. I'm afraid of injuring others
while doing “Da Butt.”
7. I'm afraid my proficiency at

“DC Butt” will detract
attention from the
decorations.

I couldn't find anyone cheery
enough.

I have this rash.

I'm flying to Seattle to see
the “Young Fresh Fellows.”

I once had a bad experience
in a gymnasium.

l have to study for this
military science quiz.

i. What? it's this week?

FREE
PRESCRIPTION
  SUNGLASSES!

Prepare for spring break with a free pair of sunglasses, made in your distance
prescription, when you purchase any complete pair ofglasses (frame and lenses) _
or new ﬁtting of contacts (both lenses). Some restrictions apply. Ask for details.

   
  

   
     
   
 

   
 
    
    

!°.°°.1>-.0‘.°‘

  
 
  
 
  

— contributed by Lee Fleming

 
 

  

you have a Jfantp Zarrss . .
you gave a ganay gcgoolo . .

Why not a fancy Résumé. or
lnvitation. Flger. Newsletter,
Letterhead, etc.. etc.

uality Quick Drink, Ink.

for all your printing needs
214 South Main Street
(703) 463-9232 - FAX (7053) 46ft-4329
over 550 UNDER-GRAD & LAW RESUMES ON FILE!

 
       
       
     
  
  

    

‘N‘\\\te, Front Market

167 S. Main St. ~ 463-3106

  
   
 

  

_«'_Stop by and see us for all your Fancy Dress Weekend
needs. We have a complete line 0fgr0ceries_ and meats. In
/addition, we will have “FD" Specials on your favorite

- "TS Bllllll Newman
I) d 2, I ' I k k a’ ' 5 5
 an parv supp res 0 ma e your wee en a  & 

Student charge accounts are still available. OPTOMETRISTS. P. C.
Lexington: Lexington—Buena Vista Shopping Center 112 Walker St.
463- 1600

Expires April i. 1990.

 
   
     
  
  

    
  

  
  
 
 
 
 

Have a great weekend!

   

  

Serving the wan. Community for over 35 years.

 

 

.r 5 4» as as W O 2* ’ * )- *' " > ‘ "' "’

 

2 5 3 5 .# .7 r or ‘V 

    

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, March 1, 1990 2 7
John Donaldson Ashley Hayes Allison McKeel Michael Patrick
Roger Fakes Taylor Houck Stephanie McNulty Nick Phillips
Jennifer Fischer Ashley Hurt John Mcwhirter Laura Pilachowski Richard Tompkins
Richard Feuring Amy James Gary Maxa Megan Reese Cecily Tynan
John Flippen Jim Jones Mike Meers Virginia Reeves Richard Walt
Charles Frankum Clayton Kennington Mark Monahan Allen Richardson Leslin Weeks
Ginger Gay Paul LeGarde William Morrow Suzanne Sneed Caroline Wight
David Gildea Maureen Levey Susan Moseley John Stump Claude Williams
Tim Halloran Les Lewis John Neslage Roger Sullivan
Bo Hanna Alisann McGloin Hunt Neidringhaus Clay Thomas
- /
“ WANTED New é
YOUR RENTAL FOR FANCY DRESS /
Black Shawl or Black Peak - $48.00; Black Tails - $50.00
/ Buy A Tux For $235.00 (Reg. $265.00) + Free Tux Shirt
/
g The College Town Shop a
/ '/
/ 111 West Nlson Street /A
 ' .'_ ‘ O Fumiturebeelers “ H
Foryourextra pieces ottumiture I   
1 15 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742

\‘

‘Fancy Dress’

  

DO IT

     
       
 

 
   
 
 
  

R nt our D ., 4
e y lililiiccilinnglhit Madness
F.D. TUX9dO 11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
from the Music, games and prizes
Tux Comer Come see our new bar and lounge
t with an extended menu,
‘ cl billiards and darts!
University eaners

  

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

 
   
   
 

 

 
 

 

it
I
i
I
L
t
O
t
A
I
O
v\
o
>-
A
Y
5
f
I
A
.
t
V
t
F
I
i
l
A
O
t
A
A
D
i
I
I
D
r
4
>
v
D
It
6-

sissississississississsssssssssssss

FANCY DRESS 1990 V

Thursday, March 8
Concert at the Pavilion

Q

Captain Nemo
and the Lucid Dreams
opening for

THE CHARLIE DANIELS BAND

Friday, March 9
THE 83RD ANNUAL

FANCY DRESS BALL

9 pm. to T a.m. at the Warner Center

featuring
THE PETER DUCHIN ORCHESTRA

and

THE RADIATORS
with
The Waxing Poetics

Q@%i%%%@is%@s%%%ﬂ@@%Q@@@i@i@s@@@@@@i

Ticket and Memorabilia Sales:
Monday Through Thursday 10-12, 2-5
a Friday 10-12 only
Tickets, T-Shirts, Posters, Cups, Concert Tickets
Thursday tickets: $8/advance, $15/door Friday: $45/couple
T-shirts: i/$12, 2/$20 Posters: 83 Cups: 2/Si
Posters from past years: Si

Room 109, University Center
sissississississississssssssssssiss

@i:@4@4iQ4iQ@@@@@@@@Q@@@@

is
  is
is
  is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
s
is
is
i2:
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is
is

 

 

