‘$5 '-7.

O

0

VOLUME 89. NO. 5

lie ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEX|NGTON.V|RGIN|A

 

OCTOBER 5, 1989

'0'

 

 

By James Lake
Associate Editor

CHARLOTTESVILLE — Saying
that “the status quo is a guarantee
of mediocrity,” President George
Bush last week called on the na-
tion’s governors “to put progress
before partisanship, the future before
the moment and our children before
ourselves” in pursuit of excellence
in education.

Bush‘s remarks came on the sec-
ond day of his Education Summit
with Governors, only the third meet-
ing between a sitting president and
the states’ chief executives, at the
University of Virginia.

From early Wednesday afternoon
through Thursday, Bush, the gover-
nors and members of his cabinet
met to hammer out a joint statement
that called for nationwide educa-
tional goals, greater ﬂexibility for

Sororities
complete
first rush

By Cecily Tynan
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee University’s
three sororities completed their first
rush Saturday, pledging a total of
25 upperclass women.

As a result of last week’s infor-
mal rush, 61 percent of all upper-
class women are in sororities. This
figure may continue to expand as
sororities are allowed to openly ex-
tend bids to upperclass women until
December 6.

“What happens with continuous
open bidding is that a chapter can
fill a chapter total, which has been
set at 87. At any time, a chapter
may extend a bid to a woman as
long as it is filed with Panhelleriic
within 24 hours,” said Wendy Wil-
son, panhellenic publicity, housing
and extension chairwoman. The
number for chapter total is taken
from the number of women each

' national sorority pledged in coloni-

zation last January.

The National Panhellenic Coun-
cil, which governs all national so-
rorities, has enacted this policy to
maintain equally sized chapters on
university campuses.

“At the present time, this brings
all three groups [Chi Omega, Kappa
Alpha Theta and Kappa Kappa Ga-
mma] within two to four of each
other — so we're equal sizes,” said
Wilson.

Unlike fraternity rush, where
some fraternities can get a large nu-
mber of pledges and others may
pledge only a few, the national rush
rules for sororities are designed to
prevent such discrepancies and com-
petition.

“Each group pledged girls they
wanted rather than numbers," said
Wilson.

Informal rush went “extremely
well,” according to Wilson, but will
probably not be repeated at W&L.
“We did it this year because we
had upperclass women who didn’t
choose to rush last January and we
wanted to give them as much time
to be active in a chapter as possible.
The fact the 33 women signed up
for informal rush shows that there
was the need,” said Wilson.

President George Bush addresses the nation’s
governors, his cabinet and some 7,000 other

 calls for reform



FD officers quit
in power struggle

By James Lake
Associate Editor

 

Fancy Dress Chairman Richard Spence and Vice
Chairman Alex Hitz have both resigned, only days
after they were appointed to those positions by the
Executive Committee.

Hitz, saying that “a situation which has started off
so badly can only worsen,” submitted his resignation
to the EC Monday. A returning SAB member with
what he called “extensive” Fancy Dress experience,
Hitz objected to the EC’s selection of Spence, who
Hitz said has no experience with the SAB or Fancy
Dress.

Spence, who applied for the newly created position
of auditor, said he decided to resign because he is
“neither prepared nor willing to take the authority for
this project when it is clear I will have my hands tied
from day one.” _

Spence said SAB Chairman Charles Conklin and

  

the states in the use of federal
funds, a restructuring of educational
systems on a state—by—state basis and
annual reports on progress toward
those goals.

Speaking at University Hall on
the UVa campus late Thursday
morning, Bush quoted the six-year-
old report of the Committee on Ex-
cellence in Education and said its
conclusion, that America is “a na-
tion at risk,” is still true today. And
Bush insisted greater federal funding
will not decrease that risk.

“Hard experience teaches that
we are simply not getting our mon-
ey’s worth in education,” said
Bush. “Our focus must no longer
be on resources. It must be on re-
suits.”

To that end, the president said,
“a radical departure from tradition”
is needed. He outlined five areas of
reform — literacy, diversity, parental

Wilson grants EC
additional funds

By Caroline Davis
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee President
John D. Wilson granted extra funds
totaling almost $16,000 to the
Executive Committee from a special
contingency fund last week.

According to Wilson, the funds
are to aid the EC in allocating
funds to such activities as the Ariel.

The funds were needed because
the EC carried the burden for the
losses incurred by the Student
Activities Board.

If the extra money could not be
found, then some of the funds for
these activities would have to be
cut, Wilson said.

“We aren't speaking speaking of
a reduction in funds, but literally
cut out of the budget,” said EC
President Willard Dumas.

Fraternities

guests Thursday morning at UVa’s University Hall.
Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

other SAB members led him to believe that SAB deci-
sions would be kept from the EC and from the SAB.s
advisor, Dean Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins. He also said
Hitz, Conklin and Entertainment Coordinator Michael
Applebaum had already set the budget for the Fancy
Dress Concert and told him they had already chosen a
band.

Hitz applied for the position of FD chairman but
was named second-in-cornrnand to Spence, who had
applied for the newly-created position of auditor.

“I do not believe, after my own high school experi-
eiice and close involvement with last year’s Fancy
Dress, that anyone's high school experience or other
non-Fancy Dress related experience can be considered
as qualifying,” Hitz wrote.

“The positions governing Fancy Dress, whether
they be as chairman and vice chairman or as co—chair-
men, are too closely intertwined and require too much
teamwork for there not to he must, honesty and integri-
ty between the two people involved,” wrote Hitz.

After the selection of Hitz and Spence last week,
SAB Chairman Charles Conklin met with the two FD
officers to discuss their job descriptions. After that
meeting, Spence said he felt the EC had vested total
authority in him, but he said Hitz wanted total creative
control and to report to Spence only when he was
ready to make comrriitments.

‘‘I am not going to be the" ﬁnancial scapegoat for
something I’m clearly not going to have any control
over," said Spence.

Staﬂ Reporters Cecily Tynan and Melinda Conkling
contributed to this story.

choice, assessments of educational
progress and a commitment to high
standards.

First, Bush said, “We must be a
reading nation." He called for a
more involved educational process
in which “children must do more
than identify names on a multiple-
choice question” and which never
promotes a student ‘-‘just because he
or she has passed an arbitrary birth-
day.”

Second, America's schools
should “be unafraid of diversity."
While all schools should share mini-
mum standards and a core curricu-
lum, “the means by which that cur-
riculum is taught and those goals
met should be as diverse and varied
as America itself,” he said. “Let us
give " our schools and our teachers
the freedom to do what they do
best.”

Third, Bush said, because chil-

D Please see BUSH page 4

According to Wilson, activities

_ By Chuck Broil
such as the Ariel are a strong asset

Staff Reporter

SAB woes worsen

EC hears charges,
issues ultimatum

By Melinda Conkling
Staff Reporter

After hearing charges that Student Activities Board
Chairman Charles Conklin held secret meetings and
planned to keep some information from the Executive
Committee, the EC has given Conklin two weeks to
implement reforms and alter SAB policies.

“I think he realizes this is an ultimatum and he’s
got to produce,” EC Secretary Chris Giblin said at
Monday’s EC meeting.

Vice President John Sheinberg agreed and told
Conklin what changes the EC expects.

“You need to take control of your organization and
see to it that procedural changes are made, budgetary
restraints are continued along the way they’re going,”
Sheinberg said. “Every board member has an equal
voice. Your meetings need to be run orderly and ratio-
nally. Things need to be approved as a committee, not
as individuals. If you can't make these changes, I
beseech you, say so, because if you can’t, we will
place someone else in your position."

The EC‘s ultimatum was issued after Conklin at-
tempted to explain his reasons for not implementing
changes suggested by the EC. These changes in SAB
procedure, which EC members said they listed at a
Sept. 18 meeting with Conklin, included holding SAB
meetings in an organized manner in the EC room;
keeping complete minutes and attendance records for
those meetings; and consulting the SAB’s treasurer
before committing to any expenditures.

Monday’s warning to Conklin followed complaints
by SAB Treasurer Katie Duwel and Fancy Dress Chair-
man Richard Spence. The EC heard those complaints
in a special meeting Thursday night.

At the Thursday meeting, Duwel charged that the
SAB was holding “secret meetings” behind her back
and that she was not present while any votes were
taken. She said Conklin once told her to “shut up”
when she asked him a question during an SAB meet-
ing.
“My hands are tied,” she said. “We have no
group discussions being made. There are no decisions,
no votes, no anything. I don't know what’s going on.
There’s a lot of covert activity, they’re making deci-
sions without the entire board.”

Also Thursday, Spence told the EC that he could
not work with the SAB “as it stands."

He said “it has become plainly apparent to me”
that there are problems in the board.

“Any committee that is subordinate to the EC and
excludes their treasurer, faculty representative, and EC

El Please see SAB page 3

Process is slow
for new houses

Frank Parsons, Interfraternity Coun-
cil President Kevin Nash, alumni
Ross Singletary and Jeff Kelsey,

to the school, and should be
continued.

Wilson stressed this is a one-
time special funding to help

Renaissance

Many questions remain unan-
swered after the Sept.28 Fraternity
Steering

and other students, faculty,
alumni and staff, makes
recommendations to Wilson about

C°mmm°° renovation issues. Wilson makes the

straighten out the EC budget.

The money, which came from a
discretionary fund, was a special
gift and was to be allocated to
specific groups by the EC, not by
Wilson. '

  
   

 

President John Wilson
a shame to deny the groups the

meeting was tied up with blueprint
and application proposals.

“The agenda was not completely
covered,” said Associate Dean of
Students Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins.
He blamed delays on not realizing
how long it would take to go over
each fratemity’s proposed blueprints

According to Dumas, the proper funding, bin, without
decision to use the fund was a Wilson’s help, it would have been
quick one. Dumas said he explained necessary. and applications.
the EC’s budget situation to Wilson The Minority student

over lunch, and Wilson had the
money for them by that afternoon.
Dumas said the EC wants- to

¢T1C°“Ia8€ 316 50110073 Various The other organizations that

activities to try new things and to received additional funds were the The committee,
grant them 1116 moﬂe)’ I0 d0 50- Independant Union, Contact, and

Dumas also said it would have been Live Di-ive_ John, Assistant

and poﬁce

see improved relations

By Brian Root
Senior Copy Editor

Relations between Washington
and Lee’s fraternities and the police
are the best they have been in
years, said Lexington Police Chief
Bruce Beard at Tuesday night's
lnterfratcmity Council meeting.

Assessing relations between
police and the fraternities, Beard
said, “This year has been the best
in my more than 20 years on the
force.“

Also, none of the fraternities
made any complaints about the
police’s conduct since the end of
the formal rush period which ended
Sept. 23.

Also, Tad Kelley, the IFC’s
Public Relations Chairman, reported
that Alcohol Awareness Week will
begin Sunday, Oct. 15. Kelley said
the Health Education Committee,
which is sponsoring the week, will

conduct an alcohol awareness
seminar. All fraternity freshmen
must attend.

In addition, Kelley said, the

committee will sponsor two band

parties, one at the student pavilion
and one at the General Headquarters
restaurant.

IFC President Kevin Nash
reminded the fraternities of the
IFC's regulation that requires houses
to provide “altemative beverages”
at all parties, as well as to maintain
a more strict entrance policy. Nash
said each fraternity should not allow
people to leave the party with open
containers of alcohol, and to keep
the noise level as low as possible.

Nash also restated the IFC's
policy on how many parties a
fraternity may have at its house
each month. A house may have four
weekend parties at the house, and
an additional two Wednesday night
parties at the house, rather than
simply four parties per month, as
was reported last week.

The IFC also considered, but did
not act on, a proposal to contribute
money for a band to perform at the
student pavilion during Christmas
Weekend. The Student Activities
Board, because of its current
financial problems, has considered
cancelling the concert, according to
IFC Secretary Gordon Dekuyper.

Association will receive $200 for a
plaque that will be placed in the
Library, according to Dumas.

Atkins later said that the proce-
dure will run smoother now that the
first proposals have gone through,
and the members of the committee
know “what to look for."
composed of
Atkins, Dean of Students Lewis
to the President

final decision on all matters.

Applications from Pi Kappa Al-
pha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Beta
Theta Pi, Sigma Nu and Phi Kappa
Sigma have been approved.

Only Pi Kappa Alpha’s and Sig-
ma Alpha Epsilon’s blueprints have
been studied and approved by the
committee. Nash said the committee
made only “minor adjustments" to
the original blueprints.

Twelve of W&L’s 15 fraternities
have submitted applications. Phi
Gamma Delta said is not applying
because its house has been recently
renovated. In addition, Atkins said

CI Please see HOUSES page 3

 

ODAC leaders

W&L soccer players celebrate after a recent
win. The Generals are 2-0 in the Old Domin-

 

ion Athletic Conference. See story on page 6.
W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

 

  
  

  

OPINION


 The SABs long.

 and winding road

The S, A and B keys on The Ring-tum Phi’s computer
-;«_’ are wearing out in a hurry. The resignations of the two
I students most responsible for Washington and Lee’s
biggest social event, the Fancy Dress Ball, are only the
latest turns in a series of crises to hit W&L’s Student
Activities Board.

"f Rarely has a single subject commanded more space in
The Ring-tum Phi and more time in Executive Committee
meetings. And the events of the past few days indicate
there are still many miles left on what has already been a
rough road.

After the controversy of 1988 (remember the “Reconcil-
=5‘! iation Ball” that was anything but?), everyone was
 desperately hoping for a smoothly run, well-received FD
in 1989. And we thought we had one — until the bills
.¢,;.— came in. Like that Visa bill at the end of the month, the
 fare for W&L’s midnight excursion on the Orient Express
seemed much higher than anyone — including SAB
leaders — had expected.

The EC was less than pleased. With the threat of
administration intervention hanging over its head, the EC
tried to meet last year’s expenses without eliminating this
year’s budget entirely. As the EC moved in, the already
1* cliquish SAB became even more so. A “we-they”
 mentality developed. A crisis was guaranteed.

The crisis became public when SAB Treasurer Katie
Duwel and FD Chairman Richard Spence came forward
with reports of exactly what the EC did not want to hear.

.., ._ _,, u .1, .._., .4;
; A ‘-3 i" 4.4 J 5‘

business as usual in the SAB office — the same business
that led to a debt that now exceeds $23,000.

Of course, there is far more to this mess than Conklin’s
failure to implement the needed changes. There is the
dirty, cynical question of whether the fact that Spence,
Dumas and junior EC Rep. John Fialcowitz are roommates
had anything to do with Spence’s appointment. Such ugly
suspicions combined with the cliquishness of the SAB and
Spence’s lack of FD and SAB experience to make his
task an impossible one.

First, the roommate factor. Any upperclassman should

know that Dumas bent over backwards last spring to
avoid even the appearance of bias. When the EC voted in
favor of a special election after the president-elect
withdrew from W&L, the vote was 6-5. Dumas abstained.
At the time, it appeared his abstention might have cost
him what was rightfully his — the presidency. Fortunately,
the EC reconsidered, but not until Dumas had proven that
his commitment to impartiality is beyond reproach.
'~ ’ That commitment continued in the discussion of who
should chair this year’s Fancy Dress Ball. The EC
received only one application — that of Alex Hitz. As he
explains elsewhere on this page, he was the only applicant
- for any FD position with SAB and FD experience. What
; he does not say is that Spence, while still in high school,
organized two Key Club conventions, both involving
larger budgets and more people than Fancy Dress could
ever have.

Dumas, Fialcowitz and the rest of the EC wisely were
not limited by their applicant pool. Ever-mindful of last
year’s problems, they looked for »the most qualiﬁed, most
: organized person. And, in an 8-4 decision, they chose
Spence. Yes, Fialcowitz and Dumas voted. No, their votes
did not matter — only four EC members felt Hitz was
more qualified than Spence, not enough to swing the vote
his way. And, no, their friendship with Spence did not
f affect the EC’s debate or the votes of other members. As
' Secretary Chris Giblin said, “That didn’t even enter into
the discussion.”

What next? First, the EC will try to ﬁll the now-vacant
ﬂ FD positions. We encourage all interested students to
 apply —- whether or not they have SAB experience. And
we encourage Conklin to remember well the words of EC
,. Vice President Jon Sheinberg: “You need to take control
, of your organization and see to it that procedural changes
are made, budgetary constraints are continued along the
; way they are going. Every board member has an equal
2 voice. Your meetings need to be orderly and rational.
Things need to be approved as a committee, not as
individuals. If you can’t make these changes, I beseech
you, say so, because if you can’t we will place someone
else in your position.”

The student body deserves nothing less.

3;‘ As we report on page one, and as Spence himself reports ,
' elsewhere on this page, SAB Chairman Charles Conklin -‘
has failed to follow the EC line. He was willing to allow

 

A \/\/as him t0“

“DC! Lee Homecongiq  ,,_. _‘

/

//‘/ . -I’/,4

  

',,.',- ' 34.

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 5, 1989

Mail, sihcc «(Dbl

have ta be acfvlﬁl

.  T?) min...

 
 

Fancy Dress officers jump ship

By Alexander Hitz

EDITOR'S NOTE: Alexander Hitz was named Fancy Dress vice-chairman
by the Executive Committee last week but resigned Monday. This is his letter

of resignation.

By Richard Spence

EDITOR'S NOTE: Late last month, Richard Spence was named Chairman
of the 1990 Fancy Dress Ball. He resigned from that position Wednesday.

It is with deep regret that I must resign as vice-chairman of Fancy Dress
1990. However, in good conscience, all things considered, I do not feel that
the Executive Comrnittee’s decision to name me vice—chairman without my
previous consent — or even an application for that position — is one that I
can support by accepting the position. Also, considering the circumstances
following the Executive Committee's decision of September 25, and my
experience so far with the current Fancy Dress chairman, I am sure that a
situation that has started off so badly can only worsen. The positions
governing Fancy Dress, whether they be as chairman and vice-chairrnan, or
as co-chairmen, are too closely intertwined and require too much team—work
for there not to be trust, honesty, and integrity between the two people
involved. After hearing of Thursday night’s Executive Committee meeting,
which the current Fancy Dress chairman attended, I can honestly say that I
do not believe such a rapport exists at present or can ever exist in the

future.  ‘
I do}-.not ‘feel. that the

It is indeed not the Vice-
EC’s decision to

Chairmanship itself which I find so
unappealing. Had I been asked by
the Executive Committee whether I name me Vice chaff.
would be willin to ace t a .
position other thin the on? for man wlthout my pre-

which I applied. I would have vious consent is one

answered affirmatively, provided the

person under whom I would be I can support‘

working has more relevant — AIexandef 
experience than I do. By relevant

experience in this instance, I mean previous, extensive involvement with
last year's Fancy Dress, in addition to participation in the Fancy Dress
Steering Comrriittee, and probably Student Activities Board experience also.
I do not believe after my own high school experience, and close
involvement with last year's Fancy Dress, that anyone’s high school
experience or other non-Fancy Dress related experience can be considered
as qualifying. For Fancy Dress, I do not believe that appointing individuals
to positions for which they have not applied is an action done in the
student body’s best interest. It is impossible for people who have never
worked on Fancy Dress to know this.

I find it very regrettable that the situation has turned out so badly and so
grossly out of proportion regardless of whatever good intentions were
involved in the original decision-making process. A tradition as important
as Fancy Dress at Washington and Lee should not be in the hands of

someone who does not know its intricacies intimately. I am also sorry that
I will not be involved in Fancy Dress this year. Had I not really wanted to
take an active role in Fancy Dress and thought that I could make an
integral contribution to its success, I would not have applied for a position

“Experience” is a term used to describe relative knowledge a person or
an organization may have of a specific task or position. Over the past eight
days, I have found that the Student Activities Board has developed its own
definition of “experience,” one which you may be as confused and
dismayed over as I am.

On the night of Sept. 29, I interviewed for the position of auditor for the
1990 Fancy Dress Ball. The Executive Committee, in its “inﬁnite
wisdom," decided to overlook the applicants for chairman and vice
chairman, and appointed me chairman. I’ll be the first to admit to you that
their methods of appointment are somewhat callous. However, I met with
the SAB chairman Tuesday afternoon, eager to begin to work with the FD
and SAB committees. What I learned over the next 24 hours or so was
that I had, in effect, been named “captain” of a ship that had sunk before
it left drydock.

I was so shocked by what I was told by the SAB’s Charles Conklin,
speaking as»“Chair‘rnan of his Board,” that I left our midnight-2:30 a.m.

- meeting with a list of every one ‘of his notable quotes. What ‘he (and then-

Vice‘ Chairman Alex Hitz) said that evening speaks for itself and will
provide ample examples of the fundamental problem with the current board.

I was told by Conklin:

- the SAB would not be running Fancy Dress this year as it had in the
past few years.

- the current SAB treasurer, Katie Duwel, was not working out - she is
left out of most major board decisions. Katie called up EC Vice President
Jon Sheinberg whenever we decided anything important.

- the board had planned meetings to coincide with weekly IFC meetings
so they could keep the SAB faculty advisor, Dean Leroy C. “Buddy”
Atkins, from attending SAB board activities.

- the board operated without the cooperation of their EC representative
last year, and this year the relationship was tentative. There is a feeling
that the EC does not trust us and we certainly don't trust them.

- the SAB felt “many of the things that go on in this (SAB) office are
none of the EC’s business.  They are confidential discussions.”

Also, Alex Hitz told me:

- “I have already chosen the people I wanted to work with, and you are
not my choice. I have worked out with Charles and Michael [Applebaurn,
Concert Coordinator] the budget for FD Thursday night, and we’ve
basically chosen the band and budgeted our expected loss.”

'- he would not accept “a VICE chairmanship,” and, if I was not willing
to compromise on the position, he would use his friendship with 1989 FD
Chairwoman Liz Smith to keep her from helping me and from turning over
to me her ﬁles on last year’s ball, which are the only un—altered documents
available and are housed at her residence. (The files in the FD desk of the
SAB office represent, in Conklin’s words, “creative bookkeeping," and, in
my words, represent fraud, gross mismanagement and, dare I say it, lies...)

Gilt: ﬂing-tum lﬂltt

' THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY '
Founded September 18, 1897

' Editors ......................................................... ..Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison

 

Associate Editors ..................................... ..Jarnes Lake, Genienne Mongno
Assignment Editor ................................................................ ..Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor .................................................... ..Jeff Woodland
Entertainment Editor ................................................................ ..Parnela Kelley
Sports Editor .................................................................................. ..Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor ........................................................................ ..Brian Root
Business Manager ........................................................................ ..Anne Dysart
Advertising Manager .................................................................... ..Jason Kelly
Circulation Manager ..................................................................... ..Alan Litvak

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but also
from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office,
Room 208 of the University Center, by noon Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

as important as chairman.

James Lake's ideas on how to ﬁght terror-
ism (MY VIEW, Sept. 21, 1989) certainly
sound terrific; after all, talking about terrorisim
is much like being ‘tough’ on crime: it is an
easy position to take and failure to do so is
the political (and social, here at W&L) equiva-
lent of seppuku. Worse, one’s friends and
fellow citizens may call you a coward, an ap-
peaser and a wimp if you don’t. However, I
must disagree with Mr. Lake because the inevi-
table outcome of his proposal is, I suspect, not
in the best interests of this country.

Mr. Lake's idea is this: the American hos-
tages in Lebanon must be freed; their captors
require Iranian encouragement and support to
survive; Iran must sever this relationship; U.S.
military action against vital Iranian oil facilities
at Kharg Island will accomplish this goal; this
military action will “eventually .. succeed”
with acceptable losses for our side; failure to
support this is cowardly and dishonorable. I
take issue with each assumption.

Mr. Lake tells us his plan is simple. This is
how it will work: the President announces that
U.S. forces will begin bombing Iranian oil
facilities at Kharg island in 48 hours, unless all
American hostages are set free. If the hostag-
es are not_freed then the bombers roll. If the
Iranians are still unimpressed then we repeat.
Eventually, we move inland and bomb the
Iranian mainland itself. The Iranian.leadership',
logically, will abhor bloodshed, and capitulate.
Doesn't this sound great so far? Unfortunate-
ly, I see a few problems.

First, why give a 48-hour advance warning,

  

LETTERS

unless you wish to alert Iranian anti-aircraft
defenses and waste our pilot’s lives? Second,
Mr. Lake’s faith in strategic bombing, bom-
bardment intended to break an adversary psy-
chologically rather than rriilitarily, is not shared
by many military strategists, historians and sol-
diers. Strategic bombing did not break the
will of the North Vietnamese people or their
government, nor did it succeed against the
British and the Germans in World War II. But
no matter, bombing Kharg doesn’t work, we
will bomb Iran itself, the Iranian government
will panic and then collapse. Mr. Lake doesn’t
suggest what we should bomb when we reach
the mainland. I wonder if he intends to blitz-
krieg Tehran? He also grants the Iranian lead-
ers a logic and rationality which they show no
signs of possessing. Let’s not assume that all
people are motivated by the same things Am-
ericans are. Perhaps the Iranians like to take
hostages (they have done it before). Also, per-
haps their government needs a foreign enemy
to distract their people's attention away from
problems at home. If so, then Iran might wel-
come a U.S attack. Don’t forget that Iran and
Iraq have recently ended their own 8-year war,
one of the bloodiest conflicts of this century.
Iran showed no reluctance to waste the lives of
of their citizens in furtherence of political ob-
jectives.

Before we endorse Mr. Lake's idea, let's be
sure we recognize what the implications are.
War. That is what he suggests. That is what
bombing is all about. I do not say that military
action in furtherence of direct U.S national»
security interests is never necessary. Clearly, it

Student reevaluates U.S.— Iran hostage issue

sometimes is, but I cannot believe our vital
national interests are threatened by the exis-
tence of some fanatic kidnappers and their
small number of American hostages, somewh-
ere in Lebanon. Yes, this is a tragic event and

.we should and will continue to seek their re-

lease. But war? Is that the price we’re willing
to pay? I doubt that.

I think we should remember one more fact.
The U.S only recently ended hostilities in the
Persian Gulf. Do we really want to return to
that, and can we afford to (this country of ours
is darrm near broke, or has no one noticed)?

Finally, if the American people think the
agonies of 10 15 hostages justifies a war then
they will, presumably, say so. In that case the
U.S military will follow orders and kill Irani-
ans. Some American, who can saw how many,
will die. Let’s not kid ourselves, that's what
will happen, but if that is the national will, so
be it. Let’s just be sure it's worth it.

I recently had the dubious honor to spend a
total of eight months, courtesy of the Depart-
ment of Defense, 'In the same miserablre part
of the world that Mr. Lake wishes to attack.
Now, I have no idea what plans Mr. Lake has
after graduation, but I suspect they don't in-
clude personal participation in the attacks he
supports. If he does wish to participate, I wish
him well but suspect his martial fervor will
cool as he approaches the North Arabian Sea. I
know mine did. Furmy how that works, don't
you think?

John Brigham, '91 Law

D Please see spencrs page 3

  
    

 

 

  

NEWS

it
By Jennifer Gibson '
Staff Reporter

The fate of Trident, the
organization founded “ to meet the
growing needs of women students
on the W&L canpus,” has not yet

been determined, according to
Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer—Lamont.

Schroer—Lamont believes that
since the arrival of sororities,

upperclass women have shifted their
attentions toward the Greek system
and have left Trident without
leadership. As a result, the group is
desperately seeking “women with
energy who are willing to devote
three to eight hours per week," said
Schroer—Lamont. She predicts that
without dedicated students, the

organization will not be able to
sustain itself.

Schroer—Lamont also realizes
that even if Trident is able to
assemble an executive board, its
intentions will still be subject to
change. Although the group hopes

to continue sponsoring its social
events, “Winter Slos ” and
“Confetti's," this year's winter

celebration may not be possible,
since no dues were collected this
fall.

Schroer-Larnont said Trident's
focus may shift toward different
activities. Possibilities for the
coming year include working with
the sororities to acquire a house
they could share. Trident would also
like to reintroduce ideas for events
such as art exhibits, receptions, and
lectures, Schroer-Lamorrt said.

SAB

from page 1

representative from their activities
does not in my opinion deserve to
serve the EC,” said Spence.

Spence also said Conklin once
told SAB members that much of
what they discuss is “none of the
EC’s business.”

After hearing from Spence and
Duwel, EC members expressed their
own concerns about SAB proce-
dures. President Willard Dumas
said, “The attitudes that I've experi-
enced with this board have been
blatantly adversarial. "

Junior Rep. Tom Hatcher said,
“My main concern is with regards
to the student allocation of funds. I
have not seen the leadership I ex-
pected, the people I have faith in
have been alienated.”

Several EC members said the
EC cannot absorb another ﬁnancial
loss like the one suffered by the
SAB last year, which Dumas said
now exceeds $20,000.

“We have exhausted good faith
in these people. We received assur-
ances two weeks ago. Why must I
continue to extend good faith to
subcommittees of the EC," Dumas
asked.

Junior Rep. John Fialcowitz ex-
pressed tiie same opinion. “We
can't justvtrust that these atrocities
won't happen again, ” he said.

Thursday’s special meeting
ended when the EC adjourned with-
out making any ﬁnal decision.

Conklin was present at that meeting
but, when EC members asked him
about speciﬁc charges, he repeatedly
told them, “I don't recall.”

After the meeting, he refused to
comment on the allegations made
against him.

Conklin decided to present his
case at the Monday night meeting.
He apologized for his previous si-
lence and said that he wanted to
stay “in power, chairman of the
SAB.”

“If you give me a couple of
weeks I’ll work it all out,” he said.

When asked whether he ever
said some SAB discussions or activ-
ities were “none of the EC’s busi-
ness,” Conklin said it is not the
SAB’s policy to keep anything hid-
den from the EC.

Conklin said the SAB’s faculty
advisor, Dean Leroy C. “Buddy”
Atkins, was not present at the SAB
Board meetings because Atkins “in-
timidated one of my Board mem-
bers. I felt like I shouldn't exclude
him but at the same time he
shouldn't be in all of our meetings
if he’s going to hinder that person’s
speaking up or taking part in the
meetings.”

Conklin also said he can only
listen to one person at a time during
a meeting and may have asked
Duwel to be quiet while another

person was speaking. But he said he .

wants every SAB member to con-
tribute to discussions.

Third-year law Rep. David An-
thony warned Conklin that SAB
board member revisions will be
made in the immediate future if
changes are not made.

“I guess the bottom line is, do
you understand if changes aren’t
made that we will take action, ”
said Anthony.

“Certainly,” said Conklin.

In other business Monday night,
James Rambeau, chairman of the
Student Financial Relations
Committee, reported that because of
national policies Harris Teeter and
WalMart are required. to request
identiﬁcation from check writers.
WalMart representatives said that
they would contact their national
headquarters to see if the
identiﬁcation process could be
waived for W&L students.

The GHQ Lacrosse Club and
Mock Convention representatives
discussed budget requests. Gary
McCullough of Amnesty
International asked that the EC
review their decision of not granting
funds to Anmesty. A motion to
grant a budget request of $140

.failed.

Also, the EC reported that there
were sufﬁcient applications received
for the Student Health Committee.
Applications are still being accepted
for the Library Advisory, Registrar
& Scheduling, University Athletics
and Financial Aid committees.
Interviews for these positions will
be held Monday at 8 pm.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 5, 1989

Trident needs help HOUSES

from page 1

{.7

MenT6riaI service

Phi Delta Theta's application will
not be approved until the fraternity
complies with the university's hous-
ing standards, and is off probation.
Atkins said the project will start
on time in spring 1990. However,
Nash said questions that must be
answered by Lexington zoning ofﬁ-
cials, may hold things up.
Bass Construction is working as
a general contractor for the project,
helping the committee provide cost
estimates for each house and the
Renaissance Program in general.
Nash said the committee has spent a
good deal of time comparing new
cost estimates to the originals.
Atkins said plans for reconstruc-
tion will work on a rotating basis.
“After the demolition crew ﬁn-

ishes at one house, they will move
on to the next as the construction
crew begins at the first house,”
Atkins said.

Because of that schedule there

may be a number of fraternity
houses unsuitable for living, eating,

parties, and rush functions once the
project is under way. The committee
has not yet submitted any ﬁnal pro-
posals regarding these issues.

Some students may be housed in
empty rooms in Gaines Hall, Woods
Creek, and other university housing,
but the rest will have to live with
friends off—campus, Atkins said.
Nash said students will probably eat
in Evans Dining Hall. No decisions
have been made regarding parties or
nrsh functions for houses during
their renovation.

set for next week
i_I__1_L_e_e Chapel

From the W&L News Ofﬂce

A memorial service honoring
General Robert E. Lee will be held
at noon Thursday, Oct. 12, in Lee
Chapel on the Washington and Lee
campus. The ceremony will mark
the 119th anniversary of the passing
of Lee, who served as president of
Washington College from 1865 to
1870.

The day’s activities will begin at
_9330 3-In-. the time of Lee's death
in 1870, when the bells in the cha-

pel will toll 19 times — equivalent
to a l9—gun salute. At noon, the
Liberty Hall Volunteers, a group of
W&L students and employees inter-
ested in Civil War reenactment, will
march from Washington Hall on the
W&L campus to Lee Chapel.

The memorial service will begin
at noon in Lee Chapel. I. Taylor
Sanders, university historian and
professor of history at W&L, will
speak on the life of Lee and his
contributions to Washington College.

The service is sponsored by the

Liberty Hall Volunteers.

Ponderings of political poppycock

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

As a journalist in a democratic society, it is
my duty to keep readers up to date on important
political issues such as the latest developments
in President Bush’s ongoing war against drugs:
yesterday a U.S. army regiment was ambushed
by P.C.P. paratroopers in the Heroin Hills of
Southern Colombia. The deadly P.C.P.
paratroopers, who were armed with syringes,
hallucinations and German Beer Hops wiped out
the whole regiment in less than an hour.
According to government sources who are so
bored that they keep up with these kinds of
things, this was the worst battle since the July
Marijuana Massacre in which three U.S. Navy
air craft carriers were sunk by a powerful
Steroid Submarine. At this point, careful readers
with news oriented brains should be asking six
obvious questions: 1) Why is President Bush
waging a war against inanimate objects? 2a)
Shouldn’t the war be against "illegal drugs"?
2b) What does the president have against
cough syrup? 3a) What kind of drugs was the
writer using at the time that this article was
written? 3b) Cough Syrup? 4) Why doesn’t
someone invent grey beer? 5) In reference to
questions 1-4, who cares?

like a good time to move onto another exciting
political issue such as the one involving New
York Mayor Ed Koch. You remember Mayor
Koch don't you? The first American politician
who spent the majority of his time in ofﬁce
roaming the streets of New York asking arbitrary
people the same question.

Mayor Koch (speaking to an arbitrary
person): "What am I doing?"

The Arbitrary person: "Roaming the
streets of New York asking rhetorical
questions when you could be doing something
productive like painting the Statue of
Liberty."

Getting back to major political developments,
Koch was recently defeated in his bid for re-
election. Of course, the fact of his defeat is not
surprising since Koch was thought to be
something of a weirdo in a city where there are
lobotornized rnirnes dressed in drag on every
street corner.

As I shock my brain with high voltage
creativity electrodes in an attempt to fabricate (I
mean remember) another major political issue it
just occurred to me that most major political
issues involve something boring like the trade
deﬁcit or farm subsidies. I guess this explains
why many newspapers no longer cover major
political developments. These papers have
discovered that the American public wants to

viewers and uses it to have Naked Putt-Putt Golf
Parties in mega-sized mansions, not the General
Accounting Ofﬁce. The American public wants
to read about President Bush's recent ﬁshing
trip, not the Middle East. The American public
wants to read about famous drug-addicted actors
getting admitted to the Betty Ford Clinic, not
Gorbachev. The American Public wants to read
about violent crime, not the Senate. And most
of all, the American public (especially the
American public that is now reading this article)
wants to read about books written by the victims
and perpetrators of violent crime. Well reader,
if that's what you really want, okay.

Dallas — A suburban housewife who was
repeatedly raped, stabbed and trampled upon
by a coalition group of Hells Angels, Ku Klux
Klansman, and Skin Heads is now in the
process of writing a book about her ordeal.
Her book, "It’s a Violent World But
Someone’s Got To Live In It" is scheduled for
publication in late January.

In the meantime the Angels-Klan-Skinhead
coalition, currently out on bail, have all
become Born Again Hari Krishnas. The
Coalition, which has formed a monastery in
Oregon, is also writing a book about their
experiences, "From Killing to Krishna, the
Journal of Reformed Renegades."

Because I sense that this article is killing

Since we have exhausted the subject of the
President's continuing "War on Drugs," it seems

SPENCE-

from page 2

I won’t bore you with the rest of
the details, but sufﬁce it to say
there are plenty more. For example,
I suggested that, if I were to take
the responsibility for this entire
project ﬁnancially, there would be
an end to charge accounts at
virtually every store in Lexington,
including the Virginia ABC Store,
East Lex, Willson-Walker House,
McCambell Inn, etc., for extraneous
“fringe beneﬁts" for “the Board."
Charles and Alex both were enraged
by that idea. They claimed these
accounts never existed and I was
unreasonable not to expect some
fringe beneﬁts be awarded to “the
Board” for a job well done.

I don’t think blatant
mismanagement of student funds
resulting in consecutive losses — the
SAB “experience” of Fancy Dress
’89 lost over $20,000, though the

balance sheet reports a net profit of
over $1,200 — is a job well done.
Further, there was no reason for
these two ofﬁcers to be defensive
about my allegations because there
are no written records left to
account for these expenses. They
disappeared in the “creatively kept”
closing statements of FD 1989
housed in the “creatively run” SAB
executive ofﬁce.

I am not blaming the current
SAB hierarchy for last year’s
problems, although these people
were all a part of that situation. The
fundamental problem lies in the
operating premise of the SAB. This
sub-committee ignores its EC
representatives, its faculty advisor,
and its treasurer. It is responsible
for $40,000-plus in student body
funds and acts as parent of the FD
Steering Committee, given roughly

By Merrill Watson

 

TALKBACK

read about wild television preachers like Jim
Baker, who takes money from poor television

brain cells,

$50,000 in student body funds. Its
chairman claims that its business is
“confidential.” The board presented
me with what I would honestly call
extorted temis but will refer to as a
“package deal,” the bottom line
being my cooperation with their
system in exchange for their support
operating FD.

The SAB treasurer has thrown up
the warning signs countless times
before. This past weekend she and I
threw them up one more time. The
EC decided Monday that the
circumstances listed above warranted
no change and voted 7-4 to give
this committee yet another in their
long line of “fresh starts." This
same EC decided I had the best
past experience to restore credibility
to the operation of Fancy Dress.
Their decisions travel in circles,

I desperately need to stop writing

before it’s too lat

leading nowhere — like the current
SAB.

I am neither prepared nor willing
to take the authority for this project
when it is clear I will have my
hands tied from day one.’
Committing academic suicide and/or
withdrawing from school should not
be a part of student-run

entertainment, yet they have all

played a role in the not-so-distant’

past of FD chairmen. I wish the EC
a lot of luck as this operation
unfolds, and I hope the
administration doesn't use this
year’s FD red ink to write the
epitaph to student-run entertainment
at W&L.

My resignation as chairman of
1990 Fancy Dress Ball was

delivered Wednesday morning.

 
  
 

What do you think of sororities’ having
Homecoming representatives?

Nelson Teague, ‘90, Roanoke,
Va. — “I’m bent out of shape
because none of them asked me
to escort them."

Brooke Tinley, ‘91, Timonium,
Md. — “It’s too unconventional.
I think sororities are trying to
push themsleves to be too much
like fraternities."

Michael Higginbotham, ‘90,
Memphis, Tenn. — “I think
it’s a terrible idea."

Andrew Keller, ‘92, Rochester,
N.Y. — “I feel that on a carn-
pus that is becoming more and
more diverse every day, it is im-
portant that the sororities should
have Homecoming representa-
trves."

 

Mena McGowin, ‘91, Point
Clear, Al. — “I think it’s
great that we’re all unified and
having them."

Photos by Amanda Hughen

  

Melanie Brent, ‘90, Baltimore,
Md. - “I think there are better
things to think about.”

 

Scenes from
the Summit

Among the governors attending
the President’s Educational Sum-
mit were former presidential can-
didate Michael Dukakis of Massa-
chusetts (above left) and New

York’s Mario Cuomo (above
right). About 300 protestors
(right) attended the summit’s

closing ceremonies, along with
Bush and UVa President Robert
eO’Neill (far right). All photos by
Senior Phi White House Photog-
rapher Chris Leiphart.

   
 
  
 

Ideal Barber Shop

Welcome back to W&L
Come visit us
We also have a ladies haircutter

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 5, 1989

? _

BUSH

from page 1

dren differ, parents and their chil-
dren should be able to choose their
schools, so that “parents will be
full partners in the education of
their children.”

“Education is not a utility, not
something to be delegated. Educa-
tion is a way of life. And educa-
tional reform is an urgent responsi-

bility for every parent, every stu-
dent, every community,” Bush said.

Fourth, Bush said, “We must act
on what we discover. Weak perfor-
mance in the classroom or the prin-
cipal's office will no longer be tol-
erated. But neither will indifference
toward good educators.”

Finally, standards and expecta-
tions must be high, said Bush, even
those applied to the urban poor.
Their schools especially “must be a
beacon of excellence, a sanctuary
from violence, a model of good
character, sound values, exemplary

  
  
    
 
    

22 S. Main St.
Under lst American Bank

 

  
     
 

 
 

115 S. Main St., Lexington

R.E. Lee

er
%

ii

‘illvr

The R.E. Lee Christian Campus Ministry meets for worship,
dinner and Bible Study. This Sunday, Oct. 8 at 6 p.m. in the
Parish Library. This week’s discussion topic is “Dare To Be
Despised.” All Undergraduate Students Welcome.

New Indian Bedspreads Have Arrived.

CARAVANS

International Folk Art/Clothing/Jewelry

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-3500
Open Daily 10 AM - 8 PM/Sunday Noon - 6 PM

 
  

Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture

  

463-2742
Church

 

Résumés to slay your
competition!

    
  
  

"3 :Mou,ntain. C

Hi-Speed Copying ~ Desktop Publishing - FAX - Design Graphics
463-1712 ° 125 W. Nelson, Lexington ° FAX 463-6918 

The Tradition Continues
at

KELLY’S CORNER

on Rt. 60, 2.5 miles West of Lexington

For All Your Homecoming Needs

  

Welcome back

 

   
 

alumni!

 

   
   
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
 

SPRING BREAK 1990

Individual or student organization
needed to promote our Spring Break
Trips. Earn money, free trips and
valuable work experience. Apply
Now! Call Inter—Campus programs 1-
800-327-6013

 

St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church

Pro-Life Film
“THE SILENT SCREAM"

About fetal development
and abortion

   
  
    
 

Thursday, Oct. 5
8 p.m. in the Church Basement

Mass Schedule
Sat., Oct. 7, 5:00 p.m.
Sun., Oct. 8, 8:00 a.m. & 10:30 am.

 

Halloween Delights.
Disguises.
Cards and Candy.

& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington

Open daily 10 AM - 8 PM

    
  

tut Party T-Shirts made to order!
it One-of-a-Kind Shirts to
Say What Xgu Think!
it EsteIle's Grill
Commemorative Shirts!
It Got a Great Idea for a T-Shirt?

    
  
  
   
    
  
 

  

COME IN TO:

Big Dog Graphics
We've moved to 17 1/2 Randolph
under Hunter 8; Huntress.

 
 

Call 463-2618

 

 

   
 
   
    

 

15 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

ethics,” he said. “Let no child in
America be forgotten or forsaken.”
In brief remarks at the summit's
closing ceremony Thursday after-
noon, the president, using UVa’s
Rotunda as a backdrop, ran down
what he saw as the highlights of “a
very successful conference.”
Referring to the joint statement
issued by the president and the gov-
emors, Bush touched on topics he
had mentioned in his morning ad-
dress and also suggested the federal
government will continue and per-
haps expand its support of Head
Start and other pre-school programs.
Bush also promised his commit-
ment to education would not end
when he left Charlottesville. “This
has been historic, and I pledge to
you my determination 1.0 follow
up,” he said.
Notes
- As the nation's governors were

     
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

introduced Thursday morning prior
to the president's speech in Univer-
sity Hall, two executives seemed to
receive the greatest applause — host
Gerald Baliles and Massachusetts’
Michael Dukakis. Dukakis and New
York’s Mario Cuomo commanded
\the greatest amount of media atten-
tion.
- Diversity and irreverence were
the story about 200 yards down
UVa’s Front Lawn from the presi-
dent's podium, where more than 300
protestors lined up behind wire
fence. Their chants, barely audible
where Bush was speaking, included
“Racist, sexist, anti—gay, President
Bush, go awayl" and “Less ﬁll-
ing — Tastes great!” Signs held up
by the crowd supported ideas as
diverse as privatizing education, the
Equal Rights Amendment and victo-
ry for the Sandinista government
over rebels in Nicarggua.

“We” Wire Flowers World Wide

Flowers Fresh and Dried For All Occasions

   
   

  

GOLDEN
“CORRAL

.. . .. .. . .. .. . 2‘
 3.  xiv 2 3. ., .' .. .- 9*
. ,.

Ope‘ii7Mori.'-Thiirs. ll a.m.? io;3.m.”" 

Fri. &Sat. 11 a.m. — ll p.m.

      
       
   
     
   
    

 

Announces

2 CD’s & Cassettes

* 100’s In Stock

* All Stock $1.00 or more below Sug. Retail Price

* Orders Made Twice Weekly

* Special Orders Receive Prompt
Attention and are further reduced

* Satisfaction Guaranteed

Call 463-7439 For Details

Corsages
Party Arrangements

.1 i. .-(iv,-¢
 ».

Welcome Alumni

See Us For Complete Selection
Of
W&L Tees, Sweats & Hats

First Team Sports

115 W. Nelson St.

Rockbridge Vido

114 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA

Buy a Salad Bar
 Meal for $3.9
Steak Dinner

Only 99°!

  

    
   

 
   
    
  

 
  
  
  

  

FTD
MC VISA AM EX

(703) 463-6080

 

  
   

or 1-9 

 

‘V

I .

 

 

. ,..’.:;.'.'..t I.» -or -~ -»<
I

 

.ﬂ\“

  

!

5

' By Joel Smith
' Staff Reporter

4

A hike up House Mountain with
., Washigton and Lee President John
Wilson and a white-water rafting
4 trip on one of the most challenging
‘ rivers in the East are just two of
the many upcoming activities
. planned by the W&L Outing Club
this fall.
‘ The Outing Club will offer
, W&L students more activities this
‘year than ever before, and faculty
‘ sponsor Kirk Follo said he invites
students to “find out what they are
interested in and come see what we
t have to offer." -
1988 marked the first year that a
" faculty member has been involved
, with the club, and Follo’s addition
has allowed the club to expand its
“ offering of programs and expedi-
., tions.
Follo said the Outing Club is
' not a club in the sense that students
, join and pay membership dues, but
instead is an organization that plans
4 trips and activities and also provides
equipment for students who wish to
“ do things on their own. The club's
. equipment room, located in Room
109 of Baker Dormitory, has tents,
sleeping bags, stoves, backpacks,

V

 

canoes, kayaks, rock-climbing equip-
ment and spelunking equipment
available for students to borrow.
Students may also rent canoes for a
small fee.

According to Follo, the club is
divided into a number of special
interest sections, including paddling,
ﬂy fishing, hiking and backpacking,
rock climbing, biking (both moun-
tain and road racing) and environ-
mental sections.

“There is a strong corps of stu-
dents active in each section,” Follo
said, adding that there are also stu-
dents who “come and go.”

On Wednesday, the club is
sponsoring a hike up House Moun-
tain with Wilson, a trip that will be
“a great chance for students‘ to get
to know him outside of the formal
setting of W&L," Follo said. The
group will depart at 2 p.m. from the
Outing Club office, and interested
students should sign up on the bul-
letin board outside of the club’s
equipment room.

The club also has an exciting
expedition planned for Oct. 13-15,
when students will travel to the
Mount Rogers National Recreation
Area and hike a series of trails, in-
cluding an extensive section of the
Appalachian Trail. Backpackers will

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open  10-5

31 s.Main s¢., Lexington

463-3355

The Ring-tum Phi, October 5, 1989

.Wi|son takes a hike

trek through alpine ‘meadows and
mature forests on and around Mount
Rogers, which is the highest peak in
Virginia. Most of the hiking should
be easy to moderate in difficulty,
Follo said. students should wear
sturdy shoes and come prepared for
wet and/or cold weather, he said.
Interested students should contact
Gray Rand.

The club’s paddling section has
scheduled a white-water rafting trip
down the Gauley River, and stu-
dents interested in this excursion
should contact Mark Lubkowitz. Ac-
cording to Follo, the rafting trips
are led by an experienced outfitter,
and the club simply provides trans-
portation to the river.

In addition to special trips, the
club’s sections offer regular instruc-
tion in canoeing, kayaking, ﬂy fish-
ing, proper use of camping equip-
ment and backpacking skills. In con-
junction with the W&L biology de-
partment, the club offers instruction
in plant and insect identification and
sponsors occasional “ecology
walks.” Students active in the bik-
ing section take regular rides, while
students in the paddling section
provide kayaking instruction every
Tuesday and Thursday nights from
6-8 in the old pool in Doremus
Gym.

Notices advertising all Outing
Club activities are posted regularly
on the club's colonnade bulletin
board outside of Payne Hall, on the
bulletin board in Baker Donn and in
The Ring-rum Phi.‘-

GENERAL NOTES

5

Fulbrights

The 1990-91 competition for
Fulbright Grants for study
abroad is still accepting applica-
tions. Most grants provide
round-trip application, tuition and
other expenses for one school
year. Applicants must be U.S.
citizens and hold a , bachelor’s
degree before the grant begins.
Proficiency in a foreign language
is recommended. For more infor-
mation. see Prof. Bruce Herrick
in Room 212 of the Commerce

School. Application deadline is
Oct. 16.

Politics Flick

The Deﬁant Ones (1958; di-
rector- Stanley Kramer) runs at
7 p.m., tonight in Reid 203.
This taut commentary on the
paradoxical role of social cleav-
age in politics combines
extraordinary performances, Os-
car-winning cinematography, un-
forgettable use of symbolism in
perhaps Kramer's best-directed
work. For further details, contact
Prof. McCaughn'n (ext. 8624).

Hurricane Hugo

Tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 4
p.m. at Kroger's parking lot
there will be a truck collecting
items for the victirris of Hur-
ricane Hugo. Much needed iterris
include: cleaning supplies, build-
ing materials, fuel containers,
non-perishable foods, baby sup-
plies, blankets, linens, and much
more. A volunteer to drive the
truck is also needed. Anyone in-
terested please contact Mirabai
McLeod (463-1760).

Outing club

Enjoy three days and two
nights in Virginia's high country,
in Mount Rogers National Recre-
ation Area. Oct. l3-15 we'll
hike a series of trails, including
an extensive section of the Ap-
palachian Trail. Hiking is mostly
easy to moderate in difficulty.
Wear sturdy boots, and come
prepared for cold and/or wet
weather. Transportation is pro-
vided. Sign up well in advance
at Baker 109. For more informa-
tion call Gray Rand (463-4492).

Climb House Mountain with

President Wilson and members
of the Outing Club, and enjoy
the time of changing leaves. We
will meet at Baker 106 at 2 p.m.
on Wednesday, Oct. 11 and re-
turn by 6:30 p.m. Wear sturdy
shoes; bring along rain protec-
tion, water, and a snack. Sign up
in advance outside Baker 109.

There will be a white water
rafting trip on the Upper Gauley
on Oct. 11. Come raft one of
the most challenging rivers in
the eastern U.S. For details call
Mark (463-7590).

Freshman

Petitions for Freshman Presi-
dent—Student Conduct Committee
member, Vice president-Student
Cori uct Committee, and Execu-
tive Committee member are now
available in Carol Calkins‘
office. They are due at a manda-
tory meeting in the Executive
Committee room at 6 p.m. on
Wednesday, Oct. 11. A cand-
idate forum will be held at 7
p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 12 in
Lee Chapel. The elections will
be held on Monday, Oct. 16. A
run-off, if necessary, will be
held Thursday, Oct. 19.

Tie Phi

 

Standard 10% Discount
‘ ‘With Student I.D.

 

5092

Lexington Lighting

Welcome Back Students.’
We have Study Lamps, Table Lamps, and Floor Lamps.
Come by!

 
    
   

26 South Main Street
Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.
Lexington, Va. 24450-2523
(703) 463-9338

 
 
  

I
' 136 Varner Lane
t Directly behind Leggett’s
 463-3975
1 We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell
‘ » Open Evenings
« Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.
4,
I -
cludiotronics

VlRGlNlA'S STEREO SPECIALIST

DENON ALPINE

ADCOM BOSTON

B&O CWD

KEF SONANCE

SIGNET B&K

KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

— ALL compousms PRE-TESTED

. auvea PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SEFMCE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

' v 

  
  
  
  
    
  
 

     
  

G’s
Hairstylist

. Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington», Va. 24450

REWARD.

nan: uut-ail
nun fII\Il'I

OPPORTUNITY.
CHALLENGE...

Gather Abundant Values
During

l8zB FALL SALE
J0 «@ Woe 55M»

23 West Washington St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-3432

“Witt

-   

_=_

Air Force Officer Training School can be the start of a challenging
and rewarding career for you. When you graduate, you'll be a com-
missioned officer in the Air Force. You can apply your management
skills and leadership techniques in a stimulating environment and
have opportunity for advancement. Find our how you can put your
college degree to work for you and your country. AIM HIGH. Contact
your Air Force recruiter today. Call

USAF OFFICER PLACEMENT

     

Arway Kirby

    
       
    

Snack Bar Open 10-4 for Homecoming

, Special ofthe Month — Nights Only
Chicken or Tuna Salad Plate - $1. 79 or 1-3/4 pts.

800-423-USAF

  
 
 

  
 

  
   
 
   

  
   

OPEN FOR
HOMECOMINGI

10 a.m.-4 p.m.

Your Friends At
The W&L Bookstore

    

     
 

  

 

-A‘

New Arrivals Every Day!!

Mexican Ponchos, Cotton Sweaters, Shawls & Blankets,

”Baha Shirts", Indian Print T's, Tie Dye Chiffon Scarves,
World Wildlife Federation "Earth Day 1990" T-Shirts.

16North Main St./Lexington, VA
703-464-1800

    

W&L Snack Bar

WELCOME BACK ALUMNI

.;eeea.raeeeoeev/xr - - - ~ - - - -- ‘

i Stop-In Food Stores

Invites students to visit our 3 Lexington

Iocaﬂonsz

\ 113 N. Main
800 N. Main
Rt. 60 West

ﬂ..'ﬂ' .ﬂ

RT. 5, BOX 379
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

..--—orp-

    
  
   
  

-,---- oo... ..

BOBBY BEFIKSTRESSER

LEE ll!

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478

1-800-768-LEHl

DOUGLAS W. TURRELL

W&L Class of ’87
Welcomes Back Alumni
For Homecoming Weekend

SERVICE

. .

Students and Faculty, save time, hassle
and money, see me at
COURTESY FORD MERCURY
in Buena Vista to satisfy your automotive needs.

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista
261-2112

or call me at home
in Lexington
463-1952

‘.

Wrapped

Half Price ..

Cash
and
Carry

 

Autumn Flowers
\ ,

‘Florist to the llomcstczid
103 N. Jefferson

C":'7. Lexington. Va. 24450
L_______

-(703) 463-9841

a-.

 

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The men’s soccer team soundly
defeated a pair of Old Dominion
Athletic Conference rivals this week
at Liberty Hall Field.

Playing in their first two
conference games of the season, the
Generals downed Roanoke 4-1 on
Saturday, and beat Hampden—Sydney
2-0 yesterday.

On Saturday the Generals’ four
goals were scored by three
freshmen. Freshman Mike
Mitchem, who has scored four goals
and dished out four assists in the
last four games, netted two goals,
while classmates Mike Hill and
Todd Walker each scored their first
collegiate goals.

Senior Patrick Brown, who has
not directly figured in the scoring
since the Generals’ second game,
registered three assists on Saturday
and scored a goal yesterday against
Harnpden-Sydney.

Brown now leads the ODAC in

  SPORTS
Soccer kicks way to tough ODAC w

with 11 points, is in second place.

Roanoke, the defending ODAC
champions, came to Lexington on a
gray and drizzly Saturday afternoon
with a 3-4 record.

W&L picked up momentum with
two goals in the latter part of the
first half. The Generals took a 1-0
lead at 9:05 when Brown assisted
Hill, who sent the ball past a prone
Maroon goalie.

Just over five rriiniites later
W&L was awarded a penalty kick
after a Roanoke defenseman used
his hands to stop a shot. Mitchem
took the free kick and delivered a
high, right-footed shot inside the left
post to give the Generals a 2-0
halftime advantage.

In the second half W&L closed
the door on Roanoke with their
third goal at 39:20. Freshman
sweeper Greg Williams tapped a
direct kick from midfield to Brown,
who crossed the ball deep into the
left side of the penalty box.
Mitchem collected the pass with his
chest and directed the ball to the
lower right comer of the net.

scoring with 13 points. Mitchem,

 

The Ring-tum

Yesterday, W&L improved its
record to 4-4 against visiting
Hampden—Sydney (5-4, 2-2 in the
ODAC). The Tigers were ranked
tenth in the South Region of
Division III.

The game was scoreless until
Brown trapped a deflected ball in
the penalty box and launched a shot
amid a pack of Tigers into the back
of the net at 7:51.

Although Harnpden-Sydney only
managed to get off two first half
shots, W&L was fortunate to have a
1-0 lead at intermission. Many of
the Tigers’ would—be shots were
well wide of the net and they blew
their two breakaway opportunities
by opting to shoot around a
charging Jon Bull, who has emerged
as the Generals starting goalie,
instead of dribbling around him.

The Generals took a 2-0 lead 21
minutes into the second half.
Mitchem sent a crossing pass from
the left side to the front of the net.

The all slid under Anderson Sale,
the igers’ freshman keeper, and
onto the foot of sophomore Chris

Cross country
runs through

Norfolk State

By Amy‘-Packard
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men's

and women's cross country teams
pulled off a double victory last
weekend in a meet against Norfolk
' State and Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rival Roanoke College
last weekend in Norfolk.

The men got an individual

victory out of sophomore Charles
Edwards, who came in with a time
of 26:48. Good team balance pulled
the team through for the victory, as
a pack of five W&L runners came
in fifth through ninth. Freshman
Scott Fowler led the pack with a
time of 27:53, a personal record.
The women on the whole
enjoyed the success of not only
beating Division II Norfolk State

 

SHOOTING SUPPLIES J
CLAY PIGEONS    
AMMUNl'l'lON-

eiiUNTu    

18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Virginia .24450

463-1800
“Look For The White Horse ”

iiwr

03098-t79t7/U_015U!X9’l/188118 U0i3|9N1S9/\A Let

F...

but doing so for the first time in
W&L history.

The individual achievements

which were responsible for this
unprecedented victory proved to be

Sophomore Mena McGowin’s 18 kills led the Generals to an ODAC win I“ as S“"”i‘i“g'

over Lynchburg. W&L file photo by W. Patrick Hinely. D Please See CC page 7

senvll
LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 SOUTH MAIN ST./LEXINGTON, VA 24450 /463-2242

Client Service Representatives

NEW FIRM IS MOVING INTO
THE LEXINGTON AREA.

  

Phl, October 5, 1989

Miyamoto, who drilled it into an ‘

open net from two feet away.

At 21:42 W&L was denied a
chance to increase its lead. Senior
Rick Silva’s penalty shot was
deflected by Sale, who dove to his
left and slapped the ball away.

Hampden—Sydney's best offensive
opportunity of the half came at
13:25, when they were awarded an
indirect kick inside the penalty box.
Yet, they were unable to convert as
the ball sailed harrnlessly over the
crossbar.

Bull, in his third straight start in
goal, gained his second shutout of
the season, and made five saves.
Pringle played for the final 12
minutes and picked up a save.

With the win, the Generals

evened their record on the season at 5

4-4 and moved to 2-0 in conference
play.

The Generals’ next game is
against Mary Washington this
Saturday at 3 at Liberty Hall Field.

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

For a while last Saturday, it
looked like the armual Washington
and Lee-Randolph-Macon football
game was going to be the typical
nail-biter that Generals faithful have
come to expect between the teams.

That illusion lasted for the better
part of the first quarter at Day Field
in Ashland.

Then, the Generals’ record
setting quarterback went to work.
On W&L’s second possession,
senior Phillip Sampson went to the
air. His first pass, to junior split end
Craig Irons, gained 13 yards and a
first down. His second pass, also to
Irons, was good for 40 yards deep
into Yellow Jacket territory. Irons
was one step from turning the big
gainer into a 65-yard touchdown,
but he was caught by the last man
who had a shot at the 20 yard line.

This drive stalled as the
Generals elected to go for a first
down on fourth and 10 instead of
kicking a field goal. Sampson's pass
intended for Irons was just

‘in.

 

1. Work with some of the largest organizations in the

country representing their
2. Flexible hours.

3. Excellent pay with opportunities for advancement.
4. Limited positions available.

Call Bob Smith at
(703) 433-231 1

toll free at 1-800-468-4720, ext. JOB

 

PROPER ATTIREW
FOR THE
W&L ALUMNUS

product or service.

 
  
  

 
  
  

   
 

Freshman Winthro
College. W&L file

4&7’

p Allen pushes u

W&L stings Yellow Jackets;
in change of tradition ‘

overthrown at the goal line, and the
inevitable was avoided by R-MC.

For the time being.

The Generals defense forced the
Yellow Jackets to kick after just
three plays, and sophomore
defensive end/punt returner Scott
Williamson got the Generals moving
on the return.

Junior tailback Mason Pope kept
the Yellow Jackets reeling with a
21-yard run, and Sampson followed
that with «a 26-yard completion to
junior slot back Carl Gilbert that
gave the Generals first down and
goal at the R—MC 10.

After two Pope carries put the
ball at the four, Sampson rolled
right and found senior tight end
Bob Martin all alone in the end
zone for a touchdown and a 6-0
W&L lead. Junior Carter Quayle’s
extra point kick was blocked.

On the first drive of the second
quarter, set up by another
Williamson punt return, this one
covering 22 yards, the Generals got

started on the ground behind senior
Russell Crosby and Pope. The duo

   
    

"

.4‘

pfield in W&L's 4-1 win over Roanoke '
photo by W. Patrick Hinely. '

I

t
gained 17 yards on four carrie to

set the stage for Sampson and the}
receivers. Sampson found Gilber

open down the left sideline for a
gain of 30 yards down to the R-MC!
20.

After an intentional grounding‘
call backed them up five yards,’
Sampson and Irons hooked up for a,
touchdown. Irons broke in front of
two defensive backs on a post‘
pattern hauled in the pass while,
diving across the goal line. The "
two-point conversion failed, and the;
score stood at 12-0. -

On second down, R-MC.
quarterback Scott Kirby overthrewt
his intended receiver at the W&L
30, and senior comerback Bobby’
Rimnier intercepted the pass. On thet
next play, Sampson threw what
appeared to be a harmless screen’
pass to Pope on the right sideline. I

Pope turned the harmless screen
into a 70-yard jaunt into the end’
zone as the junior outran /e/veryone;
down the sideline for a touchdown.

Ci Please see POPE page 7

Kappa Kappa Gamma

Congratulates and Welcomes
its new pledges to the
Zeta Tau Chapter.’

Jennie Brent
Ashley Grey
Fiona Harkess
Ashley Tredick

Jennifer Burns
Melissa Meyer
Liz Smith

Ann Shaughnessy

 

1((i=i=iLiATED CEUNSELING /(H/ERAPISTS

 related to alcohol or

eating habits may signal a need for change. When your behavior ’*
creates distress it may be time for professional help. Sometimes

you need more than a friend.

Sometimes you need

Susan M. Sisler, LPC
CALL 703-463-3305

 

drug use, sexual behavior, or I

more than a friend. J
6 East Washington Street I

Lexington, VA 24450 t

  

_ _ Kappa
00‘ 7/1/21 « M0,!) 4‘-

   

Needlework Specially Shop
I l East Washington Street
Lexington. Virginia 24450

Kappa Alpha Theta, W&L &
Many Virginia Colleges

Call 463-1006

 

Learn To Knitl - 

Sign up now for knitting classes 3
Classes begin Oct. 17 & 19

Cross Stitch Kits * I

Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega , “

 

  

.-  .. ’  "  -~'

214 South Main Street, Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9232
COPIES, 8 CENTS

Stationery - Party Fliers
Formal & Informal Invitations - Newsletters

Résumés - Post cards -

   

7'3:-: «Kr/'£':""I"“"

 H. ,.

WELCOME TO.
HOME COMING 1989

Q£M~ 

Ogaljty Ogick Driiit, Ink.

for all student printing needs

A

 
   
  
   
  
    
   
   
   
 
    
      
  
   
       
   
       
         
         
    
   
   
   
    
   
    
   
      
    
  
    
  
     
     
   
    
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
      
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  

V

The Ring-tum Phi, October 5, 1989

 

 

POPE Scores don’t reflect
from page 6 f p
R-MC head coach Jim Blackburn Defensively, Williamson turned   e  h  G e n e  I S p e  r m

then made a change. He inserted in an outstanding performance. The

starting wide receiver Scott sophomore registered 16 tackles, had By John Dukes ,. .
Brandewiede at quarterback in place four uarterback sacks, caused one .4! , ‘K-.._ .

of Kirby. On his first series, fumblg and returned two punts for Staff Reporter (1):? gftigﬁﬂng   i ‘'"‘Q,_- at

Brandewiede was ‘ given a rude 27 yards. Classmate Greg Kiehl also The‘ Washin ton and Lee P F

reception by Williamson, who turned in a fine performancevat nose g The

sacked the new signal-caller for a
loss of 15 yards on third down,
forcing a punt.

Martin’s 12-yard rettun gave
W&L the ball at the R-MC 27, but
the Generals fumbled it away.
Brandewiede, still reeling from
Williamson's hit, immediately
returned the favor, being intercepted
by freshman linebacker Paul Mallos
at the R-MC 46.

Sampson promptly hit Gilbert for
a 28-yard gain on the left sideline,
and Pope kept the offense rolling,
rambling 18 yards off right tackle
for a touchdown and a 26-0 W&L
lead.

The Generals defense gave the
offense one last opportunity to get
on the board again when senior
linebacker_ Mike Pack intercepted
Brandewiede, but the Generals ran
out the clock, going into the locker

room up 26-0.
In the second half, after a
scoreless third quarter, W&L

increased its lead to 33-0 on Pope's
third touchdown of the day, this one
coming on a 2-yard run.

One black mark for the Generals
on the day was injuries. Senior
guard Rich Poli injured his knee
and is probably out for the rest of
the season, as is sophomore
linebacker Jon Omdorff, who
injured a shoulder.

guard, registering eight tackles, five
quarterback pressures and two sacks.

Next up for the 2-2, 1-1
Generals is Maryville College in
W&L’s homecoming game.

Game time is set for 2:00 on
Wilson Field. Catch all the action
on the W&L Sports Network:
WLUR-FM and WREL-AM. Last

year, the Generals shut out the
Scots 20-0.

Washington andLee  X) 0 7 “ 33
Randolph-Macon 0 0 0 3 " 3

W&L-Martin 4 pass from Sampson (53
blocked) _
W&L-Irons 5 pass from Sampson (pass fatlefl)
W&L-Pope 70 pass from Sampsm (Quayle kick)
W&L-Pope 17 run (Quayle kick)

W&L-Pope 2 run (Quayle kick) , ,
R-MC-Puccinelli 22 pass from Smith (Hlw 1”“
from Smith)

Individual Rushing
W&L-Pope 28 carries-126 yards, Sohonage 8-12.
Crosby 5-12, Gilbert 2-(-3), Sampson 4-(-32).
Smythe 1-(-4). R-MC-Palmgxven 1443, Stefanko
9-34, Hamlett 8-21, Brandewiede 8-(-23). K35)’

‘ 3-6, Ashby 1-3, Smith 54.

Individual Passing
W&L-Sampson 17 completions-23 attempts-0
intcrcep iuns-311 yards, Smythe 3-4-0-29.. R-MC-
Kirby 1-6-l-7, Brandewiede 1-4-2-9, Smith 7-10-
l-106.

Individual Receiving ‘
W&L-Irons 6 catches-106 yards, Gilbert 5-101.
Pope 2-76, Martin 2-8. Aoebal 2-17. Hodges 1-
22. Suiters 1-12. cxosby 1-(-2). R-MC-Holmes 2-
47, Puccinelli 2-31, Hite l-7, Stefanko l-9, Don-
ovan 1-7, Ashby 1-9, Williams 1'11

 

CC

from page 6

Junior Cecily Tynan, the team’s
captain, broke the school record by
twenty-nine seconds when she took
first place in the meet with a time

~ of 19:09.

“The runners at Norfolk State
are track runners and Cecily told me
she was worried throughout the race
that the woman closest behind her

. would catch up and pull ahead near

the course's end,” said head coach

, Jim Phemister,

Finishing in the top seven were
juniors Heather Jenkins, Pat Lopes,
and Shawn Wert. Six_ out of the
eight W&L runners scored personal
best times, and everyone improved
her time from last week’s meet by
at least one minute.

ﬁfe-—..__

,LEXlNGTON

Aerobics 0 Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

“Norfolk State was the next
team for us to beat,” said
Phemister. “That is, they were in
our sights because we had come
close to them before but had never
actually won.”

Phemister was hoping to gain

insight to the team’s chances in:
this

upcoming competitions after
past meet. Obviously, he is very
encouraged by the results.

Next Saturday, both _W&L
squads will be A at home.
women, 2-1, will run against ODAC
foes Lynchburg and Mary Baldwin
at 11 a.m. The men, 3-1, will

square off against ODAC rival.

Lynchburg and Catholic.

‘The-

.ooooo6ooooooo

Front 111:1;-].

volleyball team won its first outing
in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference competition last week
over Lynchburg College.

After losing the opening game of

the match, 15-11, the Generals
rallied behind strong play from
sophomores Marcy Brown and

Mena McGowin to win the next
three games by scores of 15-7, 15-
12, and 17-15. Brown had a leading
.353 attack percentage in the victory
while McGowin registered 18 kills.
Freshman Leslie Hess and
junior Lisa Jay had good
performances last week as Hess _led
the team with 34 digs, and Jay
turned in a tearn-leading 13 service
aces.
The Generals struggled in other
competition last week with losses to

Shenandoah 15-11, 15-5, Mary
Washington 15-7, 15-10, and
Ferrum 15-12, 15-3. Overall, the
Generals are now 2-5, 1-0 in
conference play.

Head coach Susan Dittrnan

partially attributed these losses to
illness of some of the Generals’ key
players last week.

Said Dittman, “We’ve had a
hard time coming together after
losing three starting seniors from
last year. The team has performed
well enough up until this past week,
and now, the loss of senior
leadership seems to be a factor.”

The team’s goals for the
remainder of the season will be
directed towards good performances
in ODAC competition, said Dittrnan.

As of press time, the scorelof
the Generals’ game at Bridgewater
on Wednesday night had not come
in.

The Generals’ will be in action
on Thursday at Mary Baldwin, and
over the weekend at the Washington
College Toumament.

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
Next week:

The Fling-tum Phi

Athlete-of-the-Month

net
L.

Welcome Back Alumni

We have a complete line for all your weekend needs. We carry a
full line of beverages, cheeses, and bottled waters. We have ice,
charcoal and paper products for your tailgate parties. Have a great

weekend!

Serving the W&L Community for over 35 years.

Alvin Emttin
Welcome W&L Alumni

Sero shirts, Woolrich, IZOD and Deans
sweaters, Woolrich outerwear, dress corduroys,
‘khead khakis, Bass, Walkover, Clark & Top-
sider shoes. After-Six Formal Wear - Fancy
cummerbund and tie sets. Rugby shirts — W&L
belts, ties and T—shirts.

Ceramic gifts for sale

Rack of year-round and summer suits

Reduced 20%

102 W. Washington St.

MasterCard

463-5383

Choice

Student Charge

 

Washington and Lee
women's soccer team continued to
play at a level above last year,
which is where head coach Jan
Hathom wants her team to be. But
despite strong play, the Generals
came out of last week with just a
tie to show for their efforts.

Although the Generals suffered a
3-0 loss to Old Dominion Athletic
Conference opponent Roanoke and
battled North Carolina Wesleyan to
a 0-0 tie, the scores were not
indicative of their play.

Playing in Salem last Friday
against Roanoke, the Generals got
off to a slow start. Roanoke scored
three times in the first thirty-five
minutes of play before W&L put
things together, but were unable to
dent the Maroons' defense.

Said Hathom, “After the first
thirty minutes, we got in the game
and shut them down. Sarah Allen [a
senior] had an amazing game — she
played great.”

Although the Generals battled
North Carolina Wesleyan to a tie,
the Generals felt they had outplayed
the Bishops and won every facet of
the game, except the score.

According the Hathom, her team
played “the best soccer we have
ever played.” W&L’s only problem
was that they couldn’t dent the
scoreboard. The Generals out-shot
N.C. Wesleyan 35-22.

The Generals, 2-4-2, will next
take to the ﬁeld on Saturday at
11:30 am. W&L will entertain
ODAC foe Randolph—Macon
Woman’s College, a team that
defeated the Generals earlier this
year.

' NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

0 Nationwide is on your side

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

Agent

203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA

Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

Artists in Cahoots

('oopcr.imc (i.lll\‘T} 0| l.l)L'\ll "\l'l|~[\ (Q (‘mllx Pcuplc
Handcrafted silver and

    
  

7j\--C,-‘fl porcelain jewelry, pot-
§,2. tery, silk scarves,
3 1“ sculpture, woodwork,
,y.(‘,‘/I ,‘.;\,,tV glass, paintings and
‘;r zyii ’ photographsoflocal

 

‘ landscapes, lexington

":7 ',§‘,j‘,‘3;',‘;.‘_"‘5‘"‘“"""‘*““"’ 103 N. Jefferson E
 , _ _ Lexington, Va. 24450
Corner of W|a:::'r:$:)>: & Main Sts. _( ) 41
Open 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Mon.-Sat.
Visa 8. Master Card accepted
LEXINGTON
Giant - Trek - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Cannondale Ladies’

Freshman Ginny Dallum moves past a North Carolina Wesleyan
defender. W&L file photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

 

Bridestone Mountain Bikes 10% off Through October

130 S. Main St.

463-7969

The Jefferson
Welcomes
W&L Alumni

We offer a distinctive

Silks, Gifts and Antiques.

selection of:
Fresh Flowers,

 

Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

looking tor
a new home?
Ask a trientl.

©1989 Century 21 Real l-Istatc Corporation as trustee for the

 

CENTURY 21” professionals
nationwide help more peo-
ple find thc perfect home
than any other real estate
sales organization. When
you’re ready to buy a home,
call :1 member of the team
that leads.

 

FOG0 REAL ESTTE

Lexington
463-1801

 

Put your trust
in Number One.

NAF. ® and "" trademarks of Ccitlury 21 Real Estate Corporatimi

Equal Housing ()pport1lnlly (3

EACH OFFICE IS INDEPENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED.



...__._.. ___._.z

23 N. Main St. (703) 463-5988
0
fine Pzmeine

IMIIIKISPIIESIIIEK

“Over 50 year: 0! Quality Incl‘
sums o sea moo - cnicxeu
Glen 0 ITALIAN srs4:m:ri_es
o uaamurnnw:

us-3033

Onulcnhlduv p

S‘0t lT.H.{ R-N
guard “

32013 IIIIIH IIKIKVA.

         
     

 
  

University

1st Floor Reid Hall
Come to your Printing Center for:

- FLYERS 8. POSTERS -
- Copying & printing -
- Programs -
- Newsletters -

HINTING C NT

463-8448

Custom RESUMES & letters
Transparencies

Brochures & Booklets
Scanning

The Printing Center has added a Macintosh llx, Scanner, and.Laser-
Writer II to its service. The Macintosh will read MS-DOS disks. We can

add scanned images to add to your posters or tlyers. Stop by and pick

up a pamphlet about this equlpment's capabilities.

   

DEAVERS ALLEY
BUSINESS SERVICES
Our Typing

is _
Word Perfect

 

8:00 A.M. - 5:00 PM.
Evenings and Weekends by Appointment

203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9455

 

EBACK PAGE

 

The Ring-tum Phl, October 5, 1989

By Lee Fleming
Staff Reporter

Mountain Bicycles, the newest
addition to the world of cycling, are
rolling strong in Rockbridge County.

The mountain bicycle combines
a lightweight design and multiple
gears with an upright sitting posi-
tion.

“The mountain bike owner en-
joys tlie best of both worlds,” said
Andy Hunter, 14-year owner of the
Lexington Bicycle Shop. “It com-
bines an ease of riding with an ease
of operation.”

Hunter said the mountain bicycle
traces its history back to the late
1970's when a group of friends in
northern California spent their lei-
sure time riding their motorcycles
on mountain trails. These trails,
however, were eventually closed to
motorized traffic.

Rather than completely abandon
their hobby, the friends adapted. In-
stead of motorcycles, they began

using heavyweight bicycles on their
mountain rides.

“From there, it became just a
matter of one—upmanship,” said
Hunter. “Everyone would improve
his bike. One guy would get better
brakes, then another guy would get
better tires, et cetera. Eventually,
from this, the modern mountain bike
sprang.”

In 1978, the first ten mountain
bicycles for retail sale were built by
a California bicycle maker named
Joe Breeze. All sold quickly and
more were soon requested.

By 1982, Ross Bicycles became
the first manufacturer to come out
with a line of ‘mountain bikes.’
Others soon followed.

Today, Hunter says, all of the
major bicycle manufacturers have at
least 3 models of mountain bicycles
on the market.

Hunter says that mountain bicy-
cles have accounted for about forty
percent of his business over the last
year. Of those customers, he says,

Super-X Drugs

Super-X Saline Solution
1602. -only 99¢

College Shopping Square

463-7126

Plan to meet your friends at

The Palms

Serving Lunch & Dinner Daily
Saturday & Sunday Brunch 12-3

THE

.....~.
‘ it

DO IT

iillielinigliiii Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

in October... Watch for our new bar
and lounge with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of

Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

' Mountain bikes are rolling on the Hill

most fall into the 15-30 year-old
age bracket.

“Those are the people who want
to ride on a variety of terrains on a
bike that's forgiving of mistakes,”
said Hunter. “On a mountain bike,
you don’t need sharp skills to cruise
down House Mountain, or to plow

through a muddy field."

Tee Teague, a Washington and
Lee senior from Roanoke, agrees.

“I used to have a 10-speed, but
it was too boring. My mountain
bike lets me see more of Lexington.
It’s more fun riding through the
woods.”

On the more serious side, Teague
and four other W&L students will
participate this Sunday in the Fall
Foliage Classic, a 20K mountain bi-
cycle race in Slatey Fork, W. Va.,
near Snowshoe.

Despite its name, however, the
mountain bicycle is still primarily
used for getting around.

“The name ‘mountain bike’ re
fleets origin and capabilities more

BELTS
MORE

New Washington & Lee Crest
And Colonnade Belts
Available Only

The College Town Shop

lll W. Nelson St.

W&L Weekly Calendar ’

 

V
October 6 to October 14 ‘
ERIDAX._Q_CIQIl.ER.£ V
H ' Weekend. ‘ .
l2:l0 p.m. JOHN RANDOLPH TUCKER LECTURE: "Race Regulations, Economic Libcr‘ties._:intl the
Police Power," Richard A. Epstein, James Parker Hall Professor of Law, University of I
Chicago Law School. Moot Courtroom. Lewis Hall. Public invited.
3 p.m. MEN'S TENNIS: W&L Fall Classic: W&L, Davidson, J.M.U.. and Ohio. Varsity Courts. ,
5 pm, Opening Reception for exhibit, "Parallel Letters--Parallel Lives: The Correspondence of Lee
and Jackson." Boatwright Room, University Library. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Washington College Toumzitncnt. V
  y
Homecoming.
9 a.m. - MEN'S TENNIS: W&L Fall Classic. Varsity Couns.
IO a.m. CONCERT: W&L Choral Ensembles, JubiLec. Southern Comfort. Lec Chapel. Public invited, P‘
I I am. WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: Generals vs. Lynehburg College! Mary Baldwin. 1
11:30 am. WOMEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Randolph-M" on Woman's College. Liberty Hall Field. ’
Noon MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: Generals vs. Catholic University/Lynchburg College.
2 pm. FOOTBALL: Gcncrals vs. Maryville College. Wilson Field.
3 pm. MEN'S SOCCER: Gcncrals vs. Mary Washington. Liberty Hall Field. l
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Washington College Tournament.
‘ ~ I
I p.m Alumni/Varsity lacrosse Game. Upper Athletic Field.
I I
“ENE I WIHEEBE
Yom Kippur. ,
‘l p.m. WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Catholic University. Varsity Couns.
3p.m. WOMEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. U.M.B.C. Libcny Hall Field. ‘ I
7 pm. POLITICS FILMFEST: Social Choice (USA, I986). Nonhcn Auditorium, University Library. F
Numerous mountain bikes are , I
alWaYS Parked 0UIS|de the l lbYarY- All Day CAREER DEVELOPMENT & PLACEMENT: Mock Video Interviews (advance sign-up): '
 hoto b Ca Baber Resume Critique (walk-in). CD&P Officc.
p Y ry ' ll a.m. . 5 p.m. BLOODMOBILE: Dorcmus Gymnasium. “
4 p.m. CD&P: Discover Workshop. Room 108, University Center.
than use, ’ I sald Hun[gr_ ‘ ‘The rna- 7 p.m. POLITICS FILMFEST: Social Chain: (USA, I986). Nonhcn Autlitorium, University Library '
- - . AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Randolph-Macon Woman's College.
_]Ol’I[y of folks around here are Just ‘
gfnng, , [0 use It as a general purpose 5 p.m. VOLLEYBALL: Generals vs. Roanoke College, Catholic University. Wamcr Center.
blkeo AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: MEN'S SOCCER‘ Lyncltburg; WOMEN'S SOCCER‘ Sweet 5
Briar.

 
Foreign language 0 . "Beyond the Fundamentals. A Colloquium" (through Oct. 14).
Reserved parking for conference in Lot A, V.M.I.
MEMORIAL SERVICE: Honoring Robert E. Lee on the I 19th anniversary of his (IC.'ll.ll.
Lee Chapel. Public invited.
CD&P: Test Interpretation. Room I08, University Center.
CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Room 401, Howe Hall.

Noon

EI 

Foreign Language C ‘ rice continues.

Law School Fall Break begins.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Glassboro State. Varsity Courts.

CONFERENCE LECTURE: "Language and Literature: False Dichotomies, Real Allies,"
Marya A. Barnett, University ofVirginia. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public
invited.

CONCERT: "Illusions of Kevin Spencer, magician." Student Activities Pavilion.

CONFERENCE RECITAL: "An Evening with Eichcndorff: The Schumann-Lt'cdcrlUeir,“
D. Stevens Garlick, bass-baritone; Mary Eliiabcth Forbes, piano. Lee Chapel. Public
invited.

BELTS
BELTS

 

Foreign Language Conference ends.

CDSLP: GRE Examinatio .

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Hollins. Varsity Courts.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Methodist. Varsity Courts.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: FOOTBALL: i arnpdcn-Sydney: WATER POLO: S0|.lII'lCLl\lL'fll
Varsity Championships, Annapolis; MEN'S SOCCER: Va. Wesleyan; WOMEN'S
SOCCER: Guilford; CROSS COUNTRY (M&W): Suite Meet, Williamsburg.

9 a.m.

EXHIBITIONS

t DUPONT GALLERY: "Photographs by Patrick Hinely and Charles Mason" (through Oct. 8). Gallery hours ill'\‘

a 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Admission is free.

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: "The Two Gcntlemen of Verona: A Sclccuoii of the University
Library's Print, Non-print. and Rare Holdings" (through November).

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: "Parallel Lcttcrs--Parallel Lives: The Corrcspontletice
of Lee and Jackson" (through January). Hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, LOWER LEVEL ONE LOBBY: "W&L and the Founding of the Rockbridgc
Historical Society" (through Oct. 13).

ALL SPORT COATS - 20% OFF
Homecoming Weekend

LEWIS HALL, CHARLES VAILL LAUGHLIN FACULTY LOUNGE: "Fortnations: AcrylicPuintings on
Canvas and Paper by George Simpson" (through Oct. 31).

Be the first on campus
to own these exclusives!

Have a good weekend and

FLAH

a little

0 Cosmetics ‘Per;/irmes
0 Free Delivery

Prescriptions
Charge Accounts

- ' Bean Bags

‘  reg.size
A  iumbosize

-at...-

ONKYO t5-T3160 Flemote Preamplifier/M-5160
150 Watt Power Amplifier

Reg. $630 NOW 

Speakers

 —

Infinity RS 3000 8" 2-way reg.$258 now$199
Infinity RS 4000 8" 3-way reg.$498 now$299
Infinity SM 120 12" 3-way reg.$798 now$399 pair
Infinity SM 100 10" 2-way reg.$558 now$299 pair
Boston Acoustics A100 10"

2-way reg.$42O now$299 pair

Design Acoustics 3-way sub-woofer

system reg.$695 now$299

Vector Research VRX 4200
40 watt audiolvideo receiver,

reg.s4oo now$ 1 99

VALUE MART

compomm Ham. 3 Cor sumo; 0 water Beds 0 Furniture 0 Applioncos 0 TV: Ovidoo soloslltomals

26l-2544 2175 Magnolia Ave. Buona Vista -Financing available-

i

St  The Su

   

  

 

a supp

 

7”’ (5 ivgri. I-Uame‘{u1:fi;*i‘_:,
perm,3ri(e;3 i itgl  of
The Conn

    

»

'\

IC

     

omecomng 1

ement to

iﬂtng-tu

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

    

Conels o la
W&L Friday

From News Releases

Based in Raleigh, North Carolina, The Connells were
formed in 1984 when lead guitarist Mike Connell, then a law
student asked his younger brother David, a bass player to help
him start a band. An ad for a singer-attracted among others
a budding young swimming instructor, Doug MacMillan who
had never sung before, but thought it might be fun. He was
picked to be The Connells frontman, and is still somewhat
surprised to ﬁnd himself the lead singer of a band. They
were soon joined by Peele Quest. Several weeks later, the

lineup became complete when George Huntley, a fan of The '

Connells and frontman for his own bank, joined them on
guitar, keyboard and vocals. Mike and George remain the
primary lyricists and composers of The Connells unique and
powerful guitar—driven music.

in 1984 The Connells landed a track on North Carolina's
Dolphin Records sampler, which caught the attention of many
producers, including Don Dixon. He later became the produc-
er of The Connells first LP Darker Days released on Black
Park Records in 1986. Darker Days introduced their unique
sound to an enthusiastic audience and critical praise came
thick and fast on both sides of the Atlantic for this young
North Carolina quintet. Darker Days was released on British
Demon Records (co—owncd by Elvis Costello) in the UK.

Later that year, Let's Active frontman and producer Mitch
Easter was blown away by The Connells‘ New Years eve
'-1.986 showcase, and immediately offered to produce their next
album at his Drive—ln Studios. The ﬁnished album, Boyian
."leigr'it.$ was soon scooped by TVT Records and released in
the £11.31 of i987. Boyiart Heights became an irnmediate col-
lege .avoritc as it scaled (?.1virL/Rolling .‘It0ne‘:: Viational Al-

«.1».

,: .»-Sea:-es 535-9 a,.t.~i‘é.iéi;:;-i_¢.— 

 



l

l

elis

1 3'39

 

LEXlNGTON,VlRG|N|A

 

    

   

Full weekend planned

By Scott Richardson
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee Home-
coming 1989 kicks off this
weekend with a variety of activi-
ties in addition to the traditional
football game on Saturday after-
noon.

The “Five Star Generals,"
W&L alumni who were gradu-
ated 50 or more years ago, will
be honored during a reunion
.,-anquet Friday at 7:30 p.m. in
Evans Dining Hall. Earlier in
the day, the “Five Star Gener-
als” also have a 12:30 luncheon
with the Alumni Board, Alumni

Career Assistance Program
(ACAP) Coordinators and their
spouses.

Graduates from the past four
years will gather for a “Cluster
Reunion” Banquet in the Gener-

als’ Headquarters at 8 p.m. Fri-
day. The “Cluster Reunion”
prograrn was initiated last year
to give younger alumni an op-
portunity to gather on campus
prior to their ﬁve—year spring
reunion.

Also Friday evening there
will be an alumni reception hon-
oring the l939 Homecoming
Queen Court at 6 in the Alumni
House.

Fresh from playing a sold
out show at Hollins College this
past Friday, The Connells, a Ra-
leigh, N.C. based college rock
band, plays the Student Activi-
ties Pavilion at 9 p.m. on Fri-
day. Tickets are $6 at the door
or $5 if purchased during the
pre-sale in frorit of the Co—op.

W&L’s Career Develop and
Placement Office will conduct
two ACAP Workshop sessions

during the weekend, during
which alumni from selected ca-
reer fields will conduct seminars
with current students and alumni.

The Friday workshop begins
at 2 p.m. with a welcome and
orientation by President John D.
Wilson in room 327 of the
Commerce School. It will be
followed at 3:30 pm. by a
student-alumni panel on ACAP
success.

The second session, “Starting
an ACAP Program in Your
Chapter," will be held Satuiday
morning at 10:30 following a
9:15 meeting by the ACAP Co-
ordinators to review the pilot
program.

Also on Friday at 2 p.m.
there will be a symposium, “Ac-
ross Fifty Years: An Open Fo-
rum on Education, Careers and

L] Please see PLANS page 7

Homecoming traditions

By R.J. Thomas
Staff Reporter

It’s dark and Wilson Field is
empty. The stands stretch out
into the dark around me like
ocean waves. In a few days
they will be ﬁlled by screaming
students and alumni. The Field
is dark too. The glow form a
light on the press box runs down
the stands and out into the Field
but melts into darkness at little
less than half-way out. in a few
days this too will be filled, with
football players and pretty girls
escorted by Mr. Lce’s
gentlemen. There is no moon in
the sky tonight and the stars
shine out brightly. Casscopia
sits in the heavens above Wilson

field, a crooked "W." Looking
very closely, somewhere in the
priiterz V .d 3"<:r. 7 cm

 

see a crooked "L.

l 9 2 5 . T h e f i r s :
Homecoming. On Saturday,
November 7th, 1925 thousands

of people ﬁlled Wilson Field.
ﬁlled the bleachers erected on
both sides and both ends of the
field, and ﬁlled all the standing
space to watch the Generals,
under a steady drizzling rain,
beat U.Va 12-0. Most of the
U.Va student body was there
too.

November was chosen for
Homecoming because it was the
most convenient time of the year
for alumni to 'return. The
Alumni Magazine for October,
1925 announced it as the "First
Official Annual Homecoming
Day." Tickets were $2.00 and
the seats were reserved. Alumni
were invited to attend a meeting
of the Alumni .-xssociation, inc.
‘~'-s-:10 they w<:'u.id be £t£i(i!'C.‘=.S0(.l.
by  Benn)’, president of the

University of Alabama (which
was sharply criticized elswhere
in the same issue for stealing the
W & L Swing and calling it the

Alabama Swing) and former
president of W & L. Alumni
were also invited to attend
classes that morning. "That

morning“ was Saturday. Things

, have changed.

Accommodations were made
for 10,000 people. Fraternity
House managers names were
listed in the Alumni Magazine
so alumni could contact them if
they wanted to stay in their
fraternity houses. The railroads
offered special rates from all
over the state to Lexington.
Tickets for the game were put
on sale in Roanoke, Lynchburg
and Staunton.

The night before the game ::
pep rally was hed a::i'i

1'; see TRADS page T

 

-

  
 

¢ 3 ‘_ . ’ ‘ ‘ ,, ‘ .,  Q h

»

 

 

The Ring-tum Ifhl Homecoming Supplement, October 5, 1989

, 9

By Jennifer Brandowskl
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee's Greek
organizations have exciting plans
for Homecoming, from cocktails
and band parties to tailgates and
pig roasts.

On Saturday there are’ a

variety of events planned. SPE
will be having a brunch and
Kappa Sigma is having a tailgate
by the Liberty Hall ruins before
the football game.
Chi Omega and Kappa
Alpha Theta are also having a
tailgate picnic before the game.
“We’re really excited to do
something with Chi—O...it’ll be
fun and promote Panhellenic
unity," Theta Activities
Chairman Patsy Sciutto said.

Chi-O is also planning a
“pre-party" later in the
afternoon at Treasurer Cammie
Seymour’s house. “We're
looking forward to our first big
event of the season and are
looking ‘forward to seeing our
alumni,” Chi-0's Special Events
Chairman Dale Wyatt said.

Saturday aftemoon The Truly
Dangerous Swamp Band will be
playing for Phi Kapp and SAE
behind the Phi Kapp house.
According to SAE sophomore
Will Thomas, “Everybody here
is looking forward to a lot of
good weather and a lot of nice
alumni coming back." The Rain
will be playing for the two
houses at SAE later that night.

Sigma Chi, Lambda Chi, Fiji,

 

and Chi Psi are all planning
cocktail parties for after the
ootball game. SPE will be
aving a pig roast at their
ountry house, and the Delts are
aving a cookout.
Almost all of the houses will
having bands at their
aturday night parties. Beta will
having a Reggae band,
prising, according to treasurer
‘s Boone, who was “too

  
    
   
  
  

Greeks plan for
Homecoming 89

tired from last weekend to»,
comment.”

The Truly Dangerous Swamp
Band will move from Phi Kapp.
to Pika for the evening. Liquid:
Pleasure will be playing at l(A._
The Rhythm Kings at Pi Phi
(The Grandeurs at Phi Psi, and‘.
Impulse Ride at SPE.

GEM, a progressive band,
will be playing at Sigma Chi,,
according to Social Chainnanz
Karsten Arnilie. “We have high.
expectations for a blow-oul:
weekend,” he said.

Kappa Sigma will be at.
Zo1lrnan’s Pavilion with The
Backstoppers. “It should be a
really fun weekend," Social
Chairman Page Paitskipter said.

According to Fiji President
Mike Badger, they will be
having “Next Move, a band
from Atlanta that played in the
Pit last year. We should have a.
lot of guys coming back that
graduated last year and a few
years ago so it should be a good
time.”

Lambda Chi Clint Wheelock
said that he is “deﬁnitely
looking forward to the
weekend.” Non Rationale, a
progressive band, will be playing
at their house on Saturday.

According to Chi Psi John
Reisenweber, they will be having
a catered dinner and a Casino
Night. “I'm looking forward to
having a buzz for the entire
weekend and to having a good
time," he said. The Delts will

be having “just a regular
party," Junior Richard Martz
said.

According to Allen Ladd, Phi
Delt will have “Tiny Purple
Fishes warming up in the
basement downstairs and Split
Decision playing upstairs.” Their
festivities will continue on
Sunday with brunch and
cocktails. “We're expecting a
large turnout by the W&L

female group," Ladd said.

Sororities elect reps

 

By Kelly McCabe
Staff Reporter

 

Despite some initial dis-
agreement, all three Washington
and Lee sororities will have
Homecoming Queen nominees
this weekend.

In September, each sorority
received a letter from Associate
Alumni Secretary James D.
Farrar Jr. inviting them to elect
Homecoming Queen
representatives.

“I was nominated before I
knew it," said Kimberly Booth,
Kappa Alpha Theta's representa-

_Brock, the general

tive.

Booth said Theta's reaction
to their invitation to have a
nominee was quite positive.

Kappa Kappa Gamma had
not decided to elect a
r;=_.n;sentative as_of last week,
according to Kappa President
Heather Brock.

When the idea was brought
up in a chapter meeting, said
consensus
was to elect a male
representative for Homecoming
King instead. That idea was
discarded, Brock‘ said, because
they would have been the only
sorority with it male

representative.

Brock said Kappa chose a
nominee, junior Linsley Hunt,
because the other two sororities
had already elected
repersentatives.

Although most of the female
students have expressed that they
support the idea of sorority
Homecoming representatives, the
male students seem to have
mixed feelings.

Heather Brock said she has
heard one fraternity member
describe the idea as “stupid,"
but added that Hunt's escort,

Who chooses the queen?

By Brian Root
Senior Copy Editor

Why will everyone show for
only the first half of the football
game this weekend? That's easy.
Everyone wants to see who gets
kissed by Prof. Keith Shillington
at halftime — the traditional
honor accorded Washington and
Lee’s Homecoming Queen.

This year, however, student
interest is a little more intense
titan usual. Last fall, for the first
time, the Homecoming court was
made up exclusively of W&L
students. The reaction from those
in attendance last year was
somewhat hostile.

So, the question arises, is the
committee which selects the
Homecoming Queen biased in

favor of W&L students?

“There would probably be an
unconscious tendency to give a
little more attention to someone
you know in any interview,"
said Prof. Clark Mollenhoff, the
chairman of this year’s
committee. “Of course, everyone
will try to not have a bias in
our selection. We're open to any
young lady who impresses us.”

Mollenhoff said the
committee, which also includes
Prof. Alfred Fralin, Carol
Calkins, and Helena Roller, will
be looking for someone who is
both “physically and
intellectually beautiful.”

“I certainly don't want
anyone who is empty-headed
representing the school at

Homecoming," said Mollenhoff.
Mollenhoff said if the

senior Chris Giblin, “doesn't
seem to mind."
organizations that elect

candidates object to the eventual
selection, the responsibility is
theirs.

“We don't select the
candidates," said Mollenhoff.
“All we do is pick who we
think is the best from what we
have to work with.”

This year, also for the first
time, W&L‘s three sororities
have chosen candidates for
Homecoming Queen, despite the
misgivings of many members.

“I think it's a line idea,"
Mollenhoff said. “The women
probably know each other better
than anyone else might."

There’s only one way to ﬁnd
out how this year's selection
goes. Go out to the football
game — at least the first half.

Go Generals!
Beat Maryville

 

  

 

{-
7'hm~v/-n. 0-Wm 3 Hi’ p m .-\(IAl’ i’.mrl ~ s'.....«. NllIl'l|'\ ¢u.,..mr... in mi .. ... <:.m..-ll. \\'!t-l. (:l......l l:....-.}.m.-.. /..-.~ ti/mp.-.r
14:’: Pm \\‘&l. :\lumnt H4-uni ul tilt».-...»-.— _\'mIhm S“”h(wAl:'~‘,‘i .\,umm km” “W” WW £7’; Uni--rlmu luh-l.«~r .-n-I suum.-..-l <:..;......l

. A T, ' . ,,
I-rill .\lt-r-nnpz mm-tmq umtuuu-.~ .<II1I/Ilulmm. M‘ (MMHH Hm" Hm" '
on l"ml.i\ .mrl .\'.ntunl.n) I'nr;rv-in I.:hmu .‘1I)lI-ri-()0 p in. ()p(‘IIInu Rt‘tI‘pllnIt IIII tlu- Iimu.-nu-ht Ituum in in . ;;, _~\(Z~\l' |’.uu-l ".\t.u-rmu ..n -xlumm t,’.,n--,-v,.
vxhilm "l'.nr.illrl I.I'lIl'l’\- I'rn.-nun II/rruu (-_,,-,.,., ,.\_“N_,,,... j-,,“‘,,_”” m _s‘,,,m_: ,-_./—
Fndm. I)./nlrn 1; Pilfllnl" Ln-t-x" 1.\'»-: I:'.\lnl-umml ’ \',,m (;h_.’,,,., “
ll IN! .I III -.'I'(Hl p m. I-'|\r-Star (ii-nu-r.il~ .unl .-ll'mmu ]’l‘I4|I 0 ()0 p in. Rt-n-plmn IIUIII-rlnL{ tilt‘ l"ti‘> .iz‘mmu Iln.-tn it Mr .. In \\'mnnl'~ (‘rim (Z.»uriu\ \\ \1,,., _-lrhlrnr
lit-rm-mnmm Rx-i_n~n.mun Hn|nt'tnInIn( Qu--rn (1--urx };_,j,],,m ‘mu |_,,,,j,.,,,,,. (j,,”,.U. 1.-,,./,/,
new p m jnim Rnlttlolplt 'l mkvr I.l’Illll‘l' 1...“. 11,.” 7~.m ,, ... null.-l l)mn-'1 H-vn--rme vhv " an //ml’ n in .. in -x.- ‘in ,, .,, p.....~t hm u.~.~mn .a.l....._....., \-,,,,;,,,,
Rnh.ml A I-:,..«u-.l.~,i......-. |’.ulu'r mu PlI!h'\~tIl‘ hv-'->1-H (-vn<-ml~ ---I-I 'l--‘ Alunml ‘-~-rm 'l .. 5.-1.».-x.w (rail...-. .-t..,m,u...m
l‘--n-~r~uv at (II--«.--:«» |..-n VI:-~<-I <‘\-“N-‘W’ ”"'.'~"d'" ‘-Willi"--"'-Y‘ \\m...... .\l H.u'mu tn “ran M I'n.-.->«uvm.I...m
“I . I: I" ' .
1240 in in I um Iirun Iur tin‘ I'l\u-\’t n Vtmrm .y.. I'i,.»« Rmnn“ ‘H I ’”’[”Ik/'' " I’ I '["'" .-lrlmmmnt and Iwnammt .-Irv.’
. . . . . . ... . H . s (. ., t _ V
(Er-in-r.tI.~. .-\lumm Hn.m! ml I)lI(‘4 ltIl‘~ \(.-‘\I’ In-nmmlmuml M R‘ N hmmm‘ hi ' [,1 ’‘.'d“'mi 0 .H”'nﬂ"‘m' Jmmlm “M1 M I," Ila"
(vl_m.‘lI”‘"”r_ mm "H," gpquw‘ ; 3 |m_m.m, P m (;|“5,,., R,.”",,," p‘”.,\__( -L,“‘_\ H’ {"‘.’l’.’”(/ Athnul and hum” Ihmlm ur I.uu .\} hunt‘ .'Ir2,"llI\l4/Vl.\
I-‘mu law. 1).-n-...... (um """’- ""‘7- "'”“~ -‘"“ "'“" ”"""4W""~ 1: ll! .. m \\’...m-us. so...-. u Ralttilviph-.\i.ttun .-mm.-.
, I.nm/ammmi /vi ' llllzlt-um “-,,,,,;m-\ (;,_|j,.,,,. ,.”.,,;
2 on p u. .-\(‘.~\l’ \\‘..yt..l...,.—~\\. t...u..- and (,'4»m _ ‘ “
()””'L”“‘” Mhm L i q (M) p ... .1 Im .. Ill .\tmlt‘m ,-\: ttutu-. 'M...n.l. (Hull! rn . .3 0,, P m M._“») (:"m “Hun” ‘\ ummlu Vﬂhlm‘
tr‘.-.r‘..ml, In.-.~..l.-m _]->lm I) \\.1~.... . “""‘””“" "“' """"""‘ ‘*""""" '~"""t‘Nt\ --ml l~~’nrhl-mu ‘N-|l«'.u<' I~'v/ll»
Bmlluta-ur./I |)r Rn L. II1‘.I|lt'\, ,‘\\\|!(l.lIl‘ l)<-.m -2| ""”""i”‘- U""i"" 7 1 1 ()0, v “,3 P m I um hm," |,/.(,,, }.‘,,I,{
. , . .- . l . .
‘“"|”"" "I", "'n.‘"" "I (:‘‘''I” ”"“'l"P"""" "ml 7 ‘ill .: Ill Hulk-I Br«'.nLl.i.~t lur sill .-\(I.-\I’ I'mtrr.\rIt .-\ rulnrlul prv-q.nm- .n~4-tnl»l\ nl \Ill('I'IlI‘. larultv
P“"""""" \\'nrk.~lmji I’.\ruup.uit.~ Cmln I0‘! and .ilunnu'
"1"" P In "Au--><~ hm \‘--as-.~ .-\n m... (;,.,,,, R....m. a; to .. m -1: no p.m ()pt'lI IIllll.\I‘ an (I-:If('('I cnr 01/... E"’”’“’"’"’”’ ”‘ ”" /"" “""""""" ”'""’
(_)p"" h”""' ‘m ""I""“"i’_" l‘'‘"’' "W7 I)1'\'('IIIplnI'llK and l’l.urmt-nt ((?l)l') I rurnuli R""' Phi" E""‘-‘ H"“
('mm'.:'“d Wu!“ H" . "‘““‘- A“ v*‘"'""' '"""‘*‘ ‘-"W" '1 ml p.nI Fnutb.ill wet-I. v. .\t..m-.n.- mm». rm
.\ l1Il|\1'l\.|ll4IIl Iu't\\I't'n »--nun .IIIlHIlll .:!ltl \\t\'I.
|HHlt'I'v.‘Y-I*I|h|'<'-* “H '“""l‘ “'“|“‘ “ "‘ '”‘”"-‘l ”“ U ' ) A m AVAP PM“. .-.~P”M‘ Rm“-“ [M (mnmfn: Hztllltmr trim-ntng ul I‘iI)lllt'(tIl!)-)I!L' Que.-n
trrlwl .\lm/rvulm \\' l..ul .\--mun». I’rulr~~l-r -it VIII-I Pmarzun .\.hm./ ,)_)/
l’hIl"-°v|-\ 0 ill .. ... (:..u'.-.« m lrnnt ..l t..-.- (:t»...,x~l I.” t'/...;»/ ‘ W ’’ "‘ '““"" 5"“‘" “ -“~"‘ “-*‘*""s""" -4"""~
. .. ' '. . . ‘ /4
_v 3.. I, ,1, \\‘&j_ L,“ (;,,u,,, ,; _\|,.,.,,,,,< /:m.,/,, L,,,.,,,,,.‘ lur thv II\l -.\t.ir (um i.i‘.~ and min 1 nluuuu l'’’ ‘
(.\Irrtmq t<IIl||l)Ul’\1I|| .\.xIuul.I\l I.:uu H/r.'l Ram Plan Alunint llnusv 4 M V '” -A“‘”““' R"“'l"""‘ -“I/W'|'H "mu!

 

 

 

A-~Qsoo«s

By Spain Brumby
Staff Reporter

1940 Washington and Lee
graduate Lea Booth has attended
Homecoming for nearly half a
century.

Renirnirig for this annual
event, the alumnus and former
Director of Public Relations of
W&L looks forward to seeing
college friends. Often, however,
he is disappointed by modest
alumni attendance. “This may
be because of the broad
geographical scatteration of the
W&L alumni," he said. “It's
not like a local or state-oriented
college where a high percentage
of alumni are not far from the
campus and have only short
distances to travel in returning to
alma mater.”

 

/3 g A .4 '1 1

4..-g0‘*p—J~o

The Ring-tum Phl Homecoming Supplement, October 5, 1989

Alumnus returns for

Booth, a Lynchburg resident,
enjoys the drive over the
mountain to what he calls “the
nation's most picturesque
campus.” On several occasions,
Booth and a group of Lynchburg
alumni have organized a bus trip
to the Homecoming football
game.

“This is usually when the
Generals‘ opponent is a well-
known rival such as Harnpden-
Sydney or Sewanee," Booth
said. This year, however, he
added, “I invited a local
alumnus to drive over to
Lexington with me to see the
game, and he asked, ‘But who is
Maryville?' ' '

Booth said he plans to attend
the football game. He will be
joined by his twin sons, George
and Cary, Class of 1980, the

 

seventh generation of their
mother's family to attend
Washington and Lee. Booth said
he is hoping for a Homecoming
victory and a chance to relive
his college days.

Booth would especially like
to see his freshman roommate,

 

49th year

Dick Boisseau.

“Dick was captain of the
football team and was selected
to the Associated Press All-
American team that year. But it
was the ﬁrst time the University
_of Virginia had beaten the
Generals in years, and that sad
event occurred at Homecoming."

Booth said he remembers
Home—coming weekends marked
by school spirit and tradition
during his college days. He said
Friday night pep rallies in
Doremus Gymnasium were
attended by almost the entire
student body. Cy Young, alumni
secretary and basketball coach,

would give the traditional
exhortation to “beat those damn
Wahoos!” This became the
students’ battle cry when playing
long—time rival UVa.

Booth said he also re-
members the spirited fraternity
houses adorned with streamers
and clever signs. After the game
the fraternities would have
parties and dances that Booth
said were “always well-chaper-
oned by our house-mothers.”

“The brothers and their
guests were always wcll—be-
haved, of course," he added.
“Well, most of the time."

According to Booth, the most
memorable Homecoming was in
1951. when the Generals beat
UVa.

“The score was 42-14, and
my ‘date,’ a young Sweet Briar
graduate, and I were so
exhilarated by that glorious
victory that we became engaged
at a post—game party and were
married three months later.”

Shillington returns to glory for 27th time

By Todd Peppers
Staff Reporter

There are certain aspects of
Washington and Lee that take on
a timeless quality: the coloririade
in autumn, the quiet dignity of
Lee Chapel, and the serene
Virginia hills. The farriiliar
campus often overwhelms
returning alumni, and it ﬁlls
them with echoes of their distant
undergraduate days. Yet there is
another facet of Washington ’?ld
Lee history and tradition that
propels alumni back into the
past--Keith Shillington crowning
the homecoming queen during
halftime.

Chemistry professor Keith
Shillington cannot remember a
homecoming where he wasn't
occupying center stage on the
ﬁfty yard line. He thinks his
first homecoming was over
twenty-ﬁve years ago. Calyx
records first record Professor
Shillington's presence at
homecoming in the fall of 1963.

Not only was Shillington
crowning homecoming queens
before most Washington and Lee
students were born, but he can
make the legitimate claim to be
the first ever to assume the role.

"As far as I know, I started
at the beginning, said
Shillington. "When they started
having a homecoming queen,
they asked me that year to
crown her."

When asked if he was the
first Washington and Lee
professor to ever crown a
homecoming queen, Shillington
wisely said "If I say that,
someone will dig up an oldie
and a goldie. There apparently
have been queens like May
queens and so forth, but the idea
of having a homecoming queen
was new. As far as I know, I
started the idea [for the
ceremony's proccdurel."

Since Shillington was the
first professor to crown the
queen, he did not have any any
guidelines or traditions to follow.
He was forced to literally invent
the unique halftime event.
Shillington feels that it was his
acting abilities :',1at made him
the man f:.-r the part.

"One of the reasons why I
was asked [to create the event]
was because I was in the
theater, I had played Malvolio in
‘Twelfth Night.’ The chances of
being in the chemistry
department and doing it
[homecoming] aren't very good;
it was very apt to be die english
or history departments since
there are more students."
Shillington drew upon his drama
experiences to create the
ceremony.

According to Shillington, the
crowning ceremony has not
changed dramtically over the
years. He used to sit in the
stands for the first half before
walking down to the ﬁeld at
halftime. Knee surgery now
prevents Shillington from sitting
in the stands. Current
Washington and Lee students are

accustomed to the sight of’

Professor Shillington roaring
onto the football ﬁeld in a golf
cart. One can always tell by the
crowd's reaction that Shillington
has arrived.Last year he zoomed
into Wilson stadium with a huge
tic strearriing behind him.

"I wore a big tie that said
"vote" on it," said Shillington.
"This year I am going to wear a
big long tie because they [the
students] are all yelling about it.
I have got about ﬁve of those
long ties that various kids have
given me."

Shillington will not have to
search long to ﬁnd a particularly
striking tie for this homecoming.
At one time Professor Jefferson
Davis Futch III was not the only
teacher on campus famous for
his fondness of ties. The ties
are simply one part of the
"clown role" that Shillington
says he plays as part of the
Washington and Lee's
homecoming "folk-lore."

"I used to have an October
tic festival where I wore a
sleazy tie, a new one, every day
of October. The strawberry
yellow is an awfully big
favorite, it isn't long, though. I
have a long tie that I think will
make the grade."

When a.':!;;'.d about the
changes in over the years,
Shillington agreed that
horrigcolrriing is another facet of

 

Dr. Keith Shillington, dressed to the toes, is the traditional kiss(right). Shillington said “l
seen announcing(left) the 1988 Homecoming didn't ﬁnd any difference in crowning a W&L
Queen Stacy Patmor and crowning her before girl." File photo.

our campus that maintains its
aura of timelessncss. In his
eyes the events on the ﬁeld
remain constant. But there are
changes off the ﬁeld.

"There used to be pep-rallies
on Friday night. We tried
crowning the queen one Friday
night instead of at the game, and
that was an absolute, total error.
It just didn't work."

Of course one change in the
traditional homecoming
ceremonies is the Washington
and Lee women who now
compete for the crown.
Shillington was present at the
historic occasion when Catherine
Christian was the first
Washington and Lee student
crowned queen. Last fall,
Washington and Lee junior Stacy
Patmore became the second.

"I didn't find any difference
in crowning Washington and Lee
girls. They have all been ﬁne."

Shillington predicted that a
future dilemma might serve to
alter the twenty—six year old
homecoming style. "The real
problem is coming because the
sororities are wanting to select a
king," he said. "And it might
be alright, I’m just about retired

completely." Shillington doesn't
know what would happen if
there one day there was a
homecoming king, but remarked
"I guess I could serve as master
of ceremonies. I can crown her,
but can I crown him? We are
inventing."

One aspect of the event that
always remains constant is
Shillington's famous, or
infamous, homecorriing kiss.
When asked if he knew how the
women felt about the christening
kiss, he said "I really don't
know. Most of them are very
warm and affectionate. I have
had very few girls who didn't
seem to be enjoying it. The
ﬁrst year, I had to keep it [the
kiss] very, very, very, very,
rigorous and straight-forward."

Junior Stacy Patmore, the
1988-1989 homecoming queen,
was asked about her reaction to
the Shillington kiss. "I was a
little nervous about it, but the
kiss wasn't that bad. It is just
pan of the tradition and
homecoming wouldn't be the
same without the kiss."

Finally, on the subject of the
homecoming kiss, Shillington
said that "what I do the kids
adore." Yet he doesn't allow

the students’ adoration to his
head and he adtk, modestly, that
students also "adore cocacola."
Yet the traditional kiss always
seems to bring the biggest roar
from the stands as Professor
Shillington welcomes the queen
to her new reign.

Shillington thinks that some
students are confused about his
role in homecorriing. He is not
a judge. A committee is
responsible for judging the
candidates, and new panelists
were selected for this year's
committee. They are Carol
Calkins, Tidge Roller, Professor
Alfred Fralin, and Professor
Clark Mollenhoff. Shillington
explained why he no longer acts
as a judge.

"I judged for ﬁve years and
dined for ﬁfteen years with the
I(.A.'s." But he grew tired of
the uproar he endured each time
a K.A. queen was crowned and
decided to no longer act as a
judge.

As Shillington approaches his
twenty-seventh homecoming, he
could probably recount endless
tales of his experiences. When
asked about the most memorable
homecoming, Shillington offered
C] see SHILUNGTON page 7

 

Who will beueen?

Ii’

-Qb\b‘An>b¢

The Ring-tum Phl Homecoming Supplement, October 5, 1989

This crown will soon belong to one of this year's 22 1989
Homecomeing nominees. The new Queen will be announced
and congratulated by Dr. Keith Shillington during half-time at

the Homecoming Game Saturday.

Leiphart.

Photo by Baber, not

Question: “Why do you feel you would be a good representative of

Washington and Lee?”

Kimberly Booth
Washington and Lee, ’91
Escort: Chris Weed
Kappa Alpha Theta
Comment “It‘s a big step for sororities
on campus and I am honored to be a

part of it. I think it will be fun."

Catherine Baillio
Washington and Lee, '90

Escort: Ted Fox, Pi Kappa Alpha
Comment “I maintain a variety of inter-
ests and generally find myself to be a
typical member of the student body.”

 
 

Washington and Lee, '91
Escort: Chris Giblin,
Kappa Kappa Gamma

Comment “because I love the school."

Audria DePinto
Hollins College, ’93
Escort: Chris Livingston, Pi Kappa Phi
Comment “I feel I am qualiﬁed to
represent W&L as homecoming
queen, because in the few weeks that
I have experienced W&L, I have
thoroughly enjoyed myself. I realize
the importance of intercollegiate re-
lationships and with this opportunity.
I can truly act on this."

 
 

Susan Sarver
Washington and Lee. ’9l
Est-art: Mark Churchill,,Alpha Phi Omega
Comment “I believe in the ideals of
W&L, in the honor system, and am in-
volved in worthwhile activities such as
service through APO. I am also an hon-
or student and concerned about my edu-
cation. A well-rounded college student
should be concerned with these things."

Megan Reese
Washington and Lee, '93
Escort: Alex Hltz, Kappa Sigma
Comment “I guess because I am always
happy — always really cheery and
outgoing. I represent all the fresh new
faces on campus and the great new
impact the Class of 1993 will make on

W&L."

 

Nancy Mitchell
Washington and Lee, ’92
Escort: Andrew Galfrey,

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Comment “Because through involvement
at W&L, I've come to respect all it has

given us and I'm very proud to be a
student here."

  
    

 

Caroline Wight
Washington and Lee, ’92
Escort: John Donaldson, Beta Theta Pi
Comment “Because I think being queen
is a lot more than just a beauty con-
tcst — at least I hope so. It means being
involved in all aspects of student life
and I feel I have become involved in as
many areas as I am capable of. And be-
cause I love W&L and getting involved

in every part of iL"

 

Lauren Rowland
Washington and Lee, ’92
Escort: Rob Alilt‘,

Lambda Chi Alpha
Comment “I just want to say that I feel
it's an honor to be nominated by Lamb-
da Chi to be their homecoming queen."

 

Amy Fisher
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Escort: Karsten Amlie, Sigma Chi

Comment “because I want to kiss Shil-
lington."

-u-soﬁﬁ

 

 

  

Stephanie Gulttard
Washington and Lee, ’90
Escort: John Missert, Chl Psi
Comment “Because of the diversiw of
my activides on campus as well as the
depth of my involvement. Also the va-
riety and depth of my activities on carn-

n

pus

 

Ellen Jenkens
Mary Baldwin College
Escort: Warren Holland,
Phi Delta Theta
Ellen was unavailable for comment

-d

——;g*“§QOr'O£&OGC‘Q'QQC

   

The Ring-tum Phl Homecoming Supplement, October 5, 1989

  

. ‘AM ' ~ »

 

Elizabeth Blair Simmons

Washington and Lee, ’9l
Escort: Joel Pierce Smith,
Chi Omega

Comment “because I go here and have
been active on campus since I was a
freshman."

 

 

In-«tn III:-Uunlln Kﬂnln

Sweet Briar College 992

OVVLLL an Inn
Escort: Scott Cornell, Sigma Nu

Comment “I have been coming to W&L
since ny first year at Sweet Briar. I
think it has a better mix of academics
and parties than any other school in this
region of Virginia"

Christina Lynn Neff
Washington and Lee, ’93
Escort: Chris Mastrogiovanni,

Phi Gamma Delta
Comment “Well, I guess because I have
been trying to become involved in W&L
and have a lot of respect for W&L and

I think it will be a lot of fun."

 

Jennifer Elizabeth Kacmar 4"
Washington and Lee, ’92
Escort: Macon Spencer Miles,
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Comment “I’ve been here a year and
l’ve gotten involved in lots of activities.
I know what’s going on in 3 lot of

different areas."

 

Jennifer Beth Chambers

Sweet Briar College, ’90
Escort: Jim Llnza, Delta Tau Delta
Comment: “I am a senior at Sweet Bri-
ar and have spent every weekend of the
last four years at W & L. It is like a
second home to me. I have been to a
lot of W&L functions. I’m very happy
to be the Delta Tau Delta representative.
because I've known the Delts since my
freshhman year,"

 

Gracie Valentine
Hollins, ’90
Escort: Micheal Applebaum,

Phi Kappa Sigma
Comment “because I'm representing a
tradition of friendship between Ilollins
College and W&L. Because it's a tra-
dition. Hollins has always been a sister
school to W&L and I would like to car-
ry on the traditsion."

 

Sandra Dudley

Washington and Lee, ’91

Escort: Craig Kioski,
Independent Union

Comment “Because the IU had enough

faith to put me up as their nominee."

  

 

  

Beth Anne Tysdale
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Escort: Lee Grable Kappa Alpha
Comment “I strongly support the liberal
arts schools in Virginia and speciﬁcally
W&L. Randolph-Macon Women's Col-
lege, and the different women's colleges
in the area. I have used many of the
W&L facilities: studying in the library
and C-School with friends I have made
over the last four years,

 

 

 

Dana Styles
Washington and Lee, ’91
Escort: Greg Stockton,
Phi Kappa Psi
Dana did not wish to comment.

7l~Im"i

 

Tammi Simpson
Washington and Lee, '91
Escort: Curtis Joseph,
Minority Students Association
Comment “After having attended W&L
for two years, I feel that I am well inte-
grated into university life and atmo-
sphere and enjoy being a student at

W&L."

 

3 O Q .‘

Qguao

You mean there’

By Jay Plotkln

_ Sports Editor

1

It's that Homecoming time of
year again. Everyone is rushing
to find a date and make plans.

And once the problem of
finding a date is taken care of,
then you have to decide what to
do. What to do, what to do?

Well, you and your date can
kick off the Homecoming week-
end with a quaint dinner for two
at one of Lexington’s fine
restaurants. Then there is always
the Friday Night Homecoming
Concert. This year, Lost in the
Supermarket and Flight of Mavis
will be opening up for The Con-
nells.

And after the concert, there
is always that tough choice of
which fraternity houses to go
visit to conclude the evening's
activities.

And that's just Friday night's
activities.

If you decide to drink, re-
member four things: have fun,
be responsible, and don't drink
and drive (A public service an-
nouncement paid for by your
local Sports Editor). And be able
to wake up the next morning in
time to go to the football game.

That's right, the football
game.

At 2:00 on Wilson Field, the
Generals will kick off the 1989
Homecoming game against
Maryville College. On Saturday
it will have been one year and
one day ago since the Generals
defeated the Scots 20-0 at Mary-
ville.

This game will be the fifth
time that the Generals and the
Scots have squared off in
W&L's Homecoming game.
Each team has won twice. In
1987, Maryville spoiled W&L's

The Ring-tum Phl Homecoming supplement, October 5, 1989

   

t

s a at football ga

Senior quarterback Phillip Sampson prepares against the Ma"YV“'9 SCOIS S3tU'daY- Slaﬂ
the Generals pI‘lOl0 by Chris Leipharl.

to unload. Sampson will lead

Since 1955, the Generals are
17-15-2 in Homecoming games.
With all-time winningest head
coach Gary Fallon at the con-
trols, the Generals are 5-6 on
Homecoming.

W&L has had some exciting

‘and outstanding performances in

Homecoming games of the past.
In 1987, Phillip Sampson com-
pleted 23 of 44 passes for 295
yards and two touchdowns in the
loss to Maryville. In 1985, wide
receiver Hugh Finkelstein caught
seven passes for 175 yards and
two touchdowns.

In 1984, quarterback Jon
Thornton completed 11 of 18
passes for 257 yards. 1983 saw
Gene Girard run for 170 yardr
on 17 carries. Girard was
W&L's first 1,000-yard nisher.
1982 provided one of the closest

history. Girard’s one—yard touch-
down run followed by a two-
point conversion pass from
quarterback John Thompson to
Chris Cavalline gave the Gener-
als a 20-19 win over Randolph-
Macon.

In the Generals’ Homecoming
win in 1949. Hall of Fame quar-
terback Gil Bocetti set the Gen-
erals single game all-purpose
yardage mark against Davidson.
Bocetti ran for 175 yards and
three touchdowns on 16 carries
and threw for 167 yards on nine
of 17 passing and another touch-
down in W&L's 53-0 blitz.

In 1981, Homecoming saw
the Generals upset a Maryville
team that came into the game
unbeaten and boastinr the best
total offense in the country at
over 400 yards a game. The

Homecoming 24-19.

By Andrew Waters
Stall‘ Reporter

While Washington and Lee students are
celebrating Homecoming this weekend, Live
Drive organizers and drivers will be working to
insure sober travel for the party-goers.

In addition to its regular Friday and Saturday
call-in service between 10 p.rn. and 2 a.m., Live
Drive Saturday night will provide a shuttle
service between all fraternity houses and the
Pavilion.

Live Drive Chairman John Fialcowitz said he
expects response to Live Drive's efforts to be
good this weekend and has requested another
van for the shuttle service. He said the vans are
usually packed to capacity and often run out of
space.

“The problem is that everybody goes out at
10 o'clock,” Fialcowitz said. “It'd be nice if
people would go out at different times, but
people don't work that way.”

He said he hopes people who live near the
campus will walk to the Pavilion.

Live Drive also offers an exclusive sober-
driver shuttle service to organizations that make
a request two weeks in advance and are willing
to chip in for gas. No fraternities or other
organizations, placed a request for this weekend,
Fialcowitz said. .

“People are just getting used to the idea of
calling in,"he said. “They're gradually realizing
that it's pretty convenient for them."

Calls are fielded by one of six Live Drive
coordinators stationed in the University Center.
Drivers must make periodic stops by the “home

Homecoming games

Live Drive ready for weekend

in W&L W&L defense rose to the occa-

base“ for instructions before answering
requests ~ a process Live Drive Coordinators
think is inefficient.

Live Drive Secretary Stephen Mathis said the
committee hopes to eliminate the tirne-consurning
check-in stop by installing a communication
system in the vans that would enable
coordinators to communicate with drivers. He
said a system similar to a cellular phone will be
tested next week.

“The administration told us that this seems to
be important enough and that they are willing to
work with us to get what we want,” Mathis
said.

Part of the cost of the system, he added, will
probably be taken out of a personal grant that
President Wilson ‘ gave to the Executive
Committee for Live Drive.

Lexington Police Sergeant A.M. Miller said
the number of tickets issued to W&L students
for driving while intoxicated has decreased since
Live Drive began last year. “Now with Live
Drive," Miller said, “there's no reason for
W&L students to get a DUI.”

Fialcowitz said he would like talk to
authorities in other schools and help them start
their own sober-driver program.

“It might be worth bringing to their attention
because it's an issue {ha}. concerns both of us,”
he said.

Miller said he would also like to see Live
Drive offered to nearby girls schools, such as
Southern Seminary. _ ' . 4

Anyone wishing to request call-in service
between 10 p.m. and 2 am. Friday and Saturday
night should call 463-8947.

sion, holding the Scots to half
their normal output in upsetting
them 14-12.

The Generals lost last sea-
son's Homecoming game in
heart-breaking fashion. A safety
on a bad snap and a hail-mary
touchdown pass at the end of
the first half proved to be the
difference as Hampden-Sydney
stopped W&L 22-20. When H-
SC comes to Lexington for
Homecoming, the Generals are
0-5-1.

Last year's disappointing loss
‘vi/as W&L's third straight in a
Homecoming game. No one on
this W&L squad has won a
Homecoming game. Said senior
defensive lineman Scott Sil-
verman, “This year’s seniors
have been talking about it all
this week, and we really want to
be able to say that we won a

 

me, too?

Homecoming game. The Monday
after losing a Homecoming game
is the worst Monday of the
year."

The last W&L Homecoming
win came back in 1985, when
the Generals routed Maryville
42-17 ‘scoring 35 points in the
second half.

There are some similarities
between this W&L team and the
Generals of 1985. The 1985
Generals featured a high scoring
offense led by a record—setting
quarterback. Jon Thornton, who
holds the records for most
touchdown passes in a game (4),
and most passing attempts in a
game (52), led the Generals to a
42-17 win.

Thomton completed 13 of 18
passes for 232 yards and four
touchdowns, and running back
Kevin Weaver ran 24 times for
108 yards and two touchdowns.
Weaver is W&L's second all-
time leading rusher.

The 1989 Generals have
scored 25 points in three of their
four games and are led by
record—setting quarterback Phillip
Sampson, who has set a W&L
record or passed a career mile-
stone in each of the four games
this season.

Another striking similarity
between the seasons is that after
W&L beat Maryville in 1985,
the Generals defeated Harnpdcn-
Sydney in the Squids' Home-
coming game 32-20.

After entertaining Maryville
this Saturday, the Generals will
travel to Hampden-Sydney for
the Tigers’ Homecoming game.

In 1985, the Generals tied
Emory and Henry and Randolph-
Macon for the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference title.

Not to jinx anyone, but who
knows?

The 27 W&L Homecoming Queens
kissed and crowned by Dr. shiuington

1988 - Stacy Noelle Patrnore
Kappa Sigma
W & L

1987 - Catherine Christian
Phi Delta Theta
W & L

1986 - Colleen Bradley
Phi Kappa Sigma
Sweet Briar College

1985 - Ellen Satterwhite
Pi Kappa Alpha
Mary Baldwin College

1984 - Kathleen Plante
Pi Kappa Alpha
Hollins College

1983 - Mary Underwood
Pi Kappa Alpha
Hollins College

1982 - Eleanor Ponder

Hollins College

1981 — Katie Orr
Sigma Chi
Hollins College

1980 - Lucy Caner Fulton
Kappa Sigma
1979 - Michele Bossiere

Kappa Alpha
Hollins College

1978 - Lynn Williams
SAE '

1977 - Julie Osbourne

Sirna NJ

Mary Baldwin College
1976 -

1975 - Linda Hendricks

I974 - Julie Jordon
Delta Tau Delta
Randolph Macon

Woman's College

1973 -
Lambda Chi Alpha

1972 -
1971 -
1970 -
1969 -

1968 -

1967 - Kathy Munn
1966 -

1965 - Marilyn Meyers

Pi Kappa Phi
Sweet Briar College

1964 - Isabel Loperena
Pi Kappa Alpha

1963 - Carol Bruce
Phi Kappa Sigma
Stephens College

;

 

 

TRADS

from page 1

thousand people attended that.
There were cheers and speeches
and more cheers and more
speeches and a bonﬁre. The
game was the next day, people
were excited.

Local merchants were’ asked
to keep their stores closed
during the afternoon so that
everyone in town could attend
the game. It must have seemed
like everyone in the state was
there. There to watch the
Generals beat U.Va. A dance
was held on Saturday night. The
First Official Annual
Homecoming Day was such a
success that they decided‘ to
keep doing it.

Many of the traditions which
grew up over the years are now
gone. Fraternity decorations,
freshman parades, the 13 Club,
pep rallies, the "Openings

Dance." Things have changed.
For years at Homecoming the
Alumni Association would award

The Ring-tum Phl Homecoming Supplement, October 5, 1989

a prize to the fraternity with the
best decorations. ,Fratemities
would decorate their front lawns,
those that had front lawns,
others worrrlﬁ decorated their
house. ey would make
banners and floats to cany and
ride during the Freshman
Torchlight Parade.

On Friday night, the night
before the big game, the
freshmen, wearing pajamas, and
other students would gather in
the gym for a pep rally. W &
L’s cheerleaders would lead the
students in cheers and speeches
would be given by the coaches
and players.
excited. Irt 1955 R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company gave 1,000
little megaphones to the students
for the pep rally. The freshmen
would then, pajama clad, carry
torches through town. The
most frequent path was down
Washington Street, left on
Jefferson, right through Red

 

  

W&L's male cheerleadering squad of 1960 in practice for a
pep rally. Photo provided by Cayix.

SHILLINGTON

from page 3

Everyone got -

  

the following story:

"The Betas one year were
going to dress up one of their
members in a dishmop and that
kind of thing. It wonied rrte for
a bit, how the hell was I going
to handle it if it happened?
That was orte homecoming that
stuck out in my ntind because it
was an awful worry for me."
Luckily for Shillington, the
studertt in drag didn't appear.

Homecoming is never trouble
free, as Shillington is quick to
note. Homecoming problems in
earlier times seemed to center
around the microphone.
Shillington jokingly added that
"it got to the point where I was
nearputonmybehindbythe
electricity on the microphone.
One year when the system was
rtot working well I tried a
megaphone. I can yell loud and
I'm distinct, but it didn't make
it very well."

Professor Shillington has
clearly not tired of the job.
When asked if he enjoys his role
after the many years, he replied
" h Lord yes, I look forward to
it.”

Being an actor is an essential
ingredient for the job, at least
for Shillington, and he used the
language_ of the theater to
describe his feelings about
homecoming. Shillington talked
Of initially having to overcome

stage-fright each time he looked
out upon a full stadium. But
Shillington thinks the role
quickly comes together once he
breaks the ice with his "opening
line."

He added that "the most
glorious moment for me is when
I turn to the microphone.
Before I say anything, I raise
my hands and I bring them all
[the studertts] up. Oh Jesus. I
love that. To have that resonance
between myself and the group in
the stands is what I get out of
it. The electricity is high...it is
theater."

Professor Shillington spoke
wistfully of a future beyond
retirement. He will retire after
the 1990-1991 school year.
Shillington does not what his
role will be in the homecomings
after he retires, and he added
that most students will not krtow
him someday. Stacy Patrnore
said simply that "Professor
Shillington is such an unique
part of homecoming, I can't
imagaine who would replace
him." Her feelings parallel the
thoughts of many past and
present Washington and Lee
students. Others would add to
Patmore's statement that no one
CAN \replace him. "Doc"
Shillington does not have to
worry, Washington and Lee
legends never fade away.

Square, then up Main Street to
Nelson. The students would
then take a right on Nelson and
break into the State theater for a,
free movie.

The parade must have been a
sight. At a time when the world
was not so serious, when
students weren’t spending their
college careers building resumes.
In 1955 the Phi ran a picture of
the parade. In the picture was a
group of students wearing
pajamas, one of them bearing a
placard reading, "Shove It Up a
Turkey - Gobble, Gobble."

13 days before Homecoming

the 13 Club would begin its
initiation period of its 13 new
pledges (who had paid their
initiation fee of $13.13) from 13
different fraternities. At some
point during these 13 days it
was usual for the statue of
Cyrus McCormick, the one
standing guard on front campus.
the one most visitors think is
Lee, was tarred and feathered,
and the base covered with
number 13’s.

Ah, what a fine time it must
have been.

Saturday of Homecoming
would usually begin with a
football game, that much hasn't
changed, but their Saturday night
a dance, called "Openings,",
would be held in a lavishly
decorated Doremus Gymnasium.

1 There would be decorations and

this is when the Homecoming
Queen would be crowned. The
Queen. We still have that, and
‘Dr. Shillington still kisses them.
How long has he been doing
that? It seems as if it started
back in the early 60’s, but he's
not sure and no one else is
either.

But of all those rich
traditions only two remain, the
Game and the Queen. Where did
it all go? Did they just quit?
Was some ban placed on 13's or
pajamas? No. Perhaps they
were killed by a war. They
mostly died out in the late 60’s,

 

W&L's 1960 Homecoming Queen addresses the crowd. Photo

provided by Caylx.

running through the heads of
every young man. The last
mention, in the Phi, of a house
winning a decorations award was
Lambda Chi in 1969, and a
writer in that same issue wrote,
"It seems that for the most part,
an alumnus returning to carrrpus
is a lonely experience."

Irt 1970, the only mention
made in the Phi of Homecoming
was that it existed and there
would be a Concert Friday night
and the game Saturday followed
by a grain party in Red Square.
hi the 1955 Homecoming issue
of the Phi the E.C. stated that
its policy against drinking in
public would be strictly enforced
at that years game._ One of the
classes listed for a reunion in
1970 was the class of 1925.
Things had changed '

By 1971 the only mention of

.Homecoming after the fact was

a small picture, in the lower left
hand comer of the front page, of
Shillington kissing the Queen.
But Washington and Lee was
never a big school. Never a
school with teeming thousands

cheer the Generals and so things
will change. But there are some
things here that will never
change. On that first Homecming
day, back in 1925, G.I_-I. Denny,
fonner president of Washington
and Lee, spoke to the alumni.
"Take away from many a
college its ertdowmertt a.nd what
is left?" said Denny, "But strip
the Washington and Lee Campus
of every building and every
dollar, and there are left some
things more precious than silver
and gold." I'm glad that hasn't
changed.

This Poem was in the 1925
alunuti magazine:

By the banks of old North
River, winding lazy round

the hill,

To the Dear old college
campus, my thoughts are

tunting still;

For the college bells are
calling, and I know they

say to me,

"Come you back, you old
alumnus, back to Washing-

Wh°“ ‘“°“E*"5 °f V‘°‘"‘““ “’°‘° that could fill Wilson Field to ton and 
from page 1 "'°'“ 939° 1

tentative Chart (#4) and remained on its top 10 for two solid
months The record went on to garner praise from such
mainstream press staples as Rolling Stone and Musician.

Along with the release of Boylan Heights, The Cormells
embarked on their first rtationwide tour, eaming them many
new fans outside of the South. Their "wholesome boy”
appeal and college popularity continuously gain them thousand
of offers to play homecoming gigs and {rat parties, as they
remain cool enough to repeatedly sell out 1500 seat venues
and hold all-time attendance records in any number of clubs
throughout the country. The Cormells were quickly earning a
name for themselves in the music industry.

As they toured through-out the year, The Cormells began
work on their third LP, Fun & Games and hired producer
Gary Sntith, known best for his work with The Pixies and
Throwing Muses. Gary set out to make Fun & Game: an
even more accurate reflection of The Connells‘ live show.
“Gary wanted to get some of the punch that we have live into
the recording," claims lead-singer Doug MacMillan. Fun 4!
Games released on TVT Records in April 1989, quickly
lodged the Conrtells in the top 10 on every Modern Rock
chart in existence including Gavin, Billboard, Rockpool and
CM] while taking great strides at mainstream AOR radio.
Fun & Games continues to place The Cormells in the fore-
front of the music scene, and once again wins The Comells
an overwhelming response on the national front.

Family Life," in Moot Court
Room in Lewis Hall.

Saturday's events begin with
a performance by the urti-
versity's choral ensembles Jubi-
Lee and Southern Comfort in
Lee Chapel at 10 a.m., followed
by an alumni luncheon at noon
on the upper athletic field.

After the luncheon, the foot-
ball Generals will clash with
Maryville at 2 p.m. on Wilson
Field. A -garne reception
will be held at the W&L Alumni
House at 4:30.

There is something for every-
one this weekend. Many other
activities are scheduled including
a bevy of athletic contests, lec-
tures, and concerts. See page
two of the Homecorrting Supple-
ment for a complete rundown of
the weekend's events.

Have a great weekertd!

 °°¢

The Ring-tum Phi Homecoming Supptement, October 5, 1989

E'he gudent
Activiti  Board
pres: I
Lost In The   Market
Flight of Mavis
fd

Ho 0 ‘ng
  ‘ 9  
i: II _; u 9 ee Un'vers v

Friday,  6th, 1939

Time: 9:00-1:00 a.m at e Pavilion
Tickets: $6.06‘ a 
Pre-SaIe:d.,Oct 4th
“ urs., -:t. 5th,
ri., Oct. rth

/_y In Front of The Co-op 
Tic ts will be $5.0 0 during the -_a|e

Live Drive will we provided from
9:00 p.m. :00 a.m.
They will be servi g from The Corral,

 all Fraternity houses; :; The University Center.  ‘

