i
i
I

   

0112 Rt

 l,)NWtHi:§’l"Y' 2 
 5 wt. 2.“ ““*e.~‘W{
§.£.¥.?*!T.TON, VA. 

JAN29

ug-

I990

tum Iﬂlii

VOLUME 89, NO. 15

DG opts

fto delay

I
«
1
I

1

‘ .

O

I
v
4
4
1
a
A
I
9
Q l

1

b1‘

start-up

By Allsann McGloln
Staff Reporter

‘ hellenic Association.

Delta Gamma Women’s Fraternity
decided to delay colonization at
Washington and Lee, cancelling all
rush activities for the rest of the
week.

After meeting with the Panhellenic
Council Wednesday night, Delta
Gamma national representatives and
the PHC agreed that greater interest
and numbers are needed to form a
strong chapter.

“Delta Gamma does not want to
come on and be a weak link,” said
Marnie O’Brien, the chapter consul-
tant for Kappa Kappa Gamma.

O’Brien said the addition of a
weak chapter would be undesirable
for both Delta Gamma and the Pan-
She also said
that DG still wants to colonize but
they want to have a strong chapter.

Despite the controversy over Delta
Ganirna’s colonization being delayed
until after formal Rush, rushing along
with the other three groups probably
would not have changed the situation,
O’Brien said.

According to quota, each sorority

would have been able to extend ap-‘

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

From the W&L News Office

The last portrait painted of
Gen. Robert E. Lee during his life-
time — one of only three such
paintings — came home Friday for
the general’s 184th birthday.

The painting, by Swiss artist
Frank Buchser, will hang perma-
nently in the Swiss Embassy in
Washington, D.C. A reception,
hosted by Swiss ambassador
Eduoard Brunner for the Washing-
ton chapter of the W&L Alumni
Association, took place Friday at
the embassy.

According to Charles Bracelen
Flood, author of Lee.‘ The Last
Years, a group of Swiss liberals
decided to commission a painting
to celebrate the Union victory in
the Civil War. The painting was to
hang in the Swiss parliament build-
ing in Beme.

Buchser, a piano-maker-tum-
ed-artist whose reputation for
brawling and wornanizing often got
him in trouble in his homeland,
grabbed the chance to travel
abroad. He travelled to the United
States, where he painted the por-
traits of President Andrew John-
son, Secretary of State William H.
Seward and Gen. William Tecum-
seh Sherman.

Buchser’s patrons wanted a
painting of Gen. Ulysses S. Grant,
but Grant had repeatedly refused to

A birthday present for Lee

JANUARY 25, 1990

Housing law
to hit students

Some landlords will face
permit hearing, stricter rules

By Andrew Waters
Staff Reporter

Some Washington and Lee stu-
dents who live in a house or apart-
ment in town with more than four
people may have to ﬁnd somewhere
else to live next year.

Under a Lexington city ordinance,
landlords with large capacity houses
will need to have a conditional use
permit after July in order to house
more than four unrelated people
under the same roof.

To qualify for the perrriit, houses
will have to meet public health,
safety and welfare requirements under
a standard Building Ofﬁcials & Code
Administrators regulation.

Houses must also have at least
one bedroom for each occupant and
no more than 10 occupants.

In addition, property owners will
be required to provide adequate park-
ing, landscaping, buffers and fences
to “mitigate potentially negative
impacts” on adjoining properties.

“If a house is in good physical

create a problem unless he is denied
a conditional use permit by the city.

“The only problem it's going to
be is if there are a lot of people who
oppose this at the public hearing,”
Steanis said.

The first public hearing before the
planning commission is scheduled for
Feb. 8. The commission will make
recommendations to city council,
which will make the ﬁnal decision.

“The thing that disturbs me the
most is that we were encouraged to
buy these houses because they were
uninhabited and we made all these
changes, Streams said, “and now
they’ve changed the rules in mid-
stream.”

King said the changes in the law
do not affect fraternity houses be-
cause they are only allowed in certain
areas anyway. Because of the noise,
King said, fraternity houses cannot be
built in single family districts.

The amendment to an existing
ordinance, drafted in December 1987,
redeﬁned family to include four unre-
lated people who live together.

The number was changed from
two after the city council, responding
to complaints about noncompliance
with the law, compared housing codes
in Lexington with those in other
college communities, King said.

“Anywhere you go these days it
is more typical than not to ﬁnd peo-
ple coming together to find housing
arrangements,” King said.

D Please see RENT page 7

WOI'Tl9I"l

Panhellenic currently has a voice on all
issues but can only vote on Panhellenic
matters. Panhellenic President Jane Lee Joyce
said she feels the Panhellenic association
represents a signiﬁcant number of women at
Washington and Lee. .

Intramurals may also be offered for th
women at Washington and Lee in the near
future. While there has not been much
interest in the past for women’s intramurals,
the Panhellenic Council has the opportunity to
get this organized for any interested sorority

Del Clark, who currently organizes and
schedules all of the men’s intramural events,
has volunteered to do the same for the

 

Students

to dance
for MDA

By Alesha Priebe
Senior Copy Editor

‘Bands will take to the stage and
dancers to the ﬂoor when Washington
and Lee holds its 12th Annual Mus-
cular Dystrophy Superdance on Feb.
2-3 at the pavilion.

Raising money to beneﬁt the
Muscular Dystrophy Association has
become a tradition at W&L. Any
student, faculty member or local
resident who donates at least $100 in
collected funds is eligible to dance at
the front of the pavilion throughout
the weekend. The total from these
dancers, as well as pledges received

0‘ proximately 22 bids. Even with the Sit Buchsﬁf I110“-ghl that if he f}(1)ndi7ti0n agd lnefels $6 réguigemepts
‘ 4 option of extended open bidding, could do a ﬁne painting of Lee and thzre S no.‘ fslé. or Me C‘ Y ‘gvnylnﬁ
~ Delta Gamma’s total probably would Show it to Grant, that Grant would K. Perl‘: ’,,B {Hy 1 ailggei) ffep
' " not have increased enough to make consent. He never did. originally wanted the general, then had worn to his son's wedding. In wiﬁghsaate a h;d”[‘_(:1 0 ert. ul ﬁling:

the chapter competitive with the Buchser arrived in Lexington president of Washington College, to recognition of the past, on a table Code w_[h In , 1 edmegnmgt “oh
established sororities, O’Brien said_ unannounced in the fall of 1869. pose in his uniform, but Lee re- beside the general Buchser arranged adde: 1 0 mmor a Jus en 5’ e
9 Panhellenic pub1ici[y,HouSing and He convinced Lee, who did not fused, stating: “I am a soldier no the sword, sword belt, sash and Biil Steams who Owns Seven
Extension Chainnan Wendy Wilson like to pose for even a photograph, longer.” The general chose instead uniform coat Lee had worn at large capacity imildings that house
saiq’ HA, Kilisnpoint everymingvs 51111 to sit for the painting. The artist to wear a black broadcloth suit he Appomattox. W&L students, said the changes he
:I1’a,1:Ct21°o:;;tio‘:i§arc§:cEr:t: Gm" has to must under the law will not
I I I I
Established sororities pledge eighty-four
Theta pledged 26. turn over responsibility to the newly elected Chi Omega will hold the ofﬁces of Vice-
BY Ansan“ M°GI°i“ After Delta Gamma’s colonization, open officers and delegates next Tuesday following President and Extension and Publicity
- Staff Repmter bidding will begin for all four sororities on the council meeting. Chairman.
February 5th. The sororities will have an Panhellenic ofﬁces work on a rotating While Delta Gamma will not hold an
Eighty-four women accepted bids Saturday opportunity to extend bids beyond quota if method and each sorority will have a new office on the Panhellenic Council until they
from Chi Omega, Kappa Alpha Theta, and they have already extended the full 29. position on the council. For example, those have been installed, they will have voice on
Kappa Kappa Garrirna bringing the first If bids were not accepted by some rushees ofﬁces held by Kappa Kappa Gamma will be all issues.
formal sorority Rush at Washington and Lee the chapter will have the option of extending Panhellenic President and Membership Courtney Payne, rejoicing in her
University to a close. additional bids as long as they do not exceed Selection Chairman. These offices were abundance of free time with the conclusion of
Friday night, following the preference chapter total, set at 87 women last year. formerly held by Kappa Alpha Theta. Rush, remarked on how well managed and
N parties, the Panhellenic Council set quota at Following rush each chapter greatly New officers will be chosen tomorrow “shockingly smoothly rush went."
\. 29 by dividing the number of girls who ﬁlled increased in size with Kappa Alpha Theta night and will go before their respective “I think it was a wonderful first time,”
..‘.. out preference cards by the three sororities. numbering about 100 active members as well chapters for a vote next Monday. Payne added. women.
Quota was the number of bids each sorority as pledges. Chi Omega and Kappa Kappa The ofﬁce that will be held by Kappa Panhellenic Association will also be
was allowed to extend. Gamma have not yet made available the size Alpha Theta is Secretary-Treasurer. The submitting a proposal to the Student Affairs
Chi Omega and Kappa Kappa Gamma of their chapters following Rush. Kappa Alpha Theta delegate will also hold Committee requesting full vote on all matters
each pledged 29 women while Kappa Alpha With Rush over, Panhellenic council will the position of Housing-Prograrn Chairman. concerning the student body. sororities.
1
7 noise citations g've t
Saturday night, Nash said. houses and should try to keep people
By Chuck Bron Sigma Chi received two noise inside during parties.
Staff Report" violations and Kappa Alpha, Phi “The town is not going to stand
Gamma Delta, Phi Kappa Sigma, Pi for this. They can make life misera-
, Seven noise violations were hand- Kappa Alpha and Sigrna Nu each ble for us socially if they want,”
, ed out to six Washington and Lee received a noise violation, Nash said. Nash said.
fraternities last Saturday night, the Sigma Chi and Sigma Nu plan to Additionally, Nash and Atkins
most given out in one weekend all appeal their tickets in court in March, discussed the details of the Fraternity
year, Interfratemity Council President and will not face the IFC’s Judicial House Renovation Steering Commit-
Kevin Nash said at the IFC meeting Board until their court dates. The tee meeting last Monday. They said
Tuesday night. other fraternities received one week the proposed construction schedule
Nash described the weekend as of social probation from the Judicial shows Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s renova-
‘ “socially pretty lousy” and Board. tion due to begin in April and Beta
“embarassing.” Lexington Police The ticketed fraternities are also Theta Pi, Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Nu,
Chief B.M. Beard told Nash the forbidden by law to apply for another Phi Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta
president of one of the fratemitites noise permit for ten days. “We had Theta’s to begin in June.
was arrested for not being able to a great record up to this point this Atkins said up to 127 fraternity president Wilson Speaking at the Founders Day Ceremony Friday_
control the members of his house, year,” Associate Dean of Students members will be without housing at -
Nash said. Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said at the a given time, but the university can I
_ Beard also told Nash another meeting. house 50 of them in campus housing. ’
fraternity president was almost ar- Nash suggested to the fraternities The university may lease houses U  S  S I d e n C
rested because of drunkenness and the that in order to minirnalize future around town to further accommodate
\ police were verbally abused at many violations, they should keep sober students without a place to stay, .
f of the fraternities they visited on people at entrances and exits to the Atkins said. n  f  I S O n
6

By Pat Lopes
Assignment Editor

Washington and Lee President
John D. Wilson said he is not a
candidate for the presidency of the
University of Virginia, although he
has been contacted by UVa ofﬁcials.

“My attachment and affection for
Washington and Lee were the main
reasons I didn’t respond to the offer
for the presidency,” Wilson said.

“I'm not a candidate now and
I’ve never declared a candidacy,”
Wilson continued.

Wilson was named as a possible
candidate in a story printed in The
Daily Progress of Charlottesville on
Jan. 6.

Also named in the story as possible
candidates were Paul Verkuil, presi-
dent of William and Mary, Stanley
Ikenberry, president of the University

    

Kappa clapping
Sororities welcomed their pledges Saturday with
v. clapping and spirited songs. Eighty-four women

eventually joined one of W&L’s sororities following
the week-long Rush. Photo by David Daves.

4

V

 

of Illinois and several senior faculty
members at UVa.

At this point in the selection
process any list of candidates is

based on speculation, according to

UVa . Director of University News
Louise Dudley.

Dudley said the selection process is
conducted under wraps because re-
leasing the names of people under
consideration would disrupt can-
didates’ current work.

According to Dudley, the presi-
dential selection committee has not
even announced the date that a can-
didate list will be presented to the
UVa Board of Visitors.

The committee has been working
since last October, when UVa Presi-
dent Robert M. O’Neil announced he
would step down in July to become
the first director of the Thomas Jef-
ferson Center for the Protection of
Free Expression at UVa.

during the event, is donated to MDA.

Battle of the Bands, a competition
among local bands, will provide
Friday night's music. The line-up
includes Lost in the Supermarket,
Cho, Tiny Purple Fishes, Skjellyfetty,
Hey Baby Zoo, and The Red Front,
a Hampden-Sydney band. The two
Battle of the Bands ﬁnalists will play
again on Saturday night, followed by
the Motown band Black and Blue and
Let's Active, a progressive band.

Last year Superdance surpassed its
goal by raising $30,692. This year’s
goal is $30,000, said Co-Chairman
Christie Champlin.

“The fraternities are our largest
source of support and we hope this
continues. This year we hope to gain
support from the sororities as well,”

‘ Champlin said.

Prizes will be given to the dancers
who raise the most money. The grand
prize, a four-night trip to Freeport,

El Please see MDA page 6

  

OPINION

A good rush rule
isn’t too popular

Section V, Part C of the Washington and Lee Panhellenic
Association’s Formal Rush Rules states:

During the designated nights of Rush, no sorority active
or‘ pledge will be allowed to attend any collegiate social
ﬁtnctions, including fraternity parties.

Seems simple enough — or at least it seemed simple
enough to the women of W&L’s three sororities when they
passed it last spring.

But when they heard the rule. again — two days before
Rush week — it did not seem simple anymore. Suddenly,
people didn’t understand, they just couldn’t remember where
that rule came from and were sure they didn’t vote for it.

Lee Chapel turned into an arena where the Panhellenic
Association’s approximately 300 members shouted
objections at the unfortunate delegate assigned to read the
Rush rules. One voice raised above the rest demanded:
“Why can’t we change the rule right now, RIGHT

“NOW?!” Another voice: “Can we go to the Palms?
Fraternity parties? DINNER?” Others wondered if the
people complaining would turn to dust if they did not get
to go out for one week.

Two days later, the Panhellenic Council had to issue the
following “Explanation of Part V, Section C” — the simple
rule — which contained its purpose: '

To avoid social contact which will put an active or a
pledge in a position where she may discuss Rush with
anyone who is not in her sorority, especially the rushees or
other W&L students (i.e. fraternity parties, the Palms or
Spanky’s). It is advised that after the night's rush activities
have terminated, actives and pledges return to where they
live (unless you are studying, obviously), so that neither the
temptation nor the opportunity to discuss Rush with persons
who are not members of your sorority could arise. If you
choose to socialize with members of you own sorority in
your home, it is your responsibility to be certain that this
will not lead to social contact with others outside your
sorority.

This rule does not exclude you from attending all-school
events (i.e. W&L basketball game), but beware of discussing
anything regarding Rush while at these events.

PS. The excuse "I didn’t know” will not work here.

A violation of this rule is considered "a “minor” infraction
by the PHC. As of now, no women were turned in to the
PHC for violating this rule. If they had been, penalties
might have been as severe as deprivation of social
privileges for the whole chapter, not just those involved.

Now think about it. Realistically, the rule applied to just
one night. Wednesday night, all sorority women were
involved in membership selection until the wee hours, and
usually nothing socially pressing is scheduled for Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday or Thursday nights. So that leaves Friday.

It happened that on the Friday night in question several
“big” fraternity events had been scheduled. This is
unfortunate. But when you consider how important Rush is,
and the fact that you should be concentrating on the welfare
of your sorority and the rushees and not on your own social
concerns, is one night so important?

The rule was not made to GET sorority women. It was
made to spare feelings from being hurt by seemingly
harmless remarks made in any social setting during this
sensitive week.

Elected representatives from each sorority drafted the rule,
and each chapter voted on it separately. At the time, it
seemed like the best thing to do for everyone involved. It
still is the best thing. The fact that other circumstances
changed around the rule doesn’t alter its validity.

Just remember, next time you’re asked to vote on
something like this, consider carefully the implications of
your decision. When you raise your hand to vote, be
prepared to stick by your decision.

Quote of the week

If you’re running an ilicit business what's $1,500? —
City Manager Joseph King on Lexington’s big-bucks tax on
massage parlors.

 

The Ring-tum Phl, January 25, 1990

61112 ﬁling-tum lﬁlri

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Editor! Gregory Euston, Stacy Morrison
Associate Editors ................................... ...James Lake, Genierme Mongno
Assignment Editor Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor Pamela Kelley
Sports Editor Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor Alesha Priebe
Editorial Cartoonist Jeff Woodland

Anne Dysart
Advertising Manager Jason Kelley
Circulation Manager .................................... ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

Business Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thtusdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office,
Room 208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in
that week's edition. The Ring-tum Phi observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

E

Classmate recalls Todd SmithE

MY VIEW
By Rick Swagler

EDITOR'S NOTE.‘ Rick Swagler was the editor of
The Ring-turn Phi in 1983 and 1984. This column
ﬁrst appeared in the most recent edition of the
Washington Journalism Review and is reprinted
with permission.

Todd C. Smith started out at The Tampa
Tribune in April 1988 as a reporter on the city
desk. Within a short time he was writing a colunm
on county politics. But what he really wanted was
to be a foreign correspondent. And he was making
progress toward his goal.

Just before joining the Tribune, he had spent
several months freelancing in Honduras and
Nicaragua, which included a 10-week, 200-mile
stint travelling with the contras. Later, the Tribune
sent the 28-year-old reporter, who was ﬂuent in
Spanish, to cover the drug-related violence
wracking Colombia. That resulted in a two—part
series.

But last September, when Smith asked for an
assignment to Peru, a prime coca-growing region,
his editors refused. Smith had wanted to cover the
municipal elections near Lima, generally considered
a referendum on‘ the’ upcoming ‘national elections. ‘_
And he wanted to continue probing drug
trafficking. Instead, the editors said that they might
later send him to cover Peru's presidential election.
His assignment editor, Diane Egner, says there
were also safety concerns.

Undaunted, Smith took two weeks of vacation
and with his own money bought a ticket to Lima.
It was a fatal decision.

In Peru Smith spent two days covering
municipal elections. At some point he contacted
Sally Bowen, a reporter for a local English-
language paper. He stayed one night at the house
in Lima she shares with Sharon Stevenson, a string
for Time and the Miami Herald. Then he set out
for Uchiza, 245 miles northeast of Lima.

The two correspondents had told Smith that
Uchiza, described by many as a lawless cocaine
boom town, could be safely visited by foreign
reporters provided they stayed in groups or with
army soldiers. Smith did neither, reportedly saying
he didn't want to be associated with the anny.

Smith was “very laid back,” Bowen later

recalled. “He was going to do a magazine piece.

No gentlemen
at banquet,
says waiter

On Saturday evening, Jan. 20, I had the rare
opportunity to experience a unique event. It was
the fourth annual Lee-Jackson Banquet, which
honored those heroic men and also celebrated the
concept of the Southern gentleman and the
Confederacy. Members of the Washington and
Lee community were there, as well as honored
guests. I witnessed this event as an objective
observer, working as a waiter. My comments
should not be construed as derogatory to the
group, as I feel compelled to make some random
observations.

I observed people of honor and integrity enter
the room, dressed formally and intent with
purpose. I saw many familiar and different faces,
and I was anxious to see how the evening would
transpire.

An interesting prayer began the evening
asking for strength to help those who do not
understand the group’s purpose to understand it
better. They prayed for those who taint the
southern gentleman ideology with racism,
ignorance, and hypocrisy.

The festivities began with a hearty meal and
considerable drinking. Then there was song. They
sang “Dixie,” “Bonnie Blue Flag," and an
interesting song written by some of the members
of the group called “Lincoln Killed the
Constitution.” Its refrain went like this: “Lincoln
killed the Constitution, Lincoln killed the
Constitution, Lincoln killed the Constitution, and
danced on its remains." It also claimed that
Brennan and Blackrnun killed the Constitution. I
did not agree with those statements.

I heard toasts made to the honorable Gen.

 

Todd Smith

We told him all the precautions he should take.”

Smith ﬂew to Tarapoto, which has the only
airport in the region, on Nov. 15. No one is certain
how he reached ' Uchiza, but he visited the
agricultural co-op there and asked about the United
Nations’ plan to persuade coca growers to switch
to other crops. '

Smith had been expected to fly out of Lima on
the following Sunday evening. When Bowen and
Stevenson did not hear from him, they attempted
to track him by radio. Contacts were made with
the cooperative Smith had visited, but reports were
sketchy. Sound quality from the remote region was
poor, and Bowen noted that the people of Uchiza
are “very wary about what they say” on the air.
When there was still no word from Smith on
Monday, Stevenson called the Tribune.

A body, later identified as Smith’s, was found
the next day near a soccer ﬁeld in Uchiza. Beside
it, a note read: “in this way die American spies
linked to the Pentagon. Death to North American
Imperialism; Long live the Communist Party. Long
live the war of the people.” Smith had been
severely beaten. Autopsy reports later showed that
his neck had been broken by pressure from a rope.

Tribune Executive Editor H. Doyle Harvill went
to Lima to identify the body and bring it back to
Tallahassee.

Precisely what happened to Smith is not known.
He was last seen alive at the Uchiza airstrip on

LETTERS

Robert E. Lee and to the preservation of the
Southern gentleman. There was a toast
concerning “Danm Yankees,” i.e., people who
are from the North. I heard a voice of reason
toast to the Soutlr’s future and ask to put the
past behind themselves (in reference to the song
I quoted). Not many people heard him, since
very few toasted to that.

I saw a few intoxicated people fall and knock
over a table, making quite a mess. Some guests,
who happened to be my peers, decided to show
some aggression towards me and my co-workers.
They demanded service through some insulting
remarks and gestures, and when it was done to
their disapproval, one grabbed a waiter by the
shirt and another gentleman proceeded to tell me
my duties as a waiter. He said that guests could
act how they please, they do not need to say
“please” or “thank you,” and continued to
harass and criticize us. And then came the
apologies. I was offered money by one of my
offenders to make amends for his friends’
actions. I felt degraded by that, so I refused.
Ever since, I have received apologies from
several people, but the evening's events were not
erased from my mind.

As the night commenced people asked me to
try and understand the group’s purpose. You may
be as confused as I was, but I learned their sole
intent is holding this banquet every year. That is
all they do. I appreciate the concept of being a
gentleman, though I am not from the South. I
think being a gentleman constitutes respect for
others, integrity and proper self-conduct. I did
not see those aspects embodied in the group.
That evening I felt embittered and degraded, and
now I find it impossible not to feel that way. I
still do not understand the elusive ideals of the
organization, and I never will if this is how they
are celebrated. Until I understand, I hope the
group does not represent the Southern majority.
Sincerely,

Ryan M. Kull, ’92

Sunday, waiting for a ﬂight to Tarapoto on his '
way back to Lima. Peruvian newspapers and g
officials say he was kidnapped from the airport by
“Shining Path” guerrillas and then turned over to ’
Colombian drug lords as a drug agent for $30,000. ,
An official in the American embassy, while
noting that alliances between the drug traffickers 0
and the group couldn't be ruled out, has urged ,.
caution in evaluating the reports. Various officials ‘
have speculated that the note found with Smith was I
faked by drug cartel members to point the furger ‘
back to the Shining Path, which is widely known

to extort money from coca growers. to

According to unconﬁrmed news accounts, the
guerrillas “sold" Smith to a Medellin cartel
member known as “The Rabid One.” La
Republica, a Lima newspaper, said that Srnith’s
credentials, tape recorder, notes and camera had
been confiscated and that he was “brutally
interrogated. ’ '

The Inter—American Press Association has noted
that “a press card can be a death warrant in those
areas of Latin America where drug traffickers and
guerrillas have formed an alliance.”

According to the Miami Herald, Smith may .

have been mistaken for a DEA agent because U.S.
narcotics officials in the area have posed as

reporters in the past -— a speculation rejected by -

U.S. embassy officials. But the Lirna-based
newsletter Per Report said in January 1989 that a
DEA agent “occasionally traveled in the area
posing as a reporter.”

According to the Herald, sources close to the
army discount the link beaten the guerrillas and
drug leaders and say Smith was killed by the
guerrillas. “A major hurdle in determining the
accuracy of the reports is an ongoing power
struggle between Peru’s army and police forces,"
the Herald said. “Skeptics suspect the interior
minister, who is in charge of the police, may have
fabricated the drug traffickers’ reward story to
embarrass the army. Pem’s army is accused by
some of being too tolerant of the country’s
estimated 100,000 coca growers."

More than 400 friends and colleagues attended
Todd Smith’s funeral in Tallahassee on November
25. Governor Bob Martinez of Florida was among
them. One speaker, family friend Ruel W. Tyson,
Jr., a journalism instructor at the University of
North Carolina, said: “He went for the story; it
was part of his calling. The truth was in Peru, and
Todd went there.”

Support the
Annual Fund

As the Young Alumni Vice Chairman of the
Washington and Lee Annual Fund, I am
responsible for encouraging greater participation
in the Annual Fund among young alumni.

For those who are not familiar with the
Annual Fund, it is the primary means of
soliciting alumni contributions to the university.
Unlike contributions to the university's
endowment, contributions to the Annual Fund go
directly to the university's operating budget.
Proceeds from the Annual Fund are used to buy
library books, pay faculty salaries, and otherwise
ﬁnance the same costs covered by tuition. In
fact, a strong Armual Fund is what allows W&L
to maintain tuition at a relatively low level,
especially in comparison to other selective
schools cross the country.

Although W&L alumni take great pride in the
university, W&L continually ranks well below
most schools with which we compete in terms of
the percentage of alunmi contributions to the
Annual Fund. Because this lack of participation
is particularly acute among young alumni, we are
making a special effort to encourage alumni who
have graduated since 1981 to contribute to the
Alumni Fund.

Part of this effort will be to emphasize to
current W&L students the importance of the
Annual Fund, beginning with the class of 1990,
who will soon be the youngest of the university's
alumni. In the next several weeks, members of
the class will be contacted by a classmate about
participating in the Annual Fund. I hope that
students, when contacted about the Annual Fund,
will make a pledge and participate fully in the
success of the university.

Bennett L. Ross, ’83

V

 

 

ﬁﬁ

it

A

   

'5
C

3

N

The Ring-tum Phi, January 25, 1990

The Peace Dividend:

Finding it in military restructuring

MY VIEW

By Damon Fensterman

Last week I discussed the budgetary implica-
tions of the so-called “Peace Dividend.” But the
monetary question does not tell the full story.
Equally important is what will actually happen to
our national defense once a substantial position in
Europe is no longer necessary.

One great worry is whether or not it is really
safe to remove our troops from Europe. Once we
leave, our troops will be an ocean away, while the
Soviets will only be a border (or a few borders)
away. Certainly this concern is a legitimate one.
The Soviets have not renounced their military, nor
have they lost their resolve to use it. Moreover,
their goal is still global Marxism. They might yet
use their military to achieve that goal.

However, the warming in U.S.-Soviet relations
seems real enough. Out of economic necessity, the
Soviet Union must reduce its military spending. It
seems likely that the level of cuts they will have
to make to regain stability will seriously reduce
their ability to invade Europe successfully. It would
be entirely appropriate and sound both militarily
and economically to adjust our defensive position
accordingly.

So although we can anticipate a reduction in
tensions and in arms levels, we must act with
caution. So far the Soviets have only offered to

* cut poorly-trained units with outdated equipment. It

is doubtful that such units would have much
importance in an invasion anyway. But once the
real cuts do come, we might finally be able to
“bring the boys home” from Europe.

The question then becomes, how will we make
the cuts in our own military? Given the Penta-
gon’s past performance, perhaps this latter concern
is of greater significance than how many dollars or
how many men are cut.

We have seen through the latter half of the
1980s how budget cutting has adversely affected
the military. However, the problem is not in much
money is spent; rather, the problem lies in how the
cuts are made. Specifically, when Congress reduces
the Pentagon’s budget, politicians and military
figures alike tend to keep their pet programs.
Everyone has their favorite weapon or research
program. Thus, money for new weapons systems is

When Congress reduces the
Pentagon’s budget, poli-
ticians tend to keep their
pet projects. Everyone has
their favorite weapon or re-
search program.

locked in years in advance. The only budget left to
cut is operations, with disastrous results. While
money is spent to develop new weapons, there is
no money for spare parts and repair of existing
weapons. Moreover, men cannot be adequately
trained either for the existing weapons or the new
ones. We thus end up with the best equipped men
in the world — men equipped with weapons that
don't work or ones they don't know how to use.

Now that cuts are coming from a change in
policy rather than a change in the budget, a new
but similar danger looms on the horizon. As our
defense force grows smaller, it is important to
realize that we can’t just cut it back proportionally.
Instead, the entire military (especially the Army)
must be restructured.

Our armed forces, in conjunction with their
NATO counterparts, are designed to perform a
specific task in a certain way. Our troops in
Europe have two purposes. First, they are designed
to deter Soviet adventurism by their mere presence.
Second, in the event of an invasion, they are to
hold on against overwhelming numbers long
enough for reinforcements to arrive, mostly by sea.
To accomplish these tasks, we must maintain a
sizeable force overseas (we have about 250,0()()
troops in Europe). As such, our European defense
force is designed around bigness and locality.

If we remove those troops, the equation changes
dramatically. First, we must change our basic
stance from one of locality to one of mobility.
Currently, only the Rapid Deployment Force is
designed for that kind of mobility. And RDF is
only a few specialized units who in training exer-
cises have not deployed quite as rapidly as ex-
pected. Consequently, our first commitment to
restructuring must be in the area of mobility. We
must have a signiﬁcant number of units that can
be deployed anywhere in the world (but especially
in Europe) at very short notice. To accomplish this

task we must not only train our men differently,
but we must also spend more money on airborne
transport. We need to buy planes like the C-7 in
significant quantities — planes that can carry almost
as many men as the giant C-5’s, but that can land
at hundreds of airstrips all over Europe as opposed
to only a handful of bases with extended runways.
Without these measures, our forces will not even
be a threat to the Soviets, especially if there is a
resurgence of militarism.

Secondly, when we cut back the size of our
armed forces, we must restructure them from top
to bottom. Our military is designed to be a certain
size, which is more or less static. When signifi-
cant force reductions are made, one isn't simply
scaling down the military. That is, a troop cutback
doesn't leave the Armed Forces just smaller. It
leaves them understqﬂed. The solution is not
necessarily to avoid cuts. Rather, the solution is to
restructure the armed forces so they are designed
to be smaller.

Such a restructuring will involve not only the
command structure but will also reach all the way
down to the squad level. Squads, which are groups
of usually 12 men, are the basic building blocks of
the Army. How a squad is equipped and trained
has a great deal to do with how the platoon, the
company, and the whole army fight. In a large
army, squads (except for mechanized infantry)
aren't as well equipped. Size is the main weapon.
In a smaller army, squads must be heavily armed
because there is probably only one line of defense
and no reinforcements.

Thus, we must restructure our Army squads to
more closely resemble the heavily armed and well-
trained Marine squads, where four men might share .
two belt-fed machine guns and a grenade launcher,
in addition to their personal weapons. The purpose
of such a restructuring would not be to make our
smaller Army just as strong as it was before the
cuts. And the idea is not to spend more money on
fewer men. Rather, these changes must be made
just to have a viable defense force. It will be
heavily armed, but it will be nowhere near as
strong as the one we have now.

More money must be spent in some areas, but
dramatic cuts will be made in others. In the end,
even with all the changes, the much-touted peace
dividend can become a reality. And if we restruc-
ture our military properly, we might actually have
a little peace to go along with the money we save.

Should the EC govern the law school?

MY VIEW
By Mitch Neurockl

The Honor System, as it has been pointed
out, exists to protect the university communi-
ty from those individuals who demonstrate
that they cannot be trusted by the rest of us.
Additionally, it serves as a guideline for
conduct, seeking to channel comportment to
match that which was desired by General
Robert E. Lee. How do we decide whether
the ‘conduct of an accused is sufficiently bad
to warrant so severe a penalty as expulsion?

In deciding whether the Honor System at
Washington and Lee is being fairly adminis-
tered, we should take into account the char-
acter of the judging body and actively ques-
tion not its integrity, but its competence to
judge the guilt or innocence of the accused.

It is my position that the Executive Com-
mittee is unqualified to act on honor matters
concerning law students. What follows is both
an attempt to explain why the EC lacks the
ability to adjudicate law school honor matters
and a proposal to resolve the problem.

Events may certainly be viewed a number
of different ways; during the course of an
honor hearing, the advocates for the accused
are likely to try to depict the events that took
place as being of an acceptable character. The

‘prime goal of the defense is to avoid the

portrayal of the accused’s conduct in such a
light as to be less than that standard which
is accepted in the community as a whole.

The problem that arises, then, is what to
do once the testimony has been presented.
The EC retires for deliberations — to decide
what? It is here that the EC members realize
they must not only judge what actually took
place, but also what is the proper conduct for
the accused, given the situation.

In the case of an undergraduate accused,
the process of deciding guilt or innocence is
not overly problematic. The EC uses an
objective standard; its members inject them-
selves into the place of the accused. They
attempt to determine what would have been
the proper course of action, if the accused
has acted improperly. If two-thirds of the EC
decides beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused has intentionally violated the trust of
the university community and can find no
sufficiently excusing circumstances, then they
are entitled to find the accused guilty.

But what happens in the case of a law
student? It is tough enough just to place
yourself in a situation or an environment
where you have never been. It is even tough-
er to place yourself in a new environment
and attempt to judge, out of context, the
acceptability of the conduct of someone who
is already accustomed to that setting.

Without meaning to sound pompous, I
contend that the undergraduate members of
the EC have a fatal inability to understand
the workings of the law school community,
and are in no position to judge the guilt or
innocence of any of its members.

Granted, the three law student members of
the EC can shed some light on the state of

By Merrill Watson

I propose an honor coun-
cil be formed within the
law school, with
exclusive authority to de-
cide an honor matters
within the law school.

affairs on this side of campus. They are,
however, only three votes of 13. It may be
possible to sway the opinions of the under-
graduate members of the committee with ﬁrst-
hand expertise, but this is not the function of
a hearing body. Each member should be
individually capable of judging independently
whether the conduct of the accused was
reasonable under the circumstances. Relying
on the knowledge of three law students as
“experts” is unacceptable when the career of
another student is at stake.

Furthermore, the presence of only three
law students on the EC raises the possibility,
however remote, of a law student being found
guilty even if all three law school representa-
tives dissent.

I see no reason why the law school
should surrender the right to adjudicate honor
matters arising within its own scope of activi-
ties. We are permitting undergraduates to
assert controlling jurisdiction in determining
the guilt or innocence of persons they have
never met, and to pass judgement in matters
about which they know little or nothing. In

short, we have defaulted on our own commit-
ment to justice by blindly submitting to the
authority of strangers. p . _ J

The entire notion of justice in the Honor
System is based upon the fact that it is
student-run, with no faculty interference. I
agree wholeheartedly with this concept. At the
same time, I also believe that for justice to
be done, the accused must be afforded judg-
ment by his peers. Undergraduates are not
members of the law school community; they
are not our peers. Law students may justifi-
ably resent being judged by outsiders, and
especially by outsiders who are only 18 years
old. By the same token, undergraduate and
law school communities are part of one big
“family" at the university. In many respects,
this is true: we share many social functions,
dining facilities, and budgetary problems. One
would not find it difficult to agree on the
acceptability of having a unitary body to
decide on a course of action regarding these
common issues.

It does not follow, however, that the
responsibility and authority to pass judgment
on honor matters should rest with a body
made up of a cross-section of the university
as a whole. For justice to be done, students
accused of honor violations ‘should receive the
benefit of judgement by their peers. It is
time, in my view, to detach the law school
from undergraduate jurisdiction in honor mat-
ters, and vice versa.

I propose an honor council be formed
within the law school, with exclusive authori-
ty to decide on honor matters taking place

‘ TALKBACK

{T

V The E C ‘shouldv ‘ne ver
‘have authority where it

does not possess exper-
tise. Honor offenses with-
in the law school should
be handled there. Period.

within the law school. A seven-member panel,
made up of two elected representatives from
each class, plus one member elected at large,
would be responsible for investigating possi-
ble honor offenses and conducting hearings if,
from the evidence found, it appears likely that
an honor offense has been committed.

The creation of such a body will eliminate
the problems in perspective which plague the
current EC in honor matters involving law
students. It will also relieve the investigation
process of wasted time spent determining
normal courses of conduct in the law school.
The undergraduates would also be freed of
the unfair burden of being judged by students
from outside their community.

I do not mean to suggest that the EC be
emasculated in any other sense. I acknowl-

i

edge its authority to decide upon policies for

budgets of student organizations, social
events, etc. My point is that the EC should
never have authority where it does not also
possess expertise. Honor offenses within the
law school should be handled within the law
school. Period.

 

Photos by Erik Bertelsen

What did you think of sorority Rush?

singing ‘Pat’.”

Katy Roggenburk, ‘91, Philadel-
phia, Pa. and Joan Schaper, ‘93,
Neenak, Wis. — “We had fun

N.C. — “I

Culllns Carrlker, ‘92, Charlotte,

enjoyed meeting the

freshman girls and I think all of

our hard work paid off as illus-
trated by the three strong pledge

classes.”

Johnathan Myer, ‘91, La Jolla,
Calif. — “Girls stress too much.”

 

weird still.’ ’

Marcus Miller, ‘92, Chesapeake,
Va. — “I think it’s all pretty

Megan Reese, ‘93, St. Louis,
Mo. — “I am happy with the way
it was handled, and at the number
of great girls we got to meet, and
I am really happy with what I
chose.

 

  

OPINION ‘

The Ftlng-tum Phl, January 25, 1990

Alumnis

objects

to ‘sex’ review

MY VIEW
By Jamie Berger

Mr. Peppers’ article in last
week’s Phi regarding sex, lies, and
videotape was a fascinating expo-
sition on his own naivete, but not
much as a movie review. Perhaps
Mr. Peppers’ sagacious Journalism
101 professor failed to mention
that a reviewer should have some
comprehension of his topic before
writing an article.

The review cited many prob-
lenis with the movie. Here is a list
of the most noteworthy:

12 The ﬁlm’s “shocking” title
is a potential trafﬁc hazard, and
will cause the grandmothers of
Lexington to blush.

2. The theater failed to hand
out Cliff Notes on the movie. (I
have enclosed a Cliff Notes ver-
sion in this colurrin for Mr. Pep-
pers’ sake).

3. The movie’s “bizarre sexual
perversity" reminded him of other
movies he didn’t understand, like
Blue Velvet.

4. The acting is sometimes
subtle, requiring the viewer to
actually listen to the dialogue.

5. The characters discuss and
engage in sex. Sometimes (Egadl)
without a partner(see #3 above).

6. The ﬁlm’s technical limita-
tions may easily distract those who
are already not paying attention to
the dialogue(see #4 above).

The main target of Mr. Pep-
pers’ scorn is the Graham Dalton
character, played by James Spader.
The reviewer is dismayed by the
character's insistence on living a
“one key” existence, free of al-
most all the responsibilities that
the keys represent,

Although extreme, I know of
few people who have not been
tempted by the one key life; the
Amish obviously agree since they
have opted for a no-key existence
and seem quite happy about it.
Why has this character abandoned
his old life for this one-key ver-
sion? What made the Spader char-
acter develop diametrically opposed
to his old, college friend, (the
philandering lawyer played by
Peter Gallagher)? These are the
questions director/writer Steven
Soderbergh is asking the audience
to consider. Meanwhile, Phi re-
viewer Peppers doesn’t even recog-
nize there were any questions.
Thus, I suppose, his need for Cliff
Notes.

Mr. Peppers claims to enjoy
the line about lawyers being the
lowest form of life. Here the re-
viewer not only misquotes the line
but misses the central theme of the

movie in the process. Graham
states that lawyers are the second
lowest form of life, liars being the
very lowest. Although this impor-
tant comment was lost on Mr.
Peppers, it came through loud and
clear to the John Mulraney char-
acter, who in a brief ﬁt of self-
awareness calls himself the “ﬁrst
and second" lowest form of life.

Strip away the “sex” and
“videotape" and one comes to the
crux of the matter, which are the
lies. Graham completely rejects
lies, (at least outwardly), while
John wraps himself in them. Pres-
ented with an alternative, the fe-
male characters gravitate towards
Graham and away from John.

More amusing was Mr. Pep-
pers’ high dudgeon over the sexual
content of the ﬁlm. If references to
masturbation and videotapes of
women talking about sex are “bi-
zarre sexual perversions” that
caused Mr. Peppers to be “utterly
bafﬂed,” then I would suggest that
one hour of “Geraldo” would
send him into a near catatonic
state. Once again, Mr. Peppers is
so busy being bafﬂed and per-
plexed he doesn’t consider any
substantive questions about the
movie. Could it be that the review
was actually written by Tipper
Gore under a nom de plume?

Finally, when the reviewer at-
tempts to actually read something
into the movie he completely
misses the mark. The review cites
the ﬁlm’s poor technical quality.
Mr. Peppers ﬁnds this ruse dis-
ingenious on Mr. Soderberghs part,
but don’t worry because he
“doesn’t take long to ﬁgure out
the symbolism of the director's
style.” If you believe that, I have
great foot bridge in Lexington I’d
like to sell you. The audio is poor,
and the ﬁlm grainy for a simple
reason — money. Really a lack
thereof since the movie was shot
on a shoestring budget. Did the
Phi pan She's Gotta Have It be-
cause Spike Lee couldn't afford
color ﬁlm?

Yes Mr. Peppers, ranking sex,
lies, and videotape with Uncle
Buck does indeed conﬁrm your
level of sophistication —- or should
I say sophistry. ‘

Now, for the sake of clariﬁca-
tion, I provide the aforementioned
Cliff Notes.

Paragraph 1: Jamie suggests
that the Phi reviewer doesn’t know
what he is talking about. Brings up
the now famous Mr. Gaherty.

Paragraph 2: A synopsis is pro-
vided of Mr. Peppers’ rriisgivings
about the ﬁlm. The author seems
to imply that the reviewer’s com-
plaints are laughable.

0 See BERGER page 5

Right

W

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Standard 10% Discount
-With Student I.D.

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St." ,
Lexington, Va. 24450

DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDEJDDDDDDDDDDD

GoesDown

W1thTheSun
At;Massanutten.

$20.
no.

$16.’
$10.
Sk'R‘?ﬂtaI

If you’re in college, you're eligible for these great discounts on Twilight
Skiing every Monday, from 12:30pm to 10 pm, and Friday, from 12:30 pm
to 11pm. It doesn t matter whether you're full or part—time. Just show a valid
student ID and hit Massanutten’s two new slopes and ride the new

Quad Chairlift.

Ski

Pll

v 9
10 Miles East Of Harrisonbuig, Virginia on Route 33,

Mayrx>tbeiisedwitfiariyotlierspec'riliateord'scourir.

Solving ‘perplexing mysteries’

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

In an effort to satisfy my female
editor’s ardent desire for a fulﬁlling
journalistic encounter, I will endeavor
to penetrate the virginal landscape of
current affairs by thrusting my virile
writing utensil into yet another topical
story.

In this article I have decided to
address those perplexing mysteries of
human existence that have frustrated
philosophers since the old days when
mankind was still ﬂoating around in
that'post—big bang, evolutionary bowl
of clam chowder, and journalists were
allowed to tell careless readers to go
back and slowly re-read the ﬁrst
sentence of their articles.

The ﬁrst perplexing mystery in-
volves movie theaters, where people
have historically gone to avoid talk-

ing to first dates or family members.
For some strange reason, a subversive
and highly annoying group of people
persist in clapping at the end of
emotional movies such as E.T., in
which an ugly, extra-terrestrial crea-
ture is integrated into American soci-
ety after proving he can use a tele-
phone and ride a ﬂying bicycle. Do
these movie clappers believe that the
cast and producers of E.T. are sitting
near them in the theater and deserve
to be rewarded? Perhaps the clappers
are all addicted to -an expensive psy-
chedelic drug that is dispensed freely
to anyone with the nerve to clap at
the end of a movie. Maybe the clap-
pers have been told by Ann Landers
or Oprah Winfrey that daily clapping
will bring them wealth, love and a
new wardrobe. Maybe the movie
clappers also clap when they hear a
good song on the radio. Maybe we
should move on to another perplexing
mystery. (Readers who think this is a

good idea should now applaud).

Perplexlng mystery #2: Why is
every motel room in the solar system,
even those that have vibrating beds,
furnished with at least one Bible?

Answer: Back before they in-
vented churches, pious families woke
up early Sunday, put on their best
clothes, checked into a motel room
and without hesitation, turned on the
vibrating beds. Of course, I’m only
joking. Motels provide Bibles so
patrons have drug-free alternatives to
staying up late and watching porn
ﬂicks.

Perplexlng mystery #3: How
come the corporate world has been
allowed to take over college football
to such an extent that the Orange
Bowl is now referred to as the
“Beatrice-Mutual of Omaha-Toyota-
Drink Florida Orange (Juice) Bowl?”

Answer: I have no idea but let's
just thank God that journalism is free
from any type of corporate inﬂuence

(eat Cap'n Crunch Cereal and ﬂy
Delta Airlines).

Perplexlng mystery #4: What
happens to all the gum that people
constantly spit out onto the ground?

Answer: According to the person
who answers the phone at the Bazoo-

V

V4

6

vﬁvﬁ

ta

ka Joe Gum factory, all_ the old gum »

pieces bonded together (literally),

teamed up with an indigenous rock ‘

faction and lobbied to gain control of
a layer of the earth’s crust.

Perplexlng mystery #5: What
inﬂuenced me to write an article that
proves beyond a shadow of a doubt
that I deserve to be locked up in a
building with people who express
themselves by drooling?

Answer: Actually, I had planned
to write an award—winning editorial
on developments in Eastern Europe
when it occurred to me that I keep
up with current events by reading
novels and, consequently, know noth-
ing about the subject.

Revamping the Episcopal Church

MY VIEW

By George Nomikos and
J. Cameron Humphries

And there is no health in us.
— General Confession, 1928 Book of
Common Prayer

I was recently telling a friend that
the presiding bishop of the Episcopal
Church was to visit Lexington. He
asked what the presiding bishop was,
and when I replied that he was the
spiritual leader of our church, he
stated that he did not realize our
church had a spiritual leader —— nei-
ther do most Episcopalians, nor
should they.

In the past 20 years, membership
within the Church has declined by 28
percent, more than any other main-
stream denomination. It is odd as the
Church enters its decade of Evan-
gelism, with the goal of spreading the
Gospel to every non-Christian, the
Church cannot deﬁne its own doc-
trine, much less maintain its mem-
bership. Perhaps the greatest chal-
lenge of the decade will not be ex-
panding church communicants, but
re-establishing ﬁrm ecclesiastical
leadership, grounded in 2,000 years
of dogma and biblical text.

Historically, Anglicans have ac-
cepted a wide variety of religious
doctrines and ceremonial traditions.
This latitude, however, has been
based on tradition and the unquestion-
able validity of the Holy Scripture.
This freedom has precluded beliefs
that are blatantly contrary to the
foundations of Christian faith. Recent-
ly because of incompetent (and ques-
tionably Christian) leadership in the
church, faithfulness to Christ’s word

has been supplanted by society's
whims and mandates.

In the past few years, church
leaders have been allowed to take
positions that are ﬂagrantly contrary
to Episcopal cannon, as well as the
entire Holy Catholic and Apostolic
Church. For example: the ordination
of women to the episcopate, the
questioning of the Gospel as the
Word and Passion of Our Savior
Jesus Christ, and the recent admission
of professed and practicing homosex-
uals as fully legitimate members of

the Body of Christ, are not only-

blasphemous, but heretical.

Why do people turn to organized
religion? Primarily for one reason,
answers. Yet recently the Church has
provided few answers, nor have they
even attempted to. Instead, under a
guise of maintaining an “open door,"
it has driven out orthodox and life-
long Episcopalians, in exchange for
new membership, which has been at
best shallow, at worst, undevout and
unorthodox.

Recently, headlines have delighted
in reporting the moves “toward hon-
esty and integrity” within our
Church The Right Reverend Bishop
Spong, Bishop of Newark, has been
the center of continual controversy. A
few years ago, he traveled to the Far
East where he not only participated in
Buddhist religious services, but de-
scribed them as valid religions that
should be recognized by the Christian
church as such. This is in contradic-
tion to Holy Scripture in which
Christ states “no one comes to the
Father, but through Me.” Yet Bishop
Spong is not alone. Only a few miles
south of his diocese, the Diocesan
Council in Pennsylvania could not
agree upon whether or not Christ was
indeed the one source of man's salva-

S-£i§td§'outin the crowd,
with our one-of-a-kind
capabilitis at . . .

Hi-Spcvil Copying - Desktop Publishing - FA. - Dc<iizn r‘naD;..,.,

4i- «

'32 0 '”““..\'el9on, L913.‘ ~':, ~ '

 

:1 ea. ..  .1

TWO
FOR


 

Bring in a roll of C41 Color

standard size prints for

W&L Bookstore

Film for processing &
receive 2 sets of

the price of one.

Feb. 2 - 9, 1990

‘Because of incompe-
tent church leader-
ship, faithfulness to
Christ’s word has
been supplanted by
society’s whims.

tion as He Himself claimed to be.
Across the nation, “Episcopalians”
are calling for the Church to ordain
and bless extra—marital relationships,
homosexual liaisons, and other im-
moral lifestyles. Instead of receiving
the condemnation of the Church
hierarchy, they are received under the
new policy of acceptance. Under such
a policy, there are few who could not
maintain their current lifestyles and
remain Episcopalians. The distinction
of being an Episcopalian simply no
longer exists.

It has been the distinction that
supposedly marks Christians, and
Episcopalians, as God’s own which
separates us from society. There is
an old campﬁre song in which the
refrain states, “They will know we
are Christians by our love.” While
this is a noble ideal, there is more to
spirituality than love. A church must
preach more than “love thy neigh-
bor," if it is to provide spiritual sus-
tenance to its ﬂock. M Episcopa-
lian sheep have left for‘ eener pas-
tures. What, then, has this new breed
of sheep been feeding upon?

First, as so eloquently stated by
one Episcopal minister, they seek
blessing of their current lifestyle. This
very statement is an acknowledgement
of man’s need for justification,‘ how-
ever, historically it has been the
church’s role to lead man away from

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

his own wickedness, not to sanctify
his sinfulness.

At no point in the history of the
Anglican Communion has this disre-
gard for the Church’s position been

so blasphemed as in the example of

Bishop Spong and his illegal ordina-
tion of a practicing homosexual last
month. His actions were in direct

contradiction of the General Conven-

tion of 1979, and Bishop Spong’s
ordination vow to “solemnly engage
to conform to the doctrine, discipline,
and worship of the [Protestant] Epis-
copal Church.” While this was not
the first embarrassing and heretical
action the Bishop has taken, it is
certainly the most heinous. It is quite
obvious to the rest of the catholic
community (of which the Episcopal
Church still claims to be a part) that
this Bishop is a heretic, and should
be defrocked and excommunicated. If
our church leadership has reached the
point where it does not see this, then
our church is in far graver danger
than we realize.

If Presiding Bishop will not assert
his leadership and discipline now,
then when? Shall Episcopalians not
only ‘be expected to endure, but ac-
cept such heresies under the blanket
of brotherly love? Shall those Episco-
palians who verbally oppose the
current trends within the Church to
“catch up” with the current trends
within society be made to feel as
second rate communicants, if not
outcast entirely? Shall we continue to
spiral down the present paths of
secularism and modernism away from
the Word of Christ? Or shall the
head of the Episcopal Church ﬁnally
stand up and ﬁrmly denounce these
transgressions so that as a Church we
may “with hearty repentance and true
faith tum unto Him?”

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE ill

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478

1-800-768-LEHI

V!)

 

Wrapped

Cash
and

Spring Flowers

Half Price

Florist to the Homestead

103 N. Jefferson
Lexington. va. 24450
-(703) 463-9841

 

E NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 25, 1990

 

I

 

I

, Live Drive

‘ There will be a Live Drive
, meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in room
311 of Howe Hall. All those
3 involved should attend.

, D.C. jobs

Career Connections: D.C. will
, be held in the Capitol building on
Tuesday, Feb. 20 from 6-8 p.m.
‘ Alumni interested in helping
‘ students find jobs in the D.C.
area will be present. Students
Q should plan to be at the reception
Tuesday evening and spend Wed-
nesday, possibly Thursday in D.C.
4 for following up and interviews.
For more information and regis-
tration come to the Career De-
, velopment and Placement Office
by Feb. 2.

- Cookie sale

APO and the local Girl Scout
troop will be taking Girl Scout
. cookie orders on today and to-
morrow. Booths will be set up
‘ outside Evans Dining Hall and the
Co-op between 11:30 a.m. and 1
p.m. and outside the GHQ bet-
v ween 5:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. They
only come around once a year, so
buy them now.

. Filmfest

At 8 p.m. on Jan. 26 and 27
I in Lewis Hall (classroom A), the
Film Society plans to show Wings
of Desire (1988; West Gerrnany/
. France; director - Wim Wenders).
This landmark ﬁlm is one of the
‘ most highly acclaimed ﬁlms of
, the past few years. Based on the
poetry of Rainer Maria Rilke and
‘ co-written be Peter Handke, this
g film is both a poetic examination
of the divided city of Berlin and
8 a thoroughly romantic love story
‘ involving an angel and a trapeze
artist.

   
   
   
    
   
 
   
  
   
     
      
    
   
   
    
  
   
   
     
   
  
   
    
   
   
     
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
      
        
  
   
    
  

~   GENERAL NOTES_|

The Russian Film Series will
show Brothers Karamazov (1968;
USSR; director - Ivan Pyriev)
tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in Reid
203. There will be a brief dis-
cussion preceding the show. This
is perhaps the most penetrating
study on film of nihilism.

Hiking

The hiking section of the
Outing Club will climb Little
House Mountain on Saturday, Jan.
27. Little House is the mountain
nearer to Lexington and is not so
frequently climbed as Big House,
probably because there is no trail
and the going is a bit rough; but
the climb is worth the effort, for
there is a clear view of Lexington
from the top. Wear sturdy shoes
or boots and warm clothing.
Bring along rain protection, water,
and a lunch. Meet at 10 a.m.
outside Baker 109. Transportation
will be provided. Sign up in
advance at Baker 109. Call David
Allen at 463-5882 for more infor-
mation.

The hiking section of the
Outing Club will also take an
overnight backpacking trip to the
Three Ridges area of the
Appalachian Trail on Feb. 3 and
4. Views from the overlook are
spectacular, especially in winter.
For details, call Tim Clark at
464-4448 ar Gray Rand at 463-
4492 well in advance. Equipment
and transportation will be pro-
vided.

Canoeing

Get ready for the spring now
by learning how to canoe or
kayak. Kayak classes are being
offered by the Outing Club in the
old pool on Thursday nights from
6-8. Sign up in advance at Baker
109. In addition, the Outing Club
will also sponsor Canoeing on
weekends beginning Saturday, Jan.
27. If you want to use an Outing

Club canoe, you must take part in
this instruction. For more informa-
tion come to the Outing Club
table outside the Co-op today
from 11 a.m.-l p.m., or call Mark
Lubkowitz at 463-7590.

Biking

The biking section of the
Outing Club will take a mountain-
bike ride in the Montebello area
of the Blue Ridge on Saturday,
Feb. 3. All skill levels are wel-
come. Food and transportation
will be provided. Contact John
Buchanan at 463-7369 for details.

The Outing Club now has bike
maintenance equipment available.
For information call Jason
Daywitt at 464-4665 or John
Buchanan. Regular shop hours
will begin when the warm weath-
er returns.

Environment

The environmental section of
the Outing Club has placed boxes
for recycling newspapers under
the Graham-Lees archway and
under the archway leading to the
dining hall. Please place only
newspapers in these boxes; com-
puter paper can be put in the
recycling boxes in each of the
computer labs. If you would like
to become involved in these ef-
forts, please call Tim Clark at
464-4448.

There will be a meeting of the
environmental section of the Out-
ing Club on Monday, Jan. 29 at
5:30 p.m. in room 109 of the
University Center.

Hillel Society

The Hillel Society of Jewish
Students will hold its first election
of officers on Monday, Jan. 29 in
room 102 of the University Li-
brary at 7:30 p.m. Your atten-
dance is requested.

    
     
       
 

VARNER -'

 
      
    
  
 

For your extra pieces of furniture
1 15 S. Main St., Lexington

  
 
  
   
    
    
 

, She unloosed

« the ribbon. . .
gently pulled the
thin covering aside
, and dropped it

« to the ﬂoor.

She looked at him,
eyes wild
with anticipation.

At last, with

ribbon and paper
torn away,

she opened

‘ her Caravans gift box

“Happy Valentine ’s, ”
he smiled.

CARAVANS

121 West Nelson Street

t Lexington

464-3500

’ Open Daily 10 AM — 6 PM
‘ Sunday Noon - 6 PM

 

  
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
    
 
  
  
  
  

Furniture Dealers

Aerobics 0 Karate

 

Weatherby® °Remington®

Browning® 0 Mossberg®

We will not be undersold
by anyone!

FREE

Scope Mount & Bore
Sighting with purchase.

Best prices on Hunting
Equipment & Clothing too!

 

   
   
  

Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

[]IlNTEI2<25ttllNTI2l“r5‘1§‘3
18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington 463-1800

  

oppoo,otQ.Qo*'

FALL & WINTER

ON SALE NOW
New Spring items arriving daily

MERCHANDISE

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)463-5988

 

WILLSON-
WA L K E R

Restaurant

 
  
 

___.._ T/i,e___ .  

HOUSE ——l—-

J!“

30 N. Main St.

Lexington

FZMZZZZZZIXMZIXZM

I ORDER AN ENTREE AND I
GET A SECOND ONE FOR
HALF PRICE (Dinner Only)

*This coupon valid for up to four persons

and only good in January.
1111-ZZIKZZZZZZ

I
I
I
I
I
I
v.|

463-3020

 

AIDS expert blames ads

By Alison McGloln
Staff Reporter

Alcohol and lack of self-esteem ,

are the two biggest factors m the
spread of AIDS, according to the
director of the University of Vir-
ginia’s department of student health.

An expert on AIDS, Dr. Richard
P. Keeling spoke in Lee Chapel Jan.
18 on the college student’s risk of
contracting the fatal disease.

He told the students that the aver-
age age of someone who has been
diagnosed with AIDS is 32. Because
there is a latency phase of nine years,
Keeling said, young people between
the ages of 16 and 28 are at the
greatest risk of contracting the dis-
ease.

Keeling noted that 84 percent of
American college and university
students are in this high-risk age
group.

He presented a number of statis-
tics showing the level of sexual activ-
ity among students and the number
who fail to use preventive methods.

One poll, he said, showed that 87
percent of male college students and
78 percent of female college students
were sexually active. The poll indi-
cated only 58 percent of sexually
active students had used a condom
the last time they had sex.

Young people receive conﬂicting
messages from advertisements and

AIDS prevention groups.

“Campus culture,” or students’
perceptions of acceptable and admira-
ble behavior, draw more from adver-
tisements than from the voices of
reason, Keeling said.

While AIDS preventionists say,
“Just Say No" and “Don’t mix
alcohol and sex," Keeling said, the
campus culture permits “SUI __ sex
under the inﬂuence. In other words,
sleeping with someone you probably
wouldn’t even go to lunch with under
normal circumstances.”

Keeling showed a number of ads
to support his message. Most of the
companies selling alcohol were also
selling sex, he said.

One whiskey advertisement
showed a scantily dressed man and
woman with the message, “Be a Part
of It.”

“We all know what IT is,” Keel-
ing said.

While AIDS preventionists tell
males not to “lose control,” Keeling
said, the ads tell them to “take con-
trol.”

While AIDS preventionists tell
females to “stay in control,” Keeling
said, advertisements tell women to
“ignore your better judgement.”

Keeling emphasized the conse-
quences of unprotected intercourse.
People never suffer from sexually
transmitted diseases, psychological
problems, problems with drugs or
alcohol, or pregnancy in the adver-

tisements, he said.

Keeling said the problem of self-
esteem enters the picture because the
ads lack intimacy and diversity. Ev-
eryone in the ads is white, heterosex-
ual and gorgeous, he said. Thus, he
continued, if you are not like the
person in the ad, you think you
should change something ~ so you
buy the product.

According to Keeling, the entire
premise on which the ads are based
is the undermining of one’s
self-esteem.

Fear, denial, prejudice, discrimina-
tion and controversy are words often
associated with AIDS, Keeling said.

“There is also a new word associ-
ated with AIDS,” Keeling said,
“hope.”

Better strategies and better drugs
are prolonging lives, he said.

Although an AIDS vaccine is not
foreseeable in this decade, he said,
drugs such as DDI and AZT are
giving more people hope for a longer
life.

Keeling, an associate professor of
internal medicine at UVa’s school of
medicine, graduated from UVa. He
received his M.D. from Tufts Univer-
sity School of Medicine. He is presi-
dent of the American College Health
Association and a member of the ad
hoc advisory committee on AIDS for
the Public Health Service and the
executive board of the National AIDS
Network.

BERGER

from page 4

Paragraph 3: Author suggests
that Mr. Peppers should loosen up.
Questions are provided that a
thoughtful viewer may ask him/her
self during movie. Author suggests
solution to reviewers previously
mentioned need for Cliff’s Notes.

Paragraph 4: The author points
out Mr. Peppers’ selective memory
and.--its detrimental effect on the
review. It is postulated that the cen-
tral word of the title could be the
central theme of the movie.

Paragraph 5: The author seems to
be “utterly bafﬂed” by the review-
er’s inability to comprehend film. A
semi-serious suggestion i's made that

the reviewer is actually a prominent
Senator’s wife.

Paragraph 6: Column points out
that reviewer did not do homework
on movie. Seems to imply that re-
viewer need merely have called Mr.
Soderbergh since the latter is a Vir-
ginia resident.

Conclusion: Jamie suggests that
the Phi reviewer doesn't really know
what he is talking about.

Questions for review:

1. Most credible movie reviewers
watch a movie more than once.
Would this have helped Mr. Peppers’
review?

2. Who is Mr. Gaherty? Why is

he even mentioned?

3. Why does Mr. Peppers con-
tinually proclaim his puzzlement over
the movie and its overwhelmingly
positive reviews by people who know
what they are talking about (i.e.
Siskel and Ebert, Vincent Canby,
etc...)?

4. Consider the following quote:
“I just don’t find people masturbating
very artistic at all.” Does this reflect
the thinking of a student of a fine
liberal-arts institution? List 10 fa-
mous artists (any area) who would be

affected by this quote. Note: thej
author suggests starting the list with —

Philip Roth, or Gunter Grass.

“<9

 @aém
Jaarcéaﬂaxvze
6°ax<o£/ze@aw.i:o/a
Ja/«w@a¢arcé
ﬁew@owé2y
ﬂﬁreaézﬂcéizéoax-a{e
émwéaéaxzée
 t7/wee
 .7/mm
 §&/weﬂ
 §h@w
ﬁaMm 

Congratulations
to the 1990

Kappa Alpha Theta
Pledge Class!

.%ge%/zée
¢0(yﬂ/rzee
 MxAoé
..rZz 
%atAe/«9'i%oaé.e
/eygrzoamm
ﬂaw/44¢’
 JWZﬂ
6%xwJm/aéze
 J 
jetygaex/peeeaaa
.7ex<ara/ Wt/émw

Love,

The Zeta Iota Chapter

at Washington and Lee

  

C————’
By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Fancy Dress Chairman Alexander
Hitz drew the most attention at Mon-
day night’s Executive Committee
meeting with his report on the prog-
ress of Fancy Dress spending.

Hitz told the EC that Peter Duch-
iri’s swing orchestra has contracted to
play at the FD Ball on Friday, March
9. According to Hitz, Dtichiri himself
is not scheduled to perform, but if he
does not have another engagement, he
may show up at no extra charge. The
FD Committee has paid $4,000 of the
$8,000 cost for Duchin’s band.

A rock band for the same night
has not yet signed, said Hitz.

Student Activities Board Treasur-
er Kathleen Duwel did not attend the
meeting, but later reenforced her
September hope that FD will pay for
itself this year, generating about
$50,()00 in ticket revenue and
$12,000 in memorabilia. revenue.

Though over $100,000 has been
spent on past Fl)s, Duwel believes
that careful budgeting can produce a
successful event without such high
costs.

“It looks like everything is
going along smoothly,” said Sopho-
more EC Rep. Clayton Kennington.

Third-year law Rep. David An-
thony added, “'I‘hey’ve done a good
job of juggling the money so they
can...provide. an equivalent F1) for
less....”

Duwel added that Cliarlie Dairi-
els may perform the SAB-sponsored
concert on the 'l'IiIIrsd>ty prior to FD,
but that contract has not yet arrived.

A fall--term surplus on SAB

NEWS  

books is causing an unexpected but
welcome challenge to the EC.

According to Duwel, roughly
$10,000 remains in the bank from
the SAB’s $15,000 fall—terrn enter-
tainment budget. The SAB is now
working with its winter-term enter-
tainment budget of $10,000. Last
term’s surplus is in the hands of the
EC which must decide the money’s
fate.

“We don’t want to end the year
with this money in reserve,” said
Duwel. “We want to entertain peo-
ple."

EC Vice President
Sheinberg lauded the SAB,
crediting their successful Fall Term to
careful bookkeeping and teamwork by
Duwel and SAB Chaimian Charles
Conklin.

Sheinberg indicated that the EC
would be receptive to a
recotnrriendatioii from the SAB as to
how to handle the bulk of
the surplus.

Duwel added that she would like
to see some of the surplus saved and
some spent. The spending could go
toward the SAB-sponsored bands for

the Wednesday and Thursday prior to
FD.

Jonathan

In response to budget allocation
requests of $l,32() from the Political
Review and $950 from the Journal of
Science, the EC voted in favor of
lowering the Publications Board mini-
mum reserve to the student body
constitutional minimum of $2,500.
According to Sheinberg, this action
will override the Publications Board
constitutional $4,000 minimum and
free an additional $1,500 for these
publications.

If publications remain in need of

Next year’s head RA,
dorm counselor picked

By Tracy TIl()I‘IlI..\I:l(I€
Staff Reporter

The head dorm coiirisclor and
head resident assistant for 1990-91
were chosen last week andwill help
fill twenty-nine‘ d<')ri'ii-"'co'uriIs"elor'and
nine resident assistant’ positions for
next year.

Approximately 90 students have
submitted applications for the 38
positions available, said Dean of Res-
idence Life Kenneth Ruscio.

Mary I-larnpson was named head
domi counselor. James Rambeau will
be the school’s hr.-arl resideitt assis-
tant.

According to Ruseio, the qualifi-
cations for the two head positions
include several cliaractcristics.

First, he said, both students must
be able to approach the position in a
creative way and set goals. and objec-
tives that will hcneiit the entire sys--
tcm.

Second, one must be a motivator
and rriust be able to "work with staff
members who may be having a dif-

ficult time dealing with :1 particular,

situation.

Finally, one must display very
strong leadership skills. All these.
qualities, in addition to those required
for any staff tnernher, such as show-
ing a compassion for residents and
exhibiting a willingness to speak
candidly with the administration
about problems, are essential to the
job.

Ruscio called Iriatnpson and Rain-
beau “two very exceptional people
who were chosen from a group of
very exceptional applicants.” ,

“I’m greatly looking forward to

    

8:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M.
Evenings and Weekends by Appointment
203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

463-9455

   

<1/if /((1/It}?/Il» gr aitu .030/jﬂltﬁ

Call for appointment
All Students Welcome

working with them next year, ” he
said.

Hanipson said the head dorm
counselor plays a supportive role to
other dorm counselors. She said she
thinks the head D.C. has the oppor-
tunity to make positive changes on
camp'us. ' For exarriplc, she will be
the “mouthpiece of the freshmen”
on the Student Affairs Committee
next year. She will also play an
interpretive role among the freshmen,
the dorm counselors, and the deans.

Rambeau said he applied for the
position of head resident assistant
because he was interested in playing
a rriore influential role in developing
residential policy and activities for
residents.

His experience as a peer coun-
selor, as well as the support of this
year’s head R.A., Catherine Baillio,
influenced his decision to apply.

Next year Rambeau would like to
see greater residence participation in
the planning of social events as well
as a greater utilization of the Gaines
Gatehouse facility.

In addition he would like to
come up with a new strategy to at-
tract more students to Gaines, such
as encouraging sorority halls and pro-
moting existing .-3"’.-[Ii;lll facilivit-;; iii
the dorm. Althougii excited for next
year, Rambeau says he plans “to
continue to help make this year's
program a success.”

Preliminary interviews for the 38
dorm counselor and resident assistant
positions will be held next week,
with additional ititcrviews the fol-
lowing week.

The scheduled atiriouricenient of
the selections has been set for made
Wednesday, Feb. 14.

Sirttirday 5:00 p.m.
Siiriday 8:00 & 10:30 a.m.

 

Every Thursday, 3-4 p.m.
in (Thurch Hall, Discussion:
lliis tire/t’ '5‘ to/)i('.'
“('«.wI(' Follow Me "
interested in a retreat e.xperience‘.’
Call Burr Datz 463-3533
for information

 

463-958

 

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, VA 24450

The Ring-tum Phi, January 25, 1990

EC hears plans for FD

more funding than the Publications
Board can provide, Sheinberg said
they may solicit the difference from
the EC.

“People will get their money,”
said Sheinberg, “it's just a matter of
from where.”

Director of University Food
Service Gerald Darrell addressed the
EC, appealing last week’s execu-
tive-session decision to not grant the
$250 requested for this week’s Lip
Synch, of which Darrell is in charge.

The EC denied that request last
week largely on the grounds that the
money was going to a charity. Lip
Synch is a benefit for Students Aga-
inst Multiple Sclerosis and the Na-
tional Multiple Sclerosis Society.

Darrell argued that Lip Synch is
an entertainment activity for students,
and the money would fund prizes on-
ly, not be a donation.

The EC overturned its denial
and granted the money with a 7-6
decision. Secretary Christopher Gib-
lin, first-year law Rep. Julie Alagna,
third-year law Rep. David Anthony,
second—year law Rep. Mark Cobb,
junior Rep. Thompson Hatcher and
sophomore Rep. Clayton Kenriington
voted against the allocation.

Sheinberg said the $250 would
most likely be drawn from the SAB

-surplus.

Voting Regulations Board Chair-
man Wesley Goings presented some
textual changes to the “Official VRB
Poster Rules” to the EC for advice
and approval.

Posters endorsing candidates
running in any VRB election are now
limited to 8.5 by 11 inches in size,
banning barmers and sheets. Ballot
boxes for all elections will be open

  

John “Jack” Pringle

...new senior rep
from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., rather than the
occasional 6 p.m. closing time recent-
ly exercised by the EC.

“We wanted to increase [voter]
turnout by making [the voting hours]
eight to six," explained Sheinberg,
but the difference was not significant.

EC members expressed concern
that a constituency, not having read
the official rules, could post an illegal
promotion for their candidate, thus
disqualifying him or her from the
election inadvertently. Goings replied
that candidates would have to be told
that they are responsible for any
promotion in their name.

EC President Willard Dumas and
Sheinberg welcomed John “Jack”
Pringle to his new post as senior
representative.

Pringle won last week's run-off
election with 101 votes to Stephen
George’s 94. The VRB also recorded
three “no votes."

Petitions of at least 150 signa-
tures for “The Big Three” -- EC
president, vice president and secretary
-- are due Feb. 5. That election will
take place on Feb. 12 with a run-off
on Feb. 15.

 

L,-——H

ODK taps 21

Campus leaders recognized

From the W&L News Office

Washington and Lee University's
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa
initiated 21 students into the honorary
fraternity that recognizes leadership
in all areas of campus life.

The students, four from the
School of Law and 17 from the un-
dergraduate divisions, were" initiated,
or “tapped,” during the armual Foun-
der’s Day Convocation held last
Friday in Lee chapel.

W&L’s Alpha circle of ODK was
founded on the campus in 1914 by
three Washington and Lee students.
Omicron delta Kappa honors the
student leaders from the academic,
athletic, social, religious, and literary
areas of campus life.

Those students initiated Friday
were:

SENIORS: R. David Allen of

Anniston, Ala.; Christopher A. Bceley
of Houston, Texas; John M. Durant
of Drexel Hill, Pa.; Lee K. Garlove
of Louisville, Ky.; Kristi A. Good-
man of Salem, Va.; B. Dallas Hage-
wood of Franklin, Tenn.; Robert E.
Martin of Camp Hill, Pa.; Stacy L.
Morrison of Jenkintown, Pa.; Todd C.
Peppers of Lexington, Va.; Rebecca
Reynolds of Jenkintown, Pa.; and
Grace E. Stutzrnarin of Port Washing-
ton, N.Y.

JUNIORS: Robby J. Aliff of Oak
Hill, W. Va.; John A. Fialcowitz of
Garden City, N.Y.; Mary R.S. Hamp-
son of Charleston, S.C.; Michael W.
Holton of Indianapolis, Irid.; and
James E. Rambeau Jr. of Miami, Fla.

THIRD YEAR LAW STUDENTS:
Roger W. Alsup of Murfreesboro,
Tenn.; J. Garrett Horsley of Rich-
mond, Va.; Kymberly K. Oltrogge of
New Hampton, Iowa; Gladys L.
Yates of Roanoke, Va.

 ‘

MDA

from page 1

Bahamas, will go to the dancer who
brings in the largest donation above
$250. The trip includes air fare, ac-
commodations at the Bahamas Prince,
and a book of certificates good in the
Freepoit area.

Other prizes include weekends for
two at the Williarnsburg Hilton, the
Greenbrier and the Dupont Plaza in
Washington, D.C.; and one night and
brunch at the Belle Grae Inn in

Staunton. Prizes will be given to the
fraternity, sorority and student
organization whose members donate
the most money. In addition, gift
certificates from local merchants will
be given as door prizes each hour of
Superdancc.

Tickets for Supcrdance are $4 for
Friday, $6 for Saturday and $8 for a
weekend pass.

WHO’S ON THE HILL

Rita Dove, winner of the 1987 Pulitzer
Prize In poetry, will give a reading at W&L
Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

The reading is sponsored by the Glasgow
Endowment Program at W&L. A reception will
follow.

Dove was born in Akron, Ohio in 1952. In
1970 she was invited to the White House as a
1970 Presidential Scholar, one of the hundred or
so best high school graduates across the United
States that year. She graduated summa cum
laude from Miami University (Oxford, Ohio) in
1973 and studied for a year on a University of
Iowa writers workshop. In 1977, she earned a
master of fine arts degree from the University of
Iowa.

Dove's poems began to receive national
exposure in 1974. Her first book of poetry, The
Yellow House on the Corner (1980) was followed
by Museum (1983) and Thomas and Beulah
(1986) all published by Carnegie-Mellon
University Press. her most recent book Grace
Notes, was published by W.W. Norton in 1989.
She also published a collection of stories, Fifth
Sunday, in 1985.

Dove joined the faculty at the University of
Virginia in 1989 as professor of English and a
fellow in the university’s Center for Advanced
Studies. In 1988-89, she spent the academic year
as a Mellon Senior Fellow at the National
Humanities Center in North Carolina and taught
for eight years at Arizona state University. Her
first novel, Through the Ivory Gate, is to be
published by Putnam in 1990.

Economist Walter E. Williams, John M.
Olin Distinguished Professor of Economics at
George Mason University, will speak at W&L
Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

A former weekly columnist for the
Philadelphia Tribune, Williams is currently a
nationally syndicated columnist with Heritage
Features Syndicate which is carried in roughly
90 newspapers. Williams frequently appears on
radio and television programs such as Milton
Friedman’s “Free to Choose,” WQLN’s “Star
Spangled Spcnders,” the WTBS Debate Series

“Counterpoint,” William F. Buckley’s “Firing
Line,” ABC “Nightline,” CBS “Face the
Nation,” “Crossﬁre,” and CNN’s “Larry King
Show.”

Williams makes frequent appearances before
congressional committees, such as the Senate

Labor Committee, Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, the House Ways and Means and
House Judiciary Committees. Heis the author of
numerous articles and four books: The State
Against Blacks (McGraw-Hill, 1982); America.‘ A
Minority Viewpoint (Hoover Institution Press,
1982); All It Takes is Guts (Regnery-Gateway,
1987); and South Africa's War Against
Capitalism (Praegcr Publishers, 1989).

The lecture is sponsored by Contact, a
student-run and ﬁnanced lecture series.

Gershon Winkler, popular author and
lecturer, will talk at W&L Monday at 8 p.m.
in Room 327 of the Commerce School. The
topic of Winkler’s talk will be “Madness in
the Bible.”

An ordained rabbi, Winkier is also a
songwriter, storyteller, farmhand, and
performer of bluegrass music. He is the author
of The Golem of Prague, Dybbuk, and The Soul
of the Matter. He lectures frequently on
campuses across the U.S. and Canada on Jewish
mysticism (Kabbalah), Jewish philosophy, and
Jewish concepts of love, sexuality, and mental
health. Winkier lectured last year at W&L on
Jewish mysticism.

From 1970-75, Winkier worked as an
editorial assistant for McGraw-Hill Book Co. in
New York. He later established several “Jewish
coffee-houses” in the New York area for Jewish
teenagers and founded The Jewish Connection, a
program of educational outreach to alienated
adults.

Winkler, who often appears on television and
radio talk shows, currently serves as director of
the Hillel organization for Jewish students at
West Virginia University and as chaplain for
inmates at the Kennedy center in Morgantown.

 

His visit to W&L is sponsored by the
department of religion and the Max and Sylvia
Weinstein Memorial Fund.

OOIOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOIO0000000
Ferdinand Schoeman, professor of
philosophy at the University of South

Carolina, has been named scholar-In-residence
at W&L’s Francis Lewis Law Center for the.
winter term (Jan. through May, 1990).

While in residence, Schoeman will be
working on a project titled, “The Reasonable
Person, Mitigation, and Social/Cognitive
Psychology.” Speciﬁcally, he is interested in
discoveries about limits in human capacities and
the potential impact of these discoveries on our
moral judgements -of when people are
responsible. During his residency at W&L’s
School of Law, Schocman will teach a class
being offered to law students on “Human Nature
and the Expectation of Reasonable Conduct.”
Schoeman’s areas of specialization are social
philosophy, ethics and philosophy of law.

Schoeman received his PhD. in philosophy
from Brandeis University and his B.A. degree
from the University of Rochester. He has done
postdoctoral work, most recently as a National
Endowment for the Humanities Fellow (1988-
89) and as a Rockefeller Resident Fellow at the
Center for Philosophy and Public Policy at the
University of Maryland (1984-85). He has also
participated in a number of N.E.H. institutes and
seminars on criminal justice, the philosophy of
crime and punishment, and law and ethics.

The author of numerous articles in his ﬁeld,
Schoeman has also edited and contributed to two
volumes published by Cambridge University
Press, Philosophical Dimensions of Privacy: An
Anthology (1984) and Responsibility, Character
and the Emotions: New essays in Moral
Psychology (1987).

The Francis Lewis Law center was
established at W&L’s law school to focus on
developing knowledge “at the frontiers of the
law." In addition to sponsoring scholars-in-
residence, the center has also supported the
research of lawyers and judges and hold major
seminars on various topics.

DEAVERS ALLEY .---——----——~—----—————
BUSINESS SERVICES CATHOLIC ciudiotronics 1
Our Typing A VIRG|NIA'S STEREO SPECIALIST
Word Ilierfe ct." ~ -\ M1 N I STRY 25080 QEIEISN 10 DAYS’
-.___,--__ __ _ 3&0 CWD
St. Patrick’s Church EEENET SSEANCE
Mass Schedule: KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(300) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

WIN A HAWAHAN VACATION
OR BIG SCREEN
RAISE UP TO $1,400 IN JUST

Objective: Fundraiser
Commitment: Minimal
Money: Raise $1,400
Cost: Zero Investement

Campus organizations, clubs, frats,
sororities call OCMC at 1(800)
932-0528 / 1(800) 950-8472 ext.
10

TV PLUS

SUPERDANCE
BOWLING NIGHT

Thursday Night At

Fast Lanes
9:30 - 12:00 a.m.

Have Fun: Help Support A Good Cause!

 

lines and S.75 for each additional

2-1 cIi:Ir:Icicrs per line; caps count
its l\tt) cliztriictcrs.

F--_—__——__—_—'__—__—_—‘——_-_

College Shopping Square

 

‘I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Ri'II\'\' are: $2.50 for the first four

line (up to 8 total lines).Therc arc

Super-X Drugs

At Super-X Your Prescription
Needs Are Our Iillost Important Business.

463-71 26

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

I

I
I

Use this form to order...

PERSONALS

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Personal ads may be subnijtted to The Ring-tum Phi oITIcc, on the second floor of the university I
center, or can be mailed to: Personals, PO. Box 899, Lexington. VA 24450 Ads 1711151 I30 FCCICVCKI 1
III the office by Tuesday at 3:00pm for inclusion in the following Thursday's edition. Submissions 1
of questionable content may be rejected by the editors, and a refund will be given. I
I
I
I
I
I

LL////I/l/////////////////

l/////////////////////l(ll:
I
L1//////1//I//I///////ll(ll

I
PAYMENT MUST ACCOMPANY SUBMISSION j I
__________ ._911S£1‘§_E9:_'E’1€_I3i'19£EIZ'..€L'§____________ '

J

4

?-C-59

 

 

  

By Chris Baradel
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee students for
years have jokingly referred to Lex-
ington as “Lex-Vegas,” poking fun
at the lack of amusements the town
offers outside the conﬁnes of the
university.

But some day, if Lindy Felix gets
her way, things may loosen up —
quite literally.

Felix, who calls herself a “mas-
sage therapist,” appeared before the
Social and Economic Services Com-
mittee of the Lexington City Council
Thursday night to ask that a $1,500
licensing tax on massage parlors be
changed to a revenue-based tax.

The committee promised only to

study the issue further, but Felix
believes massage parlors will some-
day be a reality in Lexington. “I
think massage is coming commonly
back into being,” she said. “I think
what the council said is they would
like to wait until there is some kind
of standard, and we're close to get-
ting a government standard for licens-
mg.”

Though Felix has a business li-
cense for Rockbridge County that
allows her to perform massages in
private homes, she would have to pay
the licensing tax to open an ofﬁce in
Lexington. She also does massages at
the Staunton Athletic Club.

Even though she is a massage
student at a state-certiﬁed trade sch-
ool in Charlottesville and has about
220 hours training, Felix has to ﬁght

Comer hearing
set for Tuesday

By Genlenne Mongno
Associate Editor

Charles “Blake" Comer, who
faces charges of hit-and-run and
manslaughter in the death of a W&L
freshman, will appear in Lexington
General District Court for a prelimi-
nary hearing Tuesday at 10:15 a.m.

Based on evidence presented at
the hearing, Judge Joseph Hess will
decide whether the case should be
sent to the grand jury.

Comer, 21, was arrested Nov. 31

and charged in the March 16 death of
Mary Ashley Scarborough.

According to W&L Director of
Communications Brian Shaw, Comer
voluntarily withdrew from W&L on
Dec. 3. Shaw said, if Comer applies
for readmission his application would
go before the school’s Committee on
the Automatic Rule and Readmission.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said witnesses will be called to
testify at Tuesday's hearing but he
declined to release their names.

Beard said there may be more
arrests in the case.

38 candidates are left
to replace Dean John

By Kelly McCabe
Staff Reporter

Only 38 names remain on the list
of candidates to be Washington and
Lee's new dean of students.

W&L received 180 applications
for the position, according to Admis-
sions Director William Hartog, chair-
man of the search comniittee.  T ' '

The 38 remaining prospects have
been asked to submit letters of rec-
ommendation. “We’re awaiting these
letters before we take another step,”
said Hartog.

The committee placed an adver-
tisement for the position in the Sep-

tember issue of the Chronicle of
Higher Education, wrote the W&L
faculty and sent hundreds of letters
soliciting nominations for the posi-
tion.

The search committee consists of
Hartog, Vice President John Elrod,
W&L faculty members Samuel Ko-
zak, Thomas Williams, Joan Shangh-

F nessy, Philip Cline, Joseph Goldsten,
Kathy Koberstein, and students Jon

Sheinberg, Mary Alice McMorrow
and Michael Holton.

W&L’s current Dean of Students,
Lewis John, plans to take a one-year
sabbatical at the end of this academic
year before returning to teach full
time.

RENT

from page 7

When the amendment was passed in 1987, landlords could get a stay of
enforcement until June 1990 that allowed property owners to let more than
four unrelated people continue living together without having to comply with

the new provisions.

Stays of enforcement were granted, King said, to allow students who were
already living together to ﬁnish their tenure at W&L before the restrictions

began.

Ten stays of enforcement were granted after the ’87 law was passed. So
far, nine applications for a conditional use permit have been submitted in
anticipation of the July changes. All of those nine applications, King said,
were submitted by owners who had obtained stays of enforcement.

King did not specify how many years the conditional use permit will last
but said it will be long enough to make any changes necessary to comply

with the law worthwhile.

“The thinking is that if we’re going to require the property owner to
invest substantially to meet the standards,” King said, “then we ought to
give them some assurance that Ihey’ll be able to get some return on the

investment. ’ ’

King said he expects more large capacity house owners to apply for

conditional use permits.

"In keeping with other communities,” King said, “we’ve really relaxed
by 100 percent — if you want to look at it that way — the restrictions on

unrelated individuals living together.”

Monarch Pet
Center

Snakes, Bunnys,
Killer Fish and
Tarantulas

 

.. ,. .  L
IIMIWSPIIIESIIIEK

‘Dnt50yoonolqodIlyIool'
ITIAKS 0 SEAFOOD O IJIICKIN
GIBBS I  3fIl2lAI.'l‘l_ﬁ
o uuvotrrtuvux

         
    

JAZZ CLASSES

Beginners, Intermediate & Advanced Classes
to be held Tues. & Thursday Evenings

Ballroom
Jitterbug, Foxtrot & Latin Pances
Private & Group Lessons

Lexington School of Dance

LII] [U

463-4466 or 463-7662

The Hing-tum Phi, January 25, 1990

the stigrnas associated with massage
therapists.

Lexington City Attorney William
O. Roberts said he fears “if the price
is right, anything goes.” Other com-
mittee members had similar apprehen-
sions.

Louise Moore, who heads
committee, said she was concerned
that changing the tax could encourage
illicit behavior if minimum standards
for certiﬁcation are not established.

City Manager Joseph King said
the city created the current tax in
1983 and added that the city has not
had any problems with illicit massage
parlors.

The tax, which was called a “nui-
sance fee,” fosters the misconceptions
people have about massage therapists,
Felix said. “Having a nuisance fee

By Roschelle Mack
Staff Reporter

Jarvis Hall, ABD Visiting Fellow
in Politics at W&L, spoke last Wed-
nesday night about “Non-Violent
Social Change” in Lee Chapel for
the first Martin Luther King Memori-
al Lecture Series.

Hall, who teaches the course
“Race, Class and Public Policy” at
W&L, said that his purpose was to
focus on the journey that King made
toward accepting nonviolence as a
social, political and philosophical way
of life. He said his purpose in his
speech was to communicate to [the
audience] the life and work of one of
the most important individuals ir1
history, to tell of the philosophy of
the powerless becoming powerful.”

The doctrines of Christianity,
Marxism and Gandhi were cited by
Hall as inﬂuential forces that shaped
the manner in which King formulated

the /

contributes to the idea of massage
being an illicit thing," she told the
committee.“I do not do illicit mas-
sage.”

While she readily admits that it
would be impossible to police every

J establishment that might open if the

tax is changed, Felix said her way of
doing business has been and will
continue to be legitimate.

Her clients remain under a sheet
during the massage, Felix told the
committee, and she leaves when they
dress and undress.

“I would not risk my investment
[in massage training] by skirting the
law,” she said.

She charges $28 an hour for
athletic club members and $35 dol-
lars an hour for non-members. The
revenue-based tax she paid to operate

her business at the Staunton Athletic
Club only cost her $31 last year _ an
amount that covers income up to
$8,900.

Felix said opening a massage
parlor in Lexington under the current
licensing tax is not worth the invest-
ment. Business in Staunton is going
well enough, Felix said, that getting
the tax changed here “isn’t a press-
ing need for me."

If she could ﬁnd a health club,
clinic or doctor‘s ofﬁce in Lexington
willing to house and supervise her
business, she could avoid paying the
city’s tax. But she is wary of the
problems that could arise for potential
sponsors if many massage therapists
had the same idea.

Other area towns have even strict-
er massage regulations than Lexing-

Jrvis all speaks in Lee Chapel in oelebrion of Martin Lther King Day.

Hall purports non-violence

his idea of non-violent social change.

Hall explained the impact and
importance of the Black Church in
'the Civil Rights movement and how
it served as a refuge and a support
system for Blacks. He also stressed
the signiﬁcance of the courage of
those willing to die in the struggle
for “true” freedom in a time during
the sixties where “fear and intimida-
tion reigned in the hearts of blacks,”
and the slightest defense of civil,
rights on the part of those oppressed
people was seen as a stepping stone
to justice.

“The armual observance of the
birthday of Doctor King,” said Hall,
“seems to imply a comrnittrnent on
our part to emulate or strive for
[equality].’ ’

Hall told the audience that too
little attention is given to the broad
range of the dream, which meant that
schools and universities “must
change from the strict parochial
teachings of the past, to .those more

   

diverse, that reﬂect the mu1ti—cultural
make-up of our society.” Hall urged
the. young people in the audience to
“continue to dream,” and to be
prepared to look for social change.

Following the lecture, there was
as small reception in the Morris
House where Hall, accompanied by
his mother and wife, Rosalind, an-
swered questions about his political
studies and the lecture.

Jarvis Hall is a candidate for his
doctorate of philosophy from Duke
University in Durham, N.C. adn
specializes in American politics, com-
paritive politics, American public
policy and Black politics.

The lectures on non-violent social
change, which will appear annually,
are an effort on the part of the Mi-
nority Student Association and the

Lexington Ministerial Organization to

provide exposure of King’s philoso-
phy and ideas regarding social
change.

Masseuse out to get her hands on Lex

ton’s. The licensing tax in Roanoke is
$5,000, and Harrisonburg prevents
massage parlors from opening at all.

While many people connect mas-
sage parlors with an image of girls
named Trixie possessed of question-
able morals, Felix did not reﬂect that
stereotype. Plainly dressed and anx-
ious dispell any biases the committee
may have had, she repeatedly indi-
cated she had no intention of running
an illicit massage parlor.

She said later she thought the
committee listened to her with an
open mind.

King seemed to believe that
Felix's intentions were sound when
he jokingly said at the end of the
meeting, “If you're running an illicit
business, what's $1,500?”

W&L gets
grants for
minorities

From the W&L News Office

Washington and Lee University
recently received a grant of $113,139
from the Jessie Ball DuPont Reli-
gious, Charitable and Educational
Fund for the ABD (all but disserta-
tion) Teaching Fellows program for
minority doctoral candidates.

The grant stipulates that the
funded ABD position be in addition
to the one that is presently funded by
W&L and makes it possible for the
university to bring two minority ABD
fellows to the campus for the next
four years, beginning July 1, 1990.

According to John W. Elrod,
Vice-President for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the College, “This grant
is signiﬁcant because it enables
Washington and Lee to increase the
number of minority faculty in its
classrooms and makes it possible for
W&L to attract ABD Fellows from
some of the strongest graduate
schools in the country.”

The ABD Program at W&L is
designed to increase the number of
minority teachers on its faculty and
to provide minority doctoral candi-
dates an almost-unique economic and
educational opportunity to complete
the dissertation and achieve the Ph.D.

The program makes it possible for
the ABD Fellows who have com-
pleted their course work to come to
W&L for a full year at full salary,
teach one or two courses during the
12-week terms, and have no teaching
obligation in the ﬁnal six-week Spr-
ing Term.

For the duration of the academic
year the candidates receive travel,
secretarial and ofﬁce support.

Flu season descends upon campus

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The ﬂu season is about to make
its annual descent on the W&L carn-
pus, a school health official said.

“We're just starting to see true
inﬂuenza,” said Dr. Jane Horton of
the Student Health Center. “The ﬂu
will be here shortly.”

“We thought we were going to
get off easy this year,” said Barbara
Johnson, a secretary at the health
center. “But more and more people
have been coming in during the past
few days.”

~ On Monday, 67 people visited the

health center, but only a half a dozen
were treated for inﬂuenza.

“We expect a rapid increase in
three to four weeks. February is
usually our worst month,” Horton
said.

Although many people think there
are two types, there is only one true
ﬂu. Strictly deﬁned, inﬂuenza is an
inﬂammation of the respiratory tract
combined with muscle aches, fatigue
and high fever. Its symptoms usually
last four to seven days. For the
elderly and people with pre-existing
health problems, the ﬂu can some-
times be fatal because for them, it
can turn into pneumonia.

The other ailment believed to be
the ﬂu is actually a gastrointestinal
virus that causes stomach cramps,

‘VVc’Vc °EXpar1dccl Our “Fac1'11't1'es.’

PARTY SHIRTS
- T-Shins
- Long Sleeves
- Hats

Sweat Shins

' TEAM SHIRTS

- Satin Jackets

- Aprons & Totes

- Translers & Lettering
- Fletail& Wholesale

BIG DOG GRAPHICS

17 1/2 S. Randolph - Lexington
463-2618

vomiting and diarrhea and usually
lasts for 48 hours.

“We’ve had more of the diarrhea
thing,” Josephine McCowin, a nurse
at the health center said.

A rapid increase in inﬂuenza
cases around the country is being’
seen earlier than usual this year.

Different types of ﬂu viruses
come around each year. The particu-
lar strain that is prevalent this year is
Shanghai ﬂu.

“Anyone who has not had this
type of ﬂu before is susceptible,”
Horton said.

The ﬂu is spread primarily
through casual contact with people
who have it. The healthy shake hands
with the infected and then put their
own hands over their faces to blow

 
   

We Bly Used CD’s

New Hours
Noon until 9 p.m.
Monday through Saturday
11 S. Randolph St., Lexington
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOO

their noses or mufﬂe a cough.

“Hand washing is the best way
of avoiding transmission,” Horton
explained.

For those who have got the ﬂu,
Horton prescribes “rest, lots of ﬂuids
and Tylenol for the fever.”

Although a vaccine is developed
each year to protect people from the
strain of inﬂuenza expected in the
winter, Horton said that “not many
people take advantage of a vaccine
around here, even though we recom-
mend it."

Horton added that the health cen-
ter is still giving the ﬂu vaccine,
even though it takes six weeks for
the vaccine to have an effect.

“Any protection is better than

none," she said.

SENIORS:

Graduation is almost here!
J ostens will be here

Feb. 5,

6&7

to ﬁt you for cap & gown

to help you order announcements.

W&L Bookstore____

 

  

SPORTS

The Hing-tum Phi, January 25, 1990

Generals’ shooting tells al

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

Basketball is a relatively simple
game to ﬁgure out. If you shoot the
ball well, chances are you’ll win. If
you don’t shoot well, then chances
are you’ll lose.

Case and point the Washington
and Lee basketball team in its three
games last week.

Last Thursday night, W&L had a
chance to avenge its only home loss
in the past two years in Ashland, Va.
against Randolph-Macon. Last Nov-
ember, the Yellow Jackets defeated
the Generals 71-63 in Lexington.

In that game, W&L, playing with
junior forward Ed Hart, shot 35 per-
cent from the floor, probably the
main reason for the loss. This time,
the Generals were without the 6’5”
small forward and they could ill
afford another 35 percent shooting
night.

The Generals didn’t shoot 35
percent. They shot worse. Twenty-
eight percent to be exact. And you’re
all smart enough to ﬁgure the result
of this game out.

Randolph-Macon held W&L to six
season-lows, among them points in
each half and a game (22, 25, 47
respectively), and shooting percentage
(28.6 percent). Only junior forward
Scott Alrutz stood out as a bright
spot. In 19 minutes of action, Alrutz
tallied seven points and a career-high
10 rebounds.

Said W&L head coach Verne
Canﬁeld, “I thought Scott did a good
job coming off the bench. He looked
aggressively at the basket and re-
bounded, and also did a good job
helping us out on defense.”

The loss left W&L 10-4, 6-3 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference. Junior center Chris Jacobs
led the way for W&L with 14 points
and 11 rebounds.

On Saturday against Division H
Queens College, the Generals looked
to get back on the winning track in
the friendly conﬁnes of the Warner
Center. To do so, the Generals need-
ed to shoot better than 28 percent.

Juniors Mike Holton and Craig
Hatﬁeld led the way with the as the
Generals showed that Thursday
night’s shooting was no more than a
bad dream. On the afternoon, W&L
shot a blistering 60.7 percent, and the
result should have been easy to pre-

Junior co-captain Mike Holton

goes up for a shot in W&L’s win over Roanoke on Jan. 11. Holton scored a

career-high 25 points in Saturday's 87-84 overtime win over Division II Queens. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

dict, right? Wrong. The Generals
needed overtime to defeat Queens,
which is in its first year of men’s
basketball.

The Royals stayed close despite
W&L‘s seeming inability to miss
from the floor. In the second stanza,
their were 14 ties and 12 lead chan-
ges. The largest lead either team was

Jacobs becomes 15th
to score 1,000 points

By Debbie Grove
Staff Reporter

If you had told people that Chris
Jacobs would be a 1,000-point scorer
in his junior season after averaging
only eight points a game his fresh-
man season, they would have laughed
you right out of the gym.

Now, halfway through his junior
season, Jacobs is doing all the laugh-
ing — and the scoring.

On Saturday, Jan. 20, against
Queens College, Jacobs became the
seventh junior and ﬁfteenth player in
school history to reach the 1,000-
point plateau. The last junior to reach
the 1,000—point plateau was Hall of
Fame inductee Skip Lichtfuss in
1972-73. ~

Sitting on 999 points coming into
the game, he reached the milestone
with 17:37 to play in the opening
stanza. It would have been a crime
for Jacobs to score the basket on
anything other than his patented tum-
around jump shot, and that’s exactly
how it happened.

Junior guard Jim Casey made the
entry pass, and Jacobs took care of
the rest, knocking down an eight-
foot turnaround to reach 1,000 points.

Said Jacobs, “I feel good about
getting 1,000 points, but the in-
dividual achievements don’t count for
much without the team winning.”

The game was stopped and Jacobs
was presented with the game ball and
a plaque by Athletic Director Mike
Walsh.

In his sophomore season, Jacobs
scored 520 points to help lead the
Generals to the regular season Old
Dominion Athletic Conference title.
Jacobs was also narried ODAC
Player-of—the-Year. He is the first
sophomore to be ODAC Player-of-
the-year.

Jacobs also was named to the first
team all-ODAC, first team all South-
Atlantic Region and honorable men-
tion All-America.

If‘ Jacobs can score 520 more
points in his career, he will move
into fourth place on the all-time
scoring list. Only W&L legends Dom
Flora (2,310), Jay Handlan (2,002),
and Mel Cartwright (1,800) would be
ahead of him.

So far this season, Jacobs has
scored 288 points, starting all 16
games. He has 1,032 for his career.
Earlier this season, against Salisbury
State, Jacobs scored a career-high 35
points.

After going 20-7 last year, both
Jacobs and the Generals are 11-5 and
struggling. After Tuesday night’s loss
to Hampden-Sydney, Jacobs is hoping
the team can get it back together and
make a strong showing to finish out
the season.

“I’m hoping I can help the team
pull together to make sure we got to
the ODAC Final Four. I want us to
win the ODAC tournament and ad-
vance into the NCAA toumament.”

able to attain was just ﬁve points

W&L found itself playing catch-

when Queens led 61-56 with 8:14 to up from that point as Queens went

play.

on an 11-6 run to lead 61-56. When

W&L had opened up a four—point Holton connected on his fourth three-
lead on a four—point play by Holton pointer of the afternoon with 4:56 to

with 15:59 left. W&L led 50418 play.

the Generals were back on top

when Hatﬁeld found freshman Bryan 67-66.

Watkins open on a back-door cut
with 13:48 to play.

Cl Please see SHOOTING page 9

Junior center Chris Jacobs receives a plaque and the game ball from

Saturday's game against Queens College. Jacobs went over the 1,000
point plateau for his career. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

Smith extends win streak to 17 in loss

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men’s
swimrriing team lost its final home
meet of the season on Saturday to
Georgetown, 117-82, despite some
ﬁne individual performances.

"We swam well,” said_head
coach Page Remillard. “We’re com-
ing closer to the teams that used to
handle us.”

Noting that Georgetown has a
large squad, whereas the Generals put
only eight men in the water on Satur-
day, Remillard said, “When we rim
up against depth and diving, our
program is hurt. But we’re still
winning events."

Heading the victory list for the

men was sophomore Jay Srriith.
Smith won the 100-yard and 200-
yard freestyle races with times of
47.57 and 1:47.23.

Smith’s two first—place ﬁnishes
raised his unbeaten streak to 17 vic-
tories. All of his victories have
come in the 50-yard, 100-yard and
200-yard freestyle events. Smith has
already qualified for nationals in the
50-yard and 100-yard events.

Also earning victories for the
Generals were sophomores Doug
Brown and Chip Nordhoff and the
400-yard freestyle relay team.

Brown won the 500-yard freestyle
(4:55.99), while Nordhoff~ ﬁnished
ﬁrst in the 100-yard backstroke (58.2-
1). The relay team, composed of
Smith, Nordhoff, Brown and fresh-
man Chris Hagge, placed ﬁrst with a

time of 3:21.72.

Remillard also said that Hagge
and sophomore - Stuart Towns re-
corded personal bests on Saturday.
Hagge, who ﬁnished second in the
50-yard freestyle, registered a time of
23.58. Towns’ time of 4:25.88 in the
400-yard intermediate race secured a
second—place ﬁnish.

Saturday’s meet was the last one
for the men in Cy Twombly Pool this
season. The 54 Generals, who have
not competed away from home all
season, will head out on the road for
the ﬁnal four dual meets of the sea-
son.

“The men are in a position to
win the rest of their meets, but they
can‘t afford to miss a beat,” Remill-
ard said.

This weekend, W&L will travel to

Shephard College on Friday and then
move on to Gettysburg College for a
meet on Saturday. The Generals’ last
two dual meets before the Atlantic
States Championships will be at Rad-
ford and Mary Washington.

“We're turning the comer, and

now the season is heading into the

home stretch," said Remillard. “Our

workouts have to be good to prepare
us for the end of the season.

Said Remillard, “We go on the
road for the rest of the season, and
we start by going against Shephard
and Gettysburg. Both meets will be
close, but Gettysburg will be very
tough.

“I feel we're ready for the chal-
lenge if our health holds. Now we’ll
just have to do it.”

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

I’m embarrassed

the court.

Canfield was Tuesday night.

most?

to win?
So far, no.

Generals came to play.

up to play that game.

second half.

to beat them by four. .

Hampden-Sydney 83, Washington and Lee 63. I’m ernbarrassed.
I never thought I’d hear myself say it, but I have to. I m embarrassed
by the way the Washington and Lee basketball team is carrying itself on

But I’m not the only one who is embarrassed. If you read the article
across the page, you probably saw how embarrassed head coach Verne

What is the matter with the team anyway? It’s just a simple question,
but no one I've talked to can seem to pinpoint an answer.

Back in September, we were looking at basically the same team that
won 20 games and the regular season Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championship. Only Lee Brading did not return, and he graduated.

What is so different about this year’s team? Why isn’t it playing like
it can? Why does W&L have five losses when we should have two at

The answer, I think, can be found in a few words. Emotion. Guts.
Desire. Simply put, does this team have the guts and the desire it takes

It all goes back to last season. The Generals ﬁnished 20-7, but they
started 19-3. The season ended in the Salem Civic Center in the
championship game of the ODAC toumament. Hampden-Sydney trounced
the Generals 87-66 in a game where it looked like only one or two

Call me crazy, but is it really just a coincidence that the Generals were
trounced Tuesday night by, guess who, Hampden-Sydney? Again, it
looked like only one or two players came to play. All of the Tigers came
to play. As far as they're concerned, if they never win another game,
they'll be happy as long as they beat Washington & Lee.

These aren’t the only two instances. A one-point loss at Bridgewater
came as a shock to most people. This was the Bridgewater team that lost
in Lexington by 21 points one month earlier. Absolutely no one showed

At Virginia Wesleyan, ﬁve players were benched because they weren't
concentrating on the task at hand. Against Emory, the team blew a lead
late in the game and lost by five. Against Eastern Mennonite, the
Generals have to win from behind after opening up a 21-point lead in the

It’s nothing complex, just guts. Do you have the guts to put it all on
the line three nights a week? Is that too much to ask?

Tonight against Emory & Henry, in a game which will in all likelihood
determine the rest of the season, the Generals will be faced with a
challenge that they are facing in all but three ODAC opponents. Emory
& Henry is playing the game knowing that they lost both games against
the Generals last season. Only Hampden-Sydney and Eastern Mennonite
beat W&L last season. Randolph-Macon wasn’t in the conference.

The Generals have seen it before, and they haven’t reacted. They beat
Bridgewater twice last season and once this year, but the Eagles handed
one to the Generals this season. W&L beat Roanoke thrice last year, but
the Maroons did not die this year. They gave W&L a scare before falling
by nine. So did Eastern Mennonite. It took four last minute free throws

People are out to get W&L this year, and they have yet to react.
Granted, they have played since the ﬁrst game of 1990 without 6—foot—
5 junior forward Ed Hart, but playing without Hart can no longer be
accepted as an excuse. Using his absence as an excuse would be taking
the easy way out, and good teams - teams with guts — don’t do that.

In the eight games since Hart has been out, only one player is scoring
better than he did before Hart went out. The team rebounding margin has

C] Please see GUTS page 9 _

Pilkey getstwo victories as
fresh get valued experience

By John Neumann
Staﬁ‘ Reporter

The Washington and Lee wrestling
squad learned a valuable lesson last
weekend at the Newport News Ap-

’ prentice Toumarnent.

Junior co-captain Larry Pilkey
came up with the Generals only two
victories against an extremely high
level of competition.

W&L head coach Gary Franke
chalked up the weekend’s results as
a learning experience as every other
W&L wrestler, except for Pilkey, lost
two matches and were quickly elimin-
ated.

Franke said, “It was a good ex-
perience and we can benefit from that
and now we have to look to our own
invitational.” This weekend, W&L
will host the annual W&L Invitation-
al.

One aspect that Franke will work
on with his team is technical skill,
with special emphasis placed on
footwork. Said Franke, “We just
aren’t converting from on our feet to
the mat.”

The competition last weekend was
the toughest that the Generals have
faced or will face this year. There

were exceptional athletes participating
in the tournament and Coach Franke
commented, “The tournament built a
positive experience and this week will
not be as tough a tournament.”

Inexperience is still hurting the
Generals and the seven starting fresh-
men are still developing the technical
aspect of wrestling, but are gaining
the necessary experience with every
weekend.

Franke will not prepare his team
any differently for this weekend’s
tournament but will shake things up
a little when the Generals will prac-
tice with VMI once this week just to
give both squads a change of pace.

This Saturday at 10 a.m., the
Generals will host eight other teams
for the W&L Invitational. Joining the
Generals on the mats will be David-
son, Furman, Gallaudet, Haverford,
Longwood, Messiah, Newport News
Apprentice, and Scranton.

Franke is confident that “a number
of kids can place in the invitational
this Saturday.” -

The team has completed almost
half of its slate, and Franke expects
an up-beat second half. “We have
four good weeks left and we’re going
to make it as challenging( as we

91

can.

Freshmen Dudley, Sauers
bring sunshine to Twombly

 

By Amy Packard
Staff Reporter

Individual performances helped to
offset the 110.5-92.5 loss the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s swimming
team experienced last Saturday at the
hands of Georgetown.

Head Coach Page Remillard said
that, despite Georgetown’s victory,
W&L is progressing impressively
toward its goal of swimming a non-
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
meet.

“We seem to be days away from
that accomplishment. The swims are
producing just what we’re looking
for,” said Remillard.

Among the women who swam
outstanding races against Georgetown
is freshman Claire Dudley who broke
her own school record in the 400-IM
event.

Remillard also praised the efforts
of freshman Stephanie Sauers, sopho-

more Jodi Herring, and junior Sharon '

Coleman who all continue to contrib-

ute top-level performances.

Dudley won two races, the 100-
breast as well as the 400-IM. Sauers
was victorious in both the 50-and
100-free races. Herring brought home
ﬁrst place in the 1000-free.

“Now we’re hoping that every-
one will turn in her top swims. We
are getting closer and closer to that
time. An eighteen point difference in
ﬁnal scores is not disappointing con-
sidering the that Georgetown women
ﬁnished eighth iri the Nationals last

- year,” Remillard said.

W&L’s next swims on the road
against Shepherd College on Friday
and Gettysburg College on Saturday.

“They are always tough teams,”
said Remillard, “but the Shepherd
meet may be very close. they could
be vulnerable if we swim well and
have some luck.”

The loss to Georgetown left W&L
3-6 on the season. The Generals are
3-0 in ODAC competition and domi-
nate the best times in each event

again this season.
l

 

 1

GUTS

from page 8

The Fling-tum Phl, January 25, 1990

SHOOTING

from page 8

The teams then traded baskets

until Jacobs hit both Ends of a two-
shot opportunity to give the Generals
a 73-71 lead. Queens tied the game
at 73, but Holton put/W&L back on
top with 1:33 to play 75-73. Queens
tied the game again, and Holton
promptly untied it with just :46 to
play with two free throws.

With :16 to play, junior point
guard Jim Casey fouled Queens’
Marcus Stubbleﬁeld, and the fresh-
man responded by knocking down
both shots to send the game into
overtime tied at 77.

The overtime belonged to Hatﬁeld.
After Stubbleﬁeld gave the Royals an
81-79 lead, Hatfield tied the game.
Aikens then converted a three-point
play with 2:34 to play in the extra
session.

Hatﬁeld then scored two straight
baskets, both on offensive rebound
stick-backs, to give W&L an 85-84
lead'with :53 seconds to play. Hol-
ton iced the 87-84 win over Division
II Queens with two foul shots with
:08 left.

On the afternoon, Holton equalled
his career-high with 25 points, includ-
ing nine of nine from the free throw
line. Hatﬁeld continues to shoot with
amazing accuracy from the ﬁeld,
connecting on 12 of 15 shots for a
season-high 24 points. He also grab-
bed nine rebounds. Hatﬁeld is shoot-
ing 72.9 percent from the ﬁeld over
his last seven games (35 of 48).

Despite the win, Canfield is still
not pleased with the way the team
has played. “Last year, we had four
or ﬁve people overachieve each
game. We need that to happen this
season, and it’s not. Instead, we have
four or ﬁve players underachieving,
and only one or two playing as they
are capable.”

Last Tuesday against arch-rival
Hampden-Sydney, all that need be
said is embarrassed. That's how Can-
ﬁeld felt after the game, and that’s
how he thought the players should
have felt after the game.

Holton gave the Generals a 51-49

lead with 11:00 to play on a three-

point goal. From that point on, it was
all Hampden-Sydney, as Russell Tur-

ner came off the bench to score 26.

points on 10-of-11 shooting to lead
the Tigers to an 83-63 win in Lexi-
ngton. From the 11:00 mark, the
Generals were outscored 34-12. The
Generals shot just 43.1 percent for
the game.

Said Canfield, “I was thoroughly
embarrassed. I have never been so
embarrassed in my twenty-six years
at Washington and Lee University.
We got exactly what we deserved.
We didn’t come ready to play and
we didn’t react during the game.
Harnpden-Sydney deserves their win.
Absolutely no one played.well for us
and we didn’t play well at either end
of the floor.”

The loss left the Generals 11-5, 6-
4 in ODAC going into tonight's
game with second place Emory and
Henry. The Wasps sport the con-
ference’s leading scorer in Leon Hill
(24.9 ppg.) Game time is at 7:30 in
the Warner Center.

The game will be carried both on

radio (WLUR-FM 91.5) and tele-
vision. WJPR-Lynchburg (Lexington
Cable 22) will show the game tape-
delayed tomorrow night at 10:00.

BOX SCORE

IIAMPDEN-SYDNEY (83)

Barber 2-4 2-2 6, Musilli 0-1 0-0 0, Bmeﬁel
0-1 2-2 2. Mulquin S-7 5-7 16. Camohan 3-5 1-2
8, Blake 1-6 2-2 5, Pane:-uy 3-6 0-1 6, Butcher 2-
3 0-0 4, Carver 1-1 0-0 2, Clark 3-8 2-2 B. Turner
10-11 6-8 26. Totals 30-53 20-26 83.
WASHINGTON AND LEE (63)

Manson 0-0 0-0 0, Holton 2-6 2-2 8, Brading
0-0 0-0 0, Penn 1-1 0-0 2, Hughes 0-1 0-0 0,
Melton 0-6 1-3 1, Gallavan 0-2 0-0 0. Casey 5-6
44 15, Hatﬁeld 4-7 0-0 8, Jacobs 8-16 2-2 18,
Alrutz 3-9 1-2 7, Watkins 0-2 0-0 0, Witherington
2-3 0-0 4. Pridgen 0-0 04) 0, Faulkner 0-0 0-0 0.
Totals 25-58 10-13 63.

Halftime-34-32, W&L. Three-point goals-I-I-S (3-
9) Mulquin 1, C mohan 1. Blake 1; W&L (3-10)
Holt!!! 2. Casey 1. Tall fouls-H-S 17, W&L 23.
Fouled out-Casey, Hatﬁeld. Technical fouls-Clank.
Casey. Rebounds-H-S 34 (Mulquin 7). W&L 29
(Jacobs 9). Assists-I-I-S 17 (Barber,Camohan 5).
W&L 6 (Holton 2). A-897.

‘ Junior foward Ed Hart shoots in a game against Randolph-Maconhin
November. The team has not been the same since l_-lart went down with
an injury against Clarkson. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

C

gone from +6 to -1. Team scoring has dropped 10 points. When he went
down, Hart was averaging 11.9 points and 6.8 rebounds. Most
importantly, the team is» only 5-3 without him, 3-3 in the conference.

, Some of the blame has to fall on the coach. He must find
combinations that will plug the gaping hole that Hart left and play

successfully. So far, that hasn’t happened. Some players have played OK,
, most have not, and still others haven’t really gotten a good look.

We are not talking about a 0-16 team. This team is 11-5 playing with
the guts of a 0-16 team. An 0-16 team isn’t sure of itself and has no
reason to be. That ought to be far from the case with this W&L team.
That is what is most disturbing.

I’m a fan like the rest of the W&L community. We’re not asking for
the moon, just for a team that strives for it. A good fan is like a good
parent, expectations may be high, but not unreal.

The bottom line is this. It is gut-check time in Lexington, Va. Don’t
whine that the sports editor wrote a column questioning your desire to.
win. React. Hate me if you have to. But if you don’t do anything else:
Pull on the shorts. Lace the sneakers up extra tight. And as Nike says:
JUST DO IT.

A
‘ Ir

Q‘;

Flying _ ,
Junior Sharon Coleman is on her way to a win over Hollins in the 100- and has the team's best time in five events this season. W&L file photo
butterfly in December. Coleman has been a mainstay for the Generals by W. Patrick Hinely.

A 3, 5 u 0 5 "2

D

, fZJEAT SMART 3

K The Zeta Tau Chapter of

Kappa Kappa Gamma

AMERICAN
ycmcisiz
: SOCIETY“

 

Congratulations

FACULTY _ STUDENTS Our 1 990 Pledge Class

Your College I.D. is Good For
gmmcm
9i?;@Q5’a.w
/{aczéeagara/a/none
%~@€oa.u'/w
6a/«oékw 5&1/ate
6%u>«a@m/4%
Waéomgqyam ..
é’mAe¢%/%/zcoeé
/{%@%¢w
jﬁaéeﬁw
ﬁeaﬁcam
ﬁve?/mew
%z@.>,%a.éa
Qifogmﬂﬁéam’

We Welcome You!

I Love,
The Sisters of Zeta Tau

ﬂ%z.sowJ/zuzd
ﬁérotftewaml
%/wtfatz/e
éﬁgrw/.0/'"q¢/or
@ax«yuam%<,4a
ﬁytoﬂ/‘7Vako/o
X/W Way

AT DRS. BLUM, NEWMAN, BLACKSTOCK St ASSOCIATES

OPTOMETRISTS, P.C.

Contact lenses too! Bu a pair of tinted contacts
and get a pair 0 clear contacts free!

I BUY ONE PAIR—GET SECOND PAIR |

nrs.BIum,NeIarman, i 

Blaclrstnclr & Associates I
| Present this coupon and receive a free pair of glasses

OPTOMETRISTS. P. c. |
l
I when you purchase a complete pair of glasses. Or, buyl
a pair of tinted contacts and get a pair of clear contacts
I free. some restrictions apply—ask for details. Offer expires l

Lexington-Buena Vista I Febmwy 15 1990.

Shopping Center
Lexington
463-1600

I Coupon must be presented at time of optical purchase. I
No other distouiits apply

i Drs. mum, Newman, i
I Blaclistack & Associates I

L °’°’°l"='_T_"1£’i’ZE~_l

  

W&L|FE

VMI opens roles
for South Pacific

From press releases

All area residents are welcome to
participate in the VMI Theatre's open
auditions for its spring production of
the Rodgers and Hammerstein musi-
cal, South Pacific, Tuesday, Wednes-
day and Thursday, January 30 and
31, and February 1, in Lejeune Hall,
Upper Level, at VMI, from 8 to 10
p.rn.

Set on a South Paciﬁc island in
1944, this popular play is known for
such favorite songs as "Some En-
chanted Evening." "Younger Than
Springtime," "I'm Gorma Wash That
Man Right Out of My Hair," and
other familiar Rodgers and Harn-
merstein melodies.

Singing roles for men include the
lead role of Emile De Becque, a
French planter, age 40 to 50,
baritone; Lt. Joe Cable, USMC, early
20s, tenor; Luther Billis, a comic
character; Stewpot; the Professor, a
bass; Jerome, a Polynesian boy, age
8; and a chorus of sailors, seabees,
and marines. Some simple dance

movements is required of some of the
men's chorus.

Non-singing roles for women
include the lead role of Ensign Nellie
Forbush, early 20s mwerate soprano
range; Bloody Mary, native Tonkinese
woman, age late 30s to mid-40s, alto;
Ngana, A Polynesian girl, age 11;
and a chorus of Navy nurses.

One non-singing role is Liat,
Bloody Mary’s native daughter, age
15 to 17. some simple dance move-
ment is required for Llat and the
chorus of nurses.

Singers may bring sheet music for
a song of their choice to perform at
auditions. An accompanist will be
provided. Music from South Paciﬁc
will be taught to anyone wishing to
sing a song from the show.

Anyone interested in helping with
sets, costumes, make-up, lighting, or
props should also sign up at audi-
tions.

Rehearsals begin February 5, and
run Monday through Thursday even-
ings from 8 to 10 p.m. the full cast
is not called every night, and special
rehearsals are arranged with in-

The Ring-tum Phi, January 25, 1990

dividuals. Production dates are April
11- 14 and 18 - 21.

South Paciﬁc will be directed by
VMI Theatre director Joellen K.
Bland, with music direction by Jane

Stacy Rorrer. Cadet Harold A. Stills
will be accompanist.

For further information, call the

VMI Theatre office at 464-7389.

Businesses discontinue charging home

By Chris Baradel
Staff Reporter

The student privilege of charging
home items front local stores has
recently been revoked by two Lex-
ington businesses.

The Sycarnore Farm Market and
the Lexington Hardware Company
have discontinued the practice of
letting students bill their accounts
directly home.

Betty Becker, co-owner of Syc-
amore Farm, said, “We just discon-
tinued charging home last week. Last
year, we didn’t have any problems
with students, but this year we have.

We have some bills that are four
months old.”

“We don’t let people charge
home anymore because lots of times
the parents wouldn't pay,“ said Ju-
nior Earhart, an assistant manager at
Lexington Hardware Company.

Although just about every store
admitted to having some problems
with individual charge accounts, most
stores said students are very good
customers. Spokesmen from Lloyd’s,
McCrum’s and the Whitefront Market
said allowing students to charge
goods home has deﬁnitely improved
their business.

The tradition of W&L students
charging merchandise or food home

is a long__ one. The College Town
Shop has allowed items to be billed
home since the store opened in 1926
and Alvin-Dennis has had a charge
program since it opened in 1963.

Jeff Kelsey, a W&L Law School
student who has worked at Alvin-
Dennis for four years, said his store
has an interesting system for collect-
ing delinquent accounts. “Student
employees who might know [the
offender] will call and remind him to
pay his account,” he said. “No one
has ever run out on a bill, to my
knowledge.”

According to Phyllis Miller, the
owner of McCrum’s, the charge pro-
gram she began ﬁve years ago is one

of the advantages her store has over
chain drugstores. She said that while
it has helped business “a lot,” the
store has had some problems with
students at Southern Seminary abus-
ing the privilege.

Anything the drugstore sells can
be charged home, she said.

Sam Moore, manager and co-
owner of Whitefront, said he hasn’t
seen any drawbacks to his charge
program. He said the program began
15 years ago, but has only really
been promoted in the last five or six
years. He did have one complaint,
however: “Not nearly as many stu-
dents take advantage of the program
as should [be doing so!]"

This space contributed as a public service.

EIGHT REASONS

DIPPING IS FOR DIPS.

DON'T USE SNUFF OR CHEWING TOBACCO.

10

W&L grad hopes to
wrestle internationally

 

By Blair Simmons
Staff Reporter

John Lowe, class of ‘87, is trying
to raise enough money to compete in
an international wrestling competition
in Venezuela in July.

Lowe is associated with Athletes
in Action, a non-proﬁt Christian
organization that makes it possible for
athletes to compete internationally.

Lowe said he needs $3,500 to
train and compete in the Caracus
Cup. He said he will train for two
weeks in Colorado Springs and then
go to Venezuela to train for one
week before the competition.

Athletes are accepted into the
program on the basis of their athletic
ability and their reasons for wanting
to participate, said Lowe. He said
they are required to raise the money
for training, travel and living ex-
penses.

“It’s a great way to keep my
priorities in line,” said Lowe. “A
lot of times athletes get caught up in
trying to be successful and forget
what is important to them.”

Lowe, 24, said he will be wres-
tling Free-style in the Caracus Cup.
Free-style consists of take-downs
only, with no mat wrestling. He said
he also competes Greco-Roman.

Greco-Roman is mat wrestling
with all throws and no feet.

Having read about Athletes in
Action in wrestling magazines, Lowe
called Fellowship of Christian Ath-
letes national headquarters for infor-
mation last summer. FCA put him in
contact with Athletes in Action.

Lowe said he was attracted to the
program because Terry Cummings, a
professional basketball player, had
been involved in Athletes in Action’s
basketball program.

Five days a week Lowe gets up
at 5 a.m. to lift weights at the

YMCA one half hour from his home.
He also practices with the high-school
wrestling team he coaches. He said

-. 3313? 

’—’,
ii”
J.

3'5;  _

'1" gm . .ii,..~ mtﬂvail. i

as‘?
~—‘ —

. All I Really Need to Know l Learned in Kincergarten
(lay. S5 95 ) r,l:iccmmori thoughts. Km C(‘il‘llWtlll tni ‘qs

The Calvin mid Hobbes Lazy Suimiay Book. by {sin
Watterson lfrririre-ws & Nl<:.’ttet.- . L315: 9-’;
. The Prehistory ot the Far Side. by Gary La‘-50':

(Andrews 8. :‘»‘icMecl $12 95.; Larson 5 notes and Sl'.r=.t:.IW 5

r . The Night or the Mary Kay Commandos. tr Berxr Fireathi.-ii‘
(Little, Brown, $7 £23.) More Hizicrn County (‘

.. The Shell Seekers. by Rosamunde F'lii‘i‘.cr iljiiall, 4 95.;
Novel of passion and lioartbrtiak set in Loi.dor- and Cornwali

John Lowe

he plans to start running as soon as
daylight-saving time begins and will
train at the Naval Academy Summer
Wrestling Camp in June.

“I'm about the best at the state
level, and I was looking for ways to
get to the national level,” said Lowe,
who has been wrestling for about 11
years.

“For a long time I was very
mediocre at wrestling, but I haven't
been in a tournament in three years
that I haven't placed in,” said Lowe.

Lowe said his most successful
year wrestling at W&L was as a ﬁfth
year senior; he did not compete his
junior year.

In addition to being an athlete at
W&L, he was a Dorm Counselor, a
Ring-tum Phi sports writer and car-
toonist, a GHQ waiter, a member of
the FCA, a high school soccer refer-
ee, and a high school prayer group
leader.

Lowe majored in English and
Spanish and is currently teaching
drama, Spanish and English, as well
as coaching wrestling and tennis at
Easton High School in Maryland.

In 1988 Lowe placed second in
the Virginia Open and in 1989 he
placed second in the Mid-Atlantic
District Tournament and won the
Maryland State Games, he said.

l Ccrietitcio cartoons

CHIS

. Breathing Lessons. by!-nrtelyler (Eicrkle-y.$.‘3 50 )An ordmery
married couple discovers now extraordinary their Wves roaliy are.

. The Sands or Time, by Sidney Sheldon iW£i'l1et, '55 ‘'15 i F our
women encotiirter unexpected ('l~'3:)'li'il€S after fleeing a convent

. Chaos, by James Gie-ck [PE‘fl§1U‘:'l.$8 95,
Records the birth of a new science

. Trevayne. by Ruben tudliim. (Bantam, $5.95)
7 he prob:n_ri of at “hidden guw;-rnnient ‘ within the Government

. Stolen Blessings, by Lawrence Sanders. it-ieri«iey_ $4.96)
Scaririalous iite 01 a Hollywood superstar.

i .V.,.,_.  ..

i‘lew"& Recommended

mu. -3‘ ’El>!\ll.’)'l.’l :.ii.v:, Kiiegmar‘ rim ;

’ml\‘i'KiKly A .~.iii- '>

The Lyre of Orpheus, by Robertson Davies (Penqiiin $8.95 3
A biting satire on the artistic muse tuls of eccentiir; characters.

The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul, by Douglas Adams.
(Pocket, $4 95.) Delightfully puzzling novel, gating Dirk Gently not
only against the Laws ot the Universe, but also the Norse Gods.

Black-Eyed Susana/Midnight Birds,

by Mary Heien Washington, Ed. (Doubleday. $12 95.)
Collection, by and about black women. featuring the work of
todays most celebrated black women writers.

ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUELISNERS NAHONAL ASSOCMYICN Of COLLEGE STORES

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR
FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

OXFORD

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The
Washington lntematlonal Studies Council to recommend
qualiﬁed students to study for one year or for one or two
terms. Lower Junior status is required. and graduate study
is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges
and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NUI‘
a program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2
minimum index in major required.

An altemattve program which is sponsored by a U.S.
University is available for students with minimum indexes of
2.7. Students will have social and athletic rights in an Oxford
college and the fees are substantially less.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer intemships with Congress. with the
White House. with the media and with think tanks.
Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior-
level government officials. who are also scholars. and by
experienced journalists. Similar opportunities in public
policy intemshtps are offered (with academic credit) in
L°nd°n (Fall. Spring and Summer).

80

E0/AA

The Washington
International Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E.
Suite 450

Washington. D.C. 20002

(202) 547-3275

    

O

V

0

¢~C‘7C“.

.-O

‘V

4

 

 

  

E

4'

‘ By Joel Dyes
1 Staﬁ‘ Reporter

Edltor’s note: Fiction writer John Updike gave a reading Monday in Lee
" Chapel. Updike, who is best known for his Rabbit, Run series and The
‘Witches of Eastwick, has won numerous awards for his work, including a
Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award. At the reading, which was
‘sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Foundation, Updike read several of
‘ his poems and ten pages from his latest manuscript, the fourth Rabbit book.
The following questions and answers were taken from a question and answer
I session after the reading or an interview with Updike Tuesday morning.
‘ Q: You said that someone brought up doing a biography and this inspired
,Self-Consciousness. Surely, a man of your stature has received this proposal
before. Why now? And why the six subjects you cover in the book?
‘ (Shillington, PA; Skin; Stuttering; On Not Being a Dove; Letter to Grand-
‘sons; On Being Self Forever)

A: It’s not really been often suggested that the biography be done. I can
only think of one case. It was a man in Pennsylvania, who had befriended
my mother. He seemed serious enough for me to take alarm and try to pre-
tempt his strike. As to why it’s in six chapters instead of consecutive...well,

I was trying really trying to write a kind of series of essays about being

myself, my life as I saw it and not just trying to give the facts which
1 anybody could do. It was an exploration rather than an exposition of my life

you could say.
A

. Q: On Page 65 of Self-Consciousness you said, "Nevertheless, however
liberal my views, I had no dealings with blacks either as equals or as
‘ servants and was shy and nervous about them. Then you go on to mention
,, at Harvard there were two, who had left by your junior year, at The New
Yorker there weren’t any nor were there any in Ipswich. Yet, in the letter to
4 your grandsons you mention your older daughter married a West African.
Was it hard to deal with when your daughter told you about this man she'd
fallen in love with, was it like Guess Who's Coming to Dinner revisited?

A: No. It really wasn’t. The guy appears to be such a good husband and

’ father and makes Liz happy. Also, I hope I’m a sufficiently good American
, and a good liberal not to be... Who knows what I really felt? But, I think the
main thing was my daughter seemed happy about it, and so we all were
I happy about it. And, she’s produced two lovely grandsons. And, you'll be
interested to know that whether modeling himself after her or not, my older
son has now married a girl from Kenya and just produced a half-African
~, Updike. So I have three grandchildren, all of them half-African. I'm an

\ African grandfather. It is true that the upbringing I had was a very all-white

small town conservative American upbringing. Shillington (Pennsylvania) did
,. not have many blacks, if any.

‘ Q: Did your mother inﬂuence your career at all?

is A: My mother died this October, I’m sorry to say. But I can’t even begin

‘- to guess how much she inﬂuenced my career. Certainly, even on the
conscious level, to see her trying to write and to see the envelopes go out
and come back gave me the idea that this was something worth trying to do.

9 Then as I aged and did begin to write, her own remarks were often quite

‘ helpful. But, she wasn’t overly helpful. She kind of had a nice touch, I
thought, with me as a writer and then, as a published writer there was a lot

I I wrote that she just as soon I hadn't written. But, she never complained.

‘ Above all the niceness as a human being, she also had pretty good taste, I
think. And her feeling for literature and words certainly inﬂuenced me.

Q.

Q: In an interview with William Styron last summer, he said writers, like
priests, are called to their profession. Do you agree?

:Assistant professor to be
§JMU composer-in-residence

A

The Fling-rum Phi, January 25, 1990

A: Bill probably has a slightly more priestly view of the profession than
I do. I did from quite early on want to do something creative, but I basically
drew initially. My first ambition was to be a cartoonist or an artist of some
kind. And that rather slowly evolved into being a writer which seemed to be
what I could actually make a living at. So, no, as a little fellow I didn't
think I was going to be a writer. But, I did want to do something where I
wouldn’t have to put on a suit and go to teach high school like my father
did.

Q: About sex. George W. Hunt said in John Updike and the three great
secret things: Sex, Religion and Art, “(For Updike) Sex is the closest to a
religious experience that the physical world provides.” He said that the
protagonist often searches for spiritual satisfaction in sexual encounters. Do
you agree with that?’ You have pretty explicit sex scenes. Is that to sell
books or does it have some higher meaning?

A: Father Hunt is, of course, a Jesuit and has his own slant on all this.
Certainly, sex is a vivid and mysteriously meaningful physical experience.
I've tried to describe it in the fiction in part because it was there to describe
and also I was attempting to show the personalities continuing through the
bedroom door as it were. I think sex is a human action like many another
and is entitled to maybe the same kind of coverage that other actions get. I
don’t do it as thoroughly now as I did in my thirties. Maybe it’s been done
by me and others enough for the time being.

Q: Are you a sports fan? Do you like basketball? How about the Boston Red
Sox? Do they have a future? Edltor’s Note: Harry Angstrom, the hero of
Updike’s Rabbit series, is a basketball star.

A: I’m a middling sports fan. There are many men and some women who
are more ardently involved in sports than I arri. As a high school kid, I
naturally was exposed to games and went to them. I wasn't a jock, but I did
certainly go to a lot of games including basketball games. And that gave me
my interest I suppose in ex-basketball players which has come out in a
number of forms. For some reason, in Pennsylvania, I did take a shine to the
Boston Red Sox. I think specifically Ted Williams. And one of the charms
of moving to New England for me was that I’d be near the Red Sox and
Williams. When he retired in 1960, I wrote my one sports article about it
and haven’t been quite has interested since. But, yeah, I follow them and go
to maybe two games a summer. They're a struggling organization at the
moment.

Q: In Newsweek, Peter S. Prescott praises everything in Self-Consciousness
except “On Not Being a Dove." He said that you do not take into account
that the resistance to the Vietnam war was many—sided and included shy
conservatives as well as the zanies. He goes on to write, “It’s astonishing
that a writer so sensitive to the tremors of our national anxieties should so
misread the great crisis of our time." How do you feel about his criticism?

A: Well, my whole, somewhat conservative feelings about Vietnam
troubled me at the time and still do. But I don’t think Peter is quite with
what I was trying to do. I wasn’t trying to justify anything. I was trying to
describe my own feelings and my own reaction and using my reaction which
wasn't a straight-down-the-line liberal reaction as an index for my own
political character. I wasn’t trying to write a history of the Vietnam conﬂict
or the resistance to it. I was trying to describe how I felt, and I think the
chapter stands perfectly well as an account of my own feelings. No, I wasn’t
too impressed by that remark of Prescott’s. But then one tends not to be
impressed by adverse critical remarks.

Q: How do you handle reviews?

A: Depends. The worst ones are the very intelligent adverse ones. The
ones that seem both intelligent and sort of anti the book. But, in the end,

A conversation with authorJohn Updike

Photo by Hana Hamplova

you can only go ahead and do your own thing.‘I mean you can’t change the
book in question because it’s out. It’s done. You did your best. And as for
trying to change future books to suit this critic, I think you probably
wouldn't please him or her anyway. And, in general, so yes I do read them
sometimes, when I can’t avoid it. But you try not to clutter up you head
with too many reviews.

 One of my professors called you a prodigy. Do you feel like a
prodigy?

A: Not really. I'd been sending things to The New Yorker since about the
age of sixteen so I had had a certain amount of rejection. At college,
although I plugged away I basically was not in the top echelon of cherished
writers. I felt that my stuff had a faintly kind of faintly crass, edge; and I
came quite late to reading the modernist classics. So I was in many ways
kind of an uncouth ﬁgment at college. As you say, I got a couple of breaks
at the age of 22 and kept at it. But, you know, I've tried in a fairly hard
working way to capitalize on my breaks to exploit the opening once it
appeared.

versity, and Indiana University. She
has studied composition with Donald
Erb, Harvey Sollberger, George
Crumb, Frederick Fox, and Tom
Clark, and worked in master classes
with Jacob Druckinan, Bemard
Rands, and Morton Feldman.
Brouwer was recently composer-
in-residence at the University of
Idaho, where she gave master classes
and a recital of her works was pres-
ented. She has also been composer-
in-residence at Texas Tech University,
the University of New Mexico, and
on the faculty at the National Music
Camp in Interlochen, Mich. Brouwer
has been awarded a certificate from
the National Foundation for Advance-
ment in the Arts in recognition of
dedicated and inspired teaching.
Many of Brouwer’s works have
been performed in concerts across the
country. her work for orchestra,
“Third from the Sun,” was per-
formed recently by the Saint Louis

Symphony Orchestra at the American
Symphony Orchestra's League's New
Music Reading Session and by the
Concert Orchestra of Indiana Univer-
sity. “Two Pieces for Viola” was
performed in October by Ellen Rose,
principal violist of the Dallas Sym-
phony in Miami, Fla. “Sonata for
Violin and Piano” was performed at
the Society of Composers, Inc. annual
meeting in Tallahassee, Fla., and the
Southeastern Composer League Forum
in Greensboro, N.C. “Timespan” for
brass quintet was performed at The
College Music Society Mid-Atlantic
Chapter meeting in College Park, Md.

Congratulations
Chi Omega
Pledge Class

,From the W&L News Office

' Margaret Brouwer, assistant pro-

vfessor of music at Washington and
Lee University, will be one of three
""' composers-in-residence at James Mad-
.ison University from Feb. 5-8. Join-
ing Brouwer will be composer Ste-
‘phen Paulus of Minnesota and choral
composer Daniel Pinkharn of the New
England Conservatory (Boston).
« During the week-long festival,
' “Music of Our Time,” a number of
Brouwer’s compositions will be per-
4 formed by the members of the faculty
at J.M.U., “Two Pieces for Viola,"
‘ “Scherzoid” for solo horn, and
. “Timespan" for brass quintet.
Brouwer joined the music faculty
' at Washington and Lee in September
, 1988 where she teaches courses in
composition, theory and violin. She
a hold degrees from Oberlin Conserva-
. tory of Music, Michigan State Uni-

Brouwer’s music is recorded on
the Opus One label. She has received
grants from Indiana University,
WESTAF Meet the Composer, Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts, the
Indiana Arts Commission, and Wash-
ington and Lee University Glenn
Grants.

4

‘ Best Fundraisers On Campus!

Is your fraternity, sorority or club interested
in earning $1,000 + for a one-week, on-
campus marketing project? You must be
well-organized and hard working. Call Jenny
or Myra at (800) 592-2121 .

  
     
   
        
 

 
 

George’s
Hairstylist

136 Varner Lane

9

Chocolate lips.

   

. . Directly behind Leggett's
‘ Hugs and kisses confetti. 463_3975 '
‘ Okﬂashioned and‘ We carry Nexxus, Redkeri & Paul Mitchell
contemporary expressions Open Evenings
. of love. Mon.-Thurs. till we p.m. 6  ‘A
/72¢!‘

A Balloon bouquets. Ow/it/Z‘6%

faarw Waegﬂa/z
2?a.¢ﬂeée/- '

Victorian Valentine boxes.

Gift wrap and UPS service.
» 4'»

rmcaun owe

. 812 PLEASURES

‘ 117 West Nelson Street/Lexington.
Open daily 10 AM - 6 PM
Sunday Noon - 6 PM

0 Cosmetics 0Per;ﬁ4mes

Prescriptions .
0 Free Delivery

Charge Accounts

 

 

  

EBACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phl, January 25, 1990

Born on the 4th of JuIy:a soIid“A”

By Todd Peppers
Entertainment Columnist

In the early nineteen-eighties the Vietnam war
was a taboo subject for Hollywood producers.
They claimed that the pain from the american
involvement in Vietnam would not translate into
box ofﬁce success. Oliver Stone’s “Platoon”
cleared away those misconceptions. The movie
was a harrowing, painful account of one soldier’s
numbing experiences in a war he could not
fathom. After the triumph of “Platoon,” the
Vietnam experience has become almost “faddish.”
Television offers its viewers “Tour of Duty,”
“China Beach," and “Letters Home.” The
movie theater counters with “Full Metal Jacket”
and “Casualties of War.” Several of these
productions admirably portray the war’s futility;
others ﬁt the role of cheap exploitation ﬁlms that
ignore the human condition and focus on violence
and gore. ‘i

“Bom on the Fourth of July" should be the
ﬁnal chapter to these movies and television shows.
While “Platoon” dealt with the horror of war,
“Bom on the Fourth of July” focuses on one
man--Ron Kovic--and the horrors of going home
again. Director Olive Stone started this flourish of
Vietnam story lines. I think it is only fitting that
he ﬁnishes it with a gripping tale of one vet-
eran’s struggle to “be whole again.” This is a
movie that you should not miss.

“Bom on the Fourth of July” is based on the
autobiography of Vietnam veteran Ron Kovic.
The war plays an important role in the movie, but,
unlike “Platoon,” Kovic’s war is not only fought
on the battle ﬁeld, but in a veteran’s hospital, the
home, and, ultimately, at the 1972 Republican
National Convention. Stone and Kovic offer us
the classic story of a human spirit that gathers up
life’s broken pieces and overcomes the odds.

Actor Tom Cruise is cast in the role of Ron
Kovic. He gives a magniﬁcent portrayal of a man
who feels betrayed by his family, his.friends, and
his country. Many critics have accused Cruise of
having limited acting abilities. “Bom on the Fou-
rth of July” forever destroys the “pretty-boy”
image created by ﬁlms like “Risky Business" and
“Cocktail". Cmise gives a performance that is
worthy of an Academy Award. The transforma-
tion from a young, patriotic teenager to a tired and
disillusioned veteran is utterly believable. I have
become a Tom Cruise fan.

Stone ﬁlms “Bom on the Fourth of July”‘s
ﬁrst scenes like a Norman Rockwell painting. We
are offered hazy, sun-dappled memories of life
when young boys played “war” in the woods,
love was a stolen kiss behind the schoolyard wall,
and fourth of July parades ﬁlled a tiny town’s
main street. Young Ronnie Kovic is more con-
cemed with playing softball and seeing the sol-

 

Born on the Fourth of July
is not a film you will want
to see more than once. Yet
smmmmsammbsw»
posed to make us uncom-
fortable. This one has a
message that many of its
contemporary movies can’t
wkn

Liers march than the affections of his grade-school
sweetheart. But youth blinds Ronnie to the fact
that the proud veterans who march in the fourth of
July parade left their arms and legs on foreign
battleﬁelds; they are battle—hardened warriors who
now ﬂinch at the sound of ﬁrecrackers. Here we
sense Stone’s adept foreshadowing.

Young Kovic is raised in a stem Catholic
household where his mother, (played with con-
siderable force by actress Caroline Kava) who
urges him to do his best because “that's all that
God cares about.” III the eyes of eighteen-year-
old Kovic, the best is becoming a United States
Marine and ﬁghting the evils of communism.
During a high school assembly Kovic and his
friends sit transﬁxed as a Marine recruiting ofﬁcer
(played by Tom Berringer in a cameo role) stands
before the young men and ﬁlls them with tales of
the glory of ﬁghting, and dying, for one’s country.
Kovic’s simplistic ideals of America are stirred by
this vision of ultimate patriotism and sacriﬁce.

But Kovic’s ideals are put to the test on the
battle ﬁeld when he realizes that not only the
“enemy” soldiers are dying from "the hail of
american bullets, but innocent women and
children. Kovic’s struggles become, not only the
surviving the ﬁerce ﬁre—ﬁghts, but also to hold
onto those proud ideals of arnerican glory and
democratic freedom that rang in his ears. He
seems to be losing the battle.

I think that Oliver Stone is most adept at
ﬁlming realistic battle scenes. Instead of rosy-
checked arnerican boys raising old glory in the
breeze, his scenes are gritty and devoid of color;
you can almost taste the dust of the dead land.
During the battle scenes his camera angles induce
a feeling of claustrophobia and confusion--the
audience is as surprised as the soldier when bullets
rain from the sky and leave broken bodies in their
wake. You want to leave the movie theater and
escape the tension, but Stone manages to pin you
to your seat.

We think Kovic’s trials are over, and retribu-
tion is paid for his sins, when an enemy bullet
severs his spine and paralyzes him from the chest

Didn’t win the Bahamas trip?

DO IT
Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

down. But Kovic’s hell is just beginning: Kovic
must survive a rat-infested veterans hospital, an
America that now mocks his patriotism, and a
family who carmot understand his rage.

The most powerful scenes in the movie occur
when Kovic returns home to his family. Cruise’s
performance is agonizing when he weeps in his
father's arms and asks “what woman is ever
going to love me, Dad?” His father, played by
actor Raymond J. Barry, is too overcome with
emotion to respond. The handsome young man
who fought to defend his country is dead; in his
place is a tormented, crippled veteran who simply
wants to “be whole again."

I must be careful and not create the illusion
that the ﬁlm is faultless. Many of the scenes are
disjointed and interrupt the smooth flow of the
story. And the movie loses its intensity when
Kovic journeys down to Mexico and joins a group
of veterans who are hiding their pain under a
cloud of drugs and prostitutes. William Dafoe,
another veteran of Stone’s ﬁlms, plays the drunk-
en “Charley from Chicago,” the leader of these
men. What is the purpose of this journey?
Furthermore, other characters, like Kovic’s high
school sweetheart, simply drop out of the plot.
Perhaps Stone failed to develop these characters
because he wanted to focus on Kovic’s misery.

The ﬁlm's running time, well over two hours,
is a tad long compared to other productions.
However any faults in either the screenplay or the
direction are overpowered by Cruise’s perfor-
mance. He IS Ron Kovic, and his ‘struggles to
“become a man again” will leave you mes-
merized.

“Bom on the Fourth of July” is not a ﬁlm
you will want to see more than once. I came out
of the theater with the sensation that Oliver Stone
and Tom Cmise drug the viewer to hell and back
along with Ron Kovic. Yet sometimes a ﬁlm is
suppose to make us uncomfortable, and “Bom on
the Fourth of July” has a message that many of
its contemporary movies can’t offer. Despite its
ﬂaws, and because of Cruise's performance, I will
rate “Bom on the Fourth of July" a solid “A.”

“Born on the Fourth of July” will arrive at
the State Theater next week. It is rated “R” for
language and graphic violence.

A Postscript: My review of “sex, lies, and
videotape” generated a good deal of controversy;
I think that a letter is appearing in the Phi this
week from a W & L grad who didn't agree with
my opinions. I enjoy the feedback from my
reviews, but want to point out that I am offering
only my opinions, not facts carved into House
mountain. I certainly miss the mark at times, (my
review of “Uncle Buck” for example) and I en-
courage Phi readers to go see a popular ﬁlm even
if they don't agree with my review. But I still
don't understand “sex, lies, and videotape”...

WEEKLY CALENDAR’

7 - 10 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
8 p.m.

8:30 p.m.

10 a.m.
1:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

 

RED CROSS CPR COURSE: Final class. Warner
Center.

RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: Brothers Karamazov.
Room 203, Reid Hall.

SAB BINGO: Student Activities Pavilion.

FILM SOCIETY: VI’/ngs of Desire (West
Germany/France, 1988). Classroom "A,"
Lewis Ha||.Pub|ic invited.

4TH ANNUAL LIP SYNC CONTEST:

Multiple Sclerosis Benefit. GHQ. Public
invited. _

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: SWIMMING (M&W):
Shepherd College.

WRESTLING: W&L Invitational. Warner Center.

OPERA BROADCAST: Porgy and Bess
(Gershwin). WLUR-FM (91.5).

FILM SOCIETY: I/Wngs of Desire (West
Germany/France, 1988). Classroom "A,"Lewis
Hall. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: SWIMMING (M&W):
Gettysburg; BASKETBALL: Lynchburg

College; INDOOR TRACK: Lynchburg
Invitational. ‘

 

7 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

CD&P: Test Interpretation. Room 114, University
Center.

LECTURE: "Madness in the Bible," Gershon
Winkler, rabbi. Room 327, Commerce School
Public invited.

CD&P PRESENTATION: "The U.S. Marine PLC
Law Program," Capt. Mike Osborn, USMC.
Room 109, University Center. .

GALLERY RECEPTION/LECTURE: George
McNeil, artist. duPont Hall. Public invited.

CONTACT LECTURE: "Government Intervention
in the US. Economy,” Walter Williams,
economist, John M. Olin Distinguished
Professor of Economics, George Mason
University. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL:
Guilford College.

 

4 p.m.

4:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

CD&P: Job Search: Internships/Summer. Room
109, University Center.

GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A reading
by Rita Dove, poet. Northen Auditorium,
University Library. Reception to follow. Public
invited.

LIVE AT THE GHQ: "Windfall."

Q

1

gr

“ ‘I..§“

M
93
ﬁrm

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

Kevin M. Nash, Washington and Lee Senior, lnterfraternity Council President

”MY ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIP
IS PAYING OH‘ TWICE.”

"My three—year Army ROTC scholarship is pay-
ing for most of my W&L education. It is worth over
$10,000 per year. But it is paying off even more with
leadership experience and officer credentials im-
pressive to future employers. "

Kevin Nash is one of many W&L students who
have won Army RO__TC scholarships. You can too!

ARMY Bore

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

Apply Now. Contact Captain Ramos
At The Army ROTC Building, 463-8485/8480

