O

   

0' I I I

, So this is tear night
A freshman gets the royal treatment Friday night,
complete with champagne, at the Phi Kappa Psi

VOLUME 89, NO. 4

 

Fraternity House. Many fraternities celebrated last
weekend with similar activities. photo by Baber.

%EC cuts budget Committee,

? By Laura Rutherford

4

Staff Reporter _

4 Despite problems paying debts

i

from the 1888-89 school year, the
Executive Committee has made ﬁnal
,. this year’s budget.

Some organizations had their

‘budgets frozen, and others face cuts
, due to the money constraints.

The Student Bar Association, a

V‘ campus organization with one of the
,, largest budgets, received the same

O

a

4 going

1

amount last year.
president of the
Association said,

some belt

as John Falk,

Student Bar
“There may be
tightening, but that's
to be true of every
organization.” The SBA received

the $35,000 requested. This amount

4 was “pared down because of budget

cuts from the $77,000 in requests

‘we received from organizations,”

0

6

said Falk.

One of the campus organizations
that was denied a considerable sum
was the Minority Students’
Association. Of the $6,400 asked
for, the MSA received only $2,000.
James Rambeau, president of the
MSA, said, “the primary focus of

 ., I  3

n stom’ wake

our budget is on speakers. We had
planned on two speakers that would
cost $4,000.” Despite -the but the
organization should still be able to
put on much of its originally
planned activities by ﬁnding other
organizations to cosponsor speakers,
he said.

Not all campus organizations
rely completely on money from the
EC. The Caybc, for example, asks
for money from parents and alumni
to meet production costs.

“The Calyx, Journal of Science
and The Ring-tum Phi are all part of
the Publications Board. This is
where money goes when we make a
profit and, when debt is incurred,
the money comes out of that
account," said Calyx editor Suzanne
Snead.

The price of production of the
yearbook has risen $1,000 ‘since last
year, _ and photography developing
costs will be more as well, Snead
said. But The Calyx received
$15,000, the same amount as last

year. “We'll have to operate on a
tighter budget and cut some
comers, ” said Steven Wight, the

yearbook’s budget director.

. W&L’s

EC reps,
appointed

By Melinda Conkllng
Staff Reporter

Members of the 1989 Fancy
Dress Committee and student
representatives to the faculty
Executive Committee were named at
Monday's student EC meeting.

“The EC appointed whom they
thought would do the best job,
given the candidates’ past
experience,” said EC President
Willard Dumas, although he said

‘past experience’ ’ does not
necessarily mean experience on the
SAB or experience at W&L. The
Fancy Dress chairman is junior
Richard Spence, the vice chair is
junior Alex Hitz, and the auditor is
junior Terrence Fowler. The Law
School publicity director for the
SAB is third—year law "student
Martika Parson.

. Other appointed committee
fiiembers were Kara Cunningham to
the Faculty Executive Committee,
Tom Reems and Chris Smith to
Courses and Degrees, and John
Thorson and John Neslage to
Freshman Admissions. The EC is
still accepting applications to the

University Athletics, Student
Financial Aid, Library, and
Registration and Class Schedules

committees.
In other business, the EC heard

' 11 report from the Student Financial

Relations Committee, formerly the
Cold Check Committee. Junior
James Rambeau reported that he
visited Harris Teeter and WalMart
to tell employees there about
cheek-cashing policy.
Ramlseau said he will return to
those stores and visit other new
busirtesses in Lexington to tell them
about the Cold Check Committee so
W&L students will not be asked to

v produce identification when cashing

checks.
Also discussed Monday was the

‘ problem of student-run organizations
, going

 President
 that 65 percent
organizations have deficits.

Vice
reported
of student run
“The
responsible for paying

over-budget. EC
Jon Sheinberg

school is

it :. debts, even if the purchase was not

"Hurricane Hugo's impact was felt on this campus as two trees were
4 blown down. This one. in front of the Morris House, and the other
behing Lee Chapel, near Jefferson Street. photo by Chris Leiphart.

....-.,..!,..pw...-....... .........».,..-.....»,e... in“

A

0

approved, said junior Rep. John
Fialcowitz

Fialcowitz will meet‘ with
W&L’s assistant treasurer, John

Cuny, and Sheinberg to discuss an
alterrtative ﬁnancial policy for.
student—run organizations. Dumas
said this might make the job of
running organizations a lot easier
and stop the deficit problem.

LEX|NGTON.V|RGlNlA

By Chuck Broll
Staff Reporter

Ten Washington and Lee stu-
dents needed emergency care at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital this
weekend due to a1cohol—related inju-
ries, nearly equalling the total of
injuries from the two previous
weekends, according to Washington
and Lee Health Services records.

All of the students were treated
for head and facial injuries, includ-
ing lacerations, black eyes, broken
teeth and a possible broken nose.
All the students were released short-
ly after treatment.

By Brian Root
Senior Copy Editor

Although the formal phase of
fraternity Rush ended last Saturday,
W&L men who have itot pledged
can participate in the more informal
deferred rush period, said
Interfratemity Council President
Kevin Nash at the IFC meeting
Tuesday night. '

Deferred rush begins
immediately following the end of
fomtal rush, and any W&L male
who is not currently a member of a
house is eligible to participate.

There are no specific events
sponsored by either the IFC of the
university for the deferred rush
period.

Nash said no rushees cart accept

The number of injuries is twice
as many as occured over the school
year’s first weekend, .vlten there
were five alcohol-related injures,
and nearly twice as many from last
weekend, when six were treated and
released from Stonewall Jackson.

Meanwhile, Lexington police re-
ported only five violations over the
past weekend, with no arrests.
Three tickets were handed out for
minors in possession of alcohol, one
for a noise violation, and one for a
littering violation.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard once again stated he was
“very pleased" with the conduct of

bids offered during deferred rush

until after Homecoming weekend,_

.two weeks from now.

No houses complained about the
new structure for rush. This year,
for the first time, the lists for Rush
Dates were compiled by computer.

“If anyone has any complaints,
please let us know about them,"
Nash said. “We’re always looking
to improve the Rush structure."

David Allen, speaking for the
IFC’s recycling rogram, asked the
houses to contribute empty beer
cans to be taked to the Rockbridge
Recycling Center.

“Recycling these cans is the
only thing that the center makes any
money from,” Allen said. “With all
the cans you go through, giving
them to the center would help them

 

September 28, 1989

1

Ten tear to hospital

W&L students.

“If we could continue this rela-
tionship, it would be great,” said
Beard.

Beard, who two weeks ago was
concerned about street congestion,
stated that the weekend's cool wea-
ther reduced street traffic, thus mak-
ing their job easier.

Destruction and misconduct in
the freshman dorms were “typical”
for tear weekend, according to
Dorm Counselor Mary Alice Mc-
Morrow. She reported that there
were only a few “isolated inci-
dents,” which she blamed on the
excitement of tear weekend parties.

Rush for un—p|edged

out a lot.”

Allen said the cans would be
collected every Monday, and asked
the houses to bag the cans and label
them, to make collection easier:

In other business, Nash asked
the houses to rum in a list of the

names of each house’s newly-
acquired pledges.
In addition, each house must

turn in a detailed accounting of how
much money was spent during rush.

IFC Vice President Hunt
Neidringhaus reminded‘ the
fraternities of the regulation

restricting each house to only four
parties in the house per month.

“Since it was Rush, every house
used up all four allowed parties in
the past couple weeks,"
Neidringhaus said.

Beta Theta Pl

0 " Chi Psi

Delta Tau Delta
Kappa Alpha
Kappa Sigma
Lambda Chi Alpha
Phi Delta Theta
Phi Gamma Delta
Phi Kappa Psi

Phi Kappa Sigma
Pi Kappa Alpha

Pi Kappa Phi
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Sigma Chi

Sigma Nu

Sigma Phi Epsilon

These numbers reflect unofficial figures

 

RUSH ‘89: The tally

 

        

     

‘ 'v‘:'¢‘¢'u'a'

  

 

10

l l

15 20 25

 

By Lee Fleming
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee's fraternity
rush was relatively uneventful and
“OK overall,” Interfratemity Coun-
cil President Kevin Nash said Tues-
day night.

Speaking after the first post-
Rush IFC meeting, Nash said there
were successes and failures in
W&L’s 1989 Rush. ,

“It really depends on which way
you look at it,” he said. “In terms
of the fraternities‘ interaction with
the community and the police, it‘
went very well. There were fewer
visits by the police, and noise viola-
tions were down. There were also
fewer students admitted to the hos-

Nash sees pluses,

pital.”

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard agreed, according to Nash,
who said the chief plans to attend
an IFC meeting soon to congratulate
the fraternities on a job well done.

Nash also said that W&L
President John Wilson plans to at-
tend an IFC meeting, possibly on
Oct. 10.

On the negative side, Nash said
that the IFC is still concerned about
some students “suiciding” at one
fraternity house and not receiving a
bid at that house. “Suiciding” is
rush jargon for attending only one
house’s rush functions at the risk of
not receiving a bid.

“We’re still trying to prevent
rushees from doing that. It's really

minuses

disappointing,” said Nash.

Nash estimated that 10-15 rush-
ees were “caught” suiciding.

In general, however, Nash said,
“Most feedback about the process
has been good.”

The most positive aspect of this
year’s Rush was the wider variety
of houses being considered by fresh-

_men, Nash said.

“I thought it was positive that
this year’s freshmen didn't narrow
the houses into a mold of North and
South," Nash said. “Many rushed
at a variety. of houses instead of
going with the stereotypes."

Assistant Dean of Students
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said
Tuesday he was reserving comment
“until all the figures are in."

Officer Smith gets busted

By Courtney Payne
Staff Reporter

The dismissal of Lexington Po-
lice Officer Fred Smith was the top-
ic of remarks made by a concerned
group of citizens at last 'I‘hursday’s
city council meeting.

Huey Johnson, a spokesman for
the citizens, asked the council to
explain the cause for the “quiet and
rushed” Sept. 8 dismissal. Johnson
also asked the council if a formal
hearing had occurred and if the pro-
per procedures had been followed in
the case.

Mayor H.E. “Buddy“ Derrick
said that out of consideration for the
individual concerned, “intemal prob-
lems” involving city employees
were best handled “outside of the

press.” He told the group that
Smith, represented by counsel, was

. following the established grievance

procedure for city employees.

“I have assured myself that the
proper procedures are being fol-
lowed by the city,” Derrick said.

The mayor said the proceedings
will not be public because they in-
volvc it confidential personnel mat-
tcr, although he said Smith is free
at any time to make statements re-
garding the case.

Smith can take the matter to the
city manager or to an arbitration
pmtel of his fellow officers, Derrick
said. According to City Manager
Joseph King, if he wins the case,
Smith will retain his job with no
punitive measures.

Smith filed his

appeal on

T tiestluy. As an option, Smith chose
to go before a three-man committee
of his peers to plead his case. The
committee has not yet been chosen.
Smith said his dismissal was not
job related and occured while he
was off duty, and at another local.

Councilman A.C. “Sonny" Jordan
said he was displeased by the “se-
crecy” of the proceedings and the
fact that he was not notified of
Smith's dismissal.

_‘‘I feel stupid when someone asks
me about something in my city and
I don't know about it,” he said.

Smith has been on the police
force since 1982 and is a member
of the Buena Vista school board.
His dismissal came as a result of a
dispute that took place while he was
off-duty in another locality.

 

 
 

  OPINION

 

New priorities
in Hugo’s wake

Sherman bypassed Charleston, South Carolina.

Hurricane Hugo didn’t.

The storm has left the headlines and nightly newscasts,
but the destruction it caused, like that visited upon the
South by Union forces in the Civil War, will not soon be
forgotten.

The Associated Press has reported damage estimates in
excess of $3 billion, but a dollar figure is difficult to
reach, difficult to grasp and cannot possibly take into
account the massive problems faced by those whose
homes are — or perhaps were — in Hugo's path.

Most Washington and Lee students saw only a glimpse
of the storm’s fury, in the form of the relatively minor
storm that moved through Lexington Friday. We saw the
destruction of Hugo only indirectly, through newspaper
pictures and stories and television reports.

But that is not true for all of us. For some, the effects
of the hurricane were far too immediate. Senior Mary
Hipp returned home to ﬁnd that, except for some ﬂoor
boards, every piece of the apartment behind her Pawley’s
Island home was gone. And freshman Alison Schwab of
Summerville said a tree crashed through the roof over her
family's garage, bringing heavy rains with it.

Freshman Ben Weinstein left Saturday to return to his
home near Myrtle Beach, fearing the worst. What he
found was water damage to his basement, while some of
his neighbors lost their homes entirely.

Sophomore Chisolm Coleman, a Charleston native, said
his parents and home escaped from Hugo undamaged. But
even the lucky ones faced a seemingly insurmountable list
of challenges. Some could not return home for days, kept
away because bridges no longer existed, or because fallen
power lines did. The storm’s victims waited days — many
‘_ will wait weeks —- for an end to curfews, power outages,
. and food, gasoline and water shortages. They have lived
- in fear of, and many have witnessed, looting, riots, price
‘ gouging and fights. They must remove the remains of
‘’ trees that had stood for decades and clean up all the
‘ other evidence of Hugo's march through the South.

Manv here in Lexington were also Hugo’s victims.
Hipp, Weinstein, Coleman, Schwab and other W&L
students were forced to sit in fear, helplessly hoping the

. storm would spare relatives and friends, waiting, waiting,
waiting for word while phone lines were swamped by
* callers, wind and water. I
,3’ It is so easy to see hurricane damage on television and
'. yet fail to grasp the magnitude of the devastation. Figures
' in the newspaper, such as 960,000 people without
-' electricity, 52 deaths and $3 billion in damage, mean
: almost nothing, perhaps because such reports are so
frequent. But this time, the consequences were more
. immediate. This time, friends’ lives and homes were
— behind those numbers.
It is in such times when W&L is called upon to live
. up to its claim of being a “community.” And, it‘ is in
i such times when we reorder our priorities, when we
' realize what is truly important, when the one thing many
‘I of us had been living for and focusing on for weeks —
. fraternity Rush — is seen in the proper light. V
On this week’s front page, we report “The Snag.” It
‘is ironic and perhaps hypocritical that we question the
{amount of time, money and sweat that goes into Rush
and yet give it front-page treatment. But our news
judgement is based to a large extent on what you, our
'readers, want to know. Fraternity men are intensely
interested in the size of their pledge classes, particularly
“how they did” in comparison to other fraternities. And
so we answer that question. But, at the same time, we
‘are, in a way, thankful for the reminder that Hugo
jprovided us of what is really important.

sVVhoops!

. We goofed. Last week’s article by Jon Sbar was out
.- of order. We put column two where column three was
:supposed to go, and column two where we meant to put
column three. Our apologies to Sbar, and to our readers.

I

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi

 THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
’ Founded September 18, 1897

EEditors .............................................................. ..Greg Euston, Stacy Morrison
;Associate Editors ............ .. ....Jarnes Lake, Genienne Mongno

  
 
 
  
  

 
  

   
 

.Assignment Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor.... ......................... .. ....Jeff Woodland
‘Entertainment Editor .......................................... .. ....Parnela Kelley
Sports Editor ......................................... .. ..........Jay Plotkin
_, Senior Copy Editor ........................................................................ ..Brian Root
;-Business Manager ............................................................. ..Anne Dysart
‘‘ Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jason Kelly
.....Alan Litvak

E Circulation Manager ................................................................ ..

_ The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
;school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
;Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but also
;from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and Lee
;Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager, but
; The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in The Ring-tum Phi office,
;Room 208 of the University Center, by noon Tuesday to appear in that
;week‘s edition. The Ring-tum Phi observes current court definitions of
flibel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

1

The Ring-tum Phi, September 28, .1989

IN he-(~35 ‘t'oTem- 
Bu&é’4 ATHVS Skit),

“J:+ looks wet-*3,

AND if is

II
we‘: re),

Noﬂliki weir) laerem? ’I\< BK

Shedding light on being black

MY VIEW
By Joei Llyne Dyes

I am writing this article in an attempt to shed
some light on a very complicated issue. It seems
last week's Ring-tum Phi ran several articles and
letters which dealt specifically with racism, and
all of them, in my opinion, missed the bull's eye
of the target.

Although I am black, I do not pretend to
know how all people of our race feel and think,
as many other blacks (and whites) have the au-
dacity to do. In fact, I try to avoid discussing
racism because doing so seems to alienate my
caucasian friends and peers and makes me more
self-conscious. I believe it reminds both my
friends and I that, although we do care for each
other, we are different and can never really iden-
tify with one another.

It wasn't until I moved temporarily from Illi-
nois to Mississippi several years ago that I real-
ized just how different I was. In Houston, Miss.,
the small town to which I moved, it seemed
blacks and whites were as far apart as the North
and South Poles, in spite of the fact that one
could find the other just down the road.

Whilel was growing up in Illinois, .I lived in
a predominantly white neighborhood and was one
of six blacks in an elementary school of about
600 students. I truly felt I belonged. Even though
children do notice differences between themselves
and others, they do not seem to classify the vari-
ances as “good" or_ “bad" —— they simply accept
the fact that so-and-so is different. Racism must
be taught to children.

Unforttmately, I carried my naivete with me
into adolescence and into Houston and because of
it, I was abused. It was not the white children
who harassed - I knew they called me “nigger"
behind my back, and even to my face. But that
didn't bother me too much. You see, I knew a
few delicately selected expressions of my own,
most of which consisted of five to twenty-five
letters.

Ironically, the most hostile abuse came from
the blacks. That's when I truly realized we
weren't all alike. In opinions of other students, I
was all wrong. I didn't talk right — I talked

white. l didn't act right — I acted white. I even
liked white people.

“Girl, don't you know, they'll never think of
you as an equal," they told me. “Just ‘cause you
talk white and act white and hang around white
folks, that doesn't mean you're gonna be white.
Girl, need one of your vanilla friends, need them
for anything and see if they'll be there," they
said. “You'll see, one day your booty will be up
a tree, and all your buddies will just walk by,
leaving you hangin'. Then maybe you'll get your
butt back over on the side you belong!”

Well, much to their dismay, whenever my
booty was up a tree, my friends did help me. If
I needed a ride or missed a class and had to copy
notes or whatever, they would help me just as I
would help them. I always thought those kids
who called me naive were really dense, and I told
them so. Now I wish I could tell them I finally
understand why they felt the way they did.

We, black people, have heard all our lives that
white is right. I never heard such an outrageous
statement from my parents. My father, a former
black history teacher, would die before he'd say
such a thing. But, through society, we are fed a
negative self-irnage. We are constantly told that
whites are elite, and in order to rise to a re-
spected position in society, we should emulate
them. V

The media plays a key role in all this. Today,
the number of programs offered on television
featuring blacksiin estimable roles may be counted
on one's hand. I think blacks watch as much
television as whites, if not more. Why should they
not be able to see positive role models other than
Bill Cosby? In advertisements, beautiful black
models do not appear nearly as much as they
should. It's as if companies think the only prod-
ucts I purchase are Big Macs and Afro Sheen.
As I have said again and again, my money is
green just as anyone else's, and I have sense
enough to move to another product when I'm not
satisfied.

I am not comforted by the advantages we, as
children of those who marched and fought in the
Civil Rights Movement, now beneﬁt from. It
only saddens me when I think 30 years from now
my children will still have to wade through the
same manure I must trample through today. It's
been about 30 years since the Movement and the

Lastedﬂonal
misses point

I really enjoyed the editorial you wrote, but
(there is always a but) I drink you miss the
point by a few thousand yards, as well as giv-
ing misleading information.

First of all it would oe great if we lived in
a world without labels, but since the dawn of
man labels have been used for identiﬁcation.
Better yet, it would be great if we could erase
the stereotypes associated with labels. On s=..;h
stereotype that should be eliminated is minor-
ity=black.

The Dean of Minority and International
Affairs deals with all matters concerning Mi-
nority and International students, which in-
cludes everything except white Anglo-Saxon
males. The Dean is not just a Black Dean,
even though she is black, but a Dean for all
minorities. You said that “the university's
attempts may only be augmenting any prob-
lems," but its success shows that all minoriy
students have been integrating better these last
four years than any previous years.

You said “that the university continues to
segregate students, in spirit [whatever in spirit
means], at least, far beyond any social or cul-
tural necessity" through:

1. Minority recruitment — Would you as a
non—minority student ever think about going to
Howard University, Rikko University, Moscow
State University, or any other pre-dominantly
minority school without being approached by a
recruiter or someone who could raise your
interests about the school?

2. Minority counseling — Could you live
in one of these environments with no support
network that could identify with any concerns
or problems that might arise?

3. Minority Orientation — Would you like

same prejudice that loomed over my mother's
head, still hovers over mine.

A fellow student commented that whenever a
black person is involved in a crime, you'll see the
headline screaming across the front page. When a
black person does something good, it tends to be
covered up, swept over or not mentioned at all.

There's so much about the black man's past
that we should teach ourselves — aside from the
Civil Rights Movement, black art and literature —
to wipe out the senseless racism, to armihilate the
black man's hatred of himself. Blacks did so
many wonderful, extraordinary things ir1 history,
which have contributed to society as a whole, not
just the black race, that have been ignored in
American classrooms. Some will argue that
blacks are a minority, as are Hispanics and East
Asians, and the school systems do not have time
to dwell on anything but our country's history and
civics. However, I'll retort that the history of our
country, as it is being taught, both quietly and
blatantly reinforces negative myths about our race,
and no one is taking the necessary pains to dispel
those myths.

I'm a junior this year, double majoring in
English and journalism. I work as hard as any-
body else and do the same work. I believe I real-
ly got a taste of my future this summer when I
interned at the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal
in Tupelo. I begged for the opportunity to write
stories. I had just completed an advanced report-
ing class that spring. I really believed I was
ready to write copy. They wouldn't give me a
story. “Become familiar with the other reporters.
Doodle on the computers. Relax," they said. I
was cool. I tltought,okay, as long as you pay
me, everytl1ing’s fine. But I'm going to do my
story. And I did. I went out and got it. My
first story made the front page. They were aston-
ished. You can write, they said.

You can't hear, I said. I told you I could.

I try not to assume things. You and I both
know that this country is not lacking for bigots. It
does help to try to remain open-minded, don't
you think? I believe I was open-minded about
why the editors hesitated to let me write a story.
In the back of my mind, I know because I'm
black, many people will see my color as a strike
against me. Many, who have decided to believe

Cl Please see DYES page 3

LETTERS

to be thrown in with the students from the
above schools without any kind of opportunity
to learn about the different language, cultures,
etc.? By the way, our Pre-orientation program
consists of a cross section of the incoming
students: 1/3 white, l/3 international, 1/3 black.
It is obvious that we are experiencing changes
which are, we hope, for the better.

A diverse student population is part of this
change. Each year we bring together approxi-
mately thirty six entering students who form a
culturally diverse group. This group, in the
past, has been a great help in encouraging an
appreciation of cultural diversity among the
entire student body.

There are many factors to consider when
we talk about diversity — such things as one's
gender, ethnicity, international status, high
school size, and residential area or region of
the United States come to mind immediately.
Students are selected for any one or more of
these reasons.

4. Minority job opportunities — Granted
affirmative action has many problems Mr.
Patterson, what organization doesn't, but until
anyone of any race or gender, with the capabil-
ity, can compete for a job knowing that the
only thing that may bar their way is not hav-
ing the best qualiﬁcations, there needs to be
something to protect people from job discrimi-
nation.

5. Minority newsletter — I hope you mean
Una Vox, “Un_a Vox translates into English as
‘one voice’ and is as close as Latin would
allow us to come to ‘unity,’ the concept that
motivated the development of this newsletter,"
says Everett E. Hamilton, Jr., the newsletter's
fust editor. “It is very easy, even on a carn-
pus as small as [W&L], for news and activities
that reflect cultural and ethnic diversity to be
overlooked. Una Vox has committed its pages
to accentuating the positive aspects of universi-
ty life and the contributions of its diverse pop-
ulation in promoting cultural understanding and
harmony."

Your final note of “wisdom” was to be
“aware.” This tantalizing tidbit of rational

thinking was the pinnacle_of your proverbial’
piece, but I thinketh that thou doeth need to

practice what you preach and research (be
aware”) before you speak.

Jimm E. Cobb, '89

Activities Coordinator for Minority and Interna-
tional Affairs

Atthe Pit,  
please tip

This letter is addressed to the patrons of the
GHQ (alias the Pit). The Pit is a restaurant.
Many of the people who work there are waiters
and waitresses. In a restaurant, when the service
is adequate, one generally leaves a tip. It is
considered rude not to do so. Because of social
convention, waiters and waitreses are paid less
than most other restaurant workers. On behalf
of the waiters and waitresses of the Pit I'd like,
to thank those of you who do tip. The profes-

sors and law students are especially conscien-.

tious. Unless you’ve waited tables, you have no‘
idea how frustrating it is to wait on people, get
them their food in record time, take care of all
their special requests - "Another drink? Sure,
no problem!" - only to find nothing on the table
but a mess. It’s easy to forget once in a while.
It's a casual place and we've all got a lot on
our minds, but those of you who consistently
don't tip are just plain rude. We work hard to
get you your food quickly, we bus our own
tables, and we clean the place after closing. A
little consideration would be appreciated and
even (or is this asking too" much?) a little pa-
tience when we're packed or understaffed. Once
again I’d like to thank those of you who do tip.
Whether in cash or points — it's much appreci-
ated.

Sincerely ,
Irritated Pit-workers

i

V

7

Q

4

t

0
ii
I

0

 

  

 
 

 

save the

MY VIEW
By D. Ross Patterson

“Save your Confederate money
boys, the South is gonna rise again,"
proclaims one bumper sticker, while
another says, “American by birth,
Southern by the Grace of God." A
third says, “Keep the South
beautiful, put a Yankee on a bus.”
Bumper stickers are not merely one
of the myriad of products peddled by
Stuck_ey’s and truck stops. Rather,
they are a reflection of public
opinion at a basic level.

The three bumper stickers referred
to above reflect the feeling of many
Southerners, a sense of pride
stemming from a feeling that the
South is somehow fundamentally
different from the rest of the United
States; that there is a quality which
sets it apart. Despite the War
Between The States, the wanton

destruction reeked by General
Sherman's infamous. “March to the
Sea,” and the devastating

“Reconstruction" which followed the
War, the unique traditions, ideals,
and spirit of the Old South remain -
Southem heritage has survived.
However, the preservation of
Southern traditions has been decried
by those who, mistakenly, believe
that a reverence and respect for
Southern heritage is an endorsement
of slavery. Those persons who take
exception to the preservation of
Southem traditions apparently believe
that slavery and the Old South are

 

intertwined, inseparable institutions.
However, this is not the case. It is
possible to revere one while
abhorring the other.

This confusion is not limited to
Northemers who do not understand
the unique affection with which
Southemers regard the Old South. It
is becoming all too evident among
Southemers as well. There are many
examples of this new trend towards
de-Southemization. During the 1987

tradition

Democratic National‘ Convention, the
Mayor of Atlanta said, “We want to
be an American city first and a
Southem city second." For the first
time in recent years, The Citadel's
regimental and pipe bands did not
play Dixie at dress parade. Many
high schools have, because of court
orders, ceased displaying Confederate
flags at sporting events. There are
ongoing efforts to eliminate the
display of Confederate ﬂags over
state capitols. And, in an example
closer to home, there has been a
push in recent years to transform
Washington and Lee from a Southern
university with a national’ reputation
to a national university located in the
South. I find it" shocking that the
pride which was almost universal
among Southemers is so easily
eroded.

A great deal of the pressure
towards de-Southemization seems to
come from a desire in this “more
enlightened" age to distance
ourselves from the racism which is
so often associated with the
traditional South. No one but the
most ignorant bigot wishes for a
return to the days of racial
segregation. Instead, those who wish
to retain the unique attributes of the
South wish to preserve the heritage
of great men such as Robert Edward
Lee, and the values and traditions
they embodied.

America is too young a country
to have the appreciation of history
which members of older societies
develop. Consequently, America is
still developing its national character
and emphasizes a process of change
and forward motion rather than the
preservation of older values and
culture. However, the unique qualities
of the gentile Old South are well
worth preserving. The trend towards
de-Southemization reflects a
perception that the South is somehow
lacking and must change. This is a

perception we ought not have, and to "

which we should not respond. The
South shall rise again! Let us not
abandon it.

Peer counseling

available

By Ben Worth
Staff Reporter

Peer counseling, now beginning
its third year, offers students an alter-
native counseling resource.

Dr. James Worth, University
Counseling Psychologist, outlined the
structure of the_Peer Counseling pro-
gram. Begun in January of 1987, the
program offers an alternative to
professional counselors and friends by
training fellow students to be listeners
and problem-solvers.

Counselors are selected for the
program for their ability to relate to
other students, sense of fairness,
common sense and personal warmth,
and similar criteria.

At the beginning of the school
year, and throughout the year, peer
counselors participate in training
programs designed to sharpen listening
skills, problem recognition, problem
solving and referral skills.

Peer counselors can meet with
students in one of two ways - either
by a face-to-face counseling session,
made by calling the peer counselor at

for all

home, or by calling the peer counsel-
ing hotline.

Students calling the hotline will
find counselors who are prepared to
talk about drugs, alcohol, problem
pregnancies sexually transmitted dis-
eases and other problems.

Worth was quick to emphasize the
conﬁdential nature of the program.
All contacts with students are confi-
dential, including other students, other
peer counselors and the faculty and
staff.

Worth said he was excited about
getting the new year under way,
referring to the students in the pro-
gram as “super people,” and praising
their excellence by noting that all of
last years’ peer counselors who ap-
plied, received positions as dorm
counselors, or resident advisors.

The peer counselor hotline is open
Sunday through Thursday from 8:00
pm. to 11:00 p.m., and Friday and
Saturday from 9:00 p.m. to 12:00 p.m.
The phone number is 463-8999. A
list of peer counselors and their phone
numbers can be obtained from Dr.
Worth’s office in the University Cen-
ter.

The Ring-tum Phl, September 14, 1989

VIII.

5.;

"-Dru -
M11! 'II'7//I I/I/I.

\{//1mn\\\

"  i1'_“__‘_\,.-,_ ,   ., , 
///-”-‘°/

Sol-IENHEIZE N we A5155-Em;

Preserve the South, We

"a..

 

4.‘.

\%

 

 

\,

Ah... 9 .

_r:ru—v—-o-—
—-1

/ /

Freshman finds faults with Rush 

MY VIEW
By Richard Hill

Rush, 1989. It's plastered on tee-
shirts and posters all over campus.
It is a time of confusion. it is a time
-of hell.

I believe that some fundamental
changes need to be made to the Rush
system in order for it to function
properly. I went‘-through all of Rush
and eventually tore, but I must
concede that there are some serious
flaws in the system.

For starters, it should be possible
to go to all 16 fraternities if you
want to. Rush should be informal;
decentralized, I suppose. And let's
eliminate the twenty dollar rush fee.

The booklets that we are supplied, do
not, in my mind, constitute the
justification for charging such an
outrageous sum of money. Or, does
the IFC need extra funds in order to
police the fraternities?

Individuals should be given the
opportunity to visit any of the
fraternities that they want. At the
same time, Open Houses and casual
contact should spread out over two
or three weeks, as opposed to only
one. This allows everyone the chance
to meet all of the brothers in a large
house. Then. the fraternities would
make up a list of the people that
they would like to see back. Each
individual would then be given a list
of the fraternities that have asked
them back. Not until then would they
choose the six that they would like

to visit. Then the Rush Dates would
be scheduled and the rest would be
up to the individual fraternities.

The point is that, with very few
exceptions, there is a fraternity at
W&L for everyone. It should be
easier and more efficient for the
individuals to find which one that
may be.

The idea of my system, is to
have it so that Rush is done in a
way that the individual rushees have
more control over where they go and
when they go.

The major problem is the time. I
moved into W&L on a Saturday.
After a week of orientation (that
period were freshmen go from
confused to totally confused), Rush

started. A week later we were in the
middle of Rush Dates. Finally, lasi
weekend, we tore. I haven’t ever;
organized my room yet, nor have I
even began to get a handle on the
academic scene. Yet, I have been
briskly marched through a process
that has yielded the most important
decision that I will have to make as
a freshman. .It is the one decision
that is going to affect me for the
next four years. :

Unless Rush is restructured in,
such a way that more exposure to_
more houses is possible, and until’
there is more time, Rush is going tq
be" a large cold bowl of soggy mush;
And for that matter, it is just one_
large bowl, in what (for freshmen at_
least) is sure to be hundreds more.

't')'\‘rEs

from page 2

the myths, will not think I am as capable of com-‘
pleting an assignment as my caucasian counter-
parts. But, I know I cannot realize my dreams if
I allow that knowledge to become a burden.

I decided to believe I wasn't being allowed to
do a story because I was just a wet-behind-the-
ears college kid whom they felt didn't know all
she needed to know about writing copy. I main-
tained this presumption until the last week when a
member of the powers-that-be approached me and
said, “You know, Joei, when we hired you we

were just going to" let you sharpenpencils and‘

fetch coffee. Just look how your work has en-
hanced our paper.” He leaned close and said.
“You should be proud. You're an exception.
You're not like them." He nodded toward a back
room, referring to the blacks working the loading
docks and running the presses. I politely informed
him that their original plan would not have been
successful as I’ve never been inclined to perform
menial tasks. However, I did not inquire about
what I was supposedly an exception to — I knew
what he was talking about.

He meant, I believe, because of the color of
my skin, ‘I wasn't supposed to have sense enough
to construct a decent news story, and certainly not
good copy. Good heavens! Because I could de-
liver. Pllrhaps he wondered if I was really black
at all. Maybe he thought I was a caucasian in
disguise. (For a moment. I must confess, I was
tempted to reveal to him the other end of my
person and prove beyond a shadow of a doubt
that I really was black after all. But, I refrained.)

I learned a long time ago to stop letting insen-
sitive people's attitudes disrupt my life. Although
I no longer cry about racism, I’ve been unable to
reduce the level of anger I feel when narrow-
minded, egotistical people carelessly toss their
viewpoints ‘into my lap. I must speak out, or
explode. .-

In addressing a few issues presented in last
week's paper, I will first deal with Professor
Futch’s facetious apology. I’ve read the thing
about twenty times now, trying to make sense of
it's ‘latter half. Maybe some of you understand

exactly what he meant by, “In today's America
the public display of certain symbols and

emblems is completely out of the question. Every-
one must understand this." I had to keep asking
myself why he said that at all, as a simple apolo-
gy would have sufficed. It is my interpretation
that Professor Futch is saying what one could get
away with 20 years ago, one cannot get away
with now. The Negroes now have a voice. He
cannot pose with porch monkeys in today's soci-
ety_ and expectjthe "coloreds" to _sit idly by,
closed-mouthed, dumb like the statue on the
porch. His “apology” seemed only to express
remorse for having the privilege of calling the
Negroes "niggers" revoked.

By the way, I didn’t even know what a porch
monkey was. I had to ask my father, thus ex-
plaining to him the entire situation behind my
inquiry. Needless to say, he was not pleased. »

My grandmother only completed the sixth
grade, but she was one of the most intelligent
women I'll ever have known. She summed it up
best when she~said, “Child, I don't care how

much education a man has, he can be a lawyer, a

doctor or‘ the finest teacher, but if he doesn't
know how ‘to treat others, all his education really
doesn't do'~him.‘-a lick"of good.” I believe the
term she favored was “educated fool."

As for Mr. Patterson's letter about the trees
and shrubbery, in which he refers to Michigan
State University's affirmattive action policy, I must
say, I think both he and Ms. MacDoi:'ild ﬂew
over the “forest" in question. Mr. Patterson is
upset .tl1at ‘fdeserving non-minority students are
denied a place in the school of their choice"
because, he said, undeserving minorities are given
a boost. They are admitted because of their color.
It's a valid argument. And, to art extent, I cer-
tainly agree with him. Powever, Mr. Patterson
fails to take in to account thc..numbers of intelli-
gent minority students‘, forced .to, attend rim-down,
irmer-city schools that Ilie government knows are
not up to par. In many cases, these students are
certainly not exposed to the‘. things that upper-'
class suburban children are learning. Although the

minority parents pay taxes like every other parentﬁi
their children aren't necessarily treated the same.
It’s not a fair society, Mr. Patterson. That's the
whole problem. It's unfortunate that when we try}
to make things right, there will inevitably be?
holes in the blueprints. We must, however, keep?
Finally, the editors‘ "Opinion" in last week's;
newspaper is inaccurate. The pre-orientation of—§
fered every year is not for minority students spe-j
cifically. I talked with Dean McCloud about this,I
and she said the purpose of the pre-orientation is:
to bring together students from diverse back—I
grounds, geographical regions and social '
settings. She said the university brings these
students together hoping that they'll benefit fromi
their experience in that week and in some way’.
share it with the rest of the student body. This;
year, she said, the pre-orientation seemed to be?
divided into thirds: international, minority andi
caucasian students. When I read the editorial, I;
must admit I was confused, because my fellow‘.
junior, Sandy Dudley, sat next L) me during the’
pre-orientation my freshman year, and if the thing .
was really supposed to be for minorities only, 11
knew somebody messed up. ’

In closing, I would like to say I take full.‘
responsibility for these opinions. They're mine '.
alone. Like many others who've searched, I have I
no answer for racism. I do realize, however, be- I
fore society's situation can really improve, the 1
hatred must be removed from all of our hearts. 2

I am a black woman and proud of it.'I am not :
looking for a handout from anybody. I believe the 1
good Lord will see me through just like He will I
everyone else. I am here at Washington and Lee I
because'I belong. I graduated eighth in my class I
from a very respected, very competitive high 2
school in Illinois. I -was the first black to graduate i
in the top ten at that institution. I look forward to i
a bright future (post W&L) in spite of racism. I I
have so much to offer and have every intention of i
reaching my goals. I pity the racists who attempt I
to stand between me and my destiny.

    

By Merrill Watson

4-

c

Jack Pringle, ’90, Hobes, Va. -
,- “Given the deplorable state of
the current playing fields, I see

no alternative. It's been proven
that Wilson Field can't be prop-
erly maintained, and our football
and lacrosse teams (as well as
other sports) deserve at least a
consistent and reliable playing
surface.”

k .

Paula Podracky, ‘91, Euclid,
Ohio- “I think the money
should go into something more
useful, like better parking facili-
ties.”

 

TALKBACK

Trey Haydon, ’90, Counter
Point, Fl. — “If the adrrtinistra-
tion wants to show a sudden
concern for athletics at W&L
(Lord knows it's about time)
give the athletic department a
larger voice in the admissions
process. Then maybe we will
not lose so many athletes to oth-
er ODAC schools!”

of money.

TIES.

    

John McCallum, ’92, Atlanta,
Ga. — “No. I think it's a waste

Do you think W&L should spend money
to put Astroturt on Wilson Field?

Photos by Amanda Hughen

V. “r, -.-‘or.

*‘l'.‘9_l>60’:‘:'v‘»“.‘.

‘*3

Also, it causes a lot

of unnecessary, non-contact inju-

 

Prof. Edwin Craun, Prof. of
English — “It’s not our style."

 

Chrls Smythe, ’90, Lynchburg,
Va. — “No. Natural grass is
the best surface for all sports
that are played there. I do think
they should spend more money
on improvement and upkeep of
the present field."

« , ,
"..xaa~a«.M»’u\‘.m>~ .- .*.-‘.i.-.-\=.w~‘¢u«a«~“.rs.. we - o v .-- .. u. ax . I-‘c . as1‘uric‘:’.-‘vs?’-«’»~'-‘-7-'- -‘-' 'r“~’ ‘

 

"I
The Ring-tum Phl, September 28, 1989
,__,.____,_ __. . _.._.._..-., .. .- '
DC - LGENERAL NOTES i «
  Interns wanted — *
A
' A , All e a roved ' equipment will be provided
By Cathy Loplccolo Very useful f01’ 1115 I0 ‘each Th)’  mlzlolgppolnrgllulgeiilslrversllrlgi C0l_  through nnrohases made by the an
Staff Reporter Cllllgless class and lllell lake Sollle lege, Oxford University. For 0911118 C111b- 01-1T_ ﬁrs! me‘-’«1ih8 ,
Wa red, E in . . l)f  sludellls mi See. lf everyllllllg Degree candidates for June those who are interested, there The Career Development and will. feature a V1d€0i tape dis-

n ' n uslasllc Students Sal was me’ l blldges the gap 1990 h ve until 4'30 m on '11 be a meetin on Oct4 at Placement Office invites seniors cnbing the joy of casting as well 9
who wish to get first-hand between theory and practice.” ll .'  ' wl g ' l - for ool(_v:.ll.o inter- as ils com;-lbmjon to successful '
experience in the House or Senate Participants in the Washin ton Monday lo sllblllll lllell com" 3:30 P'lll' lll Bllllel 106' .Flee 9 slgn up ' m ll l ‘ Y ‘ll be ‘ed '

. . 3 _ 3 oleled do cc a pllcauons, Late Eumrall asses are now available views that will be conducted on ﬁshing. ou wi supns
during the spring term. Open to all Term Program are interns in offices i. . gr  be ii i W  t and Lee sun Seph 28 Och 4 and Ooh lo. how quickly you catch on! i
interested students. of U.S. senators or representatives, app lcllllolls wl asseisse {ha or as mg on Also seniors lahning lo allond
The Washington Term Program or they work in the White House, $25.llll°’ illel facully'ndA 50’ ‘E llellls‘ ilia 'Cl_lAl_LE§lGE liberal arts _ F
provides Washington and Lee according to Ingrid Schroeder. a l‘°g‘““‘,j ‘i‘‘‘’‘,i,‘§,_,°”,~ ‘‘ S‘-ll“, - career fair on Oct. 25 need to Hawk watching
students with the opportunity to senior who worked for a senator lllel Sc  lilil ln °l sellliol  nnn in iegisinnion by 430 Sept. P
work in congressional offices during last spring. Schroeder is. now f°l iillllllcif e n as ncolgliveng 29 Resumes are lo be Snbrnlned 0 Th d Oct 5 from ,
the sixlweek spring term Colmellyls research assistant’ She is rectsllll St’ ydlfu silllrlrfrlrlierreschool Washington and Lee sopho for each company listed on the l45 nlo 61153 aylni [ho hiking
15 ’ - ~ - - - oi ica ion ' : : . .,
I see the program as ll workmg wllh mm to Cooldmale lhls ned'ts lease check with the mores interested in a career in registration form, and $5.00 fee seolion of tho gming Club will l
complement to academic and year’s program. cl l ’ P . . . . . -

- .. - .. . . .. office to determine what is still public service at the federal, paid. rolm-n lo Hmnpback Rocks 10 5
theoretical work, ‘said Prof. . You have various responsibili- needed slate’ of local levels are invited See the nnnimn hawk migration
William J. Connelly, director of the ties, from writing press releases and ’ lo a l for a 1990 Ha S - . . W i d A
Washin ion Term Pm ra “ii.  ‘ ' ‘e 5 PP)’ _ “Y '  in its later stages. ear sur y

8 8 mi s C] Please see INTERNS P89  Truman Scholarship. Three stu- Shoosi bring along 3 swealel-i ’

dents 93-h be hmhlhaled f°r the . . , rain protection, water, and a
1990 competition. The scholar- Th6 W  L F11111 5°°1e‘Y5 an la Meal ai Baker loo 10
_ ' The campus directory is be- ship award covers eligible ex— ﬁrs‘ Pfesehfahoh Of the 1989'90 Trlilifisnorlalion nrovidodi i
0 e  I I I 0  ing prepared for publication. All penses up to $7,000 per year for season Wllll nll)6 1.38 nlnlanniiful ﬁg
local phone and address informa— the junior year, senior year, and D1151 (E118 311 . l . 11601 . . . r
tion ahould be given to the Reg- two years of graduate study. To by Charles Stumdge. This film  
- « " ‘ ed c r ' _ ' ' ‘ ' d ' f "
in   1““.:.“..“.;-““’%.f:’.’.?:.‘.‘3§i“So;‘if:.‘if.i..   -by “eds: ‘E °’   ‘"“f~‘ :25:   :.:i::“::’;* .3. 1
Starr Reporter ln 3 _ 1113 _ - der to be published in e i irec— -time sopiomore in a re io y I _ The Politics Fllmfesi will .
11113"/19WSv Whlch has always heel‘ tory. The same date applies to study that will permit admission tragic deterioration of a wealthy present The De nnn Ones (1958:
Washington and Lee's Career 0113 Of _lh§ i°ff1°e_5 1h°5l_T°°b:8h1Z°d all who wish to restrict publica— to a graduate program leading to family in 1930 8 England. Sh§W- Kniinni_)————-%——nn Wednesday and a
Development and Placement Office Te5P0h51hh111¢S« _W1" 383111 n C°h' I10ni0f the information ‘under the a career in public SCYVICG,‘ have ings will be on Friday and at— Tinnsdny ni 7:00 nm in Reid n
has broadly expanded its list of ser- dhcled Whh V3710“-5 ﬁrms ah 383” Family Educational  and at least a B average, stand in the urday at 8:00 piim. in Lewis Hall 203‘ Nnininnnni for 8 Academy
Vices in its ongoing effort to help ores throughout the year. _ Privacy Act (FERPA) rights. upper fourth of the class, and be classroom A. i Therer is fine Awards inninding Best Picture, r
students establish career objectives 55 aC3d¢1111° S‘i?_1i11dai1'd5 °°ihihhnli° d bds a U.S. citizen. Interested students charge for admission. his rm Ben Anion and Best Director, n
and initiate career goals, according 10i1'1S¢ 31 W&L» certify 531 n ‘: should see Dean Lewis John is in English. nnii iiiin is ii ..cinemaiiC_ iand_
to me on-ice.S direclon caliber of firms that wis no con ucf (Payne Hall 6) no later than Oct. I - nnnkn. This variant of ihe l;rls_ I
The office. which was estab- lhlervlews here ls ll nle e°lil)°llP 0t A Battle of the Bands will 5-  onerrs Dilemma shows the para- 9
h5h0<3 lhfee W315 380 “hder the lllal trend" Fllmsh sue fas d  be held 001- 20 31 the Pavllhoh _ _ doxical effect of intense personal
auspices of Dean Rick Henley, ima cam, Vyhlttill ave re use in for Alcohol Awareness Week Rock cllmblng in ink _ f in preferences upon polinca .
serves all four classes and students lhlfhahohs 1h 6 P339 “ii h°w (Ooh l5_20)_ Any student band i 3 1 1h8_ 5°Ch°h .0 5 i
in every major offered at the univer- hclhhg the 5°h9°l I0 131 em Come who wishes to erner should oon_ i i i i Outing Club iWlll make its "first -
sity. Services provided include ca- ahd h0ld1hle1'V1eW3 hem iaci Carol Damawood (464_ _ Basic rock climbing instruc— OVeiI'n1gili‘l[ trip ‘to ‘the Fall es ,
reer development workshops that The 1015 Of °°1hP1h5T5 has ex‘ 3653) trons will take place from 3 to 5 Foliage mountain bike race in g
can assist undergraduate students in Pahded 115 S0096 10 111C111d3 ‘W0 ’ p.m. on Tuesday on the rock Slaty Fork, W.Va. All skill lev- i P
their search for a major as well pre- [3 Please see CAREER page 6 R h  W311 i1111deT_ lhe fi(_’°lili31‘1dn§i:~et Na‘: 915d 31% W3lC0111ei 10 °°_1h“l ahfhg ii Anyone interested in fwreinst- 9
0  experlcnce IS req Ire . an TI 6, COmpC C, Or 1115 en_lOy lng or  a'manager or e
Baker 106. the race. Bike rentals are avail- wrestling team, please see Coach '
able. Anyone who is_ interested Fmnko [his week
The flrsl Service °f Rosll ' ' should contact John (463-7369) * l l
Hashanah the Jewish New Year   as soon as - 1
r _ r possible. , 3
will be held on campus Friday Th 0 - Cl l, B-la _ .
By llrla“ Rooln oonhl:rios1€,l,9il2ll dr:i:anZxiSlirli::Ioll::‘ao' ¢VCh1h8 3‘ ‘7530 lh  Chapel‘ White water rafting on the tion aetlsolmlllags rblgulal ln\§e:l:fy   l‘
Semol Copy E "or . barriers to formo the European ‘il):l)VflShMnsrli:ls‘l°l(lili§ew::l(l)2i'b ‘gnlillgl Upper Gauley - come i‘-afit one of rides.CAll ridesomeet él ilhtiiktir There win be an oiganizin l
Sir Eldon Grifﬁthsl a well‘ Common Market. l Schehules °f Saturday services ‘ll ill: lczizfemchlllgnglgﬁ r(1)l:rs 1:1  bdlzfrC<lkfbllemoll:ni§ifonlhatiolli- llolllll llleellllg of. llle Rllsslall I ‘'
known British statesman and Griffiths will analyze the forces nenrb S a 0 es as wen as _ . . i . . V . Cinb and n nniennon for Soviet
member Of Parliament. W111 3P°ak llllll ale llow llallsfomllllg llle hal léllhygaisggnalion Tllele.wlll lie a meelnlallog lo plzin _ exchange students on Friday at 4 0
Wednesday at 8 p.m. at Lee Chapel. economic structures of _Europe and P P - the trip toniiglnt alt]  pmni in  g pm‘ in Moms House. Rel-resin n
Griffiths’ presentation will be the then miililtayo and political balance :;>9m  0 nitnaeiis 111‘i':<:i1n1t)’  mom will be sen,ed_
f t ' edth's rb Contact, Wit 111 A - r' , _ 1\
2tlrspr3(ll)g:)rl2l1srf1)r whi<l:h yedlringld several Griffiths is currently the  I‘ L1lbk0Wl1Z 31.463-7590 _ The Art of Fly Casting i- _ n
guest speakers to W&L each year. chairman of the Anglo-Polish and T116. 01111118 Ch1_b_ 15 8150 Thursday, Oct. 3 at 8:00 p.m. in  
Griffiths’ lecture is entitled Il)\ni;lo—lraniiaIn n corriimitteeisnin in Advanced snidias in England rsrponsncnnngnlccayalln  Newcoirlb 9i [h6i::nr'l>\n1llf(l))rC :.irl ,
.. ~ . - ’ , - ~- ues or aiiizaiona m i . '
Aincricia and Europe. Rivals or Cniirnifamgliiln nlian agnraeioonvitnlni ff; is an undergraduate humanities from g’ to 8 in inn nid nnni nngisn nnnresnni in ﬂy inning’ The W & L Rugby Club will in
Partners. a P _ i P program i for Sophomores, G ) S_ in nd_ _ i i in kn in! are play ilie Unlvarsliy of Virginia
Hcflfhlhsl 5P°°°h 5h°“ld be Newsweek magaZllle' J -h1Il10fS. and S_f’»111°1’S,,h3Se,d,_ 1h (Doremus Bill?’ 115:. up - lmmlcuagr  l-fe  1 S -a N this Saturday at 1:00 p.m. on the ‘ f
particualrly pertinent to the changes Griffiths was named by Margaret Bath wim rosidonlial cornporiehis Vance at er , space is invov in e_ ective ‘fllsting. 0 upper fnnni i ‘
that will occur in Europe in 1992,” Thafchcr 35 _3 §Pi°k°51_h3h °h f°1'e18h in Oxford and Stratford-upon- llmlled‘ Be ready lo gel Wm’ expellellce ls lcqllllell‘ llllll
said Contact Co-Chairrnan Robert K. affairs. Snccializinz '11 NATO and_ tr
Tompkins. Cl Please see CONTACT page 6 In
I V
I I '
Parki n tickets and tow: n are bein enforced   Sh99P5k'“- ‘
  t d To n
By Jennifer Bandrowskl General‘ Hlflll llleglllly palked,,Cal.s’ MM 0 ' f
Staff Reporter ' we get tiiirty-five dollars, said    n
_ _ _. Peggy Home of the Lexington __ ’
of sufficient parking M" A W ‘A

Lack
facilities continues to be a problem
on the W&L campus.

According to Charles “Murph"

 

Towing Service. This includes the
minimum towing fee of thirty
dollars plus a ﬁve dollar storage
fee.

 

  

  

 

 

By Julian Gillespie

Staff Reporter

Murray of W&L Security, “Some
days two to three cars are towed,
some days none at all." Cars are
most commonly towed for
“blocking the trash bins outside of
Gaines, parking by yellow lines,
parking in restricted zones — like by
the wheelchairs — and parking in
visitor parking.

-There were no records of how
many W&L students’ cars they tow,
but _John Bunlap_ of the Lexington
Towing Service said, “On average,
we tow 13-14 cars a day, including
wrecks and breakdowns."

Several students have had their
cars towed from the Corral. Junior
Brooke Tinley’s car was towed after

This spring’s graduating seniors ‘
will receive the traditional sheepskin 3
diploma, despite rurriors «that W&L
is converting to the less expensive «
paper diploma.

“It’s the same rumor every
year,” said Registrar Scott Dittman. l,
“I think scniors start it as a joke,
claiming their class will be the last “

“All freshmen sign an affidavit someone parked next to hers, l° r°°°lV‘_’ lhe feal ﬁling‘ Tl“? S°h°‘_’l‘ l 4
when they go" through the blocking other cars. Both cars were ll‘lS.l,l° ,l,lll°llll°ll °f Cllllllglllg lllls
matriculation line saying they won't towed. lllldlllllll'

park anywhere but in the Liberty
Hall parking lot, and if they do,
tlieylre gonna get towed.” l

A common sight is an irate
student whose car has recently been
towed. Junior Laura Dodge knows
what its like. She had her car towed
from outside the University
Center.“It was stupid — it was late
in the day and I wasn't thinking. It
was a big pain and it was a hassle
because I'm injured. I think it’s

“The security guy said that we
have to work it out with all of the
other students where they're going
to park their cars. Now, they've
painted yellow lines there," she
said.

Tinley was also frustrated with
the towing service’s inconvenient
location. “It’s impossible to find
where they towed your car on those
winding country roads. If they are
going to tow it, they may as well

Sliocpskin diplomas were first
used for diplomas when paper was
of poor quality, but now they are t
virtually out of use. W&L is one
of about eight institutions which still
issue them on sheepskin. Virginia 0
Military lnstitute is included in this
small group.

The shccpskins are ordered from A
_Engl:md, for $33 each and are then
sent to Washington. There they are l
printed with imported ink from Ger— 9

  

with a Phi Doit sticker on it and it

also towed from the corral; “I’ University. According
’C' parking sticker. It was there

to Murray,
know it was my own fault and I

students who feel as though they

_ _ i before I parked and when I got was call (1 1 lff ‘ti 1;. h l, ' ll od , [‘- ml, 12 (fl
ridiculous that they tow it that far tow it somewhere you can Walk back and it was still there, but my was la veliynlriusiiaiﬁgsixpelllerlice I eilplfain eflrileirundlltfiallionlovl/o Ffhlrlllltl mlllglcslillaemllfic ltifrie lhncrd l§x(l::l:s.e »
. ' h h l ' ‘ ” is . . ' . . ‘ . . ’
in n:)nesnl>ill d just give you a to. Sophomore Broderick Gnnns car carilleesrli nnnin n gotniowed biocause Iihannnt put my Parsons, the aE‘S1SlanI to the Diumnn said, ..ii.s worth in Each '
i - i , ere s e a ' , ' - -i - , -. . - - -
Towing is done by nin was innnn nnm inc visinn parking new Sign nnn says ‘Len Cnnnni par ing stic er on :1 nt been president. He talks to them and dllllkllllil is .1 little different, each is

back to my car in about a week.” generally he's pretty fair about it,” unirluc,
In addition to towing fees, there Murray said, cl;ll_" i
is a $25 parking ticket from the

Lexington Towing Service, located
on Route 67 past the Keydet-

section of the corral. “I was pretty
upset because there was another car,

visitors only.’ "

That's what makes it spe- ll
Junior Tara Perkinson’s car wag,

   

 

  

  

  
   
 

— — — — — — — — — — — - ‘ “ ’ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ _ ‘ ‘ ‘ ’ ‘ - ' ' - ' ’ " ‘ If

International Peacemaker at W&L t
Shehadeh Shehadeh. GOLDEN Welcome Back University Theatre . .

. . E1335. "

_ Pal.esllnlan Clllzen of Israel  . Students‘, an upright doctor’s scale with sliding weights and a treadmill for use ,

_ Eplscopal Pllest as props for the next six weeks. i

Talk and discussion session
. 0 nM .—Thur‘. 11 a.. .- 10 . . T our new CALL IF YOU CAN HELP! I «-
”‘e‘~.°.‘::;::..°;‘.::':.':.‘:.*:,’.:.‘;:;-5  ’y . -
, Sundae Bar. 453-3637

Sponsored by Lexington Presbyterian Church ’

.- .. J. - — - — - — — - - — — - - - - - - - - - - - - — - * * ' * ’ " " ' _ .

‘ ‘_ ' ‘“‘“‘ any-.aee’o.eee<-/an . ,, ‘ l

U . n r u nne Right ran - tn

71106737 °‘

‘V Stop In Food Stores ;

ls. H00, Reid Hal. 463,344,, Invites students to visit our 3 Lexington Hamric & Sheridan, jewelers ‘
Iocaﬁonsz ‘

Come to your Prlntlng Center for: -l -l 3 N _ Main  D»
I  gr zgifilfgﬁs ;  8- letters 800 N. Main Standard 10% Discount 11 w. Nelson St. ‘
- Progllams - Brochures 8. Booklets Rt 60 West with Stlldelll I'D‘ Lexlngt°n9 Va‘ 24450 ll
. Newsletters - Scannlng ﬂy»? - n ' _ - I ’ ' _ . i _ . _ ’ . ' n ' _ ’ , _ ' - ’Ii'

   

 

 

 

    

    
   
   
 

  

Q

'1

. ’:‘\l
3

 

OFITS

The Fling-tum Phl, September 28, 1989

 

 

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

v Last Saturday, the Washington
and Lee Generals played host to a
tdugh Centre College football team.
Going into the game, Generals head
coach Gary Fallon knew his team
would “have their hands tilled.”

‘ And they did.

In an evenly matched game, both
the Generals and the Colonels found
scoring opportunities hard to come
by in the ﬁrst half.

1 Although Centre kept the W&L
defense on the ﬁeld for what
séemed like an eternity in the first
half, the Colonels were able to
manage only a shaky 34-yard ﬁeld
Dal on the last play of the half by
‘avid Harr to lead 3-0.

While: the W&L defense -was
keeping Centre’s offense in check,
ﬁe Colonels’ defense was returning
'e favor to the Generals’ offense.
A.t halftime, the Generals had
crossed midﬁeld only once, with
trial drive ending in one of junior
Mason Pope's seven punts on the
day.

‘ Keeping the Generals offense in
check was something that neither of

&L's first two opponents could
do. In games against Emory and
H'enry and Methodist, the Generals
put up 72 points (25 and 47,
respectively) while ﬂying high on
tlhe arm of senior quarterback Phillip

Sampson. In the two games,
Sitmpson put up All-American
numbers, throwing for over 470

yards and six touchdowns.
4 Centre’s defense was not in awe,

     

§__they double-covered each of the
Generals’ outside receivers, juniors
Craig Irons and Carl Gilbert, which
allowed the defensive line, led by
end Gary Fields, to get into the
backﬁeld and sack the Generals’
signal—caller nine times on the day.
Said Fallon, “Centre was a very
good football team. They were
quick and aggressive. Their
secondary was very good. A lot of
our problems offensively were due
to what Centre was doing
defensively. We had trouble
blocking one of their defensive ends
and they had good coverage.”
Despite being under constant
pressure, Sampson still completed
12 out of the 22 passes he
attempted for a respectable 92 yards.
While Centre was keeping Air-
Sampson on the muddy surface of
Wilson ﬁeld, Colonels’ tailback Tim
McDaniel was having a career day.
McDaniel ran through the Generals
defense for a career-high 202 yards
and the lone touchdown of the day
as Centre stopped W&L 10-0.
McDaniel was able to get most
of his yards running sweeps behind
two pulling guards and, a host of
other blockers, and making the first

potential tackler miss. On the
Colonels’ touchdown drive,
McDaniel carried the ball eight

times for 59 of the 74 yards,
including a 33-yard romp off the
right side that put the Colonels
inside the Generals’ 20-yard line.
That was the only time Centre
was able to put a real dent in a
W&L defensive unit that hung
tough and made big plays all

   
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
    
   

   
 
  

 

 
 

study lamps.

Gifts to Lift Your Spirit!

‘The Unique Store that has gyegyong talking!

Jewelry 0 Books 0 Tapes
Crystals 0 Kites - Stuffed Animals
Candles 0 Clothing 0 Cards

16North Main St./Lexington, VA
703-464-1800

Lexington Lighting

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Just Arrived

Floor Lamps

We also carry a complete line of

  
   
 

 

26 South Main St.

463-9338

  
  
 

afternoon long. The secondary of
seniors Brad Miller (an
interception), Bobby Rimmer, Bland
Warren and junior Clark Wight,
along with sophomore Fred
Renneker kept Centre quarterback
Kelly Sandidge from sustaining a
passing attack with ﬁne coverage.
Sandidge completed just ﬁve of 19
attempts on the afternoon.

The unit combined for 27 tackles
on the day. The line, led by seniors

Dave Radulovic and Scott
Silverrnan. junior Carter Quayle and
sophomore John McCallum

combined for 28 tackles and two
sacks. Linebackers Mike Pack and
Trey Cox were the backbones of the
defense. Pack, a senior tri-captain,
was in on 17 tackles and broke up
two passes. Counterpart Cox, a
sophomore, was in on 10 tackles
and recovered a fumble.

“We were in the ball game
thanks to our defense. Our defense
did a good job. They hung in there
and got some turnovers and caused
some timely penalties that helped
keep them off the scoreboard,” said
Fallon.

When the offense stalled, Pope
kicked the Generals out of .a hole,
getting off punts of 42, 41, 34, 46,
and 61 yards among his seven, the
last into a wind, for an average of

41.5 yards. Pope also led the
Generals ground attack with 41
yards on 10 carries.

Offensively, Irons had another

ﬁne afternoon, xmaking five
receptions, almost all of them of the
diving variety, for 50 yards.

Said Fallon, “Our receivers, God

Generals

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee men's
soccer team split a pair of games
this week, losing a road game at
North Carolina-Wesleyan on Sunday
4-2 and beating Shenandoah
yesterday at Liberty Hall Field 3-0.

Before travelling to North
Carolina for Sunday's game, head
coach Rolf Piranian said that
Wesleyan, at 6-2 on the season,
would be one of the strongest teams
the Generals would face all season.

The Bishops indeed proved to be
tough as they jumped out to a 2-0
lead in the ﬁrst half. Their ﬁrst goal
came on a penalty kick resulting
from a disputed hand-ball call.

Wesleyan scored again before
freshman Mike Mitchem dished the
ball off from the top of the penalty
box to sophomore Winthrop Allen,
who one-touched it to the left side
of the net for his first collegiate
goal.

The Generals tied the game at 2-
2 early in the second half when
Mitchem gathered the ball at the top
of the penalty box, turned, and
drilled it into the lower left comer
for his ﬁrst career goal.

The Bishops recaptured the lead
when they scored the eventual game
winner on a goal that was assisted
by a throw-in. They added another
goal after the Generals miscleared
the ball up the middle of the
backﬁeld.

Sophomore goalie Lee Corbin
started the game, collecting three

  

   

Client Service Representatives

NEW FIRM IS MOVING INTO
THE LEXINGTON AREA.

bless them, they caught some
passes, but they paid for them too.”
“We never got untracked
offensively. We would do something
nice and then we’d hurt ourselves
with maybe a penalty or allowing
ourselves to be sacked. We just
never really found it throughout the
whole game. Our defense hung in
there as long as it could,” said
Fallon. '
Next, the 1-2 Generals will take
on Randolph-Macon at Ashland in a
game that historically comes down
to the last minutes. The home team
has not won in the series since

1982. The Generals, playing at
home last year, tied the Yellow
Jackets 10-10. Two years ago, in
Ashland, the Generals prevailed 35-
28. Sampson threw for over 230
yards and had two touchdowns, and
Carl Gilbert returned a kickoff 80
yards for another score. Game time
is 1:30. WLUR-FM 91.5 and
WREL-AM 1450 will carry the
game live on the Washington and
Lee Radio Network.

Centre 0 3 7 0 -- 10
Washington and Lee 0 0 0 0 --0

Centre-Hair 34 field goal
Centre-McDaniel 2 run (Hart kick)

Individual Rushing
Centre-McDaniel 35 carries-202 yards, Corbeu
ll-49, Sandidge 3-(-7), Casey 1-1. W&L-Pope
10-41, Crosby 6-13, Sampson 11-(-52), Gilbert 1-
(-3), Kxeis 1-(-5), Goglia 2-6.

Individual Passing
Centre-Sandidge 5 completions-19 attempts-1
interception-41. yards, McDaniel 0-1-00. W&L-
Sampson 12-22-0-92.

Individual Receiving
Centre-Tamer 3 catches-29 yards, Bruner 1-10,
Casey 1-2. W&L-Irons 5-45, Martin 3-24, Hod-
ges 2-11, Gilbert 1-7, Pope 1-0.

Senior fullback Russell Crosb
football game. Crosby

Generals drop close contest to Centre

y finds the going tough in last Saturday's
and co. we held in check by a stingy Centre
defense as the Generals fell to the Colonels 10-0. W&L file photo by
W. Patrick Hlnely.

shut out Shenandoah 3-O

saves and allowing two goals.
W&L’s two other goalkeepers saw
action as well. Senior Jack Pringle
tended the net for 27 minutes,
registered two saves and was scored
on once. Junior Jon Bull, playing
for 18 minutes, chalked up seven
saves and allowed one goa_1.

improve on their current ﬁve-game
winning streak. Throughout the
game, Shenandoah displayed some
excellent team passing skills, but it
was W&L who did all the scoring.
The Generals opened their
scoring at 34:36 of the opening half

when senior Rick Silva assisted

 

Rick~SiIva
Even though the fourth straight

road loss dropped the Generals’
record to 1-4, Piranian remained
optimistic about the team. “I
thought we played pretty well," he
said. “We're disappointed (with the
loss), but we feel we’re a good

club. We saw a lot of pluses
[Sunday]. ’ ’
Hoping to turn their season

around, the Generals started a four-
game homestand yesterday against
Shenandoah.

The visiting Hornets came down
from Winchester nlannina to

   

2. Flexible hours.

 
       
 
 
    
 

/ ‘.4 ///////r ///////7//////////// I/7’///7//////////////////7///////////W7/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

1. Work with some of the largest organizations in the
country representing their product or service.

3. Excellent pay with opportunities for advancement.
4. Limited positions available.

Call Bob Smith at
(703) 433-2311

toll free at 1-800-468-4720, ext. JOB

"///z%7/A’3V/////////////A///////////////////////////////////I7//////{V///A7 /9

    
  

NEED A STEADY
PART-TIME JOB?

The GHQ needs dishwashers
& cooks.

  
  
 

 

' ’v‘} ’/.///7//////////////////////////////A’Vﬁ7A////f ‘//////////V

'// /,////

    
   

‘,1 I /./// /// '//7//////./////.r -'////

   
  

     

’/‘////////// // /.0

  

— Excellent pay
- Good benefits

- Room foradvancement
- Learn from a REAL professional

   

 
 
 

  
 

”/ ///////////////;’/////7/V////ﬂ‘167/ //x:. N

~‘i////// ////////////// //////// ////////////ﬂ//////////////////ﬂ//////////////////////////AV//////////I//////////I////////////////////////////

Serious—minded workers please contact
Mary Martin at the GHQ.

  
   

 
      

///'///// ’////////////////////~ ‘Z

 

 

Rolf Piranian

Mitchem, who sent a shot inside the
left post from close range.

W&L almost increased its lead
less than a minute later when
Silva’s short bloop—shot bounced off
the end of the crossbar and his
follow-up header was cleared by a

Shenandoah defenseman.

The Generals added to their lead it

with 2:55 to go in the first half.

Junior Duke Dillard passed the ball I
from the left side to senior Scott ,

Levitt, who directed it high into lhzg
right comer of the net to give W&L
a,_2;0 lead at the half.

At the start of the second halt’.

Shenandoah had the heat turned up '

and kept W&L’s defense busy. Torn
Wallace, the Hornets’ goalie, had

little to do but stand and watch thc '

action at the other end of the ﬁeld
until Mitchem was shoved from
behind in Shenandoah’s penalty box
at 27:47.

On the ensuing penalty kick.
Wallace could again do little but
stand and watch as Silva’s right-

footed shot rippled the right side of I

the net.

Bull got his ﬁrst start of the .
Although slightly .1
hindered by a bulky knee brace, .A

season in goal.

Bull turned in an outstanding
performance and made seven saves.
Pringle replaced Bull at 16248 of the

second half and collected ﬁve saves ~

of his own. .
The 2-4 Generals’ next game is

against Roanoke this Saturday at '-

2:00 at Liberty Hall Field.

announces

New Hours Beginning Oct. 2, 1989
Mon.-Sat. - 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
Thursday 10 a.m. - 8:30 p.m.

The Bookery now has thousands of used volumes and hundreds
of new volumes from which to choose. ‘

107 West Nelson Street
P.0. Box 1388
Lexington, Virginia 24450
703-464-3377

 

Buy, Sell and Trad
Used Hardbacks & Paperbacks

POSTCARDS POSTERS STATIONERY PACKING AND SHIPPING SERVICES

~WR|TlNG INSTRUMENTS GIZMOS GADGETS STUFF

ﬁﬂt

& PURES

H7 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-4096
Open daily from 10 AM - 8 PM/Sundays from Noon - 6 PM

  

SCIHVO MTVHO B3818 S>DVSdVN>l Scll/W18 ‘ciEl88flti

  

  

 

Looking for two good men

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

department?

.. ):A_w

The search commit-

We have been at school now for the better part of one month. Is it just
me, or does it seem like there are some things missing around the athletic

Yes, there were moves made in the athletic department over the sum-
mer. Yes, athletic director William McHenry resigned. Yes, head lacrosse
coach Dennis Daly was reassigned to a new post within the department.

So what has been done to fill these voids? We are a month into the
athletic year, and Washington and Lee University is without a ‘full-time
athletic director and without a lacrosse coach. When will this situation be
rectified? One problem will solve the other once an athletic director is
named. University president John D. Wilson has said that the naming of a
new lacrosse coach will be the first act of the new athletic director.

This brings up a couple of questions. How far along is the search
committee for the athletic director? and, once the new AD is named, ho
long will it take to name the new coach? '

tee has set Nov. 1 as
the date on which the
new athletic director
will be named. Since
lacrosse is not having
5 a fall season, interim
Athletic Director
Richard Miller has
said that the starting
date in the spring,
usually Feb. 1, will
be moved up to make
up for the lost prac-
tice time. But Nov. 1
to the middle of Janu-
ary is not a lot of
time to search for, in-
terview and then

name a new coach for
the main spectator
sport of the season.

Not only is it un-

W&L’s new Athletic Director

Waiting this long on both accounts carmot help improve the lacrosse
program, which one can assume was the reasoning behind the reassign-
ment of coach Daly. Any‘ coach who has had experience is most likely
already working, and if that coach is working at a college, it is highly
unlikely that he will leave the school after the fall season, which most
schools have, to start anew at a different school.

fair to the institution,
which is trying to re-
build a program that
was once at the top
of its league, but it is
unfair to the returning
players and incoming
freshman prospects.
Just how productive
can you ask a group
to be if they don’t

know who will be
coaching them a
month before their

season starts.

player.

any recruiting. You figure it out.

head men’s lacrosse coach.

New men’s lacrosse coach‘

One more problem with waiting so long to name the new men in the
athletic department — the future. You have to have a coach to do the
recruiting, and just how many players are going to come to play for a
program without a coach. Picture this: a prospective student/lacrosse player
is up for his campus interview. He is walking around campus with a few
of the lacrosse players. One of the topics of conversation is the lacrosse
program. The prospective asks the players how the coach is, and the
players shamefully answer, “Well, we don’t have a coach right now, and
we’d like to know how he is as well." Chances are, no matter how
beautiful the campus is, we just lost a possible all-America lacrosse

The formula is simple: poor recruiting = a sparse future. Recruiting is
the key to any successful program, and without a coach, there can’t be

Meanwhile, it’s Sept. 28. We still don’t have an athletic director or a

The

Smooth

Ring-tum Phi, September 28, 1989

______________j__________________________
W&L’s Athletic Department:

sai

. <<  2‘

 

ling for

 
By Chris Baradel
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee water
polo team, emerging last week as
the only undefeated water polo team
in the nation, continued its steady
ascent up the Eastern Regional
rankings by winning the Virginia
State Championships last weekend.

An educated guess by goalie
David Olson, and a scoring eruption
by standout defender Alan Herrick
keyed the Generals’ championship-
game win, a taut 12-9 triumph over
arch—rival Richmond. The win
propelled the Generals to the
seventhyplace in the Eastern Region
rankings. .

The Generals leveled Lynchburg
18-7 in their first game, and
humbled Hampden-Sydney 16-5 in
the second — the Generals’ third
win of the year over each team. The
wins set up the climactic clash with
the Spiders, whom W&L had
expected to play in the ﬁnals of last
week’s North Eastern Varsity
Invitational.

W&L head coach Page
Remillard had expressed reservations
early in the week about his team's
ability to counter some of the fine
individual talent Richmond relied

upon. He needn't have worried.

CAREER

from page 4

completely new systems. The new
“career navigator" package is a
training tool that teaches a student
to conduct his own job research and
eventually prepare a list of prospec-
tive companies. Available on disk
format, it will hold resumes and log
the various contacts made
throughout the job search. A second
system, called “Virginia View,” is
speciﬁcally tailored to trace career
trends and patterns throughout the
state. Changes have also been made
to the Discover computer, which has
been offered in the past and used to
help students begin the initial steps
in self assessment and career explo-
ration. "

Heatley has also announced that

INTERNS

trom page 4

constituent letters, to opening mail
and getting things signed,”said
Schroeder.

In addition to working on
Capitol Hill, Schroeder said once a
week students attend a class, taught
by Connelly, and a lecture seminar.
In addition, students write a
research paper and keep a daily
journal. Participants receive six
credit hours for their work in the

  

31 s. Main s:., Lexington

  

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Hon.-Sat. 10-5

program.

“It’s an experience you can’t get
here on campus, nor anywhere else
in the nation or the world. Besides
the intern program, the classroom
part was excellent. We had really
good speakers, and Professor
Connelly did a good job of directing
the program,” said senior Shawn
Copeland, a Washington Program
participant.

Any student, regardless of his or
her major, can apply for the
Washington Term Program.
Prerequisites for the program are

    

  

 
 
   

463-3355

  

SUPPLIES O
mita

LARRY ADAMS
MANAGER

 

EQUIPMENT 0

ﬁetterleg
(liffite ﬁuppltg & gliquipment (ﬂu.

Art Supplies 0 Computer Paper & Ribbons
Copy & Fax Service 0 Personalized Stationery

FURNITURE

29 N. Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450

703 463-4062
( ) I

 

SHOOTING SUPPLIES
CLAY PIGEONS  
AMMUNITION

Ill

18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-1800
“Look For The White Horse ”

  

The Washington and Lee water polo team, de-
spite losing over 70 percent of last year's scoring
to graduation, has found this year's schedule

smooth sailing.
tournament, the
team in the nation at 11-0. W&L file photo.

Three Generals made the all-State
team ~ Herrick, Jay Smith, and
Tomas Perez - combined to score

ten goals.
Said Herrick, “Last year I
concentrated solely on defense.

This year, everyone has to pull their
own weight, so I decided to go for
a few goals.”

Yeah, and John Tower decided
to go for a few drinks.

Herrick tallied five goals, a
career high, and even prompted the
Richmond coach to wonder, “Alan
Herrick, where’d he come from?"
Too late coach — the knockout blow
had already come.

No less a factor was a
memorable save by Olson. It came
in the third quarter with W&L
ahead 6-5 when Richmond was
awarded a penalty shot: a shooter
alone with the goalie. Penalty shots
are like the ending to a Mike Tyson

fight - almost a foregone
conclusion.

But Olson had noticed something
previously that would spoil the
ending for Richmond. “I’d seen

[the Richmond shooter] take a few
penalty shots earlier in the
tournament and every time he'd

taken a skip shot to the goalie’s
left,” he said, “I guessed he’d do it
again.”

the Career Connections program will
be expanded to more cities this
year. Career Connections is an off-
campus job search program that
works through alumni networks in
order to find W&L students summer
internships as well as permanent
jobs. Last spring the first of these
meetings took place in New York
City. W&L students wishing to
work in New York were matched
with W&L alumni according to in-
terests and job fields. This fall and
winter, Career Connections will hold
conferences in New York City,
Washington, D.C., San Francisco
and Los Angeles. Due to the loyalty

and support W&L alumni have
shown for this institution, Dean
Heatley is particularly optimistic

about expanding the Career and De-
velopment Office through the alumni
ranks.

After winning the Virginia State
Generals are the only undefeated

Said Remillard, “His [overall]
play was instrumental in keeping us
in a position where we could
concentrate on offense. The players
have a lot of confidence in him
back there.”

Instead of being tied at 6—all as
they had counted on, Richmond
found themselves still trying to get
even. Although the Generals were
tied later in the quarter, they took a
8-7 lead into the fourth quarter that
they never relinquished. Said W&L
co-captain Shawn Copeland, “This
was our best weekend of playing.
We played together, and it’s always
nice to beat Richmond."

Remillard had plenty of praise

to spread around. “Part of our
strength is balance. [If our
opponents] concentrate on one or

two guys, we have the athletes to
beat you. Our secondary defense
really helped. It stymied Richmond
when they tried to force Alan
Herrick out of the two meter [close
in] defense.”

The team has three weeks off
before its next tournament, where it
will face Eastern power Brown in
the first round. The break will
allow the Generals to return to a
“preseason atmosphere," according
to Remillard; stressing academics,
conditioning, and fundamentals.

CONTACT

from page 4 ‘W

the Common Market. He was
knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in
1987.

Contact, which is administered
entirely by W&L students, has
brought many well—known speakers
over the last several years. Past
Contact lecturers include former
Under Secretary of State Elliot
Abrams, former advisor to President
Ronald Reagan Michael Deaver, and
Adolfo Calcro, the leader of the
Nicaraguan contras.

“We hope to expand the Contact
program this year to include a major
entertainer and author,” Tompkins
said. “At the same time,
maintaining the tradition of W&L’s
strong interest in political topics.”

 

completion of Politics 101, 102, or
111 and a 3.0 grade point average
overall and in Politics classes.

Connelly said participants are
chosen in January on the basis of a
short application, a resume, and an
interview. In addition, he calls
references to find out about students
who apply. Connelly said he looks
for good students who he thinks
will be able to workpin an office
situation. ’

“I look for maturity, a sense of
responsibility, and an ability to get
along with people. If we’re going to

put students in an office, they must
be able to get along with people in
a pressure cooker situation, and
handle it well and with a sense of
humor,” Connelly said.

Schroeder said the Washington
Term Program gave her a better
understanding of what goes on
behind the scenes of Congress and
is an excellent opportunity for all
students.

“It's great, even for people who
aren’t politics majors. There's so

Our Typing
is

Word Perfect”

 

8:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M.
Evenings and Weekends by Appointment

DEAVERS ALLEY BUSINESS SERVICES
203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
463-9455

St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church

RESPECT LIFE

SUNDAY
OCTOBER 1, 1989

Mass Schedule:

Fri., Sept. 29-12:15 pm.
Sat., Sept. 30-5:00 p.m.
Sun., Oct. 1-8:00 & 10:30 a.m.

 

 

For Beginners

It ’s Aerobic and It ’s Fun!

Fridays and Saturdays
11 a.m. - 12 noon
Halstone Dance Studio

Carol Kirgis 463-5443

 

10 S. Randolph St.

  
 

much history and economics.
Almost any discipline can be found
on the Hill,”Schroeder said.

The Program also gives students
the necessary experience to get a
job on the Hill after graduation,
according to Copeland.

“It’s hard to get an appointment
if you haven’t had one before. You
get a foot in the door,”Copeland
said.

Schroeder said her favorite part
of the program was
there.”

“just being

Aerobics  Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

    
   

W&L Sports
The Ring- tum Phi

I

W&L harriers
open season’
with strong -
performances

By Amy Packard P
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee crogs
country teams emerged from their
first meets with excellent times
in put themselves in good shape to
put together successful seasons. s

Women’s head coach Jim
Phemister was encouraged by tlfla
team’s performance against Mary
Washington College and Universit
of Richmond. '

“We ran very strongly against
both schools. Our finishing times
were markedly ahead of those at tltﬁz
same point  last year’s season,’.’
said Phemister.

W&L’s competition was
particularly formidable, considerin
that Richmond is a Division §
school, and Mary Washington,
Division III, has had a stranglehold
on first place in the South/Southeast
Conference in recent years. ,,

Junior Cecily Tynan ran an
especially impressive race finishing
with the best 5-km time in the
ODAC at 20:55. Tynan’s time was
also a personal best for the ct!-
captain. Phemister said that Tynan’§
result “reflects her determination
and dedicated training.” *

I

Cecily Tynan

it

“I was very pleased with
Cecily’s performance and the team"s
as a whole. This team has
demonstrated that it is ready to
work hard, and they are already

seeing the results.” .
The team participates in a
rigorous practice schedule which '

includes six runs per week and ea
weightlifting program. Phemister
feels that the workouts are going
smoothly and are aiding the
improvement in the thirteen team
members. it
“After this meet, we ._w'l
definitely have a better idea’ of our
strengths and weaknesses and shdubd
know more about how our training
has worked,” said Phemister.
On the men’s side, W&L splitrna

pair of meets with Mary
Washington and Washington
College. Sophomore Charltts
Edwards led the way for the
Generals with a time of 28:17 over
the five-mile course. i‘ ,

Said men’s head coach John
Tucker, “The team performthi
extremely well. I think they ayp
feeling a general excitement about
the prospects for this season.” I

The next meet for both tea
will be this Saturday in Norfolk,
Va. The teams will compete with
Division II Norfolk State and Ol.d
Dominion Athletic Conference foe
Roanoke. I

   

audiotronics i

VlRGINIA'S STEREO SPECIALIST

DENON ALPINE .
ADCOM BOSTON

3&0 cwo «‘
KEF SONANCE ,
SIGNET B&K

KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI ,
- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED yr

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT

- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER ’
- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED V

(800) 468-6667 I
4

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood 9
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

   

 

   
 

‘Y

 

Bear in mind,

_  _ anything and everything for
' '  your utmost convenience!

 
 
   
  
  

    
 

we do just about

  

      

 . . >
.l£lI..t(1.lTl. , -’ .,v .,
M0 Copy graphics _
Hi-Speed Copying - Desktop Publishing - FAX - Design Graphics '1
463-1712 ‘ 125 W. Nelson, Lexington ° FAX 463-6918 I‘

  

 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
   
   
 

  
  
 

i
l
l

 
 

V

 

9

&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, September 28, 1989

By all means, read....

By Chris Swan
Staff Reviewer

The Hunt For Red October 
Red Storm Rising  “Patriot Games
A, The Cardinal In the Kremlin 
these are the works of one of

merica’s newest and greatest
writers, a superb storyteller with an
eye for detail. Since the publication
or Red October in 1984, Tom
Clancy has become one to the most
celebrated authors of this decade.
His intricate lcnowledge of ‘the
military seems to belong to either a
inilitary or an intelligence officer.
In fact, Tom Clancy is a former
‘insurance salesman who wrote Red
Qctober from painstaking research,
mostly of material in the public
domain, and a bold imagination. It
as rumored that this book earned
him a White House debriefing and a
private talk with the president.
a Each of Clancy’s subsequent
works has thrilled millions of
feaders worldwide. He has written
about the defection of a Soviet
submarine; a modern scenario of
World War III; ‘terrorism abroad and
at home and a Soviet double—agent
deep within the Kremlin. And, once
again, Clancy thrills his readers with
gs newest book, Clear and Present

anger.
A The flow of drugs into America
is one to today’s hottest and most
controversial issues. President
I

Ronald Reagan's war against drugs
unfortunately produced no concrete
results, as more illegal drugs that
ever poured over our borders in the
past two years. Reactions to this
have ranged from letting those drug
users who are the cause of this drug
import to go “ahead and kill
themselves to demands for tougher
anti-drug laws to cries for military
intervention in South America to
wipe out drugs at the source. Tom
Clancy has taken all of these views,
added in some of his favorite
characters like Jack Ryan from Red
October and other Clancy novels,
and produced an explosive novel of
espionage, intrigue and dirty
warfare.

Jack Ryan, the hero of Clancy’s
Red October, Patriot Games, and
The Cardinal of the Kremlin, is back
again as'a CIA analyst and the new
deputy director of intelligence,
discovering someone has decided to
take the flow of drugs into the U.S.
as a threat to national security.
American military units are secretly
deployed in Columbia to destroy the
drug trade at it’s source. Yet the
book dwells not only on these
actions but also the morality of
these events. When can a nation
treat criminal activity as a threat to
national security, and what steps
may that nation take? Clancy takes
the reader not only into the
headquarters of the CIA but also to
the board rooms of the Colombian

I:-lunan Garden: a B+

 

By Todd Peppers
‘Entertainment Columnist

’ V

Take a few seconds and ask
yourself the following questions:
Have you memorized the menu in
the GHQ? Do you visit the Co-op
so often that at night you hear
someone yelling “chicken ﬁlet with
cheese?” Is your desk buried with
the food service’s wooden riickels?
These are several symptoms of a
well-kriown disorder called “Sick of
Eating On Campus.” They usually
surface during the fourth week of
classes and fill Washington and Lee
students with a desire to eat any-
place that does not take “points or
cash.”

‘ If you are looking for a break
gofn campus, then Hunan Garden
estaurant may be the answer.
Hunan Garden is located in the
Rockbridge Square Shopping Mall
and can be easily missed since it is
hidden between McDonald's and
Schewel Furniture Company. I think
It is a restaurant worth finding for
',hose who want more than the ordi-
nary off-campus sandwich shop.
" Several friends and I have ven-
tured to the Hunan Garden three
‘times in the last ten days. My last
visit confirmed my belief that the
estaurant fills a void in the array of
restaurants in Lexington. The inte-
rior of the building itself is quite
nicely done. The restaurant is not
divided up into little cubicles, but is
completely open. You can sit at
your table, glance around, and see
who’s with whom. There are booths
glong the walls, but they do not ob-
scure one from looking around the
restaurant. One side of the restaur-
ant contains a fair-size bar that
oasts of a fairly inexpensive drink
list. There is a large television over
he bar that I found a bit distract-
ing. Who wants to watch “Jeopar-
lay” while eating wonton soup? The
j chairs around the free-standing ta-
les are corrifortable and the larger
cables have “lazy-susans” to help
‘ with the exchanging of dishes.
__ If you want to eat out but are
goncemed about spending a large
amount of money, the Hunan Gar-
Hen’s Sunday buffet is perfect. The
buffet is only $5.95 and customers
can eat egg rolls until they drop.
The contents of the buffet change
from week to week. The Sunday I
visited the restaurant offered egg
iblls, fried chicken wings, Kung Po
fhicken, Beef Lo Mein, Shrimp
with Green Peas, Fried Rice with
Shrimp, Sliced Beef Mixed with
Vegetables, and Sweet and Sour Tri-
ple Delight (Sweet and Sour Pork,
1

f .
,5’ 9’ou are cordially invited
A to attend an

9 OPEN HOUSE
l_ at tlie

UNIVERSITY
PRINTING CENTER

Reid Hall
' Qﬁursday, October 5, 1989
S 2:30 p.m.-4:00 p.m.
See our equipmertt—[eam our
tcapa5i[ities—taIK_to our staff.
- ﬁefresftnzents will be served.

1

I

Beef, and Shrimp). The buffet also
offers clam chowder, fresh fruit, and
fortune cookies.

The buffet was quite good in
total, with a few glaring exceptions:
no steamed rice was present, the
clam chowder seemed completely
out of place, the Shrimp with Green
Peas was tasteless, and the Kung Po
Chicken was buried in green pep-
pers. Yet the other dishes were
good and the Triple Delight was
excellent. Considering the low'5price
and amount of food, the Sunday
buffet is worth the trip.

Keeping that in mind, I am
forced to say that I enjoyed my two
dinners at the Hunan Garden more
than the Sunday buffet. The dinner
menu gives the customer freedom in
selecting entrees and does not put
one at the mercy of the buffet. The
dishes my friends and I selected
during dinner established in my
mind that the Hunan Garden is a
fine restaurant. The one dish that I
loved was General Tso’s Chicken.
Found under House Specialties,
General Tso’s Chicken is a hot and
spicy dish that features large chunks
of boneless chicken covered with
the “chef’s special sauce” and
served with sauteed vegetables. It is
a dish you must try.

I also was impressed with the
Hunan Beef (another hot dish),
Sweet and Sour Pork, and the M00
Shu Pork. A warning is in order for
all uncoordinated people like myself
who order the M00 Shu Pork. It
requires a degree of assembly and
one must carefully place the M00
Shu Pork and plum sauce in a pan-
cake and fold the entire concoction
up. I cheated and had one of my
diner companions make one for me.

One of the most impressive as-
pects of Hunan Garden is the ser-
vice. When we were seated for
dinner, the entire restaurant was
filled. Our food arrived in around
eighteen minutes, yet our waitress
apologized twice for the delayll I
find that a refreshing change from
some local restaurants that take over
thirty minutes to make simple dishes
and really don't seem to care that
the customer is left fending off star-
vation. The waiters and waitresses
watch every detail. The second time
I ate dinner at Hunan Garden, my
waiter and I were locked in a con-
test as I repeatedly tried to empty

«AFFILIATED COUNSELING /Ll-TERAPISTS

cartel, to the coast Guard ships in
the Gulf of Mexico, the agents of
the FBI who work on domestic drug
operations, and the covert-action
teams in the jungles of Colombia in

. an effort to view the problem from

every possible angle. The reader
finds both familiar characters and
new ones in this novel: Red
Wegener, the old Coast Guard
captain who must deal with the new
problem of drug’ runners; Dan
Murray, a senior FBI agent who
discovers an enormous money
laundering scheme connected to the
Cartel; Adm. James Greer, the dying
deputy director of intelligence for
the CIA, whose failing strength
guides Jack Ryan into his new
career; Sgt. Domingo Chavez, a
light infantry soldier who finds
himself involved in a dangerous
search-and-destroy mission; Juan
Cortez, the renegade Cuban
intelligence officer who sells his
talents to the Cartel; and a CIA
field officer, known only as “Mr.
Clark,” who has a lifetime of
experience and is Jack Ryan's only
real hope for discovering who, if
anyone, has broken the law with
these super-secret drug operations.
As each character has a specific
purpose in this novel, so does the
title. “Clear and present danger” is
a test of First Amendment rights
developed during World War I and
the accompanying ‘Red Scare.’
Supreme Cdurt Justice Oliver

l§I.'éil§
IE]

     
 

K

IEI
IE
[E
[El .  
IE

IEEIEI

9{‘ll£7\[}’l9\[ gmtcoml

£S'Tﬂl‘Zl:7{/‘?l9\[’1‘

Holmes put the test forward in the
1920s in the case of Schenck v. U.S.
The government can abridge First
Amendment rights when freedom of
expression “create(s) a clear and
present danger."

Some people in this novel view
the drug trade as such a danger and
have taken steps to rectify what
they believe to be a threat to the
security of the U.S. There are no
hard and fast rules, however, to
define that substantive evil. Who
has the right to declare the drug
problem a threat to nation security,
Clancy asks in his latest.

Several early readers of Clancy
have complained that his writhing
is too stiff and focuses more on
modern technology than on the
human characters. It is true that Red
October was full of technical terms
and complicated hardware, as was
Red Storm Rising. Clancy’s Patriot
Games dealt with superbly with the
characters and not with gadgets,
showing Clancy’s developing skill
as a more personal writer. His love
for gadgets is clearly present (pun
intended) in this book, but his
characters are also ﬂeshed out and
carry emotions of their won that
will carry over to the reader. By all
means, read Clear and Present
Danger. Clancy’s portrayal of the
drug trade will make you sit up and
think.

|::j[§[j'| New store sells
‘youthful’ objects

  

Rockbridge Square Shopping Mall

my water glass before he refilled it.
I lost. This is just another facet of
Hunan Garden that places it above
several area restaurants.

My only complaint about the two
dinner experiences was the prices of
the entrees. I think that $9.50 for
General Tso's Chicken and $8.50
for Sweet and Sour Shrimp is a bit
excessive. Prices on several Appetiz-
ers were also a little more than I
cared to pay--either Fried or
Steamed Dumplings cost $3.50. I
realize that we are not in a larger
city where many Chinese restaurants
compete for the consumer’s dollar.
Yet I still think the prices are on
the high side for this market. Do
not be deceived by the lower prices
of the lunch menu. The prices are
almost three dol_lars less than the
dinner menu, but one waiter freely

admitted that the portions are small-
er. V

In the ﬁnal analysis of the
Hunan Garden, the small amount of
negative aspects are far over-sha-
dowed by the positive qualities.
How can you not like a restaurant
that gives you chopsticks with an
instruction manual? I fully rec-
ommend the restaurant to anyone
who is looking for a break from the
monotony of campus food. Not ev-
eryone falls in love with Chinese
food, but I think the Hunan Garden
will have something for even the
most discerning customer. Peppers
will give it an “A” for effort and a
“B” for content, final grade is a
“B+". If only some of my profes-
sors were as generous with my
grades.

as

. .
The R.E. Lee Episcopal Church
Undergraduate Campus Fellowship
will have its opening evening meeting this Sunday, October 1st
at 6:00 p.m. in the parish library for Eucharist, dinner,
and Bible study.

Please join us!

Sometimes you need

Susan M. Sisler, LPC
CALL 703-463-3305

RT. 5, BOX 379
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 in a crowd? Feelings of isolation and alienation
from others can make social occasions a nightmare. You can learn
to enjoy yourself in the company of others but it may require pro-
fessional help. Sometimes you need more than a friend.

 

more than a friend.

6 Eastwashington Street
Lexington. VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE HI

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478

1-800768~LE HI

 

By Kimberly Booth
Staff Reporter

Postmarks and Pleasures, a gift
shop located near the comer of Nel-
son and Lee streets, opened earlier
this month, offering a new assort-
ment of calendars, cards, party fa-
vors and scientific toys to the Lex-
ington community.

Postmarks is owned and man-
aged by Susan Harb, who is also
the owner of Caravans, a dress and
accessory shop located next door.
Harb decided to open Postmarks
after a quite successful summer with
Caravans, which opened in May.

“I was surprised at the amount
of visitors to Lexington this summer
that supported Caravans,” Harb
said. Despite the lack of students in
the summer, the store attracted
many townspeople and tourists, in-
cluding Lime Kiln guest actors and
actresses, individuals attracted to the
Horse Center and people from area
summer camps.

“Postmarks is like a college
book store without the books,”
Harb said. It consists of youthful
objects which can be used in “a
first home or college environment.”

Looking for merchandise, Harb
travels to various foreign countries,
including Guatemala, Mexico and
Portugal. Her next stop will be Sin-

gapore. She also sells items from
Japan, India and France. She works
with missionaries and workers in the
Peace Corps to get some of her
more unusual items.

Postmarks also sells “altemative
cards,” blank cards with designs on
the covers. Educational coloring
books and star-charts are also
among other “gadgets and gizmos,”

as Harb calls them, that Postmarks

offers.

 

“Postmarks is like a

college bookstore

without the books.”
— Susan Harb

Harb created Caravans after a
15-year journalism career. She said
she wanted a store that would con-
sist of travel items from all over the
world.

Harb said she chose Lexington
for one of her three Caravans stores
when she was passing through the
town on a skiing trip. She found a
“comfort about the town” that
made her want to move here.

Both Caravans and Postmarks
are open 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday
through Friday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Saturday, and noon to 6 p.m. Sun-
day.

Personal ads
coming soon

 

Ideal Barber Shop

Welcome back to W&L
Come visit us
We also have a ladies haircutter

22 S. Main St.

Under lst American Bank

 

167 S. Main St.

463-3 1 06

Stop by and open up a charge account for all your grocery needs. We
have a complete line of fresh meats, produce and groceries. We also
stock domestic and imported iwrs, wines and bottled waters. For
special meat cuts, contact our meat ..' ‘rrartment and they will be glad to

help you.

Serving the W&L Community for over 35 years.

  

EBACK

PAGE

Movie ‘Stars’ given

By Elizabeth Hancock
__Staff Reviewer

The Ring—tum Phi rates movies

‘ on a 5-point scale, as follows:

* * * * “ — The best. Rent it,

. even if you have an exam the next

7 day.
* * * * — Great. Go for it even
if you have to write a paper.
* * * — Good. Watch it if all

I you have to do is read a couple of

chapters.
' * * —- Rent this tfyou just want
to put off your homework.
* —— You're better off doing
work.
Dead Calm —— "‘ * * 1/2
Imagine looking out as far as

you can and seeing nothing but
clear blue water. You and your

Tackle
the

Homecoming
Supplement
in next week’s

Ring-tum Phi

spouse are on a getaway cruise. Par-
adise. Now picture a crazed killer
coming aboard. Paradise has sudden-
ly turned into hell for this young
couple.

This Australian thriller contains
so much suspense, you’ll feel like
you’ve been tossed and turned like
a dingy in a thunderstorm. The new
twist in this movie -~ it’s up to the
wife to save the day.

Crocodile Dundee II — * * *

Mick and his blond bombshell
are back for a second go-around in
this action-packed adventure. Unlike
some comedy/adventures, some of
the best parts weren't in the pre-
views.

Mick goes from the jungle of
New York to the Outback of
Australia to rescue his girlfriend
from Colombian drug lords (And, of
course, everyone knows who will

DO IT

  [Midnight Madness

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

in October... Watch for our new bar
and lounge with an extended menu,
billards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of

Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

 

\
l
The Ring-tum Phi, September 28, 1989 ,
9
PAUL HOGAN LINDA xoziowsxi 4‘
  66 y 3 ,
I   C Iendar '
‘ ) Th ‘ ' 1 1' k '
W111 . 6 origtna SIOI'y 1I’le 68pS
your interest peaked, and the screen— Sepiember 29 to October 8 u
play keeps a smile on your face. ‘
  _
4 p.m. RUSSIAN CLUB: C ' meeting and ,. ’ for Soviet ‘ MOITIS “W50-
The Accused .. 4* =8 * 4- 4:30 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENTAND PLACEMENT: Student registration deadline for Challenge.
 movie , def-initel isn,t for S - 7 p.m. NEWCOMERS GROUP: Social at W&LAlumni House. " W V Ha“ g
Y 8 p.m. I"-TLM SOCIETY. A Ilanrgful o_[Du:r (England, 1988). Classroom A. Lewis .
[he s0f[-hgar[ed_ But, If you can s[o_ AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN'S TENNIS: Swanhmore Tournament (through 9/30). .
mach a couple of scenes of graphic sﬂmmmggmmmmg '
violence then ou’l Rosh Hashanah. I '
’ y . 1 be treated .10 l p.m. WOMEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs, N.C. Wesleyan. Liberty Hall Field. I
One of the most poignant and realis- 2 p.m. MEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Roanoke. Liberty Hall Field. _ p ‘
[ic dramas of the . 3 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: A Handful ofDusl. Classroom "A.“ Lewis Hall. Publlc Invited-
. summer AWAY ATHLETIC Evi=Nrs: FOOTBALL: Randolph-Macon/Ashland; VOLLEYBALL:

Jodie Foster plays a lower—class Mary Washington/Fcrrum; CROSS COUNTRY (M&W): Norfolk State/Roanoke. , x
woman who is gang—raped at a bar. '
Kelly McGillis is her attorney. June I990 degree applications due. ‘
These two women do an outstanding ,.
job of bringing out all of the harsh 3 pm. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT (coup); Discover Workshop. Room 108.

- University Center.
mental and physical facts about 4 p.m. CD&P: Interviewing Workshop. Room I09, University Center. I
rape. 4 pm. MEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Hampdcn-Sydney. Liberty Hall Field. G ’
. . . I - ~ v 8:15 pm. LECTURE: "All Real Life is Meeting: An Introduction to Martin Bubcr,” Eva Jospc. eorgc

TIIIS PICIUYC KISO .glVCS‘ dI1 aCCU' _ Washington University. Room 327, Commerce School. Public invited.
rate portrayal of our _]l.1dlCIaI system Crocodile Dundee ll rated three Aw,” ATHLETIC EVENT, WOMEN-5 SOCCER, soumgm Seminary, i
a] ‘ all of the red tape that comes stars. That's good, if you have , 
with it. If you want a movie that only a couple OI chapte I3 of All Day CD&P: Mock Video Interviews (advance sign-up). coo? orrice. _ C '

* , - ‘ ‘ - 3:30 p.m. WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon Woman's College. Varsity ourts.
will make you think, this is it. hOrT19W° Ik to read 7 p_m, POLITICS FILMFEST: The Deﬁant Ones (USA, 1953). Room 203, Reid Hall. *
8 p.m. BRITISH AUDIENCE DEBATE: "This House Would Ban Abonions." W&L and Oxford
University debate teams. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited. A
8 p.m. CONTACT LECTURE: "America and Europe: Rivals or Partners?" Sir Eldon Griffiths, British
statesman, member of Parliament. Lee Chapel. Public invited. .
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Bridgewatcr.
A
 
4 p.m. LECTURE: "Christian, Muslim, and Jcw: A Peace-Making in Israel," The Rev. Shchadch N.
Shehadeh, Jcnisalem diocese in Israel, member of Israeli/Palestinian Peace Committee. f
Room 327, Commerce School. Public invited.
4 pm, CD&P: Resume Workshop. Room 109, University Center. . P
5 p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Room 401, Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402.
7 p.m. POLITICS FILMFEST: The Deﬁant One: (USA, 1958) Room 203. Reid Hall.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Mary Baldwin. .
V
I
ENmX 
HOMECOMING WEEKEND. _ _ _ ,
12:10 p.m. JOHN RANDOLPH TUCKER LECTURE: "Race Regulations, Economic Libertics,arid the
' Police Power," Richard A. Epstein, James Parker Hall Professor of Law, University of ‘
Chicago Law School. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall. Public invited.
5 p.m. Opening Reception for exhibit, "Parallel Leucrs--Parallel Lives: The Correspondence of Lee
and Jackson.“ Boatwrighi Room, University Library. he invited. i
3 pm. MEN'S TENNIS: W&L Fall Classic: W&L, Davidson, J. .U., and Ohio. Varsity Couns.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Washington College Tournament. '
 
HOMECOMING. f
9 a.m. MEN'S TENNIS: W&L Fall Classic. Varsity Courts. I
10 am. CONCERT: W&L Choral Ensembles, JubiLee, Southem Comfort. Lee Chapel. Public invited. V
11 am. WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY: Generals vs. Lynchburg College] Mary Baldwin. .
11:30 am. WOMEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon Woman's College. Liberty Hall Field. 7
Noon MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: Generals vs. Catholic University/Lynchburg College.
2 p.m. FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Maryville College. Wilson Ficld. '_
3 p.m. MEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Mary Washington. Liberty Hall Field.
I
1 p.m Alumni/Varsity Lacrosse Game. Upper Athletic Field.
9.
D
I
EXHIBITIONS ‘

DUPONT GALLERY: “Photographs by Patrick Hincly and Charles Mason" (through Oct. 8). Gallery hours are _

9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Admission is free. '

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: "The Two Gentlemen of Verona: A Selection of the University , I
Library's Print, Non-print, and Rare Holdings" (through October).

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: "George Washington: A Window on His Library" ‘
(through Oct 1). "Parallel Letters--Parallel Lives: The Correspondence of Lee and Jackson" (opens Oct 6). b
Hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. -

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, LOWER LEVEL ONE LOBBY: "W&L and the Founding of the Rockbridgc ‘
Historical Society" (through Oct 13).
I

 

Read it all

in
Eligibility:

The Ring—tum Phi

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO

Ladies’
Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

Earnings:

University.

fairs.
Experience

23 N. Main St. (703) 463-5988

BlERER’S
PHARMACY

‘ ‘Prescription Pharmacists ’ ’

0 Specialty Bath Lathers

Buying and Selling New and Used
CD3, cassettes and LPs

and collector’s items.

Hours: Noon-10 p.m., Mon.-Sat.

11 S. Randolph 82., Lexington

Position Title:
Department:
Reports to:

  

0 Assorted Men’s Fragrances
0 Toiletries 0 Shaving Kits & Accessories

1 North Main Street, Lexington, Virginia 24450

Phone 463-3119 — Emergency Phone 463-2213

Una V iosi

Enrolled students with qualiﬁcations similar to
those listed below.

Editor of Una Vox

Office of Minority and International Affairs
Dean of Minority and International Affairs
Anece McCloud

A stipend is provided

Major Function:
The Student Editor is responsible for the bi—annual publication of
Una Vox, the Multi-Cultural Newsletter of Washington and Lee

Responsibilities:

Recruits reporters and works with the University photographer in
making photograph assignments; creates, updates the guidelines for
staff; and supervises the staff in their performance of duties. The
Editor is responsible to the Dean of Minority and International Af-

Necessary:

This position requires editorial knowledge gained through formal
course work, extra curricular activities, or internships.

Interested person please submit a letter of application to the office of
Minority and International Affairs by Fi, Oct. 6, 1989.

BANNED+
iiriiiitgs 1
“hunt:

Freedom to Read
SEPTEMBER 23-30, 1989

Don't take the First :-
Amendment for granted!

A
For more information t
visit the W&L Bookstore _

Party T-Shirts made to order!
Oneof-a-Kind Shirts to

Say What X211 Think!

EsteIle's Grill
Commemorative Shirts!

Got a Great Idea for a T-Shirt?

 
        

I111

    
 
 

COME IN TO:

   

  

Big Dog Graphics
We‘ve moved to 17 1/2 Randolph
under Hunter & Huntress.

      
   

464-4050

Call 463-26}_§,A

 

,..A_,.._ _ 7.7.7  L. I

 

