  

 
 

‘T
VOLUME 89, No.10’

Clip: Bing-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

‘ot to trot

LEXlNGTON,VlRG|NlA

 :',‘}l1'ivt"Q>3 ‘ 
V,-',,,‘-:,.U««et.."_i‘-1*. ‘*5



é«

NOVEMBER 9, 1989

’ Runners get ready for the start of Washington and Lee's 1989 Tur-
,key Trot Tuesday afternoon. Top trotter was Prof. John Tucker, who
finished the '3.1-kilometer course In a time of 18:48. Junior Larry

iDebate

 lover break

Icontinues

‘By Melinda Conkling
Staff Reporter
1

4 A referendum will be held on
Wednesday, November 15, to gauge
‘student interest in a Fall Break.
, The Executive Committee and
Voting Regulation Board decided to
‘hold a referendum before a proposal
regarding a fall vacation is submit-
ted to the Faculty Executive Com-
lrnittee.
g ‘‘I feel that at rriidterrns students
and faculty are tired and worn out.
"Most people have taken exams and

eed a break,” said junior Willard

urnas, EC President.

' ,“A lot of people leave town the
weekend after midterrns and some-
times blow off classes. Professors
feel that students regress over
Thanksgiving and then it takes a
Tull week for students to get back
(on track,” said Dumas.

According to Dumas, the only
‘bption still under consideration
gavould give students a break from
Friday, Oct 25 through Monday,
Nov 4 during the 1991-92 school
year, but only Thanksgiving day off.

Wilder

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

The eyes of the nation focused
on Virginia’s gubernatorial election
Tuesday which resulted in Lt. Gov.
L. Douglas Wilder, the Democratic
candidate, claiming victory over Re-
publican J. Marshall Coleman by
less than 8,000 votes.

With 99 percent of Virginia pre-
cincts reporting, Wilder had 888,475
votes to Coleman’s 881,484, accord-
ing to the Roanoke Times and
World-News. WVLI-FM reported
Wilder’s lead at about 7,700 votes
yesterday afternoon.

If elected, Wilder will be the r_ia- I

tion’s first elected black governor,
but Coleman is expected to demand
a recount.

Reiss Wilks, Young Democrats
president, anticipated a victory for
Wilder.

“I feel pretty confident that
we’ll pull it of ,” Wilks said Mon-
day night.

College Republicans Vice Chair-
man Thomas Brubaker did not share
Wilks’ enthusiasm for Wilder’s suc-
cess, but was also unwilling to pre-
dict a Coleman victory.

“I think it’s going to be tight,”
Brubaker said Monday, predicting a
52 percent to 48 percent victory for

AIDS conference
Set for Northen

 

 Brian Root
Senior Copy Editor

‘ The Health Education Committee
is sponsoring a teleconference con-
peming the spread of the AIDS vi-
rus in the college community, As-
sociate Dean of Students Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins said at Tuesday
iiight’s Iriterfraternity Council meet-

.“It’s definitely a worthwhile
event,” Atkins said. “It’s another
effort on the part of W&L to save

_ your 1ife.’’
‘ ( The teleconference, said Atkins,

will be shown in Northen Auditori-
in the University Library .Nov.
L6 from 1 to 4 p.m.
The conference will present sev-
lral different issues, including
edical and legal problerris associ-
ated with AIDS patients, according
to the committee’s Co—Student
Chairman, senior Nancy Hickam.

“AIDS is not a problem that
will go away,” said Hickam. “The
teleconference is designed to exam-
the campus issues and to try to de-
yelop ways we can deal with AIDS
on our campus."

4, Atkins said the teleconference is
now particularly relevant to college
sftudents.

“According to statistics from the
Centers for Disease Control, college-
age heterosexuals are now the fast-
est-growing age group contracting
AIDS,” said Atkins.

The teleconference is being
sponsored by several organizations,
including the National University
Teleconference Network and the
American College Health Associa-

1

tion, said Hickam.

In other business at Tuesday's
meeting, IFC President Kevin Nash
announced that Kathekon, W&L’s
student—alumni association, will be
holding a tailgate party before
W&L’s final football game Satur-
day, at Georgetown University in
Washington D.C.

“I encourage you to go up there
and support the team,” said Nash.
“But if you do go, you might want
to spend the night. Just watch out
for any drinking and driving.”

Nash announced there will be a
meeting for each fraternities’ presi-
dent Wednesday, Nov. 15 at 6 p.m.

“It’s just an informal meeting
for you to let us know what prob-
lerris you might have with the Judi-
cial Board,” Nash said.

Nash said there were “no prob-
lems" concerning noise violations

this past weekend.

“This was a good weekend as
far as the police go,” Nash said.
“Thanks a lot.” .

Nash said the IFC had received
no further complaints concerning
prohibited pledge activities. The
IFC, Nash said, had heard reports of
some houses holding mandatory ac-
tivities during Parents’ Weekend.

According to the IFC’s bylaws,
formal pledge actvities cannot begin
until Winter Term.

Nash also announced Kathekon
will be holding its annual “Bridge
the Gap” party in the General
Headquarters restaurant tomorrow at
6 p.m.

The party is held for undergrad-
uate seniors and third-year law stu-
dents. Admission, food and drinks
are all free.

Pilkey, running for Sigma Nu, was the top student runner, with a
time of 19:10. Pi Kappa Phi won the team competition. About 200
people completed the course. Staff photo by Michele Jones.

one side or the other.

Many voters believe that this
election hinged on each candidate’s
abortion stance.

“The five votes that counted the
most in this election were cast not
in Virginia but on the Supreme
Court,” said state Sen. Robert Scott,
D-Norfolk, referring to the Supreme
Court’s recent decision allowing
states more freedom to restrict abor-
tion.

Coleman supported the largely
Republican pro—life view, while Wil-
der expressed his support for a
woman’s right to choose to have an
abortion.

The campaign featured extensive
use of negative ads on both sides.

“There was Coleman mudsling-
ing,” admitted Brubaker, “but there
was Wilder mudslinging that wasn’t
given coverage.”

“[The campaigning] has been
pretty filthy,” agreed Wilks. He
called Coleman’s early campaigning
“belligerent,” and said that Wilder
just “fought fire with fire."

Virginia Military Institute’s pub-
lic information director, Tom
Joynes, said the election’s result

will have no effect on his school’s
single-sex policy.

“It would take legislative [or
legal] action to change the policy,”
said Joynes, not an order from the

I -4

oin 

W&L’s women’s volleyball team in
Emory & Henry earlier this season. The Generals

governor.
Statewide, the Democrats enjoyed
considerable success. Donald S.

Beyer, , a Northern Virginia car
dealer in his first bid for public of-
fice, was elected lieutenant governor
in an unexpected upset over Repub-

C

VMI cadet
dies in fall

 

By Wendy Wolford
Staff Reporter

A freshman cadet at the Virginia
Military Institute fell from his
fourth—ﬂoor barracks window to his
death early Saturday morning as he
attempted to do a handstarid on the
windows safety railing.

A memorial service was held
last night in VMI’s Jackson Memo-
rial Hall for David W. Brazier, 19,
of Virginia Beach.

According to VMI spokesman
Tom Joynes, doctors say Brazier
probably died as soon as he hit the
paved utility road 40 feet below his
window. Brazier and his two room-
mates had just met their 2:30 a.m.
curfew following the school’s annual
Ring Figure Dance, an event where
juniors are presented with their class
rings. Joynes said the cadets were
doing handstands on the waist-high
railings in their windows in what he
called “exuberance and horseplay.”

Joynes explained that doing
handstands on the railings is not

lican candidate Edwina P. “Eddy”
Dalton, the widow of former Virgin-
ia Gov. John Dalton.

Incumbent Democrat Mary Sue
Terry won another term as attorney
general by defeating Republican Jo-
seph B. Benedetti.

uncommon for cadets.

“Apparently he [Brazier] must
have gone farther than they normal-
ly go,” said Joynes.

A routine investigation Saturday
conducted by VMI’s commandant,
Col. William H. Dabney, determined
the incident was a “freak accident.”

Joynes added that doctors found
no evidence of alcohol use and that
Brazier was not acting on a dare
from another cadet.

Joynes said no disciplinary ac-
tion will be taken, nor will the acci-
dent lead to any changes in school
rules or to the design of barracks
windows.

According to Joynes, Brazier’s
death was the first on campus since
1977 when a student drowned in a
VMI swimming pool.

In honor of the freshman, who
was a walk-on member of the foot-
ball squad, a parade preceded Satur-
day's football game and cadets
donned black armbands from their
uniform neckties to wear to the
game.

claims victory; recount likely

In the race for the 24th District
seat in the Virginia House of Dele-
gates, Republican Del. S. Vance
Wilkins defeated an independent
candidate, Barbara Jean Pryor, by
10,035 votes to «’Pryor’s total of
3,333.

Bush rallies Coleman forces

By Genienne Mongno
Associate Editor

RICHMOND —- In a last—minute

Virginia’s gubenatorial election in favor of the Republi-
cans, President George Bush appeared at a rally for
Republican candidate J . Marshall Coleman last Friday.

Bush gave his full endorsement to Coleman as well
as to Sen. Eddy Dalton, the Republican candidate for
lieutenant governor, and Sen. Joseph Benedetti, the
Republican candidate for attorney general.

Dalton and Benedetti were defeated by Democrats

Donald S. Beyer Jr. and incurnbant
Mary Sue Terry.
In his speech to an audience of

who attended the rally, Bush called Coleman “a man
of integrity and experience, a man who deeply loves

this state.’ ’

“Marshall knows the issues that matter most to

Virginians,’ ’ said Bush.

The president then highlighted Coleman’s positions
on many of the major issues of the campaign, stressing

action against

Coleman’s tough attitude toward crime and the battle

against drug abuse.
“Marshall Coleman knows it’s time for action. He
knows we’ve got to go after drug dealers and drug

attempt to swing

that Coleman is

Attorney General

at

users. And he knows it’s time to confiscate the dealers’
ill-gotten gains an take the profit out of the drug busi-
ness,” said Bush.

Bush also adressed the issue of education saying
as convinced as I am that there is no
other issue more vital to the future of this state, this
nation and to the kind of lives our children will lead."

On the subject of tax increases in a Coleman ad-
ministration, Bush said, “Marshall Coleman is one
candidate who doesn't confuse having a vision for the

future with having a sharp eye on your wallets.”

more than 5,000

Bush, however, did not speak on the subject of
abortion, which had been a major campaign issue and
one which several political analysts have said was the

turning point in the campaign for Wilder.

Thomas Morris, a political scientist at the Universi-

ty of Richmond said, “If abortion wasn’t the number-

   

defeated the Wasps last weekend. See story on
page 5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Football ends in Georgetown

By Jason Kelley
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee will play at
Georgetown in the final football
game of the W&L season Saturday,
and Kathekon, the student-alurrini
group at W&L, is promoting the
game and encouraging all W&L stu-
dents to attend.

Kathekon had originally planned
to rent a bus to take any interested
students to Georgetown to see the
game, but those plans were cancel-
led.

Elizabeth Parkins, who works
with Kathekon in the Alumni Of-
fice, said W&L rented a bus to go
to last year's Bridgewatcr game and
there was virtually no interest

among the student body.

Wes Boyd, president of Kathe-
kon, agreed.

“In the past, turnout for these
things has been horrible,” he said.

He added that Kathekon’s goal
is simply to get students to attend.

Boyd said when Kathekon decid-
ed not to rent a bus of its own, the
group approached the Interfraterriity
Council and encouraged the fratemi-
ties to promote the game.

At least one fraternity, Kappa
Alpha, is renting a bus for the
game.

“Actually, the fraternities liked
it better this way, because they
could have alcohol on their own
busses, whereas the Kathekon bus
would have been dry,” Boyd said.

According to Ann Barton, a

member of Chi Omega, W&L’s so-
rorities also had plans to rent a bus
together to go to the game but had
to abandon those plans.

“There are just too many things
going on this weekend,” she said.

W&L’s Washington-area alunmi
chapter is sponsoring a tailgate party
before the game. It is a catered lun-
cheon and is by invitation only, but
Christie Davis, chapter coordinator
for the alunmi office, said, “I’m
sure students would be welcome to
go over and say ‘Hi,’ especially sin-
ce there are a lot of younger alunmi
in the Washington area.”

The tailgate party, which begins
at 11 a.m., will be held at the west
end of parking lot number three,
just in front of Georgetown’s
McDonough Gymnasium.

one issue, it was a close second. It cut more sharply a-
gainst Coleman than even Wilder thought.”

SAB bingo
returns
to pavilion

By Jennifer Bandrowski
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee’s Student
Activities Board will be hosting its
second Bingo Night at the student
activities pavilion tomorrow.

According to Stewart Hammond,
the SAB member in charge of the
event, the doors will open at the
pavilion at 7 p.m., and the fust
game will begin at 7:30. Wildgrass
will begin playing at 7 and will also
entertain during intermissions.

According to SAB ‘member
Schuyler Rideout, a variety of prizes
are available. They are a Bahamas
cruise, a trip to Cancun, a VCR, a
Nintendo video game and a 26-inch
television set. There will also be
various gift certificates and door
prizes awarded. The gift certificates

are redeemable at the Palms, the

Willson-Walker House, Spariky’s,
Alvin Dennis and the College Town

‘Shop.

Cards COSI $3 for the first card
$5 for two cards, $6 for three cards:
and 3136! that $1 apiece with a ﬁve-
card limit.

“Not everybody likes to go to
concerts all of the time, so we
thought we’d provide a little variety
out at the pavilion,” Hammond
said. The SAB’s first Bingo Night
was held last winter.

“SAB made money on this last
year — about $70 —- which we
didn’t expect it to," Hammond said.
“Basically the event pays for itself,

and we expect the prizes to pay for
themselves " ~v.=.4_

 

{pi gum-.

__,,,,,..-—-.-.-oc-y.-...-.-.--.u-.
,-. .....-.--..‘.‘.~.«.-.-..............--....a u.‘.I. . '

  

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, November 9, 1939

Time to take
some time off

Classes have been in session for nine weeks now and
many students are gearing up for those ten-to-twelve page
papers the professors decided en masse to have due on
November 17, the day before Thanksgiving break.

Those same students who arefeeling book weary, and
still have a paper to do, probably sit in class and think
about playing golf, and hitting the town, and every other
thing they haven’t had time to do since September.
Students daydream, and the professors have noticed.

Executive Committee President Willard Dumas,
prompted by some of the faculty, recommended to the EC
the idea of a mid-fall break be explored. The Ring-tum
Phi encourages the EC to pursue the idea of a break.
After six or seven weeks of classes, students’ interest
‘begins to wane and skipping class becomes a reasonable
altemative.

A ten-week stretch is too long for either students or
professors. After ten straight weeks of classes, students
aren’t any more interested in classwork than professors are
in grading the last forty mid-term exams.

Dumas went on to suggest a calendar for the break.
For instance, students will get a one-week break at the
six-week mark and Thanksgiving Day off, with classes
again the following day. /

mid-term, but to keep them from getting lazy from too
much vacation. Professors complain that, as it stands now,
the students retum from a November break with no
motivation and pay no attention to their work, and their
grades reﬂect it. The professors say the students take their
books home with intentions of studying, but don’t actually
study. .
Perhaps the professors and the EC need to look at the
problem from a different angle — One-week of vacation
isn’t too much, it’s not enough. An additional break will
pace the students over the term, rather than overwork
them.

Do the professors believe the students will return at the
end of a second break unable to properly prepare for their
exams? If the school divides the students’ work into two
shorter sections, they will pay more attention before
Thanksgiving break. Students won’t be so tired when
they leave, and will return to Lexington refreshed and
ready for ﬁnals.

Further, if Thanksgiving break is only Thursday,
students will divide into two camps — those who skip
classes to spend the holiday with their families and those
who stay on campus and phone home at suppertime
Thursday night.

It is easy forarea residents to recommend that students

might _be on the other table though if their families were
in Dallas or St. Louis or Miami.

Washington and Lee’s year begins later than most other
schools’. W&L students wait for school to begin, either at
home or here in Lexington, while their friends have
already retumed. Starting our school year earlier would
solve the problem. Use the time at the beginning of the
year to provide the students with a much deserved
vacation in the middle of the term, without taking away
from an important family holiday.

Quote of the week

You don’t understand me. You are not expected to  I am
beyond your experience. I am beyond good and evil  I will
be avenged. Lucifer dwells within us all. — Richard Ramirez,
the devil-worshipping “Night Stalker” who murdered 13
people during a summer rampage that terrorized California,
to the judge who sentenced him to death yesterday.

Ours and yours

As the editors of a student newspaper, we feel an
obligation to publish each and every student-opinion
piece we receive, and we encourage students and other
members of the W&L community to submit letters or
“My Views.” However, we reserve the right to edit
any and all submissions for reasons of taste, libel,
clarity or length. '

The rationale, it appears, is to give students a break 3

don’t need to go home for Thanksgiving. }.'I7he turkey. .

States should

MY VIEW
By Richard Hill

In the Oct. 26 issue of the Phi,
Elizabeth Parkins and Pamela Patton
respond to J. Cameron Humphries
“My View” against abortion. They
claim that Carneron’s “limited
comprehension of medical fact,” his
“suspension of reality,” and his
“sophomoric tone...have no place in
an intelligent discussion on the
abortion issue.” Well, these ladies’
essay is best described in the terms
that Rep. Henry Hyde, a Republican
from Ohio, used to describe the
1988 Democratic Platform: “a large
bowl of cold soggy mush.”

The two ladies seem to believe
that Roe v. Wade is fully intact, and
that the Freedom of Choice (or
Reproductive Choice, as NOW calls
it) is a fully recognized
Constitutional concept. Think again!
When the Supreme Court decided
the case of Webster v. Reproductive
Health Services, it threw out much
of the framework of the Roe v.
Wade decision. While not
completely trashing it, they
redeﬁned the issue around a more

specific and more easily understood"
. con'cept,.=that.~of- the state’s vrighttlto ‘~
proteetiwhat they .feel is anlegritirnate“

interest.‘

It is in Roe v. Wade, where the
original three trimester system is
devised. It seems that, outside of
any contemporary medical fact, the
only reason the concept of the
trimester system came into being is
because nine is most easily
devisable by three. Justice Harry
Blackmun grossly abused the U.S.
Constitution when he wrote that
decision, and it may very well go
down in legal circles as the poorest

/ ~—'

decision in the history of the
Supreme Court. A Even many
respected liberal legal scholars,

while agreeing with the decision,
think that the legal reasoning is
poor.

To somehow deduce that the
Constitution gives women the right
to slaughter their unborn children is
one of the biggest mishaps is legal
history. Certainly Elizabeth and
Pamela would agree that it is wrong
to kill a one day old baby (who,
incidentally, carmot survive without
help from the mother), and they
would most certainly agree that laws
should make it illegal to do so; yet,
they totally disregard the rights of
the fetus and consider “a woman's
freedom to voluntarily choose an
abortion" as the ultimate right and
the ultimate consideration. Wrong
again!

What must be considered here,
in regard to Roe v. Wade, is
whether the state’s in this country
have the right to protect what they
feel is a legitimate interest. I say
that they do, and with little
exception, the Supreme Court agrees
with me. The question on the state
level is: Is a fetus a legitimate
interest for us to protect? Again, ‘I

‘say yes. _, V ,5 _
A fetus, ‘is “a human being,___
because it "is a” unique biological’

entity. If you do not believe me,
look in your biology textbook under
the section which discusses
reproduction. It will tell you that the
fetus has 46 chromosomes (23 from
each parent) in a unique pairing that
has never been seen before and will
never be seen again. The fetus
should be protected for this simple
reason. Even if it does not have
arms or legs that you can see, it has
individuality and thus is an

.individual. So killing a fetus is the

sugkf/I L M/‘Iii b1LL°$

say no to abortion?

same as murder.

As abortion is murder,
Carneron’s comparison of the lives
of fetuses to the victim of wars is
appropriate, but minuscule. Over 1.5
million fetuses are slaughtered each
year, so it follows that this is
infanticide -— clearly put, infant
genocide. It is murder in every
sense of the word, and because
murder is a crime at the state level
abortion should be as well. It is
reasonable to make abortion against
the law in all cases. Either it is, or
it is not wrong. If it is, as I
contend, than we must outlaw it
under all circumstances. To cave in
to certain exceptions opens way for
a rash of exceptions and to a
complete disregard for the law. I
feel for a woman who has been
raped, or for one who has been the
victim of incest, but they must
remember that they are carrying a
human life in them, and that human
life deserves the same protection
that they do. Although it is an old
saying, I must say it here: two
wrongs do not make a right.

The Supreme Court has wisely
decided to turn much of the issue
back to the states. Soon, with the
inevitable reversal of Roe v. Wade,
they will retum""all of,vthe__iss_ue to

" the states’. The justices” Late; ,,n_o,t
doctors “or ministers, they a're'__‘lg=;g’alp

sc'h’olars.‘Their job is to preserve the
Constitution and to rule on the law.
They are not supposed to be
responsive to the people, nor should
they, because the average layman
(or woman, sorry Molly Yard!)
lcnows little or nothing about
Constitutional law.

In a recent debate on abortion,
one of the debaters said that for
someone to say that they are against
abortion is to say that they know

more about the issue than the nine

9

4 I

top justices in this country at the
time of the Roe v. Wade decisi .

. Well, sorry to say it, but Roe v.

Y

Wade is almost dead, and to rely at
it any more as a justification is no
longer credible. The five justictis
who made up the majority in the
Webster decision are acknowledged
within legal and intellectual circles
as perhaps the most brilliant legal
scholars ever, which puts them high
above (with the exception of
William Brennan, a man with whom
I disagree emphatically, but whom ‘I
think is brilliant and I have a great
deal of respect for) the members of
the Supreme Court who made up
the majority in Roe v. Wade.

I think that Elizabeth and Pamelit .

go too far with their opening quote!
tiori. To imply that all people whp
are anti-abortion or pro-life agree
with Joseph Schneider is the saint

as saying that all republicans agree

with Lowell Weicker. To further
imply that all people who are
against abortion are also against
birth-control is outrageous, consider‘-
ing that I am in "favor of most
forms of birth control and think it is
rather silly to be both anti-abortioii
and anti-birth control. ,,

As_ soon as the “pro-choice”
forces: wise up and realize that rib

--,matter.howimuch money they spengl

lobbying the Supreme Courw they
are not going to win this issue 4
the Justices are rightly acting on
their own opinions and inter-
pretations, not those of the latest
Washington Post poll — the soone

this country can redirect it's atten-
tion to other issues. The states wilf
soon have to make the ultimate de-
cision on abortion, and I hope that
they all decide to outlaw all aborsy
tions, for the sake of humanity and
for the sake of the “children” of’
the future. 9

@112 ilttttg-tum iﬂlit
THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

    
     
   

 

Editors .................................................... ..Gregory Euston, Stacy Monison
Associate Editors .................................... ..Jarnes Lake, Genierme Mongno
Assignment Editor ............................................................ ..Pat Lopes
Editorial Page Editor .... ..  .............................. ..Tina Vandersteel
Entertainment Editor.... ................................................ ..Pamela Kelley
Sports Editor ........................................................ ..Jay Plotkin
Senior Copy Editor .............................................. ..Brian Root
Editorial Cartoonist ............................................................. ..Jeff Woodland
Business Manager .................................................................. ..Arine Dysart
Advertising Manager.... ....................................................... ..Jason Kelley
Circulation Manager .................................... ..Alan Litvak, Clint Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring—tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in The Ring—tum Phi office,
Room 208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in
that week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

Pastor favors
exact wording

My thanks go out to Mr. Hurnphries for his
reporting of the “older professor form Ber-
keley’s" remarks in your Nov. 2 issue.

Though I rriight hesitate in attributing the
success in “redeﬁning key terms within the
language,...penetrating a culture's language and
altering the manner in which they think" to
the American Atheists Society, I find this over-
all analysis of our current state to be wonder-
fully inaccurate. I can almost feel the profes-
sor’s sense of triumph as he describes the
point we have reached “where a man can
scarcely say that any morality is anything bet-
ter than ‘true for hirnself,”' though the news-
paper's help in tracking down student check-
bouncers does seem a little “retro" in this
light.

Though I concur wholeheartedly with the
professor's analysis of our present reality, I
disagree both with his interpretation and his
vision — this in spite of personally experienc-
ing the powerful attraction the vision rep-
resents. On the contrary, I stand joyously
alongside and within a tradition which claims
that our God is the world’s since the beginning
of and for all ages, and that moral statements
which we make have applicability to all homo
sapiens. It is a living tradition which reserves
without idolizing the work of science and the
arts and which refers to its theology as “ﬁdes
guaerens intellectum." It is a tradition which
experiences the pangs of growth and yet stands
confidently firm on its basic foundations. It is
a tradition which recognizes our fragile interde-
pendence and hence holds in its highest esteem
the well-being and unity of the community. It
is a tradition which candidly admits within
human nature everywhere and at every time the
coexistence of flaw and greatness, and which
seeks through joyous and humble communion
with its Redeemer to reestablish the harmony
for which it believes we were intended.

The professor is so right in pointing out
how the language has changed. But we see it

LETTERS

as temporary aberration, not permanent trend,
for, as our tradition has already seen so many
times in its multicolored history, it is our lan-
guage which best describes what it means to
be human and to live. It is now the Enlighten-
ment whose language is spent, musty and
worn. Whose good intentions have ended up in
a most fatiguing anarchy and nihilism. Which
has power to bring neither joy nor harmony.

My dream is of the day when we, the en-
lightened, the oh—so—tolerant and the properly
relevant, confess the failure of the vision in
which we placed a trust blinder than that even
of our medieval ancestors. When we realize
that for so long we had been living not with
salvation, but with the most confused of Ba-
bel’s. When, with the scales remove from our
collective eyes, we see clearly how like well-
fed, well-coiffed, well-dressed sheep, chatting
politely, we were led to the slaughter. And
how we were really not so different at all from
any of God’s people who had gone before us.

The nice thing about that day is that there
will be a mother’s arms to go back to, in
which we can once again taste joy and re-
demption, And there will be a whole new lan-
guage to learn, a language so creative, so vi-
brant and so loving to speak that we will be
bafﬂed as to how we ever got conned in the
first place.

Sincerely,
Father J. Morton Biber
Pastor, St. Partick’s

Reader says
no fall break

It was with shock and horror that I read in
last Thursday’s Phi that the Executive Commit-
tee was considering giving us a fall break mid-
way through the first semester. It was not the
thought of a fall break that appalled me. It was
the butchery of our Thanksgiving break that
would have to occur in order to have a fall
break that bothered me greatly.

According to the article, there are two ways
that fall break could be arranged. One proposal

gives us a week at midtenn, but gives us only
Thanksgiving Day off. The second would give
use a long weekend at midterm (Friday —
Monday), and three days at Thanksgiving
(Wednesday — Friday) but would require that
we come to class the Saturday after Thanksgiv-
mg.

The first suggesticm is so impractical it
hardly seems worth addressing, but since some-
one must have thought it a feasible suggestion,
here it goes. The thought of only having
Thanksgiving Day off is absurd, and wouldn’t
work even for in-state students, and for out-of-
state students it would be even worse. The
scenario: leave W&L after class on Wednes-
day, by way of furious travelling reach home
sometime Wednesday night. The next day,
gobble down the turkey, and again by furious
travelling reach Lexington in time for Friday
morning classes. Question: Who would show

‘up for Friday classes? I certainly wouldn’t;

when I go home I like to stay a little longer
that, at most, 24 pressure-filled hours. This
plan should be treated with great disdain.

The other plan isn’t much better. Again,
who would come back for Saturday classes?

.What do the professors think of this idea?

Also, this option gives the student less time
overall than the present system.

I would like to point out that Lexington is
not the most accessible place in the world.
Short breaks are not a feasible option. We are
not situated in a major city like New York or
Washington where one can hop a plane or
train with relative ease. It is a lot more hassle
to get out of Lexington. It is especially hard
for the freshmen to find rides even in Novem-
ber. It would be even harder for them to find
them in October when the student register isn't
even out. Also, there is the money question. A
lot of people come from out of state and don't
have the money to purchase five round-trip
plane tickets per year.

I thought that the school was well aware of
these problems as our present vacation sched-
ule is admirably suited to deal with them. The
present system allows us sufficient time to get
home, relax for a reasonable amount of time,
and return at a leisurely pace if so desired. It
is admirably practical. Let's not change it.

Jennifer -Zambone, ’93

7

T V

 

£.

 

  

Jiy Brooke Jarabek

Staff Reporter

The Supreme Court would over-
fum the recently passed legislation
gutlawing desecration of the Ameri-
can ﬂag if the cases reaches the
‘Sigh court, Pulitzer Prize winner
Edwin M. Yoder predicted Monday.

Yoder, a columnist for the
‘Washington Post Writers Group,

ade the prediction during a speech
on “How to Burn the Flag for Plea-
sure and Politics" in Northen Audi-
torium. He is visiting Washington
a'nd Lee this week as part of the
Glass of 1963 Scholar-In-Residence
Program.
‘ Yoder said his prediction is
lgased on past court decisions and
on the constitutionality of the law. you."
C Under the First Amendment, free
speech is protected. The court has
historically interpreted this freedom
is include symbolic speech as well,
Yoder said.

"~ Yoder said that freedom of ex-

1

poses.

object.

pression has already edged itself
into law and that expression b§oad-
ens pure speech.

9 The issue of ﬂag burning entered
the political forefront this summer
on June 21 when the Supreme Court
ruled that burning an American ﬂag
is a protected form of free speech
when done for communicative pur-

to protest corporate backing of Ron-
ald Reagan for the presidential race.
One of the protestors, Gregory Lee
Johnson, burned an American ﬂag
that had been snatched from a flag
pole by a fellow demonstrator while
the protesters chanted “America, the
red, white and blue, we spit on

Johnson was arrested and con-
victed for desecrating a venerated

The case was appealed to the
Texas Court of Appeals and -over-
turned based on First Amendment

The Ring-tum Phi, November 9, 1989

Supreme Court.

Yoder pointed out.

statute] was a

burning, Yoder said,

dalism.

truck at 2 a.m.

grounds. The case then went to the

Although the courts recognize
the right to burn the ﬂag, allowing
flag burning is politically unpopular,

“I think it [changing the ﬂag
political
mechanism," Yoder said, “that the

Many who would outlaw ﬂag
argue
burning a ﬂag is not though or
speech but conduct — an act of van-

Columnist praises flag decision

Yoder said speech may be sub-
ject to time, place and manner_re-
strictions, but he said that does not
mean using ﬂags for symbolic

. speech should be outlawed in all
situations as Bork would have.

Yoder contrasted the spray-paint-
ing of national monuments, which
he considers vandalism, with ﬂag

defense

democrats deployed in order to abuse. He said ﬂags in general have

During the Republican National avoid instigating a constitutional a familiar role in symbolic expres-
Convention in 1984. demonstrators amendment to change the First sion; however, venerated monuments
charged through the streets of Dallas Amendment." are not the same as symbolic

speech. Flags have more in common
with words, pens and pencils, word
processors, paints and paint brushes
than monuments, which are symbol-
ic passively, Yoder said.

that

Yoder quoted Judge Robert Bork
as saying free speech allows expres-
sion of an opinion, but not any
means of expression. Expressing a
political viewpoint from a sound
in a residential
neighborhood or using obscenities
over public television are not ac-
ceptable means of expressing an
opinion, according to Bork.

He cites a case in which the Su-
preme Court threw out a California
statute in 1931 which made it un-
lawful to display a red ﬂag in pro-
test as evidence that ﬂags have of-
ten been used in expression.

“Why should the American ﬂag
be separated from any other ﬂag?"
he asked.

Atheism: Today’s new religion?

MY VIEW

Ely J. Cameron Humphries

We are the hollow men

We are the stuffed men

lﬁeaning together

ljleadpiece ﬁlled with straw. Alas!

— T.S. Eliot

1

Last week I described my visit to the West
Coast and how I chanced upon the American
Atheists Society Convention, at which a Berke-

y professor explained how changes in our lan-
guage pushed God, faith, and the concept of
divinity out of mainstream society, and replaced
it with the hollow core of pseudo-religious be-
lfef. He continued to demonstrate how almost
imperceptible changes in our thinking process
had removed God from the inside out, and had
léft mankind questioning whether or not any
tquth at all could be said to exist.

“My fellow Atheists, we have not yet far to
gt) until the religious leaders will question if
there even is a correct [religious] answer, some
say we have reached that point today."

4 As the speaker concluded the first half of his;

eech, the ‘entire convention exploded inia, pro-
found sense of victory. Although no one uttered
ac single word, I felt a feeling a smugness per-

eating the room as though the battle for intel-
lectual freedom had been won, and the need for
this convention was a hoax. It was at this point
tqe speaker paused, then continued more serious-
ly‘ with a grave tone in his address:

it “Yes, you celebrate inside, and I share that
jo with you. The world has nearly been
cleansed of theistic thought, but we have reached
at; turning point in our struggle. It is a turning
point which I fear is turning for the worse.

' “After three centuries of slowly watching
rdigion crumble, the organized religious move-
ments of the world are fighting back. First, they

-. e stopped using weapon of damnation. Al-
though they still claim to have it, they have

. recognized that the average man does not want

to! hear he might be going to Hell. Secondly,

w ch we have found so useful, for their own
means. They began by turning our own defini-
tions against us.

‘ “In the coming years, you will notice your
favorite words become your worst enemies. I

- would like to warn you about three such words:

Faith, Science, and Religion. I will begin with
faith, not because its theistic definition is the

most dangerous, but because their definition of
.<

1

» By Merrill Watson

thiy have adopted many of our own tactics,‘

is so very tricky.

“Atheism, by definition, means to know that
God does not exist. For the past three hundred
years we have arrogantly claimed to know the
opposite of what the other religions claim on
faith. We were the bloody fools who claimed
that one must know everything. They were quite
satisfied to maintain a reasonable amount of
certainty, then accept the rest on faith. What, my
friends, we find ourselves faced with today, is
either to admit that we can't know that God
does not exist, and thus accept His absence on
faith, or to step from our Atheistic pedestal and
admit that a good many of us are really Agnos-
tic. In either case we have to be prepared to
serve ourselves a good portion of humble pie,
because we will have to admit to the peoples of
the world that we did not know as much as we
thought we did. Furthermore, if we wish to truly
maintain the title of Atheist, we must profess to
believe in that word which most of us find so
abhorrent, faith.

“You ask, we don’t know that God does not
exist? No, no one knows if He does or does not
exist. Three hundred years ago we believed the
absolute proof of His absence was only years
away. Three hundred years later we are no clos-

_'e‘r to proving His’ absence thahnrwe were when _
our founding fathers'“f1rst asked" the question,

‘Do we lcnow God exists?’

“Always remember, we were the ones who
gave faith a bad name. Let us hope then that we
can restore its good name. Now, when religion
is attempting to inch away from faith, let us get
the jump on them, and steal it from them. It is
our best hope.

“The second of these words, science, is po-
tentially the most damaging to us. In the scien-
tific endeavor to remove God from the universe,
we have succeeded in bringing him nearer than
He ever was before. From sub-atomic particles
which by scientific definition should repel, but
instead attract, to the origins of the universe,
which we should have determined by now, but
instead conclude impossible to determine, science
has discovered a universe of more order, purpose
and design than He ever anticipated. The uni-
verse operates so meticulously that even the
concept of randomness has been discounted.
Science, which was supposed to eliminate God
from our world, has ﬁrmly entrenched Him here.

“Finally, the word religion. We, as I have
mentioned, removed it from our schools, text-
books, and such. However, we increasingly find
Atheism being classified as a religion in its own
right. This, my friends, could well spell the end
of us.

“We -lmow our dialogue well: ‘What, me

religious? No, I’m an Atheist. You're not reli-
gious are you?’ Sure, under the guise of
non—religion we have enjoyed a free ride. Teach-
ers could teach Atheism to our children. That
was there job. But if they even mentioned the
Bible, or God. Well, we’d just have their job so
quickly they couldn’t see straight. Yes, the good
old days.

“Now the tables have turned. For every.

argument for against God, there usually follows
one for God, or else our teachers aren't allowed
to mention either side. The legislators now see
Atheism as a religion and can apply the same
laws to force it out of society that we used to
force it in. The free ride is over.

“Why?

“In short, we have been far to cocky, far to
arrogant with our belief. When we should have
been caring, compassionate, and open-minded,
we actually were haughty, rude, and stubborn.
Yes, we were the ones with the truth; yes, they
were the ones with lies and faith. We made
religion an either-or proposition. Either renounce
the possibility of God, or be intellectually imma-
ture. With religion, one can, conceivably, have
both.

“Two hundred fifty years ago, the beloved

Voltaire uttered 'ecrasez l'infame,’ and the skep- «

tic movement stood at its pinnacle. The most be-
loved, respected, admired person in French soci-
ety said, ‘Crush the vermin!’ He felt it was time
to stamp out the church. At the outbreak of the
French Revolution, it was a corrupt and power-
ful instution which taught very little about God,
and a great deal about the secular values which
it was supposed to preach against. Quite simply,
it isno longer the case.

“Today, we are seen as the oppressors. We
are the ones who have blown the incredible
advantage. We are the ones who face defeat.
Man is tired of becoming the hollow men we
have turned him into. Yes, three hundred years
ago man stood ready to destroy the church.
Now, he is on the verge of destroying himself.

“My fellow Atheists, I do not corrre to salute
you. We have failed, and failed miserably. This
time, as man prepares to enter the 21st century,
I fear he will stop looking to himself for an-
swers, but once more turn his eyes upward into
the heavens, as he has for thousands of years.
No, the battle is not over. The second round of
fighting has just begun. Yet, I fear the tide is
turning against us. Just let us be thankful that
the other side was founded on the principles of
faith, hope, and charity. We may ﬂnd that we
ourselves are in greatest need of them in the
years to come."

TALKBACK

What do you think about dividing Thanksgiving break
into two shorter vacactions?

:3,

_ﬁ:\k*

In

Ward Medgen, ‘92, Dallas,
'fex.— “it’s absolutely ridicu-
lous. That’ll cut the time that I
‘ave to see my grandparents in
ﬁalf.”

1

I

Fred Shannon, ‘90, San Anto-
nio, Tex. — “You'd barely have
time to get a piece of turkey."

dents should get. ’ ’

Katherine Park, ‘90, Belaire
Beach, Fla. — “If it’s what the
students want, it’s what the stu-

GENERAL NOTES

Donaﬁons

The Intervarsity Christian
Fellowship meets on Tuesdays at
7 p.m. in Gaines Gatehouse. In
line with its fall theme of com-
munity, the group would like to
announce its support of Gladys
Steele and her ministry to the
homeless of Rockbridge County.
IV will place boxes in the dorms
and the University Center to col-
lect clothes and other goods for
a Gladys House yard sale in the
upcoming weeks. The boxes will
be there from Sunday, Nov. 12
until break. Anything contributed
would be greatly appreciated.
Anyone wishing to help in any
way can contact Sherri Brown,
Kathy Morrison, or Alice
Harrell.

Politics flick

The Politics Department will
show 12 Angry Men (1957: di-
rector-Sidney Lumet) at 7 p.m.
on Tuesday and Wednesday of
next week in room 327 of the
Commerce School. This contro-
versial essay starring Henry Fon-
da is about the impact of the
unanimity rule on democracy,
exempliﬁed in a jury trial. It is
highly recommended for pre-
law/law students.

Bridge-the-gap

Kathekon, the third year law
students, and the senior class
will be sponsoring the second
annual Bridge-The-Gap Party on
Friday, Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. in the
GHQ. All members of the third
year law class and the senior
class are invited. Beer and
snacks will be free (legal drink-
ing age required).

Careers

Monday, Nov. 20 from 5:30-

7:30 p.m. at Manufacturers
Hanover Trust Company, 270
Park Avenue, New York,

"Career Connections: New York
City" will take place. This net-
working day for seniors (full-
time employment) and under-
classmen (summer. employment
and internships) will allow stu-
dents to visit with alumni who
have employment opportunities
in many fields: banking, invest-
ments, marketing, public rela-
tions, government, sales, muse-
um and gallery work, insurance,
journalism, etc. After sign-in and
refreshments, students head to
stations labeled according to ca-
reer field and talk with alumni
who inﬂuence hiring at their or-
ganizations. Student participants
need to: 1) fill out an informa-
tion sheet at the Career Develop-
ment and Placement Office, 2)
make travel and lodging arrange-
ments, 3) plan to participate
Monday and stay an additional
day for interviews and referrals,
and 4) dress for interviews and
carry many resumes.

Women’s rush

Freshman women interested
in the upcoming Winter Rush

for the sororities must attend a
mandatory informational meeting
tomorrow. The informal meeting
will be at 4 p.m. in Evans Din-
ing Hall and is expected to last
an hour.

Hong Kong

W&L students now have the
opportunity to study in Hong
Kong without having first
studied Chinese. Under an ex-
change agreement with Chung
Chi College of the Chinese Uni-
versity of Hong Kong, .students
may undertake a full program of
courses given in English with an
option to study Chinese. This
exchange is sponsored by the
East Asian Studies Program at
W&L, and any student ‘with a
2.5 GPA and a real desire to
learn about Asia is eligible to
apply. Credits earned at Chung
Chi are considered to be the
same as if earned at W&L.

Those interested in the pro-
gram should contact Prof. Harold
C. Hill, in the East Asian Lan-
guage Center or call extension
8829. Candidates will be
selected in November.

Racism seminar

Dr. C.T. Vivian, a specialist
in the area of Black/White racial
conﬂict resolutions, will conduct
a seminar at W&L on Saturday,
Nov. 11 from 1-5 p.m. in the
DuPont Hall Auditorium. Vivian,
an ordained Baptist minister, is
founder and director of
B.A.S.I.C. (Black \ Association
Strategies and Information Cen-
ter). His seminar will focus on
the "Principles of Racism."

The seminar is sponsored by
the Black Law Students Associa-
tion, Minority Student Associa-
tion, Contact, W&L Commerce
School, and Randall Bezanson,

Dean of the Law School. There =

is no admission, and the public‘
is invited to attend. For more
information, please call Melissa
Amos at 464-4289.

Outing club

The biking section of the
Outing Club will participate in a
mountain-bike race in Durham,
N.C. on Nov. 10 and 11. Riders
at all skill levels as well as
spectators are welcome. If you
are interested, please call John
Buchanan at 463-7369. Transpor-
tation will be provided.

The environmental action
section of the Outing Club will
meet at 5:30 p.m. on Monday in

the Fairfax Lounge of the
Student Center. They plan to
continue their work on recycling
and litter control, and they plan
to discuss making environmental
education presentations at the
local schools.

The club will also sponsor an
informal discussion with Robert
Davis, visiting professor at the
law school, on Tuesday, Nov. 14
at 8:30 p.m. in room 114 of the
Student Center. Go and learn
about environmental issues
career opportunities.

Photos by Amanda Hughen

l

Willard Dumas, President of
the Executive Committee, ‘91,
New Orleans, La. - “I think
something should be done in the
fall because after midterrns most
students leave town for the
weekend and end up blowing off
a few classes. A holiday is des-
perately needed."

Preultt Hirsch, ‘92, Alexandria,
Va. — “As a freshman, I
thought it was too long to wait
two-and-a-half months before
going home.”

.

I

Little

Foster
Rock, Ark. — “I think it’s stu-
pid because longer breaks give
time to those who live out of
state to go home.”

Bowman, ‘91,

and_

; higher,”

 SPORTS

The Ring-tum’ Ph_I, _Nove_mber 9, 1989
T

  

 

By Jay Plotkln
Sports Editor

How do you react when you saw
a lot of playing time last season,
but haven’t seen as much as you
would like this season?

Last year, Phillip Sampson and
Chris Smythe shared time at quar-
terback. This year, Sampson, a se-
nior, has had a record—setting
season, and Smythe, also a senior,
hasn’t had much of an opportunity
to play.

How do you hide your time
waiting to play, Mr. Smythe?

Senior Adam Morgan and the Washington and
Lee water polo team in action earlier this season.
The Generals defeated Richmond 17-16 in a

Polo swims to Easterns

,1 By Chris Baradel

Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee water
polo team seized a berth in the
Eastern Championships by defeating
.the University of Richmond in a
remarkable triple-overtirne thriller in
the semifinals of the Southern Con-
ference water polo championships
lost Saturday.

W&L overcame a first period
injury to senior goalie David Olson
and the loss of three starters to
fouls.

The dramatic 17-16 victory over
the Spiders more than made up for
the Generals’ loss to Arkansas-Little

, Rock in the championship game 17-
:24. Only the top two teams from the
“i‘Southem Conference were guaran-
3/teed bids to the Eastern Champion-
fships, so had W&L lost to Rich-
;-mond, their fine

regular season
would have gone for naught.
' “Our whole goal has been to get
3to Easterns and place seventh or
said senior co-captain
“Shawn Copeland.

Before facing Richmond, the
Generals blew out Lynchburg 19-8

behind five goals from junior Jon

Sbar. Senior Adam Morgan had

VARNER & P L

three goals, while Perez and fresh-
man James Dunleavy had two a-
piece. Backup goaltender P.J.
Waicus, a freshman, saw extensive
playing time and recorded 11 blocks
against only ﬁve goals allowed. The
win was W&L's 20th of the season.

Against Richmond, the Generals
had to play much of the first period
with Waicus in goal after Olson's
injury, but the team still entered the
second period with a 5-3 lead,
which pleasantly surprised head
coach Page Remillard.

However, the Spiders outscored
W&L 7-2 in the second stanza, de-
spite Olson’s return to the net,
which Remillard attributed to the
fact that Richmond was shooting at
the goal at the deep end of Cy
Twombly pool where the goalie
doesn’t have the advantage of being
able to stand on the bottom. Indeed,
when the two teams switched ends
at the beginning of the third quarter,
W&L tallied seven goals to Rich-
mond’s deuce.

W&L led 14-12 entering the fi-
nal period, when foul trouble took
its toll on the Generals. Morgan got
his third personal foul and was

ejected. The same fate fell on fresh-
man Scott Strader, who had scored

Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

463-2742

three-overtime, sudden-death thriller last weekend
in the Southern Conference tournament. W&L
photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

Univertsity

1st Floor Reid Hail

MMCM

463-84481

The answer is to practice hard
so you can be ready to play when
your opportunity arises, and on

  

Saturday against Ursinus College,
Sm);the got his opportunity.

And did he ever make the most
of it.

Sampson just wasn't clicking on
all cylinders, and after missing
several open receivers, disaster
struck. On a pass intended for
senior Scott Jackson, Ursinus de-
fensive back A1 Antonello stepped
in front of Jackson to intercept the
pass. 61 yards later, Antonello
crossed the goal line with the
Bears’ third touchdown of the day.

Ursinus scored on it’s previous
two drives, both resulting from
W&L turnovers. After Sampson's
first interception, the Bears scored
on an 18-yard pass from Kevin
Meehan to Mike Cohen. On W&L's

1
V
lw

4-

Smythe shines in loss}

J
ensuing drive, tailback Kirk
Sohonage fumbled as he was iii!
and Ursinus recovered. Meehan
scored the touchdown on a five-yard
option keeper. '

Head coach Gary Fallon than
decided a change might do the
Generals well. “Phillip hasn't realfy
been on top of his game for the l t
few games. I just felt we had soriyise
receivers open, Phillip wasn’t real
sharp, and the score was 21-0. So I
decided to try Chris to see if vie
could catch a spark.” ;

Iriheriting a 21-0 deficit, Smytlie
caught fire. His first completidn
came on third and eight. It went for
20 yards to senior fullback Russell

J

E] Please see Smythe pa ‘

 
  

    

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

three goals in the game. Another
crucial loss for the Generals was
sophomore “Spider-slayer Alan Her-
rick, who was also tossed out for
his third foul. Herrick had scored
five goals and recorded six steals
before fouling out.

Richmond took advantage of
their absences to hold W&L to one
goal while scoring three of their
own. After each team scored once
in the first overtime to make the
score 16-16, seldom-used senior
Randall Pearson scored the biggest
goal of his career to win the game
in the third overtime period, which
was sudden death. “I wasn’t sur-
prised at all that the goal came
from Pearson,” said Rerriillard later.

In the championship game
against Arkansas-Little Rock, W&L
was simply overrnatched and lost
quietly by a 17-4 count. The score
was 7-2 at the half, but the Gener-
als were outscored 10-2 in the sec-
ond half. Perez (two goals) 4 and
Olson (fifteen blocks) were bright
spots for the Generals.

The Eastern Water Polo Champi-
onships will be held at the Naval
Academy in Armapolis, Md. The
game against Brown is at 1:30 Sat-
urday afternoon.

Senior Patrick Brown applied
the finishing touches to his out-
standing soccer career at W&L
with a game-winning goal
against VMI on Tuesday.

During the month of October,
Brown scored four goals, all of
which were game-winners, and
also earned two assists as the
men's soccer team posted an
October record of 7-1-2.

In the post-season ODAC
tournament played this past
weekend at Liberty Hall Field,
the senior co-captain played a
key role as the men’s soccer
team won the ODAC champion-
ship. Brown scored W&L’s goal
in Friday's 1-0 semifinal win
over Harnpden-Sydney, and as-
sisted the Generals' lone goal in
their 1-0 victory against Virginia
Wesleyan in the championship
game on Saturday.

For his accomplishments,
Brown has been named The R-
ing-tum Phi’s Athlete-of-the-
Month for October.

Brown finished the 1989 sea-
son as the ODAC’s leading scor-

ATHLETE-OF-THE-MONTH

er with eight goals and five as-
sists. For his four-year career at
W&L, Brown scored 14 goals
and dished out 22 assists.
Brown's mark of 22 assists is a
W&L record. As a freshman,
Brown set a W&L record with

 

J;

Patrick Brown

nine assists in a season, a record
he now shares with freshman
Mike Mitchem. 
Brown was also only one of
three General players to start in
all 17 games. Senior forward
Scott Levitt and sophomore Jeff
Zieger were the other two.

Head coach Rolf Piranian in
was pleased that Brown was se-
lected as the Athlete of the
Month. , ¢

“He deserves it. I haven't
coached a ﬁner soccer player or I
athlete’ in (my) 14 years (as!
W&L’s coach),” Piranian said.

Overall, Brown said he had *
“a good season.” Preferring to 3
focus the attention on the team,
he said, “We had a slow start '‘
and lost a few games we should
have won, but the team played
well at the end of the season." F

Brown, who spent the first
half of the surrirner working in a *
restaurant in Hilton Head, S.C., ,
said he prepared for the 1989
season with “a lot of ninning." V

“I also played some soccer
when I returned home,” he
added.

The 5-9, 160-pound senior, a
graduate out of Lovett High
School in Atlanta, Ga., is not
sure what lays ahead for him
after graduation, but said he
wants to “enjoy what I'm '
doing.” -

Congratulations to Patrick I
Brown, The Ring-tum Phi’s Ath- p
lete-of-the-Month for October.

0

in -0% C ! v

THUNDE RBIRD

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL
or INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Glendale, Arizona 85306 USA

 

A representative will be on campus
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15 , 1989

to discuss
GRADUATE STUDY

Our Mother
Who Art In Heaven ??

Join uslas we meet to discuss the feminine images of
God. Open to all women students, faculty, and staff of
the W&L community. Wednesday nights at 6:30 p.m.,

Arlington Women’s Center.

For more information call 463-38 /'?

 

   

Come to your Printing Center for: V  LEXINGTON
. ICS
- FLYERS & POSTERS - Custom RESUMES & letters Interviews may be scheduled at VIRGlNIA'S srenso SPECIALIST SHOP FOR PAPPAGM-Lo
- Copying 8. printing - Transparencies ', A _ ,
- Programs - Brochures 8. Booklets CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT Rags, gg’S‘.'II'5N Ladies
- Newsletters - Scanning _ 3&9 CWD Shoes Cjothing
- KEF ’ .

{L ~ I“ ‘ SIGNET SEQANCE and Accessories

The Printing Center has added a Macintosh Iix, Scanner, and Laser- - FF ILIATED  OUNSELING HERAPISTS K[_|pscH NAKAMICH.

Writer II to its service. The Macintosh will read MS-DOS disks. We can _ ALL COMPONENTS PRE TESTED
add scanned images to add to your posters or tiyers. Stop by and pick CONFUSED? when others demands and expectations of _ BUYER PROTECWN pm, _
up a pamphlel ab°”‘ ""5 equlpmenvs °apab"mes' you conflict with your own needs and desires, you may feel con- 3 ,°Nf§T'gg;"sLé*R3’g'gg§:¢E”;MENT
fused, angry and resentful. It may be that it is time to stop neglec-
ting yourself. Professional help is one answer. Sometimes you

need more than a friend.

- WE SERVlCE' MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood “
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

   

Sometimes you need

Susan M. Sisler, LPC
CALL 703-463-3305

more than a friend.

6 Eastwashington Street
Lexington, VA 24450

Mr. ‘R
Wan».

Ft. Lewis Shooting Preserve
Oct. 1, 1989 thru March 31, 1990
Pheasants — 4 birds released

$65 per hunter
Guide and dug available

 

 

3
 methinmdfifferent . . . '

 
        

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee I-Ii Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

RT. 5, BOX 379
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

           

   
    
      

Fort Lewis Lodge
Millboro, VA 24460

John Cowden (703) 925-2314
Located in Bath County - one hour drive from Lexington.

 
 

 
    
    
  

1-800-768-LEHl

 

703-463-3478

Ideal Barber Shop

Welcome back to W&L
" Come visit us
We also have a ladies haircutter

 

Super-X Drugs

    

 
 

At Super-X Your Prescription
Needs Are Our Most Important Business.

 
 
    
  

22 S. Main St.
Under lst American Bank

   

    

R es 1 a u fa ,1 I I '  College Shopping Square 463-71264‘,
. . 2 «iii 2 .
Beginning Tuesday, November 14th E “ E
 ,  HARVEST SALE!
  E R.E. Lee Memorial Church 5
3.00 _ 5.00 P M g Sunday, Nov. 12 3 Selected Books 1/2 Price
' ° ' ° E 8:30 and 10:30 a.m. Holy Eucharist 2 ‘ ' '
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday E Undergraduate Student Dinner/Bible Study  NOW U1 Thanksglvlng
E 6:00 ¥.m._l:n the Parish Library   Bookstore
30 N‘ Mai“ St’ 463_3020 E GIl;:sSltit)pl(l)f' siuliieilésiérlsetlfrgfgsaht 3 Remember We ‘re Open Sat 10-2
Lexington  Topic: God’s Unconditional Love 
If

,4’. .... .'.¢‘ -.4:-n.«.—. . ;-

 6-..; ,. 'a~.—,. . -- «  , , «. ........... ...2 . . ,. .  . _. ._ ...... ‘..\... .

§'

«pa»-&~

‘£

§‘43.a~$45-44‘

The Ring-tum Phi, November 9, 1989

 

Georgetown brings
bad memories of ‘88

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

Thinking about this week's W&L-Georgetown football game got me
thinking about something else I tend to associate with Georgetown, the
1988 Olympic basketball tournament.

It was a year ago when John Thompson led the United States into
Olympic play with what was supposed to the best basketball team our
amateur ranks had to offer that year.

Or was it the best team that the U.S. could ﬁeld? Hardly.

When Hersey Hawkins, the starting shooting guard went down with
a knee injury his replacement was Vemell “Bimbo” Coles from
Virginia Tech, who is a good player but had no business being on the
team. Thompson said Coles made the team largely on the grounds that
earlier in the college season, he led the Hokies to an upset over
Thompson’s Hoyas. Taking nothing away from Coles’ talent, but he
shouldn’t have been on the team. Neither should Ricky Berry, Brian
Shaw or Charles Smith (G‘town). All had good talent, but there were
better players out there to represent our country.

A look at some other possible shooting stars that probably
(definitely) should have been on the team: Rex Chapman. The streak
shooter was cut by Thompson because he shot poorly in the tryouts.
Poor shooting or not, Chapman still can keep up in a long distance

shooting contest with the best of them. He should have been on the

team.

Steve Kerr. The Arizona point guard not only led the nation in
tliree-point accuracy at 60 percent, but Kerr only turned the ball over
once a game. His shooting and ball handling played major roles in
'Arizona’s being ranked No. 1 for the better part of the season.

Another notable absence on the team was someone named Danny
Ferry, who was All—ACC for three years at Duke. Not good enough
for Thompson. Although Ferry sustained a small injury in the tryouts,
he would have been more than healthy by the time the team left for
Seoul. Ferry also would have added another three-point threat.

The last player cut was another Arizona superstar, Sean Elliott. At
_6’8", Elliott could handle the ball and shoot like a guard (another
three point threat), but was also strong enough to play inside with the
big men.

‘And how about Stacey King, who developed into one of the best
inside players in the last two years at Oklahoma. The 610” lefty can
score in a number of ways as well as play tough inside defense.

Hey John, don't you think it might be tough to defeat a team of
Kerr, Chapman, Ferry, Danny Manning and David Robinson with J.R.
Reid, Elliott, Hawkins and rebounding machine Jerome Lane coming
off the bench along with Charles Smith (Pitt.), King, Pervis Ellison
and Dan Majerle. Manning, Reid, Smith, Ellison and Majerle were all
on the team.

Sounds like a pretty tough team to beat. Tell me I’m wrong.

  
 
     
       
 
    

  

George’s
Hairstylist 1

_136 Varner Lane
I)ll‘L‘CII)' bchind Leggc-tt's
, , 463-3975
W e carry l\c,\:\'us. Redkcn & Paul Mitchell

Open‘-.E'v1enings" ‘~  
Mon.-Thurs..,ti|I 7:00_.:p.m.
~ 1». “I  4:‘:-

IS ENROLLING
IN ARMY ROTC
DIFFERENT
FROM ENLISTIIIIG?

Few times are you given the
chance to try something for
two years without obligation.
Army ROTC is one of them.

* Your freshman and sopho-
more years are an introduction
into the life of an Army officer.
You’1l attend classes that
are taught by full-time Army
officers who'll train you to
become a leader. Teach you
ethics. Land navigation. Small
unit tactics. And help you de-
velop the initiative to take
charge. —

.3’
begins at

SMYTHE

from page 4

of the day, which ties a school
record, held by among others
Sampson, brought the score to 34-
28, but Ursinus prevailed 40-28.

Crosby. After Smythe scrambled for
11 yards and another first down, the
Generals were well inside Ursinus
territory.

After keeping the ball himself on

, two option plays to get to the eight,

Smythe found a wide open Bob
Martin for W&L’s first touchdown
on the day. It was the senior tight
end’s third touchdown of the year.
After another Ursinus touchdown
extended the lead to 28-7, Smythe
got the Generals moving again.
Crosby carried for 19 yards on first
down, and after a 15 yard penalty

against the Bears, W&L was at the
32. Smythe found junior Craig Irons
for a gain of 12’and then kept
himself for a 12-yard run to get to
the eight. Smythe threw his second
touchdown pass of the day to Jack-
son, who had to adjust and catch
the ball after it had been tipped by
an Ursinus defender.

With the score 28-14, the W&L
defense forced Ursinus to punt after
just three plays. W&L took over on
its own 44, and Smythe wasted no
time. He threw a strike to a wide
open Jeff Kreis on a post pattern,
and the sophomore hauled in the
pass and waltzed into the end zone
with a 56-yard touchdown to make
the score 28-21.

Ursinus scored first to open the
second half as Meehan found his
favorite target, Jeff Hodge for a 16-
yard score to push the lead back to
34-21.

Undaunted by the Bears’ quick
score, Smythe promptly brought the
Generals back to within one
touchdown. On second down from
his own 28, Smythe rolled to his
right and lofted a pass down the
sideline. Kreis, possibly the fasted
W&L player, left his defender
behind as he caught the ball in
stride for his second score of the
day, this one a 72-yard touchdown.

Smythe's fourth touchdown pass

W&L mounted a late rally as
Smythe was able to get the Generals
deep into Ursinus territory, and
actually had a touchdown pass to
Irons called back because of a
holding penalty.

On the day, Smythe set school
records for most yards passing in a
game with 401, breaking a record
Sampson set against Randolph-
Macon earlier this year, and the
total offense record in a game with
455, smashing the record set by the
legendary Gil Bocetti in 1949, in
just three quarters of action.

“Chris’ performance on Saturday
reaffirmed our confidence in him
and his ability to come in and rally
the team, and if Phillip struggles
again this week, I won’t hesitate to
use Chris,” said Fallon.

On Saturday the Generals will
look to even their season record at
5-5 as they travel to Washington,
D.C. to take on Georgetown. Game
time is set for 1:00.

Washln gton and Lee
Ursinus

02170
1414120

-- 28
--40

UC-Cohen 16 pass from Meehan (Mishcr kick)
UC-Meehan 5 run (Misher kick)

UC-Aritoriello 61 interception return (Misher
kick)

W&L-Martin 7 pass from Smythe (Quayle kick)
UC-Hodge 26 pass from Meehan (Misher kick)
W&L-Jackson 8 pass from Smythe (Quayle kick)
W&L-Kreis 56 pass from Smythe (Quayle kick)
UC-Hodge 16 pass from Meehan (run failed)
W&L-Kreis 72 pass from Smythe (Quayle kick)
UC-Hodge 41 pass from Meehan (pass failed)

Individual Rushing
W&L-Smythe 13 carries-54 yards, Sohonage 9-
29, Robiriett 5-4, Crosby 3-23, Sampson 1-10,
Jackson 1-0, Kreis 0-2. UC-Parker 21-92, Lovallo
23-70, Williams 2-4, Meehan 3-21.

Individual Passing
W&L-Sampson 4 completions-10 attempts-2
interceptions-38 yards, Smythe 22-47-0-401. UC-
Meehan 18-27-2-305.

Individual Receiving
W&L-Irons 12 catches-194 yards, Martin 4-35.
Jackson 3-31, Krcis 2-128, Crosby 2-32, So-
honage 2-16. UC-Hodge 8-145, Smith 5-42,
Engro 2-29, Choen 2-55, Lovallo 1-24.

7b/Y DC & A0309?)

Lincoln

Memorial

Pam Simpson
,- 463-3434
I Melanie Fure

J 463-5360

Rckbridgeley Chapter of

I e

National Organization for women

You don't have to make a
commitment until your junior
year. If you dodecide to be-
come an officer in the United
States Army, you’ll receive ad-
vanced training in the leader-
ship skills it takes to succeed.

And when you graduate,

a college degree. With this
competitive edge, you can in-

crease your chances for suc- ii '
1

cess either in a civilian career
while fulfilling your commit-
ment in the U.S. Army Reserve
or National Guard, or as a ca-
reer officer in the active Army.

Army ROTC. You can try it
out for two years, but if you
stick with it, the payback can
last a lifetime.

j Ms

‘Q

'4‘ H

ARMY ROTC
RESERVE OITICERSTRRININO CORPS
TIE SMIIRTEST COLLEGE

COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

Contact Capt. Ramos
463-8485

.‘

F: .
you'll have earned an Army 5 
Lieutenant’s gold bar as well as  V  ,

.1 .~.':‘;. ~,-z 'f'1
F /

Vﬁgjif
  1 C
.'-i- . \

'l‘~"'

 
 
       

'IUrKeY-

Isjustaround

r'¢‘r”.-' I1‘ "119 ‘I

ma

corner!

   
 

    
 

        
     
 
    
    
      
     
  
  
      

\

Fanii

Vanda

‘I at’ is/,€'.LﬂFaac{ .59;-V/cell
novenzbcr/3 ,/-759

\.\’rH4NKfGzviNG /~15»/q
\ Roast turkey

St Ia" , -- A .
Same: fa; dmncr '

       
      
 

WOO - 6"/5' PM

Oaked 5uFf'et I-(am
*'I°I'1¢v'iad¢ Pressing
Ch¢f‘I7unn'9 Q/bid Gravy
Whipped Potatoes
\r5utP¢r¢d Green Peas
I Whole Kernel Corn
1 dot Rolls u4/ Butter
Pumpkirs P:'¢
/‘1"n¢¢ Pleat Pie
\4j:p!¢ Cider

 
    
   

\l.N

l ' " //J/,.

 

   

From Staff Reports

The season is drawing to a
close for the Washington and
Lee cross country learns.

Last Saturday, both the
men's and women’s teams con-
tinued to enjoy the success they
found in the regular season as
they competed in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
meet held at Roanoke College in
Salem.

'I'ne_ men used a strong team
run to lock up second place.
7,Sa.id head coach John Tucker,
“The way things came out,
’Lyi;ichburg ran as a team,
finishing one through five, and
then there was W&L running as
a team. It was great to see four
W&L run.ners‘coming in as a
group and place where they did
[seven through 10]."

The Generals were paced by
sophomore Lee Parker, who
continues to improve -on his
finishes from earlier in the’
 Freshman ‘Bo Hannah
-  gllidwards, another
minute were the next two
 ﬂ
* V _  women's side, juniors
Cecilyiyuan. and Shawn Wen
r contirirsed on  successful
 ways as they pﬂitédi the team to
_,'a second place finish by

  
  
 

 eighth and ninth
 respectively; ’ A
’ Similar“ ft to the men, the

 pack of runners
 nearf:-the top’ to win enough

 

 SPORTS NOTEBOOK

points  second. Behind,

Tynan and Wert came juniors
Heather ‘Jenkins and Laura
Dodgy. _sophomore Jetmy Nasser ’
and jumor Pat Lopes to givg the
Generals six runners in the top
16.

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee vol-
leyball team closed out its sea-
son this weekend with a fourth-
place finish in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament,
an improvement over the fiftli-
place finish in the 1988-89 sea-
son.

The Generals’ were faced
with a tough opening match
against Emory and Henry, who
had beaten W&L in a previous
regular season match. Coming
from a 7-1 deﬁcit in the decisive
third game, the Generals won
15-11 after splitting the first two
by identical scores of 15-8.

In the Generals’ other tourna-
ment matches, they lost to East-
ern Mennonite, 10-15, 13-15,
and defeated Randolph-Macon,
Womaii’s College 15-8, 15-3 to

earn it berth in the toumament
semifinals.

The Generals lost to Bridge-
water in the semifinals 13-15, 4-
15, 4-15, and to Sweet Briar 15-
8, 8-15, 13-15, in the conso-
lation match.

The Generals’ finished the
season posting a 9-18 record.
with a 5-4 record in ODAC
competition.

$1.00 OffYour  Purchase

11 S. Randolph St., Lexington

464-4050

Open noon until 9:30 p.m.
Monday through Saturday

 

26 South Main Street
Robert E. Lee Hotel Bldg.

ATTENTION SKIERS

On campus marketing reps.
needed for American Ski
Association. Have fun and enjoy
ski perks while earning great

money. Call Vera at (301) 268-
3543 or leave your name and
number at 1-800-525-7669.
Great money maker for organiza-
tions!

ﬁe:  
**:*"t=*iLeXingt0’n "1;1gh‘tln‘g *

We have Study Lamps, Table Lamps, and Floor Lamps.
Come by!

Lexington, Va. 24450-2523 _
__ (703) 463-9338 /"WW K"bY

 

   
    

  '1

GEXINGTON

 
 

St. Patrick’s Church
Mass Schedule:

Sat., 5:00 p.m.
Suii., 8:00 a.m.
10:30 a.m.

 

Wed., Nov. 15
Thanksgiving Food Drive

All volunteers please meet at
church at 3:30 pm.

   

Aerobics  Karate
Weights
We Make Fitness Fun!

16 E. Nelson St., Lexington

.  .2 .s2~,

CLASSIFIED

4.-r

HELP WANTED
Jobs in Alaska

 

Weatherby® °Remington@

  

Browning® 0 Mossberg®
We will not be undersold
by anyone!

FREE

Scope Mount & Bore
Sighting with purchase.

Best prices on Hunting
Equipment & Clothing too!

]‘[UNTEIQ(3Si1UN'l‘l2IT&$
V 18 E. Nelson St.
Lexington 463-1800

HIRING Men - Women 0 Summerl
Year Round. CANNERIES, FISHING,
LOGGING, TOURISM, CONSTRUCTION
up to $600 weekly, plus FREE room
and board. CALL NOW! Call refundable.
1-206-736-0775, Ext.

AVAILABLE

'4iv.im_\~r-u-'-u-(r....‘ ngurucq-cups r...

    

WIN REDSKINS
TICKETS!

The SPCA has on sale now raffle
tickets at $5.00 each for the November
20th game between The Washington
Redskiiis and the Denver Broncos.

SPCA board members and at the SPCA
Shelter located on Campbell Lane.
Shelter hours are Monday through Sai-

urday 10:00 A.M.-12:00 and 1:00
P.M.—3:00 PM. Please call 463-5123
for more inforinzition or 463-4982 alter
5:00p.ni.

Drawing for the raiflle will be
November 11 at 10:00 AM. at the
SPCA shelter.

 

‘A School during the 1950s),

  

W&L|FE

The Rlng-tum Phi, November 9, 1989

Milton Colvin: politics and parachutes

By Alisha Johnson
Staff Reporter

EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the
first of a series of articles proﬁling
professors at Washington & Lee
University. The articles will appear
every other week on the W&Ltfe
P085 5

A teacher proﬁle is a teacher
proﬁle. That is, of course, unless
the professor just so happens to be
a certain Milton Colvin, World War
II parachute demolitionist.

A third generation professor
(his father taught in the W&L Law
Colvin
has been teaching politics at Wash-

iiiigton and Lee since 1961. He is

currently specializing in U.S. foreign
policy and government, but he has
also taught US. defense policy in
the past.

Colvin received his education at
the Landon School in Washington,
D.C., and Yale University before he

was called to serve in World War II
as the commander of a demolition
section of the 509th Parachute
Infantry. He fought in Italy, France,
Belgium and Germany. After contin-
uing his studies at Yale University,
Colvin received his bachelor’s de-
gree in international relations in
1948. He was a dean’s list student,
was active in the Yale Political
Union and Zeta Psi Fraternity and
played baseball. Colvin has main-
taincd his ties to Yale by serving on
the school's alurrmi board by inter-
viewing prospective students.

Colvin recieved a doctorate de-
gree in history and anthropology
from Heidelberg University in Ger-
many in 1953.

Married to the former Maria
Countess von Kielmansegg, Colvin
is the father of five children, who
have also decided to teach on the
university level, thus becoming
members of the fourth generation of
professors in the Colvin family.

Before joining the \‘.’&L faculty,

wmJ1z  '

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. The Night of the Mary Kay Commandos, by Berke Breathed.

(l-“l'E;§'°W”:_§7-9..5.l-. “.'.‘.°.'.e, .EJ.‘.’9’" _C,°,‘¥C’_’Y_ °,a'I‘.’.°“~°"

C . The Calvin and Hobbes Lazy Sunday Book, by Bill

A10.

. Trevayne, by Robert Ludlum. (Bantam, $5.95.)

The probing of a "hidden government" within the Government. 7

. The Cardinal oi the Kremlin, by Tom Clancy. (Berkley. $5.95.)
The rescue of an American secret agent.

Watterson. (Andrews & McMeel, $9.95). Collected cartgns%V

.7 The Prehistory of the Far Side, by Gary Larson.

(Andrews & McMeel, $12.95.) Larson's notes and isl<eﬁtches.mV

N . Yukon Hot, by Bill Watterson (Andrews at McMeel, $6.95.)

The latest Calvin and Hobbes cartoons. 7 W _ Wﬂ i

. Breathing Lessons, by Anne Tyler. (Berkley, $5.50) An ordinary
married couple discovers how extraordinary their lives really are/. i

. The Dance of Anger, by Harriet Goldhor Lerner. (Perennial,

$8-95-l.G_‘l':’:'9[ improving. women‘? Personal r'.~='.at'°n.~°:Wi=s—; -.

. So Worthy my Love, by Kathleen E. Woodiwiss.

(Avon, $19:95,)liistoricalirorriance set in England. 7 W 

Codependent no More, byWMelody Beattie.
(Hazelden,  Solving your own problems.’

rumpnoa or in. Climatic bl my-r Education lvom mmzm» supoloa by .uie9e stoves mro..9no.ri the Uxlmly Souemoei is 2999

New Er Recommended

A personal selection 01 Kalhy Anderson Univ of Caliloiriia Bookstore. San Diego

hopes and dreams as adults.

ol short stories on feminist issues.

The Yellow Wallpaper and oiiier Writings; 7 I 7 C
by Charlotte Perkins Gilman. (Bantam, $4.50.) Collection

Maggie's American Dream, by James P. Comer, MD.
(NAL/Plume, $8.95.) The life and times of a black family,
from segregation to flickering hope.

Born Brothers, by Larry Woiwode. (Penguin. $8.95.) _
Details the discoveries of their childhood and explores their

ASSOCMTION OF AMERICAN RUBLISHERS/NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES

 

DO IT

llili@llﬁll@liDiillW@1@lliil@$$

11:30 p.m. - 2 a.m. Fridays
Music, games and prizes

Come see our new bar and lounge
with an extended menu,
billiards and darts!

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of

Routes 11 and 64
464-2695

Colvin taught at Montana State Uni-
versity, the University of Chicago
and Vanderbilt and was a visiting
professor at the National War Col-
lege in Washigton, in Gottingen,
Germany, in Vienna, Austria, and at
University College in Oxford, En-
gland.

“Washington and Lee has a fine
reputation for its undergraduate
school,” said Colvin about one of
the reasons he came to W&L. “l
have always preferred to teach un-
dergraduates because they are not
intimidated and have more curiosi-
ty.” He also said W&L has a very
friendly and competent staff with
which he has enjoyed working.

Colvin is now teaching a
reduced load under the university's
phased retirement program, which
allows senior professors teach a re-
duced load for two extra years.

Around this time next year, Col-
vin plans to be doing a few of his
favorite hobbies, such as relaxing
and writing. Cturently he is work-

 

ing on a non-fiction book on inter-
national politics, titled Neutrality.
He said he enjoys sailing and ﬁsh-
ing at his summer home in Montana
on the Flathead Lake, as well as
tree farming here in Virginia about
ten miles outside of town and ski-

ing — “very slowly” he said —
during the winter.

“C

Standard 10% Discount
With Student l.D.

Right

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

C.E. Hardy Jeweler

35 S. Main Street
463-4121

   
 

Get LOOOOOPED -

On the corner of Hip and Cool
For Hunter’s Birthday!

Friday, November 10th

 
 

 

  

    
    

W&L Weekly Calendar

November 10 to November 27

H 
Registration for Winter Term ena.
upi Elhics Institute (iiirmgn Nov. I2).
All Day CD&R Video Viewing: Rename. lnuviewing. CD&P Oﬂice.
8 pm. LEGAL ETHICS LECTURE: “A Nlhn d‘ Livia." Robert ER. Huntley. counsel, Hutlbn &
Williams, former W&L . Moot Cultlttlln.  Hill. Ptlbli: invited.

I ~ 5 pm. SEMINAR: “Principles of Rx:isIII." C.T. Vivian. du.Ponl  Public invited.
AWAY ATHLE11C EVENT: FOOTBALL: Geomeuwn Univutity.
 ﬂﬂ
ts p.m. FAIR CONCERT: University-" khidae Symphony Ckcban. Lee Chmel.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT:  : V.M.I. Keycbl Invihlhml.
 mﬂ
4 pm. CDAR Interviewing Workshop. Room 109. Univasixy Cans.
 

4 pm. CD&.P. Job Search/Navipru Workshop. Room I09, Univasiay Cutter.

7 pm. POLITICS FILMIFEST: Twelve Angry Men (USA. 1957). Room 327. Commune School.

7:30 pm. UNIVERSITY LECTURE: "Chile: Aha I5 Ya'Iol'DictIaIhip." J. David Plka.W&L history
department Norlhcn  University Libruy. Public ‘mired.

 

7 p.m. MFJTS SWIMMING: Generals vx. V.M.l. Twmibly Pool.

7 pm. WOMEN'S SWIMMING: Gemnls vs. Randolph-Macon Woman’: College. Twombly Not

7 pm. POLITICS FILMFEST: Twelve Angry Men (USA. 1957). Roan 327, Commune School.

I-4p.m. 1rsr.ecoNr=5RENcia"AmsmdeCol1ceeCuuirmuixFiuncri:imMnprrent'

Ncnhen Auditorium. University Libra-y. Public invited.
FRIIZALEQXEMIEKJI
'l'|nnksgjving lloliday begins.
All Day SWIMMING (MAW): Division III Din]  Tivunhly Pool.
7:30 pm. BASKETBALL: Tipolt‘ Tourmrnent: Ganaﬂs vs Methodist. Warner Cents.
All Day SWIMMING (MAW) Division III Dual Meet ('.‘IunpIon:hip.1‘wornhly Pool.
2 pm. BASKETBALL: Tip-Off Tournament: Muhodin vs Salisbury Sun. Wuna Center.
All Day SWIMMING (M&W): Division III but Meal  Twornhly Pool.
2 pm. BASKETBALL: Tip-Oﬂ’ Tourruncnt: Gaunt: vs. Salisbury Sue.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: BASKETBALL Emory Univaxily.
I 
Thanksgiving Day.
MQEm 

'I'hnnk:g'ving holimy mas. Classes name.

EXHIBITIONS

DUPONT GALLERY: “P" ' . having: and Pastels by Williln I. Whit” (through Nov. 15). Galley hours are
9|.m.to5p.m. MmdayrM>ughFridny.Aitn‘uicuiIfree.
UNIVERSITY LLBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: "nae Enemies olBooks" (though November).

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: "Plnlld I.leIl:n—PIIl|d lives: The Conelpollklee of
l4aeuIdIai:knn"(thruughluiimy). HoursIe9un.In5 p.m. Moinhytlxrrioglnlirihy.

COMMERCE SCHOOL, MAIN LOBBY AND READING ROOM: "Painlinﬁ by Krlhleul Olmll."

/

3rd Year Law Students

And Seniors

The 2nd Annual

“Bridge the Gap”

Party

will be this
Friday, Nov. 10th

at the GHQ

8 p.m.

.\\\

Refreshments will be Free
(Legal Drinking Age Required)

Don’t Drink and Drive.

 
 

 
  
 

  
     
   

 

 

