Arch
€3>7a.75Ff,i
R551-

\/. /06‘

V20. .!

VOLUME CVI, No. l
MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

T/ee iieeeieeet eeiee of Washington eeee’ Lee Ueeeeerreh ieieee 7897 (D

So LONG, LEE’s ASHES

City council
spot holds
Elrod hopeful

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

MimiElrod intendstovie forthevacant spotinLexington’s
City Council when current council member Pat Mayerchak
resigns. Elrod is Washington and Lee’s Director of Summer
Scholars and widow of former president John Elrod.

The citywill not hold elections butwillbe accepting letters of
interestintheposition1mtil5p.m.
on May 15. Lexington’s charter
requires that the coimcil choose
its new member. In ameeting on
June5,theoouncilwiIlchooseﬁurn
the pool of those who have ex-
pressed written interest.

City Manager Jon
Ellestad said that, in addition
to Elrod, another woman has
verbally indicated interest and
he is, “anticipating at least
two letters of interest,” he
said.

Elrod wants to serve on
the city council because she
is, “interested in government
and how it works.”

Elrod has been involved in different organizations in Lex-
ington and is now interested in breaking into city government;
The variety of organizations in which Elrod has served include
the Rockbridge Mental Health Association, The Rockbridge
Area Community Services Board and Project Horizon

Elrod is, “very interested in how land is used in the city,
and in the budget process and how funds are spent,” she
said. “Because the General Assembly has made cuts, the city
has few choices-—it’s a matter of what ca.I1 be cut with a
limited atfect on the population.”

Elrod has been a Lexington resident since 1984 and
said that she, “wants to serve the citizens of this commu-
nity in that way and would look forward to working with
those people and Ellestad and the mayor.”

.  ELROD, PAGE 2

Local sunless tanning salon does not follow state regultio

SREY.-\ BANERJEE / T/re RirIglimP/71
ELROD

jar BROOKS / The Ring-mm Pin’
approximately 100 years old had been slated for cutting for nearly four years and have
been dead for two. They posed a risk to the lawn and Lee Chapel. Two 25 foot
Sycamores replaced the removed trees.

I

IF A TREE FALLS WHEN NO STUDENTS ARE LISTENING, DO WE HEAR Ir? Students returning
from Spring Break might have noticed a slight change in the landscape. Two Ash
trees were cut down over the last undergraduate break. The trees, thought to be

BY ALLISON PERRY
SENIOR ST.\l*'l" \‘\"RlTER

Three Rockbridge area tanning
salons stay busy keeping local resi-
dents and students a golden bronze,
no matter what the season. And the
ﬁnancial cost is minimal. But the long
term costs may be high.

A study by The American Cancer
Society shows that “people 35 or
younger who used the beds regularly
had a melanoma risk eight-fold higher
than people who never used tanning
beds.”

In addition, tanners may put them-
selves at more risk if a taming salon
is not up to regulation standards.

Beyond Video and The Tannery
are located within a block of each
other in Lexington. Paradise Isle has
occupied more than one location on
Main Street in Buena Vista.

The local salons try to keep their
prices competitive. And it only takes
a few tanning sessions to get a good
base tan. ‘

A person tanning can buy one
session for $5 at The Tannery and Be-
yond Video. Paradise Isle charges $6
for a single session.

But Beyond Video is the only sa-
lon that does not follow all of the state
regulations. Beyond Video does not
provide eyewear except through sale.
Even then, a customer must ask for

the eyewear. The employees do not
mention the eyewear to the custom-
ers.

Passed in 1990, the Code of Vir-
ginia, Title 59.1-3 10.5, section B says,
“Before each use of a tanning device,
the operator shall provide the cus-
tomer with properly sanitized protec-
tive eyewear that protects the eyes
from ultraviolet radiation and allows
adequate vision to maintain balance.”

Attorney Tom Winn, with
Woods, Rogers, and Hazlegrove,
PL.C., said “shall” means the owner
must provide the customer with
eyewear. The word “shall” allows for
no loop holes.

The Tannery and Paradise Isle

both provide sanitized protective
eyewear for each tanning unit. Cus-
tomers are also required to clean their
own beds at Beyond Video.

“I got creeped out by the fact that
it is in a video store,” junior Maren
Garval said. “And the whole idea of
people cleaning their own beds is kind
of sketchy.”

Beyond Video would not com-
ment on its practices.

There is currently little regulation
of tanning beds and tanning salons.
The FDA requires a tanning bed user
to wear protective eye goggles. There
are also several federal regulations for
advertising of equipment and tanning
lotions. But state regulations for tan-

Management c ass scores with ad campaign

BY KYLE WAss '
.-\SSOCl.\'l'E liDlTOR

Washington and Lee students from the Management
303 class traveled to Charlotte, N.C. this weekend to compete
regionally and present their advertising plan for the Toyota
Matrix to judges from the American Advertising Federation
(AAF), and potentially move on to a Los Angeles competi-
tion in June. The group placed second in the region.

ThisistheﬁrstyearthatWashingtonandLeehashada
chapter of the AAF, and they are now involved in the National
Student Advertising Competition Challenge to “present a recom-
mendation to Toyota forimplementing a special Matrix marketing
and communication strategy [to target] the youth market. . .the
campaignobjectiveistore-energizeMatrixinﬂiemarketp1aoeWit;h
fIeshideasthatwﬂlrevitalizeconsumerinterest,”accordingtothe
AAF’s website. This year’s corporate sponsor is Toyota Matrix.
Atterregional competitions, sixteen colleges ﬁomacross the coun-
try are selected to present their campaigns to a “panel of industry
executives at the AAF National Conference.” Five Washington
and Lee students were selected as group leaders by the class.
These students — Mark Barker, Kelly Sugarman, Grant Dragan,
Sarah Sturtz and Beth Creasey — competed in Charlotte for a
chance to go Los Angeles in June for the National Competition.
There, they made a 20-minute presentation on their advertising
campaign forjudges ﬁomtheAAF aswellasrepresentativesﬁom
Saatchi & SaatchiAdver1ising. May White said the ﬁrm is,
“one of the best advertising ﬁrms in the world”

Washington and Lee’s presentation placed second in the
region, coming in ahead of last year’s regional winner, and
competing against the University of North Carolina Chapel
Hill, the University, the University of South Carolina, the Uni-
versity of Virginia, North Carolina State University, Wﬂliarn
and Mary, and Fayetteville Technical Community College. One
of the marketing professors, Professor Amanda Bower, said
that “the closeness of the race was emphasized prior to the
announcements of the winners, and the judges needed twice

the traditional deliberation time to ﬁnally determine a winner.”
Once UVA was armounced as the winner of the competition,
Washington and Lee students received praise from the repre-
sentatives at Saatchi & Saatchi, who said they were going to
use one of W&L’s techniques in the future. According to
Bower, judges also said that “most of the people in their own
agencies don’t present as well as our students.” ,

Students in the Management 303 class, taught by
Professor Bower and Professor MacDonald, and ofﬁcially
titled Integrated Marketing Communications, came up with
this presentation for advertising the Toyota Matrix to a
target market — 20-to-30-year-olds, the rules speciﬁed. First,
work began by “researching who actually was buying the
Matrix so we could better understand their buying pat-
terns and general lifestyles,” said Management student
William Litton. The class came up with the slogan “Give
New Meaning,” as well as the idea that the Toyota Matrix
gives consumers “Room to Move” in various ways. Litton
said that the class further “developed ﬁrnny deﬁnitions
for regular words, such as Tailgating, Garage Band, and
Therapy. . .our sarcastic deﬁnitions provide humor but also
develop a sort of novelty for consumers to follow through-
out the campaign as they wonder what word Matrix will
spoof next.” Bower said that the “students were taught to
do account planning, which is a relatively new approach
to performing research ingadvertising, and is a very new
approach for ad agencies in the U.S.”

The Toyota Matrixproject gave the class a chance to
focus the entire term on one project, and study all aspects
of the process, “from surveys to industry analysis, photo
shoots to test drives, late nights at computers with take-
out Chinese, and one lucky member of the team making a
mad dash to Roanoke to get our plansbook in just in time,”
said Management student Katie F rusti.

Kelly Sugarman called the group’s performance “re-
ally impressive,” and Bower said she is “so proud [she]
can’t stand it.”

No decision made about
Spring Term, calendar

Administrators and faculty
are still debating the ﬁrture of
Spring Tenn and W&L’s current
Imdergraduate acadmic calendar.
Burish said no decision was made
during the undergraduate spring
break “Facultyand administrators
are collecting information on vari-
ous calendar options that have
been identiﬁed,” he said ‘‘I arnnot
leaning toward any solution; I am
looking forward to learning more
about the infomration being col-
lected and analyses being done.”

Al Sharpton to speak

Michael Denbow, Political
Chairman of Mock Convention,
announced last Tuesday that
Rev. Al Shaipton will speak dur-
ing the Kick-Off festivities
Thursday, May 8.

Student D. U.I. rams
into light post

On Monday, April 21 , 2003
a student rammed his Chevrolet
Tahoe into a light post located
in front of the Parking Garage
on East Denny Circle. The dam-
age to University Property will
be paid for by the student.

All stories from staff reports.

LIGHT, BRIGHT.
This sunless
tanning bed at
Paradise Isle
Tanning salon in
Buena Vista
complies with
state health and
safety regulations
regarding sunless
tanning.

ning beds vary from state to state.
Some states have no regulations at
all. At this time, 27 states have laws
that go beyond federal regulations.

jar BRRS / beRz'r1,g-lu/IIP/11

Vrrginia’s regulations for tanning
beds and salons are light. Most 01
the regulations state the requirements

SEE TANNING, PAGE 2

Committee paints W&L green

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
STAFF WRITER

Students and faculty are increasingly
becoming involved in campus recycling.
In l999,theAssociateCollegesoftheSouth
created an environmental initiative. Wash-
ingtonandLeeisone ofseveral competi-
tive, private colleges that forrnACS.

The initiative that ACS proposed
created the Enviromnental Planning and
Management Committee composed of
faculty and student interns. Professor
Bob Akins of the Physics department

was the original Faculty Fellow. Pro- '

fessor Theresa Hanlon has succeeded
him in this position.

President Elrod felt strongly that
Washington and Lee should have a 25
percent reduction in feasible waste. He
believed reducing waste would greatly
help the community. The most recent
report shows an 18 percent reduction.

StartedbyHelenDownes ’02,at:eam
of ACS interns began placing recycling
binsinallW&Lresidentialbuildings. Each
hall selects a resident to take recyclables
to the ﬁont of the Co-op on Recycling
Mondays and Fridays. From the collec-
tion bins, the Physical Plant takes the
recyclables to a recycling plant in
Rockbridge County. Campus statistics
show that white paper recyclables are the
most successful. Alurnimrm and plastic
have proven more diﬂicult to collect.

Nick Gorham ‘O5, one of the ACS
interns, plays an active role in the re-

cycling process. He goes through the
dorms and makes sure that the recycle
bins are clean. At the beginning of
the year, he established a relationship
with all of the dorm counselors.
Gorham said, “From where we were,
we have come a long way. We hope
to get a little better every year.” Next
year ‘the bond between freshman
dorms and recycling will become even
more prevalent as Gorham will be serv-
ing as a donn counselor.

The faculty on the committee is
just as active as the students. They
work closely with the students on more
issues than just recycling. Hanlon has
a strong personal interest in the sub-
ject. She is in charge of composting
at Washington and Lee. Chris Wise,
head of the grounds crew, keeps track
of what happens with the compost
pile. Four men collect the compost
for the university. Every night at 7:30,
an average of 150 pounds of compost
is collected. This compost consists
of uncooked vegetable scraps col-
lected from the campus.

Professor Akins set guidelines
with the original architects of the Uni-
versity Commons in hopes of making
it a green building from the start. He
made sure to keep Woods Creek in
consideration. That is why the en-
trance to the commons from the back
is located in its current position. En-
ergy efﬁcient materials were to be in

SEE GREEN, PAGE 2

  

vwrw «' ~ " ’'‘‘i -4 1" '\7::\u"
JAMIRI ‘.1. s,,,l§Nt.t1Vr’&“ I"'_gdv-z~['v
“-.".""1»'5il‘i:‘?<‘\$§1"'»;§3M ‘.4.  %*~"“""*= ‘ ~

PAGE !lAY ll  .

‘ Lexington
Weekly

 

Forecast
Monday- Surmy, 79/52

Tuesday- Partly Cloudy, 80/49
Wednesday- Partly Cloudy, 71/50
Thursday- Partly Cloudy- 75/51
Friday- Partly Cloudy, 75/ 5 1
Saturday- Scattered Showers, 73/51

Sunday- Partly Cloudy- 74/53

 

MONDAY, APRIL 28.

J ava-Palooza in the BDG quad, 7:30-10:30. Catch-A-
Fire (student band from University of Maryland) will play.

TUESDAY, Aprur. 29.

‘Mesa Hispanica’ Spanish House dirmer in the D-hall,
6:00p.m

University Wind Ensemble concert, 8 :00 p.m., Lenfest
Center.

WEDNI-:sDAY, APRIL 30.

Rick Bass, author of “The Hermit’s Story,” will speak
in room 1 14, University Center as part of the Environmen-
tal Series Luncheon Program, 12:00 noon. _ V

Come watch a house resident prepare a popular Span-
ish dish and then sample the delicious product. Not a full
meal so eat before you come. Spanish House, 6:00 p.m.

Narcotics Anonymous meeting. Open to students,
faculty and staff and the local community. R.E. Lee Epis-
copal Church Upstairs Conference Room (across from
Fairfax Lounge). Meeting ends in time to attendAA meet-
ing in Law School, 6:30-7:30 p.m.

THURSDAY, MAY 1.

Nature writer Rick Bass, author of The Hennit’s Story,
will read from his work in Northen Auditorium. Sponsored
by The Glasgow Endowment, The Environmental Studies
Program and the Outing Club, 4:00 p.m.

“Gimme Shelter,” directed by Albert and David
Maysles (USA, 1970). Rated PG Troubadour Cinema.
Shown today only as part of the Rock Documentary Fihn
Festival, 7:30 p.m. .

Alumni Reunion Weekend, All day.

FRIDAY, MAY 2.

Alumni Reunion Weekend, All day.

“The Last Waltz,” directed by Martin Scorsese (USA,
1978). Rated PG Troubadour Cinema. Shown today only,
7:30pm

SATURDAY, MAY 3.

Alumni Reunion Weekend, All day.

“This is SpinalTap,” directedby Rob Reiner (USA, 1984).
Rated R. Troubadour Cinema. Shown today only, 7:30 p.m.

“Sylvia” —— A Studio Production. Written by A.R.
Gurney and directed by Neal Willetts ’03. Johnson The-
atre, Lenfest Center, 8:00 p.m.

SUNDAY, MAY 4.

“Sylvia” — A Studio Production. Written by A.R.
Gurney and directed by Neal Willetts ’03. Johnson The-
atre, Lenfest Center, 2:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m.

Email phi@wlu.edu with 24/7 events.

 

A notice from
The Executive Committee
Of THE STUDENT BODY

Gerald M. Titus, III
President

Kempton W. Presley
Vice President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

April 2, 2003

Summary of Executive Committee HonorActivity
for the 2002-2003 Academic Year

Investigations: 6
Withdrawals in face of a Closed Hearing: 2
Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 3

Student Body Hearings: 0

email news briefs to <5».-

iii

1

at

  it 1
NOTES.

  

Atkins named Commons director

Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins, Washington and Lee
University’s associate dean of students since 1986, has
been appointed Acting Director of the John W. Elrod Uni-
versity Commons for the 2003-2004 academic year.

Atkins will report to W&L’s Dean of Students and will
be responsible for coordinating a management team han-
dling student activities, food service, maintenance, the book-
store, security and career services in the operations of the
University Commons. As acting director, he will also work
with the director of student activities, the director of leader-
ship development and student leaders to develop a vibrant
student activities program for the facility.

New University Collections
office recieves director

Peter Dun Grover, a former executive director of the
Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities,
has been named by Washington and Lee University as its
first director of University Collections. The appointment
is effective July 1.

Grover, a national leader in museum administration
and historic preservation, will oversee the use, display,
security, conservation and expansion of W&L’s multi-rnil-
lion dollar collections of fine art, decorative arts, historic
and archaeological artifacts spanning four centuries.

ABA President to deliver Law Schools
Commencement Address

Robert J . Grey Jr., president-elect of the American Bar
Association, will deliver the commencement address at
Washington and Lee University’s School of Law on Sun-
day, May 1 1, at 2:30 p.m. on the University’s Front Lawn.

A 1976 alumnus of W&L’s School of Law, Grey is a
partner with Hunton & Williams in Richmond and is one
of Virginia’s most prominent attorneys. In mid-2004, he
will assume the presidency of the 4 1 0,000-member ABA,
the largest voluntary professional group in the world.

Nature writer Bass will speak

Nationally known nature writer Rick Bass will read
from his new collection of stories, “The Herrnit’s Story,” at
Washington and Lee University on May 1 at 4:00 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium. A private dinner with faculty will
follow.

Bass’ weeklong visit to the W&L campus is spon-
sored by the Glasgow Endowment, the Enviromnental
Studies Program and the Outing Club.

Meriggi named Unsung General

Washington and Lee University senior Jeff Meriggi
has been awarded the John W. Elrod Unsung General of
the Year Award by the University’s Celebrating Student
Success committee. I

The award carries a $1,000 stipend, to be split be-
tween Meriggi and the campus or local organization of his
choice. Meriggi, who received an engraved Jefferson cup
in recognition for his contributions to the University in
the category of Recreation earlier in the year, will also
have his name engraved on a plaque to be displayed in
the new John W. Elrod University Commons this fall.

Wasserman is new J-School Knight Chair

Edward Wasserman, a veteran reporter, editor and
media CEO, has been named by Washington and Lee
University to hold its Knight Chair in journalism eth-
rcs.

Wasserman will succeed Louis W. Hodges, who has
been W&L’s Knight Professor since the chair was estab-
lished in 1996 with a $1.5 million grant from the John S. and
James L. Knight Foundation.

 

BY JAMAY LIU
BROWN DAILY l'lERALD (Brow U.)

(U -WIRE) PROVIDENCE, R.I. -
With the number of cases of Severe
Acute Respiratory Syndrome rising
daily across the world, universities
have been struggling with the ques-
tion of how to handle study abroad
programs in SARS-affected regions.

Some schools recalled students
already abroad, while others cancelled
summer programs. Some schools
chose to leave the decision to stu-
dents after sending advisory letters
and in some cases, face masks.

Syracuse University was one of
the first to cut short its program, re-
calling 30 students from China and
Hong Kong in early April because “it
was a situation we couldn’t control,”
said Ryan Williams, assistant director
of admission at Syracuse. Students
completed the first two parts of the
three-module program — ﬁeldwork
and class time — but missed out on
the internship component, “the most
interesting part of the abroad experi-
ence,” Williams said.

Last Wednesday, the Education
Abroad Program for the University of
California campuses decided to recall
44 students studying abroad in
Beijing, said Bruce Harma, director of
communications for EAP.

Hanna said the EAP made its de-
cision after two staff members on site
in Beijing recommended the suspen-
sion of the program based on two
concerns — “emerging news that the
Chinese government was systemati-
cally withholding information and
deaths among a younger population.”
A conﬁrmed case of SARS at Peking
University and cases rumored in sur-
rounding neighborhoods also con-
tributed to the decision to recall stu-
dents, Hanna said.

Though students abroad were
asked to leave immediately, “they are
adults, and we can only advise and
recommend,” Hanna said. But he pre-
dicted that, unlike situations in the
past where students decided to stay
in politically unstable countries such
as Israel despite advice to leave, most
students would probably heed the
EAP’s recent advice because of the

Mom, Mm 24, 200:”

Study abroad programs struggle with SARS  

“unknown” nature of the disease. If
students do decide to stay, they will
have to sign a contract acknowledg-
ing they will be on their own,’ Harma
said. .

According to William Quandt,
vice provost for international affairs
at the University of Virginia, state in-
stitutions have a harder time than pri-
vate ones because decisions are more
“political.”

UVA cancelled its four summer
programs in China and Hong Kong
alter the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention and the US. Depart-
ment of State put a travel warning on
China in early April recommending all
U. S. citizens defer non-essential travel
to the country. Earlier in the year, UVA
determined new policy that stated it
would heed any travel warnings
placed on speciﬁc countries.

“I hated doing it — it was a ter-
rible disappointment to the students,”
Quandt said. “However, if something
had happened, the university could
be accused of being negligent of State
advice. For private universities, this
isn’t as much of a concern.”

ELROD, FROM PAGE 1

She currently attends city council meetings regularly and is,

She said that the work that the city council does is,
“inspiring” and that she has, “a tremendous amount of
respect for the people on the city council, they are trying
to make Lexington the best city it can be.”

Elrod says that she is, ‘Very committed to this city. . ..I’m
going to live out my life here,” she said

“veiyhopeﬁillhatlwillbethepersontheypicktoserve.”Shewas -

also defeated by Ben CLir1e in Novernber’s state delegate race.

Mayerchak’s resignation on May 31 comes because he is I

moving out ofLexington’s city limits. Histeimexpires onDecem-
ber31, 2006 andwhoeveris appointedtothepositionbythe city
council will serve until that date.

GREEN, FROM PAGE 1

cluded in the Commons as well as a
monitor that shows energy consump-
tion for the building. Nick Gorham said,
“ProfessorAkins- is amazing. He makes

Rockbridge a better place single
handedly.” The project has been pro-
ductive to this point, but waste still
needs to be reduced by another seven
percent. The success of the comn1it-

tee can be attributed to the effort of
the whole Washington and Lee com-
munity. The students and faculty have
come together in an astounding man-
ner to paint the campus green.

-TANNING, FROM PAGE 1

for waivers and warning signs that must be posted. Only
Title 59.1-310.5 mentions the requirement to provide pro-
tective eyewear.

Paradise Isle owner Kim Beverly thinks there should
be more regulations for tarming salons in Virginia. She
worked in a physician’s office for 20 years before she
opened Paradise Isle.

“There are no [Virginia] regulations, which I think is
wrong,” Beverly said. “It really surprised me when I de-
cided to open my business and checked with the health
department.” ‘ - ' ~ ‘l_ A v I ’

There is a national organization. for. tanning salons
called the Smart Tan Network. Butnone of the local sa-
lons are a member of this network. Local tanning beds
said that many students from Washington and Lee and
Southern Virginia University patron their salons.

“Dining November, December, and January, I get more
students,” Beverly said. “And to be honest with you,
students keep me going during those months.”

The Tarmery and Paradise Isle said that most of the
customers were female. But Beverly said that she still
attracted a large number of male students.

Junior Steve Saks said he tans at Beyond Video. Saks
says the reason he tans has nothing to do with a pressure
to look good. He just likes the way tanning makes him
feel. He also thinks that many male students tan.

“A lot of them don’t admit it, but they do [tan]” Saks
said.

TanningTruth.com guesses that around 30 million
people in North America tan indoors sometime within a
year. Many studies, like the one by the American Cancer
Society, have linked the use of tanning beds to skin can-
cer.

But research has not put tanning salons out of busi-
ness.

INS RED BY  R1103, Stills  BA

signing at $15, :55: Model ;‘}lrna'n= t3..t?95.

“You are going to die of something,” sophomore
Megan Brooks said. “It’s ﬁne as long as you don’t go in
there and fry yourself on a regular basis.”

Several students have said that they tan to feel good,
regardless of the risks. Garval now tans at Paradise Isle.

“I feel like it’s a good stress reliever, especially in the
winter,” Garval said. “ I just like lying in the sun; and I
personally think everyone looks better with a tan.”

Even burns and bad experiences from tarnring beds
do not keep some students from continuing to tan.

“I did tan in one of the super beds, unaware of how
intense the bulbs were,” Garval said. “I got the most

painful burn of my life, and it made me physically illland

incapacitated for a week.” .

Super beds are much stronger than regular tarming
beds. A person tanning in a super bed can get the same
tan as from a regnilar bed, but in fewer sessions. Some
super beds allow a person to tan for only 10 minutes, half
the time allowed in a regular bed.

Each salon offers packages ranging from 5 sessions
to 30 sessions. They also each offer a month of unlimited
tanning ranging from $30 at Paradise Isle to $44.95 at The
Tannery.

The Tannery even offers one year of unlimited tan-
ning for $300. Crystal Clark, an employee at The Tannery,
said that prices also vary depending on the time of year. '

But Beverly thinks people choose a salon based on
more than price.

“Pricing is an issue. Most people who shop around
usually tan where they can find the best price,” Beverly
said. “But I get comments such as we have a ﬁiendly
staff, are always clean, and have good bulbs.”

Despite prices and risks, many students have said
that they will continue to tan.

“For me, in the winter, it makes you feel like it’s suin-
mer,” Saks said. “And I like summer. It relaxes you. . .and
if you’re sick, it feels good too.”

Seats five, has 53 cubic
feet of iiargu space. and
is available with tan hp 1
and a 6-speed manual
shift. Even evolution A
can’! “fully explain it.
 "' 1- v 1-.. till} étﬁiitetﬁ FE’. EJEWBS till

E*{'.l§%lvll; IIIIIILIIL. §Jl.Eli' Pﬁﬁ Ml ‘Nit.

 

  

“ i}rrr.r'r'l;i{r;rcr:«.x*
OPINIONSEDIIOR
FMAr;1qRwANB@wwr3DU

* Mommy, Am 28, 2003

THE RING-TUM Par . 

PINIONS
“Patriot” Act affron o liberty

The United States has an unfor-
tunate history in times of crisis of
going too far in sacriﬁcing liberties
and rights for safety. The Alien and
Sedition Acts of John Adams’ admin-
istration, the unlawful internment of
Japanese-Americans during World
War 11, even the suspension of ha-
beas corpus by President Lincoln

 

PAGE 3

Boycott silly and
poorly targeted

So now that the military portion of Operation Who’s «
Your Baghdaddy? seems to be over, we have quite a ‘
mess to clean. You know the old rule, “You broke it,
you bought it.” It appears to apply in this situation. i

The question is, where will this money come from? I
This country is running on empty. Quite ironic in a time 
when we have acquired a sandbox so'saturated in oil .

~ Sigiiiilhoironn

Play WLUR in the Co-op

K The Co-op is a place for relaxation and
restoration. Students use the facility to re-
lax after a hard day of thinking and to re-
store their weary bodies in the morning-
Js. ah, those greasy biscuits. This is certainly

 

unquestionable with the unbeatable menu,
unreasonable prices or the breathtaking
views of the construction site that the oh-
so-comfortable-booths offer. There is one
missing element guaranteed to improve the
ambiance: music worth listening to.

could be argued to be one step too

we should all be driving SUV’s.

far. Now we are forced once more to
choose between democracy and se-
curity, and this time the catalyst is the
proposed Patriot Act, Part II.

First, some background. The

The silliest move of all is the Bush crusade to con- .
tinue cutting taxes. No one likes to pay them, but the *
White House has projected ﬁgures around $600 billion to ‘
rebuild a country that we just spent billions blowing up. ‘

However, there as been an element of the ridiculous

original Patriot Act was passed by
Congress with little opposition in the
immediate wake of September 1 1. It
gave internal investigative agencies,
most notably the FBI, a surprisingly

about recent events anyway. My favorite were the tele-
vision images of Iraqi Information Minister Mohammed
Moharnrned Saeed al-Sahhaf proclaiming victory over
that “gang of bloodsucking bastards” while the smoke
of his burning headquarters loomed in the background.

No matter what your opinion of WLUR
‘ 91.5, the student radio station is a voice of
students that showcases student talent and
interests. Why doesn’t the Co-op turn its

dials to the station? The current radio
blather is senseless and silly. Ostensibly a
for-proﬁt radio station broadcasting out of
Roanoke, one wonders why they have any
more listeners than our beloved WLUR?
The “No way news stories” and the brain-
less riddles are dumb enough, but don’t get
us started on the Disco Fridays (for the first
time in our lives we actually dread Fri-
days.)

Washington and Lee prides itself on the
ease with which students are able to join
all kinds of campus activities. The admis-
sions office and student tour guides boast
to prospective students about the dozens
of activities available—— a number which
far exceeds that appropriate to the size of
our school. The Journalism Department is
duly proud of our two newspapers, televi-
sion studio and radio station.

But, what good does a campus radio
station do if no one is able to listen to it?
The Cooperational Facility of Glory (as it
has been called) offers the perfect venue
in which to showcase student radio and
make students aware of what records
WLUR deejays are spinning. Moreover, we
bet that after students enjoy the wonders
of the campus radio station in the Co-op,
they will be more apt to turn it on in their
dorm rooms, fraternity and sorority houses

» and cars.

large amount of power to effectively

Another favorite of mine was seeing soldiers ﬂy

 
  

r of the Week

“We don’tknowtl1atyet. . . .We have amajor

cities with clear goverance.”
~Democratic presidential candidate and
former Gov. Howard Dean (D-Vt.),

ignore previously-existing rules of
evidence and surveillance. Phone
bugging and covert infonnation col-
lecting on speciﬁc individuals or
groups were allowed without a court
order so long as the agency could
prove reasonable warrant for perform-
ing the searches. This was all well and
good in the wake of a severe national
disaster. However, Congress stemly
attached a lifespan to the bill; it would
expire in a little over two years.

Now, as we approach that dead-
line, some government officials, most
prominently Attorney General John
Ashcroft and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-
Utah), want to make the law permanent,
and they would expand it so that it “. . .
would eliminate the need for federal
agents seeking secret surveillance war-
rants to show that a suspect is affiliated
with a foreign power or agent, like a ter-
rorist group,”
which is ominous
enough in and of
itself. But that is

   


CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

PHOTO COUR'l'F.€Y ww. wlrtebaznagov

UNPATRIOTIC. Attorney Generaljohn Ashcroft is calling for a second “Patriot” Act
which would both increase the government’s power and never expire.

always had the power to remove gov-
ernments they didn’t like, but now the
government has the power to remove
citizens it doesn’t like.

But not to worry, says Barbara
Comstock, spokeslady for the DOJ.
__ “The department’s

deliberations are al-
ways undertaken
with the strongest

not all. They want
to give the law some other extremely
disturbing expanded powers.

An example? The United States
government has never had the power
to strip a citizen of his citizenship un-
less that citizen declared a clear in-
tent to abandon it (by saying so, serv-
ing in foreign government, etc.). Ac-
cording to the new proposed law, “the
intent to relinquish nationality need
not be manifested in words, but can
be inferred from conduct.” This is bad
enough, but just who, you may ask,
will do this inferring? The Department
of Justice will, and its rulings are ﬁ-
nal. This should send a chill up the
spine of any American who under-
stands the Constitution. This means
that your citizenship, even if you wish
to retain it, can be stripped away by
the government without a trial and
without any chance to recover it. In
the United States, the citizens have

commitment to our
Constitution and civil liberties.” That’s
right. You should trust your govern-
ment not to abuse the power to deport
citizens arbitrarily and without trial.
As if this were not enough, the
expanded Patriot Act would also give
the government the power to declare
any group, individual, or organization
“terrorist” without providing any evi-
dence at all to that effect. And no, this
declaration would not be in the hands
of, say, a federal court. No, instead
it’s, you guessed it, the Department
of Justice. It’s not just foreign com-
batants from Afghanistan that can be
held indefinitely without trial at
Guantanamo Bay anymore, now U.S.
Citizens can join in the fun, and all
you have to do is make the Depart-
ment of Justice dislike you. This
should sound familiar, and here’s why:
In another state that proclaimed
itself to be “democratic” at the time,

South Africa, the government had this
very same power (to label groups as
“terrorists” and jail them indeﬁnitely).
The government gave the very same
assurances to its citizens and the world
community that the power would not
be abused. But, of course, it was. Ini-
tially the government did use the
power against real terrorist groups.
But eventually, they also found it con-
venient to use the power against
groups protesting apartheid in South
Africa. Nelson Mandela, for instance,
was held for decades under this law.

To call this step towards totali-
tarianism the “Patriot Act” is one of
the most sickening things I’ve ever
heard. This proposed law is against
everything that the United States of
America was founded to stand for,
and it is a reckless abuse of govern-
mental power. Fortunately, the law is
opposed by a majority of both par-
ties in Congress (and many kudos to
the honorable Republican represen-
tatives who know a bad law when
they see it), but you can never be
too safe. Make sure your represen-
tative knows where you stand. If this
law were to pass, it would start us
down a path where even our most
sacred liberties would become vio-
lable in the name of the “war on ter-
ror.” “Patriot” act, indeed.

the University of Georgia ﬂag over the ﬁrst of Saddam’s
captured palaces. The commanders then went inside
to take their first shower in twenty days in Hussein’s

personal bathroom
with golden
showerheads.


NICK KXMSEY ‘03

But one of the —-~————;——
most ridiculous actions that stemmed from this war

came from many ofAmerica’s citizens themselves. The ‘i

self-imposed boycott of French goods has to be one of

the most childish moves of all.

To illustrate my point, imagine that somewhere in
the Bordeaux region of France on a quiet vineyard in the

3

countryside lives a man who makes wine to support his ‘J

family. He does it because his father did the same, and

his father before him, and so on for generations.

Suddenly, this man has seen his proﬁts fall drarnati- ’
cally. His wine, which had been a popular vin du table in l
the United States, has now been boycotted by his once i
loyal customers across the Atlantic. Why has this hap-'

pened? Because his government disagreed with ours. 1»
What, pray tell, does that have to do with this man

making wine in the French countryside? Nothing. Be-l
cause one country’s government made a move that our‘_
government did not like, people across the country‘
stopped buying French goods. Meanwhile, hypocriti-l

cal “journalists” like Fox’s Bill O’Reilly exacerbated the

problem by telling his viewers not to purchase any-

thing from France.

3“

But during the newsbreaks on O’Reilly s no-spin:
zone” (that still makes me chuckle), Fox anchors re-‘
ported on anti-war demonstrators here at home. So,
answer me this, if American citizens have the right to:

protest a war started by their own government, whydo

we take a completely different attitude with the French,‘

and then punish French citizens. I assure you that Presi-
dent Jacques Chirac was the last person affected by

this move.

I was also shocked to go to Starbucks and ﬁnd
that my usual blend had not been changed to Freedom
Roast. Disagree all you want, but keep your Freedom

Toast and Freedom Fries.

Supposedly, this war was fought to bring democ-
racy and a free voice to a people that had been under the
rule of a horrible man for decades. Why then are people
becoming so angry when another country’s government
exercises this same freedom of expression? You can dis-

agree with their decision, but be an adult about it.

There are many more important things to worry

about than your bottle of Mer1ot’s country of origin.

when askedbyWolfBlitzer if Iraq is
betteroffwithout Saddam

Letters to the Editor

H.

'_ ' ' ' ' As the projects coordinator of KEWL and the organizer American workplace. This does not mean we should just

“«‘”‘-~“=\"%~\   5-'5l‘\1=?‘-5'="w‘ Ant, Bunsh  In bum unaccep of the Equity Bake Sale, I readBrett Kirwan’s article (“KEWL turn the cheek and accept it. Instead, as is the case with all

i THE   Dear Editor, bakes up lies,” March 31) and felt the need to respond. We civil rights issues, the key to overcoming gender wage dis-
4 1wou1d iike to address this ietter to a specific person expected people with questions to address us at the sale. I crirnination is education.” Education also happens to be

Founder J- 53111 Slicer, 13981: or persons but 1 don’t know who they are The iibrary have to admit, we were pleasantly surprised at the overall the stated purpose of our themed bake sale.

Editor tr’ Chief Katie 3- Howon eievator doors have been painted four times in the past friendliness of the student body. Most of our customers told While 93 cents may seem like no big deal, or to people

Associate Editor Job G- Brooks two weeks because ofextrernely obj ectionabie graffiti at- us the idea was clever and effective. A few people protested like Kirwan, “no gap there,” think about that in the big

2nd Associate Edttor Kyle Wass tacking president Bur-ish_ it reappears just as fast as we and asked us what our purpose was—for anyone with ques- picture. For every dollar a man makes, I will make 93 cents in

. ,t 0Ptrtto"s Editor Brett T- Kirwan remove it, sureiy there are more constructive ways to voice tions, we had a fact sheet. The statistics are plain, are true, return. Those seven cents may seem like nothing in the
Asst Optrttorts Edttor C31oYAnders0n your criticism of university poiicies than by this kind of and contrary to the author’s statements, we did not dress context of one dollar to you, but over the course of a life;

Ar ts & Ltfo Editor Catherine C- Gn)’ behavior_ 1 know we have better ways to spend the them up in accusatory language. So why didn’t the author of time, it adds up to thousands of dollars less pay in addition

Asst Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan university’s building maintenance do11ars_ It is most dis- “KEWL bakes up lies” come and talk to us about his reserva- to reduced savings and smaller pensions come retirement;

SPor ts Editor Erin 15- Jnnns appointing to have to bring this situation to the attention tions? We may be feminists, but we don’t bite. Even if you take Kirwan’s statistic, 98 cents, it is still an

" Asst SPor ts Editor Donny Banks of the student body V As to the statistics mentioned in Kirwan’s article, I otherwise unexplainable difference of two cents for every

P hotogr oloher s Codycnbbnrn sincereiy, must disagree. We had a variety of comparisons available single dollar a woman makes. A gap does indeed exist. I

Sreya Banerjee Barbara J , Brown on the sheet we distributed. 1 must admit I did make one The statistics are real. You can try to dismiss them all

_ University Librarian accidental slip. One woman asked about comparing unrnar- you want, but blatant and false attacks on my character

A _B“s'"e_ss Moooger Thomas v_V°"tnY ' ried men and women—a point Kirwan brings up. I mis- and on the character of my organization are unprofes-
Clroutotfort Dlrootor H°n1'YG1'nnban Kﬂwan Wfong     quoted the statistic in return. It is not 87 cents in that in- sional and unacceptable. Anyone is allowed to disagree

Adverttstng Asststottt M°Q“°°n Caivert stance: it is instead 93 cents to the male dollar—a statistic I with the premise of the bake sale. We are completely open

Dear Editor, quote from an article printed in the Johns Hopkins Journal to the idea that other people have different opinions. But

' The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
‘t sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions‘ must be e-mailed to
4 phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colunms do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
‘ vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

“Lies.” “Sham.” “Falsehoods.” “Thoroughly
disproven myth.” Interesting headline for an article in
which the author also afﬁrms, “the statistics KEWL pa-
raded about are true.”

of American Politics that attempts to minimize the gender
gap. Even the author of this article comes to one overriding
conclusion: “Having said this, it is essential to admit that
discrimination still persists, even if only at low levels, in the

calling us liars and peddlers of falsehoods when you rec-
ognize the truth in what we tell shows irresponsibility on

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

    
   

TALKBACK: Whatl   tfoodavailable in the Co-op?

The Ring-tum Phi
‘L Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington. Virginia 24450

       

pp Telephone: (540) 462-4060 ’ = ‘ ’ ‘ 3  L . — ~  A ~»,
« Fax: (540)462-4059 “soft retzels” “wraps” “Phill Steak and Cheese ” “wraps” Thmgs we dont
Email: phi@wlu.edu . P . » y . , ' ' , have to make.”
h,,p..//ph,-pwlwedu —Kat1eJenk1ns‘06 -Betsy Frayer‘O6 -JaredHarnson 05, employee -Ashley Brown 06

-Nancy Rhinehart ‘03 , employee

 

   

 

PAGE 4

Democrats’ PC bulig qashes fre scussion

Spring is upon us and, in characteris-
tic fashion, the Democrats smell blood.
Apparently, they will not be happy until
every possible Senator receives the
“Trent” treatment (i.e., in honor of the dis-
graced ex-maj ority leader). Hoping to capi-
talize on Senator Rick Santorum’s (R-Pa.)
chronic case of foot-in-mouth disease, lib‘-
erals across the land are demanding a
pound of ﬂesh.

Washington does deserve credit,
however. The pundits, media, and chat-
terers waited almost three days after the
war in Iraq began winding down to re-
turn to focusing on truly inconsequen-
tial and ridiculous news. The current tem-
pest is over Senator Santorum’s recent
comments condemning homosexual be-
havior. While the Senator’s comments
were ill-timed and urmecessarily graphic,
the calls for his resignation constitute the
real danger.

Unless the Constitution has been
clandestinely co-opted, individuals
(yes, Democrats, even Republican indi-
viduals) are guaranteed the right of free
speech. Even free speech that some
deem to be idiotic. Calls for Santorum’s
resignation are not just unwise, they’re
unsettling: if the exercise of a constitu-
tional right can lead to the forfeiture of
a constitutional office, where does in-
tellectual conformity end?

Perhaps Santorum, as a United States
Senator, was unwise to have espoused the
beliefs he espoused. That is a decision
for the voters of Pennsylvania, not the
liberal media and the Demo-
cratic front groups who
have been greedily plotting
his downfall.

“Senator Santorum’s
comments about (gay) Americans demon-
strates an incredible level of ignorance and
intolerance that is simply not acceptable,”
Jeff Soref, the Chair of the Democratic Na-
tional Committee’s Gay and Lesbian Ameri-
can caucus, said. Unfortunately for Soref,

RIGHT ON!
IOHN HEATH ‘04 __

OI3iI\IiONs

l’H()T() (:oL'RrI«:.<r zwwtgoirtgp/(1/it1rlItr.raIr

FOOT IN MOUTH. \Will the deluge of criticism from the Left for Sen. Rick Santorum (1), pictured with ex-Rep.].C. Watts (R—Okla.), ever stop?

he got it wrongzrthe unacceptable stance
is the one of intellectual McCarthyism that
he embraces. The Senate, like all other de-
liberative bodies, should be a marketplace
of ideas—— even bad ideas. The hope is
that the good ideas will rise to the top and
the merit-less ones will be
discarded, but this pro-
cess can only occur if all
ideas are considered.
Soref and the other
cronies of the thought police are the
real danger here: politically correct bul-
lying discourages intellectual curios-
ity and encourages an atrophy in the
realm of critical thinking. As citizens,
we should be glad that Senator

Santorum had the courage to stand up
for his beliefs, even if those beliefs
prove unpopular.

The unyielding irony of the situation
is the appalling double standard applied in
this case: the very liberals who are
chomping at the bit for Senator Santorum
to go are the very same who get a pass in
the media and punditocracy for frequent
bouts of verbal idiocy which arguably are
much more dangerous for the preservation
of our democracy. I leave you this week
with a few examples:

“It appears to me that Muammar
Qaddaﬁ is one of the greatest preservers
and ﬁghters for human rights that there is
on the earth,” —Louis Farrakhan

“Outside of the killings, Washington
has one of the lowest crime rates in the
country,” -Marion Barry, former Washing-
ton, D.C. Mayor

“In America, anyone can be President.
That’s one of the risks you take,” -former
Presidential nominee Adlai Stevenson

“Thank you for your letter regarding
the protection of the Texas eagle. . . . I share
your view that the urgent problem of spe-
cies extinction and the conservation of bio-
logical diversity should be addressed. . . . I
look forward to working with you for the
future of our planet,” -forrner Vice-Presi-
dent Al Gore, responding to a constituent
who was concerned that Amtrak was can-
celing the Texas Eagle train

    

Peterson murder case exposes abortion’s fallacies

With the hostilities in Iraq slowed to a mopping-up
operation, the cable news networks were lucky that new
developments arose in the Peterson murder case to recap-
ture the public ’s imagination. To recap, Laci Peterson never
returned home after leaving to walk her dog on Christmas
Eve of last year. On April 13, the body of a full-terrn fetus
washed up on the shore near Richmond, Calif. The next
day, the torso of a woman washed ashore about a mile from
the baby’s body. On April 18, the bodies were positively
identiﬁed as those of Laci Peterson and her unborn child
and Scott Peterson was arrested on two counts of murder.

Therein lies this case’s most interesting twist. Soon
after the double murder charges were ﬁled, Mavra Stark,
president of the National Organization for

personhood to fetuses.” Simpson echoes national NOW’s
fear that laws which make killing a fetus murder could lead
to the abolition of abortion because such laws would pro-
tect fetuses at any stage of development.

However, in the wake of the Peterson’s arraignment,
NOW has not reaffirmed its opposition to laws that permit
murder charges for unborn children. Apparently, political
calculation trumps principle and even NOW understands
that opposing the double murder charge in this instance
would be a losing move.

The danger that NOW and its feminazi fellow-travel-
ers face is that unborn children will be routinely catego-
rized as capable of being murdered. Naturally, something

that can be murdered must be alive. If a

Women’s Morris County, N.J., chapter, RIGHT OF THE AISLE fetus is in fact a child, deserving of the
objected to a second murder charge being ‘ state’s protection, the entire pro—abortion
ﬁled on behalf of the unborn child. She BRETT T KIRWAN 04 house of cards comes tumbling down.

told the Morris County Daily Record,
“Was it born, or was it unborn? If it was unborn, then I
can’t see charging (Peterson) with a double murder.”

Kim Gandy, national president of NOW, has similarly
spoken out against permitting criminals to be charged with
the murder of unborn children. Alter Sen. Mike DeWine
(R-Ohio) introduced the Unborn Victims of Violence Act
in 2001, she spat, “This bill is being sold as an effort to
deter violence against women, but it ignores the pregnant
woman. It is nothing more than a poorly disguised at-
tempt to elevate fetal rights.”

Professor Pam Simpson, president of the Rockbridge
county NOW chapter, agrees with Gandy. The reason why
Stark spoke up she says, “is mostly likely over concern”
about “a whole body of law” that could potentially “grant

Pro-abortion arguments are based on
the philosophical conclusion that babies in utero are no
more alive or separate from the mother than fat sucked out
during liposuction. As such, a woman shouldn’t feel any
more compunction about having an abortion than she
might while clipping her toenails or having her tonsils
removed. The Peterson case brings into sharp relief the
fact that an unborn child is, in fact, a human being distinct
from the mother who deserves the protection of state.
Mavra Stark has the unfortunate distinction of being the
only NOW member willing to admit this in public.

Unfortunately for the infanticide crusaders, public
opinion and state legislatures are working to make laws
that protect unborn babies the national standard. Cur-
rently, 14 states have deﬁned intentionally killing a fetus

 

    

POT0 (j()URTE.\‘\' wwzmjtrztrrrtetrtrgmzqi.trtrr .r/r
PERSONHOOD? Scott Peterson has been charged with killing
an unborn child. Some in NOW see this as a step toward
outlawing abortion.

in any stage of development a crime. At least 12 more
permit manslaughter or murder charges based on the age
of the fetus. Califomia’s law, under which murder charges

‘ may be ﬁled if the fetus was at least seven weeks old, was

passed in 1970. Alabama, Colorado and North Carolina are
all currently considering adding similar laws to their books.

The pro—abortion lobby is based on a lie— that unborn
children are not human, not separate from their mothers and can
be killed indiscriminately The Peterson case and NOW ’s reaction

. to it demonstrate the fallacy of their logic and the evil of abortion.

§ FUN CARDS 0 APRIL CORNELL CLOTHING ° PURSES

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

LETTERS FROM PAGE 3

the part of the journalist. What is a catchy and contro-
versial article to you was somebody else’s hard work.
Perhaps you should consider that when you are criti-
cizing the next project and the people that contributed
to it. You should remember that real people are involved,
too.

Sincerely,

Robyn Konkel ‘05

Kirwan responds: V

I never impugned anyone’s character. 1 did ques-
tion KEWL spreading, via a bake sale, the untruth that
the gender wage gap is due to discrimination. My ar-

ticle clearly demonstrated that any wage gap that ex— A

ists is do to other factors and not discrimination.

Hillel objects to letter’s headline

Dear Editor,

Recently, you chose to publish a letter en-
titled “Alumnus blames Jews for war (March 17).”
We are writing to complain not only about your
decision to publish such an inﬂammatory and irra-
tional letter, but even more, your headline for the
letter. First, Lackmann, as he himself says, never
attended Washington and Lee University for long
and never graduated; your use of “alumnus”
therefore gives the letter more weight than it de-
serves.

Second, your headline focuses solely on one
small part of the letter, and not even its most im-
portant part. The letter is a diatribe against vari-
ous people persecuting those who want to think
independently (especially the letter’s author), and
its main claim is that Washington and Lee stu-
dents want to be told what to think.

We can only conclude that you, the editor,
chose such a headline for its shock value— to
provoke and inﬂame public opinion at the expense

of Jews. This is especially what we object to. Your _
actions were hurtful and insensitive. '

We would like finally to draw your attention
to the way you have presented our campus com-
munity to prospective students visiting campus
on that weekend (minority, Jewish, and Honors
candidates). Rather than an atmosphere of free
speech and open discussion, your handling ofthis
and other inﬂammatory letters in the same issue
makes us look small-minded and hostile to differ-
ences. Surely you couldhave found ways to
present these important issues that would lead this
campus toward better understanding, civility, and
community.

Sincerely,
The officers of Hillel

Stash cigarette butts in the trash

Dear Editor,

I can stand in front. of Newcomb Hall smoking a
cigarette and count 39 ‘cigarette butts on and in the
bricks within 5 feet of the TWO ceramic cigarette dis-
posal containers that are sitting in front of Newcomb
Hall. Come on people . . . how hard is it to put your
cigarette in the sand? I have a real problem when I see
the custodians, who don’t smoke, have to get out there
with brooms and sweep and dig out the butts from the
bricks. Let’s try a little harder next time and I mean, all
over campus. And believe you me, I will call you on it,
ask the smoking students around Newcomb Hall.
Sincerely,

Karen Lyle
Secretary, Religion, Philosophy, Sociology and
Anthropology, East Asian Languages & Literature

HAVE OPINIONS?
CONTACT THE 2003-4 OPINIONS EDITOR
CALEY ANDERSON
X4845 OR ANDERsONc@wLU'.EDU

 
    

 
   
 
  
    
 

 

E?
- §
LL! 9, ,
o ’ *1
WE CAN DO ITI 6» €II|e-  THE
‘A {$9 a APARTMENT ,
Repairs ~ Contacts 5) § LOCATOR
5 Z 
COOL FRAMES! :§: § :l[':ll:;I_llltll‘S I=|:_EE rocdnrnn ‘satiric: ’
~ 3 Dllll Ollllﬂ Illll an lllllll‘ N38 Illa
HGT LENSES! é §  " #
SHADES! E    <2 - -
   33‘I-?».%%.‘%233 .
   53’ wvvw-shoovumokinseedscom  E-mail:anartmentlucatnr@gst:-antcom
20 years serving Rockbridge 8 <7‘
at 203 N, Main street, Lexington Q MITTENS - STATIONERY - HOME ACCENTS S?» ,.

463-7440

 

  

it

. One singular sensation: One Acts entenarn

 

   

LA’IlH£R1NEL.GbY
ARIs&LIEEEoIToR
F1vHI;cwt@wIIIH)II
MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

One took place in a New York City apartment. One
took place in a patient’s room. One took place in a living
room. One presented the realities of working as an aspiring

‘ writer. One presented the thought process of a mentally

unstable person. One presented a situation nothing short
of bizarre and bad luck. One was witty and comical. One
was melancholic and disturbing. One was uproarious and
hilarious.

The One Acts were a series of one acts, each student
directed and performed. I had the pleasure of attending
Kris Pollina’s “Who Made Robert DeNiro King of
America”, Bart Peters’s “The Most Massive Woman
Wins”, and Emily Pace’s “Black Comedy”
last Saturday afternoon. Though I
unfortunately was unable to attend the other
series of The One Acts, which were directed

\ by Ana Estrada and Neal Willetts, I heard

they were nothing short of brilliant
performances.

As Radiohead faded into the background, Pollina
opened the scene: a man (Joe Harouni) whose shirttail
was half—tucked in knelt on the living room ﬂoor
frantically typing away on an old, beat-up typewriter,
while across the stage a business-like woman in a suit
(Sara Kell Bowers) sat at a ﬂawlessly clean desk, staring
blankly into her laptop screen. The contrast became
immediately apparent: the spontaneous vs. the tamed;
the fanatical vs. the rational; ideaphoric thoughts vs.
blocked thoughts; the Dionysus vs. the Apollo; husband
vs. wife.

Pollina wonderfully portrayed the dissimilarity
between these two characters and their relationship with
the unrestricted, anything-goes pragmatic (not to
mention promiscuous) agent (Sarah Orvin) whose only
purpose is to sell potential novels — and in any way
possible. Bowers, Harouni, and Orvin were convincing
and performed the distinctive personalities of the
characters perfectly: at one moment, I’d “side” with the
husband and wish him all the success, while the next
moment I’d feel sorry for the pitiful wife who was
suffering from writer’s block. Together, Pollina, Bowers,
Harouni, and Orvin put on a wonderful and entertaining
comedy that at times, according to Pollina, “stressed
the hell out of me” but was, nonetheless, “an awesome
experience.”

Peters’s “The Most Massive Woman Wins” brought
the psychology of an obese person to the stage. Taking
place in the doctor’s oﬂice before cellulite removal surgery,
this play focused on the reﬂections of four obese women
in a society that prides itself on being thin. Peters used a
creative approach to its production, portraying the
disconcerting history of an obese person and the effects
of childhood teasing, the inability to stop eating, the
pressures from husbands, and many other causes of
obesity. I thought Peters artistically used the lighting,
eerie singing and dancing to convey their unstable
mentalities, while Ligia Abreu, Kristin Marie Evans,
Kimberly Sampson, and Josie James gave heart-wrenching
and bone-chilling performances. It was deep and thought-
provoking, gloomy and depressing, yet frighteningly

 credible.

The actresses gave wonderful performances and
presented the aspect of the eating disorder that carmot be
known by reading textbooks or as told from a doctor. They
presented the experience of obesity, what it is like to have
and live with the disease, and how it takes over the mind,
completely encompassing all thoughts, behaviors, and

ON THE ARTS
AURA LEIGH BIRD“/ELL‘03above interact together in a living room

THE RlN‘G-TEMP I

RTS

 

0

life itself. Their performance was so captivating that I felt
as though I were experiencing the disease myself and as
the play came to a close, I — as well as the entire auditorium
— was silent, at a complete loss for words. The melancholy
of the situation overwhelmed me and brought to my eyes
how inﬂuential subtle aspects of society can have such a
great impact on the lives of many women desiring to be
thin.

On a lighter note, what happens when a lively and
animated guy, a high maintenance girlfriend with her
militant father, a single, devout Christian elderly woman, a
ﬂamboyantly gay friend, an intelligent electrician, and a
wealthy man from the bourgeois interact
together in a living room? Answer: a
comedy. What happens when all of the

’ in the dark? An outrageously hysterical

comedy. Add in a few more details —

such as the moment when the elderly woman drinks alcohol

for the first time in 60 years or that all the furniture in the

living room was stolen from the gay ﬁiend’s apartment or

that the racy ex-girlfriend decides to crash there for the

night after her lengthy journey abroad — and you get more

than an outrageously hysterical comedy. You get Black
Comedy.

I carmot explain how truly side-splitting and hilarious
the performance was. All I can say is that the next morning,
I awoke feeling as though I had done 500 sit-ups the night
before. I had laughed so hard that I made my stomach
sore.

The play began in darkness and could not see
anything. All we could understand from the play was that
a normal conversation was taking place in what seemed to
be a living room. Suddenly, the lights came on while in the
play, they had supposedly blown a fuse and the lights
were off. In other words, Pace used darkness and light to
convey when the apartment lights were on and off,
respectively. So, for nearly the entire play, the actors and
actresses had to act and pretend that they were in complete
darkness ~ it was great! Their performances were wonderful
and believable— no, wait, they were more than believable.
They were absolutely ﬂawless. Pace casted: Casey
Ratchford as the main character, Catherine Sumrnerson as
his fiancee Carol, Jane Ledlie as the elderly Christian
woman, Ruth Esponda as the ex-girlfriend, Chris Alderman
as the electrician, Nick Ramsey as the wealthy tycoon,
Caleb Dulis as the fIancée’s father, and Jeremy Mirns as
the gay friend.

The play consisted of purely situational humor
and thus, and almost all credit for the extreme hilarity
ofthe comedy must be given to senior Emily Pace as
the director. The actors and actresses executed their
lines and actions perfectly, but to think that she
completely directed the show and was able to arrange
all the bizarre situations is beyond me. She .is
definitely gifted and talented and knows how to create
laughter.

Long hours and hard work were deﬁnitely put into
all five of the one acts, especially on the part of the
directors. The three plays thatl saw were all fabulous and
I couldn’t believe that they were directed entirely by
students. The performances by the actors and actresses
were equally as fabulous as were the directors and the
technical staff, and I’d just like to say thanks to everyone
who helped with the shows — you made me think, reﬂect,
imagine, and laugh harder than I had in a really, really long
time.

FUN IN THE sUN!

KATIE H0wEI.L/ the Ring-/um Phi

OFF To THE RACES! On Saturday, April 26, thousands of college students from throughout Virginia and
neighboring areas attended the biannual Foxfreld races in Charlottesville. As is customary, Washington and
Lee enjoyed a strong representation among the attendees of the festivities. The above students are waiting in

IFE

 

line to use the rows of portable bathrooms, a common sight at Foxfreld. The races will occur again in the fall.

Write for Life!

email guyc@wlu.edu or phi@wlu.edu

BIZARRE LOVE TRIANGLE: Greg (]oe Harouni ‘O5) and Sylvia
(Ligia Abreu ‘06) play together affectionately as Greg’s wife
Kate (Kris Pollina ‘03) looks ‘on disapprovingly and jealously.

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ASSISTANT ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Starting on May 3, the W&L
theatre will present the play “Sylvia”
written by A.R Gurney’s and
directed by W&L senior Neal
Willetts. Sylvia tells the story of a
young couple in New York City, Kate
and Greg, whose marriage is
threatened by the increasing amount
of time that Greg spends with his
best friend. This friend is, in
actuality, the couple’s pet dog,
Sylvia.

Senior Neal Willetts, whose
directing experience here at
Washington and Lee includes the
productions of “Godspell” in the
fall of 2001 and “Zoo Story” in last
month’s One Acts, is directing
“Sylvia”. Willets selected “Sylvia”

‘Sylvia’ brings barks, laugh

not only because of the play’s humor
but also because “underlying the
hilarious dialogue of “Sylvia” and
fantastic writing of one of A.R.
Gurney’s best comedies, is an
exploration of marriage and the
importance of communication in
maintaining a long-lasting
relationship.”

The cast of the play includes
freshman Ligia Abreu as Sylvia,
senior Kris Pollina as Kate and
sophomore Joe Harouni as Greg.
Mike Diverio, Sarah Sager and
Meredith Hibbard play supporting
characters. These individuals play
friends of the couple that take sides

with either Greg or Kate in their

ongoing debate over whether or not
to keep Sylvia.

The cast members are very
excited about the play, despite the

PAGE 5

OUR 'lX

What is the problem with this love tr:iangle.R Sylvia happens
to be a french poodle. This hilarious comedy shows us what
our lives would be like if our pets could only talk back.

strenuous practice schedule that

they have adhered to. Ligia
Abreu says “I read the script and
thought it was a hilarious
comedy. The minute I read it I
knew I wanted to be involved
with it in some way. I was
unbelievably excited when I was
cast, and I’m still excited to be
working with the great and
talented group of people who are
involved with the show.”

This humorous play will be
performed on Saturday, May 3 at 8
p.m., Sunday, May 4 at 2 p.m. and 8
p.m., and Monday, May 5 at 8 p.m.
All of the performances will take
place in the Johnson Theatre of the
Lenfest Center. Admission is free
for the entire university
community, and no tickets are
required.

Dance the night away at Lenfest

W&L Dance bids a fond farewell to the seniors who have made this year’s work possible

SRE B.\NER|EE/ the RirIg—l/it/IP/I

DANCING ON AIR: W&L Dance ballerinas dazzle the crowds in Lenfest during Saturday night’s dance performance.

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER

STAFF WRITER

Every year Washington and Lee performs two
dance shows, one in the winter and one in the spring.
The Winter show was comprised of a great deal of
ballet, choreographed by Melissa Belcher, as well as
The spring show
however, has a very different ﬂavor to it and has the
ability to appeal to a great deal of people. Whether
you enjoy the classic feel of a ballet piece, the
intensity of a tap number, the energy of jazz or the
street feel of hip hop, you can experience it all at the

an interpretive modern piece.

show.

The girls who participate in ballet work off campus
at Belcher’s studio and put in many hours to perfect
their technique and style. The Jazz, Tap, and Hip Hop
Dancers also meet several times a week to review turns,

combinations, and choreography.

Freshman Lyndsay Polloway is the head Jazz
instructor and has put many hours working with the
dancers on “Born to be Wild”, keeping it both technical
andentertaining. Freshman Katherine Fischer is the
Head Hip Hop instructor and used her many years of
experience with this style to create a piece for a
multitude of ability levels. Mary Christopher, also a

freshman, is the Head Tap instructor and has
choreographed both a Broadway style tap piece and
a more modern piece to feature graduating senior,

Catherine Satterﬁeld. Satterﬁeld recalls having a great
time throughout her years dancing with the ensemble.
She has done such a great variety of pieces and
enjoyed all of them.

The three choreographers spend a great deal of
time not only creating dances, but organizing and
structuring the program as well. Polloway said, “The
girls have worked so hard.and deserve the chance to
shine and show off their abilities!”

Robin Okin is another graduating senior who

choreographed a showcase piece “Over the Rainbow”,

sung by Eva Cassidy, with Belcher.
performed Appalachian Suite, an Elvis Suite, and
variations to Bach and Glasnov music, with the ballet
ensemble. When asked to reﬂect on her experience

Okin also

with the ensemble she remarked, “my four years at

too.”

W&L would not have been as fulﬁlling if I had not
‘participated in W&L Dance. I’ve met some great
people and have had some well... goofy and fun times

Although the ensemble graduates two women, it is
very young, comprised of many freshmen, and has much
promise for the future.

    

l’A.GE._6. . 

 ARTS & nu;

PRIDE opens its doors to students

BY LAURA LEIGH BIRDWELI.
S'[‘.\l5l3 WRITER

As humans, we strive to
create ourown identity — to be a
person unlike any other person
who has ever walked on this earth.
Whether you want to explain this
phenomenon in terms of biology,
sociology, psychology, or
philosophy is beside the point.
The point here is that our
creativity is the source of our
humanity, distinguishing us from
all other species, permitting us to
be unique individuals. And it is
through the expression of
creativity, thinking as an
individual and the desire to be a
distinctive self that a diverse
community is created.

Diversity does not refer solely
to different ethnicities or to
differences in cultural or personal
background. It is not limited to nose
rings or colorful tattoos, to blue hair
or red tennis shoes. On the contrary,
diversity has no limits. For example,
how do you eat an oreo? Do you
prefer to dip in it milk, anxiously
waiting that moment when the
chocolate crust becomes soggy? Or
do you prefer to spread peanut butter
on top, with a glass of milk on the
side? Or better yet, how do you like
to party? Do you prefer the close-
knit quarters of a friend’s house, a
pitcher of beer at the Palms, or a
fraternity party with the Right—On
Band playing the all—too familiar tunes
of Motown?

Diversity is limited only by the
source ofideas. It refers to the way
each person views life, enjoys life,
and seeks to conduct that life. For
this reason diversity is most
prominent within colleges and
college life. College constitutes
those moments in life when, more
than ever, we, as ambitious,
youthful, and vivacious beings,
are seeking how to live our lives,
seeking answers to crucial
questions about the best way to
live, and the proper roles we
should fulfill as students, as

  

MIX DoN’T MATCH: Avery Gholston ‘O3, Cristin Nunez ‘O5, and Kyle Meehan ‘O5 participate in a PRIDE event earlier
this year in which students went to the dining hall and met new people while dressed in clothes that did not match.

citizens of America, and as human
beings.

If Washington and Lee
University is to preserve and
promote these reﬂections and help
its students develop and grow as
individuals, it must also preserve
the already existing diversity, as
well as bring it to a higher level.
With small classes focused on
discussion, with the liberal arts
curriculum and with professors
who encourage student papers to
be a reflection of one’s own
thoughts as opposed to mere
regurgitations of memorizations,
Washington and Lee does indeed
foster a diverse educational
experience — it instigates the
exchange of ideas and
development of one’s own
thoughts and ideas, which is a
crucial step for ensuring the
existence of diversity.

These aspects I have just
described, however, are a bit
beyond the reach of most of the
student body. Yet the power of the
student body should not be
underestimated. While the
preservation of the already existing
diversity lies in the hands of the
administration, the students have

the power to bring this diversity to
the higher level. PRIDE
(Programming for the Respect of
Individuals and Diversity in
Education) is an organization that
seeks to celebrate the diversity of
life, on all levels of education.
Though its purpose shall remain,
how it is to function as an
organization is on the verge of a
transition, its fate to be determined
by the students.

On this coming Tuesday,
April 29 at 8p.m. in Northern
Auditorium, PRIDE will be holding
an open forum for the discussion
of how to increase student
interaction on campus. The forum
will address the need for an
increased degree of interaction
between student organizations
and groups. As is, W&L has a
wonderful mix of talent and
leadership within each of the
many individual organizations. Yet
if the students want to achieve
change on campus, if they want
to make a difference and have
their voices heard they must be
in unison, working together as a
collaborative effort.

I ask that all leaders from every
arena — from GCF to the basketball

team, from the fraternities and
sororities to Nabors, from MSA to the
peer counselors — whatever
organization you represent, I ask that
you make an appearance to the
community forum and speak your
mind about the issue of community
at Washington and Lee and how we
as students and our organizations
can interact as a whole, thereby
strengthening our student body
voice.

Mike Morrow, the co—president
of PRIDE, said that “integration at
this university is possible...when
different people of different groups
unite in the pursuit of common
goals... Inherent in Dr. King’s
vision for an equal America is the
notion of unity. He envisioned an
integrated multicultural nation with
sons of slaves and sons of former
slave owners sitting together at the
table of brotherhood. If W&L
desires both unity and diversity, it
must make efforts to see that the
same opportunities and benefits are
extended to all members. And if we
as students are to have a say in the
matter, we must unite ourselves and
discuss these issues. That is the
purpose of the community forum on
Tuesday.”

‘I51 Puoro / the Rmg-tum bi

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

Write for Arts & Life!

 
 

   

%_IamS1.000-Smoﬂoforyuwsludenlﬁrollp
lusts ho

- -College mdrai4s.:ér*.

 
 
   

 
 

  

. ode Simple, Satin‘: and Free,

Muﬁigaiua tuntiraising optima zrwrielriaie. No  No minus. Just suwesst
Fwuﬁwklltg dsvztaézs em rum»; qptdely. get with the rt:-graiarr; that world

Iii:-rzr Tnweaxi 3191075‘! for Catlege Fmnfmirirng.
838-923 -32. 3 8 »- ww=.a:.c.am;:m'sf:t:nciraisemcrsm

\

Room at 2nd Polehouse
for rent

June 2003-May 2004
$410 a month, 5 hot roomies
Contact (254) 717-4039 or
|dcyc@w|u.edu if interested

FOR RENT

312 E. Washington
House can accomodate 4 students: 4 bedrooms,
2 baths, living room, kitchen, dining room and
study. Excellent off—street parking.
$1,000 per month.

110 E. Washington
House can accomodate 2-3 students:
2-3 bedrooms, 2 baths, living room,
dining room, kitchen.
$750.00 per month.

Call Pat Aldred, Mead Associates, Realtors, at
463-7168

7 East Be erley Street - Staunton, VA - 540-886-8666 - Hours: Mon—Sat: 10am-9pm; Sun: 12am-6pm

*.

1

.>,

3'»

l’

r

ERINJLIIUS
,Si=oRIs EDIIOR

13m—'IIIUsE@ivIu.e>U

IIIR RING~TUI\I PHI

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

“Baseball 1

BY JOHN HYLAND
4. SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee base-
ball team placed second in the ODAC
tournament, falling to Virginia

‘Wesleyan, 1 1-3, in the title game yes-
terday inWinston Salem, North Caro-
It was the third time in school his-

/‘tory that the Generals had reached the

championship game, and the first
since 1999.

The Generals opened the double-
elirnination tournament with a 16-1

"thrashing of Lynchburg last Thurs-

day. Junior catcher Bryan Mulhern led
the offensive onslaught by going 4
for 6 with two runs scored and four

‘RBIs.

" ‘ Sophomore designated hitter
Zach Bausch went 3 for 4 with a run
scored and four RBIs and senior short-
stop Michael Hanson added a three-

’~zuri homer.

Junior left—hander Peter Dean
pitched superbly, going the full
nine innings for his sixth complete

[game of the year, allowing only ﬁve
hits and striking out eight to im-
prove his record to 7-2 on the sea-
son. The easy victory allowed the
Generals to rest some of their start-

*4ers and stay fresh for the four day

tournament.
On Friday, the Generals faced
Bridgewater. Junior right-hander
"Dan Kagey got the start and al-
lowed only one run through seven
innings, leaving the game with the
“score tied at 1. The Generals lone

PORTS    
oses ODACs, nd DAC season 26-7 overall

HIE PHOTO

HOME RUN. Washington and Lee’s Austin Allain, ‘O4 bats in a game played earlier this season.

run came when Bausch scored on
a wild pitch in the fifth inning.
W&L broke the tie in the top of
the ninth with a two-out RBI
single from senior centerfielder
Bobby Littlehale which scored
Hanson. Freshman Taylor
McConnell came in as a pinch hit-
ter and delivered an insurance run
with a single that scored
Littlehale. Both General runs were

unearned.

Hanson, who replaced Kagey
on the mound in the eighth inning,
pitched a scoreless ninth to earn
his second victory of the season.
The win was the Generals 24th of
the season, breaking the school
record for wins in a season which
had been set in 2001.

The win advanced W&L to a
Saturday morning meeting with

‘LAX attack. Gavin Molinelli ‘O5 blazes through defenders during a game earlier this term.

first seeded Virginia Wesleyan.
The Generals opened the scoring
with two runs in the second with
an RBI single from the pitcher,
Mulhern. It was Mulhern’s 46th
RBI of the year, giving him the
single season record in W&L
school history.

However, it would be the only
offense that the Generals could
muster on the afternoon. The Mar-

I~1lEl’HOTO

lins came back with two runs in the
fourth and two more in the sixth en
route to a 7-2 victory. The Generals-
committed four errors, which did not
help their cause as only two of the
four l’l1l'lS that Mulhern gave up were
earned. ‘

The loss forced the Generals
into an elimination game against
Bridgewater on Saturday night.
W&L produced four runs in the
third inning, including a two-run
double from senior ﬁrst baseman
Brian Gladysz, to open a four run
lead that they would not relinquish.
Bausch went 3 for 4 on the night,
with a run scored and an RBI to help
the Generals to a 6-4 victory. Jun-
ior right-hander got the win, pitch-
ing six innings, allowing three runs,
one earned to improve his record
to 5-1 on the year. Hanson had an-
other solid outing in relief, allow-
ing one run over the ﬁnal three in-
nings.

The victory placed the Generals
into yesterday’s championship with
Virginia Wesleyan. However, the
Generals would need two wins to
earn the ODAC crown since the Mar-
lins had yet to lose in the touma-
ment.

W&L took a 2-0 lead on the
Marlins in the third inning on
their shortstop’s throwing error,
scoring Gladysz and Hanson. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan came back to
score two runs in the fifth and
another in the sixth off of Dean,
pitching on only two days rest,
to take a 3-2 lead.

PAGE 7

The Marlins took their lead into
the ninth inning, just three outs away
from the championship but an RBI
single from McConnell scored
Mulhern to tie the game at3 and force
extra imrings.

The Generals took the lead in
the top of the eleventh when
Mulhern scored on Bausch’s
groundout, only to have the score

tied again at 4 in the bottom of the I

inning. W&L scored again in the

twelfth on an RBI single from :

Gladysz that scored junior second I

baseman Austin Allain. This time, -

Wert, who had entered the game in .

the seventh inning, was able to hold <

off the Marlins and earn his second
win in as many days.

The dramatic victory forced a "

second game yesterday afternoon

to determine the ODAC champion. ’

The Generals, however, appeared
worn out from the outset, playing
their fourth game in two days. The
Marlins scored in each of the first

five innings, to open an 8-0 lead. .
The starter, Kagey, allowed the‘

first eight runs on twelve hits but
he was not helped out by his de-
fense.

The Generals committed four er-
rors on the afternoon as only six of

the eleven runs that Kagey and"

sophomore right-hander Ken Hack-

man surrendered were earned. The ‘

Generals bats produced eleven hits
but only three I'lJIlS as W&L left thir-
teen runners on base.

Virginia Wesleyan cruised to an
1 1-3 victory and their fourth

Men’s LAX loses
ODAC title to Lynchburg

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Men’s lacrosse lost the ODAC
tournament championship game, 6-5,
to Lynchburg when Lynchburg’s
Kevin Reinecke scored with nine sec- .
onds remaining in overtime. This year
marks Lynchburg’s first-ever ODAC
Championship.

The game remained close
throughout, with neither team ever
leading by more than a point. Going
into halﬁime, the Generals had a 3-2
lead after midﬁelder Dustin Martin,
’04, scored with 9:01 remaining in the
second period.

The Hornets then snatched the
lead away when Billy McCulloch and
Reinecke both scored, taking a 4-3
lead. Going into the fourth period,

the Generals tied the score when
Martin scored again. During the
fourth period, the Generals scored
first, with attackrnan Matt Fink, ’04,
scored his second goal of the game.
The Hornets then tied the game

again, when Joe Matta scored with T

7:15 remaining.

Reinecke won the game for the .

Hornets when «he scored in over-
time; it was his third goal of the
game.

Fink and Martin led the Generals ’

in scoring, with two goals each.

The Generals take to the field
again on Saturday as it hosts Lime-
stone for a 1:30 pm contest. The Gen-
erals will then wait to see if they re-
ceive an at-large bid to the NCAA
Division III Tournament.

_Track teams each take fourth in ODACs

Individuals have good pen‘ormances, teams prepare for last meets on the weekend of May 10

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
‘K SPORTS WRITER

The race comes to an end for the
Generals, with many strong perfor-
mances

It It was Saturday morning and
everyone was up! Many were clad
in cute attire on their way to F oxﬁeld
for a day of socializing. and fun, but
not the runners. The Generals track

earn was preparing for‘ their ﬁnal
meet, the Outdoor ODAC champi-
onships. The day started out cold
and overcast but the Generals

.«headed to Roanoke and remained
optimistic.

Eventually the sun peaked
through the clouds and the races were
going great, people were running per-

isonal records left and right and the
coaches were ecstatic.

With two events to go, the rain
rolled in and brought with in thunder

‘and lightening; resulting in the post-
ponement of the mens’ 5,000 and the
4 by 400 relay teams. 1

Soon all the events were ﬁnished and
both the men’s and women’s teams placed

-‘fourth in the ODAC Championships.

‘ The women had an excellent per-
formance. In the 100m dash Meredith
Walker took 7th with her time of 13 .70.

‘In the  Kim Gunst took 4th with a

e
I
'3

1.05.42, Angel Daniels got 8th with a
1.09.21, and Casey Sharpe got 9th with
her 1.12.27. Liz Twentyman had a solid
performance giving her 5th with her
time of 2.35.20 in the 800-m, while Erin
Johnson got 6th with her 2.35.70, Mary
Christopher got 7th with 2.37.10, and
Meghan Ward got 9th with her
2.40.50.

Mary Christopher won 3rd place
with her time of 5:08.50, and Meghan
ward earned 6th place with a 5: 15.43
in the 1500. Betsy Frayer ran a great
5000 ﬁnishing second with her time
of 19.10. Ashley Brown, Samantha
Snabes, and Jessica Remnert also
ran the event finishing, 9th , 10th ,
and 12th respectively. In the High
Jump Angel Daniels got 3rd with her
height of 4 ’ 10. Long Jumper
Meredith Walker got 6th with her
distance of l5’07.50. In the shot put
Emily Barker won 3rd with a 36’04
while in the discus and Javelin she
won 7th.

The men also had some excellent
individual performances. In the 100m
Brian Krupczak won 2nd with a 1 1.03,
Sullivan 5th with arrl 1.20, and Brimer
6th with an 1 1.29. In the 200m dash
Krupczak ﬁnished 3rd in 22.44 and
Brimer ﬁfth with 23.01.

In the 800m, Steve Chambers was
7th with a 2.02.40, Rusty Meyer was

9th with a 2.02.60, and Matt Reilley
was 13th with a 2.05. Rusty also ran
the l500m and completed it in 4.12
earning him 8th place. In the 5000m
Andrew Johnson finished 9th with a
16.36.70.

The men’s relay team, the 4 by
100m, ﬁnished second and for the
long jump Sullivan ﬁnished ﬁrst and
Krupczak second.

It was a great way to finish the
season and the coaches are proud of

COL’R'I11S&'()l‘0t).l(]-[JOHN Tum-1R
RUN. Lee Stirmett, ‘04, races a relay during Saturday’s ODACs.

the many accomplishments of the ath-
letes! Way to go Generals!

The men’s track team will
compete in the James Madison In-
vitational on Saturday, May 10
while the women travel to the UNC
Last Chance Invitational that week-
end.

The NCAA Championships will
be held Thursday, May 22 through
Saturday, May 24 at a time to be an-
nounced.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee ’s women’s
tennis team won its eighth consecu-
tive ODAC Championship on Sun-
day in a match played at Sweet Briar
College inArnhearst, Virginia. The
Generals won the No. 1-6 single
spots and the No. 1-3 doubles.

Erika Proko, ’03, took the No. 1
singles spot with a 6- 1 , 6-3 win over
Roanoke ’s Ashley Fleming. Laura
Bruno, ’03, won 6-1, 4-6, 10-5 over
Randolph-Macon’s Brooke Lambert
for the No. 2 spot. Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth, ’03, defeated Hollins’
Cayce Schnare 6-4, 6-1 for the No. 3

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Over Springbreak,Washingtonand
Lee’sgolftearrrwaittotlieODACCnam-
pionships held at the Olde Mill Resort in
LaurelFork,VAonApril2l and22. The
teamtookthirdinaﬁeldofnine.

Guilford took ﬁrst for the fourth
consecutive year, with Hampden-
Sydney in second, followed by Wash-

Randolph-Macon, Virginia Wesleyan,
Lynchburg and Emory & Henry com-
pleted the turnout.

The Generals recorded 319 in

ington and Lee. Roanoke, Bridgewater,_

Women take tennis ODACs

spot. Lisa Mabry, ’06, Elizabeth Law,
’04, and Megan Curran, ’06, won
spots 4-6 with wins over women from
Hollins.

As for doubles action, Bruno
and Mabry doubled up to win the
No. 1 title with an 8-3 victory against
Bridgewater’s Anne Yust and Holly
Egrior. Law andLoraFarris, ’05, won
the No.2 spot in doubles with a vic-
tory over Randolph-Macon’s Ste-
fanie Mills andAmy Iden. Proko and
Wedgeworth took the No. 3 doubles
championship with their 8-3 win over
Hollins’ Chnare and Olsen.

The Generals will begin to play
in the Division HI NCAA Champi-
onship on Saturdaym May 3.

Golf takes 3rd in ODACs

the opening round, followed by 327
for a two-day total of 646. Guilford
shot a total of 63 1 with Ha.rnpden-
Sydney close behind with 636.

As for individual results, Chuck
Green, ’03, was the General’s best,
ﬁnishing fourth with rounds of 76-80
fora ﬁnal score of 156. Chip Campbell
ﬁnished with 163, Ged Johnson with
164, Cullen Toole with 168, Tom Borda
with 169 and Matt Bart with 185.

The Generals have two more tour-
naments thisyear. One attheUniversity
otDelaware(x1April26-27andtheNCAA
Championships inOhioMay 12-15.

  Phi sports. Contact Erin at X4060 to get into the game.

PAGE 8

 

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

Sl5ORTS

Women’s LAX wins its 15th consecuive garn, takes ODACS

Com’ G.\BB.\RD / T/;eRirig—Tm P/ii

ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS. An enthusiastic fan gets into the festive spirit during Saturday’s ODAC championship lacrosse game.

BY DONNY BANKS
ASSISTANT‘ SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team pummeled
Sweet Briar College, 20-3 , on Wednes-
day at the Liberty Hall Fields in the
ﬁrst round of the ODAC Tournament.

3”’ _
'79 . V6
7 "ti
:§%9§W‘"

i
. 
M3

 

E
tg S, ’, 5‘ 2»,

  

é

.crg;

uéic

it
May 12

Jaéaaiétzei    
Mondays 7:30-10:30--BDG Quad (Rainsite: G 0

 °tiieWi'3“~§Lt:i.<.?zl

\.

It was the team’s 13th straight victory,
a school record.

Although the two teams ex-
changed goals early in the first quar-
ter, the Generals dominated the rest
of the ﬁrst half. After a 14-0 run, W&L
led 15-1 going into the third quarter.

“Our team seemed well prepared,

     
 
 

”“‘-\
-~<

escriiziﬁoniiéiizginal roots roc

, Lloyd Dobler Effect

3  i,it$is;:i%e9*ié£iiéir%§,‘¥E£3§i“i%*°%‘§late: a
Fan Fan & Friends M“ , ,

Music Description: Carribean mix of jazz and reggae I

Me}? a  it  t*‘Wl33l§«i§fili§li¥eW9

,.;,_.\-¢.,,,,

.~!A\<«

Eaagiirdawiieotiti I  
Kirsch and Brandon Watfdell) “  it to‘ t‘ ’ "  ‘J’ * 0"“
A Music Descriptionzsongs you know by heart 1 . 

Mai?    

Music Description: meloﬁc, guitar-d

riven 1' OC

and we really came to play against a
much improved Sweet Briar squad,”
Head Coach Jan Hathom commented.

The Generals, who already de-
feated the Vixens earlier in the year in
regular play, continued to run things
in the second half, holding a 38-7 ad-
vantage in shots, a 47-24 edge in

 
  

e  t:i%<;t

 C»i~ii.{:}.,,_

2;:

~“x

Git C2,,

i.i"t»:?:1*?
k

ground balls, and forcing 21 tum-
overs.

Freshman midﬁelder Katharine
Lester notched a hat trick, and Leslie
Bogart, Natalya Hoobchaak, Erin
Rathbone, Amanda Strickler, Kelly
Taffe, and Lee Wheeler all had two
goals. Hoobchaak (3), Bogart (2),

Wheeler (2), and Laura Wilson (2) also
signiﬁcantly contributed in assists.

On Saturday, the Generals played
Virginia Wesleyan at home in the semi-
finals. “We’l1 tweak a few things, but
VW will certainly do everything it can
to slow down our ball movement, so
we’ll have to be ready to step up,”
said Coach Hathom heading into the
matchup. 1

The team got off to a tough start,
with VW scoring within the ﬁrst 59
seconds, but it then rebounded with
a 4-0 run had a 5 point surge to lead
9-3 at halftime. Taffe led the team in
scoring with four goals and one as-
sist, followed closely by Bogart with
two goals and three assists, and
Hoobchak with three goals.
Goaltender Joanna Perini had 13
saves. .

On Sunday, Washington & Lee
won its 15th straight game beating
Roanoke 11 to 7 to win the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference women’s
lacrosse championship.

The Maroons started off the

9:1;
<—'wvn2¢-a.<,«., ,,
‘:f'.vx¥ vivﬁyyﬁxv

éuuxwvnzvnion
W4 61»-v2u4,u.orp;;4 -1’ 14-1
. ,if¢a»»4~o«1uv»as»

Corn‘ (JABBARD/THE RING-T’l‘u;\1 PH1

SCORE. Kelly Taffe attempts to score during Saturday’s game.
iscoring but were quickly answered by

four goals from the Generals. In all,
Kelly Taffe and Lee Wheeler led the
team with, three goals a piece and
Leslie Bogart scored one goal with
four assists. Erin Rathborne scored
twice, and junior Joarma Perini played
well in goal with nine saves.

“We came in with a strong
mindset and confident attitude,”
freshman attacker Laing Humphries
said. “It seemed like a solid contribu-
tion by everyone, and it was just an
overall good performance.”

This win tied the school record
for wins in a season (15), and it means
that the lacrosse team will have an
automatic bid to the NCAA Division
III Tournament.

“Making it to the national tour-
nament has been a goal of ours from
the beginning, so it should prove ex-
citing to see what we accomplish and
where we go,” Humphries added.

Washington and Lee (15-1) will
play again on Saturday at noon when
it hosts Longwood.

3
Bl

  

    

 
  

 
 
   

 Fnagﬁeid   4  rax.ﬁaa$.* emanate 

 Slzllni ﬁliilii §€ZI§§3‘§%{1Li°E

mt

  enema  

9%

. ‘5 11;? §lliIrmou:3..s&m— 'i:Mll1€slaIvﬁ.‘.::£lF§ﬁ" :n5-,;a1_.-

 enema Q    t-lawn inlet-tea  ?l3i§3‘“a 

m
95

LL
9-

 

 

RELAX, REFRESH, RENEW.

 

Cascades Day Spa is NOW OPEN and accepting appointments for body and skin care.
We provide a professional and educational environment for your total well being.
Cascades Day Spa is located in the newest building in the rear of Magnolia Square.

I

We are also pleased to announce a Grand Opening Celebration
Tuesday April 29th, with a ribbon cutting at 10 am.
Come by for a tour and relaxing sample treatments.

CASCADES

DAY,/V—-&®,;sPA

For an appointment, please call 540.463.2888 or visit the spa located at
40 Magnolia Square Way, Suite 4, off Lee Hwy N., Lexington

air

)1

I

 

