 

BY }EB BROOKS
AssOcI.ITE EDITOR

Laurent Boetsch announced Fri-
day that he will no longer serve as
University Provost. Boetsch, who
has served in the newly-created ‘po-

“~ sition of Provost since last summer,
said, he made the decision to step
down months ago, but only recently

"i
J

announced his decision to the Presi-
dent.

“I did not want to be a lame duck
for any longer than (I) have to be,” he
said. ‘There were many important de-
cisions coming out of the Provost’s of-
ﬁce (that would have been negatively
impacted by his impending move).”

Boetsch said that he felt no pres-
sure from anyone about the decision.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

W  ~  The student were of Washington and Lee Ullr'l/errny nine 7897 (P
Boetsch does not want to be ‘lame duck’ Provost any more

‘ His impending decision to step down as administrator, resume teaching is unrelated to not being named University President, current school ﬁnancial crisis

He said “we made the decision en-
tirely on our own” referring to his wife,
Elizabeth. He said that the decision,
“certainly” did not have anything to
do with not being named President of
the University. The office was de-
signed with “no long term comrnit-
ment,” Boetsch said.

With seven years in the admin-
istration under his belt, Boetsch will

return to the classroom. He will teach
in the Romance Languages depart-
ment and work closely with the Inter-
disciplinary and Global Stewardship
programs.

University President Thomas
Burish expressed his appreciation for
Boetsch’s contributions. The Presi-
dent said, “(Boetsch has) excelled in
every area in which he’s been asked to

  

‘v‘m6:«~’£“:s'~zar'=

 i’_.Wé::'Jﬁ¢-J 5__jﬁi'§;",ﬁY

 Ni: ii  UN!!}6iTY
I..x‘;* ”>":'T :"r.’<!, W-. 

. 1

VOLUME CVl,NO.lll

PHI

contribute.” Boetsch’s move had noth-
ing to do with the school’s ﬁnancial
situation, according to the President.
The position of Provost will con-
tinue to be ﬁlled by Boetsch until the
end of the ﬁscal year. President Burish
has asked the faculty to submit nomina-
tions for the position by the end of this
week. Burish plans to announce his de-
cision by the end of the academic year.

MONDAY, MAY 12, 2003

Boetsch will be on a one year
leave beginning July 1. During
the leave, he hopes to, “retool a
little bit” for the classroom. His
plans include traveling to Spain
and Italy.

Boetsch said that his greatest
achievement while in ofﬁce was be-
ing able to hire so many “great people
and great teachers.”

“Mock Convention Kicko ‘recon iurates’ camu

ROCK ON, MocK CON. (Above) Rev. Al Sh hptori answers a question in front of the cenotaph of Robert E. Lee
during a press conference in Lee Chapel hursday. Sharpton admitted that he had probably notswayei? any voters
during his speech on the Front Lawn immediately preceeding the press conference. (Top Right) Approximately 1000

BY ERIN JULIUS AND MARY CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS EDITOR AND STAFF WRITER

Wednesday saw the ﬁrst of the 2004 Mock Democratic
Convention’s ofﬁcial kick-ofi" events. Washington and Lee’s
College Republicans took on the Young Democrats in
a debate over President Bush’s original tax cut plan. Each
side answered ﬁve questions from the audience, the Col-
lege Republicans making inventive use of colorful charts
and graphs. After a ﬁerce debate lasting over an hour, the
two faculty moderators, professors John Gunn and Roger
Dean declared the College Republicans the winners.

The Reverend Al Sharpton’s speech was clearly the
highlight of the mock convention’s weekend kick-off.
Approximately 1000 W&L students lounged on the front
lawn Thursday aﬁemoon listening to the Democratic presi-
dential hopeful. Sharpton focused on his platform issues.
He had three major points—dealing with terrorism using
means other than the military, revamping the criminal jus-
tice system to make it more fair and social issues such as
healthcare and education programs.

Sharpton made frequent reference to the importance
of the electoral process and the need for voters to get
involved. “We need to ﬁnd ways to bring voters into the

Turnout successful
for Cystic Fibrosis ball

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
STAFF WRITER

“Swipe it home,” “Please just purchase one ticket,” “This is
the lastthinglwillmakeyoubuy, “Itwillbelots ofﬁniweprom-
ise,” “Tell all your ﬁiends;” these are just some of the things you
mayhaveheardwhenwalkingbytheCoopthispastweek'IheW
& L community realized the importance of the Cystic Fibrosis
Charity Ball and did the best they could to contribute.

Cystic Fibrosis is a genetically acquired disease that short-
ens ones life span signiﬁcantly. It is a multi~system disease that
affects the lungs and digestive systems. As the patients age
increases so does the severity of the problems. With this knowl-
edge, many students felt the need to contribute to the ﬁght
against this life-terminating disease by attending the fund
raising ball.

Due to the overabundance of activities this week-
end, it was difficult to obtain a large attendance, but the
turnout was still good. People came dressed in all sorts
of attire from black tie, to suits, to khakis. The music was
outstanding, the food was great, and the enthusiasm
was high! Freshman Will Kahn said, “it was such a great
opportunity; it is not Oﬂen at W & L, that you ﬁnd your-
self swing dancing with an orchestra while sipping punch,
not spiked, from a crystal glass.” In addition to a variety
of students there was also a large showing of faculty
members present. It was greater to watch the “older
members” at the ball break out their dancing shoes.

electoral process and it will change the dynamics,” said
Sharpton. He was critical of the Voting situation in the
US, commenting on the “Civil war-type machinery for vot-
ing” versus the up-to-date system for giving out parking
tickets.

He also criticized the Democratic party for being
“cheap imitations” of the Republi- .
cans. “Democratic nominees must ' i‘
stand for something, go outside
the box and bring people in,” he
said.

Sharpton’s goal concerning
party politics is to overhaul the
Democratic party. “It is time to
reconﬁgurate what we’re gonna do
with the Democratic arrangement,” regarding labor and
African-Americans.

Sharpton also criticized many of President Bush’s poli-
cies. “Bush is the biggest deﬁcit spender in the history of
the US and we are not challenging that,” he said.

In reference to the Occupation of Iraq, “what about
the 50 states we already occupy?” Sharpton asked.

After his speech, Sharpton visited Robert E. Lee’s
grave and noted that he did not think he had swayed

In reference to the occupation of
Iraq, “What about the 50 states
we already occupy?”

THE REV. DR. AL SHARPTON

is g rel’

any W&L voters with his speech. Morris disagreed,
saying that he, “could see a lot of heads nodding”
during Sharpton’s speech and explaining that there is
a connection between the left wing of the Democratic
party and the right wing of the Republican party—
both are very much in opposition to mainstream Demo-
crats.

Political operative Dick Mor-
ris paved the way for Sharpton’s
speech. He started offby discuss-
ing the three ways to run for of-
ﬁce. You either run to win, advance
your career or raise important
views and issues that need na-
tional attention. He remarked that
politics was, “assuming leverage for what you be-
lieve.”

He commented on a variety of candidates includ-
ing Joe Lieberman, John Edwards, John Kerry and Dick
Gephardt, and each’s ability to win the democratic nomi-
nation. One interesting remark he made pertained to
Edwards whom he felt, “slit his own throat” through
his fund-raising. Edwards has raised seven million for
his campaign from plaintiff law ﬁrms. Paralegals at these

RAIN, RAIN, GO ARHY

BY CHRIs LAUDERMAN
srirr WRITER

 

, H W , , K, , . _ g _lEE BROOKS / The Ringtrrrn Phi
students, faculty and other interested individuals attended the event where Dick Morris and Al Sharpton spoke.
(Bottom Right) Donna Brazile, the first African-American to chair a presidential campaign, spoke to crowds in Lee
Chapel Friday afternoon.

ﬁrms make $18,000 and if they donate $2,000 each, the
situation becomes quite skeptical or otherwise a class
B felony. In the words of Morris, “he is going to have
indictments raining down on his donor list.” He called
Edwards fundraising, “ritual kamikaze suicide.”

Morris, University of Virginia Professor Larry Sabato,
Charlie Cook and W&L Professor William Connelly par-
ticipated in the issues forum Thursday evening. Charlie
Cook is the author of The Cook Report and is currently a
consultant for NBC News. The four men took questions
from the audience regarding everything from the effect
that Lieberrnan’s religion will have on his campaign to the
role that health care issues will play in the 2004 election.
Morris called health care, “the phoniest darrm issue ever
invented.” »

Friday aﬁemoon another distinguished political op-
erative spoke. Donna Brazile, a veteran Democratic politi-
cal strategist spoke about her work on political campaigns.

This weekend’s mock convention brought an variety
of notable political authorities to Washington and Lee’s
campus. All the events had excellent tum-outs and, truly,
it was a notable moment when the Reverend Al Sharpton
spoke to the student body of the school known as being
“most nostalgic for Reagan.”

Service day declared a success

vices, help setting up new playground equipment and
cleaning for Project Horizon, a car wash to beneﬁt the
Rockbridge Area Transportation System, spreading

_]EB BROOKS / The Ring-Item Phi
So LONG, LAW KIDS. Dean of the Law School David Partlett spoke to a
packed Doremus gymnasium Sunday afternoon during Law School
Commencement. The threat of rain pushed the ceremony inside.

Saturday, May 10 marked the fiﬁh armual
Nabors Service Day. Approximately 200 students

and faculty participated in 13 projects in Rockbridge .

County. “I was nervous about not getting enough
students because of Jonathon (N abors’s) class
graduating last year. Today’s turnout proved we
can continue to make Nabors Service Day a suc-
cess,” said co-chair Ashley Thompson.

DeanThomas Williams, Pam Burish and seven
other faculty members worked alongside the stu-
dents. Professor Harlan Beckley also felt that the
day was a success being that this is the ﬁrst year
that Nabors’s class is gone. Nabors died in a car
wreck his freshrrian year, and his classmates de-
signed Nabors Service League and Nabors Ser-
vice Day in honor of him. Ashley Thompson was
impressed with the faculty that showed up for
Nabors, but was disappointed with the faculty
and administration as a whole. Nine is an improve-
ment from last year, but one of next year’s goals is
to get each of the department heads or at least one
member of each department to participate.

This year’s service day included thirteen events
for students to choose ﬁ'om in addition to the Relay
for Life conducted last Friday. The events included a
pharmacy inventoryattheRocl<bridgeAreaFree Clinic,
loading and taking large chunks of cement to a local
durnpsite for the Rockbridge Area Community Ser-

woodcliips on a playground for Yellow Brick Road,
lawn seeding and minor landscaping at habitat houses
in Buena Vista and Glasgow for Habitat for Humanity,
putting up ﬂyers for Habitat, painting a mural at the
Youth Center at Trinity Methodist Church, Gardening
at Lexington Day School, a carwash for Relay for Life,
walking dogs for SPCA, pruning and ﬂower arranging
at Boxerwoods, and a project at the Mayﬂower.

The
pressed with the students and their excitement to volun-
teer. Studerrtsthnougliorrtﬂiedayeiqzressedthatthey
werehavingagreattirne. FreslnriariKatieVariVeensaitL
“Inhigh school,Iwasveryactiveinvolunteeiism Since
Ihavebeenirileidngtoirlliavenotliadﬂieoppoimriity
topar1icipateinmanyactivities.Iwasreallyg1adtobe
getting back into serving the oornrnimity.”

The ﬁrst McLoughlinAwards were presented
at the beginning of Saturday’s festivities. Junior
Kate Talbert and sophomore Patrick Hastings both
received the award. The award is named in honor
of Stacy McLoughlin ‘02, the founder of Nabors
Service Day and Nabors Service League. ’

Nabors’siather, who attended the event, com-
mentedontlie suocessofthe day. “Iwasthrilledwith
the way the day went.” Thanks to the dedicated stu-
dents ofWasliington and Lee, the ﬁﬁh armual Nabors
Service Day proved to be a major achievement with a
new generation of Washington and Lee students.

 

 

PAGE 2

 



Get your gossip from the Phi

Who doesn’t love a little gossip? Especially
at our clique-centric Dubyuhnell High?

Starting this week, the Phi will be publish-
ing a gossip column, entitled “Page 6,” patterned
after our favorite gossip columnist, the New
York Post’s Liz Smith. Our own New Yorker,
Kate Guy, will be dishing out the dirt on W&L’s
hots and nots. She’ll scour the campus for the
insider nuggets of news about who was seen
with whom and what happened where. Read it
every week to check up on your friends, en-
emies and crushes.

Whom did Erin Julius hook up with? What
did Donna Brazile think about Old South? Which
editor walked home from Downfall Saturday
morning? “Page 6” will tell all!

But we can’t keep up on the campus
clamor all alone, so e-mail your gossip to
pl1i@wlu.edu.

  

By Kate Guy ‘

Associate Editor Jeb! Brooks over-
stayed his welcome at Downfall and was re-
signed to walking home early Saturday mom-
ing. We hear the LexPo was on his trail as he
waded through the Maury.

Attention! Sports Editrix Erin Julius spent
Saturday night increasing the morale of a cer-
tain Keydet.

Bathtub Gin? ! ? Prohibition may be back in
MetroLex because Arts & Life Editor Kate
Guy’s handle of vodka ended up in the shower
stall at 216 N. Randolph, home of the award-
winning Absolut Fratlord, Tim Smith.

Dirty love. Editor in chief Katie Howell spent
the week in knee-deep mud on a rock star geol-
ogy trip. Some say waders resemble hooker boots.

Pythagoras? Rumorhasit Opinions EditorBrett
T. Kirwan is involved in a bizarre multi-racial love
quadrangle with JD, LD and Alice Steinbach.

Finally, we hear Business Manager Tho-
mas “Tommy Baby” Worthy is smitten with
Donna Brazile.

   

 te of the Week

“What’sthat?!?”

~Democratic consultantDom1aB1azile,
uponseeing tl1eKAOld South Fonnal

 

Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Associate Editor Jeb G. Brooks
2nd Associate Editor Kyle Wass
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
iAsst. Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Sports Editor Erin E. Julius
Asst. Sports Editor Donny Banks
Photographers CodyGabbard
Sreya Banerjee

Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address.’ University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

THE RENO-TIIM Pin

Never before have I commented
directly on another column, let alone
one written in The Trident, but
Marinda Harrell’s piece, “Sharpton’s
ideas breathe truth,” (May 7) left me
absolutely bewildered at the source
of her irrational, hysterical hatred for
America and all non-blacks. Having
lived an admittedly insular life, but
considering myself relatively well-in-
formed and free from any racial ani-
mus, her attacks on America, W&L
and “non-blacks” struck me as hyper-
bolic and inﬂammatory.

Harrell began, fairly enough, by
praising Rev. Al Sharpton for being a
courageous leader who is unafraid to
ﬁght for blacks. Intelligent people can
fairly disagree on the Reverend. While
some may see him as standing up for
the rights of the downtrodden, I think
he can be more accurately character-
ized as an ill-inforrned, relentless self-
promoter whose good humor and jo-
vial manner have endeared him to
both whites and blacks, but cannot
obscure his tainted past of inciting
riots and divisive politics. Others, like
Donna Brazile, see him as a trouble-
some gadﬂy who is using the Demo-
cratic Party for his own gain and
threatens the work she has done.

Nonetheless, everyone who at-
tended his speech on Thursday would
agree that he was an entertaining and
captivating speaker and forthrightly
raised many issues that other Demo-
cratic candidates would be hesitant
to discuss.

In her third paragraph, though,
Harrell changes from angrily defend-
ing a man she admires to inexplicably
attacking America and W&L. She ac-
cuses the entire nation of the being
“racist, sexist and homophobic” and
goes on to complain that blacks work-
ing with whites to pursue “the cause
against racism” “must compromise
(their) intellectual outrage” because
working with whites requires one to
“rationalize the greater U.S. commu-
nity as non-racist and normal.”

For starters, these charges are an
outrageous, twisted understanding of
America and a gross

PINIONS  
Why does da ell hate me?  

WINNERS. Michael
\X/illiarns (top left),
Dale \X/ainwright
(top right) and
W/allace Jefferson
(bottom) all won
statewide elections
in Texas in the last
election.

lHOI(B(DL'KIE)Y
ll/WW.Illiihtlf//Z1/l//itI!)I5.t‘0I)7
it/11211/..i'I¢IP/I/t’.t‘0I/77‘J‘.!fﬂft’. txrrr
zuu/zr2.zurz//rrrry'mj’¢'rrorr.r‘o/tr

Harrell goes on to bemoan the
W&L black community’s inability to
“get out of the white normative gaze”
and her inability “to participate in (the
world) equally.” Of course, one
should always make an effort to un-
derstand the viewpoints of others, but
everyone will necessarily view the
world from his own unique perspec-
tive. My views, and those of the vast
majority on campus,

insult to every “non- ml RIGHT OF THE :\jgLE are indeed shaped by
black” student at ‘ our upbringing as
W&L. Labeling me BRETT  KIRWAN  whites in a white-ma-

(and all of America) as

“racist, sexist and homophobic” is the
worst kind of easy ad hominem insult
and is different in no measurable way
from me describing every blackAmeri—
can as lazy, stupid and thieving.

In addition, her charge that coop-
eration with “non-blacks” is deluded
fratemization with the enemy is wicked
denigration of everyone, white and
black, who has ever worked for racial
harmony, civil rights and true equality
before the law. One immediately won-
ders what are Harrell’s thoughts on the
Civil Rights Act, which was passed by
an almost entirely white male Congress
and championed by a white, male
Texan (l) president.

Letter to the Editor

jority nation, but for
Harrell to blame “the issues that
plague the black community” on the
rearing of the white students is to
erect a straw man that can be easily
blamed.

As for her “inability to participate
in (the world) equally,” racism and dis-
crimination are decreasing daily. Our
generation, especially, which has
grown up in a nation entirely free from
Jim Crow laws and lynch mobs, repre-
sents a new opportunity to discard the
prejudices of the past and no longer
assume that every white is racist. Rac-
ism inAmerica is oﬁen perpetuated by
“civil rights” leaders like the Reverends
Shaprton and Jackson whose liveli-

    

hoods depend on always being able
to find new causes about which to lead
marches and hold demonstrations. For
example, Jackson recently shook-
down NASCAR demanding that there
be more black drivers. Could it that
black youths prefer playing basketball
and football rather than institutional-
ized racism at NASCAR?

The visits by Sharpton and
Brazile this weekend were not a time
to dwell on the mistakes of the past,
but to recognize the opportunity and
success that America offers to people
of all colors. George Will recently
wrote a column recording the electoral
success of blacks in the last cycle. In
Texas, for example, three blacks were
simultaneously elected to statewide
positions for the first time ever in any
state. All are Republicans.

Harrell, Sharpton and others who
focus on and believe in a hateful,
negative America create their own
racist dream worlds which are dis-
torted magniﬁcations of perceived
slights. America is not a “racist, sex-
ist, homophobic” nation, but the fre-
est, most accepting and most dynamic
in the history of mankind. Harrell
needs to erase her own hate and em-
brace America for what it truly is.

BRETTT. l<.'1R\rrA1\.«

OPINIONS Eorror

EAiAn;nn\>r.ANB@vrr1i.ir1

MONDAY, MAY 12, 2003 *

Iraqi reconstruction

Last Friday, the UN Security Council met to re-

by the United States, Great Britain, and Spain. All 15
Security Council members were represented at the meet-
ings, including noted anti-war powers France, Russia,
and Germany.

A surprising MODElhiTE,S MUSINGS
f t f th' f t
iiifr:d1(ictiohsto lthse CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

UN proposal was

Though Russian delegate Sergey Lavrov said he had a
“long list of questions” about the proposal, the mood
of the Security Council was surprisingly positive. “The

Negroponte, the U.S. ambassador.

Surprising for a group of powers who argued bit-
terly and stubbornly prior to the war? Certainly. But
what makes this proposal so “constructive” is the plain
common sense and fairness that pervades it. All of its
facets are aimed at rebuilding Iraq in the economic,
political, and humanitarian sectors. A few of the
proposal’s provisions include establishing the U.S. and

Iraq, giving them limited control over establishment of
an Iraqi government, and, more importantly, making
those two nations responsible for upholding the UN’s
basic charter of human rights within Iraq’s borders.

establishing the new government, instead the UN would
have considerable inﬂuence in setting up a new admin-
istration as well. Other UN institutions, such as the
World Health Organization and the World Bank, would
move in as well to reestablish Iraqi basic infrastructure.

, Additionally, the UN, under the proposal, would seize
the assets of former Hussein regime leaders, putting
the money into hurnanitarianism.

posal are those dealing with oil. The proposal calls for
a free Iraqi oil market, with the revenues from oil sales
going directly into a humanitarian and reconstruction
ftmd to be established by the occupying powers (rather
than going straight into their treasuries, a move which
the Bush administration pondered, but eventually dis-
missed as too unfair in the U.S.’s favor). While putting
the sales revenue into reconstruction is not controver-
sial, a completely free Iraqi oil market beneﬁts the
world’s industrialized powers, most notably the United
States. While U.S. demands for access to Iraqi oil sho11ld
come as no surprise to anyone, at least we see that the
Bush and Blair administrations are willing to open up
the market rather than arrange some sort of exclusive
export system. I ' . I ' . A

I More controversially, the proposal calls for a four

been present from the end of the First Gulf War. This
step could be problematic because many European
powers, including most prominently France and Rus-

contractual obligations will be paid off by the occupy-
ing powers, the ﬁiture Iraqi democratic government, or
at all is in doubt, and may cause a considerable snag in
this proposal’s acceptance. *

Nevertheless, the proposal overall is very much
the program that needs to be put in place to begin the
recovery of Iraq. It’s not entirely an idealist’s paradise,
what with the oil shenanigans, but it will do much to-
wards accomplishing the stated goals of the war. If it
also accomplishes those unstated goals related to oil,
that is acceptable if it also accomplishes positive re-
sults in Iraq. France, Russia, Germany, and the citizens
of the United States seem to understand that.

 

   

Hodges defends Spring Term

Dear Editor,

The six-week term exists because it offers unique oppor-
tunities for learning. It allows us to teach classes off campus
and anywhere on the planet. For some subjects, especially
the languages and some sciences (e.g., geology taught in
the Grand Canyon, or biology studied in the Galapagos),
location makes a vast diiference in learning opportunities.
Studying Russian in Moscow rather than in Lexington is to
live Russia, not merely to learn about Russia.

Second, because students can devote full time to one
course of study only, they can be totally absorbed in one
subject for a significant period of time. The study is in-
tense and it allows exploration in greater depth and breadth
than is usually possible in the ordinary run of things.

Those educational advantages are not available in any
of the three calendars the Administration has asked us to
consider. 1) 12- 1 2-6 with students required to enroll in two
courses: You cannot study French in Paris if you must be in
Lexington to study accounting. [Incidentally, that could be

   
 
  

“This is no e to criticize “He ’s a perfect gentleman and
the president.”
-Brooke Sanden ‘06

should be president of the school”
—Chris Kimmel ‘O6

ﬁxed if we were to award six credits for all courses taught
outside Lexington. In fact, in 1973 I did just that for a Spring
Term course in medical ethics.] 2) 13- 1 3-4 might be educa-
tionally sound, provided students enroll in only one course
during the four weeks. The problem is that when we take
into account time for preparation, travel, and acclimation to
a new environment, actual time living and working off carn-
pus is severely limited. 3) 14-14 eliminates all special learn-
ing opporttmities afforded by the short term. Furthermore,
it cheats every student out of two weeks of instruction
each year. Why do we need to do that? That “other schools
are doing it” is not sufﬁcient reason.

The main rationale for this cut seems to be to help in
recruitment of faculty by reducing teaching loads and al-
lowing more time for faculty research. It is said that we are
having difﬁculty attracting “the best people” to Wash-
ington and Lee (which must be a real morale downer for
faculty appointed within the last ten years or so). My
thought is that the “best people” for this University are
those whose primary commitment is to teaching, and whose
research is designed chieﬂy to strengthen teaching, not

 

“What the @#*$%?”
-Kasee Sparks ‘06

“Nice do.”
-Tirn Blair ‘06

to promoting the career of researchers. I weep over the
prospect that we could go from being a ﬁrst rate teaching
institution to being a third-rate research institution.

I conclude, therefore, that none of the three calen-
dars is acceptable for Washington and Lee, unless we

retain the six-week term, require students to take only one ,

course if they study off campus, and award six credits to
those who use the term advantageously.

Finally, there are those who lir1k the calendar question to
the reduction of faculty teaching loads from seven to six courses
per year. No one has explained that linkage to my satisfaction,
a fact I am willing to admit may be merely another reﬂection of
my own mental density. In truth, of course, promise of such a

reduction in “load” is fraudulent because it has been deter- /

mined already that we will not appoint additional faculty. Un-
less we shrink curricular offerings by one-seventh, individual
faculty teaching loads will actually remain the same because

class sizes will increase by one-seventh.

Sincerely,
Louis W. Hodges
Knight Professor of Ethics in Journalism

  

“Who’s Al Sharpton?”
-Catherine Camilletti ‘06

makes progress in UN ”

ceive a first viewing of the post-war Iraq plan drafted 24

the encouraging cooperative attitude that prevailed. L

atmosphere was very constructive,” said John .

the United Kingdom as the “occupying powers” of .

The two powers would not be able to act unilaterally in .

Not surprisingly, the most tricky facets of the pro- '

month phase-out of the oil-for-food program that had ‘

sia, had pre-existing contracts with the Hussein regime «
under the oil-for-food program. Whether or not those A

 

    

‘CATHERINE C GUY

AKlS&LIPEED1’IOR
EMAII;c;iIYo@ixIL'Ei)U

‘MONDAY, MAY 12, 2003

“Welcome to Washington & Lee High

K

Some high school graduates go to colleges that
are close to home. Some try to go as far away as
possible. No matter where they end up,
most high school graduates hope that
college will provide a fresh start, a new
experience, and an escape from high
school.

At W&L, we know this dream is one that can never
be realized. 0

We know what a fantastic school this is, with its
academic merit and its pristine beauty and the
opportimities it gives us. But we also know that socially,
W&L is nothing more than a high school after high

’ school.

W&L’s small size has its advantages. We, of
course, are very familiar with those academic
advantages. These include, but are certainly not limited

tto, small class size, a favorable

A

A

4

A.

faculty-student ratio, and countless
other factors.

Other than these issues and
the others that we have all read in
brochures, the small size also
gives that small-town feeling of
comfort. You never have to look
far to find someone you know, or
at least find someone that you
recognize. And though you may
not always like or understand
everyone around you, at least it’s
better than being trapped and
lonely in a sea of strange and
unfamiliar faces.

Then of course, there are those not-so-nice
aspects of high school that rear their ugly heads in
Lexington. Consider cliques. In high school,whether
it be private or public, so much of our identities are
formed by the cliques in which we claimed
membership.

Like or not, this simply does not end with
graduation from high school. Seriously — more than
a few students would agree that the Greek system

ABSOLUTE FRATLORD
TIM SMITH ‘04

WE KNOW WHAT A
FANTASTIC SCHOOL THIs Is,
WITH ITS ACADEMIC MERIT

AND ITs PRISTINE BEAUTY
AND THE OPPORTUNITIES IT
GIVES US. BUT WE ALSO
KNOW THAT SOCIALLY, W&L
IS NOTHING MORE THAN A
HIGH SCHOOL AFTER HIGH
SCHOOL.

   LIFE

is just one big group of cliques on steroids. Now
don’t get me wrong. I love the W&L Greek system
as much as the next frat lord. But to
suggest that fraternities and
sororities aren’t, on one level or
another, a form of cliques is to fall
into folly.

The obvious disadvantage of the tight-knit
society of a small school is the rampant gossip and
the mercilessness that has often been known to
accompany it. Ironically, the school now enforces a
three-strike system when it comes to alcohol or
substance infractions. But in the school’ s social
setting, three-strikes would be a godsend — we could
never be so nice. Often all it takes is one mistake,
one moment of poor judgment, one night of too much
alcohol, or one wrong selection of friends for a
reputation to ﬁnd itself in the W&L
‘doghouse.’

Recent events have made me
realize how ridiculous this
atmosphere can be. We all do
stupid stuff. Maybe we’re just
looking for a scapegoat to take our
minds off our own faults and project
them on someone else. Why not?
Why not use the social faux pas of
our peers to persuade ourselves of
our own perfection. Is that not the
high school thing to do?

College is supposed to be a fun
time in our lives. A time of
indiscretion. Atime of reckless abandon. But to all you
W&L students — BEWARE.

If you choose to do something fun or reckless or silly
or just plain diunb while in Lexington, be prepared to be
everyone’s punching bag.

In big state schools, you would be fine. You
wouldn’t have to worry about having your reputation
burned at the stake.

But you came to Washington & Lee High School,

and it’s a price that, at times, we all have to pay.

 

PAGE 3

Make Ariel ‘part of your world’

I want to write poetry on human parchment. Take
quill, and scratch word on stomach skin...(Tim Zink,
FallAriel ’98)

The divine voice ofa trill ﬂoats on candlelight
and moonbeams like a nightingale’ s distant
hymn. . .(Michael Healey, Spring Ariel ’98)

A responsible scholarly man, who hasn ’t done that
shit years, reminisces sitting around the coﬁee table
with comrades late in the evening. . .(Whit Morriss, Fall
Ariel ’99)

The moon jumped over the blue ridge
the other day. shot a Wise Man in the arm
And landed in the third pew of Holy Union A,
Church and just sat there. waiting for 
Revival (Dan Birdwhistell FallAriel ’99)

I open groupwise and scroll down to
the only email with an interesting title — “ariel”. from
John Melillo. “Ariel.” When I hear the name, I think of
one of two things: the whimsical character from The
Tempest, or that little mermaid whose voice had been
exchanged for the hope of true love. Had I not read the
Shakespearean play my senior year of high school, I
would probably still think of the Disney cartoon.
However, I ﬁnd it highly unlikely that the school’s only
literary arts magazine would name itself after a Disney
cartoon character. But then again, you never know. She
was quite poetic, after all.

Shakespeare’s character, from what I remember, was
an interesting ‘thing.’ It wasn’t a person or an actual
physical ﬁgure ~ none of the other characters even knew
that it existed, except for the reader and Prospero. And it
didn’t walk or run or creep around Gollum-like — did it
ﬂy? Maybe — it seemed to disappear and reappear, like a
ghost or spirit from ‘the other world.’ I remember my
teacher taking a Very psychological approach to the
character, arguing that Ariel was only an aspect of
Prospero’s mind, an imaginary ﬁgure he had invented,
probably to keep himself company while on the island.
But that was the approach he always took towards the
creative-side of the class — very analytical with a logical
explanation for everything. He was a dud and his class
was boring anyway.

 

Mock Con bands succeed despite inclement weather

:55: 1‘ AURA LEIGH BIRD“/ELL‘03 expression is lost somewhere between

As for the “Ariel” literary arts magazine, it represents
just about everything but logic. The poems and short
stories are as boundless as our own creative minds. The
poems are expressions of the imaginative side of
humanity. The poetry found in the Ariel emphasizes
that sometimes, there is no rational explanation for certain
aspects of human life. . .and that this illogical, irrational,
unscientiﬁc side of our existence is something that should
be recognized and celebrated.

The purpose of these papers, essays, and
presentations is to design logical and
reasonable answers to issues and
problems — thus, freedom of

the reality of application and the need

for objectivity in creating justice. However,

education should not be limited to such objectivity and

should never seek to subdue these aspects of humanity,
mainly because life itself is not solely objective.

The Ariel is the outlet, the escape from the logical
and analytical side of education. Its primary purpose is
to provide a means of thinking artistically and creatively,
while exercising full freedom of expression. And indeed,
if you have read poems from the Ariel, you know that
this student publication falls on the more liberal side of
W&L. The student poems in this publication of the Ariel
are nothing short of creative, illogical, and brilliant, as
well as the artwork and photography. The magazine will
be ready by the end of this week, making its grand
appearance at various sites around campus (like the
Dhall, Coop/Bookstore, and University Center). Pick one
up and explore the ‘rapture.’

I conclude with a preview of the winter 2003 Ariel
from a poem titled “Lucian Freud Speakst” Cerith ’s
unblinking conﬁdence begins my work but as dawn
becomes noon, aura leaves the room and paint becomes

ﬂesh. Swollen hips below heavy breasts twist from folded
thighs to include the underside of her sunken stomach,
not for accuracy but because of light and interest.
Awkward anatomy excludes nature, leisure, and thin
paint. What Rodin did in three dimensions I want in

two: blond girl on a bed, sculpture on linen.

 

K
A notice from
The Executive Committee
A of THE STUDENT BODY BY MEGAN MORGAN
ASSlSTANT ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
April 3, 2003
A member of the Student Body withdrew after being found guilty of an 0.“ Saturday» May lotha
Honor Violation. The student took another’s work from the Internet and Washin ton and Lee students
. . . . g
y( submitted it as his/her own for a Philosophy paper. The student’s paper celebrated the last day of the 24th
contained multipletpassages that matched or closely paraphrased passages from M ock Convention Spring Kickoff-by
multiple Internet sites. The student did not cite or otherwise attribute this work _ _ , _
to anyone other than himself/herself. jheadmgto the L1meK1]n Amphlt-heat“:
In defense, the student stated that he/she accidentally turned in a Here, they heard The North
“rough draft” that did not contain citations. At the closed hearing, the student Mississippi Allstars and The Lost
U also produced a “final paper,” which contained citations. The student stated -
. . . ,, ,, . Trailers perform on a large concert.
that he/she had intended to submit this ﬁnal paper. To support this conten- _ _
tion, the student produced evidence from his/her personal computer that TheK1ck°ff> wh1chbegan°nMay 8th
appeared to show that both the “rough draﬁ” and “final paper” were last Wlth speeches by Al Sharpton and
modiﬁed o'iiiktheEpaper’.s dig date, andfat adtirlrjie just begore the lpaper was clued. 1 Dick lylori-is, is the first official event
A s e x-ecutive ommittee oun ,. owever, y cone usive an’ cre ib e of the 2004 Democratic Mock
evidence and testimony that the date and time function on the student s _ , ,
personal computer had been affirmatively modiﬁed two days after he/she was Convention In Splte ofthe ram: many
formally charged with an Honor Violation. This modiﬁcation changed the students Stlll turned out. Some arrived
computer’s date and time from March 23, 2003, back to the paper’s due date, as early as noon in order to cookout
and a time just before the paper was due. This fact, coupled with other evidence and tailgate in the parking lot in from
1... concerning the matter, led the Committee to conclude that the ﬁnal paper, ,
which contained citations, had actually been created many weeks after the ﬁnal of the Amphltheatre before the
paper was due, and subsequent to the student being charged with an Honor concert.
Violation. Thus, the Committee found that the student had intentionally The Lost Trailers per-for-rned first,
submitted another 5 work from the Internet as his/her own. I 1- g at 5:30 pm. The band, which
«L was ﬁrst formed at Vanderbilt University
*Note that this Honor Posting is significantly more detailed than past in2000,isafourpiece rockband whose
Honor Postings. The Executive Committee's decision to include more detail is members include the guitarist and
I ‘ ' . .
not re ated to the facts of this matter, but rather reflects a desire to accommodate V0cahstGe0m_ey StokesN1eiSon’ Ryder
the Student Body s request to see more detailed Postings.
Lee on the keys and vocals, Tom Lord
‘{ Thank you, on drums, and Casey Childress on bass.
G M M T_ I” 2002 2003 EC P d The band is based inthe Southeast with
era . itus, , - . . resi ent, - -
Kemptori W. Presley, 2002-2003 E. C. Vice-President, a style of muslc Inﬂuenced by bands
Helen B. Hughes, 2002-2003 E. C. Secretary such as The Beatles: Allman Brothers
A and the Eagles. They played a wide

   

   

injiuuhonui

{olleg

      

>1» fundrms;-rig msirliz» Simple, Sash} and Free.

 lsmmaishg  auaabie. No  No «fees. lust sueoesali
Fiaulraislrig  are ﬁling dialect. fuel whit the programs  world

Q  p  
lriiur Tnuted Soumcfbr Cottage Fmmimifing.
388-923-3238 - ‘!t.f‘a‘.i’e/*l.C3i,l‘l"I}')l.i‘3lll.f1{5t‘EllS»i}E’.C()l‘i‘l

gm   5;  ll  if ,     if 9

FOR RENT

312 E Washington
House can accommodate 4 students: 4 bedrooms,
2 baths, living room, kitchen,
dining room and study.
Excellent off-street parking. $1,000 per month.

110 E Washington
House can accommodate 2-3 students:
2-3 bedrooms, 2 baths, living room, dining room,
kitchen. $750.00 per month.

Call Pat ALdred, Mead Associates,
Realtors, at 463-7168

selection of songs at the concert, many
ﬂom their two compact discs “The Lost
Trailers” and the most recent release
‘The Rock Band”. .

The Lost Trailers were followed
by the North Mississippi Allstars, also
a Southern rock band, which combines
Delta blues with sixties rock. Its
members include guitarist and singer
Luther Dickinson, bassist Chris Chew,
pianist and singer Cody Dickinson
and drummer R.L. Burnside. The
Dickinson brothers, whose father was

]EBBRtheRing-tum Pm

ROCK ON, MOCK CON! The North Mississippi Allstars receieved glowing reviews from the students who attended the show.

one of the most prominent producers
in Memphis, began performing at an
early age and added Chris Chew when
they saw him perform at their high
school homecoming dance. Burnside
joined the group in 2001.

They have released three compact
discs , the first being “Shake Hands
with Shorty” in 2000 which was
followed by “51 Phantom” in 2001 both
of which received Grammy

nominations. Recently, they released
a new c.d. entitled “Polaris”, which they
see as a culmination of their previous
works. “The ﬁrst records were building
blocks; we’ve been thinking and
talking about Polaris since 1999. We
were on a three—record plan and we
always knew that number three would
be our most ambitious album.”

This new album and the bands in
general seemed to go over well here at

Washington and Lee. Freshman
Steven Marinos says of his experience
“Despite the weather, I still had a really
good time. I’d heard of the North
Mississippi Allstars before. They used
to play shows in Memphis all the time.
It was really cool to get the chance to
see them here in Lexington.”

Amongst other concert-goers,
this seems to be the general
consensus.

Center

W&L University Soft
Squash Tournament

WHEN: 6-9 PM on May 19, 21, 22 in room 416 of the Warner

WHO: Open to all students, faculty and staff of all skill levels,
separate Men’s and Women’s Divisions
To enter ﬁll out entry form found outside Coach Lyles’ Ofﬁce

ENTRY DEADLINE: FRIDAY, MAY 16 - 5:00 PM
Questions or Comments can be directed to Greg Michaels or Coach Lyles

Happy
Birthday

 

Clebl, CCG,
KJH,
BTK,EEJ

 

 

PAGE 4

’l‘Hli RING~TUl\i Piii

PORTS
omen’s LAX los

C()L'KIIi\Y5l’(‘KlSllVT{'}li\l\Tl(I\'

LAXATTACK. SeniorattackerLeslieBogartgoes forthegoalduiingagameeaﬂierthis season

BY DONNY BANKS
.\SSlS'l'.\NT SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s
women’s lacrosse team fell to Mary
Washington, 12-7, in the NCAAS,
held in Ewing, New Jersey. At-

tacker Leslie Bogart, ’03, scored
three goals, tying the school career
scoring record of 230 points. Lisa
Dowling had set the record in the
1993 season.

Bogart ends her W&L lacrosse
career with 94 goals. She also holds

 

Emitting‘
SPOKISEDIIOR
FMAIl.‘]bIlUSE@\lVllJ.E)U ,

T AFFE

the school record in assists, record-
ing 136 during her playing time at
W&L.

Bogart opened the scoring in
Saturday’s game, getting one in with
21 :42 left in the ﬁrst half. Mary Wash-
ington then got in four straight goals,
for an easy 4-1 lead. The Generals
then scored twice more to trail 4-3
before the Eagles got in a series of
five goals to take a commanding 9-3
lead with about 25 minutes leﬁ in the
game.

In addition to Bogart’s phenom-
enal scoring, attacker Kelly Taffe, ’O4
recorded two goals while Katharine
Lester and Lee Wheeler each recorded
one.

Natalya Hoobchaak, Sarah
J anowitz and Taffe each recorded an
assist. Joanna Perini made nine saves
in goal.

Three golfers named to All-ODAC team

BY DONNY BANKS
.iSSlST.\f\JT SPORTS EDITOR

Three Washington and Lee golfers were recently
named to the All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference team.
Senior captain Chip Campbell and sophomore Ged Johnson
both placed on the first team, while freshman Tom Borda
made the second team.

“I’m extremely pleased to receive the All-ODAC Sec-
ond Team award, especially as a freshman,” remarked
Borda. “Hopefully, I can improve on that in the years to
come.”

Campbell, Geddes, and Borda all played 18 rounds

Baseballers recieve individual honors

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

The W&L baseball team’s incredible season, in which
they compiled a 28-8 overall record, was rewarded last
Wednesday when the ODAC released its conference all-
stars. Eight Generals received recognition as well as Man-
ager Jeff Stickley, who was named ODAC coach of the
year for the third time.

Senior shortstop Michael Hanson capped off a tre-
mendous career by being named to his fourth straight
all-ODAC team. This season, he also became the first
W&L baseball player ever to be named ODAC player of
the year. In addition to playing arguably the most im-
portant position in the ﬁeld, Hanson hit .371 with 5
home runs and 23 RBIs. He scored a school record 46
runs and also led the team with 3 triples and 14 stolen
bases. Hanson has left his mark on the W&L all-time
record book. He is currently the school’s all-time leader
in games played (136), at-bats (519), hits (187), runs
(148), doubles (43), triples (13) and stolen bases (51).
He has hit .360 with 18 home runs and 83 RBIs for his
career.

Hanson was joined on the ﬁrst team by his fellow
senior co-captains, first baseman Brian Gladysz and

this year, averaging 75.4, 76.4, and 77.9 strokes‘
per round, respectively. This marked
Cainpbell’s second straight selection to the ﬁrst
team.

The Generals enjoyed a strong season
and finished third at the ODAC Champion-
ship on April 2 1 st and 22nd. Despite an im-
pressive showing and a ranking of 20th in
the nation by Golf Stat, the team did not re-
ceive an at-large bid to play in the Division
III National Championships from May 12th to 15th in
Delaware, Ohio. Campbell, however, will participate in
the individual competition at the tournament.

centerﬁelder Bobby Littlehale. Gladysz ﬁnished the year
with a .358 average, 4 home rims, 33 RBIs and 33 rims
scored. He also drew a school record 31 walks. In addition
to being a stellar defensive outﬁelder, Littlehale hit .362
with a home rim, 23 RBIs and 27 I'11IlS scored.

Joining these three seniors on the
ﬁrst team were juniors Bryan Mulhem
and Peter Dean and sophomore Zach
Bausch. Mulhern was primarily a
catcher but also saw time in the out-
ﬁeld and as a pitcher. He led the team
in several offensive categories, bat-
ting .392 with 6 home I'l1I1S and 48
RBIs. On the mound, he appeared in
10 games, ﬁnishing with a 3-1 record
and a 2.29 ERA. Bausch played some
catcher and saw extensive time as a
designated hitter, batting .356 with 4
home 1'l1I1S, 30 RBIs and a team lead-
ing 15 doubles.

Dean was the ace of the Generals pitching staff. He
appeared in 14 games, starting 12, compiling an 8-2 record
and 1.67 ERA. He led the team in wins, innings pitched
(80.2), complete games (6), shutouts (2) and strikeouts
(73). He is currently the Generals all time leader in ERA

Six LAX players selected or Al

BY DONNY BANKS
.\SSlST.lNT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and

with just a 5.85 goals per game average.

Martin reached the mark with 21 goals
and 8 assists on the season. Sanders,
who got second team a year ago, had a

expectations.

 

" HNON I I

 

DEAN

and one assist and won 57.7 percent of
his faceoffs, and Molinelli,
15 goals and 12 assists, both certainly met

Mom, MAY 12, 2003’

  
   

AKIHURASHE AWARD

GE - A  
Fotmos wms Udall scholarship

Washington and Lee junior Andrew Fotinos has re-
ceived the Morris K. Udall Scholarship. He is one of 80,,
undergraduates in the country to receive this honor.

Fotinos, who is participating in the Environmental
Studies Program will also be the manager of the Outing
Club House next year and is also a member of the cross
country team.

\ Last summer, Fotinos worked in an internship with
the Nature Conservancy. He lived in the Targhee National
Forest in Idaho and worked with a program designed to
educate local ranchers about conservation. The program’s;
goal is to reduce development and fragmentation of cru-
cial wildlife habitats in a migration corridor area adjacent
to Targhee and Yellowstone National Park.

After graduation, Fotinos plans to pursue a graduate
degree in public policy and hopes one day to have a ca-39
reer in local government because he hopes to advocate‘
for a sound and sustainable land resource policy.

The Morris K. Udall Foundation awards scholarships
of up to $5000 to college juniors and seniors pursuing A
studies in ﬁelds related to the environment. The founda-
tion was established in 1992 and is an agency associated
with the executive branch whose board members are ap-
pointed by the President and approved by the Senate.

Pulitzer Prize-winner McWholter to speak I

Diarme McWhorter, winner of last year’s Pulitzer Prize
in nonﬁction for her book on Birrriingham and the Civil
Rights movement, is coming to campus this week as a
guest of W&L’s Fishback Program for Visiting Writers.
She will be working with students and faculty this week
working with small groups of student writers and partici-k
pating in class discussions.

McWhorter will deliver an address on Wednesday,
May 14 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Her address is entitled
“Identifying with Fate: The Intersection of Personal Iden- >4
tity and Public History”.

She contributes regularly to The New York Times and
the op-ed page ‘of USA Today and frequently focuses on
race, politics and other social topics. Her Pulitzer—winning
piece was entitled, “Carry Me Home: Birmingham, Ala!“
bama- The Climatic Battle of the Civil Rights Revolution”
and was also hailed as one of the year’s best by The New
York Times, The Los Angeles Times, and Time magazine.

McWhorter graduated from Wellesley College with a,
B.A. in comparative literature.

President of Dallas Fed will speak

Bob McTeer, President of the Dallas Federal Reserve;
Bank will give the H. Parker Willis Lecture in Economic
Policy on Tuesday, May 13 at 7:30 p.m. in Northern Audi-
torium. His lecture is entitled “The Prodigal Son As the
Central Banker”. .

McTeer holds a doctorate in econorriics from the Uni-T
versity of Georgia and is a member of the board of direc-
tors of the National Council on Economic Education.
McTeer is a member of the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee, the Fed’s principle monetary policymaking body. x

He became the President and CEO of the Federal Re-
serve Bank of Dallas in February 1991.

Law students honored for legal writing

Three Washington and Lee University School of Law
are being honored for excellence in legal writing. Jeffrey
Scott, a second-year law student won ﬁrst place in the
American Bar Association Forum on Affordable Housing”
and Community Development Law Writing Competition.
He will receive $1000 and a trip to the Forum’s 12th Annual
Conference. Scott’s paper “Public Use and Private Proﬁt:
When Should Heightened Scrutiny Be Applied to ‘Public-
Private’ Takings” won his award. I‘

Two other W&L Law students were selected to serve
on the Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy’s 2003
National Symposium Editorial Board. Ryan Berry, also a
second-year student, will serve as one of four Executive
Editors. James Coleman, a first-year student, will serve as’
an Editor of this year’s symposium issue.

Cuban writer to visit campus

National Book Award Finalist Cristina Garcia will be!
giving a reading and lecture at Washington and Lee on
Wednesday, May 21, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. His lec-
ture, “Politics, Art and Cultural Identity: Thoughts on
American-Cuban Relations” is being sponsored by W&L’s 1*
Global Stewardship Program.

She will also talk with students in W&L’s seminar on
“The Cuban Story” and the Global Stewardship Spring
Institute.

Garcia was born in Havana and grew up in New York I
City. She draws on her experience as a member of an
expatriate family with strong connections in Cuba. Her
ﬁrst novel, Dreaming in Cuban was well-received in 1992.
She is hailed as the voice of Cuban expatriates. I

(IJLl?IESi'§’(lKISlNR)Ri\ll'll(1\1
Washington and Lee’s women’s tennis player, Erika
Proko, ’03, has been awarded the ITA/ Arthur Ashe
Leadership & Sportsmanship Award for the Atlantic
South region. Proko was one of four players from
various NCAA regions to win the award. The national
winner will be announced by the ITA next week. Proko
has been named All—American three times and is ranked
No. 1 in doubles and No. 9 in singles in the latest
Division III rankings. She has recorded a 22-3 overall

I record in singles and a 28-1 record in doubles.
Washington and Lee will resume play in the NCAA
Division III Quarterﬁnals on May 14 at the University
of the Redlands.

“The team played pretty well in the fall
season but struggled towards the end of the
spring season,” Borda added. “I’m disap-
pointed that we didn’t qualify for the national
tournament, which was our goal the entire year,
but it’s great that Chip Campbell will compete
there as an individual and represent the team”.

Although the team’s run may have ended
prematurely this season, the Generals will ex-
pect a strong season next year. For now, they
are merely wishing Campbell the best as he departs for
Ohio. After graduation, Campbell hopes to pursue a
career as a professional golfer

(2.14) and his 20 careers wins leaves him just three shy of
the school’s all time record. In addition to being named
ﬁrst-team all-ODAC, Dean was named to the ﬁrst team
Verizon Academic All-District College Division Baseball
team for his work in the classroom as a pre-med rnaj or with
a 3.61 grade point average. The team
includes players from small colleges
throughout the south.

Juniors Austin Allain and Dan
Kagey were named to the,All-ODAC
second team. Allain, a slick ﬁelding
second baseman, hit .289 with a home
run, 31 RBIs and 36 runs scored.
Kagey pitched in 12 games for the
Generals, starting 1 1. He posted a 7-3
record and 3.05 ERA. He ﬁnished sec-
ond on the team in innings pitched
(73.2) and strikeouts (68), behind
Dean. He also played some outﬁeld,
batting .274 with 10 RBIs and 26 runs

1»

scored.

The Generals hope their remarkable season will
continue with an at-large bid to the Division III tour-
nament. The selections will be released the night of
May 11.

l-ODAC honors

Perini, who got an honorable mention
last year, earned ﬁrst team with a save per-
centage of .545. Taffe, second team hon-
oree last year, led the Generals with 55 goals

who recorded

women’s lacrosse teams, although ending .612 save For the Women, senior defender Sa- and 17 assists. Murphy reached the mark Garcia attended Barnard College and Johns Hopkins!
on losses, ﬁnished the season auspiciously p e r c e n t - rah J anowitz was named ODAC Player of with 14 goals and 3 assists and had 50 University and has served as the Miami Bureau Chief for
enough with six players selected to All- age and the Year and a first team selection. Junior ground balls and 19 forced turnovers. Time Magazine. She lives in Santa Monica, California
ODAC honors. 5.85 goals attacker Kelly Taffe, junior goaltender Second teamer Bogart, after recording with her daughter.

For the men, junior defenseman a g a i n s t Joarma Perini, and sophomore midﬁelder setting a team record with 43 assists this Monkey Hunting is Garcia’s latest novel. 5‘
Lawson Grumbine, junior midfielder average , Kitt Murphy all were selected to the ﬁrst season, stands as W&L’s all time assist
Dustin Martin, junior goalie Ansel Sand- fourth best team, while senior attacker Leslie Bogart leader with 136 to her name. Wheeler, who
ers, and senior defenseman Noah Weber, inDivision got second team honors, and junior made the ﬁrst team in 2001, had 34 goals
were all named to the ﬁrst team. Senior 111. It was midﬁelder Lee Wheeler was anhonorable and 13 assists. - - ,-
defenseman Matt Conners was placed on all four’s mention. Not surprisingly considering the ac- wrlle for Phl Sports‘
the second team, and senior midﬁelder first time  This marked J anowitz’s third colades she produces in her players, Head
Tommy Melanson and sophomore on the ﬁrst ANDER5 straight selection to an all conference Coach Jan Hathom received the title of '
attackman Gavin Molinelli received hon- team. team. This year, she caused 14 tum- ODAC CoachoftheYear. Hathomhasbeen Contact Donny or Erm 01-
orable mentions. Conners, who saw first team honors overs, had 65 groundballs, while keep- at the school for 15 years, and this is the  5

Grumbine and Weber, who started all last year, was a solid force for the W&L ing the opponents in check with only 5th time she has been bestowed with the
13 games this season, earned the honor defense. Melanson, who notched 8 goals 6.53 goals a game. conference honor.

 

 

 

