 

posters
I

 

  

4.4

  

BY KAI-LIA HARMON
 snxrrwxnnr

Buzz about the upcoming Mock Convention has ~

reached a feverish pitch as delegations begin to see
results of their predictions.

The D.C. delegation got the ball rolling with their
prediction of the January 13”‘ non-binding primary.
Although their numbers were not exact, the
delegation did accurately predict that Dean would
come out on top, with Sharpton coming in second

(and Braun taking third.

D.C. state chair Celia Landgren said that overall, the
delegation was pleased with the outcome of the primary
but admitted that they were “a little bummed” about their
numbers being wrong.

g Landgren also said that they have room to alter
the prediction their prediction at the convention
because D.C.’s official primary isn’t until February 14"‘
and the results of New Hampshire’s primary on
Tuesday could change the way voters swing next

(month. .

“There will be a research room set up at the
convention and we’re prepared to make changes up to
the last second” said Landgren.

The Iowa delegation didn’t see the same success. Its

‘(prediction was that Dick Gephardt would win the state but
last Monday‘s caucus ended with Kerry taking the win
and Gephardt dropping out of the race entirely.

Regardless, state chair Gregory Papeika said that
they made the best prediction based on the

‘information they had. Their research indicated

 

“every political pundit had Dean winning the

caucuses... Gephardt had extensive campaign"

organizations out there, and that is usually what won
it in the past.” '

Students who worked to predict the outcome of the
Iowa caucus were ultimately incorrect. Although the Iowa
prediction was a bit disheartening it is by no means an
indication of the ultimate results of this weekend’s
convention. .

New Hampshire state chair Justine Sessions is
more that confident that her state's prediction will be
correct and that the ultimate prediction of the
convention will be correct as well.

New Hampshire’s primary takes place this
Tuesday and she is anticipating the results. “ I’m
actually really excited. We have a solid understanding
of who's going to win.” The delegation is also
prepared with a prediction of who will take second
and third. ‘

As far as the impact that New Hamshire’s
prediction will make on the convention as a whole,
Sessions said, “Its very important for us to get it
right for the morale of the convention [but] even if
we get New Hampshire wrong it doesn’t mean we’ll
get the actual nomination wrong [at the
convention]”.

As for the rest of the states, everyone is getting in
their last bit of research together and preparing to make
their predictions this weekend. It has been a really tight
race so far and clearly its only going to get more interesting
from here. As Celia Landgren said “Who knows things
will turn out?”

 

P1-11

' “F

m.

SPECIAL MOCK CONVENTION EDITION or
Wnsnnxroron AND Ln: UNIVERSITYJ

The student we of Washington and Lee Urzioersity since 189.

‘Students work topredict outcomes o

/02‘ /3

, VoLUrv1ECV,NoXlV ,
I MONDAY,JANUARY7.6,203‘l1;.

f primaries nationwide

 EB Bsooxs / THERAYG-ii-iii;/1

Mock Convention’s Top Brass. Memorabilia Chairman Rene Louapre confers with General Chairman Noah Rhodes.

University’s Mock Convention claims rich history, manytraditions, much drama

The convention gained national attention in 1924 when it accurately
predicted that John W. Davis, a W&L alumnus and former U.S. Congress-
man from West Virgina who was not even a declared candidate, would win

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ms AND LIFE EDITOR

As the 2004 Washington and Lee Mock Convent-ion approaches,
’ one has to wonder what all the pomp and excitement is about. Why has
so much money and time been devoted to what is in many ways essen-

tially an academic exercise?

To understand the importance of Mock Convention, one must realize
that it is an engrained part of the history of Washington and Lee, leaving-

.~ a lasting influence on the campus and its students.

The first Mock Convention took place in May of 1908 when an upcom-
ing visit by William Jennings Bryan, a frontrunner for the presidency,
prompted the students to stage a replica of the upcoming Democratic Na-

tional Convention.

V Students divided into two camps, one backing Bryan and the other
backing Governor John A. Johnson of Minnesota. Students did their best
to replicate the actual national convention, and became so engaged and
debate became so heated that fistfights broke out on the ﬂoor of the con-
vention. However, Bryan finally won the W&L nomination and went on to

I win the Democratic National Convention nomination that summer.

‘T-shirts, tumblers,
available

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Rene Albert Lguapre has worked hard this year to ensure that
Washington and Lee students will have lovely mementos with which to

3 remember Mock Convention.

Students should be eager to purchase the Mock Convention
packages because, “it’s nice to «have these posters and T-shirts and
glasses years from now,” said Louapre, “they’re keepsakes, like Hallmark

cards.”

‘U According to Mock Convention General Chairman Noah Rhodes,
Louapre is perfect for the Memorabilia Chairship because he could, “sell
ice to eskimos...he’ll make a great used car salesman someday.”

The Mock Convention packages, which include a T-shirt, poster,
glass and button cost $20 and went on sale Thursday. Optional Mock

‘Convention playing cards are also available. Packages will be for sale in
the Commons until supplies run out. Delegates will also receive white

hats at the door of the Convention.

The design on the T-shirt and poster features nine of the original
Democratic candidates. It came from a political cartoon found in a
Charleston publication. A Washington and Lee alum, Alex Stene, got the
rights to the cartoon and helped to put the package together.

in-

the Democratic nomination at the national convention.
Often times the convention can be very divided and contentious, as
was the case in 1936. The convention was evenly split between Alfred

Landon, Governor of Kansas and Senator Arthur Vandenburg. It came

down to the Pennsylvania delegates who were also deadlocked. Finally a
missing Pennsylvania delegate w—as.brou.ght in fromvth-e-tennis courts and

broke the tie, giving the nomination to Arthur Vandenberg. Unfortunately,

Landon.

he withdrew before the actual convention and the nomination went to

In 1956, a tragic death overshadowed the festivities of the conven-

tion. The keynote speaker for the convention was Senator and former Vice

BY E1uN]UuUs
Nrws Eorror

Fiery political commentator
James Carville visits campus this
weekend as the keynote speaker
for the 2004 Mock Convention.
Carville’s speech will be Saturday
morning at 10 a.m.

“I have no doubt that he’ll
get students excited about the
Mock Convention and the up-
coming elections,” said Speakers
chair Anne Idsal, “He’s known as
the ‘Ragin’ Cajun’ as he’s from
Louisiana and is famous for his
fast, colorful talking.”

Carville, perhaps America’s
best-known political consultant,
broke into the political limelight
when his consulting firm, Carville
& Begala, helped elect President
Clinton in 1992.

James Carville

Carville then starred in Presi-
dent Bill Clinton’s campaign
documentary “The War Room”
and is one of the left-leaning co-
hosts of CNN’s Crossfirewhere

      

President Alben Barkley of Kentucky. Standing on a podium in 90 degree
weather he gave a rousing speech to the W&L convention in which he
declared that he had not originally planned to go the National Democratic
Convention that summer but that “like an old firehouse when he hears the
bell”, the W&L convention had persuaded him to go. However at the end
of his speech as the crowds clapped, the Senator stepped back from the

he debates the hot political is-
sues of the day.‘ ,

Carville serves as a Mock
Convention 2004 Advisory Board
member. The Advisory Board
lends invauable help and assis-
tance‘.

Washington and Lee alumnus
Jim Davis, a Democratic Congress-
man from Florida, “went out of his
way to fit Mock Convention into his
schedule,” said Idsal. Davis will kick
off the Mock Convention weekend
with his speech

h

Thomas Menino

Thursday night at 5:30 in Lee
Chapel.
Davis is going to speak about,

podium and collapsed. He was shortly declared dead from a heart attack.
The convention came to a halt and was only resumed when Barkley’s
widow forced the students to continue stating “You have unfinished busi-

ness.”

Since 1948, the W&L convention has accurately predicted the party
nominee all but one time. The one error occurred in 1972 when the del-
egates selected Edward Kennedy instead of George McGovern as the
Democratic candidate. The keynote speaker for that convention was Jimmy
Carter, then Governor of Georgia. However, his speech must not have
been too rousing as his press-secretary did not even attend the speech.
instead spending the day playing pinball and drinking at a restaurant on

Main Street.

In recent years, the Washington and Lee convention has become a
necessary stop for political leaders. Speakers at the Spring Kickoff and

Gingrich.

I the Convention include Jesse Jackson, Jack Kemp, Lamar Alexander,
Michael Dukakis, Bill Clinton, Barry Goldwater, Haley Barbour and Newt .

- Q
Bill Clinton even played his saxophone at an off-campus party.
As the 2004 convention approaches, new stories will be added to the
continuing history of this important W&L tradition.

Consumer Protection; Environ-
ment and Hazardous Materials;
and Oversight and Investiga-
tions.

Davis is also a national co-chair

 

John Dalton

of the New Democrat Coalition,
which is a group of 75 moderate
House Democrats promoting bipar-
tisan solutions.

South Carolina Democratic
Representative James Clyburn,
former Navy Secretary John
Dalton, Boston Mayor Thomas
Menino, Democratic activist
Ronnie Dugger, Mississippi
Democratic Representative Gene

“his own political t Taylor and
career, W&Lexpe— 4 f o r m e r
rience, and his 5p€al<6I$W€r6V€fY<%g€ft03tt€I1d,b9S6d Oklahoma
Mock Convention S0161 u nthe umtion our S e n at o r
. .. . Y P0 “P .
experience, said M Ock Conventionhas D a V 1 d
Idsal. Boren are
Davis was ANNEIDSAL also lined
lected ‘to Con- SPEAKERS CHAIR up as
gress 111 1996 speakers.

and serves on

the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, the Subcommittee on
Telecommunications and the
Internet, Commerce, Trade, and

“ T h e
speakers will be addressing the sig-
nificance of the upcoming elec-
tions, endorsing particular candi-
dates, and commenting upon our

  

National ﬁgures to address Mock Con

timely and unique tradition," said i

Idsal.. _ _

_, «.\v~.,r

Menino, as the mayor of‘

Boston, is running the host city

of the actual Democratic Con-:2:
The Democratic Na-v ‘

vention.

tional Convention will take
place in Boston July 26 - July 29..
2004

“Speakers were very eager to
attend, based solely upon the _.
reputation our Mock Convention
has,” said Idsal.

 

Senator Boren

 

James Clybum .

 

  

  

J _ Q. Lﬁvtéii. tad 
W .‘ ' 3;»  

PAGEJAWN’ 3‘il’

NEWS

_;-5-.=.li;=\r>'n;.»s.l*.-is

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

Students work hard for success of W&L Mock Convention

Cameron arranges accomodations for all of Convention ’s speakers, Jared workes to ensure Mock Convention Journal contains memories

Cameron Billups

Cameron Billups has been playing an un-
recognized but completely essential role in
Mock Convention.

As Accommodations Chair, she is respon-
sible not only for contacting every speaker or
notable person involved at Mock Convention
but also arranging“ travel and hotel accom-
modations for all, organized around their in-
dividual schedules. She has been working in
this position since Al Sharpton spoke during
Spring Kickoff last year. ‘

Though not particularly political, Billups
wanted to make sure to get heavily involved
with Mock Convention and has a positive out-
look towards the experience.

She said that planning for events such
as parties has always held somewhat of a spe-
cial interest for her, so the position fit her
well.

Aside from last year’s events , her job has
not been excessively busy until prior to Win-
ter Break, when things became extremely
stressful. Billups must literally plan each
speakers’ visit down to the minute in order to
maintain a steady flow with consideration to
both their needs and their speaking time.

To help her with this massive feat is a
staff of people that she said she c_ouldn’t do
without. Cameron also mentioned Professor
Connelly as a large source of help for her and
several others.

In addition to her full course load, Cameron
is currently working 7-8 hours a day getting
the final arrangements ready

She saidishe “doesn’t have time to be
nervous yet." Though her life right now is
very hectic, she continuously mentioned the
excess of people that were also behind the
scenes, working just as hard if not harder, as
she.

Jared Harrison

Among the many people who have spent
countless hours working behind the scenes is jun-
ior Jared Harrison.

Jared is the Editor-in—Chief, or Journal Chair, of
the Mock Convention program, The Journal. Th e

STEVE MARINOS / TI-ERING-TUMPHI

Mock Convention Movers and Shakers. In keeping with our special Mock Convention edition, 77JeP/ii chose two Mock Convention chairs, Cameron Billups and
Jared Harrison, to be this week’s Hidden Heroes. Cameron is the Accomodations Chair whilejared serves as Editor—in—Chief for the Convention’s]oumal.

the speakers, biographies, and more. Everyone re-
ceives a copy during Mock Convention.

As a politics/journalism double major,
heading this project was a per-
fect job for Jared, encapsulat-
ing both aspects of his educa-
tion. .

Over a year ago, Jared went
through a vigorous interview
process to get his position. He said that he
wanted to get involved with Mock Convention
because of its obvious correlation with his fu-
ture plans, as well the fact that he really had a
drive to help with the Convention.

 
 

HIDDEN HEROES
JORDAN ANDERsoN’07

ing the efforts of his staff while actively en-
gaging and overseeing the production of all
aspects of The Journal.

He also personally
worked on obtaining ad
space for companies and
helped in raising the money
for the program.

Hours of research
were required to gather data for the biogra-
phies, as well as tedious preparation on de-
signing the layout.

Using only previous Mock Convention
Journals and a massive guidebook only re-

coworkers had to operate based on their own
skills and judgment in designing and writing
one of the most integral parts of Mock Con-
vention.

When asked if he had enjoyed his work, he
replied simply, “yes”. '

Jared also seemed a bit excited that it would
be over soon.

Jared is grateful for the invaluable experi-
ence that working on a project like Mock Con-
vention gave him.

Additionally, Jared said that having the
opportunity to work with all of the people in-
volved with Mock Convention has built some

   
   

 

Journal is a 50+ page comprehensive booklet of all

W&L Professor awarded a Fulbright Grant

Harnpden H. Smith, a W&L professor for 30 years,_has been
awarded a Fulbright Grant to teach in Eastern Europe this winter and
spring as a Fulbright lecturer. Smith is also the former head of the
journalism and mass communications department. He is now in
phased retirement. '

He will be lecturing in several areas of journalism at the
University of Tirana, Albania’s capital. Topics include reporting,
journalism ethics, editing and design for print publications and
developing news sites on the Web.

This is Srnith’s third Fulbright award. He taught at Moscow

State University in 1992 and at the American University in Bulgaria
in 1995-96. A

Corrections

In the General Notes section of the Ring—tum Phi, we incor-
rectly stated that- there has been a rash of recent thefts in the Wil-
liams School. Actually,’ laptops have been vanishing from the law
school. Please contact University Security if you see any suspi-
cious activity on campus. I

In last week’s Hidden Hero feature, the Ring—tum Phi incorrectly
attributed all credit for the Cystic Fibrosis charity ball to Juliarme
Shelley and Kristin Crawford. In reality, the event is being put to-
gether by a committee of 37 people. Keep reading for future updates
about the event to be held later this year.

Harrison’s responsibilities include direct-

Need a rest from
A everyday life?

Treat yourself to a
luxurious full body massage by

 H 31" 1" 115', BA, CMT

Certified Massage Therapist
Board of Nursing Certiﬁed
13 Years Experience

Gift Certificates Make
Great Valentine’s Presents!

(540) 264-0063

 

ferred to as “The Bible”, Jared and all of his

great friendships.

Students say this year’s choice may be hardest

BY KYLE \X/Ass
A_ssocrA'n3 EDITOR

As primaries loom, Mock Convention 2004 is shaping up
differently from previous years, so we may see some different
outcomes. Over the past 30 years, Mock Convention has
seen some gradual changes, for instance,
the “presidential nominating process be-
came much more plebiscitary, that is, more
primary and caucus dominated, much
more media—dominated, and much more
volatile,” said politics professor William
Connelly. /

To accommodate the changing politi-
cal scene, Washington and Lee’s Mock
Convention has been moved earlier and
earlier in the year, from May to the end of
January.

Veteran Mock Convention participant Alexander Wilkins
said, “I can say for sure, along with everyone else, that this
year’s prediction presents a greater challenge” than the 2000
Republican Mock Convention. However, “most of the details
[are] usually coming together at the very last minute,” and
“this year is no exception,” according to 2000 W&L graduate
and New Hampshire State Chair Kristen Binette.

 

The Mock Convention delegations are working hard on
their research, but it seems the issue of the moment is the
incorrect prediction of the Iowa delegation.

Connelly said that “no pundit accurately predicted the
Iowa results in advance, [and] as a political scientist might
say, [there were] too many variables.”

Binette agreed, and said “I don’t
think many professional pundits could
have predicted the Iowa results.”

An unnamed source ventured to say
that the Iowa delegation used a differ-
ent approach to their research than other
states did — one that would either be in-
credibly accurate or terribly wrong. It is
likely, then, that other states will be
checking, double—checking, and second-
guessing their research up until the last
minute, said Wilkins.

Aside from the Iowa delegation’s incorrect prediction,
Binette believes that “Justine Sessions will turn things
around, correctly projecting the New Hampshire results and
setting the tone for the overall convention.” In the week
remaining before Washington and Lee’s 2004 Mock Conven-
tion, Connelly said “if anyone can predict the nominee of
January 30-31, it will be our Mock Convention students.”

Mock Convention
. - January 30 86 31

  

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs ~ Contacts
COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

rleesiew oeruciiesis

20 years serving Rockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

A Bar A‘ Ranch:
Spend a summer in Wyoming

Spend your summer in Wyoming on one of
America’s best guest ranches. Now hiring for June
1 - September 11 and June 1 - September 25.
Check our staff web site at www.coo1works.corn/
abara for details, or call Bob or Margie Howe,
Managers, at 303-838-1950. Bob Howe will be
on campus February 4. You can set up an inter-
view on e-recruiting. No need to post a resume;
you can bring it to the interview.

 

309 N. lVlaj_r1 St.
LeXi_rigt:on, \,/A 24450

.7

I

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

S 
TAFF EDITORIAL

1980 Phi staff
takes a look at Mock Con.

For at least two days this weekend
the Washington andLee community will
be immersed in another world. Atten-
tion will be focused on little Lexington,
Virginia, to see the results of the 1980
Republican Mock Convention.

Much of this attention will come
from the media and it should be focused
on the proceeding of the actual conven-
tion, not the behavior of the students of
Washington and Lee. Lest the writer be
criticized for acting like an old maid, or
for being more paranoid than a father
sending his daughter out on her ﬁrst date,
which happens to be at a fraternity party,
let some examples of W&L students’
behavior in years past be recalled.

In 1960 Harry Truman was pelted
with various objects, from oranges to
beer cans, while people chanted “Give
‘em hell Harry.” Though John F.
Kennedy was nominated that year, the
conduct of W&L students nearly re-
ceived as much press as the actual
outcom of the convention. And not too
long ago an overzealous W&L lacrosse
fan saw it ﬁt to dump a drink on the Navy
lacrosse coach’s wife. Even more re-
cently a large crowd listening to a band
in the old gym during a big weekend was
stunned when one W&L student
smashed a bottle over another’s face.

We hope that no such unfortunate in-
cidents will occur this weekend, the
Mock Convention Steering Committee
has put a lot of time and thought into plan-
ning the latest edition of the Convention.
So remember, no matter how much you
celebrate this weekend, have a good time,
but don’t do something you will regret
when you see it on the evening news.

~Reprinted from the May 8, 1980 edi-
tion of the Ring—tum Phi.

Tia i+°{s~t<;~riat 

CALEYANDHEON
OPINIOl\5EDl10R

EMAi;ANDEiEoi\t@wiiiEi)ii

PINIONS

Clark best equipped for the White House

PAGE 3

PHOTO COURTESY OF

GENERAL AND PRESIDENT? Wesley Clark was a successful NATO Commander and Brigadier General, but does he have what it takes to get to the White House?

 
      
 

35:‘

,g%  of the Wee

“Iranians never allow dictators to
decide for them.”

 

-Fatemeh Haqiqatjoii,anliariianrnocleiate,on

A the disqualiﬁation of moderate candidates by

Iian’shaitl-lirielegislatiire. Shealorigwithmany
otherIianians,will likely boycott theelectiori

 

ii E-= Ux2va:<:*:r P

Editorin chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor E1-in Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Chris Lauder-man
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly J o Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Arness
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Henry Grimball
Stuart Presnell
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weel(’s edition.
The Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Common; Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr
Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir
Distribution Dir

General Wesley Clark, as of this writing, is ﬁght-
ing for second place in the running for the Demo-
cratic nomination with Howard Dean and John
Edwards, all of whom trail John Kerry. Neverthe-
less, I believe that General Clark is not only the
best man among the Democratic candidates for
President, he is the best equipped to defeat Presi-
dent Bush in the general election.

Clark has been often accused of being the most
right-leaning of all the Dems still
in the running. Democratic hard-
liners think he’s too much of a
moderate to earn the nomination,
and prefer more liberal candidates
like Dean. But it is precisely this strength, of course,
that makes him most likely to defeat Biish. What
the Democratic party does not need is a repeat of
1984 when Walter Mondale, a highly leftist candi-
date, was blown out of the water by Ronald Reagan,
who was as far to the right as Mondale was to the
left. ,

What I, a moderate Democrat, would prefer to
see is a repeat of 1992, when another moderate
Democrat, namely Clinton, stepped in to take the
reins from a semi-bumbling Republican president.
And, of course, while I had a good deal of respect
for Bill Clinton’s administrative abilities, I had little
for his personal morality. Clark, though he doesn’t
have the thorough liberalist credentials that Clinton
had, does have much stronger integrity.

   

Mo15ERAiE’s Mme
CALEY 1l\pERsoN ‘O6

Clark is a man of strong character. He’s‘

certainly not a draft dodger, unlike Clinton,
who used inside connections to avoid mili-
tary service, and unlike Bush, who conve-
niently “lucked out” into the National Guard
(and went AWOL even from that). On the
contrary, he was promoted several times on
the field in Vietnam for valor and uncommon
command skill.

The biggest strike against Clark
is probably that he doesn’t have
a long history with the Demo-
cratic Party; he joined the Demo-
cratic party very recently, and in
fact had to be persuaded to become a candidate.
But is this really any criteria by which to judge
him? I’ve never been a huge fan of the party
apparatus anyway, for either Republicans or
Democrats. '

The only "thing that could be seen as poten-
tially troubling is the view that Clark is an oppor-
tunist who joined the party only for the potential-
ity of becoming President. This is possible, and
certainly a run at the White House might have
inﬂuenced Clark’s decision, but a look at Clark’s
voting records shows you that he has consis-
tently voted on the Democratic side of quite a few
issues- he’s pro-choice, a strong gun control ad-

vocate, and a supporter of social services like wel— -

fare and social security.

Economically, "he is a bit more conservative
than the other candidates, preferring a somewhat
less cautious tax cut and a very cautious federal
spending policy, but who’s to say that these are
negatives? He’s more a moderate than he is a
Republican or Democrat, and I like those candi-
dates that blur the line between the parties, such
as Clark (or certain Austrian—bom state gover-
nors).

The other obvious advantage that this
moderatism gives him is that it makes him more
likely to defeat President Bush. There are, in fact,
many Republicans who would support Clark rather
than Bush, mostly due to Bush’s reckless Federal
spending. In a bit of irony, Clark’s proposed
spending program is more conservative than
Bush’s has been to this point. The “Draft Clark”
movement featured a GOP wing that numbered in
the thousands of active supporters, an astonish-
ing number for a grassroots candidate recruitment
effort.

Clark is a good man, a man of principle, and a
proven effective leader. His politics mix liberal con-
cern for social issues with conservative ideas about
spending and economics. His moderate status
makes him appealing to both Republicans and

0 Democrats as a replacement for Bush’s antics, and

if he pullsahead of Kerry and the rest of the group,
the Republican part will have a hard time ﬁghting
him off.

A random sample of
39 students were asked

“How would you describe your political orientation?”

Conservative- 56%
Liberal- 22%
Moderate- 22%

97% Conﬁdence
+/- 5% Margin of Error

Mock Con will make correct prediction

, Last Monday night, as the reports from the Iowa caucuses started to roll
in, those of us who had been part of making the Iowa decision were, to say the
least, a bit disheartened. Our pick had been Gephardt, Dean, Kerry then
Edwards. The numbers came back Keny, Edwards, Dean, Gephardt and it
seemed that we couldn’t have been more wrong. However, more sober reﬂec—
tion has left me rather sanguine about the Iowa results and very conﬁdent in
our ability to correctly predict the nominee.

Caucuses anywhere, and especially the Iowa caucuses, are notoriously
hard to predict. Steve Forbes’ strong second—place ﬁnish in
2000 and Pat Buchanan’s equally strong second—place ﬁn-
ish in 1996 were both relatively unforseen. The unusual
nature of the system makes polling data in more conven-
tional years very unreliable and, as such, those of us who
made the decision discounted Senator Kerry and Edwards’ late surge. In-state
contacts and historical analysis had all stressed the importance of organiza-
tion over a candidate’s standing the polls.

Congressman Gephardt, in particular, was noted for having a strong orga-
nization built on the unions that had endorsed him. Iowa has an unusually

 

high union population and in all the previous caucuses, for example, Con— I

gressman Gephardt’s first win in Iowa in 1988, the candidate who had the
strongest union support was a strong ﬁnisher, if not the outright winner.

Similarly, Governor Dean had built an impressive organization of young
activists and college students. He also had recruited an army of “Deaniacs”
from out-of—state who came into the Hawkeye State to drive people to the
caucus sites, distribute campaign literature and generally agitate for their cho-
sen candidate.

In the end, though, the momentum that Senators Kerry and Edwards built
up in the closing weeks before the caucuses proved to be more important than
the organizations that Gephardt and Dean had built in the previous two years.
Two factors, more than anything else, can be credited with this unexpected
reversal of fortune.

Firstly, turnout was higher than expected. Even the highest estimates
only predicted 120,000 caucus—goers. Turnout in 2000 was only 61,000, but
this time, nearly 123,000 people attended the caucuses. With so many deter-
mined to attend the caucuses without the help of the union turnout machines,
the people who were recently motivated to vote for Kerry and Edwards easily
overwhelmed the carefully built organizations of Dean and Gephardt. Gephardt

RIGHT or THE AisLE
Br<ErrKiRwAN‘O4

had 12,000 committed voters going into caucus night and about 13,000 people
ended up supporting him in the caucuses. In a year with more regular turnout,
these enthusiastic supporters would have been a good base on which to
build a victory. Unfortunately for the congressman, they were overwhehned
by an unexpected tide of Kerry/Edwards voters who prevented Gephardt
from reaching the viability threshold of 15% in most of the caucus sites.

Secondly, the discovery of Saddam Hussein and the decided upswing in
the economy had convinced many Democratic caucus-goers that electability,
_ not anti—Bush vitriol was more important in a candidate. Ever
since Saddam was pulled out of his spider hole, support for
the former Vermont governor had been slipping. Kerry and
Edwards presented calmer portraits of an experienced, patri-
cian, reliable legislator and a fresh-faced, energetic, Southern
son of a mill worker, respectively. Both portraits were more attractive to
Democrats whose focus had changed from finding the candidate who best
expressed their intense displeasure with the president to ﬁnding the candi-
date who was best equipped to send the president to his Crawford, Texas
ranch.

Finally, we were not alone in making the wrong prediction. Few pundits
believed that Kerry or Edwards could overcome the organizational advan-
tages that Dean and Gephardt had amassed. We were in good company in
picking the wrong candidate.

But whatever our failings may have been in making an Iowa prediction,
Mock Con is equipped like few other organizations to correctly predict the
nominee. While other groups and pundits have been focusing on each pri-
mary contest as it happens, Mock Convention can boast the resources of 55
delegation chairs who have been single-mindedly focusing on the primaries
in their state or territory for an entire year. Since the nominating contest will
almost certainly extend well into February and possibly into March, other
handicappers are handicapped because they have been only focusing on
Iowa and New Hampshire. Mock Convention’s research has contacts across
the nation and has surveyed the political winds in every state. When other
predictors look ahead, contests much beyond the “Sophomore Seven” prima-
ries will be nigh inscrutable. Mock Convention, on the other hand, has al-
ready done research in states far over the horizon.

Look forward to Mock Convention continuing its tradition of accuracy
this weekend.

 

 

till

John Kerry

Aforrner Vice-Governor ofMassachusetts and current Senator from that
state, John Kerry is the current favorite to win the Democratic nomination
Kerry is running on a fairly solid hberal platfonn that includes strong support
for ﬂee trade issues. Kerrybears no ill-will towards any ofhis fellow candidates,
with the notable exception of Howard Dean, for whom he has repeatedly
shown an open and pointed dislike. This probably stems ﬁom the Dean
campaign’s early snide dismissal of Kerry as the “anointed one.” Though
harsh, this comment does carry a grain of truth- Kerry’s biggest weakness is
hisreserved,patriciandemeanor. HeisnotasenergeticasDean, andnotas
closelyintouchwiththepeople asJohnEdwards. Still, heremainsthemanto
beat in New Hampshire and in the race overall. Polled against President Bush
in ahypothetical one on one matchup, he led 49% to 46%, though there was a
3°/orrm'ginoferror. Caley’s oddstowin- 2:1

Howard Dean

Dean, the former governor of Vermont, was considered by many
to be the most likely candidate at the start of the race, but things
haven’t quite gone his way. He is seen by many as too liberal to
defeat President Bush (many Republicans supported him in the hope
of having an easy target). After ﬁnishing a distant third in Iowa,
Dean suffered from what some call his “Mad How” disease, giving a
wild and chaotic speech to his supporters promising victory in New
Hampshire and elsewhere. Still, this is exemplary of his biggest
strength- his ﬁery and aggressive personality. Dean’s energy for
campaigning and strong grassroots support, cultivated primarily
through the Internet, will make him a formidable foe to defeat despite
his various gaffes. Caley’s odds to win— 4:1

eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee   Oi3iN1oNs

in Business:



 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

An ex-four star General and commander of NATO, Clark
is often described as a conservative Democrat. While not
the most popular within the party, Clark enjoys the highest
support from moderates and Republicans, and is currently
the candidate with the highest polls against President Bush,
polling a 52% to 48% against him. Though Clark supports
liberal social reform and foreign policy, he is largely a fiscal
conservative. He believes Dean and Kerry are too liberal to
earn the respect ofthe majority ofAmerican moderates, and
bills himself as the compromise candidate for both Demo-
crats and Republicans who are tired of Bush. Caley’s odds
to win- 2: 1.

John Edwards

A senator from North Carolina, Edwards is the youngest of all
the candidates. Viewed by some as the “renegade kid” of the Demo-
cratic race, Edwards’ strengths lie in his solid people skills, his middle-
class roots, and his exceptional public speaking. Especially popular
among southern Democrats, Edwards’ biggest point is his criticism
of postwar mismanagement of Iraq, especially what he calls “war
profrteering” by price—gouging companies such as Halliburton in the
aftermath of the armed conflict. Though Edwards may or may not
win in New Hampshire, he expects to have his strongest showings in
South Carolina and Missouri, now that Gephardt, a Missouri native,
has dropped out of the race. Caley’s odds to win- 3:1

The Democrats ﬁght it out

Wesley Clark Joesph Lieberman

A Connecticut senator, Lieberman is one of the first successful
national candidates to be Jewish. His poor showing so far probably
has to do with his association with the 2000 Gore campaign, where he
ran as the defeated Vice President. Liebern1an’s platform falls in with
Kerry and Dean as very liberal, but Lieberman lacks the organiza-
tional support of either. He is also somewhat unpopular among
younger voters for his outspoken criticism of violent media. Caley’s
odds to win- 20:1

Al Sharpton

Al Sharpton acknowledged that he has almost no chance at all
of winning the nomination, but says that he is remaining in the race
to raise awareness of minority issues. He is an extreme liberal, like
Kucinich, and polls higher than the Ohioan in some areas, but other-
wise is acknowledged as the last-place runner in the Democratic
race. Caley’s odds to win- 70:1

Dennis Kucinich

- Kucinich has little chance of winning; he is an extreme leﬂist
who wants to abandon Iraq, notable in the past only for his Congres-
sional experience and his stint as Mayor of Cleveland, where he did
not enjoy widespread popular support. Though he received only
1% of the Iowa caucuses’ support, he remains in the race, and says
he expects that he will eventually recover. Polls across the country
say otherwise; he actually polls lower than Sharpton in some loca-
tions. Caley’s odds to win— 70:1

Letters to the Editor

SFHB ex/sis fora reason

Dear Editor:

After reading Mr. Anderson’s editorial
entitled “Rape Must Be Treated As Honor
Violation,” I was concerned that many ofthe
sentiments he expressed resulted from com-
mon misconceptions about the judicial pro-
cess for issues of sexual misconduct. While
I agree with Mr. Anderson, that rape is a
severe breach of the standards of honor for
our community, I maintain that the Student-
Faculty Hearing Board, which is charged
with hearing cases of discrimination and
hazing, as well as sexual misconduct, is a
better way to adjudicate such cases.

In the 1980s, Executive Committee mem-
bers asked that a separate judicial body be
created to adjudicate cases of sexual mis-
conduct, resulting in the creation of what is
now the SFHB. The reasoning was that this
judicial board could undergo special train-
ing to handle these very emotional cases in
a more effective manner, since these student
leaders found it very difficult to deal with
these cases using the same process as Ex-
ecutive Committee hearings. While the EC
no longer hears cases of sexual misconduct,
it nominates students to the SFHB, which is
one way that the body charged with main-
taining our honor system retains ties to the
SFHB.

Mr. Anderson also incorrectly implies
that SFHB sanctions are going to be less

stringent than the single sanction that Ex-
ecutive Committee members must impose on
the guilty. This, in fact, is not the case.
The SFHB may impose any sanctions avail-
able to any of the otherjudicial bodies. In
fact, the Student Handbook clearly states
that “forced sexual intercourse will be sanc-
tioned by dismissal from the University,”
giving the SFHB both the authority and the
obligation to remove those who have com-
mitted this egregious violation of honor
from our community. Rape, in the form of
forced sexual intercourse, is sanctioned by
the same single-sanction as honor cases.
The possibility of the SFHB assigning other
sanctions is not a way out of expulsion, but
rather a way that we can impose sanctions
in cases where the EC would not be able to
impose any sanction.

One rule of the EC, while well-suited to
honor system cases, does not always have
a place in the types of cases adjudicated by
the SFHB and that is the student body hear-
ing. Ifthe EC heard these types of cases as
honor violations, there is a possibility that
the case could come to the point where a
complainant and a respondent are arguing
their cases in front of the entire student
body. Some complainants rightly might
choose not to report a sexual assault in the
first place if they did not wish to have to
testify in such a public forum as to the inti-
mate details of what they suffered, details
which arenecessary and important to mak-
ing a fairjudgment about these emotionally
charged situations. While complainants

may voluntarily choose to discuss these de-
tails publicly, it is problematic for the insti-
tution to require that complainants subject
themselves to the embarrassment of argu-
ing their case in front of the entire student
body. SFHB decisions, instead, are ap-
pealed to the UBA, which is a way of ensur-
ing that the SFHB has oversight without
having procedures that could threaten the
privacy of a complainant who wishes to
maintain that privacy.

Mr. Anderson’s article, while pointing
out the undisputable connection between
rape and a lack of honor, fails to examine
the reasons for the creation of the SFHB.
For these reasons, the SFHB is a better fo-
rum to adjudicate these cases. The EC is
charged with the maintenance of the honor
system, and simply appoints SFHB students
to ensure that parts of honor dealing with
sexual misconduct, discrimination, and ha-
rassment, are adjudicated by individuals
with specialized training, and in a forum that
respects complainant and respondent rights
to privacy.

Sincerely,
Jonathan M. Wortham ’04, Vice Chair-SFHB

EC responds to rape a/1/c/e

Dear Editor:

We are writing in response to Caley
Anderson’s editorial, “Rape must be treated
as Honor Violation,” that appeared in the
Ring-tum Phi on Monday, January 19.

In his article, Mr. Anderson states, “rape
is apparently not considered an Honor Viola-
tion at our University.” First, we would like
to point out that, at least in the past four years,
no case of rape or sexual assault has been
turned over to the Executive Committee. Be-
cause of this, the current EC has not had the
opportunity to formally state whether or not
it sees rape as an Honor Violation. We all
agree with Mr. Anderson that rape is a severe
breach oftrust, is unacceptable, and is as se-
rious or more serious than lying, cheating, or
stealing. -

However, we believe that the Student Fac-
ulty Hearing Board is a forum better suited to
dealing with complaints of rape than is the
EC. Because of its specialized training and
experience in the areas of sexual assault and
rape, as well as its contingency of faculty
members, the SFHB can better handle the com-
plex, emotional nature of such cases.

In addition, Mr. Anderson states, “The
SFHB may or may not dismiss a student found
guilty of rape.” However, in cases of rape,
the SFHB uses the same single sanction pen-
alty of dismissal that the EC uses. Page 42 of
the Student Handbook states: “Forced sexual
intercourse will be sanctioned by dismissal
from the University.”

Any questions may be directed to the EC
members, whose names, email addresses, and
telephone numbers are posted around cam-
pus. Thank you for your time.

Sincerely, /
The Executive Committee ofthe Student Body

I‘

 

t‘

  

JOHNHYLAN)
AssrrANrSi>oRisEDrioR
Fl/lAiI.‘HYlAND@VIlJ.H)U

’r'ia:t:Rrnc-':'et«:.l?E1

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

Generals On four game slide

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L men’s basketball
team dropped three conference
games last week and are in the
midst of a four game losing streak.
Their record stands at 3-13, 2-8
ODAC and is in last place in their
conference.

Last Sunday, the Generals
squared off against Hampde-
Sydney, then the top-rariked tea
in in the country in front of a
packed house at the Warner Cen-
ter. Early on, the Tigers demon-
strated why they are so highly
touted, opening up a 31-10 lead
and holding the Generals to only
two ﬁeld goals in the first ten
minutes of the game. W&L
climbed back into the game, how-
ever, closing the first half on a
14-5 run to cut the deﬁcit to 12
points. They began the second
half the same way they ended the
first, going on a 16-6 run, to close
the gap to just two points, with
just over 13 minutes remaining.

It was as close as the Gener-
als would get, as the Tigers built
up their lead to 18 points and
pulled out a 69-56 victory. The
Tigers held the Generals to just
35% shooting from the field,
which was the difference in the
game. Despite the loss, the
young Generals could take com-
fort in the fact that they were able
to stay close to one of the
nation’s perenially elite teams for
most of the game. Junior guard
Mike Stuart’s 16 points led the

Kristen Brown exempliﬁes student success as athelete,

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRIIER

You’ve got class all day; you need to start study-
ing for that major exam you have tomorrow; lacrosse
practice is going to be extra long today, and you still
need to find time to draft several speeches and meet
with your state delegation for Mock Con because
you’re the State Chair. Stressed out yet?

This may not be an ideal schedule for most of
you; but for junior Kristen Brown, it’s a reality. Brown
is the State Chair of Vermont, captain of W&L’s ﬁeld
hockey team, and a member of the lacrosse team.
She knows a thing or two about managing her time

wisely.

“I really thought hard about whether or not I
was biting off more than I could chew, but I decided
that the hardest work would be at a time right in
between the two seasons,” Brown said. “It has been
hard to schedule weekly meetings around practice

and game schedules.”

Over the past year, Brown has been respon-

Generals, freshman guard Chris
Halkitis had a solid all-around
game with 9 points, 7 rebounds
and 5 assists

The Generals travelled to
Emory and Henry on Wednesday
evening and opened the game,
appearing to have built off of
their solid performance against
Hampden-Sydney. They used a
12-0ﬁrsthalfruntobuilda2l—12
lead. Sophomore forward Phil
Landes accounted for all of the
points on four three-pointers. All
in all, the Generals shot 10 of 14
from three-point range in the first
half to take a 36-26 lead. The Gen-
erals maintained their lead in the
second half and led 49-38 at the
11:40mark.

The game headed downhill
for W&L for the remainder of the
half. The Wasps went on a 17-0
run to take the lead and never
looked back en route to a 76-66
victory. The Generals shot just
36% in the second half and for
the game, committed 23 tum-
overs to E&H’s 13. Landes ﬁn-
ished with 19 points, Halkitis
added 18 and Stuart 12 to round
out double-digit scoring for the
Generals.

W&L faced another highly
touted opponent in Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday, entering
the game 12-3, 6-3 ODAC and
ranked 24th in the country. In a
deja-vu performance to the E&H
game, the Generals took a lead
into halftime and midway through
the second half only to have a

  PORTS

LOOKING FOR A WAY OUT. The Generals continued its losing streak this
past week with three conference losses.

late second-half run crush them.
The Marlins went on a 9-0 run to
take a 46-38 lead with 10:55 left
and took as much as a 55-44 lead.

The Generals roared back
however, and cut the deﬁcit to
57-54 with just under two minutes
left. The Generals could not con-
nect on two layups in the last
minute and the Marlins con-
nected their free throws to ice a

sible for researching the background of the primary
in Vermont, learning about the candidates, and pre-

ﬂoat.

ule.

dieting how Vermont will vote in the 2004 Demo-
cratic National Convention. She also oversees
fundraising and the production of her state’s parade

As if that didn’t seem like enough, Brown has
also been juggling academics and two sports on top
of it all. Fortunately, Brown thrives on a busy sched-

Since Governor Howard Dean is from Vermont,
Brown must also write a speech to nominate him as
well as a speech on Vermont ’s views on Iraq. She

said that only the past few weeks have been the

most challenging.

“It’s really crunch time,” Brown stated while
thinking about the long week ahead of her. “I’m in
the process of making ﬁnal decisions about how
Vermont will vote, building a ﬂoat for the parade,

drafting several speeches, going to lacrosse prac-

tice every day, and getting school work done.”

59-54 victory. Halkitis shot 6 of 9
from three-point range for 19
points to lead W&L and sopho-
more forward David Will
added 14 points and 9 rebounds.
The Generals faced yet an-
other top 5 opponent in confer-
ence leader Randolph-Macon
yesterday afternoonand face
Averett in a non-conference
match-up on Wednesday.

PAGE 5

Wrestling team
drops two in

Ursinus Invitational 

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
men’s wrestling team competed
in the Ursinus Quadrangular in
Collegeville, Pennsylvania on
Saturday. The Generals met up
against Ursinus, McDaniel, and
Wilkes College.

In the first competition Sat-
urday, freshman Max Courtney
pinned Ursinus’ Matt Fralen in
4:05 in the 184-pound match.
Washington and Lee senior
Corey Little lost his 149-pound
match to Mark Barker, 18-6.
Ursinus won the rest of its
matches by forfeit.

In the competition against
McDaniel, Courtney pinned Nate
Klunk in the 184-pound match.
_McDaniel’s Mark Nakasone
pinned Little in 5:50 in the 149-
pound rriatch.

The Generals won the 157-
pound match by forfeit, leaving
McDaniel to win the remainder
of the matches by forfeit except
for the l9_7-pound category in
which there was no bout.

Both Courtney and Little
won their matches against
Wilkes. Courtney pinned his
opponent, while Little defeated

his challenger, 13-4.

There are only three wres-
tlers on the Washington and Lee
team, and only two were able to
attend this weekend ’s contest.
Courtney said the team focuses
on competing individually since
they are forced to forfeit many of
the matches.

“We made a good showing
and went for a combined 4-2 this
weekend,” Courtney said. “So
we showed some respectability.”

Ursinus and McDaniel are
both conference opponents.
Courtney said the conference
match-ups build up to the con-
ference tournament at the end of
February. If the team does well
in that competition, it could move
on to the national championship.

Washington and Lee is now
0-4 overall. The next match for
the Generals is not until Satur-
day, February 7th, when the team
travels to‘ compete against
Albright and Johns Hopkins.
Match time is scheduled for 1 1:00
all). .
The contest against South-
em Virginia that was planned for
this Wednesday has been can-
celled. All of Southern Virginia’s
wrestlers were declared academi-
cally ineligible after the end of fall
term

VT chair

Brown said that she has been able to maintain that’s striving to get places it’s never been before.”

her school work and fully partici-
pate in two sports, but she’s had to
sacriﬁce a lot more of her free time.
Yet even that doesn’t appear to
faze Brown, who says she has thor-
oughly enjoyed the research pro-
cess. .
On the athletic front, Brown
has undertaken a whole other set

of responsibilities. As captain of

the ﬁeld hockey team, she said her
past season was the most demand-
ing she’s ever had. The team,
which is only three years old, is
still working toward building a
solid base.

“It’s exciting to be on a team
that’s making history at W&L,” she
said. “But at the same time it can

 

Now that lacrosse season has
begun, Brown says she is looking
forward to another successful sea-
son. This year’s schedule and prac-
tices will be more intense than ever,
but Brown believes this will take
the team to a new level.

Witll several promising freshman
and great captains, Brown thinks
this is the year the team will begin
competing with the best teams in
Division III women’s lacrosse.

For now, Brown continues to
take each day as it comes. “The
few weeks leading up to the con-
vention have been challenging
and long,” she says in regards to
balancing athletics, academics,
and Mock Con. “I think it will be

also be -challenging to be on an inexperienced team worth it in the en .”

Wednesday, January 28

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDULE

Tuesday, January 27 Thursday, January 29 Friday, January 30 Saturday, January 31 Sunday, F ebmary 1
0 W Basketball at EM U- 0 M Basketball vs. 0 Open 6 Open 0 Swimming vs. Mary 0 W Basketball vs.
-7:00 Avere --7:00 Mount--3:00 Roanoke--3:00
0 Wrestling at S. Vir- 0 M Basketball vs.
ginia-- 7:30 Roanoke--5:00

Ring-tum Phi: a century’s tradition

Golf Etiquette Tip of the Week:

  Only yell ‘fore” when it is appropriate.

LOOK YOUR BEST FOR
MOCK CONVENTION!

Come by and see Skip, Connie and Wilson at the NEW LOCATION.

SKIP THOMPSON’S

BARBER SHOP

17 S. Randolph ~ Lexington, VA

 

Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., &-Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 pm.

Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

 

Sell Trips,
New Rirmg On-(ampus ﬂaps

tall fat grams if

S'f$’|'RAVEI...COM

loitrlmcaiafx

-#1 swim {aw 6)».-mar

   

5%

    
  
   

En:-as (ash, Go in-cf

“WW5

a

.;'Z J“

 

v  .v -3.'>i'-in-_

to-.~.. stances

X-339448-¢3»$9 i mmﬁsuwclxnm

PHI 0 Spore TS

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!
Space is limited! Book Now & Save!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 

    

PAGE 6

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

Womens’ basketball goes 1-2 in past Week

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

Sweet success was the tune
of Monday’s game for the W&L
Women’s basketball team. At the
start of a three-game week, the
girls fearlessly took the court
against Mary Washington Mon-
day evening at the Warner Cen-
ter.

Freshman Jessica Hunsinger
led the Generals to victory with a
game-high score of 14 points and
12 rebounds. Senior Sarah

Michaels also claimed double-
digits with 10 points and 10 re-
bounds. —

Though the game ended in
the General’s favor, 55-50, the
Generals had to protect their lead
all the way down to the last

the Susqueharma Invitational.

minute of the game. Juniors
Laura Hanks and Bethany
Dannelly and sophomore Louisa
Feve secured the win for the Gen-
erals by making foul shots at the
end of the second half.

“The team has made si gnif1-
cant progress this season,” said
Feve of the team’s win. “We
started with only 5 people (be-
cause of people being on other
teams) and we had a brand new
coach, so there was a lot to
learn.”

With little time for recovery,
the girls prepared for their next
game against Hollins. Though
the Generals lead by four points
with 1 l:l6 minutes left, and again
at 2:35, Hollins overcame the
Generals with six straight foul
shots in the ﬁnal two minutes.

Feve again claimed several
points for the Generals; she

, .. . . . [( )-\"
LEADING THE PACK. junior Meredith Walker runs in a 200 meter race in

 

scored the game high of 20
points. Michaels again followed
closely behind with 18 points,
and Hunsinger with 16.

Going in to Saturday’s game,
the team had some new goals in
mind.

“We wanted to pick up our
defensive intensity because it
was lacking a bit and come out
with a win, ” said Feve.
“Unfortuantely, neither of the
two happened. Emory and Henry
beat us in transition and we also
fouled them a lot leading to mul-
tiple three point plays for them.”

The Generals had the lead
with 15:56 left on the clock, but
Emory and Henry overtook the
Generals in the last 15 minutes
with 14 more points. E&H de-
feated the Generals 78-67. Again,
Feve led the team with a high
score of 24 and Hunsinger again

W&L SPORTS
RELEASE

SELINSGROVE, Pa. -— The
Washington and Lee Men’s and
Women’s indoor track and field
teams were both in action on Sat-
urday at the Susquehanna Invi-
tational competing against Divi-
sion II and Division III schools.

Leading the way for the
women was junior Meredith
Walker (Travelers Rest, SC./

followed with 20 points and 12
rebounds. Dannelly contributed
8 points. _

The Generals attribute some
of the loss to the absence of lead-
ing scorer Sarah Michaels who
was not able to make it to the
game.

The team will next play on
Tuesday at Eastern Mennonite
for a 7 p.m. game. For now, the
girls return to the courts and re-
fresh their goals and intentions
for the season.

“The team has a lot of goals
related to basketball and academ-
ics,” claimed F eve, “For the most
part I think we definitely want to
go to the conference tournament
(ODACS) and do well and con-
tinue to improve. Basically, we re-
peat these goals often in prac-
tice, so that they’re always in our
minds.”

Christ Church Episcopal), who
placed third among Division III
competitors in the Long Jump
(l5’5.34”) and eighth among DIII
athletes in the 200 meter (29.09).
Freshman Katherine Brennan
(New Orleans, La./Isidore
Newman) placed third in the pole
vault with a school-record vault
of 9’00.00,” while sophomore
Mary Christopher (Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla./Cardinal Gibbons) fm-
ished third among DIII athletes
in the 800 meter with a time of
2:33.77.

GOING FORT]-[E SCORE. Sophomore Louisa Feve led the Generals in ~

UR’

scoring as the team Went 1-2 over the past week.

Track competes at Susquehanna Invitational

The W&L Distance Relay
team of freshman Tippins Stone
(Nashville, Tenn./Harpeth Hall),
junior Anne Tompkins
(McLean, Va./Potomac School),
freshman Jenny Ratzel (Elm
Grove, Wisc./Brookﬁeld East)
and Christopher placed second
among DIII teams and third
overall with a time of 13: 15.00.

The W&L men were paced
by junior Brian Krupczak
(Cohasset, Mass./Cohasset),
who placed fourth among Divi-
sion III competitors in the 200

meter with a time of 23.72.
Sophomore Keith Sullivan (San
Antonio, Texas/Alamo
Heights) placed sixth among
DIII athletes in the triple jump
with a leap of 39’3.00” and jun-
ior Nathan Johnson (Lexington,
Va./Rockbridge County) was
third among DIII athletes in the
1,500 meters with a time of
4:14.92.

The Generals will return to
action on Sun., Feb. 8, when
they compete in the Christo-
pher Newport Invitational.

.5\s‘

. (‘g
i»\\‘‘“‘‘

 

Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

For more information, visit
www.jhu.edulpostbac or call 410-516-7748.

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program prepares college
graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the bestjmedical schools by giving
them the personal attention, the necessary
science and math courses, and one-to-one
academic advising.

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a
career as a doctor, apply by March 1.

 want to become a doctor.”

lity:
“I don’t have the

required courses
for medical school.”

 

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

T‘

 

Jo

 

3 'PAGE 7

. As the student politicos among us make
the final preparations for Mock Con, it’s only
{fitting that our student of diversity this week
take a political turn also. At a school that
boasts the largest chapter of College Republi-
cans in Virginia, the liberals on campus can
feel left out in the cold. Joanna Persio, ajunior
‘Economics and Environmental Studies major
from Cheshire, Connecticut, was
among those lonely left—wingers on
campus. She wouldn’t accept the
single voice of College Republicans
though. In an effort to balance the
prevailing conservative voices among us,
Joanna strives to create a bi—partisan feel to
W&L through her efforts as president of the
‘(Young Democrats.

“I think I became president by default,”
Joanna recalls of her leadership of the Young
Democrats. At the beginning of her sophomore

‘year, J oanna’s former dorm counselor, Heather
Knorr, sent an email to the hall explaining that
there really was a Democratic group on cam-
pus, and that anyone who was interested
should email Skye Justice. Joanna decided to

‘get involved, but she didn’t find the vibrant
campus organization she hoped for. Instead,
Skye handed her the entire group with only an

    
  

 

ORETHAN}vlAﬂ\ISTRE;tMJoanna believes that her fel-
tttttttt  

old binder of constitutions to guide her. Joanna
faced the daunting task of revitalizing the de-
funct group on a campus renowned for its con-
servative leanings.

At the beginning of last year, Joanna’ held
a sign-up drive outside the Co—op for the Young

, Democrats. The results shocked her: over eighty

people signed up initially, and roughly twenty
more have joined since then.

low students are “more lib-
eral than people think. How-
ever, there are really loud, re-
ally conservative right—wing people.”

Surprisingly, Joanna is not a steadfast
Democratic partisan. Personally, she believes
that “being overly partisan can lead a person to
overlook certain arguements and can inhibit
you from completely understanding an issue.”
All opinions have valid points, and the key to
effective leadership is to be able to benefit from
both sides of an issue. “I’m not really partisan
at all,” Joanna says, and her main purpose in
taking over the reins of the Young Democrats
was to provide an alternative voice to the loud
College Republicans.

Joanna does take some staunch Democratic
positions on certain issues though. She de-

JEB BROOKS/ 11-IERING-TUMPI-1

FIFTH YEAR ON STAGE? Kappa Alpha made a surprise move on Friday by having ﬁfth year senior Eppa Hunton

perform as the Neil Diamond in their act. However, freshmen did perform as backup singers.

CHAMPIONS. Pi Beta Phi Lip Sync Winners , Lauren Kampf and Michele Theroux are shown performing their
gwinning act, “Me Against the Music,” by Britney Spears and Madonna. Wendy Kang and Mariko Ishikawa also

performed in the act.

OVER THE TOP. Sigma Chi pledges were a contest favorite, performing Madonna’s “Like a Prayer.” Despite the
stripping, Sigma Chi did not get gonged. The 20th Annual Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger Lip
Sync was held last Friday in the Pavilion. Changes marked this years Lip Sync. The format of this years
‘performance was a gong show. Any acts deemed inappropriate or just plain bad were gonged off the stage.
Lambda Chi and Kappa Delta get the honor of being the first fraternity and sorority to get gonged in the
history of Lip Sync. The winners, Pi Beta Phi, received free Fancy Dress Tickets and an engraved trophy that

they will keep for one year.

LIFE

.«Glimpse at Washington and Lee Young Democrats on c

 

MEGANMORGAN

Amsztrrtmoi

EMAn;Nri<c.AriAB(z,NtUE1J

scribes herself as really pro—choice, but resents
being called an “infanticide crusader” by cer-
tain members of the press. “It’s a private is-
sue,” Joanna says. “A woman’s reproduction
isn’t a public policy issue. The idea of when
life starts is a huge religious, moral and ethi-
cal issue. To value a la.wmaker’s feeling over
that of the woman’s is a huge deal.”

She is also interested in issues concern-
ing the environment, poverty, and education.
She volunteers regularly at Head Start, and
has taken coursework in both environmental
and poverty studies.

As for President Bush, Joanna thinks he
is “taking our country in the wrong direction”
and believes that “he has done some remark-
ably unintelligent things.” She strongly dis-
agrees with him on the issue of gay marriage.
“His idea of a constitutional amendment limit-
ing marriage is completely contradictory to the
nature and spirit of the constitution,” Joanna
_ascertains.

Joanna will participate in Washington
Term this spring, where she hopes to work for
another liberal, hopefully a congresswoman
from Connecticut. As for Mock Convention,
she thinks “it’s a really great opportunity to
get a bunch of Democrats to come to campus

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

ampus   

 

' B

and make people listen to them.” Joanna
helped write the political platform for the con-
vention and serves as Research Chair for the
Louisiana delegation.

The staff of the Ring—tum Phi recognizes that
diversity comes in all forms, in both traditional
and non—traditional definitions. Every week we
strive to feature a different student of diver-
sity. If you know a student who adds a little
something different to our university and think
they would make a great spotlight in the Phi,
please email Kelly Jo Larsen at
larsenk@wlu.edu and nominate them.

 

We W1 sh the W &L community a succesful, T°'"~'“'"““°'"P”“y
- . Interviews?
fun and safe Mock Convention weekend. 
. . Let us help you look and feel
~ .  end a our your best!!
U n  r  1   y t Custom and Ready Made Suits
is  e an e r S your engagmen 2111- and Sports Coats
anonymous  to Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories
l THE CLEANEST or THE CLEAN. p 1 W u'6 u St d “D k &
u en ac ages
CALL US FOR ALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING, Quick ts G; , Cm; 1-cam Available
,L LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS . _ _ _
Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Great Service to EXt"a°rdi”airrIVa$]ama"aderle ContactAdam,Williarns
. . . _ _ _ . f ' tm t
 F1rst—Rat6Qual1tY :::;:t:..:’:IW°~ °’3v‘it?i"‘;3:‘:Ai‘:°’
' old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
‘ GRE 1460, MAT 85; 540—815—4557
#7 North J Bffef S011 SUCCI dry cleaning,  @ Wlu°edu see C°m_p'ete_ "St at‘ Adam.Wi11iams @tomj amesretailcom
4.63-3622 laundry, alterations www'tnp'emne'°rg
_\i .___
9'

 

PAGE 8

It wasn’t so long ago that Washington
and Lee students cared about Mock Con-
vention, which, oh bythe way, is this week-
end. Before libelous state t-shirts (see 1-Da-
Ho) became the mold, or at least the most
entertaining facet of Mock Con, people ac-
tually argued about whom would be nomi-
nated.

This past weekend, the Mock Con powers-
that-be predicted that Missouri

 

THE “A!”

University’s first Mock Conventi

 

The lore of Mock Con is n'ch——from U.S.

Sen. Alben Barkley’s sudden collapse and death
while on stage in 1956 to the rumor of a late-
night hookup between a former Arkansas gov-
ernor and a W&L student in 1988.

However, nothing outdoes the tale of the

very first Mock Convention of 1908. The cau-
cus pitted the fervent and controversial Will-
iams Jennings Bryan against Minnesota gov-

~ ernor John A. Johnson.

l{ep.Dicl; giepharcllt would :torlr(n THEI.pQRMA'1'10N 190l;rorr1rhth;Ring—Turn is
into nerg oring owa an ta e : “ e ryan men in en e
the caucus. _,J_@_TROTI'ER‘04 _ to push things through and nomi-

 

Since then, Gephardt has

summarily excused himself from the race after
finishing a woeful fourth in the caucus. The
bow out was so abrupt that
dickgephardt2004.com is no longer even an ac-
tive Web site.

Mock Con’s elite should not fret because
outside of a few anti-Denbowlites, nobody
cares. The Oklahoma State Delegation will hold
its coin toss later this week in order to select a
nominee. The truth is that no one gives two
hoots that Mock Con is in danger of its first
mis—prediction since 1972, when students chose
Kennedy over eventual-nominee McGovern.

In order to rekindle that Mock Con fire of

nate their favorite that night, while

it was the general prediction, judging from their
dilatory tactics of the precedingnight that the
Johnson men would stay proceedings as much
as possible. The fact that three or four sec-
tions of the platform had consumed the greater
part of the preceding night made it look as
though the convention might last a week.”

All day Thursday, state delegations con-

vened to select their candidate. For whatever
reason, the tempers of the respective delega-
tions began to simmer.

The Phi wrote, “words are wholly inadequate

to express the degree of interest and enthusiasm s
of delegates, which frequently manifested itself

‘WORD?

on delivered rumble

 
 
    

A MBGANMORGAN
ARis&l_iI~tEDr10R

mm m

Eventually the unruly crowd was tempo-
rarily tempered and the moderator called the
proceedings to orderso that the states could
declare their nominations. However, each com-
ing proclamation was like pouring kerosene
over an open ﬂame.

Nebraska chose Bryan. New York coun-
tered with Johnson. Tennessee took Nash-
ville Tennessean newspaper editor Edward W.
Carmack out of nowhere. Each nomination
was instantly followed by long arrays of
curses and boos from the opposite side. “The
unit rule got enough curses to last it, until a
bird could carry the shores of every sea to

"Mars and a back a thousand times, carrying

only one grain of a sand at a time,” wrote the
Phi. To translate, the convention was taking
a long time.

Then it was Kansas’ turn. And all hell broke
loose. Johnson’s supporters in the Kansas del-
egation, trailing in the overall poll and feeling
that they were getting the nominational screw,
questioned the integrity of the convention.
Bryan’s proponents would not listen. So, in-
stead of talking it out, the two sides just duked
it out. Then the whole convention joined in.
with New York leading the charge. After sev- A
eral jabs and a few kicks were exchanged, or-

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT ARTS AND LIFE
EDITOR

The 23rd Mock Convention
will kick off Friday morning at
10:30 with a parade. Floats, don-
keys and other festive sites will
take 2 hours to proceed down
the route.

All 55 delegations will be in-
volved in the parade. Of the 55
delegations, 50 are expected to
have actual ﬂoats, while the re-
maining ﬁve delegations will be
riding in trucks.

Each delegation has a theme
unique to their state or territory.
Pemisylvania will have an Amish
and Hershey theme, while the Ne-
vada delegation will be building the
Las Vegas strip.

Montana is just one example
of how time constraints and lack
of money inﬂuence the ﬂoat
building process. “Plans started
as a life size horse with moun-

' tains,” said Montana Facilities
f - ‘ Chair, Sara Duckworth. “Since
the horse would have taken
months to build, we had to
change our plan.”

Duckworth then began to
look at the Montana state ﬂag as
inspiration for the ﬂoat. The ﬂag
has an emblem with mountains
and a waterfall. Because of bud-
get problems, the delegation used
cardboard to build the ﬂoat.
Duckworth began construction

I : -‘ of the ﬂoat with members of the
Montana delegation early last
Saturday. In addition to building
the ﬂoat, every member of the del-
egation will be in a cowboy
themed outﬁt.

Five donkeys will be leading
the parade this year in honor of the

     
     
   
   
   
   
  
     
      
     
       

 

old, we need to look to the past for inspiration.

Parade to proceed

Democratic Party. In addition to the
many ﬂoats, the parade will also in-
clude Uncle Sam on stilts, the Lib-
ertyHallVolLmteers, andadrumand
ﬁfe band The local bands could not
march in the parade because ofthe
regional band competition.
The parade will begin at
Brewbaker Field then turn right
onto Wallace Street From Wallace,
the parade will then take a right
onto Taylor Street. The parade will
then go north on Taylor to Hous-
ton Street. It will follow Houston
to Main Street. , The parade will
turn leﬁ on Washington Street and
go past the Doremus Gym to
Nelson Street. From Nelson, the
parade will go up to West Denny
Circle to the freshman parking lot,
Ruins, and Pavilion lot, where the
ﬂoats will be immediately disas-
sembled.

Awardswillbe giventotheAll-
Around Best Float and the Most
Humorous Float. First, second, and
third place prizes will be awarded
The judges include Mimi Ehod, Tho-
mas Burish, and other campus per-
sonalities.

The ﬂoats must be assembled
and ready to move at 8 a.m. Fri-
day morning. The parade will be
lined up by that time and will start
at 10:30 a.m. -Approxirnately ﬁf-
teen people can ride on the ﬂoats
with a few others walking in the
parade. Everyone else must watch
from the street.

‘The city has been very help-
ful, as well as the community,” said
Parade Chairman Emily Tyson.
“Flags will go up this Monday in
town and remain up until the follow-
ing Monday.” She went on to say
that store owners will be decorating
their windows to get everyone in a
festive mood.

in the character of a ‘scrap’ or a heated ‘set-to. ”’

der again was restored, but not for long.

BRINGIN’ D: THE MONEY. Fundraising co-chairman Thomas W/orthy
works hard to make sure Mock Convetion will happen. W/orthy, and
his counterpart Brooks Morgan, spend hours each week on the phone
with potential donors relating the academic merits of Washington and
Lee’s Mock Convention. His southern twang and quick wit, known
Well to most Washington and Lee students, serves his purposes well.

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

Near the end of the convention, Student
Chairman Willard Neal Grubb made a ruling
that “incensed” the Johnsonians. A.devo-
tee of Johnson jumped on a chair and yelled
to his fellow students to “bolt” from the
gym. Thereafter, all of those in favor of
Johnson left the gym and reconvened in the
English building where they nominated
Johnson for president and Carmack for vice
president. '

After the Johnson men left, the main
convention nominated its own president,
Bryan, and vice president, Charles A.
Culberson.

In spite of the brawl, the Phi called the
event a success. “The convention in every
particular was a glowing success,” it wrote.
“While some bitterness existed among the men
on that night, yet all day yesterday nothing
could be seen by the downy wings of the dove
of peace as it ﬂuttered with sweetest of com-
placency over the camps of the ‘warring’ fac-
tions.

So this weekend, if you’re a Deaniac from
Wyoming or a Sharptonian from Mississippi,
and you’re angry, knock someone’s block off.
After all, it was in this schizo——kill everyone—
spirit upon which Washington and Lee’s first
Mock Convention was founded.

EB ROOKS HE ING-TUM HI

The suit will almost certainly convince unsure potential donors that
they must contribute. His Uncle Sam outﬁt was worn by other steering
committee members throughout the week. Students saw General
Chairman Noah Rhodes, Treasurer W/illiam Litton, Political Chairman i‘
Michael Denbow and Social Chairman Mike Baker dressed up in an
effort to help build anticipation for the Convention.

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
 

  

      
       
     
    
   
   
   
 
   
    
   
   
 
    
  
    
     
   
    
    
    
    
   
    
  
     
     
 
   
    
   
 
    
   
   

  
    
    
    
       
      
      
   
      
    
     
     
    
      
      
        
       
 

sor, “BS detectors.”

     

 

(1) Props to Lambda Chi for being the ﬁrst act to
be gonged in Lip Synch history.

S3611.

(iii Shame on the Lip Synch judges for gonging
the Kappa Delta “Yellow” act. The girls built a sub-
marine and didn’t even get to use it.

(D Shout out to‘ religion Professor Jason Fuller,
by far the coolest professor this campus has ever

q) The only thing your “milkshake” is bringing 
you is a few extra pounds.

 I think I speak for every male anthropology

Eighties rockers Bad Hair Day missed a spe-
cial someone this past Saturday night.

0:) Kudos to the good citizens of Lex for bringing
a tattoo and body piercing parlor back to the mean
streets of our fair city.

Q"; Purse, now that “he’s gone,” how about we
catch up on our weekend apart? On second
thought, how about NO?

41) Kudos to Kappa Sig for throwing meat, rip-
ping the heads of babies and for ‘GONG DEZ NUTS ’ r'f_{’,~
sign at LipSync.

The fact that they make it in your size does
not mean it isn’t a crime against humanity to wear
it. After all, they do manufacture bikinis for preg-
nant ladies.

qr Big 12 Mock Con was the party of the year!

When it is discovered that a candidate for
a position as W&L is either soulless or a sa-
dist, is he immediately positioned in the
Registrar’s Office? .

student when I say, “Professor Bell, will you many

me?”

(9 Congratulations to Matthew B. McDerrnott for
being named one of BE magazine’s student advi-

mails?

Q I’ve heard of booty calls, but who booty e-

Q) Two-for-one holiday! Today is both Australia
Day and India’s Republic Day. Party!

 I Way to go, Thomas! You did a great job as Lip
Synch emcee. Way to make the Phi proud.

(1) What’s with people playing Trivial Pursuit in
the living room of the Commons?

«is Anyone who wants to play Trivial Pursuit
should meet in the living room of the Commons
Thursday at 12.

(I) B&G should learn to paint trim without paint-
ing windows shut.

 Can someone please do something about the
loose step in the all-too spirally spiral staircase in
the Commons? 2

Q Brown Louis Vuittons are classic. If
accessorized tastefully, they can be worn with any
outﬁt, regardless of the color of the shoes. After
all, women have been spotted with these trademark
trunks since 1854.

cf; Old George looks great in the Commons.

 How did all the sororities get their own rap

+-

songs? That is so cool. To hear them, click to
www.inodyiedliving.com/a7$crilla.htm.

(‘#3 Want to tell Princeton Review what you think

of our school? http://survey.revie'w. com

nice one!
cp Go Patriots!
Panthers suck!

ch Happy Birthday to Eddie Van Halen, turning
49, and Wayne Gretzky, turning 43.

, Don’t eat Sprees. Too much sugar, it’s bad for
your teeth.

(3) Three cheers for NASA. Way to get Spirit go- it

ing again.

Special thanks to the MetroLex merchants who

decorated in red, white and blue to celebrate Mock ,
Con. Be sure to stop by The College Town Shop '
A and The Cutting Edge.

(53 Ice skating is the best PE class ever.

V

. So, the snow didn’t close campus. Does the
physical plant ever take a day off?

:1; Don’t forget to buy your Mock Con memora- ,
bilia available all this week in the Commons Room. '

:3: Brett Kirwan is a big tool.

:1; E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and stories 3
I

of Mock Con rowdiness to phi@wlu.edu.

I

s‘

Lots of January birthdays out there, so have a '

"U

  
    
   
   
    
  

   
  

