  

 Students ready for  
t inaugural Habitat Blitz Build

BY KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Habitat for Humanity
will hold a Blitz Build for the
ﬁrst time, in Lexington from

’ April 3 to April 6, 2004 . The
build will be at 123 Preston
Street. Washington and Lee’s
chapter, the Rockbridge Area
Habitat, VMI, Youth United,

1;’ and Southern Virginia Univer-

sity have raised money for the
build, and over a hundred vol-
unteers are expected each day.

“We are expecting 120

"’ to 150 volunteers at the site

each day,” said Rockbridge

.. 92.
:.« ‘ | I
° ii fl
. . '

Dakota. Applicants are chosen
after an interview process which
includes a review of current liv-
ing conditions, ability to pay
mortgage, and agreement to put
in at least three hundred hours
on the build. Since 1989, Habi-
tat for Humanity has built 21
houses for citizens of
Rockbridge County. The April 3
build will be the first blitz build
for the chapter.

Most Habitat homes are
built within three to four
months. Bryant’s house will
be constructed in four days
with volunteers from all parts
of the Rockbridge community.

Area Habitat The house
Director - willhaveits
Dan Walz. Rockblldgé Area _ grand open-
“Come and Volunteering in Profile in g on
help us roam: orHumuni Tuesdaw
build or f ly I April 6,
watch the 2004, but all

construction activities.” Vol-
unteers will include W&L
students and staff; all are
welcome to participate.

“I’m looking forward to
taking a break from studying
for finals and using my en-
ergy towards working on the
house,” says Beth Lidinsky,
’O7, who worked with Habi-
tat during Pre-Orientation to
build a house. “It is always
impressive how quickly the
house can progress with our

help and I leave with the »

amazing feeling that we have
helped create a new home for
a family.”

The house will be built
for Rogenia Bryant, a Mohawk
Carpet employee, and her son,

are welcome to come see the
house at any point during its
build.

For additional informa-
tion, contact Dan Walz, Ex-
ecutive Director, at 463-3770
or habitat@rockbridge.net,
or Katie Henderson, Habitat
for Humanity publicity chair
of Washington and Lee
Chapter, at (540) 463-3901 or
hendersonk@wlu.edu.

Habitat for Humanity is
a fairly young charitable orga-

nization that works to provide.

housing for the needy. Volun-
teers work together to con-
struct homes fromﬁmaterials
that are either donated directly
or purchased with donated
funds.

E-mail news briefs to phi@wlu.edu

G-TUM

lire student voice of Washington and Lee Unioersizysince 1897

R WASHINGTON AND LElE UNIVERSITY
E .

PHI

I" W W W W W W "T '"'”‘ "1
i April Fools i
I SECTION INSIDE I
‘" "' ”“ '“ "” “7ro"” '72:»?

MONDAY, MARCH29, 2004

Renowned writers visit campus
Wolfe recalls college, career in occlusive

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRIIER

Tom Wolfe visited Washington and Lee
last weekend for his lecture series. And he also
came to see old friends.

Wolfe stayed with one of his friends from
his Phi Kappa Sigma pledge class that graduated
in 1951. Another friend came to visit. The three
men in their sevendes laughed, joked, and teased
one another like they had more than forty years
ago. In the midst of an excited yet casual conver-
sation about fraternities parties and changes to
W&L, his two friends chatted with “Tom” about
some of his famous highlights.

“What was your favorite book,” asked one.

“Probably Radical Chic” answered Wolfe,
who added that of all of his books it most closely
followed his original plan for the subject.

Wolfe, the author of renowned books such
as A Man in Full and The Bonﬁre of the Vanities,
might be the most famous alumni to graduate from
Washington and Lee. But in his early days at
W&L as a St. Chiistopher’s kid, Wolfe resembled
a typical, socially concerned freshmen.

“-You felt if you didn’t get into a fraternity
in your first week of school, your life was
over,” said Wolfe.

Wolfe got into Princeton and W&L, but
he chose W&L because it was closer and less
complicated. “In those days college was sim-
pler,” said Wolfe. “If you had the tuition you
could go to any University you wanted.”

Wolfe played baseball for three years, be-
fore playing two years for a senii-professional
team. Wolfe had a greater desire to play baseball

than to write at that time. “If I had been offered a ‘

contract class D, I would have taken it,” said
Wolfe. “It’s the American male dream.”

Wolfe was one of three student edi-
tors on the first Shenandoah staff, which was
“a brainchild of the young faculty,” accord-
ing to Wolfe, who liked the literary magazine
because “I got my stories published.”

Although Shenandoah represented an*op“‘ "

portunity to write and create a magazine, Wolfe
and the other students had different visions of

UVA troupe teaches men  
compassion for rape victims

PHOTO BY CORBIN g

GOOD OLD DAYS. Wolfe donned his ever-
recognizable white suit for his alma mater.

the end product than the professors. Wolfe
wanted the ﬁrst issue to picture an overdosed
Heroin addict, but the teachers rejected the idea
Wolfe thinks students at W&L should
take advantage of the liberal arts courses sur-
rounding them. “I think you do better taking
more history, literature, and social sciences.”
While he is a legendary jouirialist, Wolfe
doesn’t understand going to Journalism school,
except for the aid it might provide with job hunts.
“Everyone interested in writing at W&L
should take a couple steps back and analyze the
socialsituatioriespeciallysocialcliquesaiidtheword
coo  said Wolfe. “It’s a fascinating word, cool.”
Wolfe’s new novel addresses the social
scenes at colleges across America. To write
his new book, I am Charlotte Simmons, he
visited schools such as Chapel Hill, Michi-
g'ari, University of Florida, and Stanford.
“I stayed away from W&L because I want
safe harbors,” said Wolfe.

Bergman opens Ethics Institute
with keynote on ‘End of News’

Lowell Bergman, the television jour-
nalist whose relationship with “60 Min-
utes” inspired the film
“The Insider,” delivered
the keynote Washington
and Lee University’s
37th Institute on the Eth-
ics of Journalism this Fri-
day in Lee Chapel.

Bergman is consid-
ered one of the best jour-
nalists in the country and
founded the Center for
Investigative Reporting and is a New York
Times contributor. His keynote speech, “The
End of News” detailed the commercialization
of news in a market-driven economy.
Bergman is currently a teaching fellow at UC-
Berkeley’s Graduate School of Journalism.

Wolfe actually examined students’ lives
by attending fraternity parties and other so-
cial events. In a small effort to blend in more,
he opted not to wear his trademark white suit
at these parties, choosing a more traditional
navy blazer instead.

Wolfe actually started wearing his fa-
mous white suit everyday because of an ac-
cidental purchase. When he reached New
York as a young reporter, he needed suits
for the dress code. In June he decided to
buy a white suit, which is not original for
his home town of Richmond, Va. But “the
silk tweed was too hot to wear in the sum-
mer,” according to Wolfe. So he started wear-
ing it in colder weather.

White made a lot of people angry,” said
Wolfe. “Suddenly it was ﬁin to get dressed in
the moming.” That was over forty years ago.

Sitting in Lee Chapel, Wolfe could have
talked for hours about his intimate bond with
Washington and Lee. “W&L is so different than
other places,” said Wolfe. “Here you get to know
so many people; it’s a fimction of the size.”

 

THE Exrcuni/E Connmrr
Helen Hughes ‘04

Prezdoit

Anne johtmsen ‘O5

VoePr5zdent

Cullen Carter ‘04

VOLUME GVll,~Ne-31‘

 

 

Nominate 2004’s Convocation speaker

The Student Affairs Committee seeks your input regarding the
University’s Convocation speaker for Fall 2004. Please take a few
moments to nominate someone whom you believe can speak to the
values of the University community or can address a major current
issue relevant to the Washington and Lee University community for
the coming academic year. We are particularly interested in someone
related to the University community (for example, an alum, someone
from the faculty, staff or a student, a parent of a student, a friend to
the University, etc.). We also welcome your suggestions for issues of
interest if you have no speaker to nominate. Please send your nomi-
nations by April 30 to Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students, 242 Univer-

sity Commons or dwatkins@wlu.edu.

Biology professor wins grant

Biology Professor E. William Hamilton IH of Washington and Lee
University has been awarded a National Science Foundation grant to
study how rising carbon dioxide (CO2) levels in the atmosphere are
endangering plant life and whether this growing global problem ulti-
rnately could impact the productivity of agricultural crops. The $131,000
NSF grant will allow Hamilton, the project’s principal investigator, to
conduct ﬁeld and laboratory research with his W&L biology students
into how different types of plants are affected by climatic extremes.

STAFF WRITER

Thursday evening, a traveling
organization from UVA put on a pro-
gram for the men of Washington and
Lee. The program was entitled “How
to help a sexual assault survivor:
What men can do.” Their aim was to
educate males what they can do to
help women who have been raped.

The organization, named after the
number of college aged women who
have been sexually assaulted since age
14, is an offshoot of the National Orga-
nization of Men’s Outreach for Rape

Education, or NO MORE.

1 in 4 was started at the Univer-
sity of Maryland, and chapters have
been starting up rather quickly at
other college campuses. Support at
this past week seemed good and the
prospect of a chapter starting here

seems likely.

BY JORDAN ANDERSON

There were about 8 members of the
group here, all of different backgrounds,
from fraternity president to varsity soccer

player. Some had experience helping
women with rape; others just wanted to
make a difference. At UVA, 1 in 4 has about
30 members total that tour colleges and
educate people about sexual abuse. .

The program did an excellent job
illustrating for the audience what the
emotional and physical stress of rape is
like, a subject that many men cannot
fathom.

In addition to presenting informa-
tive statistics, the group emphasized di-
rect ways that one can assist a rape vic-
tim move on and receive help.

Members of the audience de-
scribed the event as “absolutely won-
derful, and an excellent representation
of the school.”

Blair Crunk, ‘07, said that it was
“Enlightening to see the difference we
can make if we pay just a little more at-
tention to victimized women.”

For information about rape or 1 in
4 visit I the website http://
www.nomorerape.org.

Production director Christopher
Lauderman contributed to this article.

Panel initiates discussion regarding diversity, quotas

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SERNIOR STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University’s NAACP
Chapter held an open forum in Northen Audi-
torium last Tuesday night. “Affirmative Action
at Washington and Lee: Did you fill a quota?”
was designed to start a dialogue about race and
admissions.

Dean Jeanine Stewart and Dean Tammy
Futrell were present at the forum, as well as ad-
missions representative Erin Hutchinson. Ap-
proximately 10 ' students were in attendance,
many of whom were members of NAACP. Late
publicity as well as other conﬂicting campus
events contributed to the low turnout.

Hutchinson explained the admissions pro-
cess as it relates to minorities. There are no quo-

tas for minorities, only goals set by the trust-
ees. These goals are based on a study of diver-
sity profiles at small, private institutions such
as W&L. The trustees seek to introduce more
diversity to campus without sacrificing aca-
demic standards or exceeding the financial aid
budget.

Hutchinson explained that while reading
applications, admissions always has applicants
with extraordinary qualities who will automati-
cally be accepted regardless of race. There are
also applications that are rejected during a first
read through.

It is when considering the leftover appli-
cations that race and other issues of diversity
become a factor. In these cases, when two stu-
dents with equal qualifications seek admission,
admissions officers take into account diversity
and the goals of the trustees.

Hutchinson also explained that even when
the admissions office accepts diverse students,
not all of them enroll. She said that admissions
is very aggressive in recruiting minority stu-
dents, because they are less likely to have heard
of W&L. M

The W&L NAACP chapter decided to host
the forum because they were concerned that mem-
bers of the student body had the wrong impres-
sion about minority students on campus.

They sought to dispel rumors that minority
students gained acceptance to the university on
lower standards, and that many minority students
were here on financial aid, or came to the univer-
sity because ﬁnancial aid was offered to them.

The forum opened up dialogue on why
these false perceptions exist, and what could be
done to inform students that the rumors were
not true.

Setretmy
March 1, 2004

A member of the Student Body has de-
cided to withdraw after being found guilty of
committing an Honor Violation in an Execu-
tive Committee Hearing. The student submit-
ted work that was not his/her own on a paper.
The student’s paper contained multiple pas-
sages that matched or closely paraphrased
passages from the assigned book and mul-
tiple intemet sites. The student did not cite or
otherwise attribute a majority of this work to
anyone other than himself/herself.

In defense, the student stated that he/
she was in a rush and did a sloppy job with
citations. The student also stated that it was a
poorly written paper and that he/she did not
intentionally take credit for another person’s
work He/she claimed that he/she did not have
the book or intemet sites in front of him/her while
writing the paper, and being in a rush, wrote the
paper only using notes that he/she had made
while reading the book and intemet sites. The
student also stated that while writing the paper,
he/she thought that certain passages within the
notes were liis/her own work, and did not re-
quire citation. During the Hearing, the student
produced hand written notes and type written
notes containing many of the passages that
matched or resembled the book and intemet sites.

The Executive Committee found, how-
ever, by conclusive and credible evidence and
testimony that the student had submitted work
that was not his/her own for a paper. The Com-
rriittee determined that throughout the hand
written and type written notes the student had
acknowledged tlieauthor of the passages. In
addition, some passages from the paper were
verbatim of intemet sites and/or the book, and
not of the notes, which were claimed to be the
only resource available to the student while
he/she was writing the paper. Thus, the Com-
mittee found that the paper submitted was in
violation of the Honor System.

In response to student requests, the
Executive Committee has decided to renew its
practice of posting student body notices in
student newspapers.

 

 

PAGE 2

Siiiiiii )1TORIAL
Of April Fools...

Satirical humor is a hallmark of The
Ring-tum Phi’s annual April Fool’s edi-
tion. As always, articles written in this hu-
morous spirit appear on pages three and
four. We publish these stories as a light-
hearted attempt to poke fun at some of
our peers and administrators and highlight
some of the quirks of living on W&L’s
campus. Writing these stories has been a
group effort meant to amuse our readers;
it is not meant to single out those we tease.

...and a dwindling list of places
for studying during ﬁnals week

It’s nearly ﬁnals week, and where
will you be studying? For more and more
beleaguered Washington and Lee book-
worms, the sad answer is that it’s not in
a university classroom. T

The pain of this classroom crunch is
felt by students who ﬁnd locked doors at
nearly every turn, from the Science Center
or the Williams School and all points in be-
tween. Study groups who assume a right to
convene after class are turned out by secu-
rity guards on an increasingly regular basis.

Two things are going on here: the
school’s push for more multimedia class-
rooms has made more areas off-lirnits
after business hours, and departments in
charge of those rooms have done a poor
job of alerting students to their options.
When you ﬁnd out that you could have
checked with a secretary and reserved
a room, it’s usually too late.

Thepotential of disappearing thousand-
dollar multimedia equipment (see last
week’s laptop theft article) and the trashing
of rooms are legitimate concerns, but so
should be providing adaquate study space.

But students usually take their
grurnblings to the guard with the lock and
key, not to the department leaders who
set room-locking policy. '

So, the next time you can’t ﬁnd a
suitable location for your last-rninute
cramming, don’t complain to the secu-
rity guard. Remember to tell your depart-
ment that if you are willing to claim re-
sponsibility, you want your rooms back.

TrirRiNc~TnMl’ir

(‘Au-:rANuuuoN

QNONSFDIIOR
andersonc@wluedu

PINIONS  

MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2004

Pledge of Allegiance complaint has little merit

The infamous “Pledge of Allegiance” case
has ﬁnally gone to the Supreme Court. The com-

g plainant in the case, one Michael Newdow, says

that use of the phrase “under God” in the Pledge
constitutes an unconstitutional establishment of
religion by preferring theistic religions, or reli-
gions that believe in a deity, over non-theistic
religions or belief systems that do not include
religious status. The 9th Circuit Court, the fed-
eral judicial body that last ruled on the case,
agreed with him, saying that the Pledge would
have to be taken out of public schools. On ap-
peal, the case is now in the Supreme Court.

Technically, we should admit, there is a le-
gal case here. The 1st Amendment does ban
Congress from making an ille-

But honestly, who does he think he’s lciddin g?
Almost no one who recites this pledge honestly
believes that the “under God” section of it is a
religious supplication. The Pledge, these days,
is taken for what it is- a simple civic afﬁrmation.
It is part of a (perhaps unfortunate) tradition in
American government of deistic civicism. The
phrase “In God We Trust” is on our currency,
the motto “God Bless America” adorns the
nation’s bumper stickers, and the Supreme Court
itself opens with the phrase “God save the United
States and this honorable Court.”

The “God” mentioned in such a public
context is not a speciﬁc being, and can even be
construed as being some sort of unifying spirit

rather than a deity. Even among

gal establishment of religion, MODERATE’S MUSINGS our founders, such differences of
and having students recite the ‘ opinion existed, and yet were set
pledge in public schools does CALEY ANDERSON 06 aside. Jefferson himself, who

mean that the government is

indirectly sponsoring it. The fact that there
might be a number of students in public schools
to whom the “under God” phrase would not
apply makes it understandable that this case
has come so far. Some would even go so far as
to say that the “God” mentioned in the Pledge
is implicitly the Christian God, a reﬂection of
the religious beliefs of the majority of Ameri-
cans.

In fact, the Pledge of Allegiance, which
was written near the end of the 19th Century,
did not originally include the line “under God,”
which was added in 1954 after an intense cam-
paign on the part of the Knights of Columbus,
a religious group associated with the Catholic
Church.

So if we go by the letter of what’s being said
here, there is, in fact, a violation of the 15‘ Amendment,
because students in public schools are reciting what
is effectively a “religious prayer,” according to
Newdow.

WAS a Deist, acknowledged that
the “God” referred to by his peers was not neces-
sarily their God from his point of view, and he had
no Constitutional qualms.

Also damning to’Newdow’s argument are
the dual truths that a: no one ever forces anyone
to say the pledge, and b: the Pledge doesn’t really
have a set format. In public schools, students are
free not to say the pledge. They can even sit
down and refuse to salute or pay respect to the
ﬂag. That certainly falls under the 1st Amend-
ment. Thus, no establishment is being forced
when you combine this fact with the idea that the
“God” being saluted is not a speciﬁc deity.

Secondly, the Pledge is not understood by
all as “I pledge allegiance to the ﬂag of the United
States of America, and to the Republic for which it
stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.”

Some more left-leaning individuals either
recite the same pledge without “under God,” or
recite a version that goes “‘I pledge allegiance to

Reach out and talk to someone

 

“This is my iceberg; it belongs to me.”

— Marco Evaristti, a Danish artist who used three
ﬁre hoses, 20 helpers, and 780 gallons of red dye.
to paint a Greenland-area iceberg completely red.

 

‘&'A<.i-m-cczoze Aw; its l,=':~n»'.:r.:m] )

Erin Julius

Chris Lauderman
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Megan Morgan
Cody Gabbard
John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Vanessa Arness

Managing Editor
Production Director
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Production Assistants
Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Rob Rain ,
Leggett Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb
Andrew Latimer

Business Managers

Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir
Distribution Dir
Editor in chief

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Let’s talk. When was the
last time you sat down and had
a nice leisurely conversation
with a good friend or with any-
one about nothing? Outside of
meals, I rarely have time to just
sit down, sip a cup of coffee, and
talk, especially about nothing in
particular. And I’m not alone.

Too often in our busy lives
as students on this campus and
just as people in this fast paced-
world, we do not have the chance
to converse just for the heck of it.
We talk about schoolwork, we talk
about work-
work, and we
talk about our
various prob-

TRAIN or THOUGHT
TRAN KIM ‘05

Virginia to New York if you had a
very fast horse and a very small
load. Life was very slow-paced, the
exact opposite of our lives today.
But in those days, people knew the
meaning and value of quality time
spent with family and ﬁiends. They

knew the value of a good conver-“V

sation over tea and cookies. The
only time I have the chance to sit
down and just talk about anything
and everything is when I go home
and have nothing to do. It is then
that I will meet up with my best
friend for a cup of coffee at Barnes
and Noble and
riﬂe through fash-
ion magazines
and catch up on

lerns and dilem— everything in our
mas. There’s lives. But whenl
alsoaproblern withtoomuch small- enter the city limits of Lexington,

talk, one that I must admit I engage
in much too often. It can also be
called stop-and-go talk. You stop
for a second, say hello, and then
say goodbye. It usually lasts
about 10 seconds but on good
days might even last as much as
one minute!

Our society has advanced
so much technologically and our
lives have been made easier than
those who lived decades before us,
but are they really better? In those
days, it took a week to travel from

all communications are cutoff.
You have the same excuses
as I do, I’m sure. There’s so much
work to do, so little time to do it,
and so much pressure to get it
done. But are we losing ourselves
in our struggle for achievement?
That “A” is important and could
possibly make or break you.
Though you may get the A and
make it, you may have broken your-
self in the process. Is it better to
makeitbutbebrokenornottomake
it and be in one piece? If you had

   

t

  Home f0rSa

704 N. MAIN ST., EXINGTON, A

Built circa 1880 on Institute Hill, now completely restored with
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors.

4 Bedrooms, 1 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new kitchen plus a
large utility/office Room. Large third floor storage room and an attached

outside storage area. '

Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls on terraced
landscaping.

Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping.
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly.
Asking $229,000.

(540) 464-3738
or

(540)460-4718

.
§

   
 

to make a choice, I hope you would
choose the latter. Our accomplish-
ments are important but it’s impor-
tant to keep in mind that life is
much more than what we do.
What's most important is who we
are with. _At the end of the day,
the PhD merely fills’ up empty
spaces on our walls, but will it fill
up the empty spaces in our
hearts?

I am not implying that we
must choose between a way of life
ﬁlled only by work and a way of
life dominated by only leisure be-
cause doing one or the either is no
solution either. Rather, we must
find a balance and live in the middle
between these two lives. We
should not neglect our academic
or career health, but we should also
be careful to not neglect our men-
tal and spiritual health.

So my advice to everyone
is to take some time aside for
yourself and treat yourself to a
nice conversation with someone
you enjoy talking to. Take some
time to call up a friend you nor-
mally only talk with through in-
stant messaging and have a vo-
cal conversation. Take some
time to write a friend that you
can’t call. Indeed, just take some
time to explore the wonder of a
good conversation.

House for Rent
In The Country

Lease goes from June 15, 2004 to
June 15, 2005

1.5 miles on Rt. 60 East

“Jaws”

Daytime Phone: 540-463-5383
Nighttime Phone: 540-463-5654

rrrorro oourmsv or  1
HARMLESS. Is this sentiment really unconstitutional?

my Flag, and to the Republic for which it stands,

one nation, indivisible, with equality, liberty and ’

justice for all.” Then you have a number of pro-
life advocates that recite “‘I pledge allegiance to
the Flag of the United States of America and to
the Republic for which it stands, one nation under
God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all,
born and unborn.” No one is preventing differ-
ently-minded students from reciting an alternate
pledge. '

So honestly, I really don’t think there’s a
case here. I think Newdow is wasting the
Court’s valuable time, and inciting needless
public debate on what is essentially a non—is-
sue. There are more important issues than this
to address in today’s America.

Letter to the editor

Single sanction needs to go

Dear Editor,

Having read Tippins Stone’s letter of last
week, I think I speakmfor a good many W&L
studentswhen I say'this: Ms. Stone, you are
naive. Considering the way that the Honor
System is sold to freshmen at our school, your
naiveté is completely understandable. I, too,
sat in Lee Chapel as a freshman and felt a
kind of satisfying self-righteousness upon
hearing slogans like “Honor isn’t measured
in degrees.”

But, like many upperclassmen, I later came
to see that those slogans are absolutely non-
sensical. So give it some time is my advice.

‘Perhaps if you are ever forced to observe qui-

etly while this Honor System ruins the lives
of good people for silly reasons, you’ll want
to change your tune. Because Lord knows it
happens, and the wonder is that we still allow
it to. Sure, honor defined as not lying, not
cheating, and not stealing is certainly some-
thing worth striving for. But the kind of Honor
that we worship at W&L is phony and de-
structive. It fails to admit what seems to me
like a pretty obvious fact of human nature:
everybody lies. And those people who say
that they’ve never lied are lying.

It’s neat that we lie so little at this school,
and that lying about important matters (like
academics) is nonexistent. But let’s stop al-
lowing the EC to kick out our classmates for
telling white lies. Letting them consider the
context of honor violations when determin-
ing a punishment will not demean our tradi-
tion or the name of our Holy Father Robert E.
Lee. A “single sanction” is pointless, and we
should be reasonable enough to admit this.

Sincerely, ‘
Dustin Jacobson ‘O5

4 Bedrooms
2 Baths

 

X

 

E

  

WASHINGTON AND

LING-TUM

LEE UNIVERSITY

I.  _..'?‘?'_’_”j'9 Bi'T"iG
Monday,lvIarch29,2004

Student Activities Organization under investigation

BY Cro THELMAN
HENEEDSTOFINDHISOWNBED

Continuing its “crackdown on hazing”
policy, the Student Activities Organization
(SAO) is currently under investigation for its
“new member education” program. A fresh-
man came forward to Dean Watkins last week
revealing precise and disturbing accusations
of hazing.

While the administration is not talking
about the allegations, rumors of the SAO’s
activities have spread around campus. Local

residents were upset when members of the I

SAO held up East Lex with Nerf guns in an
amazing, but true, story.

Potential new members were seen lined up
behind the Science Center where unidentifiable
frozen food was thrown at them. Upperclass-
men identified the chunks as chicken cordon
bleu from the old dining hall.

Potential new members allegedly were also
forced to play in a Halo tournament running all
night causing sleep deprivation.

“I knew immediately that SAO was haz-
ing,” said Professor Uribe Arafranofsky. “Stu-

Hook-ups banned
in campus bui .dings

    

PHOTO COURTBY OF ~ #57
HE WEARS A GRIN FROM EAR TO FAR. In light of the
new campus debauchery ban, President Burish can
keep on smiling. He’s a married man.

BY RENE LOUAPRE
HEAD or RISK MANAGHVEENT

In a move described as “momentous and ex-
hilarating,” W&L administrators in conjunction
with SAC, the Student Health Center, and L.I.F.E.
announced yesterday that non-married couples will
be prohibited from engaging in any inappropriate
sexual relations. Married law students, President
and Mrs. Burish, and Dean Watkins will be the
only people allowed to “hook-up” in campus build-
ings. Thus ends Lucius Beebe’s dream of joining
the Colonnade Club with Tim Smith.

“Any touching between the neck and the knees
poses a serious health risk for students of W&L. My
job is to find these risks and eliminate them. Just look
what I have accomplished with hard alcohol, beer,
parties, and smoldng,” said Dr. Jane Horton.

The administration also announced that Dr.
J .D. Futch III, in his new role as Dean of Religious
Life, will be responsible for doling out punish-
ments. Dr. Futch was chosen over Burr Datz be-
cause Dr. Burish had heard that Futch taught a
class on the papacy.

Dr. Burish added, “Any man who teaches a class
on the papacy must be knowledgeable in the ways of
proper decorum for unmarried couples. I mean, popes
aren’t even allowed to have intercourse.”

Dr. Futch live via satellite said he was
shocked by his new duties and role he must fulfill.
“I have never considered pre-marital sex to be of
any harm to those involved in it. Why Pope
Alexander VI used to have naked courtesans pick
up chestnuts off the ﬂoor with their. . . .” The
transmission then abruptly ended.

The Administration admitted that at ﬁrst they
didn’t want to approve the measure but was forced
to after repeated complaints from people in the Dorms.

A small group of protestors led by Will
Howorth, Thomas Worthy, and the entire Pi Kappa
Phi fraternity denounced the decision. “What is
next no more making out on the dance ﬂoor? I
mean come on this isn’t a convent, it is COLLEGE,”
said Whit Whitﬁeld before ripping off his shirt,
calling for his dog, and downing a Busch heavy.

“You meantotellrneIcan’tgobacktothedonns
and chase some tail? Why that is ludicrous, I mean what
the hell? Do you want me to hook up outside. Ibet the
school would be real happy if I got caught with a girl
hooking up in the overly used amphitheatre. I have a
political career to wony about,” added Thomas Worthy.

Overall, the move has been praisedby theAdnrin—
istration as a great step in ﬁnally dealing with the pesky,
fraternity problem

dents have been falling asleep in my exciting,
exciting class.”

Witnesses claim to have seen freshmen
from the organization having a water balloon fight
on the second ﬂoor of Leybum Library. “They
deserve to be kicked off campus,” said Reference
Librarian Dick Grefe. “Our government docu-
ments are ruined!” - ,

Independents not attached to the SAO
fear that their reputations will be ruined as well.

“There’s no (expletive) way that we’re get-
ting kicked off this (expletive) campus,” said
SAO President James McKay. Many students
are rejoicing in the recent events surrounding
the demise of SAO.

“First they took over Campus Notices, now
they invade our beloved Commons day and
night,” said Fratty McFratterson.

“Where in the hell am I going to go get
drunk now?” said Sratty Sue Simpleton.

This stunning announcement comes
merely six weeks after the EC officially recog-
nized W&L’s newest organization.

“Our lag time is getting better with every
passing year,” chortled Arafranofsky before break-
ing into an extended bout of hysterial laughter.

CAUGH1‘ ON CAMERA! The newly-formed SAO has lasted less than a year. The

W&L to declare War on VMI

 MARINOSI/‘Nae Blm -tum Pbzi

Greek system is certainly med.

 
   

BY ARHAS RAMRUY
SENIOR MILITARY ANALYST

In a stunning armouncement

_ this morning, Washington and Lee

University declared war on neigh-
bor Virginia Military Institute. In
his news release, President Torn
Burish decried the “unforgivable af-
front against a time-honored rela-
tionship” between the universities.

No statement has been given
as to the exact nature of the insult
against the University. However, a
source in the ofﬁce of the dean of

students, who would comment only.

if promised anonymity, said that an
incident at a fraternity house sparked
the conﬂict. The fraternity in ques-
tion has not been named, but the
source did say that the incident in-
volved three cadets, two fraternity
seniors, and a broken lacrosse stick.

Mike Young, Director of Secu-
rity, is pleased at the news. “I tried to
convince John [Elrod] to take this
step for years,” Young said. “But
[former Dean of Students David]
Howison kept whining about ‘main-
taining alumni relations’ or ‘unnec-
essary casualties’——it was always
something with him. I’m so glad that
our current president is able to see
reason.”

Young will be leading the ef-
fort to recruit and train Washington
& Lee’s army, which will be arranged
into companies based on the results
of the IM basketball tournament.

Professors in several depart-
ments have questioned the
college’s readiness to go into
battle. They point out that the stu-
dent body, which will be doing the
lion’s share of the fighting, has
neither training nor equipment.

Happily, Washington and Lee’s
armed forces have obtained en-
dorsements from North Face and
POLO by Ralph Lauren. All recruits
will be outfitted with three pastel
polo shirts, two pairs of relaxed ﬁt
khakis, and a ﬂeece for inclement
weather.. Promotional shotglasses
and T-shirts will be available for
nonparticipants.

When asked for comment,
Dean of Students Dawn Watkins de-
nied the possibility of a disadvan-
tage against the military academy,
which has a thriving ROTC program.
“Sure, the ROTC cadets are trained
to_ be professional soldiers,”
Watkins admitted. “But will they
have the fabulous fashions of our
W&L waniors, to say nothing of the
latest spring colors? I think not.”

“Besides, here at the Univer-
sity we have a secret military force

over our own, which we’ve main-
tained since the days of Lee against
this sort of emergency. Naturally,
the force has had to drill late at night
to avoid detection,” said Watkins.
“Several students have of course
seen them, and rumors have circu-
lated around campus. You might
know them as the Cadavers.”
Tentative plans to name the
army “The Generals” were
scrapped in the face of logistical
difficulties. “No matter what Baner
says, not everyone can be a gen-
eral in a military unit,” said Young.
Recruitment booths will be
set up all week in the Commons
and in front of Leyburn Library.
The war’s first battle is
scheduled for Saturday on VMI’s
parade ground. In case of rain, the
combat will be moved to
Duchoissois Tennis Center.

BY PR1NcEss GERTRUDE
BALLER EXTRAORDINAIRE

Beirut is coming. No,
not the capital of Lebanon;
the timeless college fraternity
tradition is invading college
athletics. Following an an-
nouncement in Indianapolis
by NCAA Commissioner
Myles “McFrat” Brand,
Beirut will be an ofﬁcial1y—sanc—
tioned NCAA sport effective
the 2004-2005 academic year.

Brand’s announce-
ment sparked much contro-
versy not only around the
athletic world but outside
of it as well. College foot-
ball coach Bobby Bowden
stated that “endorsing
drinking games under-
mines the credibility of
other legitimate college
athletes.” Bowden de-
clined to comment on the
alleged drug problems of

BY KRAZY CALEY
SAN DIEGO IMPORT

Sophomore Janey Everygirl thought she knew
whattoexpectfromherW1nterTerrncourse with Prof.
Eduardo Velasquez. But, like many other students in
this year’s edition of Politics 265, she received a rude
awakening during Velasquez’s introductory lecture
and class outline.

“Plato’s Republic, Aristotle’s Politics,” said
Everygirl, reading through the class syllabus’ reading
list “Whatthecrap?”Iaskedwlu1tshewasexpectirIg
toreadoverthecourse ofthetenn “I don’tknow,I
ﬁguredit’dbethe same old. This is Classical Political
Philosophy, so I guess he would usually assign an

” OscarW1ldeplay,someChadesBaudelairepoetry,liner
notes fromaMetallicaaIbum, andmaybethenutrition
facts from a box of T1c—Tacs or something. The com-
mon theme would be ‘redernption,”’ said Everygirl.
Herreference wasto afamous class sessionlastyear,

his star football players.

Reverend Jerry Falwell warned
that “allowing teenagers under 21 to
willfully break the law should appeal
to our moral consciousness.”

more uimzsv or cup.
BIG TYMERS. The addition of Beirut as an NCAA-sanctioned sport will pit the Generals
against D—1 powerhouses such as the University of California.

which did in fact deal with the subject of redemption and
T1c—Tacs. “He noted that the Tic—Tacs in question were
orange, a color associated with impetuousness and hot
tempers, but that they were without any fat, sodium, pro-
tein, or sugars, indwd, the Tic-Tacs lacked any sort of
carbohydrates whatever. The T1c—Tacs were vessels of
hollow rage, unable to act on their strong feelings because
of their lack of any nutritional value,” said Everygirl.

Reading assignments weren’t the only thing stu-
dents were shockedabout “’Ihewayheranclassthisyear
was allOl"diﬂ°erent,” saidTor Coolguy, a senior. “He’d just
gave alecture and tookafew questions. At no point didhe
play music videos,referenceHan'yPotter,ormakeusrepre—
sent the concept oflove using only a piece of construction
paper, scissors, and a cylinder of

“Look at  said a visibily disturbed Coolguy,
holding the syllabus in his shaking hand “it says— ‘The
best way to succeed is to take copious notes. Also note
that the number one indicator of success in my class is
effort As long as you try your best, you’1l more than likely

College fratlords responded oth-
erwise. “It’s about time that the ad-
ministration took notice of our true
talents- the one outside of the class-
room- drinking,” remarked W&L

Velasquez teaches regular class, declared insane

Beirut to enter sacrosanct realm of NCAA athletics

fratlord Caley Anderson.
“There’s a reason why Wash-
ington and Lee is the number
5 party school in the
Princeton Review.” Dean
Watkins declined to comment
on the recent development.

Much to the chagrin of
lightweight Division I sports en-
thusiasts, Beirut will transcend di-
vision boundaries.

“We liberal arts colleges
have a right to stand up and
claim our athletic dignity. Our
football teams may suck, but
hey, ‘we sink ‘em, you drink
‘em”’ Anderson continued.

Beirut was popularized in
the 1950s when it was known
as beer pong and was dis-
tantly related to ping pong. In
‘ its current form today, it in-
volves two teams of two
people attempting to sink a
ping pong ball into a triangu-
lar arrangement of Solo cups
laden with warm Natty Light.

 

get an A. If you still feel a lack of conﬁdence, feel free to
apply to take this course pass/fail, and I’ll be happy to sign
oif on it’” Coolguy went on to note that the syllabus was
printed on only one side of a single page of paper, and
contained no discourse on the nature of learning.

Student concerns about Velasquez have led to his
temporary committment to a mental institution. “VVIthout
Professor Velasquez’s efforts, who will teach our students
the non-intuitive side of politics?” asked President Burish
in a recent press conference. “Who.wi1l show them that
thewalls ofacademictraditioncanbeaprisontolimittheir
understanding? And more importantly, who will show
themthe wisdom inherentin ‘The SecretofNIMH?”’

“I really like Professor Velasquez better the other
way,” said a student who is certainly not the author of this
article. “He really made you work and think about what
politics really is. And, you know, he was probably going to
give me an A because he’s such an awesome guy.” The
student then went on to ‘reiterate that he was most deﬁ-
nitely not Phi Editor Caley Anderson

 

  

PAGE 4

 

‘:1.
2?
w

 

MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2004

BAHA Boy goes from mainstream to uber-preppie
Shocking turn of events: Phi Delta Theta initiates first-ever public school graduate

BY THE DIVERSITY DNA
TSAR or THE MIDWEST

Public school? Who goes to public
school? That’s a question that faces fresh-
man George Felton Jefferson Bradford Albert
Henry Anderson XII, every day as he walks
the beloved columns of Washington and Lee.
Known simply as Baha to most people, he
explains, “When you’re the twelfth the names
have all been used already. My parents com-
bined some of my initials—Bradford Albert
Henry Anderson— to come up with my name,
much the same way people might call a third
son Tripp.” His public school image is some-
thing Baha faces valiantly and strives to over-
come.

“It’s quite a problem,” Baha bemoans.
“Rush was quite difficult. The minute anyone
found out that I went to public school, well, they-
looked at me differently.” He tried very hard to
conquer his public school baggage and did re-
ceive a bid from Phi Delta Theta earlier this win-
ter. “I mean it could have been worse. I could
have been from the north—-—I mean god forbid
what if I was from some horrid place like Phila-
delphia. Phi Delt would have never given me an-
other look,” Baha explains. Thankfully though,
Baha hails from the great city of Atlanta, Geor-
gia.

Baha has four older brothers, all of whom
his father sent to boarding or prep schools across
the south. “My brothers went to Episcopal and
Woodberry Forest, Westminister, and McCallie.
Any of them could have come here and no one
would have given them a second look. My dad
decided that he wanted me to have a grounding
in reality though, so he sent me to public school.
He thought I should be able to work with com-
moners.”

“High school was very hard for me. I
had to overcome hurdles at every turn. I
found that I constantly had to remind myself
that this is not how the real world was. I mean

rHo'ro OOURTESY or polawm

VISIONS» OF THE PREPPIE HANDBOOK. Class of 2007 member George Felton Jefferson Bradford Albert
Henry Anderson XII, discusses the angst of finding one’s place  Washington and Lee Greek life.

girls in Tommy Hilfiger in the heights of
spring? Don’t they know that they should
be wearing Lilly? And don’t even get me
started on the boys. I don’t think a one of
them had ever heard of Brooks Brothers,

Patagonia or North Face. Occasionally I
would see Polo, but they had the impression
that these were dress shirts and that the col-
lars were meant to be wore down!” Baha re-
members. “It was a constant battle—me ver-

 

sus them. I held strong though, "knowing
that someday, somehow, I would return to
the real world and there, there I would be
right. I would enter a world where kids knew
what I meant when I said that sunglasses
should be on Croakies, flip flops should be
either Reefs or Rainbows, and shorts
should be either plaid or seersucker,” Baha
explains.

‘fWhen I came to W&L I was delighted
to finally be back among people who under-
stood me. I mean at home in Atlanta, I could
always go visit the kids at Westminster or at
Lovett, but it wasn’t the same. I still had to
attend class every day at public school. On
Move-in Day I was determined to make a good
impression. The day before, I went off roading
in my Tahoe, just to get that great spray of dirt
across the side,” Baha explains. He also ar-
rived fully prepared for W&L life—including
the all important frat cup. “My older brothers
understood that I had a great challenge to over-
come and they prepared me for it. I arrived fully
stocked in frat cups and carried one on the
Hill every day during the fall.”

Public school can be hard for anyone to
overcome, but Baha seems to be adjusting to life
at W&L quite well. To his fellow students he
issues this challenge: “Never judge a book by
its cover. When you hear a kid is from public
school, don’t just blow him off—look deeper. If
you see the Rainbows, the seersuckers, and a
wonderfully unkempt mane, stop and think, and
realize that this kid might not be the typical pub-
lic school kid. Remember that all public school
kids are different, and while yes, for the major-
ity, they might not be someone you wish to as-
sociate with, every once in a while you happen
upon a good one. Furthermore, I’d like to. thank
my brothers at Phi Delt for looking past my pub-
lic school background and for taking the time to
give me a chance. I mean, thank god I don’t have
to overcome something like being from Philadel-
phia. I just have to remember, it could be worse.”

Downed Kirwan kidnapped, sequestered as sweatshop slave

BY C TO THE LMAN tennis shoes.

This surpris-

Julius, managing editor of the

 

HE NEEDS HIS OWN BED, AGAIN

The government an-
nounced the capture of a 2004
Washington and Lee graduate
in a statement released by the
United States Navy yester-
day.

Brett Kirwan, 23, and
three others were captured by
Chinese troops when their
Navy helicopter was shot
down over western China last
week. The other three men
were rescued shortly after the
crash. Kirwan, however, was
not so fortunate.

The statement prepared
by the Secretary of the Navy
released yesterday said that
Kirwan was rumored to be en-
slaved in a sweatshop making

ing twist comes three years
after Kirwan wrote an article
entitled “Sweatshops make
cents” in the Ring-tum Phi
condoning the practices of
sweatshops.

“Sweatshops aren’t
nearly as bad as they’re made
out to be. In fact, sweat-
shops, and the opportunity
they provide, are an important
step in a nation’s develop-
ment,” said Kirwan in his ar-
ticle. “Sweatshops were a
part of America’s journey to
prosperity.”

The atmosphere on
campus is one of shock.
Campus reaction to Kirwan’s
capture is mixed. “I never got
the chance to tell Brett how
much I loved him,” said Erin

Phi in a shocking revelation.

“Brett is finally getting
what he deserves,” said Jer-
emy Mims, former roommate
of Kirwan and current Editor
in Chief of Guise magazine.
“Now he gets to see how the
little children of China suffer
for his pro-Republican crass
commercialism agenda!” “I
just can’t understand. Ijust
can’t. . .” said Andrew Latimer,
Kirwan’s fraternity little
brother and confidant.

President Bush, six
months after winning reelec-
tion in a landslide, said in a
press conference yesterday
that the country will do ev-
erything it can to locate
Kirwan and bring him home as
soon as possible.

WHAT ABOUT QUICKHITS? Somewhere Brett Kirwan endures menial sweatshop Work. If only he could be
back in hex demonstrating his illustrious wit and wisdom.

 

An ode to the C-Sc/Jool  

BY THE UNCLOTHED MUSE
ECONOMICS GURU

It sets us apart from the other top 25 liberal arts colleges in
the nation. It is home to the concentrations of roughly one—third of
undergraduate students. And it is the most Edenic building on
campus. That’s right, I’m talkin’ about the C-school.

For all my criticisms and complaints about the students in par-
ticular here at W&L, I know there is always one place I can go to enjoy
the splendors of human interaction, or the peacefulness of quiet study.
Always pleasant. Never inconsiderate. Ahhh, the c—school.

The inhabitants of other academic buildings on campus can-
not even hold a candle to the utopian ideals upheld by those fortu-
nate enough to be members of the elite country club that consists
of C—school majors. I challenge you to search the science building
for a greater abundance of knowledge; to search DuPont for a more
cultured and intriguing group of people; you can even search Payne
for more eloquent, intelligible speakers and writers. You will not
find any. The C-school represents the pinnacle of W&L’s educa-
tional system, and there is no greater building or grouping of ma-
jors.

Where else on campus do students write grammatically per-
fect essays? Where else do students vocally participate in class in
such intelligent and articulate manners so as to stimulate the most
thought-provoking, educational discussions possible? Nowhere.

And it is not merely this general intelligence that character-
izes the mien of the beloved Commerce building. It is the students
themselves. Such a diverse, yet homogenously polite and courte-
ous, group of people exists no where else. It is an atmosphere still
governed by conservative gentlemanly and gentlewomanly behav-
ior.

The thought of bringing a cell phone, or other modern day
sources or rudeness, to class or even to a study session in the
computer lab is unheard of, let alone someone allowing their cell
phone to ring loudly and incessantly while others are trying dili-
gently to get their work done. And, of course, people never have
loud private conversations on their cell phones in either the com-

puter lab or the reading room, since that would be excessively impo-
lite and cause a disruption to others. Such behaviors are simply not
to be found in the C—school.

Also, despite the fact that everyone has a constant ﬂow of
papers to write or computer projects to work on, no one ever self-
ishly hogs the computers. Certainly, egocentric behavior such as
leaving stacks of books on the desks and preventing others from
using the computers even when you’re not there working, or play-
ing mindless computer games when the lab is full, forcing others to
stand and wait to get their real work done is plainly not a problem or
a concern there, since it does not happen.

As far as classroom etiquette goes, students in other majors
would do well to follow the example set by the kind and diligent c-
schoolers. One would be hard-pressed to find students asleep in
these classes! The mentally stimulating conversations, in addition to
the shear enjoyment of one another’s company keeps these students
awake and enthused throughout the school day, especially during an
8a.m. Intermediate Accounting, or an 8a.m. Tax class.

And you thought W&L didn’t offer a class on how to have fun..

Well, you thought wrong. Just ask these studious pupils. Always
well prepared, wide awake, and consistently presentable, C—school
students are in-a class by themselves (literally, for most of the classes
contain the same mix of students over and over again with very few
new faces). . ‘

While it may be too late for juniors and seniors, freshmen and
sophomores may want to reconsider their choice of majors. If you
have not already come over to the darkside...er...I mean C-
school...then perhaps you need to re—evaluate what it is you want
out of your W&L experience. With what sorts of people do you
want to associate? The experience of higher education is invalu-
able, and it would be shameful to suffer through this experience
inefficiently, getting less than the maximum benefit out of it. Many
of your fellow students spend the majority of their academic time in
this pseudo—paradise...where do you do your homework?

UnsungGeneral

BY PRINCESS GERTRUDE
BALLER EXTRAORDINAIRE

In a ceremony last week in Lee Chapel, the
Celebrating Student Success committee named Brian
Castleberry ’O4 this year’s Unsung General.

Castleberry is the current president of the In-
terfraternity Council (IFC) and has worked valiantly
to bring about the demise of the University’s Greek
System.

“Brian is the epitome of a Washington and
Lee student,” said Dean of Students Dawn Watkins.
“Without his efforts, we may not have had seven
extra fraternity houses at our disposal for next year.”

The IFC went from frat-friend to f1at—ﬁend this
year, thanks to new regulations that virtually elimi-
nated all hazing, ehem, new member education pro-
grams during Winter Term.

An incensed Thomas Worthy could hardly
contain himself following the ceremony. “This is
an outrage. What is wrong with feeding your
pledges crazy consumable concoctions and forc-
ing them to make 2a.m. runs to Roanoke? I fail to
see the harm in that.”

Castleberry overheard Worthy’s comments
and responded as follows, “Mr. Worthy, the
proper phrase is ‘new members,’. not the ‘p-word.’
We at Washington and Lee do not use such lan-
guage-”

Security officers Baner and Rexrode were
forced to escort Worthy away from Lee Chapel. It
is uncertain whether he will remain on next year’s
Executive Committee.-

 

 

.

ASSITANFSPORTSEDITOR
hylaiid;l3@Wluedu

MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2004

Ti-ERN3-TUMPHT

PORTS

Womens’ tennis rolls 19-1

BY JANE BEALL
. STAFF WRITER

‘This past Wednesday marked the beginning
of the Fab Five Tournament, one of the highlights
of the Washington and Lee’s women’s tennis sea-
son. W&L invites and hosts the nation’s top teams
to compete in the week-long tournament. This year’s
participating teams include top—ranked Emory, Wil-

L liams, Rhodes, University of the Redlands, DePauw,
- ' and UC Santa Cruz.

The Generals first faced the nineteenth ranked
Fighting Banana Slugs from Santa Cruz. The unde-
feated doubles team of Lindsay Hagerrnan and Ginny

. ‘ Wortham brought their opponents down 9-7, set-

ting the tone for the team’s 9-0 victory over the Slugs.

This win marked the 300th career win for head
coach Cinda Rankin, who took the Generals to the
national tournament ﬁnals last year. She’s led her
squad to thirteen ODAC championships and ten
straight NCAA D'—HI top eight ﬁnishes, earning the
conference coach of the year award ten times along
the way. “We’re all really excited for Cinda,”
Wortham said. “We’re proud we could be the team
to bring her the 300th win.”

Coach Cinda Rankin hits lucky number 300

Rankin’s teams extended her overall record
to 302-50 with the decisive 9-0 defeats of seventh-
ranked DePauw on Thursday and thirteenth-ranked
University of the Redlands on Saturday. All but
one General defeated their opponents in only two
sets, Freshman Kristen McC1ung fought back after
losing her first set to Claire Ellis 4-6, winning the
next two 6-1, 6-2. The rest of the Generals handled

the Tigers easily, each taking only two sets to take .

down DePauw.

Saturday’s match brought another shut-out
against the Redlands Bulldogs. Freshman Katie
Kingsbury, playing in the number sixth slot, won a
nail-biter against Tania Talaid, taking the victory in
a tiebreaker, 6-3, 3-6, (10-4). Freshman Amanda
Haines observed that, “A lot of teams are out to
beat us, but our doubles teams have succeeded in
creating the momentum needed for singles, and
everyone has done a great job of battling and clos-
ing out the matches.”

The Generals have a tough schedule this
week, hosting tenth-ranked Rhodes on Sunday and
eightli-ranked Williams Tuesday at 3:30 to conclude

WINNER. The womens’ tennis team continues to win.

the Fab Five tournament.

Mens’ lax starts ODAC season on a winning note

‘C)NTl-IEA'I'I‘ACK. AttackmanMattFinkgoesforthe goal.

(‘Finding itself down in tough stretch,  

BY CAMERON GARNER
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Men’s lacrosse proved
their worth and silenced some
doubts generated by their mod-
est 4-3 record to date, as they ral-
lied from a 3 goal deﬁcit late in
the game to beat #12 Lynchburg
yesterday.

In their first ODAC test, the
Generals responded by scoring
the final 5 goals in a garnethat, in
all of junior goalie Pat Casey illus-
trious lax career here and at high
school lacrosse “power”
Georgetown Prep, “was the great-
est game I’ve ever been a part 0 

Senior midfielder Dustin
Martin’s unassisted score a mere
28 seconds into the second half
gave the Generals a 6-4 lead, but
the Hornets responded with a 5-
goal spurt that put them ahead 9-
6. Junior attackman Jack “don’t
quote me anymore” Murray ig-

nited the General’s garne-winning
run with an unassisted score with
9:07 left in the fourth.

Less than a minute later,
Senior attack Matt Fink scored —
one of his four goals on the day —
off a feed from senior niiddie Mark
McLewee. McLewee would tie
the game at 9 off a feed from jun-
ior attack Gavin Molinelli with 5: 16
remaining.

Another minute later,
Fink had netted the game—win-
ning goal. But the Generals
weren’t done scoring...not by
a long shot.

Sophomore midfielder and
professional hair model Perrin “
soul glow” Monroe decided one
goal was simply not enough of a
lead. The ‘fro got the ball a mere
23 seconds after Fink’s tally, and
ripped a behind-the-back laser
from the restraining line to cap the
General’s scoring at 11.

The Generals dominated
every category: shots (38-22),

baseball team drops first ODAC game, 8-4

BY JOHN HYLAND
_ Ass1sTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L baseball team

had opened its ODAC season a
perfect 7-0 but last week faced
its toughest competition of the

; season playing three road games
‘against perennial ODAC power-

. houses, Bridgewater and Virginia

I ‘Wesleyan.

The Generals traveled to
‘Bridgewater on Wednesday.
While the Eagles had been only
mediocre in the early season with
an 11-11 record, they were still
{picked to finish 2nd in the ODAC
preseason poll. W&L got off to a

i quick start, with two first inning
J runs on senior Bryan Mulhem’s
; RBI single and sophomore first
baseman Taylor McConnell’s

 sacrifice ﬂy. The Generals main-

tained their lead heading into the
fourth but the Eagles rallied to
_score a combined seven runs in

the third, fourth and fifth innings
to take a comfortable 7-2 lead.
McConnell doubled home
Mulhem in the seventh and later
scored on an error but it was the
closest the Generals would get
and suffered an 8-4 loss.
Mulhem, W&L’s starting pitcher,
did his best to help his own cause
at the plate, going 2 for 5 with
two runs and an RBI but it was
not enough as he surrendered six
runs in 5 2/3 innings to even his
record to 1-1 on the year. In the
loss, sophomore centerfielder
Dave MacKenzie and junior
catcher Zach Bausch each re-
corded three hits.

W&L traveled to Virginia
Beach on Saturday to face Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, the first place
team in the ODAC. The team ar-
rived home too late for many of
the statistics to be available but
the Generals split the double-

Student Discounts

header. W&L dropped the
opener 9-5 with staff ace Peter
Dean suffering his first loss of
the season to drop his record to
6-1 on the year. The Generals
came back in the second game,
however, to defeat the Marlins 8-
6. Senior righthander, Dan Kagey,
battled back from some early in-
ning struggles to continue his
impressive season and keep his
record a perfect 5-0 on the year.
Freshman third baseman Clayton
Edwards was the hero offen-
sively for the Generals recording
eight RBIs in the two games. The
Generals face another tough
week ahead of them. They play
Bridgewater again on Wednes-
day at home and then travel to
Lynchburg for a doubleheader on
Saturday. The Hornets have
emerged as on of the ODAC’s top
clubs this season, boasting an im-
pressive 16-4 record.

groundballs (36-24) and
faceoffs (13-11). Junior
midfielders Adam Chesbrough
and Mike Barracco gave the
team the possessions that they
needed out of the face—offs, go-
ing 6-for-8 at the end of the
game against a very good face-
off man, and putting their team
in position to pull off the come-
from—behind victory.

In a tight game, the face-
offs were the key. Senior goalie
Ansel Sanders made some huge
stops in the late stages of the
game to support the run.

Fink paced the Generals
with 4 goals, McLewee had 2
goals and 2 assists, Molinelli

notched 2 and 1, while Martin

had 1 and 1.

The Generals look to
keep momentum up as they
travel to Randolf-Macon on
Wednesday, a 4 pm contest,
and come home to face
Roanoke at 1:30 on Saturday.

URTESY PORTS RMATION

IT’s ON. Steven Chambers runs to a second place ﬁnish
in the 1500 meter run in the Bridgewater Invitational.

PAGE 5

37 goals propel

womens’ lax

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

Wednesday afternoon was a day of celebra-
tion for the Women’s Lacrosse team. The women
slaughtered Bridgewater with a ﬁnal victorious
score of 19-1. Sophomore Amanda Strickler claimed
two goal and two assists to lead the Generals.
Freshman Avery Lovejoy took the ball to the net
three times; senior Lee Wheeler and sophomore
Kate Lester each made one goal and one assist.

“Going in to the Bridgewater game we knew
that we were going to have to play ‘our game’ and
keep up intensity,” said freshman Aver Lovejoy of
the General’s extreme win. “Every game is an op-
poitunity to improve ourselves in many areas on
the field.”

Saturday’s competition, Catholic University,
provided a greater challenge to the women.

Though the Generals outscored the Cardi-
nals with a ﬁnal score of 18-7, the Generals lead by
a mere goal going in to half-time.

Senior Lee Wheeler pulled the Generals in to
a one point lead with 3:55 left on the clock before
half-time.

“It was close and that was expected,” said
sophomore Amanda Strickler. “Although Catholic
is not ranked, they are in a very tough conference
with at least 4 teams ranked in the top ten. The
most important thing we did at halftime was realize
that just because a team isn’t ranked doesn’t mean
that we can roll over them.”

The Generals came back to the ﬁeld ready to
cement the win, however, outscoring the Cardinals
by 10 points in the second half. Senior Kelly Taffe
lead the Generals with 5 goals and junior Kitt Murphy
followed closely behind with four goals and one
assist.

Senior Joanna Perini made nine saves at
the net.

“The win yesterday was huge,” said Taffe.
“It says a lot when a team can totally turn in on
after half time. Our defense had an incredible sec-
ond half and didn’t let in a single goal. Sara
Jurkowsky played exceptionally well and led the
defense to a shut-out in the second half.”

. The two victories helped the womengain
momentum going in to a tough week of competi-
tion. The Generals next face 6th ranked Williams.

“The two victories were two chances for us
to prove ourselves and continue playing as a unit,”
said Lovejoy. “They are proof that we can raise our
level of play every time we step on the ﬁeld.”

Track teams compete in invitational

W&L SPORTS
RELEASE

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
track teams were in action at the Bridgewater Invi-
tational on Saturday in Bridgewater, Va.

There were no team scores kept as only indi-
vidual efforts were tracked.

On the women’s side, freshman Sara
Behmerwohld (San Juan Capistrano, Calif./Dana
Hills) led the Generals with a second-place fmish in
the 400 meter hurdles (1:12.12) and a fourth-place
time of 17.75 in the 100 meter hurdles. Junior Emily
Barker (Clifton, Va./Mount Vernon) placed fourth
in the shot put (36’0.50”), junior Meredith Walker
(Travelers Rest, S.C./Christ Church Episcopal)
placed fifth in the 200 meter dash (28.17) and fresh-
man Huntley Rodes (Nashville, TennJHarpeth Hall)
placed fifth in the 400 meter dash (1 :05.8 1).

On the men’s side, junior Steve Chambers
(Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area) was W&L’s top fm-
isher, taking second place in the 1500 meter run
with a time of 4: 10.68. Junior Nathan Johnson (Lex-
ington, Va./Rockbridge County) took third posi-
tion in the 1500 meter run with a time of 4:11.00,
while sophomore Hugo Ledesma Diaz (Zapopan,
Mexico/Amer. School at Guadalajara) placed third
in the 400 meter hurdles with a time of 1:01.34.

Your ad could be here!

Contact phi-business@wlu.edu to place an ad!

ALL AUTO SERVICES
Brakes - Exhaust - Tune-up
A/C Services - Oil Change -

Engine & Transmission

Replacement/Rebuild
General Service & Repair
Car Wash In/Out & Detailing
U-Haul Truck & Trailer
Rentals

10% STUDENT

DISCO tJNT!!
federated

Blue Ridge Auto Center

1973 Magnolia Ave.
Buena Vista, VA 24416
(540)261-9377

OPEN
Mon-Fri. 8 - 5pm
Sat. 8 --Noon

iarns—3:00

TUESDAY MARCH 30

0 Baseball vs. Bn'dgewater—3 :00
- M Tennis vs. Roanoke, W111-

° WTennis vs. EMU--4:00
-WLacrosse vs. Williams—4:00i

This Week

WEDNESDAY MARCH 3 1

- M Lacrosse at Randolph-
Macon--4:00

Gr.c>aaa LAWRENCE RANGEL
Pru>.rD3.'AttxANoeR Memos

Fliklfﬁ

540-461-3447

309 N. min St.

Lexirigton, VA 24450

 

PAGE 6

THE

'tH£R1Nc-TUMPHI  

AST WORD

Mt.=oANMoRoAN

AR”lS&l.IPEEDll‘OR
morganmb@wlu.edu

MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2004

Spring’s approach causes old rivals to bury the hatchet
and Lexington to fall in love with itself all over again

Spring is in the air, and you know
what that means — that crafty little Cupid
is floating around, shooting his amorous
arrows into everything he sees. A wave
of love has taken hold of W&L, to a de-
gree never before seen. All over the place,
people are putting away their criticisms
and forgetting their rivalries, and replac-
ing them with kind words '

underbelly and expose the Greeks for the
social menace that we all know them to

.truly be.

2) Saks and Fox produce W&L’s first
Workout Video. The original Fitness Cen-
ter Odd Couple have de-
cided to workout their dif-

ferences for

and see what it’s like on “the other side.”
Now, spring term courses are available with
Prof Porter teaching “Money and Banking
of the Ottoman Empire,” and Prof Gold-
smith holding a seminar in “Macroeco-
nomic Theory—the Shakespearean Approach.”
Finally, the
faculty will
agree on the

and lots of hugs. It truly ABSQLUTFRATLORD the benefit of Spring Term
brings tears of joy to my ‘ the entire W&L question,
eyes, just like at the end of TIMSMITH 04 fitness commu- since this

Babe when that magnificent

pig gets a perfect score in the sheep dog
trials. What—can’t the Frat Lord be a little
emotional for once? (Ed.—no.)

Anyway, this cloud of love has
changed our campus forever, with bitter
rivals being transformed into close
friends. Here are just a few examples of
the wonderful metamorphosis that’s tak-
ing place in Lex Vegas:

1) Shipman and McQuigg have joined
forces with W&L Security. With their gin
bucketing days long behind them, Luke
and Zach have decided to put away their
fratty facade and join forces with their
long-time nemesis. Inspired by Rexrode’s
recent thwarting of dishonorable laptop
stealing outsiders, the duo have been
knighted by Mike Young into “junior se-
curity guard” status. With a job descrip-
tion reminiscent of Johnny Depp in 21
Jump Street, Shipman and McQuigg work
zealously to infiltrate the dark fraternity

nity. By pool-
ing their knowledge and re-
sources, the have released
the smash success video,
“Warner Center Workout,”
currently available at the
bookstore. In the video,
Saks gives weight—lifting
lessons, while Fox adds
helpful fitness fashion tips
for those who still can’t fig-
ure out what to wear while
working out. The video also feature cam-
eos by Chris Caramore as the Tae-Bo in-
structor and Joe Cutler as the protein
shake diet advisor.

3) C-School and Humanities Departments
announce faculty exchange program. In a
revolutionary new plan to save W&L
money and broaden our liberal arts educa-
tion, faculty members of Williams Com-
merce School and other departments on
campus have decided to switch buildings

 

new curricu-
lar approach
will foster
compromise
between the
“old guard,”
the “new
guard” and
the all those
in between.

PI-{UFO COURTESY OF HOMEPAGl'3.PARADlSE.NE'l‘.I-l'lML

4) W&L
fraternities announce new profit-shar-
ing plan. Realizing that we all share the
same fratty common bond, the IFC has
unveiled a plan in which all frat boys pay
dues to a single source, essentially com-
bining all fraternities into one. This
amazing development has resulted in
peace and harmony never before experi-
enced. Friendships which were thought
to be previously impossible are blossom-
ing across campus. Chesborough and
Fechtel have been seen sipping mint ju-

leps on the Colonnade. Kirwan and

Gazica are seen sharing a pitcher at the '

Palms. And the increasingly volatile situ-
ation between Turer and Bracewell is
solved over a game of thumb-wrestling.

5) The Phi and Trident combine to usurp
USA Today as the national Mc-Paper of
choice. Finally realizing that people at
the Phi are just too lazy and uncreative
to fall into a campus-paper-mudslinging
match, the Trident masters have extended
the olive branch to the Phi, which has
readily accepted. By combining the Phz"s
boredom and the Trident’s (ahem)
“unique student appeal,” the new Tri-Tum
Phi has formed a journalistic juggernaut,
featuring top notch news and sports re-
porting with witty, insightful'social com-
mentary from yours truly, and of course,
the Intellectuals themselves. Denbow is
even allowed on the back page again, as
he promises to never again write a col-
umn which mentions UK Wildcat basket-
ball.

As you can see, things are sugar
and spice here in Lexington. Except not
— April Fools, suckers. Things on cam-
pus are feistier than ever, with rising
temperature going along with rising tem-
pers. But (Huge Cliché Warning) can’t
we all just get along? This is a tough
time of year — spring term is almost within
our grasp, yet with pending exams, it still
seems so far away. Let’s all try to make
it there in one piece.

     

iph@wIu.edufv}

Q The Phiought to be investigated. for hazing
by sleep deprivation. A  ~ A. « -

Q When I was playing poker the other day, A

funniest thing happened. More more chips I had,
the more the girls started to like me. Weird. ,

Q No one cared when Jeb Brooks was edi-
tor in chief , and we care even less that he isn’t
any more. Do you not have anything better to
write about?

Q There should only be one paper at W&L. It
should be on—line, come out daily and be called
“The Campus Notice.”

Q No smoking in the freshman dorms? Isn't it
ironic that the campus has become so anti—tobacco
since Burish also become President of the Ameri-
can Cancer Society?

Q Did anyone else see that girl at the I—House
rave with the glowstick earrings? Where can I get
a pair?

Q Heuoubes: Amazing but true.

Q Hey EC, if you have a problem with the Tri-
dent, don’t go crying to the Phi about it.

Q [ I’m_ mad because  I do on a Saturday night
is disparage others who write funny things in the

Ring tum-Phi and Phi Kaps who are not a GDI like A

my coolself.

Q Silly freshman, it’s an honor system, not an

, honor. code. Know what you are trying to defend
W before you write to the Phi about it.

Q If  hate Spring Term, transfer to a school A

that has two 15 week terms instead of complain-
ing about something that so many students cher-
ish and that makes W&L the unique institution
that it is.

Q Whoever wrote last week’s Quick Hit about
the “two” fraternitites completing pledgeship is
completely wrong. Sigma Chi and Kappa Sig were
also able to legitimately stick it out without com-
plaining.

Q If there was a “Big Four” earlier this year,
there clearly isn’t one now. Can some srat girls
please write an updated article (or Quick Hit) de-
claring a new Big (Two/Three/Four)?

Q So who’s been ripping the Lexington Police
report out of The Rockbridge Weekly at the J-
School? DUI maybe?

Q Sam Wilmoth is the most sought-after bach-
elor on campus, not Tye Haeberle. I mean, have
you seen how many hot girls surround Sam in the
D—Hall? They’re on him like white on rice! Way to
go, Sam! '

Q The state of Missouri named a stretch of
highwayadopted by the Ku Klux Klan (K) the
“Rosa Parks Highway." ,

.  If the Iraq War was about oil, why is gas
nearly’ $2.00 a gallon? I swear, the next liberal that
whines the war was about oil is buying my next 8

tank of gas.

 The J—School sh‘ould"‘really cater to the

converative student body with Fox News on the
TVs instead of CNN.

Q Dining Services has gone mad with power.

Q Eternal vigilance is the price of . . . ooh, look!
A butterﬂy!

Q Today in Justice: Charles Manson was given
the death penalty and Lt. William Calley was given
life in prison for the My Lai massacre, both in 1971.

Q Have you seen “Gothika?” I don’t like Halle
Berry with hair. It creeps me out.

Q Chances are the French are responsible for
April Fool’s Day.

Q More: How about this for April Fools? April
1, 1789 marked the first day the US House of Repre-
sentatives had a quorum and began business by
electing Frederick Muhlenberg speaker.

Q When is Kelly Jo going to stop writing ar-
ticles about her friends?

Q Best of luck to all the students studying
abroad in Spain.

Q If you ever get    hope they
avoid your face, because It you’re cute.

Q "Aces!

~ Q,.. , ,Boys,’ Life,   damned magazine

that money can buy.

Qt Since when has it been possible to be fratty
and watch the Cartoon Network? You just can’t.

Q I happen to be the most amusing person that 3
I know, and I figured that you ought to be aware of ‘

that.

Q So, after correctly predicting 28 of the first
round games, Imight have one Final Four team, if
Duke wins. Whoo-hoo, March Madness is soo'o
much f11n! ‘

Q The gentlemen of Kappa Alpha Order sure ‘I

do know how to show the ladies a good time.

Q How inconvenient is The Jefferson’s new ‘

location? More parking, sure, but you can’t walk
there. Where am I going to get my corsages?

Q Bill is going to win “The Apprentice.” Or
maybe Troy, but deﬁnitely not Nick; he’s terrible.

Q E—mail your anonymous Quick Hits and tales ‘ .

of Spring Term debauchery to phi @wlu.edu.

FORALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING NEEDS:

University
  Cleaners

   

   

7 North Jefferson Street

L463—3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

Send your
engagement-
announcements
to the
phi@w|u.edu

 

  

 

I-800-68-4889 I www.ststnrvcl.tom

Celebrate Spring Time

Brides ~ Graduation
witha
Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris Q
(540)264-0063

Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements

13 Years Experience

Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day

Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

Tom James Company

Interviews?
Internship?
Special occasion?

Let us help you look and feel
your best! !

Custom and Ready Made Suits
and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all
accessories

Student Packages &
Gift Certiﬁcates Available

Fraternities -- Sororities

Clubs -- Student Groups
Earn $1,000—$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hourfundraising event. Our free
programs make fundraising easy with no risks.
Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with the
program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at

(888) 923-3238, or visit  

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or
with questions

540-8154557
Adam.WilliaIns@
tomjamesretail.com

 

