  

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Tuition increases have been common in recent
years at Washington and Lee. In the 2002-2003
academic year, tuition was $21,000 and, then it
jumped to $23,295 this year. “There are three
sources of revenue for the university,” said Steve
McAllister, Vice President for Finance, “endow-
ments, gifts and tuition.”

There is a policy that dictates endowments.
The policy shapes how much can be drawn to pre-
serve long term purchasing power. Gifts are rea-
sonably predictable. The armual fund stands be-
tween 4.4 and 4.5 million dollars. Washington and
Lee expects that amount to grow annually by 3 per-
cent.

Tuition has the ﬂexibility to meet the
university’s needs. “Expense on the university is

R WASHING

TONAND LEE UNIVERSITY

G-TUM

6 lire student voice ofWo5bington and Lee University since I 897
Tuition increases expected to be higher this year than in past

personnel driven,” explained McAllister, “Almost
70 percent of the budget goes to personnel.”

This is to preserve and improve the student/
faculty ratio. Also, the university wants to hire
the best possible faculty and retain them. Admin-
istrative salaries also have to increase because
huge inequities in administration are bad.

“We want a good all-around staff. Salaries
must increase every year,” commented McAllister.
Market conditions plus capital costs such as build-
ing upkeep and interest expense cause tuition to
increase. A

“Tuition is relative to the marketplace,” said
McAllister.

University ofﬁcials believe we are just as good
as the other top 24 schools in “US News & World
Report’s” rankings. They want to stay competi-
tive in that group. Washington and Lee has one
of the lowest tuition rates in the top 25.

McAllister said that tuition cuts have been
made at schools with enrollment pressures. They
reduce ﬁnancial aid and discount tuition. Wash-
ington and Lee does not have tuition pressures.
The marketplace has allowed tuition movement
upward, but eventually it will get too high. Wash-
ington and Lee has been increasing aid at a faster
rate than it has been raising tuition over the past
ten years.

There has been widespread speculation about
a 25% tuition hike that McCallister denies.

“Tuition has not been set for next year. I do
not see a 25 percent increase in tuition,” com-
mented McAllister. The University has never ex-
plored the option of raising tuition for everyone
to 25 percent.

Washington and Lee will increase faculty over
the next four to six years for faculty course load
reduction. Tuition increases also go to fund

PHI

VOL NJ DNo.\iHi
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

projects such as the Elrod University Commons,
signiﬁcant renovations to Reid Hall, and the Fit-
ness Center. Also beneﬁting from higher tuition
are more interdisciplinary programs and greater in-
ternational studies. The Campaign for the Rising
Generation can’t meet all these needs alone.

The tuition for next year will be set in February.
“It will not be a 25 percent increase, but it will not be
a two or three percent increase either,” stated
McAllister. It will be in line with the increases from
years past, but a little more accelerated. The Uni-
versity has been looking at tuition increases to con-
tinue to improve academic programs.

“One option was a large tuition increase only
for incoming freshmen, but I do not see that on the
table. There is not a desire to do that to freshmen,”
said McAllister. No options have gone beyond the
ﬁnance committee. How the calendar issue evolves
will probably affect the tuition matter.

Students can receive a

BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s
policy on alcohol states that a
“conviction of an alcohol or drug
related violation of the law” is
grounds for the application of the
three-strike system, A first strike
includes mandatory alcohol edu-
cation counseling, a signiﬁcant
ﬁne, and parental notiﬁcation. A
second strike receives manda-
tory education and counseling,
another fine, and the possibility
of a suspension. A third strike is
basis for dismissal from the uni-
versity.

Few, however, are aware of
the University Health Center’s
policies on alcohol use and
abuse. As dictated by their poli-
cies, seeking help from the Stu-
dent” Health Center for alcohol
related problems will not result
in parental or University notiﬁ-
cation. The Health Center oper-
ates as a medical facility and fol-
lows the guidelines of the Fam-

ily Educational Rights and Pri-
vacy Act. FERPA protects the
conﬁdentiality of student educa-
tion records unless the student
gives authorization to release
those records.

Dr. Jane Horton, the Direc-
tor of Health Services at the
Health Center said, “We are a
health care provider. It is impor-
tant that there is never negative
action with regards to treatment
because of conﬁdentiality con-
cerns. These records are not re-
ported anywhere except to the
doctor providing treatment.”

With regards to alcohol, the
Health Center uses the following
procedure: for a first time visit
with an alcohol related problem,
the student is given an AUDIT‘,
or Alcohol Use Disorders Identi-
ﬁcation Test. This test contains
ten questions regarding the his-
tory and behavior of the student’s
use of alcohol, including the fre-
quency of drinking, family his-
tory of alcoholism, and behavior
while under the inﬂuence. The

student also has a one—on—one
conversation with a doctor re-
garding the AUDIT. If the doctor
gets a sense that the student’s
behavior is abusive, the doctor
may recommend an online alco-
hol education course and coun-
seling. “For the doctor to recom-
mend counseling the first time a
student visits the Health Center
is very rare,” said Horton.

The second time a student
visits, however, the doctor will
strongly urge the student to take
an alcohol education course and
seek counseling. “This is an ex-
pectation of mine, that the stu-
dent take such action, not a re-
quirement. It is voluntary treat-
ment,” said Hoiton. If a student
refuses treatment and continues
in such self-destructive behav-
ior, the doctor may require the

student to meet'witl‘Ithe'Dearrt0 

discuss required administrative
withdrawal for non-academic rea-
sons. According to university
policy, if “there is a sufficient
showing that the student is en-

Lexington has low voter participation

Republican Ben Cline wins local House of Delegates seat with 65% of vote

BY ANNE BANKER
STAFF WRITER

Voters turned out Tues-
day, November 4“‘ for local
elections in both Rockbridge
County and the City of Lex-
ington.

In a number of races, the
results produced an interest-
ing mix of triumphant incum-
bents and prevailing new-
comers.

Republican Del. Ben Cline
secured his seat representing
the 24"‘ District in Virginia’s
House of Delegates for the
second consecutive year. He
defeated his opponent, Inde-
pendent Eric Sheffield, with
65% of the vote.

Dick Miimix, Secretary of
the City of Lexington Elec-
toral Board, remarked that this
race received the most local
attention.

“Ben Cline vs. Eric
Sheffield has sparked the
most interest since they are
both local folk,” he said.
Minnix also noted, however,
that last year’s race between
Democratic candidate Mimi
Elrod and Ben Cline was even
more contested.

“There was much more
interest with more than 50 per-
cent voter participation for
Lexington voters,” he said.
This year voter participation
in Lexington did not even
reach 30percent

Issues in the Cline/
Sheffield delegate race re-
volved around taxes,
healthcare, education, I-81
and enviromnental concerns.

Another successful Re-
publican incumbent was
Emmett Hanger, Jr. He retained

  

 

PlC1'URE ooURrEsY BEN CLNE

 Delegate Ben Cline at a campaign function earlier this
year. Cline Won a whopping 65% of the vote last Tuesday.

his seat representing the 24"‘
District in the Virginia Senate
by defeating Democratic chal-
lenger Steven Sisson. Hanger
won with over 66 percent of the
vote.

Hanger plans to continue
tax reform initiatives and in-
tends to advocate farmland
protection. In addition to a
number of other committee po-
sitions, the senator currently
serves on the committee for
Agriculture, Conservation, and
Natural Resources.

The Rockbridge County
Board of Supervisors had
five seats open for election
on Tuesday. Independent
Carroll Comstock ran unop-
posed in the South District,

,making only four of the

races contested.

Monty Fix defeated in-
cumbent Nancy Stagner for
the Walkers Creek District
in a surprising victory. New-
comers to the Board also include
Democrat Mack Smith who de-
feated Carl Newcomer in the
Buffalo District and

Independent Harvey Hotinger
who barely defeated opponent
Rusty Ford for the Kens Creek
seat. Incumbent Maynard
Reynolds held on to his posi-
tion in the Natural Bridge Dis-
trict by overcoming challenger
Lannie Ballard.

The same issues continued
to resurface in all four of the
races. The Buffalo and Kerrs
Creek districts both dealt with
the question of drawing new
businesses and industries to
Lexington.

Another popular topic was
the proposed extension of
sewer lines to the northern end
of the county. Tax reduction
also received attention from
candidates.

Minnix predicted that
voter participation for
Rockbridge County would be
higher than that of Lexington
due to some of the “hot con-
tests between the Board of Su-
pervisors.”

His predictions were right:
Rockbridge County had a voter
turnout of 43percent

gaging in behavior that presents
a real danger of substantial harm
to self or others,” a student may
be required to withdraw.

This policy is only used in
extraordinary circumstances,
such as ongoing substance
abuse or addiction. “This is
where the university would get
involved, because the Health
Center cannot meet the needs
of the student if the student is
refusing treatment for abuse.
For instance, if a student is
getting into fights brought on
by alcohol or is injuring oth-
ers, it oversteps university
policy. Extreme alcohol abuse
is an emergency situation and
requires the involvement of
other people,” said Horton.
Such action is “invoked
rarely.”

Dawn Watkins, Dean of
Students, said, “Any visit to
the Health Center for alcohol
related problems has nothing
to do with the university’s poli-
cies on substance abuse. We

cohol treatment without fear of sanctions

 

 

encourage students to seek
care for alcohol problems with-
out fear of administrative ac-
tion.” The only other time that
parentsmay be notified of an
alcohol iﬁcident is‘ if the stu-
dent is taken to the hospital be-
cause the student’s parents are
billed for treatment. “If this is
the case, it is best for the stu-
dent to contact their parents

JEB Baooxs / THE RING-TUM PH

prior to receiving the bill. We
encourage students to do this
and will also help make the
phone call with them. Or, we can
provide the proper channels to
have the student billed and not
their parents. Again, sending a
student to the emergency room
is a case where the Health Cen-
ter is not equipped to meet the
student’s needs,” said Horton.

UVa. professor speaks about African lit

 

BY KAELA HARMON
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s department of
Romance Languages invited literary expert
Kandioura Dramé to speak on campus last
week. Dramé is the head of the French de-
partment at the University of Virginia but
is also an expert in African Literature.

His talk last week titled “The Baobab
in the Grain: Ken Bugul for the sake of love”
focused on author Ken Bugul and the inﬂu-
ence her novel The Baobab in the Grain made
on contemporary African Literature.

Dramé started his lecture by giving the
audience background on the important
role the baobab tree has played in West Af-
rican cultures and emphasized the fact that
the people who live in the regions where the
tree is found have used this plants for mul-
tiple purposes for centuries. He then wove
in how the tree plays a significant role in

Mock Convention

BY STEVE LAMB
STAFF WRITER

This year’s Mock Convention has attracted
over 1600 participants.

While many state delegations have already
hosted their own parties, the Convention’s first ma-
jor event of the school year will take place this com-
ing Friday, November the l4"'. The largest
of Mock Convention’s social events,
The Presidential Gala will be a
memorable evening that “serves
a dual purpose of fimdraiser and
kick-off party,” said Personnel
Chair Jacquelyn Clark.

Clark, along with Mike
Baker, Abbey Harding, and aﬁ”
countless others, have all
worked hard to make the Mock-Con Gala
the unforgettable event it promises to be. At the
state level, frmd—raising efforts thus far have focused
primarily on private donors. The convention plans
on receiving support from the Five Star Generals, a
designation given to only the highest level donors.
In addition to the Gala and private donations, the
Convention hopes to organize some type of

    
   

Ken Bugul’s novel and how the novel made
an impact in the literary world. Dramé em-
phasized the fact that this novel was the first
to question the mother/ daughter relationship
in African literature leading the way into new
themes and topics

The lecture was relatively well attended

and those who were in the audience enjoyed
hemselves. Professor Mayock of the Span-
sh department especially enjoyed Professor
Dramés lectures as he was a professor of hers
luring her undergraduate years.

“It was really a treat to see him ‘back in
action,” she said,

Professor Kamara, who organized the en-
tire visit, said, “I was pleased with the event.
The turn out was not bad at all.” He also
stated that he was “in the process of search-
ing for funds for a colloquium on African
literature and film” and that he was looking
forward to continued support from the
school.

plans continue

fimdraiser that will take place in Washington, D.C.
The event will most likely be held in November or
December and will draw on the many Washington
and Lee alums and supporters in the D.C. area.
Virginia’s push-back of its primary date to Feb-
ruary provides the Convention with an excellent
opportunity to attract all the major Democratic Party
candidates to speak at the actual Delegation in Janu-
ary. The Mock Convention expects that
the Candidates support-building vis-
its to the Commonwealth will coin-
cide with the Convention, giving
them a viable reason to spend
some quality time at the nation’s
most storied Mock-Convention.
The 2004
Mock Convention is shaping
up to be a fantastic event thanks
to the hard work of over four hundred
W&L students who have logged countless hours
to make the Convention a reality. According to se-
nior Mike Denbow, working on the Convention pro-
vided him with an unparalleled experience, “It has
been great working with all the different personali-
ties and it could never have been done without
them.”

 

 

  

James a s mew ﬁt-I it

R9432? ‘I’

 .="‘r'

   

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10,2003

Endowed professorships help retain outstanding faculty

BY KAELA HARMON
STAFF WRIIER

Washington and Lee is on a
mission to guarantee students a
well-rounded educational experi-
ence. In order to do so, Wash-
ington and Lee must be able to
retain and attract outstanding fac-
ulty members. Endowed profes-
sorships or chairs allow the uni-
versity to do just that.

An endowed chair is a gift
of at least $1.5 million given to
the school usually in honor -of an
alum. Often, the gift is given with
the stipulation that it be awarded
to a faculty member who is an
expert in a speciﬁed ﬁeld. Ac-
cording to Provost Williams, once
the gift that creates an endowed

professorship is received, the
University will do one of two
things.

The award will “serve as rec-
ognition and reward for some of
our most distinguished faculty”
or, if the award is for an area of
study not yet established on
campus, a new professor will be
sought after to start a new pro-
gram. Such is the case with Pro-
fessor Luecke of the J-School
who was hired as a recipient of
the Reynolds Professorship in
order to establish a program in
business journalism.

As the money that makes a
professorship is not enough to
fully cover a professor’s salary,
the money goes in to the salary
pool as a whole. Instead of re-

ceiving a lump sum of money as
a salary, the recipient of the
award will see the raise that
comes with the award in their sal-
ary and will receive an annual dis-
cretionary fund.

Along with the fact that en-
dowed chairs help the university
financially, recipients of the
awards have the honor of bring-
ing prestige to their department
and as a whole serve to make
Washington and Lee a more repu-
table institution.

Dean Peppers of the C-School
noted, “endowed professorships
are used to lure top scholars ﬁom
other institutions.” Often, those
who are offered endowments are
awarded automatic tenure. Profes-
sor Jeans, who holds the chair for

the East Asian Studies Program,
observed that along with the pres-
tige of receiving an endowment
comes “pressure to continue to
do good wor ” saying “I should
continue to research and write so
I can deserve it.”

Such pressure motivates pro-
fessors to stay abreast of the hap-
penings within their ﬁeld, thus
making them more effective edu-
cators.

Currently, there are seven
endowed chairs in the Law School.
The C-School has six held by full-
time professors and one held by a
professor who retired from full-
time teaching. The College has
17. The English Department has
the most endowed professor-
ships, with three, while Math, Re-

ligion, Journalism and Physics all
have two. Sociology/Anthropol-
ogy. Psychology, Philosophy,
History and Art each have one.
There is also the chair set
aside for the East Asian Studies
interdepartmental program. Re-
cently, the university started a
campaign called For The Next
Generation that considers in-
creasing the number of endow-
ments as one of its primary goals.
Through this campaign
W&L is hoping to bring in $15
million in endowed professorships
and $6 million for the Law School.
The hope is that if the University
can use more gift money to go to-
wards salaries, the school can use
the money that frees up for other
projects and programs.

 

Pam Luecke holds the Reynolds
Professorship. The administration

wants more such endowments

Students failed to attend the information meetings about calendar decision

BY CAIHERINE SWAN

The calendar decision is now solely in the

Burish also elaborated on the many other fac-

The more profound calendar change that is made

SENIOR STAFF WRITER

In an effort to keep students informed about
the status of the calendar discussion, the University
held two information sessions in Lee Chapel last
week

EC President Helen Hughes and University
President Tom Burish delivered statements on the
discussion’s progress, while Provost Tom Williams
was on hand to help answer student questions.

“The current calendar, if maintained, is going to
be modiﬁed,” said Hughes during Thursday night’s
session. Exactly how the calendar will be modiﬁed is
an issue that has yet to be determined.

hands of the trustees. Due to the complexity of the
issue, the trustees were unable to
make a decision during their October
meeting. President Burish indicated
that their decision will be based on
ﬁnances.

Under a 14-14 calendar fewer
classes are needed to graduate than
undera l2—l2—6 calendar. Thus, there
is less of a financial burden on the
University to finance as many
classes. The trustees have a responsibility to look
at the costs of each calendar, as well as the money
available when making a decision.

Campus Hidden Heroes

Phi spotlights Senior Joanna Pen'ni for her contributions to service on campus

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRIIER

This week’s Hidden Hero is Joanna Perini, a se-
nior who utilizes her many leadership qualities in her
activities. Perini describes herself as “dedicated, pas-
sionate and outgoing, but a complete goober at the
same time.”

She is a psychology and public policy double

major. Perini had her‘ mind set on the public policy 1

major because she felt it was a good combination of
politics and economics, plus she could incorporate
the Shepherd Poverty Program into her studies. She
took Brain and Behavior freshmen year and enjoyed
it enough to major in psychology as well.

Most notably, she is the head of the N abors
Service League. She has worked with Nabors since
her freshmen year, and was asked to be president this
year. Perini stresses that community service is an
important aspect here, and that programs like Nabors
help to foster programs and get projects under way.

Pemini’s activitiesanecertainly not limited to this.
Aside from playing lacrosse since freshmen year, she
held an internship at the New York City Department
of Correction at Rikers Island over the summer.

Joanna says that the thing she loves the most
about Washington and Lee is the sense of commu-
nity. She mentions that even though it is somewhat
cliché, she believes that it runs even deeper than most
students realize: “the grounds crew, security,
secretaries. . .everyone plays a part in the community,
and that’s what makes it so special,” she says.

Her favorite classes during her time at Washing-
ton and Lee have been very diverse ranging from
Intro to Poverty to Money and Banking. As her un-

Nominate a Hidden Hero!
Email phi@wlu.edu with the
name of an outstanding
student today!

The Cutting
Qicfqe

Compkte ﬂair Care for
Men amf ‘Women

Style Cuts
Cfipper Cuts

Complete Qocfy Care

Manicure
(Pedicure
‘Waxing

117 ‘W. .7V'e[son St.
Leacington, ‘I/fl
463-9588

Close to Campus
Q’rqfessiona[Sa[on witﬂ a
G’ersona[’1?)ucﬁ!

dergraduate career winds down, she hopes to attend
law school. Right now she is currently looking for
teaching fellowships, where her two degrees will
surely to come in handy.

Perini’s advice to other students: get involved,
with anything and everything you can. She is a prime
example of the diverse activities one can be involved
withatthisschool—sheurgesthatwelookpastourlittle
comfort zone and discover what is out there.

SIEVEN MARINOS / TI-HE 

Hidden Hero. Joanna Perini is active and humble

The current calendar,
if maintained,
is going to be
modified.
HELEN HUGHES
ECPRESIDNET

tors the Board is taking into consideration. They
take into account how many new fac-
ulty and staff would need to be hired
under each calendar, and also what
unordinary expenses the University
expects to occur in the future, such
as renovations to the colonnade.
They also consider what implications
increased ﬁnancial aid and class size
could have.

No matter what kinds of changes
take place, Provost Wﬂharns said that current fresh-
men were the only class that could see a new calen-
darjmplemented while they were at W&L.

the longer it will take to implement, thus there is also '

the possibility that no current students will still be at
W&L to experience a calendar change. The board is
comrrritted to making a decision by the end of the
academic year, and hopes to make the decision dur-
ing their February meeting.

Despite student opinion in favor of spring term,
few students actually attended the information ses-
sions to show their support. Monday night’s ses-
sion had approximately 15 attendees, while Thurs-
day night’s session had about 25 in attendance.

“I came because I thought if I didn’t come I
would have no right to complain about the possible
absence of spring term,” said Ellen Lide.

Greek organizations help philanthropies

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
STAFF WRITER

The philanthropic aspect of
Fraternities and Sororities may
not receive much attention, but
it exists and is growing stronger.

The Owings Service Initia-
tive, headed by Kate Talbert and
Patrick Hasting, seeks to help
organize the fraternity ‘philanthro-
pies;  '

“I had the idea to do some-

thing organized through Nabors.

Service League that would pro-
vide a more active incorporation
of Community Service in
pledgeship,” said Hastings.
The Owings Service Initia-
tive has a list of several local phil-
anthropic projects. They meet
with the philanthropy chairs of
the fraternities to provide them
with the options on the list, and
then fraternities choose one 10-
cal philanthropy to concentrate
on during pledgeship.
Currently, seven fraternities
have chosen their community
service projects. Kappa Sig will
focus on roadside cleanup; Phi
Psi will walk dogs; SAE will help
Hunters for the Hungry; Sigma
Chi will concentrate on the Spe-
cial Olympics; Pi Phi will aid the
Natural Bridge Correctional Fa-
cility, Phi Kap will concentrate on

the Literacy Campaign, and
Lamda Chi will assist RARO
children’s sport.

Phi Delt, Beta, and Pika have
also shown interest in picking a
local philanthropy.

“It’s just a matter that frater-
nities don’t know who to get in
touch with and how to get it,”
said Hastings. “We want to make
it as easy as possible.”

The next step involves
extending philanthropy from
pledgeship into the entire
year.

“The Owings Service Initia-
tive is a great way to have pledge
classes bond, while doing some-
thing constructive for our com-
munity,” said Talbort. “Ideally,
work the fraternity does for their
local philanthropy during
pledgeship will carry over into the
regular school year.”

Sororities tend to focus on
national and local projects. On
Philanthropy Night of Formal
Rush, every sorority involves
freshmen girls in a philanthropy
project.

Kappa Delta participates in
four national philanthropies: Girl
Scouts, Prevent Child Abuse
America, Richmond Children’s
Hospital, and Orthopedic Sur-
geons Award and helps Project
Horizon locally.

rrrspzntn at in ms. sum  stints

Seats titre, has 53 static
feet of cargo space, and
is airaiiaaie with 188 he
and 3 3-seeeé raairaat
shift.
eaift fatty exaiaia it.

Chi Omega assists Make-A-
Wish foundation for their na-
tional philanthropy. The pro-
ceeds for their Haunted House
with Lambda Chi on Halloween
went to this. They also partici-
pate in Walk for a Cure for breast
cancer.

Kappa Kappa Gamma
does community service at
Waddell Elementary and the
Mayﬂower Retirement Home.
Their Bowl-A-Thon earlier this
year raised money for the
American Heart Association,
and they began a tradition last
year of a 5K run for Neuro-
blastoma.

Pi Beta Phi is involved with
Links to Literacy as they sup-
port reading programs at the
Rockbridge Regional Library and
Waddell Elementary. Their an-
nual Flag Football Tournament
held in November funds their
donations to Make a Vifrsh Foun-
dation.

Kappa Alpha Theta concen-
trates their philanthropy prima-
rily on Court Appointed Special
Advocate (CASA). This program
appoints lawyers to pick up chil-
dren.

Recently , they also orga-
nized the Pancake Breakfast with
Phi Psi and the 5K run with KA
to donate to charity.

 

 

Eran arnlutinn

ﬁiiﬁi 7.53-iV.§iE%..§§iIt.F?.35??  i.E3§.r;1.. liﬁ  iii‘.
iii? if Fiﬁ  ‘£333   i‘  !fii€i.|.§3i?»S
    ‘(FE-.  
 LEEKSE  ﬁ.I.'ii3 §t32'”Jt£53.i2?’ 
   F335 fsirili 

 

V:

C

 

It

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

'3" ;Rixs::-*2r;n?ni
1 )lTORIAL

No sophomore donn counselors

Dean Futrell has announced that, this
year, the dorm counselor and resident
assistant positions will be open to fresh-
man, paving the way to sophomore dorm
counselors next year.

Her announced motivation is "that
most students who leave school do so
during the sophomore year. Allowing stu-
dents to be dorm counselors during their
sophomore year, Futrell reasons, will in-
volve them more intimately with the
Washington and Lee community and de- ’
crease the number of defections.

On face her reasoning is faulty. Will
students who are seriously considering
leaving W&L apply to become dorm
counselors in the ﬁrst place? Moreover,
of those who do, how likely is it that a
student so dissatisﬁed with W&L that he
is considering leaving will remain only to
fulﬁll his obligations as a dorm counse-
lor?

Also, does the school really want to
place its least enthusiastic students in
charge of reassuring recently-arrived
freshmen?

I Inaddition, the position of dorm coun-
selor has been traditionally reserved for
juniors and seniors because they, simply,
have more experience at the school and
are more able to counsel uncertain fresh-
man.

Also, sophomores are heavily in-
volved in rush and, unlike, older students
would be unable, through no fault of their
own, to provide objective, impartial ad-
vice to their curious residents.

Dean Futrell, please reconsider your
decision and continue to limit the ranks
of dorm counselors and resident
assistancts to well—qualiﬁed and time-
tested juniors and seniors.

 

mm m

 

PAGE 3

Puorooourmsvor lememfowg

THIS IS PRO-LIFE. The immense and far-reaching positive impacts that stem cell research could provide will far outweigh the negatives, if there even are any.

 

“Three months ago, Governor Dean was
saying what a Democratic principle it is to
have campaign ﬁnance reform. . .Now, Mr.
Change—Your-Opinion—for-Expediency is
saying, ‘Oh, I’ in now able to raise money.
Maybe we should get out of the system.”

~SenatorJolmKe1ry (D-Mass).
Gov.Deanisopting out of public
carnpaignfundingtoallowhirnselfto
spendunlirnitedfunds.

Science and technology areiwonderful and amazing things. No one who
has beneﬁted ﬁrst-hand from this can argue any differently. Today, the state
of things is a far cry from the days when the practice of medicine was associ-
ated with “bleeding” the evil humors out of people, evaluating a patient’s
prognosis in terms of omens and favorable signs, and believing germs were
nothing more than a fanciful notion. At the same time that cancer and other
diseases seem to be growing more common, so that you are hard pressed to
find someone that is not personally affected by it in some way, medicine is
also developing more advanced methods of treatment. Every week, there
seems to be a new breakthrough or “medical miracle” in
some ﬁeld. The entire human genome has already been
mapped, scientists are discovering what genes make a per-
son more susceptible to getting cancer or other diseases,
and promising new medications are constantly being devel-
oped. Nothing should stand in the way of science, if it has the ultimate goal of
saving millions of lives. Stem cell research has to be funded and given top
priority; otherwise a very valuable tool is going to waste.

Morality should always be questioned in new practices. Otherwise, things
could quickly get out of control. Cloning has serious implications, and it is a
practice that is correct in being halted and monitored. But stem cell research
should not be lumped into the same category. For some basic background:
stem cell research involves growing cells from human or embryonic stem cells
into a stem-cell line so that they can be studied. Through researching them,
scientists can see how healthy cells replace damaged ones which could even-
tually lead to the real possibility of generating cell-based therapies. Stem
cells are different and more beneﬁcial to the ﬁeld of medicine than regular
cells, because they are self-renewing for long periods of time through cell
division and can be altered into functioning like a beating cell of the heart

 

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNrF1NuzY‘07

muscle or an insu1in—producing cell of the pancreas. Embryonic cells are the
most promising. When a couple has problems with infertility, embryos are
created and stored for in vitro fertilization. The vast majority of these will
never be used and are eventually discarded or lose their potential. They have
only been studied since 1998- so this is a new and very promising ﬁeld that
could eventually cure or more effectively treat diseases like Parkinson’s, dia-
betes, and heart disease.

The valuable use of embryonic stem cells for research is almost viewed
today as similar to abortion. Yet, even abortion, (a much more severe and
questionable act), is allowed during the ﬁrst trimester of a
pregnancy and in cases where the health of the mother is
endangered. But think how many mothers and people in gen-
eral, stand to beneﬁt from stem cell research. And even though
I would probably agree with the idea of giving a life to save
millions, such is not even the case with embryonic research. The practice in
no way destroys a potential life; for it would only use those no longer needed.
If it is acceptable to let embryos go unused wouldn’t be even better for
scientists to use them responsibly in a way that could conceivably beneﬁt
millions?

Man must adapt to the times, and technology should always be given
free-reign to lead the way. Think where we would be today if medical research
had not been funded along the way. And think where we could be in the very
near future if our country would properly fund and support such a valuable
opportunity as stem cell research. Let’s not let an imaginary issue of morality
stand in the way of progress. Support Michael J. Fox and look out for the
future of yourself and those you care about. We may not be able to wipe out
disease entirely, but we must do everything in our power to help control and
treat it.

   

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor‘

News Editor

Opinions Editor

' Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Was:

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan

Cody Gabbard

John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Hilary Henry

Emily Edwards

Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha 5
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Editorial Director Katie J. Howell

Business Manager
Circulation Director Henry G1-imball
Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-rum Phi is a
member of The Publications Board, but is otherwise
independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-turn Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wIu.edu

Paul Seifert

Quiet please, some of us are trying to study

“Every action done in company ought to
be done with some sign of respect to those
that are present.” This is the first and, I think,
most important rule in George Washington’s
110 Rules of Civility yet it is one people often
neglect. On Thursday night, my study buddy
decided to study in one of the booths in the

' marketplace. I love studying here because it
is cozy, comfortable, and most importantly,
peaceful. However, Thursday night lacked the
last element. Everyone was studying dili-
gently until a conversation erupted and cre-
ated a noisy downfall from that moment on.
First one male individual from behind us fin-
ished his studies and decided »
to leave, but he also decided
to make a pit-stop at the booth
infront of us and carry on a
regular conversation at a nor-
mal volume. This negligence got a little un-
der my skin.

But the night did not end here. It got
worse. My study buddy then politely asked
the two gentlemen to quiet down because
people were studying, which they did for 5
seconds. They then resumed their conversa-
tion at the same volume.

Then the next table down of four people
decided that it was time to take a study break
and started to talk freely, loudly, and pro-
fusely; and laughed and giggled in the same
manner as if there was no one else around, as
if there were not other individuals in the room
focusing on their studies. This did not stop,
despite the glares we often gave them along
with the other poor individual trying to focus

  

TRAIN or THOUGHT
TmKM‘OL

on her work. Just when I didn’t think things
could worsen, a new duo arrived at the chat-
ting club and rather than studying decide to
laugh and chat as if this was a nightclub rather
than a space where people were working. In
the meantime, my study buddy and I are still
whispering to each other, thoughil don’t know
for what reason.

These individuals (whom I hope are read-
ing this piece and recognizing themselves)
clearly disrespected thestudying space oc-
cupied by the other individuals. What they
did was rude, obnoxious, and incomprehen-
sible. How is it possible to see three people
reading intently into their
books and not discern that
maybe they're trying to con-
centrate? It only takes context
clues, something we learned in
elementary school, to understand the sce-
nario.

And now I am brought back to another
incident last month at the Leyburn Library. I
was sitting peacefully in the library in my little
carrel, meticulously studying for a journalism
class, when I hear a cell phone ring at what
I’m sure was the highest volume level.

But I wasn’t annoyed since I know that
people forget to turn their ringer or put it on
vibrate, but that feeling of understanding
quickly diminished.

Next, the female student proceeded to
carry a conversation on her telephone in the
library, in her carrel. I know I lack common
sense, but this action brought the expression
of “having no common sense” to’ a newer and

higher level. I was speechless. I was just
shocked that this would happen in a place
where I assumed every student had good man-
ners. Call me naive. ‘

This negligent behavior is simply put, an-
noying. It is infuriatingly annoying. In these
two scenarios, the behavior didn’t result in
detrimental consequences because I had the
courtesy to cool my temper, but in another
situation, the outcome may not have been so
mild.

Lack of social grace in business atmo-
sphere may cost a business client or leave
you ostracized. Regardless, you will forever
be known as the obnoxious loudmouth who
needs a muzzle.

Being loud when others are quiet exhibits
several unappealing traits about an individual.
I’ve already touched on the rudeness factor
so I won’t elaborate on that any further. You

appear self-centered because you are trying .

to draw attention to yourself by your loud-
ness. You appear to be inconsiderate because
you have obviously ignored the comfort of
those around you by imposing your loudness
on them. You also appear foolish because
you are misjudging the situation around you.
So I just urge everyone to please practice con-
sideration in your surroundings and use your
intellectual’ skills to observe the people
around you and analyze how people are be-
having. If people are obviously studying,
then take your conversations to a social place
where most people are talking. Astr I wrote
last week, appearances do matter. And none
of us want to appear to be obnoxious.

 

  

 

PAGE 4

  
  



Independent says rumors of Greek exclusivity exaggerated

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

CDURTESY OF

SODA AND BEER. These students haven’t let their beveragatic differences come between their ability to have a great time together. Washmgton and Lee, fortunately, has no such problems either.

lam a Californian. lam a
non-drinker, a non-smoker,
and quite generally a non-
substance user. I am an inde-
pendent. Though I like to

think of myself as a moderate,

I tend to vote Democrat more
often than Republican. I am
economically middle class. I
don’t go to a whole lot of par-
ties. In other words, if I were
also gay and an ethnic minor-
ity, I’d be the most’ atypical
Washington and Lee student
ever. '

Coming into Washington
and Lee with all of these no-
tions about who I was, and
also with a lot of preconcep-
tions about how the Univer-
sity social life worked, I was
a bit scared during the Sum-
mer of 2002. 80% or so of
guys joined fraternities, and
I wasn’t planning on pledg-
ing. Pretty much everyone at
W&L seemed to drink, as I
learned on my campus visit
during my senior year of high
school. I, as mentioned ear-
lier, just don’t drink (don’t

0

get me wrong, I don’t think
drinking is wrong, heavens
no, it’s just something I pre-
fer not to do myself). The
school seemed to have a lot
of rich people with private
educations and monthly al-
lowances from their parents in
the quadruple (or, in one
case, quintuple) digits. I
come from a thor-
oughly . "middle
class background,
and additionally
from a run—down
public high school
that was unfortunate enough
to be shot up during my jun-
ior year there. All these ques-
tions and more weighed on
my mind as I reflected on my
differences from the typical
incoming General. Would I
take a lot of ﬂak for this?
Would I become a W&L out-
sider?

The answer, thankfully,
was a resounding no. The
myth of the Woods Creek in-
dependent hosting Magic:
The Gathering parties alone

in his apartment is just that-
a myth (LOTS of people come
to my Magic: The Gathering
parties.....just kidding). Sure,
a lot of people join Greek or-
ganizations here, and a lot of
people drink, but it doesn’t
exclude you from the univer-
sity as a whole if you don’t.
Nor does it piss off the people
who do
choose to

MODERATE’SMUSINGS participate.

My fellow
Wa s h i n g -
ton and Lee
students, frat/srat members
and independents alike,
could not have possibly been
nicer to me during my time
here. My status as an inde-
pendent is no barrier at all be-
tween the buddies and
friends I have who are broth-
ers or sisters. Nor does it
keep me from going to parties
when the urge takes me. I am
happy to report that a Wash-
ington'and Lee student on-
campus is a General first, and
a frat/srat member second.

I don’t go, as I said be-
fore, to many parties, but that
doesn’t keep me from having
a social life or friends, nor am
I ever bored. Besides study-
ing, my extracurriculars (fenc-
ing, SRC, Honor Advocacy,
the Ring-tum Phi, and a dozen
other things) keep me busy,
and allow me to meet a vast
array of new people every
day.

W&L, for whatever rea-
son, has a stereotype as be-
ing a rich kids’ school that’s
highly exclusionary if you’re
not a good ole’ boy or girl
from the deep south who en-
joys drinking...a lot. It’s a ste-
reotype that is quite simply
not true.
traditions, and sure, it has a
fair number of people that fit
the above description, but I
can tell you first-hand that
those peopleiare some of the
coolest and most accepting at
the school. I haven’t had an
alcoholic beverage since age
three, (when my mom tells me
I used to guzzle her wine

W&L has strong’

coolers) but that hasn’t nega-
tively affected me at all dur-
ing my time here. While I
can’t tell you what it’s like to
be a gay student or an ethnic
minority student at W&L
(that’s the job of the GSA and
MSA, respectively), I can tell
you that my differences from
a majority of W&L students
haven’t dampened my Lex-
ington experience at all. I
have nothing but positive
stories and mind-opening ex-
periences to relate to my
friends back home (I even
played a drinking game
against a frat brother on one
infamous occasion. As it
turned out, I ended up not
drinking at all during the
game, thus preserving my
nearly 17-year long streak of
teetotaling, but that’s a long
story).

The fact of the matter is,
at Washington and Lee, that
those of us who are members
of that more covert fraternity
known as Gamma Delta Iota
(GDI, for those of you who

are shrugging), enjoy the same
fun times and membership in the
Washington and Lee community
as everyone else does. In no
way do I, at least, feel excluded
by the rest of the campus. Not
even once has any single indi-
vidual given me a hard time
about my unorthodox way of life
here. Nor have I felt any pres-
sure to change my ways, al-
though certainly I get the feel-
ing'I’d get the same respectful
treatment that I do now if I did.
And I’m active on campus. I
know a lot of people, and vice
versa. I definitely have a high
level of involvement on—campus
without following the usual
method.

Everyone involved with
W&L, the alumni, parents, staff,
faculty, administrators, and cur-
rent students, should all be
proud of the institution that
W&L is. Prospective students
should not be afraid of the hype
that W&L gets as an exclusion-
ary school. Washington and
Lee is quite simply an excellent
college, and a fun place to be.

 

Write for the Phi!

The Ring-tum Phi is currently seeking individuals to ﬁll positions in all sections of the paper.

Interested individuals should contact phi @wlu.edu or call x4060

 

Interviews?
Internship?
Special occasion?

your best!!

and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all
accessories

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or
with questions
540-815-4557

Tom James Company

|Let us help you look and feel

Custom and Ready Made Suits

Student Packages Available

AmnWmm 

Get real-world sales, marketing
and management experience

Phi Business is currently looking for new staff

Call Paul Seifert at 458-4060 or

 
  

.---*-""'\.'

 

 New

      
 

‘ phi-business@wlu.edu

KYCHILD

CD

W W W.BOSSCITY.COM
617-436-5719

    

 

   
     

ll ‘hi :2, tom (task, 60 free!
ring Owtampus Rap:

l~8=0O~§a18-$3»¥9 ;‘ wv:w.:mmvcl.xom

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
_ Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! 1-800-234-7007
. endlesssummertours.com

V

 

  

](}lNHYIAl\D
AssirANrS1>oRisEi>rroR

FMAl[:HYlANI)@WllJH)U
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

 

Womens’ soccer heads to regional fight  
with dominant ODAC championship play

BY KATHERINE SHELL
STAFF WRHER

Last Wednesday, the W&L women’s soccer team
beat Lynchburg 1-0 in Lexington to advance to the
ODAC ﬁnals. On Saturday, they defeated Virginia
Wesleyan 2-1 to win their second straight ODAC
crown and qualiﬁed to play in the NCAA Division HI
Tournament for the second time in W&L history.

In the semis, W&L and Lynchburg played a tight
first half to a scoreless tie. Ten minutes into the sec-
ond half, however, Generals forward Kerry Giblin ’06
scored on a failed clearing attempt by the Hornets.
W&L held onto the win, despite being outshot 12-4,
with the game ending in" a 1-0 score. Key in the Gen-
erals ability to hold off a potent Hornet offense was
junior goalkeeper Emily Barker who made 3 out of her
4 saves in the final minutes of the game.

W&L’s victory over top—seeded Virginia
Wesleyan in Norfolk came after the Generals con-
nected twice in the first half to open up a 2-0 lead.
Heather Rogers ’06 scored off an assist from Anne
Wilshire ’07 and Rebecca Cohn ’07 scored off an
assist from Fontaine Marcoux ’04. The Generals came
out ﬂying in the first half, out shooting the Marlins
8-1. It was Virginia Wesleyan, however, the seventh
ranked team in the nation that came out blazing in the
second half, out shooting W&L 10-1. However, they
were unable to get a goal by Barker until less than 10
minutes left in the game. The Generals defense, led
by Barker, who made 8 saves for the game, was able
to hold on to preserve the win. The victory for the
18th ranked Generals enabled them to avenge their
only loss of the season. They will enter postseason
play with a record of 15-1-2.

After the game, Giblin commented, “We played
really well together as a team, which is what has got-
ten us through this season.” The Generals hope that
it is this team chemistry that will carry them into the
NCAA tournament. The location, time and opponent
in the first round will be armounced later this week.

Tuesday, November 11

Wednesday, November 12

I Uimzsv SPORTS INFORMATION
ODAC DYNASIY. The Generals continue their winning ways by once again winning the ODACS.

Thursday, November 13

LAURA PONHER RJNG-ruivi PHI
CHAMPS. Freshrrian Anne Wiltshire takes on a defender in the Generals’ successful ODAC championship bid.

Voli.ey‘r3aij. captures fifth ODAC title in six years

Generals advance to NCAA
South Regionals ,
with dominating ODAC play

BY JOHN HYIAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L volleyball team continued their su-
premacy of the ODAC after capturing their ﬁfth con-
ference title in six years on Saturday. Their victory
over Bridgewater in the finals gave the Generals a
birth in the NCAA tournament.

En route to the finals, the Generals dominated
eighth seeded Virginia Wesleyan in the quarterfinals
on Friday night, on scores of 30-24, 30-18, 30-17.
W&L was led by junior outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng,
who tallied 12 kills, 5 digs and 4 aces and sophomore
Christine Gladysz, who contributed 33 assists and
ﬁve aces. The Generals once again cruised to vic-
tory in the semifinals on Saturday morning, ousting
fourth seeded Roanoke 30-21, 30-19, 30-22. W&L was
led by sophomore middle blocker Susan Gilliard, who
recorded 15 kills, junior outside hitter Michelle
Chastain added 13 kills and 12 digs. Gladysz added
37 assists, 14 digs and one ace. Bridgewater entered
the finals as the third seed after falling to the Gener-
als 3-1 in the regular season. This match would prove
to be much harder than W&L’s previous tournament
victories. In the first game, the Eagles hung tough
before falling 30-28 but were able to bounce back in
the second game to win 30-23. wit}! the score tied at
one, the Generals demonstrated the dominance that
allowed them to finish undefeated in conference play.
They took the third game 30-23 before cruising in the
decisive fourth game, 30-14. In the ﬁnals, Gilliard had
13 kills and 3 blocks and Wolﬁng added 12 kills, 18
digs and 2 aces. Gladysz once again paced the Gen-
erals with 46 assists, 3 blocks and four aces. She was
named to the all—toumament team along with Wolf-
ing who was also declared the tournament MVP.

W&L will enter the NCAA tournament with a
34-3 overall record after receiving votes for the na-
tional top 25 in the latest poll. As third seed in the
South Region, the Generals will face Aveiett on Thurs-
day at Trinity in San Antonio, Texas.

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDULE

Friday, November 14

PAGE 5

Men lose

in ODAC final
to top seed
VirginiaWeslyan

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L men’s soccer team lost in the
ODAC tournament ﬁnals on Saturday night, drop-
ping a 3-1 decision to host and top seed Virginia
Wesleyan. Awin would have guaranteed the Gen-
erals a birth in the NCAA tournament but instead
their season concludes with a 7-6-4 overall record.

The Generals reached the finals after besting
sixth seeded Guilford in the semifinals on Friday.
W&L opened up the scoring when junior
midﬁelder Justin Mygatt found the net on a break
away 33 minutes into the game. The Generals ex-
tended their lead early in the second half on an
unassisted tally from freshman midﬁelder Rhett
McCraw. The Generals seemed to be cruising on
their way to the ﬁnals until the Quakers got on
the scoreboard off of a penalty kick with just 15
minutes to play in the game. Just ﬁve minutes
later, Quaker forward Brett Ralls headed homea
shot that beat Generals goalie Michael Stanton to
tie the game at 2. The score remained tied at the
end of regulation and through overtime as the
Generals were unable to connect on their three
shots on goal. The game entered penalty kicks
just as it had in the Generals quarterfinal upset of
second seeded Roanoke. Once again, W&L pre-
vailed, this time winning the PKs 6-5. Stanton’s
stop on the Quakers ﬁnal attempt sealed the game.
The sophomore made four saves on the day.

Virginia Wesleyan entered the ﬁnal with a 15-
3 overall record and a number 23 ranking nation-
ally. They ousted Rando1ph—Macon in the semiﬁ-
nals with a decisive 4-0 victory and had defeated
the Generals 2-0 in their regular season meeting.
The Marlins seemed poised to win the champion-
ship but were unable to capitalize on any of their
seven ﬁrst half shots with Stanton making two
saves. The Marlins came out on fire in the second
half, scoring twice in the first ten minutes to se-
cure a 2-0 lead. The Generals cut the lead in half
when Mygatt headed home junior forward Brian
Pirkle’s comer kick just ten minutes later. Pirkle
ﬁnished the season as the Generals leading scorer
with 18 points on 8 goals and 2 assists. However,
the Marlins sealed the victory on Kelvin MurrayTs
breakaway goal with 3 minutes left in the game to
give his team a 3-1 decision. Murray contributed
in every Marlin goal, finishing the game with two
goals and an assist. Virginia Wesleyan controlled
much of the game, out shooting the Generals 14-
6. Stanton made 4 saves in the loss.

Despite coming up short in the finals, the
Generals ended their season on a very positive
note. They barely qualiﬁed for the conference tour-
nament after losing ﬁve of their six games and
entering the tournament as the seventh seed in
the eight team tournament. After the game, junior
midﬁelder Josh Giahe commented, “we played a
great team today but we peaked at the right time
and played our best in the tournament.” The Gen-
erals will carry that positive play into next season
when they return virtually their entire team, in-
cluding 18 freshmen and sophomores, and only
lose senior midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr.

UPPBBT
Gtutnnis’
ntiiittics

Saturday, November 15

Sunday, November 16

0 Open 0 Open

0 VB vs. Averett at Trin-
ity-- TBA

- VB at Trinity--TBA

TBA

OVB at Trinity--TBA

0 FB vs. Greensboro--1:00
0 Cross Country at
Regionals--11 :00

0 Riding. at JMU/BC--

0 Open

 

 

 

 



 

Field hockey seaso nds with C tournam

Team falls to
Eastern
Menonite, 5-0

W&L Sponrs RELEAsE

NORFOLK, Va. — The third-seeded
Washington and Lee field hockey team
wrapped up the 2003 season on Friday, as the
Generals fell to second-seeded Eastern Men-
nonite University, 5-0, in the ODAC touma-
ment semiﬁnals, at Virginia Wesleyan.

The Royals (16-3) took a2—0 lead into half-
time and added a mo of goals after the break
to extend their lead. Senior forward Kristin
Moyer led Eastern Mennonite with a goal and
a pair of assists, while sophomore forward
J onalyn Denlinger led Eastern Mennonite with
two goals.

Sophomore Courtney Harrison (Rich-
mond, Va./Collegiate) and Elise Gelinas
(Rosemont, Pa./Agnes Irwin) split time in the
Generals (10-9) goal. Harrison made 10 saves
while Gelinas made one save.

Freshman Emily Chamelin played all 70:00
minutes for the Royals, making three saves.

The Generals ﬁnished the season with a

10-9 overall record and a 6-3 mark in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

COURTESY SPORTS INIDRMATION

RUNNERS HEAD TO REGIONALS. On the heals of ODAC Runner of
the Year Andy Schorr, the Generals Cross Country teams head to
Atlanta, Ga. on Saturday to compete in the NCAA South/ Southeast ,
Regional Championships.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

 

I

No GOAL. The Generals bowed out of the ODAC Tournament Semiﬁnals with a 5-0 loss to Eastern Menonite University.

I“ 9- K5:

ent loss

  
      

  

Swimming earns a pairof victories at Catholic

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

WASHINGTON D.C. —
The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams
earned a pair of victories over
Catholic on Sunday. The Gener-
als’ men’s squad defeated the
Cardinals 123.5-81.5, while the
W&L women’s squad edged
Catholic 103-102.

The Generals men’s team (3-
0) was led by freshman Michael
Ginder (Jacksonville, F1a/Episco-
pal). Ginder emerged as the only
W&L multiple individual event

Football falls toeEmory and Henry

winner on the day with top hon-
orsinthe 200 Free (151.81) and a
ﬁrst-place tie in the 100 Free
(48.89). He also teamed up with
senior Eric Ritter (Birmingham,
Ala./Mountain Brook), freshman
Benjamin Accinelli (Dubuque,
Iowa/Hempstead) and senior
Drew Catanese (Southampton,
Mass./Suffield Acad.) for the
winning 400 Medley Relay
(3246.49).

Ritter also won the 200 Back
(2:01 .26), while senior Paul Laraia
(Houston, Texas/Memorial) hit

the wall first in the 200 Fly
(2208.92) and teamed with fresh-
man Kevin Hayes (Mercer ls-
land, Wash./Mercer Island),
sophomore Reed Evans (Greens-
boro, N.C./Greensboro Day) and
freshman Maxwell Pike
(Goldsboro, N.C./Wayne Coun-
try Day) for top honors in the 400
Free Relay (3 :30.87).

On the women’s side the
Generals(103-102) started the day
top honors in the 400 Medley
Relay when sophomore Keturah
Akida (Vmcennes, Ind./Lincoln),

sophomore Beth Sauer
(Reisterstown, Md./McDonogh),
freshman Abbie Sauter (Darien,
Conn./Darien) and sophomore
Kristine Holda (Strongsville,
Ohio/Strongsville) combined for
atime of 2:24.14.

Holda also won the 50 Free
(26.16) and Sauter won the 200
Breast (2235.01) to round out
W&L’s multiple event winners.

The W&L women’s team re-
turns to action on Tuesday, Nov.
18 when they host Hollins. Meet
time is 7:00 p.m.

 

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

Despite leading 3-0 on an early Ben
Long 37-yard ﬁeld goal, the Generals
couldn’t come back from Emory and
Henry’s 34 unanswered points, and lost
34-16. The Generals were out rushed 195-
21 and out passed 247-159, even though
sophomore quarterback Greg Tweardy was
11-21 for 142 yards and a touchdown.

The Generals created turnovers in the
form of an Andrew Bahl forced fumble, a
Stewart Swann interception among oth-
ers, but couldn’t convert despite good ﬁeld
position. Fortunately, the offense picked

tip of the
week:

and after
playing.

 

§e:a*ar.saas§iaaatt2aaa.ca:a

Golf Etiquette

Golf is a sport:
make sure to
stretch before

HBPPY
Birthday

Allison!

Have a
great
21st!!!

  

Fliésliﬁ

£§a.c.».az:s. Laraeerezca Raressi.
?»"r=..«‘é¥££’<‘»”?KL?:'>'J&t4f.?tEi€ trier;-zine

$é§«§8’i'~3£4?

309 N. Main St. —  , VA 24450

Phi love
from
your

friends,

JEB!
KW, EJ,
MM, CA,



KH, HH,

   

it up in the fourth quarter, as senior quar-
terback Peter Dean hooked up with
sophomore running back Michael Lackett
for a two—yard score. Tweardy found jun-
ior wide receiver John Bamwell for an 1 1-
yard score with 4 minutes remaining. The
offense looked stronger as the game pro-
gressed, but couldn’t pull it out in the
end.

Defensively, the Generals had
trouble containing the run, in spite of a
l3—tackle effort from junior linebacker
Lloyd Wilson and a heap of turnovers.
The Generals drop to 2-7, 1-5 on the sea-
son, and return to ﬁnish the season at
home against Greensboro at 1:00 pm.

 

LSAT score
guar nteed  
or your money back“

Going to law sczhml in 2035? Prepare   LSKT
with  here. an eampua at W&l.'.ll

classes begin an Fabnm-y 23. 
Enroll  begin your
stuﬁns at any ﬁmeit

WnrldLeadorh'|'b8tPmp

rnjrhom-st

    

  
 

campm

g':_;é 'ft:indr'.<1is‘;rag made Simple, 5.11:‘: arid? -8‘-.|-ea».

15$;-§l3§3§# ’ftis.‘1§fi‘e‘s.i§ir')g  ayaéieileh. Me cssrmsiéuséz. 2.94:; an . .
Ft.eit.£§;z‘a9slrt§:.  we mag. -¢.§1.i35.’«klf{t‘-  wﬂhe Xﬁt: pg2.>§g!::&s‘¥l:t€ ﬁlm a.-\«a$._.=¥.

rr;.-g..~'3-'i:«iie;smr.<;-;;-.m-,,r;-;.- ca.r:a;ge i"rmtfm§.rir:g.

333--923-323-8 - ww-w..cam;:rus at?

 
   
 

, lust 

     

  

CG, JH,
CK,
B TK

 air requested-cusses or make-ran aessltma.
wmaleta all azittiadtmd mats,  ﬁt’: 
at your score §lCk‘l8T$"l mnrme an ma‘ my Time your
‘Kaplm dtagnbstie: at a  atﬁalal  mm.-., 
wnefmneemiiematmrrwgaamaiariraevorgeaa
{rail mm of gurrr-tisttbrie. T153 395 eligibtefur this after,
mu mist heemraaed at 9tenlm":a ma claaarnom.
ttiaeririx, at errilrra cmraea. in atldtmns. .9912 must
ereeem an iaéﬁatat cf sacsare wearer: and
eatm1tt:mir mums materials within 290 

41.:&t’f is .9   :51‘ 111052  Mm!  

 

KAPLAN

t-can-tar-rest
kaptestcain/law

Natural Bridge, Virginia—is there a town in
America that rivals the eclectic attractions it of-
fers? Not only can you ﬁnd the Natural Bridge
itself, one of the Seven Natural Wonders, you
can also visit the Wax Museum, the Safari Zoo,
Enchanted Castle Studios (temporarily closed,
sadly), and the Pink Cadillac. But
who knew that amongst the kitsch
and the endless tourist traps lies
the largest certiﬁed organic Asian
pear orchard on the East Coast?
It’s deﬁnitely worth a visit. What a fabulous
discovery———an internationally acclaimed and
recognized grower of gourmet foods only a few
miles down the road.

In 1990, Paul and YoungSuk Estabrook ar-
rived in Lexington from New Hampshire with their
two children and with ﬁve hundred Asian pear
trees in the back of a truck to start Virginia Gold
Orchards. The farm since has grown to include
over 4000 trees on twenty acres, but it remains a
family business.

Asian pears originated in western China,
spreading east to Japan and Korea (where Paul
first met YoungSuk when he traveled there on
business in 1972) and later was introduced to
the United States in 1850 by Chinese laborers in
California. Paul’s son, also named Paul, ex-
plained to me the common misconception people
have, believing the fruit to be a cross between
an apple and a pear. Asian pears are widely
known for their unique texture and sweetness
and are best eaten chilled and sliced. While many
fruits remain fresh for only a few days, Asian
pears will last for up to four months in the refrig-
erator.

Virginia Gold Orchards sells fourteen differ-
ent varieties of the fruit, from the Shinseiki (a
popular yellow fruit with sweet, crisp, juicy white
ﬂesh) to the best-known 20“' Century variety,

Doudou N’Diaye Rose comes to Lenfest

A

THE DISH
CARoLYNDU1=1=Y‘05

dripping with the sweet taste of autumn. My
favorite was the Atago variety, with orange rus-
set skin and a sweetness that is balanced with
the perfect amount of tartness. Under expert
hybridist YoungSuk’s careful hand, the orchard
also grows over twenty experimental varieties,
and they hope that at least one
will be ready for the public soon.
Try one of the Estabrooks’ vari-
eties and you’ll never go back
to plain old apples again. Gour-
met Asian pears are the ﬁne wines of the pro-
duce industry, their tastes and textures varying
dramatically from fruit to fruit.

The Estabrooks are committed to maintain-
ing the gourmet quality of their fruit (the orchard
was even featured in the 1999 edition of Gour-
met Magazine). But they also go to great
lengths to uphold the standards that make their
Asian pears “certiﬁed organic.” Paul stressed
the amount of “tender loving care” that each
tree and fruit receives. Father, mother, and son
comprise the entire labor force of the farm to
ensure the fragile harvest is handled delicately
and carefully, and every Asian pear is hand-
picked and inspected three or four times before
it is packaged for shipping. He explained the
importance of not using pesticides or fungicides
on the trees, wondering why anyone would eat
a piece of fresh fruit covered in poison. But
most orchards do in fact spray their trees with
chemicals in order to ensure a higher yield. By
growing his fruit organically without the use of
these harmful products, Paul sacriﬁces 25-50%
of his crop to insects and disease each year. To
the Estabrook family, though, the health ben-
eﬁts and the exceptional quality of the fruit are
well worth the extra effort. A

If you’re interested in purchasing Asian
pears, check out the orchard’s website at

&L1FE

V1sitV1rginia Gold Orchards, best—kept

MBGANMORGAN
ARlS&LIPEED1TOR

E¢lAl[:NDRGMWll@MUH1l

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

‘__.-. . I
\



Rocbrie secret

OTO URTBY IRGINIA

JUICY. YoungSuk Estabrook holds one of the delicious Asian Pears that  Gold Orchards grows each
year. The farm, only a few minutes south on Route 11 from Lexington is certainly worth a trip.

www.virginiagoldorchard.com. Buy a box for
yourself, or keep the holidays in mind. . .your par-
ents would love a box of delicious, gourmet, fresh
fruit grown right here in Lexington. The
Estabrooks would prefer you place an order
online, but you are also welcome to stop by the
orchard any day from 10 am to 5 pm. Prices can be
found on the website. Virginia Gold Orchard also
sells homemade honey, Asian pear marmalade and
jelly, and homemade Asian tea syrup that I have
been told works wonders as a cold remedy.

Paul’s son admitted that they “like being the
little secret of Rockbridge County. It’s rewarding
that people come from so far away to visit and
buy our fruit, and then keep coming back.” Vir-
ginia Gold Orchards has made quite a name for
itself in only thirteen years, especially consider-
ing they do no advertising and rely primarily on
word-of-mouth and people’s own curiosity. I
couldn’t keep their secret safe for long
though...stop by and try some Asian pears and
you won’t be able to keep it a secret either.

Mock Convention

LD CHARDS

BY KATHERINE SHELL
STAFFWRITER

Doudou N’Diaye Rose
and the Drummers of West
Africa will travel from Dakar,
Senegal to perform in Lexing-
ton/at the Lenfest Center on
Sunday, November 16, 2003 at
7:00p.m.

Doudou N’Diaye Rose
and the Drummers are
known world-wide as the
most famous sabar drum-
mers in the world. The
sabar drum is the most
common instrument of
Senegal, and is used at a
variety of events such as
family gatherings, Catholic
church meetings and po-
litical rallies. It is played
in celebration of major
events.

Doudou Ndiaye Rose
and his thirty eight chil-
dren are all accomplished

sabar drummers. Indeed,
Rose’s drumming company
consist entirely of his fam-
ily members, and at times
contains up to one hundred
of his children and grand-
children.

For the past fifteen
years, Rose has traveled all
over the world, conducting
various companies and
performing concerts in
various countries. He has
collaborated with famous
musicians and helped com-
posed songs with various
artists. Over the years, he
has conducted many in-
strumental groups and led
concerts on stages across
the world.

Recently, his group has
traveled the world with their
beautiful, rhythmic songs
and has played in various
capitals of the world. Last
May, they were the opening

act of the Fiftieth Annual
Cannes Film Festival.
Tickets will be on sale
next week from Monday to Fri-
day, noon to four, at the
Lenfest Center Box Office or
can be purchased or reserved

over the phone by calling 45 8-
8000. Tickets will also be
available two hours prior to
the concert. Tickets are lim-
ited.

Please call the Lenfest
Center for more information.

*0¢¢¢¢¢¢<l>¢<l><l>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢%

in an

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie

Work for the Phi.

fall gala approaches

BY STEVE LAMB
STAFF WRITER

This Friday, November the
14"‘, Mock-Con will host a Gala
to kickoff the beginning of
what guarantees to be yet an-
other successful Washington
and Lee Convention.

The event will be Black Tie;
however ladies are not required
to wear white dresses as rumors
claim TheGalawilltakeplacein
Evans Hall from 8:30pm to
12:00am and will feature the
swing and jazz tunes of Big Ray
and the Kool Kats.

One of the chief aims of the
Gala is to help raise funds for
the Convention in January. Gala
packages, which include two
tickets to the Gala, two T—shjrts,
two posters, and two wine

glasses, will be sold in the Com-
mons for $60 starting Monday
and ending Thursday.

The Gala will also involve
an auction where party—goers
will have the opportunity to win
gift—certif1cates to shops and
restaurants around town (The
Southern Inn and Pumpkin
Seeds among others) as well as
gift baskets (such as a Royal
Cup Coffee Gift Basket). In
terms of dinner, plan on dining
at Fraternities prior to the
dance; freshman should re-
ceive invitations for dinners
starting next week.

The Mock Convention
Gala promises to be one of the
most enjoyable social events
of the year, so ﬁnd a date and
get ready for this patriotic

P311)’-

Meetings every Monday at
5:15 p.m. in University
Commons Room 341.

international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
www.ti1'p|enine.org

guarantee
or your money back“

Submit
your
anonymous

University
Cleaners

THE CLEANEST or THE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING
LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Prepare for the Andi mod HIGAI
with I-(aplm item on campus. at WKLII

classes beget Jmuary 10. 
Enron   October 3131' and receive
on-vllne  Review FREE!

Quick Hits

WI.:I1I.|I.»%rhTest..Prs9

KAPLAN

Mn-nirsi
itaptest.eom/rimmed

«min a nzixmsmi ummmt-gnu Inna’:-sans nhumma
Manual  .

 -an suutred ciusaus or manna sessions.
eamplama all aeiieduted mas. mdmyour 
8!’ your score uoesnft lmome an was any firm your
icuplan diagnostic at a paler afiiclal meat same. you
can rmawtmepeat ourpzwm forttaemgaiza
£134!  af ymJr‘t,l£.5!5lT.ll.'e5.~. ‘la in aélgihle -vb: taxis: 
we must be emiéad at itaiilarrs its claseremi.
#.I.£orl¢.'i$., 98! mllm attlataaﬁo lh iatldltitllit. Numm
girasam an arms:  ar;:,w- scan:  an-.1
M:lm‘llt‘yo'al! mum: maomaismmin W 

Great Service
First—Rate Quality

to

phi@wlu.edu

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

 

PAGE 8

THE El

 

MEGANMORGAN
AR'IS&l.lFEEDlIOR
 m

ORD

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

Lexington Police Department ‘does their job’

BY ]i=.B BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

The following sentence is one of the most
important ones you will ever read. If you are
stopped by an officer of the law, do exactly as he
says. Common sense, I know. But, I frequently
saw people ignore police officers just a few days
ago during my ride-along with the Lexington Po-
lice Department. The experience proved enlight-
ening.

The officers in the Lexington Police Depart-
ment aren’t as awful as they are sometimes por-
trayed. In my experience, they were nice guys with
a tough job to do. I also found that for the police to
stop someone, the exhibited behavior had to be
egregious. Individuals who were stopped by the
police during my time in the right seat were dis-
playing extremely unsafe or disruptive behavior.
Ofﬁcers gave people the benefit of the doubt on
more than one occasion.

Here are just a few stories from my incredible
experience. ‘

One couple was pulled over after swerving
on Nelson Street. The ofﬁcer administered all of
the standard DUI tests, including the Alcosensor.

This machine is the ﬁeld test, which you should
never refuse. The results are not admissible in
court and blowing over the legal lirriit of .08 can
only buy you time (during which your BAC is
likely to go down) while you are transported to
the jail for another test. The test beneﬁted this
driver in another way. She blew under the legal
limit, but was still not “safe” to drive. Rather than
force the couple to walk back to their hotel, the
officers would have happily driven their car home
for them. Because I was there, I was asked to
drive them.

Many residents of Lexington believe that
the police target them. The Veemies are con-
vinced that W&Lers get away with murder. The
townies think that Veemies can do whatever they
please. The law students are convinced that
undergrads have all of the fun without any re-
percussions. Since everyone believes they are
being targeted, the police department probably
does its job well. In reality everyone receives
equal treatment.

Take, for example, a group of law students who
were hosting a Halloween party on Friday night. The
police followed exactly the same procedure they use
to shutdown our panies. When a noise complaint

Touiusr TRAP

came in (from the nursing—home across the street), the .

police issued a warning: if they had to return, the
party would be shut down. Sure enough, another
complaint came in and the party was over. As the
host was leading his classmates out of his house he
made a surprising

happily transported the group to their houses just
outside of town.

The Lexington Police Department is made up
of some really great guys. I promise you that if
you make the effort to get to know them, they’ll

help you out.

comment. He said,
“everybody out,
we’re not under-
graduates. We don’t
get special privi-
leges.” Likeus mea-
sly little undergrads,
the law students are
convinced that the
police target them.
Several stu-
dents witnessed
more evidence of
the Lex—Po’s kind-
ness after Traveller
had stopped for the evening. We were driving down
Jefferson Street only to find a large group of stu-
dents who had gathered at the bench at the War
Memorial in hopes of a ride. The Lex—Po came to
the rescue. Ofﬁcer Smith and Sergeant Miller both

Saturday afternoons in the

 

They want to be our
friends. Please, let
them. Anytime you get
the chance to stop and
talk to a police officer,
just do it. They are a
hard working bunch of
guys who care a lot
about each of us. After
my ride-along, I have
come to realize that the
police truly aren’t as bad
as we sometimes make
them out to be. I prom-
ise.

By the way, because of the ride—along, I am
now seriously considering a career in law enforce-
ment.

Please let me know what you think about the
Lexington Police Department at brooksj @wlu.edu.

Bring back future trophy wives club

Would that the Future

JEE Bxooxs Tm RING-TUMPHI

ROAR. It might surprise many students that dinosaurs are roaming the
mountians  a few rriiles from Lexington. Glasgow, Va. is home to many
ancient creatures like this one that the cowboy has captured. A visit to this
community  down Interstate 8 1 will introduce tourists to prehistoric
creatures. Calling itself “the town that time forgot,” Glasgow is worth a trip
to see the many dinos. While you are in that neck-of—th-woods, be sure to
check out the many exciting attractions in nearby Natural Bridge.

Trophy Wives Club (FTWC)
had been more than a cruel
joke. If there’s one thing the
women of W&L need, it’s a
support organization to
assist them in finding,
choosing
a n d
attracting
the proper '
mate. The
F'I‘WC would fill a gaping
hole in W&L student
services.

The average W&L co-ed
is, no doubt, completely
clueless about where to begin
ﬁnding a husband. Should
the doe-eyed woman looking
to land a man hang out at
fraternity parties or suck
down libations in the Palms?
Maybe she would have more
luck joining the Colonnade
Club or batting her eyes at
passers-by in the Co—op? How
about endlessly climbing the
Stairmaster in the Fitness
Center or donning her
sundress and spending

  

stands at Wﬂson Field?
Naturally, how is a girl
expected to know where to
begin ﬁnding a husband, let
alone narrow her search to
the most fruitful avenues?
This is where the

 AISLE" FIWC can help.
BREIT KIRWAN ‘O4

"""""""""""""""""""""""" N the campus for

The Club had
planned to scour

the most eligible bachelors
and make these men available
to interested women in one,
easy to access and
understand location. Perhaps
the FTWC could publish a
catalogue or maintain a
website with photos,
commentary and a running
estimate the bachelors’ net
worth and anticipated
inheritance.

A well-managed and
effective FTWC could
liberate W&L’s women from
shadowy fraternity
basements and the noisy Co-
op. No doubt, campus rates
of venereal disease and

sexual assault would looks (one must be
decrease since Lady Generals concerned with the children),
would no longer feel career and affability wouldbe

obligated to chain
themselves to a can of Natty
in fiat basements. As an aside,
the effects would be negative
for the campus fashion police
since campus co-eds would
be locked in their rooms
pouring over the FTWC
facebook rather than
attempting to attract the
wandering eye of frat guys
with Lilly prints.

In re: choosing a suitable
husband, the FTWC could
prove useful in providing
curious young ladies with
criteria to choose a husband.
For example, while Beirut
prowess may set one apart at
off-campus parties, it should
hardly be decisive in
choosing one’s life partner.
An FTWC-provided
checklist would clarify for
uncertain schoolgirls what to
really look for in a mate. Net
worth and inheritance would,
no doubt, top the list, but

highlighted above less
important factors such as
fraternity affiliation and
whether one is Southern or
not. (Let’s be honest, for
trophy wives, money matters
and no one cares what side
of the Mason-Dixon line one
was born on.)

Finally, the FTWC would
prove to be virtually invaluable
in helping hopeful young girls
attract the man they have
chosen. Currently, an
ambitious lass has only so
many avenues to pursue
before she gains an unsavory
reputation. The FIW C would
makeavailabletoW&Lwonien
more options by hosting
receptions and arranging dates
between desirable suitors and
desiring darnsels.

All in all, the organizers
of the FTWC should really
reconsider making the Future
Trophy Wives Club more
than just a prank.

Muslims find Ramadan difficult to obey in Lexington

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

Imagine if only a hand-full
of people around you celebrated
Christmas. For example,thinkof
a world in which no one cared
about Christmas Weekend or
sang Christmas carols. Think of
a place where not only did no one
ride Christmas trees down the
stairs but they didn’t even hang
up decorations. Think of not
going home for mom’s turkey,
fudge or Christmas cookies.

Currently, Muslim’s across

the world are celebrating
Rarnadan—one of the two major
holidays of the Muslim faith.
Most people on our campus are
probably oblivious to Ramadan
and most of us probably don’t
even known what Rarriadan re-
ally is. To find out more, I sat
down with Elham Moharrinied, to
find out more about this holiday.

Elham is currently a sopho-
more working toward a Computer
Science major. Her parents are
from Eritrea, a country that was
part of Ethiopia until 1993, but
she was born in Sudan. Living in

Alexandria, Virginia, for the last
twelve years, Elham and her fam-
ily have been active members of
the Muslim community and of a
local Mosque.

Ramadan is celebrated in the
ninth lunar month of every year-
this year, October 27 through No-
vember 27. During this time, cel-
ebrators fast from sun up to sun
down. The Muslim day is marked
by ﬁve prayers, and a person can
eat before the first Morning Prayer.
Elham points out that during
Ramadan “you are basically cut-

and the ﬁnal prayer, people join
together in feasts of celebration.

Since the lunar calendar
doesn’t line up directly with the
calendar in popular use today, the
dates of Ramadan can change
from year to year. Elham notes
that if Ramadan lands during the
summer months, fasting becomes
much more difficult—the sun
comes up earlier and does down
later.

A celebration of faith, Mus-
lims during Ramadan strive to live
a holy life through not cheating,
stealing, or lying and concentrat-

ing more on their religious life
than their daily struggles. The
end of Ramadan is marked by a
huge three day party, known as
the Eid. When she lived in Alex-
andria, Elham celebrated her faith
with a large circle of her family
and friends and she remembers
the Eid quite fondly; she had to
miss it last year because Ramadan
ended during finals week, but
hopefully she will be able to at-
tend this year during Thanksgiv-
ing break.

To help explain the impor-
tance of Ramadan to Muslims,

Elham suggests that “[to us]
Ramadan is like your Christmas.”
Since there is no Mosque in Lex-
ington, and the closest one is in
Roanoke, Ramadan can almost
slip people by. Muslim students
at W&L face an added challenge
of celebrating when no one else
even seems to notice. Still, Elham
works to embrace her Muslim
identity and remember the true
meanings of Ramadan. So, if you
see her or any of the other Mus-
lim students or faculty on cam-
pus, wish them all a splendid and
happy Ramadan!

ting out lunch.” After sun down

“'13

Q Why do girls look so much better in frat base-
ments than they do the next morning?

 

(1) Walking into the first ﬂoor men’s room in
Robinson Hall has been the most intense experi-
ence of my time at W&L. They should serve
sarsparilla.

(1) Ashley Sims, marry us. Please!

(I) TFC: Rush is almost over, do you really think
you are tough enough to pledge KA?

(1) Where's Waldo or candy canes: The verdict is
still out.

(1) Although she may not be Ms. Right, she’ll do
Right Now.

Q Does a one-legged duck swim in a circle?

Q Can we please spring for some Charmin extra
soft toilet tissue in the freshmen dorms? That little
extra sofmess goes along way.

Q Thanks to the angels who fold other people’s
laundry in the freshmen dorms, instead of dumping
it in a pile like the rest of you inconsiderate jerks.

Q Would the freshman who used the HV line on
Helen Hughes please reveal himself? I’d like to bid
him.

Q Next time the Phi covers the men’s swim meet,
could the photographer get a picture of the men’s
team? The VMI meet was scored for the men only,
you know.

Q For any guy who doesn’t have a date to the
Mock Con Gala: You’re about to experience that
wonderful W&L tradition, the Snap Date. I guaran-
tee that a few girls you know aren’t taken yet. So
find them and ask one. She’ll be grateﬁil.

Q More on the Gala: Tickets are available all this
week in the Commons from 10-3.

Q Future Trophy WlVeS ! ?! If it’s a joke, it’s really
funny; if not, please join me in administering a well-
deserved slap.

Q Giants of Science face paint: creepy or enter-
taining? Discuss among yourselves.

Q The next person who tries to sneak alcohol
into a Traveller van after being told to leave it be-
hind will be reported to the administration

Q Why is the Theta house decorated for Christ-
mas before Thanksgiving?

Q To: Physical Plant

Re: Light in the Old SPE House

Turn off that *&"$(#light, already! How much
electricity has been wasted?

Q Carving pumpkins is for elementary school-
children, not the Cadavers.

Q The most exciting part of any J asiewicz class
is, hands-down, the roll call.

Q I dont’ care what Texans think about their high
school football. I’d put the best teams in northeast
Ohio, who play in the ice, snow and rain, up against
any team from the Lone Star State.

Q Clip-on bow ties are no more permissable than
clip—on neckties. They both should be reserved for
pre-teens.

Q Why doesn’t W&L have a mascot?

(I) This past week was the 483rd anniversary of
the Stockholm Bloodbath. Doesn’t that strike you
as a bit of an oxymoron— something interesting
happening in milquetoast Sweden?

Q Attention SRC: Hire fewer tour guides. Two
per time is enough.

Q Today is Rutgers’ 237th anniversary.

Q Freshmen are still wondering: What did Phil
Walotski do to become the campus pariah?

Q Caitlin Mitchel, ‘05L, derives, in a
Sarnsonesque matter, power from her hair.

Q Kudos to all the sorority women for throwing
great forrnals this weekend.

Q Shout out to Weebs.

Q News from the Weekly World News: President
Bush is planning to cancel February.

Q Does “Jesse’s Girl” have to played at every
fraternity party on campus?

Q Mt. Cook is the highest point in New Zealand.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phz'@wlu.edu.

 

