 

  

-1

‘F-37
_R

 
    

I‘

 

8. 75 5
55?

i/./0,;
M0. 2.9.

 

Wow, THESE KIDS IS SMART!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
IRIN G-T U M

lire student voice of Washington and Lee Unii2enizy5ince1897

 

/0 6 2 Z
   VOLUl4E€‘VH»N0s 
TUr.sDAY,MArcH9,2OO4

Congratulations to Phi Beta Kappa inductees Vanessa Adams, Adam Allogramento,
Jennifer Backe, Anna Bagwell, Jessica Bennett, Amy Blakeway, Aniesa Bosch, Carolyn
Duffy, Lauren Egbert, Jeremy, Rory Gray, Miri Lim, Erin Lutkewitte, Seth Martin,
Matthew McDermott, Ian Mcﬂroy, Chad Meredith, Matthew Nelson, Eric Ritter, Vir-
ginia Snider, Maria Syska, Marty Tompkins, Jamie T oso, and Daniel Vos, Patricia
Ballantyne, Wesley Bell, Richard Busby, Steve Chambers, Rachel Chisolm, Peter
Djalaliev, Benjamin Hicks, Marriott Horton, Leila Kia, Erik Kiewiet de J onge, Robyn
Konkel, George Lozowski, Kelley Magill, Jeremiah McW1l1iarns, Rebecca Merritt, Marisa
Meyer, Alexandra Schaerrer, Tina Shen, Susan Somers, Carlos Spaht , Vicky Stanham,
Tom Trentrnan, and Matt Yohe. Mark C. Taylor of Williams College spoke.

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Hazing allegations have plagued the Washington and
Lee fraternity system this year.

Currently, four houses face Interfraternity Council hear-
ings in light of such allegations, according to Dean of Stu-
dents Dawn Watkins.

“It’s been a tough winter for the fraternity system in terms
of pledgeship,” said IFC Advisor Matt Jacobs.

According to Jacobs, more minor complaints such as pro-
fessors’ concerns over a student’s academic
performance do not necessarily warrant an
IFC investigation. Any allegations that
meet the criteria of hazing as deﬁned in the
student handbook do warrant inquiries.

vice to the freshman and the house be-
cause, if the allegations are not true, then we have an opportu-
nity to clear the house,” said Dean Watkins.

The University’s first concern is to protect the safety of its
students, with the second major area of concem being to protect
the Greek system. When an allegation is made against a ﬁater-
nity, that house’s new member education program is suspended
for the duration of an investigation or pending an IFC hearing.

“Most of these cases have resulted from a ﬂood of com-
plaints,” said IFC President Brian Castleberry, “stories come
from several different areas and they corroborate each other.”

“This is the kind of stuff that gets houses shut down and
we don’t want to see that happen,” said Watkins, who said
she attributes the increase of allegations to a snowball effect.

Bourbonsales high
at local ABC store

 

BY KAEIA HARMON M A -  I
,.,.W,....,. I 2003 Jim Beam sales
You can’t be a Washington and  i 
I/ee student without making at least I
one trip to the local Alcohol Bev-

erage Control store.

 

New member education programs are not suspended un-
less a fraternity is facing an IFC hearing, though not all allega-
tions require investigations. “If information is lucid and clear,
it can go straight to a hearing,” said Castleberry.

If information is not clear and an investigation is required,
“Dean Leonard and the security office are an investigative
team,” Brian Castleberry said.

This is the kind of stuff that
gets houses shut down and we
don’t want to see that happen

Allegations of hazing halt four
‘new member education periods’

In an effort to clarify inaccurate campuswide speculation,
The Ring-tum Phi contacted members of all fourteen fraterni-
ties and asked whether or not their new membership education
period had been suspended by the University. Suspension in
no way indicates guilt.

Members of the following fraternities said that their new
member education programs have been suspended by the Uni-
versity: Beta Theta Pi, SigrnaAlpha Epsilon and Phi Gamma Delta

Members of the following fraternities said their new member
educationprogramsaneongoing: KappaAlpha, SigmaChi,Lambda
Chi Alpha, Pi KappaAlpha, Chi Psi, Phi Kappa Psi, Kappa Sigma
and Pi Kappa Phi.

According to Phi Delta Theta President
Brian Becker, the leadership of his fratemity
ended their new member education program
due to the low midterm grades of their

“If I get a call from a parent, faculty DEANDAWN W/ATKINS pledges. “It was an internal decision not
member or a concerned student and we based on University action,” Becker said,
don’t investigate, we are doing a disser— DEAN OFSWDENYS “we decided to end it.”

One fraternity chose not to comment cit-
ing concerns about the content of this article.

An investigation into allegations made against Chi Psi
cleared that fraternity of any wrongdoing.

Not all new member education violations involve hazing
allegations. Underground pledges, for example, are also
pledgeship violations, said Castleberry.

The IFC hopes to hear pending cases as soon as possible.

In addition to the four fraternities currently facing University
investigations or hearings, two other Washington and Lee chap-
ters have been found to not be in compliance with Nationals’ rules.
According to Jacobs, Phi Delta Theta has a national alcohol-free
housing policy and the issue recently “came to a 

Jacobs said that University officials have been trying to
work with this chapter of Phi Delta Theta to be in compliance
with its national policy. Jacobs emphasized that this action
was unrelated to any hazing situation.

Sigma Nu is not being investigated by the University, “we
haven’t been accused by the University,” said President Mike
Gaico, “there is simply a matter between us and nationals that we
have discussed.”

Committee investigates need
for university chaplain, boosts to religious life

I

Located on Nelson Street, the
local ABC store is a common last
stop before the weekend parties
begin. But what are the party
goers buying? Store manager
Buddy Johnson said that he could
not tell us what sells the most
among W&L students because
“Sometimes its hard to tell who’s
a student and who’s not.”

However, 2003 records
show that the top brand sold
in the store is Jim Beam
Straight—Bourbon Whiskey
and that Jim Beam is the sec-
ond most popular brand sold
in the state following Jack
Daniel 7 black—Tennessee
Whiskey. Records also show
that the Lexington store ranks
third in sales in the Stauntonl
Waynesboro area.

, So whether it’s W&L stu-
dents or not, somebody in Lex-
ington is drinking a lot of whis-
key.

 
   

Mar.

    

 

The graphic above represents the montly sales of bottles
of Jim Beam whiskey at the Lexington ABC store.

   

June, ,rury,

   

    

DATA PROVIDED BY VIRGINIA ABGSTORE 140
IMAGE COURTESY ]lMBEAM.COM

BY KATHERINE SHELL
STAFF WRITER

In the spring of 2003, a group
appointed by Provost ‘Laurent
Boetsch began a study to explore the
possibilities of additional religious
life resources for Washington and
Lee’s campus. Students were asked
to participate in a survey “to see if
students had religious needs and if
they are being met,” said Meredith
McNabb, ’04 Law.

The survey is part of ongoing
research by the faculty and staff to
determine whether additional re-
sources are necessary to aid all of
Washington and Lee, including the
Law School, faculty and undergradu-
ate students.

After investigating various
other similar colleges, the group has
discovered numerous ways to accom-
modate any religious needs felt by
the W&L community. The group ap-
pointed by Provost Thomas Williams

has researched schools both our size
and nature. Possible additions in-
clude a non—denon1inational chaplain,
religious counseling and methods to
better “coordinate local resources
with students,” McNabb said.

The group in no way wishes to
see a specific religious affiliation for
W&L but instead wants to better un-
derstand what religious needs are not
being met by the University. A spe-
cific focus on minority faiths will be
coordinated to make sure that all reli-
gious denominations are accommo-
dated. 0

Once data from the survey has
been collected, focus groups will be
formed to learn more information
about the student opinion of reli-
gious life at Washington and Lee.
This spring, random groups of stu-
dents will be asked to join these fo-
cus groups.

The group was formed after the
Lilly Foundation donated money in
2002 to initiate “meaningful life
work.”

A committee was formed to explore
various aspects of religious life at W&L.
“The money will be used to facilitate the
discussion of religious life resources
among students, faculty and staff, mostly
the funding of experienced statisticians,
focus group leaders and, should the sur-
vey and focus groups warrant such, a
professional consultant on models for
managing religious life resources in
higher education,” said Professor
Alexandra Brown, chair of the commit-
tee.

Any possible changes at W&L
could be seen as early as next year.

Committee members are fully aware
of the possible consequences of further-
ing religious resources at W&L.

Andy Mendala, undergraduate rep-
resentative of the committee, said, “Per—
sonally, I am ambivalent to the whole
thing. I really think either W&L will com-
promise its secular position as a school
or the chaplain will be a ﬁgurehead.”
Committee members are prepared to in-
vestigate all effects before any changes
will take place.

INFOGRAPHIC BY KATIE HOWELL / 7heRi7zg-tum Phi

Newly elected student officers speak out about their plans

BY CALEY ANDERSON
OPINIONS EDITOR

Campus wide elections for Executive Committee and Stu-
dent Judicial Council officer elections are over, and after some
spirited campaigns, the 2004-05 EC President, Vice President,
and Secretary, as well as the SJ C Chair and Secretary, have been
elected. ‘

Victory in the race for EC President came after a week of close
runoffs. Current member Marie Trimble defeated Thomas Worthy
in the final runoff by six votes. Three rounds of voting for the
office were required. The ﬁeld was narrowed from five, then three
and ﬁnally two candidates.

In both the first and second runoff, Trimble and Worthy were
separated by only five votes.

Trimble attributes her victory to hard work and prior experi-
ence, though she by no means underestimated Worthy. .“I’m
very appreciative of the fact that Thomas and I had a clean, fair
election. I really respect Thomas, and I know that he’ll continue
to contribute to the W&L community in very positive way.”

Trimble said of her policy plans for next year, “I’m looking
forward to improving our policy concerning the recognition of
student organizations. I’d like to see the EC become more in-
volved with campus activities and organizations, and I think im-
proving the recognition process is a great first step. As far as the
Honor System is concerned, I’d like to continue the high stan-
dards that W&L demands.”

The position of Executive Committee Vice President was much

sought after, as well. The race was won by current junior class
representative, Cristin Nunez.

Nunez made a few comments following her victory. “ I
think I won the election because over the past three years
I’ve earned the trust and respect of my peers. I work hard at
what I do, and people know that. I ran a clean and honest
campaign, and my year of experience on the EC has taught
me that talking with people and more importantly, listening
to their concerns, is the best way to secure an election,” she
said.

She also released a platform that detailed plans to revise the
budget system. Among her proposed reforms is a system requir-
ing reports from campus organizations receiving money.

The race for EC Secretary was between undergraduate Jared
Harrison and current member Justin Arnold, a law student.
Arnold secured victory, and has big plans for his tenure next
year. ‘

Declaring “The entire Washington and Lee community
owns a share of the victory,” he went on to say “I am excited
about the things that we can accomplish next year. I would like
to see the Committee involve the Student Body in EC business
more, establish EC by—laws, be more deliberative 011 student
government policy, more vocal on student life issues and more
visible at campus events. I would also like to see the Committee
improve upon the Honor Orientation program and the budget
hearing process, as well as to coordinate a celebration of the
100th anniversary of students assuming the duty of adminis-
tering the Honor System through the Executive Committee of

the Student Body.”

He also complimented his opponent on running a “strong
and respectable” campaign and hoped that Harrison would
continue to contribute to the Washington and Lee commu-
nity.

The rece for Student Judicial Council Chariman. It was be-
tween two current members of the SJ C. Juniors Cameron Lord and
Maggie Hope both fought for votes. Hope ran on a platform of
reform with an understanding of the role of the SJ C.

Hope, who won the election, attributes her victory to get-
ting the message out that she brings a past knowledge of the SJC
that would help her in the office of chair. She conceded that the
election was a worrisome one for her, as she knew Lord would
run a strong race.

Speaking to the major issue of the election, she says, “a big
issue for the SJC right now is the punishment for DUIs and the
discrepancy between what the Board of Trustees wants and what
the SJC has been handing out. I think that issue will be resolved
this year and that the SJC will create a more consistent prece— ,
dence in these cases. I think it’s going to be a productive year
and I look forward to leading the SJ C into it.”

Running on a similar platform of balanced change and con-
sistency was J eb Brooks, ‘O5, who ran unopposed for the office
of SJ C Secretary. Brooks is also the current editor in chief of The
Ring-tum Phi.

Elections for class representatives to the Executive Commit-
tee and Student Judicial Council will be held on Monday, March
15.

 

- v

 

.,..-A 7‘, VA 

MAR I 0200‘!

an RlliGvT-ﬁt Pr-E

PAGE 2

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

NEWS

E-mail news briefs to phi@wlu.edu

 

Run for the Law scheduled for March 20

The third annual Run for the Law 5K walk and 10K run will be
held on Saturday, March 20. The run is sponsored by PILSA, the
Public Interest Law Students Association. PILSA is a non—proﬁt
group for law students interested in working in the public interest
sector. The proceeds from the run help provide summer fellow-
ships for students working in public service.

“Many of these jobs, such as working in Legal Aid, public
defense, environmental groups, and special organizations are
unpaid, so we provide students with fellowships,” said Brooke
Corby, the president of PILSA. The cost of the run is $20 per
participant and runners or walkers receive a t-shirt. The run is
usually mostly students from the University, but PILSA is encour-
aging residents of Rockbridge County to participate as well. “We
hope to have more than 100 people participate.

Corby said that last year, the group was able were able to give

several fellowships to students. While the Run is PILSA’s main
fundraiser, the group also partners with Domino’s for a fundraiser,
does a magazine sale, and sells Law School apparel. The Run
begins at the Rockbridge Country Public Library and finishes at
the Ruins, and covers the Chessie Trail and the Maury River
Bridge.
The first place female and first place male will receive a pair of
running shoes from Graden’s. In addition, participants will be en-
tered in a rafﬂe for items donated from Lexington businesses,
such as gift certificates.

Interested students can register by contacting Brooke Corby
at corbyb@wlu.edu or picking up a registration form.

Asian art discussion set for Tuesday during lunch

Tuesday, March 9 at noon, James Godfrey, past Maddux
Cowden Curator of Asian Art at the San Antonio Museum of Art,
will meet with students for a discussion and question/answer pe-
riod about careers in the arts. Bring your lunch and join him in the
Elrod Commons 216, the Women’s Resource room.

Christian Historian speaks Thursday

Washington and Lee University will present a lecture by Chris-
tian historian Mark Burrows, “Boundary of the Imagination: Rainer
Maria Rilke and the Poetic Quest for the Unknowable God,” on
Thursday, March 11, at 7:30 p.m. in Room 345 of the Elrod Univer-
sity Commons.

Burrows is a professor of the history of Christianity at Andover
Newton Theological School in Boston, Mass., and regularly
teaches courses on Dante’s Divine Comedy as well as seminars in
medieval mysticism and Reformation theology. An historian of
the medieval and early modern church, he specializes in the spiri-
tual life and mystical traditions of Christianity.

Burrows is the author of Jean Gerson and De Consolatione
Theologiae, and is currently working on a monograph devoted to
Bernard of Clairvaux’s reading of the Song of Songs, “The Tri-
umph of Desire.”

Professor releases book released March 1

Writer Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man has long been required
reading in English literature and Americanvhistory courses, but a
new book examining the country’s social, cultural, political, eco-
nomic and racial contradictions and how they impacted Ellison’s
work may also soon find its way on college reading lists.

The book, slated for release March 1 to coincide with the 90th
anniversary of Ellison’s birth, is edited by Lucas Morel, an Ellison
expert and associate professor of politics at Washington and Lee
University.

Ralph Ellison and the Raft of Hope: A Political Companion to
Invisible Man was conceived by Morel to help students today
better understand the state of racial relations and social mores in
the United States in the 1950s when Ellison was a struggling New
York writer probing racial attitudes in a still often segregated soci-
ety.

The book, contributed to and edited by Morel, is a collection
of new essays that examine how Ellison’s controversial and land-
mark l952 novel addressed the social, cultural, political, economic
and racial contradictions of America at that time.

Ellison believed it was the contradiction between America’s
“noble ideals and the actualities of our conduct” that inspired the
most profound literature - “the American novel at its best.”

Hidden Hero Patrick Hastings brings srvice

Hastings started the Owings initiative, plans to teach

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN AND
ERIN JULIUS
ASSISTANT ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR AND NEWS EDITOR

Patrick Hastings, a junior English major from Atlanta, Ga.,

chairs the Awareness Committee of the Nabor’s Service

League. He has incorporated community service into
pledgeship. Hastings worked with Kate Talbert, campus out-
reach co-chair on this project. Together, they met with the
Interfraternity Council and philanthropy chairs to set them up
with community agencies that are their adopted philanthropy.

Hastings commented on how it is sometimes tough to
get projects together and he is very pleased with involve-
ment. It is his hope that this project spreads to a year-long
commitment to an agency, service—based rush events and
mixers.

For the past year, Hastings has served as Secretary for All
Campus Events (ACE) board. He describes that role as diffi-
cult because of the many discussions about how ACE can
better serve the campus community. He addressed the need
for awareness of diversity of educational events. He would
like to see highly visible bi—weekly calendars produced that
bring information about what is going on around campus.

Hastings serves on the steering committee for the Cystic
Fibrosis Charity Ball. It is his goal “to organize an attractive
event.” This year's theme will be completely different from
last year's black—tie ball. Burr Datz’s blue grass band will
play at the cowboy—themed barn dance.

In the fall, Hastings participated in the Moustache Soci-

‘ ety. He said that the society was really inspired by the sup-

port of the University community.

Last summer, Hastings worked in Shakespeare & Com-
pany bookstore in Paris. He was working on a Global Stew-
ardship Grant with Professor Connor on the literary history
of the bookstore. Earnest Hemingway, Gertrude Stein, and
James Joyce were some of the writers that spent lots of time
at Shakespeare & Company.

to Greek life

Hero. Patrick Hastings has worked to make community service a vital
part of Washington and Lee by incorporating it into pledgship.

This summer, Hastings will work in Atlanta with the Reach
for Excellence teaching program for identifying talent among
Mississippi’s public school students. He worked there for
two summers in the past.

Hastings has always wanted to teach. After graduation,
he would like to teach English at a boarding school in the
Northeast and coach soccer.

Bakery opening soon, aims for ‘Blue Sky’

BY KAELA HARMON
STAFF WRITER

Lexington residents will
soon have a new place to go
for many of their baked good
needs.

Located on the corner of
Nelson and Lee Streets, the
owners of Blue Sky Bakery will
be opening their doors within
the next few weeks.

Blue Sky is a family busi-
ness, owned and operated
by Brenda and Mike Gregg
and Mike's mother. The
Greggs moved to Lexington
in October with the goal of
opening a restaurant or bak-
ery.

According to Brenda
Gregg, they were looking for
a small town and they espe-
cially love college towns.
When they got here and saw
that Caroline’s was closing,
they realized that there was
a niche for a bakery and
went forward with that

idea. next two weeks. The soft

CODY GABBARD / THE R1NG—7z/MPH1
Yum, yum. The Blue Sky Bakery will open in a few Weeks, so students should look for the sign to come

down. Owners plan to have an extensive lunch and dessert menu.

indication that they are open bars, key lime bars and

  

 

Originally they had
planned to be open by now
but the construction took
much longer than expected.
Now they arelworking on op-
erating their industrial size
oven and perfecting their reci-
pes.

Brenda Gregg said that
hopefully they will start with
a soft opening within the

opening will be without any
sort of big celebration or an-
nouncement.

The idea is that people just
walk by and see that they’re open
and then later they’ll have the
grand opening.and later they
hope to have a ribbon cutting
grand opening.

For now “when the sign
comes down” will be the best

for business.

When they do open, their
feature item will be fresh
homemade bread but they will
also have a wide rage of past-
ries and sandwiches.

They will have home-‘

made soups daily for their
lunch menu and they will also
be making a variety of des-
sert squares including pecan

cheesecake squares.

In addition to homemade
baked goods, Brenda Gregg
is happy to boast of the com-
fortable, home—like atmo-

sphere that Blue Sky pro-

vides.

“Our goal is to make
people feel like you’re in our
home and enjoy our hospital-
1ty.

In an effort to bring you the highest quality and most balanced
content possible, 772eRing-tum P/ai was forced to delay printing by
one day.

We are sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused our
readers, subscribers and advertisers.

Celebrate Spring Time
Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day

Brides ~ Graduation
witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(54o)264oo63
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements
Certified through VA Board of Nursing
13 "Years Experience

FORALL OF YOUR POST FANCY DRESS NEEDS:

University

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

Cleaners  

 

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterationﬂ

Remember to
Vote on Monday, March 15 for
Class Representatives to EC & SJC

students.
Positions available in

- News

- Sports

_ Lzfe

- Business oﬂice

HELP WANTED

The Ring-tum Phi seeks staff writers, business
officers, photographers and all other interested

Anyone interested, please inquire at

phi@wlu.edu
(540) 460-1274

 

In’

R

 

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2904

S "lHERH\'G-TUMPHI

TAFF*

)lTORIAL

raised.

IIl6I1tS .

to 18.

Return the drinking age to 18

Fancy Drunk, as it so affectionately
termed by many of the faculty, provides
a particularly potent yearly reminder of
the wrong-headedness of the national
 age of 21.

The chief aim of the 1984 law that

- threatened states with the loss of federal
highway funds if they refused to raise
their minimum drinking age from 18 to
21 was to reduce drunken driving deaths
and injuries. Although the number of
drunken driving incidents has dropped
dramatically among this age group (as it
has among all age groups), many schol-
ars point out that the decline began in
1980, long before the national minimum
drinking age was raised. Moreover, many
other factors, such as airbags, increased
seat belt use, lower speed limits, and safer
automobiles, are believed to have had a
greater impact than a higher drinking age.

As is all too often the case, though,
the govemment’s well-intentioned plan
has turned out to have done more harm
than good. Raising the drinking age has
directly led to a terrible increase in ir-
responsible and harmful drinking among
youth. More students report vomiting
after drinking, missing class, lower
grades and ﬁghting while drinking than
ever did before the drinking age was

Today, rather than having the oppor-
tunity to learn and practice healthy and
measured alcohol consumption in safe,
mentored environments, young people
have their first tastes of the “forbidden
fruit” in unsupervised, unsafe environ-

A better policy would be to increase
punishments for unsafe drinking and law-
breaking while returning the drinking age

Prohibition did not work for the gen-
eral population during the l850’s and
l920’s and has proven to be an unmiti-
gated disaster since 1987. It’s time to
admit our mistake and return the mini-
mal drinking age to 18.

 

no Rim-r‘z;tzr Praia

  

CAIEYANDHGON
OPINIOl\EFDll0R

FMAr;ANnrmort@rmmU

PINIONS

te of the Week

“I thinkAmold’s off to a great start.”

-Ex—Ca]ifomia Governor Gray Davis

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor

Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Asst. Cireulation Dir
Distribution Din

  

1. =  "="v’

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Wass

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderman
Cody Gabbard

John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Arness
Aubrey Miner

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Stuart Presnell
Rob Rain
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Vrrginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

PAGE 3

Kerry: evolving candidate, not wishy washy

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF senalegav

THE NEXT PRESIDENT? Seen here working in the Senate, John Kerry may be the best choice for the nation in the 2004 election, despite the efforts of Bush’s campaign.

Ed Gillespie and Karl Rove have a plan for
this election. John Kerry flip—flops on issues,
John Kerry is unprincipled, and the like. He was
historically against capital punishment, but
then came out in favor of it for convicted ter-
rorists. He voted for No Child Left Behind but
criticizes Mr. Bush for that too. He authorized
the use of force in Iraq but criticizes the way
the President has handled it. Mr. Bush, on the
other hand, is a steady, prin-
cipled, unwavering leader, the
type of man .most needed in un-
certain times like these.

That’s one way to look at it.
Here’s another: John Kerry is an astute man
who grasps the difficulties and complexity of
any given issue, and is willing to incorporate
new information into his ideas; therewith, his
ideas can change. He is an intellectual.

The capital punishment issue came up long
before this presidential election; in a reelec-
tion bid in 1996 he said he was not for capital
punishment for terrorists. Why? Because Kerry
was worried that if the United States had a
standing policy of capital punishment, other
nations would be discouraged from extraditing
terrorism suspects to the United States. He
feels that since September 11"‘, nations are
more ready to extradite suspects, and there-
fore the death penalty is not the deterrent it
once was. His main concern in both cases was
ensuring the greatest probability that other
nations would cooperate in investigations.

John Kerry voted for No Child Left Behind
after George Bush promised billions in educa-
tion funding in his State of the Union Address,
and promoted such wording in the bill as it worked
its way through Congress. John Kerry’s only mis-
take in this matter was trusting George Bush’s word.
When the chips fell and it came time to actually
appropriate funds in his budget, George Bush cut 6
billion dollars from his own education bill. Shame
on John Kerry for trusting George Bush!

 - ( fﬁFEE?T
» g GABE CHAI_>MAN ‘O6

Now Iraq. Essentially, Congress told the Presi-
dent: we trust you to neutralize what you have char-
acterized as an immediate and grave danger to the
United States. The President made the same case
to Congress that he made to the American people.
Now we know how exactly all this came about: ev-
ery shaky intelligence report was exaggerated to
the greatest possible degree, the White House set
up a special office in the Pentagon, whose sole
purpose was to assemble infor-
mation that would advance their
case, without regard to the
strength of the information. In-
telligence officers who came to
them with information contradicting their asser-
tions were told that their information wasn’t strong
enough and they needed to come back with more.

Don’t tell me, “Well, who cares? The world is
better off without Saddam Hussein.” What we
should care about is the, fact that this Administra-
tion made a conscious effort to manipulate infor-
mation to make a sensationalist case for war. Just
because we and our representatives bought it,
doesn’t mean that they were wrong. It means that
they put too much faith and credit in an ends-
justiﬁes-the-means administration. Men like John
Kerry won’t make that mistake again.

George Bush’s “with us or against us”
worldview is too simplistic for the world of today.
Paul O’Neill’s book, The Price of Loyalty, makes
two things clear: from the first day, this Adminis-
tration had two intentions: (l) to cut taxes, and (2)
to invade Iraq. All of the intervening events: Sep-
tember 11”‘, the recession, were just convenient
excuses to push an agenda that they intended
from the first. Consider this: our economy has been

out of recession for several quarters, but Bush .

continues to deficit—spend tremendously. These
tax cuts were not a salve meant to pull us out of
recession; if they were, he would have brought the
deficit under control as we pulled out of recession.

To say that George Bush’s policies are in-
novative would be to say that they adapt to

changing conditions. If that’s so, why hasn’t
he changed the undertaxing and overspend-
ing that is causing our deficit? The deficit is
really just a “future tax”: a tax on people like
you and me. We’re going to be paying back
the I.O.U’s Bush has taken out, long after he’s
retired comfortably.

I don’t like watching George Bush talk. It
makes me realize that he doesn’t understand
the nuances of a situation. Like when he tells
us that the economic growth (in terms of GDP)
the nation is experiencing will invariably lead
to-new jobs. There is a new dynamic in our
economy, one that George Bush does not un-
derstand. We have the
outsourcing of jobs overseas, and the hiring
of temporary workers who can be fired and
hired to match demand exactly from month to
month. Executives are concerned right now
with pushing up stock prices, and to do this
they are widening profit margins by squeez-
ing maximum productivity out of their existing
labor forces. The Bureau of Economic Analy-
sis has found that the profit share of corpo-
rate income as increased at the expense of
labor’s share. This shouldn’t be surprising,
considering who can afford millions of shares
of stock.

George doesn’t understand our new
economy and doesn’t understand America’s
place in the world. I want somebody who has
doubted the rectitude of America’s political
and cultural domination. I want somebody to
produce an Attorney General who will nail
Kenneth Lay’s ass to the wall. I want some-
body to have the courage to tell Americans
that we can’t sustain your level of consump-
tion. You can’t drive gargantuan SUVs forever.
Not even for much longer. I want someone to
say that the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is
worth more to the world than $1.75 gasoline
for your Hummer H2. John Kerry will do all
these things, and we’ll be stronger for it.

Martha guilty, but bigger ﬁsh remain for federal government

  
    

simultaneous ~

This past week, a federal jury found Martha Stewart guilty of
conspiracy, two separate counts of making false statements, and ob-
struction ofjustice. This decision marks the highest—profile individual
that has been convicted in the recent government crackdown on cor-
rupted business practices. Martha Stewart, who’s been the target of
focused media coverage over the past few months as a result of her
trial, has certainly been served justice, but I find it dismaying that the
Federal government has been unable to secure the convictions of the
bigger criminals in the world of white collar corruption.

What about the former Tyco executives, who still
stand accused of Grand Larceny? What about MCI
Worldcom? Or Merrill Lynch? Or what about the
one that started it all— Enron? Kenneth Lay, ex—CEO
of Enron, walks around even today as a free man.
The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the majority of these 21st cen-
tury robber barons remain unpunished. Martha Stewart, who is guilty,
of course, was nevertheless more than likely targeted by the govern-
ment because of her celebrity status (Stewart, who will likely serve
prison time, still faces a civil suit from the Securities and Exchange
Commission for a charge of insider trading). Yet, one instance of
insider trading, as well as the lies that came with it, are hardly the
greatest evil that has been wrought in corporate America in recent
history.

The Department of Justice needs to ramp up the efforts against
these financial miscreants. All Martha Stewart’s crime did was give
her an unfair advantage over other investors, whereas I think most
people believe that Kenneth Lay directly stole millions of dollars from
the people in the business world who trusted him most. Taking a tip

    

3' CALEY AND1~:Rs0r@§_

from a buddy in the company is one thing, creating a deliberate scheme
to rob your investors of (a LOT of) their hard-earned cash that results
in an economic disaster, unemployment without compensation for your
employees, and general financial chaos is another.

In politics, appearence is reality, and the fact that Kenneth Lay,
especially, has not been even charged with anything makes the Bush
administration look very bad, especially in an election year. I don’t
actually think that Lay has earned himself propriety with his generous
donations to the Bush campaigns, but it’s critical that the President

not allow that to be the appearence, especially when Lay,

 as well as most of his senior executives, are more than

likely extremely guilty.

I’m sure we all remember Enron— jobs lost, faith in
corporate America was tanked, women who worked for
Enron felt forced to pose for Playboy since all they had as job in-
surance was now—worthless Enron stock. The scary thing is that
this story has been repeated (albeit with less scandal similar to the
Playboy incident) several times over again, with, as mentioned be-
fore, Tyco, MCI Worldcom Merrill Lynch, and so forth.

To be sure, Martha’s crimes are not to be scoffed at. Besides
the obvious consequences, Martha Stewart Living, while not di-
rectly involved in the Imclone scandal that has now ensnared its
Chief Creative Officer, will likely see its own value plunge, since
Stewart’s image of domestic perfection is so closely linked to her
company. .

Yet we should not forget that there are still criminals out there,
some who have gone unprosecuted, and some who are still out there,
as yet successful at hiding their thievery from the law.

 

    

PAGE 4

’l§~iF.RN}’llldi’rl

  

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

INIONS

Forget Punxsutawney Phil, hold your leaders accountable

Imminent changes should force students to realize that fate of University rests in student government elections

Campus was sated with “political” cam-
paigning this week. Brightly-colored posters and
catchy slogans littered every doorway and bul-
letin board around campus. Candidates were all
smiles. Promises were made. Yet was this elec-
tion any more serious than the stereotypical stu-
dent council popularity contests held at most
schools?

After one election and two run—offs, one
of the “highest voter turnouts in
the history of Washington and
Lee” elected Executive Commit-
tee and Student Judicial Council
officers last week. Individual
class representatives will be chosen next

. Monday. I’m sure these students too will wear

their suits and bowties around campus, tack
up countless posters around our fair grounds,
and work every connection that they have in
order to be elected.

I ask the students of Washington and Lee—
the candidates, voters and those already
elected—to step back for a minute to think be-
fore they move into this second stage of the elec_—
tion. What is it that this campus really wants?
What is it that this campus really needs? Who
are the leaders that can provide these wants and
needs?

In a recent editorial by one of our neighbor
school’s newspaper columnists, their student
council election was compared to Groundhog
Day. Preston Lloyd wrote in University of
Virginia’s The Cavalier Daily, “To many stu-
dents, Student Council elections are like
Groundhog Day, where the entire nation focuses
the media spotlight—even if ever so brieﬂy—
on a rodent in a small Pennsylvania town in

Letters to the Editor

Kim/an’s article is itself more
offensive than “Monologues”

Dear Editor,

I would like to know the rationale for reprint-
ing Brett Kirwan’s two-year—old editorial on a pre-
vious production of “The Vagina Monologues.”

It was, after all, inﬂamed and inaccurate the first
time. It would not be particularly difﬁcult to con-
struct an intelligent critique of Eve Ensler’s play-
any student in English or Women’s Studies could
give Mr. Kirwan helpful advice. While I’m not a fan
of the work, though, I deeply admire the students
who staged it. As the editorial acknowledges, the
original production raised money for Project Hori-
zon; the recent version raised impressive sums for
multiple charities. Furthermore, through the “Mono-
logues,” undergraduates and law students collabo-
rated to provoke conversation about sexuality and
violence-—I’m grateful for their commitment. They
deserve better than this creaky old complaint.

I can suggest a fresh topic, if Mr. Kirwan has the
energy. His opinion piece quaintly protests “vulgar
exhibitionism” and the “rriiddle-school locker room”
mentality he found in the play. What does he think of
carnpusnoticetitles suchas“'I'l'I'l’1ES!!!!!!!!!l!!l!!!!!,
Tl'ITIES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!” so conveniently quoted on
the same page as his reprinted column?

Sincerely, A
Lesley Wheeler, Associate Professor of English

Dear Editor,

Two years ago Mr. Kirwan’s editorial piece, “
‘Monologues’ are vulgar concoction with political
purpose,” angered me because of its blatant and
frequent disregard for the facts of the play. Many
people discouraged me from responding because,
they argued, everybody knows Mr. Kirwan writes
from an extremely conservative viewpoint and in-
tentionally incites angry responses. This made
sense and fearful of being labeled a “femi-nazi,” I
kept my mouth shut but did not forget the piece.
Today I was shocked and appalled to see this ar-
ticle appear once again in the Ring-tum Phi.

Admittedly, Mr. Kirwan has a right to his opin-
ion but the abundant factual errors indicate irre-
sponsible journalism and beg the reader to ques-
tion if the author even saw the play when it was
performed here two years ago. For example, in the
first monologue “Hair” the speaker is not “driven
mad by [her husband’s] request” to shave her pu-
bic hair as Mr. Kirwan attests. Her choice to shave
her pubic hair was a compromise in her relation-
ship. She realizes that she does not like it and stops
the practice. The couple pursues marriage coun-
seling because of a desire to work through their
problems. This does not suggest a lack of sanity.
Later, in an attack on another one of the mono-
logues ‘”Ihe Flood”, Mr. Kirwan states, “Of course,
her male companion was to blame for her years of

SENIORMOMENT
KATIE]. HovELL ‘O4

order to symbolically predict the length of the
season. Likewise, at the University, students
are reminded that not only does [student gov-
ernment] exist, but that the leadership and
agenda of that organization is so important that
it demands the attention of students for a week
or more.”

W&L’s student government elections are
nearly identical to the University of Virginia sce-
nario described above. Voters
are one of three types: those
who wander past the voting
booth between classes and
choose the candidates with

the most name recognition, those whose room— ,

mate or fraternity brother is running and there-
fore are obligated to show up at the polling
place, and those who are genuinely interested
in the future of campus and believe that the
student leadership will greatly affect that fu-
ture, with the least amount of voters belonging
to this last group. I wonder, however, why this
is the case.

W&L has gone through some recogniz-
able changes in the past four years that I have
been a student here. A strict alcohol and drug
policy now stands in place of football game
“tailgates.” Limited beer can be “swiped
home” in the new Commons—center of Uni-
versity life—where free alcohol and drinking
games in the fraternity houses once ﬂowed
like water. The fate of Spring Term has come
into question not once, but twice. Two frater-
nities have been suspended. One has been
reinstated. Countless other changes have also
dramatically affected campus during the past
few years.

Students cannot think that the student lead-
ers of this campus do not play an important role in
these campus—altering decisions and events. Stu-
dent leadership played a role in every single one
of the events listed above. Most recently, current
Executive Committee President Helen Hughes
worked tirelessly along-
side faculty, adrriinistra—
tion and board members
to determine the fate of
the student-beloved
Spring Term. Other stu-
dent leaders have
worked just as hard as
she to see that the
changes affecting
W&L are not only
good for the board and
administration but also
for the lifeblood of the
University—the stu-
dents.

In saying all this, I
challenge the students
of Washington and Lee
to think before they vote
next week. Class repre-
sentatives to the student
government bodies on
campus are the people who will represent you to
the administration and faculty when more huge carn-
pus—changing events plague Lexington. Just be-
cause someone has name—recognition doesn’t mean
that they will make the best decisions when it comes
to the future of your institution.

These comments are not to say that the re-
cently elected EC and SJC ofﬁcers are off the hook,

“To many students, Student Council
elections are like Groundhog Day, Where
the entire nation focuses the media
spotlight—even if ever so briefly—on a
rodent in a small Pennsylvania town in
order to symbolically predict the length of
the season. Likewise, at the University,
students are reminded that not only does
[student government] exist, but that the
leadership and agenda of that organization
is so important that it demands the
attention of students for a week or more.”
Preston Lloyd
TI-IE CAVALIER DAILY

however. They all ran on detailed platforms, whether
the voters took the time to learn of these or not.
Hold these students accountable. If they promised
you funding to political and religious organizations
in the future, make sure that these organizations
receive funding during the next budget allocation.
If they promised you
that they would make
DUI convictions con-
sistent with University
and board policy, make
sure they deliver. If they
promised that the EC
members will be more
active in campus activi-
ties during the next year,
make sure that they at-
tend these meetings and
participate in activities.
And if they don’t, com-
plain. Ultimately, they
are held accountable to
you. Write letters to the
editors of the campus
newspapers. Email or call
these officers individu-
ally. They will listen to
you. You chose them.

While student gov-
ernment elections are often a hot lunch—table con-
versation for a week or so, who will really be
talking about what Marie Trimble plans to do as
EC president or Justin Arnold as EC secretary in
a month? Why is this the case? Students, you
should care what these people are doing. They
are the future of your school. They are your rep-
resentatives.

pain” when in actuality the woman’s fear of her
own body’s unpredictability was at fault. He even
states that The Vagina Monologues condones les-
bian rape, a statement that is utterly false. The play
works throughout to raise awareness of all sorts of
violence against women, from battery to rape. Al-
though the woman’s first sexual experience is at a
young age in “The Little Coochie Snoocher that
Could,” there is no indication that it was undesired.
In addition to these errors, Mr. Kirwan ignores the
monologues that affirm men’s roles in women’s lives,
such as “Because He Liked to Look at it,” and rriis—
represents the play as “male-bashing.”

The play does not bash men. It praises women.
There is a difference. Mr. Kirwan criticizes the play
for degrading Valentine’s Day, “the only holiday dedi-
cated to true romance between a man and a woman,”
since the production occurs near that day and raises
awareness about violence against women by calling
it V-day. Sexual assault, however, is not just an issue
women face. Men have mothers, sisters, daughters,
lovers, and female friends. It is a fact that one out of
every four women is assaulted during her lifetime.
One hopes that both men and women can care about
this issue even when celebrating Valentine’s Day.

Sincerely,
Jennifer Backe, ‘O4

Hit and run incident

provides opportunity for reﬂection

Dear Editor,

I’m not a sentimental person and I don’t make a
point of marking painful anniversaries, but it seems
like every March there is something to remind me. A
couple of years ago it was a late March snow, which
reminded me of the snow that fell on the day of
Ashley’s funeral in March of 1989. This year, it is the
leprechaun trap my oldest son is building for a ﬁrst—
grade class project. A day or two after Ashley was
killed, we who lived on her ﬂoor in Gilliam dormitory
awoke to little green leprechaun footprints running
every which way in a sweet attempt by a fellow fresh-
man to bring a smile amidst all the horror.

This March it has been 15 years since freshman
Ashley Scarborough was stiuck down and killed in a
hit—and-run accident as she walked alone on Wash-
ington Street in the wee hours of a Wednesday party
night. The driver turned out to be a fellow W&L
student, Blake Comer, who kept this incredible atroc-
ity secret for many months before being caught.

Ashley was a wonderful girl. You would have liked
her. You would have noticed her for her red hair, quick
wit, and inclusive, accepting approach to those around
her. Guys, you would probably have had a crush on her;
she was all Southern sweetness with a spark and inner
strength that would have made you look twice. ladies,
you would have admired her style and might have wanted
to be her friend. . She would have responded to you
wannly and sincerely, with no hint of arrogance.

There are dozens of us scattered across the coun-

try (and even world) who remember this and so much
more about Ashley. She had four extremely close
friends who she was making plans to live with the
following year, and countless other friends (like me)
who could tell you story after story of how she made
those around her smile. She had a great boyfriend
who was a pre—med student and top swirnmer/water
polo player. She was a lot like you, and she died at 19
years old, leaving a life full of promises not kept.

Her death affected dozens of lives greatly and the
whole community to some extent. But, of course, none
were affected as much as her family. Now, 15 years later
and a parent myself, I feel physically ill at the thought
of the phone call our Dean of Freshmen had to make to
her parents that horrible morning. Ashley was the sec-
ond daughter they lost in a two—year period. The sec-
ond phone call with the words death, daughter, car, and
alcohol, the second funeral, the second time they had
to ﬁnd the strength to go on living. Can you imagine
dealing with that kind of pain?

Why am I telling you all this? I’m not your par-
ent or your friend, but I care about the choices you
make. I was blessed to have walked where you walked
and gone on to a wonderful full life juggling marriage,
parenting, writing/editing, and volunteer work in
school and at church. It is the kind of life you wouldn’t
know to aspire to at the age of 18, but you feel incred-
ibly grateful and blessed to have at the age of 33. My
friend Ashley didn’t get to pursue that life, and that
makes me incredibly sad and angry, even now. Will
you think of her before you make choices that could
have consequences that echo across the years and
ripple through all the people around you in life—chang—
ing, heart-wrenching ways? Will you think of Blake
Comer, who got behind the wheel of a car after drink-
ing and then made a cowardly decision that I’m sure
haunts him every day of his life‘? Will you think of
Ashley’s parents and her brother, John? Will you
think of Ashley’s boyfriend, who got the news while
at the national swimming championships? Will you
think of your friends and the unbelievable effect trag-
edy has on a young person who becomes an adult
from that day forward? Will you think about all the
possible consequences of drinking irresponsibly and
decide now that you will not get behind the wheel of
a car or put yourself in any other perilous situation
that could end in tragedy?

I can tell you, the future is pretty wonderful.
You don’t want to miss it...

Sincerely,
Marcy (Brown) Rand
’92

Student elections need
more content, time for campaigning

Dear Editor,

Recently, students voted in elections for stu-
dent government ofﬁcers. While I am sure that we
have selected a group of honest, qualiﬁed people
to fill our most important governmental positions, I

have some serious problems with the election pro-
cess in general.W&L students are forced to make
decisions about who will represent them with vir-
tually no information about the candidates—at
least, virtually none that counts. The campus is
covered with signs, cards, and stickers that make
ambiguous promises about candidates’ “honor” or
“integrity”, but in a community that is built around
those two concepts, shouldn’t we assume that all
of the candidates can offer those qualities? They’re
the ONLY promises out there. If most or all of the
candidates for a given ofﬁce simply pledge to rep-
resent us as best they can, uphold honor, or “insert
vague platitude here”, then what are we, the vot-
ers, to use to distinguish the differences between
them? Many students vote for those candidates
whom they have had classes with or with whom
they have shaken hands eighteen times outside
the d—hall if they don’t feel that they really know
any of the candidates. I realize that we have a small
school and that we are closely knit, but students
can’t be expected to know everyone on the ballot.

However, the complete lack of content in our elec-
tions is not really the fault of the candidates. In fact, one
candidate, Phil Walotsky, made great efforts to articulate
things that he wanted to get accomplished. In general,
though, our campaign system doesn’t provide a forum
for candidates to express their views. There are no de-
bates, no speeches, and no proﬁles or platforms (even
small ones) that are consistently presented in the pa-
pers. One of the reasons that candidates don’t present
details about their positions is because they don’t really
have open access to a medium that is suitable for such
communication. Signs have to be concise enough to be
absorbed with a cursory glance, e—mails are deleted (they
are pretty annoying) as ﬁequently as they are read, and
it’s awkward enough for candidates to introduce them-
selves in the commons, let alone talk about school policy.

'Ihereareafewthingsthatcouldbedonetoim-
provethisprocess. Firstofall,thereshouldbeanorga-
nized debate and/or speeches given a week or so before
the elections. I know, I know. . .1 have heard the argu-
ment before that people will not attend. So? Even if only
a few people would attend such events, the Phi and the
Trident could do articles that at least sum up some of
what was said. In addition, sor_ne sort of public event
would go a long way to making sine that EC candidates
can handle their obligations in meetings well. Both pa-
pers should at least run an article with small statements
from each candidate. Anything is better than nothing.

The above reforms aren’t much to ask. These
policies are even present in many high school elec-
tions. But unlike high school leaders, members of the
EC, SJC, etc. have substantial power. They adminis-
ter our honor system, distribute substantial sums of
money, make policy changes, and represent us to the
administration. We must employ a process that helps
voters to make more informed decisions and reﬂects
the importance of our student govenirnent.

Sincerely,
Sam Wilmoth, ‘O7

gratis

Gt-tiara Lavmerrtzs RANGQL
Pn.ArEsiAr.sxA~oEa METHQIB

  

309 N. l\®_‘L1’1 St.

  
 

540«461~3447

Lexington, VA 24450

Write opinions for the Phi!

The'Ring-tum Phi is currently seeking to hire new opinions writers!
If you’re interested in applying for an Op/Ed position, please e-mail
phi @ wlu.edu, or e-mail the Opinions Editor at andersonc @ wlu.edu.

<l> <l>

<l>

 

  

JG-lNI‘IYlAl\D
AETTANTSEORTSFDTTOR

mm m

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

BTERBIG-TUTEPEE

PORTS

PAGE 5

Baseball wins first two ODAC games in doubleheader

BY JOHN HYI.AND
ASSITANT sPORTs EDITOR

The W&L baseball team recovered from a
tough loss on Friday afternoon to Mary Washing-
ton by starting their ODAC season on the right
track, winning two decisive games against Emory
and Henry on Saturday in a doubleheader. The
team’s record stands at 8-3, 2-0 ODAC.

In Friday’s game, Mary Washington, the 23rd
ranked team in the country, came out showing why
they are nationally ranked and hold a 9-1 record.
The Eagles jumped out to a 6-0 lead after ﬁve in-
nings while their starting pitcher, a ﬂame throwing
lefty, seemed unhittable through the first four in-
nings, not allowing a hit. The Eagles held a 7-1
advantage in the sixth when the Generals got back
in the game with freshman rightﬁelder Richard
Garland’s two run homer. W&L manufactured
two more runs in the seventh to cut the lead to 7-5.
In the eighth, the Generals had runners at second
and third with two cuts, but the inning ended when
sophonire second baseman Scott Gosselink hit a
long ﬂy ball to right ﬁeld and the Generals fell 7-5.

The comeback was made possible by frehman
lefthander Johnson Branlow who replaced starter
Mike Wert and pitched four solid innigs of relief,
only allowing one run Wert suffered his first loss
of the season and his record fell to 2-1. Sophomore
centerﬁelder Dave MacKenzie and freshman des-
ignated hitter David Miller each added a pair of hits
for the Generals.

In the first game on Saturday, the Generals sent
their ace, Peter Dean, to the hill. With a win, Dean
would become the Generals all—tirne leader in career
wins. The record was never really in doubt. Dean
pitched brilliantly, going the full seven innings, not
allowing a run on ﬁve hits and striking out six, to

him plenty of support, scoring a
run in each of the first five in-
nings en route to a 7-0 win.
Gosselink went 3 for 3 with two
runs scored and junior Zach
Bausch, the designated hitter for
the game, went 3 for 4 with two

« RBIs. Garland, MacKenzie and

sophomore first baseman Taylor
McConnell all contributed a pair
of hits.

In the nightcap, the Gener-
als, once again did not give the
Wasps much of a chance. Senior
leftfielder Bryan Mulhem and
Bausch hit back to back homers
in the first as part of a ﬁve run
inning. It was more than enough
run support that senior
righthander Dan Kagey would
need. Neverthless, the Generals
scored another run in the sec-
ond and eight more in the fourth
to blow open the game. The final
was 16-3, with W&L amasssing
21 hits. Many Generals contrib-
uted to the offensive onslaught.
After his homer, Bausch hit three
doubles, including two in the
fourth alone and finished the
game 4 for 4 with three runs
scored and three RBIs. Mulhem
ﬁnished 2 for 5 with two runs
scored and five RBIs. Garland
went 3 for 4 with two runs scored
and two RBIs. MacKenzie,
Gosselink, McConnell and fresh-

man third baseman, Clayton Edwatrds, all contrib-

I

 LOIIRTESY SPORTS INFORMATION

ALL TIME IEADER. Senior Peter Dean became V/8£L’s all time win leader
with his 24th career win in a game against Emory 85 Henry.

nings and striking out 11. With the pair of losses,

uted multi-hit games. Kagey improved his record the Wasps fell to 0-8, 0-2 ODAC. The Generals next

 

earn his fourth win of the season. His offense gave

A-Rod will stay at third

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Now that Spring Training is
underway, the talk in baseball
continues to be the Yankees ac-
quisition of Alex Rodriruez, argu-
ably the best player in baseball
an'd...hi.s. unpt¢.<:<>?itjec.i.irn.0Y¢’.. ,.
fromjshorstop to  base.

There are a number of
reasons why barring
unforseen circumstances, A-
Rod will be the Yankees third
baseman for years to come.
First of all, he agreed to come
to the Yankess with the ex-
plicit understanding that he
would play third base and
Derek Jeter would play short-
stop. A-Rod has gone out of
his way to make the change a
non-issue, having repeadetly
reiterated in interviews that
this is Jeter’s team, he is the
team’s shortstop and should
remain at shortstop and has
made it clear that if their roles were
reversed and Jeter was coming
to Texas, he would expect to stay
at his position. A-Rod is right,
J eter has been the centerpiece of
the Yankees for almost a decade,
which has included four champi-
onships and six American League
Pennants. There is no reason for
that to change.

More importantly than
that, A-Rod’s physical skills
make him much more conducive
to playing third base than Jeter.
The main criticism of J eter’s de-
fense over the years has been his
poor reaction to the ball coming
off the bat. This is a weakness
that would be exploited even
more at third base where he would
have to play even closer to the
batter. A-Rod’s reaction is much

better than Jeter’s. That skill
combined with his overall good
glove and strong throwing arm
(he won a gold glove last year)
should makeit an easy transi-
tion for him. The same transi-

tion was fairly easy for Cal

 

Ripken, Jr., A-Rod’s boyhood
idol and a player with simillar
physical skills and body type. A-
Rod might be the best shortstop
in baseball, but Jeter is very solid,
having won four championships
at the position. A-Rod seems de-
termined to become the garne’s
best third baseman, just as he
was able to do at shortstop.

It would be unprecedented
for a player to switch positions
in his prime and become the
game’s best at both positions,
which I think is a motivating fac-
tor for A-Rod to succeed. The
Yankees will be putting out their
best defense with A-Rod at third
and J eter at short. Given A-Rod
’s skills and professionalism, I do
not foresee this to be a problem
and as a lifelong Yankees fan, I
am very excited about the up-
coming year.

to 2-0 on the year after pitching seven shutout in-

face Piedmont at home on Wednesday.

A-Rod will be studying abroad

BY RYAN GRITTER
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDTTOR

Alex Rodriguez is essentially study-
ing abroad. He has moved from his com-
fortable home at shortstop to immerse
himself in the foreign culture that is third
base. However, just like a student, he
will return to his home. Third base is not
the new permanent position of this fu-
ture Hall of Famer. There are simply way
too many events that could cause him to
move back, and surely at least one will
take place.

While no one can deny that the ad-
dition of A-Rod to an already impressive
lineup gives the Yankees an enormous
boost come playoff time, high expecta-
tions can lead to a great deal of pressure.
The Yankees have been without a World
Series win for three years now, and fans,
not to mention the ever looming Darth
Vader....sorry, I mean George
Steinbrenner, have grown impatient.
When the first losing skid comes along,
tensions in the clubhouse and in the
front ofﬁce will be almost unbearable.
With the enormous egos in that club-
house, Gary Sheffield in particular, whole-
some relations carmot be ensured. We
have all heard about A-Rod’s rocky
friendship with Derek J eter, and while that
will receive much of the media attention,
there are plenty of large ego’s that could
potentially clash with the superstar. At
some point, management as well as the
players must choose a leader.

The leadership role on the Yankees
has been Jeter’s since 1996 and has
spawned 4 World Series Championships,
as well as numerous commercials. If
Steinbrenner is forced to decide who his
leader is going to be, he will ﬁnd it in-
credibly difﬁcult to choose anyone but
Jeter, who has become the face of the
Yankees. The role certainly will not be
ﬁlled by Giambi, who is aging and injury
prone, or Shefﬁeld, who is a clubhouse
cancer. A-Rod has never been in a lead-

ership role for a winning team (the 1996
Mariners were led by Ken Griffey Jr.), and
has not shown leadership qualities. A
leader must be able to call teammates out
and inspire them a la Ray Lewis. A-Rod is
not that type of leader, he is quiet and ea-
ger to please all; he doesn’t seem to be
the type to light a fire_under,a fellow
player’s <ahem>. Ifthe Yankees don’t win
the World Series, it will be very tempting
to GM Brian Cashman to deal the MVP
inﬁelder.

The ﬁnal reason that A-Rod will not
stay at third is simply because he is a gold
glove shortstop. He has accepted this
move willingly only because he thinks he
can win a World Series. As soon as some-
thing goes wrong, whether or not he pub-
licly announces it, he will be longing to be
a shortstop. He may get the opportunity,
as Jeter has shown a propensity for get-
ting injured while A-Rod held one of the
longest consecutive games played streaks
in the steroid era.

The many ways that A-Rod could ﬁnd
himself back at the shortstop position all
could be thwarted by a certain combina-
tion of events. All that would have to hap-
pen is that J eter and A-Rod would have to
stay healthy, the team would have to have
almost no clashing of egos in the club-
house, a fantastic season ending in a
World Series win, and a successful sea-
son for Derek J eter at shortstop. Unfortu-
nately, the odds of all of these things fall-
ing into place just aren’t realistic. They
could both feasibly stay healthy, they
could both have ﬁne seasons, Shefﬁeld
could shut up, but the World Series win
on top of that might cause the
apocalypse. . .and they no longer have the
pitching to do so. Here’s a little word of
advice for GM Brian Cashman, move J eter
to second, A-Rod back to short, and go
strong after Eric Chavez of the A’s for third.
An inﬁeld like that would give any man-
ager a tingly feeling as he made out the
lineup card each night.

Dean becomes
W&L all time win
leader with 24th win

BY KIM GUNST
sTAFi=wR1TER '

Every time Peter Dean takes the mound, he
expects to win. However, the optimistic baseball
captain isn ’t just winning games——he’s also break-
ing records. Dean saw his 24th career win in
Saturday’s doubleheader against Emory & Henry,
becoming the General’s all—time win leader.

“I was fortunate to win six games my freshman
year,” Dean said. “At that time, I remember looking
at the record and thinking that I was on pace to
break it, but never in my wildest dreams did I be-
lieve that I could.”

Even though Dean knew he could break the
record after tying it last Sunday, he says it hasn’t
affected his approach. The team’s combination of
strong pitchers and good hitters are what Dean
believes take the pressure off of him.

“The win record is not just my record,” Dean
said. “It is directly correlated with how well the
tearn_ has played. The pitcher can’t win any games
if the batters don’t score any runs.”

Despite what Dean calls “lucky timing,” he also
owes his success on the baseball ﬁeld to a deci-
sion he made his junior year of high school. Al-
though Dean started
playing Little League

when he was just nine, 6‘ '
he chose to instead AtthattHne’I
playh tgrilriii onlfe lhe remember
reac e ig sc oo. _
After the offen-  at the
sive coordinator for his
football team per- rCCOrd and
suaded him to play - -
baseball, Dean de- 
cided it was time for a
change. He played was on pace to
baseball for the next breakigbut
{W0 YCaI$.- . . . , .
Dean actually ﬂevefmmy

came to W&L to play
football, but once
again decided to give
baseball a shot. He
worked hard to im-
prove his freshman
year—a time, he says,
that he first realized he
might be able to win a
few games for the Generals.

Four years later, Dean is a three-tirne letter win-
ner and team captain who has been named a Divi-
sion III “Player to Watch” by Collegiate Baseball
News. And just last season, he earned Academic
All-American honors.

But Dean’s most memorable baseball moment
was defeating Virginia Wesleyan last year, making
the team the conference leader. He says the entire
conference tournament was an experience he'll
never forget.

“We played well as a team,” Dean recalled.
“Every game was exciting. We were close to win-
ning it all.”

With no weak spots in the ﬁeld or in the lineup,
Dean foresees an even better season than last. He
says he is confident that every member of the team
can play well, rather than just having a select core
group of stronger players.

Dean is looking forward to his last baseball
season at W&L, but says it doesn’t necessarily
have to be the end. Even though he has already
been accepted to medical school at the University
of Virginia, he says he is going to leave his options
open.

“If somebody gives me the opportunity to play
baseball at the next level, that is an opportunity I
couldn’t pass up,” Dean said. “I can always go to
medical school. I try not to think of next year. I am
just concerned with helping the team win this year.”

wildest dreams
did I believe that
I could.”

PETER DEAN

Tuesday, March 9

Wednesday, March 10

Thursday, March 11

Friday, March 12

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDULE

Saturday, March 13

Sunday, March 14

0 Open

0 W Tennis vs.
Bridgewater, at Roanoke-
-4:00

0 Baseball vs. Piedmont--
3:00

0W Lax vs. Sweet Briar--
4:00

0 Open

0 W Tennis vs. Washing-
ton College, at Eastern
Mennonite--3:30

2:00

2:00

0 Baseball vs. Randolph-
Macon (DH )--1 :00

0 M Lax at Franklin &
Marshall--1:00

0 W Lax at F ranklin&
Marshall--11:00

0 Track hosts W&L
Invitational--9:30

0 M Tennis vs. Denison--

° W Tennis vs. Salisbury--

° W Tennis vs. Denison--
1:00

 

 

Siﬁiirs

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

CIRCLING THE GOAL. A General circles the Greensboro goal looking for an open teammate. The team would go on to easily defeat Greensboro 18-6.

Womens’
claims twoﬁwins

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

The Generals started out
strong and never looked back as
they defeated Greensboro 18-6
on Wednesday night. The
women got off to an early lead
with four straight goals. Greens-
boro followed suite, however,
with three consecutive goals.

With 16:31 remaining on the
clock, senior Kelly Taffe scored
back—to-back goals, securing the
General’s led over the Pride.
Taffe lead the Generals in scor-
ing along with teammate, fresh-
man Kelly Evans. Each claimed
four goals.

“I love being able to play
with people that understand the
game,” said Evans of her game.
“As thrilling as it is to score
goals though, the wins and
losses are a complete team ef-

lacrosse

fort.

Senior Joarma Perini pro-
tected the net for the Generals
with eight saves.

The Generals then traveled
to Virginia Wesleyan to com-
pete in the team’s second
ODAC competition of the sea-
son. The Generals returned vic-
torious with a score of 12-8.

Though the Generals had
only a narrow lead at half-tirne,
they came back strong and se-
cured the win in the second
half. Senior Lee Wheeler
headed the effort with four goals
and an assist while teammate
sophomore Kate Lester fol-
lowed closely behind with four
goals of her own.

Perini again saved the net
eight times for the Generals.

The team will travel next to
Franklin and Marshall to com-
pete on Saturday.

Up and down week for mens’ lacrosse

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

The Generals entered this
past week looking to rebound
from a loss to #4 Washington
College on Saturday. They
hosted Lycoming (who is
Lycoming anyway?) on Tuesday
afternoon, and despite a lacklus-
ter effort, they managed to pull
out a win. W&L got four goals,
including the game winner in
triple overtime, from Senior
Midﬁelder Dustin Martin and two
goals from junior attackrnan/male
model Body, en route to a 8-7
overtime victory. Vlfith this mi-
nor boost of confidence, the
Generals prepared for #10
Gettysburg, a team that has. had
trouble beating the Generals the
past few years.

Despite the fact that Senior
midﬁelder Mike “no it’s not bro-
ken, I mean, it hurts, but I play

through pain” McNamara scored
half the Generals’ goals, they
were unable to convert on nu-
merous chances, hitting an ab-
surd number of pipes, and lost
their second of the season to a
solid Gettysburg team. The Bul-
lets (is that really politically cor-
rect? I mean we had to change
to the Wizards and they’re al-
lowed to stay the Bullets?) held
W&L to two goals thanks to a
stingy defense whose “long
poles were the only good play-
ers on their team,” according to
junior midﬁelder Adam Librett
Chesbrough. The Generals
goals, however, were almost
worth the loss.

Senior attack/midfielder
Roland “self-nominated funniest
man in attendance Saturday
night” Williams scored on a la-
ser from “about midﬁeld,” to cut
the deﬁcit to 2-1 with 7: 14 remain-
ing before halftime. The Bullets
tallied a third goal with 3:37 in
the first half, inspiring

W&L table tennis falls to UVA, J MU

BY JANE BEALL
STAFF WRITER

OnFebruary 7, 2004, the crib
Table Tennis team traveled to
Charlottesville, Virginia for its ﬁrst
intercollegiate match. The brave
pioneering members of the Club,
sporting khakis with either duck
boots or boat shoes, showed up
late to Slaughter Gymnasium and
were met with intense play, al-
ready in progress. Virginia Tech’s
squad, the perennial favorite, were
outﬁtted in dry-ﬁt jerseys with
their names (which were mostly
of Asian origin) and numbers bla-
zoned across the back. The Gen-
erals, however, were not intimi-
dated.

The Generals first faced
UVA’s Cavaliers, which fea-
tured Martin and Cathy, two
Junior Olympic table tennis
competitors, and a coach that
was the national champion not
twice, but thrice, in the seven-
ties (I kid you not, I kid you
not). W&L scouts reported that
the UVA team holds their prac-

tices on their Friday nights.
These practices are followed
by team bonding sessions that
go late into the night, during
which they trade Pokemon
cards and play with their Pogs.
The Generals, who boast the
likes of a freshman named
Barrett Something, and a jun-
ior stud named Chris Some-
thing in the one and two slots,
respectively, put forth a valiant
group effort, but ultimately fell
in both singles and doubles
match play.

Next, the brave Generals
took on the purple and gold
Dukes from James Madison
University. The really, really, ri-
diculously good looking pair of
brothers (fraternal and biologi-
cal), Walker and Matt Nickles,
fought hard against JMU’s
best. Though they both re-
corded losses, mostly due to
the shaggy hair that blocked
their vision, they looked ex-
tremely handsome in their
matching polo shirts. Some kid
named Marshall, who appar-
ently doesn’t even go to W&L
and is in fact, currently enrolled

House for Rent
In The Country

4‘ Bedroom
4 Bath

Lease goes from June 15, 2004 to June 15,
2005

1.5 miles‘ on Rt. 60 East

66JaWS99

as a freshman at Clemson Uni-
versity, tagged along and
sparred in several matches -
all of which he lost. The
doubles battle showcased the
skills of veterans

Tyler Van
Leeuwan and
Jane Beall. The

duet dazzled the
crowd with their

\ With growling
stomachs signaling
the nearness of

rallies against the clubs Virginia
Polytechnic Institute, Fork Union
Military Academy, and Piedmont
Community College. In celebra-
tion of their hard fought matches,
the team went to
Charlottesville’s
famous greasy
spoon on the Cor-
ner, The White
Spot, where they

smiles and good lunchtime’ and a rewarded them-
sportsmanship, selves with artery-
though unfortu-  Outlook f01' c 1 o g g i n g
nately not with the upcoming Gusburgers.
their talent. Ulti- Though the
mately, the pair matChes9the Club was essen-
lost both of their Generals gracefully tially devastated
matches, but they bowed out of the by their opponent,
managed to it was agreed that
wrangle an im— toumamentm the Generals were
pressive total of the winners as far
five points from  TABLE as fashion was
their worthy ad— I concerned, and
versaries. TENNIS were unanimously
With growling voted the tourna-

stomachs signal-

ing the nearness of lunchtime,
and a bleak outlook for the up-
coming matches, the Generals
gracefully bowed out of the tour-
nament, forfeiting the remaining

3-800-643--$849 I wvmadstmrckcom

merits the Best
Dressed. Walker Nickels , in pos-
sibly the proudest moment of the
Club’s short history, was chosen
as the tourrIament’s Miss Con-
geniality.

McNamara to take the team on
his shoulders and snipe a G-O.
With little over two minutes to
go before halftime, the Booosh
caught a pass from freshman
Matt “hey Stanek” Arcati and
one-timed a perfect shot upper
ralph on the whimpering and
helpless freshman ‘burg Goalie
Pat Vaughan (no, really, it’s
spelled that way). This reporter
didn’t actually get to talk to
Vaughan, but most Generals on
the ﬁeld remember hearing him

say, “I need a clean pair of shorts,
coach.” Then some other stuff
happened; the Bullets managed
to score more goals than the Gen-
erals did at the end of regulation,
so they won, if you can call that
winning.

When asked about the game,
Body stated “I don’t know, prac-
tice is not going to be fun tomor-
row.” The Generals return to ac-
tion on Saturday when they
travel to ninth—ranked F&M.
Gametime is 1:00 pm.

Mens’ tennis

defeats Hampden-
Sydney College 7-0

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team brought
home a win Wednesday after
defeating Hampden—Sydney, 7-
0, on the road. The men im—
proved-their record to 7-4, 4-0
in the ODAC. Hampden-
Sydney is now 1-1, 0-1 in the
ODAC.

Junior Paul McClure led
the men with a 6-3, 6-2 win over
Patrick Gee in the No. 1 singles
match. McClure is ranked 21st
nationally.

Sophomore David Shay
defeated Justin Paciocco 6-1, 6-
1 in the No.2 spot. In the No.3
singles match, senior Graham
Nix shut down Russ Brown, 6-
0, 6-0. ‘ .

Senior K.C. Schaefer also
won his match against Stephen
Johnson at No. 4, 6-0, 6-1. In
the No. 5 spot, sophomore Jor-
dan Eichenberger shut down
John Cronly 6-0, 6-0. Senior
Austin Kim rounded out the
singles play with a 6-0, 6-1 win
over Part Willings in the No. 6
match.

In doubles play, McClure
and Eichenberger teamed up to
defeat Gee and Johnson 8-5 at
No. 1. Kim and Nix won their
match with an 8-1 victory over
Paciocco and Brown at No. 2.
Schaefer and Shay shut down

their opponents, Cronly and
Willings, 8-0 in the No. 3 spot.

Washington and Lee is
currently ranked 8th in the In-
tercollegiate Tennis
Association’s (ITA) Division
III national rankings. The
men’s team was also picked first
in the 2004 ODAC Preseason
Spring poll. The poll is decided
by a vote taken of the league’s
coaches.

Captain Austin Kim says
the team is trying to include
matches against bigger teams
earlier in the season. Some of
the teams the Generals are gear-
ing up for are Salisbury, Mary
Washington, Swarthmore, and
Washington College. Kim says
the team is working on several
things in preparation for these
matches, particularly its
doubles play.

“Especially with the
doubles point, it is only one
point, but sometimes it can de-
cide the match,” Kim said. “We
have been working on our
doubles play, because that’s
actually a weakness for us.”
The Generals host Denison on
Saturday at 2:00 p.m. for a non-
conference match-up. This will
be the first match of the sea-
son for Denison. For the 2003
season, Denison finished with
an overall record of 8-9.
Salisbury has also been added
to the schedule for Saturday.

Support Generals’
gag/Athletics

Fraternities -- Sororities
Clubs -- Student Groups
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event. Our
free programs make fundraising easy with no
risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get

with the program! It works. Contact
CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238, or visit
  .

IL

 

L’

 

PAGE 7 I

"'l’_i=ﬁ3RlE\l<.}"l’Lllv1l7I~ll

RTS 8t

  

LIFE

MEGANMORGAN
ARis&LnrEnnoR

Washington and Lee lesbian lives ‘out’ life in Lexington

« A minority of one: that’s how Peggy
Altman feels at times. Peggy, a junior ge-
ology major from Belle Glade, Fla., is cur-
rently the only out lesbian on campus.

It hasn’t been hard to be the only les-
bian, Peggy says, “except for the lack of
options,” she adds with a smile. Dating,
obviously, can be hard when your pos-
sible dates include you and only you.
“There’s never re-

stated, “Lesbians Wanted,” followed by
her phone number. She never quite
worked up the nerve to hang it.
According to Peggy, it might be
easier to be a lesbian on campus than a
gay man because most people don’t react
as harshly to lesbians. Nonetheless, she
can’t explain why more women don’t come
out. “I don’t know what it is, honestly,”

ally been a lesbian
population. With _
guys there’s six or i

 

MORETHANMAJNSTREAM
KELLY jo LARSEN ‘05

Peggy says. “To be
out and comfortable I
think it’s easier to be
female and gay but I

seven out men” but
Peggy embodies
the entire population herself. She’s
learned to compensate by visiting
Roanoke and Lynchburg. “You just kinda
meet your random people,” she explains.

However, she thinks like she’s not re-

ally the lone lesbian at W&L. “I don’t-»

think I’m the only one. I think I’m the
only one that acknowledges it and is
out,” she asserts. She often jokes about
starting a lesbian recruiting service. Dur-
ing the Gay—Straight Alliance’s National
Coming Out Day celebrations she even
designed a sign to hang up that simply

think that the
acknowledgement is harder.”

Peggy believes the Greek system
could have an effect on keeping lesbians
in the closet. Peggy deactivated from a
sorority last year. “It’s a lot of money to
spend on something that I wasn’t really
involved in,” she explains. There were
never any incidents in the sorority that
affected Peggy, and her membership did
not keep her from coming out. “I wasn’t
really involved in the sorority to a point
where it would affect me. There really
wasn’t a chance for anything,” Peggy
said. However, the Greek system could be

holding a lot of lesbians in the closet.
“There’s a lot of pressure to be the ideal
woman and a lot of pressure to be a cer-
tain way. Everybody, whether it’s one big
group or a minority, wants to fit in. It’s
human nature to want to be accepted by
a group,” she explained. Then again, “no
one ‘knows how a» srat would react be-
cause there aren’t any [out lesbian so-
rority members].”

Peggy came out to her teammates on the
basketball team freshman year and she told
her parents that summer. She took the fall of
her sophomore year off to complete National
Outdoor Leadership School training and
when she came back to campus she didn’t
keep her sexuality a secret. “I came back and
people knew and I didn’t hide it. I never hid
it but it’s not like I shouted it from the roof-
tops either,” Peggy remembers. She also had
a girlfriend at the time and w2sn’t afraid to
walk across the campus hand—in—hand with
her.

When she does come out, most
people simply say, “Oh, ok,” and move
on. “Guys ask me for sex advice, and
mostly the girls just don’t say anything,”
Peggy says. Peggy might be among the

few girls on campus that a guy could ask
about'sex and not appear to be hitting on
her or just being really inappropriate. “I
think‘ the majority is ok with it. They
might not agree with homosexuality but
are just like, ‘to each his own.’ The out-
spoken, though, are really outspoken,”
Peggy explained. No one has ever said
anything directly to her and she learns
of most of the opposition through the
newspapers. «

Peggy came to W&L after applying
early decision and knew very little about
the school, even less how the student
body reacted to gays and lesbians. “Se-
nior year I was still trying to play it
straight and it really wasn’t on my mind.
I knew [W&L] had mountains and it was
a good education,” Peggy recalled. She
has enjoyed her time here and explains,
“My problems with W&L are not because
I’m a lesbian.” She issues advice to her
fellow students to simply be themselves.
“To anybody——be it gay, straight, blue,
black, anything-be comfortable in that
,and you’ll be surprised how many people
will be accepting. Give them the benefit
of the doubt.”

ONE HECK or A PARTY

Dancing the night away. On the top left, pary-goers danced the night away to the sounds of the band Voltage Brothers, who performed a wide variety of music for attendees. On the top right and bottom,
decorations including ﬂowers, mushrooms and lollipop trees covered the Warner Center reﬂecting the theme of the dance, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory . In addition, the smaller gym, which
was set up for a DJ, was decorated to resemble the bubble room from the movie and had a screen playing scenes from the movie.

 

mg—tum

Tom James Company

.,,_\

at :6“?-~ W___ I
‘v ».‘\ ‘ "xx;

   

terraced landscaping.

Asking $229,000.

(540) 464-3738
or

Home forS al

704 N. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON, VA

Built circa 1880 on Institute Hill, now completely restored with
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors.

4 Bedrooms, 1 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new
kitchen plus a large utility/oﬂice Room. Large third floor
storage room and an attached outside storage area.
Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls on

Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping.
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly.

Interviews?
Internship?
Special occasion?

your best!!

and Sports Coats

Student Packages &

Contact Adam Williams
I for an appointment or
with questions

5408154557

(540) 46047 1 8

Let us help you look and feel

Custom and Ready Made Suits

Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories

Gi t Certi icates Available

Adam.Wi1liams @tomjamesretail.com

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

this, several students

have recently an-
nounced their
engagments. This
week, two couples have
released announce-
ments.

Mr. and Mrs

 

Jonathan Downes of
Granville,’ Ohio an-
nounce the engagement
of their daughter, Miss
Helen Elizabeth
Downes to Mr. Andrew

Tex.

As graduation approaches, stu-
dents have begun to make summer, ca-
reer and relationship plans. As part of

 

Helen Downes & Andrew Fotinos

Christopher Fotinos, son of Reverend
and Mrs. Dennis Fotinos of Kingwood,

Miss Downes is a 2002 graduate of
Washington and Lee University, and is
the Project Coordinator for the Envi-
ronmental Studies Program at Wash-
ington and Lee. Mr. Fotinos will gradu-
ate in June from Washington and Lee
with a degree in politics and environ-

Two W&L couples announce engagements

mental studies. The couple plan to
move to Charlottesville, Va. after
their wedding where Miss Downes
hopes to pursue a master’s degree
in elementary education.

The wedding is planned for Aug.

7, 2004 at R. E. Lee Memo-
rial Episcopal Church in
Lexington, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. George
Small announce the en-
gagement of their daugh-
ter, Miss Justine Small to
Mr. Cameron Smith, son
of Mr. and Mrs. Sid
Smith of Brentwood,
Tenn.

Miss Small is a mem-
ber of the class of 2005
and Mr. Smith is a mem-

ber of the class of 2004. The couple
met orientation week of her fresh-
man year, and began dating shortly
thereafter.

Miss Small and Mr. Smith plan

to wed in Brentwood on July 2, 2005.
Mr. Smith plans to attend law school
after graduation, and so their future
plans hinge on his law school
choice.

 

 

PAGE 8

THE

int RING-iutifir

AST ORD

MEGANMORGAN
Ans&lrrrEDrroR

FMAl:lvlORGl\NMl@WlUlDlJ

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

Absolute Fratlord salutes women of Washington and Lee

This past week was amazing. But why is
that? I had a twelve-page midterm to take
care of, in addition to another paper and a
test. Furthermore, I had to supervise IM
Basketball all week long, since last year I
made that fateful decision to
sell my soul to the intramural _
program. Ididn’t get a lot of 
sleep. I lost some money in
poker. I ran out of clean socks
and never got around to do laundry. I ripped
a hole in my favorite pair of corduroys. My
truck almost ran out of gas. Truthfully,
given all these things that drove me crazy,
the week probably seemed sorta crappy,
right?

But I stand by my comment — It was an
amazing week! Any guesses why?

As the weather gets warmer, we all get
to see the most beautiful thing about W&L,
and it’s not the red brick buildings or the
blossoming flowers. It’s the girls.

W&L girls are unbelievable. I firmly be-
lieve that every male student at W&L is
spoiled by our proximity to some of the most
wonderfully attractive ladies in the world.
As with all things, W&L tends to put its own

 

ALL CALL FOR EQUALITY.

A1>soLUr FRATTDTRDT
LlImSLIvIrr_H_‘@|4_

unique twist on the typical college experi-
ence, and with W&L ladies, it’s no different.
Maybe it has to do with the Southern debu-
tante heritage or with the Greek system or
whatever, but I really do think that there’s
something about W&L girls,
the way they dress, the way
they behave, or just who they
are that places them worlds
apart from the typical American
college females.

Seriously — which frat guy, in going
down to help freshmen move in during the
first day of orientation week, hasn’t sighed
and marveled at the ridiculous girls who are
entering the school? Freshman Face-Books
are transformed into the Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit issues, with all W&L guys debat-
ing over which new ladies compete for the
-“Hottest Girl to Stroll the Colonnade”
Award. During the first few weeks of fall
term, upperclassmen frat guys are gener-
ally more concerned with “rushing” fresh-
men girls than the guys, knowing full well
that frosh guys will follow the girls just
about anywhere.

Now with the weather getting warmer,

. Guerilla Girls. On March 2 a comedy troupe called The Guerilla Girls performed in the W&L Elrod Commons Theater. The troupe, who
has been performing since 1985, consists of anonymous feminists that take the names of dead women artists, appear in guerilla masks in
public and use humor to highlight and start discussions on sexism and racism in art, film, politics and culture as a whole.

it’s like stumbling into a department store
catalog. One of my pledges has an internet
poll on the best thing about spring, and,
sure enough, at the top of the list is the
obvious answer: Girls in Mini-Skirts. I won-
der if any observant students have noticed
the big goofy smile on my face as I walk
down Stemmons Plaza, passing girl after
wonderful girl, thanking my lucky stars that
I’ve had the opportunity to spend four glo-
rious years in this paradise.

I’m sure there are some critics. I’ve
heard a few myself — all those naysayers
who have convinced themselves that W&L
girls are spoiled elitists Southern daugh-
ters who’ve been bred to understand how
immaculate they are. Typically though,
these critics are bashing sororities, not the
girls in them. I’ve had my own negative
comments towards characteristics of the
sororities at this school (towards fraterni-
ties too for that matter). But I think you’d
be hard-pressed to find a student who, af-
ter meeting these supposedly “elitist” girls
individually, would not be impressed by
the charm, the kindness and the genuine
nature that the majority of W&L girls have.

This rebuke is
part of a pattern
in The Passion.
The release
of “The Pas-

year-old man.

Absolutely.

DY G mg- um

 

U
I

Q Which possesses more hotness? Colton
Ward’s rat tail or Travis Srnith’s VMI basketball
sweater vest?

Q Hell Week; Since no one has pledgeship any-
more, can we haze the administration?

Q Since they go unrecognized too often, I want
to recognize and make all aware of the Minority
Student Dream Team, Kisha Barnes, Zakiyah
Bradford and Kaela Harmon.

Q Look at the panoramic picture on the third level
of the library. Are the two men on the far left and

the far right not one and the same? Weird.

Q Will my paper ever finish itself?

Q Do the professors ever tire of teaching? Be-
cause I’m getting tired of going to class.

Q Has anyone else noticed how cute the Italian-
looking pizza guy in the Marketplace is?

Q Quick Poll: Harry Vlfrnston vs. Tiffany engage-
ment ring: No-Brainer, Harry Winston, OF COURSE!
For those who don’t understand, if Tiffany equals
Mercedes-Benz then Harry Winston equals Rolls
Royce. It’s as simple as that.

Q Damn Brittany and her masochistic ways for
cutting the tail of our gerbil.

Q Shout out to the SAO for sponsoring the ﬁrst
video game tournament.

Q More on that: Has everyone heard about the
Halo Team Tournament on March 12?

Q Still more: Way to go SAO! Ofﬁcial recogni-
tion by the EC as a student organization.

Q Kisha would like to announce her plans to be
engaged to J eb later in the month.

Q I understand that Martha was found guilty on
all four counts, but can we please stop the “How to
Brighten Up Your Prison Cell” jokes already?

Q Today in transportation: Both the CSS Virginia
and the Goodyear blimp were ﬁrst launched today,
in 1862 and 1972, respectively.

Q In Canada, yesterday was Alanis Morissette Day.

Jesus of Nazareth hangs from
the cross near the end of Mel’s
Gibson’s “The Passion of The
Christ,” when a Jewish thief, hang-
ing from his own cross to Jesus’
right insults him. “Aren’t you the
Christ? Save yourself and us!”

sion,” Mel Gibson’s explicit depic-
tion of the ﬁnal 12 hours of the life
of Jesus is laden with controversy.
Jewish religious groups have pro-
tested the ﬁlm, saying that the
movie will inﬂame anti—sernitism by
its portrayal of Jews playing a large
role in the cruciﬁxion. Hollywood
critics have accused Gibson of em-
ploying urmecessary violence to
incite hate and anti-sernitism. Jour-
nalists have repeatedly knocked on
the door of Gibson’s father, Hutton,
seeking one more outlandish quote
about the Holocaust from the 85-

But having seen “The Pas-
sion” personally, I was disturbed
and relieved to find these accusa-
tions of the ﬁlm were fraudulent.
The pattern in the ﬁlm is not anti-
semitic; it is a pattern of duality.
Are there evil Jews in the ﬁlm?
Yes. Are there also Jewish heroes?

After the criminal hanging
from Jesus’ right slights the Christ,
another Jewish thief cruciﬁed on
Jesus’ left replies, “We are pun-
ished justly, for we are getting what
our deeds deserve. But this man
has done nothing wrong.” Then
he said, “Jesus, remember me when
you come into your kingdom.”

Jesus answered him, “I tell
you the truth, today you will be
with me in paradise.”

I expect a few reactions to this article.
One generally held perception, or at least
it’s one that I’ve heard before, is that I write
certain things in my articles so that I can
“score” with the W&L ladies. My re-
sponse, with all I’ve written above, is this
— CAN YOU BLAME ME? Before I get
ahead of myself, I am currently in a rela-
tionship, but really, what’s so ridiculous
about that idea?

Also, this is‘ not intended to be some
“gender role” article. I’m not arguing that
girls at this school are so attractive because
they maintain some accepted social position
or some garbage like that. If you’d like to
debate my views about gender roles in the
American society, feel free, but I’m not try-
ing to make a political statement in this case.
I’m simply stating that W&L girls, in gen-
eral, have no equal among the college world.

In a pretty crappy week, warm weather
and W&L girls brightened my days — I think
most W&L fellas will agree that, with Spring
Term fast approaching, they look forward to
the sundresses and the tans and the girls
that make this school an even more amazing
place than it already is.

Is Passion anti-sernitic?

The problem with Gibson’s
critics is that they fail to recog-
nize the film’s Jewish heroes
and heroines and focus on the
negative portrayal of the Phari-
sees, the Jewish hierarchy
which-coerces Judas to deliver
Jesus to them
and later per-
suades Pontius
Pilate to crucify
him. ‘

However, like the man hang-
ing from Jesus’ left, the ﬁlm has,
plenty of Jewish heroes. Do not
forget that the primary protago-
nist of the plot, Jesus, is Jewish.
His mother, the Virgin Mary, not
only is a Jewish character, but is
played by a Romanian Jew. John,
the disciple who follows Jesus all
the way to Golgotha and watches
after Mary, is Jewish. Simon of
Cyrene, the laborer who carries
Jesus’ cross for him when he is
too weak to carry it himself and
who fends off the mob from at-
tacking the beleaguered man, is
Jewish. Mary Magdalene, one of
Jesus’ followers—saved by the
phrase “he who is without sin, cast
the first stone”—loyally stands
beneath Jesus while he slowly
dies on the cross. Nicodemus,
the Pharisee who ardently de-
fends Jesus during the trial in front
of the Sanhedrin, is Jewish. The
“woman,” who brings Jesus a cup
of water and a shawl after he col-
lapses while carrying the cross, is
a Jew. Even Judas, who often in

THE l-FoRMA’noN“i‘
[AKE TROT1‘ER‘0i_

evil man, is portrayed sympatheti-
cally vulnerable instead of wicked.

Likethetwomencruciﬁed next
to Jesus, there are bad guys who
are Jews, and good guys who are
Jews in “The Passion.” A lot like
real1ife,isn’tit?

(I) Erin Julius did not go Fancy Dress. Ifyou see
her, try to cheer her up, especially if you’re a Keydet.

Q First on FD: The decorations were great and
the Voltage Brothers were awesome!

Q Another: Professors I’d love‘ to see at FD that
didn’t come—— Futch, Coach Stickley, Pleva,
DeLaney, McRae.

Q More: It was really terrible that the bars ran
out of soda and cups as early as 11:00.

(I) Still more: I enjoyed the slow dances. There
aren’t enough slow dances at W&L. You can’t ever
slow dance in a frat basement, so FD is really the
only opportunity.

Q Yet one more: Did anyone else notice a lot
more kissing and blatant, out-in—the—open chug-
ging from ﬂasks than in years past?

Q Still yet one more: Where was the chocolate
river?

Q Finally: I’m sick and tired of hearing coeds
complain about importing. They can do it as well,
but that would be admitting defeat.

Q Is anybody else hungry right now?

Q Here’s to a happy and safe un—Hell Week with
lots of un—hazing.

Q Stunningly, my pre-FD plans at the Mirage
didn’t have any takers. Same went for the after-
party at Dornino’s.

Q Thank heavens the Guerilla Girls have come
and gone and those miserable posters are no longer
a blight on our fair campus.

Q Congratulations to the St. Edward Eagles on
winning their ninth state ice hockey championship!

Q What is up with that girl playing the theme
from Forrest Gump in the Commons 24/7 on the
piano?

Q Whoever is blaring that annoying Eiffel 65
“Blue” song from Graharn—Lees needs to stop.

Q Beer goggles or Wonkavision?

Q “Raging Intellectuals”— little more than mali-
cious, hateful, childish whining. Garbage like that
shouldn’t be printed. '

Q I’m happy the Co-op is now carrying Diet Coke
with lime.
Q Do your part to keep our campus beautiful:

Don't walk on the grass.

Q E—mail your anonymous Quick Hits and laments
about the lack of fun Hell Week pranks to
phi@wlu.edu.

Christian lore is portrayed as an,

v!

‘V

 

