4".

 

Faculty Courseloads must
* drop to compete nationally

BY CATHERINE SWAN
STAFF WRITER

When looking at rankings for
the top liberal arts schools in the
nation, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity consistently stands out as
an institution that provides excel-
lent students an excellent education.
One ranking, however, that is not
always seen as positive is that of
the faculty teaching load

Among the U.S. News and
World Report Top 25 Liberal Arts
Colleges, the average number of
classes afaculty rnernberisexpected
toteachis4.88.W&L’scimentteach-
ing load is 6.5. This lower average
reﬂects a shift in education over
the past several years to a greater
integration of scholarship and re-
search into the teaching process.

With this shift comes the
concern that W&L will no longer
be able to attract top notch pro-
fessors while still maintaining a
teaching load that is not compa-
rable with that of similar ir1stitu—
tions. The high teaching load is
said to affect the ability of faculty
in some ﬁelds to continue advanc-
ing their scholarly pursuits while
still having enough time to ad-
equately teach their courses. Each
calendar proposal seeks ways to
reduce the faculty teaching load
in order to promote scholarship
and attract the most talented fac-
ulty.

“This is a place where scholar-
ship and teaching are intertwined.

Unrecognized AACIJ inserting itself into fall rush  

the best liberal arts colleges use the
intersection of teaching and schol-
arship to engage students in the pro-
cess of generating new knowledge,”
said Dean of the College Jeanine
Stewart.

Some believe that the high teaching
load currently hinders or will hinder
the university’s ability to attract the
best scholars and teachers. Although
some depamnents have encountered
problems in hiring, others have not
foimd the high teaching loadto be an
issue. '

"Ihere are some candidates that
have seen the courseload and shied
away. We have nothadthatbeaprob-
leminourabilitytohirequaliﬁedcan—
didates - yet,” said English Profes-
sor Suzanne Keen.

The Economics Department,
however, has a different story. They
recently lost ﬁve job candidates that
were drawn awayduetotheteaching
load Dean Stewart also stated that it
hadalsobeenafactorinseveralfac-
ulty members’ decisions to leave the
university, although she acknowl-
edges thatthehigliteaching load was
not the only reason they left

All three calendar proposals
outline ways the teaching load can
be reduced. Currently the adminis-
tration is looking to lower the teach-
ing load to six courses. Whether
further steps will be taken in the
future to bririg that number even
closer to the average is still being
discussed. The debate lies in which
calendar will provide the most efﬁ-
cient and least costly way to lower

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Freshmen guys may have noticed an insert to their IFC rushbook
or ﬂiers inviting them to parties in recent weeks. The unrecognized
Washington and Lee chapter of Alpha Delta Phi has been ﬁghting
hard to be included in fall rush this year. The rushbook insert and
party ﬂiers are examples of ADPhi having to, “work extra hard to

compete,” said Colby.

“We want to make fall rush an equal playing ﬁeld as it was
meant to be,” said ADPhi President Chris Colby in an email to on-

campus fraternity Presidents.

Colby notes both the advantages and disadvantages of an un-
recognized fraternity. An unrecognized fraternity would not be able
to use school property to hold meetings, nor could it participate in
school functions, such as Intrarnurals, as a sanctioned organization.
As for rush procedures, neither would an unrecognized ADPhi have
to obey IFC rush rules. Colby used the example of ADPhi being

the faculty teaching load while maxi-
mizing the faculty’s ability to re-
search and advance as scholars.
Although the 12-12-6 calendar pro-
posal states that “a 12-12-6 system
is easily accommodated to a 5-
course teaching load,” Dean
Stewart feels that the 14-14 calen-
dar would be more economical to
staff than a three-term calendar
would be.

Interms of facultyresearch,pro-
ponents of the 12-12-6 calendar state
thatthecui1entmodelisthemostcon—
ducive to scholarly pursuits. The 14-
14 calendar would require faculty to
spend more hours teaching in the
classroom. There is also a concern
that the elimination of the unique
courses offered dining spring term,
andthe therefore greater emphasis on
basic semester courses, would lead
to decreased intellectual stimulation
among the faculty.

Supporters of the 14-14 calen-
dar argue that this model would al-
low the university to attract the
most promising scholars. It is also
believed that this calendar will
prove more favorable to research
by adding two weeks to the sum-
mer and thus allowing more time for
research.

No matter what calendar is
eventually decided on, what re-
mains true is that W&L will con-
tinue to strive to attract the most
talented and promising faculty to
the university. “The calendar
does not drive what we do here;
it's the vessel,” said Stewart.

  T/re rtudem‘ wire of War/Jington and Lee Urzirerrin rirrre 1897

_. :4-.,+:. L

PH

VOLUME CVll,No.VHf 9 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

BURNED

During a party at Kappa Sigma’s country house, The Barn, there was a car bash that ended in fire.
“The ﬂames were at least 25 feet high,” said Kappa Sig junior Andy Clayton. The county sheriff
saw the ﬂames from a distance and called the fire department. “Nobody got hurt or anything,”

said Clayton.

 

Jr-:3 BROOKS/ THE R1NG—’I’UM PHI

allowed to extend bids to freshmen as early as October if it goes
unrecognized, however, “we don’t want to do that,” said Colby.
“We have no ill will towards any other fraternity, so we’re
asking for all the other fraternities not to have ill will towards us,”
said Colby, “we would much rather be recognized by the school
and obey the IFC rules because they do make rush fair.”
The initiation took place after the brothers, “were informed

that we are released [from SPE] with NIC approval,” said Colby. ~

The former brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon were ofﬁcially initiated as
brothers of Alpha Delta Phi on Friday night.

The administration has taken steps to inform the parents of the
new ADPhi brothers abou the steps that must be taken before the
fraternity is officially recognized by the University. In an email,
dated October 1, to the parents of the brothers, Brian Castleberry,
IFC Chair, Matt Jacobs IFC Advisor, Teresa Glassman, Director of
Students Activities and Greek Life, and Dawn Watkins, Dean of
students, discussed the issue of ADPhi dues, as well as outlined
the steps that must be taken for ADPhi to become an official frater-

lOO students turn out for Fall Service Day

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Saturday saw about 95
Washington and Lee students
turn out for a day of giving back
to the Lexington community.
Noble Stafford and Jill Waity
organized the Fall Service Day,
held this year for the ﬁrst time.

Kristen Crawford helped to or-
ganize the service sites.

The day of service ofﬁcially
started at noon, although a few
of the project such as the ser-
vice at the SPCA started earlier
in the day.

Khady Mbaye volunteered at the SPCA for Fall Service Day

“Over 110 people signed
up, and most people showed
up,” said Stafford.

The day involved service
work at several
different sites.
Several local
organizations
beneﬁted from
direct service.
Students
worked in the
SPCA, spent
time with the
residents of
the Mayﬂower
Retirement
Center, and
worked at
landscaping at
Waddell El-
ementary.

Other stu-
dents cleaned
the old Lime
Kiln ofﬁces on
Randolph St., because the local
Habitat for Humanity is moving
into that ofﬁce next week. Some
volunteers painted a house in
the Natural Bridge area and
gleaned apples early Saturday

Cr-m1snNE GRAY/RING-TUM PHI

morning.

The last service site was
Arc Acres, where students
did farming-type activities,

    

Dianne Winter also volunteered
at the.SPCA Saturday.

“Jill and I

such as paint-
ing fences.
“We trying
to make it an
annual event.
Jill created it
and we both
want to see it
again next
year and see
its success in
the future,”
said Stafford.
The Nabors
Service Day in
the Spring
usually draws
more volun-
teers, but it
has also been
in existence
much longer.
were surprised

by the great response of the

campus,” said
Students

Stafford.
who partici-

pated will be receiving T-

shirts.

nity on campus.

The steps to recognition are as follows: the IFC is awaiting
approval by the North American Interfraternity Conference (NIC) for
ADPhi to begin the colonization process at Washington and Lee.
After approval comes from the NIC, the IFC can choose to hear a
petition from the ADPhi members. If 75% of the IFC were to vote in
favor of ADPhi, the vote would move to the Students Affairs Com-
rnittee (SAC), where a majority vote wouldbe required for final ap-

proval for colonization.

The email also cites the NIC Constitution and By-Laws, section
3, “No member fraternity shall accept a petition for membership, grant
colony, or other affiliated status, or grant a charter to any group
substantially representing an existing or disassociated colony or
active chapter of another member fraternity, until the fraternity with
which such group was previously connected has officially given
written notice to the Conference that all rights have been waived by
them, or until ﬁve years have elapsed from the date of resignation or

disassociation.”

Media ﬁgure spoke friday

BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN
STAFF WRITER

On Friday, October 3, at
5:30, journalist and media ﬁg-
ure Steve Brill was the key-
note speaker at the kickoff to
the 36"‘ annual Institute on
Ethics in Journalism.

While introducing Mr.
Brill, head of the Institute and
professor Edward
Wasserman, said that the in-
stitute was founded in order
to make sure that “what pro-

_ fessors were teaching in the
classrooms would continue
into the newsroom” and help
practicing journalists.

By having professional
journalists and heads in the
journalism ﬁeld speak to jour-
nalism majors, it “exposes stu-
dents to the best minds in the
ﬁeld.”

Brill, the chosen speaker
at this year’s kickoff, is the
founder of Court TV, is cur-
rently a Newsweek columnist
and is a renowned journalist
in the areas of business and
law.

His address was entitled,

“Holding the Media Account-
able in the Age of Osama,
Kobe, and Arnold.” Brill said
that newspapers need to op-
erate by “their own sense of
right and wrong, not by what
the laws let you do.”

Brill spoke about the Sep-
tember 11'“ tragedies and the
media coverage, who, he said,
did “a really good job.” He
maintained that the media need
to be “disciplined” in its cov-
erage, and focus more on the
important issues of safety,
rather than placing blame.

Using the example of the

Patriot Act, Brill described 

journalists who had never read
the act before, but had either
condemned it as unworkable
or overly praised its effective-
ness.

“The Patriot Act is not
nearly as bad, new, or effec-
tive as the media portrays it to
be.” Brill also provided sugges-
tions for the government to get
involved in mass media, “We
can easily place obligations on
such media because the gov-
ernment provides such ben-
eﬁts already,” he said.

Freshmen: See page 4 for a Voters’ Guide for the elections on Tuesday, October 7, 2003

 

 

“-'PAcE2

« sity did not actually increase the number of

, new permanent faculty were also hired to re-

 

  
 

* . _ ‘=3
.,/.4,,,,,T{,Z,g'w_ 

OCT 0 8 2003

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE

STAFF WRITER

Last Thursday, the Executive Committee fi-
nalized its allocation of funds to Washington
and Lee student organizations. While students
may primarily associate the EC with the honor

' - code, distributing funds directly impacts every

student organization on campus.
The EC received applications from 52 stu-

H dent organizations for funding. This number ex-

cludes Traveller, who received $42,000 before
the allocation procedures. Overall Helen
Hughes, the president of the EC, admits “the
method definitely went pretty smoothly.”
Wednesday night half of the organizations

1' - presented proposals, each lasting ten minutes.

The EC interviewed every club immediately fol-
lowing their proposals, asking detailed expla-
nations for budget requests. The committee
knew the amount each organization had received
in previous years, along with other possible
supplements. The same procedure followed
Thursday night.

Friday morning, every student could see

- j the results of the EC’s effort by looking at cam-

pus notices. 17 organizations collected at least
$2,000, while numerous others received much
smaller amounts, and still others obtaining no

‘ funding. The Student Bar Association and the

Student Activities Board obtained the highest
amounts of $63,500 and $60,000 respectively.
The Student Bar Association is a neces-
sary feature of the Law School’s activities.
The co-President of the Student Activities
Board, Caroline Parker, expressed satisfaction
with the money the SAB received. “We asked
for $70,000 this year (which is how much we
received last year) and we got $60,000. That’s
about how much we expected, considering the
amount of organizations applying for money

N -‘l¥.3;‘ri

Executive Committee Allocates Money to Student Organizations

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

and this year’s Mock Con.” The SAB wants to
use their money to hold events with higher at-
tendance than those in the past.

As the SAB recognized, Mock Convention
obtained a sizeable portion of the funds in this
year’s allocations process. Hughes admitted
that “Mock Con was going to get a chunk of
the money.” Indeed, Mock Convention occurs
only once in every four years, and the EC sees
a need to keep adequately funding it, which
might result in some organizations getting less
money in a Mock Con year.

“The EC provides roughly 20 percent of
the overall Mock Con budget,” according to
the treasurer of Mock Convention, William
Litton. “We were very happy that the EC de-
cided to continue their support this fall with a
very generous donation.” I

Nine organizations received funding for
the first time. Some of these, like the WLUR,
previously acquired funding from different
sources. For instance, the WLUR no longer
acquires their funds from the Journalism De-
partment, so the EC now funds them. Other
organizations are newly formed groups, such
as inGeneral, a new student-run news and fea-
ture magazine that will be published bi-monthly
beginning this winter. '

The founder of inGeneral, Mina Azodi,
considered the EC reasonable in its allocation
and helpful to new organizations. “The EC has
been incredibly supportive in helping inGenera1

. throughout the recognition and budget pro-

cess, and we really appreciate that. During my
meetings with them they seemed genuinely
supportive and excited about our project.”
When asked about the process of budget allo-
cation for new organizations, Azodi added, “As
long as you’re well-prepared and really believe ir1
your project, it’s likely that the EC will be more
than willing to support you.”

Money. Did the EC give you any?

Not all organizations received money. Eight
organizations fall into this caten\gory. These
include Alpha Phi Omega, FLC, Kathekon, KEWL,
Media Board (formerly Publications Board), Or-
der of Omega, Phi Eta Sigma, and Ring—tum Phi.

Hughes attributed specific reasons for the lack
of funding for these organizations. Alpha Phi
Omega and Kathekon had not asked in the past.
The EC believed that other sources should fund
some of these organizations. “Perhaps IFC and
Panhel should fund the Greek Honor Society, Or-
der of Omega, and perhaps the Dean of Freshman
should fund the Freshmen Leadership Council.”

I razowskn .wG'ro '

“One well debated issue was KEWL,” accord-
ing to Hughes. The EC has funded KEWL (Knowl-
edge Empowering Women Leaders) in the past,
but members of KEWL must have taken a women’s
study’s class. “We thought this a bit restrictive.
Not everyone has time to take women’s studies
classes.”

The ﬁnal decision on funding may satisfy
some organizations and anger others, but the EC
did analyze every request before deciding on fund-
ing for the Fall. The EC will grant Winter supple-
ments to organizations who demonstrate a need

I’

New faculty members bring youth, accomplishment

BY CATHERINE SWAN

STAFF WRITER

This year the freshmen are not the only new faces on campus;
over 40 new faculty members have begun teaching at Washington

and Lee.
It is important to note that The Univer-

faculty on campus.
The majority of new faculty are visiting
members in one year positions, but several

place faculty that had just retired.

In an attempt to bring the most qualiﬁed
and capable professors to campus, deans and
department heads must maintain high stan-
dards for applicants.

“When I interview anyone that has a role
in dealing with students I look for their ability
to develop repor quickly, and openness. I look
for information that would clue me in about
their ability to deal with students,” said Dean
of the College Jeanine Stewart.

The English Department is one area of
the college that has been very active hiring
new faculty in the past several years, due to
the retirement of professors. The department
received anywhere between 150-300 applica— _
tions for any position.

“We have been very fortunate in hiring.
We have a young department ﬁlled with ac-
complished teachers,” said English Profes-
sor Suzanne Keen.

Keen emphasized that appropriate fit in
terms of field, past performance as a student
and scholar, and teaching experience as im-
portant factors in evaluating candidates.

The Sociology Department takes a very student—ori-
ented approach to hiring. Majors and prospective majors are
given the opportunity to have lunch with prospective candi-
dates, without any faculty present, giving them the opportu-

 

\llhslnngtmmﬂIeeUmversﬂy’sLeeC11apelar1dM11sannislnsungaLee
MerrxxialIeamemM<xxiay,O<1l3,feanningDLWﬂhan1S.Rasrrmsser1ad-
dressing‘NoOd1erCmnseWnl1oml)islxxxx”:TheIifeofRobertELee. The

speechisat 12:05 p.m.intheLeeChapel Admissionisfree.

Princeton Professor to Deliver Phi Beta Kappa Lecture

. Pnmetor1Umversityprofes¢mIemardBad<anwﬂldehvermePlnBetaKappa
Visiting Scholarlecture atwashingtonandbee on'Ihursday, Oct. 2, at7:00
pm. in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium. The lecture, “Shakespeare,
FoodandMe: OnDan'ngtoWriteaMemoir,”istheﬁ1stofaseries ofeventsas

partofthePhiBetaKappaV1sitingScho1arsprogram.

FEC Ollicial to Speak on Campaign Finance Refonn

BrarﬂeySnnﬂrvioedunnnmofﬂ£I3e(laalE1eaimComnﬁssi(nwiﬂspeal(m
campaignﬁnanoerefom1onMonday,Oct. 6,inc1assroornAatWashingtonand
LeeUnivexsity’sSchoolofI_aw. Srnith’s7p1n.speechwillfoo.1sor1theoor1stit11-
ﬁmalﬂyofﬂ1eMoCmneltnsesasﬂ1eyrelatetoa:rr1paig11ﬁriame1efmn

 New faculty replaces retired professors and those professors currently on sabbatical

nity to ask questions and gather information about the candi-
dates.

Each candidate is also given the opportunity to talk about their
research and present a classroom lecture. “Students perceptions
are taken very seriously,” said Novack.

Novack also stressed that the
kind of teacher his department
would be not only a quality in-
structor, but also a teacher that
showed signs of professional
growth.

There are also many reasons
why prospective faculty consid-
ers applying for a job at W&L.

“I chose to apply for this job
for several reasons: it has an ex-
cellent academic reputation, em-
phasizes teaching, and is close to
D.C. where most of my research is
focused. I am also a native of the
Blue Ridge area, so the opportu-
nity to be close to home was at-
tractive,” said Politics Professor
Celia Carroll.

Biology Professor Selina
Normaly accepted a visiting posi-
tion at W&L after first gaining ex-
perience at the University of Vir-
ginia.

“I was interested in trying
out the small college scene. Ev-

_ eryone had been fantastically
New Faculty. Professor Braunshnerder of the friendly and helpful,” Said

English department, new to the faculty last year. Nora_m]y_

All departments feel that
they have had great success in
hiring qualified faculty, and this year is no exception.

“We are very successful in retaining new hires. By and
large, our faculty are well supported here, they are happy here.
These are people who express genuine enthusiasm for the com-
munity and the people they have encountered,” said Stewart.

mu 2.91 mg .1‘ Jane :4

HOUSE FOR RENT
in Rockbridge Baths on Maury River
2 bedroom, 2 bath
central air, ﬁreplace
$850 + security deposit and references
call evenings 703-503-8239

for money.

Traveller whinnies

The members of the Traveller Steering Committee would
like to clear up some confusion. There has been a lot of
confusion among the student body over what Traveller of-
fers. Also there has been some conﬂict between students
and drivers. We would like to set the record straight.

Traveller’s service for this year has changed slightly
from last year’s service. We have eliminated the van ser-
vice on Sunday and Tuesday nights. We cut those nights
because nobody was using them. The cutback was not due
to a lack of funds. The Traveller Steering Committee works
diligently to accurately serve student needs. The cutback
was in response to a lack of need, not a lack of money.

A more important issue is the conﬂict between drivers
and students. The van drivers have been getting undue
criticism. Our insurance policy states that the van can only
hold eleven people, including the driver. So when the driver
says only ten people can ride in the van, it is not because
he’s a jerk, it is not because he’s on a power trip, and it is
not because he doesn’t like you. It is because overloading
the van is unsafe. The driver is looking out for your well-
being as well as ensuring obedience to our insurance policy.
If the van has more than 11 people in it, the driver would be
solely liable for all passengers, should anything happen.
Students who insist upon overloading the van are putting
the driver in an unfair position. They are putting them-
selves and the system in danger. So if you’re the twelfth
person, just be patient and wait for the next van, or get a
sober ride from whoever is hosting the party.

As we mentioned earlier, the Traveller Steering Com-
mittee constantly working to best serve student needs. We
realize that the current van system is imperfect. We are
researching ways to transport more people in larger and
safer vehicles. But it is important to remember that Travel-
ler currently offers a more comprehensive safe ride service
than any school in the nation. So for now, remember to be
nice to the drivers. After all, they’re doing all they can to
get you home safely.

Signed,
GASD (Generals Advocating Safe Driving), Traveller Steer-
ing Committee

Want to save a life?
Want to save three
lives?

Donate a pint of

Gap

 Crew

Ann ‘Taylor
Lilly Pulitzer»
Ralph Lauren

20 West \Vashingt‘0n“St'reet _

Open Monday-S aturday 10-5

 

Lexington,:'Virgi"nia 0 (540) 462-6288 0 temptrne4@lycos.corrn
Fine Resale: Apparel  Vintage Collectables

blood at

Chi Psi s

bloodrive
Wednesday in
the Doremus.

  

it

 

   
 

 

 V "nae RiNt.§~’_3lt.hf PH: omonsaim
 MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 29, 2003 V PAGE 3
« PINIONS it ”“

 Sijtipiﬁﬁuiieunt - ames are art, not trash

Student safety = party priority

 

Washington and Lee parties are
incredible, we all love them. They are
lacking one thing, though: safety. One
u need only look at the recent Kappa
Sigma debacle to see the dangers of
drunken debauchery. While some be-
lieve that such an outcome is the tar-
.‘ get for which all fraternities should
shoot, we consider students’ lives to be
paramount. We should ask student or-
ganizations to carefully consider all of
their activities. Events and parties can
often pose a danger to the participants,
and we believe that in many cases, the
danger is too much to tolerate.

The destruction of a car near a ﬁre
is not wise, as any individual with a mo-
dicum of knowledge about the interac-
tion of fire with the human body could
tell you. Unfortunately, this rather fun
annual event was banned from campus
after a very serious injury was sustained
by a freshman last year. Instead of re-
alizing the danger of the event, and per-
“ haps altering the format or ditching the
event altogether, its planners decided to
take it to the country. It is great that
many people had fun at the event, how-
‘ _ if . ; ever more people could have been in-
jured, or dare we say it, killed?

Even fraternity basements have
ti, A risks, no matter what fraternity it is
' ' that’s invoved. Alot of our parties early
on this year have been packed tighter
than a sardine can. Imagine a cata-
strophic fire like the one in Rhode Is-
land last year, and you can see the po-
tential hazard of a frat basement full
of students with very few, narrow ex-
_ i‘_ ists. Fellow Washington and Lee stu-
5 dents, all that we ask is that you pay
attention to your surroundings and be
aware of the dangers that you face and

4 _ accept when having fun. Don’t get us
' i wrong, we love our fun as much as any-
one-else on campus.» In fact, several
of us lookbackeontthe car -burningvat‘
‘ 4 . The Barn as the highlight of our week-
end. Generals, do have fun, but be
safe and keep your eyes open. Try to
o" stay away from doing anything that we
wouldn’t do, which admittedly isn’t
much.

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF t/mnderbo/take mu/e
Too VIOLENT? The protagonist of huge video game hit Grand Theft Auto: Vice City explores the ﬁner points of using a ﬂame thrower

But this is besides the point. The point that I object to is the one
made by the uninformed, that video games inherently make people vio-
lent and “rot their brains” so to speak, because of their immersive and
addictive nature, and due to the violence presented in them. -

Video games are not trash. Ironically, people who offer the “video
games are addictive” point are often people who spend hours each day
watching television. Video games are no more addictive than TV or mov-
ies. They cannot “rot your brain.” Science shows us that, if anything,
video games improve reﬂexes and strengthen neuron
synapses, the same effect that playing chess or solving
logic puzzles have on the brain. So says a recent study
from the University of Rochester in New York. Video
games can even be educational in some cases (the World
War II Medal of Honor series, for instance, has remark-

Whenever the question is asked “why are today’s children so vio-
lent,” a list of usual suspects comes up. Among the list of contribu-
tors to the “culture of violence,” are video games. Parents, media
outlets, and politicianstare always blaming, among these other things,
the presence of violence of video games for the problems in the minds
of America’s youths. Not only that, they call them drugs, electronic
narcotics that dull the mind and alter the mental state of those who
play them.

But as usual, America’s media outlets and politi-
cians have found a scapegoat rather than an answer.
The facts of the matter indicate that video games are
really not an inciter of violence, and science has proven
that the only alteration to the mental state of those
playing video games is the same relaxing effect that d 1
reading a book has. By blaming, among other’thing_:s',_y_ide,(,)_ V ame_s,__we 3t_iie histotie3i 3ee1ii'3ey).
are only making the Problem worse by Wastingour efforts on '2i1il1'sie1e's'sii. ii‘ i Biit heyoiidthat. Video games are 3it- They 3ie 3it in the s3me W3y
cause  A ' '  . that film is art. The only differences are that video games are on a some- . ‘ . ‘

The typical argument from the concerned parent/firebrand po1iti_ what smaller screen and allow interaction from the viewer/user, whereas
cian, etc. is this: “The portrayal of large amounts of violence in video moyies 3Fe oh 3 i3Ige sereeii 3nd aiiow ho ihtei3etioh-
games is inherently dangerous because of the example and incentive Are Video g3mes Vioiehtr-' Sure But so 3Ye moVies- Sometimes
of violent behavior it provides to its young, impressionable players.” Vioieiiee is 3 me3iis to 3h 3i'tistie ehd- The Ptohiem is With Paiehts hot
Firstly, video games are no more “inherently dangerous” than movies. Pioteotiiig their Children from oeYt3iii 83mes- Siiie: ah 8"ye3i' oiti shoiiidhit
And secondly, like movies, video games have ratings designating what Piay Grand Theft Auto? Vice City (an excellent game), but neither shoilid
audience they are meant for. And like movies, young kids cannot pur- 311 8'3/eat oid View S3Vihg Pi'iV3te Ryan (3Ii eXeeiieI1tmoVie)~ Peopie Who
chase video games for mature audiences. Thus, when little kids DO Pi3y Video g3mes know that they eoht3ih dt3m3» Comedy» 311d teii stories
get their hands on 3 Vieient game, it’s the parents’ Own fuuit for put- in a unique interactive way that makes the viewer/user feel a part of it all
chasing it in the first place while having fun playing the game. The superior and subtle design and

A fair objection that may be offered at this point is that many immense eiiloy3biiity of some games is» ih my opihioiia 3ft of the highest
video game retailers do not do enough to enforce the laws on the kind-

 books by preventing underage kids from getting mature games. This Video 83mes 3Ieh’t the Problem Theyite Vioiehts but not the Prob"

44 7 - - - unit, which is 3 inner one made 1, enatei nu presidential eandi_ lem. Neither are movies or TV. The roblem are the parents who fail to
You can twm the war on termnsmlfyou gate Joseph Liebermjan (D-Conn.) hhsstruth man, and I do agree that supervise their children and take resptiinsibility for What they are exposed
make your Own Justice Department into not enough is being done at the moment to step kids from buying to. Video games are a form of artistic expression and entertainment that

games they sheu1dn’t_ are to be valued, not dismissed as “trash media.”
~General Wesley Clark (Democratic
candidate for President, on the USA
-' Pat1iotAct)

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor
News Editor

"M6B§é7i7ii~Es M65635”
CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

 

   

to te of the Week

     

 

Opinions Editor

Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Production Assistants

Copy Editor
Editorial Director

Business Manager

Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan

Cody Gabbard
Allison Perry

John Hyland

Hilary Henry

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Anne Iadarola

Katie Howell

Paul Seifert

Circulation Director
Distribution Dir

     

Henry G1-imball
Thomas Worthy

 

OF Is. r. [0 14

 

OTO COUR

The R,-,,g_,u,,, Phi‘ is published Mondays during IMPROVING PARENTAL CONTROL. The X—Box lets parents program in games that should be blocked from their children. The X-Box will then refuse to play that game.
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

I The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
A necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of hbel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
‘_ University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

  
 

“Dean Watkins"
-Catherine Camilletti ‘O6

       

“Fiolessor' West-Settle”
—Jennay Scott ‘06

“ I Cox.
Can I get some extra chem credit?”
—Amy Bacastow ‘06

“Alex Brown”
-Professor Ted DeLaney

“Dave”
-Amanda Hughes ‘06

 

    

PAGE 4



MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

Take a break— U.S. citizens too pressured to succeed

. Where are the happiest people located?
Well, according to a survey conducted by
the World Values Survey, Nigeria contained
the happiest people on earth amongst a list
of 65 countries. Next in line of happiness
levels are Mexico, Venezuela, El Salvador and
Puerto Rico. The United States

sense of self-esteem as indicators while the
Japanese strive to meet family expectations,
fulfill social responsibilities, and be self-dis-
ciplined, cooperative, and friendly. The ac-
tions necessary to achieve happiness in
America require much time and leaves little

personal time and even less

ranked 16"‘ on the list. TRAIN OF THOUGHT time for building relation-
Isn’t it ironic that the ‘ ships. American society in-
world’s wealthiest nation is   grains the idea that to be

 

not the happiest yet one of
the world’s underdeveloped
countries” is the happiest? When I heard this
statistic on CNN, I wasn’t terribly surprised
but I was curious as to why this is the case.
We’ve always heard the saying money can’t
buy happiness, and this survey clearly indi-
cates that there is some truth to that state-
ment. I’ve also heard that America is infa-
mous for having one of the highest, if not
the highest, statistics for depression. Why
is it this so? Do Americans have lower lev-
els of serotonin? We have it all in America
so what is up?

I have a theory. According to this sur-
vey, Americans place importance on personal
success, self-expression, pride, and a high

successful and happy, one

must have big paychecks,
nice houses, fancy cars, and designer clothes.
That’s why we are at Washington and Lee
University living from day to day on less than
6 hours of sleep. Success in America de-
mands a total commitment of time, energy,
and health all at the expense of our personal
happiness.

This summer, I got a chance to teach high
school students at Yale and some of them
were international students. One of my fa-
vorites was a student from Japan, and dur-
ing one of our conversations, we touched
upon the subject of American life. Our way
of life makes no sense to her because we have
no time to ourselves. We have no time to

rest our minds. We have no time to enjoy
each other and ourselves. We have no time
to just sit and breathe. Simply put, we just
have no time. Our time is spent studying,
working, and running from place to place. In
her country, they take time from their day to
rest, see friends and family, and to just chill.
And IMing and cell phones do
not constitute catching up
with friends. Actually meet-
ing them in person to discuss
things other than academics
and just have idle chatter and
giggle and laugh is spending
quality time.

We are so wrapped up in becoming success-
ful that we forget that it’s people who matter. It
doesn’t matter how many pairs of shoes we have
or how many diplomas we may have on our wall.
At the end of the day, they will not be able to put
their arms around me and give me some needed
TLC. When we reach our old age, our accumula-
tions of material goods will not give us peace.
It’s the people around us loving us who will give
us peace.

I am a usually optimistic person with a fairly
upbeat personality, but there are days that I am

Simply put, we just
have no time.
is spent studying,
working, and running

definitely blue and I can’t figure out why
because nothing bad happened to me. No
bad grades on a test, no parking tickets or
towings, nothing. But I just feel blue.
Now looking back at those times, I realize
that I was down because I hadn’t seen my
friends all day and I hadn’t been able to
have a long conversation
with my father. Instead, I
had been running from one
place to the next attending
meetings or doing school-
work.

The advice I often give to
friends when they are upset about some-
thing that has occurred is to just go with
the flow. But now I’m reconsidering.
Maybe the problem is that we are too of-
ten times going with the flow instead of
against it. The natural flow in our society
is to do, do, do; climb, climb, climb; and
work, work, work. Perhaps it is time for us
to reconsider our path in life and perhaps
go against the grain and flow. It may take
us to the top of the economic ladder, but
leave us at the bottom of the emotional
ladder. Just some food for thought.

Our time

Blame ESPN, not Limbaugh

Rush Limbaugh resigned from his post on ESPN’s Sunday NFL
Countdown this past week as a result of controversy stemming
from a comment he made about Philadelphia Eagles quarterback
Donovan McNabb. On last Sunday’s show, Rush said, “Sony to
say this, I don’t think (McNabb) has been that good from the get-
go; I think what we’ve had here is a little social concern in the NFL.
The media has been very desirous that a black quarterback do well,
black coaches and quarterbacks doing well. There is a little hope
invested in McNabb, and he got a lot of credit for
the performance of this team that he didn’t de-
serve. The defense carried this team.” While some
people may consider this comment ignorant or sim-
ply incorrect, Rush did not deserve to be forced
into resignation.

ESPN hired Rush Limbaugh to be a commentator on Sunday
NFL Countdown for one reason: to create controversy. He has
little knowledge about football, but certainly has a knack for mak-
ing debatable commentary. In the pure—numbers universe of cable
television, ratings are everything. ESPN sought to improve its rat-
ings by bringing in a ﬁgure who could pluck the emotional strings
of its viewers. In accordance with his purpose for being on the
show, Rush did just that. He made a jaw-dropping comment on live
television that created immediate controversy. How can a man be
faulted for doing his job?

I, for one, do not agree with Rush. I don’t think the media was
looking for an African—American darling to shower with praise sim-
ply because of his skin color. Two years ago, Donovan McNabb

 

SLICE ON LIFE
NICK MANNING ‘O7

finished second in MVP voting for the entire league. He led the
Philadelphia Eagles to two straight NFC Championships with a very
suspect supporting cast, and has been to three straight Pro Bowls.
Every offer of praise McNabb has received is weH deserved. How-
ever, I don’t think Rush should be out of a job because his football
commentary is unjustiﬁed. All blame in this matter should fall on
the laps of the big wigs at ESPN. These executives had to know
what they were getting into when they hired Rush Limbaugh. This
man has built his career on controversy. On his
syndicated radio show, Rush tackles divisive top-
ics with unrestrained fervor. Sirnply put, this is how
the man makes his living. IfESPN wanted to spike
ratings, it should have taken a different approach.
Turning Sunday NFL Countdown into CNN’s
Crossfire was not a wise business decision. Political and social
commentary has no place on ESPN. It is a network dedicated solely
to sports, and should remain that way for its enthusiastic viewing
audience.

While Rush Limbaugh’s comment was obviously discordant,
his intention was justified. He followed ESPN’s instructions and
analyzed an issue from his contentious perspective. Rush’s res-
ignation followed a day’s worth of harsh criticism from around the
country. Selﬂessly, he left ESPN “to protect network employees
from the uproar” of his criticism. Rush should not be condemned
for stating his opinion. I blame ESPN for making a poor business
decision in the matter. Unfortunately, some people will not recog-
nize that Rush simply did his job and was punished for it.

   
   

PHOTO COURTESY OF 1:/11/11/. 11/e/zlmm
RUSH IS RIGHT AND WRONG. Rush Limbaugh was deﬁnitely wrong about

MVP Pro Bowler Donovan McNabb, but it was a poor decision to hire a
man who makes politican commentary to do sports, and the blame
needs to go to ESPN. Rush does politics, and ESPN shouldn’t be
surprised to hear controversial commentary from a controversial man.

Dean of Students, as well as
their respective support
staffs, (who all also previ-
ously had adequate office
space on-campus)...” This
makes the unfortunate impli-

Editorial Note

In the September 15 is-
sue of the Ring-tum Phi, I
wrote the following: “Let’s
also not forget the inclu-

bers who have offices in the
commons do their jobs
poorly; in fact, I strongly
support these administrators
and staff members as being
some of the best, brightest,

hardworking staff members
who have offices in the new
commons do not interact with
students and don’t have im-
portant business related to
students. It was not at all my

ing the new Deans’ offices in
the Commons was a good
idea, it was not an absolute
necessity that mandated the
construction of the Com-
mons, nor were any of the

may have offended with
this poorly-thought-out
statement. I take respon-
sibility for the misplaced
words, and I am sorry for
the entire problem.

sion of the new non—stu-
dent offices, including that
of the Dean of Freshmen,

cation that the Dean of Stu-
dents and Dean of Freshman,
their staffs, and the other

intention to imply that Dean
Watkins, Dean Leonard, or
any of the other staff mem-

and hard—working people on
campus. My intention was
merely to say that, while plac-

other reasons I mentioned.
Nevertheless, I would like to
apologize to all the parties I

—Opinions Editor
Caley Anderson

Washington and Lee’s Class of 2007 will be holding its first election on 'I\1esday,
October 7, 2003 with runoffs (if necessary) the following Thursday and Monday. The
Class will vote for its representative to the Executive Committee, its representative to
the Student Judicial Council, and the Freshman Class President.

The students elected to these Respective Ofﬁces are being entrusted to continue
Washington and Lee’s legacy of student governance. As such, the Class of 2007

RING-TUM PHI

FRESHMAN Vo'rER’s GUIDE

should thoroughly examine each of the candidates to determine which one is most
qualiﬁed to execute the powers and the duties of the respective office. The Voting
Regulations Board urges all freshmen to participate in this time honored practice.

Sincerely,
Voting Regulations Board

Editor's Note. The candidates were asked to make
50 word statments about their positions on the
follwing issues:

Candidates for EC

Address issues such as budget allocations, the
University’s ban on music sharing and general stu-
dent happiness.

Candidates for SJ C

Cover how you plan to deal with students with
alcohol and drug infractions as well as your opin-
ions on appropriate sentencing and the

3-strike system.

Candidates for FLC President
Discuss your plans for class unity. Include any
ideas you have for specific class activities.

EC I_{epresentaﬁve

David Colman: I believe that file sharing should
not be dealt with by the EC, but rather by the
school’s administration]. Budgets must be allocated
to the groups that best employ and beneﬁt W&L’s
students. Student happiness should be one of the
first things taken into account in any decision, yet
student safety must always come first.

Joshua Florence: When it comes to music sharing,
I do not disapprove of it, however, since the ad-
ministration has disallowed it, I would have to en-

force their decision. As for student happiness, I
think we attend a great, but if there is ever anything
that I could do to make someone’s experience bet-
ter, then please do not hesitate to ask.

Davin Hunt: My positions are an increased bud-
get allocation percentage for Traveller, no ban on
student file sharing, and no more ban on fraternity
activities while the school is hosting events.

Diane Kuhn: I am running for the EC because
the Honor System here is unbelievable. I agree
with the ban on ﬁle-sharing, because it is sim-
ply complying with a national policy. If elected,
I will be open to everyone’s thoughts on school
policies and changes~every freshman will have
a say.

Lane Morgan: I have the utmost conﬁdence that
the Executive Committee did their best to remain
economical in detemiining the budget this school
year. While I am unhappy with the music—sharing
ban, I respect the decision made to protect W&L in
this controversial issue. It would truly be an honor
to serve the Class of 2007 on the Executive Com-
rnittee.

Rob Rain: IfI am elected to the executive committee
I will do my best to insure that our honor system is
upheld and enforced so that we can continue to
enjoy our current honor privileges. I will also try to
help allocate fair and appropriate funds for each
organization on campus

SJC Representative

Andrew Gulotta: I mimic Chris Rock in delivering
the wonderful message of “No sex in the Cham-
pagne Room.” I firmly believe in the three-strike
system, andl am willing to administer it. Whether
you vote for me or not, do yourself a favor: have a
good time, but be safe and mindful of yourself and
others.

Khaki Howe: The SJC is set up to uphold the tra-
dition of one’s responsibility at WLU. The penal-
ties of the SI C are appropriate. Although at times
they seem too severe, they are here to protect the
safety of students. The beauty of the three strike
system is that it allows you to make a mistake and
be able to redeem yourself without getting kicked
out of school.

Virginia Sadler: Like most incoming freshmen, I
came to Washington and Lee University believ-
ing that these would be the best years of my life.
During these next four years and beyond I will
be given so much by the Washington and Lee
community (faculty, staff, and alumni) that I feel
it is both an honor and a privilege to give back
what I can. As the SJ C representative I hope to
honestly and fairly represent the wishes of the
student body when dealing with drug and alco-
hol issues.

Freshmen Class President

Maria Blackwell: The Class of 2007 has a bright
future ahead of it. As your class president, I will
work with the FLC to plan great events that will
bring us closer together, so that we can have an
unforgettable freshmen year.

Tye Haeberle: Ifl were to state numerous promises
I had for the year ahead, they would not represent
the wishes of the student body. Instead they would
represent my own personal desires. Therefore, the
only promise I make is students’ voices will be the
biggest factor when planning events for the next
year.

Moses Tucker Lafﬁtte, IV: Quick issues: Spring
Term. . . Love it. Strike Policy... Hate it. I believe the

Greek System to be one of the most positive as— ’

pects of social life at W&L, and believe the
University’s crackdown is undercutting one of our

best features. I also encourage intramural/club team . »

sports.

Rhett McCraw: I, Rhett McCraw, as your class presi-
dent plan on creating a fun and exciting atmosphere
all year. My goal is to bring the class together
through fun and excting events. Some speciﬁc
points of mine are to, increase freshman voice in
student government, hold concerts and other par-
ties, and perhaps even a class trip at spring break
or in the summer (cruise, Cancun, etc.).

 

  

AIHSONPERRY
Sroms Eonor

mm m

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

A focused attitude has proved a winning tool
for the Washington and Lee Women’s Soccer
team.

The girls can now claim a winning record (8-0-l)
after their respective victories to: Mary Baldwin,
Randolph-Macon Women’s College, and Greensboro
college.

The Generals were victorious against Mary
Baldwin with a sweeping (7-0) score. Freshman
Anne Wiltshire scored and added an assist to her
record. Other goal-earners included sophomore
Kerry Giblin, freshman Sarah Helms, junior Liz
Clarke. M

Junior Maggie Hope made two assists. Senior
Heather Coleman and freshman Cara Burton each
claimed one.

Freshman Emily Binns further protected the Gen-
erals perfect game by blocking the only shot by Mary
Baldwin.

“We go in to every game with the same atti-
tude.” said freshman Sarah Helms of the win. “We
get focused for every game and play our best
against every team. This is what helps us perform
so well.”

Football loses
tight one, 15-9

tage.

STOP. Senior linebacker Ben Krasnoff had nine tacles and one sack Saturday.

BY CAMERON GARNER
SPORTS WRITER

W&L traveled to Randolph-Macon on Saturday to play the 0-4 Yellow
Jackets.

Unfortunately, the General’s road problems continued as they dropped a
close one 15-9. FreshmanBenLongwas 3-for-3 inwindy conditions including
a career high 42-yard ﬁeld goal.

Senior captain Ben Krasnoﬁledan amazing defensive elfortthatincluded
two huge defensive stops, one leading to a missed ﬁeld goal at the end of the
ﬁrst overtime.

After the Yellow Jackets scored a touchdown in the second overtime,
ﬂreyﬁnedupandnnssedmepomtaﬁer,givingﬂreGeneralsaclmmetocome
away with a double-overtime win.
'I‘heGeneralsdr‘ovedowntheﬁeld,ﬁnallycomingtoa4"' andgoalonthe 12
yard line, but Peter Dean’s pass to junior Taylor Callaham was well-defended
andtheGerIeralscouldn’toomeupwithfadepasstowir1thegame.

Deanwas11—for-26withl2»4yards, andthetwoheadedrushingattackof
freshman Richard Garland and sophomore Michael Iackett combined for 1 19
yards.

ThedefensewassnongasusuaL1eadbyKrasnofI”,withninetacklesand
one sack

'IheGeneralsgetbacktoactionathorneagainstCatholicat1:30this
Saturday.

PORTS

Women’s Soccer improves record to 8-0-1  

The team then took on RMWC where
Wiltshire again left her mark, scoring the game win-
ning goal for the Generals (2-1) off of an assist
from freshman Rebecca Cohn. Giblin took rights
to the only other goal by W&L off of a cross from
sophomore Heather Rogers.

Certainly the sweetest victory was at
Greensboro. The host team, celebrating
Parent’s Weekend, had the home-ﬁeld advan-

The girls walked into the game pumped after
last year’s close dual. They left victorious (2-0).
Wiltshire again led the team with her second game-
winning goal of the season.

Captain and Senior Fontaine Marcoux pro-
ceeded to secure the victory for the Generals with
her score off of a header with an assist by fresh-
man Blair Haws.

Junior Emily Barker protected the W&L net
with a save on a shot by Greensboro.

“It’s an exciting season  said Helms of the
team’s success. “We have a really young team,
but through their leadership, the upperclassmen
have done a great job of showing us how to
achieve success.”

The team looks forward to further victories
and a shot at playoffs in the near future.

 Rrsxrxrrnwr Per

PAGE 5 "

POWER. SENIOR FORWARD FONTAJNE MARCOUX PREPARES TO KILL A SHOT IN LAST WEEI<’s HOME GAME.

‘Hoos cometo Lexington, Men’s

lacrosse looks sharp in preseason 

the ego and the body of UVA’s sophomore standout midﬁelder Kyle. ‘ E ‘ »_

BY CAMERON GARNER
SPORTS WRITER

Tuesday night, UVA’s D-I national championship team rolled
into town having been in fall ball for over two months, ready to
play a green W&L team with just eight practices under their
belts.

Although the Cavs started their ﬁrst team the entire first
quarter and much of the second, W&L looked sharp and limited
them to two goals in the ﬁrst quarter.

Mostly in scouting mode, the Generals moved the ball well,
working out the kinks of a new year and seeing how the fresh-
men would react to the highest level of competition.

Even as W&L controlled the ball for minutes on end, the
notoriously stingy Wahoo defense didn’t allow a goal until the
third quarter when senior Dustin Martin beat his midﬁelder run-
ning left and bounced a shot past honorable mention All-Ameri-
can senior goalie Tillman Johnson.

Adam Chesbrough would later say about the General’s play:
“we played really well, but in all honesty, its hard to play poorly
when you have Jack “body” Murray on your team, I mean, he’s
sublime.”

To this, Body retorted, “well, I’m just one man, but Adam
Chesbrough, wow, he’s an amazing athlete.”

Bill Fox got in on the action as well, saying “J ack and Adam?
Did they get in the game? I couldn’t tell cause I was too busy
dominating. . .bOoyah.”

The highlight of the game came late in the fourth quarter as
W&L junior goalie Pat “GPrep” Casey absolutely demolished

Dixon.
Pat would later say, “I mean, it’s not that unusual, I crush people
on and off the ﬁeld.”

Washington and Lee got great performances out of their": 

defensemen as they went up against some of the toughest competi-
tion they’H face all year.

Senior Lawson Grumbine, and juniors Eric Koch and Bill Fox did ,
extremely well against the nation’s all-around best attack unit of Christ- ’

mas, Ward, and Yevoli.
Grumbine did an exceptional job handcufﬁng All-American
J ohrmy Christmas and allowing him only a few shots all game.

Junior Ben Morris, sophomore Andrew Edelston, and freshman- , L *

Charley McCombs looked sharp as well.
The midﬁeld, experienced and deep, looked solid as they played
a largely ﬂawless game, creating turnovers and controlling the of-

fense. The attack, rnissing leading goal scorer senior Matt Fink and‘ ~ «

two-year starter Gavin Molinelli, played well against a big, physical
UVA defense.
If Ansel Sanders played half as well for half the time, then he

would be playing twice as well as half the people thought. . .wait, what? , ~

Ansel was dominant as usual; he controlled the game for minutes at a
time before graciously stepping aside and allowing other people a
chance to get some time.

Martin had two goals and senior Rich Williams added another for
the Generals.

Washington and Lee’s next action is this Saturday in the armual
Alumni game at 9:00 am (whoa, 9:00 am exists on Saturdays?) on the
turf, be there or be. . .sleeping.

 

Riding team opens season at Radford

BY KATHERINE SHELL
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
Riding Team opened their year on
Sunday, October 5, 2003 at the
Radford Invitational.

This year’s captains are Sa-
rah Murray ’06 and Sarah
Michaels ’04. The team has ﬁf-
teen members: twelve will be com-
peting on the ﬂat and three over
the fence. The over the fence rid-
erswillberiding on the ﬂataswell.

Competing at Radford as
over the fence riders will be Capt.
Sarah Michaels ’04, Hayley Skin-
ner ’06, and Caitlin Lane ’06.

“We’re really looldng forward
to Radford because this is going

to be a big year for us,” Capt. Sa-
rah Murray said.

Three new riders have been
added this year: Brynne Archer
’07, Brittany Bansak ’07, and Jean-
Rose Clarwater ’07.

Bansak and Clarwater will
both be riding in this week’s com-
petition as ﬂat riders.

Results of the invitational
were not available at press time.

“Our three new members are
excellent additions to an experi-
enced team; we’ve got talented
riders in every division and I think
we’ll be a strong presence in the
shows this year. Last season was
our best to date, and we’re hop-
ing to make our fifth year even
better,” Murray says.

  

COURTESY or ]EFF'E.RYVMCKENZ[E.TRlPOD.COM
GOOD LUCK. The riding team hopes to do better than last year.
Last year proved to be the best season in history for the Generals.

Monday, October 6 Tuesday, October 7

Wednesday, October 8

SCHEDULE

Friday, October 9 S“"”'day, 0010597‘ 10

Sunday, October 11

Golf at Greensboro--TBA
M tennis at I TA--TBA

Golf at Greensboro--TBA

M Soccer at Lynchbur -- Volleyball at SCAD W Tennis hosts W&L CIas- W Tennis hosts W&L
4:00 tournament--TBA sic—IBA Classic--T BA

W Soccer at Randolph- Field Hocky vs. Voﬂeybad at SCAD tourna-

Macon--4:00 Bridgewater-- 7:00 ment-TBA

Volleyball at _ Riding at ODAC’s -- M Soccervs. Rke.-11:00

Bridgewater--6:30 TBA Footbaﬂ vs. C¢ahoI1'c—1:30’

W Soccer vs. S. Briar—3:00
Field Hockey vs. Juniata—
4:00

Cross Country at State Meet-—
TBA

 

   

 

PAGE 6



Men’s soccer remains

undefeated, 5-0-2 overall

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The mark of a good team is
its ability to get the job done
without playing its best. The

j Washington and Lee men’s soc-

cer team proved that they are a
good team in earning a hard

3 ' - j fought 0-0 tie last Wednesday at

Randolph—Macon (5-2-1, 0- 1- 1
ODAC) in an ODAC contest.
Coming off the heels of a 3-
1 victory over ODAC juggernaut
Hampden-Sydney last Saturday,
the Generals’ scoreless tie may
not have been as pretty, but it
was every bit as satisfying.
This sentiment was reiterated

I by junior goalkeeper Chris “DJ I

got this” Carlson who commented
after the game, “We deﬁnitely did

' - not play our best today but we are

very happy to get a tie.”

‘ Washington and Lee was
outplayed the entire game, sur-
rendering a season high 15
shots. The Generals offense,
which has been stellar the entire
year, scoring at least two goals
on every game was shutout and

1 ' 5‘ held to a season low 3 shots.

The Yellow Jackets defense
kept the Generals offensive super-
star, junior forward Brian Pirkle,

‘ ‘ without a shot the entire game.

The difference for the Gen-
erals were their goalkeepers, who
kept the potent Yellow Jacket of-

' ‘I fense in check.

Sophomore Michael
Stanton played the first half,
making 3 saves. But it was
Carlson who stepped up his
game when the rest of the team
did not. The California native
made 6 saves, including 3 key
stops in overtime to preserve the
tie and keep W&L unbeaten in
the ODAC on the season, with a
mark of 1-0-2.

The Generals got back on
track Saturday night in a non-
conference game against the Sa-
varmah College of Art and De-
sign. Unlike their previous out-
ing, the Generals wasted no time
in getting on the scoreboard.

Seniorrnidﬁelderlacobstoehr
found junior defender Peter Miller
for a goal just 11 minutes into the
game. Washington and Lee ex-
tended its lead to 2-0 on a score off
of a penalty kick by sophomore
midﬁe1derDei1ickLott

SCAD cut the lead in half
on a score early in the second
half but the Generals were able
to preserve the victory, despite
being out shot 17-16.

Stanton and Carlson once
again split time in goal and made
3 saves apiece. The Generals re-
main undefeated on the season
with a record of 5-0-2.

Washington and Lee travels
to Lynchburg on Wednesday be-
fore retiiming home to face con-
ference leader Roanoke on Satur-

day. TURN AROUND. Junior Peter Miller dribbles around the competition.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

Other Sports

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Volleyball wins three this week, now 13-2 overall

The Washington and Lee volleyball team defeated Guilford,
3-0 on Tuesday in matches of 30-18, 30-19, 30-13.

The Generals also defeated Roanoke 3-1 and Methodist 3-0
on Sunday at Roanoke College. Washington and Lee crushed

‘ Roanoke in a 30-13, 28-30, 30-23, 30-26 win. The Generals also

squashed Methodist in a 30- 14, 30- 17, 30-15 win.

The volleyball team is now 13-2 overall and 6-0 in the ODAC.
The Generals travel next to Bridgewater on Wednesday for a game
at 6:30 p.m.

Cross country competes in Dickinson Invitational

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross country
teams competed in the Dickinson Invitational on Saturday. The
men competed in a 4K race, and the women competed in both the
4K and 6K races. ‘

Junior Steve Chambers led the men with a tenth place time of
13:10.13 inthe 4K race.

Senior Andy Schoir came in second for the Generals with a
16th overall ﬁnish and a 13:18.55 time.

In the women’s 4K race, freshman Tippens Stone placed
31st overall with a time of 16:27.87. In the 6K race, sophomore
Betsy Frayer finished 55th place with a time of 25:39.

The men and women compete next Saturday at the Virginia
State Meet.

Men’s tennis falls to Radford on the road Tuesday

The men’s tennis team lost to Radford Tuesday 6-1.

Senior Graham Nix had the sole singles win for the Gener-
als. He defeated Andre Cavaco 7-6, 6-0 in the number three
singles spot.

In doubles action, Nix and senior Austin Kim brought home
the only doubles win with a 8-1 victory over Tyler Eddins and
Dominic Soeur.

The Generals also competed in the ITA Southeast Regional
Tournament at Swarthmore on Saturday and Sunday. The final
day of competition is scheduled for today. Results were not
available at press time.

Field hockey overcomes two tough

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT sponrs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey team
came up short last week against two quality op-
ponents, Virginia Wesleyan and Mary Washing-
ton. The experience seemed to have helped them,
however, as they came back to demolish
Randolph-Macon’s Woman’s College on Satur-
day.

The team traveled to play Virginia Wesleyan
in a rare Sunday afternoon match—up. The Marlins
entered the game with an undefeated 7-0 record,
including a first place standing in the ODAC with a
3-0 record.

The Generals battled the Marlins tightly
throughout the first half. The game entered half-
time in a scoreless tie.

It was not until midway through the second
half that Virginia Wesleyan broke the ice in beating
Generals sophomore goaltender Courtney Harrison

to take a 1-0 lead.

The Marlins scored again minutes later to
break open the game. Generals senior forward Kelly
Taffe scored on a penalty comer with no time left
to make the final 2-1.

The final score did not indicate the tempo of
the game, however, as the Marlins out shot the
Generals 25-7 and had the advantage in penalty
comers, 11-7.

Credit goes to Generals goalies, Harrison and
sophomore Elise Gelinas for keeping their squad
in the game for as long as they did. They com-
bined to make 11 saves.

The Generals would not get a break on
Wednesday when they would travel to Mary
Washington to face the ninth ranked team in the
country.

From early on in the game, the Eagles demon-
strated their "position on the national stage, open-
ing a 2-0 lead just ten minutes into the game. Mary
Washington would extend their lead to 3-0 by half-

time and added another score in the second half to
make the final tally 4-0.

The Generals played the Eagles much more
tightly in the second half, after being out shot 8-2
in the first half. They out shot MWC 7-4 in the
second half but failed to_,get on the scoreboard.

After two tough ‘road losses against quality
opponents, the Generals took their frustration out
on Randolph—Macon Woman’s College at home
on Saturday in an ODAC match—up.

Sophomore forward Elizabeth Putney opened
the scoring for the Generals on an unassisted goal
ten minutes into the game. The Generals took the
1-0 lead into halftime but broke the game open in
the second half.

Five different Generals got on the scoreboard
in the second half, turning a narrow halftime mar-
gin into a blowout. Erin Rathbone, Jane Beall, Taffe,
Katherine Garrett and Arnaya Moure provided tal-
lies.

The Generals out shot RMWC 30-1 as goalies

osses this week

Harrison and Gelinas did not have to make a save.
The victory evened the Generals record at 5-
5 on the season and improved their ODAC record
to 3-1 . Washington and Lee will be in action again
this Friday night when they host Bridgewater.

 

MONEY. Beall keeps the ball away from her opponent

Golf Etiquette Tip of the Week:

Replace your divots in the fairway.

   
    

 
  

 

    
 
    

 

    

5 P i I it i E 3
   ~ PGtoRiA0g.Av¢sENcE §§J€tt€GEL
I   ‘Z. W tt.e'\'l'E£i;_ l.E-.’iiANt)i-31'1" E~fi‘Hi})E) ,
LOOK voun BEST FOR_ HoMEcoMmc!  N  a minus
Come by and see Skip, Connie and Wilson at the NEW LOCATION! _  ._  , Mm!“ 309 N_ Main St _  , VA 24450
J __ _ stoma
SKIP IHOMPSON s ,,,,___,.,~,,,a~ , .
  Scllfti s,£am Cash, 50 Free!
T ' How zring On-Campus Reps
Ccllfot «.13 ms
17 S. Randolph -- Lexington, VA gm’ X
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5pm.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954
‘ I
University Sportwear ‘  

t't%;i.a§ i§%;§?lvt§2r~§i§—it.~‘lg lit-§§.7l>Z.!'t§s‘§» asi.a£1.m tale ttta 5 '
Fiiriﬁaaéstttzg  ass =f§i.E§’<§g -:§;i.zsi—a,:;l~:  fiesta neither the   M2 

your downtown location for

W&L apparel and gifts ’

New Exclusive Football Polo Shirt for the 2003 season

15 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia
540-464-3000

 

 

 

 

MFEANMORGAN '.'::
Ains&Lii=EEDn0R
EMAr;M(imi\iiiB@ii/iiiniii

LIFE

 llin<;~’it:ir lira
RTS &

 

 

 

    
 

   
 

    
 
 

   

4 . ,
' PAGE7 MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003 ' '
O
t Plenty offered at Homec onnn g
By MEGAN MORGAN There will be a seminar on “Global Warming:
‘ ARTS & LIFE EDITOR Status and Consequences” with guest David J.
» Harbor, Associate Professor of Geology, Elizabeth
This weekend is Homecoming, and in addition P. Knapp. Assistant Professor of Geology and
to the fraternity parties, the university host sev- Edgar W. Spencer, Professor Emeritus from 2:30 to
eral events for students and alumni. Below is a list 4 Pm-
ur of what is eorning up_ The W&L Film scoiety will show “The Hours” f
in the Elrod Commons Theatre at 7 :30 p.m.
Friday, October 10th; The Student Activities Board will host the -
band Karl Denson’s Tiny Universe at the W&L ‘
The university will be hosting several semi- Pavilion starting at 9. Tickets are needed to enter.
0 nars including “W&L Swings: Arts are Alive !” with _ » _
guests and “The Opposite Sex, Mating, Musk and Samrdays 0Ct0bel' 113 '
Mixed Messages”. Both seminars will be from 9:30
to 10;45 a_rn_ There will be a continental breakfast at Lee
I The university will offer a front and back cam- Ch-'t1Pel Plaza from 8330 to 10300 3-111-
pus tours from 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Those that S0l Waclllilefs 3 l95l graduate Of W&L Wlll - _
are interested should meet at the Alumni House sign his latest novel “Blood Brothers” in front of
There will he an Alumni Luneheon for all stu_ the Commons Bookstore from 10:30 to 11:30 a.m.
dents, faculty and alumni in the Lee House Front The Homecomlng Tailgate Wllll band L005‘?
" Lawn from 1130 am to 1;3()p_m_ ln ease oft-gin, the Change will be held at the Law School Field from
event will be held at the Doremus Gynmasium. l 1330 a-1'l1-l° 1330 P-111
The law school is sponsoring T he John Tllﬁfe Will be t011fS Of the -l0l1l1 W- Elrod Unl-
Randolph Tucker Lecture with at 12:10 p.m. in the V€fSllY Commons from 10 a-m- to 12300 P-m- Start"
... Moot courtroom, . ing in the JWE Commons Lobby. .
The outing club will sponsor a hike of House A service of remembrance for recently de- ’
Mountain from 1 to 5 pm, All interested hikers ceased members of the W&L community will be
should meet in the Lenfest center parking Lot_ held at 10:30 a.m. in Lee Chapel. Speak! Washington and Lee alum, Tom Wolfe, spoke at last year’s Homecoming.
‘ H t t ' ' ~
0W 0 99 3 _ Nominees for Homecoming Queen Announced
   This year, students have " ’ —
.‘ REPRINTED FRON SEE 27TH, been asked to cast a vote for
- ~ 1979~RING_TUM PHI Homecoming Queen. The stu-
dent vote, which counts for 40%
Let’s face it To be “success- of the winner’s score, willbecom-
‘1. _ ful”with women, whileatW&L,re— biried with interviews.
' - ' quires more than a clean button- “As someone who cares a
down shirt or massive quantities of lot about W&L, I was honored
alcohol. The old “get ‘em wasted” just to be asked to be part of a
‘ scheme might get you a few blurry tradition like Homecoming,” said _
, experiences with somepock-marked Senior nominee Joarma Perini ‘
blimps,butitishardlygoingtioeam The winner will be an-
you that desired “stu ” label. nounced at Saturday’s football
To really rack up the notches ame. . A. V - » ~ ‘-
_'-K . on your belt you have to be utterly g Maltena M°“T° Carolyn Duffy Helen Hughes
' unscrupulous. Forget that you are
dealing with people. Your air is to
. . P] While . . . .
o ‘ i the subtle effects of the warped . j .
' A ' ferrialementality.
Too many guys make the mis-
ti take of chasing the whole ﬁelds at
once. This strategy might pay off I:
in the short term, but even future
homemakers of America can ﬁgure
.. out that they are being two-timed.
’ A much better approach, one that g .
‘ . it ‘ has consistently scored high  - —
marks on the long term pleasure Erin Johnson Lindsey Kneipper Eden Parks
scale, is lying. ” ‘
Now lots of people lie to get
. what they want, but they go about
' i‘ it haphazardly. I’m advocating a
calculated scheme of organized de-
ception.
First, you supply your target
4 with enough sentiment so that it
becomes easy for herto rationalize

her future downfall. Then, you set
out endearing yourself with her
friends. Impress them with your

* loyalty and sincerity.
After a carefully orchestrated
break-up, in which the “callous

 

 

   

Daley F orrnby

 

 

 

   

vamp” throws you to the wayside,
n these friends supply you with a :_ _
b fr hi h 1:. '
g‘:y,1fSb: g1:(‘;‘m“:mfmv‘:a:a‘;;St Not Pictured
their ex-friend in their attempts to
avoid becoming secretaries with a _
. good backgroundinarthistory. Melame Barr 
Nowisthatdifﬁcult? Joanna 
e Triple Nine Society ta Wofford
Founded 1978 _ . . .. - ‘ .
Extraordinary can-ta mderie Erin Lutkewitte Laura Westerman Ligia Abreu Mandi Kimble
in an - . . qﬁ ' o 0
international society of peers.    8 C ‘ 7
‘ old SA$'9l?ltg]0p::3cV$nStgi?r:1520 W  f    e  1   0
GRE 14é(|),tMi0|iT 35; ' H e or e l- 6 
see compe e ist at: ‘ .
_ K wvvw.tn'plenine.org or e  1 e I. S '”‘
' €11
Meetings on Mondays son Cuts   —
V i at 5; 1 5 in Cgaper Cu; WE’LL GET RID OF YOUR DIRT
- - Comp te Q30 y Care
M University Commons  .,,.
. room 341 §;"“?‘” .
“W Great Service ,_e
w. as . - - - -
_ ’1[,,G.,,j,‘f,,°.Z,f‘ F1rst—Rate Quality
: ass .i‘?tir ass: |

‘ _ , Or emal 463-9588

; l ‘   h  U  U dose to Campus 7 North Jefferson Street dry cleaning

i ss§§as§2tea.rs.ea2n p ' Q)r‘ﬁ;::::f;;,f;;;,”tﬂ a 463-3622 laundry, alterations

 

 

  
  

MEGANMORGAN
AKIS&LlFEEDl'IOR

&M Im _x.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

 

Tlili Rli"*JG~TL?M liar

 THE i AST ORD

Where have all the
fratemities gone?

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

The recent removal of Sigma Phi Epsilon
from the Washington and Lee campus has
_ - _drawn significant attention from the entire

’ student body. While this removal offers an

important lesson abut maintaining good rela-

_ . _'tions with one national headquarters, it also

” highlights the somewhat transitory nature of
the W&L fraternity scene.

Sigma Phi Epsilon is not the first frater-

nity to be forced off campus, and it will prob-

_. _ ably not be the last. A host of fraternities

' have come and gone leaving behind an empty

house and urban legends of the events

surronding their dismissal. But why did these

-gpfraternities leave? What chain of events

'cuased their removal. There are too many

storeis to talk about in one column, so instead

I will focus on one fraternity, the Delta Tau

. _ Deltas.  V _ in

'~ The Phi Chapter of Delta Tau Delta at o ' Us

Washington and Lee.was founded on June 24,

1896. The fraternity thrived on campus for

many years, attracting brothers mostly from

CAL

Ghost of fraternities past. Members of Delta Tau Delta and their dates pose for a picture before a fomial in 1992. This was their last year on the W&L campus.

the university. According to Burr Datz, a In order to scout for new brothers, alumni university was preparing to renovate the fra-

. . _the New England area. By the 1970, the fra-

' ternity was a major presence on campus. The
President of Washington and Lee, Robert
Huntley, was a Delt alum. The Inter-Fraternity

‘Council President was also a Delta. And
twenty to thirty percent of the All American
athletes from W&L were Delts.

However during the 1980s, the fraterni-

~ gties fortunes began to change and relations
’ began to sour between Delta Tau Delta and

former Delt, the fraternity was responsible for
“repeated violiations of national and univer-
sity understandings of what constitutes a fra-
ternity.” Theseincluded, among other things,
two public honor trials involving Delts. While
both students were acquitted, it left the
fraternity’s image tarnished.

The most major incident involved a rush
violation over the summer. At that time, fra-
ternities formal rush occured during the fall.

would throw parties for entering freshmen.
However, no alcohol could be served at these
parties. During one of these parties thrown by
Delt alumni, a freshman was served alcohol.
After leaving the party, he was involved in a
car accident which left him in a coma. As a
result, the fraternity was suspended for one
year. V

The final straw occurred in 1992 shortly
after the end of the one—year suspension. The

ternity houses and the Delts found the blue-
prints for these proposed changes and de-
cided to tear down the walls in the areas
scheduled for change. The Delts found that
“the university community were not pleased
with the “premature ‘renovations a few mem-
bers of our chapter chose to undertake”. THe
Delts were soon forced off campus and their
house became the current International
House.

   
 

__Urban mob takes over Lexington The Down and Dirty of Informal Rushlng ~
BY 1:.-ASHI0NISTAaS FUnY Meatheads. Social Climbers. Winter Term: Celebrate a good Rush or Kappas won’t be interested  you unless your
STAFF WMTER Loserballs. Elitists. Texans. Which one hck your wounds from abad Rush. And car costs more than your tuition. The SAE’s
are you? Well it doesn’t matter, freshman then there’s that pledgeship thing too, won't be interested in you unless the Kappas 3
. boys and girls, what you think you are. whatever that’s all about. are interested in you. The list goes on and ‘t
It has been brought to my attention that some resemblance whatever you think is wrong, You don’t onm_
of an urban inoh is Walking the streets of Lexington Last get your TRUE W&L identity (ahem, ste— Spring Term: Getready and pumped up For all the good things about informal
Week l spotted a niee Young lady elad tout'en'nolr (that’s all reotype) until that grand occasion of Tear to do it all over again. Rush—the free parties, the free brews, the mil-
- j ~ in black for You Spanish rnalors)- NoW there is nothing Wrong Night. You’ve got so much to look forward Simple and true, this is the way of lions of people who all want to shake your hand ’ . ~ ‘ .
With this Combination? hlaek is elassY- But: the Pleees she had to, but be careful — Don’t get things at W&L for — there is an ugly side we just can’t seem to
chosen and Paired I0gCth6I‘ made me fear that the Sharks and aheadof you!-Se1Ves_ You’Ve _______________________________________________________ __ the Greeks_ But shake_ Because we all want [0 “Wm” 01' be-
_ the Jets Were going to duke it out With KA and SAE for the A still got3more months before ABSOLUT FRATLORD while we all ﬁght to cause we’re all just secretly insecure, frat boy
~j- , hlggest rlVal_i'Y on _eaniPus~ The important thing here is that you choose your stereotype. T SMITH ‘O4 impress you fresh- and sorority girls will always dirty rush. And
there really is nothing Wrong With eaeh item in this ensemble Ihope you all caught the ———-IM—~—»L—— men, we are also so, the stereotypes will alwaysbe around. Wel— ‘
but clearly this fine young woman could use a few hints. Raging Inteuectuals piece this fighting against the come in W&L “
past week. Sanford Stone, a brilliant and stereotypes. By the end of the term, It is up to you, wonderfully intelligent ,;
‘ ~ g . ‘l- l-eaVe Your rnlni'skirt to the late‘night frat life» no one needs charismatic member of Mock Con Team you’ll know them all. freshmen, to see through the ruse. It is up to
to see that much thigh on the hlll- West Virginia, mentioned that “dirty” I’maLambda Chi. This whole frat you to get off your collective asses and visit ” '
phrase — the bane of every self-conscious lord thing is a sick joke — I’m a so— each and every house, and form your own opin-
2~ That hlaek hutton“uP shirt is Probably hest saVed for Aunt frat boy and sorority girl. cially awkward loser who likes to ions. If you’re dumb enough to believe what a
Ednats funerals and Prettl’ Please don’t tuek it in Dirty rush is inescapable. Some of us spendallmy timeinthe library. Idon’t fraternity brother or what an independent or
_ like to think that we are above it — that we know how to party, but I play a mean even what a school newspaper says about each s‘ .
3- StraPPY stilettos on the hill? You’Ve got to be kidding inet are too good to possible say something game of Scrabble. Oh, and I’m just and every house on campus, then I guarantee
Perhaps this ltern is What rnost aPPalled ine- There is a reason horrible about our Greek neighbors. But horrible at athletics and am the main you’ll be kicking yourself come Tear Night.
W&L girls Wear fliP'ﬂoPs to FDa and it has nothing to do With that’s ridiculous, given the way life is at reason my house is horrible in There’s a place for everybody on this campus,
comfort (if that were the ease We Would haVe stoPPed stareh‘ W&L. Perhaps a little orientation with the intramurals. you just have to see it for yourself. You've got
ing Polo collate Yeats a3o)- Safety is always our biggest eon‘ real W&L calendar is in order: The Chi Psi brothers are all sketchy three more months — after that, everything ‘
eern- Wearing ﬂiP'floPs PreVents trlPPing on the uneVen hrieks vampires. The KA’s won’t talk to you changes. Make the best of it. Take Sariford’s
of the eolohnades and l eantt even imagine What the trek haek Fall Term: Woo the freshmen. Try to entice unless you're from south of the Ma- advice: “filter through the crap and find out
~to Woods Creek from l-eYhurn Would he like in 4'lneh sPlkes- as many freshmen as possible, especially son-Dixon. The Fiji’s can talk football about the Greeks yourself.” You’ll be happy
' _ at the expense of your Greek rivals. all day but spit no game with girls. The you did. g
But back to the appearance of this Urban Mob... if they
~ 3 ,have in fact descended upon our campus perhaps they can
help protect us from another villain threatening Lexington: out Q Sleep is for the weak. Q Coach Franke says, “Stop (1) Is Jeb Brooks the most
of season Lilly Pulitzer. ~ K lollygaggingl” handsome man on campus?
_ -‘_ True, Lilly is good, Lilly is wonderful, and some may even Q Graharn—Lees second ﬂoor I A
‘ consider her a goddess. Everyone knows that these pastel Commons sidewou1dalsoliketri- Q‘ Ifyou are sitting infront of Q Students need to learn
frocks, with their animal prints and hidden Lilly signatures are » ply toilet paper. me in class, please wear under- the difference between the
' "the epitome of fashion genius on campus. It has even been wear. I don’t want to see your “Reply to All” and “Reply to
. scientifically proven that the number of Lilly pieces a fresh- H Q Instead of more Jason Srnee crack. ' A Sender” options in ,
- ' -fman girl owns directly corresponds to the sorority she will in the yearbook next year, there Groupwise. This mean you, ”
receive a bid from. But, my lady friends, it is now fall and we shouldbemore Hooters Girls (see Q Onthat note, semper ubi, sub SRC members.
‘must put away these pastel novelties until Spring Term, (this Q Ashley Hans, formerly page 99). ubi.
‘ includes all tote bags and other Summer flair). Website Girl,has matriculatedas Q Put some damn art in
‘ Yet you freshmen must wonder, “how can I get the al— a-sophomore at Ursinus College Q People who bitch and moan Q Freshmen should avoid Commons Roomalready. s
‘mighty sorority queens to know that I own seventy-two pieces is Collegeville, Pennsylvania. about ﬂipped—up collars should drinking the booze of those kind
of signature Lilly?” The answer is simple: talk about it; all the find a better cause to champion. enough to give them sober rides. Q Go to the Blood Drive
time, no matter where you are: in line for the keg, on your way Q The key to starting a suc— A Wednesday in Doremus. It
‘ '_*to class, and especially at all Meet the Greeks and sorority cessful W&L relationship is Q 100+ student classes? The Q Kudos to the Ohio delega— really doesn’t hurt.
'-affiliated functions, particularly during rush week itself. (At poor communication. Swathmoriﬁcation of W&L has tion for throwing the ﬁrst party 3*
this point you may even find it necessary to revive your sum— begun! of Mock Con 2004. Q Can Men’s Soccer be
met Lilly and wear it during rush week just to be sure the so— Q W&L does have variety— stopped? They won again!
rority women are extra impressed.) Talking about Lilly is al— just look at all the different Q Skateboarding (andMOUN— Q Who the hell thought it
E . ' most as cool as wearing a Sundress in October. Remember: types of jam bands that come TAIN BOARDING) is illegal on wouldbea good idea to play live Q Studentvoting forHome- _
sometimes our actions can be tackier than our wardrobe. to campus. Campus. music at the piano in the Com- coming Queen is aracket and 1‘
You may be Southern, and we’re all well aware of W&L’s mons Room on Sunday nights? just plain dumb. Can you say
- reputation as a Southern school, but ladies it’s cold outside! Q If the Burishes have any Q I think Robinson Hall must One can hardly think, let alone popularity contest?
‘ ‘ Go ahead and wear your ﬂip—ﬂops, I won’t call you out for consideration for the have died. It certainly smells like conduct a meeting.
that, but trade in that strappy pastel number for a super-sweet University’s history, they would it did. Q Way to go Ansel Sand- 3 1
North Face ﬂeece, and talk about that a lot too, especially how let the Lee cats stay in Q The lights in the Commons ers!You keptthe lacrosse team
s much it cost, and NEVER admit that you bought it on sale. A Traveller’s barn. Q If you haven’t yet, call Co- bathrooms take so long to turn in the game against UVa.
1- i - ‘really good way to make sure everyone on campus knows that lumbia to have your gas turned on, one’s business is usually
you too own the W&L essential North Face ﬂeece is to place Q Cheers to the ILL staff in on. _ completedin the dark. Q BTW: Washington and
a Campus Notice stating: “I, Drunk Freshman, left my black Leyburn for making interlibrary ' Lee is still the University of t‘
, _ North Face ﬂeece at Fratty McFratfrat’s house on Friday night. loans available via e-mail. Q Geology tip: When identify- Q Can you believe that Chi Virginia.
'3' I ‘It has all of my Bobbi Brown make—up, my swipe card, car keys ing an unknown rock, always Omega, KappaDelta (arnazingbut
to my new BMW SUV and cell phone in the pockets. This Q Only 9% of the population taste test first to make sure it’s true!) and Kappa Kappa Gamma Q Fashionista says: Earth
jacket has a lot of sentimental value, please return.” Talking‘ of Hawaii is ethnically Hawaiian. not Halite. were all involved in Rush viola- tones look great in this cool »
_. about your expensive clothes can only assure your proper tions this weekend? weather,
’ spot amongst the ranks of the W&L sorority women; but wear— Q Graham-Lees second ﬂoor Q When the temperature out-
“ing Summer Lilly in the fall could make you the next victim of commons side would like Helen side is below 40 degrees, wearing Q Props to Kappa Sigma for Q E-mail your anonymous
the Fashionista. Hughes to come visit. sandals may not be the best idea. exploding a car. Quick Hits to phi@w1u.edu. s

 

