    
   

 

 

41373.75:
.955:
.;/. M6
mm:
c. z.

I crease in complaints. “Last year I think I got

 \l(/Asrm\1GT<)GN AND'iE’E UNIVERSHY

, ll}€StM6l€7lt voice of Washington and Lee Univenitysince I 897

/05 , 2:
VOLUME Cllll,eNo.W
MONDAY,MARCH 1,2004

PHI

Two fraternities cleared, two others still under investigation

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Two pledgeship investigations are com-
plete, ending in cleared charges. But two more
are pending.

According to IFC advisor Matt Jacobs, the
abundance of investigations comes from an in-

three phone calls concerning pledgeship and
hazing,” said Jacobs. “This year on a given day
I have four to six.”

Dean Dawn Watkins said that a vague,
anonymous tip would not produce an investi-
gation. In fact, she would respond to anony-
mous emails by promising conﬁdentiality, ask-
ing for specifics and stating that nothing can be
done until the unsubstantiated claim is clarified.

So no outside people should be able to bring
an end to a fratemity’s pledgeship by a devious,
general suggestion.

Specific phone calls and visits to Jacobs
and the Deans offices, however, cannot be ig-
nored. “If something lands on our desk, there’s
a responsibility to act,” said Watkins. “We’re
not seeking anything.”

Cleared.   and Chi Psi have been cleared of any pledgeship violations regarding sleep deprivation.
Their pledgeships may resume. V I

deciding to investigate.

“They don’t update you on the
progress,” said Higgins. “They might try to
have more understanding'on how hard the
process is on the people responsible.”

Fiji’s investigation lasted longer be-
cause of February break, which created ad-
ditional problems with their nationals be-
cause of a March 1 deadline for alcohol
forms.

to comment, but he had to respect national
rules of confidentiality.

Security must talk to all of the pledges
and the house leadership during an investi-
gation. .

Therefore, details and the number of in-
vestigations have led to longer suspensions
of pledgeship.

According to Jacobs, Mock Convention
also took time away from investigations.

“We’re moving pretty fast,” said
Watkins. “When there’s a fast turnaround
case on the investigation, it’s because of
the house’s cooperation.”

A suspension does not represent a

Chi Psi active Brooks Batcheller wanted ‘

I_FC President Brian Castleberry also said
that “security is doing its typical surveillance.
lt’s not like they’re driving around looking at
off campus houses at night.”

No one can point to a direct reason for the
considerable number of complaints.

“Maybe the freshmen are closer to their par-
ents, so they’re more aware of what’s going on,”
said Castleberry. “Maybe complaints are being
turned in because people think there’s a higher prob-

ability they will be acted on than in years past.”

Castleberry admits that these complaints do
not reveal an increase in pledgeship activities from
past years. “A lot of houses have trimmed back,”
he said.

The Fiji and Chi Psi complaints proved unsup-
ported, so their pledgeships have resumed.

Three unrelated complaints regarding sleep
deprivation in the Fiji pledge class reached the
University, according to Fiji active Brian

Higgins.

“People reported our pledges getting tired,
and no complaint came from a parent,” said
Higgins, who added, “sleep deprivation can be
a tricky thing.”

Higgins understands the reasons for inves-
tigation. “They had to do it,” he said. He also
credited University Security with doing a good,
straightforward job, but he wished the Uni-
versity would have spoken with ‘him before

fraternity’s guilt. “It’s just a safety is-
sue,” said Jacobs.

“Being under investigation is not a
conviction of anything,” said Watkins. “It
is as much in the best interest of the
house as it is in the interest of any fresh-
men.

“Our number one concern is safety,
but our number two priority is keeping the
Greek system from being in jeopardy.”

Admissions organizes Open Houses for minorities
in attempt to increase interest in Washington and Lee

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s
Admissions office hosted an
open house this weekend. The
open house allowed a number
of prospective interested mi-
nority students to come visit
W&L, meet with professors
and get a feel for campus life.

Admissions holds a series
of Open Houses each year for
under—represented popula-
tions.

This year, Washington and
Lee hosted three open houses.
Erin Hutchinson, the Coordi-
nator of Minority Relations,
and Jonathan Webster, the As-
sociate Dean of Admissions,
defined under-represented
populations as American, eth-
nic and racial minorities. Reli-
gious minorities can also fall
under this category.

Open Houses are not exclu-
sive to minority groups, said
Webster, because they have
many parallels to events such
as the Honor Scholarship week-
end.

The Open Houses are im-
portant to minority recruitment
because it gets them “here on
campus, to find out what W&L
is all about,” and shows that,
“everyone is welcoming, open
and talkative,” said
Hutchinson. I

“W&L sells itself,” said
Webster.

According to Hutchinson,
the students who attend Open
Houses are interested in learn-
ing about what General Lee did
after the Civil War. He was “in-
strumental in reaching beyond
the South to enroll,” she said,
“they go home feeling less ap-
prehensive.”

Open Houses help Admis-
sions address diversity issues.
“We want to discuss diversity,”
said Webster.

According to Hutchinson,
all of the students who attend
the Open Houses know very
well why they’re coming to
campus. “We tell them we‘re
going to address diversity,”
she said, “and make sure they
have experiences here that ad-
dress those issues. . .and we ask
them for their concerns about
diversity at Washington and
Lee.”

This weekend’s Open
House included a brunch with
Professors of Departments the
students expressed interest in,
a session in which Nabors rep-
resentatives discussed service
at Washington and Lee, a cam-
pus tour, a session in which IFC
and Panhel representatives dis-

. cussed Greek life, concerts, and
- a diversity panel.

Today, the students will at-
tend classes of their choosing.

~ sity panels are a forum for.-pro. -

Hutchinson said the diver-

spective students to talk with
current Washington and Lee
students, “they can voice their
opinions and see if precon-
ceived ideas are on target,”
she said.

The purpose of Open
Houses is, “not to pull the
wool over anyonefs eyes
about W&L,” Hutchinson
said.

The Minority Student As-
sociation and Club Asia
helped to organize social
events for the Open House
weekend.

When actually making Ad-
missions decisions, race may
be one of many factors.

Race helps in “choosing
among equals,” said Webster,
“and the average admitted mi-
nority candidate has creden-
tials that are right on.”

According to Webster, the
Admissions Office is following
through on goals set by the
Board. The Board set in place
a 5-year plan to increase the
representation of American, ra-
cial and ethnic groups to a
number that approximates the
mean of rural, national arts
colleges. The Admissions Of-

COMP.‘ Adrnissionsirwitedmmoiitysmdentstocarnpusthisweekendtoleammore
thiswed<end’s activities includedadiversitypanelatwhich currentsuidentsaddressedmanyconeerns oftheprospectives.

EB Roo HE ING-TUM I

about what We have to offer. Part of

   

fice, however, does not set
quotas or have hard numbers.
Webster said the mean that
Washington and Lee Admis-

sions is aiming for is about The second phase of the

- 10%. Admissions is halfway Board’s plan will take place

through this first five-year
span.

during a second 5-year time
period. During this phase,

Admissions will aim to in-
crease the number of students
who represent socioeconomic
or social disadvantage.

Four seniors honored for contributions to student activities

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

During the month of February, the Celebrating Student Success
Initiative honored four students for their contributions to University
life. Winners in three categories were chosen by a joint student-staff
committee. The committee seeks to recognize student leaders whose
valuable contributions are not always visible to the University com-
munity.

Seth Martin, a senior Biology major, was recognized for his con-
tributions to Religious Life. Martin is president of Hillel, an organiza-
tion that seeks to contribute to and increase awareness of Jewish life
on campus. In part because of the efforts of Hillel and Martin, W&L
saw a 300% increase in Jewish enrollment in the past year.

“The most rewarding part of my work‘ with Hillel is seeing Jewish
enrolhnent increase at W&L and seeing good tumouts for Hillel events.
I think the increases in attendance over thulast two years at our Hillel
events, such as First Friday at Five Shabbat services, speaks to the
growing vibrancy of Jewish life on this campus,” said Martin.

In addition to his duties with Hillel, Martin is also a member of the

Men’s Tennis Team, President of Beta Theta Pi, a volunteer for Natu-
ral Bridge Juvenile Learning Center, and a member of the Student
Athlete Mentor’s Council.

‘ Paul Sibley, a senior Biology major, was recognized for his lead-
ership in Greek Life. Sibley is a member of Phi Kappa Psi, and has
served as social chair and philanthropy chair for two years, and is
currently acting vice president. Sibley’s duties as philanthropy chair
have allowed him to organize two Parent’s Weekend “Pancake Break-
fasts” with Kappa Alpha Theta, with proceeds benefiting Court Ap-
pointed Special Advocates.

“It makes the process of being involved in the community much
easier when you have a whole fraternity organizing it, rather than trying
to volunteer your time to a certain charity by yourself,” said Sibley,

Apart from his philanthropic efforts with Phi Psi, Sibley was rec-

ognized for his work with former Phi Psi President Jay Harder and

current Phi Psi President Haynes King to extend eating member-
ships at their house to members of AD Phi. They are currently work-
ing with the Business Office to allow all AD Phi members to eat all
their meals at the Phi Psi house. This is the culmination of a friend-
ship between Phi Psi and AD Phi brothers and will help ADPhi’s

become involved as social members of Phi Psi.

Through the efforts of Sibley and others, AD Phi members are
now participating in Phi Psi social events and attending chapter meet-
ings. Next year they will be able to participate in rush and half of the
house next year will be filled with AD Phi members. V

In addition to his efforts with Phi Psi, Sibley is also a member of
the Men’s Baseball Team, has served as a Big Brother, and volun-
teers one or two nights a week as an EMT.

In the category of Programming and Social Activities, Monea
Hendricks and Jessica Taylor were recognized for their work with the
cheerleading squad. The squad is entirely student run; therefore
Hendricks and Taylor are responsible for coaching as well as admin-
istrative work. Since their freshman year on the squad, Hendricks and
Taylor have seen its size double.

“In the past year, numbers have increased but unity, sacriﬁce,
dedication, and commitment have also improved, especially during
basketball season,” said Hendricks.

Hendricks is also an officer in the Minority Students Associa-
tion and is a former director of Joyful Noise Choir. Taylor was also the
Maryland State chair in the Mock Convention.

 

‘wﬁatamw  V
U?»  F W

 

Vagina Monologue organizers thank students

Thank you, W&L! Because of the great turnout at the Va-
gina Monologues and campus—wide support, Women’s Law Stu-
dent Organization was able to raise over $4000 for Safehome Sys-
tems (the family shelter in Covington) and the V-DAY Charity-
Women of Juarezs Also, we collected 10 baskets of home items
for Project Horizon. Because of you, hundreds of women will be
rescued from violence.

Nationally acclaimed comedy troupe visits

The Guerilla Girls, a nationally acclaimed feminist comedy
troupe, will give a Women’s History Month performance on
Tuesday, March 2, at 7:00 p.m. in the Elrod Commons theater.

The performance is open to the public without charge and is
sponsored by Washington and Lee’s Politics and Art departments,
the Women’s Studies program and the undergraduate organization
Knowledge Empowering Women Leaders.

Guerilla Girls is a group of anonymous women\who perform
under the names of dead female artists and appear in public wearing
Gorilla masks to use humor as a way of provoking discussion.
Their work has appeared in The New Yorker, The New York Times,
Vogue and The Nation.

University of Florida professor gives history
lecture regarding John Wilkes Booth and Honor

Bertram Wyatt-Brown, Professor of History at the University
of Florida and author of Southern Honor: Ethics and Behavior
in the Old South will speak on John Wilkes Booth and Honor.
His lecture will be March 3, 2004 7:30 p.m. in the Science Center
A. 214.

Religious lecture

Anne Marbury Wyatt-Brown, Ph.D. Associate Professor of
Linguistics at the University of Florida will be giving a religion
lecture on Religion, Age, and Identity after the Holocaust: ACase
Study on March 3, 2004 at 4:30 in Newcomb Hall 9. Dr. Brown is
the author of Barbara Pym: A Critical Biography. Her current
work in progress is: “Writing New Lives: Aging, Trauma, and
Creativity in Holocaust Narratives.”

March 1, 2004

Summary of Executive Committee Honor V
Activity for the 2003-2004 Academic Year if

Investigations: 9

Withdrawals while being investigated: 1
Withdrawals in face of a Closed Hearing: 0
Closed Hearings: 5

Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 1

Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 4

Student Body Hearings: 0

A Deliberate Driving. Sean Barry talks about the impact on his life, his wife Amber, and

countless others because of a decision to drive after drinking in 1998...

Wednesday, March 3
Lee Chapel
7:00 p.m.

MONDAY, MARCH 1,2004

Run for the Law raises money for law fellowships

BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN
STAFF WRITER

The third annual Run for the Law 5K walk and 10K run will be
held on Saturday, March 20. The run is sponsored by PILSA, the
Public Interest Law Students Association.

PILSA is a non-proﬁt group for law students interested in
working in the public interest sector. The proceeds from the run
help provide summer fellowships for students working in public
service.

“Many of these jobs, such as working in Legal Aid, public
defense, environmental groups, and special organizations are un-
paid,.so we provide students with fellowships,” said Brooke Corby,
the president of PILSA.

The cost of the run is $20 per participant and runners or walk-
ers receive a t-shirt. Run for the Law participants are usually stu-

dents from the University, but PILSA is encouraging residents of
Rockbridge County to participate as well.

They hope to have more than 100 people participate.

Corby said that last year, the group was able to give several
fellowships to students. While the Run is PILSA’s main fundraiser,
the group also partners with Domino’s for a fundraiser, does a
magazine sale, and sells Law School apparel.

The Run begins at the Rockbridge Country Public Library,
finishes at the Ruins, and covers the Chessie Trail and the Maury
River Bridge. '

The first place female and first place male will receive a pair of
running shoes from Graden’s.

In addition, participants will be entered in a rafﬂe for items
donated from Lexington businesses, such as gift certiﬁcates.

Interested students can register by contacting Brooke Corby

at ggm  o by picking up a registration form.

Hidden Hero: law student Chris Vrettos

Vrettos active in Fencing Club, Black Lung Practice Clinic, Pro Bone-O, W&L radio

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee Law
students regularly make impor-
tant contributions to University
life—some are even involved in
undergraduate activities.

Chris Vrettos, who majored
in Political Science at Duke dur-
ing his undergraduate years,
was attracted to W&L Law be-
cause it’s a top 20 law school
and he liked the small class
sizes.

Once here, Chris became in-
volved with many differing ac-
tivities. He’s been a member of
the fencing team since last fall
and handles all the equipment
for the team.

For class credit, Chris
works with the Black Lung prac-
tice clinic run by Washington
and Lee Law Professors Mary
Natkin and James Phemister.
Black Lung Practice clinic stu-

dents assist West Virginia coal
miners with applications for fed-
eral beneﬁts.

Chris helped the victim discover
evidence for records, took the

victim on a narrative history of
his experience and wrote a clos-
ing argument for the case.

Students can work with the
mining victims because federal
regulations state that the victims
don’t have to be represented by
actual lawyers. Fourteen stu-
dents participate in the Black
Lung Practice Clinic.

Chris also has a radio show,
“Stairway to Heavy” late
Wednesday night on which he
plays classic rock, hard rock and
metal music. His radio show is
purely, “for his own amusement,”
because law school gets very
busy Chris said.

He is also involved with Pro
Bone-o, a Law School group that
works with the local animal shel-
ter by posting the animals’ pic-
tures on the‘SPCA website.

While in law school, Chris is
taking a broad variety of classes
so he will prepared for the bar and
intends to practice any kind of
law, wherever he can find a job.

I_ K V 
View from the top. Vrettos works hard to contribute to the W&L
community.

PHOVI‘ O COURTESY OF

On his most recent case,

Announcement of Owings Fellowship for juniors

FROM PRESS RELEASE

, A A fellowship in his memory has been created by friends of S.
Cullum Owings, Jr., a member of the Class of 2003 who died tragi-
cally in his senior year. A

The first Cullum Owings ’03 Fellow will be appointed for the
remainder of the current Academic Year. The student selected
will receive a credit of $1250 to be applied toward his/her next
tuition payment to the University.

In exchange, the Fellow will be expected to make two or
three visits to alumni chapters or to secondary schools, to dis-
cuss the state of the University from a student’s point of view,
with particular regard to the Honor System. It is expected that
the student chosen for the remainder of the current year will
have the fellowship renewed next year, with a stipend of $2500
for the full year. _

Criteria for selection of Owings Fellows are, first of all, that
the applicants should themselves possess outstanding personal
integrity.

They should be good scholars, but the fellowship is not
limited to students with exceptional grade—point averages. They

LISTEN.
91.5 WLUR

FOR ALL OF YOUR FANCY DRESS NEEDS:
U nive rs ity
C 1 e an e rs
. A   Wmngggg;

stress 11:’? its am! xi
. fnrfatrrtrmvessltl

       

t 7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

should be articulate, with some grace and poise in demeanor,
while at the same time being sensitive to the values and opin-
ions of others. ‘

They should be students who show promise of developing
into community leaders of high standards.

Applicants may submit their applications to Professor Emeri-
tus John M. Gunn, Department of Economics, through Campus
Mail. The application should include

0 a copy of the student’s transcript

0 a resume of activities and special talents

0 an essay of about 250 words with the title: “How my
personal values and experience qualify me to represent Wash-
ington and Lee as a Cullum Owings Fellow,” a statement of
willingness to make the off-campus visits, as described above,
and names of two or more members of the faculty who from whom
the selection committee may seek recommendations.

Applications are due by Friday, March 19. The selection
process will include interviews with those applicants judged most
worthy on the basis of their written applications.

Questions may be addressed to Professor Gunn at
gunnj@wlu.edu‘. '

Q,§,\°’\ EYEWEAR IS VISION ,ﬂ2,.
EYEWEAR IS STYLE 2

THE BEST OF BOTH IS AVA|LABLE

The Newailpticians

Boutique

1 203 N. Main Street

<9 .
pa 95/ Lexington ,®c,\°°

*5‘/7/o/7 540-463-7440 90“

F
490753 www.newopticians.com

 

grins

Gtoaul LAWRENCE RANSEL
P|LATES/ALEXANDER Memos

540-461~34-47

309" N. rein St.
Lexington, VA 24450

7/

 

 

I ClrEYANpnsoN
OPlNl0l\8FDll0R
mm m

, PAGE 3
foolish

THE RING-TUM PHI

PINIONS

Amendment against gay marriage

 

< MONDAY, MARCH 1,2004

v  ITORIAL

Get involved in your student gov’t

   
   

 

. Recent election fever has the carn-
pus buzzing. Many students have been
paying more attention in recent days
to student government and its activity.
X. than ever before.

This attention has made students
even more aware of Honor. The fresh-
man “intimidation speech” and elec-
" tions season are not the only times we
should be interested in the Executive
Comrnittee’s actions, though. Ifwe are
really as proud of our rich tradition of

‘i honor and integrity as we like to claim,
we must show interest in student gov- -. , »
PHOTO COURTESY rt «I ':r -
emment year'r0und- _ BussFUI. MATRIMONY. A happy lesbian couple  after their Hawaii Wedding. Though the center of debate is now San Francisco, the issues remaii:1 the same.
1 There IS no questlon that we carry Thebeauty and wonder of this country is inits unique promise of civil liberty and sex? Every American has an equal right to happiness regardless of his or her

our heritage with reverence and awe.
Concern stems from the lack of stu-

equality for all persons. It is the fuel that keeps this nation running. But right now,
America is on empty and badly needs to make a pit—stop torefuel.
dent interest in events such as the re- On Thesdaya President Bush announced that he Will Pf0P0Se that COIISIBSS P388
Cent revi Sions to the EC Constitution an amendment to the Constitution to ban gay maniages. Nothing will hurt the sanctity
‘ The more mundane as t f tud t of American liberty more than the successful passage of such an amendment. It
pee S 0 _S en vio1atestheFrrstAmendment’s guaranteetoreligious freedom,theFourthAmendment’s
government Often Chase away lntere Sh guarantee to privacy, and the Fourteenth Amendment’s guarantee to equal liberties for
This is a tragedy. every American. The decision to oppose or support gay marriages should be a solely
( We must take a more active [016 personal decision made by each person’s individual sentiments towards the issue, not

_ * in our lives at Washington and Lee. by “‘°_n?:’X:]"“_‘°“t‘ thas _ I , u_ this the mi
Four years is a long time to spend at mean gov en "OJ C on over m '

personal or moral beliefs as long as these values do no harm others. Just like
marriage is the essence of happiness for two heterosexuals who are devoted, mar-
riage also brings happiness to two homosexuals with a commitment to each other.
To deny people the right to be happy based on their personal beliefs is immoral and
constitutionally illegal.

If Americans are offended by homosexual relationships, that is, a personal
sentiment. Everyone goes through life offended by something, whether it is
someone’s rude behavior in a restaurant or someone’s’ style of clothing. But regard-
less of how offensive the behavior may be, it doesn’t wanant making the offensive
behavior illegal unless that behavior somehow endangers hurrran life or infringes on
someone else’s rights. Last I heard, the right to not be offended was not a rightand

_ _ varion to ban gay marriages is mainly derived from religious and mT*  a homosexual relationship has never caused any physical dangers
‘ 3 Place Wltneut trylng to leave some personal beliefs. Many who are opposed to it often argue that the R‘ ml that I can think of.
“ kind of an impact. Look for ways Bible forbids such relationships and thereby these relationships TRAN  KM ‘05 Sonic opponents of allowing homosexual marriages say that it

harms the sanctity of marriage in general. I did a little online investiga-
tion to see what some of the leading causes of divorce were and none
of them mentioned homosexuality as a cause of divorce. The main causes were money
problems, alcohol and drug problems, outside relationships, and immaturity. Those

are immoral and should be prohibited. If the government were to
ban gay rnaniages, it would in essence set a religious precedent
and violate the First Amendrnent’s guarantee of religious freedom The decision to
support or oppose gay marriages is a spiritual one that must be determined by and only

that you can make this place better.
Some will find their niche in organi-
zations like the Outing Club, others

‘ In the Greek S 3’ Stem and Sun Others by each individual. TheAmerican government has no right to interfere in the religious who claim that homosexual relationships cause divorce and marriage instability need
in the myriad remaining student or- -practices of its  By allowing lawmakers to incorporate such an amendment into to conre forth with couples who have claimed that their marriage problems mulwd
ganizationg, , the American Constitution, Americans will in essence give up their rights to choose directly from homosexuality. The only problem that homosexuality can bring to a

In Short, we believe that Students their way of life because the government will assume the role of personal conscience. heterosexual marriage is if one partner is homosexual and just didn’t realize it and now

"V Not only would such an amendment invade  rights to-freely practice their does. If the motivation to include such an amendment is to preserve the sanctity of

must take an active role in their lives
here at Washington and Lee. Do
something to make a difference. Pay
kl attention to the Executive Committee,
take an active role in your student
organizations or write a letter to the

religious beliefs, it also violates citizens’ privacy rights guaranteed in the Fourth Amend-
ment. Any relationship between two people is solely between those two people and is
not the concern of any person in America, or any person for that matter TheAmerican
government has no right to interfere in people’s private lives and dictate what they
should or should not do. By enabling the government to interfere in the private lives
of citizens, we are in essence allowing the American government to carry on a tradition

marriage, it would be wiser to ban divorce lawyers than gay marriages. Ahomosexuai
marriage in no way violates the purity of a heterosexual marriage.

We need to be very cautious in what we amend to the Constitution. This seems
to be an abrupt and rash action on Bush’s part that is spurred purely by political
pressures. Such an anrendrnent is unconstitutional—bottom line. Regardless of
how you feel about homosexuality, you have no right to prohibit homosexuals from

_ of petty gossip and snooping. A expressing themselves in the only way they know how—t.hemselves. Just like any
edlton I I ~ Such an amendment also violates the equality to which gays and lesbians are person who may say vulgar things that I may not agree with to me, I can’t take his
' entitled in American society Why should the relationships between people of the right to express them. I can argue and disagree vehemently until he changes his

opposite sex deserve more attention than relationships between people of the same mind but I can’t deny him to the right to utter those words.

“Monologues” are vulgar concoction with political purpose

Recently, the Vagina Monologues were performed another partner. Relief for this long-suffering house- ful at their newly discovered favorite body part.

~Campus Notices

 

"l‘lI'IlES!!!!!!!ll!!!!!!!!'I‘lI'IlFSi!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!”

at Washington and Lee. The proceeds from the perfor-
mance beneﬁted Project Horizon, a Rockbridge County
support organization for battered women. Although the
end was honorable, the means, the performance of The
Vagina Monologues, were, at best, a poor decision, at
worst, a calculated attempt to infect our campus with
victimization feminism

The Monologues are a performance based on hun-
dreds of interviews of women of all ages by the author,
Eve Ensler. She has written a collection of speeches

 

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor
News Editor

Opinions Editor ~

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir.
Distribution Dir.

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Wass

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderman
Cody Gabbard

John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Stuart Presnell
Rob Rain
Thomas Worthy

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring—tum Phi is a member of

The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent
The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-rum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opin-

ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper

observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 34 I
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Emdil: phi@wlu.edu
, Subscription rate $40

wife who wanted no more than simple monogamy and
was driven mad by a heartless, insensitive, unfaithful
husband, was found in an interview with the
vulvacentric Eve Ensler.

In another, entitled The Flood, the story is told of
a 72-year-old who has never seen her vagina. As a
young adult, she had been traumatized by a falling out
during a date. Of course, her male companion was to
blame for her years of pain and her experience with Eve
Errsler’s liberating feminist encounter with her genitalia

that, although cheered by feminists caused her to shed tears of joy at the
far and wide as a liberating exarnina— gift she found. In truth, one wonders
tion of the oppression and RIGHT OF THE PFSLE how this lady lived for sixty or more
demonization of the female genitalia, BRETT KIRWAN 04 years totally paralyzed by one bad
are little more than a disturbing cel- memory.

ebration of female victimization and vulgar exhibition-
ism

Each of the thirteen monologues is based, more or
less, on the same tired feminist theme: women have
been unable to discover their true selves due to the
oppression and misunderstanding of men and, thank
God for Eve, they now are at peace with and indeed
celebrate their, ahern, plumbing.

The production opens with a brief monologue en-
titled Hair. This terribly too descriptive piece tells the
sad tale of a wife held hostage by a husband who de-
mands that she be clean-shaven. Driven mad by his
request, she eventually takes to therapy and marriage
counseling. Needless to say, the therapist had no sym-
pathy for her, and, of course, her husband takes up with

In athird, the story is told of a young girl who was
raped at a young age and suffered numerous other
vagina—related tragedies throughout her young life, but
was set free by a not—completely—consensual sexual
encounter with a much older woman. That’s right, ac-
cording to The Vagina Monologues, lesbian rape is
cathartic and a useful form of therapy for abused chil-
dren.

What’s even more disturbing about this festival
of “Woe is me” feminism is the unnecessarily graphic
and ﬂat-out pornographic manner in which it is pre-
sented. The Monologues are designed to be a sort of
encounter experience with the audience. The women in
attendance are meant to come away from a performance
of the Monologues feeling uplifted, liberated and joy-

FOR RESULTS, ADVERTISE WITH TIHZ PHI

540-463-5954

LOOK YOUR BEST FOR
FANCY DRESS!

Come by and see S/rip, Connie and W/Zson at the NE W /. OCA 770/W

SKIP THOMPSON’S

BARBER SHOP

17 S, Randolph ~ Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
, Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

As such, each monologue is full of graphic de-
scriptions of everything from masturbation to men-
struation. An audience member quickly ﬁnds himself
squimringasthemostprivatedetailsofawomanare
recklessly paraded about Each builds upon the previous
one’s level of shock to arrive at a crescendo of the audi-
ence gleefully shouting a particulariy offensive four-let-
ter nicknarne for the female genitalia. For example, one
Vagina Monologues-sponsored gathering in Madison
SquareGardenwasmar.'kedbyGlermClosedroppirrgto
herkneesonstageandscreamingtheword Suchpan-
deringtoalady’sbaserinstinctsservenottofreethem
frommale oppression, butrarhertoencourageamiddle-
school locker room type of sexual understanding.

Most distmbinglythough,ist.’riattheVagina_Mono-
logues have, since their creation, been used as a tool to
turn Valentine’s Day, the only holiday wholly dedicated
totrueromancebetweenamarrandawoman, intoan
oocasiontolambastemenandfocusesonviolenoeagainst

4 women V-day, or Violence Day, is a political concoction

of Violent feminists and has turned a beautiful holiday
into a crass political examination ofthe already decided-
uporr guilt ofrnen as abusers and exploiters.

Washington andbee, althoughmorethancorrectin
supporting avery valuable charity, would do well to shield
itself from this paniculariy odious type of male-bashing,
ferrrale-victirriiairgradicalferrririisrri.

This article appeared in the Ring—tum Phi the
last time “The Vagina Monologues” appeared on
-campus

Student Discounts

 

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2004

 

Higher, more aggresive tobacco taxes cut youth smoking

Every day as I walk around campus, I am
alarmed by the number of college-age smok-
ers and deeply concerned for their health and
well-being. During their four years at Wash-
ington and Lee University these young people
learn and grow significantly - brilliant young
minds on the verge of propelling themselves
into the world and making significant contri-
butions to our society. It breaks my heart to
see them working their minds daily in class
while simultaneously cutting years off their
lives by smoking.

Governor Warner and state legislators are
right in proposing a tobacco tax increase.
With the state’s current tax at just 2.5 cents
per pack, Virginia ranks dead last in the na-
tion. Over the past three years, more than two-
thirds of states have increased their tobacco
tax for a national average of 72 cents per
pack. Last year alone, 16 states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia increased cigarette taxes.

These taxes have uniformly led to fewer
smokers, especially among youth, and fewer
prematuredeaths. Yet Virginia has failed to
face this since 1966, when the 2.5—cent tax was
enacted. By increasing the tax to 75 cents we
would have 17.3 percent fewer young smok-
ers and prevent 72,000 children from ever
starting. This would result in 23,000 fewer pre-

mature smoking—related deaths, while inspir-
ing 55,000 adult smokers to quit, according to
information compiled by the Campaign for To-
bacco-Free Kids.

Increasing the tax also would signifi-
cantly curb soaring health care costs. Cur-
rent health costs and lost productivity attrib-
utable to smoking are more than 200 times

higher than the total amount raised by the 2

current tax. Our state could save as much as
$35 million in health care costs over a five-
year period through this tax change. Given
tough economic times, this critical 75—cent in-
vestment in Virginia no longer can be ignored.
TOBACCO companies would have you
believe that higher cigarette prices simply
prompt kids to smoke cheaper cigarettes. The
truth is this: For every 10—percent increase in
the price of cigarettes, youth smoking is re-
duced by 7 percent and overall cigarette con-
sumption is cut by 3 percent to 5 percent.
Big Tobacco also claims the payments
Virginia receives from the 1998 tobacco settle-
ment agreement, 10 percent of which funds
youth tobacco prevention in the Common-
wealth, will significantly decline. This is an
exaggeration. Reductions in settlement pay-
ments are tied to nationwide sales volume.
When a state’s cigarette tax increases, it sub-

stantially reduces smoking within its borders
— but its effect on nationwide sales is much
weaker. Besides, does Big Tobacco really be-
lieve Virginia would rather see more of its
youth smoke and die than face a small reduc-
tion in settlement funds?

The tobacco industry contends a tax in-
crease would hurt tobacco farmers and lead
to tobacco industry layoffs. The reality is that
smoking in the state is responsible for only a
tiny fraction of the overall demand for the
burley and ﬂue—cured cigarette tobacco grown
in Virginia. That demand would decline by only
about one-tenth of 1 percent if the state in-

-creases the cigarette tax by 75 cents a pack,

making the tobacco industry’s stated concern
for farmers and workers disingenuous, at best.

Another myth is that declining sales will
lead to a drop in projected revenue because
people won’t buy cigarettes. In fact, in every
one of the more than 30 states that increased
cigarette taxes in 2002 and early 2003, tax rev-
enues actually rose while smoking and ciga-
rette sales declined.

BIG TOBACCO also argues that cigarette

taxes hurt mainly low-income smokers. Instead,
the evidence shows that low-income Ameri-
cans not only have the highest smoking lev-
els — but also are four times as likely to quit

because of higher prices. This frees up more
income for those who need it most, while re-
ducing their pain and suffering from tobacco-
related illnesses.

Most important, Virginians support this
tax. Virginia voters favor a 75-cents-a-pack
increase by more than 2-1 (71 percent to 28
percent), a new poll shows. This support is
evident among virtually every political and
demographic group, including large majori-
ties of Democrats, Republicans, and indepen-
dents; men and women; young and old. The
survey confirms raising the tobacco tax is
not a partisan issue - but an issue of com-
mon sense among voters from every educa-
tion and income level and every region in
Virginia.

As we near the 400th anniversary of
Virginia’s founding, let’s not just celebrate
our history but ensure our future by passing
this crucial legislation for the safety of our
youth and for healthier Virginians in the cen-
turies to come.

Dr. Thomas Burish, in addition to his
duties as President of the University, is the
President—Elect of the American Cancer
Society. This article reprintedfrom the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch with his permission.

Mind-boggling: Flag of the Confederacy represents archaic ideas along dead

Every time I pass a freshman dorm on

_ this campus, I usually see at least ONE Con-

federate ﬂag draped in a window. And every
time, I have to scratch my head as to why
some W&L freshmen, along with many other
southerners, continue to cling to his anti-
quated symbol.

Now, understand one_ thing. I am a psy-
chotic, frothing—at—the-mouth Civil War buff.
The only way that I, a San Diegan, even
heard about Washington and *
Lee was because of my near-en-
cyclopedic knowledge of the
Civil War. Not only can I tell you
the name of Jeff Daniels’ char-
acter in Gods and Generals (Joshua Cham-
berlain), I can tell you the name of the regi-
ment (20th Maine), the name of the original
commanding officer (Col. A. Ames), and what
happened to Chamberlain after his famous
stand at the Battle of Little Round Top (he
was injured severely and promoted to Gen-
eral by Grant, who thought it would be a
posthumous promotion, and l.ater he suffered
a crippling injury at Petersburg, but survived
to receive the Confederate surrender).

Yet, despite this, and despite having
my Georgian relatives try to explain it to
me several times, I fail in my understand-
ing of why the Confederate flag is consid-
ered some sort of “heritage” symbol. Even
leaving aside racism, which has been the
big issue in recent years, Ijust don’t see
why. I look at the Rebel flag and I see a
symbol that stands for defeated ideas- sov-
ereignty ofthe states, anti—federalism, and, of
course, slavery. The idea that somehow
we need the flag of the erroneous cause to

    

mmaaa
" CALEYANDERSON ‘O6

honor the brave soldiers and leaders of the
Confederacy is silly.

Here’s a poser for you— Would General
Lee approve of the myriad Confederate ﬂags
that hang over his recumbent statue? Most
people would naturally say “yes.” After all,
he was a Confederate general, right? Yet I
would say not. After the war, Lee recognized
that the Confederacy and the ideas it repre-
sented were not to be. He applied for a Fed-
eral pardon and called for
unity. Though he likely
would have taken the same
cour'se if he had the chance
to do it all over again, man
of honor as he was, he knew that further ad-
vocation of the defeated point of view would
serve only to hurt the nation. He did not
participate further in southern politics, in-
stead choosing to serve a quiet academic life
as the greatest president of our University.
I personally admire him more for his work
here at the University than for-his work on
the battlefields of the Civil War. I think that
now, in the 21st Century, such symbols have
no place. The Confederate States of America
are no longer sovereign as far as I know.

Thus, what it really comes down to in
the end is this— the dead ideas enshrined in
this ﬂag outweigh whatever value it has as a
“pride” symbol. Under this ﬂag, slaves were
whipped and beaten, the Constitution of the
United States was torn to shreds, and those
defending that Constitution were killed.
What prompts me to call attention to this
issueris not a dislike or disrespect of that
region that was represented by the Stars and
Bars, but rather my great love of the ideas

represented in the Stars and Stripes. Which
brings me to my next complaint.

What boggles me even more is when
someone ﬂies the American ﬂag alongside the
Rebel ﬂag. The United States’ most bloody
war in its history was against the Confed-
eracy. I do not question that Robert E. Lee
was a great man, but the fact is undeniable
that he engineered the deaths of hundreds
of thousands of courageous soldiers fight-
ing in the name of the Constitution and of
America The flag of the United States and
the flag of the Confederacy are no more com-
patible than the political views of Abraham
Lincoln and Jefferson Davis.

Southern pride, perhaps, might be a more
acceptable justification for ﬂying the Rebel
ﬂag. But then, why must we use the Confed-
erate ﬂag? ‘Show your pride in being from
the south by putting up your South Carolina
flags, your Georgia ﬂags, what have you.

Certainly I don’t need to advise the proud

citizens of Texas hereat W&L of this fact,

the rest of us shouldfollow their lead (though I '

I doubt I’ll be ﬂying the bear ﬂag any time
soon).

I recognize that, not being from the South
myself, I may not understand some aspects
of this odd practice. I invite all of you who
disagree to write in to explain your point of
view. This article is simply my own explana-
tion of why I object to this practice, given
what I know about the situation, and I am
particularly eager on this occasion to gain
an understanding of why images like the
photo adjacent to this article continue in their
relevance. Th-is is the 21st Century. Flying
cars and ﬂoating cities are‘ still a long way

 

I PHOTOCOUROF ‘Eh’! an..0rg

MEANINGI£SS. The ﬂag ﬂies in South Carolina

off, but I had hoped, at least, that the ﬂag of
the Confederacy would have ceased to be a
meaningful symbol. I would imagine that few
W&L students would seriously defend the
rebels’ politics, why would they choose to
fly their ﬂag? Perhaps one of you can en-
lighten me, but for the moment, I simply do
not understand why this near—150 years dead
nation continues to command respect.

‘Y

|"HSPiRED_,B‘I!’ H  RU  Stills A D DARWIN.

Seats five, has  cubic
feet at cargo space, and
is available with 180 hp

and a 6-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
can’! fully explain it.

 rates was sass. LL15 iii», sac acne use
maraanase*mmcat:iai:a.cwaes
carves!  are  ta. acme tax
aria Lmss,  its asam ,  
  airs  he an

  

]oHNl-IYIAN)
AmANrSi>oRisEi>rroir
mm m

 

THERl1\lG~TU1vlPH1

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2004

PORTS .

Baseball wins home opener, 10-4

’ BY JOHN HYIAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS Ei)rroRs

The W&L baseball team opened the season 3-
2 in their February break in Atlanta, beating
Oglethorpe twice, splitting with Villa Julie and drop-
ping a tight 4-3 decision to Emory. They returned
to Lexington and won their home opener on
Wednesday against Southern Virginia, who entered

the game 2-3.

The Generals took a 3-0 lead in the second
inning and led 3-1, when they broke the game open
in the fourth on senior first baseman Bryan Mulhem
hit a bases loaded double that scored three runs
and gave the Generals a 6-1 lead. W&L would score
three more runs in the ﬁfth and another insurance
run in the eight en route to a 10-4 win. For the game,
Mulhem went 3 for 4 with four RBIs. Sophomore
second baseman Scott Gosselink also went 3 for 4
with two runs scored and senior shortstop Austin
Allain was 2 for 3 with two runs and an RBI. The
Generals were also helped by four errors made by
SVU ﬁelders that translated into three unearned
runs. Senior pitcher Mike Wert was stellar on the
mound, allowing one run and striking out six over
six innings to improve his record to 2-0 on the year.
Mulhem added two innings of scoreless relief to

close the game.

The Generals faced Mt. Aloysius in a double-
header on Sunday and have one more non-confer-
ence game against Mary Washington on Wednes-
day before starting their ODAC season next Satur-

day vs Emory and Henry.

SWIIIIIIIIING. The baseball team starts their home season strong with 21

PAGE 5

Womens’ basketball falls in
tournament quarterfinals

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

SALEM, Va. — The eighth-seeded
Washington and Lee women’s basketball
team used a 14-2 run late in the second
half to pull within 62-61 of top-seeded
Eastern Mennonite, but came up short as
the Generals fell, 64-61, to the Royals in
the opening round of the ODAC touma-
ment on Thursday afternoon.

Vtfith 8:50 ‘remaining, EMU (22-3) held
a 60-41 lead over W&L (9-17), but saw
that lead slowly evaporate over the next
7:06.

Sophomore guard Louisa Feve
(Bethesda, Md./Winston Churchill)
started the Generals’ comeback bid with a
pair of foul shots at 8234, while junior for-
ward Emily Barker (Clifton, Va./Mount
Vernon) drained a three-pointer at 7:59 to
cut the Royals’ lead to 60-52.

Eastern Mennonite ended its score-
less streak when sophomore forward
Regina Sours scored a layup at 6:59, but
freshman guard Sarah Otey (Williamsburg,
Va./I-Iampton-Roads) answered for the
Generals with a triple at 6:34 to pull W&L
back to within 62-55.

Womens’ swim team takes first V

BY ANN STEWART BANKER
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
swim team took first place at the ODACI
Atlantic. States Championship held at
Radford University over Feb Break. The
win marked the team’s 11th consecutive
claim to the ODAC title, a conference con-
sisting of ﬁve colleges. The women’s team
just barely edged out its main rival,
Randolph Macon, for the ODAC win,
outscoring them by only 37 points with a
total of 557.

“Randolph Macon has been a big ri-
val for the past two years,” said senior co-
captain Erin Dougherty. The lady Gener-
als lost to ‘them in the regular dual season
meet. According to Dougherty, Head
Coach Kiki Jacobs had predicted her team
to win ODACs by a mere seven points.

The events were spread out over three
days. Day one, senior co—captain Mandi
Kimble started the meet off on a good note
by placing second in the 500 Free with a
career-best of 5:32.54. Freshman Sarah
Bloom was not far behind, coming in third
in the same event with a time of
5:38.21.Freshman Abbie Sauter placed
third in the 200 I.M. and also helped the
200 Free Relay team to ﬁnish third, along
with teammates Bloom, Suzie LaPleur and

Kristine Holda.. The Generals 400 Med-
ley Relay team placed second, helping to
put them in the lead at the end of the first
day by only three points.

Day Two, Kimble placed second in
the 400 I.M. and sophomore Kristine
Holda placed second in the 200 Free. Both
the 200 Medley Relay and the 800 Free
Relay clenched second place finishes.

Sophomore Keturah Akida ended the day’

with a second place showing in the 100
Back, allowing the Generals to maintain
their tight lead over Randolph Macon.
Day Three was full of successes for
the Generals. Kimble won the 1650 Free
(mile) withatimeof 19:05.85. Holdaplaced
secondinthe 100 Free withatime'of54.86.
Akida once again displayed her talent in
backstroke by placing third in the 200 Back
while Sauter placed third in the 200 Breast.

The day ended with the Generals placing

second in the 400 Free Relay, securing
them into the first place position.

Upon concluding the meet, Kiki
Jacobs was named Coach of the Year for
the Atlantic States competition. The
W&L women finished the overall season
with a 7—4 record and a 3—1 mark in the
ODAC division. The season has ended,
and the swimmers can now relax (except
for that off-season training) until next year
when they are expected to be back in ac-
tion despite losing three valuable seniors.

10-4 win over Southern Virginia, 10-4.

W&L continued its scoring drive as
freshman forward Jessica Hunsinger

1 (Mayer, Ariz./The Orrne School) scored

back-to-back layups at 4:38 and 3:20, and
senior forward Sara Michaels (Norfolk,
Va./Norfolk Academy) added a bucket at
1:44 to set the score at 62-61.

The Generals would get no closer,
however, as the go-ahead triple attempt
from Barker fell short with ﬁve seconds
remaining and EMU gained the ball and a
trip to the foul line with 1.3 seconds on
the clock. Sophomore guard Carrie
Grandstaff sank a pair of foul shots to set
the final score at 64-61.

Michaels led the Generals with a
game-high 27 points and added 10 re-

bounds, while Hunsinger scored 11 

points, blockedifour shots and grabbed a
game-high 14 rebounds. Otey and Barker
both scored eight points on the afternoon.

Sophomore guard Laura Ludholtz led A

EMU with 21 points and 13 rebounds,
while sophomore forward Stephanie
Mathews and Grandstaff contributed 13
and 12 points, respectively.

The Generals conclude their season - »

with an overall record of 9-17. Eastern
Mennonite, which advances to face

' fourth—seeded Guilford in the ODAC semi-

ﬁnals, improved to 22-3.

Ritter’s change of plans works out Well

school records in both events, but I didn’t expect to do it so
quickly,” he said. “I never thought I would break the pool
record, but again, I surprised myself.”

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRmaR

Eric Ritter did not plan on swimming in college, but he
thought he would give it a shot after coaching a swim team in
his hometown of Birmingham, Alabama the summer before
coming to W&L. And it’s a good thing he did.

The senior captain, who was recently
named Division IH National Swimmer of the
Week by CollegeSwirnrning.com, now holds
two school records and is one of only two
Generals whose name appears on W&L’s pool
record board. But being a successful swirn—
mer wasn’ t anything new for Ritter.

“I started swimming when I was three,
basically because both my older sisters
swam,” he said. “I didn’t really have much of
a choice in the decision. Swimming was just
something that I could do well. There was no
speciﬁc moment when I knew this was some-
thing I wanted to pursue; it just kind of hap-
pened.”

Ritter is a three—time Academic All-Ameri-
can swimmer who has been able to excel in
academics as well as swimming-~—an accom-
plishment he is most proud of, he says.

His record-breaking success began when
he broke the 100 back record as a freshman
and continued as he broke the 200 back record
the following year. Both records had stood
since the late 19803.

Just recently, Ritter beat the 100 back pool
record from the 1982 NCAA championships
hosted by W&L. “I thought I could break the

“HI havebeen able to

Ritter says the team’s closeness and enthusiasm have A . _
really contributed to his personal achievements as well as to . ‘
the team’s strong performances this season. The team’s win

over Gettysburg is a victory Ritter likes to recall.

    

help someone else swim
faster than they expected,
then I have contributed
to the team more than
breaking records or going
to nationals.”
ERIC RIITER

“We went into that meet thinking that it
would be close and that we had to step up
to the challenge,” he said. “And we did
just that and more. The meet ended up be-
ing very lopsided - not because they swam
poorly, but because we simply swam faster
than we had before.”

The men’s team ﬁnished strong this sea-
son when they won the Bluegrass Moun-
tain Charnpionships on February 14. Ritter
helped his teammates receive top honors in
the 400 Medley Relay (3:30.66) and place
second in the 200 Free Relay (1 :26.90). Indi-
vidually, he placed thirdinthe 50free (21.63),
claimed the title in the 100 backstroke (52.20),
and won top honors in the 200 back with a
pool record (1:36.12).

“IfI have been able to help someone else
swim faster than they expected, then I have
contributed to the team more than breaking
records or going to nationals,” he said.

Ritter may be wrapping up his four years
as a W&L athlete, but he has bright plans
for his future. He will be attending Univer-
sity of Alabama-Birrningham Medical
School next year. He hopes to be able to
swim every once and a while.

Tuesday, March 2

Wednesday, March 3

Thursday, March 4

THIS WI-:EK’s SCHEDULE

Saturday, March 6

Friday, March 5

Sunday, March 7

0 M Lax vs. Lycoming--
3:30

O M Tennis at Hampden-
Sydney--3:00

0 W Tennis at Hollins--
3:30

0 W Tennis at
Lynchburg--3:30 ,
°WLax vs. Greensbor0--
4:00

0 Open

0 Baseball vs. Mary
Washington--3:00

1:00

3:00

0 Baseball vs. Emory &
Henry (DH )--12:00
0 M Lax at Gettysburg--

0 WLax at VA Wesleyan--

0 Open

637 Waddell "St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

(s4o) 464-9042

Fax (540)464-6366

 

v

SPORTSWEAR

Ring-tum Phi

STSTRAV

        
    

ELCOM

’ Sell TF5 5 Eu sit, 60 me:
Now wing On~(u’mpAus Raps

L800-648-:28-$9 I wvm.ststravcl.¢om

   
 

Support
Generals’
Athletics

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & ‘
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!
Space _is limited! Book Now & Save!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 

    

PAGE 6

'i'l’rléRt((-}’lit»tl’lll

PORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2004

Lacrosse teams stumble in beginning of the season
Women look past 11 -2 loss to St. Mary’s

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRHER

“We’re faster and stronger than we were last
year and we are ready for a tough schedule,” said
senior Sara Jurkowsky of the upcoming lacrosse
season.

The team returned early from Washington
Holiday to train at Skylark and prepare for competi-
tion. “This year’s team is really working hard on
improving the intensity of our play,” said head
coach Jan Hathorn. “One of our goals is to be con-
ference champions. . .another goal is to be a united
team that is knownfor its spiritgwork ethic, and
sportsmanship.” ‘

Fast and strong proved to be key forces against
Lynchburg on Wednesday. With a home ﬁeld ad-
vantage, the Generals took an early lead and held
on tight for a victory: 21-2 score. ‘Senior Kelly Taffe
and freshmen Kelly Evans and Mallory Lobisser
each claimed three goals for the Generals, leading
the team in scoring.

“I was a little nervous for my first game, but
once I got in there the adrenaline took over,” said
Lobisser of the game against Lynchburg. “The up-
perclassmen set the pace from the start and we had
a lot to live up to.”

Other goal—earners included junior Kristen
Brown, freshman Lane Earnest, senior Joanna Perini
and freshman Laura Hombuckle.

The team then traveled to Saint Mary’s City,
Maryland to take on tenth ranked St. Mary’s. The
ninth ranked Generals were unable to gain a lead
over St. Mary’s. The Seahawks claimed a final vic-
tory over Washington and Lee with a ﬁnal score of
1 1-2. Kelly Evans scored the only two goals by the
Generals.

Nationally ranked tennis teams open ODAC schedules on high note

BY JOHN HYLAND

sf»

CHR L GRA -TUMP

LOOKING AHEAD. Freshman attacker Avery Lovejoy
faces a Lynchburg defender.

As for upcoming games, the Generals have
grand ambition. “Our game plan is to make sure we
are working at our highest level in every game and
to take one game at a time,” said Hathom, “to keep
perspective by not looking too far ahead. We want
to ﬁnish strong!” ‘

The team next hosts Greensboro on Wednes-
day at 4:00PM.

Men fall shon‘ against #4 Washington

 

STEVEN MARINOS THE RING-TUMPHI

SFARCHING. Junior attacker Gavin Molinelli looks
to pass against Washington College.

BY CAMERON GARNER

STAFF WRHER

The Generals faced their first test on Satur-
day, in the form of the‘ Washington College
Shoremen. The tenth-rariked Generals came in with
a head of steam, trading goals with the Shoremen,
and ﬁghting to a 4-4 tie at the half. Solid defense
from senior captain Lawson Grumbine, juniors Eric

Koch and Bill Fox, and freshman Peter Goodwin
kept the Shoremen at bay and allowed the offense
to generate some good shots. Dustin Martin’s ex-
tra-man goal with 43 seconds remaining capped a
solid first half in which the Generals at times looked

as though they were on the verge of turning the

comer and controlling the rest of the game.

The second half would prove frustrating for
the Generals, however, as the defense began to tire
from overwork, and the offense spun its wheels
against a good defense and a 27-year old goalie

(move on with your life). With 12:1 1 left in the third '

quarter, W&L took its first lead of the game as jun-
ior attackman Gavin Molinelli scored the second of
his two goals off a feed from senior midfielder Mark
McLewee.

After over 6 minutes of scoreless lacrosse, the’

Shoremen ripped off a 4- goal spurt and never looked
back. Goals from sophomore attackman Sam Lane
and Chris Dodge, senior midﬁelder Stephen Berger,
and junior attackman Jon Spivey left the Generals
in a 8-5 hole. The fourth quarter began just as the
third, with the Generals coming out and scoring
first, as McLewee was just better than the man
guarding him. He drove from behind, split his man

and riﬂed a shot that super-senior Richard Yost, in
.all his experience (he graduated St. Paul’s high

school in Baltimore in 1993), could do nothing to
stop.

Unfortunately, the Generals couldn’t maintain
the offensive presence they exhibited in the first
half, and couldn’t contain (yeah, that’s right) the
WAC offense, allowing them to score 3 more goals
in the fourth. All—in-all a hard fought game that will
give the Generals much to think about as they look
down the road at Gettysburg. The Generals host
Lycorriing at 3:30 on Tuesday.

AssisTANT SPORTS EDITOR
The nationally ranked men’s

‘ and women’s tennis teams began

their ODAC season in nearly per-
fect fashion this weekend. The
eighth ranked men struggled over
their February break trip to Cali-
fornia against some top ranked
competition. They split their
squad this weekend so that one

team competed in a couple of non
conference match-ups in St. Paul,
Minnesota while the rest of the
team stayed in Lexington to be-
gin their ODAC schedule. The
Minnesota squad lost to third
ranked Gustavus Adolphus 7-0
on Friday to drop their record to
1-4. That squad roared back yes-
terday to defeat ﬁfteenth ranked
Bates handily, 6- 1, dropping only

first singles and first doubles.
Graham Nix, Austin Kim and K.C.
Schaefer each won their singles
and doubles matches. Mean-
while, the Lexington squad did
not lose a match in three meet-

ings with ODAC opponents, de— '

feating Virginia Wesleyan,
Bridgewater and Emory and
Henry to improve the team’s
overall record to 5-4, 3-0 ODAC.

Charles Anderson and Seth Mar-
tin each won all four of their
matches as the Generals appear
well on their way to repeat as
ODAC champs. They resume
their ODAC schedule on
Wednesday at Hampden-
Sydney.

The women also appeared
well on their way to repeating as
ODAC champs. Last year’s na-

tional runners-up and current
second ranked team in the nation
opened the season by defeating
Emory and Henry and Virginia
Wesleyan very handily, dropping
only one match. The Generals
used twelve different players in
the two meets and each player
won at least one match. They re-
sume their ODAC schedule on
Wednesday at Hollins.

Suppon
  W & L
-Sports

Your

 

Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program prepares college
graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the best medical schools by giving
them the personal attention, the necessary
science and math courses, and one-to-one
-academic advising. 1

For more information, visit
www.jhu.eduIpostbac or call 410-516-7748.

 want to become a doctor.”(

IOHNS HOPKINS

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

Your _
Reality:
“I don’t have the

required courses
for medical school.”

 

 

 

 LIFE

    

  

MEGANMORGAN
ARis&LiEEEDiioR

EMAEMoi<GANM1@wiUE1J

    

 

‘ PAGE 7 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004
I . O O O O
. Heinz scholar knows ketchup, Washington and Lee diversity
Did you know that ketchup can actually they’ve been in Newark ever since.Ted attended gentlemen living at the.Chavis House have
taste different? It’s very true, according to one St. George’s School in Newport, Rhode Island. solved that problem for themselves—they
of W&L’s first Heinz Scholars, sophomore Ted Ted can thank his senior roommate for bought the equipment and now cut each other’s

‘ Archer. This past summer he sampled 30 introducing him to W&L. The roommate had hair.
different types while interning at the Heinz been a summer scholar and returned to St. “W&L people for the most part are some
headquarters in downtown Pittsburgh. Some George’sin the fall asahuge W&Lfan. Ted was of the nicest people you could meet
types of ketchup can be too salty, others have filling out the common application and decided anywhere,” Ted says, but there’s room for

, iioo much vinegar. “Heinz to send it t<ifW&L on a whim. improvement. gne of the bilggistfpdroblems

etchup really is the best W“%'“‘¥”—> Byatwisto ate, Ted got in and for W&L, as Te sees it, is a“ ac 0 iversity
tasting,” Ted asserts, though MORETHANMAINSTREAM the roommate did not (however, of thought” not a lack of diversity. “Some of
he might be slightly partial. KELLYJQ LAR3EN‘05 he did get into Sewanee and is the stuff people can get away with here,” Ted
As a Heinz scholar, Ted, a happy there). St. George’s was says, is shocking.

hi sophomore public policy major, receives a full a ‘lot like W&L, according to Ted. “lt only has When he first arrived at W&L, he found
tuition scholarship from the Heinz Corporation about 330 kids and only 20 black people,” Ted the amount of Confederate ﬂags disturbing.
and will intern with the company each summer. explains. Coming to W&L wasn't aculture shock “I don’t like it but I’m more indifferent to it
“It benefits them [Heinz] as much as us,” Ted for him then. “I was used to_it. It not terribly now. It could even be someone I’m friends  , .i n

‘ explains. Not only do the Heinz Scholars receive representative of the real world but its close with, but it’s the way they’ve been taught to JEBBROOKS RING-TUMPHI
a quality education at W&L, the company has enough,” Ted says. think. For them it really is a sense of pride and stereotypes and making assumptions, to
the chance to hand pick and groom leaders who‘ So far Ted has enjoyed his time here. “I history and that out weighs the way other actually go out and seek the truth and real
will eventually graduate and have loyalty to haven’t run into really any problems,” Ted people on campus feel. Hopefully in time it answers instead of accepting what everyone
the company, ‘perhaps even work for Heinz explains, but “there are a lot of things that won’t,” Ted says. “It’s not like people don’t else thinks. If you think something is wrong,

It sometime in the future. concern me.” Like most people, Ted has his pet— know it offends others, they just don’t care. do something about it. Also, keep in mind that

The second son of Haitian immigrants, his peeves about Lexington. He argues that there Its years and years of learned behavior and minorities are very diverse. If you feel like
parents left Haiti and moved to France before is no place for a black man to get his hair cut in it’s gonna take years and years to unlearn that you’ve had a bad experience with one person
coming to the USA in the mid seventies. They Lexington. “That’s more of a psychological behavior.” don’t take that to mean that’s how everyone is.

I settled in Brooklyn but moved to Newark, New thing than a problem. For black men, when you To his fellow students issues the following The same goes for minority students about
* Jersey, when Ted was five. Ted describes the go to the barbershop it’s like you’reanew man challenge: “I would challenge all students on majority students. Don’t feed into the
moved as from “really urban” tojust urban, and when you come out.” He and his fellow the W&L campus to, instead of accepting stereotypes.”
. .
w W &L seniors, Fancy Dress changes for better

« ° ' BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN more of the university community. In committee. The use of Traveller is en-

’ a '   W 6 - ASSISTANTARTSANDLIFEEDITOR the past athletes have had to miss the couraged plus many student drivers

‘I. ball. Also, the excitement of the week— have been hired.

end will build up to FD. The invitations for this year's event

BY MEGAN MORGAN the e3mPuS Or W3Shrhgr0h Many changes mark the 97"‘ Annual The Voltage Brothers, a band ap— have caused controversy. The ‘invita-

ART3&Ll1:E EDHOR 3nd ‘Lee UhrVerSrrY- Fur’ Fancy Dress Ball which will be held pearing in several movies including tions were in the form ofagolden ticket.

ii rewlhg 3 heheymeeh 111 Saturday in the Warner Center. Willy Shag, will play in the big gym. They The words were taken directly from the

I _ iwaresa the brides graduar‘ Wonka and the Chocolate Factory will play several different genres of mu— movie. Some students made the assump-

fAS Washmgmn and Le_e rug rh «lune from W33hrhg' be the theme of Fancy Dress this year. sic. The second noticeable change is tion that their invitation was afree ticket.
seniors prepare for their ton and Lee, will j0ih the It will begin at 9 p.m. and go until 1 that the small gym will have aprofes— However, that is not the case. The co-
rapldly ,ap' gruoms 311 a.m. Co-chairs of this year’s ball are sional DJ instead of a band. The DJ chairs said that the invitation wording

‘. pro ac hi n g alumnus Of Beth Creasey and Abby Harding. will fit in with the theme of the small was a “silly mistake.” They, acknowl-
graduatmm’ Washington Planning for FD started in Septem— gym. “We really wanted to try some— edge that it was confusing, especially
Lhey haze 3r1d Lees rh ber with weekly meetings and the se- thing different,” said Creasey. It is a for freshmen. To get into Fancy Dress

egun 0 B13ekShurga lection of the committee members. The way to keep the price of Fancy Dress you must buy real tickets. '

K inake plarls V r r 8 r h r 3 » theme was decided in October. Every low. Last year tickets were $120. This Tickets will be on sale in the Com-

.°r. the” Where he 15 night this week, the FD committee yearapackageis $90. mons LivingRoomthroughFriday. Tick-
hves post" P u r 5 u r h 8 members will be at the pavilion build— While Creasey and Harding would ets are $30 a piece and packages are -$90.
W&L‘ These g r 3 d u 3 r e ing the decorations. not reveal what the gyms would look Packages include two tickets, t—shirts.
plans are Sruures rh The first change made was to hold like, they did say that they tried to shot glasses, posters, and four cups..

1, for. both C,1V1.1 Ehgl- Fancy Dress on Saturday instead of capture the richness of the movie set Memorabilia and tickets can be pur-
the” Careers heer1hg- Friday at the suggestion of the Execu- Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Fac— chased independent of each other. “It’s
end r_e1a_'  i 3 E 3‘-‘V v ‘’ Kim ‘ tive Committee. The reason the day tory. going to be worth it. Everyone will have
nonshlp 5’ I Bu1k3 ’04 re" was changed was to accommodate Safety is a top priority of the FD a great time guaranteed,” said Harding.
and the re— eently an-

V’ Sulr rs r10r nounced her ,
 of   Gerbi oun y oor o ommons
Ohry 3 en a ement 1 f d b d f C
luh rhr:r* Lepine, a -
views ut . « I _

“i also several ib . h , d 1 _ “ :Y:£i"0§rar:i1:e BYMEGANMORGAN Brittany describes herself as being “like a five year
recent en_ A “g t 03 an B evms 04 wedding is ARTS&’.LlFEEDr1"OR old boy”, and therefore she didn’t hesitate to pick up
gageineni annonneeinenie planned for 4 pm. on Au_ . i the rodent and take it back to her room where she
Recently, two seniors have gust 14, 2004 in RE. Lee Many students may have noticed a string of odd stored it in a storage binland fed it mixed nuts. .

* announced their engage_ Memorial Episcopai announcements that have been ap— Brittany and her friend Emily

pearing recently in the Campus No-
tices. Among the strangest of these
was a notice attempting to locate the
owner of a lost gerbil. For those of
you that may have been puzzled by
this announcement, here is the story
behind the notice.

Freshman Brittany Bansak wa
walking to the Commons ‘last week
when she noticed a rodent crouched
against the wall. While she was not sure what type
of rodent it was, whether it was a mouse or gerbil,

Edwards then placed a message on the
Campus Notices in search of the owner
of this gerbil. The two received several
responses ranging from people inter-
ested in adopting the gerbil to people
stating that gerbils were evil. While the
owner has not decisively been located,
the two believe that the animal belongs
to a Phi Delt off—campus house, which
recently had a litter of baby gerbils. Brit-
tany has decided to keep the gerbil, which is black with
white paws and has half its tail missing, but she has

ments.
Amy Elizabeth Blevins,
daughter of Roger and Julie
_ Blevins of Greenville, South
‘ Carolina and Dustin Graham
Albright, son of Daniel and
Sandra Albright of
Roanoke, Virginia joyfully,
y and in thanksgiving to God,
announce their engage-
ment. The wedding will be

Church. Kim is a biology
major and Ryan graduated
with an accounting degree.
Ryan currently works for
Resnick, Fedder and
Silverman in Bethesda,
Maryland. After the wed-
ding, Kim will move to their
townhouse in Maryland
which is in the process of
being built and teach the

 

   

COLRTESYOF P .REl’I'lIJ:'S.ORG

    

     

       

 

 

   

held inAugust in Lexington, elementary level at a _ _ _ i _
Virginia at Lee Chapel on Montessori School‘ she was sure it was a pet because it didn t run away. not named it yet.
‘.
Tom ames Com an
Home for Sale Have a fun, safe ’ P V
 M/inns“. -_ _j . V‘ V .. ’§?é"- I
«A s A  3*   ‘5 Fancy Dress Weekend ‘“‘"“°‘.“"
Internship?
Special occasion?
i Let us help you look and feel
your best!!
Custom and Ready Made Suits
, " 704 N. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON, VA and Sports Coats
Built circa 1880 on Institute Hill, now completely restored with Shins, pants, shoes and all accessories
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
1' , New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors. garden
4 Bedrooms, I 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new I Student Pack“ es &
kitchen plus a large utility/oﬂice Room. Large third ﬂoor A ,7   Gi l Cefti icate-5' Awlilable
Y storage room and an attached outside storage area. Get ready for FanCy Dress ' ‘F 5  J
Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls on at our new locatlon In East Lex E I '5? —“
terraced landscaping. E‘ _-' ,._' ’ _ _
Convenient parlemg "‘ Cf"“‘a°‘Adaf“Ul:11htam5
w Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping. oran appoin en or
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly. More to offer than ever before '_ with questions
Asking $229,000.
. . 540-815-4557
(540)464-3738 _ _ _ _
, or www.j effersonﬂoristhomestead:com Adam_W1ihams@t0mJameSretali_C0m
(54())45(}47lg 540.463.9841 603 North Lee Highway .

 

PAGE 8

- THE

riitlirxic-riiitiPrr

AST ORD

MFGANMORGAN
ARis&LiFEEDiior<
Fi¢iAi;rit)RcANi/ii@wr1i.ie3ri
MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2004

Wintergreen Resort offers nice, close break from Lexington

BY ALLISON PERRY AND
KRISTINE CALDERONE
CONRIBUTING EDITOR AND STAFF warns}:

While most of the school attended Mardi Gras
for Feb. break, we decided to check out someplace
a little more exciting: Wintergreen Resort. Not as
exciting as Mardi Gras, you say? Well, you are
right, but we had a good time nonetheless.

Wintergreen is about an hour and a half drive
up 64E. If you are looking for a quick skiing get-
away for a night or even just the day, Vtrrntergreen
is probably your best bet. Snowshoe Mountain is
actually probably the best resort in the Virginia/
West Virginia area, but the drive of about 3 hours
or so makes it difﬁcult to go for just the day and get
in a decent amount of skiing.

We chose to stay Wednesday and Thursday
night and ski on Thursday and Friday. If you can
manage to skip a few classes, going during the
week is the way to go. The mid-week deals are
pretty good, and the slopes are a lot less crowded.
For a fairly low price, we could stay two nights in a
pretty nice room and ski for two days and nights.
We are not sure what exactly it was, but we would
describe the room as a studio/loft sort of thing.
The fact that we could walk out of the room right
onto the slope and put our skis on there was an
added bonus.

As for the slopes themselves, they were alright
but lacked variety._ Beginner and Intermediate ski-
ers may get bored easily after completing the three
or four slopes in each category.

The Highland side of the mountain offered a
little more selection for expert skiers. But we could
see that true experts (not being true experts our-
selves) might want something more. We found
ourselves spending more time on the ski lift than
the slopes.

Another complaint about the Highland side is
the discrepancy between the markings on the trail
and those on the map. The map shows that Lower
Cliffhanger is a double black diamond slope,
whereas the trail itself is marked as just a black
diamond. If skiers are not careful, they may ﬁnd
themselves in a pickle if they choose the wrong
trail. Just ask Kristine.

So if you go to Wintergreen to try some ski-
ing, take our advice on our favorite trails. Look-
ing to try a black diamond that is not as difficult
as some? Try Devil’s Elbow. Sticking to the inter-
mediate trails? Stay away from Tequila. (Well that
advice always works. We personally have not
had good experiences with any form of Tequila.)
Tequila was quite narrow and icy and also ran
right into an expert slope. Funny how Tequila
always throws us into situations we regret.

It is also worth the trip to go up on a Tuesday
or Thursday night because the UVA ski team prac-

A PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY or FANCY DRESS

Washington and Lee’s Special Collections.

On the left, students gather around the refreshment stand to chat at the 1950 Coca Cola themed Fancy
Dress. On the top right, students gather in a circle to Watch the festivities at the’ 1936 Washington and Lee
Fancy Dress. The woman in the photo on the right is President Ford’s daughter. All photos are courtesy of

tices then. Not only are they entertaining to
watch, they are quite attractive. But not as at-
tractive as the topless dirty old man that we
watched go down the expert slopes many times.
We’ll give him credit; he’s really experienced (in
skiing we mean. . .we don’t know about other ar-
eas.) But was it really warm enough to be skiing
without a shirt on? Do the rest of Wintergreen’s
patrons a favor and put your shirt back on! If we
wanted to see topless dirty old men, we would
have gone to...well we don’t know where we
would have gone.

On the subject of good-looking skiers (and
not so good—looking), let’s talk about the cute
ski lift attendants. There were definitely two
that caught our eye. But the situation poses a
little bit of a problem. How does one throw
game at the ski lift attendant when you only
have a few seconds to get on the lift and then
you’re gone? The first time you get on the lift,
you can always say, “Hi, how are you doing
today?” But what happens next time? The few
seconds you have only allow for a “Hi, Hello”
exchange, and you’ve already used that! And
heaven forbid should you miss the chair and
bust it on the ice in front of the attendant. Then
he has to stop the lift and help you up while
everyone looks and laughs. However, maybe
this would allow for a lengthier conversation
between the two.

Don’t worry. If you are not a skier, Winter-
green still offers other activities such as
snowboarding, tubing, golﬁng, and, of course, the
spa. Sadly, we did not have time to try any of these.

And if you do try any of these activities, you’ll
probably be hungry and looking for somewhere to
eat. But you won’t have much of a selection. There
are about six places to eat at the resort, but it’s
difficult to know when they are open. Some of the
restaurants are only open for certain seasons or for
holidays. Whatever you do, don’t go to the Edge
restaurant unless you are looking for an extremely
bad turkey sandwich and watery Diet Coke. On
that note, the Edge is probably the only place there
that sells Diet Coke. That is one huge strike against
Wintergreen for us. But the Edge does have a wide
selection of hot alcoholic drinks such as Hot Apple
Toddys. Yum.

Also stay away from Checkerberry cabin.
While it is convenient being right next to the en-
trance to the expert slopes, only go there if you like
all things German. We have nothing against Ger-
man food, this was just bad German food. The beef
goulash was not so much tempting.

All in all, we liked Vlfintergreen for a close and
convenient skiing get-away and give it three out of
ﬁve tridents. We must take away a few tridents for
the lack of night life and poor selection in restau-
rants. However, the topless dirty old man did make
the trip interesting and warrants at least one trident.

Q How can a pledgeship that never really started,
end?

 

Q Can we now agree to tear down Leybum Li-
brary? The only thing that maintained the awesome-
ness of it—— the powdered soap— was recently
changed to liquid.

Q “Piss in a cup and I’ll drink it.” -Travis Smith

Q I wish Sigma Alpha Omicron would stop using
Campus Notices for their Rush.

Q Michael Razvan Gaico is Scattergories King!

Q The best euphemism for pledgeship heard this.

week: “administrative duties.”

Q The fireman’s axe may be heroic, but can it
compare to the plumber’s plunger?

Q Queer Eye interior design tip for the Commons:
Though George, has a very lovely sword, he may
be better suited’ for the top of a building rather than
the inside.

Q Fact: The only reason our holier-than—thou
president “supported” the 12- 1 2-6 schedule was
that Traveller haunted him every night until he gave
in. He won’t be closing those doors again in a hurry.

Q I’m willing to pay good money to anyone will-
ing to act as a sniper and take out all those girls
who insist on wearing backless two-inch heels
arounds school in the ice and snow. You look ri-
diculous! If you want to parade around like that,
ask your Daddy to buy you a country club.

Q Seduction tip of the day: Perch atop a coffee
table sans clothes.

Q Whoever pooped in my drawer: Please come
clean it up ASAP!

Q Best Famous Lovers costume: JH as herself
and her date as an 803 band member. Take that
Kappa Sig.

Q Is Lalli really well-endowed? Can anyone ac-
tually conﬁrm that?

Q Scott Pittman has a hot body, but I think I’d
have a better chance with him if he ever drank
alcohol.

Q It’s sad when your shoe collection has more
character than you do.

Q I would rather get pink eye than go to sketchy
“late night." .

Q “Crazy” sounds like a nickname for an 80-year-
old man with missing front teeth.

Q Did you vote today in the student govern-
ment election?

Q Is your birthday on the Leap Day? If so, you’re
in. good company. Other Leap Day babies include
Pope Paul III, Dinah Shore and Ja Rule, who cel-
ebrated his seventh or 28th birthday yesterday.

Q What in the Hayulll are those spider posters
littering our fair campus?

I Q More on the arachnid propaganda: Kudos to

the posters’ posters for using Latin. Double Ku-
dos to whomever corrected the Latin grammar.

Q Jock Wols is devilishly handsome.

Q Thank you, Jan Kaufman, for your great cam-
pus notices. I was so excited to learn that last week
was both National Eating Disorders Awareness
Week and Children of Alcoholics Week. It was al-
most too much excitement to handle all at once.

Q Web Registration hurts my index finger.

Q Three cheers for the baseball team. Way to
win the home opener!

Q San Francisco was just the ﬁrst step. I‘say it’s

time for GLBTQTSIPQ marriage.

Q Attention Texan males: I’m normally opposed
to importing dates, but I’d make an exception for
one of the Bush twins. Plus, they’re a lot hotter
than Gerald Ford’s daughter.

Q W&L’s JFK: Is Tom Burish the University’s
first ever Catholic president?

Q The Co—op should stop forgetting orders.

Q Quick Poll: Would_W&L women rather have a
Tiffany or Harry VVmston engagement ring?

Q Phi phashion tip: Plain front pants, unless part
of a tuxedo or jeans, should be illegal.

Q Save the date: J eb Brooks’ 21st birthday party.
Friday, March 26 at the LCA house featuring
Monticello Road.

Q Finally, Spring is on the way.

Q Ten RCHS seniors agree. Brett Kirwan is a
“nerd.”

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu.

