 
 
   

.

JEB BROOKS

EDITOR IN CHIEF

Kevin White has resigned his post as Execu-
tive Committee Vice President. White was ar-
rested on Saturday, October 4 at l0:45p.m. for
driving under the inﬂuence of alcohol.

Helen Hughes, President of the Executive
Committee, said that, “the EC supports his resig-
nation and wishes the best for Kevin.”

As of The Ring-tum Phi ’s press time plans
for replacing White had not been ironed out.
Hughes plans to make the campus aware of the
EC’s procedures as soon as possible.

According to police reports, central dispatch
received a report of an accident at the intersec-
tion of Nelson and Main in downtown Lexington
on Saturday night. Officer Jonathan G. Shenk
arrived on the scene where he discovered that
White’s Chevrolet Blazer struck another vehicle.
The officer deduced that White had not waited
for the other car to proceed through the intersec-
tion before he commenced his left turn. White
was charged with failing to yield the right-of-way

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
T HE

NG-TUM

Tie rhrdrril roire of Washington and Lie Urrirerrin shire 7897
Executive Committee vice president arrested, resigns

PHI

.O2%

.10%

.30%

 

How DRUNK ARE YOU? KNOW YOUR BAC.

 

Each mug equivalent to .()l%. Statistics from Virginia Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.

The legal lirriit for persons under 21 driving under the inﬂuence.

 

The legal limit for persons age 21 and over while driving.

up to 12 months

ing to Sutton.

2CI)E’s complaint
against AACIJ to
be heard Tuesday

 

ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s lo-
cal fraternity drama will be taken
to the national level this week.

On Tuesday, the North-
American Interfraternity Confer-
ence (NIC) will hear Sigma Phi
Epsilon National’s complaint
against Alpha Delta Phi Na-
tional with regard to the coloni-
zation on Washington and Lee’s
campus. AD Phi has initiated
members who had been initiated
into SigEp.

A problem arises because
SigEp does not believe it re-
leased the brothers of its Wash-
ington and Lee chapter when it
revoked their charter. AD Phi
believes that the men are no
longer brothers of SigEp and
were therefore eligible for initia-
tion into AD Phi.

“The complaint is that Al-
pha Delta Phi violated the Co-
mity Agreement,” said Dean of
Students Dawn
Watkins, “If AD
Phi is found in
violation, the
penalties asso-
ciated with that
will be at the
National level.”

“The complaint is that
Alpha Delta Phi violated
the Comity Agreement. If

AD Phi is found in
violation, the penalties

ternity, until the fraternity with
which such group was previ-
ously connected has officially
given written notice to the Con-
ference that all rights have been
waived by them, or until five
years have elapsed from the date
of resignation or disassocia-
tion.”

According to Watkins, the
Comity Agreement is something
the NIC takes very seriously,
“Jon Williamson [President of
the NIC] told me that the Comity
Agreement is ‘one of the most
sacred aspects of the Constitu-
tion,”’ she said.

Watkins also believes that
it is somewhat ironic that the is-
sue arises because of the Comity
Agreement, because normally
smaller fraternities are protected
by the agreement, whereas in this
case, the larger fraternity is
SigEp and it is using the Comity
agreement to act against the
much smallerAD Phi.

SigEp has 264 chapters na-
tionally, while
AD Phi has 26
chapters in the
U.S. and
Canada.

The University
will be informed
of the NIC’s de-

Punishmentwill _ _ _ cision before
not be gar_ associated with that will be noon on
nered at the 10- at the National level_’’ Wednesday.
cal level. The NIC is
The NIC DAWNWATKINS composed of 66
vice president DEANOFSTUDENTS fraternal orga-
called Watkins nizations,witha

on Friday morning to inform her
about the hearing Tuesday.

If AD Phi is found to be in
violation of the Comity Agree-
ment, it may appeal the deci-
sion at the NIC’s next board
meeting in April, however, in the
interim, any penalties would
remain in effect.

The Comity agreement
states that, “No member frater-
nity shall accept a petition for
membership, grant colony or
other affiliated status, or grant
a charter to any group sub-
stantially representing an exist-'
ing or previously resigned or
disassociated colony or active
chapter of another member fra-

total of 5500 chapters in the
United States and Canada. It is
led by a Board of Directors, all
volunteers, and headquartered
in Indianapolis. Its rriission is
to, “advocate the needs of its
member fraternities through en-
richment of the fraternity experi-
ence; advancement and growth
of the fraternity community; and
enhancement of the educational
mission of the host institutions.

The NIC is also committed
to enhancing the benefits of fra-
ternity membership,” according
to its Mission Statement.

Efforts to get in touch with
SigEp’s Executive Director were
unsuccessful.

to the other vehicle.
Shenk began filing a routine report. While talk-

White was charged with failing to yield the
right-of—way, driving under the inﬂuence and re-
ing With White, th€ Ofﬁcer n0tiC6d 8 strong Smell Of fusing a breathalyzer test. He is scheduled to
alcohol as well as his bloodshot and watery eyes.
This gave probable cause for an arrest.

appear in court on October 21 at 9:00a.m.
According to Officer Sutton of the Lexington

was elected to the

PMONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 

Police Department, judges have a great deal of
leeway with a case such as this one. White
faces the possibility of losing his driver license
for up to 12 months and being fined. The judge
also has the opportunity to sentence White to

in jail. Because this punish-

ment is more severe, it is also more rare, accord-

The University’s policies may also affect
White. The Student Judicial Committee hears
all cases of drunk driving. The suggested pen-
alty for driving under the inﬂuence of alcohol is
suspension. According to the 2003-2004 Stu-

“drunkenness, when it results

in behavior that endangers self or others” can

Equivalent to dent Handb00K
surgical
anesthesia. I'CS1llt  3  Strike.

The book also states that a first strike re-
sults in, “mandatory education and counseling,
plus moderate sanction. Parents notiﬁed upon
charge and disposition.”

White is a member of the Law class of 2004.
His undergraduate degree is from Randolph-
Macon College, where he graduated in 1999. He

Executive Committee last year.

Homecoming 2003

Crowned Queen! Carolyn Duffy, Pi Kappa Phi’s nominee for Homecoming Queen was crowned. “It was such a shock to hear my named called as the _
Homecoming Queen. Itwas a day I’ll never forget, the perfect collegernemory. I’m so proud that both students and faculty chose me to represent the
University, and it has been humbling to receive congratulations ﬁom so many different people,” said Duffy. See page 7 for more on Homecoming.

STEVEN MARINOS/ RING-TUM PHI

Phi Eta Sigma, national honor
fraternity, works for recognition

This year, Washington and Lae’s campus‘ will see a publicity campaign for freshmen by this fraternity

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Phi Eta Sigma might not be
the most recognized name on
campus, but it
claims over 130
W&L students
as members.

This national
honor society for
college fresh-
men, was
founded in 1923
at the University
of Illinois at Ur-
b a n a -
Champaign, mak- .
ing it the oldest _
freshman honor- _
ary society in
America. It has
over 700,000 members nation-
ally spread amongst over 300
chapters.

W&L’s

chapter was

  
 
 
 

founded in 1937, making it the
oldest Phi Eta Sigma chapter in
Virginia; the next oldest is the
one at William and Mary,
founded in 1965. This year, Phi
Eta Sigma is de-
termined to make
sure its name is
better recog-
nized at W&L.

‘ The officers
are junior Alex
Schaerrer, presi-
dent; senior
Cullen Carter,
vice president;
junior Robyn
Konkel, secre-
tary; and junior
Kim Sanford,
treasurer.

They most re-
cently met on Sept. 23 with
Deans George Bent and David
Leonard to plan out their activi-
ties for the year and brainstorm

how to make their presence
more widely known on cam-
pus.

Said Schaerrer, “Our goal
is to make Phi Eta Sigma a
driving force on campus. We
want to help serve as a bridge
between learning and leader-
ship.”

Some of the key methods
which they identified to in-
crease their name-recognition
include t—shirts, a page in the
yearbook, and sponsoring
more community service
events.

They are also working to-
wards increasing their
“group solidarity,” as Bent
put it, by doing things like
planning activities for their
members which balance fun
with the intellectual caliber of
its members.

According to Schaerrer,
membership in Phi Eta Sigma

requires a class standing in
the top 20 percent at the close
of winter term.

Membership is not auto-
matically conferred upon
freshmen meeting this re-
quirement; they must apply
and be selected by the soci-
ety.

Benefits of the society in-
clude recognition from em-
ployers

To help increase aware-
ness of Phi Eta Sigma among
the freshman class, the group
plans on having an ice cream
social followed by a movie in
the Commons at a point in the
not too distant future.

Plans are also in the
works to find out if faculty can
be inducted as honorary mem-
bers of Phi Eta Sigma. For more
information on Phi Eta Sigma,
contact President Alex
Schaerrer.

 

  

  

JAMES (3. ?..39'W_,.3$«” ‘.-it‘:'{ﬂY
 5  m‘

PAGE 27

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

  

N-Its‘aR.t-rs-'tr=:.a'Et§

Plans for PayneHall renovatio

Construction. To help facilitate the renovation being done on Payne Hall, there has been a fence constructed
around the building so as to block any construction sounds and hide any messes made. The fence has been
painted red in order to preserve the uniformity of the Colonnade. The Payne Hall Construction is just the ﬁrst

in a series of renovations on the Colonnade.

Payne Hall is receiving the first of many up-
dates to the Colonnade. The old Dean of Students
ofﬁce is being converted into a new meeting room.
The room will be entitled the
Mason New Room in honor of
Mason New, an alumnus of
Washington and Lee. A gift
was given in his honor to fund
the room. The gift covers all
of the cost which comes to a total of $500,000.

“The money was given by a foundation in
honor of [New] so the President could have a for-
mal reception area for important guests,” stated
Joe Grasso, Vice President for Administration. Vari-
ous groups can also use the Mason New Room for
high visibility speakers and meetings.

The former Dean of Students ofﬁces are now
going to be one room. “The Mason New Room is
unique in that we have an architect form
Charlottesville who is a Washington and Lee alum-
nus,” commented Grasso. The plan is for the Ma-
son New Room to have a historical interior design.
The Mason New Room will pay tribute to the
university’s rich past and presence in Rockbridge
County.

The wall treatment and furniture of the Mason
New Room will be from period style of 100 to 150
years ago. “This will not be a stuffy restored room,

  
 

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS

it become a reality

but a room that has a historic presence that func-
tions in a modern way,” said Grasso. Possible art
work may include portraits of various United States
presidents or portraits of very
important people to Washing-
ton and Lee.

A construction fence has
been placed around the build-
ing. ‘This function of the fence
is to reduce the noise and visual construction. The
project began September 1 with internal demolition
and removal of asbestos from the building. The
construction is expected to be completed in the
middle of January 2004.

The ofﬁces left vacant by the Dean of Fresh-
men and her staff, in Payne Hall, are at the moment
being used by the English Department as faculty
ofﬁces. In other changes to Payne Hall, an elec-
tronic classroom was added over the summer.

This is just the first phase in a lengthy, enor-
mously expensive project to renovate the Colon-
nade. The improvements will take place over the
next decade. The administration hopes to set a
precedent with the Mason New Room for the rest
of the Colonnade. The style being historical, tak-
ing in all of our heritage as a university, and make
the buildings function in an advanced technologi-
cal manner.

ail {news brier;.,,t¢i=-phiowtu. C"

 

Need Technical Training?

If your classes require that you make oral presentations and if
you wish to do them professionally, or if you have been given as-
signments requiring you to develop WWW sites with class related
material, you might consider getting some free training in three very
important areas.

The Tucker Multimedia Center (TMC) is continuing its training
program for students on web and presentation software use and will
again be offering evening training sessions on 1) Power Point pre-
sentation software, 2) Adobe Photoshop and scanning techniques,
and 3) Front Page web page development basics. Topic dates and
times are listed below. It’s quick and it’s easy and free, so mark your
calendar. Yes, enrollment is limited, so register early.

Web Page Development using Front Page
Tuesday, October 14, 2003

7:30 pm

TMC, Tucker Hall 408

Power Point Presentation Software
Thursday, October 23, 2003

7:30 pm

TMC, Tucker Hall 408

Adobe Photoshop and Scanning
Thursday, October 30, 2003
7:30 pm

TMC, Tucker Hall 408

Go to the Tucker Multimedia Center web page at hnp://tmc.wlu.edu
to sign up for student training. Look for the “services” link in the
main menu. Sign up via the email link and remember to indicate which
session(s) you wish to attend.

Washington Term applications due next Tuesday

Want to spend Spring Term in our Nation’s Capital? The dead-
line for the Washington Term Program Internship applications is
Tuesday, 5 :00 p.m., October 21, 200. You may obtain your applica-
tion online or outside Professor Connelly’s office, Room 304, in the
Williams School.

For more information about the Internship Program, please at-
tend the Information Session tonight, Monday, October 13, 2003, at
7:30 p.m., in room 221 of the Williarns School.

Need Financial Aid for study abroad programs?

Ifyou plan to participate in the Spring Term Abroad Program and
will need ﬁnancial assistance, come by the Financial Aid Office AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE. You must verify with the Financial Aid Ofﬁce
that you have the required forms on file. Written notiﬁcation of fman—
cial aid awards will be sent prior to Thanksgiving break if ﬁles are
complete by November 6.

Media CEO to Speak

J. Stewart Bryan III, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
the Virginia—based Media General Inc., will be speaking Tuesday
at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. His talk, sponsored by the Department
of Journalism and Mass Communications, is entitled “The Evolu-
tion of News Delivery in the 20th and 21st Centuries.”

In his 35 years as a news executive, Bryan has built quite an
ampire. Media General is a Southeastern communications com-
pany with 25 daily newspapers, 26 network—affiliated television
stations and interactive media holdings, including the Richmond
Tlmes-Dispatch, The Tampa Tribune and WFLA, which is the top
television station in Florida. It also hold partial ownership of The
Denver Post. 100 other periodicals are also held by Media Gen-
eral.

Bryan was named as the vice president of The Tribune Co. in
Tampa, then went on to serve as its executive vice president, and
then became President and Publisher of The Richmond Times-
Dispatch and The Richmond News-Leader in 1978. Those papers
merged in 1992.

Bryan graduated from the University of Virginia and currently
serves on several media boards, including the Newspaper Asso-
ciation of America, the Foundation for American Communities and
the Virginia Historical Society.

Monday, October 13 is Christopher Columbus Day, a Federal holi-

day in the United States.

Important FactsAbout Chrktopher Columbus:

In 1492, he left Spain for his ﬁrst voyage. He landed in San
Salvador at Cap-Haitien and returned home to Palos, Spain, in 1493.

In 1493, he left Spain for his second voyage. He landed on
Marie—Galante, then went again in Cap-Haitien, St. Ann’s Bay, and
returned to Cadiz, Spain, in 1496.

In 1498, he left Spain for his third voyage. He landed in Santo
Domingo, and returned home again to Cadiz, Spain in 1500.

In 1502, he left Spain for his fourth and ﬁnal voyage. He landed
on the Bay Islands off of Central America, Portobelo, and then re-
turned home to Sartlucar, Spain, for the ﬁnal time.

He later died in 1506.

Hs_“TTD.o 3'

Yesterday was the 133rd Aiiniversery of Lee’s death.
What follows is Lee’s definition of a gentleman: ,

The forbearing use of power does not only form a touchstone, but
the manner in which an individual enjoys certain advantages over others
is a test of a true gentleman.

The power which the strong have over the weak, the employer over
the employed, the educated over the unlettered, the experienced over the
conﬁding, even the clever over the silly—the forbearing or inoffensive
use of all this power or authority, or a total abstinence from it when the
case admits it, will show the gentleman in a plain light

The gentleman does not needlessly and urmecessarily remind an
offender of a wrong he may have committal against him. He cannot only
forgive, he can forget; and he strives for that nobleness of self and
mildness of character which impart sufﬁcient strength to let the past be
but the past. A true man of honor feels humbled himself when he cannot
help humbling others.

RARY. GOV

 

Faculty calendar vote over,
decision left to Board of Trustees

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee’s
faculty voted October 8-10
and October 10-12 on the
three calendar proposals.
The options were for retain-
ing the current 12-12-6 cal-
endar, moving to a 13-13-4
calendar or a 14-14 system
Vote one narrowed the op-
tions to two, while the sec-

ond vote determined which
option the faculty preferred.

After the first vote, the
13—13—4 “compromise” cal-
endar was eliminated. The
second round of voting,
which began on October 10
and ended Sunday night
will determine whether the
faculty chooses the 12-12-6
or 14-14 calendar.

Votes are being tallied by
the University Registrar to-
day and will be reported to
University Officials and the
Washington and Lee commu-
nity shortly thereafter. The
ultimate decision will be
made by the Board of Trust-
ees, which will discuss the
issue in late October.

The Board of Trustees

will be meeting October 23
through the 25, at which point
they will discuss the calendar
decision, taking into account
the opinion of the faculty.

The Board is responsible
for determining Washington
and Lee’s budget and will
have to look at the cost im-
plications of any calendar
changes.

to ﬂooding

Chi Psi’s Late Night shut down due

PHOTO courmzsy MICHAEL LEE
Flooding! There was ﬂoodingin Chi Psi’s house, The Lodge, this Homecoming weekend. The brothers

had to evacuate their Late Night D} party because the ﬂooding made it a safety hazard.

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Chi Psi’s notorious Late
Night party was shut down by
the brothers this Homecoming
Saturday due to ﬂooding.

“It was a safety issue, we
didn’t want anyone slipping,”
said Chi Psi President Brooks
Batcheller.

The ﬂooding was in the
basement of Chi Psi’s house,
where a DJ party was taking place
as part of the fraternity’s Home-
coming festivities..

The party was already wind-
ing down when one of the toilets
upstairs ﬂooded, causing pipes
to leak. Between 3 and 3:30 a.m.
it became clear that there would
be a safety issue, so the base-
ment was evacuated. The water
had to be shut off.

Sophomore brothers had to
clean up the ﬂooding mess and a
plumber will have to be called to
fix the pipes.

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

S“l‘ii15“il‘3‘éDiToRiAL

 

Plan sober ride

Kevin White resigned from the Ex-
ecutive Committee. The Ring-tum Phi
lauds his decision. His choice to step
down from the EC was appropriate in
light of his recent arrest for driving un-
der the inﬂuence of alcohol. His experi-
ence should open the eyes of Washing-
ton and Lee students to the risks of drunk
driving and the need to plan for a safe
ride home.

We believe that there is never an
excuse to get behind the wheel of a car
while drunk. When you drink and drive
you do not just put your own life on the
line, but also the lives of everyone on the
street. Last year, 17,000 people died as
a result of drunken drivers. Anyone who
has the competency to be a Washington
and Lee student also has the intelligence
to plan for a safe ride home. Every stu-
dent has got to plan a way back. Count-
ing on staying “pretty sober” is not a rea-
sonable excuse.

Washington and Lee University of-
fers a sober ride system that has its ﬂaws,
but its use is far better than risking lives.
Now is not the time for complaining.
Recent events should inspire students to
make Traveller better. It should encour-
age us all to see the need to work on the
program.

Don’t get us wrong, we enjoy
embibing just as much as the next Wash-
ington and Lee General. It’s fun and
exciting, wild and fun, cool and tough
and quite simply, a blast. Drinking and
college life have gone hand-in-hand as
long as there have been students looking
for something to do. However, the term
“drinking” must be preceded by “re-
sponsible.” Be careful and plan a so-
ber ride.

We support Mr. White’s decision to
uphold the integrity of the Executive
Committee by resigning. The commit-
tee is more than the people‘who serve
it. It represents the most cherished and
hallowed traditions of our University.
Thank you Mr. White. You did the right
thing.

 

“Welcometothe party.”

~'Ihe ReverendAl Sharpton, in response
to Wesley Claik’s implication that
Democrats shouldn’t attack other
Democratsinatough2004Presidential
election.

(.'.‘EHl':<'(:TC?€ 3.>:i-  il.<w:>iz2.n*:

G-TUM PHI

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Sports Editor Allison Perry
Asst. Sports Editor John Hyland
Production Assistants Hilary Henry
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Copy Editor Anne Iadarola

Editorial Director Katie Howell

  

Business Manager Pan] seifert
Circulation Director Hem-y G1-imbau
Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to plii@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current oourt deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-turn Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Wrginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wluedu

TH:E RlN(.§-’_§TllE?»::i_ Pat

CAIEYANDERSON
OPiNioissEDIioR

' mm m

PINIONS

No change needed

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH, ‘05

According to the many signs ﬂoating around campus lately, Wash-
ington and Lee is a hotbed of anti-homosexual discrimination. My favorite,
“W&L is number 2” is at once ambiguous and intriguing. Placing it in
context of the other signs (including “homophobia is a curable disease”
and “come out, come out wherever you are”) leads me to believe it refers to
W&L’s number two ranking in this year’s Princeton Review for “alterna-
tive lifestyles not an altemative.” That’s a pretty heady reputation, and
according to the message implied by the posters, it is a well-deserved
ranking and that needs to be changed. But is this ranking truly deserved
(and I will argue no), and if it’s not, then do we really need to change much?

We can all agree that W&L students are prone to inﬂated perceptions,
whether about how much we drink, how much we study, how Southern the
culture here is, how male-dominated this campus is, and so on. Perhaps,
then, we can also agree that the stereotype of W&L as ultra-conservative,
intolerant of “deviant” lifestyles, and generally “un-215‘ century” is also a
distorted one that must be corrected. The favorite refrain of liberal activ-
ists on campus is usually that they love this school but they have serious
issues with things like our lack of “diversity,” our “homophobia,” and our
tendency to be judgmental. In other words, they say, this school is won-
derful except that it is so conservative and if only we could fix a few things,
then it would be perfect. But is W&L so conservative? What exactly do
you mean by “conservative” anyway?

If we are politically conservative because we tend to vote for (or at
least profess support for) Republicans, then so be it. If we are conserva-
tive because we love our school’s traditions, then that’s great. But to
proclaim us socially conservative is bizarre. A true social conservative
would frown upon our drinking, our sexual activities, our drug-taking, our
occasionally foul language, and the like. We are not exactly social liberals,
particularly when it comes to expressing what we believe as opposed to
what we actually do, but we are more moderate than anything else. And
following this train of thought, I would not call this school “homophobic”
as a rule.

First off, let’s define “homophobia.” The American Heritage dictio-
nary says it is “fear of or contempt for lesbians and gay men.” I don’t think
that people here have a “fear” of homosexuals; some might dislike the act
of homosexuality, some might mock it because they perceive it as funny,
but this is not fear. Very few people, in my judgment, are scared of homo-
sexuals. “Contempt” is also largely inapplicable. There are no doubt some
people at this school who do not want homosexuals to join their fraterni-
ties or sororities, or would rather not have a homosexual roommate, but
“contempt” implies scathing hatred, an adjective I would certainly not
ascribe to any W&L student’s emotions. Even on the Spring Term issue,
where students’ passions have ﬂared up as they haven’t since coeduca-
tion, the debate has been impressively civil. .

This word, “civil,” brings us to the heart of the matter. W&L prides
itself on its civil and genteel atmosphere. This must extend to all members
of campus. Therefore, racism is unacceptable, as are sexism, ethnocen-
trism, “fraternity—ism,” and any other negativism you’d like to include.
Civil behavior, which gentlemen and gentlewomen must embody, requires
that we shun these negative traits. The posters around campus imply a
need to take action; they are a call to repeal this school ’s alleged anti-
homosexual atmosphere. But I think they overestimate this school’s “con-
servatism” and in doing so, inﬂate perceptions and distort reality. If we
reaffirm our commitment to civil behavior, then this whole debate need not
be lengthy. And if homosexuals on campus wish to test the civility of this
campus, I would encourage them to do so. They should “come out” as and
when they desire. They should feel free to take members of the same sex to
date functions. I predict that they will be pleasantly surprised by the lack
of negative reactions from the W&L community as a whole. And at the end
of the day, let us not be slaves to the Princeton Review rankings. After all,
they’re based largely on inﬂated perceptions and are scientiﬁcally inaccu-
rate. At the end of the day, Washington and Lee, while not perfect, is a
helluva lot more tolerant than any so-called “liberal” school where people
tolerate your views as long as they’re to the left-of-center.

Rebuttal from Anderson

Mr. Naeernu]]ah’s argument is the same as mine, but I should point out that
thepostersaid“IsW&LREALLY#2?” Ithinkthattheposters weiemeantto say
thatW&Lreallywasn’t, buttlmtwe shouldooriectthatappearence, sohis state-
mentthattheposters n1eantthat“itis awell-deseivedrankingandthatneedstobe
clnnged” is erroneous. He says that “any..negativisn'L..is unacceptable,” and he
also says that there are “people at this school who do not want homosexuals to
join their fraternities or soroities,” and so on. The fact is that this IS negativism
Andwhilelmraninakesthepointthatahomosexualwhobringsasame-sexdateto
apartyorsome suchwillnotenoounteropenhostility,Istillmaintainthefactthat
the person would deﬁnitely not enjoy the same esteem in the eyes of their fellow
studentsasaheterosexualwhodidthe same. It’sjustafactoflifehereatW&L. I
certainly don’t think that W&L is blatantly homophobic (the distinction between
“fear” and “dislike” is hardly relevant in this case), I just think that it tends to be
somewhat exclusionary of certain types of people, homosexuals included

So while I agree that the posters overexaggerate the problem to a signiﬁcat
degree, andwhileIagreethatthePiincetonReviewprobablyhasusupalittletoo
high on their list, I think we should make every effort to change that We may not
be as intolerant as the anonymous signs or the wonderful folks at the Princeton
Review maymakeus outtobe,butinthe2lstCentury, appearenceisreality. Our
bestrecomseistomakedanmsmethatpeopleknowthatweAREaccepting.

  

“I’d come up with something better,
but l’ve been drunk since Wed.”
-B. Love ‘05

“Football team won the game”
-Justin Cole ‘07

“The 75-year alums”
-Brooke Sanden ‘06

PAGE 3

  

W&L tolerance

Room for Improvement
BY CALEYANDERSON, ‘06

Washington and Lee University has many strengths, but diver-
sity and tolerance of alternative lifestyles are not among them. Ac-
cording to the Princeton Review, our three highest special category
rankings are “Students Most Nostalgic for Ronald Reagan (#1),”
“Major Frat/Srat Scene (#2),” and “Alternative Lifestyles Not An
Alternative (#2)” Clearly, we’re no UC Berkeley (argue amongst
yourselves whether that’s a good thing or not). In recent days,
someone has been posting about W&L’s campus anti-homophobia
posters, which say things to the effect of “It happens to the best of
families,” “One in ten is,” or, my personal least favorite “Homopho—
bia is a curable disease.”

Now, don’t get me wrong, I agree that these posters are out of
line. First of all, they were posted anonymously. Anonymous
postings of statements charged with political significance never
sit well with me. If you feel so strongly about your opinion, why
not have the courage to come right out and say it to the student
body? Secondly, these posters come on a little too strong, the
“Homophobia is a curable disease” poster in evidence.

But, nevertheless, the posters raise a valid point- W&L is not
notable for being a highly tolerant school, of homosexuals, minori-
ties, or anyone else who’s not middle/upper class, southern white,
and quite generally in the mainstream here. This is not to say that
there aren’t individual students who aren’t accepting of differences,
I know there are many.

The whole problem here is that the campus’ general feeling is
that it’s not going to be dragged into the 21st Century without a
fight. “It’s a school for rich white southemers,” said one alumni
who commented on the Princeton Review’s site, “Only a little less
than 20 years ago, it was only a school for rich white southern
boys.”

The problem, as I assert, is not that W&L refuses to take in
homosexuals, ethnic minorities, etc. (as there are many of these
fine folks at our great school), it’s that the primary student body
generally don’t accept these people as “fitting in” to the W&L
scene.

As one Texan student on the Princeton Review commented:
“Those who fit in agree that never before have we met friendlier
people. Those who don’t fit in either transfer out or endure a long
four years.” This is not the great University that I know Washing-
ton and Lee is.

I’m generally opposed to the whole process that’s referred to
as “Swarthmorification,” (i.e., standardizing our calendar, adapting
Swarthmore/Amherst type curriculum and teaching policies, etc.),
but I do think that those 11 schools above us in U.S. News’ rankings
have something we don’t, and that’s willingness to include anyone
as a complete, non—excluded member of the student body, and as a
member of the “in-crowd.” Here, in my opinion, we still apply ex-
clusionary tactics based on things other than whether or not the
person’s a cool guy/girl, which should be the only real criteria.

Again, does W&L have a serious problem that needs immedi-
ate attention? No.

Are the posters right? No.

Is the Princeton Review accurate in their ranking? No.

Should we make some attempt to convince these people that
we’re a much more tolerant place than they make us out to be? Yes.

Otherwise, we run a definite risk of alienating outstanding po-
tential students, faculty, and staff.

So, even though the problem is an overexaggerated one, it’s
still there lurking between W&L’s white columns. Perhaps the most
telling of all these posters is the one that says “Is W&L REALLY
#2?” I think that we’re not really #2 and that Princeton has got it
wrong, but I also think we should start going out of our way to
prove it.

Rebuttal from Naeemullah

Ca]eyAnders<mwntes,‘1hewholeproblanhaeisﬂiatdecampus’general
feelingisthatit’snotgoingtobedraggedintothe21"cermnywiﬂaoirtaﬁght,”implying
ﬂiatW&Esammt‘backwmd§’smteofaﬁansistmibly20”oamny.Bmwhatexacdy
is21“centin'y,andwhymiisttheprogressionofﬁmeomrelatetosonieliberalnotionof
change?W&Lisfarﬁombeinghomophobecenttal. Ourtraditionofcivilityultimately
nanscaidswlntevernegaﬁveimidernstakeplaoe;moﬂ1erwords,wlnleW&Lis
hartﬂypeifect,itisoverwhelminglyasupp<xﬁve,mlcraminsﬁu1ﬁon.

Mostimpor1anﬂywhymiistwesubmhmﬂieranldngsofﬂ1ePdncetonReview?
Andersmoammlybasesﬂemajmityoflnsmgmnanbasedonmehighlyselecﬁve
oommentsﬂePnnoetmReviewuses.ThePdncaonReviewisabhmmlyliberaﬂy-
biasedpub1icaﬁon,andhlnsmpioblemwiﬂipmuaymgW&Lasahabedofreac-
ﬁorimypoﬁucs.Wlnleweslxnﬂdbevery;xm1dofmnhighmnkingsinthingshke
qualityofpiofessors,etc.,wenmsttaketlx:se,likethenegativeianl<ings,withaheavy
dose of skepticism. Simply because we’ve been ranked as #2 in the “Altermtive
lifestylesNmAnAltmmﬁve”camgmydoesnotnmnweshuﬂdnmabmnchmiging
thewayweare.WeshouldbepnoudofWashingtoriandLeeforwliatitis.Ceitainly,we
slniﬂdomistanﬂysuivemnmkemnsehesbatenbinncxatﬁeexperiseofwlmtwe
alieadyhavewemiistreaﬂimiourinotto,“Notunrnindfulofthefutnre,”andkeepin
nnnddntwhibprogressisirnpmtantnnmstnacomeatﬂeexpaiseofwlmtwe
alreadyhavethatispositive.

“Drunken interaction between a prof

“Erinlohnson”
-Adrienne Fleurke ‘O5 ,

and a student at the wine-tasting
-Anonymous Senior

 

 

    

PAGE 4

 

Oi3iN1ONs

:\

r \-

“L.

Skateboarding is not a crime

What does freedom mean nowadays? What with the Patriot
act negating the bill of rights, and the homeland security act
eliminating any sense of personal privacy, it is hard to say really
what freedom means. I must admit that we do enjoy many free-
doms in the country, however, it has come to my immediate at-
tention that here in the great state of Virginia, certain physical
acts are considered illegal. No, I am not referring to the utter
ludicrous laws that incriminate those whose sexual preferences
differ from the norm. I am referring to the law that criminalizes
the act of stepping onto a board supported by four wheels, and
pushing off the ground as to achieve a forward motion.

As I have been so rudely informed, this form of transporta-
tion is outlawed in every way, shape, and form. The act, termed
“Skateboarding” is to be persecuted at every given opportunity.
“What is the crime?” One may ask, “that these
peaceful board riding recreationists have com-
mitted?” The answer one gets is always the
same. The local government does not want
someone riding a skateboard to be hit by a
car. Literally, this is what it all boils down too.
Thanks Mr. Overlords! If you did not tell me what I can and
cannot do with my own free will, why, I would probably be drink-
ing Clorox Bleach with Color-Safe Alternative right now!

Granted, Skateboarding has acquired a bad reputation from
those uncouth souls who decide to destroy our national land-
marks, such as Lee Chapel for example, with their grind and ﬂip
tricks. However, I refer not to the persecution against trick
boards, which I support as well, but rather to the little known
variation of the Skateboard known as the Longboard. The
Longboard is a delightful vehicle, simple in design, consisting
of an elongated Skateboard with out the telltale upward curves
at either end, meaning it cannot be jumped off of the ground. It
was created entirely for those who enjoy cruising down the open
road with the wind in their hair and the asphalt ﬂying under their
feet.

Now, the question is again, what sort of felonious affront
are these transportation enthusiasts inflicting upon the masses
of this great state of Virginia?

I reiterate, to persecute those who ride Longboards, which

A STUDENT STATEMENT
IAN DICKINSON ‘O6

 
 

4 . physically cannot be jumped, grinded or damaging to the sur-

rounding environment, is simple oppression. We are peaceful
people. We only desire to ride from point A, to point B with a
minimal amount of exhaust, monetary expenditures, and friction.
How we infringe upon the rights of others is beyond me. Last
time I checked, rules were created so that we do not encroach
upon the rights of others. This is not even a victimless crime.
This is not a crime at all. Longboarding does not release toxic
chemicals into the air, nor does it even have the capacity to
injure those around it. If one rides a Longboard, one assumes
that there is a risk involved, as with every other physical activ-
ity known to humankind. All of this leads to another question. If
this sort of simple, environmentally conscious form of transpor-
tation is outside of the law, then why are not bikes considered

contraband? How are they, in almost any way, different from
skateboards? In fact, they have a greater propensity to de-
stroy the surrounding environment, as many naturalists
have been complaining as of late, about the increasing
amount of damage mountain biking has been inflicting upon
nature. Now I do not propose that bikes should be perse-
cuted like skateboards. In fact I am a cycling enthusiast
myself. However, I use bicycling as an example to illustrate
the pure idiocy of these laws.

What is next to be considered illegal in this oppres-
sion against physical activity? Rollerblades? Roller-skates?

Too late. The same law that limits Skateboarding and
Longboarding also restricts the rest of our skating family.
If one were to continue with the deranged logic that made
these forms of recreation illegal, then one
could easily assume all vehicular transport
will be outlawed in the near future. In fact, it
would not be beyond reasoning that the gov-
ernment will soon be issuing specialized
safety cocoons to each and every citizen to
this great state of Virginia, so that no harm may come to
anyone anymore. Everyone will live safely inside their co-
coons, drinking and eating through a straw, never having
to concern our dictators, excuse me, authorities with our
well being. Besides, we the unwashed masses are of too low
an intelligence to think clearly for ourselves, am I not cor-
rect?

The worst cut comes from those who should be fighting

for our freedom. This bastion of intellectual thought and sup-
posed freedom of physical expression, Washington and Lee,
has deemed all activities involving the word “Skate” an ille-
gal activity as well, banning it in all forms. There is no argu-
ment with them on this matter. They seem hell bent, like the
great state of Virginia, on protecting us from ourselves.
Granted, they have insurance liability concerns to worry about
because they are a private institution, but then why have
football? Or Lacrosse, or any of the many sports offered here?
Students could get hurt, and that is a liability. In fact, we as
students, just existing, are a liability. It feels like the Univer-
sity is trying to tell us something.
This reporter has almost resigned himself to the hopeless-
ness of these sad states of affairs. While on the university
level one may have a chance, no matter how slim, of changing
the incredibly oppressive conservative view of things. But to
change a state law is something that this reporter has neither
the time nor the energy to accomplish. Not everything is nega-
tive though. I have been informed a Skatepark, near the local
middle school has been built and is helping to ease some of
the pressure that us Skateboarders have to endure. However,
this does nothing to help those of us who want to enjoy the
many benefits of Longboarding. Nor is any hero poised on
the horizon, ready to ride into the fray and save us.

It’s a dark road ahead, my friends. A dark road indeed.

PHOTO COURTESY OF .rkateb0ardzr1g.rorr1

OUTLAW NOSEGRIND. Skateboarding at W&L and in most of Virginia is prohibited, infringing on our basic freedoms.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13,2003

oward of the Week

Arr irregular feature of the .R:'2rg-mm Phi

Karl Rove

 

As a Justice Department inquiry continues its work, it
looks more and more as though Mr. Rove was the individual
behind the leak of a CIA operative’s identity and location in
the field. It occured, many believe, because Joe Wilson, the
husband of the named CIA agent, openly criticized the White
House for its inclusion of Iraqi uranium ties to Africa when
Mr. Wilson had said that he had personally disproved such
claims. The White House’s retaliation, it’s starting to seem,
was to compromise his wife’s security in the field, a federal
crime that carries a sentence of 10 years in prison. We’ll soon
see if Mr. Rove can in fact own up to putting a brave CIA
agent’s life at serious risk just to take a jab back at a political
opponent. Don’t bet on it, though. When outraged legal experts
called for an independent investigator to look into the matter, Mr.
Rove whined until the President agreed to allow the Justice Depart-
ment (a part of the executive branch, along with Mr. Rove’s position)
to do the investigation instead, which may produce a biased result.

The lesson learned, future leaders of America? If you don’t like
what someone says about you, expose critical information about
their spouse in the hopes that enemy foreign governments will kill
him/her and leave your would-be critic bereaved and depressed. It
works for Karl Rove and it can work for you too!

Diversity is
strength at W&L

Reoently,Iengagedinavery interesting oonversa1ionwithaFreshman,
whosename shal1remainanonymous,andwetaIkedaboutW&Larrdher
transition. And we touched on a very ‘sensitive and prevalent issue that

plagues W&L students: diversity. That topic always comes up at W&L.

There’s no way of getting around it Once you arrive at W&L, you are
mmrdmedwimdiversityemrmﬁmmrdawmnagedmbeawqadngmrdmm
passionate towards people of different backgrounds. I am a dorm ootmselor.
I went through orientation with my residents so I know.

I came to several conclusions about the situation about the issue. As
good as the theory appears on paper, diversity education has created
some unforeseen externalities that we need to address and analyze. The
diversity discussion has put people from the majority and the minority
sides on their highest guard.
Members of the majority are
afraid to say cer- tain things orbe-
have in certain ways because
they fear these words and ac-
tions might offend a member of the
minority group. However, I have to say that their fears are not com-
pletely unfounded. Here I have seen minorities, including myself, peak
in sensitivity levels to “ignorant” comments. Immediately, the member
of the majority walks away for the rest of their lives with their tails tucked
between their legs, forever forbidden to express anything to a person of
the minority group for fear it might offend someone.

Arrdherein lies theproblem Neithersidehastriedtodiscussthe“oﬂ°err-
sive” material. The minority member doesn’t ask why but merely becomes
angry while the majority rrrernber doesn’t offer an explanation or becomes
immediatelydefensive. Thereisadenialonboth sides. Asaresultbothsides
come away fromthe interaction angry and with anew negative stereotype of
the other side.

Living is learning and learning is living. You live by learning from your
mistakesandthemorelessonsyoulearrr,themor"eyouliveasperson. The
biggest component of our lives is our interaction and relationships with people.
Andthesarnerulesthatwewouldabidebyinourfriendships shouldalsobe
present in our day-to-day interactions with people. So I am listing sonre
guidelines to have to better interactions with people here and everywhere.

Assumealitﬂebutneverassurrrethatyourassurrrptionistruth. Itismere
speculation.

Lower your sensitivity antennas. If someone’s expressive manner of-
fends you, letthemthey didandfrndoutifthey were awarethatthis offended
you.

Try to give people the beneﬁt ofthe doubt. Understand that we are all
fromdifferentplacm withdiﬁerentpaststhatmoldus intothepeopleweare
not with the views that we have.

Andlastly, beopen—minded Lifeisabearrtifulthingandwhatmakes
humanlifesoextraordinaryistheabilityforittobemriched Theworldisatan
arm’sreach Soopenyourarms,ratherthancrossingthenr

TRAIN OF THOUGHT
TRAN KIM ‘05

 
 

 
 
   

  

S‘l‘$1'RAVEl..COM

khamar-his #I3lvded!wt0p-amine

Have a story idea? Email at phi @wlu. edu or call extension 4060

  
   
  

Sell ‘hi 5. Earn Cash, Go Free!
Row mug t3n-(amps:-.s Raps

(all for group discounts

     
   

 .§£kWC£8
I-800«§48~¢859 2' wwmhwchnm

9-333'

 
   

 

HOUSE FOR RENT
in Rockbridge Baths on Maury River
2 bedroom, 2 bath
, central air, ﬁreplace

$850 + security deposit and references
call evenings 703-503-8239

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! 1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

I

 

  

ALUSONPERRY
SPOKISEDIIOR

Mm m
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

are RlE\‘=<.%«’.i."E,iit£ Pei

PORTS

PAGE 5

Football comes home, wins in overtime

BY CAMERON GARNER
SPORTS WRITER

Despite going into halftime with a 20-7 deﬁcit,
the Generals fought back and came away with their

p second win of the season against a huge Catholic

team.

The game looked a bit out of hand as Catholic went
up 27-7 in the third quarter, but sophomore quarterback
Greg Tweardy led the Generals down the ﬁeld and hooked
up with Taylor “Carri, you look terrible” Callaham.

Cardinal quarterback Pat Truxillo was very angry,
because every time he threw it to one of his teammates,
one of the Generals ended up catching it instead.

Generals like senior strong safety Lee “Mr.
Walker” Walker and freshman cornerback Rob
Rain, who returned the interception to the
Catholic 6-yard line, where his good buddy and
sophomore running back Michael Lackett ran
the ball into the end zone putting the Generals
up 28-27.

The Cardinals, angry because the Generals
had scored so many points in a row, tried to come
out and score again, but the General’s defense,
led by Andrew “foot” Bahl’s sack, forced the Car-
dinals to go four-and-out on their own 11-yard
line.

From the Cardinal 1 1-yard line, freshman kicker
Ben Long wanted to get in on the action, so the Gen-

  

CORBIN BmcKFoRD/ Tbe Ring-tum Pbi
SAVE. A Washington and Lee goalkeeper keeps a

erals put him in to kick the 28-yard ﬁeld goal, and it
was good.

From there, the Generals defense held
thanks to strong team defense and the atten-
tive line work by Warren “wait, why are you
putting me in there?” Hunter. The Cardinals
couldn’t do anything else, and watched the
clock run out.

I think that a victory of such magnitude re-
quires an editorial comment or two. The
General’s play on Saturday is reminiscent of
another such colossal come from behind vic-
tory.

The Colts over Bucs last Monday night?
No, I’m talking about the Giants over the Cow-
boys, but by Giants, I mean the little Giants.
No doubt many of you remember this good
versus evil struggle that featured an under-
dog squad playing a much larger Cowboys
team. -

This movie obviously inspired the Gener-
als team to win, teaching them that even
though the opponents may be bigger and your
best player isn’t playing because he’s
cheerleading to try to get the hot, stud quar-
terback (wait, is this queer eye?), if you dig
deep, fight hard, and possibly have a nerd to
draw up plays with his computer, you can over-
come any obstacle.

g Pi
VICTORY. Sophomore running back Michael Lackett scored the winning touchdown in overtime on Saturday.

BY Jorm HYI.AND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer
team lost its first game of the season Saturday
to conference rival Roanoke. The Generals had
started the season on an eight game unbeaten
streak, coming within two games of the record
breaking 2001 squad which started its season
on a ten game unbeaten streak.

Before Saturday’s loss, the Generals were
able to extend their streak on Wednesday when
they faced off against ODAC foe Lynchburg
on the road.

The Hornets entered the game with a record
of 4-7 , 1-3 ODAC. Despite theirpoorrecord, they

' contested the Generals very tightly.

Washington and Lee sophomore goal-
keeper Michael Stanton made six big saves in
the first half to preserve a scoreless tie entering
halftime. The Generals finally broke the tie late
in the second half at 79: 12 when junior defender
Peter Miller found sophomore midﬁelder Keith
Sullivan for a header.

Washington and Lee held on to the win
despite being out shot 12-9. The Generals de-
fense improved in the second half, however, as

enerals’ winning 3 reak ended this wee

make one save.

Roanoke came to Lexington with a record
of 8-2-1, 4-1 ODAC record and was the pre-
season favorite to repeat as conference champs
this year.

The Maroons opened the scoring just 13
minutes into the game but freshman midﬁelder
Rhett McCraw evened the score for the Gener-
als 15 minutes later.

At the end of the first half, however,
Roanoke forward Elliott Stallings intercepted a
failed Washington and Lee clear and buried shot
to break the tie and give the Maroons a 2-1
advantage.

It was all the scoring that Roanoke would
need. Despite a hotly contested game that saw
four player ejections, the second half stayed
scoreless.

In the loss, Stanton and Carlson combined
to make three saves, but the Generals were out
shot 13-9.

The loss drops Washington and Lee’s
record to 6-1-2 overall and 2-1-2 in the ODAC.
The victory puts the Maroons in first place in
the ODAC.

The Generals hope to get back to their win-

ning ways on Tuesday in a non-conference SNEAKY. Sophomore midﬁelder Keith Sullivan ﬁghts an

Roanoke Play“ from Scoring in this Wt‘-€155 gamﬁ junior goalkeeper Chris Carlson only had to match-up against cross-town-rival VMI. opponent for the ball in this week’s game against Roanoke.

‘ A sweet victory kept the Generals women’s soccer undefeated

Maggie Megear, and junior Ginny Helms.

    

‘ BY S BLOOM Senior Fontain Marcoux, freshman Cara Burton,
SPORTS WRITER Cohn, Esworthy, and S. Helms also added an assist.
“Our team works well together and everyone is al-
A victory over Sweet Briar (10-0) was especially ways enthusiastic about playing.” said Wiltshire of her

\4 sugar-coated for the Washington and Lee women’s team. “In practices, everyone is always pushing each
soccer team. The team not only protected its unde- other and I thinkthat our intensity in games reﬂects
feated season, but was able to celebrate Coach Neil how hard we work in practices.”

Cunningham’s 100th career victory. The team, ranked 14th nationally by the National
“It was a well-deserved victory for coach.” said Soccer Coaches Association of America, has high aspi-
, “ freshman Sarah Helms. “Coach doesn’t even keep rations for the season and is well on it’s way to attain-
track of that kind of stuff so it was such a cool sur- ing them. The team posted the highest ranking for
prise.” women’s soccer in Washington and Lee history earlier
The Generals played a stellar game, not allowing in the season at 13th place.

‘ Sweet Briar any opportunity to score. Meanwhile, The team also holds the second place position in
Washington and Lee kept the host team on its toes, the NCAA South Region. Another highlight includes
with 32 attempts and 10 goals. being only one win away from tying the record number

Freshman Anne Wiltshire again led the team with of consecutive wins. This record was established by
two goals and an assist. Washington and Lee’s 1997 team.

‘ CORBIN g mP}Ji Other goal earners included: Junior Maggie Hope The Generals will return to ODAC play will con-
RUNNn~1<;i=oin'Hi~:wn~i. Freshmen Rebecca Cohn dribbles the ball downﬁeld at Saturday (2), sophomore Conner Esworthy, S. Helms, junior tinue on Wednesday , October 16, against Virginia
afternoon’s game against Sweet Briar. Cohn scored a goal Saturday. Kelly Zagol, freshman Rebecca Cohn, freshman Wesleyan.

A

u Tuesday, October 14 Wednesday, October 15 Thursday, October 16 Friday, October 17 Saturday, October 18 Sunday, October 19
M Soccer vs. VMI--4:00 W Soccer vs. VA VB at C. Newport--5:30 W Tennis at Rolex FB atHwnpden-Sydney- F. Hockey vs. Sewanee--
E Hockey vs. EMU--7:00 Wesleyan--4:00 W Tennis at Rolex Nationals 1:00 1 :00

<. VB vs. VA Wesleyan-- Nationals WSocceratEMU--1:00 W Tennis at Rolex

6:30 E Hockey vs. Catholic--2:00 Nationals

M Soccer at VA Wesleyan--

1 2:00
VB at Marymount Toum.
C. Country atDeSaIes Inv.—
10:30

( W Tennis at Rolex Nationals

 

  

PAGE 6

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee volleyball team im-
proved its record to 19-2 overall and 7-0 in the ODAC
this week. The Generals defeated Bridgewater 3-1
on Wednesday.

Washington and Lee was also successful in
the Savannah Art and Design Invitational this
weekend. The team won the tournament with vic-
tories over Roanoke, Peace College, Guilford,
Southern Virginia, and Savannah Art and Design
(SCAD).

Against Bridgewater, the Generals won after
sets of 30-26, 20-30, 31-29, 30-26. Junior outside
hitter Emily Wolﬁng led the way with 15 kills and 18
digs. Sophomore Taylor Gibson totaled ten kills
and four blocks.

Also contributing were freshman outside hitter
AshleyHurtwithninekillsandninedigsandsopho-
moresLauraByme andChristineGladyszwithnineki1ls
and eleven digs, and 51 assists and 19 digs, respectively.

Riding team places 4 out of
5 at ODAC Championships

Open Fences. Caitlin Lane won both the show’s Highest Point Rider Award
Open Fences and Open Flats and won

BY KATHERINE SHELL
sponrs WRITER

Last weekend, the Equestrian team
placed six out of nine teams at Radford.
The Generals ﬁnished only one point
behind Bridgewater and UVA, who were
tied for fourth.

All three of Washington and Lee’s
riders placed in the top three in their
classes. Katie Goodrich ’06 placed sec-
ond and Jean-Rose Clawater ‘07 placed
third.

Caitlin Lane ’06 won both her Open
Flat and Open Fences classes, which
won her the show’s Highest Point rider
Award.

On Friday, the Equestrian team trav-
eled to the ODAC Championships, where
two riders, Katie Goodrich ’06 and Caitlin
Lane ‘O6, rode in both Open Flat and
Open Fence classes.

Katie Goodrich placed second in



Volleyball wins SCAD Invitational 

On Friday and Saturday, the team com-
peted in the SCAD Invitational, winning all
five games. The Generals defeated Roanoke
30-24, 30-24, 30-24 and Peace 30-7, 30-21, 30-
20 on Friday.

Against Roanoke, Wolfing notched 16
kills and 17 digs. Sophomore middle blocker
Susan Gaillard had 12 kills and two blocks.
Gibson totaled eight kills and five blocks,
while Gladysz contributed 48 assists and 12
digs.

In the match against Peace, freshman
middle blocker Ashley Hurt led with eleven
kills and seven digs. Junior outside hitter
Michelle Chastain helped the team with ten
kills and nine digs. Gladysz totaled 15 assists
and five digs.

On Saturday, Washington and Lee de-
feated Guilford 30-13, 30-21, 30-17. Hurt led
the way with eleven kills. Gaillard had ten kills
and four blocks. Wolfing and Gladysz totaled

 

HORSE. Rider Caitlin Lane converses with Washington and Lee coach Carolyn
Williams. Lane won both the Open Fenc and Open Flat classes at ODAC’s.

for the second show in a row.

nine kills and ten digs, and 41 assists, respec-
tively.

The Generals came out on top against
Southern Virginia with a 30-23, 30-20, 30-20 vic-
tory. Hurt led the team with 14 kills and 14
digs. Gaillard notched 15 kills, while Wolfing
had ten kills and 17 digs. Gladysz and junior
Jennifer Lux made 42 assists and 13 digs, re-
spectively.

The team met up with SCAD for the final
match of the day, defeating the opponent 30-23,
30-19, 30-21. Wolﬁng led Generals with 12 kills
and 15 digs. Gaillard totaled 13 kills and ﬁve
blocks. Hurt added eleven kills and 12 digs.
Gladysz also contributed with 41 assists, ten digs,
and four blocks.

Wolfing, Gladysz, and Hurt were honored
by being named to the all-tournament team.

Washington and Lee will compete against
Virginia Wesleyan at home this Wednesday at
5:30 p.m. for a conference match-up.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

KILL. junior Emily Wolfing led the Generals this
week. She totaled 62 kills and 77 digs overall.

Women’s tennis comes
out strong in Fall Festival

Sophomore Ingrid Easton won her
match in the number four spot over

 

The Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team hosted Mary
Washington, Washington College,
Liberty, and Bridgewater in the
Washington and Lee Fall Festival
on Saturday and Sunday this week-
end.

The Generals sent eight
singles players and eight doubles
pairs into the final round on Sun-
day.

The team produced four
singles champions in addition to
two teams of doubles champions
on Sunday.

In the number two singles spot,
senior Liz Law defeated freshman
Amanda Haines 6-3, 6-3.

Junior Kristin Crawford had a
6-4, 6-0 victory over senior Emily
Taylor in the number five slot.

Katie Zelenak of Mary Washington 6-
4, 6-3.

Sophomore Stephanie Hannon
also had a victory in the number six
spot with a 6-2, 6-3 win over freshman
Abigail Olson.

In doubles action, freshman
Natalie Day and junior Susan
McCracken had a 8-2 victory in the
number two spot over Easton and jun-
ior Meredith Bailey.

Sophomores Laura Neller and
Lauren Peters defeated Crawford
and Hannon 8-4 in the number three
spot.

The Generals travel to Corpus
Christi, Texas next Thursday to com-
pete in the ITA National Tournament.
The tournament is scheduled to last
all day for Thursday, Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday.

Generals drop two at home against Bridgewater and Juanita

BY JOHN HYLANI)
ASSISTANT sponrs EDITOR

the net. For the game, they out
shot the Eagles 12-5 and held a
15-3 advantage on penalty cor-

Lee sophomore goaltender Elise
Gelinas made two saves.
The Generals turned

trolled the second half, with an
advantage in shots, 8-3, and on
penalty corners, 7-4. But the

Washington and Lee’s record
to 4-6 overall, and 3-2 in the
ODAC. The Generals return

to their ODAC schedule when
they host Eastern Mennonite
on Tuesday night.

The Washington and Lee
ﬁeld hockey team had a rough
homecoming weekend, drop-
ping two games on its home
turf.

The Generals faced off
against Bridgewater on Friday
night in an ODAC contest. De-
spite dominating the action for
most of the first half, they were
unable to score. The Eagles did
convert, however, on their lone
offensive opportunity of the ﬁrst
half and took a 1-0 lead into half-
time.

The Generals continued to
control the action in the sec-
ond half but struggled to ﬁnd

ners.

Bridgewater again capital-
ized on one of its few scoring
opportunities midway through
the second half to take a 2-0
lead.

The Generals did not get on
the scoreboard until there was
just under 10 minutes left in the
game when junior midﬁelder Kitt
Murphy found sophomore
midﬁelder Jane Beall to cut the
lead to 2-1.

Bridgewater was able to pre-
serve its lead for the win and im-
prove its record to 5-4 overall,
and 2-4 in the ODAC.

In the loss, Washington and

around to face Juanita on Satur-
day afternoon in a non-confer-
ence game.

The Generals were unable
to get off a shot in the first half.
They kept the Eagles off the
scoreboard too, however, and
the teams entered halftime in a
scoreless tie.

Juanita finally opened the
scoring twelve minutes into the
second half, but the Generals
evened the score shortly there-
after when sophomore link S.B.
Northen found senior forward
Kelly Taffe to even the score at
1. ’

Washington and Lee con-

Generals were unable to get an-
other tally on the scoreboard
and the teams entered overtime
in a 1-1 tie.

The teams battled through
two overtime periods. Generals’
sophomore goaltender
Courtney Harrison made four of
her six saves in the overtime
periods. Gelinas made two saves
in the ﬁrst half.

After battling for 100 min-
utes, the Generals ﬁnally suc-
cumbed in penalty strokes, as
they were outscored 3-1. The 2-
1 victory improved Juanita’s
record to 9-5.

The two losses dropped

32:: mt: *z‘ea2~§ V

Sex: Splash ‘fears
3.8§9.a3.§.*§*"?2%
arrrrr.e.saz2sgias2tta23.rs.aoar

 

 

October is Domestic Violence
and Sexual Assault Awareness
Month

If you or someone you know is a victim
of domestic or sexual violence, please
call Project Horizon’-.5 24 hour hotline,
463-2594, for support and infomation.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Mennonite.

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams competed in
the Virginia State Division II-HI meet this
Saturday. The meet was held at Eastern

The men ﬁnished third of eight teams
in an 8k race. Junior Steve Chambers led
the way for the Generals with a time of 27:58.
He finished fourth overall. Senior Andy
Schorr ﬁnished fifth overall with a time of
28: 15. Senior Rusty Meyer placed eighth

 

GREAT D. The Field Hockey team made a great showing this week.

Cross country runs fast

overall at 28:35.

The women competed in a 6k race
and finished third of nine teams. Sopho-
more Betsy Frayer led the women with a
third place overall time of 25:27. Fresh-
men Tippins Stone and Jenny Ratzel fm-
ished with a tenth place time of 26:01 and
an eleventh place time of 26:08, respec-
tively.

Both the men’s and women’s teams
travel to Allentown, Pennsylvania on Sat-
urday to compete in the DeSales Invita-
tional.

 

 
 

as aw...



  .i1L¥1%".|'

 ‘ft;a~rtr.ais-tag‘ orgzvtiaris awéaéiﬁie... at-':¢ ': '  '   »
‘ﬁling   saith the 

  
 
 

 

 

 tie  net    
  

Golf Etiquette tip of the week:
A group playing a whole round is permitted to
pass a group playing a shorter round.

eeeeeee

l’li.Jll‘€S

Grow. tmssrerze. Rascal
Pztarssiarexanaes Mamas

309 N. Main St. ~ Le>ci.ngton, VA 24450

 
    

54£?~46¥~3447

 

  
 

MEGANMORGAN

AK1S&LlFEEDIIOR
FMAr;MoRGAArlrB@wiUri1J
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

 

is LIFE

Homecoming bands receive mixed reviews

verse, but they set the stage well
for the atmosphere of the concert.
KDTU played excellent back-
ground music, and a fairly large
crowd of people stayed up until
the end of the show. As people
were leaving to go to parties and

PAGE 7

BY KATHERINE SHELL toured this summer with the
it Alhnan Brothers and will begin

STAFF WRITER their fall tour in a couple of weeks
in Colorado. Information about
the band can be found in their
website: www.karldenson.com.
The show started at 9 but

Karl Denson’s Tiny Uni-
verse with opening act The Or-
dinary Way kicked off homecom-
ing this weekend at the Pavilion

Friday night. Both bands re- didn’t pickup until 10:30 or 11:00. other activities, other people were
ceived mixed reviews. While there was a dance party showing up to enjoy the end of
The Ordinary Way debuted just in front of the stage, there the show.

* in 1999 with their ﬁrst album, Ris-
ing. Based in Northern Virginia,
they have been traveling all over
the country since then, gaining
new fans every place they visit.

Overall, KDTU had a great at-
mosphere and was enjoyed by
many of the students. Other stu-
dents felt the need for a more lively,
interactive band, but everyone en-

was also a crowd of people stand-
ing in the back, just talking, and
not paying attention to the band.
The Ordinary Way, an interest-
ing mixture of jazz, reggae, and

  

 

Friday night was the first time blues, played slightly longer, joyed having KDTC and The Or-

they have opened for Karl slightly harder—to-dance-to songs dinary Way travel to Lexington to p_

Denson’s Tiny Universe. KDTU than Karl Denson’s Tiny Uni- kick off Homecoming Weekend! .
Corbin Blackford / The Ring-tum Phi

    

...aooovW"""‘“'“
Corbin Blackford / The Ring-tum Phi

Charlottesville offers dining delights

I think that at some point
we all start to feel as if the
walls of Lexington are closing
in on us and we just want to
escape this town, even for an
evening, if only to convince
ourselves that there is life
beyond this campus.

To make things even
worse, the restau-

rant culture stag— 

  

mind as both local favorites
and guaranteed great meals.
But last weekend I happened
upon an eatery I hadn’t no-
ticed before, and it has now
become my latest favorite.
Located on a corner of
“the Corner,” the appropri-
ately named hot spot right
across
f r o m

CAROLYN DUFFY ,

nates fairly ’ h e
quickly around HOMECOMING QUEEN U V a
here, and the ——————— ~"=—— campus
thought of more on Uni-

pizza, more subs, more Chi-
nese or Mexican food seems
almost unbearable. Well, per-
fect! It sounds like a road trip
is in order. A great meal, a
change of pace, a drive full of
breathtaking mountain views
and fall foliage...that’s more
than enough reason to ven-
ture out of town——how about
Charlottesville?

Recently, a national poll
named Charlottesville the
most energetic city in
America. And I think they
have the restaurants to match
that title. Exotic and exciting,
romantic and refined, lively
and colorful—The Mellow
Mushroom, Northern Expo-
sure, and the Ivy Inn come to

versity Ave, Michael’s Bistro
and Taphouse boasts a pub-
like atmosphere full of youth-
ful energy, a unique and ﬁnely
tuned beer and wine list, and
a surprisingly sophisticated
menu of both the exotic and
the familiar.

After climbing a steep
narrow staircase, patrons sud-
denly ﬁnd themselves in a spa-
cious, sprawling second-story
space where diners sit com-
fortably in multi-tiered sec-
tions of dark wooden booths.
The lucky dozen who have
managed to snag the balcony
tables overlooking the busy
street below have the privilege
of enjoying the cool night air
along with their cold beer.

When the server brings
you the menu, I am positive
you’ll have as difficult a deci-
sion on your hands as I did. I
wanted to order everything on
the menu, and to make it even
more impossible to decide they
also offer daily specials. I
settled on the Thai Chicken

Curry with dried apricots.

MOkay wait———I know that
sounds a little scary for those
of you who only eat as ethnic
as Hunan’s. But somehow
Michael’s throws in a bit of
East Asian inspiration and
French ﬂair without detracting
from the whole tavern/pub/
beer theme. It just works, and
after eating here even the big-
gest skeptics will have to ad-
mit that exotic ﬂavorings like
saffron and soy sauce and co-
conut milk can perk up the ﬁn-
est ﬂank steak and add texture
to the most tantalizing trout.
My chicken, served in a bowl
over basmati rice with gener-
ous slices of homemade
ﬂatbread to soak up the rich,
fruity, fragrant sauce, was out
of this world, no other way to
describe it.

The menu is diverse, and
the dishes combine complex
ﬂavors to create artistic and el-

egant dishes like chicken
and duck potpie served
with a thick, hearty stew
and topped with browned
mashed potatoes. Equally
tempting was the Icelandic
Arctic Char‘ (that’s fish)
wrapped in a potato crepe
and served with crispy pro-
sciutto and asparagus.
How amazing does that
sound? I would be willing
to bet you won’t find food
like that in Lexington—and
certainly not for $10, which
is the average price for en-
trees. An exceptional deal
to say the least.

One more reason to try
Michael’s: you can order a
beer sampler and try four
small glasses of the most
interesting—sounding beers
on the menu. With at least
twelve beers on tap, over 40
bottles, and a selection that
focuses on American
microbreweries like Rogue
and Pyramid, you have a
wide variety to choose
from.

I am convinced that a
great meal is worth the
trip—Michael’s Bistro and
Taphouse was definitely
worth mine.

The Ring

-tum Phi

wishes the

Washington and Lee community

a safe and happy
Reading Days

  

Corbin Blackford / The Ring-tum Phi

ABOVE, under one of the big
tents located at the Law School
field, alumni, young and old
alike, enjoyed the scrumptous
buffet line provided by dining
services.

FAR LEFT, students like Josh
Comthwaite and Mandi Kimble
ate various food types ranging
from hors d‘oeuvres to crispy
cookies while chatting with fel-
low students and graduates.

LEFT, the band The Ordinary Way
played music in hopes of inspir-
ing dancers, unfortunately few
took the cue.

W&L offers variety of ﬁlms

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

Like movies but tired of go-
ing to the small Lexington the-
atre or driving to Roanoke to see
one? Students have another
option at their disposal. This Oc-
tober, several ﬁlms will be pre-
sented by various organizations
on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus.

The John W. Elrod’s Com-
mons Theatre will host several
ﬁlms this month. These include
“Seabiscut” and “2 Fast 2 Furi-
ous. “Seabiscut, which stars
Tobey Maguire and Jeff Bridges,
tells the story of a racehorse
considered an underdog by most,
that rises to prominence during
the Great Depression. The film
will be shown at 9:30 on October
14th.

2 Fast 2 Furious is the story
of a former cop, played by Paul
Walker, who along with an ex—con
friend helps to transport money
for a Miami crime lord while se-
cretly working for an undercover
agent to bring the the crime lord
down. This ﬁlm will be presented
at 7:30 p.m. on October 17th and
18th. Both this film and
Seabiscut are being sponsored
by the university.

The Washington and Lee
Film Society will also be present-
ing several films in the Commons
Theatre. These include “Bend It
Like Beckham” and “The Devil’s
Backbone”. “Bend It Like
Beckham tells the story of Jess
Bahmra, a young Indian girl
growing up in England who is a
talented soccer player but is un-
able to play because of her

fair1ily’s traditional values. The
film will show at 7:30 on October
24th and 25th.

“The Devils Backbone,
showing at 7:30 on October 31st
and November 1st, is a super-
natural drama about a remote
Spanish orphanage at the end of
the Civil War that is haunted by
the ghost of a child.

Several ﬁlms will also be
shown at the Williams School of
Commerce. On October 23rd,
“RussianArk”will appearas part
of the Fall 2003 Russian Film Se-
ries. The film, which is in Russian
with English subtitles, is told
through the eyes of an unseen
Russian director who meets the
19th century Marquis de Custine
while touring the Hermitage Mu-
seum. As the two of them stroll
through the rooms of the muse-
ums, rooms which used to be the
home to generations of
Romanovs, they meet up with
historical ﬁgures from Peter the
Great to Nicolas II. The ﬁlm will
be shown at 7 in Room 221 of the
C—School.

The Fall 2003 Politics
Filrnfest will also present a film in
Room 221 of the C—School. At 7
on October 24th, the ﬁlm “Brim
will be shown.The ﬁlm, directed
by Gillo Pontecorvo, examines co-
lonialism and revolution on
Portugese controlled Carribean
island during the 18th century.
Marlon Brando starts as an En-
glishman on a secret mission to
incite a slave revolt, seize the
sugar cane trade for England and
reenslave the revolters.

All of these ﬁlms are open to
the W&L community and are free
of charge.

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

University
Cleaners

WE’LL GET RID OF YOUR DIRT

Great Service
First—Rate Quality

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie

international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
www.tn‘p|enine.org

in an

Editorial Note: In last week’s Ring—tum Phi, we ran a sec-
tion called “Homecoming Nominees announced.” Three people’s
pictures were excluded. Melanie Barr, Joanna Periniiand Arriita
Wofford were not included because the Phi’s source for
headshots is The Calyx and the three women were not in the
yearbook. We are sincerely sorry for any confusion that may

have resulted.

HOUSE FOR RENT

Available June 2004
6 Tucker Street
3 Bedrooms/1 Bath
Living Room/Large Kitchen
Washer/Dryer
Recently Renovated

463-9180 evenings/weekends
458-5001 weekdays

$840/mo.

 

 

 

PAGE 8

  

“ll-{E Ri::se~i"i%;si Pa:

THE AST ORD

How, when and where to get it

The award-winning Absolut FratIord’s guide to freshman romance

College features the whole spectrum of re-
lationships. You can sometimes ﬁnd a pure, ro-
mantic relationship — the kind when the happy
couple sticks together for years and antes up
for the long haul. Of course, not all college rela-
tionships are so perfect. On the dark side, you
have those “weekend-only” relationships, lust-
motivated and practically convenient. In be-
tween, relationships take so many forms and
labels that you can never really be sure what’s
going on between two college people. Are they
hooking up? Are they dating?
Are they whipped? Who knows,
but here is the Frat Lord advice 
on college relationships:

First things first — High
school relationships belong in high school.
There is no easier way to ruin your freshman
year than to cling to the past as long as you
possibly can. The story is so common it’s al-
most cliché — high school boyfriend/girlfriend
end up in different places, desperately commit-
ting to keep it going. They talk on the phone.
They chat on the intemet. They send emails.
For the first few breaks, they bustle home as
quickly as possible, spend every waking minute
with each other, and then return to school at the
last possible moment, dejected that they have
to suffer through more intolerable separation.

Where is the fun in that? There are so many
reasons why folks desperately cling to high
school relationships. Sometimes, people like to
just stick to what they’re used to. Sometimes,
people just feel insecure without a significant
other. But when you have four (or more) years
of college ahead of you, the LAST thing you
should do is cling to high school relationships,
especially if they’re more trouble than what
they’re worth.

Don’t get me wrong — long—distance rela-
tionships have their benefits. If you can stand
only seeing your “other” every 6 weeks or so,
long—distance allows you the freedom to live

 

ABSOLUT FIEEBKD“
TIM SMrrH ‘04

your life without someone checking up on your
every move. But the minute you start sacriﬁc-
ing fun in the here—and—now for someone X hours
away, long—distance relationships lose their
point.

College is not the time to limit your options.
College is a time to have fun. And when it comes
to relationships, college is a time to be practical.

Think about it. You can try as hard as you
want to make a long—distance relationship work.
And maybe, for a year or two, you succeed. But
eventually, something could go
wrong, causing the relationship
to come to an end. You feel the
hurt, the emotional drain from los-
ing something you’ve worked so
hard to keep. And then you realize, worst of all,
that you let two or more years of your college
social life slip down the drain.

So here is the frat lord recommendation for
relationships during your W&L tenure — HOOK
UP!

College relationships work backwards. Hook
up first. Hook up again. Hook up a third time —
Call it a relationship. This is how things go. It’s
not necessarily a horrible thing, it just takes some
getting used to.

Some people can’t bring themselves to
consider the hook-up. Some purists think that
relationships are only worthwhile if they pro-
vide long—term meaningful benefit. Their in-
tentions are good, but their expectations are
misplaced. Hook-ups are part of the college
experience.

Even if you don’t choose to hook-up (you
don’t have to), just remember this important
guideline — Don’t put yourself into any relation-
ship situation that limits your opportunity for
fun. Go on some dates. If you get that feeling
that things just aren’t what you’re looking for,
DON’T PROLONG. Get the hell outta dodge.
Why stay in a situation that’s not going to pan
out? Why waste the time?

MEGANMORGAN
AKIS&LlFEEDlFOR
EwAn;M)RcArnin@wLnn1J

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

BENNrFER’s BEST. Ame1:ica’s couple is the epitome of love for which every W&L couple should strive.

College only lasts four years. Here, nearing
the end of my tenure, this fact is becoming more
clear every day. You could spend that time liv-
ing miserably, trying to prolong relationships that
are doomed to failure. Or you could spend that
time having fun.

I’m sure there are thousands of counter-
arguments against my realism. But, like I said,

college only lasts so long. Over the next few
years, you’ll have tons of important things
to worry about, decisions to make that will
permanently shape your futures. Take my
advice —— enjoy this time while it lasts. Oth-
erwise, you may find yourself in four years
looking over your shoulder, wondering where
the time went.

What to wear...what to wear, so many choices and so little time
This week the Fashionista is back and fuming about common faux-pas at Washington and Lee University

The seasons are changing and it is time to
update our wardrobes. Here are a few tips for
picking out the perfect outﬁt sure to score you
the best date possible for the Mock Con Gala
(since he might not have taken you to homecom-
ing):

When buying clothes try them on, and if you
do shop on-line and after receiving the item ﬁnd
that it’s too big or too small, send it
back. Most on-line stores offer fre
shipping on returns, and will ex
change items for free.

If it doesn’t ﬁt, don’t buy it;
end of story. Size really does matter, but it doesn’t
matter what size. The point is to look good in
your clothes, not to squeeze your size 10 legs
into size 2 pants. You’re going to look better in
something that fits comfortably than something
that is too tight.

On that note please make sure your shirts
cover your rnidriff. There is nothing more dis-
gusting than rolls sticking out where top should
meet bottom.

With regards to designers: WHO CARES? I
can recognize a good designer as well as the next
and appreciate quality items, but trust me we can
all see the little LV’s on your Louis bag, and we
don’t need to hear you gossip about it as if it
were some freshman girl you want to early bid. I
don’t care if the pope himself hand—stitched your

 
  

 

FAsHoN1sTA’s FURY

Italian leather pumps, If they’re ugly, don ’t buy
them. Seriously! There is nothing more unattrac-
tive than listening to someone blab about their
$600 designer skirt, (emphasis on the price tag).
It just makes me think that they really do lack
fashion sense, because while God may have made
the skirt it is still ugly, and deﬁnitely not worth
$6, let alone $600.

So now that you have secured
a wardrobe in the appropriate
size and price range the ﬁnal, and
perhaps most important step is
to always consult a full-length
mirror before leaving your house. NO EXCEP-
TIONS.

Some recent cases of those who “forgot” to
look in the mirror before walking out the door:

Me — every day. Seriously, I look like crap on
all occasions, so I ﬁgure why not let thet world
know!

The girl in the white stilettos. These are two
heinously offensive topics.

1) No more white shoes

2) for advice on stilettos please consult last
week's column.

XAK (but I’m sure he doesn’t care) and if he
does would someone please buy him some socks.
The blazer over the cowl neck sweater - Re-
ally, why did you do that; because while I’m sure
you think it was cute, the combination made it

THE

look like you got your fashion sense from Bozo
the clown.

The way too tight white shirt, pink skirt, and
lace-up around the ankle shoes: a) spandex is a
privilege not a right, don’t think that just because
they make it in your size you can wear it. (it’s like
those size 87 bikini’s does anyone want to see
that on spring break? No!) b) again NO MORE
WHITE SHOES, and what’s with this lace at the
ankle thing? Are we all trying to practice tying
toe shoes to audition for the New York City Bal-
let Co.?

While the previously mentioned pink skirt is
passable, though barely, the puffy, rufﬂed, wrap-
around number has to go; don’t wear it again.

And while we’re on pink, get rid of the pink
shoes too. Really, are we six?

Since pink has been such a dominant factor
so far I feel it necessary to mention that only
movie characters can have a “signature color”
and even that sounds ridiculous to me. Put some
spice in your wardrobe by mixing up the colors
and try to venture out of the pastel family every
now and again.

So far we’ve hit on clothes and shoes, but
thinking back to my freshman days makes me
remember how much importance a good face book
picture has on your life at W&L. To secure a
snapshot of superior caliber entails a perfectly
groomed coif so listen up.

You must wash your mane at least every 36
hours, that is virtually EVERY day. If you’re con-
cerned about damage from drying and styling just
let it air dry while you’re sleeping and deal with
the damage in the morning.

For those of us with curly hair who long for a
sleaker look, please make sure you straighten your
whole head (including the back). To achieve the
best look I would recommend ﬁrst drying using a
blow-dryer and a round, preferably boars hair,
brush, before a quick once—over with a straight-
ening iron if necessary.

As a ﬁnal point if you choose to enhance
your natural hair color by highlighting remember
that these subtle accents are done to do just that
— highlight your natural color — not to take you
from ebony to blonde, and some of us must real-
ize that we can’t be blondes. For expert advice
on the best way to enhance the natural beauty of
your own hair consult your hairdresser. Addi-
tionally before putting any color in your hair re-
member that dye jobs are high—maintenance.
Roots must be kept up; seriously, you don’t want
to look like a zebra.

These are just a few thoughts on what ought
not be done and how to make the most of what
you’re given. Take my advice and just take a
careful look at yourself before leaving and you’ll
probably be OK; otherwise you’ll hear about it
next week.

“is

(I) The Women’s Swim Team would like
the Men’s Swim Team to stop urinating
in the pool.

 

Q Stop making fun of Lilly Pulitzer. She
has excellent Fall and Winter collections
in addition to her now out-of-season
Spring, Summer and resort wear.

Q The light in the old Sig—Ep House
should really be turned off.

Q I’m glad the infirmary takes such
great care of its patients and listens to
me when I tell them that I have a serious
problem. They really do a great job!

Q Forget Prof. So-and-so: Dick Grefe is the
hardest grader at this school.

Q Freshmen should not vomit in the uri-
nals.

Q Jeb Brooks is quite possibly the most
eligible bachelor on campus.

(I) Don’t do drugs kids, because if you do,
in the words of Coach Joe Lyles, “You lose!”

(I) I think that if you swallow gasoline,
you’re generally okay, unless you burp,
which many people think is rude.

Q What was with that opinions piece on
video games last week? Can you say super-
nerd?

(I) University Cleaners is the absolute best!

Q I demand shuffleboard courts some-
where on campus, possibly in the Commons.

(1) Tom Burish for provost! _

Q Fraternity houses would also like some
tri—ply toilet paper.

Q RACAS is coming: http://stufs.wlu.edu/
~mendralaa/racas/newpage.html. '

(1) Health tip: Lack of water is the number
one trigger of daytime fatigue.

Q What freshmen would be dumb enough
to accept a bid in October from Sigma Phi
Oops-we’re-gone or whatever their name is
now?

(I) Father Alan Lipscomb, pastor of St.
Patrick’s, has the best red-headed afro this
side of the Atlantic!

(1) Graham—Lees 2nd ﬂoor Commons side
would like Helen Hughes personally to bring
tri—ply toilet paper to the hall.

(I) Hooking up in freshmen dorms loses its
luster once you’re a junior.

(I) The Lexington post office is unreliable,
however, campus mail services can be
trusted.

Q Tuesdays are underrated.

Q Mini-skateboards, as seen in Wal-mart,
are fun for about ten minutes.

(I) Breadsticks are the best tasting and most
economical snack on the new Co-op’s menu.

(I) The Emporium” will never be able to
live down the name Co—op nor “The Mar-

ketplace” the name “D-Hall.”

(I) How many meanings are behind the title
“Five Star General?”

(1) If dogs are “man’s best friend,” then
are cats “man’s mortal enemy?”

(1) Why are there so many cats lurking
around campus?

(1) Shout out to Le Chat!
Q What ever happened to Bob Villa?

Q Sen. Robert Byrd (D- W. Va.) is the only
former Klansman in Congress.

(1) Three cheers to Dean Watkins for let-
ting two sad and stranded students shower

in the Lee-Jackson House on Wednesday.

(1) Turtles are great reptiles.

(I) E—mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

