'11.

   

T/re Iirrilent mice of W/niiiington and Ur Urrinerrin Iinre 7897 CD On/inc at: piirlu/irr.edn

PHI

 3 
VOLUME CVl,No.V

MONDAY, MAY 26, 2003

Commons construction nearly complete

Twenty million dollar building will have limited dining room seating, movie theatre turned biology lecture center, party-ready loading dock larger than Pavillion

BY ERIN JULIUS AND KYLE WAss
sI>oRIs EDITOR AND ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Construction of the new Univer-
sity Commons is continuing as sched-
‘uled, Associate Dean of Students
Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said. The ex-
terior of the building should be com-
plete, and the interior should be ﬁn-
ished sometime over the summer in
ﬂtime for a grand opening celebration
in September.
TheCommomwillbe“waimandwel—
oominglooking,”DeanI_eroyAtkins said.
A_ A lot of effort has been put into
ensuring that the new building blends
appropriately with the older architec-
ture on campus. The three sides fac-
ing the Colonnade have been build in
A the traditional style while the side fac-
ing Woods Creek is designed to have
a more modern feel, with large open
windows and several open patio ar-
eas overlooking the beautiful view.
A challenge of the design in en-
suring that the Commons would ﬁt in
with the rest of the campus was guar-
,i anteeing that it would not surpass the

Colonnade in height. Modern electri- ,

cal features made this difﬁcult for the
architects, as they had to fitiall the
duck-work into a smaller design. The
Commons is now level with Newcomb
Hall in height.

One feature of the interior is the im-
pressive iron and steel circular staircase
complete with Brazilian bluestone stairs.

The goal of the architects was to
maintain open spaces and invite lots
of light to create a relaxed atmosphere.
Atkins’s hope is that this space will,
“be a comfortable place for people to
hang out,” he said.

H V The Commons will be open for
student use 24-hours a day. Students
will have access to four different Re-
source Rooms, small student study
centers and lounges at all hours.

Each Resource Room has a dif-

‘ ferent theme and is decorated to re-
ﬂect the group for whom the Resource
Room is made. The Women’s Studies
Program, Outing Club, International
programs and Volunteer Services will

I‘ all be getting Resource Rooms. The
rooms, however, will be available by
appointment for all students.

Another interesting aspect of the

A new building is a “traditional meeting
room” with approximately 50 chairs.
Atkins said that this room would be
“available to campus religious
groups.” Religious leaders will have

“ access to a small office off the meet-
ing room for times they wish to be

BY KYLE WAss
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

,* This week, Professor H. Tho-
' mas Williams Jr. was named pro-
vost of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, replacing Laurent
Boetsch, who has decided to step
1 down from the
position to re-
turn to teach-
ing.
William s
has served on
the Washing-
ton and Lee
faculty since
a 1974, both ad-
vising and
teaching, as well as helping to
' build and expand the physics and
engineering department’s pro-
grams, which led him to chair the
I department from 1989-2000, before
which he served as associate
‘dean of the college from 1986-
4 ‘ 1989. He was named the
University’s Edwin A. Morris Pro-
I fessor ofPhysics in 1994. During
his career at Washington and Lee,
’ Williams has also published 28
scientific articles based on re-
9 search in theoretical nuclear and
particle physics.
Williams will serve in his cur-
4 rent position as acting dean ofthe
College until July 1, when he will
undertake his duties as provost.

ILLIAMS

 

available exclusively to the students
of the University.

This meeting room is near the, “big,
collaborative space surrounded by 24

Burish picks V\ﬁ||iams as Provost

This position, second only to the
presidency, requires Williams to
be responsible for the administra-
tive management of W&L units in-
cluding admissions, athletics, in-
stitutional research, University
Computing, the University
Registrar’s office, Leyburn Li-
brary, student life offices, special
and interdisciplinary programs,
international education and mu-
seum programs. He will also be
an important figure in the deci-
sions to hire new faculty as well
as the annual evaluation of fac-
ulty and administrators.

The provost is responsible for
the overall management and bud-
geting of all academic programs,
and the deans of the College, the
Williams School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics, and Politics, and the
School of Law report directly to
him. As provost, Williams will also
work closely with the Board of
Trustees’ Academic Affairs Com-
mittee.

According to a press release,
Williams said that his biggest contri-
bution to Washington and Lee “has
been in teaching a collection of very
talented students: encouraging them
when that was needed, challenging
them when the time came and stand-
ing aside when it was time for them to
[go] solo. In fact, that is Washington
and Lee’s biggest contribution to me,
too.”

-;.-.u.....,_,

JEB BROOKS / The Ringtum Pin"
at the students’ disposal. In addition,
there will be several common copiers
and fax machines available to all. This
student meeting space also features a

cubicles,” for student organizations.
The cubicles can be rearranged to suit
various organizations’ needs. Each
cubicle will have a phone and computer

i“

UP IN sI\IoI;E

COURIEYKIMKREIDER
Fire. No one was injured, but two vehicles were damaged when a Ford Astro van (center) caught
fire Sunday morning at Zollman’s Pavillon. The driver is not a Washington and Lee student and
turned into the Pavillon area after noticing smoke rising from his hood. He opened the hood,
and the car burst into ﬂames causing considerable damage to the van and slight melting to an
SUV (left) parked nearby. Lexington Rescue Squad responded to the incident but reported no
injuries. The driver, reportedly an amateur disc jockey, managed to remove his compact disc
collection before the ﬁre reached the back part of the van. i

   

 

common kitchen area and loﬁ over-
looking the great room.

' “The architect really caught what
we were looking for in the religious

]EI3 BROOKS /' Tiie Ring-Iur21PlIr
STAIRWAY T0 HEAVEN. (Left) An iron and steel spiral staircase
is the centerpiece of the University Commons lobby. The
steps are covered in Brazilian blue stone tiles.
I’M Too SEXY. (Top) Two catwalks span the interior of the
building to link the two sides of the building.
EATING Is FUN, EATING Is SERIOUS. (Middle) The food
preparation area of the new dining hall connects with the
actual  hall. The eating area will bave two separate rooms
with a dining area outside the building. Combined seating is
about 350.

EvERYB0DY’s WORKIN’ FOR THE WEEKEND. (Bottom) Lights.

from Tbe Ring-tum Pbi and Tbe Calyx offices shine into
the main student activities room, which will soon be
filled with cubicles for activities such as SJC and IFC.

and student organizations’ spaces,”
said Atkins.

SEE COMMONS, PAGE 2

Board questions calendar

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
STAFF WRITER

The Board of Trustees at its May meeting released a
statement regarding the undergraduate academic calen-
dar. James D. Farrar, Jr., Secretary of the University and
Assistant to the President, commented on the Board’s
statement, “This is less a conversation about Spring Term
as it is about designing the best possible academic expe-
rience for Washington and Lee students. Calendars are
how the experience is packaged. The Board is interested
in helping the Administration implement the best possible
calendar.”

The President and Administration reported to the
Board the history of the long term discussions about the
calendar, demands on academic resources, and outlined
the alternatives currently being discussed. The Board
has been informed of the faculty and student liaisons to
which students can give (feedback on the calendar.

Earlier last week, President Burish spoke with the fac-
ulty on where this issue is going. The groups will con-
tinue to collect data throughout the summer and into early
fall. The Board of Trustees wants all the fully articulated
options and the best estimate of what each option would
cost by the Fall Board meeting on October 24 and 25, 2003.

When asked which groups would have the most in-
ﬂuence on the decision, Farrar replied, “All parties need
to agree. The components of this complex issue are very
much interrelated: faculty teaching loads, general educa-
tion requirements, and the availability of resources. It is
the Board’s responsibility to evaluate resources, the fac-
ulty decides general education and major requirements,
and the Administration’s responsibility is the calendar.”
He also said that the student’s role would be providing
feedback to the liaisons. Students are encouraged to pro-
vide feedback as to how the various calendar options
might affect them. For example, Sociology/Anthropology

SEE BOARD, PAGE 2

 

 

V » “


NEW
New Habitat store in BV seeks supplies 

MONDAY, MAY 26, 2&3:

MONDAY, MAY26.
Java—Palociza in HE HI‘: glad, 7:30-10:30. G-iriadian
 play .  L »\
"TcpGi.r1s"— ’lZtHai1eSaCi.es. w ritjzéiiq/(hryls,.§1'11rd'iiJl
 LLLoyt:'i'..Ke]_le:i:
']l'x=.atre, Lenfest Oaiteir, 82(1) p.m. -'2 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28.  ‘rr  
.A1umi Sa1iorI\tighi: at:La'bertyHa1l Ruirs. 
A 1] Author G'Ii:is Canito, author of ”Hur1tirg 

    

BY KATIE ]. HOWELL
EDITOR IN Cl-llEl’

A risivB.1ildjrgSLJp_olyPesale storeinagiavisiais

qaeriing sotnarxiseelcirig WashJ'n_;itcI1arr1Lee studaii;
si.gr3rttlirugr1dr1'iatia'1of11rriee3ec'lit:urearr1ap—
piiarrzs.
’]1'EStQrevin'JlkB1;1}1te:1at347 WeetTa'ithSt;a1i
wiJ_'LbeoAried1cyHabitat for}-lnariiq/.’lhest<:x:eis@rai
toiardstnre  t aridwtill sell itens suchas
pajritmiflocirirgsigaiia.

~mail news briefs to

 

W&L names Philip NOIW00d as Flector-e/act

Wednesday May 28, 6-9 p.m.

Drink specials on
Margaritas and Beer

‘.1;  9. °.».P.«' ,9. .‘ L9. 3 9-.=».° '

 

 

 0 0’ 0 (“Q 0

::’O‘§!Q’O’OO_OO,OQOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQVQOO

or the Stonewall
resale s'rore  

s arelocated in dormi
‘ University Center,

   
   

     
   
  

 
 

 

 

3

Habitat forH1rariityisaoui1nJnity service organi-
:x:at;i.c1'1t1'rat:3_r3e1:ia]j2einh1iJriliII_;1'nIs fm 
'I1'eBJildirgS.;plyResa1estoreisrDt:t1Ecrﬂ.yH3k3i—
tzatszrxeintheara. A ragﬂarl-H:itatl:r%1estoreis1o—
catedat:32lN. Maini.  '1heLeciIgtmstore
frunsuﬂmtsastheyleavefor
thesuimer.
”Iwasstnd<adto1':iIrilo1tthatHi1it2athJiltei:_:l'1t
1'r1.se£vvit1'1nrn=.y1":runtheLeciIgt<1'1resale store/’Beth
Ctneasy, Habitat forﬁnariitypxojectaucrdiratorfcrtte

COMMONS, FROM PAGE1
A1sorraid1igtl'ieir1x:reintha(huIu'svvi_1lbethe

lleaiofstixhitssmff. Tl'eira1iteJ'n:]i19saret:q1:icr1

areaaﬁsaieralofliioas. Binrlhtz, C‘arolCaulJ<iIsar1i

wi1J_iarss;hoo1suxaerxi:czmi1tirgGrz1psaid.".iost
thiriktvunarlynuretleyaanbiilddne theyqnenthe
secrrdstore.”
Vo]1rn:eersattteLeidrgtmstoresaidt1'estr:ii:ec'ar1
pJllin$2OO—5OOjnqeday.
S:uia'itsinteres‘n:aiind:r1atirgtoa'Ieoft:l'estores
a"n.11dcmta:t Akbyvan Veraacirseetfrraigiblicsavioe
arnrnaratatttehsttonofttiispag-eforﬁmiEriI1for—
rratirn.
’ClliSirI,l_Ira’tK)ﬁtiEi(hQ1:toti'eS1ﬂa'tsTi'EtI-Hliiziti
cH1i.edma11'c1'stD1'e1pc11l:agJ0dca1se,”C‘re2£_{aio'l.

Commons preparation underway

w.-ilasF‘iIl1nS.bc:'L®rrUJies. Ir1a&litim. tteroaritas
power13ointted'rDlcgyforledb1resardGar1heusaias
ar1ovafj_1lroonforpad<aiaiﬁiaaﬁatLeeGiapel.
‘Ihebiolcx_:ydeparma'1taJreadyreservedtherocrr1
sotil'atitcar1cmbinatx«osecticrsofBio1ogy1Jlinto

cerns.

Sincerely,
The 12-12-6 Committee

Ansel Sanders, Chairman
Kelly Jo Larsen
Helen Hughes
Thomas Worthy
Charlotte Marie DuPre
Vishal Sapra
4 Carlos Spaht
ii,,Lawso’i:i~;_,Qrumbine

     

ated and charged by the Executive Committee of the
Student Body, the faculty and the administration to
develop a thorough report of the advantages and
disadvantages of the current 12-12-6 calendar. We
would like to remind everyone that the issue is still
unresolved, and a decision deadline has not been set.
Please remember that this is an issue that affects
every member of our community, and everyone’s in-
put and opinion is important to us. Please contact
one of us with your questions, comments and con-

Joanna Perini 
Austin Kim
Kristin Crawford
Hans Carlson
Brian Castleberry

Jonathan WOFthan’§§;% A 

Kyle Meehan

ll.

4,3Qp_m_  Avei:yGD1stcnwi_i_1also cre1aI§lec:turec1a$ofipto15Opeq_:ﬂe. 1‘
ﬁ,‘,_r‘:-ATHURSDMGMAYZ9. Washjrgtmardhaemi .ty, Bard f Tmstag bepr<:r»/Jdradvirit1'1ofﬁ1cesmtheOrmrrIs. I 
Ir Jd,1,sm.Iheat[e,LEnf€StCa1_ kﬁselaifﬁgﬂjpw-NmUﬂofGE:lOtteI;.C., tobe Psforsuxim1:a1'NH11e'n$,vknletIeh1ﬂdirgvdJ1 wiJl1:eneq/qH:isa\iaJJai;31efoirt:1'Ia1r_ar:t:Lvit1es. Iritha
I te_~,g;q)p_m_  d_Emi‘E[Sit:Y,SrE¢}€CtQr,effeCﬁ‘Bm]atBOxCterZIB beq:a1a1lthat1Ire,foodviz1JlrDtbesa:\ied24—i'rurs. '11'E  , ttereisasrallhardpractioerouriaxaible

FR1DAY,MAY30. """ ‘‘ I_bwJ-_—L1SxDeedJ.EIankSKfaCEJr a  Ha! foodsa:\Iioeswill,1'mever,prUvirhed:a'ﬂed}n.1rsar1i bjcardaoce$Q'1lysothateqJ1pna1tcai'1bestore:i. ‘
‘.5  cjasses ad, 1 . Vvmhas EU/D  1.nthe'  ali/taysbeava.'LLable. Aﬂitimally, t.‘raeisa"pote'itialreconiirgstLn"iio”arda‘
 SATURDAY,MAY31_ am ,ﬂ_EFeCtOrSenEsaSi . Oftjeuﬂ .ty,SpCSl  feature darkrocxnfeatlrrzirg 
 Lkﬁergraciuateaarisbegin. OfT  , bakery, ckﬂi, salaikaradtntfaﬁcpdas. phi/C1a$. 'IteIrpeistl3attlech1ﬂ<rooi1vnllaieda_yhe

 MoNDAY,]UNE2. Njmood ﬂepresldaltardqqiefﬁallti Oﬁﬁ AtJcirssgIal1stiHtt}edi:mI_:;ha]lbeaIeoftbe,"besi:  ‘

 A o£FaisnErit::prisa:,qeofae1a:gesta:merVz[:ia1r:i d‘”ee°rfGrI$ta”atsir‘I.".dIgt°”"}ES‘id Rmwul . pi’”.Ite‘esmgd'ﬂg1ela‘31t.lSﬂEtmﬁ‘Of&B'k
Degree agplicatims foriﬁeoatber 2003 graduaticn estate develqlrmtafdjm/esmaqtnanagmglt fimsm kenabtocxtiermderiavciinugtaﬂadﬁerevdllkzem ka11ld3Ig1suriErgruniforasthet.1creaso's. ”.Ehelcad—
d2eatLr1iversity13H_:;istrar’sOEEioe, U'ii\zersityGenter. ﬂeﬁbstemcnagt of themitai States ]ﬂatajJ.nGHr_ "stern—]_‘1n$.” ’1hedi.nJ.rgha]_1 ischnrataimthcialt 1Igd::d<, eIErwLyge'ie:ratorsarr1].otsofstorageL=,:eioe_
TUEsDAY,]UNE3. 1CﬂENC_ Aftasjxywrsofpri‘/ate1a'NpraCtiCe Njmlﬂ bi1.ietilea'I:1AtkiIs1n_o$tl'ratf<13:1ser\rioeviiillreaha, isalltnsdirﬁergrurd. 'Itel<:adiIgd:d<isf_iwet1'nm‘
 , Jd'rsI1 ’Iheati:e,La'ifestOa1ter, 8:OOp.m. estate develqmglt and l.nvesmHlt_ * ]har}d1tLa'1tot:l'ed1n1IIg.ta1lﬂHevinJlbea<1afécpa1 forsirnilarpirpoas. ;
WEDNEsDAY,]UNE4. A l969WaS,m.ngtmardDeegIadJate Namoodhas forlamrtrurs. ’Il'ecafé1s]oaatairiearthagarerocm Ii"ieCdmu'iscanbeaccessedb;/a.waJlJ<way
 te ,EIQtIaJ1, 1o;ooa_m_ bea1aHHT@OfW&L,SB:ardOfTnBt€e;SSjmeFEbru_ arﬂ”tni'eer1tabaimlait”oai1:erar1:1willoffavan'o.s Wast.nrgtrr1Stratiate><ta'rfts@ttbehi3ld1rg,tfneris/vi
THURsDAY,]UNE5. an/1997' FzUnOCtCbEr2OOOmtﬂEEbnJaIy2OO3 mmmd nmlqstids. B::t1'1d1n1rgareeswiJlheawaJ_'1ab1etost:u— arphithaater,  

 m t, Fra'1tLawn., lO:OOa.m. d,EjIait1,Eh1aId,SGjpita1PmjeCtSChmﬁtteea1,d J-]]_ <i3'1tSO'1tiEH€a1P1H1.a'Iit0t1E1I1bliC. .  913%/f‘=1I€9SV
}3I~ai1phi@;,q1u_e;11With24/7eVg1ts, fully .33 1 . . Ofa 1 of . . . Rrsb.I3a'itait:ata1rna'i1:,’d'ie(huru'soffe:sa\iai:1e1:yof fm aﬂp$Mya mt. j
 aﬂmﬂadm§ projects m W&L,:hiStm.C cpjcrs. A ”tr1ree'i1:ertaima1t:”roonoff'B:ssaau'rgfcr]0—12 To prcmote canpus unity, one last Corrmons;
L . t a'da13ig—s1a1telei/isimnzitiinbazzzhiilitjs. Naxttothis space is a great: ”liv1'ng man for the campus” 

‘ eXIl’|9 On cartptlsmc-rgt}SeEmje:tsaIe&EﬁVemNSQrCKity}wS$' xommjllheﬂregzrerounvzithpooltdaiesadaﬁuzslzniltzatale. Frenzh doors, a grand piano, sofas and a gas fire-—* “l
. . . . .' Pmthai: ' tt:actim' tl'em3v1e' ttea 'th lace. This wi'L1be a'l_1thetiIretothevh>l'
"" weekly ﬂemlﬂmwmﬁmgﬂaw; the will Ian/aum OfRa~d 189  fems;ts ItwiJl_1Sp1ay ﬁrst—rLn as £c)oInmunity area Open er

_ Ha1l,v~hid'i1'11,se3t}ejoin'ra1isndq:ari3iia'Ita*1iitsstate— ' '
Forecast of—tﬂ'1e~artcznierga'1Eted'rDlogy;there'I1ra1:imoffonier M “
re:reati;Ial$a:1earIi]od<er;ro:nsir1toariewﬁiuiascH1— I
mm M mt  we mm mwnmmmause Board looks to communi for calendar answers
diim; adtliecreaijmofrsuaﬁﬂajc ﬁeirﬁ.

T“eSdaY‘ E-"1 Shmersr 70/51 ihefczrmnirg achievanent fw m}1;sEl%d— BOARD FROM PAGE1 fituze. A mirsoiuummuldbe, for qiestim of grarriﬁatlnertirg the cur—‘ ,_
ersh:p' o theCr>pitalPzojectsChmiittee' be qaerr ’ exaip1ie,toin£onnuaec1assof2oo7 ra'ii;st1da'i1:bo:ilyi.r1i:ot1'ec1,rz:i:ait12~
W _3Etta€i T_StQm's’7O/53 jII2IthiSS~IHTEfOft1'1e58,00033paI€fOOt,fC1Ir-leVE*lJCi'n najorsnayloveS3i::1IgTeiInbE—:~ thatthr.§/vnﬂdlavears/vcBla'I3ar 12-6}%1’DCe«}B'1CQT‘eLpl'I1diS(1JS—‘

W-E3IOd1hiVEfSiCYC1IUTU'BiiAhid1latePrESj.<i*i1tE11IOd <:aLseofthedigorEtrImiics1rajors ti'm'rsa'1ii:rjyaraIite1ltl'Ecl&of sim.”

Tmrghf ISO1at@‘ T_StOrmS— 74/55 Ca1l€it1'EUTlVEfSitY'S fuulre "h“ilYIUfIIl-" bewuse of tie ]1'1I;ei:riaticmil Tenn 2008 that they muld have the new To voice your qairiicn to the

. 1\T0IVD0C1iSkf10Nf1aITD1’19V\7&L CrUSCeeSaSaIIiaS- Zho3:3,itisti'a'ri:e1IIsibilitytote1l  BcardofDi3:ectorsyoumist fOI1.UN,~
F‘ﬂChY_PartlyC1'O‘ﬁY’ 79/58 t€fﬁJl£IE5EI1t€lTfOfhiS5bilitYtOdiSti3lGITD1ﬁ’<hJi1diTg t1EstLda'itlia1'arssot}eB:ardw:L1l arIi33mtl'1rc1.x_:i1&1ec1&of2O1O. tbeproperd*iau'nof<::1mandkyo:r1—
isa - 85/58, p1aI”SiI1tO6aSilY1Iﬂ-1’ESt<13C1<111C1%>tS- PLIISUaT1tt0li\&L 1'avetl'ati.nfomat.irn. vha'1asl<edift:l'1ec].a$of2CX)6wC:.ﬂri tactirgqeofttefoiloidrgsuzéait
 ..YC‘JD~ﬁY: . BoaiIolof'Iruste$’1ylaiiis,1\brvi£x3d1'1asme1'1electesdto B/EirI_y<1Ii:ra1I:St1rh'1tsfeelthit begraﬁI'atl'ErediIitotl'euirxa'i1:12— liais:1's:;1\IBel$1Jrr3s:rs~’O4',-e9‘ép§l.or—
‘ ‘ H - S€fV€aS15iPU'1iV€CSitY’SF€CtOr\1’ICﬂ1'1iSl0—§/G3fb38lIC1 t1'1eysl'ioi.1ldhavebee1'1iIiforIIradvd'ier1 ”ltisiIrpoaaib1eat «jIgt1'e12—12-6,I<2ateI§tt-'O4.,~e<—
S‘IﬁiyL1X)1ataiT_StOmS82/56  ttEya'1tei:a:‘ltteIhi\ietsityt}a1:til'B tkiistjnetocbtazrdrievfatraozroa plor_in_:;t1'el4-l4,orLai.ira'reEatcn

Cala1iarviz1J1dbe1.n:hr<E:ateintl‘e  ’C5,a<p1Crirgt1'e13—13—4.
A
 An Open Letter to the Washington and Lee University
K Community: X
Don Te uila
» q We would like to announce the formation of the
I I ~ I - - F
Mariachi band night] 12-12-6 Committee, a committee composed of ﬁfteen
' students who share the common interest of retaining
\\ - - u -
MI Tlerra from Greensboro the current academic calendar. We have been cre- ,,

 

 

. MONDAYJMAY 26, 2003

U its

‘II-IF..lllN(.§-IUMl’l-ll
. STAFF EDITORIAL
W&L needs to pay attention to staff

Pay attention during the days preceding
Graduation, Mock Convention or any other
large production which W&L puts on and you
will see many hard-working university employ-
ees working to make your Washington and Lee
experience the best it can be. Now, think back
to your freshman dorm experience and the
thoughtful maintenance personnel who kept
your bathroom and hallway spick-and-span.
Next, consider all of the department secretar-
ies who will thoughtfully put together and dis-
tribute your exams come next weekend. What
do these individuals have in common? The fact
that the University mistreats them.

For example, as of our printing, the Univer-
sity has no plans to hire additional custodial staff
to maintain the pristine condition that the Com-

V‘ mons will show off during its ritzy grand open-

ing. It is our understanding that the already over-
worked dorm staff will be forced to clean the
behemoth John W. Elrod Memorial Commons.

A A force of dedicated professionals whom

students know, and in some cases, admire, main-
tains our security. Does the University acknowl-
edge their important contribution with the same

A enthusiasm as it does faculty members?

Another important point is that President
Burish’s “open door policy” refers to faculty
and students, but not to staff members, whose

4 concerns are just as important. Though we are

certain that President Burish will happily wel-
come any member of the Washington and Lee
community, the absence of the word “staff”
from his policy is evidence of a larger, seem-
ingly subconscious ignorance.

The “Campaign for the Rising Generation”

I fimds building projects, faculty salary increases

and scholarships. All are important. We wonder
how much of the $225 million will be dedicated
to the hard working staff of Washington and Lee?

.4 After all, without their efforts, our experience

would be much less clean, organized and safe.
Washington and Lee’s excellent staff does
their fine work in the background (more evi-
dence, in fact, of their superior quality). How-
ever, everyone, faculty, students and adminis-
, tration, must be careful not to take the staff for
» granted. As W&L'seeks to reinvent itself in so
many ways, let’s also focus on the backbone
of the University.

Whither Washington and Lee?

Campus certainly won’tbe the same
when we return in the Fall. The physical
changes (and a long-awaited pause in
construction) are only the beginning. As
an aside, the soon-to-graduate class of
2003 who came to one ofAmerica’s most
beautiful campuses and suffered through
four years of endless vista-marring reno-
vations and construction deserve our
sympathy.

Without question, the addition of the
University Commons will be the biggest
change in campus life. Whether or not
the on-campus bar comes to fruition, the
administration anticipates that the Com-
mons will firndamentally alter the campus
culture and foster non-Greek social ac-
tivities. Moreover, it will create a central
space for all extracunicular activities to
meet and provide office space for many
campus organizations. Ideally, students
will embrace the opportunities provided
the Commons and make the $30 million
expenditureworthwhile.

However, habits change slowly on
our tradition-steeped campus and it’s
doubtﬁ1lthattheCornmonswil1havemuch
of an effect on the classes of 2004 or 2005.
Other questions remain, as well. Who is
going to clean the Commons? Was it re-
ally necessary to install a staircase whose
steps cost a rumored $700 each? Do we
really want to have a Biology class with
three-digits worth of students? Does the
Commons really merit a $100,000 grand
opening? \V1ll anyone actually host a

jet; BROOKS / THE RING-T1'M PHI

UNCOMMON. Will the University Commons remake W&L student culture?

party in the loading dock?

Joining the Commons in the “uncer-
tainty” category, is the academic calen-
dar. The possible abolition of Spring Term
has been discussed ad nauseum both in
this paper and else-

   

and deeply felt In the Fall, Washington
and Lee will be welcoming a new Provost,
former Physics professor H. Thomas Will-
iams, an as-yet-unnamed Dean of Students
and replacements for the twelve retiring

faculty The University

where, but the issue re- RIGHT OF THE AISLE is losing hundreds of
mains undecided and yearsofexperiencewith
will weigh onthe minds  KIRWAN ‘04 these myriad retire-
of students during the merits.

summer. The primary fear is that returning
Generals will be conﬁronted with sad news
at matriculation. It is essential that the ad-
ministration keep the student body in-
formed and involved with the calendar
change process during the summer break

While the physical changes will be
the most noticeable, the changes not so

So much of the University’s social
fabric is dependent on the vote of the
faculty that the quick changeover in fac-
ulty could lead to a quick change in many
of the traditions we cherish. New fac-
ulty, much like new presidents, join the
Washington and Lee community with
preconceived notions of what a univer-

As the voices of the neophytes be-
come louder and more inﬂuential versus
the opinion of faculty members who have
been imbued with the traditions of the
school, our cherished practices and
foibles might be tossed out Although fac-
ulty come and go with regularity, Wash-
ington and Lee’s is aging quickly and an
effort must be made to inculcate incom-
ing faculty with the traditions of the Uni-
versity so that our heritage does not get
passed up as faculty members retire.

Next year, the University will be con-
fronted with many changes, both physical
updates and more fundamental personnel
changes. Students need to do their part to
preserve W&L’s institutional memory by
agitating for the preservation of the Uni-

te of the Week

“Ohmy goodness!”

~Lauia Byrne, upon discoveringthat
her boyfriendhad crashed hercar

A Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L

Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Associate Editor Jeb G Brooks
2nd Associate Editor Kyle Wass
Opinions Editor Brett TI Kirwan

’ Asst. Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson

Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Sports Editor Erin E. Julius
Asst. Sports Editor Donny Banks
Photographers Marisa Meyer

Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball

.( Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

‘ . sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-

cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
— Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to editsubmissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

, The Ring-tum P/11‘
Mailing Address: University Center

T Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

‘V Fax: (540) 462-4059

Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi. Wlu. edu

easilynoticedwillbethemostlong-lasting sity should be.‘

versityaswelcriowitaridwishittoremain.

Katie ‘howells’ goodbye

During my last traditional Sunday night Chinese dinner
withtlie Phi staff, my fortune cookie read, “Youare almostthere.”
What could be a more appropriate (or creepy) fortune to receive
during my last night as editor in chief of The Ring-tum Phi?

Threeyears onthe Phistaffhastaughtmemorethanany
journalism or geology class could attempt The late Sunday nights
(and early Monday mornings), “Phi culture”
and opportunities to get involved and learn as
much as possible about Washington and Lee
to convey information to the community are
invaluable experiences that I would never ex-
change, even for eight hours of sleep on a Sunday night

All over campus, I hear people gripe and complain each
week about the lack of decent publications on campus. Grammar
and fact emors (which are inexcusable), misspellings and space
ﬁllers are called out each week, bashed and laughed at I’ve heard
these comments each week for three years as I walk thorough the
Co-op, dining hall, sorority house, J-school and science center.
Each week, I’ve heard fellow students, professors and adrninistra-
tors alike criticizingthe hoursandhours ofhard work andtirne my
staff and I have put in to convey the bits and pieces of information
we struggle to collect and present while managing an academic
life onthe side. Sometimes, we even ﬁndtime for a social life.

But I’m not really bitter. Like I said before, I would not
trade in any part of my Phi experience. Instead, I choose
this opportunity to praise and evaluate my publication
and staffs. So many wonderful things have happened to
this publication and University during my time here. They
too, are worth mentioning alongside the speling errors.

First, many of you may have noticed a slight change in the

  

Letters to the Editor

EDITRIX IN CIIIEF

appearance of the Phi over the past few years. Anyone who
read “Cat’s Comer” or Mike Crittendon’s contributions three
years ago was certain to notice the heavy black lines, gray boxes
and heinous lack of picas per page. Today, however, white space
and thin, lighter lines grace each page, maldng them easier for
your eyes to see and read, whether you notice it or not.

Huge issues have come into play over
the past few years: the tragic loss of two stu-
dents in a car accident followed by a year-long

......... _.l§iI1El;..HQllELL,i(li.,.. struggle to establish a school-wide alcohol

policy, the search for a new University presi-
dent and establishment of a University Commons suitable and
inviting for all in the community are justthree issues the Phi staff
has tackled during my time here, and in my opinion, tackled well.

Despite Brett Kirwan’s uncanny ability to anger every group
on campus ﬁ'om minorities to women to down-home good-old
boys, no one can doubt his ability to write well and encourage
campus conversation about issues concerning our generation. I
canthinkofno grwterArts&Life editorthanKate Guy. Who
brought the classy side of W&L arts and events to campus-wide
notice through reviews, articles andpicture stories? Kateguywins.
Jeb! Brooks is an amazing photographer and the “nicest guy on
campus.”AJeb! picture is deﬁnitely worth athousand words.
Thank you, Ring-tum Phi and Washington and Lee
for a wonderful experience. I am there—~at the end, and I
leave with complete faith in the new staff. Criticize them,
show them their errors and give them a little praise every
once in a while. They do a greatjob.
(And by the way, we’ve been doing a quote of the

week for longer than I’ve been alive.)

PAGE 3

Nick dishes
advice, one last time

Rather than writing some obnoxious, all-encom-
passing, “leftist is bestest” political opus for my fi-
nal piece in The Ring-tum Phi (insert sad sigh here),
I am going to pass along some advice, dare I say
wisdom, and observations from my four years at col-
lege. They are random, without order, and meant only
to be taken for what they’re worth.

Freshmen are not aware that they know noth-
ing. Seniors are aware that there is so much they
do not yet know. The idea of life after college never
seems real at any point during the college experi-
ence. Even two weeks before graduation. Gradua-
tion comes so much faster than you could ever
realize.

College is not ‘LEW-OF CENTER
meant to be about ‘
what you study. The NICK RAMSEY 

greatest learning ex-

periences come from your friends. Your friends are
the greatest people on the face of the planet. They
will listen to you when you’re depressed or con-
fused. The will make you laugh, laugh at you, and
keep you in line.

It is a wonderful thing to have close friends that
are completely different from you. Nothing is funnier
than making jokes about friends from other countries.
Just ask my elephant-riding, Pakistani frat brothers.

Every man should have a really close gay
friend. Aside from providing a different prospec-
tive on things, they will tell you when you’re dress-
ing like crap.

During college you will either become even
closer or even more distant with your family. I was
fortunate enough for the first to occur. It is also this
time that you will realize just how much your family
loves you. Who else would ﬁnance four years of
carefree living?

Everyone should have a rainy weekend alone in
Paris. Everyone should go to Italy with their wildest
friends. It’s even better when the University foots
the bill. London will always be the coolest city, ever.
Fake British accents are always funny. Especially
when they annoy someone else in the room who
can’t do one.

Music and driving are the two most therapeutic
things in the world. Put the two of them together
and who needs a psychologist? Psychology works.
Nicotine is the devil. Tequila will have you kissing
your best friend’s girlfriend and not remembering it
the next day. Sorry about that, John.

Radiohead will always be around to reinvent
Rock and Roll. The White Stripes are here to remind
us where it came from. Coldplay is the best “sad
bastard” music in the world. It will always be the
case that far too few people know of the wonder that
is Self. Rufus Wainwright has the best voice of any
living singer. No one will ever be better than The
Beatles . . . ever.

The best movies come from pairs of brothers.
To prove this I give you the Coen and Wachowski
brothers. Star Trek is much cooler than Star Wars.
Most of the movies Stephen Spielberg makes these
days are really horrible. .

Spiderman is the greatest superhero ever. Su-
perman is too damn powerful. It’s just lame. Batman
is too disturbed. There are too many X-Men. The
rest don’t merit mentioning.

The greatest book no one has ever read is
“Einstein’s Dreams.” You are a dork for reading the
Harry Potter books. I am also that dork. One should
only read J .R.R. Tolkien if it is raining or past sun-
down. Grisham and King are overrated. Every Tom
Clancy book should be 40% shorter.

I don’t know which is worse. Not being able to
love a wonderful person who loves you or not being
loved by a wonderful person who you love. To that
first person, I still mean it when I said, “I’d be the
luckiest man alive if that did it for me.” To that sec-
ond person, may you find what you’re looking for.
Trust your heart. Even if it is wrong, you’ll under-
stand why someday.

Jesus is the greatest man who ever lived. The
meaning to his words gets lost far too oﬁen in dogma.
Karma is very real.

Knowing when to shut-up is an admirable trait.
Love to my friends leaving with me and those I leave
behind. Thanks for reading.

Spring Term essential

Dear Editor,

Here, here to Professor Hodges in his
letter to the editor defending Spring Term
(“Hodges defends Spring Term,” March
12). We were glad to see a faculty member
stepping up to publicly air his disapproval
of the calendar choices offered. As par-
ents of a freshman we are extremely disap-
pointed with the possibility of Spring
Terrn’s demise. One of the reasons we en-
couraged our son to attend W&L was to
experience this unique opportunity. After
many college visits, W&L’s uniqueness in
this offering separated itself from Vanderbilt
and Davidson and every other institution
that he seriously considered. We would
hate to see that unique offering disappear
and leave us with disappointment that this
opportunity will not be realized.

As for allowing more time for faculty
research, we were under the distinct im-
pression when we visited W&L on our col-

lege visit that the faculty’s number one pri-
ority was teaching students, not research.
That was another reason we encouraged
our son to attend. We don’t want to regret
sending our son and our money to W&L.
Sincerely, '

Anne and David Patterson

W&L not committed to faculty

Dear Editor,

Several years ago I wrote a letter to
the editor attacking Spring Term as an ef-
fort to prepare the ground for the upcom-
ing calendar debate— which turned out to
be only the first of who knows how many
such exercises. At the time I thought it best
to make my point in a deliberately light and
comic style, but the students didn’t seem
to want to get the joke—- not a joking mat-
ter, I suppose, mockery at W&L being de-
served for minorities— so this time I will
answer the letter of last week in as bland
and matter-of-fact a manner as possible. I

still hold to my essential point of the former
letter, namely, that for all the value of Spring
Term—— and I admit it permits many inter-
esting and valuable courses, many memo-
rable and once-in-a-lifetime experiences-
the fundamental claim that a typical Spring
Term course should be considered the
equivalent in terms of credit as typical Fall
or Winter course is a fraud.

It seems to me that Spring Term has
always really functioned as W&L’s way of
getting for cheap and by sleight-of—hand the
kind of course variety that other less honor-
able institutions (oops there goes my lack
of irony) get the hard way-~ by employing
a proportionally larger number of liberal arts
faculty— and that Spring Term has numer-
ous hidden costs that ultimately make it a
thing to be done away with. That is what I
believe—that is my principled position—
though it’s complicated by my full under-
standing that some others honestly do not
believe as I do, and that for these there is a
principled position in support of Spring Term.

Nonetheless the whole matter is fur-
ther complicated by my self-interest, which
this time around makes 12-12-6 darn ap-
pealing to me and to many other critics of
Spring Term. For the students should un-
derstand that as things stand now the pro-
posal to keep Spring term with a faculty
load of 6 coursesrepresents a real reduc-
tion of my teaching load—— formerly 7
courses—-. whereas the proposal for a two
14-week semester system with a 6 course
load actually means a return to the same
amount of teaching as we had under the
old 7 courses over 12- 12-6. I hope you all
see—— along with class size, much the most
reliable measure of load is contact hours,
that is, hours in the classroom along with
the prepping for that time. Now, the old
model of 7 courses times 12 weeks times 3
hours/week comes out to exactly the same
amount of teaching as the proposed 6
courses times 14 weeks times 3 hours/week.

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

 

LETTERS, FROM PAGE 3

Therefore the only way I and other faculty

members get a reduction is if the college

goestothe 6 courses overtlre 12-12-6 cal-

endar. Thus my dilernrna—— my principles
say go for the 14 week model; my self-

interest says please give me a reduction.

It’s a very cruel thing to do a person——
evenifheorshe isnotboundbyacode of
honor— and I will state that I don’t appre-

ciate the administration and trustees tying
me into such knots. Fortunately, I don’t
thinkI’llactuallybeforcedto make sucha
Solomonic decision— the powers that be
are goingto make the decision for me. The
realproblemisthatlexpecttheywillchoose
the6over l4—14—andthendeclarethey’ve
given all us professors a reduction. You
know,6inchesislessthan7centimeters——
atleastthatseemstobetheirview.AndI’m
not being sarcastic.

And why should I or any other pro-
fessors get a reduction? Let me try to ex-
plain When I was interviewed for the job
at W&L, the then Dean Elrod, knowing
ﬁommyrwimethatIwasanAmherstCol—
lege graduate, said point blank that W&L
was not going to be a “research college”
like Amherst. What he meant was that
places like Amherst had at the time (and
still do) teaching loads of 4 courses over
two 14-week semesters—andthereforere-
quiredmuchmore scholarly work frorntheir
professors than W&L with its stronger em-
phasis on evaluating faculty in terms of
teaching. (Note the precision here:
Amherst values teaching undergraduates
as much as W&L—— it’s just that Amherst
hires more faculty per students to do that
teaching and thus expects more scholar-
ship ﬁom its professors. W&L squeezes
more teaching out of proportionally fewer
faculty, and lets us off when it comes to
scholarship.) Still W&L’s model was at the
time a ﬁne and largely competitive one;
Amherst was and remains one of very few
liberal arts colleges pursuing such a model;
and W&L’s offer was certainly one of the
bestarnong elite small colleges. But make
no mistake about it——I would have taken a
job at an Amherst over a W&L without
blinkingan eye. Many students might have
good reasons for preferring W&L—- stu-
dents have no direct interest in faculty be-
ing active scholars. But few faculty can be
expected to make the same choice— our
interests lie in being able to teach and do
scholarship. The big problem for W&L is
thatoverthepasttenyears since I’ve been
here many of the teaching colleges it di-
rectly competes with have reduced their
teaching loadsr— and where will W&L be
if it dom not follow suit? In short, Amherst
has long been a much better job for a pro-
spective faculty member—— for any self-
respecting professor who wants both to
have the chance of teaching excellent stu-
dents in small classes (provided by both
Amherst and W&L), and also wants the
chance to vigorously pursue his or her
scholarly interests (provided much more
generously byArnherstthanW&L). Thus,
in years past, W&L could not really com-
pete with places like Amherst for profes-
sors— but here’s the bad news—- now it
looks like it won’t even be competing with
Davidson, with Colby, with Wake Forest,

with Kenyon
Now just recall the crucial facts of
class size and contact hours. These

schools and many others are just as good
as W&L on class size (and their students
are great too), but they have all recently
moved from six to ﬁve course loads over
14-14 week terms— a reduction of 1/6;
W&L tried to keep up by moving from 7 to
6 course loads over 12-12-6—areduction
of 1/7 (falling a bit behind, but not bad);
now it looks like it will move to 6 courses
over 14—14—— ataking back ofthe 1/7 re-
duction and resulting in a situation inwhich
ajobatW&L isclearly less appealingthan
one at Davidson, Colby, or Kenyon. You
see—- we’ve never really competed with
anArnherst for faculty, but now we won’t
even be competing with schools that we
like to think of as equals or even inferiors.
Professor Hodges’s weighing in the bal-
ance of teaching vs. scholarship and his
defense ofW&L’s former solution misses
the point— the proper balance is theoreti-
cal—- a game for debating clubs, cocktail
parties, and trustee meetings; the real fact
of the matter gets decided by how our com-
petitors behave. What’s the job offer?
When candidates scrutinize the factsthey’ll
see that W&L’s students are excellent like
those of comparable schools ; that its class
sizes are equivalent; that its pay is com-
petitive; butthat it asks for more time in the
class room— and thus limitstheir abilityto
succeed in scholarship. We used to be
pretty much the sanre as lots of other elite
srnallcolleges,butnowitlooks likewe’llbe
clearly behind them in this key criterion of
faculty recn1itment— and it is akey, let me
tell you. In short, Davidson or Colby and
schools like them will now be setting the
standard for the proper balance of teach-
ing and scholarship in elite teaching col-
leges—- just as Amherst does for elite re-
search colleges—— but W&L will fall be
hind both sets into a category of its own
And why is this happening? W&L,
we’re told, has done so much building (in-
cluding its own version of the Chunnel
that makes the percentage of its GNP that
France put into the thing look, well,
miniscule) that, despite its wealth, it can-
not alford to keep up with its former rivals.
But there is no end in sight to the build-
irrg— so I ﬁnd myselfunable to credit the
claims of how we’re so overburdened by
overbuilding. Furthermore W&L, both in
absolute tenns and in endowment per stu-
dent, is much much wealthierthan many of
its rivals who are honoring their 1/6 reduc-
tion, even as W&L contemplates rescind-
ing its 1/7 reduction. I keep mentioning
Colby because I’m ﬁom Maine— where
Colby’s located. I grew up having a high
opinion of that college, and when W&L
showed interest in me— never having
heard of this place—- I carefully read 
about it, but also closely compared it to
places I knew. It was less wealthy and lower
ranked than Bowdoin or Amherst, but
higher ranked and wealthier than Colby-
to me that made it a very ﬁne institution
indeed, as it most certainly is. Now whenl
was checking the facts in 1993, Colby was
rated as having an endowment of about 60
million, W&L an endowment of about 1 10
million. Last year’s ﬁgures showed Colby
corninginatabout240millionar1dW&Lat
740 million. Thus over the past ten years
Colby increased its endowment by about
4X, whereas W&L, starting out ahead al-
ready, increased its endowment by over
6X. Still Colby is keeping up with its com-
petitors by reducing the teaching load, and

  
 

   

 

W&L plans to abandon its reduction.
What’s going on?

Thefact,ofcourse, isthatW&Lhasa
differentsetofprioritiesﬁommany ofits
rivalliberalartscolleges—ithasasrnallbut
very generously ﬁrnded law school and a
whole host of very expensive pre-profes-
sional programs that make it quite distinc-
tive,ar1dthen,atthetailer1dofthelist, ithm
an expensive liberal arts program. Unfortu-
nately, the cost of being different is that
W&Lwillnowno longertrytckeepup
even with much poorer liberal arts col-
leges— go check out Kenyon’s endow-
ment— in its core mission, but its lowest
priority.Isthisagoodstrategy?Wecanall
judge forourselvesThesimplepointI would
liketostressinanswerto lastweek’sletteris
that the teaching vs. scholarship balance is
atheoretical side issue—-thereal question
isthepracticalrealityofthewaythisinstitu
tionvalues itscoreproject ofbeingaliberal
artscollege inrelationto itscomrnitmentto
those features that make it distinctive. We
now ﬁnd ourselves in the odd position of
beingfarricherthanmanyofourrival liberal
arts colleges— the schools we’re ranked
against and compete directly with— but of
fallingshortoftheminthesupportofliberal
arts because of our insistence upon being
very generous with what makes us differ-
ent. That’s W&L’s strategy: let’s hope it
works. Butintheend, whetheritworks or
not, itinevitably meanswe’llnowbegintc
lose out consistently whenever we com-
peteforfaculty~—thatis,forgoodfaculty
whowanttobeataliberalartscollegeto
begin with—- with places on the order of
Davidson, Colby,andKer1yorLMaybewe’ll
makeupforsuchmarginallossesbyour
successes in our areas ofdifference and
 it’sjustthatthose won’tbe in
the liberal arts.

Finally, I tl1inkI’ve done such a good
job atmaintainingamatter-of-facttonethat
I’d like to conclude by allowing myselfa
concluding burst of half-cornic ranting-
though don’t think I don’t still mean what
I say. Whatl ﬁnd ultimately damning about
this situation is that in the poor little state
ofMaine (population only about 1 million,
largest city 80,000) there is not only now
Colby, but Bates and Bowdoin too, that
have deeper commitments to the liberal arts
and are, in fact, better liberal arts colleges
than W&L. Little Maine has three better
colleges than a school widely considered
one of the two best in the entire South.
And remember those three schools are
pinned into a comer by awhole phalanx of
determinedrivalsontheorderofDartmouth
and Middlebury, Wellesley and Smith, and,
of course, the redoubtable Little Three of
Amherst,Williams,andWesleyan Maine’s
colleges struggle mightily for ﬁne students
and essential capital against this high or-
der of regional competition and yet still
manage to outdo W&L in their support of
the liberal arts. To me there’s atellingjudg-
ment on the South’s culture and civiliza-
tion, on its dedication to higher learning
andthe life ofthe mind, inthisdamning
fact.AndlforoneamremindedthatJoshua
Lawrence Chamberlain of the 20th Maine
was the true hero and victor of
Gettysburg—— and that he went on to be-
come President of Bowdoin College after
the Civil War, while the loser came here.
Sincerely,
EdwardAdams
Associate Professor of English

Don’t fear calendar change

Dear Editor,

We have observed the recent
discussion over the issue of calendar
change with growing frustration. Al-
most every editorial and letter that has
been published on the topic has re-
peated a few misguided fears within a
rhetorical stance that rejects the sug-
gestion of change. The vocal oppo-
nents of calendar change seem oblivi-
ous to the difﬁculties presented by
the current system, and they have
failed to thoughtfully consider the
relative strength of various propos-
als. We are writing in order to correct
mistakes already made and to point
towards more fruitful charmels for fu-
ture discussion.

We agree that the Spring Term
currently plays an important role in
the life of our university, and we also
are reluctant to change a good thing.
The Spring Term adds a richness to
the academic life of Washington and
Lee by promoting a broad and deep
curriculum. Furthermore, the Spring
Term is associated with a rich social
life and many of the most enjoyable
times of the academic year. Yet al-
though these advantages might be di-
minished by a shorter calendar, we be-
lieve that they may be substantially
incorporated within a new system, and
there are compelling reasons to con-
sider such a change.

The report of the Advisory Com-
mittee and subsequent discussions
have made clear that there is no easy
solution to this question. Given the
teaching load reduction decided in
2001, significant resources would
have to be devoted to the hiring of
new adjunct or permanent faculty in
order to maintain the level of teach-
ing under the current calendar. The
Board of Trustees has judged that
such a massive expenditure would be
very difﬁcult, and so the prospect of
change is inescapable. Although our
current calendar has many strengths,
it would be foolish to ignore the difﬁ-
cult facts of the matter. Even if the
calendar were to remain the same, the
circumstances require a creative so-
lution, and a narrow-minded attach-
ment to the status quo will only im-
pair the discussion.

Contrary to those who claim
that the purpose of calendar change
is to attenuate W&L’s distinctive-
ness, it is clear that this issue has
arisen from an explicit concern for
the core values of our university. In
order to maintain academic excel-
lence (through an ability to attract
the best faculty), a teaching load re-
duction was necessary, and this has
caused us to think of changing our
calendar. W&L exists for the pro-
motion of free thought and critical
inquiry; such a spirit of exploration
should make us open to the possi-
bility that change may be positive.
Furthermore, since all that is at is-
sue is a calendar which is less than
40 years old, nothing essential to
W&L is in danger. Those who speak
of tradition ought to have the whole
of W&L’s 254 year history in view,

for the necessity of change stems
from this very tradition.

President Burish has presented
this matter with admirable clarity, and
he has acted with considerable con-
cern for W&L’s fine history. He has
displayed a laudable desire to promote
dialogue about a decision which is
clearly not his own to make. He has
done much to solicit and respond re-
spectfully to student and alumni opin-
ions through both official and unofﬁ-
cial charmels, and he has thus won our
trust. His success at promoting dis-
cussion is perhaps most clearly indi-
cated by the unfair criticism he has re-
ceived, which was only made possible
by his frank openness. He has dis-
played wisdom and grace in his role as
a guide of public discussion, and for
all his fine efforts President Burish de-
serves our support and respect.

Sadly, most publicly expressed A

opinions on the matter far short of the
president’s excellent example. The
general incomprehension displayed
by students and alumni at the pros-
pect of change indicates a careless-
ness bordering on ill will, and their
absurd accusations have made con-
structive discussion nearly impos-
sible. Yet we have reason to believe
that the vocal opponents of change
are outnumbered by those who (in the
spirit of our fine tradition) value criti-
cal thinking and dialogue.

Those who fear change are the
true opponents of W&L’s ﬁne tradi-
tion, but there are many who desire to
continue the upward progress that has
characterized our history. Coeducation,
integration, and now the Spring Term
have been causes for division, but we
believe that (as with the ﬁrst two) the
conclusion of this issue will bring our
community together in a deeper un-
derstanding of our identity. We believe
that the beneﬁts of our beloved Spring
Term may be largely present in a re-
vised system, and so we are open to
the possibility of change. President
Burish has proven his ability to lead
W&L forward in a spirit which is true
to our past, and we believe that the
careful discussion he is leading will re-
sult in a solution which only strength-
ens our university.

The season of Spring will endure
every calendar, and the distinctive ex-
cellence of Washington and Lee is not
endangered by the prospect of change.
Our tradition has survived many such
changes already, and it will emerge
from this one even stronger. Through
understanding and dialogue, such dif-
ficult issues can become the occasion
for our community to grow together in
a deeper understanding of what makes
W&L special. For this purpose, care-
ﬁll introspection of our unquestioned
assumptions is a prerequisite to the
thoughtﬁrl discussion that will bring
us together. This is the way to be true
to tradition, and we are committed to
it.

Sincerely,

David Newheiser, ‘ 03
Julie Fitzer, ‘03

Wes Bell, ‘05

Tallie Jamison ‘05
Jon Cochran, ‘06

Massage Thetwy by

Kelly Harris, BA,

(540) 264-0063  

 

MONDAY, Mn 20, 2005 '

The Ring-tum Phi

Editorial Board
2003-2004

    

jeb Brooks
Editor in Chief

 

Kyle Wass
Associate Editor

 

Erin Julius
News

 

Caley Anderson
Opinions

 

Megan Morgan
Arts & Life

 

Thomas Worthy
Business Manager

 

 

Alvin-Dennis

102 W. Washington Street
463-5383

CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2003

Lacoste Madras Pants & Shorts
Vineyard Vines ’I‘ies Bass
Woolrich Johnston & Murphy
Tuxedo Sales & Rentals

W&L Belts, Ties, Sandals, Hats, Dog Collars

Visa

Master Card

Student Charge

Since 1963 Alvin Carter, Owner

 

CATHERINE C. GUY
ARIS&LIFE EDITOR
FMAi1;GLY(@wLUE)U

MONDAY, MAY 26, 2003

Art is awesome

A painting says much about its creator. It portrays how
heperceives the world aswellashowhismindrecreatesreality
in the midst of his memory. Some people recreate the world
using lots of colors and cartoon ﬁgures, some recreate it as a
blur or ablink while others remember every single detail, down
to the exact shape of a model’s eyebrow. Everyone sees the
world differently, hence the diversity in artwork.

The thesis exhibit currently in DuPont Hall
exempliﬁes the colorful perspectives of the six senior art
majors: Betsy Ely, Connor Kirsch, Evan Orernland, Austin
Fisher, Liza Tucker and Erin Carter. Some of the works
recreate the function of the canvas frame, whereas some
others reﬂect more traditional subject matter, and some
represent other items and ideas altogether. But despite
the subject matter or the form of representation, each is
unique and each artist has developed his/her own style.

I highly recommend a walk through the exhibit. These
are the masterpieces of the senior majors. The six of them
have fulﬁlled their credits, taken more studio art classes
than most of us will ever take in our lives, and dedicated
more time to these works than I could ever imagine. These
are their best works of art, the best of the best in the art
department, and they are on display to the public.

The works say much about the individual artists’
perspectives and personalities, as well as their creativity and
imaginations. I found in every painting a sense of aestheticism
and meaning, particularly in some more than others. However,
I will not write my personal thoughts and reﬂections on that
subject inthis article,
with the hope that

you will visit the ON THE ARTS
exhibitforyourself. It i c
wmbemdjsplayumﬂ AURA LEIGH BIRDWELL 03

June 5. Each work is
unique and expressive of the artist’s own style and reﬂect the
talent and skill of the six artists.

I found it quite appropriate to write about the senior
art theses as my ﬁnal article. Yet at the same time, since
this is my final article, I’d like to share some last thoughts
of my own with you. I’ve always thought that the
profession of an art critic would be a fun job: viewing
exhibits and stating one’s thoughts, talking with the
artists, writing books and articles on what constitutes a
work of art, traveling to museums around the world,
attending the parties of the bourgeois, drinking lots of
wine. Art critics, or in fact any critic in general, have (or
would appear to have) an amazingly easy job and yet, at
the same time, they have in their possession a great and
undeniable power. With one clench of their teeth, they
can shatter an artist’s hopes and destroy the canvas
beneath the creation; but at the same time, with one
painted word of appraisal, an aspiring artist’s lifelong
dream to create a work of art becomes a reality.

For these past six months, I went to productions,
exhibits, concerts, and attended nearly every artistic event
held at this university. I watched and listened, reﬂected,
and wrote. Minus the bourgeois parties, I was an art critic
and I must admit, I loved it. I loved writing my thoughts
and reﬂections, talking with the artists about their artwork,
etc. But most of all, I loved attending the performances
and exhibits. I loved being a spectator. I have always
attended concerts, here and there, at Lenfest, but after
deciding to write this column, I made it a necessary point
to attend as many artistic events as possible.

For the spectator, art is a subjective experience. Art
affects different people in different ways, and what
constitutes a work of art as beautiful for some may not do
so for others. That is why I think the profession of art critic,
as one with the power to say what constitutes a work of art
or to decide what is beautiful, is an impossible job.

In deciding to write this column, my aim was not in
any way to deﬁne a work of art or claim to know what is
beautiﬁrl, or provide some theory of art. Rather, with this
colunm I hoped to present to the public, especially for

' those who were unable to attend an artistic event at

W&L, a glimpse into the beauty that I found in the works.
I wanted to create an appreciation for the artists,
especially the student artists, and highlight their artistic
talents. My writings were a reﬂection of my personal
thoughts of the arts and I shared those aspects that
struck me as wonderful. And indeed, I discovered so
much beauty and brilliance, especially from the student
artists, that my own subjective experience was nothing
short of amazement. So for those who made these
columns possible, I’d like to say thank you. Your works
of art created a meaning for me that, though I attempted
to place in words, I will never be able to explain.

As an art critic, I hope that I have provided for you
a canvas on which to paint your own words so that next
year, though I will not be here to paint my own words,
you will attend an artistic event every now and then and
discover for yourself a certain brilliance, a kind of beauty,
behind the artistic productions held at W&L.

‘Top Girls’ opens

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ASSISTANT ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

“Top Girls”, a play written by Caryl Churchill and
directed by Shemina Keshvani Llloyd, opened here on
Friday, May 23rd. The play examines the problems of
women as they break through the glass ceiling in the
business world.

The play opens in a restaurant in 1980 London
where the main character is celebrating her promotion.
She is joined by a host of famous women from
throughout the centuries including Isabella Bird, a
Englishwoman from the nineteenth century who

. traveledextensively and chronicled those travels, Lady

Nijo an Emperor’s courtesan and later a Buddist nun in
the thirteenth century who traveled on foot across
Japan and wrote of her life, Dull Gret who was painted
by Brueghel in an apron leading a host of women

SEE GIRLS, PAGE 6

H191. 'iN(;§—TU'lt=lI)}*

 

  

its

LIFE

PAGE 5

The Absolute Fratlord shares his year in review

Another year is over.

In a week, we will all be partying and
vacationing, as Professor Porter says, in Auckland
or Sydney or Tahiti or at some other exotic South
Seas location.

The seniors will have to stay an extra week as
they contemplate their fast—approaching
unemployment and their option to enroll in the
University of Patagonia.

But before we leave, in the Phi’s ﬁnal issue of the
year, I will use this sounding board to deal out the Frat
Lord’s year-end awards:

The “Unsung General other than Meriggi”
Award: Mike Hoover

Hoover was the Men’s Intramural
Director this year, a job that requires
ridiculous amounts of time and one that probably doesn’t
get the praise it deserves.

When he’s not leading Sig Ep to victory in Ping Pong,
Volleyball, and Basketball, he has to organize every
intramural event so that every fraternity can engage in
glorious competition.

The “W&L Mr. Congeniality”Award: Jefferson Gillespie
Brooks

This was a hotly contested award battle, since
our school is rife with those sociable genteel
Southern-types who are known for their
conversations and willingness to be outgoing.
Though Thomas Worthy almost got the nod, the Frat

    

Lord chose Jeb! Brooks at the last minute. In addition
to his work with the Phi and his love for community
service, Jeb succeeds at being generally the nicest
person on the planet.

The “In Over My Head”Award: Tom Burish

President Burish’s first lap was a tough one.

All the Spring Term issues remain unresolved, but
they will probably determine what students think
about Burish for years to come. Time will tell if
Burish can handle the heat when tempers ﬂare in
Lex Vegas.

The “Coolest W&L Person Not

ABSOLUTE FRATLORD Currently Enrolled at W&L” Award:
.........IlM..§MlIHf04

Lucy Frick
The lovely Lucy just came back to
celebrate her 21st at the Palms with
Italian diva (and her former roommate) Hilary Henry,
and it reminded me how cool she is and how much
more drab this place is without her. If you are one
of the people fortunate enough to know her, you’ll
agree with me.
The “Coolest W&L Person Who Re-Enrolled to W&L”
Award: Chris Tully
The Puerto-Rican Teddy Bear returned to Lex
Vegas this year to appease all his fans. He didn’t
disappoint. The Lodge immediately tripled in musical
fratty coolness upon his return, and God knows he will
continue to provide entertainment for us all for years to
come.

The “Guaranteed to Brighten Your Day” Award: Kate
Muscalino

Kate’s personality has no rival. She single-
handedly makes the Science Center the coolest place
to study - though not much actual studying ever goes
on there. She always seems to be on the Hill, which is
a blessing, since she’s super-cool and will inevitably
make you smile.
The “No One is Cooler than Allegro” Award: Justin
Allegro I

This one speaks for itself.
The “Random PIKA Brother Awar ” Award: Charlie
Clarke

He’s cool. He plays Ultimate Frisbee. I can’t
pronounce his middle name. Now if only he regrew
that mountain man beard he had earlier in the school
year.
The “Brett T‘. Kirwan Self-GIon'fication”Award: Tim 7.‘
Smith

Every now and again, I like to give myself credit for
doing something well. There are always a few folks
who love to give people ﬂak for blatently patting
themselves on the back. This award is especially for
them.

It’s been a long, tough year, and as always it will be a
short, relaxing summer.

Until next year, I’ll leave you all wondering how it is
that someone was silly enough to give me a newspaper
column. Iknowl am.

Senior reﬂeets on his four unforgettable years

BY NEAL WILLETS
(j0\'TRIBL'TIN(3 EDITOR"

Every year there is some senior,
waxing nostalgic who tries to tell you
everything about W&L that is great,
good, and grand. This year, here’s some
advice from a senior who’s both loved
and hated the school, often at the same,
but will be graduating June 5 after a four
year stint at this school that has deﬁnitely
been the four greatest years of my life.
Without further adieu (in no specific
order)...

The Top TenThings TO D0 in your 4 years
at W&L:

1. Go abroad. Anywhere, to study
anything. The best thing you can do
for yourself is to leave for a semester,
a year, or evenjust a Spring Term. You
come back with a new found love and
appreciation for the school, even if
you were its biggest fan before you
left, coming back you will love it even
more.

2. Go to Buffalo Creek, but beware the
barbed wire.

3. Spend as much time in the sun,
whether at Goshen or on the front lawn as
possible. After winter term, EVERYONE
needs some sun.

4. Even if you aren’t the fratty type, go
to at least one frat party a semester. If you
are the fratty type, then party as much as
possible.

5. Streak the Colonnade, at least once,
if not once a year.

6. Go to LeeHi aﬁer 2a.m., at least once
a year.

7.Do a random road trip,
spontaneously, to at least one or two states
away. It’ll be the best weekend of your
college career. (I highly recommend Ohio/
Kentucky personally, not to far of a drive,
but still a road trip)

8. Meet people. Throw yourself out
into the public arena. You’ll very rarely be
disappointed with the folks that admissions
deem worthy to join us.

9. Go see the plays at Lenfest. It’s not
Broadway, but it’s not half bad either.

I0. Take at least one class in each
building on campus before you graduate.
Somehow, I’m graduating without ever
having set foot in the C-School or DuPont,
and never took a J-School or Philosophy
class.

Top Ten Things NOT TO D0 in your 4 years
at W&L:

1. Don’t double major. It’s not worth
the extra time. Pick one, and do it. Then
take the extra time to take a bunch of classes
that you are really interested in. All the
people that have jobs for next year only
have one major anyway, so why do the extra
work, only to have to move back in with
your parents?

2. Don’t ever think your social circle is
complete and that you don’t need anymore
friends, or that the friend you have one year

will be your bosom buddy all four years
here. People change as quickly as the
winds. You’ll always have some constant
friends, but often a large part of your social
group will change year to year and semester
to semester.

3. Don’t streak the Colonnade before
1a.m., or even really before 2a.m., unless
you’re really brave. A

4. Don’t ever belittle any of the campus
publications. They ALL work REALLY hard
to bring you the things that you so love to
complain about. The Calyx, Phi and
Trident are all quality publications that have
students working their butts off, for little to
no respect or reward.

5. Don’t ever think that things are
perfect as they are. Something or
someone will come along and try and
change them, and try as you might,
something are totally out of our hands,
and we have to grin and bear it, no matter
how much we may hate the situation. Be
adaptable, and ﬂexible, and willing to
grow. This school wouldn’t have lasted
254 years if it wasn’t willing to change
occasionally.

6. Don’t transfer out of W&L unless
you are really absolutely, totally and
utterly miserable. The school really
redeems itself for those of you with
issues. Especially senior year. There is
nothing better than being a senior at this
school.

7. Don’t think that the only place you

can go in town to drink is the Palms. The
Southern Inn, while a little pricier, is much
nicer, more intimate, quieter, and a lot less
smoky.

8. If you can at all help it, never let
yourself be sent to Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, that is, if you want to come out
alive.

9. Don’t get arrested. Lex Police don’t
like us very much, and will take ANY
excuse they can get to try and haul you
off to jail.

10. Don’t ever be intolerant, of
anything, or anyone. Intolerance is
ignorance, and we’re all way too intelligent
to sink to that level. On some level, and in
some way, there is some good in everyone
and in any situation.

Take this with a grain of salt, or cut
it out and carry along in your wallet like
it’s the Bible. You may or may not agree
whole-heartedly with me on one or many
of these issues. Everyone’s experience
in college is different and unique. There
have been rough times, and fantastic
times in my four years. Thank you to
the people who made the fantastic times
so great, and to the people who helped
me through the rough spots. Any
institution is no better than the people
that make it up, and on the whole, the
people that make up W&L are a pretty
great bunch.

Thanks for a Roller Coaster 4-years,
W&L, I’ll send postcards from Hawaii.

W&L students set out to conquer the world this summer

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
SENIOR STAFI’ \\7RITER

Summer is approaching fast. There are two weeks
left of spring term. The weather is getting warmer—
well, maybe not. The seniors are graduating. The
freshmen aren’t babies any more and there is one more
question. What is in store for the summer? Will W&L
students lounge on the beach, take up jobs, take
class, travel, party? Well, from speaking with a few of
them, we learn they are doing it all. The majority of
the student body plans to take on part-time jobs or
intern with a company, while others plan on
volunteering at a camp or organization, or in the words
of freshman Melissa Draggett “Sit around doing
nothing.” But of course, all these busy students will
leave enough time for travel and friends. While some
have big plans others are keeping it simple, I now
provide you will a glimpse of the futures of your
fellow class—mates:

The workers:

Kate Talbert, a junior, looks forward to a very
rewarding summer. She is going to be a teaching intern
at Choate Rosemary Hall in Connecticut. In addition to
teaching, she will be living with middle schoolers, good
old middle schoolers. She states, “It’s going to be a
blast, I know”

Freshman Virginia Baird also looks forward to an
enriching summer: She will be going back home to
Houston, TX and working with her mom. She will also
take a drawing class with her little brother and
hopefully go to Charleston, the home of her best
friend. .

Freshman Kendall Murphy will take on the camp
situation. She will be working as a counselor at Camp
Horizons in Harrisonburg, Va. this summer teaching
performing arts.

Sophomore Kristin Crawford, will be working at Camp
Starﬁsh. Crawford explains, “It’s a camp in Cape Cod for
kids with psychological disorders, behavioral and
emotional”. I

Freshman Collier Pace is also working (on ﬁnding
ladies) this summer: He explains ‘.‘I’m going to be a lifeguard
all summer in Orlando. I’ll be at a country club surrounded

by hot rich girls.” ,

Freshman Julie Anderson also plans to work this
summer. But unlike Collier she will not be at a country
club. She, in contrast, will be working with nature on a
campaign to save the environment. The people of
Pennsylvania will appreciate her eﬂbrts, as Anderson’s
campaign is for the improvement of conditions in
Philadelphia.

The travelers:

Sophomore Alex Schaerrer has an interesting
summer planned for her and it all starts on June 7: “I
am ﬂying out with my family to Malta, which is a little
island just under Sicily in the middle of the
Mediterranean. My mom is from there, so we always
go back and visit our family...basically lots of good
food, sun and beaches. After that I am going to be in
Switzerland (my home) for two weeks, just hiking
around the Alps. After that I am spending two weeks
in Montana on our ranch...after that will likely be
another extremely outdoorsy Montana stay, I am
heading to Texas for the rest of the summer to hang
out with my best friend.” Alex explained that she is
excited to go to Texas because she has never been to
most of the states.

Freshman Chris Applewhite will be heading to New
Mexico in order to hike for ten days. Applewhite has
been taking routine visits to the Fitness Center to
prepare for the exciting adventure, as well as
volunteering for the Fitness Challenge this weekend.

The everything crew: traveling, interning and
ﬁiends:

Sophomore Michael Diverio clearly falls under this
category. He is renting NYU housing in Washington
Square, New York, and taking a Lab Science. He will
also be interning and working as a waiter in Times Square
until early August. On the weekends he will be going
up to his house on Cape Cod and will also rent a house
in the Hamptons in mid-august with some friends.

Cross Country freshman star Molly Drake will also

be spending a lot of time in New York. Yet, unlike

Devario she will spend her time seeing Broadway
shows, and shopping. After she gets her ﬁll of the
“Big Apple” she will return home to Florida to work at
a law ﬁrm and retail store.

Freshman Melissa Clarke will spend a lot of time

‘catching up with her friends at home in New Jersey. She

will be going to the beach, taking a road trip to Maine,
going to a lot of concerts and probably getting a job. As
for the job, if she does not ﬁnd occupation at a law ﬁrm
she will waitress at “one of the touristy seafood
restaurants” at home.

The volunteer:

Vishal Sapra, a freshman has much volunteering in
his future. He is the leader of the infamous Teen Freedom
Corps. He will be doing joint-ventures with both MTV
and Seeds of Peace, a non-proﬁt, non-political organization
dedicated to preparing teenagers from areas of conﬂict
with the leadership skills required to promote coexistence
and peace. He wishes he could tell you more but “the
details of the initiatives are top-secret, my apologies.”

He also claims he will be at his shore house in Avalon,
N.J. and will be in London in the beginning of July visiting
friends. Mid-July he will attend the World Future Society
meeting in San Francisco, Cal. to discuss how social and
technological changes affect our future. Topics to be
discussed include futures, environment, learning and
education, globalization, values, economics, governance,
science and technology, society, health, busines and
more. Along with all this, he hopes to get his pilots
license and construct “a giant straw that will enable me
to drink heavily with minimal effort.”

The academic:

Sophomore Patrick Hasting hopes to accomplish a,
lot this summer. He will be living and working at
Shakespeare and Co. bookstore on the left bank in Paris.
At the same time, he will be writing an independent study
on the site’s signiﬁcance to the modernist literary
movement.

The intem:

Sophomore Caitlan Hagan has a wonderful
internship opportunity lined up for her. She will be
working in New York for “Good Morning America”.
Hagan is so excited to be working with such a well
established company and hopes to make the best out
of her experience.

Maybe some of these amazing things students are
doing, working on, or volunteering for can give you some
insight into what you may want to do in future summers.

 

 

 

[lltlb (X Lirh     ~",~«    "
Taste ‘Trip’           . »

BY LAURA LEIGH BIRDWELL
SENIOR sT.\I~‘I' WRITER
Sometimes it’s a little melancholic.
Sometimes it makes me think.

Sometimes I listen to it when I need
some “down time” to myself. Sometimes

it makes me smile just to be alive. But
one thing’s for certain: for two weeks
now, it has remained in my CD player, '
waking me up, playing when I get ready

to go out, or filling the room as I type. It

has been in my CD player for two weeks
now and for anything to remainin my
CD player for more than alday says a
lot about the quality of the album.

It’s “A Taste” by Trip: Alex Wilkins,

Jordan Wolﬁ‘, Laurence Eaton, Brandon
Waddell, and Connor Kirsch (and help
from Josh “Knuckles” Harvey on keys/
organ). I wrote about the band earlier in

the year. They were “Alex Vlrilkjns and _ I H “USA \ 9 ' '1£’""'
FI.iendS,»1be1-leve_ Imust admit; I like BURN, BABY BURN: Washington and Lee students enjoy burning wood and furniture at one of the many fraternity bonfires at Zollman’s.

Trip much better, giys.

The album is primarily Alex
Wilkins, who wrote seven out of the
eight tracks. He’s the lead singer and
“ringleader” of Trip. The songs
themselves seem to be a combination
of every cover song they perform, yet
at the same time, Wilkins has definitely
discovered his own, unique style. And
I must say it’s quite beautiful.

\Vilkins has a sublime voice. It’s
smooth and he sings with such ease and
grace that I can’t help but wonder whether
it is possible to sing beautifully if you are
not naturally talented. He is
overwhelmingly talented. Singing
comes so easily for him. Those of you
who have seen him perform know what
I mean. He sings as though that is what
he is meant to do in life.

“A Taste” has eight songs. They
aren’t ‘angry’ like 311, nor are they
depressing like Radiohead. They’re
songs about life, good and bad.

And of course, I cannot mention the
album without saying a world about the
infamous “Kappa Song,” the only song
not composed by Wilkins. All genius is

attributed to Jordan Wolff for this one. ,  V‘ i H , . . . ‘
What to say about this song, I’m not M:\RlAME\'E }1eRir1g-tm /21‘
really sure. Just listen for yourself and , . H FUN IN THE SUN: Three W&L students lounge on one of the couches brought out for the Buffalo Creek bonﬁres.
thinkofthe Lodge, home toalot ofreally _ W M /TW<«IW”II'

great guys and W &L in general. It has a DOWN BYTI-IE RIVER: Students relax in the river on Saturday afternoon. V

nice twist and, well, if you haven’t heard
it yet, you’ 11 find it’s quite entertaining.
So, for ataste of Trip, buy the album.
Wilkins is superb, and the band is truly
brilliant Save it for a rainy day Spring Term
(we’ve had our share), snuggle under the
covers, and listen. It’s a good buy.

I GIRLS, FROM PAGE 5

charging thorugh hell and ﬁghting
devils, Pope Joan a woman who
disguised as a man was Pope between
854 and 856 A.D. and Patient Griselda
whose obedience to her husband is the
subject of a story by Petrach, Boccaccio
and Chaucer. As the women begin to
drink Frascati wine, famous for the wild
things that happen when it is
consumed, each ones story is told,
showing the continuing struggles and
tragedies of women. The focus then

 

shiﬁs to modern women, telling the »
stories of the women employed at the

Top Girls Agency, an employment [ M K I F gm Ji

agen.Cy’ the W.omen that com? through AND THE BAND PLAYED ON: The Hackerisaw Boys, a local band, provided spectators with amusing banter f
looking for a Job. )-

. . and good music. They received a warm and enthusiastic reception from the students who listened to them.
The cast consist of Emily Pace,

Sarah Jafri, Alix Warren, Victoria
Stanham, Sarah Ovin, Chrisitne I

 

  

   

   

Palazzolo, Patrice Wedderbum and V
Ruth Esponda all of which play _ b
mu1t1P1er°1<=S~ 63 FUN cases «v APRIL C0;ENE1,'i. CLOTHING e Riizretses 29
H 33 %
. E ,3. V
H H I ‘J’ ‘I
0 E I
cu '3‘ I
in F rx V’ ° A
GALLERY —* 0 ‘
on
6» c t I t' ‘°
,, ongra U a IONS. '3» —
27 W. Washington Street 5: 3 p :
Lexinqtomvirginin 5 "’  .
540-453-8827 tn "I 1
- 8 , RELAX, REFRESH, RENEW. Q:
www.netsontIrieaitsgal|ery.oom E3 0 I _*
npeIImIy1 i run. -spm. 5’ E i :
orbyqapnilirnm Z {"3 I .4:
c1osodW«lmadoys&$mda_vs <{ C, I :_
f~  U V? i 1
N! RN83’  ,   Cascades Day Spa is NOW OPEN and accepting appointments for body and skin care. I
; YDUOCIGK1 H1 1999..   We provide a professional and educational environment for your total well being. .1
i  “mks of  mm mint“   I Cascades Day Spa is located in the newest building in the rear of Magnolia Square. 
i by’ bcaiand Iaukmal in‘: E g’ Parents, reward your graduate with a restful visit to a fitst~<:lass spa. 
! pgﬂwmg annnqununmg gum‘  1 N Main St {[3 Graduates, thank your parents with the pampering they deserve. :
‘  __, ‘ L ' ‘  Better yet, celebrate this achievmerir together! Come join us for an experience the whole family can appreciate. I
_ U Lﬁxmﬂlﬁlﬂz    (lascaltles Day Spa has a friendly, experienced staff, 6 beautiful treatment rooms, and many healthy treatments for the body and skin. '3
 5 540.‘; in ‘X Gift cettficates and spa packages are available.  ‘y
I ' _ p . V .. ‘ 2
[ tMl.UAMF. areas 3 w=.~w.shoI>mn»i;;uI:iseeds.cazn I I CS 1
—, BARBARAORRWFORD 3:» I , ,5
{ P&|s1£YB(3:I0tF=HN ‘:3 g D A Y {--..;”‘;::%) s P A .
HOIHY KVELL '
DOJMETWEAVER Q,‘ MITTEN3 -- $YA”t‘3C>NE RY - HOME ACCENT3 $3 “”““‘”-C“‘‘°‘‘d“‘*“>’~‘P“'°°‘“
; lK)‘I HJDASILL ' ' A i i ‘ ~ i Open Tuesday—Friday, 10-8; Saturday 10»5 _“'
 KIRAI-I van SICKLE ; 540.463.2888 ‘ ~-
41 355 5511359 ‘ Located on Rt. ll North in Magnolia Square, in the rear building.

 

  

 
      
   

        
 
    
   
   
   
 
 

 

 

 

 

   
  

  
     
     
    

KKXXXXXXXXKKKAKKKK
Dusky Alb:-ﬁght Tina Harbiias Pattrick Murphy
Justafz Allggm Sean Hardin Ryan Murphy
‘ H Biafr Ailen A Anti}; Harding Katherine Muscalino R A D U A
* M ’ Teddae Arm;-id Kyle Hoary pm-hen Mustaga
Michael Augustine Brad Beam Paul Ne,-gmn
Kfziii Austin Gregory Heruiier Jennifer Ncisen
* Diane Averyt Catherine Henson Robin Okin *  N N I N G  
T MEIR Barker Scott I-ietzerznan Emery Ordemann
Earl Benscm Sallie Higgins Emily Pace '
Kevin Bihona Andrew Hirsekom Katha-in; Pekmaﬁ *
Dciia Boom: Adrianna Hook Rapha¢},P5z1tggd9
Mergdith Emil Blair Huﬂhzan gamn Pﬁgys
5 RSTCT1  K.I.'!:§‘sT€X} I-{untlcy  ﬁckcng
A h} giyson Bnce Joanna James Kempton Prgsley
-5 ~‘-‘-3’ 17333 Erika Pmko
V “ [ 3“
‘ L‘:‘§“mF“B’i’f:"; On behalf of the W8zsL Annual Fund, we Mam?“ ‘
gm-.5 Caglgbfﬂ thank the m.en1‘bers cf the Class of 2003 Mark Ream‘ 8
Richard Campbeii listed here. These generous individuals Lauren Robbins
K911i C9-79511391‘ h * V d t  .- Lincoln Rose-
. Em Cam! _ ave commute 8 <3 s ygar 3 Senior Wicmuehﬁng
#* BJa.z1¢tCC:§;:r Pledge Project. If you wish to honor Catherine *
‘3"‘!,:;i§& ‘*3’ you; tune m Lexmgton, please consider sggiigf
* %H§n§r  a aft of $20.03 payable by June 2004. Saundarg *
1 -0 am Kath , ” -Sham
K Krista Came: ddi . T _ 4 . Amgﬁgm
Km-n Cgﬂovc A ‘ tmnal tha_r1ks to the 86mm“ Pledge Chris Shannon *
M V5311 Cg? Project Commxttee for then‘ help in this wag Sham
at ext; amen V . E £1" gh
* Jmph Cfmnm effort! We 1<?o_k fofward to apnqqncmg Djﬂg 
N‘
(éar§crgeupr1:e your part1c1pat1on at Senior Nxght gm sgmmong
 a‘“” W55 (Wednesday May 28) P RY813991311
Burke Duncan ’ ‘  gmggh
Giana. Duncan 3333 gmggh
A 5 . » - V. 3
* unasaman smcemxy mm * 20 7o OFF
391133 5321313 - M I Sv- {isen
‘ . Andy Foisorn 8: Emma Thomas V ‘*5 S“
* Allen Clare Eikms ' * V T 1;,
, i We mom, Olass of2003 Class Agents Emﬂf; :3:,,,:% *

I Tergaa Etemo fol5om_1@w1u.edu thomaseo@w!u.edu . Jenny Thomas

,* QJhmF 8 Lauren Tieuli *
 Edwgrd Ifkpley Rebecca Johns Elizabeth '§‘ownsend ’ *

   ““**‘°*‘°m SPORT SHIRTS & COTTON SWEATERS

_ Austgx §?":2s.her Matthew Kimhrough Christina Twomey
K ' Juha Fitzesr Stacey Kixxzmel Jeanne Upchurch

-    ‘k PATCH MADRAS SLACKS & SH RT

1 Amy Folsom Heather Knot: Dan Walker

V Kgiliy Forrest Kari Kuersteiner Caro], Wang
A Jéiiiisrrn Jeremy Laucks Jamie Watkins &

. usan -' .i at JaneLed1ie Mike Watts

* Mao; Gmrge Robert Littiehaie Brandi Jane Wedgewonh *

; Avery Ffhnn Gholstan Shaicnc Magec Craig Wcinman

* f Calm Gleason William Martin Davis White
7* Kamryn Glemag Bradley Matthews Armwhitham *

i  Goldsmith Mary Carol Mazza Gmeth. Winstead 7

~ Rcbfnson Graham Marc McAfee Susan Woodward

j Eiizabeth Gray Jake Mdiiister Virginia W00’:-en
 Cﬁarc Green Thomas Meianson Jenny" Wright

| Aiiiscm Gruenwald Charisse Minor

.‘ Maria Hadjiaicxicau Michelie Moore
  ‘ﬁr   ‘Av COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

‘*******     mw NELSONST

7 East Beverley Street - Staunton, VA - 540-886-8666 - Hours: Mon—Sat: 10am-9pm; Sun: 12am-6pm

 

ERlN]Ll.lL‘S
SPORIS Eonor
EAn1i;jLuUsr@wir.i;i3t

THE RLN{}~’l‘tiM Par

MONDAY, MAY 26, 2003

Field Hockey team
will return four

All-ODAC plyes

IJIEIHOTU

FIELD HOCKEY. Kitt Murphy an ‘05 midﬁelder is in action last season.

BY JOHN HYLAND
.\‘i’()RTS \\'Rl'l‘F.R

Injust their third year as a var-
sity team, the W&L ﬁeld hockey
team is poised for an ODAC cham-
pionship in 2003. The team finished
10-9 overall last season and 6-3 in

. conference, losing to Lynchburg in

ODAC semi-finals.
The Generals return virtually
their entire team from the 2002
squad, losing only defender
Kathleen Gibson. Despite their suc-
cess last season, the team was fairly
inexperienced as 16 ofthe 21 play-
ers on the roster were either fresh-
men or sophomores, many of whom
saw signiﬁcant playing time. The
experience gained last season will
without a doubt help them in the
upcoming season. Two of those
underclassmen were goaltenders
Courtney Harrison and Elise
Gelinas who split time during their
freshmen campaigns.
Along with all oftheir points and
saves, the team returns four all-
ODAC performers. Sophomore
midﬁelder Kitt Murphy led the team
in scoring in 2002, with 18 points
on 5 goals and 8 assists. In addi-
tion to being named to the All-
ODAC ﬁrst team, she also received
All-State and All-Region recogni-
tion. Junior midfielder Mateina
Moure received second team All-
ODAC honors whilejunior forward

the

Kelly Taffe and freshman defender
Katharine Lester were named hon-
orable mention. These four will be
relied upon heavily to lead the team
in the 2003 season, especially
Moure and Taffe who along with
sophomore forward Kristen Brown
will be the team’s captains for the
upcoming season.

Freshman midfielder S.B.
Northen believes, “we are going to
be a very good team. We are strong
all around and our speed gives us
a huge advantage on our home
turf.” Clearly, the Generals did have
a huge home ﬁeld advantage last
season going 7-2 on the W&L turf
ﬁeld while ﬁnishingjust 3-7Aaway
from Lexington. Part of the team’s
problems in road games was be-
cause there were no grass ﬁelds for
them to use, and the majority of
schools use grass ﬁelds for games.
That problem has been solved for
2003, however, with the new grass
fields that the school has pro-
duced, the team will now have fa-
cilities to practice for road games
while still maintaining their home
ﬁeld advantage on their turf ﬁeld.

Playing on turf leads to a faster
game, which plays to the team’s
strengths. The combination of bet-
ter practice facilities, a great deal
of experience and what is believed
to be a very strong recruiting class
should make the Generals a formi-
dable team in 2003.

PORTS

PAGE 8r

PING

L

Jan Roo/TbePrin,g-hmzPl1i
PONG. Farhan Mustafa hits a ping pong ball to Matt Treco in a game of the final IM tournament of the year.

Hanson wins
National honor "

FROM STAFF REPORTS

W&L senior shortstop Michal‘
Hanson has been named to the
ABCA/Rawlings Division III All-
America baseball tern. Placed on
third team, Hanson is just the sec-it
ond baseball player in W&L his-
tory to have earned All-America
honors.

Thad Ellis, ’82, earned a Third
Team nomination after his 1980 sea-
son.

Hanson was also the 2003 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Year and garneredk
Second Team All-ODAC honors
his first two seasons and First
Team honors his last two sea-
sons. A

Hanson batted a .371 with ﬁve
homers, 12 doubles, 23 RBIs and
14 stolen bases. He also holds the
school record in runs, having re-
corded 46 and is a career .360 hit-I.
ter. Upon graduation, Hanson will
be the all-time leader in games
played at 136, in at-bats with 519,
in hits with 187 in runs with 148, in,
doubles with 43, in triples with 13
and in stolen bases with 51.
Hanson was also W&L’s leadoff
hitter and he ﬁnished his career af-,,
ter reaching base in 74 straight
games. This streak dates back to
April 2001.

1|.

Women’s soccer coming off its best season, losing only 3

BY DONNY BANKS
.\SSiST.\N’l' Sl’()RTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s soccertearn, com-
ing off its best season ever, should be in store for an equally
impressive year in 2003. The Generals lose only three
seniors, midﬁelder Jenny Thomas and defenders Lindsey
Duranand Jane Ledlie, this Juneto graduation. Whiletheir
departure will certainly make an impact, the consequences
should prove short-lived because of a talented group of
returning veterans and a slew of talented recruits.

“Collectively, the nucleus of the team stays intact
and we have 10 freshmen coming in that will all chal-
lenge for starting positions,” Head Coach Neil
Cunningham said regarding next year’s lineup. “Our
depth this year should be a huge asset.”

Captain Meghan Hayde echoes his sentiment:
“Although we are losing three important players to
graduation, the core of our team will be returning next
year. With the addition of some talented new freshmen,
there is no reason why we won’t be able to uphold our
title with hard work and dedication.”

Last year was a monumental one for the Gener-
als, who posted an overall record of 17-2-3, won the
ODAC Tournament, and received a berth to the
NCAA National Tournament, the ﬁrst in its history.
The team ﬁnished the season ranked 16"‘ nationally
after losing to University of Texas at Dallas in the
Semi-Final game of the NCAA South Regionals.

Not surprisingly, this success seems to have in-
stilled a lot of conﬁdence in the Generals. “By making
it to the NCAA’s last year, we have set the bar high for
this season,” Hayde further commented. “Our goal is
to prove that our championship season was not a one-
time thing. We want to make sure that we continue our
successes from last year and build on them.”

Despite their record-breaking year, the Generals
are far from satiated. There are still a lot of unfulﬁlled

goals to be attained, domination most notable of all.
“We don’t just want to slide by in overtime or pen-
alty kicks, we want to decidedly win,” said Captain
Forward Fontaine Marcoux. “We have never beaten
Lynchburg, as our advance over them last season
during penalty kicks goes on the record as a tie.”

Receiving a better seed in the ODAC Touma-
ment also seems to be of high priority, according to
Coach Curmingham. “Our aim is to try to repeat
what we did last year in terms of successes, but we
feel like we would like to aim at being the number
one seed going into the conference tournament, and
therefore host the tournament, especially as we play
in our new stadium next fall. Last year we won it
from the number three position.”

Prior success can only help the Generals so
much, however, and freshmen are never a guaran-
tee, so the burden of producing another 2002 will
ultimately fall on the players from last year. The
team will hold a big advantage in experience, with
four seniors in defender Meghan Hayde, midﬁelder
Heather Coleman, and forwards Fontaine Marcoux
and Susannah Hewlett, and nine juniors.

In addition, many of these veterans are well
decorated. Sophomore defender Kelley Zagol gained
recognition as a NSCAAAII Region First Team, and
Junior defender Meghan Hayde was a Third team
selection for the NSCAA and was named an honor-
able mention for the VaSlDA1l-State team. Five other
veterans, Romney Virillson (First Team), Maggie
Hope (Second Team), Gina Von Stemberg (Second
Team, Rookie of the Year), Molly Plummer (Second
Team), and Emily Barker (Honorable Mention), were
honored as All-ODAC athletes.

The sophomores, too, should contribute sig-
niﬁcantly. As a freshman, midﬁelder Gina Von
Stemberg scored 22 goals and had 20 assists on her
way to receiving All-ODAC Freshman of the Year,

VaSID All-State First Team, and NSCAA Second Team‘
All-Region accolades. Defender Heather Rogers and
midﬁelder Kerry Giblin willjoin her in adding to the
strong core of veterans.

Coach Cunningham understands the team dy-
namics well, and he looks to the 2003 season very»
positively with respect to personnel. “Vifrth excel-
lent leadership from our captains, Meghan Hayde,
Fontaine Marcoux, and Kelley Zagol, we will hope-
fully repeat as ODAC champions. I am expecting big
things off rising juniors Maggie Hope, Romney
Virrllson and Alison Irvin and Emily Barker, and also
hoping last year’s freshman class will continue to
develop and make giant strides in Gina Von Stemberg,
Kerry Giblin, and Heather Rogers,” he said. 1-;

Above all, the Generals will look to Cunningham
for guidance. In two seasons at Washington and
Lee, the coach has a 26-8-4 overall record. This past
year, he has earned unprecedented recognition, hav- I
ing been named NSCAA, VaSID, and ODAC Coacli‘
of the Year. Clearly, the Generals will be well led.

VV1th a new ﬁeld and stadium, excellent coaching,
solid returning talent, and more than enough conﬁdence
fromanarnazingprevious season, 2003 looks very prom;
ising for the Washingon and Lee women’s soccer team.

The Generals seem to agree that all they will need
to add to this recipe is hard work and camaraderie, nei-
ther of which is unattainable or unexpected. As Cap-
tain Meghan Hayde put it, “We are very lucky because
we have such a close team. The fact that we work hard
stems from the respect we have for each other on and
off the ﬁeld. We hope to take that attitude into pre-
season and demonstrate it to the incoming freshman;
Nobody is willing to settle for less than we are capable
of, and we are without a doubt capable of winning the
ODAC’s and advancing even farther in the NCAA’s.”

It’s hard to predict anything but success for the
Generals next season. U

W&L’s cross-country teams solid group of returnees next year

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
srorrs xnnrrr

The women’s cross country team certainly has a lot
to look forward to in the 2003 season.
freshman really contributed to the success of the team

this year and Coach Schuckert is ex-
cited for their return as experienced
sophomores.

She explained: “We have a very
solid crew of returners in Molly
Drake, Betsy Frayer, Megan Ward,
Vanessa Adams, Alexis Fernandez,
Erin Johnson, Jessica Remmert,
Ashley Brown and Karen
Blackburn.”

The team will also look forward
to some newcomers who have some
experience with the sport having run
at least 1 year in high school. These
girls are Mary Christopher and Debra
Kubas.

These former high school soc-
cer athletes will be making their de-
but for the General’s cross country
team and in the words of Kubas, “look
forward to the challenge”.

Two freshmen recruits will also be added to the mix and
could likely make a very positive impact on the top seven:
Jenny Ratzel (Brookﬁeld East High School/Elm Grove, WI)

 

and Tippins Stone (Harpeth Hall School/Nashville, TN).

Coach Schuckert realizes that in addition to the abili-
ties of the runners, “the leadership of upper-class veter-
ans Johnson, Remmert, Adams, and Fernandez will cer-
tainly be a beneﬁt to the team. I think we have a very
solid core of returnees.”

The objective is for each indi-
vidual to truly strive to make a contri-
bution to the success of the team. This
is certainly an athletic goal—but can
also be so much more. Great attitude,
great ideas, great leadership—all of
these aspects make up a team and a
group is solidiﬁed by each indiVidual’s
willingness to contribute to the team
elfort in her own special way.

I think we have a very special
group of women and their ability to
come together and support one an-
other is one of the team’s strongest
attributes.

Her remarks are very inspiring
and are the basis for the up and com-
ing season.

After completing a summer of
carefully planned workouts, the girls
will be ready for any challenge, and will be ready to work
together to achieve what they know they can!

The men are also hard at work getting ready for next
season. i

A strong team of

 

Coach Tucker is the lead men coach and is just as
excited as the men are about what’s to come.

The team has a lot of great competitors with a great
work ethic, which is extremely promising. There returnees
include: Steve Chambers ’05, Andrew Fotinos ’04, Todd
Martin ’06, Dan McMenamin ’05,-Rusty Meyer ’o4, Jer-
emy Mims ’04, Matt Reilley ’06, Andy Schorr ’04, Daniel
Vos ’04, and Eric
Whitt ’04. These
men had a great
season this year
and are ready to
continue that
trend into the
2003 season.

R i s i n g
Freshman Casey
Gillan, David
Kronenfeld, and
Bartlett Layton
will also join the
roster.

At the end
of last season,
Bell, Schorr,
Chambers and Duncan each earned All-Region accolades
for their top 25 ﬁnishes at the NCAA South/Southeast
Regional held at Mary Washington College. The men’s
squad had ﬁnished fifth of 23 teams with 160 points, while

2003 Cross-country schedule:

Sat. Sept. 13th—W&L Invite

Sat. Sept. 20th—Roanoke lnvitationa|—Roanoke
FriISat. Sept. 26-27-Training Weekend

Oct. 4th—Dickinson |nvite——Car|isle, PA

Oct. 11th—Division Ill State Meet-—Harrisonburg , ‘
Oct. 18--'DeSa|es—A||entown, PA

Oct. 25—Training Weekend

Sat. Nov. 1st—ODAC’s @ Lynchburg—Lynchburg,‘

Sat. Nov. 15—Regiona|s @ Emory—At|anta, GA

A

Sat. Nov. 22—Nationa|s in Hanover, IN

 

(‘V

 

