I3»-
I

 

L

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

G-TUM

ilrestiident ooice oflit/rrslringtorr imdlee University since 1897

PHI

 

/W»

MONDAY,]ANUARY 19,2004

2’ Honor Court record vanishes from VMI, state police investigate

1

BY PATRICIA BALIANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF \vRrrER

Someone broke into VMI’s Honor Court ﬁles,
and few cadets know about it.

Only one recent ﬁle appears missing.

On January 4, an intruder entered the Honor
Prosecutor's office in Maury—Brooke Hall. The per-
petrator entered by breaking a window on the bot-
tom ﬂoor, said VIVII Director of Communications Ken
White.

The detective from the Virginia State Police
needed DeShazor and the other Prosecutor,
Roderick James, to search their office looking for
any missing ﬁles.

They found a recent file missing, which gave
the investigation a suspect.

Christian DeShazor, one of the two prosecu-
tors’ of VMI’s Honor Code, was relaxing at home
when he received an unexpected phone call from
the VlVlI Superintendent Representative, telling him
someone had broken into his office.

The detective from the Virginia State Police
needed DeShazor and the other Prosecutor,
Roderick James, to search their office for any miss-
ing files. They found a recent file missing, which
gave the investigation a suspect. Stealing the file
accomplished nothing because another one could
be put together easily, in a matter of hours. An older
file, however, would have been much more difﬁcult
to reproduce.

The person knew what to do, according to
DeShazor, who said that the trespasser came in the
back of the building, entered the elevator, and
headed for the Prosecutors’ office prepared with a
tool to break down the door.

“It was pretty calculated,” said DeShazor. The

  

+. -, .- . -I
ORBJN LACKFORD I-E ING-TUM I-H

Theft. Ari intruder broke into the usually well-guarded Virginia Military Institute and stole an Honor Court ﬁle. The intrusion has been kept quiet on VMIs campus.

person “went through the filing cabinets and our
desk.” According to White, the police discov-
ered unlocked office doors to the Honor Court
President and the Honor Court Prosecutors of-
fices, and no obvious objects were absent.
“That room is always locked,” said DeShazor.
The Prosecutors’ office contains all of the

‘past files of VMI’s Honor Court. “I could find

ﬁles from the 1970s if I looked,” said DeShazor;

The VMI website calls their Honor System,
“the hallmark of VMI education.” Many as-
pects, such as Cadets controlling the proce-
dures, resemble W&L’s Honor System. Unlike
W&L, however, VMI keeps their records.

Therefore, the prosecutors’ office holds years
of sensitive information. VMI’s Honor Court actions
are kept quiet to protect the innocent. But all inves-
tigations files remain in the prosecutors’ office.

“It’s all very secret,” said DeShazor. “I would
hate for all that stuff to leak out.” According to
DeShazor, no one at VMI knows about the break—in,
especially because it happened over break. The is-
sue is still being given attention by investigators.

“Certainly, this type of activity is unusual at
VMI, so we’re taking this investigation very seri-
ously and appreciate the cooperation of the state
police,” said White.

Flurry of activity precedes Mock Con, keynote speaker remains undetermined

Thomas Menino, Mayor of Boston, Ronnie Dugger, cofounder of Texas Observer Jim Davis, Florida Representative, committed; no band signed

BY KAELA I-IARMON
STAFF WRITER

Memorabilia has been or-
dered, t—shirts have been made,
speakers have been lined up
and states prepare to make pre-
dictions as the highly antici-
pated 2004 Mock Convention
draws near. All of the chairs
have been working hard to make
sure that this year’s convention
is a success and although there
are still a lot of loose ends to
tie up things seem to be com-
ing together.

Jacquelyn Clark, who sits
on the executive board as per-
sonnel chairmen, said that the

memorabilia packages, which

include tumbler glasses, top
hats, t—shirts and other Mock
Con goodies, have been or-
dered and the poster design
and logo has been completed.
The biggest set back she has
had is that there was trouble
finding enough flatbeds for
every state to have a ﬂoat.
“Somehow they have not run
into that problem in the past so
we didn’t see that one coming.
But the parade chair, Emily
Tyson, has found 10 more
ﬂatbeds for us to use.”

Other members of the ex-

ecutive board and the steering

committee are also working
hard to make sure that every-
thing is coming together at their

end. Anne Idsal is the speak- _

ers chair and her chal-
lenge has been lining
up keynote speak-
ers.’ “We have
some minor speak-
ers signed on as
definites but due
to the timing of jg:
the primaries its
been difficult to get
speakers as well as media”.
Some of the minor speakers that
have been secured include Tho-
mas Menino, The Mayor of
Boston, Ronnie Dugger, Co-
Founder of the Texas Observer
and the Alliance for Democracy
and Florida Representative Jim
Davis.

Idsal said that they are still
in open dialogue with former
New Jersey Senator Bill Brad-
ley, Congressman John Lewis,
former Georgia Senator Sam
Nunn and a number of other
politicians who serve as surro-
gates to the candidates but she
made it clear that “It won’t be
until later in this week or early
next week that we’ll know some-
thing for sure”. Clark reempha—
sized Idsal’s challenge by stat-
ing, “ We’ve learned that people

  
 
 
 
 
  

on campaigns don’t plan very
far in advance”. Nonetheless,
Idsal is very confident that by
the.time the con-

vention starts
e v e r y‘-
thing will
be in
place,
“I’mdef1-
nitely
W n o t

w o r -
ried and
even if [somebody big] agrees
to come at the last minute we
will accommodate them”.

The state chairs and the re-
gional coordinators have the
key role of compiling enough
information to ensure another
successful convention by mak-
ing an accurate prediction.

This job has required that
each state chair and their co
chair develop working relation-
ships with key contacts in their
state who can help them figure
out how the voters will swing.
Each district is broken down
and a formula is used to deter-
mine what percentage of the
votes each candidate is likely
to receive.

The state chairs have had
to put in several hours of work
a week and with the race heat-

Brown but he has since de-

ing up between the top candi-
dates they have a lot of research
ahead of them before things are
said and done. 2

Oklahoma state chair John I
Vollbrecht said that at this point
its hard to tell exactly who will
win but he’s conﬁdent that they
will be ready for the convention.
“By the time of the convention,
I believe I will have enough in-
formation to make a correct pre-
diction.

Despite some states’ un-
certainties, John Heath, the re-
gional coordinator for the cen-
tral states, has the up most con-
fidence in his state chairs’ abili-
ties to make an accurate predic-
tion, “I feel our state chairs have
done such a good job that we’ll
be just fine on January 30”‘ and
315"’.

Other .than the keynote
speakers, the only issue that re-
mains to be resolved is the
question of who will be the
band for the weekend; At one
point the steering committee
was hoping to bring in James

clined. The two weeks before
the convention will be crucial
for everyone involved but ev-
eryone is confident that the
2004 Mock Convention will be
a success.

Tentative Schedule for 2004 Mack Convention

Friday, January 30th
.l0:30- Parade
1215- Preconvention Entertainment
1245- Call to Order
1250- Presentation of Colors
l:55- Pledge of Allegiance
2200- National Anthem
2205- Invocation
2: 10- Call for Convention
2215- Credentials Committee Report
2220- Rules Committee Report
2:25- Election of Permanent Chairman
2:30- Opening Remarks and Addresses
4:25- Benediction
4230- Adjournment
7:15- Entertainment
7:30- Call to Order
7235- Invocation
7240- Address #1
8:00- Address #2
8:25- Platform Committee Report
8:30— Platform Debate
9210- Keynote Address
9:40- Benediction
9145- Adjournment
Saturday, January 31st
9200- Call to Order
9105- Presentation of Colors
9210- Pledge of Allegiance
9: 15- National Anthem
9220- Invocation
9:30- Opening Address
9250- Additional Address
10210- Keynote Address
l0:40- Roll Call and Nominations for President and Vice President
l2:45- Benediction
l2:50- Termination of the Convention

Newspaper reporter visits, inspires W&L students

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

Mike Doyle, a veteran newspaper re-
porter, spoke in Northern Auditorium on
January 13. Doyle works for the McClatchy
Newspaper Chain in the Washington Bureau.
He reports to newspapers nationwide.

Doyle is a witer, preorter an author who has
appeared on CNN, MSNBC and the Today Show.
He came to speak at Washington and Lee as
a Wilson Fellow last week.

Doyle, who is orginially from California,
graduated from Oberlin with a degree not in jour-
nalism, but in government. He siad that a liberal
arts education is the best way to learn to become
a reporter.

While at Washington and Lee, Doyle
spoke to many of the journalism and Politics
classes including Introduction to Reporting,
State and Local Government, and Interna-
tional Relations.

“I thought that he was an excellent
speaker, but he was not decisive,” said
sophomore Katie Jenkins. Many students

shared Jenkins view that Doyle was very in-
decisive.

Doyle also spent time with the staff- of each
of the campus newspapers. He advised the staff
of the Trident while they were working on their
most recent edition and
went to dinner with several

ures forfeit privacy? It is a battle between the
right of privacy verses the public’s right to know.

The Supreme Court established right of
privacy in 1965 in the Griswold versus Con-
necticut decision. Doyle believes that there
I is no free ﬂoating
public right to

section editors from the In f€P0ftif1g,th¢f€ are times know. James
Phil when journalists must turn Madison is

Doyle began his - quoted as de-
speech, titled “Pub1ic tthe” backsand “°”eP°” fending the
Men and Private Lives: MIKEDOYLE theory of the
Where Does the Media LWLSONFELLOWSPEAKER public right to

Draw the Line?” by speak-
ing of what makes a re-
porter.

The focus of his lecture was on privacy.
Gary Condit was a congressman that Doyle
followed. It was widely known that Condit
was a womanizer, but Doyle chose not to
report because that was private. Had he
known what would happen to Chandra
Levy, he may have reported on Condit’s be-
havior sooner.

This poses a huge question: do public fig-

know. Doyle
says that this is
taken out of context.
Another, more recent example of privacy and
the media would be the LA Times releasing a
story about Arnold Schwarzenegger groping
women five days before the election.

Should the story have been written and 1

published? 10,000 readers cancelled their
subscriptions, but Doyle feels it was exem-
plary reporting.It was good reporting because
when electing a public official, many people

vote on character. Therefore, as a society,
we must know everything about this char-
acter.

Doyle half agrees with this belief. Half
of him thinks otherwise. He never came to a
conclusion, stating that in reporting, there
are times thatjournalists must turn back and
not report.

The example Doyle used was Sepemtber
l 1, 2001. People were plunging to their deaths
on this day, and the media chose to run these
messages continually. According to Doyle,
there is a time to look away; people will al-
ways be falling and if we are wise, we will turn
away.

Doyle’s book, “The Forestport Breaks: A
19th Century Conspiracy Along the Black River
Canal," is set for publication by the Syracuse
University Press.

The Wilson Fellowship brings a practicing
journalist to campus each year to teach, lecture
and advise. This visit gives journalists a chance
to chare their knowledge with students as well
as give students a chance to interact with pro-
fessionals in theirfield.

 

I7

VoLUiiEC3dI,No.5v‘liI

    

g ‘  '..§a«':a«.  I J.9it,m.- '
“  ‘~;» ~.. iii‘? l’-’»°."".“-;‘.'
;7‘.'Y..’-:‘3‘ 3-  .,~.,._.

last 2820!}!

W

PAGE 2

MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2004 '

Hidden Hero Julianne Shelley toils for Literacy Campaign

Julianne will also be working this Spring to raise money to support Cystic Fibrosis research, studies hard and loves children

Julianne Shelley serves others ‘selﬂessly. While tutoring
middle school students her freshmen year she discovered,
much to her surprise, that many could not read well.

Now, in her junior year, she is organizing an
adopt-a-classroom program for the Literacy 
Campaign. Although she was involved with th
Campaign in previous years, Julianne has be
come increasingly active and is assuming lead-
ership roles this year, and her hard work is surely
to the benefit of the Literacy Campaign.

She and Kristin Crawford will beihosting a charity ball for
the program soon. Last year, the group hosted a similar cam-
paign with the proceeds going towards the Cystic Fibrosis
Foundation. '

This year, Julianne will be involved in more charitable
events to support Cystic Fibrosis research.

Julianne spoke of the good times and fun she had work-
ing with children over the summer. She worked with kids at a
day camp doing various activities outdoors and indoors, in-
cluding helping as the Junior Staff at Sea Island.

Shelley is a Sociology and Psychology double major. She
started as a Pre-Med major, but later decided that she “really
wanted to know about people in general, not just the scientific
stuff.” .

She said that she loved her anthropology courses and
loved learning about different cultures. There is always some-
thing new to learn.

Julianne also said she was very happy to have taken the

 

   

Campus prepares MLK celebration

science courses she did, particularly Chemistry and Biology
here at Washington and Lee. Julianne hails from Savannah,
Georgia and said that she still isn’t used to the snow and ice
here, but the excellent professors and exten-
sive extracurricular activities have kept her feel-
ing right at home and plenty busy.

Julianne isn’t really sure what she wants to
do after college, but she knows that she wants
to work with kids.

Julianne said that, ideally, she would really like to work
for a non profit organization sometime in her future.

Right now, her plans include graduate school with her psy-
chology or sociology degree and “hopefully use that to help
out.”

Her advice to other students would be is to simply relax,
and smile more. “This school and life in general, can get really
stressful at times, but as long as you put all you can into what
you do you’ll be fine.”

Shelley described herself as “caring, hardworking, and
thankful.” She has clearly demonstrated all of those traits by
her actions on campus and elsewhere.

The Ring-tum Phi solicits nominations for students, fac-
ulty and staff whom you believe to be hidden heroes. If you
know of a member of the community who contributes quietly,
please feel free to nominate him or her to be interviewed for
our Hidden Hero section. Email your nominations to
phi@wlu.edu.

Hidden Hero. Juliarme Shelley Works as a tutor and is organzing the
Adopt-a-classroom program for the Literacy Campaign.

BY KYLE WASS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

In the midst of a week-
end filled with Robert E.
Lee’s Birthday and the Lee-
Jackson town parade, Wash-
ington and Lee has found
time today to celebrate the
legacy of legendary civil
rights activist Martin Luther
King, Jr. Several campus
events were planned to mark
the signiﬁcant occasion.

King’s actual birthday
was January 15, and stu-
dents could receive birth-
day cake in the living room
of the Commons to cel-
ebrate. This celebration
was sponsored by the
Dean of Students Office,
Multicultural Student Or-
ganizations and the Martin
Luther King, Jr. Day Com-
mittee.

Today, King’s birth-
day is nationally observed
as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day and is a federal holi-
day.

Tonight in the Market-
place, the dining staff has

provided a memorial dinner
of King’s favorite foods,
including fried chicken,
black-eyed peas, cheese
biscuits and sweet potato
pie. The memorial dinner

 

Brown as she presents
“Martin Luther King, Jr. and
the Quest for Civil Rights:
Then and Now.”

Brown graduated from
Fordham University in New

is sponsored by the York with a B.S., and re-
Multicultural Student Or- ceived her J.D. from
g a n i z a - Gerxgatiwn
tions. Univer-
After sity Law
dinner, School.
there will She has
be a pro- taught
gram fea— law at
turing “re— George
flections Mason
and pre- Univer-
sentations sity and
surround- the Uni-
ing the im— versity
pact that of Cin-
Dr. King’s cinnati.
legacy has Brown is
bad in now a
[the] lives profes-

of some of our students,”
according to Assistant
Dean of Students Tamara
Futrell.

Also in King’s honor,
the university will host key-
note speaker Dorothy

sor at the Washington and
Lee University School of
Law, where she teaches Ad-
ministrative Law, Critical
Race Theory, Federal In-
come Tax and Partnership
Tax.

Brown’s publications in-
clude works such as Racial
Equality in the Twenty-First
Century: What’s Tax Policy
Got to Do With It? Introduc-
tion: Symposium on Race,
Gender, and Economic Jus-
tice, and Critical Race
Theory: Cases, Materials,
and Problems.

Following Brown’s pre-
sentation at 7:00 PM tonight
in the University Common’s
Theater, the University will be
holding a processional and
vigil march from the Univer-
sity Commons to Evans Din-
ing Hall to represent the som-
bemess of the occasion.

According to the Law
School’s website, there will be

a celebration in Evans that ‘

evening.

Dean Futrell said that she
is “looking forward to the
event and think that it is im—
portant that students, faculty,
staff, and administrators take
the time to honor a man who
has played such a significant
role in history. . .not just black
history, but American his-
tory.”

  

Beware of string of laptop thefts

There has been a string of thefts in the Williams school and you
should contact the Director of Security, Mike Young, at mlyoung@wlu.edu
if you have any information relating to the thefts or if you need to report
something missing.

LIFE is now accepting new members

Life is now recruiting new members. LIFErs present programs
and organize health—related events. Pick up. an application form
outside of Carol Calkins’ office in the University Commons on the
second ﬂoor. Applications due Monday, January 26. Reserve Sat-
urday, February 7 from 1:00-4:00 for training. Questions? Call the
Office of Health Promotion X4501.

Mock Con predictions begin . 3 3

Despite uncertainty about the outcome of Monday’s Iowa Caucuses,
students at Washington and Lee University are predicting that Rep. Dick
Gephardt will emerge victorious.

According to Gregory Papeika, a W&L senior and the Iowa State Chair-
man, Gephardt will win with 28 percent of the vote, followed by Howard
Dean with 24 percent, Sen. John Kerry with 21 percent and Sen. John Edwards
with 17 percent.

“Gephardt seems to have the best organization to get out the vote,”
Papeika said. “He maintains the most consistent and stable polling of any of
the candidates.”

Soul food: true American cuisine for all people to enjoy

The white southern

BY TED DELANEY
PROFESSOR OF HISTORY

Traditionally, Washington and Lee Din-
ing Services serves a “soul food" meal on
the occasion of Martin Luther King’s birth-
day. The great civil rights leader was both
African-American and a southerner who
spent a good portion of his life in Atlanta.
King grew up on a diet that is not unfamiliar
to either black or white southerners. Both
races shared much in common, and food was

one of those things.
writer Willie Morris explained it best when he
described a New Year’s Day party that he
spent at the home of Al Murray in Harlem in
1967. The Murrays served bourbon, collard
greens, black-‘eyed peas, ham hocks, and
cornbread. Morris observed it was “a kind of
ritual for all of us. Where else in the East, but
in Harlem,” he wrote, “could a Southern white
boy greet the New Year with the good—luck
food he had had as a child, and feel at home
as he seldom had thought he could in [New
York].”

Not all southern-style cooking is soul
food. Spices make the difference! Soul food
originated with countless black cooks in the
Old South who combined traditional African
cooking methods with the foods they found
in the New World. The cooks prepared food
with their souls rather than written recipes.
State laws prevented them from learning to
read, and they developed new recipes that
they passed on to countless generations of
both black and white southerners.
chicken, for instance, is a favorite among
southern families and African-American fami-

Fried ‘

lies in particular. No corporation under-
stands how biracial fried chicken is in the.
South better than KFC. Two months ago I
took Professor Merchant to a black-owned
soul food restaurant in Houston. After stuff-
ing himself, Merchant said: “I never knew
sweet potatoes could taste so good!” But
not only sweet potatoes, everything in this
restaurant was exceptional.

Soul food and/or southern style cooking
is truly American cuisine, and it transcends
racial boundaries. Have fun eating with W

and L’s Dining Services on King’s birthday.

Be sure to support SARAH this weekend
by attending the infamous LipSync charity event.

Need a rest ﬁom
everyday life?

Treat yourself to a
luxurious full body massage by

 H 31" 1" 1.8’, BA, CMT

Certiﬁed Massage Therapist
Board of Nursing Certiﬁed
13 Years Experience

Gift Certificates Make
Great Valentine’s Presents!

(540) 264-0063

 

  

WE CAN DO IT!

. Repairs ~ Contacts
COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

raeuew oerueueuis

20 years serving Rockbridge i
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

A Bar A Ranch:
Spend a summer in Wyoming

Spend your summer in Wyoming on one of
America’s best guest ranches. Now hiring for June
1 - September 11 and June 1 - September 25.
Check our staff web site at www.coolworl<s.com/
abara for details, or call Bob or Margie Howe,
Managers, at 303-838-1950. Bob Howe will be
on campus February 4. You can set up an inter-
view on e-recruiting. No need to post a resume;
you can bring it to the interview.

 
    

549-451-344?’

309 N. Main St.
Lexingt:On, VA 24450

5:.-am», La»‘3?E.1*;r3li Raseei
?2=.Ara:3:ia£>;«r.=te& 

V

1

V

.94’

 

 

 

    

"mi: Rl\£(}}~’l’UM i3}-‘ii

CAIEYANDEMON
OPlNlOl\BFDIl0R
mm m

PINIONS

 
 

 
 

  
   

‘ MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2004 - PAGE 3
O O
1 ‘ :.'i7i‘li.-*»-’«::-*ii,ii.il’}~a2 R t b t t d H V 1 t
, ,)lTORlAL   ape mus e rea e as onor 10 a ion
1 ' ,
Drop/Add Policy
I’ in place for use, not refusal.
The Ring-tum Phi has recently
become aware of dozens of students
who were turned away from taking
‘’ courses pass/fail. Policies exist for a
reason and faculty ought to be willing
e to stand up and allow students to
explore a topic with the simple goal
I of academic enjoyment, not the worry
of a grade.
Washington and Lee, like many
universities, has long scrolls of
Q policies. We choose to abide by some
and ignore others. We see a problem
here. Students who are interested in
courses because of the topic should
1‘ have the right to take the class based .
solely on that interest without being
afraid of getting a bad grade.
Professors argue that students will
e not take a class as seriously if they
take it pass/fail. That reason is not a
sufficient one to prevent all scholars
from taking a course for the love of
its topic. If a pupil does not do an e
' adequate job in a pass/fail course, give , UKHSYOF '1 " ',,,
him 3 failing grade. Why Sh0ll1d 3 f6W INTHE SHADOWS OF WHITE COLUMNS‘ Our honor sets us free, but whyisn’t rape considered by the Executive Committee as anHonor Violation?
bad apples ruin the yummy apple .
cake? A Washington and Lee student, according to the sensitive issues related to rape cases makes realize what they’re doing. But it’s my opinion
V others say that students who are the White Book, acts dishonorably when he or handling of such cases by anyone else impos— that, in the end, the bottom line is that if you rape
on the waiting list for a course Should she commits a “breach of trust” as interpreted by sible. I disagree. There is no reason that mem- a fellow student, you have breached that
have priority Over those optlng to take the student body. through the Executive Cornmit— bers of the EC could go ‘through the same training student’s trust in a horriﬁc manner, whether or
the Class pass/l,-all tee. Given this simple policy, I find it astonishing and handle the cases with the same conﬁdential— not you meant to do it, or knew you were doing it,
. The grade a student receives - mat rape ls apparently n0_t Con‘ """"""""""""""" '3 """"""""""" " V Hy _ . . or Whether or not you would have dO,ne It Whe,n
, _ ~ sidered an Honor Violation at MODERATE SMUSINGS and sensitivity. you were sober. To the person who 1S raped, it
Whether It Is an A or 3‘ P ' Should not our University. ‘ Of course, it is not always this makes no difference; you’ve caused an irrevo-
inﬂllence her Chance at getting into a Let us begin with the easi— CALEY ANDERSON  easy to judge. If you look at pam— cable trauma in their lives and done untold emo-
SeCt1011- est case— one student, free of phlets and listen(ed) to your dorm tional (and perhaps physical) damage to them.
n In short, students have an the inﬂuence of alcohol, uses violence or threat counselors, you’ll have heardthe ominous statis— That, when the person trusted you not to, is dis-
incredible opportunity in the form of of violence to forcibly rape another student, who tic that one in four Washington and Lee women honorable. Can you imagine George Washing-
the pass/fail policy. It is a shame when is also sober. Is this not a “breach of trust” of the will be sexually assaulted during her four—year ca— ton or President Lee ever saying that rape, inebri-
a student who Simply wants to explore most serious kind? According to the current stu— reer here. While this sounds like a stretch, you ated or otherwise, would not be considered dis-
. an interesting eleetlve may not do so dent community, rape of this sort 1S not dishonor— can reconcile it by recognizing that there aren’t honorable conduct? l l _
» without the Worry of a grade able conduct, as the only on—campus appeal a too many out—and-out, sober. rapes on-campus. The bottom line is this— rape is not accept-
raped student has 1S to the Student-Faculty Hear- Far more frequent, I would imagine, would be able. I have absolutely no respect, and the ut-
Faculty: please let students . . . l . » . .
,. ing Board, which hears issues related to sexual murky goings-on that take place~under~.an alco— most contempt, for men. whoare guilty of this
take your Courses for 3' paSS/fa11 assault.‘ The SFHB may or may not dismiss a stu-I holic haze in fraternity basemhnts.‘ 'I;Ihis,raisasian vicious crime. — A person who commits rape lacks
my grade- dent found guilty of rape, but this is irrelevant, as important question— if there’s a drunken student common decency and empathy, let alone honor.
we’re not considering sanctions, but honor, and making aggressive and questionable advances If you place yourself in a situation where you
as one of many lines from the EC President’s an— and actions, is that dishonorable? end up raping someone while drunk, or if you use
nual speech to the freshman class oes, honor is Personally, I find this question difficult to re— substances to take advantage of the other per-
e     not mleasudredbby dlelgrleeeuaitid tlle faftlthat lying is solvelfl all] of lhejopinlon lthaltl olne sldioluld cclntrol son, it’s 11:1) dilfferentlh1;‘lIlkwas ’  lnot ail
consi ere a reac o s ,ye ra eis not, seems onese w eni comes oa co o ,an ama soo excuse, an “s ewas ” mos e mi e yisn’
anomalous to me. I am in no wail) critical of the the opinion that being drunk doesn’t absolve you either. I want students who are accused of rape
SFHB; they do their job well, but my argument is of guilt or responsibility. I can see that many referred to the EC in addition to their criminal pro-
“ - - - - - that when it comes to sexual assault, cases should people might think that drunken ra e is not nec— ceedings, and I want those who are guilty dis-
‘ ‘We hadacommumtyiwlde Chm Supperm fall within the jurisdiction of the EC. essarily dishonorable, and I can se: the reason— missed immediately and without question. I am
2m], and we were havmg bake sales every A convincing argument might be made that ing behind it. Someone under the heavy inﬂu- not willing to tolerate the presence of such people
week an herthe l l,, the SFHB s special training and experience with ence of alcohol is not in control, and may not inlmy University and in my Honor System.
, 0
~ W &L students must recognize MLK Day
~Mindy Bailey,
 0fKamnaC0mbS’mOm0W0nmn The city allid county govlernrpdient: are closed today. Federal day for the academic community, and students, faculty, and admin-
, , overnment o ices are also c ose . T e ublic schools are closed. istrative members scarcel reco nize the holida on their own. Since
1  1%/[any private college campuses are also 1c)losedto— I have beeni studint here, the Miiiiority Student Asso-
cancerinordertogarnishdonationsl day. But today, we students at Washington and TllAlN OF Tl_lOUGl_l»l ciation along with the Dean of Student’s office has or-
Lee University attended classes and carried on ‘ ganized a celebration for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day in
 W, _-,  with our business as if it was any other day in the  which the Gospel Choir sings, an important figure
e THE  PI-H calendar year. Yet it is not. Today is Martin Luther   O speaks, and students make reflections. I remember that
Edimrin Chief Jeb Brooks King, Jr..Day, a day that our nation has dedicated to the memory of not even half of Lee Chapel was filled last year and the majority of
Am-s,a,,,Ed,-,0, Kyle wees (Erie tof lhistogyjts mast lItI‘tlp()SI'IaIt1t[I8.(l'ld belovtedtfligtures. (1)nbthe  tltiedstuctlents who attended were minority students, especially black
Newsgdimr Erin -us en er s we S1 e, ore a co ing wro e a we ce e ra e 1S _ s u en s.
Opinions Editor Caleyilzlllldel-sol; holiday to “commemorate the values of It seems that people here think it is a holi-
' Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley courage, truth, justice, compassion, dig— day for blacks but the truth is that it is not.
A715 & Life Edil‘07 Megan Morgan nity, humility and service that defined Dr. Martin Luther King did not fight exclusively for
A5“ Am &L‘f"’ Ed’:"” Chris Laudeman King’s character and empowered his lead— the rights of black Americans. The dream he
:ﬁl;l0§;1Ir7:yE1f1¢f;0r:  ershipl.”l _ l had in mind encompassed peoplelfrom every
‘ . Chadmewietdejmge His inﬂuence 1S as important to the walk of life. He had a dream to improve the
Production Assistants Emllyledwards development and growth oflthis nationlas nature of humanity for everyone, not just for
Kelly Je Larsen the original founders of this country. It black Americans. However, he utilized the
copy Editors Alexa Moulevalls is because of his efforts, compassion,*and plight of blacks to exemplify the plight of hu-
l Katezawymcha courage that our society has progressed manity; the injustice of prejudice applies to
Sarah Beth Campbell from a darkened nation to a more enlight— us all, re ardless of how small or how lar e.
' Vanessa Arness ened one. The changes that he and civil We have Erejudices based on physical appear-
. Aubrey _Mi“°Y rights activists worked to implement truly ances, personalities, and personal decisions
Al::ts";:ssl,::;":fger' £:‘:dS§‘ef;‘:rt made our nation a more civilized nation in life. So essentially, the celebration of Mar-
‘ Cl.m'llan.onDl.rect0; Henry Grimm“ because everyone was at ‘least legally tin Luther King, Jr.’s legacy IS the celebration
Asst Clmulaﬁon Dix Stuart Presnell treated as equal human beings. Before of the legacy of human rights and a celebra-
D1-Sm-bum" D,-r_ Themes Worthy the Civil Rights era, we were civilized in tion for all humanity.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

the sense that we possessed the techno-
logical and economic innovations that

So I encourage all of you to reconsider the

purpose and meaning of Martin Luther King, Jr.

sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
k The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent
The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All subrriissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
Q The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
~ Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
- ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
‘V The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University

made us a viable global force, but when
there is turmoil and dissention between
people in a nation to the extent that we
had in the United States at that time, it
cannot be said that the United States was
a truly civilized nation. Because of King,
Americans entered into a new era absent of the racial barbarisms
present before.

Yet, in spite of the symbolic importance of King’s actions, the
Washington and Lee Community fails to recognize the day as a holi-

Phi Quick Poll

» Day and if you have felt disenfranchised from
the celebration, leave your concerns aside and
take a moment out for the sake of humanity. This
is what Martin Luther King Jr. would have wanted
us todo on a holiday to commemorate him. He
would not want to simply be remembered and

praised; he would want his memory to be a productive and meaningful

entity to inspire further progress in the fight to eradicate prejudice for
all human beings. So I invite you to come to tonight’s celebration
which will be held at 7 pm in the University Commons theater.

PHOTO COURTESY OF I I namericarzscom

I)u~:Aivm. Dr.MarrinLurherKing,]r.,civiln'ghtsleader.

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Yes- 79%

Te,el,hm_. (540) 453_4060 A random sample of 28 students were asked 95% Conﬁdence Yes but unoﬁiciall _ 147

' Fax: (540) 458-4059 “Are you involved in Mock Convention?” ’ y 0
Email: phi@wlu.edu No- 7%

Subscription rate $40

a

 

 

“Prospective minori

 

ty student

zzitlttxzstzistita

MONDAY, JANUARY 19,2004

  INIONS  

s”weekend not conducive to genuine diversity

PHOTO COURTESY OF

HoMoGENoUs? While Washington and Lee is not the most diverse campus, a hushed up “prospective minority student weekend” is not the answer, and in fact seems a little bit insincere. '

You may have noticed that there were
an unusually large number of prospective
students on campus this weekend. Actually,
considering the reason, it is
also sad that there were so few.
This weekend was an unofficial
gathering of minority students.
I don’t claim to know all there
is to know on this event, but a
friend of mine from high school told me in
class last year that Washington and Lee was
paying for her to come visit the campus for
a weekend.

At the time, I was jealous. I was a se-
nior in high school waiting for my accep-
tance letters and still deciding between sev-
eral schools. Washington and Lee, obvi-
ously, was very high on my list and I won-

 

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNE FINLEY ‘O7

dered why I had not been invited along with
her or why they didn’t seem to want me as
much as my friend.

The answer came after she
got back from beautiful, his-
toric Lexington. She had ar-
rived to find herself amongst
a very diverse group of pro-
. spective students. Under-
stand me when I say that this is not a bad
thing. I would love for Washington and Lee
to have more diversity, and the fact that a

school that was already so small was also,

very homogenous made me think twice
about coming to this fantastic and unique
institution.

My final choice of which school to at-
tend, which I made two days before the May

15‘ deadline while visiting Washington and
Lee, was between here and the University
of Southern California, which" is its polar
opposite in nearly every category. This was
especially true in the area of size and di-
versity. The only thing that bothers me
about this past weekend was that, at least
for my friend back in Texas who chose not
to attend this school, she was not informed

that the weekend was basically arranged,

for minority students only.

By all means we should invite accom-
plished students from all walks of life to
visit our beautiful campus and get a feel
for the unique experiences that Lexington
has to offer.

Yet, no one wants to feel that they are
only wanted for how they look on paper, or

the statistic they can fulfill or improve. If
we continue the positive practice of col-
lectively bringing minority students onto
campus, they need to all be informed of the
real motivation for the weekend.

We have nothing to be ashamed of, so
we should have nothing to withhold from
students interested in our university. The
level of diversity will only be improved by
changing our attitudes and exuding a sense
of openness and tolerance. It is not enough
just to focus on getting those who have al-
ready applied to seriously consider attend-
ing Washington and Lee. We must concen-
trate on making our school a place that a more
heterogeneous mix of people would want to
apply in the first place. And mere good in-
tentions and secrecy is not the way to do it.

 

 

 ass"->3.   arogr; ;w:' s.

  
 
 

  

    
 

 >5?’ E»‘.’a§:i. 3532 ’(-j<;?s'ss.  \;,\-I‘.
:91 ﬁes‘ was as
....

   

s-'. c5»'::-$:?vR;_;o air‘. 5.

"e.>>'7«v.<_s 
it-$2a>"1<.'4 €:6::sm3 aw -am /‘~:z_::_;j$3$

  Haliicom

 selection.

How smart is 33323: A13 tire textiﬁneiza you
need far up to  off iratasii ;;:r§::es.. New or
used. ail you have to do is go to l”t8tEf.£3=£}rt't
amt? type in the no-::2=Ee:t:it1eis.. at 35%: :n;um1:a:er's..
‘Then let mantra: take its rzuurse.

. :__::sssss2<£ "Ike.-‘.99 

 

 ';.,. .o6.;~.z':<_*;:f'l-V %*'."";:<2-9395:;.~1-9~;2".:'*‘;a- - ...¢sr;»2< ' -

  
  
 

 

I’

 

  

 

 

I '1 J(}lNHYIAl\D

I

'1

AI

AsrrANrS1>oRIsE.1rroR
mm m
MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2004,

BY JOHN HYLAND ‘
ASSISTANT SPORTS Eorrorz

The W&L men’s basketball team got back on the right
track this week, breaking their six game losing streak with a
decisive win over Eastern Mennonite on Wednesday night
before dropping a tight decision to Lynchburg. The team’s
record now stands at 3-10, 2-5 ODAC.

In Wednesday’s victory at the Warner Center, the Gen-
erals opened up a 41-27 lead at halftime and extended their

’ lead to 18 points with just over ﬁve minutes to play. The

Royals went on a 23-10 run to cut the lead to ﬁve points at
87-82 with under a minute to play. It was too little too late,
however, as the Generals were able to connect their free

‘throws to seal a 93-84 victory. For the game, W&L shot 24

of 38 from the charity stripe. The Generals were able to win
despite being out rebounded, largely because they shot
lights out from the ﬁeld. They shot a season best 52% from
the ﬂoor, including 9 of 17 from the three point line. Fresh-
man guard, Chris Halkitis, was 5 of 7 from the three point
arc, en route to a career high 26 points and 8 rebounds.
Junior guard Mike Stuart chipped in with a season high 19
points and sophomore forward David W111 added 16 points
and 6 rebounds. The loss dropped the Royals’ record to 3-
9, 1-5 ODAC.

PORTS

Basketball losing streak ends

against Eastern Mennonite
ButGenerals drop tough loss to
Lynchburg in Wednesday night game

‘ ger roll with just 5 seconds left. The Generals turned the ball

”£°‘:’--iEi>i.l:=\?€;~1’E§E‘»«il}E~-E

The Generals and particularly Stuart were able to con-
tinue their hot shooting in the ﬁrst half of Wednesday’s
game at Lynchburg. W&L opened a 41-30 halftime lead, led
by Stuart’s 23 points on a perfect 8 of 8 from the ﬁeld, in-
cluding 7 of 7 from behind the are. For the half, the Generals
shot 16 of 23 from the ﬁeld and 9 of 12 from three point
range. Their sharp shooting would not continue into the
second half, however, as they shot just 6 of 21 from the ﬁeld
and 0 of 6 form three point range. The Hornets slowly
chipped away at the lead, ﬁnally evening the score at 61
with. 3:21 to play. The teams would trade free throws as the
score remained tied at 65 with just 17 seconds remaining.
On their ensuing possession, the Hornets’ Chris Manos
drove the length of the ﬂoor and hit the game winning fm-

over on the inbounds pass and Lynchburg preserved its
first ODAC win of the season, improving their record to 4-9,
1-5 ODAC. Stuart ﬁnished with 25 points and Halkitis
dropped 15 in the loss.

The Generals faced ODAC leader and the top-ranked
team in the country, Hampden-Sydney, last night at home.
They then travel to Emory and Henry on Wednesday night
for another conference match-up.

PAGE 5

TEVE V ARINOS 5 ING-77M H1

AIRBORNE. Sophomore Matt Lawless jumps for the goal.

Mens’ lacrosse team ranked 10th in Faceoff Division III preseason poll

URTIESY PORTS INr<)R1v1ImO1§i

ALL AMEUCAN FORM. Senior Dustin Martin is one of three preseason All Americans.

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

TOWSON, Md. — Inside Lacrosse released its
Faceoff Magazine preseason Division III men’s lacrosse
coaches poll on Friday afternoon. Washington and Lee
ranked 10th overall in the voting.

Defending national champion Salisbury sits atop
the poll with 68 first-place votes. Middlebury, last
season’s NCAA Runner-up, is second in the poll after
receiving four first-place votes. Following Middlebury
is Cortland, Washington College, Whittier, Ithaca,
Hampden-Sydney, Gettysburg, Lynchburg and Wash-
ington and Lee. Roanoke was a fourth ODAC school to
crack the poll at No. 16.

W&L returns six starters from the 2003 squad which
posted a 9-5 overall record, 4-2 in the ODAC. The Gen-
erals lost three games in overtime and four by’ a goal,
including the ODAC Championship game to Lynchburg,
6-5.

Leading the returnees are a trio Faceoff Preseason
All-Americans in seniors Dustin Martin (Manlius, N .Y./
Fayetteville-Manlius), Lawson Grumbine (Owings Mills,

 

Martin, Grumbine and Sanders tabbed
preseason All-Americans by magazine ’s poll

Md./Gilman) and Ansel Sanders (White Stone, Va./
Woodberry Forest).

Martin, a midfielder, was a second team selection
after garnering USILA Honorable Mention All—America
and First Team All—ODAC honors last season. He tal-
lied 31 pointson 22 goals and nine assists in 2003 and
enters his final campaignwith 73 career points on 56
goals and 17 assists.

A defenseman, Grumbine was an honorable men-

‘ tion selection after earning First Team All-ODAChon-

ors last season. He was a major cog in the Generals’
defense which allowed an average ofjust 5.93 goals per
game, third in Division III. He also picked up 37 ground
balls on the season.

Sanders joined Grumbine on the Preseason Honor-
able Mention All-America team. An Honorable Mention
USILA All-American last season, he posted a .608 save
percentage and ranked second in Division III in goals-
against average (5.89). He enters his final campaign with
a .602 career save percentage.

Washington and Lee begins the 2004 season on Feb-
ruary 20 as it travels to Greensboro College for a 3:30
pm contest.

Wednesday, January 21

THIS WEEK’S SCHEDULE

Tuesday, January 20 Thursday, January 22 Friday, January 23 Saturday, January 24 Sunday, January 25
0 Open 0 M Basketball at Emory 0 Open 0 W Basketball at 0 Wrestling at Ursinus 0 Swimming at
& Henry-- 7:00 Hollins-- 7 :00 Quad--11 :00 Gettysburg--1:00

0M Basketball vs. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan--3:00

0W Basketball at Emory
&'Hemy

0 Track at Susquehanna--
TBA

Ring-tum Phi: a century/is tradition

 

637 Waddell St.
Lexington, Va. 14450

(540) 464-9042

Fax (54o)4o4-esoo

Golf Etiquette Tip of the Week:

Make sure you concentrate or you might

ﬁnd yourself sbunking the ball.

aaax=z:aaa=eei'isix.
ragsazazwgsz

5T5TRAVBL.C°M
Joaamaars msazamraxapexau:

      

PHI
SPORTS

 

 rsW.s°aas§}asl1taa.rs.sem zf"

   
  
  

Sell Tri {am task, 60 Rec!

Raw mag On~(ctmpus Reps
Call for gram: discounts

. .

 

SPORTSWEAR

 

1-309«{»48~¢8-$9 I mmststtn-vc¥..z::m

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!

Space is 1in1ited! Book Now & Save!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 

 

 

  

PAGE 6



MONDAY,IANUARY 19,2004

Womens’ hoops wins 2 of 3 to even record

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L women’s basket-,
ball team won two of three games
this past week to improve even
their record to 7-7, 5-5 ODAC.
They have already. more than
doubled their 3 win total from all
of last year and currently sit in
6th place in the 12 team ODAC.

The Generals opened the
week at home on Tuesday
evening against Hollins. The first
half was tight, with W&L main-
taining a close 26-24 edge. Hollins
opened up a 17-6 run in the sec-
ond half to take a 50-40 lead with
just over 9 minutes to play. How-
ever, the Generals seemed deter-
mined to prevent Hollins from
notching their first ODAC victory
of the season as they closed the
game on 20-7 run led by fresh-
man forward Jessica Hunsinger
who recorded a career high 24
points and 17 rebounds. Sopho-
more guard Louisa Feve also had

. . C
3 Sohd an'ar°“nd game Wﬁh 14 COMING BACK. After winning two games this week, the Generals improved to .500.

points 11 rebounds and 5 assists.
The Generals were clearly aided by a decisive 47-33

V advantage in rebounds.

W&L traveled to Virginia Wesleyan on Friday
evening and came out of the gates cold, shooting a
woeful 6 of 27 in the first half to allow the Marlins
to open a 27-16 halftime for the Marlins. The start

 

  

COURTESY SPORTS INFORMA'I'ION
FRESHMAN MAXWELL COURTNEY

 

of the second half did not prove to be any better
for the Generals as they were down by as many as
13 points with 13 minutes remaining. Junior for-
ward Emily Barker hit a three pointer to spark an 1 1-
0 run that got the Generals back in the game. W&L
was ﬁnally able to take the lead at 39-37 when jun-

ior guard Bethany Dannelly hit a
pair of free throws with 3:39 left.
The Generals would not suc-
cumb the lead and connected on
their free throws down the stretch
to preserve a 49-44 win. W&L
shot a solid 16 of 20 from the line
in the second half to make up for
an otherwise poor shooting day
in which the Generals shot just
24% from the ﬂoor. They were led
by Feve’s 13 points and 9 re-
bounds. Senior forward Sarah
Michaels added 12 points and 9
rebounds. The loss dropped the
Marlins’ record to 3-8, 2-6 ODAC.

In the first half of Saturday’s
game at Lynchburg, the Generals
seemed that they would extend
their three game winning streak
as they opened a 35-25 halftime
lead. The Hornets opened the
second half on a 14-4 run to even
the _score at 39 with 13 minutes to
play. The score remained close
until the Hornets hit a three to
takea55-52 lead with 3:19remain—
ing to spark another run to close
the game with a 70-61 victory.
Along with very poor second half
shooting, the Generals were also
out rebounded 57-35 for the game. In the loss, W&L
was led by Feve’s 22 points and Darmelly’s 10 points
and 8 rebounds. The win improved Lynchburg’s
record to 5-7, 3-6 ODAC. The Generals face Maiy
Washington tonight in out of conference match-
up at the Warner Center.

 

Wrestling team finishes sixth in W&L Invitational

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — Freshman Maxwell
Courtney (Jeffersonville, Pa./La Salle College)
went 2-2 on the day and finished fourth in the
184-pound weight class as the Washington and
Lee wrestling team finished sixth at the 2004
Washington and Lee Invitational on Saturday
in the Warner Center.

Davidson finished the day as team cham-
pion (96.5), followed by Cumberland (74), Wash-
ington and Jefferson (60.5), Scranton (48),

Pensacola Christian (38) and W&L (5.5).

Courtney opened the day by pinning (2:31)
Washington and Jefferson’s Phil McCormick in
the quarterfinals, but fell to Donnie Scruggs
(Cumberland), 17-6, in the semifinals. In the con-
solation bracket Courtney defeated Patrick
Scandling (Davidson) with a 6-3 decision, but
couldn’t hold on in the consolation finals, fall-
ing to Trevor Needham (Scranton), 4-2.

The individual champions on the day were
Davidson sophomore Patrick Coman (Tulsa,
Okla.) at 125, Davidson freshman Jim Avola
(Montague) at 133, Davidson sophomore Matt

Leonard (Pompton Plains, N.J.) at 141,
Pensacola’s Steve McGettrick at 149, Davidson
senior Adam Sperling (Philadelphia, Pa.) at 157,
Davidson freshman Marcus Boyd (Durham,
N.C.) at 165, Davidson senior Marc O’Hair (Al-
exandria, Va.) at 174, Cumberland sophomore
Eric McCray (Miami, Fla.) at 184, Cumberland
junior Stephen Westbeld (Kettering, Ohio) at
197 and W&J sophomore Ken McDonald
(Washington, Pa.) at 285.

W&L will be back on the mat next Satur-
day morning at 11:00 am when it competes in
the Ursinus Quadrangular. '

   

Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

The Johns Hopkin Post-Baccai ureate
Premedical Programi prepares college

graduates with stong cademi
apply to the best '
them the persona attentio ,
science and mat Courses, ans
academic advising

eCi|C_

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a
career as a docto apply by March 1.

For more information, visit

records to
sch ols by giving
he necessary

www.jhu.edu/potstbac or call 410-516-7748.

DI’ :  Wantto become a doctor.”

  
     
      
  

IOHNS HOPI{li\i‘S

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

lity:

“I don’t have the
required courses
  for medical school.

77

 

L‘

PAGE 7

.  LIFE

MIBANMCRGAN
ARts&lrrrFDr1oR

mm m
MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2004

Washington and Lee student brings international experiences

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

In just a few short months, a W&L sophomore
will celebrate a milestone birthday. N 0, he won’t be
trying for 21 shots at the Palms (never a wise choice)
or traveling to the ABC store for the ﬁrst time. Rather
Ethan Jameson will be saying good-bye to his twen-
ties because on April 29, 2004, he celebrates his thir-
tieth birthday.

Yes, his thirtieth birthday. Ethan grew up and
graduated from high school in Durban, South Africa.
Though he was accepted to college in South Africa
following his graduation he simply had no means to
pay for it. Instead, he went to work, tried to put his
dreams of college behind him and enjoyed a suc-
cessful career doing advertising work. While work-
ing in South Africa, Ethan received an invitation to
travel to Kuwait to start the creative department of
an international ad agency. He spent four years in
Kuwait, and remembers the time fondly. “It gave me
the opportunity to travel,” he explains. “In four years
in the Middle East I traveled to nineteen different
countries.” '

The Middle East was “not at all what I imag-
ined,” Ethan recalls. First “it was hot, damn hot,”
which might have been expected, but “the people
are so humble. It surprised me because Kuwait pro-
duces 5% of the world oil and has the highest GDP,
but you get there and some things still seem back-
ward... What struck me was the importance of the
family structure. Family and religion are so important
to these people.” Ethan was working in Kuwait dur-
ing 9/11 and remembers the day and the shock felt
through the entire Middle East vividly. Walking
through the city, “a man came up to me, grabbed my
hand, and said ‘I'm really sorry for what’s happen-
ing to your country’ in the little English that he knew.
I’m not an American, but I’m white, light haired and
blue eyed. That’s when my heart went out to them
[Middle Eastemers].”

Try as he might, he just couldn’t stop thinking
about college. On a whim he decided to apply for a

Lip Sync marks twentieth year

green card to the United States. In order to curb immi-
gration, the USA limits the amount of green cards, or
visas, it hands out. Annually it awards 50,000 visas to
immigrants who come from countries that have very
low past immigration rates—less than 50,0()0 immi-
grants to the USA in the last ﬁve years. Applicants
must have graduated from high school or have two
years work experience. Ethan says he simply “sent in
my $40 dollars and forgot about it.” A few months
later he received a letter informing him that a com-
puter had randomly selected his name from a pool of
over one half million to receive a green card. Ethan
had managed to win the green card lottery!

He then decided he was going to go attend col-
lege in the United States, no light decision. “I’m the
ﬁrst person in my immediate family to go to college.
I’m the ﬁrst member of my immediate family to even
graduate from high school,” Ethan explains. Further-
more, he was very concerned about his family back in
South Africa. While he was working in Kuwait he had
been helping his family ﬁnancially, and he knew his
monetary situation would only become tougher when
he quit working.

Nonetheless, he began researching good jour-
nalism schools, the career he hoped to pursue. Ethan
knew he wanted to go to a small liberal arts school,
but he couldn’t ﬁnd a small school with a journalism
program. He came to the conclusion that he was
going to have to sacriﬁce small size to get a quality
journalism education. However, “I kept coming
across W&L. The more I learned about it, the more I
was like, wow!” Ethan explains.

Even though W&L might not be the traditional
school for an older student to choose, Ethan ap-
plied to W&L and decided he was going to do any-
thing to gain admission to the school. In fact, Ethan
ﬂew all the way from Kuwait just for an admission
interview at W&L, the only school he even inter-
viewed at, and then immediately ﬂew back to Ku-
wait. When he arrived in Lexington he instantly fell
in love with the town. “We don’t have towns like
this in South Africa,” Ethan says. “I remember I
walked up from the main entrance, the one down

there by Lee Chapel, and I saw the colonnade and
said, ‘This is it.’ It’s such the quintessential col-
lege.”

He gained admission and in the fall of 2002
arrived as the oldest freshman in recent memory of
the university, a member of the Class of 2006. Un-
fortrmately, W&L was not immediately all that he
expected. “I got here and in the ﬁrst month made up
my mind I was going to transfer out,” Ethan recalls.
He stuck it out, and he credits pledging Chi Psi with
forcing him to stay. “They really kept me here. It’s
my little oasis of democracy in this sea of republi-
canism,” Ethan says with a smile.

Besides Chi Psi, Ethan fell in love with the aca-
demics offered by the University. “I came to W&L
for the journalism program, then I found out how
good the English program is, so I decided to double
major. I told my family and they said, ‘Why in the
world do you go to America to study English?”’

South Aﬁica is a former English colony.

Things haven’t been easy for Ethan. He was
forced to withdraw his little sister from private
school in South Africa because he could no longer
pay for it. The public school system in South Africa
is still recovering from the years of apartheid and
the quality of public education can vary drastically.
In addtion, Ethan’s older sister just got married,
and Ethan couldn’t be present for the wedding. She
also due to have a baby soon, and Ethan is not sure
how soon he’ll be able to see the infant.

The staff of the Ring-tum Phi recognizes that
diversity comes in all fomrs, in both traditional and
non—traditional deﬁnitions. Every week we strive to
feature a different student of diversity. If you know
a student who adds a little something different to
our university, and think they would make a great
spotlight in the Phi, please email Kelly Jo Larsen at
1arsenk@wlu.edu and nominate them.

Greeks: read this to make, keep friends

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT ARrs8cL1rE Eorron

The 20"'Annual SARAH (Stu-
dentsA_gainstRockbridgeAreaHun-
ger)LipSyncwillbeheldFriday,Jarru-
my 23, in the Pavilion. Doors will
open at 8:30 PM. Lip Sync was
formdedin 1984byJerryDamell, Di-
rector of Dining Services with the
prooeedsgoingtoﬁghtMultipleScle—
rosis.

After a few years the proﬁts
started going to the 10-

Brassil, StevenMarinos, andlitendra

Shrestha
Taffe saidthatifnotforthestu-
dents,IJp Syncwouldnotbethesuc-
oess that it is. The fraternities and so-
rorities haveputtheirfullweightbe-
hind this event. There are no parties
schednledforthatevening., and most
students attend the event. The physi-
calplantalsodoesmuchfortheevent
'IlreysetuptliePavilior1f()r'Ir'p Sync.
Last year, the University used
leftover money to send 225turkeys
to food banks for

cal food banks. The
money is split between
Rockln'dgeAreaRelief
Association, Buena
V1staFoodPantry, and
Natural Bridge/
Glasgow Food Pantry.
The food pantries

Tlmnksgiving, divid-
ing the food propor-
tionally among the
food pantries.

This is the ﬁrst
year that the winning
actwillreceiveaner1-
graved trophy that

send Washington and
Leealistoffoodthattheyrreed Last
year, Washington and Lee raised
26,761 pounds of food for the three
pantries.

Apart from advisor JolmTaffe,
Lip Sync is student organized Presi-
dentofLipSyncthisyearisAnsel
Sanders, Vice President is Thonms
Worthy and Pierce Owings is also
onthecommittee. Next yearWor1hy
willbePresident, OwingswillbeVroe
Presidentand acurrentﬁeshman will
be appointed to the committee.
“This provides continuity to the
event,” said Taife.

Thisistheﬁrstyearforanew
committee that will be responsible
video taping the event headedby Pro-

ﬁessorDeMaria. ThemembersareFr1'c

theywillkeepforone
year. Another ﬁrst for Lip Sync is

thatitwillfollowa“Gor1gShow”for— ‘

mat. Ifthejudgesﬁndtheactbad
enough, they will hit the gong and
the act must stop. This is to keep
the offensive acts that have some
times been done in the past years
check.
Actswillbechargeda$100en-
try fee, and admission to the event
will be $10. Free snacks and bever-
ages will be included Sign-ups for
acts will be Tuesday and Wednes-
dayinfrontoftheco-op. Theorder
willbedeterminedbyadrawingheld
Thursday night attended by a rep-
resentative from each act. Fraterni-
tiesareallowedtohaveorreactwliile
sororities may have three.

BY JEB Bnooxs
FDITOR IN CHIEF

Greek life is easily the
most prevailing force at Wash-
ington and Lee and wields a
great deal of power over our
entire community. The impor-
tance of Greek life cannot be
questioned. Its significance
extends to Greeks and non-
Greeks alike. Whether you
like it or not, you must deal
with its realities. Because of
its blinding power, fraternity
men and sorority women can
miss out on some great oppor-
tunities.

Greeks at W&L must not
fall victim to the hatefulness that
pervades many Greek organiza-
tions at other institutions. Be-
have in a welcoming way. This
attitude guarantees a better col-
lege experience than the alter-
native. Instead of kicking
people out of a party, say
“hello.”

Last Saturday night was
tear night. The party-night of
party-nights at W&L. On this
pinnacle of our famed party-

scene, I made a stop at every
house, and I felt welcomed at
each one. My experience
proved that Dubyuhnellers are
gentlemen. Though it sounds
strange, I think Robert E. Lee
would be proud of tear night.

There is still room for im-
provement, however. A ten-
dency exists at W&L for
freshmen to pledge a house
and stop there for three years.
A good college experience is
about a collection of memo-
ries. Imagine how many more
great memories you could
have if you don’t pigeonhole
yourself into a solitary group
of friends. -Don’t get me
wrong, your fraternity or so-
rority will provide great
friends, just don’t allow them
to be your only ones. The
Greek house you choose (or
choose not) to join is'only
one part of your life. Don’t
let it dictate more than it has
to.

Worse than never meeting
new people is losing touch
with hallmates, classmates and
other acquaintances. During

\

your freshman year, you get
to know a lot of people. Dur-
ing your sophomore year, it
becomes easy to lose touch
with many of them. It is
shameful to see former
friends stop talking (or worse
yet, become bitter enemies)
just because of their respec-
tive Greek organizations.

To use a personal ex-
ample, I swam against the
tide. My roommate is not in
my fraternity. When we
were freshmen, he and I
joined different houses. We
have remained friends and
live together despite the fact
that we don’t share letters.
We share something more, a
true friendship. I would be
willing to argue that no-
where in any fraternity or
sorority bylaws does it say
that members may not remain
friends with non—members.
None of this is to say that
fraternities and sororities
don’t provide a venue for
lifelong friendships to de-
velop, just that there is more
out there than “frat—bros.”

On another note, we can
all agree that the Greek sys-
tem at W&L feeds a hierar-
chy. I firmly believe that it is
phony. No house is inher-
ently better or worse than an-
other. Every group of guys
or girls is awesome for their
own reasons. Again, my ex-
perience from last Saturday
night comes to mind. Stand-
ing back and looking at each
party from a distance, I real-
ized something. One W&L
party is pretty much like any
other. Put simply, each was
just a Washington and Lee
fraternity party. None was
identifiable by more than the
shape of the basement.
Avoid the tendency to buy
into that hierarchy. Sorry to
burst your bubble, but it ain’t
real.

So, in my humble and un-
knowing opinion, college is
about new experiences. It is
easy for Greeks to miss out
on some of them. Take my ad-
vice, don’t pigeonhole your-
self. Go make some new
memories.

W&L Mock Convention Parade

Downtown Lexington

Friday, January 30th at 10:30 a.m.

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

University
Cleaners

THE CLEANEST or TI-IE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING,
  LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Great Service
First-Rate Quality

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterationsj

Submit
your

Quick Hits

to

anonymous

phi@wlu.edu

Happy Birthday, Erin!
Have a great one.

Your pals,
]B, KW, CA, MM, CK, KH, BTK,
KJL 86 THE REST OF THE PICA
CREW

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie
in an
international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
wvvw.tripienine.org

Torn James Company

Let us help you look and feel
Custom and Ready Made Suits

Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories

Gi t Certi icates Available

Contact Adam Williams

C Adam.Williarns@tomjamesretail.com

Interviews?
Internship?
V Special occasion?

your best!!

and Sports Coats

Student Packages &

for an appointment or
with questions

540-815-4557

 

Her 8

THE “Elf

 

MEGANMORGAN
ARTS&LlFEEDl'lOR

mm m

ORD

MONDAY, JANUARY 19,2004

Students too quick to leave W&L, transfers all too common

No one ever said freshman year is easy.
There’s so much transition, away from parents,
away from the home you know, and away from
your comfort zone. As a freshman, we all had to
jump into the veritable wilderness that college is.
Some of us are more prepared than others, and we
all react to college in our own personal way. Most
students learn to embrace the freedom.
Most learn to cope with the changes.
But from time to time, some students
just decide to give up, pack it in, and
leave.

I’m very up—front about my feelings towards
transferring. The idea bothers me. So many times,
it’s done for the wrong reasons.

The one that really peeves me is the “relation-
ship—induced-transfer,” in which the guy orgirl
transfers back to a school closer to the significant
other. Doesn’t that idea make you want to vomit?
I have a problem with someone even considering
sacrificing their college experience, their well-
needed rite of passage, or even their future for a
high school relationship which will probably not
stand the course of time. Especially if that person
planned to leave a great school, and a great edu-
cation, to return to a random community college
to be with that special someone. Now maybe I’m
a pessimist. Maybe, in some cases, these rela-
tionships occasionally go the distance and things

 

work out for the best. But, honestly, if it’s a seri-
ous relationship, it makes sense that both people
can agree to handle the distance and not sacriﬁce
their chosen paths. To me, transferring for some-

one else seems like a cardinal sin.
Some people transfer for themselves. Maybe
they just don’t feel comfortable at the school
they’ve ended up at. We can

ABSOLUT FRATLORD_ all imagine cases like these.

If any true W&L frat lord were

TIM  ‘O4 at Swarthmore or Middlebury

or some other liberal haven, I
can certainly understand their desire to leave. Yet,
the idea of leaving still bothers me. Really, how
can you know, truly know, that it’s the wrong place,
if you don’t give it a chance? So many times, it
seems people are all too ready to call it quits with-
out even actually giving themselves a chance to
thrive in the exciting, new, unfamiliar situation
they’re in,

At W&L we do things differently than most
schools, so naturally the transferring issue is dif-
ferent as well. In Lexington, everything has a
Greek tinge, so it should come as no surprise that
the transferring issue can be somewhat of a Greek
issue." Consider the situation of a freshman guy
who wants so desperately to get into Fraternity
X, but for whatever reason, does not get a bid. In
the hurt feelings and confusion that follows, that

Athletes aggravated by P.E.

Hamill Jones has been an integral part of the
Washington and Lee men’s basketball team for four
years. But he might only get credit for one.

Jones, who says he did not realize he needed to
register for Intercollegiate Basketball after his fresh-
man year, will have to petition the Faculty Executive
Committee (FEC) in order to receive the customary
two—ﬁfths physical education credit for competing
on a intercollegiate team for at least two seasons.
The current P.E. system does not

  

Hampden-Sydney and Bridgewater College require
no physical education, others do have P.E. pro-
grams as part of their liberal arts curriculums. All
students at Centre and Roanoke College have to
take a Health and Human Performance course in
order to graduate. However, Roanoke’s student-
athletes are exempt from taking an additional P.E.

course, otherwise required for non-athletes.
Many W&L athletes say they should also re-
ceive exemptions from the P.E. pro-

reward students with credit past """"""""  """"""""" " gram because of their already strin-
two seasons of participation. gent commitments to intercollegiate
“I fully recognize I made a mis— ' TROITER athletics and the possibility of in-

 

take,”saidJones. “Butlspendsomuch
time year—round with basketball and school trying to deal
with fulﬁlling P.E. credits is ahassle.

“Athletes should get a P.E. credit for every
season he or she competes.” I

Jones is just one of many student—athletes
unhappy with W&L’s current P.E. curriculum.

According to the university’s catalog, “an [in-
tercollegiate] course may be repeated once giving
the student of a maximum of two terms credit for a
single sport. No more than four terms of credit will
be recognized for intercollegiate participation by
multiple sport athletes.” This means that one—sport
athletes must take three P.E. classes and two—sport
athletes must take one. All students must com-
plete ﬁve P.E. courses in order to graduate.

“I feel strongly that ﬁve [classes] is not that
much to ask,” said Director of Physical Education
Jan Hathom, who was a PE. major and two-sport
athlete in college. “I was exposed to other types of
P.E. because I was limited to [receiving only two
credits in college for intercollegiate participation]

W&L’s modem P.E. curriculum is, in part, a result
of the administration’s decision that eliminated subsi-
dized athletics in 1954. W&L instituted a PE. program
that was intended to supplant the student body’s
focus on major college athletics. Coaches were pro-
moted to faculty status and RE. classes became part
of the core general education requirement.

“There are many girls that only know how to
do certain things,” said Hathom. “This exposure
is positive for them and creates adequate partici-
pants from the classes they take.”

While many schools of W&L’s size such as

Q What was the hot news on the front page of a
1954 Wall Street Journal? Fish sticks, the “bone—

less oblongs roughly four inches long.” Ah, life in
simpler times T

 

Q Lalli says, “Our fraternity is the coolest. We
get all the chicks.”

Q Pledgeship needs to involve more wild ani-
mals, preferably from other continents.

Q Mary Baldwin has stand-up urinals for women.
Q Can I get a formal deﬁnition of a hook—up?

Q Has anyone else noticed the alarming number
of l0—year—olds working out in the gym?

Q -Way to go, Habitat! Change challenge was an
excellent idea.

“I think if you’re a varsity athlete [taking a
PE], it is stupid,” said Matt Fink, a three-year starter
at attack for W&L’s men’s lacrosse team and a mem-
ber of the Student Athlete Mentor Group (SAMS).
“The time spent practicing and playing a sport is
exponentially greater that what you’d do in PE.

“It puts athletes in risk of injury and if an athlete -

gets hurt, then the school shoots itself in the foot.”

Even though several students play more than
one sport on campus, those athletes still have to
take an additional P.E. course. This usually means
these athletes are forced to take a P.E. course in
addition to playing on a varsity squad.

Instead of lifting weights with her teammates
freshman year, Kelly Taffe-—a senior standout on
both the women’s lacrosse and ﬁeld hockey tearns—-
registered for weight training and lifted with her class
in order to complete the RE. requirement.

“It’s not  said Taffe. “I don’t think ath-
letes should have to take [P.E.] classes.”

"lherearesomethingsatthisschoolth.atarelor1g-


who directed the school’s PE. programlast year. I

“The P.E. program is one of them.”

O’Connell says that in correlation with the
upcoming review of the curriculum, the athletic
department will evaluate the current P.E. program.

“We understand that athletes are participat-
ing year-round and we’re looking at what the stu-
dent—athletes are putting into their sports and mak-
ing a change to help the student-atl1lete,” he said.
“We’ll look and see if the P.E. curriculum needs to
be rethought or modernized.”

Q Today is the 585th anniversary of Rouen sur-
rendering to Henry V making Normandy part of
England.

Q If you know anyone in Iowa, call them NOW
and tell them to attend the caucuses in support of
Dick Gephardt. Do your part to make Mock Con’s
prediction right.

Q Dirty grout makes me want to slit my wrists.

Q The fact that it’s a Louis Vuitton bag does not
justify wearing black shoes while carrying a brown
bag.

Q The Chic FX far surpasses the Mach 3 Turbo
in every possible way.

Q Seven of the undergraduate faculty have four
degrees and none have ﬁve, but two of the law
faculty do.

Q Ifit’s going to be so cold in Microbex, it should
at least snow so the winter weather isn’t so n1iser—
able.

Q Who was that random guy wearing a W&L
hat at the Three Doors Down concert?

Q Social hugging is wholly inappropriate. Social
kissing is even worse~— we’re not French, after all.
What’s wrong with a hearty handshake?

guy inevitably contemplates the beneﬁts of trans-
ferring and of leaving our “elitist” Greek system
behind.

Furthermore, the small size of our school can
make it tough to bear when someone’s skeletons
are dragged out of the closet. When seemingly
everyone in Lexington knows your deepest se-
crets and most embarrassing stories, running
away sure sounds like a good idea. Nothing is
worse than a student who has her most secret
stories broadcast in a very public way. A solu-
tion would seem to be transferring.

But is it? Is transferring really the answer?

I don’t think it is, and here’s why. Life isn’t
always as convenient as we want it to be. Things
are rarely perfect. If things were, then I’d be ac-
cepted into graduate studies at Harvard, on a fast-
track to becoming a history professor and even-
tually teaching right back here in Lexington. Un-
fortunately, things don’t always work out so eas-
ily. I have to work to achieve my goals. The
situation might not be the best, but that doesn’t
mean I should give up on myself.

And that’s why transferring bothers me. I
just can’t help it — it just seems like throwing up
the white ﬂag and saying “Alright, you win, I’m
just not cut out for it here.” It seems so much like
giving in to the situation, without even giving
yourself a chance.

Chris Jordan was a brother of my fraternity A

who graduated last year. Coming from the out-
skirts of Philly, I’ m not really sure he knew what to
expect at W&L. When he came to Lexington for
the ﬁrst time, it was the furthest south he had ever
been. Throughout his four years here, he kept
close ties with his girlfriend from home, even trav-
eling home on weekends from time to time to see
her. And once, on an Ultimate Frisbee trip to
Florida, he admitted to me that he never felt 100%
comfortable as a W&L student. He had contem-
plated transferring to a school closer to his home.
But Chris Jordan never gave in. W&L was not the
perfect school for him, but he stayed the course,

and now has a pretty cushy job in Atlanta. Who’s .

to say how things might have been different for
him had he transferred. Maybe things would be
better, maybe worse. But he never raised a white
flag, and that, to me, means a lot.

Inevitably we ﬁnd ourselves in uncomfortable
situations. Given the choice, we would never have
to deal with them, but unfortunately that choice is
not ours to make. All we can do as people is de-
cide how to react, how to respond to the situa-
tions we must face. And so, to all you W&L stu-
dents who are thinking about calling it quits, here’s
a message: whatever you decide, make it for the
right reasons, and stay true to yourself. Before
giving up, give yourself a chance.

HAZING

 

Gimme Veemies. These cadets look like they are really enjoying these hazing practices, would.n’t you?
The Virginia Military Institute has since put an end to such activity. We aren’t sure how or why a Phi-
tographer from years past was  pictures of this covert Virginia Military Institute activity. What We
do know is that \Washington and Lee freshman pledges should take note. It could be Worse. You could
have to wear a big red “VMI” on your front. Enjoy the rest of your pledgeship.

Q Mike Doyle was great, but Alice Steinbach was
better. I love you, Alice. Come back to me.

Q Ooh! The mayor of Boston is coming to speak
at Mock Con. Maybe we can hear what the police
are doing to get ready for the convention.

Q Is it just me, or is blood a lot darker when it
comes out in larger quantities?

Q Niceness is overrated. Honesty is more im-
portant.

Q Hey fraternities: Can we keep the sodomy and
bestiality out of Lip Sync this year?

Q More on Lip Sync: Who else is excited about
Thomas Worthy performing as emcee?

Q The art in Wﬂharns School this semester is a
huge improvement over last semester’s installation
and an even bigger one over the awful roof tar art
we were cursed with last year.

Q Is the inGeneral magazine ever going to pub-
lish? What are they doing with all the money they
received from the EC?

Q President Huntley was a terriﬁc speaker.

Q Elixirs peldgeship is going on. Watch out for
the monochrome outﬁts. ‘

Q The touch, the feel of cotton, the fabric of
our lives.

Q Style tip of the week: Store knit ties rolled up
lest they stretch out.

Q The Phi’s printer is about to celebrate its 10th
birthday. We hereby extend a heartfelt invitation to
all W&L students, especially the EC budget
allocators, to the party.

‘ Q Ansel Sanders just won a Celebrating Student

Success award for his work to save Spring Term.
What have you done to save oiir beloved Spring
Term?

Q Lexington Coffee Shop’s days are numbered. 4

The Daily Grind is fantastic. The Peppermint Latte
and Caramello are especially good. Thanks a “latte”
for moving into Microl_.ex.

Q J eb Brooks lost his blue North Face ﬂeece be-
tween the Pole Houses and Kappa Sig, but is hesi-
tant to publish a Campus Notice. If you find it, call
x4060 or e—mail br0oksj@wlu.edu.

Q To the person who spit on the ﬂoor in the Com-
mons: That’s nasty.

Q Writing these is harder than it seems. Submit
your anonymous Quick Hits to phi@wlu.edu,

Y}

 

