 

I

-t

 

R1.

Alumni S cam ,

BY KYLE WASS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

A This past weekend, Washington andLee alumni from the
class of 1953 celebrated their ﬁftieth reunion, and graduates
from many other classes attended the reunion festivities.

While all alumni were welcome in Lexington, events
were specially geared toward classes celebrating reunions
from a class ending in ‘3 ’ or in ‘8’; members of these classes
were “Reunionists.” Speciﬁcally for the classes celebrat-
ing their ﬁftieth and twenty-ﬁfth reunions — the classes of

p 1953 and 1978, respectively — there were Reunion Calyx

Knementos prepared. These included bits of information
about the years of 1953 and 1978 at W&L, as well as be-
fore and after photos of graduates along with a brief biog-
raphy of what the graduates’ lives are like now.

,4, The alumni reunion events began on Thurs., May ,1,
although the class of 1953 was welcome at the Greenbriar
Resort in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.beginning on
Mon., April 28. Events on Thursday included tours of the
‘campus, a class of ‘53 memorial service at Lee Chapel,

‘several receptions, and the Opening ,Assembly for Re-

union 2003 at Lee Chapel. At the assembly, President

Thomas Burish welcomed all the alumni, and the Omicron '

Delta Kappa Spring Initiation was held. The assembly
I {was followed by a reception in Lee House with the presi-
dent. Over the course of the rest of the weekend, alumni
participated in events such as Reunion Seminars on “Pon-
dering Tomorrow,” where alumni “discuss[ed] the future
Afrom a variety of perspectives,” according to the alumni
Web site. There were also outing club activities, a jour-
nalism exposé, a ﬁtness center open house and a number
of sports games for alumni to watch. However, Tom Lovell
“(‘9l), the Assistant Director of Alumni Relations, said that
the most participation is traditionally for the Saturday
evening Alumni Celebration.
Lovell said that W&L had “more than 800 alumni re-
 ‘(turning for the weekend, with more than 1800 participants
in the weekend events.” He said that even for the alum-
nae only 5 or 10 years out, the physical state of the univer-
sity is much different. “Sorority row is new for nearly ev-
eryone,” he said.
>( For the older classes, Lovell noted that women alumni
was certainly a change. Sam Perkins (‘80, ‘83L), one of the
local founders of Chi Psi fraternity, said that there is “j ust
as much construction now as in_ 1976!” He also com-
mented that, although there were no women attending
' ‘classes at Washington and Lee, “we just had to import
them,” so having women on campus does not feel like a
big difference.
Washington and Lee students may be interested to
Alcnow that Perkins felt that it is a “widely held opinion”
among most of his group of alurrmi that “getting rid of
spring term is a terrible idea.”

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

PHI

  

‘ :.siv‘*f.ts*t at   ~
“ "“‘ .‘,‘/A mm

The Itztdem‘ voice of War/raglan and Lee Utiivertzh time 7897 (D

T
 EB BROOKS / T/ie K1/lg-ti/I/I P/Jz

  

GLORY DAYS. (Top) President Thomas Burish’s SUV advertises the
Kathekon and Order of Omega carwash to improve I-81 Saturday.
(Middle) Two alumni from the class of ‘68 chat  a Saturday
afternoon tailgate (Bottom) Trevor Norris ‘95 stands withjeapordyfs
Alex Trebec Norris has been onjeapordy ﬁve times in the past year
and will be on this week’s Tournament of Champions  Torn
Madison,‘53 litom]acl<sonvIlle,Fla tookabreakﬂ7omFrveStarGenetal
activities to try on a jacket at Alvin—Dennis Saturday afternoon.

»»   eeia1£s:hmw>iu;.--

“with it both a

i world’s leading

4 tute in Stockholm,

BY CALEY ANDERSON

‘' ASSISTANT OPINIONS EDITOR

Senior Patrick Lawler, a pre-med
student, has been selected as one of
the few American students to receive

,(a Fulbright scholarship. His area of

medical interest is heart disease, and
the honor of be-
ing a Fulbright
scholar carries

$22,000 stipend,
and the chance to
study abroad
with some of the

experts on heart
disease at the
' Karolinska Insti-

Sweden.

Lawler ex-
pressed great in-
terest in working
with the project leader, Dr. Goran
Hansson, a well known scientist in the
ﬁeld of atherosclerosis research, and
a member of the committee that de-
cides the Nobel Prize in the ﬁelds of
“Physiology or Medicine.” “He does
good research, obviously, so it’ll be a
great opportunity to study under
him,” said Lawler.

+ Lawler, a Kappa Sigma oﬂicer, is

highly respected by many at W&L.
“Patrick is extremely even tempered and
he’s not easily ruﬁled by things. He

. handles adversity very well,” said Erich
.4. .
Uffelman, an associate professor of

chemistry. “Among the things that stand
out about Patrick is that, for his age, he ’s
a very mature, sensible and reliable per-

V‘ son and has great loyalty to people. A

lotofpeopletrusthimagreatdp .”
Lawler’s work for the 2003-04 aca-
demic year will largely be devoted to

4 participating in a team that will under-

take serious research into vascular im-
munology. The team will consist of sci-

 

entists from around the globe, and, of
course, Lawler himself. Lawler gives
no small portion of the credit for his
success to the Washington & Lee com-
munity- “The factl did [get the scholar-
ship] is really due to the help I’ve re-
ceived ﬁom my friends, family, research
advisors and professors,” he said.

Lawler’s interest in cardiovascu-

lar research is due to the extreme im-

pact of the disease in modern society.

“I became fascinated by heart disease
during my experience volunteering in
Stonewall Jackson Hospital’s emer-
gency room, its cardiac rehabilitation
unit and as a member of the Lexington
Rescue Squad,” Lawler said. “One of
the greatest current challenges to medi-
cal science is heart disease. . ..In many
countries, as in the U.S., cardiovascu-
lar disease, or CVD, claims more lives
than any other cause of death.

. “That’s also the case in Sweden,
where between 46 and 47 percent of
mortality is due to diseases of the cir-
culation organs,” he added. “What’s
interesting is the diversity of risk fac-
tors that contribute to this trend.
Lifestyles vary throughout the world,
causing each country to struggle with
CVD in its own way,” he said.

And what are his future plans?
“I’m going to get an M.D. and a Ph.D.

 

FLAK

from McGill Faculty of Medicine in
Montreal. That’s a seven year pro-
gram I’ve been accepted into. After
more residency and research fellow-
ship training I’m planning on.becom-
ing a cardiologist and biomedical re-
searcher—treating patients and do-
ing research,” Lawler said.

’ Linking his
experience to a
current campus
hot topic, Lawler
stated his belief
that none of his
success in this
ﬁeld would have
been possible
without the expe-
riences and ad-
vantages pro-
vided to him by
the Spring Term
system. My in-
terest in study
abroad was only
facilitated by a biology trip I took to
Costa Rica to study tropical botany
during Spring Term my freshman year;
both in terms of sparking an interest,
and making my application more com-
petitive for the Fellowship. Also, the
experience has helped me get into
medical school. When I interviewed
at Harvard Medical School, for ex-
ample, one of the interviewers told me
that the fact that I had studied abroad
would be really helpful to my applica-
tion. McGill Faculty of Medicine in
Montreal (where I’ll go after Sweden)
told me the same thing. I Without
spring term, science majors don’t have
the opportunities for specialized
study abroad—a signiﬁcant strength

that makes our school’s course offer-

ings “the envy of larger institu-
tions”——as missing classes tends to
interrupt the cadence of the pre.med
course schedule. Also, my
coursework in Endocrinology, Para-
sitology and independent research in

       

 “Flak, Lawler win prestigious awards

‘.

microbiology were all factors that
made me competitive for the Fellow-
ship and medical school, but that
would not have been available to me
if Spring Term were abolished.”
Another W&L student to win a
prestigious scholarship this Spring is
Agnes Flak. Flak, a senior double
majoring in journalism and theatre,
was recently named a Thomas J.
Watson fellow. The award carries with
it a $22,000 stipend. This Fellowship
will allow Flak to examine the world-

wide‘problem known as “forced dis- -

placement,” otherwise known as the
problem of reﬁrgees, individuals who
are forced to emigrate or ﬂee their na-
tive countries due to war, ideology,
natural disaster or any other host of
catastrophes.

Flak, herself an immigrant ﬁom Po-
land to Germany following the fall of
the Soviet Union, will study this issue
by living among displaced and migrant
peoples who have been tom from their
native lands. She will visit six different
areas affected by forced displacement,
including the Balkans, Tanzania, Kenya,
Sri Lanka, Australia (a nation which re-
ceives many refugees for the purposes
of sending them off to another desired
country) and Mexico.

Flak, proﬁcient in seven lan-
guages (ﬂuent in ﬁve), cares deeply
about the problem she plans to study.
Besides her own history in the chaotic
experiences of a Polish immigrant to
post-Cold War Germany, Flak has lived
twice in rural Bolivia as a part of the
Shepherd program, experiencing ﬁrst-
hand the conditions of the third world.

An international student from her
adopted home of Germany, Flak has
found W&L to “open many doors.”
She cited the accessibility of W&L
faculty and the wide variety of pro-
grams and organizations on campus
as keys to her success.

Both Lawler and Flak will gradu-
ate this June.

eunite, u art

MONDAY, MAY 5, 2003

  

_]EB BROOKS / T/ze R1'll(g~fIII)/P/J1

Charity ball debuts this month

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

A new affair is being added to
Spring Term’s social calendar. Spring
2003 ushers in the Charity Ball for
Cystic Fibrosis, the brain-child of
sophomore Jonathan Leﬂer. The Ball,
to be held May 9 from 8 p.m.- ll p.m.
in Evans Dining Hall, is meant to,
“better the school ’s image within the
community and create an opportu-
nity outside of FD for the student
body as a whole to go dancing and
have a formal affair,” said Leﬂer, the
principle organizer of the event.

Entertainment for the Ball will
be provided by the Charlottesville
Swing Orchestra. Music from the
Big Band Era——swing, jazz and rag-
time will be performed. “The ﬁrst
rule about dancing in the nineteenth
century was that you (didn’t) have
to do it right, you just (had) to enjoy
it,” said Leﬂer, “it should be a fun
evening.”

According to Leﬂer, the event
is being hailed as the Independent
students’ formal.

The idea for the Ball came to
Leﬂer in the fall when he was talking

to some friends about how there
aren’t enough chances for the stu-
dent body to ask each other out.
“Also, around Homecoming, I heard
some freslnnen complaining about
how there was no dance,” he said.

Hors d’oeuvres and desserts
will be served and the community of
Lexington is invited. Press releases
about the event have appeared in
two Rockbridge County newspa-
pers and Alvin-Dennis is displaying
a ﬂyer about the event.

Several organizations are at-
tached to the Ball. The Committee
for the Charity Ball for the Beneﬁt of
Cystic Fibrosis is in charge of plan-
ning. The Nabors Service League
donated $1000 to the cause to pay
for refreshments and SOAR is also
helping out with the event.

The current plan is to make this
Ball an armual affair, although Leﬂer
said that there had to be a trial pe-
riod of two years before any deci-
sions were made. The committee’s
goal is for 100 people to attend.

V Cystic Fibrosis is a genetic,
potentially fatal disease affecting

SEE BALL, PAGE 5

Fifth service day approaches

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
STAFF RRITER

Saturday, May 10 marks the
ﬁﬁh armual Nabors Service Day.

Ashley Thompson ‘04 and Pe-
ter Thompson ’O3 are co-chairing
Nabors Service Day. Last year 200-
250 participated in the even . “Our
goal is to have more faculty involve-
ment this year,” commented chair
Ashley Thompson. Since its con-
ception, Nabors Service Day has
been entirely student run and most
of the participatants in the day’s
events are students. Jonathan’s par-

ents come every year to speak to the
students that are contributing their
time. In the past, their speeches have
been very moving and a highlight of
the day. Thompson also announced
that this year the first annual
McLaughlin Award will be presented.
Many activities have been
planned for this year’s day of ser-
vice. The chairs have been working
with Jeri Schaff, Executive Director
at United Way, to set up the organi-
zations where Washington and Lee
students will be working. Two car

SEE NABORS, PAGE 5

 

  

DREII r. IXIRWAN

OPINIONS EDHOR
EMAr;iqRwANB@wr1irDU
MONDAY, MAY 5,2003

 

Cut costs to save Spring Term

The sad truth is that Washington and Lee
can simply no longer afford Spring Term. With-
out an inﬂux of approximately $55 million or
$2.5 million per year, Washington Hall cannot
afford to hire enough new teachers to maintain
the class size and quality of education on which
the school prides itself.

Therefore, some belt-tightening measures
are necessary. We are glad to see that the D-
Hall is already making effort to cut costs by
using lower quality meat. Here are some other
suggestions.

One key area in which the school hemor-
rhages money is utilities. For starters, the Will-
iams School and the Science Center are grossly
over-air conditioned. Also, the Colonnade Cam
(which no one everwatches) and the bells in

 

’ necessary electricity.

Similarly, the drought has long been over
and the Front Lawn no longer needs to be wa-
tered with such frequency. In'fact, since the
school is in such dire straights, perhaps money
should no longer be spent to aerate, fertilize
and mow the lawn.

Opportunities for cost-cutting abound in
Laetitia Pate. W&L could probably save mil-
lions by eliminating the fro-yo machine alone
(and improve freshmen girls’ health). Also, they
could remove the ham from Chicken Cordon
Bleu. Imagine how much less costly each piece
of chicken ‘n cheese is.

Personnel cuts promise a bigger bang. The
new Vice-President for Administration, direc-
tor of University Collections and Burr Datz could
all be selectively non-rehired. The University
could also stop creating positions for recently
graduated alurrmi and fire all security guards
except Baner and Rexrode.

How about eliminating J avapalooza, all fra-
temities who failed to attract more than ﬁve

like SOAR, KEWL and GSA? Perhaps we
could sever ties with the Law School, change
our name to Washington and Lee College and
save money on letterhead.

If Spring Term is to be saved, the school

money. The Phi is eager to assist in this money-
saving endeavour.

Washington Hall and Lee Chapel eat up un- _

freshmen this year and EC funding to groups .

THE RiN<3-run PHI

On May 1, 2003, President Bush
signed into law a bill formally known
as the “Protect Act of 2003 ,” but which
has come to be known as the “Amber
Alert” bill. The nickname is derived
from the memory of a Texas girl, Amber
Hagennan, who, in 1996, was abducted
from her family and murdered.

The bill itself should appear to most
Americans as a perfectly ordinary and
laudable piece oflegislation. It greatly en-
hances penalties for child abduction and
youth sex crimes, bolsters the funding of
missing—child recognition programs, and
cracks down on child pomography. Most
importantly, it puts into eﬁect the “Amber
Alert’ ’program Thisprogramwilluse ra-
dio, television, billboards and the emer-
gency broadcast system to notify regions
of missing children in the  48-hour
period following abduction; a time, law-
makers say, when the child is most at risk
and most likely to be found

All these things are good ideas.
But the story of the bill is one of arnaz-
ing amounts of opposition and lack
of cooperation. The idea behind the
bill came from the families of kid-
napped and murdered children, and it
was widely thought in the Congress
that the bill would pass easily. But
some members of the House refused
to pass the bill unless pork-barrel rid-
ers to the bill were added on. Ordi-
narily, a few of these blockaders
would not be a problem, but one of
them, James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.),
was a member of the House Judiciary
Committee. He, the Republican leader,
along with the co-
operation of the
equally pro-pork
barrel Democrats

PINIONS
Pork politics slowd Ambe bill

MoDERATE’s MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

PHOTO COLRTESY uawwhtebouiegoo

FINALLY. President Bush, with the Smart family, at the signing of the Amber Act.

which United States citizens have come
to expect from their government. Stall-
ing and pork-barrel politics have be-
come commonplace. But we have rea-
son to be uplifted, and to have a re-
newed faith in our government alter the
events regarding
this particular bill.
Outrage and
criticism came to the

on the committee

I (especially Rep. Conyers, D-Mich.),

were effectively able to stall the bill’s
passage, refusing to let it pass com-
mittee until unnecessary regional
spending bills were tacked on to it.
Obviously, it is this sort of action

House from all
angles— families of kidnapped chil-
dren, members of the Senate, and even
President Bush angrily demanded that
Sensenbrenner and the Judiciary Com-
mittee allow the legislation to go for-
ward. Members of the House from both

parties pleaded with the Judiciary Com-
mittee to pass the bill. Under pressure
ﬁom both parties, the Committee ﬁnally
relented and allowed the bill to be voted
on, and it of course passed easily.

I offer you this story as a piece of
hope for the future of government.
There are politicians who use ques-
tionable ethics to get ahead, and who
use tactics similar to those used by the
members of the Judiciary Committee,
but when the chips are ‘down, our gov-
ernment works. The House stepped
up and demanded justice, and this criti-
cal bill passed. It shows you the things
we can accomplish when the parties
work together for a common cause.

  

will need to look forvcreative ways ‘to’-save  A

 
  

  te of the Week

“lt’s time for Democrats to be Democrats to
be Democrats.”

~Democ1atic presidential candidate and
rabble rouser Rev. Al Sharpton (D-N.Y.)

 

Founder J . Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief KatieJ. Howell
Associate Editor Jeb G. Brooks
2nd Associate Editor Kyle Wass
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Sports Editor Erin E. Julius
Asst. Sports Editor Donny Banks
Photographers CodyGabbard
Sreya Banerjee

Business Manager
Circulation Director
AdvertisingAssistant

Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum‘ Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone.‘ (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wIu.edu

(

Letter to the Editor

Kirwan wrong on morality of abortion

DearEditor,

Brett T. Kirwan has difficulty in stating his posi-
tion clearly (“Peterson case exposes abortion’s falla-
cies,” April 28), so let me state it for him. He believes
that babies can be (a)_in utero, or unborn, and (b) ex
utero, or born. Since the fact of being in one place rather
than another (i.e., mere geographic location) is irrel-
evant to babyhood, it follows that the moral prohibi-
tion on murdering babies applies to babies wherever
they may be. Therefore the moral prohibition on mur-
dering babies applies tobabies in utero.

' Now, whether or not this is a sound argument, it
is a distraction, and a silly one, to argue that pro-
abortionists believe that “unborn children are not hu-
man (beings).” It is a necessary condition for
someone’s being an unborn child that she is a human
being. According to Kirwan, pro-abortionists are in
the position of believing that human beings are not
human beings.

Since this is a ﬂat contradiction, applying the prin-
ciple of charity of interpretation requires that we do not
ascribe this belief to them if there is another interpreta-
tion available that is consistent with other things that
they say and that is not a ﬂat contraduction. I suggest
that they believe that what Kirwan calls “human be-
ings” are not human beings. Or, if he prefers, that what
he calls “unbom children” are not children. Or, if he
prefers again, that what he calls “babies in utero” are
not babies. They believe that Kirwan is mistaken in his
application of the terms “human being” and “child”
and “baby”. So, to state their position correctly, pro-
abortionists “believe that not-children (or not-babies)
are not human beings.” This is not a ﬂat contradiction.
Another way of putting this is to say that they believe
that embryos or fetuses are not human beings, or not
babies, or not children.

Is there a way to resolve this disagreement about
the appication or meaning of the term “human being,”
“child,” or “baby?” Not directly, I would suggest. Cer-
tainly, not in a newspaper article or a letter to the editor.
However, let me offer the following observations about
the pro-abortion position.

There are at least three pro-abortion arguments.
One argument is that the moral prohibition on murder-

 ACK: v  

“the beauty of the campus”

-Archer Frierson ‘73 -Bob Priddy ‘67

“no Saturday classes”

ing babies doesn’t apply to sorri'e“E:"2'ises“'c’>'f l<'ilIfn5g"’b'ﬁ3"""
bies, because some cases of killing babies are nofcasés  ~
of murdering babies. To give a deliberately far-feteched

example, if a baby is threatening my life, say, because
she is crawling towards a device that will set off a
nuclear bomb, and the only way to stop her from set-
ting off the bomb is by killing her, then it may be per-
missible to kill her, i.e., it may be permissible to kill a
baby in self-defense. This applies to cases of life-threat-
ening pregnancies.

The situation is more complicated in the case of
health-threatening pregnancies (e. g., if I have this baby,
I will never be able to have any more babies). If some-
one is threatening my health only, not my life, may I kill
her, if my options are restricted to either letting her
damage me, or killing her outright? People disagree here.
However, I certainly don’t see an argument that it is
obviously morally wrong to kill her, rather than, say,
lose the use of my legs. But it may nevertheless be
wrong. The point is that it is not obvious and that people
have arguments for an against. That said, there are abor-
tions that are not performed to protect the health of the
mother, even if that is the reason given.

Another pro-abortion argument is that the moral pro-
hibition on murdering babies does not apply to embryos
and fetuses, because they are not babies. According to
this argument, it is logically impossible to murder an em-
bryo or a fetus, just like it is logically impossible to mur-
der a cat. You can indeed kill a cat, but you can’t murder
a cat. This is the argument that relies upon the distinc-

tion I outlined above. And the truth of that distinction is, '

as I said, ‘not directly resolvable.

The third argument is the most commonly misstated
argument, even by the pro-abortionists themselves. This
is the argument that a woman may do what she wants
to her own body, in the sense that she can cut off her
own leg if she wants to. This argument would then be-
come the following: a woman may do what she wants to
that which is inseparable from her own body. Since
embryos and fetuses are inseparable from her body,
she may do what she likes to them. This third argument
is probably the weakest of the lot, not because of the
moral reasoning, which is actually defensible, but be-
cause of the factual claim that an embryo or fetus is

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

pg. .
“different restaurants”
-David Stoveall ‘69

“it’s more sedate”
-Ron Gold ‘7 3

PAGE 2

Ramsey reflects on
|ove’s labors lost

Admonishes Adonises to be careful ,

X

Recent happenings have caused me to write
a completely different type of piece for this week.
I have decided to stray entirely from my usual
banter about political happenings and on-carrﬁ‘
pus goings-on.

Instead I feel compelled to share some
thoughts on something far more personal. Mat-
ters of the heart have been a focus of thought fog
weeks, and I really need an outlet for what is in
my head. ,

Perhaps it is the time of year, perhaps it is a
sign of feeling a bit older and wiser at the end of
my college days, or perhaps these are just some
things that have been in my head all along, but
have been lost along the way until now. Or even
still, maybe it is a hodgepodge of all of these
things. This is just

 
 

is.
one young man’s --~—-——~l
musings, but I LEFTOF CENTER
h°P° it “an be °f NICK RAMSEY ‘03

some use to others
as well. 4‘

Love and attraction to me seem things that
exist on multiple levels and progress with the
passing of time in a relationship. However, their
genesis can truly show how sound such feelings
are and can serve as the basis of whether or not
these feelings are to be trusted. Always they are
not as the heart fails to be the most honest of
companions.

Relationships often begin with a physical ath‘
traction coupled with a love ofthe idea ofa per-
son. This conjured idea can be both beautiful
and dangerous. I believe there are ways to dis-
cern the difference. ‘

As one gets to know another, something must
be discovered to illustrate that the idea of this
person is more than that. There are glimmers seen
through the window of a person’s soul that let
you know this idea you have fallen in love with
is exactly who this person is.

From time to time, and in the most remarkable
of instances, these soulful insights reveal that
this person is indeed much more than your origi-
nal idea.

When this occurs, the affection of another is
truly worth pursuing. This is not to say that this
pursuance will always end in success, but none-
theless there are things to be learned from even

"'~'tl—-re«=harsh*est of romantic failures. This is where
‘ .’c“.‘o11ra‘;g‘e makes its entrance. These things are

never easy. A,

Honesty in matters of the heart is always the
best and only road to travel. A confession to this
special person of the things observed should be
shared. Gifts of ﬂowers, books and collections
of one’s favorite music can only do so much td‘
express true feelings. An honest word is the tru-
est of all communicators.

The facets of another that prove the idea
that has been loved are very explicit. They rum
far deeper than commonplace interests such as,
“We like all the same books, movies, foods,
etc.” Often these facets of a person’s true self
lie in shared hopes, dreams, worries and ideas
of faith.

Moreover, under the guise of infatuation, ev-
eryone thinks the other is a caring and signifi-
cant individual. However, proof of these_things
can only really come from their words and ac;
tions. Only then can one be sure that this person
is sincerely a loving and selﬂess person who,
can not only love you, but can be loved by you
as-well.

At this point you have to lay your heart out’
for either acceptance or rejection. Sadly, I know
of no case where there is a middle ground. This
is not to say that love is the immediate result
when your heart is accepted. '

is the step where affection can begin to grow".
and some day possibly become a love. But if this
step is never realized at all, then a relationship
can never progress beyond a superficial level.

Now I am sure that those of you who read.»
these thoughts would think they make a hope-
less romantic of me. You would be right. You would
also be right in thinking that this leads to more
heartbreak in life. To that I ask if your heart can-
not be broken, then what is it for? ”

And when heartbreak does occur, I merely
stop and scratch my head. I learn from these ro-
mantic suicides and take a pause before moving
on with life, looking still.

Lastly, I will close by saying this is one of
those times when I need to take my own advice.

  

“campus stores”
-Rust Cadwallader ‘98

 

 

 

PGWER. o1=

Inspired A.rt:'s't-ry

Accelerated Accieptance

Tme.<au:,«, any 5, 2903 at 5:30 _;J.m.
25% "1T"uin‘rm Discmustftrr Firs: }r’e::r*
RSVP at 226-4223

To be or not to be a graduate st dent? If you a ready j_-1§m_E_g; In our brand new pmscenlum theatre Y be or
to start your masters degree, the Regent University" not to be a Regent, grad ate stude. t? Come find out
School of Commu cation and t .e Arts wants you In be May 6th.

a part of the fail ‘03 class. ' .'s not {no 1315:. Just attend
3;" Agfesggjéggeftance eve t 0" Mag 6? **S|‘~'P Accelerated Acceptance

V ca n . V - '0 reserve your spa an rece we _ _

your admissions checkiistl You may even receive a Man’? Vs’ 2003 5'30 p'm'
twenty-fEve- pe ca 1 cﬂscount off the first years tuition. 25 /5 T3530“ DISCO" ||1*
Comptete the admissions interview du ng the event RSVP at 228-4228

and receive a free ticket to see Regent's production at

lutnmlnndacoaauIx)nn1>|44.|.naa.IxzazaAA44-IA n..uu;a;uuu.muzxm. 00444-x )xxxuzxA*t.o.n4c4-1-11:124.: 4 It44-1-1xxxA.AA.d.n.o~A-a»1»xxxx.4A.a.4Jboo»:n-1xx~zu4.a,a.A.4.Aa : n»)x:41.l.I.r0oc¢ . nu“ A>.oAh.¢.:.xxxxx-A-LLo.t.o.orlzxxxll-Ann

* Discount for first year anly arm avmilabls only to appiicsétnts who app-iy at thls mm.

ﬂuent |Jf!'I'BlIN)"I adieu; pscumrgthe namksbnarsmnemnulatn mm nduhn mnemaxxmtua nmapglled no ptsulatamru maul hwy humaol‘rau.,/Hut. Mi$n,.;ﬂnur,
aiullxymnubmlunhutauln mamauuoumgikmaaiudtymecawiuaboivmtai@ao¢mnEauhunAImdﬂnndDa!aﬁamu&:hods|)1H£§nLuamuM.Do&.BI
$1133-ID9v1E Idtwau wmbu 4ama'rs45o::nu lit‘ the Honcho’; mutant‘! and them‘: dawns

        

  

’%§a:%;f§;%°’§ ’

7 East Beverley Street - Staunton, VA_ # 540-886-8666 6- Hours: Mo‘n-Sat: 10am-9pm; Sun: 12am-6pm

    

PAGE 4

Alcohol policy
needs reform

Surprise, surprise. Despite their well-intentioned ef-
forts, the administration and the Alcohol Task F orce’s
much-exalted new alcohol policy has failed to produce
any real results. In fact, as, our esteemed competition,
The Trident, reported last Wednesday, DUI arrests have
not declined at all. More disturbingly, the first year of
the new policy saw a near doubling in the number of DUI
arrests— up to 23.

Dean Howison attributes this gross failure to the long
memories of older students. One assumes that once an
entire generation of students has become accustomed to
the new policy, DUI ar-
rests will fall. He could
be right; it is no doubt
those memories of the
“old days” that cause
students to drive drunk. What is more nostalgic than a
spirited drive through the country with a beer in hand and
a dozen or so empties behind you? '

Alas, the awful “alcohol culture” of W&L might be
self-perpetuating and new students will only become ac-
customed to returning from the country after playing a
few games of Beirut, rather than come to appreciate the
gravity of the three—strike system.

A more healthy policy might be for the administration
to abandon its hopes for the new policy, stop relying on
excuses about “lingering memories” and return to a sys-
tem that does not encourage parties to be held out in the
country.

The consequences of the two systems should, by
now, be blatantly obvious. Under the old system, stu-
dents could play drinking games in the fraternity houses.
Some houses even held Beirut toumaments— the horror!
When the night was ﬁnished, students stumbled back to
their dorms and off-campus houses. Under the new sys-
tem, students travel to the country to play drinking games,
drink just as much and then have to return home. Traveller
is an excellent system, but is clearly inadequate to handle
the number of students and number of locations at which
parties are held.

Similarly, as the Phi reported in September, the new
policy has been ineffective at decreasing the number of
alcohol-related student visits to the infirmary. In total, the
new alcohol policy can boast drastically increasing the
number of DUI arrests and having little or no effect on the
students drinking to excess.

So, what can be done? A prudent compromise, which
would bring together the best and least harmful aspects
of the two systems, would be to retain the three-strike
system and to once again permit drinking games in the
fraternity houses. The three strike system should be re-
tained because it is a clear and proportional punishment
scheme that deals quickly and decisively with students
who abuse alcohol.

1 However, the increase in DUI arrests shows that pun-
ishments are notenough. If drinking games were again
permitted in the fraternity houses, there would no longer

     
 

 _. RIGHT or THE AISLE
 BRErrT.KiRw. ‘O4

UPINIONS r"rrc‘e

PHOTO (1 it i<'rr.<\' I/I'll/ll/./7/l_Q‘ht’1'77l/.0I(Y>7

BEIRUT. Beer pong should return to the fraternity houses.

be a reason for students to travel to the country to party.
Naturally, there would be fewer students placing them-
selves and others in danger by driving home drunk.

It’s time to recognize that the new alcohol policy sirn—
ply is not working, however well-intentioned it may have
been. The administration and the student body need to be
honest about what has and has not worked under the new
policy and need to be willing to experiment with new solu-

lC101'1S.

CORRECTIONS from Issue l,April 28, 2003

major cities without clear governance.”

The Staff Editorial, “Play WLUR in the Co-op,” may have given some the impression that the radio station,
the Phi and The Trident are part of the Journalism Department. In fact, they are not.

The “Quote of the Week” read “We have major cities with clear governance.” It should have read “We have

Tax cuts in line with Founding

In 1966, the Farmer’s Almanac
quipped, “If Patrick Henry thought
that taxation without representation
was bad, he should see how bad it is
with representation.”

In today’s tax-and-spend society,
it seems as though Farrner’s got it
right. When the Patriots dumped a
caseload of tea into the Boston Har-
bor in 177 3, they were protesting taxa-
tion without representation, to be
sure. But their actions had a deeper
signiﬁcance. The patriots made a bold
and radical statement about the own-
ership of government revenues: tax
money belonged to first and foremost
to the subjects of the government
(makes sense, they’re the ones that
earned it, right?).

Certainly, a certain amount of taxa-
tion was necessary to provide for
common needs, such as infrastructure
and defense. However, since it was
evidently their money, the citizens of
the New World wanted a say in how it
was to be spent. Though the circuin—
stances have changed, this principle
remains steadfast.

It’s too bad the politicians in
Washington have forgotten that.

Apparently, somewhere between

1773 and 2003 the politicians have for-
gotten that the tax money belongs to
the people, not to the government.
Mitch Daniels, the Di-
rector of the Office of
Management and
Budget, said it best
when he described the
pervading sentiment in the Capitol as
“Don’t just stand there, spend some-
thing.”

The current debate over whether
or not to cut taxes highlights this sen-

 
 

ml.0HN.,fiE.iIti..fQ4l._._

LETTERS i«'i<oM PAGE. 3

SENATORS N0. Senators Snowe, R-Maine  and Voiriovich. li’.-Ohio (if; oppose
President Bush’s tax plan. Perhaps they are also at odds with the I9'uitii<,it-is

timent. The politicians are arguing as
to whether or not they can afford to
trust the American people with $550
billion in tax relief, or whether they
can only spare $350 billion to give to
the ordinary citizens. With the ﬁdu-

. ciary irresponsibility in Washington,

it should be the ordinary citizens who
worry whether or not they can trust
the politicians with any of their
money!

The liberals in Washington see
nothing wrong with taxing income
twice, or discouraging investment by
penalizing those who succeed in the
stock market. They are afraid of “dam—
aging” programs like
Social Security, wel-
fare, and farm subsi-
dies~— as though
these programs were
eased into existence by our very
Founding Fathers, and to gradually
move away from such federal hand-
outs would be the death knell of the
union.

#

i.\‘l)/‘.‘i‘,_1i J, ..;+J..2.> l

 

The liberals‘ collective il‘it3':"i'!0i‘}’ ’
must be incredibly short. Our .;«:»ui.i- ‘
try survived, prospered, and won sev - V
eral wars without the Cl‘E1Lll6—l0-Ag§‘2lYi;‘ ‘
care prescribed by the big Sp<:‘.li,d¢l‘f'§ i

in our government. What’s worse. th l5; "

collective memory must also be incred-

ibly selective. The vast mujoiity ot!
these programs were intended to be 
temporary relief during the (treat De» ‘
pression. Those who cry tlzat our 9'

govemment’s greatest duty is to pro-- f

tect the big—spending social wr:l:‘lrii-: ’‘
programs are either ignorant of l1i:.«-
tory, or choose to ignore it.

Our forefathers threw tea into the
Boston Harbor 230 years ago so iliiit I
we could elect persons to be respoir "
sible stewards of our money, who
could separate the gOV’€l‘1l‘ui1€i‘it’S'
needs from the governinent’s wants. ’
finance the essentials of our great
nation, and send the rest ‘back, '

As former Montana Governor
Marc Racicot said, “the tax-payers‘
never told us to keep the cliange.”

t
I

Kirwan responds.‘

Pro-abortion activists deny the hium/nitr o/‘c-liii-

inseparable from the mother. Breakthroughs in medical
technology have made separation possible.

I will conclude with the following thought. Morality
was never designed to deal with the case of embryos or
fetuses. It does pretty well with independent adults, less
well with children, and very poorly with dependent em-
bryos and fetuses. Hence, it is a bad start to believe that

dren in utero and do, in fact, believe “I/it/I it/iriimi
beings are not human beings. " Claiming that a jetizs
is not human is no different,/‘roni claiming that _\‘1)ll or‘
I am not human. From conception and in ‘y\7/1£.’{./;‘1’t:'}"'
form, blastocysts, embryoes and fetuses are lzzi/izaii and -
anytime one is killed, it s murder. Geogrpalii’ is indeed
a silly argument— a child is a child, in or out oft/’ze

Ring—tum Phi,
stickeri burn,

1'»

 
 

201 N.

included.

we are the men
from Lexington!

Does spring

to relax your

.  ir~..im3’r-ziising rag; . 
Futiaderiising dates rm: ﬁling; q_id—r.lv;ly

6c...a.....mpus

ﬁimr Ylrrm‘ :51)! Sc;iit.r¢:'"e_,"r.Ir {.’r.If!r;s_fsc.’ .i"'rt;n'x‘IraJi.*t-i 

838-923-32.33 o www.campu5iunr£:'ai.ser.com=

Separate Kitchen area, hardwood floors,
off—street parking, trash, water and heat

Please contact 464-9001 for information

have you stressed out?

Try a massage from Kelly Harris,
certified massage therapist,

254-

000000.0000000000000000000000000COOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 51.090-smoo fneyiourstudeixt Group

  

 

ﬂex this <.:.iiirw.Mhes.~.’~ ‘Ne :r=;:il¥li;~:. .|uslt am’-:ev.;«:¥
-Ext with the pweagxaera that ¥J£§f§;‘_5§

  

fM‘¥3 613

00000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOIOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

One Bedroom apartment available in
Beautifully restored Victorian Home

Randolph St. Bright and spacious,

No pets. $350. Available mid June.

and appointment to view.

term’s future

body and mind.

0063

   
 

there are obvious moral answers in these cases.

Sincerely,
James E. Mahoii, I -
Assistant Professor of Philosophy ’

wom b.

1 I - \

'Abortion proponents i/villful_ly=’and ('rinzinally igimre ’

 . ,, this fact to permit their assault on the sanctity Q,/i/rzmian

life.

 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

  

 

  

    
 

#

CATIIERINECGUY
AK,,&L,,EEDm,R TEE RING-TLMP I
 RTS & IFE
MONDAY, MAY 5, 2003 PAGE 5;

~W&L’s greatest asset proves to be its umni, as seen this weekend 7

I spent most of this past recent spring break in the
South, on the University Jazz Ensemble tour of alumni
yggatherings. Cruising with the likes of Kerry Kellogg,
Justine Sessions, and the premier party animal, David
Klinger, we saw Charlotte, Atlanta, Birmingharri, Nashville,
Atlanta (again), and Chattanooga before we came
northbound back to-Lex Vegas. And in each one of these

‘ cities, we met a lot of alums.

As W&L students, we tend to think of
ourselves in a different world of academia,
not quite like all the other typical college

(kids at all those other typical schools
throughout the country. And there’s
certainly a lot of truth to that. Because of our unique history
and our distinct features (you know, the usual suspects:
the Greek system, our Honor System, our exam week

4‘ freedoms, our beloved Spring Term), you’ve have to be
blind to consider W&L just like every other school. Our
four years as undergraduate students are different from
most, making the W&L experience much more valuable.

I Not many go through the same experience as we, but
the alums have. Sure, they may not have shared all the
same features of Lexington as we have, since there are
living alums since before coeducation, since before spring
term, since before we stopped Division-1 athletics.

“ Nonetheless, we share a bond with alurrrni that we don’t
have with any other group of people — a bond formed by
memories of Fancy Dress, Mock Con, Lee Chapel, and all-
around general frattiness.

A After our gig at the Piedmont Driving Club (where
wearing a tux might be considered underdressing) in
Atlanta, Kerry Kellogg and I had a home-stay with David

   

Phillips, a Kappa Sig alum from the class of 1992. As if

letting us sleep in his beautiful Buckhead home was not
4 enough, David offered us a few drinks and stayed up a
few hours past his bedtime (he had to get up at 7 a.m. the
following morning) to entertain us. We sat down, the
three of us, and watched some shows on MTV, downed a
”‘ few beers, and complained about some W&L professors

ABSOLUTE FRATLORO
TIM SMITH ‘O4

— we could have just as easily been in a fraternity house
basement and not lcnown the difference.

Earlier in the evening, David and his wife took the
two of us out to eat at an Italian restaurant, buying us
dinner in another kind gesture toward two college kids
they hadn’t even met before. Joining us for dinner were
two SAE alums, also from the class of 1992, and their
wives. As we talked about W&L, and as I tried my best to
explain the current Spring Term debate, it
became distinctly clear to me that the
wives, who had not graduated from W&L,
could not really grasp the meaning of the
conversation. W&L was perhaps a little
foreign to them. They didn’t feel the connection.

At all the alumni gatherings for which we played, Rob
Mish, our university alumni director, made a quick speech
on the happenings in Lexington. In regards to the spring
term issue, he explained each time that President Burish
was getting an “education” on the unity and resolute
character ofW&L students and alumni. And Rob is exactly
right. It took the raising of the Spring Term question for
Tom Burish to ﬁnally ﬁgure out what W&L is all about. It’s
not his fault of course — he’s not an alurrmus. He never got
the privilege of enjoying the experience we students are
going through right now, and that’s his loss. Inevitably, he
will learn some things through osmosis, but perhaps in a
little bit more of a crash course than he expected.

By the time this article is published, Alumni Weekend
will have come and gone. To some students, it’s just
another weekend of cocktails and band parties, just like
many others. But to fall into this mindset is to cheapen
the most important asset that W&L has. More than the
students, more than the faculty, more than Tom Burish,
the W&L alumni make this university into the place we
love. They know all of the quirks, all of the fun there is to
be had, and, above all, they know what W&L truly means
to us. In the face of a generally ignorant population, the
alums are the only ones who understand and appreciate
our experiences and our lives as students at this place.

     

 BRO0l{S/ T/ieRz2z,g

  

HAIL To THE CHIEF: President and Mrs. Burish enjoy alumni weekend festivities along side of the University Commons.

It may at ﬁrst seem like a trivial thing, but the connection
is undeniable, like the bond between two lifelong friends. I
only spent 12 hours in the world of David Phillips, but with
the way we acted, we could have passed for neighbors or
relatives. We feel the connection in the classes we have
with alumni professors — when Professors Porter or Futch
mention the upcoming ﬁm of an approaching party weekend,
we smile, appreciating that they understand what it’s like to

be a student here. It’s a corriforting thing. It makes us
happy to be students at W&L. ‘

There’s one old cliché phrase that I’m sure most of us
know: It ’s not what you know, it’s who you know. Well,
there are thousands of W&L alumni throughout the

country. I’ll never get the chance to know them all. But 1
they lcnow me, and that makes the W&L experience that

much more special.

J11!/I P/J1 ,

Hull’s Drive-In reopens for spring  

“DuPont art gallery astounds

\
\

 

A

It was a photograph taken by a
camera, no doubt. And yet, it wasn’t
a mere photograph — it couldn’t be,
because the image portrayed was not
a realistic possibility. . .

At the
moment, there is a
superbly diverse
presentation of
students’ artworks

~‘~ in DuPont Hall. As

I entered the Museum of DuPont, I
noticed pop art, portraits and pastels,
photographs, paintings, and a

ON THE ARTS at

beautiful, what he considers art. And
we have such an amazing opportunity
at this school — we know the people
who created these works of art. They
are our peers — one of the artists could

be the guy next to you
this moment,
reading the Sports

I Um LEIGH B1RDwELL‘03 section of the Phi. Art

is an expression of our
inner selves and to find a work of art
to be striking makes a certain kind of
unexplainable connection with the
artist.

4

background. The use of color and the
contrast between the dark fence and
the sunset-colored background were
what ‘struck’ me most. The
background was so diverse that this
work was also pure imagination and
unrealistic as a photograph
representation of real life.

Maybe this is the role of digital
art — _ to change the role of
photography as realistic
representation to. . .well, something
else. Yet, this sounds oddly and
ironically familiar, eh? Such as,

A sculpture of a monster with colorful, Personally, I painting and the
ﬂoating teddy bears inside his tummy. was extremely change of its role from
All the works were unique and intrigued by the ART 15 AN EXPRESSION OF painting real life to
expressed each artist’s individual individual works of OUR INNER SELVES AND TO painting the
style. digital artwork, FIND A WORK OF ART To unrealistic, the

K. I am a strong believer that certain which Idescribed in BE STRIKING MAKES A subconscious, the
works of art ‘strike’ certain people in the beginning of the emotions as modern

. . . . . . CERTAIN KIND OF UNEX— '
certain ways — not all art is appealing article. Two in and post-modern
to every viewer. If that were the case, particular I found to PLAINABLE OONNECHON did. . . is history

‘ We would not be individual selves. be quite fascinating. WTIH THE ARTIST. repeating itself?

That is the reason for the diversity of One presented the Art is the outlet for

71

arts and artworks. For this reason, I
do not discuss all the works in DuPont
(though all are truly magniﬁcent). But
I encourage you to enter the museum
and discover for yourselves which of
the artworks ‘strike’ you - then find
out the artist and tell him/her that their
artwork is intriguing and have a
conversation.

I say the latter statement because
art. gives a glimpse into the mind of
the artist — the depths of his/her
psyche, how he handles certain

ﬁgure of a man peering into a window,
yet completely surrounded by white,
ﬂuffy clouds. These clouds seemed
to envelop him as though they were
carrying this image of him into some
sort of dream world. Two realistic
photographs — one of a man, one of
clouds — put together to form a bizarre
yet imaginative representation. It is a
simple representation yet the idea is
so creative.

Another digital photographic
work of art portrayed the close-up of
a black fence in front of a colorful

imagination, where
creativity runs wild, limitless and free.
And it seems to be the case that
representation itself is limited so far
as one’s imagination goes. But then
again, is there a limit to the
representation of our imagination? Art
itself is a representation, but is there
room for more discoveries? Or must
we wait for the advancement of
technology as the source for these
discoveries .(as was the case with
digital photography)? Just a few
thoughts...

Review: ‘Sylvia’ cast barks up laughs

While the plot may seem far-fetched to most,

BY MEGAN MORGAN
.iSSlST.\f\7T ARTS ANI) LIFE EDITOR

Spring has arrived here in Lexington. And with the
coming of a new season comes the return of a beloved
local institution. This means that Lexington’s own Hull’s
Drive-In will once again reopen to the public, offering
viewers a wide and appealing variety of new movies.

Hull’s usually shows a double feature of two back-
to-back movies, which may or may not be related in
subject. The showings are always at night, and begin
when it becomes dark enough outside to see the screen.
Viewers can listen to the movie over the radio or through
individual speakers that can be hooked into the car. The
drive-in offers a concession stand that sells snacks and
drinks to Hull’s patrons.

The 2003 spring season started offover the weekend
of April 25 with a showing of the Broadway musical-
turned Academy Award winning ﬁlm “Chicago” followed
by Gwyneth Paltrow’s comedy “View from the Top”. On
May 2 through May 4 the theatre showed “Lord of the
Rings: The Two Towers” followed by “Maid in
Manhattan”.

On Wednesday, April 30, W&L’s Student Organizing
Alternative Recreation (SOAR) club sponsored a free night at
the drive-in for W&L students where they showed James
Bond’s “Die Another Day”. SOAR is a club that promotes
social optionsthat serve as an alternative to the traditional

    

W&L social scene.

The drive-in, which is over 50 years old, is extremely .
unique in its management. It is run by Hull’s Angels, a ‘
non—profit organization that bought and rescued the :

theatre in 2001 when it went out of business. This makes

Hull’s the only non-proﬁt drive-in movie theater in the A

nation.

Coming up in the near future, moviegoers will‘
have the opportunity to experience something of‘
historical signiﬁcance. Hull’s Drive-In will be hosting I

what they are calling a Civil War Weekend, which is

scheduled to occur over the weekend of May 16'

through May 18. The theatre will play the double
feature of the recently released “Gods and Generals”
followed by “Somersby”. Both of these historical
epic movies were filmed, in part, here in Lexington.
This weekend is being advertised as “a massive movie
experience”. It will last until 2:30 am. and have two
separate intermissions. To make things even more
interesting, free admission will be given to all civil
war re-enactors who come to the drive-in dressed in

full period regalia to the Saturday evening showing]

Hull’s Drive-In is located 4 miles outside of

Lexington on Route 11 North. Double features start at

8:15 pm, and admission is $4 for adults and free for

children 12 and under. Don’t miss the opportunity for a I

unique and enjoyable movie watching experience at
Hull’s.

» jEBBRO0K.\‘/ THERlNCrIl.'r\l PHI l
A NIGHT AT THE MOVIES: Hull’s Drive-In provides students and the Lexington community with a unique cinematic experience _

“i - . .
situations, what . he considers
'1.
BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

.( ' I must say I was a bit skeptical when I heard the

theatre department’s next production would star a talk-
ing dog. Maybe my skepticism was due to the fact that
I don’t really like dogs. Whatever the case, I was wrong.
The cast of this weekend’s “Sylvia” managed to not

*5 only completely reroute my skepticism, but also to make

the audience think about a number of things including
relationships among humans and animals and gender
roles.

The play, senior Neal Willetts’s thesis project, de-
buted over the weekend in the Lenfest Center and will
continue for one more run tonight in Johnson Theatre
at 8 p.m. The small cast revolves around a love-tri-
angle relationship between Greg (Joe Harouni, ’05), a

4. middle-aged commodities trader searching for mean-

ing and “realness” in life, his wife Kate (Kris Pollina,
’O3), a New York City junior high school English
teacher who believes she can teach Harlem students

‘ to appreciate Shakespeare and Sylvia (Ligia Abreu,

’06), Greg’s French poodle. The catch of the play re-
volves around the fact that Sylvia can talk, not just
bark, she can converse with the other characters, and
Greg treats her like she is a human. Willetts summed

I4 up the plot as, “an exploration of marriage and the

importance of communication in maintaining a long-
lasting relationship.”

and it was, the hilarious quirks and interplay be-
tween the actors make the two hours worthwhile.
Whether it be Abreu’s dog-like mannerisms or
Pollina’s soliloquized bits of Shakespeare, the play
keeps the audience captivated if not chuckling.

I commend Willetts on choosing his actors. While
the entire cast worked together phenomenally, the
play was generally held together by the stellar per-
formances of Pollina and Abreu. These two women
made their characters come alive on the stage. At
times, I could literally see an “innocent” dog pranc-
ing around the room under the watchful eye of a jeal-
ous wife. .

Another notable performance was that of senior
Sarah Sager, as a rich, socialite friend of the family. I
could feel her cringe as Sylvia leapt up on her, wag-
ging her tail during a scene in the couple’s apart-
merit.

I can’t say the play made a dog-lover out of me,
but it did allow me to think about and appreciate the
relationships among humans, their pets and one an-
other.

The bottom line: go see the play tonight. While the
two hours may seem to drag at times, the amazing skills of
the two leading actresses make the performance worth-
while and entertaining in the end.

Megan Morgan contributed to this review.

BALL, l'<'R()r\l PAGE 1

about 30, 00 people in the United States.
The disease affects the ﬁmctioning of
organs, particularly the pancreas and

lungs. If it remains untreated, many vic-
tims do not live beyond childhood.
Tickets for the Charity Ball for Cys-
tic Fibrosis are $25 per couple and $15
per individual and will be sold during the

week of May 5 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in
front of the Co-op. Tickets will also be
sold at the door. All ticket sales money
goes directly to the Cystic Fibrosis Foun-
dation. Dress is black tie optional.

NABORS, FROM PAGE 1

washes will be held, one of which will beneﬁt the Rockbridge
Area Transportation System. Other events for this year in-
clude building and cleaning playgrounds at Yellow Brick Road
and Lexington Day School, painting a building for the
RockbridgeArea Recreational Center in Buena Vista, and help-
ing to do inventory at the Free Clinic. Phi Eta Sigma, the
ﬁeshman honorary, will be speciﬁcally focusing on Habitat for
Humanity and Alpha Phi Omega, the co—educational service
ﬁaternity, will be painting a mural at the youth center.
Everyone involved would love to see interest in this ac-
tivity grow. It is a great time to get with your friends and
support local interests that need assistance. While in the
past, faculty and administration have not played a major role
in Nabors Service Day, 2003 could be the year of starting a

tradition of everyone in the Washington and Lee community

coming together for the good of Rockbridge County and for
the legacy of Jonathan 0. Nabors. The Nabors Service League
Web site sums up why students and faculty should get in-

volved, “It is his spirit of optimism, love, and friendship that‘

the Nabors Service League aspires to embody.” For all stu-
dents, faculty, and administration that would like to get in-
volved, a sign up sheet for the events will be outside the co-op}
everyday this week from 1 1-2. Additionally, forms are available
oriline athQ_1;://home.wlu.edu/~THOMPSONP/N SDform.htm.
Stacy McLaughlin ’02 and Claiborne Taylor ’02 es-
tablished this event in memory of Jonathon O. Nabors.
They decided to honor his memory with a day of service
because Nabors did much for others and was very in-I
volved in community service. Nabors would have gradu-
ated in 2002. On his way back to Washington and Lee“
after Christmas break, Nabors was killed on January 3,’
1999 in an automobile accident, along with his sister, Leigh,
during his freshman year. Nabors Service Day was cre-;
ated in the Spring of 1999 and was a mandatory activity for
freshmen only. The creation ofNabors Service Day lead
to the beginning of the Nabors Service League, also started‘
by McLaughlin, in which students can participate in ser-
vice programs year round. 5

 

 

 RLNG-"TUM PHI

    
 
    

PAGE 6

PORTS

  

.4
, ERINJUIIUS
SPORTS Eurioiif

 

E\/LlII.‘]UIlLSE@Wlll.EDll »

Baseball wins two this week

I

With 28-8 record, team could could go to Division III NCAA tournament

jars BROOKS/T/7fRIiﬂg~l1l7IIP/Ii

TRIPLE PLAY. Zack Bausch looks on as his teammate Dan Kagey bats in Saturday’s game.

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

The W&L baseball team fol-
lowed up last Sunday’s disappoint-
ing loss in the ODAC championship
game with two solid victories this past
week and with an impressive record
of 28-8 and are now poised for a po-
tential berth in the Division III NCAA
tournament.

The Generals faced Villa Julie at
home on Wednesday. W&L fell down
3-0 after the first inning but the Gen-
erals came back to score a run in the
bottom of the ﬁrst and two more in
the second to tie the score at 3. Junior
right-hander Mike Wert shook off a
rough ﬁrst inning and pitched solidly
the rest of the way.’ The game re-
mained tied at 3 until the bottom of
the ninth. Senior ﬁrst baseman Brian
Gladysz led off the inning with a walk.
Junior designated hitter Bryan
Mulhem then singled but the ball was
misplayed by the Villa Julie leftﬁelder
that allowed Gladysz to score all the

way from first to give the Generals a ‘

dramatic 4-3 victory. Wert received the
victory going the full nine innings to
improve his record to 7-1 on the year.
Olfensively, the Generals were led by
Mulhem, junior second baseman Aus-
tin Allain and senior shortstop
Michael Hanson who each contrib-
uted two hits and an RBI.

Savannah Art and Design then
came to Lexington this past weekend
for a two game series that would close
out the Generals’ regular season.
W&L scored three rims in the sec-
ond inning to take a 3-0 lead and never
looked back in their 7-2 victory.

The Generals were aided by the
Bee’s poor defense as ﬁve of the Gen-
erals seven rims were unearned. Se-
nior centerﬁelder Bobby Littlehale
went 3 for 4 for the Generals with two
rims scored. Sophomore designated
hitter Zach Bausch went 2 for 3 with
two rims scored and two RBIs includ-
ing a solo home rim in the ninth in-
ning. Junior leﬁ hander Peter Dean got
his team leading eighth victory

against just two losses, allowing two
rims over eight innings.

The two teams faced each other
again on Saturday. W&L opened up
the scoring in the first inning with a
three-run homer by Gladysz. The
Bees replaced their starting pitcher
after the first inning and were able to
shut down the Generals the rest of
the way. SCADi'came back to score a
run in the fourth and two more in the
seventh off of junior right-harider Dan
Kagey to tie the score at 3. Hanson
replaced Kagey in the eighth after a
rain delay but gave up a rim scoring
single in the top of the ninth that
would prove to be the game winning
hit and allow the Bees to prevail 4-3.

Having already won a school
record 28 games and playing out-
standingly throughout the‘ season,
the team has a chance of gaining an
at-large bid to the NCAA tournament.
The Generals will find out their fate
when the tournament selections are
released on May 11 and can only
hope that their season will continue.

The Lake Show: respect it

The Los Angeles Lakers have
won three consecutive NBA champi-
onships. Yet, many NBA enthusiasts
tire of this domination and want an-
other team to have its turn at the top.
Such fans refuse to respect an LA
squad that relies, in their opinion, ex-
clusively on Kobe Bryant and
Shaquille O’Neal.

While I am by no means a Laker
fan, let me explain why I

crushing Portland’s remaining hopes
for a championship.

During Game 4 of last year’s
Western Conference Finals, the Lak-
ers already down 2-1 in the series
trailed the Sacramento Kings 48-24 in
the second period. Yet, the Lakers
clawed their way backcinto the con-
test.

When Shaq went to the bench

with three early

would enjoy watching " """"""""""""""""""""""" “ fouls, Bryant

the Lake Show capture THE FREE AGENT stepped up, scor-

its fourth straight title. IAN MCILRQY ‘()4 ing nine uninter-
Dynasties are rupted points.

nothing new but rather the NBA
norm. Barring the strike-shortened
season of 1998-99 in which the San
Antonio Spurs took home the title,
every NBA champion, since the Bos-
ton Celtics failed to repeat in 1987,
has won at least back-to-back chain-
pionships.

However, not only has LA, like
the Chicago Bulls of the mid 90s, man-
aged to three—peat, but they have
done so in style, vanquishing their
perennial Western rivals over and
over.

In Game 7 of the 2000 Western
Conference Finals, a Blazer squad with
unquestioned superstars in Scottie
Pippen, Bonzi Wells, Rasheed
Wallace, and Damon Stoudamire (not
to mention Ruben “the Kobe stopper”
Patterson) dominated LA through
three periods taking a 75-60 lead into
the fourth quarter.

Yet, the Lakers answered with a
15-Orimto tie the game at 75, as O’Neal
dominated the post and Brian Shaw -
that’s right Brian Shaw - nailed three
shots from beyond the arc.

With less then a minute to go,
Shaq slammed an alley-oop from
Bryant to put LA up by 6, thereby

With only seconds leﬁ in regulation
and down two, Kobe drove the lane
but missed a tough shot.

Aﬁer Shaq missed the put-back,
Sacrarnento’s Vlade Divac mistakenly
tipped the ball towards the 3-point line
where “Big Shot Rob” Horry waited.

Used to such pressure with
four championships already under his
belt, Horry hit a straight-on three
pointer as time expired and gave the
Lakers a 100-99 victory, saving the se-
ries and the season.

These two examples illustrate
how the Lakers have earned respect.
In both, the Lakers’ two proven su-
perstar ﬂoor generals, Shaq and Kobe,
have shown how they can take the
entire game in their hands.

Conversely, La.ker role players, al-
though they would have trouble even
making _the roster of the Kings or Dal-
las Mavericks, consistently deliver in
the clutch.

Aside from their players, I firmly ‘

contest that the accomplishments of
LA coach Phil Jackson inspire noth-
ing but awe. Jackson has won six
straight NBA championships in sea-
sons in the last six he has coached —
and 9 in he last 11.

Naturally, many criticssay, ‘.‘any-
one could win that many NBA chain-
pionships if Jordan and Pippen or
Shaq and Kobe are on the roster.”
Yet, such a statement would be pure
ignorance.

Jackson has always successﬁilly
put out ﬁres that threatened to con-
sume his squads. Jordan publicly criti-
cized the play of Bulls center Bill
Cartwright, yet Jackson kept the feud
from surfacing on the ﬂoor.

During Chicago’s second run,
Jackson kept Dennis Rodman on a
leash, one loose enough to allow
Rodman to express himself freely with
his hair color and piercings but tight
enough to keep Rodman’s game as a
rebounding specialist from implod-
ing.

Currently, Jackson keeps his two
Laker superstars from ripping each
other apart. Because of efforts of
Jackson, even Shaq now admits that,
personal conﬂicts with Kobe aside,
the big man’s job is simply “to help
win championships.”

Aﬁer trailing Minnesota 2-1 in
the opening round of this year’s play-
offs, everyone thought LA was fall-
ing apart. Many sports reporters
started proclaiming that LA’s miracle
comeback run to the playoffs in the
second half of the season had ex-
hausted them.

Yet, the Lakers stormed back to
win the series and, like_ always, si-
lenced their critics. As Minnesota
Coach Flip Saunders said after losing
the series 4-2, “the Lakers are the team
to beat and I don’t think that’s going
to change.”

While the Lakers don’t want his
or for that matter anyone else’s love,
they certainly deserve everyone’s re-
spect.

Like sports?
Like to write?

Contact Erin at x4060 to get into the game!

 

MONDAY, MAY 5, 2003

HEADSUP

    

~ )4.
X
.5.
JEB BROORS / The Ring-tzmr Phi
READY FOR PLAY. W&L’s brand-new soccer ﬁeld, newly completed and located up nea r then freshmen parking lot.

BY DONNY BANKS
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team lost on Saturday 7-6 to
Limestone College in overtime at a wet
Wilson Field. It was the Generals’ sec-
ond overtime defeat in as many games,
having lost to Lynchburg last week in
the ODAC championship game.

W&L (9-5) got off to a quick lead
in the beginning ofthe game with two
unanswered goals. Throughout the
ﬁrst and second quarters, however,
the Saints (12-2) kept it close and man-
aged to score a couple points of their
own. The teams were tied at the half
with 2 goals each.

Following a lighting delay of 20
minutes, Limestone broke the tie and
exploded with three unanswered goals
to hold a 5-2 advantage. .

As the rain picked up, however,
the Generals started to mount a come-
back as sophomore attackrnan Gavin
Molinelli scored off an assist by jun-
ior Midﬁelder Dustin Martin. Senior
midﬁelder Rob Brown then put the

r)‘

it *3

 

tnnis seeps

vb

W&L back by only 1 going into the
ﬁnal quarter of regular play aﬁer scor-
ing unassisted.

In the fourth, the Generals
quickly tied it up at 5 with a goal by
junior attackman Matt Fink.

Each team’s offense remained
fairly stagnant for a stretch before
Limestone scored after a shot by
freshman attaclcman David Wooster
bounced from the post onto a W & L
defenseman’s helmet’s into the goal.

This strange deﬂection put them
up 6-5 with only 3:12 minutes remain-
ing. With 40 seconds leﬁ, however,
the Generals converted with a clutch
score by junior midfielder Mark
McLewee to force extra play.

Another 20 minute rain delay en-
sued before the overtime period. De-
spite controlling the ball for the early
part of the 5 minute OT, W&L couldn’t
get off a shot, and Limestone got the
victory with 1:33 rriinutes remaining
after scoring off of a turnover.

Overall, Matt Fink led the Gener-
als with 2 goals, and Brown, Martin,
Molinelli, and McLewee all had one.

 
 

LAX loses to Limestone‘

Team can now only hope to get an at-large bid to the Div. lll NCAA Tournament

In addition, Molinelli recorded 3 as-
sists and Martin had one. In net, jun-
ior goalie Ansel Sanders played well

with 9 saves. Washington and Lee ),

held an advantage in both groundballs
(3 9-33) and faceoifs (1 1-6). Limestone
got off more shots than the Generals
did, and many questionable calls went

to the Saints. ‘-

The game marked the ﬁrst win for
Limestone over W&L in their history
which dates back to their ﬁrst meet-
ing in 1992. The Generals lead the
series 3-1 .

Head Coach Mike Cerino previ-
ously held the same position at Lime-

stone and helped the team reach its A
prominence in Division II lacrosse,

which it has dominated over the years
and in which it is currently ranked 4th.

Because of the last two losses, >*

including last week’s loss of the
ODAV tournament to Lynchbrg,
Washington and Lee can now only
hope to receive an at-large bid to the

Div. III national tournament. F
Last year, Washington and Lee’s
men’s lacrosse took the ODACs.
i

Sisbu

   

THIRTY-LOVE. A fan looks on as the women’s tennis team battles it out under the bridge on Saturday afternoon.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The second-seeded Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team (21-1)
swept Salisbury (9-7) at home last
Saturday in the first round of the
NCAA Division III tournament. Erika
Proko, Lindsay Hagerrnan, Laura
Bruno, Brandi Wedgeworth, Lisa
Mabry, and Elizabeth Law all won their
matches in consecutive sets, with no
Salisbury player ever winning more

than three games to a set. (Proko d.
Jody Cogar 6-0, 6-3, Hagerrnan (1.
Cassie Meyer 6-1, 6-3, Bruno d.
Samantha Coldren 6-1, 6-0,
Wedgeworth d. Heather Tyng 6-2, 6-
1, Mabry (1. Gen Lowe, 6-1, 6-0, Law
d. Sammie Smiles 6-3, 6-1).

The team continued their domi-
nance into the doubles matches, win-
ning in three sets. Senior Proko re-
corded a school record 98"‘ career
doubles match with the help of

Hagerman. defeating Jody Cogar and
Samantha Coldren from Salisbury ‘
(Hagerrnan/Proko d. Cogar Coldren )‘
8-1, Brimo/Mabry d. Meyer/Tyng 8-
O, Lora Farris/Law d. Lowe/ Smiles 8-
6).

The women’s tennis team, which pi
easily cruised to its ODAC champi-
onship, will go on to face Swarthmore,
whose team also defeated their oppo-

nent (Mary Washington) with a sweep
V r

in straight sets.

Women’s lacrosse, men’s tennis lose  

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Longwood defeats Generals

Women’s lacrosse played Longwood on Saturday.
Longwood raced out to an early lead, 11-2, by halﬁime
before adding four more points to their score in the sec-
ond half. Washington and Lee’s goals came from Kelly
Taffe and Lee Wheeler, who had one each. Its assists

ca.rne from Leslie Bogart.

The Lancers are the top-ranked team in Divi-
sion II and were up 4-0 at the 7:20 mark. Wheeler
made the Generals’ first goal, raising the score to 4-
1. The Lancers then recorded seven straight goals
and eventually forced the Generals into 30 turn-

OVCIS.

Tennis eliminated in first round of ODA Cs i

The W&L Men’s Tennis team (15-3) was eliminated
in the first round of the NCAA Division III Tennis tourna-

ment by Washington College last Saturday 4-2, winning it
two of ﬁve singles matches, and losing both doubles
matches. One singles match and one doubles match did
not finish. The only W&L victors of the day were fresh-
men David Shay and Jordan Eichenberger, who won both ,,

of their singles matches in straight sets.

Two matches were completed, however. (Farouk/
Prado d. Shay/McClure 8-3, Blanchette/Prytula d. Schaefer/
Chris Kimmel, 8-3). The loss ends an otherwise very suc-
cessful season for men’s tennis.

Paul Mclure’s singles match and the doubles match

of Nix and Kim werebo both aborted

 

ll

 

i

_]EB BROOKS / The Rr'n,g—tzrIr1 Pl )'

A

