 

.L

RtWt0tt PHI

liiestndent ooice ofll’/nsiiington rind Lee University since 1897

zaé

Spring Term saved
Board sides with Burish

Six week academic program remains with necessary

BY KATIE J. HOWELL
EDITORIAL DIRECTOR

Spring Term is here to stay. Washington and Lee’s board of trustees
voted unanimously Friday afternoon to keep the six-week term a univer-
sity tradition after university President Thomas Burish and other admin-
istrators recommended the decision earlier that day.

“We are keeping spring term, and I think it’s the right decision,”
said Philip Norwood, rector of the board.

The decision came after months of study and deliberation by faculty,
administrators and board members. Money was the main factor for initially
questioning the future of Spring Term. Norwood believes that the board
has found a way to keep the shortened term a feasible option for W&L.

Students and faculty can expect to see two major changes in the
current way the thirty-three-year-old tradition is administered. Stu-
dents will be expected to take a minimum course load of six credits
during spring terms for three out of their four years at Washington and
Lee. Students could take spring terms during their first three years, and
then graduate in late April or early May of their senior year.

Current students need not worry about these changes just yet, how-
ever. A press release issued by the board announced that the improved 12-
12-6 calendar system will not take effect until the 2007 -2008 academic year.

In order to prepare for these changes, however, the board expects the
university to ﬁnancially prepare for the change during the next few years.

' Norwood said that tuition hikes for both undergraduate and law
students are a likely option for providing the funds to make the l2—l2—6
calendar system a fiscal reality for W&L.

“The tuition hikes won’t be pertinent for the coming calendar
year,” Norwood said. “The utilization of tuition dollars may be just as
important as the hikes. This is all a function of limited resources and
the allocation of those resources.”

The university began studying the academic and ﬁnancial implications
of the current l2-12-6 calendar system after former president John Elrod
announced that the school would move toward a ﬁve-course teaching load
per year for faculty. He wanted to make the institution’s teaching loads
comparable to peer schools in order to attract competitive faculty.

The new 12-12-6 calendar that the board has selected will allow faculty
to teach an average of six courses per year. Professors currently teach seven
courses each year. Norwood said that the proposed system will also reduce
the teaching load to 5.5 courses by the calendar year 2011-2012.

Makingthis decisionhasnotbeenaneasyonefortheboard Studying

Board shows support for
Traveller, allots $181,000

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
sENIOR STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee
Board of Trustees voted to give
the Traveller program $181,275
during their winter meeting last
weekend.

With this new money,
Traveller will become a primary
system of transportation for
W&L students. “We will be
able to put more vehicles on the
road,” said Bailey Edwards, the
Chair of the Traveller Commit-
tee.

Starting in the Fall of 2004,
when this budget begins, Trav-
eller willhave six contracted
vans driving a route and up to
four dispatched drivers. The
committee will start getting
these new vehicles together this
year.

“This is more than three
times the number of vehicles
we provide now,” said
Edwards. “You will not have
to wait as long to get a ride,
most likely, under 5 min-
utes.”

Most of the current com-
plaints toward the Traveller pro-
gram address the lengthy wait
that students must bare before
ﬁnding a safe ride home. The
Traveller Committee is deter-
mined to apply this money to-
ward a decrease in this delay.
The Traveller Committee will
also spend some of its gener-
ous budget on cars for volun-
teer drivers, “so that the weekly
volunteers will no longer have
to drive their own cars,” said
Edwards.

Students will be able to re-
ceive rides from Traveller ev-
ery night of the week.

“This appropriation

shows that the Trustees are
deeply committed to ensure the
safety of all W&L students,”
said Edwards.

But the Alumni Association
also demonstrated strong support
for the improvements to W&L’s
safe ride system. Under leader-
ship of President J immy Brooks,
the Alumni Association has
pledged to donate money to Trav-
eﬂer ‘

The money from the Alumni
Association may be directed to-
ward Traveller sponsored educa-
tion programs. These would in-
clude speakers, a possible con-
trolled drinking and driving ex-
periment, and pledges not to
drink and driver similar to the
Christmas Weekend successful
effort.

While students have orga-
nized the Traveller Committee,
advisor, Dean Dawn Watkins,
has supported their dedication
and worked closely with the
committee. Dean Watkins
serves as the administrative
support for the Board of Trust-
ees Campus Life Committee,
which sponsored the Traveller
proposal for the full Board’s
vote.

“It’s been my pleasure to
work with the Traveller Cornmit—
tee,” said Dean Watkins. “Under
Bailey’s leadership the Traveller
Committee has spent long hours
examining and evaluating the cur-
rent program to implement a plan
that supports our students and
encourages responsible decision
making.”

“This is a good day for W&L
students. We worked hard to
make Traveller better serve the
W&L students, and we are
pleased with the result,” said
Edwards.

 

hages and ossible tuition hike

JEB BROOKS / THE RING-TUM PH1

DECISION. Executive Committee President Helen Hughes, RectorPhilip Norwoodand UniversityPrmident Thomas Burish discusthenew 12-12-6 calmrdar.

the ﬁnancial models prepared and presented by faculty and administrators
has shownthatthe new 12- 1 2-6 model will be achallenging yet attainable goal.
“Everything has a price  Norwood said. “Among those price tags
are not only the hiring of additional faculty but also more ofﬁce space.”
The university hopes to hire 15-25 additional faculty during the next
three years. Norwood expects this change to carry a large price tag.
“This is the type of thing where some donor could say, ‘I want to take
this yoke off your shoulders, and I want to pay for all of it.’ We would need

a $100 million  Norwood said. “We’ve never had a donor that big.”

While the above situation is more hypothetical than reality, the
board expects to raise the money necessary to implement the calen-
dar changes through tuition increases, endowments and a change in
the pricing of university services like room and board.

The law school will maintain its current calendar system with
two fourteen-week semesters.

For CAMPUS REACTIONS, see page 2

  Three fraternity pledgeships
suspended for allegedhazing incidents

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR v

Security is investigating three fraternities for suspicion of hazing.

According to University officials, hazing is not congruent with
University expectations of honor and civility and therefore threaten the
preservation of the Greek system.

“Should an investigation yield nothing the new member education
processes would proceed. Should an investigation yield hazing by an
individual, the case would go before the Student Faculty Hearing Board.
Should it yield hazing by a group it would go before the Inter-Fratemity
Council,” said Dean Watkins.

Fraternity President and New Member Educators were informed of
the expectations for New Member Education at the beginning of the
eight—week period. N o hazing activity was specifically one of these
expectations.

EB ROOs H NG-TUM H

 

....................  2 0
MONDAY, FEBRUARY9, 2004 :1;

The mew member activities have" been suspended to ensure the
safety of new members, which could be jeopardized by the type of
activities that have been reported to the University.

According to University ofﬁcials, the alleged conduct is in direct
contravention of institutional policies.

Freshmen men were encouraged to report any hazing incidents
to the relevant fraternity leadership and to the Inter-Fraternity Coun-

oil.

The Inter-Fraterrrity Council’s policy on hazing is as follows;
“N o initiation or pledge training activity shall constitute any physical
or emotional hazard to the individual. Such potential hazards include
alcohol abuse, dangerous physical exertion or exhaustion, physical
or emotional violence, paddling and other types of abuse.”

The University deﬁnes hazing as, “a harassing, excessive task
associated with initiation or membership in an organization.”

Dried blood, bandage found in Southern Inn meatloaf

BY SARAHAMURRAY
STAFF WRITER

For most visitors, Mock
Convention’s only irritation was the
barrage of potatoes ﬁom the Idaho
parade ﬂoat. But one visitor from

tauranttoinformthemanagerofthe
incident The manager immediately
removed the bandage from the table
and offered the Irm’s apologies as
wellasafreemealanddessert Parian
refused the dessert, “the last thing
thatIwantisadessertthatiscov—

Alabama found cause to complain ered in WI-HT‘E whipped creme and
when he un- . . RED berry
embed a used the last thing that Iyvant IS a Sauce’ both of
bandage in his dessert that is covered In WHITE which woukl be
meatloaf at the Whipped creme and RED berry ﬁne targets for
50UTh6m II1I1- sauce, both of which would be hidden DNA-
Ranfiall ﬁne targets for hidden DNA Pam“ has riot
“Cade”ParIan,a ﬁledacomplarnt
ﬁrst-yearlaw studentatSamfordUni- withtheV1rginiaHealth Department,
versity, came to Lexington lastweek- whose regulations stipulate that res-
endtoseeafarnilyfriend Parian and taurants’ food mustbe“safe and un-
several others decided to have lunch adllltera "-
at the Southern Inn between ‘Mock Though Paxian enjoyed Mock
Convention events. Convention, he was less pleased
Inthemiddle ofearjnghismeal, with the Southern Inn’s slow ser-

Parian felt a strange, “not so
meatloafey” object between his teeth.
Removing it, he discovered that it
was a bandage partly ﬁlled with old
blood.

Parian attracted the clientele’s
attention by “screaming a profan-
ity” and by calling across the res-

vice. In fact, after several com-
plaints to the staff, he joked with
his party that the staff “is going to
spit in your food if you guys don’t
shut up.” Shortly afterwards, the
food—bandage included——was
delivered to the table. The South-
ern lnn had no comment.

 

    

kg-9..

wrisnr WEE

- -it
““""““""ers“'i"?”“vs’w‘srrv

Li::.(t3""!;‘;‘i'T}IN, VA 244$

PAGE 2

pg ‘ti ??’i*‘i‘~5*

Plans in place to
improve safety of 1-81  

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRrrER

Interstate 81 is still irnprov-
ing despite statewide attention
to long-terrn proposals.

Transportation agencies
are using technology to help in-
terstate travel. And lawmakers
are introducing legislation to in-
crease the safety of I-81.

As part of the Smart Travel
Virginia program, Rockbridge
County’s VDOT district is plac-
ing three cameras on I-81 and
one on interstate 64. They will
be up this spring, but 26 more
willfollow.

“We have to make sure ev-
erything is working with the soft-
ware,” said Eric Goiton VDOT’s
Public Relations Assistant for
the Staunton district. “We will
learn lessons when putting them
up.”

“In other parts of the state
where cameras have been used,
they’ve been very helpful,” said
Sergeant Mike Honaker of the
Virginia State Police.

Drivers on I-81 can now see
Road and Weather Information
Systems (RWIS), which look like
space-age little towers with ra-
dio antennas. They detect the
air temperature, pavement tem-
perature, and wind speed. Their
sensors count vehicles travel-
ing in either direction and deter-
mine tractor trailers from passen-
ger cars.

Both the cameras and
RWIS give information for the
six Changeable Message Signs

, that now straddle the interstate

in Lexington’s district. VDOT
and the state police use these
signs to relay messages about
accidents and delays to oncom-
ing traffic.

“If you give motorists ad-
vanced warning, maybe they
can go a different way,” said
Gorton. “And that cuts down the

P

delay, keeping the trafﬁc mov-
ing better.”

“Basically, our View has al-
ways been that highway safety
involves three areas: education,
engineering, and enforcement.
The signs are more of an aspect
of the engineering and education
side,” said Honaker. “It does
seem effective in communicating
with the motoring public.”

Legislation from Delegate
Ben Cline and Delegate Chris
Saxmon also target the currentl-
81 status.

Saxmon is pushing for a pi-
lot program for 1-8 1, which would
last a year and involve a state-
wide director to focus on safety
for the interstate. Another one
of his Bills would prohibit trucks
from using the far left lane to pass
in areas of more than two lanes.

Cline’s recent I-81 House Bill
calls for more police presence on
the interstate. Not only does he
want ten new Virginia state troop-
ers, but he also pushes to fur-
nish out-of-date cars to rest in
the median and act as decoys to
slow trafﬁc.

“Studies have shown that
presence of police directly im-
pacts speed, which directly low-
ers the number of accidents,”
said Cline.

The third aspect of Cline’s
proposal would require third
passing lanes on steep portions
of 1-8 1 , which would allow trucks
to slow down. Honaker said that
if people would obey traffic laws
and the speed limit most of the
interstate safety problems
wouldn’t exist.

“We’ve never been so fo-
cused and committed as three
agencies to make the interstates
as safe as possible,” said
Honaker. “The Interstate is safe
now. These improvements are a
normal adjustment to maintain
the safe condition of the high-

79

way.

BY CATHERINE SWAN
sENIoR STAFF WRHER

 

 

The V-Day movement will make its mark at Washington and
Lee this week with the production of The Vagina Monologues
February 11 and 12 in the Commons Theater. V-Day is an organized
worldwide effort that seeks to stop violence against women.

The purpose of the event is to raise awareness of violence
against women while supporting organizations that provide ser-
vices to women affected by violence and sexual assault.

The Women’s Student Law Organization is organizing the pro-
duction of The Vagina Monologues, but other organizations, in-
cluding KEWL and CAIR, are contributing to the V-Day efforts.

Hidden Hero Ansel

Senior Ansel Sanders is this week’s hidden hero for his excep-
tional work on the 12- 1 2-6 Committee. Last spring Ansel and EC Presi-
dent Helen Hughes formed 12-12-6, a_ group that could openly voice
the opinion of the student body.

12-12-6 actively sought to inﬂuence the faculty when they made
their vote earlier this year when they made their vote concerning the
calendar. This vote inﬂuenced the Board of Trustees’ recent decision.

12-12-6 was made of a diverse selection of students, to give the
most unbiased student voice regarding the calendar decision. Ansel
acted ofﬁcially as the liaison between the faculty and the actual com-
mittee and was responsible for delivering the student proposals and

  

reporting back to the
committee withthefaculty
responses. HIDDEN HEROES '

A ii s e 1 JORDAN ANDE-‘RSON’07 came to W&L
from his ________________________________________________________ __ hometown of
Weems, Vir- ginia because
he was searching for a

quality small liberal arts college and Washington and Lee ﬁt the bill.
Lacrosse was a huge draw as he enters as goalie for his fourth year.

Spring Term was also among his favorite aspects of the school. It
has “academic possibilities you cannot have at other times,” with the
variety of classes and opportunities that professors offer speciﬁcally
during the six week term. He also said that the student body is amaz-
ing, that we are “what makes this place special.”

Ansel is an English Major and said that he could not name a
favorite professor if he tried; “it would be like picking names out of a
hat, because they are all amazing,” he said.

Following graduation, Ansel will be working with Teach for
America, teaching middle school English up in Baltimore. As a senior,
his advice to other students is to enjoy the opportunities and experi-
ences here while you can. Also, take advantage of all the school has to
offer. Thanks to the efforts of Sanders and the 12- 12-6 Committee, the
academic potential will continue to be as diverse and enriching as
possible with the retention of Spring Term.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

speaks for students

 

STEVEN MARrNos / THE RING-7vMPH1
Heroics. As head of the 12-12-6 Committee, Ansel Sanders led student
body input regarding Spring Term.

The Ring—tum Phi solicits nominations for students, faculty and
staff whom you believe to be Hidden Heroes. If you know of some-
one who contributes quietly, please submit your Hidden Hero nomi-
nations to phi@wlu.edu.

Students react positively to calendar change

type of people working for us,”
“I think it’s phenomenal, it’s

a good decision for the school, it

preserves the character of the

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Saturday afternoon stu-

dents receivedanemail announc- school,” said dents and fac— abroads and I can’t commit a
ing the Board’s decision to pre- Tom Borda, I couldn’t ask for a group ulty there was whole semester, so Spring Term
serve a modiﬁed version of the ’06,“I also like ample time for is good for that,” said Afsin
12-12-6 calendar. Campus reac- taking a 6- of Pe0P1€ who cared 30 input from the Yurdakul, ’06, an international
tion seemed overwhelmingly credit Spring much about the students three groups,” student. ‘

positive. Term only and about the school said Brian Not all students were thrilled

“I can’t tell you how im- three out of ' Castleberry, with the preservation of Spring I

pressed I was with the way the four years so HELENHUGHES, ’04. “Student Term

meeting ran,” said EC President when you’re a SPEAKING ABOU1->1-HERO ARD input was led “It’s been said that we would
Helen Hughes after presenting senior gradu- by Ansel Sand- get out earlier and have a longer
student views to the Board. “I ating you have RESIDENT ers and Helen Christmas break if it were a two-
couldn’t askfora group ofpeople more time to Hughes who semester system,” said Megan

who cared so much about the
students and about the school.
We’re very lucky to have this

spend with your job or your in-
temship. It’s a very good way to
solve the problem,” he said.

ay increases domestic abuse awareness on campus

The Vagina Monologues were performed two years ago at W&L
and were well received. Event organizers plan to continue support-
ing V-Day events each year, either by a performance of the mono-
logues or other events that promote awareness of violence against
women.

There are several ways students can support V-Day. The first is
by attending The Vagina Monologues, this Wednesday and Thurs-

day at 7:00 in the Commons Theater. Admission is $12 in advance, ‘

and $15 at the door. Donations will be collected for Project Horizon
at each performance. Student organizations are encouraged to spon-
sor a care package for families leaving the local shelter. The organi-
zations are looking to raise $6000 from ticket sales and individual
contributions.

University Commons.

14 and March 6.

Participate in the 2004 Literacy Campaign
The campaign runs from Jan 19-March 12.

- Book drive, with drop-off points at the W&L Library and the

- “Lunch Bunch” at the Best Seller Bookstore. Children bring a
bagged lunch and for a book reading and craft. Ages 4-7 from 11:00 -
12:00 on Feb 7, 14, 28, and March 6. Ages 8-12 from 12:00 to 1:00 on Feb

Questions? Contact Steve Martinenza martinenzas@wlu.edu

WA TCHFOR
THE NEXT
ISSUE or
THE PHI
MARCH 1!

Need a rest from
everyday life?

Treat yourself to a luxurious
full body massage by

 H 31" I’ 119', BA, CMT

‘Certiﬁed Massage Therapist
Board of Nursing C'ert1'ﬂ'ed
13 Years Experience

Gift Certiﬁcates Make
Great Valentine’s Presents!

(540) 264-0063

 

ATTENTION STUDENTS!!!!!

HOUSE FOR RENT
“In the Country”

Next School Term
Lease begins June 2004

3654 Collierstown Rd.
4 Bedroom, fully furnished

$1200/mo.

Call Nancy Allison at
James Wm Moore Real Estate
28 South Main St. - 463-7080

“The process was handled
in the correct way. Once the Ad-
ministration realized how big an
issue this was to the alumni stu-

Students of all backgrounds
value Spring Term. “Although
I’m already studying abroad, I
want to do some other studying

did a good job of expressing, in a
well-developed manner, the stu-
dent feelings,” he said.

Murphy, ’07, “although I do like
the six weeks to be able to go
abroad,” she said.

Correction

In last week’s article headlined, “Donate to save Music Festival,”
we incorrectly implied that the administration had cancelled Buf-
falo Creek Music Festival because of liability concerns. Actually,
the administration informed festival organizers that using frater-
nity funds for the event violated national rules. Additionally,
university ofﬁcials began encouraging organizers to fundraise
for the events in January. If you would like to contribute to the
Buffalo Creek Fund, please contact Inge Hill at hillrn@wlu.edu.

 

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs ~ Contacts

COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

reerrrew oarucczreore

20 years serving Rockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

 
    

Gr.-am Lstsnrrzttr RRNGEL
i’£iA?E3rx’¥LE7£M\‘l2'ER i>.»tsrz~:r.1-'3

 

549-451-344?

309 N. thin St.

 

Lexirigtori, VA 24450

 

1‘

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

'2 't:i~’.ix3::-"ii.-t.:i?a3 «
« )lTORlAL

Mock Con behavior inexcusable

Provost Tom Williams’ letter (found on
page four of this weekls Phi) causes con-
cern for us. The behavior he relates in that
letteris unquestionably egregious. The Wash-
ington and Lee community has a responsibil-
ity to the larger Lexington and Rockbridge
area We-have a duty to behave like respon-
sible adults. Our behavior at the Mock Con-
vention Parade is apparently evidence that
we are unable to do so.

The images presented in the letter are
ones more often associated with a Saturday
night fraternity party than a Friday morning at
a middle school.

We understand that Mock Convention
happens only once in our four years and that
it is important to live up the event. But what
possible reason can we have for behaving
like iriibeciles?

No wonder media coverage was sparse
when these are the images we present. Don’t
get us wrong, we thought Mock Con was an .
otherwise smashing success.

The behavior of a small nmnber of stu-
dents, however, was less than acceptable. It
is to those students that we now turn.

We are role models for younger students
in the community. A role model is not ar-
rested at a middle school for drinking too
much. A role model does not vomit off the
back of a poorly constructed ﬂoat. A role
model does not leave beer bottles tucked be-
hind a school bus. A role model does not
relieve herself in front of a classroom win-
dow.

We’re the ones with egg on our faces
this time. Last week, we did not portray our-
selves as the responsible young adults we are.
Instead, we acted less mature than the middle
school students who gawked at our actions.

Maury River Middle School: We are not
able to apologize for the entire student body,
but we can speak for ourselves. The staff of
the Ring-tum Phi would like to apologize for
any offensive behavior we might have en-
gaged in. We hope other members of the stu-
dent bodyarewillingtotakethesarne action.
We are sorry.

 

“The Secret Service is under strict orders that
if Bush is shot, to shoot Quayle immediately.”

~Democratic Front-Runner John Kerry,
during the term of George H.W. Bush.

CAiEvANDiisoN
OPlNIOl\5FDllOR

mm m

 

PAGE 3

more COURTESY or tmluaology.wlu.edu

SPRING DIGGING. These archaelogy students were enrollediriAnthropology 377, aﬁeldarrliaelogiral course offereddu.ririgSpririg Tenn, one of many savedbythe 12-12-6 decision

Washington and Lee is a very unique school with a whole host
of very old traditions. Some students find a few of our unique
traditions questionable (understandably), such as our dominant
Greek scene, or our decades—old alcohol culture. What we are all
agreed on, though, is that those traditions that make Washington
and Lee unique as an academic institution are hallowed, and must
not be altered lest our beloved University lose its soul. Why does

a student come to Washington and Lee instead of an Amherst or a‘

Williams or a Claremont—McKenna? What makes us different from
all the rest? '

I can think of a dozen reasons, but they all
tie in to one important piece of philosophy that
the University adheres to— students come to this
university to learn, and the goal is simply to al-
low them to learn and_live in the most effective

  

manner possible, “nothing more", and nothing less. What makes’

our school unique? Our classes are taught by the professors
themselves (all of whom, without question, are experts who excel
in their fields), and not by graduate students or teaching assis-
tants. Our class sizes (for the most part) are very small, and you
get a lot of individual attention should you desire it. Our Honor
System is the best in the nation, and even though it’s only a very
few students who are dismissed each year, the result is dramatic-
The Honor System is a way of life for students, we all feel safe
taking the word of our peers, and we enjoy privileges like self-
scheduled exams. Additionally, Washington and Lee is one of the
safest campuses around. The things that make us unique are of-
ten the same things that make us strong.

This Saturday, the Board of Trustees announced its decision
on the fate of another of the institutions that make Washington
and Lee unique— Spring Term. Though it only dates back to the
1970s, Spring Term creates many advantages for students, which
I’m sure are all familiar to you by now— wider catalog, special study

lli6iEiii~i‘§Mils“niéE


programs, more classes in general, and so on. Though it has its
costs (which we’re also familiar with), Spring Term provides
unique opportunities and experiences to W&L students. For in-
stance, in my own freshman Spring Term alone, I had the oppor-
tunity to take a course in French history from a visiting Oxford
professor.

We, of course, will not keep our full four-year Spring Term as
it exists today, but the need to change it is real, and there’s a
very good case for the three-year Spring Term, as well as the
other measures that are being implemented to cut costs. Still,
our 12-12-6 schedule remains essentially intact.
Many members of our community worked to save
Spring Term. The hard work of both the 12-12-6 Com-
mittee and our tireless Executive Committee can not
be overestimated. A majority of the faculty, our
teachers, stood up for us as well. But in the end, it came down to
our administrators. ' 5 I

And, I am happy to report this week, our administrators did
not let us down. Though there was great fear that the President
and the Board of Trustees might betray the students’ vision of a
unique and special University, those fears proved unfounded.

What President Burish has proven to us through his recom-
mendation, and what the Board of Trustees has proven through
their decision, is that they are not out to “Swarthmorify” Wash-
ington and Lee. They have proven with more than words that
they value the things that make our University’s academic expe-
rience special. They have proven with decisive action that they
place the students of Washington and Lee above both money
and mere rankings in U.S. News. I can now look forward to many
classes of students passing through Washington and Lee and
sharing the same amazing and enlightening experience that I’m
enjoying right now. For this, I thank and salute President Burish
and the Board of Trustees. ‘

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor

Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor

 

_PHI

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Wass

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderman
Cody Gabbard

Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Stuart Presnell
Rob Rain
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-turn Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: ( 540) 458-4060

Fax: (540) 458-4059

Email: phi @wlu.edu

Subscription rate $40

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir.
Distribution Dir

To have loved and lost or never to have loved at all?

I have been pondering the age old question
of whether or not it is better to have loved and
lost or to have never loved at all. I remember first
being posed this dilemma in 8"‘ grade by my his-
tory teacher, and I have yet to reach a conclu-
sion. Thus far, however, I have tended to follow
the path of choosing to not love at all. As a
young girl, I wanted to be like a boy and carried
myself like one, yelling in gym class and trying
to be as aggressive as my short frame would al-
low me because I thought they had all the fun. I
always had an internal competition with them for
some reason. It might have been
the result of a negative experience
as a very young child in which some
boys in my neighborhood picked
on me and would not let me play
with their toys. When crying didn’t work to
change their demeanor, I resorted to toughness.

But as I grew up, I still maintained an emo-
tional distance from boys because of my nega-
tive experience. In middle school, relationships
never made any sense to me because they lasted
for about two weeks, if that. I remember having
one crush for a whole year on just one boy
(though I never talked to him) and thought it was
very peculiar that everyone else’s crushes ﬂue-
tuated like fashion statements. So I just didn’t
trust the entity of romantic relationships. Ihave
begun to live in fear of a romantic relationship as a
result of seeing my friends’ hearts break too many
times in high school and college.

I have dated, but I end those relationships
quickly because I am very aware of how time
affects a relationship’s progression despite my
lack of personal experience. I end it just right

— before I fall for a guy and ironically just when a

guy falls for me. Yes, it is somewhat cruel, but

 

m'y policy has always been me first, guy second,
as harsh as that may be. Usually, my excuse for
ending things is that the guy is immature, incon-
siderate, has annoying habits, is arrogant, or just
doesn’t get it. I am not saying that the guys
weren’t what I just described, but I rarely if ever
informed them of their disagreeable behavior and
would just cut off communication without any
explanation. Since the relationship hadn’t meant
that much to me yet, I simply assumed it meant
just as little to the guy and didn’t think I needed
to offer any type of explanation.

I can tolerate most
things, but the one thing that
Ihave the most difficulty grap-
pling with is betrayal by any
person within my circle. Ini-
tially, I would simply act as if I didn’t care be-
cause I also have my dignity to uphold. On the
outside, I would appear untouched by the brutal
behavior, but inside, I would be falling apart.
Nothing is more painful in my opinion than a
cold shoulder from a trusted friend. I have seen
how it affects others, and I do not want the same
to happen to me. Most of us at this age are
emotionally immature and irresponsible, not re-

alizing the painful consequences of our actions, '

and I take this into consideration wheneverl meet
a guy. And once this reality hits me, I am handi-
capped from opening any passageway into my
heart. All doors and windows automatically shut.

However, I wonder if I have perhaps missed
out on the chance to be in love, or at least expe-
rience young puppy love because of my barri-
cading fears of being hurt. I have observed some
very fruitful relationships that have lasted and
are the epitome of what a loving and devoted
relationship should be. When I see a truly happy

couple or hear a good love story, my doors and
windows creak open a small bit, but never all the
way. Even when the love is real and devoted,
there is still pain. My father’s love for my mother
is an example of this. They were each other’s first
love and met in the aftermath of the Vietnam War
and ﬂed together to Cambodia. Through their
relationship, they had been each other’s support,
strength, and reason to fight and survive the per-
ils of the Cambodia/Vietnam jungles. But my
mother died in Cambodia when I was two and to
this day, twenty years later, my father still remem-
bers her as though she had just died twenty days
ago. He dreams about her, he speaks to her in his
dreams, and she is in his every thought and ac-
tion. He has never been able to love since, al-
though he has dated. That was the biggest loss
of his life, and he is still recovering. I doubt he
will ever fully recover and move on. I once posed
this question to him, and he said that he would
rather have loved my mother and lost her than to
have never experienced their love at all.

So I am slowly, very, very slowly, widening
the passageways because I do believe in true love.
I hope that you all do too regardless of whatever
pains you may have experienced in past and
present relationships. Sometimes the pain is nec-
essary and unavoidable, like long distances, but a
lot of the times, the pain is unnecessary and sim-
ply destructive, and it is this pain that you need,
to abandon. As long as you remain in this rela-
tionship, you will be as caged as me and miss out
on the chance to really experience the real thing.
One of my philosophies in life is to never settle
for things I can unsettle, so my statement to you
is‘ to never settle when it comes to love because
unlike purses in Chinatown, the real thing cannot
be imitated.

 

Male Bonding. Theater students, playing Hamlet’s Guildenstern and Rosencrantz, exemplify the fraternity emphasis on quality male time which makes plato

         

Greek system discourages interaction between guys and gals

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

the day when the possibility of such relationships is more viable.

The Greek system is amazing. It enables
freshman to drink for free in the fall, and
pay for it during pledgeship. And most of
all it gives all students something to do ev-
ery night, whether that be a band party,
poker tournament, or just some random ac-
tivity.

I didn’t really understand
just how great the Greek sys-
tem was until I went back home
and talked to some of my old
high school friends who went to colleges
where there were no fraternities. The sto-
ries were terrible. A typical Friday or Satur-
day night included finding a 21 year old to
buy them a case of beer, then driving around
all night, looking for a BYOB party so that
they could drink their precious liquid. Sounds
like fun huh?

Fraternities don’t just give you a place
to drink. They are so much more than that.
Fraternities give every guy instant friends
and roommates...wait... let me rephrase
that. Fraternities give each and every guy
instant GUY friends and GUY roommates.

   

Letters to the Editor

Dean Watkins seeks to clarify,
correct article on Buffalo Creek.

I want to make sure to note my extreme dis-
agreement with two statements in the article
“Donate to save Music Festival”: “The
fundraising is a recent announcement by the
adminstration that the festival could not con-
tinue due to liability concerns.” and “The late
announcement of the decision to discontinue
the festival . . . .”

Corrections:

1) Festival organizers were told by the Univer-
sity in October that use of fraternity funds for the
event violated national organization policies.

2) Festival organizers were told in Novem-
ber by a national fraternity representative that
use of fraternity funds for the event violated
national organization policies.

3) I spoke with the key festival organizer in
January and explained that the University encour-
aged them to begin fundraising activities since it
would not be possible for them to use fraternity or
University money to support the event.

We have NEVER said they can’t have their
own festival - we’ve just said we can’t allow
them to break policies to do it and we advised
them of their legal responisbilities and risks they
are incurring should they decide to offer the
event

As you can see by this timeline, festival
organizers were informed one month into this
academic school year and the institution should
not be held responsible for late attempts at fund
raising. S

Sincerely,
Dawn Watkins
Dean of Students

POTATOMAN
 ‘O7 perience, and examine how I

It wasn’t until last week’s Ring-tum Phi,
featuring an article by Tim Smith (you may
know him as Absolut Fratlord), that I realized
the imperfections of the Greek System. While
his article, headlined “Theory of college evo-
lution: changing your high school mold”, had
nothing to do with the Greek
System, it did get me to think
back on my high school ex-

have changed.

Unlike many other
people, I loved high school. It was fun and
crazy, and the friendships I made during those
four years will last a lifetime. I partied and
even did a little work occasionally. Not much
different from college I guess. But wait, more
than half of my friends from high school were
girls. I only have a handful of really good
girl friends in good 01’ Lex.

It took me a while to figure out just why
this change from high school. Did a girl do
me wrong, and now am I trying to avoid them?
God no. Avoid girls? Moi? Not likely. DoI
smell? Well yes, but it’s not like they run

from me desperately looking for a clothespin
to put on their nose to stop the unbearable
stench from entering their airways.

Then it hit me. The Greek system does
not allow guys and girls to have close friend-
ships. Before I go any further, I should prob-
ably clarify something. I am not talking about
hookup buddies, or even girlfriends, these
things are very different from nonsexual,
purely platonic friendships with a member of
the opposite sex.

The first semester is full of freshman guys
trying to prove their masculinity to upper-
classmen in fraternities in the hopes of re-
ceiving a bid. These same guys try to im-
press girls in a similar way. They lay down
the “watch me shotgun this beer, vomit, and
make an ass out of myself, but don’t worry in
high school I drank a whole handle of vodka
once, so I’ll be fine” routine. It is impossible
to form a consistent friendship with a member
of the opposite sex when you are passed out
in the frat basement.

After a little bit of college experience,
freshman guys are thrust into the winter term,

Generals ungentlemanly and
un/adylike during Mock Convention.

FILE PHOTO

nic female friendships extremely difficult. Potato Man hopes for

more notably, pledgeship. A lot of guys
don’t even have time to shower (thus the
reason I smell), much less start or continue
friendships with girls. So once again, a nor-
mal friendship with a female is put off until
spring term, by which time a freshman has
been fraternitized, and will forever be known
as a frat guy, and is changed forever.

I am not complaining by any means. I
wouldn’t trade the friends that I have made
through the fraternity for anything. I feel
free to be myself now more than ever. And I
sure as heck wouldn’t trade a Greek school
for a non-Greek school. I like poker on
Wednesday nights and band parties on Fri-
days. Driving around looking for a bunch
of cars in front of house where there might
be a party just doesn’t sound like fun to me.
I already did that...its called junior year in
high school.

But isn’t there someway to even the see-
saw between male and female friends? If you
can ﬁgure it out let me know. I don’t have time
to figure it out now though, but I think if I hurry
I might just be able to squeeze in a quick shower.

  

Today I spoke with the principal of the Maury River
Middle School, having called her to clear up some sto-
ries I had heard from a variety of sources. Last Friday,
the Mock Convention Parade formed in the parking lot
of this school. She reported the following, based upon
her ﬁrst—hand observation Friday morning.

1) Washington and Lee students asked, and were
granted permission to use the school’s bathrooms.
After a while the noise and prevalent odor of alcohol
resulting from this use caused her to ask the W&L
students to leave, which they did. Shortly thereafter,
our students found another entrance to the school
and began to enter again, against her expressed
wishes.

2) Washington and Lee students were urinating
outdoors, visible from the windows of the school.

3) A Washington and Lee student was seen vom-
iting from the back of a ﬂoat while it was in the school
parking area.

4) Beer was left in the school parking lot.

I cannot imagine anyone here at Washington and
Lee defending this behavior, in this place, as accept-
able. The report of this behavior raises the following
questions:

How should we, as a community, express our re-
grets and offer retribution to the Maury River Middle
School?

What should we do to assure we, as a commu-
nity, behave with more respect towards our neigh-
bors in the future?

The great majority of what I heard and saw of
this year’s Mock Convention was quite positive.
Nonetheless, this does not excuse the actions de-
scribed above.

Sincerely
H.T. Williams, Provost

A WANTED:

Summer Scholars Counselors

June 30 — July 31, 2004

Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to experience working with high school students
while staying at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee Summer Scholars Program is an
exciting four Week academic program for approximately 150 rising high school seniors. We are looking for
responsible students to help guide participants and to plan extracurricular activities such as talent shows, lip
syncs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen and more. ‘

For information about the position please contact Dr. Mimi Milner Elrod at 458-8727. You may pick up
an application from her in the Summer Scholars Office located in the Hill House.

The deadline for turning in applications is February 27, 2004.

 

Moisronoceuﬁs

FEBRUARY 1 i & 12

7PM

ELROD COMMONS THEATER

$1 2 in advance

$15 at the door

All proﬁts to beneﬁt Missing Women of Juarez
and Covington Shelter for Women

DAV

UNTIL THE VQOLENCE STOPS
wa.am.-ajmamzm

SPONSORED BY THE WOMEN LAW STUDENTS ORGANIZATION

Peace Corps

Life is calling. ﬂfowfar will you go?

    

Speak w/1’/7 a recru/"fer and retumeo’ volunteer at one of
these 1/,oco/n/ng on-campus events and/eam why the
Peace Corps /19 507/ me ‘tong/yes!/ob you7/ ever /ave/”

Wednesday, February 1'!

Information Table

10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.- 7:00 p.m.
John Elrod Commons Career Services
Room 345

For more information contact Jason Kaneat
800-424-8580 or /7rane@,oeaceco/ps. gov.

800-424-8530

  

 

Information Session

www.peacecorps.gc

JOHNHYLAAD
AstrANrS1>oiusEnnoA
FMAll:HYlAND@Ww.Pl)U
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

  

S .

var‘  {}~Tt.?trtl)t-
RT§

 

PAGE 5

Womens’ basketball drops three to ODAC competition

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball
team lost three ODAC conference games this week
to Roanoke, Randolph-Macon Woman’s College,
and Guilford. 1

Roanoke slipped past the Generals, 50-47, last
Sunday at home. The Maroons took control of the
lead with only 0:50 left in the first half and contin-
ued to stay ahead for the rest of the game.

Roanoke reached its largest lead at 47-40 with
3:11 left in the game, but the Generals soon closed
in on the gap. Freshman forward Jessica Hunsinger
sank her shot to put the score at 49-47. But
Roanoke’s freshman guard Cindy McGraw made a
foul shot with only 0:25 left in the game to reach the
ﬁnal score of 50-47.

Sophomore guard Louisa Feve scored a total
of 15 points and had 9 rebounds for the day.
Hunsinger totaled 13 points and 13 rebounds. Jun-
ior guard Bethany Darinelly also contributed with
11 points.

Leading the Maroons in points was senior

guard Meghan McCue with nine points and three
rebounds. McGraw totaled eight points and two
rebounds for the game.

The two teams were about even in shooting
percentage from the field with 35 percent for
Roanoke and 30.9 percent for Washington and Lee.
The Generals had 15 turnovers, while the Maroons
only had eight.

The Generals lost another close game to
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College on Tuesday,
57-41.

Washington and Lee controlled the lead up
until 10:09 in the first half, but RMWC turned it
around and led 29-22 at the end of the half. The
WildCats never let go of the lead, ending the game
at 57-41.

Senior forward Sarah Michaels totaled 14
points and 12 rebounds for the Generals. Hunsinger
also posted 12 points and 15 rebounds.

For the VVildCats, senior guard Amy Dameron
tallied 19 points and 9 rebounds; Sophomore for-
ward Megan Stensrud added 12 points to the score.

The VV1ldCats dominated in shooting with 33.9

ARINOS

BRING rr ON. Freshman Chris Halkitis takes on a defender in one of the team’s losses this past Week.

Men’s basketball enters new slump after win

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

Despite coming off of a win to Roanoke, the men’s
basketball team fell back in to a slump Wednesday when
they took on Emory and Henry. The game was a close one
(49-48), but the Generals couldn’t hang on for the win. Emory
and Henry swished a three-pointer with 4.8 seconds re-

maining in the game to secure the victory.

Freshman Chris Halkitis lead the Generals with 16

Landes. Landes followed his teammate with 13 points.
Next the team competed against 8th ranked Hampden
Sydeny. The game ended in complete victory for Hampden
Sydney (76-45). Though the game started somewhat slowly,
the Hampden Sydney quickly took over the courts and never

looked back.

The Generals didn’t play without a good ﬁght." Fresh-
man Coleman Lyons earned 14 points for the Generals. Se-
niors Hamill Jones and sophomore Matt Lawless each scored

percent, compared to the Generals’ 24.1 percent.
RMWC also had fewer turnovers with only 1 1. The
Generals tallied 19 turnovers.

Washington and Lee also lost on the road to
Guilford on Friday, 69-38.

The Generals brieﬂy took the lead with 7:25
left in the first half when junior forward Emily Barker
hit a jumper to put the score at 17-19. But the Quak-
ers came back and took control for the rest of the
game.

Hunsinger tallied 14 points and 14 rebounds
to lead the way for Washington and Lee. Michaels
also added 12 points and 3 rebounds for the Gener-
als.

Senior guard Dara Burke totaled ten points and
seven rebounds for the Quakers.

Guilford shot 45.8 percent during the game and
had 19 turnovers. Washington and Lee had 26
percent shooting from the ﬁeld and 23 turnovers.

The Generals are now 8-13 and 5-11 in the
ODAC. Washington and Lee meets up with
Lynchburg at home for another ODAC contest on
Tuesday. Game time is scheduled for 7:00 p.m.

  

COURTESY SPORTS INFORMATION

LEADING THE TEAM. Freshman Jessica Hunsinger
helped lead the team in scoring in recent games.

Wrestling loses two
at Albright tri-meet

Albright

Little (W&L), Fall 1:56

165- Joe Selba (JH) def. Walter
3 Hoyt (W&L), Fall :49

184- Rob Curry (JH) def. Max

ALBRIGHT 39, W&L 3

149- Corey Little (W &L)
def.Brandon Cuffee (AC), 10-5
165- Ezra Montesino (AC) def.
Walter Hoyt (W&L), Fall 40
184- Eric Drew (AC) def. Max
Courtney (W&L), 8-5

HE ING-TUM HI

W&L vs. CENTENARY
COLLEGEWRESTLERS

Harris (CC), 12-4

Hoyt (W&L), Fall 2: 15

Courtney, Injury Default

tri-meet results

A JOHNS HOPKINS 58, W&L 0
149 -Tirn Hulme (JH) def. Corey

Courtney (W&L), Maj. Dec. 13-2

149- Corey Little (W&L) def. Isiah
165- Ken Jacoby (CC) def. Walter

184- Keith Kubicek (CC) def. Max

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

READING, Pa. —- The Washington
and Lee wrestling team dropped a pair of
matches in the Albright tri-meet on Satur-
day afternoon. The Generals fell to Cen-
temiial Conference foe Johns Hopkins, 58-
0, before losing to Albright, 39-3, in non-
conference action.

Senior 149-pounder Corey Little.
(Charlotte, N .C./Independence) recorded
W&L’s (0-6, 0-4) only dual—meet victory
of the day when he scored a 10-5 decision
over Albright’s Brandon Cuffee. Little also
picked up a victory over Centenary Col-
lege grappler Isiah Harris. He won that
bout with a 12-4 major decision.

W&L will be back on the mat next
Saturday at 12:00 noon when it competes
in the Muhlenberg Quadrangular.

COURTESYSPORTS RMA ON

points. Also scoring for the Generals was sophomore Phil 8 points. SENIOR COREYLI'I'I‘I.E
  '1' W ’ S ’
HIS EEK S C *DULE
Tuesday, February 10 Wednesday, February 11 Thursday, February 12 Friday, February 13 Saturday, February 14 Sunday, February 15
0 W Basketball vs. 0 M Basketball vs. 0 Open 0 W Basketball at 0 Wkestling at 0 Open

Lynchburg--7 :00

Guilford-- 7:00

Rand0lph-Macon-- 7:00
0 M Swimming at Blue-

grass--TBA Mennonite--7:00

0 Riding at Randolph- 4 0 M Swim at Bluegrass--
Macon Womens ’/LC Inv- TBA

-TBA

Muhlenberg Quad--12:00
0 M Basketball at Eastern

(Ring-tum Phi

 

.

   

5'|'$'l‘RAVEI..€OM

Jnﬁlmwiws ﬁtuirdcaﬂawvpeeuke

     

Sell

1?? 5, term Cash, Go Free!
How '

 
1-830~&€3-#84”? I mwwmrsmzi-.zom l

 

Is anyone else
depressed that We can ’t
Waste our Weelren ds
Wa telling football for

six months?

 

mag ﬁwtampm Reps

  
     

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!
Space is limited! Book Now & Save!

endlesssummertours.com

1-800-234-7007

 

 

- , L the week ending January 31.

    

PAGE 6

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — Washington and Lee se-
nior Eric Ritter (Birmingham, A1aJMountain Brook)
has been recognized as the Division III National
Swimmer of the Week by CollegeSwirnrning.com for

Ritter propelled the Generals to a 117-60 win
over Marymount and an undefeated dual-meet sea-
son with top performances in the 200 Back and the
400 Medley Relay.

He emerged as the top ﬁnisher in the 200 Back
(1253.79), but his performance in the winning 400
Medley Relay (3241.58) was the highlight of the
day. Leading off the relay with the 100 Back leg,
Ritter set a pool record with an NCAA “A”-cut time
of 51.38. He joins Tim Stanford (‘86) as the only
two Generals to hold records in the Cy Twombly
Memorial Pool.

Ritter and the Generals return to action on Feb.

"=1-Jl73.ll'~¥-‘~”'°.El»v1?'l’.=’

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

    SPORTS
Ritter named Division III

Swimmer of the Week

Senior earns national recognition for Maiymount performance

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s indoor track and ﬁeld squads
were in action at the VMI Winter Relays on Satur-
day afternoon. The Generals combined for two-top-
place performances a.r1d a pair of school records
while competing against Division I and Division III
competition.

For the W&L women, sophomore Betsy Frayer
(Grand Rapids, Mich./East Grand Rapids) emerged
as the top runner in the 3,000-meter run, besting all
competitors with a time of 1 1:30.44.

Freshmen Kathryn Brennan (New Orleans, La./
Isidore Newman) and Sara Behrnerwohld (San Juan
Capistrano, Calif./Dana Hills) used their perfor-
mances to set a pair of new standards for the Gen-
erals’ program. Brennan vaulted to a program-
record mark of 9’4.25” in the pole vault, while

Indoor track teams compete
against VMI on Saturday

Two school records broken at competition

Junior Meredith Walker (Travelers Rest, S.C./
Christ Church Episcopal), junior Ann Tompkins
(McLean, Va./Potomac School) and freshman Hunt-
ley Rodes (Nashville, Tenn./Harpeth Hall) were also
among the Generals’ leaders. Among Division III
sprinters in the 200-meter dash, Walker took sec-
ond (29.24), Tompkins took third (29.60) and Rodes
took fourth (29.82).

For the men, juniors Nathan Johnson (Lexing-
ton, Va./Rockbridge County) and Steven Chambers
(Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area) led W&L with the
top-two finishes in the 3,000-meter run. Johnson
won the event with a 9:02.95 clocking, while Cham-
bers crossed the tape second in a time of 9:14.11.

Junior Chris Walker (Centreville, Va./Paul IV)
took top weight—throw honors among Division IH
participants with a distance of 44’ 5.25”, whilejun—
ior Brian Krupczak (Cohasset, Mass./Cohasset)
was Division III’s second-place ﬁnisher in the 55-
meter dash with a time of 6.70 seconds.

13 at the Bluegrass Mountain Conference Champi— ' SpoRT5IN1=oRMAT1oN Behmerwohld clocked W&L’s fastest—ever 55-meter Both W&L squads retum to action on Sunday 7

     
  

 

onships. - SENIOR Emc RITIEK. dash with a 9.59 performance. at the Christopher Newport Invitational.
, . .
Support Generals athletics over feb break in your hometown »
A Wrestlin A’/' '
.  9 S5 0’//) r
M ns’ B06‘ij\:nnoi\'i’iel'.00 Pm Sat., Feb. 14 at Muhlenberg Quad (Baptist 8 ’ F94 27 .9/WU/I99
Easlel“ 1 00 Pm Bible, Elizabethtown, Muhlenberg) 12:00 pm 5 /” /fa//'0 “Were
A 14 at -A ewalel . "/1, Feb ”3/ 76/1 ’ v
sat.."’e ' b 1815- B” Sat., Feb. 21 Centennial Conference 339a/(/,,,1, ,
W99» 9 ' Championships 11:00am /”"’/<917'0/ia/ /‘$40/L”.<7/ii/.'5»
ma“  Baseball Me ‘
. . , /7,9’
. Basie _ Mon., Feb. 16 at Oglethorpe 3.30pm 5;,’ F ac,
\Noit\9“5 'dgewatet7-00 pm Wed., Feb. 18 at Emory 2:00 pm 9”’: 20<9/Gree/7sb0SSe ’'
Wed”; .18 B“ Thu., Feb. 19 at Ogelthorpe 3:00 pm 0'0 330p
Sat., Feb. 21 Villa Julie (DH) 12:00pm ,
‘V
1 _
1' ’
O
Rea ity. ,
iiiiiii  “I don’t have the
V.
_  : required courses
The Johns Hopkin ost-Bacca ureate , ”
premedical Prgg m for medical school. .
graduates with st
apply to the best ,
them the person
science and mat courses ‘
academic advisin:
If you or someone ou know wants to pursue a it
career as a docto apply by March 1.
For more informa n, visit " :
www.jhu.edulpo*:sp ac or call 410-516-7748.
'   IOHNS HOPKINS
Post-Baccalaureate ‘ 13
Premedical Program
Wash & Lee Post Bac 04 I x’

 

 

PAGE 7

A

 

P“ LIEE

l/IECANMORGAN

Ans&L.A~EmoR A ‘=

FMAI:M()R(‘AlWl@WwH)U
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

More than Mainstream: independent woman Rian Lewis

Someone pointed out that in all our discus-
sion of rush and pledgeship, we had ignored
one of the largest minority groups on campus:
independent women. The issues facing indepen-
dent women can be very different than those
facing independent men. Rian Lewis knows
those challenges well and has successfully navi-
gated the social cycles of W&L without a Greek
affiliation. A junior psychology major from Win-
chester, Virginia, Rian has never
regretted being an independent.
A self described “turbo psyc-
nerd,” Rian keeps herself busy 
through a wide array of activities beyond the
Greek system: “I’m a bleeding heart liberal and
an officer in Young Democrats. I am also a co-
Chair of the Gay-Straight Alliance, a dorm coun-
selor, a peer counselor, and am on the
Multicultural Student Advisory Board. Oh and
school,” Rian explains.

Rian is glad she rushed. “It’s a fun experi-

  

M ence,” Rian recalls. With a chuckle, she explains,

“Rush is a game. It's people I’ve never met be-
fore pretending to care about my name and where
I’m from.” All in all, “it was very entertaining”
and a memorable time.

Rian came to W&L for a variety of reasons.

MORETHANMAIl\IS'l'REAM

. 

“It was the best school I got into. Initially I was
very turned off by the idea of going to a school
that I wouldn’t fit into—nostalgic for Reagan,
Greek oriented. My dad went here though, and
he encouraged me to give it a shot, so I thought,
‘What the hell?’” Arriving at W&L, Rian, like
many freshmen knew little about Greek life. Lack-
ing the ability to discern a Psifrom a ‘Delta, Rian
decided to take a laid back approach to the en-
tire system. She rushed be-
cause it was something that
she felt she should do—after
all, everyone else did.

At the end of rush
week, Rian decided that sorority life was not for
her. Withdrawing from rush is a decision Rian is
glad she made. “I’m not committed to meetings
and rush workshops or being forced into a so-
cial circle,” Rian said, which is good for her busy
schedule.

Sorority t-shirts might be the one thing
Rian misses about not being in a sorority. “I’ve

never had a moment of regret at all, though I

will admit that I have t-shirt envy. They are so
clever and witty! W&L mainstream t-shirts just
aren't as good.” Among her favorites are the
Theta and company shirt, the Coca—cola

themed tees, the KD shirt with Audrey
Hepburn, and this year’s KD bid day shirt.
Beyond the expansive amount of t-shirts
she is missing out on, Rian’s experience as an
independent has been a good one. Even the
biggest challenges can be overcome she ex-
plains. “You do have to go make an extra ef-
fort to be social. You don’t have social events
scheduled for you,” Rian says. To indepen-
dent freshmen she issues the advice, “Being
in a sorority is not the be all, end all at Wash-
ington and Lee. Winter term freshman year is
probably the hardest time to be an indepen-
dent. All the girls are having their first mixers
and socials, and they are going through
pledgeship. Its gets a lot easier and you can
have a very happy social life. You can have a
very fulfilling social life without Greek letters.”
Though an independent, Rian thinks the
Greek system is necessary at Washington and
Lee. “I think its good, and I think W&L needs
it. What else would there be to do in Lex?” she
laments. As a dorm counselor, Rian had an in-
teresting perspective on Rush week this year.
She is grateful for the opportunities that being
a DC has given her. “I have eleven girls in four
houses. I encouraged them all to go through

STEVEN MARINOS TRING-7vMPH1

rush. I joked about rushing for the indepen-
dents, but I wasn’t very successful. They all
found the sorority that was right for them.”

Valentine’s Day activities in the Lexington area

BY MAGGIE SPEARMAN
STAFF WRITER

The Superbowl has
been played, Mock Con has
come and gone, and “Feb
Break” is only days away.
This could only mean one
thing. Everyone’s favorite
holiday, Valentine’s Day, is
rapidly approaching. While
some people shudder at the
idea of celebrating this ro-
mantic day with that special
someone, there are those
people who look forward to
it each year.

For those of you who
refuse to recognize
Valentine’s Day, that is fine.

This article is not for you.

However, for the rest of
you, regardless of your dat-
ing status, read on. You
may be thinking that Lex-
ington is that last place you
would want to spend this
special day, but let me per-
suade you otherwise.
Couples in search of a ca-
sual meal to those who want
a weekend getaway, Lexing-
ton has the answer.

Those of you who want
to kick of the festivities a
few days early can attend
the Washington and Lee
Men’s Basketball game
against Guilford on
Wednesday, February 11 at
7 pm. It is “Valentine’s
Cheap Date Night,” and the
first 50 couples will receive
free popcorn, soda, and
candy. Game giveaways will
also include dinner at the
Wilson-Walker House,

Fancy Dress tickets, and
chocolates from the Cocoa
Mill.

Lexington is also host-
ing the third annual Choco-
late Lovers’ Weekend from
February 13-16. People can
enjoy a wide range of
events throughout the
weekend: carriage rides
through downtown Lexing-
ton, wine, beer, and choco-
late tasting, and a pancake
breakfast, just to name a
few opportunities.

If a simple dinner is
more your style, the
Sheridan Livery is the
place to go. Chefs have
prepared a special menu for
Valentine’s Day weekend
that includes a chocolate
souffle topped with a rasp-
berry sauce and fresh
strawberries for dessert.

In addition to these ro-
mantic activities, Lexington
also has an assortment of
Valentine’s, Day gifts.
Whether it’s for that special
someone, a good friend, or
even for yourself, Fun
Foods and Accessories has
the answer. You can show
your significant other just
how you feel with a packet
of traditional conversation
hearts or chocolate bars
bearing the saying “I love
you.” Get in the mood with
scented candles or a jar of
“Love Fudge.” Single girls,
you can even purchase the
ideal boyfriend at Fun
Foods and Accessories.
With a choice of Mr. Right,
Lover Boy, and Mr. Perfect,
you can “Grow a Boyfriend”

in just seconds by placing
this small figure in a cup of
water and watching him ex-
pand.

Hopefully these ideas
have motivated at least
some of you to take advan-
tage of what Lexington has
to offer for this year’s

Frﬂlll. .l:GlJfl1ﬂf}' '13 »-  2004.
M41 *9 n get--acwn_v for a
Cl10'COl¢‘tl’£' Lover-'5 Wrcelzeiitl
in Lexington}, X-"'ir__»,;*:x‘-Ilia!

\‘¢'i.tl... |mcl2n;;';e.s st.1z'='ti'ng' at only $1359,
you cnutt .1'l [orcl icy inies out on this
sgwec-t clenl.

Valentine’s Day. With a
wide range of activities, at
least one is fit for you.
Whether it be an intimate
dinner for two or a day of
beer and chocolate tasting,
enjoy your Valentine’s Day,
it only comes around once
a year.

New play performed
at Washington and Lee

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
A$lSTAN'I'
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

“Metamorphoses”
weaves together love, trag-
edy, change, and victory to
incite the audience and seize
their attention. The play is a
contemporary version of
Ovid’s Greek myths. What
makes “Metamorphoses”
unique is that it is performed
in a pool.

The play begins with the
story of Creation. Following
the Creation are eleven
scenes. During each of these
acts a character changes in
some form. The cast is phe-
nomenal in that they bring
each of the eleven scenes to
life. Seniors Brandon
Waddell, Charlie Boisky, and
Jeremy Mims stirred the audi-
ence with their portrayals of
many characters. Other cast
members included Ligia
Abreu, Bahskar Banerjee,
Caleb Dulis, Ruth Esponda,
Joseph I-Iarouni, Anna
Heatwole, Kelly Kopicial ’96,
Julian Ledford, Sarah Orvin,
Sheryl Silvers, Paige Smith,
and Victoria Stanham.

Midas is the first scene in
the play. Boisky plays King
Midas. The gods grant him
one wish. He wishes to
change himself so that every-
thing he touches will turn to
gold. The god Bacchus,
played by Banerjee, warns
King Midas that it is a bad
idea. He turns his daughter,

played by Abreu, into gold —
one of the many tragic ele-
ments of the play.

Orpheus and Eurydice’s
scene is another tragic, but ex-
cellent, part of “Metamorpho-
ses.” Waddell plays Orpheus,
a musician whose bride,
Eurydice, dies on their wed-
ding day. The story follows
Orpheus into the underworld

where he has gone to ask for . '.

his bride back.

Boisky, Smith, Abreu,
Orvin, and Dulis act in the
twisted tale of Pomona and
Vertumnus.
love with Pomona, but she ex-
presses no interest. He then
tells her a story about what
happens to girls who ignore
love.

The myth of Phaeton was ' ‘

particularly amusing. Phaeton,
played by Waddell, is the son
of the sun, Apollo, played by
Ledford. Phaeton is getting

therapy for the deep hurt he '

has from being the son of the
sun. Waddell’s acting was

great and he had the whole '

audience in laughter during
this scene.

This play evokes many :‘:'

emotions. It was funny one
minute and tragic the next.
“Metamorphoses” was an en-
joyable piece of my weekend. I

highly recommend this perfor— ' '

mance to the every student.
There are only three showings
of “Metamorphoses” remaining.
They will be performed at The

Lenfest Center for Performing 2. ‘ '. '

Arts tonight, tomorrow, and
Wednesday in the small theatre.

Feb Break

The Ring-tum Phi wishes you a great

LISTEN:
91.5 FM

Let us help you look and feel

Tom James Company
Interviews?

Internship?
Special occasion?

your best!!

Vertumnus is in 

University
A Cleaners

THE CLEANEST OF THE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING,

LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS
. Short walk to W & L and downtown. Remodeled

, 1885 Historic home on Institute Hill. New kitchen
Great Service

with all new appliances. 4 B/R, 1 1/2 Bath, storage
If First-Rate Quality

Custom and Ready Made Suits

Washington and Lee Radio and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories

HOME FOR SALE

704 N 0. Main St., Lexington ‘—‘—‘g—St"de"t Pack“ es &

Gi t Certi icates Available

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or

room and large laundry/workroom with washer.& with questions

dryer. Shows like a model home. Asking $229,000.

Call (540) 464-3738 540-815-1557

7 N0Yl3h Jeffefsm Street Adam.Williams@tomjamesretail.com

, ' 463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

 

 

PAGE 8

 

WORD

 

MEGANMORGAN
ARIs&L1EEEDIroR

EMAt.M3RcANME@o<i1JE11J

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

Sports movie genre produces ‘spectacular films’

Occasionally, a seasoned columnist keeps an idea in his
hip pocket to fall back on in case his weekend is tied up
in a poker tournament and some famous lovin’. Last
Friday, Miracle hit the big screen. The ﬁlm recounted
when the United States defeated the massively favored
Soviet Union in Olympic hockey at the 1980 games at
Lake Placid. This cosmic clash of good I ~
vs. evil, capitalism vs. communism, and .
professionalism vs. arnateurism, argu

ably delivered sports’ all-time grandest
upset. Plots of this genre usually pro
duce spectacular ﬁlms. This columnist and his good
buddies give you a comprehensive breakdown of the
best and worst sports movies in speciﬁed categories.

 

The John Schaufele Category—Children’s Films——
The Sandlot

The Sandlot gets the nod overAngles in the Outﬁeld and
the Mighty Ducks. Bennie "The Jet” Rodriguez could
start in centerﬁeld for the hapless Angels who needed
Christopher "Ihe Doc” Lloyd to vault them into _the pen-
nant race where Tony Danza gave his all—time ﬁnest per-
formance. Quoting Schaufele, “The Sandlot is the great-
est movie of all time. Ever.” The Mighty Ducks probably
had more inﬂuence on our generation with the Triple Deke,
the Flying V and “Quack, Quack. . .” but the subsequent

THE TRIPLE-OPTION
-.,lAISE.TEQTJER:fQf___

urmeoessary sequels drop it from first to third.
Honorable Mention:

Angels in the Outﬁeld, Mighty Ducks, Little Big
League

The Clark Finney Category——The Underdog
Wins»-—Hoosiers '
Like Finney, this small-time coun-
try squad went big time and won
the state title. The Natural is too
good for this category and Rudy
is not good enough. Seabiscuit
never won a coveted Triple Crown race and Rocky
never lost to anyone not named Mr. T.

Honorable Mention:

The Natural, Rudy, Rocky, Seabiscuit, The Rookie,

‘ Radio, Chariots of Fire, Bloodsport

The Jim Sargent Category-Comedies—Major
League I and II

This category has a strong list of contenders. Most
movie watchers would probably go with the first
Caddyshack, but our crack staff of voters decided
that Major League II crushes the second

Caddyshack——yes, there is a second——and lifts it‘

over the overrated Bull Durham. Bob Uecker’s “Just
a bit outside” is probably the best line of all in this
ﬁeld. '

Honorable Mention:

Happy Gilmore, Caddyshack, Bull Durham, Slap Shot,
The Waterboy, Baseketball, Celtic Pride, Forget Paris,
Cool Runnings

The Sigma Chi Freshmen Pledge Class Cat-
egory—Overrated—Raging Bull

Like the Sigma Chi Pledge Class, Raging Bull and
A League of Their Own get raving reviews from
the respective IFC and Movie critics. However,
having seen both the Sigma Chi Pledge Class and
Raging Bull and co., it is easy to conclude that not
only are the aforementioned marginal, but over-
rated as well.

Honorable Mention.‘

A League of Their Own, Any Given Sunday,
The Bad News Bears, Finding Forrester, Tin
Cup, Ali 1

The Chris Surdo and Leah Greenberg Cat-
egory—Romances——Days of Thunder

Cutting Edge (ﬁgure skating) makes Days of Thun-
der earn its keep. Matt Fink’s favorite movie Sum-
mer Catch makes a valiant push, but falls short at
third.

Honorable Mention:

Cutting Edge, Summer Catch, For the Love of the
Game, Love and Basketball

The Cameron Lord Category—Tear-jerkers-—
Heaven Can Wait

These movies could make Cameron Lord cry twice.
Heaven Can Wait is a forgotten classic and has been
tarred by the recent Chris Rock remake of the movie
in the altered form of Down to You. What similarities
do a 70s Los Angeles Rams quarterback and a 90s
comedian have in common? Nothing. Brian’s Song
popularized the name “Brian” for the Baby Boomers
to which we owe for our fearless IFC president.
Honorable Mention:

Brian’s Song, Remember the Titans, Field of Dreams,
The Sixth Man

The Jess Lipsey Category—Hidden Gem—The
Longest Yard

What do Lipsey and Burt Reynolds have in com-
mon? Once footbal1’s over, they throw down every
single night. Reynolds, though, has not closed the
Palms down in a record string of 47 consecutive Sat-
urdays. The HBO original frlm *6l could be the best
baseball movie ever made this side of The Natural
and Field of Dreams. Castleberry gives his highest
recommendation to Hoop Dreams.

Honorable Mention‘:

*6l, Hoop Dreams, The Program, Junction Boys, He
Got Game, Blue Chips, White Men Can’t Jump

Dead fraternities in W&L’s past

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

The thought of more fra-
ternities at Washington and
Lee is hard to imagine, but
forty years ago, we had a
few more than we do now.
Most current students know
the drama that unfolded dur-
ing our time with Sigma Phi
Epsilon and what happened
about a decade ago with
Delta Tau Delta. Most, how-
ever, are oblivious to what
made the other fraternities
disappear.

The mid 1960s to the
early 1980s brought hard
times to the Greek System at
Washington and Lee. The
early 1970s marked the low-
est percentage of men join-
ing fraternities which was at
less than fifty five percent.
As a result, Kappa Alpha,
Kappa Sigma, Delta Upsilon,
and Sigma Phi Epsilon all
dissipated because of finan-
cial hardships. Delta Upsi-
lon was the only fraternity
that did not try to re—colo-
nize during the fraternity re-
vival of the early 1980s.

Alpha Tau Omega was
founded at VMI. The Beta
chapter was founded at
Washington and Lee a few
years later. Most students
have heard the famous cam-
pus urban legend that sur-
rounds this fraternity. Ac-
cording to legend, the broth-
ers of ATO hijacked a train,
and not being a very honor-
able thing to do, got kicked
off campus. Buddy Atkins,

Acting Dean of the Elrod
University Commons be-
lieves that this is strictly leg-
end.

The real reason ATO is
no longer at Washington
and Lee is because of hous-
ing. Fraternity houses be-
gan construction in the
1920s. Every fraternity ex-
cept ATO obtained their
mortgage through the Uni-
versity. This was to have ex-
tra freedom. World War II
essentially stopped frater-
nity activity. After the war
was over, the creditor
wanted not only current rent,
but also rent from the four
previous years. The house
could not survive financially.

Zeta Beta Tau was a
thriving Jewish fraternity
prior to the mid 1960s lo-
cated in the current Kappa
Sig house. “They were sell-
ing themselves as an alter-
native to a fraternity,” said
Atkins. Starting in 1964, J ew-
ish students started to look
at other fraternities besides
ZBT. This started a down-
ward trend that continued
into the 1980s for ZBT.
When fraternities made their
comeback, ZBT could not re-
cruit anymore. No student
wanted an alternative to a
fraternity; they actually
wanted a real fraternity.

Phi Epsilon Pi, located
at the present KA house,
was another, less success-
ful Jewish Fraternity. In
1969, Phi Epsilon Pi merged
into ZBT. The brothers re-
fused to merge with their
next door neighbors and
formed their own fraternity,

Psi Upsilon, which lasted
for approximately five
years.

The successful ‘coloni-
zation of Chi Psi in 1977
brought hope to some of
the dead fraternities. VKA
obviously had pressure to
return since they are the
Alpha Chapter. SPE and
Kappa Sig also made come-
backs to campus. What is
surprising is that ATO did
not try to re—colonize since
Lexington is home to their

Alpha Chapter as well.
' KA bought "Psi
Upsilon’s house, SPE

moved in beside FIJI, and
Kappa Sig moved into the
Outing Club House. The
Fraternity Renaissance of
the late 1980s brought
changes to the fraternity
scene. SPE, Kappa Sig, and
Sigma Chi all had houses
that could not be renovated
to meet acceptable stan-
dards. The plan was to
build 3 new houses in
Davidson Park, but with the
death of ZBT, Kappa Sig
moved to their current loca-
tion. Sigma Chi moved from
Lee Street, currently the
Communications Office, to
Davidson Park along with
SPE.

The early 1990s
brought the death of Delt,
and 2003 the surprise sus-
pension of SPE. No one can

predict what the next big

Greek event will be for
Washington and Lee, even
though it appears the re-
emergence of SPE in 2006-
2007 will get that distinc-
tion.

I.ooKrNG DOWN ON THE PAST

Old George. Recently, a replica of the Old George statue that sits atop Washington Hall appeared in the
Commons lobby. This statue has played an important role in past Washington and Lee traditions. When the
statue was first erected in the 18405, students frequently painted the statue various colors. W&L freshmen
usually painted it blue while VMI cadets also painted the statue, using their school colors red and yellow. The
statue was painted so often that when it was scraped in 1949, layers came off that were an inch and a quarter
thick. It was estimated that there must have been around 125 layers of paint on the statue. In recent years, the
statue has been painted only infrequently including once in 1958 and Fancy Dress Weekend in 1974. At the
time, Security was unsure how the students were able to access the statue, although they hypothesized that the
students got onto the roof through the third floor of Washington Hall and then used a ladder with a central
extension to get one person on top of the podium to paint the statue.

“is

Q Who is “unstable Bob?”

 

Q The most amazing English professor ever . . .
Professor Craun!

Q Kudos to the person who dolled up Cyrus
McCormick over the weekend. Now he has some
bling to go along with his reaper.

Q Tell prospective students not to apply to

Washington and Lee. It is turning into PCU and we
can all thank Dawn Watkins and Teresa Glassman.

Q I think Kisha Barnes (Ms. NAACP) has a beau-
tiful smile and needs to smile more often. Can you
be my Valentine?

Q Give peas a chance.

Q SoAmy . . . lunch?

Q I heard some kid in the freshman class used to
have a house in Vermont.

Q Word is there are two shoes lurking around
the freshman dorms. Maybe they should get
toghether and tie laces.

Q What animal should you never play cards with?
A cheetah.

Q Mrs. Burish, please don’t ever again let your
husband out of the house with the sweater he wore
Tuesday night.

Q Could someone please ask “Chaz-dunk” and
“Lolli” to stop writing Quick Hits about themselves.
Here is a hint: No one cares.

Q Trivial Pursuit IS fratty!

Q It’s the car I have always wanted, and now I
have it. I rule!

Q “Aaaaaaaaaaamen. Sing it with me now.
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaamen, little louder now!”

Q Snaps to Puerto Rico and the Democrats
Abroad roll calls for being the only thing funnier
than Burr’s amens.

Q Wearing spandex and cycling during the Mock
Con parade is about as cool as being Richard
Simmons.

Q We’ve got the magic stick, if by magic stick
you mean oranges. —Florida delegation sign

Q Who else is surprised that Tom Burish turned
out to be the hero in the Spring Term saga?

Q If sleep deprivation is reason enough to can-
cel pledgeship than Professor DeLaney’s classes
should also be called off.

Q Happy Birthday to W&L grad Roger Mudd,
who turns 76 today.

Q Thanks to the 12-12-6 committee for all your
hard work to save Spring Term.

Q Don’t forget to buy your Valentine a song from
J ubiLee in the Commons Lobby.

Q Third—ﬂoor Graharn—Lees above the breezeway
is the best hall in freshman history.

Q Today is the l63rd anniversary of Jefferson
Davis’ election to the presidency of the Confeder-
ate States of America.

Q Tom Brady is a hottie!

Q This week Janet Jackson’s boob popped out
of its hole and saw its shadow. Now we’ll have six

moreweeks of overreaction.

Q Happy Birthday to Bill Brooks.

Q The difference between jam and jelly is that
jam has seeds. So what’s marmelade?

Q How did you celebrate Ronald Reagan’s birth-
day on Friday?

Q So how long has Cyrus been wearing those
Mardi Gras beads?

Q Go to the Women’s Basketball game on Tues-
day against Lynchburg. It’s_a big ODAC contest.

Q So, did GDI have its pledgeship canceled, too?

Q Way to go Bryan Early-— big winner in this
weekend’s interfraternity poker tournament!

Q FYI: The campaign “For the Rising Generation”
surpassed its fundraising goal by $17.5 million or
eight percent. Super job, Development Office!

Q Cheers to KD and KKG for throwing a risk
management—friendly Famous Lovers party.

Q To Noah Rhodes: Mock Con is over, you can
come home now.

Q I propose a compromise: Why don’t we all just
agree that Brett Kirwan is an Heroic Tool, like a
ﬁreman’s axe or something.

Q E—mail your Quick Hits and stories from Wash-
ington Break to phi@wlu.edu.

v

 

