AKBUSTED. Freshman Deniz Ergin, a Fitness Center employee, looks over the cubbie holes in the lobby of the Fi

Drink discrepancy
stirs up students

BY Jar; Broors AND Kurd WASS

“Libraries, Powell archives win award

  

  
  

Washington and Lee University’s Leybum Library
and the Lewis F. Powell Jr. Archives at W&L’s School of

‘Law have been honored as part of the 2003 Solinet Out-

standing Library Programs Award recently presented to
the Virtual Library of Virginia’s Virginia Heritage database.

The database — http://www.lib.virginia.edu/vhp/ —
is a collection of electronic guides describing the archives

Hand manuscripts in 15 of the most signiﬁcant repositories

in the Commonwealth ofV1rginia. Acomplete listing of the
database’s 1,600 electronic guides, or ﬁnding aids, is
searchable by keyword and by individual institution.
W&L’s Powell Archivist John Jacob, using encoded
archival description mark—up language, encoded and en-
tered in the Virginia Heritage database the guide to more
than one million pages of manuscript holdings in the
University’s archives of late U.S. Supreme Court Justice

yLPOWell, who earned bachelor and law degrees from Wash-

A

K

K

1.

ington and Lee in 1929 and 1931, respectively.

Alumnus donates 1867 diploma to W&L

On a tip from his law partner ten years ago, Arkansas
attorney Hayes McClerkin Jr. purchased an 1867 Wash-
ington College diploma. Robert E. Lee’s signature was
what appealed to the 1953 graduate of Washington and
Lee University, but as he learned more about his ﬁnd, it
became that much more valuable to him.

McClerkin conducted the purchase from a Charles-
ton, S .C., antiquities dealer through phone calls, faxes and
mail. When he saw the document for the ﬁrst time, he
discovered that in addition to President Lee’s signature,
the diploma also was signed by Judge John W.
Brockenbrough, who moved his Lexington Law School to
Washington College the year before. But that was just
the beginning of his discovery.

Excited by its historic signiﬁcance, McClerkin became
curious about Oliver P. Evans, the 1867 graduate of Wash-
ington College. He learned that Evans was an 1865 gradu-
ate of the Virginia Military Institute. While at VMI, Evans
participated in the storied Battle of New Market as the
regimental color bearer and went onto become a commis-
sion officer in the Confederate Army.

W
l Lexington

Weekly

 

Forecast

Today— PM Showers, 68/52

Tuesday— Mostly Cloudy, 72/59
Wednesday- Rain/ Thunder, 73/52
Thursday— Scattered Showers— 76/51
Friday— Scattered Showers, 74/52
Saturday— Scattered Thunderstorms, 75/54
Sunday— Scattered Showers— 75/55

 

PHI

 

JAN? 6 3. lﬂtﬁﬁul :J.a§’;V,,,.r,

v./Am 

MAY 2 .3 kiliﬂii

VouIMECVl,N0lV
MONDAY, MAY 19,2003

Tire student wire of Wellington and In Uirir/erriw time 7897 (D Ow/we at: plrz'.wlu.ea’u

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

The rumors are not true. Free drinks from the Coop
during exams will continue, despite chitchat that says

otherwise.

For many years, the Coop has served free bever-

 

mess Center during his work study shift Saturday afternoon.

_] EB Brooks / The Ring-tum Plii

ages to fuel Washington and Lee students through
exam periods. The tradition has become expected and
appreciated by all. However, recent rumors have sug-
gested that this practice may be coming to a close.
Students, faculty and employees of the University
have expressed concern that their evenings may be-
come more difﬁcult without the added octane caffeine
provides.

According to Dave McConnell, the Business Man-
ager for the Treasurer’s office, “free drinks, during exam
week, will continue.” He went on to say that he was
not aware of any ofﬁcial policy change regarding the
issue.

This is welcome news to students like Junior Brooks
Batcheller who saw the free drinks as “another beneﬁt of
going to a small liberal arts college.” He also said that

jigs Brrooxs / Tbe Ringtum Pbi
CRUNCH TIME. Kara Coen serves herself a drink in the Co-
op. Free drinks will remain available this exam period.

Administrators are not sure which policy will come
into effect next year when the Coop facilities will be moved
into a larger dining room in the new University Com-

   

“(the caffeine) is a nice boost.”

f;:.r‘

JOHNSON

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT orrmrous emror

Lisa Johnson, a Washington and
Lee freshman, probably isn’t some-
one you could pick out of the crowd.
You wouldn’t know by looking at this
probable pre-law undergraduate that
she’s also Specialist Lisa Johnson of
the Army Reserve, and that she is now
once again being called upon to serve
her country.

A 20-year old, Johnson was ini-
tially accepted to W&L in the Spring
of 2001, but had to defer admission
for a year due to her obligations to
the Army. She returned this year and
completed her first semester of W&L

&L frshm

ITIOIIS.

studies through Fall Term. In Janu-
ary, however, her Salem/Roanoke
based reserved unit was called
again to active duty, this time to man
Fort Eustis in Newport News, a
transportation center and home to
the U.S. Arrny’s Transportation
Corps, as well as logistics and trans-
portation training centers.

“I would rather be in school
right now, but I made a commitment
to the Army, and I must do my
job...” said ‘Johnson, a Mississippi
native. Her Reserve unit is slated
to complete their duty at Fort Eustis
in one year, but there’s always the
possibility that the Reserve will
choose to extend their terms of ser-
vice. “While I know our duty can
be extended, I certainly hope to be
back in class at W&L this time next
year,” said Johnson.

Johnson’s family has a long
history of military service. In addi-
tion to a younger brother who also
serves in the Army Reserve,
Johnson has a father who is anArrny
Vietnam Veteran, an older brother
who is an Army Desert Storm Vet-
eran, and two other older brothers
who served with the Navy.

Johnson had actually not ini-
tially intended to follow in the foot-
steps of her father and older broth-
ers by entering the service. “Even

an serves in army

though I was in the JROTC in high
school, I had no intentions of going
into the military,” said Johnson. “The
Army Reserve recruiter who came to
visit my younger brother was really
convincing. I saw the Army Reserve
as a great challenge, and a way to
earn money and pay for college.”

At Fort Eustis, Johnson’s duties
include helping legal matters on-base,
though she’s currently assigned to a
hospital transportation detail, mov-
ing patients from the base to various
hospitals throughout Virginia.

Johnson is still unsure of what
she’d like to do after college gradua-
tion, though she received training
from the Army Reserve as a paralegal
and is considering law as a long-tenn
career. Having only completed one
term at Washington and Lee, she also
has not yet decided on a major,
though she notes that the Philoso-
phy and English departments are
possibilities.

Her friends share her hope that
her active duty will conclude next
year, allowing her to return to
school. She’s already been
counted in as a resident for group
housing, but until next year, her
room will sit empty, its occupant in
service to the nation.

Washington and Lee News
Servies contributed to this report.

BY ]EB Brooxs
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Juvenile susected i fitness center thefts

Trust the Honor System. The ﬁt-
ness center cubbies may now be safer.
After at least four wallets were stolen
from the facility this term, a top sus-
pect has been identiﬁed.

Director of Security, Mike Young
said, “The perpetrator is a 17-year-old
juvenile who was recently released
from custody.” He had been serving
time for theﬁ.

The individual was not seen
stealing, but simply standing suspi-
ciously around the cubbies. He has
been accused only of trespassing. He
may no longer come onto the Wash-
ington and Lee campus. Young said

_ that the individual is the prime candi-
date in the ongoing investigation.

The thief, who has no relation to
the Washington and Lee community,
was identiﬁed on Thursday morning
by Nate Hoey, an Assistant Profes-
sor of Physical Education and the Di-
rector of the Fitness Center.

“(The thief) is not forthcoming
with a confession,” said Young.
Young also said that he did not an-
ticipate pressing any charges against
the juvenile because of his refusal to
admit guilt.

Young warned that, “people still
need to think about their valuables
(because) this isn’t Disney World.”
Young also asked that future theft be
reported to University Security as
soon as possible.

Challenge
to raise money
for charities

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
srrrr rnurer

Washington and Lee students can now help the
community just by working out.

Saturday, May 24, the Summit Health and Fitness
Center will be hosting the ﬁrst Fitness Challenge for Char-
ity. Kimberly Durden, Group Fitness Director at Summit,
and Abby Van Veen ’03 are heading up this ultimate test
of endurance, strength, and agility.

Durden approached Van Veen earlier this year about
starting this challenge. The personal trainers at Summit
had been involved with a similar program in which 300 in-
structors participated for charity and felt it would be a great
service outreach for the Washington and Lee community.

Durden said, “It will be a lot of fun. It’s a good way to
introduce the people of Summit to the people of Washing-
ton and Lee. It is a win-win situation for everyone in-
volved.” Members of the Summit Center will also be spon-
soring Washington and Lee teams.

The sororities, fraternities, athletic teams and other carn-
pus organizations have been invited to participate in the chal-
lenge. The faculty and administration are more than welcome
toformtearnsaswell. Tearnsconsistofﬁvemembersthatwill
compete in ﬁve different events. Each memberwill participate
in every event with the exception ofRPM, where the team will
choose one member to represent the group.

These events include: RPM, which essentially is 45
minutes of high energy studio cycling; Interval Step, 21
high intensity cardio workout using a step; Body Pump, a
weight liﬁing program; Cardio Kickboxing, an energetic
workout using kicks and punches; and Yoga, a program
designed to strengthen and stretch the whole body.

Food and drinks will be provided to those who par-
ticipate. Local businesses, such as Graden’s, PB&J, Purnp—
kinseeds, Sunday’s Child, and the Lexington Coﬁee Shop,
will be donating door prizes. Summit will also be giving
away free personal training sessions and t-shirts.

Van Veen commented, “It will be a good opportu-
nity for people to have fun, get ﬁt, spend time with friends
and to raise money for a good cause.” Each team raises
money for a different charity.

Some organizations that already have sponsors in-
clude Court Appointed Special Advocates, Habitat for
Humanity, Cystic Fibrosis, Mental Health Young Life,
RockbridgeArea Free Clinic, Rockbridge Area Recreational
Organization, Neuroblastoma, and a literacy campaign.

Van Veen also noted that all Washington and Lee
men are welcome to take part if they are up to the chal-
lenge. These ﬁtness classes are designed to challenge
even the strongest of the strong.

Ifyou are unable to participate in Saturday’s activities
and still want to make a difference for a charitable organiza-
tion, you can swipe a donation home in front of the co-op
all this week. Durden said that she would like for the Fit-
ness Challenge to become an annual event for the Wash-
ington and Lee Commmiity, so if you carmot make it this
year, start preparing for next year. For more information,
contact Kimberly Durden at kd den4 ahoo.co or
Abby Van Veen at vanve_en_a(a)wlu.edu.

 

 ,3-pm ». , .,,,
L§;' ‘lﬁrﬂl-r':§.&   l {

PAGE 2



Make a friend in town

Now that the Keydets have left town like
“rats” abandoning a sinking ship, Washington
and Lee students will have to look for other
friends around town. Naturally, those of us who
don’t get invited to catchily-named off-campus
houses and didn’t ﬁnd love on the dance floor
at Shipwrecked look to Lexington residents for
companioship. To help, The Ring-tum Phi be-
low offers a helpful guide to improving town/
gown relations.

0 Spend more time at the Mirage. Since
nearly every member of the class of 2004
has turned 21, the Palms is becoming dan-
gerously overcrowded and the Mirage offers
both overflow bar space and the opportunity
to meet new people. They might not be wear-
ing sunglasses and Croakies inside, but Mi-
rage patrons probably have some great sto-
ries to tell.

0 Stop tempting the locals by leaving valu-
ables unattended. The Honor System may ap-
ply to Washington and Lee students, but, alas,
its strictures do not extend to the non-General
denizens of MetroLex. From time to time, the
bubble that surrounds our bucolic campus pops
and reality intercedes. By not giving townies
the opportunity to steal, students can avoid dam-
aging relations with touchy headlines like the
one on the front page.

0 Rather than Randolph-Macon and Mary
Baldwin girls, invite an RCHS Wildcat to the
year’s remaining date functions. What better
way to make a friend than under the hot lights
at Hunan’s or partying the night away in the
Pavilion? Just think, if romance blossoms, you

new friends.

0 Patronize the local art galleries. Lexing-
ton boasts several dozen galleries and the owner
of each is no doubt aching for a customer. Be
the ﬁrst and make a friend.

0 Extend the speaking tradition into the
town. General Lee’s plan was to enhance cam-
pus civility and, with a little effort, W&L stu-
dents can soon be ﬁlling the air on Main and
Jefferson with friendly greetings and sunny
salutations.

0 Finally, demonstrate your solidarity by
updating your SUV’s windows with RCHS blue
pawprints window clings.

can meet her family and have six or seven other .

te of the Week

(W6€piI1g,S0bbiI1g,b1ubb€ring,CIYing)

~GeoffRogow, Virgin Islands Chair
while watching “Dawson’s Creek”



Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief KatieJ. Howell
Associate Editor Jeb G. Brooks
2nd Associate Editor Kyle Wass
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Sports Editor Erin E. Julius
Asst. Sports Editor Donny Banks
Photographers CodyGabbarid
Sreya Banerjee
Steven Marinos
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subrriissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defmi-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax.‘ (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wIu.edu
http://phi.wIu.edu

"Ii--iii RI:.\‘(.}~’If‘UNI Pi-ll

PINIONS

Killer D’s

In the pre-dawn hours of Sunday,
May 1 1, a renegade group of 51 Demo-
crats boarded a bus and slipped
through the northern border of Texas
to take refuge in the Holiday Inn of
Ardmore, Oklahoma. These Demo-
crats, members of the Texas House of
Representatives all, were protesting
a bill that would have redrawn the
state’s congressional districts. Only
in Texas. While this stunt may have
garnered national publicity, their child-
ish tantrum served as an emphatic
example of the potential tyranny of
the minority. .

This action occurred much to the
satisfaction of the media, whose lib-
eral tendencies labeled the deserters
as heroes standing up for a cause, not
as greedy sore losers who jeopardized
the stability of an entire state. Unfor-
tunately for them, the facts do not
match their vision of reality.

The Democrats and the media
whine that the Republican redistrict-
ing plan is a partisan gerrymander
designed to place Democratic Con-
gressmen in the unemployment line.
What the Democrats don’t tell you is
that the current map is based on a
1991 Democratic gerrymander, which
the non-partisan Almanac of Ameri-
can Politics called “the cleverest re-
districting plan of the 1990s.” In fact,
the Democrat’s plan is so biased, that,
even though more Texans voted for
Republicans in every election from
1994-2000, Republicans never won
more than 13 of the 30 seats. In 2002,
almost 58% of Texans voted for a Re-
publican, though they only won 15 of
the 32 seats.

Though the House was supposed
to redraw the boundaries in 2000, it was
led by Democrats at that time, and they
shirked their respon-
sibility. Now, the 2002
House wants to finish
the j ob, but the Demo-
crats, angry about
being in the minority and victims of
the sore—loser mentality in general,
would not allow it.

These Democrats, labeled the
Killer D’s by some and (more accu-
rately) the Chicken D’s by others,
chose to run instead of fight because
they knew there was no way they could

France-hating jus

The United States of America has been on good
terms with France for almost the entire 227 years that
the former nation was founded. Save for a brief inter-
ruption around the beginning of the 1800’s when the
two nations came close to war, Americans and French-
men have had a special link in their nations’ respective
histories. From the Marquis de Lafayette and the French
government giving invaluable assistance to the U.S.
break from England during the Revolutionary War to
U.S. generals and politicians paying back the favor
during World Wars I and II, the two nations have long

been close allies.

Yet the atmosphere of international relations in the
early twenty—first century is putting deﬁnite strains on
this traditional relationship. Many Americans view France
as a land of rude snobs and Anglo-Saxon haters, while

I Americans are viewed in France as lazy, uncultured, and

 

9 Q

 

Kevin Bailey

09

shut down Texas
6 A K

 

Yvonne Davis

Q

    

Daina Dukes

<1-It
Mdi

>l',O
ti:

Harold Dutton

 

8

 

David Farabee

Oil:

    

aul Moreno

-4+
<1"§

Qua
our

 

Inc Pickett

RIGHT ON!
IOHN HEATH ‘04 broken quorum—- de-

    

ON

    

Parick Rose Ridlal" R3YmUm1
Q 0 9
Q 9 Z
CARDS COURTESY WWW. tamgqo. org

ACE OF COWARDS. The Texas GOP made a deck of cards featuring the Democrats
who escaped to Ardmore, Oklahoma when confronted with a tough battle.

win. In the 2002 elections, the voters
of the state sent a majority of Republi-
cans—— 88 out of 150 total members——
to the State House. Still, under house
rules, a quorum of 100 members must
be present before any bills may be con-
sidered and voted upon.
Therefore, 51
Democrats— just
enough to ensure a

cided that they knew
better than both the majority of the
Texas House and the majority of the
Texas voters. Even though the vot-
ers sent a Republican majority to the
house, and even though that major-
ity decided that the voters of Texas
would be served by having more re-
flective Congressional districts,



   

crude. This is the result of cultural conﬂict between the

two, with the United States at the center of the ever—ex—
panding world homogenous culture with Hollywood,
Disney, the Top 40 and McDonalds at its
center, whereas France sees its own sto-
ried culture of ﬁne art threatened by the

United States.

The tension from this clash is in part
why U.S. citizens have viewed France with more contempt
than other nations who opposed the Iraq war, such as
Germany and Russia. The simmering disrespect between
the two nations only needed an outlet, and we are now

seeing the political venting.

Both sides have acted childishly and ridiculously.
The House of Representatives made the laughable attempt
to sanitize its menu, infamously calling French Fries “Free—
dom Fries,” and French Toast “Freedom Toast” in a move
that was reminiscent of the rampant anti—Gerrnanism that
prevailed during World War I (ever wonder why sauerkraut
is also known as “liberty cabbage?”) Yet the French lan-
guage pervades the English language to such an extent

    
   

 

“No work, but lots of fun.”
—Aditya Kamath ‘O6

 

“I thught Ias gonna o to

MoDERATE’s MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

the sort.

Goshen every day.”
-Sarah Murray ‘O6

 

-Philippe Bartholin ‘06

these headline-grabbing, pouting
Democrats decided to paralyze state
government instead of fight the good
ﬁght, even if it is a losing one.

This importance of this stunt is
not just the fact that the redistricting
bill will die, but, because of the unique
fact that the Texas legislature meets
for 140 days every two years, myriad
other bills— including the budget—
will likely die as well. Though some
have argued that the legislature
should only meet for two days every
140 years, the fact that the Texas leg-
islature is part—time makes the Demo-
crats’ genocide of much of the hard
work of the current session uncon-
scionable.

It’s a good thing these Democrats
weren’t ﬁghting at the Alamo.

t marita sp at

PHOTOCOLJRTESY  I‘

DIPLOMACYP Rep Bob Ney (R—Oliio) introduces “Freedom Fries.”

that it would be impossible to remove all French phrases.
The word “menu” itself is French, and shows how futile
and silly the whole affair was.

On the French side, there’s paranoia.

Jean-David Levitte, French ambassador
to the United States, recently delivered a
letter from the French government accus-
ing US. government officials of conducting a covert smear
campaign against France to turn U.S. popular opinion
against them. While the U.S. government has made no
secret of its frustration with Paris, it has done nothing of

The key to this whole situation is not to let paranoia
and resentment take over. France and America have been
storied allies and friends for far too long to let quibbling
issues such as these undermine the greater relationship.
Scott McClellan, White House Press Secretary, gave us
the correct sentiment when he said “. . .the United States
and France have been in marriage counseling since 2000,
that’s all. We are looking to the future.”

 

BREITT. KIRWAM
OPINIONS Fnrioi

EMAl1.'KlRWANB@W1lJ.EDl
MONDAY, MAY 19, 2003»

Morris a dud, Rev.
Sharpton wows

For those of you fortunate enough to attend the
Mock Con Spring Kickoff, you were in the midst of somex
real movers and shakers in the world of American politics.

The first speaker, Dick Morris, made his second
trip to W&L in the past four years to be the ﬁrst speaker
for the event. It was immediately evident why Morris is
a political advisor, and not a politician, himself. While”
Morris provided the audience with a dead-on analysis
of the Democratic presidential hopefuls, he is a hor-
rible speaker.

I am not saying that Morris gives a boring speech, l,
but if he would allow his insight to provide the obvi-
ous comedic value of what he has to say and lay off
the extremely lame
jokes, he would be :1 LEFT OF CENTER
far better orator. Be- '‘
fore anyone had NICK RAMSEY ‘03
even come up to the
microphone, Morris steps up and says, “I accept your
nomination.”

Furthermore, after the second speaker, the Rever-
end Al Sharpton ended his speech on a very poignant
note, Morris leaps up to say, “Hey Al. Why don’t we
go see if General Lee has turned over in his grave?”
These ﬁrst and last word tactics are merely immature)“
Morris seems to have a need to always be the center of
attention. This could be something better, but the man
truly has no charisma and a horrible sense of humor.

As for the Reverend Sharpton, I was utterly amazed‘,
at the insight and common sense that came out of his
mouth during his 35 minute speech. Sharpton started
by responding to Morris, who had put him on the spot
by saying he would say nothing about running as an
independent after losing the Democratic nomination?
He artfully declined to comment on that particular point.
However, I don’t think anyone in attendance expected
him to say, “Why yes, I’ll run as an independent ifl
lose the Democratic nomination.” K

Sharpton hit on some terribly relevant issues and
said simply what needed to be said. He truly took the
Bush administration to task on Iraqi policy. He reminded H
his listeners that Colin Powell went to the UN security
council stating Washington had intelligence that lo-
cated numerous sites of weapons of mass destruction
in Iraq.

But now the Bush administration is saying it will)‘
take time to locate these things. If Washington knew
where these weapons were before the war, it is obvious
that they should still be in the same place after the war.
The Iraqi army had no time to fight American troops
and move weapons once war had begun.

Moreover, The Washington Postreported this past
weekend that UN inspectors were leaving Iraq because
they have beenunable to find any?vveapons.’~ ‘ "

Sharpton went on to say, thai he, of course, is;
happy Saddam is out of power. This is a good‘ thing.
He doesn’t like terrorism and said, of course, no one
does. But Sharpton took this point in his speech to say
that this war was not given the spoils that were prom-
ised and has cost this already indebted country to cre-’
ate the biggest deficit in its history.

Sharpton took on the criminal justice system and
its mandatory sentences for minor drug offenders.
Meanwhile, he pointed out, CEOs who have robbed ,(
thousands of their life savings are walking free. I agree
with him that this is not justice.

The Reverend also noted that Lexington Police
could pull you over and know within a few minutes of
your entire driving history. Meanwhile, we are using*‘
voting machines that are ancient, unreliable, and irre-
sponsible to use to make such major decisions.

Sharpton spoke on many other issues, and I found
myself agreeing with him on every point. The only ﬂaw,
in his speech was the use of the word “reconfigurate,”
which isn’t actually a word. However, many of those I
later heard snickering about this are those that support
our President who once asked the question, “Is our
children learning?” )‘

But the fact remains that Al Sharpton, even with
his truly Democratic ideals and solid goals, will not win
the Democratic nomination. He is too closely associ-
ated in the minds of many Americans with the likes of
Jesse Jackson, who quite frankly, is about as effective
in advancing the plight of African Americans as Pat
Robertson is in advancing gay rights.

Moreover, many still associate Sharpton with his
past campaigns of civil disobedience and often dis--.
agreed with his goals and tactics in the past. But the
Reverend seems to have become a different man with
more palatable political ideas and tactics in his old age.

Sadly, I believe the third strike against him is his
race. While America does claim more and more to be a”
truly colorblind country, I’m not convinced that the
populace of this nation is ready to elect an African-
American president.

I do hope, however, that enough noise is created to ,,
force both Bush and the Democrat that wins the nomi-
nation to take a hard look at the issues Sharpton raises.

A.

8

in

,,

..It,S a tase” “Lemme ust say I’m pro- “Spring Term roks because ,,
Spring Term” pants are optional

-Lara Gibson, ‘O6

-Dennis Bailey, ‘O6

 

V

4

ICAII-IERINEC. GUY

AKlS&LlFEEDl'llOR
EMAIL-GUY<@wIIIEDu
MONDAY, MAY 19, 2003

  
 

 

'I'I:-Iflfi RING?  

RTS

 

LIFT

 

.New spa ‘cascades’ into Lex

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
ARTS 8: LIEE EDITOR

Tucked away behind construction just past the
bridge on Route 11 North lies a hidden gem. Cascades
Day Spa opened on April of this year, bringing Lexington
residents and W&L students countless opportunities

‘ for luxurious living in small town America.

A

«L

Owner Anne Munson said that the experience has
been “wonderful so far.” Munson, a resident of
Waynesboro, Virginia, has a Masters degree in Higher
Education and Administration from James Madison
University. This is her first business, and prior to the
opening of Cascades, she ran the esteemed Virginia
School of Massage. She worked at the School for a year
and a half before deciding to open her own spa.

She chose Lexington as the location for her spa as
a result of her husband’s long-standing interest in the
town. When the couple came to Lexington to look into
spa opportunities in the area, they learned that people
had been traveling to Charlottesville, Roanoke and the

I Homestead in Hot Springs, Va., in order to experience

spa offerings. In other words, Lexington was more than
ready for its own spa.

The focus of Cascades is on health, rather than
beauty, or as Munson says “beauty from the inside out.”
Instead of manicures, pedicures, and hair styling, the
offerings at Cascades focus on the body and skin. These
treatments include the standard massages and facials, as
well as many other body treatments. These treatments
include hand and foot exfoliating and a scalp and hair
treatment which is great for hair health as well as scalp
conditions and psoriasis. Other options include body
wraps, which are “great for skin health and detoxiﬁcation,”
said Munson. Interestingly, body wraps can also be quite
helpful for those who are trying to quit smoking, because

.,- they remove the nicotine from the body, thus decreasing
‘cravings. Also available is microderrnabrasion, which

serves as an alternative to glycolic peels, exfoliating dead

i skin cells with a quicker recovery rate. One particularly
 popular massage is the Melting Mineral Massage, which
_ is done with heated smooth stones.

Overall, these
offerings all promote overall physical and mental wellness

. and relaxation. When asked whether Cascades will ever

open a salon, Munson said, “it’s a possibility in the
future.” She has received mixed feedback on this issue,

- as some feel that Cascades is a “nice, peaceful place to
come to” as is, and will become too loud and energetic
.. with the addition of a salon.

The interior of Cascades is extraordinarily

, beautiful. Munson and her husband “designed the

layout on a piece of graph paper over a bottle of wine.”
The spa consists of several treatment rooms, a beautiful

IW&L Archaeolo 

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ASSISTANT ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

As you head past the Liberty Ruinstowand the Tennis Center
orthe Pavilion, you might have noticed a red farmhouse on your
right. Unbelcnownst to many, this nine room farmhouse, which
dates back to the nineteenth century and until recently, was used
forstoragearidfacultyhousingistlie Laboratory ofAnthropology.

After being given to the Anthropology Department in
1984 the farmhouse was redone, with the department adding
a computer lab, a dark room, a draﬁing table and screens to
dry artifacts. In addition, they created a small museum to
display some of the more interesting artifacts from theirvarious
digs such as excavated pottery from the six local potteries
that were located in the area during the 1800s. They are
currently in the process of adding a student lounge in the
hopes of encouraging students to spend more time there.

During spring term, the laboratory has become the
headquarters for Dr. Alison Bell’s Anthropology 3 77, Field
Techniques in Archaeology. Bell and James Hepner,
W&L’s staff archaeologist, instruct the students
excavating sites at the Longdale Mining Complex. The
Mining Company, which once owned over 200,000 acres of
land inthe area, started in the l820’s and was abandoned in
191 1. The 30 students in the archaeology class are focusing
on mining communities, looking at the yards of miners in three
separate communities and trying to answer questions about

' the miners’ daily lives such as how much food did the miners

0000 0.000 00,0 0.000 0_0‘0_90,0‘ 0,0 0,_,000._00.0 0_0\_0_‘0,_,0_0_0,0

and their families grow for themselves, how many of the items

 

 

  

 

    

JED BRO0KS/ the R-tum Phi
LUXURY: On of the Treatment Rooms at Cascades Day Spa

‘Tranquility Room,’ a ‘Wet Room,’ and a ‘Multipurpose
Room’ which is available for rent to organizations.
Munson states that the lovely and relaxing decor of
Cascades is “understated tropical.” Others have
described it as having a Madagascar inﬂuence or “very
feng shui.” Munson says that a common reaction of
people who first enter the spa is “I had no idea it was
going to be this nice.” Munson and her husband used
seven years of trade magazines for research and spent
six months shopping all over the state of Virginia.
Munson says that at Cascades, “the décor is part of
the experience,” and it should not be overwhelming to
the patrons.

Cascades has a staff of six massage therapists, an
esthetician and a herbalist/aromatherapist. All of these
individuals are extremely kind and accommodating, as
well as experienced. As more people take advantage of
the opportunities at Cascades, more staff personnel will
be hired. All of the current therapists are certiﬁed in
Virginia or are in the process of transferring their
certification to Virginia from other states.

The most popular treatments offered at Cascades
include the Melting Mineral Massage, the ‘Head to Toe
Harmony’ package (which consists of a facial, massage,
and hand and foot revitalization), and the Herbology
Total Body Smoother (which consists of combined
massage and total body exfoliation and has an effect
that lasts for 3 to 4 weeks). Each month, Cascades offers
a different special. In May, this is ‘Gifts for Moms, Dads,
and Grads,’ and June offers ‘Back to the Beach’.

Overall, Munson said that she is “thrilled that
everyone has been so welcoming,” and that her goal
now is to get them in for treatments. With the beautiful
and calming décor, the friendliness and experience of
the staff, and range and appeal of available treatments,
Cascades is sure to have a brilliant future.

3%

   

ists dig p fun

JEB BROOIS/ the Ring-tum Phi

L-LJ

PAGE 3

All you need is a pick-up

This article is not about a truck.
Nonetheless, there is one truck, namely
mine own, which deserves mention.
Recently, one of our school’s security
guards, Mel Davis, spotted my 1984
poop-brown Chevy S-1 0 Pickup in the
Lambda Chi parking lot. He decided
he had to have it. If you have enjoyed
a ride in my truck, or have even seen
the decrepit thing, please try to hide
your astonishment - Mr. Davis told me
that he’d buy it for a reasonable price,
but, unfortunately for both him and
myself, my dad has
refused to let me sell it.

force you to guard him close, and then
he’ll blow right past you for the easy
lay—in, He also has that uncanny knack
to hang in the air as long as possible
to force the ball into the bucket.

PHI KAP: Chris Carlson —
Though Gavin Kimball can be a
valuable ﬂoor leader, and Ed can be
lights—out from a distance, sophomore
Chris Carlson is the true stud. His
turn—around jumper in the paint is
crafty and almost always goes in, even
when you know its coming. Also,

Chris has mastered
the art of the no-

So, as I had always ABgOLUT FRATLORD jump 3—pointer,
suspected, the Poop , , , adding a deadly
Truck is inexorablytied TIM 5MITH  long range aspect
to my soul. to his game.

But, as I said, this article is not about
trucks. Far from it. This article is about
something so much more important.

Despite being of the D111 school
variety, our varsity sports get plenty of
publicity on campus. And when varsity
doesn’t cover something, intramurals
step in. But there is another underlying
athletic culture, one much more pure and
unmanageable, that lies beneath the
surface of the school’s recognizable
sports. It is another one of those unique
W&L elements that has become a
permanent ﬁxture in the daily lives of
many students.

At about 3:30 in the afternoon,
on just about every weekday, a
random collection of W&L guys get
together in the gym and play pick-up
basketball. The rules are simple. You
play to win, so you can play again.
Your sweat is rewarded with more
sweat. You run faster so you can keep
running against the next team. To
those who have never been a part of
this experience, it may not seem like
anything worth considering, but to
those involved, basketball becomes
life for an hour and a half.

It would be tough to describe the
phenomenon to those who have not
witnessed it. Instead, l’ll do my best
to pay tribute to those pick-up ball
All—Stars who represent their houses
and give it their all on the hardwood
(in no particular order):

KAPPA SIG: Bennett Moore —
Bennett’s versatility is only matched
by his effort on the ﬂoor. His height
makes him a valuable rebounder, but
his range from beyond the arc makes
guarding him a challenge. His post-
play is sketchy at times, but with his
clutch shooting, he’s bound to burn
you one way or the other.

PHI PSI: Todd Chatham — Todd is
anunrivaled offensive threat. He’ll jack
up the tre with enough accuracy to

PI PHI: Adam Heinauer — l’ve
seen him take over an entire game with
speed and pure talent. Probably the
best all—around threat on the ﬂoor.
Adam can control the tempo, sink the
three, and his penetration move is one
of the best the pick-up game has
seen. He may not be the tallest guy
on the ﬂoor, but he always plays like
he’s the best.

SAE: Jake McAlli§er-T he E-dawgs
boast a number of fonner varsity stars,
but Big Jake is the cream of the crop. He
may not run the ﬂoor like he did in his
youth, but Jake has all the post moves
and is guaranteed to get his share of
rebounds with his size. The frat boy
headband is another plus in his game.

SIGMACHI: Ryan Small—Th0ugh
the Sigmachees boast a number of
skilled pick-up ballers in the likes of

-Trotter and Droppers, Ryan Small is

really the best of the lot. Rest assured,
he’ll shoot from just about anywhere,
and he makes a high enough percentage
to make him a constant threat.

SIG EP: JustinAllegro - Intramural
Czar Mike Hoover is a recognizable
threat when he’s on the ﬂoor, but
Allegro can take over and dominate
game. He may not be the most athletic
player on the ﬂoor, but he has all the
intangibles, moves well without the ball,
and will hit the three—ball if you don’t
give him the respect he deserves.

FIJI: Ben Jones — Chris Caramore
might argue with this selection, but
Ben Jones has the intensity and skills
to control a game. When matched with
former pick-up baller Ryan Pace, they
were all but unstoppable. Now, Ben
plays solo, taking it to the rack with
reckless abandon and hitting the long
jumper when needed.

BETA: Evan J aysane—Darr-Along
with Todd Chatham, Evan is probably
the most unguardable player on the
ﬂoor. His baseline moves are ﬂawless.

He hits the 3 all the time. He can run
the point without error. If you ﬁnd
yourselves picking up teams, Evan is
a must—have, no questions asked.

KAPPA ALPHA: Will Cotter —
Another former Gennies Baller, Cotter
runs the point and leads a team with
experience and saavy. When his tre-
bomb is on ﬁre, the game might as
well be over. Look for him to make
the smart pass, take it in for the easy
lay—in, and play enough defense to
keep your team on top.

LAMBDA CHI: Tim Smith — No
stranger to se1f—gloriﬁcation, l’ll give
myself the nod for representative from
Lambda Chi. My jumper comes and
goes, and my dribbling skills are always
questionable, but my post—move arsenal
has expanded through the years, and
my sheer height helps with rebounding.
Newcomers Seth Jones and Brent
“Pops” Beshore are also valued
contributors to the pick-up level of play.

CHI PSI: Jeremy Kimball — Not
too many pick-up ballers ever stray
out of the Lodge. In this case, we’ll
give the nod to Jeremy Kimball. .He
can shoot the three, and there’s not
much more you can ask for.

SIGMANU: Dave Crowell—Dave
plays a strong all—around game. He
has enough height to challenge in the
post and claim his share of rebounds,
and his jumper is strong enough to
extend his offensive range and take
you away from the basket. He’ll set
good screens, crash the boards, and
do whatever needed to get the win.

PIKA: Kerry Kellogg — Though
he’s not as good in pick-up as he is in
3—on—3 with Hetterman and Ben—yo,
Kerry provides match-up problems
with his quickness. With his long-
distance shot often missing
everything entirely, he’s best as a
penetrator, taking it to the rack or
dishing off the easy pass.

PHI DELT: Billy DeBuys — Gone
are the Phi Delt pick-up glory days of
athletic god Will Postma and
downtown bomber Jack Arnold.
These days, the Phi Delts don’t play
as much ball as in years past, but of
those who play,.Billy isthe best. He ’s
fast as hell and plays a sound game.
He’s a ringer at Ultimate Frisbee too,
and to yours truly, that’s a bonus.

Pick—up basketball may not be the
center of the universe, but to those that
play, it makes life worth living for as long
as you’re on the ﬂoor. These 15 are
only the tip of the iceberg — come by the
gym every aﬁemoon at 3:30, and see
for yourself. It may be just another one
of those wonderful W&L traditions that
you didn’t even know exists.

     
   

,esale “store    

drelocicired in «tom:

.24 u  I

OOOOOIOOOOOOCO

THE BIG DIG: Gavin Molinelli andjess Taylor work in class.

they owned were bought locally and what was the quality of
the articles that they owned. Students excavate the yards of
the miners and bring the artifacts, which include combs, bottles
for medicine, buttons and bones, back to the Laboratory of
Anthropology in order to wash them, label them and enter
them into a Microsoft database. Everything they bring back
must be processed, and so generally for every one hour spent
in the ﬁeld they spend six to eight hours in the lab.

Dr. Bell said that she thinks that “the dig is an important
part of the archaeology/anthropology and sociology/
anthropology majors.” It not only allows the students time to
do actual ﬁeldwork but also allows them to take small artifacts
such as pieces of a bottle or a nail and see how the pieces ﬁt
together into a larger pattern. The boxes of artifacts contained
in the Laboratory of Anthropology are a testimony to the

daunting nature of this task.

     
 

 
 

  

King: ‘Danke schoen, Deutschland’

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

You may have thought, thanks to my wonderful weekly
articles, that Lexington has a plethora of sights to see within
close proximity to the campus of Washington and Lee. That it
does, but let me tell you about a place you should deﬁnitely not
miss out on. It may be a little farther than our trip to the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum, but Germany has a lot to offer. That’s
right, Deutschland. Who would’ve thought there was so much
to see within only a 9 hour ﬂight across the Atlantic Ocean?

I’ve now been in the city of Bayreuth in Franconia for a
month, and you would not be disappointed at what you
could see here. Edelweiss German Restaurant. . .eat your heart
out! Bratwurst, Sauerkraut, Wiener schnitzel —you name it.

Now, here are my recommendations for your own trip to
Germany. I’ve only seen Upper Franconia, but I hear that
Bavaria is beautiful. I’m waiting to depart on my 10 day trip
through Germany visiting this area. Highlights of my trip may
include the BMW Museum in Munich, Neuschwanstein (‘most
will recognize this from the fairytale castle at Walt Disney’s
Magical Kingdom), and Dackau Concentration Camp.

Germany isn’t completely stuck in the 80’s still, yet
Knight Rider and the A—team do come on TV regularly. The
Germans insist that they are not as obsessed with David
Hasselhoff as we believe. I’m not buying it. I realize it can
be difﬁcult to break out of the every day routine of W&L
life, but if you get the chance, hop the short ﬂight to Ger-
many. You won’t be disappointed. All in all, Germany gets
an amazing 5 out of 5 Tridents. And it is so close.

Don Tequila
Mariachi band night!

“La Tierra" from Greensboro

Wednesday May 28, 6-9 p.m.

Drink specials on
Margaritas and Beer

  

 

ERiN]UuLs
SPOKIS FDIIOR

F)\lAll:]UIlLlSE@WlD.E11l

nit RING-TUl\l Pitt

MONDAY, MAY 19, 2003

W&L football looking
for improvement next season

BY BARRETI‘ DAWS
SPORTS writer

Coming out ofa 5-5 season,
Generals’ football is looking for
improvement in next year’s team.
Sophomore Chris Caramore said
that the team “is willing to do
whatever it takes to have a win-
ning season next year”. There is
no question that the team has its
work cut out for it, graduating
eleven seniors, including All-
American running back Chris
Sullivan.

Despite the heavy losses,
junior defensive back Geoff
Rogow feels confident. “We
have seven of the eleven start-
ing defensive players coming
back next year so it should re-
main solid,” he said on the situa-
tion.

Twenty-two incoming fresh-
men will aid the returning play-
ers. Tracy Antonik, Hunter Baird,
Philip Cossich, James McDougall,
John Garland, David Graham, Brad
Minor, Bannon Thorpe, Colton
Ward, Chas Collins, Hunter
Dawkins, Robert Foster, Thomas
Grattan, Dan Hackett, William
Hatfield, Garrett LeRose, Ben
Long, Ryan Neff, Robert Rain,
Ryan Sullivan, Peter Weiss, and
Hunter Whitﬁeld, the brother of
current player Whit Whitﬁeld, will
all put on Generals uniforms next
year. Along with the new fresh-
men, Michael Lackett will be join-
ing the Generals as a sophomore
transfer.

“If the team is going to be
successful next year, the incom-
ing freshman will really have to
step up to the plate and play

hard,” freshman offensive line-
man Trey Allen commented.
The running seems to have been
a focus of the recruiting, with
freshman running back Wheeler
Sparks out for probably the en-
tire season with a torn ACL.
Overall, the team will add three
running backs, two freshmen
and the transfer, and a fullback
to the roster.

Next year should be suc-
cessful for the Generals. The re-
turning players seem ready to take
the ﬁeld in search of a winning sea-
son. “I am looking forward to next
season because we should have a
strong team,” said sophomore Wes
Kimmel.

Junior offensive lineman Mark
Muchmore shares his optimism in
looking toward the upcoming sea-
son. “I think that we can go as far
as we want if we push the limits
next year,” he said regarding his
perspective on the 2003 season.

The schedule for next
year has only four home games.
The ﬁrst will be on Saturday, Sept.
27 against Centre College, the sec-
ond on Saturday, Oct. 11 against
Catholic, the third on Saturday,
Nov. 1 against Bridgewater, and
the fourth on November 15th
against Greensboro College. Cer-
tainly, this home lineup will prove
difﬁcult. Bridgewater stands as
a perennial national powerhouse,
and two of the other teams,
Catholic and Centre, defeated the
Generals last season.

Nonetheless, with a solid
group of freshmen returning and
with a tough, determined mindset,
the Washington and Lee football
team should see a winning record.

Kappa Delta wins
intramural tourney this year

BY Mm CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS WRITER

Throughout the year many so-
rority members take part in an Intra-
mural competition. A variety of
sports are played in this “Sorority
Challenge”, the goal being that each
sorority garners enough members
for eligibility to play and to play com-
petitively.

Kappa started the Tournament
out strong in the fall with their Golf
victory; yet, lost their winning streak
fast when Theta conquered the Soc-
cer IM.

In the winter, Kappa Delta was
victorious in both Basketball and
The Turkey Trot, while Chi Omega
claimed their own title for swim-
ming.

Theta soon struck again, with
their victory in Volleyball. In the ﬁ-
nal event all ﬁve sororities were
blown away in bowling, won by law
students.

Soccer and Volleyball are the
most popular of the tournament
sports and there is lots of participa-
tion.

V The games are an opportunity
for athletic competition in a laid back
and “ftm” environment. Girls from
each sorority go to events to cheer
on their sisters.

’ The girls get a chance to inter-
act with friends in other sororities,
along with Law students that they
‘never would have meet without the
Intramural program.

_ Each sorority is responsible for
having an IM chair. There is also
and overall IM chair and a faculty
chair, Coach Carrﬁeld.

The overall chair is Kerry
Barrett. She feels that although many

girls are involved with the activi-
ties, “participation can be pretty low
at times.”

She remarked how each soror-
ity unfortunately misses at least
one of the games throughout the
year, most often due to lack of par-
ticipation on behalf of the mem-
bers.

She hopes everyone realizes
the amount of time and effort that
goes into each sport, “It can be
extremely frustrating to get refs,
gyms and ﬁelds reserved, equip-
ment, rules straightened out, and
so forth. to then have no one
show up. I try to avoid nights
that I know will be hard to get
participation, but I guess the girls
have things they would rather
do.”

With regard to advertising,
Kelly stated it was “difficult”. At
the beginning of the year the pro-
gram started with so many goals
and hopes yet, due to lack of par-
ticipation, those responsible be-
come “discouraged and frus-
trated.”

Despite minor setbacks, Barrett
and many enthusiastic sorority girls
show faith and excitement towards
next year ’s program.

The new head of Intramurals
will be Nancy Francis, the current
chair for Theta, who shows much
promise and dedication. She hopes
to add an additional sport such as
Frisbee, Kickball, or Badminton.
The idea is to ﬁnd a new sports
that interest a wide spectrum of
girls.

In sum, with only a few weeks
leﬁ of school the tournament has
ended and Kappa Delta has been
declared the winner.

Phi sports

: Just do it.

laInS1.000-$2.000
injuutlhoursl

     

Fmnrhiwliz claim an. filing quadctr. Get

   

iicallege l"|..tl’1dl3l‘S:l§iI_-i: :'r*.3d»:- Simple, $112» and Free.

foryaurﬁhadentﬁmup

 kxiikaéihg options. nitrate. No  No  Just 

with the pt-omms this mitt

Qc...e...mpm

Your rmna: for Cottage rmuimaing. E
888 -92 3 - 32 3 8 - www. ca.rn;:usttmdr.a.i 5-ar.com

PORTS

PAGE 4

Men’s intramural tournament

nearly over; Fiji,

Lambda Chi lead

Organization ‘ Golf Tennis Football
Fiji 78 95 87
Lambda Chi 81 90 87
Sigma Chi 84 81 87
Pi Phi 1 O0 87 75
PIKA 95 90 87
Kappa Sig 90 100 78
Sig Ep 87 84 81
Beta 0 81 90
Phi Kap 0 0 84
Chi Psi 0 81 78
Sigma Nu 0 78 75
KA 0 0 78
L a w 0 0 1 00
SAE 0 0 78
Phi Psi O 87 78
Phi Delt 0 O 95
Faculty 0 0 O
independents 0 0 0

Soccer Volleyball Squash Racquetball Basketball Bowling Swimming Wrestling T.T. Ultimate Total
78 87 90 95 95 66 95 100 100 87 1153
81 87 87 100 81 90 81 84 95 100 1144
84 87 100 90 87 87 84 95 90 87 1143
87 78 84 0 87 100 90 81 87 84 1040
87 90 84 0 84 78 78 78 0 90 941
90 87 87 0 84 84 0 75 O 87 862
81 95 0 0 90 75 75 75 0 81 824
87 90 0 87 90 81 0 87 0 87 780
90 1 00 87 0 84 72 87 90 0 84 778
78 78 0 0 84 75 72 ' 75 0 84 705
78 78 0 0 78 69 0 75 0 78 609
84 81 87 0 81 95 O 0 0 81 587
84 0 95 0 87 0 0 75 O 0 441
81 0 87 0 87 0 0 0 O 95 428
0 84 0 0 78 O 0 O 0 78 405
0 0 90 0 84 O 0 0 0 90 359
95 0 0 0 1 00 0 100 O 0 0 295
1 00 O 0 0 84 0 0 0 0 O 184

BY ERIN JULIUS
sports EDITOR

Fiji is currently leading the
Men’s Intramural Sports Tourna-
ment with a score of 1153. Mem-
bers from all of Washington and
Lee’s fraternities, a group of law stu-
dents, the faculty and a group of in-
dependents all participate in the
tournament.

Currently, Lambda Chi Alpha,
Sigma Chi, Pi Kappa Phi and Pi Kappa
Phi are following close behind Fiji.

Fiji has won the Wrestling
and Turkey Trot tournaments,
with Lambda Chi winning Rac-
quetball and Ultimate Frisbee.
Sigma Chi won squash, with Pi
Phi winning the golf and bowling
tournies.

Other highlights include Kappa
Sig winning tennis, Phi Kap winning
volleyball, the law students winning
football, the faculty winning basket-
ball and swimming and a group of in-
dependents winning soccer.

Currently, the intramural teams
are competing in a soﬁball touma-
ment.

Regarding the softball tourna-
ment, as for “our outstanding soft-
ball players,” said Chi Psi’s IM
Chair Mike Lee, “junior Andy
Lunsford’s power hitting has been
key to our offense. Junior Tom
Herbert and senior Jeff Meriggi
have been outstanding in the out-
ﬁeld.”

George Auerbach of Phi Psi, which
is currently 1-2 in the softball tourna-
ment, says that the sport is one of his
fraternity’s best and that, “Will
Hamilton is consistently one of our
best athletes in IM competition,” he
said.

As for softball tournament stand-

   

  

Snsv MAiuNos / Tb: Ring-tum P/It

ULTIMATE! Lambda Chi freshman Sethjones jumps up to catch the frisbee in a recent Ultimate Frisbee match.

ings, Phi Delt, Pi Phi and Fiji have the
strongest records of 2-0. KA and SAE
each have records of 1-1. Beta and
Lambda Chi each have 1-0 records. Chi
Psi is 0-2, Kappa Sig is 1-2, Phi Psi is 1-

2, PIKA is 0-1 and Sigma Snu is 0-3 in
the softball tournament.

The softball semiﬁnals will be
May 26 with the Championships be-
ing held on May 27.

Women’s tennis advances
in NCAA tourney, but finishes 2nd

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS warren

As the last W&L spring sports team
still competing, the wornen’s tennis team
has not disappointed After cruising past
their opponents in the ﬁrst two rormds of
theDivision1lINCAAto1miamentbywin-
ning 17 outofapossrble 18 matches, they
qualiﬁed to compete for anNCAA cham-
pionshipinRedlands,Califomialastweek

The Generals have been thoroughly
dominaﬁng throughout the season They
headed to California as the ODAC cham-
pionswitha22—1 overallrecordandanum-
ber2nationalrarildng.Orilytwiceallsea-
son have they lost more than two iridi-

vidual matches against an opponent The
GmeralsdominationoftheODACwasevi—
dent last Tuesday when the conference
released its conference all-stars. All seven
of the Generals
regular players re-
ceivedﬁrst-teamall-
ODACrecognition
In NCAA tennis
competitions, there
are six singles
matches and three
doubles matches
but ﬁve of the six
W&L single play-
ersalsocornpeteindoubles. SeniorErika
ProkowasnamedODACplayeroftheyear,

"'""' AGERMAN

 

whileheadcoach CindaRankinwasnarned
ODAC coach of the year.

W&L faced Pomona—Pitzer in a
quarterﬁnal match last Wednesday and
defeated them easily, 8-1. Every W&L
player earned at least one victory The win
placedtheGeneralsinlastThursday’s semi-
ﬁnal againstAmherst Once again, the Gen-
eralsbarelyhadtosweatina7-2 victory.

The win gave the Generals a school record V

24thwinandeamedthemaspotinFriday’s
national ﬁnal against top ranked Emory.
TheGeneralscnlylossoftheseasoncarne
at the hands of the Eagles who defeated
them 8-1 on March 30 inAtlanta. The two
teamshadfacedeachatotaloffointirries
intheNCAAtournarnentwithEmorywin-

 

On May 25, there will be an intra-
mural Ping Pong tournament. On Sun-
day, Farhan Mustafa of Lambda Chi
won the badmitten portion of the In-
tramural tournament.

ningeachtime,includingthe 1996ﬁnals.

Unfortunately, the Generals ﬁrstnational
championship eluded them, as they were
defeated 5-1 by the
Eagles. W&L’s
lonevictorycamein
ﬁrst doubles, as
Proko and sopho-
more Lindsey
Hagerrnan were
able to defeat their
Emory opponents.
While the team’s
seasoncomestoan
end, both Proko and Hagerman qualiﬁed
to compete in the Division III individual
singles and doubles tournaments

Massage Therapy by

(540) 264-0063

Kelly Harris, BA, CMT

 

Teaching techniques in S-T-R-E-S-S Management!
* Gift Certificates And Packages Avai!abIe*

 

 

