 

I
Napster Penn State Wm WM
9
0
~ strike download deal
BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN u‘ 3 IP:““SS ‘Sel"_‘t‘1:°’ Eff;
gressman amar mi sai ,

d STAFF WRHER legal online music marketplace,

on Novemhero, Penn state one that compensates artists
and Napster made a revolution— and Offers listeners high-qual-
ary agreement to provide a le— ity music, is what we all want to
gal way for students to down- See ﬂourish.”

‘ load music for free. Napster will According to his Press.re-
offer their premium service to lease, Congressman Howard
Penn State students at no cost. Bermall Said, “I hope Other uni-

The agreement allows students versities wrestling with ways to

‘ to download tethered music unclog their bandwidth will
from Napsteﬁs 500,000 music 1i- adopt the model pioneered by
brat-y, listeh to over40 radio sta_ Penn State. By providing their
tions, and access other pre- students with low-cost access
mium features for no cost. To to legal music, on the one hand,

I download music permanently and taking action to stop pirati-
in ordef to bum CDs or trans- cal activity on the other, univer-
fer music to a portable device, Sities can return their bandwidth
students pay 99 cents per song_ to the educational reasons for

The new program will be which it was created.”

“ offered beginning January 12, Many Penn State students,
2004, the first day of Penn are skeptical about the new
State’s spring semester, and will agreement-
primarily be offered to students Student Terry Rose, at

5 living in residence halls in Penn State’S College Park Said,
about a dozen of Penn state “The consensus here of the ma-
campuses_ The Penn State- jority Of students is that it l
Napster agreement is the first won’t work. It’s useless be- H l  i J OOK5 
of its kind and many universi- Cause We haVe t0 Pa)’ f0r it- Galatime! Thedininghallwas ﬁlled beyond capacityFr-idayeveningashundreds of students dancedthe night away at theMock Convention

' ties are researching similar pro— Napster Controls the type 0f Presidential Gala. This was amajor fundraiser for the Mock Convention, at $30 aticket. By most all accounts, the event was a great success
grarris to offer to their students. music that Will he ai/ailahle. W8 and everyone thoroughly enjoyed themselves as they danced to  times. Now students may look forward to the main event: the 2004
The hope is that these types of not freedom because We’re pay- MockDernocratic Convnentionto beheldjanuary 30 arid31. Organizersare hard at work tomakesurethatthespeakers and event are as much
mergers will aid in reducing il- ing for a limited SerViCe- We’re of asuccess asFriday’s festivities. See page 7 formorememorie.sofMoc/e Con. '

u 1ega1ﬁ1e sharing still going to use  '

! d O O t I 1 C O 1 I O
I I BY CAI-EY ANDERSON Williams, have all seen sharp increases in pla- Students handle the entire process from start blatant plagiarism will usually get a student a
o1>1N1oNs1~;D1'1‘oR giarism, but nationwide academic policy is so to finish, and professors have no power to pun— warning first, depending on the case, and a sus— _ - ‘_ -
confused on - ish the stu- pension after that. ’
Plagiarism, as understood by most of the this issue that dents (other , Qther schools hgve similar policies. Most

‘ English-speaking world, is the theft of other each college than through schools give their students at least one sec-
people’s ideas, words, and thoughts in writing, has a different the grade of 0nd chance, often citing a “lack of knowledge
speech, or otherwise. policy. the assign— of proper citation methods,” according to a

This concept is important to the entire aca— At Wash- merit in ques— study on the subject conducted by the Univer-
demic community, and especially so at Wash- ington and Lee, tion). sity of Indiana.

q ington and Lee, for plagiarism is considered an of course, pla- Amherst, on The schools that expel students on the first
Honor Violation by the current Executive Com- giarism of any the other offense tend to be schools with fewer students
mittee. Indeed, from reading those ominous kind is viewed hand, assigns and smaller campuses, and especially schools
posts the EC makes around campus on occa- as an Honor power for with strong honor systems or codes, such as
sion, most Honor Violations these days are pla- Violation to be p u n i s h i n g W&L or our neighbor, VMI.

‘ giai’ism'icluicd- Punishcd only Plaginfilcfs to Many worry that first offense expulsions may

But many professors and academic types by the Single its Dean of he unfair to students who are not aware ofproper

have different deﬁnitions of plagiarism. Some
feel that a student can be guilty of plagiarism
unintentionally, through failure to cite sources.
Some think that it can only happen when a stu-
dent consciously takes an idea from another. As

Sanction- ex-
pulsion. Even
failure to cite
can be viewed
as plagiarism,

~,R"WC§“1“l‘lllllPrH

7726 student voice of Washington and Lee University since I 897

M6 It
VoLUMECVlI,N0.Vlll
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

 
   

 

Student Con-
duct. Punish-
ment is effec-
tively left to

 

]EBBRO0KS/  UM HI

 

the discretion

citation methods, and thus may be intending to
credit the original holders of an idea, but fail to
do so unintentional. »

So far, the issue has not come up in‘.

the Executive Committee this year, as all

we currently look at lZl')6 iSSllB,  t0 cite pl'0p- as tllﬁ  . Of this Uﬂi-  expulsions have effectively been
oily constiiuics Plagiarism makes it al3uu- D°y°ui'_°WnW°i'lfl ldioicssofs aioundhhccouuuyhclleyctustasiudciu Vcrsity 0ffi' placed upon students who intentionally stole

‘ It’sanimportant issue to many colleges. The dantly clear canbegmltyofp1ag1ansmunmtent1ona1ly,throughfa1luretocitesources. cial, and pla- ideas, The policy becomes more closely
top three Liberal Arts colleges (according to the (even going so ' giarism can examined with every case nationwide, and
latest edition of U.S. News and World Report’s faras to publish an easy plagiarism reference avail- get you anything from a warning to expulsion, Washington and Lee may soon have to examine,
college rankings), Amherst, Swarthmore, and able to students) what it considers plagiarism. though Amherst’s penalty guidelines say that and perhaps revise, its own piagiarisrn po1icy_

' ' ' ' ' w d h d ff '

EC revising Constitution, La stu ent spear ea s e ort to bring
. r 0 o .

. law students voice complaints Vagina Monologues to Washington and Lee
BY ERIN JULIUS cem about the fact that the en- - - i - -
EDITOR are Sudemhbody dude, hue Proceeds from the play Wl/l be given to the local women s shelter, Project Horizon

a Say lll W 0 ascell to C ‘ BY COURTNEY BERRY the eneral area of Lexin ton. The chari has et to be de-

I Tonight there is to be an roles or: Vice President and Sec- STAFFWRHEB cidefl. In 2003, thousandgs of V-Day benetfit evehts executed
Il_5l:f1°l:ltl;:1C°m?lne1e l_1’Il:? llt)‘ l°tal_ll’_'h d t f th _ _ worldwide generated $4 million in proceeds.

a _ aw Sc 00 ’ 5 al 0 . 6 ll Vall age 0 e As ihc inch of the inusiachc sociciy PicPai'c to shayc it till ' Jillian DiLaura, a Washington and Lee Law student, is
lllal Wlll°_h ‘was held fl” fiurreui succession of °fﬁ°°r5 Off, the Washington and l-c_c community Will ‘continuc to misc spearheading this year’s production and encourages anyone

[ lllldl:gl:“lS_ll_lmetC?11mn]:lglElasl ls tllgriltthlstethlil-l°l;ft llllll  awnrcncss of Violcncc against Womcn and girls by Picpaiing who is interested to get involved with the local production.
wee ' evlslolls 0 '3 °ll' all 6 a 6 0 lcel W e for The Vagina Monologucss Which Will he Pcifoimcd on cam‘ She insists that a greater range of people are needed than
Sllllllloll Wele lllscllssell lll last alll°lllbe_l°ftll°_EC' Cllllelltly’ Pus in Fchi'u3—i'y- _ _ . . only those who possess a ﬂair for the dramatic. People who
week S opell follllll’ wlllcll was lll°_EC ls looklllg a_t several l-nst Wcdncsday an organizational meetmg Was hold in do not wish to act onstage can assist with publicity, ticket

I allelldell °“l¥ by members ofllle °Ptl°llS' _0ll° W°l_lld lllvolve 3 the Commons to start PTcPuiing for thc 2004 sales, costumes and anything else needed be-

.’ Ca.I1’1[})Eil(i grieddig. tH 1 H gh scflgool-wideti=.lect’ii(l>n to ﬁlidhe primarily student-run production of The Va- 7beWMmwbgu5 hind_rhe_soenes_ DiLanra also said that you
. Sl en eel] u es 0 lee-l SP0 W l 6’ allo cl gin“ Monologues Thc ihcmc for this ycans . . . ’ need not be a female to help the cause.
attributes theupoor attendance would have the election be production, to be held in mid-February, is the aplay 0I‘1g1I13.llyWI‘1ttCI1 by V_Day materialized in 1993 in response to
lo’ _C°lllllllllll°all°ll golllg °ll held Wlllllll the EC and lllell Vagina W3ii'ioTs- Eve Ensier is art of a crippling statistics of women being violated
behind the scenes " d th f t h another election to fill the - - ' ’ P

u “ u , all 6 ac 3Vc _ Real-life testimonials from ‘women around lobal movement to end and sought to become a force against that vio-
that’. a 1;” Of tlhe C0tI:lfieH1tSVXere SP0t oﬁthe ileprfeffentalglive who the WOI'ld Will be read  Washington and L66 g 1 di d - lcnce. Over the years, V.Day has grown expo-
°°u‘u‘g ’°’“ aw -3 en 5- ‘n°"c “P ° ° ‘ms P- students in the Elrod Commons Theater. Expe- vio ence recte at Women nentially and has‘ become somewhat of phe-

Justin Arnold, the  s I uevisions of the EC Con— rionoos of hundreds of women from 40 Conn- and girls uomeudu, enabling the organization to pro_
second-year law representative stitutioii are taking place be- mes comprise the script, Vida funding to hundreds of programs amuu d

I ggiccs that ihc (liaw siudcnis caugctsh 1:  icctc£iitlyddi’scoy(; The Vagina Monologues, a play originally the world that strive to protect women.

ave ellplesse collcellls’ ale 3 l S oll a C ’ Sal Wfiiicn hy l3Ve 13115161‘, is Part of 3 global moycmcnt to end As Washington and Lee performs The Vagina Monologues
Many Students have ex‘ Hughes‘ The Conutltltlllon violence directed at WOIIICH and girls.  global IIIOVCITICIII February  and 12, thg Same Stories  be resounding from a
pressed Concerns to me about mentlons the Publlcatlons COIIICS in the f0I'l'Il Of V-Day, 311 international organization  Masai village in Kgnya and a Lakota resgfvation in South D3.

,, thc succcssion of ofiiccis cl‘ Board, for cxamplcv Which is the singular goal of ending violence against women and girls. kota_

i lllel Vla e'lllall ol pelS°llally’” llow llle Mellla Boald‘ l996 “V0 ycais ago the Washington and Lcc community Pro- The Vagina Warriors will relate experiences of war rapes
lle Sald’ “l tlllllk llle Sllccessloll was the last tlllle levlslolls duccd 3 hcncfii Pciioimancc of The Vagina Monologues and female genital mutilation and cigarette burns in female skin. ,
of officers issue has made law were made; the Constitution raised pI'OCCCdS benefiting PI'0jCCt HOfiZOﬂ, LCXiIlgtOI1lS bat- Enslef says that the \,/aging Warriors are through  be-
students more Cuiluus about says nothing about how ouch tered women’s shelter. ing victims. She says that they realized no one is coming to

5 the Ellecllllve C°lllmlttee“‘lell' ll must be leVlSell' This ycais the goal is to misc $oa000- A Pcfccntagc of the rescue them so they have to rescue themselves.

Pcct that law students who at— profits will be given to the national V-Day campaign to benefit The Vagina Monologues is one action they are taking to
tend the forum Will cXPicss con‘ See EC: Page 2 the Missing Women of Juarez charity and the rest will stay in reach their goat

 

I ': ‘ L‘.  .:-;
 rmupwrtv
.: ‘M 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

 ﬂ-H; ‘Y? W‘ .

Teacher spoke about experiences with poverty, homeless

BY KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Katie Murphy, a high school
teacher at Archbishop ‘Carroll
High School in Washington,
D.C., spoke Monday night in the
Science Center about her experi-
ences with poverty, hunger and
homelessness. Murphy volun-
teers and worls with students at
the high school.

She was joined in spealdng
by one of her current students,
Tian Younger, who spoke of per-

sonal experiences. Murphy was
invited to speak by Marinda
Harrell ’04 of the Shepherd Pro-
gram, whom she taught along
with Monea Hendricks ’»04,
Zakiyah Bradford ’04, and Kisha
Barnes ’04.

Murphy first discussed her
Social Justice class, which edu-
cates and involves high school
juniors with the homeless. The
first semester is dedicated en-
tirely to discussing poverty, hun-
ger, and homelessness.

Murphy then read excerpts
from the first assignment she

 

W&L’s DuPont Gallery
Displays Exhibit by Mary Page Evans

. An exhibit by landscape artist Mary Page Evans, “Painting
from Nature,” is now on display in Washington and Lee
University’s duPont Gallery.

The exhibit is on display until rnid-December. It is free and
open to the public.

Page, a Virginia native, is a graduate of Hollins University
and the Art Student League of Corcoran Art School. A veteran of
more than 25 solo exhibitions in various places on the East Coast,
her works are included in 22 selected public collections and have
been included in many selected group exhibitions around the
world.

Art history plays an important role in her work, with Page
having studied Cezanne and Hans Hoffman to advance her style
of letting “color determine the structure and create the space.”

W&L student Miriam Rodgers is off .

to compete for a Rhodes Scholarship

Senior Miriam Rodgers is heading down to the Rhodes
Scholarship state competition in South Carolina Tuesday and
Wednesday, November 18 and 19.

Approximately 600 students nationwide will be competing for
a Rhodes. If Rodgers advances, she will go to the District 111
competition in Washington, D.C. Friday and Saturday, November
21 and 22. Over that weekend, four students will win the elite
post-graduate prize and receive full tuition and living stipends at
Oxford University.

Rodgers is. a philosophy-economics major who attended
Oxford University last year without the aid of an American
exchange program and received straight A’s. She also won the top
writing prize in philosophy. Her father, Paul Rodgers, graduated
from Washington and Lee law.

Miriam Rodgers wants to study law as well, although she
plans to spend her time as an ethicist and Professor countering
the popular notions of “Pragmatic Philosophy.”

“ I’m thrilled to have the opportunity.” she said.

Washington and Lee Professor James Mahon wrote Rodgers
a recommendation. “In her essays, she also argued with a deter-
mination and a precision that one does not normally ﬁnd in under-

' graduate essays, and this from a freshman. . .It is fair to say that

she raised the level of class discussion to new heights.”

Traveller Committee Announces
Trial Period of changes in its driving routine

Traveller will change its driving routine between Thanksgiving
break and Christmas break.

The Traveller Committee will launch the two week trial period as
an attempt to make the current system more effective.

Any student can call the Traveller number at 458-8900 seven
nights a week from 10pm until 2am and a car will be dispatched to the
student’s location.

Vans traveling on the set route will still run on Wednesday,
Friday, and Saturday nights. I

The Traveller committee hopes this period will show better use
its resources.

The committee’s primary goal is to best serve students’ needs.
Please contact any of its members with any questions, concerns, or
suggestions. ~

November 3. 2003

Summary of Executive Committee
Honor Activity for the 2003/2004
Academic Year

Investigations: 4

Withdrawls in the face of a Closed Hearing: 0

gives her class: to answer vari-
ous questions on social and
political views. Murphy has

found that per- ning of her
ceptions of s p e e c h .
homelessness The biggest thing in Murphy then
are very differ- h - - - showed a slide
ent after stu- C _angmgsoClety1S show consist- :
dents have changing yourself. Educate ing of statis-
SP°“‘ 3 yea’ in yourself, educate others ti“ ’ °f
her class. homelessness

“Not one and pictures of
student has ever said homeless people.

homelessness is an injustice at
the beginning of the year,”
Murphy stated.

Her convictions of
homelessness as a social injus-
tice were evident from the begin-

Using various statistics,
she described the rising rate of
homeless children, domestic

violence resulting in
homelessness, and other mis-
conceptions of the average
homeless person.

After Murphy spoke, Tian
Younger began to tell of her per-
sonal experiences with
homelessness and how
Murphy’s class has educated
her.

“Homelessness affects di-
verse groups of people, work-
ing farnilies, people like you and
me,” said Younger. Murphy re-
quires all of her students to vol-
unteer in soup kitchens and read

aloud some of their responses
to their experiences.

All of the students had en-
tirely different opinions than
those of the beginning of the year:
guilt, shame, compassion, and un-
derstanding were among those

« most evident by the end of the

Yeaﬁ .

Murphy ended her speech
with a few possible solutions to
homelessness.

“The biggest thing in chang-
ing society is changing yourself.
Educate yourself, educate oth-
ers,” Murphy encouraged.

Campaign promotes literacy

 hand. Patrick  is a student working with the Campaign.

among ockbrie County children

ANNIE ROCHFORT
LITERACY CAMPAIGN PUBLICIST

The students of Washington and Lee University are proud to
announce the kickoff of the fourth annual Literacy Campaign, spon-
sored by Nabors Service League. The campaign rims from January
19 to March 12, and its purpose is to promote literacy arid social
justice in Rockbridge County.

The campaign began because of survey results indicating that
17 percemt of adults in Rockbridge County have reading skills at the
lowest literacy level.

The hope is that this program will excite children about reading
and encourage students to take literacy seriously. Ideally, the cam-
paign will raise the literacy rate in Rockbridge County in the future.
The Literacy Campaign consists of several programs aimed toward
involving children in reading. Abook drive to collect children’s books,

' in order to distribute a new book to every kindergartener in the

Rockbridge Area, will rim throughout the campaign.

Through the Adopt—A-Classroom program W&L students will
visit kindergarten through fifth—grade classrooms once a week dur-
ing the seven weeks of the campaign. Each week students, will present
a new literary activity, such as poetry writing, Dr. Seuss, and,
Shakespeare for kids. The Best SeHer will offer Saturdays at the Li-
brary, also run by W&L students. This will involve story time, crafts,
and lunch for children.

The Washington and Lee students participating in the campaign
hope that the W&L community will become as involved as possible.
Volunteer Recruitment will take place from December 1 to the 5 out-
side the Commons. If you are interested in helping, please stop by!
If you have any questions please feel free to contact Kyle Meehan,
meehane @ wlu.edu or Steve Martinenza, martinenzas @ wlu.edu.

Hidden Heroes: Tina Su works
to introduce freshmen to college

Su actively involved in campus service programs such as Project Outreach, Nabors Service League

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Tina Su, a junior Cheiriistry
major, contributes in many ways
to the Washington and Lee com-
munity. Her friends describe her
as a great listener and an excel-
lent friend. “She is encouraging,
supportive, structured, straight-
forward, focused, and most im-
portantly, a great cook,” stated
Paige Thomas, a close friend of
Su.

She is actively involved in
Project Outreach. Su went on the
Roanoke trip her freshman year,
was a group leader her sopho-
more year, and co—coordinated
the trip this year. “I think that it
is important to share with fresh-
men the values gained from
Project Outreach. The majority
of freshmen are not exposed to
poverty in their everyday lives,”
said Su. She went on to add that
it is a great way to segue fresh-
men into college life instead of
thrusting them into the Washing-
ton and Lee environment. Her
friends feel that she is very pas-
sionate and devoted to Project
Outreach. Su will be coordinat-
ing the trip again next year.

As a sophomore, she served
as the Nabors Service League
contact for environment and ani-
mals. Freshman year she volun-
teered at the Rockbridge County
animal shelter. Su got involved
with the animal shelter because
of her passion for animals, espe-

cially cats. She has two, Oliver
and Ginger, at home in Maryland.
Last year she organized a suc-
cessful clean up of Goshen and
the surrounding area.

One of the most cherished
aspects of Washington and Lee
for Su is the honor system. The
trust and accountability inherent
in the Honor System parallels
Su’s own code of conduct. Her
honesty provides an example of
what all Washington and Lee stu-
dents should strive to achieve.

“'Ihe Honor System can go
outside academics into all facets
of your life,” said Su. One of the
characteristics that Tina’s friends
admire most is her honesty.

“She is a champion and hero
of the Honor System,” said Tho-
mas.

Su is serving in her third year
as a member of the Student Re-
cruitrnent Committee. She gives
weekly tours for the University.

She is also a three year member _

of the Big Buddy mentoring pro-
gram. She has been a big buddy
to the same girl all three years.
They meet weekly to work on
homework or to play games such
as checkers. "

“I feel like I can make a dif-
ference once I leave Washington
and Lee,” stated Su on her future
career. While she is undecided
on her profession, she is leaning
toward research.

She describes herself as
honest, dependable, and efﬁcient
in all she does.

Hidden Hero. Smiling Tina Su is a behind-the-scenes hero.

Tina Su is truly a hidden
hero. She is the type of leader
that does not want to be in the
spotlight. Her organization and

structural skills make her a natu-
ral leader and crucial player he-
hind the scenes at Washington
and Lee.

Closed Hearings: 2
Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 0
Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 2

Student Body Hearings: 0

EC from page 1

Major issues that the EC is considering include reworking the
succession of officers and writing into the Constitution a minimum
allocation for Mock Convention every year.

“While the number of law students who have approached me
has not been overwhelming, it has been enough to reiterate that
something needs to be changed,” said Frederick Heiser, the tliird—
year law representative.

The forum at the law school is expected to be better-attended
than last weeks. “Many law students may have already expressed

their concerns to their EC representatives and are conﬁdent that their

views have already been brought up through them. Concerns could ‘

be anything from succession of officers to the number of EC meet-
ings held in the law school,” said Heiser.

Arnold said that law students try to be active in campus govem—
ment because, “is important to many law students because they par-
ticipated in student government in college. To others, student gov-
ernment is important because it impacts our lives as law students in
ways such as funding of the Student Bar Association,” he said.

I

8

 

 

 I MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

 )lTORlAL

Commons needs more artwork

The John W. Elrod University
Commons has become a jungle. It
seems that every time students darken
its halls there is another tree growing
in the building. Most importantly,
there is no consistency. Around one
corner there may be a bush, around
another a tree, why not have only
bushes or only trees?

The Commons higher-ups should
invest in art instead of plants. While
trees are wonderful, good for the en-
vironment and produce oxygen for the
students, art encourages thought.

By not placing art, Washington and
Lee University is missing an" impor-
tant element of education. Sure, the
painting of the late President Elrod is
beautiful, but there is more wall space
than just above the fireplace.

The many superb art shows currently
held in the Tucker Media Center, Wil-
liams School of Commerce and
DuPont Hall could attract many more
viewers if presented in the Commons.

The arts community of Lexington
and Rockbridge County is vibrant.
We should celebrate the incredible
talent to be offered by our region.
Why can’t Washington and Lee more
actively support all that the area has
to offer?

And, if the County’s artist com-
munity is not enough, why not bor-
row paintings from University Collec-
tions? There are hundreds of valu-
able paintings from years past gath-
ering dust in storage facilities across
campus.

Leaders, we implore you to take
advantage of what we have to offer.
The arts will be easily overlooked until
you put them on our walls. Please
give us something to look at.

Oh, and while your at it, could you
put up some clocks in the building.
Thanks in advance, and let us know
if we can help hang them up.

 

' CtrEYAmE1sON
OPINIODBEDIIOR
mm m

 

Onwednesday,November5,IﬂewtoMiamiandsawtheoceanfortheﬁrsttime.
Ok, soIreallywasr1’tgoingfortliewhitesandybeachesorthesmelloffreshocean
air,though,IwilladmitthatwepaidhomagetodearMotherNature.Rather,thethree
rmdergraduate co-chairs of the GayStraightAlliance (Steve Martinenza, 
and myself) were going to one of the largest gay activist conferences in the nation.
'I‘he “Creating Clmnge” Conference is sponsored annually by the National Gay and
Lesbian Task Force, NGL'I'F, and its location changes from year to year. This year it
happenedtobeins1mnyMiamiBeach, soRian, Steve, andlpackedoursuitcases
with swimming suits, sunscreen, and ﬂip—ﬂops and headed down south for four days.
Wehopedtoleamhowtobetterourleadershipabilitiesandtoleavewithfreshideas
andinspira1ionsfortheGSA.WhileIcouldtellyouaboutallthestrategiesand
techniqueslleamedtocreatechangeandopenadialogue,thisisbyfarnotthemost
important1essonIleamedwhi1einlVIiami.Indeed,Ileamedavery
valuable lesson, one that I wasn’t expecting, and one that will
deﬁnitely stick with me for a very long time.
ToattendtheCreat1'ngChangeConferenoeonedoesnot
have to be GLBTQTSI—that is gay, lesbian, bisexual,
transgendered, queer, two spirited, orintersexedlnfact, whenyoubuytickets online
they askyour sexuality and “heterosexual” is an option. So, I clicked the box next to
heterosexual,andheadeddowntoMiami.IfeltlikeIknewwhatIwasgettinginto-
IexpectedthatRianandIwouldbeamongthefew straightpeoplethere.
Ithoughtlwasprepared Iwasn’t. .
Insociety, youarebasically st1aighttillprovengay—noonereallybothersto
think/‘maybethispersonisgay”whenﬂ1eyareinurxh1cedtosomeone.Gaypeople
areforwdto“comeout”andtellusthattheyaregay. Sowhat,right?Whatditference
doesitrnake?InMiami,IleamedﬁrsthandwhatadifferenceiImakes.
Atﬂ1eCreaﬁngChangeConference,Amencansocietyreverseditself.Onﬂ1e
ﬁrst day, the co-chairs attended the Youth Institute—a gathering of young gay
activistsﬁomacrossthenationItbecamepainﬁﬂlyobviousthat,here,youweregay
till proven straight. People made all encompassing statements, such as “We are all
members of the gay community,” or “As queer youth. .  Every time it was said, it
gratedonme. Iknew, consciously, thattheyweren’t doingitonpurpose andthat
theydidn’tmeananythingbadbyit,yetitstil1botheredme.Asthedayprogressed,
I slowly became a little braver. As another comment went by I slowly raised my hand
Beforethemoderatorsnoﬁcedmeﬂ1ough,IqrncklyprﬂledmyhanddownMy

  
 

stomach was inknots andlwas nervous beyond belief. “Whatwillthesepeople

think?”isaIlIkeptsayingtomyself. 'Ihefear of anegativereaction waspushingme
farther into my straight closet. By day’s end I had ﬁnallyworked up the nave to
“come out”

As we discussed the good and the bad parts of the conference, I shyly
and nervously raised my hand. I was so nervous that I was shaking, stuttering,
and completely ﬂushed. My stomach was doing ﬂip—ﬂops and my hands were
clammy. But I succeeded and I “came out.” Afterl ﬁnished speaking, a series of
comments were lashed out towards me. Most of them started with “I’m of-
fended by...” or “You wouldn’t understand. .  or “It’s a cultural thing...” It
became obvious that several of these people did not appreciate my presence.
As the verbal assault continued, I became so ﬂustered that I couldn’t even

CHANGE YOUR MIND there; people would “know” I was straight. I had never felt the annoy-

KEILYJO LARSEN ‘05

PAGE 3

Straight student ‘comes out’ in Miami

construct a plausible defense for myself. I just kept repeating, “But that isn’t
what I meant,” over and over. After the Institute ended, I stood waiting for the
elevator with Steve. I was so upset and ﬂustered that I attached myself to his
side, hoping that I could just blend in and that no one would talk to me. I wanted
to nm back into my straight closet and slam the door tightly behind me.

After the Youth Institute, the conference continued. Reactions persisted to my
heterosexuality—some good and some bad In coming out in one of my later sessions,
a genﬂemanlookedatmeand said, “Ah, honey, that’s ok! We need you too!”Myheart
wasputateaselncontrast, duringaworkshopRianattended, awomangotupandleft
their small group after Rian’s “coming out” Through the good, the bad, and the ugly,
Ileamedalotastheweekendprogressed Neverhadlbeenforcedtodefendmy
sexuality. Never had I been subjugated to a negative reaction simply for being straight
I always took for granted the fact that I didn’t have to put myself out

inggrateofabroadstatementthatpretendedtoincludeme,yetthatI
knewdidn’t.
WhileinlVIiami,webeﬁiendedtlneesmdentsfromtheUnivasityof
Northe.mColorado.AsIbegar1exp]ainingrnyfeelings,oneofthem,Mike,lookedatme,
smiled and said, “Kelly Jo, welcometo the ﬁrstnineteen years of my life.” 'lhat’s when it
dawnedonme:tho11gh,Iwillrreverkr1owwhatit’sreaIlyliketobe gayinAmaicansociety,
Ido,however;knowwlmtitsliketobestraightinagaysociety.MoreovenIknowwhatits
liketoberejectedanddeﬁnedsimplybyyoursexuality.It’snotfunAta]lIwasanervous
wreckformostoftheconfamce—thesheerernotionofhavingto“oomeout,”tobeing
fmeedmamstamlyﬂnnkabmnmysexuahtyandwonyabomwlmtmsaymasdraimng.
Icensoredmyconnnentsbasedontheidea,“W1lltheyﬁgrneoutI’mstraightifIsaythis?
Willtheyhaternebecauseofit‘?” '
Bytteendoftheconferencelwasreadytogetbacktostraightsocietyandnothave
to worry anymore. But you know what? It’s a lot harder for gay people to leave straight
societythanitwasformetoleavegay society. Societyatlargeissubconsciously
heterosexistHowmanytimeshaveweaskedaguyifhehasagirlfriend?Doeshehave
awife?Doweeverthinktoaskifhehasapartner?Howmanytimesdowe say,“Gonna
hookupwithahotchicktoniglrt?”toourmalefriends orviceversawithourfernale
ﬁia1ds?Icansayﬁomexpaiemeﬂ1aLifmm1e,ﬂiesemmmentsgrateon&eemoums
tothepointofbeingraw.'Iheyalsoreinforceabeliefthatadiﬂ°erentsexualityiswrong.At
ﬂnﬁeamtgﬂiangewnfaencelpmmyselfmmysnaightclosabecauselwasscmed
ofanegativereaction.Aftrafourdays,Icouldra1eatandnotwony anymore.

Gaypeopkmn’tﬂeesuaightsocietyvmyeasil)gmshmﬂdn’twenmkesuaight‘

societyalittlemorehospitable?Nexttimeyou’reabouttoaskyourbestﬁiendifheorshe
isgoingwbehooldngup,dnnkabmnﬂeimphcaﬁmsofymnstatements.Talkabom
hornosex11alityinapositivelight—-tmstrne,itwasmucheasiertocorneoutiflthoughtthe
personwasgoingtobeokwiththefactthatlwas straight. Takehateful andderogatory
words outofyourvocabulary; theyonlytearpeople down.

* Societyreversedisnotanerqieriencemostpeoplecaneverhave—Ineverexpected
it,butI’llneverforgetit.WhileImightnotknowwhatitsliketobegay,InowhaveabetIer
understandingofwhatitmightbelike. Ididn’ter1joybeingdeﬁnedbymy sexualityor
always lnving to defend my sexuality. It was deﬁnitely an emotional drain but not
somethinglwillforgetanytimesoon

Universal human rights ignored by U.S. ,

  

. s “We’re not pulling out until the
job is done, period.”

‘ ~PresidentGeorgeW. Bush

   

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Production iilssistants

Copy Editors
. Sarah Beth Campbell
Aubrey Miner
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Editorial Director Katie J. Howell
Business Manager
Circulation Director Hem-y G1-imbau

Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy '

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a
member of The Publications Board, but is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed

to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.rn Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.

Paul Seifert

The Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions ’

for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
Ihe Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginio 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

IRONYP Eleanor Roosevelt holds a copy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but does the U.S. really comply with these rights?

As much as I love America, I sometimes won-
der what we’re doing at times because it makes no
sense. We have refused to ratify the United Na-
tions Declaration on Human.Rights (DHR) yet we
speak vehemently on protecting human rights and
even crusade on behalf of human rights. Why are
we so set against penning our name to the most
important document on human rights, a document
we inspired?

One reason is that we believe that our Consti-
tution and Bill of Rights sufficiently provide for the
well-being of our people. So, if the two are equal in
provisions, then there should be 
no problem in signing. We would
just be afﬁrming what we already
believe, right? And herein lies the
problem. We do not believe in the
provisions of the DHR because we don’t believe in

 

. human rights as a country. The Bill of Rights guar-

antees Americans political rights, not human rights.
The two are different. Political rights protect citi-
zens from encroachment by the government, such
as the right to be free from governmental invasion
of privacy, governmental abridgment of free speech,
and so forth. Human rights, however, guarantee
citizens a standard of human dignity. Let me illus-
trate these rights with some excerpts from the DHR.

Section 1 of Article 23 guarantees the right to
work: Everyone has the right to work, to free choice
of employment, to just and favourable conditions
of work and to protection against unemployment.
Section 1 of Article 25 guarantees people a stan-
dard of living: Everyone has the right to a stan-
dard of living adequate for the health and well-
being of himself and of his family, including food,
clothing, housing and medical care and neces-
sary social services, and the right to security in
the event of unemployment, sickness, disability,
widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in
circumstances beyond his control. In essence, hu-

TRAIN OF THOUGHT
TRANK1M‘05

man rights are basic economic and social rights.
Looking at just these two guarantees of the DHR, it
is no wonder that America refused to sign the dec-
laration.

It seems that we don’t really believe in provid-
ing social welfare to citizens. We don’t believe in
equal results, only equal oppornmity. I used to be
a believer of equal oppornmity until I began to see
that there is not a standard of equal opportrmity in
America because it means that we must all start at
the same line. But it’s common knowledge that we
all start at different points in the social and eco-
nomic race. The problem here is
that we think that it is a choice be-
tween one or the other, and I am
asserting that it is not a choice be-
cause you cannot have equal op-
portunity without equal results of some capacity.
Everyone must have the same basic starting points
to in order to actually have the same opportlmities.
That means that everyone should be able to have a
job if they want one, everyone should have a house,
food, healthcare— all the rights enumerated in the
DHR in Articles 23-26. It is only after people have
their basic human rights that they can utilize their
political rights.

Our forefathers who drafted the Constitution
didn’t have to consider basic human rights as a
necessity in the Bill of Rights because they already
possessed these necessities. It never occurred to
them that people deserved to be fed, because they
had long tables full of food at mealtimes. It never
occurred to them that people should have homes
because they lived in mansions. It never occurred
to them that people should have clothes to wear
because they had tailors who made their entire ward-
robes. It just never occurred to them, andnow we
are in the same place. It is not occurring to us ei-
ther.

Most of you who are reading this article do

/should be the

not have to concern yourselves with acquiring
enough food to eat, a warm shelter to ward of
the elements, or enough clothes to appear pre-
sentable. Your basic necessities are provided
for and then some. But that is not the case for
everyone living in this country. There are people
who struggle to be fed, clothed, and housed,
and no one should have to struggle to acquire
those needs. It is an injustice for them and a
shame for us. How can we as Americans claim
that we are passionate about human rights when
we deny millions of people every year those
rights? There are millions of homeless people
and millions of hungry months. When we pass
a homeless man or woman on the street, do we
ever fume with anger at the injustice of his or
her condition? I doubt it. If we don’t ignore them
and cast the situation off as one of those things
that happen, we are fuming with annoyance and
disgust. I am guilty of the same state of mind
and now I am forced to reconsider after an eye-
opening lecture last Monday on homelessness.
Homelessness isn’t a deserved condition be-
cause of laziness or poor luck. It is an injustice
that should not happen in our country. We
last country to have
homelessness. It is a mockery of our high finan-
cial standing in the world that we have
homelessness. '

This is a serious issue, and I urge you to con-
sider it seriously. Nothing will change if we don’t
start being serious. We are the lucky people who
have the political power to effect change and rep-
resent those who cannot yet utilize their political
rights. It is our obligation as active citizens of this
nation. But most importantly, it is our obligation as
human beings in this world.

To view the DHR in its entirety, please go to
http://www. un. org/Overview/rights. html. '

 

 

  

PAGE 4

  Oifﬁ<i1“f)Ns

Saddam is not point
of operations in Iraq

President Bush announced last
Friday that we, the United States of
America, would continue our military
presence in Iraq until Saddam
Hussein is in U.S. custody, or killed.
This is entirely the wrong attitude to
take toward Iraq, and I, for one, feel a
bit let down by the President. What
this effectively
means is that Presi-
dent Bush thinks
that once Saddam
has been taken
down, we don’t need to be there any-
more.

This comes after a week where
President Bush has been backing off
from Iraq and trying to speed up the
passage of power to the Iraqi people.
The Iraqi people are not yet ready,
their Governing Council reported to
U.S. authorities that they are. hope-
lessly deadlocked on the creation of
a new Iraqi Constitution. The essen-
tial problem is the conﬂict between
the Shi’ite majority and the elite
Sunni minority from which Saddam
Hussein came.

If we find Saddam Hussein tomor-
row, and the U.S. leaves, Iraq will not
be any better than when we began
our invasion. They will descend,
likely, into civil war again, and most
likely another military “president”
will be put into office. Then, thou-
sands will have died for nothing.

Don’t get me wrong, Saddam
Hussein is a criminal, and should be
found. But that is not the reason
that the United States invaded Iraq,
at least, that’s not the reason that we
were given. We were told that the
purpose of the invasion was to find
and destroy weapons of mass de-
struction (none of which have been
found) and to transform Iraq into a
viable democracy with working infra-
structure, services, and a basic ap-
preciation of human rights. So far,
thousands of Iraqis and hundreds of
U.K.-U.S. coalition forces have per-
ished towards that end.

Simply removing Saddam
Hussein and his family will not suf-
fice to turn Iraq into the country that
President Bush wanted it to be.
Throwing $87.5 billion of taxpayer

 

money into a country and then leav-
ing it to a divided, chaotic country
where more people have died since
the end of the “war” than during it
is neither wise fiscal nor foreign
policy. Staying when public opin-
ion is behind you and leaving when
it starts to turn against you is sim-
ply evil politics, the
kind that’s been so
reviled by Americans
in recent year. If
President Bush
leaves, it will show
that he is more concerned with
continuing to live in the White
House rather than with the well-be-
ing of the American or Iraqi
people.

Withdrawing now simply be-
cause popular support for the oc-
cupation is dropping would be
wrong. It would be an abandon-
ment of the Iraqi people, and it
would be a hypocritical letdown
of the ideals for which President
Bush professed to be invading
Iraq. We must continue to stay in
Iraq now that we are there. We
must continue our search for the
purported weapons of mass de-
struction, and we must stay in the
country until it has been rebuilt,
as our government has promised
us.

Even though President Bush
has said that we will not be in Iraq
“for years and years,” that may be
what is necessary. And if it is,
the President would do better to
rethink that pledge. We’re in now,
and we shouldn’t leave until
we’ve accomplished our mission.

When will that mission be ac-
complished? When insurgents are
no longer killing dozens per week.
When the Iraqi people have more
reverence for a stable and fair
government rather than their own
regional and religious factiona1-
ism. When their economy has
been given a fair head start.
When, in effect, we are no longer
needed. But for right now, and for
most of the foreseeable future, be-
cause of our invasion, we will be
needed.

   

‘MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003 ’

oward of the Week

./-Sm .irr'egu‘ia';.' feature of the I€irag~rz.tm Phi

Ex-Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore

BY OPINIONS EDITOR CALEY ANDERSON

 

Chief Justice Roy Moore was sworn in as the Chief
Justice of the State of Alabama for one reason and one
reason alone— to act as a fair and impartial judge of the law
of the State and the Federal Government. Over the past few
months, he has made it absolutely clear that he doesn’t care
at all about this duty. Instead, he has chosen to use the
position to which he was appointed as a political and reli-
gious campaign. For those not familiar with the story, here’s
a brief overview-

The Ten Commandments have long been a focal point
of the church-state separation debate in America. But usu-
ally, the issue is whether posting the Christian religious
laws in public schools (funded by the government) is a
violation of the separation of church and state mandated

_ by the Constitution (as interpreted by the Supreme Court).

The answer to that question has already been resolved, of
course; the Ten Commandments as rules for student con-
duct, our government says, do not belong in public schools,
as they are a point of favoritism towards Judeo-Christian
religion. But what Mr. Moore wanted to do went far be-
yond any standard of common sense or American rights
and law. In the Alabama Supreme Court, Moore ordered a
huge monument to the Ten Commandments placed in the
central lobby. The First Amendment to the United States
Constitution says that “Congress shall make no law re-
specting an establishment of religion.” A testament to
Judeo-Christian religion in a very important government
building shows pretty clearly that the government favors
one religion over another. We’ve gone over this a thou-
sand times, but if we put up the Ten Commandments, let’s
also put up the Eight Pillars of Islam, or the Eightfold Path
of Buddhism. It’s only fair under American law.

Roy Moore has had this problem before. When he was
in Circuit Court, he had another Ten Commandments monu-
ment in his co1n1room. He became known as the “Ten Com-
man nts” judge, and his appointment to the Supreme
Court was largely a political move. When he tried to place
his monument in the rotunda of the Alabama Supreme Court,

 

a Federal court ordered it removed, and rightly so, as it was
a blatant violation of the separation of church and state. He
refused, showing that he, the primary judicial ofﬁcial in the
State of Alabama, had no respect for the law. So, an ethics
committee kicked him off the bench, and he is currently un-
der review by the Alabama Bar Association, so he may pos-
sibly lose the right to practice law.

Yet, despite all of this, he doesn’t care. He didn’t do
this because of his great belief in the Ten Commandments
and American law, if that were true, he would keep his en-
thusiasm for his religion in his own life instead of forcing it
on all the citizens of Alabama as a whole. But polls show
that 77% of Alabama citizens support Moore in his deci-
sion. Thus, this whole ﬁasco was clearly a political move.
“I will be making an announcement next week which could
alter the course of this country,” Moore declared last
Thursday. He obviously intends to run for public oﬂice.
And he will very likely win, simply because most Alabamians
can’t tell the difference between “the Ten Commandments
are a good set of rules for personal life” and “the Ten Com-
mandments should be United States Government Public
Policy.”

Moore is a coward because he is a traitor to the ideals of
the Constitution. He refuses to face the main issue, namely,
that his placement of the monument is a direct violation of
the Constitution. Instead, he merely insists that it’s his right
to “acknowledge god,” though he’s doing far more than
acknowleding, and is instead forcing a particular interpreta-
tion of god onto the American people as a whole. He is a
traitor to basic American ideals, as he’s using the spin from
this horrible activity to create public support (erroneous
public support, but public support nonetheless). Just be-
cause a lot of people support an issue does not make it Con-
stitutional It’s individuals like this who are responsible for
the degradation of America into a apathetic voter wasteland,
and it’s individuals like this that cause the rest of the world
to laugh at us. He may well soon be in ofﬁce, and if he makes
it, it will be yet another‘ dark day for American democracy.

Democrats block judicial nominees for political reasons

Last Wednesday the Senate Republicans called a 30 hour anti-
filibuster session to argue against Democrats blocking several of
President Bush’s judicial nominees. The Republicans’ purpose in
scheduling the session was to rally Americans against the Demo-
crats, who blocked the President's nominees for ideological reasons.
The truth of the matter is that the Democrats are desperate to hold
power. Let’s examine the opposition to Missis-  
sippi judge Charles Pickering. The Democrats ac- _ ; »  :
cuse Pickering of supporting segregation as a 
young man and pushing anti—abortion and anti- ' ‘
voting rights as a state lawmaker. They continue
to ﬁlibuster his conﬁrmation even when their arguments have been
shown to have no merit.

Charles Pickering testiﬁed against the Ku Klux Klan in Missis-
sippi in l967,_ advocated voting rights for African-Americans in the
1960’s, and led integration efforts in the 1970’s and 1980’s. His record
demonstrates that the allegations against him are entirely false. An-
other example of Democratic mistreatment is evident in the case of
Miguel Estrada. Estrada sought to become the ﬁrst Hispanic citizen
on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Estrada, a
former clerk to Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy and an

 
 

SncE ON LIFE

assistant solicitor general dining the Clinton administration, is a partner
in awashington law ﬁrm. His credentials are so impressive that he was
widely talked about as a sine Supreme Court nominee. Yet, Democrats
persisted in ﬁlibustering his conﬁrmation vote. Estrada waited so long
to be conﬁrmed that he eventually withdrew his name from consider-
ation. In a shameless display of bravado, Senator Edward Kennedy
called Estrada’s withdrawal “a victory for the Constitu-
tion.” A third example of Democratic exploitation is the
case of Janice Rogers Brown. Brown, a California Su-
preme Court Justice, is currently seeking a conﬁrmation
totheU.S. Court ofAppeals forthe District of Columbia.
However, her appointment seems unlikely to occur because Demo-
crats continue to ﬁlibuster her conﬁrmation vote. The comic value of
this matter lies in the fact that some of Brown’s opposition is from the
NAACP and the Congressional Black Caucus — a liberal group com-
prised of African-American congressmen. These groups pride them-
selves on the advancement of African-Americans in society, yet they
oppose anAfrican-American judicial nominee, Brown, simply because
she is conservative. It’s just a tad bit ironic that these groups continue
to oppose Brown considering she is the daughter of an Aﬁican—Ameri-
cansharecmpperandagreatnomineetosupporttheircause.

Serve

W/ant real-World sales, marketing
and management experience?

The Nabors
Service League is

always

volunteers to

Phi Business is currently looking for new staff

Call Paul Seifert at 458-4060 or
phi-business@wlu.e.du A

help witha
variety of worthy

causes

Contact the

NSL at
nsl@wlu.edu

KYCHILD

WWW.BOSSpCITY.COM
617-436-5719

CD

 

   

ll ‘hi s, Irma (risk, 60 free!
» New iriisg On-(umpus Reps

(uliforgrnqs discounts

 

3-3-00-64$ $8-$9 /‘ w'v:w.mtmv—ci.xcm

The behavior of the Democrats in the matter ofBush’s  nomi-
nees is disgraceful, and their true purpose is grossly evident. As the
American populace continues to become more moderately conservative
as a whole, liberal Democrats constanﬂy feel threatened that their ideals
willnotbe supported Theyarelosingpowertoenactlegislationand,
consequently, seeking another method to push their agendas. Their solu-
tion is to have judges legislate from the bench. A judge’s tenure lasts for
life, and the more liberal judges, the more outlets of support for liberal
ideals.

While the majority of American citizens criticize the outcome of judi-
cial rulings on issues such as the display of the Ten Commandments,
prayer in school, and the word “God” in the Pledge of Allegiance, these
issues continue to be riﬂed upon favorably for the Democrats. Why is this
the case? The answeris simple. In every instance, liberal judges creatively
interpreted the Constitution. Had conservative judges presided over these
cases, the rulings would have been different This example sheds light on
the underhanded tactics the liberal Democrats are using to push their
agendas. Instead of mustering support for theirradical ideals and passing
legislation, they resort to ﬁlibustering the conﬁrmation vote of any
nominee who doesn’t have an extremist interpretation of the Constitution.
This tactic is simply unacceptable.

   
    

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! l-800-234-7007
endlesssummertourscom

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003



Democrats have a slim shot in 2004

Gomz AND FORGO'l'I’F_N?

The Democrats are hurting. The most recent gubernato-
rial elections did not favor their party, as Republicans picked
up numerous seats, even in long—time Democratic strongholds
like Mississippi. Republicans also recently won gubernato-
rial posts in ultra-liberal Massachusetts and left-of-center
Maryland, while liberal New York City is currently in its sec-
ond generation of Republican mayors. Every single statewide
office in Texas is now held by a Republican, marking the end
of what used to be a Democratic Texas. And in California, that
bastion of left-wing politics, Republican Arnold
Schwarzenegger was elected last month by a comfortable mar-
gin in a stunning election that ousted a sitting Democratic
governor through an almost unprecedented recall vote.

President Bush is also currently looking quite strong. De-
spite criticisms of his record on the economy
and his success in prosecuting the war on ter-
ror, polls are consistently showing that Presi-
dent Bush stands a good to very good chance
of being elected. Furthermore, Republicans are
expected to increase their majority in the House, and retain
their majority in the Senate, possibly picking up a few addi-
tional seats. Do the Democrats stand a chance of beating

  

., Prcs,ideI1,t ,Bush?,.. ,

Despite what some Bush supporters might say, the an-
swer is yes. President Bush’s approval ratings are down from
a year ago, although recent trends show them improving. Most
analysts agree that how voters perceive their economic sta-
tus to be in November of 2004 will strongly inﬂuence which
way they vote. Third quarter economic data showed very
strong growth, and interest rates continue to remain at his-
toric lows. If this trend continues, then Bush’s chancesrcon—
tinue to improve. The biggest problem for the Democrats, then,
is which of their presidential candidates would stand the best
chance of beating a relatively strong Bush. Who will the Demo-
crats select?

With the exception of Howard Dean, none of the current
Democratic frontrunners show serious opposition to Bush’s
policies. Gephardt, Lieberman, and Kerry all voted to support
the war in Iraq, and they are all relatively moderate Demo-
crats, particularly Lieberman. Why would anyone, particu-
larly a right-of—center political independent, choose one of

IR1ErTr-"\iVTrER?1>61hE
IMRAN NAEEMUILAH ‘05

PHOTO oouansror udaiazgaaiu

Current Democratic front runner Wesley Clark may see his campaign ﬁzzle out in the near future.

these candidates over the incumbent Bush? Clark, a supposed
frontrunner, has been bogged down by an increasingly disor-
ganized campaign and mixed stances on key issues,~including
the war on Iraq. It’s only a matter of time before Clark exits the
race as a has—been. Edwards’ campaign, once characterized as
that of a young Southern star in the mold of Bill Clinton, has
been falteri_ng. He lacks significant support outside of the
Southeast, and his shady fundraising tactics may yet blow up
onhim. As for Sharpton, Kucinich, and Braun, they’re all trail-
ing at the bottom of the polls despite being the most liberal
and anti-Bush of all the candidates. The worst part is that
they are hardly bad politicians; Sharpton, for all his short-
comings, is an excellent politician, and Kucinich and Braun
have both held national office before.

All of this points to a very difficult position
for the Democrats. Their most left-wing can-
didates are barely registering in the polls, and
their most centrist candidates lack any real
reason to elect them over President Bush.

. Their ideal candidate, therefore, lies somewhere in between.

It looks like Howard Dean may yet be their best bet. Even
Dean, though, faces considerable challenges, not theleast
of which is his blunt personality. He_i_s,prone to saying rather
stupid things which he later has to retract or further explain. The
recent Confederate ﬂag debacle is an excellent example of this; al-
though appealing to rural voters who put Confederate flag bumper
stickers on their pickup trucks is hardly morally wrong, nor is it poor
strategy, Dean’s opponents seized this as an opportunity to paint him

* as a bigot (which he almost certainly is not). In the eyes of moderate to

liberal suburban voters in the North, who will constitute a sizeable
percentage of the electorate, these sorts of accusations do not bode
well for him. ,

What will Dean say or do next? And what will those moderate to
liberal suburban voters think of Dean’s consistent NRA endorsements?
Those are hardly bad things, but they’re not what liberal Democrats
want, either. Voters may yet decide that Dean is not as liberal as he
claims to be. This leaves the Democrats fresh out of a candidate who
ﬁts in between nutty radicalism and boring centrism. It appears as
though the Democrats’ only lifeboat will be a certain junior senator
from New York; until and if such senatorfdecides to run, however, it
looks like the Democrats are facing a bleak situation in 2004.

Treat yourself to a

.. ~'i-’2°’ea{ an :~e.9{ﬁ"om/

.‘9’t"'«}r/(tag-itrsr’

u Iuxwious fur! body message by

W

 

PAGE ,5‘

Westerner discovers
southern society quirks

I am exactly 2,423 miles from
my home in Boise, Idaho (yes,
that’s where potatoes come from,
and no, it’s not next to Illinois). It
is a place where we wear jeans and
a t—shirt to Boise State football
games, played on our famous blue

»turf. It’s a place where no one

cares which fraternity you are in,
much less which one your grand-
father was in when
he went to college
in 1933. And most
of all, it’s a place 5
where dressing up
like old confeder-
ate soldiers in order to reenact a
battle that took place nearly 150
years ago simply does not sound
entertaining (not to mention, that
if you did reenact the Battle of
Cold Harbor, you would probably
be placed in the county lock up
overnight).

My mom is from the South,
so when I decided that’W&L was
the place for me, she took it upon
herself to prepare me for south-
ern life. She explained why
southemers don’t call the Civil
War the Civil War; instead it’s
called the War Between the States.
She forced me to eat grits, and she
explained what sweet tea is. De-
spite all of her hard work, she
could not prepare me for the ex-
treme culture shock I was about
to encounter when I arrived on
campus.

It all started at the ﬁrst home
football game. There was a “tail-
gate,” but there weren’t any tail-
gates. I don’t know about the rest
of the nation, but in Idaho a tail-
gate implies people barbequeing
on an actual tailgate. Besides the
football players, I was the only guy
who wasn’t wearing a tie to the
game. And even more oddly, the
girls were all wearing pearls, high
heels, and dresses. They were

  

.d¥°SS°<1moIef0III1aHy.I11anII1Y high. -

schoolpromdate. Inldaho, we wear
jeans and a t-shirt to the games, and
that goes for the girls too!

And what, may I ask, is with
the girls down here? They not
only know the rules of football but
they follow it religiously. When-
ever I want to know who won the
Alabama, Auburn, or Ole Miss
game, I just go ﬁnd a southern girl.
They can tell me not only what
the score was, but additionally,
they can tell me how the defen-
sive coordinator screwed up by
switching to a prevent defense
with two minutes remaining, rather
than staying in the cover three like
he should have. It’s awesome! In

PoTATo”Mﬂ%

Idaho, most of our girls couldn’t
even differentiate the offense from
the defense.

And, boy, do southemers
have manners. The first time I
heard my roommate, from Ala-
bama, talk to his parents on the
phone, I thought he was in
trouble. All he said was, “Yes,
ma’ am. No, sir. Yes,
ma’am.”Ihave
now learned

that is part of

 the normal
“”"”’”"‘““"‘ speech pat-
tern. If he

called a woman ma’am in Idaho,
he might get slapped. In the west
ma’am is equivalent to old woman.

For the past month, people
have been complaining about the
extreme cold. Many W&L stu-
dents act like they are freezing in
55 degree weather. One of my fa-
vorite activities is to walk around
campus and guess where people are
from by how many layers they are
wearing. If someone is wearing two
sweatshirts andaskicoatin55 de-
gree weather, I know that they are
fromAlabama_ While the weather is
not always cold in Idaho (we often
get 100 degree plus temperatures in
the summer), 55 degrees is deﬁnitely
not worthy ofbreaking out the North
Face jacket.

I love the south. It’s the only
place where seeing a Confederate
ﬂag hanging in a donn room is not
only acceptable, but is probable. It’s
a place where Bear Bryant is god,
and the Yankees (both the baseball
team and the northemers) are devils.
It’s a place where nobody has heard
of Keystone beer, but Southern Com-

pfortisasabundantaswater. It’sa .

place where you can go to Waﬂle
House at three in the moming to get
a triple order of chunked hash
browns, and learn the hard way that
they only take cash (we don’t have
Waﬂle Houses in the west).

Washington and Lee is where
a kid from Idaho, who seemingly
has nothing in common with any-
one from the south, can be able to
ﬁt ir1. While I don’t (and do not
plan to) hang a Confederate ﬂag in
my room, I have found that my
southern friends and their ways are
rubbing off on me. I wear ties to
football games, hate the Yankees,
and have begun to say y’ all (some-
thing for which my friends back in
Idaho will undoubtedly make fun
of me). W&L has showed me the
southern side of life, and opened
my eyes to a completely different
culture which will be part of me for
the rest of my life.

I’ * .-
.‘Ze/61» .97(1/wax, .c.a..r. (£3757
(.~7('r{i/('91! ..»1%maqqa é“/.3(‘I‘f¢-'35‘!

5‘ .6t'?naN/9/I  6§v-{y'?‘¢!(/
7",.» —._: -/J’ ((5/«mt. :3y)rv-:'wa-1*.

   
  
  

Gift (.Zerrifi(2.zrr:s Make.
Iixcctiicrxt Stortkirrg Stuffers:

(540) 264-9063

$222 $322 ‘fear?

Sea Splash iterate

I 3.8€¥&.é3§.*??"3§
wm.sa::is;3Ea hte22rs.ees::.

   

guara ntee,
or your money back"

 

~r.*Uzc:~1OZH

 
  
 

        
  

     

I
Going to rmrr school in 20957 Prepm for  LSAT
. . with Rapier: here: on campus at ‘Uh’-&LIl
I /
r a  r I z r t P Classes man on Fehrum  
Gram Lassaaaaes. Hausa . I Enrnli    in . our
Prrrirssiraraxasesa lttztage §4§~4§?«34-t? H . 2 . Y
r stuﬂes a any tinker!
I
309 N. Main St. —  , VA 24450 O
' world Leader in Test Pm!
‘    R  
tttttttttttttttttt  D ”“?W',,;;*;§°,',*g,;';f;;,“,g;;j ;j;;,';_:ﬁ;;*:'é‘*: pi. ‘ ‘pi ” ‘S I I‘  
      ..........  H ......  . , . I ....... . . .........  ﬂymﬂwmadcﬂsnﬁ mmwmmgmgpﬂw rrmmww  , . Z I I
J)  Rmérdskug as;a21#&;ias.§ltae;rf§§sx. smmwé: “mam dmgmmm W 3 .. mm“! Tm,‘   P L  
Fumauéﬂﬁdafw-wt rem: ‘§‘.F§1‘.3.€.l1!’.~ r.s.e2.s.uz:rs the mom»? that sum I W I _ m mm“;  M gm“ W a I A ..
~ .. ~  Stall mm ofycmrtraimrs.‘T-n=:awr:iiaJtalefartat1isnttnr,. I ' e ‘ '
 E :t.*;.':.“rf‘“t;:?W"'°°":f“;;*.::““‘”‘”°‘”’: Man-rtnr-rest
- 5 . .'Q¥ .i'|'91243Q.il'5.ir%5«. t. |'?s.5'l.':|l.333.'i'3.USi .' .- .
‘. '1. .-H. , --~ _. ,1 .!. :6. . "c. 3-. 3-... _ '  ‘ ﬁ_  I ' i _ _ .
' - ~*~Wr*"mm*'**rr- ..r.:;‘:?.§.m’t"t.m’f:.‘%§?.;';;.?“"“ karrtest-wmllaw
’-‘ 23-’ - www.,cam;>r.: o:noiraiser.com
E

 

  

JG-lNl'll1AN)
ASSITANFSIOKISEDIIOR

mm m

lloNDAr,llovEMnER17,2003

Generals fall in championship

S .

 
 
 
 

'iE‘€i§~’.if'Us '

 

 

  

GOOOAAAAALLLLL!!! Anne W/"rltshire scores the  penalty kick against Greensboro after the teams played 11O scoreless minutes in Saturday’s NCAA Regional Semiﬁnal.

JOHN HYLAND ,
ASSISTANT SPORTS Enrron

Yesterday, the W&L
women’s soccer team lost in the
second round of the NCAA tour-
nament for the second straight
year, falling to ODAC rival Vir-
ginia Wesleyan. The Generals
entered the tournament ranked
sixth in the nation and concludes
its season with a 15-2-3 overall
record.

By virtue of their ODAC
crown, the Generals earned the
first seed in the South Regional
of the tournament, also meaning
that the region’s games would be
played in Lexington. In a rematch
of the ﬁrst round of the 2002 tour-
nament, W&L played,Greens-
boro College. The Generals won
last season’s match-up with a 2-
0 decision but this year’s game
would prove to be a little more
difﬁcult. The teams played to a
scoreless tie during regulation,

0nd half shots and the Pride 8 of
their own. For the game, the Gen-
erals held a 17-11 advantage in
shots. The two overtimes pro-
duced little offense and after 1 10
minutes of soccer, neither

up, 1-0, handing the Generals Marlins last Saturday inthe con— game winning streak with a 2-1
their only regular season loss. ference tournament fmals.Inthe decision.
W&L, however, came back to win regional semiﬁnals in Lexington In the ﬁnals, on a cold and

their second straight ODAC
crown with a 2-1 victory over the

on Saturday, Virginia Wesleyan
snapped Hardin—Simmon’s 15-

team could produce a score.
Part of the reason for the lack
of offense was the stellar play
of both team’s goalkeepers.
Greensboro goalie Kerri Wells
and W&L junior Emily Barker
made 6 saves apiece. The Gen-
erals ﬁnally prevailed in pen-
alty kicks. Both teams con-
verted on their ﬁrst attempts
but the Pride missed their next
two opportunities with the
second heading wide right.
The Generals were able to
connect on their fourth
straight shot to preserve the
victory.

The win set up a regional
championship match-up be-
tween the two ODAC foes.
Virginia Wesleyan won the

rainy afternoon, the Generals of-
fense remained cold. They were
only able to muster two shots on
goal in the first half, neither of
which got on goal. For the game,
the Marlins defense only allowed
5 shots but did not force goal-
keeper Laura Vifiederwax to make
a defense. The Generals defense
was steady as well, allowing thir-
teen shots, none of which beat
Barker, who made 5 saves. The
two squads played scoreless
through regulation and one over-
time period but with 3:30 left in
the second overtime period, Mar-
lin forward Meg Bronstein con-
nected on a shot from the corner
of the 18-yard box, to give Vir-
ginia Wesleyan (entering the
tournament ranked seventh in the
nation) a birth in the NCAA

JEB BROOKS

V G-TUMPHI
SPIRIT! Womens’ Soccer fans came out in force to cheer on the team during

quarterﬁnals, where they will play
DePauw this Saturday.

PME6

after strong tournament play

  
 

 
    

erals eight game unbeaten streak.
Nevertheless, the regional ﬁnal
markedthe deepestaW&L squad
had reached in school history.
The future continues to look
bright. Last week, the ODAC re-
leased its all conference players.
Several General underclassmen
received recognition. Junior de-
fender Kelly Zagol and sopho-
more midﬁelder Kerry Giblin
earned ﬁrst team honors. Fresh-
man forward Anne Wiltshire, the
team’s leading scorer and fresh-
man midﬁelder Rebecca Cohn
made the second team while
sophomore defender Heather
Rogers was named honorable
mention. The team loses only
three seniors, including co—cap-
tains Meghan Hayde and
Fontaine Marcoux, both of whom
were named ﬁrst team all-ODAC
performers and received ac-
knowledgment for the third
straight year. Marcoux ends her
career as the school’s all-time

despite W&L getting off 10 sec-

teams’ regular season match-

NCAA Regional play at Championship Soccer Field.

The loss snapped the Gen-

leading scorer.

Football team ends season with 27-14 win over Greensboro

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING Enrron

The Washington and Lee football team ended
its season at home Saturday with a 27-14 win over
Greensboro. The Generals dominated the second
quarter, scoring all of their 27 points then. Wash-
ington and Lee improved its record to 3-7, while
Greensboro also changed its record to 3-7.

Greensboro got on the board first when junior
Mantron Davis intercepted a pass from senior Pe-
ter Dean, starting a touchdown drive. Freshman

Ted Hoyle rushed one yard for the score. Kicker‘

Erik Naglee made the extra point.

Washington and Lee’s Ted Mafﬁt would then
intercept a Greensboro pass only 50 seconds into
the second quarter. The interception started a
touchdown run that ended with a 55-yard pass from
Dean to sophomore Clark Kensinger. Freshman

kicker Ben Long’ s attempt was goodnchanging the
score to 7-7.

After a failed Greensboro drive, the Generals-
took the ball once again to return it for another
touchdown. Sophomore quarterback Greg Tweardy
rushed for one yard to score. Long made the kick,
putting the score at 14-7.

The Generals then recovered the ball on the
next play after the on-side kick. Dean completed a
34-yard pass to junior John Bamwell. Freshman
Richard Garland then rushed twice to get the touch-
down. Long’s extra-point attempt was good, and
the score was set at 21-7.

On the next possession of the ball, the Gener-
als scored their ﬁnal touchdown. With only 00:16
left in the half, Tweardy found senior Jonathan
Brimer for a 28-yard touchdown pass. Long did
not make the extra-point, but the Generals went

into the second half leading 27-7.
Early in the third quarter, a Washington and
Lee fumble led to a scoring drive for Greensboro.

. Sophomore quarterback Justin Roberson com-

pleted a pass to senior wide receiver Ricky Moore
for the touchdown. Naglee made the extra-point
to increase the score to 27-14. But the touchdown
was not enough to get past the Generals. Neither
team scored for the rest of the game.

The Generals lead Greensboro in rushing as
well as passing. Washington and Lee rushed for
147 yards, while Greensboro only rushed for 62
yards. The Generals also passed for 225 yards
compared to Greensboro’s 112 yards.

Garland was the top rusher for Washington
and Lee, running for 103 yards. Dean led the team
in passing with 129 yards, completing 9 of 14
passes.

Hoyle ran for 35 yards for Greensboro, .
Roberson passed for 59 yards, completing 10 of-23
passes.

On defense, senior Ben Krasnoff led the Gen-
erals with nine tackles and one sack. Junior Lloyd
Wilson had six tackles.

Seniors Ian Mosher and Richard Tattersall led
the Greensboro defense with 12 tackles each. Se-
nior Cortney Gunter had eight tackles and one sack.

Sat11rday’s win ended the season on a posi-

tive note, along with the placement of three Gener- _

als on the COSIDA College Division AcademicAll-
District Football team. First team honors went to
junior linebacker Wes Kimmel, senior defensive
lineman Jess Lipsey, and senior defensive back
Lee Walker.

Washington and Lee ended its season 1-5 in
the ODAC and 3-7 overall.

Cross Country teams compete in
NCAA South/Southeast Regional
Championships at Emory

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

ATLANTA, Ga. — The
Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams
were in action on Saturday at the
NCAA South/Southeast Re-
gional Championships hosted by
Emory. The Generals men’s squad
ﬁnished 10th out of 20 teams,
while the W&L women came in
eighth out of 20 teams.

On the men’s side, senior
Andy Schorr (Kingwood, Texasl
Kingwood) led all Generals with
an 1 1th-place overall ﬁnish and a
time of 26:53.84. With his ﬁnish,
he earns all-region accolades for
the third time in his collegiate

Junior Steven Chambers

' (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area)

and senior Rusty Meyer (Dal-
las, Texas/Jesuit Prep) were the
second and third W&L runners
to cross the tape, respectively.
Chambers ﬁnished 30th overall
with a time of 27:49.66, w_hile
Meyer recorded a 47th-place
timeof28:29.31.

For the women, sophomore
Mary Christopher (Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla./Cardinal Gibbons) led
all Generals with a 41 st—place run
of 25:33.35. Sophomore Betsy
Frayer (Grand Rapids, Mich./
East Grand Rapids) finished in
45th-place (25:40.44), while
freshman Julie Harris (Rich-
mond, Va./Saint Catherines) ﬁn-

 

- COURTESY PORTS INFORMATION
KEEP IT UP. Junior Emily Wolﬁng hits the ball in the
Generals’ NCAA tournament play at Trinity University.

Knvr GUNST
STAFF Warn-:11

The Washington and Lee volleyball
team fell to Emory University in the sec-
ond round of the 2003 NCAA Division 1]]
Tournament at Trinity University.

The Generals started strong as they
won their opener against Averett, 25-30,
30-18, 30-17, 30-21, this past Thursday
evening. Junior outside hitter Emily Wolf-
ing led the team with an impressive match-
high 19 kills and 13 digs, while sophomore
setter Christine Gladysz totaled a career-
high 65 assists and‘12 digs.

“We beat Averett for the third "time
this year, and it was great to make it to the
second round of the NCAA tournament,”
Captain and ODAC Tournament MVP
Emily Wolﬁng said.

Despite their strongest efforts, the
team watched their season come to a close
Friday evening when they lost to Emory,
30-27, 30-25, 30-27. Wolfmg led the way

olleyball falls in second round of NCAAtoumament

Sophomore middle blocker Susan Gaillard
tallied 10 kills and junior outside hitter
Michelle Chastain recorded eight kills and
ﬁve digs.

The Generals struggled for a Victory,
but held late leads in all three matches.
“Our loss to Emory came as a huge disap-
pointment,” Wolﬁng commented while
looking back on the team’s loss. “They
played great defense, and we fought hard.

It just wasn’t our night, and we came up a ,

little short in the end.”

The General’s loss against Emory
ended their season with a 35-4 overall
record, but the team seems even more op-
timistic aboutvnext year’s season.

“Since we have no seniors on the
team, we all need to work hard this sum-
mer and come back next year determined
to make it past the second round, which
the team has lost the past 3 years,”
Gladysz said in hopes to do even better
next year. “Despite the rough ending to
the season, our regular season could not

career. A ished 56th overall (26:04.64). again—-- this time with 11 kills and 10 digs. have been better. “
' I ‘Hrs W EEK’ s S CHEDULE 
Tuesday, November 18 Wednesday, November 19 Thursday, November 20 Friday, November 21 Saturday, November 22 Sunday, November 23 
0 W Swimming vs. 0 Open 0 Open 0 M Basketball at F&M 0M Basketball at F&M 0 W Swim at Bryn Mawr 
Hollins--7:00 Tourn.--8:00 Tourn.--TBA Tri.--1 :00 ,
0 W Basketball at Peace- 0 W Basketball at Howard
-8:00 Payne--3:00

-1 :00

0 Swimming at Dickinson-

 

PAGE 7

A

 

 

8t LIFE

MBGANMURGAN
ARTS&LlHiEDl'IOR

mm m

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

W&L student sings backup for Lyle Lovett in Richmond

I :Uo'v7"a Vficai 2

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

While most people limit
their musical performance
to singing along with the
radio, junior Tran Kim re-
cently got the unique op-
portunity of singing
backup for Lyle Lovett at a
live concert in Richmond
this past Wednesday night.

Lyle Lovett is primarily
known as an alternative
country singer, but he has
done songs that cover a
wide range of genres, in-
cluding jazz, folk, and gos-
pel. He is currently on a
seven week United States
tour following the release
of his latest album, My
Baby Don’t Tolerate. In
each city he performs,
Lovett uses a gospel choir
from the area to sing
backup during his gospel

selections. Kim was se-
lected to be a member of the
group during his concert in
her hometown of Rich-
mond.

The opportunity arose
when Sheeila Belle, editor
of the Richmond-based The
Gospel Times, sent out a
mass email two weeks prior
to the performance seeking
applications from singers
to form a choir for Lovett’s
Richmond concert. Kim sent
in an application, even
though she was unsure how
she got on the email list
and did not even know the
details of what she was ap-
plying for. In fact, she had
never even listened to
Lovett’s music prior to this
experience.

Not long thereafter,
Kim found out that she had
been chosen to sing in the
gospel choir during

Lovett’s Richmond perfor-
mance. She received a CD
in the mail of five gospel
tracks to rehearse, three of
which would be performed
the night of the concert.
She did not even have the
opportunity to rehearse
with the group she was
singing with until just
hours before the concert.
A total of nine singers
were chosen to sing
backup. They became a
choir just for that night,
and called themselves
‘Gospel 911.’ Out of the
nine chosen, Kim was
somewhat the odd one out
in the group. She was sig-
nificantly younger than all
the other singers, and was
also the only non—African
American in the group.
“The people I sang
with were very nice and
welcoming and took me

a

under their wing,’ said
Kim.

After the last minute
rehearsal, Gospel 911 took
the stage to sing for a full
house in the 2,000 seat Car-
penter Center. They sang
backup for three songs,
one of which, ‘I’m Going to
Wait,’ was just released on
Lovett’s new CD.

“It was my first gig in a
big venue. There were
people in the articles sing-
ing and clapping and get-
ting into the music. It was
really neat and Ijust had a
great time,” said Kim.

At W&L Kim sings
with the Joyful Noise gos-
pel choir and General Ad-
mission mixed a capella
group. She plans to con-
tinue her involvement with
music after college, but is
not sure how actively she
will pursue it.

WHAT FUN

 

Mocx CONVENIION. The Gala last weekend was a big success by most accounts. Big Ray and The
Kool Kats (left) entertained about 1,000 guests at the black tie affair on Friday night. Noah
Rhodes (right), the general chair of Mock Convention, also enjoyed the sounds of the swing

 

band. Students danced the night away in Evans Dining Hall, which was decorated in patriotic A
colors for the event. This was the first chance that many students had to enter the Evans

Dining Hall this year since it is no longer used.

Antiquing in Lexington stores an exciting way to spend a weekend

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

It’s no small secret that Lexington businesses
do well over Washington and Lee’s Parents Week-

' end. Many of the Lexington antique businesses

most especially attract W&L parents.

“At this point, I do prey off W&L parents,”
said Henry Simpson of Lexington Antiques.

Simpson opened his shop in September of 1975,
so he has been around long enough to see many
Parents Weekends. “The downtown looks like a
cocktail party during W&L Parents Weekends,” he
said, “VlVlI parents never spend— they have them
scheduled totally. . .VMI doesn’t let them loose.”

Simpson located in Lexington because his wife
is an art history professor at Washington and Lee,
“I’m stuck here. . .and I’m so glad about it,” he said.

Fran Tinelli, of Francesca’s Antiques, retired
early to move to Lexington to open her business. “I
saw Lexington in Southern Living about 10 years
ago,” she said, and opened her antique shop in
April of 2001.

“I have customers from all over the US. . .locals
and people from around Virginia are about equal to

the number of out of state customers and I have _

customers from about every state,” said Tinelli.

Tinelli called Lexington a “destination town,”
and said that people come from several states just
to spend a weekend in Lex.

She also said that W&L parents come to her
shop all year, and that Parents Weekend is, “no
better than any other weekend. I have very good
business—I would not want to depend on that
one weekend,” she said.

Tinelli, who specializes in 18”‘ and l9“‘—cen—
tury furniture and “antique accessories” said she
travels to auctions, “all over,” for her merchan-
dise. She also goes through catalogue auctions
and estate auctions looking for possible mer-
chandise.

Tinelli holds degrees in restaurant manage-
ment, personnel, finance and an MBA, and ad-
vises the students of the college town she serves
to “learn all you can, then pull together all you

Engaged?

Send your
announcement to
the Ring—tum Phi

at phi @ w1u.edu

k¢<l>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢<l>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢<l>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢%

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie
in an
international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
www.triplenine.org

 

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

University
Cleaners

THE CLEANEST OF THE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING
LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Great Service
First—Rate Quality

Submit
your ~

to

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

anonymous

Quick Hits

phi@wlu.edu

«mat in .2. sagtmaza mxwnmotiran baseman at 

 all sznuuirad ciasaas £1!’ rnaltew aussims.
 all  13515, NH! ED  
if wur more dt‘.!e3&t¥"t  an taﬁit my flmﬁ 31211.1!’
itlaplan dtagmznlc -at at pater‘ ntiinlal ttwst smut-¢._ yarns’
caanermaeamnapaat mt ﬂflIQ?'Bl?l?ﬂf§T8£-iIf§$.8
Sui!  cf aI:24.tr’t.t.si:it.ua'1’c.c SM taltgllaita rcirtaita amt.
team must lzueemzesozl in icaptarﬁs an claaereuaétt.
ibﬁoflttz; 0%.! mltna mums. B1 aaxlttiara we 
girasont an nmaial  u¥_yma~  Ieegincr and
5i.ll§¢‘l‘lI£fyEt'stl‘ WJM materials wtmta 

know when you retire. . .you can have a great re-
tirement with all you’ve learned through work-
ing.

Sally Gaines is the owner of All That Glit-
ters, an antique and estate jewelry business she
opened six years ago. .

Gaines cites local people, W&L parents and
VMI parents as her main customer base.

“My business is most proﬁtable at Parents
Weekend and at Christmas,” she said. Gaines
also sells to students, although usually, “they
spot something and then bring their parents in,”
said Gaines, who acquires her merchandise from
people who bring in things to sell and from dif-
ferent dealers and antique shows in the area.

MT score  
  uaranteed    
or your money back“

Prepare far the Atari! 2604 lick?
with Kaptm  on campm at WKLII

ﬁlassas bagki Jemuary 10. 
Enrtsla   Octnber 31;! and receive
on:-ilna  Review FREE!

Wa|'|I.l|%rh'|iI»stPr1EP

KAPLﬁN 

 

mtmm
Raptasteam/pruizad

 

PAGE 8

  THE “?l§“l““WoRD

MEGANMCRGAN
Aris&liEEEDrror

 m

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

A startling fact about frat guys, too exclusive for their own good 1

Excited over yet another WVU primetime up-
set special over Pitt (hopefully I’ll get no fuming
responses over the origins of Pitt’s mascot this
week), I hobbled over to Fiji this past Saturday
night to enjoy their band party. I happened to
spot a friend on the 2"‘ ﬂoor, and to avoid clogging
the already bustling hallway, we ducked a few feet
into laundry room, which was already open. Afew
seconds later, some malcontented
sophomore Phi Gam, thinking perhaps
I was trying to pilfer some of his dirty
clothes, told me I had to get out of the
laundry room. Granted, having a con-
versation with a friend in a fraternity laundry room
seems a little unorthodox, but this guy wanted to
fight me over it. Bafﬂed, I left the Fiji house a few
minutes later.

Last year, I went to Pi Phi’s fabled packing-
peanut party. After talking with a few friends, I
trudged into the stage room through the 3 feet tall
sea of foam to get a beer from the bar. Afterwards,
I walked back to talk with my friends, at which
point a very armoyed Pi Phi pledge approached
me and asked “You’re just going to get a beer??! !”
as if I had committed a crime against God and na-
ture. I wasn’t sure how to react — I wasn’t even
sure if he was serious, and I almost laughed in his
face. Instead, I enjoyed the Natty Light which had
caused so much drama, and left Pi Phi humored yet
confused. v

There are a few trends of our Greek system
that are just plain stupid and unreasonable. The

  
 

Take a break, have some fun  

BY ]i=.B BROOKS
EDITOR 1N CHIEF

“I’m too busy.” Surely that is one of
the most widely heard statements today.
We are all too busy. Too busy for what?
No one has more than 24 hours in a day;
some just use what they have been given
more wisely than others. There is no need
to complain about how little time you have
and how many things you have to do, all
of us are busy and all of us have too little
time. Why not take some of that time and
spend it in a unique way. Sometimes you
need to break the monotony. Doing some-
thing completely and totally random is not
only fun, it is a great way to create some
truly lasting college memories. Some of my
favorite times at Washington and Lee have
come from doing something out—of—the—or-
dinary.

Next time you want to say that your
life ﬂies by and that you have no time for
anything, stop yourself. Take a moment to
take a break. We are in Lexington, Virginia,
the heart of the Shenandoah. Why not

most predictable one goes something like this...

A young man pledges to a fraternity and from
that point on, he considers that fraternity to be
part of his identity. As a result, he invariably be-
gins to drift away from friends, hallmates, and ac-
quaintances who pledged elsewhere, since he
spends the majority of his time with his pledge
brothers. This falling-out almost always leaves a
' bitter taste and some hurt feel-
ings (though most frat boys
would be unwilling to admit it).
To complete the transition, as
a sophomore, the fella will most
likely live in the fraternity house, and will spend
his energy rushing new freshmen in direct compe-
tition with all his forrrrer friends who are in other
houses rushing the same guys.

Fraternity sophomores are the worst. Sub-
conscious about the well—being of their own house
and their own rush, they try desperately to sell the
best image possible. In the grand fraternity game,
they try to pull as many people as possible to their
house, and would prefer that the other fraternities
not exist. Fraternity sophomores would rather sit
in their own houses then go party elsewhere, and
when they do go out, it’s often with the intention
of bringing people back to their own parties. Cer-
tainly, this strategy doesn’t exactly work miracles
for intra-fraterrrity relations.

Here’s another fabulous trend ~ fraternity up-
perclassmen try desperately to rush a certain fresh-
man. They pull out all the stops. They take him to

ABSOLUT FRATIDRD

take advantage of all that surrounds us?
There are countless ways to pass time in
the area, and only two of them are study-
ing and partying.

Try something new, something differ-
ent. Go to Lake Robertson and hike around
it. Trek over to Natural Bridge and gawk at
the wax figures. Head up to the Greenbrier
for a cup of afternoon tea. Drive on to‘
Charlottesville for some ice cream. Watch
a movie in Roanoke, go to the Safari Park,
explore the caverns up north. Do some-
thing. Step outside the box.

There are literally millions of things
you can do around the area. If you need
some advice, just go to the Lexington Visi-
tors’ Center on Washington Street.

I am as guilty as anyone of making ex-
cuses, but we’ve got to remember that our
Washington and Lee experience is'more
than just classroom time. Leave town for a
day or a weekend and you’ll have some fun.

Hey, if you need someone to join you,
let me know. I’ll be glad to come along. As
long as it isn’t a Monday, Wednesday or
Friday.

    

Driven: What do W&L undergrads drive?

t‘>m grzwztod My :k~iwn<t'p '4$9.\nf¢ £62-ﬁn em-yr: vi xrcgmce-st

INFOGRAPHIC BY KATIE]. HOWEIl/ THE RING-TUM Pm

dinner. They call him to do individual stuff con-
stantly. They spend all sorts of time and energy
on this one guy. And then come tear night, the
guy ends up at another fraternity. Not surpris-
ing, the fraternity guys feel slighted and pissed
and insulted. They grow to despise that fresh-
man for going the other way. Then they grow to
despise that other fraternity as well, out of hurt
feelings. '

Therd’s nothing wrong with fraternity pride.
Fraternity Rivalries are not horrible things, and
can be quite healthy. But how do we let these

ideas drive us to the lame high school phenom--

ena of social clique—ing and oversensitive feel-
ings?? This is college, not high school, right??
The trap is easy to fall into. It perpetuates
itself. After joining a fraternity, you’ve got plenty
of friends, you’ve got your own parties, and your
own social circle. All you need is already pro-
vided — why branch out and keep an open mind??
To make it even more ridiculous, some frater-
nity brothers feel the need to ostracize other mem-
bers of their house for branching out. It’s taboo
to keep close friends in other fraternities, to go to
parties other than your own fraternity events, or
to even invite other frat boys to your own events.
Do I even need to explain how excessive this is??
Finally, as a senior, I’m able to appreciate
hanging out with all different sorts‘ of W&L folks,
and I’ve been having more fun than in any previ-
ous year. Through intramurals, I’ve met people I
would normally not come across in a typical day.

In pick-up basketball, I play with a whole slew of
freshman and non—Lambdas. And out of my en-
tire West Virginia Mock Con Delegation, there is
only one guy in my fraternity, so it’s been an-
other great opportunity to get to know and be-
friend different people across campus. At the
occasional Saturday morning gin bucket, I may
be nothing more than the token Lambda, but at
least I’m fratemizing with people that I don’t see
every day.

Not everyone is so inclusive. Students on
sport teams or in ensembles or in clubs interact
with different people everyday. There are innu-
merable opportunities for anyone to get out and
meet different people in this small school.

But the worst of the worst is that lame frat
boy who wants nothing to do with anyone else
outside of his own bubble. I can’t think of a
bigger waste than to go through fouryears in
Lexington believing that other people aren’t worth
your time because they aren’t in “fraternity X.”

4 Take my advice — don’t be that guy. The
best people on this campus are the ones who can
transcend the isolationism of the Greek system,
who identify themselves as a W&L student first
and a fraternity brother second. Naturally, ev-
eryone will come across people they don’t like.
But give everybody a chance — get to know
people before you try to bring them down. In
doing so, maybe you can help erase the bound-
aries and pretentiousness that so often gives the
Greek system a bad name.

Student sit— ins shut down meeting

It hasn’t happened yet, but
this is how Kirwan is calling it.

LEXINGTON— Today, the February

 

Science Center, but the students
followed a late arriving Board
member and discovered the plot
to carry on “business as usual”

meeting of the BoardofT nistees was despite the student protests.

essentially shut down by a group of Student organizers reported
Washington and Lee students. The that they had been planning the sit-
students, who numbered nearly one in since the faculty vote on Spring
thousand, organized Term. The
a sit—in to protest the RIGHT OF THE AISLE closeness of
Board’sirnminentde- ‘ the vote, only
cision to change the BRETT KIRWAN 04 9079, signaled
school’s under— to the students
graduatecalendarfromthreetotwo _ thattheBoardwasgoingtobefree
terms, eliminating the cherished and to ignore the opinions of both the
unique Spring Term ’ faculty and the students and make

“Near unanimous student
opinion had previously been ig-
nored by the Trustees,” said sit—
m organizer Ansel Sanders, “In
response, we have prevented the
Board from meeting until they
commit to saving Spring Term.”
As he spoke, the mass of sign-
waving students who occupied
Northen Auditorium and most of
the main ﬂoor of Leyburn Library
cheered. Music played and the
spirit of the students was high be-
cause they felt that their opinions
were finally being listened to.

“This is preposterous,” blub-
bered University Rector Phil
Norwood, “Washington and Lee
students are not supposed to act
like this. I mean, we knew they
had strong feelings about Spring
Term, but we had trusted Presi-
dent Burish to deal with the stu-
dents.” Norwood, who was just
elected to the position of Rector
at the Board’s last meeting in Oc-
tober, attempted to lead the Board
to a secret meeting location in the

a decision based on “ﬁnancial con-
siderations.”

Lawson Grumbine, another
member of student 12-12-6 com-
mittee, explained the students’
thinking. “After President Burish
leaned on faculty to vote in favor
of the 14- 14 calendar, we saw
what the plan front the Board was.
Although the Board was unable
to orchestrate a victory for two
terms, the faculty vote was close
enough that they can claim
Spring Term doesn’t have signiﬁ-
cant faculty support.

“We determined that a deci-
sion to end Spring Term was inevi-
table unless we took drastic ac-
tion,” Grumbine added. “So, we let
students lmow that the sit-in was
‘put up or shut up’ time to save
Spring Term. Needless to say the
result has been overwhelming.”

Nor was the protest limited
to typically active students. Gen-
erals from every major, Greek or-
ganization, varsity sport and
dorm participated. Organizers

made hundreds of signs for the
event. Students. enthusiastically
waved signs saying, “Save Spring
Term, Sell the Commons,” “Spring
Term is the bottom line,” and “Two
terms = no contributions!” and
dozens of other catchy phrases.

Classes virtually ground to a
halt due to lack of attendance.
Some professors even canceled
their classes so students could at-
tend the sit—in. “Spring Term is es-
sential to the continued strength
of the Music Department,” said
Professor Terry Vosbeiri, “Without
Spring Term, we would hardly
have any music majors. I wanted
to let my students do everything
they could to save Spring Term.”

Even professors who support
a change to a two semester calen-
dar were impressed by the students’
activism. “I certainly won’t hold
anything against my students who
missed class today,” said account-
ing ProfessorElizabeth Oliver, “I’m
really surprised that W&L students
would make such a fuss over the
calendar and then follow through
with this level of 

Whether the students’ efforts
will prevent the Board from chang-
ing the calendar remains uncertain.
Neither Norwood nor any other
Board member has indicated that
the Trustees will bend to the stu-
dents’ wishes.

Should the outcome be a
change to 14-14, the Board can ex-
pectmore ofthe same,though.“Un—
til Spring Term is preserved, we’ll
keep up these sit—irrs. If the Board
hastomeetinCalifomiatoavoidus,
so be it," challenged Sanders.

 

(I) The John W. Elrod Commons is turning into
the John W. Elrod Forest. How about more artwork
and fewer plants?

Q Darla Elaine Dixon, she of the French book
and hoodie Campus Notices, has a distinctive and
alluring prose style. If one can love a Campus No-
tice writer, then, Darla, I think I love you.

Q Or: Darla Dixon’s recent Campus Notices were

so abrasive and grating that 3M has decided to
discontinue their steel wool products and use her
manifestos instead.

Q How about kudos to Beta and KD for their
efforts in the Toga Party last Saturday. It rocked!

Q Will it ever stop raining?

Q That’s right ladies . . . the man who used the
HV pick up line on Helen “The Face that Launched
a Thousand Ships” Hughes is Jason “The Goof’
Fitzsimmons. Get him while he’s stillsingle. (By the
way, the mono will go away soon.)

Q Fiji had a mechanical bull on Saturday. Did they
really have to steal the idea from Chi Psi?

Q The Mock Con Gala was a lot of fun. Hey, FD
Committee, did you hear that? Try Big Ray, not
George Clinton, and maybe we’ll enjoy ourselves
this year.

Q More on the Gala: Props to the Ohio Delega-
tion for having their delegates adorned with buck-
eye stickers; though they resembled marijuana
leaves a little too much for my taste. '

Q And one more: There shouldn’t have been any
charge for soda and water. At minimum, underage
students shouldn’t have had to deal with the tick-
ets. '

Q Yet another: After. the success of the Gala,
Mock Con should be able to bring The Boss for the
Convention.

Q ‘Finally: The Gala gave us an opportunity to
lament the loss of Evans as the main Dining Hall. It
has so much more atmosphere than the Commons.

(I) Students who haven’t met Reed Evans are
really depriving themselves of an experience in
witty bitterness.

Q 'I‘here’s a prowler around the sorority houses.
Any bets on which fraternity sends pledges to imi-
tate him come Winter Term?

Q After all the fun freshmen have had with Helen
Hughes, any bets on Anne J ohansen reconsider-
ing her run for EC President next year?

Q Saturday was the 226th anniversary of the Sec-
ond Continental Congress ratifying the Articles of
Confederation.

Q Geographers are amazed at the recent discov-
ery ofLake Gaines 381.

Q Wow! Who thought the Bengals would be the
first ones to knock off the Chiefs?

Q I love Wal—mart. It has all of America’s bounty
in one place.

Q What happened to the tailgate!?! I doubt the
fraternities would have canceled their event come
November.

Q Would the Calyx please bring back indexing?
It was very helpful.

Q Thanks to the University of Kentucky for send-
ing its Snu chapter to W&L this weekend. It was
great to meet you guys.

Q Attention persons in need of rides: Rather than
making Campus Notices intolerably long, use
W&L’s Ride Share webpage, available at htzp://
nsa.wlu.edu/cgi—bin/ride/rideboard.pl.

Q How great is Colonnade Connections? I’m
seemingly using it several times a week.

Q Hey, Dean Futrell: I hear that you are a terriﬁc
bowler.

Q Happy Anniversary to Mr. and Mrs. VVintson
Watts Burks, III ‘81.

Q I think it would be a good idea if all the frater-
nity guys parked on the bottom ﬂoors of the ga-
rage ‘and didn’t use the elevator to kill two birds
with one stone. No parking problem and no more
beer guts. ‘

Q Thanks to Paul Seifert, Lord of the Phi, for keep-
ing us in the black all these years.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu. Stories of familial embarrassment
and the negative effects of tryptophan from the
holiday are encouraged.

 

