Arch

  

 

4 372. 755

K

R ..
V33?
rw-8

‘(cpa

  

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
STAFF WRITER

What exactly is Mock Convention? Traces of
this important event have permeated campus since
the ﬁrst day of school in forms of newspaper ar-
ticles, the convocation speech, and word of mouth.
Why so much attention? What does this repu-
table occasion represent and entail?

The history of W&L’s Mock Con speaks for
itself, with its status as the nation’s most accurate
mock convention since its establishment. While
the convention boasts 17 correct predictions out
of 22 attempts, its reputation has grown even stron-
ger with time. In fact, our Mock Con maintains
only one miscalculation after the 1948 convention,
producing a 92% prediction rate.

Washington and Lee’s Mock Convention has
even caught the eye of highly regarded pundits
and publications. 77m_e labels it as “the biggest
and bloomingest” of all amateur gatherings. After
the 1996 convention, the Washington Post claimed

The itudem‘ voice of Washington and Lee Umlersigy Jim 7897

W&L’s convention to be “one of the nation’s oldest
and most prestigious mock conventions.”

In the past, Mock Con has hosted several re-
nowned speakers including Jimmy Carter, Newt
Gingrich, and Bill Clinton. (Clinton actually enter-
tained some students by playing his saxophone at a
country party.) While this year’s speakers have not
yet been armounced, we can expect an excellent line-
up, especially if it reﬂects the Spring Kickoff sched-
ule that included Dick Morris, Dr. Al Sharpton, and
Donna Brazile.

At the Spring Kickoff held last May, students
had the opportunity to not only listen to famous
speakers, but also to participate in a discussion fo-
rum with interesting political analysts such as Dick
Morris and Charlie Cook. On the lighter side, The
North-Mississippi All-Stars also played that week-
end at Lime Kiln for the enjoyment of students.

Its student-rim nature and tradition of success
establish W&L’s Mock Con as a newsworthy, re-
spectable, unique, and exciting affair. Noah Rhodes,
General Chairman of Mock Convention, elaborates

on the student organization, explaining how “The
whole thing is student-run. We have advisors, but
it is a hands-off deal.” The general leadership of
Mock Convention consists of a 25-member steering
committee, some of whom have been working
since April of 2002, almost two years
before the actual convention.

The success-rate of Mock
Con results from the diligence of
a large number of people. The P0-
litical Chair Michael Denbow su-
pervises the Regional Chairs, —
who oversee the work of State
Chairs, all of whom have their
own committees. Brooks Morgan,
Fundraising Co-Chair, explains that “Mock Conven-
tion becomes more and more of a teamwork experi-
ence as the Convention nears.”

Over 200 people conduct impeccable research
in order to correct candidate. With the recent en-
trance of General Clark as a Democratic candidate
for President, students now must focus on ten can-

PHI

 
  
 
  
  
   
  

MONDAY, SEl’lEl\«lBER22,2003

A Anticipation builds for Mock Con 2004

didates in their efforts to choose the winner.
Noah Rhodes contributes an additional motive
for success.

“One reason it will continue to be this suc-

cessful is this huge pressure. We’ve been
wrong once since ’48. You want to
honor the people who have done
it before you.”

Reﬂecting the traditional W&L
attitude of “work hard, play
hard,” Mock Con encompasses

several festivities for the en-

. tertainment of students. The
Presidential Gala will be held
November 14, with “Big Ray and the

\

    

Kool Ka ” playing. Mike Baker, the Social Chair
of Mock Con, describes the Presidential Gala. “It’s
a big social event to get people thinking about
Mock Con. It’s a fun thing.”

To add to the excitement of this black-tie

SEE MOCK CON, PAGE 2

 

Isabel’s u deatas Sou

Swept away. Water ﬂooded South River Road Thursday duringHurricane Isabel’s rage. Dozens of dead ﬁsh lay across the road after the water receded

BY JEB BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

. The destructive force of Hurricane Isabel narrowly missed Lex-
ington and Washington and Lee on Thursday night. Areas in the
southeast part of the county were not so lucky.

ACE may cancel frat parties

ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY
South River overflowed its banks and began covering
South River Road prompting authorities to close it late on
Thursday night and into Friday morning. The force of the wa-
ter washed out parts of this road, also known as Virginia 608.
The river is usually no more than a small creek, but it continued

JEB BROOKS / Tbe Rmg-tum Phi

hier, bypasses Lex

to rise until 1:45 on Friday morning, when it reached a crest of 11.6
feet on the gage at Cornwall, which is in the South River district.

According to CJ Norris, a Special Enforcement Ofﬁcer for
Rockbridge County’s Emergency Services division, the event be-
gan with high winds, which picked up and led to some power out-
ages. Norris had been working for 14 hours when he was inter-
viewed. ,

“The areas to the north that we drain got a lot more rain,”Norris said.
This caused South River to become inundated with water and ﬂood

Rockbridge County did not see as much rain as other parts of
Virginia. The weather monitoring station in Vesuvius, Virginia re-
corded ten inches of rain. Norris said that Sherando Lake, near
Waynesboro, recorded approximately 16.6 inches.

The rapidly rising waters had authorities from as far away as
Salem and West Vaco scrambling to get to Rockbridge County. Five
families and two vehicles in the South River district were swiﬁ water
rescued.

LEXINGTON

Damage in Lexington was far less severe. Scattered power out-
ages and two downed trees were the extent of Isabel’s rage on the
city. ‘

The Department of Public Works labored through the night to
ensure that drains and the streets remained clear of debris that fell
due to high winds.

“We were very fortunate,” said David Woody, the Director of
Public Works.

According to Chief of Police, Bruce Beard, the only real damage
was a tree that fell on the SUV of a Lexington resident. The other
downed tree was on a vacant property on South Main Street.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Washington and Lee lost only one major tree limb, which fell on
Letcher Avenue.

The University’s Physical Plant was out in force overnight in
case they were needed. The department’s director, Scott Beebe, had
ﬁve people on standby, in addition to his regular overnight crew.

“We got all dressed up and no one came to the party,” said
Beebe. He also stated that, “We expended a couple hundred man
hours and picked up ﬂowerpots and boxes — anything that could
become a missile”

Other than a few minor roof leaks, the University’s buildings
were not damaged. .

Williams promoted to Provost

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
STAFF WRITER

Fraternities at Washington and Lee are
coming into conﬂict with a section of the
Inter Fraternity Council by-laws. Accord-
ing to by law XI section iii, no fraternity
event shall be scheduled at the same time
as an All Campus Event.

In the past, this has not been a problem
becausee Washington and Lee has had very
few campus events. With the addition of the
Elrod Commons, however, the fratemities
have more competition than just the Student
Activities Board. ,

“This is not a new policy,” said Matt
Jacobs, the Inter Fraternity Council advi-
sor. He went on to say that it was not an
administrative policy, but an IFC policy.
The objective of this IFC law is to have the
campus come together, united, to do ac-
tivities together.

“There really is not that much of a
policy,” explained IFC president, Brian
Castleberry, “The genesis is that fratemi-
ties will not hold band parties at the same
time as SAB band parties.” He went on to
state that the question currently being ex-
amined by the IFC is what_ exactly consti-
tutes an all campus event.

Since most fratemities appeared to be
unaware of this aspect of the IFC by-laws,
fall term is serving as a grace period before
penalties develop. The IFC would like coop-

eration with the fraternities. A party for this
weekend can obviously not be moved, but a
party in late November could, possibly, be
moved. Fraternal organizations must notify
the [F C of their plans, so judicial action will
not occur.

Possible judicial punishment for hav-
ing a party during an All-Campus Event
would include, “one week or two weeks of
social probation, plus a ﬁne, but there is no
penalty spelled out in the by-laws,” said
Jacobs.

The Commons Board will supposedly
give every Greek organization on campus a
calendar of scheduled All Campus Events.
Jacobs said that there would probably only
be about four more all campus events a term
than last year.

Castlebeny agreed and saidthat the huge-
nuInberofIeeentAllCampusEventsisduetothe
Elrod Commons kickoﬂ‘evaIts. .

“It is not a plot to restrict Fraternities
and their social events, it is an extension
of an old policy,” said Jacobs. Castlebeny
stated that this is not that big of an issue.
He feels that respecting events such as A
Night to Remember is reasonable; yet hav-
ing All Campus Events every weekend is
not acceptable.

Greek advisor Theresa Glassman, Jacobs,
and Castleberry are currently loolcing to revise
the IFC constitution. The new constitution
will be more explicit to what represents anAll
Campus Event

BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN
STAFF WRITER

When asked what he enjoys most
about his job as provost, Tom Will-
iams says, “The people. As I’ve
bounced around from professor, to
associate dean, to provost, I have had
to opportunity to work with more and
more wonderful people.

\V1lliams, an integral part of the
Washington and Lee campus since
1974, beganhis careeratVMI in 1971,
where he temporarily taught in the
physics department. During this time,
he also established close ties with the
physics faculty at W&L.

After working as a staff scientist
in Colorado, Williams was invited to
teach at W&L as a physics professor.
This past year, Williams became the
Provost, heading both the College, the
Wrilliams School, and the Law School.
He is involved with the planning pro-
cess at W&L, with both the Dean and
President, and is involved in all as-
pects of academic life at the univer-
sity.

During his many years at Wash-
ington & Lee, Williams has seen many
changes affect the university, includ-
ing the decision to become coeduca-
tional in 1985. He describes this
change as almost “parallel to the cur-

rent discussions over the academic
calendar.”

“The debate over co-education
was in many ways the same as the
alumni was overwhelmingly in favor
of remaining all male, the Board of
Trustees was in favor of remaining
all male, while the faculty felt that
admitting women would improve the
institution, but was concerned about
the quality of students.”

Williams also describes the up-
coming Mock Convention as both a
“serious activity” and the “single
most encompassing academic activ-
ity on campus.” Viewing the conven-
tion as a “special thing,” Williams
hopes that other topics could be-
come equally as exciting.

“While the real thing is so thrill-
ing, as is most things in politics, I
would want to capture that energy
in other topics and perhaps display
such energy more frequently, like
every two years.”

In respect to the recent college
rankings from both the Princeton Re-
view and U.S. News and World Re-
port, Williams doesn’t believe they
can be grouped together. “Rankings
set definitions. I am very often cyni-
cal of the value of rankings. . .as they
can both encourage people lto ook
where they may have not looked

before, but can also discourage stu-
dents from looking at schools.”

Williams, however, maintains,
that you cannot ignore the inﬂu-
ence of such rankings. He said that
Washington and Lee is a unique
school, especially since it is the
only school in the top 25 liberal
arts schools that has both an ac-
credited journalism program and a
law school. And by remaining such
a small school, “the teaching is
personable. At larger schools, you
cannot teach in such an intimate
way.”

Williams, in fact, “would not as-
pire to be number one.” While W&L
has seen much change since its
founding, it has not grown signifi-
cantly. “We have seen steady
change in the academic catalog, with
the introduction of interdisciplinary
programs, such as Women’s stud-
ies, and Environmental studies.” He
also notes that, “Over the years, the
student body has become more ca-
pable and more impressive.”

However, Williams cites that while
the university has changed and will
continue to change, we cannot
change the inherent values of Wash-
ington and Lee, “because by chang-
ing ourselves, we wouldn’t be Wash-
ington and Lee.” '

VOLUME CV1, N0.V1II. I

. o

 

    

PAGE 2

N “l}E"\:‘.-§-<1:i\'Ik\'2..fI..:\\’: 

MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 22, 2003

Construction continues in C—school

The Earnest C. Williams School of Commerce
and Politics has seen several changes over the sum-
mer. Renovations to the outside as well as the
inside are continuing to be made to the structure.

The Administration has set two major goals for
the outside renovation. The ﬁrst is to build a new
handicap ramp at
e———--—‘- the front of the

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS building in a dc-

CHRIS LAUDERMAN ‘O5 °f’“‘a“d““°b‘“_“
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" " sive manner.This

ramp has been built on the east side of the building next
to the main entrance. It blends in with the landscaping
as it leads to the basement of the Williams School.
The second goal setby theAdministrationistobeau-
tifythewestsidenexttoGrahamLeesnowthattheElnod
Commons is next to the entrance. The old handicap en-
traricethatwrappedaroundthebackofthebuilclirigis
now gone. In its place is anew brickpoitico and staircase.
The Administration wants a clear, unfettered pe-
destrian area between the Elrod Commons and the Wil-
liarns School. A sidewalk and landscaping were added,
andatransforrnerhadtobemoved, tomakethearea
clear of obstacles between the C-School and Commons.
The interior renovation has brought more changes
as well. The overall goal of the interior renovation is to
make the Williarns School more technologically ad-
vanced with “smart classrooms” and more ofﬁces.

  

Commons kickoff exceeds expectations

The basement of the Williarns School now has
two new ofﬁces. “There is a shortage of offices in
the Wﬂliarns School,” explained Joseph Grasso, Vice
President for Administration. On the main ﬂoor,
the old reading room has been divided into two
new rooms. The Colonnade side is now an open
lounge with computer access. The Commons side

 

CORBIN BLACKFORD / Tbe Ring-tum P122"
Brocxm. T'heexitattl'iebackoftheC-Schoolis currentiyforernergencyuseonly.

puter lab is more conducive to learning than the
computers that were in the old reading room.

Other renovations to the inside include classrooms
being retroﬁtted with risers which are supposed to lead
to a better teaching environment LCD projectors have
also been installed in many of the classrooms.

“I like the fact that the old C-School had a
bigger library, but the technology
upgrades were greatly needed,”
said Senior Politics major, Bryan
Early.

“We have accomplished a
great deal in a compressed time
frame,” said Grasso. The Adrnin-
istration is pleased with the al-
most completed project and the
amount of time it took to ﬁnish.

The outside renovations should
be ﬁnished by late September. The
inside renovations are ﬁnished with
the exception of some minor cos-
metic touch-ups that lmve yet to be
made. Acostestimatecould notbe
givenatthistimeforthepiojectbe-

has been converted into a new “smart” classroom.
The third ﬂoor has a new computer lab. The Ad-
ministration feels that the layout of the new com-

cause not all of the invoices have
been turned in to the Administration

The Vlfilliams School, built in 1900, is not
scheduled for a complete renovation at this time.

CORBIN BLACKFORD / Tlze RlIlg—f1I77I P/JZ

 E Stairsn0wgraceti'iebackofﬂ'ie\XﬁliamsScliool

CATHERINE SWAN
STAFF WRITER

After a variety of events in-
cluding movies, book readings,
music, and even a rock climbing
wall, the University Commons
concluded its twelve day kickoff
schedule Sunday.

Planning for the schedule
began last spring term when mem-
bers of the All Campus Events
Committee, orACE, started meet-
ing to discuss possible events.
The goal of the committee was to
provide a variety of activities to
interest all members of the W&L
community, while also showing
how different areas in the build-
ing could be used.

Events have included sev-
eral movies in the 189-seat cin-
ema, book readings by W&L
professors, and football on the
big screen TV in the lounge.
University organizations have
also used the Commons for spe-
cial activities. The Nabors Ser-
vice League, for example, held
an Open House in the Com-
mons Room, and Career Ser-
vices also held an open house
in their new expanded ofﬁces
located on the third ﬂoor of the
Commons.

“Some of the events have
had a lower turnout than we have
hoped, but many have exceeded
our expectations,” said Director
of Student Activities Teresa
Glassman.

One event that proved es-

pecially popular was the Sidewalk
Chalk Competition. The compe-
tition allowed student organiza-
tions to showcase their contribu-
tions to campus life while also

tivities, campus organizations
have been encouraged to spon-
sor some of the kickoff events.
For example, Sigma Nu spon-
sored last week’s Monday Night

HIGHER. Climbers touch the sky as part of the Commons kickoff events.

competing for a $500 prize.
Glassman estimated that almost
170 students participated in the
competition.

In an effort to get more stu-
dents involved in Commons ac-

Football Party in the Commons
Theater. In addition to sponsor-
ing events, campus organiza-
tions have also been using the
rooms in the commons for club
meetings. The facility has been

overwhelmed with reservations
to use the rooms.

Another activity designed
to draw students to the Com-
mons is Common Grounds, the
new version of Java at the GHQ.
Common Grounds will occur ev-
ery Wednesday night from 8:30
to rriidnight. The event will fea-
ture music and drink specials
from the cafe. Last week’s per-
formers were the jazz musicians
of the Dave Kline Band. In the
future, Common Grounds is
looking to seek out entertain-
ment from W&L student musi-
cians.

The Commons staff plans
to continue to provide enter-
tainment and activities to the
W&L community in order to
make use of the new facility.
Their aim is to have activities
available to students on the
nights they have time to relax,
such as Wednesday, Friday, and
Saturday.

“The goal is to create a vi-
brant center of community for the
campus and to bring the students
and faculty together, so that they
don’t have to join a Greek orga-
nization just to have that sense
of community,” said Acting Di-
rector of the University Com-
mons Leroy Atkins. “It’s doing
what we want it to do — to have
people pass through all day, all
week long.”

“I ﬁnd it very encouraging
that people are choosing to spend
time here,” said Atkins.

Futrell named dean of housing, minority affairs

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

With the opening of this school year, Washington and Lee stu-
dents have witnessed many changes, most obviously the new Uni-
versity Commons. Yet physical plant changes are only the surface of
what’s different at W&L this year, because virtually the entire Dean
of Students’ ofﬁce was reshufﬂed this summer.

After Dean Courtney Penn left W&L last year to take a position with
Head Start in Roanoke, his position as Assistant Dean of Housing and
Minority Affairs became vacant and a replacement was necessary. The
new dean of students, former dean of freshmen Dawn Watkins, found who
she needed just down the road: Tamara Futrell of Hollins University.

At Hollins, Futrell served most recently as direc-
tor of ﬁrst and second year programs, coordinating
housing as well as assisting students with their tran-
sition to college life. Prior to joining the residence life
staff at Hollins, Futrell earned a master’s degree in
education with an emphasis on college community
counseling from Longwood College (now University)
in Farmville, VA. She obtained her bachelor’s degree
in psychology from Virginia Commonwealth Univer-
sity in Richmond, where she was a member of the
Class of 1994. ANewport News native, Futrell is very
happy to be in Lexington at W&L, where she’s pleased to ﬁnd everyone
so friendly and welcoming.

Futrel1’s path to W&L was helped greatly by friendship, as "it
happens. She met Deans Watkins and Penn a couple of years ago at
a conference where they agreed to meet again later to discuss profes-
sional issues. Watkins invited her to W&L, where she introduced her
to the rest of the staff in the dean’s ofﬁce, and invited her to help
conduct a workshop for resident assistants (R-As). After Penn left,
Futre1l’s name came up as a natural replacement, and Futrell accepted
the job without hesitation. She says that W&L is such a wonderful
institution, and she was also very much attracted to the idea of work-
ing with Dean Watkins, whom she characterizes as a great boss and
leader.

In her first couple of weeks on the job, Futrell had to commute
between Roanoke and Lexington until she moved to Lexington, which

 

made getting to work a bit challenging. More signiﬁcantly, she says,
she was very familiar with Hollins but everything at W&L was very
new. Of course, she feels completely at home now that she’s ﬁgured
out how the pieces of the puzzle, so to speak, ﬁt together.

In her first year at W&L, she faces many challenges, not the
least of which is to listen to what everyone has to say and learn
from them. She enjoys hearing student voices and wants to make
sure she is viewed as accessible. From an administrative stand-
point, she plans on reevaluating university policies on housing,
particularly with regard to clarifying policies and changing the tim-
ing of the lottery system and room deposits. These are issues, she
says, which have come up in the recent past so she’d like to try and
prevent them in the future.

In the long run, she has two major goals, both of which relate to
her capacity in minority affairs. The first is that she wants to make
sure that underrepresented groups at W&L, like racial minorities and
gays and lesbians, feel comfortable and that they have resources to
go to if they need help. Her second goal relates to minority freshmen
in particular because, she says, going to college is a hard enough
transition without factoring in being a minority when previously you
might have been in the majority. She aims to serve as a contact point
for freshmen and other students who might need a little extra help
adjusting to college life. 4

When she’s not at work, Futrell enjoys spending quiet time at
home and socializing in Roanoke. Both her church, St. Matthew’s
Word of Life, and her sorority’s graduate chapter are located there,
and she sees those two places as her primary social outlets. She is a
member of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a black sorority. As a graduate, she
attends social functions for graduates and performs volunteer work,
all the while continuing to pay dues. As for the proposed chapter of
AKA at W&L, Futrell says this is still in the works, although a recent
lawsuit against AKA has temporarily halted recruitment.

While she plans on remaining at W&L for some time to come,
eventually Futrell would like to be president of Spelman College in
Atlanta. She feels that her position at Washington and Lee places
her ideally, career-wise, for this move. W&L has a long tradition of
breeding successful people; perhaps as an honorary alurrma, Futrell
will do W&L proud later in life. For now, W&L is pleased to be the
beneficiary of her no doubt considerable talents.

Delegations begin
recruitment this week

BY ANN BANKER
STAFF WRITER

The‘ Mock Convention is holding its State Delegate Fair on
Wednesday, September 24"‘ in Doremus Gymnasium from 104. All
Washington and Lee students, law school and undergraduate
alike, are encouraged to come and join the state delegation of their
choice. This event serves as perhaps the easiest and most impor-
tant opportunity students have to get involved.

Convention chairman Noah Rhodes is hopeful for a large
turnout: “We want to sign up over 1500 people. . .the whole idea is
to involve everyone in the school.”

By signing up for a delegation, a student will get to help with
the research of their respective state, build the state ﬂoat with the
rest of the delegation, receive a state t—shiit, attend state parties,
a n d more.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 

The most important aspect of
signing up for a delegation lies
in the fact that it guarantees
admission into the actual con-

vention} Students will sit to-
gether in their delegation
sections, rather than in the
general admissions bleachers
which could potentially close once the convention reaches maxi—'
mum capacity. By joining a state delegation. students have an
absolute guarantee into the convention.

The cost to join a state delegation is $25 (which conveniently
swipes home). In selecting a state to join, Political Chairman
Michael Denbow suggests students pick a state that they feel
represents them. Denbow pointed out that often groups of friends
collaborate on which state to sign up for while other students feel
a special loyalty to their own home state.

If for some reason students cannot attend the Delegation
Fair on Wednesday, there will be an online registration that can be
accessed by going to‘ the Mock Convention website
(www.mockcon.wlu.edu).

MOCK CON, FROM PAGE 1

event, several arriazing items will be raffeled off, including various
trips and gifts from Lexington businesses.

The Convention itself is naturally accompanied by numerous
activities. There will be a parade Friday morning in which each
delegation will provide a ﬂoat. Speakers will follow the parade
later in the afternoon, in addition to additional outside entertain-
merit.

The convention itself will be Saturday, January 31. At the
convention, students in the delegations enter the delegation’s
predication. As Noah Rhodes states, “The whole idea is to in-
volve everyone at school.” For those of you who aren’t involved,
go to the state delegation fair next Wednesday. This monumental
event will be even more rewarding and exciting if you are some-
what involved. For more information about W&L’s Mock Con-
vention visit its website at mockcon.wlu.edu.

Pipe possiby at Beta

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

While making his normal rounds at the Beta Theta Pi house
on Friday night, Security Ofﬁcer RexRode found a drug-related
device.

“Rex was wandering through the house and apparently found
something like a pipe,” said Beta Theta Pi President Seth Martin.

Higher authorities have not gotten involved. “The house is
dealing with it internally,” said Martin.

Martin said that the matter will probably be brought before
the InterFraterriity Council. “I assume they’ll be comfortable with
the fact that it’s being dealt with internally,” said Martin.

Martin said that Beta Theta Pi would get the lFC’s input on
what an appropriate punishment would be for the individual who
possessed the illicit implement.

“The individual will probably get social probation,” said
Martin. He also said that the house would look to the IFC for
guidance on how long the individual’s punishment should last.

At press time, neither the IFC nor University Security were
available for comment.

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003



No large classes at W&L

What is it makes Washington and Lee
one of the top 25 liberal arts colleges in the
country? We, as well as prospective stu-
dents, choose to come to this University
because of excellent professors, unique
educational opportunities and the individual
attention we receive in small classes (at
least in terms of academics).

But with the advent of the Commons,
small classes are no longer a staple here at
Washington and Lee, as large, auditoriurn-
style lectures are now made possible. In-
troductory chemistry, biology and journal-
ism classes are all being taught in the movie
theater on the Woods Level of the Com-
mons. Multiple sections of these introduc-
tory classes were combined and crammed
into the theater. The Phi has three main
objections.

At Washington and Lee, at least, the-
aters are meant to be used to watch mov-
ies— not to teach classes. Let’s leave that
to the huge, dark citadels of the Ivy League.
The irnpersonality of 1 15 people in one class
ﬂies in the face of the educational values
of W&L. There is very little discussion and
even less one-on-one interaction between
a student and professor———the very experi-
ence that makes real leaming possible.

It may be argued that these are only
introductory classes. Students will have
plenty of time to fonn bonds with their pro-
fessors when they take courses later in
their college careers. We are not, however,
at a huge research or post-graduate school
and do not expect to be subjected to lec-
ture halls. Students come to W&L expect-
ing to learn by interaction with their profes-
sors and peers, whether the number of the
course is 101 or 390. Just last year, intro-
ductory classes lent themselves to such in-
teraction. Shoving 100+ students into athe-
ater suifocates any communication that
should, and could, take place in intro classes.

We posit that although the theater may
temptthe administration to design large, lec-
ture-hall-style classes, this should be
avoided. Large classes may be slightly more
efﬁcient, but much of what makes this Uni-
versity unique is lost as the
“Swarthmoriﬁcation” of W&L marches on.
Freshmen and others in introductory classes
do not deserve to be just another face in a
theater. They deserve to have the individual
attention that we all demand and expect at
Washington and Lee.

   

te of the Week

“You shouldn’t be governor unless you can
pronounce the name of the state.”

~Gov. Gray Davis (D-Calif)

  PHI

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Sports Editor Allison Perry
Asst. Sports Editor John Hyland

Production Assistants Emily Edwards
Hilary Henry
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Anne Iadarola
Katie Howell

 

Copy Editor
Editorial Director

Business Manager
Circulation Director Hm;-y G;-imbau
Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wluedu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax.‘ (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wIu.edu

Paul Seifert

rarz Rljl\’2t.'§-’.‘i"'E..‘:lB»»l_ Par

PINIONS
radition dep

 

CAIEYANDERSON
OnN1oNsF.onoR

ends on frosh commitment

FMAmANDEr2soNo@wwmU

PAGE 3

FILE Prrorro

STOP AND STARE. Washington and Lee students of yesteryear extend the speaking tradition to the entire corps of VMI cadets.

Every year the same cry for help comes at about
this‘ time. Some eager student writes about the
impending death of the Speaking Tradition. This
year, that someone is me.

It hurts to walk past someone, say hello and
get nothing in return. I literally

 

Sadly, I don’t think that is the case. I am will-
ing to bet that others would agree with me that our
hallowed habit of saying hello is on the way out,
unless we take collective action. However, this is
not a dead issue. There is still time to save it.

In the age of cell phones, MP3

cringeatthe image. Sadly,thisis  players and the deluge who-
arelatively common occurrence ‘ knows—what devices that go in
in my life. In fact, recently I  your ear and make noise, it is easy

 

passed a freshman wearing a
“SPEAK” shirtwwhodid not respond to my
acknowlegment. .I.don’.t think it gets much worse

than that.

Perhaps my greeting is not loud enough, maybe
I should yell next time. Maybe I’m just an invisible
and easily ignored person.

Maybe I’m wrong. Could the end of the Speak-
ing Tradition just be in my head? Is it just happen-
ing to me? Are all of you being greeted, and I’m not?

to block out your neighbor com-
pletely. It’s simple to just walk on by without

cementing our unique sense of community in 

your own mind. Washington and Lee is special
because it is small. Small enough that we should
want to recognize each other on the street as W&L-
ers. Why can’t we say, “hi” or “what’s up?” Is that
too diﬂicult? Surely not.

I don’t want to be on a soapbox in holier-than-
thou fashion. I just want to encourage us all to

take part in what many consider our most cherished
southern tradition. I love the sense of community
here; nothing makes me happier than to walk down
the colonnade and greet and be greeted by my friends
and fellow W&L-ers.

It looks stupid when one person walks by, says
hello and is not greeted back. It could even hurt the
feelings of the greeter. Is there any good reason to
do that?

Freshmen: you hold the power here. The phrase,
‘you can’t teach an old dog new tricks” ﬁts per-
fectly. The “old dogs” are the Sophomores, Juniors
and Seniors. It’s awfully easy to get stuck in the I ’m-
not-going-to-greet mentality and not ever clamber
out. Frosh, I beg you, don’t do it, don’t fall victim to
what too many of us have. Say “hello,” say “what’s
up,” say something, anything. In the classic words
of one of the greatest advertising campaigns of all
time, just do it.

File sharing wrong, but RIAA not right

As returning Washington
and Lee students have no doubt
noticed, ﬁle shari_ng is becoming
a more and more serious issue by
the minute. The Recording In-
dustry Association of America
(RIAA) has begun to level law-
suits at users of peer to peer ﬁle
sharing programs like Sharman
Networks affiliates Kazaa and

_l\IIorpheus, which allow free

downloading of media files, in-
cluding music and video.

The RIAA’s stance on the
whole issue is simple and quite un-
derstandable. Programs such as
Kazaa allow users to get a hold of
copyrighted music, video, and
other media that they would other-
wise have to pay for. When a user
of a peer to peer program allows
another user to download a copy-
righted music ﬁle, he or she is»es-
sentially infringing on the copy-
right of the artist who holds the
intellectual property rights to the
song in question. This deprives
the artist of fair compensation for
their work, and thus is obviously
illegal. Speaking as a former user,
I understand that ﬁle-sharing is not
a victimless crime, and I know that
by wiping ﬁle sharing programs off
my system, I did the right thing.

This does not change my
opinion, however, that the

RIAA’s methods and motives
behind this hunt for ﬁle sharers
are extraordinarily questionable.
Firstly, they wish to “want to
send a strong message that the
illegal distribution of copy-
righted works has conse-
quences.” They believe that by
targeting users who share a large
number of ﬁles and making them
examples, they can discourage
others from using peer to peer
programs. Fair enough. What’s
not fair is that they’re asking for
large cash settle-
ments from their
targets, who of-
ten didn’t even
know that they
were doing any wrong. A threat
ofa lawsuit to speciﬁc individu-
als, or perhaps some sort of
cease and desist order would be
far more civil.

In one case, the RIAA
squeezed $2,000 out of the fam-
ily ofa 12-year old girl who lived
in a low—income housing project,
and whose mother qualiﬁed for
welfare. Way to go, RIAA, I can
tell that this is really about pro-
tecting the artists and not about
money. If you’re a struggling,
starving college students (not
likely at W&L, but let’s open our
minds here), you can expect the

  
 

MoDERArE’s MUSINGS
QnnAmEnoN‘06 not the wicked,

wonderful folks at the RIAA to
demand $15,000-$17,000 in order
to call off their legal hounds. To
review: in the RIAA’s opinion,
it’s perfectly ﬁne to suck $2,000
out of a family that’s not getting
by as it is, but it would be dread-
ful, absolutely dreadful to de-
prive the wealthy officials and
stars of the music industry of the
about $4 an album that they get.
Perhaps they REALLY needed
the money in order to finish pay-
ing off their beachside man-
sions.

Secondly, the
root problem here is
—m_”M~"l freeloading nature
ofpeople (that’sjust apithy cata-
lyst). The problem is that the
popular music industry these
days promotes mostly trash.
That's why people aren’t buy-
ing CDs, and that’s why the mu-
sic industry is hurting. Musical
mediocrity is the standard of
today’s big names, names like
Britney, Christina, Justin, J-Lo,
and, of course, the list goes on
and on. You better believe that
the same people who use brib-
ery and unfair business prac-
tices to keep artless wonders
like these on the air (aka Clear
Channel Communications) are

quite in league with this assault
on ﬁle sharing. This is not only
because they lose money off of
it, it’s also because file-sharing
poses a threat to their extremely
poor quality throne atop the mu-
sical world. How so? Kazaa
(and Napster before it) not only
let users download popular
songs, it allowed up-and-com-
ing bands to upload songs for
public listening. In this way,
new, out of the mainstream
bands could gain recognition
and popularity. The RIAA
(which represents musicians
who have already “made it”) no
doubt sees this as a threat to
their precious stranglehold on
the industry, and that’s defi-
nitely an ulterior motive of
theirs for this lawsuit. Better to
have popular trash remain popu-
lar than to replace it with some-
thing a little more artful.

So again, thanks, RIAA, for
protecting us from the evil,
greedy 12-year olds of the
world. I hope you enjoy that
$2,000 you wrung out of her, and
I look forward to sighing at the
next “artist” that you churn out
of your musical crap factory.
I’ve wiped my hands of file-shar-
ing, but that still doesn’t mean
I’ll buy your CDs.

 
  
  
  
 
 

FILE SHARING AND THE RIAA: THE FAcrs

. Twenty percent of that
Elgggilfllleugiecligelll 85% is legally avail-
 released by 5 RIAA ' able at any given time,

 labels, the other 15% the ‘est ‘5 13°14 ‘“
comprises less than lesellfe’ but ls llﬁell
1% of all music sales avallable vla ﬁle
' sharing programs.

 

   
 

DATA PROVIDED BY hymtiriaa. org AND riaaorg

Since file sharing
became an issue,

l ; sales of CDs have
declined by 9.4%.

 

 

  

PAGE 4

O ’.‘iil~ aw >r=:-M332 if

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003

Commons criticism unjustiﬁed

Frankly, I’m tired of the
negativity and trivial nitpick-

ing that’s been swirling around

our new University Commons.
I feel it is time
that the stu-
dents read
something en- '
tirely positive
about the
John W. Elrod University Com-
mons.

While I am only a Fresh-
man, and do not have the luxury
of providing an in-depth com-
parison to the old D-Hall and
co-op, I was a summer scholar
two years ago and had some
limited exposure to these out-
dated facilities. For those
Freshman that have yet to step
foot inside the old D-Hall, ven-
ture inside one day when you
have some free time. It’s remi-
niscent of a super sized bingo
hall at your local retirement
home. Once inside, visit the
crawl space in the rear of the
building where students

 

_ SLICE ON LIFE
 .- NICK MANNINO ‘O7

picked up their food each day.
This relatively closed-air par-
tition served well for those of
us who wanted to hit the sauna
‘ before we ate.
The average
temperature in
that room dur-
ing cooking
hours must

Nabors
Service
Day

October
4th,
2003

Help out

your
community

Contact
perinij@wlu.edu

Nabors
Service
League

terms, the new dining area
kicks ass.

Another portion of the Com-
mons that has been under at-
tack lately is the café/empo-
rium. While I must admit the
prices are pretty steep for the
portions of food served, is
money really a major concern
for the majority of students at

with a greater reading selec-
tion, augmented apparel sec-
tion, and an entire ﬂoor dedi-
cated to student textbooks.
As some of you have read
in previous articles, buying
textbooks in the old bookstore
was like visiting the DMV; you
weren’t going anywhere fast.
Other highlights of the

oward of the Week V

An irregular‘ ii:1*21ﬂ3}’s;‘ of the Riizguizzn-2 Piaf X

MLB Commissioner Bud Selig C

 

€32.23: }?$§°2 Yeast -

Sit}: 3'§}i8.Si’i ‘tears
§.&$€}.%3§.‘?’?3i§

may maples €t'i3.3.'3.=£§§m

 

T/ie Cutting
Ecfge

Men anzf Women
Styli: Cuts
Cfipper Cuts

Compkte Hair Care jbr

Manicure
Q’eJicure
‘Waxing

Complete Qocfy Care

11 7 ‘W. Wefson St.
Lexington, ‘V/I
463-9588
Cbse to Campus
(Professiona[.$‘al2m witli a
?ersona[‘Toucﬁ!

    
 
  
 

been agitating for university admin-
istrations to stop selling apparel
manufactured in so-called sweat-
shops, stop accepting money from
unsavory corporate donors and to

working groups’ reports and voted
to keep a 12-12-6 calendar, the
choice of the professors is neither
binding nor indicative of the deci-
sion the Board will make.

of our re-

served and comparatively serene
student body, the inconvenience
and aggravation dealt to the Board
by a sit-in or protest might be

have been ninety-five degrees. Washington and Lee? Not to Commons include agame room, 1:
You could break out in a sweat generalize, but I’m pretty con- theatre, and plenty of comfort-
lifting your tray off the stor- fident that for those of us who able alcoves for your late-night
age rack. Okay, so I’m exagger- use the café/emporium as an studying needs.
ating a little, but you get the occasional substitute for the Hopefully by now you C”
point. dining hall, it’s more than af- hold the Commons in higher
Our new dining area in the fordable. regard. I challenge any of you
Commons makes the old D- Not to mention the sitting to find a liberal arts college
Hall feel like a prison cafete- ‘area is infinitely more comfort- of this size with such an amaz-
ria. While some say the design able than the plastic booths in mg facility. While some fea- it
is ﬂawed, I think it is an archi- the old co-op. Speaking of the tures of the building may not Commissioner Selig, the man in charge of pro baseball, would
tectural masterpiece. The co-op, have you fellow Fresh- be essential to the life of a not reverse his decision this week to seek contraction (essentially
oversized windows provide men had the opportunity to see W&L student, they sure are the destruction) of several MajorLeagueBaseballtearns, including
much welcomed light for us di- that joke they called a book— a wonderful luxury to have the MinnesotaTwins and Montreal Expos.The elimination ofthese
urnal beings, and the spa— store situated right next door? available. So enjoy the barnd two teams from the region would doubtless benefit the team that
cious, unconfined section I honestly think some stu- new John W. Elrod University Selighimselfowns—theMilwaukeeBrewers.Hiscowardly,back-
where food is served is liber- dents’ bedrooms at home are Commons for all it’s worth, handed attemptto beneﬁt his struggling franchise atthe expense of
ating compared to the old bur- of the same size. The new book— and please, stop being so the exciting Expos and division-leading Twins is just what baseball
row of a food line. In layman store is atwo-ﬂoor work of art, nitpicky. doesn’t need as attendance continues to drop. 1:
S ° T d1 (1 d d t' t’
g
s
I
.1
A
)r
PHOTO COURTFSY averfzr .e 14
WHAT WE NEED NOW. Haverford students protesting issues related to the “institutionalization of diversity” on the Haverford College campus in 1977. "it _
This weekend, Yale came to an call publicly for an end to the war In fact, sources close to the enough to convince them of the se-
agreement with its custodial and on terrorism. Some efforts have been Board report that the decision to riousness of our desire to see our
restaurant unions after a lengthy more successful than others, but eliminate our beloved Spring Term beloved Spring Term left intact. Di-
contract dispute. After nearly three students, with few responsibilities in favor ofa two semester calendar. rect action might be the only method
weeks without residential dining and lots of free time, have made the The Trustees will be coming to still available to us by which we
halls, Yale students best of their opportu- campus for their Fall Meeting Octo- could draw from the Board a com-
will once again be RI nities to prevail on a ber 23-25. Students should use that mitment to preserve Spring Term and
. GHT OF THE AISLE , . . . . . . . . .
able to enjoy ho campus elite opinion. opportunity to deliver to them a mes- to making its renewal a financial pri-
breakfasts rather ' BRETT KIRWAN ‘04 In our bucolic slice sage that thousands of signatures ority, regardless of the vote of the
than the bagels and of heaven, socks-and- on petitions, polite letters from the faculty.
apples to which they had become ac- sandaled advocacy for such wrong— EC and deferential articles in the Phi Too often, other students at-
customed. Undergraduate Bulldogs headed left-liberal causes would cannot. The October meeting may, tract national news to their cam-
made common cause with the unions hardly be appropriate or necessary in fact, be time for W&L students to puses because of ill-considered and
to demand that the university pro— (or easy to get students to partici- imitate the tac- protests supporting
vide a more generous pension plan pate in, for that matter). However, tics of physi- “ silly causes. Come Oe-
and betterjob security. these examples of student protest cal protest so Come October)“/&L tober, Washington and
In December of 2001, Harvard around the country can teach us successfully Wm Lee students will have
students staged a weeks-long sit-in what Generals might be called on to used by stu- Students have an an opportunity to show
to force the administration to exam- do to save our beloved Spring Term. dents at other  to Show that that student protest can
me whether it provided the Today, the faculty voted to send universities. be used for the aca-
university’s employees with a “liv- a calendar recommendation to the Although student protest can be demic benefit of a uni-
ing wage” and were successful in Board ofTrustees. The results were such mean , versity. In our case, to
convincing the administration to not available at press time and while strategy is 11SCd fOI.' IhC ﬂC21(lCfI'11C demand that the Board
raise the average wage. one certainly hopes that the faculty typically not , - - ,, preserve the ﬂexibility,
Students across the nation have heeded the advice of the calendar the province b€11€ﬁt0f3l1ﬂ1V€f51tY« breadth of offerings

and endless opportuni-
ties for travel and unique study that
Spring Term offers requires our best
efforts, even the extreme of student
protest.

  
      
   

I'3"'i'%:-in-' 'i"Zm;.i~a. ..  I 

 

 

   
 

iviiaiiiiiéiﬁ T§2=ii¥?‘i?3t~i555="‘;%§i   Me  "  it‘-l-:';"»»  lint fiéik-ﬁilitss,-*‘ 3 .
Fixi:ﬁr£a::e'r';ing   ’fEii.§%ii%£ ":i‘:.135.i§al’5.i}‘.<  smiths iiiia use A ’

ti-

 

.._:.¢i-g,,§,t°k:ur~ i::§j’r;1.i! i*é‘riiint‘r2i-ii;i~i“rig.

'   

for The Ring-tum Phi

Call x4060 or email

Write

phi@wlu.edu '

 

-4’k

  

AursoNPBzRY
Srons Enrror

EMAll:PERRYAlV@WlUE)U

MONDAY, SEl’I'El\/[BER 22, 2003

 Rex;-net Per

PORTS

PAGE 5

Women’s Soccer wins in shut out over Lynchburg

BY Ar.L1soN PERRY
SPORTS EDITOR ‘

Hurricane Isabel could not keep’ the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s soccer team from improving
their record this weekend to 4-0 and 3-0 in the ODAC.

The Generals defeated the nationally ranked
Lynchburg team 1-0 on Saturday. The game was
originally scheduled for Friday but was rained
out.

Washington and Lee also defeated Emory and
Henry 7-0 on Tuesday.

The first half did not see any scoring, but Wash-
ington and Lee sophomore Kerry Giblin scored the
only goal of the game soon after the second half
started. Giblin recovered the ball after freshman Anne
Wiltshire’s shot rebounded off Lynchburg goal
keeper Erin Johnson.

Junior goal keeper Emily Barker had 3 saves in
the game. Johnson had one save.

“We never gave up the entire game,” said Barker.
“We challenged everything.”

Lynchburg led in shots with 13, while the Gen-
erals only had seven. The Hornets’ had 3 shots on

Men’s soccer defeats

goal. Alison Phillips, Jessica Coles, and Christina
DiLiddo contributed one shot on goal each.

Washington and Lee had two shots on goal.
Vlfrltshire had one shot on goal, and Giblin’s goal
counted as the other.

Lynchburg had 22 fouls, while the Generals had
12. Hornets junior defender Taryn Wyckoﬁf received
a yellow card.

Scoring goals for Washington and Lee in the game
against Emory and Henry on Tuesday were VV1ltshire,
freshman Cara Burton, sophomore Conner Esworthy,
freshman Sarah Helms, junior Maggie Hope, senior
Fontaine Marooux, and freshman Maggie Megear.

Helrnshadtwo assists, while Marcoux,ﬁ‘eshmanBlair
Haws, and sophomore Heather Rogers had one assist each

Freshman Emily Binns stayed in the goal for the
Generals, making 2 saves. ,

The Generals meet up with Hollins on Tuesday,
September 23 at 4:30 p.m. in Roanoke.

Hollins was picked to ﬁnish eleventh in the ODAC
preseason poll. But Barker says the team works hard
preparing for every game.

“We are going to do what we normally do and
get focused,” Barker said. “We are going to get ready
to come out strong.”

Kerry Giblin

Skills. junior Maggie Hope Outsmarts a player.

Generals face trouble with Tigers

Ferrum and Catholic

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L men’s soccer
team had a strong showing this
week, notching two victories to
improve its record to 3-0 and
poise itself for the upcoming
ODAC season.

The Generals traveled to
Ferrum College on Tuesday.
W&L got off to a quick start and

, never looked back.

Junior forward Brian Pirkle
opened the scoring just ten min-
utes into the game off a pass from
junior midﬁelder and fellow cap-
tain Justin Mygatt.

The Generals widened their
lead when Pirkle fed senior
midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr who
found the back of the net for a 2-
0 lead. It would be all the scoring
that W&L would need.

Junior Chris Carlson and
sophomore Michael Stanton
combined for the shutout in goal
with a total of four saves. It was
clear that the Generals dominated
from the opening minute out
shooting Fenum 25-7.

The Generals were sup-
posed to travel to Washington
D.C. last Friday to face Catholic
University but thanks to Hurri-
cane Isabel the game was re-
scheduled to Saturday aﬂemoon
in Lexington.

The Generals were able to
open their home season on their
brand new ﬁeld .a little early and
an enthusiastic home crowd
greeted them.

Once again, W&L got off to
a very quick start as Pirkle scored
just 3:35 into the game off a feed
from Mygatt. Pirkle extended the
lead with an unassisted goal
twenty minutes into the first half.

The Generals received an-
other insurance goal from Mygatt
on an assist from freshman for-
ward Sandy Piracci.

The Cardinals scored a
meaningless goal at the end of
the second half to avoid the shut-
out and close the scoring at 3-1.

The Generals controlled

nearly every facet of the game,
attacking loose balls and out
shooting the Cardinals 25-3, forc-
ing Carlson and Stanton to only
make a save apiece.

W&L is off to its beststart
since the 2000 team began the
season with seven wins. That
team was loaded with talented,
experienced players en route to a
19-2 record, winning the ODAC
championship and reaching the
second round of the NCAA tour-
nament.

This team has a total of ﬁve
juniors and only one senior and
was picked to ﬁnish ﬁlth out of
ten teams in the preseason
ODAC poll.

One of those upperclass-
men, junior midﬁelder Josh Grahe,
believes this team has experi-
enced great success because “we
have great chemistry and have
really come together offen-
sively.”

Clearly, the offense has
clicked as the Generals have been
pelting goalies with almost
twenty shots a game and control-
ling the ball, putting minimal pres-
sure on their defense. V

The Generals have also got-
ten the most out of their few up-
perclassmen. Pirkle, Stoehr and
Mygatt have combined to tally
18 of the Generals 19 total points.

Pirkle, in particular, has been
on ﬁre. The local product has four
goals and an assist on the year
and has scored the game winner
in ever game.

The defense has also been
solid, allowing just‘ two goals in
three games and is also led by a
pair of juniors in Co-captain Pe-
ter Miller and Carlson, who have
led an otherwise young and in-
experienced group.

Grahe added, “This is just
where we wanted to be heading
into the ODAC season.”

Hopefully the Generals can
continue their streak with the
stakes even higher as they open
their ODAC schedule with a home
game this Wednesday against
Eastern Mennonite.

: FILE PHOTO

Escape. Senior quarterback Peter Dean ﬁghts a sack. Dean was only sacked twice in Saturday’s game.

BY ALLISON PERRY
sPORTs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Men’s football team fell to Sewanee
37-13 in a non-conference match-up on Saturday in Tennessee.

On WLUR 91.5, Coach Frank Miriello commented on
Sewanee freshman quarterback Wes Satterﬁeld. Miriello said
Satterﬁeld has a lot of height and can pass pretty well.

But Satterﬁeld did more running on" Saturday than passing,
rushing for 114 yards and 3 touchdowns. He also completed 10
out of 15 passes for a total of 91 yards.

Sewanee got on the board ﬁrst when senior running back
Justin Askew ran 27 yards for a touchdown early in the ﬁrst quar-
ter. Sophomore kicker Jake Roberts made the extra point to give
the Tigers a 7-0 lead.

Washington and Lee senior quarterback Peter Dean came
back in the middle of the second quarter with a one yard touch-
down run to put the score at 7-6.

Satterﬁeld rushed for another touchdown three minutes
later, but the kick for the extra point failed. On the ensuing drive,
Sewanee freshman Harlan Hickerson recovered a Washington and
Lee fumble. Roberts kicked a 47 yard ﬁeld goal to put the score at
16-6.

Washington and Lee senior Ted Maﬂitt then picked up a
Sewanee fumble with 51 seconds left in the half to give the Gener-
als the ball within the 10 yard line. But the turning point in the

game came when Sewanee sophomore comerback, Mike Glanton,
intercepted Dean’s pass in the ﬂat, running 98 yards for the touch-
down as time expired. Roberts’ kick was good, and instead of seeing
their lead cut, the Tigers went into the half leading 23-6.

With 5:03 leﬂ in the third quarter, Washington and Lee
sophomore wide receiver Clark Kensinger caught a 22 yard pass from
Dean to score the ﬁnal touchdown for the Generals. Freshman kicker
Ben Long made the extra point.

Satterﬁeld rushed for two more touchdowns, one of them
being a 43 yard run. Roberts made the kick each time. Sewanee junior
Deon Carter intercepted a Dean pass with about eleven minutes left
in the game, ending a W&L scoring drive and setting up the Tigers’
ﬁnal touchdown. .

Dean passed for 101 yards, completing 10 out of 18 attempts
and one touchdown. He ran the ball in for the other touchdown and
threw two interceptions.

Freshman running back Richard Garland led the Generals in
rushing with 39 yards. Junior Chris Cararnore rushed for 33 yards.
For the defense, junior linebacker Lloyd Wilson recorded 12 tackles.

For the Tigers’ defense, senior Alex Cain had two sacks.

The Generals will play Centre in a non-ODAC game next
Saturday, September 27 at 1:00 at home on Wilson Field.

Senior captain Scott Kucinski thinks the team can keep a
positive attitude and start fresh this week.

“We hope to get things rolling in the ODAC,” Kucinski
said. “Hopefully things will be better when we start playing those
games.”

SCHEDULE

-8:45

Tuesday, September 23
Golf hosts Buck Leslie Invitational-

Wornens soccer at Hollins- -4:30
Volleyball vs. Randolph-Macon
Womans College--6:30

-44:00

Wednesday, September 24

Mens soccer vs. Eastern Mennonite-

Field Hockey at Sweet Briar--TBA

-11:00

-3:00

TBA

Saturday, September 27
Men's soccer vs. Hampden-Sydney-
Women's soccer at M. Washington-

Football vs. Centre- -1 :00
Volleyball at Emory- - 1 1 :30
Women's tennis at Rolex Regional - —

Sunday, September 28

Women's soccer vs. Mary Baldwin-
-2:00

Women's tennis at Rolex Regional-
- TBA

 

 

. spectively.

  

PAGE 6 S ‘.=zE*.lL“.-2:-'5‘: i.rl1‘:~:=.

PORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003

Volleyball improves
to 7-0, 3-0 in ODAC

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee volleyball team im-
proved its record to 7-0 overall and 3-0 in the
ODAC this week. The Generals defeated Sweet
Briar 3-0, Emory and Henry 3-0, and Eastern Men-
nonite 3-0.

Washington and Lee knocked off Sweet
Briar on the road Tuesday in sets of 30-16, 30-19,
and 30-21.

Junior Michelle Chastain had eleven kills
and seven digs. Junior Emily Wolﬁng posted eight
kills and eight digs. Sophomores Ashleigh Overly
and Christine Gladysz had nine kills and 18 assists,
respectively.

On Thursday, the Generals defeated
Emory and Henry with game scores of 30-18, 30-19,
and 30-21 .

Chastain posted 14 kills and eight digs.
Sophomore Susan Gaillard had ten kills. Wolfmg
notched nine kills and nine digs. Gladysz also had
nine digs and 43 assists.

Washington and Lee also beat Eastern
Mennonite on Saturday with sets of 30-20, 30-15,
and 30-21 .

Chastain had 16 kills and nine digs.
Gladysz and sophomore Laura Byme posted seven
kills and ten digs, and 24 assists and ten digs, re-

The Generals play again on Tuesday at
6:30 p.m. in Warner Center against Randolph-Ma-
con Woman’s College.

THE LONG LOST ARM. Sophomore Christine Gladysz goes up for a hit.

Golf to host Buck

Leslie Memorial Tournament

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee golf team placed ninth in the
Randolph-Macon Ted Keller Invitational last Monday and
Tuesday.

Twelve teams competed in the two day event held
at Hunting Hawk Golf Club in Glen Allen, Virginia.

Bridgewater won the tournament with a total team
score of 614.

Placing behind Bridgewater were Christopher
Newport at 622, Lynchburg at 623, Ferrum at 624, Hampden-
Sydney at 624, Wesley at 627, Roanoke at 627, Randolph-
Macon “A” at 631, Washington and Lee at 637, Randolph-
Macon “B” at 643, Virginia Wesleyan at 647, and Appren-
tice School at 663.

Freshman Ted Williams led in scoring for the Gener-
als with a combined score of 155. He shot a 71 on Monday

and an 84 on Tuesday. Williams tied for fourteenth place.

Junior captain Ged Johnson tied for seventeenth place
with a total score of 157. He shot an 80 on Monday and a 77

on Tuesday.

The Generals host the Buck Leslie Memorial Tournament
at Lexington Golf and Country Club today and tomorrow.

Teams teed off starting at 8:45 this morning.

Lexington Golf and Country Club has been the Washing-

ton and Lee team course for over 60 years.

In 1969, the course was redesigned by Ellis Maples,
who designed the the Number Five course at Pinehurts Re-

sort.
The course is a par 71 and 6,444 yards in length.

Field Hockey knocks off
Roanoke 2-1 in overtime at home game

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey team defeated
Roanoke 2-1 in overtime on Wednesday.

Senior forward Kelly Tatfe scored the winning goal for
the generals with an assist from sophomore Jane Beall.

The Maroons (4-1 overrall, 2-1 in the ODAC) led 1-0
for the first half. But junior forward Kristen Brown tied the
game for the Generals. Brown was assisted by sophomore
defender Katharine Lester.

Sophomores Courtney Harrison and Elise Gelinas

shared the goal for Washington and Lee. Harrison made 2

saves, and Gelinas made 5 saves.

Junior Beth Lichty made 9 saves as goal keeper for

Roanoke.
The Generals led in shots, 13-12.

Washington and Lee was scheduled to play Christo-
pher Newport on the road, but the game was postponed
due to Hurricane Isabel. No date has been set for the

game.

The ﬁeld hockey team travels to Sweet Briar on Wednes-

day, September 24. Game time is TBA.

WANNA WRITE FOR PHI SPORTS?
EMAIL PERRYAM@ WLU.EDU

This week's golf etiquette tip:

On the green, don't walk in a playing partner's line!

 

Soil Trips, tam (ash, Go ﬂee!
How timing Gn~(ampus Reps

Call for group discounts

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS
ALL THE FUN 8: ALL THE PROTECTION
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE

GUARANTEED BEST BUY

1 FREE TRIP FOR EVERY 10 PAID
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
MAKE YOUR SPRING BREAK EXXTREME

EXXTREME VACATIONS,

INC.
1-800-336-2260

3-300-648-4849 / www.st:‘t:avcL¢om

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie
in an
international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
www.triplenine.org

For Rent
-- Parents/Alumni --

Restored and modernized log cabin on 22 ac. in
mountains 15 min west of Lexington. 2 BR/2BA
-- Sleeps 6.

Avail wkly or ntly w/3 nt. min.

Call (804)355-0002 ‘

Rugby eam looks 
forward oseason .

BY CAMERON GARNER .
SPORTS WRITER

When asked about the upcoming season for the Washington and Lee Minks
Rugby team, Chad “look at this picture of me and Randy Moss. . .hey that doesn’t
look like Randy Moss. . . yes it does!” Lewis said: we’re fast and we’re tough. . .we’re
TIG .”

George “ask me about your rash” Craﬁ seconded Lewis’ remarks by saying:
“we are 2-0, we killed both teams we’ve played so far, and I’m nasty.” Rugby, a sport

‘too often overlooked at W&L, has quietly been one of our most successful pro- V

grams each fall.

Amix of football and soccer, Rugby requires a level of endurance seldom seen
on the other sports ﬁelds due to continuous play, hard hits, and limited substitu-
tions. The offense moves downﬁeld attempting to score a “try” (touchdown) worth
ﬁve points and the ensuing kick worth two.

The Minks have scored their share this year, thanks in part to the running of
Duffy, Woodward, and Wols, outscoring their opponents by a combined 74 points.

Craft highlights the team’s early successes by saying “seriously, I’m nasty.”

With fellow captain John Schaufele, and President Ryan Duﬁy, the Minks can ‘
back George ’s comments up.

Mark “the Godfather” Woodward, an outside center and all-around sharp
dresser, is looking forward to another great season after helping the Minks beat
VMI on their Parade grounds for the ﬁrst time in, well, a “long time” says Craﬁ.

Jock “the ﬂippin’ foreigner” Wols brings his slick South African lingo and
board shorts to the pitch every day. Rory Dowling, the team’s ﬂy half, has adjusted
to his new position well and now anchors the Minks’ back line.

These are a few names in what Woodward calls “a very balanced team.”

The Minks toy with other teams’ emotions every Saturday at nearby Highland 1'
Bell Middle School stadium, better known as “the Larnbaugh of Lexington,” or
“right next to the playground.” A trip to this Rugby Mecca should be on everyone’s
list of things to do on a Saturday right after Waffle House and before naptirne.

So come watch the Minks and support the most underrated team on campus. "1
L
I
.1
 W  fair ,
A
k
;.
Q

RIIGHT. The rugby team’s sense of humor makes itself known on their now infamous

shirts worn for freshman move-in last year. y.

Women’s at

cross country wins,   .

men finish second

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee women’s cross country team took ﬁrst place out of
ten teams in the Roanoke Invitational on Saturday. The men’s team ﬁnished sec-
ond.

Freshman Tippens Stone led the women’s team with a time of 20: 1 1 .5, ﬁnishing
second overall.

Junior Steve Chambers led the men with a time of 27:57.8, ﬁnishing third overall.
SeniorAndy Schorr ﬁnished fourth with a time of 28:05.6. A

In the women’s race, the Generals ﬁnished with 45 points. Following Washing-
ton and Lee were Juniata with 57 points, Roanoke with 72, Southern Virginia with
1 14, King with 164, Shepherd with 185, Hollins with 190, Ferrum with 204, Mary
Baldwin with 232, and Greensboro with 236. )_

Roanoke ﬁnished ﬁrst with 22 points in the men’s race. Coming in behind
Roanoke were Washington and Lee with 59 points, Juniata with 86, Eastern Menno-
nite with 99, Ferrum with 146, Greensboro with 157, Southern Virginia with 165, and
King with 214.

Both the women’s and men’s team race again on Saturday, October 4 at 10:15 >
a.m. at the Dickinson Invitational. ‘

 

 

 

Tee R§i‘\lG""T{.lt\"E Pet

PAGE 7

RTS

Dust up in the desert:

As far as W&L seniors are
concerned, the Palms is the only
bar in town. Why don ’t we hear
more people asking, “Are you
going to the Mirage tonight? ” Is
the Palms the default bar for
good reason or does the Mirage

T“ THE DISH
CAROLYN DUFFY ‘O5

Palms vs. The Mirage

    

deserve a chance? More stu-
dents than you might think have
already darkened the doorways
of the Mirage, and for good rea-
son.

True, the Palms has been
here forever; it has earned its
solid reputation, and moreover
it has become a W&L tradition-
a senior Mecca. Its cool to go
to the Palms for a few drinks. It
is very not cool to hang out at
the Mirage. '

I stopped by the Mirage
last week to talk food with Tony,
chef/owner of the restaurant,
which opened last October, but
the conversation quickly shifted
to the students rather than the
menu. If you were ever uncer-
tain as to whether or not students
would feel as welcome there as
they do at the Palms, don ’t be.
Tony wishes more students
would frequent his bar, noting
the various ways in which he
caters to them and attempts to
provide a student-ﬁiendbz atmo-
sphere.

Thursday is Students’ Night,
featuring draft specials and a
chance to bring your own CD is
to play in the jukebox—as loud
as you want. T hat’s just one
thing that Tony claims separates
them from the Palms. “It is a com-
pletely different» atmosphere.-
We ‘re not afraid to turn the juke-
box up, and theres plenty of
room to move around and
breathe here, ” he explains, refer-
ring to the complaints he receives
(mostly from law students) that
the Palms is too hot and too
crowded.

A recent remodeling of the
restaurant left it with a new bar
area and carpeting (you might
not even recognize the place) as
well as plenty of entertainment——
pool tables, dart boards, and a

foosball table. The Mirage is es-
pecially proud of its large dance
ﬂoor, and while I have yet to ex-

   

JE

Whats that I see? Lexington’s bars have much to diér. Carolyn asks

more students to try the Mirage.

perience it, a DJ and Karaoke ev-
ery Thursday, Friday and Satur-
day night sounds like quite an
opportunity to scope out the lo-
cal talent.

And the food? Very rea-
sonably priced, the Mirage
specializes in “late night
munchies ” and appetizers, best
exempliﬁed in the Munchie
Basket which -includes cheeses
sticks, onion rings, fried mush-
rooms, poppers, chicken ten-
ders, and dips. It feeds four for
only $9.95. Tony ’s charbroiled
burgers are also a favorite—
bacon cheese or mushroom
with Swiss. But the highlight
of the menu is the nightly spe-
cial: a 10 oz. ribeye dinner that
includes baked potato, salad,
and a vegetable for only $6. 99.
If you ‘re only out for drinks,
head for the bar and ask Patsy
Tony ’s wife and the Mirage’s
bartender; to make you one of
her specialties, a Bahama
Mama or a Blue Motorcycle.

Still afraid the place will be
overrun with locals? Tony has
no qualms about expressing his
opinion that the locals are

“troublemakers” and that he
throws many of them out by the
end of the night, wishing his bar
would be ﬁlled with students in-
stead (is it because we spend
more on drinks or because he
likes usthat much ?).

If you haven ’t already,
check it out. Maybe you really
will be the only Washington and
Lee student there, maybe it will
be too loud, maybe you won ’t
be in the mood for karaoke, and
maybe you ’ll miss the popcorn
at the Palms. The Mirage may
not be for everyone, but then
again, it could become an alter-
native at least. If you do happen
to try it out, email me at
du[fyc@wlu.edu and let me
know what you think. It could
become Lexington ’s newest hot
spot. From what] ’ve heard, its
already on its way there.

& LIFE

MEGAN MORGAN
A1213 & IIFE EDITOR
EMAI1; MORGANMB@WIU.EDU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003

Students witness bornbing in Spain

BY STEVE LAMB
STAFF WRm«:R

Every year, thousands of United States
college students travel to Europe and other
nations around the world to study abroad.
This past summer, three Washington and Lee
students ﬂew to Spain to study in the south-
eastern coastal town ofAlicante, a popular
destination among foreign tourists.

George Singeltary, Carli Hague, and Beth
LeBlance arrived in Spain expecting to spend
six weeks immersed in Spanish culture, lan-
guage, and Mediterranean sunshineAccord-
ing to George Singeltary, their first four weeks
at the Estudio Sampere passed smoothly with
only the slightest barriers typical to foreign
travel, such as lost luggage.

On Tuesday July, 22 at approximately
twelve noon a bomb exploded in a hotel ad-
joining one of the Estudio Sampereis main
class buildings.At the time, Carli, George, and
Beth were in a classroom a building down

from where the bomb was detonated. George
Singletary recalls that he knew immediately
that a bomb had gone oﬁ’. “All of a sudden
there was ahuge blast, and I could tell it was
a bomb right away. ”T he bomb blew open the
classroom door leaving both Carli and George
with minor cuts. '

From the student is perspective, the most

frightening moment of the attack occurred when
several wounded students from classrooms
closer to actual blast ran into room in search of
help. At this point, the Washington and Lee stu-
dents realized that people had been severely
wounded and possible killed. Eventually, emer-
gency personnel arrived and led the students
outside to safety and medical treatment.

The attack at the Estudio Sampere was car-
ried out by a terrorist group known as the
“ETA ”, or Basque Fatherland and Liberty The
“ETA ” relies on terror as the principle weapon
in its drive to gain political independence from
Spain for the Basque region; the mountainous
area that lies on the border between Spain and
France. The group targets mostly Spanish gov-
ernment buildings, but also concentrates attacks
on densely populated tourist centers hoping to
deter tourism, a key source of income for much
of Spain.

Growing resentment towards citizens of the
United States and recent increases in global ter-
rorism have many students seriously reconsid-
ering studying abroad. While one must always
weight the pros and cons of such a decision,
it ’s important to remember that to live in fear is
in many ways not to live at all. In the end, George
ended up being the only W&L student to stay
and complete the six week course. He says “I
consider the whole situation a positive, life-
changing experience. ”

Rounders: it ain ’t just cards

BY IAN D1cK1NsoN
STAFF \WRITER

This weeks ’film review is to be dedi-
cated to a movie that I have found a dis-
turbing number ofpeople know nothing
about. While some may be
enlightened to the exhila-
rating‘ game of Texas
Hold’em, many tilt their
heads to the side and ask
what first person shooter
game I am babbling about
when I mention this game
ofpoker kings.

Texas Hold ’em truly is
the game ofkings. This is
no blackjack table you are
sitting at,‘ when you sit
down to play Texas
Hold’em, you are dealing
with pros. There are people
who make their living en-
tirely offofthis game.

"Rounders" is one of the first, if not
the best, movies dealing with the subject
ofpoker. Specifically the game of Texas
Hold’em. Starring A—list actors such as
Matt Damon, Edward Norton, and John
Malkovich, this is a movie that should not
pass you by.

Damon, cast as the lead, lays out can-
vincing role as a Law student who plays
poker on the side or is "rounding ” to pay

W&L CampusAA Meeting

   

TMPLIMENTS OF ROUNDERSMOVIE

for law school. However in the beginning
scene oftheﬁlm, he gets greedy and loses it
all to the Russian Casino owner “Teddy KGB, ”
a role brilliantly played by John Malkovich.
The movie resumes ayear later when Damon is
long time friend "Worm ”, played by Edward
Norton, gets released from
jail.

Norton ’s character is the
synthesis ofeveryfatalﬂaw
in a Poker player: he cheats
at every game, is dishonest,
steals, and yet director John
Dahl makes sure the audience
knows why Damon ’s charac-
ter considers Worm his best
friend. Worm is the Catalyst
that drags Damon is now

“Straight” character back into
the dark world afPoker, and
that is when the trouble be-
gins.

This movie should be
mandatory viewingfor allpledges and have
aplace reservedfor it in everyfrats movie
collection. Not only does it teach the viewer
how to play the game Texas Hold ’em, but it
is highly entertaining, suspenseful, and

. masterfully executed as far as film is con-

cerned. All this, and it still teaches impor-
tant life lessons. “Matt Damon: Listen,
here ’s the thing. Ifyou can ’t spot the sucker
in the ﬁrst half hour at the table, then you
ARE the sucker.

National program aim to reduce rape

7 :00 in Fairfax Lounge
October 1st, 2003

Vrginia Capital Semester

Mttke thcge msast of ‘y‘()LtI‘ .~:m:~.;.; .‘_~’§€.1’1"tt’.§£{t:3t‘ 3

Maketlwnwtafymwspritzgscmestetwithan
exciting intemshigz. chalteagnfng college 
ia:te:esIiﬁ99'~*95¥$i>eaiarsa2r6a§tt:9dra:naof
tﬁrgiréa politics.

Experiawe Virginia‘s capita: city during the
»e.xr:itacwnt of a  sassian white oamiwing
yeursaaﬁesanafxsﬁ-tine hasisttsrwglzcosnse
wast: atvitgine conmmvaahh University - am:
cam a 83.080 tntemshizz stipend.

For more inlocmation and application:

- xwm.vcu.edn!mpiraisan>esten

0 Vngixﬁa Capitai Semester, Sctmoi of Gavemment
396 Public Affaits, 9.0. Box 842023. tlirgiria
Cmmaoénweaim Unévetsétv. Riclmmd. VA

3328»!-2028: 0:

~ Contact Profassarﬂatm l~iamb:ickat
M41828-SW, W5) 828-t5‘)‘5or
vacapi2afsetn®veu.edu.

Application deatiﬁm is Oct. 35. 21183.

M nzﬁwyuhvbﬁkuﬁa twin rind?

FROM STAFF REPORTS

On Tuesday, Sep-
tember 23rd, local rape
centers and thousands
ofvolunteers across the
country will host Get
Carded 2003, a cam-
paign to raise aware-
ness and help prevent
sexual assault.

Volunteers will be at
more than 700 college
campuses across the
nation passing out

sexual assault informa-
tion packets and wallet
size hotline cards con-
taining the National
Sexual Assault
Hotline’s phone num-
ber as well as informa-
tion about their free
counseling services.
Volunteers will also pro-
vide information sheets
with tips on how to re-
duce the risk ofbecom—
ing a victim of sexual
assault.

The Get Card 2003
campaign focuses on
college students be-
cause they are at such
an increased risk ofbe-
ing a victim of sexual
assault. People age six-
teen to twenty four are
three times more likely
than any other age
group of becoming a
victim ofsexual assault
and 80% of all sexual
assault victims are un-
der thirty years ofage.

GotDirty Clothes?

University
Cleaners

Great Service
F irst-Rate Quality

7North Jeﬂerson Street

463-3622

0 then get

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

 

 

PAGE 8

  

TE-IE RiNt‘§-TUM Prrr.

THE AST ORD

MEGANMORGAN
AKIS&LIPEEDl’IOR

FMA1I;MoRGANMB@wIIIHm

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003

Absolut Fratlord reveals ten best theme parties

I’ve decided recently that expressing my
opinion on heated university issues is bad news.
I don’t think I have the grace or ability to rea-
sonably express myself in a way that is market-
able to the entire student body. To be sure, many

people have reacted favorably to
my more serious articles, but there .
have also been a few with more
negative responses. So, in an ef-
fort to avoid receiving negative
written responses that are actually longer than
the length of my original article, I’m going to

  

. cool it for awhile, and return to truly fratty top-

ics. If you can’t stand the heat, get out of the
kitchen I guess.

Thus, this change-of-pace article is dedi-
cated to everyone who wallowed around in the
KA mud pit on Saturday. Here it is, the Tim
Smith list of W&L’s Top Ten Theme Parties, for
fraternities.

10) Old South (KA) — In a politically-correct world,
somehow Mother Alpha gets away with this clas-
sic Antebellum Formal. Whether this leaves you
feeling disturbed, offended‘ or nostalgic, you

‘ have to admit they look darn spiffy in those wool

grays. Especially that Denbow fella, despite be-
ing the reluctant Southerner he is.

9) Chi Psi Late Night (Chi Psi) — Somehow, Chi
Psi manages to get a bad rap for one of the most
crucially consistent party spots on campus.
Where would we be without late night?? We’d
certainly be getting a lot more sleep, which would
be a total waste of time. So whether you think
they’re oddball creatures of the night or not,
respect them for providing entertainment well
into the morning. Tully, Brooksy, and all the
other Psichotics — I salute you.

8) Italian Wedding (PiKA) — The only mixer on the
list, Italian Wedding is easily the most creative mixer
in the W&L universe. It’s hilarious to watch the
Pikas and Chi-Os attempt to look as Italian as pos-
sible — Drew Catanese, of course, does not have to
do much to prepare. Then as they attempt to drink
like Italians, you have the makings of a great mixer.

ABSOLUT FRATLORD_
TIM SMITH ‘04

7) Redneck Ball (K-Sig) —As a West Virginian, I
must admit that this is a true favorite. Nothing
reminds me of home like a busted-up car on cin-
der blocks, being demolished by drunken frat
boys with sledgehammers. Beautiful and scary
in the same breath. There are
other good redneck parties out
there, but Kappa Sig’s
Redneck Ball is the redneckest
of em all.

6) Tropical (Lambda Chi) — Blatant self promo-
tion?? Perhaps. But make no mistake — Lambda
Chi’s Tropical party is certainly in the upper-
echelon of W&L’s many beach parties. Where
else can you get a 3-story tropical waterfall, a
genuine lawn volcano, and the unique experi-
ence of watching sorority girls swallow goldﬁsh
for T-shirts (not to mention Mark F ranceski swal-
lowing 21 goldﬁsh for no T-shirt). Come by this
Friday, and maybe this particular Frat Lord will
have a ﬁsh saved just for you.

5) Halloween Party (the Big Four) — A lot, of
people disagree that a Big Four even exists. This
is an often-debated topic to be sure. To me, it’s
a moot point, as long as the Halloween Party
stays around. Certainly the greatest Wednes-
day night event, and probably the only chance
you’ll get to see some of the W&L “elites”
dressed up in full hilarious costumes.

4) Derby Days (SigmaChi) — Perhaps this award
should go to the Girls of Derby Days, who put
it all on the line for the sake of pure competi-
tion. Though recent Derby Days have been
more tame, there have certainly times when the
girls have caused somejaws to drop (Long Live
the senior Thetas). Yet even without the con-
tribution of W&L’s ﬁnest ladies, the boys from
Sigma Chi know how to kick off Spring Term in
style — with a ridiculous week long party. Amen.

3) Foxﬁeld — If you’ve never been, then you just
don’t understand what the hubbub is about. Rest
assured, Fox Field races is one of the greatest
parties you’ll ever go to —where else can you set

Earn degree in lingerie at Intimate U.

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

As students headed back
to Washington and Lee this
September, they were greeted
by a new addition to the Lex-

ington community. On June 9th,
Rick and Tracy Lackey opened
Intimate U, a new store on
Nelson Street which sells un-
dergarments and lingerie.

The plans for Intimate U
have been in the works for

many years. Tracy Lackey, a

‘ Lexington native, has always

felt that the town needed a lin-
gerie store. She decided that if
she was tired of driving to
Charlottesville or Roanoke to
buy undergarments than there

‘)

up bars in the middle of a big ﬁeld, just to watch
UVA girls clean you out in 20 minutes? And for
those of your W&L nostalgics, Fox Field is a great
way to relive those classic tailgate parties of old.

2) KA’s Beach Party (KA) — KA gets the #2 spot
here, simply because I’m typing this article with
painful scrapes all over my body. The Beach Party
has suffered in years past, due to drought and
other unfortunate interferences. But without a
doubt, Saturday’s party was probably the craziest
thing I’ve seen at W&L in my tenure. That mudslide
was unbelievable, but not quite so ridiculous as
watching girls hose eachother off time after time.
Mercy, 1 love this school.

FILE PHOTO
SHE LOVES T0 GROOVE. Theta alumnae shake their groove thang at “Tacky Prom,” not a top—ten theme party.

1) Buffalo Creek — It’s only appropriate that a
schoolwide party like Buffalo Creek should get
the number one spot on the list. Itis perhaps
the last hurrah of every school year — the Ulti-
mate Spring Term celebration. Nothing
screams fratty like sitting around ﬁres with
burned couches, chairs, and the occasional
carﬁre. And since it’s usually the last big
event of the school year, its tough to beat.
We’ve got a long time and many parties to go
before we get there — not to mention tons of
great parties that didn’t make this list. So don’t
be a square — get out there and enjoy your-
self. Otherwise you won’t know what you’re
missing. '

GIVIN’ ‘EM WHAT THEY WANT

Happy Birthday to our favorite Editorial Director

 

9 On Friday, it’s Katie HoWell’s
turn to wiiiiiiun!

JB, KW, EEJ, MM, AP, CA, BTK, KG & the rest of the PICA crew

must be others that shared her
sentiments. She and her hus-
band began brainstorming ideas
for the store. After nine years
of talking about it, they began
to make concrete plans for the
sotre’s opening oa year and a
half ago.

While Intimate U has made
an effort to reach out to the col-
lege community through ges-
tures such as sending ﬂowers
to the sororities, the store ca-
ters to all ages and sizes. While
some of the items are designed
for younger women, there are
also items that are speciﬁcally
target older women, In addition,
the store carries garments in all
sizes from petite to voluptuous.

All the items in the store are
selected by Tracy from the linge-
rie market in New York. She says
that at market she “looks for lines
that are carried in larger cities that
we don’t have access to in Lex-
ington” She stresses, however,
that she is new to the lingerie
market and therefore is always
looking for feedback and sugges-
tions from her customers.

Love,

4

of Snapple.

You know what we need. Coors Original Banquet Beer isn’t only our favorite——— it must tempt the
freshmen residents of Graham-Lees dormitory as well. Recently, but not recently enough, this delivery
truck provided an incongruous photo opportunity when DOD Distributing made a beer run through
MicroLex. No doubt, the framers of the ballyhooed alcohol policy weren’t happy with the advertising.
Freshmen who stormed the truck quickly learned the vehicle was delivering nothing more than bottles

FI PHOTO

HITS

Q The Buffalo Bills will win the
Super Bowl this year.

Q Tom McClintock is the best
candidate running to replace
Gary Davis as governor of Cali-
fomia.

Q Cheers to President and
Mrs. Burish for picking up trash
as they walk around campus.

Q The Black Dog burger at the
cafe of the same name is delicious.

Q The stairway from the Com-
mons Ampitheater to the Dell is
great going down; not so fun

going up.

Q Lambda Chi threw a very
well-attended party on Friday.

Q Hurray for the Co-op open-
ing the second register for ex-
tended hours. Service is much
faster.

Q Don’t forget to attend the
Mock Convention Delegate Fair
in the Doremus Gymnasium,
Wednesday 10-4.

Q During the Board of Trust-
ees Fall Meeting, October 23-25,
organize a protest, a demonstra-
tion, or a sit-in to let them know
Spring Term is non-negotiable.

(I) The rock climbing wall at the
Commons looked damn phallic.

Q Mimi Elrod’s cats should be
welcomed back into Lee House.

Q Hunan Garden delivers Chi-
nese food and volcanoes!

(I) Only 93% of SVU students
are Mormon. The rest, aren’t.

Q The cubicles in the Com-
mons are simply not sufficient for
most campus organizations.

Q After they lost power, the
residents of the Parkview threw
one kickin’ Hurricane Party last
Thursday night.

Q E-mail your anonymous
Quick Hits to phi@wlu.edu.

.-

 

