/-itch
€375,755
9355::
v- I-.06
.wf,,.[l

C-$

   

SHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

~RViANG-TUM

.C;Zl I \
VOLUME
MONDAY, OCIOBER 27, 2003

PHI

I The Iindeni voice of Washington and Lee University since 789] _
Rector: fate of Spring Term may be decided In February

Even though, ‘Both calendars can work successfully’ the decision will be a purely ﬁnancial because that is the Board’s ‘major obligation’ to the school.

BY KYLE WAss AND KATHERINE SHELL
ASSISTANT EDITOR AND STAFF WRITER

The Board of Trustees may decide the fate of Spring Term as
early as February. At this weekend’s board meeting, Spring Term
was among the topics discussed.

After seven years on the Board of Trustees at Washington and
Lee, newly elected and newly swom-in rector Philip W. Norwood of
Charlotte, North Carolina, has been heavily involved in the oversight
of many of the University’s major decisions, speciﬁcally construction
and renovation projects, as Chairman of the Capital Projects Commit-
tee.

Now, Norwood will help guide the board through the decision-
making process of the calendar controversy. This weekend, the Board
of Trustees discussed the two calendar proposals at their October 24
and 25 meeting.

While there was no plan to come to a resolution between the 12-
12-6 and 14-14 calendars at the Board of Trustees meeting this past
weekend, there was a two-hour private meeting held on Saturday
morning to primarily the financial implications of each calendar, al-
though N orwood assures that one of the main goals of all the Board’s
actions is continue “defming our [Washington and Lee’s] place in
American education.” The delay in the faculty vote by two and a
half weeks also delays the decision of the Board, though Norwood
acknowledges that there is “no reason to continue to prolong the
decision.”

The faculty vote results of October 13 showing an 80-79 favor of
the current calendar model and the Executive Comrnittee’s full sup-
port of the 12-12-6 calendar may inﬂuence the Board’s ﬁnal decision
on the calendar. Norwood said that he was not expecting the recent
faculty vote regarding the different calendars to be so close, and in
light of the results, the decision will be a hard one for the board to
make, especially since the board is fairly evenly split between mem-
bers who attended school at W&L under the 12-12-6 calendar, and
members who attended school here under the 14-14 calendar. Re-

garding this split, Norwood says that we know “both calendars can
work successfully.”

The two reports on the calendar proposals were presented to
the faculty on October 13, both of which “were intended to inform

, the community about the implications of the various calendars,

rather than advocate for a particular model,” according to Interim
Dean of the College Jeanine Stewart. The 12-12-6 proposal re-
viewed possibilities for improving the current calendar, while the
14-14 proposal discussed the advantages and disadvantages of
the 14-14 calendar. The proposals hadito take into consideration
the ﬁnancial burdens of both calendars, the unique characteris-
tics of Spring Term, and the abilities of each calendar to suit stu-
dent needs.

_ Since the board does not “approach [the calendar issue] with
the same emotional attachment” that the students do, the main
factor in the Board’s decision between calendars_ will be the finan-
cial burden of either choice, since ﬁnance is their “major obliga-
tion” to the school, according to Norwood. Provost Williams said
“the administration is presently preparing the best ﬁnancial pro-
jections we can make at the present time.”

Furthermore, Norwood said that the Board has “a commit-
ment to reducing the teaching load,” in order to compete with
our peer colleges and universities. Thus, the number of courses
each professor is required to teach will play a large role in the
decision. Norwood argues that, while the Board of Trustees
makes the decision, the fate of the calendar is really “in the hands
of the faculty.”

If a new calendar model is implemented, any changes will
probably take at least three years to be enacted and, “most likely,
no currently enrolled student will see any calendar changes,”
Dean Stewart said. Changes could be expected to take place by
the senior year of the class of 2008, next year’s incoming class.

The Board of Trustees will meet again in February 2004 and,
with “sufficient data,” they will be able to be more prepared to
decide on the fate of the calendar, said N orwood. Norwood noted
that the Board is “committed to resolving [this issue] early.”

Dedication. Rector Philip W Norwood delivers his speech at Friday’s
dedication of the Elrod Commons. Norwood will be helping to guide the
Trustees through the ‘decision-making process regarding the Spring Term.

SAB works to bring
entertainment options

CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

In addition to the typical fraternity
band party, there is a different type of
stud 1 organization that works to bring
musical acts and entertainment to cam-
pus. The Student Activities Board, or
SAB, is an organization focused solely
on bringing entertainment to the W&L
community throughout the course of the
year.

Numerous factors are involved in
choosing and getting enter-
tainment to campus. To begin
the process, members of the
board usually meet to brain-
storm possible acts.

While the SAB acknowl-
edges that student opinion is
valued, and that surveys and

A problem is
that many of us
are enormous
fans of the ‘jam

Virginia, and has also teamed up with
WLUR to help improve publicity. They
are also planning to allow more timefor
ticket sales, and are looking into op-
tions to sell alcohol at events.

“N on-mainstream bands tend to be
not well received by the students. How-
ever, I wish people would just come out
to see what the music is about before
they decide they don’t like it. We bring
in really talented artists, while they

many not be a familiar name to all, you .

are guaranteed a good time,” said SAB
publicity chair Lauren Pe-
ters.

Once a list of pos-
sible acts has been made,
the SAB then turns to their
booking agents for infor-
mation on pricing and
availability. Factors that

9
ballots have been used in the genre must be taken into account
past to gauge opinion, ﬁnal ALLAN GAIJS include when, where, and
selections are usually left to SAB MEMBER even if the act is touring,

the board. The board strives

to achieve diversity in acts

while also taking into consideration the
audience of the event.

In terms of bands, the SAB has spon-
sored two musical acts this year, Leftover
Salmon, and Karl Denson’s Tiny Uni-
verse. Although Leftover Salmon has
been a hit in the past, attendance was
down in comparison to previous years.

The Board attributed the low atten-
dance to a late venue change due to
weather. The Board considered Karl
Denson’s Tiny Universe during home-
coming weekend successful, with an es-
timated 550 people in attendance, and
over 600 tickets sold.

“I think they do a good job of bring-
ing recognized names to campus; how-
ever, I think that there could be a wider
variety of bands they bring, and that jam
bands are a little over done,” said Jared
Harrison.

Some current members of the board
feel that although they bring in good acts,
more needs to be done to promote the
diversity of entertainment.

“Everyone on the board is passion-
ate about music. However, a problem is
that many of us are enormous fans of the
“jam genre.” This does not necessarily
represent the tastes of the W&L student
body, so I hope to diversify some of the
musical acts we bring to campus,” said
SAB memberAllan Galis.

Besides working to diversify the mu-
sical acts they book, the board has other
plans for working to increase student at-
tendance and interest in events. The SAB
is working to publicize at more schools in

and how much it costs to
bring in the act.

“Often students suggest that the
SAB bring in bands that cost nearly
our entire budget or twice as much —
bands that are simply not possible.
We’ve even had requests for musicians
that aren’t even alive,” said SAB Co-
President Caroline Parker.

The SAB received $60,000 ﬁ'om the
Executive Committee during budget
hearings in October, thus making them
the most highly funded undergraduate
organization. Aside from revenue gen-
erated from ticket sales, funding for the
SAB comes solely from the EC.

The price to book an act can vary
greatly from event to event. For ex-
ample, Karl Denson’s Tiny Universe
cost approximately $18,000, excluding
production costs. The SAB contributed
over $30,000 to help bring George
Clinton to FD last spring. That marked
the first time that the SAB collaborated
with the FD committee to bring in en-
tertainment for the ball.

The basis for the EC’s support of
the SAB stems from the fact that they
contribute to many different campus ac-
tivities. The SAB not only sponsors
their own events, they also help fund
other clubs and organizations that are
looking to host entertainment events.

The SAB’s inﬂuence on campus
activities is not simply limited to musi-
cal acts. Just this year, the SAB spon-
sored The Second City comedy troupe,

as well as hypnotist Tom DeLuca.
The Executive Board of the SAB

is appointed by the EC.

UNVEILED

the ceremony.

Dedicated. “We are not just dedicating a building, but are re-dedicating the mission of this institution”,” said President Burr-ish
at the Dedication of the Elrod Commons last Friday. Dr. Mimi Elrod unveiled the porttaint of the late President Elrod during

Provost Boetsch takes position in Europe

PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
STAFF WRITER

Dr. Laurent Boetsch, former provost and acting president
of W&L, is now the chief academic ofﬁcer at the European
College of Liberal Arts (ECLA), and therefore will extend his
leave from Washington and Lee for another year.

Beginning July 1, 2004, Boetsch will assume the duties of
the dean of academic affairs for ECLA. ‘This is an opportunity
that I really wish to pursue, and I am grateful to the University
for giving me the time to do it,” said Boetsch in an email inter-
view, after stating “My heart is never far from W&L.”

“I visited there in August and was especially impressed
with the quality of instruction, its international nature and its
use of interdisciplinary teaching in focusing on the liberal arts,”
said Boetsch.

Cmrently, Boetsch is in Europe on sabbatical, primarily in
Italy and Spain. He will interact with ECLA while abroad, be-

ginning his new role on a part-time basis while on his current
sabbatical.

When asked to distinguish some difference between ECLA
and American liberal arts, Boetsch mentioned its overwhelm-
ingly international aspect. This four-year-old institution has an
incredibly diverse student body. VVrth only 80 students and 10
full time faculty, the school still represents over 20 different
nations. '

Boetsch named the youthful qualities of the school as
another attraction. “I think it has a future and I welcome the

opportunity to contribute to that future in any possible way,” _

he said.

The intense focus on liberal arts reveals another fascinat-
ing aspect of ECLA. No pre-professional sequences exist, and
its courses are taught in English. It’s mission is “to help stu-
dents develop a broad base of cultural knowledge within a
highly interactive and multicultural learning community.”

 

  

    

w J 5  .-,
i'y'.~’v."m.r«.= 1,.  .  
».,§‘ €.**,';_f:‘~3~Hﬁw*r:r

PAGEZ NOV 032003

'1t;t:R.ti's-'rr_s.‘«i';‘**.it

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

NEWS

New renovations now planned for freshmen dorms

While much of the campus has
been getting a face—life lately, there
are only minor renovations
planned for the dorms.

“Dean Watkins has done a
good job with replacement of old
furniture,” stated
Joe Grasso, Vice
President for Ad
ministration. He 
went on to say that
they want to con-
tinue to eventually replace the fur-
niture in all of the residence halls.

One major visual difference
upperclassmen may have noticed
is the interior paint scheme of
GilliamDorm. Each ﬂoorisadiﬂ"er-
ent color with large numbers
painted beside each door. Giasso
and Watkins picked out the paint
colors personally and plan on con-
tinuing the paint theme with the
other residence halls on campus.

Gilliam Dorm also received
bathroom improvements and ﬁre
safety improvements, including

  
   

Textbooks cheaper overseas, students

P ATRICIA BALLANTYNE tion than American students must pay.

STAFF WRITER

Textbooks cost signiﬁcantly more in America
Every semester, American college

than abroad.
students pay a hefty sum for their
books that greatly exceeds the
amount students in other coun-
tries pay. This large discrepancy
may exist because textbook pub-
lishers charge higher prices for
their books in America than in Eu-
rope and Asia.

Because of this dilemma,
some college students now or-
der textbooks from overseas
through the internet. Others
have established companies or
services to provide cheaper text-
books to more students. Two
students at Wilharns College, for
example,started
Bookffentralfcom toiisell cheaper

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN ‘O6 tim-

sprinkler system improvements,
over the summer. Baker and Davis
I both will be receiving the same im-
provements as Gilliam overtlie next
two summers. The administration
believes Graham—Lees to be in
good shape and
not in need of a
current renova-

After Baker

and Davis get

the fire safety improvements,

Woods Creek Apartments will be

next on the list. The Apartments

will be receiving the same improve-

ments as the dorms. Gaines, the

newest of the residence halls, is 12

years old and is not expected to
receive any changes.

The International House and
Fraternity Houses were completely
renovated during the Greek Re-
naissance of the late 1980s and
early 1990s. The Sorority Houses,
built in 2000, and the Casa
I-Iispanica and Outing Club House

are not scheduled for renovations
other than routine maintenance.

“The summer camps make it
hard to do renovations,” com-
mented Grasso. ‘They should deﬁ-
nitely be remodeled, tliey’re dirty.
Graham-Lees can still have char-
acter without being dirty. At the
same time, the rooms are unique,”
said Beth Iten. .

The administration ac-
knowledges that a major reno-
vation will be needed. The pre-
liminary planning stages on ma-
jor renovations or even a new
dorm are still at some unknown
point in the future.

When forming the Capital
Budget for 2004-05, the admin-
istration will be evaluating all
facilities. The Adminis-
tration would appreciate any
comments students have on the
subject of residence halls. Con-
tact Vice President of Adminis-
tration, Joe Grasso, at
jgrasso@wlu.edu.

Another more universal textbook, Molecular
Biology of the Cell by Bruce Alberts, reveals the

 

Llub LCAL, LlbCLl Dy DLULICLILB ll'l1L1l)l1‘
wide, can be found much cheaper
‘overseas. ‘ ’

same price difference, costing $110 on Amazon.com
but only £44.95 (about $76) on Amazon.co.uk.

Textbooks may be even cheaper
.n Asian countries such as
Fawain, Singapore, and Malay-
iia, ‘according to a recent New
York Times article, which also
iuoted a student explaining that
mly a small phrase indicating
‘international edition” distin-
guishes books bought overseas
:han those purchased in
America.
The October 21 New York Times
irticle, “Students find $100 Text-
)ooks Cost $50, Purchased Over-
teas,” highlights the vast cost dif-
ferences in textbooks, while also

, exposing a growing tension be-
. tweencollege bookstores and text-

textbooks from‘ abroad to’ students.
Ever1‘Amazon.com offers cheaper textbooks
through its British website. Mass Communication
Law: Cases and Comment by Donald M. Gillmor,
et al, costs $113.95 as a new book on Amazon.com,
while it costs only £45, about $76, on
Amazon.co.uk. This textbook focuses on United
States Supreme Court cases, so European students
can pay less to learn about American legal tradi-

‘’ book publishers.‘

Allan Adler, the lawyer for three of the
key textbook publishers, defended their pric-
ing procedures. The Times article described
Adler as saying “that foreign textbook prices
are pegged to the per capita income and eco-
nomic conditions of the destination coun-
tries.”

Publishing companies have attempted to

Refurbished. Gilliam Dorm is the first of the freshmen dorms to have received any type of renivation.
Gilliam’s bathrooms were improved and ﬁre safety precautions were taken over the summer. Gilliam is also
the ﬁrst of the dorms to be repainted.

begin buying online

place the blame of high prices on college book-
stores. Patricia Schroeder, the president and chief
executive ofﬁcer of the Association of American
Publishers, wrote a letter to the editor in The New
York Times in which she attacked college book-
store policies.

Her letter accused college stores of marking
up textbooks above the suggested 25-30 percent
amount for retail sale.

Meanwhile, the National Association for Col-
lege Stores (NACS) continues to criticize prac-
tices of publishers. The NACS has sent letters to
principal publishing companies requesting that
they stop unfair pricing. Laura N akoneczny, the
spokeswomen for the association, said in The
New York Times article, “It represents price-
gouging of the American public generally and
college students in particular.”

The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the National
Association of College Stores, Brian Cartier, de-
nies the Association of American Publishers’ ac-
cusa_tions._In' fact, he wrote another letter to the
editor in the Times, stating that “the issue of over-

’ seas textbooks is not about college bookstores.”

Cartier wrote that college book stores only mark
up textbooks an average of 22 percent.

“Regardless of where students buy text-
books in the U.S., even when purchased directly
from publishers online, the prices are higher than
those found overseas,” said Cartier in his letter
to the editor.

Earlier this year, in March, the National As-

sociation of College Stores drafted a resolution
resolved for “publishers to take immediate action
to stop this practice.”

In response to such high prices, some college
bookstores, such as the University Bookstore at
Purdue University and the University of Minne-
sota Bookstores, now purchase their books from
abroad. Others, however, find return policies and
shipping too complicated to shift to this method
of business.

Washington and Lee is a member of the Na-
tional Association of College Bookstores, and
the Manager of the University Bookstore, Hel-
ena Roller, is quite angry with publishers’ tac-
tics.

“I wonder why publishing companies are jeop-
ardizing relationships with bookstores who keep
them in business,” she said. “They’re biting the
hand that feeds them.”

When asked whether she might consider pur-
chasing books abroad, she said that the difﬁcul—
ties of return policies _an_d, shipping would make
this impossible. The University Bookstore already
orders from England" for some textbooks, but ac-
cording to Roller, “we have a terrible time when we
order from England.”

W&L’s University Bookstore raises the whole-
sale price the 25 percent that publishing compa-
nies suggest and does not add shipping into the
cost. The average W&L student still pays in the
$400 range for books every semester, according to
Roller.

 

Literary Reading to be held October 30

Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee University Review and
W&L’s Department of English will be co-sponsoring a literary read-
ing on October 30 to beneﬁt the Rockbridge Area Relief Association
Food Pantry.

Washington and Lee student writers will be conducting the read-
ing, which is to take place at 7p.m. in the theater of the Commons.
This event is similar to the national “Writers Harvest Readings” held
by Share Our Strength, a national organization for ﬁghting hunger.

There is no charge for the reading, but monetary donations for
the food pantry wil be accepted at the door or may be sent to Writers
Harvest, in care of Shenandoah at Washington and Lee’s Mattingly
House, 2 Lee Ave.

UVA Press publishes new book of Virginia poetry

The University of Virginia Press recently released Common
Wealth: Contemporary Poets of Virginia, edited by Sarah Kennedy of
Mary Baldwin College and R.T. Smith, editor of Shenandoah: The
Washington and Lee University Review. Common Wealth contains
work by 53 poets either native to or currently residing in Virginia.
The ports whose work was included have all published at least one
book of poetry.

Pulitzer Prize—winner Rita Dove, Henry Taylor and Charles Wright
are all renowned poets who have work published in Common Wealth.
Washingtonand Lee University Professors Emeriti Dabney Stuart
and Heather Ross Miller, alumna Lyrae Van Clief-Stefanon and former
W&L English department members Claudia Emerson and Cathryn
Hankla are all featured.

Smith conceived the project in the late 1990s after having been
part of a similar enterprise in Alabama. “It was a huge success, and I
knew that Virginia has far more nationally recognized poets working
today than Alabama does.

‘In other literary news...

Poet Natasha Tretliewey, who is praised by former U.S.
Poet Paureate Rita Dove, will be presenting a reading as a guest of
the Glasgow Endowment on Tuesday, November 11 at 4:30 p.m. in
the Elrod University Commons. Tretheway is the author of
Domestic Work, a collection about the life of African Americans ‘in
the South, and Bellog’s Ophellia, about the loves of a mixed race
prostitute in New Orleans, and is an associate professor at Emory
University.

EC Election to fill empty senior
representative position on Tuesday

SARAH MURRAY
STAFF warren

The Executive Committee
will hold an election on October
28"‘ to select a new representa-
tive for the class of 2004.

As a result of last week’s
resignation of EC Vice President
Kevin White, then-EC secretary
Anne Johansen stepped up to
the vice president position. The
secretary slot was filled by se-
nior representative Cullen
Carter. The e1ection’s winner will
be Carter’s replacement and
serve alongside senior John
Schaufele.

EC President Helen Hughes said

she does not think the newly
elected representative will have
a difficult time ﬁtting into the
Committee at this later date, as
the first-year law and freshman
representatives also take their
positions after the beginning of
the school year.

Not everyone thinks the
method is a good one. “It does
seem a little strange,” said fresh-
man Marcus Byrd. “If the Vice
Presidency is an elected posi-
tion, then they should have an
election for that spot and keep
all the other people where they
are.”

Michael Lee, an Honor Ad-
vocate familiar with the EC, said,

“The replacement process as it
stands is fundamentally unfair -
it’s not right for an at-large of-
ficer to be automatically replaced
by a senior. I believe the EC
knows this, which is why they’re
reviewing their Constitution to
deal with it.”

The Student Body Consti-
tution dictates how the Execu-
tive Committee handles the res-
ignation of members. The 1995-
1996 document, the most recent
version available through pub-
lic record, states that in the case
of “vacancies in Student Body
offices and all positions of
honor...elective offices will be
filled by election”.

The Constitution is main-
tained and kept by student body
ofﬁcers. It has traditionally been
printed in the Student Hand-
book, but does not appear in re-
cent editions.

According to Voting Regu-
lations Board chair Joseph
Hamil, 'I\iesday’s election will
take place at a voting booth out-
side of the University Commons
from 9 o’clock to 5 o’clock.
Hamil, who chaired the VRB last
year as well, does not know of
any emergency elections such
as this in recent years.

The new representative will be
installed and begin his/her du-
ties within a week of election.

President Bush wants
alum for judicial spot

BY Enm JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

President Bush has nomi-
nated a Washington and Lee
alumus, Walter Dekalb Kelley, to
the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia. The
Senate must now approve the
recommendation, which is a pro-
cess that could take several
months.

The nomination was an-
nounced on October 14 on the
White House website.

Kelley graduated cum laude
in 1977 and then went on to earn
his J .D. from Washington and Lee
law in 1981. He currently works
as a partner in Troutrnan Sand-
ers LLP in Norfolk, Virginia

If his nomination is ap-
proved, Kelley will be replacing
Judge Henry C. Morgan Jr., who
was also a W&L alumnus of both
the undergraduate and law
schools.

Virginia Senators John W.
Warner and George F. Allen, sub-
mitted suggestions of nominees
to the President.

James L. ChapmanIV,a 1982
W&L Law alumnus, was also a
name submitted to the President
for possible nomination.

Senator Warner graduated
from Washington and Lee in 1949
and has previously worked to
secure federal funding for the
Shepherd Poverty Program. His
father was also a graduate of the
University.

Board allocates

$40,000 to Traveller at meeting

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

This weekend, the Board of
Trustees allocated $40, 000 to
Traveller. Combined with the
$40,000 Traveller receives from
the Executive Committee and the
$5000 it receives from the Dean
of Students offic Traveller now
has a budget of $85,000 this year.

The money from the Board,
“puts us back at $85, 000, which
is roughly what we had last year,”
said Bailey Edwards, Chainnan of
the Traveller Committee.

Because of the reduced bud-
get this year, Traveller had to re-
duce some educational programs
and was not able to experiment
with new procedures.

Traveller also cut van ser-
vice on Sunday and Tuesday
night because it wasn’t being
used.

Vifith the increase from the
Board, Traveller plans on bring-
ing speakers to campus and pro-
viding students with other edu-
cational programs, “we’re in the
process of putting together ac-
tivities,” said Edwards, “and we
might go back up to Sunday and
Tuesday service.”

The $40,00 from the Board
has, “given us a little room to try
new things to be better and more
efﬁcient,” said Edwards.

Traveller plans to unveil
some new approaches to the sys-

tem at the end of fall term, which
may become permanent changes

 

 

1.

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

Siiiiliﬁnrronu

Board of Trustees must
communicate with the rest of us

Washington and Lee is a business.
Like a business, our Board of Trustees is
instrumental to the operation of The Uni-
versity. Without their guidance, our or-
ganization would fail. There is one as-
pect of a successful plan that is lacking,
however: Communication.

The Ring-tum Phi is communication
driven. After all, it is what we do.

We understand that some of what
the Board does must remain conﬁden-
tial, but that doesn’t mean that everything
they do has to be a secret.

Perhaps the Board of Trustees could
implement a plan in which its mission is
more readily provided to its various con-
stituencies.

Why not write a letter to the faculty,
staff, students and alumni after each
meeting and explain what was decided
during their assembly. We would all ben-
eﬁt by knowing some of what is discussed
during their get-togethers.

Communication is a two-way street.
More contact with students would ben-
efit the Board, as well. Currently, rep-
resentatives of the Executive Commit-
tee, Student Judicial Committee and Stu-
dent Faculty Hearing Board make pre-
sentations at each gathering of the trust-
ees. This year, Traveller was also in-
cluded.

The Board of Trustees should invite
a few students to dine with them at some
point during their time in Lexington.
“Regular” students might provide valu-
able insight into the Washington and Lee
Experience that board members might not
otherwise get.

We thank the Board of Trustees for its
hard work and dedication to The Univer-
sity. There is no question that members
have as much love for Washington and Lee
as any student, but why not do a better job
of communicating with the rest of us?

 

“...bigOtry may easily be exploited by
enemies of the United States and contribute
to an erosion of support within the Arab
world, and...increased risk for members
of the U.S. Armed Forces serving in

Muslim nations”

~Washington&IeeA1urn Senatorlohn
Warner (R-VA) on Lieutenant General
John Boykin’s anti-Islamic remakrs.

T.H:E; RlN(.}~”_i7ll?r£ PH:

CAIEYANDEBSON
OPINIONSEDIIOR

EMAmANorasONr@twn)u

PINIONS
131  i

 

 

PAGE 3

  Ort Wit 

  

pnorro coux-rssrr or onIz'neather1.r.£0rn

Roar, ROOT Roar? An extremely sparse crowd huddles in Montreal’s Olympic Stadium to watch the Expos thrash the Reds 13-2.

_ I love baseball. I’ve played it whenever I’ve had the opportunity since
before I can remember. I’ve watched it from behind the plate as an umpire for
years upon years. And as is appropriate for any baseball afﬁcionado, I’ve
been a die-hard devotee of my home town team from birth. In my case, the
home town tearn' is the San Diego Padres (if you ever see me around campus,
you’ll rarely see me without my Padres cap to hide my perennial bad haircut).
The Padres, with a payroll of $40 million, have not been doing well in recent
days. Since their establishment in 1969, they’ve been to the World Series
twice, in 1984 when they lost to the Tigers, and in 1998 when they were swept

by the Yankees.

Increasingly, more and more teams are sharing my home team’s experi-
ence of being beaten to a bloody pulp by the Yankees. While the scrappy
Marlins pulled off an unlikely victory this year, the Yankees win with almost
predictable regularity. Doubtless, the rich mastermind behind the New York
Yankees, George Steinbrenner, will respond to his team’s faﬂ-
ure to win a World Series in an unprecented three whole years
(bemused sarcasm, there) by spending even more money on a
team that already has the largest payroll in baseball to ensure
the continued dominance of the Yankees. This, in a nutsheﬂ,
is what is wrong with baseball today. '

The numbers show that America’s national pasttime is on the decline.
Football is by far more popular. Around 39 million were tuned in to the Game
6 ﬁnale of the Marlins-Yankees World Series at any given time. More than
twice that timed in to the Buccaneers-Raiders Super Bowl back in January.

Why? Why is baseball going downhill? Why is the MLB thinking of
connacting teams that have consistently performed well? Why are the strong
Montreal Expos dying for lack of fan support? Why do the Yankees win
again and again? Why are there strikes despite the fact that both players and
owners purport to love the game above money? And why, above all, do more
and more fans leave the game each year, tuning in, often, to other sports?

   
  

Let’s consider, for a moment, the‘NFL, which, as I’ve ‘said, is stagger-' I

ingly more popular than baseball at the ‘moment. The NFL has several
significant differences from the MLB, but the most important are these
We.

First, the National Football League has a policy called “Revenue Shar-
ing.” Under this policy, a majority percentage of the revenue gained by teams
from stadium advertising, paraphenalia sales, etc., must be spread evenly
among all 32 teams. The concept here is to prevent any one team from having
a terribly larger budget than others. While owners, obviously, can take or
give more money from or to their teams, any investment will return avbalanced
amount of money, as the excess goes to the other teams. This prevents
Steinbrenner-esque situations where more money brings more success, which

 Moiiiiiilriiis Musnxtcs
V CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

brings more money, which brings more success, etc. In this way, parity is
established. All the teams have an equal ﬁnancial shot at the Super Bowl, and
the fact is that you can’t buy a championship in football like you can in
baseball. The only time anyone ever brought up the concept of revenue
sharing in baseball, the large franchises (Yankees, Red Sox, Braves)_raised
such a stir that the issue was timidly withdrawn.

Second, the NFL has a salary cap, another measure to prevent gravita-
tion of all the talent to where the money is. You simply CAN ’T spend too '
much money, even if you want to. This, again, prevents one team from taking
a stranglehold on the entire sport, as well as stop . You will, of course, recall
that the last time they even discussed salary caps in baseball, they had a
strike that stopped the World Series from happening. And then all the players
and owners complain about how the fans are deserting them.

These two cons for baseball, combined with the fact that the Commis-
sioner is an owner of one of the teams, the fact that foot-
ball bans 14 performance-enhancing drugs that are freely
allowed in baseball, the fact that a lack of parity means
that the same teams win over and over again, the fact that
they’re trying to replace live umpires with robotic scan-
ners, these all combine to strike baseball out in the eyes of

its fans.

The future of baseball if it goes as it is will be one where fewer and fewer
fans show up to the ballpark. Large franchise teams will dominate the market,
and small ones like the Padres will suffer in losing seasons forever. Even
smaller ones, like the Twins and Expos, will be banished from baseball alto-
gether. And eventually, except for New Yorkers, people will stop caring about
baseball altogether. _

Whenever someone tries to make baseball a fairer sport ﬁnancially, either .
the players or the owners make an uproar, saying that the change will “unbal-
ance” the sport. This is a code term for “the change will cost me money.”
Honestly, these people makes millions. Is a difference between $105 million
and $50 million really going to matter all that much? If everyone so greedy
that they can’t make that sacriﬁce for the good of the sport, then they’re just
lying when they say you care about the game and its fans.

My hope is that someone, either a Commissioner of Baseball, a high-
proﬁle player, or perhaps a powerful owner, makes the salvation of baseball
their personal crusade. If a huge star, say a Derek Jeter or anA-Rod, stood up
and and announced that they would take a salary cut to save the game, and
that everyone else should do likewise, support for the idea would build. If
they don’t, well.... Sacriﬁce ﬂies and bunts are ﬁne, but you’ll be doing so in
front of fewer and fewer people unless you sacriﬁce your superﬂuous sala-
rres.

W&L students should respect, be civil

er.-42.1:-ec.~.r:2«i rs:

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

  

Jeb Brooks
Kyle Wass

Erin Julius
Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan
Cody Gabbard
John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jmg
Hilary Henry
Emily Edwards
Anne Iadarola
Katie Howell

Production Assistants

Copy Editor
Editorial Director

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Distribution Dir.

Paul Seifert
Henry Grimball
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Wrginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

We may be college students, but we should
show a little respect for each other every now
and then. Don’t you think?

In recent weeks we have seen overzealous
athletic fans cause penalties on the field, obnox-
ious Traveller passengers and disrespectful ex-
changes between University Security and stu-
dents. I am, no doubt, guilty of some of the com-
plaints I am presenting here, however someone
has to step up to the plate and make the Univer-
sity community aware of some of
its most egregious pitfalls.

Washington and Lee’s famous
“only rule” of always being a
gentleman is something most all

‘ of us hold just short of sacred.

Perhaps we should do a better job of remember-
ing its meaning, though. I am certainly not call-
ing for complete order at the expense of college
pranks and fun. Such a plan would almost cer-
tainly fail. Instead, my goal is common decency
and simple respect for one-another. Is that such
a difficult thing to hope for?
Therearethreeareasonwhichlbelievewemust
work. Theyareath1etics,TravellerandSecrnityrela1ions

[EB BROOKS ‘O5

Energized fans are absolutely essential to a
successful athletic event. I don’t think I’m put-
ting words in anyone’s mouth, though, when I
chastise fans who are so excited that they nearly
cost a penalty. Running onto the field during
game play is inappropriate, unfair and stupid.
We are all Washington and Lee students and
surely are capable of appropriate behavior in
public. Attendees at games are not just mem-
bers of our group. Parents, faculty, staff and
students from our own insti-
tution as well as our
competitor’s attend. We
ought to put our best foot for-
ward for them.

Traveller drivers are

jar!

' doing a service for the W&L community. Every

student should, before he graduates, get behind
the wheel of a Traveller car. Come on y’ all, drive
for the program. If we all took that charge, maybe
there would be a reduction in the tendency to
have a short fuse with drivers. Next time you
call for a ride from Traveller, remember that ev-
eryone in the van or car is a fellow Washington
and Lee student.

RlNG—TUM Pr-;

Students who mock or jeer University Se-
curity Officers disrespect the most vital au-
thorities on campus. They are willing to put
their lives at risk to ensure that we have the
best and safest experience possible while in
Lexington.

Why make fun of someone so willing to
help us? Perhaps the personal relationships
ofﬁcers form with students make them seem
more like equals than superiors, at times.

These men and women may be our friends,
but we have also got to realize that when they
ask us to do something, we must do it. When
it comes to safety, they are in charge.

Our “one rule” means a lot. Maybe we
have lost sight of its importance in our day-
to-day lives. Remember that everyone you
encounter at Washington and Lee is a mem-
ber of the same community. That is truly spe-
cial. We all share a love for this utopia. Let’s
work to make sure it remains worthy of the
admiration that alumni, parents, faculty, staff
and students have for it. Show a little respect.

After all, we all stand together “in the
shadows of white columns.”

I

SENIOR VoTER’s GUIDE

Editors’Note: The candidates were asked about their views on the role of Executive Committee Representatives as role-models for the student body.

Eden Parks

The E.C. upholds the most valued aspect of the uni-
versity, the honor system. It is essential that repre-
sentatives understand the values of the honor sys-
tem and act honesﬂy and morally in order to set the
proper standards for the W&L community. I under-
stand the responsibilities of E.C. representatives and
am conﬁdent in my abilities to undertake this duty.

Willie Thompson

A member of the Executive Committee cannot
help but serve as a role-model for the student
body. There is no “must” about it. Subse-
quently, what becomes important lies in type of
role-model that he or she espouses. The ex-
ample that E.C. members set must reﬂect the
ideals of our founders

MattLaf.kas

The representatives are the only symbols of this
system that are present everyday; hence they must
act with the utmost personal responsibility. Rep-
resentatives are more than an honor judges; they
will be your personal definition of what this stu-
dent body if capable of in and out of the class-
room. »

 

  

PAGE 4 .



MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

Average American’s way of life leads to poverty

$18,556 a year. If a family of four earns that much or less, it is
considered poor. Over 34 million people don’t make that much in a
given year, according to the latest report from the US Census Bureau.
And today, I learned another shocking fact: America has the biggest
poverty problems out of all the industrial economy countries in the
world.

After being shocked, I was discouraged. How can the wealthi-
est nation have the most problems in poverty? And furthermore,
what can I do and what can all of us do to change this statistic? I
have a few thoughts I’d like to share.

First, poverty is in the eye of the beholder. For this point, let’s
just use European countries as the example of the industrial coun-
tries I will discuss. I do not claim to know a great deal 
about the economic and social situations in Europe, A 
but from what I do know, I am aware that they have a .
very strong public assistance program in which gov- V"
emment allocates a lot of subsidies for most citizens,
not just the underprivileged. Everyone pays heavy taxes in this
socialist system in return for large social programs (such as free
health care and subsidized college education) and basically every-
one is taken care of, so there is very little poverty as a result. Be-
cause people are closer to equality, more or less, there are fewer
economic distinctions between one person and another. It is the
opposite in America. We live in a capitalist society in which public
assistance is given to those who need it. Those who don’t need it
have learned to climb the economic ladder to reach an income bracket
where they can more than care for their own needs. Therefore there
are visible economic differences amongst Americans. When there is
such a disparity in the well-beings of individuals, the effects are more

  

noticeable. We can compare the conditions of one person with those of
another person’s because they are so drastically different. When every-
one is basically on the same level, then the differences are minimal and
barely noticeable, as is the case in European countries.

This difference in turn creates two different realities for us inAmerica
and they in Europe. We have a lot of work to do to rectify the disparity
while Europe can just take it easy for a bit. Those of us who have been
forttmate enough to grow up with all the privileges that American soci-
ety has to offer must play a proactive role in correcting the dismal situa-
tion for the people who have not had the same advantages. This is
obviously hard for us to do considering the present statistics.

We need to remember that everything we do and don’t do impacts

people in our society, especially those at the bottom

TRAIN OF THOUGHT economic tiers. When we object to raising taxes, our
TRAN KIM ‘O5 pocketbooks get fuller but the mouths of the poor get

hungrier. Our tax dollars go to fund welfare programs
and education programs that help ﬁll voids in these
people’s lives, and what we lose in raising taxes is in no comparison to
what they lose when we lower taxes. They seldom beneﬁt ﬁorn tax cuts
because they do not pay that much in taxes with such low incomes.
How much in taxes can a family of four pay when they make less than
$19,000, less than the cost of most of the cars at W&L? Currently, one
program is already suffering from changing economic policies. Head
Start, the federal pre-school program for underprivileged children, is
experiencing some ﬁnancial reductions. Some, like the Uplift Program in
Greensboro, NC, have lost huge grants and face closure.
Though I illustrated my previous point by discussing taxes, I don’t
think that the solution here is to pay attention to taxes and rally against
tax cuts. The solution is to change our way of life entirely. America

Freshman gives perspective and advice

Don’t care what a freshman has to say about W&L? Well, you
should! Because freshmen are the future of this school, (and more
importantly), I happen to be an especially cool freshman. It’s hard
to know where to begin. In the very beginning, college felt like
some kind of surreal and prolonged summer camp. In the back of my
mind, it was hard to remember that I was never “going home” again.
In fact, the very idea of home is kind of up in the air. This beautiful
campus will be my home for the next four years, and then it is up to
me to find a new one.

All through childhood I had longed for independence; the free-
dom to make my own choices and live my own life. The reality,
however, would affect me in ways I didn’t expect. I cannot speak for
my peers, (at least those not being completely honest with them-
selves), but it was a little hard to get used to. The idea of no longer
having my old group of friends, a support group in
the time when one could conceivably need them the V
most, was hard to handle. I even slightly resented the  3
fact that I had to start from scratch and meet people. ‘ " " ‘

The first few weeks of school was an endless
game of “What’s your name,” “Where are you from,” and “What
dorm are you in?” Once classes started, the routine set in and ev-
erything became more natural. I’m still, however, getting used to
the reading load and the fact that you can have only three or four
grades in a class. But now, Lexington feels like my home.

Now and then, I’m still struck by the beauty of the campus
when walking through the colonnade and am amazed that I really
go here. And I am still often surprised to look into the distance and
see mountains, like when walking out of what has to be the most
scenic Wal-Mart I’ve ever seen. Texas doesn’t even have hills! And
where did the Mexican food go? I can already appreciate that W&L
is a beautiful, unique, and nurturing place. But that is not to say
that I don’t have any advice for my fellow classmates or any

 

areas where there could be improvement. For starters, the
Princeton Review’s rankings weren’t always (at least in my
mind) things to be proud of.

I am infinitely proud of the quality of our teachers and
our academic growth (one of the nation’s top national liberal
arts colleges), but we are also #2 for “alternative lifestyles
not an alternative,” #5 “homogenous student population,”
#3 ‘‘lots of beer,” and #1 “most nostalgic for Reagan.”

I may be in the minority here, but these are not things
that I would brag to my friends or relatives about. Most of my
classmates back home had never heard of my school, but those
who did remembered it as “that one with all the beer.” This
was not exactly what I wanted to hear after working my butt
off through high school to get into the academically-best
school I could. And whether you are proud
of any one statistic or not, I think we can all
admit that some of them will naturally have
the result of turning some very interesting
. and talented students away. A little more di-
versity would only make W&L a more rich and exciting place.
And Lexington could always use a little extra excitement!

My only suggestion is that we make a conscious effort to
be open-minded and tolerant. Lexington and this area have a
lot to offer us and I would encourage everyone to make use of
it. Join a club! It’s a great way to meet people and you can
really make a difference. If classes are stressful and monoto-
nous, take a p.e. class. It’s a really nice way to mix things up
and most of them only last for six weeks. Check out what
historic Lexington has to offer. Spend a day walking around
and make a point of hitting all the hot-spots.

Go out on the lawn with a friend and take a roll of pictures. And
talk to all of the adults you can: from the book store to the town to the

cannot change unless we, the people who make up America, change.
That means we need to increase our awareness of the issue. The more
we know about the issue, the more we will be effective in implementing
change. That requires knowing the people we are helping. That means
eternal community service in some capacity. A lot of us are involved in
community service at W&L and probably prior to W&L as well, but
many of us will stop once we leave this community. For some unknown
reason, the drive to donate our time to help out diminishes once people
leave college in many cases. People are catapulted into the capitalism
and are consumed by the drive to succeed and prosper. And we forget
about the people who need our help. This trend must end. The more we
forget, the more people suffer.

We need to determine how it is we can help the underprivileged in
everything that we do. If your passion is law, offer some pro—bono
services to deserving persons who can’t afford your good services. Or
educate an impoverished community about the law through a church
because they are often unaware of their rights in this society. If you are
a future doctor, donate some of your services at a free clinic to help
people with serious medical problems who otherwise would not be able
to afford your care. Ifyou are soon to be investment banker, donate your
time in ﬁnancial advice and help aspiring business owners with few
resources with a loan. Regardless of what career you may choose to
pursue, you will undoubtedly possess some talents that can be used to
help someone in need. If each of us help at least one person attain a
better way of life, then 1,770 lives will be improved. But this number just
applies to students presently in the undergraduate level here. What
about the law school students, the friends that we inﬂuence, and the
people we’ll meet after undergrad? Just imagine the possibilities.

PI-{OT BY C0113 Bcoru), R1NG— I-{I
HOME, SWEEFHOME. BDG is home to many of the class of ‘O7

marketplace; I have already met such warm and fascinating

people. Finally, and most importantly, don’t forget that it’s-

okay to sleep. It is not necessary to play music or talk loudly
with friends till three in the morning on a Tuesday! I can tell
there’s no studying going on in there! And if you don’t feel
up to going to a party, or if you have a lot of work to do,
skipping one night will not destroy your social life. We fresh-
man have four years of partiesto go to. Spread it out a little or
you are likely to fail out, have a nervous breakdown, collapse
out of exhaustion, or else have it lose all its enjoyment.

Abortion: yes or no? Partial-birth abortions barbarous

This past Tuesday, the United “doctors” use a “dilation and ex-
StatesSenatevotedona64—34mar- traction” methodtoperfcrmpartial
gintobanpartialbirthabottions. birthabortions. Keepinmind,par-
Onlythreeweeks ago,theHouse tialbirthabortionsoccurintheﬁfth
of Representatives passedthe same month of pregnancy or later, after
measurebya281—142 margin. Ifeel the baby has developed many fea-
thisdecisionislongoverdne. Abor— turesofahumanbeing. Inthistype
tion is a disgusting of abortion,
practice that is of- SLICE ON LIFE the doctorpar—
ten abused in the ‘ tially removes
United States as a NICK MANNINO 07 the fetus ﬁom

form of birth con-

trol. While certain situations obvi-
ously justify abortion as a viable
option (rape, incest, danger to the
mother’s health), these operations
are often performed in the early
stages of conception, before a
physical being with discernable
human features forms in the
mother’s womb. Ifyou aren’taware
of the grotesque procedure doctors
utilizetoperformpar1ialbirthabor-
tions, let me enlighten you. These

the uterus and
pokes a hole in its skull. Sounds
nice, huh? Wait until you hear why
they poke aho1einthefetus’s skull.
Thepurposeofthisholeistopro-
vide a passageway for the fetus’s
braintobestlckedoutofitshead
Still holding your food? Wait,
there’s more. After the brain is
sucked out, the fetus’s head col-
lapses into a shape reminiscent of a
deﬂatedbasketball Whenthefetus’s
head is reduced to mush, the doctor

canthenremovetherestofthefetus
from the woman’s body. Is this a
procedure that any human being
deservestoendure,letaloneanin-
nocent fetus? This method of abor-
tion should have been ouﬂawed a
long, long time ago. Even those of
you who support abortion have to
admit that this procedure is utterly
disgusting at the very least In fact,
itis inhumane. Thepractice of suck-
ing out a human being’s brains
should be reserved for individuals
like Osama Bin Laden and Saddam
Hussein, not an innocent fetus well
onitswaytobecomingapartofthis
wodd.’

Under the umbrella of this ar-
gument lies a greater concern for
those of us who morally object to
abortion. It concerns another form
of abortion called “dilation and
evacuation.” Inthismethodof abor-
tion,whichisperformedinthesec-

onduimesterofpregnan_cy,adoctor
essentiallydisrnernbersafetusinside
the uterus and removes it piece by
pieceﬁomthemother’sbody. While
itisobviousthat“dilationandevacu-
aticn”proceduresarelessvisiblydis-
turbingthan“dilationandext1action”
procedures (where the fetus’s head
is outside the uterus during the pro-
cess),thisfactorismorallyinsigniﬁ-
cant My concern is that a htnnan
being,whohasno sayinthematter,
isbeingkilledbeforeitevenhasa
chance to enter this world What
rightdowehaveasmorallyrespon-
sible human beings to destroy the
life ofan innocent fetus simply be-
cause it is a convenient alternative
tohavingachild?

I’m not blind to the variables
that encourage women to have an
abortion. Insomesituations,wornen
simply do not have the money or
resourcestopropedycareforachild.

I recognize this problem, but also
olferasuggestionastohowabop
tion can be avoided Why not give
the baby up for adoption? While
Pmfullyawarethatdeliveringababy
is avery emotionally draining expe-
rience and that strong bonds form
betweenthemotherandthebabyas
a result of this experience, if the
woman cared enough for her child
andwantedittobeapartofthis
world, she would strongly consider
adoption a practical alternative. An-
other argument I hear is that birth
control fails at times and 
happen” Thisis suchapoorexcuse
foranabortionthatitrnakesme sick
tolistentoit Aftermanyyears of
sex-ed classes and parental conver-
sations on the matter, I would hope
that as responsible adults, we rec-
ognizethatifitis simply impossible
forustocareforachild, andthepros—
pectoffailedbirthcontrolistoorisky,

PtlAlES

Grow LAWRENCE RANGEL
PELATES/ALEXANDER Meruoe

309 N. Main St. —  , VA 24450

       
 

540-461-3447

¢

 

 

we shouldn’t be having sex in the
ﬁrst place. A troubling notion, I
know. But think of the conse-
quences. We’re students at one of
the most elite universities in the
country. We have the potential for
a very successful and prosperous
life ahead ofus. Ourparents can’t
wait forus to make aton of money
so we can buy them that beach
house they always wanted And
then your girlﬁiend gets pregnant.
It’s a tough situation to swallow.
So you tell your girifriend to have
an abortion, and she goes through
with it Twenty years later you’re a
father of two witha great job, won-
derful wife, and a perfect life. Will
you be able to simply forget that as
a result of your college revelries a
human life was destroyed? Con-
sider the options people, abortion
is not the answer.

        

- ' f_ .l
I it-IEUNTING TIRES
cfﬁillntialnuitagtﬁrgvl

 :'g;t:$atru.rdw,
Naruamhut

TUEBQ BEGHI AT
32% E??? "Q"
I mum: Tran um cu:
Thursday an». Frtdw 31*,
Bctwvay 1“

       

I

 

    

JOHNHYIAND
AssisrANrSPoR1sEDr10R
EMAn;HYiAtu@wuin)U

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

’§’1_~li?.‘. RlE\l{:1«-’.§.‘UM_ Par

PORTS

PAGE 5

Women’s soccer poised for the postseason action
Team ranked 18th in national poll going into ODAC Tournament with 12-1-2 record

JOHN HYIAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDiToR

The W&L women’s soccer team ended its regu-
lar season yesterday with a record of 12-1-2 (9—l—l
ODAC). The Generals are currently ranked 18"‘ in
the country nationally and will enter the ODAC
tournament with the second seed behind Virginia
Wesleyan.

The Generals traveled to Greensboro, N.C., on
Wednesday for a conference game against Guilford.
W&L got on the scoreboard when freshman for-
ward Anne Wiltshire found senior forward Fontaine
Marceaux for a score 15 minutes into the game. The

Mens’ soccer reelin

JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After opening the season with a 6-0-2 start,
one of the best in school history, the W&L men’s
soccer team has now lost ﬁve in a row, including
two this past week to drop their record to 6-5-2.
They have fallen to sixth place in the ten team
ODAC conference.

The Generals hosted Guilford on Wednesday.
The Quakers entered the game behind W&L in the
ODAC standings but got off to a quick start when
they scored less than 7 minutes into the game.
Guilford took their lead into halftime even though
W&L out shot the Quakers 7-3 in the ﬁrst half and
missed a direct penalty kick. The Generals contin-
ued to control the game in the second half but
were unable to tally a score. Their frustration was
very apparent as Generals players were hit with
two yellow cardsand one red card. The Quakers,
however, were able to convert on their few oppor-
tunities. Junior midﬁelder Ampofo Darko tallied two
late second half goals for the Quakers to preserve
the 3-0 victory . All told, the Quakers scored on 3
of their 9 shots while W&L was unable to place
any of their 22 shots in the back of the net. Quak-
ers goaltender Zane Campbell was very effective

in thwarting the W&L attack, notching 9 saves. The Generals junior

keeper, Chris Carlson, made 3 saves in the loss.

W&L traveled to Bridgewater on Saturday for a conference
match—up with the second ‘place Eagles, who entered the game with
an 11-4 record (5-2 ODAC). The Generals opened the scoring midway
through the first half, when junior midﬁelder Brian Pirkle scored his
team leading eighth goal of the season off an assist from senior
midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr. W&L extended their lead early in the second
half when sophomore midﬁelder Derrick Lott found Stoehr who beat
Eagles goalkeeper Jon Boller for his third goal of the season. The
Generals maintained their lead more than halfway through the sec-

Generals extended their lead to 2-0 when junior de-
fender Kelley Zagol buried an unassisted goal with
just 35 seconds remaining in the ﬁrst half. It was all
the scoring the Generals would need. The Quakers
cut the lead in half to 2-1 early in tlie second half.
They held a narrow 10-8 shot advantage for the
game but could not get another score past W&L
goalkeeper Emily Barker. The junior made four of
her ﬁve saves in the second half. Guilford currently
stands in a tie for fourth place in the ODAC with a
record of 7-4 (1 1-8 overall). -

W&L was on the road again on Wednesday

g after ﬁfth straight loss

when they headed to Roanoke to face the Maroons
in another conference match-up. The Generals
wasted no time taking advantage of Roanoke as
senior midﬁelder Heather Coleman converted on a
Wiltshire pass just over 5 minutes into the game.
However, the Maroons came back to even the score
just 4 minutes later and took the lead at the 39:18
mark of the ﬁrst half. The game entered halftime
with the same 2-1 score. The Generals evened the
score at 2 midway through the second half when
Wﬂtshire connected on junior midﬁelder Maggie
Hope ’s pass. The tally extended Wﬂtshire’s team

scoring lead with 30 points on 12 goals and«6 as-
sists. Both teams’ defenses played tough for the
remainder of the game as nobody could get on the
scoreboard for the rest of the second half and over-
time and the game ended in a 2-2 tie. For the Gener-
als, Barker made 4 saves in goal. The Maroons
closed out their regular season with a record of 7-8-
3 (4-4-3 ODAC)

The Generals will return to action this Satur-
day for the ﬁrst round of the ODAC tournament.
The site and opponent of the match is yet to be
determined.

WHERE DID rr 60? Mens’ soccer’s slide in the ODAC standings continues.

Lewis)» 1

him.”

 

CORBIN BLACKFORD/ Rms -TUM Pi-ii

Cam and HyIando’s Top Ten list:
Top Ten Mike Tyson Quotes

10: “I just want to conquer people and their souls”
9: “My main objective is to be professional but to kill him (Lennox

8: “I’m from the ghetto. I don’t know how to act. One day I’m
in a dope house robbing somebody. The next thing I know, ‘You’re
the heavyweight champion of the world.”’

7: “I’m the biggest ﬁghter in the history of the sport. If you
don’t believe it, just check the cash register.”

6: “On June 8, ﬂesh will not be enough. I will take Lennox’s title,
his soul & smear his pompous brains all over the ring when I hit

5: “[He] called me a ‘rapist’ and a ‘recluse.’ I’m not a recluse.”
4: “Lennox Lewis, I’m coming for you man. My style is impetu-
ous. My defense is impregnable, and I’m just ferocious. I want
your heart. I want to eat his children. Praise be to Allah!”

3: “You’re sweet. I’m going to make sure you kiss me good
with those big lips. I’m gonna make you my girlfrien .”

ond half. However, Bridgewater cut the lead in half at the 73 minute
mark and evened the score at 2 with 6 minutes left in the game on a
goal by John Williamson. The Eagles forward continued his heroics
in overtime when he beat Carlson with 1:20 left in the ﬁrst overtime to
give Bridgewater a comeback 3-2 victory. Carlson and sophomore
Michael Stanton split time in goal for the Generals, each recording 2
saves. . . . . . . .

,  laitter loss could not come. at a worse time for .theGenerals,
who close out their regular season against Emory and Henry on
Wednesday. W&L will probably need a victory to qualify for the

2: “I paid a worker at New York’s zoo to re-open it just for me
and Robin. When we got to the gorilla cage there was 1 big
silverback gorilla there just bullying all the other gorillas. They

were so powerful but their eyes were like an innocent infant. I

offered the attendant $10,000 to open the cage and let me smash

that silverback’s snotbox! He

1: “I try to catch him right on the tip of the nose, because I try

to push the bone into the brain.”

ODAC tournament which starts this weekend.

New downtown Lex studio offers largely unknown type of exercise

ALLisoN PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

A new studio has opened up in Lexington that
offers a unique kind of exercise—one that many do
not know a lot about. Gloria Rangel opened up her
Pilates studio this fall on North Main Street.

Rangel prefers to adhere strictly to Joseph
Pilates’ work, the man who created the Pilates pro-
gram. She argues that following Pilates’ instruc-
tion is far different from any Pilates tapes done by
Wmsor Pilates or Denise Austin.

“I have mixed emotions about the spin-offs of
Joseph Pilates’ work,” Rangel said. “But at least it
brings about awareness of the methodology.”

Rangel offers both private sessions and mat
classes. The private sessions are $60 for one hour,
and she says she can teach about seven sessions
in one day.

The mat classes are $20 per class and are by
appointment only in order to guarantee a spot.
Rangel likes to only teach ten people per mat class
so that each student can receive more attention.

A few area college students have called to in-
quire about the classes, but Rangel says she cur-
rently only has local Lexington citizens as clients.

Many people confuse Pilates with yoga. But
Rangel sees Pilates as deﬁning and more ﬂuid than
yoga. _

“When you think of yoga, you think of posi-
tions,” Rangel said. “In Pilates, we address every
single, solitary bone and every single, solitary

muscle. . .in the way I have been trained.”

Rangel obtained her certiﬁcation from the
Physical Mind Institute. In 1961, she began her
studies in New York under Igor Yousevich and then
Kelly Kane. Rangel also graduated from the Ameri-
can Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York. She
originally wanted to become a ballerina before dis-
covering Pilates.

Before moving to Lexington in 2001, Rangel
worked as the director of the Williams Island Spa in
Florida and helped put together the Diplomat Spa,
also in Florida. _

Rangel said that she and her husband moved
to Virginia along with their six children because she
thought they would receive a good education here.
Their children range in age from 10-18.

Rangel’s studio is currently the only Pilates
studio in Lexington. The main room of the studio
houses several pieces of equipment including the
Barrel, the Clinical Reformer, the Cadillac, and the
Wunda chair. Each of these pieces was created
based on Joseph Pilates work.

Pilates was originally from Germany, but he
left to avoid being part of the army. He came to
New York in 1926 and opened his first studio. His
work was first welcomed by the ballet world. But
Rangel said it was not until recently that his pro-
cess was recognized in Germany.

Pilates had a background invthe medicine ﬁeld,
and much of his program grew out of rehabilitation.
Regular practice of a Pilates program will develop
core stabilization.

Rangel said that the process is about using
deep, small muscles and working the entire length

of the muscle. Then through mobilizing the joints,
executions of movements become effortless with-
out strain to the spine.

“No pain, no gain is not our mantra,” Rangel
said. “It’s all from the inside out. It’s all internal.”

She believes that Pilates can be summed up in
three P’s: precision, position, and power.

Rangel says she loves her work and constantly
continues her education in the Pilates field. In ad-

dition to teaching at her studio, she also will be
offering a class through Dabney S. Lancaster Com-
munity College.

Rangel stressed again that Pilates is all about work-
ing with the right group of muscles through in-
tense movement.

“It’s neurological,” Rangel said. “We’re about re-
moving bad memory chips.”

LAURA PONTlER/ RrNG—TUM PHI

STRETCHING OUT. Gloria Rangel opened up Lexington’s ﬁrst Pilates exercise studio this fall.

TH1s WEEK’s SCHEDULE

0C. Country at ODAC’ --TBA
OW Swim at Sewanee--11 :00
°Wrestling at VMI Inv.--
-10:00

Tuesday, October 28 Wednesday, October 29 Thursday, October 30 Friday, October 31 Saturday, N0V€mb9" 1 Sunday, N0Vemb€T' 2
0 VB vs. Lynchburg--6:30 0 M Soccer vs. E&H--3:00 OPEN 0 VB at Maryville ° FB vs. Bridgewater--1 :00 OPEN
0 F. Hockey vs. R-Macon- 0 W Swim vs. RMWC-- Toum.--TBA ° W Soccer at ODAC ’S-T BA
-7:00 6:00 0 Riding at RMWC Inv.-- 0 E Hockey at ODA_C’s-
TBA . T BA
0 M Swim vs. VMI--10:00
VB at Maryville Inv.--T BA

 

 

PAGE 6  0 MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

, Triple Ninesodety Lambda Chi, Chi Omega and the Lexington Police
Look Good for Your Parents! Founded 1978 Department
Extraordinary camaraderie 1

_ invite you and your children to a
In an

Come by and see Skip, Connie and Vlﬂlson at the NEW LOCATION! international society of peers. HA [1 ; 1ED 1 R‘ HER] J1 ) HOUSE
99_9th percentue: Wednesday, October 29 6:30-9:00pm

S  P T H O M P  O N 5.3 . end SAT 1450,.new SAT 1520, The Lambda Chi House (225 E. Nelson St)
. _ f . GRE 1460, MAT 85; "
0 _ see complete list at:
BARBER SHOP WWW-Wine-°r9 F0‘ Re”

17 S_ Randolph _, Lexington’ VA ' Parents/Alumni -- Restored and modernized log cabin on 22 . I’
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. — 5 pm. 0‘ 3° inmountams 15 mi“W°St°fLeXin3"°n- 2BR/ZBA“
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun. S1°°PS 6- AV311 Wkly °T “ﬂy ‘"3 1“-mm

 

Call (804)355-0002

 

 

 

    

o o 0 .

I ,
Un1vers1ty am, e Peatawmmt *

‘ le  e I‘ S PEDAL CAR mates: 8: Tee Tm‘ CAFE
out from I 24 an as ‘
01* §ein 2.13%: am:  Y01} ‘£?§&r:$:L&;y;uffca§
-« Friday Night Seafood Buffet with .
WE’LL GET RID OF YOUR DIRT HOUSE FOR RENT ~ Saurwy um sees: a si1a?:: sgisaiﬁaigiffma

. ~Sunday aaaeus. em Ribs ‘£1A?¢¥—-»9¥3M x

Available June 2004 2 “Se i 7 awe“ WWW 2

2 3 geglckef ﬁtfegatth 2'32;  2

° FOOITIS '

_ Great SerV1Ce_ Living Room/Large Kitchen 13-Rﬁ3«&’fF“0f>f>& AG!t_‘£M Cmaﬁwfm  "

F1rSt_ R ate Qu ahty washer/Dryer ‘.4.rm:£2t—:r. ?£2‘.~lt.§i. Cans ezggggjérgt .

Recently Renovated  .  A A ;,,_:gg;~;»MwA»,o_9,V0m -
$840/mo_ S»-Bi & .1964,   E526 RX. 51 R. l

7 North Jefferson Street dry cleaning, 463-9180 eveningsl weekends mxmwggimﬂ f

463-3622 laundry, alterations 458-5001 weekdays 5”“ 73 ';
_.

|NS‘PiRiEB BY H3? RUSS, SUVS MID DARWW.
t
I
ta: Same ‘fears _ _ "
3»3§3*‘§35*?§’§§ Seats fire, has 53 Eﬂhic
§:aw.s.eas§§as}:tm.2rs.2aa. : _
0  0 0 feet of cargo spaecee. and  ,
G0 to class_ is arailahie mi!!! 189 33$
.. and a &speed marina! .
You’ 11 learn sliift.‘ Even evolution
more, can’t fully explain it. j I
mama sar:m*-.£sus..s...::at amm é
MOSI Of th€ w§raereia5swisua;arEtmai..~aem4:ss 3 ’
_ re:rua1:;P9sa§ssr¢3ain§are:c1;»sra.a:{taa2sIa;§

' Etww.Ac1tut%aI.ts-§a::.ai.§1rzas.§:t. ’

  LSAT score
guaranteed    guaranteed
or your money back"  or your money back"

Prepare for the April 2004 MEAT  Going to law school in zoos? Prague tor the L$AT
with Kaplam  on campus a_1W&LIi  — with Kaplan hurt an umpire at WKLII

classes beget Jmuaw 1t}. 2064.  classes begin on  23, 20114.
Enrol! ROW  October 3151 am! native Enroll  and begin your
on-allne  Review FREE!  studs: at any tlnuxt

 ' and K&%i0ﬂ§  !L§iﬂhi£cm§iwlrmImi)u:nnuxi'1mLmieruainidniiaiut§nmsi. ﬂﬁ Kﬂiliiﬂﬂl

 all mcualredenlasses or malsma sessions.  all rnqtimd claaus or rnukoew sessions.
ecmpiata all stcha-nuiazaa fiesta. moi: ms  

3f WU! Eﬂﬂfﬁ €Ib3§l?i't Mﬁélﬂhﬁ WI 58%? {I33 VIM? f§'CéJl' A _ L n N iY1t'0Ul' WW9 ilﬁﬁlllfl 18391033 0!’! WM‘ UB5‘ TENN INT L  N
Rapist ztIaym1’i¢::.or' 8 peter dmclal  st:-o¢‘§,._  - _ i _. Dciﬂﬁﬁ dﬂttnﬁliﬁ: or 3  afﬂninl ‘mt   _ .

catiamuoee-torenastmrpsrcermngarfreeargaea Aeend'ioaae'mmaaatwrnuug:rHmmr!raaorgai'a
.9715!  af;5I:a¢.Ir'tI£!t1n.1'u mmigiisa fiar this offer, full  of ﬁillaqiuilia fizrtﬁlisaflate

§;?e'§f?.§??;“§%%$%“£e§i£‘§Z§Z€E; t =- :9 ll -e Ital? ~ ‘I’ E S 1' ?$$.'Z§‘$e?°e.31§§;?.;}”;e’§f“£.”;§eL‘?;§.‘§S§?n;“£*. I - it I! - III? - T E 5 T
. ..dmm.. .1,    1 ..ﬂ ‘ H mm am.“ of. _ .d I 0
iafumn grmmfrugéutégm kaptestmm/mama xmn §reeuee°?'§.“’eeeaT§"'e§3§."’ea”°’§§.§f”_' 0 KBPWS1-«MRI./law

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003   PAGE 7
#1 Spring Break Vacations!   

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, 9

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices! in Reekbl-idge Baths on Maury River
Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals! 2 bedroom, 2 bath
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus eentral air, ﬁreplace

REPS! 1'800‘234‘7007 $850 + security deposit and references
endlesssummertours.com eau evenings 703_503_g239

 

~ The ‘Ring-tum Phi is a really good place to work. Come join the tradition. ~

Fine Resale Apparel 51.

’ a Vintage Collectables 

20 West Washington Street ‘ .
in I-Iistoric Downtown k
Lexington, Virginia 

Open Monday-Saturday 10-5

 , Hits a     4’|15SOuthJeffer3Qn Street

   
       
     
 

, Just Arrived 

 

     exington,VA 
‘  »      V’
Crystal Jewelry ~  V‘  ‘ ' j V
Beaded Pulses "I

Embroidered Scarves

  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  

B_ebe‘*Ann Taylor * St. John :    
Anne Klein * Dana Buchman - - Ouf  
n ' A i»* -' Q ~ .
ezeeeezrizeeexez   Olﬁmmastsng      
1 TheGaP *1-Crew * DKNY ltalian Dinners!   : '? e.  
Ra1phLauren * Li1}yPuIiizer phi@W1u_edu . H « I - ' ;‘*=>e'~-e , Dme n 

  CAN no I!   e   l     3”“? 

 com FRAME$l
‘  HOT LENSES!
   

;  ee: eee ea, Melee er,-me. Leenegeee
“  2 eeeeeaee

Story idea? Email it to phi@wlu.edu

e * The College Town Shop 4 (me Cutting

951 e
lllW.Nels0nSt., Compme Wcmfor

MASIERCA/éo - VISA - AMERICAN EXPRESS - HOUSE CHARGES 91/[en amfft/1/omen
Style Cuts

_ C[ipper'Cuts
Compkte Q3oc{y Care

i Manicure
~ a. 0 (Pedicure
Waxing
V 0 117 W. Welsori St.
‘ ‘ , Lexington, ‘V/'1

463-9588
Cﬂwse to Campus

  Men’s Suits and Sporlcocils   imsmwsawnwtﬁa
\( d G’ersona[’I'oucﬁ!

Ladies Sweaters   51 ..      _    e e 

 
 
   
     
  

 

d

'   fle‘!¥'II'fl";§}'l."$TE"'lﬁ e;;ie.ie:z'a'ei.. ee.e:i$.  isle is ’ ' ' "    leek  
   ﬁélkieg ireeicgle he  eajiiile =3.:.l"e:   -i.-iu::irié;e:

Ii’:?i ¥£F.'::i1:!'Tl2l.!€fTiE£§..§'::i‘;!.l;fi?§ifi£*'fi‘;1F’ i=€;T.:ui‘il.é4g-see F"‘:e;m:i‘eei~.-i;-e§re,;;;=.

Our wa y of welcoming
- all our parents!

   

         

     

Serving the community since 1926.

Wafch for ofher upcoming specials in future issues.

 

 

  

 

PAGE 8



MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

Fening cl umers soar as students discover sport

CHRISTINE GRAY / THE RING—'l'UM PHI

LUNGE. Matt Miller parties a lunge from Marcurius Byrd at last Fridays Fencing Club practice.

Field hockey blanks Hollins, 6-0

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Senior forward Kelly Taffe (Charlottesville, Va!
Albemarle) scored three goals as the Washington
and Lee ﬁeld hockey team defeated Hollins, 6-0, in
ODAC action on Saturday afternoon.

Taffe’s performance marks a Generals’ (7-7, 5-
2) program-record for goals in a game. Freshman
forward Amy Brown (Potomac, Md/Holton-Arms)
scored a pair of goals for W&L while sophomore
midﬁelder Jane Beall (Richmond, Vajlames River)
rounded out the scoring with the last goal on the
day.

Washington and Lee took a 2-0 lead into half-

time thanks to Brown’s goals. Junior forward Kristen
Brown (Baltimore, MdJCatonsville) and sophomore
defender Katharine Lester (Wilmington, Del./
Friends School) each recorded an assist in the f irst
half.

Sophomores Elise Gelinas (Rosemont, Pa./
Agnes Irwin) and Courtney Harrison (Richmond,
Va./Collegiate) split time in the Generals’ goal.
Gelinas started while Harrison took over duties in
the second half. Neither keeper needed to make a
save as W&L held Hollins (0-1 1, 0-7) to no shots in
the game.

Caroline Adams made 19 saves for Hollins.

Turnovers hamper offense, send Generals home with a loss

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

The Generals fell behind 14-0 midway through
the second quarter, and couldn’t climb back against
ODAC foe Guilford (2-5, 1-2). The two teams fm-
ished the game closely matched in total yards and
first downs. The Generals passed for almost ‘twice
as many yards, but couldn’t overcome their ﬁve
turnovers. Senior Quarterback Peter Dean scored
the lone touchdown on a 1-yard scamper, and was
17-of-35 for 201 yards, but was picked off twice.

The Generals fumbled four times, losing three,
killing momentum and allowing the Quakers to score

34 points, 14 of them directly on defensive touch-
downs. Taylor Callaham caught 4 balls for 51 yards,
John Barnwell and Patrick Neuman each caught 3
balls for 43 yards, and Clark Kensinger caught 2
balls for 37 yards. Michael Lackett rushed 21 times
for 80 yards and Richard Garland rushed 6 times for
13 yards. The Generals defense, which forced two
turnovers of their own, was led by sophomore
tackle, Liam Murray, who made 11 tackles.

The loss dropped W&L’s record to 2-5 (1-3
ODAC) on the season. The Generals return to ac-
tion against nationally ranked Bridgewater this Sat-
urday in a conference match-up at 1:00 pm at Wil-
son ﬁeld.

SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

Club Fencing has taken center stage in club
sports. Over 40 freshmen signed up at the Activi-
ties Fair for this ancient sport and participation has
been exceptional. The addition of the freshmen has
bumped the roster up to approximately 80 mem-
bers. ‘

“I’m so glad that I signed up to fence.” said
Liane Carlson, a freshman, of her newfound activ-
ity, “I’ve never really done it ' ~
before but I am excited to keep

“The sport of fencing is fast and

History suggests that fencing has had its place on
campus since the beginning of the 19th century.
In the 1980s, Coach Dr. James Worth truly brought
the fencing club together and nearly achieved
NCAA recognition in intercollegiate athletics. Af-
ter his leave, the sport continued, but in a rather
disjointed format. In 2002, the club was refounded
by a freshman and now has several dozen active
members and looks to host a fencing competition
on home turf later this year.

Students practice Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday from 7-9 and Saturday
from 2-4. Attendance is re-

it up.” _ , quired at least once weekly to

So what exactly is fenc- athleuca Wlth 9- great deal of mental  standing on the team
ing? Fighters can compete in strategy,” roster. The team competes
three different weapons: Foil, K CHA ,07 with all willing schools within

epee, and sabre. Foil is typi-
cally the weapon of choice at W&L.

“It [foil] is just the most basic weapon to use.”
explained freshman Kari Chachula, a freshman, of
the team’s preferred weapon. “The sport of fencing
is fast and athletic, with a great deal of mental strat-
egy.”

The goal of fencing is to score a set number of
points on an opponent during the course of a fenc-
ing ‘bout’ which is the term used to describe a fenc-
ing match or game. Points are scored by hitting the
opponent with the foil within the target area. This
area ranges from the shoulder to the groin.

Club Fencing has a rich history here at W&L.

the area. Currently, competi-
tions are set up with VMI, George Washington
University, and Hollins.

The major goal of the team is to attain enough
funds to buy electrical equipment to host a home
competition. All levels of fencers compete on the
team including several students that have never
even had prior exposure to the sport.

“We all have different goals,” said Chachula.
“I’m always looking to improve my strategy and
blade/footwork to become a better fencer.”

Students interested in joining the fencing club
team should contact Caley Anderson at

AndersonC@wlu.edu.

Volleyball downs Macon, S. Virginia

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Junior outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng (Mt. Airy,
Md./South Carroll) surpassed the 1,000 mark in ca-
reer digs as the Washington and Lee volleyball
team improved to 26-3 overall, 10-0 in the ODAC
with a pair of wins on Saturday.

The Generals started the day with a 3-1 win
over Randolph-Macon (21-4, 8-1), defeating the
Yellow Jackets, 30-18, 30-21, 26-30, 30-28. Wash-
ington and Lee then wrapped up the day with a 3-0
victory over Southern Virginia (17-15), downing the
Knights 30-20, 30-26, 30-19. -

In the match against Randolph-Macon, Wolf-
ing and fellow junior outside hitter Michelle
Chastain (Phoenix, Ariz./Xavier Prep) led the way
with 20 kills each. Wolﬁng added 20 digs, while
Chastain added 14 digs. Sophomore middle blocker
Susan Gaillard (Charleston, S.C./Porter-Gaud) had
17 kills and sophomore setter Christine Gladysz
(Palm Harbor, Fla./Berkeley Prep) ﬁnished the match
with 58 assists and 11 digs.

In the match against Southern Virginia, Wolf-

6 ing surpassed the 1,000 career digs mark with 11

digs, while recording nine kills. Gaillard added 10
kills, while Chastain and sophomore right side Laura
Byme (Springﬁeld, Pa./Merion Mercy Academy)
each had seven kills. Gladysz recorded 40 assists
and junior libero Jennifer Lux (Virginia Beach, Va./
Cox) added 13 digs.

Radolph-Macon defeated Southern Virginia 3-
2 with game scores of 30-25, 27-30, 30-26, 23-30 and
15-12.

Washington and Lee returns to action on Tues-
day, when the Generals host Lynchburg. Match
time is 6:30 p.m.

CoRBiN BLACKFORD / RING-TUM PHI
SPIKED. Junior Michelle Chastain spikes the ball.

S'l'$'l'RAVE|..COM

s_, Earn Cash, Go Free!
How mag Omtampeus Reps

 

I-800-5-1-381$’? I‘ wwvwlatr avcttom

Golf Etiquette
tip of the

2 Replace your

week:

divots.  

University Sportwear
your downtown location for

W&L apparel and gifts
New Exclusive Football Polo Shirt for the 2003 season
15 W. Washington Street

Lexington, Virginia
540-464-3000

 

DO You Know an

The

  Amazing Person?

Celebrating Student Success

Committee

is now accepting nominations in the areas of:

Publications and Media
Performing Arts
Recreation

We seek the unsung heroes, the people who work tirelessly behind

the scene, adding depth and breadth to the
Washington and Lee community.

All nominees will beiincluded in the selection process of the

John W. Elrod Unsung General Award

Nomination forms can be picked up in the main hall of the
commons or via email from Burr Datz, bdatz@wlu.edu

Nominations are due by noon, Tuesday, November 11th.

MBGANMORGAN

AR’lS&LIFEEDIDOR
FMAn;MoR;ANMB@vwnn
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13,2003

nu RlN(}~’E”tflvi Pat

RTS

PAGE 9

  LIFE

Moustache Society raises money for Project Horizon

The program makes men hairy and helps ﬁght domestic violence. Professors and Administrators are sponsored by students and others to grow facial hair.

BY JENN BACKE
STAFF WRITER

Is there a razor shortage at Wal-Mart? Did Gilette suddenly go
bankrupt? No, certainly not, but why then are so many Washington
and Lee men sporting facial hair, moustaches to be exact? The rise
of facial hair on campus stems from the advent of the Moustache
Society, a group of men on campus committed to changing percep-
tions of male indifference to the issue of sexual assault.

These men are growing moustaches and asking for monetary
pledges for their weekly efforts, money they will then donate to
Project Horizon, a local agency that provides shelter and support
for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. Senior Warren
Baker summarizes, “The Society is changing the face of W&L or at
least making efforts to show W&L men condemn domestic, dating,
and sexual violence through supporting Project Horizon.” The
Moustache Society began their attempts after Reading Days and
will continue growing moustaches for a four week period ending on
Wednesday, November 19.

The Moustache Society arose out of multiple conversations
about sexual assault at W&L beginning back last spring when poet
and alumna Lyrae Van Clief-Stefanon gave a Women’s Studies col-
loquium that raised the issue and inspired an intense discussion.
Lesley Wheeler, English professor and chair of the Women’s Stud-
ies Program, and Jan Kaufman, University Health Educator, fol-
lowed up this fall by creating a task force comprised of people from
different sectors in the university.

One goal of the group was to tackle the common misconcep-
tion that sexual assault only affects women and that Washington
and Lee men are apathetic to the problem. Prof. Wheeler explains
her concern: “I’ve worried a lot about the disjunction between the
negative things I hear about male students and my own
experiences with them as a teacher and adviser, which have been
wonderful. l’ve been here over nine years, and every term I have at
least one student who is struggling to cope with a recent sexual
assault—sometirnes I only find out when it escalates into a crisis
that affects her academic work. I’ve wondered how the smart,
thoughtful, creative students I work with daily could allow this
climate of frightened silence to exist.”

I To break this culture of silence, Prof. Theresa Braunschneider
proposed the idea of the Moustache Society, a group enacted at
Kalamazoo College during her undergraduate study there. Wash-
ington and Lee men were contacted and the society was born. Be-
sides having a successful predecessor, Caleb Dulis, a senior and
Moustache Society member, adds “It gets people’s attention, and it
indicates that those of us in the group care enough about this issue
to pay the small social cost of looking ridiculous for four weeks.”

Since its inspiration many men have joined the Society and mem-
bers include but are not limited to Warren Baker, Caleb Dulis, Patrick
Hastings, Ansel‘ Sanders, Jimmy‘ ‘Zunka, ‘Andy ‘Mendrala, Brandon
Waddell, Daniel Vos, Harlan Beckley, Scott Dittman, John Blackburn,

JEB BROOKS / THE RH\IG— PHI

Facial Hair. Professor Harlan Beckley sports his freshly grown mustache. Torn Shepherd, benefactor of the Shepherd Povery Program, is among

the supporters of Beckley’s hair—growth.

Tom Kane, and Ben Losi. There are also joint efforts at the Law school.

Caleb Dulis says he joined the Society because, “It was the gentlemanly
thing to do.” More men are encouraged tojoin the Society bycontacting a
rnember,LesleyWheelerorJanKaufman Prizeswillbeawardedtothemanor

organ1zati' ‘on raising the most money and some men are already anticipating
close to $500 in donations. Through November 19, ﬁnd Society members

ioutsidetheConm1onsorcontactamembercﬁrecﬂytomakeadonationin

support ofProject Horizon and ending silence about sexual assault.

mm, 

WECCOME ?ﬂi.ﬂ£'.9V’T.S'!

Cemajairz. as Satzwdizy, ﬂfavenréer 1
Taste mane sgftﬁa ﬂeas Vﬁrgiaaia 
"isffiiiéa you ﬁrcrwse tfirmrgﬁ mar sﬁoyﬁaefnew items

ﬂooié Signing me we .s:uo

JEB ROOKS HE ' G—TUM HI
Fun times. Club Asia hosted the Asian Culture Fair at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday in the john
W Elrod University Commons. The event’s organizers say there was a lot of interest
from the students who came. Elements of Asian culture were represented. Martial arts,

video games and art were found in booths throughout the University’s Living Room.

Schedule of Parent’s Weekend events

Thursday, October 30th:

- Reading in the Commons Theatre by writer Harvest Beneﬁt at 7:00 p.m.
- Gallery Talk by Artist Marcus Alan Vincent at 7:00 p.m. in the Wﬂliauis School
— ‘Jeepers Creepers 2 will be shown in the Commons Theatre at 9:30 p.m.



Friday, October 31st:
gas: scar as .me.m?s’§m2*e
  
_   -
. as  
' ’ gage  ﬁre baartwsmting my
. =.¥.§:3%L‘ and deer .z.'§vs2'scs§s?§ anzs§wsa:3;~
‘§u?t$1i: uf ﬁtlaaexsa and i1»"‘£mw;ia>.it iifaaéézx
=:‘§x:ar: ﬁeyce were   ta:
 t§3:§rs  3'-«rat:

— Parents’ Weekend Choral Concert all day in Lee Chapel

- Annual Leybum Library Booksale begins at 8:30 a.m. andruns until November 4th at 8:30 am.
- The Film Society presents ‘“Ihe Devils Backbone” in the Elrod Commons Theatre at 7:30 p.m.
- Floumoy PLaywright Festival at 9:00 p.m. in the Johnson Theater at the Lenfest Center

Saturday, November 1st:

-Applied Music Recital in the duPont Auditorium at 10 a.m.

-Booksigning with author Richard McCaslin from 10 am. to 12 in the Elrod Commons Bookstore
-Parents Weekend Tailgate at the Law School Field with band 10 Spot from 1 1 :30 am. to 1 :00 p.m.
-The W&L Foorball team plays Bridgewater at 1:00 p.m. on the Wilson Field

-The Flournoy Playwright Festival in the Johnson Theater in the Lenfest Center at 2:00 p.m.
-The Film Society presents ‘The Devil’s Backbone’ at 7:30 in the Elrod Commons Theatre
- University Wind Ensemble Concert in the Keller Theatre in the Lenfest Center at 8:00 p.m.
—Flumey Playwright Festival at 8:00 p.m. at the Johnson Theatre in the Lenfest Center

 

PAGE 10

 

 RiNG—iiai Pat

THE AST ORD

MEGANMORGAN
AKlS&LlPEEDlIOR

EMAi;Mon;ANMB@mimU

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

A glimpse into diversity at Washington and Lee Jniversity

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

Diversity at Washington and Lee. It’s be-
come a hot topic of debate in the last few years
since the Board took an official “Commitment
to Diversity.” Though I don’t think anyone
would argue that we rival the diversity of UC
Berkley, by any means, I believe we have more
diversity between these old white columns than
most people realize. In this column, each week I
will sit down with a student who is in a minority
at W&L and share with you a little about their
lives-who they are and what makes them unique.

Senior Seth Martin is a pre-med Biol-
ogy major from Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. Be-
yond his role as president of Beta and as a mem-
ber of the men’s tennis team, Seth serves as
president of Hillel, the Jewish students’ organi-
zation on campus.

Hillel is a national organization with over 500
chapters and centers world wide. The official
Hillel website (www.hillel.org) says the group
seeks to “maximize the number of Jews doing

Jewish with other Jews.” The Washington and
Lee Hillel seeks to meet this mission by pro-
viding not only religious, but social and cul-
tural support for Jewish students.

Worship can be difficult for Jewish stu-
dents on campus; the nearest synagogue is
either in Staunton or Roanoke. Since few col-
lege student can be truly expected to make
the weekly roadtrips that this would require,
Hillel serves as a supplemental religious out-
let. The group holds a Shabbat service every
month called “First Friday’s at Five.” Though
a rabbi has come to campus in the past, cur-
rently two students from the University of
Virginia come to lead the service. One of the
students brings his guitar with him, allowing
him to lead the songs that occur throughout
the service.

Since Washington and Lee does not can-
cel classes for Jewish holidays, Hillel also
serves as a way to recognize these celebra-
tions. Most recently, Hillel built a sukkah to
celebrate Sukkot, the Jewish harvest celebra-
tion. The Judaism follows a separate Jewish
calendar, and Hillel also celebrates the

I knew I had chosen the perfect place for the

“High Holy Days” of Rosh Hashanah, the Jew-
ish New Year, and Yom Kippur, the Day of Re-
pentance.

Seth points out that Judaism is as much a
culture as it is a religion. Hillel serves many so-
cial functions beyond its religious role. Every
month Hillel hosts “Very Interesting Professors,”
where the students meet for an informal dinner
at the Sheridan Livery with a Jewish professor
for discussion and relaxation. The students also
take one trip each year. During Seth’s freshman
year, Hillel went to the Holocaust Museum in
Washington, D.C. 'I\vo year’s ago they went ski-
ing at Snow Shoe, and last year they went to the
Homestead. These trips allow for Jewish stu-
dents to get to know each other better, reﬂect,
and most importantly, relax.

Seth is quick not to take credit for the re-
cent success of Hillel; he attributes the work of
Joan Robbins, Director of Hillel, with “getting
things up and running [because of her] things
have taken off in terms of events and the num-
ber of students involved.”

Recently Hillel has begun actively recruit-
ing Jewish prospects to campus. Last year they

close.

operated a phoneathon to check in with and
answer any questions for prospective Jewish

students. Washington and Lee has a long Jew- I

ish tradition; at one point there were two Jew-
ish fraternities on campus but the number of
Jewish students had dramatically fallen in re-
cent years. Hillel’s hard work paid off: there
are only six Jewish students in the Class of
2006, but seventeen in the Class of 2007.

While the he celebrates the growing
number of Jewish students on campus, Seth
stresses the need for communication be-
tween minority and mainstream students as
the real solution to diversity at Washing-
ton and Lee. “You can get as many Jewish
or minority students as possible but the in-
teraction is key, that in and of itself will in-
crease the numbers [of minorities] and the
diversity [of campus]. That’s part of the rea-
son all of our events are open to the stu-
dent body,” Seth said. Seth and the mem-
bers of Hillel invite all of the Washington
and Lee community to their events—for more
information on any of their activities email
hillel@wlu.edu.

False Cape, VA proves truly wonderful

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL EDITOR

beach while the second night I stayed at the site. The area
does have men’s and women’s pit toilets and potable water

On the other side of the park, approximately also

Reading Days break when I watched the fire-red sun rise
above the ocean while two dolphins jumped out of the
glistening water. Although it is about a five hour drive to
the coast, I suggest, if you have the time, that you visit
False Cape State Park.

On the east coast, False Cape State Park remains
one of the few completely untouched and undeveloped
coastal areas. The park is landlocked on the North by Back
Bay Wildlife Refuge; therefore, to reach the state park, one
can hike or bike on the seven mile gravel road through the
refuge. If you are up for the walk or ride, it will be well
worth your time. Along the way, I saw wild horses, an
osprey, a beaver, and a raccoon,

Once arriving at the park, a short mile takes you to
the beach side camp sites. A grouping of. four sites sits
behind the first row of dunes; however,,each camp site
has a corresponding area on the actual strand to sleep. I
stayed two nights in the park; the first night I slept on the

a mile walk from the start of False Cape is a completely
different camping environment. This area sits on the
back of the island on the bay. There is much more shade
at this area, but it would be tough to stay barefoot
through the trip. I, on the other hand, did not wear shoes
from the time I arrived at the camp site until the time that
I departed. Each site has a picnic table and post to hang
food. With a camping stove, it can be extremely difficult
to cook in sand, but if done correctly, one can have a
delicious meal. On my menu, we cooked pasta and
quesadillas.

To access the park, you have to park in
Sandbridge, VA and walk down the road to the entrance to
Back Bay Wildlife Refuge Directions are available upon
request.

All in all, 5 out of 5 tridents for False Cape Q

 

Washingtnn and Lee
Swing

Crime cheer fer Wash.izig2:.on and Lee,
We’re gtiing in win 2i§li.3€i3.€?§’ v.i.£:tory;
1: ..e White and Eiite we wiii ever wave in -trinniph,
§-int‘ ‘tits: ijriiversity. RAH? RAH? RARE
iiigitt in the finish we are with yrni,
‘iii:-:a'ir tixrnugii the line an every play;
Rust: the haii. rm. drawn the field
and we xxxiti win t.i§i:;~: gams. today;

Wiaen Wasliiiigt;::m and i...ee’s men {:43} in line,

Wa°re gcing to win agaizsi anntiier time;

Fm‘ W&L i yeii. I 3:-aii, Ii yet}
. .«’-‘ind for the ¥'..?niversity: iyaii, like he-iii
 .3’~..n:;i we xvii} fight? 'i’i.giiti fight! fat every yard;
Circle tin: emit: and hit that ﬁne; rigiit tiara?
And we wiii. mii. these W'ai’i:ti{z$ rm the sod?
Yes by Cindi '{{..$X.Z~i? ii’.Ai-ii RAHE

Tapered leg pants vs. collars up

Let me begin by saying that un-
der no circumstance is it ever ok
to wear boots with fur on the top;
EVER, just don’t do it.

\Vith that said, on with the
show:

M i r i a in
Webster defines
taper as becoming
smaller or thinner
toward one end; I define taper
as the worst thing to happen to
pants ever (well, except maybe
for stirrups). Pants with tapered
legs should be reserved for
women over the age of 40 with
three or more children.

For those of you who aren’t
quite sure just what a tapered leg
is you should listen up because
you’re probably the one wear-
ing these atrocities. Tapered

. legs get slimmer the entire length

of the pant to the ankle in a V-

FAsH1oNisTA’s

no ﬁgure. These pants are a trade-
mark of all dorks and some who
aspire to be cooler than dorks. If
you have any hopes of getting
anywhere in this world, get rid of
these pants.
Their keyhole
sized foot
holes only
serve to make
your feet look like ﬂippers.
Darkwing Duck you are not, so
throw these tight ankled treasures
to the trash in exchange for jeans
with at least a straight leg, if not a
pair with a bit of ﬂare at the end.

Basically if you are a college
student and wear tapered pants then
youdresslikecrapandariealoser.
STOP NOW and go shopping.

On the other end of the spec-
trum are the holier than thous who
wear their collar up. I’m not go-
ing to lie to you, I’m a fan of the

FURY

this simple touch and when it is
ok to ﬂip it up.

Never ever wear your collar
up on the bill. This look gives
you an elitist attitude that just
isn’t appropriate for class. Ad-
ditionally: Freshmen Girls- col-
lars down. Wait until winter
term, then and only after receiv-
ing a-sorority bid can you even
begin to think about wearing
your collar up. And even then it
is only appropriate on weekends
or when out for the evening.

Collars up are a status sym-
bol and if you have no status,
lowly freshmen girls, stop try-
ing to pretend you do.

Basically neither your ta-
pered jeans nor your collar up
can make you cool, we all know
it’s the price tag on your SUV
that determines that. But as far
as I’m concerned the following
list of recent fashion faux pas

just go to further some individu-
als ability to be sucked in further
and further by the great black hole
of suck that is their fashion sense

Please remove the following
from your things to wear to class
wardrobe:

- Extremely short pink pleated
skirts. If your thighs are touch-
ing below your hemline it’s WAY
too short.

- Stilettos - Really, please
stop.

— Big busted girls in really tight
shirts, just gross y’all

- Red suede pumps. As the
“Etiquette Grrls” put it ever so
cleverly, “red shoes are for chil-
dren and whores,” enough said.

Just look before you leap and re-
member to check that mirror be-
fore heading to class, because I'm

like fashion and are ﬂattering to

collar up. But here is my take on

watching, I’m always watching.

 

ITS

Q Congratulations to Afghanistan for sending
their first contestant to the Miss Earth pageant in
30 years.

Q If you’re still wearing a nametag at 35—years-
old, you’ve picked the wrong profession.

Q Ifby eligible, you mean toolish . . .

Q I mean it, the light in the old SPE house should
really be turned off.

Q More on the old SPE house: The fire alarm
went off this week. Did one of the squatters start a
fire to keep warm?

Q Graham-Lees first ﬂoor Commons side is jeal-
ous of Graham-Lees second ﬂoor Commons side.

(I) If you’re going use headphones with the vol-
ume so loud that the entire room can hear your
music, why bother with headphones at all?

<1) Pat and Pierce: Big Four or Bust!

Q Our resident fashionista should reveal her

name so we could all follow her good example. Un- ,

til we see proof of her style savvy, why should she
have the last word on what looks hot?

Q Who is Jeb Brooks?

(1) Best rivalry: The Weekly World News versus
The Trident

Q Please, no more puking in the Kappa Sig house.
Q Freshmen should not vomit in urinals, but
should deﬁnitely continue to vomit all over the halls
of off-campus Kappa houses.

Q‘ Jeb Brooks has not submitted the Quick Hits
referring to Jeb Brooks.

Q Why was the location of Pretty in Pink, a

Kappa, KD, Theta party, behind a Chi-O house?

I Q So, it turns out the Board punted on the calen-

dar decision. Schedule your sit-in for February 5, 6
and 7.

Q Pretty in Pink had so much potential, but of
course there were only two kegs for the entire
school. All I’m asking for is a damn srat party that
has enough beer, a fim band and nobody bitching
about cleaning up the mess. The fraternities do it
every weekend.

(I) Cultivate school pride: Learn the words to the
Washington and Lee Swing. See above.

(I) The mechanical bull at Chi Psi was awesome.
Who knew W&L had so many talented riders?

Q Watch out with the lights out: There has been
a spate of under-the-covers bitings around cam-
pus.

(1) Word is there are a lot of twins in the freshman
class. How many? Don’t know, but no doubt its an
even number.

(I) Eden Parks’ is the only person running in the
Senior EC Representative special election who was
also a Homecoming nominee. ’

(I3 Keep your parents in line this Friday night.
Jeb Brooks will be on a ride-along with the Lexing-
ton Police.

(I> Ring-tum Phi, stickeri burn!

Q Even though the Marlins won, this year’s
World Series was a total and complete disap-
pointment. Damn the Cubs and the Red Sox!

Q‘ Granted the srat house driving / parking situa-
tion is terrible, but some of the Kappas and KDs
headed to 8 and 10 Frank Parsons Way drive way
too fast.

Q Is there anything colored manila besides ma-
nila folders?

Q Yesterday was Priest Appreciation Sunday.
What did you do for your priest?

Q The portrait of John W. Elrod now hanging in
the Commons Room of the John W. Elrod Univer-
sity Commons, reportedly cost $50,000.

(I) Who is your favorite security officer? I like‘Rex.

Q Why doesn’t anybody dance the minuet any-
more?

Q Kudos to Caroline Crawford and Caroline
McKinney for making the College Republicans’
Oktoberfest a great time. And thanks to Hobes for
hosting.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

