£313,755

" A

Speakers say
Rock on, Mock Con

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Boston’s mayor Menino called the
2004 Mock Convention to order early Fri-
day afternoon, just as he will at the 2004
Democratic Convention in July.

James Carville lived up to his nickname
the “Ragin’ Cajun” as he got the Warner
Center-hotting and hollering on a
Saturday morning.

Menino spoke
brieﬂy, emphasizing the ‘
need for elected ofﬁ-
cials to “engage” young ‘
people. “In July, I hope
my party will have
something new and
signiﬁcant to say the Ameri-
can people,” said Menino

Political Chairman Michael Denbow
called Mock Con a “daunting task” that
“sets the men and women of Washington

“and Lee part,” he said.

‘‘I will guarantee you yet another cor-
rect prediction,” said Denbow.

Virginia Governor Mark Warner spoke
during the first session of the Mock Con-
vention. Warner called the Mock Conven-
tion, “one of Virginia's greatest tradtitions.”

Warner compared the current Demo-
cratic race to his own campaign. He said
his campaign had been an unconven-
tional one that offered Virginians a differ-
ent message. His campaign made it pos-
sible to, “like NASCAR, hunting and
bluegrass and still be a Virginia Demo-
crat.”

When discussing the Presidential
race, Warner said he hoped that candidates
don’t, “get mired down in social issues,”
and that the next President will focus on
ﬁscal responsibility.

After his speech, Warner called the
Washington and Lee student body ﬁscally
conservative, “a reﬂection of the Virginia
electorate, but I don’t think they’re knee-
jerk conservative on social issues,” Warner
said.

‘‘I only got hooted at by a couple of
people,” he said of Washington and Lee’s
historic conservatism.

David Boren, President of the Uni-
versity of Oklahoma, and a former Sena-
tor for and Governor of Oklahoma,
praised Washington and Lee as a place
where, “honor is not just a slogan, but a
way of life.”

Boren called this Presidential election
the most important in his lifetime. The next
President needs to, “set as a top priority
rebuilding trust and respect of the U.S.
around the world,” he said.

America's standing in the intema-
tional arena was a common thread found
among the speeches given at Mock Con-
vention.

- In a show of support for General
Clark, former Navy Secretary
John Dalton spoke to the
crowd. Dalton indicted
President Bush for the

loss of support around the

world, saying that riots

start in the street when

Bush goes abroad.

“We are no longer respected

and trusted in the world,” said Dalton.

Dalton campaigned for Clark in New
Hampshire and D.C. and believes in him
because, “foreign policy is going to be a
major issue,” in the campaign said Dalton.

America needs, “a strong candidate
who runs as Commander-in—chief,” said
candidate General Wesley Clark via tele-

. phone.

Balanced fiscal spending was another
common theme. ‘There are times to be con-
servative and times to be liberal. . .and we
must be balanced in what we do,” said
South Carolina Representative James
Clybum at the second session of the Mock
Convention.

Political commentator James Carville
keynoted the Mock Convention, calling it
“one of the true great traditions on Ameri-
can politics.”

The Bush Administration doesn’t,
“deserve reelection. . .because they have a
cynical view of America and Americans,”
he said.

“Who are these clowns to tell the

Democrats anything about the economy?”

Carville asked.

Carville did not support any one
Democratic candidate, but said, “the only
way John Kerry is gonna lose this thing
is if he gets caught with a dead girl or live
boy.”

Carville criticized Bush the most.
Kerry is, “just a better man than Bush,”
he said.

The Mock Convention felt, “very
real” and, “gives the students here a sense
of the real momentum and excitement of
politics,” said Carville.

R WASIrllNGE)§ANDPT~1‘3 UNIVERSITY

lie student ooice of Washington and Lee University since 1897

| E-H MoNoAY,FEBRUARY2,2O04

/06 /7

Vottii/IECVILNOMII

PRESIDENTIAL

OOURTBY K‘ERRY.SE.NA'I'E.GOV

Decision 2004. Washington and Lee’s Mock Convention picked Senatorjohn Kerry  to be the Democratic
candidate to oppose President George W. Bush. The Convention selected Senatorjohn Edwards (D—NC) to fill the Vice
Presidential slot on the ticket. Check page seven for Mock Con memories.

OOURTBY EDWARDS.SB\IATE.GOV

Traveller makes changes for better

BY MAGGIE SPEASMAKER
STAFF WRITER

Over the past year, strong leadership and key changes
have strengthened Traveller, the safe-ride system that
serves the Washington and Lee community.

When Bailey Edwards took over as General Chairman
of Traveller this fall, he faced several problems. Traveller
was suffering from poor accounting, a record of unreliable
service, and student dissatisfaction. To remedy these prob-
lems, Edwards put his comrriittee to task.

“First we accounted for every dollar we had spent,”
said Edwards. “No busi-
ness can be successful
without solid account-
ing information, and I
think Traveller is no ex-
ception.” ‘

The Traveller Com-
mittee also determined

"ways that they could spend the 40,000 dollars granted to

9 them by the Board of Trustees at their October meeting.
Edwards, along with his committee, decided to use the grant
to expand their educational program and implement trial
periods for more effective operating procedures.

As a supplement to the safe-ride system, the Traveller
Committee is putting more money into programs that edu-
cate about the risks of drunk driving. “We have started an
education sub-cornrnittee where we are looking to bring in
speakers before Fancy Dress and Foxfield,” said Katie
Henderson, secretary of Traveller.

In addition to the education efforts, the Traveller Sys-
tem is undergoing new operational procedures. A trial pe-
riod is currently in effect testing these current changes.

Instead of having vans run the set route throughout town
on low volume nights, there are now dispatched drivers
every night of the week. The routed vans now run only on
Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday nights. ,

“In short, the biggest change is that you can call for a
ride from Traveller every night of the week to go any-
where,” said Edwards.

Although the trial period is not over, members of the
Traveller Committee are conﬁdent that these changes will
be beneﬁcial.

Students are making use of the nightly dispatched
car, even with pledges, and the numbers are expected to

rise even higher after
pledgeship.
Edwards says that the
Traveller education sub-
committee has produced
good results as well.
They held a campaign
trying to get people not to
drink and drive over Christmas Weekend that was an enor-
mous success. More than 300 students signed a pledge
and wore ribbons throughout the weekend indicating their
agreement not to drink and drive.

“The greatest prize came on Monday morning when
we learned that no DUI’s were given to W&L students
during Christmas Weekend,” said Jeb Brooks, chair of the
Traveller education sub—comrriittee.

At this point the only serious complaint that students
have about the Traveller System is the amount of time it
takes to get a ride.

“Our proposal for the Trustees raises this student con-
cern, and hopefully, we will be able to provide more drivers
in the future,” said Edwards.

Safehaven policy protects students who seek help for substance abuse

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

At a university ranked as
the #5 party school in the na-
tion by the Princeton Review, a
primary concern of the Wash-
ington and Lee community is that
students party safely.

The practice of Safe Haven
encourages students to act re-
sponsibly and seek medical at-
tention if they find an individual
whose health is in danger due
to substance abuse.

Simply put, Safe Haven en-
sures that students who need to
seek medical treatment for sub-
stance abuse will not face judicial
action. For the administration, the
practice is centered on ensuring
student safety.

“It’s a weighing of risks of
what practice will encourage and
not discourage responsible be-
havior,” said General Counsel
Leanne Shank.

Although the practice en-
courages students to act respon-
sibly, it could also be seen to pro-

mote irresponsible behavior.
Even if a student has committed
a strike as deﬁned by the Stu-
dent Judicial Council’s three-
strike system, if he goes to the
Student Health Center to seek
medical help, he and the indi-
vidual or individuals who took
him will be free from judicial ac-
tion.

While the administration re-
alizes this could promote irre-
sponsible dririking, they still be-
lieve that safety should super-
cede the threat of judicial action.

Grades suffer fall term slump

“My goal in sticking to this
practice is to make sure that stu-
dents don’t avoid indicated
medical care because of con-
cerns about disciplinary conse-
quences.

On the other hand, I don’t
want to see it abused, with high

. risk drinking practices promoted

because of a perception that the
Heath Center will just take care
of the consequences and no one
will get in trouble,” said Dr. Jane
Horton, Director of Student
Health Services.

Dean Watkins agreed that al-
though the practice involves a
weighing of interests between stu-
dent safety and disciplinary mea-
sures, in the end it works because
it places student safety first.

“If we think there is a persis-
tent problem with a particular or-
ganization or with a particular indi-
vidual, we’ll take another look at
our practice,” said Watkins.

From the perspective of the
Student Health Center, the issue is
one of medical confidentiality. The
law requires the Student Health

Center to keep all personal health
information confidential, ensuring
that students are in a ‘Safe Haven’
when seeking medical treatment.
“Medical confidentiality
comes first in a health care set-
ting. This has always been our
practice since I started working
here in 1987. T h e
only exception to this is if some-
one has been in repeatedly, is
felt to be a risk to themselves or
others, and is not cooperating
with evaluation/treatment for the
problem,” said Horton.

Spring term’s fate to be decided soon

BY CALEY ANDERSON
OPINIONS EDITOR

Grades are in for Fall Term 03-04, and as usual,
the Fall Term slump struck with a vengeance.

Students tend to do better with experience,
and so a large inﬂux of freshmen every Fall Term
tends to drop grades for independents, while even
more experienced students have problems be-
cause Fall Term tends to be somewhat more diffi-
cult than Spring Term.

As usual, sorority Pi Beta Phi led the field
with a GPA of 3.458. The Pi Phis have not been
shaken from their top spot since Winter of 2001,
when they finished second.

Fraternity Lambda Chi Alpha came in sec-
ond with a GPA of 3.416, a significant gain for
them, as usually either Kappa Alpha Theta or
Chi Omega comes in second.

Rounding out the top three was Kappa Al-
pha Theta with a GPA of 3.407.

.All the fraternities and sororities (as well as
the independent men and women) suffered a
lower GPA this term than Spring term of 02-03
with one notable exception.

In an exceptionally rare occurance, Chi Psi
improved their Fall Term GPA (3.176) over last
terrn’s Spring Term GPA (3.075), making them the
biggest gainer.

The second biggest gainer was Lambda Chi
Alpha, which actually lost .054 of a grade point,
but that was the smallest loss.

Another rarity was that the dubious distinc-
tion of biggest drop this year occurred with fra-
ternity Phi Delta Theta, which went from 3.268 to
2.990, a whopping .278 of a grade point. As a
result, the Phi Delts took over the cellar spot
from Chi Psi.

Ordinarily the biggest drop from Spring
Term to Fall Term are either the independent men
(3.085, a .262 drop) or independent women (3.184,
a .249 drop).

This drop is because all the freshmen are, of
course, generally counted as independents dur-
ing the fall terrn..

Data for the informal fraternity of Alpha Delta
Phi was unavailable, as the University Registrar
counts the ex—members of Sigma Phi Epsilon
(which was a middle of the ﬁeld fraternity in terms
of GPA) as independents

BY ANN STEWART BANKER
STAFF WRITER

After much anticipation, a decision on the
academic calendar could be less than a week away.
The Board of Trustees will open their winter meet-
ing Thursday, and according to Secretary of the
Board Jim Farrar, the calendar issue is the central
item on the Board’s agenda.

“They’ve been discussing the various calen-
dar options for a couple of meetings now,” Farrar
said. “They’ve got all the information they can
have.” Less than two weeks ago, the provost sent
an updated report on the topic to all 3 1 Board mem-
bers, in preparation for upcoming discussion.

Despite the extensive groundwork, President
Burish has stated that there can be no guarantee
that a decision will be reached. Farrar echoed the
president’s sentiment.

“We just don’t know how the conversation
will unfold,” he said. He does think a vote can be
expected as long as the Board feels they have all
the information they need. The plan for discus-
sion is fairly straightforward. On Friday morning,
the Board meeting will open with preliminary com-

ments from Rector N orwood and President Burish.
The various calendar plans will be reviewed, high-
lighting pros and cons of each. The treasurer will
make a presentation on the different options, and
then the topic will be open up to discussion and
questions. There will be time at the meeting on
Saturday morning for follow-up discussion, and if
all goes well, a vote will be made. I

Executive Committee President Helen Hughes
will be making a presentation to the Board on Fri-
day morning as well. At this point she is conﬁdent
that the Board is fully aware of the student senti-
ment on the issue.Hughes is hopeful that a deci-
sion can be reached, but she also realizes the weight
of the matter. “If they do not have enough time or
do not feel as if they completely understand all the
information, they won’t make a decision,” she said.

Assuming a decision is reached, the com-
munications ofﬁce will be ready to announce
the information through a 'campus—wide email,
likely to be sent on Saturday afternoon after the
morning meeting. The communications ofﬁce
also plans to post the decision once it is made
on the Washington and Lee web site as soon as
reasonably possible.

  

w E3 I by
r_EK‘f!‘R*. ,\'A %

FEB I15 20011
PAGE 2

P  ,

   

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

S

 

VMI unveils ‘Master Plan,’ construction to change opus

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF \vRrrER

The administration at the Virginia Military In-
stitute is working hard to launch their “Master
Plan”, which consists of renovations that will sig-
nificantly change the landscape of the nation’s first
state military college. The proposed construction
includes ﬁve new buildings, a parking garage, and
four athletic practice ﬁelds that would ideally be
completed in 12 years. _

The ambitious plan is still only a dream.
Fundraising the projected cost of $100 million has
not even begun. Col. Ken White, Director of
Marketing and Communications, said the idea
of a tuition increase “was shot down immedi-
ately”. Only one of the buildings is eligible for
federal support, due to the ROTC program that
will be housed there.

The school intends to rely upon contribu-
tions from alumni and other supporters. VMI’s
superintendent approached possible donors
about this dream before the “Master Plan” was
even drawn up.

“This is truly in its infancy,” said White. “It’s
contingent on so many things.”

Admittedly, it sounds like the brainchild of a
Bond movie villain. But the “Master Plan” is
really a heartfelt attempt to improve life at the
Virginia Military Institute. According to White,
the plan was not intended to make significant
changes to the quantity or personal qualities of
VMI cadets. Instead, its only purpose is to en-
rich the VMI community.

-Iidden Hero dispat

The plan proposes only one new class build-
ing. Along with that, it includes a ﬁeld house, a
student union, and an aquatic center with a pool
and all facilities. A leadership center with a 600-
seat auditorium will be used for seminars and guest
speakers. The parking garagejwill be built out of
necessity, since the leadership center will be built
on the site of the existing parking lot.

Construction of four new multipurpose
practice fields will bump the tennis court out
of its current spot and move the hiking trail
away from its current path. The administra-
tion considers these inconveniences to be on
the path to involving every cadet in intramural
sports.

According to White, making VMI a pedes-
trian campus is another dream of its superin-
tendent, General J. H. Binford Peay III. How-
ever, the roads along the parade grounds and
in front of the Barracks may be closed to ve-
hicles during the implementation of the.“Mas-
ter Plan”.

The “Master Plan” is a recent addition to
the list of construction projects in the city and
at Washington & Lee. But VMI hasn’t forgot-
ten other Lexington residents in their enthusi-
asm. Luckily, most of VMI’s projects will take

place in a way that exclusively affects the cam- '

pus. But Col. James R. Groves, Planning Of-
ficer, has been working closely with Lexington’s
city manager and city engineer to ensure the
smooth coexistence of all undertakings—just
in case.

“It’s important that we work very closely with

Mayock named Associate Dean of College Donate to save Music Festiva

Cher Ed Bolger prote

eRz'ng-tum P ‘

Jet Broo

‘ om‘-‘

Gimme Veemies! VMI Construction under “Master Plan” slated to take 12 years, will change the campus to

a pedestrian friendly one.

the city to coordinate all these projects,” said White.

Several changes have already been made
since the plan’s introduction in November. In
response to state pressure to increase enrollment,
the administration had planned to enlarge the
Barracks. That proposal has been postponed
due to the difficulty of designing a suitable addi-

During the weekends, campus security is in
the hands of one man. Ed Bolger’s official title is
‘Security Information Assistant’ for the Security
Department. He works the security/information desk
in the Elrod Commons on Fridays and Saturdays at
midnight. His job is essential, considering the na-
ture of the W&L campus on Friday and Saturday
nights.

Ed describes his job as assist-
ing the university community and
looking out for their safety. He
monitors several phones, a beeper
and several TV screens each of
which serve va speciﬁc purpose in keeping the cam-
pus secure.

He has been described as “one of the nicest men
you will ever meet.” He observes the speaking tradi-
tion with almost every individual that walks by his
desk. Ed loves this school, the students, and the fac-
ulty. He describes the student body as “the future of
America”, and praises the students for being very
respectful and sincere. His devotion to the school is
boundless — if it’s a problem for the students, then
it’s a problem that needs to be solved, he said.

Being around the students makes him feel “l0
years younger.” He said his favorite thing to do is

 
 

HIDDEN HEROES

BY KATHERINE SHELL

BY KYLE WASS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Washington and Lee announced _

the new Associate Dean of the College,
Professor of Romance Languages Ellen
Mayock, last week.

The position of Second Associate
Dean is a fairly new position, created
by President Elrod several years ago.
Mayock’s job description is to, “help
the College assess its academic pro-
grams and will assist in the accredita-
tion process, developing and tracking
the College’s capital projects, and hir-
ing additional full—time, adjunct and
visiting teaching staff for the College
and interdisciplinary programs.” Her
tenure as an Associate Dean begins
J uly‘ 1.

Mayock said she believes “that the
job description will evolve as I come

to understand better this new post and
the needs of the College faculty and
students.”

Mayock will continue teaching,
with a workload of one academic course

per term, and up to two courses per ‘

year in her three—year term as Associ-
ate Dean.

When the position of second as-
sociate dean was created, the idea was
that “the College manages the largest
number of faculty, students, depart-
ments, and programs on campus and
that the [current number of] adminis-
trative positions devoted to the College
were insufficient to handle the
workload,” said Mayock.

As Dean Stewart assessed the
strengths and weaknesses of this as-
pect of the College, she began to mold
the job description for the second as-
sociate dean.

Mayock has been at Washington
and Lee since 1997, when she arrived
as assistant professor of Romance Lan-
guages, and became an associate pro-
fessor of Romance Languages in 2002.

Mayock’ has considerable back-
ground and a special interest in 20'“ cen-
tury Spanish literature, and has a book
coming out later this year entitled “The
‘Strange Girl’ in Twentieth Century
Spanish Novels Written by Women.”

In her new role as Second Associ-
ate Dean, Mayock said she is “particu—
larly interested in deepening our com-
mitment to the liberal arts in real and
practical ways...[and] although [she]
feel[s] conﬂicted by leaving full—time
teaching for the next three years, [she
is] delighted to be able to maintain a
load of two courses per year and to con-
tinue to work with ESOL and Women’s
Studies.”

Need a rest from C
e Veryday life ?

Treat yourself to a luxurious
full body massage by

ATTENTION STUDENTS! ! ! !!

HOUSE FOR RENT

“In the Country”

Next School Tenn

STAFFWRITER

Fundraising to save Spring Terrn’s
Buffalo Creek continued last week. The
fundraising is a reaction to a recent
armouncement by the administration
that the festival could not continue due
to liability concerns.

Inge Hill, co—producer of the fes-

‘tival, collected funds last week in the
Commons to save the festival. Hill
collected several hundred dollars from
the students, and is optimistic that the
festival may be saved. If it is held, the
event will be smaller than in the past.

The late announcement of the

tion to the building. More changes will probably
occur before the”Master Plan’s” completion.
Though the “Master Plan” is not yet ready to
be implemented, the Keydet’s dining hall has already
been approved for renovation. Construction will
begin on March 1st to raise the hall’s capacity from
600 cadets to the current enrollment of 1300 cadets.

to simply watch the students as they walk by and
look at their facial expressions. “You can tell so
much by someone’s facial expression,” he said. He
also said that by exercising the speaking tradition,
you can brighten up someone’s day. When he sees
someone that looks in a rush or distressed, he
makes sure to say hi. ’

Bolger is a Virginia native from
Falls Church, near Washington,
D.C. He worked for Mar-not Cor-
poration until 1990, when he re-
tired. After that he worked as a
private classiﬁed defense con-
tractor with intemal security. Six years ago he de-
cided to move closer to his daughter who teaches
at VMI and his son—in—law who teaches here.

Bolger worked for W&L last year as well in the
old Graham-Lees security office. He likes the Elrod
Commons much better because he gets to interact
with the community more.

Bolger wants to get out and see more of the
country, but at the same time, he loves the
Shenandoah Valley. His advice to all students is a
vehement “Stay in school.” Also, be yourselves,
don’t change for anyone else, and appreciate the
faculty and staff here.

decision to discontinue the festival
will have a large effect on the ability
to raise enough money to keep the
Buffalo Creek Music Festival.

Hill is making additional plans
to raise money in the following
weeks.

He also hopes to gain recogni-
tion from the Executive Committee
in order to allow students to make
donations using University Cards.

Hill realizes that even a great
deal of fundraising carmot compare
to the amount of money spent in pre-
vious years on Buffalo Creek by the
IFC. He hopes the concert be en-
joyed by students this year.

Spend your summer in Wyoming on one of
America’s best guest ranches. Now hiring for
June 1 - September 11 and June 1 - Septem-
Check our staff web
www.coolworks.com/abara for details, or call Bob
or Margie Howe, Managers, at 303-838-1950. Bob
Howe will be on campus February 4. You can set
up an interview on e-recruiting. No need to post

her 25.

A Bar A Ranch:
Spend a summer in Wyoming

site at

cts students, loves Washington and Lee

'$T.—§)

Lease begins June 2004 a resume; you can bring it to the interview.

 f[a1”1"fS, BA, CMT

3654 Collierstown Rd.

1 EL C'ert1'f1'ed Massage Tlrerapjst‘ 4 Bedroom, fully furnished

Board 0fNurs1'ng Certified

1 3 Years Experience $1200/mo.

Gift Certiﬁcates Make
Great Valentine’s Presents!

 

Call Nancy Allison at
James Wm Moore Real Estate

28 South Main St. -463-7080 309 N. Main St. ‘
:.:: T (540) 264'0063 Lexingto , VA 24450 i

 

"$1. ,_,

 

Q

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

\

'iII%ii{[:\.’<i2~'§l.Mi’iil
1
~ )lTORlAL

The power of the press

The power of student publications is

  

‘ undeniable. The student press is free to

print whatever it chooses. As long as we
avoid libel and slander, we are freer than
any other student organization on cam-
pus. .
The Ring-tum Phi maintains a high
standard. Because we must hold other
groups accountable, we must also be
willing to take the high ground, even
when it is difﬁcult. Who holds us ac-
countable? Who is willing to stand up
and tell us if we do something wrong?
We are.

Campus newspapers have a duty to
print the truth. We must realize that what
we write becomes a matter of record.
Like it or not, what we immortalize with
a word processor becomes as-good-as
fact for ‘many readers. When we will-
ingly choose to print (or not print) some-
thing, we ignore the importance of that
trust.

Let it be known that the Ring-tum
Phi will correct any mistake we make.
We do our best to leave no stone
unturned in the search for the truth be-
hind a story. We try to avoid making
mistakes in the first place.

If we do make a mistake, we imme-
diately correct it. If we are found to be
in error, we correct the rnisperception we
created. We do this because we under-
stand that you, our readers, place a cer-
tain amount of trust in us. We will cut a
feature or even a few Quick Hits before

we cut a correction. We will not wait _

two weeks hoping something will die
down before taking action. We act im-
mediately because that is what we hope
you would do.

Any abuse of power is inexcusable,
and when something is brought to. our
attention, especially if they are egregious,
wepwill fix them. We do this because we

irespecti_you, our,r:ea.ders.V:We understand

that if we lose your trust, we lose
everything. We can only hope that other
student organizations might be willing to
take the same attitude.

 

“Last in literacy, ﬁrst in pulitzer prizes.”

-SpottedonaMississippi MockC0nT-Shirt

 

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor

Jeb Brooks
Kyle Wass

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor

Asst. Arts & Life Editor

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderman

Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Cody Gabbard

John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Arness
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Henry Grimball
Stuart Presnell
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington. Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir
Distribution Dir

observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

PHOTO CDURTBY OF

F0oI.’s ERRAND? Mars may hold secrets to the origins of life on Earth, as well as potential for colonization, but should we be focusing on our earthly problems?

NASA’s most recent mission to Mars has created a lot of buzz in the press. Proponents say that there are many practical uses for space
exploration, mining asteroids, terraforming, and colonization, but detractors say that it’s all a pipe dream compared to other problems that
require our attention and money. Today ajunior and a Freshman square off on this interesting issue of intrepid exploration

Pro _.
ANNE FINLEY, ‘O7,

A lot has been happening recently in the exciting world of
space exploration. A new mission to Mars has uncovered more
invaluable data about the composition of rocks and the possi-
bility of water on the planet’s surface. What would this mean
for us? There is a very strong possibility that Mars may have
developed similarly to our planet in a way where it would have
at one time been possible to sustain life. Such a concept opens
a world of possibilities. And increasing NASA’s budget, like
President Bush recently did, could one day lead to a manned
mission to Mars and the kind of answers that only can come
from first—hand exploration. .

Many will wonder why it is important to spend billions of
dollars in order to understand our universe and our future pros-
pects. They will wonder whether the money could have been put
to better use, to solve the array of problems facing us already in
our lives on earth. The answer is. yes and no. We have many
problems and they are real and significant. Yet, I believe it is
our duty to use our technology to find out what we can. There
will never be a time when the world is perfectly stable and at
peace, thus there is no better time than now to devote all avail-
able resources to the study of space. It must be an ongoing
effort, one that develops and progresses with the changing
times. Think what the world would be like if no one utilized or
developed technology and if countries refused to put funds aside
for research. We cannot say that space exploration is unimpor-
tant to our daily lives. We do not yet know all that it has to
offer.

I wholeheartedly believe, and scientific research supports
the possibility, that there must be other planets which are ca-
pable of sustaining life similar to that of our Earth. Besides the
fact that the presence of water on a planet in our very own solar
system suggests that it once or one day could contain life, there
are billions of other solar systems in our almost infinite uni-
verse. It is illogical to think that there could be no other planets
like ours, no other people similar to us. Like the movie Contact
aptly put it, if there weren’t more instances of intelligent life in
our vast solar system, “it would be an awful waste of space”.
And such a thing would be important for us as human beings to
know and care about. We may not be alone, and this prospect is
very exciting and worth exploring.

There are many potential uses for space exploration; it's not
just something we do out of hubris. Not only do the water de-
posits and chemical leftovers on Mars indicate that there was

‘once possibly life on Mars, which is an exciting prospect for us

to explore, but Mars could be useful as a mineral deposit for
mining, as a possible site for colonization some time in the fu-
ture, and other such potentialities. This is true not only of Mars,
but of all space exploration. The more that we know of the uni-
verse in which we live, the greater the potential for the human
race.

If we give up on space exploration now, we will be missing
out on valuable information which we have the capabilities of
knowing. We are an affluent and technologically advanced na-
tion. We are already doing all we can to tackle the problems
facing our nation, with people researching cures for cancer, vol-
unteering in soup kitchens, and working with the children that
are our future. We must devote money and resources, though
not to the same degree, to the exploration of space. If maintain-
ing our Earth is vital for our present well—being, than learning
all we can about our universe maybe just as imperative for our

Con
TRAN KIM, ‘O5

“So?” That was the first thought that came to my mind when I
heard that a Mars rover had come across some rocks on the red
planet. The NPR piece went on to say that scientists think that

these rocks could have possibly been formed from water, which“

would be a very thrilling discovery in their opinion. With all due
respect to science and technology, I frankly do not give a damn

_whether or not Mars had a drop of water on its planet two million

years ago, two days ago, or two hours ago. How does the_ discovery
of water impact my lifeand the lives of billions of people on earth?

Just when I thought that George W. Bush could not make any
more senseless policies, he disappoints me with this one that pro-
poses a $12 billion increase over five years on new space explora-
tion programs. He also wants the United States to return to the
moon——again. We already did it once and as fascinating as the
mission may have been, what was the point? There is nothing on
the moon but the moon and its rocks. If the astronauts had returned
with a critical element vital to the discovery of a treatment for can-
cer, I would applaud their mission.

The entire fallacy of the space program is in its basic endeavors
to quench a curiosity about life beyond earth and to somehow fulfill
America’s narcissistic sense of accomplishment. As amazing as these
accomplishments are, I am not terribly proud of them. When we
have discovered a way to combat poverty, to combat cancer, and all
the other problems that affect human beings on this planet, I will be
proud.

Here is the rundown of the problems that Americans face alone:
hunger, homelessness, lack of healthcare, joblessness, illnesses, etc.
The list doesn’t stop. These are the problems that we need to solve,
not why did Spirit malfunction. Why are we so eager to tinker with
tools and build space machines? Why aren’t we tinkering to end the
problems that destroy human beings on a daily basis? Space will
always be there for us to discover and enjoy, but will we be around
to discover in the future the way we are progressing now?

There’s an old saying that there is a time and place for every-
thing. At certain points in our lives, we are meant to do certain
things because it is the right moment. We can’t run without having
first learned to crawl. There are appropriate times to have fun and
there are times when we need to work, and as students, if you do not
know how to differentiate, you are probably on 'a course to failure.
Likewise, there is a time for us to discover space and enjoy all the
wonders that are beyond our planet, but this is not the time.

We are at a critical juncture in our lives when there are more
problems than ever before. We didn’t have diseases such as Aids,
Mad Cow Disease, the Chicken Flu, and the various cancers that kill
human beings. Nor did we have the large amounts of homelessness,
poverty, and social problems that also kill human beings. These are
the problems that we must tackle. Not until we have improved the
lives of human beings that we can move on to frivolous endeavors
such as Mars. The exploration of Mars, similar to the parties that
Washington and Lee students so delight in, are simply not impor-
tant to the real world and its problems.

The problems that plague the human race are not easy to solve
and it takes much time and energy, but I don’t believe that they are
impossible to solve. But we can’t simply give up and run away to
another issue simply because the first is a little too hard‘. When we
have the solution to ending poverty or curing cancer, the sense of
accomplishment will be much more satisfying than finding out there
is water on Mars. It’s the difference between getting an A in Profes-
sor Velasquez’s philosophy class and being able to guzzle a dozen
Bacardi shots at the bar.

 

The Supreme Court agreed

gOVCI‘l’1II1Cl1t I1CCdS an age

relevance of the 18-year-old

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2,2004

but

4 more COURTESY or
END OF THE LINE- Capital punishment is a part of U.S. justice, but should minors be eligible for execution in the right circumstances, or should everyone under 18 be exempt from the laws that govern the death penalty?

rather life

last week to consider once
more the Constitutionality of
executing minors for death
penalty offenses. The
specific case is that of an
i n d i v i d u a I
named Chris
Simmons, who ,
was 17 when he '
robbed and
murdered a passerby. The
court, which is typically a 5-
4 conservative court, usually
upholds capital punishment,
but recently did decide
against the execution of the
mentally retarded and
incompetent, so the ruling on
this issue will be closely
watched. .

It’s my belief that age is a
number, and that it’s not
necessarily a measure of

  

limit for some things, like
voting, that wouldn’t

otherwise have a standard by’ 

which to go, the death
penalty is too serious to
enforce an

Wimfmj age limit law.
MODERATE SMUSINGS T h C
CALEYANDERsoN‘O6 argument is

there are

some minors who were
perfectly aware of what they
were doing, and chose to
commit a capital punishment
offenses nonetheless. I agree,
to a point, that such
individuals are deserving of
the death penalty Whether or
not a 13 year old would be
capable of doing this, I’m not
sure, but my point is that it
should be taken on a case by

age marker should be that
people 18 and above should
be assumed*to'be' comp eterrt
to stand a death penalty trial
(unless there’s some
extenuating circumstance,
such as mental retardation).

I’m not saying whether the
death penalty is a “good” or
“bad” issue, so no raging
letters to the editor on that,
please. My main idea is that,
as a matter of law, the
Supreme Court should rule
that execution of minors must
be upheld, but only in cases
where a very stringent
standard of competence has
been upheld.

To use a personal example,
when I was 16 and a high
school Junior, my particular
high school, Santana HS in

latest to be shot up. 15
students were injured, and an
additional two were killed. An

2El"(l'(':lit'i‘(5If3.’l” couple 'd6'Z'eT1' W""é'1'‘é "‘

shot at without being hit,
myself included. The lone
perpetrator of these killings
was convicted of murder and
attempted murder, and my
entire community was
watching closely to see
whether or not it would be
possible for him to be
executed. The controversy in
California was that a
referendum had specified that
minors could be tried as
adults, but no specification of
the death penalty was made.
The lawyers for the killer
challenged the law and lost,
and he was tried as an adult.
The prosecutor, however,
made the right decision and

penalty,
imprisonment. The student
was 15 when he fired the gun,
a1'id"the prosecutorbelieved
that that was too young to
be completely sure of what
he was doing. It is instances
like this that prove that our
judicial system is one that works.
Our prosecutors do not
automatically seek the highest
penalty, they seek the penalty
that they believe is just. The
whole system is oriented to
create a just result. In this case,
the shooter received a life
sentence with parole
possibilities at the age of 60.
Do I think this is right? It’s
difficult for me; one of those
who died was my friend, as
well as several who were
injured. I myself remember
him randomly selecting me as

me and firing, missing my
head high by about a foot.
Nevertheless, I can
sympathize a little bit with
him. He was an adolescent
who’s going through the
chaos of a public high school,
a chaos made worse by the
fact that he had just moved
there and was not exactly
getting along well with his
new peers. Certainly, I don’t
completely pity him and think
he should be treated
leniently, far from it. What I
believe in is the ability of a
court to look at and judge a
death penalty case fairly
based on the accused
individual. I had great
confidence in our judicial
system to deal with this issue
on its own when the accused
was guilty of a crime against

maturity. While the case basis.

Letter to the Editor

Finley wrong on Minority Weekend

Dear Editor,

After reading an article published on
January 19th, it is once again brought to our
attention that many students on campus do
not understand the issue of diversity that we
all face. The Princeton Review has ranked
W&L as the second most homogeneous cam-
pus in America. This is not a ranking to be
proud of, so it would be understandable that
the administration is trying to dispel this
title. The Minority Student weekends were
established to help the W&L community be-
come much more diverse.

These students are sent a letter from the
university stating what the weekend is a MI-
NORITY student weekend. These are stu-
dents from various areas and various ethnic
minorities who come for the weekend to see
what W&L is all about. The article written
by a Ms. Anne Finley would lead us to be-
lieve that these weekends are not “condu-
cive” to genuine diversity. She starts off
saying “You may have noticed an unusally
large number of prospectives on campus this
weekend.” How would she know this? It is
only because they were minority students.
Is 16 an unusually large number? Well, this
is how many minority students were on cam-
pus.

She claims to want diversity, but when
efforts are made to diversify the student
population, she has an issue with it. So let’s
get to the core of her motivation for writing
the article. As she stated herself, she was a
little “jealous” that her “minority” friend was

The only Santee, CA, became the

did not seek the death

a target, leveling’ his pistol at

me, and I still do.

invited to the campus for free. It is true that
Washington and Lee pays for the travel ex-
penses and meals in the dining hall for mi-
nority students visiting the campus for the
weekend, but do they not do the same for
athletes? If you are going to attack the sys-
tem for one group, you should attack it for
all groups involved. This practice is not
unique to only Washington and Lee. Many
other leading universities around the coun-
try including Williams College, Emory Col-
lege, Dartmouth College, and many others
have similar minority student weekends. She
states that “no one wants to feel that they
are only wanted for how they look on pa-
per”, yet aren’t we all statistics? The state
you come from makes you a statistic, your
gender makes you a statistic, your test
scores make you a statistic, and the fact that

_you were accepted into W&L makes you a

statistic. So this argument is invalid. The
article written was highly insensitive to all
minorities on campus.

It implies that minority students receive
preferential treatment solely based on their
race. This only propagates the notion that
minority students do not deserve to attend
W&L. Not only is this belief not true, but it
makes the minority student’s four years here
all the more difficult. If she truly believes
that we can improve diversity on our cam-
pus only by “changing our attitudes and ex-
uding a sense of openness and tolerance,”
she should have reexamine the premises of
her article, and apply this belief to the mi-
nority student weekend. If she or anyone
else is interested in minority affairs, feel free

to join the Minority Student Association,
which does not exclude anyone based on
race.

Sincerely,
Cherelle Moser
Marcus Banks
E’Lon Cohen
Cynthia Cheatham

Response from Anne Finley, ‘07

When I sit down to write an opinions edi-
torial, I do not try to be controversial. I do
not attempt to make my headlines inﬂamma-
tory to attract readers; in fact I have never
even written my own headlinefor these pieces.
I am deeply saddened that readers have found
my piece on the minority weekend insensitive,
because promoting tolerance and open-
mindedness has consistently been my primary

goal and topic throughout my first year as at

Ring-tum Phi columnist and Washington and
Lee Student. But let me respond the best I
can. First of all, I whole-heartedly agree that
the Princeton Review Rankings regarding
Washington and Lee’s homogenous structure
and lack of race interaction are not something
to be proud of. In fact, if readers still had a
copy of my first article from back in late Octo-
ber, my critic’s remarks sound like they could
have been a direct quote from it. We are on
the same side. Some particulars of my article
may not have been perfectly well-informed or
to their liking, but I maintain that the general
spirit of it was of the best intentions. I did not
mean to criticize the weekend or the valuable

work that the administration and MSA per-
form to help diversify our campus. I am glad
to hear that some minority students received
letters detailing the nature of the event, but I
still know personally of at least two instances
where this was not the case. My motivation
was not the personally—insulting suggestion
that I was merely jealous of my friend’s all-
expenses—paid trip to campus. I ask only that
people who would attack another’s article read
it carefully first and attempt to understand its
true spirit. So many of us read only the head-
line, rashly decide what they think it is say-
ing, and then respond harshly.

-Anne Finley

Letters policy

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all
responsible submissions and let-
ters. All submissions must be
emailed to phi @wlu.edu or in the
University Center mailbox by
5pm Friday to appear in the fol-
lowing Monday ’s Edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right
to edit submissions for content
and length.

‘>-

U

  

JOHNHYLAN)
AsnrANrS1>oRisEono1<
mm m

MONDAY, JANUARY 19,2004

Sf

 

PAGE 5

Mens’ hoops loses heartbreaker, storms back with solid victory

Team losses to no. 4 ranked Randolph-Macon,
comeback and beat Averett to advance record to 4-14

BY JOHN HYLAND
Ass1sTANT S1>oRTs EDITOR

The W&L men’s hoops
team dropped a tight home de-
cision to Randolph-Macon, the
fourth ranked team in the coun-

'try on Sunday afternoon but
turned around and took out
their frustration on Averett, in
a non-conference match-up to
improve their record to 4-14 on
the year.

The Generals struggled of-
fensively in the first half
against Randolph—Macon,
shooting just 32% from the ﬁeld
and only connecting on eight
field goals. They were able to
make their free throws and play
tough defense and trailed just
28-26 at halftime, as they looked

56 loss to the ODAC leader. The
Generals continued to hang
tight in the second half and
took the lead 40-39 with 13:11
remaining on a four point play
by freshman guard Chris
Halkitis. The Yellow Jackets
broke a 48-48 tie with 8:29 re-
maining and never trailed again.
The Generals would get as
close as three points with un-
der a minute left but the Yellow
Jackets were able to make their
free throws and preserve the 66-
61 vietory. It was a familiar sce-
nario for the Generals who have
consistently played good bas-
ketball against some of the best
teams in the country this year,
only to lose games in the ﬁnal
minutes. Halkitis contributed 19
points and 8 rebounds to lead

double figures by senior co-
captain Hamil Jones who added
10 points.

On Wednesday, the Gener-
als hosted winless Averett,
hoping that their solid efforts
could finally earn a victory.
W&L jumped out to an early
first half lead, shooting a solid
53% from the ﬁeld and using a
16-2 run to take a 41-25 halftime
lead. The Cougars started the
second half on a 9-2 run of their
own and closed the lead to 43-
36 but it was as close as they
would get. The Generals depth
was apparent throughout the
game as ten players got signiﬁ-
cant playing time. The Gener-
als bench outscored the start-
ers 53-29 for the game. W&L
was also able to use a distin-

to avenge an eary season 75-

Swim teams win ﬁna

BY ANN BANKER
STAFF WRHER
In their last home meet of the season, the Wash-
ington and Lee’s men ’s and women’s swim teams
defeated the Marymount Saints on Saturday after-
noon. The men’s ﬁnal score tallied 117-60. The la-
dies came out ahead in a tighter ﬁnish with a score

the Generals. He was joined in

guishable size advantage in

home meet against Marymount

400 Medley Relay that stole the show. Starting
off the relay with the 100 Back leg, Ritter swam an
impressive 5 1 .38. With this A-cut lime, Ritter broke
the pool record, making him only the second male
General to hold a record in the Cy Twombly Me-
morial Pool. ,
Overall, the men won seven individual

defeating the Cougars. Sopho-
more forward Phil Landes
scored a career high 20 points
and added 7 rebounds and
Jones contributed another 14.
The Generals outrebounded
the Cougars 48-30, led by 10
boards from Halkitis. Freshman
guard Coleman Lyons also had
a solid evening in scoring 14.
W&L was able to overcome a
paltry 18 of 34 performance
from the foul line by shooting
50% from the ﬂoor and hold the
Cougars to 38%.

Hopefully, the Generals
will use this victory to give
them added confidence when
they resume their conference
schedule. They played
Roanoke yesterday evening
and host Emory & Henry on
Wednesday.

STEVE NIARINOS

Gorr AIR. A General takes it to the goal in the team’s victory over Averett.

Eastern Mennonite downs womens’ basketball 98-59

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

HARRISONBURG, Va. —— Eastern
Mennonite used a 21-3 rim over 7:18 of the first
half ir1 cruising to a 98-59 win over Washington
and Lee in ODAC women’s basketball action on

Tuesday evening.

by as many as 42 points in the second stanza. The

_ 98 points were also the most ever scored against a

W&L women’s basketball team.

The Generals (8-10, 5-8), who shot just
25 .7 percent (9-35) in the first half, were paced by
sophomore guard Louisa Feve’s (Bethesda, Md./

of 106-97. events. Junior Chris Colby, sophomore Clark The Royals Winston Churchill) 22 points on 5-of-9 shooting
For the women, seniors Jackie Green and Barrineau, and freshmen Michael Ginder and (15-1, 11-1) helda from beyond the arc. Senior forward Sarah
Mandi Kimble each won an individual event. Green Kevin Hayes all placed ﬁrst, Barrineau and Ginder slim 16-12 lead with Michaels (Norfolk, Va./Norfolk Academy) added
won the 200 Fly, swimming it in 2:28.12. Kim le took in two events each. 12:01 remaining in 11 points.
the 1000 Free with a time of 11:42.19. The Generals have some down time before the ﬁrst half, but Carn'e Grandstaff paced ﬁve Royals in
Sophomore Kristine Holda and freshman Abbie their next meets, but by no means will their train- saw the lead balloon double-ﬁgures with 19 points on 5-of—6 shooting
Sauter also won individual races for the women. ing ease up. The men face their next challenge at to 23 points (49-26) from three-point range. Amanda Reynolds scored
Holda took first in the 200 Free and Sauter won the the Bluegrass Mountain Conference Champion- by halftime. The 18 points and Laura _Ludholtz contributed 13
200 Breast. ship starting Feb. 13. The ladies do not compete Royals shot 53.0 points and nine rebounds.
For the men,senior captain Eric Ritter was star again until Feb. 20 when they travel to Radford percent for the game Washington and Lee returns to action
of the meet. He placed first in the 200 Back with a for the ODAC Championships where they are and forced 22 W&L on Sunday as it hosts Roanoke for a 2:00 pm

time of 1:53.79, but it was his performance in the

ranked to win.

 

turnovers in leading

COIIICSI.

  

become a doctor.”

 

Rality:

“I don’t have the

      
    
     
 
   
 
   

  

   

H’
_   , required courses
7‘ TheJohns Hopkr ost—Bacca so ureate , ”
Premedica| Progr m for medical school.
graduates with‘ s   ng cadem' records to  
1

apply to the best sch Ols by giving
them the persona attentiol A ‘H e necessary
t science and mat courses, a  
academic advisin

 

' If you or someon you know wants to pursue a
career as a doctor apply by March 1.
For more informat n, visit , I
‘pp www.jhu.edulp<$s ac or call 410-516-7748.
IOHNS HOPKINS
Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program
" Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

 

  

PAGE 6

 



‘ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

Generals’ spring sports preview: lacrosse, baseball

Mens’ lax has high expectations

BY CAM GARNER
STAFF WRIFER ,

Loaded with talent, the W&L Men’s Lacrosse team is poised for
a truly stellar season thanks to a talented and experienced senior
class and depth at every position. A 10th place ranking in Faceoff
Magazine’s preseason poll does little to illustrate the potential this
year’s team has. “We have great team chemistry this year,” says
senior midﬁelder and Co-Captain Jimmy “Hunka” Zunka, “Everyone,
including a large number of freshman, will contribute this season. . .the
team is gelling already.” You are right, Jimmy, gellin’ like a felon.

Anchoring a defense that led the ODAC in goals allowed (83) is
two-year starting goalie and Captain Ansel Sanders. Averaging 5.88
goals allowed and a .608 save percentage at the end of last season,
Ansel garnered First Team All-ODAC and Honorable Mention All-
American status last season and will no doubt build on their accom-
plishments in his senior campaign. Backing Sanders up is freshman
standout Chris “dollaz” Lalli, who will do his best to ﬁll the shoes of
departed netminder Pat “” Casey.

The defense also returns Senior Captain Lawson “Grumbino”
Grumbine and Junior Eric Koch, two physical defenders that helped
Ansel shut opponents down last season. Stepping into the starting
role at the third close-defense position is Junior Bill “Bruiser” Fox,
who is ready to lay down a beating or two this season. “Koch, Ansel
and I have played together for two years now, and Fox will step right
in and play well for us...our defense will be one of the best in the
ODAC again this season” says Grumbine.

Kenny Rasanmy will assume the longstick midﬁeld responsibili-
ties, ﬁlling the void left by the departure of All-American Matt Conners.
Junior Ben Morris and Freshman Peter Goodwin will share time at
longstick midﬁeld as well. Zunka, Junior Adam Chesbrough and Fresh-
man Charlie Clark will handle the defensive midﬁeld for the Generals.
The team will use a number of different players to attempt to replace
starting Faceoff middie and Captain Tommy Melanson. Juniors Mike
Baracco and Adam Chesbrough, along with freshman Corey Gaber
will each take their share of draws this season.

In the midﬁeld, the Generals return a number of key players.
Senior captain Dustin “I’m the man” Martin returns after a great
junior season in which he had 22 goals and 9 assists, earning him
First Team All-ODAC and Honorable Mention All-America honors.
Rounding out the first midﬁeld are seniors Mark McLewee (15,10)
and Mike McNamara (4,2). McNamara missed a substantial portion
of his junior season due to a knee injury but as senior midﬁelder Rich
“chicks” Williams puts it, “this season is the return of the booosh.”

The second unit is much more green, featuring freshmen Jim
Ryan and Matt Arcati, and sophomore Perrin “actually, I’m wearing
three collars” Monroe (3, 0). Although they are '
young, Head Coach Mike Cerino will be looking
to the young, talented second line to provide a
solid scoring punch that will take a bit of pres-
sure off the attack unit.

Leading the attack again this year are Senior
Matt Fink and Junior Gavin Molinelli. Fink paced
the team with 35 points last season, while
Molinelli produced 31 points and was named
Honorable Mention All-ODAC last season. The
third attack position will feature a number of dif-
ferent players this season. Senior Rich Vlfrlliams,
Juniors Body “Jack” Murray and Gabe Katz, and
Freshmen Grant Martin and Jason Fitzsirnmons
will all rotate through the attack this year. “Ev—
eryone who steps into that third attack spot will
contribute, especially Body, I mean, the guy had
four goals in practice the other day, how do you
stop that?” Williams mused.

This year is looking up for the Generals as
they start the season hotter than the vinyl ﬂames
on Ansel’s truck. The squad opens the season
at Greensboro on Febuary 20th and faces a strong
Washington College team the 28th. Come sup-
port the Generals this year as they seek their third
straight apperance in the ODAC ﬁnals and a run
at the NCAA tournament; Lord knows I’ll be

here

Womens’ lax looks to continue success

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRIIER

After a 2003 season of success after success, the Women’s
Lacrosse team returns to the ﬁelds to train and practice for what
they hope to be another proud season for the Generals.

“This season we are trying to take it to the next step and com-
pete with the top teams in Division III,” said senior Kelly Taffe. Taffe
was recognized last season as a ﬁrst—team All-ODAC attacker along
with her teammate, senior goalie Joanna Perini. Perini and Taffe will
team up with nineother returning starters to guide the Generals to
victory this season. .

Leading the efforts will be Coach Jan Hathom. Hathom also left

last season with honors. Named the Intercollegiate Women’s La-

crosse Coaches Association Di-
vision III South Atlantic Coach
of the Year by her colleagues,
Hathom led her team all the way
to the Division III National Cham-
pionship last year. Hathom does
not intend to hold anything back
this year.

“Our coach has set a very chal-
lenging schedule for us and is
giving us the chance to step it
up a notch,” explained Taffe. “We
are practicing with more intensity
and setting our goals much
higher.”

Indeed, the rankings suggest
that the Generals have reason to
be proud. According to Lacrosse
Magazine Preseason Division III
polls, the Women’s Lacrosse
team ranked in the top ten of Di-
vision III teams.

As far as goals for the season
go, Taffe sums that up when she
says, “We plan to make it past
the ﬁrst round of NCAAsl”

«r=-. .> :' .
Courussv Sroms INroRMA'noN

Baseball hopes to build
on last year’s success  

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After ﬁnishing 2003 with one of the best seasons in school his- ,

tory, the W&L baseball team will try to eclipse last years heroics by
capturing an ODAC championship. Last year that goal eluded them.
The Generals ﬁnished 28-8 before falling to perennial ODAC jugger-
naut Virginia Wesleyan in the conference ﬁnals.

The bad news for the Generals is that they will have to overcome
the loss of three outstanding players to graduation, all of whom
received postseason accolades. Centerﬁelder Bobby Littlehale hit
.362 last season with one homerun and 23 RBI in addition to playing
standout defense, ﬁrst baseman Brian Gladysz, hit .358 with 4 homers
and 33 RBIs and ODAC player of the year shortstop/pitcher Michael
Hanson hit .371 with 5 homers and 23 RBIs and now plays in the
Atlanta Braves farm system.

The good news for the Generals is that their stellar pitching
corps remains virtually intact, a terriﬁc sign for a team contending for
a conference championship. The rotation is led by senior lefthander
Peter Dean, an all-state performer a season ago, going 8-2 with 1.67
ERA. Joining Dean in the starting rotation will be fellow seniors and
righthanders Mike Wert and Dan Kagey. Wert was 7-1 last season
with a 3.73 ERA while Kagey ﬁnished 7-3 with a 3.05 ERA. Kagey will
also be looked to for his bat as one of the most experienced hitters in
the Generals lineup. Playing the outﬁeld when not on the mound,
Kagey hit .274 with 10 RBIs.

The Generals will also rely upon senior righthander Bryan
Mulhem as both a starter and in relief. A season ago, Mulhem was 3-
1 with a 2.29 ERA in ten appearances. Just as importantly, Mulhem is
perhaps the best returning hitter in the ODAC. He will primarily be an
outﬁelderwhen not pitching. He was another all-State performer last
season, leading the team with a .392 average, 6 homers and 48 RBIs.
Mulhem will be joined in the bullpen by junior righthanders Brian
Higgins and Ken Hackman, who will get plenty more innings than
they did a year ago.

Mulhem and Kagey, along with junior catcher Zach Bausch will
solidify the middle of the lineup. Bausch hit .355 with 4 homers and 33
RBIs last year. Austin Allain will try to do his best to ﬁll Hanson’s
shoes. The senior will shift from second base to shortstop and will
assume the leadoff position. Last year, he hit .289 with a homerun and
33 RBIs and was second
on the team in runs
scored. The rest of the
lineup remains some-
what of a question mark.
Senior Paul Sibley and
juniors Chris Chaplin
and Warren Hunter pla-
tooned in the outﬁeld
last season and will be
expected to get even
more at—bats. Junior
Adam Bullock will likely
be the everyday third
baseman where he split ‘
time a year ago with
sophomore Scott
Gosselink, who moves
over to second. Sopho-
more Taylor McConnell
will likely start at ﬁrst. If
these players succeed in
assuming larger roles in
2004, the team will be in
great position to top last year’s heroics.

- Hunter gives the best outlook for the upcoming season, believ-
ing, “despite some of the question marks at the bottom of our lineup,
we will go as far as our pitching takes us.” The Generals hope that
superb pitching staff will take them to a conference championship.
Their season opens on February l6tlr at Oglethorpe.

  THIS WEEK’s SCI-EDULE

Tuesday, February 3 Wednesday, February 4 Thursday, February 5 Friday, February 6 ‘Saturday, February 7 Sunday, F 9171744112)’ 3
0 W Basketball at 0 M Basketball vs. Emory 0 Open 0 W Basketball at 0 Wrestling at Albright 0 M Basketball vs.
Randolph-Macon and Henry-- 7:00 Guilford-- 7:00 T ri--11 :00 Lynchburg--3:00
Women ’s--7:00 0 M Basketball at 0 Track at Christopher
Hampden-Sydney Newport-- TBA

Ring-tum Phi

bhamaiws -#1 Simian! tau Operator

    

4»

$'fS'fRAVEl..COM

c/:m~1>eO'~..:cz:

   

teoasasasee J ststrwchtaua

Golf Etiquette Tip of the
Week:

If cl group is playing the course faster
than you, let them pass.

» #1 Spring Break Vacationsl

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!
Space is limited! Book Now & Save!
l-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

V’

\’

 

 

PAGE 7

 

MEGANMORGAN
ARTS &l..lPEEDll‘OR

EMAlLMORGANMl@WlU.EDU

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

More than mainstream: Calvin Awkward meets Greeks

BY KELLY JO LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

Frats, frats, frats. In honor of another year of
rush and pledgeship, we are featuring a student of
fraternal diversity. Calvin Awkward is among only
a handful of minority students in the Greek Sys-
tem; a sophomore history and politics major from
Accokeek, Maryland, he is a member of Chi Psi
Fraternity.

Looking back, Calvin rushed almost by acci-
dent. “Initially I wasn’t even thinking of rushing.
The thought hadn’t even crossed my mind,” Calvin
recalls. “If I would rush I knew I would go to a
historically black fraternity. But, I wasn’t going to
go to a historically black school.” Calvin came to
W&L for a lot of reasons including the academic
reputation, ﬁnancial aid and the small town atmo-
sphere. “I’m scared of big universities. There are
too many people,” Calvin explains.

Freshman year, Calvin started building friend-
ships in many of the houses across campus. “I
started building bonds with people and I realized

how much it [rushing] could affect me in the fu-
ture,” he recalls. In the end he decided to partici-
pate in formal rush. “I was one of only four African-
Americans who rushed last year. Surprisingly, that
was about 25% of the black freshman.” For Calvin,
it came down to SPE and Chi Psi, but he said that in
the end Chi Psi was where he would toss his hat.
“Halfway through fall term, I was calling the Lodge
my home. My bonds at Chi Psi were so much closer.
I really had a great bond with every guy in that
house. It wasn’t something I could ignore.”
Calvin is one of only a few African-Ameri-
cans active in the Greek system. Often, Calvin ex-
plains, blacks don’t rush because it’s “harder to
find a comfortable place in the system.” Also, many
are legacies at black fraternities and sororities or
their families won’t allow them to rush. “The black
community is not separate by choice,” he says.
“Like anyone else, you are attracted to people
you most connect with. Consciously, I don’t think
people try to build barriers. No group tries to com-
pletely separate itself from other people.” Calvin
explains, “The negative rumors turn them off to

the Greek system. There are problems in the sys-
tem, but there are problem between the majority
and minority in a lot of settings. There are prob-
lems that are everywhere; it’s just a lot more vis-
ible here.”

Calvin doesn’t buy into most of the stereo-
types about the Greek system though. “Person-
ally, I haven’t had an experience that would make
me question it [the Greek system] or make me won-
der,” Calvin says. “I’ ve felt accepted everywhere.
I’ve been accepted by those ‘racist’ frats. I really
don’t think that there are any real ‘racist’ frats.
There are racist people, not racist houses.” As for
rush, “it’s not the color of skin, it’s more the per-
son,” Calvin holds. “If you’re a cool guy and they
like you, they’ll give you a bid. If you’re an
asshole, they’ll kick you to the curb.”

Calvin has been successful in crossing over
into what is often seen as the “white students”
activity of fraternity life. Often, black students
have reported feeling “shunned” by their fellow
minority students after deciding to rush. Calvin
disagrees with this though. “I think it’s getting

better. I was treated no different by my black
friends after rushing.” This was aided partly by
Calvin taking an active role in the minority com-
munity. He serves as an officer in both the MSA
and in the gospel choir. He has also tried to en-
courage more minority students to rush. “I felt it
was my job to inform them about the rumors, the
drawbacks and the positive things about the Greek
system,” Calvin said. He was pleased that he man-
aged to get two black males to consider rushing;
though they decided not to in the end, they both
expressed thanks that they had at least given the
Greek system a chance. To other black freshmen,
he offers this advice: “Have fun here at W&L.
Experience new things, make new friends. Go out
into the community and become involved. You
only go to college once and the friendship and
memories you build will be with you forever.” Af-
ter all, Calvin explains, “Your experience at W&L
is what you make it. If you spend 4 years of your
W&L career saying that this place sucks, it is re-
ally gonna suck. I love this school. I feel like where
I am, with the support I have, I’ve been accepted.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE DEMOCRATIC MOCK CONVENTION 2004

 

JEB BROOKS

JEB BROOKS

HE TUM

Mock Con Memories. From the excitement of the parade to the energy in the Warner Center, many
students shed their conservative leanings to become Democrats for a day or two. The event was called a
success by most attendees. Speakers such as James Carville and Governor Mark Warner inspired students

JEB BROOKS / THE RING-TUM PHI

to work hard to make their final predictions. After all the delegate votes had been tallied, Kerry-Edwards
was the ticket the 2004 Washington and Lee Democratic Mock Convention chose. Washington and Lee
students will ﬁnd out how accurate their prediction is after the real Democratic Convention injuly.

  
   

JEB BROOKS

THE RING- TUM PHI

JEB BROOKS / THE RING-TUM PHI

University

The Ring-tum Phi wishes
the W&L student body

Thanks to
everyone who

good luck on upcoming midterrns

Cleaners

THE CLEANEST OF THE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING, "

LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Short walk to W & L and downtown. Remodeled C 
. r 1885 Historic home on Institute Hill. New kitchen
Great Service

with all new appliances. 4 B/R, 1 1/2 Bath, storage
F1rst—Rate Quality

made

HOME FOR SALE
704 No. Main St., Lexington

room and large laundry/workroom with washer &
dryer. Shows like a model home. Asking $229,000.

f l
Call (540) 464-3738 30 Success u

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

- ~.....__m

1'

 

 

PAGE 8 A

There’s this theory ﬂoating around about
college students. It goes something like this:

_college is a clean slate. No matter who you were
‘ before, you can go away, break out of your mold,
' and recreate yourself in college. Essentially, in

this new environment, you can be whoever you
want to be.

Sounds great on paper, right? The implica-
tions seem pretty sweet. You can
escape all the labels you've drawn
in the past, escape the niche that’s 
been dug for you in the pre-col-
lege world, and make a completely

  

new persona for yourself. You can go from band

geek to frat lord. You can go from unpopular
nerd to a hook-up master. In theory, there are no
limitations. The sky’s the limit, right?

Not quite. There is one thing we are limited

. _ by — ourselves. While we may be able to change

our behavior, our actions, or choices, it’s not
quite so easy to change our personalities. It’s

‘- not like we can just wake up one day and say‘
’ “Today I will be a different person.” It just

doesn’t work that way.

But some people try. To some people, it’s
so important to escape their “high school trap”
that they’ll try almost anything to experience
something new — even to the point where they’ll
try to be a different person. But it seems some-

. _: times that no matter how hard you try, it’s im-
L possible to escape that past...it’s always there,

at home, waiting for you to come back to it.

‘That’s what this article is about, the two differ-

Administration must CI

mABSOlﬁFllA”l'LORD
TIM SMIIH ‘O4

""""""""""""""" " about how they slept with some

 

ent worlds that we may never be able to recon-
cile — the college world and the home world.

No one can simply change themselves in an ‘

instant. Trying to do so probably causes more
harm than good — instead of making things bet-
ter for yourself, you cause self-doubt. You seem
fake to others. It’s transparent. Frat lords see
this behavior in freshman rather often — you
know those guys who decide
“W&L is my world” as soon as
they get here. They -come up
with those ridiculous stories

celebrity’s sister, or how they drank two cases
of beer once without even getting a buzz. They
try to impress us with this facade they’ve tossed
together, when really, all they show is the confi-
dence-issues of a guy who’s trying to escape
his high school past as soon as possible. Don’t
get me wrong — these aren’t bad guys by any
means. They just try to do too much too soon,
and in the wrong manner.

It is possible to change, or rather, to evolve
in college. I consider myself living proof.
Though I couldn’t necessarily prove that I’m a
different person, I can say confidently that I’m
more comfortable with myself now that ever be-
fore. People can interpret it however they want,
as loosening up, or as breaking out my shell, or
as some hypothetical descent into debauchery.
But to look at it that way is to miss the point.
Sure, I might act differently now than I ever did
in high school (much to the chagrin of my once-

MBGANMORGAN
A1us&LIIEDIIoI<
EMAI;MoRGANvr@w1IJIIIJ

proud parents...I know you’re reading this
Mom), but it’s not about breaking out of some
mold. It’s not about testing limitations. Instead,
it’s about comfort, about happiness, about self-
approval. As my undergrad years are approach-
ing their conclusion, I can finally say with con-
fidence that Tim Smith is an OK guy. '

So, while it may take time, college can pro-
vide that opportunity to evolve as a person. But
here’s the problem — people at home don’t want

‘ you to evolve. People at home want you to be

exactly the same as you always were, to fit the
preconceived notions that they’ve had for years.

High school is about stereotypes. It doesn’t
take a private viewing of “Not Another Teen
Movie” to figure out this truth. But what is it
about these labels that makes people want to
cling to them as long as possible??

Here’s an example. Once in a while at home,
I‘ll end up at some party where there are high
school folks I haven’t seen for years. Inevita-
bly, they’ll notice the beer in my hand, and sud-
denly all hell breaks loose: “Tim, You Drink! I
never knew you drank!" This has happened
more than once. Apparently, if you’re Tim
Smith, you are forbidden from enjoying a frosty
ice-cold beverage, because the label people
have attached to you doesn’t allow it. How
quaint.

People at home, unless you stay very close
with them, don’t bother to follow your life.
They don’t bother to think about you’ve
changed in your other college world. They pre-

BY JEB BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

The decision to bring
Washington and Lee stu-
dents, faculty and staff to

_ , campus last week was a bad
i one. Stories of cars careen—

ing, students stumbling and
faculty falling were all the
buzz while the Washington
and Lee community waited

» out last week’s snow storm

on The Hill.

The administration’s de-
cision ran counter to its as-
sumed purpose of keeping

P; students safe. Schools, busi-

nesses and other institutions
all over the region recognized
that opening during one of
the most treacherous storms
in recent history would be a
mistake. They remained

, closed.

Physical Plant workers
can do only so much when
snow and ice fall at such a
rate that the Colonnade side

7:: of the Lee Chapel path is al-

ready covered with winter
precipitation by the time

_ :. shovels have gotten to the
‘- bottom. As usual, the men

and women of that depart-
ment did an excellent job.
The weather was simply too

A A quick for any worker to stay

on top of.

The advice to “use your
best judgment and not come
in until roads have im-

proved” is hardly acceptable.
Students who decide not to
come in miss class time, which
they must make up for no fault
of their own. Other students
feel compelled to attend
classes regardless of such a
warning and come in despite
the grave danger of making
such a decision.

Students at Washington
and Lee will live off campus
along routes that the Virginia
Department of Transporta-
tion may or may not suffi-
ciently clear. University poli-
cies must recognize that re-
ality.

Unfortunately, it will
likely take student deaths to
make the administration
stand up and take notice of
the need to occasionally can-
cel classes because of
weather.

Thanks go to the faculty
who realized the danger and
decided that the safety of
their students was more im-
portant than the content of
their courses.

In short, the administra-
tors who decided to keep
Washington and Lee open for
“business as usual” took a
big risk.

Gentlemen, I urge you to
reconsider your decision mak-
ing process to account for the
dangerous conditions faced
by students, faculty and staff
who live off campus.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

A Theory of college evolution: changing your high school mold

fer to cling to their insulated rigid stereotyped
notions as long as they can, to the point where
they can’t bring themselves to comprehend the
person you’ve evolved into. To them, you will
always be “football star’s ex-girlfriend” or
“band-geek Valedictorian” or “grunge—stoner—
depression guy.” That’s what they knew you
as then. Why" should they bother to think of
you differently?

In college, there is some liberation. True,
we can’t just conjure up a new personality from
scratch — this isn’t some kind of “College Eye
for the High School Guy” makeover. But col-
lege at least frees us from those previous la-
bels, if only long enough to allows us to evolve
as people. We may not want to change. We
may not choose to. But college does provide
that opportunity, for those who choose to grasp
it.

But be aware, always, that the other world
will always exist. I know full well what I’m in
for when I travel home. I’m facing a host of
rigid-minded twerps who all too often refuse to
see me for anything else other than what they
expect. I have to deal with that, and usually, I
deal with it by returning to Lexington as quickly
as possible. Here, I can be myself, be the per-
son I’m comfortable with, without getting crazy
looks or shocked reactions.

High school was fun while it lasted. Now
let us all agree to pretend that high school never
happened. Maybe, just maybe, we’d all be a
little bit better off.

nange weather policy to keep students alive

FILE PHOTO / THERING-TUM PHI

When major snowstorms hit the Washington and Lee campus, Physical Plant workers can only do so much. The administration must begin to be
more conscience about student 

“is

 

.' .;1Q Professors need to ﬁgure out that there are
’ two Heaths in the Groupwise address book, An-

drew and John.

_Q Wow! Ronnie Dugger so inspired me I’m

headed to the polls for Dennis next Tuesday.

Q I wish I had a million billion dollars.

' L Q “AH(EN, S.C. (AP) — James Brown was released

from jail Thursday on a domestic violence charge
and told not to contact the wife he’s accused of
pushing to the ﬂoor.” Hrnrn, maybe To the-Nines

wasn’t such a bad choice after all.

Q Why is Oklahoma so windy? Because Kansas
sucks and Texas blows!

» Q I’m starting a napping club in my room. Any-
one want to join? Graham—Lees dumpster side.

Q Best T—shirt slogan that was not approved
for print: “Michigan— at least our illegal immigrants
are from Canada.”

Q Why do they clear the entrance to the old
bookstore when it snows? Is it vital to have ac-
cess to this empty building?

Q I said “gay” out loud the other day, meaning
festive, and some girl shushed me. PC people piss
me off.

Q You are the jelly in my peanut butter and jelly
sandwich. No wait, you’re the bread.

Q Something in their workout makes Lacrosse
players really booty-licious and apparently the
ladies can’t get enough of that ghetto booty. Hey,
l’d tap that.

Q Chaz—dunk has a really nice derriere and word
on the street is Lolli is handsomely endowed. To-
gether, they make the perfect man.

Q I thought the video clips circulating via e-
mail were hilarious enough, but even in my
drunken stupor, the live act made me convulse
with laughter.

Q Best pick-up line from a freshman KA: ‘‘I am
willing to risk it if you are.”

Q Yes, that was a live phone call from Wes Clark.

Q Would someone please tell me who this Kah
is that everyone keeps talking about?

Q Diversity at W&L: What color North Face
jacket do you wear?

Q The ladies of the Puerto Rican bobsled team
are the most fun people on campus.

Q «Guys, let’s not depend on our hook—ups and
their roommates for condoms. After all, the Health
Center does give them out for free . . . with bells on.

Q Girls, with this many date functions, there is
no reason why you can’t cover every guy at W&L
before you start importing.

Q When wearing extremely tight pants on the
Hill, be cautious of putting your hands in your
pockets. What happens if you start to fall and can’t
get your hands out in time?

Q Did anyone else hear the anonymous Ohio
delegation ofﬁcer saying how much she would like

to sleep with James Carville?

Q How about the anonymous California delega-
tion girls noting the sexiness of Wes Clark’s son?

Q Michael Denbow is destined to be a game
show host.

Q Don’t forget: Today is Groundhog Day.

Q How does James Carville do it? “She’s on the
bottom.”

Q W&L Men’s Swimming beat Marymount on
Saturday to finish the season 7-0 for their first un-
defeated season in years. And, it’s Coach
Shinoﬁeld’s first year.

Q All those sketchy RCHS girls at the Windfall
party really added to the atmosphere. But the RCHS

pages at the Convention were hot.

Q Did anyone else see the prison guard in leather
on the California ﬂoat?

Q Who was that guy in the Clinton mask during
the platform debate?

Q Kudos to those who held up a Bush/Cheney
‘04 sign during the nominating speeches.

Q Shedding a single tear: Sid Vicious of the Sex
Pistols died today in 1979.

Q In happier news, Shakira turns 27 today.

Q At press time, the Super Bowl wasn’t yet de-
cided. Congratulations to the winning team.

Q Brett Kirwan is NOT a tool! He’s my hero.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and plans
for Washington Break to phi@wlu.edu.

‘V

/\

 

