 

 
   

I

v!
a

= vi

1*-

Mock Con

» BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN AND ERIN JULIUS

» . STAEFWRIII<1tANDl\lEWSEIXIOR

. r, p

Washington and Lee’s annual Fall Convoca-

‘(J tion took place on September 10 at 5:30 in front of
Lee Chapel. President Burish welcomed the new

students and pledged support to the new faculty.

’ A ; His hope for this academic year is that it will be,

“at once exceptionally full, important, challeng-
V‘ ing and fulﬁllir1g,” Burish said. In his opening
remarks, Burish also lightheartedly referred to
Washington and Lee’s rise in national rankings
as, “pleasing, annoying and largely irrelevant.”

Buri sh also announced that the school would
begin an evaluation of several academic compo-
nents, including the general education require-
ments, minors, freshmen seminars and senior
capstones. He also made clear that a major goal

If I for this academic year would be making the Com-
mons a success.
William Connelly, professor of politics, gave
the Convocation address. His subject was the
- , 2004 Mock Democratic Convention, for which he
is the faculty advisor. Connelly described his
role with the Convention as, “limited and pas-
sive,” stressing that it is a student-rurr event.
, Connelly praised the nature of the Conven-
tion as being, “inherently non—partisan. . .students
put aside conviction for an accurate prediction.”
‘ He also quoted TIME Magazine as calling Wash-
A ington and Lee’s Mock Convention, “the biggest
and boomingest of all such student enterprises.”

He highlighted the past successes of the
Mock Convention, noting that there have been
17 of 22 accurate predictions, and only one mis-
take since 1948.

Again focusing on the student participation
with the Convention, Connelly said that by last
year, there were already 350 students involved in

.4, it, and that by the time Mock Convention week-
end is here, about 90% of the student body will
be participating.

WASHINGTONIAND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

The student voice of Warlymgton and Lee Um'I/emy time 7897

| I | |IMONDAY, SEI’1‘EMBERl5, 2003

 

VOLUME CV1, N0.VI I

the subj ect at Sept. 10 Convocation

.se..»—....,...,..,.

Connelly then praised certain traits of the Con-
vention, saying that it is, “as inclusive as possible,”
and that it is truly, “political science in action.”

He also reminisced about noteworthy events that
have taken place during past Conventions. A speaker
died instantly after speaking in 1956 and President Bill
Clinton played the saxophone for students in 1988.

“ School adds thirty-sixth major

- 1” BY CATHERINE SWAN
‘ SI:iE~‘Wl<IIEIt

Due to student interest and the growing 3
value of science in today’s world, Washington
and Lee added its 36th major, biochemistry, to

K the academic catalog. _

In order for. the biochemistry major to be-
come a reality, the proposal had to first be evalu-
ated by the Committee on Courses and Degrees,
which is made up of administration, faculty, and
students.

After the committee approved the proposal, the
faculty was required to take a vote.Once approved,
the chemistry department developed and ﬁne-tuned

.( the requirements for a biochemistry major.

K

The biology department also played a vital ‘

role in evaluating the work done by the chemis-
I try department by giving suggestions that will
help reﬁne the program in years to come.

A “We decided to add this major since bio-
chemistry is an increasingly important area of
science, and we thought that it was time to offer

9' W&L students the opportunity to get a more
specialized level of training,” said chemistry pro-
fessor Steve Desjardins. .

Desj ardin also cited the Pre-Health Profes-
sions program as a reason more students were
showing interest in biochemistry.

4 Two new courses were developed for the
biochemistry major. The first, Chemistry 343, is a

BY ERIN JULIUS
l\BX&DI(]l

Three Faculty Committees have prepared

‘( reports of proposed calendar changes. One re-

“ port discusses keeping and revising the 12-12-6

week calendar, one supports a 14-14 week calendar
u the third proposes a compromise ofsorts: a 13-
13-4 week calendar.

!‘ Calendar changes are
being discussed because of
several issues facing the
faculty and administration.
A chief concern is that of
the faculty workload.
Washington and Lee faculty
has the largest teaching

. load of any of the top 25 lib-

‘l eral arts schools. The average teaching load is

4.88; Washington and Lee has an average of 6.5
classes per year.

. Washington and Lee ’s large teaching load is

4 believed to hinder its ability to at1ract top-notch

faculty. The 14-14 proposal claims that regional

--— 13-1

Most supporters of the 13-13-4
proposal would also support or
even

preﬁr the 12-12-6 calendar.

biochemistry laboratory course.

Assistant professor of chemistry, and a medicinal
chemist by training, Dr. Lisa Alty developed the
course, and she played a vital role in planning and
deciding on the components for the new major.

Unlike the traditional chemistry lab course, Chem-

_ istry 343 uses animal and plant materials as a basis for
many experiments.

The second new course, entitled Physical Chem-
istry of Biological Systems, was developed by
Desjardins, and, according to him, “considers how
living systems are described in terms of the laws of
thermodynamics.”

The first biochemistry majors are scheduled to
graduate next spring.

Freshman Emily Binns is undecided about a ma-
jor, but believes that biochemistry would “probably”
be helpful for med school.

Jeffrey Bonham, also a freshman, is planning on

sgoing to medical school in the future. “That would be ,

pretty interesting,” he said about the biochemistry
major, “right now it’s between biology and chemistry
so biochemistry would probably be a good ﬁt.

Elizabeth Little, a sophomore who will major in
either chemistry or biology, is excited about the new
major, “I think it sounds like a great idea. One reason I
was looking at schools other than W&L was because
we didn't have a biochem major. so I was really excited
when I heard they were coming up with one,” she said.

Little plans on taking a biochemistry as soon as
she can next year as a junior.

and second-tier schools are even becoming competi-

tion for faculty because they have lowered their teach- .

ing loads to four or ﬁve classes a year.

Another concern about Washington and Lee’s
current calendar is the question of the rigor of
Spring term classes. The 12- 1 2-6 report focuses on
revamping Spring Term. It suggests a six course
teaching load for faculty and a 4-4-1 course load for
students. This report sees the question of rigor as,
“an important issue. across the
year and across the majors and
not simply as an issue limited
to "Spring Term,” it states. Fur-
thermore, the report advo-
cates that spring term return
to its, “original concept of pro-
viding student experiences
unique to the spring term.”

3-4 Report

week courses.

The 12-12-6 reports also suggests that the Of-
fice of Institutional Research and the Institutional
Effectiveness Committee design a study using stan-
dardized instruments to examine students’ academic
engagement both before and after any calendar

WIIIsr'I.EwHIIEYoUooNvocm=_ Thesounds of tliewashixigtonaridlreetlliarnbersirigetsresonate
across the Colonnade as students prepare for a new school year. President Burish and Professor

  

importance of

faculty

Comparing the Mock convention to other
Washington and Lee programs‘ such as the Wash-
ington Term and Shepherd Poverty Program,
Connelly praised the, “public service—learr1ing,”
aspect and shared his hope that the Convention
will be an, “antidote to corrosive cynicism about
politics in America today.”

Connelly of the politics department spoke. Burish commented on the high levels of student governance as well as the
control

over many aspects of University life.

Connelly believes this Convention could be
the best ever, with a high likelihood that some speak-
ers could be one of the nine active candidates.
Senator Clinton may also be a speaker this year.

As one of Washington and Lee’s great traditions,
Connelly said that it, “inspires a love of politics, toler-
ance and respect for the other party.”

 ‘at i f

CODY ABBATKDTHE RlNG—'I'UM PI-I1

COME ONE, COME ALL. Junior Drew Heath attempts to recruit freshmen to the Outing Club during the

Student Activities Fair last Wednesday

changes.

To help bring the undergraduate calendar into
better coordination with the Law School, the 12-
12-6 report suggests that the undergraduate divi-
sion begin a week earlier in the fall. The 12-12-6
report lists the following as beneﬁts of the current
calendar: a broad range of classes, seminars and
very specialized courses, small classes sizes, a small
student/teacher ratio, faculty-led study abroad pro-
grams, a wide range of interdisciplinary classes a
and a range of truly unique courses that can only

occur with the spring term, for example, Washing- .

ton Term, geology digs, ﬁeld archeology, and more.
As reasons to vote against the 14-14 sched-
ule, the 12-l2-6 reports lists the following: the
“breadth of options” diminishes, double-majors
become difﬁcult, which would result in enrollment
in humanistic majors decreasing as students
choose pre-professional majors, class sizes may
increase, study abroad programs would decline,
interdisciplinary programs would suffer as pro-’
fessors attempt to cover the basics of their major.
The 14-14 report states that the 14-14 cal-
endar would be the easiest to coordinate with a

Spring Term reports clarified for student body

5-course teaching load. Other strengths that the

14-14 report believe that the semester schedule
offers are as follows: better timing for summer
internships, study abroad programs and work op-
portunitiés, better opportunities for summer schol-
arly activity, 14 weeks allows for more time to cover
the material, the -fact that it will be harder to double-
major may lead to minors, two extra weeks would
make it easier to help students learn to write.

The 14-14 report also points out some weak-
nesses of the semester calendar. Spring Term
study off-campus programs with students would
be lost, there would be less room for electives
because Washington and Lee would only require
32, 34 or 36 courses to graduate, whereas now 40
are required. , ‘

The report on the 13- 1 3-4 compromise calen-
dar states the May term courses would have to
be “academically rigorous.” The faculty course

load could be either 3-2-1, 2-3-1 or 3-3-0. The 13- _

13-4 calendar asupports a third term because,
“The breadth of our curriculum has long been a
sellig point for the university. and adds to the
distinctiveness of W&L.”

 

 

w..a;.* i‘ir:4¢ear.{3A~ 5. we a-ovt.<iz’z‘~;*

  

 (£1.  

SEP 15   L S:
PAGE 2

Ni1»rl:RN-::-Triilhi

X.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2003

  New Construction on the Colonnade: Washington Hall

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS
BY
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

Washington Hall, the Administration building on-the col-
onnade, will be receiving a renovationbeginning this fall. The
building was erected in the early l800’s and has not been given
a major renovation since the 1930’s.

“A complete renovation will not happen for several years,”
stated Joseph Grasso, Vice President for Administration. He
went on to comment that Washington Hall will not be gutted
this year and that the project will be much less evasive than a
major renovation. '

The Administration has three goals for this project. The
first goal is to make the Dean of the College office more acces-
sible to all students since Washington Hall is not handicap
accessible. That office will be moving from the second ﬂoor
to the west side ofthe first ﬂoor. , ,

Across from Dean Stewart’s office on the east side of the
first floor will be a writing seminar room for students. “The
room will accommodate 15-20 students" and will be used for
writing seminars,” said Grasso.

The second goal of the renovationlis to consolidate the
President’s Directory Ports. This will help communication
among the President’s staff within the building.

For example, the President’s legal counsel will be moving
from their current location into Washington Hall.

The third goal is to make a more functional suite of offices
for the President.

“This goal is to better meet the needs of the President and
his staf ,” commented Grasso. The Administration is trying to
minimize the expense of this project because there may be a
complete renovation of Washington Hall and the Colonnade
down the road.

“The renovation of the Colonnade is an important objec-
tive,” replied Grasso. The renovation of the Colonnade would
improve the faculty offices and teaching spaces.

The Washington Hall renovation is expected to be com-
pleted in the early winter term. “At the moment the cost is still
being developed and refined,” said Grasso in response to how
much the project will cost. Therefore, an estimate could not
be given.

The renovation will be causing two groups to move out of
the building.

The Development Staff in Washington Hall will be moving

‘to the Development Building where half the Development Staff

. is currently housed.

The Development Building is the small building down
the hill from the library. It is also to be renovated soon to
make room for the Development Staff.

All twenty-seven people will be under one roof for
the first time in a long time. This is also expected to bring
better communication to the Development Staff.

The Business Office is also being moved to a differ-
ent building. It will be moving to a vacant section of the
University Center, next to Evans Dining Hall. '

“The renovation is a complete waste of money. We
have no money to save Spring Term, yet we can keep re-
modeling buildings,” stated one member of the class of
2006.who wishes to remain anonymous. The Administra-
tion feels that the renovation is much needed and will be
an asset to the school.

Next Week, Chris Lauderman will be writing about
Construction in the C-School.

CAMPUSMAP

' two were -Q @-
ia E‘

Washington and Lee University as seen from above...Changes and additions to campus are in the works. Read about it here every week as Chris Lauderman covets Construction.

Changes in the Curriculum: Language Requirement unlinked this year

CATHERINE SWAN
STAFF WRITER

Beginning this term, students looking to complete their foreign
language requirement will no longer be required to complete the
second semester of a beginning or intermediate course in order to
receive credit for the ﬁrst. ,

The Courses and Degrees Committee asked the foreign language
departments to review their policy on the linking of courses.'The
departments that had not already unlinked their courses began re-
view of their policies during the Winter 2003 term, and the discus-
sions resulted in the decision by all departments to unlink their inter-
mediate level courses.

French, Italian, Spanish, German, and Russian classes were all
affected by the decision. The Classics Department set the precedent

at least two semesters of study is encouraged for all language
learners, professors in these two departments felt that students
should be given the opportunity to try a new language without
having to commit to two semesters of study. ,

“We concluded logically that we had no right to impose
upon any elementary or intermediate language study which was
apt to be more challenging and unrewarding than the first one
had been, especially if the first semester grade had been a low C
or a D and the prospect for failure during the second semester
was hig ,” said Professor of Romance Languages A.G. Fralin.

Besides allowing students to try a new language they may
have not previously considered, the unlinking of the language
requirement also ensures that students will not be penalized for
failing to complete the second semester of language study if
they have already completed the first.

for unlinking courses several years ago, and the department of East
Asian Languages began unlinking their courses last year. Although

Under the previous system, students who only completed
one semester would lose all credit for that semester unless they

 

FROM STAFF REPORTS

lllinois Judge to speak on "live Lawyer as a Moral Agent in Society’

Judge Thomas M. Donnelly, an associate judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County
Illinois, will be speakinglon campus on Tuesday at 7:30 in the theater of the Commons. His

talk is entitled “The Lawyer as Moral Agent in Society.”

Donnelly is an adjunct professor at Loyola University’s law school and directs the
Phillip H. Corboy Trial Advocacy Fellowship. In addition, he teaches trial advocacy at the

University of Chicago Law School in the Mandel Legal Aid clinic.

Donnelly’s speech is sponsored by Washington and Lee ’s Catholic Campus Ministry.
He will also be giving a luncheon seminar at the law school on “Sex, Lies and Legal Ethics.”
The Christian Legal Society, Asian American Law Society and Phi Alpha Delta are also

sponsoring his visit.

Renowned Writers coming to campus

Marshall Boswell and Sarah Kennedy, two renowned writers, will be opening this
year’s Glasgow Endowment events by reading and discussing their work on Tuesday,
I September 23 at 4:30 in the theater of the Commons. The talk will be followed by a book-

signing and refreshments.

Boswell, a Washington and Lee alumnus, is the T.K. Young Professor of English at
Rhodes College. His work has appeared in Playboy and New Stories from the South. His
latest work to be published is a collection of short stories entitled Trouble with Girls .

Kennedy is a professor at Mary Baldwin College and has published three collections of
poetry. She is currently working on poems that she researched last year in Wales.

Flow Blue, published by Elixer Press last year, and Double Exposure, which won the
Cleveland State University’s open submission prize in 2002 are her two most—kriown works.

The Mary and Arthur Glasgow Endowment was established at W&L in 1960 to bring

noted writers to campus.
The talk is open to the general public.

completed the second.

“This is a rule that has been confusing to both students
and faculty outside the languages, and has on occasion caused
students to lose credit based upon misunderstanding,” said
Provost Williams.

Head of the Department of East Asian Languages Janet
Ikeda still encourages students to take both courses, and said
“we [still] highly recommend that students continue the lan- .
guage sequence and not stop their study after one term.”

Another change in foreign language policy initiated by the
German department last winter was the elimination of the policy
granting different credit hours for language study according to
previous language experience.

Under the previous policy, those students who had two or
more years of secondary school study but who had to take
language at a beginner level would only be awarded ﬁve credits
for the course instead of the traditional eight.

 

Where Good Food &

Good People Meet

“According to The Roanoke Times.”

In last week’s article entitled, “W&L administrator resigns because of sodomy charges”
the sentences that read “It’s unclear why Long was charged with assault” and “Long
lives in Lexington with his wife and three sons” should have been preceded by,

CONTACT US:
info@healthyfoodscoop.com

LET US TAKE OVER WHERE MOM TOOK OFF WITH OUR
HEALTHY SNACKS, AND EASY TO PREPARE MEALS THAT ARE
SO TASTY YOU WON'T EVEN REALIZE THEY'RE GOOD FOR

WE HAVE A LARGE SELECTION OF ORGANIC, NATURAL,
HEALTHY‘ SNACKS, ENERGY BARS, CHIPS, CRACKERS,
JUICES, WATERS AND BULK SNACKS. WE ALSO CARRY IN-
DIVIDUAL SERVING SIZES OF FROZEN ENTREE5, FROZEN
PIZZAS AND INSTANT SOUPS.

‘ OUR COUNTER CULTURE CAFE SERVES DELICIOUS,
REASONABLY PRICED VEGETARIAN MEALS.

MONDAY THRU THURSDAY

ASK US ABOUT STUDENT MEMBERSHIPS
HEALTHY Fooos MARKET
110 w. WASHINGTON STREET
Y LEXINGTON, vA 24450

540-463-6954 ~

YOU.

11am-2pm

VISIT US;
wvvw.healthyfoodscoop.com

.- AV -r-.«,sy.»... ...».-~.m<i ». , . .,,.,,...___,‘.. .,, ,,t,,.,, ,

P

UV-nu .,« »...g.,... A. 

s

 

C

4

)<



   

, K MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 15, 2003

 

 

  

S;lgill\l5liPﬁDITORlAL

Phi weighs in on new Commons

We, at the Phi, feel the need to give you our two
cents on what will surely become the perennial Com-
mons debate.

Here goes.

The Elrod Commons has been the talk of campus
for several days. If you’ve made it over to the $25
million masterpiece, give or take a million, you have no
doubt noticed some of the glitches in its design. One
of the most glaring is the poorly thought-out Empo-
rium and Cafe plan.

When the cash register at the Emporium (AKA
weak-attempt at a Stop-In, where are the dogs?) is not
open, students must wait for long periods of time be-
fore they are able to pay for anything they want to eat.
In fact, Phi Staffers were forced to nearly miss meals
on Sunday night because of long lines. We have no
beef with the dining services staff, who do their best
to keep the line moving, but rather with whoever made
the decision to keep only one register open for what
seems like the great majority of the time. The old coop
might have been smaller, yet somehow it managed a
much greater level of efficiency.

The prices seem to be even higher this year than
last, and where this is not true, the portions are smaller
(as in the case of the french fries). These extreme
charges encourage many to take the phrase “starving
college student” to heart. Ormaybe to stomach? Com-
bine this with the fact that tonight, if not every night,
the only items that are made to order are cheesebur-
gers, chicken fingers, and fries.

We are pleased to see The Commons being used,
though. There are far more students wandering around
the open spaces of the new building than ever dark-
ened the doors of the Early-Fielding University Center.
It is, as promised, a place where students can easily
congregate. We love the new TV room and game area
and are happy to see that there are students there all
through the day.

Our bottom line is still this, though: we could eat
quicker by walking from our old Washington Street of-
fice to the co-op, picking up our munchies, and walk-
ing back than our current method of waiting in line for-
ever. But still, it’s hard to complain, as the place defi-
nitely looks nice and gives our campus even more ofa
community feel, as well as adding a sort ofprofession-
alism that was somewhat lacking by having an apparel
store smaller than most classrooms.

On another Commons-related note, our new offices
look shiny and brand spanking new. We are glad to be
in a more centrally-located place, despite the fish-bowl
atmosphere. The fact that we are caged zoo animals
does not deter us from enjoying our new surroundings.
Hopefully, the officewill prove inspirational and we
can continuesto’pro'vide high-quality investigative fod-
der for your eyes‘. Enjoy the Commons as we have and
will. -

  

uote of the Week

“I thinhe American people - I hope the
American - I don ’t think, let me - I hope the
American people trust me”

-President George W. Bush



Editorial Director Katie Howell

PAGE 3

f stionable necsity 

more COURTESY ux/u.edu

DO WE REALLY NEED H‘? The newjohn W. Elrod University Commons claims to be a panacea for all of W&L’s problems, but may in fact just be a money pit.

The freshmen will really never know how good they have
it. A D-Hall that always serves chicken, burgers, fries, and

- pizzas? A co-op (sorry, café/emporium) where you can order

without filling out little pieces of paper? A bookstore with
elbow room? These are just a few of the benefits that are
offered by the new John W. Elrod University Commons. Other
new features in the Commons include alcohol service, out-
door café seating, an open-air auditorium, a game room, a the-
atre, and student organization offices.

There can be no doubt that the Commons gives the W&L
‘student even more of a life of luxury and abun-
dant debauchery, but at the cost of $25 million.
Is the quality of life improvement that we get from
this new building really worth the price tag?

Let’s take, for starters, the new dining area.
The only significant improvements that I can see is the afore-
mentioned inclusion oftypical American dietary staples and
a classier, more wide-open look to the place and its adjoining
dining area, including a stage. Disadvantages include an ex-
tremely small space for lines to form, the use ofplastic (plas-
tic!) utensils on occasion, and the removal of Cap’n Crunch
from the cereal lineup, a tragedy that many a student will
doubtless mourn. And thoughthe selection of foodsmay
have improved, I can assure you that the tolerable and occa-
sionally good quality of the food has not (September l3th’s
dinner main course- Shrimp n’ Grits).

The café/emporium (neé the co-op) is effectivelyjust the
same, except divided into two sections, and with alcohol, and
with much higher prices or smaller portions.

The new student offices are nice, with a good view of the
campus, but frankly, I liked the old ones better. Judging by
student publications offices, the Phi, the Trident, and the Ca-
lyx ALL had more spacious offices on the corner of Washing-
ton & Jefferson, the basement of the University Center, and
the Washington & Jefferson annex, respectively. The inclu-
sion of various resource rooms and study/meeting rooms are
nice, but the question arises as to whether they were really
necessary.

Let’s also not forget the inclusion of the new non-stu-
dent offices, including that of the Dean of Freshmen, Dean of
Students, as well as their respective support staffs, (who all

MODERATE’S MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON <06 The only thing for which I am truly and purely

also previously had adequate office space on—campus), the
elevator system (which makes a horrific buzzing noise that
makes me cover my ears when it goes past a floor, which gets
me funny looks from the others in the elevator), and the pho-
tography dark room, again, all of which used to have another,
adequate home on campus.

Then there’s also a theatre (which, the last time I checked,
there were plenty of in Lenfest), an auditorium (ditto), and
the infamous circular staircase made out of South American
bluestone which ate up a significant amount of the budget in
and of itself. Perhaps there’s not enough
money to hire eight new faculty, but there IS
money for a really freaking cool staircase.

 grateful is the new bookstore, which has
greatly expanded its selection, and was wise enough to dedi-
cate an entire floor to textbooks, which means an end to hun-
dreds of people trying to cram into a space smaller than a
freshman hall at the beginning of every term. That’s the thing
that us sophomores will REALLY be using as bragging rights
come our Senior Year. I can see it now. “Yeah, back in my day,
you had to wait in line for 5 hours to get History books that
were only 3 feet away,_unless you wanted to kill someone for
their texts. A lot ofpeople did that.”

But does that reallyjustify $25 million? Some things are
better and some things are worse. ‘The cafe/emporium usu-
ally only has one register open that it takes 20 minutes to get
to a peak hours, but on the other hand, the new bookstore
features more and better clothing, apparel, and paraphenalia

So again, it’s not that I don’t like the Commons, I do, I
just wonder ifthe money that we spent on it could have gone
to something else (cough, cough, Spring Term).

My final view on the whole thing is that the Commons is
nice, but when you get right down to it, it’s just a luxury,
something that makes us look glitzy, new, and decadent, and
it is most definitely not a necessity. I’m not sure whether or
not that’s worth $25 million, but I can’t really complain too
much, as I’m writing this article inside ofit, but nevertheless,
I think we ought to take stock before we end up with a spend-
ing policy rivaling that ofthe Federal government. Make your
ownjudgments, Generals.

Spring Term’s future bright

majors fear that students would

would only have to increase
mesters and larger classes.

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor

Kyle Wass
Erin Julius
Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan
CodyGabbard
Allison Perry
John Hyland

Paul Seifert
Henry Grimball
Thomas Worthy

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Distribution Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published ‘Mondays during the un-
dergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications
Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum Phi is other-
wise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and
letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to phi@wlu.edu or in
the University Center mailbox by 5 pm. Friday to appear in the
following week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters and colurrms do
not necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

* Even though last Spring’s rainy
weather dampened the spirits of
W&L students, and though the
Spring Term forums left many
students fearing for the survival
of our peculiar calendar, the sum-
mer updates of the calendar work-
ing groups give rise to plenty of
optimism. Spring Term may just
be here to stay.

While most Generals were
lazing away on

choose to pursue only the other
major (most often a C-School ma-
jor) under a 14-14 calendar. Fi-
nally, the authors recognize that
many study abroad programs
would be eliminated and an op-
tional “May Term” would do little
to cover this loss.

A chief beneﬁt, which is
mentioned, seemingly as an af-
terthought, is
that a two se-

b h “T
  
and interesting 10- BRETT KIRWAN ‘04 at wou a _

cales, three commit-
tees remained in MicroLex, hard
at work evaluating the relative
strengths and weaknesses of the
12-12-6,13-13-4 and 14-14 calen-
dar options. The results are very
encouraging to supporters of the
current calendar.

For example, even the pro-
ponents of the 14-14 calendar
admit that many of the problems
with the current calendar are
staffing issues that cannot be
solved by a switch to a new cal-
endar. Also, they admit that there
would be a decrease in the num-
ber of courses needed to gradu-
ate, leading to a “watered down
educational experience.”

Similarly, double majors

‘ would be nearly impossible and

departments with many double

******** ~~—~~'~—"4--”~*-- low greater in-

tegration with
the Law School (no longer requir-
ing Spring Term judicial proceed-
ing to be postponed until the
Fall) and VMI. Other benefits,
more prominently noted, such as
allowing greater coverage of ma-
terial in 14 weeks, a longer sum-
mer for scholarly research and
better coordination with semes-
ter-length study abroad and
summer internships, hardly seem
important enough to uproot
W&L from our unique and ben-
eficial calendar. In fact, the 12-
12-6 working group noted that
the two extra weeks of summer
research gained under the 14-14
calendar would no doubt be
eaten up by the additional recov-
ery time required by longer se-

The l 3- 1 3-4 calendar option,
a compromise between the 14- l 4
and 12-12-6 extremes, embodies
none of the benefits of either and
many of the defects of both. In-
terestingly, the authors of the re-
port conclude with a stern wam-
ing that “many of the supporters
of the 13-13-4 proposal would
also support or even prefer the
12-12-6 calendar” and go on to
enjoin those in favor of a short
term not to divide their support
between the two.

So, where does the analysis
of the two other calendar options
leave the current calendar and
Spring Term? In short, looking
pretty good. For example, the is-
sue of the coordination with the
Law School can be resolved by
beginning the undergraduate
school year one week earlier.
Also, the authors compiled exten-
sive statistical analysis to dem-
onstrate that the faculty course
load can be reduced to ﬁve with-
out “exceeding the same number
of faculty that a two semester
system would require.”

To be specific, the authors
showed that with the anticipated
decrease in student body size
and increase in study abroad,
paired with the hiring of only
eight new faculty, class sizes

0.75% to accommodate a shift
from the current six and a half to
a six course teaching load. More-
over, a drastic decrease all the
way to a five course teaching
load can be achieved without hir-
ing more faculty than is required
under the two semester plan and
with only a 2.75% to 3.5% in-
crease in class size.

Naturally, the 12-12-6 calen-
dar is also preferable in terms of
the breadth of courses it offers,
the opportunities for high qual-
ity study abroad it makes avail-
able, the range of interdiscipli-
nary courses it offers and the
commitment it makes possible to
both a top-ﬂight liberal arts edu-
cation and a second—to—none
Commerce School.

Although now is not the
time for students and other sup-
porters of Spring Term to breathe
a sigh of relief and a assume that
Spring Term will be saved, nei-
ther is it the time to despair for
the future of Washington and Lee
and assume that administration
has already eliminated our be-
loved Spring Term. Three cheers
for Professors Conner, King,
McAhern and Uffelman for
authoring the 12-12-6 report and
a charge to the faculty and ad-
ministration to read it honestly
and to work to save Spring Term.

 

 

PAGE 4



California Recall Candidates’ Poll

fete the election held today, would you vote to recall Governor Gray Davis?

cs: 46%
o: 48%
ndecided: % «

ere the election held today, which replacement candidate would you vote for?

mz Bustamente- 25%

mold Schwarzenegger- 22%
om McClintock— 9%

‘ill Simon- 8% _

eter Ueberrotfv 5%

rianna Hufﬁitgtom 4%
eter‘~Camejo- 3%

any Flynt- 1%

tatistics courtesy of the Sacramento Bee

 

Spring Term Worth Keepin

   
  

DEFINITE BENEFITS. The Washington Term Would be one of many casualties of a 14-14 term system.

Next week, one of this year’s biggest debates
will begin to take center stage. On September 22,
the faculty will vote on whether they prefer to keep
our existing 12-12-6 calendar or to replace it with a
13- 1 3-4 calendar, or a more traditional 14-14 calen-
dar. The results of that vote will be factored in with
the decision of administrators and trustees as to
what calendar we should follow. The full Spring
Term is a unique institution that facilitates the
college’s liberal arts mission.» If one of the other
calendar options were adopted, the college would
lose some of the unique and diverse learning expe-
riences that Spring Terrn brings. I have had some of
my most stimulating classes during the Spring Term
and have had some challenging teachers that have
made the Spring Term experience a valuable jewel
available only at Washington and Lee. At most
schools, students on a pre—medical track have to
consistently take pre—medical courses. But, Wash-
ington and Lee’s unique calen-
dar has allowed me to take a mul-
titude of rigorous courses out-
side my area of concentration
during the spring without losing
time on my science courses.

One of the perceived negative aspects of
Spring Term is that students do not take advantage
of the opportunities that Spring Term has to offer,
including, but not limited to, Washington Term,
Politics in London, experiences in Biology and Ge-
ology, and various intense courses that examine a
breadth of subjects in depth. Some say that stu-
dents go to Goshen all of the time and do no work,
and this is why Spring Term is widely popular
amongst the student body. Largely, I do not think
this is the case. It is true that a few students will go
to Goshen frequently during Spring Term, but those
people will go to Goshen when the weather gets
nice— regardless of the calendar. The only way to
stop people from going to Goshen is to petition the
Virginia State Police to close Route 39. Addition-
ally, if we apply the principle of this argument to fall

  

COMMON SENSE
JONATHAN WORTHAEO4’

and winter terms, then we should get rid of them
too. Fall term brings a multitude of fratemity par-
ties and Winter term brings many fraternity and
sorority new member activities. We should not get
rid of fall and winter terms because some students
might misprioritize so we should not take away the
present calendar either.

Spring Term study away from campus is
popular among students and would be another
casualty of a calendar change. The response
that some students whom I have talked to who
support the 14-14 option say that W&L students
could simply use other schools’ programs. Do-
ing this would be to the detriment of W&L stu-
dents. Although there are plenty of good pro-
grams, none are as sure—ﬁre as one with a W&L
professor in charge. Last year, I was in the Wash-
ington Term program. Many of the other interns in
the Senate ofﬁce where I worked had come to the
ofﬁce through other programs,
and it was clear that they were
not getting the classroom experi-
ence that I was. And, because I
had a W&L professor ensuring
my experience was educational, I believe that, in
many cases, I was given more substantive and
meaningful responsibilities. There is also no way
that I could have gotten my valuable health policy
experience under a traditional calendar, as I would
have had to stay on campus and take one of my
laboratory sciences. Perhaps I could have done
Washington Term as a senior, but this experi-
ence profoundly affected my concept of what a
physician-citizen should be. The concept of
“physician-citizen” is one reason I chose a lib-
eral arts institution.

The six week Spring Term serves a valuable
role to the liberal arts mission of this institu-
tion. It would be a shame for my children not to
be able to take advantage of these opportuni-
ties to learn in a way that is not available almost
anywhere else in the country.

MONDAY, SEPIFMBER 15, 2003

owards of the Week

An irregular feature of the .l.'{z'rzg-fir/7.: P/;z'Op.i_r1ions section

Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) and

GOVERNATOR: Arnold Schwarzenegger (left) and Lt. Gov. Cruz
Bustamante are both  from the tough questions and pandering

From Caley Anderson, the Opinion Editor

You may be able to sympathize with my dis-
appointment at the circus that has become my
native state ’s recall election when you realize that
the two men above are the two front-runners.
The current recall election features a myriad of
over 125 characters who sound like the cast of
some sort of warped Justice League: Watermelon-
smashing comedian Gallagher, Hustler publisher
Larry Flynt, three college students, child actor
Gary Coleman, David Laughing Horse Robinson,
a tribal chief, Lorraine (Abner Zurd) Fontanes, a
ﬁlmmaker, Bruce Margolin, a marijuana legaliza-
tion attorney, Michael Jackson, a satellite project
manager who hopes that his name might fool more
ignorant voters into going with him, “Angelyne,”
a stripper, Paul Nave, who lists his profession as
“Businessman/Prizeﬁghter/Father,” adult ﬁlm ac-
tress Mary Cook, who goes by the screen name
“Mary Carey,” and Tachikaze, a medium weight
sumo wrestler.

Leading this pack of miscreants are Republi-
can Arnold Schwarzenegger, actor and ex-body-
builder, and Democrat Cruz Bustamente, the cur-
rent Lieutenant Govemor.. Each of them inspires
my conﬁdence to only a slightly greater degree
than the rest of the ﬁeld.

Arnold the would-be Govemator has made a
habit out of avoiding even the most trivial discus-
sion of the issues (except for one occasion when
cornered by a radio talk-show host). He seems to be
trying to win the race on his celebrity alone, and as
if to prove the point, he has declined to appear in a
series of debates among the candidates, events that
will also feature current Governor Gray Davis, who
will attempt to defend himself against allegations of
gross incompetence in the Govemor’s oﬂice.

Every time a reporter asks Ah-nold about his
stance on this issue or that, or about his lewd com-
mentary in an issue of risque “Oui” magazine, he
simply says in his unique accent “I dohn’t walma
tahk abowteet.”

Thanks, Mr. Schwarzenegger, for adding such
professionalism to our already sparkling Califomian
political scene. Hey, at least if he wins, we can beat
out Minnesota for the right to put those “Our gov-
ernor can beat up your govemor” bumper stickers
on our cars. And that’s something that really makes
me, as a California voter, want to stand up and run,
not walk to the polls.

Lt. Gv. Cruz Bustamante, D-Calf.

     
  

prroros COURTESY geoti/ientorn/rm/izr0273 AND imagerrorg

to special interests in their bids to replace Gray Davis as governor of _

California in the October 7 recall election.

Not that the Democratic alternative, Lieuten-
ant Governor Cruz Bustamente, is better. His cam-

paign has been one repeated pandering to the His- ,

panic community after another. His latest attempt
to garner support involved a pledge that, should
he become governor, he will allow illegal Mexican
immigrants to acquire driver’s licenses from the state.
That sickens many in his own Democratic party,
including me. As though we weren’t losing enough
jobs and paying enough taxes to subsidize illegal
immigrants’ welfare and social security as it is, now
we have longer lines at the DMV as well!

You may object “But illegal immigrants can’t
vote!” Fair enough, but the large Hispanic commu-
nity can, and after this announcement, Hispanic
support for Bustamente shot up. Not to mention
the fact that it’s as easy for an illegal, non-citizen
immigrant to vote as it is to acquire a fake ID. And
if there’s something that screams “clean politics,”
it’s aiding and abetting election fraud.

On top of this, let’s not forget the fact that
California taxpayers are handing over around $55
million just for the privileges of listening to these
loonies tell us why they’re more qualiﬁed than the‘
other. I’ m no huge fan of Gray Davis, but I really
wish we had stuck to voting out politicians we don’t
like during regularly-scheduled elections. The
whole thing reeks of partisanship and extremism of
the worst kind.

So come October 7th, who am I going to vote
for? Frankly, I had half a mind to run for Governor
myself. After all, all it takes is a few bucks and a
couple thousand signatures. But since I decided
that the people of California don’t currently require
my services, I’ll probably vote for one or the other
of the Bustamente/Schwazenegger combo. They’re
both moderates, albeit purely political moderates. I
won’t like it, but then again, people with problems
as to “least of two evils” elections probably worked
out their frustrations on that issue in the 2000 presi-
dential election.

So again, thank you, Mr. Schwarzenegger,
and Lt. Governor Bustamente, for being the
l,0O0,000th and 1,000,001 st politicians, respectively,
to fail to break the public ’s negative image of poli-
ticians as liars, cheats, and sweet-talking tricksters
who’ll do anything for a vote, and you have failed
miserably at restoring MY conﬁdence in the Gu-
bernatorial ofﬁce in California. I fear that whether

A

the recall fails OR succeeds, we’ll be left with the I I i

wrong person as Governor.

Write

for the Phi!

The Ring-Tum Phi seeks opinion writers. If
you're interested in ediloralizing, write us at
phi@wlu.edu or contact the Opinions editor

at Andersonc@wlu.edu

Earn $1 ,00O-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our free programs make fundraising
easy with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get
with the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888)
923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com

SELL

ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTECTION
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
GUARANTEED BEST BUY
1 FREE TRIP FOR EVERY 10 PAID
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
MAKE YOUR SPRING BREAK EXXTREME
EXXTREME VACATIONS,

1-800-336-2260

SPRING BREAK TRIPS

INC .

J"-v-

 

\
an

 

‘ f

3‘ Women’s socc

Ii

 

MONDAY. SEPFEMBER 15. 2003

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team
is making a strong start to what many think will be
a great season. The team defeated Bridgewater
with a 4-1 victory on Saturday and Chowan with a
3-0 win on Sunday.

The Generals are now 2-0 overall and 1-0 in the
ODAC. '

The Generals are now ranked thirteenth na-
tionally. The team was also picked by the
ODAC’s preseason poll to win the conference.
Coach Neil Cunningham was selected as the
South Region Coach of the year for last sea-
son.

The Generals know they are going to
have to work hard regardless of their high
ranking.

' “Since we are reigning ODAC champions and
ranked thirteenth in the nation, everyone wants to
beat us,” junior Ginny Helms said. “We have to go
into every game and play hard, not underestimate

any team.”
Despite some periods of rain, the team made a
good showing in its new stadium.

 

Header. Freshmanjarnie Dorsey heads the ball in Satu.rday’s game.

PAGE 5


er shoots down Eagles

The team brought back nine starters and seven
All-ODAC picks. Eleven freshmen are on the team
this year and are already making a great start.‘

Freshman Anne Wiltshire scored the first goal
for the Generals
with an assist
from freshman
Maggie Megear
about 7:00 min-
utes into the
game.

A few min-
utes later,
W i l t s h i r e
crossed the ball
to senior captain
F o n t a i n e
Marcoux for an-
other goal, tak-
ing the Generals
to 2-0 at the half.

M a r c o u x
had ten goals and
six assists last
season, all while
ﬁghting an injury.
The senior also
holds the career assist record at 27 and is ranked
third all-time in career points with 87.

 

 Football falls to Johns

‘_W&L Men’s and Women’s Cross Country take Invitational p

K

BY ALLISON PERRY
sI>oRTs EDITOR’

The Washington and Lee football team lost its
season opener to Johns Hopkins in Baltimore on

, Saturday, 36-7. This game was the 14”‘ meeting for

the two teams. The series now stands at 7-6-1.

The Generals rushed for 53 yards and had 121
passing yards in this non-conference game. The
Blue Jays rushed for 280 yards and passed for 228.

With about ﬁve minutes leﬁ in the ﬁrst quarter,
Johns Hopkins’ T.J. Lyons rushed for one yard "to
get the touchdown after kicker Chris Smolyn failed
in a ﬁeld goal attempt.

Smolyn then succeeded with a 30 yd ﬁeld
goal kick in the second quarter to put the score
at 9-0.

Blue Jay senior quarterback George Merrell
completed a’ 12-yardjtouelifdown passto wide re-
ceiver Anthony Triplin. "Smolyn kicked for the ex-
tra point, raising the score to 16-0 for the half.

Coming back from the half, Johns Hopkins
received from the kickoff and eventually
scored on that drive. Merrell passed to Chris
Moriarty for a 42-yard touchdown. But Smolyn
did not make the extra point, leaving the score
at 22-0.

The Blue Jays fumbled the ball with 8:50
left in the third quarter, which lead to a Wash-
ington and Lee 17-yard drive. Sophomore run-
ning back Michael Lackett carried the ball four
yards to get the touchdown. Freshman kicker
Ben Long made the extra point, putting the score
at 29-7.

This week’sorts schedu

 

BY ALLISON PERRY
sI>oRTs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s and men’s

cross country teams each placed ﬁrst in the W&L _

Invitational Meet on Saturday.

The women’s team came in first with 37
points, and the men’s team ﬁnished with 39
points. Points are awarded to a runner based
on which place he or she ﬁnishes. Points are
then totaled for the team, and the lowest score
wins.

Finishing behind the Generals in the women’s
race were Catholic with 53 points, Southern Virginia
with 79, Bridgewater with 125, Shenandoah with 147,
Mary Baldwin with 152, and Hollins with 154.

Trailing Washington and Lee in the men’s race
were Bridgewater with 49 points, Catholic with 75,
Southern Virginia with 95, Lynchburg with 98, and
the Washington and Lee alumni squad with 151.
Both the men’s team and the women’s team
were picked second in the ODAC preseason
poll.

. The women rim a 5,000 meter course, while
the men run 8,000 meters.

Both courses are west of campus and
start above Wilson Field. The men’s course
runs to Maury River and back twice. The
women’s course runs a loop around the
playing fields, a long loop in the woods,
and then back to the playing fields for a
final circuit.

Soccer. Freshman Anne Wiltshire ﬁghts a Bridgewater defender for the ball.

 

 

Cour GABBARD/ Tb: Rinﬂum Pbi

About two minutes after the start of the sec-
ond half, sophomore Heather Rogers crossed to
Wiltshire, who scored her second goal of the ‘game.

The Generals brought the ball right back to the
Eagles’ goal. Marcoux took a shot that bounced
off the leﬂ goal post and appeared to go in, but the
referees did not count it.

With about 30 minutes left in the game,
Bridgewater’s Kim Matthews scored the only goal
for the Eagles.

Megear came back ﬁve minutes later and
scored the ﬁnal goal for Washington and Lee with
the help of Marcoux.

Wiltshire made ﬁve shots on goal, scored
twice, and had one assist. Megear had one goal
and one assist. Marcoux made seven shots on
goal, scored once, and assisted once. Rogers had
the fourth assist.

Bridgewater only took four shots total and only
two comer kicks. The Generals spent more time
near Bridgewater’s goal, taking 25 shots and eleven
comer kicks.

Lisa Belella stayed busy in the Bridgewater
goal, making eleven saves. Washington and Lee
goal keeper Emily Barker had one save. Barker, a
junior, holds the school record for goals against
average at 0.65. '

The women travel to Emory and Henry on
Tuesday for a 4:00 game.

k °

Johns Hopkins would intercept the ball twice
in the fourth quarter, both leading to scoring drives.
Lyons ran for 14 yards for the ﬁrst touchdown.
Merrill made a ten-yard pass to Steve Eno for the
ﬁnal touchdown. Smolyn made the extra point each
time.

Senior Washington and Lee quarterback Peter
Dean passed for 121 yards and rushed for 16. He
completed 10 of 27 passing attempts, had only one
interception, and was sacked three times. Lackett
led the Generals in rushing with 60 yards.

Merrell carried the Blue Jays by passing a ca-
reer-high 228 yards and rushing for 78 yards. He
had no interceptions and no sacks. Adam Cook led
the team in rushing with 96 yards.

The Generals travel to Sewanee next Saturday
for another non-ODAC game starting at 1:30 p.m.

  

Generals
Volleyball Wins
W&L lnvi ational

BY NICK MANNINO
STAFF WRITER

p.

The Washington and Lee Volleyball team
began its season in impressive fashion, domi-
nating the thirteenth armual W&L Invitational
and ﬁnishing in first place among six participat-
ing schools.

The tournament kicked off Friday aftemoon
with Washington and Lee facing Averett Uni-
versity. In what was a very lopsided event,
Washington and Lee defeated Averett in three
straight games (3 0-26, 30-15, 30-20) the Gener-
als’ ﬁrst match of the year.

Junior outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng (Mt.
Airy, Md./South Carroll) led the way with 10
kills and 17 digs, while junior outside hitter
Michelle Chastain (Phoenix, Ariz./Xavier Prep)
finished with 12 kills.

Other standout performances were made by
Christine Gladysz (Palm Harbor, Fla./Berkeley
Prep), who amassed 43 assists, and junior Jen-
nifer Lux (Virginia Beach, Va./Cox), who totaled
17 digs.

When asked how the team , managed to
fair so well and so early in the season with
new incoming freshman, Junior Captain Emily
Wolﬁng said, “We have three great freshmen
this year, and they have all meshed nicely into
the team. Considering we have eleven return-
ing players from last year, team unity was not
a concern. We all get along well both on and
off the court.”

In its second match of the Invitational,
the team had an equally impressive perfor-
mance beating Shenandoah University in three
straight games (30-21, 30-18, 30-21).

Impressive performances were turned in by
Emily Wolfmg (12 kills and 7 digs), sophomore
middle blocker Susan Gaillard (Charleston, S.C./
Porter-Gaud — 9 kills), sophomore outside hitter
Ashleigh Overly (Lancaster, Pa./Conestoga Val-
ley — 9 kills), and Christine Gladysz (33 assists
and 10 digs).

Washington and Lee continued action on
the second day of the Invitational against Sa-
vannah College of Art & Design. In what turned
out to be the team ’s most competitive matchvof
the tournament, Washington and Lee won in
four games (26-30, 30-28, 30-28, 30-25) to reach
the ﬁnals.

Standing between the team and champion-
ship was an Emory team that Washington and
Lee had not beaten in the past.

Junior Captain Emily Wolﬁng mentioned
how the upperclassmen rallied their team before
this important match.

“Before the games, we tell everyone to have
fun and play hard. A key to volleyball is com-

munication; if a team can communicate well,

many other parts of the game fall into place. We
remind everyone to communicate and take one
point at a time.”

The Captains’ advice certainly stuck
as Washington and Lee defeated Emory in
three straight games (30-21, 30-27, 42-40)
to win the Washington and Lee Invitational
championship.

Junior outside hitter Michelle Chastain
(Phoenix, Ariz./Xavier Prep) led the way with 1 5
kills and 24 digs. Junior outside hitter Emily Wolf-
ing (Mt. Airy, Md./South Carroll) recorded 10
kills and 16 digs in the victory, while sophomore
setter Christine Gladysz (Palm Harbor, Fla./Ber-
keley Prep) had 43 assists and 16 digs.

Michelle Chastain and Christine Gladysz
made the all-tournament squad, with Gladysz
earning the Invitational MVP award.

The Volleyball team ﬁnished the weekend
undefeated with high hopes for the rest of the
season. Their next match is Tuesday, Septem-
ber sixteenth at 6:30 p.m. when the Generals open
up their Old Dominion Athletic Conference
schedule on the road at Sweet Briar. 1

Until then the girls will be celebrating their
very successful weekend.

Added Junior Emily Wolﬁng, “We’ve
worked really hard these past two weeks, and
really wanted to win our tournament. I’m really
proud of all 14 of our girls.”

The course record for the men was set at 25 :20.9 Freshman Tippins Stone led the women’s team with
by Kenny Layman, from Eastern Mennonite, in a fourth place overall ﬁnish of 23:03.
1976. The ﬁrst place ﬁnisher on Saturday, Catholic’s Sophomore Betsy Frayer ﬁnished sixth with a
Mike Audette, ﬁnished over four minutes off the time of 23:30.
record with a 29:49 time. Senior Andy Schorr led Roanoke and Lynchburg could be competi-
the Generals with a second place overall ﬁnish at tion for the women’s team. The Generals will
29:59. ' meet the two teams this weekend on Roanoke’s
Junior Steve Chambers placed third with a time course.
of 30:05. SophomoreAndrew Johnson came inﬁﬂh “No course is tougher than ours, but its
at 30:28. [Roanoke ’s course] challenging” junior Erin Johnson
The women’s course record was set in 1992 by said. “It’s mostly a path through a ﬁeld with rolling
Josephine Schaeffer at 18:14. She competed on hills.”
Saturday on the alumni team, ﬁnishing seventh Both the men’s team and the women’s team
overall withatime of 23:39. compete next Saturday, September 20 at the
Catholic’s Rachel Yates finished about 3 Roanoke Invitational. The race starts at 11:15
minutes off the record with a time of 21:07. a.m.

 

  

 Pm Sif6“ii‘Ts

       
   
       
       
   
     
   

     
    

    
  
  

  
   

    
  

 

   

. t
M ’ S O S 'th V’ t
i BY JOHN HYLAND and many players played all 100 minutes of the contest. X
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR V After the game, junior goalkeeper Chris Carlson commented, “It was a
good victory considering [NC Wesleyan] had already played a number of
j . : T The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team began their season games and we had some first game jitters.” V
on a positive note with a 2-1 victory over North Carolina Wesleyan in It was NC Wesleyan’s seventh game of the season. The loss dropped ,(
a non-conference game on Saturday in Rocky Mount, North Caro— their record to 2-5.
lina. Carlson played the ﬁrst half making two saves without allowing a goal.
The Generals opened the scoring in the 33rd minute on a goal off a He was relieved in the second half by sophomore Michael Stanton who also
penalty kick by senior midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr. NC Wesleyan came made two saves but allowed the tying score. _
back in the mid second half to tie the score at 1-1 on a goal by Carlos Washington and Lee was picked ﬁfth in the ODAC preseason poll. "
Gomez in the 71st minute. The score would remain tied to the end of The team lost seven seniors at the end of the 2002 season.
regulation. Roanoke came in at number one in the poll. The Generals do not meet
Eight minutes into the first overtime period Stoehr found junior up with the Maroons until October 11th.
forward and co—captain Brian Pirkle on a pass across the top of the box. The Generals next match is on Tuesday when they travel to F emim for I‘
Pirkle made a quick move and ﬁred a shot across the goalie into the right another non-conference game. _ . 1
side of the net to give the Genemls the victory. They will begin their ODAC season with a home opener against East- 
It was a dramatic win considering the Generals were out-shot 14-9 em Mermonite on September 24th. G
Li
3. r
N.
A
1]: 0
. _ - Av
. .~ I I
Boo-Yah. A Washiﬂgton and Lee Player crosses to her teammate V V I i A I i I S i H H‘O i 5. ‘~
  Field Hockey close 
Jeiaﬂmaﬁifs an » . V. V Tnirvﬂprzrbt
FROM STAFF REPORTS scored the team’s final goal with = A W! “Max ax ‘
18:53 left in the game. Washington ‘ ggpggg
Washington and Lee’s ﬁeld hockey and Lee’s Jane Beall scored once mama
' j C ' team lost 3-4 to Johns Hopkins Saturday more for the Generals with 5:40 left A 511%.!
inBaltimore. in the game. Kitt Murphy assisted. HERIM M
The Blue Jays scored twice in the Sophomores Courtney Harrison . . "
first half With goals by Sophomore and Elise Gelinas were the goal keep-  .. 
_Meighan Roose. Washington. and Lee - ers making s10»saves and 5 saves,~re- -  ;!..]fi;w,.!u«£a;.h, an fmei
‘ ' ’ ' ' came back in the second half witha goal ..;.spectively. .— A  , . _ . _. . .» . I — 2 U“! "5 °l|*¢31'ﬂPW MP5
by Kelly Talfe. The Generals also played Villa Call for gum; ﬂismaufs , ‘
Johns Hopkins scoredjustafew min— Julie on Sunday. The team lost 3- * . __ U‘ A  ’
utes later when senior Jenny Farrelly 2. » 7”’ (_ _ - W’ '‘I‘(.?':
found the goal. Taffe scored the second Washington and Lee plays «~ .1] _l .‘ '
goal for the Generals at 24:59. Roanoke at home on Wednesday U ' °   stung‘;
s , . . niversity ortwear  
Johns Hopkins Caite Kappel then at 6.30 p.m. p Mﬂéwuﬂpl umufmmpehmu ‘
01y m P ia n your downtown location for
to speak at ,
Mary Baldwm W&L apparel and gifts This weeks
Former U.S. Olympic gymnast golf etiquette tip;
Dominique Dawes will speak at Mary - ' L
BaldwmSmythLeadmhipLeCm New Exclusive Football Polo Shirt H
on September 23rd at 5:00 p.m. The for the  Season
program Wlll be held on Page Terrace
and is open to the public. There is no ‘ ,
charge for admittance. . DO I10t  during a 4* ‘
Dawes wonabronze medalinthe 1 5  Washlngton Street  , b k -
ﬂoor exercise inthe 1996 olympics in L - t  - - P ayel" S ac SW1ng-
V Atlanta. She was also part of the U.S. exlng On: lrglnla
‘ _. . women’steamthatwongold. I  V 
EL FUEGO. Junior Erin Rathbone is on fire D_aWeS as the ﬁrst Afn?an- , , -
as she looks to pass. {’*“%°1?°a“‘° take “W a medal 1“ an www.universitysportwear.com

individual event. . 

>

L ‘k S D
1 6 par ts. .
C W '
0111 6 1‘1 1'6 s
G P . ’ i
101' th 6 111. s
. _ . _ O O  v ‘
E11131] Alllson y  is I 3  X
Make the nine dyer: spring smiesuarwith an F0: mm iuioramtion and wsmiom
.1 axeiiting immnshép. cmuenging manage  * xwm.vm.edw’waimlW?>e$W? ,
intmting guest siasaicsrs am an its drama of ' “""9"“3 €W"53l53"’“m’» Sclml 9*‘  1 *
« . . .  .. , aﬁlﬁibtm Aims, RE). Ecix amzs. ‘hrgina J
Vicgmia mania. C Wl llraiveisiw mzlznmi VA
Emesiem Virginiak camera! city iiuréngme mgﬂm, W ‘ “ '
 iaxemsiriegn eta  smjzriswlzele cmitiiusnig mmmmm. “Emma Tl Jim .; J}
  W 11.6 U W m"“°W*3'*‘“*° WWWWW ieaeiaaismxsiismasisrsor
wad: awirgiaiia  m ’Lhwsrsi:y - and 
team a sum iaeeneain stipem. iiapﬁcaaisnii daarliina  E31":-L is. 21333.
‘_ Mug-utnsuauﬁxuheaan am: mum: ‘ _ 

 

MONDAY, SEFFEMBER 15, 2003

 

 & LIFE

CAPTION! KELLER WILLIAMSWILL 131-: PERFORMING IN LEXINGTON ON SEPT. 26TH

Keller Williams
to perform at Lime Kiln

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

On Friday, September 26th, singer, songwriter
and guitarist Keller Williams will be~coming to
Lexington. Williams, a solo—artist who is a rising
star on the jam-band music scene is performing at
the Lime Kiln Theatre as part of a nationwide tour
to promote his eighth album entitled Home. Called
“the mad scientist of music”,he is known for his
quirky and unique lyrics. His most recent album,
which contains songs such as “Love Handles” and
“Apparition”, is Keller’s ﬁrst solo studio record-

mg.

has always been interested in guitars. He ﬁrst began

A native of Fredricksburg, Virginia, Williams

to play during his early teens, virtually teaching
himself by learning a few chords and putting them
together to play songs by the Beatles,the Eagles
and the Rolling Stones that he heard on the radio.
After graduating from college, Williams traveled
Virginia, playing solo gigs during the day and
performing with his band The All Natural Band
at bars and fraternity parties by night. He eventu-
ally moved to Colorado where his friendship with
the members of String Cheese Incidentsopened up
opportunites for him as a solo artist in the jam-
band community.

For tickets to the Keller Williams concert , call
540-463-7088. Tickets are $18 for lawn seats and

$20 for achairs. .Doors to the Theatre will open at

6:30 p.m and the concert will begin at 7:30.

Jeepers Creepers: Oh my
God, they’re eating my eyes out!

BY IAN DICKINSON
STAFF WRITER

“You wanna know Scotty what I found out
today? When people get really scared it’s just
like when they get drunk. The real person comes
to the surface.” This gem of scripting literature
is quite possibly the best line, and only worth-
while lesson gleaned from the “creature feature”
ﬁlm “J eepers Creepers 2.” When I entered The
State to watch this “Creature Feature" ﬂick, I
noticed that the theater was completely empty.
Always a good sign for a ﬁlm. However, I grit-
ted my teeth and prepared for the pointless on-
slaught that was about to assault my intelligence.
In the following paragraphs, I illustrate the finer
points of this ﬁlm. F

The “horror” begins with an opening shot
of a cornﬁeld with a young boy erecting scare-
crows onto poles. His stereotypical redneck fa-
ther threatens him with a beating if he neglects
to securely fasten the scarecrows to their
perches. Then, low and behold, one of the scare-
crows comes alive, grabbing and dragging the
boy violently through the cornﬁeld. In what
seems to be a time ﬁller to extend the ﬁlm to
the required 80 minutes, the audience sees the
redneck father running through the cornﬁeld
with his gun calling out his son’s name, then it
cuts to a shot of the monster dragging the boy,
then back to the father again. Repeat about
twenty times and you have the ﬁrst chase scene,
which ends with the monster ﬂying away from
the suddenly catatonic father.

Enter a school bus, ﬁlled with lively young
basketball stars on the way home from their vic-
tory game. Here, the audience is introduced to
such one-dimensional characters as “Bucky,”
and “Scotty Double D.” Why, with names like
these, this ﬁlm is assured to be of the best qual-
ity! Suddenly, a tire blows out. This highly un-
expected turn of events leads to another tire
blowing out and the bus being stranded on a
desolate stretch of highway, curiously out of
range of both the radio and cell phones. The tires
are found out to be punctured by some sort of
hand crafted bone throwing star, yet other than
some puzzled looks and a “what the hell is it,”
comment by the bus driver, this fact is never
questioned. Finally for no apparent reason, a
cheerleader, aptly named “Minxie,” is treated to
some gruesome visions and learns that the mon-

 ster; named “the Creeper,” comes out every 28

years, for 28 days to feed. This is day 28 and,
like a hungry hungry hippd, he has to eat as many
humans as possible before he goes back into
hibernation. The Creeper’s link to the number
28 is never explained nor questioned. Apparently
it is just there. There are many parts of the ﬁlm
like this. Another “fact” is that “the Creeper”
cannot die. It is just an accepted fact of the ﬁlm.

The next forty minutes of the ﬁlm, like the
food at the old D-Hall, are absolutely the worst.
People die. In the most uninteresting way pos-
sible. That’s it. The word “way” is not plural
because they are all killed off in the same fash-

 

HOTO COURTESY OF ROI'l'ENTOMATOES.COM

Watch Out. Three teenagers peer out a window in horror
in a scene from the new movie jeepers Creepers 2
ion. Without revealing too much detail, though
there is not much to reveal, “the Creeper” kills
his victims by snatching them up in the air. The
end. You never see any conclusion to the mur-
der. Not that the ﬁlm needs any more violence,
but the unﬁnished subplot of the characters
death gives the feeling of “total apathy” from
the director.

The feature’ ends much like it begins; with
a pointless appearance from a redneck. Though
the ending shall not be revealed here in this re-
view, the last word to be said about this ﬁlm is
that it gets more and more ridiculous as time
progresses. After sixty minutes of cumulative
absurdity, theﬁlm ‘reaches a laughable level,
ruining the intense climax. The true absurdity
though, is that the famous director Francis Ford
Coppola was the executive producer for this
ﬁlm. It was produced by Zoetrope pictures, a
small ﬁlm studio owned by the Coppola. It was
doubtful, however, that he ever visited the set,
because after viewing the movie, it is obvious
the director could have used some tips about
how to make a “good” movie. However, it can-
not be discounted, that in a unique display of
talent, the director Victor Salva managed to
make a plot-less horror ﬁlm without showing a
single mammary gland. Now that is quite a feat!
There is blood, screams and explosions, yet not
a single sex scene. While one might applaud this
support of Christian values, it just means that
the movie has no redeeming value whatsoever.

Speaking about the director, one might
recognize the name Victor Salva as appear-
ing on the Hollywood scene. He has a few
ﬁlms to his credit such as “Powder, and “Rites
of Passage” and had a starring role in the true
life story “Prison.” That is, he served ﬁfteen
months of a three year sentence after sexu-
ally molesting a 12 year old boy in 1988
(United Press International August 30, 2000).
Yes, this director/Sex offender created a
movie so god-awful, that viewing is tanta-
mount to being whipped repeatedly. In the
stocks. In the hot sun. All day. My recom-
mendation is to avoid this movie like the
puddle your roommate left on your ﬂoor last
night. For the love of all that is good and holy,
do not see this movie. As a rating, I use my
bad movie scale, which is four smacks in the
face out of ﬁve. '

then get

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

  Got Dirty Clothes?

University
Cleaners  « .

Great Service
First-Rate Quality.

Traveller releases route and begins safe ride services

463-7328

BUFFALO CREEK 
VANDALISM

If you attended the Buffalo Creek
  Festival last spring and had your
vehicle vandalized, please contact:

Investigator Miles D. Kelly
Rockbridge County Sheriff ’s Ofﬁce

I may have a lead in this case

—————:r

m

‘R’

ﬁlﬂllﬂi
J _.._.. _.«»“' __,_.-— 
7’ ‘ “ass” ..:a...
9. \
1‘ ﬁ
- X‘
5* N N‘ \‘\“‘--4.
i wanna ~N%”"“*-..____‘
-«I ~ * es.- lo -s»~.....
mutant
_ M. I '%
’2".§ ﬁx g x . '
dry cleaning, , ix... \\ \ 53.. U’? I
laundry, alterations  r. in ~ , I
--. 0 ' -

r--1 .., ‘~ :."~=:~: 1 ii

it I. on ‘ K, ' I

A, X
i  E5
-n....,, % ‘
 {MI W‘ ‘

rawﬁ

 

Traveller is a campus-wide safe ride service
available to both the undergraduate and law cam-
puses from 10pm till 2am seven days a week. The
program is responsible for giving thousands of
rides every year.

The program is a derivative of the previ-
ously-existing Live Drive and Safe Ride pro-
grams, and is the only major organized so-
ber driver system on campus.

It is operated primarily by members of
the Washington and Lee community includ-
ing volunteers from more than twenty cam-
pus organizations, particuarly fraternities.

Lot.

Students act as dispatchers and drivers. Many
coaches also drive for the program.

The program is funded by the student ac-
tivities fee. Each student pays twenty-five
dollars for the sytem.

The route of Traveller goes through
Woods Creek Apartments, the primary Law
School parking lot, Sorority Row, the BDG
quad, the International House, Davidson
Park near Kappa Sigma, the Outing Club
house, Windfall, the Pole Houses on Furrs
Mill Road, and the Lee Chapel Parking

 

 

 

l’AG_EL 8

WE‘. R.

Asﬁt/oRD I

FiviAII;i>IiI@wIiJIaDu
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2003

Lexington cuisine dishes up low-prices and variety

BY CAROLINE DUFFY
STAFF WRITER

Carolyn Duffy is a food—savvy Washington and
Lee senior. Her food-tasting experience is varied
and vast. She will be bringing the Washington and
Lee community periodic culinary delights from in
and around the Lexington area. Please feel free to
emailus at phi@wlu.edu with any ideas about what
Carolyn should sample. For now, our very own food
critic has decided to explore Lexington’s best deals.

Where to find the best deals in Lexington is some-
thing we can all use a little advice on, especially those
students who aren’t quite as familiar with the town.
You might be surprised at the great, even gourmet,
food you can find at prices we all can afford.

Salemo’s, arguably the most popular student
eatery in Lexington, is packed on Monday nights
when they offer all—you-can»-eat spaghetti and gar-
lic bread for only $3.00 and then again every
Wednesday when you can order a large cheese pizza
for $4.95. In the ten years since Salemo’s began
offering these specials, the price of the pizza hasn’t
changed and the spaghetti only costs $.50 more
than it did the day the restaurant opened. Now
that’s a deal. ,

Smokin’ Jim’s Firehouse Grill knows exactly
what the students want. Not only can you find
friendly service and a $3.00 barbeque sandwich
(pork, beef, or chicken), you can take advantage of
the late night buffet serving up barbeque and break-
fast items for only $6.95 every Wednesday, Friday,
and Saturday night until 3 am. Jim himself will as-
sure you it’s the best food, the best deal, and the
best barbeque on the East coast.

It’s hard to believe you can have lunch for only
$5.00 at what City Magazine-this year named the
“Best Restaurant Outside the Roanoke Valley.” At
Willson—Walker House, manager Steve Hintze has
been offering his “famous $5 lunch special” Tues-
day through Saturday for twelve years in order to
prove that his restaurant isn’t as expensive as people
tend to think. The special includes soup or salad,
homemade rolls and muffins, and a beverage, as
well as the day’s entree. With all that for only $5,
lunch chef Ron Howland admits that he has to get
pretty creative with the budget. Nonetheless, he
serves up American regional cuisine using only the
freshest local produce and meats to create lunch
specials such as his penne pasta with salmon dill
cream sauce or southwest chicken with couscous.
Don’t be intimidated by its reputation—the Willson-
Walker House would love for more students to take
advantage of this deal.

l

STOPPING FORA QUICK BITE. Three sophomores grab some food in the cafe before class. The tasty morsels
they are eating may not match the unbeatable deals our food critic dug up on the streets of Lexington.
Carolyn encourages students to get off campus and sample the variety of treats Lexington has to offer.
They are far more vast than the measely menu the cafe has to offer, especially late at night. From Mexican

Some of the newest restaurants in town of-
fer students excellent deals on delicious and sat-
isfying meals. At the Black Dog Cafe, owner
Jackie Lupo boasts that students can get a great
meal for under $5.00. And a cheese and salsa
quesadilla will cost you only $2.25. I recom-
mend the $3.00 breakfast burrito, ﬁlled with
scrambled eggs, potato, and cheddar and
Monterey jack cheeses. .

The Joyful Spirit, which also opened last

our readers.

year, offers their popular veggie wrap for only
$3.99 as well as a PB&J wrap for just $2.49,
and before you hit the nearest drive-through
be sure to check out their egg and cheese ba-
gel with turkey——only $2.49.

Don Tequila Mexican Restaurant claims that
students appreciate their reasonable prices. You
can’t go wrong with the chicken tacos——three
for only $3.00—and if you order the $1.50
sopapillas for dessert then you’ve just eaten for

to traditional southern cuisine, nothing on Carolyn’s menu exceeds $7.00. Lexington truly has it all,
for less. Our food critic believes Washington and Lee students should avoid the regular fast food
restaurants in town and ny something new. Her periodic colurrm will present all kinds of options to

under $5.00. On Wednesday nights celebrate
with 12 oz. margaritas for just $1.75 each. Combo
dinners are $6.25, or if you haven’t already dis-
coveted, there’s usually a coupon for $1.00 off
any combo dinner on the back of your Kroger
receipt.

Take advantage of some of the great deals
that these and other Lexington restaurants of-
fer. Support local business owners, forget fast-
food!

DRIVERS BEWARE Thejeep on the left is breaking the rules and the one on the right is not. Another change to the campus is that the upper deck ‘
of the parking garage no longer serves as a “temporary entrance.” Drivers are now forced to follow The Ring-tum Phil editorial advice of last year.

Students fail to appreciate natural beauty .

BY Himas KING
TRAVEL EDITOR
fdrive and hike time.

Unfortunately, many students
at Washington and Lee do’ not real-
ize how surrounded the campus is
by the beauty of nature. If you are
one of these students, then I would
like to challenge you to visit an amaz-
ing place within a 30 minute drive of
Lexington. The St. Mary’s Falls is a
great place to hike, swim, and hang
out with friends. It is best visited on
a scorching hot summer day. Hope-
ﬁilly we will still have a few of those
days that will allow you to get out
to experience this area.

I have only made the tiip once,
and I am still waiting for the next
perfect day. Aﬂer a short drive, a
moderately dimcult hike crosses the
river on three different occasions
and leads the hiker to the culminat-
ing falls. These final falls are not
the only spot to swim in the river,
so keep your eye out for that deep
pool that has not yet attracted any-

one. According to the W&L Out-
ing Club Guidebook, the hike to the
falls is approximately 1 and ‘/2 hours
long. If you decide to pick up the
pace and are not carrying much
gear, the trip can easily be made in
under an hour.
At the falls, there are two great
spots to jump off rocks into the deep
pool. The lower of the two spots is
about 20 feet high and the higher, 30
to 35 feet. Both are exciting if you
are extremely careful. The depth of
the pool was plenty deep, but a rock
shelf on the leﬁ side does ' require
one to be accurate with his or her
jump. If you decide to jump from
the higher ledge, you have to be able
to jump farther out. The wet rock
and loose footing make it diﬂicult to
get anything of a running jump. ‘
Ihave also beerito Panther Falls
within the last few weeks, and I truly
thoughtthat St. Maiy’s was well worth
the hike and the better of the two.
Before going, check the Out-
ing Club Guidebook for directions
to the trailhead and estimations of
drive and hike time.

"T THERIN UM

A Staff Editorial from 2002 implored students to enter the deck from the bottom and exit from the top. The new rule will be enforced by

University Security in the form of tickets and ﬁnes."Don’t be caught breaking this rule, it’s not worth the potential damage to your BMW

  

FILE PHoIo/ THE RING-TUMPHI

OH, THE GOOD OLD D'AYs!. Two students, dressed inb aprons and W&L visors, serve a meal at’D-Hall in the days before the building of thejohn W Elrdo commons.

 

