  

..;

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Buffalo Creek Music Festival, a fifteen year Washington
and Lee event, may have heard its last band.

The fourteen fraternities on campus sponsor the event
held at Zollman’s each spring. Traditionally, each fraternity
contributes $1,000 to the festival.

According to Matthew Jacobs, IFC Advisor, every frater-
nity has a stipulation in their risk management policy that pro-
hibits joint parties of this magnitude with alcohol present.
“There are no standards that allow fourteen fraternities to host
one party with alcohol. I cannot let them ﬂy in the face of their
risk management policies,” said Jacobs. He went on to de-
scribe Buffalo Creek as a huge risk management nightmare and
the “mother of all open parties.” The festival is a very large,
public event open to the entire student body. M

If anyone were to get injured at Buffalo Creek, all fourteen
fraternities would be responsible and that would bring on a
myriad of litigation.

Buddy Atkins, Acting Director of the Commons and former
IFC Advisor, stated that Buffalo Creek started as an event not
sponsored by the fraternities. Some students sold tickets to
the event which featured inexpensive bands. Eventually, Buf-
falo Creek grew and better bands that were brought in. To
bring in these bands, Buffalo Creek needed the monetary sup-
port of the fraternities. Eventually students stopped buying
tickets and the fraternities took over full responsibility.

Jacobs said it was up to the student organizers to change
the event so it is not a risk to the fraternities if it was going to
stay in existence. “Buffalo Creek could be tomorrow if alcohol
was not involved,” said Jacobs. Some alternatives he men-
tioned were individuals funding the event or charging for ad-
mission.

Inge Hill, co—producer of the Buffalo Creek Music Festival
said that this is thegfirst year the University has chosen to
enforce the mass party rule. He said he is concerned that the
event will not happen if sufficient funds cannot be raised. Hill
said he was not informed that Buffalo Creek would not happen
until he asked the fraternities to write the check. Hill had not
yet signed formal contracts with bands, but had been in touch
with them about their availability for Buffalo Creek.

 PI—II

  lire student voice of Washington rmdlee University since I 897
Enforcement of national rules may end Buffalo Creek Festival

/571:7; 
VOLUME CVII, No.V1iI
MONDAYJANUARY 12,2004

FEE PHOTO

Couches burning. Buffalo Creek has been a time for students to relax and listen to music outdorrs during Spring Term. Couch-burning has
also been a traditional activity in the past. Such huge parties are a liability for fratnernities and the IF C may end the festival due to this liability.

“Every student understands what a unique and great event to
this school Buffalo Creek is and it is tragic the students may be
losing yet another tradition,” said Hill. Hill mentioned that dona-
tions of $20 from students who care about the festival would be great
for trying to save Buffalo Creek.

“Losing Buffalo Creek seems to be of no concern to the admin-

istration. If no insurance policy is available to cover possible dam-
ages, the school will lose a unique tradition that allows fraternity
members that would not otherwise socialize to do so,” said Jamie
Whiteman, President of Kappa Sigma.

For ideas on fundraisers or to make a donation to the Buffalo
Creek 2004 fund, contact Inge Hill at hillrn@wlu.edu.

Fraternities:

Beta Theta Pi: 9 
Chi Psi: 11 (-3)
Kappa Alpriaz 18 (+ 8)
Kappa Sigma: 16 (+ 1)
Lambda Chi Alpha: 15 (+ 1)
Phi Delta Theta: 19 (+ 1)
Phi Gamma Delta: 16 (-9)
Phi Kappa Psi: 4 (O)

Prii Kappa Sigma: 18 (+ 8)
Pi Kappa Alpha: 11(+ 1)

Sigma Chi: 21 (+ 11)
Sigma Nu: 10 (+ 6)

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: 15 

' 2004 Greek Rush Results  

and change from last year:

Kappa Kappa Gamma: 37 1)

The first number represents the
number Of pledges for the frater-
nity, the second reflects the change

Sororities:
Chi Omega: 37 (+ 1)
Kappa Alpha Theta: 37 1)
Kappa Delta: 37 (O)

PiBeta Phi: 31 (+4)

from last year.

White tried for drinking and driving

missed charges of failing to stop or yield while
entering a highway and refusing to take a

BY JEI3 BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

BY KATHERINE HENDERSON
STAFF REPORTER

IFC Vice president resigns

where they were not invited back, forcing the
IFC to send out emails retracting some rush in
vitations. 7

Kevin White, former Executive Committee Vice-
President, was tried before the Rockbridge County-
Lexington City General District Court on December
16, 2004.

He appeared as a consequence of several
charges filed against him after his drinking and driv-
ing accident of Saturday, October 4, 2003. White
will also appear before Washington and Lee’s Stu-
dent Judicial "Board later this week.

White was found guilty of driving while in-
toxicated. He will be permitted to drive only to and
from school or work until December 15, 2004. This
is a one-year suspension with a restriction.

White will also be required to attend VASAP

S (Virginia Alcohol Safety Awareness Program), a 20-

hour program aimed at educating offenders about
the dangers of substance abuse and driving under
the inﬂuence of alcohol and drugs. The court dis-

breathalyzer test.

White’s case will appear before the Student
Judicial Council (SJC) on Wednesday.

According to the Washington and Lee
website, the Board of Trustees believes that in
DWI cases, “the appropriate sanction first to be
considered by the SJ C is suspension from the Uni-
versity.”

The policy goes on to state that circum-
stances such as the nature of the offence, court
imposed rehabilitation and participation in alco-
hol education programs, among others, should
play into the SJC’s conclusion.

White will have the opportunity to appeal the
decision of the SJC to the University Board of
Appeals.

Because he is a law student, the Dean of the
Law School will replace the slot usually filled by
the Dean of Students on the UBA.

Interfratemity Council Vice President Rich-
ard Lewis resigned from his position just before
rush, the most important time of the year for the
Council. 1

Before leaving for Winter break on Decem-
ber 18"‘, Lewis handed in his resignation to the
IFC, in which he stated that he “no longer [has]
the time or the capacity to serve” as IFC Vice
President.

Consequently, the past week was an espe-
cially difficult time as the IFC strived to make
sure the rush process ran smoothly.

While changing rush dates as the week
progresses is not uncommon, IFC'President
Brian Castleberry said that Lewis’s resignation
contributed to the increased number of prob-
lems with rush this year. Some freshmen, for
instance. were placed on fraternity rush lists

Castleberry also noted that the fact that the
Board had to complete the work Lewis did for
rush led to “awkward situations.”

Lewis served on the IFC for two years. He
said, “I put in a lot of hours and hopefully did
some good as a service to the school,” but
would not make additional comments as to the
reasons for his resignation.

Lewis said that he was not forced to resign
from his position. All work of the former Vice
President was turned over to the IFC president
and the IFC advisor.

According to Castleberry, there will be an
election held to replace Lewis at a time to be
determined

Whoever is elected will serve the remain-
der of Lewis’s remaining term, which will run
until approximately Spring Term.

 

,§A§‘,tl{i'£2 B. l.!i¥§siﬁf3}~$ l_.';atz§-§.»~'-:~T'r

   

\vA9r»§st~:éaez':.:¢ a  :1 re-érW8tlY

 

 

    

    

 

,_ ,, .;-: ‘.'7"«, 
PACa?r3 3 5 «’-Wt’ MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2004 >
   ‘° Students leave messes ersonal belon in s
I p g g ‘
I
In Co-op and create more work for employees
' )
§Former Washington and Lee Presrdent
to speak about honor Fnday In Lee Chapel '
Robert E. R. Huntley, a former president of Washington
i"and Lee University who went on to serve as counsel in the
}Richmond office of Hunton & Williams, will be the keynote 1
;speaker at Washington and Lee’s Founders’ Day events on
}‘Friday, Jan. 16, at 11:30 a.m. in Lee Chapel. Huntley’s speech
is entitled “Oasis of Honor” and will be free and open to the
§_public. }
 This speech will launch this year’s Institute.for Honor
gsymposium concerning “Reform of Corporate Governance:
?.;Lessons of the Honor System.” Approximately 100 students,
faculty and alumni are expected to participate in the two—day
(series of discussions. p
 Founder’s Day is held inphonor of George Washington,
;the first benefactor and President Robert E. Lee, who launched
ithe business and journalism professional programs.
 29 undergraduates and law students will be inducted into ‘
;{Omicron Delta Kappa, a national leadership honor society that '
::was founded at Washington and Lee in 1914.
 Seniors to be inducted are Brian Shelton Castleberry,
_:f.Kevin Joseph Coppersmith II, Jeremy Scott Franklin, Kara Jean
’fHarbert, Erin Renee Johnson, Austin Injae Kim, Stephen Chad ’
;'-Meredith, Margaret Brooks Morgan, Karelle Ann—Yakini A
:‘j5Samuda, William Ansel Sanders, Elizabeth Maury Stegall, THERING-TUMPHI
igaliliel Douglas V03’ James Matthew Watson’ Sarah Jane Messy, messy. Students have been leavirigtrash fromthe foodaridpersonal belongings strewn about the Co-op.
; a ots. A . ,
i_ Juniors to be inducted are Richard Matthew Busby Jr.,- BY ERIN JULIUS “People leave trash and customer’s discourtesy keeps “they’re not cleaning up their 3
;:Lindsay Day Hagerman, Robyn Jennifer Konkel, Elizabeth Kyle NEWS EDITOR newspapers and old papers from J them at work long after the Co- trash on the tables and they’re
f‘~Meehan, Samuel Noble Roberts Stafford, Julia Ferrara Waity. class,” said Annie Iadarola, “the op has closed. “Students work not cleaning up their cigarettes
 Law students to be inducted are Bridget Alison Blinn, Trash, cigarette butts and biggest problem is that people here and we have as much work outside...then we have to go
i§Heyward Harles Bouknight, Brooke Michelle Corby, Marc An— people’s personal belongings think someone should be clean— as they do, we want to get out of sweep up everywhere,” he said. ‘
drew Granger, Kristen Frances Grunewald, Brian Lee Hager, strewn everywhere have created ing up after them and people are here at the end of the night, not “Be more considerate. We
-Angela Rae Hepler, Laurie P. Kelleher, Maxwell Christopher anunpleasant environmentinthe, also careless with personal be— stay and clean up their mess,” are not their momma and we
Smith. Café Emporium,orCo—op. 1ongings,” she said. said Awkward. don’t clean up after them,” said
, t, , p , Students are also causing Due to Washington and “It makes us stay here, we Tornlinson.
Traveller extends ma, peﬂod for dISpalChed dnVerS confusion when placing orders. Lee’s Honor System, students have to go out there and clean According to Iadarola, no I
“Don’t place an order and then feel free to leave their belongings up everyone else’s trash. We workers are assigned to clean up
Traveller has extended the periodinwhich it will dispatch dirvers. walk to the other end of the build- out in the open. “People just don’t get out of here til 12:30, 1 the eating area, so customers
' By calling Traveller at 458-8900, a student can request a driver to be ing,” said Co-op worker Henry leave their books lying all over am.,” said worker Loryn that leave amess create more work
"dispatched to his or her location. Howard. Leaving the Co-op after the place. It’s really inconsider— Tomlinson. for all the servers. “When you’re
’ This policy extends to seven nights a week. placinganorder causes lines, con— ate when you leave for three The Co-op workers request done and leaving the table, throw '
The Traveller vans will be running on their routes on Wednes— fusion and wasted food. It wastes hours and leave your books sit— that students do a better job of away cups and plates and pick
’ day, Friday and Saturday nights. the servers’ time when they have‘ ting there,” said Calvin Awkward. cleaning up after themselves. up after yourself. ..it’s not
f This is an extension of Traveller’s trial period that was instituted to wait for customers to re—enter Acommon complaint from those “Ash trays are there for a anyone’s job to throw away
at the end of “Winter Term. the Co-op to claim their food. who work in the Co-op -is that purpose,” said Awkward, trash,” she said. it
Pr 'd tB ' h tl ed
  Y   .
chair elect of American Cancer Society
BY KATHERINE SHELL member of a committee dedicated to behavioral effects of i
STAFF WRHTER cancer and psychological studies of cancer patients. He has
; President Thomas G. Burish was named chair-elect also been a member of a committee dedicated to evaluating
of the American Cancer Society following a recent meet— the board structure of the ACS. Burish has been a member of
ing in Atlanta. The post of chair-elect is a precursor to the Board since 1991. ‘
the post of chairman of the American President Burish’s activities are not ex-
Cancer Society, a position which he pected to interfere with his duties as President
‘ will assume next fall and hold for one of Washington and Lee; he has been a board
year. member for over ten years. ...
~ V V I7 ‘ IV A President Burish and other board Instead, his role as chairman of the Ameri-
7 .  ,   V . ‘V  members will be responsible for the can Cancer Society will send a positive mes-
_ . -  5 if  organization’s budget, direction, and sage to members of the W&L community, stress-
. A   (ﬁe Dikﬁt Q , Eb: ’ oyerall vision but will not be respon— ing the. importance of ‘serving and volunteering
WWW __     9 ‘.m_,Y,,§«\m sible for the American Cancer for national.organi.zat_ions dedicated to 1mprov— I
mwsatm? . A   ._ Society’s day to day organization ing the quality of life in America.
8:00 p. .Wednesday, January 14th and 0peram,ns_
Commons Theater Burish has been a volunteer for the ACS for over For more information on the American Cancer Society
twenty years, and has participated in various commit- and ways to be involved, please visit the ACS’s website:
Sponsored by W&L Hillcl tees of the American Cancer Society, including being a www.cancer.org. ‘
D
, 8
&
Don’ t  
Seats five, has 53 arrest:
1

feet of cargo space, and 112126
*‘t“tt‘*t‘”t‘t‘“   your ~  
and 3 ﬁ-speed iaaizxiat
shin. Evan evolution pledges...

     
  

I
can’! 'fiE§§§' axeiaia it. too
“I
 "£63-"s°t;§I$‘.s #019,’?  3.33%. .lt€¥.‘.. Eﬂligi {$114. 11
E30 Fiﬁ F%;ts’;33~E  . ‘E ‘ .  Eté-€.‘~§.t}i»3‘t7;$ 
' .7  are ’ litéfztli EE5 Eﬁittiiiﬁﬁ F59;
t.:2£E%i$E. t'3~¥':'s§3l*-3$.r§tié§ seems it’ amaze ’
 #333; iﬁiztlﬁli F? ‘E 1%?! east ‘
V

 

 

   

CtlEYAM)E{‘{l\l
OnNroNsEDrroA
mm m

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

'1 ‘ IRi.\J<I-'3l,lvii’Hl ‘
iAH: 1 )lTORlAL
Make Rush Week safer

Fraternities are not always the safest
places. Recent events have shown Greeks
to, at times, be unaware of the conse-
quences of their actions. The administra-
tion has allowed students at Washington
and Lee a great deal of autonomy in self-
governance. Despite ourrecent shortfalls,
there appears to be no risk to that free-
dom Organizations like the Interﬁatemity
Council have shown themselves to be able
to handle complex issues very well, we
hope they will continue to do so.

Most fraternities attract excellent

, pledge classes year after year without re-
sortingtothe juvenile tactics usedby some
Greek organizations. The few fraternities
that do, whether out of desperation or
sheer stupidity, cast a pall on all their fel-
low Greeks. They must take their respon-
sibility to the University, the fraternity sys-
tem, and most importantly to the fresh-
men whom they are rushing, a bit more
seriously.

Theﬁrstpriority of the University corri-

‘ munity mustbe safety. Take, for example,
the safe-haven policy. Ifa student goes to
the infirmary or the hospital, he
is totally protected from any judicial ac-
tion. Thoughthis rule is, attimes, ﬁust1at-
ing, it makes sense. There should be no
fear involved with seeking professional
medical attentionin atirne of need

Because of this safety net, it is im-
portant for us to realize that we have to
stand up and take care of each other. If
we see a fellow Washington and Lee stu-
dentinneed, itis ourduty as amemberof
this community to see to it that he or she
is taken care of .

Washington and Lee students: in the
future, we ask you to look out for each
other. We beg you to consider the very
serious consequences for all your actions.

   

te of the Week

“...during the 60’s, only about half of
Berkeley’s student body were official
members of the on-campus Student

Communist Organization.”

~Anonymous letter to the editor to the
Daily Californian, UC Be1l<eley’s
campus newspaper.

it

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Hilary Henry
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Anne Iadarola
Katie Howell

 

Production Assistants

Copy Editor
Editorial Director

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Distribution Dir.

Paul Seifert
Henry Grimball
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington,’ Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, l/rrginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wlu.edu

 

PAGE 3

GOP’s new medicare bill is bad medicine

PHOTO OOURTBY OF

A MISTAKE? President Bush signed the 2003 Medicare Bill into law very late last year; critics of the new law believe that it will make prescription drugs far less affordable.

I had an enlightening realization this
past Thanksgiving day. While sitting
around the kitchen table with my family, the
topic of Congress’ new Medicare bill came
up. I expected my grandparents to be sup-
portive of the measure, considering this
Medicare bill is for the senior citizens, right?

Well, sort of. Without getting into too
much technical mumbo jumbo
about the stipulations of the
bill, the fact of the matter is that
this revision to our Medicare
system hurts more people than
it helps. [ K _

Consequently, people of all ages are
complaining about it. My grandparents dis-
like the new Medicare provisions because
they are part of a group of senior citizens
who will have higher premiums and
deductibles as a result of the new bill. My
parents dislike the new bill because they will
be shouldering the cost of this 400 billion
dollar disaster through higher taxes. I dis-
like the bill because I will be a working class
taxpayer when the baby boomers, all 78 mil-
lion of them, turn 65 and qualify for Medi-
care.

So where exactly is the support for this
bill coming from? Well, the most important
and inﬂuential supporter is the AARP. Rep-
resenting over 35 million senior citizens na-
tionwide, this group has a strong influence
over politics in Washington.

When the AARP launched a 7 million
dollar advertising blitz supporting the bill,
certain politicians collapsed and capitulated
under the pressure to vote for it.

While the AARP’s intention to help se-
nior citizens seems righteous, they stand to

 
 

WWSLICE ON LIFE

profit very much from the new Medicare bill.
7 Over 60 percent of AARP revenues
come from insurance premiums, indicating
that they will benefit financially from the
passage of this bill. Therein we see the reason
for the AARP’s strong support.

The majority of Republican congress-
men support this bill because it brings a
temporary end to Demo-
cratic criticism that Repub-
licans insufficiently ad-
dress domestic social is-
sues.

Also, a stipulation in this bill invites pri-

‘vate firms to sell insurance coverage to 40

million Medicare beneficiaries, something
that Republicans have been trying to ac-

‘ complish for a long time.

While Democrats condemn Republicans
for trying to privatize Medicare, this fea-
ture of the bill is overshadowed by the pre-
scription drugs stipulation, which has been
receiving the majority of attention lately in
the media. President Bush,who has been very
outspoken in his support of this bill before signing
it into law last month, does so because it in-
creases his chances of winning the 2004
Presidential election. How’s that?

When President Bush is on the campaign
trail next year, Democrats will,because ofthis
new law, have a difficult time attacking him
for neglecting domestic social issues. As
soon as the President hears criticism on the
matter, his advisors will be quick to point
out that he staunchly supported the Medi-
care bill of 2003, which is important even ifthe
bill hurts more than it helps.

A very few Democrats support this bill
because they say that any Medicare pack-

age partially covering prescription drugs is
better than no package at all. I strongly dis-
agree with their logic.

An official financial forecast by Congress’
budget experts predicts a steady increase
in insurance premiums and deductibles, as
well as a widening of the coverage gap. This
new bill requires senior citizens to pay a 35
dollar monthly premium as well as a 250 dol-
lar annual deductible. Their money will be
going toward Medicare, which will cover 75
percent of prescription drug costs up to
2,250 dollars, and 95 percent of costs over
5,100 dollars. .

However, for senior citizens paying be-
tween 2,250 and 5,100 dollars a year on pre-
scription drugs, there is no coverage at all.
Congress’ budget experts estimate that by
2013, the monthly premium will be 58 dollars
and the deductible will be 445 dollars. On
top of that, the coverage gap is estimated
to be between 4,000 and 9,066 dollars, mean-
ing senior citizens would have to pay all
costs for prescription drugs in between
those two amounts.

The drawbacks of the new Medicare bill
heavily outweigh the benefits. People of all
ages, especially non-senior citizens, will
suffer financially from having to fund the
new Medicare system.

Instead of hastily passing a half—decent
bill, Congress should have taken their time
in constructing a Medicare system that
doesn’t have such a predictable downside.
The passing of the new Medicare bill is very
unfortunate, because we will all be shoul-
dering thelfinancial burden of this system
in the future, and it is unclear whether or not
we’ll be able to do that.

Bush’s immigration proposal enlightened

I have had many reserva-
tions against Bush’s presidential
abilities and policies, but I can-
not help but smile at his recent
immigration proposal. Bush’s
plan would give undocumented
immigrants amnesty and allow
them to legally live and work in
America for a period of time, af-
ter which they would be encour-
aged to return home to their
countries.

However, they must compete
with other incoming immigrants
for jobs that are already scarce.

As a refugee from Vietnam, I
was once an immigrant in this
country (but I was documented
and legally here). I can under-
stand the simple dream that
many of these immigrants have
of making a better life for them-
selves and their families. Before
coming to America, my father
and I were illegal immigrants in
Cambodia, and it was a chal-
lenge to live in a place where any
knowledge of our presence
would mean imprisonment if not
death.

When we were accepted into

the United States, it was per-
haps one of the happiest days
of our lives.
Many of you who are reading
this article have not experienced
life anywhere outside of the
United States and do not know
how fortunate
you are to have
been born here. 
Many of the ‘
people who im-
migrate to this country left their
homelands because there was
no possibility of creating any
kind of decent life there and
came in search of a better way.

Every human being who is
born into this world should
have the opportunity to live a
good life free fromthe evils of sup-
pression and hardship, but un-
fortunately for many people,
that possibility does not exist.

However, that opportunity
does exist in America, regard-
less of what problems America
has. If you have a dream and
the desire, you can find a bet-
ter life here.

That is why Bush’s plan is

 

so important and necessary.
America has so much to offer,
and as the wealthiest nation, it
would be a moral sin for us to
deny other people the chance to
succeed at making a better life
for themselves.

Opponents of
the proposal say
that it rewards il-
legal behavior,
and indeed it
does.

However, the previous immi-
gration policy of firmness was
morally wrong, and the_“illegal”
behavior that resulted from it is
but a courageous act of disobe-
dience against an unjust regula-
tion.

Other opponents argue that
inundating America with immi-
grants would increase the com-

‘ petition for jobs for Americans,

thereby making it harder for
Americans to find a job.
However, the jobs that most
of the immigrants take are often
labor and low-wage jobs that
most Americans do not want.
Many of the arguments made

against imposing more relaxed
immigration policies stem from
fear of the final result, but we
need to put these fears aside
and take a chance. After all, if
the wealthiest nation can’t take

‘a chance, then who can?

Regardless of the chal-
lenges the immigration policy
may pose, Americans need to
remember that we have social
responsibilities as the wealthi-
est nation in the world,'and that
means sharing our wealth and
vast opportunities to those less
fortunate. To not do so would
make us selfish and foolish as
a nation. We built this nation
on the labor and energy of im-
migrants, and without immi-
grants, this nation would be
nonexistent. Closing our bor-
ders to immigrants would de-
prive us of a group of people
that have much to offer so-
cially, culturally, and economi-
cally. Just like at a party where
the more people you have, the
merrier the party is, the more
people you have in America, the
merrier we’ll be as a nation.

 

    

PAGE 4

I 

INIONS

MONDAY, IANUARY 12,2004

Many U.S. citizens today can’t distinguish between jingoism; patriotism

It’s a common sight these
days, but one that disturbed
me nonetheless- a car with a
bumper sticker saying “sup-
port the troops.” It disturbed
me not because I’m against
supporting the troops; far
from it. It’s dis-
turbing because
I honestly
doubt that the
occupant of the
car did anything ,
to support the troops besides
a friendly bumper sticker.
Many‘ Americans would tell
you that they “support the
troops,” but the number of
them that have actually done
something meaningful for our
fighting men and women
would undoubtedly be much
lower.

It is aproblem symptom-
atic of a larger illness present
in the United States. It’s

MODERATE’SMUSlNGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

9

called “jingoism,’ a word I
define as empty nation—state
fervor; supporting your
country merely because it’s
your country, and for no other
real reason. In the United
States, at least, there is a
marked dif-
ference be-
tween it and
“ p a t r i o -
tism,” one
that has be-
come more noticeable since
September 11th. You remem-
ber it, don’t you? After that
terrible day, you could hardly
find ahouse-without a ﬂag
ﬂying, and you couldn’t go a
block without seeing the
phrase “Never forget.” There
is, of course, nothing wrong
with this. What’s wrong is
that American citizens have,
for the most part, forgotten
why they ﬂy a ﬂag and why

they love their country. The
problem is that being an Ameri-
can patriot requires more than
mere ﬂag-waving and cries of
generic support.

Americans have forgotten
that America is more than a
mere country; it is an idea.
They have forgotten that be-

. ing an American patriot re-

quires an inquisitive and criti-
cal mind, active participation,
expression of meaningful, self-
formed opinion, a fierce inde-
pendent streak, and a whole-
hearted love of liberty. Many
Americans express a general
idea that they are in favor of
“liberty,” but rarely do you hear
one of our countrymen who re-
ally understands and embraces
the philosophical basis of lib-
erty that our Founding Fathers
so cherished and upheld.
American patriotism today
has devolved from support of

the American Democratic
Ideal to support of the United
States of America, the coun-
try that was founded on that
ideal. Our patriotism has be-
come hollow, our ﬂag-waving
is nothing but empty symbol-
ism. Our patriotism is no dif-
ferent from that of any other
country; all we’re celebrating
is the fact that this country is
our country. This is some-
thing to be proud of, to be
sure, but not unless you un-
derstand what makes America

so different from other coun- j

tries.

Let us all be reminded
that America is deserving of
our celebration and support,
not simply because we hap-
pen to be Americans, but be-
cause America is an idea, one
that has given us freedom, op-
portunity, and for most of us,
good fortune. It is not our

government, nor our political
parties, nor even our military,
that is alone responsible for
this fact. It is the higher con-
cepts that we should be
thankful for, the ideals embod-
ied in the Constitution and
the Declaration of Indepen-
dence, that have guided our
government, political parties,
and military through our cen-
turies of existence. Anyone
can be an American patriot,
even someone who’s not
American by birth, simply by
virtue of this concept. Let us
be reminded that we are
Americans before we are Re-
publicans or Democrats, be-
fore we are rich or poor, and
before we consider any other
distinction. Let us be re-
minded that being an Ameri-
can patriot means more than
empty symbolism and mean-
ingless words of support; it

means thinking for oneself,
and it means action.

As to my complaint at the
start of this story, let me say
this: whether you support the
way in Iraq or not, there are
courageous men and women
out there who are fighting on
our behalf who deserve our
praise and support. Let me
give you a website URL: http:/
/wwwsupportyourtroops.us/
links.cfm. This will direct you
to any number of sites where
you can really show your
support for the troops. Me, I
donated cash to a National
Guard unit that was being for-
ward deployed to Iraq with-
out body armor. My $40, pal-
try as it may be, will at least
help some guy on the front
who is fighting on my behalf
to feel a little safer. I think
that’s worth more than any
bumper sticker.

Letters to the Editor

Sweatshops piece excellent

Dear Editor,

Finally, there is something worth reading in
the Ring-tum Phi. The article on Sweatshops, pro
and con, was a piece that expanded awareness.
Everyone is against sweatshops, right? The de-
bate format brought out the complexities that turn
it into one of the grey areas of life, and what a great
way to tap some of the knowledge of our intema-
tional students.

—Linda Davis, Physics/Engineering Secretary

File sharing ethical

DearEditor,

I would like to express my thoughts on the
issue of file sharing, an issue which is hotly de-
bated across the country and which has been de-
bated in papers on this very campus.

Many arguments against file sharing are based
on the idea that downloading free music is “steal-
ing” in the same way as shoplifting. Yet this idea
assumes that music (i.e. information) is no different
than traditional goods like food and clothing. This
assumption is invalid because information is not
subject to the scarcity that governs other goods.
Not only is information not scarce, and therefore
not subject to opportunity cost, but it is indeed
multiplicative in nature. Once information is passed
to an individual, s/he can pass this on to others,
who in turn pass it on, and we see the exponential
dispersion of information. As any first-year stu-

dent of economics learns, scarcity is necessary for
the determination of value in an economy—noth-
ing has intrinsic worth. -How, then, can one “steal”
something when its worth is not even well-defmed?

Another common argument is that file sharing
takes money away from those who work hard to
produce the music. Again, this argument rests upon
the assumption that music has intrinsic value. It
does not. Consumers do not purchase the labor of
sound technicians and producers—they produce
the information. Everything and everyone respon-
sible for making the final product need to be viewed
as costs of production. Since we are talking about
people’s time and real money spent on recording
equipment, these costs are real. Yet the value of
the product remains unchanged (i.e. undeﬁned),
and, thus, input costs are indeﬁnitely greater than
the market price——bad news for the recording in-
dustry.

Many will ask: what about other types of in-
formation—books, newspapers, and magazines?
Like all forms of information, these products are
subject to the above exceptions. The difference is
that media producers have created artiﬁcial scar-
city by distributing these forms of information on
paper. I use the term “artiﬁcial” because they claim
to be selling information, but in reality people buy
these goods because they do not have access to
expensive printers and glossy paper. As we see
the same information ﬁnding its way onto the

Internet, this inconvenience fades away, and people
look online for news just as they go online to down-
load music. The same is true of the music business:
before CD recorders and ﬁle sharing networks,
people were forced to pay for information because
they lacked access to distribution. VV1thout such
constructed impediments to the dispersion of in-
formation, the market falls apart for reasons stated
above.

Stepping away from music for a moment, can’t
we really sense the absurdity in the idea of tweak-
ing proﬁts from the spread of information? Should
Einstein’s estate receive royalties every time a physi-
cist publishes a paper using the equation E = mcz?
Should we pay Shakespeare’s distant relatives ‘ev-
ery time we quote a sonnet? It would be impossible
to track the number of times these ideas are used
every single day. The beauty of information is pre-
cisely the way in which it freely expands, educating
the masses and providing a greater sense of per-
sonal freedom. To construct artiﬁcial barriers to
inhibit this natural process is tyrannical and should
not be masked under the false claim to moral right.
-Sincerely, Joel Pepera, ‘O4

Payne Hall renovation coverup?

DearEditor,

The purpose of this letter is merely to think aloud,
and to encourage others to do so. I write concerning
the giant red wall on the back of the colonnade. Ast

both a townie and student with my ear to the street, I
have gathered the following information. This back
part of Payne Hall, formerly the Deans suite, is being
renovated into an executive dining room for the higher
ups. I understand that it is the result of a conditional
gift by a benefactor who earmarked the funds for this
purpose. There are several points I take issue with.

Why has the dining room been plarmed for the
colonnade, when there is such a scarcity of class-
room space? I am in a class right now that was origi-
nally scheduled for the same classroom as TWO other
simultaneous classes. There are students and instruc-
tors forced into the bowels of Leybum library. One
semester, 3/4 of my classes were located in the same
building as the dining hall. On that note, what is wrong
with old Letitia Pate Evans as a respectable location
for the new dining room? In moving the Deans to the
commons, we freedup valuable space for faculty of-
ﬁces and classrooms, and then immediately took it
away again.

The other thing that confuses me is the very
presence of the camouﬂaged, totally enclosed wall in
back of Payne. What is its purpose other than to
deceive and inveigle? The University has always
been quick to tout planned and underway COnSlI1lC-
tion projects, but someone is being quite secretive
about this one, perhaps to avoid what students and
faculty alike might have to say about it if it were
brought to light.

-Sincerely, Timothy Litzenburg, ‘O4

   

  Retail

 

 "*3$;.->.<s-»~,;ez=:- .=3r_«z&3 l>('s4>'«.<_<¢.:



 selction.

How‘ smart: is this: All the Eextéhenka. you
need for up to 50% off ravtaiét prices. New at
used. ail: you have to do  an to hatt..eam
and type in the l}€3()k’i§t3&$., at 388% numbers...
Then Eat nature take its caurse.

 

rd; 8993 /.'~‘? awe

 
 
 

 

Same texitébntﬁts.
-Smarter prices.

‘-,‘-'1/_.<.;‘<-e.'v.+.=a.:c:,»2 $16342: 535.5%
1:! r,‘_2.za2s‘?n9‘:’£$*ss;? éiizéﬁ 

 

JOHNHYIAND
AsisrANrSroRrsE1)r1oR

FMAI:HYlAN[)@WlJJE)U

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

S

K?  G-Rns.rPi§

Generals continue to slide on losing streak

JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L men’s basketball team lost three
conference contests last week and are now in the
midst of a six game losing streak, dropping their
record to 2-9, 1-4 ODAC.

Last Saturday the Generals were overmatched
against Randolph-Macon, ranked ninth in the na-
tion. W&L kept it close for most of the game, down
nine at halftime and closing the six points to make it
45-39 with just over ten minutes remaining in the
game. The Generals would never get closer as the
Yellow Jacket cruised to a 75-56 victory to remain
undefeated and atop the ODAC standings. For the
game, the Generals were outrebounded 38-29 and
shot 40% from the ﬁeld comparee to Randolph-
Macon’ s sharp shooting 55%. Individually, W&L
was led by freshman forward Coleman Lyons who
contributed 12 points, while sophmore guard Ryan
Flynn added 8 points and 5 rebounds.

The Generals would not get a break, having to

turn around and face another elite ODAC oppo-
nent in Virginia Wesleyan who stands atop the
standings undefeated with Randolph Macon. Once
again, the Generals stayed within striking distance
of a superior opponent for most of the game, down
32-22 at halftime and later cutting the lead to ﬁve
points with just under nine minutes to play at 46-
41. The Marlins overmatched the Generals from
there, closing the game on a 12-4 run to seal the 58-
45 victory. Virginia Wesleyan held a slight 33-30
advantage in rebounds but won the game by
commiting only 8 turnovers to W&L’ s 15, shoot-
ing 44% forrn the ﬁeld to W&L’s 36% and shooting
twice as many free throws. Lyon’s 12 points once
again led the Generals. Flynn and sophomore for-
ward David Will contributed 9 points apiece.
After a difficult weekend, holidng strong
against two quality opponents the Generals seemed
poised to end their losing slide. Aftrer almost a
week off, they traveled to Roanoke on Saturday
evening , opening up a 12-4 lead to start the game.
The run seemed to have gassed the Generals. and

as Roanoke responded with a 20-4 run of their own.
W&L cut the deﬁcit to within four points with just
under 8 minutes remaining in the half but would
never get any closer as the Maroons cruised to
victory. They took a 42-25 lead into halftime and
extended the lead in the second half to earn an 86-
63 victory. The win improved Roanoke’s record to
8-3, 2-2 ODAC. W&L once again struggled with
their ﬁeld goal defense, as the Maroons shot lights
out for most of the game, 52% overall from the ﬁeld

and 46% from behind the three. point ‘are ;’l'”he Gen-

erals shot just 38% from the ﬁeld and 26% from
behind the arc. Freshman guard Chris Halkitis scored
a career high 16 points to lead the Generals, while
Will added a solid 12 points 10 rebound perfor-
mance. .

The Generals hope to turn the tide this week
as their schedule eases up. They face Eastern Men-
nonite at home on Wednesday night before travel-
ling to Lynchburg on Saturday. Both teams sit at

i the bottom of the ODAC standings.

COURTESY SPORTS INRDRMATION
SHOOT. Sophomore Phil Landes goes for a shot.

Womens basketball carries day, victorious

Kim Gunst
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After three tough losses, the women’s basketball team had a
weH-earned victory Saturday afternoon in their gaagainst Virginia

Wesleyan, 69-56.

Despite the General’s losses last week against Randolph Macon
(82-68), EMU (68-65), and Roanoke (67-65), the team remains extremely
conﬁdent. “We are currently 5-6, but four of our losses have been by
less than three points,” junior captain Bethany Darmelly said.

“I think that everyone is very optimistic about the rest of our games.
This season is very exciting because it is one of the first times that
other teams are realizing our potential.”

The team’s positive attitude finally paid off in Saturday’s game
as the Generals proved they are no longer an underdog.
forward Sarah Michaels tied her season-high with a game-high 28
points and was also second on the team with eight rebounds.
Sophomore guard Louis Feve considers the win a much-needed “con—
ﬁdence boost.” The team’s close losses left them feeling that some-

COURTESY Si>oRrs lNK)RMA'l‘ION
28 POINTS. Senior Forward Sarah Michaels tied her season high point
total  the team’s victory over Virginia \Wesleyan.

thing mental was simply not happening, Feve said.
' But the Generals pulled it together when they stole the lead

shortly before halftime, upholding it until the end. Freshman

forward Jessica Hunsinger recorded her ﬁfth double-double of

bounds.

the season after combining 15 points with a game-high 15 re-

Feve and Darmelly also helped lead W&L to a victory. Feve
smoothed out the Generals’ "double-digit scorers with 14 points while

teammate Darmelly also had a season- and garne—high seven assists.

Senior

been having.”

Swim teams compete against Randolph-Macon 1 . .

STAFF REPORTS

The men’s and women’s swim teams both com-
peted in a meet against Randolph-Macon on the
road this weekend. The men dominated the Yellow
Jackets, winning 154.5-79.5. Randolph-Macon de-
feated the women 145-1 17.

Helping the men in their win was senior Eric
Ritter, who placed first in the 100 breaststroke, the
50 freestyle, and the 500 freestyle. He ﬁnished with
times of 1:05.67, 22.32, and 5209.48, respectively.
Junior Chris Colby won the 200 butterﬂy with a
time of 2:02.28, setting a new pool record. He also
placed first in the 100 butterﬂy, ﬁnishing at 54.37.
In the 200 freestyle, sophomore Reed Evans ﬁn-

ished with a winning time of 1:55.06. Freshmen
Michael Ginder and Kevin Hayes placed first in the
100 backstroke with a time 57.76 and first in the 200
breaststroke with a time of 2:26.14, respectively.
In the women’s competition, freshman S-arah
Bloom won the 500 freestyle, coming in at 5:45.49.
Both the men’s and'women’s teams also com-
peted January 3rd at the Florida Atlantic Invita-
tional. The men placed ﬁfth of six teams, and the
women ﬁnished sixth of six teams.
Placing ahead of the men’s team were_ James Madi-
son with 509 points, Pennsylvania with 462, Florida
Atlantic with 425 points, and Davidson with 267.
The Generals ﬁnished with 178 points, followed by
Transylvania with 77 points.
Leading the men was Ritter with pa ﬁfth place ﬁnish

in the 100 freestyle. He clocked in at 49.49. Colby
contributed to the score with a time of 54.70 in the
100 butterﬂy, placing him at sixth in that race.

In the women’s competition, Florida Atlantic
won with 522 points. Coming in behind Florida
Atlantic was Pennsylvania with 467 points,
Davidson with 381.5 points, Florida International
266.5 points, Transylvania with 167 points, and
Washington and Lee with 103 points.

Sophomore Kristine Holda led the women with i

a 10th place time of 57.44 in the 100 freestyle.

The men’s team now has a record of 5-0. They
compete again on January 25 at Gettysburg. The
women’s record is 6-3, 3-1 in the ODAC. They will
also travel to Gettysburg on the 25th for their next
meet.

One-hundred twenty-two W&L students earn scholar-athlete awards

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. —-— Washington and Lee Di-
rector of Athletics Mike Walsh has armounced that
122 students earned Scholar-Athlete awards dur-
ing the recently completed fall term. The students
are all members of W&L athletic teams and achieved
a grade-point average (GPA) of at least 3.500.

Additionally, 13 of the students honored
achieved grade-point averages of 4.0 or higher (an
A+ is worth 4.330 at W&L). Among the students
achieving 4.0 or higher GPA’s were senior cross
country runner Vanessa Adams (Albuquerque,
N.M./Albuquerque Academy), sophomore men’s
tennis player Charles Anderson (Brentwood, Tenn./
Montgomery Bell), freshman women’s soccer player
Emily Binns (Midlothian, Va./Midlothian), junior
ﬁeld hockey and women’s lacrosse player Kristen
Brown (Baltimore, Md./Catonsville), junior All-
ODAC cross country and track athlete Steven
Chambers (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area), senior
Academic All-America women’s soccer player

Tuesday, january 13

Wednesday, January 14

Heather Coleman (Blackwood, N .J ./Triton Re-
gional), seniorA1l-ODAC men’s lacrosse player Matt
Fink (Wilmington, Del/Tatnall), freshman men’s la-
crosse player Jason Fitzsimmons (Bridgewater, N .J ./
Bridgewater-Raritan), sophomore ﬁeld hockey
player Courtney Harrison (Richmond, Va./Colle-
giate), senior men’s tennis player Seth Martin (Bryn
Mawr, Pa./Radnor), sophomore women’s tennis
player Lauren Peters (Augusta, Ga./Lakeside), se-
nior All-ODAC men’s tennis player K.C. Schaefer
(Troy, Ohio/Troy) and sophomore track athlete Eliza-
beth T‘wentyman (Falls Church, VaJGeorge Mason).
Other notable athletes to receive Scholar-Athlete

, awards included senior All-ODAC and All-Region

baseball and football player Peter Dean (Vienna,
Va./James Madison), junior All-America women’s
tennis player Lindsay Hagerrnan (Dallas, Texas/
Highland Park), senior All-ODAC and All-Region
women’s soccer player Meghan Hayde
(Massapequa, N.Y./St. Anthony), senior All-ODAC
and All-Region women’s soccer player Fontaine

Thursday, January 15

Marcoux (Washington, D.C./Potomac), senior All-
America swimmer Eric Ritter (Birmingham, Ala./
Mountain Brook), senior All-America men’s la-
crosse player Ansel Sanders (White Stone, Va./
Woodberry Forest), senior ODAC Cross Country
Runner of the Year Andy Schorr (Kingwood, Texas/

. Kingwood), junior All-ODAC and All-Region vol-

leyball player Emily Wolfmg (Mt. Airy, Md./South
Carroll) and junior All-America women’s soccer
player'Kelley Zagol (Berwyn, Pa./Conestoga).
T‘wenty-two of W&L’s 23 varsity athletic pro-
grams achieved a team GPA of at least 3.000, led by

. the women’s soccer team with a 3.391. The highest

men’s team GPA was the men’s tennis team with a
3.389 and no team recorded a GPA lower than 2.870.
W&L had an outstanding fall season on the play-
ing ﬁelds as well. W&L’s nine fall sports teams
combined for a record of 70-28-7 (.700) with volley-
ball and women’s soccer both winning ODAC
Championships and advancing to NCAA Tourna-
ment.

THIS WEEK’s Scr

Friday, January 16

Several coaches from the ODAC have told the Generals
they’re the talk of the league, according to Dannelly. W&L’s
women’s basketball team is no longer considered an easy team to
play—their confidence and talent have made them much more
competitive this year.

Although the Generals’ season looks more promising than last,
Darmelly says the team is still trying to focus on the small mistakes
they make. “We have been in so many close games, so we now
recognize the importance of every possession and the potential
effects that they could have on the outcome of the game,” she said.

“I think that we are all making a much better effort to value
every possession in order to avoid these close games that we’ve

The Generals will return to ODAC action Tuesday when they
host Hollins at 7:00 p.m. I

iwrestling-com-ewe-
petes in Davidson
Quadrangular

A proud three-man wrestling team trav-
eled to Davidson, North Carolina to represent
Washington and Lee in the Davidson Qua-
drangular. Other teams competing included
Gettysburg, Davidson, and Pensacola Chris-
tian College.

The team has had a rough season because
of small numbers. “It’s been a disappointing
season. We started out with about 12 guys,
but our team has now dwindled down to only
3 wrestlers,” says freshman Maxwell Courtney.

The biggest disappointment came at the
loss of senior Mike Bennett. An injury to his
shoulder at the team’s first competition against
VMI left the Generals without their strongest
competitor. Bennett claimed an undefeated
season last year.

Because of the small team status, the boys
were not able to truly compete in the Davidson
Quadrangular and had to forfeit 8 matches.

“We are looking to focus on individual
success,” explained Courtney, the team’s sole
match-winner. “All of our matches build up to
the Centennial Conference tournament at the
end of February.”

With much anticipation, the team contin-
ues to train under Coach Gary Franke for the
final tournament. The Generals will compete
next when they host a home tournament on
January 17th.

Saturday, January 17

-DULE

Sunday, January 18

0 W Basketball vs.

Hollins--7 :00 7:00

0-M Basketball vs. EM U--

OPEN

0 W Basketball at VWC-
-7:00

0 Wrestling host W&L
Invitational--10:00

0 W Basketball at
Lynchburg--3:00

° M Basketball at
Lynchburg--5:00

0 M Basketball vs.
Hampden-Sydney

PAGE 6

 

Becky Aimen

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

Lizzie Doll Sarah Murray
Brie Allen   Elizabeth Eckman Kah Ndi
Jean Angelico Caroline Finigan Amy Nunez
Anna Kelly Hishta ' Molly Potekhen
Arendshorst Laing Humphries Jessica Raatz
Sara A Jessica Hunsinger Susan Rudolph
Behmerwohld CarolAnn Irby Jen Sanders
Emily Binns Beth Iten Caroline Schierle
Maria Blackwell Meghan J oss Sonia Siu
Rachel Brooks Katie Kingsbury Sarah Strassel
Mallory Calhoun Christie Lee Kiltie Tompkins
Lisa Catullo Elyse Moody   Caitlin Walker Lieb
Emily Deutsch Lara Muller J Erin Waskom

  KappaAlpha Theta proudly
presents and welcomes
our new members for 2004!

     

Rebecca Hatchett

 

Kim Babbitt Maggie Megear
Sarah Bloom Anna Heatwole Sarah Otey
Meg Bruckmann Sarah Helms  Ke|lyPrice A
Rebecca Cohn  Ashley Hurt  Huntley Rodes

    
 

  

Natalie Days    Julie Jackson *Emily Sberna

Jamie DorseY  S Christina Leaton Karina Schless ,
_ane Earnest Lindsay Lecky Caroline Simonson '
_auren Edmonson Rachael Levine Tippins Stone =~
Amy Eliason Mallory Lobisser Anne Taylor Tipton ‘
Kelly Evans Avery Lovejoy   Niki Tsiknakis A B’
Elise Gelinas Emily Mcdowell Amy Volkman

Katie Green    Anne Wiltshire “

Mary Harris Virginia Wortham

 

MONDAY, IANUARY 12,2004

 

i”l"RT‘ISEMENTS         W
  Ti Jﬁeta Q’hi  
‘Wishes to ‘Welcome its 2004 Tlecfqe Class

. Ekanem Akpakip Wendy Kan g
Katie Camplall Victoria Kesselman
Elizabeth Cone Ellen Lide
Katherine Connolly Monica Magnuson
Justine Dargahi Bree Melton
Robin Davis Laura Pekman
Emily DeV0e Nadia Prinz
Darla Dixon Carissa Shipley
Stephanie Dodson Malinda Smith  
Emily Edwards Sarah Elizabeth
A Anne Finley Soathwonh
Anne Gleason Allison Stokan
Valerie Hannon Catherine Swan

Marika Ishikawa Erin Talllel”
Lauren  MlCh€l€ T7’l€l"0l/DC
     B’   Rebecca Vanderlinde ‘

 

 

Congratulations

to the new  
  pledge class of
  KappaDelta!!

   

‘ Adrienne Adkins Ileather Hart Lindsay Pace
Brynne Archer Kathryrl Heaberg . Cassie Pedroza
Emily Balentine   Khakl Howe A Audra Pratt

Courtney Blake L Megan Hunt Maggie Puryear

Sara Kell Bowers Cardme Kirk Abby Sauter
Kathryn Brennan A T LIZ Lane — Stephanie Shafer
Cara Burton T Alex 1:a¥m°“   Lisa Smith
Maggie Canby Beth Lldmsky Laura Anne Taylor
' Kristen Chasse Shawnay Mazeui Bebe Terrell
Rebecca Clinton Kn_Sten Mccllmg Annie Thompson
Whitney Dickson l lzabeth M1115 Megan Walker
  Amanda Haines Lane MOW“ Tricia Williams
Abby Olson  

J_,

 

A  me E

 

RTISEMENTS    M°”DAY»lAN““”’2°°4

Congratulations to the    »
  2004 Pledge Class  ~
ofKappa Kappa Gamma!!!!! ~

Beth Hunter   Mary Tipton . Megan Ward
Kaylee Hartung Thalheimer Sarah Brucker Northen ,
Bradley Arendall Julie Harris   Suzanna Humphries
Camille Allen _ Sarah Mills Katie Long   0 ,
Alexis Richardson Devon Morten Callie Ellis .
Claire Graff Amy Brown Morgan Hill   ‘
Blair Hawes Katie Garret Elizabeth Robinson
Marjie Zethraus   Laura Hornbuckle   Valerie Delaune ~  
Brynn Chandler Katherine Shell Ellen Quinlan
Sarah Dozier Jane Lancaster Hartley Merick f "
McLean Donovan Katie Weber Mary Stuart Couch
Natalie Dillree Polina Berlin Ashley Cassels
Milena Ricci Jean Rose Clawater  

  Need a rest from
everyday life? Ring-

Treat yourself to a mm
luxurious full body massage by Phi

K Harris, BA, CMT     i i
Certified Massage Therapist $3): 4 5 8 — 8 9 O O

Board of Nursing Certiﬁed
13 Years Experience

 
   

Dispatched drivers 7 nights a 0

Gift Certiﬁcates Make

 

Great Valentine’s Presents! email
‘’‘‘@“”‘“'°““ W k   d k o u
(540) 264-0063   CC COIIIC an p1C )7 11 p.
C 1
- T C
Help out Habltat om “James ompany
. _ . _ ‘Interviews? 1»
Put your change In one of the jars in Internship?
the "0.’”m0"S Special occasion?
Q . . Let us help you look and feel '
Triple Nme Society our best" r
Founded 1978 y "
Extraordinary camaraderie "-
in an Custom and Ready Made Suits
international society of peers. and Sports Coats '
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520, ‘ .
GRE 1460, MAT 85; Sh1I‘S»PamS’ Sh?“ and all   ________________ M _
see complete list at: aCC6SS0fl€S ,.
www.triplenine.org T  V d 0 h :
HOUSE FOR RENT Wen, Pack“ es & rave CI‘ ans I'1V€ I C 1‘ 011136  

6 Tucker Street

Available June 2004 Giﬁ‘ Certiﬁcates Availalile day’  and ' 1

3 Bedrooms/1 Bath
Living Room/Large Kitchen ContactAdamWﬂ1iarns d ' h -.
Washer/ Dryer foran appointment or    
Recently Renovated with questions
$840/ mo. .
46319180 evenings/weekends 540-815-4557 ‘

458-5001 weekdays Adam.W1Dian1s@tomjan1es1etai1.com _ ~ Trial Period extension ~

 

MONDAY,]ANUARY 12,2004  

  Junior Meeting
  Tuesday, January 13

Commons Theater 7 :00 p.m.

  Guest Speakers:

Jeﬁrey Barnett, Associate Professor Romance language/Dir: Global Stewardship
George Bent, Associate Dean of the College/R. E. Lee Summer Research Program
Scott Boylan, Associate Professor of Accounting
Stacy McLoughlin, Service Learning Coordinator; Shepherd Program

Join the Career Services staff and special guests

to learn the steps for:

* choosing majors  
* taking a career interest test  SERWCES
* exploring careers

* meeting alumni

* Writing a resume

You will receive your Career Services folder with materials to assist you in mapping your career/intemship activities

Sophomore Meeting
Thursday, January 15

    7:00 p.m. Commons Theatre

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

   

Become a BonnerLeader »

Applications due to Avery Gholston on January 16, 2004
Interviews January 20 from 2:30-4:30 and January 21 from 3:30-4:30
Sign up for an interview time when you drop your application off ’

Bonner Leaders do all kinds of exciting things. ’
Sarah Weil ‘O6 judged a benefit horseshow,
Daniel Vos ‘O4 tutored Sudanese Lost Boys and , 4

Lauren ‘Partridge ‘O5 got a weave put in her ‘hair by 6 year olds.

A Bonner Leader is: .
Dedicated, Committed, Friendly... ‘

If you have any questions,
contact Avery at 458-8131 or at gho|stona@w|u.edu _ 4

The Celebrating Student Success Committee would like to recognize the following for
their outstanding contributions to Washington and Lee in the following areas:

Recreation: Ryan Dufy, ‘O4, for his services as President of the Rugby club
Publications: Paul Seifert, ‘O4, for his work as business manager of the Ring-tum Phi
Performing Arts: Caleb Dulis, ‘O4, for his dedication to \W8CL theater
Performing Arts: Brandon Waddell, ‘O4, for his work with the theater and Pieces of the Puzzle "

 
 
 
 
    

   

r—5/W’ A Us ’’%~ ROOM University “J
scam PRINTING F°““ENT Cleaners   '
g ff) 10,421§;°dI:,S0mS WE’LL GET RID or YOUR DIRT ’
“it C; Q r Upstairs apartment
  (:6 .  Utilities included g '
“N  4miles from campus Great service i
«'37 Waddell St. 6 Ca111Pf;iJ1:§::f:§§f3644 First—Rate Quality ,
 (f,;‘x°()s4g;?‘  A 7 North Jefferson Street dry cleaning,
J 463-3622 laundry, alterations 4 _ V .
srsrvsucm _
Golf E tlquette *

   
   

 

hi: .... .. n  
w  gm», Wt»,  Li J tip of the
/ " ’ 5 week: ’

 

Gnzsm Law. .  Rmcsst
l3lL»'tTE$i§§LE'x' .-ER i‘J'iElH’x3f3

5&3?-=45€~3é$}’
  Replace your

309 N. min St. d -
Lexington, VA 24450 .  I ,

    

Yr? 5, Sam (ash, Go Free!
New mag Omtampvs Reps

 
  

 

.3 www.s:2ns§1ash%ear$ as

 

MEGANMORGAN

ARis&IrEEnn0R
FMAIL-MoRc;ANM1@WLU1~DU
MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2004

 

8t LIFE

PAGE 11

Think everyone goes Greek? Meet independent Zack McQui g g

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
. STAFF WRITER

According to Inter—Fraternity Council Ad-
visor, Matt Jacobs, roughly 80% of men on
campus are members of a fraternity, give or
take about 5% either way. On a campus as domi-
nated by Greek life as ours, independents can
seem far and few between. As formal rush con-
cludes pledgeship looms, promising to claim
every waking moment for the men of the fresh-
man class. As the boys disappear from resi-
dence halls, many freshmen will be left won-
dering, “Is the entire school Greek?”

Meet Zack McQuigg. He’s a senior man-
agement major from Baltimore. Freshman year
he played football and remains the football
team’s biggest fan. He likes to post campus
notices, usually concerning proper campus
notice etiquette or the now infamous

Surgeon’s Generals— though most people still

aren’t sure exactly what the Surgeon’s Gener-
als ever really were. Talk to anyone that knows
him and you’ll hear about his wisecracking
sense of humor. Friends say he’s a great guy
and an even better friend. They’ll tell you he’s
spontaneous——who else but Zack would nomi-
nate himself for homecoming court? Again and
again you’ll be told that he’s hilarious and
maybe just a tad ridiculous, in the best of ways
of course. Probably the least important thing
you need to know about him is that he’s an
independent.

For Zack not being in a fraternity is a non-
issue. It's not something that he defines him-
self by; he’s not Zack the independent, but
rather he’s just Zack and he happens to be an
independent. He cites many reasons for why
he didn’t go through formal rush: he didn’t
drink, he had a girlfriend at home, he played

WINNERs

 

Lip Synch! Students sing and dance for the Washington and Lee University community as part of the
annual Lip Synch contest held annually everyjanuary since 1987. The event, sponsored by the
Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger, is student run and operated. This year’s Lip Synch
committee consists of Ansel Sanders, 04, Thomas Worthy, O5, Pierce Owings, O6 and advisor John
T. Taffe.

football, but mostly he just didn’t want to. “All
my friends did... but Ijust didn’t care. Ijust
didn’t agree with the whole process,” Zack
explains. -
Part of his ability to survive as an inde-
pendent on campus is probably based in
Zack’s self-confident nonchalance. “I don’t.
try to fit in with people. I am who I am. Ijust
get along with anyone,” he explains. He
doesn’t fit into a box, nor does he really want
to, and he’s happy the fraternity system hasn’t
pigeon-holed him. Often after rushing, people
can get caught up in the stereotypes of the
Greek system. “A lot of people try to be what
the fraternity is,” Zack explains, but “I’m still
the same person I was when I came here.”
Another key to his happiness can be attrib-
uted to his close—knit group of friends. For
some independents the thought of living situ-
ations sophomore year can be slightly in-

The 17th Annual Lip Synch will be held on January 23rd in the Student Activites Pavillion. All E.C.
recognized organizations are eligible and encouraged to participate in the event. Admission is $10 and can be
swiped home. Sign-up sheets for the acts will available outside the Commons from Monday the 19th to
Thursday the 22nd. A mandatory meeting for the heads of all the acts will be held on the 22nd. Look for
posters and campus notices for more detailed information.

timidating. Most of their friends will move into
the house, and they’ll be “left alone in either
Woods Creek or Gaines. Fortunately for Zack, that
“wasn’t an issue at all.” All of his best friends
pledged KA, and the KA pledge class was so
large that they overﬂowed into Woods Creek. Zack
lived with four KA’s sophomore year—the people
he always knew he would live with. Those guys
are still some of his closest friends, so Zack never
lacks on social activities. He spends so much time
with the KA’s that many people on campus as-
sume he’s a brother, never considering that he
might be an independent.

Reﬂecting on the Greek system and his nearly
four years here, Zack is glad that he’s not in a
fraternity, but he’s not opposed to the system in
general. “For this town it’s good. Without it, the
school would pretty much suck,” he explains.
“There’s ﬂaws in it, but what do I know? I’m not
in one.”

Several new films showing this January

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS 8: LIFE ED1ToR

This January, students
have the opportunity to at-
tend showings of several
films, both domestic and
foreign, which will be pre-
sented by various organi-
zations throughout the
month. All of the films will
be shown in the Elrod Com-
mons Theatre unless other-
wise noted and are open
free of charge to the Wash-
ington and Lee community.
Below is a description of
the upcoming films and the
dates that they will be
showing.

On January 12 and the
15”‘, Washington and Lee
University will present the
film Intolerable Cruelty, a
romantic comedy starring
George Clooney as divorce
lawyer”.-Miles Massey and
Catherine Zeta Jones as
the gold—digger he spars
against through her numer-
ous divorces and remar-
riages. The film, directed
by the Coen brothers
whose other films include
“Raising Arizona”, “The
Big Lebowski,” and “O
Brother Where Art Thou”,
will be shown at 7 p.m. on
the 12”‘ and 9 p.m. on the
15'“. R

At 9 p.m. on January

l3“‘, the university will
show the film Lost in Trans-
lation starring Bill Murray
and Scarlett Johansson and
directed by Sofia Coppola
who made her directorial
debut in The Virgin Sui-
cides. Murray plays and ag-
ing star that is reduced to
making whiskey commer-
cials in Japan. Free from a
loveless marriage and
struggling with boredom,
he befriends a young Yale
graduate who is staying in
the same hotel while her
photographer husband is
on assignment.

At 7:30 p.m. on the. 16"‘
and 17”‘, the film society
will present the film
L ’ A u b e r g e
Espagn0le,which is in
Spanish and French with
English subtitles. The film,
released in 2002, is about a
Frenchman that is required
to learn Spanish for a new
job andenters an decides
to enter an exchange pro-
gram in Barcelona. While
there, he shares an apart-
ment with other students
from all over the continent.
The film, in addition to be-
ing a coming of age com-
edy, also shows the ben-
efits and problems facing a
newly-united Europe. USA
Today says the film “ener—
getically captures the fren-
zied pace of contemporary

existence, thecomplexities
of life in a multicultural
world, the rootless joys of
living in a foreign city and
the heady world of possi-
bilities one envisions while
in college.”

On the 20”‘ and 22“"- the
Minority Students Associa-
tion will host a showing of
the film Boycott in the
Northen Auditorium at 9
p.m. to celebrate Martin
Luther King Day. The film,
created by HBO Studios as
a made-for cable drama,
chronicles the 1955-56
Montgomery Bus Boycott,
which started the modern-
day Civil Rights movement
and launched Martin Luther
King Jr. onto the national
stage.

Finally at 7:30 p.m. on
January 23"‘ and 24"‘, the
W&L Film Society will
present Thirteen. The film,
which was written by and
stars thirteen year old Nikki
Reed, tells of a smart, geeky
“good” girl that falls under
the inﬂuence of the popular
and reckless Evie. The film
follows Tracy’s transition
from child like innocence to
a life of promiscuousness,
drug abuse and self mutila-
tion and the strain this puts
on her relationship with her
single mom who is a recov-
ering alcoholic struggling to
hold her own life together.

BY HAYNES KING
STAFF WRITER

All students at Washington and Lee sit
through standard freshman orientation in Lee
Chapel and have probably even toured the
chapel museum on a visit to Lexington to visit
the college. But with Founder’s Day in the
near future, it would be apropos to revisit the
chapel and remind ourselves of the great his-
tory behind this univer— '
sity. Often, one forgets
the importance of his or
her surroundings be-
tween the classes, meet-
ings, and homework of
his or her daily routine.

Although called
Lee chapel, the building
was not intended by
Robert E. Lee to be a
church, but an audito-
rium for all purposes of
Washington College.
Even today, it has a greater seating capacity
than even the Lenfest Center, meaning that it
is the largest auditorium on campus. Construc-
tion of the chapel was completed in 1868, two
years before Lee’s death. During Lee’s presi-
dency, the college held daily worship services.
A plaque marks the pew where Lee sat for these
services.

Lee Chapel houses two extremely important
paintings: the Pine portrait of Lee during the War
Between the States and the Peale portrait of Wash-
ington as a colonel in the Virginia Military. The
Washington portrait, however, is on loan and not
presently in the chapel.

 

Lee Chapel museum neccesary
stop for every W&L student

In the basement of Lee Chapel, Lee’s of-
ﬁce sits much like it did his last day that he did
work there. The basement also included a stu-
dent center and the library when the chapel
opened in 1868. Now there is a museum that
includes the Washington-Custis—Lee Portrait
Collection. These three Virginia families are
included in this collection. George Washing-
ton Custis Lee, son of Robert E. Lee and the
following president of Washington College af-

ter the death of his father
gave the beginning of the
collection to the college.
In 1918, his sister Mary
gave the remaining por-
traits in the collection to
the university.

The chapel can now
be used for personal rea-
sons, such as marriages.
Unfortunately the de-
mand for the use of the

> chapel requires that only
people connected to the
university are able to use it.

The historians that give tours of Lee
Chapel are knowledgeable about the subject,
and they are more than willing to answer any
questions that you may have. A nice gift shop
sells many books and portraits of both Wash-
ington and Lee. The Lee Chapel museum also
has possibly the finest and cleanest bath-

rooms anywhere on campus. So, if you are _

already down there,‘I would suggest taking
advantage of the facilities. Finally, don’t for-
get to say hello to Traveller, Lee’s beloved
horse, whose remains are buried to the right
of the entrance to museum.

 

 

PAGE 12

Top 10:
Undergrad cars

Jeep, Accord among favorites

Data provided by University Security

91 Jeep
Cherokees

 

www.jeep.com

71 Ford
Explorers

 

www.f0rd.c0m

49 Honda
Accords

 

www.honda.com

47 Toyota
4Runners 4

    

www.toy0ta.c0m

35 Volvo
sedans

   

www.chevrolet.com

33 Honda
Civics
I www.honda.com

30 Nissan
Pathﬁnders

 

www.n1ssanusa.com

24 VW
J ettas

 

WWW.VW.C0m

 1 0

 

www.toyota.Com

KATIE]. HOWELL / 7l9eRing-tum Phi

THE “ill”

 

 

lvl1r;ANl/IORGAN
AR”IS&LIFEEDIl0R
mm m

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

Rush week is over, good riddance to it

I love fraternities. I love the friend-
ships that they form, the camaraderie
they foster, and theifun times that they
facilitate. Fraternities, contrary to oc-
casional public stigmas, can be good
things. We at W&L know this particu-
larly well.

Yet every year when Rush Week comes
around, I sometimes wonder why I’ve al-
lowed myself to condone, and even defend
(in these very articles I write) these frater-
nities which cause so much drama, trauma,
and pain for one glorious week.

A On paper, Rush Week seems pretty
sweet. In one final display of the perfect
fraternal image, the houses welcome the
freshman fellas into their houses, treat them
all to free meals and free des-
serts, and of course invite them
to come back to get the all-im-
portant bid. It seems so simple.
Freshmen decide which houses
they like. Fraternities decide which fresh-
men they like. When a freshman likes a
fraternity who likes the freshman, then ev-
erything works out, presumably.

If only it were that easy.

Rush Week is characterized by hurt
feelings. Whether we like to admit it or
not, fraternity guys can be sort of sensi-
tive when random freshman X who is uni-
versally liked decides to look elsewhere
to a supposedly “cooler” fraternity. Man,
it feels so great to be considered the Not-
Cool-Enough-Absolute—Frat—Lord.
Thankfully, we frat boys get our revenge.
We get to decide who doesn’t make the
cut. Naturally, every fraternity boy, hav-
ing been infused with the glorious wis-
dom and knowledge that only fraternities
can create in one’s mind, is a perfect
judge of character and can deem effort-
lessly who is worthy of the all-important
bid.

I’m lucky. I committed a cardinal Rush
sin, and suicide—rushed the one fraternity
I liked. Thankfully, I got a bid. Thus, I
never got that phone call that so many
freshman are now familiar with. It usually
goes something like this: “Is this Billy-
Bob” — “Yeah” — “Hey this is Cletus over
-at Alpha Beta Gamma" — “Hey whats up” —
“I’m just calling to let you know that things
aren’t going to work out with our house.
The brothers talked it over and think per-

 

haps you should explore other options.”

Translation = You’re not Alpha Beta
Gamma material. Maybe you looked at a
brother the wrong way. Maybe you danced
with a brother’s hot porn-star-looking girl-
friend at a band party. Maybe you’re also
looking at another lesser fraternity as an op-
tion, a big no-no. Maybe you have a uni-
brow and you smell. Who really knows? All
you know is that you were essentially told
that you’re not cool enough to be in that
fraternity. Man, that sounds pretty sweet,
right?

Meanwhile, it’s not any easier for the fra-
ternities. You wanna see frat boys fight? You
wanna see frat boys cry? Why don’t you sit
for a few hours in a fraternity bid session?

a It’s no easy thing deciding on
relationships which will af-
fect you for the rest of your
undergrad years. Certainly,
we fraternity guys are infi-
nitely wise, as I have said, so it must be easy
to decide who to give bids to, among all the
first impressions, friendships, rumors, and
other people’s opinions that are involved.
Well even the wisdom of frat boys can falter
at times.

Complicating the entire process, which is
plenty annoying already, is the ridiculous stu-
pidity that some fraternities fall into so that
they can win the Rush Week Showdown.
“Hey guys, I got a great idea — let’s tell that
freshman that Fraternity X is lame, full of los-
ers, and they never get any girls over there.
That way he’ll join our house!” Great idea,
let’s dirty rush — I’ll sacrifice my principles
and level of decency to woo some freshman
if you will.

Wait though, that can’t possibly be
enough. “Hey guys, I got another great idea
—— let’s just get these freshmen completely
wasted. That way, they won’t want (be able)
to leave and accept a bid somewhere else.”
Sweet. That’s a sure-fire way to get fresh-
men. And’ if a freshman still tries to leave,
we’ll just let him stumble out of our house
and who cares where he ends up after that? A
great way to treat the guys who we would
welcome as brothers, right? Some fraternity
guys seem to think so.

Why does all this happen? Every year, it
repeatedly seems so blatantly clear. Rush
Week is not about friendships. It’s not about
feelings. It’s not even about fraternities. Rush

Week is simply about Economics. It’s a com-
petition. Look at the aftermath — how do fra-
ternities judge themselves as a Rush suc-
cess? It’s about numbers. They look at the
size of their pledge class, compare it to ev-
eryone else, and then revel in the joy of hav-
ing received respectable numbers. Or they
wallow in the defeat of having a non-accept-
able total. Few fraternity guys stop to think
— “Hey, each of our new pledges hasgreat
character and will be a great friend for years
to come.” When this comes to mind, it usu-
ally does as an afterthought to the success
rating of the pledge class total.

I’m sure I’m not the only one to be dis-
turbed by this. I’ve loved being in a fra-
ternity. Given the choice, I would never
choose otherwise — being a frat boy, a Frat
Lord even, has contributed so many great
things to my college experience. But then,
when I stop to think that perhaps the only
reasons I got into a fraternity was because
I was a number, just a body to make the
pledge class total a little higher, that really
starts to eat at my brain. No one wants to
feel that way — it’s psychologically crip-
pling. We want to believe that we were
invited to join because it meant something,
to ourselves and the brothers who consid-
ered us worthy.

Thankfully, Rush Week is only a blip on
the screen. It’s the one week, more than any
other, when fraternities are transformed into
corporations, vying against each other with
cut—throat tactics to achieve the ultimate goal
— strength in numbers. For the rest of the
year,- fraternities are fraternities, doing all the
things that fraternities are supposed to do —
throw massive parties, drink at unreasonable
times of the day, and cause a general unruli-
ness for society.

Now that Tear Night has come and gone,
fraternity life at W&L can return to this nor-
malcy. Now we can resume the lifestyle
which has all made us realize over and over
again why we love fraternities and why we
are happy to be in one. Rush Week is not
what fraternities are about. If that were the
case, no one in their right minds would want
to join one, and subject themselves to that
kind of senseless crap. Fraternities area
great thing. Rush Week is not a great thing.
That’s why this Frat Lord is glad that he’ll
never have endure another one for the rest
of his days. i

More ideas to save Spring Term: rush tickets, Chick—fil—a

 

Now that winter has descended
on MicroLex with unrelenting
artic fury, balmy days on the Col-
onnade are probably the farthest
thing from students’ minds. None-
theless, with the February meet-
ing of the Trustees
fast approaching,
solutions for sav-
ing Spring Term are 
in order. Hence-
forth, some modest suggestions.
Sell tickets to sorority rush
events. After one’s first two experi-
ences, fraternity rush takes on a
depressing repetitiveness and

 
 

mundaneness. On the other hand, I
sorority rush boasts an ever-
changing variety of songs, skits

and philanthropy projects. ~More-

over, the sheer organizational skill
that sororities manifest in their abil-
ity to efﬁciently and thoroughly
maneuver freshman girls through
the house is singularly impressive.
The most the average frat guy ever

learns about

  THE  these mysteri-

‘ ous produc-

" BREITKIRWAN 04 tions of song
and sisterhood

are scraps of nimors and third—hand

stories. Like the discovery of King
Tut’s tomb or the ﬁrst contact with
a previously unknown tribe, tick-
ets to sorority rush would gener-
ate irnmense enthusiasm and share
the truth about a great enigma. Few
events on our fair campus could
attract upperclassmen willing to

pay top—dollar for tickets like so-
rority rush can.

In fraternities, juniors and
especially seniors take a some-
what hands-off approach to
rush leaving the bulk of the work
to sophomores. Rather than trap
disengaged upperclassmen in
boring rush dinners with fresh-
men whom they barely know,
why not allow them to attend
what are no doubt spectacularly
funny and extraordinarily well-
rehearsed rush events. For an
extra fee, frat guys could partici-
pate in the full range of activi-
ties and attend rush dates as if
they were freshmen girls.

Put .a Starbucks and
Chick-ﬁl-a in the old Co-op.

Despite MicroLex’s status as a
tourist hot spot, mass-market din-
ing options are seriously lacking.
These two establishments stand
out as venues that most students
enjoy at home and lament the lack
of in Lexington. Jack up the prices
and use the proceeds to pay for
more professors. What entrepre-
neur wouldn’t want to sell to such
a captive audience?

Starbucks is a no-brainer.
Since the designer, over-priced
coffee craze swept the nation, all
Americans, and college students
especially, have become addicted
to Peppermint Mocha
Frappuccinos and Caramel
Macchiatos. Even my Chinese
teacher from Taiwan said the thing

she missed most about home was
the lack of a Starbucks in Lexing-
ton. Putting a Starbucks in the
Co-op would plug a gaping hole

in student services and raise a '

pretty penny for Spring Term.
Imagine how much students
would pay for Iced Chai if they
could-swipe it home.

Being a damn Yankee, my
exposure to Chick-ﬁl—a’s famous
sandwich is somewhat limited,
but the draw of the crucial pick-
les drives many students to fol-
low the advice of the
restaurant’s spokescows to “Eat
Mor Chikin.” The Co-op is
great, but desperate times call for
desperate measures (and the
competition might drive the price

 

MAD Cow? Generals love Chick-ﬁl-'
a. Build one in the Co-op.

of the cheesesteak). Even no-
where school SUNY-Cortland has
an on campus Chick-ﬁl-a, why
doesn’t W&L?

 

“'75

Q State Chairs want to know: Will Professor
Denbow be holding office hours after Mock Con
concludes?

 

Q “I have more bills than a ﬂock of ducks.” —Spliter
Staniar -

Q Freshmen Jim Ryan and Lane Earnest have an-
nounced that they will be getting married next month
in Lee Chapel. All are welcome!

Q Actually, not a single girl wants to know how
many licks it takes to get to the center of a Lalli pop,
maybe you should ask CC.

(I) The students of Washington and Lee, as a
group, are rarely so collectively hung—over as they
are following Tear Night.

Q The new Lord of the Rings rocked. I liked it
so much that I proceeded to buy the movie poster
from the cinema and rub it all over my naked, cold
body pretending it was rnithril and I was Frodo,
the hobbit.

Q A certain male lacrosse player told me that it
only takes a few licks to finish off a Lalli pop. 1

Q Whitney Doss needs to come hang out on
Baker first ﬂoor. Or, she at least needs to go out
so we can see her more.

Q Whatever happened to free Cokes and cof-
fee during exam week? I guess the administration
got rid of them so they could give themselves a
pay raise and create a new position—— Vice-Dean
of Crossgender Social Relations with the Main-
tenance Staff.

Q If W&L Life wants to be really helpful, they
should pass out fewer bell-bedecked condoms
on date weekends and more aspirin on Sunday
mornings.

Q More on that note: For our small school of
only 2,000 students, the school purchases 4,000
condoms each year.

Q Congratulations to all the new sorority
women.

/

Q Utah and Kansas are the only two states in the
Unionthat send more law students than undergradu-
ates to W&L.

Q Friday was the 126th anniversary of King
Umberto I’s ascension to the Italtian throne.

Q Many thanks to the Rho Chis who helped th
freshmen girls make excellent choices. '

Q Guru is the Sanskrit name of the planet Jupiter,
which in vedic astrology is believed to exert teach-
ing inﬂuences.

Q Holy icicles, Batman! What is up with the frigid
temperatures that have cursed MicroLex this week?

Q Don’t tell anybody, but Steve Tomlinson is
sleeping with the Dean’s secretary.

Q Howard Stern turns 50 today. Rush Limbaugh
turns 53. What about being born on January 12 led
to radio stardom?

Q Way to go women’s basketball. They really
are awesome.

Q What's cooler than being cool?

Q I’m sort of disappointed more Mock Con del-
egations haven’t thrown parties yet.

Q Learn the difference between adjectives and
adverbs. ’

Q The band last night at SAE was awesome. Be
sure to return, Monticello Road.

Q The Commons would really becomplete if only
it boasted the same powdered hand soap dispens-
ers that make Leybum such a special place.

Q I’m disappointed that Volvo station wagons aren’t
one of the ten most popular cars on campus. They’re
really cool and seem to be virtually omnipresent.

Q Was anybody else surprised to see Professor
Velasquez, of all the professors on campus, mak-
ing the rounds on Tear Night?

Q Shake it like a twin star sister.
Q All bid day shirts should be long-sleeved.

Q Last year’s Pi Phi bid day shirts were heinous.
Well done this time, girls.

(I) Are you worried that Mock Con is less than
three weeks away and no one seems to know what
is going on?

Q“ E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and wacky
Tear Night tales to phi @wlu. edu.

  

(

 

