Fiji house corps
tells of wrongdoing

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

The 2004 pledgeship season has been plagued with Washing-
ton and Lee security investigations. Security will now be investi-
gating hazing allegations against Fiji for the second time this year.
After F ij'i's first investigation in February, the IF C cleared them of
all charges concerning sleep deprivation.

But this second time around, Fiji admits to instructing pledges

“to drink a ‘treat’ which included teriyaki sauce, ketchup, mustard, '

and other household condiments. ” A statement from the president of
F ij'i’s House Corporation also lists other potential hazing oﬂenses
involving alcohol, eggs, and water balloons at off—campus houses.
Fiji, however, is still under investigation. The IFC will hear
their case soon. Fiji is not the only fraternity to face hearings from
the IF C, which cleared Chi Psi after an investigation earlier this
year. Three other fraternities are currently under investigation.
Fiji is the only house to give details of ongoing investigations.

We want to acknowledge that the IFC will be opening an investigation
mtoaHegedhazingacﬁviﬁessponsoredbycenainhidividr.1alsﬁomthePlﬁ
GamrnaDeltafratemity. Wewaritthe schooltohearﬁornthehouseleadership
ﬂiatweareveryomceniedaboutﬂieseaﬂegaﬁmisaridwiﬂnothideariydﬁng
ﬁomtheadministIationortheIFC. We haveoonductedanintemal investiga-
tion that included comprehensive interviews of all members of the fraternity.
We areveiy concerned aboutthe security and safety of ourpledges. Wehave
uiedtosetanexmripleforaHGreekorgmnzaﬁmsbysendinganBssage&Iatwe
don‘t take any hazing allegations lightly and that we have made all of our
information available to the IFC. The following is what we have concluded
following our investigation

An unscheduled, unauthorized pledge training event took place witli—
outthe supervision of the house oﬁioers. Alcohol was present by certain

  R WAsH1NcEi:i\; AND'iFiE UNIVERSITY

Tloestutleot ooice ofll’/osliirzgtoo ortdlee Uoioersizysioce 1897

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN

I EH MONDAY,MARCH 15,2004

Mb 3'

VoLuME@v'lll,No.Vlll

~«

Historic State Theater underin ajor changes

ASST ARTS 85 LIFE EDITOR

Students will only have to wait about another month or two
before the State Theatre reopens after renovations totaling almost
$500,000. Major construction plans include repairs on ﬂoors and
improvements in heating and air conditioning.

One major feature the State Theatre was lacking was a handi-
capped accessible bathroom. That will be added as well as a new
concession stand.

Don Hasfurther, Executive Director of the Lexington Down-
town Development Authority (LDDA), plans on working with 10-
cal people who will be involved in construction as well as the
management group to help them with ﬁnancial decisions. The
State Theatre qualiﬁes for both federal and Virginia historic tax
credits since all of downtown Lexington is a federally registered
historic district.

The State’s three cinemas currently hold 700 people, but after
the renovation, it will hold only 600. The theatre will retain three
cinemas, but the seats will be further spaced further apart. “By

‘ taking out the current seating in there, and it is very cramped. . .they

are going to increase the number of people who come to that the-
ater in the evenings and therefore are going to benefit," said
Hasfurther.

“It really is‘a very important project for a downtown,” said
architect Kathy Frazier, “There aren’t too many downtowns in
Shenandoah Valley anymore that have theaters.” She went on to
say that a theater is a business establishment that brings people
into downtown. While waiting on a movie, they will shop or go get
something to eat at a café.

This renovation is the first major project since the theatre was
rebuilt after a fire. Warner Brothers actually hired architects to

..  . 1
]EB BRooxs/ 7heRmg-tumPbz

rebuild the burned State Theatre in 1938. In the late thirties, the-
atres were very ornate places. Until 1987, the State had one theatre
with a balcony. The balcony was converted into two separate
theatres.

R/C Theatres of Maryland, a theatre group that owns cinemas
in ﬁve states, currently owns the State_Theatre.

Honor Scholars descend on campus this week

upperclassmen, which is a violation of University policy on pledge ed1ica-
tion. It went directly against instruction from the House Corporation and
rides set forth by the chapter leadership.

We are apologetic to all pledges present who were forced to 
We acknowledge that calisthenics were enforced, and that the pledges were
instructed to drink a ‘ ‘treat’ which included teriyaki sauce, ketchup, mustard,
and other household condiments. This is in direct violation of the H‘C’s
regulations and can be construed as hazing.

We acknowledge that the pledges were involved in some sort of egg
tossing and water balloon activities that are strictly prohibited by fraternity
and University policy. The chapter leadership is concerned that these
activities took place without o1Ir knowledge, and we want to ensure the
pledges that these actions will not be tolerated in the flIl1lIB._

We have concerns for the freshman who did not ﬁle a formal allegation
aga.instthehousebutwhowasdirectedbyDeanLeonardtoanswerhon—
estly regarding the night’s activities. The Zeta Deuteron leadership and
fraternity will strongly support this freshman, who did nothing wrong but
respondedhonesﬂytouiquinesﬁomDeanLeonmdbasedontheUniversity’s
Honor Code.

Chapterleadershipplanstoimposeseveieperialﬂesagamstﬁiemdivithr
als involved in this unauthorized event to prevent oifcampus activities like this
fromtakingplaceinthefutuie. Inaddition,theHouseCorporationandleader-
ship will implement ‘comprehensive changes to pledge training that will ensure
propereducaﬁomuaimng,andﬁaternalbon(ﬁrigdiatwﬂlbmeﬂtdepledges,
ﬁateinity, University, and suirouriding community.

We are aware that history has played a part in inﬂuencing our
pledge activities. We want to make sure that future pledges will
not need to experience inappropriate rituals that have been passed
down through the ages.

We look forward to the IFC’s response to these irnproprieties, and

‘ promise to work with the IFC at improving our recruiting, pledging, and

education protocols. In summation, we want to acknowledge our grati-
tude to Deans Watkins and Leonard as well as Matt Jacobs’ staff for their
support in completing our internal investigation. (

Sincerely,
Jack Norberg, President of Zeta Deuteron House Corporation

BY KATHERINE SHELL
STAFFWRITER

From Tuesday to Thursday
of this week, ninety five

prospectives will travel to

W&L’s campus to compete for
an honor scholarship.

The prospectives are from
thirty different states, and will
compete for W&L’s highest
scholarship, the George Wash-
ington Honor Scholarship. The

tuition for four years. “The com-
petition is designed not only to
select the scholarship recipients,
but also to provide a snapshot
of Washington and Lee life,”
says Kristen Binette Assistant
Director of Admissions and
Scholarship Coordinator.

The seniors in high school
will stay with current Washington
and Lee students and will attend
classes and experience daily life
on campus. Binette said, “We

with a strong understanding of
what makes Washington and
Lee such a unique place.” Ap-
plications to house prospective
horior scholars were distributed
through the Admissions ofﬁce
last week.‘

In order to be selected for
an Honor Scholarship, the pro-
spective must undergo a com-
petition held next week.

Students will be selected
by a group of admissions staff,

selected, will be expected to
maintain a GPA of 3.0 over the
next four years.

Activities for . the
prospectives next week include
tours, meals with current stu-
dents and faculty, interviews,
and meetings with faculty and
athletic coordinators. On
Wednesday night, Mike
Supor, a magician and illusion-
ist, will perform in the Com-
mons Theater at 9:00. Refresh-

Honor Scholarship pays for all

hope they will leave Lexington

faculty, and students, and, if merits willfollow.

Truck driver implicated in Owings’
death receives 30 days in jail, fine

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

A judge has handed down sentencing in the trial of the
driver of the rig that killed Cullem Owings last year’s car crash.
The driver, Steven Mark Rodger, was declared guilty of reck-
less driving and received a sentence of 120 days in jail, a
$1500 ﬁne and he lost his driver’s license for a year. All but 30
days of the jail sentence was suspended, Rodgers began serv-
ing his sentence last Monday. _

Following their son’s tragic death, Steve and Susan
Owings founded Concerned Americans Advocating Interstate
Roadway Safety. C.A.A.I.R.S.’s website, www.caairs.org, the
organization exists to, “educate the general public regarding
the unnecessary and unacceptable dangers that exist on the
vast majority of U.S. highways where “big rigs” are

concerned...the effective steps other civilized countries have
taken to protect their citizens from these threats.”

C.A.A.I.R.S. proposes that all “big rigs” have electronic
governors that limit their speed to 56 miles per hour,that truck
drivers should be paid wages so that there are no incentives
to drive longer, faster and more recklessly. C.A.A.I.R.S. pro-
poses that the,federal government regulate the trucking in-
dustry, as it is inter—state, and therefore within federal juris-
diction.

Washington and Lee friends of Owings are memorializing
Owings through the Cullem Owings ’03 Fellowship. The Fel-
lowship will be awarded to juniors who are good scholars, are
articulate, “with some grace and poise in demeanor while at
the same time being sensitive to the values and opinions of
others.” Recipients of the Fellowship are expected to go off-
campus to discuss the University from a student’s point of
view.

Anti—Ignorance campaign planned to hit campus in April

BY KATIE HENDERSON
STAFF WRITER

V Students on campus are fighting igno-
rance.

Another event that is in the works is an event
called Mix ‘Em Up Dinner. The idea is that when
everyone goes into the dining hall for dinner they will
pick a number out of a hat and sit at the correspond-
ing numbered table instead of sitting with their friends.

“The idea is to encourage people to step out
of their comfort zone,” said Harmon. ‘

“When people get out of their own bubble it is
amazing to realize that you might have things in common
with people you have never talked to before,” she said.

According to Harmon, there is a misconcep-
tion that Washington and Lee is not a diverse cam-
pus. '

“We are diverse in so many ways; the way we
look, act, think, and the activities in which we are

Junior Kaela Harmon began thinking about

involved,” she said.

starting the Anti—Ignorance Campaign when a stu-
dent wore a swastika armband to a costume party
in February.

“The swastika thing made me realize that
people don’t know or pretend that they do not
know that [an emblem like that would] offend some
people,” Kaela Harmon said of the catalyst of the
Campaign.

The goal of the Anti-Ignorance Campaign is to
provide students with information about diversity
on campus.

Pamphlets are circulating, which show facts
and figures including campus organizations
based on diversity, examples of hate on cam-
pus, and percentages of minority groups. The
ﬁgures describe Washington and Lee diversity in
concrete terms. ’

“Our ultimate goal is to create a dialogue,”
Harmon said.

The campaign will kick off on April 19 and will
last for a month. Various groups on campus are spon-
soring events such as the Judy Shepard lecture and

The number of women on campus exceeds
1,000 for the first time

Students hail from 48 states and the Distrct
of Columbia"

Virginia is the most largely represented
state, with 363 students. Maryland follows
with 155 students, Texas with 144 students.

North Dakoa and Montana are the only
states with no representation

Students live in 38 other countries, with
citizenships in 50 different countries

Diversity on Washington and Lee ’s Campus: Facts and Figures

At least 13 students with an alternative
sexual orientation

campus

25%,of students identify themselves as
Catholic, 18% as Episcopalian and 37% as
Christian of another denornination...3% as
Jewish and at least 5 students are Muslim
Bulgaria is the best—represented country,
with 10 students

There are 89 Asian/Paciﬁc Islanders on

There are 117 black students on campus
There are 25 Hispanic students on campus

There are 4 Native Americans on campus

“People try not to be diverse and they also
think that diversity is a bad word,” she said.

As a result, this is what the campaign
hopes to change. And therefore, the Anti-
Ignorance Campaign is trying to get every-

' one on campus involved, even fraternities and
sororities. The campaign, according to Harmon,
is open to the entire campus.

“As W&L is trying to increase diversity, it is
important that we become a more educated cam-
pus,” said Hillel Vice President and Chair of Shabbat
Leah Greenberg of the educational component of
Harmon’s program.

“When we open the doors of communica-
tion so much can happen,” said Harmon hope-
fully. _

Everyone is welcome to the Anti—Igno—
rance Campaign’s next organizational meet-
ing on Thursday at 6 p.m. in the University
Commons.

Harmon’s committee already includes students
from many other student organizations. For more

the Gospel Fest that coincide with the campaign.

Infographic by ERIN ]U1IUs/ TbeRzng-tum Phi

information, contact Kaela Harmon.

   

Leadership conference slated for March 27

Washington and Lee University’s Office of Leadership De-
velopment will host its inaugural spring conference on Saturday,
March 27. This Conference will provide a vibrant vision of lead-
ership through its keynote speaker, Herb Rubenstein, an orienta-
tion and transition for newly elected organization ofﬁcers, and
leadership skills and capabilities for individuals with a wide range
of responsibilities on campus.

Herb Rubenstein is an attorney and President/Founder of
Growth Strategies, Inc., a leadership and management consulting
firm. He is co-author of Breakthrough, Inc. High Growth Strate-
gies for Entreprenurial Organizations. He also serves as an Ad-
junct Professor of Entrepreneurism at George Mason University,
is a founding director of the Association of Professional Futur-
ists, and is the author of numerous articles on futures studies,
leadership and strategic planning. He is President-elect of the
International Leadership Association. He has his law degree from
Georetown University, his Master of Public Affairs from the LBJ
School of Public Affairs, a graduate degree in sociology from the
University of Bristol in Bristol, England and was a Phi Beta Kappa,/
Omicron Delta Kappa graduate from Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in 1974. He will speak on “Being a Leader of Leaders” at l 1
a.m. in Lee Chapel.

Following the keynote address, conferees will attend a vari-
ety of breakout sessions beginning at noon in the Elrod Com-
mons. Topics for these sessions are: Stress Management, Carn-
pus Services and Facilities, Executive Committee Regulations and
Policies, Business Office Orientation, Groups and Goal Setting,
Effective Risk Management, Self Awareness and the Personality
Compass, Ethics-A Constraint or Enabler, Listening and Leader-
ship, The Community as a Resource. Each session will last for 50-
55 minutes.

Lunch will be provided for all participants in the Marketplace
at 1 p.m. There will be a brief closing at 4 p.m. in the Commons
Theater. A $10 fee will cover the cost of all handouts, lunch and a
conference gift. Brochures and registration forms are available in
the Leyburn Libraryy and Elrod Commons and from the Leader-
ship Development Ofﬁce, Room 343, Elrod Commons. The public
is welcome to attend the Lee Chapel keynote free of charge.

Celebrated author reads on campus

Ann Pancake, recipient of the 2003 Whiting Writers’ Award
and the 2003 Glasgow Prize, will read from her collection of short
stories, Given Ground, on Tuesday, March 16, at 4:30 p.m. in room
345 of W&L’s John Elrod Commons.

The reading, which is sponsored by the Glasgow Endow-
ment and Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee University Re-
view, is open to the public free of charge.

Since its publication in 2001, Pancake’s Given Ground has
been heralded as a richly complex exploration of cultural change
and class conﬂict in the communities of rural West Virginia.

Television journalist keynotes Ethics Institute

Lowell Bergman, a television journalist whose high proﬁle

break with CBS’ “60 Minutes” was the subject of the ﬁlm, “The I

Insider,” will present the keynote speech at Washington and Lee
University’s 37th Institute on the Ethics of Journalism on Friday
and Saturday, March 26-27.

Bergman, a founder of the Center for Investigative Reporting
and a frequent New York Times contributor, will speak on “The
End of News” at 5 :30 p.m. on Friday, March 26, in the theater of the
John W. Elrod University Commons. The speech is open to the
public without charge.

His talk will detail the uncertain future of news in the increas-
ingly commercialized setting created by market driven prograrn—
ming decisions and entertainment goals. '

Bergman also will be a panelist at the Institute’s case study
seminar on ethical choices in newsrooms beginning at 2:30 p.m.
Friday and continuing Saturday morning. The seminar with W&L
students will include 10 other journalists and academics from Wash-
ington, D.C., and states including New York, Kentucky and West
Virginia.

A simultaneous session Friday will feature a screening of the
new documentary, “Nuclear Proliferation and Pakistan,” by Sharon
Tiller, senior producer and designer of PBS’ Frontline/World pro-
gram. That session, which is open to the public without charge, is
at 2:30 p.m. in Room 345 of the Commons.

TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2004

Hidden Hero Sarah Yakots ensured
financial success of Fancy Dress Ball

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF WRITER

When Sarah Yakots ’04
attended this year’s Fancy
Dress Ball, she looked past
the candy canes and lolli-
pops to the hard work and
success that lay behind
them. Yakots served as
auditor for FD 2004. Un-
der her management, the
event not only met its
budget goals, but posted a
$2,000 surplus-theresult
of months of effort.

' “I enjoyed every
minute of it because I
think it turned out wond'er-
ful,” Yakots said.

Students started an-
ticipating the ball in the
weeks leading up to it, but
Yakots began preparing at
the beginning of the
school year. She and other
officers began selecting
steering committee mem-
bers during fall term.

It also fell on Yakots to
keep track of each commit-
tee member’s hours. Mem-
bers must work 30 hours to
receive a free memorabilia
package for this year’s Willy
Wonka-themed event.

Yakots’ major responsi-
bility was setting the bud-
get for all aspects of Fancy
Dress. Once that had been
fixed, she decided on peri-
odic revisions while keep-
ing a tight rein on invoices

and purchases.

For Yakots," the task
was difficult because the
ball doesn’t receive a spe-
cific amount of money from
the Executive Committee.
The university directly
funds the ball, and the
steering committee “is ex-
pected to pay them back
with memorabilia sales.” If
the committee spends more
money than they raise, the
next year’s committee must
take up the slack.

Most of Yakots’ time
was‘ spent in the week
leading up to the ball it-
self. The senior worked
long hours on Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday, and Sat-
urday to make sure the
gym was ready for Satur-
day night. Butonce the
crowds began streaming into
the Warner Center, she knew
that the result had made ef-
fort worthwhile.

Yakots said, “I have not
seen the big gym look so

_ good in the four years that

I’ve been here, and I’ve
been on the committee for
three of those four years.”

The decorations pale
in comparison with good
financial planning. At the
end of the day, the steer-
ing committee topped its
$48,000 expenditure with
$50,000 worth of T—shirts,
tickets, and shotglasses
with clever slogans.

PHOTO oouarrsr SARAH YAKOTS
THINK FD. Without her efforts, Fancy Dress would have ﬂopped.

The senior is also a mem-
ber of the Student Recruit-
ment Committee, Omicron
Delta Kappa, and Kappa
Alpha Theta.

Yakots doesn’tjust ex-
ercise her budgetary skills
for Fancy Dress—she’s
also the treasurer for
Nabors Service League.

Research Conference planned for fall

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

That pesky term paper you’ll be desperately finishing up two __

weeks from now might just turn into your hit presentation next
fall. Perhaps the thought hasn’t occurred to ‘most Washington
and Lee students, but now that possibility exists.

This fall, Washington and Lee will be hosting an undergradu-
ate research conference called “Science, Society, and the Arts,”
where students will present original research to an audience of
peers and faculty.

The conference will be held on Saturday, Nov. 13 on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus. Serving as guest speaker will be MIT
professor Alan Lightman, the best-selling author of Einsteins
Dreams.

It is being organized‘ by a group of W&L professors and stu-
dents, including Chair Robin LeBlanc of the Politics department,
Michael Anderson of the Economics department, Sascha Goluboff
of the Sociology and Anthropologyldepartment, Helen I’Anson of
the Biology department, as well Adrienne Norwood, Anne Rochfort,
and Alex Schaerrer, all class of 2005.

Research is being sought from students in all majors, so for
example, Goluboff represents not just the Sociology and Anthro-
pology department, but also the other departments in Newcomb
Hall: History, Philosophy, and-Religion.

The idea behind the conference, according to Professor
Goluboff, is to “get students interested in sharing their intellec-
tual work with other students. We want to help them get over
what we perceive as a fear of presenting intellectual work in pub-
lic.” A -

She adds that students are already good at expressing their
opinions, so adding a research component is a value-added ben-
eﬁt.

Goluboff emphasizes that students will mostly be presenting

work they have already done for class, so the amount of extra effort
required will not be a hurdle for students.

Another benefit that Goluboff sees is the greater integra-
tion of classroom instruction and less formal learning experi-
ences.

Schaerrer, representing students on the committee, is enthu-
siastic for the conference’s potential.

She said, “I think that this conference will be a great intro-
duction to and preparation for graduate presentations and thesis
presentations, as well as the spring conference being jointly
hosted by VMI and W&L.

According to a press release by the organizing committee,
students may present in a variety of ways, including traditional
oral presentations, posters, or creative work, such as multimedia
presentations.

_ In addition, there will also be a colloquium organized around se-
lected readings, in which both students and faculty will participate.

The conference organizers’ goal is to get around 100 stu-
dents involved in total. This will not only help to make this con-
ference a success, but will also serve as valuable feedback for the
spring 2005 conference that will be jointly hosted by VMI and
Washington and Lee, the National Conference on Undergraduate
Research.

Organizers and students alike will get a better feel for how to run
the conference smoothly and ensure participant satisfaction in order
to make the spring conference a success.

Funding for the conference is coming from the Williams
School, the Provost’s Office, the Dean of the College, and Phi Eta
Sigma.

The deadline for submitting colloquium reading proposals is
Friday, May 7, and panel presentation proposals are due Friday,
Sept. 25.

Interested students should contact Professor Robin LeBlanc
at leblancr@wlu.edu or x8612.

Don’t drink and ‘drive...
Call Traveller
540-458-8900

- Celebrate Spring Time
Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day
Brides ~ Graduation
Witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540) 264-0063
Gift Certificates, Packages
Speaking Engagements
Certified through VA Board of Nursing
13Years Experience

FORALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING NEEDS:

University
Cleaners

 

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

Happy St. Patrick's Day!

Remember to wear something green...
Drink something green while you’re at it.

ALL AUTO SERVICES
Brakes - Exhaust — Tune—up
A/C Services — Oil Change -

Engine & Transmission

Replacement/Rebuild
General Service & Repair
Car Wash In/Out & Detailing
U-Haul Truck & Trailer
Rentals

 

  Blue Ridge Auto Center

1973 Magnolia Ave.
Buena Vista, VA 24416
(540) 261-9377

DISCOUNT! !

federated
OPEN

Mon-Fri. 8 — 5pm
Sat. 8 ——N0on

 

.‘.

V

4‘

\_“

 

_,A

 

TUESDAY, MARCH 15,2004

 ’ ‘R1N<;+'1ttAiI’iii
AFF EDITORIAL
S.A.B. needs to get on the ball

The Students Activity Board
needs to do something, anything.
With only a few viable weeks left in
the school year, it’s about time to
bring some activity to campus.

What did the Executive Cornmit-
tee fund? An organization whose job it
is to hold money? The SAB is not a
bank. Spend it already.

Officers, where is your budget
going? At least the one thing the Stu-
dent Body can be grateful for is the
lack of bands from the “jam” genre.
It is a welcome break to not see the
overabundance of posters advertis-
ing noodle-dance-worthy music.

We would like to hear something,
though. Just bring some music to carn-
pus. Students want activity.

Contrary to popular belief, the Stu-
dent Activities Board did not contribute
supportto Mock Convention. The orga-
nization did, however, bring Karl Denson’s
Tiny Universe to campus this year. Yet is
that all we have to show for an entire
year’s worth of funding?

One band and a few miscellaneous
magicians and hypnotists are hardly wor-
thy of multiple tens of thousands in Ex-
ecutive Committee dollars.

The moral of the story is that the
Executive Committee must take a more
active role in making sure that organiza-
tions spend money more wisely. Over-
sight will be the crucial factor in deter-
mining whether or not the SAB will de-
liver a repeat performance next year. EC
oﬂicers, please watch our cash carefully.

We have faith that next year’s
committee will work hard on that
front.

 
  

“What we’re simply asking for is that
smoking be treated by Hollywood as
seriously as it treats offensive language.”

— Dr. Stanton Glantz of the University of
California at San Francisco, who thinks
smoking in a movie should merit an ‘R’ rating.

te of the Week

 

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Wass

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderrnan
Cody Gabbard
John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Stuart Presnell
Rob Rain

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Distribution Dir

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Rirtg—n0n Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observw current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

THE RING-TUMPHI   “

  

CAiErANuarsoN
OPINIONSEDIIOR

mn m

PINIONS  

PAGE 3

Abstinence—only sex ed dangerous, unrealistic

 

STDS ARE MESSY ENOUGH. It’s doubtfulwhetherthejuniorhighschoolstuderrtswho createdthisposterwillaauallybe abstinent, andwhentheyhave sex,theywon’tbeprepared.

Let’s be honest with ourselves, shall we? There are teens out there
who, no matter what we tell them, are going to have sex. It’s a fact.
We’re college students, aren’t we? We were there not too long ago,
and we know what it’s like. Those of us who went to public schools
also know what “standardized” sex education is like, with its references
to diseases, anatomy, and above all its focus on prevention and protec-
tion. Abstinence is certainly a part of this standard sex ed. With all the
forms of birth control and prevention, students are already taught in
these programs that nothing but abstinence guarantees safety from
disease and unwanted pregnancy.

Yet, despite the fact that the Victorian Era ended more than a hun-
dred years ago, there are those who argue that references to anything
but abstinence in sex education are either immoral or harmful to the

adolescents who hear ‘it’. ‘They believe that telling students “just say‘

no” is the best way to stop the spread of STDs and to keep the adoles-
cents in question from having unwanted babies. These individuals,
who are frequently members of highly conservative Christian groups,
think that educating teens in the “practical” aspects
of sex only leads to an enablement of what they con-
sider to be immoral behavior.

Whether or not premarital sex is immoral is some-
thing I won’t discuss on a college campus, but please
understand this- no one is arguing for the removal of abstinence from
current sex ed programs. Nor is anyone trying to say that abstinence
isn’t, in fact, the best way to halt STDs and prevent pregnancies. All I
wish to get across here is that programs that talk about abstinence, and
only abstinence, are put forth despite an overwhelming amount of evi-
dence.

The Center for Disease Control, the National STD Prevention Con-
ference, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Develop-
ment, as well as an overwhelming majority of the world’s health profes-
sionals all agree- abstinence-only programs are more than likely worse
for teens than standardized sex education, and are certainly no better.

Let’s take the most recent study, shall we? A joint Columbia-Yale
study looked at over 12,000 adolescents aged 12-18 divided into two
groups. One group took an abstinent sex education course, and all of
them pledged at the end not to engage in premarital sex. The other
group received the standard sex education course and made no such
pledge.

The results? STD and unwanted pregnancy rates for each group
were about the same, with the students who pledged abstinence having
a statistically insignificant increase in STD rates and pregnancies over
the non-pledgers. The more disturbing statistic is that 59 percent of
males who did not pledge abstinence used a condom during sex; only

PHOTO oouruasr or ' timol9on.oom

40 percent of male pledgers used a condom. On the female side, STD
testing was used as the standard, and there 28 percent of female non-
pledgers were tested for STDS in the previous year, compared to 14
percent of female pledgers. The only category in which the pledgers
could be construed as being “better” is in the incidences of actual
premarital sex. 99 percent of non-pledgers engaged in premarital sex,
whereas 88 percent of those who pledged not to engage in such sex,
did.

What does the creator of this unbiased, scientific study have to
say about his data? “It’s difficult to simultaneously prepare for sex
and say you’re not going to have sex. The message is really simple:
‘Just say no’ may work in the short term but doesn’t work in the long
term.” This from Peter Bearman, the Sociology chair of Columbia Uni-
versity, who conducted the study along with Hannah Bruckner, from
Yale.

And what do I draw as the main point from this study, besides the
fact that teens who promise to abstain are mostly liars? Abstinence-
only educations actually persuaded only 12 percent of those
who pledged not to engage in premarital sex to, in fact, not
engage in premarital sex. The other 88 percent were aban-
doned without an education in prevention, sexual health,
birth control, .and the facts of life in general. Is this the
way we want to conduct sex education in this country? I hope not.

Even President Bush, one of the more conservative Republican Presi-
dents of the last 100 years, agrees. During his most recent State of the
Union address, he outlined his plan to halt the, rampant spread of STDs
in Africa. His plan is based on a successful Ugandan program that
emphasizes marital fidelity, disease education, and use of condoms,
ALONG WITH abstinence theory. Whatever they may say about do-
mestic sex ed, the fact is that the Bush administration, when it wants
practical results related to STD prevention, relies on a synthesis of
abstinence and technical education. And who’s to blame the President
for that?

So let’s get real- why would anyone support abstinence—only edu-
cation? Beats me. Adherence to an antiquated morality, perhaps, or
maybe a desperate clinging to attitudes about sex that prevailed in the
1800s. Either way, the blind “just say no” strategy is foolish. It ignores
certain realities, namely, that teens are going to have sex. You don’t
need a Ph.D in medicine to tell you that. The best program for America’s
teens is to tell them why abstinence is their best course, but then to also
let them know about their options should they choose to engage in
premarital sex.

Knowledge is power. Sticking your head in the sand and hoping for
the best is not the way to knowledge.

Negative ads typical of Republican pols

I watched some advertisements on the
Bush—Cheney reelection site today. President
Bush peered out from the Windows Media
Player box and told me that “Now we face a
choice. We can go forward with confidence
and resolve and hope...we can continue to
work to create jobs, reform education, and

lower the cost of health care.” —~—~——~A—.—~»~—
If President Bush has been OUTINLEFTFIELD
.§ABECHAPMAN,‘96_

working to create jobs, he
doesn’t have much to show for
it. The last three White House
job projections were embarrassed by the
harsh reality. People have been dropping out
of the labor force, as average unemployment
time has ballooned to 15 or 20 weeks. The
result is that the Labor Force Participation
Rate has decreased; that is, people have al-
together stopped looking for jobs since the
job market is so tough. Since the unemploy-
ment rate only counts people actively look-
ing forjobs, it has hovered in the mid 5 per-
cent range. If we include the people who have
dropped out of the labor force in just the last
2 years, however, the unemployment rate
would jump to 7.4 percent. Every few months

ter new fields.

school. Well,

the White House produces another rosy job
projection, saying that its tax—cuts will only
take some time to produce job growth. Well,
they’ve said it before, and they’re saying it
again. And it isn’t true. The President of
Goldman Sachs has said that none of their
current models predict what is happening
now: a jobless recovery.
George W. Bush has old so-
lutions for new problems.
John Kerry is ready to think
on his feet. Like extending
support for workers so that their families
do not lose health insurance from their
smaller—business employees, or while
they’re between jobs. John Kerry wants to
increase the funding to train workers to en-

While the advertisement is claiming that
one of Bush’s messages is to “reform edu-
cation,” children on-screen are shown frol-
icking briefly in front of a nice suburban
since Bush massively

‘underfunded his own education program, I
think that his reputation as the “Education
President” will ring hollow.

Lower the cost of health care, eh?
Surely Bush did not mean to lower the cost
for the taxpayer, because the bill he signed
into law this year was not much more than
a windfall for health—insurance and phar-
maceutical companies, companies which
were quite profitable before the Republicans
decided to give them 600 billion dollars or
more of our money over the next ten years.

Let me remind President Bush that you
don’t shrink government unless you shrink
spending. You and the Republican leader-
ship have managed to shrink government
revenue, but you’ve gone nuts with deficit
spending. I am infinitely pleased that mod-
erate and conservative Republicans alike
defected from the Congressional party lead-
ership on late Friday night by approving a
budget that would take greater pains to
bring the deficit under control, while mak-
ing it harder for Bush to make his tax cuts
permanent. Perhaps the more sensible Re-
publicans will permit Bush to cut taxes
again only after he shows that he can cre-
ate a balanced budget. Four years later,
we’re still waiting.

 

  

PAGE 4

’nrl<ix-;::.a.tl>ra;

  

TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2004

Bush’s newest immigration policy less than enlightened

PHOTO CDURTEY or viamtefoxmgnix

PART OF THE PROBLEM? President George W. Bush, whose immigration policies might be false compassion is seen here with Vincente Fox, who presides over Mexico, which sends more immigrants to the U.S. than any other country..

How could I have been so blinded? In
January, I wrote a piece praising Bush’s new
immigration policies, believing they were
truly beneficial to immigrants, but they are
not. I initially applauded these changes, but
now the more I think about his policies, the
more I believe them to be nothing more than
a half—assed attempt at appearing compas-
sionate (please excuse my language but cor-
diality would not get my point
across as well).

Bush would have it appear as
though his policies would make
it easier for illegal immigrants to
live in this country because he is allowing
them to come forward and unveil themselves
without incurring any penalties. But it’s all
political rhetoric that merely aims to appeal
to the immigrant population, especially the
Hispanics, without offending his conserva-
tive constituents. Bush’s immigration policy
is deceitful, cruel, and unfair to the immigrants
whom he claims to help.

The policyallows illegal immigrants to re-
ceive a temporary legal status after which pe-
riod they can try to stay in the United States
permanently, but that will be discouraged. In-

 

stead, immigrants will receive financial incen-
tives to return home or else they will have to
compete with outside immigrants for a limited
number of immigration slots.

In essence, the U.S. would allow immi-
grants to come here, remain here to work for a
period of time, and then strongly encourage
them to leave and return home. Where is the
sense in that logic? If these immigrants had

the same opportunities that

are available in the U.S. in

their native countries, they

would not have come here
I in the first place. The ma-
jority of the immigrants come to America to
escape poverty, political instability, and other
problems in their country, so why would they
want to go back? To ask them to kindly leave
America’s premises would mean that we were
merely using them for their hard and cheap
labor until their services were no longer re-
quired. That is as unkind as bringing a little
boy into a candy store and saying that he
cannot eat any of the candy——he can only
look. Likewise, Bush’s policies would let an
immigrant see all of the sweet treasures that
America has to offer but not give him the

chance to enjoy any of them. Not only would
the adult not have the chance to enjoy these
fruits, but neither would his children or the
younger members of his family. To want some-
thing that you see everyday but never have
the ability to attain it is possibly one of the
most debilitating forms of deprivation.

Not only does Bush’s policy cruelly tease
immigrants with things they can never have,
it also removes their only form of advantage
in this country: anonymity. Being recognized
by the American government seems wonder-
ful on the surface, but in reality, it completely
destroys an immigrant’s only chance to actu-
ally survive here. Once an immigrant is iden-
tified by the American government, he will be
on the tax roll and he will be tracked by immi-
gration officials, whereas before he could
make money without being taxed and stay
in this country as long as possible. It seems
unfair to allow these immigrants to make
money without paying taxes, but let’s not for-
get the wages that they are earning. These
are not $40K—a—year salaries. They are work-
ing for the lowest of the low wages and are
able to somehow get by with so many finan-
cial restrictions, but if they were forced to pay

taxes, would they still be able to subsist? And
how would they benefit from the taxes that they
would be forced to pay? Will they get their
share of the Social Security benefits? No, be-
cause they will not be living here long enough
to receive what they put into the American
economy.

Americans cannot support such measures
and must push for more tolerant policies if they
are true Americans. America is composed of
people from all over the world and was founded
by immigrants so immigration is the founda-
tion of its existence. Just because we have
made it as a thriving society doesn’t mean that
we do not require the assistance of others. To
believe that we are completely independent is
a dangerously stupid notion that will only
alienate us from valuable resources found in
people from other countries.

“As a nation that values immigration and
depends on immigration, we should have im-
migration laws that work and make us proud,”
Bush said. But I don’t feel so proud as an
American. The policies are a great example of
good political rhetoric, but we need to do much
more before we can have an immigration policy
that we can be proud of.

Write opinions for the Phi.’ ,

The Ring-tum Phi is currently seeking to hire new opinions writers! If you’re interested in applying for
an Op/Ed position, please e—mail phi@wlu.edu, or e—mail the Opinions Editor at andersonc@wlu.edu.

 Student Discounts

 

Project Ilnriznn

Emergency Hotline

I 54Q—463—2594

AVEWIIIIII 24 lIlIlll‘8 II day. 7 days 3 WIIIIK.

Every day, people have
birthdays. On March 17,
Brett Kirwan is one of them.

Congratulations, Brett.

  
  

(3 ma. twee»:-;:£ Rm»: L

$"’::.m:e3:’Ai  M

 

l'_eXJ'ngtor1, VA 24450

540-461-3447

 

309 N.  St.

 

 

  

JOHNHYlAl\D
A$IlANl‘SPOR"lSEDIl0R
mm m

TUESDAY, MARCH 15,2004

'lllE Rlxls-rpl»lPl-ll

 

PORTS

PAGE 5

Womens’ lacrosse picks up two wins during past week

Generals defeat Sweet
Briar, Franklin & Marshall

Senior captain wants
to stick with lacrosse
for the rest of her life

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRITER

Many athletes spend only a short period of

— _' their lives playing sports, often competing only

throughout high school or college. But some de-
cide they want to be involved with their sport for-
ever. .

Senior lacrosse captain Kelly Taffe has already
made the latter decision. “I knew I wanted to pur-
sue [lacrosse] as soon as I picked up a stick,” she
said. “I love lacrosse and want to spend the rest of
my life either playing or coaching it.”

Since Taffe’s father is W&L’s Director of Spe-
cial Events, she’s been familiar with the school for
a long time. It was actually the school’s lacrosse
camp that became Taffe’s deciding factor for at-
tending W&L. Coaches Jan Hathom and Laurie
Stagnitta saw her talent then and convinced her to
come here.

Taffe, who has been playing lacrosse since the
6th grade, simply cannot get enough of the sport.
She spent her sophomore summer playing lacrosse
in Adelaide, Australia for the Sturt Lacrosse Club.

This summer, Taffe will coach lacrosse and ﬁeld
hockey camps at UVA. In August, she leaves for
London to play and coach lacrosse for a year. When

she returns to the U.S., she plans on coaching on"

becoming an athletic director someday.

But for now, Taffe is focused on helping the
lacrosse team in her last season at W&L. She fore-
sees success on the ﬁeld and says she “can’t im-
aging anything but
spectacular things hap-
pening.”

Taffe, whose point and
goal totals last season

I love lacrosse and
want to spend the
rest of my life

either  or were the second-high-
, , ” est season totals in
C0aCh1I1g 1t- school history, was also
KELLYTAFFE the captain of the

General’s ﬁeld hockey
team. She ﬁnished holding the school’s records
for career goals ( 15) and points (34), as well as earn-
ing All—ODAC, All-State And All-Region honors.

However, Taffe says that managing two sports
hasn’t always been easy. “Athletes make a lot of
sacriﬁces at this school, and it is really hard to keep
up with everything,” she said.

It’s the quality time spent her teammates and
co-captains that Taffe believes makes it all worth it
in the end—that and her two ODAC titles and bids
to the NCAA.

And just two days ago, Taffe recorded three
more goals for the Generals during their win against

' ' » Franklin & Marshall. But at the end of the day,

Taffe recognizes her teammates for her achieve-
ments in W&L lacrosse.

“Any accomplishment I’ve made has been the
result of a team effort, starting with the coach,”
Taffe said looking back on the past three years.
“No individual can take credit when it’s a team
sport.”

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF \Y/RITER

The hits just keep on corrling. The Generals’
scoring woes continued Saturday as they notched
just three goals in the second half in an attempt to
rebound from allowing 5 unanswered in the first.
The statistics don’t accurately reﬂect the outcome
of the game. As usual, co—captain Senior goalie

DEVOTION. Senior lacrosse captain Kelly Taffe wants to devote her life to playing and
coaching lacrosse. This pas.‘ week, she helped lead the Generals to two wins. The team

defeated Sweet Briar and Franklin 8C Marshall.

COURTESY SPORTS lNFORMA'I'.(ON

BY SARAH BLOOM
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

It was ‘a week of double
sweet success for the W&L
women’s lacrosse team. The Gen-
erals took home victories against
Sweet Briar and Franklin and
Marshall.

The women started off the
week strong when they played
Sweet Briar on Wednesday. Se-
nior Kelly Taffe led the team, scor-
ing four goals and assisting on
two others, to a win 12-2. The
Vixens scored once in the first
half, but the Generals proved the
stronger team, leaving half-time
with a seven point lead.

Also adding to the Gener-
als twelve points were senior
Lee Wheeler, freshman
Mallory Lobisser, and fresh-
man Avery Lovejoy. Senior
Joanna Perini made two saves
at the net.

“We were very confident
going in to the game,” said
Lobisser. Despite a clear win by
the Generals. She said, “I think
they surprised us a bit. Their
defense played well and they
were much improved from last
year.”

The stronger defense was
a good warm-up for the

General’s next game against
Franklin and Marshall on Sat-
urday. \lVlth only 28:01 left in the
game, the General’s found them-
selves trailing the Diplomats 7-
3.

“We were biting our nails
at half-time,” said Lobisser.
“but we never lost confidence
and we knew this was our
game. The juniors and seniors
played them two years ago and
lost so we were there to win
this year.”

Senior Kelly Taffe started the
Generals on their comeback when
she scored off of an assist by
sophomore Amanda Strickler.
Strickler and Taffe led the gener-
als in scoring with three goals
each.

Sophomores Rachel Wallick
and Kate Lester each also
scored to position the Generals
only one point behind F&M.
After half-time, Washington and
Lee quickly pulled ahead to a 7-
2 victory with goals by Taffe,
Strickler and junior Erin
Rathbone.

Perini again stood at the net,
this time making 15 saves.

The women next host
Guilford College at 4:00 PM on
Tuesday. The aim to keep the
momentum going for another
win.

Stayin’ on the St. Joseph’s‘bandwagon

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF \X/RITER

Normally at this time of year, we’re talking about
two or three teams that are clearly the top contend-
ers going into the NCAA Tournament. What makes
this particular year so interesting though is the fact
that there are at least eight teams that have a legiti-
mate shot at winning the title. Though it may sur-
prise many after their recent loss at Xavier, I still
feel that St. Joseph ’s has the best shot at winning
the title this year.

The critics have much to say about St. Joe’s;
yes they are in a weak conference, yes they have
only average inside players, and yes they did get
spanked by Xavier in the conference tournament,
but I feel that if anything this loss will help the
Hawks. The loss they suffered revealed weak-
nesses that they need to address namely the inside
game and the need for guards Jamir Nelson and
Delonte West to penetrate. It has become clear
that this team relies almost entirely on the play of
Nelson and West, but jumpshooting doesn ’t win
championships. Learning of their weaknesses be-

Ansel Sanders played well for the Generals, allow-
ing just 5 goals and totaling 10 saves in net. The
defense was strong again, shutting down F & M’s
extra—man unit all four times they took the ﬁeld.
The Generals won the faceoff battle convincingly,
controlling 70% of the draws. They had a sparse 3
minutes of penalties as opposed to F & M’s 9;
unfortunately, the scoring touch, escaped the Gen-
erals until the game was all but decided.

fore the tournament gives them a chance to make
the necessary adjustments. The loss also relieves
them of the pressure of an undefeated season, which
is always underrated by media and fans. When a
team has a run like that going, they can become so
tense that a loss is just what they need to loosen
up and play at an even higher level. The fact that
they are in a weak conference, the Atlantic 10, I feel
is not enough to consider them a fraud. For one,
their conference isn’t even all that weak, Xavier
and Dayton are perennial tournament teams and
Temple and George Washington are both solid
teams. I’m not saying it’s the SEC or ACC but it’s
not like they’ve been playing high school teams all
season and are going to be shocked at the level of
competition in the tourney. As for the other elite
teams, I feel there isn’t another team with as good
ofa claim as St. Joe’s.

Kentucky and Duke are both very safe picks;
and if Kentucky beats Mississippi State for the SEC
championship, they are pretty much a lock for a nurn—
ber one seed. However, Duke suffered a recent loss
to Georgia Tech and Kentucky has not exactly blown
away the competition (except Vanderbilt. . ..but then,

Frustrated by recent inefficiency, the of-
fense began to show signs of life only during
the last stages of the game, finally making good
on the exorbitant number of penalty minutes
they were handed. Junior attackman Gavin
Molinelli tallied the Generals first score in an
extra—man opportunity off a feed from el cuerpo
(the Body for those of you who don’t habla
espaﬁol) with 4:09 left in the third. From there,

who doesn’t beat Vandy lately?). Stanford is over-

rated and plays in a conference that is almost at the
same level as the Atlantic 10. Over the past couple
of years they have shown a tendency to come up
short in the tournament — and this year’s team is in
no way comparable to the 2002 team led by the Collins
twins. Pittsburgh is still a bit of an unknown; how-
ever a victory over UConn would certainly give
them a legitimate claim, but UConn with an injured
Emeka Okafor if at all. Having said that, if Okafor can
play at almost full strength throughout the touma—
ment, UConn is deﬁnitely a contender - but without
their best player (arguably college basketball’s best
player) they don’t have much of a chance. Okla-
homa State wants a number one seed, but they have
been upset by average teams like BYU and Mis-
souri. Oklahoma State will get knocked off in the
tournament and probably will not get the number
one seed, since they still have to get past Texas
again to win the Big 12. Mississippi State is a bit
hard to predict,

ST. JosEl>H’s See page 6

Mens’ lacrosse scoring problems persist, drop one to #15 Franklin & Marshall

the Generals went stagnant again until around
2 minutes to go in the fourth, when Senior
midfielder Dustin Martin hooked up with
Molinelli twice in extra—man opportunities. The
Generals, despite outshooting the Diplomats 30-
29, were slowed by F & M’s junior goalie Mike
Sartorius’ 13 saves.

The Generals return to action at home against
Colorado College on Wednesday at 3:30.

THIS WEEK’s SCHEDULE

Tuesday, March 16 Wednesday, March 17 Thursday, March 18 Friday, March 19 Saturday, March 20 Sunday, March 21
O W Tennis vs. Randolph- O Baseball vs. Roanoke-- O M Tennis at Lynchburg- O Track at VCU Invita- O Baseball vs. Eastern O W Tennis vs.
Macon Women ’s, at 3:00 -3:00 tional--TBA Mennonite (DH )--12:00 Muhlenberg--10:00
Roanoke--4:00 OM Lax vs. Colorado O Baseball at O Golf at Golden Isle OM Lax vs. Mary Wash- O WI.ax vs. Colby (at
OW Lax vs. Guilfor -- College--3:30 Shenandoah--4:00 Invitational--TBA ington--1 :30 University of Richmond)-
4:00 O W Tennis vs. Sweet O M Swim at NCAA’ -- O WLax vs. Mary Wash- -12:30
Briar, at Rand0lph- All Day ington--1 :30 O Golf at Golden Isle
Macon--4:00 - O Track hosts W&L Invitational--TBA
Invitational--9:30 O M Swim at NCAA’s--All
O M Tennis vs. Mary Day
Washington--2:00

O W Tennis vs.
Kalamazoo--9:30; vs.
Agnes Scott--2:30; vs.
Mary Washington--2:30

O Track at VCU Invita-
tional--TBA

O Golf at Golden Isle
Invitational--TBA

O M Swim at NCAA’s--All
Day

 

PAGE 6

OS I-E ING-TUM

STRIDE. Junior Steve Chambers runs in an event during this past weekend
at \W8CL’S Track and Field Invitational.

W&L hosts track
and field invitational

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s track‘ teams kicked off their outdoor seasons by hosting the
2004 W&L Track and Field Invitational on Saturday at Wilson Field.

On the women’s side the Generals finished fourth, while
Susquehanna took top honors with 156 points The Crusaders were
followed by Roanoke (97), Mary Washington (80), W&L (54.5),
Sewanee (49), Bridgewater (43.5), Southern Virginia (3 8), Christopher
Newport (26) and Berea (11). In men’s competition W&L placed sev-
enth, while Susquehanna won the invitational with 165 points. The
Crusaders were followed by DeSales (78), Sewanee (72), Berea (59),

Mary Washington (53), Roanoke (44), W&L (30), Bridgewater (29.5), -

Southern Virginia (19.5), Christopher Newport (6) and William Penn
(1).

The W&L women’s team was led by sophomore Mary Christo-
pher (Fort Lauderdale, Fla./Cardinal Gibbons) and freshman Sara
Behmerwohld (San Juan Capistrano, Calif./Dana Hills). Christopher
won the 800 meter run with a time of 2:26.37, while Behmerwohld won
the 400 meter hurdles with a school record time of 68.65.

Sophomore Betsy Frayer (Grand Rapids, Mich./East Grand Rap-
ids) emerged as a top W&L distance runner with third place in thel500
meter run (5209.76), while’ junior Emily Barker (Clifton, Va./Mount
Vernon) led the throwers with points in three events. Barker took
third in the javeliri (107’5”), third in the shot put (36’5”) and sixth in
the discus (102’3”).

On the men’s side junior Chris Walker (Centreville, Va./Paul IV)
was W&L’s lone event winner, taking top honors in the shot put with
a distance of 43 feet, 10 inches. Junior Nathan Johnson (Lexington,
VaJRockbridge County) placed second in the 1500 meter run (4204.30),
while senior Rusty Meyer (Dallas, Texas/Jesuit College Prep) took
fourth in the 800 meter run with a time of 2:02.76.

Both W&L.squads return to action on Fri., March 19 at the VCU
invitational.

ST. JOSEPH’S From page 5

they’ve played some phenomenal games against good teams and
played close with some poor ones. Like Kentucky, if they win the SEC
they’ll be all but assured a number one seed, but they already lost to
Kentucky earlier in the season and I feel they could do so again.

The possibilities are almost endless, and as a bitter Florida/Michi-
gan fan, I have no feelings toward any particular team that affect my
judgment. J amir Nelson has been called T.J. Ford with a jump Shot,
and T.J. Ford carried his team to the semiﬁnals last year. Give him a
jumper and Delonte West by his side and Texas could have won it all
last year. Furthermore, there is no team with the skills capable of
exploiting this weakness except UConn if Okafor is healthy. There
are no real wrong answers, but I feel that St. J oe’s has the best
chance of all these teams to win it all with spectacular veteran leader-
ship, two great scorers and the pressure of going undefeated lifted
from their backs.

House for Rent
In The Country

4 Bedrooms
2 Baths

Lease goes from June 15, 2004 to
June 15, 2005

1.5 miles on Rt. 60 East

“Jaws”

Daytime Phone: 540463-5383
Nighttime Phone: 540-463-5654

  

 

TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2004

Generals’ baseball remains perfect
in ODAC against Randolph-Macon

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L baseball team re-
bounded from a tough non-con-
ference loss last Wednesday. by
sweeping Randolph-Macon on
Saturday to remain perfect in the
ODAC, improving their record to
10-4, 4-0 ODAC

The Generals faced Pied-
mont College on Wednesday. The
game was scoreless through two
innings when Piedmont was able
to get two runs off Generals
starter Mike Wert in the second.
Piedmont would go on to score
seven runs over the next three
innings to take a 9-0 lead. Wert
surrendered 8 runs over 4 2/3 in-
nings -and suffered the loss to
even his record at 2-2 on the sea-

son. The Generals bats did not
fair any better. Piedmont starter
Austin Denvew allowed only two
hits and zero runs over eight in-
nings. All of the Generals offense
came by way of a two-out, three
run homer by sophomore ﬁrst
baseman Taylor McConnell. But
it was too little, too late and the
Generals ﬁnished on the short
side of a 10-3 score.

W&L resumed their ODAC
schedule on Saturday by host-
ing the Yellow Jackets. The Gen-
erals sent their ace Peter Dean out
to the mound. The senior
lefthander got all of the offense
he would need in a three run sec-
ond inning, capped by senior
shortstop Austin Allain’s two
run double. The Generals scored
insurance runs in the fourth and

fifth innings to round out the
scoring for a 5-1 win. Dean
pitched the complete seven in-
nings, allowing two hits and just
one uneamed run. He improved
his record to a perfect 5-0 on the
year and with the victory tied the
ODAC career wins record.
Sophomore second baseman
Scott Gosselink joined Allain as
the only Generals to have multi-
hit games.

The nightcap proved to be
even easier than the first game
for the Generals. The game was
close after four innings, with
W&L having assumed a 2-0 lead.
The Generals’ bats came alive in
the ﬁfth, however, as they scored
six runs to break open the game.
The inning was led by
McConnell’s RBI double and jun-

Mens’ tennis dominates Salisbury,
Eighth ranked Generals win 6-1, 7-0 to improve record to 9-4

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team dominated
Salisbury and Denison this Sat-
urday at home with a 6-1 win over
Salisbury and a 7-0 win over
Denison. The 8th nationally
ranked Generals improved their
record to 9-4, 4-0 in the ODAC.
Salisbury is now 2-2 overall.
Saturday’s match was the first of
the season for Denison, putting
them at 0-1 overall.

Junior Paul McClure led the

‘Generals in the match against

Salisbury with a 6-2, 6-3 win over
senior Nick Peel in the No. 1
singles match. Peel is ranked 27th
nationally while McClure is
ranked 21st.

Sophomore David Shay de-
feated senior Scott Mayberry 6-
3, 6-2 in the No. 2 spot.

In the No. 3 singles match,
Salisbury senior David

Finlayson had a 6-4, 6-7 (2) (10-8)
win over freshman Jon Malooly.

Senior Graham Nix won his
match against sophomore Tyler
Robinson at No. 4, 6-3, 6-1. In
the No. 5 spot, senior K.C.
Schaefer defeated junior Jaime

sophomore Chris Kimmel also
won their match with an 8-5 vic-
tory over Cook and Engles at N o.
3.

In the match against
Denison, McClure started off in
the No. 1 spot again, shutting

Engles 6-1, 6-2. down his oppo-
SeniorAuStin Kim nent, senior Cory
rounded out the Stewart, 6-0, 6-0.
singles play with a Shay defeated
6-2, 6-1 win over junior Ethan
senior Jacob Cook Branum 6-0, 6-2 in
in the No.6 match. the No. 2 match.
In doubles In the No. 3 Spot,

play, McClure and
sophomore Jor-
dan Eichenberger
teamed up to de-.
feat the 10th na-
tionally ranked
doubles pair of
Peel and
Mayberry 8-5 at No. 1. Kim and
Nix shut down their opponents,
Finlayson and Robinson, 8-0 in
the No. 2 spot. Schaefer and

 

RTS INFORMATION

Nix Shut down
sophomore Eric
Messick, 6-0, 6-0.
Schaefer also
won his match
against sopho-
more Nick
Pellegrin at No. 4,
6—0,6-2.
In the No. 5 and 6 singles
matches, both Kim and sopho-
more Charles Anderson shut

ior leftfielder Chris Chaplin’s
two-run triple. The Generals
scored three more runs in the
seventh inning to take an 11-0
lead.-The Yellow Jackets would
score one meaningless run in the
ninth and the game finished 11-
l . Senior righthander Dan Kagey
started on the mound and pitched
eight shutout innings, improving
his record to 3-0 on the year. Of-
fensively, freshman designated
hitter David Miller went 3 for 5
with two runs scored. Gosselink

and McConnell each went 2 for 4 '

with two runs and two RBIs
apiece, and senior rightﬁelder
Bryan Mulhem ﬁnished 2 for 4
with a run and an RBI. The Gen-
erals continue their ODAC
schedule with a home game
against Roanoke on Wednesday.

Denison

down their opponents, sopho-
mores Noah Arenstein and Chris-
topher Henderson, respectively.

In the doubles matches, Kim
and Nix shut down Stewart and
Branum, 8-0 at No. 1. McClure
and Eichenberger teamed up
again for an 8-3 victory over
Messik and Arenstein at No. 2.
Schaefer and Kimmel also de-
feated their opponents, Pellegrin
and Henderson, 8-1 in the No. 3
spot.

The Generals travel to
Lynchburg on Thursday for a
conference match-up at 3:00 p.m.
The Hornets are currently 1-1 and
ranked second in the ODAC be-
hind the Generals.

Washington and Lee then
hosts the 9th nationally ranked
Mary Washington Eagles on Sat-
urday for a 2:00 p.m. contest. This
match will be an important one
for the Generals after losing to
Mary Washington 1-6 last year.
The Eagles are currently 6-2.

Women’s Lacrosse

1. Washington and Lee (8)
2. Roanoke

3. Randolph-Macon

4. Virginia Wesleyan

5. Lynchburg

6. Sweet Briar

7. Bridgew iter

8. Guilford

9. Hollins

Baseball

1. Virginia Wesleyan (9)
2. Bridgewater (1)

3. Guilford

4. Washington and Lee
5. Lynchburg

6. Hampden-Sydney

7. Eastern Mennonite
8. Emory & Henry

9. Roanoke

10. Randolph-Macon

ODAC announces spring sports preseason polls

Generals picked to win womens’ lacrosse, mens’ and womens’ tennis

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Men’s Tennis

1. Washington and Lee (7)
2. Lynchburg

3. Hampden-Sydney

4. Emory & Henry

5. Virginia Wesleyan

6. Roanoke

7. Eastern Mennonite

8. Bridgewater

9. Randolph-Macon

Golf

1. Guilford (8)

2. Bridgewater

3. Washington and Lee
4. Randolph-Macon

5 . Hampden-Sydney

6. Virginia Wesleyan
7.'Roanoke

8. Lynchburg

9. Emory & Henry

SALEM, Va. — The Old Dominion Athletic Conference armounced its spring sports preseason polls as voted on by the
league’s coaches in each particular sport.

Washington and Lee was chosen to ﬁnish first in women’s lacrosse, men’s tennis and women’s tennis. Additionally, the
Generals’ men’s lacrosse team‘ was picked third, the baseball team was picked fourth, the golf team was picked third, and the womeifs
and men’s track teams were picked fourth and fifth, respectively.

Below are the 2004 ODAC Preseason Spring Sports polls (first place votes in parenthesis):

Women’s Tennis

1. Washington and Lee (11)
2. Hollins

3. Sweet Briar

4. Bridgewater

5. Emory & Henry

6. Randolph-Macon

7. Roanoke

8. Virginia Wesleyan

9. Eastern Mennonite

10. Guilford

1 1 . Lynchburg

12. Randolph-Macon Woman's

Men’s Track

1. Bridgewater (2)

2. Lynchburg (3)

3. Eastern Mennonite
4. Roanoke

5. Washington and Lee

Men’s Lacrosse

1, Lynchburg (4)

2. Hampden-Sydney ( l )
3. Washington and Lee
4. Roanoke (2)

5. Virginia Wesleyan

6. Randolph-Macon

7. Guilford

Women’s Track

1. Roanoke (2)

2. Lynchburg (3)

3. Eastern Mennonite
4. Washington and Lee
5. Bridgewater

    

1~800«648- -38%? I wvm.:?smnrcL(om

Support Generals
Athletics

9

Fraternities -- Sororities

Clubs -- Student Groups
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event.
free programs make fundraising easy with no
risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get
with the program!
CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238, or visit

mmmm 

It works.

Contact

Our

-:E"U

  

L

¥’/ ..

 

PAGE 7

Depression is a rising trend on col-
lege campuses across the nation. Stud-
ies from the American'Mental Health As-
sociation and the National Institute of
Mental Health show that between 10-15%
of all college students are diagnosed with
depression. Depression can be a terrify-
ing battle to fight alone, but there is help
available to W&L students 24 hours a
day.

“Arts LIFE

 Washington and Lee student struggles with depression

Thankfully, Matthew did seek help.
First he turned -to W&L Counseling Ser-
vices. Though he had been seeing a coun-
selor earlier in the year, he realized that
he had not as fully worked through things
as he thought he had. The Health Center
is also “pretty phenomenal,” according
to Matthew. “When I was really at rock
bottom I would go there at odd hours of

the night. I didn’t

Freshman Matthew
Loar hails from Littleton,
Colorado, a town of

MORETHANMAINSTIKEAM
KELLY Jo LARSEN ‘O5

feel safe alone at
night.” Matthew
worked through

“middle class, white col-
lar suburbia,” according
to Loar, but more widely known for its
school shooting in 1999. Matthew came
to W&L after applying early decision, but

the college transition did not go quite as‘

smoothly as he had hoped. In early Feb-
ruary, Matthew was formally diagnosed
with depression.

The depression presented itself in
many ways: Matthew slept over nine
hours a night, but found he couldn’t make
it through a day without a nap. He would
go long periods without eating. “The
stomach says its hungry but trying to eat
is like trying to swallow an orange,
whole,” Matthew recalls. Then there were
the suicidal thoughts. Matthew finally
decided to seek help after a late night trip
to the Cadaver footbridge——a trip he had
no intentions of returning from.

his depression
with the help of
both the Counseling Center and the Stu-
dent Health Center. He is now taking an-
tidepressants, continues to see a coun-
selor, and has started the long battle to a
complete recovery. Now that he has been
emotionally stabilized, “its time to figure
out what caused it [the depression].” The
unpacking process has begun,” Loar
said.

Depression can have many triggers in-
cluding a hereditary predisposition or
major emotional stress. “For me it was an
accumulation of a lot of different
stresses,” Matthew explains. During his
senior year of high school he was exposed
to a lot of death and terminal illnesses.
To complicate matters, during the begin-
ning of Winter Term he also made the de-
cision to depledge from his potential fra-

ternity. “I already was not fully emotion-
ally stable and I couldn’t handle the
stress of pledgeship,” Loar explains.
“Depledging is not an easy decision to
make. Depledging was just the straw that
broke the camel’s back and I don’t blame
the Greek system as a whole.”

In talking openly about his battles
with depression, Matthew hopes to help
others seek help. “If I come out into the
open and I come clean, maybe others will
seek help. The initial ‘acceptance is the
hardest step to make,” Loar explains. “It’s
not normal to be feeling depressed feel-
ings all the time and people need to know
its OK to get help. In talking about it,
maybe other people might stop, take a sec-
ond and check their pulse to see if
they’re really doing OK or if they’re re-
ally holding something back.”

“A lot of people are afraid to go see a
counselor. There are stereotypes about
shrinks and they’re embarrassed, but it’s
amazing what can happen when you open
up to someone,” Matthew says. “Every-
body has a bad day now and then, but if
you start to see a pattern, and you go
weeks, maybe months, without a good day,
don’t keep it to yourself. Depression is a
ravaging beast that will consume your life
if you let it. Don’t be afraid to ask for help.”

Symptoms of depression include: sad-
ness, anxiety, loss of energy, sleep distur-
bances, appetite or weight change, feelings

MEGANMORGAN
ARl‘S8CLIFEEDll"OR
FMAi;MoRcANM1@Wrui~13rJ
TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2004

BYSTEVENMARINOS RING-TUMPI-II
of hopelessness or guilt, thoughts of death
or suicide, difficulty concentrating or mak-
ing decisions, difficulty remembering, ex-
cessive crying or irritability, or chronic
aches or pains (National Institute of Men-
tal Health 2001). If you think you might need
help, please do not hesitate to contact the
Student Health Center at X8401, the Coun-
seling Center at x8590, a dorm counselor or
a peer counselor.

The naked truth: social criticisms and confessions from a nude model

BY COURTNEY E. PERRY ‘O4
STAEFWRIIER

I realize that, in publicizing the fact that I’m a
nude model and writing an opinion column on a
campus such as this, I’m setting myself up for all
sorts of criticisms, objectifying remarks, and vari-
ous other comments, rumors and stories. How-
ever, if I’m comfortable enough with myself and
my body to pose naked in front of a room full of
people, then I can certainly withstand the dissent-
ing opinions of others when I insist on being open
about my own. I charge you to say what you will.
I now bring you
(drumroll please!) The
Naked Truth: Social
Criticisms and Con-
fessions from a Nude
Model.

Without ques-
tion there exist many
stereotypes, customs
and social norms on
our dear W&L cam-
pus. We’ve all read
the numerous articles
which have so expressly articulated what were
generally known stereotypes seemingly ingrained
in the very letters which decorate the houses of
the Greek organizations.

However, this is not meant to be an article
about the “cool kids” and the stereotypes of the
various associations. Rather, I have found that
somehow, some way, the students, specifically
the girls, on campus have been brainwashed.
The result is a shockingly skewed perception of
social status that has left male students in a
‘grossly advantageous position which they still
seem to take for granted. I feel as though the
women on campus have come to view them-
selves, their worth, and their bodily images

“We’ve all read the numerous
articles which have so expressly
articulated What were generally
known stereotypes seemingly
ingrained in the very letters which
decorate the houses‘ of the Greek
organizations.” '

through distorted male eyes. The already dan-
gerous levels of eating disorders present on
campus have no doubt been exacerbated by ig-
norant, pompous frat boys who don’t know the
damaging effects of their own derogatory com-
ments. Furthermore, as the ever-classy Tim
Smith pointed out in his enlightening article sa-
luting the women of Washington & Lee, one of
the best aspects about spring supposedly is
(survey says!) mini—skirts. Now, I’m going to
guess and say that anyone—pledges ex-
cluded—wearing a mini-skirt on campus is not
trying to impress me or any other girl. So, what
is all of this for? Girls
across campus are liter-
ally making themselves
sick in an attempt to
gain the perfect figure,
and then objectifying
themselves by wearing
next to nothing to show
off such unnaturally
obtained illusory
beauty. And for what?
To impress... whom?
Them?! No thank you.

For the guys out there who make such afore-
mentioned derogatory comments, or who expect
girls to dress in mini—skirts for their viewing plea-
sure, or who even expect girls to put out during a
“random hook-up” and excuse you for not doing
so much as saying ‘hi’ on campus per the speak-
ing tradition afterwards (and, of course, not all
W&L guys are such barbarians), I ask you: why
should 1? Or why should any other girl for that
matter. What about my viewing pleasure? I don’t
see an overwhelming amount of guys——-or at least
certainly not as large a percentage as girls—bring—
ing themselves to the brink of death and/or physi-
cal exhaustion in order to obtain such Herculean
ideals of masculine physical perfection and then

walking around with their shirts off in 'order to
please me. Instead, I see an awful lot of “frat”
boys drinking copious amounts of beer in order
to seemingly assert their masculinity upon one
another rather than as an attempt to impress those
belonging to the female sex. Hey, “why have a
six pack when you can have the whole keg?” The
double standard is atrocious, and I, for one, am
not falling for it.

I have one ﬁnal complaint to wage against
the male student populous (or at least those
deemed cooler than me on the social ladder).
Honestly, would it melt you to take a shower be-
fore class? Comb your hair? Cut your hair?
Shave? Anything? Not only is your ﬁlthy, un-
kempt, unhygienic body an immense tum-off, but
frankly, I find it insulting to the integrity of the
highly—ranked and admired professors to say to
them in such a blatant and disrespectful manner
that they are not worth your cleanliness or the
extra time (what? 15 minutes for you boys?) it
takes for you to make yourself presentable in the
morning. How rude. However, having said that,
there will always be the occasional alarm clock
malfunction, late night study session, etc., that
will prevent any student from arriving to class in
the prettiest possible state. These instances
should be limited to just that—occasions.

<Sigh.> Now that I have verbally abused the
male student body, I feel it is highly necessary to
offer an apologetic disclaimer. This article is meant
to attack a general stereotype to which, as with
any stereotype, there are numerous exceptions. I
like to think, anyway, that an institution of higher
learning with a prestigious reputation such as
this one can boast at least a few intelligent men
who know enough to have some decency and
respect and thus not make horrid, offensive and
inappropriate remarks, especially as regards fe-
males, but in all respects as well. In fact, I hope
and urge all you boys out there to prove me

wrong and show that such pigs are in fact in the
minority! And I know there are boys out there
who do in fact shower and shave daily <gasp!>.
Also the superficial obsession with physical ap-
pearance is not merely an unfair judgment placed
upon females, but, of course, males as well. There
are plenty of Casanovas out there who may not
be the hottest ﬂames ever to light the fire of a
young fair maiden’s heart, but who, nonetheless,
possess infinite number of redeeming character-
istic qualities—sense of humor, chivalry, intelli-
gence, eloquence, affability, etc. (in case you
wanted a few hints as to what you should work
on). And these are just a few examples of the
vast number of stereotype exceptions.

So, back to the task at hand: girls, stand up
for yourselves! Know who you are and that
you do not have to settle for some rude, over-
weight, unattractive, unclean, underachiever any
longer! No matter what fraternity or other cam-
pus organization he may be involved in or what
his social status on this campus may be (trust
me, such “cool kids” may not be so highly ad-
mired once they get out into the “real” world).
Marilyn Monroe, one of the most gorgeous
women in American history was a size 12. Guys,
take a look at the world around you and appreci-
ate life’s small favors (even if they are just mini-
skirts-—thanks Tim Smith) and know that these
privileges are just those—favors, not entitle-
ments. Ideals of physical appearance, for both
men and women, are subject to trends, cultures,
fashions and seasons and are thus, ﬂeeting. And
if you do choose to “beautify” yourself, make
sure your goal is an equal and worthy cause.

To everyone, I say, cast off the stigma of
your Greek affiliation, and shed your expensive
designer (yet, in some cases, less covering)
clothes and take a good long look at yourselves.
Are you satisfied with what’s left underneath?
In short, everyone should be a nude model.

terraced landscaping.

Asking $229,000.

(540) 464-3738
or
(540) 460-47 1 8

704 N. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON, VA

Built circa 1880 an Institute Hill, now completely restored with
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors.

4 Bedrooms, 1 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new
kitchen plus a large utility/oﬂice Room. Large third ﬂoor
storage room and an attached outside storage area.
Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls an

Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping.
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly.

Tom James Company
Interviews?

lntemship?
Special occasion?

your best!!

and Sports Coats

Student Packages &

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or
with questions

540-8154557

Let us help you look and feel

Custom and Ready Made Suits

Shirts, pants, shoes and" all accessories

Gi t Certi icates Available

Adam.Williams@tomjamesretail.com .

Send your engagement announcements to
phi@wlu.edu

3/98]

I

pa Lexington

F

Q,3§’\ EYEWEAR rs VISION ‘%.%9&/‘
EYEWEAREIS STYLE 4/‘

THE BEST OF BOTH IS AVAILABLE

The NewaOpticians

Boutique
203 N. Main Street

/ 8%, 540-463-7440 C.
30703 www.newopticians.com

o'\\\?’€’\S

 

PAGE 8

FIJI — The Phi Gams showed nothing but com-
plete dominance in their undefeated regular season
run. With the likes of Wes Kirnrnel, Chris Caramore,
and Reed “patty—cakes” N euman, this team has the
size, speed, talent, and with Yohe, Walcott, Patterson,
and McConnell in the mix, they have the deepest team
in the tourney. After last year’s ﬁnals loss, IFIJI is
looking to go all the way and-should,
so long as their early season dorrli—
nancel doesn’t lead to overconﬁ—
dence. Odds towinitall-3to2

Faculty — Last year’s charnpi—
ons, the faculty has a completely different team this
year. Coach Snyder is hurt, and potential IIVI power-
house Kadlubowski leaves them without an inside
force. As a result, they have adapted a high-octane
run—and-shoot offense, with the likes of Head Coach
Adam Hutchinson, Professor Casey, and Alumni Of-
ﬁce All-Star Eric Owsley. When they’ve got the hot
touch, this is a dangerous team, but without a pres-
ence inside, back—to-back championships may be a
tough order. Odds to win it all — 8 to 1

Law 2 (A) — The most dangerous law team, these

  

guys simply out—powered all the teams in their group, j

breezing to an easy #1 seed. Overwhelmingly ath-
letic, these guys like to run, drive and kick, and shoot
the three. Their only hurdle was a Phi Psi team that
played a tight first half, but then the law guys ran all
over the place in the 2”“ half and won by twenty.
Probably the best starting ﬁve in the tourney, this
team can only be beaten in a slow—tempo, grind-it-
out game. Odds to winit all—2 to 1

Lambda — The greatest Cinderella story in IM
B—ball history, Lambda surprised everyone with a leg-
endary undefeated regular season run, complete with
a last—second miracle win over Team Trotter. In the
playoffs, they will depend on post—play dominance
from wunderkind Adam Kowalsky and the Frat Lord
himself, as well as the outside touch ﬁom Pittypat
Jones, Marshall “The Miracle” Rule, and ﬂoor gen-
eral Moms Beshore. How far will this miracle story
go? Odds towinitall—8to 1

SAE — Plenty of size on this team, with Saxon,
Bode, Geist and Co., the E—dogs are the most power-

Hazing a

THE

iiiiiii 

THER1l\lG-TUM Pln

ful #2 seed in the tournament. They will out—rebound
their opponents and own the paint, but run—and-shoot
teams may give them a spot of trouble. Also, SAE
does not boast a lot of great outside shooters, leav-
ing questions about their ability to come from behind
— if needed, that is. Odds to win it all — 4 to 1

Phi Kap — Team Skulls plays physical basketball,
having survived some close games
with Sigma Chi and Chi Psi. The team
boasts valuable role—players, includ-
ing Hy-land-o and downtown—threat
Warren Hunter, but it’s no secret that
the key to this team is Chris Carlson. He takes a variety
of ﬂoaters, running-jurnpers and treys, and if he makes
those shots, Phi Kap will win. Otherwise, they’ll be
going home early. Odds to win it all——20 to 1

 

Pi Phi —A#2 seed courtesy of a win over PIKA,
Pi Phi slipped late in the season with a loss to the Indy
1 Panthers. Deceptively deep, Pi Phi is led by combo-
guard Adam Heinhauer and surprising post-man Whit
Whitﬁeld. But does Pi Phi have the athleticism to
compete with bigger, faster teams? To get anywhere,
they’ll need some trey bombs from Volbrecht and Baluk
to help the cause. Odds to win it all— 50 to 1

Phi Delt— The deﬁnition of a running team, Phi
Delt will look to Billy DeBuys, Greg Tweardy, and
Joel Carter to lead their high-octane offense deep
into the playoffs. While they can score a lot of points,

AST ORD

Official guide to W&L’s intramura

their defense is still unproven, as seen in their only
loss to Law 2 A. So long as they can get a bunch of
easy opportunities on offense, and aren’t forced to
shootjump—shots, Phi Delt is a dangerous team. Odds
to win it all — 7 to 1

Sigma Chi — Team Trotter was stunned in two last I

second losses, thanks to Chris Carlson and Marshall
Rule. In the tourney, Sigma Chi will live and die by the
three—pointer—if Trotter, Rob Rain, and early First—Team
candidate Chris Davis can drain the tllree—ball, Sigma
Chi has a chance to win. But the real question for
Sigmachee is their defense. This team has next to no
help inside — if Femald has to guard someone like
Neurnan, ouch. Oddstowinitall—30to 1
PIKA — The most underachieving team in the

regular season, PIKA should be dangerous come play

PH PO no
From left: Chris Caramore, Wes Kimmel and Patrick Newman. Can Fiji’s triple threat take them all
the way?

off time. Wltll Kerry Kellogg, Joe Lenoir, and the
versatile A.J. Manett, this team has plenty of fire
power. Mayson, Fasio and Treco add some size in
the paint, but are they physical enough to compete
with the big boys? Rebounding will be the key as
PIKA looks to make their championship run. Odds to
win it all 20 to 1

Law I — This law team has size and power, but
still struggled at times against SAE and the quicker
Faculty team. Nonetheless, they should beat smaller
teams simply by rebounding and outworking their
opponents in the paint. With not a lot of outside

   

lVlK}ANMORGAN
Alus&LlrrEolToR
EMAmlAoRoANnl1@uUlDU
TUESDAY, MARCH 15,2004

1 basketball playoffs

threats, this team would post—up every possession if
they were smart — in that sense, they control their
own destiny. Odds to win it all — 20 to 1

Phi Psi — The Frat Lord’s early season dark-
horse pick, Phi Psi has the dynamic duo of Todd
Chatham and Harnbone Hamilton. When these two
get going, it’s tough to slow them down, but de-
fense is the real key to Phi Psi’s playoff run. If they
manage to slow down the faster, more talented
teams, they’ll have a chance to make a decent run.
Oddstowinitall—50to1 .

Law 111 — A #4 seed thanks to a close win over
Indy 1, Law III will rely on their big man (you know,
the one with all the kids running around) and Paul
Pittman for any chance to make it anywhere in the
playoffs. Not very deep or talented, this team will
have to grind it out for a chance — they simply don’t
have the athleticism to compete with the more tal-
ented teams in the pool. Odds to win it all — 100 to 1

Kappa Sig — With two forfeits in the regular
season, Kappa Sig is now looking to prove them-
selves in the playoffs. Trey Hart is one of the
better big men in the tourney, but other than Tyler
Wolf, who provides excellent hustle work, K-
Schwag probably doesn’t have the depth or talent
to compete far into the tournament. Look for a first
round exit. Odds to win it all — 200 to 1

KA — Probably the best #4 seed, KA did rea-
sonably well even without the presence of Mos-
cow Franceski for most of the games. Whether or
not he plays in the tourney will help determine the
Order’s chances. Hunter Baird will shoot the three
anytime he chooses, and KA also boasts some
decent rebounders. However, this team doesn’t
play a lick of defense, and that will be their down-
fall in the tourney. Odds to win it all — 150 to 1

Law 2 B — The fourth and ﬁnal law team in the
tourney, Law 2 B slipped in through a three-way
tiebreaker with Chi Psi and Irldy 2. While not a very
well—rounded team, they do have scoring threats,
especially with the slasher—,shooter Kelsy Simcox.
While not terribly successful in the regular season,
this team could be dangerous if their opponents
take them lightly. Odds to win it all — 175 to 1

ways wrong, administration right to investigate allegations

BY JEB BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

I don’t think the administration is out to get us. You can call me an “ass-
kisser,” “brown-noser’ ’ or “suck-up.” I call myself realistic. Hear me out.

Maybe I’m missing something. Maybe I’m wrong. But, it seems to me
that when a parent or student accuses a fraternity of a potentially serious
hazing violation, an investigation must be conducted. For the sake of the
safety of the student, the house and the community, no stone may be left
unturned. Washington and Lee University has a duty to ensure that people’s
lives are not being put at risk under its watch. Sony y’all, but W&L can’t
allow us to injure — whether physically or mentally — each other.

Further, if no hazing occurred, an investigation can clear up any
misunderstanding. ’

RecentlyI’veheardmanystudents saythatadministratorsarehell-berlton
destroying allthatweloveaboutthisplace. Ifwelovetheopportunitytodernean

and even beat younger students, tllere’s something severely

wrongwith us. Weretheoneswhoneedtobeinvestigated What sort of message does it send
when these men are maggots on
Friday and suddenly exalted on
Saturday? Call me a'fool,.but
folks, this simply doesn’t make

The administration wins nothing by destroying a sys-
tem that we love. I don’t mean to put words in anyone’s
mouth, but I would be willing to bet that neither the Oﬁice
of Student Alfairs nor the Interfratemity Council want to
make otlr Washington and Lee experience negative. They
want students to enjoy their time in college. Their goal is to
ensure that these are the best four years of our lives.

The folks on the second ﬂoor of the Commons
want the Greek system to exist for its positives, not its negatives. They
want all the beneﬁts of fraternities without the dangers. Can you blame
them? Fraternities are wonderful. Fraternities are great. There are count-
less beneﬁts. Trouble starts when Greeks‘ cause problerrls.

When students are made to feel uncomfortable or are_injured, some-

another student at risk, someone must step in. If we are unable to
police ourselves, other groups must check on ‘us.

Washington and Lee allows a tremendous amount of student au-
tonomy. How many other schools permit students to adjudicate nearly
every offence themselves? Not many. From what I’ve heard, the IFC is
doing a ﬁne job. Keep it up. It’s thanks to their hard work and maturity
that students are allowed to continue governing themselves.

BynowifsclearthatldonotsupporthazinginanyfashiorrIdon’tcare
wheﬂrersomeorlecaﬂsaﬁeshmananameorbeatslnmwithabasebaﬂbat
it’s wrong. I believe a new member education pro-

remernber getting to know everyone in your fraternity in a positive and healthy
environment? Apledge program that unites a class, but divides a house is not
successful. It makes more sense to bring an entire house together and not leave
freshmen hating sophomores because of cruel interaction among classes.
Ifeelcompelledtomakeitknownthatlhavenothadmuchtodo withthe
pledgeperiodat my house. Callme abadbrother, butlhave spenttime irl other
endeavors. I can only write intelligently about my own pledge period [remem-

_ ber that it was a positive experience. I learned about my pledge class as well as

the othermembers of the house. Unlike my ﬁiends at otherhouses, I did not join
my fraternity with any hatredforthe oldermembers. Instead, I

gram should be focused on bringing a group of ac— ' - joined a group of friends sparmirlg four academic classes. I
quaintances together as friends. It should not in- Fraternity or no fratermty’ certainly hope that the freshmen who have just joined my
clude any sort of physical orrnerrtal punishment Af- You 31' 5 the Same Per 5011- house had a similar, positive experience.

ter a brief the stllderlts whom you demean
 Whatsortofrrlessagedoesitsendwhenthese
men are maggots on Friday and suddenly exalted on Saturday? Call me a
fool, but folks, this simply doesn’t make sense.
My definition of hazing is a great deal
more broad than most. I’ll be the ﬁrst to admit
that. I ask this: would I do this to my best
friend? If the answer is “yes,” it’s not hazing.
If it’s a “no,” that’s hazing. That seems simple,
right?
There are other ways to unite a group.
Try hikes and basketball games. Start a poker
tournament, watch a movie together or go out
to dinner. Do community service. Pledge classes can bond without
being made to feel less than their future brothers.
Sure, there are the hazers who say “I wouldn’t trade my pledgesllip
experience foranythingintheworld They don’tkrlowitnow, butthey’lllook
back on it fondly.” How much more fondly would you look on memories of

SCIISC.

' Bottom line: Hazing is wrong. Period. End of story.
Anyone who says differently is confused. Whether you tear someone
down emotionally or physically, it is wrong. Membership in a fraternity —
no matter how cool — is not worth being hazed for. I’d look somewhere

Q else for a set of friends before I joined a group who insisted on beating me

down. Those aren’t very good friends, at least not according to my
deﬁnition.

Fraternity or no fraternity, you are the same person.

Freshman fratemity members: I would like to ask that you please not
haze next year. I’m not certain, but I think that the situation will be a little
different during the next pledge period It’s about time changes were made.
Guys, follow the rules and use common sense. Act maturely. It will pay olf.
There is no need to demean anyone for the beneﬁt of pledge class urlity.

If there is someone out there who can convince me that I’m wrong,
please do it. I’ll gladly change my mind if I’m not in the right. I will happily
provide you the space in The Ring—tum Phi to make your point. I’m often
wrong and I’ll gladly admit it if I am. I don’t believe I am in this case,
though. Please feel free to shoot me an email at brooksj @wlu.edu. Con-

thing is really wrong. When a peer puts the health and well-being of

more positive interactions with your “brothers?” Wouldn’t it be better to

vince me.

“'7

Q I want to do dirty things with Matt Fink.

 

Q You know that movie, “Win a Date with Tad
Hamilton?” They should change it to “Win a Date
with Matt Fink.”

Q Shady Viktor is in love with Lena, and so is
shady Sasha. They think she is “ochen krasivaya.”
But Lena is hitting on Jim, the American graduate
student— and so is Tanya! What will happen in
this twisted love square? Find out next week in the
TMC! ‘

Q Has anyone else realized how beautiful Mallory
Calhoun is?

Q Drew Hotaling and Emilee Johnson are the
cutest couple ever.

Q Peggy Altman is my hero!

Q Emma Burris’ roommate is looking for informa-
tion concerning her library hideout. Monetary re-
wards will be offered.

Q You can’t be a nonconforrnist if you don’t drink
coffee.

Q Can someone please explain to me the logic of
wearing a heavy winter coat if your skirt is eight
inches long? Cover your damn legs. No wonder
you’re cold. ‘

Q Best line from a prospective: “Do you want a
beer?” “No thanks, I’ve already had one.”

Q Of all the soccer players, Scott Pittman is the
hottest in his pink jersey.

Q “Piss is just like salty water.” —Jirn McDougal1

Q I’ve heard about this: it’s spontaneous com-
bustion, but it only happens to fat people near
ﬂames.

Q “Kody” by Matchbox 20, W&L theme song
anyone?

Q Travis Smith earned an 800 on the math sec-
tion of the SAT.

Q A certain Kappa in a blue dress needs to cut
down on the party pics. As well as on her time in
the tanning bed.

Q Norman Senior is soooo hot! I wish he had
danced with me at Fancy Dress.

Q Tim Smith, I think we had better girls before we
went co-ed.

Q More: Tim Smith, I’d rather go through hell
weeks than be stuck in a room with three W&L
girls for three minutes.

Q Still more: Tim Smith, did you lose a bet?

Q Yet still more: Tim Smith, I guess you missed
the little man running rampant with the ugly stick.
He kicks more ass than Chesbrough.

Q Finally: Tim Smith, what kind of sick sarcasm
are you trying to use to make fun of the terrible
girls here?

Q People should start saying thanks to those
working in dining services. Use those Southern
manners your mommy and daddy taught you and
say,  to the people at the cash register or
cooking your food. P

Q The next girl that pushes someone out of the
way in the D-Hall line is going to get slapped.

Q Thank God for Erik Sivertson and Colton Ward.

Q First exploiting Campus Notices, now Quick
Hits. SAO needs to give it a break.

Q Reasons Gilliam is better than Graharn—Lees: 1)
We can pee in our sinks at night. 2) Gilliam is TFC—
free.

Q “Raging Intellectuals”~— little more than an
entertaining, sharp, hilarious editorial. Lighten up.
Besides, the world always needs more John
Basedow.

Q Decagon? More like Upperdeckagon.

Q The Decagon is holding informal recruitment
interviews. Applicants are encouraged to be to-
tally sweet.

Q You have to wait in line to use the comput-
ers at the kiosks just like everyone else. Don’t
butt in.

Q You are not a beautiful and unique snowﬂake.

Q Congratulations to the newly initiated Kappa
Delta Pledge Class of 2004!

Q Does anyone else feel that Quick Hits is be-
coming just another editorial by Jeb Brooks and

Brett Kirwan?

(1) This is the only Quick Hit written by Jeb and
Brett this week.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and plans

A for Spring Break to phi@wlu.edu.

4"

/‘A.

 

