 

K

Security nabs
laptop thieves

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Campus security apprehended one of the two
men accused of burgling the law school. Students
complained of laptop thefts earlier this winter term.

In the early morning hours of March 13, Officer
Daniel Rexroderecognizedtherewas something wrong
when he found two young men in a black Ford pick—up
truck in the Lee Chapel parking lot. Because neither
man had any identiﬁcation, Rexrode called local police.
One of the suspects “bail ” when police were called,"
but Rexrode held onto the other until police arrived.

Police discovered a laptop case, three bookbags
full of laptops, a box of assorted items and some CD
cases in the back of the truck. ‘

“Four or ﬁve laptops” in total were discovered,
said Director of Security Mike Young. The suspect
was charged with possession of stolen goods. Secu-
rity towed the suspect’s truck

“Because of his [Rexrode’s] attentive attention to
detail, we got these guys,” said Young.

By looking through mug shots, Rexrode has iden-
tiﬁed the suspect who got away from the scene, and it
is just a matter of time before that suspect isvarrested
too, said Young.

One suspect is from Waynesboro. The other sus-
pect, “is a known thief, a convicted criminal from this
community who was released from jail recently——hope-
fully he’ll be going back soon,” said Young.

Catching thieves, “doesn’t come from luck as
much as paying attention,” said Young, who credits
Rexrode with excellent security work.



TON

   

L EUNIVERSIIY

UM

Ylie student ooice of Washington and Lee University since I 897

  .................. 
MONDAY, MARCH22, 2004

 

MC 2

UP IN SMOKE!

Diamond Street trafﬁc.

PUT IT OUT! Aﬁre at 301 Diamond Street across from Lylburn
Downing Iniddle school broke out at 3:20 p.m. Saturday afternoon.
Lexington, Buena Vista, Rockbridge County and Kerrs Creek fire
departments all responded to the fire. Fire trucks blocked trafﬁc

their son who lives in Glasgow.

Robert Foresman, Lexington Fire Chief, said that the fire was “accidental and
possibly electrical.” A fire official at the scene said that the fire started under the i
porch on the left side of the house. A small crowdwatched the firemen ﬁght the fire.
No one was injured, but the house is a total loss. The residents have moved in with

S'I'EVIﬂ\Il\/IARIN

Ring-tum ‘ '

Student Health Committee recommends change to smoking policy in dorms

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Next year, campus smokers will be forced out-
side. The Student Health Committee, chaired by.
Doctor Horton, devised a~new ‘policy regarding
smoking in and around residence halls.

All indoor areas of the residence halls will be
non—smoking, and smokers must refrain from smok-
ing in entrances to buildings, near open windows
and air intakes and in any other area where air is not
dispersed well. “Unfortunately, our halls lack com-
mon spaces that could be designated for smoking
while still maintaining smoke-free air for non-smok-
ers,” said Dean David Leonard.

Adrninstrators have been dealing with issues
of second-hand smoke all year. “We have encoun-
tered numerous issues with students who are con-
cemed, frustrated, and angered about having to deal
with second-hand smoke that emanates into hall-
ways,” said Leonard. “N on—smokers rights need to
prevail due to the fundamental health issues and
risks associated with second-hand smoke,” he said.

Students will be expected to help implement

the new policy. For the policy to be effective, Wash-
ington and Lee will need the courtesy, respect and
cooperation of everyone. Students should direct
their first complaints to the smoker. If problems
aren’t resolved, the complaints should be directed
to the Residential Life staff ‘and finally to Dean
Leonard or Dean Futrell, said Leonard.

“I think W&L is turning into a Nazi police
state...what’s next? Bedtimes?” asked Allen Barry, a
junior dorm counselor.

The American College Health Association and
the American Cancer Society agree that second-
hand smoke exposure causes eye and nasal irrita-
tion, reduces lung ftmction, exacerbates asthma,
increases the risk of respiratory tract infections and
has acute effects on the cardiovascular system.
Second—hand smoke can cause lung-disease and
death, even in non-smokers.

“If it’s for a safety issue, I guess it’s
understndable, however, as a smoker, I think it’s
just one more armoying sanction,” said sophomore
Mathilde Hungerford.

Fire risk was also considered when the com-

‘ rriittee created this new policy.

H TEVEN ' I 0 '
PUT IT OUT! Students like Jon Cochran ‘O6 will no longer be able to smoke inside residence halls.

 
   

. as" ..
.

Goldberg only beginning of exciting Contact season

BY KAELA HARMON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Jonah Goldberg is just the
first of several speakers who will
be brought to campus for the du-
ration of the year.

Goldberg is the editor of the
country’s largest conservative
online newsmagazine, National
Review Online, and was brought
to campus by Contact, Hillel and
Young America’s Foundation. He
spoke last Ihesday in Lee Chapel.

In his talk, entitled “Diversity, Paci-
fism, and Other Controversial
Ideas,” Goldberg was entertaining
and informative in expressing his
views on “compassionate conser-
vatism,” the dangers of rriaking di-
versity “the be all that ends all” and
“why we should reconsider feder-
alisIn.”

About 50 people turned out for
the lecture, which was followed by
a reception at the Alumni house.

This was Contact’s ﬁrst oﬂicial
event, and Contact Chairman
Victoria Guroian admitted that she

was a bit disappointed about the
turnout. “We thought it would be
nice to bring in a conservative
speaker in light of Mock Conven-
tion.”

She acknowledged, however,
that “Although they [students]
claim to be conservative [they’re]
a little bit complacent.”

Guroian isn’t worried. She
said that they have several other
speakers planned for the next few
weeks. They have teamed up with
the Journalism Ethics Institute for
their next event which will be this

Thursday when fomier “60 Min-
utes” producer, Lowell Bergman,
comes to speak Bergman is also
known as the person on whom the
ﬁlm “The Insider” is based.

For Contact’s “keynote”
event, the committee plans to bring
in David Boies. Boies, who argued
the Napster case as well as the
Florida recount case, is known as
one of the nation’s top litigators.
He is scheduled to speak during
exam week on April 6.

Explorer Conrad Anker and a
Cuban refugee who has gone on to

become a political advocate are
also scheduled to come to campus

In the past, Contact has
started their lecture series much
earlier in the school year but sev-
eral factors combined to get them

the administration but they all de-
clined and that “put us behin ”.
Guroian noted that when
you’re dealing with money and try-
ing to bring in big names it is un-
portant to remember that ‘you’re a

oﬁ to a slow start this year. slave to your budget” and that “It’s
Guroian said that earlier this always a struggle to find the best
year, Contact invited Ralph Nader way to spend your money.” She is

to come to campus and that ini-
tially he accepted the invitation.
Then after making the committee
wait for conﬁrmation, he declined.
She also said that they were hop-
ing to get additional funding from

conﬁdent that by the end of the
year Contact will have had another
successful year. “We’ve got a great
Logistics Chair [Brent Beshore],
and as long as we’re ahead, stuff
always comes together.”

Seifert receives Watson Fellowship, plans world travel

BY KYLE \VAss
ASSISTANT EDITOR

Washington and Lee Senior Paul Seifert was
recently given the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship,
awarded to a maximum of 50 people of college-gradu-
ation age.

The Watson Fellowship was developed in 1968
to give college graduates “of unusual promise the
freedom to engage in a year of independent study
and travel abroad following their graduation,” ac-
cording to the fellowship’s website.

With the stipend awarded by the Watson Fel-
lowship — $22,000 for the year, plus a supplemental
amount equal to a year’s payment of outstanding
federally guaranteed and institutional student loans
— students have the opportunity to travel abroad
for a “focused and disciplined year of their own
devising.”

Travel must not include areas of the world in
which the student has previously lived or studied
for a long period of time.

Students awarded the fellowship are prohibited
from returning to the United States for the full year
that they are studying abroad, be-
ginning no later than August 1st
of the summer following the
student’s graduation from college.

Students may propose a
topic of study for the Watson Fel-
lowship in nearly any ﬁeld they
choose, but it should “reﬂect a
candidate’s genuine interest in, and long-standing
commitment to, a speciﬁc pursuit,” and essentially
be “personally significant, imaginative, and fea-
sible,” according to the fellowship’s website. The
year abroad may not involve formal study at a for-
eign institution.

I still don’t think it has completely sunk in
yet — that I’m getting to travel the world
next year to participate in the two things I
love the most — fishing and art

Paul Seifert, a senior here at W&L, plans to travel
all over the world with the purpose of engaging liim—
self with people whose livelihood hinges on ﬁshing.

In his project summary, Seifert wants “to
live in small coastal angling communities in the
tropics where
a reliance on
catching fish
— a constant
struggle with
sun, salt and
surf — causes
fishing to
seep into other parts of the culture.”

His proposal for study is titled “Where Fish-
ing is Life: Recording Angling Cultures with Paint
and Poetry.” Places that he plans to travel include
primarily coastal villages in the tropics, such as,
Ponta de Macaneta on the southern coast of

Mozambique, Mararikulam of India, the noithem coast
of Peru, and the northeastem coast of Brazil.

Seifert seems stunned by his accomplishment.
In response to his new opportunity, Seifert said, “I
still don’t think it has completely sunk in yet — that
I’m getting to travel the world next year to participate
in the two things I love the most — ﬁshing and art.”

According to their website, in selecting Watson
Fellows, the Watson Foundation is most concerned
with “holistically identifying individuals who dem-
onstrate integrity, irnagination, strong ethical char-
acter, intelligence, the capacity for vision and lead-
ership, the promise of creative achievement, and ex-
cellence within a chosen ﬁeld.”

Fellows are also selected partially on the basis
of their academic record and extracurricular activi-
ties “which reﬂect both initiative and serious dedi-
cation.” Seifert is currently business manager of
The Ring-tum Phi.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

  I

II

‘NOTES

Pro-lite club plans baby shower for Wednesday

Students for Life is hosting a Baby Shower to beneﬁt the
families of Staunton Pregnancy Help Center on Wednesday, March
24, at 7p.m. in Commons Room 345. Please come with a baby gift
and enjoy desserts, prizes, party favors, and a guest speaker. If
you carmot come but wish to help, donations will be collected in
the common room of the Commons up until Wednesday night.
Baby donations include toys, blankets, clothes, diapers, etc.

Woman’s activist vists as scholar-in-residence

Dr. Bernice R. Sandler, a key player in the development and
passage of Title IX and other legislation prohibiting discrimina-
tion against women in education, will meet with students, faculty
and the president of Washington and Lee University as the
school’s scholar—in-residence March 22-24.

Sandler will deliver a keynote address on “Peer Harassment: What
Is It? How to Stop It?” on Tuesday, March 23, at 7:30 p.m. in the theater
of W&L’s John W. Elrod University Commons. The speech is open to
the public without charge. The speech will draw on Sandler’s "re-
search on student-to-student harassment as a senior scholar at the

g Women’s Research and Education Institute in Washington, D.C.

Corrections

Last week’s article entitled “Truck driver implicated in Owings’
death receives 30 days in jail, ﬁne” we incorrectly spelled Owings’
name. The correct spelling is Cullum.

Also in last week’s issue, we did not attribute the statistics in the
article headlined “Anti-Ignorance campaign planned to hit campus in
April.” The statistics came from the ofﬁce of Institutional Research.

Hidden Hero Haeberle helps humanity

Freshman class President, Bonner Leader, active in fraternity life through Owings Service Initiative

Freshman class president
Tye Haeberle is known by many
because of his outgoing nature
and friendly demeanor. His
friendliness extends to the com-

you’ve done means so much to
the patients.”

Last term Tye took Profes-
sor Beckley’s Poverty 101 class
and said that it had a profound

munity because impact on
of the large ~L—-————— him, “It is a
amount of volun- HIDDEN HEROES class that
teerworkheisin- everyone
volved with. JORDAN  s h o u l d

Tye recently take,” Tye

joined the Bonner Leadership‘

group. This program will have
him working on 900 hours of
community service by the end
of his junior year. In addition, he
stands to take leading positions
in the Owings Service Initiate, a
newly formed organization de-
signed to help get Fraternities
more involved with community
service. This summer he will con-
tinue his work by volunteering
back home in Ashland, Ky., and
working in a doctor’s ofﬁce.
Tye is pre—med and de-
scribed it as an amazing amount
of work. He said he has spent at
least one big party night in the
science library. Tye wants to be
a doctor, like his father. Every
time he sees his dad’s patients
they look genuinely grateful,
and that “nothing could really
compare to saving a life...what

said, citing it as his favorite class.
He feels Professor Beckley’s

poverty class is important be- M

cause it’s all too easy to get
trapped in the “Washington and
Lee Bubble” and to “just ignore
what’s going on only a few miles
away from campus.”

While here at W&L, 'I‘ye also
strongly encourages others to
“always take a chance when
meeting new people.”

He says that the most im-
portant thing to do here is to
make good relationships, be-
cause when things get rough
they are they only things that
matter.

In addition to volunteering
and working this summer, Tye re-
ally wants to travel to Utah and
visit Arches National Park and
camp in the desert. He wants to
get out and see as much as he can.

Mosr ELIGIBLE BACHELOR. The Phi has it on good authority that many
Freshmen ladies are after Hidden Hero Haeberle.

Jeb retires from Ring-tum Phi to pursue other opportunities

BY JEB BROOKS

I will devote my "‘free time” to my new position on the

EDITOR IN CHIEF

It’s time for me to say goodbye. This is my last
issue as editor in chief of The Ring-tum Phi. Next
week I’ll pass the buck on to a very capable group
of people.

Andrew Latimer ‘05 will serve as editor in chief,
Erin Julius ‘O6 as managing editor and Chris
Lauderman ‘O6 will be production director. My stint
required between 40 and 60 hours of work in a week
and taiight me that no one person should have to
bear such a burden on his shoulders.

These three qualified students will divide the
workload among themselves and strive to bring you
a phenomenal product. p . '

Latimer served as News Editor and Opinions Editor
at the Phi two years ago. His work was (and will be) bar
none. His ability to see the “big picture”will ensure
that the newspaper stays timely and does not falter
from its current path. .

Julius performed as Sports Editor last year and
News Editor this year. Her ability to recruit new staff-
ers and discover stories is incredible. Her dedication
to the Phi is unmatched. She will work to make sure
that writers write and section editors edit.

Lauderman will be certain that our ads are properly
placed and our advertisers remain happy. He will also
interface with our printer. His hard work and consis-
tently positive attitude serve to keep the staff going.

David Seifert will run the business side. He has
learned much under the careful tutelage of his brother
Paul, the current business manager. David will surely
continue to keep the Phi running like clockwork.

Other staff positions will be announced in the fu-
ture. Please get in touch with one of these three for
information about joining the Phi.

Student Judicial Council. I very much look forward to dedi-

cating myself to student governance at Washington and
Lee University. Our level of student autonomy 'is unique
and I can't wait to be a part of our system.

This year has brought terriﬁc change for the Phi. We
began it with our move into the University Commons. I am
proud to say that we were the first student organization to
move into the new facility. We are preparing to celebrate one
year in our new Commons office. The new facility, though
smaller, has helped us immensely. We have thrived in our
high-tech, more public and cleaner workplace. We have seen
an increase in the number of staffers. Thanks to the hard
work of that dedicated staff, we have cut our production
time to six hours on Sundays. It sounds like a lot of time, but
as the old saying goes, “time ﬂies when you’re having fun.”

We have covered some major stories during the course
of this year. We dealt with suspensions of fraternities, the
retention of Spring Term, Mock Convention, Student Lead-
ers coming under fire, thefts at the Law School, the disap-
pearance of Honor Court records at VMI and the question-
able future of the Buffalo Creek Music Festival.

In short, the year has been incredible. I have
learned so much about our community and myself.
My skin is thicker, my horizons are broader and the
pressure and workload have led me to lose a few
pounds.

My advice to next year’s- staff is simple. Have fun. Edit-
ing a newspaper is, at times, very stressful. Don’t let it get to
you. Make sure you do your best and don’t let anything get
you down. Oh, and don’t worry. If you need something, I’ll
probably be somewhere in the Commons. I already live here!

And one more thing. I must thank my grand-
mother for her weekly critical reading of the Phi.
Her input single-handedly led to massive increases
in our copy editing staff. Thanks for the feedback!
Next year’s group will miss your perspective.

FEARLE$ LEADERS. Latimer, Julius and Lauderman look to a bright future at 7heRing-tum Phi.

~ HELPAFRIEND ORNEIGHBOR ~ ,
JOIN THE 400+ MEMBERS OF THE NABORS SERVICELEAOUE.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, EMAIL JOANNA PERINI AT PERINI]@\Il/LU.EDU

Don’t drink and drive...
Call Traveller
540-45 8-8900

Celebrate Spring Time
Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day
Brides ~ Graduation

witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540) 264-0063
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements
Certified through VA Board of Nursing
13 Years Experience

Cleaners

 

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

FORALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING NEEDS:

University

Don’t forget to take the National College
Health
Survey next week.

Send questions to J an Kaufman at
jkaufman@wlu.edu

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

The Ring-tum Phi

your source for
accurate,
quality and
complete

NEWS, OPINION, SPORTS AND LIFE
A at
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

'.

.7}

 

 

4

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

 )1TORlAL

L

Trident has seriously erred

The Ring—tum Phi believes that .

Washington and Lee’s other student
newspaper, The Trident, must clean up
its act. Recent content has been offen-
sive and cruel. The Executive Com-
mittee is right to complain (see page 4.).

The publication continues to call it-
self “independent” despite the fact that
the organization received $5,000 in Ex-
ecutive Committee funding.

In essence, the Executive Commit-
tee paid off half of The Trident’s debt
during the budget allocations session at
the beginning of the year. Previous EC’s

were unwilling to extend the same cour- '

tesy to The Ring—tum Phi and Calyx
during their times of ﬁnancial need; we
were told to get out of debt ourselves.
Further, The Trident consistently prints
offensive content. We understand the dif-
ferences between our publications. In fact,
we respect those differences. There ex-
ists, however, a line that should not be
crossed. Direct and mean-spirited attacks
have been appearing with more regularity.
Ironically, The Trident was founded
as a response to similar editorial missteps
by The Ring—tum Phi ten short years ago.
In short, The Trident receives fund-
ing from the student activities fee and
uses it to print harsh and pointed attacks
at the same students who pay those fees.
We respect and admire the Execu-
tive Committee for taking a stance on this
issue. We believe that everything con-
tained within their open letter is right on.
While wary of censorship, we must
use common sense. Common sense dic-
tates that being asked to carefully con-
_ sider the consequences of printing hurtful
commentary that amounts to nothing more
than a laugh is not censorship. Common
sense also dictates that cutting something
that is newsworthy or important does fall
into that category. The difference is clear.
Student publications must balance
on a very thin line. We believe that The
Trident has crossed it on several occa-
sions and ask, as did the Executive Com-
mittee did, that they carefully consider
what they print in the future.

THE RING-TUM PHI

CALEYANDEJEDN
OPlNlOl\BFDlIOR

FMAEArt)HuoN<@nUEDU

PINIONS

PAGE 3

Spring Term counts less for one student

It was the beginning of my freshman year that
all the “Save Spring Term!” hysteria began. Being
the naive newcomer, I joined in the outrage, signed
the student petitions, trashed the administration
with fellow students. To me and many others, Spring
Term took on mythical proportions — a paradise of
taking fun and easy classes, perpetual parties and
drunkenness, and enjoying the beautiful Virginia
weather and all the natural wonders in the Lexing-
ton area.

Turns out, this truly was a myth. Instead of
being the cakewalk that everyone
said it would be, I and countless
others were working our butts off
trying to keep up with the de-
mands of professors cramming 12
weeks of class into six weeks. Someone please ex-
plain to me how six hours per class every week is
supposed to be easy, never mind fun!

The key to surviving is to only take one class,
but what about that new six credit requirement com-
ing into effect in a few years? Are they crazy?!
Now, if we had the same amount of hours per week
as during the 12 week semester and had the same
amount of work required, then that would make more
sense.

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MoUrEvELrs ‘06

And what about how Spring Term is supposed
to be great because we can take interesting classes
that aren’t offered at other times. First of all, why
can’t we have interesting classes every semester
instead of having to wait for the end of the year?
Or would that make us too much like other schools?
Second of all, where are these interesting classes?
Only those that are able to study abroad or take
some sort of a ﬁeld class beneﬁt. Those of us that
have to stay on campus lose out.

My major, Politics, is only offering four courses
that are only available Spring Term,
the other four are their basic 100
level‘ requirements for the major.
Philosophy only has four Spring
Term courses, and Anthropology
and Sociology are only offering three.

Considering the fact that I would only be in-
terested in a few of these classes, that many other
students are competing for seats in this limited se-
lection, and that I might have a late course selec-
tion time, the odds of getting into one of these
“interesting” classes is very low. Plus, with the
insane amount of coursework required it is practi-
cally impossible to stay interested and not end up
hating the subject by the end of May.

Now, with all this extra work, it is much harder
to take a break and go to a party. Plus, frats aren’t
as interested in throwing parties because rush
and pledgeship are over and they’re just about
out of money. Sure, there’s still stuff going on,
but it’s harder to find and much harder to ﬁnd
time to go to.

And as for Goshen, I didn’t even get to go
last year because every time I had a break from
the studying and planned on going, it was ei-
ther a cold or rainy day. We didn’t even have
nice weather last year. Hopefully this spring
will be beautiful, but personally I would rather
be enjoying the beautiful weather back home at
the beach with my friends who get out of school
between the end of April and rnid-May, than stay
here working, hearing about all the fun they’re
having.

By the time we get back from school, the
carefree days are over; friends have started jobs
and have less free time to hang out. Plus, this
year, we are taking ﬁnals on Memorial Day, the
ofﬁcial celebration of summer beginning, so we
miss out on that big party weekend. Please,
somebody tell me: What is so great about Spring
Term?

 

“You’ve done a great job decorating the

White House.”

_~Jessica Simpson to Secretary
of the Interior Gale Norton

 

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Chris Lauderrnan
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Production Assistants Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Copy Editors Alexa Moutevelis

Kate Zawyrucha
Vanessa Amess

Business Managers Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Circulation Director Rob Rain
Asst. Circulation Dir. Leggett Kitchin
Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board. but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opin-
ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wIu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Scouts’ outdated
morals losing suport

  

 

 

COTE  m2
DISCRIMINATION? Do these kids want to exclude, or do they  Want to be Scouts?

Last year, I published an ar-
ticle in the Phi regarding my dis-
approval of the exclusionary poli-
cies of the Boy Scouts of America.
A former Boy Scout myself, I con-
tinue to have no end to my disap-
pointment at the BSA’s inexpli-
cable demand for rigid uniformity
to societal memes popular in the
1950s.

Now, mind you, I don’t think
the Scouts should
be ' forced to
change their poli-
cies by the govern-
ment, as some do.
They’re a private group, after all,
and are free to discriminate
against non—Christians as well as
homosexuals as they currently
do, by excluding both non—be-
lievers and homosexuals from
both becoming Boy Scouts, as
well as holding positions in the
organization itself.

The Eagle Scout whom I
wrote about last time was expelled
without appeal from the Scouts
simply because he made it known
that he did not believe in a god.
Unconstitutional? No. Dumb?
Yes. The BSA has many pur-
poses, but my understanding is
that the primary one is to ensure
that its members become edu-
cated, upstanding members of
society. If religious beliefs or
sexual orientation are more impor-
tant than that, then what are the
Scouts for, anyway?

So, while the Scouts may do as
they please, they will soon find them-
selves out in the cold if they don’t
leap forward by about forty or ﬁfty
years. It would do the Scouts great

receive state employee payroll deduc-
tion donations. The Scouts sued,
claiming (ironically), discrimination
against their particular set of values.
They lost in court because Federal
judges ruled that state governments,
though bound to treat all value sets
equally, are legally able to withhold aid
to groups that go against the state’s
own discrimination policy. The
Scouts’ appeal to the Supreme Court
was denied. Thus,
as the Scouts have
learned, discrimi-
nate, and you’ll of-
ten get discrimi-
nated against, or in this particular
state, upholding the private rights of
gays, secularists, and so on, takes pre-
cedence over the first amendment right
of denying those rights. The Scouts
have subsequently suffered similar
setbacks in most of the fifty states,
losing leases, charitable funds, and
signiﬁcant amounts of members. In
my own hometown of San Diego, the
Scouts were evicted from a public
aquatic facility, and a lawsuit there is
in progress, though you can count on
the results being the same as the pre-
cedent.

I wonder how many of the ado-
lescents, troop leaders, and the gen-
eral volunteers and members who com-
prise the rank and ﬁle in the Scouts
actually have strong views support-
ing the discriminatory policies. Some,
to be sure, but I’m sure just as many
go the other way in silent protest, and
many more are surely apathetic. You
can talk about “values” and “morals”
all you want, but in the end, those sup-
posed values and morals that hold that
both homosexuality and heresy on re-
ligious matters are morally wrong are
beneﬁt to embrace the inclusionary simply at odds with modern society,
policies held by any public institu— and with the beliefs of a majority of
tion. ‘ . Americans.

But if they don’t, well, what So, once more, while the elite of
happens? I predicted last year that the BSA administrators are free to do
they would lose public support un- as they please by putting God in the
less they modernized their “values.” Scout’s Code, and by expelling gays
InConnecticut, recently, atrend be— without a second thought, they
gan that has been subsequently fol- should be cautious. Unless they get
lowed by businesses and organiza- with the program, they may soon ﬁnd
tions in many other states. The State their funds dwindling, their facilities
Government there dropped the gone, and most of all, alarge number
Scouts from a list of charities that of their Scouts deserting.

MoDERArE’sMUsrNcs
cmrmaorr.

Examining “Feminism”
associal equality of sexes

Belief in the social, political, and economic equality of the sexes. Look up
the word “feminism” in any dictionary, and you will find a deﬁnition that
corresponds with this one. Over the years, this word has acquired a some-
what negative connotation, and it is not uncommon to find that mere are
many misconceptions about its meaning. Feminism is not about women re-
ceiving preferential treatment, men being degraded, men and women being
equal in every way, or any other absurd idea that it is often associated with. As
made clear by its definition, it is about
men and women being treated equally so-
cially, politically, and economically. It is
my opinion that upon honest consider-
ation, we will fmd nothing about this be-
lief that is so unbelievably radical. After all, everyone, I hope, williagree that
women and men should have equal political rights, that members of both
genders be paid fairly for equal work, etc.

However, the most controversial aspect of the theory of feminism does
not seem to deal with politics or economics: it is the demand for social equal-
ity that divides the population. I will be the first to admit that it is unreason-
able to claim that men and women are identical in every way. No one will
logically deny obvious differences between the two genders; however, I do
not ﬁnd it at all unwarranted to ask that men and women be treated equally. I
find that this is the goal that is most difﬁcult to realize in a society that insists
on sustaining old-fashioned stereotypes. Both males and females seem to be
obstinately set on keeping things the way they are at present.

A simple example will prove this point quite clearly. Everyone is familiar
with the idea that it is considered “gentlemanly” for a man to hold the door for
a woman, but I ask, is it believed to be “ladylike” if a woman does the same for
a man? Why is it thought polite or dutiful for a man to hold the door but
unusual or rare for women to do the same?

This kind of double standard applies to many social customs that exist to
this day. Practices like men paying for dinner, men being the ones who ask
women out, and men buying gifts for women, etc. are basically continuations
of a paternalistic tradition that obligates men to “take care” of women. I am
not saying that it is wrong for someone to treat someone else to dinner, but it
is wrong for us to believe that a man has an obligation to act in this way. It is
also wrong to think that it is somehow odd or bizarre for a woman to do the
same.

What it comes down to is the motive behind such actions. I think it is
obvious that a skewed idea of duty should not motivate polite actions like
holding a door for someone or treating someone to a meal. It would be won-
derful if everyone did these things out of a personal desire to be nice, but this
is unfortunately not always true. At first, the social customs I have used as
examples may seem trivial, but when one further delves into their rationale, it
becomes clear that they contribute signiﬁcantly to the existing order of social
inequality between the sexes. If we want this aspect of society to change, we
must begin with by re-evaluating how our very own actions contribute to its
subsistence.

Ring-tum Phi Quick Poll
Hazing
Today ’s Question - Do you support the actions

taken by the administration this year as regards
pledgeship and hazing?

A FRESH PERSPECTIVE
BIEEKA SHRESTHA ‘O7

NOT SURE
6%

YES NO  
50% 44%

34 students were polled, giving this poll
95% conﬁdence in a plus or minus 5%
margin of error. 19 of the polled students
were male, 15 were female.

Quick Poll Procedure- A simple random sample of students is
polled via random selection from the directory.

 

 



Letters to the Editor

EC concerned about Trident content

An Open Letter to the Editorial Board of
The Trident:

The Executive Committee believes that The
Trident’s content has recently teetered on the edge
of common decency.

While we understand your First Amendment
right to print whatever you wish, we believe that
student publications at Washington and Lee must
hold themselves to a higher and more respectable
standard. Recent sharp and specific attacks have
caused concern throughout the Student Body.

Printing hurtful commentary accomplishes
nothing. The choice to run such articles exempli-
ﬁes poor decision—making and judgment. Such
content emphasizes preexisting insecurities of
those whom you call out and makes public the per-
sonal aspects of the livesof innocent students.

Further, your publication is starting to em-
barrass and tarnish the good name of Washing-
ton and Lee University. Many of us are proud of
our community. The content of your publica-
tion often degrades what we hold most dear and
is a poor representation of Washington and Lee.
Alumni, faculty, parents, grandparents and —
given the timing of your most recent issue — pro-
spective students, see what you print and take it
as absolute truth.

A disclaimer at the bottom of an article is not
sufficient. Believing that a disclaimer makes it pos-
sible to print whatever you want is simply not just
or right.

We ask you to carefully consider what you
publish in a community as small as ours. Wash-
ington and Lee student publications are called to a
higher principle than what we have recently seen.

Please put more thought into what you print
in the future.

Sincerely,
The Executive Committee of the Student Body

 

INIONS

  

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

Anger over Honor System cynicism

DearEditor,

Last night, while at Pi Phi fraternity, vari-
ous people encouraged me to sign a petition.
Upon reading this sheet of paper covered in
signatures, I was first confused and then an-
gered. Ms. Brenda Hartless, whom I suppose
Pi Phi hired as their sober official as they of-
ten do, elicited signatures from many of the
students at the party. Now, this petition read
something like this, “I have lied or been lied
to while a student at Washington and Lee.”
My first complaint lies in the manner that Ms.
Hartless carried out this petitioning. Person-
ally, I believe that something as potentially
important as this petition has absolutely no
place at a band party at a fraternity house,
and especially when she requests the signa-
tures of drunk people. My second objection
lies in the principle for which this petition cir-
culated. I believe in Washington and Lee’s
Honor Code. Call me naive, but I still believe
what my tour guide, interviewers, and the
alumni told me made W&L so wonderful, that
the'Honor Code governs the school. At a time
when the administration has proven its pow-
ers to govern student life are wider than we
ever imagined (boys, how was hell week...?),
I believe we should think twice before ques-
tioning one of the only institutions that re-
mains completely student run. Do we really
want to tell them that we, as students of Wash-
ington and Lee, are not trustworthy? Please
think again. I desperately hope that this
poorly carried out petition carries no weight,
and that our faith in the Honor System is re-
newed.

Sincerely,
Tippins Stone, ‘07

W&L Girls easy on the eyes

Dear Editor,

Every week we at W&L are titillated by the
Phi ’s Quick Hits. I can’t imagine a better way of
displaying journalistic excellence than having a
section for random shout—outs and insults.

I was particularly titillated by the editor's
decision to print not one, not two, no, five
Quick Hits last week lashing out at the “ter-
rible girls” of W&L. Unfortunately, the writer
of said Hits neglected to realize that nearly
every female at W&L is over 18—giving her
the right to buy cigarettes, consent to sex
with frat guys, and be called a woman. The
Quick Hits claim that Tim Smith has “missed
the little man running rampant with the ugly
stick.” Hmm, I must not have been paying
attention, because I missed him too. Maybe I
shouldjgo look for him in Red Square or
Davidson Park, because I haven’t seen him
around Sorority Row lately. Anyone who
looks through the W&L Facebook or the Ca-
lyx will realize that we at W&L are blessed
with one of the most attractive female student
bodies on the East Coast and probably any-
where. Not only are women here attractive,
they are about 95 percent more likely to prac-
tice such habits as daily grooming, shower-
ing, getting regular haircuts, laundering
clothes, and actually paying attention to style
than fraternity .men at W&L. If you think
women here are unattractive, please, try visit-
ing some other campuses in the area. I’ve
been to Richmond, Wake Forest, Chapel Hill,
NC State University, Davidson College—
frankly, no one compares.

Although the writer dreads the day he “will
be stuck in a room with three W&L girls,” I
seriously doubt that that will ever happen if
this is his attitude towards women in general.

Let’s face it—no woman likes to be told she is
terrible or annoying. I could say that all men
here suck, but I truly believe that buried be-
neath that frat hair are some great minds, and
buried underneath that North Face there are
some hotties. Making gender generalizations
is never cool or tough, especially when such
generalizations only serve to enrage Srat
Lords. The self—proclaimed judge of women
at W&L obviously hasn’t realized that most
of the Big Men on Campus here date W&L
women. What does that make our friendly
Quick Hits writer? My sources say JEALOUS.

Sincerely,
Susan Somers ‘05

Letters to the Editor

Write in to the Phi at
phi@wlu.edu or
andersonc@wlu.edu. Entries
on nearly any responsible
subject will be printed by the
editor The Ring—tum Phi re-
serves the right to edit entries
for spelling, grammar, clarity,
and space. Some letters may
not be printed if there are
constraints on space.

<l><l>¢

Concept of female virginity reveals gender double standard

I just read anlarticle that

spoken word:

once you’ve to them, and there should not

simply made me cringe. There
is a fairly new procedure out
called hymenoplasty, which is a
surgical procedure that recon-
structs the hymen in a woman’s
body in order to restore her vir-
ginity. There are several both-
ersome things about the exist-
ence of such a procedure.

First of all, the selling point
is that this procedure will magi-
cally give you
back your virgin-
ity just like a
bottle of expen-
sive skin cream
would restore your skin to its
former youthful appearance.
Though I am somewhat skepti-
cal of the skin creams being able
to do this, I am absolutely skep-
tical of hymenoplasty restoring
a woman’s virginity.

Yes, you do get your hymen
back, but do you really have
your virginity back? It’s just
plastic surgery, and virginity is

much more than the breakage of

a hymen. It’s a state of mind.
Once you have lost your virgin-
ity, you in essence have blos-
somed into an adult (at least I
hope so) and are now a mature
young person. It is an experi-
ence that you do not want to
forget, and once it is done, it is
done forever.

Though hymenoplasty will
give you a new and some say
better hymen, you can never al-
ter your memory of that moment
in which you lost your virgin-

ity. You can’t take your loss of

virginity back. It’s like an ill-

TRA1No1= THOUGHTS
TRANKIM ‘O5

  I Student Discounts

said it, you can’t take it back,
regardless of how much you
apologize. Hymenoplasty sim-
ply creates a fantasy world in
which you think you are a vir-
gin, but in reality, you’re re-
ally not.

But the more pressing
concern is why are these
women performing this sur-
gery? The main reason seems
to be that
they are
ashamed of
having had a
sexual en-
counter before marriage and
feel as if they have depreci-
ated in value like a stock in
Enron. I didn’t think this
mentality still existed, but the
fact that such a procedure ex-
ists to restore a woman’s vir-
ginity proves me wrong. In-
deed, our society has not
progressed as much as I
thought. Women have finally
attained their deserved place
in politics, business, and
education, but they are still
restrained in the bedroom.

Sexuality is a natural hu-
man characteristic for both
men and women, and both
men and women have equal
rights to express their sexu-
ality in whatever way they
wish. Society seems to think
that men somehow have more
range in the sexual arena, but
that was so seventeenth cen-
tury. This is the twenty—first
century in which women can
be as sexual as the man next

be any criticisms towards
their behavior.

If you are one of those
people who criticize women for
being sexually active but not
men for similar behaviors, you
are a hypocrite. What gives a
man more right to go around
the block than a woman? The
existence of a penis is not a
valid reason because I will
trump that argument with the
existence of breasts. I have
also heard the argument that
that is what guys are like. Well
my response is well that’s
what women are like as well.
Men may have testosterone
but women have estrogen. I
think you’re getting my point.

So this belief that women
should be so ashamed if they’re
not virgins that they’ve got to
undergo surgery to hide their
actions needs to change. First
of all, shamefulness is merely a
state of mind. You are only as
shameful as you feel ashamed.
In everything you do, if you do
it with conviction, then people
will seldom criticize you.

People are quick to criti-
cize others not because of
what they do but how they do
it and how they act after do-
ing it. If you act weak and
appeared ashamed, then you
will undoubtedly attract
shameful reactions from your
peers. I have done many stu-

pid and embarrassing things .

in my life, but I have never felt
ashamed or embarrassed be-
cause the things I do define

who I am. I am known for be-
ing outspoken and stubborn
by my friends andl do and say
things they may feel embar-
rassed about if they had done
it themselves, but I do not be-
cause of a little thing called
conviction.

For the most part, people.
have no idea why they’re criti-
cizing you and just do it be-
cause society would do the
same, but if you act with a
sense of conviction and are
convinced that what you do is
perfectly fine, your peers will
also be convinced. It’s all
about marketing.

Second of all, you should feel
ashamed because of your own
values not because of other
people’s values. Ifyou value your
virginity and you lose it haphaz-
ardly, then yes, maybe you should
feel bad because you are betray-
ing yourself. But if you wanted to
have sex and you feel good about
having had it, then don’t let other
people rain on your parade.

To allow them to cast
shame on you is a surrender of
power. You no longer have con-
trol over your self—worth be-
cause someone else has deter-
mined how valuable you are as
a person. Each of us is valuable
simply because. We do not earn
value points as we do certain
things like you earn mileage
points on a credit card. You
should live for yourself and by
your own values. Living by any-
one else’s moral standards is to
not live as the person you were
created to be.

PHOTO TEY OF 1 I H ‘

THE RIGHT ANSWER? Can surgery really restore a woman’s virginity? The
controversial surgery promises a new start for women, but questions
about different standards for men and women remain unanswered.

Project

Emergency Hotline

540-463 -25 94

Avalanla 24 |IlI||l'8 8 day, 7 IIIIVS II WHK.

HIlI'iZﬂlI

Your ad could be here!

Contact phi—business@wlu.edu to place an ad.’

 

309 N. Win St.

]'_eXj_r1gt:or1, VA 24450

 

  

-44

]OHNHYl.Al\D
AssrrANrSPoRisEi)iroR
FMAII.-HYLAND]1@wwE)U

‘”fl~lERll\lG~1’UMl’I~ll

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

PORTS

PAGE 5'

Men’s lacrosse gets two doses of much-needed confidence

cat-like reﬂexes that are often re-

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

Finally, the scoring touch
has returned. After scoring a
combined 12 goals in their last
three games, the Generals needed
a rout to get them ﬁred up in the
early stages of the season. The
men played Colorado College on
Wednesday, more than doubling
their output in the last two games.
Ok, Colorado College isn’t ex-
actly top-10, but I think every-
one will agree with me when I ask,
“who cares?”

The Generals were led by
senior midﬁelder Dustin Martin,
who scored three goals and had
an assist, and his linemate senior
Mark McLewee, who notched
two goals and an assist. The end
of the first half indicated the
strides the team has made in just
a week, as they scored two goals
in the ﬁnal 1 1 seconds of the first
half. The ﬁrst tally came from Re-
naissance man, senior Rich Will-
iams, off a great feed from
Mcbewee. Irrirnediately after Wil-
liarns’ goal, junior midﬁelder Mike
Barracco won the draw cleanly
and, with the help of junior
attackman Bah “I take it strong
to the rack” Dy, exhibited what is
often called “the give-and—go.”
The Generals also got some much
needed scoring help from seniors

w.“..;¥¥U¥!l"-"

STEVEN MARINOS / TbeRirzgtumPbi

GETTING BACK ON TRACK. After a disappointing start to the season, the men’s lacrosse team began rebuilding its conﬁdence with two wins this past
Week. On Wednesday, the team easily defeated Colorado College 12-4, and on Saturday, the team won a tight won, 9-8, against Mary Washington.

Mike McNamara, Matt Fink,
Baracco, and junior midﬁelder Pat
Collins.

Senior Goalie Ansel Sanders
played another. . .ok you know
what, everyone knows he played

great game, so I’ll spare the art
here. As usual, Ansel turned
away shot after shot, totalling 9
saves on 12 shots (for you En-
glish majors, that’s a .750 save
percentage - very very good).

Lost in a myriad of great stories
— yet another great performance
from Ansel, renewed scoring con-
ﬁdence bolstered by Dustin and
McLewee’s goals — there is but
one story left to tell. Perhaps the

greatest story of the Colorado
game was the triumphant return
of former Feb—break all-star and
junior goalie Pat Casey. As we
all expected, when Pat was called
upon, he responded. With his

ferred to as “the best in the
game” and his incredible

celebratory gestures, he racked:

up 2 saves en route to a .667 save

percentage. That dirt, Pat, is off

your shoulders for good.

On Saturday, the Generals
hosted Mary Washington, the
last game before conference play
starts this upcoming Saturday.

The Generals, tied at 2 at halftime, 7

got out of the gates early in the

second half, roaring to a 5 goal‘

lead, only to see it shrink to one
as time expired. W&L scored 5

. .

unanswered in the ﬁrst 4: 16 of the A

game, but couldn't respond as
Mary Washington notched 3 of

their own, bringing the game un- _

necessarily close at 7-5. From'- 5'

here, Martin scored off a feed
from McLewee, but the Eagles (3-
2) got two in extra-man situations

to close the lead to one goal. After " V

another goal from senior
attackman Matt Fink, the Eagles
closed out the scoring with 23
seconds left. Ultimately, the Gen-
erals ran out the clock and es-
caped with a 9-8 win.

Fink paced the Generals with

4 goals and an assist, while se- ,
nior middie Mike Macnamara had '

a goal and dished out 4 assists.

‘The Generals need to maintain
this momentum as they look— j

ahead to their ﬁrst conference
game at Lynchburg on Saturday.

Baseball team remains undefeated in ODAC with three victories
Dean breaks another ODAC record

BY JOHN HYLAND
AssisTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L baseball team was busy last week,
playing four games in four days. However, the
Generals were up to the task, going 3-1, with all of
their wins coming in conference play, and drop-
ping their lone loss to Shenandoah in a non-con-
ference match-up. The team’s record now stands at
an impressive 13-5, 7-0 ODAC.

The Generals began their week with a home
game against Roanoke on Wednesday. The tum-
ing point in the game came in the bottom of the
sixth inning when starting pitcher Bryan Mulhem
helped his own cause by blasting a two—run homer
to centerﬁeld to give the Generals the lead. It was
the senior ’s fourth team-leading homer of the sea-
son. W&L would get the eventual game winning
run later in the inning with sophomore first baseman
Taylor McConnell’s solo home run to give his team

a 4-1 lead. Mulhem did the rest from the mound,
allowing two runs over seven innings to earn a 6-3
victory. Mulhem also led the way offensively, ﬁn-
ishing the game 2 for 3 with two RBIs and two runs
scored.

The team travelled to Shenandoah on Thurs-
day. The Generals again trailed in this game after
the Hornets scored in four-of the first ﬁve innings
to take a 4-0 lead, but the only offense W&L could
muster was Mu1hem’s two run single in the sixth.
Shenandoah scored three more runs in the eighth
to seal their third straight victory by the score of 7-
2. Junior catcher Zach Bausch and senior short-
stop Austin Allain had two hits a piece, but the
Generals mustered little additional offense. Senior
righthander Mike Wert suffered the loss to drop
his record to 2-3 on the year.

The Generals got back on track in Saturday’s
doubleheader against ODAC foe Eastern Menno-
nite at Cap’n Dick Smith Field. In the first game, the

Ritter, Ginder named All-Americans

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

ST. PETERS, Mo. — Senior Eric Ritter (Bir-
mingham, Ala./Mountain Brook) and freshman
Michael Ginder (Jacksonville, Fla./Episcopal)
both earned All-America
honors on Friday at the
NCAA Division III Swim
Championships held at
Principia College.

Ritter, seeded seventh
inthe 100-Back after setting
a school record in the mom-
ing preliminaries with a
51.32 clocking, touched the
wall in 51.07 in the finals to

 

America recognition for
the third straight season.

Ginder, seeded fifth
in the 200—Free after the
morning preliminaries,
ﬁnished fourth in the ﬁ-
nals with a school record
time of1:4l.13 toeamA1l-
America honors in his _ H
first season as a General. MICHEL GINDEK

On Thursday Ritter
placed 45th in the 50—Free preliminaries with a time
of 21.68 and Ginder placed 32nd in the 500—Free
preliminaries with a time of 4:43.50.

Both swimmers return to action tomorrow as
Ritter competes in the 200—Back and Ginder com-

  

Generals sent out senior pitcher Peter Dean, who

earlier in the year had become W&L’s career leader

in wins and was looking to become the ODAC’s
career leader. Dean did not leave
the record in doubt. The south-
paw scattered six hits and four
strikeouts over the complete
seven innings and did not allow
a run.

It was his second shutout and
fourth complete game of the sea-
son improving his record to an im-
pressing 6-0. Yet, the Generals
held a slim 1-0 lead entering the
fifth inning, but the team scored
twice in the fifth and once in the
sixth to give Deain a little breath-
ing room, with the ﬁnal score be-

 

In the nightcap, the Generals were once again
involved in a close game in the early innings. W&L
held a 1-0 lead when freshman leftﬁelder belted his
second home run of the year to
spark a four run inning, en route
to a 5-0 win. Once again, the Gen-
erals got a superb effort from the
mound as Kagey, an offensive
hero in Game 1, pitched a tliree—
hitter and earned his first
shoutout and complete game of
the season. The righthander

to 4-0 on the year. Garland fm—
ished the game 2 for 3 with an
RBI and a run. He was aided by
his classmate, designated hittter

   

mg 4-0. Offensively, the Generals
were led by sophomore second
baseman Scott Gosselink who
went 2 for 3 with an RBI and a run scored. Senior
leftﬁelder Dan Kagey went 2 for 3 with an RBI.

COUR Ts INFORMATION
SENIOR PETER DEAN.

with an RBI and two runs scored.

farmed six to improve his record .

David Miller, who went 2 for 4 i i

The first place Generals will get 7 -

their best ODAC test of the sea-

son when they travel to perennial power ,

Bridgewater on Wednesday.

Track competes at VCU Invitational

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

RICHMOND, Va. — The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s track and ﬁeld teams were in
action on Saturday afternoon at the VCU Ram In-
vitational where they competed against Division
I, H and HI Competition.

The W&L women’s team was paced by three
athletes who placed first among Division HI com-
petitors at the meet. Junior Emily Barker (Clifton,
Va./Mount Vernon) took home first place honors
in the shot put with a toss of 37 feet 0.01 inches, a
new. personal record. Senior Angel Daniels
(Charleston, S.C./Porter-Gaud) took top honors
in the high jump with a leap of 4 feet 10 inches,

Capistrano, Calif./Dana Hills) placed first in the 100
hurdles with a time of 16:40. Sophomore Mary Chris-
topher (Fort Lauderdale, Fla./Cardinal Gibbons)
rounded out the W&L leaders with a second place
showing in the 1,500 meters (5:02.20).

On the men’s side, junior Nathan Johnson
(Lexington, Va./Rockbridge County) placed third

V 4

among Division III competitor’s and fourth over- . -

all in the 5,000 meters with a 15:16.31 clocking.
Junior Chris Walker (Franklin, Mass./Paul VI) was

second among Division III athletes in the shot —

put with a toss of 11.93 meters, while senior
Jonathan Brimer (Dandridge, Tenn./Jefferson
County) ﬁnished second against D-III competi-
tion in the 100 meters (1 1.67).

Washington and Lee returns to action on Sat? ’

0 M Tennis at

I Swarthmore--11 :00

0 W Tennis vs. Redland --
10:00

9 Track at VCU Invita-
tional-- TBA

0 Golf at Camp Lejeune--
TBA

° Track at Bridgewater
Invitational-- TBA

finish seventh and earn A1l- petes in the 100-Free. while freshman Sara Behmerwohld (San Juan urday as it competes inthe Bridgewater Invitational.
THIS W EEK ’ s S CF EDULE
Tuesday, March 23 Wednesday, March 24 Thursday, March 25 Friday, March 26 Saturday, March 27 Sunday, March .28
0 Open 0 Baseball at 0 W Tennis vs. DePauw-- 0 Golf at Camp Lejeune- 0 Baseball at Virginia 0 W Tennis vs. Rhodes--
Bridgewater--3 :00 4:00 -T BA Wesleyan (DH )--1 2:00 12:00
0 W Lax at Bridgewater-- 0 M Lax at Lynchburg-- 0 M Tennis at Washing-
4:00 2:00 ton College--10:30
0 W Tennis vs. Santa 0 W Lax vs. Catholic-- 0 Golf at Camp Lejeune--
Cruz--4:00 2:00 TBA

 

 

    

PAGE 6

Sihirs

  MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

Tennis teams rack up wins to keep up ODAC records

Women’s tennis extends
near perfect record

BY JANE BEALL
STAFF WRITER

The Generals, rebounding from their heartbreak-
ing 4-5 loss to ﬁfth-ranked Denison University on
Sunday, swept their three ODAC opponents this
week, extending their conference record to 10-0.

The Generals easily handled Randolph-Macon
Women’s College 9-0 at home this past Tuesday,
with Liz Law, Ingrid Easton, Catherine Torrey Stroud,
and Laura Neller shutting down their respective
opponents without dropping a game. The squad
split on Thursday, taking on Randolph Macon away
while hosting Sweet Briar.

Neither opponent put up much of a ﬁght, both
falling to the Generals 9-0. Despite the team’s stead-
fast first-place ranking in the ODAC, sophomore
Patty Roberts noted that the in-conference matches
are often the hardest to play. “It’s easy to lose
focus and take these other teams for granted,” Rob-
erts said, “but I was impressed at the team’s sup-
port and enthusiasm throughout the entire week.”

On Saturday, the Generals played host to three
out of conference teams, overcoming all three with
little resistance. Patricia Brooks of Agnes Scott Col-
lege defeated junior Liz McCraken, playing in the
number one slot, wrestling away the only match given
up by the Generals the entire weekend. \V1th thee
forfeits, the Generals took the win 8-1. Kalamazoo
College fell next, 9-0. Number one Lindsay Hagerrnan
took her match 6- 1, 6-0 and then, with freshman part-
ner Ginny Wortharn won a close doubles match 8-6.

In their ﬁnal and most important competition
of the day, the Generals faced Mary Washington
College. A victory in this match was crucial to have

a chance to host the regional round of NCAA’s,
and stepping up to the challenge, the Generals
swept the 30th-ranked Eagles.

Looking ahead, Washington and Lee will host
the Fab Five tournament beginning this Wednes-
day at 4:00. Six top—twenty teams will come from as

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — Eighth-ranked Mary Washington used a 5-
3 halftime advantage to outlast 10th-ranked Washington and Lee, 7-
6, in non-conference women’s lacrosse on Saturday afternoon.

Following the mid-game break, the Generals (6-2) were first to
ﬁnd the net as senior midﬁelder Lee Wheeler (Baltimore, Md./Bryn
Mawr) scored her second goal of the game off an assist by senior
attacker Kelly Taffe (Charlottesville, Va./Albemarle) at 26:58 to make
it 5-4 in MWC’s favor.

The Eagles (4-2) responded at 19: 19 when freshman
midfielder Jackie Rose (Medford, N .J ./Shawnee) found the net
for her third goal of the day, this time off an assist by junior
attacker Britt Gottlieb (Middlebury, Vt./Phillips Academy) to
give MWC a 6-4 lead.

far as California and Massachusetts in this week-
long event. Sophomore Lisa Mabry commented,
“We’re really looking forward to the Fab Five. It’s
a really unique opportunity to play some of the
best competition from all over the nation and see
how you match up.”

Women’s lacrosse falls to Mary Washington

The Generals countered with a free position goal by freshman
midﬁelder Kelly Evans (Lexington, Va./Rockbridge County) at 18:51,
but freshman midfielder Stephanie Hearn (Kennebunk, Mainel
Kennebunk) pushed the Eagles’ lead back to 7-5 with a goal at 10:01.

Taffe converted an assist by Wheeler to pull W&L back within 7-6
with 1:06 remaining, but the Generals were unable to ﬁnd the goal again.

Wheeler and Taffe both recorded two goals and an assist for
W&L, while sophomore attacker Amanda Strickler (Lexington, Va./
Rockbridge County) and Evans each added one goal in the loss. Se-
nior J oarma Perini (Huntington, N .Y./I-Iuntington) recorded eight saves

in goal for the Generals.

Rose led the Eagles with three goals, while Gottlieb scored two
goals and dished out one assist. Sophomore Robyn Lankford (Fairfax,

Va./Fairfax) made 14 saves for MWC.

STEVEN os / TbeRing-tum hi
GETTING SET. Chris Kimmel, right, and K.C. Schaefer prepare for a serve in their 8-3 victory over Mary Washington
opponents. Although the mens’ tennis team lost to Mary Washington, it still remains undefeated in the ODAC.

Men’s tennis beats
Lynchburg, loses to
Mary Washington

BY JANE BEALL
STAFF WRIIER

Ranked 8th in the nation and first
in the ODAC, the men’s tennis team ex-
tended its undefeated conference
record to 5-0, sweeping Lynchburg Col-
lege away last Thursday. Washington
and Lee’s athlete of the week Paul
McClure won both his singles and
doubles matches, giving up only two
games in each. Sophomore Charles
Anderson defeated Lynchburg’s Matt
Greene in two sets, 6-0, 6-0.

Saturday’s match against the
Eagles from Mary Washington College
proved to be much more difficult.
Ranked 9th, a place behind the Gener-
als, the Eagles won four of the six singles
matches and one of the three doubles
matches. Sophomore David Shay and
senior Austin Kim were the only Gener-
als to chalk up singles victories.

Despite Sat11rday’s 3-4 loss, Shay is
optimistic. “Over the next few weekends
we have several really important matches
against teams like Swarthmore and Wash-
ington College,” he said. “I think the team, as a
whole, is playing really well right now and with con-
ﬁdence. Hopefully, we will be able to continue play-
ing well and win these big matches.” The Generals
will take a week off of match play before traveling
north to Swarthmore to take on the Garnet.

Courmasr SPORTS INroRMATroN

Gritter offers picks for this season’s top fantasy baseball sleepers

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRTIER

Fantasy baseball is rather unique from its foot-
ball and basketball counterparts because of player
development. The fact that certain players blos-
som while others do not is part of what makes the
beginning of the season so exciting. This fact is
also what ultimately determines the winners of fan-
tasy leagues across the nation. VV1th the amount
of positions and players out there, fantasy base-
ball requires one to pick the players on the
verge of breaking out (a.k.a. “sleepers”
for those of you who have no idea
what that is). Anyone can pick a
Pujols, Bonds, or A-rod. These
picks are obvious, but finding the
productive starter in the 12th
round of the draft is significantly
more challenging. There are far
too many sleepers out there for
all of them to be named, but I will
highlight a few names at each posi-
tion to look for in your time of need late
in the draft. . ...picks that will get you laughed
at initially and then praises (and paid?) at the end
of the season.

Catcher — At the catcher position there are
several producers, but because the list drops off
sharply it would not be a bad idea to take a guy like
Posada in the early rounds. If looking for one in
late rounds, have a look at Ben Molina of the An-
gels (.28 1-14-71) and Victor Martinez of the Indi-
ans. Martinez batted .289 in limited time last year
but will be the everyday starter this year and should

  

        
   
  
 

FANTASY
BASEBALL
PICKS

put up solid numbers. Also Greg Myers of the
Blue Jays (.307-15-52) will, at the least, bit for a
solid average. All three of these guys should last
until very late in the draft but should be fine for
starting.

First Base — First base is not a position where
you particularly want to wait and hope for a sleeper.
Try to get one of the many run-producing machines
at this position. If you are forced to make do with
a sleeper, you would be surprised how late David
Ortiz (that’s right. . ..the MVP Candidate) has been

going. Going one step down, Nick Johnson
won’t go high because of his lack of
power, but he was among the lead-
ers in the league in OBP last sea-
son while healthy. Mark Teixeira
will also be available, but would
really be more valuable as a third
baseman. (For more on Teixeira
see Third Base)
Second Base — At second base
there is surprising depth this year.
Marcus Giles, who is clearly one of
the top three offensive second
baseman could be left as late as the tenth
round, with Michael Young of the Rangers (.306-
14-72) available even later. For the late-round
backups, have a look at D’Angelo Jimenez of
the Reds and Orlando Hudson of the Blue Jays,
both of whom should build’ on their successful
breakouts last year.

Third Base — At third base is the greatest
sleeper in the draft in my opinion, Mark Teixeira.
Teixeira had very solid numbers last year (.259-26-
84) for a rookie with minimal time in the minors.

In The Country
4 Bedrooms
2 Baths
June 15,2005
1.5 miles on Rt. 60 East

“Jaws”

Daytime Phone: 540-463-5383
Nighttime Phone: 540-463-5654

House for Rent

Lease goes from June 15, 2004 to

spur‘ ..... on

    

1-.800-648--18:59 I wvm.s1:trmcL(om

What makes Teixeira even more attractive is his
steady improvement throughout the season. For
much of the year he sat around the .240 mark, but
seemed to figure out major league pitching in the
last month or so, raising his average and power
production dramatically. Teixeira has dominated
each level he’s been in quickly and there is no rea-
son to think that things should be any different in
the majors. Beyond Teixeira there aren’t many qual-
ity sleepers. Sean Burroughs of the Padres (and
the 1991 and 1992 Little League World Series
Champs) could be a great pickup if his power con-
tinues to develop. Eric Munson of the Tigers will
only be improving as the lineup strengthens and
gains experience.

Shortstop — Many quality, young shortstops
will be available in late rounds and will provide a
solid solution if you don’t happen to be fortu-
nate enough to get one of the top four or five.
Angel Berroa had a spectacular rookie season
(.287-17-73) and should become one of the top
offensive shortstops next year. Alex Cintron had
a breakout year (.317-13-51) for the Diamond-
backs and can also be played at third, which
makes him a great late pick as a backup, if not as
a starter. Jose Reyes is hardly a sleeper anymore
but would be a good pick if still available late. If
you get really desperate, rookies Bobby Crosby
of the A’s and Tyler Greene of the Padres should
provide solid production in a backup role.

Outfield — Some of the sleepers this year in
the outﬁeld will come in the form of big names look-
ing for comeback years, such as Shawn Green,
Lance Berkman, and Juan Gonzalez. As for lesser
known players, Milton Bradley (.32l- 10-56) will be

available late and is a budding superstar, as is Corey
Patterson (.298-13-55). Marlon Byrd will be solid
as he hits for more power, and look for Jody Gerut
and Austin Keams to drop to late rounds as well.

Starting Pitcher — It isn’t necessary to dip
into the average starters this year as plenty will
be available late to build a solid staff. Roy Oswalt
of the Astros has been going much later than he
should, and his teammate Tim Redding is also a
solid pick. A.J. Burnett seems to be back to full
strength for the Marlins, and C.C. Sabathia has
gone surprisingly late for a young, hard throw-
ing ace. Joel Piniero of the Mariners and Brian
Anderson of the Royals should both be very
solid starters available after the 10th round. Look
at Jeremy Bonderrnan of the Tigers, who devel-
oped well last season while getting pounded, and
Matt Riley, who should win the 4th slot in the
Orioles rotation.

Relief Pitchers — The closer position can
get people into trouble, since there simply aren’t
that many available. Danny Kolb of the Brewers
and Mike MacDougal of the Royals both will be
late picks that should get plenty of saves. One
must also remember that Shawn Chacon of the
Rockies will become their closer, and after fifteen
days will be listed as one, so if you have that
sort of time he would be a fantastic pick up in
late rounds. Chacon might even be available with
your last pick so look for him if you need pitch-
ing. Jorge Julio of the Orioles should also get
plenty of saves, as he did last year collecting 36.
Danys Baez of the Devil Rays is playing for a
crappy team, which should make his save count
all the more plentiful. ‘

Support

Athletics

Generals’

with the program!

_wwiAL.;amnus_f_undraisenc_om

Fraternities -- Sororities

Clubs -- Student Groups
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event. Our
free programs make fundraising easy with no
risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get
"It works.
CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238, or visit

Contact

    

)'

 

 

PAGE 7

Students deal with terrorism as they

BY SARAH MURRAY
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

With terrorism appearing to be on the
rise across the world, government agencies
are advocating caution in traveling over-
seas. But Washington and Lee students
going abroad this spring term refuse to be
daunted by the threat of a possible terror-
ism attack.

“Tragedy should make us aware, not
afraid,” said junior Timothy Waddell.

In an email to students going abroad,
Director of International Education William
Klingelhofer called the events a “grim re-
minder that terrorist attacks can occur any-
where, at any time, despite the vigilance of
our own or other countries.” Klingelhofer
assured students that they “anticipate no
significant changes in the program’s itin-
erary or activities.”

Sophomore Kristin Evans was relieved
to hear that her trip to London has been
arranged so that students will not take the
Underground during rush hour. As a re-
sult, Evans, who is studying theater, will
see plays during the day and on weekdays.
But while the precautions have eased her
anxiety, it doesn’t completely erase the
possibilities of an attack.

“What ifl walk into a train station and
it blows up? What do I do?” asked Evans.
Evans had planned to visit Spain during

iikmiiipiét

her stay in England, but has decided in the
wake of the Madrid attack to visit only Paris
and Ireland.

Kate Zawyrucha, a sophomore bound
for Spain, isn’t as concerned. Zawyrucha

lives near New York City and has faced more

than just a slight threat of terrorist attack.
“I guess I’m kind of desensitized...it’s not
going to faze me,” said Zawyrucha.

Zawyrucha also plans to travel to Rus-
sia over spring break with the wind en-
semble and to Denmark next fall. Several of
the areas she will visit have been bombed
in the past year, but she has no trouble
keeping her sense of humor, saying, “I
guess it’s a good thing they make us get
insurance!”

Sophomore Courtney Harrison received
a shock when she heard about the bombing
in Madrid—her group had planned to meet
outside the train station that was bombed.
Harrison doesn’t believe that an event of
that magnitude will happen again while
they’re there, but the coincidence made her
“more conscious of the possibility.”

For Waddell, the tragedies throw into
sharper relief the politics of the situation.
Waddell is not concerned with the possi-
bility of an attack during his trip to En-
gland, but he is “more aware of what I’d
like to see change in the way that our coun-
try works and the way that we are viewed
around the world.”

LIFE

    

  

, ARlS&LIPEED1TOR.,..
mm m ,1.
MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004 . j 

prepare to travel abroad

STUDY A BROAD? WZSCL students pose for a picture in front of Madrid’s Palace Real during a 1999.

“I don’t think it is necessary for us to
be frightened by in the least by terrorism,”
said Waddell. “It is far more likely that a
bee sting will kill you.”

The political effects also interest Pro-
fessor Troy Prinkey, who is leading the
group to Spain this term along with Pro-
fessor Cecile West—Settle. “The country
has suffered its most significant brush
with terrorism, and...has experienced a

Hull’s Drive-in Theatre celebrates ﬁfth season

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT ARTS 8: LIFE EDITOR

The year 2004 marks the
fifth season for Lexington’s
Hull’s Drive-In Theatre. Hull’s
is the first community owned,
non-profit drive-in in the
country.

The drive-in originally
opened on August 5, 1950. In
1957, the A
Hull family
bought the
drive-in and
ran it for the

edge the Angels. Last sea-
son there were 640 Angels.
The drive-in wants people to
be aware of who makes the
drive-in work.

On Saturday, March 27,
Hull’s Drive—In will show its
annual sneak preview to all
Angels ati7 p.m. This year,
Finding Nemo will be shown.
“This is the test run of the sea-

clubs to Lexington to partici-
pate in the parade, but any car
is welcome.

During the first three
years _of operation, Hull’s
drive—in did well and made ex-
tra money. Last year, how-
ever, Hull’s took in a loss.
Sheffield attributes the lower
attendance to the large
amount of rain. The number
of rainy weekends
in 2002 was eight,
but in 2003 it rose

result of the loss

next forty of revenue, Hull’s
years. will be raising
With the ticket prices this
death of season to $5 for a
Sebert Hull double feature.
in 1998, Opening
came the night is April 2.
death of the Hull’s will be

drive-in. A
group of
Rockbridge
citizens, led
by Eric and
Elise Sheffield, formed the
non-profit group, Hull’s An-
gels in1999. The only require-
ment to becoming a Hull’s An-
gel and part owner of the
drive-in is to pay an annual
fee of $5.

In commemoration of five
years in business, a three
minute film will be shown at
the beginning of each night.
It will show the history of the
drive-in and then acknowl-

 

son, so nothing is guaran-
teed,” said Elise Sheffield,
Secretary of the Hull’s Angels
Board of Directors.

The third annual Opening
Weekend Car Parade, hosted
by Hull’s, will kick off season
five on Saturday, April 3. “In
Spain, there is the running of
the bulls, in Lexington, there
is the running of the
Chevrolets,” said Sheffield.
Hull’s wants to bring in car

s h o w i n g
Cheaper by the
Dozen followed
by Master and
C 0 m m a n d e r .
Sheffield said that she was
unsure if The Passion of the
Christ would be coming to
the drive—in, but she believes
that it will come to the screen,
if not from the Angels, then
by a church group.

Hull’s would love for stu-
dents to get involved with the
drive—in. To become a Hull’s
Angel or to check out what
will be playing at the drive-in,
go to www.hullsdrivein.com.

to eighteen. Asa

      
 

Home for  le

4 N. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON, VA

Built circa 1880 an Institute Hill, now completely restored with
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors.

4 Bedrooms, 1 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new
kitchen plus a large utility/ofﬁce Room. Large third ﬂoor
storage room and an attached outside storage area.

Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls on
terraced landscaping.

Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping.
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly.
Asking $229,000.

(540) 464-3738
or
(540) 460-47 1 8

Tom James Company

Interviews?
lntemship?
Special occasion?

Let ushelp you look and feel
your best!!

Custom and Ready Made Suits
and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories

Student Packages &
Gi t Certi icates Available

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or
with questions

540-815-4557

Adam.Williams@tomjamesretail.com

Parking a problem for W&L students*-

major political shift,” said Prinkey, refer-
ring to the Madrid bombing and the fol-

lowing change of power between major }:.

political parties. “It will be interesting to
gauge the everyday Spaniard’s opinion on
both issues.”

“This is going to be an exceptional mo-
ment for us to be in Spain, and I hope our

students are looking forward to it as much 

as I am,” Prinkey said.

Administration must take steps to make parking easier and safer

BY KATE GUY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

It’s 9:45 on a weekday morning.
Fifteen cars with C stickers are cir-
cling the floors of the Parking Ga-
rage like vultures, hoping to catch
one person leaving a spot open. As
usual, no spots open, and the cir-
cling cars are forced to park outside

.of the Garage. . , .

Back when the Lenfest lots were
available, this was not a serious
problem. However, with the continu-
ing removal of countless parking
spots around campus, students are
forced to park in residential areas of
town. They then have to walk to
class, which would not have been a
problem had
they left 15
minutes ear-
lier. But as
they don’t find
a place to park
until 10:00,
they arrive ten
minutes late,
d i s r u p t i n g
their teachers
and fellow stu-
dents. The
lack of spots
in the Parking
Garage is a
problem that
needs to stop.

The most course ‘there
important is- needplacestopark,buttherearenotas are ‘A Slmple . .
sue ‘in the many spots availabel» solution would
parkmg Ga_ be to relocate

rage is the lack

of enforcement. People with no
stickers or with stickers that don’t
allow Parking Garage access park
there regularly. If Security would
enforce its own rules and ticket or
tow those who are illegally parked
during peak class hours, illegal park—
ing would decrease.

People who live in town, or in the
fraternity houses are not supposed
to park in the Parking Garage. While
I understand that bad weather or
oversleeping can make a morning
walk to the hill less than a desirable
prospect, keep in mind that by driv-
ing to class you are taking spots
from people who need them since
they cannot walk to class.

By allowing students who live in
town and people unaffiliated with the
University who use the gym to park
in the Parking Garage, Security is
contributing to the problem. Simple
enforcement would cause an imme-
diate decline in illegal parking, since
no one wants to pay a ticket or, even
worse, towing fee. Also, those who

illegally park in Handicapped spots.

should be ticketed/towed as well.
People who need Handicapped spots
can’t have them. '

“One of the basic laws of algebra states that
What you do to one side of an equation you
must do to the other in order to maintain
equilibrium. This being said, you‘can’t take
away parking spots Without providing new.
ones. With the closure of the Gaines overﬂow
lot came an inﬂux of new people into the
Parking Garage. Now the closure of the
Lenfest lots and the train station have taken
away the convenient spots forthose students
who are unable to park in the Garage. There
are still just as many students with cars who

One of the basic laws of algebra
states that what you do to one side of

an equation you must do to the other‘
in order to maintain equilibrium. This » _
being said, you can’t take away park— 

ing spots without providing new ones.
With the closure of the Gaines over-

flow lot came an influx of new people ii‘:

into the Parking Garage. Now the clo-
sure of the Lenfest lots and the train
‘station have taken away the conve-
nient spots for those students who are
unable to park in the Garage. There are

still just as many students with cars :5’

who need places to park, but there are
not as many spots available.

Another concern in the Parking Ga-
rage is safety. How many of us have

narrowly avoided head-on collisions '
with other students as we both come~:~

speeding along

one has been
‘seriously
jured yet.
simple installa-

or traffic lights
could prevent
crashes inside
the Garage.

i A r i e
there any solu-

the University

vans that eat up spots on the top floor._-_-,
Why do they need to live in the Garage? " ‘ ’

Move them out to the Duchossois/Ru-
ins lot. This way they are still on cam-

pus and accessible to those who need 

them, but are not taking up spots
needed for student parking.

Another solution would be to re-
open the Woods Creek parking lot. The
trailers there are no longer necessary,
as Mock Con is over and Reid Hall is
completely refurbished. Move them
out, and move the Woods Creek resi-

dents in. Not only is this a shorter walk  .

for them, it also opens up a large num-
ber of spots in the Parking Garage.

Similarly, Sorority House staff members _
should use the Freshman Lot, as it isi-In

about the same distance from the
houses and would open up several
spots in the morning.

It is hard to imagine what life on 

campus was like prior to the construc-
tion of the Parking Garage just four years
ago. I appreciate that its construction
has done wonders for the parking situ-
ation on campus. However, these are

dressed and changed for the physical
and academic well-being of students on
campus.

 

in opposite di- i:.:
rections? It’s a ' '
miracle that no,

in-.:.:
The’-'

tion of mirrors ,- -

tions to these_. __
problems? Of ’ "

serious problems that need to be ad- j-;—

 PAGE 8 E

 

Don’t be an a—hole. As many of the girls
that live with me in the sorority house well

‘- know, this has become one of my favorite

mottos by which one should live. Think
about it. It is the perfect combination of
the two‘ golden rules: ‘Treat others as you
would wish to be treated,’ and -‘Don’t treat
others as you would not wish to be treated,’
or, in short, just don’t be an a—hole.
Having said this much, there is a par-
ticular kind of a-holery that
has come to my attention,
which I would like to address.
Here’s the situation: boy B
meets girl G at fraternity X.
Boy B and girl G are obviously expressing

'- an interest in each other that may lead to
further activities later on in the evening.

However, the process is interrupted by boy
B’s rude, inappropriate, drunken fraternity
brothers who have made the decision to
loudly tease and. heckle the couple, graphi-
cally describing the instinctual process of
fornication in the most" demeaning and dis-

respectful way possible. I fail to understand,

why anyone would think this is a good idea.
The only explanation I could come up with,
was that people just don’t think before they
speak or act. Therefore, it is my duty to

‘ _ enlighten all the frat boys that have ever

engaged or thought to engage in such dis-

 
 
 

 

. e orig

THE NAKED TRUIH
_CouRiNEY PERRY ‘04

THERr\ic~TuiviPHi

THE AST ORD

 Social criticisms and confessions from a nude model

All The naked truth part II: lessons on learning how to maintain a basic conversation and why it can greatly enhance your luck with Washington and Lee women

tasteful behavior, as to what sorts of con-
sequences may be expected. Then you may
judge for yourself as to whether or not this
action is a good idea.

Plainly put, such offensive remarks are
going to either infuriate or embarrass girl
G. This will, in turn, reflect unpleasantly
on boy B and severely decrease the likeli-
hood of his furthering their relationship,
intimately or otherwise. Boy B is then go-
ing to get pissed at said fra-
ternity brothers for not only
destroying his chances of
satisfaction (from stimulat-
ing conversation, of
course), but surely for embarrassing him
by association. After all, who would wish
to be part of an organization that out-
wardly displays such exhibitions of crass-
ness? And, if girl G is mortified enough,
she may not return to fraternity X, taking
her friends with her. And everyone knows
there’s nothing less cool than a frat party
with no girls.

Sadly, this is just one of infinitely many
examples of fraternity a-holery. I feel as
though I am constantly surrounded with
men complaining about women and how
awful and complicated they are. Here’s a
hint: women are not stuck-up, prudish and
cold. They are stuck-up, prudish and cold

 

   

MEGANMORGAN
ARis &Lii=EEoiroR

EMAi;M()RoANiii@wiuEu_J

to you. And you wonder why with such
aforementioned behavior? But, fear not——
your situation can be exponentially im-
proved. Rather than sitting at home, pon-
dering women and why they won’t go out
with you, or getting angry about it and send-
ing childish Quick Hits to the Phi about how
awful girls are and im— -
plicitly expressing
your blatant sexual
frustration and loneli-
ness to the entire cam-
pus, here is my sug-
gestion: why don’t
you try being pleas-
ant?

Start by talking to
your love interest——
the key is to do so with no ulterior motives,
but rather because you enjoy her conver-
sation. There are some hysterical women
on this campus whose quick wit and sharp
intellect offer greater and longer lasting
enjoyment than any one night stand. Be-
sides, if you don’t expect anything, you
may be pleasantly surprised. And if you
would like for her to be equally surprised
by you, then perhaps you might work on
improving your persona. Throw some hu-
mor in the conversation. Find some com-
mon interests. And for heaven’s sake at

 

...wretched people are not worth
the time of decent people, and
decent people will eventually find
other decent people with whom
they may couple, even if it takes
some time."

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

least feign some modesty! If you are un-
controllably compelled to boast of your
own achievements to a female audience,
save it for your mother. On the contrary,
flatter your potential partner by express-
ing a curiosity in her achievements, inter-
ests or background. Be courteous and

“ polite and she will react
ppsitively. Be interesting
and engaging and she will
react attentively with an in-
cited interest.

Of course, the necessary
disclaimer here must ac-
knowledge that, yes, in fact,
there are some wretched
people out there of both the
male and female sexes who
will not react positively no matter how kind
or friendly one tries to be. And, yes, there
are plenty of “nice guys” who have done
their best to maximize their appeal and have
yet to find female affection. All I can say to
this is that wretched people are not worth
the time of decent people, and decent people
will eventually find other decent people with
whom they may couple, even if it takes some
time. No one is perfect, but some are closer
than others. Ideals of perfection can be sub-
jective, but there is one form to which we
can all strive: don’t be an a—hole.

What the Hell’s a Ring—tum Phi?

   

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 Fie Edit new Actions Tools window Help V. p , I
4:: $v‘3"«:.'t~;  i R ma . .
shin‘  3: 4 «ea J ‘E’; *3 § Sm d Ewe? =‘= "ms 3 5 H W V ' (Reprinted from Sept. 20, 1979 the Ring-tum
e ing— um I gm 3;; ¢  . . .
<93/yiE—'l‘£"-"<l= 5  i    Re: Does exercise hfluence GPA? S04 3121104 051059” g _>  '2 Phl’ repnnted from the Dec‘ 5’  Issue)
 Calendat Heather Hart Re: Does exercise influence EPA? 3408 3/18/04 09:08PM
33 Sent items [I _ ha : .
:3 Documents :°::1°' _"‘°‘:""° ':‘”_  :31 3;]: ‘; ‘;:_:::': Back in the days when telephones (all
ask List a erine ang e. _ _ .  f th . Le . d . t
ark In progre 5 Samuel Nickles Re: Does exercise inﬂuence GPA? 3209 3/ 18/04 09:07PM 0 cm In xmgton! an a Venlsemen
 cabinet Carl Howard Re: Does exercise inﬂuence GPA?  3/ 18/04 09:06PM boasted) WCIC kn0WI1 as “up-to—date elec-
9, - - -, : - 7 . .
3 Trash Kristin ounglnluod Re Does exercise inﬂuence GPA. 3/18/04 09:06PM trlc can bells,” back when Steahng a bell_
Gabrielle Harris Re: Does exercise Inﬂuence GPA? 3925 3/ 18/04 09:06PM “ ’
J Stephen z,,d,,,,, 3205 WM 991,5,” 5 clapper was called a naughty-one s
 .  — ’ " ' v ' frolic,” in the same year that the New York
I l of 3  Re: Does exercise influence GPA? P05! COIlfCI'I'Cd on this  (really) thC 

  

 

  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  

From: Andrew Latirner

To: The Ring-tum Phi

Date: 3,l21/D4 05:05PM

Subject: Re: Does exercise inﬂuence GPA?

Subject: Does exercise inﬂuence GPA ?

I'm naked

the beloved & now-infamous christina websters 22nd
birthday is in four days on'march 21st, be sure to

_ Can we please stop?

Cocaine is a hell of a drug

It all began innocently enough with a simple survey e-mail from a sociology project group:

The purpose of this survey is to determine if exercise and healthy eating have a positive correlation with GPA. They
survey is being conducted with SurveyPro. Just click on the link provided in the email to take the survey. All answers
given will be anonymous. This way data will be kept confidential. Do not answer any questions that make you feel
uncomfortable. You can end your participation at any time.
Thank you for participating in this survey!

J onn Rizzo, Louisa Feve, Amanda Strickler, Virginia Baird and Cristina Garcia

Roughly 208 responses later, the entire student body was reeling from overﬂowing inboxes as sender after sender took
his or her respective tum hitting the “reply all” button and spewing their thoughts to 1,900 peers. Several users’ accounts were
suspended for violating University Computing’s mass mailing policy, but their delayed response meant that quite a few choice
opinions rriade their way to all of our screens. The Phi presents a few verbatim selections below, with the names removed

 

“Athens of the South," 1897-— there came
into being a little newspaper published
weekly, “by the students for the Wash-
ington and Lee community,” and named
after the most popular of that University’s
football cheers: “Ring-tum Phi.”
“Coincident with the administration of
President Wilson begins the career of a new
publication at Washington and Lee, the
Ring-tum Phi. The Ring-tum Phi is a weekly
journal and presents a pleasing appearance.
It meets a distinct need in the University
and relieves the Collegian of what formerly
has tended only to clog and retard.”
Eighteen and ninety—seven. The year
of the Great Hell Scandal. It seems the very
first editor-in-chief, George Houston, in the
fourth issue of the neophyte newspaper,
published a column of “Football Songs,”
one of which concluded with this verse:

“Let’s give a rousing, rumbling, roar-
ing football yell.

“Ring-tum Phi, stickeri bum,

“&c, &c.”

Well, hell broke loose. The next issue,
an incensed letter-to—the-editor writer (we
told you things haven’t changed much) said:

“There appeared in the columns of the
Ring-t11m Phi, last week, a song which, to
the thoughtful person had very little to rec-
ommend it. . . . The only thing that I can see
that would have recommended it to the edi-
torial eye is the little smack of naughtiness
which makes the first rhyme in the last verse.

“The Editor seems to be filled with
pride to even know that author; he puts
the verse in the first column of his news-
paper and writes an editorial commending
it as ‘especially good.’ He says the words
tire the voice very little.

“Now everyone, who knows anything
of the subject, knows that the sound of that
‘h’ has a very rasping effect on the vocal
chords. How much better would have been
hadtheline read: ‘And yell right well, boys.’ It
would have sounded better, been easier on
the voice, and would have saved the writer
and Editor from showing off their weakness.

“It can be admitted that, to some eyes,
there is something worthy of admiration

 
  
   
  
   
 

written in the trident

eath other in the dugout

wish her a happy birthday and thank her for starting
something a hell of a lot funnier than everything

oh and also... instead of saving buffalo whatever
lets get a pool going to pay ﬁnk & mulhern ﬁnally
fulﬁll my fantasy: the two of them gettin it ON with

INFOGRAPHIC BY ANDREW LATIMER/ TheRing-tum Phi

kiss me I'm Irish

tina meet me third ﬂoor pi phi tonight

was that a booty call written at 6:56???? I think
it was...i feel a walk of shame coming at about 9
AM tomorrow in the quad...be there (bring your

green hat)

I wonder if everyone can read this?

“Each other’s back, boys,
“Has got a knack, boys,
“For making the gains, sir,
“Round the end,

“And it’s a sin, sir,

ful hard.
_  “Then join the yell, boys,

 

.éi4aI:eiZsize;1:in% A lSeiec!:ed:l

'‘  v._—!,.:é%‘:12t'»ga_i>hn.:." ~,*r»ie~ei:».;rc.«i..

Efotal: 2898

 

“And yell like hell, boys,
“Sure enough, ,

“To W&L U., boys,

“And foot—ball, too, boys,

 

“For Oberlin [a W&L player], sir,
“'To buck the VMI boys’ line so aw-

in a dark, purple crime, but to bow before a
sinlet like this is weakness personiﬁed.

“In the future let me suggest that the
Editor follow the path of virtue. He will not
only ﬁnd it pleasant, but may keep himself
from showing his lack of taste. —— R."

Well,  intimidated Mr. Houston.
Who wouldn't be intimidated if he were
editing a brand—new paper that nobody,
not even students, had ever heard of,
named the Ring-tum Phi; and somebody
came along and accused him of printing
sinlets right on his front page?

“is

Q It’s only a matter of time the Cadavers give in

 

to the pressure of springtime in the South and paint g

the entire campus pink and green.

(1) I’m plarming an Ignorance—is-Bliss Campaign.
My ultimate goal is to create a monologue.

Q Would the person who keeps the box of Nilla
Wafers in the English Lounge like to share?

Q I don’t care what anyone says, keep wearing
those muscle shirts, boys. I love seeing you in them,
especially you, Matt Watson.

Q I love Natalia Maxwell. She is the best girl-
friend ever.

Q Hats off to all the pledges of Pi Kappa Phi and
Mother Alpha who actually stuck out all eight
weeks without complaining like a little girl.

Q If the Phi is going to be including articles from
porn stars, can’t it at least get Jenna Jameson?

Q To the couple talking every weeknight in the
Gilliam stariwell at 4:00 a.m., please find a new place
to chat, or learn sign language. —the kid in boxers
with a hairy chest '

Q When will the Trident stop running that stu-
pid “frat of the Week” column, which has yet to
name a single frat.

Q Reason #3 Gilliam is better than Graham-Lees:
Steve Martinenza is rumored to live here, although
it hasn’t been confirmed.

Q More reasons Gilliam is better than Graham-
Lees: #4— Steve Martinenza is rumored to be a dorm
counselor in Gilliam. #5— Navigation through hall-
ways doesn’t require a map and compass.

Q Still more reasons Gilliam is better than Gra-
harn-Lees: #6— When we drink too much, the Health
Center is right below us. #7- We have Andrew
Gulotta.

Q Is the Juice worth the squeeze?

Q Boo hoo . . . I can’t get laid so I’m complaining
about the girls.

Q Who will the Sigmas initiate if all the Big 4
disappear? '

Q Just to clarify, Lalli and the rest of the skull
pledges suck. Quit writing yourselves into Quick
Hits every week. Losers. Go cry to Mama.

Q My friend asked me if I wanted a frozen ba-
nana, and I was like, “No, but I want a regular ba-
nana later so, yeah.”

Q www.goshentheband.com —Enough said.

Q The Karl Denson concert this year was more
enjoyable for me than anything I have ever read in
the Phi. '

Q Will Scott Pittman please stop submitting self-
ﬂattering Quick Hits?

Q If you cannot take a little hazing, why would
you join a fraternity? And who turns his frat in? I
mean, honestly, all you have to do is quit. Don’t
screw the rest of the frat that is man enough to
take it.

Q The Co—op should open at noon on Sunday.

Q Kudos to all the sports teams that were so suc-
cessful Saturday afternoon. Mary Washington
stinks!

Q Today in Virginia history: In 1622, 347 English
settlers were killed by Algonquian Indians near
Jamestown in what has since been labeled the
Jamestown Massacre.

Q Don’t forget, this Friday, the 26th, to come to
Lambda Chi to celebrate Jeb Brooks’ 2 1 st birthday
with Monticello Road.

Q Similarly: Happy Birthday to W&L alumnus
Pat Robertson who turns 74 today.

Q Quick Hits is dead, long live the Quick Hits.

Q If you didn’t go to see Jonah Goldberg, you
really missed out. He was spectacular.

Q Congratulations to Laura Byme for her ap-
pointment to student head of the Catholic Campus
Ministry.

Q Stay away from our parties. Townies, go home!
Oh wait, never mind.

Q Keep your danm e—mails to yourself. Learn the
*&% @ *l difference between “Reply to Sender”
and “Reply to All” already.

Q Get well soon, Paris. All of us at the Phi are
pulling for you. Send that horse off to the glue
factory. '

<1> This in not the only Quick Hit written by Jeb
and Brett this week.

d) E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and com-
plaints about exams and term papers to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

,0

 

 

