X

 

J.

PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee decision makers have
hesitated to make a minor calendar change that
would protect students’ safety, despite advocat-
ing change in other recent issues that have been in
the limelight.

Last year, Cullum Owings died in a car acci-
dent on his return to school after Thanksgiving.
The traffic of I-81 on the busy Sunday after
Thanksgiving predominantly contributed to his
death. ,

The Washington and Lee administration has
focused on calendar issues other
than this, such as spring term and
the faculty teaching load and de-
laying students’ return from
Thanksgiving break has largely
been ignored.

Several administrators ini-
tially reacted toCullum’s accident
by talk of delaying students’ re-

We agreed that the
safety consideration is
important but could be

handled by students
returning on Saturday

 ASmNGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

T/re rtr/derri mice of War/rirgton and Lee Urrirerrin time 7897

After accident, administration
may rethink student break time

Dittman said that starting school on a
Wednesday “doesn’t help those departments (sci-
ences, music) which really need that Monday after
Thanksgiving, especially because of the end—of-
term activities which can’t be accommodated merely
by adding a day in September.”

Provost Williams mentioned a possible T‘ues-
day through Saturday week after Thanksgiving
break as another alternative. “We have done this
in the past” he said, when students returned very
early in January from Christmas Break.

According to Provost Wiliarns, student con-
cerns and suggestions are appreciated, but the
most efficient method would be through an orga-
nized group, “This is not a closed
issue.”

Some colleges have adapted
their schedules so that students
avoid the horrible traffic on the
Sunday after Thanksgiving. VMI
begins classes on that Tuesday.

Baptist Bible Colege and Semi-
nary in Pennsylvania also begins on

turn. Former Provost Boetsch S "mesday Mmigan University in mi-
asked SCOH Dittman. the Regis- D nois changed their schedule to start
trar and previous head of the Re g- UNTVER-WIYREGUTRAR classes at 4 pm on Monday after two

istration and Class Schedule

Committee, to determine if a

change was possible. The committee discussed
calendar changes in emails, but they made no de-
cision and never presented the issue to the fac-
ulty.

“We recommended that the Provost not consider
a change to the calendar,” said Dittman. “We
agreed that the safety consideration is important
but could be handled by students returning on
Saturday.”

Provost Williams sees lots of options that
could prevent students from returning on the
heavily traveled Sunday after Thanksgiving. One
simple alternative would move the beginning of
school from Thursday to Wednesday and start
classes after Thanksgiving break on Tuesday. Stu-
dents would still have the same number of classes.

students died while returning to cam-
pus the Sunday after Thanksgiving.

Vﬁth so many cars on the road, driving is dan-
gerous anywhere the Sunday after Thanksgiving,
but the poor conditions on I-81 make this trip more
risky for W&L students.

I-81 is one of the top eight truck routes in
the U.S. Instead of the intended 15 percent truck
traffic, trucks now represent 20 percent to 40 per-
cent of the traffic in various areas. a _

Specifically, the Salem and Roanoke portion
of I-81 carries 50,000 to 52,000 vehicles daily, 2_1
percent of which are large trucks.

‘The traffic worsens closer to W&L. From
Roanoke to the I-64 juncture in Lexington, truck
congestion rises to 32 percent, and it increases
two percent more on the overlapping I-81 and I-64
section.

VOLUME 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

PEI

WE’RE FAMOUS!

What’s new? During a rare moment of peace over Parent’s Weekend, this mother took the time to catch
up on Washington and Lee news by reading the campus’ oldest newspaper, The Rzhg-tum P/Ji. Parents
were registering for Parent’s Weekend events and getting information about school activities such as

pmock con in the Elrod Commons Friday morning. We hope she enjoyed her Pbi-time.

 

 i<s/ ‘IT-IE -TUM PHI

University trying to keep peace with Lexington
as it beginsyet another construction project in town held Halloween

CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

The Lexington Planning
Commission recently voted 3 to
1 to allow Washington and Lee
to continue with their plans for
the new art and music building.

“We want to have a posi-
tive relationship with the city.
This means going the extra mile
with the residents,” said Joe
Grasso, Vice President of Adniin-
istration. He went on to say that
this new relationship with the
city would be as partners, not
only in construction, but also in
the early stages when ideas are
formulated.

Washington and Lee has
formed the Construction Mitiga-
tion Committee that consists of a
representative from the Planning
Commission, two neighborhood
representatives; a representative
from the contractor and from the
University’s project management
team; and two representatives
from the University.

The Committee plans on
meeting monthly and has sev-
eral functions. The committee
will review construction mitiga-
tion plans, suggest additional
mitigation measures, provide
announcements to the neigh-
bors, schedule public meetings,
provide direct feedback to the
University on any non-compli-
ance issues on the part of the
contractor, facilitate coordina-
tion with the city, review the sta-
tus of requests submitted by
residents, prepare a quarterly re-
port to the mayor of Lexington
and President Burish, and pro-
vide a dispute resolution
mechanism.

“In order to provide the
neighbors of the Lenfest Center
with some assurance that the
University understands their

concerns and is committed to ad-
dressing these issues, we have
prepared a Construction Mitiga-
tion Plan to govern construction
activity for this project,” said
Grasso.

The Construction Mitigation
Plan strives to achieve several
goals. A construction traffic plan
will be developed to avoid the use
of some streets. Washington
and Lee will have traffic control
personnel around the project
when there is heavy construction
trafﬁc. They will direct tiafﬁc and
ensure workers are not using 10-
cal streets. ‘ T h e
University will assume the yearly
cost for a trafﬁc control person.
Traffic Control Ofﬁcers, when not
engaged with traffic, will provide
litter clean up, street clean up,
and minor property repair.

Construction workers will
park in a perimeter parking lot
away from the city. The Uni-
versity will provide a shuttle
service to the workers and is-
sue special parking stickers to
construction workers. Con-
struction trucks will be hosed
down periodically to reduce
dust. The University will repair
any damage to neighboring
properties that results directly
from the construction project.

Periodic meeting with
neighbors will be planned and
an Art and Music hotline will
be established where residents
can call one person at Wash-
ington and Lee to receive a
quick reply and reasonable re-
sponse.

The administration believes
the key to making sure that the
parking garage serves the needs
of the expanded Lenfest Center
is for the University to actively
manage, communicate, and en-
force its parking policies. T h e
University is letting Lenfest pa-
trons know that they should

 

JEB BRooi<s/ THE RiNc-TUM PHI

New building? The University plans to build a new arts and music
building near where this historic train station stands. A Construction
Mitigation committee has been formed to hear the concerns of the
residents of Lexington in regards to construction. Many possibilities,
such as a shuttle service and additional fees, are being considered as
possible options.

park in the garage for Lenfest
events.

It is expected that Wash-
ington and Lee will lose 60
parking spaces as a result of
the art and music addition.
They will, however, be re-
placed. The Mod Hall trailers
will be removed in 2006. This
will create 50 additional park-
ing spaces for the residents
of Woods Creek who now park
in the parking garage.

The University will look
into demolishing the Howe
Annex once the Art and Mn-
sic building is completed. ‘

willing to consider the creation
of a shuttle service that would
transport students and employ-
ees from parking lots to the carn-
pus. The final option being con-
sidered involves parking permits.
The University currently charges
students a $25 registration fee for
having a car on campus.
Washington and Lee may
place additional fees on cars or
on the use of the parking garage
which could discourage people
from using the garage or other
designated parking areas. The
University could also install
swipe cards and readers at the

This would create 10 new park- parking garage, but this may al-
ing spaces. Over the next two ter use patterns in a negative
years, the University will try , way.

None of these options are
official at this time, as they need
careful examination before imple-
mentation.

to identify and create a new
50 car parking lot somewhere
on campus.

Washington and Lee is

Freshmen dorms

carnival for Lex

CATHERINE SWAIN
STAFF WRITER

Tiny firemen, princesses, and pumpkins wandered the halls of
the freshman dorms Wednesday afternoon trick-or-treating as part
of a Halloween Carnival for local youth.

Alpha Phi Omega, the campus co—ed community service frater-
nity, and Nabors Service League joined forces to make this first
carnival a reality. APO was responsible for organizing and funding
the event, while Nabors helped with publicity in the community.

Both organizations helped provide volunteers on the day of
the carnival. About 15-20 students volunteered on the day of the
carnival, but many more were responsible for planning and public-

' ity before the actually event.

The idea for a Halloween carnival
had been brought up in the past, but
the service leagues were not able to

The youth or

make it a reality until this year. Lexington is 3
APO President Laura Drewicz came group I think is

up with initial idea of a carnival for local

youth, and Nabors had wanted youth really undﬁrserved‘

to trick-or-treat in the dorms, so the two LAURA DREWKZ

organizations joined forces to put on one
large event.

“The youth of Lexington is a group I think is really
underserved,” said Drewicz.

Activities included pumpkin painting, face painting, a duck
pond, and a costume contest. The costume contest included

three age groups and had over 45 participants.

“All of the kids were adorable. One little boy came as a day-old
piece of pizza, and we had a young George Washington, Jack Spar-
row, and a lot of fairy princesses. It was so tough to choose the
winners!” said costume judge Robin Davis.

In addition to activities in the quad, volunteers also led chil-
dren through the dorms, where freshmen provided candy to eager
trick-or-treaters.

Approximately 50-60 children were in attendance along with
their parents and older siblings. Many neighborhood children came
for the event, as well as many professors’ children.

Both organizations were pleased with the high turnout, espe-
cially considering that Lexington businesses were also doing nick-
or-treating at the same time.

“I hope that APO and Nabors can continue this and make it a
new Lexington and W&L Halloween tradition. It’s just nice to give
back to the town that gives W&L students so much and to be able
to help out (even if for only one afternoon) the youth of Lexington,”
said Drewicz.

Last year, there was trick-or-treating in the freshmen dorms for
children of professors and of the community, but this marked the
first such major event held by N abors and APO

 

  

W‘~‘*?3*‘*itr§*7a~   uriarraqsiry

“P “ '7’-,*.J

friov o 

 

PAGE 2

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

N ‘:si£:l?.rs‘-:>':*..:.\:l’=—i

SPCA provides students service time Students and faculty

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF WRITER

It’s almost impossible to stem the ﬂood of incoming cats at the
Rockbridge County SPCA, but that doesn’t stop executive director

Jane Cornett from trying.

“We’ve distributed $32,000 in spay/neuter cer-
tiﬁcates since 1998,” said Comett. “But it doesn’t

seem to have made any difference.”

Cats are only a part of the responsibility of the
Rockbridge Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, which moved to its current location in 1993.
This non—proﬁt organization concerns itself with “the
welfare of all animals, both domestic and wild, in the

community.”

Like many other local shelters, Rockbridge’s
SPCA receives no state fimding. However, local fimd-

Because of all the coon
hunting and bear
hunting the county, we
get a large number of

Any animal over 5 years of age very seldom ﬁnds an adoptive home
and may be put down to prevent overcrowding.

Khady Mbaye, ‘05, co-founder of a new W&L group meant to
organize aid for the SPCA, said, “Everything possible is done to
avoid having to put the dogs down. For example, some dogs are
given obedience training.”

Cornett, who has worked at the shelter since it
occupied its former location in downtown Lexing-
ton, has grown accustomed to the effect of the area’s
culture on the facility. “Because of all the coon hunt-
ing and bear hunting the county, we get a large num-
ber of hounds...about 65% of our dogs,” she said.

Since the SPCA depends on help from the public,
there are several opportunities to support the center.

hounds Donations are always accepted, and for $25 patrons
JANE CORNETI‘ may choose to sponsor a pet’s webpage with their
SPCA _ gift. In fact, the SPCA’s home site is maintained by

ing from Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge
County covers approximately 75% of its functioning
cost. Its services include public education, sheltering unwanted or
stray animals, animal adoption, enforcement of county ordinances,
and “humane disposition” of unadopted or injured animals.

SPCA is a member of the Virginia Federation of Humane Societ-
ies, which includes nearly all local shelters and SPCAs as well as
newer ‘trap-spay-release’ programs designed to limit the prolifera-

tion of the wild cat population.

940 dogs and 1161 cats were brought to the shelter last year.
Only 72% of dogs and 18% of cats were adopted or returned to their
owners. The only requirements for adoption are a 24-hour waiting
period and state-mandated neutering. The neutering, along with
vaccinations and worming, is included in a $50 adoption fee.

Last year, 1,066 animals were humanely destroyed. The shelter
does not keep unhealthy, wild, pregnant animals, or any animals that
have been brought in because of behavioral problems such as biting.

Pro-Bone-O: W&L Law Students for Happy Animals.

According to Pro’-Bone-O founder Michael
Adamson, the group updates rockbridgespca.org every month and
also holds fundraisers for the shelter. Adamson estimates that Pro-
Bone-O has raised $2000 among the law community since its concep-
tion in 2001.

Bethany Catron, ‘O5, a Service Day volunteer, was impressed
with the organization. “The SPCA workers do a great job of dealing
with the constant inﬂux of animals,” she said. “Almost all of the
animals I saw would make wonderful pets.”

Sara Duckworth, ‘06, “just showed up on a whim?’ to volunteer.
‘‘It seemed like a great idea,” said Duckworth. “I loved it and I’d do
it again in a heartbeat.”

Volunteers may bathe and exercise animals whenever the center
is open. “They can definitely use all the help they can get,” said
Catron. The Rockbridge County SPCA is located off Route 1 1 at 10
Animal Place.

Washington and Lee’s Hidden Heroes:

Senior Brandon Waddell, is the ﬁrst of a series in The Ring-tum Phi’s regular feature, ‘Hidden Heroes’

Brandon Waddell ’04 is a
student who’s had countless
achievements and been involved
with several organizations in and
out of the university in several
different forms. Waddell is an En-
glish/Theatre double major, and
is currently working on honors
theses for both.

Freshmen may remember him
as the illustrious “Reefer Man”,
from orientation
week’s Life.‘
Pieces of the
Puzzle presen-
tation; upper-
classmen prob-
ably know him from one of the
many performances he has been
in, including Dr. Jeckyl and Mr.
Hyde, Spinning into Butter, and
the yearly performances of
Stonewall Country done at the
Lime Kiln Theater.

Waddell is also a chamber
singer, involved in the Mustache
Society, and performs in a local
folk rock band. He describes him-
self as, “not your average fellow.”

Waddell wrote his ﬁrst poem
at age six and has been actively
occupied with this art form ever
since. He describes his entry into
acting starting as a way to pur-
sue a girl, and eventually found
that he really enjoyed it.

Waddell camevto Washing-
ton and Lee with the desire to be
a theatre major, but originally he
had planned to double—major in
history and not English.

   

ABA competition
at law school in Nov

Washington and Lee’s School of Law
will be hosting the American Bar
Association’s Regional Negotiation Com-
petition on November 15-16. The Competi-
tion is intended to help students develop

practical legal skills.

In this competition, teams of two stu-
dents will be given the opportunity to suc-
cessfully resolve a sports law problem.

The November event will bring 40 stu-
dents from 10 law schools across the South-
east to W&L’s School of Law, as well as
almost 40 local and area attorneys to judge

the three rounds.

HIDDEN HEROES
JORDAN ANDERsON’07

Despite the change, he still
enjoys history and mentions the
Chinese and Japanese History
courses he took here with Pro-
fessor Jeans to have been some
of his favorite classes.

He also mentioned Professor’
Wheeler’s Modern Poetry class
as a favorite. When asked about
what he likes and dislikes about
W&L, he asserted that the most
impressive thing
he had noticed
was that there
are “really tal-
ented professors
who know what
they are talking
about,” and he encourages ev-
eryone to take at least one class
in every department to get a feel
for the diversity of studies and
to broaden one’s horizons.

He also mentioned, however,
that in his four years many as-
pects of W&L life still resemble
that of “high school without par-
ents.”

Waddell’s long-terrn goals
are to attend graduate school
and eventually become a profes-
sor and writer.

His upcoming future goals
consist of completing his two
theses and his rigorous course
load this term, and then prepar-
ing for study abroad with the
Thomas J . Watson Fellowship,
a competitive program that
awards and allows students to
study for a year and work on

 
 

istration.

intentionally left blank.

Editor’s Note: The article entitled
“New renovations now planned for
the Freshmen Dorms,” should have
had a separate paragraph for the
V quote regarding summer camps by
Joe Grasso, Vice President for Admin-

Editor’s Note: The correct outcome
of the faculty vote was 90-79-1 with
90 in favor of the l2-12-6 and 1 ballot

individual projects internation-
ally.

Waddell will be performing
this upcoming season in the
Flournoy Playwright Festival,
as well as in Metamorphoses.

The Hidden Heroes column
aims at highlighting Washington
and Lee students who exemplify
the best of what we have to offer:
Students, please nominate your
friends by emailing phi @wlu. edu.

ﬁnd CAIR Resources
‘lmparlial 3rd party source’

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Among the various re-
sources available to Wash-
ington and Lee students who
need assistance with per-
sonal matters, Confidential
and Impartial Resolution
(CAIR) Resources is a fairly
recent program implemented
last year to address issues of
discrimination, harassment,
and sexual misconduct.

Its participants are merely
unbiased mediators; they are
there to assist those who are
victims of discrimination, ha-
rassment, and sexual miscon-
duct, and those who are ac-
cused of it.

According to the CAIR
website, it can assist students
in understanding the
University’s policy regarding
discrimination, harassment,
and sexual misconduct; it helps
explain your options for further
action; facilitate communica-
tion between the accused and
the accuser; and provide dis-
pute resolution services.

Examples of acts qualify-
ing for CAIR assistance could
include everything from unwel-
come comments by a professor
to alleged discrimination when
applying for a University-spon-
sored job to a conduct by a
University employee that makes
a student feel uncomfortable.

CAIR is not meant to re-
place the Student-Faculty
Hearing Board, University
mediators, the deans, the resi-
dence life staff, or any other
University resource.

Instead, its aim is to be
an impartial, confidential
third-party source. Its partici-
pants have been selected to
represent a broad array of the
University community, with
the goal being that th'ere
should be at least one person
who is a CAIR contact whom
a student feels comfortable
getting in touch with.

The Head of CAIR Re-
source is C. Elizabeth
Belmont, a law professor, and
there are 9'other resource
contacts, including two non-
faculty members.

Anyone who wishes to
obtain further information
on the CAIR program, or
who wants to discuss an is-
sue applicable to the CAIR
program, should call 458-
5800.

Alternatively, for those
wishing to directly contact a
CAIR participant to initiate
the complaint resolution pro-
cess, they can see the list of
participants at http://
campuslife.wlu.edu/
Student%2OAffairs/
cair_resources.htm, or refer
to the posters located around
campus.

you.

Sincerely,
Helen Hughes

Dear Washington and Lee Community,

There seems to be some confusion and questions on how the
Executive Committee of the Student Body determined the suc-
cession of officers. The procedure came from the EC’s Consti-
tution. The last time it was a public document was in 1996. The
Constitution has never been repealed. In a time that we needed
it most, the Executive Committee turned to it.
The Constitution reads, “In the event that the President of the
Student Body leaves during the year, the Vice President shall
take his place and the Secretary shall move to fill the Vice-
President’s spot. The Senior Representative who received the
most votes during the general election shall become Secretary.
The order of succession speciﬁed above shall apply for the
positions of Vice President and Secretary of the Student Body.”
In accordance with the succession of officers, Anne J ohansen
‘O5, previously Executive Committee Secretary, is now the Vice
President. Cullen Carter ’04, previously a Senior Class Repre-
sentative to the Executive‘Cominittee, is now the Secretary.
There will be a class election on Tuesday, October 28, for one
Senior Class Representative to complete the Committee.
The Constitution is currently under review by the Executive
Committee. We plan on having an open forum to hear any
input the community may have before amending the docu-
ment. I hope this clears up the confusion and questions. Thank

Executive Committee President

  rirsrentrsn avatar Rnns,suvls litttl at 

feet of

shift.
eairt fully explain it.

 

Seats fire, has 53 eizélzie

RG3 FED 59383, and

is airaitahte with 18% he

8-speed manual
Even evolution

arm llI}’I'(lI§.l§{lTC8  l.£3.ﬁt.. lltﬂ  LEE

 Nil: All}  FE; Eltilliﬂﬁﬁ I33.
ltliﬁ leiﬁliﬁﬁ  klﬁ ﬁﬁﬂfiﬂttl 
 Elli‘; ilitliﬁﬁ l’iﬁ§ full‘! ‘zlrﬁi.

4

 

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003



Parents deserve shuttle service

When considering Homecoming,
Alumni Weekend and Parents’ Week-
end, we see an egregious example of
inequality. For the alumni-focused
events, shuttles are offered to all points.
There is convenient transportation pro-
vided by The University. During Par-
ents’ Weekend, however, this is not the
case. The University must begin pro-
viding transportation around Lexington
during Parents’ Weekend.

Parents are unquestionably an in-
tegral part of the school’s budget. They
pay tuition and take active roles in the
lives of their children. Why can’t the
school spring for some type of shuttle
system for the event? May we sug-
gest the tennis bus, parked by the
Duchossois Tennis Center for the
weekend? The higher-ups pull it out
for the Board of Trustees and the Al-
ums. The parents are just as vital to
the school as those constituencies.

There would be fewer parents
given DUIs if The University would
step up to the plate on this issue. Trav-
eller is not designed for the inﬂux of
parents that this weekend brought. It
can barely handle the undergraduate
campus. We are sure that many par-
ents may have needed the system as a
result of their good-times, but it needed
to be shored up by something else.

Though we have no concrete
numbers to back us up, we have
heard that the administration pays
less for Parents’ Weekend than
Homecoming or Alumni Weekend.
One main reason for the discrepancy
is the lack of a University sponsored
shuttle system.

Quite simply, a shuttle system
would relieve strain on the City of Lex-
ington during this Washington and Lee
event and keep‘ studentsnand parents
safer and happier. ‘

 

“Let us at all times remember that
regardless ofparty, 
are brothers and sisters of a common
country, and shOI11d dwell togetherinthe
bonds offratemal feeling,”

~Abraham Lincoln,
16th President Of the United States

"’,‘5HlE'i<3'1--.'\' my LE5 l.IsIIIr.:.<rr~:
‘IIIE G—TUM HI

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks

T}-{E3 iill‘€G—~Ti,‘:',:"rE for

  

CAIErANDEIsON
OPINIONS EDIIOR

FNNLANDEIso\O@wIuE)II

  PINIONS

Bush needs to turn over 9-11 papers now

PAGE 3

PHOTO COURTESY OF white/youregou

RUNNING FROM’I'HE'I'RU'I'H. President Bush meets with the National Security Council following Bush’s post—September llth address to the nation in 2001.

President Bush’s war on terrorism has had its ups and downs. A con-
quered Iraq is no longer under the control of Saddam Hussein, but on the
other hand, soldiers and civilians alike continue to die. Afghanistan and its
people are free from the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban, but the
country, despite U.S. intervention, still languishes in inadequate infrastruc-
ture and poverty. We’ve proved that Marine Expeditionary Forces can expel
governments, but we’ve also proved that they can’t do nation-building. But
the most important catalyst of the war on terror has its own ups and downs.
After September 11th, domestic security has improved to some degree, but
on the other hand, the White House continues to hide the whole truth of what
happened that day.

For those unfamiliar with the issue, a Federal government commission
was appointed to investigate the entire series of events

the commission needs. To avoid this possible political nightmare, President
Bush must turn over the documents now. Further refusal to disclose the full
truth, regardless of whether or not it makes the President look bad, will give
the appearence of complicity. Even if President Bush is completely innocent
in this matter, he will still gamerjustiﬁed criticism if he refuses to turn over the
documents, and he will further tarnish an already cynical public view of the
government, and in particular of the presidency.

Kean has noted that the only thing he is allowed to say about the docu-
ments in question is that they are intelligence reports given to the President
just prior to the attacks. Given that the President does not want us to see
them, it’s pretty easy to infer what these reports are. In fact, I can probably
venture a guess that one of them is a report that many political analysts were

not sure even existed until now— an August 2001 report from

involved in the 9-11 attacks shortly following the attacks MODERATE’S MUSINGE the Central Intelligence Agency that contained speciﬁc warn-
themselves. For two years, this commission has attempted ‘ ings that Al Qaeda would try to hijack U.S. passenger aircraft
to get critical executive documents related to the attacks CALEY ANDERSON  and use them to destroy high—prof1le U.S. buildings and infra-

 

from President Bush and his administration. It has been the
decision of the President not to release these documents, despite the re-
peated protests of the commission and a few of its members, ex-U.S. House of
Representatives member Tim Roemer (D—Ind.) and commission Chairman Tho-
mas Kean, former Republican governor of New Jersey, are beginning to be-
come aggravated. During an October 28th speech, Roemer said “We are
losing patience with an administration and a White House that is not fully
cooperating and getting us information we need.” The commission, which is
comprised of both Democrats and Republicans, has made a unanimous reso-
lution demanding access to the documents in question from President Bush.

The White House, which has produced over 2 million pages of docu-
ments related to the 9-11 attacks, has refused to turn over many of them, for
reasons unknown to anyone except President Bush and his staff. The com-
mission has responded by threatening to subpoena the documents.

The parallel to Watergate is obvious. The content of the documents is
not nearly as important as the fact that the White House is stonewalling. It
would be incredibly disruptive if President Bush ended up in a courtroom
showdown with his own commission over his refusal to turn over the papers

structure.

Would the fact that this report went apparently ignored make the White
House look bad? Yes, but only a little. There were and are lots of reports
about potential threats from terrorists that circulate through the White House,
and most of them never happen. So while President Bush would take a hit
from revealing the documents, he would take a far worse hit if he hid them and
stonewalled the commission until he finally had to own up and face them in
court, where he would lose. _

President Nixon was not guilty of the Watergate break-in, many modern
historians now believe he didn’t even know about it until briefed many days
later. But he was still justly forced out of ofﬁce, because he refused to give
the American people the whole, untarnished truth. If he had stepped up and
acknowledged the guilty parties, while disassociating himself with them, he
would have been fine. But instead he chose to completely hide everything,
and he refused to cooperate with inquiries into the matter. In the end, this, not
the Watergate break-in itself, ruined Nixon. President Bush faces a similar
choice: hand over the documents or face a high—proﬁle attempt to wrench
them away. One can only hope he makes the right choice.

Clinton conspiracy behind Dems’ primary

Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan

Photography Editor Cody Gabbard

Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Hilary Henry

Emily Edwards

Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Arness
Aubry Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Editorial Director Katie J. Howell

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Henry G;-imball

Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during

the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee ’

University, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a
member of The Publications Board, but is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week's edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

Bill Clinton is at it again. He just can’t
seem to stay out of the public eye. At a recent
party in New York City, Bubba was overheard
saying that the only two “Democratic stars”
are his wife and Wesley Clark.

This statement comes at a time when the
Democratic party is in a sad state of affairs
and has no candidate with a strong enough
support base to defeat President
Bush in the 2004 election.
Bubba’s intention is grossly evi-
dent. He is trying to fracture the
moderate base of the Democratic
party by promoting a candidate like Wesley
Clark to steal votes from other moderate can-
didates like Joe Lieberman, John Kerry, Dick
Gephardt, and John Edwards. With the mod-
erate base so split, the activists and grassroots
supporters of Howard Dean will ensure wins
in many of the primary states, with far less
than a majority of the votes.

Now why would Bubba want to disrupt
the campaigns of the moderate Democrats?
The answer is simple. He is playing a game
with the American citizens to put his wife in
the most favorable position to win.the 2008
Presidential election. Let me give you my opin-
ion on how the 2004 Democratic primary sea-
son will play out.

Currently, Howard Dean is the leader in funds
donated for his primary run. He has utilized a
grassroots internet campaign to take a dominant
position in fundraising. The moderate candidates
have relied on the more traditional approach of
direct mail and public fundraising events. How-
ever, noneof the moderate Democratic candidates

   

have received contributions from large donors
of the Democratic party. The reason behind this
is that the big supporters have waited for a
clear frontrunner to emerge.

By throwing Wesley Clark into the mix,
with Clinton’s de facto backing, large donors
have started to support Clark’s campaign. This
has put even greater stress on the moderate
candidates. Without the
money to get their message
out to the public, they rely
heavily on evening sound
bites from major news organi-
zations. With other moderate candidates
marginalized, what has become of Wesley
Clark’s message?

Could anyone possibly decipher his opin-
ion on any major issue? He vacillates from
side to side and seems to have no true'posi-
tion on anything. And who are his advisers
helping him to craft his message? None other
than some of Bubba Clinton’s old trusted po-
litical aids. Boy, politics is surely a dirty busi-
ness. In the first three presidential nomina-
tion contests (primaries in Iowa, New Hamp-
shire, and South Carolina), Dean is leading or
close to the lead, based on recent polling. VV1th
Wesley Clark sucking the money out of the mod-

SLICE ON LIFE
NICK MANNINO ‘O7

ierate base, Dean will steamroll through the pri-

maries on his way to the Democratic nomination.
And when that happens, Bubba will have
achieved his goal.

A radically liberal Democrat will face Presi-
dent Bush in the 2004 presidential election. Re-

‘ sults will be similar to the Democratic debacles

of 1972 (Nixon/McGovem) and 1984 (Reaganl

PI-roro COURTESY OF tea:/Jpol tcbj. edu
Ex-PRESIDENT rwr. Former President Bill Clinton

Mondale). When this happens, the Democrats will
be inclined to move their ideals toward a more mod-
erate, mainstream thinldng, supporting candidates
who are more palatable to the general populous.

Coincidentally, this description seems to ﬁt,
why, yes, you guessed it, Hillary Clinton perfectly.
Thus, the conspiracy becomes perfectly clear.
Hillary for President in ‘O8. Wow, how ironic.

So, good ole‘ Bubba, the maestro behind the
scenes, is conducting a Democratic orchestra to
that down home Arkansas tune: Clinton before
all.

 

    

PAGE 4



I used to tout that appearances didn’t matter because I didn’t want to seem superﬁcial. But deep
down inside, I really did care about appearances to a degree. I used to think that people who cared
about their own appearances and the appearances of others were outrageously shallow, but I have
changed my mind—somewhat. I dated a guy once who had a pretty laid back style and pretty much
wore the same outﬁt every single time I saw him: a wrinkly plaid shirt that was somewhat tucked into
a pair of wrinkly khaki pants. On a day-to-day basis, I really could care less about what he wore, but
what bothered me about his appearance was that he never changed it up when we went out for a
special occasion or a date. It wasn’t that his outﬁt bothered me but it was the fact that he had put in
no effort to prepare for our outing. That lack of effort to me translated into a lack of consideration for
me. He could see that I had taken the time to primp and complimented me for it, but I
could not say the same for him because he had done nothing to improve his appear-_
ance. That, to me, was insulting. ’

So then I came to realize that I do indeed care about appearances and found a
justiﬁcation for other people’s concerns for appearances as well. It wasn’t that I was
shallow. I merely wanted to see that my date had made some kind of effort for me
because I had done the same for him. Special occasions call for special behavior—it’s what makes the
occasion so special. Otherwise, it’s just a normal, everyday occurrence that means nothing. Along the
same line, primping also shows respect. When I primp for a date or for any “special” occasion, I do it
out of respect for the guy, because if I look good, then he will look good. And the same applies for the
guy. If he looks nice, then I will too. You’ve heard the phrase your team is only as strong as your
weakest member. Well, in this case, the couple looks only as nice as the sloppiest person.

And as much as you may want to ignore it, the fact is that looks do matter because they deﬁne you
as a person. If you look sloppy, most people will think you’re a sloppy person, not just organization-
ally but maybe in other aspects of your life. You have sloppy habits. You make sloppy decisions. You
do sloppy work. Slop, slop, slop. And none of us walk around saying we want our friends and our
potential mates to be slops. You want someone who is kind, funny, intelligent, and consideraie, but

 
 

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

Why you need to pay attention to your appearence

Now, that doesn’t mean that looks are the most important quality in a person because
they definitely aren’t. There are plenty of beautiful people who immediately become the
most ugly people once you get to know them because of their attitudes. But the reality is
that looks do matter and looks are the only representation people have of you when they
first meet you. It is just not possible to walk around with a sandwich board listing all of
your wonderful qualities so people will only judge you for who you are and not what you
look like.

A lot of people seem to think that looking good costs money and that it’s just not
financially possible to look nice, but that is not the case. Maintaining a good appearance

does not mean that you must wear a $300 outfit. Itjust means taking the time

TRAIN OF THOUGHT to simply groom and look neat. You just need to look as though you have put

some kind of effort into what you’re wearing rather than throwing on some old
outfit lying on the floor and walking out the door. That means wearing some-
thing clean and combing your hair.

But most importantly, you should take the time to look nice for you. First of all, I love
getting ready in the morning because it is such a stress reliever. It is almost as important
as my cup of coffee. I find that when I wake up too late and don’t have an hour to shower,
dry my hair, and mess with my hair and makeup, I am usually ﬂustered for the entire day.
Getting ready every morning calms me down. Another thing about looking good is that it
makes you feel good. Looking good is an empowerment mechanism. It increases your
confidence level and just enables you to deal with your anxieties more effectively. And
lastly, how you look affects how people will perceive you, and you should care about that.
You will seldom have the chance to know every person you meet in depth so that they can
get beyond your appearances. More often than not, your appearance is all they have to
remember you by. If you look nice, people will have one perception of you. And if you look
bad, people will have another perception of you. So decide how you want to be remem-

nowhere on this wish list of qualities you want in a friend or mate is sloppiness.

bered and dress yourself accordingly.

Neither yankees nor rebels, we!’ re all just Generals

BLUE , WHITE, AND SHADES OF GRAY. Lexington circa 1864, the year that Union and Rebel troops really did roam the streets, and Union General David Hunter ordered the Virginia Military Institute burnt to the ground.

I’m an American. More speciﬁcally, I’ m from
Texas. Does that make me from the South? I
don’t know and I certainly don’t care. I don’t
speak with anaccent. Idespise the “word” y’all.
In fact, I’m~~annoyed at the fact that a squiggly
red line didn’t just appear under “y’all” when I
typed it, because it’s not a word and if the dic-
tionary says it is then it should no longer be the
authority in proper diction! I’m no Southern
Belle and the only degree I’m here to get is in
English.

I had always viewed Virginia as being part
of the Northeast. And from all the way down in
Texas, it seemed like practically part of New En-
gland. The states up here are just so much
smaller and closer together than I’m accustomed
to. You could drive for ten hours without leav-
ing Texas but the same distance from Virginia
would practically get you to Canada. What, you
are asking yourself, is my point? I’m getting tired

Letter to the Editor

of hearing all of this North/South business. I
don’t think any less of anyone from the north
and would never dream of calling them a Yan-
‘kee. We have students here from 41 different
countries; everywhere from Hong Kong to Ni-
geria to Finland, or Finalnd according to the
current course catalogue. (Finally, there’s that
little red squiggly line. Where were you when I
needed you before?) But
you’d almost think there
were 42 countries repre
sented here at Washington
and Lee, by drawing the dis-
tinction between the Northern and Southern
United States. Can’t we just be from one united
nation? Can’t we please all just get along?

I appreciate history more than the average
person. I could even sit through hours of Civil
War documentaries and find it enjoyable. I
really like the music in them, too: so haunt-

ingly beautiful yet quaint. I’ve read Lee: The
Last Years and appreciate the unique history
of our school and the fact that we have a
whole section devoted to the Civil War gen-
eral in our bookstore. Only in Lexington, Vir-
ginia could such a thing occur. Robert E. Lee
was undoubtedly a heroic figure and I chal-
lenge any non-believers to researchtthe mat-

_________________________________________________ _. ter before they say any differently.
THE BIG PICTURE

ANNE FINLEY ‘07

A brief history: he freed his father
in law’s slaves before the law de-
manded it, was asked to lead the
Northern Army by Lincoln but de-
clined because he couldn’t abandon his home
state of Virginia, and fought for unity and
tolerance after the end of the war. Oh yeah,
and don’t forget Washington; he was a good
guy too. (Wait. What did he do again? Was
he in the Civil War too? Which side?) ~

Yet it is important to remember that the

Civil War is over. It should only hold a his-
torical significance for us today. Must we
identify our classmates with the side they
would belong to if the Civil War should un-
expectedly start up again? And must we put
confederate ﬂags on our dorm windows and
car bumpers?

Besides the fact that it is now widely
used by white supremacy groups as a sym-
bol of racism and oppression, it changes how
we are viewed. If we want to attract diver-
sity, (and we all should), then we need to
start projecting our school as what it is: a
national, private, liberal arts university.

So, let’s just be Nigerian, Chinese,

Finalndian, and American. We’re not Yankees

and Rebels anymore. In fact, unless anyone
among us has been alive since 1865, we never
were.

Baseball not a dying game

Dear Editor,

I noticed that the author, Caley Anderson
(“Baseball: dying sport with few cures,” October
27), rnisleads the readers by making baseball seem
to be decreasing in popularity. According to the
Associated Press, “ratings for the first three games
of the World Series” have risen for the first time
since 1999.

The postseason’s overall rating increased
40% from 2002. Both Game Sevens of the LCS were
the “highest-rated nights of primetime program-
ming” so far this year. The Division Series had
record playoff audiences.

The ﬁnal game of the World Series may not
have had as many television viewers as the last
Superbowl, but take into consideration that the
Superbowl is one game — whereas the World
Series can last up to seven. I witnessed sev-
eral of the playoff games at Frat houses these
past few weeks, and even brothers who admit-

ted to not—liking baseball stated the playoffs
were exciting.

Football may ban “l4 perforrnance—enhancing
drugs that are freely allowed in baseball,” but I am
pretty sure that less than 50% of baseball players
do not do cocaine or heroine (as opposed to foot-
ball players who do). Possibly a slight exaggera-
tion—but my point is made.

Anderson also accuses baseball of having the
same teams win over and over. Well since 1990,
there have been 8 different champions in baseball
and 9 in football—not a very big disparity there.

Next complaint by the author: baseball is try-
ing to replace umpires with robots. That could
possibly be an exaggeration. I’m sorry, I have a
question. Does instant replay not require elec-
tronics?

Finally, he suggests the players should stand
up and take salary cuts to save baseball. I agree
with this point, but perhaps Terrell Owens should
set a good example by doing so in the NFL.
Sincerely, '

Sam Kello ‘O7

Anderson’s response-

Ist- It’s not misleading or incorrect to
say that baseball’s popularity has dra-
matically declined. True, the 2003 World
Series was significantly more popular than
the 2001 article, but this can be attrib-
uted to fan attention to what will be an
increasingly rare spetacle- underdog,
small market teams beating larger; richer
teams. I'd be willing to bet more unique
viewers watched the Super Bowl last year
than watched Games I through 7. I can ’t
prove this, no one can, but it’s common
sense, considering that a sitcom can beat
out baseball's biggest seven games.

2nd- Saying that half offootball uses
cocaine or other illegal drugs is far more
than a slight exaggeration. I’m not say-
ing, as ex—All Star Ken Caminiti did, that
steroids and illegal performance enhanc-
ers are omnipresent in baseball, nor am I
saying that football is a stellar example
ofpristine, drug-free athletes. What I’m

doing is comparing NFL and MLB policy.
The NFL bans and enforces the bans on cer-
tain substances, the MLB does not.

3rd— Only one more team has made it to
the Big Show in football than in baseball.
But this is a deceptive stat. Let’s look at a
more accurate statistic, the playoffs. In the
NFL, only two teams, including the expan-
sion Cleveland Browns, have not made it to
the playoffs in 1990. In baseball, five times
that many teams have not made it, simply be-
cause they can ’t afford it. This illustrates my
point far better.

4th- There is a HUGE difference between
using electronics in instant replay to help
oﬁicials, and replacing oﬁicials altogether
with electronics. I think this point is obvi-
ous enough that it needs no explanation from
me.

5th- Terrell Owens doesn’t NEED to
lower his salary. His yearly salary-
$4.2 million. Alexander Rodriguez’s—
$25.2 million. Enough said, really.

$'l’S'l'RAVEI..€0M

   

Write for the Phi- E—mail phi @wlu. edu or call x4060

  
    
    

 
  

55!! ray‘, 2". cuts; ca {.52
Flow mung Ozrtampus Raps

 
  
   

W&L

Future Trophy Wives Club

I\I

Contact

Erin‘ Johnson at johnsoner@wlu.edu

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! 1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 

  

JOHNHYLAND
AssrrANrSi>oris FDIIOR
FMAll:HYlAND]@WllJ.EDU

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

'l'l~liE Rl:‘\‘%{-;~’l'lﬂ\'£ Pia

 

PORTS

PAGE 5

Soccer teams keep seasons alive in ODAC tournament

Generals get back on tra

JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The up and down season for the W&L men's
soccer team continues. After starting the season
undefeated in their first eight games, the Generals
then lost their next ﬁve. The Generals needed a win
against Emo ry and Henry in Lexington on Wednes-
day to guarantee them a spot in the ODAC tourna-
ment.

The Generals responded to the challenge.
They wasted no time in taking advantage of the
last-place Wasps (1-14-2, 0-8 ODAC) scoring just
1:01 into the game when Sophomore Derrick Lott
connected on a feed from fellow midﬁelder Jacob
Stoehr. It was the senior’s team leading fourth as-
sist of the season. The Generals would score twice
more in the next 15 minutes to extend their lead
when E&H scored on their own goal and junior
midﬁelder Justin Mygatt’s tally just minutes later.
W&L would round out the ﬁrst half scoring on a
goal from junior midfielder Josh Grahe off an assist
from freshman forward Sandy Pircacci at the 28:37
mark. With the Generals getting all the offense that
they would needin the first half, they were able to
focus on the defensive end of the game in the sec-
ond half, forcing sophomore goalkeeper Michael
Stanton to only have to make one save for the game.
The Generals did get a goal from sophomore
midﬁelder Walker Nickels to round out the scoring
and earn a 5-0 victory.

VV1th the win, the Generals qualiﬁed for the
ODAC tournament as the seventh seed in the eight
team tournament. W&L traveled to Roanoke on
Saturday to face the second seeded Maroons. The
Generals lost to Roanoke in the teams’ regular sea-
son meeting, 2-1, in the game that started W&L’s
ﬁve game slide. Despite playing on the road and
being the underdog to the Maroons, who entered
the game with a 10-3-3 overall record, the Generals
took a 1-0 lead into halftime. The lone goal came on
an unassisted strike from freshman midﬁelder Kyle
Garcia with 15 minutes left in the first half. The
Generals tightened up defensively in the second
half and maintained their lead until 2:44 left in regu-
lation when Roanoke midﬁelder Donny Smith

 

ck against Emory& Henry

CORBIN BLACKFORD RING-TUM PHI

Enema our THE COMPETITION. The men’s soccer team extended its season with a win over Emory & Henry.

scored off a free kick that bounced off a couple
W&L defenders before giving Smith the chance to
beat Stanton. Neither team could ﬁnd the net
through two overtime periods and the game went
into penalty kicks. Stanton came up huge in the PK
session. After making 5 saves during regulation
and overtime, he stopped two Roanoke shots to
give the Generals a 3-1 advantage and the victory.
The Generals prevailed in'an extremely physical
game in which 48 fouls were whistled and seven

Cam and Hyland0’s

CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

yellow cards were issued. The Generals were also
out shot 13-6 and forced Roanoke keeper Harper
Thorsen to only have to make one save. Neverthe-
less, W&L took advantage of the few scoring op-
portunities that they had, something they have
been inconsistent in doing this season.
Apparently having reverted to their early sea-
son form, the Generals (8-5-2) will try to avenge
another regular season loss as they will play
Guilford in Greensboro on Friday in the semi—ﬁnals.

  Top Ten List
Top ten things heard during
Parents’ Weekend

 Does Traveller drive to the Homestead?
9: Your mother and I are going to take a “nap.”
8: Back when I was at W&L. ..

i‘  Hey baby, my dad is sleeping in my bed, can I sleep

in yours?

6: Welcome to (any fraternity), we have a Motown
band.

5: We can’t go to the party, your father has two strikes.

4: What time did the ofﬁcer say we could pick up your

The Generals faced a huge chal-
lenge on Saturday as they played host
to Bridgewater, a fast, deep top ten team
that won the last meeting in overtime
two years ago. From the start, this game
seemed destined to follow the same
script as that of two years ago: the Gen-
erals’ defense looked strong after giv-
ing up an early score, leaving them
down a mere 7-3 at the half. Ben Long’s
school record—tying 47-yard ﬁeld goal
gave W&L the lone score, but the team
had held an incredibly potent offense,
led by junior QB Brandon Wakeﬁeld (17-
28, TD, 2 INT), and the rushing of
sophomore Marcus Washington (14
car. 85 yds. TD) to one score.

As the defense ﬁnished off a great
first half with a Robert Foster intercep-
tion late in the second quarter, the of-
fense came out looking to take the lead.
On the first play of the drive, however,
Bridgewater got the ball right back on
an interception by Steward White. They
drove the ball down, missing the ﬁeld
goal as the first half came to a close.
The Generals had held the talented
Bridgewater team to one score.

Womens’ team
squeaks out
1-0 win over Roanoke

SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

The Generals played a close first ODAC tour-
nament game on Saturday afternoon against sev-
enth seeded Roanoke. The final score of 1-0 will
enable the girls to continue in ODAC competition;
bringing the team one step closer to their goal of
hosting the ODAC championship tournament in
front of a home crowd on the newly constructed
soccer ﬁeld.

The only goal of the game was scored by jun-
ior Maggie Hope. Hope scored after freshman Anne
Wiltshire’s attempted goal bounced off of the
goalpost. Hope recovered.the ball and kicked it
past the goalie
f°.’ {he ga.m° “As a team, we have such
winning point. . .

“Wétryto great chemistry, which helps

aPP’°a°h °‘f' us tremendously out on the
cry game as if ﬁeld ,, «

it could be our
last and we a1— JUNIOR MAGGIE HOPE

ways work re-

ally hard.” said

Hope of the team’s preparation. “We just know
that we want to win for our teammates because we
all care about each other so much.”

Junior Emily Barker protected the goal for the
Generals for the duration of the game, making four
saves.

“Our main goal for the tournament and from

the beginning of the season has been to win the -

ODACs.’’ said Hope. “As a team, we have such
great chemistry, which helps us tremendously out
on the ﬁeld.”

The girls will count on that chemistry as they
take on third-seeded Lynchburg in semi-ﬁnals.

Team blown out after strong first half

STEVE MARiNos / RING-TUM PHI

 

father?

3: We need to talk about your behavior last night.
2: I had no idea you guys had a vacuum.

0
1 . Good morning, who’s mom are you?

good. '

The Peter Dean interception
seemed to be the spark that the Eagles
needed, as they came out hungry in the
second half, putting up 21 unanswered points and handing
the Generals a 28-3 loss. The Generals’ defense played re-
markably well against a great offensive team, continuing to
show the rock-solid type of play we’ve come to expect out
of them all season. Junior linebacker Lloyd Wilson knocked
the guy with the ball down 11 times. . .11 TIMES, boy he’s

Offensively, Peter Dean was 15-of-36 for 159 yards

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDULE

game.

RUN, CU'1‘, SPRINT. Freshman fullback Richard Garland tries to avoid a tackle in the
team’s 28-3 loss to Bridgewater on Saturday.

throwing one interception despite being under constant pres-
sure all day (he was sacked 6 times). The rushing stats,
however, tell the story best, as Bridgewater rushed for 264
yards and held the Generals to a meager 20 yards rushing all

All in all, the Generals did well against such a fast, physi-

cal team. They return to action Saturday at Emory & Henry

at 1:00 pm.

Tuesday, November 4 Wednesday, November 5 Thursday, November 6 Friday, November 7 Saturday, November 8 Sunday, November 9
0 Open 0 WSoccer vs. 0 Open 0 VB at ODAC Toum-- 0 FBat Emory & Henry" 0 Swim at Catholic--1 :00
Lynchburg--TBA TBA 1:00’ ’ 0M Soccer vs. TBA--TBA
0 W Swim vs. Sweet 0 FH vs. EMU (at 0 WSoccer vs. TBA-TBA ‘
Briar--7:00 VWC)--2:30 0 FH vs. TBA (at VWC)—

TBA

O M Soccer vs. Guilfor --
TBA

0 VB at ODAC Toum--
TBA

 

PAGE 6

 

Swimmers

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. -— The Washing-
ton and Lee men’s swimming team
downed Virginia Military Institute, 117-
88, in non-conference action on Satur-
day morning at the Cy Twombly Pool.

Senior Eric Ritter (Birmingham, Ala/
Mountain Brook) and freshman Mike
Ginder (Jacksonville, Fla./Episcopal) led
all Generals (2-0) with a pair of victories
each. Ritter took top honors in the 200
Free (1252.42) and 100 Back (53.06), while

BANG. The mens’ and womens’ swimming squads defeated VMI over the weekend.

SPORTS
defeat VMI

Ginder won the 100 Free (49.25) and the
50 Free (22.83).

Senior Drew Catanese
(Southampton, Mass./Suﬁield Acad.) and
freshman Kevin Hayes (Mercer Island,
Wash./Mercer Island) rounded out the
event winners f or W&L. Catanese won
the 100 Fly with a time of 54.63, while
Hayes hit the waH first in the 200 IM with
a time of 2205.27.

The Generals return to action on
Sunday, Nov. 9, when they travel to
Catholic. Meet time is 1:00 p.m.

CHRISTINE GRAY / RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

Field hockey start ODACs with win

KATHERINE SHELL
STAFF WRITER

W&L’s Field Hockey team
won last Sunday against St.
Mary’s College 5-4, won Thes-
day against Randolph-Macon 2-
1, and lost to Eastern Mennonite
3-5 on Wednesday. Saturday,
they played against Randolph-
Macon in the first round of the
ODAC Tournament and won 3-2.

Captain Kelly Taffe ‘04
scored two of the three goals; the
other was scored by S.B. Noithen
’05 with twenty-five minutes left
in the game. Randolph tried to
recover from W&L’s three goals,
but they were unable to even af-
ter scoring twice, the last goal
leaving only forty—six seconds in
the game.

On Friday, the Generals will
play Eastern Mennonite at Vir-
ginia Wesleyan at 2:30 in the

438339?-

senii-final round of the ODAC Championship.

Though the Generals lost to Eastern Mennonite on
Wednesday, they had outscored them in the last sixteen
minutes. The original game, played on October 16, had been
called off due to lightning. The score at the point of call-off

C1-I.RIS'I'1NE GRAY / RING-TUM PHI

GOING FOR THE GOAL. After strong showings in games last week, the ﬁeld hockey team
continued its winning ways on parents’ weekend. -

was 1-4, with the Eastern Mennonites winning. The Gener-
als outscored them on Wednesday 2-1, but lost the game.
EM is second-seeded and W&L is third-seeded; Friday’s
match will lead the winner to play Virginia Wesleyan on
Saturday.

Volleyball wins Maryville tournament

ALLISON PERRY
' CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Volleyball team improved its
record to 31-3 overall and 11-0 in the ODAC this weekend
after winning the Maryville Invitational. The Generals de-
feated opponents Milligan, Maryville, Emory and Henry,
and Centre during the two-day event.

On Friday, Washington and Lee crushed Milligan, 30-
15, 30-15, 30-17. Sophomore middle blocker Susan Gaillard
led the team with 14 kills. Junior outside hitters Michelle
Chastain and Emily Wolfmg totaled 10 kills and four service
aces and seven kills and 17 digs, respectively. Sophomore
setter Christine Gladysz contributed with 42 assists and four
aces.

The Generals also defeated host Maryville on Friday,
30-24, 25-30, 30-26, 30-28. Wolﬁng led the teamwitli 18 kills
and 25 digs. Chastain notched 14 kills and 19 digs. Fresh-
man Lauren Edmonson totaled 12 digs. Gladysz accumu-
lated 52 assists, 17 digs, and three aces.

Cross country finishes
ODAC championships

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LYNCHBURG, Va. — The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams were in action on Satur-
day at the ODAC Championships hosted by Lynchburg
College. The W&L men’s and women’s teams both finished
third overall. I

On the men’s side, senior Andy Schorr (Kingwood,
Texas/Kingwood) won the race, crossing the tape in 28:11.00.
He finished 10 seconds ahead of the nearest competitor
and became the first General to earn ODAC Runner of the
Year honors since Jason Callen won the 1997 ODAC race.

Junior Steven Chambers (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area)
and senior Rusty Meyer (Dallas, Texas/Jesuit Prep) both

ﬁe Etta ‘teen

Sat: Spies}: tears
.3..3=§8.e2$.?‘?t§
*srmz.sa:as;2l atazarsaaaza 2

 

» Golf Etiquette

tip of the
week:

When it's ,
breezy swing
I easy.

 

iii;-iiiﬁ‘

{?:i.(>.Rs;s. LA'*3.’5"+:§‘?:?é{)i¥ F?A!s1:“;£‘.t.
Pietresiatsxaiauss 

  

§§«¢ﬁ’§»34d$?

 
  
 

§amS1.0a0-‘-'-52.300503’
§ni:m3lIosn'sl

  

i*e*a.§t;i;:s:¥ie 'f&i2‘1.tﬁrai$i‘ig  a.v.-ail.-at-‘.93.

 lbenm5

 

309 N. Main St. —  , VA 24450

total»;-gs mndriaivééntg made Simple, Safe and? Fires.

p Na";-  38:7 c:il¥§e§. Just iciicivsisﬁéi
Funsdzawng  M2 f315!’iz,§:»i§I.ii(.i<l3?.  with dist: rwwiaesn tiaezz are-3:62;:

Freer '§"2'me.s’£-riai S'r;=r£mc'fi~3r Ckailezge .F"'r¢ns1”‘n:i-2ii'§rz,;,§.

.......  

 

   

 

iO= En’-sz©*erz: O

&

  

 

 

LSAT score  
uara nteed
or your money back“

Going to law school in 29%? Fmpaee for the LSAT
with  here on campus at W&L“

Classes begin an  23. 
Enreli  amid begin your
stuﬂias at any ﬁmeﬂ

    

 all mantras: nlasﬂls or  sessimﬁ.
comelsta all &:.‘1'isd£.¥iitd mm, am an 
ifimur seem aria-zzsrft  an test‘ ilil5*'1'l‘mI32 your
Karim diagréti-sttr:= at as parlor" crfﬂalal ti‘-sat snare, 
 enenaebn mm: mxrmzgxamﬁarﬁtee-organ
ma: mrfmu at your Itmthm. ‘fan the eligihiafnrtﬁils ‘after.
WU must be tn 3¢anim".i: ma classrmm.
suturing, nmnilrie  In aodltlaraivawsrmat
iemeem an ewe:  mare  and
eiitmiitggoar course materials  

On Saturday, the team was back in action when it de-
feated Emory and Henry, 30-19, 30-21, 30-23. Freshman out-
side hitter Ashley Hurt led the Generals with 13 kills and 11
digs. Gaillard and Wolfmg notched 13 kills and nine kills
and ten digs, respectively. Gladysz totaled 54 assists and
16 digs.

In the last game, Washington and Lee overcame Centre
with a 27-30, 30-28, 30-17, 33-31 win. Wolfmg guided the
team with 21 kills, 13 digs, and six blocks. Chastain notched
16 kills, 21 digs, and four blocks. Gaillard accumulated 13
kills and four blocks. Gladysz totaled 60 assists, 14 digs,
and three blocks. In the game against Centre, Gladysz broke
the Washington and Lee career assist record held by Ali
Beard since 1997. Gladysz totaled 2,258 while Beard’s record
was 2,192.

The Generals will travel to Randolph-Macon on Friday
to compete in the ODAC Tournament. The tournament lasts
through Saturday. It has not been announced yet who will
face Washington and Lee in the first game.

third in
at Lynchburg College

earned Second Team All-ODAC honors with their finishes.
Chambers placed 1 1th with a time of 29:49.00, while Meyer
crossed the tape in 30:1 1.00 in placing 14th overall.

For the women, freshman Jenny Ratzel (Elm Grove,
Wisc./Brookﬁeld East) earned Second Team All-ODAC ac-
colades by placing eighth overall with a time of 27: 10.
Sophomore Mary Christopher (Fort Lauderdale, Fla./Car-
dinal Gibbons) placed l5tli (27:36), sophomore Betsy Frayer
(Grand Rapids, Mich./East Grand Rapids) placed 16th
(27:44) and freshman Tippins Stone (Nashville, Tenn./
Harpeth Hall) placed 17th (27:53).

W&L returns to action on Sat., Nov. 15, as it competes
in the NCAA South/Southeast Regional Championships
in Atlanta, Ga.

   
  
     
          
    
  

ﬁiufld LaadnrhTO£tPrnp

KAPLAN

i-tan-xnr-rest
kaptestoom/Ian:

 
 
  

     

   

 

    
       
       

ins Roi c-Tun iiin

PAOE 7

RTS

LIFE

 

MEGANMORGAN

AKlS&LIFEEDl’l0R

mm m

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

Revamped City Subs offers variety of quality food

Last Friday I was awarded
a rare opportunity, an invita-
tion for a sneak preview of the
new City Subs. Employees
had gathered for trained in the
art of sub—making, and I was
one of a lucky few test sub-
jects.

You could say that a sub
is a sub—-you can’t do too

 

Just one of the things that
makes City Subs so good is
the quality of ingredients they
use. Fluffy, crispy, just-baked

bread was overﬂowing with '

fresh, high-quality meat. And
they’ll make it any way you
want it.

The chicken parmesan

sub was also the best I’ve had‘

much to mess it ____________________________________________________ _, in town. In-
up, but then THE DISH stead of slim
a ‘n th e' ’t cuts f
gal er 13“ CAROLYN DUFFY ‘05 °

 

much you can do
to glamorize the
sandwich. However, I think
City Subs could prove you
wrong.

Many local restaurants
specialize in the sub:
Salerno’s, Frank’s, Naples,
Spanky’s. But Brant Wymond,
the new owner of City Subs,
who moved here recently from
Dallas, has succeeded in
breaking the mold. I tried the
turkey sub on Friday—much
potential for mediocrity, but
that wasn’t the case at all.

..................................................... ..

c h i c k e n
smothered in
greasy fried batter and cov-
ered in tasteless sauce, the
chicken parm at City Subs
contains thick, tender cuts of
white meat settled in ﬂavorful
spicy Italian marinara sauce,
topped with fresh melted Pro-
volone cheese.

The menu offers some-
thing for everyone, for break-
fast, lunch, and dinner. Try
the City Breakfast for only
$4.95——two eggs, bacon or
sausage, grits or hash browns,

and pancakes. They still
serve five different varieties of
steak subs, including Mexican
and pizza steak, as well_ as
fresh subs, sandwiches, and
an extensive choice of salads.
And don’t worry—they
haven’t taken the Fried Pick-
les or the Hershey’s ice cream
off the menu.

The comfortable, fun at-
mosphere at City Subs adds
as much to your dining expe-
rience as does the food.
Wymond has turned the_ res-
taurant into a family business,
and you’re sure to find his
wife, Sue, and his two young
boys around the restaurant.

The family’s presence
gives the place personality
and energy, which shines
through in their commitment to
service. They have embraced
the community, wanting noth-
ing more than to have fun
serving up great food. Their
warm invitation to join them
for a trial run of the restaurant

on Friday is just one example
of their generous hospitality.

The atmosphere has
changed dramatically since
the Wymond family began re-
modeling City Subs. What
was once a cramped, dark,
dingy counter area has been
transformed into a bright,
open, airy space. In keeping
true to its name, Wymond has
expanded upon the city theme,
covering the walls in photo-
graphs of city scenes by a lo-
cal artist. The old firehouse
motif that characterized the old
restaurant is gone, replaced
with what feels like a genuine
diner atmosphere.

I was assured that the res-
taurant would be open to the
public by Monday (that’s to-
day), so I encourage you to
give City Subs, located at 159
S Main Street, a try sometime
soon. Lexington is lucky to
have both the restaurant and
the Wymonds as new addi-
tions to the community.

Dido’s newest album “Life for Rent”not groundbreaki ut a good buy

BY ALEX KRAUS
STAFF WRITER

Those who paid attention to Dido’s 1999
debut “No Angel” will know exactly what to
expect from her newly—released follow—up “Life
for Rent,” for better or for worse.

“Life for Rent” kicks off with the first
single “White Flag” as its first song. “White
Flag” distinguishes itself as one of the
album’s superior songs, further building upon
the style that Dido has established with past
hits like “Thank You” and “Hunter.” The
smooth sound production, evident through-
out the entire CD, manifests itself especially
in “White Flag,” giving it the subtle sweep-
ing majesty of a film score, aided by hushed

. violins.

Under any condition, I’d be cautious
when approaching a song with the chorus
“When you’re stoned, baby / Take me home”
and the appropriately—titled song “Stoned” is
certainly no exception. Despite my personal
reservations about the drug references, the
song, sprinkled with an acute techno beat, is
admittedly infectious. The lyrics, though
simple and segmented, are plaintive. As it
ends up, the song may be more additive than
its subject. '

The album’s title track follows. “Life for
Rent” proudly displays Dido’s undeniably
best talent: her voice. The song takes the
same formula as the rest of the album: a lilt-
ing, lighter-than-air melody backed with a
steady drum breat.

The chorus is especially captivating as
she reaches the high notes in “If my life is for
rent... then nothing I have is truly mine” — it
strikes you dumbfounded, as if something
otherworldly or ethereal has been revealed for
a fraction of a second. Fans of The Cranber-
ries, Sarah McLachlan, or Jewel will know ex-
actly what I’m talking
about. Then, as soon
as the lilting soprano
notes pass, you sit
there dazed, as if you
have just heard some-
thing —— dare I say it
— angelic? And then
you count down the
seconds until the next
repetition just to hear
that exact moment
when Dido suddenly
elevates herself into
the stratosphere
above the common-
place female singer.

On “Who Makes
You Feel,” Dido
dabbles in R&B inﬂuences, complete with
drum loops and a record skip. Unfortunately,
the song relies far too heavily on the repeti-
tion of the chorus, “Who makes you feel like
I make you feel?” A combination of the seem-
ingly randomly-assembled lyrics and soulful
gospel-like backing vocals make me feel that
this has been done before, and done better.
Though I can commend Dido for trying to ex-
pand her style, the sour results evident in this

 

track suggest that she should look elsewhere
for inspiration.

“Sand in my Shoes” wavers back and forth
between a Jewel-like folk song and a light
dance beat. The song begins naively enough
with Dido tip—toeing through rapid lyrics with-
out pause against a piano and folky guitar,

but gradually
progresses into a
slightly diluted

trance beat, including
ethnic drum beats. As
much of a contrast as
this may seem, it is ac-
tually a very smooth,
almost natural, pro-
gression.

“Do You Have a
Little Time” proceeds
at first with all the
gusto of a funeral
march, and with the
same amount of dis-
comforting disso-
nance. The several
layers of noise that

interfere with the melody remove it from any-,

thing resembling harmony. To even say
“melody” is perhaps too generous, as it
sounds more improvisational rather than cal-
culated. The song becomes more tedious to
listen to than pleasurable.

Hidden at the end of track 11 is an im-
pressive bonus track entitled, “Closer.” Nor-
mally extra songs of any kind are always a
bonus, but “Closer” deserves special acco-

HOUSE FOR RENT

Available June 2004
6 Tucker Street
3 Bedrooms/1 Bath
Living Room/Large Kitchen
Washer/Dryer
Recently Renovated
$840/mo.
463-9180 evenings/weekends
458-5001 weekdays

subscribe to the phi
540-4584060

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie
in an
international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:

  

  

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

University
Cleaners

WE’LL GET RID OF YOUR DIRT

Great Service
First—Rate Quality

laundry, alterations

www.triplenine.org

For
Rent

ntly w/3 nt. min.

Call

dry cleaning,

l __L

Parents/Alumni -- Re-
stored and modernized log
cabin on 22 ac. in moun-
tains 15 min west of
Lexington. 2BR/2BA --
Sleeps 6. Avail wkly or

(804)355-0002

 

Muiatlcolmzn.

higler  
McAT score
  uarantee
or your money back“

Prepare for the Marie  HEAT
with Kapiaza here an campm at w&Ll!

, classes beget Jmuary 10. 
Enroll.  before October 3131 and receive
on-line  Review FREE!

-wear in in minim: mximutofim hnuanm ntannima

 all nautical classes or manna; sessions,
txmalaba all aehsdniisd ‘lulu,  hmnenmm
if your more «mm morons on am any from your
iupiarr diagnamlr: M a paier'uﬂialaI1mst more. you
can cnaosem mount our :rIownrtne!or:rea.nrget:a
ml  of Mir tuition. To in mlglhilelhr ttxtaafflar.
jam must as etsmaed in atapiarrs an ciﬂﬂsmnm.
Mortars‘, W Milne mums. R1 addltitirks Name’:

gjzrasent an nmdial  or some  and

avatmiltiymr mm mammals. mm mam...

 
 

lades. The song is acoustic, with only Dido’s
exceptional voice and a solo guitar. It is Dido
stripped down to her bare essentials, and ad-
mittedly, her best assets. The intimate track
records every ﬂutter of the vocal chords and
strum of the strings.

The sheer simplicty and persuasiveness
of Dido’s raw vocals is what makes “Closer”
better than the plurality of songs on “Life
for Rent.” The melodic hook is enrapturing
and it’s difficult to resist a second listen. Per-
haps for her next endeavor, Dido should in-
vestigate an acoustic album rather than ven-
turing into the abyss of electronica that
sometimes swallows good artists whole.

As for the album’s technical aspects, its
an immaculately produced CD. Transitions
are smooth as butter. Dido’s music has been
described by some as “folk electronica” and
it’s thanks mostly due to her production team
that such a musical oxymoron can exist. De-
spite acoustic guitars mixed with subdued
trance beats, nothing feels out of place.

Even if not entirely groundbreaking,
“Life for Rent” is an enjoyable listening ex-

‘perience. The CD begins with the impecca-

bly melodious trio of “White Flag,”
“Stoned,” and “Life for Rent,” but the album
falls into a‘slump during its second half.
Songs like “Do You Have a Little Time” and
“This Land is Mine” are almost lazy in their
composition. But odds are, you won’t be
looking for groundbreaking structures in
“Life for Rent.” You’ll be looking for Dido’s
dulcet, meandering vocals, and rest assured,
they are firmly in tow.

  
 
 

   
 

  

  
  
 

  

    
  
  

wnrltllsadarlahstvrnv
undmmtsolons

KAPLAN

t-tan-nip-rssr
kaprtaateam/premixed

     

    

          
    

  

 

 

 

PAGE‘ 8

 

THEE Rgnéc-n_.:n Pa:

THE AST

MEGANMORGAN
AR'IS&LIPEEDl'IOR

mm m

ORD

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

Co’op Becomes Ghost Town, Students miss out

BY ]i-:13 Bnooxs
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Prompted by some senior friends, I de-
cided to take a walk down memory lane. I went
from Newcomb down the path behind the
Morris Guest and Lee Jackson Houses to the
old Co—op. I found myself alone. The ghost-
town I saw surprised me. I remember being
there just last year and seeing throngs of
people. Instead of the huge crowds of
W&Lers fighting for attention, there was just
an old cup, some broken bricks and a few
hand—tools. How many alums remember the
Co-op the same way I do? The rumor is that
the building will now be used for storage in-
stead of the lively conversations it once
housed.

It is distressing to think that my fellow
students no longer use the porch overlooking
the ODK circle to just hang out. There is no
rule against it that I’m aware of. I’ve heard
that construction workers sit in the worn-out
wooden chairs on their breaks. Why can’t we
reclaim them?

In fact, the walk prompted an interesting
realization for me: the whole traffic pattern on
campus has been interrupted. There are some
students who haven’t even walked down the
colonnade yet this year. Instead, their main
drag is Stemmons Plaza behind the library.
This is a tragic loss.

The reason for the ﬂow—change is the John

Wild and Wonderful at Washington and Lee

W. Elrod Commons. Instead of walking to-
ward the Co-op, students now head to its spa-
cious rooms between classes. Its planners
succeeded. It is a beautiful facility that most
of us love using. It is never empty. There is
always a meeting being held or a book being
read under its roof. It is lacking, however.
There doesn’t seem to be one central place to
see and be seen. There’s no single place to
get “face-time.” There’s not even one place
to come into out of the building. The Com-
mons’ large size is at once empowering and
ominous. It is, as the Pat McGee song goes,
“perfectly not perfect.”

For all that it lacked, the old Co-op did
have one thing in its favor. That porch was
always packed. Because there was only one
place to watch the world go by, it was easy to
find friends (and avoid enemies). You always
knew where they were. In the commons,
though, there’s no telling where someone
might be lurking. There’s the living room, the
café, the marketplace, the student activities
suite and those computers. The list goes on.
Large numbers of nooks are great to have meet-
ings, but anyone who wants to be assured of
seeing everyone on campus has a challenge
in front of him. Without the porch on the Co-
op, where does the world go by? Does it even
go by at all?

So, my recommendation to everyone is

two-fold. Go sit on the Co-op porch. Ignore
the construction and sit down with a cup of

When youthinkof the W&L
student body, what states do
you think of? Virginia is of
course a sensible answer. Then
there’s the realization that W&L
is Westminster, the college years,
so Georgia would have to be up
there too. Of course, we can’t
forget Texas — doing so would
result in the entire Kappa Sig
house keying my already crappy
truck.
There’s a whole host 
of states in the
southland that send ‘

 

how great West Virginia really is.
When we win football games at
WVU, we don’t celebrate by
drinking at a bar. We burn furni-
ture. We light city streets on fire.
And when WVU beat Tech in
Blacksburg last year, WVU fans

in Morgantown celebrated by,

tearing down their own goal-
posts. Yes, they stormed their
own football ﬁeld and tore down

___________________________________________ __ the goal-

ABSOLUTFRATLORD pqsts for a
victory

_____  some 200
milesaway.

their share of resi-
dents to Lex Vegas. From the
north, we get a few students from
the “island,” and Pennsylvania
and Ohio can’t resist sending
their best and brightest (and a
few others?) to W&L as well.
But there is one state over-
looked in this grand menagerie
of geographical areas. It is the
35"‘ state, the greatest state of
the union. It’s Wild and Won-
derful. It’s West Virginia. ,
Afterl reveled in the Moun-
taineers stomping over those
heinous neutered-male turkeys
(in case you didn’t know what a
Hokie is), it got me thinking about

Being from West Virginia
brings its own unique phenom-
ena. At the WVU—UVATire Bowl
last December, Charlotte was
packed with some 40,000 WVU
fans. While a buddy and I
worked a case of Yuengling in a
downtown parking lot, we were
surrounded by Morgantown kids
doing keg stands, 40—something
couples cooking breakfast and
pounding back drinks, and a few
UVA fans who thought they had
stumbled into the end of civiliza-
tion. One group of adults kindly
offered us pancakes and some
fresh strawberries — by fresh, I

mean that the fruit had been
soaking in moonshine for god
knows how long. Where else
can you get that?

West Virginian pride is dif-
ferent from any other feeling. It’s
the kind of pride that lets us en-
joy all the stereotypes — sure, we
might have fewer teeth, we might
feel occasional amorous feelings
for our own family members, we
might prefer to park our cars on
cinder blocks instead of in ga-
rages. We get tons of ﬂak for
being from the Mountain State.
Some might be true. Some isn’t.
We’re proud either way.

W&L, with all its formalities
and appearances, is probably
the least West Virginian place I
can think of. But if you look
around, you’ll notice a collection
of West Virginia a1l—stars who
bring a little bit of Almost Heaven
to Lexington:

West Virginians control the
all—important intramural program.
All 5 sororities have at least one
West Virginian. The president
of PiKA hails from the Mountain
State. Mock Con’s King Dixie is
bona fide border trash. Rumor

has it that many of the hot fresh-

Just because the

coffee and a few friends.
Commons is so great doesn’t mean the Co-op
is gone forever. At least not yet. While you
are at it, take a stroll down the colonnade.

Anyone who doesn’t take
that walk at least once a week is making a

huge mistake. The colonnade is unques-
tionably the most valuable part of campus.
Just take a moment to look at the bricks and

man ladies are West Virginians
themselves. And let’s not forget
the man who grades your rallies
— our own esquire of Charleston.

If anything, my experience
at W&L has made me more con-
scious and proud of where I
come from. Freshman year, I felt
a certain satisfaction parking my
crappy truck next to 4 beamers
from Dekalb County. Now, with
Mock Con fast approaching,
state pride becomes a driving
force of W&L parties -— if there’s
anything I know about West Vir-
ginians, it’s that we know how
to party. The problem, however,
is that we can’t ﬁgure out how
to party without destroying
something.

To the rest of you, West Vir-
ginia may not mean all that much.
Maybe it’s only a place where
you frat boys can go buy grain.
Maybe it’s just that beloved
70mph speed zone that you ap-
preciate on 1-64 or I-81. But re-
ally, the Mountain State means
so much more. I’m only a north-
ern Virginia carpetbagger, but af-
ter l3 years as a t:rue—blue hick, I
know the real truth — if you warma
see perfection, just look west.

think about how many people and how many
years it has taken to ware them down. To
me, that's a beautiful thought. These are
just my ideas, what do you think?

Next week, I’ll relate some unbeliev—'

able stories from my police ride-along this
weekend. Guns, towing and fights, they
are all in a day’s (or night’s) work for the
great guys of the Lex-Po.

OldSchooI: the glue that binds us

BY STEVE LAMB
STAFF Wiu'rER

It had been a long time since a movie affected me
as profoundly as Old School did. While it provided me
with a purely superficial satisfaction, I definitely place
it up on my shelf of all—time greats among Forest Gump,
Tombstone, Jerry Maguire, and the Big Lebowski.

However, I’m not here to discuss the movie’s un-
disputable excellence, we all accept that Old School
stands securely as a great cinematic work. For those
individuals out there who have not yet seen this in-
stant classic, see it, you will have an awesome time.
And if you already have a nice little day planned and
you just don’t know if you are going to have time, get
out, find a copy (almost every freshmen guy room owns
at least one copy) and get ready.

Here is my theory; I believe that an overwhelming
majority of collegiate males ages 17-22 feel the same
way that I do about Old School, or, at a bare minimum,
they’ve seen it and enjoyed it. Old School is the glue
that binds so to speak. Almost every guy (and a fair.
number of ladies) from my home town as well as this
prestigious institution of higher learning can give at
least one quote. Entire relationships have been formed
solely on the basis of shared love of the Old School;
it is truly the gift. that keeps on giving. Pulling out a
few lines at a party can give you all kinds of street
credit, not to mention hours of entertainment. To all
my fellow Old School fans out there, keep on truck-
ing; and to all those yet to experience this master-
piece, you already know, it will change you forever.

For Traveller: 458-8900*

*We have heard that some students do not know the Traveller phone number. Now, there’s no excuse.

 

TS

Q Stacy’s mom may have it going on, but, guys,
let’s keep our hands off the hot moms this week-
end.

Q Shout out to the stud freshman who reported
an honor code violation. The freshmen contacted
E.C. President Helen “The Face that Launched a
Thousand Ships” Hughes and stated, “I have an
honor code violation to report. The day I met you,
you stole my heart.”

Q More on the E.C.: Last year’s freshmen never
bothered Titus the way this year’s bother Helen.

Q Why can’t we hire cooks in the D-Hall that
know how to make something other than stir fry?

Q Ben Losi = Super Mario

Q The athletic department’s most treasured fan-
tasy is the complete and sudden disappearance of
the riding team.

Q I have never been to a lecture in Lee Chapel
without wanting to hang myself from boredom.

Q Who in the world works on the ﬁre alarms at
midnight? Do they not realize people are trying to
study?

Q It’s nice to see a new party idea come along
once in a while. Thanks to Chi Psi for being bold
enought to pull off one of the year’s best parties.

Q TFC: We’re not in high school anymore . . .

Q The freshman girl who is staying in the Phi Psi
house should be paying rent.

Q Rob Kirwan, I have to say, owned Penny Lane.
He is the best beer pong player in the history of the
world.

Q The Board of Trustees says it will make the
Spring Term decision based on “fmancial criteria.”
Spring Term: prepare for burnination.

Q The public section of the Pyongyang Metro is
far smaller than the portion reserved for secret mili-
tary and government use.

Q Sheryl Silvers proved this weekend that she is
better than most at stabbing people.

Q Can you imagine having an elephant “ﬁxed?”
Does the vet use hedge clippers?

Q The lax girls owned the parents in ﬂip cup.
Does an undefeated season here mean another
undefeated season later?

Q Why do paper cuts hurt so much? They’re
such small cuts, after all.

Q Three cheers for the weather. But, are we go-
ing to make up for it this VVinter?

Q According to a recent study, fans of the Oprah
Winfrey Show are twice as likely to be unable to
cope with the stress in their lives as non-fans.

Q P. Diddy is running a marathon. Did he train
running from the police?

Q RCHS Wildcats Marching Band is still better
than a piped in recording of the W&L Swing.

Q Motown at SAE for Parents’ Weekend? Was
Widespread already booked?

Q ‘Good news, ladies: Pumpkinseeds now sells
Lilly!

Q Bad news, ladies: Most of what she has left is
Surmner or Resort wear and can’t be worn until next
year.

Q Will you marry me?
Q Other than ﬁsh and hate, what can be monged?

Q Special thanks to the all of the bidders for mak-
ing the Mock Con Silent Auction a smashing suc-
cess.

Q More on Mock Con: There is a black—tie gala
on Friday, November 14. Find a date.

Q In re: balls of years past: The 1923 Calyx
lists 11 school wide black-tie balls and cotillions
held during the year. It’s too bad we only have
one.

Q CASA? SARAH? FAIR? RACAS? MetroLex
really has the best. acronyms.

Q Does Lexington really need a second coffee
shop? Bring back the tattoo parlor!

Q Congratulations Eden Parks. We were pulling
for you.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and tales

 

