(sieves
R552

1 ‘I’. /Gé
me. !:>

R WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

G-TUM

liiestndent voice ofWasbington and Lee University since 1897

VOLUME Clill,l\lo.\llH I5

lknDARInEnnER&2dB

Mys erious hief swipes several ex books from he C-school

BY KAELA HARMON
STAFF WRITER

Recently, there has been a rash of thefts in the
Commcerce-school. One victim, Akshat Shah, a
senior economics major, returned to campus from
Thanksgiving break, he discovered that three of
his textbooks were missing from his storage cubby
on the third ﬂoor of the C—school.

His first thought was that he had simply mis-
placed them but by Monday afternoon the Associ-
ate Dean of the C—Schoo1, Rob Straughan, had re-
ceived several other reports of missing books, and
it became apparent that Shah was not alone.

Dean Straughan said that he had received
at least seven reports of missing textbooks.
Most of them are the accounting book used in

University hopes

to use Co-op, Dupont

Professor Elizabeth Oliver’s intermediate account-
ing class, however a Math Economics book, a statis-
tics book, and a management informational systems
(MIS) book have also been reported as missing.

With the accounting book itself selling for
$106.25 used and $141.50 new that’s well over $500
in stolen books.

In response to the reports, Dean Straughan sent
word to students and faculty in the C—Schoo1 via e-
mail making them aware of the problem and asking
that students report any missing to security and to
professors. “Stuff like this happens from time to
time”, Straugh said. In the mean time, “we’ve tried
to make copies of the material.”

Because her class was most affected, Professor
Oliver contacted the publishing company’s repre-
sentative about replacing the books. Professor

Oliver said that the publishing company was kind
enough to send complimentary copies of the ac-
counting book. The books arrived Friday.

As of now there are no solid leads as to who
might have taken the books although politics Pro-
fessor Bill Connelly did recall that around the time
that the books had been reported stolen a man came
by his ofﬁce, introduced himself as a book buyer and
asked him if he had any books he wanted to sell.

“All Iknow is that I had never seen him before,
and my ofﬁee is just a few doors down from where [
I understand] the books were stolen. Hence I re-
ported my suspicion and a description to Mike
Young.”

Young, head of security said that he does
not believe that the culprit is a student or anyone
closely associated with the school who knows

and respects the Honor System. Executive Com-
mittee President, Helen Hughes, shares Young’s
opinion.

“It’s hard for me to believe it could be a

student [but] if it is a student stealino the
books it would be considered an Honor Viola-

tion,” said Hughes.

At this point Young has said that security is
doing everything that they can and asks that all
missing books be reported to security.

He also asks that any suspicious looking
people be reported.

“Students have to remember that we have a
large number of visitors on the campus and that
they [students] shouldn’t leave expensive items lay-
ing around. The best way we can protect ourselves
is you have to protect your sniff,” said Young.

Snow hits Lexington campus ‘opens for business,’

Physical Plant workers ‘scramble’ to clear paths

for more classroom space

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Rumors of the co-op’s de-
mise have been spreading
across campus in the past few
months leaving students con-
fused and upset.

According to Tom
Contos, University Architect,
however, that is not the case
at this time. The future of both
the Co—op and Dupont Hall re-
main in question. “Academic
uses are our main focus,”
stated Contos.

The Co—op was built in
1911 and has a wood frame
with a brick exterior. The origi-
nal purpose of the co—op was
to house a 120 seat dining hall
on the first ﬂoor and bedrooms
upstairs for the kitchen staff.
The back section of the build-
ing, facing Graham Lees was
added in the 1960’s to house
the bookstore.

A few years ago, the Uni-
versity looked into converting
the Co—op into additional
classroom space for the over-
crowded Williams School.

Washington and Lee also
looked into building an addi-
tion on to the Williams School
to house additional class-
rooms.

Both options, however,
were too costly and the Univer-
sity decided to rework the space
in the C School and take the large
library of the school and con-
vert it into two classrooms and a
smaller library instead.

Renovations for this project
took place over the summer.

Dupont Hall was built on
a tight budget in 1954. The
school built Dupont Hall in
the cheapest way possible by
using a concrete block con-
struction instead of steel.
This makes re-designing the
space nearly impossible.

The University has con-
cluded that the core of the
campus needs to be reserved
for academic use. This means
that administrative offices
would need to be moved off
of the Colonnade and the
Plaza. Ideally, this would
mean that both the Co—op and
Dupont Hall would be used
for an academic function.

The academic function of
the Co—op would most likely
be offices while the function
of Dupont Hall would be of-
fices in addition to new,
“smart” classrooms.

The University is experi-
encing an office crunch as a
result of the hiring of new
faculty, on-leave faculty, and
phased retirement. The smart
classrooms in Dupont Hall
would create better classroom
space.

Possible demolitions are
being looked into for the most
effective use of space. Wash-
ington and Lee is getting ready
to hire an architect and engineer
to do a feasibility study of the
two buildings.

A report to the board on
these two buildings is expected
to be given in February.

FILE 1

Dupont. One day, this hall will offer “smart classrooms” to students

BY JEB BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Students, faculty and staff
woke up on Friday morning to a
snow covered Lexington. By the
time most of the campus com-
munity first saw the snow, ad-
ministrators had made the deci-
sion to open for “business as
usual.”

Provost Tom Williams, Vice
President Joe Grasso and Direc-
tor of the Physical Plant Scott
Beebe met early on Friday mom-
ing to make a decision regard-
ing the opening of campus.

Beebe had been in touch
with Physical Plant workers who
worked all night to stay on top
of the effects of the snowfall.

According to Williams, who
drove in from west of town, “the
local roads were more than just
passable.”

Administrators checked
weatlier.com as well.

The call to keep the campus
up-and-running was made be-
tween 5:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.

The campus community
was alerted by a broadcast email
that was sent at 7:39 a.m.; the
email called on everyone to “use
your best judgment of your 10-

cal circumstances when making
a decision to come to campus.”
VVi1liams said that, “not getting
here is a forgivable offense.”
That mercy extended to students,
faculty and staff.

The cost of the snow event
to The University is, “built into
budgets,” according to Williams.

According to Williams,
“Washington and Lee rarely
shuts down for snow.”

Williams remembers the
campus closing for a storm that
hit Lexington seven years ago.
The closure lasted two days.
There was a travel danger related
to the blizzard, but the real rea-
son for the closure was that, “Vir-
ginia power asked us to cut
power in any way we could.” The
storm caused a rolling brownout
in the area, and Washington and

Lee was consuming too much.

power.

Williams speaks of one local
legend regarding the closure of
campus. President Coles, who
came from the University of
Georgia, cancelled classes af-
ter a gentle snowfall. He sub-
sequently suffered years of
condemnation by the board of
trustees and other campus offi-
cials. Decision makers ever

JEB BROOKS/ THE RING TI/MPH1

Working hard. Maintenance workers arose early Friday morning in
order to clear safe paths for students all over campus. One worker called
the nasty Winter ahead “job security.”

since have been weary of clos-
ing the colonnade because of
weather.

Physical Plant worker Alan
Black referred to the forecasted
bad winter ahead as “job security.”

Worker ﬁles complaint of unsafe working conditions

BY ERIN Juuus
NEWS EDITOR

Since the construction of
the Elrod Commons, some stu-
dents and employees claim to
have felt tremors within the
building. A formal complaint
was ﬁled by a University em-
ployee with the Occupational
Safety Hazard Act/Adrr1inistra—
tion.

The complaint listed sev-
eral objections to the new con-
struction, the most serious be-
ing that the Commons is sub-
ject to tremors and is just gen-
erally poorly designed.

According to University
Safety Officer Paul Burns, the

Commons was monitored on
Wednesday.

“Nearly all the items were
resolved or deemed not to be a
violation," said Joe Grasso, Vice
President for Administration.

A high noise level in the
dish-washing area was one of
the complaints listed. After
Wednesday, OSHA official de-
termined that the noise levels
were not up to an “action” level
in the dish-washing area.

As for the noise level in the
Cafe Emporium it wass, “no—

where near what would cause us ’

to take action,” said Burns.

Burns blamed the
noise level, “on dishes clinking
together,” he said.

Poor design of equipment
in the Commons was another
complaint, but this is not an
OSHA issue.

Burns said the University
would continue to address this
issue with employees. The com-
plaint of a broken glass panel at
the salad bar was also deter-
mined not to be an OSHA issue.

The Commons Elevator was
cited as malfunctioning, which
Bums says is, “always a poten-
tial problem” with new buildings.

Tremors in the building, per-
haps the most serious issue re-
ferred to in the OSHA complaint,
did not turn up a citation.

“I myself haven't felt any-
thing like that,” said Burns. Ac-

cording to Burns, buildings move
after they are built and such a
phenomenon is not an OSHA is-
sue.

The only possible OSHA
violation was in regards to the
ﬂoor drains.

This complaint has, “been
addressed previously by the
school and the contractor,” said
Burns.

OSHA states that its mis-
sion is to, “to save lives, pre-
vent injuries and protect the
health of America’s workers.

To accomplish this, federal
and state governments must
work in partnership with the more
than 100 million working men and
women.”

Traveller’s services tailored to your needs

BY KATIE HENDERSON
TRAVELLER PUBLIC RELATIONS DIRECTOR

Traveller changed its driving routine for the period sparming
from Thanksgiving break to Christmas break.

The Traveller Committee launched a two-week trial period as
an attempt to make the current system more effective.

Now, any student can call the Traveller number at 458-8900
seven nights a week from 10pm until 2am and a car will be dis-

patched to the student’s location.

Vans traveling on the set route will still run on Wednesday,

Friday, and Saturday nights.

The Traveller committee hopes this period will be a better use
of its resources. The committee’s primary goal is to best serve

students’ needs.

Please contact any of its members with any questions, con-

cerns or suggestions.

Traveller also implemented a first-ever program for Christmas
Weekend. Students pledged not to drink or drive for the weekend
and were entered in a drawing to win a surprise personal celebrity

sober driver.

CORBIN BLACK}-‘ORD / Tl-IERINGMP

Vroom. Traveller vans are well-known by Washington and Lee students
for providing a welcome sober ride during prime party hours.

The program was considered a success with 320 participants and
Traveller thanks Dean of Students Dawn Watkins for participat as the
driver. The winner of the drawing was Senior BJ Conrad.

Traveller is planning several more campus—wide events for next term.

  

miss a. more no.» s 
WA&‘lNE§*\i.t94' ii  witt,ﬁ’~ri“:"/
."r?‘.*e, V"! 

DEC I i 

PAGE 2

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

Applebome discusses ‘ intense competition’

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF WRITER

Peter Applebome, deputy metropolitan edi-
tor of The New York Times, came to Washington
& Lee last Tuesday to address the effects of the
Jayson Blair scandal on news media. i

Jayson Blair, formerly a New York Times re-
porter, became famous in May 2003 when the
newspaper’s management announced that the 27-
year-old had plagiarized the work of others, “fab-
ricated comments” and “concocted scenes” dur-
ing his four years with the paper.

“He’s been depicted as a tragic ﬁgure, this
brilliant young journalist on the way up,”
Applebome said. “He was never a brilliant
young journalist. He was just a loveable screw-
up.”

In discussing “The Press After Jayson Blair”,
Applebome made it clear that no new problems
have been created for news media. The chief
effect of Blair's deception was to draw attention
to problems that already existed as a result of
intense competition and arrogance.

“Pressure to succeed and stay ahead of the
pack is incredibly intense,” said Applebome of
the ever-increasing competition among media for
readers and viewers. The upshot: an aggres-
sive, achievement-oriented newsroom in major
papers such as the Times, with the pressure for
results falling on reporters’ shoulders.

Blair received respect from his Times col-
leagues because he seemed to be a driven re-
porter who put in long hours. In reality, he never

Bonners give 900 hours of service

Interdepartmental 101, Introductory to
Poverty, Shepherd Poverty will sponsor
their involvement in the Shepherd Alli-
ance summer program.

“It is an honor to work with such
talented, dedicated, thoughtful and re-

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF WRITER

With major service groups such as
Nabors Service League, S.A.R.A.H., and
Alpha Phi Omega on campus, it’s simple
enough for Washington and Lee students
to serve their community. Now, however,
there is another option. Few students

visited many of the locations listed in his by-
lines, nor did he interview many of his ‘sources’.
Much of his information was lifted from the
Internet, some directly from other journalists’
work. Applebome knows now that in response
to a high-pressure environment, the young re-
porter “imbibed the gospel of achievement to this
perverted degree.”

“We talk a good game of family values and
‘it’s important to have a life’ ,” Applebome admit-
ted. “But the guy who works 8 hours does better
than the guy who works 4 hours. And the guy
who works 16 hours is pretty hard to beat.”

A In attempts to gain a
larger audience, media of-
ten focus on scandals or
popular celebrities, some-
times for weeks at a time.
Coverage this narrow
damages the quality and
comprehensiveness of the
news. According to
Applebome, today’s news culture is like a pa-
rade with elaborate floats, such as O.J.
Simpson’s trial, President Clinton’s impeach-
ment, or the death of John F. Kennedy, Jr. Each
ﬂoat commands the public’s entire attention un-
til the next spectacle appears on the horizon.

While ambition provided a motive for Blair’s
actions, conceit allowed it to happen. “The big-
gest sin of the media, top to bottom, is just arro-
gance,” Applebome said.

Several major newspapers employ an om-
budsman who acts a liaison between the paper’s

“The biggest sin of the media, top
to bottom, is just arrogance,”
PETERAPPLEBOME

audience and its editors, handling readers’ con-
cerns and questions. The Times never took this
step, believing that its reliability was regulated
in other ways. While magazines employ fact-
checkers, this method is impossible at a newspa-
per with a daily or weekly deadline. Editors and
sources alike must put their faith in the integrity
of reporters.

“This business is, to a certain extent, based
on trust,” noted Applebome.

In this case, that trust was taken too far. The
Jayson Blair story is underscored with the fact
that signs of his falsiﬁcation appeared long be-
fore his dismissal and
were ignored. Most no-
tably, his record of correc-
tions was three times
higher than the Times av-
erage.

How could nobody
have noticed? Certainly
some editors did, but the
highest levels of Times management paid no at-
tention to their observations. Then-metro editor
Jonathan Landman even sent a memo to other
mid-level editors which stated, “We have to stop
Jayson from writing for the Times. Right now.”
No action was taken.

In light of this knowledge, suggestions have
been raised in the media that Blair's African—Ameri-
can heritage prevented his dismissal. Applebome
ﬁrmly denied this, calling race “a very small part of
the Jayson Blair story. He had a better chance of
getting in the door because he’s black. That’s all.”

in media  

In a Times staff meeting after the scandal broke,
editor Howell Raines admitted that he might have
given Blair “one chance too many” out of a desire to
uphold the paper’s “commitment to diversity”.

The Blair scandal eroded the 7imes’traditional
pride, and signiﬁcant changes have been enacted
since then to minimize the paper’s weaknesses. A
new member of staff, the public editor, now plays an
ombudsman-like role in what Applebome calls “a
huge effort...to be more responsive to readers”.
Raines and his managing editor Gerald Boyd have
been replaced. In the wake of these l1igh—level per-
sonnel shifts, management training has dramatically
developed to foster the idea of the Times as a corpo-
rate enterprise. In the newsroom itself, editors take
more care to inquire after sources and facts. Ac-
cording to Applebome, “Jayson forced everyone to
rethink their assumptions about their colleagues.”

“If we don't protect our own house, we
won’t have one, or at least we won’t have one
worth living in,” Applebome added.

Applebome believes that today’sTimes com-
bines these new measures with long-estab-
lished quality to maintain a top-notch newspa-

per. “People do their jobs with a rigor and a dedica-
tion that is almost scary.”

Applebome, a native of New York, has writ-
ten for The Dallas Morning News and has been
head of the Atlanta bureau of The New York
Times. His books include Dixie Rising, which
examines the effect of the South on the nation’s
culture and politics, and Scout’s Honor, a de-
scription of his experiences in the Boy Scouts
with his son.

Hidden Hero: Daniel Vos tutors,
Works with employment services

Vos has volunteered all around the world, from Richmond to Tanzania

know of it and fewer can get into it-—the
Bonner Leaders are the unseen service
organization on campus, but their pres-
ence in the community is as strong as
any other.

Bonner Leaders are facu1ty-recom-
mended students who engage in two
years of concentrated s_ervice—900
hours, between 8  15 per weekéand
are recognizedwith scholarships from the
university and from Americorps Educa-
tion Awards. The program is highly se-
lective—only 1600 students nationwide
are members of Bonner Leaders or its sis-
ter program, Bonner Scholars.

“As the program develops further,
the Shepherd Program anticipates Bonner
Leaders becoming a recognizable force
on campus,” said Avery Gholston, Com-
munity Service Coordinator and adviser
for the Bonner Leaders program.

The program, a child of the Bonner
Institute in Princeton, New Jersey, places
each member with specific service oppor-
tunities. Students work only at one or
two sites in order to maximize the posi-
tive changes they produce. Since ser-
vice continues year-round, most partici-
pate in one local program during school
and another during the summer. Programs
include Head Start, Project Horizon, and
Hoofbeats Therapeutic Riding Center,
among others. If members have taken

THE NEXT ISSUE OF THE RING-
TUM PHI WILL BE PRINTED
JANUARY 12, 2004

‘Me Cutting
Edge

Complete if air Care for
Men anti‘!/1/omen

Styé Cuts
Cfipper Cuts

Complete Qotfy Care

{Manicure
(Pedicure
Waxing

117 W Welson St.
Lexington, ‘V/'4
463-9588

ﬂective students,” said Gholston. BY JORDAN ANDERSON Vos is a Classics ma-

Sophomore Sarah Weil, who works STAFF WRHER jor, and he plans on us-
primarily at Hoofbeats and Head Start, ing this major to assist in
has found the experience to be en1ight- Senior Daniel Vos is a student who his goal of teaching inter-
ening. “When I come back after volun- has found many ways to help the com- nationally, particularly in

teering, I am grateful that I only have to
worry about writing a research paper or
studying for a test,” Weil said. “The
stress of college is a privilege compared
to worrying about living with a physi-
cal, mental, or emotional handicap.”

Weil has been ‘named 12003 Vo1un- pi p
, teer of the Year by Hoofbeats Riding

Center. ‘

27 schools sponsor a Bonner Lead-
ers program, including Princeton, Ber-
keley, Rutgers, and UCLA. At each of
these programs, six ideals form the ba-
sic philosophy: social justice, spiritual
exploration, diversity, civic engage-
ment, community building, and inter-
national perspective. Students who
show themselves to be committed to
these values receive semester-based
scholarships as well as payment for
summer internships, all of which are
sponsored by the Bonner Institute but
funded by individual universities and
Americorps.

There are currently eight Bonner
Leaders at Washington and Lee. Ap-
proximately ﬁve more openings have
been made available to applicants this
year. Bonner Leaders are selected at
the beginning of Winter Term. The
process requires a faculty recommen-
dation, an application, and an interview.

munity locally and internationally
through his various efforts in service.
He has spent much of his free time
helping others and exploring the ar-
eas around him to get a local and in-
ternational feel of community.

' Following his freshmen A year,
Daniel spent his summer in Tanzania‘
with his Church doing service through
construction and educating the com-
munity there. This seemed to spark
his interest in actively helping those
in need.

He has spent the past two sum-
mers working in a volunteer program
through the Shephard Poverty Pro-
gram in Richmond. There, he worked
directly with refugees from around the
globe, including places such as Af-
ghanistan. Through this experience he
got to know many of the people he
was helping, including the Sudanese
refugees he spent the summer shar-
ing an apartment with and helping to
educate.

Currently, Daniel continues to
show a desire to help people by tutor-
ing students in need in the Rockbridge
area, as well as working with the
Rockbridge Supported Employment
program, which assists people in find-
ing jobs.

a place like Tanzania.

Vos chose to major
in Classics solely out of
interest; however, he
feels that it represents

“‘the best thoughts that
people have thought
I through, the ages.”

' He mentioned Pro-
fessor Beckley’s courses
on poverty as well as In-
troduction to Political
Philosophy taught by
Professor Velasquez as
some of the best classes
that he had experienced.

After college, Daniel,
a Detroit native, plans
first on working with the
“Teach for America” pro-
gram, which arranges for qualiﬁed in-
dividuals to teach in underprivileged
schools. He hopes to teach in the ar-
eas around Detroit for at least two
years, before pursuing his intema-
tional teaching goals.

VV1th regards to his international
focus, he encourages all to “think
outside the box, have a big vision of
the future, and to educate yourself
about the world.” He stressed that
just by going outside W&L you can

INSPEREH or our sons, soars  

 

meet people you wou1dn’tnorrnally
meet.

Vos’s biggest complaint about
Washington and Lee was just that
the student body does focus inward
a lot. However, he also said that the
professors challenge this tendency
quite a bit.

Though his life is hectic at the
moment, the biggest piece of advice
for everyone — especially seniors
— was to simply “take time to relax.”

Seats fire, has 53 strain
feet of cargo space, and
is auaiiaéhie with 1183 hp
and 3 5-sneer: manual
shift. Eran evolution
sari’! fatty explain it.

$332 TE’-l".';£i.i%.   i.£35ﬁ.... 3533.  iii‘?

 

Cﬂise to Campus
Q’rqfessiona[.S'albn witli a
(Persona[‘Toucﬁ!

EEG         P?ii'i.‘-l.UilES

.  .ii.i.*E? éiiﬁiiilitéiiﬁ 5&1. E1*s.€li.}3ES 

 ..  Eiiﬁé  r’1!.'-iii? §i3;i§riﬁl.ii?é’ 
  ?§E§i>lé.Eii Fiﬁ WY ‘t3‘tE‘i.

 
 
 

*1. 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

S’: ‘ :E~’.rx-2::~':t,tvri’t~r:
AFF EDITORIAL

Use caution when posting
campus notices

Campus notices are apublic fomm for
sharing information. Many students, fac-
ulty and staff reap the beneﬁts of the sys-
tem.

It is a great venue for getting ir1for-
mation out about what gets lost over the
weekend. It is not a great venue for
commenting on what fellow students
have lost. By writing notices about no-
tices, submitters only detract from the
effectiveness of the program. Too many
notices are not a good thing.

The beneﬁts to campus organiza-
tions are endless. The ability to quickly
and easily make the entire Washington
and Lee campus aware of important in-
formation is fantastic. It only works,
however, if groups release only critical
information. Campus notices must be
a secondary system. If an email list of
group members exists, use that before
concerning the entire campus with club-
related problems.

The effects of the deterioration of
campus notices have ﬁnther implications.
Broadcast emails, sent to everyone’s
email account have increased When the
Executive Committee or some other
group wants to send critical information
they bypass campus notices because stu-
dents do not read them. Instead of us-
ing a single email for all information, some
groups have to resort to further clogging
of student inboxes.

Don’t get us wrong, we love the oc-
casional side-splitting addition to ourmorn-
ing routines just as much as the next guy.
Our concern lies with the wasted notices
that provide no beneﬁt to readers.

In short, campus notices must be
brief and provide relevant information
only.

 

“I’d like to be able to check in to the

Paris Hilton.”

-SNLCastMember
Jimmy Fallon on the hotel in Paris, and
certainly nothing else.

 

"'."""'-\j‘«'r\. ‘:7’ .\;';‘v’  '

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan

Photography Editor Cody Gabbard

Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Hilary Henry

Emily Edwards

Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

 

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Editorial Director Katie J, Howell

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Hem-y G1-imball
Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a
member of The Publications Board, but is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to plri@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week's edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Wrginia 24450

Telephone.‘ (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

  

  

CAIEYANDEsoN
OnN1orsEr>n0r

mm m

     

 Sweatshops

PAGE 3

 

LONG A CRUSADE OF COLLEGE CAMPUSES, A NEW UPSWELL OF SUPPORT FOR SWEATSHOPS HAS AWAKENED IN RECENT YEARS. TODAY, THE PHI ASKS:

Yes

TRAN KIM, ‘O5

She starts work at about 6:30 in the morning and doesn’t get off until 7 at
night with only a half an hour for a lunch break in the middle and does this six
days a week. While working, she has injured herself twice when needles went
through her hands. This is the experience of one woman interviewed by New
York Times journalists Nicholas Kristof and Sheryle WuDurm in an article
titled “Two Cheers for Sweatshops.” Yet she is grateful for her job. As
appalling as the conditions faced by workers in the sweatshops are, I am
against boycotting them for the purpose of ending them altogether.

First, sweatshops bring globalization and progress to developing coun-
tries. If China’s 30 provinces were counted as individual countries, then the
continent would have had 20 of the fastest growing countries in the world
between 1978 and 1995. So far, its per capita output has been doubling
every 10 years. In addition, many of the vibrant parts of the country are
located in what is called the “Sweatshop Belt.” The World Bank has also
conﬁrmed growth from sweatshops in industrial nations such as China,
South Korea,.Indonesia, and India and projected that Asia’s share of global
domestic product will rise from 55% to 60% by 2025. To put these ﬁgures
into perspective, that is roughly the West’s share at its industrial peak half
a century ago.

Secondly, sweatshops provide poor people in industrial nations
with jobs they would not otherwise have and enable them to acquire
a better life that they would otherwise not have. George Apenteng,
the director of Ghana’s Institute for Economic Affairs, said, “People
here want into the global marketplace; they know it’s the only way
out of poverty.” The International Labor Organization in a report
titled “Labour Practices in the Footwear, Leather, Textiles and Cloth-
ing Industries” found that the sweatshop industries in Asia and South
and Central America have been a major source of employment for
women in low-wage economies. For an impoverished Indonesian or
Bangladeshi woman with a handful of kids, $1 or $2 a day makes a
huge difference in her ability to provide for her children.

Thirdly, if sweatshops were to be shut down, then what would
happened to the people employed by them? These individuals would
have to resort to other means of getting financial stability, and one of
the tragic consequences has been child prostitution. In many third
world nations parents from low income families sell their children
into child prostitution to get money and to decrease the number of
mouths they must feed. In these areas, there aren’t many options but
the sweatshops do offer an option.

Another point we need to consider is that the lifestyles to which
we’re accustomed are foreign to those living in third world nations.
They can live on $1 or $2 a day whereas we can’t even survive one
hour on that kind of money. However, I do not fully support sweat-
shops. On the contrary, I think many reforms are in order, but boy-
cotting them in an attempt to force closure is not the answer and is
more harmful than helpful. The people living in third world nations
need more help than guilty Westerners refusing to buy goods from
Nike and Reebok. Until they get that help, sweatshops provide a
means of survival.

Rebuttal from Anderson

Sweatshops do not help the people they employ economically. It
is true that the third world countries that have sweatshops experience
general economic progress, but as I mentioned in my primary argu-
ment, this growth largely goes to urban centers and the middle class
by creating confidence in more advanced business in outside inves-
tors (i.e., the tech boom in India) rather than actually helping the
unskilled lower classes who work in the sweatshop. And without the
wages they need, they’H never “graduate” to higher callings.

The argument that the poor people who work in sweatshops would
perish or be forced into horrible tragedies such as child prostitution
is null and void because this happens very, very often even to people
who already work in sweatshops. True, $1 or $2 is better than noth-
ing, but not by much. The average need for income from Tran’s
impovershed Indonesian or Bangladeshi woman with a handful of
kids is at least $7, according to United Nations research. While sweat-
shops do keep people from being unemployed, this is little comfort
when they resort to selling their children anyway because their wages
aren’t enough. »

The claim that third world nation residents can live on $1 or $2 a
day is not backed up by any sort of hard evidence, and additionally,
is simply false. As I have repeatedly cited, the United Nations, as
well as the various labor departments of these poor nations’ govern-
ments, puts the need for income of the average sweatshop worker at
a minimum of $6

I, like Tran, don’t want to eliminate light industry in developing
countries completely. But the large conglomerates that own sweat-
shops do need to be persuaded that wages must be raised, maltreat-
ment must end, and hours must be reduced if these poor individuals
are to be given what they need to participate in an advanced economy-
a little spending money, their dignity and security, and time for edu-
cation.

Do SWEATSHOPS REALLY MAKE SENSE?

No

CALEY ANDERSON, ‘O6

Sweatshops, on the smface, have the very plausible beneﬁt of improving the host
nation’s economy. People point to U.S. History, and how sweatshops “improved the
economy. Thisispmﬁallymre,butasIwﬂlshow,sweatshopstomoremhindereconr>
miesthanhelpthem. WhileIdon’tthinktheyshouldbeelin1inatedaltogether,Ithink
they should undergo so much reform as to not desave the natne “sweatshops” any-
11118.

Itstandstoreasonthatifsweatshops didindeedallowfortheadvancetoahigh—
tech industry and service economy, sweatshops would be non-existent or rare in First
Wodd countries. Butthisis notthecase. Sweatshops arejustas prevalentintheG8 (the
largest at Western econonries) as they are in the poorest nations of the world Let’s
take our very own United States, and let’s pick as an industry textiles, a typical sweat-
shopindustry. lheU.S.Depar1mentofLaborestirrratesthatoutofthe22,0(X)orso
sewingshopsintheUnitedStates,atleast l1,000areingrossviolatiorrofminirmnrrwage
and overtime laws. At least 16,000, the Dept. ofLabor says, are in gross violation ofbasic
safetyandhealthlaws. Whatdoesthatmakethoseshops? Sweatshops. Andthey
comprisemor'etlranlra1foftlreU.S. textileindustry. Infact,theU.S.transitiontoan
advancedeconomymﬂycameAFIER[xogressivemfmmsmﬂreeaﬂy20mCennny
actually outlawed sweatshop conditions and improved education So, while sweat-
shops may indeedbe very good forthe higher—ups in a developing economy, who can
taketheirproﬁtofexploitationanduse ittoinvestinmoreadvanced economic pursuits,
the lower-downs suﬁa even worse. India, for instance, seems to be growing a high-tech
jobmarket. But forthe poor, it’s fool’s goldThehigh-tech jobsarebeingtakenbypeople
whowerealready’ 0 members} oftheupperclasses,mosto_fthemresidenq tsinrnajorlndian
cities.  wee probably ﬁnanced (directlyorindirectly) by the lower class’
sweatshop economy. One might assume that with more high-tech jobs comes fewer
sweatshops, but this is wrong. The lower classes suffer even more. The number of
sweatshopsinlndiahas actuallyincreasedby 32% since2000, by admission ofhrdia’s
owngovemrnent AIlthisdoesisprovidea“bettereconom)?’fortlrerichwhilemakirrg
it even worse for the poor.

Sweatshop proponents also add that the workers are “fme” with the
wage they are paid, since they are used to living in conditions of abject
poverty. This is an out-and-out lie, and the people who tell it are either
malicious or ill-inforrned. Yes, they CAN live on much less per day. But not
that much less. Let’s take the average Haitian who works at a Disney factory
located in Port-Au-Prince. According to the United Nations, their pay per day
is $2.15. Their living expenses (for themselves, not counting their families) are
more than $6.

So what’s the solution? The large conglomerates like Nike have the power
to simply end it right now. All they have to do is keep the middleman (the guy
who owns the factory) from exploiting the workers. While a wage rate of $5/hr.
is out of the question (since workers CAN live on less in those countries), they
should earn at least the living wage for their own expenses, and maybe a little
extra for savings and their family. $10/day (or $1/hr) seems fair. And are unsafe
working conditions and maltreatment of workers just to cut costs really neces-
sary? I’m sure that Nike will survive the slight decrease in proﬁts that they will
suffer by treating people humanely.

So, as you can see, light industry does have a place in developing econo-
mies. But sweatshops as they exist today are merely wringing economic viabil-
ity from the worker and giving it to people who don’t need it. Reform, massive
reform, is called for.

Rebuttal from Kim

Simply because a practice beneﬁts one group disproportionately more
than another group does not mean that it is wrong. Unfortunately, that is
economics. But the little money that does go to the little people does help
them, and that fact cannot be denied. If you worked in high school, you
might remember that you probably did much more work than your superi-
ors and earned far less, but simply because your boss got 20 times more
than you did doesn’t mean that the amount you got wasn’t helpful. We
can argue about how unfair that situation is until we’re blue, but the
reality is that you were better off with whatever little pay you got rather
than nothing at all, and the typical high school worker eventually gets a
better job. I am arguing that that is the situation for most of the people
working in the sweatshops.

lhemgrmremﬂratsweatshopsmebadbecauseonegroupberreﬁtsfartoomuch
fmrnitisweakmxiiﬂogicalifdecmualcmwenrisfmﬂreweﬂ-bdngofﬁremrpovcrished
peoplemﬂresenaﬁmrs.IdnnkIcanmasmrablyassrmreﬂntmostofmewmkersm
Westemsweatslmpsmeﬂlegalmmigrantswhomnnmoderwiseﬁndemploynmnt
becauseoftheirlackofdocumentation Myfatherandlwereonceinthatsituation
becausewewereiHegalahmsmCambodiawlnlewewmeescapingﬁom\6euramas
refugees,andlcanassmeyouthatwhatevermeagajobthatwecouldgetrmderthe
tablewasbetterthannothing. Aﬁerhavingspokentomydad(whoisﬁomV1etnam, the
horneofmany sweatshops itself) aboutthis issue, Icansaythatthepeople who work
in the sweatshops are thankful for the opportunity regardless of how difﬁcult
the work may be. They have little understanding of economics, and I do point
this out to say that they are not aware of their “suffering.”

It is the responsibility of informed citizens like us to orchestrate an inter-
national effort to reform sweatshops if we truly care, but not to end them. I
agree that change needs to happen, and I don’t know what the right approach
is and how we get the corporations to reform, but I know that it requires a
strategy in which the corporation sees the improved conditions as beneﬁcial
to their financial endeavors. So I hope and pray that the situation changes for
the better and that we will be a part of this effort.

 

 

PAGE 4

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

 

Self-discovery happens on campus

rnorooouarrsro qumty.

GE1‘ INVOLVED. These students are becoming involved in a typical manner- talking to a professor.

College is a lot of things. It’s a time for fun, excitement,
independence, education, and preparing for a future ca-
reer. But it is also and most importantly a time for personal
growth and ﬁnding out who you are. Take a long look at
yourself, don’t be afraid to ﬁnd both strengths and faults,
and go about changing what you don’t like. It’s easy to
say, “just be yourself’ and not worry about bettering your-
self. I’m often guilty of this myself- and use it as an excuse
when I don’t feel like doing something I
should. But college is the time when you
get to decide who you will be— and what it
will mean to be you.

Be like Descartes and question every-
thing. Put all of your actions, attitudes,
and beliefs under scrutiny and make your own decisions
about what is right. From a very young age, we are all
instructed in how to act and what to believe. We go to our
parents’ church or synagogue, listen to their reactions to
politics and debates on T.V. ., and are confronted with the
views from their generation. They, naturally, underwent
the same process when they were growing up. When my
grandmother recently came to visit, I was surprised and
mildly irritated when she told me to have dinner ready
when my dad wanted it: because our schedules were not
as important as his. Times really have changed from the
days of the proper ﬁfties’ housewife, and rightly so! And
times should keep on changing. We live in a more politi-
cally correct and tolerant world and I am proud to be a part
of it. But we still have a ways to go, (our ﬁne institution
being no exception). For starters, let’s be politically correct
in our hearts- not our heads. Carefully picking what words
and titles to use tonot offend people is a step in the right
direction but is over—emphasized. Show kindness in your
actions— not words.
Keep up with politics and dare to have an opinion

S1'$'l‘RAVEl..C_OM

 

  
   

 
 

a %“:::»-“= aware
mam
swam
mm:

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNEF1NI.EY‘07

Letter to the Editor

Anderson mistaken in criticizing Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore

that goes against your parents or peers. Think about
things and decide where you really stand. If you be-
lieve something— ask yourself why. If it’s just because it
was what you were always taught and had taken at face
value, then perhaps its time to consider it more carefully
(or perhaps for the first time). While you’re at it- you

might even reﬂect on levels of drinking and partying. A‘

Hint: if you are failing one or more classes, you might
consider more work and less play in the every popular
(and admittedly catchy) “work hard
play hard” scenario.

Find what is important to you and
apply yourself in those areas. If you
wish W&L had more diversity, join the
MSA or Hillel; if you lament our reputation as being
intolerant of alternative lifestyles, join the GSA; and if
you want to give back to the community, help out with
the Nabors Service League. There are so many options
to get involved at our school but not enough people
take advantage of them. Don’t just leave it to someone
else- practice what you preach. Don’t accept things
that are wrong. Make them better, or else you have no
right to complain when they aren’t the way you would
like. I’m indifferent to the Spring Term issue, but I know
many people who are heatedly against its removal. Yet,

I hear that only an embarrassing few actually attended _

the student hearings. That says it all.

Nothing really important happens effortlessly. Too
often we choose the easy way out: always picking fun
over work, only making friends with people who are like
us, condoning things we know to be wrong, and believ-

ing things just because the idea of doubting them is too ,

unsettling. We are no angels. We all have to consciously
choose to do the right thing and craft ourselves into the
person we want to become.

oward of the Week

Today, we feature the Man in the Cloth Mask:

Michael Jackson

BY OPINIONS EDITOR CALEY ANDERSON

 

You have, of course, heard of Michael
Jackson’s latest venture into legal trouble, if not,
welcome back from that cave you’ve been in-
habiting. It’s the usual charge that J ackson,
during one of the more interesting nights at his
bizane Neverland Ranch in Santa Barbara, Cali-
fornia, made inappropriate sexual advances and
actions towards a minor.

This is, of course, not the ﬁrst time this has
happened, and it’s is all a part of Jackson’s de-
clining career. Throughout the 1990s, the once,
but not future King of Pop (“I hate pop music.”
-Michael J ackson) has seen his career spiral from
stardom and reverence for his musical skills into
disappointment at his latest album, “Invincible,”
and ﬁxation on his bizarre behavior, which we
can only speculate was a textbook case of some-
one who snapped under the spotlight of fame.

J ackson’s response has predictably been
(according to his lawyer) that the 12 year—old
boy and his family are nothing more than gold-
digging lawsuit abusers, and that the Santa Bar-
bara District Attomey’s oﬁice is a haven for
racism).

Now, don’t get me wrong, Michael Jack-
son has created some really great and enjoy-
able songs over the years. “Bad,” “Beat It,”
and"1‘hriller” areallapartofhis popular, roclcin’
oeuvre. I personally recall with fondness his
musical feud with MC Hammer (during which I
rooted for The Hammer, but I enjoyed MJ’s side
of it all the same). ,

But let there be absolutely no doubt about
my feelings on this matter- pedophilia is com-
pletely inexcusable under any circumstance.
This isn’t even a case of 17 year-old “jailbait”

pedophilia, this is a 12-year old boy, and it
seems to be a particular issue with Mr. Jack-
son. A more serious 1993 case was dropped
when the wimess refused to testify out of fear
of J ackson’s wrath. Jackson himself admits he
has a “speci ” relationship with children in
his recent interview with the news media. Al-
though he says it’s “non-sexual” and that it’s
“very sweet,” I have my doubts about that.

I’ll reserve my judgment on whether or
not Jackson is guilty until the court renders its
decision, but let’s talk about what Jackson has
done so far.

He has started a huge campaign in the
press through his lawyers to smear the accus-
ing child as greedy. You might recall that this is
the same thing he did to the alleged victim in
1993. Now, it’s easy enough to defame the
character of one accuser, but when several of
them start to come forward (Santa Barbara au-
thorities have 100 leads on other individuals
Jackson may have abused), I, at least, begin to
become suspicious.

And what’s this nonsense about racism?
Jackson blames a lot of things on racism- his
ﬂagging record sales, his criminal allegations,
and generally everything that is wrong with
his life. It’s just a strawman for him to attack hi
this case, a false scapegoat that really has noth-
ing to do with the issue at hand.

So, for maliciously atiacking the many chil-
dren who have accused him of molestation,
Jackson earns my vote as Coward of the Week
Unconstitutional judges are one thing, but I
hope you’re with me in coming down on this
alleged pedophile.

     

am; , 5 (E: :2!
new may On-tempos Raps

 

In your article, You claim in
your last paragraph that Justice
Moore “is a traitor to the ideals of
the Constitution.” This could not
be further from the truth. What Jus-
tice Moore is trying to do is chal-
lenge the prevailing Supreme Court
ruling on the establishment clause
and overturn it to what he and many
others feel is a more construction-

2-800~6:$3~:%8&‘9 1 wv:w.st:tta:rc-Lzcm

ist and constitutionally sound one.
First of all, theestablishment clause
was meant to prohibit the United

Tom James Company

Interviews?
Internship?
Special occasion?

Let us help you look and feel
your best!!

Custom and Ready Made Suits
and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all
accessories

Student Packages &
Giﬂ Certiﬁcates Available

States government from creating an
American church, a la England. Un-
fortunately it has now been twisted
to mean “separation of church and
state,” a phrase that comes from a
letter by Thomas Jefferson in the
A ,1800’s. However, Thomas Jefferson
did not aid in writing the Constitu-
tion, he was in France at the time,
his letter was written decades after

the Constitution came into effect,
and he was not advocating for this
policy, but merely pondering it.
Anyway, “separation of church
and state” was not what the
founders intended, we know this
based on notes from the Constitu-
tional Convention. In fact, certain
members were worried that the 1st
Amendment would be viewed that
way, but others assured that it was
impossible to misconstrue(ha!).
When the Constitution was com-
pleted, George Washington called for
a day of prayer and thanksgiving and
thanked God for the opportunity to
create the document. In fact, some
of the first acts of Congress were to
publish Bibles for the Northwest Ter-
ritories and to provide for a chap-
lain. Does this sound like the cre-
ators of the Constitution intended
for the document to be read as “sepa-

ration of church and state”? Even to-
day Congress is opened with prayer.
The Constitution makes it illegal for the
government to establish (or create) its
own religion and to prohibit the free ex-
ercise of religion. It does not prohibit
any semblance of religion existing any-
where in public life as the Courts these
days seem to preposterously rule. The
1st Amendment means freedom OF reli-
gion, not freedom FROM religion. This
perversion of the Constitution is what
Justice Moore is trying to call attention
to and correct.

On side notes:

—Your refusal to capitalize “God” shows
deference toward this atheistic view of
law.

-You said it is people like Justice Moore
that are “responsible for the degradation
of America into a [sic] apathetic voter
wasteland” however, isn’t he doing just

the opposite? He’s rallying those who
agree with him, and in AL it is a con-
siderable amount, to get out and vote
and ﬁght for what they believe in.
-You say that Justice Moore has “no
respect for the law’’ and that he vio-
lated the “separation of church and
state” interpretation by the Supreme
Court as if the law and the Supreme
Court’s interpretations of it are always
correct. Remember that the Court up-
held slavery, segregation, and Japa-
nese internment camps, among other
cases.

-Any angry Alabamians write in yet?
(ed. note- no, Alexa, but check the last
issue of the Trident to check out an
Alabamian’s response, and pick up
this coming Wednesday’s issue to see
my response to these criticisms in the
form of a letter to the editor

-Alexa Moutevelis

Get real-World sales, marketing
and management experience

Phi Business is currently looking for new staff

Call Paul Seifert at 458-4060 or
phi-business@wlu.edu

Contact Adam Wﬂliarns
for an appointment or
with questions

540-815-4557
AdamWﬂliarns@tomjarnesretaﬂ.com

 

637 Waddell St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

(540) 464-9042

Fax (540)464-6360

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
69 Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! 1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

SPORTSWEAR

 

 

  

J(}NHY1Al\D

. AssrrANrSi>onsEoi10R

FMAi;HY1ANo@wiiiE1)U

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

 

Generals earn first ODAC Victory after droppin

JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After dropping their first three de-
cisions, the W&L basketball team has
won two out of their past three games.
Last week, the Generals earned their ﬁrst
ODAC victory against Guilford on
Wednesday then dropped a tough non-
conference contest to Chowan on Sat-
urday.

In the Generals road victory
against Guilford (2-4, 0-1 ODAC), they

got off to a slow start and were down «

33-25 ‘heading into halftime. The Quak-
ers would extend their lead to as much
as ten points at 37-27, two minutes into
the second half but their good fortune
would end there. The Generals went on
a 16-3 run over the next eight minutes
and held a 43-40 lead with 9:26 remain-
ing. Guilford would trim the lead to 45-
43 with just under ﬁve minutes remain-
ing but it was close as they would get
as the Generals preserved their lead en
route to a 59-50 victory. Despite being
outrebounded 40-35, the Generals
stingy defense was clearly the differ-
ence in the game. The Generals allowed
just six second half ﬁeld goals and for
the game, held the Quakers to 29%
shooting from the ﬁeld, while shooting
47% themselves. Another key stat was
W&L’s foul shooting, going a perfect

12 for 12 in the second half. Individu- '

ally, sophomore swingman Phil Landes’
15 points and freshman guard Chris
Halkitis’ 14 points led the Generals. Se-

nior point guard Michael Denbow paced W&L on
both ends of the ﬂoor, contributing 6 assists and 5

steals.

In Saturday’s home loss, W&L let their third

straight victory slip through their fingertips. The
game was close throughout, with Chowan assum-

ing a 37-34 lead at halftime. However, the'Generals

got hot midway through the second half and went

on a 15-5 run, taking a 66-64 lead on a pair of Landes
free throws with 2:46 remaining. The Generals would
be shut out for the remainder of the day. On the
next possession, Chowan sunk a three-pointer, clos-

 

CODY GABBARD / RINGTUM PHI

BRING rr ON. Freshman forward Alex White takes on a Chowan defender in the tearn’s non—conference Saturday loss.

PAGE 5

g three

a

ing the game on an 8-0 run to down the
Generals 72-66. In the loss, W&L was
led by frshman guard Coleman Lyons ’
16 points. Halkitis chipped in 1 1 points
while sophomore forward David Will
added 10 points. Freshman forward
Alex White had a solid all-around game,
contributing 8 points and 8 rebounds.
The Generals were once again
outrebounded, 33-27. Their solid ﬁeld
goal defense in the Guilford game
eluded them as Chowan shot 52% to
their own 46%.

The Generals appear to have re-
bounded from their early season los-
ing streak that included a defeat to Di-
vision I Citadel. Clearly, much of those
woes can be attributed to unfamiliar-
ity, as there are a lot of new faces in the
Generals’ program. W&L is under the
direction of ﬁrst year head coach Adam
Hutchinson, an Amherst College gradu-
ate, who comes to Lexington from Case
Western Reserve University in Cleve-
land. In addition, the Generals lost their
top two scorers from last season and
the roster features only two juniors and
two seniors and six freshmen. The Gen-
erals will rely on senior captains
Denbow and forward Hamil Jones to
lead the underclassmen. Already, it ap-
pears that the younger guys are re-
sponding. So far this season, Halkitis
and Will are the Generals’ leading scor-
ers while as aforementioned, freshman
Landes, Lyons and White have all
turned out solid performances in recent
games. The Generals’ success this sea-

son will depend on how quickly these diaper dan-
dies can adjust to the college game. W&L returns
to ODAC action when they travel to Bridgewater in
their last contest before Christmas.

Swim teams compete in invitationals Over the weekend

Women place third in
Randolph-Macon invitational

ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The womens’ swim team
traveled to Randolph-Macon
where it placed third out of eight
teams in the two-day invita-
tional.

Placing ahead of the
women’s team were Marymount
with 423 points and Randolph-
Macon with 409 points. The
Generals finished with 375
points.

Helping Washington and
Lee in its third place ﬁnish was
sophomore Kristine Holda, who
came in second in the 100
freestyle with a time of 56.43.

Holda also came in second in the
200 freestyle with a time of
2:05.05.

Junior Laura Westerman
placed second in 200 IM at
2:27.84 and fourth in the 200 but-
terﬂy at 2:35.82.

In the 100 breaststroke, fresh-
man Abbie Sauter finished third
with atime of 1 : 16.46. SeniorEiin
Dougherty also contributed to
the Generals’ score with a time of
20:42.95 inthe 1650 freestyle, plac-
ing her at third in that race.

The women’s team now has
a record of 6-2, 3-0 in the ODAC.
They do not compete again until
January when they travel to
Randolph-Macon on the tenth.

Golf Etiquette
tip of the
week:

A relaxed grip
will always work
better than a
firm one on dis-
tance shots.

Men place ﬁfth in Franklin & Marshall invitational

W&L Sponrs RELEASE

The Washington and Lee
men’s swimming team finished in
fifth ‘place at the three-day
Franklin & Marshall Invitational,
concluded on Sunday in
Lancaster, Pa.

The Generals scored 793.5
team points, while invitational
champion Mary Washington
scored 1,632 team points. Spring-

ﬁeld (1,200) ﬁnished second over-
all, followed by Ithaca (1,142),
Gettysburg (958.5), W&L,
Franklin and Marshall (575.5),
McDaniel (340.5) and Saint
Mary’s (111).

Washington and Lee’s day-
three efforts were paced by se-
nior Eric Ritter (Birmingham, Ala]
Mountain Brook), who won the
200 Back with a national “B-cut”
time of 1:55.04. The victory

marked his third top—place finish
in the invitational. On day two
he won the 50 Free with a time of
21.64 and touched the wall ﬁrst
in the 100 Back with a national
“A-cut” time of 5 1.40.
Freshman Mike Ginder
(Jacksonville, Fla./Episcopal)
concluded the weekend with a
strong day-three performance.
Ginder finished second in the 100
Free with a time of 47.67 and com-

bined with Ritter, senior Drew
Catanese (Southampton, Mass./
Sufﬁeld Acadamey) -and junior
Chris~Colby (Ossining, N.Y./
Archbishop Stepinac) for a sec-
ond-place time of 3: 15.64 in the
400 Free Relay.

Washington and Lee returns
to action on Saturday, January 3,
when the Generals travel to the
Florida Atlantic Invitational.
Meet time is 10:00 a.m.

GENE

RALS’

ATHLE

11C5

Phi-Sports

€323? §.*?i§§§ ‘fear?

323.521 Spits}: ‘E’-ears
i.$$§.<i£§.*?‘?3%
are°re,saas§§asi:tei2ra.a3am

 
 
 
 

 

 

Need a rest ﬁom
Holiday-itis?

Treat yourself to a
luxurious full body message by

Kelly Harris, BA, cm

Certiﬁed Massage Therapist
Board of Nursing C'eI'tifi'ed
13 Years Experience

Gift Certiﬁcates Make
Excellent Stocking Stuffers!

(540) 264-0063

Plirllfii

Gt.€:R§o”». i..awae.2»:aa Rmee.
§°£LaFf£3}}‘&LEX,<2b£E}Ei§€ triemw

309 N. lhjn St.

  
  

~ Lexington, VA 24450

Phi

Sports

guaranteed
or your money back"

Going  law school in  Prwam tor the LSAT

wim  here on campus at WAELII

classes begin on Fshmmy 23. 

Enroll   begin your
mum: at any ﬂaunt!



'13:? in Ea nagiarlmai madman: arms Lina  Muhim cuaaii.

 all =mqmat.1=a.!aa44ea or  aaaasims.
.e::vmuiet1e. all  teats.  {'39 ymar nomewmk;
at your more noaac-it  on  uasr'I'r<m your
einptm diagrmﬁc at a grim oflicial test score, you
ism erwoaa tn meant our anagram tar“ start or gait. it
31:53  at war tmIII:'Iim To ueeilglhle furmls affI.s.r.:
 ttssiéit be-311259386 in 3tariim"'s liﬁ classroom.
§:l:$§m’E31.3; osronilrna mama. 3‘! adilltiora, Ktuiznust
present an uéﬂeial  of yam mare remit and
autunit your rzamree nisteriata icttniri an  .

méﬁarioslons

KAPLAN

 

I-nan-use-1:31
kaptestcom,/law

 

    

PAGE 6

BY Knvr GUNST
STAFF WRHER

The women’s basketball

- team won both of their games last

week, defeating Emory & Henry
(60-55) on Wednesday and St.
Mary’s (73-54) on Saturday.

The Generals saw two play-
ers record double-doubles in
Wednesday’s game.

Freshman forward Jessica
Hunsinger led the team with a
game—high 17 points, a career-
high 16 rebounds and a program

_ record eight blocks.

Sophomore guard Louisa
Feve also recorded a double-
double with 13 points and 10 re-
bounds, while freshman guard
Sarah Otey rounded out the

Indoor track teams compete in VMI Invitational

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRIIER

The men’s and women’s in-
door track teams began their sea-
son by competing in the VMI
Keydet Invitational on Saturday
afternoon.

Strong performances by the

. _ freshmen look promising for the
women’s I

team. Sara
Behmerwohld placed second
among Division III competitors
in the 55—meter high hurdles with
a time of 9.78 and Kathryn

team’s double-digit scorers with
10 points.

Captain Bethany Darmelly is
very impressed with the team’s
hard work and strong perfor-
mances so far this season.

“With our win against
Emory and Henry and several
other close games, I think that we
all now believe that we can com-
pete with any teamintheODA ,”
Dannelly said about
Wednesday’s win. “I think that
the other ODAC teams will also
begin to realize that we are a much
stronger team than we have been
in the past.”

Senior forward Sarah
Michaels proved just that as she
ledgthe Generals to a victory in

Brennan tied for second in the
pole vault with a school-record
vault of 8.00’.

Junior Ann Tompkins, a new
addition to the women’s team, will
also be a strong competitor this
season. She placed second
among D111 athletes in the 200-
meter dash with a time of 29.54.

The women’s team is look-
ing forward to the rest of their
season. “Track is off to a great
start,” Captain Meredith Walker
said. “We have worked hard this
fall, and while we have a promis-
ing amount of individual talent,

Sﬁbﬁrs
-Womens’ basketball takes two straight

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

Saturday's game against St.
Mary’s. She scored a season-
high 26 points and grabbed a ca-
reer-high 16 rebounds.
Michaels scored six of her
points on a pair of three-pointers
that provoked a 12-2 W&L run
to close the first half, giving the
team a 34-25 halftime edge that
they would not surrender.
Michaels canned 5-of-8
three-point attempts and had
three assists. Sophomore guard
Louisa Feve scored a season-
high 20 points, grabbed seven
rebounds and had a team—high
ﬁve assists. Freshman forward
Jessica Hunsinger added 10
points and eight rebounds to
compliment Michaels’ and Feve’s

we are also beginning to come
together as a team. We have
plenty of time to work on techni-
cal improvements, but it was great
to see everyone supporting one
another at our ﬁrst meet.”

On the men’s side, sopho-
more Keith Sullivan led the way
by placing second among DIII
athletes in the triple jump (11.90
meters) and third in the long jump
(5.71 meters). Junior Lee Stirmett
also had a great start to the sea-
son. He ﬁnished ﬁfth among Di-
vision IH competitors in the 55-
meters (7.06) and 200—meters

efforts.

edly off to a great start this sea-
son. “We have played very com-
petitively in every game this sea-
son,” Dannelly said while dis-
cussing the team’s expectations
for the season.

team is very optimistic about our
potential for this season. Coach
King has done a great job of be-
basketball program.”

total from all of last season and

The women are undoubt-

“I think that everyone on the

ginning to rebuild the women’s
The team matched their win

are now 3-3 overall. The Gener-
als will return to action on Tues-
day as they host Southern Vir-
ginia for a 7:00 pm contest.

(25.66).

Head Running Coach Nate
Hoey foresees a great season for
the Generals this year. “I’m
happy with the way things turned
out,” he said after the meet on
Saturday. “We’re deﬁnitely look-
ing forward to getting ready for
Indoor ODACs. I think we’re go-
ing to turn some heads this
year.”

The men’s and women’s
track teams will return to action
on January 24 when they com-
pete in the Susqueharma Univer-
sity Invitational.

JUMP SHOT. A General shoots for two during the team’s 60-55 win over
Emory 85 Henry on Wednesday.

Tuesday, December 7

Wednesday, December 8

Thursday, December 9

THIS WEEK’s SCI-

Friday, December 10 i

* DULE

Saturday, December 11 — 1 Sunday, December 12

0 W Basketball vs.

0 M Basketball at

Southern Virginia--7:00 Bridgewater--7:00

0 Open

0 Open

0 Open 0 Open

 

The Johns Hopki
Premedical Progr

academic advisin

If you or someon

 
  
 

Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

For more informat n, visit
www.jhu.eduIpc$s 9 ac or call 410-516-7748.

7 records to
Is by giving

nt 0 become a doctor.”

 
   
     
 
  

 
 

gou know wants to pursue a
career as a doctor apply by March 1.

lity:

“I don’t have the
required courses
for medical school.”

 

IOHNS

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

HOPKINS

 

KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

Senior Kisha Barnes is no stranger to
working with minority issues. As one of the
founding members of the Washington and
Lee Chapter of the NAACP, the National As-
sociation for the Advancement of Colored
People, she has been actively involved with
many aspects of diversity on campus.

Originally from the D.C. area, she came
to W&L as a transfer student from Drew Uni-
versity in New Jersey on the good words of
her friend, Marinda Harrell. With a laugh,
Kisha says Marinda, “conned” her into com-
ing, but that she’s “very grateful to her” for
the experience. As an African-American fe-
male, she has always been interested in mi-
nority affairs. While at Drew University she
hoped to start an NAACP chapter there, but
left before she had the opportunity. When
she arrived in Lexington, she heard about a
failed attempt to start a chapter on campus
and, after speaking to then Dean of Minor-
ity Affairs Courtney Penn, she decided to
give the chapter another try. The W&L chap-
ter was started two years ago, and has been
actively working to sustain itself on campus
since then.

Nationally, the NAACP focuses on pri-
marily African-American issues, but also
works on many different minority issues. Ac-
cording to Kisha, nationally, they “do a bit
of lobbying, some protests, voter registra-
tions, focusing on youth empowerment, and
letter writing campaigns” though that is not
all that they do. On campus, the NAACP is
currently planning a Voter Registration Drive
to be held in January. They hope to work

McD0nalds names W&L
its featured business

BY KATHERINE SHELL

 ”‘8t LIFE

Senior Kisha Barnes devoted to bringing diversity to W&L

with Young Democrats to get people regis-
tered to vote in Virginia. Kisha explains, “I
don’t think politics is as important an issue
as it should be in Lexington, especially from
a minority point of view.” The W&L NAACP
is also planning to host a Night of Achieve-
ment at Rockbridge County High School to
recognize some students who might not be

otherwise recognized. They also have con-_

ducted a tutoring program with the Human
Rights Alliance.

Recently they have written a two sepa-
rate letters to President Burish expressing con-
cern over the lack of minorities in the admin-
istration and on staff. The second one in-
cluded a package from the NAACP entitled
“Call for Action” which asked for a plan from
the University for increasing its diversity and
creating a diverse curriculum. President Burish
sent them a letter explaining that because of
its location, it’s hard to recruit a diverse staff.
Kisha says they are now trying to “get at the
heart of the matter and that it might be a fail-
ure in active recruitment” that explains the lack
of diversity at W&L.

Being a leader of a minority group on cam-
pus hasn’t been easy for Kisha. Getting people
involved has been the biggest challenge. In
the future, she explains, “I hope to guarantee
that the NAACP will be in existence after I
leave and they are successful.” The NAACP
is open to all students, regardless of race.

When talking about diversity,’ Kisha
wants everyone to realize that black students
are not trying to separate themselves. “We’re
not trying to be social outcasts,” rather, she
believes “we need to start dispelling stereo-
types.” At W&L, Kisha said, “the environ-
ment forces us to fit into a box... We have to

MKEANMORGAN
ARlS&llFEEDl'l0R

mm m
MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

STEVEN MARINOS / Tl-lER1l\1O'E:.7'[J1l{P1"-H

get past stereotypes and the misconception
that minorities want to assimilate.”

Kisha would like to see a shift to recog-
nizing the value of diversity rather than try-
ing to force people to fit into a preconceived
perception. Part of this could be fostered by
all the minority groups working together and
working along with non-minorities. Kisha

SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee
has chosen McDonald’s
as the featured business
of the month for Decem-
ber. This entitles all stu-
dents and faculty to a
fifty percent discount at
the McDonald’s on 62
East Midland Trail from
now until December 315‘.

The discount is valid
during breakfast hours
Monday through Friday
from 6:30 AM until 10:30
AM and Saturday and
Sunday from 6:30 AM un-
til 11:00 AM. There are

especially large orders be
called in ahead of time at
540- 463- 3600. A W&L
I.D. is required to obtain
the discount.

The restaurant’s menu
offers a wide selection of
American food. Diners can
enjoy everything from ham-
burgers to chicken ﬁlet sand-
wiches. Breakfast, lunch
and dinner are served daily.

McDonald’s is not the
only restaurant offering
discounts to W&L stu-
dents and faculty. The
Arby’s at 512 East Nelson
Street is currently offer-
ing a twenty percent dis-
count to students and

holds high hopes for Washington and Lee’s
future, “I really believe we have the poten-
tial to welcome diversity... we just need to
break down social barriers and create an en-
vironment where we can talk and converse. I
don’t mean a utopian society, but a place
where we are at least comfortable to commu-
nicate.”

Campbell and Costa engaged to be married

Bemie Campbell, a member
of the Washington and Lee
class of 2005 recently got
engagned to to Sara Costa, Wil-
liam and Mary class of 2005.

Both Bernie and Sara hail
from New Hampshire, where
they attended Salem High

’ ’School"f6’ge’tliér. They have
been dating for three and one
half years. They began dating
during a high school musical
production, Brigadoon, where
Campbell was an actor and
Costa was a member of the tech-
nical crew. They were also were
members of the high school
quiz bowl team together.

Bernie is a history major at
W&L and plans to go into
teaching, and Sara is a Chemis-
try major at W&M and plans to
pursue a graduate degree be-

fore going into the research
field. The couple has not yet
set a date for the wedding, and
will not do so before gradua-
tion.

no regulations on how

much food can be bought University I.D.’s.- The

with the discount. Arby’s offer is valid all
McDonald’s ask that day.

faculty that have their

¢¢¢¢<l>¢<l>¢<i>¢4>¢<i>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢<l>¢¢<l>¢¢¢

Career Services armounces

Scholarship for
Professional
Development in Media

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie

in a" $500 tt d d’ nf .  ' 4 '

international society of peers. to a 6" a me la C0 creme

99.9th percentile: ' ' - - ,
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520, Applications due January 6, 2004 , .

 uaran ee

or your money back"

see complete list at:
wvvw.tr1'p|enine.org
Prepare for the April  MEAT
with Kapaan here an eampm at W&L”

Visit careerservices.wlu.edu
for more information

Submit
your
anonymous

University
Cleaners

classes begin Jeawary 10. 1034.
Enrnll   ﬂctaber 3131 and receive
THE CLEANEST or THE CLEAN. on-vllrw 36mm Ravi!-W FREE!
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING

LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Quick Hits

wuﬂdl4a:larhT;ostPra9

 EnPtnn

1-sen-use-rrsr
irapbaataom/ptnmed

‘Milt? in A  mmasmarm hneei&1 -ntamnixn

 all inquired classes or fl-‘lllm-[:81 sessions.
ezmplaiaa all twftedtﬁed transits, mrimysrrur 
at war were deeiaraft lmpram on was my firm Emir
Er;-apran aragmmrum a pillar’ ufﬁalal rm sum, years"
can crmeweetxs rsapazrt Eur panama: $are‘te'rmr was
$1.34!  5:? mgr traitiaa. Tc; in: -eilgllzle ‘tartar; afﬁar.
year must be errrmaad in ﬂamers“-3 ma claaemuim.
§.uturle.ra*., oer Mum mama in mrtltm. yciizmaat
girerumt an otileial  of _1yIc'3ia5" more  and
aoulwnlt mart mama rrrrabnriale ’airilt’rlr.'1 so 

Great Service   to
First—Rate Quality

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

 

 

PAGE 8

TrrElLil’

 

MBZANMORGAN
AEis&Iii=EEDrroR

l:‘MAiL-MoReuwii@rirJH1J

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

Date Economics at Washington and Lee — Importing is Best

A long time ago, before the first female stu-
dents matriculated in another Great Leap Forward
of university lore, importing was a way of life. From
Sweetbriar, Hollins, Randy—Mac Womens College,
Mary Baldwin, and of course, the dreaded South-
em—Sem, the girls would ﬂock to Lexington on the
weekends to get a little taste of the frat life and
accompany their favorite frat lord to wild date func-
tions. Fraternity boys would buy
their booze, get their bands, and the
ladies would just roll in.

Then girls came to W&L. No big
deal. Then came the sororities. Guess
it had to happen sometime, with such a Greek-ori-

 
 

ented place. And then, while no one was paying _

attention, the entire dating scene at W&L changed
completely when sororities began to dominate the
dating scene of this school.

At first glance, this doesn’t seem to make a lot
of sense. After all, isn’t it the fraternities that throw‘
the parties? Aren’t the date functions all fraternity
events? It’s the guys that ask out the girls, right?

Perhaps, but as every fraternity boy under-
stands, the sororities determine where the fraterni-

'P{E§6L"urI="EXfr6r“D"

ties stand in W&L life. Naturally, frat guys are as-
sessed partially on who they get fratty with, spe-
ciﬁcally the girls that can be found at their houses.
Would the Big Four (if such a thing exists) be so big
if they didn’t have hot sorority women ﬂock to them
in numbers? Would the “lesser” houses be less
sensitive if they could mix with the top—o-the—line
sisterhoods?

Certainly there will be critics re-
sponding with something like
“you’re overreacting Tim — sorori-
ties don’t make certain houses
cool and other houses less cool.”
Well why are fraternities compelled to mass-pro-
duce T—shirts that proclaim to the world that they
pimp sorority chicks like gods. You gotta just love
those “Mixer Shirts” — my favorites are the ones
that displayed to anyone with the power of sight
that a fraternity mixed with two sororities in the same
weekend. Did you guys want a prize, other than a
lame T—shirt, for being pirnp—daddies? Why else
would these shirts exist if not to broadcast that so-
rorities really do affect where fraternities stand here
on campus.

Thus, we’ve concluded that sororities do mat-
ter. Ifyou’re a frat boy, you’re in some way affected
by this weird sorority-fraterrrity dynamic. What
can you do? Maybe we should look back to our
past for the answer.

I’m fortunate to have friends in the various schools
close to Lexington. Anytime I’ve brought an “out-
sider’ ’ girl to frat functions, I’ve always been refreshed
by hanging out with someone who wasn’t already
molded by the Greek culture at W&L. Before I go fur-
ther, I should say that I’ve always been a big supporter
of our school and the way it is — for all the negative
idiosynchrocies we can ﬁnd in our Greek system, I’ve
never seen or learned of a better fraternity/sorority cul-
ture anywhere. But once you get into it, there’s no
getting out. It’s tough to be a student at W&L and not
see things inthe black and white of Greek life. I have to
believe that before sororities came to W&L, people
were less concerned about what house they belonged
to and who was better or worse, and were more worried
about which girl school girl they were going to try to
mack it with over the weekend.

Why not get back to that? Imported girls have
no concept of which houses are the supposed

“cool” houses. They’re just here to party. Through
the passing of legends, they know that W&L is a
marquee party school — they come for the fun, for
the magic. They certainly don’t come to hook up
with Joe Schmoe from Fraternity X because his house
is the downright coolest on earth.

I have no problem with sorority girls. I just
happen to know girls in sororities. I like pretty much
all of them. And they haven’t done anything wrong.
It’s all a product of our environment. By default,
W&L girls have been W&L-ized. It doesn’t make
them any less fun to have for date functions. But,
just once in a while, it’s fun to bring in someone
who’s not a part of the system. Someone who
doesn’t have all the Greek pretentiousness that we
can never seem to separate ourselves from. Some-
one who knows nothing about Lexington. Some-
one who just wants to have fun.

Those frat lords of the past didn’t have much
of a choice. Nowadays, we have our own ladies to
contend with. But think about all those poor souls
around the world who haven’t yet experienced a
W&L party. They deserve a chance. Import one
over — you may be pleasantly surprised.

    
    
 

Wa - ons
“D77 '~

uuwuu onda.com I

6
k-‘

riven: What do W&L undergrads drive?”

Data provided by University Security. Margin oferror +I- six percent.

uutumtoyota . co m

Golden Rule-family secret to success, act as

BY MARSHALL RULE
STAFF WRITER

Delayed ﬂights. Lost luggage. Missed connec-
tions. They are all a part of travel, especially during
the holiday season. Approximately 36 million people
traveled over Thanksgiving in order to be with ﬁiends
and family. With that many people ﬂying, there are
bound to be problems and inconveniences for ﬂiers.

All these inconveniences left many ﬂiers, includ-
ing myself, frustrated, annoyed, and angry. But is it

‘ - right to take out all of our anger on the attendant be-

hind the desk, or on the voice on the other end of the
phone? While sitting at the gate feeling sorry for
myself about my delayed ﬂight, I noticed countless
people yelling and threatening the attendant. I began
to feel sorry for the poor fellow behind the desk who
was getting blamed for all of the airlines problems.
People seemed to think it was his fault that the plane

didn’t pass inspection earlier in the morning. The
poor guy is a customer service representative, not a
mechanic.

Here, ladies and gentlemen, is a valuable lesson I
learned from my family many years ago. The lesson is
how to solve problems and get what you want by
acting like a true, yet slightly manipulative lady or
gentleman, whichever applies _to you. I was taught
that you can’t always get what you want by forcing
other people to help you. In order to get what you
want or need, you must operate delicately. This is my
family’s secret to success. By following these simple
instructions, you will not only be a step closer to get-
ting what you want, but you will also avoid looking
like a malevolent jerk. No one wants to look like a
malevolent jerk.

1. The first thing you must do is ﬁnd a customer
service agent of the opposite sex. You may have to
allow other people in line to go ahead of you in order

INFOGRAPHIC BY KATIE HOWELL / THE RING-TUM PHI

genuine manipulative gentleman

to accomplish this, but trust me, it is well worth it.

2. Learn these words: “I have a problem and I need
your help Practice these words until they roll off your
tongue. Guys, let’s be honest, when a girl says they
need our help we get all excited for the chance to be a
knight in shining armor to some little hottie. And girls,
you too get excited to be able to show some conceited,
egotistical pig that he needs women to make it through
the day. It also never hurts to throw in a couple of
compliments, such as, “Wow, you sure do strike that
keyboard with masculine authority.” (Note: guys do
not use that line on women. A woman would not ﬁnd
that that remark as complimentary as a man might).

It’s that simple folks. Acute face, some key words,
and a bit of manipulation. That’s all that stands be-
tween you and everything you ever wanted. After
seeing your puppy dog face, the airline worker, bank
teller or even police ofﬁcer may just go a little above and
beyond to help you out. Maybe even the cashier at a

grocery store just may spot you that extra quarter for
your six pack of Budweis-—I mean soda

When you are nice to people, they will be nice to
you. When you act like a sadistic madman, that’s ex-
actly what you are going to get in retum. It isn’t the
attendant’s fault that the plane’s girder on the rotary belt
is broke. Nor is it the cashier’s fault that you can’t aﬁord
a six pack

There is a saying that, ‘you can’t control what
happens to you, you can only control your reaction to
it.” So don’t be that guy standing at the counter yelling
and screaming that because of a cancelled ﬂight you are
going to miss “Friends” on NBC. Instead, put on that
sad desperate face, and work my family’s magic. After
all, there is a reason that I have been pulled over ﬁve
times and have never received a ticket. The knowledge
is yours now. Share it with your family and friends, but
not too many. We need to keep this family secret a little
bit quiet.

UIT

Q Despite all the money the school spent on air
conditioning to keep the classrooms frigid in the
summer, the penny-pinchers in Washington Hall
certainly aren’t wasting any money warming cam-
pus now that it’s winter.

 

Q Compared to all of the other houses, the Christ-
mas lights at SPE are a little lacking.

Q The best part of the Main Street parade was
the drunken elf running through it. Thanks, buddy.

Q The more educated a woman is, the less likely
it is that she’ll marry and have children.

Q Women smile more than men.

Q Fraternity men really ought to do a better job
telling dates what to wear at their events.

Q Wow! Wasn’t Traveller’s personal celebrity
sober driver the best idea to rock this campus in a
long time? Thanks to Dean Watkins for giving up
her time. Congrats to winner BJ Conrad.

Q Hey Sam Walton: not selling Hanukah
paraphanalia at Wal~Mart is discriminating.

Q Can anyone tell me what war the Salvation
Army fought in?

Q Three cheers to Right Food Red for playing
“Hava Nagila” at Lambda Chi this weekend. Way
to mix up the set list.

Q As I was jamming my fork into the toaster, my
friend said he didn’t think it was a good idea. So I
said, “Yeah? Well, I don’t think it’s a good idea to
be a loser, just like you!” He tried to say something
else, but I was laughing too hard to hear him.

Q I am being naughty for the rest of the year. I
would do anything for Cole in my stocking—- Cole
Boyle that is.

Q C—Money, quit feeding the geese before dinner.
Q Why are the italicized urnlauted U’s (U) com-

ing, who really cares. and why is something killing
trees to inform us?

Q Grendel has had an accident. So may you all!

Q If somebody ever calls you pretentious, a nice
comeback would be to say, “Pretentious!?! Moi?”
because you’d dispel the unwarranted accusation
and at the same time show your knowledge of French.

Q How many licks does it take to get to the cen-
ter of a Lalli Pop?

Q TFC: It’s almost 2004, you guys should start
looking at the newest Lexus SUV models.

Q If there is anyone interested in indexing 1700+
students, please e—mail the Calyx at
calyx@wlu.edu.

Q What will be declared “rights” next? Is there a .

human right to a comfortable bed, a car, free health
care, and a college education?

Q Please remember, in December, to giftwrap
your member.

Q If the police ever catch you stealing a rare dia-
mond, I bet a funny thing to say would be that
your dog had told you to do it. How would they
know what your dog said?

Q With all the effort to remove them from cam-
pus, you’d think dead leaves were the Brides of

Satan or something.

Q Is it just me, or are the Cadavers slacking?

Q When lifting a cow, even one only one—week—
old, always lift from the knees.

Q Throwing snowballs or any other missile at a
passing car is a felony.

Q The best lineup for the men’s basketball team
includes three freshmen and two sophomores.

Q It’s not a good idea to order Dornino’s pizza if
you plan to pass out before it arrives. It’s an espe-
cially bad idea if you pay with a credit card because
they still get the money and you don’t get any pizza.

Q Who took the time to attach bells to all of the
W&L Life condoms? Talk about a waste of Univer-
sity resources!

Q Snow hiking is a fun pasttime and should be
enjoyed as long as the snow lasts.

Q Snowﬂake, a rare albino gorilla, has died in the
Barcelona Zoo. We mourn her passing.

Q The Commons smells like a hamster cage.
Q The student who asked Dean Futrell to Christ-
mas Weekend would like her to know he is heart-

broken that she didn’t accept his invitation.

Q E—mail your anonymous Quick Hits and fun
stories from Christmas break to phi@wlu.edu.

x.-In

 

