|
|

$
i!

)

Che Rin

VOLUME 88, NO. 10

 

WASHINGTON ANDLEE UNIVERSITY

NOV 1 8

g-tuim

 

1988

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Phi

NOVEMBER 17, 1988

 

Thanksgiving is
around the corner

By Melinda Conkling
Staff Reporter

 

As exams begin to loom over W&L
and teachers start handing out tests
and term papers, it can only mean one
thing: Thanksgiving break. To many
students, Thanksgiving is 10 days to

‘work on term papers, but traditionally

’
'

‘
‘

‘

,

‘

it is a time for families to unite and
give thanks for all that they have.

Thanksgiving, one of two national
holidays, was proclaimed so by Wil-
liam Bradford in 1623, two years after
the historic first celebration with the
Indians in the Plymouth Colony. The
Pilgrims established this day to thank
God for the bountiful harvest He had
given them so they could survive an-
other winter. The Indians also partici-
pated in the festivities because they
had taught the pilgrims how to plant
and fish.

Thanksgiving is celebrated the
fourth Thursday in November and like
all holidays, Thanksgiving means
different things to different people.
‘*Thanksgiving is getting together
with all your relatives, eating, and
having a good time,’’ stated sopho-
more Cecily Tynan.

Amnesty

by Stacy Morrison
Staff Reporter

 

 

U-2, Sting and concerts were
among the replies W&L students
made when asked what they first
thought of upon hearing the words
‘*Amnesty International.’’

These reactions are because of the
widely publicized Amnesty Interna-
tional tours in 1986 and 1988 that
were produced to expand public
awareness of the human rights group.

The tours were widely successful in «+

achieving their goal. In the 1986-87
school year, the number of student
groups doubled from less than 200 to
nearly 500, and is still increasing.

W&L saw the formation of an Am-
nesty International chapter here last
year, largely through the efforts of a
single student. Many may remember
the all-day concert on the Colonnade
last spring that was sponsored by the
W&L Amnesty International chapter.
Once again, good music and good
times.

But to about 40 W&L students,

Different factions of the W&L
community celebrated Thanksgiving
this week. On Monday night, Evans
Dining Hall sponsored a Thanksgiving
dinner. They offered a special turkey
dinner complete with candlelight and
cloth napkins. Dorm counselors car-
ved the turkeys, which were accom-
panied by other traditional Thanksgiv-
ing favorites, like mashed potatoes,
peas, pumpkin pie, and apple cider.
‘*It was awesome, and just what the
school needed to promote a communal
Thanksgiving spirit,’’ summed up
Head Resident Assistant Esther Huff-
man.

To further promote the communal
Thanksgiving spirit, an informal
Thanksgiving service was held in Lee
Chapel on Tuesday night. Accompan-
ied by guitars, the participants sang
songs of thanks, and then opened the
program to the audience for them to
contribute what they were thankful
for. Answers ranged from friends at
W&L to thanks for the break, as well
as thanks for the opportunity to be
ourselves. ‘‘I’m thankful for the in-
credible beauty that God has given us
and the ability to perceive it,’’ stated
senior Elisabeth Fowler.

 

 

 

Turkey in the D-Hall

Senior Elizabeth Cummins serves her freshman at the annual

Photo by: Cheryl Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

Thanksgiving dinner at Evans Dining Hall.

celebrates human rights

Amnesty stands for much more than
good music. Amnesty stands for hu-
man rights work, helping release
prisoners of conscience and support-
ing the Universal Declaration of Hu-
man Rights.

W&L Amnesty International Coor-
dinator Eve Mullen explained that the
most effective action an Amnesty
chapter can take to further human
rights is to write ‘‘Urgent Action Let-
ters’’ for ‘‘prisoners of conscience.”’

According to Amnesty International
literature, prisoners of conscience are
people detained because of their be-
liefs, color, sex, ethnic origin, lan-
guage or religion who have not used
or advocated violence.”’

Amnesty International regional of-
fices supply each Amnesty chapter
with the names and addresses of
prisoners of conscience in need of
help. Then, each member of the chap-
ter writes an individual letter that
states who he is, what he is concerned
about and urges that the prisoner be
released or some other positive action
be taken.

The letters have had great success in

Faculty to review CRC
in January of 1990

By Stacy L. Morrison
Staff Reporter

 

The faculty voted not to accept
any of the student Executive Commit-
tee’s proposals for substitute forma-
tion of the Confidential Review
Committee, said President Christo-
pher deMovellan at the EC meeting
Monday night.

‘Basically, they decided they wan-
ted to let it ride for a year,’’ deMovel-
lan said. The faculty plans to review
the CRC in January 1990 after the
committee has been able to operate for
a full year, said deMovellan.

In other business, dogs will be al-
lowed to remain on the W&L campus
without any restraints, reported Junior
EC Rep. Jud Parker. ‘‘As it stands
now, dogs are not going to be bani-
shed,’’ Parker said.

Parker and freshman EC Rep. Clay-
ton Kennington spoke with Dean of
Students Lewis G. John last week
about dogs on the campus. The EC
had received a few complaints about
large dogs running loose on campus a

few weeks ago.

Parker reported that Dean John
spoke to the owners of some of the
dogs about the problem and felt that
no action was necessary right now.

The EC adopted the three White
Book revisions concerning the return
of transcripts of closed hearings that
the committee voted on last week. EC
by laws require that there be two votes
to revise the White Book.

The revisions state that all tran-
scripts of closed hearings given to
persons involved in an open honor
trial be returned to the EC after the
trial is concluded so the EC may des-
troy the transcripts.

Contact, the Field Hockey Club,
Mock Convention, the Ring-tum Phi,
the Rugby Club and the Soccer Club
all gave budget reports at the meeting.
The EC said that all these organiza-
tions are financially stable. The EC
voted $1,650 from the Mock Conven-
tion’s Sumners fund to its operating
budget.

Junior E.C. Rep. Chris Giblin was
given an excused absence, and Ken-
nington was late. The meeting lasted
approximately one hour.

 

 

 

 

 

File Photo

Dean of the College, John W. Elrod

moving political leaders to release
such prisoners, ind Amnesty Interna-
tional works on vehalf of almost 3,000
prisoners of conscience each year.

‘‘Letter writing puts international
pressure on governments who use
threats, imprisonment, torture and the
death penalty against their people. If
enough people write, the pressure is
enough to affect change,”” says a
booklet about Amnesty International.

Aside from urging the release of
prisoners of conscience, Amnesty
chapters support the Universal De-
claration of Human Rights that was
adopted by the United Nations Gen-
eral Assembly in December 1948.
This declaration contains 30 articles
that delineate the freedoms that are
‘*fundamental human rights, in the
dignity and worth of the human per-
son.””

The 30 articles range in tone from
Article 5: ‘*‘No one shall be subjected
to torture or to cruel, inhuman or de-
grading treatment or punishment,’” to
Article 24: ‘*Everyone has the right to
rest and leisure, including reasonable
limitation of working hours and

periodic holidays with pay.”’

To celebrate the 40th anniversary of
the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, Amnesty International chap-
ters signed petitions supporting the
declaration. The W&L Amnesty chap-
ter featured an animated version of the
declaration, in which top animators of
the world each did a 10-15-second clip
on one of the declaration’s articles.

The W&L Amnesty chapter also
will bring other activities to campus
soon. Mullen said after Christmas the
W&L chapter will sponsor an ‘‘AI
Week.’’ During that week, AI will
have speakers and information tables
on campus. These activities are ‘‘just
to try and get our name out,’’ Mullen
said at a recent Amnesty meeting.

W&L’s Amnesty chapter meets
twice a month to organize its activities
and, as always, to write Urgent Action
Letters.

‘If you belong to Amnesty Interna-
tional, you come to the meetings when
you can and write letters. That’s all it
takes,’’ said Mullen. ‘‘It’s a pretty
good way to spend a half hour of your
time every other week.”

 

 

Photo by: Chery! Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

More construction...

The river of mud grows as construction begins on the new Lenfest

Performing Arts Center.

indecision booked

By Christie Champlin
Staff Reporter

One of the bands has been announ-
ced for the Eleventh Washington &
Lee University Superdance, the an-
nual fund-raising event to benefit the
Muscular Dystrophy Association.
Superdance will take place the week-
end of February 3-4.

Indecision has been booked to play
Saturday night and negotiations are in
progress for another Saturday night
band. There will be a ‘‘Battle of the
Bands’’ competition on Friday night
and the winner will open for the bands
on Saturday. All of the slots for the
‘*Battle of the Bands’’ have not been
filled, so anyone with a band who
would like to play can contact Harry
Murphy or Allen Richardson for more
information, according to Fontanne
Bostic, the advisor of the dance and
Administrative Assistant of University
Services.

After last year’s Superdance the tote
board showed total donations for the
Muscular Dystrophy Association in
excess of $24,000 and committee
members are working to match that
total. This yeat the Superdance Com-
mittee is co-chaired by seniors Debi
Hurtt and Wright Ledbetter, with jun-
ior David Allen working as the vice-
chair.

The format of Superdance will
differ greatly from last year. Last year
the dance was a 15-hour marathon.
This year, the event will be a 15-hour
Superdance. The difference comes
with the breaking of the time into two
periods - half on Friday night and half
on Saturday night. The chairmen be-
lieve this will provide ‘‘an attractive
environment so that the W&L com-

for Superdance

munity and surrounding schoois cau
have a good time for a good cause,”’
said Ledbetter.

The change was made to attract
more dancers and spectators. ‘*We are
hoping for more dancers, because
they will not be committed during the
day on Saturday, and more spectators
because people come out at night for
entertainment,’’ said Bostic. Tickets
for weekend admission to all events
will be sold.

Dancer participation is vital to the
success of Superdance. The minimum
amount of pledges required to qualify
as a dancer is $100 for a single, or
$125 for a dancer and a date. This sum
must be collected in cash and/or
checks. Any pledges over the base
amount that are less than five dollars
must also be collected in cash or
checks.

The money donated by Superdance
to MDA is used for research and
patient services, which include wheel-
chairs, crutches, clinics, and camps.
“‘It is important that this year we take
a new look at Superdance and see it as
an opportunity to do something for
others and have a good time while do-
ing it,’’ said Ledbetter.

The grand prize will be awarded to
the person who brings in the largest
total with a combination of cash and
pledges. This prize has not been
determined, but a four day trip to Fort
Lauderdale is being investigated. The
second place prize will be a weekend
trip. A weekend trip will also be given
to the person who raises the most cash
donations. Donations raised by a cou-
ple will be divided and half will be al-
located to each member. Weekend
trips to the Williamsburg Hilton and
the Greenbriar have been finalized.

Visitor parking extends
parking problems

 

by Banks Ladd
Staff Reporter .

 

Last week, to the chagrin of many
students, three parking spaces in the
parking area known as the ‘‘corral’’
were designated for visitor parking
only. These three spaces are located at
the immediate right after one passes
through the War Memorial into the
Corral and are clearly marked. Ac-
cording to security officers, students
with registered cars will be ticketed if
caught parking in these spaces during
chapel hours.

When asked why these spaces were
designated for visitor parking, Assis-
tant to the President Frank Parsons
replied that the university has a re-
sponsibility to provide parking for Lee
Chapel. Lee Chapel has been declared
an historical landmark by the Com-
monwealth of Virginia and money for
the chapel and visitor parking has
been donated by various historical or-
ganizations. He also noted that the
parking area in the corral nearest Lee
Chapel has been marked for visitor
parking on the ‘‘Washington and Lee

University Parking Map,’’ but W&L
upperclassmen have been allowed to
park there because of the growing
parking problem that exists.

The reason for the recent designa-
tion of these spaces for visitors arises
from an incident that occurred earlier
this fall concerning a Lee Chapel
guest’s car that was towed for not
having a student parking sticker. The
security officers were not aware that
the car belonged to a /isitor and as-
sumed that the owner was in violation
of student parking regulations. De-
spite the efforts to accommodate visi-
tors, unmarked cars including those of
female fraternity guests and students
who failed to register their vehicles
may be the true beneficiaries of the
effort to provide visitor parking for
Lee Chapel guests.

On the subject of parking, Parsons
added that measures are being taken to
alleviate student parking problems.
Upon the advice of Phi Kappa Sigma
Fraternity members, the university
has recently leased the parking lot be-
tween Phi Kap and University
Cleaners to be used for upperclass
student parking.

Student Car Tax

City could raise up to $250,000

 

By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The high amount of tax-exempt
property in Lexington and the city’s
no-annexation agreement with Rock-
bridge County are the main reasons
behind the city’s move to consider a
tax on vehicles owned by local stu-
dents, according to City Manager
Joseph King.

Speaking to a journalism class
Tuesday at Washington and Lee, King
said 60 percent of the land within Lex-
ington’s city limits is owned by tax-
exempt agencies, such as churches
and schools.

And King said that figure is not
likely to change anytime soon because
Lexington has a revenue-sharing plan
with Rockbridge County that prohibits
any move by the city to extend its
cae

(\Please See Car Tax, page 4

W&L running smoothly Elrod says

 

by Heather M. Midkiff
Staff Reporter

 

Shortly after ithe Convocation to
the University, on Sept. 14, President
John D. Wilson took his first leave of
absence to Oxford University in order
to do some research. It was at that
time that the dean of the college, John

W. Elrod, stepped into the position
assigned to him by the board of
trustees as temporary president of
Washington and Lee University

Dean Elrod said he sees his position
of president as one of a *‘caretaker

my thought is to keep the university
yn a level keel.’ Dean Elrod
ishington and Lee

running

came to W Univer

sity during the summer of 1984. He is
a graduate of Presbyterian College
and a native of Griffin, Ga. He
received his master’s and doctorate at
Columbia University. He has, since
then, lectured on the philosophy of re
ligion at Union Theological Seminary
in New York City and was a professor
of philosophy at Iowa State Univer
sity. He came to W&L as a professor
of philosophy, vice president for aca-
demic affairs and dean of the college.
Dean Elrod said one reason for his
coming to W&L is the ‘‘opportunity
to work at a liberal arts college of high
distinction it iS an Opportunity to
work with a faculty and student body
of high quality.”’
Dean Elrod has not initiated any
new policies at the university during

the president’s leave. However, he
-urrently is the chairman of the steer-
ing committee.

‘The committee is engaged in a
long-range planning process of plan-
ning for the future of the university.
The committee will stay in existence
until December 1989,”’ he said.

Dean Elrod says that he has not ex-
perienced any unexpected difficulties
since President Wilson left. Further-
more, he has managed to accurately
divide his time so that his mornings
are spent in the office of the dean of
the college, while his afternoons are
spent in the president’s office.

He claims, however, ‘‘It has been

interesting to look at the university
from the point of the president's of-

fice; the president spends a lot more
time worrying about the university
than a dean does.’

He also mentioned that ‘‘a lot of the
administration has taken over addi-
tional responsibilities during the
president's absence."’

As for the students’ response to a
temporary transfer of power, Dean
Elrod said, ‘‘I think the students have
had a quiet fall. The university has
been on its best behavior; there ha-
ven’t been major problems or unex-
pected problems with the student
body. Everyone seems to be deter
mined to be on their best behavior
since their leader is gone.”’

President Wilson will return on the
the 15th of December.
   

Police Give
Their Side

In recent weeks, the Ring-Tum Phi editorial page has been very
critical of the Lexington Police Department. While I believe the an-
ti-police articles and cartoons were justified, I think our coverage of
the police department has been very lopsided. There are two sides
to every story and so far we have only shown one. I now seek to
correct this error.

Last week, I interviewed two policemen at the police department
— Sgt. A.M. Miller and Officer Jimmy Ruley. Both were obviously
dedicated to their work and sincerely concerned about problems be-
tween the community and the student body of W&L. I asked them
questions on the issues, which bring them the most criticism from
students — noise violations and speeding tickets.

I asked why the police give the fraternities in red square noise
violations when there are obviously no residential areas in the near
vicinity. Miller replied that while red square noise does not norma-
lly disturb residents, many of the other frats are in residential areas
and the police department constantly receives complaints from resi-
dents on loud nights. Since the police are forced to enforce the noise
ordinances for the fraternities in residential areas, to be fair they
also enforce them in non-residential areas.

Next I asked about the speeding tickets. The typical attitude on
campus in that Lexington is one big speed trap, the speed limits are
way too low and that the police prefer ticketing students over local
residents. Ruley answered that the speed limits are a product of the
narrow streets, which are very dangerous at fast speeds. Until the
streets are widened, the speed limits will remain fixed. Ruley added
that the main reason the streets haven’t been enlarged is to preserve
the historical significance of the university. Even before I asked
about tickets, Ruley assured me that when the police stop a car for
speeding, they stop it for speeding and only speeding. According to
him, the driver ofthe car makes absolutely no difference.

I also asked Sergeant Miller to give his opinions on the problems
between the community and the students. He seemed to feel that the
situation would improve if the students would start treating Lexing-
ton like they live here instead of a town they go to college in. He
added that the condescending attitude of students toward local resi-
dents has strained relations between the college and the community.
I agreed with Miller on this topic. I have frequently witnessed rude
behavior from students towards locals. On a positive note, Ruley
added that things have improved a lot in the last few years, especial-
ly with the fraternities.

I hope students will give serious consideration to the words of
these two policemen. I don’t think we give the police department
credit for providing one of the most important services in a city.
Police work is dangerous, demanding and usually thankless, but I
for one would not want to live in a city without the security of a
police department. In addition to the police officers I interviewed, I
also talked to Chief Beard. The department is open-minded and
willing to cooperate with the students. If you don’t believe me, go
to the department and talk to the police yourself. I know they will be
more than happy to discuss their policies and reasons behind them.

J.B.S.

The Ring-tum Phi Staff
extends wishes
for a safe and happy

Thanksgiving
to the
W&L community

OPINION

Here comes anollee
tou

— grou H Pp
y“ Sel horny $

 

# Dye ae

The Ring-tum Phi, November 17, 1988

of Colley < J

oD

2

 

ss vy de man ‘Ss dest breach but
it he Keds me ano fher ee Acs

Carpet cul] regret ’ 4

/

   

 

 

 

The Saga of a ‘Woods Geek’ Life

 

MY VIEW
By Courtney Payne

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi

NEWS STAFF
Tri-RQtels sscssccccscsvesccccccccccccsccccnccesnsoosooooosesccssesooesecessssecossens Elizabeth Parkins
Heidi Read
Nancy Whalen
Assignments Editors ..........cccssesseeserecessseeseeecnsssessssneseessnasaseeeeses Eleanor Neison

 

OPINION PAGE STAFF

Editorial Page Editor
Editorial Layout ...........cccccsssseeeseseeseeeenserereseseseesacennenanees

 

Cartoonist ......ccccccrcccsscsecrccccccrcsssccceccecseseessvesesssoncesoosose

BUSINESS STAFF

Business Manager .........sscssccssssssscccccesoorscceseseoscesssecesesssceescnces Christie Champlin
Assistant Business Manager ...........:000cssessseseesseeeeeeseeenneeseeseneeneneenenees Fred Turpin
Advertising Manager ...........sssscsssseessseseeseeeeenennarenenesessessenenseneeenenens Anne Dysart
Circulation Mamaget .........cssccsssssscssesssereresseeeensesensanannessensnensennenens Karl Haason

Washingten and Led University, Lexingtea, Virginia. Funding fer The Ringtmm Phi
eumes primarily from odvertishhy and from ao portion of tea stedent artivitive lee The
Publicaties: Beard shocts the chibal sditers sad tustaess managiy, bei The Aimgtee Fae
= otherwie independent.

Lotters te the Editor ant subaaidelene aust be tn The Rhag tan: POi allies, Ress 563 of
be Siedent Center, by $ p.m. Twenday of the week they are to be run. Ov send Gem ts The
Ringtem Phi, Bex 806, Lexington, VA 24456. This newepaper etverves current court
deftaitions of libel and shucendty.

 

 

 

My four roommates and I live in
‘*Woods Creek.’’ Now, don’t get me
wrong. There are some pluses to on-
campus housing; they just escape me
at the moment. The proximity-to-the-
hill advantage is ruled out by the fact
that we have to rappel up a manure-
scented mountain to get to class every
morning. Let me tell you the saga of
life in ‘Woods Geek ’”...

We should have known last year
that our apartment (affectionately
called ‘‘the hole’’) would be trouble.
We discovered in a trip to see our new
‘*home,’’ that the former inhabitants
had furnished the living/dining area
with a bed. The dining room table, of
course, was on the balcony.

We're still not sure what they had
done with the rest of the Brady Bunch-
style furniture that miraculously ap-
peared to grace our apartment this
year. Steam iron burns in the carpet

that leads down the hall to the bath-
room also remain unexplained.

Did I mention our ‘‘accent walls’’?
According to a buildings and grounds
representative, ‘Woods Geek’’ build-
ings were ‘‘engineered’’ in order
to have an accent wall in each room.
ENGINEERED? Can I just tell you
that we have pea green, burnt orange
and puke yellow ACCENT WALLS
in our apartment?

There are many other perks to life
in ‘*Woods Geek.’’ We currently have
six cats and one ‘possum living
in a bush in our front yard, two wolf-
hounds on the loose, a ‘‘peeping
Tom’’ law student in the next building
and neighbors who break windows at
three in the morning.

Four of our seven window shades
are PERMANENTLY drawn. The
plumbing hangs above our toilet in a
way that defies all laws of gravity, and
we have a stall and three sinks in our
bathroom. Our shower head threatens
to fly off the wall at any moment — it
is a favorite theory that our heat and
shower do not function at the same
time. We arrived in September to find
a year’s supply of toilet paper dumped
beside our front door.

‘‘What’s wrong with that?’’ you
might ask. Well, nothing until a
freshman guy decided it was the per-
fect place to throw up.

The smallest noise is audible in
EVERY corner of the apartment; we
have no secrets here. One bedroom
remains 10 degrees colder than the
rest of the apartment (mine, of
course). The B&G man mumbled
something about the room being ‘‘eng-
ineered’’ without a heat duct as I re-
call.

Our kitchen, however, really takes
the prize. We have blown the only
existing socket in our kitchen twice in
four weeks, simply because we used
our microwave and toaster oven at the
same time. I had to disengage my
roommate from the microwave as she
cried ‘‘This can’t happen! My life
DEPENDS on this microwave!!’’ We
steamed our veggies and made cheese
toast in the hall for two days.

Our regular oven cuts the heating
time of most standard ovens in thirds.
In other words, Mrs. Stouffer’s Fro-
zen French Bread Pizza cooks in
eleven minutes instead of 38. Our
freezer door does not close properly
because permanent life sculptures

form inside.

Because B&G has no mop, my
roommate scrubbed two years of crud
off the floor on her hands and knees
before Parent’s Weekend.

These apartments also have no gar-
bage disposal; therefore the cats in the
front yard are treated to a steady diet
of fried chicken, chocolate chip coo-
kies and burnt pudding (thoughtfully
thrown over the balcony by a room-
mate). It’s a wonder she didn’t get
stung by one of the yellowjackets that
live out there.

But I feel safe here. We have a fire
extinguisher (that almost gave me a
concussion), a sprinkler system, and a
large red pull-down fire alarm in our
“living room.’’ We also have killer
wolfhounds patrolling the building. I
went down the stairs the other day to
discover a half-digested (dead) cat and
the culprit wolfhound. When I had
sufficiently »2covered enough to drag
a roommate down, I found other
‘Woods Geek’’ inhabitants, a Hefty
“‘body bag’’ with cat inside, and the
Subway delivery man holding his
nose. I love this place... and I promise
it’s all true.

Emancipate Man’s Best Friend

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

Due to a few problems caused by
unleashed dogs on campus, there has
been much talk by leash law advocates
of clamping down on dog freedom.
While the leash law advocates have
brought up some good points, they are
forgetting one important point. Un-
leashed dogs give Washington and
Lee its edge over other schools. If
dogs are restricted, the admissions of-
fice will be devastated. If it wasn’t for
dogs, I know I wouldn’t be here. I can
remember my visit to the campus in
my senior year of high school like it
was yesterday. I was thinking this:
This college is cold; it's four and a
half hours away from surfing; there
are more girls in auto mechanics class
back at high school; the classes look
hard and this honor code thing is over-
rated, i inal, wien cures if Ecan leave
my wallet in the library without
anyone stealing it? Why would I do
that anyway?

I was already thinking about getting
home so I could apply to the Univer-
sity of Florida when all of a sudden I
noticed there were unleashed dogs on
campus, generally in a state of pure
chaos. At that point, I knew W&L was
the school for me. One can only guess
how many students had this exact ex-
perience — probably thousands.

Another good thing about unleashed
dogs is it keeps people in class. I
mean, who would go to class if they
didn’t think there was a chance of a
dog stopping by to listen in on a lec-
ture (Note: Dogs prefer the philoso-
phy department).

Of course, there are more important
reasons for letting dogs roam free
other than admissions and academic
benefits. First of all, if dogs are lea-
shed, they can’t chase cats. And
everyone knows dogs have to chase
cats. Why? For one thing, it's tun. |

 

know some of the best years of my
dog's life have been spent in hot pur-
suit of terrified cats. Also, man’s best
friend has rights, too. My dog, a re-
cent law school graduate, is preparing
to go before the Supreme Court to ad-
vocate Amendment 44 (The Milk
Bone Bill), proposed by a Doberman
Pinscher from California. The
Amendment states: Congress shall
make no law abridging a Canine’s
freedom to roam free, dig through
garbage and chase cats and mail-
men.

Another reason dogs should be
guaranteed emancipation is their intel-
ligence. Next to dolphins and whales,
dogs are the smartest creatures on
earth. If you don’t believe this, con-
sider the recent Wall Street Journal ar-
ticle about Rex, the canine defendant
in a leash law arrest, who convinced
the jury to rule in his favor by balanc-
ing a dog biscuit on his nose. And then
there’s my dog who has a law degree
(I'm very proud of this) and watches
Lassie reruns with total comprehen-
sion.

The last reason for letting dogs run
free probably is more important than
Constitutional rights or intelligence.
Many of you might have noticed dogs
spend a lot of time sniffing grass,
barking at vacuum cleaners and dig-
ging holes, While those activities may
seem arbitrary, the truth is dogs have
a secret agenda. They are looking for
something very important. No one
knows exactly what, but researchers
agree that it's important. My confi-
dential sources tell me dogs are on the
brink of discovering a pollution-free
alternative to nuclear energy.

If this article has convinced you that
leashed dogs will destroy our campus
and maybe the universe, then I urge
you to do two things. First, join
PAAFD (People Advocating Anarchy
for Dogs), a for-profit organization
started by me right now (please send
me all your money, jewelry and kit-
chen appliances). Second, get psychia-
tric help immediately.

 

 

 

 

BY Doss.

D1 (14 wanr w oo
Yeu Fill itin)

PURSUING

 

READERS CHOICE THIS Weeks

OD It's AtowM ovT oF comTROLS (Again)

D IT's Aw per oF civic Dicosedlignce

WOAE EARLY fr Thanksgiving

—r TT Rear iS weT AN issv& WORTH

 

 
NEWS/OPINION

Let’s shape up!!!

 

by Heather Logan
Staff Reporter

 

“Uggh! I feel sooo fat! Wow! I am
s00o0 out of shape!’

Okay! so, what are you going to do
about it? Instead of patting your pro-
truding stomach and huffing and puff-
ing up four flights of stairs to a class
you've already overslept for, take
some time out and exercise. It will be

_ amazing how much better your pants

will fit when you can button the last
button and how much easier it will be

_ to make it on time over the last step if

you could just dedicate 30 minutes of

_ your day to some type of physical fit-

ness.

You do not have to be an athlete in
order to get any exercise. However,
as Coach Norman Lord says, ‘‘It is
important for you to enjoy doing the
things that will get you fit because,
that way, you will continue to do
them.”*

So, if you are prone to getting bored
with one activity, don’t just quit, find
something else that you like. Try do-
ing something different every day.

What to do? Well, believe it or not,
Lexington Va., is not devoid of things
to do in order to increase one’s physi-
cal fitness. Actually, there is a wide
variety of activities offered on and off
campus.

First, if you like to devise your own
workout, there are a multitude of faci-
lities available on campus that are eas-
ily accessible. The largest facility, the
Warner Center and Doremus Gym-
nasium, is open from 7 a.m to 10:30
p.m. This means that the basketball
courts, indoor track, racquetball
courts, squash courts and weight
room, which offers both universal
weight system and free weights, are
available between those hours except
for class and team times, which usua-
lly are (there are exceptions) between
11 a.m. and | p.m. and 4 to 6 p.m.

Since pools require lifeguards for
safety, their hours are restricted. The
lower level | pool (competitive pool,
25 yards) is open Monday-Friday 7 to
8 a.m. and noon-2 p.m.; Tuesday and
Thursday 7-8 p.m. and Saturday-
Sunday 4-5 p.m. The ‘‘old pool’’ on
level 3 is open Monday-Friday 5-6
p.m. Also, there is a Nautilus weight
room, including some free weights,
located in Gaines Hall across the street
from the gym, which is open to the
public from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. and to
faculty and Gaines residents between
8 and 9 a.m. and 10 and I1 p.m.

Besides these indoor facilities, the
tennis courts, upper and lower level,
and the track, which incidentally is
’ mile in circumference, also are
available for use at all times except
when occupied by sports teams. There
also are the Chessie and Woods Creek
trails, which not only make a good
jog, but also a scenic walk. And con-
trary to popular belief, the Chessie
Trail does not stop at the Water
Treatment Plant. For the avid nature
lover, it continues approximately 7-7
miles into Buena Vista.

Next, for the people who do not like
trying to find someone to play, run or
walk with, there are organized exer-
cise activities also available on and off
campus. Monday-Friday from 6 to 7
p.m., Anna Hampton, Debbie Hurt
and Catherine Boardman offer aerobic
workouts in the wrestling room. The
wrestling room is located behind the
basketball court in the Warner Center.
The workouts consist of 10 minutes of
warm up, 30 minutes of high impact
aerobics, and 20 minutes of floor
exercises. Fees are $10 a term and
new classes will begin winter term.

For adults and faculty, Lucinda Ran-
kin offers aerobics Monday, Wednes-
day and Friday from noon to | p.m.
Also on campus, the ROTC depart-
ment welcomes people to join them
for their physical training program
Monday, Wednesday and Friday from
7 to 8 a.m. The PT workout involves
stretching, conditioning (push-ups,
sit-ups) and aerobic exercise (circuits,
runs, sprints).

Moving to the off campus scene,
there are two dance studios, Halestone
Studio (463-744) and Lexington
School of Ballet (464-1620). Along
with these studios, the W&L PE de-
partment also is offering ballet and
modern dance classes for the first time
winter term. Another new opportunity
for W&L students is the Lexington
Fitness Center located on 16 E. Nel-
son St. above Hunter and Huntress.
The center offers aerobics, weight
training, and karate to people of all
skill levels. The membership fees are
$35 per month for three months or $30
per month for a year. For more infor-
mation, call 464-1-FIT.

If it’s a team activity you are inter-
ested in, then club sports might be the
solution. For information about the
club sports offered and to be offered,
contact the PE department. Another
alternative might be intramurals. This
year, along with the other intramural
sports normally provided, there also
are the Resident Halls Intramurals,
where people living in any type of
campus housing can participate. There
is a women’s club basketball team
forming from the Residents Hall In-
tramurals that meets every Monday
night. For more information about the
program or the club basketball team,
contact Mary Alice McMorrow.

Spanky’s
remodeled

By Holly Buffington
Staff Reporter

 

 

W&L students may have noticed
changes in Spanky’s main dining
room.

According to Jane Plogger, Span-
ky’s manager, the old paneling on the
main dining room walls was torn off
and a new concrete wall, was poured.
The ceiling was lowered, and a life-
size Spiderman was placed on it.

Plogger stressed that the wooden ta-
bles with various past and present stu-
dents’ names carved in them were left
as they are because of the sentimental
value attached to them by Spanky’s
customers.

Plogger said the changes were made
because Spanky’s wanted more of a
“‘party atmosphere.’’ Plogger feels
that the dining room is now ‘“‘much
prettier and brighter.’’

Spanky’s remodeling changes have
definitely helped business, drawing
‘“‘more older family types’’ to Span-
ky’s, according to Plogger, in addition
to their usual student customers.

Spanky’s own company construc-
tion workers were in charge of the
remodeling and spent approximately
$5,000. The remodeling, which took
two weeks, has been completed for
three weeks now.

Future remodeling plans for Span-
ky’s include the expansion of the bar
from six seats to one that will accom-
modate up to 40 customers. Plogger
predicts that this phase of the remodel-
ing will be completed by the first of

spring.

 

 

Interviews by
Chery! Barrett

 

 

and eat turkey.”’

 

 

Kristin Haring, Junior, Mans-
field, OH—‘‘Going home to Ohio to
watch the Ohio State—Michigan game

 
 

 

|w note of thanks.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 17, 1988

 

Photo by: Chery! Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

‘*A Night of Thanksgiving”’ held in Lee Chapel Tuesday featuring songs, prayers, and

Spaces available

Staff Report

Faculty and staff who park on Let-
cher Avenue are urged to park only
with their vehicles headed downhill
toward Jefferson Street. Letcher
Avenue, which is privately owned by
W&L and not a city street, provides
important access for visitors to our
own Admissions Office and to VMI's
grounds as well. While ‘‘wrong way”
parking is tolerated on many residen-
tial streets in Lexington, this practice
S hot permitted on most of Lexing-
on’s downtown streets, nor on Let-
cher Avenue. Drivers with ‘*A”’
stickers who park headed the wrong
way on Letcher will risk tickets that
carry a $25 fine.

A new small parking lot with a ca-
pacity of about 20 vehicles is now
available to students with ‘‘C’’ stick-
ers on their cars. The lot is located be-
tween Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity
house and University Cleaners on Jef-
ferson Street. Only ‘*C’’ stickers are
permitted in this new area between 8
a.m. and 6 p.m.; violators are subject
to the customary risk of ticketing,
fines and towing.

The Democrats just don’t learn

 

MY VIEW
By Ray Welder

 

The election held two weeks ago
was an election on liberalism, and lib-
eralism lost. Once again, the Ameri-
can people told the Democratic party,
“If you send us a liberal, we'll send
him home.’’ And once again, Ronald
Reagan’s assertion that the American
people didn’t leave the Democratic
party— the Democrats left the people
— is held true.

. At the polls two weeks ago, not only
was Michael Dukakis defeated, but his

ideas on governing were defeated as
well. The American people said no to
socialized medicine. They said no to
having the federal government force
individual employers to provide all
types of insurance to employees. They
said no to being easy on criminals with
weekend furloughs. They said no to
the infringement on the right to bear
arms. They said no to allowing ho-
mosexual couples to adopt children.
They said no to having the IRS auto-
matically dock workers’ paychecks if
the worker owes the government
money (something that banks can't
even do). In short, the American peo-
ple said no to a bigger, more intrusive
government.

The election for the 41st president

will go down in history as a contest be-
tween ideologies. George Bush was
correct when he told the American
people this fall that there were stark
differences for governing between
himself and his opponent. Inherent in
Dukakis’ vision for America is the be-
lief that there exists some special elite
out there who can make better de-
cisions for individuals than the indivi-

duals can make for themselves. Bush
disagrees. The president-elect be-
lieves strongly that individual citizens
CAN make the best decisions concern-
ing themselves, and don’t need some

imposing, know-it-all bureaucrat tell-
ing them how to do things.
The American people have spoken.

But will the Democrats listen? Recent
evidence suggests they don’t even
want to hear. In last Sunday's Wash-

ington Post, for example, the Demo-
crats began to make excuses that
dodge the real issue on why they lost.

Come on, the coffee is brewing; it is
time for the Democrats to wake up and
smell it. The Democrats have losi five
of the last six presidential elections.
Surely it is time for the Democratic

party to gain the gumption to stop
making excuses and ask themselves,
“Can something be wrong with our
message?’

If they don’t hurry, they just might
excuse themselves into oblivion.

 

To the Editors: :

The parking terrorists have struck again! Three
of the spaces in the corral, the lot most dear to all
students, have been stripped away. Three spaces
do not matter so much given the enormous park-
ing problem that we. face— the problem that the
university continues to ignore. But it does matter
that our rights continue to be blatantly disregar-

ded. They have given these parking spaces to visi-
tors who can park anywhere in the downtown
area’s ‘‘two-hour’’ parking zones. These zones
are not at all feasible for students. How many stu-
dents spend only two hours on the Hill at a time?
The corral is about the only lot in which students
can park all day.

Realistically, however, the problem is even
worse than it seems. A student living off-campus
scarcely has a chance at the corral because it stays
filled with the students’ cars who live in that area.
This is also true of the lot behind the gym.

This incident is a clear example of the univer-
sity’s misplaced priorities. In the administration’s
mind, the university’s image is more important
than the students’ happiness, and I don’t think that
the students will let this negligence go on forever.
This new development in the parking problem, the
ground-breaking of the fine arts center, and the at-
tempt to widen the diversity of the student body,
are all products of the image problem within the
university. It will be wonderful to have a new
theater on campus and it’s great that we are at-
tracting the ‘‘better students’’ that the university
wants to have, but the problems of the students
who are already at W&L should have precedence
over any other concern of the administration.
Otherwise, the Hill better prepare itself for an all-
out revolt with respect to parking. Threatening the
university’s self image in this way may be the only

LETTERS

way the students can get through to them.
DAVID ALLEN °90

To the Editors:
It has come to our attention, not for the first

‘time, that someone of below average intelligence

may be running this university. If recollection
serves us properly, the biggest controversy at the
opening of this school year concerned parking, or,
more accurately, lack thereof. The change of all
spaces on Washington Street to hour parking and a
new university policy of extremely limited park-
ing in ‘‘the corral,’’ coupled with the ever-
increasing student population at W&L, created the
classic problem of too many trying to fit into too
few, Now the administration has seen fit to take a

section of ‘‘the corral’’ that can normally accorm-
modate four or five cars and mark it for ‘‘ Visitor
Parking Only,’ specifically three visitors’ park-
ing only. What are these supposed wise men in
our administration thinking? Why are they aggra-
vating a situation that is already volatile? It seems
to us that the administration might take some of
the nine million plus dollars being spent on a
theater department that is hardly overpopulated
with students and spend that money on something
we could all use, more parking. In fact, there is
probably enough money in the university coffers
from the security department’s overzealous enfor-
cement of the ridiculous parking situation to
finance a multi-level parking complex. Finally, if
the university needs three parking complex. Final-
ly, if the university needs three parking places for
visitors, why not take them from the faculty lot
behind Graham-Lees Dorm and the C-school
where there are usually extra open parking
spaces. Besides, wouldn’t those spaces be more
convenient to visitors because of their proximity

 

   

 

 

iy
|
,
,

a

7

Bryan Patterson,

UVA or something.”

 

Sophomore,
Shreveport, LA—‘‘I'm going to

Mike Holton, Sophomore, In- Melissa Anemojanis, Senior,
dianapolis, IN—‘Playing a lot of Oakton, VA.—‘'I'm staying here in
basketball and chowing down at metro Lex.”” .
home.""

 

 

to our fine parking ticket subsidized university?
Please, something must be done to remedy this ri-
diculous situation. KARL HANSON °90
DUDLEY LEE ’89
ED GALLAGHER "90
LIZ SMITH °89
CATHY BOARDMAN ‘89
HUNTER WHITE '89
SCOTT WILLIAMS °89
CHRIS BRAND ‘89
KING MILLING ‘90
CHRIS GIBLIN '90
WESTON NEWTON ‘89
THOMPSON LYKES °91
ROB NEWTON ‘91
DAVID FENSTERM.A.CHER 91
PAUL BOYLE 9]
NELSON S. TEAGUE 90
LEE NORRIS °89
R. LANE LASTINGER °89
RUSSELL WILKEPSON 90

To the Editors:

I would like to take this opportunity to thank the
members of Alpha Phi Omega and the Newman
Club for their efforts last Friday evening in col-
lecting food for the Community Share Project in
Buena Vista. Over $150 worth of canned and
boxed goods were received, as well as almost $60
in cash donations.

This food will be distributed in Thanksgiving
boxes later this month, and will go a long way
toward giving some of the poor and needy in our
community a lot to be thankful for. We are ail
grateful for the volunteers who helped make this
event so very successful.

WILLIAM DATZ
Catholic Campus Minister

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photos by
Betsy Parkins

 

Baillio, Vir-

Catherine
ginia Beach, VA—‘‘Going home to
spend time with my family and work
on hydrology.”’

Junior,

 

 
Page 4, The Ring-tum Phi, November 17, 1988

 

‘‘Alternate Futures for Africa’’
panel holds symposium at W&L

By Jon Ryan
Staff Reporter

 

A struggle for national unity amid
ethnic factionalism is what Africa can
expect in the future, according to
members of the ‘‘Alternate Futures
for Africa’’ symposium panel.

The symposium was held last
Thursday in Northen Auditorium. The
symposium panel was comprised of
W&L Professor of Politics Craig
McCaughrin, Grand Duke Mengesha
Seun of the Ethiopian royal house and
two former U.S. ambassadors to Afri-
can nations, Walter Carrington and
Frederick Hasdel.

According to Carrington, the strug-

gle of unity overwhelms any consider-
ations of ideology.

‘The prevailing ‘ism’ in Africa is
not capitalism or communism, but
nationalism,’” he said.

Carrington spoke on the fact that
Africa’s problems of unity stem from
the fact that European colonizers split
the continent up without regard to the
established kingdoms. The result is
present-day nations comprised of
several ethnic groups, with ethnic
rivalries.

Carrington said national leaders in
Africa have to create a sense of unity,
making nationalism the greatest force
for political stability on the continent.

Carrington gave the example of

Angola, whose ethnic groups split into
three parties fighting for control of the
government.

Hasdel said, ‘‘Unity is a precious
commodity at best.’’

According to Hasdel, part of Afri-
ca’s problems were caused by the
“‘battle-by-proxy’’ policies of the
United States and the Soviet Union, in
which the two superpowers support
factions of the appropriate ideology in
struggles for power inside nations.

Hasdel said he saw the U.S. posi-
tion as one of continuity for the next
few years.

**The new administration is likely to
be more of the same."’

Cans stack up to feed poor

by Becky Reynolds
Staff Reporter

 

Service organizations from Vir-
ginia Military Institute, Washington
and Lee and the W&L law school col-
lected $150 worth of food and $50 in
cash in a Thanksgiving food drive
held last Friday, according to Catholic
Campus Minister William C. ‘*Burr’’
Datz.

Newman Club, a service and prayer
organization of university students
from St. Patrick’s Catholic Church
and Alpha Phi Omega, a Washington

and Lee service fraternity, co-spon-
sored the food drive, which was -held
from 4 to 6 p.m. Friday, Nov. 10.

According to Datz, more than 20
students from VMI, W&L and the law
school were on hand at the Lexington
Market and Kroger in Lexington, and
the Quality Market and Food Lion in
Buena Vista to collect boxed and
canned food from shoppers.

Datz said, ‘‘People were tremen-
dously cooperative and the response
from the community was overwhelm-
ing. We were only there for two hours
and we collected a lot.”’

The food was donated to the Com-
munity Share Project in Buena Vista

and, according to Irma Thompson, di-
rector of the Community Share
Project, will be used in Thanksgiving
food baskets next week.

Thompson said, ‘‘We are very ap-
preciative that they (the service organ-
izations) had the food drive because it
will help us with the food baskets.
Without the donated food, we would
have to buy most of the food for the
baskets because we have not been get-
ting too many donations.”’

According to Thompson, 12 fami-
lies will receive food baskets from
Community Share for next week's
holiday.

 

Car tax

 

(continued from page 1)

‘*Because we're so small and have
no possibility of growing,’’ said King,
“the city is going to be looking for

opportunities like this for increased
revenue.””

King said Lexington could perhaps
raise as much as $250,000 annually
through a tax on student vehicles,
thanks to a 5.5 percent personal prop-
erty tax rate in Virginia.

The legal thinking behind a student

vehicle tax is spelled out in state law.
According to King, if a vehicle is
‘*primarily parked or garaged’’ any-
where in Virginia, then the local
government has the right to tax the
owner of it, regardless of whether the
owner is a state resident.

When asked how the tax would be
levied, King said VMI and W&L
would probably be asked to provide
the city with a list of students who
own cars.

And what if school officials refused
to turn over such a list?

‘| think it would be embarrassing
for them to refuse,’’ he said.

But, if schools refused to cooperate,

King said the city could take down li-
cense plates, identify owners and send
them bills.

“‘If it came down to that, I’m not
sure the university could block the
city,’” he said.

But according to W&L’s acting
president, John Elrod, the university
hasn’t even discussed the possibility
of a student vehicle tax with Lexing-
ton officials.

While W&L ‘‘does have a policy of
restricting the list of students,’’ Elrod
said that ‘‘whether we would make
such a list available to the city is a
question we have not addressed.’’

 

Call Time now

Time Magazine is searching
for college juniors who have dis-
tinguished themselves academi-
cally and in extracurricular activi-
ties. Time will select 20 winners
who will each receive $3,000, an
invitation to the awards dinner in
New York City, an all-expense
paid trip to New York City and a
day with the Time editorial staff.

More information may be ob-
tained by calling 1-800-523-5948
or contacting Dean Lewis John in
Payne 9. Deadline is Feb. 1, 1989.

|General Notes

New hours

There has been a change in the
library hours during Thanksgiving
break. The library will be open
from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Mon-

day through Wednesday, Nov.
21-23.

Peace time

Super Dance

An important Superdance meet-
ing will be at 7 p.m. tonight in
University Center 113. Attendance
is mandatory.

Tea time

The English Club will have two
meetings after Thanksgiving
break: Tuesday, Nov. 29, at 7
p.m. in Payne 21 for a discussion
of spring seminars, and Wednes-
day, Nov. 30, at 7 p.m. in Woods

 

 

 

 

night in Northen Auditorium.

Professor J. Holt Merchant delivers an address on his special-
ty, history of the U.S. around the Civil War, on Tuesday

Photo by: Cheryl Barrett/The Ring-tum Phi

 

Fort Lee weekend trained
cadets in marksmanship

._ by Robert Haley

Staff Reporter

 

More than 100 cadets from Wash-
ington and Lee and three other affi-
liated schools participated in the an-
nual fall Field Training Exercise
(FTX) at Fort Lee, Va. The purpose
of the exercise was to train third-year
cadets for the ROTC advanced camp
they will attend this summer, and to
expose freshman and sophomore par-
ticipants to Army tactis, training and
barracks life.

The cadets left their respective uni-
versities on Friday, Nov. 11, and ar-
rived at Fort Lee that night. There
they received their initial block of in-

structions from senior cadets on bar-'

racks life and basic Drill and Cere-
mony. The next morning, cadets con-
ducted physical training and indivi-
dual tactics. This training included
camouflage and individual movement
techniques, which included high
crawl, low crawl, 3-5-second rushes,
and a demanding obstacle course.

“‘Obstacle courses require team-
work, physical strength, and stamina,
and they also provide an exciting chal-
lenge,’’ said one cadet.

The afternoon activities included

squad movement techniques, crossing
danger areas, reaction to artillery fire,
and hand and arm signals. All of these
classes taught the cadets how to react,
survive and destroy the enemy in a
combat situation.

On Sunday, the cadets were intro-
duced to the M-16 rifle. Each cadet
learned Basic Rifle Marksmanship
and was permitted to fire on the Zero
Range in order to adjust the sights on
Field Fire Range, with multiple tar-
gets ranging from 50-300 meters.
Cadets received their scores after fir-
ing.

The weekend was fun and involved
for everyone. Captain Ramos, an offi-
cer from Washington and Lee, said,
‘*The freshmen and sophomores who
participated on the exercise area were
enthusiastic about the program and en-
joyed their weekend.”’

Those who participated learned
about many different facets of the
U.S. Army, as well as making friend-
ships with fellow squad and platoon
members. Lieutenant Colonel Snow,
professor of military science at Wash-
ington and Lee, deemed the weekend
a success, saying, ‘‘All cadets were
highly motivated during training and
this is what it takes to be a United
States Army officer.’’

 

 

Goods sell

fast at W&L
open auction

by Tina Vandersteel
Staff Reporter

 

 

More than $6,000 worth of de-
partmental furniture and relics were
sold this past weekend at an auction
held by University Services.

Fontanne Bostic, who works for
University Services, said that every-
thing was sold in three hours, starting
at 10 a.m., and she said the money
earned on each item was given back to
the department that donated it. She
said about 90 bidders showed up to 4
buy, and the auction went smoothly.

Bostic also said University services
is planning to hold other auctions
periodically to clear our storerooms
full of obsolete departmental furnish-
ings. She said that departments should
contact her office to reserve space in
storerooms for future auctions,

Other W&L staff who donated their
time Saturday morning for the auction
include: Charlie Conner, Agnes Gil-
more, David Weeks, Kenneth Swink,
Tony Muterspaw and William Moh-
ler.

Phi Eta adds
37 members
to honor roll

Staff Report

 

Thirty-seven Washington and Lee
University sophomores have been
elected to membership in Phi Eta
Sigma, the national honor society re-
cognizing academic excellence in the
freshman year.

The minimum requirement for
membership is a cumulative 3.5 grade
point average at the end of the fresh-
man year.

Those W&L students who were ini-
tiated into membership during the
ceremonies on Friday, November 4,
are:

Amy E. Aussiker of San Antonio,
Tex.; Alison K. Bell of Charlotte,
N.C.; John T. Buchanan of Sewickly,
Pa.; Lee O. Butterfield of Newport
News, Va.; Catharine A. Caldwell of
Birmingham, Ala.; Laurel E. Empie
of Goshen, N.Y.; Richard W. Feuring
of Wantagh, N.Y.; John Paul Foster
of Floral Park, N. Y.; William D. Got-
twals of Crownsville, Md.; Ann
Marie Gregory of Springfield, Va.;
Michael W. Holton of Indianapolis,
Ind.; Melissa Anne Jay of Houston,
Tex.; Jane Lee Joyce of Little Rock,
Ark.; Mary J. Kelley of Annandale,
Va.;

Bernadette M. Kempton of Harr-
isonburg, Va.; Paige C. Kilian of
Forest Hill, Md.; Paul V. Lagarde of
New Orleans, La.; Paul C. Lee of
Doraville, Ga.; Thomas C. Locke of
Maitland, Fla.; Patricia Lopes of Lex-
ington, Va.; Gregory L. Lyford of

Casper, Wyo.; Laura M. Lyman of
Gurnee, Ill.; Amy N. Miles of

: ; : Smyrna, Ga.; George C. Nomikos of
Super Bowl vem ugumviertatry nit Cask Wat 4 fra pe eng Richmond, Va, Hay T, Pete of
Critaque. Mount Airy, Md.; Tomas Luis Perez

For those wanting a Tuesday p.m. Monday, Nov. 28, and Inde- brief. SUBMIT TO ARIEL ry

of Harrisonburg, Va.; Paige P.
Powell of Virginia Beach, Va.;

Lydia J. E. Reid of Athens, W. Va.;
Amy C. Sapp of Cohutta, Ga.; Ingrid
M. Schroeder of New City, N.Y.;
Robert A. Shelton of Houston, Tex.;
Teri Leigh Snider of Buena Vista,
Va.; Bryant J. Spann of Atlanta, Ga.;
Cecily Joan Tynan of Somerset, Eng-
land; Krista Beth Vollack of South
Orange, N.J.; Lovell M. West of
Jacksonville, Fla.; Elise M. Whitaker
of Atlanta, Ga.; and Matthew J. Wise
of Roanoke, Va.

Gettier’s Gifts
CARDS, POSTERS & GIFTS

pendent Educational Services rep-
resentatives will be in University
Center 113 at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday,
Nov. 29.

More information is available in
the English Club newsletter from

the English Department secretary.

night break on Nov. 29, a Super-
dance Super Bow! will be from 9
p.m. to midnight at the Fast Lanes.
Rides can be arranged by calling
463-1104 or 464-1654.

University Literary Magazine
Poetry Fiction
Photography
Black and White artwork

Should be left
in Carol Caulkins’ office
by NOV. 30

 

New homes

Students may pick up housing
applications for the 1989-90 aca-
demic year in Payne 4 between
8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Students
are urged to sign up early.

 

 

ACTION §
ADVENTURE (/ “* "THRILLS

However you describe it The Survival Game is America's favorite new

out door pastime. It's capture-the-flag with a difference: each player :

carries a marking pistol that shoots paint-filled "Splat-Balls". To win

you must avoid your opponent's paint,while stealing theirflag and re-

turning it to your base. It’s a game of strategy, daring...and great fun.
For Information Call:

ULTIMATE CHALLENGE SURVIVAL GAME
804-372-4735

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Route 60 W. across from Keydet General
Plenty of Parking

Or Write:
P.O.Box 802

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

Country Fare {Inter _atcene|| COURTESY
COUNTRY CRAFTS & ANTIQUES With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

 

Take a Tuesday night break...
pate aie: es See DOUG TURRELL 87

SUPERDANCE y
SUPER BOWL

Tuesday, Nov. 29 9-12
FAST LANE

- 6 lanes for W&L Superdance -

Rides can be arranged - call 464-1917
463-1104

464-1654

KAREN A. NOELI
703/463-2088

4 E. WASHINGTON Sr.
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

 

Valley True Value Hardware

2019 Forest Ave.
Buena Vista

Office: 261-2112
Home: 463-1952

Thue Value

HARDWARE sToRES ©

 

For all of your automotive needs,

see me at COURTESY FORD

MERCURY in Buena vista.

Hardware, Paint & Related Items

E. Nelson Street Mon.-Sat. 8:30-6:00
463-2186 Sun. 1-5

 

 

 

 
SPORTS

 

Defense sparkles
in football victory

‘Streaking Generals end 5-3-1

 

‘*By Jim Lake
Staff Reporter

 

The bend-but-don't-break-defense
that has been the trademark of W&L
football for nearly a month compen-
sated for a slow-starting offense, and
junior quarterback Phillip Sampson
came back from early turnover trou-
bles to throw for over 200 yards and
lead the Generals (5-3-1) to a season-

,ending 17-13 win over Washington
University Saturday in St. Louis.

Like the game the week before
against Ursinus, this one was a mud-
bath — only worse.

“Tt was a sea of mud from sideline
to sideline,’’ said head coach Gary
Fallon. ‘I thought there would be

reven more turnovers than there
were.”’

But Sampson probably thought his

+three first-half turnovers— two fum-
bles and an interception — were more
“than enough. The W&L defense was
¢yet again called on to cover for the
offense— and the defense yet again re-
* sponded.
+ After the game opened with an
exchange of punts, the Sampson-led
*Generals drove to the Washington 1,
,where Sampson fumbled and the
Bears’ Ben Hess recovered. But the
»defense held, and Sampson and com-
,pany got another chance.

Starting at the WU 33, the Generals
‘moved the football to the 11, where a
Sampson pass was intercepted by the
Bears’ Rod Shelton. But the defense

‘eheld, and Sampson and company got
another chance.

Starting at the WU 44, the Generals
snoved the football to the 2, where ....
no, this time, they cashed in. Senior
‘halfback Tony Waskiewicz powered
,into the end zone and sophomore Car-
ter Quayle added the extra point that
‘gave the Generals a 7-0 lead with 6:44
Jeft in the half.

After a Bear fumble, a Sampson
‘fumble and a Bear punt, the Generals
fook over at their own 12 with 3:32
remaining. Backup QB Chris Smythe
tame in, and Fallon shifted to a
ground-based offense. Four straight
rushing plays — including two
10-yard-plus ‘carries’ by Smythe —
moved the football to the W&L 38.
But a false start penalty and an incom-
‘plete pass stalled the drive, and time
ran out after a 10-yard carry by Was-
kiewicz.

Wrestlers look to rebound a

Both teams did a better job of hold-
ing on to the football in the third quar-
ter, but only the Generals took advan-
tage. Sampson built a_ 10-play,
52-yard scoring drive with passes to
Craig Irons. The sophomore split end
pulled in five catches for 69 yards on
that drive alone (the Generals were hit
with two ten-yard penalties), includ-
ing a 13-yard catch that put W&L at
the Washington 2. Waskiewicz scored
a play later, and Quayle’s kick put the
Generals up by 14.

The fourth quarter saw the W&L
defense bend badly — but not break.
Washington scored less than a minute
into the period on a 22-yard pass from
Robert King to running back Pad
Boyle, and Jeff Chrusciel’s kick made
the score 14-7.

After a Tom Skeen punt, King was
intercepted by senior defensive end
Tony Onorato at the WU 12, and that
set up a 28-yard field goal by Quayle
that gave the Generals a 10-point lead
with ten minutes remaining.

The Bears would cut that lead to
four by driving 84 yards in 13 plays
and scoring on a 9-yard pass from
King to Bob Lavender. Washington
went for the two-point conversion in
an effort to set up a winning field goal,
but King’s pass was incomplete, and
the Bears would need a touchdown to
win.

W&L tried to run out the clock but
was forced to punt with :27 left.
Skeen’s kick sent Washington back to
it’s own 20, though, and, three plays
later, the clock ran out and W&L had
its first winning season in three years.

HASHMARKS— W&L finished
with wins in five of its last six games
and was 5-1-1 in its last seven. It was
the Generals’ first winning season
since 1985, when W&L was 7-2....
The Bears netted only 33 yards of
offense in the first half.... Junior line-
backer Mike Pack made nine tackles
Saturday; Skeen, W&L’s other start-
ing linebacker, had six stops.... Fal-
lon is 8-3 in season finales at W&L....
Quayle’s field goal was his tenth of

‘the season (he already Wns the school

record). Quayle finished the season
10-of-12 in field goal attempts and
perfect on 14 PATs.... Sampson com-
pleted 18 of 23 passes for 207 yards
against the Bears. Irons caught eight
passes for 108 yards, and Waskiewicz
caught five for 64 yards. ;

By Chris Baradel are contested each meet.

Staff Reporter

 

‘Head coach Gary Franke’s wres-
thing team enters the 1988-89 season
looking to improve upon last year’s
4-9 record, the first losing season at
Washington and Lee in nine years.
This will be an arduous task for the
Wrestlers, because as things stand now
the Generals will be going into each
meet having to forfeit the 118-pound
‘natch. There are only twelve wres-
tlers currently on the team, a small
number considering ten weight classes

9 Cooccccocoooooooooocce

BOWLING!!

THE FAST LANE

SNACK BAR

Pro Shop

BEER SERVED

Complete Menu

Satellite T.V. Over The Lanes!

Open Now!

12 Noon-Midnight Monday-Thursday
Saturday 9 a.m.-1 a.m.
Fridays Open Until 2 a.m.
Sunday Noon-Midnight
Ask about our 2 for 1 specials!

Nonetheless, the person who ranks
first on W&L’s all-time wrestling
coaches’ victory list is optimistic.
‘Certainly, on of our first goals will
be to rebound from the kind of season
we had last year,’’’ said Franke. ‘‘I
think we’re going to give our indivi-
dual wrestlers more of a thrust this
year, but I think the team as a whole is
looking to improve our dual-meet per-
formance, too.”’

The key for the Generals will be
their three seniors. ‘‘Our leader-
ship usually comes from our captains |

GAME ROOM

Leagues

 

Midnight Bowl Special
11:30-2 a.m. Fridays
Music and Prizes

 

 

 

© ©0808 9S6SECO93 96680396 ECO 3 3S ECCESOCE

Rt. 11 North on Left
1 Mile from Intersection of
Routes 11 and 64

464-2695
©0000 0080800808000 0008

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 17, 1988

 

 

 

File Photo

Senior Lee Brading’s passing, as well as scoring, will key W&L’s success.

Basketball tips off season Friday

 

By Jay Plotkin
Staff Reporter

 

Head coach Verne Canfield is entering his 25th season
as coach of the men’s basketball team here at Washington
and Lee. This year he has a special gleam in his eye when
he talks about his team.

“T like the kind of young men in the prograrfi this
year,’’ he said. ‘‘They are a joy to teach and to be
around. They have teachable attitudes and listen to in
struction. That doesn’t mean they do everything I say. |
expect mistakes from them. This is one of the best groups
of young men I’ve seen in my 25 years of coaching.”’

Why does Canfield expect mistakes from the 1988-89
edition of Generals’ basketball? One reason could be the
fact that of the 17 members of the team, 15 are either
freshmen or sophomores. The only two players who
don’t fall into this category are senior guard Lee Brading
and junior center Del Clark. Brading, a 6-3 Rex Chap-
man look-alike, didn’t play during his junior year but
started in 12 games as a sophomore. The team also re-
turns 10 lettermen.

With the preseason over and the season starting with
the W&L Tip-Off Tournament Friday night in the War
ner Center, Canfield said the team will try to generate its
scoring from the defense. ‘“We’ll use a multiple defense
system—several different sets and variations of them. We
want to score a lot from defense and free-throw situa
tions.””

Canfield said the team is also relying on the three-point
shot to provide most of the offense. ‘‘We’re going to
shoot the bejabbers out of the three-pointer. We have that
capability. We, have to realize though, that when they
aren’t falling, we have to-stop. shooting them. We also
have to hold on to the ball and work for a good shot. So
far we haven't shown that patience. ”’

The team can go nine or ten players deep without suf

fering a significant drop in talent. According to Canfield, .

there are five to seven players capable of scoring in
double figures with two freshmen lurking around the

of the gan
the game. It’s who’s in when the game in on the line that I

vo by

this team has

corner waiting to show what they can do. ‘*The ideal si-
tuation would be for our leading scorer to average 15 or

16 points a game, and the next guy to be around 13 or 14.

1 would like six players in or around double figures.””

And don’t assume that the five players that Canfield

starts will be the same five he has on the floor at the end

‘I’m not real concerned with who is starting

‘For instance. right now, in a tight situation, I would

want both [sophomore Jim] Casey and [sophomore Mi-
chael]Holton in the game [at the guard positions] along
with Brading. Right now, only one of the two, Casey or
Holton, will start because of what I’m trying to do with
our big men,” said Canfield.

As for who will shoulder the scoring burden, the lead-

ing returning scorer is 6-5 forward Ed Hart. The sopho-
more averaged 14 a game last season along with 6.5 re-
bounds. Brading also averaged in double figures at 10.3
his sophomore year. Look for he and Holton to have the
green light when it comes to the three- point shot. Holton
should provide a spark on defense as well. He led the
team in steals last year. Sophomore forward Chris Jacobs
will be a key player on the frontline. Jacobs came on
strong in the latter stages of last year, averaging 8.5
points a game for the season.

Canfield is the type of coach who doesn’t like to dwell

on weaknesses, but he said maturity is the one weakness

albeit a temporary one.

“When you get a team who accepts their roles, then
you've gota nucleus,”’ he said. ‘*We’re not there yet, but
we will be soon.”’

Canfield also thinks the Generals will make a serious
challenge for the Old Deminion Athletic Conference ti-
tle. “Il see a tremendotisly balanced league this year, but
{ think we can make a run for the championship. I am
very excited about the potential of this team.”’

The Generals play Gallaudet Friday night at 8 in the
Warner Center. The winner of that game will play the
winner of the 6 p.m. Marymount/N.C. Wesleyan game
in the championship on Saturday at 4 p.m.

 

 

seniors Manoli Loupassi and Mark
Robertson],’” said Franke. ‘‘[Senior]
Richard Redfoot didn’t wrestle last
year, but now he’s back. We expect a
lot from them.

Right now, the lineup begins at 126
pounds, with sophomore Larry Pil-
key, last year’s outstanding freshman
wrestler. Next comes junior Jonah
Glick 134; then junior Lee Garlove,
who was an Academic all-American
last year, at 142. Garlove had the most
wins (18) last year of any returning
General and got off to a good start this
year by placing third in the VMI

fter last year’s problems |

Tournament. Sophomore Bill Avery ts
at 150, and Peer Soderberg, the only
freshman starting, will wrestle 158.
Robertson wrestles 167 and Loupa
ssi goes at 177. Redfoot, a NCAA
Division TIT National Championship
participant, is slated for 190. Redfoot
won his weight class in the VMI
Tournament. Tim Place. a junior, will
take the heavyweight spot
one scheduled at this time for the

Phere is no

 

 

EP) fal
ge
fr;

|
Maa

1 Mili St
Stauntcn, Va
885-3409

 

-
om
ore rare one em

AM one me me

 

 

 

mmr) re OTD we
wn mre orp oy

 

 

 

 

 

lowest weight class, 118 pounds.
Sophomores Thompson Lykes and
Mark Monahan will be on the team as
will Robert Stallard, a treshiman
cians emai

Memorable Dining In Graciou
Accommodations With Superb S¢

Full Menu Including Lobster Tails,
Lamb, Veal, Italian Ana

Cajun Dishes

Featuring Raw Bar wit! Clarn:
Oysters, and Steamed Shrimp

Serving Dinner Nightly

Reservations suggested

 

 

    
       
 
   

© George
Hairstylist
136 Varner Lane

463-3975
Open Evenings y/ :

SS Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m. =
———__—=4

   

S —_—

 

 

prcmenssvenecy

audiotronics

VIRGINIA’S STEREO SPECIALIST

YAMAHA ALPINE
DENON BOSTON
B&O CWD

KEF SONANCE
SIGNET B&K
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SEAVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

GRAND PAVILION MALL
Across from Tanglewood
4235 Electric Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
SHOP FOR PAPPAGALLO
Ladies’

Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

Just In: Handmad

 

holiday

earrings from New York.

eer creseanmemeesene ene ne rme teen ne semen ree

23 N. Main St
(703) 463-5988

(0.

 

 

 

 

Sey |

From Staff Reports

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams
finished their 1988 seasons at the
NCAA Division III
South/Southeast Regionals in Se-
wanee, Tenn., with some of their
best individual performances of the
year.

While none of the Generals were
able to advance to nationals, senior
Bill Clark and freshman Charles
Edwards of the men’s team and
sophomores Paige Cason and Ce-
cily Tynan and freshman Jenny
Nasser of the women’s team turned
in admirable performances.

The men’s team finished ninth in
field featuring runners from 17
teams—-the biggest field in the his-
tory of the regional. W&L's Ed-
wards grabbed 30th place, while
senior co- captain Clark finished
33rd.

The W&L women took sixth
place in a field containing runners

’ from 13 teams. Cason came in
23rd overall with a time of 21:54,
while Tynan was close behind, fin-
ishing 25th overall in a time of
21:57. Freshman Nasser had her
best meet ever, finishing 36th with
a time of 23:42.

The Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference made its all-conference
selections in football, soccer and
women’s volleyball this week.

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

 

Water polo
finishes 8th
in the East

By Tom Wingfield
Staff Reporter

 

This past weekend's trip to Brown
University for the Eastern Champion-
ships did not go as Washington and
Lee’s water polo team had hoped. In
fact, it went very poorly for the Gen-
erals who lost all three of the games
they played. It was a bad ending to a
good season for the Generals, who fin-
ished eighth in the East with a 15-9 re-
cord.

The Generals opened the tourna-
ment against their nemesis, the Uni-
versity of Arkansas-Little Rock. The
Trojans had defeated W&L twice ear-
lier this year, including just a week
before in the Southern League Cham-
pionship game and were looking to
make it a hat trick against the Gen-
erals.

W&L kept the game close but came
up on the short end of a 16-12 score.
The Trojans proved to be a better team
as they out- muscled and out-played
the Generals. ‘‘We played well
against Arkansas but it was just not
quality Washington and Lee water
polo,’’ said head coach Page Remil-
lard. ‘By not beating them we came
up short of season-long goals.”’

After the opening round loss, the
Generals had to play consolation
games against Army and Harvard.
W&L could not rise to the occasion
after the loss to Arkansas, however,
losing to Army 12-5 and dropping
12-7 decision to Harvard. These los-
ses seemed to upset Remillard the
most.

“I was very disappointed in our
inability to bounce back after a serious
setback,’’ he said, ‘*Part of this was
due to our success for most of the
season but a good team must be able to
handle these setbacks. It will up to the
our underclassmen to learn from this
and to make sure it doesn’t happen
again.”’

Senior David Reavy was not pleased
with the weekend either. ‘‘We didn’t
play as a team and that really hurt us.
After the Arkansas game it was hard
to get motivated for the other two. It
was definitely a disappointing way to
end a four-year career.”’

The Generals will lose some of their
fire power when senior co-captains
Reavy and David Dietz graduate.
‘*Losing those two guys will hurt us,
but we will also lose Matt Brady and
Tom Rawls who both played very well
this year,’’ said Remillard.

For the football Generals, senior
linebacker Tom Skeen, senior de-
fensive end Jim Johnson, and
sophomore kicker Carter Quayle
were named to the all-conference
first team at their respective posi-
tions,

Named to the second team for
the Generals were senior offensive
linemen David Surface and Julian
Phillips, junior tight end Bob Mar-
tin, sophomore wide receiver
Craig Irons and junior defensive
backs Bobby Rimmer and Bland
Warren. Skeen was named to the
second team as a punter.

W&L head football coach Gary
Fallon received the top honor as he
was selected by his peers as ODAC
Coach-of-the-Year for leading his
team to a 5-3-1 record after an
0-2-1 start.

For the men’s soccer team,
senior back Steve ‘‘Sid’’ Udicious
and junior forward Patrick Brown
were both named to the conferen-
ce's first team. Senior Vanessa
Hartman garnered first team all-
ODAC honors in women's volley-
ball.

 

The W&L men's swim team
opened up its season last night with
an impressive 148-79 victory over
host VMI. The women's swim
team plays host to ODAC rivals
Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon
Woman's College, Sweet Briar and
Hollins this weekend in the W&L
Invitational.

 

 

eteceeeceeesoseorescecesseeee

 

WordPerfect 4.2 and 5.0
Ventura Desktop Publishing

Laser Printout from 5-1/4"" disks
SSCS CEOS ESEHOEESOSSEECCCES

OP OSSS OSES SEE SEOE ESTOS SESORSESESO SESE DOSES

TERM PAPERS, COVER LETTERS,
RESUMES

ONE DAY OR NEXT DAY SERVICE
KEPT ON FILE FOR FUTURE USE

WE BILL HOME
Deavers Alley Business Services

203 North Main Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (703) 463-9455

 

 

Catch all the winter sports
action in The Phi

 

 
 

 

~ nta;  °  "

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

One has to wonder at what point Hollywood will quit commercia-
lizing the Vietnam War. I mean it’s no secret that for years Holly-
wood has been notorious for taking a successful film idea and then
turning out dozens of bastardations to turn a profit by pulling in
viewers from the original success. After all, Gremlins (not an all
together pleasant film) did spurn such classics as Ghoulies and Crit-
terswhich, though it wasn’t that difficult a task, were far worse than
their predecessor.

Stull, I suppose if you examine film history, commercialization,
especially in the case of war, has been happening since the film in-
dustry exploded in the 1930s. As for war films, let’s face it- John
Wayne alone kept the WW II film industry in business. (It should be
noted, however, that many of the Duke’s war films are American
classics, unlike the mindless wastes of celluloid previously mention-
ted.

So, I guess the question at hand is how long will Hollywood con-
tinue to bring back the nightmarish memories of Vietnam that
America either never knew or tried to forget.? The answer is- as
long as there is a film idea and money to support it. As long as
Americans continue laying down $4, $5 and even $6 to watch Stal-
lone kill commies for cash and continue to support films likeDeath
before Dishonor, then producers will continue to back these worth-
less, insulting films.

\ wish that the industry would quit producing films about Viet-
nam that are nothing but insulting to the men who fought there. Our
veterans are real and they do see. They do absorb what is going on
around them. Many still think that America hates them for doing

Two weekends ago in Washington, I interviewed a homeless man
in Lafayette Park across from the White House who is a Vietnam
Veteran and who sleeps in and eats out of trashcans. Part of his
commentary to me was: ‘‘We came home and the government said
here, take this drug, take these valium and you'll feet better but,
how can they teach you how to love after you've killed so
long?... You can’t do it man. No one ever said coming home from
Vietnam would be easy, but no one said, hey, love you. They all
said, ‘you were wrong man, you were wrong...Hey, sorry about
what you did.’ Sorry’s too late.’’

If Hollywood is so concerned with presenting a quality film about
the effects of Vietnam and about what happened then it should do so
and quit turning out sequel after sequel of contrived garbage that
never and could never have happened. It’s absolutely abusurd and
infuriating. Stallone was in Sweden during Vietnam, I wonder
why? Oh, and how about another one- Springsteen singing ‘‘Born in
the U.S.A.”’ after dodging the draft. Where is the justice here?

Please do not get me wrong. I am not blasting every Vietnam film
that has ever been released. Many such as Platoon, Full Metal
Jacket, Hamburger Hill and the film I am reviewing today, Bat 2]
are excellent. But please let’s put an end to this sickening displays
of commercialization and make a serious statement about getting
quality films. Remember, the road begins at the studios, but it ends
at your wallet.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Winter Winds

The Messiaen: Quartet for the End of Time will perform at
W&L Monday, November 28.

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ®Perfumes
Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

 

UNIVERSITY PRINTING CENTER
Reid Hall

: Offering quality service, on-campus convenience, fast job retum,

   

and competitive pricing, we are here to meet your printing needs.

Programs
Bindery Services
463-9588

 

Maries Han Htylors

 

Old Main St. Mall
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

‘BACK PAGE

The Ring-tum Phi, November 17, 1988

 

Hackman
and Glover

excellent
in Bat 21

By Michael Tuggle
Entertainment Editor

Every now and then a film comes
along that sets itself apart from the
mainstream and makes a_ serious
statement. Every now and then direc-
tor, actor and cinematographer put
together a film that makes a difference
and says something new. Every now
and then a film is truly worthy of be-
ing seen and discussed. Bat 2/ is such
a film.

The film is the true story of
Col.Iceal Hambleton, an elestronic
specialist and high ranking colonel
who was shot down over Vietnam and
saw for the first time in his military
career just what combat was like. Us-
ing golf terminology to throw off the
Vietnamese (the Vietnamese had
never been introduced to golf) he dis-
closed his position to
Cap.Bartholomew Clark, callsign
‘‘Birddog,’’who tracked him in his
recon plane and helped him reach
“‘the clubhouse. ”’

As always, Gene Hackman and
Danny Glover are superb. As Hamble-
ton and Clark, they give the film the
emotion and believability it needs to
succeed. Unlike most Vietnam films
though, it has an inherent feel with
scene after scene for support that say
it doesn’t have to succeed, it just does.

There is one scene where Hackman
must kill a farmer and then another
where he meets a little Vietnamese
boy on a bridge where Hackman lets
the little boy pass unharmed. As
Hackman approaches a springed trap
at the end of the bridge, the Viet-
namese boy runs back and trips it for
him and saves his life. Hackman gives
the boy something and the boy in turn
gives Hackman his hat. It is in these
scenes that one can see the character
of Hambleton realize how futile and
terrible the Vietnam War really is.
Hambleton sees then for the first time
that the Vietnamese were people just
like us and that the war is nothing but
a waste.

Bat 21 starts off like just another
war film, but quickly turns into one of
the better films of the year. Enough
cannot be said for Hackman’s and
Glover’s performances. Hackman is
as good as he was in The French Con-
nection for which he won a Best Actor
oscar and gives probably his best per-
formance since then. Glover proves
again that he is the finest young black
actor working today. Anything of his
is good from his first film to this one.
Even Jerry Reed, (of Smokey and the
Bandit fame) who produced this film,
puts in a very solid performance as
Glover’s superior officer.

Put Bat 21] on your list of films to
see over Thanksgiving break. It’s an
excellent piece of work and thanks to
the incredible cinematography, a
beautiful film to watch.

Tug’s Tag - & & * 1/2

 

By Greg Ossi
Music Critic

Two new R.E.M. released

 

cord, by Warner Brothers.

before.

out is totally false.

 

R.E.M. fans have something to smile about this fall. The
band has two new releases out. Eponymous, a greatest hits
album, was released by I.R.S. and Green, their latest re-

The first single off of Green is ‘‘Orange Crush,"
terestingtune that has Michael Stipe telling us ‘
my spine, I’ve got my orange cruch.*’
ble, it will probably do well of the pop charts. But even if
the song is a musical success on the disgusting pop scene,
it will make some smile to see a tune written about an un-
fortunate Vietnam killer, Agent Orange, on the charts at
all. Yes, this album is more accessible than others pre-
viously released. Perhaps STipe and the rest of the band
realize this as the title of the first song is *‘Pop Song ‘89."’

The band’s sound is very tight throughout the entire re-
cord. Peter Buck still prefers a ringing guitar chord to a
blistering lead. Bill Berry and Mike Mills provide solid
rhythm but nothing exceptional. Stipe, however, as a lyri-
cist and singer has grown up. His voice is no longer muf-
fled at all and the lyrics are not as obtuse and difficult as

Immediately likea-

But as for all this talk of selling out, that’s undeniably
wrong. The band certainly changed since the release
ofChronic Town but they are still progressive. It is true
that their music crosses over into pop but to say they sold

The band has branched out incorporating mandolin

an in-
‘I’ve got

 

playing in ‘‘You Are the Everything.’’ The song starts out
with the sound of crickets recorded outside of their studio
in New York. Accompanied by organ, piano and mando-
lin, Stipe sings a haunting and catchy ballad.

On “‘Stand”’ Peter Buck does the unheard of and plays a
lead. Nothing blistering or inspiring but something that
fits well with the song and demonstrates that his playing
has moved up slightly.

 

 

Another unheard of occurs on this record as well;
R.E.M. printed the actual lyrics to the song ‘*World
Leader Pretend.’’ The song encompasses the band’s
world peace and understanding ideology. It is no coinci-
dence that this album was released on November 8 and it .
is true that Stipe was a volunteer for the Dukakis cam-
“| paign. The song is well-written, played and will have you
dancing and thinking at the the same time.

R.E.M. turns up the distortion for ‘‘Turn You Inside
Out”’ and it works. It rocks only the way an R.E.M. song
can. Then it’s back to the mandolin for ‘*The Wrong
, .| Child;’’ a song that one can only guess tells the story of a
child that cannot communicate with the rest of the world,
or is not allowed to. Another haunting tune that hooks in
4 the listener.

The album lists only ten songs but there is an eleventh
track that is unnamed. Several songs recorded did not
make the album and probably will be on the ‘‘B’’ sides of
singles released.

Just where does this album stand among the R.E.M.
albums? T’ll leave that to your preference. If you do de-
cide to fork over the ridiculous amount that record stores
charge for recordings you won’t be disappointed and
might even be pleased at what you hear.

 

 

Christmas tree program gets underway

The ‘‘Light Up a Life’’ Christmas
tree program is currently accepting
donations for bulbs to decorate the
tree on the Courthouse lawn in Lex-
ington.

The tree will be lit on December Ist
at 7:30 p.m. The program is spon-
sored by the Rockbridge Area Hos-
pice organization.

Lights can be purchased in honor or
memory of others for $10 to $100.
The donations help the organization
provide home care services for the dy-
ing and their families. Since Hospice
provides these services free of charge,
they rely on community members gifts

 

and donations.
Information may be obtained from
the Hospice office at 10 East Washing-

a

ton Street, or by calling 463-1848 be-

_ each weekday.

21 W. Washington Street 703-463-7174

Lexington, Virginia ne
e
A
W

Parents: We'll get your kids
home for the holidays.

 

Lori Rhodenizer
Campus Representative

 

 

Fine Cuisine
IVAN ATMOSPHERE SUPREME

“Over 50 years of quality food”
STEAKS ¢ SEA FOOD ¢ CHICKEN
GREEK @ ITALIAN SPECIALTIES
. 463. OUT SERVICE

463-3612 seen.
yar ke

Soya

 

 

Came ACCEPTOO 37S. Mame ia

You QUALIFY FOR
INSTANT CREDIT!

i :

i i

: :

3

B start making credit pur- J

I chases IMMEDIATELY! We §

§ will send you a Members r

: Credit Card at once with a

z NO CREDIT CHECK. Buy any :
i Jewelry, Clothing,Sport-

ing Goods,Watches, Elec- 5

B tronics & MORE! All with Bf

i installment payments out =

of our "Giant 100+ Pages §j

fl catalog." Take 12 months é

Jito repay. Your personal i

§ credit card is a -second i

g i.D.- valuable for check §

cashing, etc. plus your j

i Students Credit Group :
A-1 reference will be on

file to help you obtain A

So i

send in your $5 catalog é

i

i

i

i

i

i

;

'

:

i

i

:

other credit cards.
deposit now. (refundable
with your first order)

i

3

i

:

k

i Establish your creda Today!
100% § 4

: (or wank. ‘cageaes
i Same

i

i

i

i

t

CC ——————

Sure

 

MEMBERS. ?.0. Bor 4549

FORT LAUDERDALE,
FLORIDA 33338

Students

CAO Gaae

paycheck.

 

 

tween the hours of 10 a.m. and | p.m. *

 

Peace Corps
On-Campus Interviews

Mey,

  

    

Your first job after graduation should offer you more than just a
In science,
economics, industrial arts and other areas, Peace Corps volunteers
are putting their degrees to work where it's needed most while gaining
the experience of a lifetime:

education, agriculture, forestry, home

* Currently 34 graduate schools across the country reserve
scholarships and assistantships specifically for former
Peace Corps members. Many graduate schools offer
academic credit for Peace Corps service.

* Quality work experience recognized by employers.

* Non-competitive eligibility for U.S. Government jobs.

¢ Language skills.

* Postponement of educational loans.

* $5,400 completion-of-service allowance.

* Opportunity to travel and to experience new Cultures.

+ And much more. Contact your Placement Office for an
interview appointment today.

Speak with a recruiter at the Career Development and
Planning Office on November 29, sign up for a time slot

between 8am and 5pm.

See a film about Peace Corps Volunteers in the Career
Development and planning office on November 28 from

7—9 PM.

 

 
